
VOL. XXIV NO. 89 THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 6, 1992 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Presidential tickets hold debate before elections 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL News Writer 
The four tickets in this year's student body presidential race disagreed on the issue of open­ness in student government, but agreed on the need to take stronger action against crime during last night's student body presidential debate. 
Both the Greg Butrus/Molly O'Neill ticket and the Rich Dele­van/Joe Wilson ticket said they supported the closing of student government meetings to the public if sensitive matters are being discussed. 
"It's easier to get stuff off your chest if you don't have a cam­era behind your back," Delevan 
Future of former Soviet Union looks bright says Grazin 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 
Despite the recent political upheavals in the former Soviet Union, the future of the Commonwealth looks bright, said visiting Notre Dame law professor Igor Grazin. 
Grazin, a native of the Baltic state of Estonia. was present at last August's Soviet coup at­tempt. 
He said that the recently in­dependent Baltic states are richer in intellectual resources than their Russian counterpart. He said the states of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. tenta­tively named the said. 
The Dave Certo/Matt Bomberger ticket strongly op­posed closed meetings. 
"(On this campus), there is nothing so sensitive as to re.­quire closed meetings," said Bomberger." 
The George Smith/Mike Goodwin ticket also said they objected to closed meetings. 
"The only way for (students) to see if their proposals are be­ing enacted is to open the meetings to whomever wants to walk in," Smith said. 
On the crime issue, all four tickets presented proposals as to how to improve security in and around the Notre Dame 
see DEBATE I page 4 

Commonwealth of Independent States. were occupied by Russia in the 1940's. They have just recently begun to show their independence and abilities, he said. 
"They're very different states," he said. "Their lan­guages are different. Now that they've gained independence, they have the potential of being more developed than the rest of the Soviet Union." 
In addition, Grazin said that the world has long held myths about Soviet poverty, in partic­ular, food shortages. However, he said, these are greatly over­rated, as the soviet Union, especially these Baltic states, have ample grain supplies. 
"The main problem is not in wheat, but in corn and soy­beans, which are used primarily for animal feed," he said. 
Grazin added that the food shortage problems are largely a result of poorly organized and managed policies. 
"There is enough food in the Soviet Union, but it's all in the wrong places," he said. "It's misused." 
However, he said that finan­cial aid from the United States would be welcome, although the states need to become more self-reliant. 
"This is aid that has to be given once," he said. 


"Otherwise it's like drug addiction." 
The people could become complacent if they continually receive monetary aid from wealthier nations, according to Grazin. President Yeltsin of the Russian Republic is aware of this possible complacency. 
Grazin said that former Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev had tried to limit the rights of the people. Gorbechev had tried to cut the rights of free speech and press, and had been in a position to ban these rights. 
"He tried things against peo­ple and has always failed." he said. 
Grazin emphasized the way that Soviet citizens had suffered under the former political system. Changes are imminent, and since the emergence of the independence of the Baltic states, democracy has become a strong possibility for the commonwealth of states as a whole. 
"If you see pictures of Moscow streets, the people are proud people. They are not slaves. They just do not know democracy," said Grazin. "Let's not say that Russia is not ready for democracy. Every nation is ready for democracy." 

Plans made for 25th annual sophomore literary festival 
Special to The Observer has received the Dylan Thomas Award from Mademoiselle magazine and the Di Castagnola Award from the Poetry Society of America. Her collection "PM/AM: New and Selected Poems," was nominated for the National Book Award in 1982. 
She is currently a poet laure­ate of Maryland, and is on the staff of the Bread Loaf Writer's Conference in Vermont. 
Poet and translator C.K. Williams will read on February 
25. A 1988 winner of the National Book Critics Circle Award for his collection of po­etry, "Flesh and Blood," Williams also received the Morton Dauwen Zabel prize from the American Academy of Arts and Letters. 
Williams was born in Newark, New Jersey, and educated at Bucknell University and the University of Pennsylvania. He lives in Paris, but teaches a part of each semester at George Mason University in Vrrginia. 
He has published translations of Sophocles' "Women of Trachis," poems from Issa's "The Lark, The Thrush, The Starling," and "The Bacchae" of Euripedes. His six books of poetry are "Lies," "I Am the Bitter Name," "With Ignorance," "Tar," "Flesh and Blood," and "Poems 1963-83." 
Harold Brodkey will read on 
see FESTIVAL I page 8 
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Engineers should expand their horizons 
Having spent three and ------­a half years studying engineering at this school, I have one complaint. Engineering students spend too much time doing engineering. Most engineering programs 
allow their students to Jay Colucci 
take few, if any, electives Production 
outside of their Manager
department let alone________ 
outside of the college. I am not complaining 
about all of the tough classes we have to take 
but about all of classes we do not have the 
chance to take. 
Despite their best efforts to provide an ed­ucation, the College of Engineering more or less provides technical training for their students. This is fine to prepare students rfor careers in engineering at which they will surely excel. 
However, the purpose of this University is to educate. Students should grow into adults during their stay here. Anybody can teach a future engineer that power equals current times voltage. Arguably, it is only at a university like this one that these engineers have the opportunity to discuss philosophical ideas and explore historical trends. 
Having said this, I would like to offer a suggestion to the engineers who still have a few years left before they graduate. Try to take as many classes outside of engineering as you can. Some engineering professors suggest that students should use their electives to broaden their engineering base. These professors should not rob their students of what few chances they have to take non-technical courses. I have a difficult time believing that I will be less of an engineer if I take Middle Ages II instead of In­troduction to Robotics. 
Taking five or six engineering classes a semester often makes the possibility of taking an elective impossible. However, there are some ways to lighten up on the engineering courses. 
By getting a double major in five years, students can spread out their engineering courses over an extra two semesters. Also, they have more time to take courses that interest them outside of the College of Engineering. Unfortunately, the cost of an extra year o tuition is not acceptable for most students. 
Also, the University accepts credits for many engineering courses at other universities. Taking some courses over the summer provides more time in the fall and spring to take an extra theology or art studio course. 
An additional benefit of which I took ad­vantage and would recommend to everyone is taking part in one of the overseas programs. The University has a number of semester abroad programs in which five year students can participate and take some of the classes for their second major. Engineers who stay with the four year plan can participate in the College of Engineering summer school in London. This program allows students to take two engineering electives and to tour some major engineering facilities in England. It also opens up six credits for other courses back on campus. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff 
News Production Frank Rivera Kathy Fong Kelly Lynch Cheryl Moser 
Sports Business Rolando de Aguiar Paul Pearson 
Lab Tech Systems Jake Peters Fritz Valsaint 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Thursday, February 6, 1992
The Observer 


FORECAST: 

Partly sunny in the morning today becoming cloudy in the afternoon. High around 40. TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Amsterdam  53  37  
AUanta  71  48  
Bogota  66  39  
Boston  34  22  
Brussels  45  39  
Chicago  40  24  
Fargo  28  22  
Fairbanks  -o5  -18  
Great Falls  57  36  
Honolulu  74  66  
Houston  58  46  
Johannesburg  88  63  
Kansas City  42  20  
London  41  30  
Los Angeles  78  56  
Miami Beach  73  70  
Mpls-St. Paul  42  26  
New York  41  29  
Paris  52  43  
San Diego  76  53  
Sao Paulo  77  68  
South Bend  44  23  
Tokyo  50  39  
Warsaw  36  32  
Washlng1on, D.C.  57  32  

.·.::: H L ~ ~ rn ~ Ed ~ ~ 
:r::~ 
SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
.:: HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE 
···:: 
. ·:· -:::::::·· :::::::::. ':.. :: ·..:.:::·. :·::::·
.:··::::::::::: :::: 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Outbreak of violence at refugee camp 
•HONG KONG -Five people were injured today in the third outbreak of violence in as many days at a Vietnamese boat people camp where 21 people were burned to death earlier this week, police reported. A police statement said witnesses saw 10 Vietnamese prevent people from fleeing a hut that was set ablaze this afternoon, and that children were believed re­sponsible for the latest fire. Police also announced that 92 Vietnamese have been arrested in connection with violence at the Shek Kong detention center, which houses 8,900 boat people. Monday's riot was the worst violence in Hong Kong's crowded boat people camps. It occurred when 300 north and south Vietnamese battled each other with crudely made weapons despite at­tempts by police to disperse them with tear gas. The two groups dislike each other for ethnic and political reasons. 
Cholera epidemic reaches Argentina 
•BUENOS AIRES, Argentina -The cholera epidemic that has killed thousands in Peru and other Latin American nations has finally spread to Argentina, killing six, the Health Ministry said Wednesday. The victims lived in the northwest province of Salta, on the border with Bolivia, where an outbreak first was re­ported last year. President Carlos Menem closed the border with Bolivia, saying everything would be done to stop the spread of the disease. Three other Argentines were hospitalized with infections from the water-borne ailment, which causes massive dehydration. 
OF INTEREST 
•Reminder-interfaith 
retreat Informational meeting will take place tonight at 7 p.m. in the Campus Ministry conference room at Badin Hall. Students from all religious traditions are invited to attend. For addi­tional information call 239-5242. 

•Attention 
all students-anyone interested in running for class office must attend a meeting at tonight at 7:30 


p.m. in the Notre Dame Room in LaFortune Center. Please call Travis at 283-2032 if you have any questions. 
•ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club will meet tonight at Stepan Center from 8-9:3-p.m 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ February 5 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX A, 261,976,402 228.87 v 0.08 COMPOSITE 
413.84 {!> O.oi DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3257.60 .... 15.21 PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD -(} $0.60 to $355.60/oz. SILVER{} 2.5¢ to $4.198/oz. 

NATIONAL Driving hotline to be taken seriously 
•LOS ANGELES -The Southern California motoring public has told the Agriculture Department its drivers are careless, reckless and discourteous, according to "How Am I Driving" hotline logs. The drivers drive too fast or too slow. They tailgate, pass on the right, try to run you off the road, drive with one person in the car pool lane and make gestures usually seen on -well ­a Southern California freeway. They can also get flred. County officials take very seriously these complaints, which show just how deep passions run on Los Angeles' freeways. County officials said they plan to keep the program running at full speed, with bumper stickers on the department's 170 vehicles. E. Leon Spaugy, agriculture commissioner, said the program has made his drivers more conscientious. 
Bush's plan to cut heating aid harsh 
•MONTPELIER, Vt. -President Bush's proposal to slash the federal fuel assistance program by more than 40 percent sent shivers through Leonard Burbo, who uses the money to heat his mobile home. Burbo is among 22,000 families in Vermont who qualify for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance program, which was started shortly after the 1973 Arab oil embargo to help the poor, elderly and disabled. The program helps about 6.1 million households in the country, mainly by paying part of their heating bills. Small portions are also used to help cover air conditioning and insulating expenses. Bush, in his 1993 budget plan, proposed cutting the program 41 percent -from $1.1 billion this year to nearly $674 million. 
•The Paul and Barbara Henkels Lecture Series 
presents "For the Canon of the Western Tradition" at 8 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. This lecture will be given by Eva Brann, Dean of St. John's College. 
•watch an Iceberg Debate tonight! Debates are being held at dorms all over campus at 9 p.m. tonight. The topic is: Resolved that the University of Notre Dame administration has appropriately responded to the de­mands made by SUFR. A discussion will follow. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1895: Baseball legend Babe Ruth was born in Baltimore. 

•In 
1933: The 20th Amendment to the Constitution-the "lame duck" amendment-was declared in effect. 

• 
In 1959: The United States successfully test-fired for the first time a Titan intercontinental ballistic missile from Cape Canaveral. 

•In 
1986: The commission investigating the Challenger disaster opened its hearings into the cause of the space shuttle explosion that killed all seven crew members. 

• 
In 1986: The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed above the 1,600 level for the first time, ending the day at1 ,600.69. 




The Observer!Oavid Hungeling 

Financial aid forms available 
Freshman Sean Maurer picks up the 1992-93 FAF form. This form , due by February 28, is filled out by many college students who hope to receive financial aid from the United States Government. 
University receives $1.2 million in grants 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $1,210,719 in grants during December for the sup­port of research and various programs. The funds included: 

-$221,859 from the National Institutes of Health for research on blood coagulation protein­metal ion-lipid interactions by Francis Castellino, dean of the College of Science and Kleidner­Pezold professor of biochemistry. 
-$187,000 from the National Science Foundation for re­search on fast beam atomic physics by Stephen Lundeen, professor of physics. 

-$152,340 from the National Institutes of Health for research on glycolipid metabolism in normal and pathological tissues by Subhash Basu, professor of chemistry and biochemistry. 
-$132,000 from Chevron Oil Company for the development of reactors by Charles Kulpa Jr., professor of biological sciences and Robert Irvine, professor of civil engineering and director for the Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control. 

-$120,000 from the U.S. Navy for research of the XAFS study of semiconductor mi­crostructure studies by Bruce Bunker, associate professor of physics. 
-$94,485 from the National Institutes of Health for ovula­tion studies by Frederick Goetz Jr., professor of biological sciences. 
-$65,500 from the Amoco Chemical Research Center for research on fine acid degrada­tion in anaerobic biofilm by Charles Kulpa Jr., professor for biological sciences. 
-$44,484 from the U.S. Air Force for research on the theo­retical study of vortex break­down by Robert Nelson, associ­ate chairman of aerospace engineering and professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, and Eric Jumper, associate chairman and associ­ate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
-$43,000 from the American Chemical Society Petroleum Research Fund for research on clusters as substituents by Thomas Fehlner, Grace-Rupley professor of chemistry. 
-$40,000 from the Texas Engineering Experiment Station for research of wind effects on tension leg platforms by Ahsan Kareem, professor of civil engi­neering and geological sciences. 
-$38,060 from the U.S. Air Force for research on prelimi­nary design of flight of vehicle structures by Stephen Batill, di­
see GRANTS I page 8 


\':·· Ol"'\1;'-n 

________.,. ....___. ---·--_________-.,..._-...:.... 
page 3 
Rector removes posters 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL News Writer 
Following a tradition of con­troversy in the student body election campaigns, the rector of Alumni Hall revealed Wednesday that he removed campaign posters from the dorm's bulletin boards because they were "inappropriate." 
Alumni Rector Father George Roznum said he removed sev­eral posters that promoted the Rich Delevan/ Joe Wilson presi­dential campaign because they included a graphic depicting a condom package. 
"I thought (the condom graphic) was not consistent with the University's policy on sexuality," Roznum said. 
The posters in question out­lined the candidates' positions on security and safety issues. Delevan said the condom graphic was included in the posters because of the conno­tative link between "condoms" and "safety." 
"We thought (the condom graphic) was a good way to get our safety message across," Delevan said. 
The posters had been ap­proved for campus-wide posting by the Office of Student Ac­tivities. However, Student Ac­tivities Director Joe Cassidy said the stamp of approval is not final. 
"It would be purely up to the interpretation (of the rectors) as to whether the poster was appropriate or not appropri­ate," Cassidy said. 
Cassidy's statement angered Delevan, who said that "there's no point in having posters ap­proved (by Student Activities) in the first place" if the approval can be overruled by rectors. 
Delevan said he and Wilson would try to persuade Roznum to allow the posters to return. 
Roznum indicated that Dele­van/Wilson posters not contain­ing the condom graphic remain displayed. 
"(Delevan and Wilson) are still represented in the dorm," Roznum said. 
In other campaign news, elec­tions commissioner Travis Reindl said his office does not know who is responsible for the posting of signs that used tasteless language to exhort students to attend last night's student body debate. 
The posters, which read "screw you" in bold capital let­ters across the top, contained derogatory marks aimed at members of student govern­ment and campus media. They also bore a fraudulent Student Activities stamp of approval. 
Reindl denounced the leaflets as "immature and beneath the dignity of the people of this university." 
Monica Yant contributed to this report. 

SAB plans semester events 
By ERIN BROWN Newswriter 
The Saint Mary's Student Activities Board met last night to discuss plans for upcoming events throughout the spring semester. 
Mardi Gras festivities to be held at Saint Mary's on Feb. 27. A Mardi Gras dinner at the din­ing hall will precede the festivi­ties. 
The board is planning to charge a small admission fee to the event and will sell raffle tickets to give away prizes. The board also discussed having a fortune teller and a caricature artist present. 
The board also discussed plans for Dalloway's Coffeehouse such as an open microphone night, where stu­dents will be able to perform, a game night and a talent show. 
Other topics included in-hall video rentals, a poster sale and a murder-mystery night with student participation. 
The board is also planning some trips for the spring, in­cluding a trip to Chicago on April 22 for a Chicago White Sox game. 
In addition, the board re­viewed the budget for the up­coming semester. 

IllALUM~NI!::::;;;:::J 


~CLUB 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS 
& 
JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM UP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS FEBRUARY 21, 1992 

----------~------·---­
The Observer 

Thursday, February 6, 1992 

Russia to allow wide foreign investment in oil production 
PARIS (AP) -Russia intends to sell or lease half its oil pro­duction facilities and explo­ration rights to foreigners, said a Foreign Ministry official traveling with Russian President Boris Yeltsin on Wednesday. 
The opening to foreigners of Russia's vast oil fields could bring substantial changes to the worldwide oil market. Over the past decade, the Soviet Union was the world's largest oil producer. 
Also Wednesday, the first of Yeltsin's three days in France, the Russian president denied rumors that he has heart trou­ble and assured France that the nuclear arsenal of the former Soviet Union is secure. 
Vladislav Sorokin, chief of the Russian Foreign Ministry's economics department, said Russia is preparing laws to al­low foreign companies to ac­quire large blocks of shares in commercial bank charged with privatizing part of the petroleum industry. 
Yeltsin, in an interview with the French television network TF-1, denied that his occasional disappearances from public view are linked to heart trouble. 
"I've never said that, and I've never had heart problems. I'm very well." said Yeltsin, who said he would publish reports on his health every six months. 
Other news reports have sug­gested that Yeltsin had a drinking problem, which he has denied. 
Earlier, in 90-minute talks with President Francois Mitterrand, Yeltsin spelled out the command system over nu­clear weapons agreed upon by Russia and the other former Soviet republics, said Pierre Morel, a diplomatic adviser to Mitterrand. 

Debate 
continued from page 1 
campus. 

Delevan and Wilson said they hoped to organize a neighbor­hood watch program that would protect the residences of off­campus students. Butrus and O'Neill said they would lobby local bars to hire private security guards to insure the safety of student patrons. 
Smith and Goodwin vowed to press the administration for further support for Weekend Wheels as a means to prevent drunk driving. Certo and Bomberger promised to help implement the proposals made by the Off-Campus Crime Sub­committee. 
Responding to questions from the audience, O'Neill and Butrus defended the Hall Presi­dents' Council's (HPC) use of hall funds to provide dinner for HPC members. The two candi­dates, both members of HPC, said the use of such funds had been approved by individual hall councils, and that students who oppose the funding of HPC dinners can voice their concerns at hall council meet­ings. 
Certo repeatedly stressed his ability and desire to work hard for the student body, stating that if elected he "would drop all other (extra-curricular) ac­tivities." 
In response to a question about the alleged ineffective­ness of student government, Delevan said he hoped to make greater use of the Campus Life Council, a body that he said had real power because "the Office of Student Affairs is required to respond to its proposals." 
When questioned about their lack of experience in student government, Smith and Good­win stated that their "inexperience is an asset" in that student government would benefit from the the leadership of new people with fresh ideas. The election for student body president and vice president will take place on February 10. If no ticket receives a majority 
in the initial balloting a runoff election will be held on Febru­ary 12. 
All on-campus students can vote in their residence halls be­tween 11 a.m. and 1 p.m., and 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
Off-campus voting will take place in LaFortune Student Center, the Hesburgh Memorial Library, and both dining halls. 
A 

:MEMORIAL 
TO THE 

AMERICAN 
CANCER 
SOCIE1Y 

WILL HELP 
IN THE 

CONOUEST 
OF CANCER. 
soo~-to-be privatize? oil com-...+++++++++++++++++++++++++•+++++++++++++•
pames. and to obtam 60-year 
leases on exploration sites. • 
The proceeds from these in­vestments could finance a sub-+ stantial part of Russia's eco-• nomic modernization, Sorokin • told journalists. 
The privatization of Russian t oil should take three to five • years, said Alexander Mariachine, president of the • Neftgazstroibank, the Russian • 

l!mlnll: 
illlliilli6lililiiilliil~ii4J + 
:• 
t 



ii~~~~:
i 

HOUSES •• ~~ ~ ~~~~ •

9 
Security Systems • 
4-8 Bedrooms • Fully furnished • KEGERATORS • 
Security Systems • 
287-4989 

~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ 
t 
•t t



rEurope, This : 
•t t

Winte~ 
Load011 $J75• •• lruscls $511• 
Pn ssu• +
= ~. 
·r.a-rt:.U'dltip • 
~~.T-rot 

rmldia15 CJP!y, CAll b olha' • d5Niiora.boih cne Wfl(tnd ~· 

~!!!!~: 
• •
• 
+ • 
• • 
• 
SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS : SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS + SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS :
•
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN HELPING TO MANAGE AND : ACCOUNT FOR $400,000? t 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEEDS YOU AS THE : 
ASSIST ANT STUDENT BODY TREASURER. t
•
THE ASSIST ANT STUDENT BODY TREASURER AIDS THE : STUDENT BODY TREASURER IN DISBURSING FUNDS t FOR: +
+ 
• 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT t 

• 
STUDENT UNION BOARD t 

• 
HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL t 


• 
• CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS t 
THIS IS IN PREPARATION FOR YOUR BECOMING THE : ~"'rllJ]])JEWlr IECQ)]])lY lrill.lEA~llJill.lEill. THE FOLLOWING t YEAR. t
•
APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT STUDENT : GOVERNMENT, 2ND FLOOR, LAFORTUNE BETWEEN t 8:00AM-5:00PM; t DUE ON FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14 BY 4:00PM. t
•
QUESTIONS, CALL 239-7417 •• t
•
• 
• 
31t:ti1~5as + : 
Call For A Free 199!2 Student Travel catalog! 
:......................................• 
----~~----~-~­
Thursday, February 6, 1992 
U. N. Security Council keeps sanctions on Iraq 
UNITED NATIONS (AP} -The Security Council increased the pressure on Iraq on Wednesday, renewing its commitment to punishing sanctions, and diplomats hinted that a threat of further military action could be coming. 
In a bimonthly review of sanctions imposed on Iraq for its invasion of Kuwait, the 15­member council decided to keep in place an 18-month-old worldwide ban on almost all trade with Saddam Hussein's government. 
Iraq has appealed repeatedly for an end to the sanctions, but the council pointed to Saddam's belligerency and non-coopera­tion with the world community in choosing to continue the punishment. 
Abdul Amir al-Anbari, Iraq's 
U.N. ambassador, said his gov­ernment "has almost met all its obligations" and is disappointed the sanctions will continue. 
He also contended, in an in­terview, that "some members are apparently cooking some hostile, perhaps, actions. n 
Diplomats suggested that tougher action -possibly in­cluding a threat of military force -could be taken if Iraq does not fully cooperate with 
U.N. inspections of its nuclear, chemical and biological weapons facilities. 
"Stand by for further news," 
U.S. Ambassador Thomas Pickering told reporters after chairing a closed-door council meeting. He declined to elabo­rate. 
Fresh evidence of Saddam's obstinacy came Wednesday in Bahrain, where the leader of a 
U.N. team said Iraq was still trying to conceal information about its chemical and biologi­cal arsenal. 
~--~------­
--------------·------~---_, 
The Observer page 5 

Eins, zwei, drei 

Freshman Stan Brunner completes his foriegn language lab. The laboratory is located on the second 
floor of O'Shaughnessy. 


Eating disorders lecture series continues 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Eating disorders are serious problems even though they are not always treated as such, said Roseann Woodka, an eating disorders specialist. 
"Eating problems are really serious, but people tend to treat them as frivolous, n said Woodka. "Eating disorders are an addiction." 
Woodka defined an addiction as any life threatening action that affects us in an adverse way yet we still continue. 
"There are a lot of myths concerning eating disorders,n said Woodka. She explained that while anorexia literally means "lack of hunger,n it is really the denial of hunger and the refusal to do anything about the hunger. For the anorexic food is punishment. 
The compulsive overeater uses food as a reward, and the bulimic abuses food, but will do something about it through purging. 
"Purging is not just throwing up, there are many ways to purge, such as exercise, diuret­ics, laxative and restricting," said Woodka. 
Woodka explained that you can not always spot someone with a disorder simply by look­ing. "Not everyone who is skinny or skips a meal is anorexic," she said. "You use your eyes, but not only your eyes, you must also look at a person's behavior and their re­lationship to food. n 
Woodka cited that denial is "the hallmark of eating disor­ders and other addictions." 
"Most people do not deal with eating disorders lightly," said Woodka. "It takes a talented, but sad person.n 
Compulsive overeaters have a secret sense of sadness and helplessness. Bulimics have a secret sense of shame, and anorexics have a secret sense of pride, because they are in control, but underneath, they have a extremely low sense of self-esteem, according to Woodka. 
Societal image and body im­age both play a part in eating disorders. "Society sends a message that you need a good body to get a man, said
n 


AT THE RONKIN EDUCATIONAL GROUP OUR CLASS SIZES ARE LIMITED TO NO MORE THAN 10 STUDENTS PER CLASS. SIGN UP NOW FOR PREPARATION COURSE FOR SUMMER lSAT 
This example of personalized attention IS JUSt one of the reasons our classes are filling up fast. Call now to reserve a seat. 
• 
40 Hours Of Live Instruction 

• 
Live Thtorial Available At No Extra Charge 

• 
National800 Telephone Helpline 

• 
6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams 

• 
Constantly Updated Materials 




WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 



CONGRATULATIONS 

Joanne Hoge 
& 

Matt Curoe 
Engaged January 31, 1992 
Welcome to the Family, Joanne Love, Andy 
Woodka. In high school and college you are very concerned with how you look and how others look is very important, and all affect body image, ac­cording to Woodka. 
The lecture was part of a series sponsored during National Eating Disorders Awareness Week. Becky Cook with continue the series tonight with a lecture on diet at 6:30 
p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. 
Please 
Recycle 
The Observer when you are finished reading it 

Thank you! 
Teenager testifies in killings 

PHOENIX (AP} -A teen­ager charged with killing nine people at a Buddhist temple claimed to be an as­sassin for military intelli­gence and admitted shooting monks "mercenary style," a fellow ROTC cadet testified. 
"He said the monks were invading on some type of national security so OSI (the Office of Special Investiga­tions} had to eliminate them," Benjamin Leininger testified Tuesday during the fourth day of hearings. 
The hearings are to deter­mine if Jonathan Doody, 17, should be tried as an adult in the Aug. 10 massacre at the Wat Promkunaram Temple in which six monks, two young male followers and an elderly nun were shot to death. A similar hearing is scheduled later for co-defen­dant Alessandro "Alex" Garcia, 16. 
Doody, whose younger brother frequented the tem­ple, was a member of the ROTC at Agua Fria High School in suburban Avon­dale. 
WHY ASK WHY? 
ATTENTION: ND and SMC Business Students and MBA's 
DDB-Needham Worldwide Executives: 
Dennis Ryan (Vice President-Creative Director); ND Class of '84 
AND 
Michael Holsinger (Account Supervisor); ND Class of '82 
will be givin~ a presentation on the advertising industry, advertising agencies, and the Bud Dry campaign "Why Ask Why?" 
They will cover the campaign aspects fro~ bo,th a creati~e director's perspective and an account supervisors perspecuve. 
WHEN: Thursday, February 6 AT 7:00 WHERE: LaFortune's Montgomery Theatre, frrst floor LaFortune 
* sponsored by Notre Dame Marketing Club * 
-~-----------~­
page 6 The Observer Thursday, February 6, 1992 


Customs Service destroys anti-drug Aerostat balloon 
RIO GRANDE CITY, Texas (AP) -A huge helium balloon providing communications for federal drug enforcement broke loose from its moorings and was destroyed, officials said today. 
High winds may have prompted a cable on the teth­ered "aerostat," one of three such balloons along the Texas­Mexico border, to break late Tuesday, said an Air Force spokesman. 
"It is down and destroyed," said John Smith at Langley Air Force Base near Hampton, Va. "We have sent an Air Force of­ficer to the scene and are trying to get more information." 
The Air Force manages and operates the fleet of six aerostats -the three in Texas plus two in Arizona and one in New Mexico. Each one cost $12 million. 
They form a 2,000-mile-long "radar fence" capable of tracking aircraft along the en­tire U.S.-Mex.ico border. 
The white, 233-foot-long, 
fish-shaped balloons are teth­ered to their ground stations with cables made of a plastic material up to five times stronger than steel, according to the U.S. Customs Service. 
The cable contains electrical lines to power the radar equipment inside the aerostats and lines that transmit data to the ground. 
Customs spokeswoman Judy Turner in Houston said high winds could have helped cause the cable on the aerostat, lo­cated near the southern tip of Texas, to break. 
She described the balloons as "mini-blimps" that fly as high as 15,000 feet and provide surveillance of areas of 300 miles in diameter. 
"When the cable breaks, it is a free flying balloon. and we would want to take every safety measure," she said. 
Other balloon sites in Texas are at Marfa and Eagle Pass. Bad weather, including high winds. caused major damage to the Marfa aerostat last month. 
fta Chinese Golden DragonAcrobats and Magicians of ,.aipei 
Thursday and 

February 6 and 7 8:10pm Washington Hall 
Tickets $8 -Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students 
$10-General Admission Group rates a LaFortune Center Box office 

The Cllserver/Oavid Hungeling
The police are watching 
~ather Alfred_ D'~lonzo, assistant rector of Pangborn, expresses his displeasure at having received a t1cket for parkmg m a no parking zone. 

Applications are now being accepted for the following paid positions: Managing Editor Business Manager 
Applicants for the Managing Editor's position should: •Have a wide base of Macintosh computer knowledge• •Have strong interpersonal and management skills• •Have strong editing skills and experience• •Be familiar with newspaper production• 
Applicants for the Business Manager's position should: •Be a sophomore or junior Business major• •Have desire to gain valuable work experience• •Have strong interpersonal and organizational skills• •Have a firm grasp of basic accounting principles• 
A three-page personal statement and resume must be submitted to Monica Yant by 5 p.m. Friday, Feb. 7. For further information or job descriptions, contact Lisa Eaton (Managing Editor) or Gil Gomez (Business Manager), at The Observer, 239-5303. 
IllALUMNI=====
SENIOR 





~CLUB 
STUDENT BARTENDER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM OP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 5, 1992 


Thursday, February 6, 1992 

Shooting two 
Freshman Chris McConn takes advantage of the unseasonably warm temperatures this week to shoot a basketball outside of Cavanaugh Hall. 
c;f)~V~
Send your Valentine a unique gilt in THIS space! Deadline lor FEB. 14 is FEB.12 Stop by 3rd Floor Lalortunec:{J lor more details! \@ 


~~·~ 
~("..····-·-·· -----··-·----~~ 
~ "IT'S WHAT YOU'VE BEEN . WAITING FOR!" 
* HOmmE COOKIN' IN TEXASSIZED POR'IlONS AT AFFORDABlE PRI~ (NO 'I1PPING RF.QUIRFll IN TilE RESTAilRANI') 
* UVE COOORY MUSIC WIDNESDAY thru SATIJRDAY 
* COUNntY SWING, 2-SlY.P AND UNE DANCE llSSONS mDAY thru THURSDAY 
* 
MONI'HLY CONCERTS BY 11IE NATION'S TOP COUNI'RY JmORMERS *Brooks &Dmm *Pam 'rilm *HoDy Dmm *Diamond Rio 

* 
DIS11NC'IlVE PRIVA'm EVEN!' FACIIlTI&'i FOR UP TO 450 GUESTS 


NOWO~ 
222 S. MICHIGAN 
*DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND *USA 
~-~---­
-~---------------~------------------­
The Observer page? 
Project Tower plans for Saint Mary's future 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
A plan for the future. This is what a long-range planning committee along with task forces and study groups have been called together to create for Saint Mary's College. 
"We want them to develop short-term recommendations, long-term goals thinking to the year 2000 and beyond, and to dream," said Donald Horning, chairman of the long-range planning committee. 
Horning was named chair in August of the committee to oversee the planning process entitled Project Tower. Since that time the other committee members, who were chosen in October, have formed task forces to look at the following areas: Academic Affairs, Administration, College Relations, Fiscal Affairs, and Student Affairs. 
Each task force then identi­fied the areas and issues it wanted studied and addressed in the individual study groups. 
"In some instances we were doing over-lapping work. 

Rebels questioned after failed coup attempt 
CARACAS, Venezuela-The government questioned scores of captured rebel officers Wednesday as it tried to mea­sure the scope of an attempted coup against President Carlos Andres Perez. 
Lt. Col. Hugo Chavez and three other junior officers who led the coup planned to orga­nize a "progressive" civilian­military junta to rid the country of corruption, it was disclosed Wednesday. 
A statement by the plotters also indicated resentment over plans to use officers in police actions. "Instead of practicing with our war arms, we were preparing with barricades to stop and kill students," it said. 
Gunfire was reported Wednesday night outside the Military Intelligence Building where Chavez is held, reported Radio Rumbos, but the incident appeared minor. The station said a truckload of national guardsmen drove past the Rather than eliminate the over­lap, we encouraged it," said Horning. "Different people-students, faculty, and administrators-result in very different configurations. It (the over-lap)· should present exciting challenges." 

Everyone was to answer some key questions to establish a common core, according to Horning. 
One of the common cores, was that each study group should identify the specific aspects of the college's mission statement that are relevant to that particular group's area of concern. 
"The study groups need to examine how to get their rec­ommendations to fit, can they live with them if they don't fit, or should the mission be changed," said Horning. "We need to look at what truly re­flects the spirit of the institu­tion, and if we are not living up to the mandate, how do we ful­fill the mandate or change the mission." 
Groups are also asked to de­termine issues that should be addressed shortly (three years of less), long-term issues of 
building and intelligence troops opened fire, mistaking them for rebels. In an exchange of gun­fire, a guardsman was injured, it said. 
The plotters' statement was read Tuesday over the radio in Maracay, one of four cities where troops rebelled, but its contents was not widely known until Wednesday. 
A copy was provided to The Associated Press by Enrique Ochoa, leader of a human rights group allied with the leftist Movement Toward Socialism. Ochoa, who is the brother of Defense Minister Fernando Ochoa, said the rights group opposed the coup but thought its message should be conveyed to the public. 
A total of 1,089 soldiers sur­rendered after the coup failed. They were being interrogated by investigators to determine whether the coup had the sup­port of political groups, well­placed officials said. They spoke address, projections and are even asked to dream. 
"Dreaming is an important part of long-range planning," said Horning. "We need to ig­nore cost, and everything else, and think if I could do anything, what would I like to see happen." 
"There are guidelines with flexibility," he said. "You need some structure within which to work." 
Study groups are meeting now and are scheduled to com­plete their work in mid-March. The task forces will then review the work of these study groups in their particular area till April, when they will report back to the long-range planning committee in the middle of April. 
The preliminary report will be prepared over the summer, and submitted to the Board of Regents at their October meet­ing. 
"All this will be accomplished in a very short time," said Horning. "People are out there taking the challenge in the way we hoped it would be." 
on condition of anonymity. 
The coup plotters could face up to 30 years in prison. 
Foreign exchange markets remained closed and the Caracas Stock Exchange stood idle to prevent panic selling. 
Government officials said they saw no further threat to the country's 34-year-old democratic system from the military ranks. 
"This will not happen again," Perez said on television Tuesday evening. Members of the military command have ral­lied to Perez since the coup. 
But critics said the govern­ment it needed to make changes in its Draconian economic reform program in order to survive. 
"This crisis should not be considered over because the uprising has been crushed. To think that way would be an illu­sion," wrote Jose Vicente Rangel, a former presidential candidate. 


··. 

A CONTEMPORARY CAFE WITH A TOUCH OF THE OLD WORLD 

Opening February 5, 1992 
Stop in for a Free Sample of Our Fresh Ground Coffee February 5, 6, and 7 
7:30 AM -2:00 AM 
~­
OPEN: 7:30AM UNTIL 2:00 AM -MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY 
10:00 AM UNTIL 2:00 AM -SATURDAY AND SUNDAY LOCATED IN THE LOWER LEVEL OF LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 

----~-----~­
page 8 The Observer Thursday, February 6, 1992 
U.S. math, science test scores lag behind other countries 


Festival 
continued from page 1 
February 26. Brodkey has pub­lished several collections of short stories, including "First Love and Other Sorrows," "Women and Angels," and most recently, "Stories in an Almost Classical Mode." 
Brodkey's work has appeared 

Grants 
continued from page 3 
rector of the Bessert Center for Aerospace Research and pro­fessor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering. 
-$25,000 from the Whirlpool Corporation for research on the cold storage option by Kwang­Tzu Yang, Viola Hank professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
Reduce. . .Reuse ... Recycle 



r -------­
I 

I weve Got 
I I I 
. 
i<

I I 


Escape to HomewoodI Suites®and enjoy all the 
I 
comfort, privacy and convenience of home. 
I 
Without the chores. Including separate living and sleeping areas, 
complete kitchen,I complimentary breakfast 
I 
and so much more. All at the price you'd expect $10 OFF NORMAL WEEKEND 
for an ordinary hotel 
RATE WHEN YOU BRING THIS AD. 
I 
room. It's the perfect
OFFER GOOD ONLY FRIDAY, 
hideout.
SATURDAY AND SUNDAY NIGHTS. 
in The New Yorker, Esquire, Partisan Review and Antaeus. 
Allison Lurie, who has written eight novels and won the 1984 Pulitzer Prize for fiction for "Foreign Affairs," will read on February 27. Lurie's work often satirizes the wealthy and educated classes in America. Her novel, "The War between the Tates," was filmed for tele­vision. 
Poet and author Toby Olson 
-$21,000 from the American Chemical Society Petroleum Research Fund for research on photoresponsive receptors and catalysts by Bradley Smith, as­sistant professor of chemistry and biochemistry. 
-$19,991 from the U.S. Navy for the research on ordering in ternary and multinary semicon­ductors by Kathie Newman, professor of physics. 
-$4,500 from the United Casualty Agency for the support of scholarly work by Abbot 
THANK YOU!!! 
will read on February 28. Olson's work has appeared in more than one hundred magazines and journals, includ­ing Nation, New York Quarterly, Choice, Confrontation, Ohio Review, American Poetry Review and Poetry Now. 
A professor of English at Temple University in Philadelphia, Olson received a PEN/Faulkner Award in 1983 for the novel "Seaview." 
Astrik Gabriel, director and professor emeritus in Medieval 
Institute and director of the ,------------------------------.. 
Frank M. Folsom Ambrosiana microfilm and photographic col­lection. 
-$1,500 from Wallace Bedolfe for the support of scholarly work by Abbot Astrik 
L. Gabriel, director and profes­sor emeritus in Medieval Institute and director of the Frank M. Folsom Ambrosiana microfilm and photographic collection. 
Don't forget • Vote 
Monday, Feb. 1 0 
Why settle for apa!tf
when you can have aball. 
The 6" Meatball Sub Only 
$1.00 OFF I 
$1.00 off any regular footlong 1 sandwich. Limit five footlong 
1 

sandwiches per order. I 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Ninety percent of U.S. students are learning below international averages in math and science, although top American schoolchildren can compete with the best around the world, the Educational Testing Service said Wednesday. 
Education Secretary Lamar Alexander described the survey results as "sort of a reverse Lake Wobegon effect." He re­ferred to the fictional Minnesota town where all the children are above average. 
"This is not the kind of report that an America that likes to be first should be happy about," said Alexander. 
The testing service said a new survey shows that 13-year-olds from the United States scored lower in science than top­ranked South Korea, Taiwan, Switzerland, the former Soviet Union, Hungary. France, Italy, Israel, Canada, Scotland, Slovenia and Spain. 
England, China, Portugal and Brazil also had 13-year-olds scoring higher than U.S. stu­dents, but these did not test all of the students in this age group. 
Ireland and Jordan had 13­year-olds scoring lower in science than U.S. students. Japan and Germany did not participate in the survey. 
The math results were similar for the 13-year-olds. 
American 9-year-olds fared better in science, averaging third best behind South Korea and Taiwan. But the Americans ranked near the bottom in mathematics. 
"This study confirms beyond any doubt that our students are not even near the best in either science or mathematics skills," said Luther S. Williams of the National Science Foundation. 
Archie Lapointe, the project leader for the survey, said, "The issue here is not about comparisons" and cautioned against turning "such surveys into horse races with postings to win, place or show." 
Lapointe said the primary reason for the studies should be "to determine what is possible for young students ages 9 and 13 to achieve in a given subject area." 
The top 10 percent of American students compare fa­vorably with the top students from other countries in both math and science, said the sur­vey. 
On average however, students from the United States scored considerably lower than their South Korean peers on the mathematics tests. U.S. 13­year-olds scored 55 percent correct against South Korea's 73 percent. Fifty-eight percent of America's 9-year-olds an­swered questions correctly, compared with 75 percent of the South Koreans. 

L 
You CAN HAVE1HE .ExrnAORDINARY'"-1 
APROMUS COMPANY For the hotel that's like home call 
1-800-cALL·HOME 
Or your travel agent Syracuse-Liverpool 275 Elwood Davis Rd. (315) 451-3800 4 MILES FROM THE CARRIER DOME 
I
ll 
I 

Ill NolaJr~*'~~ =!~E~pir~~ 81 



1: •• 
I @I] ~IUI;ri :I 
.J~----------------------~ 
$1.99 SPECIAL I 
Buy one regular footlong and large 1 Coca-Cola at regular price, get a 
1
second regular footlong of equal or I lesser value or only $1.99. 
Do<ble ~Mats not included. •• 
Nol valid w~h lillY other discount. • Offer good at all particl>ating locations. • Expireo 2128192 
I
~11Ft•J1;t'i.) : 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, February 6, 1992 The Observer page 9 
Intelligence services face reorganization 

The Observer/Rachel Hugh 

Settling in 
Anita Warren, a junior, gets comfortable as she prepares for a long night of reading in one of Siegfried Hall's study lounges. Study lounges are popular places across campus to complete assignments. 


S{eeping 13eauty 
presentee{ 6y tlie Inaianapo{is 'Ba{{et rJiieatre 

8 o'cf«.fy !Jritfay, !ft6TUIJry 7, 19:J2 O'Laugfilin J.llu4itorium, St. 'Mary's Co(kge 
'T!d;Jts availa6k at La!forturu lnfonnation 'Desk._ ana O'.LaUfJiilin11cr.t Offia 


'J{ptrt 'Dam4St. Mary's Stutfmts: $7 (jtrura! J.llt!mission: $14 5wior Citi.urr.s antf Cliiltfren 'Urukr 10: $12 
STUDENT UNION 1104110 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The chairmen of Congress' intelli­gence committees on Wednesday unveiled a sweeping reorganization plan to put all of America's worldwide spy operations under a new and stronger intelligence chief. 
The chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Sen. David Boren, and his House counterpart, Rep. Dave McCurdy, both Oklahoma Democrats, said their proposal was an attempt to stimulate bolder action from the Bush administration as it conducts its own study of U.S. intelligence. 
The proposed restructuring of agencies from the CIA to mil­itary intelligence and electronic spying was aimed at reshaping America's intelligence capabil­ity to fit a post-Cold War world. 
"The world has changed, and the intelligence community must change with it," Boren said. 
The announcement met with a bland CIA response which noted past statements by agency director Robert Gates about the need for reforming the intelligence agencies. 
The statement Gates is cur­rently considering a variety of sweeping recommendations from various task forces he had created and "looks forward" to working with the oversight committees on these proposals. 
Among Congress' proposed changes: 
-Creation of a National Intelligence Center whose director would be what McCurdy termed an intelligence "czar with teeth," with stronger authority over collection, analysis and clandestine operations than the current CIA director. 
-Cutting the CIA in half, lim­iting its activities to clandestine human spying and covert oper­ations. 
-Abolition of the supersecret National Reconnaissance Office, which operates under Air Force cover at the Pentagon and designs, launches and operates signals and photo satellites. In its place would be the National Imagery Agency, which would collect and analyze satellite pictures. 
The nation's far-flung spy apparatus, which includes more than a dozen major agencies and numerous smaller offices, has grown in haphazard fashion since its creation after World War II. 
Despite its decentralized management, the so-called "intelligence community" has been able to function because most of its efforts were directed at one goal -countering the Soviet military threat. 
With the major U.S. foe gone from the world scene, policy­makers worry more now about ethnic strife, Third World con­flict, the proliferation of nuclear and chemical weapons and terrorism. 
The proposed restructuring also would help America's intel­ligence apparatus, long accused of wasteful duplication, ease into the shrunken budget it will have for fiscal 1993 and be­yond. 

~--------------------~ 
:• cross country • • •• 
•

• skiing tour • 

sunday, february 9 
!O:OOam registration and orientation 11:OOam -1:30pm tour with lunch : $3.00 or $5.00 with equipment : • register in advance at RecSports by Friday at 5:OOpm •
..._____________________ 
• 
LSAT, GMAT, GRE &: MCAT Prep Courses 

• 
Grad School Selection 

• 
Application Assistance 

• 
Free Diagnostic Testing 

• 
Enrichment Courses 



273-1866 



Business 
page 10 Thursday, February 6, 1992 

Allegro opens its doors for business 
By ALICIA REALE Walter hopes to create a cof­Business Writer feehouse environment in the 
shop. "We tried to do something 
different," said Walter. "The 

After much anticipation, Alle­trend now is uniqueness," she gro, the coffee shop in the added. Tentative plans include basement of LaFortune Student scheduling of musicians to play
Center, finally opened Wednes­in the new store. day. "We feel the set-up of Allegro 
"Allegro's first day went brings sandwiches to the cus­great," said Sherri Walter, as­tomer faster and more effi­sistant manager of the Huddle, ciently," said Walter. The who is overseeing the new cof­sandwiches are presented and fee shop. prepared differently in the new 
This new shop sells inexpen­shop than they were in the sive pastries and assorted bev­crowded Huddle, according to erages. It also offers numerous Walter. flavors of fresh-ground coffee Customers can enjoy their (including Bavarian chocolate, food, pastries, and hot and cold Irish cream, and hazelnut beverages at the numerous ta­cream), as well as cappuccino bles in the relaxed atmosphereand espresso. of the shop. The shop was 
Customers can also enjoy crowded on its opening daysandwiches, since University Wednesday, according to Wal­Food Services has moved the ter. "We got nothing but com­deli in the Huddle downstairs to pliments (about Allegro). Ev­
the new shop. erything went really smoothly." 
Allegro replaced Fudge 'N' Walter said she "hopes every­Things, the ice cream and body will continue to come in." candy store. Business at the ice Allegro will be open from cream store had decreased in 7:30 a.m.-2 a.m., Mondaythe past few years, according to through Friday, and 10 a.m.-2 Walter. a.m., Saturday and Sunday. 
was quoted as telling parlia­where up to 1,000 people may ment that Americans "lack a one day be employed. work ethic ... to live by the Or they could have been sweat of their brow." mindful that Japanese money 
Miyazawa later said the re­already is invested about 35 mark had been distorted. But miles to the west, in the Wheel­the words still stung, and ing-Nisshin Inc. steel mill in brought on another round in Follansbee, W.Va. The mill, the national sport of Japan­employing 114 people, is jointly bashing. owned by Wheeling-Pittsburgh 
At a Chevrolet dealership in Steel Corp. of Pittsburgh and nearby Latrobe this week, peo­Nisshin Steel Co. Ltd. of Japan. ple paid $150 at a dollar a Bubba Reid, a pub owner whack to smash a Japanese­from Bethany, W.Va., was im­made Honda Civic with a pressed with the Japanese in­sledgehammer. The money will fluence on operations at the be donated to a United Auto Wheeling-Nisshin mill. Workers local. 
Chiodo's patrons, though, "I'll tell you something about didn't volunteer any anti-Japan efficiency. You talk about clean­sentiments. liness and organization. No 
Maybe they remembered that comparison," Reid said. Sony Corp. of Japan plans to "They're all topnotch people. open a television assembly fac­They don't mess around too tory in nearby New Stanton, much." 

HOMESTEAD, Pa. (AP) ­Americans work hard for the money, no matter what Japanese officials may assume, say blue-collar patrons at Chiodo's Tavern. Some say they must work even harder now be­cause good-paying jobs are tough to find. 
"I think we're the hardest workers in this world. More mechanically inclined. Better trained," said Jay Pishinsky, 29, of Munhall. 
Pishinsky trained in high school to become a motor in­spector for what then was U.S. Steel, which had a big mill in Homestead. "By the time I fin­ished high school, there was no United States Steel," he said. 
Now, Pishinsky, who was laid off from his seasonal job laying asphalt, and his wife, a corpo­rate secretary, can't afford the American dream -but not from any lack of gumption. 
He said he and other Ameri­can workers haven't lost incen­tive. Quite the opposite: They work harder than ever because of the poor economy. "We have to be that way. We have to prove ourselves," he said. 
Others at the bar in this Pittsburgh suburb also com­plained as much about their fading earning power as about apparent America-bashing by Japanese officials. 
Patrons said union jobs that pay up to $17 per hour are scarce, and workers who make $5 or $6 an hour, while hard­working, may be resentful and feel less connected with the workplace. 
"I just think it's unfortunate what happened to the low-wage worker," said restaurant owner Tim Cleary, 30, of Pittsburgh. 
Chiodo's Tavern once quenched the thirst of laborers from the Homestead Works of 
U.S. Steel, now USX Corp. The plant forged the structural steel that built the Empire State Building and the Sears Tower but closed in 1986. 
The bar {pronounced kee-OH­doze) also served workers from Mesta Machine Co., which then­Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev visited in 1959 as an example of vigorous American manufacturing. Mesta has filed for bankruptcy court protection. 
Japanese-America trade ten­sion has escalated since Presi­dent Bush's visit there last month. A Japanese lawmaker was quoted as saying American workers were lazy and many were illiterate. On Monday, Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa 
Bush issues state of economy report 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush, issuing his annual report on the state of the econ­omy, said Wednesday that while America faces serious economic challenges, quick passage of his stimulus program would go a long way toward meeting them. 
This year's 423-page "Economic Report of the Presi­dent" insisted his package of consumer and business tax breaks represent a reasoned approach to spurring an eco­nomic upturn without inflating already huge budget deficits. 
The addition of the growth package was the main differ­ence from last year's report. In that document, the president had confidently predicted that the recession would be "mild and brief" and would end by the middle of 1991 without the need for the kinds of tax cuts the president is now proposing. 
The new report also forecasts a sustained recovery beginning by the middle of this year and Michael Boskin, the president's chief economic adviser, said he sure thing. 
He said that since last year's report was issued, the Federal Reserve had greatly accelerated its efforts to lower interest rates, pushing them to levels not seen in nearly three decades, and this should help to spur growth beginning in the spring. 
In his three-page introduction to this year's report, Bush termed 1991 a "challenging year for the American economy. Output was stagnant and unemployment rose." 
However, he called those problems "temporary setbacks" brought on by a variety of factors, including the huge buildup of debt during the 1980s, the adverse effects as defense spending is cut back and earlier credit tightening on the part of the Fed that had been aimed at keeping inflation in check. 
Looking to the future, Bush said, "The United States faces serious economic challenges to speed, strengthen and sustain basis for long-term growth in productivity, income and em­ployment opportunities." 
Bush said that his State of the Union and budget messages had laid out a comprehensive program to address both the economy's short-term and long­term problems. 
In an appearance Wednesday, the president said the short­term program was a "rifle-shot approach" to stimulating de­mand and he asked for the help from his audience of small business executives to force Congress to pass the package by the March 20 deadline he has set. 
"Send this message: no more delay, no substitutes," Bush told the group. 
Boskin said that the economy, as measured by the gross do­mestic product (GOP). would probably rise at a fairly sluggish annual rate of around 1 percent in the current January-March quarter, although he said 
believed current conditions  economic recovery and simul­ anything  from  zero  to  1. 5  President Bush issued his annual report on the state of the economy  
make that outlook more of a  taneously to provide a firmer  percent was possible.  Wednesday.  He urged quick adoption of his economic proposals to  
combat the current recession.  



Viewpoint 
Thursday, February 6, 1992 Page 11 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ......••.•••.......•... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentanes, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters. is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Our future de 
Dear Editor: 
staff consists of fourteen full­A year ago at this time I was 

time staff and three hundred

thinking about doing a Summer volunteers. It is truly amazing 
Service Project through the 
to realize that the majority of

Center for Social Concerns. 
services are available becauseNow, six months after my pro­of individuals who devote their 

ject ended, I am still amazed by peo e, perce time to The Center anywherethe depth of my experience, and be lacking the basic essentials lifestyles, deserve to get AIDS? 
relationships. from once a month to twice a 
the enriched perspective I have for life. For many Americans This ignorant attitude is com­One man expressed to me his week. I strongly recall one edu­on my own life, as well as on the thought of AIDS is akin to monly expressed, whether it is desire to love unconditionally, cated person discussing her life 
some of the social issues facing death; yet here were people through an individual's words while striving to accept people before AIDS: "I too used to vol-our society today. Last summer dealing with this disease as just or the government's weak re­for who they are. His words are unteer once in a while. Yet I spent eight weeks in Oakland, another one of the difficulties in sponse to the treatment of peo­
reminiscent of the final never did I imagine that one 
California working at The Cen-life. ple with AIDS. 
thoughts of Father Zosima in day I would be on the receiving
ter for AIDS Services. One day I sat on the back Despite discrimination experi-Dostoevsky's work "The Broth­end." The Center is a drop-in day porch listening to two clients, enced because of race, gender, 
ers Karamazov": "One day is The opportunity presented to 
center for people who are HIV Don and Samantha, discuss the sexuality, and health, many enough for a man [or woman] me through the Summer positive or who have AIDS. The throw-away attitude of the people with AIDS display a to know all happiness. My dear Service Project program was community formed at the Cen-United States as evidenced by magnificent sense of humor. ones, why do we quarrel, try to invaluable; through this ter struggles to meet the needs, the medical industry, the media, Some of these people are bru­
outshine each other and keep experience I was able to widen both material and spiritual, of the treatment of the environ-tally honest about what is going grudges against each other? my perspective on my own life the men, women, and children, ment, and the manner in which on in life. Indeed, I left my Let's go straight into the gar­as a college student as well as 
and their caregivers who are too many of us live our every-project with the conviction that den, walk and play there, love, the lives that are directlyaffected by AIDS. Free services day lives. From their perspec-I had learned more about life, appreciate, and kiss each other affected by many of the include weekly groceries from tive AIDS is an issue that has love, and self-identity from and glorify life." (268, Norton distressing issues that our the foodbank, daily hot lunches, been ignored for too long. Ac-these people than from any 
Critical Edition) society must address. Over one van transportation, housing re-cording to them, it is only re-class I had ever taken. 
From an awareness of one's hundred Summer Service Pro­ferrals, social outings, and cently, since AIDS became Furthermore, many people 
imminent death a person may ject placements exist, located 
counseling. prevalent in the heterosexual with AIDS have a heightened gain a renewed appreciation for all over the United States. I 
Before arriving at my project I community, that people are appreciation for the life they the life remaining. The present strongly encourage you to take envisioned AIDS to be one of the willing to address this crisis. possess. After initially being moments must not be wasted; advantage of such opportuni­worst things that could happen One might wonder how Don or stopped in their tracks by AIDS, 
our future depends on it. ties. Don't delay -applications
to a person. During my first day Sam react upon reading in the some people have dramatically Doing a full-time service pro­are due this Friday. at The Center, however, it soon newspaper about the "innocent altered their lives, seeking to ject enabled me to see volun­Bridget Spann became apparent to me that victims" of AIDS. Does the root out all that is unimportant, 
teering from the perspective of Pasquerllla West even if many of these people did public truly believe that some in exchange for what they the service agency. The Center's Feb.2,1992 
Article's London prefix misrepresented Ireland's 'Derry' 
Dear Editor: Londonderry for Derry. change the city's official name city's population. It seems quite In the future, please edit AP A few years ago when the back to its real name. Only the 
unacceptable that the articles to change any use of
I was disappointed reading majority nationalist community queen can do that. 
newspaper of a Catholic Londonderry to Derry, and 
your AP story for Thursday's finally managed to gain control university which calls its sports please don't use that horrible 'L'(The Observer, Jan. 30) 20th of the previously Very few people of Ireland teams Irish, should persist in word in headlines. 
anniversary of Bloody Sunday, gerrymandered city council, (including none south of the using that awful imperially
especially considering the they changed its name to 'The border) uses that silly name imposed and maintained name Ullck Stafford innocent people killed there, to Council of the City of Derry.' with the London prefix, and for the fourth largest city in Off-campussee that you used the name Unfortunately the council can't definitely not the majority of the Ireland. Jan.30,1992
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
·-----­
Mt<. EJUCHANAN,
~-------­
·----HOW lXJ YOU &X­
'Food, one assumes,

PLAIN YWR 17 YWTHM THEn'S NO WAYMOUND yt,tlf<S IN TH& INI?ISCR/3­
provides nourishment. But 
fT-Jf/13'VE3 60T 70 TAJ<e Mt:/1/A? TION. 7Ht OfFfNS!V£3 A(AJNST 
Americans eat it fully aware that 
BUCHANAN.' ~ 
small amounts of poison have been added to improve its appearance and delay its putrefaction.' John Cage 
~ 
You are what you submit: 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint
Page 12 Thursday, February 6, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
As members of the University of Notre Dame, it is our duty to be aware of the Board of Trustees, the group of people who have a tremendous amount of power in deciding how our University is run. Jane Pfieffer, a current trustee of Notre Dame, is also in the Board of Directors at International Paper Company (IP). Under the direct Leadership of the Board of Directors, IP has shown con· tinuous disregard for workers, local communities, and the global environment. 
The United Paperworkers International Union (UPIU) has made known that the Mississippi Department of 
Fear of 'havoc' un·ustl 

International Paper Co. neglects the environment 
Environmental Quality called on IP for dumping asbestos-con· taminated waste in water-filled trenches and verified that IP dumped deadly PCB's at Moss Point. 
UPIU also revealed that IP was found guilty in July of felony counts of lying to the state and federal government about its hazardous waste practices in Jay, Maine. In November, Maine Attorney General Michael Carpenter filed a complaint in state court de­manding IP pay $704,500 for failure to comply with an ear­lier state order to correct haz­ardous waste practices in Jay. "International Paper has re­peatedly and continuously failed to comply with the terms 
Dear Editor: 
Captain Yolanda Huet-Vaughn 
is a doctor and a reservist in 
the U.S. Army Medical Corps. 
She was convicted this summer 
of the charge "desertion with 
intent to avoid hazardous duty," 
and was sentenced to serve 30 
months in jail. According to the 
Central Committee for 
Conscientious Objectors (CCCO), 
she is one of "1000-2500 or 
more who applied or tried to 
apply for conscientious objector 
status" during the Gulf War. 
Her application for conscien­tious objector (CO) status was denied. The government decided that she was "absent without authority" when her medical unit mobilized to the Persian Gulf. As a result, she and other war resisters have been declared "prisoners of conscience" by the international human rights organization Amnesty International. 
The case of Capt. Huet­Vaughn, in particular, should raise serious moral and ethical questions for Notre Dame stu­dents who have entered the military or who consider it as a possible option for the future. Moreover, we must ask our­selves if our university is com­plicit in the business of keeping prisoners of conscience as it of­fers the military such a promi­nent position on campus. 
The duty to ask (and answer) these questions is especially onerous for those of us who consider ourselves to be a part of a Christian tradition with a long history of radical social critique dating all the way back to Jesus' Sermon on the Mount. The U.S. Catholic Bishops in their pastoral letter entitled, "The Challenge of Peace: God's Promise and Our Response" af­firmed the paramount impor­tance of conscience when they declared, "Moral principles are effective restraints on power only when policies reflect them and individuals practice them." 
The Military Selective Service Act, the law which adjudicates claims for CO status, does not currently offer any legal re­course to a person who decides at the outset of a particular military conflict, such as the in· vasion of Panama or the Gulf War, that they are conscien­tiously opposed to participation in that particular conflict. This is known as "selective" consci­entious objection. 
y t ose persons o, "based upon religious training and belief," are "opposed to war in any form" (emphasis mine) will be exempted from military service. There is a qualifying statement in the law which specifically rejects claims based upon what are deter­mined to be "essentially politi­cal. sociological or philosophical views or merely a personal moral code." 
U.S. law employs a much more restrictive set of guidelines to determine the validity of CO claims than those proposed by international agencies, such as Amnesty International, who in­clude "religious, ethical. moral, humanitarian, philosophical, political or similar motives" as legitimate basis for a claim. 
In "The Challenge of Peace," the U.S. Catholic bishops teach that "a citizen may not casually disregard his [or her] country's conscientious decision to call its citizens to 'legitimate defense."' However, they clearly decry the compulsion of the State to "demand blind obedience," especially in times of war, when history shows that the State musters all of its coercive forces to support the war effort. They "insist upon respect for and legislative protection of both classes of conscientious objectors." 
Recently Ron Dellums of Cali­fornia introduced a bill in the House of Representatives enti­tled the "Military Conscientious Objector Act of 1992." The standard for discharge of mili­tary duties stated in. this docu· ment is conscientious opj)osi­tion based on "sincerely held moral, ethical, or religious be­liefs to participation in war in any form or. . . in a particular conflict." 
It is a matter of utmost im­portance to us as Catholics that our right to object to a particu­lar war is recognized by the of the consent order," said Carpenter. "Their blatant dis­regard of the terms in the order forced us to take action to protect public health and the environment." 
UPIU has documented that in the last year alone, IP has been forceed to pay nearly $4 million in fines and clean-up costs to federal, state, and local gov­ernments. 
IP cares for its workers little more than it cares for the envi­ronment. UPIU states, "IP is listed as the fifth worst violator of OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration) regulations of any corporation in the last 13 years." The com­pany was cited by OSHA for safety and health hazards in nine U.S. cities. The safety problems resulted in a death in Texarkana, Texas. Also, on Oct. 29, the U.S. Department of Labor fined IP $803,000 for 96 safety and health violations at its Moss Point, Mississippi paper mill. 
It seems clear that IP is more interested in short-term profits than in respecting workers rights or the environment. The Board of Directors at IP, of which Jane Pfieffer is a mem­ber, is directly responsible for the way that corporation is run. 
The Board of Trustees is meeting this Thursday and Friday at the Center for Continuing Education. A 
demonstration sponsored by Democratic Socialists of America ND/SMC will be held at noon on Friday in front of the CCE. Please come to show that we want Notre Dame to have nothing to do with International Paper Company Company. 
David Brach John Kinney Anne Delaney Kelly Flynn Catherine Sheehy Kelly Gartland Amanda Clarke Amy Eckert Feb.4,1992 
Editor's note: All claims are those of the United Paperwork­ers International Union and not necessarily ofThe Observer. 




resses conscientious objectors 
law. ent y. however, 
law forbids and severely pun­
ishes such expression of con­
science. The case of Dr. Yolanda 
Huet-Vaughn illustrates this 
perspicuously. 
While it is true that Captain Huet-Vaughn did apply for CO status, she did so a significant length of time after she refused to go with her unit the Persian Gulf. Early in the conflict during a public news conference. described herself as not op­posed to all wars but specifi­cally to the U.S. military inter­vention in the Gulf. She was a "war resister," a selective con­scientious objector, until she made an official CO claim. 
Her reasons for resisting are fairly plain: she anticipated the near catastrophic environmen­tal destruction and multitudes of innocent dead, as well as other serious issues. Her press statements. in December (over a month before Desert Storm began), foreshadowed the U.N. investigative team's report which described Desert Storm's effects upon Iraq, in March, as "[having] wrought near-apoca­lyptic results upon the economic infrastructure of what had been...a rather highly ur­banized and mechanized soci­ety." 
Her trial defense made very little appeal to her pending claim as an objector to all wars. They attempted to prove the legal basis for "selective" conscientious objection by ap­pealing to international law. Dr. Francis A. Boyle, a distin­guished authority on interna­tional law, testified as an expert witness during Capt. Huet­Vaughn 's pre-court-martial hearing. He offered that U.S. domestic law recognizes inter­national laws as "binding on all courts, whether civilian or mili­tary, anywhere in the United States of America." 
The basis for this assertion is 
Article VI of the U.S. Constitu­
tion and subsequent Supreme 
Court decisions which recognize 
treaties and other forms of in­
ternational law as the highest 
law of the land. And the Uni­
form Code of Military Justice 
recognizes these same princi­
ples. 

Consider the Nuremberg 
principles which U.S. law rec­
ognizes as binding in all courts; 
they clearly state that the wan­
ton devastation of a city. tar­
geting civilians and using 
weapons of mass destruction 
are all war crimes. It is impos­
sible to deny that these things 
happened at the hands of U.S. 
soldiers in Iraq and Kuwait if 
you base your opinions on any 
form of media which reports 
independently of Pentagon con­
trol. · 

According to Nuremberg principles, all citizens are given the responsibility not to coop­erate with an authority which would have one participate in committing war crimes. To claim, as many Nazi officers at­tempted, that one was merely "following orders" is no de­fense. Her lawyers argued that Dr. Yolanda Huet-Vaughn was faithful to her responsibilities under international law. 
Her defense argued further that Capt. Huet-Vaughn had good reason to believe that war crimes would be committed by the U.S. military forces before the bombing ever started. This conclusion is an easy one to draw if one considers the past record of the U.S. military. 
It has systematically perpe­trated crimes in every armed conflict in which it has been in­volved beginning with World War 1: chemical weapons usage; ignoring diplomacy; nuclear weapons usage and threats of usage; targeting civilian population centers; and so on. This indictment includes our most recent endeavors in Panama: Operation Just Cause, in which stealth fighters were used to bomb defenseless neighborhoods around General Noreiga's headquarters, killing thousands of innocent civilians. All of this is documented in the public record, sometimes glee­fully. 
These are the things which began to trouble the conscience of Capt. Huet-Vaughn once our President began issuing orders for hundreds of thousands of troops as well as nuclear 
weapons to mobilize to the Per­
sian Gulf. These issues formed 
the legal basis for her refusal to 
participate. 
Those who adjudicated her case took note of all of these things and more. The man who recommended that her case proceed to court-martial said, in his written opinion, "based on this interpretation [of inter­national law] any soldier might come to either some profound, genuinely sincere belief, conversion, or morally reasoned position that a war is immoral, abhorrent or incompatible with that soldier's beliefs and con­victions .... Thus, the individual­istic, subjective state of mind could dictate the inclination of the fighting force to be com­batants or not. Havoc would reign." 
During the court-martial, the "international law defense" was disallowed and she was swiftly, surgically convicted. Her conviction came as no surprise, really; because of the necessarily authoritarian structure of a military system, dissent will never be tolerated. Recently, organized efforts on her behalf have resulted in her sentence being reduced from 30 to 15 months. 
Now ask yourselves, you who consider entering the military for the scholarship, or for whatever valid reason: If you simultaneously would wish to call yourself a Christian of deep moral beliefs, are you willing to accept the possibility of impris­onment, harassment, threats, even physical violence to ex­press those beliefs should the occasion arise that you could not lift a rifle or drop a bomb or assist a wounded soldier in support of what your govern­ment has told you that you must support? 
Ask yourselves the further question: Should a University which proposes to stand for the highest Christian values support so lavishly the military, an institution which blatantly for­bids the free expression of those values and refuses to en­act international legal princi­ples which are a binding part of it's own regulations because of the fear that "havoc would reign?" 
Jon M. Davison Kansas City, MO Class of '90 Jan. 29,1992 



Accent 
Thursday, February 6, 1992 page 13 

Diverse events celebrate different cultures 
By JULIE WILKENS 
Accent Writer 
"By the 21st century, we will make up 50 percent of the work force," said Iris Outlaw, the director of Minority Student Affairs. "People must respect cultural differences and be able to work together. It's sad that Black History Month has only one month to be celebrated. It should instead be a year-long celebration." 
Black History Month, which is a nation-wide celebration of the African-American people and culture, spans the month of February. 
"It celebrates the richness of the African-American in American history. Few people seem to realize that the African­American did not suddenly appear when brought over on the slave ships. The 'African' is still a part of our culture," explained Outlaw. 
Cities throughout the country plan to celebrate through activ­ities, such as displays, perfor­mances and lecture series. 
"The majority of people only know of a few of this country's most famous African­Americans," said Outlaw. "Almost anyone can name Harriet Tubman, Martin Luther King, and George Washington Carver. There are so many other African-Americans who have contributed to the worlds of invention, art, science, and education." 
The Notre Dame community is planning a slight twist on Black History Month. "With such a small number of African­Americans at Notre Dame, we have decided to use the entire second semester as a celebration of all cultures. In fact, we plan to use this spring to plan so that next year we can begin right in the fall," Outlaw said. 
Outlaw stressed that the cel­ebration is to include all cul­tures. 
"I prefer 'student groups of color' to 'minority'," she ex­plained. "If there is a talent show, or a student is walking by an auditorium that is filled with laughing, one should be able to go in and enjoy oneself. I hope that white students as well as minority students will feel free to participate. I like to think of this as a cultural enrichment semester." 
The upcoming events are di­verse. There is a lecture in February by Dr. Jawanza Kunjufu on the survival skills of people of color as they move into the 21st century. Also, the Jahari Dancers from Purdue University will be performing in March. 
During Junior Parents Weekend, Schyleen Qualls from The Last Word Productions will be celebrating African-American Literature. "We're inviting any juniors to bring their parents," said Outlaw. 
In April, Victor Villasenor, writer of the award-winning screenplay, "Ballad of Gregorio Cortez," will be lecturing on his new book, "Rain of Gold." 
Despite suffering from dyslexia, Villasenor is now a celebrated novelist and screenwriter. "He will be speaking about his life, with an emphasis on overcoming ob­stacles," explained Outlaw. 
A Martin Luther King Jr. celebration will take place on Feb. 11 at 7 p.m. at Sacred Heart Church. 
The celebration is made up of individual programs featuring performances by the African­American Club, the Hispanic­American Club, the Asian­American Club, and the Irish­American Club. 
The program culminates with a skit featuring the Voices of Faith Gospel Choir and a reading of King by junior Joe Wilson. 
"This celebration of Dr. King and his concept of 'I have a dream' will bring together an ethnicity and a richness of cul­ture," said Wilson. "Basically we're putting on a colorful ex­travaganza through dance, acting, and elaborate costuming. The program will take a unique look at each group's place in history, both past and future." 
Flyers announcing the events are posted in LaFortune and the residential halls along with advertisements in The Observer. 
"It's easy for students to jump into what they already know," said Outlaw. "We're hoping to enrich people in regard to different cultures. This should be a learning semester." 

Exhibit highlights achievements of African-American women 

By JENNIFER SOUKUP 
Accent Writer 
The first panel boldly proclaims "Each of our lives has been affected by the achievements of black women." 
This claim serves as an introduction to "Black Women: Achievement Against the Odds," an exhibit currently on display at Cushwa-Leighton Library at Saint Mary's and will continue to be on displayt until Feb.14. 
This 20 panal exhibit represents the contributions of 120 black women make in the last 200 yers. 
Women portrayed include black poet Phillis Wheatley, who first published a book of verse in 1773; civil rights defender Rosa Parks; Marjorie Lee Brown, one of the first two black women to earn a Ph. D. in mathematics; and Barbara Gardner Proctor, president, founder, and cre­ative director for Gardner "Anti-Slavery," "Reconstruction," "Post-Reconstruction," "Harlem Renaissance" and "Civil Rights" give the exhibit a sense of unity. 
Originally produced by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service in 1982, the project was funded by grants from the Smithsonian Institute Office of Equal Opportunity and Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Association. 
Under the direction of project coordinator Andrea Price Stevens, curator Catherine Bert and editor Katherine Chambers, museum employees researched hundreds of black women in order to decide upon the featured 120. 
The traveling exhibit became so popular that it was subsequently reproduced and made available to humanities groups nationwide. 
The Indiana Humanities Council acquired a copy of the exhibit and it records by those highlighted in the Entertainment section, and a videotape of an interview with Brian Lanker, a photographer and journalist whose portraits of 7 5 black women evolved into both a book and art exhibit entitled "I Dream a World." 
These materials are all part of the library's permanent collection and are available to library patrons. 
Because Saint Mary's lacks the facilities to display all 20 panels at once, the title poster, as well as the poem and timeline will remain throughout the exhibit's stay at Cushwa-Leighton Library. 
The panels devoted to the individual areas of interest will be changed every five days, according to Hohl. 
The exhibit travels to the Leighton Gallery of the Northern Indiana Historical Society, in South Bend on Feb. 16. 
While on display at the museum, Baty, a curator with the Northern Indiana Historical Society. 
At the exhibit's opening on Sunday, Feb. 16, a joint choir consisting of members of several black churches in the area will perform at 2 p.m. in the Leighton Gallery. 
The History Museum, located in the old courthouse in South Bend, will have an exhibit that will run through August and is dedicated to the early black settlers of this area, specifically in Union Township. 
Finally, from March 4-17, an exhibit entitled "Bury Me in a Free Land" will focus on the abolitionist movement in Indiana. 
"Black Women: Achievement Against the Odds" will be on display at Saint Mary's until Feb. 14. Cushwa-Leighton Library hours are 9 a.m. to midnight, Monday­Saturday, and 1 p.m. to midnight on Sunday. 
Advertising, Inc., a firm specializing has been traveling ever since. the historical society has planned While at. the Leighton Gallery, the in marketing to black communities. While at Saint Mary's, the exhibit several programs to further exhibit will be on display from 
A poem entitled "For My People," is supplemented by numerous awareness of the achievements of February 16-27, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. written by Margaret Walker and a books, both written by and black women and the local black Tuesday through Thursday, and timeline divided into periods of concerning the women described, community, according to Catherine Sunday from 12 p.m. to 5 p.m. 
-
~---------~-~---_---------_---.-=--------­
page 14 

Accent 
Thursday, February 6, 1992 




Anlazing Acrobats 
Chinese acrobatic troupe to perform at Notre Dame 

By JENNIFER GUERIN 
Accent Writer 

More than two thousand years ago, imperial courts in China were entertained by performers whose feats seemed to defy the laws of nature. 
Trained from childhood, acrobats demonstrated their ability to perfect amazing athletic stunts and acts of magic by cultivating "Chi," or "life en­ergy." Their skills involved un­believable balance, discipline, and concentration. 
farm families who had little to amuse themselves with during long winters. 
Like their ancestors, today's performers use common props, like cups and saucers, bottles, jars and chairs, for their juggling displays. 
One of the three schools for the arts in Taipei concentrates specifically on cultivating acrobatics and other physical skills. Most , if not all, of the Golden Dragons attend this school as children. 
Through constant exposure and practice, the performers become comfortable with their stunts-so 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community is given the privilege to catch a glimpse of this ancient oriental tradition when the Chinese Golden Dragon Acrobats and Magicians of Taipei come to Washington Hall tonight and Friday. 
The group tours the United States and Canada every year from January until April or May, dazzling crowds with what producer and director Danny Chang describes as the "Chinese style of vaudeville." 
Not only do they offer a glimpse of Oriental culture and traditions so mysterious to Americans, but they also provide entertainment and inspiration to an audience who does not know what to expect upon entering the performance hall. 
Bill Donati of Bill Fegan Attractions in New Mexico, the troupe's national
-booking agent, says "the show is probably, to put it in a word, amaz­ing." 
-
Donati has been working with the group since they began touring the country 13 years ago, and speaks very highly of their show. 
Their accomplishments, he asserts, 
are not only culturally enriching, but also inspirational and entertaining. Balance and concentration dovetail, displaying the potential harmony and power of the human spirit. 
Most of the men and women in the show have grown up in families 
-
whose acrobatic talents have been 
passed down through generations. 
The art originally developed among 
comfortable that the amazing spectacles become almost second nature. 
It is the mind-boggling ease with which they perform, perhaps more than the performance itself, that engages the viewer's imagination. 
Brilliantly costumed in elaborate, homemade apparel, similar in design to that of ancient performers, the women of the troupe dance in a manner audiences have named the highlight of the show. 
More than two thousand applicants answer the advertisement in Taipei requesting performers for each upcoming tour. From these, 40 are chosen to work with the choreographer, and only six accompany the troupe on the world­wide tour. 
The Chinese Golden Dragon Acrobats have received international recognition for both their dancing and stunts. 
Since 1988, the National Association of Campus Activities {NACA) has voted them the "Outstanding Performing Arts Attraction of the Year" every year, an unprecedented honor in the history of the prestigious award. 
This year the troupe comes to Notre Dame for the first time on their annual tour. 
Tickets are $8 for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and $10 for general admission. They are available at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Moliere performed with French llair 

By KEVIN SULLIVAN 
Accent Writer 

Something a little different will be happening at Theodore's Thursday and Friday night when Professor Paul McDowell's French Theater Productions class will be premiering its first play ever, Moliere's "La Critique de l'Ecole des Femmes." 
French Theater Productions met for the first time last fall and began to work on the play during regular class periods, twice a week. Since winter break, however, the group has been meeting every day in preparation for this week­end's performances. 
The play itself is a one­act comedy written by Moliere in the 17th century. McDowell says Moliere wrote the piece in response to critics of an earlier work, "L'Ecole des Femmes." 
" 'L'Ecole des Femmes' was Moliere's greatest public success, but it was very controversial," stated McDowell. 
In "La Critique" Moliere uses the character of Dorante to defend his views of comedy and tragedy against exaggerated figures of the playwright's detractors. Playing the beseiged Dorante will be Notre Dame senior, Kent Olson. 
One problem faced by McDowell and his actors is making a topical 320 year­old play accessible to a contemporary student audience, especially since Olson and the other student actors will be speaking in the original 17th century French of Moliere's time. 
To help solve this problem, McDowell has made some refinements in the production. 
Interspersed in "La Critique" will be scenes from the original "L'Ecole des Femmes." This was done so that the audience has a feel for what Dorante and his adversaries are debating. 
Also, the script has been condensed into a one-hour performance. 
McDowell feels this modified length is appropriate because, "It's long enough so that the audience will get into the language, but not so long that they'll feel stuck to their seats." 
Finally, during the play the group will periodically offer a synopsis in English. "Even students with little backgroud in French shouldn't feel intimidated by the lan­guage, "McDowell said. 
McDowell and his class are hoping for a big turnout for the premier on Thursday at 8 p.m.. McDowell also hopes this production will be the beginning of an annual tradition for this newly created course. 
A reception will follow the performance where the audience can mingle with the actors. Admission to both shows is free, though donations will be accepted. 

..------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------­Thursday, February 6, 1992 The Observer page 15 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from tO a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next.<fay classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

••••••••••••••••••••••..HOWARDLost glasses w/ black case CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED "Dance for Heart" Aerobathon and STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA

NOTICES 
during or alter orgo test 89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50, Health Fair at Stephen Info on semester, year, graduate, HALL SPIRIT WEEK: 
Dave, x2187 87 MERCEDES $100, 65 Center Saturday, Feb. 8th. summer and internship programs in THURSDAY: USED TEXTBOOKS! MUSTANG $50. Choose from Health Fair begins at 10am-Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Meet under the archway at 9pm for Buy & Sell Books thousands starting $25. FREE 24 no admission. Power aerobic Melbourne. Programs start at cocoa, marshmallows, gossip and Pandora's Books PLEASE! Hour Recording Reveals Details workout from 1 -3 with instructor, $3520. Call 1 -800·878-3696. who knows what else I 
............................

3 blks. from NO LOST: RED, HOODED, WITH 801·379·2929 Copyright# Patrick Knowles. 233·234211 0-5:30 M-Sun GREEN LINING POLO JACKET. 1N11KJC Aerobathon is $15 with N.D. 
IF FOUND PLEASE CALL CRAIG ID. Proceeds benefit the SUMMER JOBS VALENTINE GLAMOUR. Give the X3533 American Heart Association. Call ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS best valentine of all YOURSELF! Need any house PAINTING done? x4969 for details and pledge PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS **"* NAZZ '92 ..... GLAMOUR portraits by nationally Experienced, quality painting forms!!! ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR Campus Band festival 

WANTED
published model photographer. at reasonable prices. Call Mark at LAKE PLACID. CALL 1·800-786· coming in March. All Free brochure. Joe Ringer. 287· 277·6578. Vote WILBUR AND GUS for 8373 bands should register 0613. SBP. This is Notre Dame, you now with Barb in Student 
CAMPUS BANDS WANTED TO haven't got any1hing better Government 2nd floor LaFortune. 
AUDITION FOR PROFESSIONAL TICKETS to do. The Lizard King lives on I Down with *"'*"'* NAZZ '92 ...... TYPING AVAILABLE QUALITY MUSIC VIDEO. PLEASE the Crustaceans! 287·4082. CALL 283-371 0 BY FEBRUARY 11. 
Need to buy Dear Stanley, 
NO vs MICH A Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days JUUDEE-The Women's Care Center I need ride to PITI for JPW.will help B-Balltix Could you please give me back $2791 Panama City $99, Padre SO YOU STILL DON'T WANT ME? Pregnancy help Center is holding a wl gas/toll. Tiffany X3861 Pat #3360 my $700 so I can buy a plane ticket $199, Cancun from Chicago $499, THE ONE WHO DIDN'T MAKE training session for volunteer to visit Hilary? Jamaica $399. Call Lance 271· THE BP LIST counselors during the weekend of 1681 or Lisa 283·4667 February 14,15, & 16 on the Notre ND-SMC couple '81 offering FREE Need Mich-ND Thanks, or 1 -800·638-6786. Dame campus. Anyone interested ROOM AND BOARD for part-time tix in a BIG way! should call the Center at 255-4595. summer help with toddlers. Derek X1374 Andy A. JUDY· 
Barrington, IL area. Call 708-428· orx1373 Top ten campaign promises of I DIDN'T KNOW THAT SPANDEX 
1051. Wilbur and Gus: WAS AGAINST THE DRESS Student volunteers wanted to help WHAT ARE YOU DOING FOR 10) W•~'ll get the Pope here for An CODE. ·Y'all KNOW WHO FROM raise money for local pregnancy I Need 2 ND v. UM Basketball VALENTINE'S DAY??II (JPW?) Tostal. 2S. help center. The Women's Care GOING TO CINCINATII FOR JPW Tickets. 283·2067 Don't forget that Irish Gardens in 9) One word: Velveeta! P.S. I LET YOU ORDER THAT Center is holding its annual phone­WEEKEND? I need a ride and will LaFortune has every1hing you need 8) Spelunker will start getting funny. PIZZAII a-than Feb.10·13 & Feb. 17·20 from pay for gas! Call Katie at x2659. FLOWERS (Well, we'll try) 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. We could use your ZACH NEEDS MICH TIXI!I BALLOONS 7) If we don't win, that silly cartoon help any or all nights. If interested X 2374 CARDS about Gus "budding" wil run every please call Michelle at 255-4595 $40,000/YRI READ BOOKS and With easy delivery to both day for the next year! JUDY· 
TV Scripts. Fill out simple campuses. Quality, Convenience, 6) Low-calorie and low-starch meal I THOUGHT MY CLOSET WAS 
"like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun, HELPII I need NO/UCLA B-ball Tix!l and Affordable! We're a student-run options for HPC members. FOR MALE OVERNIGHT GUESTS AVOID THE RUSH & LONG, LONG relaxing at home, beach, vacations. Please call Lynne X26_14 business just for you. 5) Less security on campus (we YOUR FFF RA LINES. Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 need a little excitement around 
SUBMIT YOUR VALENTINE Hour Recording 801 ·379-2925 ALL V-DAY ORDERS MUST BE here). PERSONALS TODAY. Copyright #IN11 KEB NEED TICKETS FOR RECEIVED BY WEDNESDAY THE 4) Weekly nude photos of your STOP IN THE OBSERVER OFFICE NO VS MICHIGAN 12th-BEAT THE RUSH III favorite officer of the University to Let the battle begin. ANYTIME BETWEEN Call Karen -277-5183 be published in the Viewpoint Only 1 01 days left. 
8 AM · 3:30 PM DAILY. YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK HOURS: Mon-Sat. 12:30-5:30 section of The Observer. TO LIVE I DO IT RIGHT! SPRING 3) Big, strapping, hairy hunks will be BREAK IN JAMAICNCANCUN, I NEED 2 MICH TIX hired to patrol the quads and see CLASS/page 20 
ATIENTION: SPRING BREAKERS FROM $429! INCLUDES HOTEL, DAVE 1391 JUDE, distribute love. AIR, TRANSFERS. I DIDN'T THINK YOU'D TAKE 2) "A beer in every fridge and a INTERESTED IN BECOMING A SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426· ME SCREWING YOU OUT OF condom in every dresser" 
~!llRiii1lJm!jJ


PERSONALS
CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE AND 7710. SPRING BREAK TO HEART. 1) Garth Brooks! 
ley Welt StilkJ 

EARNING A FREE TRIP TO THE B·P A.A. 
llliillil tDI cllll 

CANCUN, MEXICO OR A CRUISE 
Get II ,_. 1W1 .-rlY

TO THE BAHAMAS? Summer internships · Average INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
plane tl CIICUI, Mlxlcl

LOOKING FOR ENERGETIC, earnings $4,000.00. University Good rates. Save Money. Call me JUDESTER· FAST EASY INCOME! SOCIAL PEOPLE WHO HAVE AN Directories, the nation's largest for a quote 9:30-6:00, NOT LIKING MY SHOES IS NO Earn 1OO's Weeekly Stuffing INTEREST IN publisher of campus telephone 289· 1993. Office near campus. GROUNDS FOR FIRING ME. envelopes. Send self-addressed 
euc. 8475/ Pille, llltll 

SALES/MARKETING. LOOKS directories, hires over 250 college THE 2N B-P BIRKENSTOCK BABE stamped envelope to: Extra income I 
GREAT ON THE RESUME. students lor their summer P.S.DO YOU HAVE MY SCARF? P.O. Box 811699 Chicago, IL 
Blh11111 Sl781 CNIII

experience in advertising, sales and SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER 60681-1699 CONTACT LANCE@ 271-1681 public relations selling yellow page VACATIONS! 
1111-. City, R. S88/llltll 
DIYblll IJIIQ $2501 Bill, lllrtll

advertising for your campus Jamaica, Bahamas including JUDY· 
telephone directory. Positions also airfare, great hotel, and much more I GUESS I WON'T BE LEAVING SPRING BREAK '92. Day1ona, STUDYING ABROAD NEXT FALL? available in other university from only $599. Buy from the #1 YOU MESSAGES ANY MORE. $149, Cancun $489, Bahamas 
Cll '--ce U1·1 881 

NEED A PLACE FOR SPRING? markets. Expense paid training name you trust for quality vacations. THE B·P GREENTHUMB $449. I'm graduating in December. Take program in Chapel Hill, N.C. FOUR SEASONS Best prices & accommodations my spot in three bedroom apt. at Looking for enthusiastic, goal 1 ·800·331 ·3136. guaranteed!!! 1 (800) 724·1555 or Castle Point. Cheaper than the oriented students for challenging, JUDY· 236·5825 (24 hrs.) "other" places, but much nicer! well-paying summer job. I'M SOOOOOOOOOO SORRY! II II 
Call Paul: 277-5329 Internships may be available. SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS REALLY, I'M SORRY!! Interviews on campus Thursday, London (5/20·6/19) and Rome (REALLY, I AM,sniffle,sniffle) If space and time are curved, where February 13th. Sign up at the (6/14-7/13). Travel in Ireland, BE BACK IN 10, FIRE ME THEN. did all the straight people come
LOST/FOUND Career Center, Hesburgh Library. Scottland, England, France, from? Germany, Switzerland, and Northern Italy. Courses in bio, Thought for the day: When Write GL../SMC for info: Box 194, 

FOR RENT 
FOUND: business, education, history, aluminum cans are left on the coat Notre Dame, IN 46556 Orange bike in Nieuwland Hall photography, poly sci, Italian, soc. hanger, German shepards are left to last semester. Here's the catch· I'm Organizational meeting FEB. 17, trample poor defenseless boa not sure that it is not mine that was FOR RENT: 3 BD HOUSE 1 BTH 6:30 pm, Carroll hall (SMC). For constrictors. Monk: you protect abusive stolen earlier in the year. If you can TRILEVEL ON 5 ACRES. 10 MIN. info call Prof. Black 284-4460 homosexuals and refuse the rights prove that it's yours, call FROM CAMPUS $500.00 MO. 1ST (office) or 272-3726 (home). of Doc @ 234· 1 048 LAST+ SEC. 684-3778. Stop for a moment and think. healthy ones. Could you please 
Do you have any idea who the explain?-Michael 
ADOPT · Devoted father, full-time candidates for SSP really are? Found: scarf in niewland classroom BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY mother seek newborn to join family. Of course not. So vote for your old Lost: hat, green and blue plaid 219·291·7153. We promise your baby love and friend Wilbur, Lord Smell ya call1007 understanding, a good education & of the Apathetic. 
fun. Supportive grandparents. Why isn't your dorm a Sale Haven? 
HOMES FOR RENT Legal. Call Bev & Howard VOTE WILBUR Why isn't your class a Sale Haven? Found: A set of keys on a Notre WALK TO CAMPUS COLLECT 914·235·3917. Why isn't your organization a Safe Dame key chain outside the JACC 232-3616 WRITE IN IS RIGHT ON I Haven? Take care of yourself and last Friday night. To claim call x2963 your friends: do something about itl 
CAMPUS BANDS WANTED TO 6-7 BEDROOM HOME.SECURITY AUDITION FOR PROFESSIONAL To Stickless Hitchhikers: garth brooks is an overrated LOST: Gold chain with half ALARM.FURNISHED.WALK TO QUALITY MUSIC VIDEO. PLEASE Your poetic ability doesn't impress, drugstore cowboy. 
MUSTANG ISLAND 1

heart pendant. Monday CAMPUS.FOA 1992·93.272-6306 CALL 283-371 0 BY FEBRUARY 11 . We are sure your sticks will do less, -Willie, Waylon, and the boys 
POilT AllANSAS ·~· Sf28 

evening between SDH & JACC. C & R, just hurry and confess, 
DOIIT WAir Tit IrS 1'00 &ArE' 

VERY SENTIMENTALIII Or you'll never get the chance to 7TH ANNUAL MR. STANFORD 
Call Ryan x1134. NEED ACCOMODATION FOR JR. George Loves Rachel hear us scream "YES I" CONTEST. FEB 8TH. 7:30 P.M. WEEKEND? 5 MINUTES FROM Tom Loves Mau! E, J, &J WASHINGTON HALL CAMPUS. CALL 233-8745 AFTER Hal TICKETS CAN BE PURCHASED 
Lost: sterling silver ring 5:00. 
AT LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE OR with gold plating on front Let's see more of the POM PON IN STANFORD HALL ROOMS 119 and round blue lapis stone. WHO IS THE REAL LIZARD KING? squad at the b·ball games, instead AND 223 FOR $3.00. ALL Sentimental value. If found, Bed & Breakfast for N.D./ St. Mary's OF COURSE .... IT'S BOSKI! of the Cheerleaders TRYING to PROCEEDS BENEFIT LOGAN please call at X2948. families. 2 bedrooms, private bath. imitate them !I POM PONS are legit CENTER. 


Ten minutes from campus. Safest · Cheerleaders should quit! I IIIII This years' contestants include: neighborhood in area 234-2626. 7 NIGHTS ON SOUTH PADRE 1. Mike Donnino Stolen: From the Rockne, navy FROM $199· CALL JAMES 277-2. Bill Kempf NO nylon sports jacket w/ 9249 BUY SPRING BREAK TRIPS NOW 3. Kevin Monahan

FOR SALE 
gold sleeves, leprechaun to Bahamas, S. Padre, Cancun, 4. Joel Link 
patch, ND lettering, and Panama City, or Jamiaca 5. Chris Peterson wallet and keys. Valuables IT'S NOT TOO EARLY TO SUBMIT From LISA at x4667. sorely needed returned. No Mac Classic 2MB I 40 MB HD YOUR VALENTINE PERSONALS. Trips are selling FAST! 
questions asked, no grudges held. Word 4.0 & More Software COME IN ANYTIME DAILY Don't be left out II Reward. Call Steve 1131. Brand New $1200 or best off. BEFORE 3:30 PM AND AVOID THE Chuck x3677 LAST MINUTE LINES. 
JASMINE GROOVE LOST: Plastic I.D. Case with FRIDAY AT CLUB 23 Driver's License, Sr. Bar Card, and macintosh plus, printer, &software. Vali-Dine. If found, please call $600. YOU'RE GONNA VOTE FOR A A "101 DAYS WAR CELEBRATION" Michelle X1280. 287-7928 RAT FOR SSP ANYWAY, WHY 
NOT VOTE FOR SOMEONE WITH 
A LIFETIME OF EXPERIENCE? hey nil Found: 2 dorm keys in North quad, near dining hall. Call Joe x1153 to S M E A R look! smear play songs VOTE WILBUR/GUS identify. at Club 23 tonight. FORSBP Yippee 
COME CHEER ON YOUR  
FAVORITE STUDS Ill michael · bologna sandwiches and  
beef jerky, that's what I've seen tor  
15 years · monk  American Red Cross  
Yahoo  
There are enough weasels in student government -it's time for a rat. VOTE WILBUR/GUS FOR STUDENT BODY PRESIDENTNICE-PRESIDENT  

-

SCOREBOARD
page 16 Thursday, February 6, 1992 
NBA STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS 
1992 NJJ Football Recruits 
EASTERN CONFERENCE WALES CONFERENCE Atlantic Division Ps1rlck Divialon
These players signed or were expected to sign football leners of Intent with Notre Dame: 
w L Pet GB L10 St.....k Home Away Coni w L T Pta GF GA New York 29 16 .644 7·3 Won 1 17-5 12·11 21-11 NY Rangers 35 17 2 72 210 171 Boston 28 18 .609 11/2 7-3 Won 1 19-6 9-12 17-13 Washington 30 19 4 64 223 180
Jeremy Akers, 6-6, 260, DT, Washington, D.C., St. Albans HS 
Philadelphia 23 24 .489 7 7-3 Lost 1 16-9 7-15 15·17 New Jersey 26 17 7 59 194 156 
Joe Babay, 6-3, 215, LB, Louisville, Ky., Trinity HS 
Miami 23 25 .479 71/2 6·4 Won 1 18-6 5·19 16-15 Pittsburgh 26 21 6 58 232 204 New Jersey 19 27 .413 10 112 4-6 Lost 6 13-11 6·16 10-17 NY Islanders 20 24 7 47 195 206
Pete Chrypiewicz, 6-5, 235, TE, Sterling Hts., Mich., Stevenson HS 
Washington 15 30 .333 14 1-9 Lost 1 7-16 8-14 8-21 Philadelphia 17 25 10 44 152 179 
Ben Foos, 6-4, 220, DE, Louisville, Ky., Trinity HS 
Orlando 12 35 .255 18 4-6 Won 1 Adame Dlvlelon 7-15 5-20 8-19 Montreal 32 20 4 68 175 135
Paul Grasmanis, 6-3, 255, DL, Jenison, Mich., HS 
Cantrall Division Boston 26 19 8 60 184 176 
Chicago 39 9 .813 6-4 Lost 2 21-2 18-7 24-3 Buffalo 21 22 10 52 192 189 
Cleveland 31 13 .705 6 7-3 Won 4 19-4 12·9 24-7 Hartford 15 26 8 38 151 175 
Anthony Jones, 6-5, 251, DE, Oak Lawn, Ill., Richards HS 
Adam Kane, 6-5, 245, OL, Mishawaka, Ind., Mishawaka, Ind., Penn H 
Detroit 27 20 .574 11 112 6-4 Won 3 • 15-9 12-11 16-14 Quebec 12 33 6 30 155 212 
Atlanta 23 23 .500 15 4-6 Lost 3 14-8 9-15 11-15 Milwaukee 21 24 .467 16 112 4-6 Lost 1 16-6 5-18 13-15 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Thomas Knight, 6-4, 230, DE, Memphis, Tenn., East HS 
Will Lyell, 6-5, 255, OL, Brandon, Miss., HS 
Indiana 18 29 .383 20112 4-6 Lost 1 13-10 5-19 10-17 Norris Division 
Charlotte 13 33 .283 25 2-8 Won 1 w L T Pta GF GA 9-14 4·19 9·19 Detroit 29 16 8 66 218 175 
Brian Magee, 5-11, 195, RB-DB, Largo, Fla., HS 
Alton Maiden, 6-4, 230, DE, Dallas, Texas, Carter HS 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Chicago 24 20 10 58 175 161 
Midwest Division St. Louis 22 22 9 53 182 184 w L Pet GB L10 st..... k Home Away Coni Minnesota 22 25 4 48 166 179
Derrick Mayes, 6-2, 190, WR, Indianapolis N.Central HS 
Mike McCullough, 6-3, 272, LB-RB, Chaska, Minn., HS 
Utah 31 17 .646 8-2 Won 4 20-2 11-15 18-7 Toronto 17 31 5 39 144 194 
San Antonio 27 18 .600 21/2 7-3 Won 5 16-5 11-13 18-11 Smythe Dlvlalon Houston 25 21 .543 5 5-5 Lost 1 16-7 9-14 14-10 Vancouver 30 14 8 68 186 149
Steve Misetic, 6-5, 265, OL, Wilmette, Ill., Loyola Academy 
David Quist, 6-5, 245, DT, Boulder, Colo., HS 
Denver 17 28 .378 121/2 3-7 Lost 4 14-11 3-17 10-20 Winnipeg 22 22 11 55 169 165 
Dallas 13 33 .283 17 1-9 Lost 7 8-16 5-17 8-18 Edmonton 22 26 7 51 198 207 
Minnesota 8 38 .174 22 1-9 Lost 1 Los Angeles 20 21 11 51 182 195
Wade Smith, 6-4, 180, QB, Garland, Texas, HS 
Cliff Stroud, 6-3, 250, OL-DL, Natrona Hts, Pa., Highlands 

6-18 2·20 6-23 Calgary 21 24 7 49 194 187 
Pllclftc DIVIsion San Jose 12 37 4 28 135 233 Portland 31 14 .689 8-2 Lost 1 20-5 11-9 14-10 Bill Wagasy, 6-2, 235, LB, Sprinfleld, Mo., Glendale HS Golden State 29 14 .674 1 6-4 Losl 1 14-7 15-7 19-10 Wednesday'• Gemea 
Bobby Taylor, 6-4, 190, DB, Longview, Texas, HS 
Phoenix 32 16 .667 1/2 7-3 Won 3 2Q-3 12·13 20·8
Leon Wallace, 6-5, 245, TE, Euless, Texas, Trinity HS Late GernH Not lncl..-d
LA lakers 27 18 .600 4 6-4 Lost 2 15-7 12-11 17-12 Renaldo Wynn, 6-3, 220, LB, Chicago, DeLaSalle HS Seattle 24 24 .500 8 112 4-6 Won 2 12-10 12-14 14-11 
Detroit 4, Washington 1 N.Y. Rangers 4, Pittsburgh 3 

LA Clippers 22 24 .478 9 112 4-6 Won 2 16-8 6-16 12-16
Dust Zie ler 6-7 250 OL Effin ham Ga. S rin field HS Toronto 3, Minnesota 2, OT
Sacramento 15 31 .326 16112 5-5 Won 1 12-9 3-22 7-21 
The Observer 1Erlc Kreidler Edmonton 2, Montreal 1 Quebec al Calgary, (n) Tueedlly'a GernH Thursday's Gemea 
Chicago at San Jose, (n) 

TRANSACTIONS Thursday's GernH
New York 122, Miami 91 Houston at New York, 7:30 p.m. 
Charlotte 115, Washington 99 New Jersey at Washington, 7:30 p.m. 
Boston at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. BASEBAU BOSTON CELTiCS-Activated Dee Brown, New Jersey at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m. 
San Antonio 95, Portland 88 Golden Stale at Charlotte, 7:30 p.m. 
Amerlc:8n u.g.. guard. from the injured list. LA Clippers 97, Dallas 80 Orlando at Atlanta, 7:30 p.m. HartfOrd at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. BALTIMORE ORIOLEs-Agreed to terms with Detroit at Cleveland. 7:30 p.m. N.Y. Islanders al Vancouver. 10:35 p.m. Mark Parent. catcher, and Mark Mclemore, FOOTBAU 
Wednesday'e GernH Denver at Milwaukee, 8:30 p.m. infielder, on minor-league contracts. r.tlonlll Footbllll Leeg,. 
Lete GernH Not lncl..-d Portland al Dallas, 8:30 p.m. CALIFORNIA ANGELs-Agreed to terms with BUFFALO BILLS-Signed Steve Christie, 
Seattle 95, New Jersey 85 Indiana at San Antonio, 8:30p.m. Junior Felix, outfielder, on a one-year contract. placekicker. 
Cleveland 110, Philadelphia 108, OT SEATTLE MARINERs-Agreed to terms with GREEN BAY PACKERs-Named Kent Johnston 
Miami 126, Golden State 124 Friday's GernH Grag Briley, outfielder, on a one-year contract. strength and conditioning coach. 
Detro~ 1 02, Milwaukee 94 No games scheduled 
N.tlon8l LNgue KANSAS CITY CHIEFs-Named lynn Stiles 
Boston 98, Houston 85 ATLANTA BRAVES-Agreed to terms with consultant to the player personnel department 

Orlando 109, Minnesota 102 Saturday's GernH Tommy Gragg. outfielder. on a one-year contract. LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Named Ronnie 
Phoenix 126, Chicago 114 No games scheduled PITTSBURGH PIRATEs-Named Ted Simmons Jones linebackers coach. 
LA Clippers at LA Lakers. (n)

general manager. MINNESOTA VIKINGS-Named Tom Moore 
Utah at Sacramenlo, (n) Sunday's Geme 
ST. LOUIS CARDINALS-Named Mike wide receivers coach and Richard Solomon outside 
All Star Game al 011ando, 3:30 p.m. Jorgensen director of player development linebackers coach. SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS-Named Dwaine BASKETBAU Board defensive line coach and Eric Wright NlltloNII Buklllbell Anoc18tlon defensive back coach. NBA-Suspended Michael Jordan, Chicago Bulls guard, for one game without pay and fined him TENNIS $5,000 for bumping a referee during a game on TEAMTENNis-Announced that Vail, Colo., has Feb.3. been awarded a franchise for the 1992 season. 


-
.... 

Thursday, February 6, 1992 The Observer page 17 
Rocket 
continued from page 24 
twenty-two. The CFL All-Star led the league in all-purpose yardage in his rookie campaign. In addition, he has been living on his own in a foreign country for most of the last year. But, Rocket admits he has grown up a lot in his time away from Notre Dame. 
"I did mature a lot because a lot of times I would wish my fa­ther was alive. Just to have someone there, to say 'when I was younger.. .' In Toronto, I would think for hours and real­ize that I had come of age and I have to meet this stuff head on," said Ismail. "You have to go through the fire to feel strong." 

Streak 
continued from page 24 
overtime earlier this season, and is looking for a sweep of the season series and its 16th victory in 21 games. 
The Flyers are led by sopho­more Natalie Hill (12.8 ppg, .822 free-throw percentage) and their inside tandem of se­niors Shannon Potee (12.6 ppg, 
7.5 rpg, 1.1 blocks) and Lisa 
People here in South Bend don't see him as the same guy who was here last year. 
"Now everyone is coming up to me like I'm an old man and asking me for advice," said Ismail. 
Even though he may not have the solutions to anyone's prob­lems, he has learned plenty about fame and fortune. 
"Money is nowhere close to being the answer to every­thing," said Ismail. "I hope people realize that it's not all cookies and cream just because you have a few dollars in your pocket. 
"Everyone has a problem and you want to help everyone, but you can't help everyone. Some people think that fame is every­thing. We had a saying in high school that 'Fame is a vapor.' I want to have security and to be 
Green (10.3 ppg, 6.8 rpg). Junior Julie Arnold (10.4 ppg, 
6.2 rpg) also provides inside muscle for Dayton. 
Notre Dame's turnaround has been sparked by its dominance on the boards, as well as an improved shooting eye. In their last two victories, the Irish have outrebounded their opponents 47-29, while hitting over 54 percent from the field in downing Detroit Mercy and Loyola. 
Senior Comalita Haysbert 
(11.3 ppg, 5.2 rpg) has also come alive recently, coming off the bench to provide 31 points able to support my family." 
For Rocket, the fame has not evaporated yet. Despite his jump to Canadian football, he still is recognized and revered around the United States. 
"There's always one Notre Dame fan somewhere," ac­knowledged Ismail. Even in populous New York City where people are so focused on where they are going that they don't actually look at you, Rocket was recognized several times. 
As he settles back into the swing of things under the Dome, Rocket is adjusting to life as a student. During the press conference, the head coach of the Toronto Argonauts called to check up on Rocket. He wanted to know if Ismail was doing his homework and eating right. 
Just like everyone else. 
on 15-of-21 shooting in the two victories. Fellow senior Margaret Nowlin continues to lead the Irish in scoring (17 .1), rebounds (9.6), and field-goal percentage (.557). 
Sophomore Kara Leary, get­ting added playing time with the season-ending loss of freshman Audrey Gomez, chipped in a career-high 10 points and 10 assists against Loyola in only her second start ever. Fellow sophomore Kristin Knapp (5.0 ppg, 3.8 rpg) has also stepped into the starting lineup recently and made solid contributions. 

Random 
continued from page 24 
while he is trying to compensate for Tower's absence on the boards. 
"With Keith out I am trying to get to the offensive glass more," Ellis said. "I've been pretty successful doing it so I am going to continue to do so." 
Sweet, like any sharpshooter, is going to have off nights, and Bennett is a point guard. He should not have to take 29 shots and score 38 points to keep his team in the game. 
MacLeod would like to get more production from the rest of the team. 
"I'd like to see Billy Taylor get on track, and I'd like to get more points from the bench. We need that to be successful." 
One change MacLeod plans to make on Sunday against Michigan is inserting Joe Ross in the starting lineup and using Jon Ross off the bench. 
"Joe has been playing good defense inside, and he played well against Duke and Detroit," MacLeod said. 
"I never worry about the ones we don't get," said Holtz. "I 
continued from page 24 don't even think twice about it. If somebody doesn't come to Notre Dame, that's their mis­take. 

Recruits 
remained optimistic about the team's future stars. 
Jon Ross had played well as the starting center, but has been plagued by foul trouble. He has fouled out of both games which he has started. Coming off the bench he might 
be  able  to  avoid  the  foul  
problem,  while  still  
contributing to the team.  

"Coach MacLeod expects my brother and me to rebound, run the floor, box out and play defense; anything more is extra," Jon said. "He wants me to take the open jump shot if it is there; however, he also wants me to use common sense." 
With a healthy Keith Tower, the Irish were improving al­most every game, and post­season play was beginning to look more like reality than a dream. An NCAA or NIT bid is still not out of the question, but to receive one Notre Dame will have to pull off a couple of upsets and cannot afford any more losses to inferior teams. 
In order for this to happen, someone, whether it be Taylor, the Ross brothers or someone off the bench, is going to have to give the "trifecta" some scoring support and prove AI McGuire wrong. 

BY ROBERT HARLING 

Elec~ons will soon be held for the positions ofPresident and Executive Vice­President of the Graduate Student Union for the 1992-93 academic year. 
All graduate student are eligible.  •  
Deadline for submission of application: February 21  
Elections: Mid-March  
•  Letters of application s_hould include names, phone numbers, and on-campus addresses of both candidates on the ticket, and should be sent to:  
Elections Committee Graduate Student Union 220 LaFortune  
The following appointed positions will also be open:  
Vice-President for Administration Secretary Social Officer Information Officer  •  
Send letters of application for these positions to the same address.  
If ~~ou have any questions, stoo bv the GSU office or call 239-6963 ••••••••••••••••••••••• •  

~o\~··· 




~\~~"~ 


The meeting for all interested in 
o~~ss orr1o~ 
will be held at 
7:30PM l 

(instead of 7:00 pili) on -• 
f~1)FlJ~FY 61711!!! 
Notre Dame Room La Fortune 
-
-
page 18 The Observer Thursday, February 6, 1992 
Blue Devils, Cowboys and Razorbacks lose upsets 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. (AP)­Christian Laettner missed two potential game-tying shots in the final seconds Wednesday as No. 9 North Carolina knocked off No. 1 Duke 75-73, ending the nation's longest winning streak at 23 games. 
The loss by Duke, combined with No. 2 Oklahoma State's loss at Nebraska, left no unde­feated Division I teams. 
Derrick Phelps hit two foul shots with 44.5 seconds re­maining to give the Tar Heels a two-point lead. 
The Blue Devils, trying to work the ball for the last shot, got the ball to Laettner, but he missed an inside one-bander over Eric Montross with 24 seconds left. 
Duke recovered and tried once more, but Laettner missed again and Phelps came away with the rebound, dribbling into the corner and preserving the victory. 
Hubert Davis led North Carolina with 16 points. Montross and Kevin Salvadori had 12 and Brian Reese 10. 
Brian Davis Jed Duke with 17 points. Thomas Hill had 16, Laettner 12, Bobby Hurley 11 and Grant Hill 10 for the Blue Devils. 
North Carolina also snapped Duke's Atlantic Coast Conference regular-season winning streak at 11 games. 
The Tar Heels (16-3, 6-2) opened the second half with 10 straight points but Duke kept the game close. 
As the second half wound down, North Carolina had to rely on free throw shooting, and came through by making 12 of 14 in the stretch. 
The Blue Devils missed their first four shots in the second half and committed five turnovers in five minutes. 
Duke (17 -1, 8-1) had its best run early in the game, a 9-0 stretch that turned an 11-7 deficit to a 16-11 edge. 
The Tar Heels clawed their way back, taking a 20-19 lead on a three-point play by Hubert Davis at 9:27. The lead would be exchanged ten more times down the stretch before Thomas Hill connected on a jumper from the right baseline with two seconds left before in­termission for a 39-38 edge. 
Nebraska 85, #2 Oklahoma St. 69 LINCOLN, Neb. -Nebraska 
point guard Jamar Johnson picked the perfect night for his best performance in a Cornhusker uniform. 
The sophomore from Elkhart, Ind., who sat out last season under the NCAA's Proposition 48 rule, scored a career-high 25 points and handled the ball against Oklahoma State's pres­sure defense to lead Nebraska to an 85-69 upset of the No. 2 and previously unbeaten Cowboys. 
"I thought he was brilliant, domineering. I think that's the kind of player Jamar is," Nebraska coach Danny Nee said. "I think he has the poten­tial for this high level of play every night. And he did it against great players." 
Johnson said his major con­cern coming into the game was hanging onto the ball against the tough man-to-man of Oklahoma State. 
"I had time to think last night, before I went to bed, that I was not going to pass the ball and turn it over. I was going to keep dribbling and make the pass," Johnson said. "I was in the flow tonight. There was no mismatch with either of their guards. We're all about the same size." 
Johnson, who hit 7 of 8 free throws, led a Nebraska parade to the charity stripe where the Huskers hit 25 of 31 shots for the game, 21 of 25 in the sec­ond half. 
"I could tell when I looked at the guys at the line we were re­ally confident," said forward Eric Piatkowski, who was 6 for 6 from the line. "At times, we're not as confident, we just throw the ball up and hope it goes in. We really wanted to win and we had to make those shots to have a chance." 
The Huskers (15-4, 3-3 Big Eight) trailed 5-0 early, then opened an 18-11 lead with 
11:30 remaining in the first half. The Cowboys (20-1, 4-1) repeatedly cut the Nebraska lead to one or two points before a 5-0 flurry gave OSU a 28-27 lead with 2:53 left in the first half. 
But Johnson, who played at Concord High School, hit a 3­point field goal 15 seconds later and the Huskers never trailed again. 
Tennessee 83, #5 Arkansas 81 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. (AP) ­Tennessee coach Wade Houston almost forgot what he was do­ing Wednesday night, poten­tially bad timing since his team was in the midst of a heart­stopper with the nation's fifth­ranked team. 
"This was a great basketball game. Sometimes it's kind of tough to just stay on the side­line and coach when you're watching so many talented ath­letes on the floor," Houston said after the Vols had upset No. 5 Arkansas 83-81. 
Allan Houston scored the winning basket with 43 seconds left and made it stand up by blocking Todd Day's 3-point at­tempt with 10 seconds left. 
"We thought they'd try to win the game with a 3-point shot as opposed to going for a two. You have to respect them for that, because they were going for the win," Wade Houston said. "I thought Allan did a good job reacting to the shot and was able to get a hand on it. It was a big play." 
Houston's 10-footer in the lane broke an 81-81 tie forged with a long 3-pointer by Arkansas' Lee Mayberry with a minute remaining. 
Arkansas (17 -4, 6-2 in the Southeastern Conference) had one last chance to tie or win, inbounding the ball under its own basket with 16 seconds left. After Houston blocked Day's 3-point attempt to set off a mad scramble at half court, the Razorbacks' Robert Shepherd came up with the ball but missed a 12-footer and Day missed a tip attempt. 
"We were able to retrieve the ball and we made a great pass to Shepherd, he missed a little chip shot, and it was kind of typical of our night," Arkansas coach Nolan Richardson said. 
Celtics overwhelm Rockets; Heat burn Warriors 126-124 
BOSTON (AP) -Reggie Lewis had 22 points and 11 rebounds and the Boston Celtics cele­brated the return of guard Dee Brown with a 98-85 victory over the Houston Rockets on Wednesday night. 
Hakeem Olajuwon had 24 points and 10 rebounds for the Rockets, while Otis Thorpe added 20 points and 12 re­bounds. Robert Parish scored 21 points and Ed Pinckney grabbed 16 rebounds for the Celtics. 
Trailing 47-43 at the half, the Celtics outscored the Rockets 27-14 in the third quarter, in­cluding an 8-0 streak that snapped a 56-56 tie, giving Boston a 64-56 lead with 4:09 remaining. 
Brown, out for the season with a knee injury, saw his first action when he replaced Lewis with 7:35 remaining in the half. He finished with seven points in 11 minutes, including a three­point play that completed the Celtics' big third quarter. 
Heat 126, Warriors 124 
MIAMI -Glen Rice scored 33 points, including a tie-breaking 3-pointer with 14.1 seconds left, helping Miami beat Golden State for the first time in nine tries. 
The Heat extended their fran­chise-record home winning streak to seven games and im­proved to 23-25, easily the best All-Star break record for the fourth-year franchise. In fact, the Heat have never won more than 24 games in one season. 
Rony Seikaly and Willie Burton each had 28 points for Miami. Seikaly also had 16 re­bounds. 
Chris Mullin scored 26 points and Tim Hardaway had 22 points and 15 assists for the Warriors. 
Cavs 110, 76ers 1 08--0T 
PHILADELPHIA -Larry Nance scored 26 points, includ­ing a short jumper with seven seconds left in overtime for Cleveland against Philadelphia. 
Mark Price scored 22 points and Brad Daugherty had 19 points and 12 rebounds as the Cavaliers won their fourth straight game and sixth of seven. 
Hersey Hawkins led the 76ers with 31 points, while Charles Barkley had 30 points, 18 re­bounds and nine assists. 
Cleveland trailed 102-97 with 53 seconds left in regulation, but Price made two free throws and a 3-point shot to force the overtime. 
SuperSonics 95, Nets 85 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J ­Ricky Pierce scored six of his 19 points in a 14-4 second-quarter spurt that gave Seattle the lead for good over New Jersey. 
The win capped a 4-2 road trip for the Sonics and ruined a homecoming for the under­manned Nets, coming off an 0-5 road trip. 
Pistons 102, Bucks 94 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -Joe Dumars scored 20 of his 24 points in the second half, carry­ing Detroit past Milwaukee. 
Dumars led six Pistons in double .figures by hitting eight of nine shots in the second half. 
Magic 109, 'Wolves 102 

MINNEAPOLIS Nick Anderson scored 31 points and Stanley Roberts a career-high 23 as Orlando beat Minnesota in a battle of the NBA's two worst teams. 
The Timberwolves, losing for the 12th time in 13 games, led 87-80 before the Magic rallied with a 13-3 surge. Anderson's layup tied the score at 93 as he and Roberts combined for 19 of Orlando's final 21 points. 
We're looking for seniors who like 


working with an kinds ofhardware. 
Careers in data processing, accounting, actuarial, and auditing at State Farm. 
At State Fann, we understand the concept of "work:' Believe it or not, we also_understand the concept of "play:' 
That's because we don't think you can be really outstanding at the first without having an 
appreciation for the second. Which is exactly why a career at State Fann in Bloomington could be the 
ideal place for you. 
-
You'll work for one of the country's most respected companies on the most advanced computer 
equipment in the industry. You'll be challenged and stimulated. You'll be rewarded with excellent pay 
and benefil<;. You'll make your classmates very envious. 
What's more, you'll also have time to appreciate the fmer t.hi!Igs in lif~. That's because ~lo?m­ington isn't just a great place to start a career, it's a great place to live, to enjoy, to start a family (if, 

indeed, you're ready to start thinking about that). In addition to the community's pleasant neighbor­-hoods, inviting parks, and other recreational facilities, you'll fmd two universities that offer a host of cultural and social activities to take advantage of. S v. 
Ifyou're a senior with a math, accounting, data processing, STAll •u• tate.I'ariD or computer science background, come talk to us at your _....fil_ Insurance college placement office. We're looking for people who are GIJIIJ 
. all th INSUIANCI Com am"es
motivated and outgoing. People who enjoy ch enges on e ~ p job -and away from il After all, you're not just looking for a Home Offices: Bloomington, Illinois. great job. You're looking for a great way oflife. An equal opportunity employer. 
Thursday, February 6, 1992 The Observer page 19 
Leading UNLV scorer cleared 
Jordan suspended after 
NCAA restores Rider's eligibility after bail paid in full 
bumping referee in loss 
lAS VEGAS (AP)-J.R. Rider, the leading scorer on the UNLV basketball team, was cleared to play Thursday against UC Santa Barbara after having his eligibility restored by the NCAA. 
UNLV Athletic Director Jim Weaver said the NCAA restored Rider's eligibility after he paid for his bail stemming from an arrest last month and after questions about the car he was driving were resolved. 
"Right now they're satisfied with the information they have on it," Weaver said. 
UNLV on Monday declared Rider ineligible after determining UNLV academic adviser Ron Allen had paid his $200 bail following his arrest on charges of obstructing a police officer. 
Weaver said earlier that if Rider reimbursed the money 
paid for his bail, he would ask the NCAA to reinstate him. 
Rider, who is averaging 20.3 points a game, had continued to practice for the No. 17 Runnin' Rebels, who are 18-2 and are on a 13 game winning streak. 
Weaver said that Rider had to have his eligibility restored by noon Wednesday to travel with the team to the Santa Barbara game. 
"The NCAA staff was extremely cooperative in dealing without request for immediate restoration in a timely fashion," Weaver said in a statement. "I personally want to thank the NCAA staff as well as all members of the UNLV athletic department who have participated in this matter and worked to resolve it in a professional and prompt manner." 
Rider's bail receipt from his Jan. 24 arrest showed the bail was paid by Allen, an academic adviser who came to UNLV the same time Rider transferred to the university. 
Rider had to make bail after he was arrested for obstructing a police officer following an incident near the campus. 
Rider was arrested in the early morning hours of Jan. 24 following a disturbance at a restaurant near the campus. According to police reports, Rider became abusive. Rider said that police harassed him. 
Weaver said the arrest was not a factor and any discipline on that incident could have been handled by Tarkanian. He said the university became involved when it appeared someone else paid his bail. 
PHOENIX (AP) -Michael Jordan, suspended for the first time in his NBA career, wished his teammates well Wednesday and then left for the All-Star weekend. 
Earlier in the day, the NBA finerl Jordan $5,000 and sus­pended him for one game for bumping a referee in Chicago's triple-overtime loss Monday night to the Jazz at Utah. 
The Bulls, minus Jordan, played the Phoenix Suns here Wednesday night. 
Jordan, who played golf Tuesday at the Phoenix Country Club, was not available for comment. 
However, Jordan arranged before the six-game road trip to have his private jet fly him from Phoenix to Orlando, Fla., site of the All-Star Game on Sunday, team spokesman Tim Hallam said. 
"I would imagine he's proba­
r ----------------------------------------------,~ 
bly going straight to Orlando," 
Hallam said. "I think his family was coming down for the game. But that's just my guess." 
/ ' 



'[he Obseoer_ 
Scottie Pippen, the team's other top player, said Jordan visited most of the players in
Applications are now being 
their rooms after he got the news. 
"He basically said, 'See you after the AU-Star break,'" said Pippen, who also will play for 
accepted for the following paid 

positions: 
the East team and coach Phil Jackson on Sunday. 
Pippen said he didn't expect any added pressure despite the loss of Jordan's 29.7-point scoring average, the league's best. 
"I'm just going out there and play my natural game and help my teammates any way I can," said the 6-foot-7 swingman, who is averaging more than 21 points per game. 
The Bulls haven't fared well on the road trip. In a seven­day span, they lost at San Antonio and Houston, beat Dallas and the Los Angeles Lakers and then suffered the demoralizing 126-123 loss to the Jazz. 
Jordan was ejected with one­half second to play after protesting a foul call against him which sent Jeff Malone to the line for the winning free throws. 
The suspension cost him one game's pay -equal to about $40,000. 
"He'll be able to contest it, but we needed him here tonight, and it's not going to help us with this ballgame," Pipp,eti said. 
He said Chicago (39-8) would be happy to get out of the road swing with a 3-3 split. 
The Suns are difficult to beat under any circumstances, Pippen said. Phoenix got ahead by 14 points on Jan. 21 but couldn't hold on, and the Bulls pulled out a 108-102 victory. 
News Editor Sports Editor Accent Editor Viewpoint Editor Saint Mary's Editor Photo Editor Systems Manager 
Advertising Manager What: COLLEGE MENS INDOOR SOCCER
Ad Design Manager Production Manager 
Where: South Bend Turners Indoor 
OTS Director 
53666 Ironwood Road (North of Douglas) 
Controller 
When: Mondays and Wednesdays Late Night 
Art Director 
(10 PM-1:30AM) Signup February 7 through February 11th 
A three-page personal statement and resume must be submitted to  Season Starts Wednesday February 12th  
Monica Yant by 5 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 12. For further information  
or job descriptions, contact Monica Yant at The Observer, 239-5303.  REDUCED COST IS $300.00/TEAM FOR 7 GAMES  
AND TOURNAMENT!  
FOR MORE INFO, CALL 272-5061 AFTER 6:00 PM  


-
-
page 20 The Observer Thursday, February 6, 1992 

The rich get richer in Florida 
Hurricanes, Gators and Seminoles land big recruits 
(AP) -Florida's three college football powers got even stronger Wednesday. 
The University of Florida had the best recruiting class in the country, Miami was second and Florida State was eighth, ac­cording to prep expert Allen Wallace. 
"Florida and Miami are the big winners," said Wallace, publisher of SuperPrep magazine in Costa Mesa, Calif. "Their recruits are cut above everyone else." 
Miami won The Associated Press national championship last season, while Florida State finished fourth and Florida was seventh -the strongest show­ing ever by one state in the final poll. 
If this year's recruits are any indication, the Sunshine State could continue to dominate for many years. 
Florida's freshmen class in­cludes a host of homestate stars. The most prominent are quarterback Danny Wuerffel of Fort Walton Beach; 6-foot-8, 300-pound offensive lineman Reggie Green of Bradenton; fullback Dwayne Mobley of Brooksville and defensive line­men Cameron Davis of Fort Lauderdale, Johnny Church of Fort Myers and Jeff Mitchell of Clearwater. 
SuperPrep rated Green as the top offensive lineman in the country and Mobley as the best fullback. Davis, Church and Mitchell were among SuperPrep's Top 10 defensive linemen and WuerfTel was listed as the No. 11 quarterback. 
The Gators also grabbed an excellent group of out-of-state players on the first national signing day, including lineback­ers James Bates from Tennessee and Dexter Daniels from Georgia. 
Miami's incoming class fea­tures hometown running back Danyell Ferguson and quarter­back Chris Walsh of St. Paul, Minn., brother of former Hurricane star Steve Walsh. Ferguson, one of the nation's most highly recruited running backs, signed with Miami after making an oral commitment to Notre Dame last week. 
"Danyell wanted to stay home and play in South Florida," said Miami coach Dennis Erickson. "We expect that he'll have an opportunity to come in and play for us as a freshman." 
The Hurricanes also signed a trio of talented defensive play­ers from South Florida -Jack Hallmon and Twan Russell from Fort Lauderdale and Tony Coley from Hialeah. 
Florida State stayed in state for its top recruits -quarter­back Danny Kanell of Fort Lauderdale, linebackers Henri Crockett of Pompano Beach, defensive back Todd Rebol of Punta Gorda, all-purpose back Tamarick Vanover of Tallahassee, running back Michael Gibson of Tallahassee and punter Sean Liss of Gulfport. 
SuperPrep ranked Colorado's recruiting class as third best in the nation, followed by Michigan, Texas A&M, Clemson, Notre Dame, Florida State, Texas and Oklahoma. 
Notre Dame signed a superb group of defensive players, in­cluding highly touted back Bobby Taylor of Texas and linemen Anthony Jones of Illinois, Thomas Knight of Tennessee and Mike McCullough of Minnesota. But the Irish failed to get a top quarterback or running back, losing Ferguson to Miami and prized option quarterback Tommy Frazier to Nebraska. 
"They really struck out at the glamour positions." Wallace said. "They put all their eggs in one basket and the basket turned out to be empty." 
Ferguson made a public announcement last week that he would attend Notre Dame. His change of heart angered his coaches at Miami's Columbus 
High  School,  who  have  
approached  Miami  about  
possible rules violations.  

Texas A&M signed 19 of the top 100 prospects in Texas, in­cluding quarterback Corey Pullig of Deer Park and running back Leeland McElroy of Beaumont. But Texas, despite getting a late start under new coach John Mackovic, landed the state's most sought-after player, Shea Morenz. 
Rangers down Pens; extend streak to eight 
NEW YORK (AP) -Adam Graves scored a shorthanded goal at 8:31 of the third period as New York beat Pittsburgh Wednesday night to extend its unbeaten streak to eight games. 
The red-hot Rangers, return­ing home to a roaring capacity crowd of 18,200 following a 4­0-1 road trip, won the playoff­type game with a great perfor­mance from their special teams. 
With the score tied at 3, Graves capped a two-on-one break with former Edmonton teammate Mark Messier with a high shot past Pittsburgh goal­tender Tom Barrasso. 
Red Wings 4, Capitals 1 
DETROIT -Tim Cheveldae stopped 24 shots as Detroit ended a four-game winless streak with a 4-1 victory over the Washington Capitals. 
Bob Probert and Steve 
Yzerman each had a goal and an assist as the Red Wings ended an 0-2-2 streak. Jimmy Carson and Nicklas Lidstrom also scored. 
Leafs 3, Stars 2 

TORONTO -Wendel Clark scored on the two-man advan­tage 18 seconds into overtime to lift Toronto to a 3-2 victory over Minnesota, its fifth victory in six games. 
The North Stars were two men shorthanded to start the overtime after referee Don Koharski called Jim Johnson for roughing with 38 seconds left in regulation and Mark Tinordi for cross-checking at the end of regulation. 
Clark's shot from low in the slot hit North Stars defense­man Craig Ludwig and bounced over goalie Jon Casey, giving Toronto a split on the home-and-home series. 

An American Company Serving America. 
Dick's Marathon 

ONE FllEE TOW TO OUK STAT10M I'OilllUADl 

-
-

Class 
continued from pg. 15 

All those other candidates are darks. Vote for a cool rat and a kidney-shaped martian that gets chicks. Vote Wilbur and Gus for Student Body Prez/VP. 
listen to what the great poets are saying about Wilbur and Gus: 
I have a woody, And its filled to the brim with pus I'll hit you with it if you don't vote for Wilbur and Gus. -William Shakespeare 
Roses are red, Boogers are green. Wilbur eats cheese, IF YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN I -Robert Frost Vote tor them! 

STOP THE DEFAMATION OF POOHIIIII Whoever you are, Honeypot, stop desecrating the sacred name of Winnie the Pooh with your freako bizzare sex fantasies. Tiddley pam, Beth and Emily 


with Mona and her friends? Drop down to 
Italy yet? ICOLE, it's in the bag, I guess that means I Actually see Notre Dame? Get back here, have to hit the road. cause we miss you! You'll be the best and I will be out a roomi. love 
Ann-Marie & Nicole 

P.S. It doesn't get better than E-mail To my favoite Austrian chick. Having fun 
GLACIER NATIONAL PARK, MONTANA 
Come have the best summer of your life. Enjoy the invigorating, challenging experience of living in the awesome Rocky Mountains. 
St. Mary's Lodge and Resort, Glaicer Park's finest, now hiring for the 1992 summer season. Come see us on campus at the Career Placement Services, February 10th and 11th. 
Schedule an interview through your Career Placement Services now. Don't pass up the opportunity of a lifetime. 



LOOK HERE!! 
You can get the "Best Pizza in Town" at "their" price. 
For a limited time if you use a "Domino's" or Papa John's coupon, you can get our pizza at their price. Order now, this offer is too good to last. 
Not valid with any other oHer. Valid for dine in, carry out and delivery. For delivery on the Notre Dome and St. Mary's Campuses, call 232-2499. You must show student I. D. 
Flower Delivery 7 Days 
f'@'S~ .0 ~tth 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square51400 31 North South Ben IN 46637  1219) 277 1291\; • ,._.Aaw•ed Z4 MI.  
•  

STUDENT RATES 
*Tanning Always Available* 


-Cardiovascular Area Ufecycles, Ufesteps, Uferowers, Ufestrlde Treadmill -Over 40 Aerobic Classes per Week -13,000 lbs of Free Weights -Individual Exercise Programs 
CALL NOW 255-8080 
130 W. Edison Rd. Mish, IN 46545 
-~---------------­
Thursday, February 6, 1992 The Observer 
page 21 

Fire in Tyson jurors' hotel kills three, injures twelve 
z INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -A deadly fire early Wednesday at the hotel where Mike Tyson's jurors were sequestered forced a delay of his rape trial. The mayor requested a federal ar­son investigation, and security was increased at the court­house. 
The fire at the Indianapolis Athletic Club killed two fire­fighters and a hotel guest and injured 12. Jurors in night clothes were safely evacuated. 
Hours later, the former heavyweight champion showed up briefly at the City-County Building, where he is being tried on charges of rape and criminal deviate conduct. Tyson, 25, faces up to 60 years in prison if convicted. 
The trial will resume Thursday with the jurors being questioned in chambers by Marion Superior Court Judge Patricia J. Gifford, prosecutors and defense attorneys, court spokesman Joe Champion said. The interviews will determine whether any juror was com­promised while standing on the sidewalk outside the hotel, where all had been shielded from public and press. 
Sheriff's deputies tightened security outside the courtroom, setting up a walk-through metal detector for media and spectators and bringing in a bomb-sniffing dog. The trial judge, Patricia J. Gifford, banned cameras from the sec­ond floor, with the exception of three pool cameras. 
Mayor Stephen Goldsmith re­quested federal arson investi­gators, citing the "unusual co­incidence of the proximity of the jury." 
Two experts from the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms will help with the investigation, Public Safety Director Michael Beaver said. 
The blaze erupted in a lounge and destroyed the third and fourth floors of the seven-story hotel, authorities said. 
The 15 jurors, most with coats thrown over pajamas, were led out of the burning building by two court bailiffs and a sheriff's deputy. They were moved to an undisclosed location. 
"The jurors appeared to be in good spirits, under the circum­stances," Champion said, adding that the jurors were unaware of the deaths. 
Fire Department spokesman Capt. Gary Campbell said eight other occupants and four fire­fighters were injured. 
The hotel, a 72-year-old brick building about five blocks from the courthouse, was cordoned off with yellow "crime scene" tape later in the day. Broken glass littered the sidewalk. 
"The fire does not look sus­picious to us," said Lt. Jerry Bivens, a fire department arson investigator. He said it might have begun near a refrigerator and might have been electrical in nature. 
The prosecution completed its case Tuesday, after calling 20 witnesses, including the 18­year-old Miss Black America contestant who accuses Tyson of rape. 
Tyson has said she consented to sex. The defense has main­tained that the accuser decided to press charges because she was angry about being treated as a one-night stand and hoped to make money from a lawsuit. 

Seattle legislator proposes bill to stop relocation of M's 
OLYMPIA, Wash. (AP) -In another maneuver to keep the Mariners in Seattle, a legislator said Wednesday he wants a law making it easy to sue any sports franchise that moves after a local buyer's offer is rejected due to the bidder's race, color, creed, nationality or residence. 
"The state and its political subdivisions shall have a cause of action for economic damages against any person, corporation, state or other entity responsible for a decision or action or inaction resulting in the wrongful removal of a professional sports franchise from this state," says the measure by House Judiciary Chairman Marlin Appelwick, D­Seattle. 
Damages could include the direct or indirect loss of millions of dollars of tax revenue from the franchise departure, as well as punitive damages of unspecified amounts if defendants "acted in bad faith" in moving the franchise. 
A group of businessmen, led by a Japanese billionaire, has offered $100 million, plus $25 million in operating funds, to buy the Mariners from owner Jeff Smulyan. The baseball team also has been courted by St. Petersburg, Fla. 
Under the deal, Hiroshi Yamauchi, president of Nintendo Co. Ltd. of Kyoto, Japan, would put up $75 million. The team would be run by Yamauchi's son-in-law, Minoru Akakawa, a 15-year Seattle-area resident who is president of Nintendo of America Inc., based in suburban Redmond. 
Several Seattle executives would hold smaller shares. 
Major league franchise owners have balked at approving the sale because of 
the Japanese connection. 
"Let me put it this way," Appelwick said. "There were a significant number of lawyers who participated in assembling the bill. 
"Obviously there were no guarantees it will hold up, but given the amount of revenue involved, it is certainly worth litigating." 
The state, Seattle and others entities affected by a Mariners departure could sue on several grounds, including the question of whether a purchase offer to keep the team in Seattle was rejected due to the nationality or race of the bidder. 
Baseball Commissioner Fay Vincent said Tuesday that club owners have adopted a policy against ownership by non-North Americans. 
Opposition from the baseball establishment "is not Japan­specific. It is not racial," Vincent said. "In my opinion, the transaction as presented would not be approved." 
But Appelwick said the owners' opposition to foreign financial involvement has no logical basis in the Mariners' dispute. 
7th ANNUAL MR. STANFORD CONTEST 
FEB. BTB. 7:30P.M. WASHINGTON BALL 
TICKETS CAN BE PURCHASED AT LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE OR IN STANFORD HALL ROOMS 119 AND ZZ3 FOR $3.00 PROFITS BENEFIT LOGAN CENTER 
THIS YEAR'S CONTESTANTS INCLUDE: 
1. Mike Donnino 

-
2. 
Bill Kempf 

3. 
Kevin Monahan 4.Joe1Link 


-
5. Chris Petersom 
COME CHEER ON YOUR FAVORITE STUDS! 
-~--------------­
!.':~ vt?»'-l :-.;i.;.(...t](, :;~,-j': 
~cc t ,3 '{ii:ii.iide1 ;(sbaiurlT page 22 The Observer Thursday, February 6, 1992 

Magic speaks on All-Star game 
Tells college students that 'the safest sex is no sex' 
RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) -Magic Johnson told an audience of college students Wednesday night that his health dictated his decision to play in Sunday's NBA All-Star game. 
The former Los Angeles Lakers' guard retired from the game last November when he tested positive for the HIV virus, which can lead to AIDS. 
"There have been no problems," Johnson said. "My wife and baby are healthy. I'm looking forward to playing in the All-Star game." 
Johnson, addressing a student gathering at St. Augustine's College, was voted to a starting position by the fans and a 13th position was created for him on the Western Conference All-Star team. 
Johnson's participation in the 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
All-Star game has been criticized by some of his contemporaries. Charles Barkley of the Philadelphia 76ers said he didn't think Johnson should play in the game. 
In a poll of NBA players, 96 of the 132 players asked said they thought Johnson should play in the game. 
Also, Johnson's intentions to play in the Olympics drew fire from the Australians, whose team doctor said his country's players should boycott the Games if they would have to play against Johnson. That position was later contradicted, although the decision has been left to individual players. 
Johnson also delivered his appeal for young people to be wary of the AIDS epidemic. 
"I don't want what happened to me to happen to you," Johnson said. 
Johnson said some in the black community were trying to deny their susceptibility to AIDS. 
"Our community is denying the problem," he said. "We must get out of the denial. 
"No question about it. The safest sex you can have is no sex," Johnson said. "But as I say that, people cringe. But I'm going to say it one more time. The safest sex is no sex." 
Johnson also urged the audience not to be afraid of those suffering from AIDS. 
"You don't have to be scared of them," he said. "Embrace them. Show them love." 
•A 
Cross Country Ski Clinic for beginners is being offered on the golf course by RecSports, today at 4 p.m. Register at RecSports. 

•The 
Bookstore Basketball Tournament is looking for a new head and some assistant commissioners. Anyone interested should pick up an application at the student government secretary's desk on the second floor of LaFortune. Applications are due by Friday, February 7 and interviews will be held on February 10 and 11. Any questions, contact Kevin McGee at 234-5193. 

•Mixed 
doubles tennis social is open to all undergraduate and graduate students. Informal games will be played and you can sign up on an individual basis. The first night will be Monday, February 10 at 9. To sign up, please call Renee Wenger at 283-134 7 by this Friday. 

•The 
Rowing Club has a meeting this Wednesday at 7:30 in room 120 Cushing. Dues and spring break deposits will be collected. 


•ND/SMC 
Equestrian Club: Anyone interested in showing in the Iowa State Show from February 14 to 16 at Peotore, Illinois, please call Larissa at 289-7829. 
•The 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes meets tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Farley. We will be discussing Catholicism and Protestantism Alllare welcome. Call Mark Zoia at 283-1586 for more information. 

•Women's 
Bookstore Basketball will have an organiztional meeting on Wednesday, February 12. Anyone interested in commissioner or assistant commissioner positions is welcome to attend and should call 287-8548 for information on time and place. 

•Good 
golly, let's volley! Sign up now for the 1st annual Sno-Volleyball Tourney to benefit the March of Dimes, February 29 at Outpost Sports. Register now. The $60 team entry fee will support the March of Dimes. Call 289-9271. 




CASTLE POINT 
PARTY FOR SPRING BREAK SENIORS 
3-11 SUNDAY 
CASTLE POINT CLUBHOUSE KARIOKI MACHINE and Dj 
-TICKETS ON SALE FRIDAY 
-LA FORTUNE INFORMATION DESK 
Three Irish stars travel to Minneapolis for tourney 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
The Irish men's tennis squad takes a break from team com­petition this weekend, but that won't prevent three players from taking on some of the best competition in the country. 
Dave DiLucia, Andy Zurcher and Chuck Coleman travel to Minneapolis for the Rolex National Indoor Champion­ships, which showcases 32 of the top tennis talents in the college ranks. 
Ranked second in the nation, DiLucia enters the tourney as the number one seed. First­ranked Alex O'Brien of Stanford has decided to bypass the tournament in favor of a professional event in San Francisco. 
However, O'Brien's absence should take little from the overall quality of the field, and the Irish are wary of every opponent. 
"I think it's important to take one match at a time," said DiLucia. "Everyone at this tournament is good, and if you take one match lightly, you're setting yourself up." 
DiLucia will open with Greg Anderson of Fresno State, who won the regional tournament in California. Zurcher, ranked 36th, plays Jose Luis Noriega, a Peruvian who attends the University of San Diego. 
The seventh-ranked Noriega earned a straight-set victory over DiLucia at last year's NCAA tournament. 
"Andy's playing very well," said coach Bob Bayliss. "On an indoor court, which is quicker, he has a chance to beat Noriega." 
I I 

: Five Toppings. 
I $
8 • 99 
1 

Sausage. Pepp3roni. Oniom 1 Mushroans & Groon l'cl'l'Cis 1 (Llrnltod Portions. No Substitution'> 
! Third Pizza only $4.00 more! 
1 MJI 

Umitootimeoffcr 
. Lirru~ed delivery .::~(~~~:\;1 ~,f~"~~~~uffcr.
I 
: . Cu.I&JiliCI p•r• laloi ..... wbcrc ·~hcthk OurI.----..!""::.-:.!!LII.:.~:d!:,l•.::e=rx-.:..... 

David Dilucla 

Bayliss is well aware of the upset potential of every match at the tournament. 
"When you take the top 32 and put them in the same event," he said, "there will be some bruised egos." 
DiLucia and Coleman will compete against fifteen other teams in the doubles field. Currently unranked, the pair qualified for the tournament based on their rank at the end of the 1991 season. 
They will face George Lampert and Greg Seilkop of Clemson in the first round of doubles competition. 
"There are so many good teams out there," said Coleman. "We'll just have to wait and see what happens." 
The next event for the Irish is the upcoming Legends tournament. 
In this event, Notre Dame's team members will face off with some of the greatest names of the past. 
John Lloyd, Peter Fleming and Colin Dibley will be among those trading volleys with the Irish stars. 
"That's quite a crew of people to be coming to South Bend," said Bayliss. 
Ml:~~~~i
.~:: ·: . ;: 


WHAT'S NEW! 

~·PRICE DESTROYER· 
'~'o• •••c:-• 
. =~Two Medium Pizzas with five toppings . .. . $8.99
0 •• 
0 

•271-0300 Notre Dame 
0> •289-0033 St. Mary's 
~ 

·-----~--------.-------------~
1 

--L. ~---­
r----~---------r-------------­
I TRY OUR NEW 15" I LARGE CHEESE PIZZA : : $6.99 I 
1 And receive a tree 32 oz II Domino's cup. Whlle supplies last. I 
I 15% more pi=. only a dollar more 1 
1 SluJcnl JD & Coupon Required. Plca.<r. I I Mention C()(Jpon Wilen Ordering. I 
I Offaupuul.,.21.1992.Y~od 01 pono" 1
Mrl 
r~::~':i7..:~,..::~:::u::~.r-:~~~olr~r I

I . C~IDmcT p•,. talc. Ia& wbcR •ppl.cab£e o~
-4n=:.D:=-:.:I:.de!:":.. _I 
I 

PAN-TASTIC!
I I 

Medium 12" 
1-Topping Pizza
I I $5.99
I 

Choice of Crust: Pan or Original
I 

Sludenl ID & Cou,-xon I~eowrcd /'lease
I 

Mention Coupoo Wh'' Ordcrinp.
I 

Offcrc•pLre~Jilh 1992.\'&lld&tplltici 
I . f:!u~d~~;~r•rt•·~~::'::u:11t.~rn;ln~~(Jffct
._ _____________ _
I : c-~mc:t JIIYI uk4. ~I when: •rphcthlt Our
~I

· dnll'tn ~nul f'C'111hu•! fnr l11t: old•vene& . 
WE NOW HONOR ALL COMPETITOR'S COUPONS 
Studr.nl ID & Coupoo Required. Please Mention Coupo11 When Ordering. 
Offaeqnru J\UI&' 11, IC)9l VU1d •t p&n~ciperi...LOfU oW' Sol ".UuJ With anr utb£T offer 
w1111-.d ddi~~Cry lll:,llunJ&U~ u!c dt1VU1,C. 
~':;_~P:: :=u~ r:~;szt=.,:~.Our

L.-------------­

CROSSWORD 
Thursday 
4:15 p.m. Lecture, "Borges and Peron: A Portrait of Argentina," Tomas Eloy Martinez, Argentinean writer. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 
7 p.m. Lecture, "The Kitty Kat Lounge Case," Charlie Asher, South Bend Attorney. Haggar Game Room. Sponsored by SMC Political Science Club. 
7 p.m. Forum, "Saint Mary's College: Affirming Our Own Identity." Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva, SMC. Sponsored by Women's Studies. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Stir Fry Beef & Vegetables 
Cajun Chicken Breast 
Rotini w/Spring Vegetables 
30 Hauls 32 Unappetizing food 
43 Former New York
34 Periods of re-City mayorlaxation 48 -court35 Encyclopedia parts 49 Inactive36 Levelers 50 Ex-eager Thurmond37 Let in again 53 Switch positions39 Wind instrument 
55 League for
40 Negated a layoff 
50-Down
41 Gluttony 


31 "Gone With the Wind" star 32 Villain 33 Terminus of 
19-Across (2 wds.)35 Truthfu 1 38 Loud noise 42 Like spoiled food 43 Imitated a banshee 44 Let 45 -Christie 46 Sturm ----Orang 47 Santo ­51 Sot's sound 52 Office note 54 Norse god (var.) 55 Neither you ­56 The Emerald Isle 57 Actor Nick ­58 Harte or Maverick 59 High-speed planes 60 Bum ---­61 Rooney or Hardy 
DOWN 

1 Fortress 2 Seafood dish 3 Italian dish 4 Part of TNT 5 Hoodwink 6 "----the Mood for 
Love" 7 Army officers (abbr.) 
8 Common Latin abbreviation 9 Very proper 
10 -station 
11 Hungry ­
12 On the loose (2 wds.) 13 Advice 21 Made double-sure 22 RV 25 Hungarians 27 Missouri city 29 Tonto's horse 
@Edward Julius Collegiate CH8810 
ACROSS 
16 Concerning 
21 Dwindles, as a

1 Shaw,', s "The App 1e 
(2 wds.) 
supply (2 wds.)

17 Kipling's "Rikki­
23 Prohibit

5 Onion form 
Tikki--" 
24 Destined for

10 Military group 
18 State flower of New 
failure

member 
Hampshire 
26 Stair parts

14 Construction member 
19 Chinese border 
28 Entangle

(2 wds.) 
river

15 Ham it up 29 Geological epoch
20 Boxing great 
(2 wds.) 

MARCH 6-15 7 NIGHTS ~RAMADA INN F 9 !I BUS TRANS RTA NINCLUDED 
Contact the Sea'elaly nthe Student Government 2nd Floor LaFortune Student Center 
0' 
CAL1239-7668 

DEADLINE FOR SIGN-UPS IS FEBRUARY 711! 
(A $75 DEPOSIT IS REQUIRED AT SIGN-UPS) 
~~~~ 
'The tndianpoUs ~aUet 'Jheatn~ 
JATMAN 
proud£y presents 

THURSDAY, FEB. 6 8 PM & 10:30 PM 
S{eeping r:Beauty 
k.Ovt. N THE H(J(Jf> 
~ FRIDAY, FEB. 7 ~0~ SATURDAY, FEB. 8 :Je6ruary 7, 1992 0~ 8PM&10:30PM 
O'Laugfi£in Jtut!itorium 

SP'M ~.~&. 
~.... ~~ 
~~~0 
T~eli;Jts on safe at tfu La:Fortune Information 'Des{ 
~ "'l am£ O'La111JMin 1Jo~ Off~ees 
Notre Dame/St. Mary's students $7 
General Aclrnisslon $1. 


Senior CHizens aChildren (under 10) $12 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Sports 
page 24 
Thursday, February 6, 1992 
Irish land several top prospects in football class of '96 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR rated by some as the top defen­Sports Writer sive end in the nation. Jeremy Akers, a 6-6, 260­
Notre Dame harvested a pound tackle from Washington, bumper crop of future Irish D.C., and David Quist, a 6-5, football stars. but was unable to 245-pounder also hope to con­pick its quarterback of the tribute to the Irish defensive future Wednesday afternoon as front in 1992. the Irish signed 22 players from As Notre Dame built a repu­around the country. tation with Vinny Cerrato for 
drawing premier talent out of Florida, Ron Cooper is makingI See Rich get richer/page 20 an impression with his Texas recruits.
Though the Irish picked up After Notre Dame drewseveral of the top high school Huntley Bakich and Mike Millerfootball players in the nation, out of the Lone Star State in
quarterback Tommie Frazier 
1991, Cooper led the Irish to
chose Nebraska over Notre get four Texas recruits this
Dame. 
year.

Despite this loss, Notre Dame Defensive end Alton Maiden,made several quality additions defensive back Bobby Taylorto the 1992 roster, especially in and tight end Leon Wallace arethe bolstering of a shallow de­all considered blue-chip pros­fensive line. 
pects for the Irish. 

Anthony Jones, of Oak Lawn, Taylor, who at 6-4 is a tallIll., is likely the most highly-re­defensive back, may also play
garded member of this unit. 
for the Irish basketball team. 
The 6-5. 251-pounder totaled 
The fourth Texan, quarter­127 tackles last season for 
back Wade Smith, was a last-Richards High School, and was 
Women's hoops hopes to take two 
By RENE FERRAN seconds remaining, but sopho­more Carol Madsen hit one of 
Associate Sports Editor 
two free throws down the stretch, and on the rebound,The Notre Dame women's Janet Haneberg was fouled.
basketball team, winners of two Her two free throws sealed the
straight, makes its western 
win for the Musketeers. 

swing through the Midwestern Xavier comes into tonight's
Collegiate Conference this game on the heels of a two­
weekend, starting with Xavier game losing streak, includingUniversity tonight at 7:00p.m. 
their tirst loss in MCC play lastAfter facing the league-lead­Saturday against Evansville.
ing Musketeers {12-6, 5-1), the 
The Musketeers are led by
Irish will travel to Dayton on Madsen, the conference leaderSaturday at 2:00 p.m. to meet in scoring (19. 7 ppg) and freethe Flyers (8-10, 3-3). 
throw percentage (.828),
Notre Dame (6-11, 3-2) will freshman Lynn Bihn (11.2 ppg,be looking for a measure of re­
7.6 rpg) and senior Sherylvenge against Xavier. The 
Krmpotich (10.0 ppg, 2.3
Musketeers handed the Irish a steals).
69-66 defeat back on January The Flyers, meanwhile, will7th at the Joyce ACC, the first 
play tonight against Wright
time in the series history that State before taking on the IrishXavier had come away with a on Saturday. Notre Dame de­victory. 
feated Dayton 76-70 in double
In that game, Notre Dame fought back from a 10-point see STREAK/page 17deficit to tie the game with 26 

backs they sought. "Then, forty-eight hours later 
"No one bases things on he vacillated on it. whether you get a quarterback "The negative recruiting or a running back," said bothers me. It bothers me that Lemming in Wednesday's South people do certain things. But I Bend Tribune. "I think they've can only run our program and got 15 or 17 players who can that's all I'm going to run. If an make an immediate impact." individual can be talked out of 
Two recruits slipped out of something then he doesn't be­Notre Dame's grasp within the long here. If an individual gives last two days, as Floridians his word, and backs out of it, he Frazier and Danny Ferguson doesn't belong here." chose Nebraska and Miami, re­Frazier, a quarterback from spectively. Bradenton, Fla., was consid­
At an awards ceremony ered the prize of the Irish re­
Lou Holtz January 28, Ferguson, of cruiting crop until he an­minute addition by the Irish Miami, told his audience that he nounced his decision to attend after Frazier committed to had chosen the Irish over the Nebraska. Nerbraska. University of Miami. However, "We've never had a bad quar­
"The guy (Cooper) really did a the Hurricane recruiters did not terback as long as I've been tremendous job in the state of give up, and Ferguson an­coaching," said Holtz. "And I Texas," said Holtz. nounced Monday that he had don't expect that we ever will. Initial evaluations of the Irish changed his mind. Holtz was "We felt that there was one 
recruits were impressive. disturbed by the decision of the young man that belonged here. 
Tom Lemming, one of the 5-11, 180-pound running back. I really did. I'm sorry about the most respected names in re­"We visited his home, and he decision he made, but we wish cruit evaluation, ranked Notre called us and said he was going him well." Dame ahead of all others in to come to Notre Dame, he Despite the losses of these 1992, despite the fact that the made the decision and he an­two offensive threats, Holtz 
Irish did not pick up heralded nounced it publicly," said Holtz. see RECRUITS/page17 

Kara Leary, shown here against Australia's national team, will lead the Irish into action against Xavier tonight in Cincinnati. Leary will start at point guard, replacing the injured Audrey Gomez. 
Rocket returns to Notre Dame 
Student cannot escape the attention of college stardom 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 
A prodigal son recently re­turned to the Notre Dame cam­pus, but his return was more or less unheralded. As a matter of fact, the return of Raghib "Rocket" Ismail to Notre Dame to complete his requirements for his degree was ironically absent of media attention. 
"When I was walking on campus (when he first re­turned), people were looking at me like I was a ghost." said Rocket at a press conference yesterday. "After the first week, people decided that I must be back for real." 
Or back for now, Rocket still has about three semesters to complete before he can gradu­ate that he must squeeze in during the CFL's off-season. Currently, he is taking a full load of 17 credits including five classes and an independent study en route to his American Studies degree. 

Raghlb Ismail 

Despite the heavy load, Rocket is committed to fulfilling his requirements and grad­uating. 
"I felt bad last year because I used to get a lot of letters from people saying so and so doesn't want to do his homework be­cause he wants to concentrate on football and be like you. You don't realize how much impact you have on people until you get feedback from them," said the former college football star. 
One of the obstacles Rocket has had to overcome since he has been back is trying to bal­ance his schoolwork and his business deals. One reason you may not have spotted the su­perstar on campus yet is be­cause he hasn't spent a week­end here yet. 
Currently, Rocket is working on endorsements for Reebok, Pepsi, Wilson among others and the deals have taken him to Atlanta, Boston, New York, Florida, Toronto, Cancun, and Los Angeles to name a few. 
Overall, Rocket is happy to be back after his experiences in Toronto. 
"It is the same old thing for me. I get up, go to class, and work out. I feel very good about being back at Notre Dame," said Ismail. "The people at the University have been very supportive and I am very appreciative of that." 
When you look at Rocket it is hard to believe that he is only 
see ROCKET/page 17 


Irish hope for boosts from bench and Ross brothers 
Last Saturday during NBC's telecast of the Notre Dame-Duke basketball game, analyst AI McGuire called LaPhonso Ellis, Daimon Sweet and Elmer Bennett "the trifecta," and he claimed if you control them, you shut Notre Dame down. 
On Wednesday, Detroit Mercy showed "'·· that he was right. Though Bennett had a career-high 38 points, the Titans held Mike Scrudato Sweet to 14 points and Ellis had to concentrate more on rebounding than Random Thoughts scoring due to the absence of Keith Tower. 
"The key to the [Detroit) game was that all three of us were not into the game," Bennett said. 
Because of Sweet's cold first half, in which he was 1 for 6 from the floor, and Ellis's activity on the boards, Bennett was forced to score more. By the end of the night he had taken 29 of the team's 65 shots. 
Teams do not win too many games when their point guard takes nearly half their shots. 
"Elmer's job is to distribute the ball and run the offense," Irish coach John MacLeod commented. "However, I want to see him shoot, maybe not 29 times, but he's a scorer. Monday night he had some questionable shots, but he also had a hot hand." 
With Tower out, the Irish are going to need someone to step forward and start scoring to take some of the burden off Ellis, Sweet and Bennett. Ellis cannot be expected to score as much 
see RANDOM/page 17 














