~·~ 
-Q&­

e 0 bserver ~imMa~Cd~
NOTRE OAME•INOIANA 

VOL. XXIV NO. 91 MONDAY February 1o 1992
I I 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


Media's role examined by Starin 
By CARA ECKMAN 
News Writer 
The public scrutiny caused by the media's coverage of the al­legations against presidential candidate Bill Clinton demon­strates the determining role 
• Future of media/ page 5 
that news media will play in the 1992 presidential election, said Matthew Storin, executive edi­tor of The New York Daily News. 
Storin. a "64 Notre Dame graduate, lectured last Friday on the journalistic issues raised by The New York Daily News' coverage of the Clinton story, and the story's effect on the race for the Democratic presi­dPntial nomination. 
"I believe my paper... played a significant role in the fact that this story... came into widPr circulation," said Starin. 
The story, regarding a 1990 lawsuit which claimed that Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton had affairs with five women, was first brought to the atten­tion of the public by The Star, a supermarket tabloid. 
Storin said that he made the derision to run the story in The New York Daily News when he saw the story on the front page of its chief c.ompetitor, The New York Post. "We made a commercial decision," said Storin. "we couldn't afford to have them out there with that kind of story." 
The Clinton story presented the professional dilemma of 
see MEDIA/ page 4 
Morrissey braves cold to raise charity money 


Students protest company's policies 
By JOHN ROCK Co...replaced by scab workers 
News Writer after refusing to accept the unacceptable: wage cuts, health insurance cuts and holiday
Angered by the cuts," he said in regard to IP's environmental and labor labor relations, which currently 
policies of International Paper, has two complaints pendingmembers of the Democratic 
with the National Labor 

Socialists of America (DSA) Relations Board. 
rallied outside of the Center for Pamphlets passed out by the Continuing Education last group indicated that IP had Friday. pleaded guilty to several felony
The hour-long demonstration criminal charges relating to the was a protest not only against illegal disposal of hazardous the company's policies, but also wastes. against Notre Dame trustee "We mourn the crimes Jane Pfieffer, a 14-year member committed against the envi­of the Board of Directors at ronment by International International Paper, according Paper... (which) has committed 
to DSA co-chair David Brach. 
environmental atrocities at "Our goal was to show visible plants nationwide. dumping 
concern with International toxic waste, polluting our water 
Paper and get the attention of and contaminating our air," Pfieffer," said Branch. "We also Brach added. wanted to get people interested "Finally, we mourn the fact and involved at Notre Dame." 
that a member of IP's Board of The group waved signs read­Directors is a trustee of our ing "IP dumps toxic waste. university. We are concerned 
Let's dump Jane Pfieffer." and about the association of a uni­"Labor-Yes, Environment-Yes, versity like Notre Dame with a 
IP-NO." Brach, dressed as the greed-driven corporation like "capitalist grim reaper," IP," he said. planted two memorial crosses According to Father Oliver marked "Labor RIP" and 
Williams, he and Pfieffer dis­"Environment RIP." cussed the group's actions and "We have to understand that 
both went out to talk with 

the difference between the 
demonstrators. "We were de­

(real) grim reaper and the capi­lighted that there are students talist grim reaper is that the that care enough about the en­former acts with one swift blow vironment to do this. If any­while the latter kills slowly," thing, I'm discouraged that 
Brach said. there were not more," he said. The highlight of the demon­Pfieffer encouraged them to stration came when Brach gave invite her and other IP execu­a eulogy to labor and the envi­tives back to campus to discuss 
ronment. 
business and the environment,
"We are here today to mourn according to member Amythe losses suffered by the paper Echart. workers formerly employed by 
International Paper see PFIEFFER I page 4 

By KELLY DERRICK 
News Writer 
In a campaign to raise money for the Megan Beeler and Colleen Hipp Scholarship Funds. shirtless members of Morrissey Manor participated in a mile and a half "Polar Run" across the snowy campus Saturday. 
The first annual run at­tracted close to 120 runners and raised approximately nine hundred dollars-only one hundred dollars away from the dorm's set goal, according to event coordinators. All pro­ceeds will be equally divided into the scholarship funds, they said. 
Morrissey residents decided to raise money for the funds in a "more exciting way that would not be as effortless as a contribution box," said Blane Shearon, one of the organizers of the run. Morrissey hopes that the run becomes a tradition on the campus to honor Megan and Colleen, he added. 
Saturday morning, about 120 Morrissey men gathered in the dorm's lobby to prepare for the run. Members of the Notre Dame Cheerleading Squad painted "M's" on the chests, backs and legs of the runners to let the campus know which hall they represented. 
Father Joe Ross, rector of Morrissey, fully supported and participated in the event, as well as three resident advisors: Greg Hendry, Mike Dehring and Brian Shortal. 
As the clock ticked closer to­wards the noon starting hour, excitement grew and chants and cheers broke out. 
Said one Morrissey resident before the run, "even though running out in the cold may sound stupid, it's for a good cause." 
University President Father Edward Malloy launched the run. Arriving just before the start, he congratulated the runners. "Never have I seen so many fools in one hall," said Malloy, "It's for a good cause, and you're only young once." 
Ross said a prayer and the men filed out, donning their "M's". Spectators gathered anxiously to see the momentous event. With the firing of the gun, the pack, dressed in noth­
see POLAR/ page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Health costs too much for American 
The thought of spending 
almost $10,000 for a 
semester of education is 
enough to make the 
average person shudder. 
But. what about being in 
the position of having to 
spend almost $10.000 to 
maintain one's health? It 
is not a very pleasant 
thought. Unfortunately. it Editor 
is a reality for too many Americans. 
Over Christmas Break. I spent two separate 
days in the hospital as an outpatient for minor 
kidney problems. No big deal. I thought. 
The bills that soon afterward filled the 
mailbox at home begged to differ. It was a big 
deal. 
Bills from this 'minor procedure' began piling 
up faster than the University can add room 
damage charges at the end of the school year. 
In my typical suburbanite mentality. the 
thought of Blue Cross I Blue Shield set my mind 
to rest. The almighty insurance will take care o 
everything, I reassured myself. 
After a while, I began thinking about the Ameriean health care situation. Would Joe (or Jane) Average from Anytown, U.S.A. have received the same excellent medical care that I did -even if he/she did not have medical insurance? 
And again, in the mind frame of my sub­urbanite mentality. I rationalized that un­doubtedly, Joe (Jane) Average would receive the same quality care as I. After all. do not we Americans have at least a sense of compassion? And certainly, federal government programs would not let good standing American citizens fall through the cracks. 
In reality, however, medicine is a money making enterprise. a survival of the fittest competition. Those who are lucky enough to have good insurance receive the necessary medical care. Those who are not as fortunate are left to fight for the table scraps of the system. 
Where is the justice? 
Maybe the time has come for the United States to move forward with a socialized medical system. 
A system in which all new born babies are at least given a chance for a healthy start on life. A system in which Joe (Jane) Average can receive needed medical attention without the fear of going into debt for life. A system in which working Americans do not have to decide between taking their children to the doctor and making the month's house rent payment. 
Hopefully the time has come for the American people to take notice of people who just canno't afford the high cost of health care that they deserve. 
Maybe the answer is with socialized medicine; maybe it is not practical. The time has come to end the sight of sick people living in a society with the capability of making them well, but does not. 
But then again. maybe we are satisfied with the present health system, making the American lifestyle a survival of the fittest and richest. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Today's Staff 
News Julie Barrett Meredith McCullough  Production Kathy Fang Lisa Bourdon  
Sports Jen Marten  Systems Paul Froning  

Business 
Colleen Gannon Rich Riley 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Pr86Surs 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-5TORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE 

.;::. .··:·:=::;::::::::-::· 
~--· ....·... :::::::::::-:·.··· 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
•FRANKFURT, Germany-
Secretary of State James Baker held out the possibility today that the United States would contribute to a multibillion-dollar fund to support the Russian currency. But Baker, speaking to reporters aboard a plane .; bringing him here to inaugurate a food airlift for the former Soviet republics, said any U.S. contribution to a so-called rubble-stabilization fund would depend on progress in Russian economic reforms. Any further U.S. aid, especially cash. to the successor of the Soviet Union could be unpopular with an American public that tends to regard foreign aid as impinging on the beleaguered domestic economy. 
NATIONAL Doctor accused of misusing sperm 
•ALEXANDRIA, Va.-The prosecution will try to convince jurors an infertility doctor artificially inseminated dozens of women with his own sperm without their knowledge. But the defense argues the doctor donated his sperm to increase patients' chances of becoming pregnant or to protect them from potential exposure to AIDS, but only after receiving their consent. Jury selection begins today in U.S. District 
OF INTEREST 
•A 
Summer Service Project informational meeting will be offered for all students who did not attend one of the previous meetings. The meeting is tonight at 5:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 

•women 
in Communications presents Mary Ann Josh. who will discuss her job as senior vice president of Special Events/Community Relations at Ruder Finn Public Relations. The discussion is tonight at 7 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge. LeMans Hall. SMC for all interested. 


MARKET UPDATE 

1o, 1992 
FORECAST: 
Mostly cloudy today with a 50 percent chance of snow. High in the mid 30s and low around 30. TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Amsterdam  43  34  
Atlanta  50  36  
Bogota  64  38  
Boston  27  t7  
Brussels  45  39  
Chicago  29  17  
Fargo  29  07  
Fairbanks  18  02  
Great Falls  38  24  
Honolulu  81  58  
Houston  57  42  
Johannesburg  90  64  
Kansas City  39  24  
London  50  43  
Los Angeles  65  52  
Miami Beach  69  56  
Mpls-St. Paul  22  02  
New York  28  21  
Paris  50  39  
San Diego  64  52  
Sao Paulo  77  68  
South Bend  28  16  
Tokyo  44  36  
Warsaw  37  30  
Washington. D.C.  36  27  


Court for Dr. Cecil Jacobson, 55, charged with 47 counts of fraud and six counts of perjury. The charges carry a maximum of 285 years in prison and a $500,000 fine. Prosecutors allege Jacobson lied to childless couples about using a sperm bank with anonymous donors to impregnate the women when he instead used his own sperm to father up to 75 of his patients' babies. Jacobson also is accused of falsely telling some women they were pregnant, giving them hormones to simulate pregnancy 
and claiming to locate the fetuses during sonograms. 
CAMPUS 

Knott Hall medallion hunt begins 
•NOTRE 
DAME, lnd.-The Knott Hall first annual charity medallion hunt begins today with participants searching the Notre Dame campus for a medallion that could net them a limousine ride and dinner for four at Tippecanoe restaurant. Clues for the weeklong event will be published daily in the Of Interest section of The Observer. The first person to find the medallion and return it to 419 Knott Hall wins the limousine service, dinner and a travelling plaque for his/her dorm. Registration for the event is automatic with the purchase of a "Kiss me I'm Irish" button and will continue today and tomorrow during dinner at both dining halls. Proceeds from the event will benefit the Catholic Worker House. 

•Siblings 
of disabled people are invited to share their experiences with younger children who have physically and mentally disabled siblings. If you would like to make a difference in the life of a child with a disabled sibling. please call Debbie at 272-5708 or 283-1901. 

•The 
first clue for the Knott Hall Charity Medallion Hunt is: Somewhere 'under the Dome,' Our Medallion finds its home, You'll receive one clue per day, To help you find 


your way. Subsequent clues will follow throughout the week. Whoever finds the medallion should return it to 419 Knott Hall to claim the prizes. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1846: Members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter­Day Saints, the Mormons, began an exodus to the west from Illinois. 

•In 
1949: Arthur Miller's play "Death of a Salesman" opened at Broadway's Morosco Theater with Lee Cobb in the role of Willy Loman and Mildred Dunnock as his wife, Linda. 

• 
In 1967: The 25th Amendment to the Constitution, dealing with presidential disability and succession, went into effect. 

• 
In 1981: Eight people were killed, 198 injured, when fire broke out at the Las Vegas Hilton hotel-casino. (A busboy was later found guilty of setting the fire.) 



Monday, February 1 0, 1992 

some Peoplecommit Child Abuse Before Their Child Is Even Born. 
Accordirw to the surgeon general. ..;mc)km.£.! hv ;1 pn•.1..rnant woman may rl':-;ult 111 a child's prL•rnature birth, low birth weight and fetal injury. If that's not ··hild abuse. then \\'hat is' 
IAMERICAN <)!CANCER~SOCIETY' 
CLUB COLUMN 
FEBRUARY 10, 1992 
Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4:00 pm Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the following Monday edition of The Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office in room 206f LaFortune. 
1) The Club Coordination Council would like to remind ail presidents of graduate and undergraduate clubs to check their mailboxes on the second floor of LaFortune across from the Student Government offices. 
2) LBst Day to access club funds is April10, 1992. 
3)Notre Dame Best Buddies will be selling t-shirts for $10 in the dining halls, Feb. 11-13. For further information, please call Julie Wright at 283-1291. 
4) Campus Fellowship will have a meeting, Friday, Feb. 14 at7:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, 2nd floor of LaFortune. If you are coming for the first time, please come at6:45. Morning prayer and meals are continuing. For more information about Campus Fellowship, please call Pat Clark at 283­2078. 
Spring Break '92 
with COLLEGE TOURS 
c 

419 

7 NIGHT PACKAGES 
Don't be fooled by an imitation! Go for the real thing. There is never a dull moment with COLLEGE TOURS. 
The First Flight Sold Out A Second Flight Is Available Seats Going Fast SIGN UP NOW! 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 

A sign of support 
Lewis freshman Colleen Barry reads a poster sent to Notre Dame from the students of Haughton College. The poster, hanging on the first floor of LaFortune, expressed their sympathy concerning the women's swim team bus tragedy. 
Malloy voted ACE vice chair 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI Father Edward Malloy has News Writer taken on one more responsibil­ity in the name of Notre Dame. 
Elected vice chair on the 
Having recently been elected
board of directors of the 
to a second five-year term as
American Council on Education 
president of the University,
(ACE). University President 
Malloy will soon begin serving 
his one-year term as vice chair of the board of directors. for ACE. 
At its annual meeting in Washington, D.C. on Jan. 23, the ACE elected Malloy to the vice chair on the board of di­rectors which oversees the pri­orities and budget of the orga­nization's full-time staff. 
"I think this position will help the visibility of the university," said Malloy. The ACE is an um­brella organization for more than 1600 schools and nearly 200 associations. "The ACE represents higher education," Malloy added. "Notre Dame benefits from its operation as well as the other member schools." 
One of Malloy's roles in his new position will be as a repre­sentative of higher education to Congress. According to Malloy, his new job will also entail three meetings a year at the ACE's headquarters in Washington as well as tele­phone and fax communication with the full-time staff. 
"Right now I am playing an assisting role, learning the re­sponsibilities of the position until I take o er full time," 

London sus• 
Brussels $510* Paris $515* IOIDC $565* Atllas $615* 

·~ •~ romdtrip from CJlica9o basedon a 
~pudlase. laces not nctuded m 
~apply. Call krr Cllher v.a'ldw!Oe I 
c~esma~~ons... bolh one wt1t m rculdlrip. 
Council TrawJ 
1153 N. ~~s lhd loa Chlcii!P. •-to 
311·951.0585 
Ca11 For A Free 1992 Student Travel catalo!l! 
MAPLE LANE BARBER SHOP 
HOURS: MON·FRI8:00·5:30 SAT 8:00·3:0•

CALL TERESA 2112 South Bend ,Avenu• Appointments If desired 272-6722I·800·39S·4896 
~ 


page 4 The Observer Monday, February 10, 1992 


tense media coverage of the al­legations against Clinton has
Media 
virtually destroyed Clinton's shot at the presidency. "I thinkcontinued from page 1 that Bill Clinton's candidacy is 
how to maintain popularity 
dead," he said. 
without becoming caught in the Although he stated that "the wave of sensationalism, accord­
mere existence of a 
ing to Storin. In determining · relationship like that should not 
whether a news story 
disqualify a candidate for the maintains this balance, Storin presidency," Storin said that 
stated, "It's a matter of 
the negative light shed on 
judgement every night." 
Clinton by the media would Storin said that the Clinton provide the Republican party
story was carried in the 
with a weapon sufficient to January 17 issue of The New 
defeat Clinton, should he obtain 
York Daily News because it the Democratic presidentialwould inevitably become a 
nomination. 
decisive factor in the Clinton As a result, said Storin, the campaign. 
Democratic party will be forced "To think that this was not to bring forward a new presi­going to become an issue ... the dential candidate. In Storin's 
lawsuit would have to sit there 
estimation, the Democratic 
in some courtroom and never party does not regard its sec­
see the light of day," said ond-in-line candidate, Paul 
Storin. 
Tsongas, as a strong enoughlie said that the decision to 
candidate to win the presi­
run the story was justified on dency.
the grounds that it was not 
Storin claimed that the me­
Clinton's private life that was 
dia's attention to the privatecentral to the story, but the 
lives of candidates will have 
patterns of Clinton's judgement 
implications for future elec­and behavior which the story 
tions. He said, "The Gary Hart reveals. 
thing sort of set up the Bill 
"I do not think that this is a Clinton thing, and I guess in 
story about whether a man 
1996, no one will run who has 
running for president had an 
anything in the wastebasket." 
extramarital affair ... its really 
Storin's lecture was pre­
about behavior, control [and] sented in the Hesburgh Library discipline," Storin said. 
Lounge and sponsored by the According to Storin, the in-American studies department. 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
A helping hand 

ND Health Services Nurse Diane Zahl tends to Colette LaForce's injured finger after the sophomore from 
P.E. hurt it wrestling with a friend. 
Reduce 

Hey ladies will this eligible bachelor
Reuse 

sing you a love song tonight?
Recycle 

Happy 22nd Birthday, Dan "Chacahog" Swiatek! 
From Tambo, Cat, Milk, Moyni and Cherr 

scarves took off. 
Spray paint in the snow marked the route with arrows and messages such as "are you cold yet?" With promises of 23 degree weather, this was no joke. 
The throng of runners made it back to Morrissey in just over six minutes, panting from exer­bare their chests for a good cause," said Joel Wine, co­chairman of the Polar Run. 
Organizing the event was the Morrissey Hall Council and co­chairmen Joel Wine, Todd Rice and Shearon. 
Donations have been given by Morrissey residents as well as other halls. Morrissey is still collecting contributions. 

DISMAS HOUSE 
Pfieffer 
continued from page 1 
"I suggested to them the pos­sibility of a conference at Notre Dame, where corporate busi­ness leaders and key environ­mental people could get to­gether," Williams said. 
Pfieffer responded to some of the charges against her and International Paper, according to Brach. 
"She said that it was difficult to control all the actions of such a big corporation," he said. Some of the environmental violations could have been due to ignorance of federal regulations and some were probably from negligence. 
Pfieffer could not be reached for comment, but indicated to the students her willingness to return and talk more with them. 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 
A community of support, reconciliation and adjustment, Dismas House offers a unique opportunity for Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students to share in a life-training experience with former prisoners. Together an environment of trust, friendship and hope can be built to provide the confidence and courage necessary for each to enter society as a valuable and integral member 
Are you interested In living in the Dismas community next semester? 
Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns. See: Kathy Royer --239­7862, or call Br. Bonaventure Scully -­239-7353, or call Dismas House --233­8522 
tion as well as the cold. The 
hall contributed frothy hot chocolate to the participants. continued from page 1 "Morrissey Manor is grateful to all who made contributions ing but shorts, shoes and to this event and to those who 
Polar 
by THORNTON WILDER Directed by Mark Pilkinton 
Wednesday Feb. 19, 8:10 pm Washington Hall Thursday Feb. 20, 8:10pm Reserved seats: $7 Friday Feb. 21, 8:10pm 
Student and senior citizen discounts Saturday Feb. 22, 8:10pm are available for Wednesday, Sunday Feb. 23, 3:10pm Thursday and Sunday performances. 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa Orders: call239-8128 

Monday, February 1 0, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Storin predicts future of American media 

By DANNIKA SIMPSON 
News Writer 
More print and broadcasting companies will join together to give the public the news, ac­cording to Matthew Storin, ex­ecutive editor of the New York Daily News. 
That is one of the predictions Storin has made about the changes in the American media over the next ten years. He says part of the reason for the change is the low retention of news received from television. 
"When watching the evening news with a friend take some notes ... at the end of the broadcast ask them some ques­tions about what they heard," Storin said. "I think you'll be amazed about how little is re­tained by the common listener. (The) combination of video and audio in broadcasting seems distracting." 
Storin sees the formation of news services geared specifi­cally toward what is going on in a particular city. He says these news services will be "little CNN(s)" because they will provide CNN type coverage for large cities. 
He also predicts the three major networks will become more like news services, as 
well. Storin says, "(These changes ) will be a threat to all established networks and newspapers." 
This threat from the news services will cause an increase in price and quality of newspa­pers, according to Storin. The price will go up because adver­tisements will cost more and, therefore, the papers will be thinner because there will be fewer advertisements, he ex­plained. 
He said, however, that the papers will be able to get the higher price because the "quality of surviving newspa­pers... will improve because of the baby boomers." 
As the baby boomers get older, they will need and want information about health care and have more of an interest in public policy, Storin said. "The superficiality now seen in newspapers and on television will begin to wane." 
One change Storin would like to see is an increase in the amount of ethical people joining the field of journalism. He said the students who come out of Notre Dame are impressive because they have high moral standards. 
"Journalism needs those same kind of people," Storin said. "More than ever (we) need 

The Observer/John Rock 

Matthew Starin, executive editor of the New York Daily News, dis­cusses the future of the American media, as well as its role in the 1992 presidential campaign, at a lecture last Friday in Hesburgh Library. 
highly ethical, community-ori-"You've got to choose who ented people to make it a better you work for. It is the most se­world." rious decision. You want to 
He encouraged people to fmd know what type of company (it out about the company they is) and what the morals of the want to work for. company are." 
Catholic education focus of ACCU 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
News Writer 
The role of faculty and the importance of Catholic educa­tion was explored last Tuesday and Wednesday in the annual meeting for the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities (ACCU) in Washington D.C., according to Notre Dame Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
With O'Meara chairing the planning task force of the meeting for the second consec­utive year and Nathan Hatch, ND vice president for graduate studies jtnd research, serving as a panelist, Notre Dame played an active part in the meeting. 
This year, the meeting fo­cused on the theme "Catholic Higher Education: The Mission and the Faculty." 
"The ACCU is an academic association of 235 Catholic col­leges and universities whose purpose is to further the life of Catholic institutions through the discussion of common issues and interests," said O'Meara. This year and last, the topic 

Iraq criticizes US, UN 

MANAMA, Bahrain (AP) ­Iraq on Sunday unleashed a barrage of criticism at the United States and the United Nations and stepped up attacks on international sanctions. 
A spokesman of the Iraqi Culture and Information Ministry said President Bush should "concentrate his efforts on succeeding in his new job as a salesman of cars" and stay out of Iraqi affairs, the official Iraqi News Agency reported. 
Also Sunday, the Iraqi foreign minister condemned the U.N. Security Council and INA ac­cused U.N. nuclear weapon in­spectors of violating diplomatic immunity rules by entering the Baghdad headquarters of an Arab scientific organization. The agency said the visit was a "deliberate attempt to harm Iraq" by trying to provoke a confrontation. 
The developments appear to reflect mounting hostility in Baghdad to the United Nations and the United States as the trade sanctions, which began after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in August 1990, cause worsen­ing hardship for Iraq's 17 mil­lion people. 
centered on Catholic colleges and their academic mission, and the implications of them being Catholic institutions of learning, Hatch said. 
Father Donald Monan, presi­dent of Boston College and a key speaker at the convention, spoke of how the essence of a Catholic university is to fulfJll a religious responsibility by being good at both research and teaching, Hatch reported. 
The last two meetings have emphasized Catholic identity and intellectual life, O'Meara said. "How do we face the next century in Catholic colleges and universities?" O'Meara asked. "Our Catholic identity will be determined by the stronger presence of lay faculty," he added. 
Monan and Eugene Kennedy, professor of psychology at Loyola University, addressed the two main speeches the first night. Monan spoke of the role of the faculty in Catholic col­leges and Kennedy talked about the nature of authority in the modern world. 
Hatch participated in a panel on the second night, discussing how one goes about nurturing the faculty in Catholic colleges. "Attracting the faculty who embody and express the fun­damental purposes of the insti­tutions is the most critical re­sponsibility these colleges and universities have," Hatch said. 
In the second panel, three graduates of Catholic colleges addressed the importance of a Catholic education, and how these schools made a difference in their lives, O'Meara said. 
"These were three apprecia­tive reflections on the personal, spiritual and intellectual impact of an education from a Catholic college or university,"Hatch said. 
The ACCU has existed since the early seventies and is an as­sociation which Catholic uni­versities and colleges across the nation join voluntarily, O'Meara said. The director of the ACCU is Sister Alice Gallin, who is also a member of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees. An international association also exists, which University President Father Edward Malloy attended in Tulose, France last fall, O'Meara added. 
'

---' -----' ---------------------------...... --.
ATHLETES... 
l

ON FIELD DURING FOOTBALL GAMES? TRAVEL? ON THE BASKETBALL COURT? 
SUPPORT YOUR NOTRE DAME TEAMS : IN THE MOST SPIRITED WAY-: 
: 
~

BE A CHEERLEADER! 
i 

Tryout Information Meeting 
WEDNESDAY, FEB.12, 7:00PM 
FOOTBALL AUDITORIUM IN THE JACC. : 

....
....
.... 
$1 ~~~-----------------------------$.1
Dear Fellow Sophomores, ~ 
.... 
·~··:
...
....'• . 
~:
....•'•
.... 
l1HI: 
·~··:: 
....' ' ' 
~l 
•'• 
!@ 
~ 
~ 
...
... 
•'•
•'•
•'•
•'• 
~ ... 
~ ... 
•'•
•'•
•'• 
~ 
tbi: 
~:
:.::
te;
.... 
;~:u; :n=:
..' ' 
..... 
t@. 
~ 
'•' 
$
,. 
~ ~: 
:~·::
' ..
. '• 
:~·::
..
. . 
'•' 
~ ...... 
$ ...... 
[@
.... 
~\
.... 
~l
.... 
·[@·.:
' ' 
.' 
~: 
u~u·
... 
~ 
iFl 
~ 
...
...
...
... 
~ 
Wj, 
·:·:
:·:·
....
.... 
·:·: 
~l 
it 
~ 
~ 
:v: 
'•'
:ij::
' '•
' '•
.!.~:.~. 
Sho tar th.is year, the four ofd~s havHe had a w~nderfu.l time serving has ~our cflass o~fi1cers. bThe jo? ha; been. c a11engmg, yet very rewar mg. owever, 1or vanous reasons, t e .our o us WI11not e runnmg 10r 1umor  ~ ·:·  
Class Office next year.  Our initial goal for this school year was quite demanding, for we wanted to unify the  ~  
Class of 1994 and make a positive impact on the community.  The entire council has shown much persistence in  ~  

their support, enthusiasm and commitment to the class throughout the year. We thank them for their dedication. iJHJ Although we feel our group has made considerable progress, there remains much to be done in an effort to :::: better accomplish our goal. We encourage future councils to both build on our successes and learn from our ~: mistakes. With fresh ideas and a new set of hands, even greater progress can be made toward our initial goal. ~ Throughout your remaining years at Notre Dame, we encourage everyone to stay interested and stay involved. ~ Only together can we serve the community and achieve class unification. Thanks, Class of 1994, for a great ~ ear! Dave, Ellen, Jack, and Cath ::: 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------··· 
Already the Sophomore Seruice Committee has planned many seruice projects for this Spring Semester. On February 12 we will sponsor a trip to Countryside Place retirement home and pass out Ualentines to hopefully 95 elderly residents. Sign up for this euent in the Sophomore Class Office. Then on February 18 there will be a lecture giuen by-Fr. Himes called "Seruicing Others, Seruicing Myself.. followed by uarious speakers who haue had incredible eHperiences resulting from seruice projects. It will be held in the library auditorium at 7:00pm. Look for more euents later in the semester. 

~~ 
A'ee!7an-5tan c. t!4f? .:? 5tud,v Break t!Af? 18 Class Nl!Jhl at 5outl7 Dll7117g Hall 


CLASS OF 1994 

~ .~....
:!:!....
.... 
~; ~l 
'•~l ' 
iir+j
:~:I
:ij·::
' ..
' 
~\ 
~ . 
·:·: 
~1 
$ 
~ ... $l 
t. 
~l ~ 
·: 
~ 
•!• 
'•'
'•'
'•'
'•' 
~ 
({). 
:·: 
~ ' 
ffi
ij 
~ ~ ~ ~~ 
... 
'•'
.,.'•' 
'•' 
~ 
~ 
~ 
...'•'
.,.
'•' 
$'•' idj 
~ 
~ 
t 
'•''•'~..
..
~ '•
•'• 
irW 

APR ~T-5 Sopi701?70re 51~ 
IJir ••,,,..,.. ­
t• s/1 SIIII/IMHfW. FHI fiW ,.,.,, ,.,.,. 
&IIIH CHMII•HII/1,. 
M ,.._.,.,.•t .. Ill t,_ ,_,,.. DMI• ,._, (IIH/ ,,..,.~.,..,.,,.,. 
The Observer

Monday, February 10, 1992 page 7 
Violent clashes erupt in South Africa, 14 dead 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (API -Black factional violence killed 14 people across South Africa, including a re­gional official of the African National Congress, police said Sunday. 
The ANC official, Sikhumbuzo Ngwenya, was shot to death late Saturday as he left a restaurant in Pietermaritzburg, police and the ANC said. Ngwenya was an ANC leader in the black township of Imbali outside the city and was a member of the group's regional executive committee. 
Imbali has been the scene of intense fighting recently be­tween supporters of the ANC and rival Inkatha Freedom Party, the two leading black political groups. An attack on an Inkatha leader in Imbali ear­lier this month left three chil­dren dead. 
Police said six people died during fighting overnight in the Johannesburg township of Soweto. 
It was not clear what sparked the fight, which involved Soweto residents and men liv­ing in a nearby hostel for mi­grant workers. Most of the hostel dwellers are Inkatha supporters. 
Police fired rubber bullets, birdshot and tear gas to clear the streets. Police Col. Tienie Halgryn said it was necessary to quell the fighting, but ANC spokesman Louis Ramono ac­cused officers of firing only after the Inkatha supporters returned to the hostel. 
The ANC often has accused security forces of helping Inkatha during township un­rest. The government denies the charge. 
The NEW Six Foot Combo Special From SUBWAY Is A Deliciously Affordable Change Of Taste For Your Next Group Function! 
SUBWAY's New Six Foot Combo Special is a delicious combination of ham, bologna and salami*, plus generous portions 
of cheese, lettuce and tomato, all on our own freshly baked bread. This makes it a welcome change from the usual Pizza, Chicken and Burgers. 
MONEY BACK GURANTEE: 
We're so sure thai you and your group will love the Six Foot Combo Special,that we will refund your money ifyou are not completely satisfied. 
For more infonnation, call the SUBWAY location nearest you: 
SOUTII BEND: SR 23 &Ironwood/277-7744 3010 Lincolnway West/ 232-2270 4444 Western Ave./288-5516 US 31 N(Jn Front Of North Village Mall)/277-1024 
115 W. Washington (Downtown)/289-1288 
MISHAWAKA: 1338 Lincolnway East/255-3322 2315 Lincolnway West/256-1220 5776-49 GrapeRoad/272-1772 LAPORTE: 326-5818 PLYMOUTII: 936-8377 COLDWATER, MI: 517-279-7412 

•All Twkey Based 
ATTENTION: CINCINNATI AREA STUDENTS 
The 1992 xavier Summer Sessions Bulletin of Classes & Workshops Is now available. Undergraduate &graduate level courses offered in the areas of Arts &Sciences, Business, Education, Professional Studies & Social Sciences from May 18-August 14. For your copy call or write: 
X\VIEK 
ill summer sessions UNIVERSITY it~ 3800 Victory Parkway M@ Cincinnati, OH 45207-3123 1!!!1 S13n4S-3601 
Xavier University is an academic community commilled to eqUJJl opportunity for all persons regardless ofage, sex, race, religion, handicap, or national origin. 

Food, folks and fun The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
Brothers Mike, 11, and Joe, 10, Garvey, left to right, feast on some pizza served after the Keenan Mass 
they attended with their father, ND Assistant Director of Public Relations and Information Michael Garvey. 
Also invited to the Mass were several handicapped people from the South Bend area. 
Emergency declared in Algeria 
ALGIERS, Algeria (AP) -The government declared a 12­month state of emergency Sunday to quell spreading Muslim fundamentalist unrest and said it would ban the Islamic Salvation Front. 
A month ago, before the start of an intensive crackdown, the party was on the verge of win­ning power in parliamentary elections. 
The moves by the army­backed ruling council came hours after police raided Salvation Front headquarters and after clashes between fun­damentalists and security forces left about 40 dead and hundreds injured this past week. 
The emergency decree was is­sued by the five-member High State Committee and an­nounced on national television Sunday evening. 
Later, the Interior Ministry said the Salvation Front would be dissolved because of "subversive actions ... that se­riously threaten public order and the state's institutions." 
The emergency decree em­
powers police and military offi­cials to set up special detention centers, to carry out arrests and searches without observing normal legal procedures, and to try detainees before military tribunals. 
All demonstrations "likely to disturb public order" are banned. Authorities have the power to dissolve municipal councils. Most of the councils have been controlled by funda­mentalists since local elections in 1990, a year after the Salvation Front and other op­position parties were legalized. 
The announcement said the emergency decree was effective for one year, but could be lifted earlier. 
The Interior Ministry mean­while filed a legal complaint against the Salvation Front. If the court upholds the com­plaint, the party would be banned, state radio said. 
Speculation had grown re­cently that the government would impose a state of emer­gency as part of its crackdown. Most Front leaders have been arrested. 
Early Sunday, the head of the five-member ruling council, Mohamed Boudiaf, said the council would act to curb street battles. 
The council took power after the army forced President Chadli Bendjedid to resign Jan. 11 after he indicated he was willing to share power with the fundamentalists. The Front was poised to take control of Parliament in what would have been the first free national elec­tions since Algeria gained inde­pendence from France in 1962. 
The new government canceled those elections last month. The council promised to restore democracy, without saying when. 
The Islamic Salvation Front has tapped deep economic dis­content and draws much of its support from the ranks of the young and unemployed. Foes say it was trying to take advan­tage of the move toward democracy and install its own one-party, Islamic state, the first such state in North Africa. 

AT THE RONKIN EDUCATIONAL GROUP OUR CLASS SIZES ARE LIMITED TO NO MORE THAN 1 0 STUDENTS PER CLASS. SIGN UP NOW FOR PREPARATION COURSE FOR SUMMER ISAT 
This example of personalized attention IS JUSt one of the reasons our classes are filling up fast. Call now to reserve a seat. 
• 
40 Hours Of Live Instruction 

• 
Live Tutorial Available At No Extra Charge 



All OUP 

• National 800 Telephone Helpline 
273-1866

• 
6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams US31 North

• 
Constantly Updated Materials 


WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 

r---------------~---­
page 8 The Observer Monday, February 10, 1992 
Indiana crewman dies in Marine helicopter accident 
helicopter had landed here to helicopter is the Marine Corps' refuel or was preparing to land only heavy lift support heli­when the crash occurred at copter. about 4 p.m. EST. The Super Stallion is designed 
to lift 16 tons of cargo over a 

The other New River heli­50-nautical-mile radius. The copter, with five aboard, re­aircraft has a seven-blade 79­mained at Cecil Field to help foot-diameter main rotor head with the crash investigation. and can carry 38 troops. The 
"We just don't know right helicopter is used for assault now," Byers said, adding it may support, movement of internal take several months to deter­cargo, the recovery of tactical mine the cause of the accident. aircraft and the external lifting 
The three-engine heavy lift of weapons and equipment. 
c;[J~V~ 
Send your Valentine a unique gilt in THIS space! Deadline lor FEB. I4 is FEB.I2 Stop by 3rd noor Lalortune ~ lor more details! (g) 
JACKSONVILLE, N.C. (API ­An Indiana serviceman was among the four crewmen killed in the crash and explosion of a Marine helicopter bound for its base here, his father said. 
Military officials notified the family of Lance Cpl. Gordon Singer Jr., 21, of Jacksonville that he was killed in the crash, said the serviceman's father, Gordon Singer of Huntingburg, Ind. 
The other victims were Maj. Jordan Yankov, 35, of Jack­sonville; 1st Lt. Grady Pryor, 26, of Sneads Ferry; and Cpl. Christopher Smith, 22, of Mid-
Evansville crash victims eulogized 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. (AP) -A town stunnnd by the deaths of 16 people when a military transport plane crashed and exploded into a motel and restaurant began burying its dead Sunday. 
Investigators also began ana­
lyzing cockpit voice recorder 
tapes of conversations among 
the crew of the Kentucky Air 
National Guard aboard the C­
130 that plunged into Jojo's 
rnstaurant and the Drury Inn. 
Capt. Phil Miller said the 
tapes survived the crash and 
the fire after the lumbering, 
four-engine turboprop crashed 
during routine training maneu­
vers at Evansville Regional 
Airport, about a mile north of 
the crash site. 
Miller declined to divulge the 
contents of the recording but 
said it would be contained in a 
military crash report that 
would be released publicly and 
to crash victims' families when 
it is finished in three to four 
months. 
Inspectors on Sunday used 
heavy equipment to put large 
pieces of the wreckage onto 
trucks that carried it to an 
Evansville Regional Airport 
hangar for safekeeping and 
analysis. 
Mourners attended funerals for three of the 11 Evansville residents killed in the accident. The nine people who died in a meeting room on the hotel's fourth floor were affiliated with a local plumbing supply company; the two who died in the restaurant worked there. 
About 600 people heard two brothers of John Stallings Jr. ­a vice president of Plumbing & Industrial Supply Co., a father of young triplets and a Boy Scout leader -eulogize him. 
"We're all asking the question why? Why fourth floor? Why 9:48? Why P&I? Why John," said Jim Stallings. "We'll never know any of those answers all of our lives." 
Bruce Stallings said his brother was also a brother to friends who came to him. "I know that John loved each of you. These past few days have made me realize that John was really a brother to each of his many, many friends." 
At a funeral for Darrel Arnold, a P&l worker, the Rev. 
way Park, the Daily News of members perished in the Jacksonville said. crash," said Bert Byers, base 
Yankov was the pilot and spokesman at Cecil Field. Pryor, his co-pilot. Smith and "Fire and smoke were re­Singer were crew chiefs aboard ported before it crashed and the aircraft. exploded," he said: adding the 
All were members of heavy crash site looked like "a bunch helicopter squadron 464 of Ma­of rubble." rine aircraft group 29. They were based at New River Ma­"It's a terrible sight," Byers rine Corps Air Station near said. Camp Lejeune. The H-53 Super Stallion heli­
The helicopter was on its way copter was one of two heli­from Key West, Fla., when it copters on a flight from Key crashed at the Cecil Field Naval West Naval Air Station to New Air Station near Jacksonville, River Marine Corps Air Station Fla., on Saturday afternoon, a in North Carolina. Navy spokesman said. Byers said it hadn't been de­
"It appears that all four crew termined whether the 
Robert Brown also said the disaster was incomprehensible to human understanding. 
"God's way and man's way are different planes. As far as the clouds are above the ocean ... so much higher are God's ways than the ways of man," Brown said. 
A framed photograph of Arnold sat amid roses on a pedestal next to his closed wooden coffin. A childhood friend remembered Arnold as a compassionate, hard-working 
~·~·~ 
Valentine Special 


.. 

2 for Lunch 2 for Dinner 2 for Snack 
Serving 

., ~:~~',:h~urs
Notre Dame Moo: th~·Thurs•. · 11:00 a.m.-1:00 a.m. 
Fri. & Sat. ,.., 11:00 a.m.-3:00a.m. 
-;'!>;

St. Mary's 
Sunday Noon -Midnight
Limited South Bend Area 
·-----------------~---------------~--------------~
i 2 for Lunch 
1 I lLg 2 Toppings
2Cokes 
; 
1 $8.00 +tax
1
I 
I open -4:00pm I Feb 13,14,15,16 
1 
person. 
Funerals are scheduled through Tuesday in Evansville for its crash victims. P&I lost nearly one-third of its work­force. 

Earlier Sunday, Gov. Brereton Jones addressed about 3,000 people attending a memorial service in a Louisville airport hangar for the plane's five crewmen. All five were mem­bers of the 123rd Tactical Airlift Wing based in Louisville. 
: 2 for Dinner : 2 for Snack : 
1

; 1 Lg 1 Topping 
1

1 1 stix 
I 

I 4 Cokes I 
: ;
I $10.00 +tax 1 1 1 
: F4:0b0 -10:00 pm ; I e 13,14,15,16 I 
1
Cheese Stix 
1
Bread Stix 
I 
2Cokes 1 
:
$6.00 +tax I I 
10:00 pm-close : Feb 13,14,15,16 I 

"=+.:-'+;:~··-----------------·---------------..---------------.. 
Monday, February 1 0, 1992 The Observer 

Panelists attending last Friday's discussion, "Student Journalism at Notre Dame," include Jack Powers, a '52 grad and former editor of the South Bend Tribune, center right, and Kelley Tuthill, editor-in-chief of The Observer, far right. 
~·~:~PARIS DISCOVERIES 
SUMMER PROGRAM 1992 lntersession: May 25 -June 12 Summer Session: June 15-July 24 
A More than 50 regular offerings from the University's liberal arts curriculum. A Athree-week French language immersion program, featuring cultural walking tours and conversation sessions . A Ashort course on the new Germany culminating in a five-day study trip to Berlin. A Weekend excursions: Normandy, Champagne, Loire Valley chAteaux, and Giverny. A Seminar tours with the University of 
N'f~J~~~~~~~~~=~b~ • ..,"'"""~\"'"  Texas &the University of New Hampshire.  
Send for our 1992  
Summer Progr•m Brochure:  
The American Univeralty of Parle  
Summer Programs/U.S. Office  
80 East 11th Street, Suite 434  
New York, New York 10003  
Tel. (212) &n-4870 Fax. (212) 475-5205  
THE  
AMERICAN UNIVERSITY  
OF PARIS  

Applications are now being taken for the: 
cru.LTll1(.9LL 'lJl'11E1?.SrpySf£:MI9\L.:4.!1{ 
CHICAGO: Spring Break, March 8-13, 1992 THEO 364F or SOC 364F Join us for a unique experience of and reflection upon cultural diversity: PARTIAL SCHEDULE Sunday, March 8th 
Gospel Mass at Holy Angels Church 
Visit Sears Tower Observation Deck 
Orientation/Discussion over Chicago Style Pizza at Giordano's 
Monday, March 9th 
Visit Olicago Board of Trade (to discuss Futures Trading, etc.) 

Lunch at State of Illinois Building Tour of Mexican Murals Dinner at Cuemavaca Restaurant Blues at the The Checkerboard Lounge (optional) 
Tuesd~y. March lOth 
Neighborhood Tours Street Safety Workshop with Chimera (A women's self-defense organization) 
Wednesday. March II th 
Tour of African American Communities Visit Dusable Museum of African American History Lunch: Soul Food Serve evening meal at the Franciscan Outreach Center 
Thursday. March 12th 
Visit Bucktown/Wicker Park Community Northwest Arts Council (to discuss the role of the arts in social change) Lunch at Polish Restaurant: The Busy Bee Puerto Rican Cultural Center Attend play by the Latino Chicago Theatre Company: Once Five Years Past 
Friday March 13th 
Meeting with Msgr. jack Egan (Chicago organizer and former Notre Dame administrator) to discuss Catholic Social Teachings, relevant issues Wrap·up over Chicago Pizza 
Return to Notre Dame in the afternoon 
The Cultural Diversity Seminar is organized by The Center for Social Concerns in conjunction with the Dept. of Sociology and the The Urban Life Center in Chicago. Applications are available at the Center and are due: Wed., Feb. 12, 1992 For further information, contact: Dr. Jay Brandenberger -239-5293 
page 9 

US encourages use of tobacco abroad 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The needed to manufacture a high­Agriculture Department is giv­quality cigarette in Turkey, ing tobacco farmers $3.5 mil­Korea and Taiwan. lion this year to promote their The state cigarette enterprise product overseas as smoking in Bulgaria has asked for tech­becomes increasingly unpopular nical help and the association is in the United States. trying to determine how it can 
Tobacco Associates, a group help Russia. of Southeastern tobacco grow­ers, already has spent $3.36 
In Turkey, where Tobaccomillion in federal money be­Associates has been workingtween 1987 and 1991 helping since 1987, the group helpedgovernment-owned cigarette the state cigarette monopolymonopolies abroad make a develop an American-style ci­smoother, blended cigarette garette, the TEKEL 2000.

using American leaf. 
When the TEKEL 2000 was

The grants are part of a 
introduced in 1988, Turkey im­$200-million-a year program to ported little raw U.S. tobacco.

promote U.S. foods and farm Last year, it was the fourth­products abroad. For the to­largest customer and overallbacco industry, export markets sales top $100 million. 
have become increasingly im­portant as health-conscious Americans give up cigarettes. 
Agriculture Department offi­

"There is a significant smok­cials praise Wayne's program
ing population in the world, as one of the success stories of 
and there's a growing demand 
the Market Promotion 

for a high-quality American Program, which also helps pro­
blend cigarette. We want them ducers promote exports of to contain as much American 
farm commodities, foods, wine 

tobacco as possible," said Kirk and bourbon. 
Wayne, president of Tobacco But health activists and crit­Associates. 
ics in Congress object to usingTotal exports of U.S. tobacco the money on tobacco.

last year are estimated at $1.5 
"I think it is exporting death. 

billion, up from $1.4 billion in It's not just a wasteful pro­1990. 
gram, it's a deadly program,"

"Without question, there was said Rep. Peter Kostmayer, D­
over $50 million worth of new 
Pa. sales generated last season USDA officials, however, say
alone as a direct result of our Congress has ordered the de­
program," said Wayne. 
partment to promote farm 

The number of U.S. smokers products and tobacco is justhas dropped 32 percent in the 
that. 

last 22 years, according to the American Heart Association. In "Unless someone makes a the last few years, hundreds of judgment that the U.S. 
communities have enacted Department of Agriculture
smoking bans and most short 
should not assist tobacco domestic flights are smoke farmers, we're going to pro­free. Smoking is forbidden in mote the product," said Steve 
many offices, hospitals, stadi­Censky, associate administrator ums, casinos, theaters and of the Foreign Agriculturalother public places while some, service. such as restaurants and hotels, Backers of the program also 
separates puffers from non­stress that the money is beingsmokers. used only for technical assis­
Wayne said the association tance and that it's not promot­has used its federal money to ing cigarettes to consumers, provide the "nuts and bolts only the use of U.S. tobacco type of production techniques" over someone else's. 
u:::·~ 
'ij5\-.-.r.: r@c~---~.
·?.J. urt1e .~ /reeK 
Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 
2/1 0 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
Celebrate 
Black History 
Month with 
Books from 
LIHie Professor 
Enjoy the Voices of a Vast History with 
• 
words that struggle for freedom 

• 
words that offer hope for the Mure 

• 
words that tell a story 


We help 'YOU find books 'Vou'/1/ove. 
Highway 23 at Ironwood Southbend, IN 46637 (219) 277-4488 Mon.-Sat.: 10:()()..9:00 Sun.:l0:()().5:00 
A member oflhc LJU.Ic Protc.or family of kx:aJJy-ownocs tiOGPtOre&. 
page 10 The Observer Monday, February 10, 1992 
Study: crime rates among blacks have not improved 
CHICAGO (APJ -Rising in­come and educational levels since World War II were ac­companied by a drop in crime rates among whites but not among blacks, said a study re­leased Sunday. 
The findings challenge "one of the most widely held as­sumptions of postwar society," namely that liberal social pro­grams can reduce crime by ameliorating soeial and eco­nomic injustices, said the study's author, Gary Lafree of the University of New Mexico ih Albuqunrque. 
Lafree also found that an in­crease in the numbnr of broken families was not accompanied by a rise in crime among blaeks. 
"Blacks were making dra­matic educational strides in the 1960s and 1970s at exactly the time crime in blacks was ris­ing," Lafree said. Family in­come among blacks also in­creased during that period, he said. 
"What we're trying to do now is figure out why that is the case," Lafree said at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. 
One explanation might be that rising education and income levels among blacks created expectations for jobs that the economy couldn't meet, he said. The most dramatic rise in education and income among blacks occurred in the period from 1969 to 1973, at precisely the time the economy stalled, Lafree said. 
He said his findings were ob­tained by correlating such things as measures of education and income with the Federal Bureau of Investigation's uniform crime reports. 
Lafree said he plans further studies to try to determine whether periods of greater so­cial protest are related to changes in crime rates. 
Charles Tittle of Washington State University said Lafree's study was "provocative and in­teresting." Tittle is editor of the journal Criminology, where Lafree's study will be published in May. 
"It's a pretty unusual finding that these variables appear to be different for blacks and whites," he said. 
Billy Tidwell, director of re­search at the National Urban League in Washington, said he was concerned that the study could encourage efforts to abandon social programs. 
"There are public officials who would seize such results as justification for the retrench­ment from social programs that's been under way since the 1980s," said Tidwell, who had not seen Lafree's study. 
"I don't want to dismiss it out of hand," he said, but "it flies in the face of not just conventional wisdom but also what we know empirically about rehabilitation programs for delinquents, like the Job Corps. Programs like that have shown that by giving individuals alternatives ­they're likely to take them." 
Lafree said he, too, was con­cerned about potential political misuse of the findings. "Obviously I'm not arguing for some sort of a decline in educa­tional commitment," he said. 
He did say, however, that the rationale for the liberal social programs of President Lyndon Johnson's "Great Society" were "too simplistic." 
"The expectation you're going to get lower crime rates by raising educational levels -it's more complex than that," he said. 
Black education and income levels rose in the 1960s and 1970s, Lafree said. Black rates of robbery and homicide in­creased three-to four-fold during that period, he said. 


You'veJustBeenOeared ForTakeOff 

Depending on where you fly, each the Card will say a lot about you. For one school year travel certifi-thing it says you have a handle on what youyou set your sights a little ....~-; cate is good for spend, so you don't have to carry over abal­
higher. Which 1 ance. It also says youre smart enough not to
$129 or $189 round-is what applying trip-and each summer travel pay interest charges that can really add up.
for the American Express• 
certificate is good for $149 or ...-----------------, So take a few minutes
Card is all about. When you get the 
Airfare examples now to call (have
Card, its easier to do the things you want $199 roundtrip. based on destination. b k dd 
. h d YourSc:hool your an a ress
to do. And with the student savings that 
Savmgs t at upgra e Roundrri.,. v••,Fare and account number come along with it, you can do even more. your lifestyle. New York-los Angeles $189 ready), and apply
Boston-Or\ondo $129

Fly roundtrip on Continental As a student Car dmember you San FranciJCo-O.nver $1Z9 for the American 
for less than $100 each way. get more than great travel sav-. Express Card. Student Cardmembers receive four travel ings. You also save money on everythmg With all that the Card offers you, not certificates. They can be used to fly any­from clothing to long distance phone calls. even the sky is the limit. 
All for a $55 annual fee.

where Continental Airlines flies in the 
Obviously, savings like these say a lot THE CARD.
48 contiguous United States. Two for the 
about the value of the Card. And having THE AMERICAN EXPRESs-CARD. 
school year, and two for the summer~ 
Getgoing, calll-800~967~AMEX. 
If you're already a Card member, there's no need to call. . . . . 
•School tar il conlick:red Se t. 1-June 14, summer June 15-Aug. 31. Complete terms and condltiona o~ th_i~ travel offer wlt\ arr&v~ ~·th ,vour ccruficatcs. 
Conti~ental Alrline• alone~~ reaponaible for fui61Jment of this offer. American Express aaaumea no hab1hty for Continental Alrl&nes performance. ~ 1992 American Expre11 Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 


Business 
Monday, February 10, 1992 page 11 
Roundtable focuses on Japanese-American trade 
By ANDREW RUNKLE VN Tek, a steel manufactur­the job, while American work­Business Writer ing plant in New Carlisle, In., is ers spend 1800 hours per year. 
A Notre Dame Council on In­currently the largest joint ven­Fudaba said that this dis­ternational Business Develop­ture between United States and crepancy in hours has fueled ment (NDCIBD) roundtable dis­Japanese business. the recent comments about the cussion focussed on the current Fudaba suggested three nec­American work ethic. state of Japanese-American essary changes. Fudaba also suggested that business and trade relations First, Fudaba suggested that U.S. domestic problems needed Thursday at the Morris Inn. Japanese executives change to be resolved. He recom­
Kazuhiko Fudaba, manager of their management approach. mended that American man­
technology at liN Tek Inc., He suggests that Japanese ex­agement set long-term goals, focused his address on solutions ecutives lower the working like Japanese management. for improving the trade hours which they spend at the According to Fudaba, American imbalance and trade relations office. Fudaba said that the owners force management into between the United States and average Japanese worker too many "quick fixes" to im­Japan. spends 2300 hours per year on prove profits immediately. 
Toy manufacturers optimistic about upcoming sales and Toy Fair 
NEW YORK (AP) -A decid­portunity to pick up sales from dustry analyst with L.H. Alton & edly different tone will mark the aging Teenage Mutant Ninja Co. in San Francisco. this year's version of the annual Turtles and increasingly bacchanal of games, dolls and expensive video games. Toymakers, whose business action figures known as Toy was stagnant in 1989 and 1990, Fair. There's real optimism "The manufacturers are a little had a better 1991. Consumers, underneath the forced gaiety more upbeat about this year although still worried about the and media hype of the indus­... , " said Frank Reysen, editor of recession, spent more freely on try's biggest trade show. the trade magazine Playthings. toys for Christmas, especially The doldrums that clouded the "There's a hunger for for traditional items like dolls 1991 Toy Fair seem to have something new and not the and games that are the dissipated. Industry leaders same stuff we've seen the last backbone of the U.S. toy in­Hasbro Inc. and Mattei Inc. are three or four years." dustry. coming off a strong year, and "Things look pretty positive," Toy company stock prices re­smaller companies see an op-agreed John Taylor, a toy in-flect the turnaround. 
He also suggested that Amer­ican businesses look to develop­ing foreign markets more ex­tensively. He believes that U.S. business must expand to foreign markets in order to improve trade. 
Fudaba quoted the book, "Made in America", to identify common U.S. problems in busi­ness. Fudaba said that he has observed that management and labor are much more integrated and in touch with each other in Japan than in the United States. 
He suggesting a narrowing of these inter-business boundaries to solve domestic problems. 
Finally, Fudaba recommended increased business contacts between America and Japan. Joint ventures, like VN Tek, will only help international relations and the trade imbalance, he said. 
He also encouraged increased understanding of both cultures to lessen the friction between business and political leaders from both countries. 


Ih~Obsenrer.= Applications are now being accepted for the following paid positions: News Editor Advertising Manager •Applicants should have news writing and editing experience •Applicants should be Business majors with an interest in management, •Responsible for managing assisting editors and reporters advertising and/or sales •Responsible for content and accuracy of daily News section •Responsible for managing advertising representatives and clerks, seeking and generating advertising revenue Viewpoint Editor •Applicants should have editorial and fact-checking experience Ad Design Manager •Responsible for letters to the editor and Viewpoint columns •Applicants should be management-oriented, familiar with Macintosh •Responsible for managing assisting editors and columnists MacDraw and computer-assisted design •Responsible for design and layout of advertisements Sports Editor •Must work closely with design staff and Advertising Manager •Applicants should have sports writing and editing experience •Responsible for managing assisting editors and reporters Production Manager •Responsible for daily Sports section, generating special sections and •Applicants should have newspaper production experience, especiaJJy travel accommodations for road games Macintosh QuarkXPress 3.0, design and layout •Responsible for night production editors and design staff •Work closely with department editors on design and layout Accent Editor •Applicants should have features writing and editing experience Systems Manager •Responsible for assisting editors, reporters and columnists •Responsible for maintaining and updating service of Macintosh network •Responsible for daily Accent section, generating story ideas, overseeing and Linotronic processing system ETC. and other special issue sections •Responsible for managing typesetting department •Responsible for training Observer staff on use of entire system Photo Editor •Applicants should have photography and developing experience Observer Typesetting Director•Responsible for coordinating photographers and lab technicians -Knowledge of Macintosh and IBM desktop publishing necessary•Must work closely with department editors in assigning photos •Responsible for managing typesetting business, soliciting revenue and completing assignments for clients in the community Saint Mary's Editor •Responsible for managing Saint Mary's department editors and Controllercoordinating efforts with Notre Dame staff •Applicant must be a junior accounting major •Responsible for generating story ideas on Saint Mary's campus •Responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, •Responsible for Observer office on Saint Mary's campus accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties To apply, submit a three-page personal statement and resume to Monica Yant by 5 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 12. For more information or further job descriptions, call The Observer, 239-5303.  

Viewpoint 
page 12 Monday, February 10, 1992 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager .•.••.Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .....•............ Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor •••..••........ David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor ••••.•••............ John O"Brien Systems Manager ........••...... Mark Sloan Photo Editor ••••••••...Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ...••••.•...Emily Willett Controller ..•••.••.••......•... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor. News Editor. Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters. is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Turnout poor for NO hoops 
Dear Editor: 
Our apologies to the Notre Dame basketball team and coach John MacLeod. the poor turnout and embarassing non­display of emotion at Tuesday's Detroit game was appalling. For those of you who did not attend, which is most of you reading this, the turnout was extremely poor, and those who attended displayed a huge lack of the so-called "Notre Dame spirit." 
We were under the impres­sion that Notre Dame students displayed a show of support at athletic events by standing up through the entire game and cheering in a loud manner. At Tuesday's game however, we were told to "Sit the f-k down" by students sitting behind us. 
God forbid that we should dis­rupt their view of the game. 
At the Michigan football game, it took stadium security to make the ND students sit down, but this type of spirit is not shown for the basketball team-oh, unless we are on national TV. We heard a comment Tuesday night, "Sit down it's only Detroit" -well we just lost to Detroit, no thanks to those spirited fans. 
Why is it that other schools, regardless of their record, continue to sell-out games, while Notre Dame students continue to sell out? It is time for students to gett off their butts, start going to the games, and support their team. To those who go, keep up the good work, maybe we can show John MacLeod and the basketball team that this is not a one sport school. 
To everyone else, we notice that Michigan is sold out, please don't forget that Marquette, Loyola, and Xavier are also on the schedule. To proudly proclaim "We are ND", you must first make yourself part of the "We." We should not have two student bodies, those who root for the football team and those who root for the basketball team. 
Sean O'Reilly Mike Van der Ven John Long John Noris Chris Caracciolo Pat Barth Grace Hall 
Feb.4,1992 
NO should show more spirit 
Dear Editor: 
As a recent graduate of the University of Notre Dame (1 <JH8) I have been somewhat dismayed at the lack of fan support and overall fan involvement with the Irish Men's Basketball Team. Admittedly the tmtm has strug­gled and is now going through a transitional period from the !'help's era to the MacLeod reign, however, this is no nxcuse for the general apathy that I have observed viewing several honw games on tnlevision. 
More recently I watched the Irish lose to the University of Detroit Mercy 72-70 at the JACC. I was shocked to see the lack of students at the game and the lack of noise generated 

80Y5.' (j/RJS! TIRW a= /.iJ5/NG 5/N6/N6 CNGAGCMeN75 fJCCtJJJ5e OF RUMa<s UNKJN6 YOU 7V A Pf?e5/0t3NTIA/... CANO!c¥/Tt3~ 510< 
OFAU 7Ht3 tl£5 
ANOac&IT? 
/ 
by those who were in attendance. Granted the opponent was not a high-caliber team and the game was on a school night, but, the Irish can­not be expected to play the Dukes, DePauls, and North Carolinas every night, and I know for a fact, having gradu­ated only four years ago, that the student body is not holed up in cubicles at the library on a Tuesday night. 
The AC (now JACC) used to be one of the most feared arenas in the country. Teams such as North Carolina and Kentucky did not want to play the Irish in South Bend. It is upon the stu­dent body to recreate that atmosphere. 
This Sunday a cocky, young and very good basketball team 
tutU, NOtu Y(X) CAN COM6 FOR.­a!ARP-WITHOiJTHAVING 70 TAtK 70 ~& 5WtA7Y, OV&I<­IU61GHT TABlOIO R£POI<TeR. .' 
Yes, TH/5 SYNO/CAl£0 FAMIL..Y 
\ FeATURC/S INTCRESTW 
IN YOUR 
57Df<'l.l 
from Ann Arbor will be at the JACC. Let them know that the Irish will not be pushed around in their home arena. Shaking Down the Thunder is not re­served for the Football team. Show the Notre Dame players, the Michigan players and a na­tional television audience that there is some life left in Notre Dame basketball and the Notre Dame student body. 
If the Irish are victorious on Sunday and the "sixth man" plays a major role by being too loud that the Wolverines cannot even think, I will believe that this letter will have been worth the effort. 
Brian D. Broderick Off-campus 
Feb.5,1992 
ND should make effort to help families attend JPW 
Dear Editor: not attend. I wish we all could 
Only one more week before be endowed with great mone­JPW. Wow! I remember, when I tary funds. Yet, look on the was a freshman, the upper­bright side: University Foods classmen telling me how pays students money to work as excited they were to meet their servers during JPW. friends' moms and/or dads. Too bad we, the Notre Dame Last year as a sophomore, I Family, do not care enough or remember the disappointment fail to act to change the fact many juniors experienced as that some juniors cannot attend they learned their parents -due to the lack of funds for would not be able to attend those who cannot afford the because of the terrible current expenses. JPW: A snowstorm. Unfortunately, chance to meet families that Mother-nature is not always on can afford it. our side. Some people say that I'm too 
But, even more upsetting is idealistic to expect the Notre what I have learned about JPW Dame community to raise as a junior. This year, not all enough money to give all ju­my fellow classmates' parents niors' parents the opportunity will be attending JPW either. to attend. Maybe. But, did we Do I smell a snowstorm in the even try to open the opportunity air? No -yet, I have learned to any of those parents unable that there are families that are to attend? Or could we have not able to afford the expense put some extra effort and work of JPW(Airline ticket, hotel to help more parents attend room, dinners, etc.. can exceed JPW? $500). 
The extra expense of JPW I blame myself for not aeting cannot be met by the families sooner, but there are also other that already find the high cost people who failed to reach out. of tuition over-bearing, espe­It is time to stop feeling sorry cially the families that require and do something to prevent their children to work during this and other humiliating oc­the semester to pay for tuition. currences. "Bummer." "Oh, that's too bad. Tony Gentine .." ''I'm sorry..." as class­St. Edward's Hall mates console those who can-Feb.3, 1992 
Correction 
In last Friday's Viewpoint election special, Molly O'Neill's experience (of the Butrus/O'Neill ticket) should have read: Lewis Hall Co-president; Voting Member, Student Senate; Sophomore Class Teasurer; Member, Colloquy 2000; Freshman Class Council." 
The Observer regrets the error. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'It is tempting to deny the existence of evil, since denying it obviates the need to fight it.' 
Alexiz Carrel 
Vote today, submit tomorrow: 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND,JN 465.56 

Accent 

The revitalized Disabled Transpo system, under the direction of Mike Cipriano and Russ Singer, averages just under 300 pickups a week. 

The Disabled Transpo service is cultivating a kinder, gentler image 
By JIM VOGL 
Accent Writer 
They don't drive leisurely like golfers. They are not the average cp~· 1s motorist who courteously yields to pedestrians .... e <. farmer does for his neighbor's cows. 
They are more like displaced New York cabbies without horns. They invade walkways around Notre Dame with reckless abandon, sneaking up on us pedestrians and endangering our safety. They use the carts as "chick magnets" and for their own convenience, or take the job just to earn an easy buck. 
These are the impressions most people have about the school's student-run Disabled Transportation program. But last year, two Keenan residents came to the Assistant Director of Security, Phil Johnson, with a proposal to improve Disabled Transportation and change negative perceptions. 
Mike Cipriano and Russ Singer submitted a four page policy handbook detailing the expectations of managers and of approximately ten drivers. Then they inherited the job. 
"If a student has a broken leg," said Cipriano, "they still have the right to get to class on time." He cited freshmen girls and Zahm residents as his most frequent customers. The program averages just under 300 pickups per week. 
In order to accommodate such a volume with only three carts, the process first involves coordination. The 
'[The Disabled Transpo service is] not to be a taxi for cute girls, a limo service for athletes to the Joyce ACC, or any such activity.. .' 
-Mike Cipriano 
two managers must post their names and phone numbers in all dorms, the Directory, Health Services, and Security Dispatch to make the service conveniently accessible to those who need it. Here, the 24 hour in advance policy is clearly stated. 
Next, managers must match available drivers with appointment times of the passengers. Often the schedules prove demanding for student drivers. "Some of our drivers go to incredible lengths for this service," said Cipriano, who cited difficulties that include 

The Observer I John T. Rock Transpo drivers often battle ice patches and heavy snow to deliver injured students to their classes on time. 
darkness, snow and irregular or unplanned pickup times (up to three at a time) as early as 6:30a.m.. 
Because of the constant urgency, a necessary axiom in the handbook is driver safety and courtesy. One concern that security had was the speed of the carts. During the summer, carts ran without the constraint of speed governors. "I could ride with the traffic on the toll road," said Cipriano. 
When students returned to crowd campus walkways, the speedy carts posed a potentially serious danger. After several complaints of fast driving, and even one from a faculty member who witnessed a part flying from a speeding cart, security re-instituted the governors. Responded Cipriano, "Now they're pathetically slow (5-10 m.p.h.)." 
Recently, a Disabled Transportation driver crashed a cart into a bench. Although no injuries were sustained, the cart was badly mangled and witnesses couldn't help but recall those old negative impressions. 
Having to explain the incident to maintenance, Cipriano sought the particulars and found out the cause was not driver negligence, but the cart's old, 
balding tires which lost traction on a patch of ice. 
Cipriano feels confident in his drivers. "We have a pretty good system of accountability. I think the number one reason is that I know the guys personally." 
For years the service had been funded by the Office of the Provost. Brother Bonaventure Scully, Keenan's rector, was once in charge of appointing a student in control of the annual endowment. Ever after, Keenan residents have adopted Disabled Transportation as a dorm service project. 
This year, Disabled Transportation is directly accountable to their new sponsor the Security Department. Singer must submit weekly reports on pickups, problems, repairs and a general budget evaluation of the DT division. 
Phil Johnson explained the role the security department plays in the program. "The real advantage comes from our ability to fill gaps when the carts are down. We're also staffed 24-hour a day... " But he admitted, "The real backbone of the program is the students who coordinate and drive." 
Johnson says despite a few complaints from weary pedestrians, he has received an overwhelmingly positive feedback from students, faculty, staff and visitors who use Disabled Transportation. And in his mind, their impressions are the most important of all. 
Legends have spread around Notre Dame about the phantom golf carts: true stories, like races around the lakes; and false ones, like drivers so reckless that they create new customers. 
Citing the policy manual, drivers must pledge, "not to be a taxi for cute girls, a limo service for athletes to the Joyce ACC, or any such activity that is not in line with transporting the disabled." While, as Cipriano admits, "it sounds corny," the new crew recognizes the seriousness of their responsibilities. 
Johnson is right; the success rate of Disabled Transportation cannot be accurately measured by a security report or a pedestrian's perception, but by the many satisfied disabled customers it helps. 
"Everybody we've driven this year is so thankful for our service," stated Cipriano. "We've made a lot of friends and have been pretty reliable. We want to change the perception of the pedestrian that the average golf cart driver is crazy." 
Today, we have kinder, gentler, slower, safer, more responsible Disabled Transportation driver. So lighten up, pedestrians. And look out behind you! 
page 14 The Observer Monday, February 10, 1992 
ally exposes those weaknesses." second of the game. Western Michigan again goal of the season. Notre Dame The Broncos went on to score stormed back to grab a 4-3 lead could not convert on opportuni­
Puck 
six more goals, making it nine Saturday's game was almost a in the second period. After two ties to tie the game, and sur­unanswered goals, before Irish mirror-image of Friday's. The Bronco goals in the third rendered an empty net goal
continued from page 24 
winger Lou Zadra would com­Irish jumped out to a 3-0 lead period, Dan Sawyer got the with three seconds left in the plete his hat trick on the last on Sterling Black's hat trick. Irish within one with his fifth game. 
match for Notre Dame 5-2. days, and Schwab posted three­Melissa Harris this weekend team that defeated Notre Dame "Bende and Bradshaw made a set victories at first and second after her competition in the 5-4 in the fall after falling
Tennis 
great comeback," said Irish singles, and Faustmann, Rolex National Indoor behind 4-2 in singles. 
continued from page 21 coach Jay Louderback. "They Tholen, and Vitale took Championships on Thursday "We fought hard and played played four great games to win straight-set wins at third and Friday. Harris, seeded fifth, really well this weekend," said the match for us." through fifth singles. In sixth defeated USC's Petra Schmitt 7-Louderback. "We've got
the first set. The Irish tandem In the second match, the Irish singles, Katie Clark lost to 5, 4-6, 6-1 in the opening round Tennessee next, and that will be fought back to take the second 
cruised passed Miami (Ohio) by Laurie Vetter 4-6, 6-4, 6-3 in before falling to Indiana's a great match. We're the un­set 6-3, but fell behind 5-3 in a 5-1 margin. Six singles were just here second match since a Deborah Edelman 4-6, 6-3, 6-1. derdog, which is good becausethe final set. However, the Irish played, with no doubles back injury sidelined her a year The Irish have two weeks off we can play loose. The girls areduo toughened up, taking four matched contested. Harris, ago. before their next match, against looking forward to playing
straight games to claim the 
playing her fifth match in four The Irish had the services of Tennessee on February 22nd, a them." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
$40,000/YRI READ BOOKS and Tickets Dear Brendan, The Lizard King lives on! Down with 
NOTICES 
TV Scripts. Fill out simple the Crustaceans! Freddy Mac's quotes of the Week: "like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun, Would you cuddle with me? relaxing at home, beach, vacations. 02/11 "There will be other quizzes damn it" 
USED TEXTBOOKS! Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 I NEED 2 UCLA Love, A Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days Buy & Sell Books Hour Recording 801-379-2925 B-BALL TIX! $279! Panama City $99, Padre "What does the book have to do Pandora's Books Copyright #IN11 KEB CALL BRET X1691 Gumbo! Drumstick $199, Cancun from Chicago $499, with anything ... Like I don't have 3 blks. from ND Jamaica $399. Call Lance 271-enough to read already." 233·2342/10-5:30 M-Sun 1681 or Lisa 283-4667 
YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK Need 1 NO/UCLA Waking Nose, or 1-800-638-6786. "I really don't think the content of 
TO LIVE! DO IT RIGHT! SPRING ticket what I've written is very TYPING AVAILABLE BREAK IN JAMAICA/CANCUN, Judy 239-6515 I am the culprit. meaningful." 287-4082. FROM $429! INCLUDES HOTEL, FAST EASY INCOME! 
AIR, TRANSFERS. Leeks in the Night Earn 1OO's Weeekly Stuffing 
SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-PERSONAL envelopes. Send self-addressed AVOID THE RUSH & LONG, LONG 7710. stamped envelope to: Extra income! Come see big, burly German men LINES. HEY BUTCHER!!!!!!! P.O. Box 811699 Chicago, IL at the Cavanaugh Hall Play. 
SUBMIT YOUR VALENTINE 60681-1699 February 27, 28, and 29 PERSONALS TODAY. 2 DOMERS NEED RIDE TO R.I. INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. You might think I am going to tell Washington Hall 8 p.m. STOP IN THE OBSERVER OFFICE OR ANYWHERE IN A 2 HR Good rates. Save Money. Call me you that Amanda P. loves you. Donations accepted for the Andy ANYTIME BETWEEN RADIUS FOR SPRING BREAK for a quote 9:30-6:00, Well, she doesn't, she hates you. Just because They don't recognize Sowder Scholarship fund 
8 AM-3:30PM DAILY. WILL PAY FOR GAS CALL KATE 289-1993. Office near campus. -your mother Us doesn't mean you don't exist. 3534 You're not alone. 
ANNUAL PHON-A-THON SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER BOSKI is too SEXY for his GL •• /SMC, Box 194, Notre Dame, To the "cute little red haired girl" benefits Woman's Care Center FOR RENT VACATIONS! Lizard King!!! IN 46556 sitting in section 3 row 14 or 15 on FEBRUARY 10-13 and Jamaica, Bahamas including the aisle during the Detroit game, FEBRUARY 17-20 from airfare, great hotel, and much more the taller of the two Rob's sitting a 
6 to 9 pm each night. 4-8 BEDROOM HOUSES FOR from only $599. Buy from the #1 PREGNANT? Irish Music and Dance couple of rows in front of you and to Development Office in the RENT FOR 92-93. HURRY, NOT name you trust for quality vacations. Young energetic, Indiana couple, Every Tuesday at Club 23 your left would like to know if you'd Admin. Bldg MANY LEFT. SECURITY FOUR SEASONS financially secure, wishes to adopt. SEAMAISIN like to go out sometime. Call me if interested, call Michelle at SYSTEMS, KEGERATORS. 1-800-331-3136. Mom is a teacher, Dad a 277-6932. 255-4595 287-4989. professional. We promise your child endless love; warm family values; Driving to NYC for Spring Break? ADOPT -Devoted father, full-time comfortable home; security; and a Have room for two lovely ladies? N.D. Best Buddies T-shirts!! 
floras para los muertos FOR RENT: 3 BD HOUSE 1 BTH mother seek newborn to join family. lifetime of wonderful opportunities; We'll help pay for gas. Call x2648 $10 at NOH & SOH TRILEVEL ON 5 ACRES. 10 MIN. We promise your baby love and close-knit supportive extended 2/11-2/13 (Tue-Thu) FROM CAMPUS $500.00 MO. 1ST understanding, a good education & family and friends. Great Valentine's Day gift!! II LAST + SEC. 684-3778. fun. Supportive grandparents. Medical & Legal expenses paid. raft, you are missed.
LOST/FOUND 
Legal. Call Bev & Howard Please call: 1-800-272-1084 (Ext. COLLECT 914-235-3917. 647). AND THEN DR. STAT SAID, 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY LEGAL & CONFIDENTIAL "LET ENEMA BE ANATHEMA," FOUND: 219-291-7153. There are enough weasels in AND THE PEOPLE REJOICED. Orange bike in Nieuwland Hall CAMPUS BANDS WANTED TO student government -it's time for a last semester. Here's the catch-I'm AUDITION FOR PROFESSIONAL Thought for the day: When salami is rat. not sure that it is not mine that was 6-7 BEDROOM HOME.SECURITY QUALITY MUSIC VIDEO. PLEASE eaten by hungry yellow VOTE WILBUR/GUS FOR Hey Jay-Wilbur and Gus have my stolen earlier in the year. If you can ALARM.FURNISHED.WALK TO CALL 283-3710 BY FEBRUARY 11. shoesalesman, does that mean that STUDENT BOD'i' vote, OK? Just pleeeze don't run prove that it's yours, call CAMPUS.FOR 1992-93.272-6306 Australian weatherman have the PRESIDENT NICE-PRESIDENT that martian budding strip again!!!!! Doc @ 234-1 048 right to purchase egg beaters for -Love, "Can I have a 

SPRING BREAK TO FLORIDA themselves? ride to Makielski's?" 
ROOM TO RENT. BEACHES. FUN IN THE SUN, All those other candidates are Found: scarf in niewland classroom USE OF ALL 4/RM. prices. Daytona $149, dorks. Vote for a cool rat and a Lost: hat. green and blue plaid UTILITIES/FACILITIES. CLOSE TO Panama City $139 Kitch, Wtrfrt & PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL kidney-shaped martian that gets Garth Brooks is a GOD. call1007 CAMPUS. NICE NEIGHBORHOOD Trans Available. Call CMI at 1-800-for only $199! 7 nights chicks. Vote Wilbur and Gus for 
& HOME. $225/MO. PAUL 232· 423·5264. at beachfront Ramada Inn Student Body PrezNP. 
2794. and bus transportation incl. I'm too sexy for Waylon and Willie Help! I Can't see. Call Barb 239-7667 for info. and the Boys !II Lost: GLASSES in black case on IT'S NOT TOO EARLY TO SUBMIT Deadline for sign-ups extended to Top ten campaign promises of Love, tuesday, perhaps in or near Bed & Breakfast for N.D./ St. Mary's YOUR VALENTINE PERSONALS. Feb. 14. Wilbur and Gus: Garth washington hall. If I don't get them families. 2 bedrooms, private bath. COME IN ANYTIME DAILY $75 non-refundable deposit due at 10) We'll get the Pope here for An soon I'll start flunking my classes. Ten minutes from campus. Safest BEFORE 3:30PM AND AVOID THE sign-up. SUB sponsored. Tostal. HeyBig Bro Steve Deick, 
Dave, x2187 neighborhood in area 234-2626. LAST MINUTE LINES. 9) One word: Velveetal you thought I was just kidding when 
8) Spelunker will start getting funny. I said I was going to put a classified 
Alicia, (Well, we'll try) in to you. Hope to see you around Found: Men's watch in the Final B & B Rooms for Parents YOU'RE GONNA VOTE FOR A I have spared you as of yet. ... 7) If we don't win, that silly cartoon more often. Not that you come and Exam room for Todd Whitmore's Weekend Call 271-0989 RAT FOR SBP ANYWAY, WHY about Gus "budding" wil run every visit or anything. Lil sis -Kathy War, Law, and Ethics during Fall NOT VOTE FOR SOMEONE WITH day for the next year! Exam Week. A LIFETIME OF EXPERIENCE? Beta Jeff, 6) Low-calorie and low-starch meal Inquire at Lost and Found in FOR SALE options for HPC members. Hesburgh Library. VOTE WILBUR/GUS Who is the best? Are you the best? 5) Less security on campus (we 
FOR SBP need a little excitement around 
macintosh plus, printer, &software. BBBRRRRRRRRRRRFFFFFIIIIIIIIIII here). REWARD!!! REWARD!!! $600. 4) Weekly nude photos of your REWARD!!! 287-7928 Vote WILBUR AND GUS for favorite officer of the University to Lost: Gold chain with half SBP. This is Notre Dame, you Sha up! be published in the Viewpoint heart pendant. 1/27 between haven't got anything better section of The Observer. SOH and JACC. CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED to do. 3) Big, strapping, hairy hunks will be VERY SENTIMENTALII!!IIIII!I 89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50, GOOD TO THE LAST DROP, hired to patrol the quads and Call Ryan x1134. 87 MERCEDES $100, 65 SMEGMA HOUSE distribute love. 
MUSTANG $50. Choose from Stop for a moment and think. 2) "A beer in every fridge and a thousands starting $25. FREE 24 Do you have any idea who the condom in every dresser" Hour Recording Reveals Details candidates for SBP really are? LEON-1) Garth Brooks!
WANTED 
801-379-2929 Copyright # Of course not. So vote for your old YOU ARE MY SUNSHINE Ill!I!! 1N11KJC friend Wilbur, Lord xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxo 
f 
of the Apathetic. LOVE Listen to what the great poets are CAMPUS BANDS WANTED TO AGNES saying about Wilbur and Gus: AUDITION FOR PROFESSIONAL Need any house PAINTING done? VOTE WILBUR QUALITY MUSIC VIDEO. PLEASE Experienced, quality painting hey nit I have a woody, 
CALL 283-3710 BY FEBRUARY 11. at reasonable prices. Call Mark at WRITE IN IS RIGHT ON I And its filled to the brim with pus 
277-6578. I'll hit you with it STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA if you don't vote for Wilbur and Gus. Info on semester, year, graduate, -William Shakespeare 
ND-SMC couple '81 offering FREE FENDER GUITAR AMP: Tube BUY SPRING BREAK TRIPS NOW summer and internship programs in ROOM AND BOARD for part-time amp, for practice/performing, to Bahamas, S. Padre, Cancun, Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Roses are red, summer help with toddlers. 2 inputs (high/low gain), tone, Panama City, or Jamiaca Melbourne. Programs start at Boogers are green, Barrington, IL area. Call 708-428· vibrato, exc. cond. 271-0138 From LISA at x4667. $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. Wilbur eats cheese, 1051. Trips are selling FAST! IF YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN! 
Don't be left outII -Robert Frost MOVING SALE: "must sell"-black SUMMER JOBS Vote for them! BE ON T.V. lacquer dining room set, 1 tan sofa ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
Many needed for commercials. w/ matching love-seat, 1 colonial Driving to/through Oklahoma PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS Now hiring all ages. For casting loveseat, desk, 1 colonial sofa, for Spring Break? Need ride, ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR info., Call coffeetable, rocker/ recliner, will help with gas/driving. LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-786· EVERYTHING YOU KNOW IS 
~-....,...._,....
(615) 779-7111 Ext. T-1678. portable color TV. Call 233-2588. Call Jon #1854 8373 WRONG!!!!!!!!!!I!I!!I!I!IIII!!!!I!III!!!!!! .. --~-~ 
,....._. ----._,....,___, ~ ---­

SCOREBOARD
Monday, February 10,1992 Page 15 
I

AP TOP 20 NBA STANDINGS 
TRANSACTIONS How the top 25 teams In The Associated EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Press women's college basketball poll fared Atlantic Dlvlalon BASEBALL 
Sunday: w L Pet. CE 
American League 
1. Maryland (20-1) did not play. New York 30 16 .652 
BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Agreed to terrps 
2. Virginia (20-1) did not play. Boston 28 18 .609 2with Bill Rlpken, second baseman, on a one­3. Stanford (17-2) did not play. Philadelphia 23 24 .489 7 112 year contract. 
4. Tennessee (17-2) did not play. Miami 23 25 .479 8 KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Agreed to terms 5. Iowa (17-2) beat Northwestern 90-72. New Jersey 19 28 .404 11 112 with Gregg Jefferies, Infielder, on a one­6. Stephen F. Austin (19-1) did not play. Washington 16 30 .348 14 year contract. 
7. Mississippi (20-1) did not play. Orlando 12 36 .250 19 TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Agreed to terms 
e. George Washington (13-4) did not play. Central Dlvlalon 
with Candy Maldonado, outfielder, on a one­
9. Miami (20-1) did not play. Chicago 39 9 .813 
year contract. 
10. Purdue (15-4) beat Indiana 73-54. Cleveland 31 14 .689 8 112 National League 11. Penn State (15-6) did not play. Detroit 28 20 .583 11CINCINNATI REDS-Agreed to terms with 12. Western Kentucky (15-4) did not play. Atlanta 24 23 .511 14 112 Bip Roberts, Infielder, on a one-year 
13. Vanderbi~ (15-5) did not play. Milwaukee 22 24 .478 16 
contracL 
14. Houston (16-5) did not play. Indiana 19 29 .396 20 FOOTBALL 
15. Hawaii (17-2) beat San Jose State 76-Charlotte 14 33 .298 24 112 World League of American Football 
63. WESTERN CONFERENCE SACRAMENTO SURGE--Named Bob Moran 
16. Southwest Missouri State (18-2) did Mldweat Dlvlalon 
wide receivers coach and Jim Niblack 
not play. w L Pet. CEassistant coach. 
17. 
Kansas (18-3) did not play. Utah 31 18 .633 

18. 
Clemson (13-7) did not play. San Antonio 27 19 .587 2 112 

19. 
Washington (13-6) did not play. Houston 25 22 .532 5 

20. 
Texas Tech (17-3) did not play. Denver 17 29 .370 12 112 Dallas 13 34 .277 17 Minnesota 8 38 .174 21 1/2 Pacific Dlvlalon 


Portland 32 14 .696 Phoenix 32 I 6 .667
A SPECIAL MARKETING TEST A MAJOR TRAVEL BROKER IS OFFERING 
Golden State 29 15 .659 2 
LA Lakers 28 18 .609 4 Seattle 24 24 .500 9 LA Clippers 22 25 .468 10 1/2 Sacramento 16 31 .340 16 112 Saturday'a Gamea 
No games scheduled Sunday'a Game As a special marketing test, we will send to There is no other product to purchase and there is All Star game West t 53, East 113 
EVERYONE WHO RESPONDS WITHIN 72 HOURS OF THIS PUBLICATION DATE. 
no charge for this special certificate. We will how­Monday's Gamea each person a free vacation certificate valid 
ever limit the number of certificates to be issued in No games scheduledfor a fabulous vacation to Honolulu, Hawaii. 
this market to those that respond within 72 hours ofThis certificate entitles the user to receive 8 
Tueaday'a Game a days and 7 nights of lodging for two people 
the publication date of this ad. The reason for this 
Indiana at Orlando, 7:30 p.m.and one free airline ticket, transfers, baggage 
special offer is that we wish to test the drawing 
Philadelphia at Miami, 7:30 p.m. handling and all taxes. You need pay for only power of this type of advertising and inform you of Charlotte at Atlanta, 7:30 p.m. 
one airline ticket at the reaular coach price. our special travel programs. LA Lakers at Minnesota, 8 p.m. Boston at San Antonio, 8 p.m. New Jersey at Chicago, 8:30 p.m. 
Detroit at Milwaukee, 8:30 p.m. 
Cleveland at Utah, 9:30 p.m.

{510) 820-3733 
Denver at Portland, 10 p.m.

CALL NOW! 
Houston at Seattle, 10 p.m. Washington at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. 
11 a.m. to 10 p.m. 
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Patrick Dlvlalon w L T Pts CF Gil 
( Graduate Student Union ufficer Elections ( 
( 
NY Rangers 35 18 2 72 212 
177 washington 32 4 235
19 68 184 New Jersey 28 18 7 63 203 
( 
165

Elections will soon be held for the positions of President and Executive Vice­
Pittsburgh 
22 6 5 53 203 214 NY Islanders 21 25 7 
49 202 214 Philadelphia 19 10 160 
President of the Graduate Student Union for the 1992-93 academic year. 
25 48 180 Adame Dlvlalon Montreal 32 4 141
21 68 179 9oston
All graduate student are eligible. J 
27 21 8 62 195 190 J 23 10 52 192 191
Buffalo 21 Hartford 15 10 184
28 40 160 Quebec 12 6 t59­
Deadline for submission of application: February 21 
36 30 222 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norrie Dlvlalon
Elections: Mid-March ( 
w L T Pts CF Gil ( Detroil 29 17 8 66 221 179 Chicago 25 10 180
21 60 167
( Letters of application should include names, phone numbers, and on-campus ( 
St. Louis 23 23 9 55 187 188 
Minnesota 23 5 172
addresses of both candidates on the ticket, and should be sent to: 
25 51 183 Toronto 
19 31 5 43 154 201 Smythe Dlvlalon
( 
Vancouver 30 8 154
Elections Committee 
15 68 190 Winnipeg 23 11 173
22 57 166
Graduate Student Union 
Los Angeles 21 21 I 2 54 191 203 
Edmonton 23 7 202
220 LaFortune 
26 53 209 Calgary 
22 25 7 51 200 194 ( 30 142 241
San Jose 13 38 4 
Saturday'a Games (
The following appointed positions will also be open: 
New Jersey 6, Boston 4 ( 
Los Angeles 4, Pittsburgh 3 

Philadelphia 3, Quebec 0 ( Toronto 6, Montreal 4 
Vice-President for Administration 
Secretary 
Chicago 3, St. Louis 1 

Sunday'a Gamea Late Games Not Included 
Social Officer 
Information Officer 
Washington 6, San Jose 2 
Boston 6, Pittsburgh 3 
Minnesota 4, Hartford 4, tie 

Track
I

Send letters of application for these positions to the same address. 
New Jersey 2, Quebec 1 I Los Angeles at Buffalo, (n) 
continued from page 20 
Detroit at N.Y. Rangers, (n)

If "nu have anv auestions stoo bv the GSl J office or call 239-6963. 
Monday's Game Vancouver at Montreal, 7:35 p.n 
Chris Lilly and Dan Amitie who finished second and third re­spectively in the 55-meter high hurdles and freshman Joe Royer who placed third in the 800-meter race behind winner Peppard. 
Peppard's time of 1:54.12 in the 800-meters qualified him for competition in the IC4A meet. The senior was voted the Male Outstanding Athlete of the meet based on his perfor­mances in the 800 and the 4 x 880 relay. 
Additionally, Piane was voted the MCC men's Coach of the Year. Kevin Donner of Detroit Mercy received the Coach of the Year honors for the women. 
Up next for the women is the Purdue Invitational while the men travel to Central Collegiate Conference Championships next weekend. 


Johnson's All-Star goodbye pure 'Magic' 
OHLANDO, Fla. (AP) -Clyde 
Drexler, overshadowed 
throughout his career by Magic 
Johnson. happily deferred 
again to the man who has kept 
him from becoming recognized 
as perhaps the best all-around 
guard in the Western 
Conference. 
"I don't think there's any better way to honor a player," Drexler said Sunday after Johnson seored 25 points and handed out nine assists to win the MVI' trophy in the NBA All­Star game. 
"Everybody on the court wanted to see him play. It was kind of magical." he added. "It was his moment and his game." 
Drexler, who scored 22 points and had nine rebounds and six assists in his first All­Star start. appeared to be on his way to winning the MVP award. But then Johnson, who hadn't scored in the second half, hit three straight 3-point­ers in the final 2:42. 
Drexler and the crowd of 14,272 at Orlando Arena cher­ished the storybook-ending for Johnson, who was voted into the game by the fans despite re­tiring in November after testing positive for the virus that causes AIDS. 
"The team kept telling me you've got it, you've got it," Drexler said of the MVP trophy. "I told them I didn't want it." 
Johnson received nine of 11 votes in the MVP balloting. The other two went to Drexler, who was appearing in his sixth All­Star game and the first in which he's received the most votes among Western Conference guard in fan ballot­ing. 
"He went out the way he wanted to go out -with a lot of respect," said Michael Jordan. "Everyone wants to go out with the respect of other players and the fans." 
East coach Phil Jackson said his team, trailing by 30 points midway through the fourth quarter, conceded the game and tried to soak up the atmo­sphere in what Johnson has said could be his last NBA game. 
"I think the last six minutes we kind of walked away from the game and let it happen," said Jackson. "I think we got out of the competitive mode and enjoyed the spectacle. Everyone knew we were watching something special." 

No one was happier for Johnson than his best friend, Isiah Thomas, who challenged Johnson to try to stop him de­fensively in the final minute, then watched Johnson throw in a rainbow 3-pointer over him in the closing seconds. 
"I said to myself, there is no way this shot is going to go in," Thomas said. "I turn around and there it was going down. That's just Magic. Special things happen for him. It was his day, a perfect way to end the game." 
Tim Hardaway, picked as an 
STUDENT RATES *Tanning Always Available* 

-Cardiovascular Area Ufecycles, Ufesteps, Liferowers, Lifestride Tread.m.ill -Over 40 Aerobic Classes per Week -13,000 lbs of Free Weights -Individual Exercise Programs 
CALL NOW 255-8080 
130 W. Edison Rd. Mish, IN 46545 
U.S. hockey wins opener Sweden, Canada, Finland also win 
MERIBEL. France (AP) -Guy Gosselin, a veteran of America's Olympic hockey struggles, knew the critics would crank up their voices if the U.S. team didn't crank up its game. 
Until the third period. 

Tim Sweeney, who played this year for the Calgary Flames, had a goal and two assists in the final period as the Americans went to work in the third period. They used their speed to whiz by the underdog Italians, wipe out a 3-2 deficit and win their 1992 Olympic opener, 6-3, Sunday. 
The United States has fin­ished seventh in the last two Olympics after gaining the gold in 1980. A slow start this year might have unleashed critical choruses. 
The next game is scheduled for Tuesday against ninth­seeded Germany, a 5-l loser Sunday to fifth-seeded Finland. In the other game, top-seeded Sweden, co­favorite with the Unified Team, pounded Poland, the 12th and final seed, 7-2. 
On Saturday's opening day, all the favorites -Canada, Czechoslovakia and the Unified Team -won. Sweden and Finl~nd also won as expected. For two periods, the fourth-seeded United States was in jeopardy of becoming the only favorite to lose. 
While the United States is a longshot for a gold medal, Sweden has a strong shot. The Swedes may scorn that notion, but they better get used to the idea. 
On Sunday, Sweden used superior skating to dominate Poland and amass a 42-9 edge in shots on goal. 
Hakan Loob, part of the 1989 Stanley Cup champion Calgary Flames and a 50-goal scorer in the NHL, and Lars Edstrom scored twice each for Sweden. 
Sweden wasn't at its best Sunday, but still cruised by Poland. Sweden led 2-1 after one period, then Loob scored twice in the second to build the lead to 5-1. 
extra reserve when it was de­cided that Johnson should not take an all-star berth from a deserving player, said Magic was the inspiration for the solid performance of the West team. 

IllALUM~N~I=====~ 
~CLUB 
STUDENT .MANAGER APPLICATIONS 
& 

JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM UP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPUCATION DEADUNE IS FEBRUARY 21, 1992 
on 

Survey on Sexual Harassment 
Monday, Feb. 1Oth 
7:00PM 

Library Lounge 
Questions, answers, follow-up,ideas, discussion. Sponsored By Faculty /Student Committee on Women 

Monday, February 1O, 1992 The Observer 
Team Dennis Conner sinking in America's Cup competition 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -Defiant ex­its . dominance over Team largest time advantage yet, tended its winning streak Dennis Conner in the America's crossing the line 4 minutes, 16 against Stars & Stripes to four Cup defender trials. seconds ahead of Stars & in a row Sunday as The Defiant won the second race Stripes. Pushed by southeast­Arnerica3 Foundation continued of the second round b its erly 12-to 15-knot winds off 

ORDER FARLY AND WIN A GIANT TEDDY BEAR FOR THAT 
SPECIAL SOMEONE 
Remember Your Valentine! 
11JXIDO DELIVF.RY WITH AU ORDERS 
SEND THE BIGGEST AND BEST­EVERLASTING LOVE ... $35.99 
A HUGE 6 FOOT BOUQUET WI1H SEVEN JUMBO BAllOONS AITACHED TO A CUDDLY BEAR 
10 OTHER SPECIAL DEUVERIES AVAILABLE 
BAIJAOON WORKS 
234-1431 
ive your Valentine a future! 
Sign up now for LSATcourse for June 15 test. 
Point Lorna, Defiant cruised around the eight-leg, 22.6-mile race course in 2 hours, 37 min­utes, 38 seconds. 
Stars & Stripes, skippered by Conner, the defending America's Cup winner, was faster than Defiant, skippered by Arnerica3 president Bill Koch, on four of the five legs sailed off the wind, but was no match for Defiant on the three upwind legs. Conner, who moved his mast forward between rounds, had trouble keeping his mainsail properly trimmed when sailing to weather, or into the wind. 
Defiant's victory gave the boat two points. Stablemate America3, sharing its name with that of the syndicate, leads the defender series with eight points. Stars & Stripes, winless in Round 2, has three points. Stars & Stripes' points were earned in the first round against Jayhawk, which has been replaced in Round 2 by Koch's newest boat, Arnerica3. 
¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥ 
; You're Invited To BriUon's ; ¥ Balloons, Cards, Gifts & Antiques ¥ ¥ Edison Plaza, 1627 Edison ~ 
~ (Adjacent to Jamison Inn) • 
Clip tb.b coupon and Bring it in for a 20% dbcount on your purchases. T ~ Good thru February, 1992 M 
I 

EDUCATIOIAL GROUP 
US 31 North We'll Make Sure You Make It! 

Heaven & Earth 
.Flowers, Balloons, Plants 
VALENTINE'S DAY SPECIAL 
1 Dozen Carnations in a Vase with a Mylar Balloon $20.00 
Across from Bob Evans on 31 North
WEDEUVER 273-2212 
Featuring Recycled Paper Cards & Gifts, Blue Mountain Arts Cards T M & Gifts, Far Side & Saturday Night Uve Cards & Gifts, Stuffed M T Animals, Victorian Prints, Jewelry, and Balloon Bouquet Specials T 
¥ ¥ Convenient Easy Shopping ¥ ¥ 
¥ Britton Knowles, Owner (219) 271-2001 ~ 
¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥ 
DIAL 27-ROSES 
FOR VALENTINE FLOWERS-CUT ROSES-BONSAI PLANTS ROSELAND FRUIT AND GARDEN CENTER{ACROSS FROM RANDAll.S INN) 
27-ROSES OR 277-6737 OR 272-7760 
YOU ARE OFFERID A $2.00 DISCOUNT ON THE PURCHASE OF A DOZEN ROSES, IF AND ONLY IF, WHEN YOU ORDER YOUR ROSES YOU TEU.l5 HOW MANY LEITERS ARE IN THE PHRASE, "THE HGHTING IRISH OF NOTRE DAME"! 
VISA WE DELIVER 
DON'T MAKE YOUR VALENTINE WAIT! 
Order your Valentine's Day flowers for early delivery on February 1Oth, 11th, or 12th 
~~~tf and receive a ~~-i]~~~~~~Sampler Box of Candy 
BSOLUTEL Y FREE! 


Llnda·s Flower Market 2128 South Bend Avenue South Bend. In 46637 
call 272-0902
"in town delivery only. 



The Observer 

page 18 
Perfect season ends for Irish fencers 
Wozniak went 5-2 to finish 23­
impressive 25-7 and 22-8
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
12, and seniors Craig Conner
records.
Sports Writer 
The strong Irish sabre squad and Ben Finley posted 5-2 and 
solidified their claim as the top 5-0 records, respectively. The Notre Dame men's and sabre team in the Midwest by Junior Per Johnsson(9-3) 
219 212 TNm (1.t;pt-ce vot"l Record Polnb 
women's fp,ncing teams com­turning in another impressive went 3-2 and fellow junior 18-1 592
1. (1) Duke (18.5] piP-ted their seasons in meet, highlighted by two 9-0 Geoff Pechinsky went 4-0 to 2. (2) Oklahoma State [1] 21-1 561 finish undefeated at 6-0. 3. (4) UCLA [2.5] 17-1 531
Champaign, Ill. this weekend, shutout wins against Detroit 
4. (3) Kansas 17-2 506
with the men capping off an­Mercy and Michigan State. As previously mentioned, the 
5. (6) Indiana (1] 17·3 502 other undefeated season by All of the sabremen turned in Irish women ran into some 
6. (7) Arizona 17·3 472 
7. (10) Nonh Carolina 17·3 465
sweeping past Detroit Mercy excellent performances, includ­trouble against Wayne State, 
8. (8) Ohio State 16·3 454
ing seniors Ed Baguer(7-0), but a bright spot was senior All­
26-1. Michigan State 25-2, 
9. (9) Missouri 16-3 350 
American Heidi Piper's 28-3 
10. (5) Arkansas 17-5 347
Wayne State 18-9, and Purdue Henry Chou(5-0), and David 
11. (11) Syracuse 16-3 344 
12. (13) Michigan State 15-4 330
19-8. Kirby's(5-0) unblemished season record. 
bSu

"Wayne is very strong," said
The men's team finished 23-0 records. 
14-5 274

13. (16) Michigan 
14. (12) Connecticut 16·4 265
last year and, coupled with this Baguer ended the season Irish women's coach Yves 
15. (15) Tulane 18-2 263
Auriol. "It was important for us
season's 14-0 record, they have with an astonishing 30-0 
3 16. (18) Alabama 19-4 238
retainfld an amazing 37-match record. second only in the Notre to support Heidi in case she 
17. (14) Kentucky 16·5 232 
winning streak. Dame annals to two-time slipped, but we were unable 
18. (21) usc 16-3 182 
19. (22) UNLV 19·2 151
The women finished a stellar National Champion Mike to." 
20. (17) UNC·Charlone 16-4 150
The Irish's senior contention
11-2 season with victories over Sullivan's 41-0 slate in 1978. 
21. (19) Oklahoma 14-6 102 
22. (-) LSU 14-5 96
Detroit Mercy and Purdue, both Chou also finished with a ster­performed well, as Mary 
23. (20) Georgia Tech 16-7 63
Westrick(28-8) went 4-2, Tara
by a score of 15-1, but ended ling 17-1 record. 
24. (23) Florida State 15-6 57
•

the year with a hard-fought 9-7 "Ed has joined the elite ranks Kelly(21-8) ended up 6-2, and 
25. (24) UTEP 18·3 52 
setback at the hands of arch­of fencers in the long history of Rachel Haugh finished at 24-15 rival Wayne State. Notre Dame," noted coach after going 5-2 this weekend. Senior Kelly Haugh, who has 
Others receiving votes: St. John's 34, Seton Hall 30, Louisville 28,
The men's foil squad turned DeCicco. 
Stanford 15, Georgetown 14, Memphis State 14, Wis·Green Bay 14,
Junior All-American James been tied up with outside com­
in an excflllent effort this week­
Iowa 8, Iowa State 8, Ball State 7, Wake Forest 6. Massachusetts 5,
petition for the entire season up 
Nebraska 5, Princeton 5, Colorado 4, Houston 4, Cincinnati 3, Penn
end. as junior captain Jp,fl' Piper Taliaferro added six wins and 
State 2, S. Mississippi 2. Georgia 1. Washington St. 1.
to this point, didn't disappoint
Jp,d the foilists to victories over one loss to his 25-6 season 
Detroit Mercy, Michigan State, record and senior captain Chris with a 9-1 showing. Junior 
Schools participating: Arizona, Ball State, Brigham Young,
5 

Colorado, Columbia, Duke, Florida, Kansas, Kentucky, Miami, Missouri, Nebraska, Notre Dame, Oregon, Oregon State, Penn, Penn 
and a tough Wayne State squad Baguer also went 6-1, finishing Kathy Vogt posted four more 
by compiling a perfect 6-0 the year 27-4. wins to add to her 24-15 slate 
State, Purdue, Syracuse, USC, Virginia. West VIrginia, Wisconsin. 
record. Piper was especially Turning now to the epee and sophomore Corinne 
impressive in a 5-4 victory over squad, where the Irish posted Dougherty ended up 8-1. 
Wayne State's Stef~m Schroeder, four wins including a dramatic ''I'm really happy with the 
one of his three wins in the comeback from a 3-0 deficit to way we finished our dual meet 
Irish's 5-4 victory. turn back Wayne State 6-3. season'" said Coach DeCicco. 2Jiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiTiiiheiiiOiiibiiiseiiirviiieiiir/iiiBriiieiiindiiiaiiiniiiRiiiegiiiaiiin~ 
"Now we will have to get 1
"I was very pleased with Jeffs "The epee team really showed 
win," said Irish head coach me something this week," geared up for the post-season." After competing in the 
GLACIER NATIONAL PARK, MONTANA
Mike DeCicco. "Jeff set the tone stated DeCicco. "Wayne State for the entire match." really put us to the test, and we Midwest Collegiate Open, the Also contributing to the Irish needed our best effort to come 
Irish will have to fare well in 
the Midwest Championships to
victories were seniors Ed through." 
Come have the best summer of your life. 
qualify for the NCAA's.

Lefevre(6-2) and Mike Trisko(5-Senior All-American David 
Enjoy the invigorating, challenging experience 
4). and sophomores Rian Calderhead finished an amazing ''I'm excited about our 
Girard(4-2) and Greg Ripple(3-33-3 season by going 7-1 on the chances," noted DeCicco. "We 
of living in the awesome Rocky Mountains. 
0). Lefevre and Trisko ended weekend, sophomore Grzegorz will be ready." 
their senior campaigns with 
Hoops 
continued from page 24 
including two-of-two from three-point range. 
Notre Dame shot 25-of-59 for 42 percent from the field. The Irish didn't fare much better at the foul line, shooting 11-of-21 for 52 percent. 
"We've got good kids and they're hungry to get better," said Fisher. 
That's a scary thought for Big Ten teams. 
Rolex 
continued from page 21 
the event. In the final, he de­
feated Rice's Steve Campbell 6­
4, 6-7 (5-7), 7-5. 
This weekend, Noriega con­
tinued his role as Irish-killer. 
Last spring, he defeated 
DiLucia in the semifinals of the 
NCAA singles tournament. 
•1HEfAMIIY SUCClSTS TJ--W MEMORJJ.\L CCNfRIBLmONS 
BE f'vW)E 1011-lE 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
~IETY•• 
-words that mean people want to honor a loved one and want to help conquer cancer. Send a Memorial Gift to your local ACS Unit 


The Nation's Largest Publliihcr of Campus Telephone Directories 
100 Europa Drift 
Sulte330 P.O.IIw<8830 Chapel Hill, NC 27515 1-919-961Hl2Z5 
1-800-74~5556 
SUMMER INTERNSHIPS 
OPPORTUNITYl 

Make the transition into the business world selling yellow page advertising for your campus telephone directory or for other campus directories nationwide. 
EXPERIENCE! 

Gain Valuable Experience in Sales, Advertising, Marketing and Public Relations. 
TRAINING! 

Five Day Expense-Paid Sales Training Program in Olapel Hill, North Carolina Train with 200 other college studentsfrom across the country. 
MONEY! 

$4,000 Average Earnings for the Ten Week Sales Period Opportunity for a Profitable Summer. 
Interviewing on Campus: Thursday,February13 
Sign-up: Career Center Hesburgh Ubrary 
St. Mary's Lodge and Resort, Glaicer Park's finest, now hiring for the 1992 summer season. Come see us on campus at the Career Placement Services, February 10th and 11th. 
Schedule an interview through your Career Placement Services now. Don't pass up the opportunity of a lifetime. 
lJpcoming Events 
~NESDAY.FEBRUAR¥12 
GEORGE S. HOWARD Profl'SOr, Department of Psychology "ON A CERTAIN BLINDNESS 
IN HUMAN BEINGS: PSYCHOLOGY AND WORLD OVERPOPULATION" 
[Paper awilable upon request.] 4:00p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
THURSDAY.FEBRUAR¥13 STEPHEN M. BATILL Director, llessert Center for Aerospace 
Research; Associate Profl'SOr, Aerospace and MKbanicaJ E.ogineering; Faculty Fellow of the .Kroc lmtitute 
IIAN ENGINEER'S VIEW OF 
SYS'fEM DESIGN, or 'WHERE 
DOES niE SYSTEM START 
AND WHERE DOES IT END'?" 

U:15 p.m. Conference Room 103 The Hesburgh Center 
Everyone Welcome 
INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAl
111111 ~;!~o7J;!~L:~

present this coupon when ordering; one complimentary dinner per coupon; Maximwn value $11.00, not valid with any other coupon, promotion; or towards crab, lobster or cany out dinners. 
..-------------~~----­
Monday, Februen..J 10, 1992 The Observer page 19 
Belles end home swim season with loss 
Working on the "little things"  
in practice last week helped the  
Saint Mary's swim team keep  
the score closer than expected  
against University of  
Indianapolis on Friday, 128-98.  
The Belles knew Friday's meet  
was going to be tough. This is to  
be expected when a Division III  
team competes against a  
Division II team, especially  
against a team that has "more  
guns." But Belles coach Dennis  
Cooper is impressed with how  
the Belles swam.  
"The final score was close for  
a Division II!Division III compe­ 
tition," said Cooper. "They have  
way more firepower than we do,  
but our girls stuck it out. It was  
The Saint Mary's swim tem finished out their home season on Indianapolis.  File Photo Friday with a loss to the University of  good to see out of our swimmers that they could keep coming back. Indianapolis couldn't let  

By CHRISTINE PENOTE 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
~················································· 
SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN HELPING TO MANAGE AND ACCOUNT FOR $400,000? 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEEDS YOU AS THE ASSISTANT STUDENT BODY TREASURER. 
THE ASSISTANT STUDENT BODY TREASURER AIDS THE STUDENT BODY TREASURER IN DISBURSING FUNDS FOR: 
• 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 

• 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

• 
HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 

• 
CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS


•+ 
t ~ THIS IS IN PREPARATION FOR YOUR BECOMING THE t ~'1r1UIIDJEW'1r IE3CQ)IIDY '1rJRIEA~lUJRIEJR THE FOLLOWING t YEAR.
• 
t APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT STUDENT t GOVERNMENT, 2ND FLOOR, LAFORTUNE BETWEEN : 8:00AM-5:00PM; t DUE ON FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14 BY 4:00PM. 
• 
t QUESTIONS, CALL 239-7417
• 
•
: 
• 
polishing up those finishing touches. 
: Irish men's 
+ volleyball wins in : coach's debut 
• By DAN PIER 
• Sports Writer 
If patience is a virtue, the Notre Dame men's volleyball team has practiced virtue as much as it has volleyball lately. After struggling through part of the season without a coach, the Irish waited over an hour to begin Friday's victory over Ball State in new Notre Dame coach Kim Reefer's debut. 
The Cardinals, after calling to report a problem with the team bus. arrived near 8:45 for the scheduled 7:30 game. Notre Dame had already begun an in­trasquad scrimmage to keep the modest crowd entertained. When the contest finally got underway, Notre Dame domi­nated 15-8, 15-11. Club presi­dent Mike Flecker was pleased with the team's performance. 
"We played very well as a team," Flecker said. "The 
starters had a great night, and the bench came in to do their job as well. It was a good all­
t around effort." The victory lifted Notre 
.• • t 
•t 

t 
Dame's match record to 3-0, despite recent struggles. The original head coach ran intot problems with time commit­ments and was unable to con­tinue. The Irish played in at tournament at Michigan with­out an official head coach. 
•: 

"We did not fare well in the Michigan tournament," Flecker explained. "You can attribute
t 
that directly to not having a coach. We needed to find direction." 
The team turned to Reefer for that direction. Currently an assistant with the women's vol­leyball program, she agreed to take over the men's position as well. The results have been fa­
vorable thus far. 
"Now that we have a coach, 

we look much better," Flecker 
• 
said. "Things are looking really 
good for us right now." 
The Irish will take on Toledo 
.• 

up at all." 
Three of four seniors boast success in their last collegiate home meet. Senior captain Michelle Colburn swam her lifetime best in the 200 back­stroke, just one second short of the school record. Kathleen Gloski, another senior captain, also swam her lifetime best in the 50 and 500 free while diver Carrie Cummins placed first on the 3-meter board with her best score of the year, 225.2. 
Junior Jennifer Danahy also swam exceptionally well in both the 400 IM and 200 breast. 
"I was pleased because my times are finally getting back to where they should be," said Danahy. "It makes you feel good about yourself to know th<l;t you 
can  swim  that well  even  if  
you're  as  exhausted  as  we  
were."  

In fact, the whole team seems pleased with Friday's outcome. And with Cooper as the team's spokesperson, the Belles will continue to "improve on the lit­tle things," but still work on 
tonight at 7:30 in the JACC pit.
'**ii**********i*******ii**iii*****ii*X***IXX**Z*zt 
The Observer Mondaw, February 10, 1992 
page 20 
Notre Dame runs all over opposition at MCC meet 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's track teams had a dominating day at the Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference Indoor Track Cham­pionships on Friday at the Meyo Track in Loftus Center. Both teams won their respective divisions in the meet. 
For the men, the victory marked the ninth consecutive time Notre Dame has won the event in its ten year history. In its fourth annual cham­pionships, the women's team captured its first ever MCC title. 
Needless to say, Notre Dame coach Joe Piane was pleased with the performances of his runners. 
"It was a fine meet for us," said Piane. "I am real happy for the ladies; they really competed very, very well." 
The women edged out strong teams from Detroit Mercy who finished in second place, Loyola who was an early favorite, but finished third, and Butler. 
Freshman Lisa Junek had a "heckuva night" for the Irish according to Piane winning the 55-meter hurdles and the high jump and finishing fourth in the 55-meter dash and the 200-me­ter dash. Her time in the hur­dles was a new MCC record while her high jump of 5-4 set a new Notre Dame Indoor record and a new Meyo Track record. 
The Irish women did well in the field events. Junior Karen Harris and freshman Susan Maher won the top two spots in the shot put final. Harris' throw of 44-8 3/4 was a new MCC record. In the long jump, freshmen Lisa Labin and Samantha Spencer placed third in their respective events. 
Freshman sprinter Monica Cox placed second in both the 55-meter hurdles and 55-meter dash with speedy performances. Freshman Kristi Kramer won the 5,000 meter race and set a MCC record at the same time. Sophomore Kristin Stovall also won her event, the 400, and set a record, but hers was a Notre Dame Indoor record. Senior captain Diana Bradley set yet another Irish Indoor record with her performance in the 1000-meter race. Freshman Kala Boulware finished third in the event. In the mile, freshman Sarah Riley placed second while classmate Eva Flood and junior Lisa Gorski made a strong tan­dem in the 3,000-meter race in which the pair finished second and third respectively. Flood's time was another team indoor record. 
The 4 x 880 relay team of Boulware, Flood, sophomore Laura Guyer, and Bradley crushed the opponents and cruised to a first place finish in addition to setting new MCC and Notre Dame Indoor records. 
On the men's side, the Irish won all but three events in a dominating performance that left Butler, Loyola, and Detroit Mercy far behind. 
"The challenge should have come from Loyola in the dis­tance and middle distance events, but they only won the mile," said Piane. 

Brian Peppard 

The meet featured several events in which the men claimed to top three spots. Notre Dame senior co-captain Ryan Milhalko, and sophomores Brian Brach and Brian Kubicki combined for a one-two-three finish respectively in the shot put. In the 55-meter dash, sophomores Tom Carter, Willie Clark, and Dean Lytle equalled the feat. Carter and Clark both qualified for the IC4A meet with their times. Finally, in the 1000­meter race, the senior trifecta of Greg Soroka, Neil Mulrooney, and Shawn Schneider also captured the top three spots. 
In addition, there were nu­merous events in which the Irish won the top two spots. Freshman Brian Headrick and sophomore Craig Christian made up the winning tandem in the triple jump while freshman 
J.R. Meloro and senior Kevin Keegan did it in the 5000-meter race. In the high jump, sopho­more Todd Herman qualified for the IC4A meet with his top finish; Headrick finished sec­ond. Both Lytle and senior Phil Casper qualified for the IC4A 
Favorites win in Big Ten action 
IU, Ohio State, MSU, Minnesota foil opponents 

J I 
File Photo 
Purdue's Travis Trice scored a career-high 21 points, but the Boilermakers still fell to the Michigan State Spartans. 
Indiana coach Bobby Knight and his Hoosiers were deter­mined not to repeat the fiasco that happened last year when they met the Iowa Hawkeyes, squandered a big lead and lost. 
That didn't occur Sunday. 
Damon Bailey hit eight of 10 shots from the field and scored 26 points and Calbert Cheaney added 17 points and 13 re­bounds as the No. 6 Hoosiers beat Iowa 81-66. 
In other Big Ten action over the weekend, No. 16 Michigan downed Notre Dame 74-65; No. 8 Ohio State defeated Purdue 71-59; Minnesota squeaked past Northwestern 57-55 and 11th­ranked Michigan State crushed Wisconsin 79-64. 
Indiana's victory over Iowa at Bloomington didn't come easy. 
"When they made that run in the second half, we knew we had to show a little guts and fortitude," said Cheaney, whose 11 second-half points halted Iowa's bid for another upset. 
"This was the best defensive effort we've had in the last couple of weeks," Cheaney said. "We put pressure on the ball and got ourselves in the passing lanes a little better." 
Indiana (17 -3, 8-1 Big Ten} used a 14-3 first-half streak to build a 17 -point lead. But Iowa (13-6, 5-4) closed to 41-30 at the break and within five mid­way through the second half before Cheaney, a 6-foot-6 for-
and scored. 
At Evanston, the Golden Gophers got a game-winning basket from Arriel McDonald with one second left to get past the Northwestern Wildcats (8­12, 1-9). 
Cedric Neloms had tied the game with a free throw with 13 seconds left, but he missed the second one and Bob Martin re­bounded. Minnesota called time and set up a play. 
The victory broke a  two­ 
game  losing  streak  for  
Minnesota (14-9, 6-4}.  

Size was a key to Michigan State's victory over Wisconsin in Madison. 
It was. Peplowski scored 19 points and had a career-high 16 rebounds. 
The Spartans (15-4 overall, 5-4 Big Ten} got rolling in the last seven minutes of the first half, outscoring Wisconsin 21-5 to take a 19-point halftime lead. 
Freshman Shawn Respert hurt the Badgers from the out­side -scoring seven points in the run and finishing with 15 in the first half-while Peplowski had 10 points and 10 rebounds in the first half. 
Wisconsin (11-11, 2-7) was led by 24 points from Tracy Webster. 
In Columbus, the Buckeyes (16-3, 8-1) got 23 points from Jim Jackson and 14 points from Jamaal Brown to down the Boilermakers. 
The victory was the Buckeyes' 30th in a row at St. John Arena, the second-longest home winning streak in the country. 
Travis Trice scored a career­high 21 points to lead the Boilermakers (12-9, 4-5). 
meet in the 200-meter event with their respective finish. Lytle also set a new MCC record with his time. Finally, in the 3000-meters, senior Pat Kearns and sophomore Jim Trautman finished also one-two. 
Single winners for the Irish included the men's 4 x 880 re­lay team of Schneider, sopho­more Hugh Mundy, Clark, and senior co-captain Brian Peppard, freshman pole vaulter Dan Grenough, Peppard, and the mile relay team of freshman Joe Curran, Casper, sophomore Miguel Conway, and freshman Richard Antoine. 
Other noteworthy perfor­mances came from sophomores 
see TRACK/page 15 

Couttttlt~ CJQoftigt 
& GIFTS. INC. BY DENNIS 
60805 U.S 31 SOUTH PH 219·291·3937 
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46614 
~ 

TANNING 
*SPECIAL* 

~~Rlio~ 
O~tf)~-'W-tfj
GYM. 

LIMITED TIME OFFER 

ward, moved into the middle I~............................................................................. 
IllALUMNI======SENIOR 
~!:CLUB 
STUDENT BARTENDER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM OP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 5, 1992 
,-------------------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Mondl!ly, February 10, 1992 The Observer page 21 

Coleman, Dilucia tandem lose in Rolex finals 
Observer Staff Report 
Chuck Coleman and David DiLucia, a day after knocking off the top-ranked doubles team in collegiate tennis, fell Sunday in the finals of the Rolex National Indoor Tennis Championships. 
In a victory which could drive Notre Dame's number-one doubles team back into the rankings, the pair came back from a one-set deficit to defeat Dan Kronauge and Paul Kruse of Ball State. 
However, DiLucia and Coleman were unable to keep their momentum on Sunday afternoon, and fell in straight sets to Jon Leach and Brian MacPhie of Southern Cal. 
Unranked at this point in the season, Coleman and DiLucia qualified for the tournament on the basis last year's end-of­season rankings. 
DiLucia, himself the second­ranked player in Division I, was the first seed in the singles bracket of this weekend's tour­nament, which brought as se-

Chuck Coleman 
lect field of 32 of the top play­ers to Minneapolis. 
But DiLucia's national prominence did not discourage the rest of the field, as the se­nior fell in losing a second­round match to Texas Christian's Tony Bucan, 3-6, 6­2, 6-3. 
Notre Dame's other entry in the singles field, Andy Zurcher, was victimized by Jose Luis Noriega in a first-round match, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4. Noriega, ranked seventh and seeded fourth at the tournament, went on to win 
see ROLEX!page 18 
Women win three over weekend 
By RICH SZABO Sports Writer 
Being favored in ·a contest always puts a little extra pres­sure on a team to perform up to expectations, but the Notre Dame women's tennis team had no trouble meeting those expec­tations this weekend. 
The Irish (3-1) won three matches in two days to ease the frustration of dropping a sea­son-opening match to Illinois that no one expected them to. 
On Saturday, the Irish smacked Kansas State 8-1, dropping only the second-sin­gles match. Melissa Harris led the way at first singles, dispos­ing of Karin Lusnic 2-6, 6-3, 6­
3. At second, Michele Riniker defeated Notre Dame's Laura Schwab 6-2, 6-2 for Kansas State's only point. 
Continuing the strong singles play, Christy Faustmann de­feated Mareke Plocher 6-3, 7-5 at third and Lisa Tholen beat Neili Wilcox 6-3, 6-1 at fourth singles. The remaining two singles contests proved to be a breeze for the Irish, with Terri Vitale pounding Suzanne Sing 
were supposed to win. At the same time, our main objective was to prove that we could play better than we did against Illinois. Illinois may have been a blessing in disguise." 
On Sunday, the Irish swept two shortened dual matches, with five singles (one point each) and one doubles match (two points) being played in­stead of the usual full slate. 
The Irish had their hands full against Drake, staking a 3-2 lead after singles. Harris was upset by Vera Vitels 4-6, 7-5, 6­2 at first singles, and Faustmann lost to Claudia Rodriguez 6-4, 6-4 at third. Schwab defeated Tisa Vail 6-2, 6-2 at second singles, Tholen knocked off Stacy Janikowski 6­3, 6-3 at fourth, and Vitale crushed Stephanie Dewald 6-2, 6-0 at fifth. 
With the score 3-2, the win­ner of the doubles match would claim the contest. Susan Hall and Darcy Maat jumped in front of Bende and Bradshaw 6-4 in 
see TENNIS I page 14 


MACQI JfWELEQS 
work done on premises 

• 14 Kl rt5 18 Kl Jewelry 
• 
Walnut Plaques 


• 
Cross Pen rt5 Pencil 6el @ Accessories EngrBving. Walch rt5 Jewelry Qcpair 


Qeg. lirs. -Tues. lhru Fri. 9-5:30. 6al. 10-'2 Holiday lirs. -Mon. lhru Fri. 9-5:30. &l. 10-'2 
526 E. LaSalle 233·2222 


~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer February 10, 1992 
Women lose weekend pair 
Special to the Observer 
Shari Saunder made her only three pointer of the game with thirty seconds reniaining pushing Dayton past the Notre Dame womens' basketball team 63-62 at the Thomas J. Frericks Athletie and Convocation Center on Saturday. 
The Irish led by as much as seven in the second half, but went scoreless in the final three minutes of the game. After struggling in the later part of the first half, the Irish found themselves down by six at tho opening of the seeond half. Dayton was able to maintain the lead, until conseeutlve baskets by Irish forward Comalita Haysbert tied the score 46-46 with 
10:28 left in the game. 
Notre Dame raised the lead to seven with just over four minutes remaining, but the Flyers held the Irish to only two points in the games final four minutes while scoring ten. 
Haysbort led the Irish with 13 points. Michelle Marciniak followed Haysbert with six. 
The loss to Dayton was the second in four days for Notre Dame who fell to Xavier 104­86 Thursday night. 
The Irish were able to keep it close in the first half, down only 46-45 at the game's halfway point, but Xavier ex· ploded in the second half and cruised to their thirteenth win of the season. 
Xavier was led by Carol Madsen's 26 points. Margaret Nowlin topped the Irish scoring column with 22. 
Are you two terms 
away from 
professional school? 
Northwestern College ol Chiropractic Is accepting applications lor ns Fall '92 and Spring '93 entering classes 
General requirements at time of entry include: 
a. 
Approximately three years of college in a life science or health science degree program 

b. 
An overall GPA of 2.5 or above 

c. 
Apersonal interest in acareer as a primary health care physican 


If the above describes you, find out 
how close to admission you may be 
and how to use your nexttwo college 
terms to your advantage. 

Call: 1-800-888-4777 or write: 
Director ofAdmissions 2501 West 84th Street Minneapolis, MN 55431 
Wrestlers squeeze by SPORTS BRIEFS 

By JIM VOGL Sports Writer 
Youth and experience com­bined to lift the Notre Dame wrestling team over Syracuse, 19-18 Friday. The win boosted the· Fighting Irish. to 4-3 in dual meets this year and dropped the Orangemen to 4-6. 
"From here on in, every meet is going to be like this," indi­cated Irish head coach Fran McCann. "We're on a roll. We don't have a lot of superstars, but we have a lot of kids that work hard." 
"We'll always figure out a way to win," he continued. "Someone is always there to pick somebody else up." 
Freshman Harris Brumer started his first dual match, scoring a 7-6 triumph over Orangeman freshman Aaron Poster (3-12). Brumer, who compiled an impressive 9-2 record against other under­classmen at 158, moved up to replace the injured Todd Tomazic at 167. 
"Harris came through," said McCann. "That was a real crit­ical match." Brumer's win shrank the Irish deficit to 15­
11. Then sophomore J .J. McGrew (7-4) scored a techni­cal fall on Seamus Lymar (2-8) to give Notre Dame a 16-15 lead. 
And senior heavyweight Chuck Weaver clinched the team victory by crushing Chris Butler, 18-6. 
"I've said all along this could come down to the last match," recalled McCann. "I kept say­ing I hope it does." Weaver, now 15-4, liked the idea of be· ing the Irish "anchor-man." 
"It puts a lot of pressure on­you, but it's exciting," said Weaver, who also helped beat Missouri in the final match. 
The match did feature three superstars: Notre Dame's tenth­ranked Marcus Gowens at 126, 
Harris Brumer 

and Syracuse's Rich Santana 
(142) and Mark Kerr (190). 

Santana pounded Mike Fox (8-13) for a technical fall. But the other two stars' victories were far less decisive. Of Gowens' 4-2 win over freshman Fred Fabbrini (11-9-1) McCann said, "The official definitely should have called for stalling. (Fabbrini) was backing out and he never made an offensive at­tempt." 
Tom Salvino, determined to keep Kerr in check, took a de­fensive strategy against Mark Kerr. "Right off the bat, (Kerr) was shooting to the left," ex­plained McCann. "From all indications, that's his whole of­fense. We just told Tom to lead with the other foot." Kerr still managed a narrow 3-1 victory. 
Mills was probably most frustrated by the 134-pound matchup between Jamie Kyriazis and Irish freshman Matt Beaujon, which wound up a 1-1 draw. 
The next match for the Irish is on February 16 against Michigan State. 
His Dream for America: 
Luther 
Past, Present &Future 
King, r. 

(lMPUS 
-
MINISID' 

•Sportsbriefs 
are accepted in writing, Sunday through Thursday until 5:00p.m., at The Observer on the 3rd floor of LaFortune, for next day printing. Please write your brief, the days it is to be run, and your name and number. 

•Mixed 
doubles tennis social is open to all undergraduate and graduate students. Informal games will be played and you can sign up on an individual basis. The first night will be tonight at 9. To sign up, please call Henee Wenger at 283-1347 by this Friday. 

•Women's 
Bookstore Basketball will have an organiztional meeting on Wednesday, February 12. Anyone interested in commissioner or assistant commissioner positions is welcome to attend and should call 287-9548 for information on time and place. 

•An 
informational meeting for cheerleading and leprechaun tryouts will be held on Wednesday, February 12 at 7 p.m. in the Football Auditorium in J.A.C.C. 


Fab 5 
continued from page 24 

15th-ranked Wolverines raised their record to 14-5. The Irish saw themselves fall to 7-11. 
Rose led the Wolverines with 20 points, with King scoring 19, Webber, 17, and Howard adding 14. The fifth member of the group, Ray Jackson, scored four points in joining his teammates on the starting lineup for the first time this season. 
"This was the best first half we've played maybe in a decade, or at least in the last four or five games," said Wolverine head coach Steve Fisher. "I chose to start the five freshmen and I thought they played fairly well when they were in there together. 
APrayer Service 
February 11, 1992 
Tuesday 7:00p.m. 
Sacred Heart Church 

...........rtin 
"We moved the ball better than we have in a very long time. We're pretty good right now. I thi)lk this team's got a chance to continue to grow and progress. We just need to keep working together." 
The Wolverine team is still very young; however, they took a major step yesterday after­noon at the JACC in maintain­ing their poise and not recover­ing from a shaky stretch in the second half. The Irish made a charge, but Michigan was able to withstand. If this is an indi­cation of things to come, the rest of the Big Ten had better beware. 
Said Elmer Bennett, "They're not freshmen, they're basket­ball players. They arc very tal­ented, and if they stay together and keep their heads straight, they can go far." 
Fabulous, indeed. 


Monday, February 1 0. 1992 The Observer page 23 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
A.~T '{oo SVPI'058l TD Bt SUR(! II SE~I:IS ~£ \)0\~G 001.\E~I( NOW ? I"-\E'3'5"-~ 11411-1 l OO~i; '<.I-ICW £.!--100<01-\ ! 1>-\.L 
Tl-1"-T EM~i\':.\5 OK , ~) R\G\-11 "-~S'«ER5 ' t-IP.~M£ !=EEL 
I~ ~0 'fll-\tN I GH 
-~ 11\£1<\ W\1P~G . 
I 
5() 1~':>'\tt-..\) eii= IR'\\NG \tl \H~~. I'-\ J~S\ Cl:*-\C£.~\Wo-1\t-.lG­aN L\'(IN<i. lo\'\':£Lt \\IE W~'\ 
l 11-M. 

@1 3-30 

e1992WattersoruatStflbuW<tbyUnrversa!Prn1Syndicate \..:-=_£~·!!!_00--------' "Same as the others, O'Neill. The flippers, the fishbowl, the frog, the lights, the armor.... Just one question remains: Is this the work of our guy, or a copycat?" 
CROSSWORD 
46 Soup scoop 39 Sawing wood Tuesday47 Like Hilton's 40 Great Lakes cargo horizon (2wds.) 
12:30 p.m. Seminar, "Modern Productions, Old Dramas: The
48 Trailblazer 41 Refusal words 50 Dunderhead 42 Card pots Making of Election Campaigns in Argentina, 1983-1989," Silvio 54 Links organizatio1 44 Woolly Waisbord, faculty fellow. Room C-1 03, Hesburgh Center. 
55 Newspaper items 48 "The -Room," in 
Sponsored by Kroc Institute. 
58 Track -Chicago 59 Principle author 49 Crystal gazer's 60 Mr. Kazan words 7:15 p.m. Discussion, "Eating Disorders: Putting it All on the 
61 Balzac's "-51 Poet Whitman Table," Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by Women United 
Goriot" 52 Nastase of tennis 
for Justice and Peace.
62 Descartes 53 Russian ruler 63 Follower of young 56 Suffix for mason ~-+-+--1 or old 57 -Downing Street 
DOWN 
CAMPUS
"Gone with the 
Wind" locale 2 ----about (circa) Monday3 "Are you some kind 
of ----?11 
4 Loose-fitting, 7 p.m. Film, "Bicycle Thief." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission colorful garment $2. 5 Samuel Pepys, for one 
9 p.m. Film, "Avant Garde." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission
6 Mr. Reiner 7 ----Jima 
$2. 8 Noted movie critic ( 2 wds.) 
9 Ace 10 Circumferential 11 Privy to (2 wds.) 
...._........__~__.____. 12 Ti 11 the -come 
MENU
©Edward Julius Collegiate CW8806 home ACROSS 19 Ship's stem 33 Pan or a golt cluo 15 ----throw 20 1981 Dudley Moore 34 Suffix for differ 18 City on the Po Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
1 Amphibian 
film "A mouse!" 22 Immense
5 -----dry 35 Cheese Tortellini 
21 Certain '60s 36 Street in Paris 24 Flock watcher
9 "The Iliad," for French Bread Cheese Pizza Roast Beef w/ Au Jus
demonstrations Farming (abbr.) 26 Well-known drummer 
one 37 BBQ Ribs
23 Eye part 38 Notorious buccaneer 27 Horoscope pro Calzone
13 ----14ay Wong 
25 Arm-----(joined) (2 wds.) 29 Type of cheese Baked Cajun Cod Deli Bar 
14 Indians of the 
26 Jaunty 43 Asinine 30 Turned right
midwest 
28 Bankroll of a sort45 Beethoven's Third 31 Turn a -ear
16 Prefix: foreign 
(2 wds.) 32 Soak flax
17 Oil field worker 
31 Impartial outlook 38 Suffix: murder 

,. . 
;.~ . ........... ........... ............. ::.:::.::.::...::.:::..::::.:::..:::::.:.:::.:..::.::~:::::.::...:::.:.::.....................t.IIII 
Sports 
page 24 Monaay . February 10, 1992 
Wolverines devour Irish, 74-65 
By DAVE MCMAHON 
Associate Sports Editor 
For most tPams, starting five freshmen would ht~ the sign of a rebuilding yPar. 
For Michigan's basketball team. it supported the belief that tlw 15th-ranked Wolver­ines may have the most talented rn~shman dass ever. 
Notre DamP spotted Michigan a 30-13 lead and couldn't re­cowr in the second half as the WolvPrines downed the Irish 7 4-65 Sunday in front of a ra­padty rrowd at the Joyce ACC. 
Freshmen. lt>d by Jalen Rose's 20 points. scored all of Miehigan's points and shot 48 of Michigan's 51 shots. 
Michigan shut down Irish guards Elmer Bennett and Daimon SwePt in the first half, limiting the duo to one-of-nine shooting. LaPhonso Ellis, be­hind four dunks. provided the Irish offpnsive threat with 17 first half points. eight of which were dunks. 
"This was a real good, impor­tant gam!' for Michigan. It was thn bnst first half wn've played in mayb!' a dPradP, or at least the last threP or four games," said third war Wolverine coach Stevr. Fisiu~r. "We moved the ball bettPr than we have in a long time. WP allowed the an­gles and passes to present thmnstdvns instead of trying to force tlwm." 
Although Ellis was supported with only I 0 points in thl' first half. thn Irish distributPd the scoring in the second and rlippPd Michigan's lead to 54­SO after a 14-5 run. 
"From midway on. our effort was tremendous," said Notre Dame first year coach John MacLnod. "We had a major run and were on our way to pop­ping this thing." 
Michigan went ahead 54-37 for its largest lead of the game at 10:43 in the second half. Bennett nailed a three-pointer and. after a Michigan turnover, Sweet followed with a layup and was fouled by Michigan ju­nior James Voskuil. Junior Rob Pelinka missed from three-point range on Michigan's possession and Sweet took an outlet pass from Keith Tower. Sweet connected on 13-foot jumper and once again drew the foul from Voskuil. 
Tower returned to his starting position after suffering a broken elbow against De Paul. 
Billy Taylor brought cut the gap to 54-48 with two free throws after a foul by Pelinka. 
Following a Michigan turnover, Taylor tied up Michigan's Chris Webber to give Notre Dame possession. Webber (6-9) and Taylor (6-4) had a few words before Tower intervened. 
"Webber was trying to intim­idate him. so I went over there and tried to keep the peace," said Tower. "They're talkers, but that's part of the game. It always has been and always will be. They'll probably con­tinue it as long as they can back it up on the court." 
Ellis finished the Irish flurry with a jam on assist from Bennett. 
"They play with composure," said Tower. "We thought we had them and they were about to break, but they played with great maturity. That's a good sign for such a young team." 
While Michigan held Bennett at bay in the first half. he was able to shake ofT some of his defenders and find the open three point shot in the second. Bennett suffered a nose injury at the 3:22 mark, but was able to return to the game. 
"I don't know if you can hold a scorer like Bennett," said Fisher. "We told {Jimmy King) to contest his shot, and he missed some good shots. We did a good job on everyone except Ellis. He got some easy baskets." 
King and Bennett traded three pointers for a 58-53 Michigan lead. The Irish matched Michigan at the end, but Rose sealed the win by hit­ting foul shots in the final min­utes. 
"Rose looked like an eight year NBA veteran out there. He showed great poise," said MacLeod. 
Michigan outrebounded the Irish 44-28 behind 13 from 6-9 center Juwan Howard, who also poured in 14 points. Webber, despite collecting his fourth foul at 15:54 on a charge, added 17 for the Wolverines. King, whose previous high was 15, tallied 19 on four-of-seven shooting, 
see HOOPS I page 18 

ND hockey falls short vs W. Michigan 
By ANTHONY KING 
Associate Sports Editor 
It's too bad that hoekey games don't last 20 minutes. 
If only Notre Dame could have called it quits after the first period, tlw Irish would have walked away with two victories from 12th ranked Western Michigan. 
Arter the first stanza in Friday night's gam!' at the Joyce Fieldhouse. Notre Dame looked like worldheaters. as they coastPd out to a 3-1 advantage. UnfortunatPly, the Broncos awoke in the st~cond period to crush all of the Irish's hopes of upsPl. with five goals to cruise to a I 0-4 victory. 
Saturday's contest was deja­vu. in Kalamazoo. as the Irish shot out to a 3-0 lead in the seeoncJ pPriod. only to be l'in­
... 
ishPd off 7-5. 
Friday's game displayed the disparity betwePn a top-25 team and a rebuilding Notre Dame hockey program. 
"Tlwy're better than we are, period." explained Irish coach Hie Schafer. "They are stronger, faster and play at a higlwr skill level than us." 

The Irish sprinted out to an early 3-1 lead. with winger Lou 
The Observer/Sean Farnan
Zadra lighting the lamp twice in 
Sophomore goalie Greg Louder defends the net against Western
the first stanza. Right wing Troy 
Michigan in Notre Dame's loss on Saturday.
Cusey scooped in his sixth goal many breakaway opportunities, center Jason Jennings scored,of the year in the first period off 
and they converted on many just as a Notre Dame penalty
a rebounded shot by RrPnt 
opportunities despite some expired, to even the contest atLamppa. 
magnificent saves by goalie three. After another power playThe stH:ond pt>riod. however, Craig Louder. goal, Western Michigan was in
spotlighted why the Broncos Penalties and four-on-four control and running away.
are one of the best teams in the hockey also hurt the Irish in the "A four-on-four really openscountry. The speed and depth of 
second period. With the ice up the ice," said Schafer.
Western Michigan just out­
opened up, the Broncos took "There are less guys to bumpmatched Notre Dame's talent.
.' 
advantage and filled the net. At them around out there. They
The Broncos wore down the 
3:23, Scott Garrow scored with find weaknesses, and we haveIrish. with line after line of tal­
Fabulous frosh too hot for Irish seniors to handle 
By RICH SZABO Wolverines buried the first Sports Writer seven points to up their lead to 
18. 45-27. However. tlw inten­sity and quick tempo thatIn the battle of youth versus yielded such amazing successexperience, youth came of age. 
up to that point disappeared inThe "Fab Five," touted as the 

the face of a tenacious Irish
best recruiting dass in the his­tory of college basketball, run. 
Led by a resurgent ElrnPrshowed their talent on the bas­
Bennett, the Irish climbedketball floor in leading back to within four. 54-50.

Michigan to a 74-65 victory going on a 14-5 run and at on1•over Notre Dame's senior-led point holding the Wolverinessquad. 
scoreless for over four

This game marked the first minutes. The inexperience oftime that the Wolverines' start­the squad seemed evident as
ing lineup was composed of the freshmen turned the ball
the five freshmen, and they re­
over seven times in a four­

sponded by inconceivably scor­minute span. 
ing every single Wolverine It appeared as though the
point. 
older Irish would comn back"We just want to go out and 

and pull off a tremendous

prove how good we are," said 
upset, but the youngforward Chris Webber, who Wolverines regained their

composure to hold off the12 of them coming on 

Irish. A King three-pointer andtremendous dunks that rocked a Webber dunk off an alley­

the sold-out Thunderdome 
oop stretched the lead back tocrowd. 
seven, 60-53, and the

Led by Webber's 13 first-half freshmen calmly nailed 10 ofpoints, Michigan pushed out to 
14 free throws down the

a 38-27 lead at halftime. They stretch to preserve the nine­led by as many as 17 in the point victory. 
first half, holding the Irish to Irish coach John MacLeod43% from the floor by utilizing was impressed with the play of an aggressive, hands-in-your­Michigan's young stars. 
face defense that yielded the 
"They're athletic, quick,
lead only once, at 2-1. 
strong, and long-armed," saidAlong with Webber, Jimmy 

MacLeod. "Webber isKing tossed in nine points, awesome. He can go for 40

with Juwan Howard and }alen (minutes). They are confidentRose adding seven apiece as and sure of themselves. It's an
the young Wolverines 
impressive group of freshmen 

connected on 58% of their 
they have recruited." 
attempts. 
In preparing for the secondThings didn't change much half of the Big Ten season, theto start the second half, as the 

see FAB 5/ page 22 

the four-on-four narrowing the weaknesses. A four-on-four re­
ented players. Western 
Irish advantage to one. Bronco see PUCK/ page 14
Michigan's speed gave them 







