
. 

~.~~ 
e Obse~~er .gt;. 
18.!12·1992 

;.L • 1 
Saint Mai"es College
SE SQUICINTINNIAL 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 
~-~ -----~~ 


VOL. XXIV NO. 97 TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 1992 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Car strikes two sophomores Dahmer reacts passively 
By BECKY BARNES Saint Mary's Security declined Center with a broken lumbar 

to life sentence in prison

News Writer to comment or release any in­spine and contused kidney. She 
Two Saint Mary's students were seriously injured in a hit and run accident early Sunday morning near Turtle Creek Apartments, said Public Rela­tions Officer Brett McLaughlin. 
Elizabeth Joyce and Cara Mc­Court, sophomores in LeMans Hall, were walking on Ivy Road at approximately 2:07 a.m. when a car traveling at a high speed struck Joyce and threw her off the side of the street, according to St. Joseph County police. 
A side-view mirror that flew from the vehicle then hit Mc­Court in the back. 
formation regarding the inci­dent Sunday or Monday. 
Security deferred all calls to Public Relations. McGlaughlin said he was not aware of the incident until Monday. 
The women said the car was white, but could offer no addi­tional description. 
Joyce remains in fair condi­tion at St. Joseph Medical Cen­ter. She received a broken neck neck and skull fractures. 
McCourt initially refused medical treatment but was later diagnosed at St. Joseph Medical 


Curtis Maynes and Mara Hooker, both recipients of scholarships from the GM Minority Engineering Program, stand beside Joy Vann (middle), director of the program. 
was discharged after examination. 
The police have no suspects at this time, but Sgt. Charles Feirrell said, "We're really hit­ting this heavy because of the seriousness of the injury to the girls and because it was hit and run." 
Police said that the car should be damaged near the right front fender and should have a missing right side-view mirror. 
Anyone with information about this incident should con­tact the St. Joseph County Po­lice at 284-9611 or Crime Stop­pers at 288-STOP. 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -Serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer was sen­tenced to life in prison Monday after some relatives of his 15 victims called him a devil and Dahmer told the judge, "I know society will never be able to forgive me." 
Dahmer was stone-faced and spoke in a low monotone as he described his crimes not as acts of hate but the work of a sick man. 
"I take all the blame for what I did," he said. 
Moments before, nine rela­tives of Dahmer's victims, many wearing picture pins of their loved ones, described the pain they have suffered because he 


NO engineering students earn scholarship funds 
By ANNIE VENESKV News Writer 
Two Notre Dame students have been awarded scholarship funds from the General Motors Minority Engineering and Science Scholarship Program. The University of Notre Dame's Minority Engineering Program has received $10,000 in schol­arship funds. 
Mara Hooker, a sophomore chemical engineering major from New York City, and Curtis Maynes, a junior electrical engineering major from El Paso, Texas, each will receive $5,000 awards, according to Joy Vann, director of Notre Dame's Minority Engineering Program. 
The students were selected for their "outstanding academic promise" which their grade point averages reflect. 
Maynes does not currently plan to attend graduate school, 


SMC candidates state platforms 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 
Ideas for changes and pro­posals in Saint Mary's aca­demics and student life were abundant as candidates for student body office stated their platforms and answered ques­tions at Monday's student body election debate. 
The three tickets, after stating their platforms. answered questions on subjects which ranged from security issues to academic councils to social events. 
Candidates for Student Body President, Vice President for Academic Affairs, and Vice President for Student Activities, respectively, include: 
Tina Carrara, Mary Beth Wilkinson, and Julie Mc­Cormick; Katie Damm, April Ehret, and Jonna Kwiatkowski; and Colleen Rhattigan, Ann Grant, and Martha Marzolf. 
Each ticket offered different views on varying issues which face the College today, but all were centered on the issues of pride in Saint Mary's, improved 
relations with academic re­
sources, improved visibility of 
student government, and new 
ideas for social life. 
Student Body presidential candidate Katie Damm said that a major goal of her ticket is to promote the already active interest in student government. 
"The great thing about this campus is that so many women are willing to get involved," she said. "But they're not getting involved. We need to let them know that we need to hear their needs. We're the ones who eat in the dining halls, live in the dorms, and go to classes." 
The Rhattigan ticket has publicity as a primary issue as well, said Presidential Candi­date Colleen Rhattigan. 
"Student government needs to be promoted by student lead­ers," she said. 
She added that the creation of a publicity board would enable student officers to communicate current issues and student government events to the student body in general. 
While wanting to increase the visibility of student government, the Carrara ticket, with its theme of "Women Making Changes for Saint Mary's Col­lege," would also like to con­centrate on improving the communication between the students and faculty, said Pres­idential candidate Tina Carrara. 
"We plan to unite," she said. "We want to be able to utilize Saint Mary's resources and student energy." 
As far as academic ideas, each candidate for vice presi­dent of Academic Affairs of­fered ways to improve the exist­ing student academic council. 
Grant stressed that service is a major priority with her ticket. 

"Service is vital to this school in all aspects," she said. She said that she would suggest a program in which students could receive academic credit for service within their major field of study. 
Wilkinson spoke for her ticket in saying that they would investigate the election of stu­dent academic representatives. 
"Students are often not elected, they're appointed," she said. "Often, the students who are appointed are not the ones 
see SMC I page 7 
and will use his award to fur­ther finance his education at Notre Dame. Hooker is presently considering continu­ing her post-graduate education at Duke University in preparation for a career in biomedical or biochemical engineering. She will also utilize her award to finance her undergraduate studies at Notre Dame. 
The Notre Dame program, which began in 1987. is a sup­port resource designed to in­crease retention and gradua­tion of minority students in the engineering curriculum. 
The G.M. scholarship pro­gram is a pilot program de­signed to increase the number and quality of minority students pursuing engineering and science degrees. According to Vann, G.M. will also sponsor a GM Scholars Banquet to honor the students on February 25. 
killed, butchered and had sex with the corpses of their family members. 
The hysterical sister of victim Errol Lindsey shouted "Satan!" at Dahmer and screamed, "Jeffrey, I hate you!!" as she lunged toward him, shaking her first and shouting obscenities. She was led away. 
A jury decided Saturday that Dahmer, 31, was sane when he killed 15 young men and boys he lured to his home. Dahmer pleaded guilty but insane. 
The former chocolate factory worker confessed to 17 slayings since 197 8 after his arrest last 
see DAHMER I page 7 

Teen-agers bind wrists, die together 
SELMA, Ala. (AP) -Two teen-age boys bound their wrists together and l!:'apt more than 300 feet to their deaths, leaving behind notes that said they were curious about death and looking for a new life, authorities said Monday. 
Sheriff Cotton Nichols said a relative found them Sunday at the foot of a grain elevator just outside the Selma city limits. Investigators found a backpack that contained two notes and a poem they had written together. 
"One of them made a statement it was curiosity about death and it was adventurous," Nichols said. "They wanted to search for a new life." 


The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
Ann Grant, Colleen Rhattigan and Martha Marzolf (left to right) debate academics, security and other issues at Monday night's election de­bate. 

Tuesday, February 18, 1992
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 



U. . must make call for human rights 
The time has come once again for campaigning in the United States-that glorious time dedicated to buttons, speeches, promises and, oh yeah, hard core issues. 
With preparation for the 


presidential primaries Meredith McCullough
underway, as well as the 

announcement of many Assistant News Editor 
possible Congressional-------­
candidates, campaign agendas are slowly 
beginning to take shape. The media is buzzing 
with talk of tax plans, health care, defense 
spending, education, and revitalizing the 
economy. 
But something is missing. 

Whether candidates hope to focus on domestic or foreign concerns, there is one issue that has failed to make headlines so far this campaign season. 
International Human Rights. 
Recent political improvements in Eastern Europe seem to have temporarily put concern for human rights on the back burner, but for all the peace-oriented changes, one cannot forget that human rights abuses are still practiced worldwide. Over 30 countries have been reported as torturing individuals, denying fair and prompt trial, and/or holding prisoners o conscious (those imprisoned for their beliefs, color, sex, ethnic origin, language or religion), according to Amnesty International, an inter­national organization dedicated to ending such human rights abuses. 
The problem has not disappeared. 
As the international scene begins its shift towards peace, now is the time for all people (including U.S. citizens) to express their disgust and concern for this situation. Guilty governments must know that the international public is aware of their actions and that they will not stand for these acts of injustice. 
U.S. leaders can play an important role in getting such a message across. This doesn't mean an outpouring of money. This doesn't mean sacrificing efforts to improve the domestic environment. What it does mean is that the U. S. needs to take a public stand, that the U. S. needs to support high standards of human rights and act accordingly. 
This is not to say that the United States has always blatantly ignored such issues, but that as an international leader, much more can be done. 
On March 23, 1976, sixty-three countries 'oined together in a fight against human rights violations by ratifying the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The United States was not one of them. 
While the United States prides itself on setting a positive example for individuals' rights, the Senate has still not yet seriously addressed the treaty. The U.S. is the only Western industrialized democracy that has failed to ratify the covenant. What kind of example does this set? 
Organizations such as Amnesty International insist that individuals joining together can make a difference worldwide. The time has come for 
U.S. individuals to voice their concerns. The upcoming elections provide a prime opportunity to bring this issue to the forefront. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff:  
Production:  Systems:  
Cynthia Ehrhardt  Jon Halloran  
Melissa Cusack  The Duke  
News:  Viewpoint:  
Lauren Aquino  Cheryl Moser  
Steve Zavestoski  Accent:  
Sports:  Pat Moran  
Rich Szabo  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
OF INTEREST 
•The 
Student Art Forum will have an information and planning meeting tonight at 7:30p.m. at the Snite Museum of Art. All members are asked to attend. New members welcome. 

•campus 
Alliance for Rape Elimination will be holding an organizational meeting Thursday night at 6:30 


p.m. in LaFortune's Montgomery Theater. For further in­formation call Missy Sherman at 283-2926. 
•The 
Philippine Club will hold another Mah-Jong night this Thursday at 7 p.m. in the basement of Alumni Hall. 

•"Government 
Career Day" will be held Wednesday, February 29 from noon until 4 p.m. in the lower level of the CCE. Representatives from federal, state, and local government agencies will be in attendance to discuss ca-


MARKET UPDATE 

Seventy percent chance of showers today with highs in the low to middle 50s. Cloudy and cooler Tuesday night. TEMPERATURES: 

City H L Albuquerque 49 30 Atlanta 65 48 Austin 75 54 Baton Rouge 77 60 Bismarck 34 30 Boise 45 33 Boston 27 17 Columbia, S.C. 73 40 Columbus 42 33 Denver 45 28 Des Moines 53 39 Harrisburg 48 29 Helena 45 28 Honolulu 82 70 Indianapolis 40 34 Jackson 72 56 Juneau 33 26 Lincoln 59 44 Madison 36 34 Mpls-St. Paul 35 34 Nashville 55 38 Sacramento 55 47 


Salt Lake City 42 30 Tallahassee 82 53 Topeka 59 43 South Bend 36 34 Vienna 37 32 Washington, D.C. 56 35 
:{: 

PrBSSure 
H ~$J ~ [I] 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
L ~ m 8 
SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE 
WORLD 
Sunken treasures sought ONTARIO -The steamer Atlantic sank to the bottom of Lake Erie 140 years ago with hundreds of immigrants on its decks, their possessions in sturdy oak crates. Buoyed by a federal judge's ruling, the salvage company Mar-Dive Corp. of Van Nuys,_ Calif., has claimed the wreck in Canadian waters and is looking for descendants of passengers who want some of the possessions after diving begins this summer. A grain freighter rammed the Atlantic on Aug. 20, 1852, killing 150 to 300 people and sinking the paddlewheel steamer near Long Point, Ontario. The exact death toll is un­known because the passenger logs were incomplete. 
NATIONAL 
Yale waduate st•ldents strike NEW AVEN, Conn. -Graduate students at Yale University began a three-day strike Monday, and about 1,400 union employees honored picket lines. Most dining halls were closed and most classes taught by graduate students were canceled. The Graduate Employee and Student Organization, representing about 1,300 graduate students, struck to pressure the administration to negotiate. Among other changes, the group seeks a formal grievance procedure for students, higher salaries for teaching assistants and longer time limits for completing doctoral requirements. 
(:f ~ c::=! 
SUNNY PT. CLOUDY 
Girls susBended for aspirin use 

• HAMILT N, Ohio -1\vo 14-year-old girls were suspended from school for five days because one gave the other two Tylenols. School officials said Dana Merry and Michelle Wiles of Wilson Junior High School violated a policy that bars students from taking drugs, even non-prescription drugs, without adult supervision. They were suspended Friday. "We can't be sure that a bottle of Tylenol really contains Tylenol," said Ron Ellis, director of student services. Merry said she gave Wiles the pain relievers after her schoolmate fell on an ice. 
reers in the government sector. Students of all majors and classes are invited to attend. 
•Natural 
Family Planning Classes information meeting for engaged couples will be held tonight from 7-8 p.m. in the auditorium of the Hayes-Healy Building. This overview fulfills one of the diocesan guidelines for pre-marriage preparation. 

•seniors 
interested in teaching: Beth Kaiser and Sarah Vakkur, representatives of the Diocesan volunteers of New York, will be at the Center for Social Concerns tomorrow, Wednesday, Feb~ 19 from 1-3:30 p.m. to talk about their program. 

•seniors 
may turn in pictures for the senior class video to the Student Activities Office -3rd floor LaFortune between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. until March 6. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

• 
In 1546: Martin Luther, leader of the Protestant Reformation in Germany, died. 

• 
In 1564: The artist Michelangelo died in Rome. 


• 
In 1861 : Jefferson Davis was sworn in as president of the Confederate States of America in Montgomery, Ala. 

• 
In 1885: Mark Twain's "Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" was published in the U.S. for the first time. 

• 
In 1930: The ninth planet of our solar system, Pluto, was discovered. 

• 
In 1984: Italy and the Vatican signed a revised concor­dat under which Roman Catholicism ceased to be the state reli­gion of Italy. 


Tuesday, February 18, 1992 The Observer page 3 

Student Senate considers FCC appointment process 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL News Writer 
Residence halls will have the option of using selection committees to appoint repre­sentatives to the Freshman Class Council (FCC) if the Stu­dent Senate ratifies an amend­ment submitted for considera­tion last night. 
Under the proposed amend­ment, a hall council can, by majority vote, decide to forego holding an election and have their dorm's FCC represenative chosen by a selection commit­tee. 
The committee would consist of "no less than the hall presi­dent and vice president and the previous representative to the Freshman Class Council," ac­cording to the text of the amendment. The appointment of additional members to the committee would have to be approved by the hall council. 
Members of the FCC had been appointed by their rectors every September until this year, when rules changes mandated that they be elected by a majority vote of the freshmen in each dorm. 
The selection rules were changed in order to give fresh­men greater say in student gov­ernment. However, many be­lieve that the lack of familiarity that exists between freshmen early in their first semester can create problems for the election process. 
This belief is especially evi­dent in large dorms such as Grace and Morrissey. Repre­sentatives of those dorms spoke 
in support of the amendment last night. 
"(The amendment's selection process) is very fair, given the constraints of holding a fresh­men election in a large dorm," said Grace Hall president Keith McKeon. 
"There is a strong need for an appointment process in the larger dorms," according to Morrissey Hall vice president Mike Griffin. 
Nevertheless, some senators were concerned that a return to selection through appointment would make FCC members less accountable to freshmen. 
"Our dorm's (elected) FCC representative feels very re­sponsible towards the freshmen class," said Sophomore Class president David Reinke. 
The amendment, which was ratified by the Hall President's Council on January 28, will be voted on by the Senate during next Monday's meeting. 
Also last night, the Senate: 

•Decided 
that Notre Dame overseas students will not be able to vote in the upcoming class officer elections unless they request absentee ballots from the election committee; 

•Discussed 
potential changes in the method of selecting members of the Student Union Board; and 

•Appointed 
Teri Niederstadt to be Student Body Treasurer, effective April 1; 

•Heard 
Senator David Certo discuss allegations that his campaign posters were defaced during the recent Student Body presidential election campaign. 




OBCJAPAN 
OBC English Conversation School is offering full time teaching positions beginning in July 1992. Excellent working conditions, benefits, and salary Open to ALL majors. Career and Placement Services February 24, 25, 26 
Jo~n ~ngels MiKe ~arreH Heatner o~~nea 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

7:30 

February 19, 1992 


The Observer/Pat McHugh 
Bike in a jam 

The owner of this bike was surprised to see his transportation suspended from a tree. 

Government career fair provides job info 
By MOLLIE MUDD ment agencies, such as the News Writer F.B.I., the Peace Corps, the En­vironmental Protection Agency, 
Career and Placement is Congressman Tim Roemer's Of­sponsoring a Government Ca­fice and the Army Corps of reer Day tomorrow from noon Engineers. The Office of Per­to 4 p.m. in the lower level of sonal Management will also be the Center for Continuing Edu­there to assist in the application cation. process for government jobs. 
The career fair will host 50 Students at all levels and all representatives from 24 fed­majors are invited and encour­eral, state and local govern-aged to attend. A encies are 
IllALUMNI 






~CLUB 
STUDENT BARTENDER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM UP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 5, 1992 
looking not only for liberal arts and government majors, but for technical, business and science majors as well. 
Coordinator Marilyn Rice said that "this in not a job fair, it is a career fair ... to get informa­tion, not to drop off resumes." Rice said that "the federal gov­ernment is the largest employer in the country. You can find most careers in the feriPral agencies; there are opportuni­ties for all students in govern­
mentjobs." 
This is an informal opportu­
nity for students to gain info~­
mation about career opportum­
ties and to meet personally with 
staff members of many gov­
ernmental agencies in a conve­
nient and casual setting. 


SENIOR CLASS WEDDING WEEK~~~~ 
MONDAY 
Bachelor Party ''EntertainJDent'' at the Linebacker the lun begins at 9:00! 
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, February 18, 1992 

ISO discuss concerns before elections 
By JULIE BARRETT 
News Writer 
All three tickets running in 
the International Student Or­
ganization (ISO) presidential 
race are campaigning for in­
creased diversity and interac­
tion between the different eth­
nic groups and members that 
comprise the ISO. 
Bearing the motto "Include 
everybody and exclude 
nobody," the ticket of Jeremy 
Liau, Ignacio Arias and Sigfrido 
Elmufdi, pledge to integrate the 
international student body into 
the ND/SMC campus as well as 
"provide activities to promote 
cultural exchange and a sense 
of community between the ISO 
members." 
The Alejandro Ar­mas/Christophe Kougniazonde ticket expressed the need for greater "input from the inter­national grad students" who comprise the majority of the ISO, but many times fail to par­ticipate in ISO activities and events. They also proposed a need for greater interaction between ISO members and the South Bend community through volunteer service projects. 
The ticket of Darko Zuazo, Eduardo Bocock and Jose Maria Castro Ceron emphasize the importance of diversifying the ISO by organizing various activities and events to increase participation of all ISO mem­bers from all different cultures and ethnic backgrounds, and therefore, "unite the interna­tional community here at Notre Dame." 
Another important concern the candidates expressed is the need to help international stu­dents on campus, especially in­coming freshmen, to integrate not only with members of the ISO, but also with American students. 
"International students expe­rience culture shock when they come to the United States," Bo­cock said. "We hope to make them feel more comfortable by organizing special orientation activities and events where they 
Do it for the dead. out of respect And the living. 
TI-lE AMERICAN HEART ASSG:IATION 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 
Introducing Ronkin's New LSAT Premium Program. 
Just because something has been obtain the highest possible score so around for a long time doesn't that you can get into the best law necessarily mean it's good. school. Because, as you know, 
The Ronkin Educational Group is graduating from law school doesn't an innovative company that has put guarantee a job. You need to 
by THORNTON WILDER Directed by Mark Pilkinton 
together the latest in research, graduate from the best. 
Wednesday Feb. 19, 8:10pm Washington Hall 
technology, and teaching 1~10NTHEKIN So don't take chances by
techniques in a new LSAT 1 going to an old test 
Thursday Feb. 20, 8:10 pm Reserved seats: $7 
course. We call it our LSAT preparation company. 
Friday Feb. 21, 8:10 pm 
Student and senior citizen discounts 

Premium Program and it's Call Ronkin today. 
Saturday Feb. 22, 8:10pm 
are available for Wednesday, 

been designed to help you E D U CAll 0 N A L G R 0 U P You deserve the very best. 
Sunday Feb. 23, 3:10pm Thursday and Sunday performances. 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student 
227 US 31 Suite 210 .273-1866 South Bend
Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa Orders: call239-8128 

can meet and get to know other 
international students." 
Liau, Arias and Elmufdi 

would like to implement an ISO 
Big Brother/Big Sister Program, 
"which will help the adaptation 
of incoming students to the 
(ND/SMC) community." 
Armas, a sophomore from Puerto Rico, and Kougniazonde, a fourth year government graduate student from Benin in west Africa, are running for co­presidents. Armas is currently a Board member of the ISO and a member of the Hispanic­American Organization at NO. Kougniazonde is an active member of the ISO and, among other things, is on the Board of the NO Multi-cultural Executive Council. 
Liau, a sophomore from Sin­gapore, and Arias, a junior from Panama, are running for eo-presidents of the ISO. A ju­nior from the Dominican Re­public, Elmufdi is running on the ticket for the position of secretary. Liau is an ISO Board member while Arias and El­mufdi have been active mem­bers of the ISO, having helped plan and organize various ISO events. 
Zuazo, a junior from Bolivia, and Bocock, a sophomore from Honduras, are running for co­presidents, and Ceron, a sophomore from Spain, is vying for the position of secretary. Both Zuazo and Ceron are cur­rently on the ISO Board, while all three have been active mem­bers in the organization, as well. 
The elections will take place this Friday, Feb. 21, in the sec­ond floor lounge of the ISO of­fice from 2-6 p.m. All ISO members are eligible to vote and must present their student ID cards. Posters listing the tickets' aims and experience will be listed outside the ISO of­fice throughout the week. 
The ISO is the largest stu­dent organization on campus. It is comprised of 699 members with 66 countries represented in the organization. 
By CHRISTINE SERAPHIN News Writer 
Dennis Andres, director of special events, spoke at the Saint Mary's Board of Gover­nance (BOG) meeting last night. He discussed shuttle schedule changes that would affect the Saint Mary's route only. 
Implementing a new schedule could be as early as after spring break but will more likely be next August. BOG had a general consensus to accept the proposal, and it is now up to the senior officers to approve the new route. 
Residence Hall Association (RHA) has set elections for of­ficers to be held on March 23 and 24. Run-offs will be on March 26, if needed. The RHA representative informed BOG that room selections will be March 16, 17, and 18. 
Other events happening 
around campus include Sopho­more Parents Weekend Febru­ary 28 -March 1, and Little Sib­lings Weekend to be held on April 24-26. 
Maureen Lowry, president of BOG, ended the meeting with the mention of discontinuing the Freshmen Register, more commonly called "The Dog Book," next year. This will be brought up and discussed at the next meeting. 
TI-lE AMERICAN HEART 
ASSG:IATION 

MEMORIAL PR<ERAM.~ American Heart ft 
Association V'
~~ 


LSAT • GMAT • GR£ • MCAT • 0\·er 145 locations il\ationwide 
·....... : .... :........:.... 
The Observer 

Tuesday, February 18, 1992 page 5 


COTH department presents "Our Town" 
Special to The Observer 
"Our Town," Thornton Wilder's Pulitzer Prize-winning play of small-town America, will be presented by the Univer­sity of Notre Dame Department of Communications and Theatre in Washington Hall. 
Mark Pilkinton, department chair, will direct the production. Richard Donnelly will design costumes, and Bruce Auerbach will design the setting and lighting. Both are associate professional specialists in the department. 
Wilder uses a stage manager to introduce the audience to Grover's Corners and its inhab­itants. The stage manager is a storyteller who directs the ac­tion in the play, and comments on it. He converses with the 1992 audience and with the characters from Gr.over's Corners in 1901. 
In "Our Town," Emily Webb and George Gibbs marry, but Emily dies in childbirth a few years later, and George is left with a four-year-old son. Emily JOins the dead of Grover's Corners in the cemetery, but is reluctant to rest, desiring to relive her life. 
She is given the opportunity to relive one day, but is warned not to choose a day that has too much importance attached to it. Emily chooses her twelfth birthday, but becomes frus­trated when she sees that as a twelve-year-old, she was unable to appreciate the day's impor­tance. 
Emily comes to realize the importance of each day of her life, and wishes she could con­vey this to the living. 
Performances will begin at 8:10p.m. February 19-22, and at 3:10p.m. February 23. Tick­ets are $7 for reserved seats and are on sale at the LaFor­tune Student Center Office, and at the door. The play will cost $5 for students and senior citi­zens on Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday. For MasterCard and Visa orders, call (219) 239­8128. 
The Qbserver/Garr Schwartz 
Actors from ·our Town," a production of Notre Communication and Theatre, practice their parts in a rehearsal Monday night. 

Brainpower.Nowavailable mthe 

I 
Here's away to learn fuster and work Ifyou're astudent, you'll be able to defer smarterwithout puttingalot ofcash down. prindpal payments for up to 48 months It's called theApple ComputerLoan. while in school, making interest-only payments 
Right now, qualifying students, parents until30 days afteryou graduate orleave school. oonDwingon behalfofstudents, and faculty Interest rates are surprisingly low, andyou can and staffmembers with an annual income rake up to eightyears to repay.* ofat least $15,(XX), can purchase anApple® So stop by todayand fill outalam .MadntCl5h'" computer system using aspedal application. finandng plan set up just for you. Because this is oneway to afford a 
Apply to oonDwfrDm $1,500 to $10,(XX) for .MadntC15h, even ifyou can'tafford a.MadntCl5h. a.MadntCl5h computer, otherApple prcxiucts­induding theAppleCart?" extended service plan, and up to three software packages. 

Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 Math/Computer Building 
239-7477 
• The interest rate is the average ofthe higher ofthe 30-day or 90-day commercial paper rates as reported in the WbU Slreel journal, plus aspread of4.35%. AfterJuru! 30. 1992, the spread may increase ifprogram costs increase, '­hw will nol exceed 5.6%: exisring borrowers would be ootified at leas/]() dayS in adtoance Tbe loan may be prepaid at a~ time witbow penalty. fur the month ofOctober, 1991, the rate was 10.068J, wilh an annual percentage 
tl 
rate of 11.4035%. This rate would result in montb~v paymems ofl/8.81 for every II,fXXJ bor:awed Tbe totalfinance chargefor eocb ll,fXXJ borrowed UJOuid be $442.87. ifyou elect to defer principal payments for four years. the APR on )<)Ur loan will b. I /.OJl?\. lbur monlb/y paymeno during the defmnen/ {i<rlod wr/1 b./82& and )<)Ur ft131 monthly payment ofpriru:ipal ood interesl will b.$29.67 per every /f.(XJO borrowed. Tbe rota/ finance charge on every II,rXXJ _)IOU borrow will be 1647.24. 1be interesl n11e is subject to increase afteryou baue received the Joan. Each applicanl pays a120.00 non-refundable applicalionfee. Approved borrowers will be charged a 4% loon ongination fee. Loan applications t~fter june](), 1992. may be subject to abigber loon originaJion fee. Tbe loan origination fee will be added to the requested loan amount anti repaid over the life ofthe loan. 01991 Appk: Computer. Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macimosh are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. AppleCare is aregistered smice mark of Apple Computer, Inc 
-----~----~.. --~-~~--~--------~ 
.. 
page 6 The Observer 
Saddam's son emerges from shadows as father tightens ring 
NICOSIA. Cyprus (AP) ­

Saddam Hussein's youngest 
son Is taking an increasingly 
important role in Iraq as his 
father tightens his protective 
shield. say diplomats and 
knowledgeable travelers from 
Iraq. 
Qusal Hussein, 26, never held an official position in the Baghdad hierarchy or appeared to harbor any ambition for one, and lived in the shadow of his elder brother, UdaL 
Now he heads the Special Security Apparatus, the nerve eenter of Saddam's pervasive Internal seeurity network, said the sources. all of whom spoke on condition of anonymity. He also' commands a special 1 0,000-man military foree re­cently formed to protect Sad­darn, the sources said. 
By all accounts, Saddam's in­ner circle is increasingly wraeked by feuding as eco­nomic problems caused by the 
U.N. trade embargo worsen conditions for Iraq's 17 million people following the Gulf War. 
Tht! sources said Qusai has 
been sent to mediate at least 
two quarrels between promi­
nent clans in the Sunni Muslim 
community. the backbone of 
Saddam's support. 

What could become the most serious rift is between the al­Majids, the clan ·of Saddam's late father, and the al­Ibrahimis, his stepfather's clan to which his three half­brothers belong. 
Gunfights between the rival families have been reported. The sources said that in one Baghdad shootout, one of Sad­dam's nephews was killed by another nephew from the al­lbrahimis. Saddam reportedly ordered the nephew hanged, but it is not known if the execution was carried out. 
Saddam has in recent months been putting close blood relatives into key positions. particularly in the intelligence and military sectors. That has raised speculation that he is growing suspicious of even longtime associates. 
"We characterize the situa~ tion of Saddam Hussein's regime now as being brittle, something that is hard on the outside but easy to crack," said Edward Djerejian, a top State Department official. "We feel that his situation is deteriorating, not improving." 
Djerejian, assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs, spoke at a Bahrain news conference dur~ ing a visit to the Persian Gulf that followed reports President Bush had authorized an in­crease in covert operation to aid opponents of Sad dam. 
Saddam has regularly purged his hierarchy and the military to prevent power blocs from emerging to threaten him. 
Penetrating the secrecy of Saddam 's regime is almost im­possible. 
Iraq's government has be­come increasingly hostile to Western news organizations and has refused to allow many, including The Associated Press, to operate in Baghdad. 
Tuesday, February 18, 1992 
Newspaper discontinues Indian team nicknames 
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP)-In­
dians have disappeared from 
the sports pages of Oregon's 
largest newspaper, along with 
Braves, Redmen and Redskins. 
The Oregonian has declared the nicknames of those sports teams offensive and will not print them. 
"We do not expect the rest of the journalistic world to fall into line behind us, nor do we presume that our action will change any team names," Managing Editor Peter Thomp­son said in a statement. 
"But we have concluded that we will not be a passive partici­pant in perpetuating racial or cultural stereotypes in our community -whether by the use of nicknames or in any other way." 
The Oregonian is believed to be the first major U.S. newspa­per to adopt such a policy. 
In its Sunday editions, the 432,000-eirculation paper dropped references to the Braves in an Associated Press story about part-time Atlanta Braves player Deion Sanders leaning toward a career with the Atlanta Falcons football team. 
The newspaper referred to the "National League champion Atlanta" or "the baseball team." 
The policy will apply to any team from grade school through professional sports using an Indian nickname, Thompson said. So far, the pol­icy has been limited to the four nicknames. 
Sunday's Oregonian included references to the Miami Tribe, a team in the now-defunct Pro­fessional Spring Football League, and the Vancouver Canucks, a hockey team whose nickname some consider a derogatory term for Canadians. 
Other nicknames might be dropped "if it becomes evident that they, too, are offensive," Editor William Hilliard said. 
Indian groups have protested for years that ethnic nicknames and phony Indian costumes and gestures trivialize and mock their culture. Stanford Univer­sity dropped the nickname "Indians" in 1972, and in 1989 the Minnesota Board of Educa­tion asked high schools to drop Indian nicknames, and many did. 
Campus Ministry... 

'O\tv1PUS 

...Considerations tV!INI5TRY 
Doesn't catholic means diverse? 
Twenty year ago this Fall, the University of Notre Dame began to admit women into its undergraduate colleges. At the time, this action was seen as an accommodation to the changing nature of our world, and was explained as an attempt to provide a more humane, ­more integrating education for Our Lady's students. Clearly, this was a response to the enhanced status of women, spurred by the women's movement, and it involved a desire to share the perceived richness of the Notre Dame experience with all God's people. In the following years, a difficult blessing was bestowed on those women (some woold say it's still difficult to be a woman here) but most everybody survived and the real beneficiaries of the change were the men, who, left alone with themselves, would have lived a much less challenging, more bizarre kind of life. 
Five years ago, upon assuming his responsibilities as President of the University, Fr. Malloy announced a commitment to increased cultural diversity and a desire to enhance international awareness as major priorities for his administration. To that end, in 1988 increased goals were announced for admission to the University from the traditionally underrepresented communities and goals were set for increased faculty hiring from these minority communities. 
Like the situation twenty years ago, the transition has not been so smooth. An increased number of minority students have come to this campus, but tensions suggest that the whole range of supports and understandings that need to be in place to deal with our evolving situation have not been available. The protests of SUFR last year and the ongoing discussions of this year's Task Force on Cultural Diversity indicate a need to articulate more clearly how everyone here -not just our minority students -benefits from an atmosphere that is more consciously and culturally diverse. 
It was good for women to come to Notre Dame. It would have been hopelessly strange to try to live without them. It is we men who need their insights and attitudes to enhance our own -and vice versa. 
I believe that the same case for mutual benefit can be made as we engage the struggle for cultural diversity. It will surely not succeed if recent decisions are seen as being made mainly for the benefit of the minority communities. Surely, we all benefit from encounter with a truer picture of the world and its people and their issues. 
Notre Dame's deep desire is to be a Catholic university, a place where quality scholarship is shaped by the values of the Gospel and the traditions of the Church. The deep insight of the Catholic spirit through the years has been an openness to many voices, a reverence for a variety of customs, and a trust that the Spirit speaks most demandingly after the interchange of many experiences. 
our future interactions and to convince us all of the blessings available from the variety of gifts we bring to this place to develop and to share. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
Sign-ups for the Notre Dame Encounter of March 27-29, 1992, will begin tomorrow, Wednesday, February 19, and will end one week later on Wednesday, February 26. Application forms may be picked up and 
returned at 103 Hesburgh Library. 
Applications are also available these days for the Holy Cross Associates program. This program, which is designed for graduating seniors, involves a one year commitment to service, prayer, and a simple, common life. Houses are established in various cities throughout the United States, where young men and women work and live in proximity to Holy Cross religious, while pursuing the goals of the program. Further information is available from Mary Ann Roemer at the Cer~ter for Social Concerns, and from the office of the Holy Cross Associates at Moreau Seminary, telephone number­239-5521. Applications are due by March 20, 1992, for this coming year's program. 

Let us hope that this kind of "catholic" spirit will grow to shape 
--------~~~-:--------:-----­
The Observer 
page 7 

Ireland prevents abortion for teen 
DUBLIN, Ireland (AP) -A judge ruled Monday that a pregnant 14-year-old who says she was raped cannot escape Ireland's ban on abortions by going to Britain. 
It was the first test of a woman's right to obtain an abortion abroad. 
Justice Declan Costello said in his written decision that he had no choice under Ireland's constitution, which was amended in 1983 to include an abortion ban that had long been part of the legal code. 
"It's very painful, distressing and tragic for the girl and her family," Costello said in a writ­ten order following a 45­minute private hearing. 
Court officials said they ex­pected the family, who was not identified, to appeal Costello's ruling to the Supreme Court. 
The family had sought to overturn an order issued by the attorney general last week that blocked the girl from leaving Ireland to have an abortion. 
The case is unlikely to have a significant effect on the several thousand Irish women who go elsewhere for abortions each year to get around Ireland's ban. It is the strictest in Europe, permitting only a "morning-after pill" that will terminate a pregnancy within 72 hours of intercourse. 
Attorney General Harry Whelehan learned of the girl's plans only because her parents asked police if they should have tissue tests conducted on the fetus after her abortion in Britain for use in any criminal proceedings. The rape case has not yet gone to trial. 
Advocates of abortion rights condemned Monday's court ruling. 
"Victims of rape now face a double ordeal, which puts the credibility of Irish law in doubt," Jon O'Brien of the Irish Family Planning Association told British Broadcasting Corp. 
"Abortion is a reality for Irish women, even if the constitution should say differently," O'Brien said. 
Britain's Office of Population Censuses and Surveys says the most recently available statis­tics show that 4,064 Irish women had abortions in Eng­land and Wales in 1990. Abor­tions are legal there through the 24th week of pregnancy. 
Maxine Brady, president of the Union of Students in Ire­land, said the judgment violated a European Community treaty that allows free movement of citizens to seek medical services in other member states. 
The Society for the Protection of the Unborn Children, the largest anti­abortion lobby in Ireland, accused abortion rights supporters of exploiting the case. 
"The girl and her parents have been shamefully used as publicity fodder by those seek­ing to change the Irish consti­tution," director Phyllis Bow­man said. 
Ireland's constitutional ban on abortions was adopted by Parliament after it passed in a national referendum by a 2-to­1 margin in this overwhelm­ingly Roman Catholic nation. 

Budget cuts hurt state colleges 

Tuesday, February 18, 1992 
Dahmer 
continued from page 1 
July. He is to stand trial in an Ohio killing, and wasn't charged in one Milwaukee death because of lack of evi­dence. 
"I hope God has forgiven me," Dahmer said. "I know society will never be able to forgive me. I know the families of the victims will never be able to forgive me for what I have done." 
Milwaukee County Circuit Judge Laurence Gram Jr. sen­tenced Dahmer to consecutive life prison terms. Under con­secutive sentences, if Dahmer gained parole in one sentence the next sentence would auto­matically take affect. The pros­ecutor said Dahmer would not be eligible for parole for 936 years. 
Dahmer's  lawyer,  Gerald  
Boyle,  said  no  appeal  was  
planned.  

Dahmer, making his first public statement about the slayings, told Gram he didn't seek freedom by pleading in­sane, but understanding. 
"I wanted to find out just what it was that caused me to be so bad and evil," he said. "The doctors have told me about my sickness and now I have some peace." 
"This has never been a case of trying to get free," Dahmer said. "I didn't ever want free­dom. Frankly, I wanted death for myself." 
Wisconsin has no death penalty. Dahmer said he has turned to God since his arrest. "I should have stayed with 
God," he said. "I tried and I failed, and created a holo­caust." 
As Dahmer spoke, victims' relatives seated in the court­room gallery leaned forward, straining to hear his words. 
"I feel so bad for what I did to those poor families, and I understand their rightful hate," Dahmer said. "I have seen their tears and if I could give my life right now to bring their loved ones back, I would do it." 
Earlier, Dahmer sat emotion­less as relatives described their loss. 
"Jeffrey Dahmer has erased a million future memories for me of my brother," J.W. Smith, brother of victim Eddie Smith, said as he read brief statements from each of Eddie's 12 brothers and sisters. 
"Jeffrey Dahmer, you have become a hero for a few, but you have become a nightmare for so many more," said Stanley Miller, uncle of victim Ernest Miller. "Did you ever think this was someone's son?" 
Dahmer's three-week sanity trial included testimony from police and psychiatrists who described how the serial killer's urges to have sex with the dead led him to drug, kill and dis­member. 
Witnesses told how Dahmer cooked and ate a heart, biceps and thigh; how he slit corpses from sternum to toe and cut the flesh into fist-sized pieces; and how he soaked torsos in acid and kept skulls and other parts as mementos. 
Dahmer said he would not 
contest civil lawsuits some vic­
tims' families have filed against 
him, seeking any profits he 
might make by selling his life 
story. 
TAKE THE KEYS 
[AU ACAB TAKE ASTANO 

fRifNOS DON'T LH fRifNOS DRIVf DRUNK 
Ih~Obseoer 
Applications are now being accepted for the following paid positions: Illustrations Director Graphics Director 
•Applicants 
for Illustration Director should have strong drawing skills and editorial experience. 

•Applicants 
for Graphics Director should be creative and familiar with Macintosh MacDraw. 

•All 
applicants must have good management skills. 


To apply, submit a one page personal statement, resume, and 3 xamples of past work to John Rock by 5 p.m. Tuesday, Feb. 18. 
For further job descriptions, call The Observer, 239-5303 

Spring Breakin' in 
Panama City, FL $99 Daytona Beach, FL $159 Ft. Lauderdale/Bahamas Cruise $279 Cancun $489 
Call lance Dawson@ 271-1681 
WASHINGTON (AP) -State colleges and universities, faced with huge budget cuts from re­cession-wracked states, are raising tuition, giving pink slips to professors and eliminating courses. 
Nineteen states have cut allo­cations for colleges and univer­sities this year, a report by the American Association of State Colleges and Universities shows. Of the states that didn't report cuts, nine say they ex­pect cuts in the near future. 
"Many institutions are choosing to increase tuition, cap enrollment and cut programs, rather than trying to stretch diminishing funds, said association President James Appleberry. 
The 370,000 students in the 20-school California State Uni­versity System -the nation's largest -pay 20 percent more in required state fees that go for special services such as 

SOCIAL WORK CAREER AND EDUCATION FAIR 
WHEN: Feb. 20th WHERE: Saint Mary's College, LeMans Lobby TIME: 11:00 AM-4:00PM (18 Agencies Represented) Looking for information about Social Serviced Jobs? 
....___________________________________ 
registration and record-keep­ing. This compares with a 40 percent increase by the Univer­sity of California system. 
Last fiscal year, the annual fee for full-time California State students was $952, but the amount increased to $1,108 this year, which ends on June 30. Officials propose increasing the fees to $1,480 in fiscal 1992-93. 
Students from other countries or states pay tuition in addition to the fees. 
The City University of New York System, the nation's third largest with 200,000 students, is faced with a recommended $500 tuition increase per stu­dent on July 1. In the fall of 1990, the tuition was $1,250 a year but was raised to $1,450 a year in the spring of 1991. This fiscal year, the tuition increased to $1,850 a year, said spokeswoman Rita Rodin. 
"If the tuition increase goes through as recommended, our senior college students will be paying 88 percent more for their education in 1992-93 than they did in the fall of 1990," said Rodin, pointing to all the expenses of running the institu­tion. 
Rodin added that 72,000 CUNY students attend part­time, about 40 percent of the total graduate enrollment. The new budget proposes to cut $2.4 million in funds normally allocated to this group. 
If the budget proposal be­comes a reality, CUNY Chancel­lor W. Ann Reynolds told a state budget committee, one question left to ask will be "how many will we have to watch get forced out of college and onto streets 
already  ravaged  by  
unemployment,  drugs  and  
crime."  

said that the experience on her ticket will provide the leader­ship necessary to lead Saint Mary's through changes. 
"I know the way student gov­ernment works," she said. "Experience to me means we've constantly had to change. If elected, I will implement changes from day one." 
Damm said her ticket's goal is to define and showcase the pride in Saint Mary's. 
"We all chose Saint Mary's because of the community," she said. "Everyone is here because they care. My goal is to recap­ture pride in Saint Mary's." 
Change is also on the agenda for the Carrara ticket. Carrara said that informing incoming student classes about the func­tion of student government will be her ticket's primary concern. She suggested the creation of a manual explaining the work­ings of student government to be given to incoming freshmen. 


SMC 
continued from page 1 
who will be vocal if there's a problem." 
The Damm ticket will focus on academics over social aspects of campus life, said vice 
presidential candidate April Ehret. 
"Students are the most im­portant part of the Academic Council," she said. "We need to meet more often. It's the most important aspect of this col­lege-academics over social events." 
Each candidate for vice pres­ident of Student Activities said fundraising and publicity would be key issues for the Student Activities Board 1992­93, while Marzolf said that a key objective of her ticket would be an emphasis on cam­pus social life at Saint Mary's, rather than encouraging stu­dents to leave campus for social life. 
The three tickets disagreed on whether experience or change is more valuable in stu­dent government. Rhattigan 
Viewpoint 
p~ea Tuesday, February 18, 1992 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ..................•.... Monica Yant Advertising Manager •••...Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .•••.......•...... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......•. Alissa Murphy Sports Editor •.•••••..•.•••.David Dieteman Production Manager ...••...•••.Jay Colucci Accent Editor ...••.•••••••••.•...John O'Brien Systems Manager •••••••••••••••.Mark Sloan Photo Editor ..••••••...Andrew McCloskey OTS Director •.•...••............. Dan Shinnick Saint Mary•• Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller •.....•..........•.•. Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor. News Editor. Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Sports Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Allegations 
a 
Dear Editor: 
has constructed modern homes (as other manufacturing We have received word of the 
and schools in the communities. companies have) due to the letters posted on campus and 
This issue was voted on by the current recession. recent demonstration against 
shareholders. The motivations behind these International Paper and Notre 
Concerning the allegations of attacks on IP are political. Many Dame trustee Jane Pfieffer (The 
racism, I am a minority female of the largest of JP's facilities Observer, Feb. 10, 'Students engineer at IP and do not feel I are currently undergoing protest company's policies'). ops products that can be recy­Illness' by the American Paper have been harassed or discrim­contract negotiations with UPIU The allegations made by United cled. Institute, IP's incident rate (a inated against by any employee (contracts usually run 3 to 6 Paperworker's International Our facility produces a total of any type of work related of IP. I have been treated fairly years). The UPIU is attempting Union (UPIU) in the posted let­polyethylene coated board for injury per hours worked) was and receive the same salary, to force management to ter and by the Democratic containers and cartons in which 7.4 in 1990, compared to 11.23 benefits, and wage increases as concede to their demands by Socialists of America (DSA) both the fibre and polyethylene for the pulp and paper industry other employees. I have heard these counterproductive ac­quoted in The Observer accuse coating are recyclable. IP owns as a whole. IP's incident rate of no other minority or female tions. IP of environmental, safety. and 6.4 million acres of forest land dropped by 15% to 6.3 in 1991. employee complain of They have taken the op­labor abuse, as well as racial which are fully regenerated and IP also won safety awards in mistreatment. portunity to bring this to ND by discrimination and harassment. managed for wetlands 1991 from the National Safety The UPIU charges of worker targeting Jane Pfieffer, who 
We are Notre Dame Alumni protection and wildlife Council and other government abuse are foolish. Hourly happens to be a trustee of Notre employed as engineers at one of conservation. and independent organizations. workers (members of the UPIU) Dame as well as a member of IP's largest production facilities. It has also been our experi­IP's investments in South at our facility earn an average the IP Board of Directors. From We feel that NO students and ence that IP takes the safety of Africa occurred when the com­annual salary of $44,000 as of The Observer article it is faculty should be aware of the employees seriously. Many pany purchased the Masonite 1991. The average factory apparent that the UPIU has other side to these misleading hours are spent training em­Corporation in November 1988. worker in our state, Texas, found a voice on campus in the allegations and the motivation ployees to use proper safety Masonite in turn owns a sub­earns $18,000 annually. IP DSA behind the UPIU's campaign equipment and procedures; this sidiary based in South Africa. workers also receive good It is unfortunate that the against IP. training is reinforced monthly. According to corporate reports, benefits. overtime, and annual union is taking advantage of the 
We have both been involved IP has installed warning and 90 percent of this company's salary increases. idealism of students by in environmental improvement detection systems throughout employees are non-white, all Workers at other IP facilities providing them false or projects at our facility. IP has the mill, provides extensive facilities are integrated, and receive comparable salaries misleading information and voluntarily spent several million supplies of safety equipment, employees receive equal pay for and benefits. When a single po­then using them as political dollars over the last two years and have worked to try to elim­equal work. sition at the mill opens for an leverage. at this facility to decrease envi­inate hazards in the workers' The wages it pays are higher hourly worker there are usually Hong Tuyet Nguyen-51 '89 ronmental impact. IP manufac­environment. than other sources of income 200 or more applicants. Also, IP Michael S. Falco '89 tures many grades of paper According to the 'Summary of for most employees, and it also has not laid otT large numbers lP Employees from recycled fibre and devel-Occupational Injuries and provides health services and of employees or closed facilities Feb.16,1992 
Swim tragedy stirs memories for parent of killed student 
Dear Editor: the 87-88 season. It is abso­constantly exhibited by these ceiving will make their lives a 86-87). Scott Stephen '87 and 
Please know how much I am lutely unbelievable that Coach men and women. I credit Notre little more bearable. There is a the other Chicago alums who grieving with the Notre Dame Welsh and Notre Dame swim­Dame for instilling such won­difficult road ahead for them. have organized and attended Community because of the ming could be dealt such a dev­derful qualities and values in They will need caring and annual Super Bowl and tailgate deaths and injuries of the Notre astating blow again. their students. No other school thoughtfulness even more in the parties to raise money for the Dame swimmers. This tragedy can compete with ND in this months to come. fund. It should top the has enlarged the hole that has The Notre Dame swimmers area. $50,000.00 mark very soon. been in my heart since my son. that I have been associated with In closing, I would like to This is a remarkable amount to Patrick McManus, was hit by a are a unique group of people. I I can truly empathize with the thank everyone who has con­be donated in just three years. car and killed three years ago have never in my life seen such parents of Colleen and Megan. tributed to the Patrick Reilly in Chicago. Patrick swam for tight bonding, love, support and Somehow life goes on but it will McManus Swimming Scholar­Terry McManus Notre Dame for four years and loyalty for each other and never be the same. Certainly, ship. Special thanks to Steve Jenkentown, PA was captain of the team during caring for others as is the support that they are re-Coffey (NO Swim Team Captain Feb.3,1992 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I'M VOTING FOR BUCHANAN. I WANT TO stNVEJ.J5HAMEf3SIJ6t! 
I'M VOTING FOR E3U5H. I WANT 7D 5t/lf[) C1JN­
G/Z&SSA Me55AG8. 

TSONGA5! I'M SCN[)ING A I WANT TO SEN[) A MESSAGE .• Mts5AGt 7V 8/U-atNTDN! 70 ~!3UT I'[) UK£ TO PWICAT£3 IT 7D 750NGA'3. 
I'M St:Nl?ING A M&5­SA68 7D 7rn1 HAf!J<JN. 
'Our national symbol is not the ostrich.' 
George Bush 
Get your head out ofthe sand, submit: 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q, ND. IN 46556 

------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------­
Accent 
page 9 

Tuesday, February 18, 1992 
By CAROLINE CLARKE 
Accent Writer 
Quick. What has a British accent, wears Indian garb, and speaks fluent Spanish? Stumped? The answer is a Saint Mary's economics professor, Ravindra Parashar. An exuberant personality, Parashar admits he is a walking paradox. 
Born as an only child in Burma, India, Parashar is accustomed to a versatile lifestyle. His father worked in the Indian Foreign Service, which mandated frequent moves. Rather than become disoriented, Parashar manipulated this to work to his advan­tage. Despite experiencing difficulties leaving newfound friends, he harvested knowledge from other cultures. 
Parashar was raised in a devout Hindu household. An appreciation for Hinduism was instilled in Parashar since childhood. Religion has always played a key role in his life, cementing his family ties. 
"There were never any Sunday schools available for instruction. As a result, I relied on my parents to learn more about my culture and religion. After my dad would come home from work, we would sit together and chant our prayers," Parashar said. 
Living in Buenos Aires in the early 1950s, there was no designated place of worship for Hindus. According to Parashar, Hinduism does not mandate regular attendance to services. Hindus are able to worship in their homes, attending services of their own volition. 
During the times when his family felt the need for a supportive faith community, they attended a Catholic 
church.  This  did  not  present  a  
problem to Parashar.  
Parashar  has  fond  memories  

attending a Catholic kindergarten in Rangoon, Burma. "The nuns always reminded us of the Golden Rule: do unto others as you would have them do unto you. This was easy for me to accept," he said. Parashar integrated this moral ideal with Hinduism's law of Karma. 

I I I I 

Ravindra Parashar applies Hinduism to his lifestyle as aprofessor 

Cultural integration was not the only benefit Parashar reaped while living in Argentina since he had the opportunity to master the Spanish language He also lived in Mexico, further improving his linguistic skills. Parashar accredits his excited speech and boisterous personality to living in Latin America. 
"The lifestyle is very relaxed and open. Also, I'm never embarrassed to ask for a favor. In Latin America, it is give and take with people. In America, people are hesitant to ask for anything. They are raised to believe they should be independent," he explained. 
In 1969, as a 25 year-old attending the University of Florida graduate school, Parashar was thrust into inde­pendence. After completing graduate school, Parashar taught as an assistant at his alma mater. 
He' then returned to Mexico to teach at the University of Americas in Mexico. Dr. John Rube, a Saint Mary's professor Parashar befriended in school, offered him a job. The position was for a one year visiting professor in February, 1986. Parashar accepted, yet maintained reservations. 
"I was wary as to how students would receive an Indian economics professor. Dr. Rube assured me that Saint Mary's was a reputable school with eager, hardworking students," he said. 
Upon arriving at Saint Mary's, he was pleased with what he saw. "The students helped me along at first. They were very receptive to me; my energy to teach was fueled by their desire to learn. I always learn from my students." 
Parashar is known for his personal interest in others, and his rapport with students. He maintains contact with some students who have graduated and are pursuing careers. "Nothing is more wonderful than watching timid freshmen evolve into poised, competent young women," he said. 
He feels the environment at Saint Mary's is conducive to such de­velopment. "At this college, women have no barriers and every chance for involvement," he added. Parashar finds the women at Saint Mary's to be academically superior and more motivated than his past students. 
Parashar currently resides in South Bend with his parents. To Americans, this is an unusual situation, but Parashar explains it is commonplace in other cultures. "In America, parents try to instill independence in their children. Ultimately, they are supposed to go off on their own and exist as adults," said Parashar. 
Contrary to what some may believe, living at home has minimal re­strictions. "Adult children may live their lives, but money and belongings are communal." He believes that Americans equate living on one's own with independence and that perhaps this explains the deterioration of the family unit in America. 
This is Parashar's last semester at Saint Mary's. Having lived in Mexico for 18 years he maintains a special affinity for Latin American life. He hopes to teach in Mexico after leaving the United States. 
s.s.

'Wayne's World' offers reminiscences of youth 



By ELIZABETH HAYES 
Movie Critic 
And you thought I wasn't going to like this movie. Me, the snobby film critic. But wait. 
Action, adventure, fast cars, sex, laughs, rampant cheesiness, rock and roll, foul language, guys with long hair, guitar-worship, Queen's "Bohemian Rhapsody," vomit, and the good guys triumphing over evil and getting the girl. 
Really, when it comes down to it, what more can you ask of a movie? 
Some might yelp: "We should demand talented acting, excellent direction, existential meaning, outstanding cine­matography, social relevance, and a great soundtrack. Aesthetic sensibility. You know, worth." 
For most movies, I would be inclined to agree with these critics. I would be the one pounding on the table, demand­ing quality and threatening to give the offending cinematic effort the worst punishment at my command: one star. 
However, I am also a Platonist. believe in the Form of Movies. There is the Form of the Big Drama, the Heavy Romance, the Foreign Blather, the 
Produced by Lome Michaels Directed by Penelope Spheeris * * * * 
(out of five) 


Whining, the Twilight Zoner, the Nasty Cynical and many more. And high amongst this august company sits a Form of Flick that is unique. It is the Insipid Comedy. 
Its form requires that all the jokes and gags be executed without the aid of cleverness or wit. In its own way, it ......~~··-" demands more of writers and actors 111iiiiil3ii~~~~~ 
than dry or cute humor does because of its exceedingly unliterary nature. 
It can't even rely exclusively on the charisma of the actors like physical comedy can. The overriding element of the Insipid Comedy that must at all times be adhered to is self-conscious stupidity. 
I present to you the Form of the Insipid Comedy: "Wayne's World." 
Of course the comparisons of "Wayne's World" (and aspersions from the cinema snobs) abound. Wayne and Garth, played by Mike Meyers and Dana Carvey, bear a striking resemblance to the comedy duos Laurel and Hardy and Abbot and Costello (one blond, one dark -one dominating, one timid, etc.). 
They also favor the modern reincarnation of the buddy movie, (Bill and Ted's two adventures, and the peerless McKenzie brothers in "Strange Brew") but they have taken the form to new heights. 
They have almost perfectly reproduced the kind of humor you have with your dorm buddies. It's stupid, it's often vulgar, it's repetitive, and it's hi­larious. It's funny because it's yours. Never have I seen a movie that so easily creates a private joke just between the actors and the audience as this one does. 
The repetition of the half-witted gags creates the feeling in this movie that you are with your old high-school buddies, bandying around the same old adolescent gratuitous humor. And don't you remember how you used to laugh and laugh with them? You laughed so hard your stomach hurt, didn't you? 
Wayne and Garth have recycled the humor of not-very-bright 15-year-olds (which we all were, at one point) and remind us that we used to get a real kick out of it. And we laugh harder at it this time because we are not just laughing at the jokes, but at ourselves. 
page 10 

VAL D'JSERE, France (AP) ­Alberto Tomba's in town, and that makes Val d'Jsere a bigger dot on the map. Call it the world capital of ski racing. 
The bombastic La Bomba has returned to the Winter Games, prepared to do what no other Alpine racer has ever done ­defend an Olympic champi­onship. 
"After two weeks of training, I'm curious to see how I'll do against the other skiers again," he said. 
Four years ago at Calgary, a flashy, 21-year-old Italian playboy named Tomba luxuri­ated in the spotlight after vic­tories in the giant slalom and slalom. On Tuesday, a more mature, serious Tomba defends his giant slalom title on the steep, treacherous La Face course. 
Tomba arrived here Sunday 
night by helicopter from Sestriere in the Italian Alps, where he had been training and protecting himself from public­ity. He inspected the course on Monday. 
"Right now, I am relaxed, tranquil and confident that I can win. I am ready," he said. "However, the Olympics are very special events, and upsets are frequent." 
Just ask Paul Accola, the Swiss racer who took the over­all World Cup lead from Tomba on Jan. 13. Accola fell in the downhill, the first Alpine event of the games, then botched his first slalom run in the combined two days later. 
With no chance to win, Accola skied across the finish line backward on his second run and made an obscene gesture to the jeering crowd. 
"When you are upset by a de-
The Observer 
feat, you can lose control of your nerves," Tomba said. "But I don't think I would have done that, even if I was upset." 
Accola was lOth in the super­giant slalom on Sunday. But now that Tomba's in town, he says there's new motivation to win the giant slalom. 
"It's necessary that I prove why I am the leader of the 

Tuesday, February 18, 1992 
mpic slalom medals 
World Cup," he said. "But I can't hide the fact that I feel a bit demoralized." 
The reason Accola took the World Cup lead is because he races in downhill and super­giant slalom. Tomba doesn't, so the giant slalom and slalom are his only chances for World Cup points or Olympic gold. 
Tomba considers Accola and another Swiss, 31-year-old vet­eran Hans Pieren, his chief challengers in the giant slalom, along with the Norwegian team, led by super-G winner Kjetil Andre Aamodt and Ole Christian Furuseth. 
And he's not counting out four-time World Cup winner Marc Girardelli of Luxembourg, who earned his first Olympic medal with a second-place in the super-G. 
Ladbrookes, the licensed London-based bookmaker, lists Tomba as the biggest Alpine skiing favorite of the games. He is a 4-6 favorite in the giant slalom and is listed at 4-9 for the slalom next Saturday. He is an 11-8 favorite to complete the double. No other skier is even close. 
Tomba has won two World Cup giant slalom races this season and finished second in two others. In slalom, he has five victories and two runner-up finishes. 
Tomba beat Accola in giant slalom and slalom races open­ing the World Cup season at Park City, Utah, last Nov. 23-24; Accola beat Tomba in the same two disciplines at Breckenridge, Colo.. the following week. 
The last time the two met, Tomba beat Accola in a slalom at Wengen, Switzerland, on Jan. 26, just before the Olympic break. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. allhe Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
USED TEXTBOOKS! 
Buy & Sell Books 
Pandora's Books 
3 blks. from NO 
233-2342110-5:30 M-Sun 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
287-4082. 
ANNUAL PHON-A-THON benefits Woman's Care Center FEBRUARY 10-13 and FEBRUARY 17-20 from 
6 to 9 pm each night. Development Office in the Admin. Bldg If interested, call Michelle at 255-4595 
If you are a NU SKIN distrbutr please call Scott x 1538 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: LADY'S BLACK SHEER SCARF WITH ROSES. TAKEN FROM BOOKBAG RACK IN HUDDLE. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. PLEASE CALL SHEILA AT 
255-7684 BEFORE 3 PM OR RETURN TO HUDDLE DELl. 
LOST GOLD FILIGREE HEART BRACELET OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL KATARA W. @2965 IF FOUND. REWARD PENDING! 
LOST ONE GOLD FILIGREE HEART LINK BRACELET OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND OR YOU KNOW WHO HAS. PLEASE CALL KATARA W. @2965. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. REWARD PENDING! 
LOST: CAMERA IN BLACK BAG WITH RED TRIM DURING JPW. CALL DAVID AT 283-4531 OR SANDRA AT 815-933-5257 COLLECT. 
FOUND: MAN'S DIGITAL WATCH BETWEEN SIEGFRIED & PE DURING JPW. CALL BEN AT 283­1766. 
Lost: I left a pair of wool mittens with brown leather palms in Am. 118 O'Shag and now they're gone II I really love these mittens and need to have them back. If you know any1hing about them, please call Kristine @ X3352. 
Lost: an AIWA walkman with yellow headphones. It was in a clear plastic bag with a white OETEX. NO questions!II! call Chris 233-5882 
LOST: pair of grey wool gloves; left in 120 O'Shag after 10:10 Arthur. Legend class. Please call Pete X1676 02/20 

Found: Men's glasses at wild 
Howard party on 1/25. Call 
Bevo x2558 
L-__
w_A_N_T_E_o__.....l 

A SUMMER JOB YOU'LL LOVE I Coed Massachusetts camp, 3 hrs. Boston/NY City. Super kids, great food, friendly atmosphere. 1 00+ staff: tennis, lifeguard, WSI, arts/crafts, all land/water sports, fitness, gymnastics, piano/play for shows, drama, judo, dance, archery, photography, computers, rocketry, guitar, radio, video, yearbook, newspaper, wilderness, woodwork, AN, morel 6/20-8/22. Call/write CAMP EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd., Eastchester, NY 10707. 800/955-CAMP. 
$350.00/0AY PROCESSING 
PHONE ORDERS I PEOPLE CALL 
YOU. NO EXPERIENCE 
NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. 
Need ride to Ll or Area for S.B.Can 
leave 3/6. Anne x2580 
NEED RIDE TO COCOA BEACH, 
FLA. OR VACINITY FOR SPRING 
BREAK. MUST ARRIVE BY 3-8. 
WILL PAY FOR GAS. LYNN AT 
237-1985. 
Ride needed back from Wash D.C. on Sun, March 15; can also be on March 14. Willing to help with tolls and gas and can drive stick. Call Laura 3607. 
Need a ride to D.C. Met. area 
Will Split gas & tolls 
Call Bill at x4141 
Need ride to Purdue Will pay gas Call Brian X4245 
2 NO women need ride to AI or w/in 2 hrs for SB will pay gas call KATE 3534 
Do you live in UPSTATE NY and are headed home for Spring Break? Am looking for a ride -will pay gas etc. Scott 2373. 
FOR RENT 

3 SEPARATE BEDROOMS, USE 
OF FACILITIES, KITCHEN, 
WASHING, $225/MO. NICE 
NEIGHBORHOOD & HOME. 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS. PAUL 232­
2794. 
TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER SUBLET -CHEAP FOR FOUR STUDENTS!! DO NOT PAY EXPENSIVE DORM RATES AND PUT UP WITH RULES -HANG BY THE POOL!!!! CALL X3414­MESSAGE. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153. 
I FOR SALE 
CHEAP! FBI/U.s. SEIZED 
89 Mercedes ...................... $200 
86 VW .................................... $50 
87 Mercedes ..... ·····--·-------$1 00 
65 Mustang .......................... $50 
Choose from thousands starting 
$25. 
FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals 
Details 801-379-2929 Copyright 
#IN11KJC 
TICKETS 
NEED 5 UCLA GA TIX 
CALL AMY 2909 
I need 2 UCLA tix 
Christina X2615 
HELP! I Need 4 UCLA 
B-Ball Tixs!l 
Mimi 284-5158 
Round trip airfare from Chicago to Puerto Rico for Spring Break: $450. Call x1803 
PERSONAL 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
Good rates. Save Money. Call me 
for a quote 9:30-6:00, 
289-1993. Office near campus. 
It's Coming! 
Lost: One Portable Telephone, call 
2546 
That's the way it goes, I guess ... 
DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO 
O'HARE? CALL UNITED LIMO. 
SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK FROM 
ND BUS SHELTER. 674-7000 OR 
1-800-833-5555. 
ALICIA, 
I HAVE DECIDED TO SPARE YOU I 
(BRRRRRRRRRRFFFFFFF!!I!!I!I!!II II) 
His eyes OPEN!!!!! 
"Let's go Greyhound on spring 
break. 50% off anywhere we go. 
Restrictions apply. Call 287-6541" 
We are a young, happily married, financially secure, couple longing for a baby to nurture and share in our love & lives. Let's help each other and give your baby a bright future. Please call collect and get to know us 708-246-1095. 
Lake, Let's get together and study for the test. Call me or catch me in class. 
OR. STAT CONTINUALLY SELF­
PROCLAIMS HIMSELF AS 
ANNOINTED BY DR. INKSTER 
WHILE WE ALL KNOW HE IS 
MERELY AN ACCOUNTANT FOR 
THE COUNCIL ARCHIVES. 
LOVE, DOCTOR SIN/COS 
Ivan's too sexy for his hair­
Brrrrrrrfffftf!!! I!!!! !I !I Please spare 
me! 

HOW TO OBTAIN A SUMMER INTERNSHIP PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES TOMORROW, 6:30 PM IN ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. ALL WELCOME. 
To all LULAC members: 
There will be a meeting on Tues. Feb. 18th in the Club room at 7:30 pm. All are invited to attend. Also, LULAC will be having a dinner to benefit Projecto Madre on Wed, Feb. 19th at 5:30 in the CSC. The cost is $2.00. Come share a meal with some friends. 
LULAC will be sponsoring a dinner to benefit Projecto Madre on Wed, Feb. 19th at 5:30 in the CSC. The cost is $2.00 and all are welcome to enjoy good food with friends. 
Roses are red, 
Violets are blue, 

Carolyn Withers is a great cousin, 
Molly Carey knows it's true IIII 
PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL 7 nights Ramada Inn 
Bus transportation included. Only $199-payment due in full 
Friday 2/21. Only 12 spaces left!!! 
Don't miss outlll 

Call SUB for info@ 239-7668. 
Mr Red "Suspenderds" Sorry I didn't see Your personal for me. Friday I'm glad you had the chance To save me one slow dance And since this personal is at the end I will stop this rhyming trend. 
Michelle 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call1-800-878-3696. 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-786­8373 
The Lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans! 
Irish Music and Dance Every Tuesday at Club 23 SEAMAISIN 
HURRY I Don't Miss Out. SOUTH PADRE and CANCUN SPRING BREAK of "92"1 Seven night packages from $199. Lowest prices guaranteed. Call Orion Tours TODAY: 1-800-800-6050. 
Dear Bertha, 
I am inclined to decline your offer to cuddle, for although I would like to cuddle, I would not like to drown. I am, however. interested in meeting your 42" friends. 
Love, 
Brendan 

Campus band looking for 
experienced guitarist call 
Sue 284-5227 Mike 257-8609 
I love you, No I reallly Love You! 
Katie, Jonna and April, 
You women are awesome and 
you've got our vote! Go for the gold 
and show 'em what you're made of. 
WE KNOW IT"S TIME FOR A 
CHANGE! 
the third floor smokers 
Hey Jane, did it taste better going down than comming up? 
Kate-George Bush and I both miss you so come back to D.C. soon. After all, somebody's got to be the first woman president! Love, 
the bum in Bethesda 
GOVERNMENT CAREER DAY 
Learn about careers with state, 
local, and federal government. 
ALL STUDENTS WELCOME! 
Wednesday, February 19th CCE!Lower Level Noon-4:00 p.m. 
Dr. Seuss lives. Theodore's Saturday, Feb. 22, 1:00pm-3:00pm 
Relive your childhood, 
Help South Bend's 
homeless children. 
Theodore's, 
Saturday, Feb. 22, 
1:OOpm-3:00pm. 
Ski Trip to Caberfae Ski Resort 
Package includes: 
•Accommodations 
at ·oays Inn 

•Free 
Continental Breakfast 

•Discount 
on Ski Rentals 

•Two-day 
lift ticket 


ONLY $6511 

Sign up at the Student Governmnent Office (BARB) 
Questions??? Call239-7668. 
UNDERGRADUATES 

Don't despair, even through ND is moving more and more toward a research institution the undergrads are not grow­ing less important. Heck no, we graduate students would love to use you people as test subjects in our experiments. 
COLLEEN LYNN IS 21 TODAY!!!! Colleen Lynn (the girl with two first names) turns 21 today, February 18th. 
Look out, South Bend-she will wrek havoc on S. Bend's finest drinking establishments tonight-so look for Collynn-buy her a shot and wish her luck tonight (she needs it) II! 
Happy Birthday Colli Love, Bux, Buff, Eusty, Sable, Jen, etc., etc. 
Loeffler, We missed you this weekend at JPW, but we didn't forget you I Our Fondue pictures made the slide show! We remembered you fondly over Fondue Ill Love, The Walsh clan 
HOW TO OBTAIN SUMMER INTERNSHIPS PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES TOMORROW 6:30 P.M. IN ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. ALL WELCOME. 
HEY DaDe, 

Good luck on the tests and papers this week. With the support of da Lion, I'm sure you'll do fantastic, 'cause you're awse. Also, I still have your shirt, and I really like it, so you may have a tough time getting it back real soon. 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND Condominiums for Spring Break. $20 per person per night/ off beach $25 per person per night/ beach front 1-800-422-8212. 
I feel like a defective typewriter -Riz 
Remember Ia bamba 

sphincterboy .. 
Hey Mike Scrudato, what do you think of the hockey team now? Love, Bethany 
ll"~'mlW{] 
a 

~<Zml~ ®II Wllll lfunnull~ 'II'<MIDl efruhmenta, Papa John'• Pizza Karaoke Sing-Along, Sweet OJ Castle Point Clubhou..e Must be 21 Years o! Age-NO Exceptions Call Lance DaWIIOn@ 271-1681 
·SCOREBOARD
Tuesday, February 18, 1992 
page 11 

NBA STANDINGS 
I'Mi.UI·H· OLYMPIC HOCKEY UPDATE 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Dlvlalon w L Pd CB L10 Streak Home Away Coni New York 32 18 .640 7-3 Won1 18-6 14-12 23-13 
CURRENT STANDINGS 
Boston 29 21 .580 3 4-6 Won1 19-6 1D-15 17-14 
MEDALS
Philadelphia 24 27 .471 8112 4·6 Lost3 16-11 8-16 16-20 
Through 37 medal events TEAM W-L-T Pta.
Miami 24 28 .462 9 5-5 Lost2 19-8 5-20 17-18 New Jersey 21 30 .412 11 112 2-8 Lost1 14-11 7·19 12·20 G s 8 T United States* 4-0-1 9 Washington 17 34 .333 15 112 3-7 Lost2 8-17 9-17 9-22 
Sweden• 3-0-2 8
Orlando 13 38 .255 19 112 2-8 Won1 8-17 5-21 9-22 Germany 8 8 5 21 Finland* 3-1-1 7
Central Dlvlalon Unified Team 7 4 6 17 Chicago 42 10 .808 5-5 Lost1 23-3 19-7 27-4 
Germany• 2-3-0 4 Cleveland 33 16 .673 7112 6-4 Won2 2D-5 13-11 26-8 Austria 4 6 6 16 
•
Italy 1-4-0 2
Detro~ 29 22 .569 12 112 6-4 Won1 15-10 14-12 18-15 Atlanta 26 25 .510 15 112 5-5 Won2 15-9 11-16 14-17 Norway 6 4 3 13 
Poland 0-5·0 0 
Milwaukee 24 26 .480 17 5-5 Lost2 19-6 5-20 15-17 Indiana 23 30 .434 19 112 8-2 Won3 15-11 8-19 13-18 France 3 4 1 8 Charlotte 16 35 .314 25 112 5·5 Lost1 11-14 5-21 11-21 
Canada* 4-1-0 8 
AlBERTVIllE 92

Italy 1 3 3 7 Unified Team• 4-1-0 8
WESTERN CONFERENCE 
Mldweat Dlvlalon 
Finland 3 2 6 
Czechoslovakia* 4-1-0 8
w L Pd CB L10 Streak Home Away Coni 
OQ·9

France• 2-3-0 4
Utah 34 18 .654 8-2 Won3 23-2 11-16 20-8 
·::·:·.······

United States 3 2 6 
San Antonio 29 21 .580 4 7·3 Won1 17-6 12-15 19-13 
Switzerland 1-4-0 2
Houston 26 26 .500 8 3·7 Lost2 17-8 9-18 15-14 
Japan 0 2 3
Denver 19 31 .380 14 3-7 Lost1 16-11 3-20 11-22 
Norway 0-5-0 0 
QUARTERFINALS

Dallas 15 35 .300 18 2-8 Won1 1D-17 5-18 9-20 
The Netherlands 0 1 2 3
Minnesota 10 40 .200 23 3-7 Won1 6-20 4-20 7-24 
Tuesday:* Clinched medal round berth.

Canada 0 1 2
Pacific Dtvlalon 
U.S. vs. FranceIn the event of a tie, seed is

Portland 35 15 .700 8-2 Lost1 21·6 14-9 18-11 
Canada vs. Germany

Golden State 32 15 .681 1 112 6·4 Won3 17-7 15-8 21-10 Switzerland 1 0 2 
determined by goals for/goals 
Phoenix 33 18 .647 2 112 7-3 Won1 21-4 12-14 2D-10 
Wednesday:against ratio.

LA Lakers 29 21 .580 6 5-5 Lost3 16-9 13-12 19-13 China 0 2 0 2 Seattle 26 25 .510 9112 6-4 Lost1 14-10 12-15 16-12 
Sweden vs. Czechoslovakia LA Clippers 25 25 .500 10 5-5 Won3 18-8 7-17 15-17 Czechoslovakia 0 0 2 2 
Finland vs. Unified Team

The Observer/Brendan ReganSacramento 17 33 .340 18 5-5 Lost2 14-11 3-22 8-23 
Sweden 0 0 2 2 
Luxembourg 0 1
Saturdoy'a Games Tueaday'a Gamea 0 Cleveland 128, New Jersey 92 Sacramento at New York, 7:30p.m. indiana 117, Minnesota 101 Orlando at Detro~. 7:30p.m. TRANSACTIONS
ICE DANCING
Chicago 99, New York 98 Cleveland at Milwaukee, 8:30p.m. Dallas 103, Houston 99 Philadelphia at Dallas, 8:30p.m. National League 
1. Marina Kllmova and Sergei Ponomarenko, BASEBALL CiNCINNATI RED5-Agreed to terms whh Tlm
Utah 106, Denver 93 Phoenix at Portland, 10 p.m. Phoenix 124, Washington 98 Wednesday'• Gamea UnWied Team, 2.0 American League Belcher, phcher, on a one-year contract. 
2. Isabelle Duchesnay and Paul Duchesnay, HOUSTON ASTR05-Agreed to terms whh Craig
Golden State 140, Seattle 122 Detroit at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. BALTIMORE ORIOLE$-Traded Craig Sunday'• Gomea Chicago at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. Franoe,4.4 Worthington, third baseman, and Tom Martin, Biggio, catcher, on a one-year contract. Detroit 90, Philadelphia 83 Washington at AUanta, 7:30 p.m. 3. Mala Usova and Alexander Zhulln, Un"led pitcher, to the San Diego Padres for Jim Lewis, PITISBURGH PIRATE5-Agreed to terms with Orlando 118, Milwaukee 104 Sacramento at Indiana, 7:30p.m. Team, 5.6 p~cher, and Steve Martin, o""lelder. Assigned Doug Drabek, phcher, on a one-year contract. 
Charlotte 126, Mlami 109 Denver at Charlotte, 8 p.m. 4. Oksana Grkachuk and Evgeni Platov, Unified Steve Martin to Rochester of the international ST. LOUIS CARDINALs-Agreed to terms with Boston 114, LA Lakers 107 Boston at Golden State, 8 p.m. Team, 8.0 League. Bob Tewksbury, p~cher, on a one-year contract. San Antonio 112, Sacramento 106 Minnesota at San Antonio, 8:30p.m. 5. Stefanla Calegarl and Pasquale Camerlengo, BOSTON RED SOX-Agreed to terms whh John BASKETBALL 
LA Clippers 107, Portland 106 Dallas at Utah, 9:30 p.m. ftaly, 10.0 Cerutti, phcher, on a minor-league contract. National Baaketball Association Monday'a Gamea LA Lakers at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. 6. Susanna Rahkarno and Petri Kokko, Finland, KANSAS CITY ROYAL5-Agreed to terms with NBA-Fined Miami forward Willie Burton $6,500 
late Gamea Not Included 12.4 Jell Montgomery, p~cher, on a one-year contract. and Charlotte forward Johnny Newman $1,500 Atlanta 117, Washington 110 7. Klara England Altila TOih, Hungary, 13.6 MILWAUKEE BREWERs-Agreed to terms whh and suspended Burton for one game for their parts New York 104, Miaml102 8. Dominique Yvon and Frederic PaDuei, Franoe, Cal Eldred, Mike Ignasiak and Mark Kiefer, In an altercation during Sunday's game. 
Indiana 128, Charlotte 117 pttchers; John Jaha and Pal llstach, Infielders; and CHARLOTIE HORNET5-Signed Cedric Hunter,
16.6 Cleveland 113, Chicago 112 9. Sophie Montone and Pascallavanchy, Dave Nllason and Joe Krnak, catchers, on one­guard, to a 1o-day contract. Minnesota 124, Houston 122, OT France, 17.4 year contnu::ta. Continental Basketball Asaoclatlon Boston at Utah, (n) 10. Katertna Mrazova and Martin Slmecek, OAKLAND ATHLETICS-Named Reggie Jackson CBA-Suspended Dave Everett, oenter, and Trag Phoenix at Seattle, (n) Czec:ho61ovakla, 20.6 assistant to the president for community aflalrs. Lee, lorward, of the Fort Wayne Fury for failure to San Antonio at LA Clippers, (n) 11. AprA Sargent-Thomas, Odgensburg, N.Y. SEAffiE MARINER5-Agreed to terms whh Eric abide by the league's substance abuse policy. LA Lakers at Golden State, (n) and Russ Wkherby, Clncimati, 21.6 Hanson, and Mike Schooler, p~chers, on one-year SIOUX FALLS SKY FORCE-81gned Marc 
12. 
Jacqueline Petr and Mark Janoschak. contracts. lavaroni, forward, for the remainder of the season Canada, 24.8 TORONTO BLUE JAYs-Agreed to terms whh and named him assistant coach. Signed Antoine 

13. 
Anna Crod and Luca Mantovan~ haly, 25.0 Duane Ward, phcher; Ed Sprague, catcher; Nance, forward. Un~ed States Basketball League

14. 
Regina Woodward and Caaba Szentpetery, Domingo Martinez, first baseman, and Derek Bell, PHILADELPHIA SPIRIT-Named Ed Gershman Hungary, 29.0 outfielder, on one-year contracts. project coordinator and Evan Ross public relations 

15. 
Rachel Mayer, Wellesley, Mass. and Peter director. Breen, Brockton, Mass., 29.0 




Resolution: 1h h uld  en lty IIsh •  
9:00pm Tuesday February 17  •*Fianner vs. Grace• •OC vs. *Lyons• •*Sorin vs. St. Ed's • •*Alumni vs. Morrissey• *Indicates host dorm  

-~--­

------~...--------------------------------------­
page 12 The Observer Tuesday, February 18, 1992 
Duchesnays angered by rules 
ALBERTVILLE, France {AP) -This time the Duchesnays ­not their fans -lashed out at the staid ice dancing establish­ment. 
Isabelle and Paul Duchesnay, the Olympic silver medalists, criticized the sport's officials after Monday's competition, saying they felt inhibited by a strict interpretation of the rules. 
Their "West Side Story" free dance was more conservative than some past dances, and the Duchesnays pointed the finger at judges and referees. 
"We were formally told, 'You must do it this way,' " said Isabelle. "We did feel we were very constrained." 
While the Duchesnays felt limited, the gold medalists Marina Klimova and Sergei Ponomarenko of the Unified Team, were performing a sen­sual routine that featured a half-dozen unique lifts and car­ries. 
The Duchesnays have always been different, skating to exotic music, selecting unusual dance themes. They have taken some liberties with the rules, intro­ducing illegal lifts, costuming that sometimes includes props 
1OOOm Jansen's last medal hope 
ALBERTVILLE, Fram~e (AP) 
-Now that Dan Jansen's 
kept his feet, it's time for the 
next step: winning a medal. 
His last chance is Tuesday, 

when Jansen returns to the 
rink for the men's 1.000 

meter speedskating. In three 
Olympics, Jansen has won 
hearts and provoked tears, 
but never taken home a 
medal. 
Two fourth place finishes in 

his strong event -the men's 
500-are the best he's done. 
The worst is Olympic 

history. 
Jansen went to Calgary in 

1988 expecting medals in 
both the 500 and the 1,000. 
Instead he found heartbreak 
and the ice, falling in both 
events after learning his 27­
year-old sister had died of 
leukemia. 
Jansen has since set the 

world record in the 500, and 
stands fourth in the World 
Cup 1,000 rankings. 
He skated again Saturday 

In the 500 and finished 
fourth. Not great, but still a 
victory -after all, he 
finished. But for an athlete 
who once had a chance to 
claim gold and glory, it was a 
disappointment. 
In 1988, Jansen was 

skating on a world record 
pace when he fell 400 meters 
from the finish line. Now, on 
the rough ice of Albertville's 
outdoor oval, Jansen won't 
be looking for a record ­
only a medal. 
"It hasn't been my strongest race," Jansen said. "The 500 is definitely my strongest race, but, sure, if I skate a solid 1,000 and have a good last lap, there's medal possibilities. Definitely. I have the speed to skate a good 1 ,000, and the strength. I've worked hard on endurance." 
Jansen's hopes were bol· stered Monday when Germany's Uwe-Jens Mey, a long-time rival and the winner of the gold in the 500. pulled out of the 1,000. 
Mey, 28. was scratched today from the race due to the flu. But there is other competition. 
and skating separately. 

When Christopher Dean choreographed the "West Side Story" routine last year, he felt he had to play it by the book, Paul said. 
"We could have done more interesting moves but Chris felt chained by the rulebook," he said. "You don't get the free­dom you would like." 
This season, they felt more imprisoned than ever. They felt the establishment's eyes upon them. 
"They follow us quite closely and sometimes television films our programs at shows," Paul said. "So the feedback is almost immediate. 
"If they tell us to change some stuff we either have to ig­nore them and hit a stone wall in competition or go along with them and change it." 
After years of being on the outside, the Duchesnays thought they had found com­plete acceptance by judges at last year's world champi­onships. They won the free dance and the title. 
Those outside the sport have often criticized ice dancing's subjectivity. In past years, many judges have favored the more classical style of ice dancing skated by the Russians, who have dominated the sport since it was introduced into the Olympics in 1976. 

Dean and his partner Jayne Torvill were the first to chal­lenge the judges and stretch the rules. The Duchesnays have done the same. 
Even Klimova and Ponomarenko don't think much of some of the sports regula­tions. 
"If you know some of the rules, many of them are stupid," said Sergei Ponomarenko. 
After what may prove to be their last amateur perfor­mance, Paul said he's not sure ice dancing should be a judged sport at all. 
"I think it should just be per­formed just to be enjoyed by the spectators," he said. "It's too subjective. You can't really always judge it fairly. It's almost impossible. It becomes a question of taste." 
The taste of the French crowd in the Olympic Ice Hall ran toward the Duchesnays' "West Side Story,'' but they were strongly receptive of the Russians' dance to Bach. 

Jordan's 46 not enough as Bulls fall to Cavs 
CHICAGO {AP) -Craig Ehlo had four points as Cleveland outscored Chicago 6-2 in the final 1:32 and snapped the Bulls' 14-game home winning streak with a 113-112 victory Monday night despite Michael Jordan's 46 points. 
It was only the third loss in 26 games at Chicago Stadium for the Bulls. The Cavaliers, who lost their 12 previous regular-season games against Chicago, still trail the Bulls by 7 1/2 games in the conference and division standings. 
Brad Daugherty scored 25 points and Mark Price 23 for the Cavaliers. 
The Bulls led 99-92 midway through the fourth quarter, but the Cavs tied it 103-103 on John Williams' two free throws with 4:03 left. 
Chicago responded by taking a 110-107 edge before Larry Nance converted two free throws, pulling Cleveland within one with 1:3 2 remaining. 
Ehlo drove the lane for a basket and a 111-110 lead with 1:04 left and added two free throws 20 seconds later for a 113-110 advantage. 
Jordan responded with a 
pull-up jumper from 15 feet with 34 seconds left, leaving the Cavs with a 113-112 edge. 
Scottie Pippen, who scored 24 points for the Bulls, had a chance to put Chicago ahead with 6.0 seconds left, but his shot went ofT the rim. 
Neither team could get a lead of more than four points in the third quarter, which ended with the Bulls ahead 90-88. Chicago shot 63 percent in the quarter and got 14 points from Jordan and 10 from John Paxson, while Cleveland was 59 percent from the field behind Price's 11 points. 
A 10-2 spurt, with Daugherty hitting three baskets, gave the Cavaliers a 48-41 lead with 5:47 remaining in the first half, and they extended the margin to 59-51 with 2:04 left. 
Chicago then scored the last nine points of the quarter for a one-point lead at halftime de­spite Cleveland's 68 percent shooting in the first two peri­ods. 
The Bulls led 27-25 at the end of the first quarter despite being outshot 69 percent to 57 percent. 

The AT&T Calling Card will never go to waste. You can use it to make a call from almost 
at UIIJifl-f, ·,_.~--/ 
HI-1:)1 tn. to~ ~7•t :t-ui 
---­

anywhere to anywhere. Once you have one, you'll never need to apply for another. It's the least expenstve way 
to call state-to-state on AT&T when you can't dial direct. 0 And now you could also get 10% hack on all 
the long distance calls you make with your card.* 0 Of course when you use your Calling Card, you'll 
always be connected to the reliable service you've come to expect from AT&T. 0 So, as you see, there's 
only one way to descrihe the AT&T Calling Card in today's college environment. Indispensahle. 
Get an AT&TCalling Card today. Calli 800 654-0471 Ext. 9728. 
• Must make astteast $30 worth ol AT&T Long D>stance calls w>th your AT&T Card per quarter Calls covered by spec1al AT&T 
pnc1ng plans are not 1ncluded ©1992AT&T 


r-----------------------­
--~-­

Tuesday, February 18, 1992 The Observer 

Top-seeded u.s. tollegin:m~i'otiAdll Tyson 
MERIBEL, France (AP) ­The U.S. hockey team gained the top medal-round seed in its Olympic group Monday night despite blowing a 3-0 third-pe­riod lead to world champion Sweden and settling for a 3-3 tie. 
Ray LeBlanc stopped 45 shots but not even he could save the United States' dream of becom­ing the country's first un­beaten, untied Olympic cham­pion since 1960. The 4-0-1 start mirrors the record that the Mir~cle on Ice club brought into the 1980 medal round. 
The Americans. who hadn't allowed any third-period goals in their first four games, meet France (2-3) in a Tuesday quarterfinal. 
With the goalie pulled and a sixth attacker on the ice, Mikael Johansson scored with 21 seconds to play to give the Swedes (3·0-2) the tie and let them stay in second place in Pool A. 
Johansson tried a wraparound from LeBlanc's left and the puck deflected off the right skate of U.S. defenseman Dave Tretowicz and into the net. 
The Swedes will face Czechoslovakia in a Wednesday quarterfinal. A loss would have let Finland {3;,1-1) jump past Sweden; instead, th~thirdj place Finns must play ~li~ formidable Unified Team on · Wednesday. _ 
The s-wedes seeme~ deter;; mined to avenge "the Shame in Chamonix" -a Feb. 5 pre-Olympic loss.to the United States, after which Swedish players and coaches accused American players of overly 
physicalplay. • Sweden did more than make accusations Monday. 
Just 2:04 int() the gall1e, Mats Naslund, who once won al). NHL trophy for gentlemanly behavior, bloodied the face of 
U.S. def~mseman Greg Brown with a vicious hit along the boards. The hit might have been_ counterproductive; Naslund, one of Sweden's best players. was ejected and the United States appeared to gain emotionally; 
The Americans were emQ· tionally charged well before the hit. It took only 36 seoondsJor Clark Donatelli to tip Tim Sweeney's feed past Sweden goalie Roger Nordstrom. __ 
LeBlan(l continually baile'd out a U.S. defense that played well in spots but gave up several exc.ellent scoring chances. LeBlanc stopped three 
br~H,k_aways and at Ieast2c.O otll~rdead-o:n_shot~;·x ..-..-···--•__• 
_-,a:~.. ha;spla;yf:ld ¢\t(:\ty m 
of the tournament and has 
lowedomy seven gqal~. He-had 
.<I.. ~l ing ofJ~6 
u 39 ds snappe 
T y Sjo in at 6:21 of the 
third perlod.Hakan Loobma;de 
it 3•2-with a power~'()lay<goat.a;t 
13:2!). 
By the tim~ Sjodin stored,Jhe 
Ani~-t'~can~ had a three-goli} 
lead. Ted Donato gotloose f(lta 
breakaway and slid the puck 
between N()r(fstrom:s pad~ ~t 
7:18-Qf the second period. ~t 
2:42 ofthe third. Donato setup Marty Mcinnis for a shot over Nordstrom. ' !t . 
Hard hits were exchanged all 
game, starting with Naslunfi's 
flagrant charge. 
Naslund went the entire 
length of the U.S. defensive 
zone•. left hisfeet and slam~~~ 
Brpwn facl_l'~first into the 
boards behind the U.S. goal 
line. 
8roWIJ. $~Yed on the ic~ t:o-t: 
sever~ niinutes before leaving 
with a cut above his right eye 
an.d a;~ross __ th'e bri.dge -of his 
·ndseLU;S. cQach.Dave Peterson told CBS-TV that Brown had suffered a .. concussion and asked that Naslund.,Pe thrown out ofthe tournament. 
continued from page 16 
definitely has a fighting chance. 
And what does this whole ordeal mean for the sport of boxing? With its number-one money maker out of the ring, it can only hurt boxing's popularity. Holyfield, Foreman, Buster Douglas, et al. simply cannot hold the public's atten­tion like Tyson can. 
Finally, what does the Tyson verdict mean for sports in general? Certainly after the William Kennedy Smith trial and the Anita Hill affair, women's faith in the American system had to have been shaken. 
But with the jury finding Tyson guilty, it sends a signal to all famous people, including sports personalities, that their fame and fortune does not necessarily protect them in dis­putes against the common man. They will be held up to the same standards as any other criminal. 
The fall of the sports idol has had its consequences. No longer are the Michael Jordans and the Ken Griffey Jrs. the romantic heroes of yesteryear that Joe DiMaggio and Babe Ruth were. 

Pizza Hut is proud to support FIGHTING IRISH BASKETBALL 
Tonight at 7:30p.m. 
Notre Dame vs. Marquette 

and featuring 
THE PIZZA HUT FREE TUITION HALFTIME 
------------.
2 Large : 

Cheese Pizzas; $10.00 I 
~I 
~ : 
~ut.. 1 
I 

Delivery/Carryout 1 & Dine-in I I 
SHOOT OUT 
r-----,._..,. .. 
(win up to $2,000 towards your tuition) 1 All You can .t.at 
Notre Dame students only. Two students selected at random. 1 SpaghettiNext Pizza Hut Shoot-out: ND vs. Loyola Feb. 27 We accept Papa John's and Domino's coupons : $4.99 
Delivery & Carryout 232-2499 
~ITf OAK 
1 Includes Dine-in at I spaghetti, salad, Downtown 282-2543 ; &beverage or Roseland (US31 N) 1 Sunday 11am-4pm277-2121 
; ~ 
I :flut. 
1 Dine-in Only 
IT'S aor! 

BUFFALO HOT WINGS 
•
t AVAILABLE FROM 6 PIECES TO : A 30-PIECE BUCKET
•
t *BRING IN TillS AD AND GET $1.00 OFF A 30-PIECE BUCKET t HOURS: 8:00P.M.-1:00 A.M.-SUNDAY-THURSDAY : 8:00 P.M. -2:00 A.M. -FRIDAY AND SATURDAY t THE NITE OAK-IN SOUTH DINING HALL 
But society and the press as well will no longer turn a blind eye to sports stars' indiscretions. Jose Canseco's arrest for possession of a concealed weapon is only the latest indication that there is no longer a special status conferred upon athletes with regard to the law or society's moral standards. 
People ask how the Hall of Fame can keep Pete Rose out and allow drunkards such as Grover Alexander and yes, Babe 
· Ruth, in. It's only because of this change in America's thinking that this question is even asked. 
Tyson may still be a role model for inner city youths looking for an example of someone who's "made it" in the world. 
But he is also a shining example of our intolerance of athletes thinking they can get away with anything because they're Mike Tyson. 
When Ali returned to boxing in 1970, he was not quite as brash or flashy as he was when he first won the heavyweight title. Three years away from the sport had brought a touch of humility to the man, and his fans adored him even more. 
Let's hope the same can be said of Tyson if and when he returns from his exile. 
Irish hockey splits with Kent State 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame hockey team split a weekend series at Kent State last weekend, winning the opener 6-5 on Friday night before falling 3-1 on Saturday. 
In the first game, the Irish (9­15-1) scored three goals in the second period to force Golden Flash goalie Mario LaCasse from the game. Sophomore de­fenseman Matt Osiecki scored the game-winner. 
In the closing game, the Irish were unable to muster a potent offense in falling 3-1. Kent State had won six of seven pre­vious games before facing the Irish, including wins at Boston College and Providence. 
st tJdc:nts 
l~ltCd 
liS 
711.. 

® 
INCLUDES 
ROUNDTRIP AIRfARl' GRE.AT HOTE.l ACCOI.tMOOJ. T IONS' ROUNDTRIP AIRPORT TRASSrtRS' ALL HOTEL TAKES. S[RVICE. CH.O.FI((S AND GRATUITIE.S' 
PLUS r..tUCH l.tOR['
: reserYe now! 
1-800-331-3136 
L'embf'r 
,~·'·,
•
t --ASTA-• 
t 
'<:~r... t~.triur;Socrrfr c• Trovel Avrnt~ 
AmericanAirlines· 
S,.t~ll('lhm~ Jf"-'CJnf"' t/]1(' tJit 
t-~~ oirJomoico~ 
~ : ..____...... 


·--------------~-~--------------------­
page 14 The Observer 
Tuesday, February 18, 1992 
Herschel, 4-man sled seek 1st medal since '56 
•

WORLDWXD:E: OOJdltiDON'I:C.&.TJ:O:N'II 
Through the University's connection to the international Internet and BITNET computer networks, it's possible to send and receive electronic mail virtually 
.. 
anywhere in the world-instantly! 

E~PJ1t 
MACINTOSH 

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ ~ The 1992..93 Registration and ~ Budget packets will be ~ available to be picked up from the ~ Club Coordination Council office ~ (room 206 LaFortune) on ~ Feb. 17.. Feb.19. ~ The packets must be completed ~ and returned by Wed. March 4. ~ No exceptions!! All social service ~ & graduate clubs must also ~ pick up their forms from ~ the CCC office. 
SPORTSBRIEFS 

•Attention 
ND/SMC Sailing team and anyone who likes to sail: There will be a mandatory meeting Monday, February 17, at 8:15p.m. in room 204 O'Shaugnessy. Everyone is welcome to attend, including freshmen. 

•The 
new B.ookstore Basketball commissioner for 1992 is Andy Sinn. and the following people have been named assistant commissioners: Theresa Forst. Bobby Sullivan, Pat Coleman, Allen Echiverri, John O'Rourke, John Neal, Dan Gutchewsky, and Scott Buccellato. Congratulations to everyone. 

•Attention 
all freshmen: The· Student Managers Organization will have an Informational meeting for all interested in assisting the male and female athletes of Notre Dame. The meeting will be held Wednesday, Feb. 19 at 8 p.m. in the Loftus Football Auditorium. Any questions please call the Manager's Office at 239-6482. 

•Attention 
Rowing Club: There will be an important meeting this Wednesday at 7:30 in room 120. Cushing. Spring break balances are due. 


Hey 10-10, Wanna nuggle? 
G E ==x= • 
WHTCH !HIS WEEII FOR "ORE IIFOH"HTIDI 011 VISIT -!HE I.IFORTUIE 01 DRVISSOI [2il D"SIII5] CUIIPUJER 
:Z Q • CLISIEIS ID BEGII USIIG ELEC!ROII£ "RIL. •••TO 'FDnEc=:&=aO:NZC 'MATT, 
TUR N E 0 4 
future games. 
"I really think we can play Olivet tonight, and Kalamazoo on Saturday. We played Calvin in a tournament, we can play with them. Wheaton will be the toughest." 
"If we win the rest of these games, we would have an op­portunity to earn a berth in the playoffs," Cromer added. "But we have to win the game tonight. We just have to try winning one game at a time. If­we can do that and play Wheaton well, it will give us something to look forward to." 
ONLY YOU 
CAN PREVENT 
FORFSf FIRFS. 
Belles 

continued from page 16 
Belles held the Lady 
Buccaneers to just two points in 
a five-minute span. 
Junior guard Kristen Crowley said, "I think the zone slows us down. When we're fast break­ing, we're hard to beat. And when we play intense defense, we play intense offense." 
Another key in Saturday's win was a balanced offense. Three Belles players scored in double figures against Beloit. Junior center Julie Snyder led the Belles with 23 points. 
Senior forward Catherine Restovich tallied 15 points and junior center Kim Holmes added 10 to the Belles' successful offensive drive. The Belles will need to continue this even offensive attack to win tonight. 
Hurting the Belles will be the absence of senior forward Janet Libbing. In the earlier matchup, Libbing contributed 18 points and 10 rebounds to the team's efforts. 
She is also the Belles second 
S~C's Janet Libbing, s~own against Bethel, suffered a knee-injury~:fP
highest season scorer, with 235 
Will keep her out of the lineup as the Belles go for their fifth-straight win. 
points to date. and the Belles 
leading rebounder with 125. person to fill. But the girls did it Calvin and Wheaton, they have However, a torn knee ligament Saturday. They came right a shot at a post-season in the first half of the Beloit 
back," commented Cromer. tournament. game will put her out of action After tonight's matchup, the Wheaton will pose an obstacle for the remainder of the season. Belles will have three games for the Belles; however, coach 
"We've lost Janet and that's remaining. If they can spark big Cromer is confident that his going to hurt us. She's a hard 
wins against Olivet, Kalamazoo. team will be successful in their 
LA PLAGNE, France (AP) ­TWenty-four hours after finish­ing seventh in the two-man bobsled. Herschel Walker was back on the Olympic track Monday with three teammates turning in the best start time of the day. 
Unfortunately, it was only a practice run. 
"That wasn't bad for us," the NFL running back said. "We haven't done a four-man for the last two weeks." 
Driver Randy Will, sidepush­ers Joe Sawyer and Karlos Kirby, and brakeman Walker dominated the first run. They had the fastest start time of 
6.24 seconds en route to a run time of 1 minute ..21 seconds. 
In the second run they posted a 6.25 over the first 50 meters to tie for sixth with the No. 1 German s}fd. driven by 1988 silver medalist Wolfgang Hoppe. 
Their run time was 1:00.47, seventh-fastest in the field of 
38. Their combined time of 
2:00.68 put them third, behind 
Canada I and Switzerland Ill. "Things went very smooth." 
U.S. coach John Philbin said on a bitterly cold day high in the French Alps. "The good thing too is their load, which is very important. And that all comes down to teamwork. They've got that down very, 
very  good.  It's  very  
promising."  
Philbin  estimated  the  

Americans went at 85-90 per­cent speed, and said most teams weren't going all-out. He said they'll pick it up as practice continues through Thursday. 
Philbin said it will take 
Walker three or four pushes to 
make the transition from two­
man to four-man. 

"Things happen faster when you're on a four-man," Philbin said. "It comes out of the hole faster. and he has the ability to make that adjustment because he does have that great athletic talent." 
"You've got three guys who are pushing the sled away from you," Walker said, "so it's got to be a quicker hit and your first step has got to be on the ice real quick because you've got help pushing the sled. So they are totally different things." 
Philbin said the start of the 1,508-meter, 19-turn La Plagne track is the flatest in the world, putting pushing at a premium. 
"As you can see, this is a track meet. You've got tp get off the top the best, otherwise you can pretty much cancel it there. We have the athletes who can do it and the teamwork we've put together in the last two weeks." he said. 
The U.S. hasn't won a medal in the four-man since 1956. The closest call since then came in 1988, when Brent Rushlaw missed the bronze by two-hundredths of a second. 
Walker would like to get the medal that eluded him and two-man partner Brian Shimer. 
"I think we've got a very good chance. That's the reason I'm here.... I'm from the U.S.. I'm on the U.S. team and I'd like to see the U.S. win a medal," Walker said. 


CROSSWORD CAMPUS 

"'===========-"=-r===-v=====_a 
uesday, February 18, 1992 The Observer page 15 
BILL WATTERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
THE FAR SIDE 
GARY LARSON 

SPELUNKER JAY HOSLEH 
...,,~,~<:'~'>.W!•U·:C•;;''>CIC<:'f;o!Xi(NICS">Mif.<)M(:;~,,>J!«}}C!ES?i>z;c)M:i('»>).(}aK')!M"-f-)M;(;O)•C"'W'.._~.!I-:f~ill-·f-· 

• 


13 Fate 15 Long Island 
university 20 Extremely depressed23 Type of peach 25 Low-pitched
woodwind 27 Grammatical 
structures 28 Pitcher's statistic 31 Mr. Whitney 33 S 1 angy throw 35 Sailed 36 Aaron's specialty 37 Texas city 38 Comedian Don ---­40 First on the list 
(2 wds.) 41 Wood or leather worker 42 Like some bathing 
suits 45 Whip 51 Created 
ACROSS 
1 Pocket the cue ball 
8 Airline company 14 Beforehand bargain 15 Large shellfish 16 Shoots a gun again 17 Leaves 18 Lady sheep 19 Noisy disturbances 21 Part of NNP 22 "God's Little ----" 24 Slender fish 25 Italian seaport 26 Prearranged fight 27 Jazz percussion
instruments 29 Arabian seaport 30 Elinor of the Met 32 Gershwin piece, for 
short 
34 College courses 36 Track team 39 Self-centered one 43 Newspaper item, for short  DOWN  52 Employed 53 Yearn 54 Type of insurance 57 Ending for correspond 59 Mr. Conway  
44 Makeup of cards 46 Football's -Graham 47 Laminated mineral 48 German pronoun 49 ---­tide 50 Certain lodge member  1 Butter, jam, etc. 2 Hair style 3 Sports official 4 "----was saying .. " 5 Infield covering 6 Liz Taylor role, for short 7 Red-letter woman  
51  Fur coat material  8 Above:  Ger.  
55 Wire measure  9 Siestas  
56 Press ---­58 Solvent ingredient 60 Incomplete 61 Holy places 62 Fitted within one  10 Longshoreman'sunion (abbr.) 11 Whirlwind 12 Became a contestant  
another  
63 Garment workers  

e n t n -r; b A n n a a 1 II tlt l O t; e 0 " e S .,. 
February 21 

[ampuS-Wida Bkatlng Part};~ 
10:30-12:30 at the J.A.C.C. 25t skate rentals 
& 

FREE HOT CHOCOLATEll 
Saturday and Sunday February 22-23 Ski Trip 
to 

Cabrn•faa S'hi R~tso?t 
Package includes: Overnight accommodations at the Days Inn 
• Free Continental Breakfast (Sunday AM) Discount on Ski Rentals 
• Two-day lift ticket 
ONLY $65!! 

7 p.m. Popular Culture Group Film Series with discussion, "Cover­up: Behind the Iran-Contra Affair?" Auditorium, Science Hall, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Popular Culture Group and Justice Education, Saint Mary's College. 
7 p.m. Film, "The Conversation." Annenberg Auditorium. 
9:15 p.m. Film, "Easy Rider." Annenberg Auditorium. 
LECTURES 

4:15 p.m. Part of Sesquicentennial Series: Traditions of Learning at Notre Dame, "Poetry at Notre Dame." Panel discussion with John Engels, Sonia Gernes, John Matthias, Ernest Sandeon, and Jay Walton. Hesburgh Library Lounge. Sponsored by Graduate School, Department of English and Notre Dame Chapter of Phi Bete Kappa. 
MENU 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Chicken Romano Omelette Florentine Beef Stew w/Biscuit Baked Chicken Chili Cheese Macaroni Deli Bar Broiled Chicken Sweet & Sour Pork 
Reduce. Reuse. Recycle. Thank You. 
T()lfA L ~ fCA L l 
Thursday, February 20 8 PM & 10:30 PM 
lrIfll!~\ II ~A\ lr10 ll! CJ. 
Friday, February 21 Saturday, February 22 8 PM & 10:30 PM 
Shown in Cushing Auditorium Admission $2. 
THE SHIRT 
On Sale Now at the Student Government Office from 9 AM to 5 PM ONLY $5!! 
••"' ........."'"""' •••••• ...... :· ..... • , •••• ... •• & .....--•• 
S.U.B. COMMiSSIONER· 
Applications are Now available in the Student Government Office. 
Anyone looking for an exciting and challenging position with the Student Union Board should · apply NOW!! 
Applications are DUE March 6. 

Sports 

page 16 Tuesday, February 18, 1992 
Restovich paces Belles hoops 
By CHRIS BACON coach Don Cromer. "If she does Cromer. " She wants to make Sports Writer in life what she does in basket­things happen and she wants to 
ball she 'II be happy." help others. She doesn't do all Like father likl' daughter. " I've started since freshman the scoring. Some nights you It's a slight twist on the old year. but I never had the confi­don't score, you pass the ball." 
Pxprnssion, but the meaning is dence I had in high school. The Belles will look to the sanw, especially for Saint Then, you're the big wig. Here, Hestovich to lead them tonight Mary's Catherine Hestovich. you're among many," Hestovich against visiting Olivet College. Tlw four year starter for the added. "I never reached my po­Earlier this season in the Saint 
Belles has followed her father's tential. but this year I've re­Mary's Roundball Classic, Olivet basketball footsteps all the way ceived the permission, the con­squeaked past the Belles 84-81. to South Bend. fidence to play my game." In that game, Restovich rallied 
Hestovich's father. George, Hestovich creates commotion for 12 points, including a per­was a dual-sport athlete for not only on the offensive end. fect 6-6 at the line, and six as­Notre Dame in 1968. "My fa­As the Belles fourth leading re­sists. ther was always a big influence. bounder. Restovich grabs 5.9 Tonight, with the absence of He played basketball and base­boards per game, an improve­teammate Janet Libbing. the ball at Notre Dame," said ment over last season's 4.12 Belles will turn to Restovich to Restovich. rebounds per game. Of her total spark their offensive drive. 
The 5' 7" forward from 89 rebounds this season, 55 of Libbing led the Belles against Hochester. Minnesota leads the them come from her defensive Olivet with 18 points in their Belles in scoring this season, efforts inside the paint. previous encounter, but Cromer averaging 16 points per game. Restovich's presence on the is confident that Restovich will This is a tremendous improve­floor is not only seen in her fill the void that Libbing leaves ment over her 10.8 points per statistics. What makes her a behind. game last season. leader on the court is her un­"Catherine is a player that 
As a matter of fact, selfish play. makes things happen," Cromer Hestovich has already With 38 assists to her name, said. "Each year she has im­surpassed her total points last Restovich is known for helping proved. Now she drives to the 
season, scoring 240 points for her teammates make the big basket. She'll shoot the ball left the season this year compared plays. As a senior, she has the handed. You don't see many to 215 the year before. experience to do whatever it girls who will go in there and 
"She should be proud of her­takes to help lead the Belles to do a turn-around shot or shoot self. She has dedicated herself victory. left handed. She's not afraid to basketball," explained Belles "She's unselfish," remarked to." 
Warriors to invade the ACC tonight 
Irish flying high 
after win over 
Syracuse 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Editor 
.lust ovt>r two weeks ago, NotrP Dame came from behind to stun Marquette 69-63 in Milwaukee. 
Yet despite that victory and Marquette's 12-10 record, John Maci.Pod's Irish (9-11) squad is hoping to avoid a let-down on the heels of its 101-98 win over Syracuse. 
"I'm very pleased with the 
• way we played versus 

Syracuse." said MacLeod. "We eliminated the scoring droughts and I think we're starting to shoot the ball better. We need to shoot better because we can't continually say that the defense is going to hold us. I especially liked what Malik Hussell and Jon Hoss did coming off the bench. They were excellent. 
"Marquette is getting better. Ttwy've improved since the last time we played them. They've lost some dose games but they still are improving. That's a credit to their coach and cer­tainly to their players. OITensively, they're doing a very good job of running their of­fense and setting their picks." 
Damon Key. who netted 13 first-half points against the Irish in Milwaukee, leads the Warriors in scoring with an av­
• 
erage of 14.7 points per game. Hobb Logterman is second in scoring with 11.9. 
Aside from praismg Marquette's offrmsive prowess, MacLeod duly noted the potency of the Warrior defense. 
"Defensively, they seem to be much better with their man to man-much quicker and better reacting," said MacLeod. "They've improved on both of­fens!~ and defense. Their record d1wsn't reflect that, but if you look at the calibre of people that they've played and the closeness of the games, to me that's a barometer that you use. 


Tyson case provides harsh realities for athletes 
Last week, Mike Tyson lost the biggest decision of his career. 
We'll never know for sure the events of that fateful night last summer, although if the news reports of the trial were accurate, it certainly appears that the jury was corrp,ct in its verdict. 
What we do know is the result. 
A jury found Tyson guilty of rape and two counts of deviate sexual conduct last Rene Ferran Monday, and he now faces up to 60 years in Out of Bounds an Indiana state prison. 
Even if he should receive a "light" sentence (1 0-20 years) and time off for good behavior, he will most likely serve around five years in jail, meaning the end of his boxing career. 
Or is it? 
Consider the case of Muhammed Ali. 
Ali was banned from boxing for three years (1967-19701 becausp, of his refusal to be inducted into the military during the Vietnam War. 
His absence took place during what are considernd the peak years of a boxer's career, and many boxing fans still wonder what his career would have been like if he had fought during those years. 
However, what is known is that when Ali returned from his three-year ban, he was able to win the heavyweight crown twice more before finally hanging up the gloves for good. 
What does this mean then for Tyson, the top eontender for the heavyweight title now held by Evander Holyfield'? It certainly bodes well for the ex-champion. who, if the above seenario holds true, would still be able to box, and box well, if or when he is paroled. 
If George Foreman can fight into his 40s, then Tyson, should he maintain his physical stamina during his prison stay, 
see TYSON I page 13 
The Observer/John Rock Freshman Malik Russell, seen here skying for a shot against Syracuse, is one of a group of freshmen providing depth for the Irish. 
"We won't be overconfident, because after we played Duke we played Detroit," continued MacLeod. "And Detroit popped us here at horne. I don't think we're going to be overconfi­dent. We only have eight games left and our players are well aware of what Marquette did to us in the first half at Marquette. 
"They shot 80 percent in the first half and we were down by 20, so they are keenly aware of what this Marquette ballclub is. So I don't think there's going to be any problem getting our players ready based on what Marquette did to us in the first half of the first game." 
The Irish are currently two games under .500 and face second-ranked UCLA at the ACC on Saturday. For a team still harboring hopes of post­season play, tonight's game against the Warriors is a must win situation, and a couple upsets in the remainder of the season are also necessary. 
With the leadership of four seniors determined to go out on a strong note. anything can happen. It will be an uphill battle, but this team seems to perform best when the odds are against them. 

By CHRIS BACON 
Sports Writer 
Can they make it five in a row? That is the question on many minds today as the Saint Mary's basketball team (8-8) hosts Olivet College tonight at 7 pm in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
The Belles are currently riding high on a four-game win streak following Saturday's 77-72 vic­tory against Beloit and hope to stretch it to five. The Belles may have one problem,though. and that is tonight's opponent. 
At Saint Mary's Houndball Classic, Olivet squeaked passed the Belles 84-81. Tonight the Belles are looking for revenge. 
"We played Olivet in the tour­narnent and tlwv hit the three pointers against us. WP're not going to let tlwm hit the threP pointers," explained Bt-IIPs roach Don Cromer. " Tlwy beat us 81-84. Ilopdully, we'll bP able to rnvers1~ that score and bPat them." 
For tonight's matchup. the BPiles will have to dose the de­fensive holes and stop Olivet's shooting game. The Belles' zone defense allowed Olivet to open up on thP outside, enabling them to sink six easy trifectas. 
The Belles will also have to continue executing the fast break and pressuring man-to­man. In the second half of Saturday's Beloit game, the 
see BEllES I page 14 


