The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 64 THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Fellowship available to students 
By CHRIS HANIFIN 
News Writer 
For a few industrious upper­classmen, the Echoing Green Public Service Fellowship, an exciting post-graduate oppor­tunity, will provide vast experi­ence in the business world and the opportunity to help others. 
"This fellowship is one way to learn amazing skills that you can take anywhere," said Dolly Saengswang, program director for Echoing Green. "It is a one­year fellowship applied for in your senior year which allows you to go out and start a public service program. We want to help you create your own vision of social change." 
The fellowship consists of a $15,000 stipend, which is to be used in some type of non-profit venture to benefit the commu­nity. Saengswang characterized the stipend as "seed money" which a young entrepreneur could use in fund-raising , staff development, or any other necessary endeavor. "Think of this fellowship as a springboard," she said. 
"I know it is a hal"d time and there are a lot of options," Saengswang said. "This is an opportunity to do something very different from what most of your friends are doing." 
"Fund raising is intimidating, and it takes up a lot of time. It's especially hard for a twenty­two year-old with no track record to get money. As a foundation, our stipend gives you some backing, some credi­bility in attempting to solicit more funds from other sources," she said. 
According to Saengswang, the fellowship does not stop there, however. "Unlike many other fellowships, we also at­tempt to give advice and access to technical expertise in addi­tion to money. We try to get you hooked up with other fellows, and also try to help you develop relationships with more experienced non-profit leaders through conferences." 
"They are extremely good at making sure that what you want to do gets done," said Curt Peterson, '87. Peterson is currently participating in an Echoing Green Fellowship at 
see FELLOW I page 4 


The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 
In the spirit of Christmas 

Kim Thornton, an off-campus senior, gets into the spirit of the Christmas season by taking part in a tree-trimming celebration yesterday in LaFortune Student Center. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The 
White House unveiled food la­
beling rules Wednesday that for 
the first time will enable 
consumers to directly compare 
the nutritional value of every 
packaged food in the grocery 
store. 
Labels on all processed foods 
will not only show calories, total 
fat, saturated fat, cholesterol, 
sodium, carbohydrates and 
protein, but will also put them 
all in the context of a daily diet 
of 2,000 calories and 65 grams -of fat. 
Such designations as "low­
fat," "high-fiber" and "light" 
will be based on federally im­
posed definitions. Serving sizes 
will be uniform. 
Health and nutrition groups 
praised the decision, but a meat 
industry official said the labels 
would confuse people. Raw 
meat and poultry are not in­
cluded, but any products con­
taining meat and processed 
meat, such as bologna, are 
covered. 
Currently, high-fat foods 
rarely carry nutrition informa­
tion. Labels that do include 
sue 

SYR, rape policy being discussed 
Editor's Note: The following is the first in 

Illfilli ilLac 
a three-part 


changes du ,. Lac will un-First of a three-part series 
dergo at the ...____________
_.J 

end of the school year. The other two parts will run tomorrow. 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
News Writer 

Possible revisions of the date rape policy and changes regarding residence hall semi-formals are the changes now being discussed for the up-coming summer revision of du Lac. 
The administration will also examine trends of incidents that have occurred throughout the year that du Lac may need to be amended or revised to accommodate during the spring. 
Thus far, there are no trends or incidents of concern to the administration, according to Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for Student Affairs, but he said they will be in a better position to analyze the school year late this spring. 
Currently, the Campus Life Council (CLC) is investigating and discussing issues they and students would like to see addressed during the revision process. 
see DU LAC I page 4 

sands of labels would cost in­dustry about $2 billion. 
"While we do not agree with each and every decision, we will now start the enormous job of providing this new information to consumers as soon as possible," said C. Manley Mol­pus, president and chief execu­tive officer of the Grocery Manufacturers of America. 
The labeling rules will not apply to restaurant menus, but any restaurant that posts a sign advertising a "low-fat" food must make sure the food com­plies with the government's definition. 
Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif., one of the law's authors, said it 

on varied serving sizes, and Madigan, who had opposed also requires menus to comply words used to describe food putting the sample diet on the with gov.ernment definitions have no set meaning. labels, said he supported the and exempting them "is 
"To put it simply, the Tower of decision and expected quick unfortunate and probably ille­Babel in food labels has come implementation of the rule. gal." down, and American consumers Sullivan said food companies are the winners," said Health will likely begin putting the new Kessler and Sullivan had in­and Human Services Secretary labels on their foods next year, sisted in a dispute within the Louis Sullivan. but won't be required to do so administration that packaged 
"The gimmicks are gone," said until May 1994. food labels include the chart Food and Drug Administration He estimated the process of that presents each nutrient as a Commissioner David Kessler. changing hundreds of thou-percentage of a total daily diet. 
Officers: Students must always stay alert 
By THERESA ALEMAN 
News Writer 
Students must stay alert to their surroundings said Rex Rakow director of Security along with South Bend Police Department Sergeants George Gherardi and David Chapman in a safety lecture yesterday. 
Although crime is relatively low in apartments rented by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, simple measures such as keeping track of the serial numbers of valuable items will greatly reduce incidents of theft, said the officers. 
They said that residents of off-campus houses can spend as little as nine cents per night to light the outside vicinity of houses to discourage burglars. 

Befriending neighbors is the most effective means of crime prevention in apartments and houses, said Gherardi. 
In addition to urging safety for off-campus residents, Offi­cers warned students to safe­guard themselves against crime at off-campus parties and bars. 
According to Gherardi, major crimes which generally vic­timize students include as­saults, robberies, and automo­bile accidents outside parties or bars where students have been drinking and judgement is im­paired. To minimize these, Gherardi suggested students appoint not only a designated driver but a designated alert person. 
Chapman, acknowledging tension between students and 
police, agreed "'ith the idea of appointing a designated alert person, but added that students should also drink responsibly to avoid confrontations with the law. 
"Most students are arrested for disrespect to officers, re­gardless of the charges," said Chapman. Excessive drinking causes students to act out of character, challenging police authority, according to Chap­man. 
He said that while police exist to protect and serve, their powers are limited and they need help. He concluded, "We're people too. When you see us, go ahead and wave... Just make sure you use all five fingers to do so." 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
University and freedom not on speaking terms 

Have you noticed that there are some things we ·ust don't talk about around here? Have you noticed that people are actually afraid to talk 
about these things? 
When Gerhard Casper, former dean of the law Becky Barnes school and provost at the Asst. News Editor University of Chicago, accepted the position of'--------­university president at Stanford in October, he gave an inaugural address that outlined the freedoms of a university. 
"A university's freedom must be the freedom of its members, faculty and students to think and speak for themselves. A university must not have dominant ways of thinking. No university can thrive unless each member is accepted as an autonomous individual and can speak and will be listened to without regard to labels and stereotypes," he said. 
Does this sound like the place you go school? 
A recent Scholastic article highlighted the problem. A member of Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and St. Mary's College, who wished to be identified only as "John," said homosexuals on campus feel that "we are not allowed to tell the truth about who we are." 
When Pax Christi wanted to circulate a petition addressed to the National Conference o Catholic Bishops asking the bishops to support legislation protecting the civil rights o homosexuals, Student Activities refused them permission to solicit signatures. Not only are homosexuals discouraged from speah.ing, but others can not even speak for them. 
The Scholastic article also discussed the issue of teaching verses research, or tried to. But "five (junior) faculty members refused to comment on that subject, and two spoke on the condition of anonymity." Do untenured professors feel they are risking their career to speak on this issue? 
A Student Government survey on sexuality done in 1989-90 revealed that only 5 of 21 date rape victims reported the incident to Notre Dame authorities because of "fear of either the University response or lack of confidentiality." 
These victims perceive an authority, real or imagined, that would harm them. They are afraid to talk about their experience. 
I was also told that the University Health Center can not give out information about birth control. I didn't know whether that was true or not, so I called over there to find out. But the director of the center was out for the day. and no one else would tell me anything. 
So I still don't know whether the center will tell you anything about birth control, but it was probably more revealing that it seemed to be such a sensitive topic that no one but the director would even discuss it. 
Casper said that a University must not have a dominant way of thinking. But it looks to me like people who find themselves outside Roman Catholic teachings, associated with that taboo word "sex," or dependent on the University for their career, don't always feel free to speak. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
News Alicia Reale Jennifer Habrych  Systems Matt Carbone  
Production Cheryl Moser  

• 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
H L 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Princess Diana favorite royalty in poll 
•LONDON-The Duchess of York, who was photographed topless with an American businessman, has done the most damage to the royal family, according to a poll published Wednesday in the Daily Express. Seventy-one percent of those questioned blamed the duchess for damage. Prince Charles placed second, with 20 percent saying he had done the most harm to the family, and 14 percent blamed Princess Diana. Diana remains Britain's favorite royal, according to the poll. Fifty percent thought Diana had done the most to improve the standing of the royals during the past two years. More people -57 percent -sympathized with Diana than with her husband, Charles, who polled 12 percent. Sixteen percent said they took no sides in their marital problems and 10 percent had no sympathy for either. The poll questioned 1,003 people Nov. 19-20 and has a margin of error of 3 percentage points. 
OF INTEREST 

•Auditions 
for Rodgers & Hammerstein's "Oklahoma" an upcoming production sponsored by the Saint Mary's Department of Communication, Dance & Theatre's will be held next week. Tryouts for singing roles will be held Monday at 7 p.m. in the Little Theatre of Moreau Center for the Arts. Dance auditions are scheduled for Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Regina Hall dance studio. All members of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community are welcome to attend. For more information, call the Communication, Dance & Theatre office at 284-4640. 

•"Winter 
Holidays Around the World" will continue with Fireside chats Thursday and Friday from noon until 1 p.m., in the Notre Dame Room in LaFortune Student Center. Guest speakers will discuss unique holiday experiences, from Hanukkah to Christmas to Kwanza. Lunch will be provided. 

•No 
Name Weekend Club is organizing students to create alternative social activities. This meeting will be held in the Sorin Room in LaFortune Student Center tonight at 9:30 p.m. The meeting is sponsored by Office of Alcohol & Drug Education. 


MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
Thursday, December 3, 1992 
.... :. 
FORECAST 
Cloudy and colder 
today with a chance 

of flurries and high in 
the upper 30s. 
Tonight continued 

chance of flurries low 
in the middle 20s. 

TEMPERATURES 1t 
City H L Anchorage 35 23 Atlanta 49 29 Bogota 66 48 Cairo 72 54 Chicago 44 31 Cleveland 37 30 Dallas 62 34 Detroit 41 32 Indianapolis 44 29 Jerusalem 57 46 London 55 47 Los Angeles 74 48 Madrid 66 43 Minneapolis 35 28 Moscow ·20 -18 Nashville 45 27 New York 46 36 Paris 57 52 Philadelphia 48 32 Rome 63 48 Seanle 41 39 South Bend 38 32 Tokyo 61 46 Washington, D.C. 45 32 


INDIANA 

Bol charged for stealing garbage truck 
•P 
RU, Ind.-A 13-year-old boy on probation was charged Wednesday with stealing a city garbage truck and driving it through town hitting cars, trees and a fire hydrant. The youth, who wasn't identified because of his age, was charged with auto theft, criminal recklessness and drunken driving in Miami Circuit Court, said chief deputy prosecutor Dan Banina. Police reports show the garbage truck damaged at least four cars, a fire hydrant and several trees. His blood-alcohol level was measured at .22 percent -well above the .1 0 percent definition for drunkenness. Mark Pyeritz, city street and sanitation foreman, said the 1992 GMC truck may be a total loss. It was worth $69,000. Pyeritz said he doesn't plan to keep keys in the trucks anymore. "We line the trucks up on the east side of the building, and would leave the keys in the trucks in case of a fire," he said. "We never thought too much about it because who's going to steal a garbage truck?" The youth had been scheduled to appear in court Wednesday on a charge of violating probation by skipping school, Banina said. 

•New 
Honor Code Hotline is now open for questions to be answered and/or violations to be reported anonymously. Call Kami Benson at 4704 or Kevin Schroeder at 1750. 

•"Office 
Visits/Plant Trips" workshop will be held this evening in the Hesburgh Library Lounge from 6:30 to 


7:30 p.m. Planning ahead for the ali-day second in­terview will be the focus of this session. The workshop is sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
•No Ski Team Club will have a meeting tonight from 
6:30 to 7:30 p.m. in room 127 Niewland Science Hall. Trips are still available for the Aspen/Snowmass adven­ture. Call Chris with questions at 273-2958. 
•Forms for Changing Dorms are available in Student Residences, 311 Main Building now until December 7, 1992. 
Viewpoint Cheryl Moser Sports Jonathan Jensen 
Graphics Accent Chris Weirup Laurie Sessa 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING December 2 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 301,523,350 -0.46 to 236.74 S&P COMPOSITE -0.86 to 504.59 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -8.11 to 3286.25

UNCHANGED 596 

GOW 
+ $0.80 to $335.10 
SILVER • $0.01 to $3.730 

• 
In 1950: Charles Bailly reported the discovery of a heart­lung device to revive the clinically dead. 

• 
In 1965: The National Council of Churches asked the United States to halt bombings in Vietnam. 

• 
In 1967: A team of surgeons in Cape Town, South Africa, headed by Dr. Christiaan Barnard, performed the first human heart transplant on Louis Washkansky. 

• 
In 1979: Eleven people were killed in a rush to see The Who in a general admission concert in Cincinnati, Ohio. 

• 
In 1984: More than 4,000 people were fatally stricken after a cloud of poisonous gas leaked from a pesticide plant operated by a Union Carbide subsidiary in Bhopal, India. 


Thursday, December 3, 1992 The Observer 
Gaidar defends free-market reforms 
MOSCOW (AP) -Acting Prime Minister YegDr Gaidar told a jeering Congress on Wednesday that the Russian people are smarter and more patient than the hard-liners who are trying to dump his government and block reforms. 
But conservative lawmakers simply returned the fire against Gaidar and President Boris Yeltsin during an inconclusive second day of debate in the Congress of People's Deputies, Russia's highest legislative body. 
Neither side yet commanded enough votes in the 1,041­member body to prevail in the battle over Gaidar's adminis­tration, which hard-liners say is leading the country to poverty and collapse. Yeltsin and Gaidar call the current troubles a painful but necessary step toward a market economy. 
Gaidar conceded the gov­ernment's program had failed to tame inflation, now 25 per­cent a month. But he said a de­dining number of strikes and public protests indicated grow­ing public acceptance of the switch to a free-market econ­omy. 
"There is no threat of hunger and cold. We have passed through the period of adapta­tion to reforms without social upheaval," Gaidar said. 
"Despite all the hardships re­sulting from the changes, de­spite all the obstacles that still must be overcome, the Russian people turn out to be smarter than politicians think." 
"The people clearly under­stand the need for reform and are ready to work, rather than rock the bmit of our well-being and future," he said. 
The opposition was not swayed. 
"Gaidar is a con man," said Mikhail Astafiyev, a leader of the hard-line Russian Unity faction in Congress. 
"He will almost certainly have to resign," said Dmitri Stepanov, another Russian Unity member. 
Hard-liners want to slow Yeltsin's economic changes and drop Gaidar, the architect of the reforms. 
Yeltsin has resisted lawmak­ers' demands that he nominate a prime minister for approval by the Congress. Because Gaidar is only "acting" prime minister, Yeltsin has not had to submit his nomination. Yeltsin has said he will not submit it unless forced to by Congress. 
Vladimir Shumeiko, first deputy prime minister, said Yeltsin would stand by Gaidar if forced to nominate a prime minister. 
Gaidar's speech was met by jeers and stony faces from the rows of burly, middle-aged former Communists holdovers from the old regime who were elected in March 1990, 17 months before the coup attempt that led to the collapse of the Soviet Union. 

Tiny town cuts employees to the bone 
SAN JUAN BAUTISTA, Calif. (AP) -The police chief is gone. So are the police and all the other employees of this small Spanish mission town. 
Faced with a budget crunch and a growing stack of bills it couldn't pay, the City Council fin~d the city's 12 employees. 
Since the public works de­partment shut down, volunteer fire chief Rick Cokley does the yard work around his two­engil'le fire house. Volunteers run city hall. A contractor picks up garbage. 
"There was no way out," said Robert Paradice, a city coun­cilman who now doubles as a front-desk volunteer at City Hall. 
"Hopefully, with volunteer help, we'll be able to keep our heads above water." 
The money problems in San Juan Bautista, a town of 1,650 about 60 miles south of San Jose, are facing local govern­ments around the country. 
"The revenue base for cities is just dwindling," said Debbie Thornton, spokeswoman for the League of California Cities, which represents the state's 469 municipalities. 
Many cities are "sticking their heads in the sand," said John O'Sullivan, whose Municipal Resources Consultants firm in Westlake Village advises cities on their financial condition. 
However, he said, "I don't know of many that let it get quite as bad as San Juan Bautista." 
Interim City Manager Russ Carlson, hired in September under a six-month contract to fix the fiscal mess, was on the job three days when he discov­ered how bad it really was. 
Officials were waiting to see how much came in from public sewer bill payments before writing checks to pay the debts, he said. 
Of the $800,000 annual bud­get, $300,000 was going to meet payroll. And the city was spending $12,000 to $15,000 a month more than it had, he said. 
At his recommendation, the council laid off its three full­time police officers, two office workers, a public works em­ployee and six part-time work­ers. 
Except for-Carlson, whose contract expires in March, the city now is functioning with about a dozen volunteers, in­cluding retirees and unem­ployed people. 
The San Benito County Sher­iff's Department is now policing the streets of San Juan Bautista. Residents say it helps that the sheriff lives in the city. 


Come participate in the 


FORT KNOX, Ky. (AP) ­President-elect Clinton plans to lift the ban on gays in the mili­tary, and most soldiers at Fort Knox and Fort Campbell say they'll accept the order from their commander-in-chief, al­beit reluctantly. 
"Clinton is the president-elect, and when he takes office, whatever he does I'm bound by oath to support," said Maj. Frederick Washington of Fort Knox. "Anybody in the Army should feel that way. I don't see any problem as long as we uphold the oath we took.... I think most people in the Army are professionals." 
Some soldiers said that sexual orientation would make little difference during an int~nse 
page 3 

battle. 
"If the going gets tight, you're going to forget about it in a time of war," said Col. Willie Pollard, who is the Army's senior adviser to the Indiana National Guard and was visiting Fort Knox recently. "But it's really going to disrupt the peacetime." 
That's what those in the mili­tary are worried about. And it's not easy for some to adjust to the change of the longstanding policy that bars gays from the military. 
When he pledged to lift the ban during his campaign, the president-elect said he would consult high-level military ad­visers, who reportedly are mostly against the idea. 
THE•POINTE 

AT SAINT JOSEPH 
Start the holidays offwith a cozy place to stay. 
The Pointe at Saint Joseph Apartments are nestled on the Saint joseph River bank and convienently located in downtown South Bend. 
•Close to ND Campus 
•Selected 1 or 2 bedroom apartments on special for a big Holiday Savings 
Your Luxury Apartment is waiting for you 
~ 
I 1 
1 

:---------------~---------­

page 4 
Fellow 
continued from page 1 
the graduate level. His project involves the organization of farm labor in the Yakima Valley region in Washington. 
"I didn't expect a fellowship sponsored by a venture capital firm to be very interested with my application which was filled with terms like union and boy­cott," said Peterson. His pro­posal was accepted however, and today his stated goal is "to facilitate the participation of farm workers in the commu­nity." 
Projects may be started in any field of public service, ac­cording to Saengswang. "We have left it open to you to de­cide. We are giving you the op­portunity to control your own show," she added. Among the suggested fields are the arts, education, housing, health, in­ternational development, youth development, or the environ­ment. 
In addition, the projects may 
administration is considering. "Sexual assault is an era of
duLac 
concern," said Kirk. "We will not only address the student
continued from page1 
concerns being talked about in the Campus Life Council, but du Lac changes might reflect 
"Student government is trying changes in federal regulations to formulate some legitimate, as well." concrete sense of how people Kirk cited the act proposed by feel," said Greg Butrus, student Rep. Ramstead, and the Crime body president and chairman of Awareness and Campus Secu-
CLC. rity Act, as federal regulations 
Through listening sessions, that changes in the rape policy CLC has formed a sense of in du Lac will likely reflect. which issues are important to Rex Rakow, director of Secu­students, said Butrus. rity, said th.at the Security De­
"These issues will will be partment will also make rec-reviewed and summarized in ommendations to Student Af­the very near future so that fairs regarding the rape policy. student government can make "We're involved in every re-its recommendations in the vision, but it is an internal pol-spring for this summer's icy" said Rakow. revisions," Butrus continued. Changes in the policy regard-
One change in du Lac that ing hall semi-formals are also CLC has been investigating is a being studied by the CLC, said revision of the date and Butrus. stranger rape policy to make it "There are all kinds of prob­"user-friendly." lems with the current structure 
The change that CLC including that the current rules recommends is a step-by-step governing SYRs were changed detailing of the process in du in the early 80s at the same Lac that rape victims would be time that there was a change in involved in if they chose to the alcohol policy," Butrus said. report the incident. An earlier proposal intro­
"We want to make the policy duced in the CLC by Marianne more understandable by peo­Ravry, co-chair of Hall Presi­ple," said Butrus. "We want the dents' Council, was to lower victim to have enough in­the percentage of student at-formation so they know what it tendance required to hold a would be to report it (a rape) semi-formal from 75 percent of before they jump off the ledge the dorm to 50 percent. and report it in a time when "The percentages are only they are very vulnerable. We part and parcel of the problem want them to know what the though," said Butrus. "The options are at every stage of the change needs to be as an insti­process." tution." 
Revision of the rape policy is He said that the CLC has now also a change in du Lac that the formed an ad hoc group 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 239-5303 and let us know. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assistant Accent Editor Accent Copy Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement to Jahnelle Harrigan by Friday, December 4 at 5 p.m. Contact Jahnelle at 239-5303 for more information. 
be implemented anywhere in the world. Saengswang com­ml;)nted that fellows are cur­rently working in Ecuador, Beijing, and Malaysia, as well as throughout the United States. 
The application process in­volves constructing a prospec­tus discussing one's proposal. The University will select the top five to seven applications which will then be further evaluated by the Echoing Green Foundation, which conducts telephone interviews. 
Eighteen schools currently are involved in providing fellowship candidates, said Saengswang. 
"We look for sustained build­ing in applications. Show us that you have a plan of action that will exist if you should de­cide to move on," Saengswang said. 
A workshop is run at the end of the summer following grad­uation for those whose projects are approved. "We run work­shops on strategic planning, staff development, fund raising, as well as in other important areas. We also provide the opportunity to sit down with more experienced business 
The Observer 

consultants," said Saengswang. 
"We help them [the fellows] 
develop their great ideas," she 
added. Fellows send a progress 
report on their project to the 
foundation after six months. 
The program originated through the efforts of several venture capital firms based in New York. According to Saengswang, each firm had been making individual contri­butions to public service. " 
Each hoped to do in non­profit organizations what it had been doing in business: Provide seed money for project de­velopment. They soon realized that a greater impact would be made if resources were pooled," she said. 
The fellowship was made available for graduate students three years ago; the undergraduate program is two years old. 
Anyone seeking an applica­tion to the fellowship or further information should contact ·Mary Ann Roemer coordinator of senior volunteer programs at the Center for Social Concerns or David Betson director of the Hesburgh Program in Public Service. 
assemble evidence in order to 
write a recommendation 
"grounded in empirical facts." 
Kirk said that Student Affairs 
is interested in working with 
the CLC on revising the policy 
governing semi-formals. , "We will look at whether or 
not they (semi-formals) are 
fulfilling the social life needs of 
students at Notre Dame any­
more," said Kirk. "We will look 
at the running of off-campus 
formals as well." 

Kirk said there are also areas 
of concern that the administra­
tion looks at very closely every 
time du Lac is revised. 

"We always look at judicial 
procedures to make sure that it 
is a fair and efficient process to 
address concerns," said Kirk. 
"We also look at trends of inci­
dents that occur and see if pol­
icy needs to be amended or if 
we are missing something in du 
Lac to deal with the incidents." 
The judicial branch of student 
government is gathering in­
formation to examine the hall 
judicial boards. The proposal 
for recommendations will be 
completed sometime in March, 
said Rich Delevan director of 
policy in the legal division of 
student government. 

Student government and the 
administration both emphasized 
that it is too early in the 
revision process to speculate on 
how much du Lac will be al­
tered. 

"It would be great for us if we 
knew now, but unfortunately 
that is not the nature of the 
work," said Kirk. "The open 
Ruthless slayings upset residents in Dallas suburb 
RICHARDSON, Texas (AP)-A high school student is slain at random by a marauding gang. Three young employees at a sporting goods store are tied up and their throats slashed. 
These are crimes that happen somewhere else. In a big city like Dallas. Not in a place like suburban Richardson. 
But within three weeks, the middle-class Dallas suburb has been shaken to its core by a pair of ruthless crimes. 
Violence has crossed the line 
Some People Think Nuns Are Always Serious and Unhappy.That's A Laugh. 
5TSTf.RS Of ST. BENEDICT
• 

separating the suburb of 75,000 from the city, and trepidation has quickly followed. 
"Richardson has a reputation of homes, good schools, a bedroom community, churches-," said Sgt. Ray Pen­nington, a 26-year police vet­eran. "People grow accustomed to having a relatively crime-free lifestyle." 
No more. November's killings have dispelled any illusions here that safety is a given in suburbia. 
ARSITY SHOP AT JAC 
Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross Faculty &Staff Christmas Sale Located in Boxing Room--Enter Gate 3 
Friday, December 4 2--5 p.m. 
Public Sale 
December 5 & 6 10 a.m.--2 p.m. 
--------------~--------~---------------~-----..------------~ 
Thursday, December 3, 1992 The Observer page 5 
The best D.C. advice: 'If in doubt, don't do it' 
WASHINGTON (AP) Washington is a town that seems to get a lot of people in trouble, so new House mem­bers spent some time Wednes­day learning how to avoid it. 
The best advice, one said: "If in doubt, don't do it." 
Pointing to an inch-thick ethics manual that was handed out to all 110 freshmen, newly elected Rep. Cynthia McKinney, D-Ga.. said, "The thickness of this book demonstrates that there are a lot of things that can trip you up." 
The newcomers heard private presentations from veteran colleagues on the maze of rules and regulations that govern the life of a Washington politician. 
There was this advice from Rep. James Hansen of Utah. the senior Republican on the ethics committee: 
"Please don't call a judge and tell him how to decide a case.... You can imagine the hot water you'd get into." 
The panel's chairman, Rep. Louis Stokes, D-Ohio, admon­ished newcomers not to take honoraria checks from groups to which they speak. New rules require that any speaking fees be mailed directly to a charity and not be handled by a mem­ber of Congress. 
Among other pieces of advice: don't accept campaign checks in your congressional office and don't mix official and campaign functions. Freshmen were given a phone number to call where three lawyers wait to answ.er their ethics questions. 
Stokes said his overworked committee wasn't looking for new business. "We're there to keep you OUT of trouble," he told freshmen. 
It's not a theoretical· exercise. The last several years on Capi­tol Hill have been dominated by news of scandal. House Speaker Jim Wright of Texas was forced from office over fi­nancial irregularities. 


The Observer/Maureen Long 

Searching for the perfect gift 
Many entrepreneurs, such as this woman with her Guatemalan Import sale in LaFortune Student Center this week, are attempting to lure students from their studies to buy some gifts during the holiday season. 
Shuttles sailing smoothly, but future is up in the air 
CAPE CANAVERAL. Fla. (AP) ''I'm hopeful that that will -NASA has finally mastered come to pass, that people will the art of launching shuttles on realize the space shuttle is a time, but it may be too late: good vehicle and it's good for Funds are down, costs are up, the country and we'll continue the military is out and a White-to fly it for a long time," said House task force wants the fleet deputy shuttle director Brewster 
replaced with something new. 
"The evidence has been building for years and years and years. There's just nothing for them (shuttle astronauts) to do up there, at least nothing that's worth the risk and the cost of putting them up there," said former NASA historian Alex Roland, now a history pro­fessor at Duke University. 
Wednesday's launch of Dis­covery capped a stellar year of eight shuttle missions, the most since the Challenger explosion. 
And all but one of the launches took place on the scheduled day -a big improvement over past years in which launches were frequently delayed by days or even weeks. 
For NASA, it seems too cruel an irony that the program may be outdated just as it is finally becoming reliable. 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ''om$JQ9
5 ana 7 NIGHTS 
DAYTONA BEACH f<om$ 68 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH 
''""'s Sf

5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT ''oe.$f29 
2. 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
MUSTANG ISLAND I PORT ARANSAS "om$fJ2J 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS •I 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND f<omSJ2J 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
FORT LAUDERDALE ,omSJ46 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
12th Annual Party! 


TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
'•800·321~5911 
Shaw, an ex-astronaut. . 
Two weeks ago, the Whrte House -task force recommended a new launch system ­manned and unmanned -that would be cheaper, safer and more reliable than the shuttle, which is based on 1970_s tech­nology. To pay for thrs new family of rocKets, the panel recommended reducing shuttle flights as soon as possible. . 
"The shuttle is very expensrve relative to its role in the U.S. space program," the task force said. 
NASA estimates each shuttle 
mission costs about a $500 mil­
lion, assuming a rate of eight 
flights a year, the goal for the 
foreseeable future. Some ana­
lysts, however, say the cost is 
closer to $1 billion. 
NASA is spending $5 billion this fiscal year on the shuttle program, less than last year but still more than a third of the agency's total budget. 

Report says home sales took a dive 
WASHINGTON (AP) -New home sales took their biggest dive in seven months in Octo­ber, the government estimated Wednesday in a report analysts said had become so unreliable that they expected the plunge to be revised upward. 
"Here we go again!" ex­claimed economist David Sei­ders of the National Association of Home Builders after seeing the preliminary report that sales fell10.3 percent. 
If so, it would be the steepest drop since an 11.5 percent decline last March, with sales slipping in each of the country's four regions. 
But the initial estimates by the departments of Commerce and Housing and Urban Devel­opment have been adjusted upward, often substantially, ev­ery month since September 1991. 
In fact, the 1 percent decline first reported for sales in September 1992 actually turned out to be a 7 percent increase, according to Wednesday's report. 

Estimated sales for October totaled 600,000 at a seasonally adjusted annual rate, which would be down from 669,000 a month earlier. 
Until October, sales had in­creased each month since May, which analysts attribute in large part to relatively low mortgage rates. 
In a related report Wednesday, the Mortgage Bankers As­sociation said the number of Americans behind on their mortgage payments edged up slightly in the July to September period to 4.8 percent from 4.77 percent in the spring quarter. 
The association blamed the deterioration on a large in­crease in delinquencies in Cali­fornia, much of which still suf­fers from the recession Still, delinquencies were well below the 5.07 percent of a year ago. 
Analysts expect a modest housing expansion to generate moderate job growth in the construction industry. Nonethe­less, some of the nation's top business economists contend there will be little improvement in the overall unemployment rate next year even with Presi­dent-elect Clinton's economic stimulus program. 
The National Association of Business Economists said Wednesday the median expec­tation of 41 professional fore­casters surveyed in late November was for economic growth of only 0.2 percent more than if President Bush had won re-election. As a result, they predicted the jobless rate would average 7.2 percent next year, slightly below the current 
7.4 percent. 

Teens and smoking: Think they can't quit 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The government has found what parents already knew: Kids who smoke are too sure of their ability to stop. They misjudge the addictive power of ci­garettes. They want to quit but can't. 
In fact, almost none of them kick the habit, said Abigail Moss, who led the research team for the National Center for 
One out of two people who take the LSAT don't get into law school. To improve those odds, Practice with Kaplan now--so you can be a practicing lawyer later. 
Sign-up now for the February LSAT class! PHONE: .272-4135 
KAPLAN 
The answer to the test question. 

Health Statistics. 
"It's depressing," she said Wednesday as the government released its findings. 
The study, based on interviews with 9,965 teen-agers, found that kids whose friends smoke were far more likely to become smokers than those who hung out with non-smokers -3 percent in the non-smoklng crowd versus 50 percent for those with smoking friends. 
And older brothers and sisters were more likely to be a bad influence than parents. "Thirty percent of adolescents reported currently smoking in homes where only older siblings smoked, compared with 15 percent of teen-agers f,rom homes where only their parents smoked," the study said. 
Experimental smoking has risks, the study said. People who tried it as teen-agers were 16 times more likely to wind up as smokers when they became adults. 
"Even with the vast body of information now available re­garding the adverse effects of cigarette smoking and recent efforts to encourage smokers to quit and young people not to start, smoking continues to ap­
------------------------------~----­
peal to millions of teen-agers," the study said. "In fact, teen­agers are beginning to smoke at younger ages, with the age of initiation decreasing especially among girls." 
Some of them have nice things to say about smoking: That it helps them relax, that it keeps them from getting fat. And they think smoking for a year or two will do no harm, according to the study. 
The center, which is part of the Public Health Service, esti­mates that some 3. 7 million teen-agers smoke but that 92 percent of them say they don't plan to be smoking in another year. Only about 1.5 percent of them manage to quit, Moss said. 
"Teen-agers greatly under­estimate th~ addictiveness of tobacco and greatly overesti­mate their ability to control it," Health and Human Services Secretary Louis Sullivan said in a statement. 
Overall, the prevalence of teen-age smoking declined dur­ing the 1970s and was stable through the 1980s, said the re­port. The interviews for the study were conducted in 1989. 


~ 
------.:---~-~~---------~-----­

page 6 The Observer Thursday, December 3, 1992 
Khmer Rouge troops h.old U.N. peacekeepers 



PHNOM PENH, Cambodia (AP) ,_.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIII-'I nomic sanctions on the Khmer 
-Khmer Rouge guerrillas refused Wednesday to release six unarmed U.N. peacekeep­ers, escalating tensions that threaten an accord on ending Cambodia's 13-year civil war. 
U.N. officials said a helicopter sent to look for the truce moni­tors was hit by gunfire, and a French officer on the craft suf­fered a back wound. 
"This is very unfortunate and very surprising," U.N. spokesman Eric Fait said. "Certainly the eyes of the world, the international community, are going to be looking at this episode very carefully. I'm sure (the Khmer Rouge) understands that it will have repercussions." 
In another development, Fait said six U.N. police were wounded Wednesday when their vehicles ran over newly laid anti-tank mines on a road near Siem Reap, 140 miles northwest of Phnom Penh. He said Khmer Rouge and gov-
Food relief cut off as battle rages in Bosnia 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­
. govina (AP) -No food relief reached Sarajevo on Wednes­day as fighting raged in the city's outskirts, and Bosnian defenders battled what they said was one of the heaviest Serb tank offensives. Outside the capital near the Croatian-held town of Kiseljak, a Danish U.N. peacekeeper was reported kidnapped by uni­formed men. The Dane, a corporal whose name was not released, was seen in the back of a car ac­companied by two identified men wearing combat fatigues, said Sgt. Antonio de Frutos, a spokesman for the peacekeep­ers. The car failed to stop when flagged down, he said. The worst fighting was in Otes, a suburb north of the air­port, where government forces have been under attack for three days from Serb artillery, tanks and mortars. Bosnian officers claim Serbs used a Nov. 12 cease-fire, which has since collapsed, to move at least 10 tanks into po­sition to attack Otes from three sides. They said the Serb strat­egy was to forge a link between Ilidza to the west of Sarajevo and Rajlovac to the northwest. About 6,000 people live in Otes, many of them refugees. Evacuation is difficult because of sniper fire and a shortage of cars. Among the residents holed up in a dark basement Wednesday were Habiba Hrgonja and her 3-year-old son, Ersan, whose thigh was injured Tuesday as 
HousEs 
The Observer 
FOR RENT 
News D~part~~nt
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
93-94 4 & 5-6 Bedrooms Fully Furnished 
Business Editor 
Security Systems 
Assistant News Editor
Washers/Dryers 
Copy Editor 
287-4989 
If interested, submit a one-page personal statement 
Listed with off­
and resume to David Kinney by Thurs. Dec. 3. 
campus housing 
Questions, call The Observer at 239-5303. 

ernment troops both operate in the area, so it was unclear who laid the mines. 
The U.N. Security Council voted Monday to impose eco­
the family tried to flee the town. 
"Do you love me? Do you love me?" the little boy cried repeatedly to his mother as he lay naked under a blanket. 
The Bosnians reported 14 dead -nine troops and five civilians and dozens wounded in Wednesday's fighting. They were unsure of Serb casualties. 
More than 17,000 people have been killed and 110.000 wounded in a civil war that be­gan after Bosnia's Croat and Muslim majority voted for in­dependence in February, ac­cording to the Bosnian Health Ministry. 
Houge for refusing to disarm under terms of the peace ac­eord they signed a year ago with Cambodia's government and two other rebel groups. 
The Khmer Houge also have refused to give U.N. monitors unrestricted access to the 10 percent to 20 percent of the countryside they control, and its leaders are boycotting the U.N. effort to organize democratic elections in May. 
Further undermining the U.N. mission is a surge of political violence in the past month aimed at opposition politicians and their families. Many people blame the government, which denies responsibility. 
But the main fear is that the civil war could erupt again be­cause of the worsening rela­tions between the Khmer Rouge and .the 22,000 U.N. peacekeepers and officials sent to carry out the peace accord. 
Khmer Rouge leaders accuse 
Senate votes to indict Collar 

BRASILIA, Brazil (AP) -The Senate voted Wednesday to in­dict suspended President Fer­nando Collor de Mello, paving the way for a trial that could lead to his permanent ouster. 
On a 67-3 vote, the Senate approved a report accusing Collor of gross corruption. Eleven senators did not appear for the vote. 
The Chamber of Deputies impeached Collor on Sept. 29 and suspended him from office for six months after a probe showed he took more than $6.5 million from an illegal slush fund run by Paulo Gesar Farias, his 1989 campaign treasurer. 
The Senate will rule on Dec. 22 on whether to remove Collor from office permanently for the constitutional crime of "lack of decorum" stemming from his alleged links to the kickback scandal. 
If 54 of Brazil's 81 senators find Collor guilty, he will be of­ficially removed from the presidency and barred from holding public office for eight 
/ 

··.  Prep Plus'"  
·.  For the MCAT:  
The Best  

Medical Insurance 
No one can guarantee your acceptance to medical schooL But we can guarantee that you'll score your highest on the MCAT Our unique Test Your Bestr"' guarantee is your insurance policy. If you're not completely satisfied with your MCAT score, we'll let you repeat the entire course. . at no charge' 
We offer expert live instruction, innovative home study matenals, unlimited review in our TEST-N-TAPE,. labs and lots of personal attention. That's why Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared more test takers, and produced more top MCAT scores, than everyone else combined' 
! Sll\NLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
REGISTRATION FOR THE MCAT CLASS IS: November 30 to December 15 
PHONE: 272-4135 Today! 
the U.N. mission of working with Vietnam, whose army ousted the Khmer Rouge in 1 979 after a bloody reign that tried to turn Cambodia into an agrarian commune. The Khmer Houge have allegedly fired on at least a dozen U.N. helicopters recently, but no U.N. soldiers have been killed. 
The detained peacekeepers ­three Britons, two Filipinos and a New Zealander -were seized Tuesday at a Khmer Rouge checkpoint on the Stoeng Sen Hiver in central Cambodia while monitoring troop movements from a boat, Fait said. 
He said negotiations had failed to win ,their release. He declined to give details of the talks, other than to say the Khmer Rouge had accused the 
U.N. soldiers of spying. 

The peacekeepers were being held near Kompong Thorn, 85 miles north of Phnom Penh. 
years. The vote is expected to pass. 
Collor, who took office in 1990 as Brazil's first freely elected leader since 1960, has denied any ties to Farias, who is accused of extorting millions of dollars from businessmen in return for government favors and contracts. 
Collor, who was replaced by Vice President Hamar Franco, also faces criminal charges of corruption and criminal asso­ciation, crimes punishable by up to eight years in prison. 
Wednesday's vote was harshly criticized by Collor's supporters. 
"The vote was a great farce," said Sen. Lucidio Portella of the conservative Social Democracy Party. "It was purely political." 
Collor's lawyers have asked the Supreme Court to delay the Dec. 22 vote on grounds that 29 senators are biased against Collor because they took part in the three-month probe. 
No date has been set for the Supreme Court's decision. 
Thursday, December 3, 1992 The Observer 
page 7 

Clinton to open inaugural festivities with trademark bus trip 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent-elect Clinton will start his inaugural celebration with a trademark bus trip and end it with a White House open house, mixing invitation-only affairs with lots of free events for ordinary Americans, organizers said Wednesday. 
Clinton wants "an open in­augural, an accessible inaugu­ral and a dignified inaugural," said Democratic National Committee Chairman Ronald Brown, who also chairs the Presidential Inaugural Commit­tee. 
"It very much reflects the kind of campaign that Bill Clinton and AI Gore ran." 
The five days of festivities ­running Jan. 17 to 21 -will cost less than $20 million, paid for by private contributions and sales of tickets and souvenirs, Brown said. 
There will be at least eight free events, including a concert and fireworks at the Lincoln Memorial, an outdoor festival nearby on the Capital mall, as well as several events aimed at young people. 
At a Jan. 18 "American Gala" that is open to the public, the price of admission will be a donation of food or clothing to the homeless. 
Clinton will cap Inauguration Day, Jan. 20, with 10 invitation­only, black-tie balls for about 65,000 people. Tickets will sell for $125. 
But Brown said the bus trip on Jan. 17 -not the balls -will 
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA 
JOSEPHINE HAYNES, et al., Plaintiffs.  )  
v  )  No. PCA 89-30093-RV  
SHONEY'S, INC., et al., Defendants.  )  

NOTICE OF PROPOSED CLASS ACTION SETTLEMENT AND CONSENT DECREE 
TO: BLACK PERSONS WHO ( 1) UNSUCCESSFULLY APPLIED FOR EMPLOYMENT, (2) WOULD HAVE APPLIED FOR EMPLOYMENT BUT FOR THEIR BELIEFS OF RACIALLY BIASED HIRING PRACTICES AGAINST ·BLACK PERSONS, OR (3) ARE CURRENTLY OR HAVE BEEN EMPLOYED AT SHONEY'S, INC.'S CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS IN NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE OR ANY SHONEY'S, CAPTAIN D'S, LEE'S FAMOUS RECIPE, FIFTH QUARTER, OR PARGO'S RESTAURANTS OWNED AND OPERATED BY SHONEY'S, INC. 
Shoney's, Inc. and Raymond L. Danner have agreed to settle an employment discrimination cl,ass action lawsuit now pending in the Umted States D1stnct Court 1n Pensacola, Flonda. The lawswt cla1med that Shoney s, l,nc. and, Raymond L. Danner discnm1nated aga1nst black applicants for employment and black employees at Shoney s, Inc. s Corporate Headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee and at Shoney's, Captain D's, Lee's Famous Recipe, Fifth Quarter, or Parga's Restaurants owned and operated by Shoney's, Inc. 
THE PURPOSE OF THIS NOTICE IS TO ADVISE: 
• 
OF THE STATUS OF THE LAWSUIT, INCLUDING A STATEMENT OF YOUR RIGHTS WITH RESPECT TO A PROPOSED SETTLEMENT OF THE CASE 

• 
IF YOU HAVE A POTENTIAL CLAIM AS AN APPLICANT, THE REQUIREMENT THAT YOU MUST MAIL A REQUEST FOR CLAIM FORM 

• 
IF YOU ARE A CURRENT OR FORMER EMPLOYEE, YOU MAY MAIL A REQUEST FOR CLAIM FORM IN ORDER TO ASSURE THAT THERE IS A RECORD OF YOUR CORRECT CURRENT ADDRESS 

• 
OF THE OPPORTUNITY TO FILE WITH THE COURT AN OBJECTION TO THE SETTLEMENT 


1. The Affected Classes. The following persons may be entitled to receive benefits, including a monetary award, 
established in the proposed settlement: All black persons who unsuccessfully applied for employment at any time between February 4, 1985 and November 3, 1992 at Shoney's, Inc.'s Corporate Headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee or at any restaurant owned and operated by Shoney's, Inc. (Applicants); All black persons who are current or former employees at Shoney's, Inc.'s corporate headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee or at any restaurant owned and operated by Shoney's, Inc. and who were employed in one or more of those restaurants between February 4, 1985 and November 3, 1992 (Current or Former Employees); and All black persons who would have applied for employment at any time between February 4, 1985 and November 3, 1992 at Shoney's, Inc.'s corporate headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee or at any restaurant owned and operated by Shoney's, Inc. but failed to apply because of their belief that Shoney's, Inc. engaged in racially biased hiring practices against black persons (Constructive Applicants). 
2. 
Terms of Proposed Settlement. Subject to Court approval, the plaintiffs and defendants have agreed to the entry of a Decree by the Court that establishes certain hiring goals, a settlement fund and certain injunctive relief agreed to in order to satisfy claims of the plaintiffs and class members and to pay attorneys' fees, costs, and other exl)enses of litigation and settlement. This relief will be in final settlement of all claims by the plaintiffs and class members aga~nst Shoney's, Inc. and Raymond L. Danner for claims of employment discrimination and/or retaliation because of race that were raised or could have been raised in this case. 

3. 
The Settlement Fund. The proposed Decree requires Shoney's, Inc. to establish a Settlement Fund in the amount of $105,000,000.00 for payments to qualified claimants and for payment of some expenses that Will be incurred 1n the settlement and claims process, not including attorneys' fees. Pursuant to the Decree, Shoney's, Inc. also has agreed to.~ay Class Counsel's attorneys fees, costs and expenses. The Settlement Fund will be used to pay monetary awards to qual1f1ed class members who comply with the claims procedure required by the Court. The exact amount of funds to be pa1d from the Settlement Fund for which a claimant might be eligible will be determined by the claims procedure, eligibility requirements and other limitations set forth in the Decree. Payments to qualified claimants will be made over a specified period of time as required by the Decree. Constructive Applicants will generally receive the benefits of the equitable hiring goals established by the Decree but will not be eligible to receive a monetary award from the Settlement Fund. 

4. 
Claims Procedure for Applicants. If you are a member of the Applicant class mentioned above and want to be eligible for participation in the settlement, you must submit a written Request for Claim Form; a sample is printed at the bottom of this notice. THE REQUEST FOR CLAIM FORM MUST BE SENT TO THE COURT CLERK'S OFFICE AT THE ADDRESS SHOWN BELOW AND MUST BE POSTMARKED NO LATER THAN January 11, 1993. If the proposed Decree is given final approval by the Court, you will be sent a specific .Claim Form only if you llave previously sent a R~quest for Cfaim. Form stating that you may want to file a claim. Each cla1mant must complete and return the Cla1m Form 1n accordance w1th the instructions on the Claim Form. PLEASE NOTE THAT SENDING A REQUEST FOR CLAIM FORM OR RETURNING THE ACTUAL CLAIM FORM DOES NOT GUARANTEE YOUR PARTICIPATION IN THE SETTLEMENT FUND. 

5. 
Claims Procedure for Current or Former Employees. If you are a member of the Current or Former Employee Class, you may file a Request for Claim Form to assure that there is a record of your current address. Shoney's, Inc. will be mailing claim forms to all Current or Former Employees•for whom Shoney's, Inc. has a valid, current address. Shoney's, Inc.'s records, however, may not contain a correct address. It is your responsibility to assure that Class Counsel has your correct address. 

6. 
Other Affirmative Relief. The proposed Decree also establishes goals for hiring Black persons in certain positions with Shoney's. Inc., implementation of an internal complaint procedure, training and educational programs, as well as other obligations. 


1. Binding Effect. The proposed Decree, if finally approved by the Court, will be binding on all class members and will bar any person who is a member of the classes from seeking relief other than that provided for in the Decree from Shoney's, Inc. or Danner for claims of employment discrimination and/or retaliation because of race. Class members will not be allowed to exclude themselves from the tenns of the Decree. 
8. 
Objections to the Consent Decree. If you believe that the proposed Decree should not be finally approved for any reason, you may present your objection at a hearing on January 25, 1993, at 1:00 p.m. at the United States District Court, United States Courthouse, 100 North Palafox Street, Pensacola, Florida. Any member of the settlement classes who wants to object to the proposed Decree must file an objection and appear at the hearing. The objections must be filed in writing with the United States District Court Clerk's Office, with service of copies upon Class Counsel and for the defendants, on or before January 11, 1993. Any attorney who will represent an individual objecting to the Decree must file a notice of appearance with the Court and serve counsel for all parties on or before the same date. 

9. 
Clerk's Address. The Clerk's address is: Office of the Clerk, United States District Court, Northern District of Florida, United States Courthouse, 100 North Palafox Street, Pensacola, Florida 32501. All Request for Claim Forms or other correspondence must state the name and number of the case, Haynes v. Shoney's Inc., No. PCA 89-30093-RV. 

10. 
Class Counsel/Further Information. If you change your address after sending in the Request for Claim Form, it is your obligation to inform Class Counsel in writing. Failure to report a change of address may result in a qualified claimant being barred from receiving the benefits of the settlement. If you have any questions about the Decree, you may call or wnte the offices of Class Counsel at the following addresses or call the toll free number listed below: 


Thomas A. Warren Barry L. Goldstein 501 East Tennessee Street I Suite D Saperstein, Mayeda, Larkin & 
P.O. Drawer 1657 Goldstein Tallahassee, Florida 32302 1300 Clay Street/11th Floor Tel. 1-800-950-1556 Oakland, California 94612 
They or ·someone from their office will talk to you free of charge. YOU MAY OBTAIN A COPY OF THE DECREE AT YOUR EXPENSE. TO OBTAIN A COPY, YOU MUST CONTACT THE OFFICE OF THE U.S. DISTRICT COURT CLERK AT THE ADDRESS SET FORTH ABOVE. 
11. Address of Defense Counsel. For purposes of serving copies of any objections, the address for service on counsel for the Defendants is: James G. Ramsey, Farris, Warfield & Kanaday, Suite 1900, Third National Financial Center, Nashville, TN 37219 
If the Settlement is not approved by the Court, no money will be paid and the case will proceed to trial. However, there is no assurance that any later decision would be in favor of class members, and if it were, that it would be as favorable to the class members as this settlement. 
Dated this 24th day of November, 1992. Clerk of Court, United States District Court, Northern District of Florida, Pensacola Division 
Haynes v. Shoney's, Inc. -PCA-89-30093-RV (N.D. Fla.) REQUEST FOR CLAIM FORM 
NAME (Last) (First) (Middle Initial) 
PRESENT ADDRESS 
HOME PHONE (Include ArM Coclo) 
MAIJ...Tit 
Ofllce of the Cieri< United Stataa Dlatrlct Court Northern Dletrlct of Floridll United Stataa Courthou" 
100 North Pelefox S­Penucole, Floridll 32501 
City State Zip Code 
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER TO RECEIVE A CLAIM FORM(S), CHECK THE BOX(ES) WHICH APPLY: 
APPLICANT:  0  
CURRENT EMPLOYEE:  0  
FORMER EMPLOYEE:  0  

Signature 

set the tone. 
The ride will begin at Thomas Jefferson's Virginia home, Monticello, and be a mini­version of Clinton's campaign bus tours, complete with stops along the way and a well­publicized route so crowds can gather by the roadside. 
The decision to begin the festivities outside the capital was designed to show the inau­gural is not just a Washington insiders' affair, committee members said. 
"It is not just meant to signify what touched the American people during the course _of the campaign but to really touch American history and the fact that it is more than just what happens in Washington but how we bring our nation and our people together," said Brown. 
When Clinton arrives in Washington, he will go to the Lincoln Memorial for a public concert and fireworks. 

Bush to reach 1,OOOth Point of Light on New Year's Eve 
WASHINGTON (AP) -In the 
twilight of his presidency, Ge­
orge Bush's schedule has been 
shorn of all but a handful of du­
ties. But the White House still 
puts out one announcement 
without fail: Bush's daily Point 
of Light. 
Bush will honor his 1,OOOth 
Point of Light on New Year's 
Eve, thus fulfilling what began 
as a rhetorical flourish in his 
1988 convention speech and 
became a signature program to 
acknowledge community ser­
vice. 
C. Gregg Petersmeyer, who has shepherded the project from the beginning, once har­bored visions of all 1 ,000 points marching down Pennsylvania Avenue in Bush's second inau­
. gural parade. 
Now Petersmeyer -and 
presumably the program -will 
exit office with Bush in 
January. 
Those singled out for White House recognition have ranged from a Houston girl who spends lunch hours with disabled schoolmates to a volunteer ambulance squad in Brooklyn's Bedford-Stuyvesant to Doris Tate, mother of murdered actress Sharon Tate and an advocate for victim's rights. 
Wednesday's Point of Light ­the 971st -lauded volunteers of the Edgehill Community Center of Nashville, Tenn., for 

Where Big Mountain Skiing Just Got Bigger! Snowshoe has Expanded to Include the Silver Creek Ski Area Giving You More Runs ... More Fun . . . For Your Money! 
Students . .. Snowshoe's Winter Break Ski Package* gives you deep discounts on Lodging, skiing, group lessons, a "Welcome Aboard" bash along with many other 'Perks'! With savings up to 35%, this bJeak is sure to fit your budget. 
January 3 thru 9, 1993 
This Semester Join Us for the East's Most Popular Winter Break! 
Reservations: (304) 572-5252 • Snow Report: (304) 572-4636 
•valid Student ID Required For Package Benefits 
their efforts to make inner-city 
Nashville "a decent, drug-free 
and safe place to live." 
A wall of Petersmeyer's office is filled with cartoons with a point-of-light leitmotif. Many are sardonic, like one depicting a hobos' village of cardboard shacks, each burning a lonely candle. 
Petersmeyer views them all as evidence that Bush's message -government alone cannot solve the country's social ills ­has taken hold. 
At first, there was some ridicule. But more recently, he says, "I have not met one per­son who has found Points of Light amusing or silly." 
That means he hasn't met Garry Trudeau, whose "Doonesbury" comic strip has lampooned the program peri­odically. But Petersmeyer, like the program itself, looks on the bright side of things. 
"This relentless storytelling, a parable a day, has been a very powerful communications device," he said. 
Petersmeyer faced bureau­cratic resistance at the outset. There were fears the White House might end up honoring a secret child-molester. But the points have been largely scan­dal-free. And no one has ac­cused the White House Office of National Service of favoring Republican do-gooders. 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, December 3, 1992 
The Observer 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Momca Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard R1ley 
News Editor......................Dav1d Kmney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor.................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kev1n Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blas1 Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harngan Systems Manager.............. Patnck Barth Photo Editor........... Marguente Schropp OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor Anna Mane Tabor Controller........................Dav1d Beliveau 
The Observer is the mdependent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of e1ther mst1tut10n The news IS reported as accurately and obJectively as poss1ble. Unsigned editorials represent the op1nion of the majority of the Ed1tor-in-Chief, Managmg Editor, News Ed1tor, Viewpomt Editor, Accent Ed1tor, Photo Ed1tor, Sports Ed1tor, and Samt Mary's Editor. Commentanes, letters and lns1de Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessanly those of The Observer. V1ewpomt space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Sa1nt Mary's community and to all readers The free expression of varymg op1mons through letters IS encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

{~),fll~~ 
'IJ1l',Z'I....L,,,~ 
tJ.~· 
Media assault family values 

Dear Editor: 
tacks upon traditional values 
are waged and glorified. Extra­
I assume that most people marital sex is now firmly ce­have been watching Cheers the mented into our mainstream last few weeks and know that culture, an unthinkable occur­Lilith has walked out on Frazier rence 20 years ago. And we and Frederick. Frazier was not wonder where our high num­abusive, an alcoholic or a dead­bers of teenage pregnancies, beat, and yet she coldly aban­AIDS cases and abortions come doned him and their son in from. search of her own self-interest In many shows, particularly and gratification. If Frazier had The Simpsons, disobedience, done this, he would have been a disrespect and underachieve­
what the feminist movement is

"dead-beat Dad," but here it is ment are praised. Therein lies 
all about, wrecking traditional

portrayed as some kind of the origin of many of the prob­
values and families? I guess

triumph of the feminist move­lems facing our schools and our 
Nora is Lilith's role model. 

ment. competitive future. Violence 
Last May, when Dan Quayle

While Frazier is contemplat­also is rampant and not sur­
attacked Murphy Brown for its

ing suicide on the ledge, Lilith prisingly crime has skyrock­
glamorous portrayal of single­
shouts to the crowd, "Surely, eted. 
motherhood as "another life­

some of you women must un­The mainstream media con­
style choice" for today's liber­

derstand (what I'm doing)" and tinually assaults the basic fam­
ated women, he was naturally

she's answered with raucous ily values that made this coun­
mocked by the media elite and

cheers. She should have receive try great and then blames our 
the mainstream liberal estab­

a chorus of boos. This is yet problems on Reaganomics and 
lishment.

another example of the low racism. I counter that many of 
This did not detract from

esteem given traditional values our social problems would be 
what he was really saying,

by the mainstream media. repaired by instead restoring
however: that American society, 

The origins of the the moral fabric of America. 
especially its foundation, the

Lilith!Frazier saga go back to This will be unspeakably diffi­
family, is in decline, and it

late 19th century Norway and cult as long as pop culture 
doesn't help that many reasons

the play A Doll's House by upholds so many negative at­
for and examples of that decline 

Henrik Ibsen, the worst piece of tributes and abandoning your 
are being exalted in our

literature I was ever forced to husband and child is displayed
mainstream culture. 

read in high school. Nora and as a victory of the women's lib­
Television is the most power­
Torvald are happily married, eration struggle. 
ful communications medium

but then one Christmas, Nora Stalin believed that if he con­
ever invented, and its impact,

finds some "courage" and trolled Hollywood, he could con­
along with that from music and

decides to leave Torvald and trol the world. The content of 
the movies, upon our society is 

their three children. This inci­television shows and movies is 
immense. Therefore what is

dent is continually referred to so vital. We cannot continue to 
seen and heard by our citizenry,

as "the most amazing thing." have immoral, irresponsible
particularly our youth, is

I was shocked and horrified messages revered on television 
significant in shaping our fu­

~hen I read this in 11th grade. and in movies; otherwise our 
ture.

How could the abandonment of society could be headed for an 
This is what Pat Buchanan
your duty and family be glori­irreversible disaster. 
has termed "the cultural war":

fied and promoted as "an Cheers is yet another example 
the battle for the hearts and

amazing thing"? Instead, it of this frightening and un­
minds of America. Judging by

should be flouted as an example derappreciated problem. Yet 
the content of most TV shows
of bad, socially destructive they still laugh at Dan Quayle. 
and movies, the liberals are

behavior. What's going to hap­Jeffrey O'Donnell 
winning.

pen to those children now that Grace Hall 
On nearly every feature, at-

they have no mother? Is this Nov. 30, 1992 
DOONESBURY 


= :r ~= =· 
:: ~~ ;~ := 
. :: 
: ::
. :· 
. ·: 
'• .~. 
. :· :· .· 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
HI, JOAN/&. 
6H?Hec:AU­
Y&F 
\ 
\ 
APPARCJVll.Y,
AFRA.If} NOT. 

toa/& Ht6AV&ONb
t\KJP&. ICAN'TUN/?13R­

Ff!JM H&CFAN
01/) '!OUt 5TANPIT. 

AccaJNT­/NT!31<VItw.
t-YNN? 

\ IN6? I 
\ I
I 

'There is a land of the living and a land of the dead and the only bridge is love, the only survival, the only meaning.' 
Thornton Wilder 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 
Viewpoint

Thursday, December 3, 1992 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Women's physical, chemical Students rank on lowest rung 
Dear Editor: we are now allowed to park in was extremely rude-he had let
makeup precludes combat 
the more spacious ACC lot. (Tip a student on a minute before, 
Dear Editor: testosterone, found in mass Living off-campus this year for future off-campus students: but I suppose I didn't grovel as 
I am writing in response to a quantities in males and very has allowed me to see the lad­don't buy a C1 sticker-just is necessary. As for what I presidential commission deci­small amounts in females. der of priorities at Notre Dame, park in the closer visiting should do, he told me to park in sion to keep women out of Tests have been done, and and clearly we students sit spots.) D6. Lost on him was the con­combat roles. This decision was results published in the book, squarely on the lowest rung. Yet I can rest easy in knowing cept that I didn't have a sticker based on the differences that The Male Hormone by Paul de People say that the illogical bu­that I can park anywhere in C1. for D6. exist between men and women Fruif. These experiments show reaucracy inherent in facets of That is, except on football We tried at the other gate, in physical and chemical make­the result of injecting boys, who our administration such as weekends. It wouldn't make thinking maybe he was just 
up. I believe that these differ­hadn't matured normally. They "security" will prepare us for any sense if we, mere students, having a bad day. because this ences exist, and therefore agree acted infantile a 1 had low en­the real world, where we will could park in the lot we paid for had never happened before! but with the decision. ergy outputs even though they wait in long lines and be subject a space in on a football Satur­we were greeted by an army Many facts support this the­had passed through puberty. to arbitrary laws. day. One friend (l don't know sergeant (whose salary is no ory of the male body being bet­Once injected with testosterone, Yet I argue that there is an what she was thinking) was doubt supported by student ter suited for combat than a the boys wanted to play and essential difference between going on a school-sponsored parking fines) who decided my female body. fight with their classmates. the two: namely, that the real weekend trip on a bus leaving friend's backpack and huge, The first difference is size. Many women think that if world doesn't make any pre­from campus, and she lives off. leaden duffle bag weren't ex­According to The World Book they are above average in phys­tensions that it's a Catholic, Needing to get to campus she cessive and that she could walk Encyclopedia, the average male ical achievements when com­cozy community with its citi­parked in her assigned lot on from Main Circle with it. I'm so measures 5'10" in height and pared to most females, and are zens' best interests in mind. Friday afternoon. only to come glad she did. too. God forbid weighs 150 pounds. The aver­even stronger than some males, I am so glad that I was given back Sunday night to find that one more car on campus for ten age female measures 5'4" and why should they not be allowed a chance to purchase a C1 her car had been towed! minutes; who knows what could weighs 127 pounds. to serve in combat? parking sticker at the beginning All you students in South happen! Anarchy!! A snowball 
The average female has twice The answer is because we do of the year for $47. Never mind Quad who trek over to D2 in fight!!! as much body fat, by percent­not have the draft anymore. If the fact that it's 19 degrees order to reach your car, while I view my parking fines and age, as the average male. This the draft was still in action, I windchill and that all of the D6 sits barely half full-you all the insane fees and over­size difference seems to be would welcome these women to visitor lots I pass on my way to know the real reason why you priced pop and books I have crucial. The larger the individ­serve instead of the average my first class stand empty-! can't park within a mile of bought in the last 3 1/2 years as ual, with more mass directed men chosen. That is if they WANT to park in the ACC where you live, don't you? It's my future contributions to this towards muscle rather than fat, were physically superior to parking lot! not because the administration university. I know that we are the stronger and more resilient these men. We do not have the I savor that bone chilling 2 is concerned about dangerous only here for four years and the individual. draft. Many strong and fit men mile hike to class when I have a crowding in that lot (C1 is proof that in the greater scheme of 
Nature reflects this perfectly. join the military every year. bad cold-or better yet--when I of that). Look instead to the ND we enjoy but a brief mo­The biggest and strongest ani­If a war broke out, and com­have to blaze through a tornado large expanse of green across ment of glory, but maybe cer­mal is the one who survives; bat was needed, these men in my good suit for a key inter­the road. Now where are those tain arms of the administration this would be the male. would go. There would be so view at the library. A bonus! visiting often socially prominent (namely security) could make a Critics argue that many fe­many to choose from, that And as I walk through the golfers going to park, I ask you? tiny effort to make our lives males can lift more weight, run many would not be sent to fight overcrowded lot by Senior Bar! They're not going to park in D2. easier, and hey, more afford­farther distances, and run immediately. They would be I remind myself of how kind it No, I am not obsessed with able. It wouldn't have to even faster than many males. This stationed in the States, and wait is of our administration to make parking issues; rather, I feel be sincere-placating us in the 
statement is true, but when to serve. There would be no more parking space for the they are symptomatic of larger short term might bring long making a comparison, things need for these women who record number of off-campus problems with this university as term benefits. After all, we're which are equal must be com­want to serve because they students this year. a whole. I drove a friend who students only four years but pared. If the athletically gifted would not be physically equal to All of the students who have lives in Lyons home from the alumni for life. 
athletes are compared, males the men. been fortunate to have been airport today and was unable to dominate in all areas. These This is not being sexist, but ticketed even in their very own drive on campus to drop her Elizabeth Vida 
records include tests of based on physical and chemical lot (for not parking in official off. Off-campus strength, speed (in water and body make-up. Women would spaces) must be unaware that The man at the gate at Stepan Nov. 30, 1992 on land), and endurance. still be able to serve in the mili­
National ROTC recognize and tary, but not in combat. I think adhere to the physical differ­Army Captain Mary Finch, a ences between men and helicopter pilot said, "Allowing women. Both sexes must per­women to serve their country in form physical requirements, but the best possible capacity the figures vary. Males must [meaning the exclusion of com­run faster, and perform more bat roles] is in no way degrad­sit-ups and push-ups than ing to women." females in the same time E. Johnson allotment. Why the difference? Dillon Hall 
The answer is the hormone Nov. 20, 1992 
Use dialogue to find truth in issues such as homosexuality 
Dear Editor: If church teaching was not cording to those canons, this article in which he suggested church that considers them · · ~· 
Lest I too be judged as com­enhanced by the contribution of document is not a mandate but that "by calling on conscien­"objectively disordered." I have pliant by silence, I feel I must the faithful we would still be is a document intended as an tious persons to engage in di­met many people who are bio­respond to Paul Fisher's recent taught that the world is flat and informal aid to bishops looking rect discrimination, the C.D.F. logically open to procreation letter to the editor. I would that the sun revolved around for some assistance in dealing has rewritten the rules of moral who are a greater threat to agree with Mr. Fisher that per­the Earth in spite of our scien-with problems of legislation." theology." Tuohey suggests, and family values. As Christians we sonal attacks on his character tific knowledge and actual hu-The Archbishop continued by I firmly agree, that the church are indeed compelled to reflect are unwarranted and unneces­man experience. After 350 stating: "My policy and the pol-does not give adequate proof theologically on our human sary based on his two page paid years the Church repealed its icy of the archdiocese will con-that there is proportionate evil condition, employing every commentary reminding us of condemnation of Galileo as con-tinue to be what it has been: to to suggest that anyone should possible avenue to find the the official church teaching on trary to official church teaching, affirm and defend the human choose to discriminate, a clearly truth, and to examine it in light homosexuality. based on reality not conjecture. and civil rights of gay and les-defined moral evil. of the Gospel call to love. 
While I disagree with Mr. Furthermore, I must speak to bian persons; to oppose unjust The Congregation for the doc-If we do not continue to em­Fisher on areas of this issue, I the issue of discrimination or arbitrary discrimination in trine of the Faith and Mr. Fisher ploy dialogue, to continue to admire his obvious love of the against homosexuals as it was housing or employment; to af-suggest that homosexuality is a search for the truth, but rather church and his knowledge of its presented in the argument of firm and defend the church's threat to family values. After presume we have the very official teaching. Mr. Fisher. Indeed the Con-teaching on the marriage and two years of working with knowledge of the Divine, we will 
My intention is in no way an gregation for the Doctrine of the the family; to affirm and defend children and "families" in ignore the new creation attempt to refute official church Faith sent out a letter to several the church's teaching on the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of continually unfolding before our teaching, that is, the expressed United States Bishops, who distinction between sexual ori-Brooklyn, I can testify to the eyes. Furthermore, if we do not teaching of the hierarchical apparently asked for such entation and behavior, but fact that homosexuals were not deal with the pervasive magisterium, but rather, like guidelines concerning the issue especially, always, to remember responsible for the breakdown homophobia that infects our Mr. Fisher, to exercise my right of anti-discrimination laws in that 'there are three things that of family values in the inner society and church, a grave and as a baptized Christian to this country. last; faith, hope, and charity. city. Violence, drugs, abuse, obvious occasion of sin, we will contribute to the sensus fi­While Mr. Fisher places these And the greatest of these is hatred, racism, sexism, and not see justice in our day. delium or the sense of the guidelines as equal to the 1986 charity.' (1 Cor. 13)." poverty are a few of the real Finally, I suggest to Mr. Fisher faithful, an equally valuable document, they are not of simi-When I read said guidelines in culprits. that he reconsider the sign and tradition within Roman lar doctrinal importance. the newspaper I found myself But one would have to do symbol of the crucifixes that Catholicism. Archbishop Quinn of San ashamed and confused that more than simply drive through hang throughout the campus. I 
My point in this area is sim­Francisco expressed this dis-official church teaching would the inner city to experience believe the crucified Christ is ple: if the faithful do not con­tinction in person to myself and suggest deliberate discrimina-these things; one would have to evidence of the economy of our tinue to contribute to the dia­other Religious at Moreau tion, a moral evil as defined by enter homes of people salvation, of the loving God who logue concerning issues of doc­Seminary as well as in a homily the church, as an encouraged throughout the country to come entered our history as a human, trine, the faithful are not living published in the Aug. 20, 1992 option for the faithful. to a true understanding of what who suffered and died to pay up to their Baptismal commit­issue of Origens. Soon after the public disclo-has happened to family values. the price for our salvation. It is ment. For Mr. Fisher to suggest Archbishop Quinn stated: sure of these suggested guide-Similarly one would have to not the Church, but the Cross of that questions are moot based "...the recent Vatican document lines Father John Tuohey, a speak to gay people to know Jesus that is our only hope! on official church teaching is, as falls under the canons of moral theologian of the Catholic their experiences, their hopes Walter E. Jenkins, C.S.C. well, limiting, even ignoring, the interpretation approved and University of America (a Pontif-and fears, their pain and their Moreau Seminary tradition. •_-._-_-_._-_-;....-_-_·_~_2§t~~~.
used by the V~~~~-i~ej~~~~_!~~~!f..n1~e~6l..~~~~~~:.~l~~~~g~-~~_fl!!~.~·...~<?~~)~.~:•• · ...'.. 

.,..______ ___,__ _________,_________ 
page 10 Thursday, December 3, 1992 
Accent 
Aholiday story with atwist 
Planner-Siegfried Players bring pre-finals cheer with their Christmas production 
By JENNIFER GUERIN 
Assistant Accent Editor 
They've tackled mystery-master Agatha Christie's "Mousetrap," and "NUTS" by Tom Toper, which was brought to life on the big screen by Barbra Streisand a few years ago. Last year they took a different approach, performing a rendition of the timeless favorite, "A Christmas Carol." 
This weekend, the Planner-Siegfried Players will attempt to inject some pre­final holiday cheer into the campus veins with "The Importance of Being Uncle Roscoe," a modern comedy of errors that throws a monkey wrench into the traditional holiday stories. 
"It's not a typical Christmas story," said director Greg Ripple, "but it has a Christmas message behind it." 
The play revolves around Mindy Kendall, played by freshman Alex Mensch, a 12 year-old cynic whose youth is sadly tainted by an inability to anticipate things, even during the Christmas season. Transforming her character becomes the project of Dexter Holly, the conman with an altruistic edge who takes shelter in the Kendall household while dodging the police. 
Dexter happens to enter the household while its members are encountering a series of their own problems. Taking advantage of the unusual situation in which he finds himself, he pretends to be Uncle Roscoe, a long-lost relative whom Mindy's mother Mary Ann, played by sophomore Ann Lillie, has not seen in over ten years but was expecting for a holiday visit. Mary Ann's husband Carl Kendall, played by Senior Bert Koehler, returns from work one afternoon to announce he lost his job, and to meet 


'The Importance of Being Uncle Roscoe' will run December 3 through 5 at 8:10 p.m. in 
Washington Hall. 
"Uncle Roscoe," whom he has great suspicions about. 
Impersonating Roscoe proves to be relatively easy for the expert Dexter and his sidekick, Kenny, but as events unfold, the situation becomes more and more complex. The arrival of the real Uncle Roscoe is only one of the many subplots developed in the course of this short, comedy-packed play. 
"Dexter is a 'magical' person who pulls the family together," said producer Bert Koehler. The path the Kendall family and their companions take to reach happiness, however, is a long and unusual one, full of comical incidents, a certain degree of deception, and the 
Victoria's Real Secret has a unique sound and lively concerts 
By MEGHAN KING 
Accent Writer 
"Tell NO we're not gonna eat their green eggs and ham," says Steve Sostak, lead singer for Victoria's Real Secret(VRS). 
VRS is a band of five Notre Dame sophomores that has gained campus­wide recognition over the past year and a half due to its unique sound and lively performances. "We're not looking to do what other people want us to do." 

Sostak finds that some people misinterpret the aim of VRS. He says, "Most of the people who have fun when we play are the ones who are willing to look at it like that: fun. Most people who are intimidated are people who see us and think we're trying to be hard." 
Sostak believes that VRS offers "a positive release of frustration." Says the former bassist, "The biggest thing is release. I can find a way to release emotion through music. People should try it." According to Sostak, "A lot of people don't understand how to release emotions in a correct way." 
"The stage, jumping around-I'm not really like that," says the singer, ''I'm pretty laid-back and soft-spoken." 
Besides release, Sostak believes VRS offers a variety of music. "There's nice variety," says the vocalist, "You don't get the same thing song after song. You get different ideas, but the same basic excitement." 
The music reflects the varying personalities in the band. VRS, made up of Sostak, Chris Daly and Ryan Halford on guitars, Marty Mennes on drums, and Paul Phillips on bass "reaches out to a universal crowd," says the singer. "You get your typical Darners and then your punk crowd. We act as a medium between both." 
Sostak describes the group's music as "fast-paced, but not killer sound" and refers to the lyrics as "sarcastic seriousness." The lead singer and songwriter claims, "If you wanna sit down and listen to our stuff, there's substance." He calls the lyrics to "The Green Iguana," one of the band's originals, "a totally serious rip into the bitter life." 
Another one of the band's originals, "Fish," contains lyrics that seem funny on the surface, but are serious underneath. The lines, "Put your line in the waterffest your bait for worms/ Do you like my pole?/ Can your lure me in?" are about a "playing-with-your-mind­type person," says Sostak, but also "a person who got kicked out of NO because he couldn't afford it." 
Despite the fact that Sostak and Daly wrote "Fish" in one day, Sostak claims, "It is probably our best overall tune," and it will be featured on the campus CD due out in the spring. 
The band's original sound earned them 

undeniable power of the Christmas "spirit." 
Koehler emphasized the good timing of this play for the students on campus. "With finals coming up, you often lose sight of Christmas," he said. "This is the University's only Christmas play." 
Both Koehler and Ripple stressed the need for easing students into the holiday spirit. Ripple, a junior, expressed his opinion that "The Importance of Being Uncle Roscoe" promotes traditional Christmas themes in a non-traditional manner. "The bad guy here is actually a good guy," he explained. In the spirit of the holidays, Ripple continued, "the emphasis of this play is not on taking or getting, but on giving." 
Except for covering overhead costs and saving enough money to put on next year's production, the Planner-Siegfried Players will donate all proceeds from the performance to Dismas House, the group's charity of choice since their first production four years ago. 
The Dismas House, with which many Notre Dame groups have developed close connections, is a halfway house intended to provide a supportive environment for ex-prisoners beginning to readjust to society. 
Koehler, who is producing the play for the first time this year, emphasized the hectic lifestyle that comes with putting together a quality performance. "We have a challenge cut out for us, but we like challenges," he said. Behind-the­scenes work has turned out to involve a tremendous commitment on the part of the crew, who built, painted, and moved the set. "Essentially, our cast is our crew," he admitted. 
Auditions for "The Importance of Being Uncle Roscoe" were held in September, and rehearsals began at the end of that month. After October break, the group began meeting three times a week, and last Monday, they moved into Washington Hall. 
With the exception of a select few cast members, the Planner-Siegfried Players is comprised entirely of underclassmen, and all but Kathleen Campbell, a junior who portrays Mindy's sister Charlene, are non-theatre majors. Ripple stressed the group's desire to offer students who enjoy theatre but do not have the opportunity to work on productions on a regular basis, the ability to participate in this year's production. 
Tickets for "The Importance of Being Uncle Roscoe" are-$3 for students, $5 for 

VRS members (left to right) Ryan Halford, Chris Daly, Marty Mennes, Steve Sostak, and Will Freve's original song "Fish," will be featured on the campus CD due out this spring. 
the opening spot for the They Might Be Giants concert earlier this fall at Stepen Center. 
"It was definitely the height of everything so far. It was the rush," says the lead singer, who "honored the night with baldheadness" along with drummer, Mennes. "We played like 8 songs in 30 minutes. The whole thing was just playing in front of so many people," says Sostak. 
VRS also opened for Sea of Words in September, a local band trying to make it outside of campus. Says Sostak of Sea of Words, "The thing I like about bands like that is that they're supportive. They see some potential, I think." "We're going for it, definitely," says Sostak, ''I'm pretty sure everyone is serious about taking a couple of years off after we graduate and travelling." 
Sostak claims survival is the main goal of the group, "As long as we're surviving that's fine. I'm not looking to be a millionaire musician." 
VRS is determined to maintain their musical career. Says the singer, "We had a big meeting in my room and decided we were gonna practice really hard and work as waiters." 
Says Sostak, "We're in it for ourselves-to be good musicians for ourselves-and if that pleases other people, that's good. We're not gonna slow down. Hopefully the university will be supportive, and if they're not we're gonna have to work things out the hard way." 
Lately, VRS has been hibernating. "We're taking some time off to meditate and catch up on homework and act crazy," says the sophomore philosophy major. The group hopes to hit the road next semester and recently sent a 3­song, self-produced tape and a video of the They Might Be Giants show to several places in Chicago, Michigan, and Indiana. 

Accent

Thursday, December 3, 1992 page 11 
Dancing to the top 
Dedication and discipline bring Julie Showalter fame in the world of Irish dancing 
Madrigal Dinners recreate the Renaissance-era 
By MARY SCHULTZE AND AMY 
BENNETT 
Accent Writers 
While many students were able to relax over the Thanksgiving break, Saint Mary's junior Julie Showalter had a very exhausting weekend. Over break, Showalter qualified for the North American National Irish Dancing Championship and earned $500 toward her trip to the World Championships in Ireland. 
For the third year in a row, Showalter, a member of the Dennehy School of Irish Dance in Chicago, won the "Senior Ladies 18 & Over" division of the Oireachtas, the Mid-American Irish Dancing Championship held November 27-29 at the Wyndham Hotel in Itasca, Illinois. 
This solo competition involved three rounds. The first two rounds consist of dancers competing two at a time in the reel. a soft shoe dance, and the treble jig, a hard shoe dance. 
After the scores from these rounds are tabulated. the top half of the competition is recalled to do two set dances. The set dances, performed in hard shoes, must be based on both a jig and hornpipe air. Through the movement of the feet and the sounds of the shoes, the set dances reflect some aspects of Irish life and history. 
After receiving the memorial cup for the ladies championship, Showalter and the "Senior Men's" Champion, John Timm of Ohio, showcased their talents at the annual Oireachtas dinner d<.mce, where they each received money for their traveling expenses from the Mid­American Irish Dancing Teachers Association. 
Showalter became interested in Irish dancing through a friend at the age of seven. "I took gymnastics, ballet, and horseback riding at the time, but as I got more involved [in Irish dancing] I dropped these because of the time 
By MICHELE PARADIS 
Accent Writer 
Are you in the mood for some unique food and entertainment? Saint Mary's College department of music has the answer: the 20th annual Madrigal Christmas Dinners. 
The dinners, a tradition for the departments of Music and Dance, as well as a Renaissance-era feast, are scheduled for this weekend and according to Indi Dieckgrafe, professor of Dance, will feature traditional Renaissance entertainment. 
A variety of performers will provide the entertainment during the meal, Dieckgrafe said. The Saint Mary's Women's Choir and the Saint Mary's­Notre Dame Collegiate Choir will perform pieces from the 16th century. Aside from the choirs, there will also be festive dancers and instrumental musicians. 
Many of the dances will focus on Rennissance-era work, according to Dieckgrafe. "There will be three different types of court dances representing the RenaissancL, · she said. 
These dances include the Bransle, a French selection; the Galliard, a livelier piece; and the Pavan, a dance that resembles a peacock's strut. 
A great deal of work has gone into this extravagant presentation of the Renaissance-era holiday feast, and the dances are representative of the way of life of the people of Renaissance times, according to Dieckgrafe. 
The ten major dancers have been rehearsing since September, Dieckgrafe said. Four Renaissance court dancers who represent the aristocracy of the era will perform more serene and serious dances, typical of the era. 
In addition, six peasant dancers do a dance representative of Renaissance 
N RTH 
DAN 

Julie Showalter (center) placed first in the North American Championship for 1992 held in 
Orlando, Florida. 
commitment Irish dancing requires," said Showalter. 
Before college, Showalter practiced between four to eight hours a day but the demands of school now limit her practice time to two to four hours a day. 
On weekends Showalter goes home to Chicago to practice with the Dennehy School, where she spends six to eight hours a day practicing. "My teacher, Marge Dennehy, comes to South Bend once a week with my mom, and on those 
'People don't understand what the big deal is until they watch me practice.' 
-Julie Showalter 
days I usually practice for five or six hours," Showalter says. When she isn't dancing, Showalter exercises for an hour and a half. 
peasant life. 
The dinners, according to Saint Mary's Public Relations Director Brett McLaughlin, are a re-creation of a traditional Renaissance-era holiday feast. They include a combination of the traditional meal as well as the traditional entertainment. 
The feast will include roast beef au jus, roasted potatoes, glazed carrots, a winter salad of apple, celery and nuts, wastylbrede, plum pudding, and wassail, a hot cinnamon-spiced Christmas punch. 
The dinners, are held December 4, 5 and 6, in the North Lounge of Regina Hall. Seating begins at 6:30 p.m. and the festivities begin at 7 p.m. each evening. 
Tickets are $22.50 and can be purchased at the Saint Mary's box office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 10 a.m. to 4 
p.m. Monday through Friday. Ticket order forms can be made by calling the box office at (219) 284-4626. 


Irish dancing requires much more discipline and practice that most people realize. "People don't understand what the big deal is until they watch me practice. You always have to keep your arms at your sides, even during leaps," stated Showalter. 
Irish dancers compete in soft shoes and hard shoes. "The leather soft shoes are similar to toe shoes worn for ballet, but you're still required to be up on your toes," said Showalter. "You end up with a lot of crushed and broken toes, especially when you have to practice a lot." The hard shoes are heavier and have firmer soles than the soft shoes. "They look like the old Pilgrim shoes, but they have Fiberglas on the bottom." 
Competing in Irish dancing can be very expensive. "Costumes range anywhere from $100 to over $1000, and that's not even including shoes," said Showalter. The soft shoes run about $30, and Showalter goes through two pairs a month. The hard shoes cost around $80 a pair and have to be re-tipped every 
three months, a process which costs $40. 
Showalter's parents have paid for most of her traveling expenses and have supported her in every endeavor. "My parents are very supportive, in fact they're probably the most supportive parents in Irish dancing," stated Showalter. "They go with me to competitions as often as they can. And it's really great to have your parents behind you." 
Showalter's hours of practice and devotion have given her great success. She won the "Senior Ladies" division of the North American National Irish Dancing Championships in Florida in the summer of 1992, competing against over 90 women. 
She has placed first in her division of the National and the Oireachtas for the past seven years. This Easter, Showalter will travel to Ireland in hopes of being the first female American champion. 
"I want to be the first American in my division to win the World Championships," said Showalter. "When I achieve this, I'd like to retire and be teaching Irish dancing in about two years time." 
Although she devotes much of her practice time to her solo dances, Showalter also competes in group dances and participates in numerous performances around Chicago. Saint Patrick's Day is a busy time of year for Showalter and her fellow Dennehy dancers. 
The dancers perform between seven and 11 shows a night during the time around Saint Patrick's Day. "It's kind of wild, everyone's throwing green beer and by the end of the night you're exhausted." 
Despite the time commitment, Showalter says Irish dancing is worth what she puts into it. "The people you meet and the places you get to go ­that's what I like best about it," concluded Showalter. "It's really neat to have friends all over the world." 
page 12 The Observer Thursday, December 3,1992 
Debut of freshman phenom heads college action 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP)-The cozy Harmon Gym, which seats his pinpoint passes, Hendrick The Seminoles (3-2) took the zero. game was moved to a bigger 6,578. said. lead for good with 2:11 left That basket was one of many arena, almost 13,000 people Nobody seemed to notice the "We've got to keep our eyes when Edwards' tip-in gave big ones by Shepherd, the showed up for a mismatch and game was a blowout, with the open all the time because he is Florida State a 64-62 lead. smallest player on the court, in reporters flocked to watch. All Golden Bears building a 34-going to find us sooner or later," "We thought Rodney (Dobard) the Razorbacks' victory for a freshman. point lead in the second half. It Hendrick said. "With Jason, you and I could get open un­Wednesday night. 
California's heralded point was Kidd they came to see. have a floor leader who's going derneath," said Edwards, who "He went in there a few times guard, Jason Kidd, didn't dis­He admitted to being a little to do the right things. We feel also led the Seminoles with 12 with the big guys and not only appoint, making passes that nervous when the game started, confident with Jason out there." rebounds. "The plan was to get got the rebound but stuck the dazzled the crowd. In 28 min­but never showed it. Together, Kidd and fellow us the ball more." ball back in the hole," Arkansas utes, he had 11 points, 10 as­"Tonight was a learning ex­freshman Haase committed 10 Florida State's Bob Sura hit coach Nolan Richardson said. 
sists and school record-tying six perience," Kidd said. "I have a turnovers, but Bears coach Lou one of two free throws with "One of the big plays of the 
steals in an 89-65 romp over long ways to go before I become Campanelli was pleased with 1:26 left for a 65-62 advantage, game came when the clock was Sacramento State. On the minus a good college player." his young backcourt. but the visiting Minutemen got running down and he threw it side were six turnovers. Cal trailed 8-2 in the game's "They are poised and do work a chance for the win when Sura in." 
In his coming-out party Tues­early minutes before a 3-hard out there," he said. "Jerod was called for an intentional "When the shot clock was day night, Kidd demonstrated pointer by Jerod Haase started expects a lot of himself and has foul with 1:04 left. going down, I just felt like no the ball-handling flair that a 19-2 surge, putting the Bears high goals. Jason knows what Sura banged hard into Mike one was on me so I took the made him the nation's most up 21-10 with 13:06 remaining he can do on the court and does Williams, who was headed for shot and it went in," Shepherd acclaimed prep player last year. in the first half. Kidd hit a 3-it." an uncontested layup. Williams said. 
The subject of intense media pointer during the run and Florida St. 67, UMass 64 was unable to stay in the game The 6-foot-1 Shepherd scrutiny during the preseason, capped the spurt by firing a no­TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -Doug and Derek Kellogg sank two contributed all over the court, Kidd said he was relieved to look pass to Brian Hendrick for Edwards wasn't a happy player free throws to pull the Minute­popping outside for a couple of ~-have his first game behind him. a basket as the crowd oohed. after Florida State dropped two men to within 65-64. important jumpers and coming 
''I'm definitely happy," said But it was Kidd's defense that games in the preseason NIT last Massachusetts retained pos­up with five steals. He finished Kidd, half of Cal's all-freshman impressed Sacramento State week. session on the intentional foul, with 14 points in the season backcourt. "It's over now." coach Ron Newman. Edwards felt his teammates but a traveling violation gave opener for both teams. 
The 6-foot-4 Kidd received a "He's a very physical point didn't do a very good job of the ball back to Florida State Corey Beck, who played prep loud ovation from 12,700 fans guard," Newman said. "He has getting him the ball during the which ran the clock until Ed­ball in Memphis, Tenn., made at Oakland Coliseum. The popu­the uncanny talent of making stretch drive in losses to Indi­wards was fouled. two free throws with 29 
larity of Kidd, from nearby people around him better." ana and UCLA, but they cor­"What a first game," said seconds left to put Arkansas Alameda, caused the game to The Bears are beginning to rected that Wednesday. Calipari. "That's the type of ahead 79-76. Anfernee Hard­be moved from the university's get comfortable with Kidd and The 6-9 senior scored 12 of game we like to play." away, who carried Memphis Florida State's final 15 points, Arkansas 81, MSU 76 State down the stretch and fin­der NCAA investigation, Syra­including two free throws with FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. (AP) -ished with 27 points, missed a cuse wins the Big East tourna­eight seconds left, as the 11th­Arkansas, down 20 at one 3-pointer and Shepherd re­
Hoops 

ment after all the other teams bounded. That led to two free
ranked Seminoles held off No. time, was clinging to a two­report too many injuries to play. 
19 Massachusetts. point lead over No. 8 Memphis throws by Roger Crawford. 
continued from page 20 

"He wanted the ball," mar­State when the shot clock wentApril 5-Notre Dame wins the veled Massachusetts coach John to two. Robert Shepherd, with Shepherd made 12 of his 14 Rumors spread that the league NCAA tournament by default. 
Calipari. "It's hard to play the ball outside the 3-point points in the second half and did it for fear of a riot from Everyone else has either 
against a team when they all circle, stepped up and arched Crawford had 14 of his 18drunken Fighting Irish fans. flunked out, been caught 
March 18-Despite being un-cheating, or is injured. want the ball to win it." one through as the clock hit during the period. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
LOST-BLACK VELVETIE HEAR INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT -Furnished room. $200/Mo Do you have that special ticket yet? BAND, LAST SUNDAY AT THE Make money teaching English 287-2159 Paul • The ticket to my formai/SYR? 
NOTICES 

ENGINEERING DEPT, FIRST abroad. Japan and Taiwan. make On the twelfth day of Christmas my NO! 
FLOOR. PLEASE, IF FOUND, $2000-$4000 + per month. Many true love gave to me... • The ticket to get into that ATIENTION: CALL 272-3920. provide room & board + other FOR SALE Tickets to the Notre Dame Glee examination? For more information and benefits! Financially & Culturally Club Christmas Concert NO! assistance regarding the I LOST MY RED UMBRELLA rewarding! For International CHRISTMAS SWEATSHIRTS for Saturday, Dec. 12 at 8:15 in JACC. • The ticket to go home? investigation of financing, business DURING THE URBAN PLUNGE Employment Group: (206)632-1146 sale!!l Call to see samples...273-Tickets at LaFortune Info Desk. NO! opportunities and work-at-home MEETING IN THE LIBRARY AUD. ext. J5584. 2967. The ticket for the Flanner/Siegfried opportunities, THE OBSERVER LAST SUNDAY. PLEASE CALL Christmas Play urges its readers to contact the AMY AT 4530. ROOMMATE WANTED: ND alum in Chicago has perfect "The Importance of Being Uncle Better Business Bureau of Looking for female roommate for X-mas gift for you from Mom and I am looking for a sex slave -em Roscoe" Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., DID YOU TAKE THE WRONG 2nd semester. Castle Point Apt. Dad: 1984 BMW 318i, sunroof, Dec. 3-5 at Washington Hall. Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637-COAT AT THE WALSH FORMAL Can move in before break. Call 5-spd., am/fm, cassette, garaged They're $3 for students, and they 4200; or call the BBB at 219-277-ON FRIDAY NOVEMBER 20? IF Deb at 239-7890 or 271-8124 since owned, low miles, perfect CLOSE-OUT SALE benefit Dlsmas House in South 9121 or 800-439-5313. SO PLEASE CALL condition, complete with ND sticker. MUST GO PRICES!!! Bend. 
MARK X1857 SPRINGBREAKERS. Promote our Must sell! $6400 or best offer. (312) Catholics Vs. Mormons GET THEM NOW AT LAFORTUNE WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 Florida Spring Break packages. 348-7867. $5/each or 2 for $8 INFO DESK!! 
DID YOU TAKE THE WRONG Earn MONEY and FREE trips. GO IRISH! (Buy an XXL or XL, let a Large ok? TYPING COAT AT THE WALSH FORMAL Organize SMALL or LARGE groups. FREE) 287-4082 ON FRIDAY NOV. 20? IF SO Campus Marketing. 800-For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call Supplies extremely limited I! 
PLEASE CALL 423-5264. Rita Delivery on Campus Available at Britton's Card Shop A Viking's Dozen reasons to go to WordWorks Typing Service MARK X1857 234-6524 (Next to Tracks) California for Thanksgiving: Term papers, dissertations, theses Help! I need a ride to the OR Call: 287-6730 277-7406 HUGE REWARD!!!! I promise. WASHINGTON DC Area for X-mas For SALE one: the Boomerang 
Do you have my blue, Notre Dame Break. I can leave as early as COUCH, TV, CD/TAPE PLAYER Break a leg, Ann Lillie!!! couple: Aichele the chauffeur All WORDPROCESSING services. back pack-lost Monday Nov. 30 in Thurs. Dec. 17. Please call Allison STAIRMASTER :) We love you! :) few: Pacific wallet recovery Andy 234-8789 North Dining Hall? Call me or bring at X4758 or X4721 Need details, call 271 8418 Your roommates of wonder, array: Daniel Ken's chest hairs 
in by 617 PE, ASAP. NO questions Laura, Kathy, Christine, and Beth plethora: Fantasmic Thanksgiving Babysitter/Housekeeper available asked. Heather X3762. Energetic musician w/ diverse taste dinner at the Preisslers' 2nd semester, MWFS; pay needs guitar/bass/drums for Brand New: Trek Mtn Bike: cornucopia (1 ): Splash Mountain in negotiable, EXCELLENT LOST: Someone accidently picked originals band. Must own 20" Black Ciao Michelle (SMC)! There's a guy a single log REFERENCES. Please call Tanya up my blue N.D. backpack equipment. No classic rock/Metal. (Orignal Price $500) out there with a foreign accent cornucopia (2): earthquake!! at283-18BO. at dinner at North Dining Hall on Bring your sense of humor & leave SELLING FOR $400 and a desire to see you again, but veritable cornucopia (low): Yum­
Tue., Dec. 1st. I'm desperately your attitude at home. Call Jeff x1715 without your phone-#! M.283-4303 Yum Donuts, In-N-Out Burger STEPHEN JAY GOULD IS missing some important work in it. nights 273-1512. veritable cornucopia (high): non­COMING! Wednesday, December If you have it, could you please call To the ant-watcher: anticipated morning wake-ups 9th at 8:00pm in the Hesburgh Raissa x4890. Reward offered. Tickets Good luck with your Uncle Dan: last call(s) at Wild Bill's Library Auditorium. FEMALE SEEKING NEAT, Roscoe. I'm pulling for you. Allen: personalized Mickey ears 
LOST: One pair of fruit-punch NONSMOKING HOUSEMATE Break a leg or two. dozen: the (former) dome hat soaked size 13 Tevas in the stadium 10 MIN. FROM CAMPUS. PERSONAL Sincerely, baker's dozen: free headphones 
ILOST & FOUND I 

lot. If found, please call Tony at 287-$260/MONTH. 277-7048. You-know-who for the in-flight movie 9341 because I doubt they'll fit you. Hey Niff viking's dozen: it's tough, tough, No questions asked. MARGE tough, tough, TOUGH!! 
Lost: OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 
FOR RENT 

GOLD PULSAR WATCH LOST: 14K GOLD BRACELET Hi Sailor! please call me if found REWARD OFFERED. 239-7007 4, 5 or 6 bdrm. furnished houses, LOSE FAT! Healthy, guaranteed diet Have a nice lunch. Jen X1271 FROM 8-5 OR 277-5132 AFTER 5. SAFE, wash/dry, beach V-ball, PAWN BUY SELL TRADE program. Affordable. Call (616)471· sec. sys. 233-9947. 3970. STEPHEN JAY GOULD IS 
SKIIS...please...SKIIS...please OZARK TRADING POST COMING! Wednesday, December LOST: BLUE EDDIE BAUER If you have any info on Rossignol & BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 1530 WESTERN AVE. 9th at 8:00 pm in the Hesburgh OVERNIGHT BAG WITH MY K2 skiis that SKIIED out of a 219·291· 7153 287-7550 FRESHMAN BAND SEEKS Library Auditorium. BE THERE! CLOTHES AND A BROWN storage closet in Farley Hall, DRUMMER AND BASSIST MEXICAN BLANKET IN IT. I LOST contact Paula at 283-4271. IF INTERESTED CALL CHAD 50,000,000 IT DURING THE PENN STATE Reward if found ... extra Christmas ROOMMATE WANTED: ADOPT: A loving,.happy Calif. AT X4186 OR ROBERT AT WEEKEND AROUND SORIN OR cash... Piease!!! to live w/ 2 fem. grad students family can provide financial security, X2258. IT'LL BE AN EXPERIENCE Bri-guy LEWIS HALLS. CALL DAN $175, incl. util., washer/dryer excellent education and wonderful YOU WONT SOON FORGET Happy early B-day from the girls 919-659-9067. REWARD WILL FOUND: call277-20651v message future for your baby. Confidential in McCandless. You're the best!! MORE THAN MAKE UP FOR 1 retainer in SOH during lunch and legal. Expenses paid. Call COST OF CALL. THANK YOU. Wednesday. Call Jon #1730 SECLUDED 4BR 2 BATH Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805) .....MERRY CHRISTMAS ..... Hey David Kinney-Sorry I'm just 
COUNTRY HOME NEAR CAMPUS. 520-5978 or attorney (818) 241-AVOID THE CHRISTMAS RUSH deadweight and won't free up the LOST: Black psych folder w/exp 4 MEN OR 4 WOMEN. $210 5535. AND PUT YOUR CLASSIFIEDS IN department but I'm staying!!! STRIPED & SWIPED card & notes; last seen at N. Dining MONTH PER PERSON, LEASE, THE OBSERVER NOW. WISH Love always, your favotite ANE 
Hall last Wed.; if you have it DEPOSIT. 272-0806 MEN AND WOMEN THAT SPECIAL SOMEONE A SOMEONE STOLE MY BARBER call x4586-ask for Steve; no MERRY CHRISTMAS BEFORE Dear Rob McBride ­POLE ON SUNDAY NIGHT. questions SPACIOUS 6 BDRM HOME,NEAR FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE DEC. 9, THE OBSERVER'S LAST A very belated thank you for the 
11122/92. GREAT SENTIMENTAL CAMPUS.SECURITY DAY OF PUBLICATION BEFORE beautiful rose, from your VALUE. $50 REWARD. PAT'S SYSTEM.FURN. FALL 1993.272-For more info, call COSIMO'S THE HOLIDAYS. unappreciative formal date I BARBER SHOP, 273-8440. WANTED 6306 277-1875. .....HAPPY NEW YEAR ...... 
-can we now have a truce?

I 
I ----.---..... -... -..... --........ --........... -.... -.. -... -... -------.. -----------.. -------------------.. --..... --. -.......... -....... -.. -... -.. -...... --........ -... -...... -.... -....... --............. .. 
i 
l--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

NFL STANDINGS NFL TEAM STATS 
TRANSACTIONS 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE Eaat 
w L T Pet Buffalo 9 3 0 .750 Miami 8 4 0 .867 lndnplle 5 7 0 .417 NY Jell 3 9 0 .250 New England 2 10 0 .167 Central Pttaburgh 9 3 0 .750 Houston 7 5 0 .583 Cleveland 6 6 0 .500 Clncnnatl 4 8 0 .333 
w... 
Kan.Cny 8 4 0 .667 Denver 7 5 0 .583 San Diego 7 5 0 .583 LA Raldrs 5 7 0 .417 Seattle 2 10 0 .167 NATIONAL CONFERENCE Eut 
w L T Pet Dallas 10 2 0 .833 Washlngtn 7 5 0 .583 PhiIa 7 5 0 .583 NY Giants 5 7 0 .417 Phoenix 3 9 0 .250 Central Minnesota 9 3 0 .750 Green Bay 6 6 0 .500 Chicago 4 8 0 .333 T&rrllB Bay 4 8 0 .333 Detron 3 9 0 .250 Weal x-San Fran 10 2 0 .833 NewOrlns 9 3 0 .750 Atlanta 5 7 0 .417 LA Ran-a 4 8 0 .333 
x-dnched playolt berth Thuraday'a Game Atlanta at New Orleans, 8 p.m. Sunday'a Gamea Cincinnati at Cleveland, 1 p.m. 
PF  PA  Home  Away  AFC  NFC  Dlv  
314  199  5-1.()  4-2.()  8-3.()  3.().()  5-2.()  
282  217  4-2.()  4-2.()  8-3.()  2-1.()  3-3.()  
163  286  3-4-0  2-3-0  4-7.()  1.().()  3-3-o  
173  249  3-3.()  ().6.()  3-8-0  ().3.()  2-3-o  
182  294  1-5.()  1-5.()  2-$.()  ().4-0  2-4-0  
247  162  5-().0  4-3-o  8-2.()  1-1.()  4-1.()  
270  218  3-2.()  4-3.()  5-S.()  2.().()  2-3-o  
194  190  3-3.()  3-3.()  4-5.()  2-1-0  2-1.()  
206  26Q  2-4.()  2-4.()  3-5.()  1-3-o  1-4.()  
251  179  5-1.()  3-3.()  8-3-o  2-1.()  5-1.()  
188  223  6-0-0  1-5.()  8-3.()  1-2.()  3-3.()  
214  182  5-2.()  2-3-o  8-5.()  1.().()  3-3.()  
179  198  4-2.()  1-5.()  4-5.()  1-2.()  3-3.()  
89  231  1-5.()  1-5.()  2-7-o  ().3.()  1-5.()  
PF  PA  Home  Away  AFC  NFC  Dlv ·  
293  185  8-1-0  4-1-0  3.().()  7-2-0  8-1-0  
219  190  5-1-0  2-4-0  2-1-0  5-4-0  2-3-o  
26Q  188  5-().0  2-5.()  2-1-0  5-4-0  4-2-0  
251  279  3-3.()  2-4-0  1-2-0  4-5.()  2-3-o  
187  282  2-3-o  1-$.()  ().().0  3-Q.()  1-$.()  
307  191  4-2-0  5-1-0  2-1-0  7-2-0  8-1-0  
187  232  4-2-0  2-4-0  2-1-0  4-5.()  3-3.()  
241  288  3-4-0  1-4-0  ().2-0  4-8-0  3-4-0  
212  275  3-3.()  1-5.()  ().2-0  4-$.()  3-5.()  
217  253  1-5.()  2-4-0  1-2-0  2-7-0  2-4-()  
339  196  4-1-0  6-1-0  2-1-0  8-1-0  6-0-0  
235  154  5-1-0  4-2-0  2.().()  7-3.()  2-2-0  
234  306  5-2-0  ().5.()  2-2-0  3-5.()  1-3.()  
217  264  3-3.()  1-5.()  2-2-0  2-$.()  ().4-0  
Kansas Cny at Los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m.  


Detron vs. Green Bay at Milwaukee, 1 p.m. Miami at San Francisco, 4 p.m. Indianapolis at New England, 1p.m. San Diego at Phoenix, 4 p.m. Minnesota at Philadelphia, 1 p.m. Washington at New York Giants, 4 p.m New York Jets li Buffalo, 1 p.m. Los Angeles Rams at T&rrllB Bay, 8 p.m Seattle at Pmsburgh, 1 p.m Monday Game Dallas at Denver, 4 p.m. Chicago_ at Houston, 9 p.m. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
AVERAGE PER GAME Atlanta 292.0 82.2 209.8 AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Phoenix 2n.6 
78.1 199.5 OFFENSE Detron 269.5 88.3 181.2 Yarde Ruah PaH DEFENSE Buffalo 386.4 150.8 235.8 Yarde Ruah PaH Houston 360.5 98.4 262.1 Dallas 236.8 64.6 154.3 Miami 356.4 95.7 260.8 New Orleans 258.3 99.3 159.1 San Diego 323.5 123.6 199.9 Washington 270.8 96.9 173.9 P-.sburgh 322.0 143.3 178.7 Minnesota 280.8 98.8 181.9 New York Jets 289.0 113.1 175.9 PhiladelphIa 292.3 91.3 201.0 LA Raiders 287.8 114.4 173.4 Green Bay 301.9 110.0 191.9 Kanaascny 272.6 110.4 162.2 T&rrllB Bay 306.4 110.3 196.1 Cleveland 267.7 94.3 173.3 Chicago 310.0 118.8 191.3 Denver 264.4 94.8 169.6 Detron 313.3 
117.5 195.8 Indianapolis 262.9 69.5 193.4 New York Giants 314.7 117.5 197.2 New England 235.4 89.6 145.7 San Francisco 319.0 
83.2 235.8 Cincinnati 234.3 119.9 114.4 Phoenix 341.1 121.6 219.5 Seattle 207.3 97.3 109.9 LA. Rarrs 342.3 144.7 197.6 DEFENSE Atlanta 349.7 1402 209.5 Yarde RuM PaH 

IASKETBALL
San Diego 263.0 85.8 1n.4 

National Ba...tbell Aeeodllllon
Seattle 264.8 117.3 147.5 

NBA-Fined Eddie Lee Wllklna, Philadelphia
Houston 286.1 98.5 1811.8 Kansas City 270.5 102.3 1682 NEW YORK (AP) -NHL scoring leaders through Decerrber 1 : 

L.A. Raiders 272.0 110.9 161.1 

Player, Team GP G A PTS PIMBuffalo 293.3 84.8 206.4 
Lerrleux, Pk 27 30 38 68 12Pittsburgh 293.8 1022 191.6 
Lalontaine, But 25 18 29 47 31Miami 293.9 91.8 202.1 
Kurrt,LA 26 16 31 47 12Cleveland 302.5 98.3 204.3 
Recchl. Phi 23 16 29 45 20New York Jets 305.9 127.1 178.8 
Saklc, Que 26 20 21 41 12New England 3182 123.0 1952 Robnaille, LA 28 21 19 40 26Denver 331.3 127.3 204.0 
Stevens. Pk 18 2218 40 24Cincinnati 342.3 124.1 218.3 
Sundin, Que 26 17 22 39 18lnd ianapolis 345.8 136.9 206.9 
Messier, NYR 24 12 26 
38 22 Oates. Boa 
23 10 28 38 10NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Tocch91, Pk 24 18 19 37 68OFFENSE Gilmour, Tor 24 9 28 37 32Yarde Ruah Paaa Bure, Van 25 24 12 36 20San Francisco 404.5 155.3 2492 Andreychuk, But 25 19 17 36 

24 Janney, STI 25 7 29 36 2 Dallas 347.6 128.6 219.0 
Chicago 338.9 118.8 220.1 

Muller, Mon 25 7 29 36 26Green Bay 310.5 99.8 210.7 
Hull, StL 25 14 21 35 21Minnesota 309.3 116.4 192.8 
Roberts, Cal 25 13 22 35 76T&rrllB Bay 304.7 107.9 196.8 
Juneau, Boa 23 10 25 35 17Washington 299.3 105.4 193.9 
Yzerman, Del 26 17 17 34 4Philadelphia 296.6 134.7 161.9 
Turgeon, NYI 24 15 19 34 4New York Glanta 295.3 134.8 160.4 
Courtnail, Vanr 25 13 21 34 51New Orleans 294.5 98.3 1962 Lebeau, Mon 26 13 21 34 6LA. Rarrs 294.3 100.4 193.8 
Roenick, Chi 26 15 18 33 31 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
BASEBALL 
American League 
DETROIT TIGERS-Agreed to Ierma with Alan Trammell shortstop, on a on&-year contract. National League 
CHICAGO CUBS-Agreed to Ierma with Steve Lake, catcher, on a on.year contract. 
FLORIDA MARLINS-Agreed to Ierma whh Chuck Jackson and Gua Polldor, lntleldera, and Mitch Lyden, catcher-flrat baseman, on minor league contracts and asalgned them to Edmonton ol the Padflc Coast League. 
NEW YORK METS-Agraed to Ierma with Roger Mason, pKcher, on a on&-year contract Minor Leagues 
SALT LAKE CITY-Announced h has reached agreement with an unidentified minor league ballclub that wtU upgrllde h statue to T~A and r.ume OOfT1)IIIIng In the 111114 HMOn. 
76era center, $4,500; and Charlea O&kley, New York Knlcka forMtd, and Larry Krystkowiak, Utah Jazz forw&ld-center, $3,500 each tor flagrant loull committed In recent garnea. 
BOSTON CELTICS-fleci&Jmed Bart Kofoed, guard, off walvera and algned him tor the remainder ol the 18&8011. 
CHICAGO BULLS-Signed Jo Jo Englleh,
guard. 
NEW JERSEY NETS-Actlvllled Dan O'Sullivan, center, from the Injured llat. Placed Jayson WIIUama, center-forward, on the Injured list. 
PHILADELPHIA 76ERS-Actlvated Charles Shackleford, center, from the Injured llat. Placed Eddie Lee Wlklna, center, on the Injured llet. FOOTBALL National Football League 
DENVER BRONCOS-Signed Darren Plllker, punter. Actlvllled Afton Montgomery, defensive back, from lnjurlld reaerve and Cedric Tillman, wtde receiver, from the practice squlld. Placed Derrick Russell, wide I1IC8Iwr, on Injured r-. 
MIAMI DOLPHINS-Placed Mark Sander linebacker, and Bruce Alexander, corneroack, on' Injured reserve. Signed Clift Odom, linebacker, and AHred Jackson, cornerback. Waived Michael Brandon, defensive end, from the practice squad. 
The Challenge of Adult Christianity 

During these days, and until the end of the semester, students are signing up 
with Campus Ministry to take part in a program called "Communities NO." If you are an undergraduate, we hope you will join . 
Designed for first year, sophomore, and junior class students, the program will begin with a "Rally" in the LaFortune Ballroom on the first Saturday of second semester, January 16, and then involves a further commitment by the participants to meet together six times during the Spring semester of 1993. Each meeting will provide opportunity for prayer, reflection upon Scripture, discussion about issues of life and faith, and investigation into the teachings of our religious traditions. After these first six meetings, the group will decide whether to continue its life into the year(s) to come. 
Campus Ministry will work with the names and schedules of all those who sign up for the program and will match up the groups. Campus Ministry will also propose a format for the meetings and suggest the opening topics for discussion. 
Each group, a mixture of men and women, will meet in the dorm rooms or study lounges of the participants. Leadership will rotate among the members. 
Hopefully, over time, through the experience of shared prayer and honest discussion, trust will grow and the members will discover a safe place to talk about their lives, their questions, and their hopes. 
"Nobody goes to heaven by themselves." This time-honored saying wants to teach us the need for community. It reminds us we need friendship and support; we need challenge and direction. We need companions for our journey, for we travel through a world often unfriendly to our professed values and hostile to our faith. "Communities NO" hopes to answer these needs in a way suitable to our time and our location. 
How often it feels like no one listens to our concerns. How often it feels like we are struggling in our lives alone. How often it feels like our faith floats somewhere, out there in the clouds, while our lives trudge along down here in the muddy trenches. 
Perhaps a deeper experience of community and a stronger grasp of our 
traditions can change some of that. 
Notre Dame is a high-pressure place, where just about everybody works too much. Lots of people deal with stress. A typical answer to the question "How are you?" is "Fine, I guess; I'm surviving." Maybe a regular chance, twice a month, to speak confidentially with eight or nine other people we trust can bring new energy and perspective to our many and various pursuits. 
Graduating seniors often face their future lives beyond the stop light at Angela and Notre Dame Avenue with an awkward worry about how they will live rightly in the world. They have probably heard a zillion sermons through their four years here and taken at least a couple of theology classes. Maybe they have gone to Appalachia over some Break or done an Urban Plunge, Perhaps they have been involved in some kind of volunteer service, or helped organize the liturgies in their dorm chapel. Now as they set off into their adulthood, diploma in hand, they ask "What does my Christianity have to do with it all? How is it shaping my life? How is it guiding my choices?'' A couple of weeks before graduation is a tough time to wrestle with such demanding questions. A couple of semesters with a program like "Communities NO" might be a better approach. 
And so, the invitation is before us. The experience of Christians throughout the years and around the world tells us that the formation of community is an essential element of living faith. A group of faculty, rectors, and students have worked for several months preparing a program that would foster the growth of small communities of faith here on our campus. They have tried to tailor it to the needs and behaviors of Notre Dame undergrads. I think the program will be a good one. 
Memo to the members of the classes of 1994, 95, and 96: please sign up for "Communities NO" at the Campus Ministry office in the Library or in Badin Hall before you go home for Christmas. Santa will be good to you if you do. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. December 5 5:00p.m. Rev. John Lahey, C.S.C. Sun. December 6 10:00 a.m. Rev. Thomas O'Meara, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C. 

SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1sT READING  Isaiah 11, 1--10  
2ND READING  Romans 15, 4--9  
GosPEL  Matthew 3, 1--12  

page 14 The Observer Thursday, December 3, 1992 
. ­
Reggie Lewis leads Celtics over Jordan-less Bulls 
BOSTON (AP) -The Chicago Bulls couldn't stop Reggie Lewis, and Boston didn't have to stop Michael Jordan as the Celtics won 101-96 Wednesday night. 
Lewis scored 16 of his season­high 32 points when the Celtics surged ahead in the third quar­ter with 68 percent shooting. 
They outscored Chicago 57-45 in the second half as the Bulls floundered without Jordan, sidelined with a sprained left foot he injured in a 112-75 loss at New York Saturday. 
Jordan missed just three other games in seven seasons, and Chicago lost them all -104-95 to Boston in 1988-89, and 126­114 to Phoenix and 115-100 to Cleveland last season. He was hurt in two of them, and served a one-game suspension at Phoenix for bumping a referee. The first of those games broke his streak of 235 straight games. 
With Boston trailing 66-60, Lewis' 18-footer with 4:40 left in the third quarter started an 18-4 run that put the Celtics on top 7 8-70 with one period left. Lewis had 10 points during the surge. 
McDaniel had 10 points as the Celtics outscored Chicago 34-19 in the third quarter. They hit 17 of 25 shots, with Lewis making 8 of 9, while the Bulls sank 9 of 23. 
Horace Grant led the Bulls with 20 points. 
Blazers 112, Pacers 1 03 
INDIANAPOLIS-Reserve forward Cliff Robinson scored a career-high 31 points, rallying Portland from a 16-point deficit to victory over Indiana. 
The Blazers outscored the Pacers 18-6 in the first 5:19 of the fourth period to pull ahead 95-86. 
Portland rallied despite having only one starter, point guard Terry Porter, on the floor in a three-guard alignment and getting only four second-half points from Clyde Drexler, who 
NCAA's 
continued from page 20 
teams, rather than the number of strong teams in each region, was considered in Stanford's placement. 
"It was predetermined that the West's number two team (Stanford) would be moved to the region of the lowest ranked top team,~ Noonan remarked. Hence, the Mideast was chosen since Illinois, its top team, is ranked below Long Beach State and Florida, the top teams in the other regions. The relative weakness of the Northwest out­side of Long Beach State was irrelevant, as were the Mideast's strong teams ranked close behind Illinois. 
The bottom line is that Notre Dame is in for a tougher match finished with 15. 
Porter, who scored 21 points, gave the Blazers the lead for good at 81-80 on a drive with 
10:39 left. 
Reggie Miller led Indiana with 27 points, while Detlef Schrempf had 26 points and 11 rebounds for the Pacers. 
Nets 122, Hawks 115 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­Chris Morris scored 19 points, including a midcourt shot to highlight a 20-5 run against Atlanta that led New Jersey to its fourth straight victory. 
The win put Nets (8-7) over the .500 mark for the second time this season, a stark con­trast from a year ago when the club opened the season 3-12. 
Derrick Coleman, who missed the last two games with back problems, led New Jersey with 21 points, and Drazen Petrovic had 20. Stacey Augmon topped Atlanta with 22, while Do­minique Wilkins scored 18 on 5­for-22 shooting. 
The loss was only the second in seven games for the Hawks, who played the final 26 minutes without second-leading scorer Kevin Willis. The big forward was ejected by referee Joe Crawford in the first half. 
Spurs 98, 76ers 82 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -David Robinson had 27 points and a season-high 21 rebounds as San Antonio handed Philadelphia its fifth consecutive loss·. 
Antoine Carr had a season­high 25 points for the Spurs, who won for only the second time in seven road games. Kenny Payne had 17 points and Hersey Hawkins 14 for the Sixers, now 1-6 at home. 
The Spurs led by nine and scored the first eight points of the period for a 78-61 lead. San Antonio built its margin to 93­76 on a 3-pointer by Robinson with 3:45 to play. 


Clocktower Square ( 219)2 7 7 ., 129101.0.~:£, 
51400 31 Norths~mth Bend, IN 46637  ~~  v"'0.~~  
Mention This Ad and Receive 10% off  ~  
Not good for Valentine's Day  


Bucks 100, Heat 97 
MILWAUKEE -Anthony Avent converted a go-ahead three­point play and Eric Murdock made two clutch free throws as Milwaukee beat Miami for its fourth straight victory. 
Frank Brickowski scored 23 points, Blue Edwards 20 and Avent 18 as the Bucks improved their record to 10-3, matching Portland for the best record in 


than it bargained for. Despite the questionable justice of the placement, however, the Irish refuse to dwell on the difficulty of the task which lies ahead. 
"We're just excited about the prospects of playing in the NCAA Tournament.~ said Brown. "While I don't think we got the best draw, now we don't have anything to lose. We won't make any excuses; we'll just have to go play. It's going to be fun." 
Several standout players will take the floor for both teams. Notre Dame is led by senior middle blocker and All-America candidate Jessica Fiebelkorn. Fiebelkorn set school records for digs in a season and a ca­reer, while leading the team in blocks and placing second in kills. 
Sophomore outside hitter Christy Peters, who led the team in kills, and junior setter 

7 Day Delb.r.~ry-:­
Roses Flowers Balloons Plants Gift & Fruit Baskets 

Janelle Karlan, who set the school career assist record, will also be pivotal in Notre Dame's chances for success. 
For Penn State, senior middle hitter Leanne Kling leads a 
powerful attack with a team­high 386 kills this season. 
Sophomore outside hitter Laura Cook has the highest hitting percentage, while 
Finals are coming! Finals are coming! 
Follow the Honor Codal ??'s, call Kami Benson X4704 or Kevin Schroeder X17SO 
the NBA and putting them in first place in the Central Division ahead of Chicago. 
Miami, losing its third straight, was led by 26 points apiece from Kevin Edwards and Rony Seikaly. 
With the game tied, Avent took a pass from Brickowski, made a reverse layup, was fouled and completed a three-point play that put Milwaukee up 98-95 
sophomore Salima Davidson handles the setting duties. 
The coaching matchup in­volves equally stellar perform­ers, both of whom were re­cently named Tachikara Mideast Region Coaches of the Year. Brown and Penn State helmsman Russ Rose were named in a vote of region coaches to receive the award. 
Brown has had difficulties in using her award-winning skills for the upcoming match, though. She has had to con­centrate only on honing her team's skills, with little prepa­ration for the Penn State attack. 
"There are conference regu­with 1:03 left. 
Seikaly made two of four free throws in the final minute, closing the Heat to 98-97 with 25 seconds left. 
Murdock was fouled and hit both free throws with 13 sec­onds to go, putting the Bucks up by three. Mter another timeout, Kevin Edwards missed a 3­pointer just before the buzzer. 
lations that you don't share in­formation with outside oppo­nents, so we haven't been able to look at any films," Brown lamented. "We've been focus­ing on our own game. We want to build a good pass, set, hit rhythm and have confidence in our skills." 
Whether or not Notre Dame is ready to upset the lions, the NCAA berth itself is a move forward for the whole program. 
"This is a real important step toward establishing ourselves as a top program," Brown ex­plained. "We want this (playing in the NCAA) to become a habit, and this is a good start." 
~---~--------------~~~ 
-----------~-------­

Thursday, December 3, 1992 The Observer page 15 
Pats' Zolak loses starting QB job to healthy Millen 
Popular QB expected change 
FOXBORO, Mass. (AP) -Scott Zolak has shown he can be a winning NFL quarterback. Now he's back on the bench of one of the league's losingest teams. 
The second-year pro who brought excitement and victo­ries to a New England Patriots team that had neither, will be replaced by Hugh Millen for Sunday's game against Indi­anapolis. 
Millen said Wednesday his separated left shoulder, which sidelined him for the last five games and six of the last seven, is well enough so he can throw in his usual rhythm. 
"The biggest decision, as it always has been in this matter, is Hugh's health," Patriots acting coach Dante Scarnecchia said. "Up until this week, he hasn't been ready to play." 
The club is adhering to its pol­icy that a starter can't lose his job through injury. Scarnecchia said Millen, who may need mi­nor surgery in the offseason, is no more susceptible to injury than he would be next season. 
In his first NFL start, Zolak guided an 0-9 team to a 37-34 overtime victory over the Colts. He completed 20 of 29 passes for 261 yards and two touch­downs. He bowed to the crowd after one scoring pass and showed more emotion than Millen. 
"He's proved that he can play in this league," Scarnecchia said. "The three weeks that he was our starter was in many respects a blessing for him." 
Zolak's production dropped in his second game, a 24-3 victory over the New York Jets in which he threw for 102 yards. Then last week he completed 9 of 15 passes for 58 yards, two interceptions and no touch­downs in a 34-0 loss at Atlanta. It dropped the Patriots to 2-10, tied with Seattle for the NFL's worst record. 
Zolak said Millen would have regained the starting spot Sun­day "if I'd have thrown for five touchdowns against the Fal­
{;Ons." 
Although he'd like to remain the starter, ''I'm not going to cause any trouble," Zolak said. "Everybody knows now. The fans, the coaches, the front-of­fice people, they know I can play. 
"I feel I'll be back in there before the year is over," Zolak' added. Millen· "is one hit away" from being hurt. 
Zolak said he expected to be benched when Millen was healthy but was surprised to find out it would be next Sun­day. 
"He was the main man at the beginning of the year," Zolak said. "There's nothing you can do about it." 
Millen started 13 games last year, his first full season as a starter after signing as a Plan B free agent from Atlanta. In six games this season, he com­pleted 119 of 192 passes for eight touchdowns and 10 inter-


AP File Photo Ailing New England head coach Don MacPherson could return to see his team in shambles over a QB switch, as acting coach Dante Scarneccia has replaced two-time winner Scott Zolak with Hugh Millen. 
ceptions. ·The shoulder injury he sus­tained in the opener became more severe in the fifth game against San Francisco, and sidelined him for a five-game stretch after the seventh game against Cleveland. 
Tommy Hodson played the next two games before a frac­tured thumb gave Zolak his shot. 
"My shoulder's healed to the 

point where it doesn't affect my passing motion," Millen said Wednesday. ''I'm eager to play. It's my job." 
Asked if he thought he'd be. playing Sunday if Zolak had done better against Atlanta, Millen said, "I don't know.... If pigs could fly, how high would they go? The circumstances are what they are." 
Wide receiver Irving Fryar said, "Scott is more flamboyant than Hugh" but that livelier spirit may not have contributed to the wins. 
"We just came together as a team," Fryar said. "We were long overdue." 
Millen started just four games in his first five NFL seasons be­fore being signed by the Patri­ots. He was 5-8 in his 13 starts in 1991, completing 60.2 per­cent of his passes for 3,073 yards. 
Ditka's surprising decision fuels more controversy in Bears' camp 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. (AP) ­Now there is a quarterback controversy. 
Coach Mike Ditka finally cre­ated one Wednesday when he announced that Peter Tom Willis would start next Monday night at Houston instead of Jim Harbaugh. 
Willis was given his first start last week at Cleveland where the Chicago Bears suffered a fifth straight defeat by losing to the Browns 27-14. 
Harbaugh, who had started 28 straight games, took that decision in stride, playing the part of the "Good Soldier" and saying he would do everything he could to help Willis and the 
team to win. But this time it was a different story. 
"I'm extremely disappointed and surprised," said Harbaugh. "I just want to play. I'm prepared for everything. I felt like I was going to play. No, he (Ditka) didn't give me a rea­son." 
Because the game is in the Astrodome where noise is a factor, it was expected that Harbaugh, because of his ex­perience, would regain the starting role. 
"P. T. will start," said Ditka. "It's just a decision, it's my de­cision. I thought P. T. did a good job, he performed okay. He had one bad play but everybody has a bad play. He deserves another chance to start." 
Ditka said he told both quar­terbacks to be ready to play but "it is hard to please everybody." 

Ditka added that a lot is said about quarterbacks but "the main thing depends on what the team does. We don't want to put too much emphasis on the quarterback. Our first goal is to win a football game." 
Willis, who completed 19 of 26 passes for 285 yards and two touchdowns against Cleveland, also threw an interception that David Brandon returned 92 yards for a touchdown in the frrst quarter. 
"I'm happy over the decision," said Willis about his second start. "I can see it either way. I'm not worried about being· surprised or not surprised." 
Asked if he would do anything different, Willis said "''m going to try not to throw an intercep­tion in a tight spot. Other than the interception, I thought I played well." 
As for the noise factor, Willis said "I've played in a lot of noisy places in college." 


If the Bears lose at Houston it will be their sixth straight, matching their longest losing streak under Ditka when they lost their last six games in 1989. 
Shortly before that streak, Ditka had exploded after a loss and said "This team is in disar­ray, I don't think we'll win an­other game." 
The team record is eight straight losses in 1978. With three of their last four games 
1 
on the road, they could eclipse I that mark if they are unable to J win again this season. I 
I
Asked if he thought the Bears would win again this season, 
I
Ditka said "Yeah." j 
After Houston, the Bears come I home to play Pittsburgh and then finish on the road at 
l 
Detroit and Dallas. 
Members of Sacred Heart Parish and the Office of Campus Ministry · cordially invite you to join in a joyous evening of music and prayer for the Christmas Midnight Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart as a member of the Community Christmas Choir. 
Rehearsals will be held on Mondays, December 7, 14, 21 
7:00 pm -8:30 pm Crowley Hall of Music 
All ages are most welcome to join us on this joyous celebration of the Lord's birth. 
Dr. Gail Walton Director of Music, BSH Mr. Steven Warner Director of Liturgical Music Services 
page 16 The Observer Thursday, December 3, 1992 
Streaking Cowboys poised for slumping Broncos 
i I 
I 
I 
I I I I I I I I t I I I 
t 
I 
~ 
I I 
I. I I 
... 
IRVING, Texas (AP)-Now What's more, Dallas is 18-6 about their chances. scheduled to see a shoulder game behind Kansas City. it's Cowboys Time. in games immediately following "There won't be any diffi­specialist today to determine if Maddox, who quarterbacked 
The healthy Dallas Cowboys the Thanksgiving game, where culty on our part focusing on he can throw in practice. Denver in a 24-0 loss to the embark on their stretch run to they are 17-7-1, and own a 45-the Broncos," he said. "First of Johnson said the Cowboys Raiders in Los Angeles last the NFL playoffs and a possible 29 record in all games played all, we fully expect John Elwa.y will prepare as if Elway will be week in his first pro start, homefield advantage with a after an appearance on to start. Second, we understand healthy. threw his first NFL touchdown stop at Denver on Sunday, and Thanksgiving. how well they play at home." "In my mind, I don't think his pass Monday night. But he was they'll have had twice the Dallas has traditionally used Denver is 6-0 at Mile High status is in question," Johnson awful after halftime, going just preparation time of the Bron­to exira time to regroup both Stadium this year ·and has won said. "We've got to be prepared 4 of 14 for 8 yards. cos. physically and psychologically 16 of its last 17 at home. Dallas, for the Denver Broncos at their 
Dallas' last game was the for the stretch run. on the other hand, has won best. ... If he doesn't go, it's a "A lot of it was just being a traditional Thanksgiving Day "The season's a long and three straight road games, and heck of a lot easier for us to rookie and making rookie mis­contest at Texas Stadium. grueling one physically," Dallas the Cowboys can clinch their prepare for Tommy Maddox takes," Denver coach Dan where the Cowboys whipped. coach Jimmy Johnson said first outright NFC East crown than it is to adjust for John Reeves said. the New York Giants 30-3. Tuesday. "But I think it's even since 1981 if they beat the Elway." 
Denver is coming off a more demanding psychologi­Broncos and Minnesota wins at Uenver (7-5) has lost twice Elway, his team's spiritual shocking 16-13 Monday night cally, not only for players, but Philadelphia. under the direction of Maddox, and offensive leader, watched overtime loss to the woeful for coaches. Having a fresh Elway is still nursing the a rookie from UCLA who gave helplessly from the sideline as Seattle Seahawks. mind going into the next week, I sore right shoulder he bruised up his last two years of eligibil­John Kasay kicked a 32-yard 
Come Sunday, the Cowboys think it helps." Nov. 15 against the New York ity to turn pro, and slipped into field goal with 3:56 left in over­(10-2) will have had 10 days' But Johnson said that doesn't. Giants, and his status for Sun­a tie for second place in the time to end the Seahawks' rest to the Broncos' five. mean the Cowboys are cocky day is unknown. He was AFC West with San Diego, one eight-game losing streak. 
Activists angered by Schott's racist remarks 
Toretta wins Unitas award 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Clergy­to Schott on a flight to Cincin­among representatives of black LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP)-Mi­pound senior from Pinole,men and black activists were nati in December 1987 when he and Jewish groups who got an ami quarterback Gino Toretta Calif., has thrown for 7,690angered Wednesday by new heard her refer to black former apology from Schott at a meet­was named \Vinner of tll,e yards and 47 touchdowns in reports that Cincinnati Reds Reds player Dave Parker as a ing last month. 
Johnny •Unitas Golden Arm his career, completing 555 of 
owner Marge Schott made "million-dollar nigger," Daniels said the reports of 
Award .on Wednesday, pre­991 passes. He is 26-1 as
public slurs against blacks and according to reports published Schott's repeated use of racial sented annually to the nation's Miami's starting quarterback.
Jews. Wednesday. slurs in recent years are trou­top senior cqllegiate quarter:A group of Dayton-area pas­Former Reds employee Cal bling. 
back. .,;:····· 
"Gino is. smart. he makes few tors urged that Schott be sus­Levy, fired by Schott in 1989, "It says to me that the com­Toretta, Miami's career mistakes, and be probably op·pended from baseball if it is said in a court deposition that munications are going to be 
passing total offense leader. erates the offense better than 
proven she made the racial he heard Schott make the same more difficult because she 
has completed 228 of 402 anyone I've ever had,.. said
slurs of which she has been ac­reference to Parker. Schott has doesn't see that there's a prob­passes for 3,060 yards and 19 Miami coach Dennis Erickson.
cused. denied making that remark. lem, and that in itself is a touchdowns this season, while "Last season he led us to a 12­William Augman, president of Former Reds employees have problem," Daniels said. 
throwing seven interceptions. 0 record and a nationalthe Interdenominational Minis­also accused Schott of referring "But it also says to me that He bas led the Hurricanes to a championship. He's a proventerial Alliance, said the state­to people as "Jew bastards" or other people have not raised No. 1 r nking .and 11~0 mw~ winner."
this ··· ·.. ····· .... ·· · N making are an affront to all Parker said he is outraged and says to her that this is OK," 
ments Schott is accused of "money-grubbing Jews." any objections about it, which Toretta edge a group of six Toretta will be honored at aAfrican-Americans. is considering asking a lawyer Daniels said. 
quarterbacks for the award banquet Dec. 11 in Louisville.
"We believe that the game of about the possibility of suing Daniels said he is hoping to presented_ by_ tb.~ J{entuc~ybaseball has no place for bigots Schott. persuade Schott to be more Chapter of Tb.e National Foot~ The candidates were judgedand those who are insensitive to "This is not only affecting me, gracious and to try to improve 
ball Foundation and Hall of on citizenship, scholastic
the feelings and pain of all it's affecting my family. My kids her team's record of hiring Faml:}, Inc. Other finalists were achievement. leadership quali­people," Augman said. are getting feedback from it," minorities. 
Elvis Jirbac of. ~ichlgan. ties and athletic accomplish­Augman said that if the Parker said. "I go out, my Only one of her 45 front-office Shawn Jones ot;.. Ge9rgta Tecl\, ments.
allegations are true and Schott friends kid me about being the employees is black, and a Shane Matthews of ·Florida,is not suspended, the group will 'million-dollar nigger.' former Reds employee sued Rick Mirer of Notre Dame and Florida State quarterbackcall for a boycott of Reds games "I don't know why she would Schott to allege that she Alex Van Pelt of Pittsburgh. Casey Weldon won the awardand ask other teams to refuse hate me. I was the best player discriminated against blacks in Toretta, a last year.
to play the Reds. Augman was she ever had," he said. hiring and promotion. 
;_,,,::·:.::}jf:,:::::;:::':: 
· among 20 pastors at a news Schott did not return tele­
conference called by the IMA, phone calls to her office which has been active in civil Wednesday. She has said that rights issues. she is not a bigot and never in­
Baseball's owners on Tuesday tended to offend anyone. designated a committee to in­"My actions as president of 


JOP#D JAYEJS =t~.....__
vestigate the accusations the Cincinnati Reds are an open against Schott. The committee's book. They belie any charges of options include suspending her discrimination. I have nothing 

MORE TO PLAY.•.LESS TO PAY
from the game, fining her up to to hide," she said in a prepared $250,000 or doing nothing. statement Monday. 
Joseph Pfaffl, finance chair­John Daniels, a board member man of the Butler County Re­of the Black Male Coalition of publican Party, was sitting next Greater Cincinnati Inc., is 
Newly Remodeled 


eo $7.99 I'D $9.99
Notre Dame 

TAPE $4.99 I'D $7.99 
MANY TITLES TO CHOOSE
Apartments 


FROM 
Now available for the 
fOD1P 
2nd semester and 
.JjAfERS 
'93 ,. '94 school year 

IHI HAMMIS NOIRI DAMI BOOKSIORI
Call232 ,. 8256 for info 
·n the campos" 

OPIN MONDAY-SAIURDAY 9-5
and scheduled showings 

CD'S • CASSETI'ES • • AUDIO ACCESSORIES 



Thursday, December 3, 1992 The Observer page 17 
Bonds negotiating blockbuster deal with Yankees 
NEW YORK (AP) -Barry Bonds' agent and the New York Yankees talked late into the night and are set to negotiate again today as they try to com­plete a contract for the most prized free agent of the season. 
Dennis Gilbert negotiated in Los Angeles Tuesday night with New York general manager Gene Michael. who had traveled to Las Vegas earlier in the day to meet with free agent pitcher .Greg Maddux. No contract was agreed to when talks ended just before midnight PST, sources 
said. 
Several sources, speaking on 
the condition of anonymity, said 
Gilbert wanted to complete a 
deal prior to the winter meet­
ings, which begin this weekend 
at Louisville, Ky. 
The Yankees, the Atlanta 
Braves and the Los Angeles 
Dodgers are said to be the 
teams most interested in sign­
ing Bonds. Los Angeles' starting 
outfield was completed Tuesday 
after the Dodgers re-signed Eric 
Davis to a $1 million, one-year 
deal. 
Atlanta Braves president Stan 
Kasten on Tuesday said he 
didn't believe the Braves would 
be able to meet Bonds' price, 
although Braves general man­
ager John Schuerholz said early 
in the evening, "We're still 
talking." 
Last month, Bonds won his 
second National League Most 
Valuable Player Award for the 
Pittsburgh Pirates. He hit .311 
last season with 34 homers and 
103 RBis. 
The 28-year-old Gold Glove 
left fielder, who also won the 
MVP award in 1990, has driven 
in 100 or more runs and hit 25 
or more homers for three con­
secutive seasons, leading Pitts­
burgh to three straight NL East 
titles. 
Bonds made $5.15 million in 1992, the fourth-highest income in baseball. But the Pirates said they couldn't afford to sign him to a long-term deal. 
Since the end of the season, the Pirates have traded second baseman Jose Lind, watched Doug Drabek sign Tuesday with Houston and released pitchers Bob Patterson, Roger Mason and Vicente Palacios, and out­fielders Cecil Espy and Gary Varsho. In addition, Danny Jackson and Alex Cole were taken in the expansion draft. 
New York, gearing up for owner George Steinbrenner's reinstatement, is going in the other direction, attempting to sign a high-priced starting pitcher. 
The Yankees made large . offers to Drabek and Jose 
Guzman, but both went else­
where for less money. 


Free agent signings highlight a busy off-season for baseball 
NEW YORK (AP) -Doug Drabek and Jose Guzman have new teams and Barry Bonds may not be far behind. 
Drabek and the Houston As­tros agreed Tuesday to a four­year contract worth $19.5 mil­lion, and Guzman and the Chicago Cubs agreed to a four­year deal worth $14.35 million. Eric Davis, meanwhile, re­turned to the Los Angeles Dodgers a big cut fromn the $3.1 million he made last sea­son, agreeing to a one-year deal for $1 million guaranteed and the chance to earn another $1 million if he's healthy. And infielder Scott Fletcher and the Boston Red Sox agreed to a $1.2 million, two-year contract. Also, Cincinnati claimed first baseman Tommy Gregg on waivers from the Atlanta Braves and Gregg agreed to a one-year contract worth $375,000. And Greg Swindell became the first free agent of­fered arbitration this offseason. 
! STANlEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan Or Take Your Chanct:s 

1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 
He and the Cincinnati Reds may now continue to negotiate through Jan. 8. 
In other baseball news on a busy day, the San Francisco Giants fired manager Roger Craig and hired Bob Quinn as general manager. Quinn was fired by the Cincinnati Reds last month. 
The two big deals for pitchers came a day after John Smiley's $18.4 million, four-year con­tract with the Cincinnati Reds. They left Swindell, Greg Mad­dux, David Cone and Chris Bo­sio as the top available free­agent pitchers. Maddux met Tuesday at Las Vegas with Michael, while Swindell pro­posed a contract to the Astros. 
Houston said Drabek's deal was prompted by a change in owners. Drayton McLane's purchase from John McMullen was finalized on Nov. 2. 
"This is the most significant acquisition this club had made in quite some time, possibly a 
Gladieux TRAVEL 
. decade," Astros general man­ager Bill Wood said. "Hopefully we'll be able to get back to­gether soon for another an­nouncement or announcements, dep-ending on how things break." Drabek, who earned $4.5 mil­lion last year, wanted to play close to his home in The Wood­lands, a Houston suburb. In May, he rejected a $19.5 mil­lion, four-year offer to remain with the Pirates. In the deal he agreed to, he gets a $1 million signing bonus, $4 million in each of the next two seasons and $4.75 million each in 1995 and 1996. The Astros have a $5 million option for 1997 and must pay a $1 million buyout if they don't exercise it. "When the new management took over, I could tell from The Woodlands the excitement that was building and the planning for the future," Drabek said. The 30-year-old right-hander, who won the NL Cy Young 

Cubs won't attempt to re-sign Maddux, the National League Cy Young Award winner. 
"Our offer is off the table," Cubs general manager Larry Himes said.· 
Guzman, who has spent his entire career with the Rangers, had two strong years after missing 1989 with a torn rota­tor cuff and spending 1990 in the minors on injury rehabili­tation assignments. He made his major league debut with the Rangers in September 1985. 
"We talked about a contract right until the end," Rangers general manager Tom Grieve said. "I thought it was in the ballpark, but it obviously wasn't good enough. Maybe it was in the bleachers and they were at second base." 
Guzman, who made $1,465,000 last season, gets a $1.5 million signing bonus, $3,125,000 in each of the next two seasons and $3.3 million each in 1995 and 1996. He said 

Award in 1990, has a career he turned down higher offers, record of 99-70. He was 15-11 including one from the New last season with a 3.84 ERA. York Yankees, and chose Guzman, a 29-year-old right­Chicago "because it is one team hander, was 16-11 with a 3.66 I have always liked." He called ERA for the Texas Rangers last the Cubs "a team with a good season. His signing means the future, and it can be a great 
team this year and years to come." 
Davis, who completed a $9.3 million, three-year deal last season, will get a bonus of $5,494.50 for each day he's on the active roster next season and available to play. The Dodgers also agreed to let him become a free agent again after the 1993 season. 
The 30-year-old outfielder, traded to the Dodgers from Cincinnati after the 1991 sea­son, played in a career-low 76 games in 1992 and hit just .228 with five home runs and 32 RBis. He was disabled May 23 because of a separated left shoulder and on Aug. 2 because of a fractured left wrist. 
Fletcher, who made $300,000 last season, gets a $50,000 signing bonus from Boston, $650,000 next season and $700,000 in 1994. 
In other free agent news, Kirby Puckett met with the Philadelphia Phillies. Dave Winfield's agent rejected an of­fer from the Toronto Blue Jays and said he's begun serious talks with other teams, and the Atlanta Braves said they were interested in reliever Todd Worrell. 
Julie McCarthy 
a.k.a. 

"MONK" Happy 18th Birthday 
You Will Always be Our Little Girl! 
Love, 

Mom, Dad, and Jenny 

Saint Mary's basketball squeaks by Hope College 


·:.~#~~~~;,,,:.=:==A~I~~:t: 
By EILEEN MCGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team (2-2) traveled to Holland, Michigan Monday night and it turned out to be a worthwhile trip as they defeated Hope Col­lege 77-72. 
"It's always nice to win away from home," stated Coach Marvin Wood. "And this was a big win for us. We have about four or five key games which 
Byrd's spinal surgery successful 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. (AP)­Dennis Byrd underwent seven hours of surgery Wednesday that successfully stabilized his spinal cord. He remains without motion in his legs and fingers and other portions of the left side of his upper body. 
"The goal was to stabilize the spine, and that was achieved," said Dr. Elliott Hershman, the New York Jets' physician. "The longterm prognosis has not changed." 
Byrd broke the fifth cervical vertebra when he collided with teammate Scott Mersereau while trying to make a tackle last Sunday. He has had no vol­untary motion in his legs since then, although he does have some sensation in his legs. 
"There was extensive dam­age," Hershman said. 
Asked if Byrd might walk again someday, Hershman said, "That's very difficult to answer. I prefer to use the term we are hopeful." 
He did say that it probably would be within two years that the ability to walk would return -if it ever does. 
"The overall amount of im­provement that may occur will 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
take some time to determine," Hershman said. Walking again depends "strictly on his ability to heal, time and his body's ability to heal." 
After removal of disc material in the region of the break, a piece of bone from the pelvis and two plates with nine screws were inserted into the neck to stabilize the area, Hershman said. 
Byrd also was given doses of Synex, an investigational drug to promote healing of the spinal cord. Synex is not approved for use in the United States and Hershman said permission was needed from Byrd's family and the drug's manufacturer to use it. It was the first time Lenox Hill Hospital had used Synex, he said. 
"He tolerated the drug well," Hershman said. "The benefit of it is to promote the healing of the spinal cord. We don't know how much effect it has." 
Hershman said there were no known side effects from using the drug. 
For the next 48-72 hours, Byrd will be watched for signs of infection and monitored for will determine what kind of season we'll have and this was one of them." 
The Belles were ahead the entire game, but could never separate the score by more than seven points. The Belles had a tough time keeping Hope's Katie Kowalczy's three­pointers in check. 
"Every time we had a nice lead she would bang in one of those three-pointers," explained Coach Wood. "It was pressure-packed from beginning to end." stated Coach Wood. "In the end 

"It was a total team effort," of the game we won because we stated Co-Captain Julie Snyder. worked harder than them." "They would catch up and tie Four of the Belles scored in but we came right back at double-figures with co-captains them." Snyder and Kim Holmes leading 
Offensively, the Belles made the scoring with 18 and 15 excellent decisions. They played points respectively. like a team, giving the ball to Co-Captain Kristin Crowley the open players and committing no turnovers in the ever-so-critical last four min­utes of the game. 
"We played extremely well," 
immobile for so long. 

Byrd will begin rehabilitation after that and should be re­leased from Lenox Hill within two weeks. He then would go to a rehab center for several months. 
Byrd, 26, did not sever his spinal cord. 
"The prognosis is somewhat better for patients with incom­plete lesions," Hershman said. "That's not to say all people with incomplete lesions heal." 
The defensive lineman has use of his deltoid muscles and his biceps. His right triceps are "fairly functional, but his left are not," Hershman said. 
Byrd has right wrist function, but none in his left wrist. He has no finger flexion in either hand. · 
"He can bring his arms from side to side, forward and back," Hershman said. 
In the ambulance on the way to the hospital from Giants Sta­dium, Byrd said all he wanted to do "was hug my girls again." 
He should be able to hug wife Angela and 2-year-old daughter Ashtin again, Hershman said. 
chipped in by hitting three of the five three-pointers she at­tempted. 
This weekend, Saint Mary's will hold their annual Round­ball Classic, inviting Milikin Col­lege and IUSB. The Belles have already routed IUSB earlier this season, 103-63. 
The Water Polo Club will ha,ve 
IDecernb«~r 3 at<6p;tfi., ·i:rrMontgom(lry T.. 1..nea.ter itl!La.I?O:ttUJ1(i:hWfl ordering Jackets so bring your "n'"""·'"' can!tot make· the meeting; tstJ:teJrrtHnorl~l l"""''""'m''"'"'' 3 at 271-8641. · 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM 
FRIDAY

.. 
Women1s Basketball vs #17 Purdue JACC 7:30PM* 
SUNDAY Men1s Basketball vs Evansville JACC 2:00PM 

*Free admission with Blue & Gold Card 

Seniors Friday Lunch 
12 2 
ll1USt be 21 

II. Today II. 
Thursday, December 3, 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

BILL WATTERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

FINAli'i, SC>t-1\E liME To Mi'S£L~.' 
LIBERT'i I PRE.CIOlJS LI8ERn .' 
\-!fl.. 1-\P. liA! 
46 Broker's suggestion 47 Baker's topper 49 Merciless 50 Autumnal hue 52 Rainbows 53 Make an error 56 Folk singer Guthrie 57 Winfrey of TV 59 Autumnal hue 60 Farm implement 61 Declaim &2Like-of bricks 63 Stitched 64Kremlin features 65 Plaintiff 
DOWN 
1 Autumnal hues 
2 Notion, in Lille 3TreeofWU.S. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Timely 5 Earthenware 
mug 10 Qualified 14 City of Judah 15 --the-wisp 16 Corn product 17 Faculty official 18 Autumnal hue 19 "Spring 
forward, fall " 20 Sixtieth of a min. 21 "Peter Pan" pirate 22 Three-wheelers 24Assists 26 Like some birch bark 
I'M f-laME! I'M 
FREE! ~E RE'SI 0~ i\-IE OA'i IS AlL MINE.' 
27 Aztec's 
predecessor 29 Fodder 30 Mahler's "­
Lied von der Erde" 33 "-, buckle 
my shoe" 34 Malayan gibbon 35 Bandleader 
Fields 36 Greenish blue 37 Rose's 
protector? 39-(Fatha) 
Hines 40 Golden ide 41 Rocky peak 42 Russian 
wolfhound 44 Opp. of NNE 45-fide 
(genuine) 


4 Sea bird 5 N. American 
13 Lions' rivals 
poplar 21 Large number 
&"The-They Are 23 Free (of) A-Changin'": 
25 Plan, in Ayr Dylan 
26 Endure7 Wittenberg's 27 Namesakes of river Dorothy's dog
8 Seine island 9 Trees of New 
28 Unique things England 29 Requirement of 10 Circuit fauna 11 American trees 31 Flying machines, for guipure short 

DOMINO'S DAILY DEAL 
Today's Special: 
1 Large 
$495 
Cheese Pizza 
I (Additional toppings 95¢ per pizza) 

Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any 
Call Now 

other offer. Customer pays sales £ax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our
NO 271,0300 

drivers carry less than $20. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. © 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc.
SMC 289,0033 
MENU ..•...··. 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Yankee Pot Roast Grill Bar 
Turbot Almondine Marinated London Broil 
Hot Dogs Thrkey Divan 
LECTURES Thursday 12:15-1:15 p.m. Presentation, "Careers in International Relief & Development: What Do You Need to Get There?," Maria White, Internship and Employment Coordinator, Catholic Relief Services. Room 131 Decio. Sponsored by the Kroc Institute for lnternatrional Peace Studies. 
4:15p.m. Lecture, "Public Opinion on the Role of the State: Chile in Transition to Democracy," Pablo Halpern, The Woodrow Wilson Center, Room C-103 Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
CAMPUS Thursday 
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. UNICEF Card Sale. Concourse, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
6:30 p.m. "The Dating Game." Saint Mary's freshman class presentation. Carroll Auditorium. 7 p.m. Presentation, "Positive Self-Presentation in the 90's," Shelli Yoder, Miss Indiana 1992. Little Theatre at Saint Mary's. Sponsored by Student Activities Board, Women in Communication, Inc .. and Department of Communication, Dance & Theatre. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

32 Riven 35 Begin tennis 38-Kong 43 Burden 45 Double this for a 
Chilean river 48 Buffoon 49Jalopy so Barks 
51 First name in mysteries 52 Composer Khachaturian 54 Hautboy 55 Unit of force sa Couples, e.g. 59 Indian author-astrologer 
Get answers to any three clues by tquch-tone phone: 1-900-420· 5656 (75¢ each mlnute).No. 1022 



Sports 
page 20 Thursday, December 3, 1992 
PAUL PEARSON 
After Further Review 

A few predictions for the college hoops season 
Dec. 5-In the big game against Kansas University, Indiana loses 87-84. Beloved IU coach Bobby "I was too cruel for West Point" Knight throws two chairs, eats his own sweater and slams dunks a referee into a Gatorade container. 
Knight comments later "I would've gotten excited, but the trip here really exhausted me." 
Dec. 8-For fear of structural damage to the J.A.C.C., the Notre Dame-IU game is cancelled. 
Dec. 19-The entire Miami Hurricane starting lineup is declared academically ineligible. The entire university is stunned. "Maybe we shouldn't have had the football players tutor the hoops players after all," one advisor says. 
Dec. 29-In the championship game of the Sugar Bowl Tournament in New Orleans, Texas A&M beats Notre Dame 80-50. 
Jan. 1-ln the Cotton Bowl, Notre Dame beats A&M 50-3. Lou Holtz denies rumors that John MacLeod told him to "run up the score on those damned Aggies." 
Jan. 4-The entire St. John's team transfers out of the school when they begin wondering why anyone would want to spend their college years in the middle of a New York City slum. 
Jan. 6-ND beats Detroit Mercy 76­
58. Sportswriters around the country call it "The Upset of the Decade." 
Jan. 12-Dick Vitale celebrates the millionth shout of "SHOOT THE ROCK, BA-BEEE!!!" Fellow ESPN reporter bites his own tie to resist the urge to strangle him. 
Jan. 16-John MacLeod throws a fit when Notre Dame and Michigan end regulation tied at 77. The coach calms down when he is told that, unlike his friends in the football office, his team gets to play overtime. 
Jan. 18-Duke fans, livid after a loss to North Carolina, storm the Cameron Indoor Arena scorer's table and de­mand a recount. 
Jan. 25-The Big West postseason tournament is cancelled, since every team has been put on probation. 
Feb. 6-Top-ranked Georgetown finally loses a game when both its towel boys foul out. 
Feb. 18-The NCAA announces another investigation on recruiting violations at UNLV. Since this is, after all, Las Vegas, no one is surprised. 
Feb. 22-John Chancellor finally stuffs a hot dog into Dick Vitale's mouth and is immediately awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor. 
Feb. 28-IU fires Knight, claiming he 
will be replaced by a calmer, more level-headed coach-Mike Ditka. March 5-NBC pays $2 billion to show the next 10 NCAA Tournaments. 

.. After seeing what they have done with four-hour Notre Dame football games, the NCAA turns them down. 
March 17-Notre Dame is given an at-large bid in the NCAA Tournament. 
see HOOPS/page 12 
INSIDE SPORTS 

Fencing prepares for optimistic upcoming season 
Irish volleyball heads to NCAA's 
By DAN PIER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team likes to face a challenge. Aft P,~ falling just short of making NCAA Cl:ul~r.f-' pionships last year, the Irish did that. earning its second-ever trip to the tournament this season. Now Notre Dame is treated to a greater challenge: a first round road match against ninth­ranked Penn State. 
The Nittany Lions rolled up a 27-3 regular season and placed second in the Big Ten behind Illinois. The Irish opponents are particularly tough to handle at home, where they are 183-8 since 1980, including 69 wins in their last 70 games at Rec HalL 
The difficult draw is made more frustrating for Notre Dame since the Irish anticipated a fourth seed in the Mideast Regional part of the tournament, consistent with their pre-tournament regional ranking. That spot would have secured a first-round match pitting the Irish against fifth-seeded Colorado. 
However, the NCAA had determined to move one team out of the very strong West Region. That team was Stanford, which the selection committee placed first in the Mideast, dropping all the other teams one spot. The move forces Notre Dame, now the fifth seed, to meet the Nittany Lions, now number four in the region. 
"I thought that Stanford would go to another region," said Irish head coach Debbie Brown of the move. "The Mideast has three teams in the coaches' top ten, so I thought they would go to the Northwest. But there were pros and cons involved in every option (the NCAA) had." 
Donna Noonan of the NCAA explained that the ranking of the regions' top 
see NCAA's/page 14 
.. 

firmed by the NCAA. Because Panyi is an international stu­dent, the NCAA is currently going through the process of confirming her eligibility by verifying her amateur status and her having met academic requirements. 
In the meantime, Panyi has been getting the job done both on the fencing strip and in the classroom. After a month and a half of hard work in practice, Panyi and her teammates are anxious to begin the season. 
And the individual talent possessed by this team should provide some excellent results against the difficult opponents found on the Irish's schedule. 
The Saint Mary's swimming team was only able to win two of 16 events in last night's meet at Rolf's Aquatic Center. 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
By KEVIN JANICKI 
Sports Writer 
Although the Notre Dame fencing squad has the month of December off as far as meets are concerned, the fencers are working hard each day to prepare for the winter season. 
The dual meet season will open when the Irish head to Evanston, Illinois on January 16 and 17. This opening meet will include 1992 NCAA seventh-place finisher Wayne State, along with MIT and Cal State Long Beach, and feature some very strong men's fencers and a tough women's squad from Temple. 
Senior James Taliaferro, 

who captured 
should also be a third-place prepared to finish in the help get the s a b r e Irish off to a competition at good start. In last month's f a c t , Garret Penn according to State Open head coach individual Mike DeCicco, tournament, the presence and Jeff Piper, of Panyi on who missed the strip will the Penn State ,, . be the differ-Open due to a ti!f 
·"d#fl/j ence for t~e
b . 'l'•·'''lt/!11111! 

women s
h~n~n~~~r~31 James Taliaferro squad right look to lead from the the men in a strong season opening meet. opener. Panyi, a freshman from Maria Panyi, perhaps the Hungary, did not compete in nation's finest foilist and the Penn State Open since her Notre Dame's best fencer eligibility was yet to be con-
SMC swimming trounced 

The Observer/Jake Peters Senior All-American candidate Jessica Fiebelkorn will look to improve on her career dig record and topple 9th-ranked Penn State today in NCAA action at Happy Valley. 
.... 
IISaint Mary's hoops wins 
see page18 
•cowboys ready for Broncos 
see page 16 
•college roundup 
see page12 
By JENNIFER ROACH 
Sports Writer 
A good indication of how last night's Saint Mary's swim meet went is the fact that Belles coach Dennis Cooper was so angry h'O' refused a post-meet interview. 
That's how bad it went. 
Albion College routed the Belles 186-101, winning 14 out of the 16 total events. 
"The lack of enthusiasum and expected depth made a win impossible,"noted junior Jen Gustafson. 
Laurie Beth Kerns and Jill Cooper, both freshmen, took first place in the 100 yard breaststroke and the 200 yard breaststroke, respectively, for the Belles' only two winning events. However, several others made good showings. 
Maura Sullivan, a first-year swimmer, swam her first ever 100 butterfly in 1:17.72 and placed third in the 200 yard freestyle. Other outstanding personal achievements were junior Katie Northrup's time of 

2:26.46 in the 200 butterfly and freshman Katie Rose's second-place time of 1:07.15 in the 100 yard backstroke. 
Though there were no divers to compete in either the one meter or three meter diving events, the Belles had hoped to make these points up in other events. 
Unfortunately, with several swimmers stricked with .the flu and the lack of training over Thanksgiving break this was not possible. Albion's 13 swimmers had the enthusia­sum and the depththat the Belles lacked to come away with the win. 
The Belles still have high hopes as they travel to Val­praiso to compete in a tri-meet this Saturday. 




