
,a,.~ • v Cl" 
•-. Q~lc;! i: r.tNIAL 
---· -~­

VOL. XXIV NO.2 I. :J b7 MONDAY. January 20, 1992
I 
. THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
HPC to address letter's allegations of corruption 
BY DAVID KINNEY Associate News Editor 
The Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) attempted to address al­legations of corruption and in­effectiveness within the organi­zation during a series of closed meetings last week. 
The controversy revolves around a letter printed in The Observer Wednesday by Robert Pritchard and David Jacobson, president and vice president of St. Edward's Hall. The letter claimed a number of instances of misuse of dorm funds for the personal use of HPC members, and said that the council failed to act effectively on campus is­sues. 
The central issue raised in the 
King's widow blasts Bush 
ATLANTA (AP) -The widow of slain civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr., in her annual "State of the Dream" speech, on Sunday blamed the Bush administration for hope­lessness among the poor. 
Coretta Scott King's criticism came two days after President Bush traveled to Atlanta and laid a wreath on King's tomb as part of a week of commemo­rations culminating on Monday 
with  the  national  holiday  
honoring King.  
The  activities  in  Atlanta  

commemorating the 63rd an­niversary of King's birthday were among many being held around the country. 
Mrs. King called on Bush and Congress to take the lead to find housing, jobs and medical care for the poor. 
"Our nation cannot do less," she told about 850 people at the King Center for Nonviolent Social Change. "The time has come for us to civilize ourselves for the total, direct and imme­diate absolution of poverty." 
"No single reform will do more to eradicate poverty in the United States than a na­tional consensus in govern­ment," she said on the eve of the seventh national holiday honoring her slain husband. 
On Monday, Mrs. King and Winnie Mandela, wife of African National Congress President Nelson Mandela, will lead a march through Atlanta to honor King, who was slain on April 4, 1968, in Memphis, Tenn. 
Mrs. Mandela said when she visited King's grave in Atlanta, she couldn't help thinking that she and her husband may meet the same fate. 
"One has learned to accept the possibility of anything hap­pening in our struggle," Mrs. Mandela told The Atlanta Jour­nal-Constitution. "I think both of us are much more vulnerable now than we were before, and we have accepted that." 
In New York, leaders of di­verse groups called for har­mony Sunday as the city, strug­gling to cope with a wave of hate crimes, remembered King. 

letter was that of the traditional use of dorm funds to pay for meals at HPC's weekly meeting. Pritchard and Jacobson said they believe that the money should be used for the service of the dorm, and that if the money is to be used to pay for meals, the students should be notified. 
The letter also accused the council of lack of effectiveness. "When an actual issue comes up for discussion, HPC has done nothing," the letter said. 
HPC members were disap­pointed and embarrassed that the letter was presented in such a malicious fashion, said Keith McKeon, president of Grace Hall. "There are things in the letter that are not true," he said. 
• 
'Gag rule' debated I page 6 

• 
Group prohibited/page 4 


HPC co-chair Charlie James agreed that Pritchard and Jacobson did not take the right approach, citing other channels that they could have taken to deal with the issue. Moreover, he said he believes the council is an effective organization that is actually becoming more effective. 
Although members were ini­tially upset about the contents of the letter, they are now at­tempting to deal with the prob­lems presented, according to Stanford Hall President Greg Butrus. "Some good will come from this letter," he added. 
A retraction signed by 

Pritchard and Jacobson that appears in today's edition of The Observer corrects some er­roneous information in the original letter. 
"We felt there may have been some misunderstandings of some of the issues in the (Jan. 
15) letter," Pritchard said. However, "we believe that no one has come to us with actual misunderstandings about the really important issues." 
Pritchard admitted that there were some mistakes in the first letter, but said that "the facts were not as important as the bigger issues at hand." 
The retraction is signed by Pritchard and Jacobson. 
Butrus said that while Pritchard and Jacobson drafted the letter, a committee of HPC 


The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Snow tubing 

Notre Dame juniors Matt Marr and Scott McCarthy, left to right, enjoy South Bend's snowy weather. 

Yeltsin appeals to former Soviet officers 
MOSCOW (AP) -Russian President Boris Yeltsin said Friday that the Commonwealth of Independent States will di­vide the former Soviet navy but warned that if member states spurn a united army, Russia will form its own. 
"Russia stood up and is standing up for the unified armed forces. But if the major­ity of the republics start form­ing their own armed forces, we will have no choice but to do the same thing," he said. 
As the largest and most popu­lous of the former Soviet re­publics, a Russian military could far outnumber any force assembled in the other 10 commonwealth states. 
The dispute over control of the 3. 7 -million-strong former Soviet military has dominated the first weeks of the common­wealth and hampered political and economic reforms. 
Yeltsin spoke to more than 5,000 former Soviet officers gathered to press their de­mands for a unified military. He tried to reassure the ser­vicemen, but could not pretend that serious divisions hadn't al­ready emerged. 
The tension was reflected in­side and outside of the cav­ernous Palace of Congresses. A few pro-Communist demonstra­tors on the street, waving red Soviet flags, urged the officers to preserve the military and re­portedly hit a heckler with a placard, the Russian Information Agency said. 
Inside, the officers fell into raucous debate after Yeltsin's speech and at one point refused to let a reformist officer speak. A poll of the officers, an­nounced during the session, found 72 percent in favor of a united command and 80 per­cent insisting the army play a role in deciding its fate, the news agency said. 
Yeltsin said commonwealth leaders had decided Thursday 
that parts of the Black Sea fleet would be given to Ukraine, and Azerbaijan would acquire some of the Caspian Sea fleet. 
Along with concerns about housing, salaries and pensions, servicemen also worry that they would be forced to swear alle­giance to former Soviet re­publics where they serve. Ukraine -and Russia itself ­have demanded that troops on their soil take such oaths. 
Yeltsin said new conscripts would have to swear allegiance to the newly independent states, but current officers would not have to take new oaths. 
Yevgeny Shaposhnikov, in­terim commander of the com­monwealth armed forces, said its representatives agreed Thursday to a common oath for the new association's strategic forces. But he said only seven of the 12 commonwealth members agreed to an oath for unified conventional forces. 

members had input into the fi­nal copy. Stanford Vice­President John Donahue agreed that the committee was in­volved in the writing of the re­traction. 
Flanner Hall co-president Rich Delevan, however, said the retraction was written entirely by Pritchard and Jacobson. 
James said he "can't discuss" whether HPC members con­tributed to the letter of retrac­tion, but said this would be re­vealed in the recording of the meeting. 
HPC held a special meeting last Thursday to address the issues raised in the first letter. At the beginning of the meeting, members voted 23-1 to close 
see HPC I page 4 
ND/ SMC joins King celebration 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's community will join cel­
ebrants around the world today 
honoring Dr. Martin Luther 
King, Jr. 
At Notre Dame, the film "Montgomery to Memphis" will be shown at 7:30p.m. in Room 120 of the Law School. There will also be a panel discussion, "Civil Rights: Past, Present and Future." 
• Arizona celebtration/page 5 
Among the participants in the discussion will be Fernand Dutile, dean of the Law School, Professor of Law Robert Rodes and Thomas Broden, professor emeritus of law. Sabrina McCarthy, associate professor of law, will moderate the dis­cussion. 
Saint Mary's will ring the bells in Lourdes Tower and the Church of Loretto today in the honor of King. 
The official "Let Freedom Ring" ceremony begins today at noon in Philadelphia with the ringing of the Liberty Bell. All churches in North America were asked by the Martin Luther King, Jr. Federal Holiday Commission to join in 
the ,,,.,n,or1v 


page 2 Monday, January 20, 1992
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Death is an 
unpleasant side 

of adulthood 
For me, the most------­interesting part of reading celebrity interviews has always been the answers to the question "When did you know that you were 
an adult?" 
This question always 
interested me not because 
of how the celebrities John O'Brien 
responded. but because it Accent Editor 
would made me wonder 
how I would know that I had become an 
adult. 
Would my first date mark my rite of passage 
into adult? Or would it be the first time I 
bought legally bought alcohol? What about 
the first time I had a real job interview? 
Having survived all of these, I had accu­
mulated enough experience to be considered 
an adult by many. Yet for some reason, I 
never really felt like an adult 
Last week, something happened to make me 
realize that adulthood has arrived: On 
Saturday. someone I went to grade school and 
high school with was killed in a car accident. 
In today's world it is not unusual for people 
my age to have a friend who dies. If anything, 
it would seem pretty normal. 
But I added up the numbers. Three high 
school classmates dead from suicides, two 
other neighborhood acquaintances dead from 
the same. Several others dead from car 
accidents. 
I had seen my fair share of deaths of friends 
and acquaintances. 
John, who was killed last Saturday, was the second person from my grade school and high school who has died already. Joe, the first, had a heart attack when I was a freshman in college. 
I knew both of them pretty well. I palled around with them when I was younger and I saw them every once in a while in high school. 
l grew up thinking of death as a conse­quence of aging. As proof, I saw how the older my parents got older, they went to a lot more wakes and funerals. As people get older, I thought. its only natural for more of their friends to die. 
But until this week, I never considered myself old. I am only 21 years old and yet I've already seen the deaths of two guys who I grew up with. I've been to more funerals of high school classmates alone than most people have been to in their lives, and it makes me feel old. 
As I think about these guys and all the others I know who have died, I realize that I am getting old. 
Right now, it's just a call from my family about once a year telling me someone I know is dead. Eventually, though, there will be a lot more deaths and a lot more funerals. Like my parents, sometimes I'll get as many as one call a week. Unlike the privilege of buying alcohol or the right to vote, this is one feature of adulthood I'd gladly give up. 
But I can't give it up. I'll have to learn to deal with death because I'm an adult now. But sometimes I wish I wasn't. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Seoul upset about sex slaves 
·~EOUL, South Korea-The foreign minister today said South Korea may demand compensation from Japan for tens of thousands of Korean women forced to have sex with Japanese soldiers during World War II. It was 
the strongest statement yet by the South Korean government on the subject. It came only hours after Japanese Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa departed Seoul, ending a state visit marred by angry protests demanding that Japan atone further for wartime atrocities. The foreign minister's remarks, coupled with a broad new investigation launched by the government, seemed likely to escalate the issue of the so-called "comfort girls," and heighten anti-Japanese feelings in Korea. Historians say 70,000 to 200,000 young Korean women were forced into the Teishintai, a corps that included sex slaves for soldiers of the Japanese Imperial Army in China, Southeast Asia and Taiwan. Japan apologized for wartime wrongs and paid $300 million in compensation when it opened diplomatic relations with South Korea, a former colony, in 1965. Victims of World War II forced labor camps and others say it is not enough. 


NATIONAL 

Bush to expand Head Start program 
•WASHING10N-President Bush will seek a sharp increase in funding for the 
Head Start program, expanding the number of poor preschool children re­ceiving federally financed educational, medical and nutritional services, the White House announced Friday. Seeking an 


election-year spotlight for his proposal, Bush on Tuesday will visit a classroom at the Emily Harris Head Start Center at Catonsville, Md., six miles west of Baltimore. The increase, to be included in the fiscal 1993 budget, would be the largest ever for the 27­year-old Head Start program, a White House statement said. In his 1988 campaign for president, Bush promised 


OF INTEREST 
FORECAST: 
Mostly cloudy and warmer today w~h highs in the mid­20s to low-30s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Athens  52  39  
Atlanta  40  27  
Barcelona  50  37  
Boston  21  07  
Cairo  63  52  
Chicago  26  ·05  
Denver  48  16  
Fairbanks  7  .a  
Great Falls  44  32  
Honolulu  79  66  
Houston  52  36  
Indianapolis  24  -6  
London  48  39  
Los Angeles  73  4 7  
Miami Beach  78  69  
New Orleans  50  38  
New York  23  1 1  
Paris  43  34  
Philadelphia  23  11  
Rome  30  54  
San Diego  72  48  
San Francisco  55  43  
Soulh Bend  32  24  
Tokyo  48  36  
Washington. D.C. 25  14  


to expand Head Start to reach all eligible 4-year-old children. Although Head Start funding has nearly doubled during his administration, Bush has fallen short of his goal. Currently, the program serves only about 60 percent of the children who are eligible for Head Start. 
Northwestern professor convicted 
•EVANSTON, Ill.-Olan Rand is described by some as a dedicated professor of art history who takes the time to give personal attention to his students. He's also a convict -sentenced earlier this month for stealing Social Security checks issued to his dead mother. Rand, 60, is a tenured professor who has taught art history at Northwestern University for about 30 years. Students describe him as a dedicated teacher with a wide-ranging expertise in the Italian Renaissance. But in Boston this month. Rand was given a suspended sentence and ordered to pay $34,000 in restitution after pleading guilty to stealing Social Security checks issued to his mother, who died in 1981. Rand's conviction has sparked a controversy on the campus of this Big Ten school north of Chicago, with the school's newspaper calling for his dismissal and others defending him as a fine educator who should retain his position. 

Farm youth has arms reattached 
•ROBBINSDALE, Minn.-Doctors said Friday they're encouraged by the progress of a teen-ager whose arms were reattached after being ripped off in a farming accident. Doctors on Friday performed follow-up surgery on John Thompson, 18, who lost both arms when he became caught on a tractor's power take-off shaft while working alone Saturday on the family farm near Hurdsfield, N.D. He staggered about 400 yards to his house, twisted doorknobs with his mouth. then clenched a pencil in his teeth to work a touch-tone phone to call for help. His arms were cut off 3-4 inches below the shoulders. Each arm was shortened by 2 inches during the reattachment, Van Beek said. Thompson was in stable condition Friday, but doctors said they have to be wary of infection, which could threaten the arms. Dr. J. Bart Muldowney, another plastic surgeon, said it's possible Thompson may someday be able to use his hands, but that it's much too soon to tell. 
The views contained in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff  
Production  News  
Lisa Bourdon  Frank Rivera  
Julie Barrett  
Lab Tech  Graphics  
Garr Schwartz  Brendan Regan  
Business  VIewpoint  
Colleen Gannon  Rich Riley  
Andy Runkle  
Rich Riley  
Sports  Accent  
Jennifer Marten  Paige Smoron  
Katie Eustermann  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
•Earth Day information meeting is tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the Holy Cross Parlor at Saint Mary's. 

MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/January 17 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 347,836,540 230.89 .. 0.34 S&P COMPOSITE 418.86 • 0.65 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,246.98 • 15.43 

PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD" $ 2.50 to $354.50/oz. 
SILVER" 4.8¢ to $4.290/oz. 

•Native American tutoring for the spring semester will begin on Tuesday at 6 p.m. in Madeleva Hall in room 315 at Saint Mary's. Persons interested in tutoring Native American students ages 4-17. please contact Micheal Cox at 234-1048. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
On January 20: 
e In 1907: Workers clash with troops in Paris as Clemenceau closes Trade Union Center. e In 1927: Mexico accepts arbitration on dispute with the 
United States over oil land ownership laws. e In 1945: PresidentFranklin Delano Roosevelt is in­augurated in Washington D.C. for the fourth time. 
e In 1948: Reports circulate that Soviets have stolen $170 
million in art from Dresden, Germany. 
Monday, January 20, 1992 The Observer page3 

By JULIE BARRETI News Writer 
Camera crews, reporters and Sacred Heart parishners at­tended the press conference Friday in which Sacred Heart Church was designated a minor basilica by the Vatican. 
Bishop John D'Arcy of Fort Wayne/South Bend, University President Father Edward Malloy and Father Daniel Jenky, rector of Sacred Heart Church, announced and extolled the honor and significance of the special tribute at the meeting. 
"This honor recognizes the special place of worship and community the Sacred Heart Church has held for generations of students at Notre Dame, the diocese of South Bend and the American Catholic Church as a whole," D'Arcy said. 
The honor is testimony to the faith and devotion of the many men and women who have worked and prayed at Sacred Heart, Malloy added. 
The Vatican has distinguished Sacred Heart as a minor basil­ica for its historical significance in the American Catholic Church, built in 1871, and its role as a common place of wor­ship and celebration for Catholics from all over the world, according to Jenky. 
"Sacred Heart is an active church with a large number of people who come to celebrate the Eucharist, and not just during football weekends, but throughout the yea~· D'Arcy said. 
With the new title of Basilica of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, the church acquires the marked responsibility to continue to grow and strengthen the con­cern for spiritual life of stu­dents, parishners and clergy as well as to strengthen the link of faith between the Sacred Heart Parish, the universal church and the Roman Pontiff, D'Arcy said. 

Malloy also announced at the news conference that Notre Dame will host the National Conference of National Bishops for the first time in June. This conference was established after Vatican II to provide bishops with the opportunity to meet twice a year to discuss important issues. 
Both announcements come during the University's sesqui­centennial celebration. 
Researchers invest time on X-30 despite budget 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) ­Thousands of researchers around the world are investing all their energy and hope in a futuristic spaceship that takes off like a plane and accelerates to 25 times the speed of sound. 
Space laboratories, space factories, space military posts, space transfer stations for people headed to the moon and Mars, space hotels for space tourists -this is the not-so­distant future envisioned by scientists and engineers design­ing space planes. 
"It's only up to your imagina­tion of what it could be," said Jim Arrington, NASA deputy program director for the pro­posed National Aero-Space Plane. 
It boils down, though, to what governments are willing and able to spend. 
"What's disheartening is the congressional action. The funding goes up and down," Arrington said at an interna­tional space plane conference in Orlando in December. 
Right now, funding is down, way down, for America's space plane program. 
NASA and the Defense Department requested $304 million this fiscal year, which began in October. They got $205 million from Congress, the lowest amount since 1987, the second year of the joint program. The bulk -$200 million -came from the Pentagon's budget. 
NASA Administrator Richard Truly submitted an operating plan to Congress in December that boosted his agency's share in the space plane program from $5 million to $20 million by shifting funds from aero­nautics research. Key lawmak­ers opposed the plan, however, and NASA said it would report back to Congress later this month. 
To save money, the program work force is being reduced and the research phase is being extended half a year to October 1993, possibly longer. That pushes back the first flight of an experimental, single stage-to-
MEDICAL 
orbit plane, the X-30, from around 1997 to closer to the turn of the century, provided the White House agrees to pro­ceed. 
Before this year's budget punch, a decision on whether to build and test two X-30s had been expected in April 1993, based on the technology devel­oped. It's uncertain now when that decision will come. 
"We're both discouraged and encouraged," Arrington said. "We're encouraged that we survived this cycle again." 
The sentiment is much the 
same in the Soviet Union, which 
is collaborating with the British 
on a space plane. 
"Such a system should be built and be in effect by the end of the century," Soviet scientist German I. Zagainov said through an interpreter at the conference. "This, of course, depends on the financing." 
Germany's plans for a space plane also hinge dangerously on money. There is talk about teaming with the French. 
"There are now more burning problems than to extend space research," said German physi­cist Ulf Mer bold, who is to make his second space flight Jan. 22 aboard NASA's shuttle Discovery. "It is definitely nec­essary to restore infrastructure in former East Germany." 
The United States, in the forefront of space plane re­search, is determined to go it alone, at least for now. 
The director of the National Aero-Space Plane program, Robert Barthelemy, expects it will cost $5 billion to $10 billion and take seven to nine years to build and test two X-30s. If testing goes well, and money and presidential approval are forthcoming, the first operational craft could be carrying people and cargo into orbit by 2003 or 2005. 
"What captures you about this is the ability for folks like you and I, in the year 2003, to go up to an airport, buy a ticket and fly into space, and doing that very affordably and routinely," Barthelemy said. 
WARNING: 
Failure to attend the Rankin MCAT course may be hazardous to your score. 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
10 STUDENTS PER CLASS 100 HOURS OF LIVE INSTRUCTION 50 HOURS OF LIVE TUTORIAL NATIONAL 800 TELEPHONE HELPLINE 3 COMPUTER-SCORED DIAGNOSTIC TESTS SCIENCE FLASH CARDS MATERIALS WRITTEN BY PH.D.S & M.D.S 
SOUTH BEND 273-1866 


page 4 The Observer Monday, January 20, 1992 
pressed support of the practice, Pritchard said that they want
St. Edward's residents not HPC according to Pritchard. to make the council more active 
However, Pritchard and and effective in dealing with 
allowed to attend meeting 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
Five St. Edward's Hall resi­dents were shocked to be told they could not attend the Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) meet­ing last Thursday. 
Interested in the issues raised by St. Ed's president Robert Pritchard and vice president Dave Jacobson in last Wednesday's edition of The Observer, the group decided to attend the meeting called in their dorm. "We decided to go essentially for moral support" for Jacobson, according to se­nior Ashok Rodrigues. 
As soon as the meeting started. an HPC member intro­duced a resolution to close the meeting, according to Hodrigues. Debate on the reso-
Assault 
continued from page 1 
attacker and struck by a large ceramic beer mug, which caused several gashes on his face and the loss of a tooth, Firtl said. The deep cuts to his face measured two inches and three-quar­ters of an inch. 
Police were called to the establishment at 2:53 a.m. The attacking student, a 19 year-old male, was delivered to the South Bend Police De­lution took place, but Rodrigues said neither he nor the others with him were allowed to speak. 
"We were never allowed to talk about why we were there, why we wanted to stay," he said. 
When the group was asked to leave, Jacobson asked Rodrigues to sit in for Pritchard, who was not present. HPC members protested this proposal, Rodrigues said, and the group left together. 
Upset at the treatment, Rodrigues and the four other students wrote a letter that ap­pears in today's edition of The Observer describing the events and their feelings. 
"Basically, we were upset for the attitude they had," Rodrigues said Sunday. "It was condescending." 
partment by the Notre Dame Security Department, Firtl said. 
The attacking student gave police a statement, but was released and not arrested, according to Firtl. 
The investigating agents will discuss the filing of for­mal charges against the at­tacking student early this week, according to Firtl. 
The police reported an "on-going problem between the victim and suspect" as the cause of the attack. 

Reduce, Reuse, Recycle. 
Thank you. 

The Observer has positions available for DAY EDITOR Contact Dannika at 239-7 4 71 or 283-4233 Must be available Monday or Friday Afternoons  
Join Little Professor for.--­NA'"fiONAL I~ 0 0 K WEEK JANUAI{Y 19-25, 1992 America's Annual Celebration of \Vriters, Books, and Reading ·--------------------------· Bring in this ad during \:ational Book Week to receive 10% OFF* • offer not valid on newspapers, magazines, or with ocher discounts. ~BLITTLE PROFESSORR ~~.~ OOKCENTE . Wt kip you find books you '11/oc·t. Ironwood Plaza North (ncar the new Martin's) Stale Road 23. South Bond. IN Mon.-Sat. 10 am -9 pm, Sun. 10 am-5 pm  

continued from page 1 
the meeting to non-members and to ban discussion of the meeting at its conclusion, ac­cording to Butrus. 
Saint Edward's entered the only dissenting vote. 
The ban on discussion is ac­tually a trust agreement, not an HPC rule, said McKeon. Members voted to close the meeting and impose restric­tions on discussion of the meeting in order to "prevent misrepresentation of what oc­cured at the meeting," said Pritchard. 
In order to preserve the con­ditions agreed upon at the start of the meeting, the council did not adjourn, but instead re­cessed, Pritchard said. The council then reconvened Saturday, again behind closed doors. 
HPC will meet again tomor­row at 6:30 p.m. in Lewis Hall. The first order of business will be to open the meeting to the public, according to James. The minutes of the prior meetings will be released to the public. 
The use of dorm funds for HPC meals was first addressed by Pritchard during the Dec. 3 meeting of the council. The council discussed the issue, but a majority of the presidents ex-Jacobson said they still believed the practice was improper, and decided to write the letter in order to spur more discussion and action. 
"I felt is was my duty to bring up the issue," Pritchard said. 
Supplying a meal at the meetings is a traditional but optional gesture. Most members agreed that each dorm's hall council should decide indi­vidually whether or not to pay for a post-meeting meal, James said. 
James said that the letter failed to point out that the meals for the two HPC meetings after Pritchard's initial com­plaint were approved by the dorm's councils. 
No resolution was presented to the council at the Dec. 3 meeting to deal with the issue concretely, Pritchard said. He and Jacobson will be presenting a resolution to the council Tuesday to abolish the use of dorm funds for the personal use of HPC members. 
Pritchard and Jacobson plan to deal with the use of dorm funds for HPC meals first be­cause it is the most concrete example of the problems with the organization and the coun­cil. 
Pritchard and Jacobson's true goals, however, are long-term. 
campus issues, and to make it more open to the students on campus. "HPC is necessary, and it can be both powerful and useful.·We would like to see an organization whose sole pur­pose is to help students at Notre Dame and to fulfill its own charter" as an open, service­oriented organization. 
The resolutions passed by the council have usually no power, said Jacobson. He said that with the exception of the cre­ation of programs such as Weekend Wheels, the resolu­tions have no force. 
The lack of effectiveness, however, is not something that can be solved by passing a number of resolutions, said Pritchard. The problem must be corrected by discussion within the council. 
Greater responsibility is needed among the members of the council, according to Pritchard. Although the HPC deals with tens of thousands of dollars and are called to repre­sent the residents of their dorms, a system of checks and balances is necessary to avoid abuses. 
Pritchard said he hopes that the council can deal with these problems without University or student government interven­tion, however. 

Welcome Back Student Special! 
Wendy's Single Combo features a Single lf4lb~ hamburger, small order of french fries and a regular size (16 oz.) soft drink. 
*Net weight before cooking. Bacon, cheese and tax extra. 


This Coupon Good For A 
$1.99 
SINGLE COMBO 
Valid only at Roseland Wendy's. Not valid with any other 
offer. Please present coupon when ordering. Bacon. cheese and tax extra. Coupon Expires January 31, 1992. 
Thebesthamburgersandawholelotmore: 
Coupon Good For A 


S1.99 
SINGLE COMBO 
Valid only at Roseland Wendy's. Not valid with any other 
Iter. Please present coupon when ordering. Bacon, cheese and tax extra. Coupon Expires January 31, 1992. 
Thebesthamburgers andawhole lot more: 
----------------------
~---------------------J 
REDEEM COUPONS AT 
320 DIXIE WAY SOUTH -ROSELAND 
Monday, January 20, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Arizonans observe King Day despite lack of state holiday 
PHOENIX (AP) -Arizona residents have joined in honor­ing Martin Luther King, Jr., but the ceremonies take on almost a desperate air in the only state without an official holiday for the slain civil rights leader. 
Many feel they're fighting an image of the state as a racist bastion. 
Public soul-searching over the state's attitude toward its tiny black minority has gone on for weeks. The prevailing defen­siveness was pushed to new heights last week by the release of a rap video that shows musi­cians assassinating state offi­cials over the lack of a holiday. 
"There's a stigma attached to us," said Jerry Colangelo, a business leader and co-owner of the Phoenix Suns basketball team. "Until we can pass a King holiday and put this behind us, we'll continue to get -if you'll excuse the pun -a bad rap." 
The controversy, which began in 1987 when then-Gov. Evan Mecham abolished a holiday for executive branch workers pro­claimed by his predecessor, has cost the state more than its im­age. 
The National Football League yanked the 1993 Super Bowl from Phoenix, depriving state businesses of an estimated $153 million. Since the holiday was rescinded, the state has lost nearly $160 million in con­vention business, said the Phoenix & Valley of the Sun Convention & Visitors Bureau. 
Efforts to restore the holiday through legislation and ballot initiatives failed, leaving Arizona the only state without some form of King-inspired civil rights holiday. The federal government and most states celebrate it today. 
New Hampshire doesn't honor King by name, but gives state workers a floating civil rights holiday. 

Voters here will face the issue again in November, in the form of a ballot measure that would make the third Monday in January a paid King holiday for state workers. 
To appease those who object to the cost of a new holiday, the measure would combine sepa­rate state holidays for Presidents Washington and Lincoln into a single Presidents Day the third Monday of February. 
More than 21 Arizona cities have King holidays and the weekend calendar is packed with commemorations of the civil rights leader, who was born Jan. 15, 1929 and assas­sinated April 4, 1968. 
The University of Arizona and Arizona State University honored King last week with candlelight vigils, speeches and celebrations of black contribu­tions to drama and the arts. 
Phoenix invited Rosa Parks, whose refusal to give up a bus seat to a white person spurred a King-led boycott in Montgomery, Ala., in 1955, to headline a breakfast. 
"It's going to be up to the people here to decide what they will do to bring about justice and good will and freedom for all the people," Mrs. Parks, 78, said later. 
Republican Gov. Fife Symington drew bipartisan ap­plause Monday when he told lawmakers a King holiday was a top priority. 
"Its success is crucial to achieving Arizona's promise of a future filled with peace and unity," Symington said. 
A recent poll found 58 per­cent of the state's voters would back a holiday, with 36 percent against it and 6 percent unde­cided. The Arizona State University poll of 511 voters was conducted Jan. 11-12 by telephone and has a margin of error of 4 percentage points. 
Many Arizona residents bris­tle at the suggestion that lack of a holiday means they are prejudiced against the state's 3 percent black population. And national attention to the issue makes some in the state defen­sive. 
A televised report that the NFL was planning to take away the Super Bowl was blamed for the defeat of a holiday ballot proposal in 1990. Black leaders worried that last week's much­publicized broadcast on MTV of the Public Enemy rap video "By the Time I Get to Arizona" would rekindle those feelings. 
"We're lucky we're not voting on this holiday next Tuesday," said the Rev. Oscar Tillman, who heads the Phoenix chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. 

-.11!!!1!1----------------~--------------------·­
page 6 
'Gag rule' legitimacy debated 
The Observer Monday, January 20, 1992 

The Observer/Garr Schwartz 

Braving the weather 
A jogger braves the chilly weather gripping the South Bend area to get some outdoor exercise. 
If what happened on your inside happened on your outside, would you still smoke? 
lith ANNUAL CELEBRATION! 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 

-7 nights­
•Depending on b<eak dates and length of stay 
By SANDY WIEGAND Associate News Editor 
A "gag rule" imposed by the Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) at a closed meeting last week is unconstitutional. said Hobert Pritchard and David Jacobson, president and vice president of St. Edward's Hall, but HPC co­chair Charlie James said the rule is permissible under Robert's Rules of Order. 
The "gag rule" prohibits HPC members from discussing the events of the special meeting last Thursday, but minutes and a recording of the meeting will be released Tuesday, James said. 
"I presume the HPC Constitution must fall below the Notre Dame Constitution and the United States Constitution, and a gag rule violates freedom of speech," Jacobson said. 
"(HPC's) sole purpose is to be responsible to the people who voted for us...not to be hiding things from them," Pritchard added. 
IIPC called the meeting to dis­cuss accusations Pritchard and Jacobson made in a letter that was printed in the Viewpoint section of The Observer Wednesday, James said. In the letter, the St. Edward's repre­sentatives characterized HPC's use of dorm funds to pay for dinners at their weekly meet­ings as irresponsible, and at­tacked the body's efficiency in general. 
The meeting was closed to prevent "misquotations," and "misparaphrasings," James 
said. Five St. Edward's Hall residents were told to leave the meeting, including one who was a delegate for Pritchard, who was out of town. 
According to the HPC Constitution, "In case of the absence of a president from a council meeting, his seat and vote may be delegated to a sub­stitute appointed by him from his hall." 
But Pritchard's delegate was asked to leave the meeting be­cause Pritchard did not write or telephone his permission, James said. 
The 1976 HPC Constitution states that "at the request of any member of the HPC and approved by two-thirds of the voting members of the council a closed meeting may be held." 
Plans to update the HPC Constitution are in the works, according to members. 
Although the HPC Constitution does not specifi­cally state that a gag rule is permissible, the body also fol­lows Robert's Rules of Order, James said, and the guide "says you can actually do just about anything you want if you have a two-thirds vote." 
But the rule is based on honor and cannot be enforced, Grace Hall President Keith McKeon said. 
HPC met again Saturday to continue discussion, Jacobson said. Since the group did not adjourn, but called a recess, Saturday's meeting was also closed. James said he antici­pates that the regular meeting Tuesday will be open to the public. 


OBCJAPAN 
BC English Conversation School is ffering full-time teaching positions 
beginning in July 1992. 
Excellent working conditions, 
benefits, and salary. 
Open to all majors. 
Career and Placement Services 
No one can guarantee your acceptance to medical school. But we can guarantee that you 'II score your highest on the MCAT. Our unique Test Your Best"' guarantee is your insurance policy. If you're not completely satisfied with your MCAT score, we'II let you repeat the entire course...at no charge' 
We offer expen live instruction, innovative home study materials, unlimited review in our TEST-N-TAPE,. labs and lots of personal attention. That's why Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared more test takers, and produced more top MCAT scores, than everyone else combined' 
!STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
For 01her locations call800-KAP-TEST 


Monday, January 20, 1992 The Observer page? 
Saddam admits Gulf War defeat 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) -tory. "A miracle was attained in suffering the effects of the trade Saddam Hussein admitted for this showdown. Faith tri­embargo imposed after Iraq the first time Friday that Iraq umphed over atheism and right invaded Kuwait Aug. 2, 1990. was militarily defeated in the triumphed over wrong," he Persian Gulf War, apparently said. "We are building today what seeking to whip up anti­The official Iraqi News the evil aggressors have de­Western sentiment in a popula­Agency, monitored in Nicosia, stroyed, and, with the help of tion devastated by war and carried the text of the speech, God, we shall heal the wounds economic sanctions. which included verses from the of our economy," he said. 
Koran, Islam's holy book. Iraq's newspapers, all tightly 
The Iraqi leader claimed al­controlled by the government, lies dropped 108,000 tons of The Iraqis permitted some carried front-page reports on bombs, a force he described as Western news organizations the worsening shortages suf­six times the destructive power into Baghdad for the anniver­fered by the Iraqis and de­of the two atomic bombs sary of the war's beginning, but manded the blockade be lifted. dropped on Japan in 1945. many, including The Associated 
The speech marked the first Press, were denied permission. The Security Council voted in time the Iraqi leader had said The news agency said in a September to allow Iraq to sell flatly that Iraq's military lost separate report that at first oil worth $1.6 billion to buy the 43-day war, which began light mosque preachers shouted food and medical supplies. Jan. 16, 1991, with air strikes Islam's battle cry of "Allahu Baghdad rejected the offer. on Baghdad and elsewhere. Akbar," or God is great, in In his speech, Saddam said 
memory of the war's victims. the coalition forces carried out 
Iraq's military was seriously The agency said pro-Saddam 114,000 air raids during the battered in the fight to oust demonstrations were held in war. The allies said they flew Baghdad from Kuwait, although Baghdad through the night. In 109,876 missions. post-war allied assessments the largest rally, thousands of "The destructive power of indicate the losses were demonstrators gathered outside these explosives was equal to considerably less than initially the Information Ministry and six nuclear bombs like those believed. denounced President Bush and which the Americans dropped 
"From a conventional and his allies, it said. on Hiroshima or Nagasaki," material standpoint ... the Washington has repeatedly Saddam said. gathering of the faithful was urged Iraqis to topple Saddam The atomic bombs had the defeated and the gathering of to bring the U.N.-sanctioned explosive power of 20,000 tons infidelity, vice and corruption economic embargo to an end. of TNT. U.S. officials have given triumphed," Saddam said in a The Iraqi leader, however, different estimates of the speech. promised better days ahead for amount of explosives used 
But he claimed a moral vic-his 17 million people, who are against Iraq. 

r.=~----------------------=-~~------------------­
ease support t e merican Red Cross 



% 

12 Month Certificate of Deposit 
Interest Paid at Maturity • $2,000 Minimum Deposit 
6.25% 

12 month IRA Certificate of Deposit Interest paid at maturity • $500 minimum deposit 
6.00% 

IRA Savings • Interest paid monthly • $100 minimum deposit 
Annual interest rates listed above are subject to change without notice. Substantial penalty for early withdrawal. Call today to see how you may qualify for credit union membership. 
0 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
(219) 239-6611 

Independent from the University of Notre Dame 
'foWICI'IID\111..SIII!;I1fllliiW'<I10JID000C 
NCUA 
JlcmoaaJC:..cfiiiJIIJOIIAcl.aUIIIIIU'IIOD 
CIUSeoo..ram-IIIAQeDn" 
The Observer/Garr Schwartz 

The long and straight road 
The road to Saint Mary's leads directly to the Notre Dame campus. Pedestrians are cautioned when traversing the route at night. 

~················································ 
: = BIBLE REVIVAL = : 
• 

CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY* *C. B.S. 
Inter Faith Bible Study Tuesday, January 21, 1992 and every Tuesday 
Meetings: 7:00 P.M. one hour sessions
• 

(bring your own Bible) in the Conference Room of 
Campus Ministry • Badin Hall 
Directed by: Fr. Al D'Alonzo, C.S.C. For additional information call: 239-6633 or 239-5955 
• 

. 150
CZ\MPUS M"'nl 
MIN/STR)!All are invited to attend • 

page 8 
Police find suicide note in assailant's apartment 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Stocking ·up 

Katherine Schenkelberg, a junior at Saint Mary's, stocks up her dorm room at Holy Cross Hall with some groceries from Martin's Supermarket in preparation for the cold winter days ahead. 
Countries cooperate to free kidnap victims 
The Observer 
NEWARK, N.J. (AP) -U.S., Australian and Russian author­ities teamed up to arrest 10 people accused of kidnapping two people near Moscow and trying to extort $1.6 million from their relatives in New Jersey, the FBI said Friday. 
The Australian couple were held eight days before the FBI, working with a former branch of the Soviet KGB and Australian federal police, dis­covered where they were being held, the FBI said in a state­ment. 
On Wednesday, Russian police raided a country dacha 30 miles outside Moscow, freeing the woman and arresting five people, the FBI said. Early Thursday, Russian authorities stormed a Moscow hotel room and released the businessman, arresting another five people, the FBI said. 

Authorities found them by monitoring phone calls made to relatives, the FBI said. 
Although authorities wouldn't identify the couple, a Philadelphia lawyer involved in the case said they are Daniel and Ivonny Weinstock. 
Dimitry Afanasiev, an associ­ate of the Philadelphia law firm Wolf, Block, Schorr & Solis­Cohen, said the businessman's company, SovAustralTechnika, was an Australian-Russian electronics firm. 
Israel Rayman of Wayne, N.J., a brother-in-law of the Australian businessman, con­tacted the FBI on Jan. 9 and said he had received two tele­phone calls the previous day from Weinstock, the agency said. 
Monday, January 20, 1992 
Weinstock told him that he and his wife were being held against their will and wouldn't be released unless $1.6 million was wired to an account at the Bank of Foreign Trade in Moscow, the FBI said. 
Afanasiev, whose firm has extensive Russian connections, said he established the com­munication links between the FBI and the Russian Agency for Federal Security, formerly a branch of the Soviet KGB. 
Authorities from the three countries pinpointed the vic­tims' location by monitoring subsequent calls the victim placed to Rayman over several days, the agency said. 
The 10 are in the custody of Russian authorities, who will prosecute them, FBI spokeswoman Monica Baldwin said. 
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) -A suicide note apparently written by a man killed with his 12­year-old hostage in a hail of po­lice gunfire is strong evidence he planned to die in a clash with law officers, authorities said Friday. 
The undated note by Bryan French appeared to be ad­dressed to his mother, said Deputy State Medical Examiner Karen Gunson. 
French, 20, was gunned down Thursday morning after he broke into a house and threat­ened to kill Nathan Thomas, 12, with a butcher knife. The child was fatally wounded in the head by the police gunfire. 
Police believe the note was written shortly before French set out on a brief crime spree that included another at­tempted break-in and vandal­ism, said police spokesman Sgt. Derrick Foxworth. 
Police found the four-page note Thursday night in a search of French's apartment. 
"I hope to die tonight," the note said, according to Gunson. 
She said the note also said, "I love you mom, it's not your fault." 
Gunson's office must rule whether French's death was a suicide. 
"The note is pretty good evi­dence of his intent to die," she said. 
Police went to the neighbor­hood about 3:30 a.m. Thursday after receiving a call about a burglary in progress. 
A police dog tracked French to a basement window that had been forced open at the home of pediatrician Greg Thomas, 38, and his wife, Martha McMurry, 45. 
Officers waited while the par­ents went upstairs to wake up their two children. McMurry found French in her son's bed and screamed. 
The parents and their other son, 8-year-old Benjamin, went into another bedroom as three officers at the foot of the stairs tried to talk French, who had moved out of the bedroom, into surrendering. 
"French was very irrational, very angry, and repeatedly threatened to kill the boy," Foxworth said. 
He said French, who was out of the officers' sight at the top of the stairs, shouted at the of­ficers about the suicide note and demanded an officer's gun. 
1\vo police officers outside the house fired at French through a window and missed. Foxworth said French then renewed his threat to kill the boy and began a countdown. 
"'Ten, nine, eight, seven, six,' and it was clear in those offi­cers' minds that he was in the process of killing the boy," Foxworth said. 
The three officers rushed up­stairs and fired at least 16 times, with 14 of the bullets hit­ting French and two hitting the boy. French died at the scene. The boy died three hours later at a hospital. 
Gunson said the autopsy showed no evidence the boy was cut by the knife. 
Assistant District Attorney John Bradley said a grand jury will decide whether the officers were justified in opening fire. Until then, they've been placed on administrative leave. 
French had a history of vio­lence and a police record in­cluding run-ins with Portland school police dating to 1983. He was last arrested Jan. 4 on a charge of menacing after he threatened a convenience store clerk, and he had been sched­uled to appear in court Thursday. 
ro-\....__r. ~~----1
·-;Turtle aiolliiiii\CreeK 
. -----------r-----. 

Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 
2/1 0 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1 &2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses 
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
272-8124 

~"' Esll "Jtt-~~ i Spanish Mass ~ 
Todos Estan lnvitados All Are Welcome 
Sunday, January 26 
10:00 a.m. 
Breen-Phillips Chapel 
Celebrante Rev. Timothy Scully, C.S.C. 
Sponsored by

-~ 
Ca~us Ministry

CAMPUS 
Office of inority Affairs

MNISTR>' 

----~------~------­
Business 
Monday, January 20, 1992 page 9 
Foreign trade deficit declines Recession weakens demand for imports 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The ties fell for a third straight trial output reflected in large nation's foreign trade deficit fell month in December, and for the part a huge decrease in utility to the lowest level in nearly entire year was down 1. 9 per­output because of warmer­nine years in November as ex­cent. than-normal weather in De­ports reached a record and the It marked the first time since cember. recession weakened demand for the recession year of 1982 that "The iHdustrial side of the imports, the government said industrial production had de­economy clearly has slipped Friday. clined. Some economists viewed back into a recession," said 
The trade deficit's decline to the string of declines in the Allen Sinai, chief economist of $3.57 billion was a dramatic fourth quarter as an ominous the Boston Co. "And the trade improvement, a huge 43.5 per­sign that the country has indeed report showed a big improve­cent decline that generally im­fallen back into recession. ment but not for the right rea­pressed analysts. But they said "If we ever got out of the re­sons." the bulk of the gain came from cession, we slipped back into it The November trade gap, the a steep drop in demand for im­in the fourth quarter and still lowest monthly imbalance since ports, reflecting the weak do­remain mired in an economic March 1983, was down from a mestic economy. downturn," said David Jones, October figure of $6.32 billion. 
In further evidence of the an economist with Aubrey G. American export sales edged hard times, a second report Lanston & Co. up 0.9 percent to a record high showed that output at the na­Some analysts noted that the of $37.46 billion, while import tion's factories, mines and utili-0.2 percent drop in total indus-demand dropped 5.5 percent. 
FCC will license two-way TV systems 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Two­taking applications in three to vision set. You also get a remote way television is coming to the six months and issue licenses by control. airwaves. the end of the year. When turned to the interac­
The Federal Communications The concept has been under tive channel, the television acts Commission (FCC) is allocating development for many years similarly to a computer loaded space near channel 13 for sys­and is used minimally by some with various programs. A menu tems that allow consumers to cable companies now. The on the screen offers educational shop, bank, pay bills, take FCC's action Thursday opens choices, shopping services, classes and do more through the public airwaves to the tech­news and sports, automatic their television, no telephone nology, making it available to banking, polling and pay-per­necessary. more people. view entertainment. 
TV Answer Inc., which peti­The spot among TV channels tioned the FCC for the ruling, is had been allocated to the mar­Your credit card number, ad­ready to go. It's "the next logi­itime telecommunications sys­dress and phone number are cal generation of advanced tem, which didn't use it. stored in the controller box, but television," said Fernando Basically, here's how the two­you also need a personal Morales, president of the Re­way system would work: identification number to get ac­ston, Va., firm. A controller box is hooked up cess to the services provided by 
The FCC says it will start to your VCR, cable box or tele-the system. 


The Center for Social Concerns 
CALENDAR OF EVENTS 
(For information:  239-5293)  
Jan. 21 -Tuesday 7:00 p.m. 7:00-10:00 p.m. Jan. 23 • Thur.;day 11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m.  Mexico Service Project/Seminar -Information Social Concerns Festival Hospitality Lunch for the benefit of Best Buddies Spring Brealc Seminar lnformaJion (One  Feb. 10 . Monday 7:00-8:30 p.m. Feb. 13 -Thursday 11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. Feb. 14 -Friday  Washington Seminar Orientation II Hospitality Lunch for Catholic Worker House  

credit Theology for each):  12:15-1:00 p.m.  Friday Forum for Faculty & Staff  
6:30-7:00  p.m.  Cultural Diversity Seminar (Chicago)  
7:00-7:30  p.m.  Washington, D.C. Seminar  Feb. 15 -Saturday  
7:30-8:00  p.m.  Appalachia Seminar  2:30-4:30  p.m.  Open House for Junior Parents Weekend  
Jan. 2~ · Friday  Christian Appalachian Project Information  Feb. 17-18-Mon.-Tues.  Inner City Teaching Corps -Interviews for those  
10:00 a.m.-Noon (Library Concour.;e)  who have applied  
1:00-5:00 p.m. (CSC)  Feb. 18 -Tuesday  
Jan. 27-28 -Mon.-Tues.  6:30-8:30 p.m.  Appalachia Seminar Orientation I  
~:30  p.m.  Meeting with representatives of senior class - 
planning for Send-Off C.:remony & Senior  Feb. 20 -Thursdav  'The Not for-profit Sector: Career & Volunteer  
Rap-Up Sessions  4:30-5:30  p.m.  •  Options" with Paula Cook. Career & Placement  
Jan. 28 -Tuesday  Service, & Mary Ann Roemer, CSC Coordinator  
7:00-7:30 p.m.  Summer Service Projects -Information Night  for Senior/Alumni Programs  
Feb. 22 -Saturday  
Jan. 29 ·Wednesday  CSC Seminar applications due  TBA  Conver.;ations with West Side Chicago Gang  
Covenant House Information  Members & Brother Bill Tomes (Followup  
10:00 a.m.-Noon -(Library Concourse)  on Urban Plunge)  
1:00-3:00 p.m. -(CSC)  Feb. 24 -Monday  
7:00-8:30 p.m.  Washington Seminar Orientation ill  
Jan. 31 · Friday  Friday Forum for Faculty & Staff-Theme:  
12:15-1:00 p.m.  "Sesquicentennial Year: Notre Dame and  Feb. 25 -Tuesday  
the Social & Ethical Issues of an Inter­ 6:30-8:30  p.m.  Appalachia Seminar Orientation II  
dependent & Teclmological World"  
Mar. 4. Wednesday  t\sh Wednesday -Lent Begins  
Jan. 31-Feb. 2  Social Concerns Forum (A Center for Social  4:30p.m.  Community Service Commissioners Meeting  
Friday-Sunday  Concerns Sesquicentennial Event in  
collaboration with the Notre Dame Alumni  Mar. 5 ·Thursday  
Association) at Fatima Retreat Center.  4:30 p.m.  Community Service Commissioner.; Meeting  
Feb. 3 -Monday  
7:00-8:30  p.m.  Washington Seminar Orientation I  Mar. 8 -Sunday  Semester Break Seminars begin:  
Cultural Diversity Seminar (Chicago)  
Feb. 5 ·Wednesday  Washington, D.C. Seminar  
4:30 p.m.  Community Service Commissioners Meeting  Appalachia Seminar  
7:00-7:30 p.m.  Summer Service ?rejects -Information Night  
Mar. 19-Thursday  "God's Love Experienced in Community:  
Feb. 6 -Thursday  7:30 p.m.  Reflections by Henri Nouwen & Companions  
4:30 p.m.  Community Service Commissioners Meeting  (Library Auditorium)  of L'Arche & Enunaus Communities"  
Feb. 7 -Friday  Selections posted for Spring Break Seminars  
Summer Service Projects application deadline  


------------------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Viewpoint 
page 10 Monday, January 20 , 1992 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief 
Kelley Tuthill 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor .....•................. Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor •...••............ Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ••..•••...•....David Dieteman Production Manager .••......... Jay Colucci Accent Edltor ..•................. John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor .••........ Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ................•.... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ..........•. Emily Willett Controller ....•....•.••.......• Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Hall president recants accusations against HPC 
Dear Editor: would be permitted to address was not a personal check. We information regarding alleged Rob only voiced his concern 
On Wednesday, Jan. 15 we, the issues brought up and re­were irresponsible for not mishandling from residents of about this issue with the inten­Robert Pritchard, president of tract and apologize for any er­verifying that the check was only two dorms. Also, this quote tion of drafting a formal resolu­St. Edward's Hall and David Ja­roneous information in the let­actually accepted, and for this was not attributed to any tion. cobson, vice-president of St. Ed­ter. We feel it is our duty to re­we apologize. individual, as was evident by Confusion about what, in fact, ward's Hall, had a letter con­tract the erroneous information, The second concern was over our wording, "Most discussions this resolution would entail re­cerning certain activities occur­as we do not want any miscon­the statement "rumor has it went something like this ..." sulted in our decision to not ring within the Hall Presidents' ceptions about our underlying that some presidents bought the The final two issues discussed present a resolution at the next Council (HPC) printed in The message. shirt with -you guessed it -at the meeting resulted from meeting. However, we now feel Observer. The first error concerned our dorm money." This rumor our improper wording. Due to confident that such a resolution 
The next evening a special statement that "recently, at originated from within HPC poor sentence structure in our can be reasonably discussed, session of IIPC was held to least one president paid his itself, and that is why it was letter, it appeared to some that and we will now introduce such discuss the content of the letter. activities fee [for social included in our letter. This the letter of apology from the a proposal this month. The meeting was closed to all gatherings] with a check from rumor is false, and we head of AnTostal to HPC In conclusion, we sincerely non-HPC members, and the dorm's account." At the apologize for printing it. concerned falling short of apologize for any errors or members were prohibited from December 1Oth HPC meeting The next misunderstanding fundraising goals. In fact, the misunderstandings. We believe discussing the contents of the held at Knott Hall, Rob arose from the use of quotes letter apologized for offending the issues raised in last week's meeting outside the witnessed one president with a when paraphrasing information HPC members in an earlier letter will be addressed by HPC. organization. This was done to dorm check for ten dollars presented to us by students meeting, and attempted to prevent misrepresentation of made out to HPC. After the from several dorms concerning improve relations between the Robert Pritchard what occurred at the meeting. special session, we were their president's discussion at two organizations. President 
During the meeting, members informed that this check was hall council meetings over the Finally, we stated in our letter David Jacobson of IIPC found passages within indeed turned in for the use of dorm funds for HPC that Rob presented a resolution Vice-President the letter that were in error. voluntary social fee, but that it dinners. concerning the use of dorm St. Edward's Hall It was then agreed that we Was not accepted because it In fact, we received such funds for HPC dinners. In fact, Jan.18,1992 
Students question HPC's 'aloof and secretive' attitude 
Dear Editor: Concerned over the organiza­nessed was a blizzard of As if this weren't enough of We could not understand the 
"We consider it our duty to tion's appropriation of student "parliamentary procedure." As an attempt to stifle dissent, the reasoning behind HPC's action. functin as a center through •money, we went to the meeting soon as the meeting started, a body then refused to even let us If they truly intend to represent which any organization or indi­on Thursday. The meeting was resolution was proposed to keep speak about why we thought we the students, why don't they lis­vidual wishing to address the apparently moved up a week to all people who were not should stay, to say nothing of ten to what students want to Notre Dame Campus Commu­handle the criticism resulting members of HPC out of the our concerns over the topic they say? nity may channel information .. from a letter to Viewpoint by St. room. were there to discuss. Ap­
Edward's hall president Rob They decided only an official parently, Robert's Rules and the Spending thousands of dollars 
This mandate, taken from the Pritchard. account of the meeting would HPC constitution only apply of students money specifically preamble of the Hall Presidents' be released. No member would when the chairmen want them on themselves is in itself Council constitution presents a Although from the HPC Con­be allowed to speak of what to. The resolution was rail­upsetting. The aloof and secre­curious dilemma. Why, if this is stitution the chair is supposed happened if they differed from roaded through, and we were tive attitude taken by the ma­the case, does HPC act as an to set an agenda, all we wit-this majority-approved account. told to leave. jority of HPC members is even 

A KlfJ... MAN, lH/5 CffANGt5 &VCRY­THING1 &VeRYTHIN6! 
\ 
}: W [}{eQ< OUT5CH(}(}L5.1 I've 
••· GOT TV GCTt!ff31NSU!<JJNCE3-' 

rvtGOT 
G&T NOJ<JJSH. 
TOGa.. A UF/3.
a/HAT, /AJ&HAV&
G&T. .. 

13.{}.? 'TIL-MAY.
I \ I \ 
'The American National Government should be destoyed annually.' 
James Walter Banner 

Say you want a revolution? submit: 
QUOTES, P 0. Box Q, ND. IN 46556 
----------·---------------------------·~--A------------------------­
•
Accent 
Monday , January 20, 1992 page 11 
Amember of the controversial coalition reflects on their progress, one year later 


By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH 
Accent Writer 
About 30 years ago, Martin Luther King, Jr. shared a dream with the American people-a dream that was to promote peace, equality, and unity. 
Last year, Students United for Respect (SUFR) commemorated this man's birthday by sharing its own dreams with the Notre Dame community. On January 21, 1991, this coalition of students presented a formal list of demands to Patricia O'Hara, vice president for Student Activities, in an attempt to enrich the cultural diversity of the University. 
Yolanda Knight, one SUFR member, looks back on the year with mixed feelings. She said that she feels that while SUFR achieved many of their goals, they still have a long way to go. 
ethnic groups in number isn't necessarily a definition of diversity," Knight explained. 
"We accomplished this (goal), I think," she added. "People are not walking around clueless (about cultural issues)." 
Judging from personal experience, Knight said that on an individual level she has noticed a slight difference in student attitude towards ethnic groups. "People are more careful; I don't know if that can be translated into respect," she said. "People are more curious, more willing to talk." 
A series of confrontations between SUFR and the administration vividly illustrate the group's desire to arouse the University. 
Meetings with O'Hara, a demonstration during a board of trustees meeting, and a sit-in at the registrar's office to gain attendance with Malloy were among 
--------------SUFR's attempts to "shake the Knight explains that this par­administration," said Knight.
'...It is ironic that 25 or 30

ticular date was chosen to pre­"We wanted to wake them up so 
sent the demands "because it is years later we are still they would ... change policy to ironic that 25 or 30 years later fighting for the same accommodate the needs of we are still fighting for the traditionally underrepresented ethnic same thing." thing.' groups," she added. 
After a year-long struggle to -Yolanda Knight gain recognition and respect, One way in which the organization 
the group awaits the outcome of the newly established task force that was formed by University President Edward Malloy to review multiculturalism on campus. 
The findings of the task force's examination may de­termine the future needs and goals of the student organization, according to Knight. 
When this group of students frrst joined forces, they brought a wave of controversy to the campus. While members of the organization maintained that they stood for improvement and progression, some individ­uals outside the group questioned SUFR's unconventional tactics. 
In an attempt to pressure the University to make the changes that the coalition deemed necessary, SUFR adopted three primary goals: heightening awareness, "waking up" the administration, and pushing for their demands, said Knight. 
Cultural awareness includes informing the campus that "an increase in traditionally underrepresented 
was able to make an impression on the administration was through their final goal of presenting their demands. 
SUFR demands included: fighting for a discriminatory harassment policy, pushing for a multicultural center, increasing minority faculty, reforming the financial aid program, increasing funding for ethnic organizations on campus, and improving the ethnic studies program. 
Knight said that she felt these demands were the best method available to achieve the greatest amount of cultural diversity. 
When the administration failed to address minority concerns to the extent that SUFR said they felt necessary, the group decided to take further action. 
Demanding open negotiation with Malloy, 60 students participated in a one-day sit-in on Wednesday, April 17, 1991. 
The group chanted "What do we want?... Respect. When do we want it? ... Now," and carried signs that read, "God is not color-blind," according to an Observer staff report on April 18. The students left the office 12 hours later with future negotiations with the University planned. 
"Some students say that we should have stayed longer to get something more concrete from them (the administration)," said Knight, but she added that she could make no opinion herself until she saw some results from the task force. 
Knight called the sit-in "definitely" the most challeng­ing aspect of participating in SUFR last year. 
Many students who took part in the demonstration feared the possible consequences, but Knight said that even if she would have been expelled, it would have been worth it to make her point. 
"I was afraid," she said, "but when you stand up for something you really feel is right, you will be taken care of by a higher authority." 
In addition to forcing the University to listen to SUFR's opinion, Knight said that the sit-in was important to "increase a feeling of community among ethnic students on campus." 
SUFR's efforts came together on Tuesday, April 30 when the University recognized the coalition as an official student organization. 
Today, the organization faces a question of where to go from here. 
"We have no concrete plans," said Knight. "We are looking to see what happens with the task force ... we will have a more sound judgement at the end of the year." 
Now that group recognition has finally been secured, the group has maintained a relatively low profile. 
Ethnic students are shifting focus explained Knight; individuals are choosing to turn attention inward towards their own communities. 
During SUFR's first year of existence, the group has issued a dramatic challenge. While Knight said that many attitudes on campus have improved, she maintains that there is much work still to be done. 
Knight said she finds inspiration in the ideals and dreams of King and the entire civil rights movement. 
"We have our groundwork laid for us by our ancestors," she said. "They did it-so can we." 

Bulls squeak by Pistons in Palace
• 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. (AP) -It 
Parish, who returned from a Hornacek scored the last four 
was what Chicago vs. Detroit is 
two-game absence with a points of the game as the 
all about. It was Michael Jordan 
twisted ankle and went over the Phoenix Suns won their seventh 
soaring and scoring. It was 
20,000-point career mark as straight by beating the Portland 
flying bodies, flagrant fouls and Trail 132-128 on
Boston defeated Philadelphia on Blazers 
noise. Playoff intensity in Sunday.
Friday night, outdueled the 
January. 
Spurs' David Robinson in a Portland's Clyde Drexler had 
And when it was over, the 
matchup of old and young cen­39 points and grabbed 11 re­
Bulls had continued their domi­
ters. bounds, but cost his team a fi­
nance over the Pistons as 
nal chance to win when he was 
Jordan scored seven of his 34 
Parish, 38, the eighth player called for traveling with 2.5 
points in the last 2:22 for an 87­
in NBA history with 20.000 seconds left. 
85 victory on Sunday. 
points and 10,000 rebounds, Tom Chambers scored a sea­
The Bulls extended their 
also had 14 rebounds while son-high 36 points for the Suns 
overall winning streak to nine 
playing 37 minutes. Robinson, before fouling out with 2:09 
games and have defeated the 
26, had 21 points and nine re­remaining in overtime. 
Pistons seven consecutive times, 
bounds in 36 minutes. Hornacek had 28 points and 
including a four-game sweep 
Majerle added 27. 

last spring in the Eastern 
Conference finals. The loss 
Robinson gave the Spurs a BUCKS 108, MAGIC 98 
snapped Detroit's five-game 
4 7-39 lead with a tip in in the MILWAUKEE-Moses Malone
winning streak. 
opening seconds of the second and Dale Ellis scored 19 points
half. Later, trailing 51-44, 
each and led a fourth-quarter
What they had to do, in the 
Boston went on a 20-6 surge, 
surge Sunday, sending the
face of 21.454 partisan fans in 
outscoring the Spurs 37-22 in 
Milwaukee Bucks to a 108-98
The Palace, was play tight de­
the quarter to take a 76-67 lead 
victory over the Orlando Magic. 

fense. Detroit held a slim 46-44 
into the final period. 

Ellis had nine points in the
rebounding edge; the Bulls shot 
fourth quarter and Malone six
45 percent. holding the Pistons 
HAWKS 119, NUGGETS 93 
as the Bucks erased a five-point
to 40 percent. 
DENVER-Kevin Willis scored 
deficit.

Scottie Pippen scored 17 
15 of his 2 5 points in the first 
The loss was Orlando's 21st
points for Chicago and John 
quarter, helping Atlanta build a 
in 23 games and dropped the
Paxson added 15. 
20-point lead as the Hawks 
Magic to 8-29. Terry Catledge 
Orlando Woolridge, who has 
breezed to a 119-93 victory 
had 22 points for the Magic and
helped Detroit win 13 of 17 
over the Denver Nuggets on 
Scott Skiles scored 20. 

since joining the starting lineup, 
Sunday. 

Orlando led 76-71 after three
scored 18 for the Pistons. 
quarters but the Bucks finally
It was the first meeting of the 
regained the lead on a basket
Bulls and Pistons at The Palace The Hawks were 14-for-20 
~ -----~-----­
Monday, January 20, 1992 
since last spring, when the Bulls swept Detroit out of the playoffs. 
The Bulls are 18-0 when 
holding an opponent under 100 
points. The Bulls are 2-0 
against the Pistons this season. 
They beat Detroit 110-93 on 
Nov. 12 at Chicago. 
The Bulls improved their 
league-best record to 33-5, in­
cluding 15-3 on the road-also 
best in the league. 
CELTICS 98, SPURS 89 
BOSTON -Robert Parish scored 30 points, including 11 in Boston's 37-point third quarter as the Celtics rallied against San Antonio. 
The Celtics, again playing without injured Larry Bird and Kevin McHale, also got 24 points from Reggie Lewis and 22 from Kevin Gamble, while veteran John Bagley directed the third-period outburst with five assists and five of his seven points. 
from the field in the first quar­ter as they used a 32-8 run to turn a 12-8 deficit into a 40-20 lead. 
Blair Rasmussen, traded by Denver to the Hawks at the end of last season, was 8-for-10 and had 18 points in his return to McNichols Sports Arena. Dominique Wilkins contributed 16 points. 
Denver's Marcus Liberty hit 11 of 19 for a career-high 23 points and had 11 rebounds. Dikembe Motombo also had 23 points, but the only other Denver player in double figures was Reggie Williams with 13. 
The victory was the first in three games for Atlanta on its current six-game road trip, and boosted its record to 20-18. Denver dropped to 15-23. 
SUNS 132, TRAIL BLAZERS 128 
PHOENIX-Dan Majerle and Jeff Hornacek hit consecutive 3­pointers early in overtime and 
and two free throws by Jeff 
Grayer and a jumper by Ellis. 
The short spurt made it 84-80 
with 7:22 remaining. 

Malone kept the lead at four 
with a basket and then Ellis 
made his second 3-pointer of 
the final period, putting the 
Bucks ahead 91-84 with 3:48 to 
go. 
But Orlando came back on 
Catledge's basket and four free 
throws by Skiles, the last two 
coming after an elbow foul on 
Ellis with 2:43 to go. That cut 
the Bucks lead to 93-91. 
Lester Conner, who had seven points in the final period, scored for the Bucks. The Magic missed at the other end and Malone made two free throws with 1:51 remaining, stretching the lead back to six. Jay Humphries, Ellis and Conner then made one free throw each for a 100-91 advantage with 
just over a minute to play. 
Jerry Reynolds scored 11 points in the second quarter as Orlando took a 48-44 halftime lead. Milwaukee shot only 34 percent in the first half, making just 19 of 55 shots. 

AP Photo Boston Celtics center Robert Parrish is trapped in a earlier contest against the Washington Bullets. Parrish led the Celtics past the Spurs yesterday with 30 points. 
Tomba earns 26th World Cup 
KITZBUEHEL, Austria ­
Alberto Tomba won a slalom 
Sunday for his 25th World Cup 
victory, while Paul Accola in­
creased his overall World Cup 
lead despite finishing fifth. 
Tomba, the flamboyant 
Italian who had never before 
won at Kitzbuehel, won his 
fourth slalom of the season to 
go along with two giant slalom 
victories. Tomba, who also has 
three seconds and two thirds 
in 11 races, was fastest in both 
heats, finishing in 46.38 sec­
onds and 49.09 for a total time 
of 1:35.47. 
"So many years I was 
second here," Tomba said. 
"The Italians have not won 
here for 17 years." 
Patrice Bianchi of France was second in 1:36.85, followed by Armin Bittner of Germany (1:37.14). Hubert Strolz of Austria (1:37.33) and Accola (1 :37 .40). 
Accola's fifth place together with his 30th-place finish in Saturday's downhill allowed him to win the combined event and gain 100 overall points. He has 1,090 points in the overall World Cup standings. 
Tomba, who skips speed events, didn't compete in downhill and is second in the overall standings with 960 points. Marc Girardelli of Luxembourg, the defending overall World Cup champion, is third with 599. 
Tomba leads the slalom standings with 620 points. Accola is second with 428 fol­lowed by Finn Christian Jagge of Norway with 426. 
Bianchi was overjoyed by his second-place finish. 
The Observer accepts ctassitieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
CUSTOMIZED WORD PROCESSING Reports/resumes/letters. 271-1618. 
NEED EXTRA MONEY? Men and Women needed to substitute for news carriers. Call Kathy 4026 
ALTERATIONS AND DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL 259·8684. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082. 
LOST/FOUND 
FOUND: gold/brass earring medium sized, hook goes through your earring hole type, hanging kind of tear drop shaped with a thing in the middle (hard to describe) Found it in front of the library right before break CALL 288-9421 if this sounds familiar 
Found: PHYSICS textbook in Stephan lot. 277·6875 
LOST: GOLD & SILVER 500 LIRA COIN PENDANT BEFORE BREAK. NOT WORTH MUCH BUT I WILL PAY$ TO GET IT BACK. 283-3987. 
Found: a red scarf from NDE 4th Day at St. Ed's on Wednes­day, January 15. Please call Andrea at x2928. 
LOST 8 in. men's gold rope bracelet at Senior Bar Thur. Night call Chris Burke x4057 
WANTED 
$350.00/DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. 
Spring Break to Florida Beaches Energetic Promoter needed. Earn FREE trips and CASH. Call CMI at 1·800·423-5264. 
SALES OPPORTUNITY -Motivated tor independenct;t and 30% commission? The right time :s NOW (317) 782-8907. 
TEACHERS NEEDED The Ronkin Educational Group is looking for highly qualified instructors for air LSAT, GMAT, GRE, and MCAT prep courses. Part time Work/Flexible hours/Good salary. Please call 273-1866. 
The Ronkin Educational Group is seeking part-time student workers tor a unique grad. school prep. company. Many different postions available. Flexible Hours/ Good salary. Please call 273·1866. 

$40,000/YR! READ BOOKS and TV Scripts. Fill out simple "like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun, relaxing at home, beach, vacations. Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 Hour Recording 801-379-2925 Copyright #IN11 KEB 
YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK TO LIVE! DO IT RIGHT! SPRING BREAK IN JAMAICNCANCUN, FROM $429! INCLUDES HOTEL, AIR, TRANSFERS. SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426­7710. 
Actor needs photographer for b/w head shots. 2354 
FOR RENT 
HOUSE FOR RENT. $150/MO. WALK TO CAMPUS. CALL PAUL 287-2159. 
6 OR 7 BEDROOM HOME NEAR CAMPUS.SECURITY SYSTEM.FOR FALL 1992. 272­6306 
TWO FURNISHED HOMES NEAR CAMPUS... SECURITY SYSTEM ... WASHER & DRYER... 4 BEDROOMS... 10 MO. LEASE... 4 OR 5 STUDENTS ... DEPOSIT REQUIRED... 259·7801 OR 255­5852 FOR MORE INFO! 
FOR SALE 
Favorite 8 Football Recipes of a Notre Dame Cook. $3. 
M.Sisk, 2741 S. 3rd, Niles, Ml 49120. 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50, 87 MERCEDES $100, 65 MUSTANG $50. Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Details 801·379-2929 Copyright# 1N11KJC 
TICKETS 
NEED TIX FOR MICH·ND B·BALL. X3926 
JOHN COUGAR monday jan 27 great seats cheap 1167 or 2845404 
PERSONAL 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289·1993. Office near campus. 
SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER VACATIONS! Jamaica, Bahamas including airfare, great hotel, and much more from only $599. Buy from the #1 name you trust for quality vacations. FOUR SEASONS 1·800·331-3136. 
Monica Eigelberger is no longer a ho. But Sara Marion is. 
Hey Monica, I have something from my weekend journey for you. Give me a call sometime dork, or else. FL (not horny, OK!!!!) 
sunkist, enjoy the white stuff, but don't leave the powder on your nose 
Rocky, Thanks for an awesome weekend. Sorry you got your tubes tied on Saturday. Better luck next time. Love, Pothead 
LOOKING FOR A FEW GOOD MEN to do your housework? Then call NAKED HOUSE CLEANERS at 272·6392 tor service. We feature young attractive men who are relatively disease-tree and who copulate like tigers. Featuring Tim on vacuuming, John on dishes, Beef on dusting and Rich on linens. Call now tor a free estimate. 
Attention women of Farley Hall: Pop Farley Week has begun! Don't miss GAME NIGHT tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Middle Room. 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1·800-878-3696. 
FAX MAGS Fax your Mac docume11i:; for $1 page. free campus pick-up of your disk. Call Michael at 237-1864. 

Candles, Food.. Marvin, TV, ....... what more could you want???????? 
ATIENTION: To anyone who has said "Ballroom dancing · I've always wanted to do that!" Now's your chance! Classes begin Thursday Jan 23 at Stepan Center from 8:00· 

9:30 pm. We'lllearn the tango and 3 other new dances. No partner or experience is needed. Give it a try · you know you want to. 
Congratulations, Emily Willett, on your engagement. Looks like you'll get that MRS. degree after all. Just kidding. Yuk Yuk. Best wishes, Your friends at The Big 0. 

A SUMMER JOB YOU'LL LOVE! Coed Massachusetts camp, 3 hrs. Boston/NY City. Super kids, great food, friendly atmosphere. 100+ staff: tennis, lifeguard, WSI, arts/crafts, all land/water sports, fitness, gymnastics, piano/play tor shows, drama, judo, dance, archery, photography, computers, rocketry, guitar, radio, video, yearbook, newspaper, wilderness, woodwork, AN, more! 6/20-8/22. Call/write CAMP EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd., Eastchester, NY 10707. 800/955-CAMP. 
Monday, January 20, 1992 The Observer page 13 
Hot McEnroe keeps his cool, wins big Seles, Sabatini advance on women's side 
MELBOURNE, Australia-Even in the most maddening moment -a bad call on match point ­John McEnroe kept his mouth shut. 
Suddenly not so crazy after all these years, McEnroe couldn't have been prouder of the self-control that led to his five-set, nearly five-hour victory Sunday against Emilio Sanchez on the Aus~alian Open's siz­zling center urt. 
It was exa tly two years to the day that McEnroe was ejected for a cursing, racket­tossing tantrum. This time, two days after upsetting defending champion Boris Becker, he reached the quarterfinals with­out a peep, brandishing only the wizardry of his strokes and the quickness and stamina of his youth. 
He fended off three match points, endured 124-degree courtside heat, and persevered to win 7-5, 7-6 (7-4}, 4-6, 2-6, 8-6 on his sixth match point after 4 hours, 41 minutes. But none of that was more impor­tant, none of it would have been possible, without his new-found ability to keep quiet and stay focused. 
Jim Courier, the No. 2 seed, played in the same heat on a court buffeted by strong, warm breezes early Monday, and escaped with a much easier vic­tory, 6-3, 6-1, 6-3, over un­seeded Marc Rosset to reach the quarters. 
Courier watched the McEnroe match in awe of their struggle, but didn't envy miss­ing the drama of a long five­setter. 
"My legs are very happy to sneak through in straight sets," Courier said, adding that he'd love to play McEnroe in this tournament. "Absolutely. That'd mean I'm in the final." 
Fellow American Aaron Krickstein yielded to heat ex­haustion and nausea, quitting at 6-2, 4-6, 1-6, 7-6 (7-4}, 4-1 against Israeli Amos Mansdorf. Krickstein had one of the best records in five-setters, 22-6, before the match, and had beaten Mansdorf in the four of their five meetings. 
By the end of this match, though, both players were sag­ging in the heat, exchanging weak groundstrokes. On the changeover after the fifth game of the fifth set, the 24-year-old Krickstein slumped into his chair and told the umpire he couldn't go on. Mansdorfs next opponent is Courier. 
No. 4 Michael Stich, the Wimbledon champion, said he was thankful for a mid-after­noon cloud cover that reduced the heat a bit as he came back to beat popular Australian Wally Masur 3-6, 6-4, 7-6 (7-5}, 6-4. 
The effect of the heat on the younger players made McEnroe's performance that much more impressive. 
If ever McEnroe was going to unleash his infamous temper in this match, it would have been on the third of his six match points in the fifth set, when an obviously long serve by Sanchez flew by for an ace. 
"I was very happy with my­self," said McEnroe, who merely walked to the spot where he saw the ball hit, pointed at it with his racket, then returned in silence to the baseline. ''I'd gone so far that, at that point, to blow it would've been a big disap­pointment, even though I knew the ball was out. Not only was it long, it was wide. 
"But at the same time, I fig­ured I still had a chance to win the game, so I didn't want to get negative. And I really didn't have the energy, to be perfectly honest, to get involved in it. My energy was so limited at that point. I'd played over four hours. so for me to explode would've been absurd." 
McEnroe led 5-4, 0-40 in the fifth set and wasted two match points before that ace at 30-40, which Sanchez also said looked "more out than good." 
His opportunity gone, McEnroe lost the game and nearly the match. Yet he fought on with all the grit he showed when he won the last of his four 
U.S. Opens and three Wimbledons in 1984. He played much more like the No. 1 he was then, than the No. 28 he is now. 
Sanchez, the No. 13 seed, obliged by blowing two match points at 40-15 in the 12th game with a double-fault and a wildly mis-hit forehand. A drop volley gave Sanchez a third chance, but he failed again to cash in when he tapped a back­hand volley into the net. 
The tension mounting with each stroke, McEnroe grabbed the advantage with another mis-hit forehand by Sanchez, then broke him back when Sanchez dumped a forehand into the net. 

McEnroe easily held service to 7~6 with a delicate and gutsy forehand drop volley at 40-15, then jumped on Sanchez's serve to take a 0-30 lead with a backhand volley on the second point. Sanchez netted an easy backhand to give McEnroe two more match points, but the first was wasted with a backhand into the net on a passing attempt. 
Sanchez, who started the match clean-shaven and had a black beard by the end, saved his fifth match point with a backhand pass crosscourt. McEnroe finally ended the in­credible duel on his sixth match point with a forehand into the corner and down the line that Sanchez couldn't come near. 
"I thought I had the match in my hands, and suddenly he won it," Sanchez said. "Everything was too fast. I had my chance to win and I didn't take it." 
Said McEnroe: "In the end, it was sort of a crapshoot. I was basically in a survival mode." 
McEnroe's tongue lolled out of his mouth as he walked to the net to shake hands and wrap his arms around Sanchez's neck in an affection­ate hug. 
"At times in the past there's been some sort of misunder­standings between us, McEnroe said. "The best part about today was that we played tennis, and didn't get involved in anything besides playing great tennis. To me, it was sort of like starting over in a sense. He's a great competitor and one of the biggest fighters in the game. 
"It was a situation where a handshake wasn't sufficient." 
Exhausted, though not too much to display a bit of humor, McEnroe dropped to the court and lay sprawled flat on his back for a half-minute as the crowd laughed and cheered. 
McEnroe spent the next half­hour on the trainer's table, his arm attached to a drip of rehy­dration solution and his right knee packed in ice to treat his tendinitis. 
McEnroe nearly won the match in three sets, just as he had against Becker. He ruled the net with his quickness, touch volleys and overheads in 
g"~=============================================d"g 


Applications are now being accepted for the position of 
Editor-in-Chief 1992-93 
Anyone interested in applying should submit a resume and a personal statement not exceeding five pages to Kelley Tuthill by 5 p.m., Friday, January 24, 1992. 
Further information is available from Kelley Tuthill at The Observer, 239-7471. 
=rr=========================================================,~
Cu nC 

AP Photo Monica Seles, shown here at the Houston Virginia Slims tournament last year, defeated Leila Meskhi 6-4, 4-6, 6-2 to advance in the 
Wednesday against unseeded South African Wayne Ferreira, who beat David Wheaton 6-7 (3-7}, 6-4, 6-2, 6-2. 
Stefan Edberg, the top seed, celebrated his 26th birthday by beating Andrei Chesnokov 6-1, 7-5, 6-2. Edberg goes next against Ivan Lendl, the fifth seed, who beat Omar Camporese 7-6 (7-4}, 6-1, 6-3. 
In women's play, No. 1 Monica Seles beat Leila Meskhi 6-4, 4-6, 6-2, No. 3 Gabriela Sabatini beat Katerina Maleeva 6-1, 7-5, No. 4 Arantxa Sanchez Vicario beat Larisa Savchenko 6-1, 7-6 (8-6}, No. 5 Jennifer Capriati beat No. 11 Zina Garrison 6-4, 6-4, No. 9 Manuela Maleeva-Fragniere beat Conchita Martinez 6-4, 2­6, 6-2, and No. 12 Anke Huber upset last year's runner-up, No. 6 Jana Novotna, 5-7, 7-6 (7-5}, 6-4. 
If you see news happening, call 239-5303 and let us know. 
The Observer 
the first two sets, virtually forcing Sanchez to change his tactics and venture away from the baseline. 
"He was fighting a lot, keep­ing the pressure on me all the time," Sanchez said. "I had to be more aggressive." 
McEnroe's Zen-like concen­
tration impressed and sur­
prised Sanchez as much as it 
did Becker. 

"Even when he had bad calls, he focused on the match," Sanchez said. "If he behaves like he did to today I think it's great for sports." 
As Sanchez attacked more in 
the third set, McEnroe began to 
wilt, suddenly showing the six­
year age difference against the 
26-year-old Spaniard. 
Sanchez, trailing 3-2 in the 
third set, held, then broke 
McEnroe to 4-3 as McEnroe 
wearily hit an indifferent back­
hand wide. 

The fourth set turned into a rest stop for McEnroe, who seemed to drift through it while awaiting his chance in the fifth set. Sanchez broke McEnroe at love in the first game of the fourth set in the middle of a nine-point run, and ended the set with his ninth ace. 
But at the critical moment in the fifth set, the place where McEnroe created tennis history in matches against Bjorn Borg, Jimmy Connors, Becker and other great players, he reached deep inside and found the strength to win. 
"At the start of the fifth set, I 
knew he was going to fight 
harder," Sanchez said. "He was 
really tired, but he has so much 
talent." 

McEnroe next plays on 

page 14 The Observer Monday, January 20, 1992 
Cook wins Hope Classic after four hole-five man playoff 
BERMUDA DUNES, Calif. ­John Cook's chip-in tlagle on the fourth extra hole proved to be the winning shot Sunday in the Bob Hope Classic. 
Cook's 100-foot chip-in from the back fringe was his second in as many holes row and was necessary to dispose of tena­cious Gene Sauers, who matched Cook's birdie-birdie­birdie run over the first three playoff holes. 
"The first chip-in had the feel of it, that it would go in," Cook said. "But the second one, from that far out, that was a fluke. 
So was Sauers, one of four men to tie for second. Tom Kite, Gene Fehr and Mark O'Meara also finished regulation play in 336, 24 under par, but were eliminated earlier in the playoff, which matched the PGA Tour record for most participants. 
It was the second time in as many years in this five-day, four-course tournament that O'Meara had led going into the final round, had been forced into a playoff and been beaten by a chip-in. 
"I've played the last 10 rounds in this tournament 53 under par and I haven't won. That kind of wears on you," O'Meara said. 

He had to birdie the 90th hole, two-putting from long range, to complete a 3-under­par 69 and join the other four at 24 under par. 
Kite and Fehr had come from six shots ofT the pace with 63s, matching the course record at Bermuda Dunes. 
Cook had to come out of the water to make it. After hitting his second shot into a pond on the final hole of regulation, he took a drop, hit the stick with his pitch and made the par putt for a 66. 
Sauers reached the playoff with a closing 68. 
Fencers 
continued from page 20 
"I was pleased, especially with our performance against North Carolina (A 9-0 victory)," said Irish women's coach Yves Auriol. "We just ran out of gas against Temple." 
"I was impressed with Heidi and Mary's performances," 
Game 
continued from page 20 
open shot and fouling when the Irish managed to force the ball inside. 
With a 75-50 lead and 5:53 left in the game, the Cavalier's patient offense milked the clock dry. Junior guard Doug Smith, playing in his first game since 
Hot Shots 
continued from page 20 
noted Auriol. 
The Sunday action brought the Irish their only gold, as the epee team blew past the compe­tition by a combined score of 25-5. The Irish then edged Illinois 5-3 in the finals to cap­ture the gold. 
All-American David Calderhead keyed the victory, coming back from a 4-1 deficit to win a bout over Illinois' Scott Rush in the finals. Sophomore Grzegorz Wozniak posted a 
the removal of his appendix Jan. 12, nailed two clutch three-pointers to quash Notre Dame rallies. 
"We had to play defense for 43 seconds, and they'd make a three-pointer with two seconds left on the shot clock," said MacLeod. "We were trying to come back, but we put ourselves in a big hole: They made the big baskets." 
With Tuesday's contest at 
Three" attack for Virginia, with tys usual all-around play. Stith knocked down four of five shots in the first half, and stellar 9-1 record, and Ben Finley and Geoff Pechinsky both went 2-2. 

In men's sabre action, the Irish went 20-1 against Northwestern's A and B squad, North Carolina, and Michigan St. but then lost in a squeaker to the Buckeyes of Ohio St., 5-4. The Irish then beat Illinois 5-3 to capture the bronze. 
The Ohio St. match was marred by controversial calls by the officials, and DeChicco 
· Marquette the final game remaining in a nine-game endurance trial, the loss to Virginia dropped the Irish record on the road swing to 4-4. Yet despite the fact that Notre Dame has dropped its last two contests by 20 and 27 points, MacLeod says that his team has not taken a single step back. 
"It's discouraging," remarked MacLeod, "and I was hoping 
finished with 19 points on 7 -of­10 shooting. Stith also snagged nine rebounds and dished out 4 assists. 
"We moved the ball around 

that we'd play better. We've played eight of our nine straight games on the road, and we had four really strong games. The first 15 minutes against West Virginia were really strong, and then we began to back up. We only became really aggressive again in the last 12 minutes of this game. 
"Prior to USC, LaSalle, and North Carolina, nobody payed attention to us. Now they're 
the perimeter today and we found the open man," com­mented Stith. "We were staring at wide open jumpers, and we were able to shoot 60 to 70 going after us a lot harder. We saw that today." 
Although the Cavaliers served the Irish double-helpings of the agony of defeat, Notre Dame should not be counted out quite yet. 
"We'll be fine," said Sweet. "We have almost 16 games left. We're not gonna get down over one game. We definitely need some homes games, and our effort has to be tops." 
percent. I wasn't looking for my shot more than any other game. I just wanted to come out and play within the offense." 

Women 
continued from page 17 
freshman Julie Schick, senior Cynthia Safford, and senior Patten and freshman Cara Garvey winning the 50 freestyle event respectively. 
Jenny Kipp had a stellar day on the boards setting new Notre Dame diving records ofT both boards. Because Kipp was slated as an exibition diver on three spots with strong races from Feehery, Steel, and sophomore Colette LaForce. Feehery was the only double winner for Notre Dame in the meet. Garvey captured the title in the 100 backstroke while freshmen Angela Roby and Lorrei Horenkamp delivered a 

That sent five men to the tee on the first hole, a par-5, with the survivors going back to the 18th, another par-5. 
As it turned out, birdies were necessary to advance -and an eagle to win. 
Kite, who missed a 5-foot second putt, and O'Meara, who failed from 15 feet, were elimi­nated on the first hole. 
"I just pushed it," Kite said of his putt. "It's so frustrating." 
Sauers, Cook and Fehr made birdie after chips that stopped from 2-6 feet from the hole. 
On the 18th, Sauers and Cook both chipped close for 
one-two finish in the 500 freestyle. 
After swimming at Ball State on Friday evening, Cleveland State was showing the effects of a long trip at the meet. Depth was the key for the Irish who were able to leave some swimmers at home to rest on birdies, but Fehr missed from six feet and went to the side­lines. 
Cook and Sauers went back to the first tee again. Cook was in a greenside bunker in two and Sauers just short. After a poor sand shot, Cook chipped in for birdie from about 25-30 feet. Sauers got up and down to match him and send it back to the 18th again. 
This time Cook was through the green in two and Sauers was on the putting surface. Cook's chip found the cup again, this time for an eagle. When Sauers missed his long putt, it was over. 

commented on the controversy. "You can't do anything about the calls, that's just what hap­pens," stated DeChicco. "We'll see Ohio State a couple of times down the road, and we'll take care of business then." 
A 10-0 record from senior captain Chris Baguer helped offset his brother's absence, as did James Taliaferro's 11-3 slate. Senior Henry Chou went 5-5 and senior David Kirby was 3-0. 
The Irish's impressive per­formance against the top 13 teams in the country proves they will be a force to be reck­oned with come the NCAA Finals in March. The Irish will also face a tough test next week in defending national champ Penn State, and they are excited about the challenge. 
"We've progressed well, but we still have a lot of work to do," said coach DeChicco, "And only one week to do it." 
Friday night whereas all the swimmers from Cleveland State competed the night before. 
"I think the meet revealed how important: depth is," said Welsh. "If a small team doesn't win the event, they will get crushed on points." 

Debbie Brady combined their the one-meter board, sopho­talents to win the medley relay. more Angela Gugle officially The Irish went one-two in the won the event and qualified for next three events with Bohdan a trip to the NCAA Zone Diving and sophomore Karen Keeley meet. winning the 1,000-yard freestyle event, sophomore The Irish were equally suc­Alicia Feehery and junior Kim cessful in the second half of the Steel winning the 200 freestyle meet. In the 100 freestyle race, event, and junior Christy Van Notre Dame swept the top 


51 7FJvFE rro 'l(T/J.{t£,?. r'BT,t)( !llf}{V 
CELT/B'l(!llTE 



CAMPUS COMPETITION Racquetball Doubles (Men & Women) Co-Ree Volleyball 

(Tuesday -7:00 P.Y..f. Sacrecf J-(eart Cfzurcfz
INTERHALL COMPETITION Team Racquetball (Men & Women) 
GRADIFAC/STAFF COMPETITION Volleyball 
~­
(Z\MPUS
QUESTIONS ? CALL ... 239-6100 

MINISTRY
DEADLINE-JANUARY 22 
Monday, January 20, 1992 The Observer page 15 
SPORTS BRIEFS
Saint Mary's swimmers lose to Valpo 
By JULIE SCULLY 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swim team was defeated on Saturday by a strong Division I Valparaiso team 127-109. 
Despite the defeat, Coach Dennis Cooper was still opti­mistic. 
"It was a real good meet for us. Sometimes it can be dis­couraging to lose, but our swimmers swam well and hung in there. The meet was much closer than we thought it would be," added Cooper. 
The Belles intensive training is beginning to pay off as they won six events. The 200 free relay team of Megan Hurley, Carisa Thomas, Michelle Colburn and Kathleen Golski captured the event with a time of 1:50.33. Senior captain Michelle Colburn also captured first place in 200 backstroke, with a time of 2:23.45, which is her lifetime best. 
Freshman Katie Northup was a double winner for the Belles in the 200 butterfly and the 400 individual medley. Before the meet, Cooper told the freshmen he needed them to come for­ward and win events. Northup did just that, as she impressed her teammates as well as Cooper, with her decisive victo­ries over Valparaiso's Division I swimmers. In both events, Northup dropped seconds from her previous times. Northup said, "I was really pleased and surprised." 
In the 200 breaststroke, ju­nior Jenny Danahy and sopho­more Ellen Kramer added thir­teen points to the Belles final score with their respective first and second place finishes. 
Senior Carrie Cummins placed first in the three-meter diving event. Cummins' dives included an inward straight, a two and one half sommersault in the tuck position, an inward one and one half sommersault in the pike position, a back one and one half sommersault in the free position, a back one and one half sommersault with one and one half twists, and finally, a reverse one and one half sommersault, in the pike position. Cummins consistently received scores of 5.5 from the three judges. 

Senior captain Golski cap­tured two second place finishes in the 1000 freestyle with a personal best of 11.49, and in the 500 free, with a time of 
5:49. The Belles also placed second in the 200 medley relay and in the 200 free relay. 
Overall, Coach Cooper was pleased with the Saint Mary's swimmers and plans to con­tinue their rigorous practice schedule in preparation for the Belles next meet against University of Chicago with Wabash. The meet is scheduled for January 25 at the Rockne Memorial Pool. 
•Sports 
briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday until 5 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortu~e. Please submit a short brief, your full name, and the date the bnef is to be run. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submissions. 

•Late 
Night Olympics reams are being organized at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Interested persons should contact their hall LNO representative for information on the latest night of the year -Late Night Olympics, Friday, Jan. 31. 

•The 
Water Polo team will start practice on Monday, January 


20. Bring $25 semester dues. 
•Attention 
all Sailing Club members and officers. This will be a mandatory meeting on Tuesday, January 21 at 6:30 p.m .. in room 204 0' Shaugnessy. There will be information about elections and Comodore's Ball. Please attend. If you cannot attend call Moira at 284-534 or Adrienne at 284-5085. 

•The 
Cricket Club will have a mandatory meeting on Thursday, Jan. 23 in 105 O'Shaughnessy at 7 p.m. All persons interested must attend. Call Marko (3587) or Tim (1473) for details. 

•Hapkido/Tae 
Kwon Do starts Monday, Jan. 20. Practice every Monday and Wednesday, 6:30 p.m.-7:45 p.m. Room 301 Rockne Memorial. Beginners welcome. Any questions, call Sean (3457). 



Eleven thousand ofthe most brilliant people in America work in a profession that few of us even know exists. No matter how smart we are. 
Few careers combine more challenge and diversity with greater financial reward. You can learn like a Ph.D. while you earn like an MBA ­and have a lot more fun along the way. 
All majors welcome. Just bring your exceptional mental skills, math skills, people skills and driving will to achieve. We'll show you how to tum a great brain into a brilliant career. 
This summer, start building your career with Aetna. We'll be on campus Wednesday, February 12, interviewing for our Actuarial summer intern­ship program in Hartford, Connecticut. In order to be considered for our closed schedule, please submit your resume to Career Placement Services by January 22. 

page 16 
Wrestlers take down NIU 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
Frequently dominating an overmatched Northern Illinois squad. Notre Dame's wrestling team evened its dual match record to 2-2 with a sound de­feat of the Huskies Saturday night. 
Marcus Gowens raised his season record at 126 pounds to 15-3 with a convincing win over John Willems. After building a sound 10-4 lead, Gowens quickly pinned Willems at the start of the second period. Each of Willems' points came on an escape immediately following a Gowens takedown. 
At 158 pounds, each wrestler battled injuries in one of the night's most exciting matches. Notre Dame's Emil Soehnlen battled an early nosebleed, while opponent T.C. Dantzler finished the bout with a twisted ankle. Though tied at the end of regulation, Dantzler was awarded the match with a rid­ing time advantage. 
Soehnlen jumped out to a 4-1 lead after the first two minutes of the match. But with his lead came a severely bleeding nose. Dantzler came back, scoring two escapes and a takedown to lead 5-4 at the end of the sec­ond period. 
Backed by a supportive home cheering section, Soehnlen tied Dantzler at 5-5 with an escape with 1:59 remaining. Then, with under a minute left, Soehnlen grabbed hold of Dantzler's leg. In effort to escape, Dantzler twisted his own ankle. However, Soehnlen was unable to gain the advantage, and was awarded the 6-5 win on a riding time advantage. With the loss, Soehnlen's season mark dropped to 10-8-1. 
Notre Dame suffered tough losses in two other weight classes. At 118, Ed Jamiedon lost a tough 8-5 decision to Northern Illinois' Shannon Gregory, while 134-pounder Matt Beaujon dropped a tight 4-2 match to the Huskies' Bill Walsh. 
However, the toughest loss of night came for a Northern 
Men 
continued from page17 
Birmingham and junior Ed 
Broderick each collected a pair 
of wins in Saturday's 139-98 
rout of Cleveland State, with 
Birmingham taking the 50 and 
100-yard freestyle events and 
Broderick winning in the 200­
yard individual medley and 
1 00-yard butterfly. 
This weekend's performance 
is even more remarkable con­
sidering the fact that the Irish 
had just returned from Texas 
and were trying to get their feet 
wet academically as the new 
semester began. 
"We had only been back in school for a week and we were coming off of ten intense train­ing days in Texas, so we were really tired," Birmingham said, "but everybody really rose to the challenge this weekend." 
They will have to rise to an­other challenge next weekend as Ohio State and St. Bonaventure come to town. Many have predicted Ohio State to take the Big Ten crown and St. Bonaventure has been a traditional Irish rival, so emo­tions will be high next weekend as the Irish look to stay on the winning trail. 
Illinois wrestler. 
In an extremely tight defen­
sive battle, 142-pounder Mike 
Fox defeated Bruce Takasaki 2­
1. Fox scored early, and was able to prevent Takasaki from scoring for the final six min­utes. 
The Irish had their biggest 
successes at the high weight 
classes, earning victories at 
167, 167, 190 and Heavyweight 
classes. 
Heavyweight Chuck Weaver thoroughly dominated his match with Chad McCrimmon, earning an 18-6 win, while 190-pounder Tom Salvino won a walkover victory. 
Todd Tomazic evened his sea­son record at 8-8 with a pin of Chad Gautcher in the 167­pound class. Providing some of the night's most exciting wrestling, Tomazic jumped out to a 6-1 lead before ending the match at 3:41 of the second pe­riod. 
Marked by spurts of high scoring, the 177-pound bout gave the Irish another victory in the upper weight classes. In that match, J .J. McGrew downed Courtney Pitter 8-3. McGrew controlled the second period, maintaining the advan­tage throughout the two-minute stanza. 


The revelation last month of the actions of Rev. James Burtchaell brought about one of the most difficult periods of timl' faced by memhl•rs of this community. After being removed from Notre Dame and the situation over the holidays, I share with you my reflections on the events, <~nd lww the issue was handled by Notre Dame. 
Much attention was focused on Rev. Burtchaell by both local and some national media, and rightfully so. But the discussion of this m,1tkr wa.:; limited primarily to three topics: the actual abusive actions of Rev. Burtchaell, its relation to issues of homosexuality, and the almost silent response of the Notre Dame administration and the Congregation of Holy Cross. Unfortunately, a larger group of individuals has been overlooked in the campaign to find who was at fault. Indeed, no one cared about those who are hurting. 
Who are the victims, and what are they going through? Michael Vore has 
stood up and identified himself, but there are others. I suspect that only Rev. 
Burtchaell and a few others know who they are by name, but they should not 
be forgotten. And what about the many students, faculty, and Holy Cross 
priests who are also hurting. To them, Burtchaell is an admired colleague, a 
respected peer, a family friend, and an outstanding teacher. They are angry, 
distressed, confused, and sad. We have forgotten these individuals as well. 
What can we do to ease their pain? 
I express my dismay at those who have literally taken a delight in what has transpired. For some, such actions by a Roman Catholic priest provided an excellent opportunity to advance political agendas. For others, it became a 
race to create the most original jokes. Such actions only compound the pain of many. Where is the understanding for those who are hurting7 Where is 
the forgiveness? I just hope the Lord shows more mercy on us. 
As an institution, Notre Dame has failed. There can be no doubt, after all that has transpired this past semester, that we do not properly address the issue of sexuality. It seems that our discussion of sexuality, irrespective of sexual offenses, is limited to condom distribution, parietals, and page 27 of duLac. This is inadequate and improper. The institution has also failed in dealing specifically with this sexual abuse case. It seems that, in my opinion, individuals of integrity, acting in manners that were considered proper, perhaps allowed sexual abuses to continue because of a structural breakdown. A review of the processes involved is definitely warranted. 
I hope we can all extract some good from this tragic situation. I hope members of this community can become better human beings in spite of it. 
Sincerely, 
,\ I 


1ft 
), ,{ (_<__ '-~ 
David Florenzo 
~TUDE NT
Student Body Vice President 
GOVIRNMINI 
Monday, January 20, 1992 The Observer page 17 
NIU and Cleveland State no match for swim teams .. 

Men regain competitive edge after long break from the water 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
Rebounding from a tough loss at Texas A&M, the Notre Dame men's swim team collected a pair of decisive wins this weekend to improve their record to 9-5. 
Although they weren't able to knock off a powerful Texas A&M team in San Antonio, the trip helped the Irish regain the competitive edge they lacked after a long break from compe­tition with nearly a month off between meets. 
"Before the meet (at Texas A&M) I wasn't sure if we'd be able to get back into a racing frame of mind," senior co-cap­tain Jim Birmingham explained, "but everyone was really ready to compete and it was like we had never been away." 
Northern Illinois probably 
wished that the Irish had stayed away Friday night, as they cruised to their eighth win of the season with wins in 10 individual events and two re­lays. 
Junior John Godfrey was the leader in Notre Dame's 133-99 win, capturing the 200-yard backstroke with a time of 
1:56.96 as well as playing a key role on both the 400 medley re­lay and 400 free relay winning teams. 
Saturday afternoon saw the Irish compete at home for the first time since November 8, and the result was almost identical to Friday night. It was a record setting afternoon for sophomore diver Sean Hyer, whose 345.90 total set a new school record in the three-me­ter diving competition. 
see MEN/ page 16 

Women start right where they were before break 
By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 
Home from a training trip in
!}!]&lfPJfPJM ~©~lhl Texas, the Notre Dame women's swim team picked up right where they left off with a pair of victories over the weekend. 
IeJtllflllfarm&lllJJ 
On Friday night, the Irish travelled to Dekalb, Ill, to battle the Huskies of Northern Illinois 

~&J[JJ1Tf~~!li1 and came away with a win. On Saturday afternoon, the Vikings of Cleveland State were beaten
Love, 
by the depth of the Irish squad. In the non-conference victory 'l.t NIU, Notre Dame more or
Mom, Dad, Patti, 
ess dominated the meet. )ouble winners for the Irish vere numerous. Freshman rennifer Dahl took first place in wth the 1,000-yard freestyle end the 200 freestyle races. All-American Tanya Williams cap­tured the 200 individual medley 
Mike, Joey, Casey 
and the 200 backstroke. Senior Jenny Kipp was in top form and won diving events off both the one-meter and three-meter boards. 
Notre Dame won both the re­lay events. Seniors Shana Stephens and Becky Wood, Williams, and Margaret Beeler turned in strong performances for the medley win and fresh­man Haley Scott, junior Susan Bohdan, Stephens, and Dahl equaled their efforts in the free relay. 
Single winners from Notre Dame include sophomore Kristin Heath in the 200 butter­fly, Scott in the 100 freestyle, Bohdan in the 500 freestyle, and Wood in the 200 breast­stroke. 
The freshmen on the team pulled their weight against the Huskies. In addition to the first place finishes, Colleen Hipp took second in the 1000 freestyle, the 200 butterfly, and the 500 freestyle and Beeler took second in the 50 freestyle. 
Back at Rolfs Aquatic Center on Saturday, the Irish defeated an out-matched Cleveland State squad. Notre Dame started out the meet strong winning the first four events. 
"This weekend was our first chance to see how we are doing now that we're back in school," said Notre Dame coach Tim Welsh. "I think today we showed strong results from the training trip." 
Junior Kristen Broderick, freshman Julie Schick, senior Cynthia Safford, and senior Debbie Brady combined their talents to win the medley relay. The Irish went one-two in the next three events with Bohdan 
see WOMEN I page 14 

ATTENTION JUNIORS 
Come find out about Summer Internship Opportunities at The Travelers: 
• 
Actuarial Science 

• 
Information Systems 

• 
Finance 


SUMMER JOB FAIR Wednesday, January 22, 1992 Monogram Room, JACC 1:00-5:00 p.m. 
• 
Please bring a resume and transcript. 

• 
Interviews to be held January 23, 1992. 

• 
All positions will be located in llartford, Connecticut. 


TheTravelerST' 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

l.Jfcoming Events 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 23 MICHAEl MANN, 
Kroc ln•titute Graduate Student 
"TO CElEBRATE 
COlUMBUS OR NOT TO CElEBRATE: IS THAT THE QUESTION?" 
12:15 p.m. Conferemce Room 103 Hesburgh Center 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 24 DR. HAIDAR ABDEl SHAFI 
Leader of the Pale•tinian Delegation to the Peace Talk• in Wa.hington 
"PROSPECTS FOR PEACE IN THE MIDDlE EAST" 
2:30 p.m. -Washington Hall 
INSTITUTE FOR Ill INTERNATIONAl 
I IIIII~;!S~o;~?~:~ 
page 18 
Irish find third period magic in sweep of Army 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team survived a physical two-game series against Army and escaped with two come from behin<l wins this weekend at the Joyce Fieldhouse to improve their record to 8-10-1. 
The key to both victories was the inspired third period play of the Irish. Going into the week­end they had been outscored in the final stanza, 34-24, but Notre Dame reversed this trend by scoring seven third period goals against the Cadets. 
"The guys deserve a lot of credit for coming from behind the way they did," Irish coach Ric Shafer said. "When the game was on the line. we re­sponded. However, we have to remember that the game is on the line from the beginning, not just in the third period." 
On Saturday, the Irish trailed 4-2 after two periods, but turned it up a notch in the third to score three goals in three minutes to rally for a 5-4 win. 
With Army on the power play, left wing Michael Curry was forechecking while the Cadets 
proceeded to steal the puck 
from Army's John Compton at 
the Cadet blue line, and then 
fired a blast for the top of the 
left face-off circle past Cadet 
goaltender Brandon Hayes for 
his second goal of the game 
and the game winner. 
The Irish comeback was 
started when Rob Copeland fol­
lowed his own shot in the slot 
to cut the Army lead to 4-3 at 
7:27. The score was set up by Lou Zadra, who fed Copeland with a near-perfect from the right side. Zadra then tied the game when he poked the puck past Hayes at 9:10 during a scramble in front of the Cadet net. 
Another factor in Saturday's comeback was Irish goaltender. Greg Louder, who was playing in his sixth game following a hand injury which had sidelined him all season. He shut out Army and made 11 saves in the third to preserve the win. 
"Overall I feel pretty com­fortable, but I'm not back at the top of my game yet." Louder said. "Little by little I'm getting there; it's just going to take time." 
The Irish struggled through the opening two periods despite jumping out to leads of 1-0 and 2-1. Zadra got the Irish on the board first at 11:32 of the first when he tipped in Scott Vickman's shot from the right point. Chad Sundem evened the game three and a half minutes later when he stole a pass in the Irish zone, skated in alone and beat Louder to his glove side. 
After the first intermission, Curry put the Irish back on top at 1:39 with a shot from the right of Hayes. However, the Cadets answered just fifteen seconds later when Bob Mansell put a shot from the slot past Louder. Army center Scott Tardiff then scored two goals to put the Cadets up by two en­tering the third period. 
"We knew it was only a mat­ter of time before we started playing well," Louder com-
The Observer Monday, January 20, 1992 

were setting up their attack. He ~li~~~wi.ii.ii.ii.iiliiilii~~~~~~·······•aa••••lllllllllllllilllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllalal......... 
mented." When the pressure was on. we responded." 
On Friday night the Irish won 5-3. after falling behind 2-1 after two periods and 3-2 in the third. 
In the first two periods, Notre Dame was plagued by a problem it has had all season­penalty killing. Going into the weekend, Irish opponents had converted 32.2 percent of their power play opportunities. 
Army's first two scores were power play goals by Rick Berube and Michael Landers. Notre Dame temporarily tied the game. 1-1, in the second period on a goal by Jeff Hasselman. 
With the Cadets leading 3-2, Troy Cusey pulled the Irish even with his second goal of the game. This was followed by Sterling Black's game-winning goal. Brent Lamppa sealed the victory with an empty net goal. 
"Army was a good test for our team," Schafer said. "They play at a similar level. and I am happy that we were able to come out of the weekend with two wins." 
•• 
• 

LSAT • GMAT • GRE • MCAT 
NOW YOU HAVE 
•
A CHOICE. • • 
• 
THERE'S A NEW WAY TO PREPARE FOR GRADUATE SCHOOL. 
Small Classes. Individual attention. Application assistance. Call us today to find out more. 
,__THE__ 
I 

~DUCATIONAl GROUP 
Please Recycle 
Thank You. 
SOUTH BEND 273-1866 

Monday, January 20, 1992 The Observer page 19 
CALVIN AND HOBBES JAY HOSLER 
WHATIS iH£ RUSll? I JlJST.... 
SAAAY.-WHAT HA\Jt: YoU 
6?oT UNDER YOUR HAP 
·-~~~ 
~~ ~i{js ~~ 
~ 

If= n.lt:Rt: /11£/(£ At-\'{ ~()~51El<S \JNDE.R M'{ 8£..1), ~OW 'BIG WOJLD 11-IE'{ Bt 7 
\ ~ "'--..""­
_'\,.~ ' \ ~ 
"And here's the jewel of my collection, purchased for a king's ransom from a one-eyed man in Istanbul. ... I give you Zuzu's petals." 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 


Monday 

7 p.m. Film, "Cabiria." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. Admission $2. Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
7:30 p.m. Panel Discussion: "Civil Rights: Past, Present and Future," in observance of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. Dean of the Law School Fernand Dutile and Law Professors Robert Rodes and Thomas Broden will be panel members. Guest panelists will be Roland Chamblee, M.D., and Norman Miles, Ph.D. Law School, room 120. The film "Montgomery to Memphis" will be shown. 
9 p.m. Film, "Stagecoach." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. Admission $2. Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
LECTURES 
MONDAY 

1 p.m. Lecture, "Life and Death in Ancient Nubia: The Impact of Political Economy," Susan Sheridan, University of Colorado. 
<0 Edward Julius Collegiate CH8804 
Lounge, Hesburgh Library. 
4:30 p.m. Mathematical Colloquium, "Quantum Zonal Polynomials," Naihuan Jing, University of Michigan. Room 226,
46 Kennedy and 5 Shameless ..
ACROSS 
Danson 6 Durable Mathematics Building. 1 Luke of "Star Wars" 47 Tennis replay 7 Type of shirt lD Elegant 48 Blanc or Jungfrau 8-trip 
TUESDAY

14 Nickname for Syra-50 Arlene ----9 Provide, as a cuse Univ. (2 wds.) 52 Bullfight cry service 
15 Turkish title 53 Actress Perrine, 10 ----Alto 12:30 p.m. Kellogg Seminar, "Introduction of Faculty Fellows 16 Deep involvement for short 11 Exclude socially and Institute's Programs," Room C-103, Greenfield Cafe,
17 Place of sacrifice 54 Stogie, western 12 In pieces 
Hesburgh Center. 
18 Gypsy Rose ----style 13 Severity19 Lawyer (abbr. ) 58 01 d TV show, 15 Tropical fruits 20 Exiles "GE -Bowl" 21 God of love 22 Verdi opera 60 Organization for 23 Fab1 e writer 24 Pitcher's statistic ~1r. Chips 27 Opposite of syn. 25 Natl. Coll. ----61 French article 30 Lose 
Assn. 62 "... partridge in 31 Playmates of deer 26 Famous volcano ----tree" 32 Lacking nationality28 Mr. Rogers 63 Something that 34-avion 29 Hundred years Felix Unger has 36 Legal ownership
(abbr.) 66 GRE and SAT 38 Basket makers 30 Part of e=mc2 67 Sailors' patron 40 Buddy Ebsen role 33 Economics abbrevi-(2 wds.) 43 Smeltery waste 
MENU

ation 68 Being: Lat. 45 Attaches 35 Parody 69 ~lax Factor 49 Satisfy37 Under one's guid-product (2 wds.) 51 Fireside 
ance (2 wds.) 55 Trade organization 39 ----Hahal 56 Prefix: wind
DOWN Notre Dame 
41 Clothing char­1 French crossing 57 Plant again 
acteristics 2 Official language 59 Overdue 42 Ear bone of Cambodia 60 Ballet movement 44 Basketball game 3 Where San'a is 64 Opposite of clergy Baked Parmesan Chicken Breast 
need 4 Misfortune 65 Suffix: region Beef Turnover with Gravy Eggplant Parmesan Baked Chicken Breast with Herbs 
Sports 

page 20 Monday, January 20, 1992 
Basketball team destroyed by Virginia's 'Midas touch' 

Can't miss shooting leads to 83-56 win for Cavaliers 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Editor 
CI!ARLOTTESVILLE, Va.-All the rest in world could not save Notre Dame from Virginia's sharpshooters. 
Saturday, the Cavaliers used a .638 shooting percentage and an aggressive man-to-man defense to dump the Fighting Irish 83-56 before a crowd of 8,400 fans at University Hall. 
"I was very impressed with Virginia," said John MacLeod. coach of the 4-7 Irish. "I thought they were going to shoot 110 percent. They did a great job with their offense. Defensively, their man-to-man was really impresive, with aggressive, physical play inside." 
With 3:37 gone in the first half. Notre Dame trailed 6-5 . .lust 10 minutes later, the Irish were on the wrong end of a 30-16 margin. 
All-America candidate Bryant Stith and freshman marksman Cory Alexander fueled the Cavalier's offensive explosion, scoring 41 points (on .666 percent shooting) between them in addition to dishing out a combined seven assists and pulling down nine rebounds. 
"When they're raining jumpers from outside like that. there's not much you can do," said Irish forward LaPhonso Ellis. 
"Had we not shot 70 percent, we would have been in trouble," said Virginia coach Jeff Jones. "We really played well defensively. This is a good win against a good team, and our team badly needed a victory." 
In spite of the sweet taste of victory which graced Virginia's lips, the Cavaliers nearly squandered the home-cooked victory at the outset of the second half. Notre Dame's Daimon Sweet came out firing, and quickly cut the 42-26 halftime deficit to 48-36. Virginia quickly 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
adjusted its defense, however, denying Sweet the Senior LaPhonso Ellis rises above the crowd for an easy basket in ___________..;s;;,;e;.;;e;.,G::.;.;A;,;,;M.:.;E:;./..t;p;.;;a:li:g~e..;1:.,:4:....;,N.;,;o~t;.;re;..D~am~e.;:'s;.;l.;:.os;:.:s:_t.o Virginia on Saturday.
1 Belle's basketball splits a pair 
By CHRIS BACON 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team continues to have its ups 
and downs this season, splitting a pair of games at home this weekend. The Belles defeated the University of Chicago 90-77 Friday night. but was trounced by Lake Forest College on Saturday, 82-56. 
Defense was the key for the Belles'(2-6) victory against the Lady Marooners. Chicago's freshman guard Vickie Whitman shot up the boards early with three from the far perimeters, tallying 11 first half points to lead her team to an early 10 point team. But the Belles climbed back into the game battling for control. the Belles grabbed a 42-39 halftime lead. 
Early in the second half, both teams continued to exchange
.. 
buckets. Saint Mary's offense then exploded with a 16-2 run, going up 65-55. Fouls allowed Chicago to pull within three, but the Belles defense once again held the Marooners. The Belles built upon their three point lead. extending it to 11 with minutes remaining. The Belles went on to win the easy victory. 
"Chicago has had its ups and downs. We did a real good job against Chicago," said Belles coach Don "Popcorn" Cromer. 
"Friday night we played as a team. We did everything we wanted to do," explained senior forward Catherine Hestovich. 
Senior Janet Libbing Jed all scorers in Friday's matchup with 27 points. Hestovich added another 17 points and sopho­more guard Courtney, sinking eight at the line, tallied 16. 
The Belles went to work Saturday afternoon against 
Lake Forest. Playing sluggishly in the early minutes of action, the Belles quickly fell behind their visiting opponents. Shooting at about 20 percent from the field in the first half, Lake Forest ended the half with a 19 point lead at 49-30. 
ln the second half, the Belles 
continued to struggle with their 
shooting and passing game. 
Lake Forest increased its lead 
to 25 at the midway point in the 
second half, at 70-45. While the 
Belles defense held Lake Forest 
to only 33 second half points, 
Saint Mary's was unable to 
penetrate on the boards. 
"We looked like two different 
teams. We looked sluggish and 
tired," explained Cromer. "The 
biggest mistake we made was 
that we came out. they put 
pressure on us and we missed 
the easy shots. We missed 14 
uncontested shots, mostly lay 
ups." 
"We came off of a 24 hour break, they had a couple of days. Today we got down and behind. It takes a lot to come back," explained Libbing who was held to just 13 points in Saturday's effort. "They shot the lights out of us. They are a really good team." 
The Belles travel to Rosary College on Wednesday and re­turn home for a game against Hope College on Friday night. Both games are important for the Belles who, despite their 2­6 record, still hope to rebound and earn a post-season bid. Both Rosary and Hope are ranked within their divisions and are expected to go -to the tournament at the end of this season. 
"We got two tough games coming this week. We've got to get back and concentrate for these games and then go from there," said Cromer. 

Smith, Alexander, Burrough bury Irish with hot hands 
By ANTHONY KING 
Associate Sports Editor 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va.-llot and cold. 
In the first half of Saturday's Notre Dame Virginia matchup, the Cavaliers brought the heat, and the Irish supplied the cold. 
Notre Dame brought the icy chill of South Bend into University Hall, shooting a paltry .348 in the first half. The Virginia squad, however, could do no wrong, as they buried nearly every shot they at­tempted, firing . 708 from the field in the first stanza. 
Coming into Saturday's matchup, the Irish knew they would have to stop Wooden candidate Bryant Stith. Stith did his part to bury Notre Dame early, but it was two freshmen, Cory Alexander and Junior Burrough, that did the damage early. 
Alexander, a freshman guard, did his damage with bombs-three point bombs. He connected on three of the five three pointers he attempted in the first half. More importantly, Alexander's downtown shooting seemed to crush the life out of the Notre Dame rallies. It was Alexander's shooting that also forced the Irish defense to open up the inside. 
"People respect Bryant (Stith) so much. once he gets the ball the whole team collapses on him," said Alexander. "He's a very unselfish player. lle won't take the forced shot, he'll get it back out to me. The shots just fell today." 
The shots fell, and Alexander finished with 22 points, a career high for the young Cavalier. 
Forward Junior Burrough did his damage down low. Burrough's polished turn-around jumper shredded the interior defense in the first half. Borrough hit all of his five first half shots, and collected four rebounds. 
"I think it surprised them a little bit that I would go up there and shoot those kind of shots over him {Tower)" explained Burrough. "I just thought it was my shot, and it went down tonight." 
see HOT SHOTS I page14 
ND men's tennis sweeps Minnesota 
By JOHN RYAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team played perfect tennis for a 9-0 sweep over the twenty­fourth ranked University of Minnesota on Saturday night. 
As the score might indicate, the victory did not come easily for the tenth ranked Irish due to the adverse playing condi­tions at Minnesota. The players had difficulty picking up the ball at the Minnesota courts, but they made the necessary adjustments and maintained their poise. 
"I was very pleased with our play and poise," said Notre Dame coach Bob Bayliss. "Andy Zurcher and Dave DiLucia deserve credit for re­gaining poise, and making the adjustments." 
In the singles bracket, three 


DAVE DILUCIA 
out of the six matches were set­tled in the third and final set. Both Zurcher and DiLucia had to come from behind after los­ing the first set in each of their matches. Will Forsyth defeated Adam Krafft 6-4, 7-6 {7-5). while Chuck Coleman beat Dominic Rodriguez 6-1, 6-1. Mark Schmidt made easy work out of Paul Pridmore 6-0, 6-2, and Ron Rosas defeated Dan Alusko 6-3, 4-6, 6-1. 
In doubles, the first team duo of DiLucia and Coleman de­feated Alusko and Roger Anderson 5-7. 6-3, 6-4, while Zurcher and Forsythe took Krafft and Mike Husebo in straight sets 6-3, 6-4. Schmidt and Chris Wojtalik went the distance against Rodriguez and Phil LeBlanc, beating them 6-7, 6-1.6-4. 
Coach Bayliss may have been most pleased with the perfor­mances of Schmidt and Coleman in their singles matches. "They were excep­tional," said Bayliss. "They set the tone, and dominated from the start." 
He also noted that Rosas and Forsythe stuck to the plan of attack by serving to their op­ponents' backhand. 
The Notre Dame men's tennis squad will face Colorado at home on January 31. 
Fencers shine at USFA Open 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 
Despite the absence of three top athletes who were compet­ing in other meets, the Notre Dame fencers turned in an out­standing effort at the USFA Open in Evanston, Illinois, over the weekend. 
The men's epee team was able to pick up the Irish's lone gold medal even without the services of All-American Jubba Beshin, but the men's foil team had to settle for the silver after falling in the finals. 
The women foilists also won a silver but missed senior Rachel Haugh, who is compet­ing in Portland to represent the 
U.S. in the World University Games. The men's sabre team, sans senior Ed Baguer, won the bronze after losing a hotly-con­tested match in the semis. 

"I was really pleased with their performance," said Irish coach Mike DeChicco, "A gold, two silvers and a bronze is great, especially since we didn't have a national champ and two great athletes." 
The men's foil started the ac­tion off on Saturday by breezing through the first rounds in beating Buffalo, Vanderbilt, Chicago, Michigan St., and Northwestern by a combined score of 25-2. The Irish then ran into a tough Illinois squad in the semi's but escaped 5-4, thanks to two inspiring come­back victories by senior Mike Trisko and substitute Ed Lefevre. In the latter match, Lefevre beat the Illini's top foilist to put the Irish on top for good by the score of 4-3. 
Junior captain Jeff Piper Jed the Irish with a 12-2 record for the day, and he got support from Trisko, who went 12-4. Lefevre was 3-2 and sophomore Rian Girard also impressed, going 7-5. 
Also on Saturday, the Irish women rode a 14-0 record from defending national champ Heidi Piper into the finals before bowing out to Temple 8-7. The match was decided by a tiebreaker based on total touches, and the Owls captured the gold. Mary Westrick also led the Irish with a 11-3 overall record. 
see FENCERS/ page 14 





