

~l~Altt
-Q&· 
. lt42·1992 5( SQUIClNUNNIAL 

e Observer ~int~~Cd~
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 

FRIDAY, APRIL 3, 1992
VOL. XXIV NO. 124 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Casey: Party must rethink on abortion 
By BRENDAN QUINN 
News Writer 
The national Democratic Party failed to understand the seismic, social, and political shock waves generated by the 1973 Roe vs. Wade decision, according to Robert Casey, governor of Pennsylvania. 
''In the two decades since then (Roe), the party's position on abortion went from open to closed and from dialogue to dictate. and millions of Democrats headed for those open doors and they never came back," Casey said in a speech yesterday on "The Democratic Party and the Politics of Abortion." 
"Too many Democrats in this country have had a bad feeling in their hearts and in their souls about the national Democratic Party because the Democratic Party broke its compact with mainstream America when it volunteered it­self as the party of abortion on demand," he said. 
According to Casey, the pro­abortion forces in the Democratic Party have suc­ceeded in alienating Democrats such as himself by catering to special interest groups which control the party's purse strings. These special interests have turned the party away from the traditional values of millions of Democrats. he said. 
The party has shut off dis­cussion on the issue. but even this prohibition has not stopped eighty members of the House of Representatives from voting against the party's pro-abortion 

Senate committee passes budget, limits defense cuts 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The adopted a proposal by Hollings out of work. 
The Observer/Pat McHugh 

Pennsylvania Governor Robert Casey speaks about "The Democratic Party and the Politics of Abortion," in a lecture yesterday. Casey said that pro-abortionists in the Democratic Party have begun to give Democrats a ~eputation for having weak values. 
position, added Casey. said. 
"This is more than an issue of "It is time for the party to rights. It is an issue of right deliver a strong message to the and wrong, and millions of American people that millions Democrats think their party's of Democrats believe in protect­dead wrong on abortion," Casey ing unborn human life," he said. "The party will stay said. wrong until they open the party Casey said the Democratic and open the platform process Party has failed to capture the to dialogue and debate," he see CASEY/ page 4 
Senate Budget Committee ap­proved a $1.5 trillion budget for next year Thursday after rejecting a plan by its Demo­cratic chairman to cut defense spending by $10 billion and agreeing to limit the reduction to $5 billion. about what Presi­dent Bush has proposed. 
The overall budget for fiscal 1993, which begins Oct. 1, was approved 11-10. The full Senate plans to begin debating the measure next Tuesday. 
By a 12-9 vote. the panel re­jected a plan by chairman James Sasser, D-Tenn., that would have held next year's de­fense spending to $286.8 bil­lion. 
Three of the committee's Democrats joined the panel's nine Republicans in voting against the plan. The three Democrats were Sens. Ernest Hollings of South Carolina, J. James Exon of Nebraska and Christopher Dodd of Connecti­cut. 
Minutes later, the committee and Sen. Pete Domenici of New Mexico, the panel's ranking Re­publican, that would set fiscal 1993 defense spending at $291.5 billion. The vote was 11­10, with Hollings and Dodd joining the GOP members. 
The vote represented a set­back for Senate Democratic leaders, who had been hoping for a deeper defense cut than the president has proposed in the aftermath of the dissolution of the Soviet Union. It came after Defense Secretary Dick Cheney lobbied several of the senators by telephone. 
"This says an enormous amount about the strength of the military-industrial complex in this country," Sasser said after the vote. "Bringing down excessive military spending is going to be a long, excruciating process, because they'll resist you at every turn." 
Hollings argued that his plan would avoid throwing hundreds of thousands of troops and civilian defense related workers 

"You don't want to counsel yourself out by closing out Fort Dix ... and have them coming up here looking for more unemployment compensation," Hollings said. 
Sasser's defense figure was immediately attacked by Republicans and some Democrats as being too deep, and by other lawmakers as being too shallow. 
"The ice is cracking, and we don't know how things will end up in the Soviet Union," Domenici told reporters. "What's so bad about waiting three or four years before we drastically reduce the defense." 
Thanks to sizable Democratic defections, the House and Sen­ate have rejected efforts by party leaders in the last week to shift billions of dollars from defense to social programs. But even with all savings directed at deficit reduction, Democrats are split over how far the Pen­tagon's budget should be shrunk. 
Faculty vow to keep struggling despite veto 
Editor's Note: The following is the third of four articles ad­dressing the issue of faculty 
participation in the academic governance ofthe University. 
By DAVID KINNEY 
News Editor 
Although the proposal calling for the reorganization of the Academic Council was vetoed, the debate over faculty partici­pation in the academic gover­nance of Notre Dame continues. 
"I haven't heard anyone say they (the faculty) shouldn't have input in the deliberation of academic issues," said Dean Eileen Kolman of Freshman Year of Studies. "The question is in the structures." 
Dean Frank Castellino of the College of Science agreed. " As we start to develop a better faculty, this type of faculty will want a say and should have one," he said. But "are we a mature enough University for that to happen at this point?" 
It is not only the faculty that is concerned with the operation of the Academic Council. University President Father Edward Malloy said he hopes that the executive committee of the Academic Council can examine its workings and effectiveness in order to enliven the conversation at the meetings. 
The proposal drafted by the Faculty Committee on Governance and later approved by the Academic Council was viewed by many faculty to be a modest one, according to Mort Fuchs, chair of the department of biological sciences. 
"The proposal did not take the president's veto away," said Fuchs. "It was not a threat to him or the Academic Council." 
Faculty emphasize that they do not want complete control of the operation of the University. Rather, they want to have say in issues such as curriculum, the treatment of faculty, tenure policies and how the 
~~U~L~TY~.....P-A.....R__T_IC~IP_A__T~I..,.O~N~ 
N GOVERNANCE Part3 of 4 
• questions on traditional governance/ page 3 
relatwnsh1p between students and faculty are handled, according to Professor William Tageson. 
Professor David O'Connor said that the governance committee wanted to make a small. focused, concrete step through the proposal, allowing for more gradual change. 
The elements of the proposal were intended to both improve the quality of debate in the Council and to facilitate faculty participation in the delibera­tion, said Fuchs. 
Among these changes were increasing the number of elected faculty from 18 to 24. The committee hoped to in­crease the voice of faculty and, in turn, to make them more in­fluential in the Academic Council, according to Professor Suzanne Marilley. 
"The faculty wanted to be prominent in the deliberation of where we should go," added O'Connor.· 
There was some debate, how­ever, about how such a restruc­turing would increase the influ­ence of the faculty in the delib­eration of academic issues, Marilley said. In 1984, in fact, the Academic Council voted to reduce the size of the Council to two-thirds of its original size in order to facilitate discussion, according to Malloy. 
Castellino said that there is no reason to revert to the larger structure of the council. Expanding the number of elected faculty in order to gain a greater majority of elected faculty sets up an unn~essary 
see FACULTY/ page 4 

Kelly, Carrier win GSU elections 
By MAURA HOGAN participation from the grass­roots level, Carrier said. 
News Writer 
"We would like to
Mike Kelly and David spearhead initiatives at theCarrier defeated the ticket of 

graduate student level toKurt Mills and Patrick 
avoid being seen as a distant
McKinlay yesterday in the 
body of governors," he said. 
Graduate Student Union 
"We also would like to im­(GSU) elections, garnering 90 

prove relations between
votes in favor of their child 
graduate students and theand healthcare platform. 
undergrads,"added Kelly. "IMills and McKinlay captured 
think there is a
the remaining 66 votes. 
misunderstanding between
Due to ambiguity and low 

the [two groups] regarding
publicity, "out of 1,200 gradu­
research. We were un­
ate students, the 15 percent 
dergrads once, and we are
voter turnout was not 
available as a resource [to the 
surprising or unexpected," 
undergrads]."
according to Tony Hazbum, Both Kelly and Carrier said election commissioner. 
they feel very strongly aboutAs president and vice-presi­
their platform of improveddent of the graduate student 
child and healthcare, and aregoverning body, Kelly and eager to follow up on the
Carrier plan to reorganize studies conducted by the
and consolidate the GSU administration in order to 
see GSU/ page 7 

incorporate more 
P-----------------------------------------------------~~-----------------------------------------------------­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
'New left' needs right motives 

With the end of the century drawing near, the 
U.S. and the world find themselves suddenly confronting the socioeconomic ramifi­cations of our past. 
We find ourselves faced with depletion of the ozone layer over our 
heads, not just over ---==:..:....___ penguins at the South Pole. We have just begun to realize the extent of the ecological damage we've created in becoming the world's only superpower. 
Those of us that find ourselves on the po­
litical left see a slow, but ever growing trend 
of former moderates and conservatives 
wading across the mainstream into becoming 
the despised "L" word (liberal). It is a 
defection of sorts, caused in part by the 
realization that not everyone is as well off 
now as they were twelve years ago; the rich 
are richer, the poor are still poor and their 
numbers still grow. 
What is Notre Dame's place in this trend to 
the left? Undeniably, we are a conservative 
campus, but we are also predominantly a 
Christian campus, with a graduate, un­
dergraduate and faculty composition. 
Christianity, and Notre Dame as a Christian place, should not dictate political ideologies. Hather, it mandates us to follow the "bleeding heart" of Christ, in so much as we struggle to live the Gospel and follow Christ's example of righteousness living, even in His humility. Why should anyone be ashamed of trying to model their heart after Christ. 
David Horowitz, in his recent campus lec­ture "Deconstructing the Left," recognized that many of the ideals touted by the radicals of the 1960's ended up causing more problems than they solved, despite the good intentions. He cited how the South Vietnamese people were victim to greater oppression due to U.S. withdrawal from the war and from the Communist regime that soon thnreafter conquered that country. 
He implied that the left protested most often just to protest and often failed to think out all the consnquences of what they stood for. 
The sexual revolution, he said, was re­sponsible for many problems currently in our society. He said that homosexuals in that time period were as promiscuous as heterosexuals, and the left felt that no one should be allowed to dictate another's lifestyle. As a result, AIDS was rampantly being spread long before it was identified-all because of certain leftist ideas about the sexual revolution and "personal freedoms." 
As the new political left forms today and in years to come, those leading it and those joining it must realize that their idealism must be balanced with practicality. 
Whatever one's political ideology, there remains a factor more important, more challenging and more compelling than any political view. However the country's young intellectuals swing their political views, we must all dedicate our idealism to reflection upon Christ, Ghandi, and King. Good inten­tions can backfire, but Christ's example cannot if we keep the faith. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
JOHN ROCK 
Managing Editor 

Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
I 

i 
::: ..---------------------------------------, 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  43  31  
Athens  66  57  
Bogota  70  46  
Boston  56  40  
Cairo  77  55  
Chicago  39  25  
Cleveland  39  25  
Dallas  58  40  
Denver  56  37  
Green Bay  38  25  
Havana  73  47  
Indianapolis  42  28  
Jerusalem  64  46  
Lewisburg  59  33  
London  48  41  
Madrid  57  41  
Minneapolis  36  23  
Moscow  45  27  
Nashville  48  33  
New York  56  37  
Paris  52  45  
Philadelphia  61  35  
Rome  59  50  



The Observer 

Production 
Peggy Crooks Bryan Nowicki 
News 
Sandy Wiegand Bevin Kovalik 
Sports 
Jason Kelly 
Friday's Staff Etc. 
Meredith McCullough Pat Moran 
Lab Tech. 
Macy Hueckel 
Systems 
Harry Zembilias 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Frida~April3, 1992 



FORECAST: 
Partly cloudy and · cold with a 70 percent chance of snow. High 40. Partly sunny and cold Saturday, high 
near 40. 


TEMPERATURES: 

WORLD Iraq holding over 700 prisoners 
•CAIRO, Egypt -Kuwait reports Iraq is still holding more than 700 prisoners, though that's down from an earlier estimate of more than 2,000, the Arab League says. Asaad al-Asaad, the league's assistant secretary­
general, said Thursday that he delivered the new Kuwaiti list to Nabil Najim, I\aq's permanent representative to the Cairo-based organizatio. Terming it Kuwait's "final list," al-Asaad said it contains the names of 723 people, compared to the earlier Kuwaiti estimate of 2,101 prisoners. Kuwait says the prisoners have been held in Iraq since the Iraqi invasion of the emirate in August 1990. A U.S.-led military coalition drove Iraqi forces from Kuwait the following February. 

Titanic captain negligent 
•LONDON -The captain of a ship that was near the sinking Titanic should have tried to save the more than 1,500 people who died, even though he probably couldn't have done anything, an official inquiry concluded Thursday. The captain's son viewed the report as partial exoneration for a man "portrayed as a liar and a drunk­ard, the baddie in a great drama." The report disagreed with an official finding in 1912 that said Capt. Stanley Lord of the Californian might have saved everyone if he had responded quickly after the Titanic hit an iceberg. The report, presented by Capt. Peter Marriott, chief inspector of marine accidents for the Department of Transport, said Lord saw the Titanic's distress signals, but did not take proper action. 



OF INTEREST 

•"Open Mlc Night" will be held at the Saint Mary's Coffee House Saturday from 10 p.m. to 12 p.m. All performers will be entered into a drawing for two $10 gift certificates from Macri's. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ April 2 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 191,580,000 225.89 • .50 ~........__:s.&l COMPOSITE 399.34 --11 0.23 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,256.93 -f 4.03 
PRECIOUS METALS 

GOLD • $ .80 to $342.90/oz. 
SILVER .. 4.0¢ to $4.103/oz. 






NATIONAL 

City demolishes wrong house 
•PHILADELPHIA -The city contends it had every right to begin destroying 39 rickety rowhouses on a drug­infested block, even though one leveled building apparently was occupied by its owner. Helen Anthony,_ 59, returned home from work Tuesday to find narcotics officers and work crews standing near the rubble that had been her home for 23 years. Her family could salvage only a few items -a wedding picture, a television and some clothes. City officials said they thought it was abandoned and that police had found bloody heroin needles on the first floor where Anthony's late husband once operated a fish store. Also, city inspection crews said the masonry bulged dangerously and a stairway was falling apart. It looked like only squatters inhabited the building, they said. 

Tyson agrees to volunteer work 
•INDIANAPOLIS 
-Boxer Mike Tyson has volunteered for work details at the Reception­Diagnostic Center. Tyson's prison tasks could be janitorial work such as cleaning rooms or helping out in the kitchen, correction department spokesman Kevin Moore said Wednesday. "A lot of inmates volunteer for work. It makes the time go faster," Moore said. Tyson also agreed to take tests to help counselors learn his educational level and understand his personality. Today Tyson ends the first week of his six­year prison term for the sexual attack on Desiree Washington, a then-18-year-old contestant in the Miss Black America pageant. 

•stop 
smoking sessions begin on Monday in the Sorin Room of LaFortune Student Center from 12 p.m. to 1 p.m. Interested people should call Peggy Weissert at 239-5389. More programs will be offered as needed. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1865: Union forces occupied the Confederate capital of Richmond, Va., during the Civil War. 

• 
In 1882: The notorious outlaw Jesse James was shot to death in St. Joseph, Mo., by Robert Ford, a member of his own gang. 

• 
In 1948: President Truman signed the Marshall Plan, which allocated more than $5 billion in aid for 16 European countries. 

• 
In 1979: Jane Byrne became the first woman to be elected mayor of Chicago, as she defeated Republican Wallace Johnson. 


The Observer 

Friday, April 3, 1992 page 3 



Faculty consider their role in university governance 
Editor's Note: The following is the fourth in a series of articles adressing the issue of faculty participation in the academic governance of the University. 
By DAVID KINNEY News Editor 
The faculty's demand for an increased role in academic gov­ernance is rooted in questions about the traditional gover­nance of the University and its Catholic identity. 
Faculty believe that the University does not treat them with the respect that they war­rant as the center of the aca­demic realm. "As a group," said Father David Burrell, a profes­sor of philosophy, "we feel that we should have a significant say in what an institution ... is all about academically." 
"If a university is to be a uni­versity at all," he said, "deliberation -that is, dis­cussing and deciding -about the shape of an educational en­vironment ought to include the faculty." 
Notre Dame is traditionally governed by a top-down admin­istrative structure, contrary to the operation of other institu­tions of higher learning, ac­cording to Professor William Tageson. 
There are, however, several areas where the faculty have a lot of power over governance issues, including deciding on curriculum within their aca­demic departments and making recommendations for appoint­ments and promotions of faculty and promotions, according to Provost Timothy O'Meara. "Virtually all of the recommen­dations" that come from faculty committees are accepted, he said. 
However, as the University's faculty improves in quality, more will question why they do not have as much say in the larger academic issues as at other universities. 
Professor Philip Quinn, who taught at Brown University, said that at other universities, "a good administration provides leadership, ... but has to provide reasons for its deci­sions." 
University President Father Edward Malloy, however, em­phasized that the difference between universities lies in what can be transferred from one institution to another and what is unique about a given institution. 
"One of the reasons why we have some things which distin­guish us is connected to the identity and mission of the University," he said. "In the midst of what is a healthy and 

PARTICIPATION GOVERNANCE Part 4 of 4 
thriving University we need to assure that we do not lose our core values and the fundamen­tal realities that bind us to­gether." 
Several faculty members have expressed concern about the in­tent of Malloy's veto as ex­pressed in his letter published in The Observer Feb. 17. 
In that letter, he said that "There are certain aspects of Notre Dame which are distinc­tive if not unique. Foremost among these is our Catholic identity. This must be preserved at all costs." 
O'Meara emphasized that this does not mean that the identity is static. "It changes with time, it changes even as the Church changes." 
Many faculty believe that for Notre Dame to be a great Catholic University, they must be among those working on that project, he said. 
O'Connor, among others, said that the faculty believes that this excludes them from the University's Catholic mission. While he said that he believes that the Holy Cross Fathers must be a central player in the administration, the faculty must also be a part of the mission to protect Notre Dame's Catholic identity. 
"There will be no way of be­ing a Catholic University unless the faculty are part of that en­deavor," said Burrell. 
"The core of Malloy's argu­ment," said O'Connor, "was that the reorganization of the Academic Council so that it could be more active ... is some sort of threat to Notre Dame's Catholic identity." 
If the faculty perceives this to be the case, a number of nega­tive consequences could result, O'Connor said. This attitude implies that "the president thinks that there is a basic in­compatibility between Catholicism and the values that the faculty has devoted their lives to,: and could lead the faculty to become cynical of the concept of a Catholic mission. 
"If this is true, then Notre Dame is in deep, deep trouble," O'Connor said. 
Quinn agreed. "The only peo­ple that can make it a Catholic university are the faculty and the students in the classroom ... If it is going to be that the only people who can protect this is the administration, then the Catholic identity is doomed." 
O'Meara, however, attempted to clarify this point of view. In the past, he said, decisions about how to execute the Catholic mission have been made by the Holy Cross Fathers, the founding religious order of the University. 
In the last 20 years, since the Board of Trustees became a board of laymen, the responsi­bility has become a dual part­nership between the laity and the Holy Cross Fathers, he said. 
"But if the whole question is lent to the faculty at large," he continued, "we have a lot of evolution to go through before we are ready to claim that we (the faculty) have a special re­sponsibility. An imprint has not been made on the faculty at large that would enable us to successfully undertake this re­sponsibility" at this time. 
O'Meara emphasized that most faculty, including himself, have a strong desire to see the Catholic identity continue. However, "if you took faculty that were totally prepared by secular universities, do they have it in their make-up to exe­cute this for the future?" 
"I don't distrust the faculty individually or as a group," said Malloy. "But people of good will can disagree about what structure for the University ­in terms of its distinctive identity -are important." 
We're Putting Drugs Out Of Business 
Partnership for A Drug-Free America 
Roses are red, Violets are blue, PY BIRTHDAY TRISHSTAGER We all love you! 

Happy 22nd! Love, Michelle, Jenny, Michelle, Laura, and Kristen 



BRUNO'S PIZZA 18" Pizza
' 
2 ITEM LIMIT 
$12.00 



288-3320 

Available 7 days a week 
Banquet Rooms Available for 50-1 00 students Special Student Discount wI Stud. ID 
$3.00 Drink Pitchers 



Butrus makes first presidential address, Blanco gives his last 
By TRAVIS SMITH 
News Writer 

Greg Butrus made his first student body address as presi­dent yesterday, and discussed his and Vice President Molly O'Neill's plans for their term in office. 
Butrus stressed the impor­tance of recognizing that date rape occurs at Notre Dame and that steps need to be taken to~ wards preventing it. Working with the Campus Life Council, Butrus said he hopes to get an immediate response to the problem. 
"We'd like to develop a plan with Student Affairs so that they could get together with student leaders and student media every few months to dis­cuss statistics about sexual 
For

Hertz 

Do-lt-Yourself 
PEIIISKE 

Moves Local • one way 
Truck Rental 


10 II. Vans 141l Vans 11 11. Vans 2411. Vans 1-2 Rooms 2-3 Rooms 4-5 Rooms 6-8 Rooms 
Low Rates • Free Unlimited Mileage on One Way Rentals 
• Air Condolioning and Aulomaloc Transmossoon • New. Clean. Top-Maonlaoned Models 
• Buill-In Loadong Ramps • 24-Hour Emergency Road Servoce. 7 Days a Week 
• Full Line of Moving Accessories Including: Tow Dollies. Hand Trucks. Pads and Gallons • Free Moving Guode • Prolccl•on Plans • Most MaJor Crcd•t Cards Accepted 



Elkhart 
2220 Toledo Rd. (Hwy. 20 East) 
293-5681 
"Ask for your 10% student discount" 
For One Way Reservations. Ca111-800-222-0277 
• Penske Truck leasmg Co 1991 

crimes on campus, thereby in­creasing awareness," said Butrus, adding that he plans to reduce the confusion in DuLac's description of the University's process after a rape occurs. 
Butrus also stressed the im­portance of student awareness in policies made by the administration. 
"Many policies are made without the input from stu­dents. No student policy should be made without student input. We think the administration should agree to this proposi­tion," Butrus said. 
Butrus said that presently University Libraries is consider­ing banning food and drinks from the library. He said he is opposed to this, but also feels that the issue should be made known to the student body and students should be involved in the decision. 
Butrus also said he plans to work with law school stu­dents to make a legal service a central resource for students for consultation regarding their local legal problems. 
The address was opened by Dave Fiorenza, this year's vice presidenL Former presi­dent, Joseph Blanco, then spoke and performed the symbolic passing of the gavel to President Butrus. Vice President O'Neill rounded out the speaking. 
Take the Keys. Call a Cab. Take a Stand. Friends Don't Let Friends Drive Drunk. 
page 4 


Casey 
continued from page 1 
Presidency because the party refuses to "take the high ground" on the value issues such as abortion. Casey used the 1988 election as an exam­ple, alleging that although the people preferred Dukakis on programmatic issues, Dukakis could not convince the elec­torate that he cared about val­ues. 
Pro-life Democrats must take a solid stand to demonstrate to 
SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, MARCH 30 
9:50 a.m. A University faculty member reported the theft of his unlocked bicycle from the basement of the Presbytery. 
10:13 a.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported the theft of his meal card. 
10:54 a.m. Notre Dame Security and Notre Dame Fire assisted an injured University employee who had fallen in Pasquerilla East. The victim was transported by ambulance to Saint Joseph Medical Center. 
2:25 p.m. Notre Dame Security discovered a vehicle that had been broken into in the C-1 parking lot. The car stereo had been taken from the vehicle. 
5:30 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident reported the theft of his walkman from the Riley Art Building. 
7:40 p.m. A Saint Mary's College student reported the theft of her bookbag from the South Dining Hall. 
7:45 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of his gym bag from the Loftus Center. 
8:54 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of his compact disc player from the Riley Art Building. 
11 :37 p.m. Notre Dame Security cited an Indianapolis resident for travelling 47 mph in a 30 mph zone on Edison Road. 
TUESDAY, MARCH 31 
1:45 a.m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of his unlocked bicycle from the west side bike rack at the Hesburgh Library. 
7:37 a.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of her wallet from her briefcase while she was at Allegro's in LaFortune. 
10:41 a.m. Notre Dame Security assisted in the transport of an ill Flanner Hall resident from the Student Health Center to St. Joseph Medical Center. 
4:26 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported that his car had been broken into and his car stereo stolen while his vehicle was parked in Red Field. 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1 
1:30 a.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of his wallet from the basement locker room of the Rockne Memorial Building. 
7:34 a.m. Notre Dame Security received a report that the sign had been stolen from outside of Allegro's in LaFortune. 
The Observer 
Faculty 
continued from page 1 

confrontational mentality. Instead, everyone's interests should be for the good of the University, he added. 
Malloy also expressed oppo­sition to increasing the number of faculty on the Council be­cause it would alter the blend of faculty, administration and students, a composition that serves the interests of Notre Dame. 
"I think the nature of the de­cision-making apparatus of the University about academic poli­cies ... is best served by that kind of composition," he said. 
The proposal approved by the Council also called for the cre­ation of a number of standing committees. These would be able to examine issues more closely and to provide the rest of the council with more infor­mation so that it could make more informed decisions, ac­cording to Fuchs. 
"Many times," he continued, "I vote in a vacuum." Castellino said that a lot of 
the millions of American voters that the Democratic Party is the party of life, added Casey. 
"We, Democrats, must fight for life with the same passion that Democrats throughout history have fought for liberty," said Casey. "If the national Democratic Party and its can­didates offer a strong value­oriented message," he said, "the people will welcome them back into their homes and into faculty members are not inter­ested in participating in the committees, and expressed concern that a small minority of individuals would be involved. 
"I sense that some of the con­cern about the Academic Council," said Malloy, "is that people are trying to make it do 
are to be successful in November, Casey said. "My party will never succeed unless we can reach into the 
something it wasn't set up to do." However, faculty and Administration members, in­cluding Malloy, are concerned with its operation. 
'The quality of discussion can 
be vastly improved," said 
Provost Timothy O'Meara, "but 
there is a certain culture (in the 
Council) that prevents this." 
Dean Eileen Kolman of Freshman Year of Studies said that the Council could use its time better within its present structure. However, "if the Academic Council is the pri­mary academic governance that the faculty participate in, then then the way that it is function­ing at present leaves something to be desired," she added. 
Malloy said that while the blend of the Council is well­suited to its operation, "where I think the Academic Council needs to improve its functioning is in the quality of conversation about various dimensions of the academic life which are not legislative but evaluative." 
Malloy has discussed the pos­sibility of creating a "third thing," a body resulting from the work of and modeled after the Colloquy for the Year 2,000. "I believe we need another vehicle," he said, "to look at philosophical questions, not necessarily to move to legislation but to ask 'How are we doing?' or 'What are the central issues?'" 
The goals of the body would include improved communica­tion, wider consultation, healthy discussion and the for­mation of a consensus, accord-
Friday, April 3, 1992 
ing to Malloy. 
Some faculty, however, do not think that such a body is the answer to their concerns, in­cluding Paul Conway, chair of the Faculty Senate. "How is this going to increase meaning­ful faculty participation?" ask<~d Fuchs. 
The body, if modeled after the Colloquy, would have a com­pletely inappropriate structure, according to Professor Neal Delany, because it would in­clude members outside of the academic core of the University. 
"The president's proposal is simply irrelevant to the faculty's concerns," said O'Connor. "He proposed something that would not address academics only. It is a strange structure for a University that takes academics to be at its heart." 
"We had a specific proposal," added Father David Burrell, a philosophy professor, "and the president countered with a vague allusion." 
Malloy, however, said that he has been as open-ended and open-minded about the third body as possible. "I have no objections to the group having a majority of faculty on it, but it should include students, staff and a small number of adminis­trators." 
"In my judgement, we have a great opportunity here," he said. The Colloquy, in coopnra­tion with the Academic Council and the proposed third body "would allow for deliberation in that sense to an extent that is very unusual on American uni­versity campuses." 


---------------. 
The Observer 

Friday, April 3, 1992 page 5 
Delegate: Arabs, Israelis will meet 
By AMY GREENWOOD Saint Mary's News Editor 
The fourth round of Middle East peace talks should proceed as planned, according to Michael Shiloh, deputy chief of mission at the Israeli embassy. 
"If all goes well, I think that there is no reason why we will not meet again in Washington on the 27th of April," Shiloh said at a news conference Thursday. Although the two groups have not reached an agree­ment, Shiloh said he feels they have made significant progress. 
"The mere fact that Arabs and Israelis can get together under one roof and speak without third parties for many, many hours as well as breathe the same air is something that, for 43 years, was unthinkable and unbe­lievable," he said. 
Shiloh, who serves on the Israeli Delegation, said both the Israelis and the Palestinians have discussed an interim arrangement for five years of self rule. Each group has submitted a plan to the other, but a large gap exists between the groups' demands, he said. 
"Nobody among us and among Americans should think that this is a matter that can be solved in weeks or even months," Shiloh said, "lt will take many years." Syria has created one ob­stacle to the peace process, according to Shiloh, who claimed that "the Syrians are not interested in a peace treaty and have been reluctant to even use the word peace. They believe that peace is for the next generation or the generation after." 
Shiloh also addressed 
U.S. allegations that Israel had shared Patriot missile technology with China, predicting that the U.S. Delegation will not come up with any evidence that Israel negotiated with the Chinese. 
Shiloh is the highest ranking Israeli official ever to visit South Bend, according to the Notre Dame public relations of­fice. Born in Hague, Holland in 1934, Shiloh emigrated to. TeLAviv J)}~t,,,,,,,,,,, 

following year. ·..,,·.,.·. ;;~ Aftergraduating from tht: Hebrew UniVersity of Jerusalem, Shiloh served ,,, as director of the Berth~: Berl Institute for Adult Educati9Jl f'or .. thr~E)Yea.fS·. ''"' He then joined th~ Israeli'' Ministry. of Foreign Affairs where be has served ever since. He has represented the Israeli g9verriinent i embassies and consulate in New York. Tokyo. Bonn, , " and Boston. if ' ''') 'iiic,l,l11'i!i, 
COMEDY CARAVAN EVERY WEDNESDAY with National Touring Comedians 
And ... of course...the BEST live music in town 
This Friday 8 Saturday April3 and 4 
9:00pm 
277-1727 
ND Favorite Band "FREDDY JONES" 


Manchester students h_elp colleagues resolve conflicts 
By GERALDINE HAMILTON News Writer 
Reconciliation services and a diversity workshop have been tools for maintaining peace at Manchester College, according to Gary Zimmerman, chairman of Psychology and head of the college's Mediation Service. 
Zimmerman discussed peace­ful means for resolving conflicts on college campuses yesterday in a lecture titled, "Solving Campus Conflicts Through Mediation." Several Manchester College students who are involved with the Mediation Service also participated. 
Zimmerman and the students recently started The Manchester College Reconciliation Service (MCRS), which trains volunteers to act as unbiased conciliators of con­flicts in which students at the college are involved. 
"Conflict is natural and there is a need to work with human ways of dealing with conflict," Zimmerman said. "Conflict has the danger of brokenness and the opportunity for goodness," he said. 
Although conflict is generally perceived as negative, he said, it can be an extremely en­riching growth experience. He defined mediation as in­volvement with two sides who are attempting to work through their problems, and said conciliation is "building or rebuilding a relationship so the disputants themselves can then agree to address their differ­ences." 
The work of the mediator "more often focuses on the set­tlement of the specific conflict," Zimmerman said. 
When asked to help resolve a conflict, he said, an MCRS member questions those in­volved and decides whether the group can be of service. If all parties agree to be involved, a meeting is set up, he said. 
There is a small trained lis­tening panel consisting of three to five students who work on a volunteer basis, Zimmerman said. In the first phase of the meeting, the panel listens to each party tell his story and clarify important issues. 
In the second phase, the op­posing parties speak directly to each other explaining their views of the conflict, he said. Then the panel and the parties review what has been said and the panel assists the parties in reaching a specific solution to their conflict. The parties then sign a non-legal contract stating the resolutions reached, Zimmerman said. 
Students said MCRS's main goal is to facilitate communica­tion, and success is not judged by how well people like each other, but by whether or not the problem was resolved. 
MCRS has 30 active volun­teers and has listened to 15 cases, 100 percent of which have ended successfully in reso­lution, Zimmerman said. 
According to Zimmerman, all cases are strictly confidential. Most come to the MCRS though the students involved in the conflict or residence life staff contacting the service, he said. 
Zimmerman, who is promot­ing the spread of this type of program, said reconciliation services "can have an impact that will ripple." 
The Manchester students also spoke about a Celebrating Diversity Workshop which helps build better understanding between varied groups of people. 
According to a Manchester student, the skills that are learned in the workshop are identifying the misconceptions learned about other groups and learning the personal impact of specific incidents of discrimina­tion. 
There are 100 people at each workshop and Zimmerman said, "in a few hours 100 people can be impacted positively in a non-confrontational manner, where bridges are built." 
Native American students planning Powwow to celebrate their heritage 
By MARA DIVIS Student Association's Powwow at Stepan Center Saturday, according to the group's co­presidents Deswood Etsitty and 
Native American students will LaVern Yazzie. 
celebrate their heritage through The fourth annual Powwow, 
dance at the Native American which will involve traditional 
• ~.. ~ .,.,£ ~'\...-.-Chinese-American 
~~ '-a'tt""' .. nJ Restaurant & 'UA'L Cocktail Lounge 
ll" rll. Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $3.95 Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 Voted Best Banquet rooms available for up to 200 Oriental Restaurant in Michiana by
130 Dixie Way S., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 
Miclziana Now 

NOTRE DAME CoMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 
THURSDAY, APRIL 9 8:10 PM fRIDAY, APRIL10 8:10 PM SATURDAY, APR!Lll 8:10 PM SUNDAY, APRIL12 3:10PM ; 
.., WASHINGTON HALL 
RESERVED SEATS $7, 
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT 

THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT 
THE LAfORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
TICKET OFFICE. MAsTERCARD AND 
VISA ORDERS CALL 239-8128 

STUDENTS AND SENIOR CITIZEN 
DISCOUNTS ARE AVAILABLE FOR 
WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY AND 
SUNDAY PERFORMANCES. 

dancing, is geared toward promoting and sharing the cul­ture of Native Americans in the communities of both Notre Dame and the Michiana area, Etsitty said. 
"It's our way of sharing our culture. The meaning behind the whole thing is sharing our beliefs with others," Etsitty said. 
The event will consist of a grand entry, in which tradi­tional dancers will enter and display their individual tribal dances. Intertribal dances for anyone interested in dancing will follow, Yazzie said. This year the group will sponsor a contest for men's, women's, and intertribal divisions, Yazzie said. 
Also on the agenda is an arts and crafts fair open to the public. The fair will sponsor a raffie between each dance per­formance, Yazzie said. 
According to Etsitty, the Powwow is the Native American Student Association's largest event for the year. 
"We're a pretty small group," Etsitty said. "This is our biggest event, and we depend on a lot of support from groups on campus. Everyone is welcome," he said. 
The Powwow will begin with the dancers' grand entrance at 12 p.m. and dancing will last throughout the day. 
FUN FACT 

Approximately 37 percent of the calories in the average American diet are from fat, the American Heart Association says. In order to decrease ttie risk of atherosclerosis, heart attack and stroke, the AHA recommends less than 30 percent of calories come from fat. 


-----~------~--·~ -_, -·--­
page 6 The Observer 
Brown heckled by Jewish group for considering running with Jackson 
NEW YOHK (API -Democrat Jerry Brown came in for a tu­multuous round of heckling Thursday from members of a Jewish community group over his choice of civil rights leader Jesse Jackson as a potential running mate. 
"I understand the depth of concern in the Jewish commu­nity," said Brown, dearly caught off guard by the sharp criticism at a campaign ap­pearance before the Jewish Community Relations Council. 
Brown's remarks were inter­rupted by state Assemblyman Dov Hikind who urged about 200 people on hand not to "sit quietly and listen to this." 
"You insult the Jewish com­munity by picking Jesse Jack­son," Hikind told the former California governor. 
The angry lawmaker was 

Clinton more vulnerable to character attacks than Bush to criticism of record 
WASIIINGTON (API -Demo­cratic presidential front-runner Bill Clinton is more vulnerable to attacks on his character than President Bush is to criticism of his record in office, according to a nationwide poll released Thursday. 
The poll, the latest in a series by the Times Mirror Center for The People and The Press, questioned three separate sam­ples of the public last week. 
One sample was a traditional, neutral matchup of Bush and Clinton. But in a second sample, people were first asked a series 
Roses $10.00 a Dozen Maternowski Farmers Market 
105 N. DixieWa • Roseland 
IF 
THE
SHOE
FITS,
you·re lucky! But If it doesn't, Emie's can fix it for you! Our experienced shoe technicians will fit you to the proper shoe for your needs. We stock such brands as Birkenstock and New Balance. In order to offer you the best selection possible. Stop in today and we'll put you back on your feet! 
~ I'I:~ENTER 
& SIIOE REI'AIR 

18121 State Route 23 • (219) 273-2124 M-F 8-5:30, Sat 8-4 

asked to leave the room and two members of the group escorted him to the door, but others in the audience made it plain they were unhappy with the choice of Jackson. He was hissed momentarily and heck­lers sounded off throughout the 30-minute session. 
The episode demonstrated Brown's problem among Jewish voters who account for an es­timated 30 percent of the vote in a New York Democratic pri­mary. 
In key primaries this year, Brown trailed Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton and former Sen. Paul Tsongas of Massachusetts among Jewish voters. 
But in Connecticut on March 24, Brown not only won the primary but received 37 percent of the Jewish vote while Clinton got 34 percent and 
of questions about Bush's han­dling of the economy, his failure to get rid of Saddam Hussein in Iraq and the breaking of his no­new-taxes pledge. A third sample was asked first about Clinton's alleged marital affairs and conflicts of interest, and his Vietnam draft status. 
In the neutral sample, Bush led Clinton 50 percent to 43 percent. When people were first reminded about the president's 
Move up to 
•MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS" 
• 
2 Bedroom Luxury Apartments (4 Apartments per Building) 

• 
Locked Entry with Intercom System 

• 
Full size Washer and Dryer for each Apartment 

• 
Pool and Clubhouse facilities 

• 
6 minutes from Campus 

• 
Flexible lease terms . Bring in this Ad for $50 off 1st months rent 


For further information call 277-3731 Located at Cleveland and Bendix 

Store Your Stuff ! 
(for the summer) 

failures in the job, Bush's mar­gin was cut to 48-45. 
But in the sample asked first about Clinton's character is­sues, Bush's margin climbed to 15 points-54 to 39 percent. 
Andrew Kohut said the outcome "does represent the potential the Republican Party has in a campaign situation to further worsen the public image of Bill Clinton." 
Tsongas 25 percent. 

Jackson's own campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination in 1984 was marked by tensions over re­marks that were taken by many Jews to be anti-Semitic and anti-Israel. 
"That is not an opinion held universally by Jewish people," Jackson said while taping an appearance on the Phil Don­ahue television show. "During this time of polarity we need to have the will to build bridges. I would hope that blacks and Jews would work together." 
But Brown has a number of times named Jackson as his choice as a running mate and said the civil rights leader is qualified both because of his experience and because he could help to heal America's racial tensions. 
Friday, April 3, 1992 

Cuomo: vote for a real candidate 
ALBANY, N.Y. {AP) -Gov. Mario Cuomo said Thursday that it was time to take "none of the above" out of the Democratic presidential race. 
"The notion that it will be someone else, that there will be a brokered convention, should be struck from every· one's consideration because it's probably not going to happen and it should not happen," Cuomo said. 
Cuomo ended years of speculation about a presi· dential bid on Dec. 20, saying a state budget battle that has since ended kept him from running this year. 
Cuomo asked Democrats to choose either Bill Clinton or Jerry Brown and said, "It is time to take Mr. Nota out of the race. Mr. Nota is N.O.T.A. -none of the above." 
Some Cuomo supporters have said they would like to see a brokered convention so 
Happy 19th Birthday John Wensinger Our Favorite Little German Irishman 

Love, Mom, Dad, Ben, David and Sadie 
the New York governor could 
have a shot at gaining the 
nomination. 
Asked if he were completely out of the race, Cuomo said: "I'm not in it." 
"There are only two pos­sibilities -being in the race and being out of the race," Cuomo added. "I am not in it, therefore I am out of it." 
Cuomo, who plans to meet with Clinton on Saturday. said the Arkansas governor "is very close to locking (the nomination) up already." 
Nonetheless, Cuomo said the race for Tuesday's New York primary remains "a horserace." 
Cuomo also predicted that if Clinton won the nomination, his enduring the character questions would be an asset because he would have ~raced it and faced it down." 



Friday, April 3, 1992 
TB at an 'alarming stage' in New York 
DECATUR, Ga. (AP) Tuberculosis has reached an alarming stage in New York City, but nationwide the dis­ease's comeback seems to have slowed, TB specialists said Thursday. 
The nation reported 26,283 cases in 1991, up 2.3 percent from 1990, according to the 
U.S. Centers for Disease Control. That's a. far milder in­crease than a year earlier, when the contagious and deadly lung disease jumped 9.4 per­cent, by far the biggest increase ever. 
"I don't think the shape of a couple of percentage points means anything in terms of di­rection," Dr. George Cauthen of the CDC told the agency's Advisory Committee on the Elimination of Tuberculosis at a meeting in suburban Atlanta. "I couldn't tell you what next year will be." 
"I have some concerns as to whether we're hearing about all the tuberculosis," added Dr. Dixie Snider, director of the CDC's TB division. "Our opinion is there are a lot more out­breaks ... than we know about." 
Tuberculosis, once a dreaded plague, fell sharply in the decades following the invention of antibiotic drug therapy. U.S. cases fell from about 84,000 in 1953 to 22,000 in 1985. 
But the disease then began a resurgence, preying largely on people whose systems are al­ready weakened by the AIDS virus. And the disease ·is in­creasingly appearing in forms resistant to the most commonly used TB drugs, greatly compli­cating treatment. 
Tuberculosis is spread through the air by those with active TB, usually by coughing or sneezing. Infection occurs after prolonged exposure, putting those in close quarters with TB patients at greatest risk. An estimated 10 million Americans are infected, but most will never become ill, and do not pose a threat to others. 
In New York City-which ac­counted for as much as one in six U.S. TB cases in preliminary reporting last year -a study found 34 percent of tuberculo­sis cases resistant to at least one anti-TB drug. The report for 1991 found 3,685 cases. The previous year, the city had 3,554 cases, the CDC said. 
The problem is especially acute among New York's poor and homeless. A Harlem Hospital study found 89 percent of TB patients never finished their therapy and thus were at risk to infect untold others. 
"We ought to make a com­pelling cry for help for New York City," said Dr. Michael Iseman of Denver, a member of the CDC's TB council. "The sit­uation really is at the meltdown stage." 
"The potential is there," Snider said, noting that New York is the nation's "epicenter of homelessness and the epicenter of the AIDS epidemic." 
The Observer 


•••••••••••••••••••••••••• bring to the administration 
more concrete proposals re-said, "Especially in Arts andAttention: Faculty, garding the childcare issue. Letters." He said, "The $8000 Regarding healthcare, Carrier annual stipend is barely ade­
Professors and Graduate 

said the pair hopes the quate to meet basic human Students Administration will begin to needs. With two kids, this "treat them more like full­
forces one's annual income to
Live in Luxury in the heart of Downtown South Bend 
fledged employees than inden-half the poverty line." 
Ask about our Spring Special!! 2 bedroom apartments starting at $57 5 only a few left ••• 

Tvw~ & tvu~iEvr $3.50 
All Shows 

____...., 2340 N. Hickory Rd. • 259-9090 Before 6 pm 
• 
Swimming Pool 

• 
Tennis Court 

• 
Washers and Dryers 



l·waYNES BLD 

BASIC
Frl5:00, 7:30, 10:00 IPil:EJ
;, 

~Sat-Thur 12:30, 2:45,5:00, 7:30, 10:00 
287-2684
Showing Models Dally 

307 EasllaSallo Ave.
Mon. rhrouyh Fri. 9-6 
Ttl: NEW DOWNTOWN 
JOE PESCI
Sat. 10·5 
SDUih Bund
Sun. Clostd 
MY COUSIN 
VINNY
The Point At Saint Joseph­
Fri4:45, 7:15, 9:45 Sat-Thur 2:00,4:45, 7:15, 9:45 
Because ou deserve the best!! 
The Observer/Pat McHugh 

Resolving campus conflicts 
Gary Zimmerman, professor of psychology at Manchester college, speaks at a lecture yesterday about, ''Solving Campus Conflicts Through Meditation." He said that reconciliation services have been one tool for maintaining peace at the college. 
Pro-life priest: abortion is not only a women's issue 
By LYNN O'DONNELL News Writer 
Pro-life advocate Father Charles Fiori spoke yesterday on a variety of issues concern­ing abortion. 
Fiori showed the group a tiny, pink model of a baby, and called it a true representation of a fetus. "4,600 babies a day are aborted," he said. "Saying you're pro-choice is like saying you're pro-breathing." 
Abortion is everyone's prob­lem, according to Fiori. "It's not a woman's issue, because statistically about fifty percent of those killed are men. I have an interest in that," he said. 
"The bottom line is it takes two to make a life," said Fiori raising the model again, "but constitutionally it only takes one to abort it." 
tured servants." It is in every­one's best interest to improve
GSU 
health benefits beyond what he called the present "bare bones
continued from page 1 
minimum policy." Quality of Life Committee, a "Misery leads to little time 
GSU group who surveyed Notre which leads to bad teaching," Dame and Saint Mary's students Carrier said. 
on child and healthcare. For these same reasons, they Carrier said they hope to are also asking for ~·at least poverty-level income," Carrier 
'NSTINCT 

MICHAEL [!{] DOUGLAS 
Frl4:30, 7:00, 9:30 Sat-Thur 1:30,4:30, 7:00, 9:30 

According to Fiori, the out­come of this year's presidential election will influence numerous court cases pending in the Supreme court on pro-life issues. "Getting the issues away from the states is key," he said. 
Candidates in the 1992 elec­tion view abortion as the big is­sue they wish would go away, Fiori said. Bush, now pro-life, was in favor of Planned Parenthood not to long ago, Fiori said, adding that he hopes leaders will not try to ignore the issue in an election year plagued with unemployment, inflation, and bouncing checks. 
"Don't let them forget this one," Fiori adds, holding the pink fetus in his hand. "Never refer to it as an 'it.' This is a boy or a girl," he said. 
page 7 

Casey: main voter issue is abortion 
By SARAH DORAN News Writer 
Democrats must be open to discussion about abortion, conduct a national debate on the issue, and impose no litmus tests of abortion views as a condition for office, said Governor Robert Casey, D­Pennsylvania, at a press con­ference yesterday at Notre Dame. 
The Democratic Party's cur­rent pro-choice position has caused the loss of large num­bers of voters who want to vote democratic, but are against abortion, Casey said. 
"I would like to see in our (the Democratic Party's) plat­form, like the Republican plat­form, a declaration on the af­firmation of life," said Casey, "The unborn child should be the national constituency of the Democratic party and we should be fighting for this our most defenceless member." 
The Governor referred to ABC exit polls which said that the primary issue of the 1988 presidential campaign was abortion, and that one-third of the Democratic Party members favor the pro-life view. The ma­jority of these party members voted for George Bush in the election, he said. 
Casey suggested new pro­grams and policies to supple­ment his pro-life position, in­cluding the institution of re­formed day care, neonatal and nutrition programs. He said that both "assistance and al­ternatives are basic and cru­cial" to his anti-abortion stand. 
"With the obligation to pro­tect life we have the obligation to make life worth living," said Casey. 
Looking toward the Democrats' position on abor­tion in the upcoming presiden­tial election, Casey said, "This is a year in which anything can happen and so far anything has. Hopefully, the pro-life point of view will be given a seat at the table instead of be­ing counted out." 
Casey remains uncommitted in Pennsylvania's April 28 presidential primary. 

If what happened on your inside happened on your outside, would you still smoke? 
NOV 15. THE GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT. 
J 

J 
j 


page 8 The Observer Friday, April 3, 1992 


Monmouth students co!'llplain about multiple choice tests 
TRENTON, N.J. (AP)-Stu­dents at Monmouth College have a complaint about their tests.: They aren't tough enough. 
Student leaders say they ex­pect more than multiple-choice tests for their $16,500 a year for tuition, room and board. They want essays and term pa­pers instead. 
"I think by the time we grad­uate we should be able to read and write at a mature level," said Phillip Emma, a senior fi­nance and economics major who proposed tougher tests. "You don't have multiple-choice tests when you get a job." 
Many teachers support the idea, saying it should help im­prove student writing and re­search skills, cut down on cheating and better prepare graduates for their careers. 
"I see this as an ethical is­sue," said Roy L. Nersesian, an associate professor who teaches 
U.S. officials find no evidence Israel sold China military items 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A team 

of U.S. officials found no 
evidence during a fact-finding 
trip to Israel that Israel had 
secretly supplied a U.S. Patriot 
missile or its technology to 
China, the State Department 
said today. 
"We consider the matter 

closed," spokeswoman 
Margaret Tutwiler said. 
Published reports last month 
said U.S. officials had picked up 
strong indications that the 
transfers had occurred. 
Tutwiler said the department plans no further action on the matter. 
Under questioning by re­porters, she was unable absolve Israel completely of a~ wrongdoing. She refused to gt> beyond saying that the 17· member team had uncovered no evidence of such transfers. 
On a related issue, Tutwiler brushed aside questions on about an official study which said that a "major recipient" of 
U.S. weapons -identified in published reports as Israel ­may have been transferring some equipment to third coun­tries without authorization. 
The report released Wednesday by the State Department's inspector gen­eral's office said department officials assigned to monitor arms transfers had failed to act on many reports of "significant alleged violations" by the recipient country. It rec­ommended that these officials be subjected to disciplinary ac­tion. 
Theology, History, Medieval Institute 
Announcing an introductory Syriac an essential language  course in for  
Biblical Studies • Patrology  • Liturgy  

Christian Spirituality • Hagiography Historiography • Medieval Studies 
Introduction to Syriac Language and Literature MLAR 402 -Fall 1992 MWF 10:10-11:00 (followed by MLAR 500, Spring 1993) 
business management. He, Emma and college president Samuel H. Magill see poor writing skills as a nationwide problem. 
The Student Government As­sociation at the private college in West Long Branch passed a resolution Feb. 5 recommend­ing that instructors stop giving multiple-choice tests exclu­sively. 
"If we knew that most of our tests were going to be essays, we would have to improve our writing," said Nicole Cervino, a sophomore majoring in history and education. "You have to be able to at least write a complete sentence." 
The Outlook, the student newspaper, endorsed the pro­posal in an editorial noting that 45 percent of Monmouth stu­dents fail the writing profi­ciency test that was first re­quired for graduation two years ago. Of those who retake the 
The inspector general's office operates independently of State Department supervision. 
Tutwiler said the report was part of an ongoing process and was not designed to draw con­clusions. She declined to con­firm the reports that the "major recipient" was Israel and said there were differences of 
Macri's Pizza & Italian Restaurant Pizza-Pasta-Sandwiches-Stuffed Pizza Pies 
Carry out or Dine in 200A. off pizza with this ad. 52303 Emmons Rd. Georgetown Shopping Center (next to Club Shenanigan's) 
l~o.u 5o.RJ-? b:.5o-? 

test, 70 percent fail the second time. 
Several students blamed pro­fessors for relying heavily on multiple-choice tests graded by a computer. Some professors, in turn, say classes have gotten too big for them to grade many essays and papers. They also complain the resolution in­fringes on academic freedom. 
The student government pro­posal was offered to the faculty Wednesday as a non-binding resolution, leaving the decision to individual teachers, but only about two-thirds of the faculty voted for it, Nersesian said. 
"It was almost like voting against mothers," he said. 
He said he thought many in­structors would cut down on multiple-choice tests in favor of essays "because they know the students want it." 
Not all do, however -and some even argue that multiple­choice tests are harder. 
opinion" in the department about the report's findings. 
The Wall Street Journal said in a recent article that Israel was the offending country and had been selling weapons and technology without authoriza­tion to China and South Africa, among other countries. 
N 

Testimony could huri officers' cases 
SIMIVALLEY, Calif. (AP)...,. Lawyers for two of four po­licemen on trial in a mo­torist's videotaped beating elicited testimony Thursday that could damage each other's cases.. 
And a la'Wyer for a third de­fendant tried unsuccessfully 
t!> a<Unit evidence that would 
'have hurt the other three Qfllcers. Jle said that would' '"ihl!,ve beei):,,;,'their tough luck." 
!fha tawy~r . for Officer :ii!itaurence·.· Powell suggested .cer Tbeodf>te Briseno was lty,o.f stomping Rodney g.l).p;t:he neck when he dOWt1, l!. use of excessive Briseno's lawyer ,~uggested that Powell was fa'cist, a braggart and beat 
' for · ''personal vengeance," then laughed aboutit. 
Briseno and his lawyer, John Barnett, have contended that Briseno; 39, tried to stop Powell, 29; Sgt. Stacey Koon, s,41., and()fficer Timothy Wind, u 31,.. frofu •beating King after 
and tionally, setting about police 
brutality. 
Barnett squared off against 
Powell's lawyer, Michael 
Stone, during testimony of a 
police training expert, Officer 
Jerry Mulford. 
Stone asked Mulford if it 
would be proper for a police­
man to stomp a suspect who 
was down. 
"No sir," Mulford said. 
..Stomping on the neck is 
something we avoid at all 
costs...It can cause serious 
bodily injury:" 
On a videotape of the King 
beating, Briseno is seen 
stomping the back of King's 
neck. He is expected to testify 
he used his foot to try to keep 
King from moving. 
When Stone sat down, 
Barnett unleashed a volley of 
questions alluding to Powell, 
who is accused of hitting King 
the most times. He is also al­
leged to have laughed after­
wards and transmitted com­
puter messages with a racist 
context. King is black, the 
four officers white. 
Barnett askeQ if an officer 
would be justified hitting a 
suspect in the head with his 
baton. 
"No sir," Mulford said. "That's one of the areas we ·try to avoid." 

The Observer 
announces the 1992-93 
St. Mary's Staff Office Hours 
The Office is open Mondays 1 -3, Wednesday 10 -11 & 2:30 -3:30, and Tuesday and Thursday 13 -3 in 309 Haggar College Center 

~ 
~ 
~ 
~. ~ 
C/J 

DuQUESNE UNIVERSITY Summering in Pittsburgh? DUQUESNE'S 1992 SUMMER SCHEDULE OFFERS: 
" TRANSFERABLE COURSES " " ACCELERATED SESSIONS " "START DATES MAY THRU JULY" 
Ask about our wide variety of Science Courses, Language Courses and Trips! 
Registration is EASY-by FAX, phone, mail, or in person 
INTERESTED? CALL 1-800-283-3853 for your complete 
SUMMER 1992 INFORMATION PACKAGE 


Viewpoint 
Friday, April 3, 1992 page 9 



P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor .........•............ David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor........•...•..... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager .•.•••Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager .•....... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .•••..••...... Patrick Barth Photo Editor .....••..•. Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ....................• Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ..Anna Marie Tabo r Controller .........••............. David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
Could 'Governor Moonbeam' be JFK of the 90's? 
At three o'clock in the morn­ing it is impossible to say any­thing at Dave's Doughnuts without feeling as if you're ut­tering timeless profundities. That plus the tar-like coffee and greasy doughnuts are a great combination. 
Jocelyn had been trying to convince us for at least an hour that we should all help her campaign for Jerry Brown. She had this theory about Brown being to our historical situation what JFK was to his Zeitgeist. 
Jocelyn and her friend Denise had recommended the glazed jelly rolls. "They'll go with our eyes," Denise reasoned. 
We were on the third round of our highly nutritious sugar buzz. Jocelyn was saying some­thing about how Kennedy's death symbolized the American Left's loss of faith in the system. 
Of course that got Dave, the doughnut man, to recount the anecdote about how Kennedy had inadvertently called himself a jelly doughnut when he uttered his famous "Ich bin ein Berliner." Dave loves to tell that story. 
The only other patron, a cab driver at the next table who had been listening intensely to 
Andrew Cutrofello 
Subterranean Homesick Politics 
our conversation, decided it was time to throw in his two cents worth of Delphic oracular wisdom. "Hey," he began promisingly. "What if JFK knew he was calling himself a jelly doughnut? I mean, give the guy credit." 
"Let them eat cake," Denise put in. 
"Doughnuts and circuses," Jocelyn followed. "The story of history in a nutshell." 
"History belongs to the work­ers of the world," my Marxist friend Dex offered. 
"We are the world," I ob­served, savoring my first truly timeless profundity of the night. "We are the children." 
I marveled to think of what depths of profundity we might sink to. Clearly there was no room in my present Weltanschauung for even these modest insights. 
Jocelyn wanted to get back to Jerry Brown's "we, the chil­dren" kind of campaign. "The thing is, we're at a unique his­torical juncture. The world-his­torical spirit is at a crossroads, and it's up to us to point it in the right direction." 


"Jocelyn may be right," I re­flected. "After all, we belong to a generation that's lived through the fall of the Bastille Wall." I was on a roll. 
"I agree," said Dave. "It's like we're between rinse and spin in the great washing machine of history. Anyone want I should put extra glaze on this next batch of jelly rolls?" 
"Seriously," Jocelyn persisted, "think about what Jerry Brown represents. I mean, OK, he may be just another political charla­tan with a gimmicky product. And granted that his tax plan might prove to be regressive. 

DOONESBURY 
... ANl? THISSPCTION IS OUR M05THeAVIL-Y 5TAFFW. U//3 HAV/3 SIX 5QlJAI)5/A/ORKfNG 
ON ACC65SINGANl?aJPt/CilTIN3 . &VeRYPf.JBUC R/3COI?I? FOR 7H/3 5T..trT/3 OFARKIWSAS FORTH&LA5T 
13YMR5l 
/ 
== 
= 
= 
A?TON/5HING! QUffE ANOPeRA­T/ON/ /lrWJIN/3/FYOUPUT THIS K/Nl? OF &Nt;RBYANl?MANFt:Jala< 
INTO P&VCt.OPINGA POS/nve PRO­
~FOR. THb~laNTTO PUT "!Y?M. 

But he also represents our last reason for believing it's possible to bring about meaningful change within the system." 
"I know what you're saying, Jocelyn," Dex said, declining to join me in a fourth round of jelly rolls, "but that's just it. Maybe there is no real hope for change within the system. Maybe real change can only come from struggles against the system." 
Jocelyn shook her head. "Come on, Dex. Like you're go­ing to get a populist movement to overthrow this government? Not in the richest country in the world at the apex of its global hegemony." 
"No less likely than an effec­tive populist electoral move­ment," Dex replied. 
The rest of us looked at Jocelyn, waiting for her re­sponse. 
"All I'm saying," she said fi­nally, "is that we have the op­portunity to elect someone who might make a difference. We can choose to get involved or we can cynically sit this one out." 
The cabby pulled his chair up to our table. "What I hear on TV is this Brown guy is some kind of kook. Isn't he the one they used to call Governor Moonbeam?" 
"It's a media plot," Denise said. ''They don't want anybody to take Brown's campaign seri­ously so they say stuff like that." 
"When they say anything about his campaign at all," Jocelyn added. "Until the Michigan primary, the media almost completely ignored him. The New York Times gave just about zero coverage to his win in Colorado." 
"Yeah," Denise continued, "and then when they couldn't ignore him any longer they had the nerve to write an article about how the TV news hadn't been paying enough attention to the Brown campaign." 
A couple of fellow late-night travellers came in and sat 
down at the counter. Dave went over to take their order. The cab driver and I decided to split the last jelly roll. 
Dex grinned. "OK, Jocelyn, you got me. So how can I get involved in this campaign?" 
Andrew Cutrofello is a profes­sor of philosophy at Saint Mary's College. His columns appear every other Friday. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'To enter life by way of the vagina is as good a way as any.' 
Henry Miller 

Stare into the butterfly, and submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 

APRIL 3·5 
weekend calendar 
friday 
MUSIC 
Brian, Colin & VInce, Grace Coffee House, 9 p.m. Rufus Meatbone, Twist & Shout, 9 p.m. Blue Ice, Midway Tavern Mishawaka, 9:30p.m. 
Freddy Jones Band, ClubShenanigans, 10 p.m. Uraeus, Club 23, 10 p.m. Access Denied, Bridget's, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS 
Folk Dancing, Club House, Saint Mary's College, 7:30 p.m 
Latin Expressions, Hesburgh Library Auditorium, 7:30p.m "Melsenbach and Golden," Flute and harp duo, Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College, 8 p.m. 
saturday 
MUSIC Smear, Grace Coffee House, 9 p.m. Rufus Meatbone, Twist & Shout, 9 p.m. Blue Ice, Midway Tavern Mishawaka, 9:30p.m. Freddy Jones, Club Shenanigan's, 1 0 p.m. Way Past Tense, Club 23, 1 0 p.m. 
EVENTS 
PowWow, Stepan Center, Grand Entrances, Noon & 6 p.m. Magic Show, Scottsdale Mall, Noon. "The Boys Next Door," South Bend Civic Theatre, 8 p.m. 
sunday 
EVENTS 
Notre Dame String Trio, Annenburg Auditorium, 2 p.m. Notre Dame Women's Choir, Basilica of the Sacred Heart, 8 p.m. 
films 
FRIDAY 
"The Commitments," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45p.m. "Bugsy,"Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY 
"The Commitments," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45p.m. "Bugsy,"Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 

NO men reveal real 
reasons lor working out 
By MIKE HOBBES 
Accent Writer 

I 
t's that time of year again when the seeds of new growth are supposed to peer through the vast frozen tundra of the South 
Bend region. 

Granted, recently a large majority of the days have fallen prey to showers and snow falls, but these adverse weather conditions have not seemed to halt men from staying active. 
Men are involved in a plethora of activities ranging from fitness training to running to shooting hoops in preparation for the perennial Bookstore Basketball tournament. For some, the desire is to stay in top shape, for others it chance to get out and expend some energy and have fun, then there are those who just want to meet the opposite sex. 
Chris Donohoe said he finds running a excellent form of exercise that provides some scenic benefits and the possibility to see people. 
"I run six days a week," he said. "I find it relaxing to be able to get out and away from the daily rush of activities." 
Noting the high concentration of females, but lack of visual stimuli at the Joyce Athletic Convocation Center, Donohoe chooses to run outside since there are a variety of routes. 
"It gets so boring running the concourse (at the JACC) since there is all of one track and so many people, but outside is fantastic. There are the lakes, the campus loop, and even the trails to St. Mary's," said Donohoe. 
Students like John Lynch find lifting weights a very rewarding form of fitness. Lynch works out at least four days a week for a couple of hours at a time. He said that it dramatically enhances his physique and stature, but said there is a lot more to it. 
"Working out not only helps maintain 
good health, but it improves the way you 
feel about yourself. I push myself as hard 
as possible and if I'm not tired and sore at 
the end of a workout then either I did do 
it hard enough or not yet finished," Lynch 
said. 

He also emphasized the mental fortitude 
that he achieves through his workouts. 
"It gives you confidence to do just about anything, whether you want to meet the ladies or walk tall, you just feel better about yourself," said Lynch. 
Biking, whether stationary or distance, is an excellent form of aerobic exercise. 
For those that choose to stationary bike, such as stairmaster, the opportunity to interact with females is always present since it is done indoors. Others, though, will have nothing less than nature as their surroundings. Both Jason Domzal and Kevin Hardman find pleasure in the uninhibited boundaries of biking. 
"As long as there is a road and a lack of inclement weather, I'm out biking. If there were eight days in the week, I would be taking advantage of every one of them to be on the open road," said Domzal. 
"With warm weather and a little time, there is no better pleasure than going as fast as I can with the wind in my face," Hardman added. 
Both Domzal and Hardman bike between 30 and 40 miles a day. 
"Most people think of time consumption, I think of it as personal pleasure," explained Domzal. 
Another form of activity for many individuals is basketball. Rob Kuennen and Kevin Rule both play basketball at least a couple of times a week. 
Kuennen explained that he and his section mates play basketball to get away from their other duties and as a chance to hang out together not just to ogle the females pass by. 
"You're at Stepan or the JACC with your shirt off for the female passers-by and ev­erybody is out there having fun and trying to be like Mike," said Kuennen. 
Kevin Rule said he tries to play at least four or five times a week at the Hockne Memorial, but admits that the NCAA tournament drastically increases the number guys shooting on any given day. 
"You can see tons of girls and guys out 
there. They are the light-hearted players 
who just want to have fun," said Hule. 
Andy Sinn, the 1992 Bookstore 
Commissioner, reiterated most of Hule's 
comments on the natural increase in the 
sheer numbers of people playing 
basketball in the spring semester. 
"This year we have 704 teams in 
Bookstore, which is a Guiness Book 
record," said Sinn. 

Work out 
By PAIGE SMORON 
Accent Writer 
S 
o you want to be a (burly bohunk assertive Amazon), but you're afraid you'll 
never master the 
subtleties of the weight room? 
Are you afraid you'll commit some obscure faux pas such as (sneezing while spotting some bruiser I tripping on the Stair­master) and be laughed right out of the gym on your (concave chest I thickening thighs)? 
The secret to weight-lifting, as 
with any higher pursuit, is 
etiquette. 
With my "Tips for the Truly 
Taut," you'll fool them all and 
become an esteemed paragon of 
(beef I firmness) reminiscent of 


---­ ---­ 
--~  -~--------------­ 
page 11  

111111111 

NO women prove fitness stereo-types wrong 
A 
By JULIE BARRETT Carson, an admitted exercise classes are girls. Over 1,000 Accent Writer fanatic, stays in tip-top shape Notre Dame women this year by keeping a daily routine of have participated in the II Notre Dame running three miles in the aerobic fitness programs women are fat and morning and swimming a provided by REC sports, ugly, according to couple of laps in the af­according to Greg Kigar, an old stereotype. ternoon. intramural coordinator at REC Whoever believes "In high school I played sports. this fallacy must be blind to sports all the time, so I do REC Overall, there are six differ­the multitude of women at ND sports and exercise to stay in ent types of aerobic programs who stay active, stay healthy shape," she said. "I also like and 17 classes offered, he and stay in shape. to keep a routine, so I try to said. Students can take low, 
Look around campus, check exercise every day." high, combination of low and out the Rockne Memorial, go Missing the thrill of playing high, step, stretch, and water to the Joyce Athletic Convoca­sports in high school, Jackie aerobics if so desired. tion Center(JACC) and see Macy, a Howard sophomore, Approximately 2,000 girls girls all over the place says if she doesn't stay active each year participate in the sporting spandex and sweats and exercise, she gets "really myriad of sports and exercise while jogging and jumping lethargic." classes offered at Notre Dame around to the beat of lively She keeps in shape by doing through REC Sports, Kigar tunes. high impact aerobics every added. 
students utilize the indoor track at the Loftus Sports Center. The Center is 
ND women do all kinds of Monday and Wednesday and Women at Notre Dame and Monday through Friday from 5:30a.m. to 11 :30 p.m. sports and activities to keep fit step aerobics on Tuesdays and Saint Mary's have the freshman Marc Baumann and Walsh freshman Monica Vonada push each other to and trim, from running the Thursdays. Friday, Saturday opportunity to play sports and bests in excercise. Sit-ups are just one component of their fitness program. gamut of aerobic exercise to and Sunday she heads for the take fitness classes they might judo. Rockne Memorial to break a not have had the chance to do Trish Gray, a sophomore sweat on the versa climber or anywhere else such as from P.W., gets all the exercise the stairclimber for about football, water polo, she needs in her judo classes. half-an-hour, row on the erg racquetball, sailing, skiing, "It's a lot of exercise because for about ten minutes and aerobics, yoga and judo. we do repeated sequences finish with some sit ups and Most women who have that use all the muscles," she push ups. taken advantage of these said. "It's also a lot of fun Sometimes Macy substitutes opportunities agree that because.. I get to throw people her exercise regimen with playing sports and exercising around. weight-lifting to tone her mus­isn't just a way to keep The ultimate workout for cles, she said. healthy and stay in shape, but sophomore Kathy Turner is a ND senior Jen Yost likes to also to release pressure and little bit of running, rollerblad­pump some iron, too, when get out some frustrations. ing, and even ballet. Once a she's not teaching aerobics As for the old stereotype 
week, she takes ballet class at twice a week for REC sports. that all Notre Dame girls are Saint Mary's. She said she was fat and ugly, the ND women "(Ballet) is so therapeutic for intimidated at first when she who are keeping active and 
me because of the concentra­went to the third floor weight staying in shape prove it's tion and coordination in­room in the Rockne Memorial simply not valid. 
volved," Turner said. She because of all the "macho" "That stereotype is so added that she loves ex­guys in there. However, now ridiculous," Macy said. "I was ercising and would rather that she's a regular weight­expecting the stereotype to be "run around the lakes than lifter, she "doesn't think twice true when I first came to take a nap" in order to "keep about being there." Notre Dame. But I was her motor running." She said she enjoys leading surprised to see so many girls 
Lewis sophomore Carolyn aerobics twice a week, as involved in sports and in such Carson keeps her engines well, because it keeps her in great shape. Girls here really revving by playing competitive shape and she has fun take care of themselves 
non-varsity sports in her free exercising to the energizing because many of them are time, like indoor field hockey music. conscientious about and lacrosse. Yost noted that most of the everything, their classes, their 
In addition to the sports, students that attend her work and their health." 
1 style: 'lips for the Truly Taut' 
'an Claude Van Damme I miring your own firm physique, Don't cover up those stretch lena Easton), your first time chances are they'll come to marks! 
worship your sinewy Herculean The marks of greatness, these lip this concise guide into your temple, too. A good rule of thumb should be flaunted for what they -rag I sports bra) for easy is to check biceps development are: bruises of brawn. But if you erence and walk tall, walk after every set; tape measures are still feel self-conscious, try ud, and above all. walk with optional. Clinique's light concealer for r arms a little out to the side Leave the Village People at maximum coverage while if they are too bulky with home. perspiring. ;cle to lay flat. Listening to "Macho Man" in 
the gym is passe, and a little too Purchase the proper acces­
rcra, Lycra, Lycra! obvious. "Let's Get Physical" is sories. you've got it, make it tight permissible, but only in the Leather lifting belts with silver shiny. If you don't have it, or ladies' gym. Richard Simmons' studs are out this season, as are 
n if you think that maybe "Sweatin' to the Oldies" is right any remaining items from the ~e·s a possibility that someone out. "Flashdance" era. Handweights tht think that you may not should match the cross-training e it, cover it up with a largish Keep track of those Walkman shoes, not the socks, and boys, ~atshirt and hope no one wires. please-no half-shirts. ices. Nothing separates the studs No tickling, cheering, or lance in the mirror-and from the amateurs faster than applauding while others are at nee often. freak strangulation by Nautilus the bench. /hen others notice you ad-equipment. It's simply not done. 

page 12 The Observer Friday, April 3, 1992 
Help wanted: an SOS from a lonely dog 
Darby O'Gill III has survived 
went in pursuit of it over hill and understanding surpassing the winter. and is in need of and dale. Finally the lamb those of man himself. Lest it friends who will keep him from Father Robert Griffin stopped, once it reached a run­impair your courage, you shall discovering that April can be ning stream, to have a drink of never foresee your death. Lest the cruelest month. Letters to a Lonely God water. it impair your loyalty, you shall be blind to the faults of man. 
Darby has proven himself to Moses, seeing this, said Lest it impair your be a dog for all seasons. In Oc­apologetically, "Little lamb, I understanding, you are denied tober, he thought that the trees ing to farm Darby out to all cided to postpone the more didn't realize that you ran the power of words. shedding their leaves were comers. In my life, he's the complicated lessons for a few away because you were playing a game with him. little prince; and I'd require weeks until I was feeling better thirsty. "Waiting until the little "Let no fault of language 
anyone volunteering to roam and could work out with him thing had finished refreshing cleave an accord beyond that 
Once winter arrived. I could the quads with him to show me more. At least he knows the itself, Moses picked it up and of man with any other have strapped a keg of brandy references, credit cards, and all-important commands, carried it back to the flock. beast-or even man with man. to his collar, and sent him to proof from the Red Cross that HEEL! and SIT! It's helpful for Speak to your master only with Switzerland to rescue you've been trained to save a dog to know these basics, When God saw how kind your mind, and through your travellers lost in the snowy lives. when you're walking him on a Moses was to the thirsty lamb, honest eyes. Alps. He took to the cold as a leash. the rabbis say, He knew he duck takes to water, and you A number of students have would be good to the Hebrew "Walk by his side, sleep in his could get frostbite just from told me, "If you need help in You may think: "What's the children. For when God wants doorway, forage for him, ward seeing him plow through the taking care of him, I'd love to fun of having a dog, if you don't to judge a person's character, off his enemies, carry his bur­drifts. take him off your hands for a feel able to take care of him?" the rabbis say, He looks to see dens, share his afflictions, love 
while." I'm not too proud to ac­Come hell or high water, I'll how well that person tends the him and comfort him. And in 
If the springtime ever comes, cept favors, and neither is manage to take care of him. My sheep. return for this, man will fulfill I foresee he'll feel the need of Darby. On days when old age is suffering from a slight case of your needs and wants-which spending hours and hours slowing me down, it breaks my "shingles" doesn't mean my God must be pleased with the shall be only food, shelter, and sporting with the wild things; heart to watch that young Darby needs to look for a new character of any of us whom affection. but to tell you the truth, I'm too creature springing for the home. He sees showing tenderness to old to sport with him. doorknob, in a vain attempt to dumb creatures dependent on "So be silent, and be a friend 
turn it, so that he can let him­But no young dog is an is­the kindness of strangers. to man. Guide him through the 
I brought Darby to campus self out for the airing he needs. land; and as Darby's master, Darby O'Gill III has never met perils along the way to the land last September 14, when he neither am I an island. Both he a Notre Dame student that he that I have promised him. This was nine weeks old and You may wonder: "Why do and I have room in our lives for doesn't regard as a candidate shall be your destiny and your weighed only five pounds. Now you have a new pet, if you're many friends, and this is a time for instant friendship. immortality. So spake the he's almost nine months old, too long in the tooth to take in our lives we need them. The Lord." and weighs twenty-four care of him?" To tell you the happy side to a dog like Darby When my first Darby O'Gill pounds; and he's still a puppy truth, I depend on O'Gill to is that once you've befriended was still alive, friends sent me And the dog heard and was who wears me out with his keep me young; however. lately him for fifteen minutes, he'll the following piece. "God sum­content. playfulness and his willingness I've had an affliction called leave you walking tall from moned a beast from the field In response to the many of­to make friends. "shingles" that afflicts cur­thinking so well of yourself as a and He said, Behold man, cre­fers from students volunteering 
mudgeons, and leaves them human being. ated in my image. Therefore to Darby-sit I'm sending out 
There's more love in that aching and racked with pain. adore him.You shall protect this S.O.S. asking, "Where are cocker spaniel than one priest There's a story I once heard him in the wilderness, you now?" needs, and he has an excess of Whenever Darby stands at about sheep, which could be shepherd his flock, watch over energy that is wasted on me; the door, wild-eyed with rest­applied, "mutatis mutandis," I his children, accompany him At the same time, I'd like to
.... 
and I'd be proud to have you lessness, I try to tell him that think, to a cocker spaniel. The wherever he may go-even apologize for turning my make his acquaintance. I want the ravaged nerve ends around story explains why Moses was unto civilization. You shall be weekly Observer column into students to know that he's my waist leave me too sore to chosen by God to become the his companion, his ally, his something that sounds like a available for walks, and for fun move. When he comes over to leader of the Jewish people. slave. personals-ad. The bottom line and games. He owns his own lick my hands with his wet is, Darby can be your hound of volley ball; and when it comes tongue, I have the feeling he's Moses, as a young man, "To do these things, God said, heaven also, if you want him to to sports, he has the heart of offering me sympathy. tended sheep for his father-in­endow you with these be-standing in for the time an Olympian. Darby was halfway through law. One day, a little lamb ran instincts uncommon to other being, for the hound of heaven 
None of this means I'm will-obedience school, when I de-away from the flock. Moses beasts: faithfulness, devotion, waiting for you at home. 
r 

"From START to Finish? The Future of Nuclear Security Issues" 
A Conference Presented by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC 
University of Notre Dame
WHAT IF YOU 
April 5-6, 1992 

DON'T GO 
Sunday. April 5 Hesburgh library Auditorium
INTO THE SCHOOL OF 
4:00PM Keynote Address: "The Future of Nuclear
YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure. there are other Security Issues" schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help 
SENATOR RICHARD LUGAR (R-IN)
students raise their scores 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee 
and their chancesof 
being admitted into their 
first·choice schools. Fact 
Monday. April 6 Center for Continuing Education Auditorium
is, no one has helped students score higher' 
12:00 Noon Keynote Address: "Challenges for U.S. Security in the Post-Cold War Era" 
REPRESENTATIVE LES ASPIN (O-Wl) Chairman, House Armed Services Committee 
1:30PM Panel Discussion: "The Collapse of the Soviet 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. Union: Implications for U.S. Security" 
~outh Bend, IN 46637 

PROFESSOR JERRY HOUGH, Director of the Center for East-West Trade, 
Duke University
(219) 272-4135 

JO HUSBANDS, Staff Officer, Committee on International Security, National Academy of Sciences 
GENERAL ED ROWNY, former Arms Control Advisor to Presidents Ronald Reagan and George Bush, Chief Negotiator for the START Talks 




Friday, April 3,1992 The Observer page 13 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
II 
SUMMER SUBLET (TURTLE You should be with us, feeling like To the blonde in the Dodge Aries Need ride to Purdue CREEK) 272-95401 we do ... Turbo: Grand Prix @ April 3 
NOTICES WANTED please call Karen 4943 
~------------------~  SUMMERJOBS  GRADUATING SENIOR -FEMALE  Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award  I've got a chocolate shake!!!  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 $$FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-Sat Pandora's Books corner of ND ave & Howard reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082. Typing Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 Seniors-Seniors Graduating and still don't have job plans? New company that has been actually adding hundreds of people thru dramatic expansion seeks motivated/ career oriented individuals to help expansion into new markets. Interviews will be held on April 8 & 9 at Career and Placement. Call student liason at x3457 to set up times. THE BOSS IS BACK!I LOST/FOUND  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786-8373 Female roommate wanted for May. Lincon Park area, 2 blocks from the lake. 2bdrm/5rm, $415/mo plus utilities. call (312) 975-5035. Grad student seeking House­sitting position for summer. Will care for plants & pets. Mature & Responsible. Call Yanxi 277-7876. STUDENT NEEDED to manage the Notre Dame area of an Ann Arbor Business. No experience nee. but must be motivated, May 'til July. Good$. 313-930-6962 2-5 p.m .. We are looking for a mature and dependable student to babysit our newborn for 30 to 40 hours a week, in our home, starting May 18th. Experience preferred; personal or academic references accepted and salary negotiable. Please call us at 287-3247. Need a ride to Vanderbilt any weekend. Will help with expenses, etc. Call Rich@ X1695  -LOOKING FOR ROOMIE FOR MISH/ELKHART AREA. JOYCE 284-5319 ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO., FOR LARGE 4-BEDROOM, FURNISHED HOUSE. COMPLETE SECURITY SYSTEM, WASHER & DRYER, 9-MO. LEASE. DEPOSIT. 259-7801 OR 255-5852. Attractive studio's in lovely old Mansion 1/2 mile from ND 225­300/Mo. plus deposit. Call 2879624 for summer and fall rentals. 6 BEDROOM HOME. WALK TO CAMPUS.FURNISHE0.272-6306 FOR RENT: 515 W. Marion; roomy 3-story house, ample parking, security, close to ND. 272-5509. MOVING TO CHICAGO? TWO 1991 SMC GRADS NEED NONSMOKING FEMALE ROOMMATE BEGINNING JUNE 1. $290/MO INCL. HEAT, PARTIAL FURNISH, N. SIDE APT. 1 BLOCK FROM LAKE. PLEASE CALL ASAP (LOCAL) 219-271-1443. ASK FOR GARRETI ROOM FOR RENT. Privacy, garage, cable, utilities incl., wash/dryer. Nice home -must see. 291-9093.  Winning Hotel, has rooms for Graduation weekend. Located at Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 deposit per room. Send letter with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN 46514. NEED 2 Tickets for Graduation please call Neal at 283-1159 Custom-made HAIR-BOWS by Lynn and Sally call x2764 -various materials, designs and colors available-In the heart of every woman, there is a Mardi Gras Mombo waiting to come out... CONGRATULATIONS! TO THE NEWEST MEMBER OF THE SENIOR BAR "TEAM" JASON LUBANSKI HOLY MACKEREL! IT'S THE FISHERMAN'S BUFFET DINNER  (But a cucumber still won't give you a hickey.) Oh, geez! See ya at the party! PORT-A-PIT CHICKEN & RIBS Saturday, April 25, (Blue-Gold Game Day), at St. Joseph's High School. Help the parents keep the kids safe after the prom. Proceeds go to support the Jr/Sr Post-Prom Party. Advance ticket prices for Port-A-Pit are $3.50/chicken, and $4/ribs. Call 272-3753 and leave message. Tickets can be delivered directly to you on campus. You and me, we were the pretenders ... Help Me, Please I need graduation tickets if anyone has some they are not going to use. Call Quinn at x2059 if you have any info.  Notre Dame Women's Choir Spring Concert Sunday, April 4, 8 PM Sacred Heart Church All are invited to attend! DAVID-Good Luck honey; Wash U. calls! Remember the 3 r's: Rest, Relax, and Rubdown! Love, TANYA I NEED GRADUATION TIXXX!II IF YOU CAN HELP PLEASE CALL x2219 , ask for ANDY or DAN. THANK YOU!!!! HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY, ALICE DILLING! AND, don't forget alcohol affects sexual performance! love, Va, ED, Cavemillus, Probe, and the scam artist. FFFFFFFF F FFFFF  
I lost a Notre Dame Lacrosse sweatshirt Sat. night somewhere on South Quad. It has #34 on the front and I really need it back. If you've found it, please call Kristine at X3352. LOST: One gold hoop earring with a spiral pattern If found please return to 214 Farley or call x4049 LOST: Gold Louisville Cardinal charm with ruby eye. Sentimental  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8,000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597. Need ride to North Carolina May 8th or 9th Will split tolls and gas Call Dave 3633  FOR SALE For Sale: '83 NISSAN SENTRA: 4-dr, power brakes, excellent mileage, engine hums like a dream, new exhausVbrakes, great travel car, very reliable! $1,950 (firm) Call Joe: 273-2605  FRIDAY, APRIL 3,1992 NDHANDSDH Dear Monk & Patty: Please come to my bead and poetry reading ("POEMS THE PRIESTS NEVER READ ME") at the Gay and Lesbian Performing Arts Festival on Sat. 4 April (7:30) at the non-discriminatory First Unitarian Church (101 E. North Shore). Tell Fr. Beau to wear something black and to bring a few  please, help me Need to feed a crowd? Try our six foot Cold Cut Combo!! Served with lettuce and tomatoe ­only $37.9511 Call SUBWAY 277-7744 hey nit  F F Rob, how is your liver? CC-BEWARE, the world is being taken over by sloths (fuj fum a little aggression out) How about a random lock of hair protruding from a drummer's crewcut into his left ear? &, of course, fargo dada da  
value! Rewardl Call 271-1177 Lost: Gold Watch Niewland -LaFortune area ? Maria x4421 lost : men's gold Sieko watch in Rock basement on Sat. Call X4608. lost: set of keys: One imprinted with ND3, the other with 244. Don't  Need ride to Cleveland( John Carrol U. ) this weekend. Call John x1146 if you can help. ••••Driving to MA for Easter Break? Looking for a ride to the Springfield or South Shore area-PLEASE call Jenn at 42411!1W*** FOR RENT  STUDENTS & PARENTS! SAVE on those housing costs. Buy this Oakhill Condo, walk to classes. Get a break on your taxes, and a return on your investment after graduation. Call Janet Knapp at REIMAX 1 00 realty for more information. 219-255-5858 or 219­277-7402.  athletes. Sincerely yours in Christ, Sister Nutty Dame AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL GROUP#43 will meet Sunday night at 8:30 pm in Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune Featuring an AI movie  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Calll-800-878-3696.  ROY why don't you respond to our messages? Greg, you can still expect rocks. Michael, have a great weekend! I'll miss you!!!! Love, Renee Alice F.  
remember where I lost them. call  "CLOSETLAND"  
X4608 Lost: A pair of eyeglasses w/Carrerra frames, in either Fitzpatrick or LaFortune computer labs on late  FOR RENT; TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE. TWO BEDROOM, ONE AND ONE HALF BATH, LARGE LIVING AREA, FENCED IN PATIO,  I STRING TENNIS RACKETS Cheaper than the Eck! grips, stencils, whatever you need! Chuck x2226  Please join us! Michael-Since "Keenan Season"'is over, Friday night is off.Besides, it would  The Lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans!  Better late than never, ... Congrats on your job offer with G. E. ... you've worked hard for it. God Bless you and good luck.  
Wed. night (Mar. 25) or early Thurs. morning (Mar. 26) .. If found, call  WALKING DISTANCE TO CAMPUS.  TICKETS  probably have taken half an hour for anything to happen. : ) Love,  to the athletic dept.: your time is gonna come  I'm going to get you a "new alarm clock" :) :) :)  J.K.  
Frank @1692.  PARTIALLY FURNISHED.  -Me  -led zeppelin  
CALL ERIC X1392  Cris.  
BRYAN OR BRENNAN X1376  For Sale: chp. 1 way tick. SB to Los  Top 10 Reasons to Wear Polyester  
LOST! LOST! LOSTI LOSTI LOST!  Angeles. Monday, 5/18.  10) It's HOT!  Shiny Happy People, Hey-Hey!,  
On Wednesday, 3/25, I lost my HP- Jim x1558.  9) It's saving our planet  Happy Birthday Joe Roberts  God overload, 5 games we  
17B business calculator somewhere  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  8) It repels (i.e. people, water)  missed, 4 hours of deep thoughts,  
on campus.  SERIOUS REWARD!!II  219-291-7153.  One way ticket.  Sth. Bnd.  to  7) It's machine washable  16.5 seconds, electric slide, spiral  
John x3588.  Pgh. on 4/15. $80. Call Lee.  6) It won't shrink in the dryer  hugs & pyramids, candy!, Mitchell,  
3 Bedroom  # 1200  5) It won't wrinkle  ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS  Celebration, 4th Day.  
LOST  Walk to Campus  4) If you spill on it, you don't care  A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS  Thanx Group 1, it was so fun.  
Men's spiral hairbone  $555 Month  3) Reuben Kincaid wears it  A BABYI Young financially secure  
necklace somwhere between  232 3616  2) Someday, it may come back into  Catholic couple looking to adopt  •••  WARNING •••  
Flanner, Comp/Math, and ROTC  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS.  style  and provide a loving home to an  TOO MANY PEEPS CAN GIVE  
Please call Mike x1143  COLLEGE PARK CONDOS -12  Will pay ANY amount of money.  1) It's a great excuse to have a  infant.  All Expenses paid.  Please  YOU THE POOPS!!  
NEW UNITS -1300 sq. ft. - Call JIM X1577  party!  call collect (317) 364-0300 for more  (HOW'S THAT JOHN?)  
LOST!!!!!!!!!!!!II!!!!!III!!!II!LOST:  Ironwood & Bulla-2 B/R -2 Bath ­ THINK 70's!  information.  
available immediately-call 287­ 
GE DOUBLE CASSETIE PLAYER  0534 or 271-9268.  Paul Tsongas wants tickets!! Total  Oil, that is ..black gold,texas tea.  
$$for 2-4 grad tix Mickey x1846  
@ At Zahm Jam at Theo's.  1 BDRM. FOR SUMMER SCHOOL.  ALLISON DILLING is 20 today!  VOTE FOR JAMIE O'BRIEN  We got hosed by the sensors.  
USE OF FACILITIES. $225/MO.  Don't forget to wish her a Happy  SBA TREASURER.  JAMIE  Team 244·is really ...  
If you know of its whereabouts  232-2794.  Birthday!!  O'BRIEN  "Your mother may not brush her  
please call:  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  teeth but she has one cavity I  
Newly remodeled 4-bdrm,  Hey Allison! Hope you have an  wouldn't mind drilling"  
284-4382  2-bath home. Near Lafayette  SEN I OR S !!!!  awesome birthday! We'll help you  
Square Townhomes. All kitchen  celebrate! Only one year  NEED A RIDE TO  John Stavrakos  
Thanks Easter Bunny  appliances, washer/dryer. 2-car­ E A S Y  M 0 N E Y !!!I!  'till you're legal! That's right  RALEIGH/DURHAM AREA FOR  I Happy birthday!  
garage. $700/mo. Ref. & 10-mo.  girlfriend!!! Don't forget to Eborp!  EASTER BREAK? Looking for 1 or  Celebrate  
lease required. 277-4583.  Cash in those grad. tix for  Love,  2 people to share driving, gas, tolls,  in  
some serious greenbacks.  Jill & Carrie  etc. Call Laura x4804  Mardi Gras Style!  
Lost: Someone accidentially  Call Dennis at 271-0104.  Dr. Doolittle has nothing  
took my navy blue Jansport  ATIENTION:  on you & MCATS!  
Bookbag at SDH wedn  TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Christmas in April!!!  Love Chocolate, Jennifer  
morning. Call X1025 Brian  AVAILABLE FOR RENT DURING  THE TUTUS ARE BACK. ..  
THE SUMMER MONTHS.  " ... Santa Claus is coming to town!"  ENGIQUEERSI!!!II!!!!!!!!!!!  
THIS SPACIOUS APARTMENT IS  
Lost: Blue ID case lost on 4/1  IDEAL FOR THREE OR FOUR  DESPERATELY NEED TICKETS  The annual Christmas in April  Princess,  Lunchmeat and Eric (That's you  
in the Huddle sometime between  STUDENTS--CHEAP RENT,  TO GRADUATION IN MAY!!  celebration is tomorrow!!  I can't wait to see you run on the  PUKE!)  
11-12 at lunch.  BEAUTIFUL SWIMMING POOL,  12th.  It's no Boston Marathon but  GOOD LUCK ON YOUR MCAT'S  
Contains NY license, ND id,  CONVENIENT LOCATION, AND  (Final Four will be televised.)  what can you do? I hope you enjoy  Love, Peggy  
Senior Bar card, money card,  LOVELY FURNITURE.  WILL PAY MUCH $$$!!  your weekend.  
Detex.  If found, please call  CALL NOW!!!!  See what the experts have to say:  Love Bucky  Dear Bucky- 
Dee at 277-5798.  PEGGY 277-3626  CALL RUSS @ #2369  You're the BEST!  I'm looking  
CRICKY X2922  '  Wayne Campbeii:"Wayl!!"  forward to a super-duper fun  
PERSONAL  Garth Algar:"Rrreggllle!" Wayne:"Schwing!!"  There I was, there I was, there I was ... in a tutu  weekend--Party On, Dude! Love and Kisses  
Found 3/28 a strand of pearls by  Summer sublet-Turtle Creek  Garth:"Yeah, double-schwing  Princess  
Greenhouse behind Haggar. Call Eric x2059 to claim. FOUND: TEAL PACIFIC TRAIL SKI  2-bdrm, furnished 271-8466 SUMMER SUBLEASE CHEAP!!! Furnished Turtle Creek Townhouse Available for summer. 2, 3, or 4  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus.  action." Wayne:"lt sucks donkey-NOT!!" Garth:"You'd be a GIMP not to show up!!" Wayne:"Yeah, show up, only if your  ADOPTION Childless, Christian, Couple wishes to adopt. Legal and medical paid.  LULAC'S LATIN EXPRESSIONS will be Friday April 3, at 7:30p.m. in the Library Auditorium.Cost will be $2.00 sludents$3.00 non­ 
JACKET LAST FRIDAY,  students rent negotiable. 2  worthy."  Call Bill and Kathy, Collect, at 219­ students. Come one come all to the  
3/27, IN CAVANAUGH HALL. CALL MIKE AT 1431.  bdr,2bath, pool. Call Mike/Matt X3414 or 3410 - We are not strong  NUFF SAID!  322-8187.  event that'llknock your socks offlllll See you there llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll  
-Santa's BIG RED helpers  
f  T.i'""lr-:..r-t;.-;-,"7.-,_,..---,.,-,ir-r-1'TI"Ti""'l>~o.-.. #  4  ~  •. • . 1. 1  I  I • t' ..f 'I •. j  1 "  1 !'. ·• "'f ·1 •.  


r-------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer Friday, April 3,1992 
Mikey Likes hi del. Crime Ocean, Pay, Forleh Ear Wax del. Spot Us 19 & We'll Kick your Butt, 21-16 

~····••• • •••• 
Ghetto Boya del. Mean Machine, lorleh 5 Guys Who Penetrate to Hole and Shoot del. Slow-Motion, 21-15 

OO©Lrrnl~ (Q)~[M]~ ~~~~~OO[Q)
The Real Fab Five del. Box the COrfll88S, 21-4 Now or Never def. 5 Girls who Just Want Some Action, 21-8 

Men Loving Fermented Grain del. Bill's Mom. 21·11 Team 97 del. Magic, Wih, Henning, & 2 who'd be nothing w/o Magic, 21·11 
®[F)©rnliJ® ®©[}Q~(Q)(!l)~~~ 
We Hate Jimmy Buffet del. Please don't hurt us, 21·11 Club Shenanigans del. Beloit Bombers. 21-10 
FRIDAY APRIL 3 
We're Short. Slow, Whhe del. Team 465, 21-16 

WOMEN'S TENNIS @ AUSTIN, TX 5:00PM
Lambier Wanna-bes del. 5 Guys who Vitale Wouldn't Watch Play, 30-28 
Word to your Mother II del. A Democrat and 4 Guys Voting, 21-10 

SOFTBALL V. DETROIT (DH) 3:00PM TRACK @ TEXAS RELAYS 11:00 AM
O'Malley's Twenty-Niners del. 4 Women Who Score whh Clowns. lorteh 

SATURDAY APRIL 4 
Panic Hardware del. 2 Beckers, 2 Sloths and a Beeker, 23·21 

BASEBALL V. BALL STATE (DH) 1:00PM 
Green Egga and Ham (BII~ del. Brazilian Turnpike Oippin Hicks, 21·13 

@ COVELESKI STADIUM 
SOFTBALL (DH) 1:00PM VIRGINIA 81, NOTRE DAME 76 
Fral House Five del. Wong Smith and the Sushi Kings, 21·9 

MEN'S TENNIS V. WEST VIRGINIA 1:00PM 
Push It Along del. 5 Guys who Walk Alone, (No Score Reported) 

LACROSSE V. DENISON 2:00 PM
VIRGINIA (20-13) 

Pale Alders del. Doc's Genna Be Pissed!, 21·15 Burrough 5·17 3-3 13, Sthh 6·14 10-12 24, 
TRACK@ INDIANA INTERCOLLEGIATES 
Jeffries 1·31·2 3, Alexander 6-11 6·8 21, Oliver 7· 14 4-7 18, Parker 1·1 0-1 2. Srmh 0-0 0-0 o, 
BLOOMINGTON, IN 11:00 AM
Bricks del. We're going to die, 21·12 Bames 0-2 0-0 0. Totals 26-62 24-33 81. NOTRE DAME (18-15) 

WOMEN'S GOLF @ IU INVITATIONAL
Ellis 6-12 8-8 20, Taylor 2·9 2·2 6, Tower 1·3 0·0 2, Bennett 11-24 12-13 39, Sweel2·11 2·2 6, Joe Sto"o Vrankovic and the 4 Horsemen del. Beef Stew over Biscuit, 21-13 
BLOOMINGTON, IN 8:00AM
Ross 0-0 0-0 0, Russell Q.O 0-0 0, Jon Ross 1·2 0·1 No Blood ... No Foul del. Slaves ol Slothor ... and Slothor, 21·13 2, Cozen 0-1 1·2 1, Boyer Q.O Q.O 0. Totals 23-62 25-28 76. 
SUNDAY APRIL 5 
Halftlm&-VIrginia 29, Notre DameLive and Let Dyer del. Duschenzys, 21-4 
BASEBALL V. WESTERN MICHIGAN 1:00PM
29. End of regulation-Virginia 66, Notre Dame 66. 
3-Polnt goala-VIrglnla 5-8 (Alexander 3-5, Sthh 2· Blues Brothers del. Dribbling Cocks, 21·12 3), Notre Dame 5-20 (Bennett5-13, Taylor 0-1, 
@ COVELESKI STADIUM 
Cozen 0-1, Sweet 0-5). Fouled out-Jelfries, Ellis, 
MEN'S TENN IS V. WISCONSIN 1:00PM
Tower. Rebounds-VIrginia 39 (Sthh 8), NotreJohn Macleod's Fro-pickers def. Futile University Censor, No Score Reponed Dame 41 (Ellis 11). Assists-VIrginia 12 
SOFTBALL V. EVANSVILLE (DH) 1:00PM
(Alexander 6), Notre Dame 12 (Bennett 6). Total Time to Fly Again del. That ain't Mayo, 21-13 louis-VIrginia 22, Notre Dame 26. A-1 0,346. 
··-·. .·..:.:. 

............._.~._._.__._._ ·•·•········ ..·•······ .. 
,...·-·-·-·-·-·-·---·-·-·-·-·-· .. ···=-=·-·-·-·-·-· 
AMST 
Perm1ss1on Requ1re LAW LAW Writing and Ethics; 3 cr. 
LAW 


6316 01 1827 PLS 34S 03 #419S change days/time to: T H 
LAW 652A 01 0535 hrs.; WF 09:05-ll:SO; Foundations of 01:00-03:00 
01 3826 

231 01 0821 LLRO 451 meets every other week Christianity;3 cr.hrs;T H LAW 618 01 #1823 MARK 476 01 1861 
231 06 0826 EE 499R 21 #4165 09:30-10:4S; Majors only change days/time to: S 
ME 448 01 2006 231 07 0827 ME 469 01 0235 Undergraduate Research; PLS 347 03 #4196 09:00-11:50 
231 08 0828 MGT 2)1 01 2012 var. cr. hrs. Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; M wF MBA 651 01 #4127 231 09 0829 MGT 231 02 2013 EE 699R 20 #4166 11:15-12:0S; Majors only is NOT PermissionRequired 231 10 0830 
MGT 231 03 2015 Research & Dissertation; PLS 381 OS #4194 MGT 240 all 
231 13 0833 

MGT 231 05 2018 . Great Books Seminar III; restrictions should read:
0835 var. cr. hrs.
231 15 2019 

473 01 0854 MGT 231 06 MBA 632 01 #41BO 4 cr. hrs.; M W 01:15-"BA students only ~ 
MGT 231 07 2020 475 02 0857 MGT 231 08 2021 Union Relations & Collec. 02;55; Majors only 3rd pd.;then open to all 
475 03 0858 MUS 2200 03 2092 Barg.; 3 cr. hrs.; T H THEO 229 02 #4167 MGT 350 -491 475 04 0123 MUS 221 01 2646 09:30-10:45 cross-listed Science & Theology; 3 cr. restrictions should read: 479 01 0863 
0873 MUS 223 01 0327 with MGT 373-01 hrs.; T H 11:00-12:15 "Majors only ~ 2nd 
444L 02 MUS 226 01 2095 period; BA students only

04 0875 ME 425 01 Hl91 THEO 270 01 #4181444L NSCI 411 03 2165 
446L 02 0879 Linear Vibration; 3 cr. Theological Imagination: 3rd pd; then open to all PHIL 235 01 2197 
446L 04 0881 hrs.; M W F 01:15-02:0S from Antiquity to the MSE 611 01 #0804
PHIL 243 01 3786 

384 01 3520 PHIL 246 01 2198 MLCH 101 01 #4197 Present; 3 cr. hrs.; M w change days/time to: T H 452 01 3214 
PHIL 247 01 3190 Beginning Chinese I; S 08:30-09:45 11:00-12:15 
310 01 2935 PHIL 253 01 3141 cr.hrs.;MTWHF 03:2S-04:15 THEO 640 01 #4182 MUS 503 01 454 01 3028 

PSY 481 01 3813 Hermeneutics and the change time to: T 11:00­
397 01 3307 MLCH 241 01 14198 
RLST 220 24 9524 

325S 01 1003 Intermediate Chinese I; 3 Theology of Symbol; 3 cr. 11:50; and change to 
RLST 235 40 9540 

391 02 0768 cr.hrs.;M W F 01:15-02:05 hrs.; T 01:15-03:45 Permission Required
RLST 240 28 9528 240 30 9530 MUS 4090 01 #4171 ~
391 03 0559 MUS 525 01 #2138 . 490 03 1067 RLST 335 56 9556 AMST 3.46 . 01 #0046 change time .to: T H
RLST Chamber Music; 1 cr. hr.;
490 05 1069 

328 01 2603 09:30-10:45
ROSP W 01:00-01:50; Permission change days/time to: T H 1084 Required 02:45-04:00 
490 06 1070 soc 520 01 2631 MUS 529 01 #3781344L 01 STV 247 01 3290 

#4172 375 #3450 change time: Hll:00-11:50
344L 02 1085 MUS 412B 01 ANTH 01 
STV 310 01 3716 344L 04 3899 THEO 265 01 0703 Harp; var. cr. hrs.; change time to: T H ROIT 101 OS #3832 
THEO 287 01 0254 Permission Required 11:00-12:15
455 01 3991 should not be Permission 442 01 1178 
THEO 288 01 4070 MUS 4120 01 #4173 BIOS 2011 04 #3893 Required 119L 02 3053 
Harpsicord; var. cr. change credit hours tol.O soc 220 01 #2621 
330 01 3569 

Cl••••• that will r~n at 12: 00 noon all add restriction:
435 01 3575 hrs.; Permission Required BIOS 344L sections 
Monday 4/6/92

403 01 3584 MUS 4130 01 #4174 change restrictions to: "Ineligible if previously 
403T 01 3585 Guitar; var. cr. hrs.; BIOS 344 or 421 taken SOC 122"
ACCT 231 09 0829 

422 01 0662 0833 Permission Required pre/corequisite soc 300 01 #3845
ACCT 231 13 ACCT 475 PHIL 241 01 #4185 BIOS
324 18 8418 02 0857 527 01 #3994 change days/time to: T H 319A 01 1564 
475 04 0123

ACCT Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; M W F remove "graduate students 01:15-02:30 
328A 01 0175 

3074 ANTH 310 01 2935 09:0S-09:55 only" restriction soc 374 01 #3449
416F 01 BA 490 03 1067 
change T

417 01 3611 PHIL 241 02 #4186 CAPP 253 01 #1162 time to: H 
BA 490 05 1069 

4406 01 3613 Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; M W F change restrictions to: 11:00-12:15
BIOS 344L 01 1084 

471A 01 3623 ENGL 319A 01 1564 10:10-11:00 College of Arts & Letters soc 473 01 #4110 475A 01 3351 
ENGL 475A 01 3351 PHIL 242 02 #4187 Sophomores only through change time to: M W 
485C 01 1581 

GOVT 474 01 4096 Basic Issues in Pol. third period, then 08:40-09:55 
492C 01 3628 01

ME 469 0235 soc 592 01 #0272
3629 Phil.; 3 cr. hrs.; M W F Freshmen only
493A 01 MUS 2200 03 2092 
change

.N<"'it. 495A 01 3630 09:05 09:5S CHEG 355 01 #1198 time to: M W 
RLST 335 56 9556 

IN 360 03 1602 PHIL 242 03 #4188 change days/time to: T H 12:50-02:05 Basic Issues in Pol.
IN 361 05 1612 11:00-12:15 THEO 401 01 #2662 IN 361 06 1613 
change time to: T H

OOBB'CTICMI NJP app:rt:rCifS TO DABT Phil.; 3 cr. hrs.; M W F CHEM 321 I 01 #1241 
IN 462 01 1625 

11:15-12:15 change maximum to 100 11:00-12:15 
IN 473 01 1629 IIQQll; 0117 PHIL 242 04 #4192 OESN 497S 04 #0520 THEO 512 01 #0690
IN 476 01 CO!JRSES APDED IN 478 01 1630 AERO 498A 01 #4169 Basic Issues in Pol. change to Permission change time to: T H 403 01 3670 Introduction to Phil.; 3 cr. hrs.; M W F Required 08:00-09:15 01 4150
419 Aeroelasticity; 3 cr. 08:00-08:50 ECON 301A 01 #3581 THEO 603 01 #0678 
454 01 3673 

hrs.; T H 11:00-12:15 PHIL 242 05 #4193 change days/time to: T H change day/time to: M 
474 01 4096 

AFAM 460 01 #4170 Basic Issues in Pol. 02:45-04:00 01:15-03:45 
358 01 3648 430 01 3457 Appropriate Tech/3rd Phil.; 3 cr. hrs.; M W F EOUC 324 01 #8418 THEO 681 01 #2787 475 01 3657 World; 3 cr. hrs.; T H 09:05-09:55 change restriction to: change time to: M 09:30-10:45 cross­
308A 01 3722 PHIL 245 01 #4189 Juniors & Seniors only 10:00-12:30 326A 01 3723 CotJRSIS C!'fCII I IQ
342 01 u 707 354A 01 3731 AFAM 260 01 -t3444
listed with ECON 460-01, Medical Ethics; 3 cr. GOVT 
GOVT 454-01 and STV460-01 hrs.; M W 12:S0-02:0S remove corequisite (GOVT
440A 01 3739 CAPP 253 01 -U162
342T)

AMST 396 01 #4183 PHIL 245 02 #4190 453A 01 3743 Canada & the United Medical Ethics; 3 cr. GOVT 473 01 #4095 ECON 443 01 -U351 3745 change time to:M W 
444A 01 3741 CHEM 313 01 -U240 
458A 01 States: Best Friends, hrs.; M w 02:20-03:35 soc 260 01 -0446 459A 01 3746 Like It or Not; 3 cr. PHIL 424 01 #4168 08:40-9:55 THEO 439 01 -#0693 472A 01 3748 THEO 519 01 -#4119
hrs.; T H 09:30-12:15; Metaphysics; 3 cr. hrs.; GOVT 491F 01 #3680 
474A 01 3749 THEO 542 01 -13887
T H 09:30-10:45; changeto:M W 02:45-04:00 liPS 335 01 4138 
meets every other week 
THURSDAY'S RESULTS Paoathe BeemUiall del. Team68, 21·13 Brothers ChiiWOOd det. Beta Rho Nu Chi, 21·18 BookaiOre'a short. Foul Hard del. Leaking lrflllanta, 21·8 White Men Can, Jurfll del. PTPe(s, 21·4 In Bounds, In Range det. Unlicensed Gynecologist, 21-15 The Iron Clad 5 del. Four Shlna plua One, 21·18 We Want Bush del. Runner, Hunter, Cheesehead, & Cigar Smokers, 21·13 

Amidy and Aldehyde del. Castrate, Slammers, and Ballhandler, 9-3 
Moloko & Uhraviolence d .. Stockman's Bar: Liquor In the Front, Poker in the Rear, 21-16 
4 Studs & Guy whh 2 1/2 Dollars del. Schwing I, 21·6 Duct-tapers del. 4 Men and a Baby, 21-17 
VDF IV: Beating a Dead Horse del. 5 Guys who Can't Score on the Court, 21-16 
4 Dudes and Fleming Gomer del. Existentialist Express, Forteh 
FINAL FOUR 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 

National Semifinals Saturday, April 4 Cincinnati (29·4) vs. Michigan (24-8) 5:42p.m. Duke (32·2) vs. Indiana (27·6) 8:02p.m. National Championship 
Semifinal winners Monday, April 6 at 8:22 p.m. 
Congratulations Irish Men's Basketball 1992 NIT Runners-up 



.,..____ 

Friday, April 3,1992 The Observer page 15 
Inexperience could doom Duke opponents 
Indiana, Michigan and Cincinnati are not accustomed to the spotlight 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -The Final Four is the ultimate expe­rience for a college basketball player and except for the Duke Blue Devils there isn't a lot of experience this year. 
Duke has made the national semifinals its March vacation spot. The Blue Devils have been in the Final Four for five straight years and six of seven, winning it all last season. 
Everybody but the freshmen on top-ranked Duke (32-2) know what it's like to go through the weekend that cul­minates the 64-team, one-and­out NCAA tournament. 
Seniors Christian Laettner and Brian Davis, like Greg Koubek last year, wound up each of their college seasons in the Final Four, the only players in college basketball history to do that. 
You can even take it lightly. 
"The more Final Fours you go to, the more cousins you find out you have who need tickets," Blue Devils coach Mike Krzyzewski said. 
The other teams need only to have names of immediate fam­ily members on their ticker lists. 
Indiana (27 -6), Duke's oppo­nent in Saturday's second game, is at its fourth Final Four under coach Bob Knight, the last in 1987 when the Hoosiers were champions. In fact, the only Final Four appearance by Knight which didn't end with a title was the first, 1973, when UCLA beat Indiana on the way to its seventh straight title, the last team to repeat as national 
ummer 
STORAGE 

RESERVATION ·I 683-1959 
J 
"' APPROX 2 1/2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 Master Mini Warehouses 

FOR RENT 
5 BEDROOM HOUSE 
Amenities Include: 
2 Full Baths Washer/Dryer 

Serving
Security System 


PANCAKE ND/SMC
New Appliances 

Students
HOUSE
1 Mile From N.D. 

Rata.wt for 27 years 
Try our new rcO'LoNiALPANCAKEHOUsE,
wly Remodeled. Features Include: 
OVEN BAKED 4" I APPLE PANCAKE I
All New Bathrooms 

EGG JUMBO I SAVE $1.00 I
New Appliances VEGETARIAN L ~P:~9:_ g[J
New Carpet 

OMELETTE rcoLONIAL PANCAKE HOUSE,
Completely Repainted 

FiDed with Onion, Green ANY CREPES
New Siding 

Peppers, Mushrooms, Diced i SAVE $1.00 1 Tomatoe., ancl Broccoli L EXP. ___ 6-30 offJ
_.___
92 
Open 7 Days A Week 
At6:30 A.M. 

U.L 31lfol'dll.a &oldand (A&:roN r.._ Tbc HoUday la.a) 2.ft..7433
232-8256 

Just North Of Campus 

AP File Photo 

Duke celebrates the 1991 National Championship. Indiana, Michigan and Cincinnat will join the Blue Devils in their fifth consecutive Final Four, 
opening tomorrow in Minneapolis. 
champion. 
These current Indiana play­ers, however, are playing be­yond the third round for the first time. 
"Our players are playing hard and that should be attributed to them making the Final Four," Knight said. 
A salient point by Knight, who has been spending much of the tournament making rather odd statements on topics from bullwhips to cerebral reverse to wind currents in the Metrodome. 
Knight and Krzyzewski have a long, close relationship and teams with similar styles although no team in the country has a player like Laettner especially at this time of season when the All-American seem­ingly wills his team to victory. 

"When he was a freshman he was not nearly the player he is now," Knight said of Laettner, the tournament's all-time lead­ing scorer and master of the regional championship buzzer­beater. "He has the ability to pass, shoot and create for his team." 
Duke and Indiana will follow the game between Cincinnati, the team no one really knows, 
AP File Photo 
Fiery Indiana coach Bob Knight will lead the Hoosiers against top­ranked Duke in tomorrow's second game. 
and Michigan, the team with the freshmen everybody knows. 
Cincinnati (29-4) has seven first-year players on the roster, five junior college transfers, a freshman and a transfer from Akron. The Bearcats worked their way to the Final Four through the Midwest Regional and are still the team which could walk through a Twin Cities hotel lobby without being noticed. 
"Our guys chase cameras like this dog in my neighborhood chases cars. It's unbelievable," said Cincinnati coach Bob Huggins, who is in his third year with the Bearcats and sec­ond NCAA tournament, the first with Akron in 1986. 
"Our guys see a TV truck going down the road and they're more apt than not to get off the bus and follow it. It wouldn't do any good to tell them not to. I couldn't tell them not to enjoy it even if I was Scrooge. They're going to enjoy it because that's the way they are. They have fun in life." 
So does Michigan and its group of freshmen starters known as the "Fab Five" to ev­eryone but themselves. They don't like the name, but you 
have to like the way they play. 
The Wolverines (24-8) were third in the Big Ten and won their first four tournament games at Atlanta and Lexington, Ky., the identical scenario to 1989 when Michigan won it all under then­interim coach Steve Fisher. 
Having had the interim tag removed, Fisher is now known as the man who recruited what may be the best class ever and he has it two games away from another title. 
"I worry more now because I have more time to think about it," said Fisher, who replaced Bill Frieder the day before the tournament in 1989. "I did not think about it not being my team three years ago." 
There are five seniors on Michigan but none was a factor in that title run. Two were in­jured, one red-shirted and two others were well down the bench. Glen Rice's 30.7 scoring average that tournament was higher than the combined point totals of those seniors for the season. 
You can throw out the records. The Final Four experi­ence is about to begin. 
rand Opening April3rd I Rainbow Video WE SPECIALIZE IN: Korean Japanese Chinese Video Tapes Free Membership State Road 23 & Ironwood Next to 76 Gas Station Mon-Sat 10 am to 8 pm Sun 12 noon to 6 pm 
(219) 273-9545 
-----------------------~-------. 
page 16 The Observer Friday, April 3,1992 
SPORTS BRIEFS
Shaq expected to enter the NBA draft 
BATON ROUGE, La. (AP) -Shaquille O'Neal. the 7-foot-1 center who dominated college basketball during three years at Louisiana State, is expected to take his game to the pros next season. 
O'Neal called a news confer­ence for 2 p.m. EST Friday at Fort Sam Houston. lie is ex­peetnd to announce that he will bypass his senior year at LSU and enter the NBA draft. 
The Times-Picayune and ESPN have both cited unidenti­fied sources in saying that O'Neal is likely to turn pro. LSU coach Dale Brown wouldn't give his opinion. 
"I've had my own feeling, whieh I don't want to express to you now," Brown told the Times-Picayune Wednesday. ''I've had this feeling for some time. I just don't want to say anything at all ... " 
Brown didn't return a tele­phone call Thursday. 
Brown met Sunday with O'Neal and his family in San Antonio, where the two-time All America is spending his spring semester break. 
A few weeks ago, Brown ad­vised O'Neal to turn pro be­cause of what Brown perceived as the undue physical pounding O'Neal has received from op­posing teams. However, Brown said he remained neutral dur­ing Sunday's meeting. 
"I gave them a list of pluses for staying in school and pluses for leaving," Brown said. "I told 
Ellis to perform 
in 4th annual 
dunk contest 
Special to the Observer 

The Fourth Annual College Basketball Slam Dunk and Three Point Shooting Championship will be held in Minneapolis on Sunday, April 5 at University of Minnesota's Williams Arena. The event will also include the first Women's Three-Point Shooting Contest in addition to the traditional Men's Slam Dunk and Three-Point Shooting Contests. 
In addition to the Women's three-point shooting competi­tion, this event is unique be­cause television viewers will actually determine the Slam Dunk champion. A panel of on-site judges will narrow the eight Slam Dunk contestants to two. During the Men's and Women's Three-Point Shooting Championships, viewers will vote for their favorite Slam Dunk finalist by calling a special telephone number. The Slam Dunk winner will be announced at the end of the broadcast. 
Shooting in the Men's Three-Point Championship will be Christian Laettner of Duke, Todd Day and Lee Mayberry of Arkansas, Walt Williams of Maryland, Steve Rogers of Alabama State, Chris Smith of Connecticut and Tom Gugliotta of North Carolina State. One more player will be added. 
The Slam Dunkers participating this year include Notre Dame's LaPhonso 
Ellis, Wyoming's Heginald Slater, Everick Sullivan of Louisville, Calvin Talford of East Tennessee State, Keith Horne of Texas-San Antonio and Washington State's Neil Derrick. Two more players will be added. 

•sports 
Briefs are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit your name. brief, telephone number. and the dates the brief' is to run. 

•The 
Rockne Pool will be closed until further notice due to repairs. Rolfs Aquatic Center is open Mon-Fri from 7 a.m. to 4 


p.m. and Sat-Sun from 1 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. 
•Irish 
Heartllghts Spring 3 and 6 mile runs are scheduled for April 9 at 4 p.m. Students and staff can pick up entry forms at RecSports. LaFortune Info desk, and the Dining Halls. For more information, call 239-6100 and ask for Sally. 

•Aerobic 
instructors are needed for the 1992-93 school year. If you have experience in step aerobics, high or low intensity aerobics, or other disciplines and would like to teach classes for RecSports. call 239-5100 for an application. Tryouts will be conducted on AprillO. 

•Referees 
are needed for Bookstore XXI games. Anyone interested should contact Bobby at 283-3515 of Patrick at 283­4078 by April 6. 

•women's 
Bookstore Basketball schedules will be available at the SUB and SAB offices on Friday. Please pick one up as soon as possible. Schedules will also be posted outside 405 Lewis. Questions? Call 283-1093. 


•women's Bookstore Basketball commissioner meeting 
will be held Sunday at 1 p.m. in 405 Lewis Hall. New people are welcome. If you cannot make the meeting, call 283-1093. 
AP File Photo 

LSU's Shaquille O'Neil, last year's College Player of the Year, will 
announce today that he is entering the 1992 NBA draft. 
them whatever their decision is, O'Neal's father, Phillip Harrison, I'd back them 100 percent. I that the news conference wasn't going to say. 'Stay,' I should be held at Baton Rouge, wasn't going to say 'Go,' and I said he would not change his • • • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
•

won't second-guess their plans to attend the Final Four 
•

decision." in order to attend Friday's news 
Brown, who said he had told conference. MONDAY 1\l\lJl TUESDAY •• 
• TRENT • • • ARTERBERRY • • Happy Birthday 
•

• 
8:10p.m. •• 
Jen, You HOSER 
Washington Hall •
•
Tid:ffs: $H--\'om: Ilam~ • and S~1inr \Lif\ 's Stutkm> •
•
$1()-.(j~neral .-\dmi>:>ion 
• 
$.'i--Chiltlren (12 and under) • Group r•nes '""1ilable.
Love, 
LaForrune Center Box Ofticc 
•

• ~lime Trent Arterberry moves through ~ series of conrernporar\ scenes
Val and NELLIE! 


Deliuery It 
Ce~rryout 

Call 232-2499 
EXCELLENT VALUE! 
I Please mendon coupon when ordering. One coupon I 
I II I  Buy A Large For Medium  1 II I  
I I I II  Charge Single PWa Orden 0o1y Carryout/Delluery ~May 31, 1992  I I I I1  
I  m  I  
1  •  01  

1per customer per visit at partlelpaUng Pizza Hut II restaurants or delivery stores. NOT VALID WITH I ANY OTHER COUPON. Limited delivery area I
Lii 
• 

with a unique athletic grace and presence. His show ranges from hilarious
• 

descriptive mime w inrerpretin.: dance and indudes improvisational
•

• sketches with audience parriciparion. Arterberry began stllth·ing mime in
• 

the '70s with such masters as ~larccl t\larceau.
•
• 

TrytheHotTaste ofPizzaHuf1bnight.
• 
Dine-In at  
Downtown  
282-2543  
or  
Roseland  
277-2121  
CHOICE DEAL  
1 II I  '1\vo Medium }..1\)pping Pizzas  1I1 1  
i 51099  i  
II  Carryout/Delluery ~May 31, 1992  I ~  
i  II s  I  

1Please mention coupon when ordering. One coupon 1 I per customer per visit at participating Pizza Hut 1 restaurants or delivery stores. NOT VALID WITH II ANY OTHER COUPON. Limited delivery area. I 
..-----------­

Friday, April 3,1992 The Observer page 17 
Rollie Massimino says he will run with the Rebels 
,..------------------------------------------·---------. successor. 
Mother Nature stops Irish home opener 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
In a belated April Fool's joke, the Notre Dame baseball team's home opener against Valparaiso yesterday was snowed out. 
The weather has not been kind to the 15th-ranked Irish so far this year. They have yet to hold an practice outdoors and more snow and rain this weekend could cause some problems for the Irish who are scheduled to play 38 games in five weeks. 
Weather permitting, the Irish (11-7) hope to make up one of the games against the Crusaders today at Jake Kline and play the scheduled games this weekend. Ball State (7-13) invades Coveleski Regional Stadium for a doubleheader on Saturday and Western Michigan (4-8) comes in for a game on Sunday. 
"B~th have great traditions in baseball," said Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy. "The Mid­American is a very strong con­ference and has been repre­sented well in the NCAA region­als." 
Notre Dame has won three straight against Ball State in­cluding a doubleheader sweep in the teams' last meeting in 1987. The Cardinals hosted MAC rival Bowling Green in a doubleheader on Tuesday and Taylor in a single game on 
LAS VEGAS (AP) -Rollie Massimino, known for his slow, deliberate style of play at Villanova, will have to shift into high gear now that he's coach­ing the fast-paced Runnin' Rebels of Nevada-Las Vegas. 
"We run, but we don't run like the Rebels," Massimino said of his 19 years at Villanova. "Now that I'm here, we're going to run like the Rebels." 
Wednesday, Massimino was named to take over a Rebels program hammered by dissen­sion among fans and problems with the NCAA. 
Massimino succeeds long-time friend Jerry Tarkanian, who built the Rebels into a bas­ketball powerhouse in 19 years atUNLV. 
Can't Eat Meat? 
Mon. thru Thurs. llam -1 am Fri. & Sat. llam-3 am Sunday Noon -Midnight 
,... -------------,----------------, 
I One I Oae I
8

1 1
14" Large $QOaxO 1 14" Large $ 00 
: Cheese : Garden Tax : 

Dave Sinnes 
Friday. Last week, Ball State went 4-2 including a sweep of Indianapolis and two split dou­bleheaders with Western Michigan. 
Seniors Eric Jones (2-0, 5.09, 18 K) and Louis Williams (0-2, 
9. 39, 7 K) are the probable starting pitchers for the Cardinals while juniors Chris Michalak (3-1, 3.44, 1 save) and Pat Leahy (3-2, 3.67, 24 K) are slated to start on the mound for Notre Dame. 
Ball State is led offensively by Dan Lehrman, Brian Houdeshell, Curtis Greene, and Corey White. Lehrman (.369, 8 RBis, 2 HR) went 8 for 17 for Ball State against Indianapolis and Western Michigan last week. Houdeshell is hitting .324 with 16 RBis and a team-lead­ing 4 homeruns. Greene (.297, 7 RBis, 2 HR) and White (.288, 3 RBis) have also been 
Tarkanian, who is working the remainder of the NBA sea­son as a color commentator for the Los Angeles Clippers, pre­dicted Massimino would coach a different game at UNLV. 
"I know Rollie played a slow­down half-court game, but that was at Villanova," he said. "Now that he's at UNLV, I think you might see him open things up." 
Massimino said he hoped to "re-recruit" the remnants of a Rebels team that went 26-2 this season and was ranked No. 7. The Rebels were banned from television and post-season play as a final resolution of a 14­year battle between Tarkanian and the NCAA. 

contributors at the plate for Ball State. 
The Notre Dame-Western Michigan series goes back a long way and the Irish hold a 61-52-1 advantage in the series. This week, the Broncos played the University of Toledo in a doubleheader on Tuesday and will face Eastern Michigan in a pair of doubleheaders on Friday and Saturday. 
Junior Dave Sinnes is the probable starter for the game on Sunday. Sinnes will face sev­eral competent hitters in Broncos' Scott Conant, Brian Hostetler, and Eric Dominow. Conant, the shortstop, is hitting .425 with 17 RBis through 12 games while Hostetler (.368, 14 RBis, 1 HR) and Dominow (.345, 6 RBis) have also made contributions offensively. 
The Irish have to be careful and not lose their focus this weekend. 
"Everyone's gunning for us," said Murphy. "We have to not try to play too hard." 
The game against Valparaiso if played tomorrow will start at 3 p.m. The doubleheader with Ball State and Sunday's game with Western Michigan are scheduled to start at 1 p.m. 
"I hope people will come and see one of the best teams in the nation play. There is not an­other northern team ranked in the top-20 than us," said Murphy. 

Rollie Massimino 

Three members of the team were lost to graduation and a fourth, leading-scorer J.R. Rider, is considering bypassing his senior year to turn pro. 
"We're behind, but we'll begin again on the seventh," Massimino said of recruiting for a new school. "Our first goal is to talk to the student-athletes we have and try and recruit them. 
"As far as recruiting else­where, we will recruit in California, back East, in the Midwest. We're going to recruit nationally." 
Tarkanian called Massimino an excellent coach and pre­dicted he would do "a good job." 
Junior guard Dexter Boney said he was relieved the search was over and that the Rebels had landed "a name coach." 
"He tried to recruit me out of high school when he was at 
Golf teams face Big Ten competition 
By MIKE HOBBES 
Sports Writer 
Today, the men's and women's golf teams are playing practice rounds in preparation for their respective tourna­ments this weekend. 
The women's team is playing in the 1992 Indiana Invitational. 
Due to the large size of the tournament, the ladies' team only traveled with 5 members instead of their usual 6. Playing for the Irish this week­end, in order of tee-off, will be junior Kathy Pharres, sopho­more Alicia Murray, senior captain Allison Wojnas, sophomore Crissy Klein, and freshman Liz Fennen. 
The key for the Irish this weekend will be consistency. 
"We need to shoot an average of 80 each round for each of our ladies this weekend if we are to be competitive in this tournament," said Hanlon. 
The Irish have made pro­gressive strides in competitive­ness against these teams. In comparison to some of the op­ponents this weekend, the four seasons of varsity status that the Irish have under their belts appears very green at best. 
I Pizza ~ I Pizza ~I
1 Mditional Toppiap 950 ea ..:("~f)JJOII I Additional Toppings 950 ea ~BJJO~tl· I 
Expires April19,1992 HIIIJIIL Expires April 19,1992 
I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon. Open for Lunch! I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon. Open for Lunch! I 
L-----------------1----------------~ 
Villanova," Boney said. "I think he'll do a good job if everybody gives him a chance." 
Massimino ended a 19-year career at Villanova Wednesday when he agreed to a five-year contract to replace Tarkanian. 
Massimino, 57, takes over a powerful but troubled program and a run-and-gun legacy that helped Tarkanian take four teams to the NCAA Final Four and win one national champi­onship. 
The appointment, which came seven years to the day when Massimino's Villanova team upset Georgetown to win the national championship, was a surprise because Massimino's name had not been prominent in speculation over Tarkanian's 
Despite this the age factor, the Irish are figuring to step up to and surpass some of their competition. 
"We are moving up against these Big Ten teams. We are starting to show them that we belong in their league. Hopefully, this will be the weekend where we establish that fact," said Hanlon. 
Also competing this weekend is the men's golf team. They traveled to Lafayette, ln. to compete in the Purdue Invitational. The Irish are looking to improve upon last weekends relativley lackluster performance. 
Playing for the Irish this weekend will be seniors Mike O'Connell and Mike Crisanti, juniors Chris Dayton and Joe Dennen, and freshman Cole Hanson. 
The Irish are hoping for better weather as they traveled today after having practice cut short yesterday due to snowfall and near-freezing tempera­tures. 
This weekend the Irish will look to captain Mike O'Connell and Cole Hanson for strong performances. Hanson is com­ing off of his first tournament having shot the lowest score on the team. 
Massimino said he was per­suaded to take the UNLV job when Jim Weaver, the football coach at Villanova when Massimino took the basketball job, and UNLV president Robert Maxson came to dinner at his house Monday night. He said Maxson told him he wasn't leaving until he agreed to be­come the new coach. 
Weaver said Massimino signed a five-year contract with a $106,000 base salary and other university commitments that will bring that up to $386,000 a year. With shoe contracts and other deals, Massimino reportedly will make about $700,000 a year. 
CART.REL!CrAPS
A M E R E M 0 T E A B E S 
S U P E R D U P E R P E R T 
TRUMAN.E'MTRITUS 
-TOPOS~~D­
CHAR I SMA L L AIM AS
HAT.Y 
ERIASE

ASIIA DRIES YIIPE STOIRM KLANS.DER ME NIT 0 R T RAP P E R S -EV E S S P A H N­RECREATE.PIANOS 
ALA!ICO'MMENTATE 
KATE TIMERIIMIN 
E N 0 S S C A N S C E S T 
page 18 The Observer Friday, April 3,1992 
Irish open MCC season against Detroit 
Pfeffer, Linehan lead 
By JIM VOGL Assistant Sports Editor 
Mercy! 
Bnhind a pitching staff that has allowed only two earned runs all season, the Detroit Mercy softball team stampedes into Notre Dame for this week­end's tournament, which in­cludes Evansville (8-14), Ohio and the Irish (14-12). 
Last season, Detroit (9-1 in MCC) accounted for both of Notre Dame's conference losses with two 1-0 shutouts. But the Irish beat the Lady Titans twice in post-season play to earn the MCC crown. 
Notre Dame begins defense of their two straight Midwest Collegiate Conference titles. But the Lady Titans, judging from their dominating season so far, are poised to challenge. 
The Irish begin their MCC season today at 3:00 with a double-header against Detroit. 
"I've said all along that they're the team to beat in the MCC's," said Irish coach Brian Boulac. "We're familiar with both of their pitchers and they're very tough." 
Teresa Emery, last year's MCC player of the year, is a perfect 

Third-baseman Debbie 6-0, while not allowing 
an Harlukowicz (11 RBI) supplies earned run in 33 innings. 
both power and speed (6 SB).Pam Hammershmidt (4-1, 
Chris Wasserman (.440 batting0.43 ERA in 32 innings) is the 
average, 11 RBI) and first­number two pitcher for the 
baseman Stephanie Hayes (16Titans, who stand atop the MCC RBI) are also big offensive with a 3-1 record. 
threats. "Their schedule has been fa­

On Saturday at 1:00, the Irish vorable toward them so far," 
take on Ohio in a doubleheader. said Boulac. "Down in Florida 
"They're a decent ballclub they really jumped on people 
with very good pitching,"(Albertus Magnus, Barry and 
Boulac said. "Their record is Navy)." 

SMC softball drops two against Hope College 
Special to the Observer 
Saint Mary's softball team dropped their first two games of the season. battling Hope College and frigid weather on Wednnsday. 
Hope beat the Belles 5-3 in the first game although Hope earnnd three of the runs due to the solid game Belles' pitcher Lisa Bright had. 
But the Belles were exhausted as they lost the second game 
NHL 
continued from page 20 
With Gretzky's arrival in Los Angeles, and expansion into San Jose, hockey-a sport every bit as exciting as any other and as violent as football (for the macho types)-proved that it can succeed even in sub­tropical climates. 
Next season, the league will welcome the Ottawa Senators (for a second time) and the Tampa Bay Lightning into the league. 
The owners, then, should get their act together-and fast. 
Hockey, like baseball, might very well sign its own death warrant with a ridiculous free agency system. But if the own­ers and players do their home­work, perhaps instituting a reasonable salary cap (a Ia the NBA) and better revenue shar­ing, an age old sport might not see itself forced into premature retirement. 
10-0. 

"We had a poor first two in­nings and the temperature was ridiculous," said Belles statis­tician Janet Libbing. 
With the Belles' play being so weak, coach Don Cromer made many substitutions in order for everyone to gain experience. Cromer took Carol Grobner out of center field and had her re­lieve Bright at the mound. 
"We do not have the depth in pitching staff that other teams 
SUNDRY, APRIL 26 
SMC track 
By CHRIS BACON AND NICOLE MCGRATH 
SMC Sports Writers 

Nearing the midpoint of their outdoor season, the Saint Mary's track team travels to the Mancheston College Invitational on Saturday. 
Traditionally one of the most competitive meets of the sea­son, the Belles will join 10 men's and women's track teams, including Wabash College, St.Joseph's College, DePaul College and Goshen College. 
Last season, the Belles set two school records at the Mancheston Invitational. Tenesia Davis (graduated) flew to first place in a record-set· ting 27.38 in the 200m dash. 
Meanwhile Davis, Lynn Pfeffer, Katie Linehan and Christy LaBarbera set a second SMC record in the 4 x 1OOm relay, coasting in at 52.96. 
Hoping to improve on last year's performance. the Belles look to Lynn Pfeffer and Katie Linehan to lead them in both track and field events. 
"Lynn works very hard at each meet and is calm when juggling around track posi­tions", said teammate Linehan. 
Both Pfeffer and Linehan had excellent performances at the Huntington Relays. Pfeffer captured first in the javelin, throwing for 106ft., 9 inches. She placed fourth in the triple jump, soaring 32ft., 4 inches. 
Linehan earned three placing finishes. She led the 4 x 100m relay team of Sandy Macklin, Paula Brenton and Moja Brennan to a second place finish in a time of 55:01. Linehan captured two more fourth place finishes in the 100m (14:03) and the 200m (29:09). 
"I really enjoy the 100 m dash and I have been working on my starts", commented Linehan. 
Mancheston's meet will prove challenging for the Saint Mary's team. Macheston boasts of five of its members qualify­ing for the NAJA indoor nation­als including Amy Petersine. The sophomore hurdler quali­fied for the nationals in her freshman year in both indoor and outdoor competition. She is expected to earn all­American honors this year. 
"She's running a lot better this season and we expect her to be an all-American this year for outdoor track", explained Mancheston's track coach Meg Sneeders. 
But do not count the Belles out of this meet. The team has many talented freshmen who may be dark horses. According to Linehan, the freshmen have added depth and strength to the team. With gaining self~confidence and practice, the SMC track team looks to conquer the lanes on Saturday. 


they play at Calvin on Saturday. 
~ 
"THERE'S NO RESISTING 'THE COMMITMENTS~.. AfiLM WITH ASOUND SO POTENT IT COULD PROBABLY LIBERATE 
THE WORLD:' 
-Kenneth Turon, LOS ANGELES TIMES 
"****"
Jock Mathew•, NEWSDAY 
7:30PM 

right around .500, and they start conference play next week." 
The Irish play Evansville at the same time on Sunday. 
But perhaps the biggest con­cern on Boulac's mind is some­thing far more powerful than the Lady Titans. 
After taking away five games from the Irish schedule, all three teams hope for mercy from Mother Nature. 
have", said Libbing. 

April Rhodes filled in at sec­ond base for Margie Pelton, who did not attend the games due to personal reasons. 
Hope College is ranked in the top five Division III teams na­tionally. Hope College was also last year's national champions in their division. 
The Belles will be looking for their first win on the road when 
MORRIS CIUIC AUDITORIUM  
All SEATS AESERUEO:  S19.50  
AURILRBLE AT THE AUDITORIUM BDH OFFICE,  Cinema at the Snlte  
TAACKS,ORBIT RECORDS, AND WORLD RECORDS CHARGE: 284-9190  FRI  &  SAT  7:15, 9:45  

Today 
Friday, April 3, 1992 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER CROSSWORD 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
l nilt-.1'1:: OJR Nt.W51>P..I'tR 
~E£05 f.. NEW A!N\CE COL\JIII~\ST, Sc I'M AP\li..'(ING 
FOR -rnt. JOB. 
THE FAR SIDE 


st.£, 1''/t. "DoN~ 181.. NE ~OOR. Sl\JP\1) 'fiR.ITIHI SOME. PRoQL£t.\S. l"JE GO\ I'L£KN 
'SAM~ a: 1'<\i Ov.!t-.1." N'-\5W£1<S It> \l'too...E 'Ill\\() 'fiR\\£ IN. 

ACROSS 47 Wise, loyal adviser 11 Help 49 Fur merchants 12 Ecuador's neighbor 1 Object before a 51 Arden, et al. 13 High-speed planes horse 53 Ha11-o f-fame 18 Swift 5 Surviving trace pitcher 22 Irritate 10 Track measure (pl.) 54 Enact again 24 Affected smile GARY LARSON SPIN JOHN MONKS 14 United States 58 Steinways 26 Deep gorge 

(abbr.) 61 Jai ----27 Swiftness 15 Speak theatrically 62 Report and analyze 28 Slanted 16 Burrows and Lincoln the news 30 What "nee" 
64 Singer Smith signifies (2 wds.) 65 Stopwatch, e.g. 31 In accordance with 66 "----the Mood for (2 wds.) 
Love" 32 Prophets 67 Baseball's 35 "One Million-
Slaughter B.C." 68 Glances at 38 Main roadways 69 "-magnifique!" 40 Turtles 
43 "Get going!"

DOWN 45 "Lady of ----" 1 Fishing term 48 Responds to 2 Asian river 50 Involving speech 3 General opinion of 52 Follower of Zeno 4 A shaking 54 Yard tool 5 Like Rudolph (hyph.)55 Vivacity 6 Flightless bird 56 Roman statesman 7 Gallop 57 Mrs. Peel 8 Articles 59 Elevator man 9 Breakfast dish 60 Transmitted 
10 Stone cutter 63 Crew 

Sports 
.. 
• 
page 20 
digging its own grave 
Saturday night. the Pittsburgh Penguins seized the fourth and final playoff spot in the Patrick Division with a 6-3 win over the Montreal Canadiens. 
Defending Stanley Cup champions, the Penguins were tardy in securing their reservations for post-season play. 
Yet if talks between the National !Iockey League team owners and players' union continue at their present pace, the playo!Ts might never be played. 
The owrwrs complain that their franchises are eeking out a marginal existencn. surviving day-to-day on ticket sales and nothing else. 
Thn players assert that the owners are stuff1ng their pockets with gargantuan profits secretly earned over the past decade. Because of this supposed wealth, the playPrs also want a free agency system (read: $6 million contracts) like the one had by baseball players. 
llow close are the two sides to resolving their differences'? 
So dose that at their last meeting, they could only manage to agree upon the agenda for their next meeting. Of course, they agret~d on the same issues during their summPr meetings, which were in­tended-the owners maintain-to produce an extension of the moribund union contract. 
Players contend that the owners, eager to pad their bank accounts, simply held meeting upon meeting in an effort to weaken the union's resolve and convince the players to put up and shut up. 
Yet as the regular season skates to a halt, it looks as if the players may do just that-mueh to the chagrin of fans and owners alike. 
To see the NHL in this predicament is a shamn. However, it is also par for the course for a league that has misplayed its cards throughout its history. 
Unlike another once-struggling league (the NBA), the NHL has passed through perhaps the most lucrative marketing years in the history of organized sports without capitalizing on television contracts or rising interest. 
The NBA. a league saved in its adolescence by greats such as Larry Bird, Earvin "Magic" Johnson and Julius "Doctor J" Erving, played its cards right and is now reaping the benefits. 
The NIIL, a league near death after 75 years, eould easily be saved by the likes of Mario Lemieux, Wayne Gretzky, Brett Hull. and Eric Lindros. 
!Iockey cards are gaining in popularity, a good indicator that the youth of Ameriea are becoming excited about the NHL. Love for hockey goes without saying in Canada. where, along with Christianity and Judaism, it is sometimes jokingly (and sometimes seriously) referred to as a religion. 
see NHUpage 18 
~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ 
INSIDE SPORTS 

.--------------------,explained. "They have some very young 
• Irish softball opens MCC 
season see page 18 
• Baseball home opener 
cancelled see page 17 
• Ellis will participate in Dunk 
Contest see page 16 

players and in some games they've played poorly, but in others they've played very well." 
The Irish have fallen into a similar trap this season. Early in the year, they were not playing up to their potential and their record proved it as they stumbled to a 1-3 start. 
They have notched three straight wins since then, however, including victories over Lake Forest and 19th­ranked Hofstra, and they are looking to add to that list tomorrow. Consistency will be the objective of the team as the season continues. 
"I think we've had some games where 
Friday, April 3,1992 

Adversity faces Notre Dame tennis team 
Injuries, West Virginia and Wisconsin will challenge the Irish 
The eighth-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team faces three stiff challenges this weekend at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
First, they must find a way to replace injured junior Mark Schmidt, who was 13-3 at number-five singles and teamed with Chris Wojtalik to produce an undefeated number-three doubles team. 
Second. they face an under­achieving West Virginia team on Saturday that is loaded with talent and could surprise the favored Irish. 
Finally, on Sunday they meet up against Wisconsin, a team that the Irish lost to last year and have not beaten during Coach Bob Bayliss' five years here. 
The answer to the first challenge can come in several forms. In number· five singles, the Irish will replace Schmidt with any one of a trio of juniors. Ron Rosas, Tom North, or Wojtalik are all capable and all have seen action at six­singles this year. In doubles, the Irish will most likely count on the team of North and sophomore Tad Eckert. 
"Obviously it's very hard to step in the middle of the season and compete," said Bayliss, "But these players have all been in playing 

Lacrosse hopes to add Denison to list of victims 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 

After an 11·5 win at Ohio Wesleyan on Tuesday, the Notre Dame lacrosse team returns home tomorrow afternoon at 2 
p.m. to face Denison. 
Randy Colley was the key to Notre Dame's attack against the Bishops. He paced the Irish offense with three goals and his offensive production will be needed again tomorrow if the team hopes to extend its win streak to four. 
Irish coach Kevin Corrigan is pleased with the improvement his team has shown during the stretch, which helped improve the team's record to 4-3. 
"We are starting to become the team we knew we could be," he commented. 
They will have to turn in another outstanding performance tomorrow if they hope to knock off a strong Denison team. 
Youth has hindered them this year, but they have shown flashes of brilliance. "Denison is very aggressive," Corrigan 
situations." 

As far as West Virginia is concerned, Mark Booras, a junior from Flossmoor, II., could pose problems for Notre Dame's David DiLucia at number-one singles. In their last meeting, Booras lost to DiLucia 6-4 in the third set. 
In addition to the 42nd­ranked Booras, the Mounaineers also boast two talented seniors and three freshman in their starting line-up, two of which were were recruited to come to Notre Dame. The freshmen have been up and down all year, but have the potential to play very well. 
"They're a scary team," noted Bayliss. 
In doubles, Booras teams with senior Rodrigo Gonzalez to produce the nation's 26th­ranked doubles tandem, so they could also challenge the fifth-ranked David Dilucia­Chuck Coleman team. 
"I am very concerned," said Bayliss of the Mountaineers, "Sometimes a good team that has nothing to play for can be really tough." 
On Sunday the Irish face Wisconsin, who is led by tal­ented seniors Brian Nelson and Joey Deer at number-one and two singles. In last year's victory over the Irish, Nelson beat Will Forsyth and Deer defeated Chuck Coleman, so the Irish know 
The Observer/John Rock Junior Chuck Coleman prepares to blast a forehand past his Ohio State opponent. The Irish will be in action this weekend against West Vriginia and Wisconsin. 
they will have their hands for DiLucia and Coleman. full. The seventh-ranked Irish 
The Badgers are even more tandem is looking to overtake dangerous in doubles, where teams from Ball State (4th) Deer and Nelson form one of and Minnesota (5th) in the the Midwest's best teams. national rankings. They were finalists in the "From our end, this is a Midwest Regional Doubles match that we're very con­Championships a year ago, cerned about," stated Bayliss. and they could stand in the "We will have to play very way of a potential NCAA birth well to win it." 

The Observer/John Rock 

Irish midfielder Chip Lonsdale sends a Lake Forest player to the turf. He will try to do the 
same against Denison tomorrow afternoon . 
we've played well," Corrigan said. "Now we are just looking to be consistent." 
One consistent force for the Irish this year has been sophomore Randy Cooley. After his hat trick against Ohio Wesleyan, the Irish will rely on his offensive production. For him to be a successful scorer, however, he has to have excellent support and so far this season he has. 
"Randy is a scorer, a big-time player," Corrigan explained, "but he has benefitted from the people around him." 
One unheralded aspect of the team this season has been its defense. The back line has been a key in Notre Dame's recent success and they turned in their best performance of the season on Tuesday against Ohio Wesleyan. 
Despite facing Denison in a scrimmage earlier this year it would appear that the Irish would know what to expect to­morrow, but Corrigan doesn't agree. 
"We scrimmaged them at the beginning of the year, but I'll guarantee that we won't see the same team on Saturday." 
After tomorrow's game, the Irish have a week to prepare for games against Mount Saint Mary's next Saturday and Stony Brook the following Monday. 





