.------------­
-~­
The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 8 
University taps available resources to help students with tuition hike 
By ALICIA REALE 
Assistant News Editor 
With an 8.5 percent increase in undergraduate tuition and fees, the University is tapping endowment and other sources to help affected students to meet these costs, according to Tom Mason, vice president of Business Affairs. 
Increasing wages and bene­fits, new computer facilities and increasing maintenance ex­pense for facilities such as the DeBartolo Classroom Facility are the principal items which contribute to the recent deci­sion to raise tuition. 
Increasing endowment to meet the needs of those ef­
fected by the tuition increase is a primary concern to the Uni­versity, according to Mason. 
"As we raise tuition we be­lieve we economically impact the student," he said. "Financial aid is intended to offset that." 
He said other sources are being tapped for student aid, such as the Sorin Society funds, the income from the NBC-TV football contract and bowl money. "We have a long range commitment to increase en­dowment for financial aid by 10 million each year for the next ten years," said Mason. Ten million dollars in gifts was re­ceived, plus an additional $10 million received from NBC, bowl game revenue, marketing revenue and unrestricted gifts. 
All these costs which lead to tuition increase have a direct bearing on the academic excel­lence of the University. 
The University will decline if "we don't have computerization and new buildings," he said. 
The University has a com­mitment to keep the trend line down and hopes to get tuition increases down to 7.9 percent annually. 
However, Mason said, "We are not cutting back. We have been a conservatively run and financed University for many years. We have always operated in the black. Part of that is knowing who we are and what 
see AID I page 4 


Lilly Endowment allows for development of new curriculum in College of Science 
By KENYA JOHNSON 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's College of Science plans to develop a new curriculum that emphasizes the relationship between biological sciences and chemical sciences, according to John Duman, Associate Dean of Biological Sciences. 
The Lilly Endowment, Inc. has donated $50,000 to The College of Science for the program, he said. 
"Our main goal is to inte­grate the biological aspects of chemistry and the chemical aspects of biology," he said. "For the best scientific knowledge, there needs to be an understanding of both." 
"I know many under­graduate biology majors wonder why they need chemistry, and the chemistry majors feel the same way about biology," said Duman. "But once they make it to graduate or medical school, each(biology and chemistry majors) wish they had learned more about the other subject." 
Consequently, the College of 
Science would like to start cross-disciplines in classes between the two in early years. 
"Many Juniors and Seniors have classes which involve both biology and chemistry, but we want to start within the student's first year here," Duman states. 
The money received from the Lilly Endowment, Inc. grant will be used to help pay the salaries of two new faculty members for the 1993-1994 school year. Together these professors will implement a new Physiology class integrating the biology and chemistry subdisciplines. 
But the donation is only a small part of a much bigger picture, Duman said. The whole science curriculum is undergoing change with the help of Howard Hughes, Inc. putting forth $1.5 million. 
"The $50,000 from Lilly will pay partial salaries for the new faculty members, but it's really the money from Howard Hughes that is making the difference," said Duman. "We're not only going to create new classes, but change the core of the classes we already have. The Chemistry, Organic Chemistry and Biology will have a few changes in it's content-more biology in within the chemistry and visa verse." 
In addition to curriculum changes, the University will attempt to have a research program and a high school program. 
· The research program will allow Notre Dame students to gain experience and knowledge by working in a research laboratory during the summer season. Also during the summer high school students will be involved with a similar research project. 
Another benefit will be a special program in which teachers from basically mi­nority populated schools come in and learn more about the sciences and research in order to better prepare the students in their schools. 
The program will not of­ficially begin until the 1994­1995 school year, but action is 
see LlllYI page 4 


The Observer/Sue Kehias 

In search of equality 
Feminist Forum members converse at their group's table at Activities Night. Activities Night was held at the J.A.C.C. from 7 to 10 p.m. Tuesday. 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1992 
New York University Boston University Yale University Swarthmore Colle!;Je Johns Hopkins Unrversity Harvard University Georgetown University Boston College Northwestern University Duke University University of Notre Dame Catholic University 
$22,542 22,510 22,200 22,160 22,120 22,080 21,628 12 20,427 25 19,420 28 19,051 29 17,080 32 16,994 34 
First post 'no-fly' zone inspection encounters no Iraqi problems 
MANAMA, Bahrain (AP) ­Nuclear weapons experts went to work Tuesday under tight­ened security in Baghdad on the first U.N. inspection mission since U.S.-led allies set up the "no-fly" zone in southern Iraq. 
A U.N. official, reached by satellite telephone in Baghdad, said there were "no problems" during the team's full day of work. 
The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said "a lot" of Iraqi security personnel accompanied the team, but gave no specifics. 
The 21-member team ­which includes experts from the United States France, Germany, Italy and Poland -set out from its Baghdad hotel early Tuesday without disclosing its destination. The team returned at sunset. 
The mission has been con­ducted under unusually high security and secrecy. The United Nations placed its work­ers on maximum alert after a bomb was found attached to the car of three U.N. guards in northern Iraq on Friday. 
U.S. and allied jets last Thursday began patrolling the "no-fly" zone-the part of Iraq south of the 32nd parallel. Iraqi military aircraft have been banned from the zone, which shelters Shiite Muslims who 
• 
Clash expected/page 5 

• 
New rules /page 5 


have been under attack since trying to overthrow Saddam Hussein last year. 
Baghdad has declared cre­ation of the zone an act of war and has pledged retaliation. Some Iraqi officials have hinted the retaliation could take the form of challenging the U.N. inspection teams or U.N. relief efforts. 
Team leader Maurizio Zif­ferero, an Italian official of the U.N.'s International Atomic Energy Agency, has said he expects "a very quiet mission ­and a fruitful one." 
He also has tried to disassoci­ate his U.N.-supervised hunt for nuclear weapons from the "no­fly" zone controversy. 
Under the U.N. Security Council resolution that set the 
seer RAQ/ page 4 

Bush pledges aid for victims; cleanup efforts gather speed 
HOMESTEAD, Fla. (AP) ­People still awaiting help more than a week after Hurricane Andrew shattered their lives greeted President Bush with cheers and jeers Tuesday as officials spoke cautiously about aid efforts taking hold. 
"I think we've turned the corner as far as getting food and clothing to the people," Barbara Gothard, a spokeswoman for Homestead city officials, said. "Now we'll address shelter and new housing." 
Meanwhile, state officials lowered their estimate of the number of homes destroyed, to about 10,000 or less. But Dade County officials stuck with an estimate of 63,000 destroyed. 
Bush flew to southern Florida for the second time in a week with a pledge that the federal government would pay 100 percent of most recovery costs and rebuild Homestead Air Force Base, which contributes $190 million annually to the local economy. 
"This has nothing to do with partisanship. It has everything to do with helping the families," Bush said outside Homestead City Hall. 
State leaders welcomed the news. 
"We're delighted," Gov. Lawton Chiles said. Republican Sen. Connie Mack called it "the greatest news this community could have."· 
But Bush got mixed reviews from hurricane victims. A half­dozen young women heckled him as he left. 
"I have no lights, cold water, it's disgusting," said Lizzie Hawkins, 28, who lost her apartment to the storm. "He didn't do nothing." 
But Gerardo Paz of Homestead shouted: "We appreciate what you're doing, 
see ANDREW I page 4 


page 2 Wednesday, September 2,1992
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Catholicism must confront hard questions 
Undeniably, Notre Dame is the largest national, Catholic university. As such, it is the duty of her students and faculty to reflect upon the changing needs and de­mands that the Church places on its members. 
The need for economic and social justice is increasing throughout our land, as the consumptive attitude of the eighties dropped the bottom out of the middle class, driving even more people into subcity. 
The Church must be there, ready to respond. Fortunately, the Center for Social Concerns here on campus provides opportunity and education on how we can help. 
As vocations dwindle, we must reflect on what can be done to compensate for the decreasing number of priests, sisters and brothers that help guide us. The Church must grow to see the great pool of ministers that can someday, hopefully in our lifetimes, be drawn from: women. 
Women's ordination has been opposed on the basis that Jesus had no female apostles, but he did have female followers. It was Veronica that wiped the face of Jesus and Mary that perfumed his feet. 
Priests also represent the presence of Jesus. Since he was male, women, it is said, could not accurately fill this role. But one of the shared characteristics of priests and women is nurturing and loving, which is not the presence, but essence of Jesus. 
The Church is a living, growing body of people. It must change and adapt, as it did during Vatican II. The need today in the United States is for priests 
While women's ordination is an issue of equitability and dispelling of outdated tradition, talk of allowing priests and religious to marry is more difficult. 
Celibacy has become woven into the fabric of the priesthood, mostly as a statement of devoting one's total love to God. Could married clergy carry on the same devotion and prayer life? Probably not, but they may be able to remain effective pastors. 
How do homosexual people fit into the Church? The university will not recognize GLND/SMC, but surly doesn't condemn ho­mosexuals for their orientation. 
How will the Church react to scientific claims that homosexuality may be predetermined and due to morphological brain (pituitary) differences? 
The Church must respond with understanding and compassion. We must respond with understanding and compassion. 
We must search and question. I advocate women's ordination. I am thinking about and praying for an answer to the question of whether priests should marry. I am struggling to understand homosexuality and it's place in Catholicism. I don't believe in married, gay priests though. 
Although it is our reflection, action and reaction that will help shape the Church of the twenty-first century, it is God who will put the answers in the hearts of the faithful. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Wednesday's staff: 

Production  News  
Peggy Crooks  Frank Rivera  
Bryan Nowicki  Emily Hage  
Sports  Accent  
Jason Kelly  John  
Systems  LoGiuduce  
Harry Zembillas  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
John Rock 
Managing Editor 
:~''[ 
..ii 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
CAMPUS Air Force colonel honored 
•Notre Dame-On August 31 a flag retreat was held in honor of Colonel Howard T. Hanson, the former professor of aerospace studies for Notre Dame Air Force Detachment 225 (1988-92). After 30 years of serving his country, Hanson retired from the Air Force, and he was recognized Monday for his leadership in the Notre Dame Air Force ROTC. Hanson was a command pilot with over 5,500 flying hours, including 317 combat mission in the F-100 over the Republic of Vietnam. His military decorations include the Legion of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross with three oak leaf clusters, and the Air Medal with 16 oak leaf clus­ters. 
Students Unite to Bajse Belief Funds 
•Notre Dame -The Graduate Theological Union (GTU) has joined the Cuban American Union of Student Advocates (CAUSA) and the undergraduate student government in an effort to raise hurricane relief funds. GTU has committed itself to staff the contribution table in LaFortune during lunch hours. "It's not often than graduate students and undergrads have the chance to work together in common cause," said GTU president Kitty Murphy. "We welcome that opportunity, and the chance to be of service." The tentative plan is for CAUSA representatives to deliver the money to Catholic Charities offices in Florida and Louisiana.Couple 
Awarded $1.2 Million for Loss of Their Dog 
OF INTEREST 
A Memorial Eucharist Liturgy for Wendy Wegener, of the Rome program at Saint Mary's, will be at 3:30 p.m. in Regina Chapel, Saint Mary's College. 
Ott-campus women interested in playing football should register in 
RecSports as soon as possible. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY•s TRADING September 1 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
203,096,160 -0.40 to 228.03 S&P COMPOSITE 

-0.81 to 414.03 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
-10.26 to 3,257.35

UNCHANGED 593 

GOLD 
+$2.80 to $343.60 oz 
SILVER 
+$0.056 to $3.73 oz 

NATIONAL Pet semetery owners sued and jailed 
•Mineola, N.Y. -A couple who sued a pet cemetery for allegedly tossing their dog into a mass grave instead of burying the animal under a headstone with its collar, its toys and its pink blanket have been awarded $1.2 million. State Supreme Court Justice Stuart Ain on Monday ordered the Long Island Pet Cemetery to pay $600,000 each in compensatory and punitive damages to Joyce Walp, 45, and Michael Bachman, 36, of Island Park. Walp and Bachman testified that they had to undergo psychological therapy because of the way their 10-year-old Old English sheepdog, Ruffian, was buried. The owners of the cemetery -Samuel Strauss 70, of Boca Raton, Fla., and his son Alan, 35, of Dix Hills ­were convicted of fraud in federal court and sentenced to five years in prison. 
Wilson vetoes spending bill 

•sacramento, Calif. -Gov. Pete Wilson today vetoed a school spending bill, endangering a budget agreement that was supposed to end California's two-month fiscal deadlock. Both houses of the Legislature, breaking their midnight Monday ad­journment deadlines, planned to return this afternoon to consider the $57 billion budget and a dozen related bills. Key lawmakers and staffers from Wilson's office met behind closed doors early today to attempt to negotiate a compromise on public school and community college financing, welfare, aid to local governments and other issues. Talks were suspended with no announcement of a settlement. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1776: The second Continental Congress made the term "United States" official, replacing "United Colonies." 

•In 
1850: California became the 31st state of the union. 

• 
In 1926: The National Broadcasting Company (NBC) was created by the Radio Corporation of America. 

• 
In 1971: Prisoners seized control of the maximum-security Attica Correctional Facility near Buffalo, N.Y. 

• 
In 1984: Pope John Paul II became the first pontiff to visit Canada as he began a 12-day tour. 

• 
In 1991: Boxer Mike Tyson was indicted in Indianapolis on a charge of raping a teen-age beauty pageant contestant. (Tyson was later convicted.) 


TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  58  51  
Atlanta  86  67  
Bogota  68  50  
Boston  81  59  
Cairo  91  73  
Chicago  75  50  
Cleveland  73  52  
Dallas  91  72  
Detroit  72  51  
Green Bay  72  55  
Indianapolis  75  54  
Jerusalem  93  68  
Lewisburg  80  57  
London  63  50  
Los Angeles  74  64  
Madrid  88  57  
Minneapolis  69  51  
86  63  
86  65  
83  59  
63  48  
83  60  
64  61  
76  57  
78  63  
91  n  
79  58  


--------~ ~--­
The Observer 

Wednesday, September 2, 1992 page 3 
Shirt sales 'snowballing' Hall Presidents' Council told 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
News Writer 
"The Shirt" sales project has been rapidly snowballing and 24,000 of the 30,000 shirts have already been sold, ac­cording to Steve Hank at last night's Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) meeting. 
There have been supply problems, however, because 'The Shirt" has been selling so quickly and it takes six to eight weeks to reorder this style of shirt, he said. 
We better pray that we beat Michigan to further increase shirt sales, he said. "If we win, Notre Dame may break a mer­chandising record," Hank said. 
According to HPC co-chair Jason Coyle, money will be al­located to the dorms based on how well each hall sells "The Shirt." Coyle added that HPC may be tripling its revenue. 
Joyce Steeple from Madison Center asked HPC to help sponsor campus sales of a Lou Holtz mask to benefit the cen­ter's non-profit programs at the Center For The Homeless, an organization serving people who suffer from poverty, illness or sexual abuse. 
Steeple hopes to sell 30,000 masks for $2 each throughout October. Included in the price of each mask is a raffie ticket for prizes such as a Hawaii trip, $500 grocery shopping spree or two Bulls game tickets, Steeple said. 
CAUSA and student govern­ment are combing efforts to raise money for the Hurricane Andrew Relief Fund, according to George Rau of student gov­ernment. 
They will be collecting contri­butions in the dining halls, LaFortune and through the hall presidents at masses in the dorms, Rau said. 
Security will institute a fre­quent walker program where students can arrange for Safewalk to escort them home at pre-arranged times specific nights of the week, R.G. Starmann of Safewalk. 
"This program will be ideal for students who work at places like LaFortune late at night," Starmann said. 

The Observer/Sue Kehias 

A night of opportunity 
Senior aerospace engineering students Elena Quirk and Christine Vogel talk at the American Institute of Aeronautic and Astronautics table at Activities Night. 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Gov. Evan Bayh and Republican challenger Linley Pearson didn't mince words Tuesday as they attacked each other's records in the first -and probably only -debate of the gubernatorial campaign. 
Pearson, the three-term at­torney general, used the words "fraud" and "con game" to describe Bayh's description of his fiscal management and said the governor's attempt to por­tray Pearson as favoring edu­cation cuts was "an outright lie." 
Bayh accused Pearson of "doing desperate things" during the campaign, running high budgets in his attorney general's office and failing to live up to a promise to publicly announce his fiscal plan for the state. 



Open Friday for Lunch 
12~2 
Start your weekend off right! The place to be for the 
''Class of '93'' 
open all Friday non~football weekends 
must be 21 
The heated debate took place during the taping of the 30­minute cable television show, "Inside Indiana Government," and it was only a prelude to more intense exchanges after­ward. 
Pearson accused Bayh of ducking further debates and trying to dominate the little time allotted for Tuesday's ex­change. 
"He's afraid of me. He won't come out and debate me," Pearson said. 'There's an open invitation. I'll do it any way you want, any time you want." 
While Pearson was holding a 40-minute news conference after the debate, Bayh left the television studio to fly to Boonville for an appearance Tuesday night. A campaign adviser, Democratic Party Executive Director Ann DeLaney, said there probably would be no more joint appear­ances and she blamed that on Pearson's behavior. 
"I never thought he would stoop that low," DeLaney said of Pearson's critiques of Bayh. 
"I don't expect to agree with his (Pearson's) characteriza­tions of the governor's record. I don't expect the two to agree on issues," DeLaney said. "But I don't expect him to resort to personal attacks as he did to­day," 
She said "it's extremely un­likely" that there will be an­other debate or joint appear­ance of the candidates if Pearson persists in criticizing Bayh without offering a detailed plan of his own. 
The two candidates offered outlines of their plans during the brief time allotted to them during the debate. 
Bayh said his priorities have been and will continue to be creating jobs, providing a qual­ity education for Hoosier chil­dren and exerting sound man­agement over the state's fi­nances. 
Pearson replied that Bayh in­herited the largest surplus in the state's history, signed deficit budgets, put off payments to local schools and government to make the state's books appear better than they are and allowed property taxes to rise. 
The Republican challenged Bayh to take a no-new-taxes pledge, which Pearson did when he announced his candi­dacy. 
Bayh ignored Pearson's chal­lenge, and DeLaney saidlater that the governor stands by his position that he needs to see later budget projections after the election before he could make any promise on taxes. 
\WE.fcomE Pa'tty {o'l. fiEw '3-acufty and ~ta(( 
<you. a'l.E. co'tdiaffy inu'itEd to attEnd an dfou d 10EU.U'l..H cf?uE.ption at thE 'Uniuni.ity (!lub. o( cNot'l..E. ~amE. cMai~ .LoungE cNotu. ~amE. cl/uE.nUE. (nExt to thE dfEi.bu. 'tgh CEntn} 
\WEdnHday -c£EplEmbE't q, 1992 
4:00 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. 

UNIVERSITY CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
d?.c5. <11. P. 239-7093 
page4 
The Observer 


Aid 
continued from page 1 
we do." The University is heavily de­pendent on tuition for revenue. 
"Every time a new expense is incurred, the largest part of the budget is from tuition. It ends up bearing that burden," said Mason. 
Most endowment is restricted for specific purposes, such as endowment chairs and schol­arships. Thus, it is not available for the general running of the University, according to Mason. 
"We try _to set our priorities such as faculty salaries and student priorities," he said. For example the new volleyball courts were put in because they were thought to be a priority to students, according to Mason. 
In a letter to parents of 1992­93 undergraduate students, University President Father Edward Malloy noted that all these costs have a direct bear­ing on the academic excellence of the University. 
Also in the letter, Malloy noted that NO continues to rank_ among the least expensive of the nation's highly selective private universities. 


Andrew 
continued from page 1 
Mr. President. Keep it up." 
Bush left without acknowledging either boos or cheers. 
Frustra-tion has run high among residents who feel the government was sluggish and inefficient in the days after the hurricane. 
Indiana Auto Insurance Our good rates may save you money. Call fur a quote 9-5, 289-1993. Office near camp.Js. 
GREEI<S & CLUBS 
RAISE A COOL 
'1000 

IN JUST ONE WEEKI ~LUS $1000 FOR THE MEMBERWHO CALLS! No obligation. No cost You also get a FREE HEADPHONE RADIO just for calling 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 
Wednesday, September 2, 1992 

Iraq 
continued from page 1 
terms of the Gulf War cease­fire, Iraq is prohibited from possessing or developing weapons of mass destruction. The inspection teams are to en­sure that Iraq does not retain nuclear, chemical or biological weapons, ballistic missiles, or the facilities to make them. 
Baghdad last month served notice that it will prevent access to ministry buildings. The team that was last in Iraq did not challenge the Iraqis on that score. 
Zifferero said he did not know if the U.S. Special Commission, which supervises weapons destruction, would ask him to challenge the ministry ban. 
The commission is still trying to find out about what U.N. of­ficials describe as "gray areas" in the Iraqi program, including data on Western weapons sup­pliers who helped Iraq develop its nuclear program. 
The current team, which ar­rived in Baghdad on Monday, is scheduled to stay in Iraq until Sept. 7. 
Fourteen U.N. chemical weapons experts also arrived Monday, joining 15 already there permanently. 
The chemical weapons team is about to begin destroying an arsenal of more than 40,000 chemical munitions at the Muthana facility, 80 miles northwest of Baghdad. The site was heavily hit during the 1991 Gulf War, and some of the munitions are leaking. 
More than 40 weapons teams 
the end the students will thank us. We're making students

Lilly 
more aware of other aspects of science they may have not
continued from page 1 
considered," Duman said. "They'll be well rounded and
slowly taking place, according well trained." 
to Duman. "It's going to take time, but in 


There's a lot more than a great calculator waiting for you when you purchase an HP 48SX or an HP 48S between June 1, 1992, and October 31, 1992. You'll get a bonus book that's good for free software, a free PC link cable and hundreds ofdollars back on applications-like electrical and mechanical engineering­memory cards, training tools, games, and HP's infrared printer. 
It's a really big offer. Worth more than $500. And it's going to make your HP 48 calculator even more valuable to you. The free serial cable lets you exchange information with your PC. And the free software disk lets you enter and plot equations easily, 
do 3D plotting, and analyze 
polynomials. 
m992 Hewlett-Packard Company PG12203B 
Beyond all the bonuses, you'll have the right calculator for your most challenging classes. HP 48 calculators have over 2100 built-in functions and offer a unique combination of graphics and calculus. 
Head over to the campus book­store now. After all, you don't see this kind ofdeal every day. HP calculators. The best for your success. 
FJ/o-HEWLETT 
~~PACKARD 
---~-~-~-----------------------------------------------­
-----~------­
page 5 
The Observer 

Wednesday, September 2, 1992 
Arab world in agreement concerning Iraq: confrontation to occur before U.S. election 
MANAMA, Bahrain (AP) -Fears also exist that any clash Saudi Arabia has provided The Arab world is uncertain with Iraq could derail the frag­bases for allied aircraft and has about how the allied confronta­ile Arab-Israeli peace process. been flying support missions for 
A recent editorial in Al­the U.S.-led patrols, but re­
tion with Iraq will end, but is in Ahram, Egypt's leading news­portedly not in Iraqi air space. 
surprising agreement on when 
it will happen: in time to affect paper, indicated the skepticism Kuwait, liberated from Iraqi the U.S. election. about the venture in Arab capi­occupation 18 months ago, has publicly supported Operation
In contrast to the Gulf War, tals. 
"The Bush administration had Southern Watch. But under lastmost of the Arab world is sitting 
to, in one way or another, year's cease-fire terms, the
on the sidelines and privately criticizing President Bush for stiffen its position with Iraq to emirate cannot provide forces embroiling the region in a achieve honorable results for or logistical support for allied 
operations.
potentially damaging conflict. the presidential election," Al­
Still, throughout the Middle
Bush has adamantly denied Ahram said. 
"The Bush administration East, there is widespread ex­
any political motivation for the latest showdown with Baghdad, needs to concentrate on exter­pectation of some military ac­
tion before Bush faces Demo­
insisting he was acting only on nal gains to compensate for its 
crat Bill Clinton on Nov. 3.
the basis of what was good for lack in internal policy." 
national security. The paper suggested there Rosemary Hollis, a Middle But Arab nations that sup­would be "military moves and East expert at the London­quick air strikes to show based Royal United Services
ported the United States in last America's global leadership." Institute for Defense Studies,
year's conflict have voiced 
just returned from a visit to the
grave misgivings about the Britain, France and Russia consequences of militarily chal­have joined the United States in region and said she found "a lot forbidding Iraqi planes from of cynicism . . . about this being
lenging Saddam Hussein again. They are concerned, particu­flying south of the 32nd paral­done to boost President Bush's 
larly in the Persian Gulf, that if lel, to protect Shiite Muslims re-election chances." 
Saddam has vehemently re­
the Iraqi president is toppled, sheltering in Iraq's southern 
jected the flight ban, but so far
Iran will exploit Iraq's collapse marshes. to push its perceived ambitions So far, the allies have support has done nothing to challenge to be the dominant military from just two Arab nations: it. 
power in the region. Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. 

The 5tf1 Annual Season Opener Chicago Bash Friday, September 4111 Notre Dame vs. Northwestern At: Duffy's in Chicago's Lincoln Park 420 W Diversey Parkway (Diversey & Sheridan) 8:30p.m. -12:30 a.m. $20 Donation includes beer, food and beverages All Proceeds Benefit The Notre Dame Patrick McManus Scholarship Fund  


Chicago:MUSEUMS, ART INSTITUTE,THEATERS SHOPPING ,RESTAURANTS, NITE LIF'E Michi9anCity:0KTOBERFEsr-5EPT'a'R 5r'!. 7rH LIGHTHOUSE PLACE OUTLET CENTER PorterCounty: cAMPING, HIKING. TilEOUNE3 NOTRE DAME 
-us 

NORTHWESTERN 
SEPTEMBER 5TH 
WE GO DIRECT TO TilE GATES OF CHICAGO's S0/.0/ER FIELO. 
COMFY· CONVENIENT• GREAT PRICE·I/ATSPli~IN~/ 
Call 1·800·356·2079 Station-2702 W.Washington 



~-­

--~------------­
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, September 2, 1992 
ELECTION '92 



Political parties trade shots on campaign roa 
Clinton faults Bush on proposed Medicare cuts; pledges more health care 
MACON, Ga. (AP) -On Tuesday, Bill Clinton held out his pledge of health care for all Americans as a contrast to what he said were President Bush's efforts to help the rich while driving up medical costs for the elderly. 
The Democratic nominee told a senior citizen group that Bush's balance-the-budget promises would force deep cuts in Medicare and increase out­of-pocket medical costs for 30 million older Americans by $2,000 over five years. 
At the same time, Clinton !lSaid, Bush was pushing a capi­tal gains tax cut that would fun­nel more money to the wealthi­est Americans. 
"Four more years of George Bush means more millionaires with vacation homes and more older Americans having trouble paying their gas and electric bills in their own homes," Clinton said. 
Bush deputy campaign chairman Clayton Yeutter said Clinton was taking "his favorite tactics, fearmongering and pandering, into the senior citi­zen community" and said the Democrat should "stop scaring seniors." 
Yeutter said that while Bush's deficit-reduction plan would cap overall spending on entitle­ments other than Social Security, it also would ensure that Medicare benefits kept pace with inflation. 
The Medicare figures that Clinton used came from a White House budget proposal that Bush has not personally endorsed. 
Clinton said he could bring down the deficit by controlling health care costs, reducing the federal work force by 100,000 through attrition and doing away with waste such as $600­an-hour lawyers' fees paid in the S&L bailout. 
The Democratic presidential contender hit the same themes later in addressing senior citi­zens in Greensboro, N.C., where he said Bush's health care cuts would ultimately pass on costs to the rest of America. 
Clinton was bound for Baltimore and then a day and a half of campaigning in the na­tion's capital. He planned to visit Miami on Thursday to tour hurricane damage area~. 
Quayle courts small town votes; bashes Clinton 
is to raise fears about Clinton, a job he takes on with relish. 
On a recent foray into Michigan, Quayle said the higher mileage standards fa­vored by the Democrats would cost auto workers their jobs. In Georgia and across the South, he made the same argument, with a different twist. 
Quayle, citing figures from the Republican-leaning National Federation of Independent Businesses, said payroll taxes Clinton favors for job training and health care programs would costs thousands if not millions of jobs. 
States like Georgia, heavily dependent on defense indus­tries and military installations. would get a "double whammy" because of the deeper defense cuts Clinton proposes, Quayle says. 
It's clear the, Clinton camp ,is paying attention. 
Last week, it scrambled to counter the jobs argument in the pivotal Midwestern battle­grounds where Clinton needs support from blue-collar auto and other workers. This week. the Democrats rushed again to rebut Quayle's arguments about job losses if Clinton is elected, saying the Arkansas governor's plan would create 8 million new jobs. 
l
iangle Drafting Supply 
1021 Nortll Moin Stroot Milhowolul, indi.,1 46645 
~] (2111) 251·2451 [Ill' 

NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS BACK TO SCHOOL SPECIALS PLUS 20% STUDENT DISCOUNTS ON MOST ITEMS M-F SAM-5:30 PM SAT t AM-NOO~ 
Ill 
ALUMNI 
SENIOR 






~CLUB 
Thursday is 

Cup Night! 
You may have missed last Thursday ... Don't miss this one! 
The place to be for the Class of '93 
must be 21 

Attention College of Business Administration Juniors 
If you are interested in serving on the College of Business Administration College Council please submit your resume to Assistant Dean Sam Gaglio, room 132 Hayes.. Healy Center, no later than September 18, 1992. 
'1111~ "OFFICIAl." CI IICAGO PARTY 
n 

WHERE: KRONIES ON CLYBOURN 
WI liN: FR!DA Y, SEI'T. 4, 9pm-? WilY: NDv~ NORTIIWES'IERN $25 ADVANCE, $30 AT DOOR = 
BEER, WINE, POP, SNACKS & RAFFLE CAPAaTY ~ 
700PERSON 

PRIZES= SOLD OUT BEAR>/UONS TICKETS. FOR ADVANCE 


NO(NW TIC<ETS. AUTOGRAPHED ND 

DJ, POOl. DARTS.
TICKETS OR iNFO CALL 
ETC.. ETC~ 
/IJ.f'l 93!>-9675 OR 
BAR LOCATED AT 
URSUlA~ 
RAONE & CLYBOlJR'i 

KICKING IT OFF IN CHICAGC) !! 
RICHLAND, Ga. (AP) ­Marilyn Jones shook Dan Quayle's hand and wriggled out of the small crowd wearing a giddy grin. "Great. it's over," she said. "We can go." 
Leaning against the Hilltop IGA supermarket, John Henry Radnay said he was a lifelong Democrat but undecided this year, eager to hear the vice president. 
"That's it?" Radnay, who waited 90 minutes, said after the vice president spoke for just a minute or two. 
Then it was a few more handshakes and back on the bus for Quayle, bound for Richland, Dawson and then on to Cussetta and beyond as the vice president visited tiny towns dotting southwest Georgia. 
In President Bush's quest for four more years, Quayle's mis­sion is much like four years ago: lobby small-town America on behalf of the Republican ticket. 
Before generally small, safe crowds, Quayle extols Bush as champion of traditional family values and seasoned comman­der in chief. He derides Bill Clinton as out to take more taxes from your paycheck if not eliminate it altogether. 
"Do you want a slick politician or a president who was willing to put Saddam Hussein back into Iraq where he belonged," Quayle told a lunch-hour rally Tuesday in Albany. 
This week, Quayle's target is small Southern enclaves that could prove important this year because Clinton is a son of the region. The Democrat is com­petitive if not ahead in many of the states that Republicans have come to count on in na­tional elections. 
"Right now, we would split" the South with Clinton, is the assessment of South Carolina Gov. Carroll Campbell, regional chairman of the Bush cam­paign. Campbell gives Clinton leads in Arkansas. Tennessee, Louisiana and perhaps Georgia. 
Quayle's message is almost always broad-brush Bush boosterism, full of slogans and short on specifics. He rarely speaks for more than five min­utes, with the meat of his pitch generally following these lines: 
"We know that families are strengthened by lowering taxes. We know that family values are strengthened by giving parents the right to choose where their children go to school. We know that family values are strengthened by getting the criminals off the streets." 
Quayle's major job these days 

Love Mom & Dad 
Fulbrit:ht Competition 
1993-1994 Seniors interested in Pursuing Graduate Study Abroad are invited to an informational meeting with advisor, John Welle (7204) on Thursday, September 3rd at 
7:15 p.m.in the Center for Social Concerns 

~-----1 
Wednesday, September 2 , 1992 page 7 
Professor founds EarthAction Network 



Environment 



STEPHEN ZAVESTOSKI 
Environment Editor 
Environmental issues deserve to be in the news 
The primary duty of a newspaper is to provide its readers with up-to-date, pertinent and insightful news stories. The Observer, in an attempt to better perform this duty, will run the Environment page every other Wednesday. 
The issues to be addressed are not part of a passing fad, they are imminent problems facing all of us and deserving everyone's attention. 
But it was not until recently that environmental issues were even recognized as legitimate news. While the conservation movement can be traced back to the writings of John Muir, Aldo Leopold, Edward Abbey and others, the environmental movement ­distinguished from conservationism in its broader aims and more extensive goals ­with all of its political, social and economic implications, has only in the last twenty years, with the advent of the first Earth Day in 1970, come into the forefront of national and international issues. 
The conservationists, before the spawning of the environmental movement, succeeded in procuring wilderness lands and preserving other natural areas, but environmentalists seem to be making more demands -an action that has tended to step on the feet of others. Consequently, environmentalists have found as their main opponents those whose livelihood depends on the destruction of the environment. 
But pitting jobs against environmental conservation skirts the real issues. Similarly, virtually every other environmental issue goes much deeper than what the ordinary person perceives. Therefore, the prospect of environmental reporting becomes a challenge for the news writer. 
This bi-weekly page will be dedicated to the comprehensive and objective reporting of environmental issues affecting the Notre Dame community and the world alike. This will include anything from the quality of drinking water at Notre Dame to the conditions of Somalians and Bosnians, as seen in the accompanying story. 
Ultimately, environmental issues can not be reduced to simple recycling stories and pollution pieces. When the muddy waters turn clear, we will realize that the environment is not just a fad or a trend to be followed; rather, our perceptions are changing and we will come to view the environment, and our relationship to it, as an essential part of our very existence. 
By JULIE BARRETT 
Assistant News Editor 
Prompt international action through the United Nations could stem the bloodshed in Bosnia, Somalia and Sudan, according to Robert Johansen, a Notre Dame professor of government and international studies and senior fellow at the Kroc Institute of International Peace Studies. 
Johansen is cofounder of the EarthAction Network, an international organization of 12 5 citizens' groups formed this June during the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro. On August 26, he organized an intercontinental conference call during which EarthAction representatives decided to 
Natural gas vehicles being tested 

By LORI LINDLEY 
News Writer 

In an effort to improve the air quality at Notre Dame and in the community, the Trans­portation Services Department has combined with Northern Indiana Public Services Company (NIPSCO) in a project to convert six gasoline­operated Notre Dame service vehicles to natural gas-operated. 
"Natural gas burns clean," said Transportation Services Director Marty Ogren. "There are practically no ozone­harming emissions." 
The second major benefit of the conversion is that at $.65 a gallon natural gas is considerably less expensive than gasoline, which costs around $1.00 a gallon. 
begin a campaign calling for U.N. action to establish safe havens for non­combatants in civil wars around the world. 
"When oil was at stake, a half million soldiers went to the Gulf," Johansen said. "When the Kurds were under attack, a safe haven was created for them by using U.N. guards. We want to see a similar response when thousands of innocent people are being threatened or killed in Yugoslavia, Somalia, and the Sudan." 
Johansen added, "It's time for our governments to stop wringing their hands on the sidelines and to act boldly through the U.N. to end the massacre of civilians." 
The EarthAction Network hopes by alerting citizens' 
The vehicles have just completed a 90-day trial and tune-up period using natural gas, and are scheduled to begin a two­year testing period on September 15. During this two-year period the performance and efficiency of each of the six vehicles will be compared with that of an identical vehicle that is equally used but runs on gasoline. 
"We're going to test the vehicles side by side and see what our savings are in running on natural gas," said Ogren. "With natural gas the engines burn cleaner, the tune-ups will be less, the maintenance will be less, the wear on the engine will be less-we already know that." 
The test will simply give exact numbers to help determine how many more 

Robert Johansen 
groups worldwide about important issues affecting the environment, Third World development and global peacekeeping and encouraging them to appeal to their government representatives to take action, that governments and the U.N. will respond, Johansen said. 
vehicles, if any, should be converted. 
The process of converting one vehicle costs roughly $2000 and takes seven to ten days. NIPSCO, whose vehicles have been operating on natural gas since 1981, funded the conversion of the six trial vehicles and also paid for the construction of a natural gas refueling station on the north side of campus. , Any subsequent vehicles that the university decides to convert will be paid for by the university. 
"It's actually a joint venture," said Ogren. "The goal is for us to convert more vehicles, both for the clean air and savings for us, and NIPSCO will sell us the gas. NIPSCO is going to use this to show other businesses what a good idea it is." 

St. Michael's recycles hangers and bags 
New major planned for College of Engineering 

By TRAVIS SMITH 
News Writer 
The University of Notre Dame's College of Engineering will be adding a new environmental engineering major next year in the Department of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences, according to Dean Anthony Michel. 
This will allow engineering students interested in envi­ronmental issues to focus on a major more suited to their interests. 
"In the past, many students were interested in the environmental issues of engineering," Michel said, "but now we have the right vehicle for these students. 
This new major was made possible by last year's merger of Notre Dame's civil engineering department with the geological sciences department from the College of Science. 
"The merger of our 

"Nothing influences political figures more than a sharp kick in the ballot box," Johansen explained. "The EarthAction Network plans to bring pressure to bear on governments, especially representative governments, by building pressure from below, from the citizens who vote for them." 
The organization plans to collect and disseminate voting records of government officials on key issues to add to the pressure, Johansen said. 
"The main problem the network faces now is mobilizing enough people to make politicians notice," Johansen said. "If our membership continues to grow, our political pull could be very strong." 
Anticipated alternative fuel legislation has also prompted the university to take on this project. "In ten years we're going to have to do this, so it'll be a good test for us," said Ogren. 
The vehicles that have been converted are a security car, three pick-up trucks, one step van and one cargo van. 
Ogren is very optimistic about the program and anticipates the conversion of more service vehicles to natural gas if the results from the testing period are favorable. 
"The university is anxious to do this because of the clean air benefits," said Ogren. "After the two-year period we'll decide how many to convert, maybe the whole fleet. It's too early to tell, but that's the goal." 
departments provided us with a unique opportunity to develop a program with strong interactions in science and engineering," Dr. William Gray, Chairman of the Department of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences said. 
According to Michel, the field · of environmental engineering is growing rapidly. With the increasing environmental awareness of major companies, the need for specialized envi­
ronmental  engineers  is  
growing.  
"The  nature  of  

environmental engineers' work has an impact that major companies are looking for," said Michel. "An envi­ronmental engineer will be qualified to advise such com­panies. 
"Hopefully, with this major, we will be able to attract more students with interests in environmental issues," stated Michel. 

BY STEPHEN ZAVESTOSKI 

Environment Editor 
don't pay us for the bags," he added, "but they come and pick them up at no charge." 
Once the bags have made the cycle from manufacturer, to See's, to St. Michael's, to the customer, and back to St. Michael's and See's, they are processed and remanufactured as trash bags. 
"We have had a good re­sponse to the recycling effort," said Garcia. Employees at St. Michael's wear buttons to inform the customers that hangers and bags can be returned. "We also put a tag on every order that asks the customer to recycle the bag and hanger," she added. 
According to Garcia, St. Michael's is saving a small amount of money because the laundry has been purchasing fewer hangers since customers have been bringing them back. 


Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, September 2, 1992 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor .......•..... Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ... Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 


Could smokers be the 'saviors of the universe'? 
The following is by no means smokers and manufacturers of smoking whereby my new The immediate consequence a comprehensive walk through cigarettes to the U.S. Treasury roommate informed me that she of this will be a drop in our na­
Mary Irving 
the attributes of smoking and constitute a very sizeable herself did not smoke, that tional ranking as compiled by 
Guest Columnist 
smokers, which result in their amount. Do you really want to emphysema ran in her family U.S. News and World Report. It being the saviors of the step and shoulder the tax­and would I please mind not will be said that under the poli­universe. And woe to those revenue deficit, that will be smoking in the room. cies of Monk Malloy students
his acquiescence it means that
who do not heed this created once we are phased A beautiful friendship was learn less and seem more irri­
your conversation is boring him 
apocalyptic advice. out, all by yourselves? born of that give and take table. For the rest of you, this
to tears and he's thrilled at a 
Smokers are a populous, Smoking is the most valuable between human beings. I love means a lower starting salary,
chance to escape.
culturally diverse, anq in con­social tool known to man. Wit­her dearly to this day and will an unpleasant but predictable
Inherently, smokers are polit­
junction with their corporate ness the following encounter: serve as a bridesmaid in her state of affairs. 
ically incorrect non-con­
sponsors, an extraordinarily Young attractive man/woman wedding next week. Now I have 
formists. It takes many different 
well-funded special interest smoker meets attractive mem­immortalized her in print. In the ensuing few years, the
types to make a successful 
group. This makes them ap­ber of the opposite sex who If you would peer into the university will be deprived of a
society and smokers are the 
pealing to both political parties. greets his/her behavior with, immediate and distant futures talented pool of applicants who
creative souls who add to the 
You will come to see that they "Oh, gross, you smoke? You you can readily see that the ill­have told that "your kind's not
spice of life by their willingness 
constitute a voting block whose must want to die young, heh, effects of Notre Dame's non­welcome here." These students
to laugh in the face of fashion. 
pleasure is necessary for the heh ... " Young attractive smoking policy will be legion. will turn to the real Harvard very continuance of the repub­man/woman smoker may then Having spent six years of my and Yales as fall-back schools. 
The most intelligent individu­
lic. immediately move on in search life at this university I have long Likewise, tenured and award­
als, and all true intellectuals,
There is a bond among of a more suitable mate, having ceased to question why the winning professors will con­
are smokers. These are the 
smokers which cuts across realized at once that said witty Administration does anything. tinue to jump ship. They will
people who value the life of the 
ethnic, racial, and socio-eco­individual is ideologically in­The answers always resemble head off to other institutions
mind and soul (that which 
nomic lines. Watch the little compatible with him/her. those of a four-year-old who where they may apply their
makes us like God) infinitely
microcosm of humanity which was caught being naughty in considerable talents in an envi­
more than the life of the body
congregates cheerfully around This alleviates the need for nursery school and weaves fan­ronment that does not stigma­
(that which makes us like 
public ashtrays. Listen to the that painful ten minutes of tastic tales of purple dogs that tize them as an underclass.
chimpanzees). Hence they are 
rapport that is immediately small talk which the less compelled him to eat the Play­The no-smoking policy will,
divine creatures whose justifi­
established without regard for fortunate members of the dough. with finality, thwart Notre
cations are so profound they
background or income level. species must endure in the It is with hesitance, then, that Dame in her every effort to
elude the comprehension of 
quest for romance and speculate that the become a pre-eminent research 
mere mortals. 
The unparalleled social adventure. Administration may have institution, the Harvard of the
Here is a test: Many PLS 
integration among smokers Smokers are the most virtu­looked to the statistics of corpo­Midwest and the secular bazaar
majors, and countless students 
makes them a model to be ous and well-rounded segment rate America in formulating this of values, as is the most ardent
of philosophy, poetry and the 
studied and emulated by all. of the population. They are em­policy. We have all heard that, desire of Father Malloy.
arts, smoke. Most accountants,
Smokers contribute to the inently generous, a trait ac­when smoking is removed from However, do you know what
lawyers and office managers do 
economy and the livelihood of quired from having to share the workplace, attendance and will be the final nail in the
not. Which group has for 
thousands of your fellow citi­large quantities of cigarettes efficiency are supposed to coffin, causing Notre Dame to
millennia kept wisdom and 
zens. In addition, the para­with their friends who smoke, increase and the incident of be scoffed at and maligned by 
learning alive and which group
phernalia associated with "only when they drink" ...and serious illness among the the country's, nay the world's,
could we just as easily do 
smoking sustains thousands of they drink a lot. worker bees is supposed to most prestigious universities? A
without? If you pass this test 
small businesses. They are courteous and decrease. little word called "intolerance." 
you have the innate intelligence 
Suggest another use for polite. OK, I'll admit that as to be a smoker you merely lack Unfortunately, such will not My point is not to persuade tobacco as commercially with any universal truth there be the case at Notre Dame, Inc. anyone to smoke. I merely hope 
the self-knowledge to bring this 
profitable as the production of are always exceptions to the As early as November, the that, amid all this unfounded
end to fruition. 
cigarettes and you should apply rule. However, observe the infirmary will be reporting ostracism and fascist infringe­
Alas, I am told that many IRS 
for a position in R&D at Philip grace with which one smoker record numbers of cases of the ment of liberty, you smokers out 
agents smoke, but that is just
Morris. Suggest another sector lights another's cigarette. Have flu and pneumonia, due to there will remember to feel
one of those mysteries of the 
of the economy that will be able you ever heard the words smoking students being forced good about yourselves and not
universe, the solution to which 
to absorb the many jobless "please" or "thank you" used out into the arctic cold to believe all the hype. 
will not be apparent until the 
former employees of the with such sincerity? practice their hobby. Professors Mary Irving is a 1990
Day of Judgment. 
cigarette industry and, applaud Ask a smoker to step outside too will be stricken, thus graduate of the University of
As a freshman in Walsh Hall, I 
yourself, you may now step your home before lighting up depriving students of their wis­Notre Dame and is currently a
made my first friend over a 
directly into the Presidency. and he will gleefully oblige you. dom for days, perhaps weeks on third-year student at Notre
cigarette. I made my second 
The tax dollars contributed by Although if he's too gleeful in end. Dame Law School. 
friend over a discussion of 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

I JUST PJANTW TO (j(J 
OVtR JUF's f?l3RJRT MlH ~ MR. f<&{lFf;FN. 't(XJR 5aV'5 HAOA 
~y GOOO YtAR ... \ 

A 4? Ht's 
ON/..YOOT 
A41N800Y AJUAReN/35S
51</US? 
I 
A4 IS 
~Y9ATf<3­
FAC!DR.Y, MR. R&PF&RN... 
\ 

YMH,8UT 
IAJHAT'51V/liJN6 PJ/7H HIM? CV5 Ht NffW 70 58b A 9P£3CJAlf5T? I 
M4YBG 
/'lJT CXJ!Tt 
Yt5T.H$U.. 
K#PAN tYtONIT, 
OJ<AYr 
" 

'live your own movie.' 
Ken Kesey 

?submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND,IN 46556 


Accent 
Wednesday, September 2, 1992 
Bill Rosemann 
Sucking the Marrow Of Life 

Trial By Possum: A Journey To Manhood 
I 
can't spit and I hate beef jerky ... I'm not very burly. 
My 18th birthday, the arrival of my 

adulthood, brought the age-old 
masculine doubts of: "Would 
Schneider, the 'One Day at a Time' handyman, loan me his utility belt? Would Bo and Luke Duke ask me to ride shotgun in the General Lee? Would 'Three's Company's' Larry share tales of conquest in the Regal Beagle? " 
These questions were answered when a night of terror offered me the goblet of manliness ... and l took a mighty gulp. 
My ordeal began when I opened a box in the garage and froze; not a foot from my hand writhed a bloated, hissing possum. It was the Cadillac of possums, a Leviathan among woodland creatures. Assessing the situation, I bolted into the house screaming "RAT! RAT!" 
(A word on possums: they are not cute forest dwellers who populate John Denver songs. They are vermin on steroids.) 
"Wait a minute," I thought, "as a male, aren't I supposed to enjoy rolling around in the entrails of my gutted prey?" I downed a quart of malt liquor, belched grandly, and smeared motor oil on my face for war paint. Armed with ?-toilet plunger, I crept into the garage, determmed to disembowel the demon. 
"But what if it's nesting because it's pregnant?" I whined, "I can't kill pups." My Alan Aida/sensitive-guy nature had betrayed me again. At that moment it knew it had me ... it's grey lips curled in an evil sneer. 
I slumped back into the house, my hunter­gatherer ancestors shamed. Admitting defeat, I called the Humane Society. But they told me they only deal with "leashable animals." "So if I wrap a collar around its neck you'll come?" They cut me off and sent a police cruiser to handle the situation. 
Johnny Law arrived about three hours later, wiping the remains of a jelly do-nut off his third chin. He proceeded to take control of the situation by clubbing the creature with a broom. "Stop!" I pleaded, "it may be nursing!" 
He glared at me, spit out a wad of tobacco, and continued the beating. 
Eventually Mr. Lawman decided he was sweating too much, said, "that critter's good eatin'," and returned to his speed trap. I stood numbed at this display of law enforcement expertise. The possum, now thoroughly traumatized, was hunched in the corner. 
Although the possum and I were born bitter enemies, locked in a primordial struggle for survival, we now stood as brothers. Yes, he may have had a hairless tail and I none, but we really had the same simple needs: food, shelter, Manilow (the early years). I offered the little fella' a morsel of Spam, and he nibbled it from my hand like a suckling babe. 
We hugged, watched "Beaches," and had a good cry. 
Actually, the damn thing escaped from my garage that night and I hoped it was lying in a gutter as vultures gnawed on its spleen. The next morning I found a tuft of fur and knew I had won: I had driven Grendel from my home. Baptized in the rising sun, I held aloft my toilet plunger and howled a war cry to Odin. 
Truly, I was man ... pass the beef jerky. 
Bill Rosemann is Accent Columnist ofThe Observer. His columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 
--------------------------1 
page 9 






Positive 
.. 


, Role 
:· ·,~, : ""•""';" 


Models .... 
Big Brothers/ Big Sisters Association reaches out to underprivileged 
The Observer/JohnBingham Tywone Graves, a three year participant in the Big Brothers/Big Sisters Association, attempts to drive by senior Chris Zepf. 
By ELISABETH HEARD 
Accent Writer 

Not everyone has someone to look up to, and there are many kids today who are lacking strong role models in their lives. The Big Brother/ Big Sister Association of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's fills that void by matching student volunteers with children from South Bend. 
Senior Chris Zepf, president of the organization, has been been involved with the program since his freshman year. "These children are usually from single parent homes and are between the ages of 8 and 14," said Zepf. "They are not troubled kids, and in order to get into the program they need references." 
The process of choosing kids for the program is, to a certain degree, extensive. "The children must be referred to the program by an adult, 
'I saw their lack of positive role models and knew that I wanted to brighten the outlook of at least one person if I could' 
-Darcy Mehling 
usually their mother or aunt," said Zepf. Currently, there are over one hundred children on a waiting list to receive a big brother or sister. 
The Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's association of Big Brothers/ Big Sisters runs out of St. Joseph County. "Notre Dame is an important vari­able," said Zepf. "It makes up two­thirds of the program." Notre Dame and Saint Mary's provide 66% of the volunteers. 
Interest among Notre Dame students is so high that there is a waiting list to participate in this program. Students are selected through a screening process which includes two interviews. 
Senior Darcy Mehling chose to 
become a Big Sister after seeing disadvantaged youth hanging out and looking for trouble late at night in Cincinnati, Ohio. "I saw their lack of positive role models and knew that I wanted to brighten the outlook of at least one person if I could," said Mehling. 
Once paired with a student from Notre Dame or Saint Mary's, the kids enjoy. various activities. "We get together about once a week and go to the zoo, roller-skating, or just hang out around campus," said Zepf. 
The program not only benefits the kids, but the students as well. "I get a sense of personal satisfaction," said Tim Walsh, a big brother in the program. "I've learned a lot of things myself, and I feel that I can contribute to the kids." 
Notre Dame students not only serve as role models, but they entertain their little siblings as well. "It's fun, said Tywone Graves, Zepfs ten -year ­old little brother from the program. "I like playing basketball. Sometimes he (Chris) picks me up after school or we play on the weekends." 
Graves was referred to the program by his aunt, and has been in the organization for three years. "It's fun to get involved," he continued. "I've been to Notre Dame basketball and football games." 
A major component of the program is the academic guidance the Notre Dame students provide. Stated Zepf, "The main thing is attention and 
guidance.  We  emphasize  
schoolwork."  
Because of the help  the  Big  

Brothers/ Big Sisters Association gives the kids with their homework, the children's school performance has increased. According to Zepf, Tywone's grades have steadily improved. 
Other positive aspects of their lives have also been enhanced, including self esteem, social skills, peer and family relationships, and overall behavior. It is the positive influence given by the big brother or sister that helps the children to realize his or her potential. 
Once the children are in the program, they become exposed to a 

youth ­
new and different lifestyle. It is the big brothers and sisters who ope.n their eyes to a world apart from their single -parent home. 
"Being in this program is a good experience," said Walsh. "I was fortunate to come from a good family and it is an opportunity to give back to the community. You get a chance to give a positive impression while they are still young." 
'You are the big brother they never had.' 
-Chris Zepf 

The students and kids are enbouraged to keep in contact over the summer. Mehling invited her little sister, Sharena Reed, 11, to visit her this past summer in Chicago. They spent their weekend visiting North Avenue Beach, baking cookies and shopping. 
When a child is matched up with a big brother or sister, he or she stars with that person as long as they are m the program to ensure a strong friendship develops between the two. 
Graves and Zepf have been together for three years, and an obvious relationship has grown between them as though they were real brothers. 
"I told Chris that I wanted to go to Michigan," Graves said, when asked about what college he wanted to go 
........ 

to, "'cause Michigan is gonna beat Notre Dame." Then he laughed to himself, "but I was just joking, 
The enjoyment and satisfaction felt by the students involved is tremendous. "I show him (his little brother) new and different experi­ences," said Walsh. Zepf agreed, "You are the big brother they never had." 
-----~------------------~--~---~-----,­
Classifieds  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces.  
Female student seeks roommates  NORTHWESTERN TIX FOR SALE  Help! Dave, that great guy from  NEED TIX TO ND-MICH  x3373  FOUR FRIENDS OF A PLAYER ON  
to share a 3 bdr townhouse 2mls  CALL JOE X1760  Grace( last year) who got me many  THE '88 TEAM NEED TIX FOR  
Notices  from ND. Call Karen 239-5608/  tickets for Pin. and Tenn.-WHERE  FREE MONEY  MICHIGAN GAME. THEY REALLY  
271-1486  ARE YOU? Call Liz x3783 or 2184  If you can provide me with 5-1 0  WANT THE TIX BAD.  
• MICH GAs for 5th year reunion  CALL 1075 AND ASK FOR MARK  
For more information and  I NEED ND FOOTBALL  NEED STANFORD GA's, MICH &  Call Jeff @ 283-3306  OR QUAALUDE  
assistance regarding the  TICKETS.272-6306  PSU Student tix. Will Pay $$ or  
investigation of financing, business  PLEASE! Help me. I need two GA's  exchange livestock! Rich x3367  I NEED MICH TIX!!!!!  
opportunities and work-at-home  for Michigan. $$ X3762  I NEED MICH TIX!!!!  
opportunities, THE OBSERVER  WILL TRADE 2 MICH GAs FOR 2  I have U2 (Chi) tickets. I want PSU  I NEED MICH TIXI!!!  
urges its readers to contact the  PENN ST. GAs. MATI MICKLE  tickets, TRADE?  Please help!!  Julie x4414  
Better Business Bureau of  (713) 332-6709.  Dan x1374.  
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ WANTED: BIG USED BACKPACK FOR EURO TRIP. CALL CARRIE  I WILL BUY YOUR TICKET APPLICATION$$  NEED PENN ST. TIX. GA'S ONLY.  PERSONAL  
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­ AT X2812 TO TALK$$.  283-1161  Michael  234-8306 OR 800-323-7687.  
9121 or 800-439-5313. 'SENIORS' DISORIENTATION WEEK  BONNIE DOON HAS POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR SERVERS, COOKS  TWO USC TICKETS FOR SALE CALL AMY @ 272-6264  N.D. ALUM FROM MEXICO RETURNING FOR MICH GAME. NEEDS TICKETS. PLEASE CALL 233-1296.  NEED MICHIGAN GAs WILL BEAT ANY OFFER PLEASE HELP KYLE 234 9433  FENCING CLUB: Meets 6:30-8:00, Fencing Gym, JACC. Beginners welcome. First meeting September 1st. Equipment provided. $80 per semester.  
TUES: CLASS DINNER @ MACRI'S WED: BRIDGET'S SENIOR NITE THURS: BECON BOWL & free T-Shirts FRI-SAT: NORTHWESTERN ROADTRIP----i)ame ticket,  AND FOUNTAIN Apply in person to: 52446 Dixie Way No., South Bend 4615 Grape Rd., Mishawaka  .....Diane's big sis is coming out for the Michigan game-she is unbelievably cool. She lives for ND football, and will live for you if you  BIG$$$$$ FOR STANFORD GA OR STUDENT TICKET. NEED ONE. CALL DAVE AT 3213.$$$$$ WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD GA'S AND $$$$$ FOR THREE STANFORD GA'S IN ROW. CALL  ALUM NEEDS TIX FOR MICH., STANFORD, PENN ST. CALL DAN (312) 868-0009 .  $$$MICHIGAN$$$ I WILL PAY LARGE SUMS OF $$$ FOR G.A.'s & STUDENT MICHIGAN TIX PLEASE, PLEASE HELP ME $ $ $ CALL x 2 4 5 4 $ $ $  
transpo,Second City, & hotel-$65 @ LaFortune INFO. DESK  Responsible person seeking extra cash needed to deliver cakes.  sell her a student or GA ticket-please please please!!!!  DAVE AT 3213. MAKE EASY$$$  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Will pay crazy cash for ND  Hey Niff  
Approx. 45 min/day. Must own car. Call Jim or Pat x3367 or x3360  Price negotiable. Call 4059. Thanks!'....  FOR SALE: 4 U2 TICS SEPT 16 CHICAGO MIKE #1672  -Michigan GA's. Call Paul at 289-6648.  There will be a mandatory meeting for all Irish Gardens employees on  
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!!  NEED2  Sept. 2 at 7:00 pm at the store.  
BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday Pandora's Books 808 Howard 3 blks. from campus 233-2342  Need a ride to Mich this weekend! Anywhere from Kzoo to Traverse  Dad needs 2 GAs for Stanford. He's willing to pay big $$$. Call  MICHIGAN GA'S JOE #1112  DESPERADO NEEDS Ml TICKET JUST ONE !I Student or GA.  If you have any questions contact Maureen at ext. 2670.  
City-will pay gas. Please call2331 ASAP  Chris R. at x1179.  Selling student ticket book with all  Call Tim x4116  Hey!! Do You Play Drums??  
THE ALEXANDER TECHNIQUE IS AVAILABLE FOR CREDIT, see p.43,all student levels,no overload. Information call ex6211/288-4919.  FOR RENT  OKAY, I'M BEGGING... My parents will pay big for Mich. tickets! $$$ Call #4419.  home games (section 30 seats!) Make offer: 287-6355 NEED 1 Student Michigan ticket Call Chris at 283-2727  HELP!! I Need 4-5 GAs for Nov. 7 BC game. Please call x3799. Thanks.  Well then give us a hand. Call Rob at 1441 and help us start an original band. Thanks for reading this, good night.  
MATH TUTOR-All levels 271-1532-Joe  SHARP RIVERFRONT HOME­FOOTBALL WKNDS/SHORT TERM RENTALS. ALSO APT. & BEDROOMS.257-91 01.  ******NEED TIX***"'*** Need 2 student tix for Michigan. Please call Ann at x2821 .  HELP! My little bro & his three friends are flying in from NY to see the Mich game. I REALLY need to get them 4 tkts. PLEASE call Julie x4042  WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR GOOD ND\MICHIGAN GA's 2773097  This ad is for the JACC administrators who, in their "infinite wisdom," did the following to the seniors who camped out for tickets: • Made a perfectly orderly line move itself 90 degrees.  
.....  Lost and Found LOST; SET OF ROOM KEYS. SWISS ARMY KNIFE ATIACHED TO KEYS. CALL JOE 283-3426 PLEASE HELP ME I AM ONLY A FRESHMAN. LOST: BLACK CARRYALL BAG. It contains my VISA, glasses, and many other things important to me. If found, please take to International Student Organization on the second floor of LaFortune.  BED "N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 Roommate needed for Oak Hill condo. All utilities included. Rent negotiable. Call Jon or Mark at 272-8563. FOR SALE RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR, TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR, TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY  Will TRADE 4 PURDUE GAs for 4 BOSTON COLLEGE GAs. Please call Robin at x2867. Have 4 Penn St. GA Will trade for 4 Mich GA Call Bo at 3502 WANTED: GA'S/STUDENT TIX FOR ANY/ALL HOME GAMES­MICH. A MUST! ALUMNI IN DESPERATE NEED I! 708-843­6947.  NEED 2 MICH. GA'S WILL BUY, OR TRADE FOR PURDUE, BYU, BOST. COLL. OR PENN ST. GA'S. 232-0817 $$$$Please!!! H. C. student needs any football tickets. 271-8954$$$$ I need three Mich GA's more desperately than everyone else in this paper! II Liscence to spend ungodly amounts of money. Contact Bilf at-299-1845. HELP! I need 1 Stanford stu. or GA ticket! Please call MB at x4121 ~HEY YOU­Got any Mich Tix? I need some and am  Will trade 2 PENN GA's for 2 MICH. Lisa 284-5419. NEED 1 OR MORE STANFORD GAs. JIM 273-9059 NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN PLEASE HELP. CALL 1573 NEED MICH T ICKET STUDENT OR GA ANN X3604  • Made the same line move back 90 degrees about an hour later, and • Forgot to post any guard/security at two of the ticket gates (allowing people who were just arriving to get tickets before people who had spent the night in line). I KID YOU NOT!!I!! A suggestion from all of us who spent the night sleeping on concrete, the next time you try this, call this special number first: 1-800-GET CLUE!!!!!! Sorry about the tardiness ........ . RYAN­DON'T TAKE THIS THE WRONG WAY BUT I'VE ALWAYS WANTED TO COUNT A GIRL'S RIBS WITH MY TONGUE.  
ANDY we have found your Foxtail! Call x4290 to claim {& plan to give detailed description!!!!)  FREE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-5959  •• I NEED 1 G.A. FOR THE •• PERDUE GAME. PLAESE HELP. CALL MARY AT x4416  DESPERATE! Call Eric at x3691 NEED 1 Mich tick! Will PAY and maybe trade a BYU. #2331  ..TRADE.. TRADE ME YOUR TWO MICH-ND GA'S FOR MY TWO NWSTRN-ND GA'S AND LOTS OF MONEY. -GREG X3844­$$$ Need 2 GA Stanford tix. $$$  KIRKWOOD AND RYAN-You will never have more fun in a 48 hour period. Ever. Two Words ........ . ...... You're Welcome. Dx2.  
PLEASE HELP MEl!! I lost my great-grandmother's long silver  SR TIX APPLICATION FOR SALE 45 YARD LINE BEST OFFER  NEED TIX FOR MICH. & PENN BADLY. 284-5410.  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 618-439-3338.  call Michele @3194. Wanted:  U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 TIX FOR SALE Sept.15 277-4716  
necklace with a Virgin Mary charm. Great sentimental value. Reward. #4419.  CALL MARTY X1165  TICKET$$ TICKET$$ TICKETS$$ $$$1 DEPERATELY N E E D  STUDENT TIX BOOKLET or APPLICATION $$$ Also, I need 4 MICH STUDENT TIX.  Ryan-Is that a leash I see before me? DL.  
WANTED  BIKES FOR SALE: CANN, SHW, RALEIGH. X1803  De$$perately $$eeking ticket$$ to ALL home football game$$... Sean'2263  Call  6 G. A. 's FOR MICHIGAN$$$ please, please, please, please CALL X2454  Dave, 4274 Senior Northwestern Trip for sale $65.00. Call x281 0  SHORT ON CASH ? Stop by MORRISSEY LOAN Mon.-Fri.: 11:30-12:30 1st Floor LaFortune  

WANTED: Swiming teacher for ultra-frightened non-swimer. Call 289-5358, if interested. 
HELP!!!! 
I REALLY need a ride home to CLEVELAND or surrounding area this FRIDAY, Sept. 4th. 
Can leave anytime in the afternoon. 
Are you heading my way??? Can help with gas and tolls. 
Call 284-5254 
NEEDED BYU and Michigan GA's. Please call 284-4308. 
NEED a ride to Mich this weekend! Anywhere from Kzoo north to Traverse City. Will pay gas. Please call2331 ASAP! 
MOTHER'S HELPER TO CARE FOR OUR 3-YEAR-OLD. MUST BE FRIENDLY, WITH EXPERIENCE AND OWN CAR. PART TIME DAYS, SOME EVENINGS. 232­2201. 
COMPUTER: Epson Equity dual floppy, monitor, printer. $550 or offer. Lv msg for David at 239-6963 
DORM FRIDGE-$50-271-1532 
FOR SALE: ONE IMAGEWRITER II PRINTER FOR APPLE OR MAC. BRAND NEW. NEVER USED. $150 OR BEST OFFER. CALL TODD X1634 
DO U NEED PLANE TIX TO CHICAGO OR N.Y. FOR SEPT. 5? CALL EILEEN 283-2773. 
Royal Typewriter, Acoustic Guitar, Women's Ross 1 0-speed, Gold Necklace & Bracelet, Women's Sapphire Ring, Compaq Laptop Computer: 286-SLT, 40M HD, 5.6M RAM. 272-0812. 
TICKETS 
PLEASE HELP: My dad would like to see one Michigan game before I graduate and need tickets. Call Mike 283-1161 GA's For Purdue, Stanford, BYU, and Boston College For Sale or Trade For Michigan. 289-3273 
Need tix for P.S.U. Mich, Pur $$bob x3398 
Help! NEED 3 GAs for PERDUE game! Call Jessica@ '1325 
$$ Need Mich Tic $$ GA or Student -Name Your Price Call Jim 273-2969 
NEED 2 FOOTBALL TICKETS 
(TOGETHER) FOR PENN STATE­NO GAME. PRICE NEGOTIABLE. CALL BILL COLLECT DAY OR NIGHT 714-624-4010. 
Desperately seeking GAs for Michigan and Stanford 1!!1!11 Please call Liz at x3783 or x2184. 
HELP A SENIOR! Need 4-5 GEN or STD tkt for U MICH. Last Hope for family! Tim @289-5196 
Will pay big bucks for ND -MICH 
G.A. tix. Call Joe@ 287-4561. 
HAVE 2 NORTHWEST GA's NEED MICH and/or WHOLE STUD. BOOKS 288-1027 -MARK 
I NEED 3 MICHIGAN GA'S 
DESPERATELY WILL PAY CALL MIKE AT X 2209 
WANT TO MAKE A BUCK? I REALLY NEED MICH. TICKETS! WILL PUT DEPOSIT ON TICKET BOOK. CALL JON DEBARTOLO AT x3587. 
HELPII Need 1 MICH GA Call Scott at x4243 Good price 
PLEASE PLEASE. I NEED MICH. GA'S. CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303 BEFORE 4 PM, OR 272-3753 AFTER 5. SCALPERS NEED NOT CALL. 
NEED 2 MICH. GA'S. CALL 708­251-4502 & LV. MESSAGE, OR MARK RUST AT 708-982-1776. 
I NEED 2 GA MICHIGAN TICKETS I HAVE MONEY! CALL SUSAN 289-6485 
ND Alum needs 2 reasonably priced Michigan tix. Please call (408)492­0660 X248 or (415)579-1432. 
To the women of 1632 T.C. Court:: 
Get set for a super party year, starting with this weekend--Look Out Chicago! PEG EYE 
2 Northwestern tickets for sale Call Ellen x4294 
N.D. ALUM NEEDS 4 MICH GA'S. WILLING TO PAY OR TRADE ANY OTHER HOME GAME GA'S. PLEASE CALL (312) 327-9853 ASK FOR PAUL OR LEAVE A MESSAGE. 
LOTS of $$$1!111 I want TICKET BOOKLETS! call #1756 
hey! 

i need 3 STANFORD g.a.'s! 
i have buck$! 
call katie x4907 
I Need 2 PENN ST GAs x1212 

2 NORTHWESTERN TIX for sale,if interested callx2535. 
Will trade 2 PURDUE, BC, or BYU GAs for 2 PENN GAs. Call Dean @ 287-9663 O'Hara Lounge 30 day loans up to $250 @ 1% interest 
Make great money in your extra time as a representative for The Collegiate Investment Association. Minimal time required. Great opportunity to make extra money and add good experience to your resume. For details call (708) 533­0765. 
MARGE 
Top me off Grandpa! 
I Attest To Your Gray Maner 
To All the FREE men of the world. I say UNITE!!!!!!!!! 
To the guy at the Sarin Quint party on Sat, nile who was doing stage dives ................... Nice Burns. 
Kirkwood-
Are you wearing the comfortable one today? 
Do you mind if I eat in bed? .............. . 
. .................. DONE. 
Merl's on film 
BKN-­
Happy Anniversary, sweetie! Thanks for all the great times; I'm looking forward to billions to come. 
I love you! PAC 


MLB STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS · 
TEXAS RANGERS-Recalled Scott Chiampar­Waived Frank Robinson, cornertlaa<.
BASEBALL
AMERICAN LEAGUE ino, pitcher, from Oklahoma City of the American NEW ORLEANS SAINTS-Signed Eric Martin•.
American League
Eaat Dlvlalon Association. Activated Jack Daugherty, outfielder, wide receiver, to a one-vear contract.
BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Recalled Bob Milacki
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away from the 15-day disabled list.
and Jim Poole, pitchers; and Mark Parent, catcher, NEW YORK GIANTS-Recalled Ottis Anderson, 
Toronto 76 57 .57t 5-5 Won 3 42·23 34·34 TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Activated Rance
from Rochester of the International League. Acti • running back, lrom waivers. Placed Aaron Pierce,
Ba~imore 73 58 .557 2 2·6-4 Won 3 36·29 37·29 Mulliniks, designated hitter, from the 15-day dis.
vated Joe Orsulak, outfielder, from the 15-day dis­tight end, on Injured reserve.
Milwaukee 70 61 .534 5 4-6 Won 1 41·25 29·36 abled list. Sent Pat Hentgen, pitcher, to Syracuse
abled list. NEW YORK JETS-Signed Bill Pickel, defen­
Detroit 63 69 .477 12112 5-5 Lost 2 30-34 33-35 on an Injury rehabilitation assignment.
CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Activated Michael sive lineman. Placed Siupeli Malamala, tackle, on
New Vorl< 61 71 .462 14 112 2·6·4 Lost a 33-32 28-39 National Laague
Huff, outfielder, from the 1 5-day disabled list. Re­Injured reserve.
Boston 60 71 .458 15 5-5 Lost 1 39-29 21-42 CHICAGO CUBS-Activated Shawn Boskie,
called Warren Newson, outfielder, from Vancouver PHILADELPHIA EAGLES-Acquired Leon
Cleveland 60 71 .458 15 2·4-6 Won 1 34·34 26-37 pitcher, from the 1 5-day disabled list. Recalled Hec­
of the Pacific Coast League. Seals, defensive end, from the Buffalo Bills, for an
West Division tor Villanueva, catcher, from Iowa of the American
CLEVELAND INDIANS-Purchased the con­undisclosed 1993 draft choice. Recalled Floyd
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Association.
tract of Wayne Kirby, outfielder, from Colorado Dixon, wide receiver, from waivers. Placed Mike
Oakland 79 52 .603 6-4 Lost 1 40-23 39-29 LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Activated Darryl
Springs of the Pacific Coast League. 
Pitts, defensive tackle; Roy Green, wide receiver;
Minnesota 73 59 .553 6112 5-5 Won 2 39-29 34-30 Strawberry, outfielder, from the 15-day disabled list.
SEAITLE MARINERS-Activated Greg Briley, 
and Maurice Johnson, tight end, on injured reserve.
Chicago 68 62 .523 10112 2·5·5 Lost 3 43·25 25-37 Recalled Mike Piazza, catcher, and Kip Gross,
outfielder, and Rich Delucia, pttcher, from the 15-PHOENIX CARDINALS-Waived Jeff Christy,
Texas 65 69 .485 15112 5-5 Lost 1 31·38 34-31 pitcher, from Albuquerque of the Pacific Coast
day disabled list. Kani Kauahl, James Richards and Rob Baxley, of­
Kansas City 59 71 .454 19112 2-4-6 Won 2 35-27 24-44 League. Purchased the contract of Rafael Bourni­
fensive linemen; Robert Jackson, John Jackson,
California 59 73 .447 20112 2·4-6 Lost 2 32-30 27-43 
gal, shortstop, from Albuquerque. Recalled Billy 
Tyrone Williams and Eddie Brown, wide receivers;
Seattle 55 77 .417 24 t/2 2·6·4 Won 1 32·36 23-41 Ashley, outfielder, from San Antonio of the Texas 
Pat Ellers, safety; Tim Jorden, halfback; Sidney
League. 

Coleman, linebacker; Eric Blount, running back,
NATIONAL LEAGUE MONTREAL EXPOS-Signed Ricardo Solis,
AMERICAN LEAGUE and Alphonso Taylor, defensive lineman. 
E..t Dlvlalon pitcher, to a minor-league contract. 
BATTING-EMartine2, Seattle, .349; Puckett, SAN DIEGO CHARGERS-Recalled Tony Sav­
w L Pet GB l10 Streak Home Away NEW YORK METS-Acquired Ryan Thompson, 
Minnesota, .328; Mack, Minnesota, .325; Thomas, age, defensive tackle, and Wa~er Stanley, wide re­
Pittsburgh 75 56 .573 6-4 Won 3 39-24 36-32 outfielder, from the Toronto Blue Jays to complete
Chicago, .324; RAiomar, Toronto, .31 7; Molttor, ceiver, from waivers. Claimed Mred Pupunu, tight 
Montreal 71 59 .546 3 112 2-7-3 Won 2 34-31 37-28 the David Cone trade. Designated Mike Birl<beck,
Milwaukee, .317; Griffey, Seattle, .308. end, off waivers. Placed James Fuller, strong
Chicago 67 64 .511 8 2·7·3 Lost 1 35-28 32-36 pitcher, for assignment. Recalled Mark Dewey,
RUNS-Phillips, Detroit, 94; EMartine2, Seat· safety, and Eric Jonassen, offensive tackle, on in·
St. Louis 65 65 .500 9 112 7-3 Won 5 35-29 30-36 pitcher, from Tidewater of the International League. 
tie, 92; Knoblauch, Minnesota, 88; Anderson, Bal­jured reserve. Placed Marquez Pope, cornerback,
New Vorl< 60 69 .465 14 7-3 Lost 2 34-31 26-38 PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Activated Tommy
timore, 86; Puckett, Minnesota, 85; RAiomar, on reserve-non-football Illness.
Philadelphia 53 76 .411 21 2·8 Lost 1 31-36 22-40 Greene, pttcher, from the 60-day disabled list, and
Toronto, 84; Thomaa, Chicago, 83; Carter, SEATTLE SEAHAWKS-Signed Travis Mc­
West Division Jim Lindeman, outfielder, from the 15-day disabled
Toronto, 83. Neal, tight end, signed a one-year contract. 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away list. Purchased the contract of Keith Shepherd.
RBI-Fielder, Detroit, 108; JuGon2aie2, Texas, TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS-Re-signed
Atlanta 77 52 .597 4-6 Won 2 39-24 38-28 pitcher, from Reading of the Eastern League.
95; Carter, Toronto, 94; GBell, Chicago, 94; Alonzo Highsmith, running back. Placed ian Beck­
Cincinnati 71 59 .546 6 112 4·6 Lost 5 41·20 30·39 SAN DIEGO PADRES-Activated Dann Bi·
McGwire, Oakland, 93; Puckett, Minnesota, 92; les and Scott Dill, guards; Rogerick Green, defen­
San Diego 69 62 .527 9 2-5-5 Lost 4 40-28 29-34 lardello, catcher, from the 1 5-day disabled list. Pur­
Thomaa, Chicago, 90; Devereaux, Baltimore, sive back; Mike Pawlawski, quarterback; and Reg­
Houston 61 70 .466 17 2-8·2 Won 1 36-29 25-41 chased the contract of Gene Harris, pitcher, from
90. gie Rogers, delensive lineman; on injured reserve.
San Francisco 59 72 450 19 2·2·8 Lost 7 36-33 23-39 Las Vegas of the Pacific Coast League. Assigned 
HITS-Puckett, Minnesota, 173; EMartine2, Recalled Elijah Alexander, linebacker; Willie
Los Angeles 54 78 .409 24 112 2-8 Won 1 34-35 20·43 Erik Schullstrom, pttcher, to Las Vegas.
Seattle, 171; Mack, Minnesota, 162; Baerga, Cleve­Drewrey, wide receiver; Randy Grimes, center;
~ dAnotAs li~! game was a win. International League
land, 160; Molitor, Milwaukee, 154; Fryman, Detrott, Rhett Hall, defensive lineman; and Stanford Jen­
SYRACUSE CHIEFS-Called up Shawn Scott,
AMERICAN LEAGUE 151; Knoblauch, Minnesota, 150. nings, running back; from waivers. Claimed Darrick
outfielder-infielder, from Knoxville of the Southern
Monday's Gomes DOUBLES-EMartinez, Seattle, 46; Mattingly, Brownlow, linebacker, off waivers from Buffalo; and
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
League.

Toronto 9, Chicago 2 New York, 34; Griffey, Seattle, 33; Jefferies, Kansas Darryl Pollard, cornerback, off waivers from San
Monday'• Games 

South Atlantic League
Minnesota 5, Detrott 3, 10 innings Atlanta 8, New Vorl< 6, 14 innings, 1st game City, 32; Yount, Milwaukee, 32; Hall, New York, 31; Francisco. Waived Anthony McDowell and Robert
CHARLESTON RAINBOWS-Called up Bryce
Milwaukee 4, New York 1 Atlanta 7, New Vorl< 5, 2nd game 5 are tied with 30. Wilson, fullbacks.
Floria, pitcher, from High Desert of the Calfiornia
Kansas City 5, Texas 2 TRIPLES-Devereaux, Baltimore, 10; Ander­WASHINGTON REDSKINS-Signed Kelly
Montreal 8, Cincinnati 4 
League and Reggie Stewart, outfielder, from
Seattle 15, Boston 2 Chicago 2, Los Angeles 0 son, Battimore, 9; Lofton, Cleveland, 8; Wohnson, Goodburn, punter; Johnny Thomas, defensive
Scottsdale of the Arizona League. Placed Lenny
Baltimore 4, Oakland 0 Houston 9, Philadelphia 2 Chicago, 8; RAiomar, Toronto, 7; Listach, Milwau­back; Jeff Rutledge, quarterback, and James Jenk·
Wentz, outfielder, on the disabled list.
Cleveland 4, CaiWornia 3 St. Louis 6, San Diego 2 kee, 6; Sierra, Texas, 6; Whtte, Toronto, 6; Ralnea, ins, tight end. Claimed Todd Bowles, defensive
FOOTBALL
Tuesday'• Gamea Only games scheduled Chicago, 6; Molttor, Milwaukee, 6. back, off waivers from San Francisco. Plaoed Terry
National Football League
Toronto 9, Chicago 3 Tueaday'a Gamaa HOME RUNS-JuGonzalez, Texas, 38; MeG· Hoage, defensive back; Eric Williams, defensive
BUFFALO BILLS-Piaoed AI Edwards, wide re­
Minnesota at Detrott, (n) wire, Oakland, 38; Fielder, Detroit, 29; Carter. tackle; Mo Elewonibi, offensive tackle; Chris Hakel,
Late Gamea Not Included 
ceiver, and Clifford Hicks defensive back. on in­
New Vorl< at Milwaukee, (n) Los Angeles 5, Chicago 4, 1 3 Innings Toronto, 29; Deer, Detrott, 27; Belle, Cleveland, 26; quarterback; and John Settle, running back; on in­
jured reserve.
Texas at Kansas Ctty, ( n) Montreal at Cincinnati (n) Tettleton, Detroit, 26. jured reserve.
CINCINNATI BENGALS-Signed Rickey Dixon, 
Baltimore al Oakland, (n) STOLEN BASES-Listach, Milwaukee, 48; HOCKEY
Pittsburgh 5, San Francisco 3 
safety.

Boston at Seattle, (n) Atlanta at New Vorl<, (n) Anderson, Baltimore, 45; Polonia, California, 45; National Hockey League
CLEVELAND BROWNS-Waived John Brown,
Cleveland at California, (n) St. Louis 2, San Diego 0 RHenderson, Oakland, 45; Lohon. Cleveland, 44; NEW YORK RANGERS-Signed David
Lynn James, and Kennan McCardell, wide re­
Wednesday's Games Philadelphia at Houston, (n) RAiomar, Toronto. 38; Ralnea, Chicago, 38. Archibald, center.
ceivers; Cedric Figaro, linebacker; Brad Goebel,
Minnesota (Erickson 9·10) at Detrott (Terrell 5· Wedneaday'a Garnea PITCHING (15 Decisions)-JuGuzman, SOCCER
quarterback; Stephen Braggs, Wayne Haddix, and
9), 1:35 p.m. Atlanta (Smott2 14-9) at New Vorl< (Schourek 3· Toronto, 12·3, .800, 2.29; JaMorrls, Toronto, 17-5, Notional Professional Soccer League
Alonzo Hampton, cornerbacks; Lance Zeno, center;
Baltimore (McDonald 12-10) at Oakland (Moore .773, 4.22; Mussina, Baltimore, 13-5, .722, 2.81; NPSL-Approved the move of the Illinois Thun­
6), 1:40 p.m. , , 
and Joe Morris, running back. Placed Kevin Mack,
13-1 0), 3:15 p.m. McDowell, Chicago, 18-7, .720, 3.21; Fleming, der to Denver.
Los Angeles (Ojeda 6-6) at Chicago (Morgan 
fullback, and Frank Minnifield, cornerback, on in­
Chicago (Hibbard 9-6) at Toronto (Key 8-12), Seattle, 15-6, .714, 3.07; Appier, Kansas City, 15-6, COLLEGE
13·6), 2:20 p.m. 

jured reserve . 
7:35p.m. .714, 2.41; Bosio, Milwaukee, 12-5, .706, 3.82. BROWN-Named Deb Carreiro women's soft­
Montreal (Gardner 11-9) at Cincinnati (Rijo 10· 
DENVER BRONCOS-Signed Ricky Nattiel,
New York (Sanderson 1 1 -8) at Milwaukee 9), 7:35p.m. STRIKEOUTS-Clemens, Boston, 1 78; ball coach. 
wide receiver. Placed Vance Johnson, wide re­
(Eldred 5-1), 8:05p.m. San Francisco (Black 1 0-6) at Pittsburgh RJohn son, Seattle, 175; Perez, New York, 1 74; COLBY-Named Raymond Gee and Dwayne
ceiver; Steve Sewell and Sammie Smith, running
Texas (Brown 17-8) at Kansas Ctty (Reed 2·5), (Wakefield 4·1), 7:35p.m. Appier, Kansas City, 146; JsGuzman. Texas. 144; Brooks assistant football coaches; John Illig
backs; and John Granby, defensive back; on in­
8:35p.m. San Diego (Hurst 13-7) at St. Louis (Ciarl< 3-7), JuGuz man, Toronto, 140; Nagy, Cleveland, 138. women's tennis coach; Anne McManus women's
jured reserve. Recalled Tim Lucas and Johns
Boston (Clemens 16-8) at Seattle (leary 6-6), 8:05p.m. SAVES-Eckersley, Oakland, 42; Aguilera, assistant soccer coach; and David Berard assistant
Sullins, linebackers, from waivers. Claimed Brad
10:05 p.m. Philadelphia (Mulholland 12·8) at Houston Minnesota, 34; Montgomery, Kansas City, 32; 01· hockey coach.
Daluiso, kicker, off waivers from Dallas; and Victor
Cleveland (Armstrong 5-14) at Camornia (Finley son, Baltimore, 31; JeRussell, Texas. 28; Reardon, CONNECTICUT-Named Jeff Bresnahan sail·
(Harnisch 5·9), 8:35p.m. 

Jones. fullback. off waivers from the Houston.
4-1 1), t0:35 p.m. Boston, 27; Henry, Milwaukee, 25. ing coach. 
WE'RE NOT JUST EDUCATIONAL MEDIA ANYMORE! 

To make reservations for the use of media in DeBartolo Hall. 
To report classroom prob-Iems. 
To schedule classrooms on an occasional basis by professors teaching in other buildings. 
To schedule special class­room services like class videotaping or audio conferencing. 
To make reservations for 
live or recorded satellite 
programming or teleconfer­
encing. 
Educational Media Administrative Office Rm 115 DeBartolo Hall 239-8770 Building Manager Rm 127 DeBartolo Hall 239-8733 
To make reservations for  To make reservations for the  
classroom use of media  classroom use of particular  
anywhere on campus except  titles from Educational  
DeBartolo Hall.  Media's collection of video­ 
tapes, videodiscs & CO's.  
To rent audio or video  
equipment for non-class use.  
To order and return films/  
videos form outside services.  
To report equipment prob­ 
lems for repair and mainte­ 
nance.  To use an individual viewing  
carrel or small groupviewing  
room to preview or review  
Departmental accounting  classroom media.  
and bookkeeping.  
To check out a laser pointer,  
To make paper or acetate  microphone, or slide projec­ 
copies on Canon Color  tor for use during class in  
Copier.  DeBartolo Hall.  

Photography ....... 239-7630 Many traditional and elec­tronic B&W and color photographic services available  
Graphics ............. 239-8633 To prepare classroom mate­rials with the aid of comput­ers. Traditional graphic support for publishing.  
AudioNideo Production .......... 239-8776 Video or audio recording of classroom or non-classroom events. Audio or video tape duplication.  

·­
---~ 
... 

page 12 The Observer Wednesday, September 2,1992 


Top seeds advance, Dilucia falls in U.S. Open first-round 
I RECYCLE THIS! I 
Taco Bell Presents 
AMERICA'S ROCK 'N' ROLL BAND 
NEW YORK (AP) -Boris  Fairbank-Nideffer 6-3, 7-6 (7­ 
Becker, without the "boom" or  3), while Huber, second in  
the bombast, broke out enough  Germany only to Graf, fell to  
groundstrokes today to bounce  Sabine Appelmans of Belgium  
Kevin Curren in the opening  6-3, 6-4.  
round of the U.S. Open.  
In a subdued performance  In other first-round matches  
between two old foes, the sev­ involving seeded players, No. 3  
enth-seeded Becker slammed  Pete Sampras defeated David  
only eight aces as he eliminated  DiLucia 6-3, 7-5, 6-2 and No.  
Curren 6-2, S-7, 6-3, 6-4 in a  10 Carlos Costa of Spain de­ 
match that was two minutes  feated South African Christo  
short of two hours.  van Rensburg 6-4, S-7, 6-3, 6-2  
But today's match had none  in men's singles.  
of the flair nor the fireworks  No. 6 Jennifer Capriati  
that punctuated their first  defeated Nicole Muns­ 
meeting, the 1985 Wimbledon  Jagerman of the Netherlands 7­ 
final, which rocketed the  6 (7-3}, 6-2; No. 12 Nathalie  
German to fame as a 17 -year­ Tauziat of France defeated  
old champion.  Nadine Ercegovic of Croatia 6­ 
Curren, whose serve once  3, 6-2; No. 13 Helena Sukova of  
was considered the biggest in  Czechoslovakia defeated  
tennis, finished with seven  Sweden's Catarina Lindqvist 6­ 
aces.  0, 6-4; and No. 15 Katerina  
Maleeva of Bulgaria defeated  
Earlier, Gabriela Sabatini,  Australia's Jenny Byrne 7-5, 6­ 
shaking off the dust of inactiv­ 2.  
ity, powered her way into the  
second round while No. 10 Jana  Sabatini, playing only her  
Novotna and No. 11 Anke  third match since her semifinal  
Huber became the first seeded  loss to Steffi Graf at Wimbledon  
players to lose in the year's fi­ in July, ousted Linda Harvey­ 
nal Grand Slam tournament.  Wild 6-1, 6-2 in a match not  
nearly as close as the score.  
Sabatini, playing only her  Huber, second in Germany  
third match since her semifinal  only to Graf, fell to Sabine  
loss to Steffi Graf at Wimbledon  Appelmans of Belgium 6-3, 6-4.  
in July, ousted Linda Harvey­ 
Wild 6-1, 6-2 in a match not  The fourth-seeded Sabatini,  
nearly as close as the score.  who won the U.S. Open two  
Novotna of Czechoslovakia  years ago, suffered a knee in­ 
fell to South African Rosalyn  jury at Wimbledon. She didn't  
DuBose  or pledge his career-ending injury insurance as security in order to obtain the loan. The  
continued from page 16 and the Courtney's made the loan out of interest in DuBose's academic development. The NCAA also investigated statements that DuBose illegally obtained a car loan. According to Rosenthal, the NCAA found that DuBose did not market his professional earnings potential  NCAA ruled that the car loan that DuBose obtained was not in violation of its amateur pro­visions. Holtz spoke to DuBose briefly yesterday about the ruling, but did not have a chance to talk with the team about the situa­tion. DuBose's response to the ruling is expected today.  

touch a racket for two weeks following the grass-court tour­nament, and didn't play a match for 53 days, not until she defeated Kimberly Po in San Diego last week. She lost her second match, to Leila Meskhi. 
But she was in fine form in today's opening match at the National Tennis Center. After a preliminary two games, in which they both tested the hardcourts and checked the wind, holding serve to 1-1, Sabatini ripped through the next nine games before Harvey­Wild finally held again. By then, the Argentinian led 6-1, 4-1 and a second-round berth was two service games away. 
"I was a little concerned," Sabatini said. "I didn't have many tough matches before this and I didn't play well in San Diego. I made this match easier." 
Top-seeded Monica Seles and the second-seeded Graf posted easy first-round victories on Monday, the opening day of the two-week tournament. But what Monica did, Steffi did bet­ter. 
In winning, both lost just 24 points. But Graf swept past Halle Cioffe 6-0, 6-2 in 42 min­utes while Seles took three minutes more to blitz Audra 
Open began on Monday in New York. 
AP File Photo
Keller 6-1, 6-0. 


Attention Students! 
NBD Bank has 



you need! 
• 
No-Fee Checking and Savings Accounts •Loans 

•Computer 
Banking with NBD Express •AlMs 

• 
Extended Banking Hours 


Visit N BD Bank located a few blocks from the Notre Dame campus. 


NBD Bank 18083 S.R. 23 North 273-1280 
-­@ 
Lii:NOI!I't

Member FDIC 
---~---·~-------~--~ ~---~-------------------~-----------------------~---..... 
Wednesday, September 2,1992 The Observer page 13 



improve struggling San Diego defense 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -First there were the No­Names. Then the Killer B's. 
Now Bill Arnsparger has a new task -trying to get the San Diego Chargers' defense to where it can be called anything but miserable. 
After an eight-year absence, Arnsparger is back in the NFL as the Chargers' defensive co­ordinator. He designed the Miami Dolphins' No­Name Defense in the 1970s, then shaped the Killer B's unit in the early 1980s. 
''I've always found if you're good or lousy, well. somebody names it," Arnsparger said. "You just hope you don't get named for being lousy." 
The Chargers aren't ready for a printable nickname for their defense, which was one of the NFL's most-yielding in the 1980s. Former defensive coordinator Ron Lynn shaped them up in 1989 and 1990, but they reverted to form last year, finishing 19th overall in the league in a 4­12 season that got the coaching staff fired. 
Now it's Arnsparger's turn. There are some weaknesses. most notably in the secondary, and unsigned tackle Joe Phillips says he won't play for San Diego. 
But there are standout players, including Junior Seau, who's been moved from inside linebacker to the right outside position, right end Leslie O'Neal and cornerback Gill Byrd, the interception master who in his ninth season was finally voted to his first Pro Bowl start. 
"The thing that's impressed me is we do have talent and those individuals are working together to have a good team," said Arnsparger, who's switched from a 3-4 alignment to a 4-3. 
"That's what defense is, really, working together as a group, to have confidence in each other, that you know that that other person is going to work to carry out his assignment the best he can. We talk about lining up right, knowing our assignment and knowing that we can play physical. 
"I think we have an opportunity to be a competitive defense." 
correction 
The University of Miami's opponent thisSaturday was mcorrectly reported 
-yesterday. The Hurricanes will play the Iowa Hawkeyes. 
performance, Brown could not 
name any particular stars. 
"I don't think anybody had an continued from page 16 outstanding match," Brown noted. "We played a little bit 

Irish 

Brown said. "There was really ·hesitant, but I think we'll im­
no doubt that we were in 
prove. That's pretty standardcontr.ol." _ 
for an opening match." And the Irish hope the results
The match was a balanced 
will be standard for the season.
team effort for Notre Dame. Though happy with the team's 

Catch the Action! 

Arnsparger takes little credit for the Dolphins' defensive successes. His defenses ranked either first or second in the NFL for fewest points allowed in nine of his 11 full seasons at Miami. Because his 1973 defense allowed only 150 points, he received a game ball after the 24-7 Super Bowl win over Minnesota. 
"I had good players. That makes everybody successful," Arnsparger said. 
"Good players that not only have ability, but have an understanding of their responsibilities and will keep their focus when bad things happen. In a contact sport, you're going to lose a physical battle now and then. You hope you don't lose too many of them." 
So does Byrd, who was drafted by the Chargers in 1983, the season after their last playoff appearance. 
"Coach Arnsparger has proven he's a winner · wherever he has gone and we believe in him," Byrd said. 
"He's very unassuming, but you know he's in control. Hopefully, he can do the same things here he did at Miami with the great defenses they had." 
Arnsparger, 65, was head coach at LSU from 1984-86. He was the athletic director at Florida for nearly five years before being hired on Jan. 13 by new Chargers coach Bobby Ross. 
"I was happy at Florida and we had a good program and made a lot of progress," he said. "But at the same time I'd always enjoyed the 
sideline and I didn't feel hesitant."  
After  Ross  was  hired,  one  of the  many  
telephone  messages  he  had  was  from  
Arnsparger.  

"I knew he was an outstanding coach, but I had no inkling that he was interested in getting back in coaching," Ross said. "I figured he was proba­bly calling to recommend somebody to me." 
Although both were college head coaches at the same time, they didn't know each other personally. 

~-GJ

(f~ ~ 
Notre Dame vs. Northwestern September 5th 
Round trip bus transportation to Soldier Field (Buses leave at 1 0 am from CCE) 
Tickets: $1 0 at the La Fortune Info Desk 
Student tickets to game available at the JACC Athletic Box Office 
··::\ 


. ;:/:::
:~f } =~ :: ? : 

·:·:·•.·· .-.... :••:•:•:•: 
•· 
~ 
-: 
.. 

Dream 
continued from page 16 
football history graced the play­ing field last year, and the same players return. Hope was installed into the minds of Notre Dame faithful in the form of new defensive coordinator Rick Minter... and DuBose. So we are starting the season at 50%. 
Pete Bereich is a capable re­placement, and at times last year looked impressive. He fin­ished third in tackles last sea­son and started six games, but DuBose is DuBose. 
In no way do I feel that "The Dream" is an indication of the outcome of the contest on September 12. DuBose Syn­drome sufferers everywhere pray it isn't, because a win over Michigan appears to be the only cure. 
For now we will suffer through the sleepless nights, and horrifying images, in hope that one day number "31" will be glaring over the line of scrimmage instead of in our dreams. 

Jefferson  


Main & Jefferson Hours Mon-Th 11 a.m.-11 p.m. Fri-Sat 11a.m. -11 p.m. 
Sun 4 p.m. -9 p.m 
257, 1100 
"This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" 
Authentic New York Pizza 
Calzones• Hot and Cold Subs•Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs Dine In • Carry Out 
$2.00 off any pizza with Student ID 
Canseco stunned by trade to Rangers 
OAKlAND, Calif. (AP)-Jose Canseco, the embodiment of the Oakland Athletics' brash, bruising style, took the news quietly. 
As he readied for a first-in­ning at-bat Monday night against Baltimore, Canseco was called back for pinch-hitter Lance Blankenship and, in the runway, manager Tony La Russa told him he had been traded. 
"I feel awkward and strange right now," Canseco said. "It really hasn't hit me yet. 
''I'm disappointed I won't be around to enjoy the A's the success the remainder of the season. I can't really feel any positive emotions when I've just been traded from the (organization) I've been with for 10 years." 
Canseco, a two-time AL home run champion who was hitting .246 this season with 22 homers and 72 RBis, was sent to the Texas Rangers in ex­change for outfielder Ruben Sierra, pitcher Bobby Witt, re­liever Jeff Russell and cash. 
The first-place A's sought more experience and depth in 


Holtz 
continued from page 16 
Norman's spot while the senior is out. 
"The initial reports are at least four weeks, maybe longer," said Holtz. "But some people heal faster than others." 
Johnson, who in the past has served as the Irish long snap­per, has not started a game in his Notre Dame career, playing behind standout centers Mike Heldt and Gene McGuire and now Tim Ruddy. 

Even with Norman out indef­initely and an inexperienced Johnson in the starting lineup, Holtz was able to find other problems with his team. 
"I have never come out of two-a-days unsure about both the offensive and defensive lines," said Holtz. "Usually one looks good when the other looks bad." 
their pitching staff for the pen­nant stretch run, and they gave up one of baseball's most dy­namic players to get it. Sierra is expected to replace Canseco in right field. 
"It wasn't one of my happiest days, telling Jose he was in­volved in a trade," La Russa said. "But I think we're taking our best shot at finishing off the division, and if we can finish it, this sets us up for the postsea­son better. 
Canseco, 28, had begun the night playing right field in the game, which Baltimore won 4­0. 
After he was told of the trade, he cleaned out his locker. He sat in the locker room for sev­eral minutes in stunned disbe­lief and -still dressed in his Oakland uniform -addressed a news conference in the basement of the Coliseum.. 
"From their view it makes a lot of sense from a business point of view," Canseco said. "Maybe it's an indication it's time to move on." 
A Rangers spokesman said today that Canseco will join the team on Thursday in New York. 
But this season, with the ab­sence of Eric Jones, the Irish defensive line, which was al­ready suspect, becomes more so. Though Holtz was quite concerned with the unit as a whole, he did express delight with the play of junior Bryant Young. 
"If you look around the coun­try, you will see that Bryant Young is one of the best football players out there," Holtz said. "He is among the best defensive linemen that I have been associated with." 
Though Young's position in the Irish lineup is secure, an­other gifted junior, Willie Clark, remains lost in the Irish shuffie. After starting last year in the defensive backfield, Clark was prepared to make a shift to tailback last spring. 
But academic difficulties derailed that plan; and he missed the crucial spring drills. Last week, Clark, the fastest member of the Irish team, ap­
.. 1 

Canseco's awesome power helped the A's win the the AL pennant in 1988 and a World Series title in 1989. The A's also won the AL pennant in 1990, but were upset in the Series by Cincinnati. 
Canseco often has had some controversial moments with the A's, including this year when he left a game at Oakland in the eighth inning, sparking the ire of several teammates. 
His off-field demeanor has also been controversial as he received a number of celebrated speeding tickets and had some public domestic problems with his wife. 
But Canseco's contributions on the field were enormous. 
"It's a sad day really," A's reliever Dennis Eckersley said. "As a team, I think we'll be a better team because we needed pitching and we got it. 
"But he's a great player. I feel sorry for him because I know there's a lot of emotions that go with it, regardless of how strong of a person you are. When you spend a lot of time in one place, it's kind of hard to swallow." 
proached Holtz about moving back to the defensive side of the ball, and the coach gave him that chance on Monday. 
"Willie Clark did not want to be a tailback," Holtz said. "His heart was not in it." 
But Clark was back at tailback at yesterday's practice, playing behind senior Reggie Brooks and sophomore Lee Becton. 
Hopefully, Holtz can find a way to fill in the blanks before Saturday's opener at Northwestern. 

Jose Canseco will be taking batting practice in a Texas Ranoers uniform beginning tomorrow. AP File Photo 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paidpositions: 
Day Editor Typist 
Contact Colleen Knight at 239:-5303 for more information. 


Student fares. 
. ts Hacienda and St. Marys studen . d like to Welcome home. Notre Dame south Bend again and waul in is pleased to see you ~ac~~~t meal deals and refreshments . d you that for t e 
remm h me to Hacienda. 

town. come o 
Mon -Our famous $2 95 
Wet Burrito (smaller) ...... .. .. . 
1\Jes _Choice of any . Burrito eombo_with nee $2.95 and soup or ch1 1 ......··....··..· 
Wed. -Soft Shell Beef Taco $2.95 with rice and beans ...·..·...... 
Thurs. _Beef Enchilada 
$2.95

with rice and beans ............ 
Fri. -Seafood Enchilada .$2.95 with rice and beans ............ 
. I ded * And for those o 
e always me u · nts FREE chips ·n sauce ar eat daily speCials on refreshm_e__· ---=-:::-;-:-__.-­forget we also have gr ­
south Bend  
Grape  Mishawaka. Rd at Indian Rtdge. 277-1318  Plaz.a  Scottsdale Mall 291-2566  
US 33 at 100 Centerl_______·_·_:25:9=·=85~4~1~~~~: 1:--·~o~ 

n~e--'n:or~ae:rs_o_nly:..11 
. f you over 21 . don t 
~o{{'.e to Hacie 

lf:'~~~q
(,.P.M • _. 
..,H~~aMEXCICAN.IREI1ES1AUMN1da 
· QlH~Cienda MeXIcan flesta-J·!cts ··1992 



-------------------------~ 
-

Today 
Wednesday, September 2, 1992 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



If you missed our booth at Activities Night, stop by our office or call-239­7471 to join The Observer staffl 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
rt-~. St..C.IW<> ~~ 115 ll.OI H~OOG\-\ lt> I=R.'{ f...~ t.GG 00 ll{t: S\O'i:.Wt<U:. . 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Asner and 48 Alters. as a bill Begley 50 Consumed
1 Stnpl1ng 25 Personnel 51 S1gma preceder
6 JUdiCIOUS d1rector s 52 Home of some 10 Follower of aCtiVIty Bulldogs
garage or wh1te 29 W1thered 59 Blackthorn 
14 Partner of 31 Express1ons of so Racedk1ck1ng 
del1ght or regret 
.Ji1_Furze15 Bose ­

34 Soon­63 Kett of the 

16 Washmgton s 35 Concern of a com1cs bills 
CPA 

64 Watched 17 Baffling 
37 Stang 65 Tanks. etcquest1on 39 Home of some 66 Balsa e g18 Damn Bulldogs 67 Some votes 

Yanl<ees roie 42 PreviOuS 68 r,,je types
19 Opt,cal· 43 Okla c1t;·
1nstrument part 44 Jetty
20 Home of some DOWN Bulldogs 45 J F K once 1 P1ne secretion
23 Linkletter 46 Med1c1nal plant 2 Drudge or trudge 3 Get up
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
4 Burl ol songdom 5 Kmd ol 
shepherd 6 Separate 7 Very tong t1me 8 Strong wmd 9 Pencil part 
10 Flies alone 11 Once aga1n 12 Mus1cal Horne 13 Snaky letter 21 Church 
mstrument 
--=+;..:+:,:+.::+=,:-H~=+::;-~ 22 Concepts 25 Angel1c 1nstruments 
BILL WATIERSON 
0<'\0N, l'lL REI 
It<; \-\OTffiR. 00 
ll-\t. C~R 'i~S\-1 ! 

To the horror of the lifeboat's other members, Madonna loses her balance and falls on her face. 
CAMPUS 
Wednesday 

9 a.m. • 3:30 p.m. "Dirty Book Sale." Concourse, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by University of Notre Dame Press. 
MENU Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
"· .. Cheese lasagna Baked potato bar 
Baked redfish Chinese bar 

Country-fried steak Roast turkey 
26 Habituate 27 V1olin1sts purchase 28 "-each hie 
some rain 29 Tea cake 30 Small. 

ornamental case 31 Once more 32 Sharpened 33 Stripes-partners 36 Singer La1ne 38 Mature 40 Emulate 
Demosthenes 41 A neighbor of 
British Columbia 47 Meager 49 Henry or J.P. 50inthelead 51 Clarinet and 
oboe 52 Saxophone type 53 Oz dog 54 Onental sauce 55 Jane or Zane 56 Author Vidal 57 Lemmon's g1rl1n 
a 1963 film 58 Wet 59 Baste 62 Vocalized 
pauses 

.. 
Sports 
page 16 Wednesday, September 2,1992 
GEORGE 


DuBose suspended by NCAA
DOHRMANN 

Senior captain will sit out Northwestern, Michigan
The Jock Strip 

BY JENNY MARTEN 1-----------------~ Associate Sports Editor 
Dreams become nightmares without DuBose 
I had "The Dream" again Sunday night. That's what my roommates are calling the source of the wicked screams which awaken them at un­godly hours. 
I've tried for two weeks to sleep free from "The Dream," but it appears nightly, scaring me to tears, and putting my roommates on the verge of murder. 
It invades my mind when I'm sleeping, and engulfs my thoughts when I'm awake. I have denied it vehemently, but I now believe my initial thoughts on the reason for my wicked nightmares. 
I have DuBose Syndrome. 
This fairly new disease in the science community can be described as: A disease resulting from the obsession with the Demetrius DuBose situation. May cause nervousness, sweating, and hallucination. 
I know I'm not the only Irish fan suffering from this plaque, and for those yet to be inflicted, prepare yourself for "The Dream." 
It starts with a picture of Notre Dame Stadium, on a clear September Saturday. The Michigan Wolverines are taking the field, looking so helpless against our boys from under the Dome. The helmets are shining, the band is playing, and Lou looks taller. 
The Wolverines are on offense, and as usual, their first play is a run. Just as QB Elvis Grbac hands of to running back Ricky Powers, the horror begins. 
Powers suddenly increases to tens times the size of the Irish defenders. He barrels through the line, squashing blue jersey's as he goes. Upon reaching the defensive backfield, he viciously swats the Irish secondary aside like flies. 
The dream then shifts to the sidelines, where DuBose stands chained, looking helpless as Powers runs roughshod over the defense. 
It never goes any further. I awake at this point, jump from my bed, and fall to my knee's screaming. I have sworn that it could never be true, but the news released from the NCAA late last night bring this horror closer to reality. 
Although sportswriters are never supposed to take things for granted, I am allowing myself that liberty for the Northwestern game. With or without DuBose we will win by a blowout on Saturday. 
Losing DuBose for Northwestern is like Cheers without Paul. It just doesn't matter. The absence of DuBose for the Michigan contest is like Cheers minus Norm. It will have a major effect on the ratings. 
The Wolverine backfield is considered by most experts to be the finest in the country. The combination of Powers, Tyrone Wheatley, and Jesse Johnson is enough to give defensive 

coordinators  (and  Irish  fans)  
nightmares. My case  is  a  perfect  
example.  

The worst defense in Notre Dame 
see DREAM/page 13 

'=iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.:. 
•
INSIDE SPORTS 
Ending speculation about the fate of Notre Dame senior Demetrius DuBose, the NCAA announced late yesterday afternoon that it has suspended DuBose for the first two games of the season. 
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz has accepted the NCAA's ruling. 
"I really don't have a strong reaction either way. I didn't go into it with any preconceived notions about what would happen," said Holtz. "Notre Dame has accepted the decision and I accept the decision." 
The University was notified by phone Tuesday afternoon that the NCAA had reached a decision about DuBose's rela­tionship with Grant and Rose Courtney of Seattle, Wash. and the nature of a $600 loan and other benefits. The NCAA's of­ficial response is expected today. 
According to Notre Dame athletic director Dick Rosenthal, DuBose was open about his relationship with the Courtney's. 
"Demetrius has worked closely with the NCAA since information regarding him first came to light, and the University has cooperated throughout the process. 
There was never any intent on the part of Demetrius to break NCAA rules or jeopardize his own eligibility and we're proud of him for his complete cooperation and honesty in getting the matter resolved. The NCAA indicated to us it was impressed with his spirit of openness and honesty throughout the process," said Rosenthal. 
Holtz was pleased with the way DuBose handed the situation. 
"He was very honest and forthright. He didn't think he had done anything wrong," said Holtz. 
The NCAA's decision will prevent DuBose from playing against Northwestern and Michigan. With sophomore linebacker Justin Goheen out with an ankle injury, much of the defensive responsibility will fall on the shoulders of junior linebacker Pete Bereich. 

!iiir;;;ti;-;t;J;;;Qh;M;;;;;;---__.__.:;] do that." and May each had three kills, 
After Notre Dame pounced, while Peters added four. Ball State bounced back to Game three saw Ball State make the first game interest­rebound to win a see-saw ing. The Cardinals cut the battle. After seven ties and 
lead to 9-6 before Jessica seven lead changes, the Fiebelkorn served four Cardinals scored three
.,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,:,::':::'::::':.:'''''::<:::,,:::::':'''A 
straight points to take control ''~l~~·t!!r'~~··~~~,R~~i!~~~,''[:'.\.::..•.:••t::j.='~l straight points for the Irish to at 12-10. Vanessa Papaleo
I'•:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~! put the game away. Brown
L expected Ball State to stay had 5 of her team-high 12 

An NCAA ruling will force senior captain Demetrius DuBose to watch the first two games of 
the season from the sidelines. 
"Any time you lose an athlete, it has an effect. We didn't know what the decision would be when we started the year," said Holtz. "Instead of working Demetrius (at practice), we'll work Bereich." 
The situation came into public scrutiny 
The Observer/E.G. Bailey 

at the end of August when the Los Angeles Times reported that DuBose had received a $5000 loan from the Courtney's. According to NCAA findings, the amount of the loan was only $600 
see DUBOSE/page12 

Notre Dame volleyball storms to a win over Ball State in season opener 
BY DAN PIER close, even after her team's Sports Writer quick start. "I really felt like Ball State 
The Notre Dame women's was just nervous and they volleyball team was eager to were making a lot of get out to a quick start this unforced errors," Brown season. observed. "I anticipated that 
The Irish did that and then they would come back and some, storming to a 9-1 lead play better, and they did." in game one and never Despite losing, Ball State looking back. racked up 16 kills to Notre 
They went on to defeat Ball Dame's 10 in the game. State 15-9, 15-7, 12-15, 15-3 Senior captain Alycia Turner last night at the Joyce ACC. led the Irish with 4. Head coach Debbie Brown Impressive blocking by was pleased with her team's Cynthia May and Christy start, but acknowledged that Peters led the Irish attack in it was only a start. game two. Each tallied one 
"I think that it was solo block and the pair definitely a good opener for combined on three block kills us," Brown said, "but by no to help build an 11-4 lead. A 
balanced offensive attackmeans did we play perfect. 
We have some things to work also contributed to the on, and we have the time to victory. Turner, Fiebelkorn, kills for the Cardinals in game 3. Molly Stark added 6 kills off the bench for the Irish. Brown attributed the loss to a new Notre Dame lineup and a Ball State resurgence. 
"We had a little different lineup on the floor, so the chemistry was a little different for us," Brown commented. "But, basically, they just outplayed us. We didn't play with very much emotion. We could have been a little more focused and determined to finish out the match." 
Notre Dame was just that in game four, dominating the Cardinals throughout. Janelle Karlan served five straight points to put the Irish ahead 7-2. After Ball State made several substitutions, the Irish cruised to an easy win. Brown was pleased to see her team put an exclamation mark on the victory. 
"It was a real strong positive to see us play that way in the fourth game," 
see IRISH/page 13 











