


I 6 4 2 · I 9 9 2 

SESQUICENTENNIAL 


VOL. XXIV NO. 11 0 
· 



If stone could speak 
These statues outside of O'Shaughnessy Hall have seen a lot of football and baseball games the past few days as students have enjoyed the weather with a game on the quad. 

Beel·er's parents sue bus company 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­The parents of a University of Notre Dame swim team mem­ber killed in January in bus crash filed a wrongful death lawsuit Thursday against the bus company and driver. 
Gordon and Kathy Beeler of Granger filed the lawsuit in .St. Joseph Circuit Court on behalf of their daughter, Margaret "Meghan" Beeler. 
Miss Beeler, 19, was one of two students killed Jan. 24 when the private bus transport­ing the swim team home from a meet at Northwestern Univer­sity went out of control on the Indiana Toll Road near South Bend during a snowstorm. The suit alleges that United Limo Inc. and bus driver Howard Dixon were negligent in the crash. Dixon was driving at an excessive rate of speed for the icy conditions at 65 miles per hour, the suit claims. 
The suit also charges that Dixon was unable to slow down while changing lanes, causing the bus to slide off the road, rotate about 180 degrees and flip upside down into a ravine. 
Colleen Hipp, 19, of St. Louis also was killed in the crash. Another swim team member, Haley Scott, 18, of Phoenix, suiTered severe injuries. 
The lawsuit seeks unspecified damages for lost love and af­fection, as well as funeral, burial and administration ex­penses. 
No charges have been filed from the crash, but the St. Joseph County grand jury is scheduled to review the case later this month. 
An investigation into the crash found no mechanical problems with the bus, officials said. 

Underground gay group files for recognition 
By JULIE BARRETT 
News Writer 
In what may be viewed by the Notre Dame administration as a bold move, The Gays and Les­bians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC) registered yesterday to be officially recog­nized as a student group by the University. 
GLND/SMC "realizes that we could help more students if we could sponsor lectures, have meeting space in LaFortune, a telephone line, be able to hang posters up with educational in­formation and be able to adver­tise in The Observer without a 

Farmer's Senate victory stands despite charges 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL 
News Writer 
Tyler Farmer's victory in the District 1 (South Quad) Student Senate election will stand even though he was found guilty of two counts of campaign viola­tions, according to a ruling re­leased by the election ethics committee of the judicial board. 
In a hearing held Wednesday, the committee reviewed allega­tions made against Farmer by his opponent, Alumni Hall ju­nior Dave Certo. Certo charged Farmer, a Morrissey Hall freshman, with violating several of the campaign regulations listed in the Bylaws to the Undergraduate Constitution. 
The committee found that Farmer had violated the Bylaws by posting three of his cam­paign posters over Certo's posters on bulletin boards lo­cated in Alumni Hall. It also found Farmer guilty of posting two posters in Morrissey Hall that violated the 11" by 17'' size limit stated in the Bylaws. 
However, the committee ac­quitted Farmer of charges that he included "ethically question­able messages" on some of his posters and of the charge that he had been campaigning in 
,•'. 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
University censor-in other and is, therefore, unable to words, be able to do what other comment on the issue, accord­student groups do," said ing to Student Affairs Vice Michael Yore, a former co-chair President Patty O'Hara and As­for the group. sistant Vice President Father 
The group's move for recog­Peter Rocca. nition now has been motivated University President Father by the recent attention gay and Edward Malloy could not be lesbian issues have received reached for this story. through the Safe Haven and Yore said that members of Burtchaell issues this school the GLND/SMC have been meet­year, according to Yore. Be­ing with the administration for cause these issues are "alive too long without any real re­enough in people's minds," Yore sults, and that it is time to "take asserts that the time is now to the procedure out of the back try to effect change. rooms of the administration and 
Student Affairs has not re­into the public." viewed the group's letter and In order for the group to be registration form at this point officially recognized by the Uni­versity, the organization must not "encourage or participate in any activity which contravenes the mission of the University, or the moral teachings of the Catholic Church." 

According to Yore, the GLND!SMC does not contravene the University's mission or Catholic teaching. 
GLND/SMC "is set up to ad­dress issues that surround a person's realization that he or she has a lesbian or gay orien­tation," Yore said. "There's nothing in Catholic teaching which says 'You can't do that."' 
The Holy Cross Order, which guides the University's policies 
Carroll Hall after the desig­nated campaigning period ended at midnight on Monday, March 2. 
For his two convictions, Farmer was assessed a fine of $30, which will be donated to an Alumni Hall charity accept­able to Certo and the commit­tee. 
The maximum penalty for such violations is forfeiture of candidacy. However, judicial board chairperson Ellen Lewis said the committee found Farmer's violations to be "limited" and "not of malicious intent," and thus chose not to overturn the the election·reslilt. 
"The committee found my campaign in general to be ethi­cal and informative to the stu­dents of this university," Farmer said. · 
Certo, the incumbent senator for District 1, said he would not comment on the case until he read the committee's written opinion. 
The ethics committee held a similar hearing last night con­cerning AI Nicgorski's challenge 

The Observer/Kristina Roderick 
of Tim Callahan's victory in the 
Did a hurricane hit? 
District 3 (North Quad) senate run-off. A decision on that case 

Pasquerilla East Freshman Buffy Morris and Rita Hajjar don't
is expected to be released 
normally live in this clutter-they're just packing for spring break. 
today. 


and procedures, represents the underlying problem that the group faces in being recognized by the Administration. The Order refuses to deal with the issue of homosexuality, Yore said. 
"Besides the mistaken im­pression that gay or lesbian orientation is unacceptable in Catholic teaching, the biggest roadblock in the way of getting GLND/SMC recognized is the Holy Cross Order," Yore said. 
Officers of the group signed a letter stating that the Order still maintains that it ordains no homosexuals, even though an 
see GAYS I page 6 

NO vehicles switch to natural gas 
By TRAVIS SMITH 
News Writer 
Notre Dame Transportation Services are converting six of their vehicles from liquid gas to natural gas as a trial program. In charge of the conversion are Marty Ogren of Notre Dame vehicle maintenance and Northern Indiana Public Service Corporation, NIPSCO. · 
As of now, three of the six cars have been converted, but none are in use yet. According to Ogren, "We have a target date of April 2 to have all the vehicles in use." 
The vehicles being converted include one campus security car, one landscaping truck, one laundry truck, two preventive maintenance trucks, and one building services truck 
"We arc trying out natural gas as an alternative fuel be­cause of our concern for air quality," said Ogren. 
Although natural gas does not eliminate emission, it does burn much cleaner than liquid gas. In addition, natural gas is much cheaper. While a gallon of 
see GAS I page 6 

J 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Too much 


research can be a bad thing 
It's hard for a reporter to not be critical, even of a 
place like Notre Dame. 
Despite its greatness, this 
University has set Kelley Tuthill 
standards so high for itself Editor-in-Chief 
that it is difficult not to get --"=="'-~~~'­
disillusioned every once in a while. 
In the past four years, the focus of this 

University has changed dramatically. It 
appears that the commitment to 
undergraduate education is being passed up 
for the more glamorous goal of becoming a 
National Catholic Research University. 
Who's goal is this anyway and how realistic 

is it? 
At a Board of Trustees meeting last month, 

a group of trustees met with students, 
including myself, to discuss a report we had 
done on the future of undergraduate 
education at Notre Dame. Among the trustees 
assembled, there didn't seem to be a clear 
consensus on the desirability of becoming a 
National Catholic Research University. 
Many of the trustees questioned whether 

the goal of becoming a "research" institution 
was feasible. Most students and trustees 
agreed that if excellence in Catholic 
undergraduate education had to be sacrificed, 
the goals of the University were unjustified. 
If some trustees seem unconvinced about 
the whether Notre Dame should aim to be a 
National Catholic Research Institution, one 
wonders who made this our goal in the first 
place? 
University President Father Edward Malloy 

and Provost Timothy O'Meara seem pretty 
convinced that Notre Dame is heading the 
right direction. Where's the check in this 
system? Can two men change the direction of · a 150-year-old University? 
Most will agree that improving the graduate 

programs is a good thing. Also agreed upon is 
the idea that a strong research component is 
important to gaining recognition among 
universities in America. 
The question remains: Must undergraduate 
education be Notre Dame's sacrificial lamb? 
One trustee suggested that unparalleled 
excellence in Catholic undergraduate 
education is Notre Dame's strongest asset. Yet 
becoming a National Catholic Research 
University is costly-both in terms of money 
and resources. 
Wouldn't it make more sense for Notre 
Dame to keep in tact (and improve) its 
greatest selling point? Perhaps the University 
could choose to focus on a few research areas 
and set more realistic goals for itself. 
Notre Dame must not forgo its mission to 

educate young people in favor of gaining a 
better national reputation. It's time for the 
students, faculty, administration, alumni and, 
perhaps most of all, trustees to stop and think 
about the future of undergraduate education. 
It's frightening to think that the alumni of 
the class of 1992 might not think Notre Dame 
worthy of providing an undergraduate 
education for their children. 
Friday's Staff: 

Production  Etc.  
Peggy Crooks  Pat Moran  
Bryan Nowicki  Shonda Wilson  
News  Photography  
Pete Loftus  Kristina Rodenek  
Sports  Jon Novak  
Jason Kelly  Systems  
Lab Tech  Harry Zembillas  
Macy Hueckel  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Washington. D.C. 56 45 Yuma 61 36 
Pressure 
H L ~ ~ fTII EZl !;21 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW 


TODAY 1~T AGLANCE WORLD Blacks may hold top posts 
• JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -The white government supports a proposal to appoint blacks to top 
Friday, March 6,1992 
FOR!CAIT: 
Mostly cloudy today with a 40 percent chance of showers in the afternoon. High in the middle 40s and low around 40. 
TEMPERATURES: 

ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Lordagan and Ardal and 10 nearby villages, IRNA said. 
NATIONAL Food stamps promised to dead man 
government posts for the first time in South Afriea's history, creating an interim leadership to oversee the end of apartheid. But the Afrilcan National Congress, the country's main black opposition group, said today that it may not want to serve in the existing Cabinet. ANC officials want an interim 

government council separate from the Cabinet. The Star newspaper reported today that ANC President Nelson Mandela and the head of the rival Inkatha Freedom Party, Mangosuthu Buthelezi, were strong candidates for ministerial positions. 


Iranian quak:e kills six 
• NICOSIA, Cyprus -Two earthquakes jolted northwestern Iran today after a quake a day earlier killed at least six people and injured more than 50 in the southwest, the country's official news agency said. The Islamic Republlic News Agency said both of today's quakes registe1·ed 4.6 on the Richter scale and were centered near the Turkish border about 435 miles northwest of Tehran. No injuries or damage were re­ported. One quake rocked the city of Khvoy and the next shook the city of Tabriz, capital of Iran's Azerbaijan province. A qUiake Wednesday, measuring 4.9 on the Richter scale, destroyed 291 homes in the towns of 


OF INTEREST 
•student government applications for next year are due today. Brin1~ them to the student government office, 2nd floor LaFortune. If you have any questions, call 239­7668. 

City Atlanta Bangkok Boston Brisbane Caracas Chicago Eugene Flagstaff Helena Hong Kong 
lstarbul Juneau Knoxville london los Angeles 
Nairobi 
New York 
North Platte 
Paris 
Manila 
South Bend 
Tallahassee 
H L 65 50 95 75 
55 40 
80 66 
81 61 
36 32 
59 43 
34 23 45 28 59 57 
53 43 
33 30 55 42 45 39 
61 4 7 81 54 53 45 53 29 46 36 
91 72 
36 32 
71 38 

• GREENVILLE, S.C. -Helatives of a dead man 
received a letter saving his food stamps would be dis­continued because he died, but he can reapply if any­thing changes. AI Palanza Jr.'s. brother died about two weeks before the letter arrived from the Greenville County Department of Social Services. "Your food stamps will be stopped effective March 1992 because we received notice that you passed away. May God bless you. You may reapply if there is a change in your circumstances," the letter said. At first, Palanza said he was disgusted, but eventually found the letter funny. He called it "living proof of how screwed up the system is." 
Drunk driver hits London Bridge 
• LAKE HAVASU CITY, Ariz. -A man whose car crashed into the London Bridge was ordered to pay re­
pairs that could reach $50,000. Superior Court Judge Steven Conn also fined Walter Beck $430 and ordered him to undergo periodic alcohol testing. Beck, 52, pleaded guilty to misdemeanor drunken driving last Friday in Maricopa County Superior Court. The New Year's Eve crash knocked out a 41-foot section of railing on the transplanted British landmark, destroying 31 granite balusters that hold up the rail. Mayor Charles Langerveld estimated repairs could reach $50,000. "London Bridge isn't falling down any more," he said. "It's just getting a facelift." 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1806: Poet Elizabeth Barrett Browning was born in Durham, England. 

• 
In 1967: 25 years ago, the daughter of Josef Stalin, Svetlana Alliluyeva, appeared at the U.S. embassy in India and announced her intention to defect to the West. 

• 
In 1981: Walter Cronkite signed off for the last time as principal anchorman of "The CBS Evening News" after 19 years on the job. 

• 
In 1983: In a case that drew much notoriety, a woman in 

New Bedford, Mass., reported that she had been gang-raped atop a pool table in a tavern called Big Dan's. 

• 
In 1982: Author-philosopher Ayn Rand died in New York at age 77. 


·.-. 



ND to prohibit smoking in all buildings 
Friday, March 6, 1992 
Students in trouble with federal taxes 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. (AP)­The government is worried that college students may be cheat­ing-on their taxes. 
Any portion of a scholarship applied to room and board or travel has been taxable since 1987, assuming the recipient already earns ab.ove a certain minimum. 
"There is a concern that many taxpayers don't know the room and board portion of the scholarship is taxable income," said Gail Ellis, a spokeswoman for the Internal Revenue Ser­vice. 
The agency last month col­lected information from Har­vard University on scholarship recipients, university officials confirmed. 
Students are indignant. 
"This is really frightening, to try to use the IRS to beat on students," said Selena Dong, legislative director of the U.S. Student Association. "Students are barely able to meet college costs and all of a sudden there's this new, tough IRS position on scholarships.· 
Special to The Observer 
The new Notre Dame smoking policy will prohibit smoking in all campus buildings, University President Father Edward Malloy announced Monday. 
The policy goes into effect Aug. 1. 
Developed by a task force of staff, faculty and students ­smokers and non-smokers alike -the policy states: "Smoking is prohibited in all buildings, stadiums and vehicles owned, leased or operated by the Uni­versity of Notre Dame." 
~-------------------------------------~~edilireelo~r~~ctoourt 
LENTEN RETREAT FOR FACULTY 
Single. and married faculty (and spouses) of all faiths are welcome. 
LOCATION: Andre Hall, Holy Cross College, on 
N. Michigan opposite WNDU. Single and double rooms. 
COST: $25 per person, meals included. 
RESERVATIONS: By Thursday, March 19 to 239-5242 or inquire of John Gerber at




IIMI 
239-8606. 
(?MPU5
MINISTRY 
The Observer 
The Observer/Jon Novak 
Is the circus coming to town? 
While other students took advantage of the weather to play common sports like football or baseball, Pasquerilla East freshman Mary Dwyer decided to practice her juggling skills. 


20 -21 March 1992 
8:00 pm Friday -9:00 pm Saturday 
Offered by: David Burrell, C.S.C. and John Gerber, C. S.C. 
A time of quiet and personal reflection, the retreat will include opportunity for shared reflection. Presentations will focus on the Sunday scripture readings of Lent. 
The policy includes five possi­ble exceptions to the rule. How­ever, the rights of non-smokers to a smoke-free environment will prevail in all disputes. 
After reviewing concerns over the health hazards of smoking and secondhand smoke, Malloy established the task force last year to study the subject. The group gathered facts and opin­ions from community members and reviewed smoking policies in the business world as well as at other colleges and universi­ties. 
The task force's recommen­dations have been reviewed and approved by the officers of the University and its environmen­tal issues committee. 
The University over the next several months will offer pro­grains to assist campus com­munity members in adapting to the new policy. 



Have a Great Break 
cases which "seem to indicate that the old time religion of the fo"irst Amendment is in full force." 
In the first case, John Doe vs. the University of Michigan, the University apparently "had a fairly conventional speech pro­posed that made punishable various types of offenses in speech." Judge Abrahm Cone, whom Boggs described as "quite liberal," struck down the ;;peech, a decision which the Jniversity of Michigan did not 1ppeal. 
The second of the three cases 
.hat Boggs spoke on was re­
lorted in October 1991 and en­
Hied the Board of Regions of 


r:---------,
• &.ly 4* 5eSSions at the regular I I price and get 4 FREE • &ly 5 I I and get 5 FREE • &ly 6 and I I Get 6 FREE GET THE IDEA7 I
L-------------1 
,.., ,... .............. page3 

Local judge lectures on hate speech 
By CHRIS WERLING News Writer 
A veteran of the radical free speech movement on college campuses of the 1960s and current Appeals Court Judge cautioned against hate speech codes in a lecture at Notre Dame Thursday. 
Judge Boggs of the Sixth Cir­cuit Court of Appeals gave a lecture titled "Can or Should the Government Forbid Some­one from Speech that is Alleged to be Hate Speech?" sponsored by the Federalist Society at the NO Law School. 
Boggs drew upon his experi­ence during the free speech movement as he "grew up intel­lectually in college in the sixties when student radicalism began with the Free Speech movement at Berkeley, when the notion of free speech of paramount value was very widely held." Boggs attended Harvard University and continued his education at the University of Chicago Law School. 
As Boggs spoke on distin­guishing between types of speech and what should and should not he considered law­ful, he drew on actual law re­views and the Fighting Words Doctrine, which says that "words are distinguished by the kinds of speech." These law re­views suggested "the notion that there are ways to combat or suppress a particular kind of speech using one or another First Amendment doctrines," said Boggs. 
Boggs admitted the difficulty in differentiating between law­ful and unlawful speech and said, "basi.cally, in my view those distinctions are not suc­cessful." 
While arguing what the gov­ernment should or should not do in the judiciary sense, Boggs the University of Wisconsin vs. the U.S. district post. According to Boggs, in this case, "the newspaper of the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee had printed various newspaper ar­ticles which were found offen­sive to some." 

Boggs said the U.S. district court replied to these articles in a manner that "struck it down and specifically focused on the fact that the rules clearly reached beyond the narrow confines of the Fighting Words doctrine." 
The final of the three cases which Boggs focused on was the Leaven vs. 1-Iarrels case. This case involved Michael Leavens, a white professor, who "has become quite controversial for speeches and articles written" that lacked racial eloquence. 
In the Leaven case, "the uni­versity did nothing while bear­ing disruption in his (Leavens') classroom" while "marching in and marching out and shout­ing" as other forms of disrup­tion took place. The district court ruled similarly in this case as in the other cases that his "constitutional rights were found to be violated." 
Boggs also applied the con­troversy of First Amendment rulings to a current Supreme Court case entitled RAY vs. St. Paul, Minnesota, which Boggs said should "certainly be de­cided by the time the court ad­journs at the end of the year." 
The Minnesota case involves an incident where, "people 
went onto the lawn of a black  
family and burned a cross on  
their-lawn," said Boggs. He  
then gave the result of the trial  
explaining that the "Minnesota  
Supreme Court agreed to  
statutes that this was unconsti­ 
tutional and said that it could  
be narrowed to apply only to  
Fighting Words," which then resulted in an appeal since it was not agreed upon that these actions were only fighting words.  l 1  
Regarding the Minnesota  ~  
case, Boggs said that "my sus­picion is that the court will not come down with a ringing deci­sion in either direction."  l  
Boggs finally ended by sug­ 
gesting three ways of his own to  
better the controversy of First  
Amendment rulings. His first  
suggestion was that in a  
person's private action he or  
she "should not be denounced,  
they should not be opposed by  
ostracism" or be defamed in  
any way.  
Boggs followed with his sec­ 
ond suggestion that "action  
which would constitute other  
crimes" should and "can be  
punished under those statutes  
or contents of the crime."  
The third and final suggestion  
of Boggs was "a content neutral  
application of servility" which  
meant that rulings passed in  
any type of community would  
be passed for all groups and no  
group would remain exclusive  
oul<>ide of the ruling.  
Boggs concluded that  
"obviously the hate speech situ­ 
ation runs through a myriad of  
specifics."  
Reduce  
Reuse  
Recycle- 
Please!!!!!!!!!!  

The Observer 

page 4 Friday, March 6, 1992 
Kerrey, broke, drops out of presidential race 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Ne­braska Sen. Bob Kerrey dropped out of the Democratic presidential race today after a string of setbacks, telling a roomful of cheering supporters and Senate colleagues, "we ran out of gas." 
In a wistful news conference, Kerrey said he was ending his once promising candidacy "with regret but with great pride ... this is no retreat and this is no surrender." 
"While we have plenty of po­tential and plenty of enthusi­asm, unfortunately we do not have plenty of money," said Kerrey, whose campaign is about $1 million in debt. 

His announcement left four major contenders still standing as the Democratic race heads into crucial primaries in the South and industrial states over the next two weeks: Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton, former Massachusetts Sen. Paul Tsongas, Iowa Sen. Tom Harkin and former California Gov. Jerry Brown. 
Kerrey endorsed none of them, but said he would sup­port any of them in the fall campaign. He said President Bush is "the only unelectahle candidate." 
That seemed a bouquet tossed in the direction of Clinton. Kerrey said last week in Georgia that questions about Clinton's use of a Vietnam era draft deferment would make him ripe as a "soft peanut" for Bush in the fall. Today, he said he would "campaign feverishly" to help elect the Arkansas gov­ernor if Clinton is the nominee. 
In his valedictory address, Kerrey offered a reprise of the themes he stressed in his cam­paign: "American leaders need to wake up," he said, and rec­ognize the need to treat chil­dren better, to provide national health insurance and address other concerns. 
Kerrey was flying home to Nebraska later in the day for a campaign-style rally meant to bolster his standing in his home state, where his Senate term expires in 1994. 
He became the second dropout in the race. Virginia Gov. L. Douglas Wilder ran briefly, but folded his campaign before the first ballots were cast. 
On paper, Kerrey was an at­tractive candidate, a wounded Vietnam veteran, a popular former governor of Neb.raska serving his first Senate term. He launched his quest for the White House saying he wanted to become the leader for a new generation of Americans, and made national health insurance the centerpiece of his cam­paign. 
But except for a victory in South Dakota's primary on Feb. 25, he fizzled everywhere. lie came in a weak third in New I lam pshire 's first-in-the-nation primary, and came away from last Tuesday's eight primaries and caucuses in debt and with­out a single victory to his credit. 
"After Tuesday I felt like the Jamaican bobsled team," he 
Buchanan's pen hau11ts his bid 

WASHINGTON (AP) -From his senior year in college, Patrick Buchanan set his sights on being a hell-raising political columnist. lie made it, with spectacular success. Now, as a presidential candidate, he is paying the price. 
In interview after interview 

since he entered the race in De­
cember, and in some of Presi­
dent Bush's commercials, 
Buchanan has been badgered 
about comments he made in 
print and in his television com­
mentaries. 
Comments about AIDS being nature's "awful retribution" on homosexuals. About women being "less equipped psycholog­ically" than men for the work­place. About Adolf llitler being a "soldier's soldier." 
Buchanan dismisses all the hullabaloo as irrelevant. "I was a good commentator, and I wrote good columns, and that's why I'm being quoted," he said in a recent CNN interview. 
Buchanan's sledgehammer rhetoric is in the mold of the writer who may have started him on his journalistic path. He was nine when his father first introduced him to the works of Westbrook Pegler. 
Pegler, a popular conservative columnist of the '40s and '50s, called President Franklin Hooscvelt Old Mooscjaw. He called Eleanor Roosevelt La Boca Grande, which is Spanish for the big mouth. lie once called Secretary of the Interior Harold L. Ickes a "penny-ante moocher" and a "cheap 
sponger" for checking in at 
Bethesda Naval Hospital when 
he was sick. 
In short, Pegler's approach to political commentary was summed up in words Buchanan has quoted with approval: "Stand flat on your feet and swing for the belly." 
And when Buchanan decided 
in his senior year at George­
town University to study jour­
nalism, he says the height of his 
ambition was to follow in Pe­
gler's footsteps. 
He started as an anonymous editorial writer for the St. Louis Globe-Democrat, then worked for Richard Nixon and then became a bylined columnist. 
He wrote that bombings of abortion clinics "have tem­porarily enabled the principal victimizers in American society -doctors making a hundred grand a year tearing apart and disposing of the remains of un­born children -to posture as victims for an indulgent press." 
Discussing AIDS, he wrote, "One day, those 'progressive' politicians and Health and Hu­man Services bureaucrats, whn entertained and indulged every clamorous demand of the Gay Bights Movement in the hal­lowed name of 'civil rights,' are going to have much to answer for from the early years of this dread epidemic." 
Again, he wrote, "The poor homosexuals. They have de­clared war on nature, and now nature is exacting an awful re­tribution." 
In a 1983 column that has 
been targeted in a Bush com­
mercial, he said women volun­
tarily leave the job market 
much more often than men and 
added, "Less equipped psycho­
logically to 'stay the course' in 
the brawling arenas of busi­
ness, commerce, industry and 
the professions, women are 
physically unequipped to com­
pete in the worlds of athletics 
and arms." 
During the buildup to the Gulf War, he objected to Bush's likening of Saddam Hussein to Hitler, writing that "whatever may be said of Hitler, he was a world class warlord" and Sad­dam is not. In a 197 4 column, he had written, "Though Hitler was indeed racist and anti­Semitic to the core ... he was also an individual of great courage, a soldier's soldier in the Great War, a political or­ganizer of the first rank, a leader steeped in the history of Europe, who possessed orator­ical powers that could awe even those who despised him." 
While the Beagan administra­tion negotiated arms control agreements, he asked, "When is the United States going to break free of this prison called arms control'?" and argued that "America's security docs not lie in agreements co-signed by our mortal enemies." 
He even took aim at fellow journalists, writing during Democrat Walter Mondale's campaign for the presidency in 1980. 

quipped. "We had a lot of spirit but unfortunately we didn't get a lot of medals." 
He said he caught a few bad breaks along the way, conceded that a few were self-inflicted, but said that even so, "I con­sider myself the luckiest man in the world." 
Kerrey gave way in good hu­mor -joking that he could re­main in the Senate, but a Ne­braska newspaper reporter who covered his national travels would have to go home and "cover county commissioners 
now." 

lie made clear he is ready to resume the political wars in the Senate. "For me the fight is simply going to move on to new al"enas," he said. 
Kerrey's friends counseled him in recent days to think about his political future, said a senior adviser who spoke only on condition he not be identi­fied. The general tone was that "things look too bleak to risk the future by going on," the ad­viser said. 
Democrats had long consid­ered Kerrey prime presidential material. He won a Medal of Honor in Vietnam and lost part of his leg there. He went on to build a successful restaurant business. He unseated a Hepub­lican governor on his first try for office, and unseated a Re­publican senator on his second. No small part of his appeal was that he had dated actress Debra Winger. 
But Kerrey never caught on with voters, for a combination of reasons. 
lie was off to a rocky start after open microphones picked up a joke he told another can­didate about lesbians, and the Labor Department cited his restaurant chain for numerous child-labor violations. 
And his outspokenness, which can be disarming, was discon­certing in a presidential cam­paign. lie conceded one of his campaign ads had backf'ired and rarely tried to put a good race on a bad showing. lie talked openly of new taxes. 

House rubber check scandal explodes 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The 
House ethics committee, in a 
move that sent shivers 
through the ranks of 
Congress, Thursday proposed 
publicly disclosing the names 
or 24 lawmakers who 
repeatedly wrote bad checks 
on their House bank accounts. 
The committee, which re­leased no names, will ask the full House to approve the pro­posal, giving nervous members a direct say in how many of their number face a potentially disastrous election issue. 
The disclosure would include 19 current and five former members of Congress. 
Not even the 14 ethics com­mittee members know who the major abusers are, because the information compiled by the General Accounting Office used codes to identify the account holders. 
The committee proposal would name only repeated and routine abusers. Some House members already have called for disclosure of all members who wrote bad checks. 
House sources have said about 300 members may have written at least one overdraft at the bank, which was closed late last year because of the check scandal. 
The committee would pri­vately notify the worst abusers that they faced public disclosure so they could plead their cases before any list became public. 
Hep. Matthew McHugh, D­N.Y., acting chairman of the ethics committee for the investigation, said the panel supported the proposal on a 10~4 vote. 
McHugh, who also headed the panel's investigating subcom­mittee, said there will be "at least one other alternative, maybe more'' when the committee plan goes to the House floor next week. 
The members' bank, a prized perk for more than a century, didn't charge a financial penalty to lawmakers who wrote rubber checks. That amounted to interest free loans. 
It's unlikely that any House decision short of full disclosure will be the final word. Members will be under pressure from the media, political opponents and constituents to reveal how many bad checks they wrote. 
The ethics committee, offi­cially the Committee on Stan­dards of Official Conduct, has that information and members said it would be provided to any member who asked. 

Pro-Stalinists rally on an1niversary 
MOSCOW (AP) -"Comrade 

Stalin was right!" proclaimed a 
hand-written sign propped up 
ncar Hed Square where a small 
crowd gathered Thursday to 
commemorate the 39th an­
niversary of the Soviet dictator's 
death. 
For many, the name Josef Stalin is synonymous with bru­tality and he is widely blamed for killing millions of his own people. But for the roughly 200 hard-liners who gathered to lay flowers at his Kremlin grave, Stalin was the greatest, kindest and smartest politician of all time. 
"Stalin was a very good man. Nobody in the entire world is better than Stalin was," Var­vara Pilishvili, a retired history teacher, said quietly as she clutched a bouquet of colored tulips. "I am a Stalinist, and I will d ic a Stalinist." 
Stalin, a native Georgian, ruled with an iron hand from shortly after Soviet founder Vladimir Lenin's death in 1924 until he himself died of a brain hemorrhage on March 5, 1953. 
Some Russians, disgruntled now with Bussian President~ Boris Yeltsin's economic re-· forms, sometimes wistfully reminisce about the Stalin era.. when freedom of speech was: forbidden but store counters were overflowing and crime was virtually non-existent. 
Some of his followers said Thursday they were unaware of Stalin's brutality. 
"Of course Stalin was a good man. He brought about order in the country," said a 35-year-old construction firm worker, Vera Magamedyova, waiting behind a police barricade to enter the Kremlin grounds. 
Only a handful of protesters were present Thursday. 
Vladimir Yermakov, a civil pilot, was surrounded by an angry crowd of hecklers who argued and laughed at him when he told how Stalin ruined his life. He said he spent his childhood in an orphanage after both of his parents died soon after being sent by Stalin to labor camps in Siberia. 
"I was a year old when my father was arrested in 1949. He fought in the civil war, World War I and World War II," Yermakov said. "My father wasn't guilty of anything, Stalin just needed people to work in the camps. What sin coufd a person who suffered through three wars commit?" 
But others like Pilishvili didn't believe Stalin could do any wrong. 
"It's a lie, because Stalin lived for the Soviet Union. 

COMIC BOOK CONVENTION SATURDAY, MARCH 7TH 
RAMADA INN 
52390 U.S. 33 NORTH SOUTH BEND, (1 OAM TO 4PM) BROWSE, BUY, SELL, OR TRADE COMICS ETC. 
IN PERSON PHIL ZIMELMAN WHO DRAWS THE PUNISHER 
DEALERS, 1000'S OF COMICS,ART CONTEST, GAMES, AND DOOR PRIZE DRAWINGS EVERY HOUR SURPRISE GIFTS TO THE 1ST 25 PEOPLE TO THE SHOW ADMISSION $4.00 INCLUDES ALL ACTIVITIES FOR INFORMATION: 301-292-4587 


50¢ OFF WITH THIS RD 

~--~--------~ --­
Friday, March 6, 1992 The Observer page 5 
ND alumni to broadcast educational conference 
The Observer/Kristina Roderick 
Signs of Lent 

By KATHY MASSA News Writer 
Notre Dame will be the focus of over 700 cable stations and 15 million people nationwide Sunday, in a satellite broadcast interactive educational pro­gram. 
The topic of Sunday's Alumni Continuing Education telecast, to be aired at 2 p.m., is 'raising elementary school children.' It is the second of three programs on education. In November of '91, Alumni Education began the series with a telecast about educating the preschooler. In November of this year, the edu­cational series will conclude with a program focused on the high schooler. 
Gates probes successors 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Three of six candidates to replace Po­lice Chief Daryl Gates are ac­cused of misconduct and Gates has been ordered to investigate the allegations -a move an­gering critics of the panel seek­ing his successor. 
Police Commission president Stanley Sheinbaum said his agency lacks the staff to inves­tigate the possible misconduct, so he ordered Gates to do it. 
But the American Civil Liber­ties Union said Gates shouldn't get involved. 
MI-le is biased about the entire selection process. So he should show a little grace and ask the commission to set up a special investigator," said the ACLU's Ramona Ripston. 
Sheinbaum ordered the probe after Xavier Hermosillo, chair­man of a Mexican-American group called News for America, alleged that three of six semifi­nalists had violated police pol­icy. The group also complained when two Hispanic candidates were eliminated. 
Gates wouldn't comment, a spokesman said. 
%oney 
for 

'Ere
a 
Our Spring Break Loan is back by popular demand 
(probably because it's easier than getting money from your parents!) 
• 
Only 12% APR, fixed rate 

• 
$1 00 minimum, $500 maximum loan amount 

• 
Deferred Payments 

• 
Students with good credit or no credit qualify 


No co-signer is needed. Bring in your student I.D. 
~ 
Sunday's program will include a panel of educators discussing the issue, MParenting the Elementary School Child: How to Nurture a Positive Self," in front of a live studio audience, 125 groups nationwide and over 8,000 colleges via satellite. 
Alumni clubs across the country worked with their re­spective dioceses to bring to­gether viewers from the com­munity to watch the telecasts. Groups receive the telecast free of charge in addition to educa­tional packets, an enrichment video tape and a packet for the director of each site. 
In addition to the panelists and the studio discussion, the production team will splice in video of elementary school kids and parent-teacher confer­ences. In this way, the program is aesthetically interesting and of high _production quality, ac­cording to Kathleen Sullivan, director of Alumni Continuing Education. 
"It is believed that Notre Dame is the only University in higher education ever to offer enrichment programming for alumni and their communities through satellite technology," said Sullivan. 
Teleconferencing regarding family issues began at Notre Dame in response to a state­ment by the bishops, released in January, which emphasizes "children and family first." The bottom line of these programs is "to spotlight issues where Notre 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
239-6611 • Independent of the University 
While others think only of spring break, Pasquerilla West remembers the coming of the Lenten season with this sculpture 

Dame excels, like faith and Christian marriage," according the Peter Pranica, assistant director of the NO Alumni Association. 
"Interactive conferencing of­fers many advantages. It offers practical information about important topics," said Pranica. "People feel comfortable taking programming from Notre Dame because many alumni met their spouses here," he added. 
Feedback from viewers has been phenomenal, said Sullivan and Pranica. Many have been pleasantly surprised that such great programming is offered at no charge. Alumni have praised the provocative content and high quality of production, said Sullivan 
Black pro-lifer equates abortion with 'genocide' 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 

Genocide of the human race is being committed through abortions in the United States every day, according to Delores Grier, vice-chancellor for Com­munity Relations of the Arch­diocese of New York. 
Grier, who is also founder and president of the Association of Black Catholics Against Abortion, spoke at Notre Dame Thursday on "Race Genocide Through Abortion.'' 
She said she considers abor­tion murder, that terminating a pregnancy is taking a life. 
"A baby is a human being," she said. "Our Constitution says that everyone has a right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. I believe that life be­gins at conception. A baby shouldn't have to be born to be protected." 
Grier said that the incidence of abortion is higher among minority groups, often due to lack of money, opportunity and education. 
"Seventy-four percent of free abortion clinics in this country are in black and Hispanic communities," she said. 
This is due in some areas to research-oriented hospitals and health care groups who use the aborted fetal tissue for experi-
Smoking Stinks­Please Don't Do It!! 
with Lance Dawson 
"These telecasts provide a much needed and valuable re­source for our families as they seek creative solutions to chal­lenging problems," according to a diocese in DesMoine. 
"The telecasts are a rich model of dialogic enrichment for Churches and other institu­tions in America," said Frances Forde Plude, Associate Provost at Syracuse University, an ex­pert on Catholic teleconferenc­ing. 
The program on Sunday will be broadcast from WNDU at 2 
p.m. The studio audience in­cludes local educators, but others are encouraged to at­tend. For more information, call Kathleen Sullivan at 239­6186. 
• More from Grier I page 6 
mental purposes. They find that the incidence of abortion is higher in these groups, so they establish clinics in these com­munities, she said. 
However, she said that de­spite the statistics of disadvan­taged and underprivileged mi­nority groups, these people have no excuse to "resort" to abortion in the situation of an unwanted or unplanned preg­nancy. 
"We (blacks) have a spirit that says God never gives you more than you can bear," she said. "Blacks have survived nearly everything, (including) slavery and lynchings. We can survive nine months of pregnancy." 
The United States does not value life the way other cultures have in the past, Grier said. Since other cultures have assimilated themselves into the United States, people have slowly come to accept a "culture of killing," she said. 
"Africans count the unborn as waiting to be born," she said. "But integration brings imitation." 
Grier said that the nation should, by outlawing abortion, realize that "we don't have to kill to solve our problems." 
·Thursday and Friday 
3pm-Spm 



that many are driven to drug and alcohol addictions and advised her audience to "pray for them." 
Referring to women who seek abortion as a means of sex se­lection or for reasons of fetal deformity, Grier said that they are "killing for convenience," and she fears the day when un­born life is aborted for other genetic purposes, such as unde­sirable skin or eye color. 
She advised abortion oppo­nents to support the cause through prayer, and in particu­lar, to pray peaceably in front of pro-abortion legislator's offices between the hours of nine and twelve on Saturdays. "Sooner or later, because persistence will do it, that legislator will call you in and say 'Let's talk,"' Grier said. 
She added that gaining audi­ence with a legislator is an op­portunity to remind him or her that "you, too, can be on the unemployment line" if he or she does not respect life. Grier continued by saying that life does not come from the gov­ernment and that laws "can not take away from the fact that we're tampering with God's creation." 
Grier said she objects to politicians who believe in the pro-life cause but capitulate to a pro-abortion stance for pur­
The Observer/Jon Novak
poses of political survival, citing 

Walking a thin line 
civil rights leader Jesse Jackson, who Grier said as­

A student performs an amazing act of balance on this campus
sumed a pro-abortion mentality 
fence.

when he joined "the death party of the Democrats...he had to change or not be in the party," Computers disinfect against virus 
higher than 20,000 computers -about one in 2,500 of all the personal computers in the United States -could be dam­aged if no precautions are taken. John McAfee of the Computer Virus Industry Asso­ciation estimated 5 million ma­chines may have it worldwide. 
"It has been overhyped, with­out question," said Charles Hutstein, staff researcher for the Washington, D.C.-based NCSA. "There is going to be some data lost. But for the most part, it's not a terrific problem as far as the world is concerned. 

By COLLEEN CONLEY 
News writer 
Using her ten fingers to tick 

ofT arguments against abortion, 
Delores Grier, vice chancellor 
for the archdioceses of New 
York, referred to abortion 
legislation as the beginning of 
the "hand of death." 
Speaking yesterday at the 

mock courtroom of the Law 
School, Grier, who is the 
founder and president of the 
Association of Black Catholics 
Against Abortion, labelled 
abortion a "race genocide," and 
called for prayer and the elimi­
nation of apathy to end abor­
tion's legalization. 
Defining the charge of geno­cide, Grier said abortion is like mass murder because it is the "taking of the future of black America, and also the taking of the future of white Amer­ica ... this is genocide, black or white, it's genocide-we're killing ourselves." 
Grier said that poor, black women who terminate preg­nancies are doing so because abortion "has been thrust upon them in response to their re­quest for assistance in raising a family", adding that "abortion, in my opinion, is pushing this entire society into non­existence because abortion is the beginning of the death ethic." 
Grier criticized the founder of Planned Parenthood, Margaret Sanger, for spreading the idea through "Negro Project" that black people are inferior be­cause they believe children come from God. 
According to Grier, "black people believe In the fifth com­mandment, 'Thou shalt not kill'. .. but to become acclimated, [they have] unfortunately imitated the wrong examples in society." 
Responding to the what she termed the frequent argument that poor women must seek abortions for financial reasons, Grier argued that monetary constraints are never sufficient grounds for aborting a preg­nancy. 
"My people have survived lynching, whipping, [and] bombing, and you're going to 
Gays 
continued from page 1 
internal study says that as many as· 80 percent of the Indi­ana Province is gay, and 50 percent of the rest of the Order is. Vore attested that this in­formation was confirmed by three "well-placed members of Holy Cross." 
In 1986, GLND/SMC requested office space in LaFortune, a telephone line, and the ability to sponsor lectures. The University would not recognize the group because it considered it inappropriate to recognize a group based on sexual prefer­ence and deemed 
Gas 
continued from page 1 
liquid gas presently costs around $1.10, the equivalent of 
one gallon of natural gas is around $. 70. In reference to 
Macri's Pizza & Italian Restaurant 

miles per gallon, cars running 
Pizza-Pasta-Sandwi~ches-Stuffed Pizza Pies 

on either fuel average the same mileage. According to Ogren, cars running on natural gas 
Carry out have a power loss of around 
8%. or Dine in 
MARCH 15 AT 2:00 P.M. 
The physical conversion of the vehicles is being done by 
4 MUilCAt. COMan' • 1001 IT Uat.Ul. ITftAft !IUIIC 11' ClV.JLII ITIOIIII, I.PICJ IT U1 AIWII
NIPSCO, Ogren said. Since 52303 Emmons Rd. 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM
1981, NIPSCO has converted OPEN TUES-SUN 
Georgetown Shopping Center 

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE
nearly all of their trucks to 
llAM-lOPM (next to Club Shenanigan's) 

natural gas. 
The Observer 

page 6 Friday, March 6, 1992 
Grier: Abortion threatE~ns blacks 
tell me a black woman can't 
survive a nine month pregnancy 
and care for her children? Who 
made that decision? Society 
made the decision," she con­
tended. 
Grier faulted those who de­
tach themselves from the abor­
tion issue out of apathy and 
said that "apathy is saying, 'I 
don't want to be involved...! 
don't care what happens to 
anyone else.'" 
She called for an end to apa­thy and the casual treatment of abortion, questioning the audi­ence, "what are we doing that may be.. contributing to that hand of death by our apathy?" She continued by saying that si­lence or a lack of action is the same as accepting abortion. 
Grier also said that abortion 
rights proponents are not pro­
choice, but pro-abortion, and 
that there can be no middle 
ground in between. "They [the 
Supreme Court] did not legalize 
choice, they legalized abortion," 
she said, and urged people to 
"take a stand and be what you 
are. Be pro-life, be pro-abor­
tion, but don't say 'I'm pro­
choice.'" 
Abortion supporters are often afraid to say they support killing, Grier said, and she challenged what she called their cowardice, referring to a biblical passage in which Jesus says, 'I vomit you out of my mouth if you be lukewarm.' Grier added that people use pro-choice terminology because they don't want to be associated with murder. 
Asserting that materialism and greed typically accompany the abortion industry, Grier said physicians who perform abortions are enjoying lucrative returns in terms of compensa­tion, taking in as much as $900 an hour for their services. "(Many] can't stand what they're doing, but the money is good," she said. 
Grier further faulted abor­tionists because they are trained and educated to be "healers of health," but they become "dealers of death, proud to say 'I'm a pregnancy terminator.'" Grier alleged that "every doctor that does an abortion is a hit man." She said 
homosexuality as going against Catholic teaching, Vore said. 
The group's current letter addresses the University objec­tions by stating that the issue is not "preference," but orienta­tion, which is inborn, and therefore analogous to race or national origin. 
"We've been arguing for the last year that Catholic teaching insists on a distinction between sexual orientation and sexual activity, forbidding the latter, but acknowledging the former," Vore said. "Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's has always maintained a neutral stance on questions about activity, so that we wouldn't conflict with Catholic teaching." 
Until the group receives offi­according to Grier. 
Killing is never necessary to resolve any problem, Grier said and continued that alternatives are always available in the form of expanding church programs and adoption. 
In a closing question and an­swer session, Grier cited the movie Roots for its reference to unborn life, in which African­Americans are sub-divided into three classes: those we see, our ancestors, and those who are waiting to be born. She also mentioned a traditional Kenyan maxim which states, "no one knows whose womb bears the chief." 

NEW YORK (AP) -Computer users took precautions to disin­fect their machines from a virus set to strike on Michelangelo's birthday Friday although some experts did not expect widespread damage from the electronic prank. 
The rogue program, found in machines built to the IBM stan­dard, will be triggered on March 6, the 51 7th anniversary of the birth of the Renaissance artist. If unchecked, it can de­stroy all the information in a machine. 
The National Computer Secu­ritv Association estimates no 

cial recognition by the Univer­sity, the current co-chairs, who asked that their names remain confidential due to "family and career" pressures, said the GLND/SMC will continue to "fight against heterosexual prejudice and stereotypes, and. . . to fight for the needs of les­bians and gays in the Notre Dame community, with a Catholic sense of values, and more specifically, with a Catholic sense of justice." 
"The University will probably turn us down," Vore concluded, "but then I suppose we can just start papering the bathroom walls with copies of the rejec­tion letter instead of the other garbage you find there." 

,r::·~ 
r.:-\... -~';;::;\_
·?Tuifle~Creek 
Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 211 0 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
272·812.4 
SAINT JOSEPH'S HIGH SCHOO£ 
prcacnt.a 
·"•' • -.M ·-.......~.................-...................... ,. • • ............. ---~ 
Viewpoint 

Friday, March 6, 1998 page 7 

--A.-=Y.=!
---Ih-----. e-0-bse.----~~er---­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 

News Editor .•........•............ Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor ...•.............. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ..........•..•. David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor ........•........•.. John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ..........•...•.••... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Basketball fans' behavior offends Christian reader 
Dear Editor: 
Recently I decided to attend a game of basketball between our team and a team from St. Johns. Almost immediately, I became alarmed. You see, a player from St. John's made the mistake of some sort, and the fans began to cheer this event. I became upset, and immedi­ately exited the JACC. 
Upon introspection, it oc­curred to me why I had become frightened. Here we were, a Christian school, playing a game with another Christian school, but it was no "game," and it certainly was not Christian. Christians don't mock one another, and take delight at another's misfortune. 
How do you think that young man from St. Johns felt? Did any of you barbarians stop to think about that? Regardless of our "victory," I don't think any of us were winners that day. 
I have to stop writing now, be­fore I get too worked up. 
Charlie Fisher Grace Hall Mar. 2, 1992 


Sex should be more than just physical 
Dear Editor: 
I'd just like to thank God for The Observer again. Whenever I have a problem, I can count on one of the insightful Observer writers to clear things up for me. 
This year, I've learned so far where I'm safe in South Bend and where I'm not, that I'm not responsible enough to buy my own condoms, how to behave towards my local sports teams, and now, most importantly, that when I say I'm in love with chocolate cake, I'm not in "love" with chocolate cake. 
My own problem was quite similar to Mr. Schwartz's, only I thought I was in love with Tootsie Pops. It was getting to the point where I was thinking of going to the infirmary for counseling. Now, thanks to the Inside Column, I don't have to. I do have a few problems left though. 
First off, even though I now understand love, I'm still having a problem with sex. It's more difficult because although I can love (not real love, just chocolate cake love) Tootsie Pops, I can't have sex with them (well, it's harder for guys at least). 
Mr Schwartz is at least correct when he says, "sex is especially confusing, because sex involves people." I won't mention the fringe (I hope they're still just fringe) elements for whom sex does not involve only people. 

The confusion that Mr. Schwartz is speaking of is evi­dent immediately when reading his article. 
Mr. Schwartz's views on guiltless sex are certainly not particularly extraordinary or original, he would have been a great proponent of "swinging" in the seventies. What really did astound me was the position he has taken in this day and age. It's really easy to pick apart his article just because it was poorly written and not too well thought out, and that's what I originally intended to do. 
I thought I would give the campus a few more laughs at Mr. Schwartz's expense, and I was all ready to do so, then I started to think about what he said (or was trying to say). 
First of all, I think there are just a few people who might not agree that there aren't "enough people who just enjoy the physi­cal side of sex" nowadays. Even if I thought Mr. Schwartz was referring only to the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community, I would be want to fmd this large group of abstinent young people who don't enjoy the physical aspects of sex (maybe his girlfriend, I don't know). If anything, throughout history, the human race has proved how much it really does enjoy sex, with and without (unfortunately) people. 
How many emperors, kings, scientists, and intellectuals of all sorts have we lost due to sexually communicable dis­eases? Mr. Schwartz's view is especially dangerous in this day of AIDS. I really hated to bring that up again, but it's become a fact of life even Catholic boys and girls (and that's what we are, don't give me this women and men stufl) can't ignore. 
I happen to be Catholic myself and to believe in the Church's views on abstinence before marriage, and I don't normally judge other people's sexual be­liefs according to my own stan­dards, but actually recommend­ing to young people that they try to "control [their] sexuality" and just enjoy sex for its physical pleasure is not only stupid, it's plain dangerous. 
I understand where Mr. Schwartz's motivations are coming from, the world is full of Catholics who don't want to be held responsible for their sins. Mr. Schwartz by no means the first to try to ease his own guilt by proposing his own amendments to and changes in the Catholic faith. 
My recommendations to Mr. Schwartz are two: One, if you don't change your views, don't get married in a church. 1\vo, if and when you do get married and have a daughter, to think about at what age you're going to tell your little girl to forget about love and "just enjoy the physical side of sex." 
John Stoj Off-Campus Mar.1, 1992 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY
DOONESBURY 
H&Y, BABt! H(JJ,/IJ 7H& A1f&TING 
I A£50tfARNW SCYrT&THING 
I I£,4RNCI} JUSTA5 

WITH Y(J(JR Nf/AJ CUCNT GO~ 
VbRY VAWA&e 7DOAY, J.J. 
MlJCJf SATI5f'ACTTCNIWIJIJ/6N17Y 
I teARNW I IXAV7N6el) A 
IN A !riOfJe5T tOCAf... CAMPAIGN!
I 
MIUION-WUAR. NATIONAi-AC­
IT/7Cif6N'TMA'TllR MIAT YCV 
Cf»>T 70 VAUOJm; WHATI{}()! 
5/!U.-IT'S HaU revseJ..l. m 
\ 
UM... CAR£:1=/UY 
SCI?&eNW 
HOS~. 
\ 

'One murder makes a villain, millions a hero.' 
Beilby Porteus 

Ifyou're still here, do something. submit: 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 



r 
r 
r 
r 

MARCH 6-8 
lr--=~~~------~~~·~----·-­
weekend calendar 
friday 
MUSIC 
Oliver Syndrome, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m. 
Reggae, Club 23, 10 p.m. Harvey Stauffer and the Swinging Crawdads with the Tailpipe Horn Section, Midway Tavern, 9:30p.m. 
saturday 
MUSIC 
Housemarys, Club Shenanigans, 1 0 p.m. Science Fiction, Club 23, 1 0 p.m. Harvey Stauffer and the Swinging Crawdads with the Tailpipe Horn Section, Midway Tavern, 9:30 p.m. 
EVENTS Spring Concert: Southold Dance Theatre, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, 2 & 8 p.m. NO Basketball vs DePaul, Rosmont Horizon, Chicago, 7p.m. 
sunday 
EVENTS World Wrestling Federation, JACC, 2 p.m. Saint Marys Tennis vs Guilford College, Hilton Head Island, SC, 8 a.m. 
fi)IDS 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 
"Hook," 7 & 9:40p.m. 
"Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot," 6:45 & 9 p.m. "JFK," 4:30 & 8 p.m. "Fried Green Tomatoes," 7 & 9:30p.m. 

-
Ill 
Shenanigans sing and dance 
their way to California 
By STEVE TANKOVICH 
Accent Writer 
S 
henanigans is going west. 
Shenanigans 
is continuing 
its 1Oth year anniversary celebra­tion with its annual spring tour. The tour, through several cities in California, including San Francisco, Sacramento, San Diego, and Los Angeles, will take place from March 7 through March 16. 
Shenanigans, Notre Dame's only singing and dancing ensemble, is a group of 18 singers and dancers, eight musicians, and a sound technician. The group puts on several shows a year for Notre Dame students and faculty, as well as the public. 
This year, Shenanigans has put on a successful Christmas concert, performed at Freshman Orientation Weekend, football weekends, and most recently at Junior Parents' Weekend. As has been the case for the last several years, they will also be performing during Commencement Weekend in May. 
Shenanigans was started in 1982 by Rick Ward, a member of the Glee Club who organized with several of his friends who wanted to include dancing with their singing programs. 
The group is led this year by Dean Sipe, a junior from Pangborn who is the acting General Manager. The group's advisor is Charles Lennon. Joe Clair is Shenanigans' Tour Manager. All of Shenanigans' performances are videotaped by Emil Hoffman, former dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. "It's amazing how much he does for us. He's a really nice guy," says Sipe. 
The group is getting very excited about the tour next week. In the beginning, there were concerns with going to California because of the money factor, Sipe explains, but enough was done to make the trip possible. 
The tour is ideally set up so that it pays for itself. Donations will be taken at concerts, and t-shirts will be sold. Also, many Notre Dame alumni clubs are sponsoring concerts in their cities. 
Shenanigans will be leaving this Saturday for San Francisco. They then travel to the University of C a liforni a-Berkley, where they will perform a benefit concert for the homeless. 
Sacramento and San Francisco are next on the group's itinerary. In addition to an evening concert at the Punchline, Shenanigans will do a special concert for the AIDS ward at San Francisco General Hospital. 
After a day of traveling down the coast to Santa Barbara, Shenanigans will do a show at a popular lunchtime park and then move on to San Diego. 
In San Diego, Shenanigans will perform at a local Ronald McDonald's house. They will stay the night in San Diego, and then be on their way to Los Angeles. 
Friday is sure to be a highlight of the trip, as Sipe explains, ''I'm going to Disneyland." In addition to visiting the park, Shenanigans will be able to perform at Disneyland. 
After seeing the sights, the group will perform one final concert at Cal Poly University in Pomona, before returning to South Bend. 
"There's a great feeling of satisfaction after a show because [Shenanigans] is totally student-run," admits Stanford sophomore and two-year piano player, Mike Cotter. 


By JENNIFER GUERIN 
Accent Writer 
N 
ext week, 4 7 dreams will 
come true. 
Financed by alumni clubs 
in Georgia and Florida, as 
well as other donations, a 
representative group of the 

Voices of Faith gospel choir will embark 
Saturday morning on their first extensive 
tour ever. 
The student-run Voices of Faith, 
combining dedication and musical talent, 
stimulated enough interest among Notre 
Dame alumni last year to transform a 
long-standing dream of touring into 
reality. 
After performing for alumni at various 
functions over past years, the ensemble 
was approached by people interested in 
organizing and financing a trip for the 
week of this year's spring break. Touring 
has been an aspiration of Voices of Faith 
leaders for a few years, and they readily 
·-----------·-~-----------~---~--­

-
Ill 
e sun 


,lith spread message of God in the South 
:ed the opportunity. he 4 7 touring members will perform at r sites in the two states, including 
ory University in Atlanta, the 
versity of South Florida in Tampa, and 
eater in Belle Glade, FL. 
highlight of the tour will be their two­stay at Disney World, where they will rorm at Epcot Center and be given plimentary passes to enjoy the park. 1ices of Faith sees the trip as a fund 1er, a reward, a vacation, and a nendous opportunity to spread their 
•sage while attracting interest and >ort. 
1-presidents Keith Johnson and Andre ~ett are thrilled their group is getting opportunity to travel. Both agree that ~sure is the key to the spring break 
lefore," stated Barrett, "we were unate to have 20 people to come out hear us.. .I feel we've put a lot of k into the choir in the past couple of 
years." Both he and Johnson remarked that the diligence of the members, com­bined with more talent and interest among them, has brought confidence and success to the group. 
Organized in 1979 by a handful of interested students, the choir did not really flourish until 1988, when, according to Barrett, an "influx in quality people" and skyrocketing interest brought the group to its current size. 
The 75 members of the Voices of Faith include talented singers from a variety of backgrounds who join together throughout the year for performances at Notre Dame and in the South Bend community. 
Barrett emphasized their primary purpose is to worship and praise God, not to entertain. The co-presidents agreed that more exposure will help people to understand the message of the group. 
Performing at Notre Dame is quite different from performing for other audiences. Although the audiences enjoy the shows and let the choir know this, "the Catholic audience in general receives us in a different manner," said Johnson. They participate less vocally and actively than most recipients of the gospel tradition. 
Despite this fact, members find the group a source of comfort and belonging. Andre Barrett noted, "It has been a stabilizing force for me over the four years," an opportunity to share similar cultural traditions with people who have common religious and ethnic ties. 
Johnson, a sophomore, hopes the tour will become a regular event on the Voices of Faith calendar. "I would love to do it again," he said. "We always enjoy sending our message out, as long as it's received well." 
The group charges a flat fee for singing at each location on next week's tour. Most of the money, raised by alumni clubs in the performance area, will cover the expenses of travel. Some of the locations will also be charging admission. 

To save money, members will be stayin~ in the houses of area alumni, whenever possible. They hope to return home with a small profit, which will be used tc purchase new musical equipment and robes for the singers. A campaign to raisE money for these robes, which are ver} expensive, will probably begin on campm very soon. 
Notre Dame senior Raghib Ismail donated $2,500 of his own money to the choir, and two individuals involved in thE Spring Break tour of the south each donated $1,700 to cover expenses for twc of the concerts. 
The Voices of Faith move more and more audiences with their shows each year. With increasing exposure they hope to help people realize they offer a distinct and intense spiritual and emotional message about God. Theirs is a form of praise and celebration-a form they hope to use to strengthen themselves and their audiences across the nation. 

Glee Club seeks sun in the South 
By JOHN TRAN performing at the they have been "The Glee Club is a 
Accent Writer Church of San Juan performing all over musical and soc.ial Bautista, Maricao, Europe and the United organization that Tuesday. States. As a result, travels extensively ­
T 
he songs of Notre Dame alumni and throughout the country N o t r e On the following day the music community and throughout the Dame are the Glee Club will head from all over the world world. Its members act heading on to Ponce. There, they have come to recognize as ambassadors of the 
south for will sing their final the Glee Club as a University bringing 
spring concert in Puerto Rico unique organization music as well as the break as the Glee Club at the el Teatro de Ia that represen·t the Spirit of Notre Dame to begins their tour in Perla. University and the spirit alumni and others," Puerto Rico and Florida. The Glee Club plans to of Notre Dame. according to senior 
Arriving in San Juan spend the rest of the John Ujda. Saturday, the Glee Club week in Florida. Their The Glee Club pays will perform their first stay in Florida will for the majority of the The Glee Club is concert of the tour on include performances to expenses for their currently operating Sunday at Ia Iglesia de Notre Dame alumni and current spring break under the direction of San Jose, Villa Caparra Catholic organizations. trip. Revenues are Dr. Mark Ring. Its Co­Guyanabo. After visiting The Glee Club began generated from presidents are Dennis the mountains on 76 years ago, and concerts and records Brown and John Monday, they will be throughout the years, sales. Thiede. 
page 10 Friday, March 6, 1992 
Smoking and Monk's brave new world 
After reading the new policy on smoking, I actually had a kind thought about Medjugorje, which is tobacco­growing country. 
The priests there don't dis­courage the members of their flock from smoking. The priests tell them to abstain form smoking one day a week clear evidence that we have come to the end of an era. Hard-shelled Baptists have always regarded the use of tobacco as morally wrong, since it harms the body, which is a temple of the Holy Spirit. 
Catholics are finally catching up with the 


Father Robert Griffin 



letters to a lonely God 

neanderthals, lone wolves, another. The smokers who are rednecks who drive trucks, or most visible to me are the 
exhale every week, and the foul-smelling cigars that our visitors smoke. 
Then let's take a look at the gas-burning engines in the cars people drive all over our beautiful Notre Dame campus, poisoning every green and growing thing. 
as they'd abstain from meat, or wine, or any other of God's good gifts. 
The priests say such acts of self-denial please Our Lady. The prinsts promise the people that if they will attend Mass faithfully, God will send rain to water the fields where the tobacro is growing. 
This discernment of God's will must have been passed onto the priests like second­hand, or side-stream effect, smoke from the visionaries whom Our Lady has allegedly befriended. 
Maybe Medjugorje will be the last bastion for Catholic smokers in the free world. Maybe the priests at St. James' can turn smoking into a sacrament that will make the sun dance. 
Maybe Domers, subject to nicotine fits, could start a novena asking Our Lady of Medjugorje, defender of smokers' rights, to pray for them. 
The new ground-rules are 
Fundamentalists in outlawing smoking as a student activity. At denominational colleges like Bob Jones and Wheaton, you have to renounce smoking-as well as cmrd­playing, dancing, and drinking-as a condition for acceptance. 
Born-again Christians are always looking for new ways of showing that they are not brain-washed. I've met Notre Dame students who go to Mass every day of the week except Sunday, because that's when their religion requi.res them to go under pain of sin. 
Smoking as a vice is becoming very expensive-cigarettes are starting to cost two bucks or more a pack, and it's becoming socially unacceptable even in brothels that have a high tone. As a lifetime smoker, I'm embar­rassed to light up, even in my room, if non-smokers are pre­sent. 
Those who continue to smoke tend to be throwbacks, curmudgeonly old priests. 
The generation now flowering takes great pride in having clean lungs an good teeth. There is no glamour to smoking for them except as a form of rebellion that proves that they're free spirits. 
Students paying $18,000 a year for their education don't go out of their way to be decadent; but if you tell them that you have passed a rule forbidding them to drink anywhere on campus, you may wake up on Sunday morning, to find their dead soldiers all over the Grotto. 
It's the rare student who smokes at Notre Dame; and those undergraduates who do smoke are usually occasional smokers who light up a couple of times in the evening. 
The backsliders at Bob Jones and Wheaton are probably more hard-core in their smoking than any student who gets hooked on cigarettes at Notre Dame. 
Smokers have a way of being very visible to one 

workers staffing the dormitories and the dining halls. I see them taking smoke-breaks when their work allows them to come up for air. 
They rely on cigarettes, enjoyed with coffee, to give them their mid-morning or afternoon pickup. Life would be harder for them, if Notre Dame became officially smokeless; since their salad days, when they were wet behind the ears, they've relied on smoking as a way of dealing with stress. 
I'm trying to decide if the task force on smoking deserves my forgiveness. I think probably it does, at least until after the dust has settled, and we can discover whose bulls have been gored. 
At first, I had a feeling that the rules go too far; now I'm wondering if they go far enough. If clean air is the name of the game, let's clamp a lid on the place that will keep out the pollution, starting with the two cartons of Pall Malls I inhale and 
As a senior smoker, I forgive the task force that is offering me a stone when I hoped for an egg; and such forgiveness isn't easy when you're running scared. Sometimes I think that nicotine is the glue that keeps these vital organs of mine in place. 
But old smokers never die; like chimney sweepers, they just come to dust. Nter years of battling for smokers' rights, I've decided to take a fresh-air course from the Heart Association. 
I hope that as a re-pro­grammed non-smoker, I can be a part of Monk's brave new world where, on a clear day, you should see forever. 
If all my good intentions fail, I still have the Medjugorites to keep honest. I heard that Our Lady's message of the month for March to the alleged visionaries was: "Medjugorje means fine tobacco." 
What new product do you suppose she's promoting, whoever she is, calling herself the Mother of God? 

The Observer wish!:t everyone a happy spring break!!! 
FOUR YEARS OF COLLI~GE 
DOWN THE TUBES. 

-
If you think the tests in col­$60 billion to drugs. means you won't be considered lege are tough, wait until your So this year, most of the for employment. first job interview. Last year, Fortune 500 will be administer­Afte1' all, if you're into drugs, America's businesses lost ing drug tests. Failing the test how smart can you be. 
WE'RE PUTTING DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS. 
Partnership for a Drug-Free Amen·ca 

you are looking for a 
fun, part-time job stop by The Observer or call 239-7471. 
I 
Whatever your sport, vigorous exercise can help keep your 
Take vour heart 
to court. 
~c· 
Or on a bike ride. 
...Jt.__..J Or out for a jog.
' 

Serving the Notre Dame Community for Over 30 years 
2112 South Bend Ave. Appointments if desired 
272~6722 
heart healthy. 
/aAmerican Heart ~Association . 
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR YOUR LIFE 

Join Little Professor's Children's Rug Club 
Every Saturday at 10:30 a.m., 
Little Professor will be holding a weekly storytime with activities for children ages 8 and under. 
March 7 Get your picture taken with Olfford and the Blg 
Red Dog 

March 14 Celebrate St. Patrick's Day with the Uttle Professor March 21 The Potawatoml Zoo is bringing a SURPRISE Animal. We'll read stories about this special mammal. March 28 Celebrate Dr. Seuss and hls Cat ln the Hat 

Ironwood Plaza North • State Road 23 at Ironwood South Bend • 271-4488 • Mon.-Sat: 10:00-9:00 • Sun.: 10:00-5:00 
-----------~--.---~--~--=-----------~----~----------------~----~~.-----~ 

NOTRE DAME SOFTBALL

NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL SPRING BREAK 
SPRING BREAK SPORTS SCHEDULE
Notre Dame Basketball Statistics 1991 NOTRE DAME SOFTBALL STATISTICS (38-22·0) 
MEN'S BASKETBALL March 7 AVG AVG TOT AVG Batter Avg. GIGS AB R H RBI 2B 3BHR SBISBA at DePaul 7:00pmAST PTSPLAYER GP-GS MIN FG-FGA PCT FT-FTA PCT REB March 9 at Evansville 7:35pm
26-26 35.8 184·291 .632 103·154 .669 11.5 41 18.3 Allord .667 32118 3 0 2 1 0 0 0 00 Sweet, Daimon 26-26 34.8 178·342 .520 70·86 .814 2.5 51 17.4 Pinter .364 30{7 44 7 16 8 3 1 0 00 
Ellis, Laphonso WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Bennett, Elmer 26-26 35.7 158·350 .451 84·118 .712 3.3 156 16.7 Connoyer .339 42137 118 11 40 t3 4 1 0 :11.1 
March 7 Taylor, Billy 26·25 30.2 70-153 .458 24·35 .686 2.9 43 6.5 Miller .308 54151 146 21 45 23 7 2 0 415 
at Old Dominion 7:35p.m.Tower, Keith 24·23 
25.4 45·111 .405 21·35 .600 5.8 34 4.6 McMurray .302 34116 63 5 19 14 1 1 0 00 March 12 Ross, Jon 25·2 12.6 37·68 .544 18·22 .818 2.3 13 3.7 Fay .284 55154 155 26 44 21 7 2 0 10112 

atMCC 12 seed Russell, Malik 23-1 
12.4 15·35 .429 9·17 .529 1.3 26 1.7 Quinn .247 33127 77 8 19 3 3 0 0 212 Championships 3;00 p.m. 

Cozen, Carl 20-0 6.8 11-33 .333 2-6 .333 0.8 6 1.5 Alvarez .246 49141 122 20 30 4 1 0 0 9112 Boyer. Brooks 26-0 
4.5 10-23 .375 4-6 .667 0.5 7 1.0 Crossen .218 56152 147 20 32 14 7 0 0 210 BASEBALL Ross, Joe 18-1 4.7 5-13 .385 0-5 .000 0.9 1 0.6 Kmak• .216 59158 162 14 35 9 3 1 0 113 

at Big Four Classic, Lousvilie Justice, Lamarr 16-0 3.1 3-5 
.600 1-2 .500 0.4 1 0.4 Folsom .202 50145 114 10 23 5 4 0 0 111 

March 6 vs. Louisville, 3:30pm Tully, Brendan 
1-0 2.0 1-1 1.000 0-0 .000 0.0 0 2.0 Sommerlad .200 35127 80 10 16 6 1 t 0 214 

March 7 vs. Kentucky, 11 am Gilmore, Nathion 8-0 4.5 0-4 
.000 0-0 .000 0.6 2 0.0 Boulac .199 54154 136 9 27 17 2 1 0 111 

March 7 vs. Indiana. 2:30 pm Williams, Jason 3-0 5.3 0-4 .000 0-0 .000 0.3 1 0.0 Yerneni .198 49146 96 5 19 9 3 1 0 212 March 8 Cha"llionshp, 3:30 pm Adamson, Matt 1-0 4.0 0-2 .000 0-0 .000 0.0 0 0.0 Cook .171 23115 35 3 6 4 0 2 0 111 
Consolation, 12 noon TOTALS 
26 5200 717-1435 .500 336-486 .691 33.8 382 71.0 Miller .170 41119 47 11 8 2 1 0 0 10115 OPPONENTS 26 5200 699-1501 .466 391-583 
.671 32.1 348 74.0 Harter .000 910 3 2 0 0 0 0 0 00 

SOFTBALLMae .000 110 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 March 7-8 
PCT Dwyer .000 110 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00

3-POINTERS: FG-FGA at Southeastern Illinois Tournament 76-112 .355 Barnas .000 110 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00NOTRE DAME March 9-15Rueter .000 2110 0 7 0 0 0 0 :11.1
OPPONENTS 135-349 .387 0 at Tampa Bay Games
Kelly .000 110 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 Linn .000 29127 0

Score by Periods: 1st 2nd TOTAL 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 HOCKEY937 987 1924Opponents at Independent Tournament Notre Dame 86t 985 t846 March 6 vs. Alaska Fairbanks Notre Dame .246 60160 1550 189 381 153 47 13 0 49166 March 7 Consolation/Championship 
OVERALL HOME AWAY NEUTRAL Opponent .205 60160 1504 123 309 102 52 10 3 41155 NOTRE DAME 14-12 8-5 
RECORD: 5-7 t-0 
WRESTLING March 7 NCAA West Regionals 
MEN'S TENNIS March 6-8 at H.E.B. Championships 
TRANSACTIONS 
Corpus Cristi, TX 
WOMEN'S TENNIS American Le<fgue ATLANTA BRAVES-Agreed to terms NCAA-Suspended New Orleans HOCKEY March 5 BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Signed Alan with David Justice, outfielder; Mark Lemke and basketball center Sydney Rice tor one game lor National Hockey League vs. NMhwestern 1pm Mills, Anthony Telford, Jim Poole and Jim Lewis, Francisco Cabrera, infielders; Brian Hunter, first DETROIT RED WINGS-Sent Bobby March 7 
BASEBALL National League COLLEGE 
particpating in a non-sanctioned city league game 

pitchers. baseman; Kent Mercker, p~cher; and Greg Olson. Dollas, detenseman, to Adirondack of the vs. Indiana tOpm
in 1989. 

KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Agreed to catcher, on one-year contracts. Renewed the American Hockey League. Recalled Dennis Vial, 
DREXEL-Announced the retirement 

terms w~h Jell Conine, first baseman, on a one­contract of Deion Sanders, outfielder. delenseman. and Chris Tancill, center, from TRACK
of Lillian Hass, women's basketball coach, 

year contract. CHICAGO CUBS-Signed Frank Adirondack. March 7-8 ICAA Championships
effective in June. MILWAUKEE BREWERS­Castillo, Lance Dickson, Mike Harkey, Bob MINNESOTA NORTH STARS­at Princeton, NJ
GEORGIA MILITARY-Announced 

Announced that Dick Hackett. assistant to the Scanlan and Turk Wendell. pitchers; Hector Assigned Enrico Ciccone, delenseman. to
the resignation of Glen Wolfe, football coach. president, is leaving his day-to-day duties but will Villanueva. catcher; Pedro Castellano, Elvin Kalamazoo of the International Hockey League. FENCING
JERSEY CITY STATE-Named Mark be retained as a consultant. Paulino. Ray Sanchez. Doug Strange and Jose SAN JOSE SHARKS-Recalled Mike March 7 
Griffin assistant athletic director. MINNESOTA TWINS-Agreed to Vizcaino, infielders; and Doug Dascenzo. Ced Colman, detenseman, from Kansas C~y of the Midwest Championship NCAA Oualitications 
STANFORD-Named Bill Ring 

terms w~h Scott Leius. third baseman; Paul Landrum and Derrick May, outfielders. International Hockey League. at East Lansing. Mt
running backs coach. Sorrento, first baseman; and Tom Edens, pitcher. CINCINNATI REDS-Agreed to terms 
TULSA-Named Mike Knoll on one-year contracts. with Hal Morris, first baseman, on a one-year defensive coordinator and George Small defensive LACROSSE NEW YORK YANKEES-Renewed contract. Renewed the contract of Joe Oliver. ends coach. March 7 the contracts of Kevin Maas, designated hitter-first at Philldelphia Classic 12 noon
catcher. WESTFIELD STATE-Named Tim 

baseman; Charlie Hayes, third baseman; Bernie LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Signed vs. Villanova Franklin Field
Buchanon men's soccer coach. Williams, outlieider; John Ramos, catcher; and Jeff Ramon Martinez. p~cher, to a one-year contract. 
Johnson and Wade Taylor, pitchers. 
The Observer accepts dassWieds every business day from 10 am. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline tor next-day classified& is ~.m. All dassWieds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 

USED TEXTBOOKS! Buy & Sell Books Pandora's Books 3 blks. lrom ND 233-2342/10-5:30 M-Sun 
Typing Service-Experienced typist -resumes, papers, etc. uses AT&T · computer. Epson printer. Call656­3158. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082. 
Typing Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 
·I LOST/FOUND 
LOST: Brown framed glasses in a red case, if found please call 284-5256 
LOST: pr. of black ski mittens on way to Loftus lrom Lewis. This great weather may not last and I need those mittens. Tow ropes are harsh on the bare hands. Call Jeni at x420g. 
LOST 
glasses in Ray-Ban case on 2/29 between the JACC and Keenan. Gold framed. Tortoise ear-pieces. Please call Dave x3328 
lost: I lost 3 id cards last week with the names ol: Todd Ogburn Blane Shearon Kevin Feerick If found, PLEASE call Brian at x3537 and I will identify them. 
LOST: black hooded SCARF with pink, green, and purple design. Sentimental value. Please call Cathy, x3840 
Found: One pair of blue contact lenses in the CSC. Call the CSC to claim them. 
FOUND: Mechanical Drafting Pencil on the sidewalk by Farely Hall. To indentify and daim, call Chris at X2115 by the Sunday after break. 
••••••FOUND••••• pair of GLASSES found in bleachers at St. John's basketball game on Sat. 2-29-92 call x4416 to identify 
WANTED 
AGENTS WANTED TO PROCESS phone orders. People Call you. Will Train. 1-800-727-9716 Ext. 555. 24 HAS. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1 -BD0-786-8373 
Student staying in South Bend for the summer interested in house­sitting or subletting. Call Monica at 283-4098. 
FOR RENT 
I 
....._________,~ 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
SUMMER SCHOOL RENTAL­3 SEPARATE BEDROOMS, USE OF FACILITIES, KITCHEN, WASHING, $225/MO. NICE NEIGHBORHOOD­& HOME. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. PAUL 232-2794. 
6-7 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. FURNISHED.272-6306 
Student rental for '92-93. 4 bdrms & loft. Avail. Aug. 232­
4964. 
FOR RENT 
"'NLY $125 PER PERSON.... 259-7801 OR 255-5852" For Rent 5Br. 2 bth house for next semester newly remodeled, 1 mile from campus. Right behind laf. Squ. Security sys. Wash/dryer call 232-8256 
SHARE 2-BR HOME wl M Grad Stdnt Garden, appls, 2-car gar. Avl Apr 1 (No joke!) 288-3878 
HOUSES FOR RENT, SECURITY SYSTEMS, FURNISHED, 4-8 BEDROOMS, KEGERATORS. 287­4989. 
Student rental, large 6-8 bdrm. 
avail. Aug. 288-6740. 
FOR SALE 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 
89 Mercedes......................$200 
86 VW....................................$50 
87 Mercedes......................$100 
65 Mustang..........................$50 
Choose from thousands starting 
$25. 
FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Details 801-379-2929 Copyright 
#IN11KJC
I PERSONAL 
. INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
Good rates. Save Money. Call me 
for a quote 9:30-6:00, 
289-1993. Office near campus. 
DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO O'HARE? CALL UNITED LIMO. SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK FROM ND BUS SHELTER. 674-7000 OR 1-800-833-5555. 
SPRING BREAK -S. PADRE ISLAND, TEXAS. "RADDISON RESORT"BEACHFRONT PARTIES! SLEEPS 6, ALSO 3 BR, SLEEPS B. DISCOUNT BY OWNER. 1-212-472-1414. 
We are Strong SUNSHINE CAB CO. 50 cents off with this ad and 4 hours advance reservation. Station wagon available for large groups. 299-0202 
I, myself, cannot. 
We are not strong 
You should be with us, feeling like we do... 
WHY WE LIKE MIKE KANE: 
10. His outrageous New York accent. 
9. His ability to answer the phone without that accent and with a suave "Good evening." 
8. That wonderful appetite for White Castles. 
7. His lan club stretching from Boston to Kentucky (Hi, Sarah.) 
6. The wisdom he gives us when he's sleeping ("1=1=1") 
5. Jumping from airplanes. Null said. 
4. Being silly enough to run a marathon-and lucky enough to live. 
3. B.S.ing enough head staffers to become A.A. 
2. Surviving three years with Bert. (That alone merits a Purple Heart) 
1. HE TURNS 21 on Saturday! (lucky dogI) Have a good one, big guy. Love, Paul, Joe, Justin, Chris and Bert (and Chi-Chi, too) 
DEDE, 
Club Dancing\ Bartending There is no substitute!!!! Oh well, there's always ARIZONA!!!! Love Ya, DUANE 
HEY Brunettes: What is natural ability to our highly rated TALENT and vast EXPERIENCE ?1!!1 Face the Facts: ITS NO CONTEST!!Ill BLONDES ARE #11 See you in CANCUNI -The BLONDES 
To CS, MG, AR, NE, AND HH: All kidding aside, I hope we have the best time in Cancunl See ya Sat A.M.I Love Amanda hey nil 

STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Caii1-B00-878-3696. 
The lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans! 
there's nothing worse than to see a whole family torn apart by something as simple as a pack ol wild dogs 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND CONDOMINIUMS FOR SPRING BREAK. $25 PER PERSON PER NIGHTI OFF BEACH. $29 PER PERSON PER NIGHT/ BEACHFRONT. 1-800-422-8212. 
to the athletic dept.: 
your time is gonna come 
-led zeppelin 

HAO, LULAC, and the Office of Minority Student Affairs cordially invite you to attend Dr. Samuel Betances' lecture, "The Many Faces ol the Hispanic" on Mon. March 16, at 7:00pm in the library Auditorium. A reception will follow and all are welcome. 
···Gooney misses you! 

•••He can hardly wait for spring 
break. 

•••He really wants his bed back. 
-Gooney 

It puts the lotion on its skin, or else 
it gets the hose again. 
(Stupid.) 

She sings a song and I listen to what it says-If you want a friend, feed any animal There's so much space, I cut me a piece with some fine wine, It brought peace to my mind in the Summertime, And it rolled! 
Mr. Pickle lives in a forest. 
Renee if we study I can stay. 
HaHa!!! 
NDE #20-to my favorite group 3: I hope that you guys are having a good semester. I miss you all! Have a fun and safe Spring Break! Love, Loan 
The Cancun Countdown is finally at one. 
Are y'all ready to have some fun? 
There's plenty of sun for everyone, 
But will the Blondes some?! (sun, that is... ) 
Despite the fact that you are FREE, 
QUALITY, not quantity is the key. 
We know what the result will be, 
So Blondes face reality... 
There is no doubt the Brunettes will win, 
So let the Cancun Games begin!! 
HAVE A WONDERFUL SPRING BREAK WHEREVER YOU MAY BE 6B111111111111111111111111111 
PEGGY, I HOPE YOU ENJOY YOUR BREAK IN LOSERBURG. LOVE BRYAN 
USDVE YOUK !.4.0._ 5 BEDROOM BOUSE FOit ..NOW! SAFE AllEA. 
PUVATE PABDNG LOT, 
VOLLEYBALL & BAS,KETBAIL COUBT, 
SEIII~nm.NISBED. CALL 
!14-1881 TODAY 



(Clockwise) The 'trotters played a face-paced game, while "Sweel" Lou pulls the shirt off of the referee. The other official watches as they finish their famous warm-up show. 

Page 12 The Observer 
Globetrotters beat Generals; provide fun and folly for fans 
By RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 
From the very beginning, one could tell that something was amiss at the Thunderdome, as the scoreboard listed the quarters in the order 1-3-4-2. This would be no ordinary basketball game. 
Instead of the Fighting Irish, the ACC was rocked by the wizardry of the Harlem Globetrotters, their talent and showmanship stealing the hearts of fans, young and old, who came to pay them a visit. 
From the opening strains of "Sweet Georgia Brown" to the final 'Trotter dunk, the audience was captivated by the performance of the Clown Princes of Basketball as they defeated the Washington Generals 72-63. 
In winning the game, the 'Trotters extended their world-record winning streak of over 7,500 games, a streak covering the past 20 years. 
As the players were being introduced, the fans got a taste of what the evening had in store for them when "Sweet" Lou Dunbar, the reigning "Clown Prince of Basketball" went up to announcer Steve Fisher and demanded that he be introduced next. Fisher, of course, left Dunbar til the end. 

Mixing sometimes serious basketball with usually amazing feats of dribbling, passing, ball-handling, and dunking, the Globetrotters took on the Generals with a light-hearted attitude and plenty of good­natured goofing around. 
Last night's performance included some vintage Globetrotter antics. With the score 34-28 in favor of the 'Trotters, Dunbar ran into the audience and absconded with a lady's purse. As the referee tried to resume play, Dunbar was 
running around with the lady's wallet, 
trying to keep it. When peace was finally 
restored, Dunbar pulled the lady out onto 
the court for a dance session, and the 
remainder of the 'Trotters joined in. 
The biggest laughs of all were brought forth by Dunbar and Matthew "Showbiz" Jackson, who took any and every oppor­tunity to contributo to the play-by-play with rips on the announcer, the various Generals players, and especially the offi­cials. At one point, Dunbar even managed to convince the ref that a two­shot "hugging" foul should only be worth one shot since he only hugged the guy one time. 
At one point, the Globetrotter decided to ham it up in front of the cameras, lining up in front of the channel 46 cameraman and saying, "IIi South Bend. We watch channel 46 all the time." After Dunbar kissed the camera, the 'Trotters then approached thn channel 28 camera and commented on how they only watched that station some of the time. 
As the game continued, the team undoubtedly fulfilled the wishes of some of the young children in the arena. Once, a young boy in a wheelchair was brought on court and had a basketball spin on his finger. On another occasion, Dunbar had another young boy make a basket and then gave him a Globetrotter shirt. Dunbar and the child flexed for a while, and then the leading 'Trotter sent the boy on his way wearing a new shirt, only after trying to hawk it off on the parents for $25. 
Of course, no Globetrotter show would be complete without the famous bucket routine. At the end of the third quarter, after knocking a few cups of water on the crowd, "Showbiz" threw an entire bucket of water on a ref and the fans sitting behind him. Later, heading directly into the stands, Jackson proceeded to launch a bucket of confetti into the fearful crowd. 
It never really mattered who won, but then again, the outcome of the game was never really in any doubt. The fans came to be entertained, and they left satisfied. 
Friday, March 6, 1992 
All photos by John Rock/The Observer 

From pulling the rers shirt up in front of a TV camera to throwing a basketball attached to a string at an unsuspecting woman, the evening was a relaxing and enjoyable event, as the Globetrotters worked their magic and thrilled the fans, reminding everyone of how much fun the game can really be. 

(Top) e 'trotters pose e TV crews during a short time out. (Above) "Sweet· Lou Dunbar drinks a Coke with a happy fan. (Below) Dunbar dances with a member of the audience Thursday 

Friday, March 6,1992 
Wrestlers expected to score big at Regionals 

ByJIMVOGL Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team wiJJ compete In the NCAA West Regionals on Saturday at Cedar Falls Iowa. 
"It's a possible two team race," said Irish coach Fran McCann. 
A balanced Notre Dame squad (6-5 in dual meets) and host Northern Iowa (ranked tenth) would appear to be head and shoulders above the rest. Northern Iowa lost to fifteenth-ranked Purdue, a team that narrowly escaped a 19-18 win over ND a week ago. 
The NCAA rinals, held March 19-21, will take 20 wrestlers from each region. First-place finishers receive automatic bids, while about 90,percent of second-place finishers will qualify. 
The other spots could be filled by a third wrestler in a particularly strong level. In the West region, McCann sees 118 as the weakest, while 142 and 158 have more depth. Irish junior Jamie Boyd (16-6­
2) could sneak in at 142 with a solid performance, while Emil Soehnlen (13-14-1) would need an upset to advance at 158. 
Seniors Chuck Weaver (ranked 18th) and Marcus Gowens (13th) are both fa• vorites to return to their hometown' of Oklahoma City for the finals. Although the matches are still not set, the "pre-seeds" will likely place Chuck Weaver as the number one heavyweight. 
Marcus Gowens should be second at 126, behind Marquette's Mike Pasdo, who beat Gowens at the National Catholic Tournament and is currently ranked sixth. At 177, ND junior J.J. McGrew (11-4) wm probably get the number twQ)$eed as will senior Tom Salvino IU-11} at> 190. 
"(The seedings) are based 
upon who you've competed 
against, who you've beaten," 
explained McCann. "The first 
criteria for seed is head-ttl· 
head compe HM: 
The rest o Irish llneup; " seeded three or four, is filled with potential. Even freshman Matt Beujon, unseeded at 134, could pull 
'an upset. 
"He's beaten the numberliW 
one seed, but he lost to the 
kid who I think is going to be 
seeded number four," said 
McCann. "But he's capable of 
beating anybody in that 
weight class." 
Also, Soehnlen lost to the 
number one seed by only one ·•• 
point. 
"Going into this tournament, it's such a mental thing right now," explained McCann. "The teams that are usually successful are the ones finishing strong. 1 feel really 
good because we. finished the season strong." 
The team hopes to ride the momentum of a successful season's end and have a good week at practice; 
"It's a lc:>qg ~~.ason, it's grueling sea5();J1tit's. a tou 
season, and we're really 
healthy, and mentally we're in · good shape,.. said McCann. 
"I'm looking forward to it and I know the seniors are. All of them have a goodshot atthe;, nationals, an~ for some o~ them, it will tie their flrst time." 

The Observer page 13 
Women's tennis dumps Northwestern 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
They needed this one badly. 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team knocked off Northwestern 6-3 to snap a three match losing streak and get some momentum as they head into a tough week of ac­tion. 
The Irish took five of six sin­gles matches and cruised the rest of the way as they climbed back to the .500 mark at 4-4. 
Sophomore Terri Vitale was the only loser in singles action, falling to the Wildcats Joanna Feria. 
"Terri had a tough, though match," commented Irish coach Jay Louderback. "She was a hard girl to play because she got to every ball and never seemed to make a mistake." 
The rest of the singles matches went Notre Dame's way, however. Melissa Harris, Laura Schwab, Christy Faustman, Lisa Tholen and Ann Bradshaw all posted wins to give the Irish a lead they would never relinquish. 
With wins in the first two doubles matches, the Wildcats tried to claw their way back, but even a sweep of all three matches wouldn't have been enough to overcome the early Irish lead. 
Louderback shuffled Notre Dame's doubles lineups and he believes that the new combina­tions will pay off in the future. 
"We switched the doubles teams and I think the combina­tions will be alright," he com­
mented. 
They worked well enough against the Wildcats. Although the teams of Faustman and Tholen and Eniko Bende and Schwab lost their matches, Katie Clark and Kristy Doran were able to knock off Nortwestern's Amy Heath and garded Tennessee and Joanna Feria in the final match Kentucky, the Irish are eager to to give the Irish the final 6-3 knock off a top-ranked team. margin. "Indiana will be a good match 


"We needed a win, for us, H Louderback noted. Louderback said. "We've been "They'll probably be ranked so close all year, it's good to get number 10 or 11 in the next 
a win over a good team." poll and we've been playing Another good team is on the well. We have nothing to lose way this Saturday. against them, so we're just go· 
Indiana visits on Saturday, ing to battle hard." giving the Irish another chance The Irish also face a tough to show off against one of the spring break schedule, which nation's best teams. sends them south to Clemson 
After losses to highly-re-and South Carolina next week. 
Men's tennis team streaks into HEB tourney 
ByROLANDODEAGU~R 
Sports Writer 
Like large numbers of other Notre Dame students, the tenth­ranked Irish men's tennis team will head to the Gulf of Mexico this weekend. 
But rather than partying, 
coach Bob Bayliss' sq~ad will be playing tennis, while enjoy­ing the spring weather of southern Texas. 
The H.E.B. College Championships in Corpus Christi, Texas will mark the be­ginning of Notre Dame's out­door season. With his squad 
ADDITIONAL SuMMER ScHOOL CouRSE 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 1 I 1 1 1 
Creative Writing Fiction 
ENGL 301W:01 1;30-2:30 MTWTF 
I w. O'ROURKE I 

~ Aworkshop devoted to the short-and shorter-fonns of fiction writing. There will be assignments early on to produce aflow ofwork; then one longer story and its rewrite will be required. Ananthologyofshortfictionwillbeused. 
DART CALL #0613 
seeded first in the 16-team tourney, Bayliss is wary of the team's position as favorites. 
"These teams are putting a target on us now," said Bayliss, whose team is 8-1 in dual match play this season. "But wins over a few top-20 teams would really solidify our rank­ing." 
The Irish face Florida State today in first-round action. If the Irish can defeat the Seminoles, the team will move on to play either Texas A&M or Colorado. But the Irish are not looking ahead to the Aggies, who are one of the top teams in the Southwest Conference, or the Buffaloes, whom Notre Dame crushed in dual-match play in early February. 
"We just have to take these matches one at a time," said Bayliss. "We don't know who we're going to play, so we really can't look ahead." 
Notre Dame probably 
~ ___..Ga ~ ,..,_.~A~ Chinese-American 
~~ ._1 n-Z::.n 1 Restaurant & 'UA'L Cocktail Lounge 
'~" r1~ Authentic Szechuan Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Ll~nches starting at ..... $3.95 Drnners starting at ..... $5.95 
Voted Best Banquet rooms available for up to 200 Oriental Restaurant 130 Dixie WayS., South Bend in Mit'hiana by (next to Randall's Inn) Michiana Now 

shouldn't look to the second round. Though the Irish have been stellar throughout the in­door season, the match marks the team's first outdoor compe­tition of 1992. 
"These warm days have really been a godsend," said Bayliss. "We are very lucky to have got­ten a chance to play outdoors. 
"When you play outside, you realize that the ball really moves around on you a lot more than it does indoors," he said. "Though it's tough for the spectator to see, the movement is very noticeable for the player." 
David DiLucia, Notre Dame's number-one singles player, re­turns to action for the Irish after missing last week's com­petition with a slight groin pull. The senior, ranked second na­tionally, practiced this week and should be a factor in Corpus Christi. 
"He (DiLucia) was running hard for balls on Wednesday," said Bayliss. "He has gotten better every day." 
The Irish have reason to be nostalgic about this tourna­ment. The team's performance at the H.E.B. Championships has been a stepping stone for the Irish program in recent years. 
Two seasons ago, the Irish defeated perennial power Texas Christian, but were defeated in second-round play by Pepperdine. But the team came back to down Duke, which held a top-twenty ranking. In 1991. however, Bayliss' team suffered •· a setback. 
"Last year, we were worse than awful," said Bayliss. "We played Alabama in our first outdoor match of the season, and it was ugly. The next day we played Florida, and lost again. Hopefully, we can change that pattern." 

a • 1~ ~ • J 

page 14 The Observer Friday, March 6,1992 
Irish baseball travels, to Louisville for Big Four Classic 

By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 
Daytona ... South Padre... Lauderdale ... Louisville ... Seattle. Members of the Notre Dame community will be trekking to cities like these for spring break. 
If the last two don't sound like typical vacation spots to you, talk to the Notre Dame baseball team because that's where the Irish will spend their break. 
This weekend, the Irish are playing in the Big Four Classic in Louisville, Kentucky. On Friday, Notre Dame ( 4-0) faces Louisville (4-4) for the first time. Saturday's meeting with Kentucky (7 -2) will also be an­other first, but the Indiana game represents a series of 62 games with the Irish holding a 33-29 advantage. Last time the teams met was for a two-game series in 1989 which the Hoosiers and the Irish split. 
Louisville will provide a formidable foe with its powerful offensive lineup. The Cardinals are averaging nine runs a game and have already notched 14 round trippers. Louisville has proven it can hit homeruns in the past, leading the NCAA in that category last year with 
125. Left Fielder Glenn Meyers is leading the team offensively with a .444 batting average, 14 HBis, and four homers. The Irish better not forget about the Cardinals once they are on base because Louisville has stolen t~O bases so far this year almost equaling last year's season total of35. 
Battling the Cardinal lineup will be a proven Notre Dame pitching staff. Junior Chris Michalak is the probable starter for the Louisville game. The lefty (0.00 EHA) is 1-0 with a win over Army in the season opener. Slated to start against the Wildcats is freshman Craig 

Chris Michalak 
Allen who made his collegiate debut versus Army pitching four innings and allowing six hits and three earned runs. Junior pitching ace Pat Leahy will face Indiana with a 1-0 record and a 0.00 ERA. Leahy shut out Me.mphis State last weekend. For the championship game on Sunday, junior AI Walania (1-0, 13.50 EHA) will be on the hill if the Irish ad­vance to the finals. 

Kentucky has only lost two games this season with both coming against teams ranked in Collegiate Baseball's top-25. Number 13 North Carolina State and number 12 South Alabama have beaten the Wildcats already this season. Kentucky is led catcher Billy Thompson batting .448 with three doubles in 1992. The rest of the Wildcats have a com­bined batting average of .311. Leading pitcher for Kentucky is junior Mark Thompson (3-0, 
1.08 EHA) while the remainder of the staff has a 2.48 EHA. 
After the first four game of the season, Notre Dame boasts five batters hitting over .300. Leahy leads the team at .600 with senior Joe Binkiewicz (.357, 3 Hllls), senior Cory Mee (.333, 4 HB!s), junior Eric Danapilis (.333, 4 HBis), and junior Dan Bautch (.333) not far behind. 
Indiana has been an offensive suprise so far this season scor­ing 83 runs in the first four games and hitting .487 collec­tively. In the most recent series with the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Indiana hitters knocked 11 balls out of the park while batting an im­pressive .491. Hoosier pitchers have also been impressive in the opening games of the season. Freshman Scott Mudd notched the win in a 25-5 blow out ofUWM. 
Defensively, the Irish bring a solid slate to Louisville. In the infield, the probable starters will be Binkiewicz (1 B), sopho­more Greg Layson and fresh­man Hobby Birk (2B), senior Craig Counsell (SS), Mee (3B), and either freshman Bob Lisanti or sophomore Matt Haas will be behind the plate. In the outfield, probable starters will be freshman Steve Verduzco in left, Bautch in center, and Danapalis in right. 
Ellis to compete in Dunk Contest 
Special to the Observer 

For the first time in women's college basketball history, eight of the best senior players in the country will compete in a three-point shooting contest as part of the Fourth Annual College Basketball Slam Dunk and Three-Point Shooting Championship to be held Sunday, April 5 at University of Minnesota's Williams Arena. The event will also include the traditional Men's Slam Dunk and Three-Point Shooting Contests. 
This championship is the 
only sports program where the viewers will actually determine the Slam Dunk champion. A panel of on-site judges will narrow the eight Slam Dunk contestants to two. During the Men's and Women's Three-Point Shooting Championships, viewers will vote for one of the two Slam Dunk finalists by calling a special telephone number. The winner will be announced at the end of the broadcast. 
Shooting in the Men's Three­Point Championship will bre Christian Laettner of Duke; Todd Day and Lee Mayberry of Arkansas; Tony Bennett of Wisconsin-Green Bay; Walt Williams of Maryland and Tom Gugliotta of North Carolina State. 
The Slam Dunkers participating this year include Notre Dame's LaPhonso Ellis; Wyoming's Reginald Slater and Everick Sullivan of Louisville. 
The women competing in their Three-Point Contest in­clude Lynda Kukla of Valparaiso; Julie Jones of Hichmond; Kim Gilchrist of Mississippi and Wendy Davis of Connecticut. 

Villanova next test for Irish lacrosse 
Observer Staff Report 

The Notre Dame lacrosse team heads to Pennsylvania for Saturday's Lacrosse Classic to face Villanova. 
The Irish will look to notch their second win of the season, the 11rst being a 23-4 victory over St. Bonaventure. 
Standing in the way of an Irish win will be both a solid Villanova squad, and history. The Irish have lost the past three years to the Wildcats, and will be facing a team consid­ered one of the nation's finest. 
Villanova topped Notre Dame 15-9 last season behind Hick Bontatibus' three goals and three assists. He will again be the centerpiece of the Wildcat attack, but he will be aided by the play of Sean Haggerty and Jason Foote. 
HOOPS 
continued from page 16 
which is not good news for the Irish who have had trouble against Midwestern Collegiate Conference teams all year. 
"If you look at their record and look what they've done and look at their margins, they (the Purple Aces) definitely are one of the top teams in the country. They have an outstanding record in a very, very difficult conference," said MacLeod. 
Currently, Evansville is at the top of the MCC ranks and boasts the MCC's leading scorer. In addition, Notre Dame beat Loyola by seven here while Evansville trounced the Ramblers by 23 at Loyola. 

Mike Sullivan 
The Irish will counter with a defense led by Ed Lamb, who totalled eight ground balls in the win over St. Bonaventurra. 
Evansville also came within eight against Arizona at Arizona. 
"Both of the games will be battles, but there hasn't bel'n an easy one yet," said MacLeod. 
Goalies Chris Parent and Ryan Jewell split time in the season opener, and both looked im­pressive. The defense must con­tinue its strong play against Villanova, a team which scored eleven goals in its season open­ing win over Michigan State. 
Senior Mike Sullivan and sophomore Handy Colley will head the Irish offensive attack. The pair accounted for seven of the goals in the St. Bonaventure game, and tallied a combined eight assists. 
Notre Dame coach Kevin Corrigan feels his team has the talent to beat the Wildcats. 
"Villanova is a very good team, and we have not beaten them in three years," said Corrigan. "They're a top-20 
caliber team and  we are ca­ 
pable of winning.  It's time to  
step up and do it."  

"These two games will get our attention. Our guys know they are in for a very difficult game Saturday and a very difficult game Monday. Both of these teams are tremendous teams." 
u[X]rn LZ©CBCBg)vrn~ o~ ©~ 

HAPPY 21st WE LOVE YOU! 
rn LL©©~rng 
THE TRIBE 

Irish hockey visits balmy Alaska for spring break 
Observer Staff Report 

The Notre Dame hockey team travels to the icy city of Fairbanks, Alaska this weekend to participate in the NCAA Division I Independent Tournament. 
It's a sort of homecoming for Irish coach Hie Schafer. Schafer left as an assistant coach at Notre Dame in 1980, to become the founder and head coach of the Alaska-Fairbanks hockey program. Schafer built the Nanooks up, and had them competing with the nation's best squads. In the 1984-85 season, Schafer's squad upset Princeton, Ohio State, and beat Notre Dame twice. 
This trip will pit Schafer's Irish (11-17-1) against his old squad in the opening matchup. The winner will play the Alaska-Anchorage-Air Force victor in the finals on Saturday. 
Alaska-Anchorage has been ranked as high as fifth in the country this season, but has suffered a recent slump. The Seawolves, nonetheless, have com piled an impressive 19-7-1 record this season. 
It was Alaska-Anchorage who knocked Notre Dame out of the tourney last year. The Seawolves whipped the Irish 10-2 in the finals, and headed off for the NCAA tournament. 
To get to the Seawolves, the Irish beat Alaska-Fairbanks in a thriller. Winger Lou Zadra scored twice to lead Notre Dame to a 4-3 win over the Nanooks. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•Sportsbriefs 
are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit your brief, your name, your telephone number, and the dates the brief is to run. 

•The 
Observer is looking for Saint Mary's sports writers. Anyone interested in covering Saint Mary's sports for The Observer should contact the Saint Mary's Sports Editor, Nicole McGrath, at The Observer office or at 284-5415. 

•Off 
Campus Lacrosse is looking for new players. Anyone interested in playing should contact Jim Mahoney as soon as possible at 289-7736. 

•ND/SMC 
Women's Lacrosse is starting practice on Wednesday, March 18. Practice will run Sundays through Fridays from 4-6 pm and will be held outside next to the Angela Athletic Facility at Saint Mary's. All new members welcome. Any questions, call Jennifer at 284-5341. 



!PG·BJ~ 

Tuw~ & tuu~iE~, $3.50 
All Shows ----.......

2340 N. Hickory Rd. • 259-9090 Before 6 pm
::;($,,!Dill fArn,~.,~,rht 8Riof 
Sa~un 12:30 2:45 5:00 7:30 9:15 Sal/Sun 2:00 4:45 7:15 9:15 
MY COUSIN 
VINNY 
Sl!IJllAK Frl 7:00 


... 
The Observer 
15 
By GARY LARSON 
-

Calvin and Hobbes by Bill Watterson 
l'VT ON SOt.\t.. ~\~ICE. (L0\\1£S AND LET's GO mR A STROI..L! 


God designs the great white shark 

ACROSS 1 Amulet 6 Glass bottle 11 Skull 13 Station 15 Emit rays 16 Making sense 17 Tally 18 Libraries and banks 20 >lood sorrel 21 -gin23 Item for Julia Child 24 Type of cheese 25 Prefix for gram or graph 27 "A Majority of -" 28 La Scala offering 29 Roasting pin 31 >li ths tands 33 Accelerate 34 Sot's ailment, for  47 Actor Jannings48 Arose 50 Spanish river 51 Records, for short 52 Graduates 54 Storage place 55 Adding machine, for one 57 Art product 59 Improve in appearance 60 Puts a picture upagain 61 French legislativebody 62 Johnny Mercer's subject DOWN 1 Baby beds 2 Food fish 3 B 1 ack cuckoo  10 Afternoon server (2 wds.) 11 1929 occurrence 12 Adviser 13 Ingenious 14 Relatives of the camel 19 -Corleone 22 Everlasting 24 Incident 26 Buck­28 Rome's ancient port 30 "All About -" 32 Mr. Byrnes 35 Refines metal 36 Majorette's items 37 Barley's beards 38 Tennis play 39 Presser 40 Labeling 41 Hot -, Arkansas 44 Like Caesar (abbr.)46 Ice device  
short 35 >lrench 39 Morons 42 Units of vense measurement 43 Bungle 45 Accustom  4 Money of Iran 5 Muffles 6 Task 7 Joplin pieces 8 Prefix for cycle 9 Works with secret messages  48 Driving hazard 49 Tropical fruit 52 Calgary's province (abbr.)53 Reverberate 56 Scottish tree 58 Chinese dynasty  

JAYHOSUJI 
-· 
FRIDAY 
7:30 pm. Folk Dancing. Club House, SMC. 
·-NOTRE DAME 
Cheese Lasagna Vegetable Egg Rolls Waffles Broiled Orange Roughy 
SAINT MARY'S 
Potato Pancakes Perch Manicotti 


SUB wishes you 
a safe and fun-filled 
Spring Break!! 



Sports 

page 16 

NICOLE McGRATH 
And Now a Word From ... 
Spring sports underway at Saint Mary's 
Welcome to the sports shop. 
Sports this spring at Saint Mary's should prove to be filled with performances that will leave fans' jaws gaping. 
Take a look at some of the tennis players who will be taking a shot at the Saint Mary's llall of Fame. This hall will not be filled with trophies. It will be filled with never before seen sports moments provided by the Belles. 
A shoe-in for the tennis showcase, Ellen Mayer will shine if she lives up to last year's games in her senior year. 
Mayer has played in the top-three spol<> at Saint Mary's all four years of her tennis career. A'i co-captain, Mayer is ranked #35 in Division III singles, a division which includes over 230 teams. 
Never before has Saint Mary's had a woman nationally-ranked in the singles category. 
Not to be overlooked, Marie Koscielski will be joining Mayer this year as her co-captain and doubles cohort. Koscielski has also played in the top-three spots her four years at Saint Mary's. 
"Marie is what I call a classic tennis player," said SMC tennis coach Dr. Jo-Ann Nester. "Ellen has had everything fall in place for her games." 
Teammate Natalie Kloepfer describes the exciting duo as great friends who complement each other on the court. While Koscielski is seen as "quick as a bullet," Mayer steps onto the court looking deceptively mellow. But it soon dawns on opposing players how dominating Mayer truly is. 
"We will be really strong if we stay healthy," Dr. Nester said about the upcoming season, but the Belles' success will also need boosting from the fans. 
She stressed that students could show their support by coming out for a couple of matches. 
After all, what good is a sports hall of fame is nobody comes to ooh and aah the prized "trophies" that Saint Mary's showcases? 
The tennis team's season starts out at Hilton Head Island, South Carolina. 
They will be playing Sunday March 8th Guilford College at 8 a.m., Monday March 9th Bryn Mawr College at noon and Ursinus College at 7 p.m. 
They then go on to play Tuesday March 1Oth the University of Evansville at 8 a.m., Wednesday March 11th Barton College at 4 
p.m. and Thursday March 12th Swarthmore College at 8 a.m. ( Not all of us get to sleep in on Spring Break.) 
Finally the team will wrap up with a game against Haverford College at 8 a.m.; as well as another game against a team just added to the contest. 
The tnnnis team "raises their rackets" at Saint Mary's beginning on March 21st against Albion College at 3 p.m. • 
And you thought that only the major leagues had their exhibition games down in Florida'? Saint Mary's softball team will be heading to Fort Myers, Florida to participate in a tourney including Aquinas College, Bryant College, North Woods Institute, Marion College, Gannon College and Hockford College. Their first home game is on March 20th against Butler. 

INSIDE SPORTS Wrestlers open tourney action see page 13 
Hockey travels to Alaska see page 14 
Globetrotters visit JACC see page 12 

L---------------------~-=----------~ 
Friday, March 6,1992 

lris~h basketball seek NCAA bids Blue! Demons, Purple Aces await Irish invasion· 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 
This is it. 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team is down to the wire. Two games' remain on the schedule, DePaul and Evansville, both are over break and both are away. The Irish (14-12) meet the Blue Demons on Saturday in Chicago and take on the Purple Aces on Monday, March 9. 
In order for Notre Dame to get the tournament bid that everyone had been clamoring about recently, the Irish must have a successful weekend. 
"We have to have success," said Notre Dame coach John Macleod at a press conference yesterday. "I don't know whether we will need to win both games or if a split will do it. If we're 14-14, that's probably not going to help our chances. I don't think the NCAA selection team takes a team at .500." 
The Blun Demons were defeated 74-69 in their last effort against Notre Dame on January 29. Since that game, DePaul has played flawless basketball going undefeated until Marquette beat them last week. With senior forward David Booth and junior forward Curtis Price back from injuries, the DePaul lineup is one to reckon with. Also, freshman Howard Nathan has been a suprise for the Blue Demons. 
"I think the DePaul that we will see Saturday night will be the DePaul that beat Florida State, the DePaul 


that has been on a tremendous tear since the 29th of The Observer/Andrew McCloskey January," said Macleod. "He (Nathan) is really Keith!o~ershootsoveraMichigandefender. Thes~niorcenterwill explosive. I've been watching him since the last time play h1s fmal regular season game Monday at Evansville. 
we played and he's really putting up some numbers. The rivalry between DePaul and Notre Dame has been intense Booth is the kind of guy who can score just about any over the year. This will be the 85th meeting of these teams with time he w~mts. If it's not there, he can make it (a play Notre Dame leading the series 47-37, but the Blue Demons have for himself). Not everyone can do that. won four of the last six contests. · 
"Defensively, the entire DePaul team causes all kinds The last game of the season is against Evansville on Monday. of problems for us. I remember the last time we played The game could prove very important if the Irish Jose to DePaul them, we had a difficult time running our offense." see HOOPS/page 14 
Wonnen close season against Old Dominion 
By RENE FERRAN conference's first-ever automatic bid to the NCAA's. Associate Sports Editor "We have the same feeling going into the (MCC) tournament as last year," said sophomore Sherri Orlosky, "but I think this year, 
Amazin1~ly enough, the Notre Dame women's we'll be more focused and intense, knowing we can get an basketball team finds itself in a better position this automatic bid." year than last year for an NCAA bid. But first, Notre Dame (11-15, 8-4) closes out its regular season 
In 1991, the Irish entered the last week of the season tomorrow night at Old Dominion (15-10). This is the fifth with a 20-!i record, the 22nd position in the Associated meeting in the series, with the Monarchs holding a 3-1 edge. Press rdnkings, and yet no guarantees for a berth in However, that one Irish victory came last year, as they held off the 48-tearn NCAA tournament. a late Old Dominion rally to pull out a 70-58 victory. 
And when Notre Dame was upset by Dayton in the The Monarchs return three starters from last season, in­next-to-last game of the regular season, its dreams of a eluding the team's leading scorer and rebounder, sophomore bid were effectively shattered. Celeste Hill (19.6 ppg, 10.2 rpg, 3.5 steals). Hill is joined in the 
But this season, when the Irish will have to win their frontcourt by juniors Michele Beynolds (6.8, 3.7) and Stephanie last four games just to reach the .500 mark overall, Gilmore (6.4, 5.8). they know that such a run will sweep them into the big The starting backcourt is comprised of junior Pam lluntley dance. (10.3, 3.6, .390 three-point shooting) and sophomore Deanna 
With three victories at the MCC Tournament next Vander Plas (8.7, 1.8). 

weekend in Cincinnati, Notre Dame will ca ture the After the Irish return from Norfolk, Va., they will have l"ive days to prepare for the first round of the MCC Championships. Their first round opponent was unknown at press time, although as the number-lwei s1~ed, they will face either Dotroit Mnrcy or Evansville. 
. 
Notre Dame swept the season series from both the Titans (86-70 in Detroit; 66-58 at the ACC) and thn Aces (78-62 at ND; 79-65 in Evansville). Senior Margaret Nowlin (16.6 ppg, 9.0 rpg) led the Irish in scoring in both games against Evansville and their first meeting against Detroit. 
Orlosky (7.8 ppg) scored 20 points to lead Notre Dame in its eight-point victory two weeks ago over the Titans. Orlosky has come on strong of late for the Irish, averaging more than 10 points per game and shooting 56 percent from the field in their last six
iX ,. , 
games. 
Only top-seed Xavier and Notre Dame have clinched their seedings at the MCC tournev. The rest of 

The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz the seedings will b.e determined Poin~ ~uard Kara Leary drives pastfa BhutleMrCdCefender. She whill_ lheabed t~e Irish againkst dO!d after this weekend's action. 
Dom1n1on on Saturday as a tune up or t e tournament, w 1c g~ns next wee en 1n Cincinnati. 





