~-­
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 17 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Professors analyze Clinton's address 
By BECKY BARNES Assistant News Editor 
Democratic presidential can­didate Gov. Bill Clinton used his speech at Notre Dame Friday to initiate discussion of moral is­sues in a way that would appeal to Catholic voters, according to two Notre Dame professors. 
Clinton "clearly wanted to re­shape the discussion of values, offer his perspective on the subject and use Notre Dame as the place to begin that new dis­cussion,~ said Robert Schmuhl, acting chairman of the Ameri­can studies department. 
"This was a speech for Catholics across the country us­ing Notre Dame as a platform for it," said David Leege, gov­ernment professor. 
In previous speeches, Clinton has focused largely on eco­nomic issues. This speech was an attempt to "place his eco­nomic program in a context consistent with Catholic moral philosophy," Leege said. 
Many blue collar workers are ethnic Catholics, and Leege ex­pects to see Clinton appealing to these voters in the future with visits to obviously Catholic settings such as social service agencies and universities. He called the speech the kick-off of Clinton's "Catholic campaign" and compared it to Bush's "evangelical campaign." 
Clinton's speech also made an appeal to "Reagan Democrats," democrats who began voting republican during the Reagan years, said Schmuhl. Many of these "Reagan Democrats" are Catholic, and Clinton sees them as a vital constituency, he said. 
Leege called the speech an "appeal to the same Catholic values that stress that virtue is found in community service." Clinton mentioned several pro­grams of Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns (CSC) and described his plan to provide college loans that students would repay by performing community service. 
Father Don McNeill, director of the esc. said that he sent the Clinton campaign information about the Center and the work it does prior to the governor's visit because Clinton "wanted to understand (the mission of the CSC) better." 
see REACTION/page 4 

Senate reviews statement 
By KENYA JOHNSON News Writer 
A subcommittee of the Mis­sions, Opportunity, and Chal­lenges of the Colloquy for the Year 2000 presented the Mis­sion Statement of the University of Notre Dame to the Student Senate last night. 
Before writing the document, the group researched mission statements of other universities. said Kathleen Maas Weigert, Academic Coordinator of the Center for Social Concerns and member of the committee. 
The length of the statement was questioned by many sena­tors. "Frankly, students are not going to read through something this long," said Se­nator Tylor Farmer. 
Farmer also said the docu­ment tends to be redundant. 
Similarly, Senator Rich Dele­van thought the document re­flected that it was compiled by a group. "This is a committee document. It is not written by a single mind, and it reads that way. It seems to have trouble in its length cohering as a sin­gle clear statement as to where the university is going." 
Although some agreed, Stu­dent Vice President Molly O'Neill did not. "I think one of the problems before was that there was never· a clear, official mission statement. I applaud the committee on its specifica­tion because it leaves little room for interpretation. If having a coherent, clarified document means more pages, than I'd rather it be long," said O'Neill. 
Weigert also explained that the committee realizes students will not be reading the mission statement everyday. "We know that after one reading it will probably be shelved away. Our hopes are that the mission statement will be a guide for the students here. It is not only a document, but a creed that should be lived out by stu­dents," said Weigert. 
Other concerns expressed were the stress on a "research university" and the lack of emphasis on acceptance of student individuality. 

The Observer/Jake Peters

Let the meeting begin 
~e~.bers o~ the S!udent Senate discuss the Mission Statement of the University presented at last mg s meetmg. This was the Student Senate's first meeting of the year. 


71 students receive citations 
BY JULIE BARRETT Assistant News Editor 
Seventy-one students, pre­dominantly from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and area high schools, were cited Friday night at Turtle Creek and Campus View Apartments for con­tributing to the delinquency of minors and minors in con­sumption, according to Sgt. Charlie Feirrell of the St. Joseph County Police. 
Officers were called to Turtle Creek Apartments by a private security firm working at the complex to assist a female ju­venile who had passed out from alcohol intoxication, according to police reports. 
Once there, officers saw hun­dreds of young people openly drinking beer in the parking lots and surrounding area, Feirrell said. 
"The place was a madhouse," he said. "Even Ray Charles could have seen that party." 
According to Feirrell, more officers arrived at the scene and began raiding parties, making close to 35 arrests and confiscating several kegs of beer. Several people were taken to the county jail. 
Officers proceeded to Campus View Apartments around 1 a.m. where they ticketed more students for underage drinking and furnishing alcohol to mi­nors, confiscated kegs and false IDs, and disbanded parties. 
Feirrell explained that the raids are "an exercise in pre­ventive police work" to protect students and prevent them from drinking and driving or from rendering themselves defenseless to others who may take advantage of their condi­tion. 
He added that police must also respond to citizens' com­plaints about the parties. 
"If students don't cooperate with the police, then we won't cooperate with them," Feirrel said. "Rather than write tick­ets, we'll incarcerate them if that's what is needed to get our point across about underage drinking and disorderly con­duct." 
Notre Dame students Michael Wulfe and William Watson were cited for contributing to the delinquency of miriors, a class C misdemeanor which carries up to one year in prison and a maximum fine of$1,500. 
Students cited for minor con­sumption of alcohol were Ti­mothy Gilroy of Carroll Hall; Raymond Cummings and Robert Leonard of Dillon Hall; Megan Blake and Julie Hurley of Farley Hall; Michael Regan of Fisher Hall; and Brian Casey, Shawn Donovan. Greg Kar­czewski, Dennis Macklin, John Minson and James Rooney of Planner Hall. 
Also cited were Joseph Cron­ley and Chad Gardner of Grace Hall; Mamie Diskin of Howard Hall; Jill Harris and Barbara Rasch of Knott Hall; John Paulsen of Morrissey Hall; Katherine Bessiere, Jennifer Brooks and Mary Colnillo of Pasquerilla East; and Tony Buf­fomante, Brendon Heatherman, Joseph McQuade, Sean Sullivan and Timothy Walsh of St. Edward's Hall. 
Also cited were Christopher Corbett, Frank Flynn and Kevin Monahan of Stanford Hall; George Dailey, Sean Druvan, Jeffrey Haynes, Robert O'Neil of Zahm; Benjamin Horan, Michael Mulhall and Connor Murphy of Turtle Creek. 
Saint Mary's students cited were Mary Kamra of Holy Cross Hall and Mary Nicknish of LeMans Hall. 

Kauai takes steps towards normalacy after devastation of hurricane 
LIHUE, Hawaii (AP) -Troops helped keep order in neigh­borhoods devastated by Hurri­cane Iniki and officials tended to more than 7,000 people in shelters as Kauai took its first halting steps toward normality. 
Federal officials said 10,000 homes were badly damaged when Hawaii's worst storm this century blasted across the re­sort island Friday. Most of the island's 70 hotels sustained se­rious damage. 
"Wherever you look, it's heartbreak alley," said Fred Allen, who said he rode out the hurricane in his bed with a bottle of gin. "This was one hell of a storm." 
Limited phone service was restored, giving the island's 52,000 residents their first link to the outside world since the storm hit. Water was restored to about half the island, includ­ing Lihue, the largest town. But it may take more than a week to get Lihue's power plant running, officials said. 
"We're getting some things done, but every time we fix one problem another one arises," said Kauai Mayor JoAnn Yukimura. 
Crews continued the daunting task of cleaning up utility poles, trees and pieces of buildings that gave way under Iniki's sustained wind of 130 mph and gusts to 160 mph. 
The hurricane was blamed for at least three deaths, including one 80 miles southeast on Oahu, and 98 injuries. 

The Coast Guard searched between Kauai and Niihau, a small neighboring island, for two people reported aboard a sailboat that sank as Iniki hit. A 50-year-old Kauai man who also was on the boat was res­cued Saturday after clinging to an ice chest for 21 hours. 
Federal disaster officials, criticized for slow response to Hurricane Andrew, directed a round-the-clock airlift of sup­plies. More than 600 National Guard troops were on the is­land, aided by members of the other armed services. 
The USS Belleau Wood, an amphibious assault ship, was en route to Kauai with 27 five-ton trucks, many Humvees, 10 field kitchens, field showers and about 300 troops, the Navy said. 
"We're here to help as much as possible and to give people a sense that they can rebuild their lives," said Patricia Saiki, chief of the U.S. Small Business Administration and a former congresswoman from Hawaii. "It's important for people to regain some normalcy." 
Motorists waited in lines two blocks long for gas, and people lined up outside grocery stores. Those without water service bled water heaters and hot tubs for drinking water. 
Paul Lucas, a roofing contrac­tor, said the people of Kauai are survivors. 
"People know each other here. It's like family. There are a lot of homeless but they are being taken care of," Lucas said. 
One shingle-stripped rooftop had the spray-painted words, "We're OK." A spray-painted sign in front of a church de­clared, "Pray!" 
Oahu escaped the worst of the storm, with an estimated $2.5 million damage to 163 private buildings. Niihau, a privately held island 25 miles west of Kauai, sustained only minor damage, said Roy Price, direc­
see INIKI/page 4 

events, is a microcosm of the real world. Football necessitates teamwork, yet depends was refused, Orange County sheriff's spokesman Jim
NATIONAL 

on individual performance. An offensive line is 
Solomons said Sunday. Ferristhen then pulled a 12­only as strong as the least skilled lineman. Four 
gauge shotgun from a tote bag and fired three times at linemen can execute perfectly, but if one does 
a guard who fled unharmed. Two other guards were
Man parachutes off Gateway Arch 
not, the play is bust. 
taken hostage for about 10 minutes in a bathroom,
•sT. LOUIS -A parachutist jumped from the top of
The game teaches you that if you get knocked Solomons said. Ferris was under court orders to avoid 
the 630-foot-high Gateway Arch early Monday, then
on your can, you get back up and try again. If a the woman and had tried to kill himself in July after 
gathered up the chute and fled, an official said. "He
play doesn't work or the ball is dropped, you she ended their relationship of eight years, Solomons 
walked out past the aircraft warning light and just
have got to come back and just not repeat your said. 
jumped. The chute opened and he floated down and
mistake. 
landed safely," said Paul Ford of Computraffic, who was
Not every call is designed to be a game­
observing traffic with binoculars from a building near
breaking play. The outcome of almost every 
CAMPUS

the Arch. National Park Service officials said the
football game is determined by the execution o 
parachutist escaped. They said they were questioning
the three components of the game, special 
two other people who were taking pictures from the Museum establishes essay prize 
teams, offense and defense. 
ground. Ford said he didn't see how the parachutist,
In Saturday's game, no one won offensively or •NOTRE DAME-The Snite Museum of Art has estab­
which he believes was a man, ascended. "We've had
defensively and special teams play was a toss lished a new Freshman Essay Prize to be offered to 
some callers who said the guy walked up the Arch us­
up, but Michigan did manage a blocked kick. 
freshman writers by the museum and to be jointly
ing suction cups, but we didn't see that," he said. 
I, as many, felt strangely incomplete after the 
administered by the museum and the Freshman game. I have even heard some say that "they" 
Writing Program, according to Museum Director Dean rather would have lost than tied. "They" were 
Porter. The awards of $125, $75 and $50 will be given not the ones that played however. 
Man kills himself at Disney World to freshmen who use a work of art in the Snite Museum As a member of a prep team that went 5-13 in 
as the subject of their essay. Entries for the contest
•LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. -The former
high school, I can't see how anyone would 
should be submitted to Freshman Writing or Seminar 
boyfriend of a Walt Disney World employee fired a
rather have lost, unless they don't know what teachers by the end of the fall semester. The prizes will 
shotgun at guards and briefly took two hostages before 
they are talking about. 
be given at the annual First Year of Studies 
he killed himself inside Epcot Center. Allen Ferris
There is no reason to boo the outcome of the Convocation in February. 
confronted a guard at the park after closing Saturday
game. It is inexcusable to boo any member o night and demanded to see his former girlfriend, but he
either team, on account of the tremendous effort all the players put forth. 
Each player has devoted countless hours over the past several years of their lives for the entertainment of the fans. It is an insult to boo 
OF INTEREST any of them, whether they drop a pass or lose the handle. 
•Engineering industry applications are due today Mistakes will happen. Coach Holtz always 
•wednesday Lunch Fasters will meet tomorrow at
at the Engineering Student Center. 
12:15 p.m. in the chapel at the Center for Social
talks about adversity and its place in life and on the football field. We must do our best to deal 
•spanish Club will have a general meeting tonight at Concerns for informal prayer and discussion about 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. 
world hunger. We will be meeting every Wednesdaywith it. 
until finals. 

Every athletic team has class, some less so 
•Notre Dame Ski Team/Club will have an informa­
than others, but to degrade the efforts of the •Michigan State ticket lottery registration is today at
tional meeting today in room 127 Nieuwland Science 
men and women in athletics at any college 
3 p.m in Stepan Center. 10 required. 
Hall at 8 p.m. Anyone interested in the Christmas trip to 
division level, and especially at the high school 
Aspen/Snowmass, Colorado and racing on the team in 
or little league level is inexcusable. 
•Saint Mary's College Democrats is sponsoring a After all, Wolverine fans love their children 
the opening season must attend. Call Chris at 273-2958 
voter registration drive today through Thursday. Stu­
for more information. too. 
dents may register at the dining hall today from 4:30 
The views expressed in Inside Column are 
•wsND-FM will feature Pete Pultorak tonight. Tune p.m. to 6 p.m., Wednesday 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., and 
Thursday 4:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. 
those ofthe author and not necessarily those of 
in to 88.9, WSND-FM at midnight to hear the Nocturne 
Nightflight. Call Pete at 239-7342 with any requests. 
The Observer. 
Today's Staff 

MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

News Production Bevin Kovalik Kathy Fong Becky Barnes Jordon Maggio 
Sports Systems Jim Vogl Harry Zembillas 
Scoreboard Accent Jonathan Jensen Mara Divis Sarah Doran Terry Edwards 
YESTERDAY•s TRADING September 14 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 250,902,746 +2.93 to 233.73 S&P COMPOSITE +5.69 to 425.27 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +70.52 to 3,376.22
UNCHANGED 489 

GOLD +55.90 to 5347.30 oz 
SILVER +50.092 to $3.771 oz 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
•In 1776: British forces occupied New York City during the American Revolution. •*n 1887: The city of Philadelphia launched a three-day celebration of the 1OOth anniversary of the Constitution of the 
United States. 

•In 
1935: The Nuremberg Laws deprived German Jews of 

their citizenship and made the swastika the official symbol of Nazi Germany. 

•In 
1949: "The Lone Ranger," based on the radio show of the same name, made its television debut on ABC with Clayton Moore as the masked hero and Jay Silverheels as Tonto. 



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------­
Tuesday, September 15, 1992 The Observer page 3 

Three killed in Serbian fire 
SARAJEVO. Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -Mortar shells slammed into downtown streets Monday despite U.N. supervision of the heavy Serb weaponry ringing Sarajevo. At least three people were killed and 32 wounded. 
Meanwhile, the leader of Serb rebels in Bosnia joined the beleaguered republic's presi­dent in threatening to boycott peace talks this week in Geneva. 
Radovan Karadzic, leader of Bosnia's Serb rebels who have seized some two-thirds of Bosnian territory, warned that he would boycott the Geneva talks if the international com­munity imposed a total flight ban on Serbian military flights in Bosnian airspace. 
Karadzic's warning came after Alija Izetbegovic, Bosnia's Muslim president, also threat­ened to stay away from Geneva because of continuing Serb at­tacks by artillery, tanks and warplanes. 
Bosnian government defense officials blamed Serb gunners in the hills for shelling Sarajevo, where residents had ventured onto the streets after a three­day lull in fighting. 
The officials claimed some of the rounds came from 120mm mortars, which Serb forces were to have placed under U.N. monitoring as of Saturday. 
There was no immediate in­dependent confirmation of who was responsible for the shelling. Serb leaders and some U.N. 
The Castle &Co. Is Your New Wolf Tanning Center 
featuring: 
• 
New Wolf Tanning Beds • Luxurious, Clean Private Rooms 

• 
Facial Tanners • Stereo & Body Cooling With Every Lounge. 


272-0312 


The Castle 

0 Are 18 or older 

0 Hold a valid driver's lii.EI!Se 
0 Have an insured automobile 
0 Have agood driving nn~rd 
0 Are friendly, enthusiastic & energetic 

officials have accused the Muslim-led government forces of shelling their own positions in the past to win sympathy. 
Vesna Boban-Samarzic was on her way to work when she was felled by a mortar round, taking shrapnel in both legs. 
"I felt the pain and rolled un­der a parked car," she said as she arrived at the downtown military hospital. "Then ... an­other explosion and more pain." 
At least three people died en route to the military hospital, doctors said. Health officials said 32 wounded people arrived 
· at three main Sarajevo hospitals in a 90-minute time span. More than 10,000 people have been killed since Bosnia's majority Muslims and Croats voted on Feb. 29 for indepen­dence from Yugoslavia, spark­ing rebellion by the republic's Serbs. European Community foreign ministers agreed Saturday to support a U.S. proposal to im­pose a "no-fly" zone over Bosnia, following the suspected downing of an Italian relief plane to Sarajevo Sept. 3 that killed all four crew members. A statement by the govern­ment of the self-proclaimed Bosnian Serb Republic said that if Serb planes were completely grounded, Karadzic would "completely withdraw from the talks," because that "would disrupt the strategic balance in Bosnia-Herzegovina." 

We offer you: 
0Greatpay
0 F1exible hours 

0 Free meal<; & unifonns 
(a Awards for sate driving
0 Oean & friendly workplare
0 Challenging. fun work 
0 Pay increases !wire ayear
0 Opportunity to pun:ha-;e PepsiC'n ~iock 
0 Child care discount~ 
0 Credit union 

0 Great career opportunities
0 Reimbursement allowance r;or I"" ,turl
0 Paid 1·acation• 
0 Medicaltife benefits• 

0 SharePuwer buying nptimt~' 
• Not r.f!,~irc Ji~ du_,. ~~r t•mpln_mlf'nl 
YOU DO BELONG W!TH THE BEST! 
Karadzic. in a fax over the weekend to the the British news agency Press Association, said he supported a flight ban that would protect humanitarian planes. Those flights had been flying specific corridors. 
Izetbegovic charged that warplanes were backing addi­tional tanks brought into Bosnia by the Yugoslav army to step up attacks on Bosnian towns. 
"The towns of Sarajevo, Jajce, Gorazde, Gradacac, Bosanski Brod, Mostar, Bihac and many others in Bosnia-Herzegovina are under constant attack with enormous damage and casualties among the civilian population," Radio Bosnia­Herzegovina quoted Iz{ltbegovic as saying Sunday. 
"Under such circumstances negotiations in Geneva or any other location would be of no use," he said. 
The U.N.-sponsored talks were scheduled to begin Friday. All other attempts for a peace pact among the three warring factions have failed. 
The Serbian rebel air force is estimated to have about 50 fixed-wing aircraft and heli­copters based at Banja Luka in northwestern Bosnia. The planes were left behind by the departing Yugoslav military in June, and have repeatedly been used to attack Bosnian government positions. 
Government troops and their Croatian allies have no air force and their air defenses are con­sidered rudimentary. 
Keeling to speak at Saint Mary's on AIDS prevention 
By NICOLE MCGRATH 
News Writer 
Dr. Richard Keeling, current chair of the American College Health Association's task force on HIV infection and AIDS, will speak on "Sex, Alcohol and Self-Esteem: Finding Safety" Wednesday at Saint Mary's College. 
Keeling will speak twice, first at 3 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall and again at 7 
p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
According to Saint Mary's Health Director Gloria Chelminiak, Keeling's talk will focus on students' relationships with each other. 
"We want to spread our mes­sage. not through fear. but through an understanding that women and men should feel free to ask questions concern­ing any aspect of their rela­tions. of the counseling and health services department," Chelminiak said. 
"The real work of preventing the HIV disease starts in con­necting ourselves together in a caring community," said Keel­ing in the Sept. 2 issue of "The Chronicle of Higher Education." 
When AIDS awareness was first brought to students, edu­cators tried a technical way of explaining the disease, but stu­dents were slow to respond, Chelminiak said. 
Now a new aspect of "social 
Wlzose Election? 


Direct Contact with political, agency, and 
Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Includes service and political awareness opportunities 
One credit Theolog, 

Applications Available Now at the CSC Applications Due: Tuesday, Sept. 15, 1992 
change" is being advocated by Keeling and many other pro­fessionals. 
"If we change some behav­iors, we can slow the disease by reaching out to everyone," Chelminiak said. "However, changing those attitudes will be a long process." 
Keeling spoke at Notre Dame three years ago, but few stu­dents attended the speech. More recently, as celebrities like Magic Johnson have been diagnosed HIV positive, young people are beginning to take a second look, said Chelminiak. 
The use of condoms, although forbidden by Catholicism, has been offered as a means of preventing AIDS. "I am an advocate of discussing your relationships and will answer questions about contraceptives, but I will not promote their use, said Chelminiak. "Contraceptives are not the answer to HIV pre­vention." 
Chelminiak hopes that Keel­ing's talks will trigger discus­sion. 
"I want young people to open up to each other and develop their relationships," she said. 
The programs are sponsored by the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame health services depart­ment. Local hospitals, high schools and middle schools have been invited to the dis­cussions as well as students and faculty. 


page 4 The Observer Tuesday, September 15, 1992 
ND professors receive grants Saint Mary's BOG plans 
Special to The Observer • $67,460 from the National electrical engineering, and 
fall events for students
Science Foundation for studies Biswajit Das, assistant profes­
Notre Dame received $1,037,590 in grants during July for the support of research and various programs. 
Research funds totaled $853,639, including: 
• 
$181,354 from the National Institute of Health for research on protein binding sites on ri­bonucleic acid by Paul Huber, assistant professor of chemistry and biochemistry. 

• 
$104,592 from the National Science Foundation for a calen­dar of the correspondence of Sir John Herschel by Michael Crowe, professor in the pro­gram of liberal studies, and Brother James Kevin, visiting faculty fellow in the program of liberal studies. 

• 
$88,000 from the National Science Foundation for electron transfer research by Xavier Creary, professor of chemistry and biochemistry. 

• 
$80,973 from the U.S. En­ergy Department for research in atomic physics by A. Eugene Livingston, associate professor of physics. 


Reaction 
continued from page 1 
According to McNeill, Clin­ton "based his motivation (for service) on a Judeo-Christian message on the basic dignity of 
I 
~ every human being." He is "calling to compassion based on thoughtful analysis and aca­demic reflection." 
Clinton "talked a lot about the 
I social mission of the Catholic church ... and did a good job of saying this is not just a fad but built into the fabric" of the church, McNeill said. Both professors also saw Clinton's speech as an appeal for tolerance. Clinton wanted 

Ill 

on parallel. numerical methods for initial value problems by Andrew Lumsdaine, assistant professor of computer science and engineering. 
• 
$63,321 from the National Science Foundation for food webs and nutrients research by David Lodge, associate profes­sor of biological sciences. 

• 
$55,000 from Purdue Uni­versity for fiber-tracking physics research by Randall Ruchti and Nripendra Biswas, professors of physics, and others. 

• 
$40,000 from the National Aeronautics and Space Admin­istration (NASA) Ames Research Center for static and dynamic characteristics research by Robert Nelson, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 


Awards for facilities and equipment totaled $38,380 from the National Science Foundation for an electrical engineering laboratory to be used by Robert Minniti , associ­ate professional specialist of 
·"to point out the similarity of the intolerance Catholics and southern Baptists have faced in the past ... and appeal to that side of Catholicism that has learned to be more tolerant," Leege said. 
Many members of campus and local pro-life groups at­tended Clinton's speech, but Clinton did not directly address the issue of abortion. Both Schmuhl and Leege pointed to the statements he did make about his concern with the quality of "life after birth." 
These statements and the other references to Catholic teaching were aimed "to show the breadth of Catholic moral philosophy and that it should not be diminished by focusing 
FOR JUNIOR NURSING STUDENTS 
A NURSING EXPERIENCE AT MAYO FOUNDATION HOSPITALS­ROCHESTER, MN 
Here is your opportunity to work at Mayo Medical Center for the summer. 
Summer Ill is a paid, supervised hospital work experience at Saint Marys Hospital and Rochester Methodist Hospital, both part of Mayo Medical Center in Rochester, Minnesota. 
You are eligible for Summer Ill after your junior year of a four year baccalaureate nursing program. It includes experience on medical and surgical nursing units or in operating rooms. 
Application Deadline: December 1, 1992. For more information contact: 
Mayo Medical Center 
Nursing Recruitment P.O. Box 6057 Rochester, Minnesota 55903 1-800-247-8590 
Mayo Foundation is an affirmative action and equal opportunity educator and employer. A smoke-free institution. 
We were the first to ride without training wheels. 


We were the troop that sold the most cookies. 
~ 

~-..·. 
We were the state math champs. 
2x2+{4y/3xzy,z4} =.4y2/3 
4xz-•zz We were leaders in studentgovernment. 


Now we're with Hewitt Associates...it's justnatural. 
Persistence. Detennination. The relentless pursuit to be the best has made Hewitt Associates an international leader in employee benefits and compensation consulting services. 
Why does 75% of the Fortune 500 tum to Hewitt Associates? It's because they want to work with the finn that is committed to being the premier team of consulting professionals working on the design, finance, administration and communication of their employee benefit and compensation programs. You're invited to explore consulting opportunities with Hewitt Associates. 
Intelligence. Ambition. A consistent desire to succeed. That's what's taken us this far. If you're ready to take the next step toward your professional success, come meet us: 
Tuesday, September 15th Wednesday, September16th Finance Club Career Night Science Placement Night Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center Hayes Healy Auditorium Monogram Room 7pm 7pm-9pm 
Tire next step. 

Hewitt•Associates 
Atlonla, GA; Bcdmbutu, NJ; Booton. MA; Clovclond, OH; Oallos, TX; Unmlnsltin:, II.; Newport Bu<h. CA; Rowayton. CT; W•llloat Cnek, CA; The Woodt.nds. TX 
Other new business includes the announcement of the fall semester fundraiser, the Phon­A-Thon, to be held the first two weeks in November. Founders' Day has als-o been tentatively set for October 13. 
Future goals for BOG in­clude the formation of an elec­tions revision task force. This group will consider a change in the election process, possibly moving elections to the fall semester. 
Junior Class President Beth Petrovic concluded,"This year holds the potential for many great ideas from a diverse group of women and I hope our contribution will prove positive to the Saint Mary's commu­nity". 
available Sunday by standing over buckets as they used gar­den hoses to take showers. 
Some, fed up with broken toi­lets and unable to find the school's principal and his keys, broke into a locked bathroom and recruited shelter volunteers to open the others. 
"Just get us off of here," said Anne King of San Pedro, Calif. 
The Salvation Army was providing meals for 1,500 peo­ple a day, said Capt. Art Storey. The island has plenty of cloth­ing but needed non-perishable foods, powdered milk and dia­pers, he said. 
Despite efforts to get tourists out, many lost their patience. 
''I'm disappointed they weren't prepared," said Don Klein of Van Nuys, Calif. 
sor of electrical engineering. 
Awards for instructional pro­grams totaled $96,832, includ­ing: 
•$81,832 
from the National Institutes of Health for training in retardation research taught by John Borkowski, McKenna family professor of psychology, and Thomas Whitman, profes­sor of psychology. 

• 
$10,000 from the National Association for Foreign Student Affairs (NAFSA)/Association of International Educators for fel­lowships administered by Scott Mainwaring, senior fellow in the Helen Kellogg Institute and associate professor of govern­ment and international studies. 

• 
$5,000 from the McGee Foundation for Nathan Hatch, vice president for.graduate studies and professor of history, for the McGee fellowship program in economics. 


Awards for service programs totaled $38,739 from anony­mous donors for various pro­grams of the Institute for Pas­toral and Social Ministry. 

By KATIE O'CONNOR News Writer 
Future events of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) were planned at last night's initiation prayer cere­mony. 
The first event, the annual "Party with the Plaid," will be held Purdue weekend. Saint Mary's students will receive in­vitations during the next week to tailgate with alumni before the game. 
BOG will also sponsor another tailgater the following weekend when the Irish play Stanford. Concession stands will be set up along the walk to the game, encouraging students to meet their fellow classmates. 
on one single issue," Leege said. 
Public reaction to Clinton's speech has incorporated "both sides of the story," according to Dennis Moore, director of Uni­versity Public Relations. 
Because Clinton is pro-choice, Moore said he has received some telephone calls saying the University "had no business allowing him to speak here," but the reaction has not been as severe as when pro-choice Senator Daniel Patrick Moyni­han received last year's Laetare Medal. 

lniki 
continued from page 1 
tor of State Civil Defense. 
Lihue Airport remained closed to commercial flights, but hundreds of tourists lined up for seats on interisland jets that came in loaded with sup­plies and left loaded with peo­ple. Others got out by ship. 
"We needed a vacation, but not this one," Nathan Salmon of Santa Barbara, Calif., said as he waited Sunday. 
The American Red Cross housed between 7,000 to 8,000 people in 13 shelters. 
At Koloa Elementary School, several hundred people, many of them tourists, tried to con­serve what little water was 
--~--~----~~-----------~--~-------------­
-~­

Tuesday, September 15, 1992 The Observer page 5 

-------~-----------~-------... 
page 6 The Observer Tuesday,September 15, 1992 
Iraqi Kurdish villagers India's population growing fast 

caught in Turks' conflict 
ORAH, Iraq (AP) -Tens of thousands of Iraqi Kurdish vil­lagers have been caught in the fight between Turkey and the Turkish Kurdish rebels who have sought sanctuary in northern Iraq. 
Turkish forces have shelled Kurdish villages suspected of harboring rebels of the Turkish Kurdish Labor Party, or PKK. Since August 1984, the PKK has been waging a separatist war in southeastern Turkey, which is home to half of the country's 12 million Kurds. 
Turkish officials believe two­thirds of the estimated 10,000 Turkish guerrillas are deployed outside the country's borders, mostly in Iraq. They are sus­pected of receiving arms from Baghdad. 
The rebels' forays into Turkey prompt punitive air raids and shelling by Turkey. 
The raids are supposedly against Turkish rebel bases in Iraq. 
But they have also pounded the homes Iraqi Kurds are trying to rebuild in villages destroyed by Saddam Hussein's army. 
Kurdish officials have esti­mated the death toll at more than 60 in about 40 raids since last year. 
In Orah, a Kurdish village on the Turkish border, 50 miles east of Zakho, an elderly Iraqi Kurd sought shelter from the sun under a canopy of dried branches. 
For nearly two months, he said, Turkish shells have rained down on the valley at dusk from a ridge on the border a half­mile away. 
"We send the women and children behind that rock," he said, pointing to a large boulder at the edge of tomato fields. 
Several tents had small shrapnel holes. About 50 yards away, an unexploded 120mm shell was half buried in the base of a tree. 
Orah is among some 4,000 
_ villages systematically leveled 
by the Iraqis over the past two 
decades. Now their homes are 
under fire again. 

Since being rescued by an al­
lied coalition force after Sad­
dam's army crushed their re­
bellion last year, about 750 
Iraqi Kurds have returned to 
rebuild their houses destroyed 
first in 1976 and again in 1988. 

Faisal Ramadan, a villager in 
traditional khaki tunic, baggy 
pants, checkered turban and a 
colorful sash on his waist, led 
an unsuccessful peace mission 
on Aug. 23. 

"We walked up the mountain 
with a white flag. An officer 
came with some soldiers and 
we told him that there were no 
guerrillas in the village. He 
promised to stop firing, but 
shells keep coming," he said. 

Some Iraqi Kurdish guerrillas 
said there had been at least two 
PKK camps nearby, at Haftanin 
and Nazhdur about 30 miles 
northeast of Zakho. 

Abdurrahman Omar, a local 
Iraqi guerrilla commander, said 
20 villages had come under 
attack in the region where the 
borders of Turkey, Iraq and 
Iran meet. Kemal Fouad, a 
Kurdish official, said PKK 
guerrillas hold 40 to 50 villages 
in the area and have barred 
Iraqi Kurds from returning. 

Earlier this month, Massoud 
Barzani, a Iraqi Kurdish guer­
rilla leader, announced his 
forces would oust the Turkish 
Kurdish rebels from northern 
Iraq -by force if necessary. 

"Everything has its limits and 
we are not able any more to 
endure what the PKK is doing. 
Either we must leave the area 
for the PKK, or they must leave 
it for us," Barzani said. 

Barzani, who earlier had met 
with Turkish officials in Ankara, 
apparently made the pledge in 
return for a Turkish promise to 
refrain from further military 
strikes in Iraq. 

But the attacks have already 
caused much suffering. 

Correction 
An article in Monday's Observer misquoted a portion of Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Clinton's Friday speech at Notre Dame. The quotation should have read, "We know in this room, at least, our supporters can win the cheering contest. I would hope that in this great university, we could also prevail in the civility contest." The Observer regrets the error. 
~<ouR PHOTO CPORTRAITS 
916 Erskine Plaza • South Bend. Indiana 46614 
(219) 299-0600 
Jl.vaifa6{e for 
Personal Portraits•Passports• Identification Graduation Pictures Always at a reasonable price 
Just 5 minutes from campus 
INTERESTEDINSTUDYIN SANTIAGO, CHILE ? New University of Notre Dame International Study Program 
Information Meeting with Father Tim Scully, C.S.C. 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1992 7:00pm Room 114 O'Shaughnessw 
ALL STUDENTS ARE WELCOME 
l 
NEW DELHI, India (AP) ­Population experts today criti­cized India's birth-control policy for its focus on sterilization and said the country's mushrooming population may become the world's largest in the 21st century. 
India was one of the first Third World countries to un­derstand the need to check its growth, and has had a family planning program since 1951. 
But stifling government bu­reaucracy and central planning has hampered implementation, said a study released today by the Washington-based Popula­tion Crisis Committee. 
India's estimated population of 883 million is growing about 2 percent annually, compared with the U.S. growth rate of 0.8 percent and 1.5 percent in China, which has about 1.2 bil­lion people. 
At those rates, the report said, India's population will surpass China's in the early decades of the next century. 
Although the average number of births for Indian women has fallen from six to four, the committee said India's goal of reaching two births per woman by the end of the century was unrealistic. 

The average today is 2.5 in China and 2 in the United States. 
India has stressed female sterilization because it is easier to monitor than temporary contraception methods. Also, many rural Indian women are illiterate and do not understand how to use birth control de­vices. 
Beginning 17 years ago, the government broadened its sterilization program, offering compensation to women who underwent the operation and bonuses to state officials for meeting targets. 
Widespread resentment eventually led to demonstra­tions and riots against family planning. 
It was one reason for Prime Minister Indira Gandhi's fall from power in 1977. Many politicians responded by playing down the importance of contraception. 
In recent years, the policy shifted toward other contra­ception methods, says the 60­page report. 
But sterilization targets re­main, and the field staff re­sponsible for carrying out the policy believe "that their ca­reers depend on meeting these targets," it says. 
"In some states, local-level administrators receive sub­stantial rewards for achieving specific numbers of steriliza­tions," the report continues. Those that don't meet their quotas "are threatened with stoppage of salaries and finan­cial penalties." 
Younger women who don't want to be sterilized often are unaware of other options. As a result, only 45 percent of Indian couples use contraception, far below the 72 percent of China and 7 4 percent in the United States, said the committee. 
ALUMNI

Ill 
SENIOR 

!CLUB 
THURSDAY NIGHT 
9~2 

Need we say more? 
The place to be for the "Class of '93" If you don't like crowds please don't come. 
must be 21 



Wednesday is "SUCK IT THROUGH THE STRAW NITE" 
7f((JJ!E~a-50% OFF WIEJlJJo-PENNY CUP NIGHT 8-2 A.M. $3 WITH STUDENT J.D. 
7f!HJ((JJ~~o-DOLLAR NIGHT VELCRO JUMPING COMPETITION

0 g­


1150 Mishawaka Avenue, South ena, Indiana 288-0285 
Bush defends his environmental plans: "rational and reasonable" 


·---------~---·------­
...----------~----·----------------~---------..___ --~ 
page 7 Tuesday, September 15, 1992 The Observer 

ELECTION '92 
SAN DIEGO, Calif. (AP) ­President Bush said today his environmental policies are "rational and reasonable" and accused Democrat Bill Clinton of promoting "the old command and control mentality" toward protecting natural resources. 
Speaking to 200 land devel­opers and land owners at the Penasquitos Canyon Ranch nature preserve here, Bush promised that his environmen­tal approach would strike a bal­ance between protecting re­sources and preserving jobs. 
"A strong economy and a clean environment not only can but must go hand in hand," he said. He added: "Extremism on either side is no virtue." 
The president said Clinton has had a poor record on envi­ronmental protection in Arkansas and suggested he would pursue extremist policies if he got to the White house. 
Clinton and the Democrats favor ''a philosophy that will not only cost jobs but impede ... 
environmental progress," Bush said. 
''I'll certainly match my envi­ronmental record against my opponent's," the president said. 
Responding, Clinton spokeswoman Avis Lavelle cited a 1. 3 3 million drop in manufacturing jobs nationwide over the last four years. At the same time, she said, the ad­ministration's Council on Com­petitiveness, headed by Vice President Quayle, has fought a number of environmental regu­lations. 
"This environmental presi­dent has given nothing but lip service to the environment and nothing but lip service to job creation," she said. 
The San Diego developers are concerned lest the federal gov­ernment add the gnatcatcher bird to the list of species threat­ened by land development and requiring special efforts to pre­vent its extinction. 
The gnatcatcher was pro­posed for the list of endangered species in 1991. Developers contend that listing of bird as endangered would harm the Southern California economy. 
The Interior Department in­tends to make a formal an­nouncement on the gnatcatcher this week, department spokesman Steven Goldstein said Sunday, although he sug­gested the department might call for further study, thus putting off a final decision on whether it should be added to the endangered list. 
Campaign aides concede that Bush's environmental stance is unpopular in many regions of the country, but the president is pressing the issue as a way of illustrating a broader theme closer to Americans' hearts: protecting jobs. 
Bush contends his approach strikes a proper balance be­tween protecting natural re­sources and putting jobs at risk by limiting commercial devel­opment. 
Registration blocks voting 
WASHINGTON (AP) -More Maine, Minnesota, Oregon, than a dozen states have voter Texas, Wisconsin and the Dis­registration systems that keep trict of Columbia. people out of the election pro­Few states have adopted all cess, the League of Women the measures the league rec­Voters said Monday. ommends: registration by 
"The worst states have con­mail, "motor-voter" programs fusing, cumbersome and in­that tie registration to drivers' convenient voter registration license applications and re­requirements which actually newals; registration at schools block citizens from participat­and unemployment offices; ing in our electoral system,"' and registration at said league President Becky government agencies and Cain. agencies serving the disabled. 
The league supports the Na­Mail registration is in force tional Voter Registration Act, in 28 states and the District of which would streamlines and Columbia. Some type of reform voting procedures. motor-voter registration exists President Bush vetoed the leg­in the District and 34 states. islation on the grounds that it Some of the barriers cited would invite fraud; Congress by the league include is expected to try to override restrictive hours, inconvenient the veto this week. and hard-to-locate 
The league said the states registration sites, restrictive with the worst registration deputization requirements, systems are: Alabama, and inadequate ways of Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, notifying those who are Indiana, Louisiana, Mas­purged from the rolls. sachusetts, Missouri, New Hampshire, Oklahoma, South Even where practices seem Dakota, Virginia and fair, Cain said, actual registra­Wyoming. tion procedures can be 
It said the best states are flawed. 
Feast ofOur Lady ofSorrows 
What's Important Now? 
TONIGHT! 
Tuesday, September 15, 1992 @ 7:30p.m. Hesbur~:h Library Auditorium 
Opening remarks: Dolores Tantoco-Stauder, Librarian & Series Coordinator 
Speaker: Video of Lou Holtz's talk at Notre Dame's 1990 National Conference on Medjugorje 
W.I.N! What's Important Now? 
"What's Important now? It's important to pray. It's important to fast. It's important to make sacrifices. It's important to do the things that Our Lady tells us in her messages in Medjugorje!" 
Coach Lou Holtz 
Concluding Remarks: Denis Nolan, ND '70, Director, Queen of Peace Ministries, & Co-host, A Message ofPeace T.V. program, Sundays on Channel 46 at 6:00pm 
Our Lady's Urgent Call! 
"I beg you: protect Medjugorje! Protect Our Lady's message!" 
Pope .John Paul II 
A Mass celebrating Our Lady's coming as the Queen ofPeace will be held on Friday, September 25, 1992, at St. Adalbert Catholic Church in South Bend. STUDENT RIDES ARE AVAILABLE AT THE CIRCLE! 
Mass begins at 6:30p.m. (Confessions at 6:00p.m.) and will be followed by the Rosary and Benediction. All Notre Dame and St. Mary's students are welcome! For further information contact: 
Children ofMary (call David Wade, tel# 283-4070, 616 Grace) 
Come and Receive Our Lady's· September 25th Message! 
Democrats' wives reject stereotypes 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Hillary Clinton and tipper Gore asked women on Monday to reject what they charged was a Re­publican campaign based on diversionary personal attacks and sexual stereotypes. 
"These next weeks we're go­ing to need your help," Mrs. Clinton told about 2,500 people -mostly working women -at a luncheon fund-raiser. 
"Fear and insecurity and anxiety and negativism will be abroad in the land," said the wife of the Democratic presi­dential nominee. 
"There will be much pointing of fingers. There will be much diversion and distraction and denial," she said. "It will not in any way make a difference ... to the homeless children in the shelters, to the families we met on the bus trips. But it'll fill the airwaves and fill the newspaper columns." 
Mrs. Gore, in introducing Mrs. Clinton, called her "a woman who has withstood a lot of unfair diversionary criticism because (Republicans) don't want to talk about their eco­nomic record and what they haven't done for families." 
"So they do what happens to women in this country," said the wife of Bill Clinton's run­ning mate, Sen. Al Gore. "We know it well. They stereotype us. They put us in a box. But it's not going to work this time." 
GREEI<S & CLUBS 
RAISE A COOL 
11000 IN JUST ONE WEEKI 
J'LUS $1000 FORTilE 
MEMBER WHO CAUS! 
No obligation. No cost You also get aFREE HEADPHONE RADIO just for calling 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 


Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, Sept15, 1992 
The Observer 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ............•..••.•... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .••........... Patrick Barth Photo Editor .•......... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller .......••.•............. David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Art controversy stirs faculty at both campuses 
Sculptures did not get a fair hearing 
Dear Editor: 
It would be irresponsible as an academic department to a!­low the comments made by Anna Marie Tabor about Marcia Kaplan's exhibition in Monday's issue of The Observer to stand without correction. They do a great disservice to the issues at hand. 
In Ms. Tabor's "Inside Col­umn," an obvious lack of infor­mation is distressing. 
Dr. Bruno Schlesinger, while a fine and learned colleague is not a Saint Mary's professor nor a faculty member of the Art De­partment. 
In her column Ms. Tabor suggests that more thoughtful placement for Marcia Kaplan's artworks might have alleviated the negative reception. 
These comments overlook a primary intent of the work. As the artist mentioned in her re­cent lecture on campus, these works were created to be ex­hibited in an outdoor content. This was in fact agreed to in contractual arrangements with the college prior to the exhibi­tion. 
This exterior setting played a critical role in the definition and exposition of Ms. Kaplan's aesthetic and expressive intent. 
With insensitivity to the artist's mode and the manner of expression A.M. Tabor suggests that Ms. Kaplan should have been invited to discuss her work prior to the exhibftion, ostensibly to alleviate the adverse reaction. Her state­ment reveals a fundamental lack of understanding of the creative process and experi­ence. 
To discuss, describe and de­fine these works prior to their installation or even shortly thereafter defeats the point and would be an injustice to the artist, the work and the audi­ence. 
By their nature these works pose fundamental questions of meaning to their audience, questions of interpretation which the artists seeks to have us address individually without a predefined interpretation. 
Ms. Tabor wrongly suggests that the answer precede the question. -a particularly inap­propriate solution in an envi­ronment which should, in its ideal, seek these answers through reasoned discourse. 
In the conclusion of her commentary, Ms. Tabor states that poor judgment and plan­ning were the cause of lost op­portunities in this exhibition. Nothing could be further from the truth. 
The simple fact is that reac­tionary intolerance is to blame here. In an institution where "Reasoned, if occasionally pas­sionate, discourse" should be the rule. 
Ms. Kaplan's work hardly got a fair hearing. 
Douglas E. Tyler Professor/Chair Fr. Richard Conyers Lecturer Art Sr. Cecilia Ann Kelly Professor Sr. Rose Ellen Morrissey 
H. James Paradis Professor Emeriti Marcia Rickard Julie W. Tourtillotte William W. Tourtillotte 
Assistant Professors Sept. 10, 1992 Dear Editor: 


By this letter we would like to show our support for our col­leagues in the Art Department at Saint Mary's College and those individuals who serve on the Moreau Gallery Board. 
By bringing quality exhibi­tions of the work of contempo­rary artists to the campus, they have enhanced the cultural life of the entire community. 
We are saddened and dis­turbed by the recent vandalism to the sculpture of Marcia Ka­plan, because such behavior indicates a closed-minded and intolerant attitude that is totally inappropriate in an academic environment. 
It is our hope that this inci­dent will not curtail future ex­hibitions of outdoor sculpture offered under the "Sculpture on the Grounds" program. 
Jeffrey Adams 
Sculpture Technician 
Frederick Beckman 
Prof. Emeritus 
Douglas Bradley 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Kevin Firm Adj. Asst. Professors Sally Brogden William Goralski 
V. Asst. Professors Robert Coleman Jean Dibble Kathleen Pyne Leah Rutchick Asst. Professors Austin Collins, CSC Paul Down Asst. Prof. Spec. James Flanigan, CSC Richard Gray Douglas Kinsey Dean Porter Charles Rosenberg Richard Stevens Donald Vogl Assoc. Professors John Sherman Asst. Prof. Spec. Cheryl Phelan Art Dept. Staff 
Anthony Lauck, CSC Emeritus William Kremer Professor Sept. 1 0, 1992 
ALSO, W/3 NCV/!R 
8UY~7HAT 
TRU:iTM/3
HAV& 7H& CFFfWS!Ye 
ONTH/5...
t-YRICS STICKER. ... 
\-=~"""'­

'We live in far too permissive a society. Never before has pornography been this rampant. And those films are lit so badly!' 
Woody Allen 

If your mind is not for rent, submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Accent 
Tuesday, September 15, 1992 page number 9 

By PETER BEVACQUA 
Film Critic 
In more than 140 years of competition, the United States has lost the America's Cup only once. 
"Wind" is the dramatic, fictional account of an upstart group of American challengers whose drive to win the back sailing's top prize plunges them into a world where money, power, love and ambition are inextricably intertwined. 
Carroll Ballard's ("Black Stallion") latest endeavor traces the insatiable desire of Will Parker (Matthew Modine) to regain the treasured Cup which was lost due to his blunder two years earlier. 
The loss has destroyed him both mentally and physically-his only hope for self rejuvenation is to avenge his loss and to restore sailing's most prestigious honor to the American people. Parker and his band of maritime bad boys are the rabble-rousers of 
.. 

"Wind" produced by Mata Yamamoto directed by Carroll Ballard starring: Matthew Modine, 
Jennifer Grey, and Cliff Robertson 
* * (out of five) 

sailing's elite society of pomp and circumstance. 
The film's first shortcoming is its choice of subject matter. A cinematic work depicting the "zany" world of America's Cup racing is not going to cause as much of an emotional stir as the Bobby Fischer/Borris Spasky chess match over in Yugoslavia-each will have its audience, but no one really cares. 
However, I figured that perhaps the film would have an interesting portrayal of the developing relationship between Will Parker and his 
Artistic traditions 
Sesquicentennial exhibit at the Snite displays donated classic , works 
By ANALISE TAYLOR  exhibit Porter asked alumni to  obtain over 500 pieces of art for  
Accent Writer  donate  artwork  to  be  the  museum  and  also  to  
permanently displayed whereas  enhance the exhibit to be "more  
The  University's  in the past pieces  were  on  advantageous for the student."  
Sesquicentennial Celebration  display until the close of the  "We want it to be something  
has  brought  much  to  the  exhibit.  for the future," he said.  
limelight within the past year, and the new Sesquicentennial exhibit at the Snite Museum of Art promises to continue the University's rediscovery of tradition, according to Dr. Dean ­ Included in the masterpieces is an rare collection of drawings by old masters given by John Reilly '63. In the last year sixty­six drawings by old masters have been given to the  Porter said he wanted to look toward the future. Originally, there had been 7 5 works and many pieces had already been installed. The additional works have enhanced the rest of the  
Porter, the museum's director.  university museum.  museum, according to Porter.  
"The whole museum is used  
When Porter began working  Daniel Morper '67, gave the  and has profited," he said.  
on the anniversary exhibit of  Snite a 96 X 96 foot painting of  
the Snite five years ago, he was  the Grand Canyon.  Mr. and  Virtually every aspect of the  
unaware of the magnitude of  Mrs. Jack Feddersen gave sev­ museum has been significantly 
his project.  enty-two  etchings  by  enhanced, he said.  Everything  
Rembrandt and Mary Lou and  from  Pre-Colombian  art  to  
From the outset, he wanted it  Judd Leighton gave two "highly  Medieval  works  to  Native  
to  be unlike any other  an­ significant"  Pre-Columbia  American art is on display to  
niversary celebration.  He said  collections comprised of 80  help commemorate the 150th  
that  when  the  university  pieces.  Artists such as George  anniversary of the University.  
celebrated  its  125th  Rickey gave kinetic sculpture.  
anniversary in 196 7 the exhibit  "I  think  it  (the  exhibit)  
was  more  of  a  historical  Porter said this project was  demonstrates the extraordinary 
celebration where old paintings  made  possible through the  generosity friends and alumni  
and photos were prominently  Humana  Foundation  have exercised over the period  
on display.  Endowment for American Art.  of 1987-1992," Porter said.  
The interest produced by the  "The last five years have been  
For  the  sesquicentennial  endowment allowed Porter to  unbelievable."  


girlfriend/racing-mate Kate While it reaches success on Jim Morrison into the Bass (Jennifer Grey). I was the sea, where the film fails quintessential rock-deity, Mojo wrong; in fact, the opposite miserably, to state it simply, is Risin. proved to be true. on land. Matthew Modine is a The latter was quite 
very popular actor, but even an interesting, the former is 
The cinematography of the actor the likes of Marlon absurd. actual racing sequences was Brando could not have brought breathtaking; one must wonder life into the character of Will If one has an interest in how the director was able to Parker. sailing the film will prove to be capture such a true sense of the rewarding due to its knowledge danger and uncertainty which And how about Jennifer of the nautical world, and its accompanies the spectacle of Grey-well, she can dance, but use of incredible racing footage. the America's Cup. she can't act. Perhaps the most 
The scenes were exhilarating, ludicrous scene within the film "Wind" will not appeal to and will make the film a is when Modine undergoes a most, and those to whom it viewing pleasure to anyone who pseudo mystical Indian appeals are the same people has ever had the chance to conversion reminiscent of Oliver who watch the actual America's embark upon the open seas. Stone's acid-induced Cup races on ESPN during the 
metamorphic transformation of most God-awful hours. 
The Observer Tuesday, September 15, 1992 

AP File Photo 

Good guys wear black, but the White Sox looked like the bad guys to Yankee fans in New York last night. 
page 10 

Cadaret rings Sox's Bell 
NEW YORK (AP) -Leave it to George Bell to stir up a sleepy September game. 
The Chicago White Sox beat the New York Yankees 8-6 Monday night in a game inter­rupted by a bench-clearing in­cident in the eighth inning. 
Bell, Chicago's designated hitter, thought reliever Greg Cadaret was throwing at him and took a few steps toward the mound. The benches and bullpens emptied. 
Yankees batting coach Frank Howard, who stands 6-foot-8, walked to the plate and chal­lenged Bell, but the player was held off by teammates and order was restored by the um­pires. 
"Nobody respects George Bell more than me," Howard said. "In reality I should have kept my mouth shut. As a coach you're here to help stop those things." 
"I didn't think there was go­ing to be a fight," said White Sox manager Gene Lamont. "The pitch looked like it was behind him, but I don't think George was trying to intimidate the pitcher." 
After Bell got back into the batter's box, someone in the stands threw a ball that barely missed him. 
In the sixth inning, Bell swung at a 3-0 pitch while be­ing intentionally walked and drew some boos from the crowd. 
"I have no comment," Bell said. 
Wilson Alvarez (5-3) gave up five hits and four runs in six innings to get the victory. Roberto Hernandez, the fourth Chicago pitcher, got the last four outs for his ninth save. 
Lance Johnson, Frank Thomas and Dale Sveum drove in two runs each for the White Sox. Sveum homered in the sixth to give the White Sox a 7­4lead. 
With the scored tied 4-4 in the fifth, Johnson hit a two-run triple with two out off rookie Bob Wickman (3-1). Wickman was an emergency starter for the Yankees in place of Scott Sanderson, who was scratched just before the game started because of a pulled muscle in his upper right back. 
Wickman failed in his attempt to become the first Yankees pitcher to win his first four ma­jor league decisions since Whitey Ford did it in 1950. Ford started his career 9-0. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Notices 
For more information and 
assistance regarding the 
investigation of financing, business 
opportunities and work-at-home 
opportunities, THE OBSERVER 
urges its readers to contact the 
Better Business Bureau of 
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., 
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­
9121 or800-439-5313. 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
TYPING 
287-4082 
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!! 
BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday 
Pandora's Books 808 Howard 
3 blks. from campus 233-2342 
GROUPS! GROUPS! GROUPS! 
Groups are now starting at the University Counseling Center for students interested in enhancing self-esteem, dealing with relationship concerns, recovering from an eating disorder, coping with others alcohol or drug abuse/ use, graduate students in need of support and more. Call UCC at 239­7336 for details. CALL NOW! 

ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: Les Miserables songbook. To the girl who borrowed it at Choral auditions & then never returned it: I don't know who you are. so PLEASE call or drop it off at 328 Stanford. X2033. 
Lost: Gold cladaugh bracelet. 
Possibly in NOH or Loftus. Huge 
sentimental value. If found please 
call271-7288. REWARD 
FOUND: 2 keys on a ring outside of Haggar on 9-7. Call x2989 to claim. 
LOST: Men's black Seiko dress 
watch between library circle and 
fifth floor Flanner. Please call 
Gerald at X3692. 
L--_W_A_N_T_E_D_ ___.I 
EASY, FUN PHONE WORK. 
EVENINGS. HIGH PAY. 237-1988. 
Have fun earning $500-$1,500 in one week! Student organizations needed for marketing project on­campus. Must be motivated and organized. Call (800) 592-2121 extension 308. 
EARN $1 ,500 WEEKLY mailing our circulars! ... Begin NOW!. ..FREE packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. 
UNIQUE, PART-TIME, INCOME OPPORTUNITY. Seeking a creative, competitive marketing person to represent a new, low cost product to people searching for a new career. For interview call 234­1171, 8am-5pm. 
BONNIE DOON 
HAS POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR 
SERVERS, COOKS AND 
FOUNTAIN 
Apply in person to: 
52446 Dixie Way No., South Bend 
4615 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
PURDUE TIX!!!I 
I offer SEX, MONEY, roommates, 
anything else your heart desires! 
Need 2 GA or 1 Std. 
-Call Scot at *4013 
HELP!HELPIHELP!HELP!HELP! 
I need a ride to and from Muncie 
(BSU) on any weekend or weekday. 
I will pay gas, bake cookies, give 
you my firstborn! Best Friend's b­
day is the 15th. Can't miss ill Call 
me. 
Amy x4530 
NEED RIDE TO MICHIGAN STATE 9/18 & ANY WEEKEND $ 284­5053$ 
I need a ride to Miami(OH.) University ANY weekend. 
Will help pay for gas. Call Brian x2081 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST for ND-SMC families. 2 bdrms. w/twin beds; 1 bdrm. w/single. 10 mins. from campus in attractive neighborhood. For football & special weekends. Call 234-2626. 
SHARP RIVERFRONT HOME­FOOTBALL WKNDS/SHORT TERM RENTALS. ALSO APT. & BEDROOMS.257-91 01. 
BED "N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 

LT~~~OL~R~V~~VCR I 
TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR, TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY FREE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-5959 
U2 Tickets For Sale! 4 Lawn Seats, 9-15 at World, Chicago. $40 ea or best. 287-5724. 
82 Reliant SW 30mpg cass air-Great Roadtrip car! $750/bo 2711532 

CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 
89 MERCEDES......... $200 
86 VW.......................... $ 50 
87 MERCEDES.......... $100 
65 MUSTANG ............. $ 50 Choose from thousands starting 
$25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour 
Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright 
#IN11KJC. 
STUDENT TIX BOOK 4-SALE. 
JENNIFER 284-5503. 
FURNITURE: Call: 287-7611 
Entertainment Center & Bookcase 
$30; Teak Bookcase $75; Oak Bookcase $20; Chair $20; Green Easy Chair $50. 
SKIS Atomic 833sl -top of the line direct from factory, still wrapped excellent price! 
Kevin x1062 
Sofa for sale. Please call258-0298 
TICKETS 
I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS.272-6306 
WANTED: GA'S/STUDENT TIX FOR ANY/ALL HOME GAMES­MICH. A MUST! ALUMNI IN DESPERATE NEED\1708-843­6947. 
I need GA's and/or Student tix for all or any game. Please call Aaron @ 271-2908. 
Need tix for P.S.U. Mich, Pur $$bob x3398 
NEED PENN ST. TIX. GA'S ONLY. 234-8306 OR 800-323-7687. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 GA's AND 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR PENN STATE. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS Call John X4478 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need G.A.'s for B.C.,B.Y.U. and Penn St. Will pay BIGI #4419 
I need student and/or GA Purdue football tickets and Boston College GA football tickets; please call Dave at x4506. 
MY BRO IS A GREAT H.S. QB. 
HE LUVS TO GET PLAYS FROM NO. HE NEEDS PLAYS. THERE'S ONE WAY. SELL ME YOUR PU, ST, BYU, BC, 
PENN GA'SI CALL ERIN 284-5128. 
HELP! NEED TO TRADE 4 BC GA'S FOR 4 BYU GA'S. PLEASE CALL COLLECT AFTER 8 PM 
(609) 769-0721. 
NEED 1 STANFORD AND 1 BC GA. CALL X2805 
PLEASE SELL ME ONE GA TIC 
FOR PURDUE. 

CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303 
BEFORE 4 PM OR 272-3753 
AFTER 5 PM. 

STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE CALL 283-1747 
I'VE GOT TWO PURDUE GAs 
YOU'VE GOT TWO PENN STATE GAs 
WANNA TRADE? Call Brei (me) at 1248. I love you. 
NEED 2 BYU GA'S BADLY-CALL 
X3625 

NEED 1 STUD. AND 2 GA'S FOR 
PENN ST. JASON X 1746 

Need 2 tickets-GAs-for Oct. 3 Stanford game. Call Angela 283­
4058 

NEED 2 TICKETS Penn State game Nov 14. BIG$ Call Sam Collect (D)908-687-1330 (N)201­376-9427 
Alumni needs 
2 PURDUE GA's 
Please Help. 
Call Maria x1347 
PLEASE! NEED 2 GA'S FOR PENN ST. CALL MARION 234-6836. $$$ 
I need 2 Stanford GA's. Andrew-1881 
I HAVE 4 MICHIGAN STATE GA's -Vince x1251 
I have 2 Stanford GAs-call Gabrielle at 283-3023 
Need 2 GA's for Purdue. Call 283­4519. 
Need Penn St. Tix Tony x1786 

ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 618-439-3338. 
HELPI! I Need 4-5 GAs for Nov. 7 BC game. Please call x3799. Thanks. 
HELP! NEED 2-10 STANFORD GA'S CALL JOE X 1560 
I need 2 GA's for both B.C. and Penn State. 283-4607. 
Will provide "SPECIAL FAVORS" for Stanford tixll You'll be glad you called! x4355 ask for Sheena the tigress! 
MARRIED STUDENT TIX BOOK 
FOR SALE BOB 287-9118 
NO ID REQUIRED NO ID REQUIRED 
BOSTON COLLEGE SUCKS! 
So why don't you sell me your tickets? Call Delli 283-1693 
NEED PENN STATE TICKETS. 
WILL PAY $40 EACH. CALL COLLECT 614-354-5716 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED TWO GA TICKETS FOR THE STANFORD GAME. CALL MATT AT X1741 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEEDED: 

TWO STANFORD G.A.'S 
CALL TOM AT 273-8355 
STUDENT TICKETS 4 SALE CALL X1547 TONY OR MARK 
NEED TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAMES 277-1659 
FOR SALE: 

TICKET Booklet CALL X3971 
Need GA's for all home games Brian 273-8368 
Need GA's for all home games Kim 284-4401 
*"'***LOOK ..**"' 
I need stud tic packets & GA's all games. JASON 233-4008 
Need 1 Stanford GA-Trade for Purdue GA call3351 
$$$$$$$NEED TIX$$$$$$$$ Penn State GA's or student tix. Call x2998 
NEED TO TRADE 2 STANFORD GA'SFOR 2 BC GA'S CALL 283-4194. 
NEED 1 Penn State GA -x3958. 
Need Stanford GA's Call Mike x1528 
I need BYU tixl!! Call Joel at 289­5563 
?$! SELL GAs: 2 Purdue, 1 Stan, BYU, BC, Pen.S. 272-7034 
I NEED 2 PURDUE GA's HAVE 2 GA's FOR STANFORD CALL X1234 
NEED PURDUE GA'S. CALL SANDY AT 272-6194. 
PERSONAL 
HeyNiff 
JUDGEMENT DAY IS COMING!!! 
...CLUB 23*** TODAY! $2 7" Subs 
OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 
WANTED: Dedicated students to fill 2-hour evening shifts on Mon.-Thur. for COUNSELINE. If interested in providing this community service, call 239-7336. 
To the guy in the fr. dogbook who likes trees: there's a large oak outside Grace with a hole in it. 
HAVE A BALL! 
MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR FREE HAIRCUTS. CALL COSIMO'S 277-1875. 
Desperately need ride to/from Terre Haute or nearby this weekend (9/18). Will pay gas+$ & ben debt to u. Please call Clay x1188. 
MARGE 
U2U2U2U2U2U2U2U2U2U2U2 Help!!!!!!!! Two petite women desparately need a ride to the U2 concert Wed. night in Chicago!!!!! Will pay for gas and a beer. Please call Tracy or Tara at 
x3534. U2U2U2U2U2U2U2U2U2U2U2 
Rebecca, Guess your 9/20/92 surprise ... CLUE #1: small furry animals 
-Ryan 
No draft dodgers for VICE 
PRESIDENT, either, for that matter ... 
MARY ANN LILLIE ! ! Congrats on making Uncle 
Roscoe! (What?) Now we must 
heed the advice of the door and 
lament this great event. Who 
loves ya, babe! 
The Weird Ones 
Hey! Hey! Hey! Lost: a cross made of nails, strung on leather. Trem.endous sentimental value. Call Rex @ *1613. Hey! Hey! Hey! 
To the rich-meister: we know about the pentagon, but is it the "lab five?" You are the glue. 
283-HELL needs Stanford GAs! 
P.S. We're two horny girls!!! 
Go Walsh Football Playoff bound!! Defense is awesome. 

--~------~----------------­

AMERICAN LEAGUE  
East Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pet  
Toronto  '84  6t  .579  
Baltimore  79  64  .552  
Milwaukee  78  65  .545  
New York  69  75  .479  
Cleveland  68  75  .476  
Detroit  67  77  .465  
Boston  65  78  .455  
Weal Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pet  
Oakland  86  57  .601  
Minnesota  80  63  .559  
Chicago  76  67  .531  
Texas  70  76  .479  
California  64  79  .448  
Kansas City  63  80  .441  
Seattle  56  88  .389  
NATIONAL LEAGUE  
Eaat Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pet  
P~tsburgh  83  60  .580  
Montreal  79  64  .552  
St. Louis  71  70  .504  
Chicago  70  72  .493  
New York  64  78  .451  
Philadelphia  59  82  .418  
West Division  
w  L  Pet  
Atlanta  87  55  .613  
Cincinnati  77  66  .538  
San Diego  76  66  .535  
Houston  68  76  .472  
San Francisco  64  80  .444  
Los Angeles  57  86  .399  

z-denotes first game was a win. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Saturday'• Gamea Minnesota 7, California 2 Detroit 9, Boston 5 
New York 11, Kansas City 9 Oakland 5, Seattle 4 Cleveland 5, Chicago 3 Toronto 4, Texas 2 Milwaukee 5, Baltimore 0 
Sunday'a Gamea Detroit 7, Boston 2 Kansas City 3, New York 0 Milwaukee 3, Baltimore 1 Minnesota 6, California 2 Cleveland 2. Chicago t, 13 innings Toronto 7, Texas 2 Oakland 3, Seattle 1 
Monday'a Gamea 
Late Game Not Included Chicago s. New York 6 Milwaukee 6, Boston o Bahimore 2, Kansas C~y 1 Cleveland 2, Toronto 1 Minnesota at Oakland, (n) Only games scheduled 
Tueaday'a Gamea Chicago (Fernandez 7-9) at New York (undecided), 7:30p.m. 
Milwaukee (Bones 8-9) at Boston (Viola 11-11 ). 7:35p.m. Kansas City (Aquino 2-5) at Baltimore (Rhodes 5-5), 7;35 p.m. Cleveland (Embree 0-0) at Toronto (Ju.Guzman 14-3), 7:35p.m. Texas (Jo.Guzman 13-11) at Detroit (Gullickson 14-10), 7:35p.m. Minnesota (Mahomes 3-2) at Oakland (Darling 13-9), 10:05 p.m. California (Finley 4-12) at Seattle (Fleming 15­8), 10:35 p.m. 
GB  l10  Steak  Home  Away  
z-7-3  Lost  t  44-25  39-36  
4  z-4-6  Won  1  38-34  41-30  
5  z-7-3  Won  3  44-27  34-38  
14 112  z-7-3  Lost  2  37-35  32-40  
15  Z-8-2  Won  5  37-34  31-41  
16 112  4-6  Won  2  31-38  36-39  
18  z-4-6  Lost  3  40-32  25-46  
GB  LtD  Streak  Home  Away  
7-3  Won  6  45-27  41-30  
6  z-6-4  Won  2  44-30  36-33  
10  z-5-5  Won  1  46-29  30-38  
171/2  4-6  Lost  2  34-42  36-34  
22  z-4-6  Lost  2  36-34  28-45  
23  3-7  Lost  1  38-33  25-47  
301/2  0-10  Lost  11  33-37  23-51  
GB  L10  Streak  Home  Away  
z-6-4  Won  1  45-26  38-34  
4  z-5-5  Lost  1  39-35  40-29  
11  6-4  Lost  1  39-33  32-37  
12 112  2-8  Lost  3  36-32  34-40  
18 112  Z-3-7  Won  1  35-32  29-46  
23  z-6-4  Won  2  36-38  23-44  
GB  L1D  Streak  Home  Away  
9-1  Won  9  45-26  42-29  
10 112  5-5  Lost  1  44-23  33-43  
11  z-6-4  Won  1  41-30  35-36  
20  z-5-5  Won  1  40-33  28-43  
24  4-6  Lost  1  38-35  26-45  
30 112  3-7  Lost  1  36-38  21-48  
NATIONAL  LEAGUE  
Soturdoy'a  Gomea  
Montreal4, New York 1  
St. Louis 11, Chicago 3  
Pittsburgh 9, Philade~hia 7  
Atlanta 9, Houston 3  

Los Angeles 7, San Francisco o Cincinnati 7, San Diego 4 Sunday'a Gamea 
Philadelphia 6, Pittsburgh 3 Atlanta 9, Houston 2 San Francisco 7, Los Angeles 3 San Diego 3, Cincinnati 1 Montreal 7, New York 5 St. Louis 10, Chicago 3 
Monday'a Gamea 
Late Game Not Included Philadelphia 6, Montreal 2 New York 10, Chicago 8 Pittsburgh 5, St. Louis 4, 10 innings Houston 5, San Francisco o Los Angeles at San Diego, (n) Only games scheduled 
Tueaday'a Gamea BASEBALL 
American League 
BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Recalled Manny Alexander, shortstop, from Rochester of the International League. 
BOSTON RED SOX-Recalled Phil Plantier outfielder; Daryl Irvine and Scott Taylor, pitchers'; John Flaherty, catcher, and Steve Lyons, outfielder, from Pawtucket of the International League. 
CLEVELAND INDIANS-Recalled Alan Embree pitcher, from Canton-Akron of the Eastern League. ' SEAffiE MARINERS-Activated Erik Hanson, pitcher, from the 15-day disabled list. 
TEXAS RANGERS-Activated Mike Jeffcoat pitcher, from the 60-day disabled list, and Terry Mathews, pncher, from the 15-day disabled list. FOOTBALL National Football League 
HOUSTON OILERS-Waived Richard Johnson, cornerback. Signed William Fuller, defensive end. 
KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-Placed Kimble Anders running back, on Injured reserve. Activated Darreli Malone, cornerback, from the practice squad. HOCKEY National Hockey League 
EDMONTON OILERS-Agreed to terms with Scott Mellanby, rlght wing, on a one-year contract. LOS ANGELES KINGS~Signed Alexei Zhitnlk, forward, to a mubiyear contract. 
NEW YORK RANGERS-Agreed to terms to Brian Leetch, defenseman, on a seven-year con­tract. COLLEGE 
ST. BONAVENTURE-Named Sean C. McNamee men's swimming coach. 
NL LEADERS 
BATTING-Sheffield, San Diego, .331; 
VanSlyke, Pntsburgh, .331; Kruk, Philadelphia, 
.327; Gwynn, San Diego, .319; LWaker, Montreal, 
.312; Butler, Los Angeles, .310; Grace, Chicago, 
.308. 

RUNS-Bonds, Pittsburgh, 96; Grissom, 
Montreal, 92; Hollins, Philadelphia, 90; Biggio, 
Houston, 88; VanSlyke, Pittsburgh, 88; Pendleton, 
Atlanta, 87; Sandberg, Chicago, 82. 
RBI-Daunon, Philadelphia, 100; Pendleton, 
Atlanta, 95; Sheffield, San Diego, 94; McGrlff, San 
Diego, 93; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 89; LWalker, 
Montreal, 84; Murray, New York. 82. 
HITS-Pendleton, Atlanta, 176; VanSlyke, 
Pittsburgh, 176; Sheffield, San Diego, 167; Gwynn, 
San Diego, 165; Grace, Chicago, 163; Grissom, 
Montreal, 162; Sandberg, Chicago, 159. 
DOUBLES-VanSiyke, Pittsburgh, 4I; Duncan, 
Philadelphia, 37; Grissom, Montreal, 36; WCiark, 
San Francisco, 36; Lankford, St. Louis, 35; JBell, 
Pittsburgh, 34; Murray, New York, 33. 
TRIPLES-DSanders, Atlanta, 14; Finley, 
H6uston, It; VanSlyke, Pittsburgh, 11; Butler, Los 
Angeles, 11; Alicea, St. Louis, 10; Offerman, Los 
New York (Fernandez 12-10) at Chicago (BoskK;, Angeles, 8; Sandberg, Chicago, 8. 
5-8), 2;20 p.m. HOME RUNS~McGriff, San Diego, 34; Atlanta (Avery 10-9) at Cincinnati (Belcher 11-Sheffield, San Diego, 31; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 28; 14), 7:35p.m. Dauhon, Philadelphia. 26; Hollins, Philadelphia, 
Montreal (Hill 15·8) at Philadelphia (Schilling 23; LWalker, Montreal, 22; Pendleton, Atlanta, 21. 
13-9), 7;35 p.m. STOLEN BASES-Grissom, Montreal, 70; Pittsburgh (Tomlin 13-8) at St. Louis (Clark 3-9), DeShields, Montreal, 45; Butler, Los Angeles, 41; 8:05p.m. Lankford, St. Louis, 40; Roberts, Cincinnati, 39; 
San Francisco (Burkett 12-9) at Houston (Bowen Nixon, Atlanta, 38; OSmhh, St. Louis, 38. 
0-5), 8:35p.m. , PITCHING (17 Decisions)-Giavine, Atlanta, Los Angeles (Hershiser 9-13) at San Diego 20-6, .769,2.81; Tewksbury, St. Louis, 16-5, .762, 
(Deshaies 4-4), 10:05 p.m. 2.07; Swindell, Cincinnati, 12-6, .667, 2.54; Morgan, Chicago, 14-7, .667, 2.61; Lebrandt, Atlanta. 12-6, .667, 3.54; KHill, Montreal, 15-8, 
.852, 2.84;Cone, NewYork,13-7, .650, 2.88. 
STRIKEOUTS-Cone, New York, 214; Smoltz, Atlanta, 197; SFernandez. New York, 173; GMaddux, Chicago, 172; Drabek, Phtsburgh, I 57; 
BATTING-EMartinez, Seattle, .343; Puckett, Minnesota, .335; Mack, Minnesota, .326; Griffey, Seattle, .323; Molitor, Milwaukee, .321; RAiomar, Toronto, .318; Thomas, Chicago, .315. 
RUNS-Phillips, Detroh, 102; EMartinez. Seattle, 100; RAiomar, Toronto, 94; Thomas, Chicago, 93; Anderson, Baltimore, 93; Knoblauch, Minnesota. 92; Puckett, Minnesota. 92. 
RBI~Fielder. Detroh, 113; Carter, Toronto, 106; Puckett, Minnesota. 100; Thomas, Chicago, 99; JuGonzalez, Texas, 99; GBell, Chicago, 99; Devereaux, Babimore, 97. 
HITS-Puckett, Minnesota, 189; EMartinez, Seattle, 181; Baerga, Cleveland, 175; Mack, Minnesota, 174; Molhor, Milwaukee, 172; Mattingly, New York, 166; Devereaux, Bahimore. 163. 
DOUBLES-EMartinez, Seattle, 46; Griffey, Seattle, 37; Mattingly, New York, 37; Thomas, Chicago, 33; Ventura. Chicago, 33; Jefferies, Kansas Chy, 33; Joyner, Kansas Chy, 33. 
TRIPLES-Devereaux, Baltimore, 11; LJohnson, Chicago, 11; Anderson, Baltimore, 9; Lofton, Cleveland, 8; RAiomar, Toronto, 7; Raines, Chicago. 7; 6 are tied wnh 8. 
HOME RUNS-JuGonzalez, Texas, 40; McGwire, Oakland, 38; Carter. Toronto. 32; Fielder, Detroit, 31; Belle, Cleveland, 29; Tettleton, Detroit, 29; Deer, Detro~. 28. 
STOLEN BASES~Lofton, Cleveland, 54; Anderson, Bahlmore, 51; Listach, Milwaukee, 50; Polonla, CaJHomia, 49; RHenderson, Oakland, 45; Raines, Chicago, 43; RAJomar, Toronto, 41. 
PITCHING (17 Decisions)-JuGuzman, Toronto, 14-3, .824, 2.43; JaMorris, Toronto, 19-5, .792, 4.08; Mussina, Bahimore, 15-5, .750, 2.71; McDowell, Chicago, 20-7, .741, 3.07; Bosio, Milwaukee, 14-5, .737, 3.66; KBrown, Texas, 19-9, .679, 3.27; Clemens, Boston, 18-9, .667, 2.31. 
STRIKEOUTS-Clemens, Boston, 198; Perez, New York, 194; RJohnson, Seattle, 188; McDowell, Chicago, 156; JsGuzman, Texas, 155; JuGuzman, Toronto, 152; KBrown, Texas, 151. 
SAVES-Eckersley, Oakland, 45; Aguilera, Minnesota, 37; Montgomery, Kansas City, 34; Olson, Baltimore, 33; JeRussell, Oakland, 29; Henke, Toronto, 28; Reardon, Boston, 27. 

Golf Money Leadera PONTE VEDRA. Fla (AP) -The money leaders on the 1992 PGA Tour through the Canadian Open, which ended Sept. 13: NATIONAL CONFERENCE East 
Trn  Money  
1. Fred Couples  20  $1,154,473  
2. Davis Love Ill  22  $1,084,714  
3. Nick Price  24  $930,659  
4. Tom Kite  21  $909,236  
5. John Cook  18  $885,971  
6. Corey Pavin  21  $757,134  
7. Brad Faxon  23  $749,893  
8. Dan Forsman  26  $680,690  
9. Ray Floyd  14  $665,918  
10. Jeff Sluman  26  $664,694  
11. Ch~ Beck  22  $643,606  
12. Bruce Lietzke  16  $642,405  
13. Mark O'Meara  21  $619,248  
14. Greg Norman  15  $617,443  
15. Steve Ekington  21  $613,152  
16. Mark Brooks  25  $572,390  
17. Lee Janzen  27  $545,451  
18. Jim Gallagher, Jr.  23  $509,993  
19. Paul Azinger  19  $508,663  
20. David Peoples  23  $497,369  
21. Jay Haas  23  $486,309  
22. Duffy Waldorf  21  $483,120  
23. Billy Ray Brown  21  $449,151  
24. Keith Clearwater  25  $439,623  
25. Ben Crenshaw  20  $432,366  
26. Craig Stadler  22  $429,674  
27. Tom Lehman  24  $426,790  
28. Rick Fehr  21  $418,163  

AMERICAN  CONFERENCE  
Eaat  
w  L  T  Pet.  
Buffalo  2  0  0  1.000  
Miami  1  0  0  1.000  
Indianapolis  1  1  0  .500  
New England  0  I  0  .000  
N.Y. Jets  0  2  0  .000  
Central  
Cincinnati  2  0  0  1.000  
Pittsburgh  2  0  0  1.000  
Houston  I  1  0  .500  
Cleveland  0  2  0  .000  
Weal  
Denver  2  0  0  1.000  
Kansas CHy  2  0  0  1.000  
LA Raiders  0  2  0  .000  
San Diego  0  2  0  .000  
Seattle  0  2  0  .000  

PF PA 74 38 27 23 24 23 0 14 27 47 
45 24 56 34 44 39 26 41 
38 26 50 17 34 41 23 45 10 47 

w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  
Dallas  2  0  0  1.000  57  38  
Philadelphia  2  0  0  1.000  46  27  
Washington  1  1  0  .500  34  40  
N.Y. Giants  0  2  0  .000  42  65  
Phoenix  0  2  0  .000  21  54  
Central  
TarJll8. Bay  2  0  0  1.000  54  10  

Chicago  t  1  0  .500  
Detroh  1  1  0  .500  
Minnesota  1  1  0  .500  
Green Bay  0  2  0  .000  
Weal  
Atlanta  0  .500  
LA Rams  0  .500  
New Orleans  0  .500  
San Francisco  1  0  .500  
Sunday'a  Gamea  

Washington 24, Atlanta 17 New Orleans 28, Chicago 6 Dallas 34, New York Giants 28 Tampa Bay 31. Green Bay 3 33 52 55 44 40 51 23 54 
37 41 21 40 41 21 62 48 

Cincinnati 24, Los Angeles Raiders 21, OT Detroit 31, Minnesota 17 Kansas CHy 26, Seattle 7 Buffalo 34, San Francisco 31 Houston 20, Indianapolis 10 Los Angeles Rams 14, New England 0 Pittsburgh 27, New York Jets 10 Denver 21, San Diego 13 Philade~hia 31, Phoenix 14 
Monday'• Game Miaml 27. Cleveland 23 
Su,Pay, Sept. 20 Cihcinnati at Green Bay, 1 p.m. Denver at Philadelphia. 1 p.m. Kansas Chy at Houston. 1 p.m. New Orleans at Atlanta. 1 p.m. San Francisco at New York Jets, I p.m. Seattle at New England, 1 p.m. Tampa Bay at Minnesota, 1 p.m. Cleveland at Los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m. Detroit at Washington, 4 p.m. Los Angeles Rams at Miami. 4 p.m. Phoenix at DaHas, 4 p.m. Pittsburgh at San Diego, 4 p.m. Indianapolis at Buffalo, 8 p.m 
Monday, Sept. 21 New York Giants at Chicago, 9 p.m. 
Rijo, Cincinnati, 157; Harnisch, Houston, 144. 
29. Gene Sauers 20 $404,484 ~n Sll!lle Pate 24 $401 608
···..............................A..c·RA:DUATE..sTUDEN·T·..............................-~ 
• 
• 
BIBLE STUDY GROUP will meet Thursday, 17 September 1992 and each Thursday during semesters 8:00 -9:00 p.m. in the Quiet Place 15-1B Fischer Graduate Residences 
The group is open to any graduate student who is interested in reading the Bible with others. Its mode will be shared reflection rather than formal instruction. The group will deliberate about what texts to focus on. Please feel f:~e to drop in this week or later to see if you care to participate. 
•
•
• 
• 

Inquiries can be made of: Fr. John Gerber, C.S.C., Chaplain to Graduate •••••Students at 239-8606.
• 
-~ 
: (?MPUS : 
: MlNI<TI>Y :
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~~¥••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
page 12 

Sherrill axes bull Mississippi State coach makes demonstration to motivate team 
STARKVILLE, Miss. (AP) ­Mississippi State coach Jackie Sherrill says he allowed a bull to be castrated in front of his football team prior to a Sept. 5 victory over the Texas Longhorns as an educational and motivational experience. 
"The whole story came when I asked our players what a steer was and none of them knew what a steer was," Sherrill said Sunday. "People say (the Texas mascot) is a longhorn steer. Is that a bull, or is he a steer?" 
Sherrill said the castration was performed in front of the team for two reasons, with ed­ucation "probably the biggest reason." 
Sherrill said motivation was another reason in the week leading up to the Texas game. Asked how the demonstration would motivate his team, the coach said, "That's every­body's different perception." 
Mississippi State, currently 1-1 and ranked No. 24, defeated Texas 28-10. 
University President Donald Zacharias said Sunday he had talked briefly with Sherrill and athletic director Larry Templeton about matter. "I don't have any comment at this time," Zacharias said. 
John Harkness, associate dean of Mississippi State's vet­erinary medicine school, ques­tioned the appropriateness of the castration on the practice field. 
"It's my personal opinion that to do that procedure in that context causes me concern," Harkness said. "As a veterinarian concerned with the treatment of animals at Mississippi State, I think it was out of place." 
The incident came to light after a complaint was filed last week with the Animal Rescue League. 
The calfs owner performed the castration and Sherrill said there was nothing inhumane about it because, "they were going to perform the castration anyway. A guy from the vet school, his assumptions and his comments are not valid. We didn't do anything inhumane to an animal. 
"The calf is standing in living color today going about his business. Let me put it this way: I don't think that calf was embarrassed. 
"I don't think that anybody can make a comment about what went on if you were not present. The people that have made the comments are not the people who were there. It's like me giving an opinion about what's going on in a laboratory. I'm not there." 
Harkness said he had not called the procedure inhu­mane, but felt it was performed in an inappropriate context. 
SO[DHOMOR[ES1 
We're looking for an enthusiastic individual who wants to get involved m 
JPW 1993 
Apphcalions for JPW Sophomore Chairperson are awdable allhe laforlune Information Desk. Deadline-3 p.m., Mon. Sept .2111 ot Student Activities. Sign up for on interview when returning application. 


ake the Grade 
Cliffs StudyWare cqurse reviews are a ··~--~~.. 
dynamic new way to study for midterms ···--~ 7 
., 
and finals. ftwa ~-~·~-.J~DlUS .t 1 f'~
• Interactive computer so re <::_-.. ~ -work at your own pace xl ~ 
__....,.,F_ 

• 
Hundreds of on-screen questions 

• 
Answer explanations 

• 
Glossary, hints, graphs and figures 

• 
Immediate feedback 



IIIIIIY • CAICIIIS • CIIIISJIY • ICIIIIICS • PIYSICS • SIIJISIICS 
([!]lllff~~ 
Notre Dame Bookstore TheHamines Cliffs Notes Representative on Campus 
----~----­
----~ ------... 
The Observer September 15, 1992 
Houston blanks Giants on four hitter 
HOUSTON (AP) -Willie Blair held San Francisco to an infield single over six innings to lead the Houston Astros to a 5-0 victory over the Giants on Monday night. 
Blair (5-6) was lifted for a pinch-hitter in the sixth after striking out seven and walking two. It was Blair's first win as a starter this season in five starts. Xavier Hernandez allowed three hits over the last three innings for his seventh save. 
San francisco rookie Kevin Rogers (0-1) gave up four runs on six hits in five-plus innings. He struck out five and walked one. 
The Giants' only hit off Blair came when Darren Lewis beat out a slow roller to lead off the fourth. Lewis' roller was fielded by third baseman Ken Caminiti, whose throw barely missed getting Lewis. 
Houston took a 1-0 lead in the fourth when Jeff Bagwell hit his 14th home run of the season. 
The Astros increased their lead to 4-0 in the sixth after a single by Steve Finley, a walk to Caminiti, and a single by Bagwell loaded the bases. Pete Incaviglia singled to score Finley and bring in reliever Mike Jackson. 
Jackson walked pinch-hitter Luis Gonzalez to score Caminiti, and Bagwe[l scored on a sacri­fice fly by Casey Candaele. 
The Astros added a run in the seventh when Craig Biggio doubled and scored on a single by Caminiti. 
Phillies 6, Expos 2 PHILADELPHIA -Philadelphia damaged Montreal's NL East title hopes Monday night as rookie Braulio Castillo's first major league homer, a three­run shot, led the Phillies to a 6­2 victory over the Expos. 
Montreal began the game three games behind first-place Pittsburgh, which played at St. Louis after losing two of three to the Phillies over the weekend while the Expos swept the New York Mets in Montreal. 
Expos starter Brian Barnes 
(6-6) had a perfect game and a 2-0 lead until the bottom of the fifth when Dave Hollins opened with an infield single and Darren Daulton walked. Castillo, who entered the game in the second inning after Stan Javier left due to tightness in his back, then homered to left field. 
The Phi!Iies added a run in the six-th when John Kruk dou­bled with two outs and went to third on a wild pitch. Hollins walked and Daulton lined a run-scoring single to center for his NL-leading lOOth RBI. Daulton is the first Philadelphia player to drive in 100 runs since Mike Schmidt (133) and Juan Samuel (100) in 1987 and the first left-handed batter to do it since Bill White drove in 103 in 1966. 
Philadelphia's Tommy Greene (3-1), making his second start since coming off the disabled list, allowed two runs on seven hits in six innings to earn the victory. He struck' out three and walked one. 

ND/SMC SENIORS 
Now Accepting Applications for Senior Month Committee 
Applications available outside Senior Class Office, 2nd floor LaFortune and Haggar Front Desk, SMC Deadline: September 23, 1992 Questions? Call Chris 283-3486 or Sean 283-1654 

w w 
E E 
D 
D E E L L I I 
v v 
E E R Just Call For Free Delivery R 
Large 15'' Pepperoni Pizza 
FRESH! FRESH! 
FAST! ONLY FAST! 
HOT! 
HOT!
699 
Call Now! 
Tuesday, September 15, 1992 The Observer 
page 13 

Oakland pulls away in West 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) -For now, the Oakland Athletics simply have winning on their mind. 
Next on the list are the Minnesota Twins, whose season hangs in the balance as they prepared-for a three-game series, which began Monday night, against the the A's. It's the final matchup between the AL West's top teams, with the A's holding a six-game lead. 
A sweep by the A's would drop their magic number for clinching the division from 14 to 6 by Wednesday night. 
"That's the best advantage of playing your way into first place," A's manager Tony La Russa said. "You don't have to think about anybody else. All you have to do is keep win­ning." 
The /\s had a chance to keep winning over the weekend with a four-game series against the Seattle Mariners. They swept all four games, providing the Twins with a unique dilemma: Sweep, or fade away. 
"This club's not looking ahead," La Russa said. "We're concentrating on the games we're playing, and that's a re­ally good sign." 
The A's have marched to the top, not with one spectacular run, but with a series of steady winning streaks. The A's have won five straight games at least six different times this season. 
Currently, they're on a  six­ 
game winning streak.  
"You  think  about  it:  
'Minnesota's  coming  in;  

Minnesota's coming in,"' relief ace Dennis Eckersley said. "But what you're really thinking about is, 'We've got a chance to win it. Right now."' 
The pressure is on the Twins. 
"We win all three games. I would say that's a nine-game lead, and that would be real good," Mark McGwire said. He was in the starting lineup Sunday for the first time in 23 days after going on the disabled list with a rib cage injury. 
McGwire said the his return for the Twins was just a coinci­dence. 
"When I first injured it, and we looked at the schedule, the Minnesota series was the one where I'd be back, anyway," McGwire said. "So it's no sur­prise. The injury I had was a three-week injury." 

AP File Photo Dave Stewart and the Athletics are pleasing Oakland fans by surging away from the second-olace Minnesota Twins in the AL East 
Bosio shuts out Boston 
BOSTON (AP) -Chris Bosio tied a Brewers' record by win­ning his eighth consecutive de­cision, pitching four-hit ball for eight innings Monday night to lead Milwaukee over the Boston Red Sox 6-0. 
Milwaukee's first four batters all singled off Danny Darwin {8-8), giving the Brewers a 2-0 lead. Greg Vaughn added a sacrifice fly in the first and a two-run homer in the sixth. 
Bosio {14-5) is unbeaten in 12 starts since July 9. He struck out three, walked none, didn't give up an extra-base hit and didn't allow a runner past first. He threw just 71 pitches -52 for strikes -as he matched the club record for consecutive victories shared by Mike Caldwell, Pete Vuckovich .. and Moose Haas. 
Dwayne Henry finished with a perfect ninth. Robin Yount had three hits, raising his ca­reer total to 3,004. Milwaukee, which began the day trailing AL East leader Toronto by six games. won its third straight. Last-place Boston lost for the fifth time in six games. 
Darwin gave up all six runs and 10 hits in seven innings, struck out four and walked 
Finance Club CAREER NIGHT 
7...9 p.m. Monogram Room Joyce A.C.C. 
TONIGHT 
Firms Attending (as of Sept. 9 ): 
AEtna Life & Casualty  Hewitt Associates  
American National Bank &  LaSalle National Corp.  
Trust Co.  National City Corp.  
Andersen Consulting  National Futures Assoc.  
Baxter Health Care  The Northern Trust Co.  
Comerica Bank  Northwestern Mutual Life/  
Continental Bank  Beckley Agency  
Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.  Old Kent Bank & Trust  
Ford Motor Company  PNC Financial Corp.  
Goldman, Sachs & Co.  Peterson Consulting  
General Mills  Radio Shack  
Great American Insurance  The Travelers  

Seniors: Bring Resumes! Underclass: All Welcome To Talk To Firms. BUSINESS ATTIRE 
one. 
Pat Listach started the first with a single and stole his 50th base. He moved to third on a single by Darryl Hamilton and scored on Paul Molitor's single. 
Yount's single sent Hamilton home and Molitor to third. Yount then stole second, in­creasing Milwaukee's major­league leading steal total to 220, and Vaughn hit a sacrifice fly. 
Milwaukee made it 5-0 in the sixth on Vaughn's 20th homer, following a single by Yount. Hamilton hit an RBI groundout in the seventh after singles by Scott Fletcher and Listach. 
Indians 2, Blue Jays 1 
TORONTO {AP) -Jose Mesa pitched four-hit ball for 8 2-3 innings Monday night as the Cleveland Indians beat Toronto 2-1, cutting the Blue Jays' lead in the AL East to four games over second-place Baltimore. 
Glenallen Hill homered for the Indians, who beat David Cone {2-2) and matched their season high with their fifth consecutive consecutive victory. 
Mesa {7-10) struck out four and walked one before Derek Lilliquist came in following a single by Johbn Olerud. After Candy Maldonado hit an RBI single that left runners on first and third, Steve Olin relieved and walked pinch-hitter Roberto Alomar, loading the bases. Olin then got pinch-hit­ter Rance Mulliniks -batting for just the second time this season -on a groundout for his 26th save. 
The Indians. who also won five straight from Aug. 18-22, have won eight of 11 and are 32-23 since the All-Star break. 
MAPLE LANE BARBERSHOP 
HOURS: MON-FRI 8:00-5:30 SAT 8:00-3:00 2112 South Bend Avenue Appointments if desired 272,6722 Servi11tJ the ?{ptrt 'Dame communityfor over 30 years 
I r 
Tuesday, September 15,1992 
I 
SMC battles St. Joseph's 
I I 
Special to the Observer 
I 
After the 4-0 win over Loyola 
I 
I on Friday, the Saint Mary's soccer team is ready to take on Saint Joseph's College on their own home turf. 
Last year, Saint Mary's and
I 
Saint Joseph's tied the game 2­
I 
2. The Belles were ahead
I 
I 
twice, but both times Saint Joseph's was able to tie the 
I 
score. Tawn Ray is Saint Joseph's outstanding goalie I who has the attention of all the I Belles. 
I 
"Saint Joseph's is a very 
competitive team. They are very intense and physical," re­
I 
calls Saint Mary's soccer coach
I 
Tom VanMeter. 

I 
"They play with a lot of con­
I 
tact, but that is a difference
I 
between Division II and
I I I SPORTS BRIEFS
I 
Division III. Since they are a Division II team, they also have players on scholarship," he said. 
The Belles are recovering from losing four graduating starters. They lost strong play­ers up the middle. The Saint Mary's team is still getting used to each other, although in the game of soccer that can some­times take most of the season. 
"This will be a good test of our abilities, since they are Division II," claimed sopho­more Jennifer Ferry. 
"It is important to play a divi­sion higher. There is a definite advantage in the ratings," stated VanMeter. 
Due to tendonitis in both an­kles, starter Patty Hand is not playing in today's game. 
Ben, Have a ball on your birthday! 
Happy 21~! 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Lisa 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Advertising Account Executive 
The position involves daily interaction with clients and consunters incorporating all aspects of advertising and marketing. 
Please submit a one-page personal statement or resume to Mike Hobbs by Tuesday, Sept 15. Contact Hobbs at 239-6900 for more information. 
The Observer page 14 
Trudeau, Indianapolis ailing 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Jack Trudeau remained hospitalized Monday with a severely bruised back, leaving coach Ted Marchibroda with one healthy quarterback and probably two days to decide what to do next. 
With starter Jeff George still out with a thumb· injury, the Colts waived Mark Herrmann last week to make room for Trudeau, a preseason holdout. But Trudeau lasted only one quarter on Sunday, and third­stringer Tom Tupa finished up in the Colts' 20-10 loss to Houston. 
Indianapolis (1-1) plays on Sunday at Buffalo (2-0). the team Marchibroda served as offensive coordinator before coming to the Colts in January. 
There's a chance the Colts will try to sign another quar­terback -possibly even Herrmann -but the longer they wait, the fewer options they'll have, especially since George has not progressed as quickly as he thought he would. 
'Til have to wait to see how Jeff and Jack are. It's· a gamble, naturally," Marchibroda said. ''I'll have to make a decision on Wednesday. I haven't even looked (at who is available), to be honest. I wouldn't even venture a guess. 
"I talked to Jack this morning and he sounded like he was better, but I'm not sure the doctors are as optimistic as he is," Marchibroda said. ''I'm probably going to wait until Wednesday to see how he is, but he sounded confident." 
Herrmann, waived a day after he quarterbacked the Colts to their first season-open­ing victory in nine years, was on the way to Phoenix for a look by the Cardinals, who lost Timm Rosenbach with a sepa­rated right shoulder on Sunday. 
Sunday night, Herrmann said he hadn't heard from the Colts and wasn't sure what he would do if they asked him to return. 
''I'd have to get some kind of guarantee," he told The Indianapolis News. ''I'd hate to come back for one game and then be gone again." 
Trudeau, who fumbled and then recovered the ball for a 12-yard loss on the first play of the game, hit 4 of 5 passes for 36 yards. He was hit from be­hind by Houston linebacker AI Smith as he scrambled for a 1­yard gain to the Oilers' 20 on the fir~t play of the second quarter. Dean Biasucci kicked a 37 -yard field goal on the next play, the Colts' only scoring until Tupa hit Anthony Johnson with a 3-yard TD pass with 6 seconds left in the game. 
Tupa was 10 for 20 with 128 yards and was intercepted once. 
Marchibroda said the game film showed Trudeau had not been "speared," an illegal hit by the defender's helmet. 
"It was a legitimate hit," he said. 
"Overall, it's hard to beat a team like Houston when you're playing with your third quar­terback," Marchibroda said. "We had the opportunity to make some big plays but didn't. They controlled the game and we never made a big play offensively or defensively." 
The Oilers' Warren Moon was 29 of 39 for 361 yards and two touchdown. 
ALUMNI
Ill 

~!:CLUB 
Friday Night is 
Grad Night 
featuring graduate student band 
"FROM WEST OF HERE" 
must be 21 years old 9,2 
Catch the Action! 
.$ I t¥.~ ' 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan State September 19th 
Round trip bus transportation to Spartan Stadium (Buses leave at 9:30am from CCE) 
Tickets: $15 at the La Fortune Info Desk 

Student tickets to game available through SUB lottery September 15 
Today 
Tuesday, September 15, 1992 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


Boomer and Doug's relationship was never fully accepted by the other bears, who regarded all grubs In a much more traditional way. 
LECTURES 
Tuesday 
3:30 p.m. Graduate Seminar: "Novel Industrial Appli­cations of Supercritical Fluids," Sunggyu Lee, Ph.D. Uni­versity of Akron, Ohio. Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall. Sponsored by the Chemical Engineering Department. 
7:30 p.m. Blessed Mother Lecture Series, video and lecture. Denis Nolan, Director of Queen of Peace. Audi­torium, Hesburgh Library. 
Wednesday 
12:15 p.m. Fall Lecture Series, Racism: Women's Voices, "Ain't Never Loved Before: Stories from the Streets and Brothers of Chicago," Edwina Gateley, minister, speaker, poet and writer. Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Center for Spirituality, Saint Mary's College. 
MENU 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Chicken Romano Italian Bar Beef Stew w/Biscuit Wings and Things Chili Cheese Macaroni Chimichangas Broiled Chicken 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

l'LL 'S\1 1-\0LD\NG 11-\\S 8\G BOOK , lOOKING 
COt-.1\Et-\I>Lt>..TWE. 
I 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Tedder's W.W. II org. 4 Handled a grounder 11 Container for pkgs. 14 Freudian concern 15--as a goose 16 Get cracking 17 Peace, to Ovid 18 Harte story locale 20 Rock star Clapton 22 Three-time N.L. batting champ 23 Ribs in Gothic vaulting 26 Holiday eve in Tel Aviv 
27 Sensational headlines 30 Rye fungus 32--shrew 33 Dearie 35 Ariz. city 36 N.T. book 39 Noise unit 42 Network letters 43 Bird-feeder treat 45 Channel buoy 46 Mideast org.: 1958-61 48 Bewildered 50 Powerful, portable radios 55 Cotton seed pod 56 Rate 57 Ripe for thievery 61 Bring down the house 621ndy 500 need 

65 Smart set &&Cal. time 67 Some 
torpedoes 68 Defer or differ ending 69 Took sustenance 70 U.S. Open golf champ: 1988-89 71 --volente 
DOWN 

1 Turns back 2 Meadow 
mushroom 3 More devious 4"Dolce­
niente" 5 Combiner with . tonic &Slip by 7 Folkways 8 Porter's "Let's 
n 

9 Anglo-Saxon laborer 10 To the nth-­
4::::.+:=+==-l 11 Pursuit ship's weapon 
Pa. ~,-+-:-+':-! 21 Canadian ~~=+:::-+:t-f"!! Indian .-7+::+:::+.::-iliib.'"'"'"::-+:-+:-e-i 24 Matg rass .-;...-~+.:;+.::-F.Ei 25 German seaport 
!!!r~~··· 28 An Afr. beast 
29 Blubber 31 Tic and toe ~-:-+:::+.::-1 divider 
-=-+=+=-+"::+.:::-! 34 Plainsong notational symbol 
BILL WATTERSON 



ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~-::-r.=-r.::-1 
36 Johnny Reb's govt. 37 Eruption 38 Re-echo 40A Scout 
41 Places for Chem. 101 students 
44 Hits home 47 Dutch river 49 Greetings from 
wahines 51 "-Out," 1947film 
.. 
" 

Please take the time to register to vote.This week you can register at the North and South Dining Halls during lunch and dinner. 
-The Observer 
r 
l I 
.. 
page 16 
JONATHAN JENSEN 
GAME POINT 


For Irish in the polls, ties are not even 
"It shouldn't hurt us that bad." 
That was the prevailing thought in the minds of Rick Mirer and the vast majority of the Notre Dame campus after Saturday's stalemate with Michigan. 
After all, the Irish played a tie game with an evenly-matched team, and even showed some spunk with a 10-point fourth-quarter comeback. They did this without the services of their All­American linebacker and best defensive player. 
Most, including Mirer, thought there would be no chance we would be dropped behind the South's Worst Conference champ Texas A&M, and there was certainly no way they would let Michigan leapfrog us, after starting three spots ahead of the Wolverines and playing to a deadlock. 
This thought was wrong. Dead wrong. As in dead national championship hopes, at least for now. 
The national media and coaches have turned the polls into an avenue for exacting revenge on Notre Dame for our supposed "Holier than thou" attitude. The media has always had a love-hate relationship with Notre Dame football over the years, being that they know stories about Notre Dame always attract attention, but most would love to see our noses rubbed in the dirt. 
And that's exactly what they did this week, taking Coach Holtz's play calling in the final 65 seconds of the game and using it to happily nail the Irish's national championship hopes to the wall. They have labeled us the Tying Irish, and it was reported in yesterday's Chicago Tribune that three Associated Press voters, after hearing Mirer's optimism about the tie's impact on the polls, snuck a look at each other as if to say something like, "Guess again Rick." 
We have also all been informed that tie is now a three-letter word, and it is spelled L-0-U. Does this sound like ob­jective reporting, especially from someone who has a stake in the vote for this year's national champion? 
Granted, Holtz's decisions were probably the worst since he put names on the back of our uniforms. Everyone will agree that if the Irish would have instilled the same one-minute drill they successfully employed against Tennessee last year, they would have had a better chance to win the game. But the issue is that if Notre Dame would have driven and still been unable to score, would the writers have dropped us four spots? 
I think the answer is no, and that means the writers have penalized the Notre Dame football program and possibly cost the seniors their shot at a national championship because of two plays, and the philosophy behind them, when they had no direct impact on the outcome of a classic game. 
Holtz has admitted he is not sure he made the right decision, but he did not realize that it may have cost him a chance at his second national champi­onship. It is vengeful, indescribable, and downright unfair. 
INSIDE SPORTS 

•sMC soccer  
see page 14  
•colts hurting  
see page 14  
•AL roundup  
see page 13  

Sports 
Tuesday, September 15, 1992 

Men, women golfers tee off 
By DAVE STUMM 
Sports Writer 

Both the men's and women's golf teams gave the school something to cheer about this weekend as each of them started out impressive in their respective tournaments. 
The men's golf team started off the fall season on the right foot Sunday, as they stormed to a second place finish out of fifteen teams at the Indiana Intercollegiates at the University of Purdue. The Irish finished just eight shots behind tournament winner Ball State. 
Senior co-captain Chris Dayton fired a two-round total of 144, tied for second and one shot out of first place. His counterpart, senior Joe Dennen, shot a 150 and finished tied for tenth. 
Sophomores Mike Chaney and Cole Hanson tied for twelfth with 151 's each. Chris O'Connell rounded out the scoring, coming in with a 155. 
The team's next competition is Thursday at the Cincinnati Invitational, as they hope to capitalize on this strong season opening showing. 
At the Illinois State Redbird Invitational this weekend, the women's team finished a satisfying ninth out of nineteen teams. The team showed a definite improvement over last year, when they finished in eleventh place against the same field. 
Junior Alicia Murray led the team with a three­round 240 (81-77-82). Senior captain Kathy Phares struggled with a 247, weighted by putting trouble. 
Trouble on the greens was the story of the weekend for the Irish, as most of the team had problems with the course's tough greens. Coach Tom Hanlon felt this really kept the team down. "We did not putt well, but we're getting better and better each time we go out." 
Hanlon was satisfied, but not completely happy. "We're more capable than this, and we'll show it next weekend." 
The women prepare this week for the Ferris State Invitational, looking to keep up their gradual improvement. 

Senior captain Mario Tricoci, left, and Jason Fox lead the Irish against Valparaiso tonight. 
SMC volleyball set for home season 
Special to the Observer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team will begin their home season tonight against Division III Concordia University, of River Forset, Illinois, at the Angela Athletic Facility at 7p.m. 
The Observer/Jake Peters 

Last season, the Belles took the Cougars in three games 15-9, 15-9, 15­
9. Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek, who was able to utilize all the players, hopes for a repeat match. 
"This is a game where we have to guard against beating ourselves and getting too lax," stated Schroeder-Biek. 
#23 vs. Valpo 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team has a plan. 
And if they stick to that plan, they will likely chalk up their 22nd consecutive win over Valparaiso tonight at Alumni Field. 
The Crusaders have never beaten the Irish in the 15-year old series, although they gave them quite a scare last season. 
Brendan Dillman rescued Notre Dame with a goal late in the game to give them a 1-0 win. 
'They played us tough last year," Notre Dame coach Mike Berticelli said. "We can't sit back against a team that is or­ganized and will play good defense or we could very well lose." 
Not likely. 

As they showed Friday night against Illinois-Chicago, the Irish can be a very dangerous team. 
In the 7-0 win, five different players scored, and the defense held UIC's explosive offense to just four shots on goal. 
But the burden of being the favorite can be even heavier than the burden of being the underdog. 
"The key to a game that you're expected to win is to go in with a plan and stick to it," Berticelli said. 
Some players who will have key roles in that plan include forwards Jean Joseph, Tim Oates and Bill Lanza, all of whom are expected to lead the Irish offense this season. 
Senior captain Mario Tricoci anchors the defense, along with senior Kevin Pendergast and junior Mike Palmer. Pendergast and Palmer are in their first season on the defense, after shifting from midfield during the preseason and both have proven to be valuable assets on the back line. 
With that kind of talent on both sides of the ball, Valparaiso doesn't appear to pose much of a threat for the Irish, but they have to execute the plan. 
"We need to stick to our tactical plan," Berticelli said. "We have to keep converting our scoring opportunities and keep constant pressure on their de­fense." 
..... 



