~----------~-----------~--~­
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 10 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Registration for voting is organized 
By ANDREW RUNKLE 
Business Editor 
A voter registration drive sponsored by Student Govern­
• Bush denies debate /page 8 
ment will be held from Sept. 14-17 in LaFortune Student Center, and North and South Dining Halls, according to Chris Setti, political awareness com­missioner for student govern­ment. 
Students will be able to regis­ter to vote from 11:30 a.m. to 1 
p.m. in LaFortune and at lunch and dinner in the dining halls, according to Setti. 
Student volunteers will be re­cruited to register voters dur­ing this campaign. 
According to Setti, the cam­paign has a two-fold purpose. The first is to encourage the democratic process. 
"It's not a true democracy unless you vote, make a state­ment. We're providing a ser­vice to get people registered to exercise their democracy," Setti said. 
Secondly, many people are not familiar with how to regis­ter while away from home or how to get and use an absentee ballot. according to Setti. "There will be a convenient polling place on campus for students to use. We want to avoid using absentee ballots because they are a hassle and rarely utilized," he said. 
see VOTERS I page 4 


The Hesburgh Center for International Studies, houses the Kroc Institute for International 
Peace Studies, the Institute for International Peace Studies, and the Kellogg Institute 
for International Development. · 
Crash halts aid for Sarajevo 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herzegovina (AP}-An Italian transport plane crashed Thursday while carrying blankets and other emergency goods to besieged Sarajevo, and a U.N. official said there was no sign that the four crew members survived. 
U.N. officials suspended humanitarian flights to the city pending an investigation of the crash. But Fernando del Mundo, a U.N. spokesman in Geneva, said there was no indication the plane had been hit by gunfire. 
Four U.S. Marine helicopters came under fire as they searched for the wreckage and were forced to leave the scene, U.N. officials said. The helicopters were not hit and there was no indication of who fired at them. 
In Washington, a Pentagon spokesman released a statement that said two CH-53 res­cue craft reported seeing flashes on the ground coming from the muzzles of small arms. It said two Cobra gunships which were low on fuel had earlier broken off from the search. 
All four aircraft, which joined the search at the request of the Italian government, returned unharmed to the amphibious assault ship USS Iwo Jima off the Adriatic coast, according to the statement. The Iwo Jima is monitoring compliance with a U.N. trade embargo against Yugoslavia. 
The crash of the Italian plane and apparent loss of its four crewmen dampened spirits raised earlier in the day by the arrival of the top 
U.N. peacekeeping official to discuss the latest agreement on curbing ethnic fighting around Sarajevo. 
The official, Marrack Goulding, U.N. undersecretary-general for peacekeeping, ex­pressed his own discouragement over the halting moves toward a peaceful settlement. He said there were no signs of Serb fighters turning heavy weapons over for U.N. supervision as their leader promised Wednesday. 
Serb militias ignored similar agreements in the past. 
But Goulding said, "I will go on trying to talk as long as I possibly can.... You can't expect us to build Rome in a day." 
NO student govern.ment happy with volunteer turnout 

By EMILY HAGE 
News Writer 
Student Government is op­timistic about achieving its goals for the 1992-1993 school year, its leaders say. 
"We're definitely on the up," said Student Body Vice President Molly O'Neil. 
So far. the Hurricane Relief Project, headed by Ryan Trza­skowski, University services commissioner, has raised ap­proximately $2500 in affiliation with the Cuban American Union of Student Advocates (CAUSA) project, said Michael Griffin, Student Government chief of staff. The money will go directly to Catholic Charities. 
In preparation for the up­coming presidential election, the Student Union Board ex­pects to invite political journal­ists, commentators, and public officials to speak at Notre Dame, specifically about Catholic life in America today, Griffin said. 
Chris Setti, the political awareness commissioner, is 
heading voter registration on campus from September 14 -17. A mock election will be held on November 2, the day before the election to give the campus "a glimpse ahead," said Griffin. 
A University-wide committee is now considering changing the meal card plan, and the only question now is which campus groups will be involved, Griffin said, mentioning the bookstore, security, and the dining halls. 
Shannon Windsor, executive coordinator of the Special Projects Department, is heading 
Saint Mary's student body president says government may 'rebuild pride' in school 

By JILL HOTEK 
News Writer 
Increasing student involve­ment will be the focus for Saint Mary's 1992-1993 Board of Governance (B.O.G.) and Stu­dent Activities Board (S.A.B.), according to the board's offi­cers. 
Tina Carrara. Saint Mary's Student Body President, would like to "rebuild pride in Saint Mary's," she said. "Students need to put their energy into their school." 
B.O.G. met Monday for a question and answer session regarding the new hours of Health Services, and the new Card Access System for LeMans Hall. B.O.G. also discussed the possibility of holding the student body elections earlier this year to give the student body elects more time to form their committees and boards. Also, a new recycling program is being formed. 
S.A.B. 
met Tuesday and dis­cussed the Back to School Bash planned for Saturday, Septem­ber 5, which includes a picnic and disc jockey, scavenger hunt and bonfire. 

S.A.B. 
has also begun plans for an All School Dance. Julie McCormick, Vice President of Student Affairs, hopes this dance can become a tradition at Saint Mary's. 


"There are a lot of expecta­tions about this dance, and we are committed to this event and the project in Student Gov­ernment, and this "major overhall" is "headed down the path for completion in about a year or so," said Griffin. He added that Student Government is finding "an open ear from the administration." 
According to Griffin, a pro­posal on the "five corners" se­curity issue is being put to­gether with the help of General Council Bill Dailey, and will be taken to area bars. 
It suggests that private se­curity guards patrol the area instead of South Bend police because police are known to scare students, especially those under 21 years old. 
"If there is no opposition from the bar owners or the administration, we might see are proposal enacted next semester," said Griffin. The primary obstacle at this time is funding, which will most likely come from the students, Griffin said. 
Student Government lead-
see GOVT. I page 4 

to the students," McCormick said. 
McCormick said she hopes "students realize that they are the voice of Saint Mary's." Both McCormick and Carrara said they encourage students to come to them with concerns and suggestions. They have office hours Monday through Friday from 7 to 9 p.m. in the Student Government office on the third floor of Haggar Col­lege Center. 
B.O.G. meetings are Mondays from 6 to 7 p.m. in the Women's Alliance Center, and S.A.B. meetings are Tuesday afternoons from 12:15 to 1:15 on the third floor of Haggar. Both are open meetings for Saint Mary's students. 

ND hurricane aid effort seeking contributions 
BY JOHN CONNORTON funneled through Catholic News Writer Charities in Florida and Louisiana. 
In the wake of Hurricane "The tentative plan," said Andrew, the Cuban American Miguel Diaz, a member of Union of Student Advocates CAUSA, "is to have a someone (CAUSA) and the Graduate active in CAUSA deliver the Theological Union (GTU), in money to Miami personally." association with the Hall Although areas in Louisiana President's Council, is will receive funds as well, sponsoring Notre Dame Florida, especially Miami and Family in Action to aid the surrounding areas, is humanitarian relief efforts in likely to receive more money. Florida and Louisiana. "We don't know the 
Tables, manned by breakdown of funds exactly, members of the GTU, have but it will probably be been set up in LaFortune, somewhere in the area of North and South dining halls, 60/40 or 70/30," in favor of and the Center for Social Florida, added Diaz. Concerns to handle student Notre Dame, far way from contributions. Money will be see CAUSA I page 4 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
America needs new world paradigm 
"I most sincerely wish that some more liberal plan might be laid and executed for the Benefit of the rising Generation, and that our new constitution may be distinguished for Learning and Virtue," wrote Abigail Adams in a letter to her husband, John Adams. 
Imagine how vital-------­correspondence must have been during these formative years. Virtually everyone had the opportunity to influence the shaping of a new country, a new society and a new definition o life. 
For instance, a merchant may have written Thomas Jefferson asking that states be sovereign. A farmer may have urged the writers of the Declaration of Independence to include a 
I t grievance against the presence of British troops in the colonies. 
In the history of the United States, there has never been a more crucial time (crucial in its impact on defining life as we know it today) than 'ust prior to the revolution and the framing o the Constitution-that is, until now. 
Unbeknownst to many, not only the United States, but the rest of the world as well has reached a sort of impasse in the course o human history. We have proceeded through the Renaissance, the Enlightenment, the Age of Science and Reason, the Industrial Age, and currently find ourselves in what many are calling the Information Age. 
The immensity of the globe has been reduced by fiber optics, fax machines and cellular phones. And what has been our response? We have stumbled in our ability to carry on not only inter-human relationships, but also the equally important human-earth relationship. 
The lives defined for us by our ancestors no longer seem to be applicable. We have shed our self identities as handed down to us from our predecessors. Today, just as Abigail Adams urged in the 18th century, we need to lay down a new constitution that will benefit future generations. 
We have reached a time when we must redefine our lives by creating a new code of life for the global community that is rapidly taking shape. We must not be shortsighted in our effort to redefine the world, we must not fail to realize the importance of all life on earth and we most certainly must make this new definition one that will embrace frugality in order to relieve us o our obsession with consumption and create a sustainable society. 
I imagine that much of the correspondence that goes on today, not unlike that of our forefathers, will be read in 200 years and considered significant in the definition of the world as it will then be known. 
Today we will write not about a constitution that will govern a nation, but a cosmology that will be the foundation of the earth and its inhabitants. 
Hopefully, what we write will read something like this, "Dear President Clinton, I most sincerely wish that we might create a more liberal cosmology that might be laid and executed for the Benefit of the rising Generation, and that our new cosmology may be distinguished by a reverence for all life on earth." 
Today's Staff 

News Production 

The Observer 
FORECAST 
Mostly sunny Friday with highs in the 80's. A chance of showers Saturday with highs in the upper 80's 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  58  42  
Atlanta  84  67  
Bogota  73  43  
Boston  62  55  
Cairo  9t  73  
Chicago  79  62  
Cleveland  79  68  
Dallas  89  69  
Detroit  78  68  
Indianapolis  79  70  
Jerusalem  91  68  
London  64  55  
Los Angeles  81  65  
Madrid  88  55  
Minneapolis  72  51  
Moscow  81  50  
Nashville  78  66  
New York  77  68  
Paris  66  59  
Philadelphia  84  68  
Rome  81  66  
Seahle  71  50  
South Bend  82  58  
Tokyo  90  79  
Washington. D.C.  85  66  


COLD WARM STATIONARY Pr9ssura 
H L 



HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW 
Friday, September 4, 1992 
© 1992 Accu-Weather, Inc. 


{) u 
ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Emily Hage Whitney Sheets Poncho Lozano Susan Marx Sandy Wiegand Cheryl Moser 
Melissa Cusack 
Sports Systems 
Quaalude Matt Carbone Jason Williams 
Viewpoint Accent 
Jeanne Blasi Jeanne Blasi 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING September 3 
VOLUME IN SIIAHES NYSEINDEX 
237,866,160 +0.11 to 230.12 

S&P COMPOSITE 
+0.00 to 417.98 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
+1.89 to 3,292.20

UNCHANGED 587 

GOLD 
-$2.30 to $339.40 oz 
SILVER 
+$0.022 to $3.692 oz 






TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Mitterrand defends EC treaty
• PARIS -President Francois Mitterrand, risking his political prestige in a live televised debate, said Thursday that France would suffer damage of historical proportions if it rejects the Maastricht treaty on European union. The 75-year­old president. appearing in his first TV debate since 1988, said defeat of the treaty in a referendum on Sept. 20 "would be a serious blow to French history and to the French." He said it would be "absurd" for voters to be swayed by their personal feelings for him. Polls show voters almost evenly di­vided over the treaty. which envisages political and economic union for the 12 nations of the European Community. Many European leaders say a "no" vote by the French would doom the accord. 


NATIONAL 
Beer Comoa~ tries to get in Videos 
MARKET UPDATE 

INDIANA 

Two armed men surrender to police 
• 
GREENSBURG, Ind. -A day-long standoff be­tween two armed Greensburg men and about 20 police officers ended Thursday night when the suspects emerged from a wooded area and surrendered, state police said. Ronnie Linger, 19, and Charles Reynolds, 25, were arrested without incident at about 6 p.m. and put in the Decatur County Jail, said Sgt. Phil Mohr. a detective with the Indiana State Police. The standoff began after Linger and Reynolds shot a third man at a home about four miles south of Greensburg in a do­mestic dispute, Mohr said. The man Linger and Reynolds reportedly shot, Jerry Loonen, took two bullets in the lower half of his body, according to Mohr. He was treated at Methodist Hospital in Indianapolis and released, hospital administrator Jill Beatty said. "There was a woman involved that was a point of contention in this thing," Mohr said. 

• 
WHITESTOWN, Ind. -Family members say they'll move a deceased Plainfield woman to another cemetery after employees at Lincoln Memory Gardens found her casket mistakenly buried in another woman's grave. The caskets of Gertrude Snow of Plainfield and Nora Hodges of Indianapolis apparently were switched while awaiting burial in the late 1970s, cemetery officials said. The mixup was noticed Tuesday when relatives were preparing to bury Snow's husband next to her in the southern Boone County cemetery. "We feel terrible. We've been visiting and saying prayers to a piece of granite that we thought Gertie was in," said Bob Burcham, son-in-law of Gertrude and William Snow. "This is an isolated incident," said Tom Meyer, vice president of the cemetery. "It has not happened in the past and certainly will not happen in the future. It was a bad error. That's an understatement, but we did everything we could to correct it." 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
In 1929: Eight killed as Transcontinental Air Transport downed by lightning over New Mexico. 
In 1936: Popular front representing Basques and Catalonians re­placed Giral Cabinet in Spain. 
In 1945: Reports indicated that A-bomb fallout in Hiroshima was still killing at least 100 a day. 
In 1957: Militia barred nine blacks from Little Rock white high school on governor's orders. 
In 1964: Chilean moderate Eduardo Frei Montalva was chosen president over People's Front candidate Salvador Allende. 

page 3 

Friday, September 4, 1992 The Observer 
Hurricane victims coaxed to tent cities 
HOMESTEAD. Fla. (AP) ­Building inspectors and social workers went door-to-door Thursday, trying to coax more people out of their hurricane­ravaged and possibly danger­ous homes and into military tent cities. 
More rain fell on the area smashed by Hurricane Andrew on Aug. 24, making busy roads slippery and weighing down soaked, sagging ceiling mate­rials exposed by the storm. At least four homes collapsed overnight because of the rain, Homestead Police Maj. Chuck Habermehl said. 
No new injuries were re­ported, but relief officials were frustrated that so few people were willing to take advantage of the five military tent cities. Federal officials said they might put in laundries, televisions and videocassette recorders to lure more people into tents -only 150 families were in them Thursday. 
Democratic presidential nominee Bill Clinton joined the long line of politicians visiting southern Florida, flying to the heavily damaged Homestead Air Force Base that President Bush promised to rebuild even though some Democrats in Congress are opposed. 
The rain. which forecasters said would pick up again this weekend when another tropical wave strikes the state, damp­ened some of the earlier opti­mism about the huge relief and rebuilding effort that ha brought nearly 34,000 military personnel to southern Florida. 
"Today, I was hoping to see the progress I'm hearing about, but it was hard to see," Linda Shelley, secretary of the Florida Department of Community Affairs, said after a helicopter tour. 
Residents she talked to com­plained of not enough ice, wa­ter and toilets and too many mosquitoes. The Air Force helped Dade County with aerial spraying. State officials asked pool companies to volunteer to clean up stagnant swimming pools where mosquitoes have started breeding. 
The White House announced that the Small Business Admin­istration had speeded up its handling of loan applications from hurricane victims in Florida and Louisiana, reducing the usual 30-day processing period to seven days. 
SBA Administrator Pat Saiki handed out checks totaling $155,580 to the first five hurri­cane victims approved for loans, all homeowners. The loans are at rates as low as 4 percent and for as long as 30 years. 
The state Department of La­bor reported Thursday that 60,000 homes had been de­stroyed in Florida, leaving 250,000 people homeless. It said 86,000 people were thrown out of work by the storm. More than 400,000 people remained without elec­tricity. 
Other federal and local agen­cies have produced widely varying estimates of the num­ber of homes destroyed. 
State officials also said 1.9 million meals had been served at 110 sites. 
As of Thursday, the hurricane was blamed for 51 deaths in Florida, Louisiana and the Bahamas. Damage in Florida has been estimated at $20 bil­lion. 
Five tent cities in Homestead and Florida City with room for 3,800 people were up, but only a few hundred people used them Wednesday night. The Army said seven more could be built, bringing the capacity to 20,000 people. 

1RY OUR EXCmNG NEW SHRIMP DISHES. 
Shoney's four great new shrimp dinners. They're all just plain delicious. New Shrimp Stir-Fry, Grilled Shrimp, Shoney's Special Recipe Shrimp and Buffalo Shrimp with a hot dipping sauce. All four are served with your choice of potato or rice and, 
~~l~~~~~~a~~~;~~~:tfas:~~~ ~HONEV'~ 
Salad and Fruit Bar. You're CJ ,I CJ shrimply going to love them. SHRIMP DINNERS ® 
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 

Junior William McCarthy buys "the shirt" from senior Adanna Fails at LaFortune. Shirts have already sold at a record pace that is expected to go up with the coming home football games. 
Flash floods surprise Afghanistan villages 
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP)-A churning wall of water, mud and rock swept through the fertile valleys of the Hindu Kush Mountains, leaving hundreds of people dead or missing, a British-based charity said Thursday. 
Rescue workers were just starting to dig bodies out of the 6-foot deposits of mud, the Halo Trust charity said, and esti­mated the death toll could rise to 3,000. 
Flash floods wiped out entire villages in the Salang, Dhor­band and Shaltuh valleys, de­stroying orchards, irrigation canals and up to 1,000 homes, said Guy Willoughby, head of Halo Trust. The organization was clearing mines scattered in the area during the 14-year war between the former Com-
Bring this coupon to Little Professor and receive 


$1 OF 


a purchase of $5 or more or. .. 



$20FF 
a purchase of $10 or more or... 


$30F 


a purchase of $15 or more. 
One discount selection per customer; offer valid only on regularly-priced books in stock and not valid with other discounts. 
~~BLITTLE PROFESSORR 
~-/ OOK CENTE . 
We help you find books y01/lllove. 
Ironwood Plaza North • near the New Martin's State Road 23 at Ironwood • South Bend 277-4488 • Mon.-Sat.: 10:00-9:00 • Sunday: 10:00-5:00 
munist government and Muslim rebels that succeeded it. · 
Willoughby said in a state­ment that some of the de­stroyed homes in the narrow valleys -flanked by barren slopes and snow-capped peaks -were built by returning refugees. 
The statement said at least 450 people were killed and an­other 500 were missing in two areas where his organization has been working. It added that many of the victims were trapped in their homes by the mud. 
Officials don't know when the 33-foot wall of water swept through the area, about 55 miles northeast of Kabul. The Defense Ministry said it be­lieved the flash flood occurred early Wednesday. 
Notre Dame Law 
honored Judge Robert in a ceremony Tburs­and dedicated the 
robing champer of 
Mpot COli · ··· ·to 

Notre Dame gradu­"'~~:. "'"·"' 1930 Notre J)tpne graduate,.. Qt~nt 
rt<>·nni;.., prosecuti:ng lttTnrtun/ or St. ·· h . In 1939, h as Indiana's 3rd District tative to the U,S. . where he served until 1~4~<.F<Jr . . C(.l~!tf:i'l~~ ""'"...'''u'" session, as 
of World WarJJ; 
returned to law and continued in the South Bend 

1957 when .Pt~iddent Eisenhower appointed bim to District Court Northern District of 
· He .is currently a seniorjudge for the district
Grant also serves on the Emergency. Court to which he was 
in 1976. This 


[X[RCISE 

Does Your Heart Good. (1American Heart Association 
-----------------~-----~--­
page 4 1he Observer t-naay, ::;eptemoer 4, 1~~2 

SECURITY BEAT 
THURSDAY, AUG 27 
9 a.m. An art sculpture on the west lawn of LeMans Hall was vandal­ized between 10 p.m. on Aug. 27 and 9 
a.m. on Aug. 28. The damage was estimated at $5,000. 
5:45 p.m. A student reported her car had been broken into while parked in the Galvin Life Science Building parking lot. A radio was taken from the car. 
2:45 a.m. A student reported her car was broken into while parked in the McCandless parking lot. A purse with miscellaneous items was taken. 
MONDAY, AUG 31 
1:17 p.m. An Alumni Hall resi­dent reported the theft of his locked bicycle from the bike rack at his dorm. 
10:25 a.m. Notre Dame Security and Notre Dame Fire responded to the report of a University employee having heart trouble at the Bookstore. The victim was treated on the scene and released. 
4:08p.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of his unlocked bicycle from outside of Gate 10 of the JACC. 
5:21 p.m. Notre Dame Security and Notre Dame Fire responded to the report of a student suffering from a seizure at the Rockne Building the victim was transported by ambulance to St. Joseph Medical Center. 
5:55 p,m_ A visitor to the Univer­sity reported that his vehicle had evi­dently been struck be a golf ball while the vehicle was parked in the D-6 parking lot. 
TUESDAY, SEPT 1 
11:05 a.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of his student I. D. from his tray while at the North Dining Hall. 
2:50 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of several copies of the Freshman registrar book from LaFortune Student Center. 
3:06p.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of six books from a book sale in the Law School. 
3:20 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported theft of his bicycle from outside of Stepan Chemistry. 
4:30 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a two vehicle accident in the C-1 parking lot. No injuries were reported. 
6:23 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resi­dent reported that a golf ball had ap­parently struck her vehicle while the vehicle was parked in the D-6 parking lot. 
WEDNESDAY, SEPT 2 
10:24 a.m. A Fisher Hall resident reported the theft of his bicycle from the bike rack outside his dorm. 
3:32 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a two vehicle accident in the C-1 parking lot. No injuries were reported. 
4:00 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of his locked bicycle from outside of Keenan Hall. 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASSC£IATION MEMORIAL PR(l;RAM., 

1-800-242-8721 

American Heart Association 
This space provided as a public service. 'cJ 1992, American Heart Association 

Parking spaces relocated for the 1992 football season 
Special to The Observer 
Between 800 to 1,000 parking spaces have been relocated for the upcoming football season as the result of construction of a new baseball stadium southeast of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center, according to Phillip Johnson, assistant director of security. 
The baseball stadium is being built in the area known as Blue Field, a grass parking lot east of the Gold Field lot. To make up for the lost space, more parking 

GOVT 
continued from page 1 
ers were busy over the summer. Besides catching up on their academics in order to have more time to dedicate to Student Government, O'Neil said, they set goals for the school year and coordinated the freshman summer preori­entation and transfer student orientation programs. 
has been made available in White Field, which is located northeast of campus near Juniper and Douglas Roads. 
A special traffic pattern will continue to be used three hours before each game. Most roads near the University will be one­way toward Notre Dame Sta­dium. Since the south parking lots are expected to fill early due to the loss of parking in Blue Field, fans are encouraged to head straight for White Field. To avoid delays, Johnson sug­gested travelling to White Field via Cleveland Road to south-
Most of the funding for these programs came from the Alumni Association, said O'Neil. She said she hopes the orientation programs will become an official Student Government responsibility. Student Government planned activities such as a mixer, cam­pus tours, a trip to the Grotto, and the first mass of the class of 1996. 
Student Government has formed a steering committee of 25 to 50 people for the Preju­dice Reduction Project, which 


CAUSA 
continued from page 1 

the trail of destruction in the 
Southeast, has not been spared 
from Hurricane Andrew. Many 
students, including Diaz', have 
family in the effected areas. 

'I've spoken to my family and 
TO DAY'S 



IHE DAY 
<'WEfcomE {at 

the situation is pretty bad down there,' Diaz said. 
Hurricane Andrew, which struck the Southeastern United States last week, destroyed over 63,000 homes and caused an estimated $20 billion in damage in Florida alone. Over 44,000 Louisianans are homeless and storm damage is over $300 mil­lion. 

Stop Smoking. 
American Heart Association 


9Jatty 

cNEw 'Jacufty and ~ta{{ cyou au cotdiaf[y inu-itEd to attEnd an cJ/ou d'oEWJ'l.H c:REaption at thE 'll..niuE'l.i.it!J Club o{ cNotu :DamE cMain LoungE cNohE :DamE cfluEnUE (ned to thE cJ/Hbutgh CEntn} 
<'WEdnEj_day -~~phmbn 9, 1992 
4:00 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. 

UNIVERSITY CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 

bound Juniper Road; or, via Ironwood Road to westbound Douglas Road. 
Fans travelling to campus via the Indiana Toll Road are en­couraged to use exit 72 on the west side of South Bend or exit 82 at Mishawaka. Those using the Notre Dame exit-exit 7 7 -should proceed north on 
U.S. 33 to Cleveland Road and then east to southbound Juniper. Signs are posted along these routes directing fans to parking. 
Transpo, the South Bend pub-

they hope will become as popu­lar as the Notre Dame Encoun­ters. 
Because the day for the homeless was so successful last year, Student Government plans to have a Notre Dame for the Homeless week this year to raise money for the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
"We want to raise money and to raise awareness on campus of homelessness in America," said Griffin. 

VOTERS 
continued from page 1 
Even if students are presently registered in their home dis­trict, Setti recommends re-reg­istering locally. "If you re-reg­ister here, your registration at home cancels and you can vote conveniently on-campus, with­

--------------, out the use of absentee ballots," 
Setti said. 
Student Government is also planning a mock election to be held Nov. 2, the day before the general election. Students, faculty, and staff will be able to lie transportation system, will provide shuttle service between White Field and the stadium before and after each game. A stadium express shuttle is also available from St. Mary's Col­lege and from area hotels in South Bend. For more infor­mation on shuttle service, call Transpo at 233-2131. 

Traffic control for the Notre Dame football season is pro­vided by the Indiana State Po­lice, St. Joseph County Police, South Bend Police, St. joseph County Civil Defense/Weather Watch and University security. 
Student Government leaders are impressed with the unusually high number of vol­unteers in Student Government this year, especially from the class of 1996, Griffm said. The Student Government cabinet alone is outstanding, approxi­mately 45 members, as opposed to the usual 12 or so, said O'Neill. 
"More than in any other year I've been here," said Griffin, a senior, "I've never seen more people involved." 
cast ballots in the dorms and centralized campus locations, according to Setti. 
Results will be available Nov. 3 and will include a dissection and comparison of the student, faculty, and staff vote. 
"Notre Dame has been over­looked as being politically di­versified, but we don't really know. This is a way to find out how the campus really votes," Setti said. 
"It will be interesting to com­pare how the faculty matches­up with the students and how the dorms' voting compares," Setti said. 
Introducing... ~fll \WliD fi § il$ [g) 
Complete LSAT review plus answers to the ten most important questions about law school! 
~ All on a 3.5" disk! 
~ For use with Hteercard on the Mac. cup~d~~i~~iJ~O.ooi~--­
1LawDisk, P.O. Box 571, Notre Dame, IN 46556 I I Name School I 
lt:::~---------------------------------------1 
I Signature or Customer I I All actual LSAT questions within this work are used with the permission of Law I 1School Admission Services, Inc., Box 2000, Newtown, PA 18940, the copyright I Iowner. Law Services does not endorse this product. 1 
©convri2ht 1992 LawDisk .J
L 

--------~~----------­
MACRI'S PIZZA & ITALIAN RESTAURANT Pizza & Pasta-Sandwiches-Appetizers 25 Pizza ToRpings & 1 lb. burgers Free Deltvery to Campus SEPTEMBER SPECIALS:(expires 9/30/92) 
PICKUP ONLY $1 off any 12" or 14" Pizza $2 off 16" or 18" Pizza 
Only with this ad 
52303 Emmons Rd. Georgetown Shopping Center (next to Club Shenanigan's) 

rn;::;:;;, PARAMOUNT <OMMUNICATIONS <OMPANY..,_. 
~.C!J). IUCOPYII6HICJtniYP:=r::= ~ I ~ } 
Cinema at the Snite 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 , 9:45 
-~------­
tC)Jf'l:lP.!"i! . .>d~l 

. ---------· -The Observei -• ---------· -------------· • -· -· · · ---· -· · · · · · --· · · 
Friday, September 4, 1992 


Kids' behavior linked Man takes hostages in
to mom's cigarettes 
CHICAGO (AP) -The more Calif. But she said the re­
a PAstore 
cigarettes a mother smokes, the searchers appear to have used SHIPPENSBURG, Pa. (AP) -Amore behavior problems her as reliable methods as possible, 
man with a shotgun took 24children are likely to have, given the limitations of the 
people hostage today during a
researchers say. data. Women who smoke at least a "There's thousands of toxins 
five-hour standoff inside a pack a day have children with in cigarette smoke," any one of Kmart store. About 30 other twice the rate of extreme be­which could affect behavior in 
people escaped out a back door before he surrendered, wit­havior problems -such as children, she said. 
nesses said.
anxiety, disobedience or conflict Surprisingly, Weitzman said, with others -compared with smoke exposure rivaled other 
Fifteen people were released by mid-afternoon, and the manchildren of non-smokers, the major stresses on children ­
-who police identified as
researchers say. very low birthweight, poverty, 
Larry Eugene Fry, 28, of
Refraining from smoking only chronic illness, parents' divorce Carlisle, Pa.. -walked out ofduring pregnancy didn't help, -in being linked with elevated 
according to the study rates of serious behavior the store at about 3 p.m. Nine people were still in the store
published in September's Pedi­problems. 
when Fry surrendered, police
atrics journal. "When you add these up, they Children of pack-a-day moth­cluster together and multiply said. 
Eight elderly people, a preg­ers who smoked after the each other," Weitzman said. 
nant woman and a man withchild's birth had problems just For example, a boy born heart trouble were among those as often as children of pack-a­weighing less than 3.3 pounds 
released earlier. No injuries
day women who smoked during to a mother who smokes at were reported.
pregnancy and afterward. least a pack a day was eight Police contacted Fry by call­Smoking less than a pack a times more likely to show ex­ing the store. State police Sgt. 
day also was linked to elevated treme behavior problems than Richard Morris said he made norates of behavior problems, but a normal-weight boy of a non­
demands and was
the rates were not as high as smoking mother, the study said. 
"cooperative" during the inci­
for heavier smokers, the re­If that high-risk boy also had searchers said. They used data asthma, his likelihood of having dent. 
State Police Trooper Karen
from a Labor Department sur­extreme behavior problems Dutrow said Fry was believed to 
vey in which mothers of 2,256 was 19 times higher than the youngsters ages 4 to 11 were normal-risk boy, the study said. be upset over a domestic dis-1 interviewed. Weitzman's team said ma­
pute. Police said Fry could face"We are aware of no other ternal smoking during and after such ch.arges as kidnapping,study to date that has investi­pregnancy may alter brain 
reckless endangerment and
gated the relationship between structure or function, with maternal smoking and behavior long-term effects on children's 
making terroristic threats. The gunman entered theproblems in children," said the behavior. 
store about 9:30 a.m., said
authors. led by Dr. Michael Smoking also might alter ma­Weitzman, associate chair of ternal behavior in such a way Kmart employee Karen Wea­gley.
pediatrics at the University of to elicit problems in children, Rochester School of Medicine in the researchers said. Or the New York state. findings could even mean that Fierce shooting spree in the South Bronx 
"It does not surprise me at all mothers who smoke are more that this association exists," intolerant of children's behavior said Dr. Loraine Stern, an as­and more likely to report it is indication of frightening new 'fact of life' 
sociate clinical professor of pe­bothersome, they said. diatrics at the University of Weitzman cautioned that the NEW YORK (AP) -Vivian and randomness that even the than yourself." California. Los Angeles. study does not prove maternal Andersen sat on· her stoop, case-hardened cops of the 41st Slightly more than 4,000 
Data from biased observers, smoking causes behavior prob­framed by the pockmarks of precinct were amazed. people in the city have been such as mothers, have prob­lems in children, "but it very bullet holes in the stone door­The attack reflects a killed and wounded in gunfire lems. she cautioned Thursday strongly suggests there is way. Her face was distorted by relatively new and terrifying this year, compared with about by telephone from Newhall, something there." pain and she was crying. fact of life on New York's mean 3,900 for the same period of 
"It hurts," said Vivian, fin­streets: spray shootings, in 1991, police said. Although no r---------------------------------------------------, gering the cast on her right which bystanders are killed or breakdown was available, many 
BUY ONE, GET ONE FREE! foot. It was covered with graf­injured. were bystanders. 
fiti-like scrawls of friends who Law enforcers say such About 1 a.m. on Aug. 26, aWAFFLE CONE had wished her a speedy re­shootings reflect the increasing van pulled up on Longwood Av­covery. availability of illegal automatic enue and let out passengers In another setting, she might weapons and their use by pro­who, without warning, began 1635 Edison Road, South Bend ($'.......,,..~ have been a 17 -year-old college liferating drug gangs. spraying the pavement with 
kid recovering from a skiing "It's a trend," said Assistant gunfire.
,(2 blocks east of N.D. Stadium) ;n)ggn!­
accident. But this was New Police Chief Thomas Gallagher, Some 20 people, hanging out York City's blighted South the Bronx's top cop. "One thing on the sidewalk and fire
•I 01991. I Con't lei-tt'a ~ ltd I Bronx, a university of hard is that there are a lot of escapes on a hot night, scat­
I
1Piease present coupon before ordering. One coupon per knocks. younger people involved, and tered in panic. Twelve were hit, :customer per visit. Offer good only at address above. Not valid in 1 Vivian was among 12 people when you're young you think none fatally, as bullets rico­:combination with any other offer. Expires 9/11/92. 1 who survived, somehow, a you're immortal, and you have cheted off the street and build­shooting spree of such ferocity little regard for people other ings. After a mad minute, the
L---------------------------------------------------J 


VICKI PAULA SUSI 


University Hair Stylists Welcomes You Back! 
We are a full service salon and we carry a full line of Paul Mitchell and Nexxus products 
239--5144  Hours: Mon ~  Fri 9 a.m. ~  9 p.m.  
call or stop in  Sat 9 a.m.  ~  4 p.m.  
DEBBIE  MARY  

van sped away. 
A week later, police reported no new developments. But au­thorities believe some drug gang was trying to scare off ri­vals. 
Joshua Burrell was at his front door after closing up the grocery store where he works as a clerk when the shooting started. "I was putting the key in the lock and I heard it and I came running," he said. 
He found Vivian bleeding from head and foot wounds, and others lying about with a variety of wounds. 
"I got all hyped. There must have been 80 shots fired," Burrell said. 
r-----------------·-----------------------------­
' ' 
New for '92 · 
Play like a Champion Today 

Spirit Towels) 
Catch the spir~ and own apiece of history ! e sane tine. A M.JST have item! 
i 

To get yrurs just c!Jltact any merrtler of j 
S. A. R. G. Q. ! 

\)~i_~ Student AIUim< Rolobo"' G•ouo ri'.J:'IJ-i 
~.l-Also available at the ·Oo ; Alumni Office -Main Building ! 
--~----------­
page 6 The Observer Medication marketing case settled 
EAST HANOVER, N.J. (AP) -Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corp. and all 50 states reached a $21 million settlement in an antitrust case involving the schizophrenia medication Clozaril. 
The agreement announced today ends a lawsuit brought in December 1990 by attorneys general in New Jersey, New York and 31 other states over the marketing of the Sandoz drug. 
Until 1991, the drug was dis­tributed only if patients also purchased an expensive blood­monitoring service from Care­mark Inc. of Lincolnshire, Ill., with which Sandoz had an ex­clusive contract. 
Dr. David Winter, Sandoz' vice 
president of scientific and 
external affairs, said the moni­
toring was necessary because 
of side effects that caused at 
least 50 deaths in Europe. 
But the monitoring arrange­
ment pushed the average cost 
of treatment to $172 per week, 
or $9,000 per year, prompting 
the lawsuits. 

i Achance to study. overseas 
The Observer/Pat McHugh 
"Our lawsuit stopped Sandoz 

John Welle, associate professor of romance language and
from continuing a rip-off policy 
that denied millions of Ameri­

literature, talks to seniors and graduate students about the 
cans the chance for normal 

Fulbright scholarships, which are given for graduate work 
lives," Attorney General Robert 

abroad. For more information, contact Mr. Welle at 463 Decio. 
Abrams of New York said in 
announcing the agreement. 


Welcome Students 




BAPTIST· Student Union 
Bible Study -Fellowship -Fun 
Join September 7U5I 7 p.m. 
• at Center for Social Concerns 

Attention Students! 
NBD Bank has 

you needl 
• 
No-Fee Checking and Savings Accounts •Loans 

•Computer 
Banking with NBD Express •AlMs 

• 
Extended Banking Hours 


Visit NBD Bank located a few blocks from the Notre Dame campus. 

NBD Bank  
18083 S.R. 23 North  
273-1280  @-­ 

Member FDIC UNO!R 
--------------------~------1 
. Friday, September 4, 1992 
Donations accumulating for tidal wave survivors 
EL TRANSITO, Nicaragua (AP) -Among donations that piled up Thursday were two child-size coffins -an un­needed reminder that the 800 villagers lost almost as many lives in a tidal wave as all of Florida did in Hurricane An­drew. 
The quake-spawned wave that smashed into Nicaragua's southwest coast Tuesday night devastated this little fishing 
On Thursday, waves broke upon the beach with a calm, stately rhythm. 
Francisco and Rosibel Avita walked barefoot along the surf, poking delicately at mounds of sand, searching for a daughter stolen by the sea. 
Much of the village nestled in a gentle bay 35 miles west of Managua is now a gruesome scatter of shattered roofing, 
town. broken concrete, splintered 
By Thursday morning, 14 wood. bodies had been recovered in El Dozens of people spent the Transito and 10 children night in the pews of a Catholic remained missing and feared Church on the hill above the dead, according to federal town, sleeping amid bales of health officials here. clothing and boxes of food do­
Capt. Guillermo Guevara, nated by Nicaraguans and for­chief of the Civil Defense De­eign agencies. partment, told ambassadors in Health Ministry nurses Managua on Thursday that 116 stacked medicine atop the altar. people were confirmed dead in Volunteers outside sorted beans this Central American nation, from rice, canned juice from 350 were injured and about canned tuna. Some ladled out 700 houses destroyed. He said bowls of hot milk from a earlier that 150 people were cauldron heated over a wood missing. fire. 

CLUB SHENANIGAN'S 
52303 Emmons Hoad Georgetown Shopping Center (one mile north or campus I 
271-1727 

STUDY THIS 
S18,000FOR COLLEGE OFFER. 

You can earn over $13,000 during a standard enlistment in the Army Reserve. 
Qualify for the Montgom­ery GI Bill and you could receive another $5,040 for college or vocational school. It adds up to a good future. 
And that's for only part­time service-usually one weekend a month plus two weeks' Annual Training. 
Think about it. Then think about us. Then call. 
(219) 234-4187 
BE AU YOU CAM BE. 
ARMY RESERVE 
-

-rnaay, ~er:nernoer 4: 1~~<::: 


ANC won't talk until prisoners are freed 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -The African Na­tional Congress today ruled out resuming talks with the gov­ernment until violence is checked and all political prison­ers are freed. 
Until these demands are met it would be pointless to resume constitutional negotiations, the black group told a news confer­ence following a three-day meeting of its National Execu­tive Committee. 
This means a continuation of the country's political stale­mate, now in its third month, and comes in the face of inter­national appeals for an end to . the standoff. 
British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd led a European Community delegation this week that held talks with black and white leaders in hopes of finding ways to bring them back together. 
C.onstitutional Affairs Minister Roelf Meyer today said the gov­ernment offered reasonable solutions to try to satisfy the ANC. The black group dis­missed them. 
"We simply cannot accept vague assurances that steps are to be taken to curb the vio­lence," the ANC said in a statement. "We have learned the hard way that such assur­ances from the de Klerk regime mean very little." 
The ANC accused President de Klerk's government of "delay and doublespeak" in re­sponding to demands issued in June, when it halted political negotiations to protest violence in black townships. 
The demands included the immediate release of 400 pris­oners the ANC considers politi­cal detainees, election of a mul­tiracial transitional government and "practical steps" to end township violence. 

The Observer/Pat McHugh 

Life's a picnic 
Children of Notre Dame graduate students enjoy the nice weather at the Graduate Student Welcome Picnic at the O'Hara-Grace Townhouses. 
U.S.-Taiwan jet sales upset China 

Happy Birthday, Matt Nielsen Love, Mom Sept. 5 
1973~1992 
BEIJING (AP) -China threatened today to withdraw from international arms control talks because of President Bush's decision to sell 150 fighter jets worth $6 billion to Taiwan. 
China summoned U.S. Ambassador Stapleton Roy to the Foreign Ministry and lodged a strong protest, the state-run Xinhua news agency reported. 
It quoted Vice Foreign Minis­ter Liu Huaqiu as telling Roy that if the United States pro­ceeded with the sale of the F­16s, "China would find it diffi­cult to stay in the meeting of the five on arms control issues." 
The United States, Britain, France, China and Russia-the major international arms suppliers -began talks last year on measures to reduce weapons sales, particularly to Third World countries in un­stable regions. 
A withdrawal by China could derail U.S. efforts to prevent sales of Chinese missiles to Syria or other nations in the Middle East. 
In Washington, the White House declined to respond to China's objections. 
Bush announced the sale Wednesday in Forth Worth, Texas, home to several thou­sand General Dynamics Corp. workers whose jobs could be saved by the deal. The deal would end a decade-old ban on the sale of F-16s to Taiwan, the stronghold of the Nationalist government driven from China's mainland in 1949. 
The dispute sparked by Bush's announcement is one of the most serious since China's Communist regime and the United States normalized rela­tions in 1979. 

Frvv Rvfrvshmvnts 
• 
Pool TableNideo Games 

• 
Big Screen TV 

• 
Snack Bar 

• 
No Smoking Section 

• 
Friendly Attendants 

• 
Dry Cleaning/Drop Off (Appt. Recomd .1 


Includes shampoo & conditioner. Long hair & 
NO 

APPOINTMENT specialty wraps.
NECESSARY 
Kellie, Kenneth, Lorraine, Jill, Alicia, 
higher.

Joy, Joanne, Marilyn, Suzanne 
You Can Win 

• A Free Color TV 
• Dry Cleaning SeNice 
65 Years 
• Drop Off Laundry SeNice 

luPl Total ExperienceEnter Our Drawings! ~ Euro Tan Tanning Beds 
Campus ~.a 
Shopping~ e~b r----------­
-COUPON-

Centar ~ -COUPON­
~oil'

World., Greatcut laundromat 1 I I 
1813 South Bend Ave., at Campus Shoppes Shopping Center 0
I Frank's 
D ~(1-.,~ ,~ 

(Behind Werntz Hardware) I I
I Red Hots
Open 7 -Days 271-7675 7:00AM to 11:00 PM 
_g I At Campus Shoppes 1811 South Bend Ave.
50% Off Any Drop-Off Laundry 
~~---------------4-1 Shopping Center HAIRCUT 
regular 65~ a pound OPEN7-DAYS 271-7674
..I _____ _ No Appointments
-COUPON-

Same Day Service 
~------'--_. -·· 

page !:i 1he Observer t-mlay, t;eptember 4, 199L 
ELECTION '92 



Bush rejects debate proposal 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush's re-election cam­paign on Thursday rejected a bipartisan panel's recommen­dation for three presidential debates and one vice presiden­tial debate. The format had al­ready been accepted by Demo­crat Bill Clinton. 
"We're not sure that's the best way to serve the public. We really have not come to an absolute position on what we think is the best way to do it yet," said Robert Teeter, chairman of the Bush-Quayle re-election committee. 
"We will not accept the commission's proposal as it's outlined now." 
Asked whether the Bush team was unhappy about the number of proposed debates or the format, Teeter said: "Both." 
Teeter said he wasn't ruling out debates, and assumed that they would take place, but that Bush wasn't ready to commit himself. 
Clinton, touring hurricane­damaged areas in Florida, de­clined to immediately comment, saying he wanted to wait until Friday. 
"I don't think I want to talk about it when I'm in Florida," Clinton said. 
The Commission on Presi­dential Debates, headed by former chairmen of both major parties, already had announced dates and sites for the three proposed presidential debates. 
The first was proposed for Michigan State University in East Lansing, Mich., on Sept. 
22. The second was to be Oct. 4 in California at the University of San Diego and the third, Oct. 15 in Virginia at the University of Richmond. 
The commission had recom­mended a single vice-presiden­tial debate for Sept. 29 in Louisville, Ky. 
The commission -co-chaired by former Democratic party chairman Paul Kirk and former GOP chairman Frank Fahrenkopf-sponsored the two 1988 presidential debates between then Vice President Bush and Democrat Michael Dukakis. 
Teeter, in a session with a group of reporters, said: "Our position is that, at some appro­priate point, we'll sit down with the Clinton people and talk about debates." 
George Stephanopoulos, Clinton's communications di­rector, responded to the devel­opment by saying: "We don't need a debate about debates. We need a debate about the future of the country." 
On whether the Clinton cam­paign would negotiate directly with the Bush camp on terms, Stephanopoulos said: "I don't think so. If they have a pro­posal, send it." 
"We'll be in East Lansing," on Sept. 22 for the first debate, whether Bush is there or not, the Clinton spokesman said. 
Under the commission's plan, each 90-minute debate would be moderated by a single person rather than a panel, a departure from the 1988 de­bates. 
On whether Bush definitely would not meet Clinton in Michigan on September 22, Teeter said, "I wouldn't say it's out the window. But we haven't come to that point." 

Environmental groups: Gore improves ticket 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Democratic presidential ticket of Bill Clinton and AI Gore won support Thursday from two national environmental groups, the League of Conservation Voters and the Sierra Club. 
The two non-partisan groups accused President Bush of reneging on his pledge to be the environmental president and breaking specific promises he made during his 1988 cam­paign. 
Clinton has had a mixed envi­ronmental record as governor of Arkansas. But the groups said his choice of Tennessee Sen. Gore for a running mate proved his commitment to their cause. 
"Gore has not only supported environmental legislation, he 
Fitzwater jokes about the press 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The White House went to unusual lengths Thursday to press its argument that the news media slants its campaign coverage in favor of Bill Clinton. 
At the outset of his daily briefing for the White House press corps, presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater held up for TV cameras two poster boards. 
One said "The Incredible Shrinking Story." 
The other showed, side by side, three New York Times stories on Bush-Clinton poll re­sults. The first story, published Aug. 25 and showing Clinton with a 15 percentage point lead, was 25 paragraphs long. The second, on Aug. 31 and showing a 10-point Clinton lead, was five paragraphs. 
And the third, published Thursday, showed the lead down to 5 points. It was one paragraph long. 
Asked to respond to Fitzwa­ter's display, Times spokeswoman Nancy Nielsen said the longest of the three stories cited by Fitzwater was based on a New York Times­CBS poll, while the two others were based on polls by other organizations. 
has written most of it," League greenhouse effect, pass a na­president Bruce Babbitt said of tional recycling plan, support a the Tennessee senator. He said strong Clean Air Act and be "a Gore's presence on the Demo­Teddy Roosevelt environmen­cratic ticket makes it the clear talist." choice for environmentalists. "He has broken every single 
The Sierra Club said Thurs­promise," Ruckel said. "How day it would formally endorse can we possibly trust him?" Clinton and Gore in news con­The league, in a similar vein, ferences around the country on said Bush's 1988 pledge to be Friday. It was only the second the environmental president presidential endorsement since "seems to have followed the the club was founded 100 years path of 'read my lips, no new ago; the first was in 1984, when taxes.'" the group endorsed Walter Mondale over Ronald Reagan. In a rating of the two tickets, 
Sierra Club president H. An­the league group praised Clin­thony Ruckel, in remarks pre­ton for environmental moves pared for delivery Friday in during the last few years, for Little Rock, Ark., called Bush commitments he has made to "an environmental disaster." fight pollution and promote 
He said Bush had promised to conservation if elected presi­protect wetlands, fight the dent, and for choosing Gore. 
hd I
Happy Birt ay, Matt Nie sen 
H

ave a 


smashing ~ all month ~ no coupon needed 19t h • f ~ Open at 6:00a.m. daily 
1!1.[!) 

Love, Elizabeth 


Jefferson  



InterVarsity Christian Fellowship invites one and all to Activity Night-
Walleyball­
7:00 p.m. Friday, September 4th 
Apt. 2A, Bldg. #1 Fischer Graduate Residence (on campus, east ofGrace and Flanner) 

Bible Study­
7:00 p.m. Tuesday, September 8th Siegfried Chapel 
Questions? Call Kevin at 1384 or Lisa at 4290 



~PHnton gets endorsement of prominent labor union 

.WASHINGTON JAPl ~ Bill Clinton, ·once scorned . by some unions. ~s• <trighMo~wflr}:t gov~ .ernor from alow~wage .state; d~clat'ed him$elf a protector.of American worker~ Thursday< .as .he pi.9ked .. lip t}lf
endorsement of th.eAFkCIO. ..... •n know vve h.ave l)_ot always •.·•a.gr~~d ·anct·W<ill nev¢r ~lWays ···agree on eveq1hing~···•Cliltton. t0ld.leader~. of the .l~ million· stronglaborJecteration. ~·But w~ $hare a commQJ1 comm~t· ment to the. working m~n and \Vomen ~,tnd their drlldten and 
)he•forgotten middle class;"
i "We~re going to make Bushand Quayle r~member those folks on Nov; 3..~: the: De.mo­
.• cr&.ttc· presidentiaJ.. nominee told· an AFL-ClO general board me¢ting. 
Many union leaders ha(fbeen leery .of the Arkansas governur because he comes from aright-to-work state and has a spotty record on variouS labor goals. He didn't win the 
· AFL-CIO's hacking in the primaries until Jt was Clear he had the nomination locked up, 
But labot could be a substantial help to Clinton now With contributions to the DemocraticParty as phone banks and mailings to get out the vote. · 
Clinton's reception here was matched in Pittsburgh where running-mate AI Gore told a Steelworkers convention that 

-~ -Alliiiiiiii.lliiiiiiiiii•
-
Welcome Back
-~ Students 
September -Special:
-Thick Sliced 
-Cinnamon ~ French Toast ~ $.5o off 
Bush has made excus~s 
ins~ead ofhaltingjob lo~ses. · 
t<They'J;e• pointing.·filigers with une hand and. .handing ~ut Pink slips wi~h th.e 9t_her hand/' >Gore. mtd 2,5()0
boisterous delegates~ · · 
·The SteelWorkersbal!gedta• 
bles for several·minutes after .the .Tennessee senator'~ speech. chanting, "Four mare months!" 
In )lis.•rematks,.Gor¢· also. castigated BUSh for ustunninga.n(f dangerous··mistake$" on foreign policy. He said <!no one $hould. det)y the president djd well" in the Persian Gulf War but blamed the president for earlier approving high•tech sale.s to l:raq and proyiding Saddam Hussein with loan guarantees and inteUigenc6 reports. 
Later~ Gore campaigned against Republican economic policies in Maine and attended two private fund~raisers in Kennebunkport, where Prest· dent Bush has a family home. 
In Washington. AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland promised Clinton an uironclad commitment to work for you in every state of the union," 
Thunderous applause erupted as the International Brotherhood of Teamsters ..,..;... which has backed Republican presidential candidates for 20 years ...... endorsed Clinton. 

Serving ND/SMC ;tudents for 27 years 
r--coton1afPancikelfouse-l 
I I I  Apple Pancake  I I I  
I  SAVE $1.00 off  I  
I  I  


L-------~~~!~~~!_______J r--coton1afPancikelfousc-l 
I I 
I Any Omelette I 
I I 
I SAVE $1.00 off I 
I I 
L-------~xg~!~~~!_______j 
U.S. 31(Dixieway) North in Roseland (Across from Holiday Inn) 
272-7433 Just North of Campus 
Main & Jefferson Hours Mon-Th 11 a.m.-11 p.m. Fri-Sat 11a.m. -11 p.m. Sun 4 p.m. -9 p.m 

257, 1100 "This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" Authentic New York Pizza 
Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs Dine In • Carry Out $2.00 off any pizza with Student ID 
1• 11 4j ' J t I t ' \ f i t • ' ' , ( ,.. . 






Irish Football 

A Supplement to The Observer 
GAME NOTES 
THE GAME: Notre Dame (10·3 in 1991) versus Nortwestern (3~8 in 1991). . 
KICKOFF: 2:37 p.m. COT. 
TV and RADIO: ABC (Brent Musburger and Dick Vermeil) will provide regional television coverage. The game will be offered on a pay­per-view basis in areas where h will not be broadcast on the network. Mutual Radio Network (Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna) will broadcast the game to a national radio audience. 
.TICKETS: Soldier Field, home of , the Chicago Bears, is expected to : have a sellout crowd of 66,946. 
RANKINGS: Notre Dame: AP 3rd, USA Today/CNN 3rd. Northwestern: AP unranked, USA Today/CNN: unranked. 
.THE SERIES: Notre Dame has not ·played Northwestern since 1976, when the Irish won 48-0 on the road. Notre Dame has won the last 11 meetings between the schools and 
leads the series 34-7-2. 
This year's meeting is the first of a 
four-year contract between the 
universities. They will meet again at 
Soldier Field in 1994 and play at Notre 
Dame Stadium in 1993 and 1995. 
THE LAST TIME: Notre Dame shut out Northwestern 48-0 in 1976. 
FYI: Notre Dame is 16-3 against the 
Big Ten and 5-1 in season openers 
under Lou Holtz. 
The Irish tied Great Lakes, 13-13, in 
their last Soldier Field appearance. 

SCHEDULES 





Big, Bad Bryant 
Young fulfills dream of playing in Chicago 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 

Graduation, Championships, Excellence and Improvement. 
These are the goals inscribed on the wall in the Notre Dame football auditorium. These are the words that are supposed to remind the Irish football players what they should aspire to be. These are also the goals of junior defensive tackle Bryant Young. 
"He's a guy that you picture when you talk about Notre Dame football," said Irish defensive line coach Mike Trgovac. "He's a nice young inan, and outstanding football player and he works hard in the classroom." 
A second-year starter, the Chicago Heights, Ill. native has attracted the attention of collegiate sportswriters who have slated Young for possible post­season honors. His quickness and strength have given him an edge over opposing players and earned him a starting position as a sophomore. 
Trgovac feels that Young is well suited for his position on the defense. 
"He has natural talent with a great work ethic. He's strong, quick and physical and just has a natural sense about the position," said Trgovac. "He has all the attributes that it takes to be a great defense lineman." 
Those attributes have garnered Young the preseason accolades, but the junior remains unaffected. 
"It is an honor for them to rank me as a preseason All-American candidate, but I need to block it out of my mind and just to perform to the best of what I can do. I have to work as a team and not as an individual," said Young. 
He gave Irish fans a glimpse of what he was capable of last year despite an ankle injury. Young notched 11 tackles against 

.------------------. Michigan and seven against Stanford. 
During an outstanding effort in the Purdue game, Young claimed nine tackles including two sacks as well as two fumble recoveries and a forced 
fumble. 

Injury struck midway through the season when he cracked a bone in his left ankle in the Air Force game. The fracture kept him out of two games, but also did more serious damage. 
"After the injury, I was not the same. I didn't have a lot of confidence in myself because of the ankle and I was hesitant to do some things in games," said Young. 
After a solid set of spring and fall practices, Young is back at 100 percent and eager to start the new season. His coaches also feel that he is ready. 
"I expect great things out of him this
• 

year. I'm looking for him to have a great year and I'm sure that he expects it too," said Trgovac. 
"Bryant Young is one of the best football players in the country," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. "He is among the best defensive linemen that I have been associated with." 
With the defense temporarily without captain Demetrius DuBose and shorthanded due to injuries, someone has to step forward as lead the team. Some say Young might be that person. Young wants to lead the defense by example. 
"I have to try to eliminate missed assignments and be a total player on the pass and on the run," said Young. "Before a game, I have to go over the de­fensive game plan and get it into my head that this is what I have to do." 
The season opener this weekend provides Young, a Chicagoland prep standout to play close to home. In his days at Bloom Township High School, Young played both offense and defense as a tight end and as a defensive end. His achievements as a tight end were 

···:a
\... 

substantial enough to catch the eye of the Tennessee which recruited Young for that position, but he favored the ag­gressiveness of defensive play. 
"On offense if you are too aggressive you can make mental errors. You have to be calm, but on defense you can go all out," said Young. 
Young will be going all out against Northwestern with many of his friends and family members watching. The game at Soldier Field affords Young a rare opportunity to realize a dream. 
"I have always visualized playing in Soldier Field in front of a large crowd," said Young. "I'm excited to be playing there. It's rare that you get to play where you live in front of a big hometown crowd." 
The Chicago crowd will see an aggressive football player during the game, but not when time is expired. Young acknowledges that he has con­trasting images on and off the field. 
"On the field, I play hard and give it up on every play, but off the field I'm totally opposite. I'm kind of quiet and shy," said Young . 
The Observer/John Bingham 

Bryant Young falls on a fumble during last spring's Blue-Gold Game. Young, a junior, will anchor a shaky Irish defensive line this season. 
.-------------­
page 2 Notre Dame vs. Northwestern 
-----~-----------~
~-~--~­
~----------­

Barnett looks to build another champion 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
There are a lot of obstacles facing first-year Northwestern coach Gary Barnett, but he has seen them all before. Barnett has already been a part of a program that rose from the ranks of conference also­rans to the national championship. 
When he joined the Colorado coaching staff as running backs coach in 1984, the Buffaloes finished 1­10 and in seventh place in the Big Eight. Just six years later, they defeated Notre Dame in the Orange Bowl to capture the national title. 
Barnett will now try to duplicate this feat as a head coach, but doing so will not be an easy process, and he recognizes that. 
"When you take over a program that knows nothing but losing, the first thing you have to is establish a good work ethic and instill confidence in your players," Barnett explained. 
"From there you have to go out and get the players." 
This is an area which Barnett was heralded for in his tenure at Colorado, and one which he intends to continue to excel in at Northwestern. He plans to go "all-out to recruit the Chicago area." 
This could be tough because Northwestern has to compete against perennial Big Ten powers Illinois and Michigan, as well as, Notre Dame for Chicago's best. However, Barnett feels that his program has a lot to offer, both on and off the field. 
"While recruiting, I'm telling them they are going to be the part of a new beginning, and they are going to be the ones that start to build something,"the former Colorado offensive coordinator said. "Also, at Northwestern, they are going to get the best degree in Division I football." 
It was Barnett's enthusiasm and recruiting ability that interested Bruce Corrie, Northwestern's Director of Athletics and Recreation, when he was looking for a new coach. 
"We feel he understands what it takes to move our 
Overmatched 'Cats 
advantage is surprise 
By RICH KURZ 
Associate Sports Editor 
Once upon a time, back in the Gerry Faust years when the present schedule was com­pleted, Saturday's North­western-Notre Dame matchup might have seemed like a good idea. 
Notre Dame, wasn't at the same level currently expected of it, and Northwestern felt it was a club on the way up. But a few years later, the contest looks like the biggest mismatch the Irish have played since Southern Methodist, fresh off of its NCAA death penalty, came into Notre Dame Stadium. 
Notre Dame is again challeng­ing for the top spot in college football, and the Wildcats are still perennial doormats in the Big Ten, although things might be looking up for NU. 
Northwestern is coming off a three-win season, highlighted by 17-11 victory over in-state rival Illinois. And the 'Cats have a new head coach in Gary Barnett, who comes to Evanston from the University of Colorado where he was the offensive coordinator. 
The one great advantage Barnett has going into the sea­son opener is that no one knows just what to expect from the Wildcat offense. Reports out of Northwestern indicate that new offensive coordinator Greg Meyer has installed a Miami/Washington style passing game, but with Barnett's wishbone experience in the Big Eight, Irish coaches have to prepare for many different looks. 
"As a head coach and former offensive coordinator, it's hard to stay out of the offense. We've worked in the Colorado offensive system as camp has gone on," Barnett said. 
The Wildcats quarterback, third-year starter Len Williams, completed 61 percent of his passes last season, throwing ten touchdowns and only six interceptions. As a former full­back, Williams has to be re­garded as a threat to run the ball. 
"He's a fine, shifty runner," Irish coach Lou Holtz said of Williams, "He has a quick re­lease and a strong arm. He could be very dangerous." 
It's a good thing he can run, because the inexperienced Northwestern offensive line may be in for a long day. Two linemen, Pat Norton and Matt O'Dwyer, have starting experi­ence, but both are coming ofl" of mJuries. Even more striking is that the Wildcats' projected starter at center, Robert Johnson, is an untested sophomore. The 'Cats could be in trouble in the middle. 
The leading rusher from last season, Dennis Lundy, who gained 568 yards on 142 car­ries, is featured in a one-back, two-tight end set. 
Northwestern's other skill positions are equally bare. They will start two new wide receivers, one of whom, Patrick Wright, stands only 5-4, 159 lbs. The Irish secondary is the most experienced part of the defense, and Wildcat receivers will have a tough time getting the ball if the Notre Dame pass rush can dominate the young offensive line of the Wildcats. 
The only question mark on defense for the Irish is at linebacker, where junior Pete Bereich is filling in while All­American Demetrius DuBose serves his NCAA-mandated two­game suspension for taking an illegal loan. If anything, this match-up will give Bereich a chance to get some game ex-
see MATCHUPS I page 3 

feels that recent NCAA legislation, including the reduction of scholarships per school, puts Northwestern in a better position. 
"The NCAA is moving in the direction of Northwestern and similar schools (that) have long and outstanding academic traditions," Barnett stated. "There is more parity in college football today." 
Despite Barnett's optimism, this could still be a long year for the Wildcats, who return ten starters from last season's 3-8 squad. In addition to its always-rugged Big Ten schedule, they travel to Boston College next Saturday and to Stanford in week three, following tomorrow's season opener against the Irish. 
Even if Northwestern is crushed by Notre Dame, as most expect, its coach will not lose faith. Barnett realizes tomorrow's contest at Soldier Field is just the beginning of a long rebuilding process that will take time. 
"You've got to keep things in perspective. (Notre Dame) is only one game, one brick in the foundation," Barnett explained. 
"There are so many things that lead up to the game that I see it as the culmination of a week of work. It's a barometer for the program. After it, we'll know where we are and what will still have to do." 
This will not be the first time Barnett has faced Notre Dame as a coach. While at Colorado, the Buffaloes met the Irish three times. In 1984, Barnett's first year in Boulder, the Gerry Faust-coached Irish beat Colorado 55-14. The teams faced each other again in both the 1990 and 1991 Orange Bowls. Notre Dame crushed the top-ranked Buffaloes, 21-6, in the first meeting, but Colorado prevailed in the rematch, 10-9. 
Though Northwestern will feature a Colorado-type offensive attack. Barnett is not concerned with the fact that the Bufl"aloes averaged only eight points per game in the Orange Bowls. 
"In those games, you had two great defenses on the program in a positive winning direction," Corrie said. field, and ultimately that is where the games were Getting the Wildcats going in that direction might not won," Barnett noted. be as difficult as it would have been in the past. Barnett ''I'm concerned with the future, not the past." 
When the Irish have the ball 

When the Wildcats have the ball 
Probable starters in boldface. 
SPLIT END

Wi 1 d cats' 

FLANK<R TACKlE :::.~~~~~~...... 
I·Polfloll'l'/,!"15-3. 1U, JR. JO·Ma" Hhris Gam~o 
l:\'~'~a~·~RR o·~· 5·11.180.JR.
Offense 

' !55 t.J~P!~oml<l 
H236.S0' 

tAILBAGK GUARD ~---...__... 
r~~~~·s~~o ~iJm~~QIil'iilll'"~ ....... 
FUUIIACK 
!-lee GIUIAHntf 
5-i,173,JA. 
lW'f~:foay




R ~-·'"·"-~--­

I ' • ~ , •• I ~ I t' ~ ' ' ' • ..,. !"' ~ 'I' t 



Viewpoint 
Friday, September 4, 1992 page 9 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant 
Managing Editor John Rock 

News Editor.............••.•...•. David Kinney Viewpoint Editor...•.•............ Joe Moody Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Photo Editor...•.•••... Marguerite Schropp Saint Mary's Editor...Anna Marie Tabor 
Business Manager Richard Riley 

Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Systems Manager.............. Patrick Barth OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Controller..........•............. David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Vandalism of sculptures disappoints students 
Dear Editor: 
As a member of the intimate Liberal Arts community of Saint Mary's College I expect to be challenged intellectually and emotionally by my peers and professors on campus. 
So far in my career here I have been quite satisfied and excited by the communication between students. I have found it to be a mature, respectful community. 
Recently I have had to rethink my position. The reason for these thoughts is due to the vandalism incurred upon the sculptures by Chicago artist, Marcia Kaplan, placed on our school grounds. 
I am now ashamed to admit to being part of an assembly that can only show its disapproval through vandalism. 
I urge you to find an intelli­gent form of opposition if your views are dissimilar from the populous. Attend the lecture where Marcia will discuss her point of view on September 4 at 2 p.m. in Moreau Hall. 
Marie Remig Kevin McDonough Off Campus Sept. 2, 1992 


Bush...Clinton..."Family Values" ... Bosnia... Co-Ed Housing...New Stadium at NO.. Affirmative Action ...The Bowl Alliance ...Term Limitations...The Homeless ...Faculty Governance... Euthanasia...SUFR. .. Gay/Lesbian Rights ...Cable TV in the dorms .. The Economy ...The Church ... The Free Trade Agreement. .. Lines at the Bookstore ...Lines at the Dining Hall. .. DART. ..The ObserVer ... Tipper... Hillary... Monk... Quayle? 
Any thoughts? 
Send us YOUR Viewpoint: 
Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556 
DOONESBURY 



Write to schoolchildren in Chicago 
Dear Editor: 
I have just one question to ask you: Could you spare fifteen minutes (or less) per week to improve a child's life in the in­ner city of Chicago? 
If so, please read on. If you do not have fifteen minutes a week in which to write a letter and improve the life and academic skills of some beautiful needful children! you may have your priorities out of order. 
My name is Sean Scanlon (ND Class of 1991) and I am a teacher in the Chicago Arch­diocese at Our Lady of the Westside School. We always hear quite a bit about the trauma and disarray of the in­ner city schools and thechildren in them and usually we respond by turning the channel. However, here is your chance to help and it might take you all of one hour each month. 
I would like you to write let­ters to my kids and the other children in our school. This communication with caring people so far out of their realm who are able to show some loving concern for them as im­portant children, could possibly provide the spark that so many be lacking and is extinguished so easily by the stifling inner city. 
I would ask anyone who is interested to please write a note off to me today or tomorrow (or at least by Sept. 25th). Please write to: Write To Them, c/o Sean Scanlon, 3900 W. Lexington, Chicago, II., 60624. 
Please include your name, address, major, interests, the grade level of the child you would like (K-8) and also include a short statement (a paragraph, maybe) on what interests you in this program. 
I will explain more about what would be appropriate contents of letters, who you will be matched with at what grade level, and other helpful advice for the special needs of our children. 
I, along with many children, await your response. We can take as many students as can write to us, so please do today! 
Sean B. Scanlon Class of 1991 Chicago, IL September 2, 1992 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

SEPTEMBER 4-6 

weekend calendar 
friday 
MUSIC 

Club 23, Brian, Colin, & Vince, 10:00 p.m. Club Shenanigans, Oliver Syndrome, 10:00 p.m. Twist & Shout, Edge Wise, 9:30 p.m. 


saturday 
MUSIC 

Club 23, Way Past Tense, 10:00 p.m. Club Shenanigans, Push Down and Turn, 10:00 p.m. Twist & Shout, Edge Wise, 9:30 p.m. 

EVENTS 

Notre Dame vs. Northwestern, Soldier Field, 
2:37 p.m. COT 



films 
FRIDAY 

Wayne's World, Snite Museum, 7:30 & 9:45 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST Twin Peaks, 7:00 and 9:40 p.m. Honeymoon in Vegas, 7:20 and 9:20p.m. Christopher Columbus: The Discovery, 
7:10 and 9:40p.m. A League of Their Own, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m. Mo' Money, 7:00 and 9:00p.m. Death Becomes Her, 7:30 and 9:50 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST Pet Cemetary Two, 7:30 and 9:45 Out on a Limb, 7:25 and 9:15p.m. Rapid Fire, 7:20 and 9:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY 

Wayne's World, Snite Museum, 7:30 & 9:45 p.m. 

UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 
See Friday's schedule 


UNIVERSITY PARK WEST 
See Friday's schedule 

By JEANNE BLASI 
Accent Writer 

C 
hicago will be a city under siege this weekend, as Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students travel to Soldier Field in droves for the Irish's season-opener. Wzth the following guide to the most popular food and entertainment establishments in and around the city, how could anyone pass up a roadtrip to the Notre Dame v. Northwestern game? 


LI\ICOLN PARK-"Yuppie-ville" 
Home of the Lincoln Park Zoo and several thousand ND alumni, this area is definitely a place to visit. At night, Lincoln Park transforms into a college town with hundreds of popular night spots. 
Food: 

•Gold Coast Dogs 2100 N. CLARK -418 N. State-325 S. Franklin A great cheap place to eat featuring Chicago-style 
hot dogs. This fast food chain also has excellent char­broiled cheddar dogs, chili dogs, cheddar fries, and burgers. Open late for late night munchies or pre­game warmup. 
•Ranalli's 
1925 N. Lincoln 

This pizza haven has a great outdoor patio to eat on. Great thin crust pizza and more than 100 imported beers. Decorated as a sports bar, it claims to be the favorite pizza of several celebrities. However, watch the food and beverage tab, it accumulates quickly. ' 
•Bacino's 
2204 N. Lincoln Avenue 

This pizzeria serves great stuffed Chicago-style 
pizza that puts Edwardo's to shame. Conveniently located on one of Lincoln Park's most notorious bar strips, it is a great place to begin your evening. 
•Potbelly's 2264 N. Lincoln Located across the street from several of Lincoln 
Park's finest bars, these sandwiches rival Macri's in taste. If you're sick of pizza, or just want a sandwich to bring to the game, Potbelly's is the place to get one. 
•Ann Sather's 929 W. Belmont Cheap Breakfast and the best cinamon rolls on 
earth. Located between Wrigleyville and Lincoln Park. 
Bars: 

•Bamboo Bernie's 2247 N. Lincoln One almost expects .Jimmy Buffett to appear at this 
tropical haven. Sporting an indoor sand volleyball court and exotic drinks, this bar is definitely a hit. It is famous for "The Shark bite": a blue liquid hawaiian drink served in a fishbowl with a plastic souveneir shark. Extremely crowed on weekends, it's better if you go later in the evening. Open until 4 a.m. No cover. 
•The Big Nasty 2242 N. Lincoln A dive, but sports a second floor dance floor and 
upside-down Margarita chair. Expect to get doused in silly string and do plenty of jello shots on the first floor. (This bar is not known for stringent carding, though a '21' ID is required.) 
•John Barleycorn 658 W. Belden (the corner of Lincoln and Belden) Decorated like a classy English pub, this bar has a 
choice selection of imported beers, ales and cider (alcoholic apple juice) on tap. Conducive to intelligent conversation and with a great darts room, it serves good appetizers and food-try the cottage fries and a Snakebite. 
•Deja Vu 2624 N. Lincoln The host of Saturday night turtle races. A great bar 
to go to after hours-in fact, many gather here after their favorite taverns close. George Wendt appeared here one night last month. Open unit! 5 a.m. 
•Jerry's 
2274 N. Lincoln 

Jerry's is an indoor-outdoor bar, weather permitting. It often has drink specials, and usually has no cover charge. Located across the street from Bamboo Bernie's, Jerry's is a great place to go to while waiting for the crowd's to thin out. 
•Kelsey's 2275 N. Lincoln This bar is simlar to Jerry's in atmosphere, crowds, 
and beverages. Located across the street from 
Jerry's. •Gamekeeper's Tavern and Grill 1971 N. Lincoln 
A newfound hot-spot, it always has a line outside of the door. There is usually a cover charge as a result of the live music. If you do not like packed bars, don't go here. 
•Red Lion Pub 2446 N. Lincoln 
A n o t h e r English-style pub featuring imported beer, ciders, 
and ales on tap. has good appetizers and dessert specials great place to go and converse with friends. 
•Otis' 

2150 N. Halsted 
A fun bar, located on another of Lincoln popular night streets. One feels right at home company of hundreds of alumni Domers. featuring live entertainment, it is definitely a place to hang out. 
•Glascot's Groggery 2158 N. Halsted Similar to Otis' and located down the s 
Glascott's has its own charm. 
•The Store 2002 N. Halsted A large bar composed of two rooms. It's most 
go to with a group of people and is open until 4 •McGee's 950 W. Webster Another popular Domer and Chicago ND al 
You can expect to run into someone you know popular spot. 
•Irish 
Eyes 2519 N. Lincoln Avenue 

•Irish 
Times 2750 N. Halsted Uust South of Diversey) 


EAST SIDE 

For these purposes, the East side consists of Pier and the Magnificent Mile. One of Chicago's. popular areas, it is home to hundreds of fa stores and restaurants. The best pizza in Chic found in this area. Don't miss the new six floor store on Michigan Avenue. 
Food: 

•Pizzeria 
Uno's 29 East Ohio AND 

•Pizzeria 
Due's 619 N. Wabash 


Fabulous Chicago-style pizza. Though it is a ch other cities, Chicago's restaurant has no compa These pizzerias serve the finest deep dish pizza country. Expect to go early or wait a long Outdoor waiting beer area. 
•Gino's East 160 E. Superior Though you can write on the walls all you wan 
only a close second to Uno's and Due's, though would argue it to be number one. Expect to long time outside with no refreshments. 
•Ed Debevic's 640 N. Wells A 1950s style diner, featuring mea 
hamburgers, hot dogs and apple pie. The food is but the wait is usually long. Waiters and wait are highly entertaining with their rude antics staff caps the night off with a staff dance o counters. 
•Rock and Roll McDonalds 65 W. Ontario Unlike any McDonald's you've ever seen, the 1 
decor and indoor cash station is a bonus. The ~ the same, but the atmosphere is great and it's and busy 24 hours a day. And it is, as always, c Open 24 hours. 
•Hard Rock Cafe 63 W. Ontario If you've seen one, you've seen them all. 
---~----·---­

Photo courtesy of Jeffrey Blough 
ndreds of restaurants and clubs are ready to entertain the visitors coming in for Saturday's 
restaurant is overprice and
also not worth the wait. If you're, is a going to wait that long, go to 
Ed's, located down the street. •Scoozi 410 W. Huron
uk's A fabulous, but fairly
1 the expensive Italian restaurant.
.ften But the food is as close to 
~reat 
Italy as you can get. Entrees run from $9 to $11 for a hearty serving. Many celebs frequent this place when in 
eet, 
town. You'll recognize Scoozi 
-
by the big red tomato outside. Unfortunately they take no reservations. Expect a 45 minute wait after 7pm. 
~to 
•Tucci Benucci 900 N. Michigan A cheaper, less crowded
i bar. 
version of Scoozi, located on t this 
the upper floor of the Bloomingdales mall. The food is excellent and the atmosphere is quieter. 
Bars: 
•Dick's Last Resort 435 E. Illinois (North Pier) 
Ironically located underneath the infamous Baja Beach Club, this bar is definately on top. Dick's decor 
orth 

is reminiscent of a German pub with its long wooden 
2:37 P.M. CDT

tables and random as­
_, sortment of mismatched 
Soldier Field, Chicago chairs. This bar features live jazz and blues, paper hats, . Observer graphic 
BRENDAN REGAN
and great drink specials (you can keep the souvenir glasses). 
•Baja Beach Club equipped with paddy wagons are always on the strange upside-down margarita area located at the 401 E. Illinois (North Pier) street-and they mean business. Hot heads should bar. Newly expanded, Kronie's is a great place to 
If you like a crowded bar and dance floor, and lots choose another area to party in. 'hang out,' but be sure to sample the other nearby of cheese and sleaze, this club is the place for you. bars in this area to get a true taste of Chicago night 
in in 
Featuring a kaliedoscope, in which drunken fools are Bars: life. son. haphazardly spun up, down, and all around into •Alumni Club 
1 the 
oblivion, and string bikini clad women soliciting beer 15 W. Division Comedy:me. from their bathtubs, the Baja is a well-known name. The first floor is a sports bar and grill while the •Second City Mainstage or Ect. (be sure to specify) 
•Excalibur second floor, with a large dance floor, requires a cover 616 N. Wells (312) 337-3992 
632 N. Dearborn charge. This bar even has an official Notre Dame This infamous comedy club was the starting place Excalibur is another name most have heard. This 1972 Championship banner. The appetizers and food for many famous actors such as John Belushi, George 
it is 
bar draws a large assortment of tourists, complete are good, but not cheap. Wendt, and the list goes on. Featuring two shows, one 
orne 
with cameras, from ages 18-55. One redeeming •Mother's at 7:30p.m., and one at 11p.m, however, reservations 
Lit a 
quality of this bar is its large game room located in 26 W. Division are necessary, so call ahead and reserve. Tickets run the basement, and the pool hall on the first floor, This bar is absolutely nothing like the bar depicted from $10 to $12. which usually features a live band. After paying a $5 in the movie "About Last Night." It is located in the to $10 cover charge, one may proceed to the second basement and is more of a club than anything else, 
oaf, 
floor, which boasts a three-story dance palace. with its huge dance floor and loud dance music. 
ood, Women, be sure to come with an escort to this dance •Shennaniganssses 
The room. Unfortunately, the music is overpowering and is 22 W. Division WRIGLEYVILLE all played at the same tempo. This bar does is not an A typical Rush Street bar, complete with tourists. It
the 
accurate sampling of Chicago nightlife. would be fun to hang out in with a large group of This area is the home of Wrigley Field, which it people. No cover charge. derived its name from. 
•The Hangge Uppe •Slugger's World Class and Co. 14 W. Elm 3540 N. Clark
50's 
Located around the block from the Alumni Club, this A huge sports bar with lots of TVs. Cubs' fans
1d is 
RUSH AND DIVISION bar has two floors and a dance floor. But, be prepared frequent this bar. Located a block from Wrigley field. 
1pen 
to slow dance often, this dee-jay prefers slow to fast 
eap. 
This is one of Chicago's most popular areas. music. •Cubby Bear Unfortunately it is also more expensive, touristy, and •Kronie's 1059 W. Addison dangerous. Keep your wallet in check because one of Located two blocks south of division, Kronie's is a •Yak-zies Bar imd Grill Chicago's most dangerous housing projects is only a classier version of Bridget's or the Commons. Any 3710 N. Clark
rhis 
few blocks away. But, never fear, because police, Domer would feel at home at this bar. One asset is the Great Wings 
r---~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
1' 

page 12 The Observer Friday, September 4, 1992 





Looking for the Messiah in an election year 
President Bush, says New York 
stormtroopers who picket having babies. Because mothers magazine, spent the summer abortion clinics, using their in slum neighborhoods are hunting down metaphors that Father Robert Griffin bodies as barriers. Maybe I afraid to bring children into a can describe his quest for re­should, since I suspect that world that will destroy them at election. Letters to a Lonely God many of them provoke a young age. Because a Reaching back into history for confrontations as a way of fatherless child has three archetypes of the beleaguered battling the demons robbing strikes against him. hero, he delivered this gem to him a wimp. innocence, God's passion for them of peace. No candidate could claim he an audience of lawyers in The nation gave Bush his justice, and the cries of the God help the candidate that has the credentials of a miracle-­Colorado Springs: "Remember chance to kick ass during the poor. Candidates in need of says abortion should be a worker, able to make the streets the old story of the fierce Persian Gulf War, and now we balms from Gilead that can help woman's choice, and God help safe for the widow and her gladiator? He'd killed every lion need a kinder, gentler president heal the wounds of their the candidate who hesitates to orphans, and for the hard-luck that they could throw up to turn on some of those countrymen might be wise to say abortion isn't murder. kid, born to lose. But at this against him...So one day, the thousand points of light he listen more to the people of the Compassion could rip the soul point of time, the abortion mills centurions went to Carthage, promised us. Holocaust than to Jerry Falwell out of a candidate forced to will continue to be a part of the and found the meanest lion in and Pat Robertson. decide between what seems to American way until the Messiah 
the world. To tell the truth, I wish we The Christian churches are him a rock and a hard place, comes to put them out of They'd buried the gladiator in could find the Messiah, and quick to take advantage of an when in his conscience, he's not business. Doesn't every young the arena there in Rome ... so elect him president; or maybe election, lining up candidates at home or at peace with either. hopeful entering politics have just his head was sticking we could elect a righteous Jew, that they can use as "gophers," I don't support "Catholics For ambitions of becoming the 
out...The lion was released, credible as a man of sorrows, expected to cater to a a Free Choice", but the ad they Messiah? charged him, making a deadly acquainted with grief. denomination's priorities. The run in the newspapers almost pass at the gladiator's head. Do I mean this literally, or am tail seems to be wagging the persuades me. NOBODY WANTS Bush, identifying himself with 
And as he did, the gladiator I using a metaphor? For what I dog in every direction when TO HAVE AN ABORTION, they the ferocious gladiator, didn't reached up and took a very have in mind, I doubt that a religion turnsa human tragedy claim, with each word lined up tell us the rest of the story. ferocious bite in a very sensitive Gentile Christian would fit the like abortions into a litmus test singly, to run down the page. According to myth, the lion 
place in the lion's anatomy. bill. Dan Quayle is a Gentile separating the sheep from the Between each line is a line of you've been kind to will return And the lion howled in pain and Christian presently barn­goats. text that says: "Picture a world the favor, if given the chance; ran for the exit ... And the lead storming the bible belt, where For nearly forty years, I've where mothers have easy and so, when the wounded lion centurion ran out, attacked the the born-agains stay drunk on been a priest -traditional, access to childcare they can eventually caught up with the gladiator, screaming, "Fight cheap grace. (I grew up conservative and orthodox afford. Where children can gladiator, he figured that fair, damn it! Fight fair.!'' attending the same kinds of across the board -though when count on a good education no turnabout is fair play. Biting the 
Allegedly, Swinburne's bride church that Dan Quayle, so he it comes to optional things, I'm matter what school district they gladiator in sensitive place of told her spouse on their says, attended every Sunday.) too old to lie to myself. live in. Where people have his anatomy, the lion watched wedding night, "You've got to There's much more to the Operation Rescue, it seems to healthcare whether or not they the fierceness draining out of do more than bite, Algie dear" Gospel than the battle cry, me, does so much more harm have a job. Where safe birth him until he was as meek as Biting, in her mind, does not "Jesus saves," heard at revivals. than it does good. It is a control is available to everyone Gus, the theater cat down at the consummate a marriage; Churches that apply all their betrayal of Pro-life. Why should who needs it. In this world, Wimpole. Seeing him grow 
neither does it, in my mind, zeal to saving souls from the any Catholic couple feel that it abortion is not illegal. It's timid like the cat whom the create the image of the everlasting bonfire and the is the love of Christ which unheard of. Isn't that the best theater mice mocked, the President, the soon-to-be lame never-dying worm, tend to inspires them to shove a choice of all?" centurions started calling him 
duck, as "the Come Back Kid." suffer from tunnel vision; in crucifix into the face of a Wimpole, or sometimes the Bush keeps comparing himself doing so, they short-change the woman on her way to an A candidate should be able to Wimp. Hearing them, the to Harry Truman who won the glory of God. The Jews have a abortion, to stop her short as campaign on his promise to gladiator would beg them to 
-
1948 election, though he was faith as old as Genesis that has though she were a vampire? work for the world we are play fair with an old gladiator behind in the polls, by "giving survived every trial it has faced. Yet I don't care in the least for promised in the American who had a battle scar, and 
'em hell" on his whistle-stop The rabbinical tradition is rich abortions, and I pity the poor Dream. Why are abortions could prove it. 
tours. Unlike Bush, Harry was and wise with insights from a woman who chooses needed? According to the 1 wonder if Mr. President, 
feisty, and those who religion that has a mission to be destruction for her unborn advocates of Pro-choice, they using metaphors, understands 
badmouthed him never called sensitive to sorrowing child. But I don't pity the are needed because babies are how far they can be pushed? 
,_ 
orbuyaMacintoshthat's alreadyloaded. 
Get agreat value on your choice of these Apple® Macintosh® computers But hurry, because student aid like this is only available through Oct. 15, 
which include over '400 worth ofpreloaded software: The American 1992 -and only from your authorized Apple campus reseller. Heritage Dictionary with Roget's Thesaurus, the Random House Encyclopedia, Correct Grammar, ResumeWriter and Calendar Creator. The Macintosh StudentAid Package.ti® 
Notre Dame Comouter Store 
Room 112 Math/Computer Buflding • 239-7477 
© I992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo,_ and Macintosh are registered trademarks ofAp~le Computer, Inc Classic is aregistered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc PowerBook is atrademark ofApple Computer, Inc. The Random House Encyclopedia is atrademark of 
Random House, Inc. Amencan Hentage Electromc DICtionary, Electromc Thesaurus, and CnrrecText developed by Houghton Miffiin Company, publisher ofThe American Heritage Dictionary and Roget's IL The New Thesaurus. CorrecText underlying technology developed by U!nguage 
Systems, Inc. Calendar Creator IS atrademark of Power Up Software Corporation. ResumeWnter IS atrademark of Bootware Software Company, Inc. All product names are the trademark of their respective tlolders. Offer good on the Macintosh PowerBook 145 4140 configuration only. 


----~-----­
Notre Dame vs. Northwestern page 3 
Mirer remains offensive leader despite changes 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
A lot has changed for the Notre Dame offense since the Sugar Bowl. 
Lou Holtz isn't in direct control of the offense this year. His son Skip is the unit's new coordinator. 
Gone are stars like Mirko Jurkovic, Tony Smith, Derek Brown and Gene McGuire. Several young players will try to fill their enormous shoes this season. 
In the Irish backfield, Jerome Bettis is back in all of his brutal glory, but any tailback equal to Tony Brooks and Rodney Culver has yet to prove his worth. 
But throughout changes and questions, quarterback Rick Mirer has remained a steadying influence in the Irish offense. 
After leading Notre Dame to a 10-3 record in 1991. Mirer passed up the NFL's megadollars in order to take another shot at the national champi­onship which has eluded him in his first two years as the Irish starting signal­caller. 
Upon returning to Notre Dame, Mirer became the focal point of all talk about the 1992 Irish squad. But Mirer has found that the pressure and re~ sponsibility of being a senior, a captain and a quarterback at Notre Dame have not slowed him down. 
"As a quarterback, I hope that I was already a leader." he said. "My job on the field doesn't change very much this season. except that I have to learn to call the coin toss." 
Mirer was able to produce in every respect last season, throwing for 2,117 yards and 18 touchdowns, while dealing effectively with season-long speculation about his future with Notre Dame. 
Over the winter, former Irish quarterback Tom Clements was brought in as a coach for Mirer and his proteges, Kevin McDougal and Paul Failla. 
Clements, who led Notre Dame to a national title in 1973, is the sixth­leading passer in Irish history, only eight completions ahead of the quarterback he coaches. 
"It's good having a guy that's been in our (quarterbacks') position," said Mirer of Clements, who twice led Notre Dame to wins over Alabama on New Year's Day. "He's proved himself as a player." 
Clements was also a success in the professional football arenas of the Canadian Football League, where he led Ottawa and Winnipeg to Grey Cup titles in 1976 and 1984, respectively. 
But despite speculation that Clements was brought in as a professional mentor for Mirer, the young gun maintains that the old pro is simply his coach. 
"Right now, he (Clements) is just trying to help me with things at this level," Mirer said. "He has been in the position where he could call his own plays and run his own game, but I'm still a part of this system. " 
Under Lou Holtz, the Notre Dame system includes a tough running game bolstered by efficient and errorless passing. With questions abound about the Irish tailback position, some fans hope to see Mirer air it out this season. 
"I don't know if we're going to throw the ball any more," said Mirer. "But last year, we were scoring 30 or 40 points a game without throwing that much. Our job is to score points. It doesn't matter how." 

work, we're also pleased with Mark Zataveski." 
Left tackle Lindsay Knapp broke his big toe at practice Tuesday, but his status is un­known for Saturday. Another injured player will return for the game, however. Second­string tight end Oscar McBride, who broke his jaw in last Friday's scrimmage, has been cleared to play. 
The strong point of the Northwestern defense is its secondary, which boasts two returning starters at the corners. Anthony Purkett is only five-foot-eight, 170 pounds, but is a tough coverman, while Willie Lindsay was a second­team all-Big 10 selection last season. His seven interceptions put him among the nation's leaders in 1991, when he also registered three touchdown­saving tackles. 
Both of the safeties are new starters, but Greg Gill, at free safety, had plenty of playing time last year, so the Irish re­ceivers and Mirer will get an early challenge. 
Special teams play will be a key point for the Irish this sea­son, and it will be worth watching on Saturday. Kicker/punter Craig Hentrich is recovering from off-season re­constructive knee surgery and while he has made excellent progress in practice, he has yet to kick in a game. 
Clint Johnson cemented his position as kick-returner with a run for a TD versus Hawaii last season, and he will get a chance to perform for a full season at that position. Jeff Burris has been given the punt returning responsibilities, but do not be surprised to see Mike Miller field a few. Miller was expected 
. 
to challenge for the position last year before he left school. Miller returned for the spring semester and has played well in practice, giving him the chance to contribute to the team. 
All in all, while Barnett has tried to instill a positive ap­proach in his Wildcats, perhaps the most they can hope for is to shed the "Mildcat" moniker opposing fans have stuck them with for the past few seasons. 
The Irish have superior talent at every position on the field, and are expected to cruise to an easy victory Saturday, in front of what amounts to nearly a home-field advantage at Soldier Field, where the Irish are 7-0-2 overall. 
Maybe somewhere down the line the Wildcats will be able to compete with the Notre Dame, but that day hasn't arrived just yet. 

Matchups 
continued from page 2 
perience before the Michigan game. 
The other side of the ball is where Northwestern will have its most headaches. Two of the three starters on the Wildcat defensive line return, but their linebacking corps is suspect. Six-foot-three, 240 pound out­sider backer Jason Cunningham has the bulk to compete with the Irish, but the other three linebackers weigh 228, 218, and 215 pounds, significantly less than Notre Dame fullback Jerome Bettis, who weighs in at 247 pounds. If the Irish offensive line can punch holes through the NU line, Bettis and the Irish will run wild. 
Northwestern opponents ran 
KEEP YOUR EYES ON... 
for an average of 169 yards per game last season, while the Irish averaged 269 ypg, so de­spite promises to pass the ball more this season, Notre Dame quarterback Rick Mirer doesn't really need to do anything other than handoff for his team to win, although some injuries to the offensive line will concern the Irish. 
Starting guard Todd Norman injured his knee in practice Monday, and will be out for at least four weeks. In the mean­time, the starting job will most likely go to back-up center Lance Johnson, a senior, or possibly sophomore Mark Zataveski. 
"Johnson looks good at right guard, but he just hasn't been there long," said Holtz. "Johnson has never had the opportunity to start. I'd like to give him it, but if it doesn't 


LEN WILLIAMS 
The senior quarterback has started every game of the two previous seasons. Williams completed nearly 62 percent of his passes last season including ten for touchdowns. 

JASON CUNNINGHAM 
Senior outside linebacker Cunningham is the Wildcats top returning sack man. Last sea­son, he notched six quarterback sacks for a total of 7 5 yards as well as nine tackles for losses of 84 yards. 

LEE GISSENDANER 
Junior split end Gissendaner finished second on the team in receptions last year catching 19 passes for 234 yards and two touchdowns. This season he is the top returning receiver for the Wildcats. 

FRANK BOUDREAUX 
Senior defensive tackle started all 11 games for the Wildcats last season and should provide strength and experience to the defensive line. Boudreaux led the defensive line with 39 tackles including 22 solo stops. 
DENNIS LUNDRY 
Sophomore running back returns after a standout fresh­men campaign. Lundry led the Wildcat rushing crew with 586 yards on 142"carries. He is considered the top Northwestern returnee in the backfield. 
page 4 Notre Dame vs. Northwestern 





Soldier Field: An ancient battleground 
Irish have long history in Bears' home stadium 
By MIKE SCRUDATO whitewashing, in 1976 at Dyche Sports Editor Stadium, the home field of the Wildcats. 
One would think that opening "I don't know too much about the season at Soldier Field in Soldier Field," Holtz said. "We'll front of a sellout crowd made see it on Friday for the first up mostly Notre Dame fans, time. alumni and students would ''I'm not sure if we'll even please Irish coach Lou Holtz. park the bus. We may just look 
However, Holtz is bothered by at it while we're stuck in traffic. the site of tomorrow's season That's one of the advantages of opener. He would rather be playing in a big city." playing at Notre Dame Stadium. Though Holtz does not know Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
too much about the home of the The 1929 Fighting Irish won the national championship with an undefeated record, including three wins at Chicago Bears, some of his most Soldier Field while Notre Dame Stadium was under construction. 
"I don't know too 
famous predicessors were very familiar with it. 
much about 
Four of Knute· Rockne's six national championship teams

Soldier Field. 
won games in Soldier Field, one of which, the 1929 squad,
We'II see it on 
which was forced to play all of its games outside of South Bend
Friday for the first 
because of the construction of Notre Dame Stadium. 
time." -Lou Holtz 
This team was 3-0 at Soldier Field, including a dramatic 13­
"Whenever you're playing 12 victory over USC in front of a away from home, it is not an crowd of 112,912. advantage," the seventh-year One member of this team was coach commented. "I don't like Frank Leahy, who would to open on the road, but that's a become Notre Dame would part of coaching." become Notre Dame's head 
Twice before in the Holtz era coach in 1941 and lead the Irish the Irish have opened the sea­to five national titles over the son on the road. In 1987, they next 13 seasons. topped Michigan, 26-7, in Ann In his time at the helm of Arbor, and two years later at Notre Dame, Leahy compiled an the Kickoff Classic in Giants incredible 87-11-9 record. Stadium, Notre Dame crushed Northwestern has also played Virginia, 36-13. a number of games at Soldier 
Notre Dame is 5-1 in season Field over the years, but its openers under Holtz, the lone coach Gary Barnett shares defeat came at the hands of Holtz's uneasy feelings about 
NCAA FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
third-ranked Michigan, 24-23, the neutral site, and he is more 
Friday, Sept. 4 Southwest Missouri St. at McNeese St., Night SOUTHWEST
in 1986, Holtz's first season at concerned with the opponent 
EAST Auburn at Mississippi, Night Citadel at Arkansas Notre Dame. than the site. West Chester at Villanova, Night Appalachian State at North Carolina State, Night Louisiana Tech at Baylor, Night Mississippi College at NW Louisiana, Night Abilene Christian at North Texas, Night 
This season's opener will be 

NE Louisiana at Nicholls State, Night Indiana State at Oklahoma State, Night the first time the Irish have "This is going to be my first Saturday, Sept. 5 West Georgia at Samford, Night Tulane at Southern Methodist, Night EAST Georgia at South Carolina, Night Arkansas-Monticello at Stephen F. Austin
played at Soldier Field since a game as head coach of 
Rutgers at Boston College Memphis State at Southern Mississippi Mississippi State at Texas, Night 13-13 tie with Great Lakes in Northwestern," the former Bloomsburg at Bucknell Delta State at Tennessee-Martin, Night Prairie View at Texas Southern, Night New Haven at Connecticut SW Louisiana at Tennessee, Night Southwest Texas State at Texas A&l, Night 
1942 and their first appearance Colorado assistant said. "We 
New Hampshire at Maine Middle Tennessee at Tennessee State, Night Brigham Young at Texas-EI Paso, Night in the Chicagoland area since can't worry where we are, we Kent at Pittsburgh Maryland at Virginia Houston at Tulsa, Night Boston U. at Temple James Madison at Virginia Tech. Night
their last meeting with just have to go out and play the 
Miami, Ohio at West Virginia Mars Hill at Western Carolina, Night FAR WEST 
Northwestern, a 48-0 Irish game." Eastern Kentucky at Western Kentucky, Night Rice at Air Force SOUTH North Carolina at Wake Forest Utah State at Arizona, Night Vanderbilt at Alabama Washington at Arizona State, Night 
, NOTRE DAME vs. NORTHWESTERN 
Grambling State at Alcorn State MIDWEST Tennessee-Chattanooga at Boise State, Night Eastern Illinois at Austin Peay, Night Western Michigan at Bowling Green CS Northridge at Cal State-Fullerton, Night Savannah State at Bethune-Cookman, Night Penn State at Cincinnati, Night San Jose State at Calrtornia 
Production: Rolando de Aguiar 
Gardner-Webb at Central Florida, Night Akron at Eastern Michigan, Night Colorado State at Colorado Ball State at Clemson Northern Illinois at Illinois St. Cloud State at idaho, Night Cheyney at Delaware State SW Minnesota at Illinois State Night Mesa, Colo. at Idaho State, Night VMI at East Tennessee State, Night Miami at Iowa, Night Southern Utah at Northern Arizona, Night 
Photos: Jake Peters 
Syracuse at East Carolina, Night Ohio U. at Iowa State Texas Christian at New Mexico, Night Duke at Florida State, Night Utah at Nebraska Weber State at New Mexico State, Night Liberty at Furman, Night Notre Dame at Northwestern Hawaii at Oregon Florida A&M at Georgia Southern Louisville at Ohio State Kansas at Oregon State Design: Rolando de Aguiar 
Mike Scrudato 
Alcorn State at Grambling State Troy State at Southern Illinois Fresno State at Pacific U., Night Tuskegee at Jackson State, Night Arkansas State at Toledo, Night Montana State at Sacramento State, Night Central Michigan at Kentucky, Night Missouri Western at Western Illinois, Night Southern Cal at San Diego State, Night Texas A&M at LSU Clarion at Youngstown State, Night Montana at Washington State Jenny Marten 
Morehead State at Marshall, Night Nevada at Wyoming 


·., PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS (PLEASE, NO WAGERING) 
Each week during football 

season, The Observer sports  ;.  . .  .;·  
staff, AI Lesar of the South Bend Tribune and a guest prognosticator predict the outcomes of the week's major  ,.:.~ -~~:· '·\.~~''¥1111'p· .. ...,· :.; ( ,$; \~  
college football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. Home teams are in CAPS.  Mike Scrudato Sports Editor 0-0-0  AI Lesar South Bend Tribune 0-0-0  Joe Ross Notre Dame center 0-0-0  Rich Kurz Associate Sports Editor 0-0-0  Rolando de Aguiar Associate Sports Editor 0-0-0  Jenny Marten Associate Sports Editor 0-0-0  Jim Vogl Assistant Sports Editor 0-0-0  
BOSTON COLL. 4 over Rutgers OHIO ST. 16 over Louisville  Scarlet Knights Cardinals  Eagles Buckeyes  Scarlet Knights Buckeyes  Scarlet Knights Cardinals  Eagles Buckeyes  Eagles Buckeyes  Eagles Buckeyes  
NEBRASKA 27 over Utah  Huskers  Huskers  Huskers  Huskers  Utes  Huskers  Utes  
Tex. A&M 9.5 over LSU So. Cal. 5.5 over SAN DIEGO ST.  Aggies Aztecs  Tigers Aztecs  Aggies Aztecs  Aggies Aztecs  Aggies Trojans  Aggies Trojans  Tigers Trojans  
FLORIDA STATE 30 over Duke  Seminoles  Blue Devils  Seminoles  Seminoles  Seminoles  Seminoles  Seminoles  
Georgia 8 over S. CAROLINA Syracuse 9 over E. CAROLINA VIRGINIA 14.5 over Maryland  Bulldogs Orangemen Cavaliers  Gamecocks Orangemen Cavaliers  Bulldogs Orangemen Terps  Gamecocks Orangemen Cavaliers  Bulldogs Pirates Cavaliers  Gamecocks Orangemen Cavaliers  Gamecocks Orangemen Terps  
Penn St. 28 over CINCINNATI Miami 14.5 over IOWA  Nittany Lions Hurricanes  Nittany Lions Hawke yes  Nittany Lions Hurricanes  Nittany Lions Hurricanes  Nittany Lions Hurricanes  Nittany Lions Hurricanes  Nittany Lions Hurricanes  
Brigham Young 10.5 over UTEP Washington 16 over ARIZ. ST.  Cougars Huskies  Cougars Sun Devils  Cougars Huskies  Cougars Huskies  Cougars Huskies  Cougars Huskies  Miners Huskies  
Notre Dame 34 over N'WSTRN  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  Wildcats  Irish  Irish  



Friday, September 4, 1992 The Observer page 13 
NCAA football season to kick off despite setbacks and controversies 
Injuries, indictments and Hurricane Andrew have taken their toll on Miami, the NCAA has taken Notre Dame's best defensive player, and burglary charges against quarterback Garrick McGee have taken away Arizona State's only hope against Washington. 
When the nation's top three college football teams open their seasons Saturday, it won't exactly be business as usual. 
Top-ranked Miami, which moved its practices to Vero Beach following Hurricane Andrew, will be missing its best runner and receiver when it visits No. 23 Iowa. Fullback Stephen McGuire still hasn't fully recovered from knee surgery and receiver Lamar Thomas, recently indicted in a financial aid scandal. is sidelined until his court case is resolved. 
Injuries have also riddled Miami's offensive line, which w~ll have only one returning starter. But the Hurricanes are still a two-touchdown favorite over the Hawkeyes, who were beaten 24-14 by North Carolina State in the Kickoff Classic. 
"They call this place 'Quarterback U.' and 'Defensive Line U.' You can also call it 'Adversity U.,'" defensive end Rusty Medearis said. 
Arizona State is down to fourth-string quarterback Troy Rauer against No.2 Washington because of McGee's suspension. He was suspended Tuesday after being charged with burglary, and it was decided Thursday that the suspension would stand at least through the weekend. 
Even with McGee, the Sun Devils would have a tough time against Washington, which went 12-0 last season and shared the national championship with Miami. 
The Huskies have so much talent that their backup quarterback, Mark Brunell, was the 1991 Rose Bowl MVP. 
In other Top 25 games Saturday, it's Duke at No. 4 Florida S~ate; No. 7 Texas A&M at LSU; No. 8 Penn State at Cincinnati; Vanderbilt at No. 9 Alabama; No. 10 Syracuse at East Carolina; Utah at No. 11 Nebraska; Colorado State at No. 12 Colorado; Ball State at No. 
13 Clemson; No. 14 Georgia at South Carolina; Louisville at No. 17 Ohio State; Appalachian State at No. 18 N.C. State; San Jose State at No. 19 California; No. 21 Mississippi St. at Texas; Southwestern Louisiana at No. 22 Tennessee; and Maryland at No. 25 Virginia. 
On Thursday night, No. 15 Oklahoma played at Texas Tech. 
Florida State starts the season with a new quarterback and a new conference. 
The Seminoles, a former independent, are favored to win the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The



Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 

For more information and assistance regarding the investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the Better Business Bureau of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 or 800-439-5313. 
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!! 
BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday 
Pandora's Books 808 Howard 
3 blks. from campus 233-2342 
09/07 
MATH TUTOR-All levels 
271-1532-Joe 
•••••••Appalachian Seminar•••••••• 
Take part in an extraordinary 
opportunity to learn about yourself 
in the Appalachian region of Kentucky and West Virginia over your fall break. Applications now available at the 
esc. 
Important information meeting on 
September 8. 

ILOST &FOUND I 
PLEASE HELP ME!!! I lost my 
great-grandmother's long silver 
necklace with a Virgin Mary charm. 
Great sentimental value. Reward. 
#4419. 
***LOST***LOST***LOST*** 
A SET OF KEYS WITH A SWISS 
ARMY KNIFE ATTACHED. YOU 
CAN KEEP THE KNIFE IF YOU 
REALLY WANT IT, BUT I NEED MY 
KEYS PLEASE! 
CALL JOE AT x3426 

WANTED 

WANTED: Swiming teacher for 
ultra-frightened non-swimer. Call 
289-5358, if interested. 
NEEDED BYU and Michigan GA's. 
Please call 284-4308. 
SATURN OF MICHIANA HAS A PART-TIME POSITION FOR A GREETER, TWO OR THREE DAYS A WEEK, FROM 5:00-8:00 PM AND ALL DAY ON SATURDAY. APPLY IN PERSON, 4028 N. GRAPE ROAD, MISHAWAKA, IN (258­6333). SEE RICH OR JERRY. 
HELP ME! HELP ME! HELP ME! 
Desperately need 2 MICHIGAN Student tix for my wealthy alumni sisters. Will pay BIG BUCKS! Call John X3349 
HELP ME! HELP ME! HELP ME! Desperately need 2 MICHIGAN Studenttix for my wealthy alumni sisters. Will pay BIG BUCKS! Call John X3349 
MOTHER'S HELPER TO CARE FOR OUR 3-YEAR-OLD. MUST BE FRIENDLY, WITH EXPERIENCE AND OWN CAR. PART TIME DAYS, SOME EVENINGS. 232­2201. 
BONNIEDOON 
HAS POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
FOR SERVERS, COOKS 
AND FOUNTAIN 
Apply in person to: 52446 Dixie Way No., South Bend 4615 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
Responsible person seeking extra cash needed to deliver cakes. Approx. 45 min/day. Must own car. Call Jim or Pat x3367 or x3360 Need to see NO go for it All. Need 
App. Please call 233-1463. Leave 
name, price, and yr. 
Need female vocalist to sing with Dissfunktion. For more info. call the Cliff at 283-3283 
EXTERIOR PAINTERS Experienced Student Painters needed to paint South Bend area homes. Full or Part Time. AMERICA'S COLLEGE PAINTERS 1 (800)626-6267 "painting America's homes coast to coast" 

FOR RENT 
BED AND BREAKFAST. PRIVATE 
ENTRANCE. 291-7845. 
SHARP RIVERFRONT HOME­FOOTBALL WKNDS/SHORT TERM RENTALS. ALSO APT. & BEDROOMS.257-91 01. 
BED "N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 

FOR SALE 
RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR, TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR, TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY 
FREE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 
272-5959 

SA TIX APPLICATION FOR SALE 
45 YARD LINE BEST OFFER CALL MARTY X1165 
BIKES FOR SALE: CANN, SHW, RALEIGH. X1803 
IBM-compatible laptop, 16Mhz, 40 Mgb., Modem, weights 12pounds, BL big and clear screen + lots of software +carrying bag. $1500, call 271-1627. 
Pontiac 86 Sunbird $2000 287-6419 ask for damien or stop by at CCMB308 
DORM FRIDGE-$50-271-1532 
FOR SALE: ONE IMAGEWRITER II PRINTER FOR APPLE OR MAC. BRAND NEW. NEVER USED. $150 OR BEST OFFER. CALL TODD X1634 
Royal Typewriter, Acoustic Guitar, Women's Ross 10-speed, Gold Necklace & Bracelet, Women's Sapphire Ring, Compaq Laptop Computer: 286-SLT, 40M HD, 5.6M RAM. 272-0812. 
***TWO TICKETS FOR They Might Be Giants, face value••• call x4059--Thanks 

TICKETS 
PLEASE HELP: My dad would like to see one Michigan game before I graduate and need tickets. Call Mike 283-1161 
NORTHWESTERN TIX FOR SALE CALL JOE X1760 
I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.272-6306 
TWO USC TICKETS FOR SALE CALL AMY @ 272-6264 
FOR SALE: 4 U2 TICS SEPT 16 CHICAGO MIKE #1672 *****Diane's big sis is coming out for the Michigan game-she is unbelievably cool. She lives for NO football, and will live for you if you sell her a student or GA ticket-please please please!!!! Price negotiable. Call4059. Thanks!***.. 
Dad needs 2 GAs for Stanford. 
He's willing to pay big $$$. Call Chris A. at x1179. 
OKAY, I'M BEGGING ... My parents will pay big for Mich. tickets! $$$ 
Call#4419. 

....**NEED TIX***•••• Need 2 student tix for Michigan. 
Please call Ann at x2821. 
Have 4 Penn St. GA 
Will trade for 4 Mich GA 
Call Bo at 3502 
WANTED: GA'S/STUDENT TIX 
FOR ANY/ALL HOME GAMES­
MICH. A MUST! ALUMNI IN 
DESPERATE NEED!! 708-843­6947. 
•• I NEED 1 G.A. FOR THE •• PERDUE GAME. PLAESE HELP. CALL MARY AT x4416 
NEED TIX FOR MICH. & PENN 
BADLY. 284-5410. 
De$$perately $$eeking ticket$$ to ALL home football game$$... Call Sean*2263 
GA's For Purdue, Stanford, BYU, and Boston College For Sale or Trade For Michigan. 289-3273 
$$ Need Mich Tic $$ GA or Student -Name Your Price Call Jim 273-2969 
$$NEED 4 MICH GAs BADLY$$ CALL AMY x2609 
NEED 2 FOOTBALL TICKETS 
(TOGETHER) FOR PENN STATE­NO GAME. PRICE NEGOTIABLE. CALL BILL COLLECT DAY OR NIGHT 714-624-4010. 
Desperately seeking GAs for Michigan and Stanford !1!111! Please call Liz at x3783 or x2184. 
NEED STANFORD GA's, MICH & PSU Student tix. Will Pay $$ or exchange livestock! Rich x3367 
WILL TRADE 2 MICH GAs FOR 2 PENN ST. GAs. MATT MICKLE 
(713) 332-6709. 
NEED PENN ST. TIX. GA'S ONLY. 234-8306 OR 800-323-7687. 
N.D. ALUM FROM MEXICO RETURNING FOR MICH GAME. NEEDS TICKETS. PLEASE CALL 233-1296. 
BIG$$$$$ FOR STANFORD GA OR STUDENT TICKET. NEED ONE. CALL DAVE AT 3213.$$$$$ 
WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD GA'S AND $$$$$ FOR THREE STANFORD GA'S IN ROW. CALL DAVE AT 3213. MAKE EASY$$$ 
NEED2 MICHIGAN GA'S JOE #1112 
Selling student ticket book with all home games (section 30 seats!) Make offer: 287-6355 
NEED 1 Student Michigan ticket Call Chris at 283-2727 
HELP A SENIOR! Need 4-5 GEN or STD tkt for U MICH. Last Hope for family! Tim @289-5196 NEED 2 MICH. GA'S WILL BUY, OR TRADE FOR PURDUE, BYU, BOST. COLL. OR PENN ST. GA'S. 232-0817 
I need three Mich GA's more desperately than everyone else in this paper! II Liscence to spend ungodly amounts of money. Contact Bill at 299-1845. 
HELP! I need 1 Stanford stu. or GA ticket! Please call MB at x4121 
-HEY YOU­Got any Mich Tix? 

I need some and am DESPERATE! Call Eric at x3691 
WANTED: THREE MICHIGAN TIX C'MON, LOOK OUT FOR A DOMER! -JEFFERSON X1422 
HELP HELP HELP! I NEED A BOOK OF STUDENT TICKETS -for my over the hill Alumni Brother. If you want to sell yours, CALL BLAS AT X2645. 
will trade 2 STAN GA for 2 PSU GA or STD x1645 
Badly need 2 student or GA tickets to Michigan. Will pay good money. x2714. 
I desperately need 1 Michigan GA for someone coming all the way from California to see the game. Please call Maria at X 2126 or 3219. 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!l!!ll!!!l!!!!!!lllllll!ll!!!!!!!!!!!!ll!!ll! Ill 
I have MARRIED student tix book Need to sell Marty 1165 
!lllll!!!!!!!!!lllll!!!!!!lll!lllllllllll!!ll!l!ll!!l!!!! !Ill 
*!!!!111111111!!!!!1!!11!11!11!!!11!1!!!!!11!!!!1111111111 !II 
I have MARRIED student tix book Need to sell Marty 1165 
lllllllllll!!!!!l!lllllllll!!!!ll!!!lll!llllllllllllllll! !Ill 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 618-439-3338. 
TICKET$$ TICKET$$ TICKETS$$ $$$1 DEPERATELY N E E D 6 G. A. 's FOR MICHIGAN$$$ please, please, please, please 
CALL X2454 

Will pay big bucks for NO -MICH 
G.A. tix. Call Joe@ 287-4561. 
HAVE 2 NORTHWEST GA's NEED MICH and/or WHOLE STUD. BOOKS 288-1 027 -MARK 
I NEED 3 MICHIGAN GA'S 
DESPERATELY WILL PAY CALL MIKE AT X 2209 

WANT TO MAKE A BUCK? I REALLY NEED MICH. TICKETS! WILL PUT DEPOSIT ON TICKET BOOK. CALL JON DEBARTOLO AT x3587. 
HELPI! Need 1 MICH GA Call Scott at x4243 Good price 

PLEASE PLEASE. I NEED MICH. GA'S. CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303 BEFORE4PM, OR 272-3753 AFTER 5. SCALPERS NEED NOT CALL. 
NEED 2 MICH. GA'S. CALL 708­251-4502 & LV. MESSAGE, OR MARK RUST AT 708-982-1776. 
I NEED 2 GA MICHIGAN TICKETS I HAVE MONEY! CALL SUSAN 289-6485 
NEED TIX TO ND-MICH x3373 
I have U2 (Chi) tickets. I want PSU tickets, TRADE? 
Dan x1374. 
ALUM NEEDS TIX FOR MICH., 
STANFORD, PENN ST. CALL DAN (312) 868-0009. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Will pay crazy cash for NO -Michigan GA's. Call Paul at 289-6648. 
DESPERADO NEEDS Ml TICKET JUST ONE!! Student or GA. Call Tim x4116 
WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR GOOD NDIMICHIGAN GA's 2n3097 
NEED 1 OR MORE STANFORD GAs. JIM 273-9059 
NEED MICH T ICKET STUDENT OR GA ANN X3604 
**TRADE** TRADE ME YOUR TWO MICH-ND GA'S FOR MY TWO NWSTRN-ND GA'S AND LOTS OF MONEY. 
-GREG X3844­
Will give First Born and CASH for MICH Ttx!!! Even more for SEASON TIX!!! KAY x3489 
$$$ Need 2 GA Stanford tix. $$$ call Michele @3194. 

NO Alum needs 2 reasonably priced Michigan tix. Please call (408)492­0660 X248 or (415)579-1432. 
2 Northwestern tickets for sale Call Ellen x4294 

N.D. ALUM NEEDS 4 MICH GA'S. WILLING TO PAY OR TRADE ANY OTHER HOME GAME GA'S. PLEASE CALL (312) 327-9853 ASK FOR PAUL OR LEAVE A MESSAGE. 
LOTS of$$$!!!!! 
I want TICKET BOOKLETS! call #1756 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I need Michigan student tickets and 2BYUGA's. 
Call Molly 284-4377 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
hey! i need 3 STANFORD g.a.'s! i have buck$! call katie x4907 
I Need 2 PENN ST GAs x1212 

FOUR FRIENDS OF A PLAYER ON THE '88 TEAM NEED TIX FOR MICHIGAN GAME. THEY REALLY WANT THE TIX BAD. CALL 1075 AND ASK FOR MARK ORQUAALUDE 
I NEED MICH TIXIII!I I NEED MICH TIX!III I NEED MICH TIXII!I Please helpll Julie x4414 
I have 2 Mich stud ticks ... want'em? x3382 
NEED MICH. STUDENT ­BILL X2187 
WILL TRADE 2 BYU STUD TIX FOR 1 MICH STUD TIX PLEASE CALL JARED X1656 
DESPARATELY NEED 3 MICH TIX. WILL PAY TOP$. KJ X1302 
WANTED: MICH. AND PURDUE TIX. CALL MIKE @1151 & LEAVE MSGE. 
Wanted: MICH & PURD TIX. Call Mike@ 1151 & Leave Msg. 
RICH ALUM WILL EXCHANGE 
WIFE AND/OR $$ FOR MICH TIX 
CALL (914) 937-0907 
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&& 
NORTHWESTERN FOR SALE FACE VALUE NOT ENDZONE MIKE 1161 
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&& 
Stdt & married stdt Booklets For SALE 272-7034 
2 SENIOR (Sec. 29) FOOTBALL BOOKLETS for SALE -Best Offer Call: x1849 
PERSONAL 
FENCING CLUB: Meets 6:30-8:00, Fencing Gym, JACC. Beginners welcome. First meeting September 1st. Equipment provided. $80 per semester. 
$$$MICHIGAN$$$ WILL TRADE RESV. AT SB 
HOLIDAY 
INN ON 9/11 & 9/12 FOR 2 GA'S. CALL 283-2454. 
Hey Niff 
PRESCHOOL REGISTRATION: The Children's Community Co-op is now filling its morning classes for ages 3-5 and also the Toddler Playschool. This is a co-op with a growing popularity within the Notre Dame Community. Call for more info: Peg Moody 234-2320 (mornings). 
U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 TIX FOR SALE Sept.15 277-4716 
JUDGEMENT DAY IS COMING!!! 
***CLUB 23*** TONIGHT! Live Music! 
THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS Sept. 10 at Stepan 8:00p.m. Tix on sale at Lafortune Info desk. $8 students-$12 Gen. Public 
SHORT ON CASH ? 
Stop by MORRISSEY LOAN 
Mon. -Fri. : 11 :30 -12:30 
1st Floor LaFortune O'Hara Lounge 
30 day loans up to $250 @ 1% interest 
Make great money in your extra time as a representative for The Collegiate Investment Association. Minimal time required. Great opportunity to make extra money and add good experience to your resume. For details call (708) 533­0765. 
MARGE 
Need BC tix, student and GAs. Call 283-4271 
I Attest To Your Gray Matter 
Feed me, Seymour... 
~--~--­
I 

page 14 Friday, September 4, 1992 
!"'".,...........ll'....l,...... =.....j('":!"·... ,.....il"...i e
-• • ..... I lj"l" .... ! ...... : 11'""1"'1"1 I 0 • 
........ . 0 e •,..):...... -'•, ...... 1.....11 ..... 1 1 il '•.:."" • ~ 
' 

MLB STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS

MLB LEADERS U.S. OPEN RESULTS 
Men
AMERICAN LEAGUE BASEBALL 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Singles
Eaat Division National league
BATTING-EMartlnez, Seattle, .344; Puckett, Second Round
w l Pet GB l10 Streak Home Away CINCINNATI REDS-Called up Bobby Ayala,
Minnesota, .328; Mack, Minnesota, .327; Thomas, Jim Courier (1), Dade City, Fla., del. Andrei
Toronto 76 58 .567 5-5 Lost 1 42-24 34-34 pitcher, from Chattanooga of the Southern League.
Chicago, .321; RAiomar, Toronto, .321; Molitor, Chesnokov, Russia, 4-6, 6-3, 6-3, 6-1. 
Ballimore 75 58 .564 1/2 7-3 Won5 36-29 39-29 BASKETBALL 
29-36 Milwaukee, .316; Griffey, Seattle, .312. Jan Siemerlnk, Netherlands, del. Stefano
Milwaukee 71 62 .534 4112 4-6 Won1 42-26 National Basketball Association 
RUNS-Phillips, Detroit, 94; EMartinez, Seattle, Pescosolido, Italy, 6-3, 6-4, 7-6 (7-2). 
Detroh 63 71 .470 13 z-5-5 Lost 4 30-36 33-35 SAN ANTONIO SPURS-Signed Dave Hoppen,
93; Knoblauch, Minnesota, 90; Anderson, David Wheaton, Minneapolis, del. Jared Palmer,
NewYor!l 62 72 .463 14 z-6-4 Lost 1 33-32 29-40 center. 
Baltimore, 87; RAiomar, Wesley Chapel, Fla., 6-4, 6-4, 6-0 . 
Boston 61 72 .459 141/2 5-5 Won 1 39-29 22-43 Toronto, 85; Pucketl, Global Basketball League
Minnesota, 85; Carter, Toronto, 85. Doubles
Cleveland 60 73 .451 151/2 2-8 Lost 2 34-34 26-39 LOUISVILLE SHOOTERS-Named Derek Smith 
RBI-Fielder, Detroit, 108; JuGonzalez, Texas, Firat Round
Weal Division coach. 
98; Carter, Toronto, 95; GBell, Chicago, 94; Jakob Hlasek and Marc Rosset, Switzerland (5),
w l Pet GB l10 Streak Home Away MID-MICHIGAN GREAT LAKERS-Traded Scott 
Devereaux, Baltimore, 93; McGwire, Oakland, 93; del. Byron Black, Zimbabwe, and Todd Nelson,
Oakland 79 54 .594 z-5-5 Lost 3 40-25 39-29 Bailey, forward, to Cedar Rapids for Brent Dabbs, 
Won4 Pucketl, Minnesota, 93. San Diego, 6-4, 2-6, 6-4. 
Minnesota 75 59 .560 4 112 6-4 39-29 36-30 forward. 
HITS-Puckett, Minnesota, 175; EMartinez, Wayne Ferreira and Piet Norval, South Africa,
Chicago 69 62 .527 9 z-5-5 Won 1 43-25 26-37 FOOTBALL 
14 1/2 z-6-4 Won1 31-38 35-32 Seattle, 171; Mack, Minnesota, 165; Baerga, del. David Adams, Australia, and Andrei
Texas 66 70 .485 National Football league 
73 18 1/2 Won2 34-30 Cleveland, 163; Molitor, Milwaukee, 156; Olkhovskiy, Russia (16), 7-6 (7-2), 7-5. 
Calffornia 61 .455 z-5-5 27-43 ATLANTA FALCONS-Agreed· to terms with 
Knoblauch, Minnesota, 153; Fryman. Detroit, 153; Sergio Casal and Emilio Sanchez, Spain (13),
Kansas City 60 72 .455 18 1/2 4-6 Lost 1 36-28 24-44 Andre Rison, wide receiver. 
Devereaux, Baltimore, 153. del. Mlchiel Schapers, Netherlands, and Daniel
Seattle 56 78 .418 23 1/2 z-6-4 Lost 1 33-37 23-41 CINCINNATI BENGALS-Agreed to terms with
DOUBLES-EMartinez, Seattle, 46; Griffey, Vacek, Czechoslovakia, 7-5, 7-6 (7-3). 
Joe Walter, offensive tackle. Waived David Grant,Seattle, 35; Mattingly, New York, 34; Jefferies, Second Round
NATIONAL LEAGUE delensive end. 
Kansas City, 33; Yount, Milwaukee, 32; Reimer, Todd Woodbridge and Mark Woodforde,
Eaat Diviaion . MIAMI DOLPHINS-Signed David Griggs,
Texas, 31; Hall, New Yor!l, 31. Australia (1), de!. Henrik Holm, Sweden, and Bent­
w l Pet GB llO Strnk Home Away linebacker, to a two-year contract. 
TRIPLES-Devereaux, Baltimore, 10; Ova Pedersen, Norway, 6-4, 7-6 (7-3). 
Pittsburgh 77 56 .579 z-7-3 Won5 41-24 36-32 NEW ORLEANS SAINTS-Signed Jim Finks,
Anderson, Baltimore, 9; Lofton. Cleveland, 8;

Montreal 74 59 .556 3 z-7-3 Won5 34-31 40-28 general manager, and Jim Mora, coach, to three­
LJohnson, Chicago, 8; RAiomar, Toronto, 7; Women
Chicago 68 64 .515 8 112 z-7-3 Won 1 36-28 32-36 year contrac1 extensions. 
Listach, Milwaukee, 6; Sierra, Texas, 6; White, Sing lea
St. Louis 65 66 .496 11 z-7-3 Lost 1 35-30 30-36 HOCKEY 
Toronto, 6; Raines, Chicago, 6; Mol~or. Milwaukee, Second Round
NewYor!l 61 71 .462 15 112 z-6-4 Lost 1 35-32 26-39 National Hockey league
6. Steffi Graf (2), Germany, del. Pam Shriver.
Philadelphia 53 78 . 405 23 2·8 Lost 3 31-36 22-42 BUFFALO SABRES-Signed Doug Macdonald 
HOME RUNS-JuGonzalez, Texas, 39; Baltimore, 7-5, 6-3. 
Waat Division center; Richard Smehlik, defenseman; and Yuri 
McGwire, Oakland, 38; Fielder, Detroit, 29; Carter, Fiorencia Labat, Argentina, del. Iva Majoli,
w L Pet GB l10 Streok Home Away Khymlev and Viktor Gordijuk, leh wings. 
39-25 39-29 Toronto, 29; Deer, Detro~. 27; Belle, Cleveland, 26; Croatia, 6-3, 6-3. 
Atlanta 78 54 .591 4·6 Lost 2 LOS ANGELES KINGS-Acquired Pat Conacher,
Tetlleton, Detroit, 26. Katerina Maleeva (15), Bulgaria, del. Dominique
Cincinnati 72 61 .541 6112 z-3-7 Won 1 42-22 30-39 left wing, from the New Jersey Devils for future San Diego 70 62 .530 8 z-5·5 Won 1 40·28 30-34 considerations.
STOLEN BASES-Listach, Milwaukee. 48; Monami, Belgium, 6-3, 6-4. Lofton, Cleveland, 47; Polonia, California, 47; Nanna Dahlman, Finland, del. Rene Simpson­
Houston 63 70 .474 15 1/2 z-8-2 Won3 38-29 25-41 NEW JERSEY DEVILS-Traded Neil Brady, 
74 19 1/2 23-41 Anderson, Baltimore, 46; RHenderson, Oakland, Mer, Canada, 6-4, 6·4. Ottawa
San Fran cisco 59 .444 z-1-9 Lost 9 36-33 center. to the Senators for future Los Angeles 54 79 .406 24 1/2 2·8 Lost 1 34-35 20-44 considerations.
45; RAiomar, Toronto, 38; Raines, Chicago, 38. Carrie Cunningham, Livonia, Mich.. del. Kathy PITCHING (15 Decisions)-JuGuzman, Rinaldi, Amelia Island, Fla., 7-6 (7-2), 6-2. 
NEW YORK RANGERS-Named Dan Maloney z-denotes won first game assistant coach . 
Toronto, 12·3, .800, 2.29; JaMorris, Toronto, 18-5, Chanda Rubin, Lafayette, La., del. Nicole Prov1s. . 783, 4.19; Mussina, Baltimore, 13·5, .722, 2.81; Australia, 7-6 (7-1), 6-3. 
PITTSBURGH PENGUINS-Signed Tom

McDowell, Chicago, 18·7, .720, 3.21; Fleming, Rachel McQuillan, Australia, del. Nicole London,
Friday's Games Barrasso. goaltender. to a five-year contract. Texas (Guzman 12-10) at New Yor!l (Wickman 1-0), 7:30p.m. COLLEGE
Seattle, 15-6, .714, 3.07; Appier, Kansas C~y. 15-6, Rolling Hills Estates, Cam .. 6-1,7-6 (7-5). .714, 2.41; Boslo, Milwaukee, 12·5, .706, 3.82. Kimberly Po, Rolling Hills, Calif., del. Nicole
Minnesota (Tapani 14·9) at Toronto (Cone 0-1), 7:35p.m. BENTLEY-Named Joh Papas assistant football 
STRIKEOUTS-Clemens, Boston, 183; Perez, Arendt, Princeton, N.J., 7-6 (7-2), 7-6 (12-10). 
Seattle (Fleming 15-6) at Cleveland (Mesa 5-10), 7:35p.m. coach and Ann Marie Larese assistant volleyball Milwaukee (Bosio 12·5) at Detroit (Gullickson 14-8), 7:35p.m. coach.
New York, 179; RJohnson, Seattle, 174; Appier, Manuela Maleeva-Fragniere (9), del. Louise 
Kansas City, 146; JsGuzman, Texas, 144; Ryan, Allen, San Antonio, 6-4, 6-2. Texas, 142; KBrown, Texas, 141. Noelle van Lottum, France. del. Ann Grossman,
Chicago (Fernandez 6-8) at Kansas C~y (Appier 15·6), 8:35p.m. BOWDOIN-Named Daniel Hammond tennis and 
Boston (Darwin 7-6) at Oakland (Stewart 1 0·8), 9:15p.m. squash coach and Maureen Flaherty women's field
SAVES-Eckersley, Oakland, 42; Aguilera, Grove C~y. Ohio, 7-6 (9·7), 6-4.
Baltimore (Sutcliffe 14-11) at California 1Langs1o!l..1.2-11), 10:35 p.m. hockey and lacrosse coach. 
Minnesota. 36; Montgomery, Kansas City, 32; Amanda Coetzer, South Africa, del. Nathalie 
Saturday's Games NATIONAL LEAGUE BROWN-Named Joseph Breschi men's assistant 
Olson, Baltimore, 31; JeRussell, Oakland, 28; Tauziat (12), France, 6·0, 6·0.
Texas at New York, 1:30 p.m. lacrosse coach. Reardon, Boston, 27; Henry, Milwaukee. 25. Magdalena Maleeva, Bulgaria, del. Martina
Thursday's Gamea 
Minnesota at Toronto, 1:35 p.m. CLARION-Named Jodi Pezek Burns women's
Montreal 11, Atlanta 2 Navratilova (3), Aspen, Colo., 6-4, 0-6, 6-3. 
Seattle at Cleveland, 1:35 p.m. volleyball and sohball coach. 
Cincinnati 4, New York 3 
Andrea Strnadova, Czechoslovakia, del. GingerPittsburgh 9, San Francisco 3 
Boston at Oakland, 4:05 p.m. DARTMOUTH-Named Sandra Ford-Centonze
Helgeson, San Diego, 6-3, 7-6 (7-5).Only games scheduled
Milwaukee at Detro~. 7:05p.m. women's track and field and cross country coach. 
Zina Garrison (14), Houston, del. Silke Meier. Friday's Games
Chicago at Kansas City, 8:05p.m. DEPAUL-Announced the dismissal of Howard
Germany, 6-2, 2·6, 6-4. 
Ba~imore at Cal~ornia, 10:05 p.m. Nathan, sophomore basketball guard, for
San Diego (Harris 2·6) at Chicago (Castillo 8-1 0), 3:20p.m. 
Double•
Sunday's Games academic reasons.
New Yor!l (Fernandez 11·9) at Cincinnati (Belcher 11-12), 7:35p.m. 
Firat Round
Texas at New York, 1:30 p.m Houston (J.Jones 8-5) at Montreal (K.Hill 14-7), 7:35p.m. FORDHAM-Named Dr. Suzanne Mclaughlin
Sabine Appelmans, Belgium, and Judith

Minnesota at Toronto, 1:35 p.m. Los Angeles (Ke.Gross 6·13) at Pittsburgh (Tomlin 13-8), 7:35p.m. athlete dean advisor, Pablo Veledon water polo
Wiesner, Austria, del. Ana Segura and Janet
Seattle at Cleveland, 1 :35 p.m. coach, and Bill Ho~z graduate assistant for sports
Philadelphia (Schilling 11-9) at Atlanta (Giavine 19-5), 7:40p.m. 
Souto, Spain, 6-2, 6-0.
Milwaukee at Detro~. 2:35p.m. media relations. 
San Francisco (Wilson 8-14) at St. Louis (Olivares 8-8), 8:05p.m. 
Rosalyn Fairbank-Nideffer, Escondido, Calif..

Chicago at Kansas City, 2:35p.m. MANHATTAN-Named Coco Vanderslice­
Saturday'• Gamea 
and Gretchen Magers, San Diego, del. Jean
Baltimore at California, 4:05p.m. Lefkowitz women's assistant basketball coach and
San Diego at Chicago, 2:20p.m. 
Ceniza, Los Angeles, and lwalani McCalla, Santa
Boston at Oakland, 8:05p.m. Michele Brusseau women's graduate assistant
New York at Cincinnati, 7:05p.m. 
Clara, Calif., 3-6, 6·2, 6-2. 
basketball coach. Promoted Len Kaplan, director ofLos Angeles at Pittsburgh, 7:05p.m. 
Tracy Morton, Australia, and Clare Wood, Britain, Philadelphia at Atlanta, 7:10p.m. 
operations. to assistant athletic director. 
del. Caroline Kuhlman. Lakeside Park, Ky., and Houston at Montreal, 7:35p.m. 
ST. BONAVENTURE-Named Joe Lombardi, Jim 

Lup~a Novelo, Mexico, 6-3, 7-6 (7·5).San Francisco at St. Louis, 8:05p.m. 
Datka and Rob Lanier men's assistant basketballMercedes Paz, Argentina, and Conchita coaches and Marlene Whitmore women's assistant
Sunday'• Game• 
Martinez, Spain, del. Shaun Stafford, Gainesville, basketball coach.
Houston at Montreal, 1:35 p.m. 
Fla.. and Marianne Werdel, Palo Alto. Calif., 7-5, 6­
Los Angeles at Pittsburgh, 1 :35 p.m. ST. LOUIS-Named Russell Brightman men's
2. 
go~ coach.
Philadelphia at Atlanta, 2:t0 p.m. 
Sandy Collins, Odessa, Texas, and Stephanie

New York at Cincinnati, 2:15p.m. TENNESSEE-Named Phillip Fulmer interim
Rehe, Oceanside, Calif. (7), del. Debbie Graham, San Francisco at St. Louis, 2:15p.m. 
football coach.
Fountain Valley, Calif., and Brenda Schultz, San Diego at Chicago, 2:20p.m. 
Netherlands, 6-1, 6·1. 
THE HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE ... 
..on the campus" ..., 
OPEN MONDAY -SATURDAY 9-5 

$2 DOLLARS OFF! 
Compact Discs 
$1 DOLLARS OFF! Cassettes 
EXPIRES 09/10/92 
ONE COUPON PER PURCHASE FOR UNLIMITED NI..M3ER OF ca-FACT DISCS CASSETTES PURCHASED AT ONE TIME 
CASSETTE SINGLES AND SALE ITEMS) 
--' 

~--­
Friday, September 4, 1992 The Observer page 15 
..
Penguins search for coach, expected to sign Barrasso 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -The Pittsburgh Penguins may be ready to replace the winningest coach in NHL history with one of the losingest coaches from their own not-always-splendid past. 
Eddie Johnston, seemingly a forgotten relic of bad Penguins hockey of days gone by, has emerged as the top -and, maybe, only -candidate to re­place Scotty Bowman as coach of the two.-time Stanley Cup champions. 
Johnston, whose coaching record is the third-worst in Penguins history, has agreed in principle to a three-year con­tract that would pay him $27 5,000, $300,000 and $300,000, according to sources close to the team. 
His hiring could come as early as this week, though Penguins general manager Craig Patrick and Johnston still were trying to iron out contract language. 
Johnston was fired last spring as the general manager of the Hartford Whalers, a position he had held since May 1989. He took the Whalers' job one year after being replaced by Tony Esposito as the Penguins gen­eral manager. Johnston fulfilled the last year of his contract by serving as Esposito's assistant. 
Patrick identified Bowman as his only coaching candidate several months ago, but the two sides were unable to reach an agreement following prolongPd negotiations. The Penguins aad 
Attention College of Business Administration Juniors 
If you are interested in serving on the College of Business Administration College Council please submit your resume to Assistant Dean Sam Gaglio, room 132 Hayes... Healy Center, no later than September 18, 1992. 
Bowman were about $50,000 a year apart on a multi-year contract when talks broke off last month. 
Patrick has refused to com­
ment on the negotiations. 
Faced with a limited field of 
candidates and with training 
camp about to start, Pittsburgh 
apparently turned to Johnston, 
who hasn't coached since 1982­
83. His Penguins were an NHL­worst 18-53-9 that season. 
His 79-126-35 record (.402) from 1980-83 is the third worst among the 13 coaches in Penguins history, ahead of only Red Sullivan ( 4 7 -79-24) and Lou Angotti (16-58-6). However, the Penguins did make the playoffs twice in Johnston's three seasons and he also made the single-most-important personnel move in the franchise's 25-year history by drafting Mario Lemieux in 1984. 
Johnston was the Penguins' general manager for five sea­sons beginning in May 1983, when he succeeded the late Baz Bastien. Besides drafting Lemieux, he engineered the 1987 trade for All-Star de­fenseman Paul Coffey. 
"He's a good guy, a good coach," said Lemieux, an 18­year-old star in Canadian junior hockey when Johnston made him the NHL's top draft choice. 
Johnston's friendly relation­ship with Lemieux is viewed by the Penguins as a positive, especially considering Bowman's often-combative dealings with his players. 
Meanwhile, the Penguins are expected to announce today that goaltender Tom Barrasso, who was in the option year of his contract, has agreed to a three-year deal worth about $5.2 million. Barrasso had threatened not to report to training camp next week with­


Cup Night! 
You may have missed last Thursday ... Don't miss this one! 
T WILL BE CRAZY! l"'he place to be for the 
''Class of '93'' 
must be 21 

The Penguins also plan to confirm the signing of free­agent forward Dave Tippett, formerly of the Washington Capitals. 
Tippett, 31, had two goals and 10 assists in 30 games last sea­son and would help the Penguins fill the void left by the retirement of centers Bryan Trottier and Jiri Hrdina. 
The Penguins also must re­place Phil Bourque, a defense­minded forward who played a valuable role on their two Stanley Cup championship teams. Bourque was paid $160,000 last season, but will make about $2 million over four years with the New York Rangers. 
Patrick told the New York 
Daily News the decision not to 
pursue Bourque was an eco­
nomic one. The Penguins' pay­
roll, the third-highest in the 
league, is expected to grow 
substantially due to Barrasso's 
contract and ongoing negotia­
tions on multi-year contracts 
with Lemieux and Jaromir Jagr. 
"We signed Dave Tippett, who 
is a similar-type player (to Bourque) and we've got Shawn McEachern, who can play cen­ter, left wing or right wing and -who may have similar speed," 
Patrick said. 

AP File Photo Penguins goalie Tom Barrasso is expected to sign a new contract with the Stanley Cup champs, but coach Scotty Bowman is not. 
Taco Bell Presents 
AMERICA'S ROCK 'N' ROLL BAND 
See them two way~CTRtC...THEN ACOUSTtC~ 
---. ---------­
page 16 The Observer Friday, September 4, 1992 
Belichick prepares for Colts 
Browns' coach will meet his mentor, Marchibroda 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) tremendous learning experi­that Belichick has become a Seventeen years ago Bill ence." head coach. Belichick was delighted to earn "It's a year that I'll never for­''I'm very happy for Bill's $25 a week learning from Ted get." success and I'm also very happy Marchibroda. On Sunday, the Belichick and Marchibroda for the way he achieved it," Cleveland coach will match wits developed respect for each Marchibroda said. with his former tutor. other in Baltimore. "He worked very hard. He 
'Til be forever grateful to Ted "I didn't really care if I got didn't step on anybody's toes, for giving me an opportunity in anything. I just wanted the op­always stayed in the the National Football League," portunity," Belichick recalled. background and when the said Belichick. "After a couple of weeks, I opportunity came he was 
He was a 23-year-old with no found out that I was doing such prepared for it, "the Colts head coaching experience when a good job that I got a raise to coach commented. Marchibroda hired him as a $50.... They told me not to The Browns defeated special assistant with the then­spend it all in one place. By the Indianapolis 31-0 in December Baltimore Colts. time they took out taxes and during a season in which the 
That year, the Colts overcame everything, there really wasn't Colts finished 1-15. a 1-4 start to finish 10-4 and much." This lead to the return of win the AFC East champi­Belichick said he didn't need Marchibroda who has been an onship. Belichick, now in his much since the club provided a assistant since the Colts fired second year coaching the hotel room, he rode to and from him following the 1979 NFL Cleveland Browns, left after practice with Marchibroda and season. that year to become assistant the coaching staff frequently fed Belichick expects things to be coach at Detroit, Denver and him. much tougher Sunday when the New York Giants. "The hours that we were both teams open their season. 
While with the Giants, putting in, I really didn't have Belichick coordinated their de­time for anything else and re­"Offensively, it's a whole new fense, which led them to victo­ally didn't want to do anything look," he said of the system ries in Super Bowl XXI and else," he said. Marchibroda has installed. Super Bowl XXV. "He was a worker," "The biggest change that I no­
"It was a thrilling year for me. Marchibroda said. "When I tice in the Colts is the attitude Professionally, it was a great gave him some work, he never they have. I think Ted's done a experience to be able to really questioned it and he always great job generating a lot of live with Ted, go to work with brought it back complete. He enthusiasm. him daily and his staff." was one of those guys who "You can see the players are Belichick said Wednesday in a would do whatever it takes." playing hard; they're playing teleconference. "It was a Marchibroda isn't surprised with confidence. 
Montana questions Niners moves 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -criticize the very same inner he said. "For what? If I can't get Quarterback Joe Montana says drive that makes him the great ready for the regular season, he wants to play. If he can't, he quarterback that he is? That's why jeopardize myself in an says he may leave the 49ers. just Joe. You got to love him." exhibition game." 
"I would rather go to another Montana, who will earn $3 Montana did not suit up for team and be able to play. I million this season, underwent the game, but did throw 35 15­think it's just a natural reaction elbow surgery in October. He yarders to backup Steve Bono for a competitor," Montana threw normally at 49ers mini­about an hour before. He said said. "Show me somebody who camps in May and June, but he was encouraged by the likes to be on the bench and I'll was sidelined Aug. 1 when his tosses. show you someone who is al­arm became inflamed. ways on the bench." "The arm felt great, better 
Montana is on the injured re­Montana said he was first told than it did going to training serve because of recurring arm he was going to be placed on camp," he told the San trouble and won't play the first the injured reserve last Francisco Examiner. "I couldn't four 49ers games of the season. Thursday, then asked if he help but think that it would Instead, Steve Young will start. would make an appearance in a have been good to rejoin Montana said he has nothing preseason game against the practice on Monday." against Young, the first to take Seattle Seahawks on Friday. the starting job from Montana Montana was officially placed But Montana can't practice since 1981. on the IR on Tuesday. with the team until the fourth 
"It has nothing to do with my game. Until then, he will throw contract, the 49ers or Steve," "I can't imagine why they four times a week with condi­Montana said. wanted me to go out and make tioning coach Jerry Attaway to 
Montana claims no one from a little ceremonial appearance," assistant trainer Ray Tufts. 
the team watched him throw before he was put on the JR. 
49ers owner Eddie DeBartolo Jr. said he thought Montana's reaction was natural. 
"Some people would criticize him for being so stubborn and unrealistic about coming back," said DeBartolo. "How can you 
Indiana Auto Insurance Our good rates may save you money. Call fi:>raquote9-5, 289-1993. Office near cam!XJS. 
;:::::=::;:;:;;;;;::;;:;::;;:;;;:;::;;;;;::::::::;j
SURVEY RESEARCH 
TECHNICIANS 

Flexible s.chedules available for 'The best and brightest." Able to work 4PM . 10PM or.5:30 PM • 10:30 PM during the week and EITHER 9AM • JPM or JJO. 9:30PM on Saturday OR 11AM. SPM or 5:30PM to 9:30 PM on Sunday to do survey research interviewing. coding_ and datil entry in our growing South Bend Research Operations Center. Excellent compensation and working conditions. PC experience desired. Typing required. Send resume or letter of interelt to: Market Strategies, 108 N. Main, Suite 311, South Bend, IN 46601 or call 219­233-3454 for appointment. 
ALSO lURING WEEKENDS ONLY 

Oilers do not know which Steeler team they will face 
HOUSTON (AP) ,..... It appears ordinator is Ron Erhardt. assistant head coach for the
the Houston Oilers are playing Giants last season. 
four teams in Sunday's opener Cowher will give the Oilers ain the Astrodome. 

hint. He'll do something
While the Pittsburgh Steelers different from 1990. when hewill be the only opponent on tried to slow the Oilers' run·the field, film canisters labeled 
and-shoot as thtl Chiefs'
Pittsburgh, Kansas City, New defensive coordinator. 
Orleans and New York Giants 
"We won't use the samelittered the Oilers meeting 
SGheme we did two years agorooms all week. Coach Jack when Warren was passing for 
Pardee and his staff were 
500 yards." Cowher said. 
trying to figure out what the Moon threw for 527 yards in
Steelers' melting pot of 
a 2 7 ·10 victory that was thecoaches will throw at them. 
second best passing
"We're guessing," quarter­performance in NFL historyback Warren Moon admitted. 
behind Los Angeles' Norm Van "They have a secondary coach Brocklin 's 554 yards in 1951. 
that was with Cincinnati. They If the Steelers are causing the
have a coordinator that was Oilers problems, the Oilers'with New Orleans and then 
run-and-shoot is giving
they have a coordinator for a Cowher headaches. 
head coach who was with ''It's become a part of the
Kansas City." 
NFL; it's a different identity,"
The Oilers. 4-1 in the 
Cowher said. "It's an offenseexhibition season and favorites you have to prepare for now
to win their second straight 
with Detroit and Atlanta alsoAFC Central title, expect to 
running the four wide re­
solve the mystery by Sunday's ceivers."
kickoff. 
The Steelers won't have any
''We're getting a little 
recognition problems with the
combination of all three of 
Oilers offense or defense. 
those. so we're seeing how Moon established NFL
those three teams played us records with 404 completions
and then try to prepare that on 655 passing attempts last
way," Moon said. 
year and he led the NFL with
It's a sign of the changing 
4,690 passing yards. the thirdtimes inPittsburgh. 
time in NFL history a quarter·
Cone is trap·happy Chuck 
back had consecutive 4,000­Noll and in his place is Bill yard performances. He joinsCowher, Kansas City's de­Miami's Dan Marino and Sanfensive coordinator last year. 
Diego's Dan Fouts. 
·Cowherhas assembled a staff that includes defensive Haywood Jeffires became thec<iordinator Dom Capers, fifth receiver in NFL hisiory toformer defensive backs coach catch 100 passes last season. 
at New Orleans, and defensive He's joined by Ernest Givins
backs coach Dick LeBeau, and Curtis Duncan. while
Cincinnati's defensive coordi· Leonard Harris will replacenator the past eight seasons. 
Drew Hill. a Plan B loss to
The new offensive co-
Atlanta. 


Say you saw us in The Observer Haircuts $6.00 with Student l.D. 
277~0057 
2 mi. N of campus on U.S. 31 
Fast • Hot • Perfect 

Serving Notre Dame, St. Mary's & South Bend area r----7, L---, r-----; L---, rLAT-ENiGiTrsrEciALI
1 1-14 arge 1 1 2-14 arge 1 1 9p.m.-close 1 I 1 Topping I I 1 Topping I I 1-14" Large I HOURS I p· I I p· I I 1Topping I M-Th -11:00am -1:00am I $6l~:a I I $1olz~: I I Pizza I Fri-Sat -11 :OOam-3:00am I -+Tax I I -I I $595_ I Sun-Noon-1:00am
+T?• 

I ..0.1 I ~~I ...l 
Additiooal Toppingo.95¢ each Additional Toppiflll' .95¢ each Additional Toppings .95¢ each
.J .J •Ta .J
INot Valid With Any Other Coupon I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon INot Valid With Any Other Coupon 
... _______ liill-------liiil------­



Friday, September 4, 1992 The Observer page 17 
Rookie Lindros becomes the highest-paid _player in NHL 
TORONTO (AP) -Eric Lindros hasn't played an NHL game but the Philadelphia Flyers rookie is already at the top of one category -the salary lisL 
Lindros has a base salary of $3 million for 1992-93 and will also receive a $3-million signing bonus spread evenly in $500,000 payments over six years, giving him a salary of $3.5 million for this season. 
Lindros stands to make even more because his contract calls for individual bonuses and salary revisions based on the bonuses. 
The figure and information is contained in a salary survey compiled by the NHL Players' Association, a copy of which was obtained by The Canadian Press. 
Lindros stands to make 100 times more than Steve Junker of the New York Islanders should Junker wind up in the minors. Jun~er, Lindros's teammate at the 1992 world junior hockey championships, has base salary of $145,000 if he skates in the NHL and $30,000 if he is sent down. 
Lindros's salary makes him the top dollar earner in the NHL, moving him past Wayne Gretzky at $3 million and Mark Messier at $2.385 million. 
However, few people doubt The Great One will be No. 2 for long. It's believed that Los Angeles Kings owner Bruce McNall has an unwritten promise that Gretzky will never trail in the salary race. 
One player who saw the list was shocked by what Lindros will earn. 
"I thought, 'Wow,"' said Steve Yzerman of the Detroit Red Wings, who received $1.5 million last season. "It seemed like there were a lot of threes and a lot of zeros." 
Yzerman said the Flyers may have opened the door to higher salaries by signing Lindros to such a lucrative deal. 
"In a sense, Eric was a free agent because every team in the league had a shot at him," Yzerman said earlier this week. "It shows you what kind of dol­lars a player can make if there was free agency in this league. Down the line, it will affect a lot of players, I'm sure." 
Lindros isn't the only recent addition to the millionaires' club, 
Defenseman Dave Manson of the Edmonton Oilers will earn $1.1 million this season and next, while his paycheck jumps to $1.2 million in 1994-95 and 1995-96. 
Rugged forward Brendan Shanahan of the St. Louis Blues, a 33-goal scorer in 1991-92, has a base salary of $1 million and a $390,000 signing bonus for a $1.390 total for 1992-93. 
Veteran defenseman Mark Howe of the Detroit Red Wings will make $1.05 million based on a salary of $700,000 and signing bonus of $350,000. •1 
~ 
Goalie Tom Barrasso signed a five-year deal worth a reported 1 
1
$6.5 million on Thursday. New York Rangers goalie John 
1
Vanbiesbrouck signed a three­year deal Wednesday for $1 
l 
million a year. 
l 
ND PRE-LAW SOCIE 
Senior Meeting 
September 8th at 7:30p.m. in Cushing Auditorium 



Happy 21st Birthday 
Jessica Sunshine 
We're really 
excited too! 


Tll EPf)l~TE 

AT SAINT JOSEPH 
~or yraduate Students and~acu[ty 
We af.so have furnished e((!-cutive suites 
Office J-{qurs: Monday-~riday 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Saturday 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 
307 LaSaUe .91.venue, Soutfi tEem[, Inaiana 46617 (219) 287-2684 
adjustments that need to be Oates returning, the Irish are made, but we're taking it one already a dangerous offensive
Men 
game at a time." team. And the addition of .. Not too many adjustments freshmen Bill Lanza, Virginia's 
continued from 20 
appear to be necessary for the Gatorade Player of the Year in 20th-ranked Irish. 1991, and Eric Ferguson will freshmen competing to fill the Inexperience caused some de­only add to the team's scoringfinal three spots. 
fensive lapses against the ability.
Sunday's match will give fans Hoosiers, but the offense re­"We'll find out right away a look at the future of college turns the bulk of last season's how good we can be," Berticelli soccer. Coach John Rennie's firepower. said. "This is not an easy way to Blue Devils will feature as many Senior Kevin Pendergast and start the season, but it will give as eight underclassmen in the junior Mike Palmer both shifted us some idea of where we
starting lineup, and the Irish 
from midfield to defense during stand." 
started eight sophomores and a the preseason and they're still 
freshman in last weekend's 
learning the ropes. 
V-Ball
exhibition. 
"We're trying to improve our 
Notre Dame is concentrating 
defense, but it's the kind of 
on UCLA, however, and will continued from page 20 
thing that takes time," Berticelli 
worry about Duke on Sunday. 
said. "We're also trying some 
"We're concerned with the leyball Monthly, while both the 
things that will make us more
first game," Berticelli ex­Irish and Cardinals are among
dangerous on attack." 
plained. "We'll see Duke the 'the best of the rest'. Notre
With last year's two leading
night before and we'll make the Dame upset the Cardinals twice 
scorers Jean Joseph and Tim 
last year and lost to the 
Wildcats twice. The second
Interested in health 
loss to Kentucky came in the finals of the NIVC in a hotly
or life insurance? 
contested match. 
n
LINCOLN 
NATIONAL 

Contact
LIFE INSURANCE 
COMPANY 
An Aff1i1ate of L1ncoln Nat1onal Corporat•on 

Randy 


American Heart Association
232-1477 Beckhalll 
Student fares. 

·s students. Hacienda oarne and St. Mary . d would like to 
is~~~::dh:S!~ ~~~~hac~~:tS~~~~ !~~ :;;~e::eshrnents in 
. that fort e
remind you e to Hacienda. 
town. come horn 
Mon -Our famous $Z 95
Wet Burrito (smaller) ...... .. . . . 
Tues _Choice of any . Burrito Corn00. ~th nee .....$Z.95 
and soup or ch111 . · · · · · · · · · · · 

Wed. -Soft Shell Beef Taco $2..95 with rice and beans ··· · · · · · · · ..· 
Thurs. _Beef Enchilada $2..95 with rice and beans · · · · · · · · · · .. 
f .. _Seafood Enchilada $2..95 . !th rice and beans ..... . ....... of you over 21 . don t . d d * And for those 
1 ays 1nclu e · ts FREE chips ·n sauce a~::t~aily specials on refreshrn-en__· ---::-;=:-;;-----­forget we also nave g ­
\\0\(\e to Hacie South Bend Scottsdale Mall 
o~~~~q
291-2566 

Pe Rd ~~srn~aa~ictge Plaza (J~H,.il~o~ExclcAHeiREilESTAuRANTda
G

ra -277-1318 S 33 at 100 Center 
U 

-------·-·_2:5:9=-8=5~4~1~~~~-::·~o~m-e--in~or~de~rs:o-niY:·~ 

· OH~Cienda Mex1c~n Resta"J~~cts ·' t 992 

f t f f f' f # ~ f I ( f J r I I f t f· ~ I I' t I ·• I I t # f W f ..--~ f ·~ I ~ .... TT' ~-r-r r I .-i 11 f f 1 • f • .f I l f : r f t I « f f f f f t I I' 'I t -t' of I I t • t I t' 'I t' J ' ~ .l t f f I •· ' . I .l ' . ' , 1 • ~. 1 • ' • • • 
page 18 The Observer Friday, September 4, 1992
.. 
Belles soccer ties Valparaiso, 0-0 Kalamazoo awaits Belles 
By MAGGIE HELLRUNG Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's Belles were at an absolute standstill last night after a scrimmage against Valparaiso University left both teams scoreless, 0-0. 
"1 was hoping for a victory, but unfortunately, this wasn't the game for it," said Coach Tom VanMeter, "we have to learn to play together and de­
~~~~~~~~-----------------­
.=:=:===:=:::;;:::::::;:::=:=::::::::::::::==::::::::=::::::::==::::::::::::::::5::::::::::::::::77n Division I Valparaiso 3-0 , as well as in their 1990 season. 
"We were missing quite a few girls, which put us at a disad­vantage,"said VanMeter. 
Although there were some serious position changes due to graduating starters from last year's team, the overall feeling in the athletic department is that of promise. 
" We're pleased with this year's team," said Dr. Jo-Ann Nester, director of athletics at Saint Mary's, "We have a strong returning core and some decent recruits." 
"I've got a good team."says Vanmeter, "Things will happen for us, but we are going to have to work for it." 
Next Friday the Belles will go head to head with Loyola University at Saint Mary's . 
VanMeter feels optimistic about the Loyola game. 
"I want to take advantage of next weekend because it is a football weekend. We have a week to prepare and I think we have an opportunity for a vic­tory. I think it is important to show the fans that we have something really good to offer across the street." 
"I have confidence in their abil­ities." 
The Irish enter the contest ranked 18th, and N.C. State is the first of seven ranked oppo­nents the Irish will face this year. 
Although Petrucelli doesn't usually note the rankings, he is happy that his team is getting national recognition. 

velop some continuity." 
The scrimmage, hosted by Valparaiso, allowed some of the younger players to take part in the action after injuries during Sundays' scrimmage against Notre Dame kept a few starters out of the game. Saint Mary's senior Cindy Jordan, defense for the Belles, suffered a par­tially torn medial collateral ligament in the knee. Junior and defense/halfback Mandy 

Women 
continued from page 20 
major problem for the Irish defense. 
"We have worked a little more with the players who are going to match up with their scorers," he said. 
Defenders Jill Matesic and Andrea Kurak anchor the de­fensive unit, and will be looked upon to step up as the younger players develop. 
Two additional players who should have key roles in Saturday's game are goalkeeper Kim Gold and sweeper Ashley Scharff. Gold takes over for the injured Lodyga, while Scharff · 
SMC 
continued from page 20 
Junior teammate Michelle Martino also has faith in their co-captain. "She's a good as­set," she said. "She helps out everyone when they get down." 
Lorton, a Business Adminis­tration major, would like a job in sports marketing when she graduates. Interested in any aspect, whether it be with products or players, she enjoys sports and wants to remain a part of them. 
Lorton's skill and enthusiasm can be seen as she and her teammates open their season tomorrow at the Kalamazoo College Tournament in Kala­mazoo, Michigan. The Belles open their home season against Loyola University on Friday, September 11, on their home floor in Angela Athletic Facility. 
Eiler suffered a sprained ankle, but should be ba,ck on the field by next week. Several other players were not able to attend the scrimmage because of aca­demic obligations. Junior for­ward Megan Dalsaso also did not participate in the scrim­mage because of a family emergency which called her out of town. 
Victory over their Indiana neighbor is something the Belles had grown used to. Last season the Belles defeated 
By EILEEN MCGUIRE Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team will begin the 1992 season at the Kalamazoo College Tournament this Saturday. 
Coach Julie Schoeder-Biek, currently in her second season, is apprehensive about begin­ning the season with a tourna­ment but has confidence that the Belles will come out on top. 
"We've only had two weeks together including tryouts. However. we have more talent and depth which would make 
for a successful season," stated Schoeder-Biek. 
The Belles possess six re­turners, two of whom are se­niors -a recipe for great suc­cess. The ultimate goal for the volleyball team is simple: to ac­quire more national attention and obtain a bid in the NCAA 
tournament. Last season, the Belles placed first in the nation in blocking 


percentage. Producing individ­ual records in hitting percent­
age and achieved sets were senior co-captain Karen Lorton and junior Michelle Martino. 
Beginning Saturday, Schroeder-Biek would like to see the start of many more in­dividual records. 
The team will have to defeat four of the eight teams in Saturday's confrontation in order to place in the tourna­ment. The Belles will have to face Kalamazoo who, last year, was ranked third nationally . 
"We played them well last year," praised Schroeder-Biek. "This season, Kalamazoo lost many key players so n,o one knows what to expect." 
"We're trying out a new de­fense this year. Hopefully, this tournament will allow us to work on it. I'm confident we will do well." 
Does Your Heart Good. 
American Heart Association 




UNIVERSITY RESUME SERVICE 
Resumes/Technical/Creative Wn"ting 
Stand out from the crowd with the real experts in resumes 
Suite 23C, Box 5, 6910 N. Gumwood., Granger, IN 46530 • 219/277-1700 
Lociitt-d in University C • .udcns, comer of SR 23 Jnd Gumwood, 1/.f mile e"st of UP mall 


.-----~--­
Today 

Friday, September 4, 1992 page 19 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

BILL WATTERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
TP. \)~ DA. 'OA"'-A.M! l't.\ STTIPENPOVS MANl 




SPELUNKER 
+t£LL..D ,LoVE.F<S Of RicH 50GIAL.. SflllR£1 11115 IS YouR OL' PAL REJECTION ­
MAN TAI<IN' A BREAK 
F I< OM M'/ N£W JVB. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Windblown 33 •... and be thou 
1 Small flounders like to-":5 Woody's scion Song of 
9 Pierre's date 
Solomon 13 Foil for a fencer 
34 Several kings of 14 Ore stratum Norway 
15 Theda of silents 
38Author 16 Fun in numbers, Deighton with "the" 
39Void 19 Resembling 
40 Safari hat stein contents 41 Conductor 

20 A haft is one Bruno _ 21 Little-red-43 Pekoe schoolhouse forerunner 
supplies 23 Oscar-winning 45 Elongated 1984 film mussel 
27 ·-I I bade 50 Soaps, e.g. good-morrow": 52 Annie of Keats songdom 
30 Lacking 53 Trumpet fanfare direction .. :,~,..~--Hit has its tricks 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~+=-!+!:.Jill~ ~~~ 
~;...+.,;.~~~ 

~:'-t:::+:':-t:t-:::­~:...+=.,:+:=-l ~;;;..L;;:~ 

Bur THEN T G.OT MY N~vJ ::foB AND I REALIZ-ED HAN vJ115 SJ\'IA-1-L PoTAToS! IN 
THf LAST FEW Dli'{5 TltE ScOPE Of MY R€Jt;Gf1DNS HAS INCRtASGD TEN-FOlD DANbJ, I'M HAPPY! BUT, flt.AS, MY BREAK IS oveR. 
SACK 1l> (}.)OR!<. 

57 Funny situation 60 Amanuensis, at 
times 61 Singer Brickell 620bligea 
borrower 63 Raised select animals 64 Kind of touch 
65"­
Perpetua;" Idaho motto 
DOWN 
1 Remove a spar 2 Astronaut carrier 3 Family of executed Soviet secret-police 
chief 4 Takes care of 5 Rowan 6 Movie unit 
7Dalai~ 
8The last 9 Overseas 10 Small town's 
28 Baked clay pot 42 Congrio 54 Within: Comb. big street: 29 Handle 44 Measured form Slang 32 Pr.efix with date 46 Rush violently 55 Popular 
11 Sinful emotion 47 Emulates pre-weekend
34 Okla. Indians acronym

12 Musician's Crass us 
35 Body of 

attribute 48Cheerful 57 Experimental
knowledge ctr.

17"... -the 49--well
360n-with 

rub": Hamlet 51 "... for 58 Ventilate
(equal to) 18 Type of candle spacious-" 59 Assembled
37 Quality of being 22 Sellout notice 
limited 24 Republic near 39 List of 
Get answers to any three clues
England corrigenda 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420·
25 Skyway saucers 41 Raquel of 26 Editor's O.K. filmdom 5656 (75¢ each minute). 

• 
"I'm afraid we're going to have to head back, folks.... We've got a warning light on up here, and darn if it isn't the big one." 
JAY HOSLER 

HELL 0 I LJ ~ L [ 0 [Tl( TO 
-.
DART .... 
CAMPUS 
Friday 

7:30 
and 9:45p.m. Film: "Wayne's World." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. 

7:30 
p.m. Folk Dancing. Club House, Saint Mary's College. 


8 and 10:30 p.m. Film: "Crazy People," Cushing Auditorium. 
Saturday 8 and 10:30 p.m. Film: "Grand Canyon," Cushing Auditorium. 
MENU 

Saint Mary's 
Potato Bar Chinese Bar Fried Perch 


Sports 
page 20 Friday, September 4, 1992 
.'•. 
NICOLE MCGRATH 
I'll take it my way 

A Dodgers' fan woes and other random thoughts 
They are the bad news bears and they are my team -sad to say. I am an out of the closet Los Angeles Dodgers fan. 
Now, I think, many of you can relate to those pathetic past seasons when "your" team, well, let's say, stunk. 
For me, there were such high hopes. Pitcher Ore! Hersheiser would ride his 1988 World Series tidal wave talent back to a seemingly solid bullpen. Darryl Strawberry would prove his fancy price tag to L.A. fans, as well as Mets' fans, was no fluke, and his best friend Eric Davis would do the same to the Reds' supporters who hassled him during his time in Cincinnati. 
Well, the Mets' and Reds' fans are having the last laugh.. though Mets' backers can relate to my deflated ex­pectations. 
But, suddenly, last April, Los Angeles went up in flames while the Dodgers' potential bit the dust. 
Remembering better days on the field is my only comfort. ( And rookie Eric Karros and maybe Tommy Lasorda will take a job in Tampa Bay ..) 
In 1981, a skinny nine-year-old kid screamed herself hoarse when her players Ron Cey, Steve Garvey and Fernando Valenzuela won the World Series over the New York Yankees. 
In 1988, a seventeen-year-old girl stood in front of her television. jaw to the floor. When Kirk Gibson knocked the stadium lights out with a homerun, he not only clinched the game but the World Series. 
In 1992, a twenty-year-old woman can only have "true blue" dreams of days gone past. Maybe just like Mets fans and Dodgers fans do, too. 
It's time for Northwestern fans to prepare for a drubbing on Saturday. When Notre Dame football players take the field, it won't be the Irish fans on their knees praying for mercy. 
But be sure, DuBose or shine, Wildcat fans will cheer their team on. 
Did anyone go out on Wednesday to meet sand-scorchers Karch Kiraly and Steve Timmons? Kiraly perfected his spike on the beaches of Santa Barbara, California. At least volleyball is the one California sport that has conquered the sands as being number one. 
Did any one else notice that Wayne Gretsky is no longer the highest-paid National Hockey League player? It was announced that Eric Lindros will make $3.5 million a year. 
It seems odd that someone who has never played a game in the NHL will make more than the Great One. Be certain that Kings' owner Bruce McNall will make sure that Gretsky is the highest-paid player. 
1' 15

'=iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 15-6' 15--6.
• Brown was especially happy with Notre 
INSIDE SPORTS Dame's performance in the areas she 1iB8ileS!Wi:ci!f1tie:S\falp()---~~ targeted for improvement. 
II soccer "We set three primary goals for the see page 1 match," Brown explained. "We wanted to execute well, play with more emotion, and play a Jot of people. We did an excellent job, and that was a big step . ,,,,,,,,,, :;,:,,;;,;;A forward. I was very pleased." Notre Dame was off to the races when senior Alycia Turner served five straight points to put the Irish ahead 6-1 in the first game. Some rare Irish errors 
The Observer I Marguerite Schropp 
Karen Lorton shows her serving technique. 
Notre Dame soccer to kick off seasons 
Men open with Women travel tough games to N.C. State 
By JASON KELLY By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's 
It's time to get serious. 
soccer team will look to youth to 
The only competition the 
gain an advantage as they travel
Notre Dame men's soccer team 
to face fifth-ranked N.C. State
has faced so far this season was 
Saturday.

last weekend's 2-0 exhibition 
Five freshmen and four
loss to No. 5 Indiana. 
sophomores cracked the starting
This weekend, the Irish begin 
eleven, due to injuries and
the regular season in Bloomington at the Adidas-Met graduation losses, leaving coach Life Classic with games against Chris Petrucelli with the No. 4 UCLA and No. 13 Duke, youngest starting lineup in his two of their toughest tests of the five year reign as coach. season. The loss of tri-captainsIn tomorrow's opener, the host 
Michelle Lodyga, Margaret Jarc 
Hoosiers take on Duke, followed 
and Denise Chabot is the biggest
by the Notre Dame and UClA 
loss, along with standout
The Bruin's lineup includes 
midfielder Stephanie Porter. 

Olympians Zak Ibsen at forward, 
Initially it would appear that
Joe-Max Moore at midfield and 
playing so many freshmen
Brad Friedel at goalkeeper. Also 
places the Irish at a disadvan­
returning are defensemen Tayt Ianni, Dan Beaney and Ty Miller tage, but Petrucelli feels that it from last year's NCAA could work to his team's favor. quarterfinal team. "I think we're in a good situa­"It will be tough to play a team tion with freshmen." Petrucelli with so much experience right said after his team's final prac­off the bat," Irish coach Mike tice before leavin·g for N.C. State. 
Berticelli said. "It's not just the 
"They (N.C. State) will not know 
Olympic players. The rest of 
what to expect, and the
their team is really strong. They 
freshmen will not be intim­
will test us to the full range of 
idated." 
our abilities." 

Duke, Notre Dame's Sunday night opponent, is no slouch ei­ther. Although the Blue Devils managed only a 10-9 record in 1991, they return eight starters, 
with a group of promising Sophomore Kevin Adkisson, shown here against Indiana, will help see MEN/page 17 lead the Irish against UCLA and Duke at the Golden Boot Claassic. see WOMEN/page 17 
Women's volleyball romps New Orleans 
By DAN PIER 
Sports Writer 

Every coach dreams of having her strategy come to life in the arena exactly as it looks on paper. Notre Dame volleyball coach Debbie Brown must have felt like she was dreaming last night as her team romped past New Orleans 
Lorton leads Belles volleyball team 
By KILEY COBLE 
Sports Writer 

Beverly Hills maybe home for those famous twins Brenda and Brandon Walsh, but South Bend has its own dynamic duo in Karen and Kevin Lorton. Saint Mary's senior volleyball player Karen Lorton grew up in South Bend, excelling in her sport partly due to the fact that her brother helped sharpen her skills in endless games of beach volleyball. 
There are six children in the Lorton family and Kevin is the most athletic, according to Karen. Last season. however. Karen finished fourth in the nation in blocking, fourth in Division III hitting and second in blocking. 
This is Lorton's fourth year with the Belles, and she has been extremely pleased with the amount of competition in Division III play. "The teams are outstanding," she said. "We play at a 
Petrucelli is worried about the explosive Wolfpack offense. With seven of their top eight goal scorers returning from last 
The Observer 1Jake Peters season, N.C. State should pose a 
helped New Orleans climb back within 10-6, but two kills by Jessica Fiebelkorn, one by Christy Peters, and an ace by Turner put the game away. 
Game two looked like a Harlem Glo­betrotter-style exhibition for the Irish, with the helpless Buc-kettes playing the part of the Washington Generals. Notre Dame pounded out 14 kills by 5 different players and added two service aces. New Orleans mustered just one kill. 
"We were executing the game very well," said Brown. "We had good communication among the players, along with good skills execution. It was fun to watch." 
In game three, Brown reached her goal of doling out playing time to more players. The new lineup took some time to get acclimated, falling behind 4-0. Things quickly turned around, however, thanks to Nicole Coates' two aces and Andrea Armento's six straight service high volleyball level." 
Lorton and fellow senior Laura Panowicz are co-captains of the team this year, and both are optimistic about the season. The Belles have added four freshmen and a junior who spent last year in Rome. After a 8-15 record last year, the captains are anxious to improve on what they called a "growing year." 
Saint Mary's has a difficult schedule this year, according to head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. A new tournament is scheduled at Baldwin-Wallace College on September 18 and 19, and the Belles will face nationally ranked Kalamazoo College and Illinois Benedictine College in October. 
According to Schroeder-Biek, Lorton is the one to lead Saint Mary's through their challenging schedule. "She is a good leader," she said. "She's one of the best in the nation and a real hard worker." 
see SMC/page18 
points. 
Throughout the match, Notre Dame's defense bottled up the Buc-kettes' dangerous weapon, outside hitter Javonne Brooks. She tallied just five kills for the match. 
Considering the tough competition coming up in this weekend's Big Four Classic, Brown was content with last night's rather easy match. 
"I think this was a good one to develop some team unity and get some rhythm," Brown noted. "It should give us some confidence going into this weekend." 
The Big Four Classic will be played in the JACC with a non-tournament format. Notre Dame will battle Louisville tonight at 8:00 and Kentucky tomorrow night at the same time. Other matches will be featured at 5:30 each night. 
The Wildcats are rated 17th in Vol 
see V-Ball/page 17 











