
I 8 .~ ] 1 Q.;, .l 
eObserver 
Samt Mary's Colleg~

'·.:Cl\.:IC,f· i:NNIAL 

NOTRE DAME •I NOlANA

___... -­
WEDNESDAY , JANUARY 15, 1992
VOL. XXIV NO. 73 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
--Armed local man arrested outside of Malloy's office 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL charged with criminal In response to this arrest, News Writer trespassing, disorderly conduct, Zitkus ftled suit in Federal Dis­resisting arrest and criminal trict Court charging Notre 
A South Bend resident armed recklessness. Dame with violating his civil with a handgun and hunting Hurley said Malloy was in his rights. During last Wednesday's knife was arrested last office with the door closed incident, Zitkus said that he Wednesday outside the office of when the scuffie occurred and was on campus in order to University President Father was never confronted by the serve papers advising the Uni­Edward Malloy. suspect. versity of his lawsuit. 
Gerald Zitkus, 40, of 22735 Zitkus had been cited twice Carol Kaesebier, associate Madison Road was arrested by previously for trespassing on general counsel for the Univer­Notre Dame security officers the Notre Dame campus. sity, said legal papers concern­who responded to complaints On Jan. 26, 1991, Zitkus was ing the lawsuit were found on 
that a suspicious looking person discovered in the kitchen of the Zitkus' person after his arrest. was roaming the third floor of Morris Inn. After being ques­She said the University would the Administration Building, tioned by security, Zitkus was respond to Zitkus' accusations according to Chuck Hurley, ordered to leave the campus in court. assistant director of security. and told that he would be ar­
Zitkus' handgun was revealed rested for trespassing if he ever Zitkus is currently undergoing to the investigating officers returned. psychiatric evaluation at St. The Observer/John Rock when the suspect reached into Despite this warning, Zitkus Joseph's Medical Center. A his pocket to produce identifi­came back to campus on April spokesperson for the St. Joseph
No artificial turf here 
cation, Hurley said. After a brief 1, 1991. He was arrested by se­County prosecutor's office said 
(left to right) Cavanaugh freshmen Tom Lillig and Matt Mueller make struggle, Zitkus was handcuffed curity after he was seen acting Zitkus would not be formallythe most of their free time before classes begin with an intense and taken into custody. He was suspiciously outside the Riley indicted until the evaluation is game of winter-time football Tuesday. Hall of Art and Design. completed. 
Soviet coup leaders face formal conspiracy charges 
MOSCOW (AP) -Prosecutors power from an ailing Mikhail Communist Party and other in­Tass were: Supreme Soviet Gorbachev could become a wit­charged 12 former high Soviet Gorbachev, have already chal­stitutions. Chairman Anatoly Lukyanov; ness in the case, but there was officials Tuesday with conspir­lenged the fairness of the pro­Among the former Soviet of­Oleg Shenin, a Politburo mem­no evidence to accuse him of ing to seize power in the failed ceedings. Through their ficials charged were KGB chief ber; army commander Valentin coup involvement. coup that quickened the demise lawyers, they have said senior Vladimir Kryuchkov; Prime Varennikov; KGB guard chief "There is not a hint in his of the Soviet Union, which they politicians and the media have Minister Valentin Pavlov; De­Yuri Plekhanov; and Vyacheslav conduct of Gorbachev's support thought they were saving. distorted the facts against them. fense Minister Dimitri Yazov; Generalov, who was of the anti-constitutional ambi­
The hard-line officials -in­Prosecutors earlier decided Vice President Gennady Plekhanov's deputy. tions of the plotters," Lisov said, cluding the one-time prime not to charge the suspects with Yanayev; Security Council offi­Two other officials under in­although he added that the minister, defense minister and "high treason." The prosecutors cial Oleg Baklanov; Alexander vestigation were not named in plotters may have believed that KGB chief-could face 10 to 15 reasoned that the state they Tizyakov, head of the state en­the formal charges because Gorbachev would support them years in prison or a firing squad allegedly tried to betray -the terprise association; and Vasily they have been transferred to because of his "long relations" for their part in the August Soviet Union -has ceased to Starodubtsev, Peasants Union hospitals for health reasons. with them. coup, officials said. exist anyway. leader. All helped found the They were Gen. Viktor Grushko Lisov hinted that Gorbachev 
No date has been set for the The charges culminate a four­eight-member emergency and Valery Boldin, Gorbachev's might fall suspect in other on­trial that promises to be one of month inquiry in which committee. former chief of staff. going investigations concerning the most spectacular court thousands of people were inter­The eighth co-founder of the Yevgeny Usov, deputy prose­Communist Party finances and cases in modern Russian his­viewed and 125 volumes of evi­committee, former Soviet Inte­cutor general of the Russian KGB activities. "I will not tory. dence compiled, the Tass news rior Minister Boris Pugo, killed Federation, headed the investi­comment upon Gorbachev's 
The suspects, six of whom agency said. In the process, himself when the coup fell gation. stands in these cases now," he formed an emergency commit­prosecutors scrutinized the through. He was quoted Tuesday in the 
see COUP I page 5
tee that claimed to have taken KGB, the armed forces, and Other suspects identified by newspaper Izvestia as saying 
NO student recuperating from bout with meningitis 
By MONICA YANT tern. News Editor He will take a reduced class load this semester to further his 
A Notre Dame student af­recovery. flicted with bacterial meningitis Macariola-Coad said he was before final exams has recu­grateful for the support from perated from the infection and administrators, faculty and ; . progressing steadily toward students at Notre Dame during complete recovery. · his illness. "The Notre Dame 
Justin Macariola-Coad, a family truly exists." freshman resident of Alumni University health officials and Hall, was admitted to Saint the Office of Student Affairs is­Joseph Medical Center Dec. 16 sued bulletins to alert students with bacterial meningitis who might have become in­spurred by a sinus infection fected as a result of close con­that gave the bacteria tact with Macariola-Coad. All Haemophilus influenza "a on-campus students were noti­pathway to the brain," he said. fied by their hall rectors of the 
Macariola-Coad was hospital­situation and information was ized in South Bend until posted in key buildings and lo­Christmas, but was unable to fly cations around campus to alert home to Napa, Calif., according off-campus students. to doctors' orders. He spent the Students at Saint Mary's Col­remainder of his vacation in lege and Holy Cross College Indiana and took a train to were also notified of Macariola­Virginia. Coad's infection. 
"I'm doing better now, but am Although an antibiotic was still not quite 100 percent," he available for students who had 
The Observer/Garr Schwartz 

said yesterday. The meningitis been in close contact with him, 

Cheerios joke put to rest 
is cleared up, but Macariola­University Physician Dr. James 
Notre Dame mascot Dan Wagner is hoisted into the air by Notre Dame football player Justin Hall after
Coad still has a sinus condition Moriarity said no students were 
the Irish cream the Florida Gators at the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans New Year's Day.
and a weakened immune sys-infected. 


page2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Disney comes up with a fairy 
tale for the 90s 
As I sat through my second viewing of Walt Disney's latest creation 
Beauty and the Beast, I 
was impressed by what 
the "new" Walt Disney 
had to offer. 
Gone are the days when Lisa Eaton movie-goers had to sit Managing through Snow White's ___E_d_it_o_r__ 
heart-rending version of "Some Day My Prince Will Come." No longer will Sleeping Beauty have to sleep until her true love comes to rescue her from the spell placed upon her by the evil witch. Now, good ole' Uncle Walt has given us Belle, the feminist heroine of the 90s. 

Unlike her beautiful, but not too brilliant predecessors, Belle has the intellect and wit to go along with her looks. Let's face it, spell or no spell, no rocket scientist would prick her finger on a spinning wheel and then fall peacefully into a coma until Prince Charming comes to break the spell. 
Cinderella, Snow White and Sleeping Beauty most definitely cornered the market on the kind, caring, sweet and docile personalities, but the only books that any of them ever read are cookbooks. It is about time that Disney created a female character who is smart, free-thinking and independent. 
Belle wants more for herself than what the little French town has to offer her. In a Sound of Music-esque scene Belle runs around on the hills singing about the adventures and new experiences awaiting her away from "this provincial life." However, at no time during the entire movie does she even mention the idea of Prince Charming coming to sweep her away to a new life. Her firm rejection of Gaston shows just how much of her own person Belle really is. 
Belle is a confident, capable and gutsy woman. She is the type of woman young children need to see in Disney cartoons. There is absolutely no reason why fairy tales need the stereotypical female character and the handsome prince who saves her. Belle shows the young audience that women can be intelligent without compromising their femininity. The Beast, likewise, also proves that the prince does not always have to be drop dead gorgeous to be charming. 
Snow White, Cinderella and Sleeping Beauty all have a place in romantic cartoon history, but the era of "Prince Charming rescues beautiful girl from her life of drudgery" fairy tales has past. 
Little girls and boys live in a world where it is plain to see that the fairy tale is not always what it is made up to be. The high number of single parent households headed by women gives a strong message to children that, for whatever reasons, it is getting harder and harder to live happily ever after with Prince Charming. 
Beauty and the Beast is the ideal movie for children growing up in the 90s because it sends the message that who a person is on the inside is as important as who they are on the outside. Women don't have to wait for 


WORLD Government challenged by scandal 
•tORVO The arrest of a senior political ally sent Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa's troubled administration reeling today, immediately raising suggestions he may be forced to step down. But the latest in a series of Japanese political and financial scandals may soon be overshadowed: Sources close to the governing Liberal Democrats say new allegations are linking senior politicians to a mob-tainted company. Former Cabinet minister Fumio Abe, 69, was arrested Monday in con­nection with bribery allegations. Japanese media reports allege he took bribes worth about $634,000 and used his influence as director-general of the Hokkaido Development Agency to help steel-frame maker Kyowa Corp. win lucrative construction contracts. Kyowa is now bankrupt and facing fraud charges. 
leave U.S. schools as "museums to the failed experiments of the past." Bush urged business leaders, educators and others attending a U.S. Chamber of Commerce conference on school reforms to rally behind his proposal, which includes $1 million in seed money to create an experimental school in each congressional district. Bush also wants to streamline federal regulations, support parental choice of both public and private schools, and create a new, voluntary system of national examinations. "Not everyone's ready for the future," Bush said_ "The Senate regrettably remains riveted on the past. ... " the president added. "We need schools for the 21st century, not museums to the failed experiments of the past." 


INDIANA 
Fellowship offered to graduates 
•Indianapolis, lnd.-Applications are now being accepted for the 1992-93 Governor's Fellowship Program, which runs from July 1 to June 30. The fellowship is open to four-year college or university graduates who received their degree in 1991 and seniors who will receive their degree in the spring of 1992. Preference will be given to Indiana residents. The program is a 12-month training experience in state government in which 10 men and women will be assigned to various state agencies, including the Governor's office. Fellows also participate in seminars and field trips with policy-makers. Applications can be obtained by writing: The Governor's Fellowship Program, Governor's Office, Statehouse, Room 206, Indianapolis, IN, 46204. Applications must be postmarked by March 13. 

CAMPUS 

Prize established for Writing Program 
•Notre Dame, lnd.-The University of Notre Dame's Freshman Writing Program has established an annual $100 prize for outstanding writing. The prize will be awarded for the first time at the freshman honors convocation Feb. 13. Winners of the McPartlin Prize, made possible by a gift from the Stephen McPartlin family of Wildwood, Ill., will be selected from a field of nominations by teachers of freshman writing. "These essays will represent what we hope are the very best among freshman writing efforts of the fall semester," said Edward Kline, director. The winning essay will possibly appear in a campus publication during this semester, he added. 
Man exDoses himself to females 
•Notre Dame, lnd.-1\vo females reported that a white man exposed himself on Saint Mary's Road near the entrance to the cemetery, according to Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Notre Dame Security. The man, described as a white male in his early-to-mid 20s, had been wearing a dark blue sweatsuit. The description matches that of a male involved in a similar incident on Dec. 7. Hurley requests that anyone with information about the incident contact Security. 
Firearm confiscated on Juniper Road 
•Notre Dame, lnd.-A member of ND Security arrested an 18-year-old man on Juniper Road for possession of a firearm on Jan_ 9 at 12:50 p.m. The officer, responding to a St. Joseph's County Police report of a man brandishing a firearm at Clay High School, stopped the vehicle and ordered the man out of the car. He discovered a semi­automatic firearm and a magazine in the car. 
Prince Charming because they are smart enough to make it on their own. 

OF INTEREST 
The views are those of the author and not 
•seniors are reminded that sign-ups at Career and •Residence Assistant applications for the 1992-93
necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Placement Services for the first week of interviews end academic year are available until Friday in the Office of today. The first weekly bulletin of the Spring semester is Student Affairs, 315 Administration Building. 
Today's Staff 
Production News Cris Ortiz Ann-Marie Hartman Kristin Lynch Paul Pearson Sports Graphics Dave McMahon Brendan Regan Accent Business Paige Smoron Rich Riley Lab Tech. Systems 
R. Garr Schwartz Mike Murphy 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
now available in the office. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/January 14 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
A
320,935,450 231.57 v 3.12 S&P COMPOSITE 420.44 .. 6.15 OOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,246.20 .. 60.67 
PRECIOUS METALS 

GOLD'f $.10 to $369.30/oz. 
SILVER'f 1¢ to $4_011/oz. 

ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1969: A fire on the nuclear aircraft carrier USS Enterprise, then the world's largest warship, killed 13 sailors. 

• 
In 1976: The NCAA overwhelmingly defeated a pair of proposals that would have divided the money from college football games among all members of the association. 

• 
Five years ago: Federal investigators said that two Conrail crewmen on the train that sped into the path of an Amtrak passenger train had marijuana in their systems at the time of the crash. 


~----------~------------------------~---------------------------, 
Wednesday, January 15, 1992 The Observer 
Two ND students die during break 
By DAVID KINNEY Britton, 43, son of Mr. and He was studying at Notre Associate News Editor Mrs. Roy Britton, died as a re­Dame in the MSA program. "His sult of complications from whole heart was into getting a 
Notre Dame students Ernesto surgery after a battle with degree," she said. "He enjoyed Alvarado of Panama City, cancer. his work. That was his whole Panama, and David Britton of life." South Bend, Ind., died over Britton graduated from Indi­"He enjoyed so many things," Christmas break. ana University at Bloomington Mrs. Britton said. "He wanted 
Alvarado, 26, died December with a bachelor of arts degree to do a lot of things and he 29, 1991, in Panama City after and was a consultant with never got a chance to do the being shot when a friend's gun Workforce Development Ser­things he wanted to do." accidentally misfired. He had vices of Northern Indiana, been studying in the Masters of which concentrates of training A Memorial Mass for Britton Science in Administration (MSA) people for jobs, according to will be held Thursday at 5:15 program. Mrs. Britton. p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 


1992-93 ASSISTANT RECTOR APPLICATIONS UNDERGRADUATE RFSIDENCE HALLS ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
OFFICE OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 315 ADMINISTRATION BUILDING 
Through Friday, January 31, 1992 

% 


12 Month Certificate of Deposit 
Interest Paid at Maturity • $2,000 Minimum Deposit 
6.25% 
12 month IRA Certificate of Deposit Interest paid at maturity • $500 minimum deposit 
6.00% 
IRA Savings • Interest paid monthly • $100 minimum deposit 
Annual interest rates listed above are subject to change without notice. Substantial penalty for early withdrawal. Call today to see how you may qualify for credit union membership. 
0 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
(219) 239-6611 
NCUA 
N<ri!QIIClC"dl!IJDJIIIIAd.mliWII011oll 
a !IS Go~rnm•D1Aveocr

Independent from the University of Notre Dame 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey
Fired up 

Notre Dame fans cheer in New Orleans as they watch the Irish play one of their best games of the season at the Sugar Bowl. 
NO graduate wins medal for actions during Gulf War 
Special to The Observer awarded by the Engineer Regiment. 
A 1985 University of Notre The medal was first struck in Dame alumna, Capt. Jo Anne 1779 to honor French engineerPearl, this year became the first Francois Louis Tesseidre de 
woman to receive the coveted Fleury, who in 1777 had volun­de Fleury medal from the U.S. teered to serve with the Ameri­Army Engineer Regiment. can army in its fight for inde­
Pearl, stationed at Fort pendence from Britain. Rucker, Ala., and seven others from the 46th Engineer Battal­Appointed a captain of engi­ion were honored for their civil neers, de Fleury was wounded engineering roles in Operation at the battles of Fort Millin and Desert Storm. Brandywine. He won the 
accolades of Congress for 
The de Fleury medal was the courage he displayed in the first to be ordered struck by the 1779 battle at Stony Point, N.Y. Continental Congress; its first when he scaled the wall of a 
recipient was Gen. George British fort, rushed to the flag­Washington. To date fewer than pole and cut the British colors 160 of the medals have been from their staff. 

...................................... 
. . . " ................................ . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
..................................... 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
..................................... 

:::::::::INTERESTED:IN::::::: 
:::::BEING :A LECTOR AT:::: 
::::::: :T·:H·:E·:J:·p:·w·.:M··A:·s··s··;.,:::::::
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •....... 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
· · · · · · · · · ·SIGN ·up FOR· · ... ·.. .
. . . . . . . . . . -. . . ....... . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 
: : : : :AUDITIONS :IN: RM: 308 : : : 
··········· ··FoRr··Ne··········
···········La · ·U· ·········· 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........ . 
::::: o:A: iN :tt.~e:sttJO:ENi:::: 
..................................... 
: ::: : :ACTIVITIES: OFFICE::::: 
0 0 0 o 0 0 0 0 o 0 0 0 0 0 I 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 I 0 0 0 0 0 I 0 0 0 0 0 
........... av·FRIDAY........... . 
: : : : : : : : : : : .. : . : ... : . : : . : . ; : : : : : : : : : : 


··········· .NUARY··7··········
::::::::: :JA. ·.. ·. :1: ~:::::: ::: 
o o o o o o I 0 0 0 o o 0 0 0 0 0 o 0 0 o 0 0 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
..................................... 
..................................... 
..................................... 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 

Salt makes sidewalks safe 
Notre Dame crew member Rick Milliken does his best to make sidewalk conditions safer for Notre Dame pedestrians after the first real snowstorm hit South Bend Monday night. 
Special to The Observer 
The parents of a 1969 Uni­versity of Notre Dame graduate have established a $500,000 endowed scholarship at the University in memory of their late son. 
The Douglas G. Simon Family Scholarship Fund, created by William and Alice Simon of Newport Beach, Calif .. provides assistance to deserving under­graduates in need of financial aid. 
"In 1990, the board of trustees made increased schol­arship support the University's top fund-raising priority," said Joseph Russo, director of fi­nancial aid at Notre Dame. "The Simon scholarship fund provides a major new source of funding in keeping with the trustees' goal, and it is much appreciated." 
In the fund's first year, six Douglas G. Simon Scholars are receiving financial assistance, Russo said. 
Doug Simon received his bachelor's degree in English from Notre Dame, then earned a law degree from the Univer­sity of Southern California in 1972. 
After a year of post-graduate work at Oxford University, Si­mon joined the Los Angeles law firm of Simon and Sheridan as a defense attorney. In 1978-79, he took a leave to serve as the deputy staff director for the Defense Department's audit, investigation and inspection task force. He returned to Si­mon and Sheridan in 1980 and continued practicing law until 
Hemphill will replace Veith in Human Resources post 
Special to The Observer 
Douglass Hemphill, assistant to the provost and executive di­rector of the Notre Dame Sesquicentennial, has been ap­pointed employment manager for the University's Department of Human Resources. 
Hemphill will replace Sharon Veith, who will become the hu­man resource representative for the University libraries. 
Hemphill graduated from Bucknell University and holds a master's degree in government and international studies from N.Jllre Dame. 
Hemphill had completed 25 years of active military service when he retired as lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Army last August. For the last five of these, he was chair of the Uni­versity's department of military science. 
As employment manager, he will oversee staff recruiting, af­firmative action, temporary and summer employment, and the human resources employment staff. In addition, he will continue to direct Sesquicen­tennial activities until April 1992. 
Need a liHie extra cash far Spring Break? 
The Observer 
11 cllftlldY IIDdna for circulation drivers. Drivers •eneeded Monday through friday from 1 0 a.m.-12:30 p.m. 111e only requirement Is adrlver•s Dcense. nInterested contact GD at 239·5303. 
Wednesday, January 15, 1992 
MBA students travel to Chicago job fair 
By PETER LOFTUS News Writer 

The sluggish economy has not kept Notre Dame's Master of Business Administration (MBA) students from meeting with prospective employers, as 37 of them are scheduled to partici­pate Thursday in a job fair in Chicago. 
"If they can't come to us, we'll go to them," said Joyce Manthay, ND director of MBA career development. "This is an efficient way for recruiters to look at students at low cost and low risk. And, it's another way to get our students in front of recruiters. It's a win-win sit­uation." 
Thirty-seven ND MBA stu­dents are scheduled to attend the "MBA Consortium at Chicago." This is the first time ND has participated in such a collective venture, where 14 
$ 65 
only per week Monday-Saturday! 
Chicago Tribune provides Pulitzer Prize winning journalism, full­color photography, and in­depth regional, national and world news, and features: 
Great college and 
Top coverage 
of popular music, movies, art and trends. 
Complete business and financial reporting to keep you on top of career planning. 
other schools and 36 companies will be represented. 
Companies to be represented at the consortium include Arthur Andersen, Deloitte & Touche, Eli Lilly & Company, Ernst & Young, Ford Motor Co., General Motors Corp., NCR Corp., RJ Reynolds, and Rock­well International. 
Company representatives will be interviewing for positions in human resources, finance, ac­counting, and several other fields. 
The companies will conduct 30-minute job interviews from 
8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the Sofitel Airport Hotel. Students are responsible for transportation and housing costs. 
Other schools sending stu­dents to the consortium include Case Western Reserve, Penn State, Ohio State, University of Georgia, and the University of Washington. 
Get the best price! Save 45% off newsstand prices. "Daily" and "Daily and Sunday" subscriptions are available. Prices range from $1.65 to only $2.50 per week for convenient delivery outside the Chicago Tribune 8-county primary market area. Credit cards accepted. Mail subscriptions will be offered at comparable savings in areas where home delivery is not available. 

Call TOLL-FREE: 1·800-TRIBUNE 
Ask for Operator 34 
<fhira_go [ribune 
The Observer

Wednesday, January 15, 1992 
ND receives $515,695 in grants 
Special to The Observer •$82,741 from Environmental conductors. 
Bioscience Corp. for research •$10,000 from the Exxon Ed­
The University of Notre Dame by Charles Kulpa Jr., professor ucation Foundation for studies received $515,695 in grants of biological sciences, on mi­of supercritical materials by during November for the sup­crobial desulfurization of Joan Brennecke, assistant pro­port of research and various petroleum distillates. fessor of chemical engineering. programs. Research funds to­•$78,256 from the National •$5,000 from BP Research for taled $511,945, including: Science Foundation for re­supercritical fluids research by 
search by Hsueh-Chia Chang, Joan Brennecke, assistant 
•$115,253 
from the U.S. Navy chairman and professor of professor of chemical engineer­for research by David Tannor, chemical engineering, on non­ing. assistant professor of chemistry linear dynamics and control of and biochemistry, on the control complex patterns. •$2,500 from the Indiana of photochemical reactions. •$25,000 from DSM Research Academy of Science for gradu­

•$91,195 
from the U.S. Navy for research by Joan Bren­ate student research adminis­for research by Steven Skaar, necke, assistant professor of tered by Vicki Martin, associate associate professor of chemical engineering, on poly­professor of biological sciences. aerospace and mechanical mer powders from the expan­engineering, on camera-based sion of supercritical fluid solu­Awards for instructional manufacturing control. tions. programs totaled $3,750 from 

•$87,000 
from the U.S. Navy •$15,000 from the U.S. Navy the Food and Drug Law Insti­for research by Albin Szewczyk, for research by Jacek K. Fur­tute for development of a food professor of aerospace and dyna, Marquez professor of and drug law course, adminis­mechanical engineering, on physics, on pseudomorphic tered by William McLean, asso­bluff body wake flows. growth and ordering of semi-ciate dean and professor of law. 



THE GULF WAR-ONE YEAR LATBl 
aariel of evantato l'llll8llllllr •d analyze 1111 Parlllll Gul conllct 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 18,1991 
12:00 NOON -prayer and rellectlon at the War Memorial 
7:00 pm -Forum and Discussion In the Ubrary Audnorlum 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 17,1991 
5:15 pm -Mass lor the Dead at Sacred Heart Church 
Edul:lllonal videos wm ba shown throughout both days at the center for SOcial concerns 
The Observer/John Rock 
Happy days are here again 
Notre Dame senior Stephen Curley of Dillon Hall fails to greet Jeanette Lagowski with a smile as she registers him for classes on Tuesday for the Spring 1992 semester. 
Coup 
continued from page 1
The 

said. Now that the formal charges
MCATis· are filed, the suspects and their lawyers are allowed an unspecified amount of time to examine the material and produce new evidence in their 
When? 

JSTANI.EY llKAPlAN 
T.alcE Kaplan OrT.akcbr<lwu:s 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
defense. 

Defense lawyers reached by The Associated Press protested that they still have not seen the charges and said it would take a long time for the case to come to trial due to the sheer volume of evidence. 
•
! NoTR{~;~:::~~~~:oRE "STICK WITH THE ONE YOU KNOW"! 
• OPEN MONDAY-SATURDAY 9-5 ._. • 
• ~-1 • 
t ~~~ J~~;F' i 
,~--­

i ----i
• SCOTCH SCOTCH POST-IT • WALLSAVER MOUNTING NOTES • POSTER TAPE SQUARES 3-PACK • 
• 1.87 .72 .99 • 
• *..SPECIAL HOURS..:WEDS 1/15& THURS 1/16 9-7* • 
Viewpoint 
Page6 Wednesday, January 15, 1992 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill 
a..naglng Editor Usa Eaton 

News Editor •••••••••••••.•••••••••Monica Yant VIewpoint Editor ••••••••••••••••••Joe Moody Sports Editor ........•..••.. David Dieteman Accent Edltor •...••..•.•..••••••.John O'Brien Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett 
I . 
All members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community may submit columns, letters to the editor, or cartoons to the Viewpoint de­partment of The Observer. While individuals not associ­ated with Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community may submit columns, letters to the editor, and cartoons, the View­point department gives priority to those individuals who are di­rectly associated with the community. 
II . All columns, letters to the editor, and cartoons sub­mitted to the Viewpoint de­partment become the property of The Observer. Any further use of these commentaries without the written consent of The Observer is prohibited. Not-for-profit organizations, those organizations which have a reciprocal-usage agreement and those organizations of which The Observer is a mem­ber may be granted permission to publish commentaries with the permission of the editor-in­chief or the permission of the managing editor and the View­point editor. If the commen­taries have not been printed in The Observer, the Viewpoint editor may return them to the authors.
III. 
The Viewpoint de­partment reserves the right to edit all commentaries submit­ted to the Viewpoint depart­ment. The Observer has no obligation to print commen­taries submitted. Commen­taries will not be printed if they are libelous or unintelligible.
IV. 
All commentaries submitted to The Observer must bear the signature of the author. Under no circum­stances will unsigned commen­taries appear in print in the Viewpoint section of The Ob­server. The author's name ap­pearing in print must be one by 
DOONESBURY 
Business Manager Gilbert Gomez 

Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
which the author is commonly known. 
V. Commentaries submit­ted as letters to the editor may not exceed three in number from the same individual or or­ganization within the same academic semester. There is no limit to the number of times an individual or organization may have their commentaries ap­pear in print as columnists 
All commentaries printed in the Viewpoint section must be verified before being printed. The means of verifi­cation are left to the discretion of the Viewpoint editor. 
VI. 

VII. Only those indi­viduals authorized to speak as representatives for a group will be allowed to use the organiza­tion's name. In such cases, the primary author of the commen­tary is the individual(s}, and the commentary is, in effect, only being co-signed by the or­ganization.
VIII. 

Commentaries which appear in the Viewpoint section may not have been printed previously in other newspapers, magazines or pub­lications. Exceptions to this procedure are those organiza­tions of which The Observer is a member, quotations used for commentaries and "Quote of the day." Syndicated columns also are excluded from this procedure.
IX. 

The opinions ex­pressed in the Viewpoint sec­tion are not necessarily those of the editorial board. House edi­torials appear in the Viewpoint section of The Observer. Regu­lar columnists, those whose columns appear on a regular basis; guest columnists, those whose columns do not appear on a regular basis; letters to the editor; and cartoons are com­mentaries. Such status is de­termined by the Viewpoint 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
house editorials. The House Editorial Guidelines and the In­sta House Guidelines are included in the House Editorial Policy. 
X. Paid employees of The Observer are not permitted to have their commentaries ap­pear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. Regular columnists and members of the Viewpoint staff also are not eligible to have their commen­taries appear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. The status of such individuals is determined by the Viewpoint editor. Those whose commen­taries appear in print in column form may not respond to criticism of that commentary in letters to the editor. 
XI. 

This policy must be approved by the editorial board and can be amended by a ma­jority vote of the editorial board. All procedures not cov­ered in this policy statement are left to the discretion of the Viewpoint editor. The proce­dures outlined in this policy apply only to the Viewpoint de­partment of The Observer. 
XII. 

No commentaries of any kind will be printed in the Viewpoint section concerning and candidate for student government or hall of­fice once the official campaign period has begun for that of­fice. This ban on commentaries is to continue until the election for this position has been completed. The Observer re­serves the right to comment on any candidate or issue it wishes throughout the campaign period. At any time, the editor­in-chief and the Viewpoint editor may suspend this article. 
XIII. 

This policy is available to the public during normal business hours and is prominently displayed at The Observer. 
Dear Editor: 

Recently, the Student Senate voted to grant the campus Right to Life organization $600 to help defray the cost of that organization's trip to Washing­ton D.C. to participate in the 
D.C. March. 

Since this Senate meeting, there have been many misunderstandings. I am writing to clarify the points mentioned in The Observer article (December 10} and the letter by Elsa Scheidler (December 12} concerning this issue. 
First of all, the Right to Life organization and officers did follow correct procedure by first submitting an appeals re­quest to the Club Coordination Council. Normally, a club appeals to the CCC and its contingency fund and then, if unhappy with that decision, has the right to appeal to the Student Senate Budget Committee and finally to Student Senate. 
The Right to Life appeal went to Student Senate as a result of the debate during the Student Body President and Vice Presi­dent elections last spring. Joseph Blanco and David Flo­renzo stated that if approached by the organization for fmancial support, they would take such a request to a Student Senate vote. 
This stance came as a result of the controversy surrounding last year's Student Government funding of Right to Life. 
Once Student Senate does have the fmal say in all matters concerning funding through the 
Student Activity Fee, their deci­
sion is final. 

Therefore, there was no need for the CCC to act on the re­quest. It was taken to Senate not by request of the club, but by the decision of Student Gov­ernment. 
Secondly, the comment made by Matt Bomberger in The Ob­server article was his own opinion and not that of the CCC. The fact that he is a represen­tative on the Council is relevant only in that he is aware of the usual procedures taken in such cases. It was by no means meant to represent the opinion of the council or any of it's other members. It was it meant as a criticism of Right to Life. 
Although I understand how the group and Ms. Scheidler could construe the comment as an attack on their organization, it was not meant as such. 
Through my contact with Right to Life and its officers, I am fully aware that their ap­peal was not an attempt to gain the political support of Student Senate. 
Their purpose was to attempt to make the activities of their organization as affordable as possible for its members and to participate in an activity which is fundamental to supporting the mission of their organiza­tion. 
All individuals concerned were only acting in what they felt were in the best interests of the Right to Life organization and the Student Body. 
Jennifer L. Blanchet Club Coordinator 
Dec.12,1991 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Steal a little and they'll throw you in jail. Steal a lot and they'll make you a king.' 
Bob Dylan (see page 7) 
Heads are empty. submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 

~-------------------~-------, 
Viewpoint
Wednesday, January 15, 1992 Page? 
Hall president reveals HPC corruption, ineffectiveness 
Dear Editor: 
My name is Rob Pritchard, and I am the president of St. Edward's Hall. 
While most of my responsibilities are entirely within my own dorm, I am also part of the Hall Presidents' Council (HPC), an organization made up of all of the hall presidents. 
The purpose of this organiza­tion is to provide an opportunity for campus leaders to gather once a week to discuss issues which are important to all students at Notre Dame. Unfortunately, the group has turned into a thirty minute bul­letin board that accomplishes almost nothing at the students' expense. 
HPC meetings are held on ev­ery Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. Each week, a different dorm hosts the meeting. At the end of the meeting, the host dorm provides the members of HPC (30-40 people) with dinner. 
This year, dorms have pro­vided our group with food from McDonald's, Taco Bell. Subway, KFC, the Great Wall, and the Olive Garden among others. The host dorm is expected to buy the dinner with dorm funds. These dinners come out of fund­raisers and hall tax-money that is intended for in-dorm use. 
These dinners are not cheap ­buying food has cost the host dorm up to $250. The problem is two-fold. First, this money belongs to the dorm. I do not deserve to eat food paid for by someone else's hall tax. Sec­ond, the vast majority of people on campus do not even know this happens. The dorms that host HPC meetings are being robbed by their own presidents for personal use, and the resi­dents don't even know it! 
I have been very concerned with this issue for some time. At an HPC meeting in Decem­ber, I voiced my concern. Only three other presidents came out in support of my position. The rest either remained silent or tried to explain to me why they deserve these dinners. 
The following are actual re­sponses by HPC members. I will attempt to answer all of their arguments: 
• Many presidents have class until 6:30p.m.• and they must miss dinner to attend the meet­ing. 
First, that is not the reason for the dinners. Few, if any, hall presidents have class that late. The dining hall is open for two hours before the meeting even starts. Even if some would miss dinner, the dining hall provides boxed food for people who cannot attend a meal. If this were truly a problem, we could simply move the meeting to 7 
p.m. so they would have time to fully digest their Hungarian Noodle Bake. 
• If we did not have dinners. no one would stay. and people would not meet after the meet­ings to discuss upcoming events. 
The purpose of the meeting is to discuss upcoming events. After the meeting, the presi­dents just socialize and eat good food. If the only motivation that the presidents have for coming to HPC is free food, then the problem isn't HPC, but a lack of dedication on the part of the presidents. 
• We don't tell our residents about everything we spend money on. 
The problem is that every­thing else they spend money on is for the dorm. A penny-by­penny report is not necessary if all the money is spent on the dorm. However, it is a serious violation for a president to take money from the dorm treasury for their own use without telling anyone. I have spoken with many residents in other dorms about this, and each one is upset that their president never told them where their money was going. 
• These meetings are for the dorm, and so the food is indi­rectly for the dorm also. 
We are here for our dorm, and the dorm pays for our food -so the food is for the dorm. The frightening thing is that some people in HPC actually believed this one. The food is in no way for anyone but the members of HPC. If the food is really "for the dorms," then I strongly encourage everyone on campus to join us at our next meeting for some really good food at no cost. We could have a very successful meeting with over $150 of food waiting for us. The argument was that there would not be a meeting if there was no food. This state­ment can be easily translated ­"We are here for the food." 
• We work hard. and we de­serve a little reward once in a while. 
The words "we deserve..." were used that night almost as much as the profanities issued under the breaths of many of these leaders upon being criti­cized for this matter. The fact is, all hall presidents work hard. The job is much more difficult than I imagined it would be. The problem is that we do not deserve free food bought with stolen money. We knew the jobs would be diffi­cult. but we accepted the re­sponsibility. We are volunteers. At most, we deserve the sup­port, help, and encouragement of the other residents. 
• The money we used did not come from hall tax of fund­raisers. but from other sources. 
I never understood this one. Where does the money come from? Do they know something we don't? Where can I get some? It does not really matter where the money comes from, the money is meant for the dorm to use for dorm functions -not for personal satisfaction. 
• It isn't that much money. 

The problem is that each dorm is expected to pay about the same amount for the din­ners. This mans that a small dorm must pay as much as a large. wealthier dorm. For many dorms, this is a lot of money. Either way, it is an un­necessary expense that all dorms are expected to pay. (I am not writing this letter to get out of paying when HPC comes to ST. Ed's. Our dorm probably won't even host a meeting until next September.} Further, what they fail to realize is that if each dorm spent $150 on food for HPC over $3,000 will be spent over the course of one year. That is a lot of wasted money. 
• It's just like giving money to a local charity. 
Great idea! Why don't we take the money that feeds us once a week and give it to charity! Anyone who even thinks that the two are even remotely related should be forced to work in a homeless shelter for four years. 
My original suggestion was that the dorms should not be expected to pay for dinner when they host a meeting of HPC. This way, each president could discuss the expense with their hall council. 
However, it is now clear that this would not change anything. Most presidents would feel pressured into having dinner, as many HPC members would be offended by a dorm not re­turning the favor of free food once a week. 

It would be very easy for any president to inform a hall council that they will be spend­ing money for HPC in such a way as to not upset anyone. In fact, several hall presidents discussed this issue at their council meetings that week, and most discussions went some­thing like this: "We are hosting HPC next semester, and the host dorm is supposed to pay for a small dinner for the other presidents. All the other dorms do it, so we should do it, too. It won't be that much money, so is that O.K.?" 
This method of discussing the issue does not accomplish any­thing, as most residents were misled into believing that the dinners are both expected and cheap. 
Therefore, the only solution is to end HPC dinners entirely. We obviously don't need them, and the money could be better allocated to a charity or to the dorm itself. 
I did not realize the true ex­tent of hall presidents stealing money for personal use until the meeting last week. While there, I discovered that the dorm's don't only pay for HPC meeting food, but that some were taking additional funds. HPC members were able to pur­chase HPC rugby shirts for about $30 (Wear it with pride}. 
I declined the offer, but rumor has it that some presidents bought the shirts with -you guessed it -dorm money. HPC also has frequent "social gath­erings" for its members. We were all expected to contribute ten dollars at the beginning of the semester to pay for re­freshments. Recently, at least one president paid his "activities fee" with a check from the dorm's account. Also, at the end of the year, HPC has a banquet at Tippecanoe. Guess who pays for that? Buying food every week is bad enough. but the above examples are nothing short of robbery. This is a disgraceful abuse of power, and must be stopped immediately. 
I would not be so angry at the blatant abuse of power in HPC if the organization itself weren't so useless. At first, I believed that this group would be good as a forum for discussing important campus issues, organizing interhall events, and planning campus programs to help all undergraduates. 
Unfortunately, the group has done nothing but provide an opportunity to pass out posters, ask for money, socialize, and eat dinner. The typical HPC meeting goes something like this: 
Opening Prayer (we usually pray for the food) and roll call begin the meeting. A represen­tative from Saint Mary's then tells us what is going on across the street. The Student Senate representative then tells us what they are doing, and we hear from Dave Florenzo (student body vice-president}. Joe Cassidy, from Student Ac­tivities, tells us what we can and cannot do at hall events. 
Speakers come, representing many worthy causes, and ask us to hang up posters or give them money. Next, someone who runs HPC tells us to pay our "activity fee" (happy hours and party fee), go to the $25 HPC formal, or get ready for the big HPC party that week. 
Finally, we eat. 

Last week (December 3), the entire meeting took ten minutes -not a bad day for all that food. Usually, the meetings are finished in thirty minutes or less. Most everything could be handled by way of notices in the dorm mailbox in the Student Government office. My work with HPC has given me nothing more than valuable note-taking experience. 
When an actual issue comes up for discussion, HPC has done nothing. When we debated the dividing of D-2 parking lot in April, we spent most of the time deciding the proper parliamentary procedure when a discussion reaches ten min­utes in length (We never did de­cide, but at least we had a dis­cussion that lasted ten minutes}. 
When WVFI wanted us to pass a resolution of support for their switch to FM, we debated for about ten minutes -not about WVFI, but about if we should discuss it that week or the week after. Finally, when we (for some reason) tabled the resolution tmtil the next week, we never discussed the actual resolution -we passed it on unanimous consent. 
When Weekend Wheels needed more money, we voted to allocate dorm funds for this cause because the University won't help. Then we found that ridership was low (Oh, well, at least we tried something}. 
When the most important is­sue of the year so far arose (Remember the Safe Haven?}, the head of HPC gave us the safe haven resolution and told us to do with it what we wanted. Period. 
There was never any discus­sion on what was the most im­portant dorm/campus issue of the year. As a result, each dorm was required to deal with the issue alone, and nothing was accomplished beyond fragmented support and a dozen reworded resolutions. 
When the Observer criticized HPC for not dealing with the Safe Haven issue, one member publicly responded to the charge in the same paper. When one hall president criti­cized HPC in the Scholastic for not dealing with the problem, he was instructed never again to publicly criticize HPC. 
Hypocrisy? I believe the First Amendment says something about us being allowed to pub­licly discuss both sides of an is­sue. 
The other "big" issue at HPC this year was the "THE SHIRT" fund-raiser for the Indiana game. Last year, AnTostal thought of, planned, and pro­ceeded to succeed with one of the biggest fund-raisers for any campus group ("THE SHIRT 1990"). 
Last year, all the halls had to do was sell the shirts, earning two dollars for every shirt ($2 also went to AnTostal). In April, HPC began to plan "THE SHIRT 1991" without telling AnTostal about is plans. They argued that while AnTostal needs the dorm president to succeed with the fund-raiser, the dorms do not need the help of AnTostal. 
Even though the idea origi­nated with AnTostal, HPC had almost no regrets about leaving the spring festival behind. A compromise was finally reached which raised the price of the shirts so that the dorms would make more money, while sharing their profits with An­Tostal. The leaders of HPC led the members of HPC to believe that everything that went wrong with the fund-raiser in the planning stages was the fault of AnTos tal. 
Members complained that HPC did all the work (although all we had to do was sell the shirts in our dorm) and that AnTostal did nothing (they thought of the fund-raiser, de­signed the shirt, ordered the shirt, advertised the shirt, and sold the shirt at most of the concession stands}. 
When $45,000 was finally raised, members complained that it was AnTostal's fault we did not make more money. When the head of AnTostal wrote a formal apology and explanation to HPC (although none was needed -he was the victim, not the problem}, the festival received another dose of abuse from HPC. 
This controversy brought on a tremendous amount of AnTostal bashing, and soured the relationship between SUB and HPC. Instead of working to­gether, HPC appears unwilling to cooperate with this extremely important campus organization which needs our support to be successful. 
At the last meeting of the semester, we debated four reso­lutions (doubling our output for the semester} and we were rewarded with food from the Spaghetti Works. One of the resolutions (passed by the Student Senate on unanimous consent) argued that hall staffs should not be allowed to use hall fines ("a popular form of sanction") for "meals or recre­ation for themselves" because "these monies could be used for charitable purposes or to build the whole dorm communities." It also resolved that the "use of these fines be disclosed to the hall community." This is a very good resolution because it re­quires hall staffs to use dorm money for the dorm and not for themselves. The resolution passed HPC on unanimous con­sent, and no one seemed to re­alize that I had attempted to pass the same resolution about HPC one week earlier. 
In conclusion, HPC has been an extremely ineffective organi­zation this year. Nothing of consequence has been accom­plished, and important issues are ignored or mistreated. HPC has stolen from the dorms for personal privileges of its mem­bers, and it has given virtually nothing in return. The organi­zation has turned into a bulletin board that I am required to at­tend every week. It is primarily a social group, where presi­dents use dorm funds to buy us food without telling anyone. 
It is a group unsupportive of SUB and AnTostal, two groups that depend on the dorms. It is an extremely selfish organi­zation whose primary purpose is to satisfy its members. 
This letter is in no way meant to criticize any individual dorm or hall president. There are many people in the group who feel the same way as I do, only most of them will not take a stand on this issue for fear of retaliation or criticism. 
HPC can and should be a very viable and important or­ganization on campus. Until something is done to change the internal crisis in HPC, however, the problems will continue. 
Robert W. Prichard President David F. Jacobson VIce-President Saint Edward's Hall 
Dec6,1991 

pageS 
Team planned on green uniforms 
By DAVE McMAHON AND 
ANTHONY KING 
Sports Writers 
The Irish surprised everyone when they came out for the game wearing green. Notre Dame wore white jerseys with green numbers and green socks, marking the first time Holtz has dressed the Irish in green. 
"It was planned for weeks," explained Holtz. "I just thought that it was a special occasion with the adversity we went through at the end of the year. It seemed like the Lady on the Dome would forgive us for wearing green. The players did not know until the pre-game meal. But we will always wear blue during the season." 
The last time the Irish wore green with the white jerseys was in 1981 in the Sugar Bowl against Georgia. Coach Dan Devine lost that game 17-10, but the green worked for him on other occasions. Devine earlier had switched to green in the 1977 USC game prior to kickoff, and the Irish cruised to a 49-19 victory and a national championship. 
Notre Dame's green numbers and socks may have been appealing to some, but offensive guard Mirko Jurkovic didn't think much of the new style. 
"They just made me feel like Gumby a little," said Jurkovic. 
For six Irish seniors, the Sugar Bowl was not the end of the season. Professional scouts received a look at the following players in several bowl games: 
Senior Bowl: tailback Tony Brooks, strong safety Rod Smith Hula Bowl: tight end Derek Brown, offensive guard Mirko Jurkovic East-West Shrine Game: Derek Brown Japan Bowl: center Gene McGuire, split end Tony Smith. Rod Smith 
With Matthews setting records for most passes (58) and completions (28), the Irish secondary was forced to make many stops. Strong safety Rod Smith led the Irish with 18 tackles. According to Smith, Coach Lou Holtz, acting as defensive coordinator after Gary Darnell became assistant coach at Texas, adequately prepared the Irish. 
"Coach got us jacked up and we did some intelligent things," said Smith. "The pressure worked well tonight-there weren't any blitz schemes, but we did a good job of containing them. We had enough athletes to cover them." 
Kicker Kevin Pendergast never really expected to see action in the Sugar Bowl. but was called upon when Craig Hentrich reinjured his knee. Pendergast did not travel with the team, but came down on his own accord, to enjoy the bowl activities. 
When it came down to it, Pendergast filled Hentrich's shoes as he connected on a field goal and three extra points. 
"I am very proud of Kevin Pendergast," said Lou Holtz. "We gave him a game ball. His mother had a setback recently and he did a great job for us." 
The Cheerios joke may have inspired the Irish, but the South Bend Center for the Homeless was the real beneficiary. 
General Mills Inc. sent Holtz five cartons (120 boxes) of Cheerios to his office. Attached to the cartons was a note from John 0. Hallberg, director of the Cheerios business unit. 
"Like the Fighting Irish, we have been one of America's favorite for years," said Hallberg. "And, as your team dramatically proved, both do belong in bowls." 
Holtz donated the Cheerios to the Center for the Homeless. 
"We sure can use Cheerios," said operations director Tammy Oehm. "That's a great donation." 


The ObserveriAndr-McCIOikey 
Willie Clark and Anthony Peterson combine for a high-low tackle on Florida's Willie McClendon. McClendon finished with 34 yards, while Clark and Peterson combimed for 
eight tackles. 
.1.;. 

Defensive tackle Troy Ridgley attempts to slow Florida's Erict Rhett. The Irish defense held Rhett to the Gator rushing attack to 141 yards. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
half. The trio of Brooks, Culver, and Bettis pounded the 
ball straight at the Gators. The offensive line opened gaping holes, and the Irish runners did the rest. Notre Dame ran 11 straight plays driving to the Florida 6, where the drive stalled. Pendergast hit the 23-yard field goal to get the Irish within 6. 
The Notre Dame defense stiffened in the second half, as they blanketed the Gator receivers and forced Matthews to continue to throw short. The Irish stopped the Gators on the next possession, and got he ball at the Notre Dame 20. 
After two passes to Tony Smith, the ground game took over again. Culver ran for 21 yards on a sweep left. Bettis rumbled for 8-yards up the middle, taking it to the Florida 9. The next play was an option right to Culver, and Mirer pitched the ball over Culver's head. Culver recovered, but it cost Notre Dame 15 yards. Mirer mended his error by hitting Tony Smith for 16 yards on a middle screen. This set up fourth and one for the Irish on the Gator eight. Notre Dame went to "old reliable", as Jerome Bettis busted over right tackle for 2 yards and a critical fll"St down. 
After two running plays for no gain, Mirer rolled right and found lrv Smith in the back of the endzone all alone 
for the touchdown. After the Pendergast extra point, the 
Irish had their frrst lead of the game, 17-16. 
The Gators were not going to roll over for Notre Lake Dawson dives in for a Dame, however, and again drove inside the Irish 20. passes for 49 yards, which was Florida again could not capitalize, and Czyzewski kicked another field goal. 22 lead. 
The Gators looked to take control of the game when "Our line was really opening defensive end Darren Mickell knocked loose the ball half," explained Bettis. "We from Mirer and recovered on the Notre Dame 12 yard ball against them because we line. The Irish defense again stood tall, and Czyzewski of the first half. We played booted his fifth field goal. game in the second half." 
"I thought that when we forced the field goal, when Matthews was not done, we were down 19-17 after the turnover, that that was Houston deep over Tom the critical part of the game," said Holtz. "We still only within four. Florida then needed one score to win. If we had given up a making it 32-28. touchdown, it would have taken two and that would The Gators then tried an have been much harder." smothered it easily. Notre 
In the fourth quarter, Jerome Bettis came to life. Bettis down and run out the clock, earned his first touchdown on a three yard scamper third and five, Bettis again era. over right tackle, with 4:48 remaining in the game. The side unscathed and sprinted e Irish then went for two, and converted on a short pass Florida secondary for his third 
;o Tony Brooks, giving Notre Dame a 25-22 advantage. 
Spurrier, sensing that his defense could not stop the Notre Dame running game, felt that it was now or never. Gambling on a fourth and ten, the Gators came up empty on ball batted down by Demetrius DuBose. 
On the next play from scrimmage, Bettis took the hand off from Mlrer and sprinted 49 yards untouched Into the endzone. With 3:32 left In the game, Pendergast gave the Irish what looked to be an insurmountable 32· 
The Gators were out of time a any miracles. Matthews tried but Jeff Burris's interception en a Sugar Bowl win. 
"People said that we didn't ha we proved them wrong toni DuBose. "We played our hearts It's the bJaest win I've been Dame.· 
Observer Wednesday, January 15, 1992 
The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz i5 yards on 15 carries and limited 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
NEW SUGAR BOWL RECORDS 
MOSTR MOST MOST MOST MOST MOST MOST MOST POINTS MOST FIELD MOST FIELD MOST PLAYS, R MOST YARDS MOST POINTS MOST PASSING MOST PASSING MOST YARDS GAIN MOST FIELD MOST FIELD 
.... 
The Observer/A. Garr SciMmtz Covering Florida's Willie Jackson, Notre Dame's Jeff Burris, with a little help from teammate Willie Clark, snags a game-ending interception. 
Trusty Irish offensive line punishes Gators to open offensive attack 
NEW ORLEANS-Cha-Ching. Ring one up for Notre Dame's offensive front. 
Although the defense performed exceptionally well when Florida had the ball inside the Irish 20-yard line, the Irish offensive line ultimately stole the show in Notre Dame's 39-28 win over the third-ranked Gators at the Louisiana Superdome. 
After Florida's offense ran nearly twice as much time off the clock in the first half than Notre Dame, Irish coach Lou Holtz knew a change had to be made. 
At halftime, Holtz opted for a ball control offense. As many coaches say, a team's rushing game is only as good Associate Sports Editor as its offensive line. In the second half, the Irish line dominated what had been the nation's 6th best rushing defense, allowing only 100 yards per game. 
Notre Dame's 279 rushing yards, highlighted by Sugar Bowl MVP Jerome Bettis' 150 yards on 16 carries (9.4 yards per carry), came as a result of yet another stellar performance by the offensive line. 

In a matchup of All-Americans, Notre Dame guard Mirko Jurkovic silenced Gator tackle Brad Culpepper. Culpepper, who entered the Sugar Bowl with 82 tackles in eleven previous games, tallied four tackles and one assist. 
Momentum keys the Irish offensive line, yet in the first half it wasn't to be found. With two punts, a lost fumble and an interception, the Irish couldn't establish much of a control game. Thirty-four rushing yards didn't help much either. 
So at the break, Holtz decided to take advantage of the size difference on the line and run the ball up the gut. While Florida's defensive line was noticeably quicker, Notre Dame's size allowed the Irish to run at will in the second half. 
"I think that offensively in the frrst half we were out of sync." said Holtz, who picked up his first win in two trips to the Sugar Bowl. "We decided at half to go to more of a power and ball control game in the second half." 
In order to do so, the line had to stay on its feet, a feat it couldn't accomplish in the first half. 
"We were slipping and on the ground a lot in the first half, which was probably because we were a little overanxious," said Irish guard Mirko Jurkovic. "We just wanted to go out and hit somebody. We were able to stay on our feet and hold our blocks longer in the second half." 
The Irish attacked quickly. Twelve rushing plays and 64-yards later, Kevin Pendergast cut the Gator lead to 16-10 with a 23-yard field goal. 
Tackles Justin Hall and Lindsay Knapp, guards Jurkovic and Aaron Taylor, ­and center Gene McGuire produced gaping holes for the Irish backfield, despite Florida's defensive speed. 
A trap block by Hall allowed Bettis to break free on his first score of the game. 
"The offensive line and coach [Joe] Moore have done a beautiful job all year," said Holtz, who emphasized that a team effort, rather than individuals, brought the Irish success. 
Defensively, the Gators were a torn and tattered bunch. 
-
"We sort of got worn down defensively and got some guys hurt, but we were able to put 11 on the field," said Florida coach Steve Spurrier. Although inside linebacker Carlton Miles left early with an injury, Spurrier recognized the offensive line as more of a factor than Florida's injuries. "We didn't have that many injuries-maybe we just got worn down by the size of the Notre Dame offensive line," said Spurrier. "I felt like Notre Dame would 
-
be able to run the ball effectively with the size of their offensive line. We were sort of hanging on by a thread defensively." The thread eventually wore too thin, mainly because of a dominant Irish offensive UDe. 
holes in the second 'IV we could control the gan to do it at the end 
•e of a power football 
wer, and hit Harrison to close the Gators to tt for two, but failed 
le kick, but Rod Culver 
wanted to get a first Bettis got more. On through the right past the drawn in 
down too far to stage to rally his team, the Gator's hope of 
·e a chance tonight and rht," said Demetrius ut. It's a big win for us. mctated wlth at Notre 
j touchdown pass from Irish quarterback Rick Mirer in the second quarter. Dawson caught two 1nd on the squad to Tony Smith's seven catches for 75 yards. 
combined Florida Florida of Florida of Florida otre Dame , Notre Dame 66 combined University of Florida University of Florida Matthews (UF) 397, Shane Matthews 18, Jerome Bettis (NO) 58, Shane Matthews 28, Shane Matthews 370, Shane Matthews Arden Czyzewski (UF) 5, Arden Czyzewski 
l'lleCIIIn •=•=..,..... 
c ' ' • . ' ' ' ' , ' .. •..... ~ .•.. ' •: 
Accent 
page 10 Wednesday, January 15, 1992 
-
-
... 
Paige Smoron 
Non Sequiturs 


A celebration 
of the Bob 
mystique 
0 
ver Christmas, I went to see Bob. I gazed at Bob for a long time. Slowly, I made my way over to Bob. Hesitatingly, I leaned on Bob. 
Timidly, I stood on Bob. 
And when I could stand it no longer, I stroked 
Bob's rails. 

Any casual reader of "People" magazine will 
know that Bob is a bridge about ten minutes 
west of Vail. A construction worker, Louie 
Sullivan, entered the "Name That Bridge" 
contest with the first thing that popped into his 
head. He has been congratulated for his 
minimalist creativity, but protests, "It ain't like I 
put any thought into it." 

Mr. Sullivan underestimates the Bob Mystique. 
For Christmas I received a copy of "The Bob 
Book: A Celebration of the Ultimate Okay Guy," 
and hungrily read page after page about why 
"Bob" is more than just a name you can say 
backwards. 

The authors explain, "Bobness is what prevents Bobs from wearing berets; from smoking French cigarettes; from quoting Nietzsche ... it accounts for Bobs breaking out in cold sweats whenever in the vicinity of mimes, Renaissance fairs, Vandyke beards, tarot cards, new Age music, and people who say 'ciao!'." 
Bob after notable Bob is interviewed, including Bob Newhart (the quintessential Bob), Bob Eubanks, the Anti-Bob, and Bob Ballou, a lesser known Bob whose name sounds like "Bobaloo" when spoken in haste. 
I learned about the Paternal Bob, the Romantic Bob, What Bob Knows For Sure, and how long average Bobs spend on their hair each day ("5.64 minutes, probably including washing and drying"). 
What's so special about Bob that merits an entire book trimmed in plaid? What makes Bob more than just one more name that does not form an obscenity in "The Name Game"? 
Bob was once Robert. Bob chose to be Bob. 
It can be a curse to have a common name. Many's I've had young men introduce themselves to me as "Tiqm-the 'q' is silent." 
The "q," of course, is a feeble attempt to distinguish themselves from the great throngs of Tims running rampant on this earth. 
Take Jennifer. The choice of a diminutive can indicate endless personality traits. The only person I know who goes by the full Jennifer is now "Miss Schaumburg" (no small responsibility, considering the tremendous mall that lies in her jurisdiction). 
But can't you just see someone who would introduce themselves as "Jeni-one-'n' -no-'y'"? Possibly with a circle instead of a dot over the "i"? But Bob doesn't need draw smiley faces in his "o." 
Bob is more than a nickname. "The Bob Book" asserts, "Bobs are essentially unaffected and have little to prove. If they wanted to prove anything, they would call themselves Robert. Or Rob. Or Bobby. Or Sting. Bob is the most enjoyable name to pronounce, with the possible exception of Hoyt." 
Bobs are simple. "The Big Questions aren't all that important to Bobs," say the authors. "If there were any Big Answers to be found, Bobs assume someone would have said something by now." 
I cannot choose to be Bob (or at least, it would be odd if I did). But I can applaud the Bobs who are finally coming into their own. 
In addition, I feel that the trend to name bridges with informal fondness is a powerful commentary on our society's need to be on a more familiar footing (sorry) with our bridges. 
Perhaps this time next year, I will have the opportunity-nay, perhaps I will take the opportunity-to tread on a bridge named "Jen." 
Yesireebob. 

Paige Smoron is Assistant Accent Editor ofThe Observer. Her columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent . 

CASA, a South Bend volunteer organization, is meeting the needs of abused children 
By TONY POPANZ order to assist the Indiana Accent Writer Department of Public Welfare place them in the most adequate 
Most of us take it for granted. situation. Possible options include We have a permanent home, a reunification of the child with his place where we truly belong. We original family, adoption, or have one or more parents or integration into a foster home for guardians who love us and ensure eventual adoption. our survival. These parents are our secure base from which we CASA is currently handling 60 explore the world and develop cases. St. Joseph County Courts views. are involved with children in need 
Some children-especially those of serveices at the rate of nearly handled by the Youth Service 200 per year. Bureau of South Bend-live in CASAs are assigned to only one turmoil and solitary existence. active case at a time; therefore, These children are the neglected, they have the time to do the type the abused, the inconspicuous, of in-depth investigation that is who remain------------necessary. As unwanted under "Before CASA the volunteers, they the guardianship child was basic'ally are able to make 
of corrupt parents, . . c o m p I e t e I y or even in Ignored, and hiS best in depend e n t over~rowded or interests were not recommendations 
abusive foster . , and are able to 
homes. Their day-always COnSidered. concentrate solely to-day living -Gloria Bailey on the child. conditions are d' t f CASA Most of the 
comparable to our lrec ory 0 workers in the 
worst nightmares. 
The Court Appointed Special Advocate program (CASA) is a nonprofit organization located on Lincoln Way West in South Bend that currently handles cases related to child placement in permanent homes. A volunteer is appointed by the Juvenile Court of St. Joseph County to act as an advocate for an abused child, or a child involved in a custody dispute. 
A CASA's responsibilities include investigating the circumstances surrounding the case, making an independent evaluation of what is in the child's best interest, both immediately and in the long run. CASAs monitor cases until a permanent plan is approved by the Court. 
CASA, which is a division of the Youth Service Bureau, reviews cases and examines children in 
Youth Service Bureau are volunteers. Also, there is one full-time director, Gloria Bailey, who matches volunteers with cases, and also reviews these cases before, during, and after the actual court proceedings. 
According to Bailey, the principal goal of CASA is to achieve permanency in the life of the child. 
They work long, hard hours in order to catalyze the evolution of a court decision to place the child in a permanent and beneficial situation. Since they are dealing with lives, time is a crucial factor. 
"The children get lost in the system. They stay out on a limb for a long time without any decision. Without CASA the progress is slow and tedious. Before CASA, the child was basically ignored, and his best interests were not always considered," commented Bailey. 
If it were not for a Seattle judge, the child's best interests would possibly still go partly unrecognized. From 1977 to present, CASA has spread across the country as being more cost­efficient and productive than the standard process involving attorneys. Currently, in Indiana alone, there are 48 CASA programs. 
"Four years ago, (in St. Joseph County) no one looked out for the child's best interests. At this point, 127 children are looked after by our organization alone. It's rewarding to see this," said Bailey. 
Perhaps CASA could not have been founded at a better time. As situations change, and divorce rates grow as the economy declines, there is a crusade such as this to intervene in the plights of children. 
"It is an overall different situation for both the children and the entire nation. There is more poverty than ever," stated Bailey. 
With unfavorable conditions comes a greater need for altruism. 
"We have a great need for volunteers. It's a tough job. The wrenching cases wear us out emotionally and physically," said Bailey. 
Any adult age 21 or over can submit an application. No special background is required. Volunteers should be mature, responsible people with good judgement who have the ability to remain objective, to relate to families in stressful situations and to communicate orally and in writing. 
"I think there are no resources in child welfare to deal with these problems adequately. A lack of resources as well as a lack of funds can make situations grim for children," concluded Bailey. 
-------------------------------------------------------" 
-----~-------------------­
Wednesday, January 15, 1992 page 11 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from t 0 am. 1o 3:30 p.m. a11he 
Notre Dame office, 3t4 LaFortune and from t2 p.m. to 3 p.m. a11he Sain1 Mary's office, 
309 Haggar College Cemer. Deadline 1or nex1-day clessifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cen1S per character per day, Including all spaces. 
Notices 
CUSTOMIZED WORD PROCESSING 
Reports/resumes/letters. 271-1618. 
ALTERATIONS AND DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL 259-8684. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
287-4082. 
Lost and Found 
LOST: GOLD & SILVER 500 LIRA COIN PENDANT BEFORE BREAK. NOT WORTH MUCH BUT I WILL PAY$ TO GET IT BACK. 283-3987. 
Wanted Spring Break to Florida Beaches Energetic Promoter needed. Earn FREE trips and CASH. Call CMI at 1-800-423-5264. 
$40,000/YRI READ BOOKS and TV Scripts. Fill out simple "like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun, relaxing at home, beach, vacations. Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 Hour Recording 801-379-2925 Copyright #IN 11 KEB 
For Rent 

HOUSE FOR RENT. $150/MO. 
WALK TO CAMPUS. CALL PAUL 
287-2159. 

6 OR 7 BEDROOM HOME NEAR 
CAMPUS.SECURITY 
SYSTEM.FOR FALL 1992. 272­
R::IOR 

$350.00/DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. 
2 AM'S FOR RENT 200 PER MONTH USE OF ALL UTILITIES ASK FOR PAUL 232-2794 
For Sale 

Favorite 8 Football Recipes of a Notre Dame Cook. $3. M.Sisk, 2741 S. 3rd, Niles, Ml 49120. 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50, 87 MERCEDES $100,65 MUSTANG $50. Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Details 801-379-2929 Copyright # 1N11KJC 
Personal 

INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
A SUMMER JOB YOU'LL LOVE! 
Coed Massachusetts camp, 3 hrs. Boston/NY City. Super kids, great food, friendly atmosphere. 100+ staff: tennis, lifeguard, WSI, arts/crafts, all land/water sports, fitness, gymnastics, piano/play for shows, drama, judo, dance, archery, photography, computers, rocketry, guitar, radio, video, yearbook, newspaper, wilderness, woodwork, RN, morel 6/20-8/22. Call/write CAMP EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd., Eastchester, NY 10707. 800/955-CAMP. 
SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER VACATIONS! Jamaica, Bahamas including airfare, great hotel, and much more from only $599. Buy from the #1 name you trust for quality vacations. FOUR SEASONS 1-800-331-3136. 
THANKS JENN DEAN Love, EBD 
ADOPTION Happy, loving couple wishes to raise your white newborn with warmth and love. Can provide financial security and education. Medical/legal expenses paid. Please answer our prayers by calling Maureen & Jim. Call 1-800­456-2656. 

Bobby T. Dickinson and Goose Rossmann are missed madly by hose-wearing, cello-playing, deeper-psychological types like mo. 
SENIORS SENIORS Weekly Bulletin ready at 
Career & Placement ­first sign ups end Wednesday, January 15. 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA 

Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. 
Yo Team Welcome back, g;t ready to hike them up and prepare for the second half. 
Erin -Welcome Back matt 
P.S. Nice Walkman 
There's a girl in Lyons who was seen in North Dining Hall last semester for the first time in three years. She's really embarassed about it, so if you saw her there, don't give her any grief. 
Congratulations Carl Roemer Good Luck in Chile! 
JD, MD, KL, One more semester left together. Let's make it count!. 
Dear Kelly and Jennysinker, I am glad you had a wonderful trip! Thanks for the presents. 
Love, Kristin 



YouVe Just Been Oeared ForTakeOff 
You can get a lot more out of life when Depending on where you fly, each the Card will say a lot about you. For one you set your sights a little school year travel certifi­thing it says you have a handle on what you cate is good for spend, so you don't have to carry over a bal­
higher. Which --.... 
is what applying $129 or $189 round­ance. It also says you're smart enough not to for the American Express® trip-and each summer travel pay interest charges that can really add up. 
Card is all about. When you get the certificate is good for $149 or Airfare examples 
Card, its easier to do the things you want $199 roundtrip. 
based on destination.
to do. And with the student savings that 
Your School

Savings that upgrade 
Roundtrips Year Fare
come along with it, you can do even more. 
your lifestyle. New York-Los Angeles $189 Boston-Orlando $129
Fly roundtrip on Continental 
AS a StUdent Cardmember you San Francisco-Denver for less than $100 each way. get more than great travel sav-$129 Student Card members receive four travel ings. You also save money on everything 
So take a few minutes now to call {have your bank address and account number ready), and apply for the American 
Express Card. 
With all that the Card offers you, notcertificates. They can be used to fly any­from clothing to long distance phone calls. 
even the sky is the limit.

where Continental Airlines flies in the All for a $55 annual fee. 48 contiguous United States. Two for the Obviously, savings like these say a lot THE CARD. school year, and two for the summer~ about the value of the Card. And having THE AMERICAN EXPRESs-CARD. 
Get going, call J.,800,967,AMEX. 
If you're already a Card member, there's no need to call. 
•School year is considered Sept. 1-June 14, summer June 15-Aug. 31. Complete terms and conditions ofthis travel offer will arrive with your certificates. Continental Airlines alone is responsible for fulfillment of this offer. American Express assumes no liability for Continental Airlines' performance. 
© 1992 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. An Amencan Express company 
-

page 12 The Observer Wednesday, January 15, 1992 
Women's hoops rallies, falls short against Tennessee 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 

For the Notre Dame women's 
basketball team, close just isn't 
good enough anymore. 

"We're a little frustrated right 
now," said Irish coach Muffet 
McGraw after her team's 85-82 
loss to third-ranked Tennessee, 
its fifth close defeat to a ranked 
opponent this season. "We're 
trying to play a top 20 schedule, 
and we're getting a little tired 
of being close. We want a win." 
However, an 18-4 run in the 
first seven minutes of the game 
by the Volunteers (8-1} doomed 
Notre Dame to playing catch-up 
the rest of the afternoon. 
Tennessee led 23-7 with 13:07 
left in the first half, and it ap­
peared as if this would be an­
other in the long line of domi­
nant victories the Volunteers 
have held over the 
Irish-Tennessee had won the 
previous eight meetings by an 
average of 26 points. 

"If we can figure out how to 
stop spotting teams 15 points 
every game, we're going to win 
a lot of games," said McGraw. 
But when the Volunteers be­
gan substituting midway in the 
half, the Irish (4-9} started their 
comeback from a deficit which 
had grown to as much as 22 
points (37-15} with 6:11left. 
Junior Coquese Washington hit a three-pointer from the right wing, and senior Margaret Nowlin scored six points during an 11-0 run as Notre Dame cut the deficit to 37-26 with just under four minutes to go in the half. 
"When we substituted today, it really hurt us," said Tennessee coach Pat Summitt. "We had some people come in not ready to play, and that was definitely a factor in our first half lapse. 
"We have started so strong the last three games, been very impressive early, and then we definitely appear to become complacent. I was hoping today would be different because we had addressed that problem, and it has to become a priority if in fact we want to become a great team." 
Another factor in Notre Dame's comeback was the 
21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 
~! Happy Birthday Kris ~! 21 
l 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 LOVE, MOM, DAD, &: BRO BEN 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 
-

record crowd at the Joyce ACC. 
Both Teachers' Credit Union 
and WNDU-FM sponsored a 
free ticket promotion, and 
8,134 people turned out to 
spark the Irish back to within 
nine at halftime. 

"The crowd is what got us 
back into the game," said 
McGraw. "We talked coming in 
that if we were behind (at half­
time}, that we couldn't be be­
hind by double figures, because 
we felt that we needed to be 
able to come back right away." 
Tennessee stretched the lead 
back to 15 early in the second 
half, but the Irish turned up the 
pressure on defense and began 
chipping away at the 
Volunteers' advantage. 

A 9-0 Notre Dame run keyed 
by its full-court press brought 
the Irish within six, 6 7-61, with 
8:46 left in the game. 

"We were surprised the press worked as well as it did," said McGraw. "We came into the game thinking we probably wouldn't be able to press them because they're so poised and handle pressure so well." 
The Volunteers were also plagued by poor free-throw shooting, hitting only 52 per­cent of their foul shots (14-27} in the second half. As Notre Dame climbed back into the contest, it appeared as if their inability to hit from line-they missed nine free throws in the final minutes-would cost them the game. 
"We are a talented team, a good team, but we won't be a great team until we take care of the basketball and make our free throws in pressure situa­tions," said Summitt. whatever reason, (free throws} have been a problem, and if it stays this way, I won't tell you that we won't be a top five team, but that's doing things the hard way." 
Tennessee built the lead back to 11 (79-68} with 3:48 remain­ing when Notre Dame made its final charge. Freshman Michelle Marciniak scored five straight points to spark a run to close the gap to 82-80 with 38 seconds remaining. Nowlin, who led all scorers with 23 points, also hit three baskets 

All you can eat

One large pepperoni 
specialpizza 

dine in only -$4.99
for $6.99 plus tax 
Mondays 5-8 p.m. 
Must show ND or SMC ID 
Summitt. "That's the one thing that this team has been able to do, when a team's made a run at us, we've been able to bear down and do what we had to do to win in the end." 
Marciniak and Washington also scored 17 points apiece. 
during that stretch. 

But the Volunteers righted themselves and pulled out the victory. Peggy Evans hit one of two free throws with 18 sec­onds left, but when Marciniak lost her balance going after the rebound, Tennessee regained possession. Dena Head then nailed two free throws with 10 seconds left to seal the victory. 
"That's the one thing that was pleasing, that late in the game, we took care of the basketball, we executed offensively, and we had good board play," said 
•TOURWAY INN • &'22 
·THE REEF •1,..,, , 4 
-7 nights-, 


-----------------------------------------~ -----------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, January 15, 1992 The Observer page 13 
Hoosiers shut down former teammate Funderburke in win over OSU 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. {AP)­Greg Graham scored 10 of his 25 points in the final 8:07 as No. 5 Indiana withstood a furi­ous comeback by Ohio State and former Hoosier Lawrence Funderburke and beat the fourth-ranked Buckeyes 91-83 Tuesday night. 
Damon Bailey scored 25 points for Indiana {12-2, 3-0 Big Ten), while Calbert Cheaney added 16 and Eric Anderson 11. 
Jim Jackson led Ohio State {10-2, 2-1) with a career-high 31 points. Chris Jent added 18 and Funderburke had 12 in his return to Assembly Hall after quitting the Indiana team two years ago. 
The Hoosiers were in com­
mand with a 56-37 lead on a 3­pointer by Cheaney with 14:37 remaining. 
But Ohio State erased the deficit and finally found its shooting touch in a 26-2 burst over the next 6:06. Funderburke taunted the parti­san crowd by scoring the Buckeyes' frrst six points of the run. 
Jamie Skelton capped the spurt with his third 3-pointer in the run that gave the Buckeyes a 63-58 lead and had the 17,328 fans on their feet howl­ing. 
Skelton had all of his 11 points in the spurt, while Jackson had five and Jent four. 
Jent's basket at 9:43 tied the game for the first time, 58-58. 
Graham steadied Indiana when he ignited the decisive 20­6 run on a 3-pointer that put the Hoosiers ahead to stay, 70­69, with 3:58 remaining. and Bailey made four free throws and a basket in the spurt as the Hoosiers closed the game with 20 consecutive free throws. 
Known for their slow starts, the Hoosiers opened with a 15­2 run, including five points by Bailey. 
Indiana freshman Alan Henderson missed the game with the flu. 
Funderburke appeared un­ruffied as Indiana fans heaped verbal abuse on the former Hoosier who quit the team in December 1989 after personal­ity conflicts with coach Bob Knight. 
Anderson and Funderburke shoved each other almost as soon as Funderburke came off the bench at 15:58 of the first half. Funderburke was also 
Garden 
continued from page 16 
After opening the season 1-4, the Irish have made a lot of progress, and they seem more comfortable with MacLeod's system. 
"The frrst five games were a transition period," Irish guard 
• 20-30 PAID STUDENT CALLER POSmONS AVAILABLE 
• 

• 
$5.10 per hour • meet new people 

• 
flexible evening hours • training 

• 
no experience necessary • real life experience 


Please join us for an infonnal 

OPEN HOUSE/INFORMATION SESSION 
Thursday, January 16th 4:00 -6:00pm at the Annual Fund Phone Center (Southeast corner of Badin Hall) 
If you have any questions, please call: Patty Studebaker 239-7938 or Kathy Webb 239-7241 

PAN PIZZA.! 

0.:::¢ · It's Delicious 
.­
•• ·~:. • .·t'J;•• 
.... • 0 
•Smothered with HALF POUND of Cheese. 
•Thick, Buttery & Golden Crisp Crust. 
·~ •Loaded With Fresh Toppings Of Your Choice. ~: 
o •271-0300 Notre Dame oo~· CP •289-0033 St. Mary's co 
r--------------~------------­
1 PAN-TASTIC! 1 
I Medi~m 1.~" I 
: 1-Toppmg llzza I 
1 $5.99 : 
: Choice of Crust: Pan or Original : 
I Student ID & Coupon Required. Please Mention 1 1 Coupon When Ordering. I 
Ofl"crexpiro&J..,. 21,1992. Valid&tputici· 
I patina'"""" onlj< Not valid wilh my other offer; I Limiled dd.i~ry am& lO e'DIUlC ufc drivina.
I C~lmncrpays: sale..tax when:, app~~e. O~~r I dri"VCn am not penalized far late delivenea. 
PARTY PLEASER 
Party Size 16" 1-Topping Pizza 
$7.99 
Student ID & Coupon Required. Please Mention Coupoo When Ordering. 
Ofl"croxpiro&JUDO 21.1992. Valid&tpulici­plllin& '""""only. Not valid wtlh my other offco:. 
Limi.led dcliwry ama to cnn= nfc dri.YU1J. 
Cm:tomarpayt:lalNtu whcm applicable. Our 
driwn am not penalized for Iuc dcli....mc.. 
~--------------~-------------­
·--------------·-------------­
1 STUDENT : SPECIAL 
1 Large 14" 1-Topping 1 Pizza 
1 $ 
I 6 • 9 9 
I Student ID & Coupon Required. PleaseI Mention Coupoo WI!<· l Ordering. 
Offer c~i.ra JUDL '· 1992 Valid atpartia-
I parin& llcnt: only ~ ~t valid with any other offer. Limiled dchwry a~ea to cMUJC 1are driving. C uJc. t!_ bl 0
L­
I 
driua:_:ep:;:pc~7:ia:tzif~~ m .. -------------­
1 DOUBLE DOOZIE 
: NEW! $9 99 
1 VALUE MENU • 1 2 Medium pizzas with 9 toppings. 
I Toppings arc Green Pepper, Onion, Mushroom, 
Pepperoni, Sausage, Beef, Ham, Bacon & Olives. I Original Crust Only. Pan Pizza $1.00 Crust More. I No su~stitutions or dele_tions. Student ID & CouponI required. Please mentwn coupon when ordering. 
I Offcrc.cpuu February 23, 1992 Valid at partici­paling st~ only. Not valid Wtth any other offer. 1 Limitod delivery a.ma to eDium safe drivmg. CUitomcr paya1alC6 tu where applicable. Our 
&. ----_dri::;::::o!J:na:.!:l::.de!!:~ _ 
Open24 
' 
I : I 
: 
I 
1 
1 1 
I 

Hours kinko·s· 
the copy center 

called for an intentional foul in the seocnd half when he hit Bailey with a forearm to the throat area. 
Cheaney moved past Ray Tolbert into ninth place on Indiana's all-time scoring list with 1,440 points. 
Daimon Sweet said. "We had to adjust to a new coach and learn a new system. Now we know what Coach MacLeod expects us to do, and things are starting to work out for us." 
MacLeod was pleased with his team's performance and is noticing some progress. 
"I like what I am seeing. We are beginning to make some moves, and I am seeing some positive signs that I was not seeing a month ago," said MacLeod. 
Though the Irish are still not a top 25 team, they are a drastically improved team then the one which left here in December. Their schedule, called the toughest in the nation by some, could hamper their chances at a post-season berth, but also could also help the Irish re-establish themselves as a basketball power. 
TheMCAT Isln l2Weeks. 
I STANlEY R KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYourCl1ances 

1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
Last Chance ForYour BestChance. 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
10 STUDENTS PER CLASS 100 HOURS OF LIVE INSTRUCTION 50 HOURS OF LIVE TUTORIAL NATIONAL 800 TELEPHONE HELPLINE 3 COMPUTER-SCORED DIAGNOSTIC TESTS SCIENCE FLASH CARDS MATERIALS WRITTEN BY PH.D.S 8c M.D.S 
SOUTH BEND 273-1866 


-
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, January 15, 1992 
Minter assumes duties as Notre Dame's defensive coordinator 
flight defenses-and statistics to go with them. His Ball State defense in 1991 ranked ninth nationally in scoring defense 
(13.4 points per game), 11th in total defense (283.5 yards per game) and 16th in passing defense (146.1 per game). 
A year ago in 1990, the Cardinals finished second in the 
Special to the Oburver 

Rick Minter, assistant head coach and defensive coordina­tor the last seven years at Ball State. was recently named to the defensive coordinator posi­tion on Lou Holtz's football coaching staff at Notre Dame. 
The 37 -year old Nash, Texas, native fills the vacancy created Dec. 20 when Gary Darnell left the Irish to join the staff at Texas under John Mackovic. 
Minter brings to Notre Dame a reputation for developing top-
Upset 
continued from page 16 

percent from the floor in the half. 
In the second half, the Irish quickly pushed their five-point lead up to 11, at 46-35, as Bennett buried a ten-foot jumper and Ellis and Bennett nailed shots off assists from freshman Billy Taylor. Carolina was able to pull within four points, 50-46, but that was as close as they would get the rest of the game. Bennett led the Irish with ten assists, and was the key figure in Notre Dame's ball-control offense down the stretch. 
The Irish defense was stingy in the second half, holding Carolina to 46 percent shooting from the floor, while the offense answered every run Carolina could come up with. While Carolina was struggling to pull itself back into the game, Ellis, Bennett, and Sweet were pacing the Irish attack with strong shooting. 
The Irish led 69-61 with 4:57 left in the game and put the contest out of reach in the next three minutes. Bennett stole an inbounds pass and Ellis tipped in a Taylor miss to increase the Irish lead to 71-61. Carolina made a quick run to pull within five, 73-68, but the shooting touch of Daimon Sweet down the line sealed the victory. 
Sweet jammed home a lob pass from Bennett, and the Irish led 73-68. After two free throws from Bennett made the score 75-68, the Irish were simply looking to run out the clock with only 1:35 left in the contest. Instead, Sweet, all alone on the weak side, quickly launched a risky three-pointer that found its mark and broke the Tar Heels. 
"It was a terrible shot," said Sweet. "I wasn't supposed to take that shot, but I was in the flow and I knew I had it. This is a huge win, and we want to play every game like we did today." 
Fittingly, the big three, Bennett, Sweet, and Ellis, were the ones whose free-throw shooting down the stretch nailed the victory. The seniors played almost the entire game and scored 79 of the 88 Irish points. Their leadership was evident as they stepped up the level of play in the big game to produce the upset win. 
Hubert Davis led the Tar Heels with 22 points and Lynch chipped in 14, with Derrick Phelps tossing in 13. Carolina shot only 47.8 percent from the floor for the game, the first time this season the Tar Heels were held to under 50%. The Irish, by comparison, shot 61.8
-percent from the floor and 89.5 percent from the free-throw line. Said Carolina head coach Dean Smith, "We congratulate Notre Dame. They were certainly more ready than we were. Ellis and Sweet were obvious factors, and Bennett was crucial to control the tempo. John {MacLeod) has done a marvelous job." 
WORK SMARTER. 
N HARDER. 
The BA II PLUS~M For business too. So you don't have 11~68, an advanced scientific that students, this is the one to get. It to work harder. solves up to five simultaneous equa~ handles time~value~ofmoney and 
tions, performs complex numbers offers cash flow analysis for internal 
W
e're working smarter, And there are others. Like the 
For us, it means an ongoing and offers formula programming. rate of return (IRR) and net present
relationship with educators and value (NPV). Plus a whole lot more.
professors, striving to understand No matter what your major, no matter what the course, there's a 11 scientific or business calculator that's right for you. Do the smart thing: make one of them a part ofyour professional personality now, and for the years to come. You'll be on your way to working smarter. Instead of harder. Try the entire line of11 scientific and business calculators at your local11 retailer. 
~TEXAS 
INSTRUMENTS 

The 11~36X SOLAR, a general purpose workhorse powered by ANYLITE™ solar cells so you never need batteries. 
what's needed to help them make math concepts come alive. 
It means continually working with students like you, discovering firsthand what you expect from the calculator you select. 
The result? Calculators that are highly recommended by your teachers and peers. Calculators that are perfectly matched to your major and your coursework. 
The 11~81 is a perfect example. It offers the most comprehensive, easy~t~use graphing features avail~ able with extensive programming capabilities. 

nation in total defense {222.6 yards per game), third nation­ally in pass defense (101.8 per game). Ball State allowed only one first -period touchdown in all of 1990. 
"I've known Rick since he was a graduate assistant at Arkansas back in 1978," said Holtz. "I've been impressed with his progress as a coach and with the consistent play of his teams. He has a burning de­sire to coach at Notre Dame. His enthusiasm for being here and his successes on the field were strong factors in his favor. We know we have a tremendous challenge ahead of us defensively in 1992." 
Prior to going to Ball State in 1985, Minter coached at New Mexico State (linebackers in 1984), North Carolina State (defensive ends from 1980-82). Louisiana Tech (defensive ends in 1979), Arkansas (graduate assistant under Holtz in 1978) and Henderson State (graduate assistant in 1977). 
Wednesday, January 15, 1992 The Observer 
page 15 


THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
@) 1986 Universal Press Syndicate 
/ 





CROSSWORD MENU 

ACROSS 
1 Struggled for air 7 "Sound of Music" family name 12 Instruction from 
Jack LaLanne 13 Passover book 17 "A ----Born" 18 Build castles in 
the air 19 Taro root 20 Efforts 21 Hurt 22 Give ----(care)23 Nebraska Indians 24 Kind of shoppe 25 ----tennis 26 Prohibitionists 27 Madison Avenue 
emolo.vees 
28 Andy Capp's missis 
29 Disappointed expression 30 L1 ke or that (2 wds.) 
31 Familiar TV profile (2 wds.) 36 Car 37 Hoopster Archibald 38 Deer Jg Thompson or Hawkins 41 ----Hruba Ralston 
42 Cocksure 
43 Lay----the line 
44 "Bei Mir ----du 
Schoen" 45 Sheet music notations 46 New York campus initials 
47 Trading centers 
48 Part of CPA (abbr.) 
49 Walk 51 Part of a printing press 53 Even a score (2 wds.)
54 Play the market 
55 Relative of Anopheles56 Noah and Wallace 
DOWN 
1 U.S.O. frequenters 2 Waiting room 3 31-Across film 
(4 wds.) 4 Absolve 5 Thomas Stearns ---­6 French preposition 7 31-Across film, 
11 The ----" 
8 Car accessories 9 James and Tommie 10 Annual 1 inks 
tourneys 11 "----Joey"14 31-Across film 
(4 wds.) 15 Nitrogen compound16 The face that 
launched 1,000 ships20 Pentateuch 22 -Romeo 24 Like "To a Skylark" 26 Dumbbell 27 "... exclaim ­
drove out of sight" 29 Ration 30 Official proceedings 32 Devastate 33 Queen of Hearts' 
specialty 34 Bit of politeness 35 Tavern inventory 39 "The Rise of ----
Lapham" 40 "Once upon -.•• " 41 Its own reward 42 Record protector 44 Bleated 45 Part of a play 47 French miss (abbr.)50 Miss Hagen
51  Lie  
52  Football (abbr.)  positions  

Notre Dame 

Noodles Romanoff 
Sweet & sour pork 
Roast chicken with gravy 

Sports 
page 16 Wednesday, January 15, 1992 
Irish gel in finale, upset Gators 39-28 
By ANTHONY KING 
Associate Sports Editor 
NEW ORLEANs-An inspired, green-clad Notre Dame team ran over the number three­ranked Florida Gators in the USF&G Sugar Bowl, 39-28. 
It wasn't even supposed to be a contest. The Gators looked impressive in their win over Florida State. Notre Dame was coming off a narrow victory against Hawaii and two disap­pointing losses to Tennessee and Penn State. Sportswriters were questioning whether Notre Dame even belonged in a January 1st bowl. The Cheerios jokes were running rampant and defensive coordinator Gary Darnell had taken otT for Texas. 
Florida instead found a reju­venated and fired-up Notre Dame team that showed why they belonged. 
It did not look promising for Notre Dame in the early going. Florida took the ball on the opening kickoff and marched 85 yards for a touchdown. Quarterback Shane Matthews engineered the drive, picking the Irish zone apart for 55 yards, including a 15-yard strike to Willie Jackson for the score. 
Things went from bad to worse for Notre Dame when kick return man Clint Johnson was stripped of the ball and the Gators recovered at the Irish 39-yard line. 
On the next play Matthews threw deep but was picked otT by corner back Willie Clark on an underthrown ball. Clark re­turned the ball to the Notre Dame 32 and a late hit penalty gave the Irish the ball at the 47. 
Notre Dame could not cash in on the field position and was forced to punt. After a touch-back, the Gators again began their assault on the Irish de­fense. Matthews hit Willie Jackson for gains of 14 and 18 
more Sugar Bowl I pages 8 and 9 
yards, ·but the drive stalled at the Notre Dame 9. Gator kicker Arden Czyzewski then made the first of his Sugar Bowl record five field goals, giving Florida a 10-0 advantage. 
Clint Johnson almost broke the ensuing kick return, giving the Irish good field position at the Notre Dame 48. Again the offense stalled and was forced to punt. 
The high-powered "Air Spurrier" offense again took the field and marched down the field. Matthews was getting all day to throw, but was forced to check otT many times and throw to the shorter routes. The Lou Holtz installed "bend but don't break" defense again forced the Gators into settling for a field goal. 
The Irish offense finally got on the scoreboard. Mirer audi­bled on a second and one play, and hit an open Lake Dawson who then streaked down the right sideline for the 40-yard score. 
On the kickoff, .Craig Hentrich reinjured his knee, and was forced to leave the game. Luckily for the Irish, Kevin Pendergast made the trip down to New Orleans as a vacation, but now he would be the only real kicker Notre Dame had. 
After a Mirer interception, Florida added another field goal to make the halftime score, 16­7. 
The Irish had to feel that they had dodged the bullet, and were still in a game that could have gotten out of hand. The 

The Observer/ Andrew McCloskey Sugar Bowl MVP Jerome Bettis rumbles ahead for the second of his three touchdowns. The sophomore fullback put the Irish on top 25-22, a lead they would never relinquish. 
Gators had been inside the we didn't." and we did that in the second Notre Dame 20 four times and Holtz felt that the Irish could half." only came away with 16 points. run on Florida and that became He wasted no time in imple­
"We had our chances offen-his second half gameplan. menting it, as Notre Dame sively," explained Florida coach "We went back to Notre Dame came out with nothing but run­Steve Spurrier. "We had the football," said Holtz. "We have ning plays to start the second chance to score 50 points but to get in a rhythm on offense 
see IRISH I page 8 
Irish hoops shines in unlikely 88-76 win over Tar Heels 
Ellis, Sweet, Bennett end ND shooting woes vs. NC 
By RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 
NEW YORK CITY-The Notre Dame men's basketball team could not have picked a better time for its finest performance of the season than last Saturday, when the Irish upset eighth-ranked North Carolina 88-76 at Madison Square Garden. 
After starting out 1-5 on the season, the win over the Tar Heels was Notre Dame's third straight, two of which were over ranked teams, to pull their record to 4-5. 
Said Irish coach John MacLeod, "Today was the time to catch Carolina, right between two big copference games. This is a major boost for us. Our de nse held us up and we kept banging the ball to th1 1pen man. I like what I'm seeing here." 
Against Carolina, the Irish, led by strong performances by LaPhonso Ellis, Daimon Sweet, and Elmer Bennett, never trailed and were last tied at 1 0-10 early in the first half. The Irish jumped out to a quick 8-2 lead, but the Tar Heels' George Lynch ler 1l.n 8-2 run to tie the score at 10-10. 
ter Ellis, who finished with a game-high 31 po ts, buried a three-pointer and converted a th1 -point play, the Irish led 18-14. Sweet, whose 30 points was a career high, stuffed a dunk otT a Keith Tower rebound and scored a bucket on the fas oreak to up the lead to seven points, at 24-17. 
Working both a fast-paced transition game when po!.:;ible and a methodical half-court offense as well, the Irish kept North Carolina at bay throughout the remainder of the half. Ellis had a pair of dunks off assists from Tower, and the Irish went into the locker room with a 40-35 lead. The Irish shot a strong 64.3% in the first half, with Ellis pumping in Obse An McCio k 19 points. Notre Dame held Carolina to only 50 . . . •ne. rver/ drew. 5 fYY 
Laphonso Elhs sktes over North Carolina's Enc Montross m Notre 
see UPSET/ page 14 Dame's 88-76 shocker at Madison Square Garden. 

Coach returns to arden, finds success with Irish 
NEW YORK CITY--Last season some people questioned John MacLeod's coaching style as the New York Knicks struggled to a 39-43 record, 32-35 under MacLeod. They were then swept by the Chicago Bulls in the first round of the playoffs. 
After the season MacLeod MIKE SCRUDATO resigned to become coach Sports Writer at Notre Dame, and the Knicks hired Pat Riley to replace him. Riley has led to Knicks to a 21-11 record and first place in the Atlantic Division. Because of this, a lot of New Yorkers seemed to forget who John MacLeod was. 

On Saturday, he returned to Madison Square Garden to remind them. This time no one was second-guessing him, as his team dominated North Carolina in its 88-76 win. 
"I was looking forward to coming back to New York," MacLeod said. "I'm very comfortable in the Garden. There were times last year I wasn't, but it is good to be back and see some of the people I dealt with last year." 
The victory, which NBC announcer AI McGuire called "the biggest upset" he had seen in his 14 years of broadcasting, shows the turnaround Notre Dame has made since December. 
"It's amazing after seeing them [the Irish] early, and then seeing them now," North Carolina coach Dean Smith said after the game. "John MacLeod has done an excellent job." 
see GARDEN I page 13 









