The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 2 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Hawaii Club raffle to aid lniki victims 
By KENYA JOHNSON News Writer 
The Notre Dame Hawaii Club is raffling off two Penn State General Admission Tickets for the benefit of the people of Kauai, victims of Hurricane Iniki. 
"The intensity is just the same as the Hurricane Andrew," said Diane Wong, co-president of the Hawaii Club. "There may not be. as many people, but the damage in Kauai is just as bad and the people need a lot of help," she added. 
Only four students at Notre Dame are from the island of Kauai: Ryan Delapena, Zoraida Radona, Clarissa Remigio, and Emmanuel Remigio. None of the students' families were in­jured but they did report some property damage. 
Radona's family did not expe­rience much damage, but, she said, "many friends and rela­tives are suffering." 
"I think the only good thing out of the disasters is the to­getherness I see from everyone. Kauai, and really the entire Hawaiian Island community, has come together to help one another," said Radona. 
"As a freshman I'm really shocked to see how quickly Notre Dame students and alumni respond to the tragedy. I'm thankful and now very hopeful," she added. Delapena agreed. 
"It's a great gesture by the Notre Dame community," he 
see HAWAII I page 4 

Group's job is to 'clarify the myths of feminism' 
By CORA SANDBERG News Writer 
"People have a right to be scared of feminism because it questions the whole structure of Western authority," according to Ann Clark, chair of the philosophy department at Saint Mary's College. 
This was the topic of last night's discussion, "What About the F Word?" sponsored by the Center for Women's Alliance. 
Co-chair for the center, Sarah Miyata, said, "Our goal is not only to educate but enlighten people and clarify the myths about feminism today." In ad­dition to Clark, the panel in­cluded Joe Incandela, professor of religious studies, Mary Ca­puti, professor of political science, and students Lisa Klaucen and Renee Young. 
Political and social changes are the major contributors to the changes in feminism as a social movement and as a study, said Caputi. Caputi discussed the way in which feminism has changed in the academic arena within the last twenty years. She expressed her concern about how feminism is perceived by students and faculty and said she hopes that women's studies courses will help students understand what exactly feminism is. 
"A feminist is someone who promotes the equality of 
see FEMINISM I page 4 





PURDUE WEEKEND 
Sclieau[e 
ofl£vents 
Friday 3:00p.m. Campus Tour, Statue of Our Lady, Main Gate 
4:15 p.m. Women's National Cross Country Meet, Burke Golf Course 
4:30 p.m. Marching Band Rehearsal, at Main Building 5:00p.m. Men's National Cross Country Meet, 
Burke Golf Course 7:00p.m. Pep Rally, J.A.C.C. 
7:30 p.m. Women's Soccer vs. Duke, Alumni Field 
Saturday 9:00a.m. Pregame Tailgate Party and Grill, Morris Inn Patio 
9:00 a.m. Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross College Alumni Hospitality Center, J.A.C.C. 
10:30 
a.m. Glee Club Concert, J.A.C.C. 

10:30 
a.m. Porn Pon Squad and Cheerleading Performance, Hammes Bookstore 


11:00 
a.m. Shenanigan's Performance, J.A.C.C. 

11:00 
a.m. Band Concert, J.A.C.C. 


11 :15 a.m. Porn Pon Squad and Cheerleading Performance 
12:35 p.m. Kickoff, Football vs. Purdue, Notre Dame Stadium 5:00p.m. Vigil Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Sunday 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:30, and 11:00 a.m. Mass, Sacred Heart Crypt 8:00, 10:00, and 11:45 a.m. Mass, St. Joseph's Chapel 

The ObserverfTom Zipprich 

Contemplation on art 
This woman with her vase is just one of the many statues that can be found outside of O'Shaughnessy Hall. The sculpture area provides a place to relax and study for students. 

Mental health center to sell 'Lou' masks 
By MARK KREJCI News Writer 
The Madison Center of South Bend and Hall Presidents Council are selling 30,000 full­color masks of Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz. The masks are for three dollars apiece with proceeds to benefit programs to aid homeless people with mental health and substance-abuse problems in South Bend and Mishawaka. 
The Madison Center is a non­profit community mental health center which provides services to people with substance-abuse as well as mental health prob­lems. The center provides free or reduced services for those unable to pay. 
HPC decided Sept. 1 that they would support the sale of the masks at Notre Dame. They will be sold door-to-door in each dorm, as well as in local business establishments, such as all South Bend/Mishawaka Society Banks, Burger Kings, Martin's Super Market, The Linebacker, Coach's Lounge and others. All proceeds will go to Madison Center. 
Jason Coyle, co-chair of HPC, said the masks may be used in an upcoming pep rally and HPC will receive no money from the sale of the masks. 
Jack Roberts, executive direc­tor of Madison Center, said the idea for the fund raiser came from his staff who wanted to 
see MASKS I page 4 

Speaker: Peace message doesn't reach media 
By THERESA ALEMAN News Writer 
People should mobilize and educate society on peace, ac­cording to Jackie Smith, a Notre Dame graduate student. 
Smith, in her lecture Thurs­day, "Frame or Be Framed: The 
U.S. Peace Movement, the Media, and National Security Debates," discussed the reasons for grossly limited citizen input on foreign policy. 
"The government, generally the President," Smith said, "is the main framer of foreign policy." Smith defined "framing" as "defining a prob­lem, finding the cause of that problem, and suggesting solu­tions to it. " 
The main reason for limited public influence on foreign pol­icy, Smith said, is societal con­cern with domestic affairs and general apathy toward foreign policy. Smith blamed this lack of interest on the national me­dia's unilateral coverage of foreign affairs. 
Smith said the national me­dia has a profound effect on general debate, or lack of de­bate, over foreign policy. She blamed the media's apparent bias against peace movements on the fact that the media really never address the agenda of peace movements. 
"The media draws on a select, reliable list of sources, and peace movement sources are generally regarded as bi­ased,whereas the word of gov­ernment officials regarding foreign policy is viewed as reli­able," Smith said. 

Peace movements gain in­roads to media coverage, Smith said, by staging demonstrations to force the media into covering opposing viewpoints. These demonstrations, Smith acknowledged, usually appear as small groups of radicals with poorly defined agendas and proposals. 
The media's effect on the ef­forts of peace movements, ac­cording to Smith, is generally negative not because the media disagree with the movement's stance, but rather because of "ineffective framing by mem­bers of peace movements." 
see PEACE! page 4 

Graduate student Jackie Smith discusses her views on peace and mobilization at her lecture yesterday. Smith said peace organizations need to be active and gain positive publicity for themselves. 

• 
In 1690: The first American newspaper, Publick Occurrences, published its first -and last -edition in Boston. 

• 
In 1789: The first United States Congress, meeting in New York, adopted 12 amendments to the Constitution and sent them to the states for ratification. Ten of the amendments became the Bill of Rights. 

• 
In 1981: The Rolling Stones launched a 25-city American tour at Philadelphia's John F. Kennedy Stadium. 

• 
In 1990: In a videotaped message to Americans, Iraqi President Saddam Hussein warned that if President Bush were to launch a war against his country, "it would not be up to him to end it." 


I 
r 
•
t 
! • 
~ 
t 
I ! 
•
t 
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Murphy Brown. The Arsenio Hall Show. "'Read my lips ... "' Sister Souljah. Harry "Give 'em HeW 
Truman. Bubba. 2Pacalypse (a rap album A
which Quayle said Wednesday should be 
value"). Larry King Live (and otherwise). Prince Albert. "I don't want to be Santa Claus." Media elite (along with its relatives, cultural 
eilte and Hollywood elite). NO DRAFT DODGERS FOR PRESIDENT. "Political cross-dressing ... " Rolling Stone. 1-800 ... "It's time for them to go!" Phil Donahue. "What about unborn children, Bill?" Potato (or is it potatoe?) 
H. Ross Perot. "I didn't inhale." Woody Allen. The New York Post. The Daily News. "My 12-year affair with Bill Clinton." The Waltons vs. the Simpsons. Rock the Vote! The "ex-undeclared presidential candidate." Ronald Reagan. Governor Moonbeam. "I could have stayed at home and baked 
cookies." Commencement. Elvis. Pat Buchanan (or was that David Duke?) Comedy Central. The bus tour. Stepan Center. "President Bush today rejected the latest 
debate proposal..." The guy in the chicken suit. Family values. MTV's "Choose or Lose." Slick Willie. "Anti -Clinton." "Anti-Bush." AAUUUUUGGHH!!! Like it or not, American taxpayers are shelling 
out over $100 million to the Democrats and to the Republicans to conduct a presidential campaign. 
So, how do you like the results so far? If you didn't understand each and every one o these "sound bytes," don't worry about it. 
The point of this list of "sound bytes" is to show how much of the campaign has been based on things that are fuzzy, trivial, irrelevant and, in some cases, downright silly. 
Remember, this process decides who is going to occupy the White House for the next four years. We, as American citizens, should be demanding that the campaign be about things that are going to affect us and our children, not things that make for snappy headlines and high ratings. 
Is this any way to select a leader? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff News Production 
Nashville 72 56

FRONTS: 
New York 62 45 
Paris 66 52 64 47 66 63 62 52 67 40 61 66 64 47 





TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Marcos estate held liable for atrocities 
• HONOLULU (AP) ­
A federal court jury Thursday found the estate of the late Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos and his wife Imelda liable for torture and other atrocities committed against political opponents during his rule. A separate trial will be held on how 

much the estate must pay the plaintiffs. The lawsuit seeks damages of $2 million for each torture victim and $3 million for each of those killed or missing. The trial was on a lawsuit filed on behalf of as many as 10,000 Filipinos dissidents who said they were subjected to a campaign of torture, murder, rape and imprisonment during the period from 1972 until Marcos' overthrow in 1986. Marcos died here in exile in 1989. 


OF INTEREST 
• 
The NO-Purdue Pep Rally will take place tonight at 7 p.m. at the JACC. Lou Holtz will be the featured speaker. 

• 
Alcoholics Anonymous meetings will be to­morrow and every home-game Saturday morning. They are hosted by the Alumni Association and will be closed meetings in the multipurpose room of the Center for So­cial Concerns. 

• 
Saturday Vigil Masses will be held in the residence halls after the game -in Alumni, Keenan, and Ca­vanaugh chapels 1/2 hour after the game; Dillon, Flan-


MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
NATIONAL 

Ford recalls 337,000 automobiles 
• DEARBORN, Mich. (AP)-Ford Motor Co. on Thurs­day recalled about 337,200 1984-85 model year Mus­tangs and Capris for possible seat belt problems. A small plastic part in front seat belts may melt from exposure to direct sunlight, allowing the belt's hook to separate from the strap. The plastic piece connects the hook to the strap, the company said. Owners were being notified of the recall by mail and told to bring their vehicles to dealers for free repairs. About 30,300 of the vehicles are in Canada. Ford knows of no injuries resulting from the problem, said spokesman John Ochs. 

Fire at Universal's 'Backdraft' exhibit 
• UNIVERSAL CITY, Calif. (AP) -A welder's torch ig­nited a fire Thursday at Universal Studios' "Backdraft" attraction based on Ron Howard's 1991 film about fire­fighters, officials said. No one was injured and the fire was put out in 10 minutes by a Los Angeles County fire unit stationed at the studio, said Capt. Steve Valenzuela. An audience was in the attraction at the time and was evacuated as a precaution, said Joan Bullard, a Universal spokeswoman. The attraction was shut down, but Bullard said she believed the exhibit was still operable. 
ner and Sorin at 5 p.m. 
• A Spanish mass will be held on Sunday at 10:30 
a.m. sponsored by Campus Ministry and the Hispanic American Organization. 
• WSND Campus Newswatch show premiers this Sunday at 5:30 p.m. on WSND 88.9 FM. Host Mike Schmiedeler will be talking to Student Body President Greg Butrus and Vice President Molly O'Neill about their plans for the academic year. 
Sandy Wiegand Steph Goldman Michael O'Hara Whitney Sheets 
Sports Systems 
Jonathan Jensen The Czar 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING September 24 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 231.635,420 +.56 to 229.98 S&P COMPOSITE 

+1.03 to 418.47 
DOW JONES INDUSTHIALS 
+9.18 to 3,287.87
UNCHANGED 
636 

GOLD 
+ .60 to $3439.40 
SILVEH 
+ 1.2 to $3.837 

---~----------­
Friday, September 25, 1992 The Observer Page 3 
1 





Nearly 50 missing in aftermath of French flooding 
l 

VAl SON-LA-ROMAINE, France (AP) -Families claimed bodies that were laid out in rows of white coffins Thursday as firemen dug through the mud looking for more victims of the flash floods that killed at least 34 people. 
Nearly SO people were miss­ing and officials said there was little hope any of them survived the storm, which may turn out to be France's deadliest. An October 19S8 storm in the neighboring Gard region killed 36. 
At least 23 people died in this ancient Roman town when the rain-swollen Ouveze River rose SO feet Tuesday. The other deaths were elsewhere in the Vaucluse region of southeast France, a popular vacation area, and in the neighboring regions of Ardeche and Drome. 
In parts of Vaison-la-Ro­maine, about 2S miles north of Avignon, stores reopened, cafes were crowded and children once again made their way to school. 
But elsewhere, people picked through foundations of houses swept away by the surging river, helicopters circled over­head looking for the missing and workers dug cars out of the mud. 
The Moulin de Cesar camp­site, shown on television broad­casts, looked like a child's play­room with campers and trailers tossed into treetops and over­turned on top of campsite buildings. 
"We found a body inside a car that was washed away," said fireman Claude Benetti. "It was 
engulfed in mud that broke 
! 
right through the windshield. 
j
There weren't any injuries, the victim could only have suffo­cated." 
As the toll mounted, ecolo­gists and others threatened of­

I ficials with lawsuits for allowing rapid construction of homes and camping sites in flood zones. Others said deforestation contributed to the flooding. 
I 
European c rrency markets have 
:;+/ti,Hf//\,. ,;.:-,!&,t~~y>,:,·· · .,. )~~Mft:\:::., 

no immedi ttacks on the F 
Is This a Face of a Lawyer? 





Happy Birthday, Rick! 
From the gang jon Eddy Street. 
COCKED 
AND 


LOADED 
\.t 

s~ 0~ 0~~ io~, 
For Mature Audiences 


ANDREW DICE CLAY 
IN CONCERT FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6th 8:00P.M. MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
Tickets available at the Morris Civic Auditorium, Tracks Records, Orbit Records, and World Records 
CHARGEBYPHONE23~9190 
Produced By Sunshine Promotions and Contemporary Presentations 
Please support. 
+
American 
Red Cross 
I


Major demands limits 
l 


on interference by EC 
LONDON (AP) -Prime Minis­ter John Major, seeking to mol­lify opponents of the European union treaty, called Thursday for a declaration limiting the power of the European Com­munity to interfere in the af­fairs of its 12 member states. 
"We need a definition, a set­tled order of what is for na­tional action and what is for community action," said Major, who currently holds the com­munity's rotating presidency, at the start of a two-day emer­gency session of Parliament. Major late Thursday won a 322-296 vote of confidence in his Conservative government's economic policies, which have come under fire since he re­moved the plunging pound from the European system of exchange rates on Sept.16 
During a debate in Britain's 6S1-member House of Com­mons, Labor leader John Smith called Major "the devalued prime minister of a devalued government." 
In Bonn, meanwhile, the German government vigorously denied a report that it and France were seeking to estab­lish a "little Europe" that would exclude Britain and other countries. 
Die Welt newspaper reported 




The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Sports Copy Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement to Mike Scrudato by Friday Sept. 25. Contact Mike at 239-7471 for more information. 

Serving ND/SMC Students for 27 years
GO IRISH! Beat Purdue! 


r-<:olorri~-Pancikeifouse-l 

September I I 
: Apple Pancake I 

Special: I I 
l SAVE $1.00 off l Thick Sliced I L-------~XJ~!~~~!_______j I Cinnamon r--colon1afPancike1iouse-l 
I I 
French Toast I Any Omelette l 
I I 
$.50 off I SAVE $1.00 off I 
I I 
L_______~XJ~!~~~~-------J
all month 

U.S. 3l(Dixieway) North in Roseland 
no coupon needed 
(Across from Holiday Inn) 272-7433
Open at 6:00 a.m. daily 
Just North of Campus 
Thursday that Chancellor Hel­mut Kohl and French President ~ Fran~tois Mitterrand, at a meet­ing in Paris on Wednesday, agreed to create a core eco­nomic union of Germany, France, Belgium, the Nether­lands and Luxembourg by 1997. 
The European union treaty, signed last December at Maas­tricht, Netherlands calls for a single currency and central bank, as well as common for­eign and defense policies by 1999. 
Economic and currency union could be implemented by 1997 if at least seven of the 12 signatories have met economic criteria spelled out in the treaty. 
German officials called the report "fictitious," saying Kohl was committed to a European union of all 12 members. But a government statement did not deny Kohl and Mitterrand had discussed such a core union. It said only that the two leaders had not "agreed" on such a plan. 
Observers in Germany viewed the discussion of a "mini­Europe" as an attempt to put pressure on Britain to ratify the Maastricht accord. 
Student dies after an illness 

Danielle Zock, a 20-year-old Saint Mary's sophomore from Niles, Mich., died Wednesday at 9:2S a.m. at Pawating Hospital . in Niles after an illness. Zock ' J was born Aug. 21, 1972, in In­dianapolis and graduated from Saint Joseph High School in South Bend. She is survived by 
l 
her mother Kathleen Zock. Visitation will be Friday from S ~ to 9 p.m. (Michigan time) at Halbritter Funeral Home in 1 Niles. The service will be at 11 
a.m. Saturday at Saint Mary's Church in Niles. Memorial 

l
contributions may be made to Southold Dancenter Scholar­ship Fund. 
YOU'RE LOOKING 
AlALETHALWEAPON 

Before you take another btte, think ;about the fact th.n a dJet hljj:h in cholesteml and fat can luad vnur hluod w1th chulcslt•rol, whtch r.nses your chance of heart attick. In fact. more Amencans m~· die by the fork than by any other weapon 
(}American Heart Association 
1NERE: FIGHTir-.G F(n \QJR LIFE 

page 4 The Observer Friday, September 25, 1992 
Hawaii 
continued from page 1 
said. 
The response by the gov­ernment to Hurricane Iniki was relatively quick, according to Delapena. 
"Troops were out helping just 
Masks 
continued from page 1 
use a celebrity. 
"Lou Holtz has done a lot to help Madison Center and the homeless" and "he readily agreed" to let the Center sell the masks, Roberts said. Holtz 
Feminism 
continued from page 1 
women," said Incandela. The panel agreed that when people think of feminists they usually picture radical feminists from the 1970s. 
"You are the third generation of women who can vote. Think 
Peace 
continued from page 1 
Smith suggested that peace 
a few hours after the Hurricane hit. I think people were more responsive to Iniki than they were to Hurricane Andrew," said Delapena. 
"But we still need all the help we can get," he added. 
Raffle tickets are $1 each or six tickets for $5. The tickets 
likes the masks and agreed to make a TV commercial for their sale, Roberts added. 
The masks are already on sale in the area and in each dorm. They may be purchased from each dorm's hall presi­dent. 
Several dorms will start selling the masks at their con­cession stands this Saturday for 
about •bat," said Clark. Clark added, "I think we have gone backwa -ds in the last ten years." Clark and Incandela agreed th 1t most young women do not r ~alize they are op­pressed UJltil they leave college. 
"My pr mary exposure to feminism I as been here [SMC]," said Inca tdela. "From what I've seen, enough women have been told lY enough men what 'ism' to be. • 
movements should organize training p ograms on develop­ing plans or foreign policy and finding w1 ys to gain publicity for peace IJtovements' agendas. 
According to Smith, the only 

Hthe press didn't tellus,whowould? 
To get printed information on the role of. l free press and how it protects your rights, or to discuss any free p -ess issue, call the First Amendment Center at 1-800-542-1600. 
A public service message ofThe Ad Council and T e Society of Professional Journalists. 
We're Making a Difj erence. 
Am4 •rican Heart r..ssociation 

~GIANT 
~ T~ Preci~ Right Choice! 
In the city... On the road... 
Or in the mountains... Giant® takes your eyelin.~ seriously. Giant bicycles are designed, enginet: red and crafted to be your precisely right choice. They're easy to ride. easy to enjoy a11d easy to afford...Let us help you choose the cne that fits your cycling needs. 
ONE OF MICHIANA'S LARGES r BICYCLE DEALERS... 

B R 1 G H ·r· s / 
CYCLING & FIT\JESS 
2720 LINCOLNWAY WEST MISHAWAKA, INDIAN,\ 46544 Phone: 255-89E.S ( l l /2 blocks east of Ire nwood.) 
r----------,r----------,
1 Deal # 1 I I Deal # 2 
I 10% off ~ I I =;;.=;:;. =;;.=.;;;.=.;;;.=.;;;.· : 
l!llll!llillliJI'IIiJI!IIill!lliiJ

I any helmet I I "!:"=<:-= "!:"=':=':=':=~ I I with · 1 1 1 1 new bike . I I :~Oo/o off I I purchase I I any o 1e tire & tube I 
10ne coupon per visit. Not valid 1 1 1
One ooupc ll per visit. Not valid 

l with o.th er promotions. I lwith other promotions. I 
L~~~~E~~~--~~~~~~~~!---~ 
will be sold at a concession stand by Hayes-Healy, spon­sored by the Hawaii Club, dur­ing the Purdue game and the following week Monday through Friday at both dining halls during dinner. All proceeds will go directly to the victims of Hurricane Iniki in Kauai for food, clothing, and recon­struction purposes. 
the Purdue game and during the following two home football weekends. The sale of the masks ends Friday, Oct. 30. 
Every person who buys a mask receives a ticket for an Oct. 31 raffle with prizes such as a seven-day Hawaiian vaca­tion, a Chicago Bulls-Indiana Pacers weekend basketball game, and a $500 shopping spree at Martin's Super Market. 
Klaucen and Young both shared how they discovered the feminist in themselves. 
"Feminism is the choice to question why," said Young. They discussed how many women commonly say, ''I'm not a feminist, but... " They en­couraged people to ask ques­tions and demand explanations. Said Young, "Discover your senses." 
hope to increase public input on foreign policy is to better edu­cate the public on status quo foreign policy. She said, "We need to be pro-active and go to the media." 
_,.___ 
-----=-­
SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, SEPT. 21 
1 
:55 a.m. Notre Dame Secu rlty and Notre Dame Fire responded to a report of a student suffering chest pains at Fischer Graduate Residences. The student was treated and then taken by ambulance to St. Joseph Medical Center. 

4 
:2 4 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of his book-bag from the South Dining Hall. 


4:40 p.m. A Sarin Hall resident reported the theft of his unlocked bicycle from the bike rack at his dorm. 
5:5 2 p.m. Notre Dame Security received a report that items had been taken from several lockers at the Band Building. 
TUESDAY, SEPT. 22 
9:15 a.m. Notre Dame Security received a report that a statue had been stolen from a grave at Cedar Grove Cemetery. 
9:3 5 a.m. Notre Dame Security responded to the report of a two vehicle accident on Lake Drive. No injuries were reported. 
1 0: 4 0 a.m. A Pasquerilla East resident reported the theft of her wallet in the library. The wallet was found but several valuables had been taken from it. 
11:.20 a.m. A University em· ployee reported the theft of her parking decal from her vehicle while the vehicle was parked in the B-1 parking lot 
3:00 p.m. A Saint Mary•s College resident reported the theft of her wallet from her book-bag while the book-bag was in the reference section of the Hesburgh Library. 
WED., SEPT. 23 
8:5 9 a.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a two car accident in the C-1 parking lot. No injuries were reported. 
1:30 p.m. AUniversityem­ployee reported the theft of her pa'rking decal from her unlocked vehicle while the vehicle was parked by the DeBartolo Building. 
2:09 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident reported the theft of his bicycle from a bike rack outside of his dorm. 
4:0 1 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported thai his walkman had been taken from his book-bag in the reference area of the Hesburgh Library. 
4:53 p.m. A Walsh Hall resident reported the theft of her change purse from her handbag while the handbag had been left in a study room at the Hesburgh Library. 
9: 3 5 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of her handbag from a classroom in Hayes-Healy. 
T/1. \)~ 01\ fJAf>..A.M ·' 
I'M STVPENIOVS MAN.' 

... We Agree 
Happy Birthday Stupendous s.s. 
God Bless You 
With Much Love, Mom & Dad, Chris, Nanas V. & H. 
BUSINESS LEADERSHIP IN THE ENVIRONMENTAL CRISIS 
SEPTEMBER 28 & 29, 1992 

9:00 AM International Paper 
10:45 AM Indiana-Michigan Power Company 
2:00 PM Texaco, Inc. 
3:45 PM 3M Company 
7:30 PM Stewart L. Udall Secretary of the Interior for Eight Years-Author of 
The Quiet Crisis 
9:00 AM 
10:45 AM 
Panelists: 

McDonald's Corporation 
Wrap-up Panel 
Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Jack Lorenz Izaak Walton League Patrick Noonan The Conservation Fund 
Gene Buchholz, Kimberly Gray, Ronald Hettenthal, Conrad Kellen berg, Patrick Murphy, Kenneth Sayre, S. Prakash Sethi, Stephen Silliman, Todd Whitmore 
Sponsort!d by the Notrt Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Valut'.r in Business, University ofNotre Damt. 
ALL SESSIONS WILL BE HELD IN THE AUDITORIUM, CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION. 
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 

Irish Foo~ball 

Evs. 
A Supplement to The Observer 


GAME NOTES 
KICKOFF: 12:35 p.m: EST. 
TV and RADIO:. NBC.\i:(Tont Hamm()nd, Cris Collinswo~th and John Dockery} will prQvide nation··. televisipn ·co·veragei MututJfit:Rad.i9 Network (Tony Roberts; Tom Pagna) will broadcast the gam~ to national radio audience•···. 7JJ! 
TICKETS: Notre Dame Stadiu {59,075l is sold out. 
RANKINGS: Notre Dame: AP 6th USA Today/CNN 6t}J';· Pur~'e} A,;· unranked, USA Today/CNN 
unranked. :•· ·~}l.k; 
THE SERIES: Notre DameJead · the serie.!:l;40<n·1 and h$ l'6St six meetings, 
THE LAST TIM~: N.otr~.;.Qlt ..•...··•· toppeQ. Purdue, 49~20. i~}Wes Lafayette. .· ·.· 
Freshman Paul F~lla $ . quarterback, but only pf on:· series, as Rick Mirer came .pff th bench to complete 12 ofl<t: paa~es. 
LAST WEEK: Notre Dame romped Michigan State; 52-31~ while ~J:dtf' was shocked by Toledo, 33..;29; • 
FYI: Rick Miter needs o:ij\t1Lmo touchdown pass to breal( Joe Theismann's career touchdown passes record: Mire.r tied th~ · 
of 31 last week · ·· ··. Notre Warne is ran]ted ·ation in totatofiense~ 
SCHEDULES 

" 
Getting a Kick Out of Life 
Hentrich and his knee are better than ever 
By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 

Craig 1-lentrich has always been a competitor, whether on the football field, baseball diamond or classroom. But when he blew out the knee on his kicking leg last season, no one knew what to expect. 
After all. this was a player who was named an honorable mention All­American after his sophomore season, in which he broke his own Notre Dame record for season punting average. 
Even more distressing, no one, even the team doctors, had ever seen a torn anterior cruciate ligament (ACL). the ligament which holds the front of the knee together, in a kicker's or punter's kicking leg. 
"That was the biggest crush I've ever had, athletically," said Hentrich. "It taught me that everything can end so suddenly." 
The injury originally occurred in the Tennessee game. After that point, Irish fans learned the value of solid special­teams play. Most will remember only the blocked kick at the end of the game, but Hentrich's loss was more pronounced on the punting end. 
Jim Sexton only managed an average of 31 yards on four punts in the second half, far short of Hentrich's 44.2-yard career average. This gave the already struggling Irish defense 13 yards less to work with, and made it that much easier for the Vols to score. 
Nevertheless, the season wasn't over for Hentrich. He had several weeks before the Sugar Bowl, and made the most of them. 
''I rehabbed before the Sugar Bowl," said Hentrich. "Everything was still wrong (structurally) with the knee, though with rehab and a knee brace, they thought I could still perform." 
In New Orleans, he kicked an extra­point after the first Irish touchdown of the game, and then the ensuing kick-off. But it was that play that caused the serious damage. After the kick-off, Hentrich was running down the field when the knee blew out on him. 
"We couldn't find anyone at all with a similar injury," said Dr. Willard Yergler, the team physician. "It needed to be fixed, but we didn't know what to expect after it was repaired." 
What laid ahead was a route that no other kicker had been down before. 
"The doctors were pretty optimistic and that made me feel better," he said. "I felt confident (that I'd get to kick again)." 
After the surgery came a great deal of work before he could do so. 
"We brought him along slowly," said Yergler. "We gave him plenty of time to heal. Every time you kick, you hyperex­tend your knee, and you take the chance of stretching it." 
As a result, Hentrich wasn't able to start kicking for six months after his surgery, but that time wasn't spent idly. 
"It was pure rehab, doing weights and calisthenics to strengthen it," he said. "I learned a lot, I'm stronger (physically and mentally) than ever before." 
Irish foes should take heed of his greater strength. If he keeps up his average, he'll finish with the longest punting average in Notre Dame history. 
"Craig is a great punter. He's done an excellent job," said assistant head coach Ron Cooper, who is in charge of handling the punt team. "He makes my job fairly easy. He's very consistent and fields bad snaps. 
"He knows what's going on with the coverage and where the pressure's coming from." 
But opponents have more to watch out for than just his kicks. A quarterback in high school, Hentrich can beat opponents on fakes as well, as he threw for a first down to Greg Davis in last year's Indiana game. 

On the other side of the ball in high school in Godfrey, Ill., Hentrich picked off 12 passes as a safety during his sopho­more and junior seasons. His talents spilled over to the baseball field, where he set a school record with 66 hits in a season while hitting .503 and helping his team to a second-place finish in Class A. 
"I wanted to play (baseball at Notre Dame) real bad. I'd lave to give it a try," said Hentrich, but responsibilities to the football team made that an impossibility. 
With that kind of all-around athletic talent, it should come as no surprise that Hentrich handles both punting and kick­ing duties for the Irish. In each of his first three seasons, Hentrich would have finished among the nation's leaders for punting average, except he did not have the necessary attempts to qualify. 
If Hentrich gets a chance to kick 18 more extra-points this season, he will be able to break Carlos Huerta's NCAA record for consecutive extra points made of 157. His 31 field goals tie him for third on the all-time Irish list, and he needs just eight points to break Dave Reeve's Notre Dame record for most points by a kicker (247). 
Given the Chicago Bears' recent decision to keep Chris Gardocki because he can both kick and punt, Hentrich's ability to do both well makes him even more valuable. 
"A big reason I was recruited was to kick and punt. When you're a kicker and a punter, when you can do both, it opens up a spot for somebody else," said Hentrich. "At Notre Dame, it's another person on the travelling team who could be important in the game." 
It could also be important for his future employment possibilities. With a degree in management information services, a job as a computer analyst lies ahead, but ma)We not immediately. 
"Professional football is the goal of any college football player," said Hentrich, "but I'nt not going to let that affect how I play this season. 
"I want to improve off last season, average 45 yards a punt, stress hang­time and become more consistent." 
The Notre Dame football team realized last season just how valuable Hentrich was to the team. Many games are won or lost on special teams, and with Hentrich in the line-up, the Irish have one thing less to worry about. 
page 2 Notre Dame vs. Purdue Friday, September 25, 1992 

Boilers need some straw inspiration 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
The question surrounding tomorrow's game is which Purdue team will show up, the one which crushed then 17th­ranked California, 41-14, two weeks ago or the squad which lost to Toledo last Saturday. 
Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz has no doubts about who the Irish will meet. 
"You can count on this-the Purdue team we see on Satur­day will be the one that knocked off California, not the one that lost to Toledo," the seventh-year coach stated. 
The key to Purdue's success will be its defense, which vir­tually shut down Heisman Tro­phy candidate Russell White, holding him to 79 yards rush­ing, in the win over Cal. 
Last week, however, without 
"Stopping the run is first and foremost." 
-Lou Holtz 

the inspiration of straw-chew­ing opponents, the Boilermaker defense surrendered 420 yards of total offense, 305 of which came in the air. 
To be successful against Pur­due, the Irish will have to once again have to air it out behind Rick Mirer and his talented re­ceiving corps. Mirer threw for 260 yards and three touch­downs last week against Michi­gan State. 
Tomorrow he will attempt to break Joe Theismann's Notre Dame record for most career touchdown passes, a mark Mirer tied last week. 
Purdue will depend on Out­land and Lombardi Trophy candidate Jeff Zgonina to put pressure on Mirer and keep the Irish passing game in check. 
"You know he (Zgonina) is going to put pressure on the passer," Holtz commented. "He provides an anchor for their defense." 
Zgonina will team with Eric Gray and James Cole, two sophomores, on the defensive line, while inside linebacker Eric Beatty leads an experi­enced group of linebackers, which contains three seniors. 
Beatty was Sports Illustrated's Defensive Player of the Week following a 20-tackle per­formance versus Cal. 
The fourth linebacker is red­shirt freshman Jim Maciag, who graduated from the same high school as Zgonina. 
The Purdue front season will face a Notre Dame offensive line which will be at full strength for the first time this season, as right guard Todd Norman returns from a preseason knee injury. 
The strength of the Purdue 
secondary is junior Jimmy Young, who was an All-Big Ten selection last season. But aside from Young, the Boilermakers' secondary is the weakness of its defense. 
Their task will not be made easier by Notre Dame's re­ceivers. Senior Ray Griggs re­turned from an ankle injury last week to bolster an already impressive bunch. Griggs, who caught three passes and scored a touchdown at Michigan State, will start at flanker and Lake Dawson will remain the Irish's starting split end. 
The Notre Dame backfield of Reggie Brooks and Jerome Bettis will need another big day to outplay its Purdue counter­part. Tailback Jeff Hill is one of the best in the Big Ten. 
"Jeff Hill is a very durable back, who has got good strength and quickness," Holtz explained. "He protects the ball very well and their offense is set up to take advantage of his talent." 
Hill enters the game averag­ing 5.9 yards per carry and was the Big Ten Player of the Week after rushing for 106 yards on 21 carries against the Golden Bears two weeks ago. 
Hill will be running behind fullback Houston Malden and a massive line which averages 280 pounds per starter and has not allowed a sack this season. 
"Stopping the run is first and foremost," Holtz said. 
Though Hill is a known-entity, the Purdue quarterback is not. Projected starter Eric Hunter was injured in preseason drills, and Matt Pike has filled in admirably, completing 50 percent of his passes for 337 yards in his two games as a starter. 
However, Hunter may or may not return this week. This uncertainty has caused a lot of problems in Notre Dame's game preparations. 
"It's like preparing for ghosts," Holtz commented. "Both present problems." 
But Holtz was especially praise-worthy of Huriter. 
"He reminds me of Roger Staubach when he was at the Naval Academy. The worst thing you can have happen is to get him in trouble. He can take a bad play and make it a good one. 
"He scrambles, he is quick and he has a strong arm," the seventh-year coach noted. 
Whether Hunter or Pike is calling the snaps, his main tar­get will be Ernest Calloway. The senior has led Purdue in receptions the past two years and tops the Boilers in the cat­egory once again this season. 
The Boilermaker offense should be able to put some points on the board against the Irish defense. Unfortunately for Purdue fans, Notre Dame will not emerge from the tunnel in straw hats, and the Air Holtz of­fense which was displayed in the 52-point explosion against Michigan State should be able to easily outscore the Boilers. 



NOTRE DAME vs.PURDUE STAFF 
Design: Mike Scrudato, Jenny Marten Lab Tech: Rolando de Aguiar Production: Melissa Cusack 





Friday, September 25, 1992 Notre Dame vs. Purdue page 3 
Skip Holtz did not plan to follow Lou 
By JIM VOGL 
!\ssistant Sports Editor 
Skip Holtz may be following in Derrick Mayes WR 6·0 205 Fr 47 Pete Bereich lB 6-1 237 Jr. his father's footsteps, but that leShane Saddler CB 5-10 194 Jr. 48 Renald(} Wynn DE 6-3 230 Fr. has not always been his in­
RickMirer OB 6·2 215 Sr. 48 DeswOOd Etsltty FS 5-11 180 Sr. tention. 4 lee Becton TB 5-H 190 So. 49 Anthony Peterson LB 6-0 223 Jr. 
Now Notre Dame's offensive

5 Paul Failla OB 6·2 193 So. 50 Greg Stec DT 6-2 250 So. 
OG coordinator/receivers coach,
6 Jerome Bettis FB 5-11 254 Jr. 51 Stuart Tyner 6-4 282 Sr. 7 Deanlytle FB 6-2 . 240 Jr. 52 Germaine Holden DE 6-4 245 So. the younger Holtz started out Jim Kordas 00 6-5
8 Clint Johnson SE 5-8 180 Jr. 53 271 So. Jn another path. He enrolled at 
9 Jeff Burris FS 6-0 204 Jr. 54 Justin G®een LB 6-2 226 So. 
Holy Cross Junior College, and
10 Adrian Jarrell Fl 6-0 194 Sr. 54 AndrewMims OT 6-2 270 Fr. 
in 1984, a year before his fa­
11 Tom MacDonald OB 5-11 175 So. 55 Oliver Gibson OT 6-3 275 .Jr, 12 Kevin Pendergast K 5-10 168 Sr. 56 Huntiey Bakich DE 6-2 217 So. ther was hired to coach the 13 Tom Carter CB 5-11 191 Jr. 56 Steve Armbruster c 6-0 205 So. 
Irish, he transferred into Notre 
13 Man Johnson OB 5-11 . 192 Sr. 57 Bernard Mannelly DT 6-4 270 Sr. 
Dame with visions of pursuing a
14 Ray Griggs SE 6-1 200 Sr. 56 JeremyNau DE 6-4 234 So. 
Skip Holtz 15 Kevin McDougal OB 6-2 190 Jr. 60 Adam Kane OL 6-3 238 Fr. "I wanted to be the ftlthy rich, and make it on my own," stated 16 Chris Parenli OB 5-11 193 Jr. 60 Ross Mihalko DE 6-1 215 So. Donald Trump-type," said Holtz, whose thorough 14 Stephen Pope FS 6-3 199 Jr. 59 lance Johnson c 6-1 2n Sr. business career. 
16 Joe Smith CB 6·0 175 Sr. 61 Tim Ruddy c 6-3 286 Jr. 
Holtz. knowledge of the game and
17 Brian Magee DB 5-11 195 Fr. 62 Mike McCullough DT 6-3 274 fr. 
16 Wade Smith OB 6-4 180 Fr. 63 Jason Beckwith 00 6-2 238 Jr. But by senior year, he "saw whose work ethic truly im­16 Stefan Schroffner K 5-9 160 So. 64 Steve Misetic OL 6-5 266 •·Fr•. the light at the end of the tun­pressed Florida State coach 19 Mark Swenson FL 5-8 152 Jr. 65 Lindsay Knapp OT 6-6 282 Sr. nel." He forecasted that an Bobby Bowden. After gradua­
19 Jim Guerrera OB 6-0 176 Sr. . 66 Todd Norman OG 6-6 297 Sr. 
eight-to-five desk job just tion, Holtz headed South and
20 Mark Andrzejewski ss 5-8 164 So. 67 Mark Zataveski OG 6-5 295 So. 
20 Lamar Guillory CB 5-9 190 Sr. 68 Jeff Riney c 6-4 268 So. wouldn't bring happiness. Only worked as a graduate assistant 21 Bobby Taylor DB 6-3 190 Fr. 69 David Quist DT 6-5 248 fr. coaching football could. on two of the finest Seminole 22 Shawn Wooden 70 Mike McGlinn OT 6-6 285 Jr.
FL 5-10 177 So. "I've been around the game football teams in history, as 
22 Rob Leonard K 6-1 186 Jr. 71 Herbert Gibson OT 6-5 289 So. 
my whole life. It held my inter­they finished 11-1 both years. 
23 Jeff Baker SE 5·11 183 Sr. 72 Ryan Leahy OT 6-4 290 So. 
23 LaRon Moore CB 5-9 ~177 So. 73 Justin Hall OT 6-4 304 Sr. ests. It's something I enjoy do­Holtz explained the not-so­24 Charles Stafford SE 5-10 176 So. 74 Will LyeU Ol 6-5 263 Fi. ing more than simply making glorious work of an "intern 25 Mike Lalli FS 5-11 201 Sr. 75 Aaron Taylor OG 6-4 299 Jr. money." coach." 
25 Brent Boznanski PK 6-4 185 Jr. 76 Jeremy Akers DT 6-5 272 Fr. 
So far, he has succeeded in "It involves all the behind the
26 Drew Marsh K 6-0 187 Jr. 77 Dusty Zeigler OL 6-6 240 Fr. 
26 Mark Monahan DB 6-0 180 Fr. 78 Jordan Halter OT 6-7 292 Sr. his journey, working his way scenes work coaches don't want 27 Tracy Graham ss 5-10 197 So. 79 Tyler Yo\Jng OL 6-4 275 So. back to Notre Dame in 1990 as to do." Under FSU receivers 27 David Fuentes FB 5-9 198 Jr. 80 Oscar McBride TE 6-5 251 Jr. a volunteer receivers coach, coach John Eason, he cut up
28 Craig Hentrich KIP 6-1 186 Sr. 82 William Pollard SE 6·4 226 Sr. 
before becoming full-time last films, broke down the
29 John Covington ss 6·2 211 Jr. 83 MikeMH!er FL 5-7 157 So. 
Mark Holdener TE year, and then adding the re­opponent's secondary, orga­
30 Nick Smith DE 6-2 229 Sr. 83 6-2 215 So. 
31 Demetrius DuBose LB 6-2 238 Sr. 84 lrv Smith TE 6-3 253 Sr. sponsibilities of offensive coor­nized work for the offense and 32 Willie Clark TB 5-10 185 Jr. 85 Robert Hughes TE 6-7 256 Jr. dinator this season. reviewing game tapes. 
33 Greg Lane CB S-9 180 Jr. 86 Ben Foos DT 6-3 226 Fr. 
But the younger Holtz never Holtz's responsibilities have
34 Ray Zellars FB 5-11 218 So. 86 Max Dieterle SE 5-11 170 So. 
87 Lake Dawson FL 6-1 202 Jr. rode his father's shirt-tails grown considerably since then.
35 Man Adams FB 6-0 235 Sr. 
36 Jeremy Sample LB 5·11 218 So. 88 Leon Wallace TE 6-3 268 Fr. along the way. He supervises the running and 36 Jim Argabright LB 5-10 215 So. 89 Karmeeleyah McGill DE 6-3 233 Sr. "I don't look at it from the passing games, sets practice37 Travis Davis FS 6-0 192 So. . 89 John Kouris TE 6-4 227 Fr. standpoint that he's my dad. schedules and organizes prac­
38 Rick lozano TB 5-10 189 Sr. 90 Brian Hamilton DT 6·3 275 Jr. 
38 Kevin Carretta 91 Anthony Jones DE 6-4 242 Fr. I'm just learning a lot about tice tempo, and works inte­
LB 6-1 212 Fr. 
39 Man Lahey CB 6-1 165 Sr. 91 Rich Sauget TE 6-4 218 So. football and I'm learning it from grally in developing a game 40 Reggie Brooks TB 5-8 211 Sr. 92 John Taliaferro DT 6-4 261 So. the best," he said. plan.
41 Joe Sabey LB 6-1 218 Fr. 93 Paul Grasmanis DT 6-3 265 Fr: 
He worked hard to earn him­While Lou Holtz calls all the
42 Alton Maiden DE 6-3 260 Fr. 94 Reggie Fleurima DT 6-3 262 So. 
43 BiiiWagasy 95 Junior Bryant DT 6-4 279 Sr. self a spot on the football team offensive plays on the field, his
LB 6-2 224 Fr. 
43 Tim Klusas TB 5-8 192 So. 96 Thomas Knoght DE 6-4 231 Fr. as a reserve flanker in 1986 "eyes in the sky", including Skip Jim Flartigan DT 6-2 276 Jr. Bryant Young DT 6-3 zn Jr. and made 51 appearances on Holtz, assistant head coach Ron Devon McDonald DE 6-4 241 Sr. Pete Chryplewici TE 6-5 233 Fr. special earning a
teams, Cooper, quarterbacks coach
John Lynch WR 6-2 165 Fr. Cliff Stroud DT 6-2 264 Fr. 
monogram. Holtz holds this as a Tom Clements and running
Brian Ratigan DE 6-5 231 Sr. 
key experience in his learning backs coach Earle Mosley study process. formations, coverages and 
"With memories of being a trends during the game and player still fresh in my head, I offer information and advice know what it's like to sit in from the skybox, so Lou can meetings and try to understand "plug the pieces into the the X's and O's. I also know that puzzle."
DEPTH CHARTS at a school like Notre Dame, Like any businessman who you're required to go to class." aspires to own his own com­That same year, he sent out pany, Skip Holtz would like to applications for the profession's further expand his horizons and entry level position. become a head coach some day.
When the Irish have the ball "The most important thing for But for now, he is content Probable starters in boldface. where he is.
me was to go somewhere else 
FLANKER SPLITEND 14-ftay Griggs 6-1,200, Sft. 87·Lai<e Dawson CORNERBACK 
Purdue's upset over Cal
10·AdrianJarrell6-0,194, SR TACKLE 6·1, 202. JR. 23-Thomas Adams 
8-Ciint Johnson 5·9, 182, SR.
Irish 
83·Michae,~M,IIer :~~~:r' :••PP
s-7. 157. so. 
5-8. 180, JR. 3·Brian Thurman 5·11, 203. SO.
· 7().Mike M~Giinn . 6-6, 285, JR. 
offense 
evokes memories of past 
, ~~5~~~G~~so' 
TAILBACK ~y ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Dame 25-21 the previous 
GUARD 

75-Airon Taylor ~sociate Sports Editor season, was led by quarterback
~~m~·s~~·u
4·Lee Becton . 
and captain Bob Griese. 3-fticll Mirer 6·2, 215, Sft 6-4, 251. so 
5·11. 190. so . QUARTERBACK ~tt~~y~~ng 
In recent years. Purdue has But Griese would not be able 
~t~~~n I .193, SO ' 
proved itself to be one of the to lead the Boilermakers to
6·2, 190, 

~weetest cream puffs on the another defeat of the Irish.
FULLBACK 
&-Jerome Bettis 
rish schedule, a tasty little Notre Dame, its defense led by
5·11, 254, JR. 
7·Dean Lytle 
~reat early in a season full of captain Jim Lynch and future 
6·2. 240. JR. 
34·Rav Zellars 
op 20 teams. NFL Hall-of-Farner Alan Page, 
5·11, 218, so. 
But this year, Purdue is one of held the potent Purdue offense 
~ 
he top squads on the Irish to its lowest output of the ~chedule. The Boilermakers (1-season in downing the Boilers 1} trounced 17th-ranked 26-14. !california, 41-14 in their The Irish went on to win the ~eason opener. The next week, 1966 national championship Ueff Sagarin's computer with a 9-0-1 record, while TACKLE FREE SAFETY lranldngs placed Purdue atop all Purdue finished the sesaon 9-2. 
73-J"'IIn Ha\15-4, 3114, SR. 29·Pat Johnson
u 6-1,197, Jft. jother college football teams. Two years later, Notre Dame 
72·Ryan Le~ay
6·4. 290. SO. • 28-Brian Lohman 6-2, 204, FR. 
Though the Boilers dropped a and Purdue met in a classic 
~..,..," 

m" 
33-29 decision to the Toledo matchup as the first-ranked !Rockets last Saturday, this Boilermakers traveled to South 

STRONG SAFETY 
!week's matchup hearkens back Bend to face the second-ranked 
35·1kee Dozier 
6-2. 223, so. 
o the days when the Purdue­Irish. 
37-Chad Buckland 
5·10. 186. SO. INotre Dame game deserved a But Purdue, employing the 
40-Jeff Zgonla 
6·2, 270, SR. !nationwide television audience. high-powered offensive scheme 
49-Jarrod Walker 6·5. 267. FR. 
In 1966, the Boilermakers, they had been unable to anked eighth and coming off of execute two years before.
TIGHTEND 84·1rv Smith 
CORNERBACK 

~ 42-3 thrashing of Ohio trounced the Irish 37-22. 
..... 5-3, 253, SR.

II 
80-0scar McBnde OUTSIDE LINEBACKER fi~~~':J. ~~~ng 
lennakers University in the season opener, But the Boilermakes suffered
, 6-5, 251. JR. «·Don Detwy 2·John Jackson 86·Leon Wallace 6·1, 233. SR. 5-8. 180. so. 
rame into Notre Dame Stadium two losses later in the 1968 
}l 6-3. 286. FR. Steve Powell defense 
o face the sixth-ranked Irish. season en route to a third-place 
I 
Purdue, who had beaten Notre Big Ten finish. 
l 
_j 
-·---­

r 
page 4 Notre Dame vs. Purdue Friday, September 25, 1992 
Taylor is larger than life 
By JENNY MARTEN knows that what remains for him to work on is Associate Sports Editor mostly mental work. His goal is to maintain his 
focus every day and keep his confidence up. Big would be an understatement. "I realize that I have the potential to be great, Standing at 6'4" and weighing in around 300 but my goal is to be the best. Right now, I don't 
pounds, Notre Dame junior Aaron Taylor is one of feel I'm where I'm capable of being or where I'll the more massive members of the Irish offensive be when I get out of here. 
line. "I have never played with perfect technique and But, how does someone get to be that size? been outmanned. I've only beaten myself," said Left tackle Lindsay Knapp has an explanation. Taylor. "He likes to eat a lot. Once at the Great Wall Emotional and aggressive on the tield, Taylor 
buffet, he just pulled his chair up to the buffet likes to get downfield to block for the backs and and started eating," said Taylor's offensive line make some hits. In the team sport, he relishes the mate. individual competition that results when a 
defensive lineman sets up opposite him. "A lot of ego is involved in lining up one and
"I realize that I have the 
one on someone with him trying to do his best against you. It's a realization of aggressiveness in 
potential to be great, but my a positive way," said Taylor. Another advantage in a one-on-one situation is goal is to be the best." knowing what the guy next to you is going to do and this comes from playing together. The projected 1992 five starting offensive linemen have yet to be on the field at the same time either -Aaron Taylor at practice or in a game. Even Taylor has missed time on the line already this year sitting out the Taylor doesn't know how he got to be the size two-a-day fall practices because of nagginghe is. but he attributes some of it to natural size tendinitis in his shoulder. and lifting weights. Credit could also be given to Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz would like to Taylor's mom, Mardi and her cooking. see his offensive line in full for many reasons, "She loves to cook and I love to eat," admitted and he will get the chance tomorrow when rightTaylor, who is from Concord, California. "I hate it guard Todd Norman returns from a preseason when I go home because I always gain weight. I knee injury. gained eight pounds when I went home before "I think the offensive line is one area where the Sugar Bowl last year. they have to learn to play next to the guy next to "No where in my family is anyone as remotely him. The guy on you isn't always the guy whose big as I am. It's like I'm a mutant. I was always there when the play is over, said Holtz. the biggest kid in the class." "There is a communication you have to have His size is an asset now as he enters his with people and it comes from doing it over and second year as a starter on the Irish offensive over and having a feel for it. Aaron Taylor and line. The left guard is expected to continue to Lindsey Knapp have a feel for it." improve and to become one of the best linemen to Taylor and Knapp have been playing together 
play for Notre Dame. Taylor's name has even on the line for two and a half years and have been mentioned as a preseason All-American become familiar with each other's moves. candidate. "When you've been with someone that long, you 
"He has ability, desire and football sense. He really know what he's going to do and what he has the talent to be an exceptional lineman for can do," added Knapp. us," said Irish offensive line coach Joe Moore. Playing together for so long should improve the "We expect him to be a great player, not just a play of not only Taylor and Knapp, but the entire good player." offensive line. 
Taylor wants to surpass these expectations, but 



JEFF ZGONINA JEFF HILL JIMMY YOUNG ERNEST CALLOWAY ERIC BEATTY 
Senior wideout has been Senior inside linebacker was 
The fifth-year senior nose Junior tailback was the Big­Junior cornerback made the Purdue's leading pass receiver named the Sports Illustrated 
guard is a candidate for the Ten Offensive Player of the All-Big Ten team last year after in the last two seasons. Last Defensive Player of the Week Lombardi Award and the Week after rushing for 106 intercepting six passes. He also week, Calloway caught three after the California game in Outland Trophy. Zgonina has yards on 21 carries and scoring led the Boilermakers in broken passes for 61 yards against which he made a career-high 20 297 career tackles and five two touchdowns against 
passes with eight. Toledo. tackles and a fumble recovery.
fumble recoveries. California. 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS (PLEASE, NO WAGERING) 
are compiled as to how each Jim Vogl Jenny Marten Dan Wagner Mike Scrudato Allesar Rich Kurz Rolando de person does against the spread. Assistant Associate The Leprechaun South Bend Associate Aguiar
Sports EditorHome teams are in CAPS. 

Sports Editor Sports Editor Last week's Tribune Sports Editor Associate
20-22-0

22-20-0 21-21-0 guest: 8-6-0 20-22-0 17-25-0 Sports Editor 
BOST. COL. 13 over Mich. St. 
13-29-0 

MICHIGAN 18 over Houston 
Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles
PENN ST. 18.5 over Maryland 
Wolverines Wolverines Cougars Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines 
Rutgers 21 over NAVY 

Terps Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions 
UCLA 6 over San Diego State 
Scarlet Knights Midshipmen Midshipmen Scarlet Knights Midshipmen Midshipmen Midshipmen
MIAMI 28 over Arizona 

Aztecs Bruins Aztecs Aztecs Aztecs Aztecs Bruins 
TENNESSEE 23 over Cincy 
Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Wildcats 
Byu 1.5 over HAWAII 

Vols Vols Vols Vols Vols Vols Vols 
Clemson 4 over GA. TECH 

Cougars Cougars Cougars Cougars Rainbows Rainbows 'I Rainbows 
COLORADO 7.5 over Iowa 

Yellow Jackets Tigers Yellow Jackets Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers
VA. TECH even West Virginia 
Hawkeyes Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes 
NEBRASKA 17 over Ariz. St. 
Mountaineers Mountaineers Hoakies Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers Hoakies 
N. CAROLINA 2 over NC State 
Huskers Huskers Huskers Huskers Huskers Huskers Sun Devils 
NOTRE DAME 25 over Purdue 
Wolfpack Wolfpack Wolfpack Wolfpack Tar Heels Wolfpack Tar Heels Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Boilermakers Boilermakers 

The Observer Friday, September 25, 1992
page 5 
~~::::~~'~·411~4.·=m=a•:•;•;A;v·~·;••;b;'•iiiiiiii~~========:::~--A~~ss11o11c11ia11ti11o~n.=:_threatened 
Senate overrides veto of the family-leave bill 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate voted Thursday to override President Bush's veto of the family leave bill, shining a campaign-season spotlight on an issue Democrats think will wound him come Election Day. 
Supporters of the legisla­tion conceded that even with the Senate's 68-31 vote, a House override effort will probably fail. Nonetheless, Democrats relished the high­profile chance to contrast Bush's opposition to the bill with his rhetoric cham­pioning "family values." 
"Those Republicans who voted with us today chose families," said Senator AI Gore, D-Tenn., Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Clinton's running mate. "Those who voted with the Bush-Quayle position chose to say, 'Read our lip-service to family values."' 
The measure would re­quire businesses with 50 or more employees to grant workers up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave each year to care for newborn babies or 
HANSHAUS 
U4J i. Macbap.u . loucb a.nd • -''1-~;a 

The South Side's Finest Eating and Drinkinc 
Establishment 
Before and after the game, the new owners welcome you 
to Old World German atmosphere. ~~etrtho 5 and Ba:nqu•t 
Over 100 Master Artists.•• 
Bier~udt Klce Rcmbnndt Bolch l...awrec Rcmingtm Brueghel Mogrine Renoir Chagall Matisse Rousseau Dali Miro Salta! 
Monet Utrillo 
o·K..,re Von Gogh 
Picasso vcrmea' 

100~'1 & 
Notre Dame Room (2nd floor) LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
3 PRINTS FOR ONLY $17! 
sick family members. 
Meanwhile, the Senate marked time on a wide­ranging tax bill and a host of House-Senate conference committees labored to reach agreements on the various spending bills for the new budget year starting Oct. 1. 
The veto fight is one of several over social and con­sumer issues that Congress is picking with Bush in the waning weeks of the cam­paign. Others will be waged over abortion rights and ca­ble television rates. 
Majority Leader Richard Gephardt. D-Mo., said the House will vote next Wednesday on the override attempt. But supporters and opponents alike said they expect the House to uphold Bush's veto. The House ap­proved the bill by 253-177 last November -well short of the 289 votes, a two­thirds margin, that would be needed if all 433 members vote. 
"It is difficult," said House Speaker Thomas Foley, D­Wash. 

Three Navy admirals lose jobs for poor scandal investigation 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Acting Navy Secretary Sean O'Keefe stripped three admirals of their jobs on Thursday for failing to investigate aggressively the Tailhook sex abuse scandal and said that those who harass women "will be driven from our ranks." 
In a sometimes emotional appearance before reporters, O'Keefe vowed to "get to the bottom" of the affair, which has haunted the Navy for more than a year. 
"Sexual harassment will not be tolerated," he said. "And those who don't get the mes­sage will be driven from our ranks." 
O'Keefe defended his top aide, Undersecretary Dan Howard, against criticism contained in a report issued Thursday by the Pentagon's Inspector General. 
Two of the admirals said the report was wrong. 
The report faulted the three admirals and Howard -and said their removal from office should be considered -for fail­ing to investigate aggressively the alleged abuse of more than two dozen women at a Las Ve­gas aviators' convention in 1991. 
O'Keefe said Howard had been given an "impossible task" and had, in effect, become a "referee" iri a botched 
DoesYourHeartGood. 
AmericanHeart 

investigation. Howard per­formed as well as possible and the failure was not his, but that of the officials and officers re­porting to him, O'Keefe argued. 
A second -and potentially even more explosive -report by the Inspector General deal­ing with possible criminal charges stemming from the incident is due out in December. 
The report said "lurid" sexual behavior had taken place at the annual convention at least as far back as 1985 and naval leadership had done nothing to stop it. 
At his news conference, the secretary announced: 
• 
Rear Adm. Duvall M. Williams, the one-star com­mander of the Naval Investiga­tive Service, which handles criminal inquiries, will be re­placed with a senior civilian. 

• 
Rear Adm. John Gordon, the Navy's two-star judge advocate general and its chief legal officer, will be replaced. 

• 
Rear Adm. George Wash­ington Davis, the Navy's In­spector General, will be reas­signed after the Senate con­firms his replacement. 


The Inspector General's re­port asked O'Keefe to consider "appropriate disciplinary ac­tion" for Gordon and Williams. The secretary said he'd not yet made any such decisions. 
A Navy source, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the two had been put on "terminal leave." That means they may be permitted to retire in their current grade. Because all retirements of flag officers must be confirmed by the Se­nate, however, the lawmakers could have a say in the final disposition of the two admirals. 
Williams, in a statement is­sued through his office, lam­basted the report. 
"I decided to retire because I believe it to be fundamentally unfair that I could be tried, convicted and sentenced by the DOD IG without due process in a report containing so many inaccuracies and distortions," Williams said, adding the "process in which we are now involved does a terrible disser­vice to the U.S. Navy." 
Gordon, in a separate state­ment, also faulted the Inspector General's report, calling it "flawed and factually inaccu­rate." Gordon said he will "do everything I can to set the record straight," but didn't say how. 
Davis did not immediately re­spond to a request for com­ment. 
NEH report: campuses 
by politics 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The head of the National En­dowment for the Humanities on Thursday criticized col­lege professors who try to stop students from express­ing unpopular or biased opinions. 
In a report to Congress, NEH Chairman Lynne Ch­eney warned of the dangers of substituting political advo­cacy for the traditional idea that teaching and learning are about "seeking evidence, evaluating it critically, (and) weighing conflicting opinions -about trying to tell what is true." 
Cheney, who discussed the report at the National Press Club, acknowledged that col­lege campuses are not satu­rated with professors who become political activists pressing their views on stu­dents. 
But she stressed "colleges and universities in every part of the country have been affected." 
As an example, the report cited two professors who ar­gue that since all historical writing is propaganda any­way, it should be judged not by its faithfulness to the past but by "its political utility." It also quoted Mari Matsuda of the University of Hawaii, who argued that freedom of speech deserves only selec­tive protection, defended mainly for women and mi­norities. 
"In some quarters, there is no longer any question of whether to use the class­room for political purpose; the only question is how most effectively to do so," said Cheney. 

~----------~--'-----=-.o--~---__j 
page 6 The Observer Friday, September 25, 1992 
Sixth round House votes to limit talks end in nuclear weapons tests 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The administration veto threats. House voted overwhelmingly
Middle East 
Thursday to reverse President But a senior Republican Bush's policy on nuclear source said the White House
WASHINGTON (AP) -Israelis weapons testing, imposing strict had abruptly decided Thursday
and Arabs concluded a sixth conditions on the underground to reverse course and acceptround of peace talks Thursday, blasts and ending them entirely the restrictions -in parthaving finally "dived into deep 
in 1996. because Democrats hadwater" of negotiations. The 
On a vote of 224-151, attached them to a bill that also
rhetoric was hopeful, but 
lawmakers adopted a Senate contains money for a massiveneither side appeared ready for provision that had been the science project in Texas. a statesignificant concessions. 
subject of earlier essential to Bush's re-election. 
Negotiators agreed to con­vene a seventh round on Oct. The words we live by. 21 in Washington, to last as 
long as this one -one month, 1HE CONSTITUTION 
with a week off for consulta­
The words we live by
tions at the beginning of November. 
"We believe the parties have achieved a good foundation for future progress," said Assistant Secretary of State Edward Djerejian. 
"There was a different and 
''Happy

more cordial tone between the parties," he told reporters, summing up the sixth round. "The parties are definitely 
Birthday

grappling with the tough key issues of territory, peace and security." 
Stacy!''

On the plus side, Israel and Syria worked together on a joint statement defining the 
Love, 

principles of their talks; Israel and the Palestinians began work on an agreement granting The Observer/Sue Kehias Mom&Dad 
self-government to the 1. 7 Celebrating the sesquicentennial 
million Palestinians under Is­
Senior Heather Rakoczy was the lector at the College of Arts and
raeli occupation. On the minus side, Israel and 
Letters sesquicentennial mass on Thursday. Father Thomas Blantz 
Syria failed to reach agreement on the document, saying major differences persisted. And the Palestinians left here bitter about Israel's refusal to stop Jewish settlements and alleged human rights abuses in the territories it occupies. 
"This period has been very useful as an exploratory pe­riod," said Palestinian spokeswoman Hanan Ashrawi. But, "the areas of agreement remain very minimal." 
presided at the mass. 

IRISH EXPRESS 
Your Football Weekend Outlet 
Dooley Room • LaFortune Student Center • 239-8128 
Hours: 
for an Israeli withdrawal from the Golan Heights. 
Bring this coupon to Little Professor and receive 
$1 OFF 
a purchase of $5 or more or... 
$20FF 
a purchase of $10 or more or... 
$30FF 
a purchase of $15 or more. 
One dbcount selection~ customer; otfft VI lid only on regul•rly-priced books in stod:; and not valid with other dbcounl5. 
~BLITTLE PROFESSORR 
~~J OOK CENTE . 
We help you {i11d books you'll/ave. 
Ironwood Plaza North • near the New Martin's State Road 23 at Ironwood • South Bend 277-4488 • Mon.-Sat.: 10:00-9:00 • Sunday: 10:00-5:00 

Friday 12-9 p.m. 
Still, Israeli spokesman Yossi Gal said, "It's our belief that peace in the Middle East is be­
Saturday 8 a.m.-9 p.m. 
corning less a matter of con­tention and more a matter of time." 
Sunday 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 
Negotiations with Syria, at least, appeared stuck on the same dispute that has bedev­iled them from the start. Israel 
VISA • MASTERCARD • DISCOVER 
wants to know what kind of peace Syria will offer in return 
ACCEPTED! 
ND-SMC 
Students 
20th Annual Summer Program 
LONDON  ROME  
May 19, June 18  June 13, July 12  
ravel in Ireland,  Travel in France,  
cotland, and France  Germany, and  
Switzerland  

Courses offered in BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, NURSING, EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN, MUSIC 
MEETING Monday Oct. 5 
6:30 p.m. Carroll Hall, SMC • Free pizza Past students and faculty participants will be present 
For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
Attention Students! 
NBD Bank has 

you need! 

• 
No-Fee Checking and Savings Accounts •Loans 

•Computer 
Banking with NBD Express •AlMs 

• 
Extended Banking Hours 


Visit N BD Bank located a few blocks from the Notre Dame campus. 

NBD Bank 18083 S.R. 23 North 273-1280 
@-­
UHOfll

Member FDIC 
-----~--~-~ 
Friday, September 25, 1992 
The Observer page 7 
Peruvian rebel chieftain promises continued war 

Interacting with technology 
Students take advantage of the computer cluster in DeBartolo Hall. to students at numerous campus locations. 

LIMA, Peru (AP) Speaking from a cage in prison pinstripes, the cap­tured chief of the Shining Path rebel movement on Thursday called bis arrest a "bend in a long highway" that would not stop leftist revolution in Peru. 
The speech before about 300 journalists at a down­town police building was the first time the legendary Abimael Guzman, 57, had been seen in public since he went underground in the 1970s. Guzman was cap­tured Sept. 13 at a Lima safe-house. 
The bearded, bespectacled 
The Observer/Sue Kehias 

Guzman was dressed in a black-and-white striped prison uniform that authori­
Computer clusters are available 
ties apparently hoped would make him appear as a 
Shelling stalls power restoration in Sarajevo 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -Shelling frus­trated U.N. soldiers' attempts Thursday to restore electrical power that was knocked out three days earlier to 80 percent of the Bosnian capital. 
In neighboring Croatia, the United Nations' chief civilian officer warned Croatian officials-­not to begin returning refugees to the easternmost of four U.N. protection zones, saying that Serb militias were still menac­ing civilians. 
Cyrus Vance and Lord Owen, the envoys leading the ongoing Yugoslav peace conference in Geneva, said they would fly to Banja Luka on Friday to inves­tigate similar reports of intimi­dation around the Serb stronghold in northern Bosnia. 
Serb fighters who want to remain tied to Serbia and Montenegro, the remaining republics in Yugoslavia, have captured .two-thirds of Bosnia. At least 10,000 people have been killed since Bosnia's Mus­lim and Croats voted Feb. 29 for independence from Yugoslavia. 
Shelling began Wednesday 

morning as a team of engineers left U.N. Protection Force headquarters in an armored car for the damaged electricity station north of the city at Ugorsko. They made no progress on repairs. 
Sarajevo has suffered from irregular electricity and water supplies for much of its nearly six-month-long siege by Serb forces. Only about 20 percent of the city of 400,000 residents has had power since shells slammed into the Ugorsko power substation Monday night. 
Former East German spy chief indicted on 
charges of treason, bribery and espionage 

Steph Hope 
This Birthday 
Keeps You 
"Like A Virgin"! 

AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL MEETING 
Sunday, September 27 8:00p.m. 
Montgomery Theatre LaFortune 

BERLIN (AP} -Markus Wolf, a leading figure in Cold War in­trigue who directed 4,000 Communist agents as East German spy chief, has been in­dicted on treason, bribery and espionage .charges, Germany's chief prosecutor announced yesterday. 
The exploits of Wolf, 69, are the stuff of legend and include the supervision of one operative 
' 
BRUNO'S PIZZA 
~Jg!l
·~ 
ir.~
~ 

whose unmasking led to the fall nearly two decades ago of former Chancellor Willy Brandt. 
During the height of the Cold War, Wolf had about 2,000 agents in West Germany. Most of the rest were scattered in other NATO countries. 
He joins a growing list of former East German officials being brought to trial in the aftermath of the 1990 German 
Made from scratch Italian Pizza and Pasta 
Call for Reservations 288-3320 
•Banquet Rooms Available • 
GO ND!! BEAT PURDUE!! 

Li111011~iuc ~:,. Pril'tllt' Tnlll~jlt•rltllitlll St•rrricc A,·,ul.lhil' For llu~im·~~ N Stll.·i,\1 Ell~.l~l'llWI\l!­
{2/9) 27.3-1294 ?a~ (219) 271-0442 
P.O. Box 109 • Noire Dc1mc, IN 46556-0llllJ 
Very Reasonable Rates: $5.00 Anywhere within city limits $25. 00 per hour Fully Equipped Vans w/Color Tv, VCR and Stereo 8 person capacity "Two vehicles for price ofone" Lower than cab rates 
common criminal. 
He spoke for seven min­utes from a specially built 25-by-1 0 foot cage. sur­rounded by dozens of po­licemen with automatic ri­fles. Sentinels were posted on surrounding rooftops. 
Pacing the cage and re­peatedly thrusting his right fist into the air, Guzman called his capture "a bend in a long highway." 
"There are those who see this as a great defeat," Guzman said. "They are dreaming. Let them dream." 
Guzman said Maoism, the variant of Communism that he espouses, was gaining ground and eventually would emerge victorious in the im­poverished nations of the Third World. 
unification. 
The prosecutions are being questioned in some quarters, however, by people who argue that East Germany was essen­tially treated as a sovereign state by West Germany although not formally recog­nized. 
Ousted East German Com­munist boss Erich Honecker is expected to go on trial in November on manslaughter charges stemming from the deaths of people who tried to escape to the West. 
In announcing the indictment of Wolf from his office in Karl­sruhe, chief federal prosecutor Alexander von Stahl said inves­tigators are still gathering evi­dence against the former spy chief. 
Von Stahl said one spy in the employ of Wolf was Guenter Guillaume, whose discovery brought down the Brandt gov­ernment in 1974. Guillaume had been one of Brandt's ad­visers. 
Von Stahl listed 11 other well­known cases he said· Wolf was involved in. The operatives listed read like a "Who's Who" of prominent East German spies caught in the West. 
One of them is Klaus Kuron, who acted as an East German spy while working in West Germany's chief counterintelli­gence agency. 
Wolf was arrested on his re­turn to Germany just one year ago, on Sept. 24, 1991, after fleeing to Moscow to avoid prosecution. He was freed 10 days later and is believed to be living in former East Berlin. 
Hans-Juergen Foerster, spokesman for the chief federal prosecutor's office, said Wolf faces a maximum penalty of 15 years in prison if convicted. 
-~-------~~---------~-~­
page 8 The Observer Friday, September 25, 1992 





r-------------------------, r-------------------------,
I FRI SAT SUN I I MON TUES WED I : Sept 25 Sept 26 Sept 2 7 : : Sept 28 Sept 29 Sept 30 : 
: Buy Any Large Pizza For: : Free 2 Liter of Coke with : 
I I I I 
: The Price of a Small : : every $595 Late Night : 



: (Limit 4) : : Special Order : 
L-------------------------~ L-------------------------~ 
ND Football Special 
Every I I ime I I he Irish Score a I I'D, the 1st 10 Callers· to Call and Say "Notre Dame Scored", Buys 1 Large Pizza and Gets 1 FREE 
NEW EXTENDED HOURS 
M,Wed ,ll:OOam ,1:00am Thur, I 1:00am, 2:00am Fri,Sat,11 :OOam, 4:00am Sun, Noon,. 1:00am 

~ 
I i 
i f_ 
~---...._-----~~~-----~---­
-----------~--~--~----------------­
Friday, September 25, 1992 The Observer Page9 
First-time claims by jobless for benefits rose in Sept. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The number of Americans filing first-time claims for jobless benefits rose to 414,000 in mid-September, the highest level in five weeks, the gov­ernment reported yesterday. 
The Labor Department said the 15,000 increase during the week ended Sept. 12 was due in part to more new claims by the victims of Hurricane Andrew in South Florida and Louisiana. 
It was the first time in ·five weeks that claims totaled more than 400,000. Although claims for the week ended Sept. 5 initially were reported to have to­taled 400,000, they were revised down to 399,000 in the latest report. 
Claims had plunged by a record 91,000, to 383,000, during the week ended Aug. 15, falling below 400,000 for the first time since they to­taled 382,000 during the week of Oct. 6, 1990. 
But they started back up the following week, rising to 386,000, and to 394,000 during the week ended Aug. 29 b"efore hitting 399,000 during the week ended Sept. 5. 
Because of the volatility of the weekly reports, many analysts prefer to track a four-week moving average of claims which smooths out the erratic changes and is considered a more reliable indicator of the labor mar­ket. 
The average was 398,250 during the period ended Sept. 12, up from 390,500 a week earlier when it dipped to the lowest since 387,250 during the period ended Oct. 6, 1990. The average was 409,250 during the period ended Aug. 29. 
The department cautioned that recent claims numbers probably are being held down artificially by some claimants using a special emergency unemployment program that is not counted in the weekly release. 

We Love You. 
Mom, Dad, Steve & "Lucky" 
Consumers·' caution keeps economic growth anemic 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The economy grew at a slightly less anemic rate than first thought in the April-June quarter, but new claims for unemployment benefits rose in mid-September for the fourth week in a row, the government said Thursday. 
Consumer caution held the seasonally adjusted advance in the gross domestic product to an annual rate of 1.5 percent in the second quarter, the Com­merce Department said, revis­ing its previous estimate of 1.4 percent. 
Separately, the Labor De­partment said 414,000 Ameri­cans filed applications for unemployment during the week ended Sept. 12, an increase of 15,000 partly attributed to claims from victims of Hurricane Andrew. It was the fourth consecutive rise. 
Analysts expected the mostly gloomy economic news to con­tinue between now and the Nov. 3 Presidential election. 
"I can't see how the impres­sion could possibly change be­fore the election," said economist Paul Boltz of T. Rowe Price Associates in Baltimore. "George Bush is stuck with (talking about) family values at this point." 
Next week, the Labor De­partment reports on Septem­her's unemployment rate. Many economists fear the end of a federal summer jobs program for teenagers and job losses from the hurricane will cause an increase from the 7.6 percent August rate. 
On Oct. 27, only a week be­fore Election Day, the govern­ment releases its first estimate of GDP in the July-September period. In advance, economists were expecting at best a modest improvement compared with the second quarter. 
"What the numbers show is the economy is not particularly buoyant," said Paul Lally of 
R.H. Wrightson & Associates in New York. "We're still strug­gli~~ to get our head above wa­ter. 
He noted that much of what growth existed in the second quarter came from an un­wanted buildup in inventories as consumers cut back on pur­chasing. Retailers with well­stocked shelves probably will order fewer goods in the third quarter, detracting from growth, he said. 
The second quarter perfor­mance followed a moderate in­crease of 2.9 percent at an an­nual rate in the first three months of the year. That's considered poor for just after a recession but it still was the best growth since the early months of the Bush administra­tion. 
American consumers, whose spending accounts for roughly two-thirds of all economic activ­ity, were behind the slowdown. Their spending edged down 0.1 percent in the second quarter after spurting 5.1 percent in the first. The decline encompassed a 2.1 percent drop for durable goods -big ticket items such as autos and appliances. 

Officer: U.S. 'didn't have the stomach' to fight over possible unreleased POWs 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The top military officer at the end of the Vietnam War told a Senate panel Thursday that the nation "didn't have the stomach" to resume fighting over possible unreleased POWs after peace had been negotiated. 
Admiral Thomas Moorer, who was chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff from 1970 to 197 4, said it was po­litically impossible for Presi­dent Nixon to reopen the war in 1973 on the uncon­firmed possibility that not all Americans had been re­
~ 

STUDENT EXCHANGES Jr 
at 

Clark Atlanta University in Atlanta, Georgia 
and 

Xavier University of Louisiana in New Orleans, Louisiana 
Spring 1993 

Informational Meeting Tuesday September 29, 1992 7:00 p.m. 
Montgomery Theatre LaFortune Student Center 
ALL N D JUNIORS WELCOME 
turned from Laos. 
At that time, in 1973, Nixon had concluded peace talks with the North Viet­namese. The government of Laos was not represented in the negotiations. Also, Nixon was preparing to hold wel­coming ceremonies for U.S. POWs released under those Paris peace accords. 
"We would have had to go to Laos ... and physically sweep out the whole area," Moorer said. 
''We didn't have the stom­ach for it. We didn't have the will," Moorer said, adding later that he referred to the nation as a whole, not just military and Nixon adminis­tration officials. 
Moorer testified before the Senate Select Committee on POW-MIA Affairs as it held a third day of hearings with former military and Nixon administration officials from two decades ago. 
Some former officials have testified there was reason to believe that more Americans than the nine eventually re­leased from Laos had been held in that country as a re­sult of the fighting in South­east Asia. 
Former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger also ac­knowledged the possibility there may have been more living Americans in Laos, though he denounced as "a flat-out lie" the allegation 
U.S. officials knowingly abandoned Americans there. 
Committee Chairman John Kerry, D-Mass., said, "The evidence is overwhelming to the committee there is a gap between stated public policy at that time and reality." 
In a just-released deposi­tion to the committee, Moorer was questioned about orders he issued in March 1973 to delay with­drawing the final U.S. troops in Vietnam until a full ac­counting of rows had been provided. One day later, Moorer reversed those orders. 

SWEETSPOT RACQUET SHOP •prtnce·Everything you need in racquet sports. W~on Everything. Restring with PdiiCIJ· synthetic Reg. $20°0 Now $15°0 301 E. Day Road ~ I 258-4268 ~Day ~ •  

page 10 The Observer Friday, September 25, 1992 
Detroit teachers defy judge's order to return to work 
DETROIT (AP) -Most of De­troit's 10,500 teachers defied a judge's order to go back to work Thursday, and picketed noisily outside schools. 
Negotiations to end the 3 1/2­week-long strike resumed. 
Teachers said they were willing to stay on the picket line as long as it takes to win a con­tract, even thoJ.Igh school was to have started Aug. 31. The strike has prolonged summer vacation for Detroit's 168,000 students. 
"We need to recall the board," Terry Bagwell, one of about 30 teachers marching outside George Washington Stark Elementary School, said, adding that she believed the teachers would prevail. "This is a union town." 
Wayne County Circuit Judge Robert Colombo Jr. on Tuesday ordered the teachers to return to work under a contract that expired in June. 
The Detroit Federation of Teachers and schools began bargaining Thursday morning for the first time since Sunday, schools spokesman Steve Wasko said. 
The sides disagree over wages and the rules of "empowerment," a plan that would put more authority and autonomy in individual schools. 
The city already has some schools operating under the plan, where teachers, students and principals together work out their schools' problems and needs. 
The teachers also have asked for an 8 percent raise; the dis­trict offered a 3 percent bonus tied to teachers' attendance at staff workshops and seminars. Detroit's teachers with a bache­lor's degree start at $27,000 a year, earning .$41,000 after 10 years. 
Union officials said teachers were reporting to work at a rate of one to two per 75 people not reporting or picketing. Wasko said officials would know Friday how many teachers reported for work. 
Wasko said school officials would consider going back to the judge to seek a contempt-of­court order. If found in con­tempt, he could jail people who ignore the back-to-work order or fine the union. 
In 1973, Detroit teachers ig­nored a similar court order. While no strikers were jailed, the union was assessed fines that eventually totaled 
$209,000, plus $2.5 million damages. Those fines were forgiven after the strike was settled in mid-October. 
Some of the teachers who generally support the strike expressed uncertainty about the empowerment plan. 
"It's just the general fuzziness of what empowerment means," said Dennis Kevonian, an English teacher at Finney High School who was on the picket line. "If we had an easily understood plan, it'd be OK. I'd welcome a chance to do the things I wanted to do. 

Facing a financial crisis, mayor clashes with union 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Mayor Ed Rendell, whose city teetered on bankruptcy three times under his predecessor, faced his first major crisis only months after he took office. 
With municipal workers threatening to strike, he de­cided Wednesday to practice brinksmanship: He imposed a new contract with concessions on the 15,000 employees. 
"This isn't a battle to protect the rich people as some of the unions have suggested," h.e said. "This is a fight for our future." 
It's a fight facing financially squeezed mayors across the country. 
Union attorneys went to court Thursday in an attempt to stop the city from implementing the terms, and the City Council and Civil Service Commission met to begin the process of imple­menting what Rendell called his "last, best" offer to the workers. 
The unions also ordered their members to go to work Thurs­day while the legal battle con­tinues. A hearing is scheduled next week on the unions' claim that implementation of Ren­dell's conditions violates state labor law. 
The conditions include a four­year contract with small wage increases in only the third and fourth years, a reduction in sick leave and paid holidays, and more management control of work rules and job descriptions. 
"I don't think there can be any labor trouble if I'm asking the courts for a ruling," said James Sutton, head of District Council 33 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. The council represents the 11,000 blue-collar workers. 
Without the $99 million sav­ings the contract represents, and without other cash-saving moves Rendell has proposed, the city would face a deficit of $248 million this year. 
Under the administration of his predecessor, W. Wilson Goode, the city posted deficits for four ye·ars in a row. By summer 1991, the city's bonds had fallen to junk level on Wall Street, forcing the city to agree to the creation of a state over­sight board that would sell bonds in its place. 
While campaigning, Rendell said he was willing to risk a strike to get a grasp on labor costs, told city residents that they no longer could look to Harrisburg or Washington, D.C., for a bailout, and promised not to raise taxes or cut services. 
Upon taking office in January, he took a 5 percent pay cut, ordered the same for his top deputies, and forged a working relationship with a council that often had battled Goode and re­fused to act as the city headed into financial ruin. 
And he led a group of people in a cleaning of City Hall, posing f{)r a much-publicized pho­tograph that showed him scrubbing a rest room. 
In March, he unveiled a five­year financial plan that was re­quired before bonds could be sold on behalf of the city. 
Rendell has estimated that the plan, which included a basic reorganization of city gov­ernment and major labor con­cessions, including a four-year wage freeze, would save the city $1 billion over five years. 
"The city has reached a criti­cal point," said Michael John­ston, an analyst for Moody's Investor Service Inc. in New York. 

Man opens fire in Calif. courthouse and kills one before being arrested 
SAN BERNARDINO, Calif. a child custody battle, wit­The 200 to 250 courthouse 
(AP)  - A gunman opened  nesses said. Several children  workers remained on their  
fire and killed a man in the  were in the area at the time  jobs.  
San  Bernardino  County  of the shooting; no other in­ Visitors to the courthouse  
courthouse Thursday as by­ juries were reported.  60 miles east of Los Angeles  
standers  in  the  hallway  "All of a sudden you just  are not screened by metal  
scurried for cover, authori­ heard  a  big bang and  I  detectors, which are in place  
ties said.  looked up, I mean, it was  in many courthouses in the  
Witnesses  heard  three  fast. You could see the fire  country.  
shots fired and soon after­ and the gun went off two  
ward police arrested Lynn  more times and I saw a per­ Use of metal detectors has  
Waller,  30,  of  San  son fall. Everybody ran,"  been  considered  several  
Bernardino, said police de­ said witness Connie Simp­ times, said Fea Herrick, di­ 
partment spokeswoman Sh­ son.  rector  of court services,  
errie Guerrero. But it was  The gunfire erupted mid­ adding that searches have  
unclear if he was the gun­ morning on the third floor in  been used only during spe­ 
man. Police also recovered a  the hallway outside Superior  cial cases.  
weapon, but didn't immedi­ Court. Dozens of people in  
ately say what type.  the corridor dropped to the  The shooting was the latest  
Another man thought to be  ground or ran for cover.  violent attack at U.S. court­ 
involved in the shooting also  The courthouse was closed  houses.  
was being sought.  to  the public for several  
The gunshots followed  a  hours while officers combed  Nine people have been  
heated argument between  the grounds and searched  slain this year in  court­ 
family members involved in  flower-beds for the weapon.  houses around the country.  
BURN.  TUE VARSITY 9IIOP  
VICTIM.  Hair Designers Say you saw us in The Observer  
Haircuts $6.00  
with Student 1.0.  
277,0057  
WE'RE SHELLING OuT  
~  
ONLY YOU CAN PREVENT FOREST FIRES."U"  
~ A Pubhc Serv•ce of the USDA Forest Servtce and  
tr..'r:~ your State Forester  

If you like prime rib and seafood, your ship has come in at the Wharf! Choose from four delicious combinations. 
• 
Prime Rib and Snowcrab Legs • Prime Rib and Shrimp Scampi 

• 
Prime Rib and Almond Shrimp • lib. of Snowcrab Legs 



Each of these dinners includes coleslaw, vegetable of the day, and choice of potato or rice. And it's all just $12.95! 
So, don't you think it's prime time you set 
sail for the Wharf? But hurry, it's only 
for a limited time. 

300 E. Colfax at the River 234-4477 

~4if."j

'. -~<. ~. f"'t ..... • • J ' ,. ,... ·-­
Friday, September 25, 1992 The Observer page 11 
Child tries to 'divorce' parents ····:blamed 
Florida case could set a legal precedent 
'abuse 

ORLANDO, Fla. {AP) -"because nothing's going to significant," he said. "To my 
victed in a Cook County

Squirming and chewing a gum change.... That's the pattern knowledge, this is the first time 
years ag~of

drop, a 12-year-old boy went to for her." in American history that a ter­
her child! by

court Thursday seeking a Gregory said he felt unloved mination-of-parental-rights permitting abuse. The high"divorce" from his parents in a and unwanted most of his life. hearing has been broadcast on court combined appeals ofcase that could help give chil­He smiled occasionally in court, national television." 
both c.ases because they

dren more protection against chewed on a gum drop and Mrs. Kingsley said she tried · .; raise similar issues. 
parental abuse. whispered to those around him. hard to provide the boys a Experts suggest the con­Gregory Kingsley, brown­The trial was shown live on stable home, but was forced to say yes, victions are highly unusual. 
haired and pale, sat in the back CNN and Court TV. put them in foster care because AI'J~ tH:I'I the two W()tll!3D, The case of Violetta Bur­of the courtroom with members Child welfare advocates and she couldn't afford to keep lr.o,nviidF!d in separate cases, gos, the blind woman, con­of the foster family he hopes to legal scholars said the case them on a $200-a-week salary. 
•~..~~·"" their children over to cerns the death of herlive with permanently. could establish a significant le­Under questioning from Gre­men and l~t them beat daughter, Eleticia, in AprilHis mother, Rachel Kingsley, gal precedent, but some said it gory's foster father, attorney the children. 1986. if'cried as she denied allegations was unlikely to have much George Russ, Mrs. Kingsley But defense attorneys Burgos was dating Elijahthat she abused. neglected and practical effect. denied she had a history of al­tain their clients Stanciel -despite a stateabandoned him for most of his Charmaine Crouse Yoest, coholism. Later, she accused 
ouldri't be punished.for order barring her from see­
life. In the past eight years, policy analyst with the conser­Florida social workers of violence of others; !1ne .ing him because of his vio­Gregory has lived with her only vative Family Research Council thwarting her attempts to con­
absent when the fatal lence -and let him disci­
seven months. in Washington, said, "The tact Gregory. 
was inflicted, the other pline her daughter withMrs. Kingsley also denied that ramifications are huge.... "I tried to call for his birthday eo t spankings and beatings and, her fiance, Steve Hack, had You're looking at a fundamental and he was away on a camping pl)' al ··fatally, with blows to therecently beaten her in the shift at the way we view trip," she said. "They told me · argued stomach, authorities said. 
presence of her two younger children." he didn't want to speak with me the high · Eletieia died from injuriessons, who live with her in St. Howard Davidson, director of after a while." 
her r and intestine•.;;,·;;

Louis. the American Bar Association Glenn said she had been a :. :·:·:f#%~:: A former sister-in-law, Center on Children and the frequent visitor to the Kingsley 
Convicted in a non-juryJeanette Glenn, detailed in­Law, said it was unlikely that home in a St. Louis suburb al. Burgos and Stancielstances of abuse and neglect, many children would be hiring when the children were young. 

.~~:n:~ence<i to 60 years

accusing Mrs. Kingsley, 30, of lawyers to sever parental cus­pd$on'. but an appellatebeing an alcoholic, a drug tody in the future. He said the "Gregory finally has a chance 
ourt Burgos'

abuser and even a prostitute. case was mainly significant be­to have a decent life with 
court said

Sobbing, Glenn said she cause it had attracted so much people who love and care for to provehoped the two younger boys attention, not vice versa. him," Glenn said. "I want that 
tin'O'nci .,,irf••n or encouraged

also could be taken from her "All of the publicity makes it to happen." 
Kentucky Supreme ourt stnkes down state anti-sodomy law as unconstitutional 
FRANKFORT, Ky. (AP) -The ual intercourse with another tice Charles Leibson said that Kentucky Supreme Court struck person of the same sex." There just because a majority of peo­down the state's anti-sodomy is no Kentucky law against ple "finds one type of extra­law Thursday, ruling that it adultery, fornication or deviate marital intercourse more of­violates the constitutional rights sexual intercourse between fensive than another, does not of homosexuals. heterosexuals. provide a rational basis for 
"We need not sympathize, According to the American making criminal the sexual agree with, or even understand Civil Liberties Union, the Ken­preference of homosexuals." the sexual preference of homo­tucky court joined its counter­Leibson wrote that Kentucky sexuals in order to recognize parts in New York and Penn­has the "legally protected right their right to equal treatment sylvania in rulings that anti­of privacy based on our own before the bar of criminal jus­sodomy laws violate privacy constitution and common law 
tice," said the 4-3 opinion. rights. Similar decisions have tradition long before the United 
The court's dissenters said been returned by lower courts States Supreme Court first took 
the ruling will promote homo­in Texas and Michigan. In 1986, notice of whether there were 
sexuality. the U.S. Supreme Court upheld any rights of privacy inherent in 
The law barred "deviate sex-Georgia's anti-sodomy law. the federal Bill of Rights." Dozens of groups and organi­Reaction to the decision was r--------------------------------------' zations lined up on both sides split. 

nnie Doon 
Ice Cream 
Now being served at your favorite campus 
restaurants and 
eateries! 
My Daddy Makes The Best Ice Cream For the 
~~\NG ~/.
f<'(j ol ~ Notre Dame ~ 
filed legal briefs in the Ken­tucky case. 
The National Gay and Lesbian Task Force said eight states have laws against sodomy be­tween people of the same sex. Sixteen others and the District of Columbia prohibit sodomy even between people of the op­posite sex. 
Writing for the majority, Jus­
"The court has told the state that it has no business in your bedroom if your conduct is not harmful to others," said Everett Hoffman, executive director of the ACLU of Kentucky. 
An attorney for one of the groups that sought to keep the law on the books warned of dire consequences. 

MACRI'S PIZZA & ITALIAN RESTAURANT Pizza & Pasta-Sandwiches-Appetizers25 Pizza ToQ-pings & 1lb. burgers Free Dehvery to Campus SEPTEMBER SPECIALS:(expires 9/30/92) 
PICKUPQNLY $1 off any 12" or 14" Pizza $2 off 16" or 18" Pizza OnJ, widt rJW ad 
52303 Emmons Rd. George[Own Shopping Center (next to Club Shenanigan's) 
"Kristen, ~· .. 
Heather 
& Tara, 
Looking 
Forward 

To . ,A"f 
SpendingiAIH'I 

The weekend With You" Love, Uncle Tom 
j I 

1 

page 12 
ELECTION 
Black voters 
not enthused 
by choices 
BALTIMORE (AP) Kwabena Hardy, like many black voters, doesn't feel much enthusiasm for Demo­crat Bill Clinton and running mate AI Gore. 
He's undecided about how to cast his first Presidential ballot, but allows that he'll probably vote Democratic. 
"It's going to be hard, but I have to," says the 19-year­oid student at Morgan State University, who turned out to hear Gore speak at a re­cent rally in Baltimore. 
Politicians in both parties "use their pulpits to say things to our people that will butter them up and get us to vote for them, but in the long run they turn around and stab us in the back," Hardy said. 
His ambivalence is not unusual. Clinton's effort to win over working-class whites who deserted the Democratic Party 12 years ago has left many black vot­ers feeling ignored. 
At the same time, how­ever, many blacks "feel that they've had Reagan and Bush in office for 12 years and any change would be better," says David Bositis of the Washington-based Joint Center for Political and Eco­nomic Studies. 
A nationwide poll taken for the bipartisan center and Home Box Office in June showed that 77 percent of blacks disapproved of the job Bush was doing. 
Clinton's challenge will be to lure those blacks out to polling places on Election Day. 
The Democrats are walk­ing a political tightrope with Clinton's decision to craft a single message for black and working-class white voters, who have followed divergent political paths the last 12 years. 
Clinton has pleaded for racial harmony, promised assistance to decaying cities and proposed revisions in welfare programs -mes­sages aimed at black voters. 
The broader theme of his campaign has been revving up the nation's stalling economy, an issue that plays well among the so-called Reagan Democrats. 


The Observer Friday, September 25, 1992 
'92 

Perot's son says dad doesn't want the presidency 
Good Luck Lisa & Liz! 
For SMC Freshman President & Vice, President 

From Your Friends At: 5th Annex & Queens Court. 
(Party On Jesus!) 

DALLAS (AP) -Ross Perot's supporters are telling volunteer leaders who will meet with him Monday they want him back in the Presidential race. But Perot's son and other associ­ates say his goal is not to win the Presidency but to force the campaign onto "the tough is­sues." 
In several interviews during the past week, Perot has sug­gested he would launch an ac­tive campaign if supporters who put him on state ballots want him to do so. 
House Speaker prohibits Clinton-bashing on the floor 
WASHINGTON (AP) -House Speaker Thomas Foley, upset by a steady Republican bashing of Bill Clinton, on Thursday banned further insulting refer­ences to the Democratic Presi­dential candidate in floor speeches. 
Foley said the Arkansas gov­ernor would now be covered under a rule barring lawmakers from using the House floor to make such remarks about the President, Vice-President and lawmakers. 
Foley did acknowledge that House rules allow lawmakers more freedom to attack candi-
And Orson Swindle, national coordinator for Perot's volun­teer organization, said Thurs­day that a canvass he ordered of state offices found plenty of backing if Perot decides to run. 
''This is not a token gesture," Swindle said on NBC's "Today" show. "If he goes for the Pres­idency, he goes for the Presi­dency." 
But Perot's son, Ross Perot Jr., said his father's goal "is not to be President of the United States." 
"His goal is to nx the country, nx some problems, to keep the two candidates really focused in on what the problems are," Perot Jr. told KDFW-TV. "And he wants to make sure they can't avoid the tough issues." 
Earlier this week, former media adviser Jim Squires said Perot had no illusions of win­ning the election, but might begin running ads and making speeches in states such as Texas and rlorida, where he might affect the outcome. 
Perot's advertising consul­tant, Murphy Martin, sairl thr 

c---lz-OrFlNJPIKOlCIKr--, Wor 1 d • s Greatest 
(AND WE CUSTOMIZE) ~IO&Itt~ 
1635 Edison Road, YO&Y:~:Bt 
South Bend

(2 blocks east ofND Stadium) 
01991, ' C:..'t ..._ It'• ~ ltd. 
,Please present coupon before ordering. One coupon percustomer per ~sil. Offer good 
~~~~-~d~~~~~!~~~~~~l~~o~~0~~~~~~-~I~~~~~!~~~~!~~~!~~­
Notr,e Dame 

NOTRE DAME: A SENSE OF PLACE 
The most dramatic visual celebration of Notre Dame ever produced is now available in a paperback edition published by the University of Notre Dame Press. Its more than 100 four­color, full-page photographs by William Strode capturing the essence and spirit of Notre Dame make this the perfect keepsake of a special place. 
&;\, $21.9'i paper• II" x 9"•106 color photographs 
~· \\'il•! '•'. .. Hammes NAovtarileabDleamateBookstore
., ·''•'i·H':l•''l '\\·-··: ..
1 

~~ ld*lBJMltli£ • 
• The Second Floor • 
spots he has prepar~d for Perot focus on issues rather than the man. 
Asked if the spots use bio­graphical material, Martin said, "That's not really the purpose. We're talking about problems that face the country, how to solve those problems and who can best do that." 
When he was asked whether the spots say "Vote for Pe~ot :. 
Martin said, "They say what is necessary to relay the message and that's all I can say." 


L d f
aUn r0m a 
1813 South Bend Ave. Campus Shoppes Shopping Center (Behind Werntz Hardware) 271-7675 Open 7 days • 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. ; ----ui'o71d"·;c;;;;t;;rra;n'd;o;;r---i 
I 1813 South Bend Ave., at Campus Shoppes Shopping Center I 
(Behind Werntz Hardware) 
I Open 7 ·Days 271-7675 7:00AM to 11:00 PM I 
: 50% Off Any Drop-Off Laundry : I regular 65C a pound I Same Day Service 
L-----------------------~
Drop off laundry and dry cleaning Same day service Monday-Friday 
•self 
service •snack bar 

•free 
coffee •no smoking sections 

•children's 
play area •4 TV's &1 big screen 

•pool 
table •video games 

•friend
ly attendants •air conditioned comfort 


--~---­
---~l 

page 13 The Observer 


ELECTION '92 

Health-care proposals of candidates compared 
RAHWAY, N.J. (AP)-Here are some of the details of Bill Clinton's health care plan. Where noted are de­tails of related proposals ad­vanced by President Bush: 
COST CONTROLS 
• 
Establishes a National Health Care Board made up of consumers, providers, business, labor and gov­ernment to set national and state health care budgets to limit public and private health care costs. 

• 
Sets up managed care networks -organized sys­tems of insurers, hospitals, clinics and doctors -that will receive a fixed amount of money. 

• 
The spending limits are designed to create incentives for providers to reduce bu­reaucracy, eliminate duplicative technology and stop waste. 

• 
Bans "pre-existing condi­tion" exclusions so that in­surance companies have to take everyone. Bush would also eliminate such exclu­sions. 

• 
Establishes publicly sponsored purchasing groups that band together small businesses and indi­viduals to buy private cover­age, designed to create greater competition between health networks. Bush has proposed a similar system. 

• 
Forces insurers to offer a comprehensive benefits 


package that covers basic needs such as pre-natal care, mammograms and routine health screenings. Bush would require states to develop basic benefits pack­ages and insurance compa­nies to charge similar rates for similar coverage. 
• 
Attempts to bring down prescription drug prices to eliminate special tax breaks for pharmaceutical compa­nies that raise drug prices faster than inflation. 

• 
To trim paperwork, im­plements a single claims form, standardized billing codes and electronic pro­cessing. Bush advocates the same type of streamlining. 

UNIVERSAL COVERAGE 

• 
Forces employers to pro­vide coverage for their workers. About 85 percent of employers already do; Clinton's plan would give tax credits to offset the new costs for companies that don't currently underwrite. 

• 
Sets up a government fund to guarantee coverage for non-workers. People would pay a sliding scale based on income. 

• 
Raises the health insur­ance tax deduction for the self-employed from 25 per­cent to 100 percent. Bush would do the same. 


Bush has not proposed universal coverage or cost controls. 


Clinton outlines health plan 
Bush spokeswoman says quality would suffer 
RAHWAY, N.J. (AP)-Bill Clinton promised Thursday to press for a national health-care system for all Americans with strict cost controls and tax credits for small businesses and called President Bush's alterna­tive hollow. 
Clinton charged that Bush's tax-credit plan was designed merely to cure political ills rather than curb health-care expenditures, which he said have increased from $250 bil­lion in 1980 to $800 billion. 
"This is a matter that is criti­cal for the future of this coun­try's survival," the Democratic nominee told a crowd outside a New Jersey pharmaceutical company. 
"Do not let these 40 days go by without making a decision that you as an American voter will insist and demand that this problem be solved not in an­other 10 years but next year," the Arkansas governor said. "That is a major, major, major factor in what ought to deter­mine the outcome of this elec­tion." 
Clinton highlighted health care as he campaigned in New Jersey and New York while Bush took a day off at Camp David before a busy campaign weekend. But the Bush cam­paign called Clinton's plan too 

Housing Secretary predicts voters will pick Bush after they know more about Clinton 
BILL CLINTON 

expensive for average Ameri­cans. 
"His plan would place a tax on every working American that they cannot afford," said Bush campaign spokeswoman Alixe Glen. "It would reduce the quality of care that we enjoy in this country and would ration care for most Americans." 
Clinton also chided Bush anew for not agreeing to de­bates but with a new twist: suggesting Bush was afraid to face new questions about his role in the Reagan administra­tion's Iran-Contra scandal. 
Iran-Contra operative Richard Secord, meanwhile, disputed Bush's assertion that he didn't know about the Reagan White House's arms-for-hostages deals with Iran. 
In interviews over the past week, Secord told the Associ­ated Press that Bush has "not come clean" about his knowl­edge of the Iran arms sales. 
Secord told the AP that the President "was in on key deci­sions; there's simply no ques­tion about that; for him to sug­gest otherwise is simply not the case." 
"It's time for George Bush to come clean with the American people," said Clinton spokesman George Stephanopoulos. "What did Bush know and when did he know it? Why won't he tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth?" 
Clinton's focus on health care is part of the Democratic candi­date's effort to compare his domestic program with what he calls Bush's record of neglect. 
Standing outside the head­quarters of Merck & Co., Inc., Clinton said the· toll of the health care crisis went well be­yond the roughly 37 million uninsured Americans. 
Private spending for health care undercuts American com­petitiveness by draining money that could be spent on new in­vestment in equipment and jobs, he said. 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Secre­tary of Housing and Urban De­velopment Jack Kemp predicted Thursday that voters will turn to President Bush when they learn more about Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton's economic policies. 
"This egalitarian soak-the­rich, give-to-the-poor policy of the Clinton campaign, I think, eventually is going to turn the stomachs of the American peo­ple," Kemp told a Republican fund-raising luncheon. 
Kemp, a former congressman, argued the Presidential race will come down to differences between Bush's call for lower taxes, less government and 
• 

incentives for investment versus a Clinton plan the Secretary claimed would force taxes up. 
"Raising taxes on American workers and entrepreneurs to fund more government pro­grams is not putting people first," said Kemp. "It's putting government first, and it won't expand the economy. It will contract the economy." 
Kemp contended that a pro­gressive tax structure, with higher tax rates for higher in­come people, would remove in­centives for investment and en­trepreneurship which he said will be needed as the nation's economy changes as a result of the end of the Cold War. 
"We cannot compete with a 
A • 

Mock LSAT 
Saturday, September 26 Cushing Auditorium 8 a.m.-10:30 a.m. 
Any questions, call Aaron 
273-0663 

tax code that is steeply graded and progressive," said Kemp. "A progressive income tax is not a tax on the rich. It's a tax on the poor who hope to get rich some day." 
James Blassingame, state di­rector for Clinton's campaign, countered that Bush's economic plan "has come late and is shallow." 
Instead of raising taxes for everyone, the Democratic Presidential nominee wants to lower taxes on the middle class and raise taxes only on the richest 2 percent of the nation's citizens, Blassingame said. 
While giving a partisan pep talk to about 60 Republicans Thursday, Kemp also was promoting his own ideas for urban enterprise zones and re­forms in public housing so oc­cupants can buy their homes or apartments. 
In his 50-minute speech, Kemp quoted a variety of other politicians from Ronald Reagan to Winston Churchill to Jesse Jackson. 
Blassingame, noting Kemp's past differences with Bush, said the Secretary was merely "being a loyal soldier by going out on the election trail." 
SURVEY RESEARCH TECHNICIANS 
Flexible schedules available for "The_ best and brichtest." Able to wock 4PM • 
lOPM or.S:.30 PM· 1(}..30 PM durinc !be week and EITHER 9AM • JPM or 3:30 • 9-.JOPM on S.turday OR I lAM • SPM or 5:30PM to 9:30PM on Sunday to-& survey raearch intaViewinf. codint and data enay in our crowinc South Bend Research Operations Cen~~et. Ex.cellen compensation and workinc conditions. PC experience desired. TYPinc requiled. Send resume or letter of interest to: Market Saatecies, 108 N. Main, Suite 311, South Bend, IN 46601 or call 219­233-3454 foe apPOintment. 
ALSO HIRING WEEKENDS ONLY 



Viewpoint 
page 14 Friday, September 25, 1992 
Irish Guard members respond to proceedings 
I'V£3 GOTAN 10f3A. GOR& M/3NTION5 

BUT YOU 5UR&J3l!TGOt<&
WHAT FRANCIS BACON
H&Y,HONeY,I 

()f()N'T arJNt !<NOW
NOW¥ A WT/NH/5 
!<NOW 7HAT.I tt/HO 15
800K ... \ 

FR.ANC/7 H&ANYttJA~/ BACON. 50M&ACTOR'? 
/
""' 
\ 

'I can't get over this Georgia Dome thing. I absolutely despise domes. Unless it's sprinkled with gold and sits on N.D. campus, the only good dome is no dome.' 
Terrence Moore 

Sports columnist, Atlanta Journal 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND. IN 46556 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelie Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to ali members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
In light of the events occur­ring over the past few days in­volving the disbandment of the veteran Irish Guard members, we would like to express our views of the proceedings. 
To this day we do not know the exact charges brought against us. It is our understand­ing that fictitious rumors are the basis for our disbandment. 
For instance, as stated in The Observer, the accusation of having a single, anonymous student claim that members of the Guard were forcing another Guardsman in uniform to con­sume alcohol in the middle of an Alumni Association tailgater is heresy and blasphemy at its finest. 
It is a covenant law that no Guardsmen may consume alcohol, either publicly or pri­vately, in uniform. In addition, how is it that only one student, one person, has deduced the idea that we were "pouring al­cohol down the throat of an­other Guardsman." 
If this accusation were so, would not the entire congregation at the Alumni Association gathering witness and question this act? Furthermore, this article was the first of our such knowledge of this accusation. 
This and other unfounded rumors played a significant role in the decision made by Patricia O'Hara, Vice-President of Stu­dent Affairs. 
As such, this allegation should have been brought to our attention, so we may have at least had the opportunity to rightfully refute and correct this and other such outrageous allegations. 
Ms. O'Hara stated in yester­day's article that Student Affairs has "tried to preserve the 
DOONESBURY 
positive potential of the Guard. Whether that will happen de­pends on the Guard. 
They're pretty much masters of their own fate." Yet when we presented Ms. O'Hara with potential actions to improve our public image and the Guard itself, citing specifically volunteering our services to young people, she neglected these opportunities in order to make an example of the Irish Guard. 
Obviously, we were not the masters of our own fate, nor were we allowed to preserve the positive potential of the Guard, as she would have you believe. 
In reference to Ms. O'Hara's charges that our orientation activities were major indiscre­tions, let us further examine the actions of organizations both athletic and academic. 
Be it Eta Kappa Nu, athletic teams, or dormitories, initiations occur campus-wide. Zahm Hall, in order to encourage enthusiasm, covers their new members with mud and paint, dresses them in togas, and parades them to the major social event of the first pep rally, highlighting the fact that many thousands of alumni and students are enabled to witness this public socialization process. 
Why is there such a disparity between the initiations of these organizations and the Irish Guard? Never have we had a socialization process in the light of the public eye. The Office of Student Affairs has shown in­consistency in its disciplinary actions. 
This University claims to be fair, yet we have been harshly and unjustly acted upon. With so many continuities between 
.' ..~} 
~, ~"#' 
.~ \ 

Patrick Bednarz Christopher Boone Louis Blaum 
Irish Guardsmen 

other student organizations and the Irish Guard, why have we been singled out? 
Student Affairs and Band of­ficials learned of reported vio­lations prior to our meeting scheduled for last week. When approached by Student Affairs, we were under the impression that our meeting would involve the introduction to its adminis­trators, as has been practiced in the past. 
Upon arrival, however, we were individually interrogated with accusations based on unfounded rumors and anonymous sources. Fur­thermore, besides the fact that Ms. O'Hara was never present during this interrogation pro­cess, 
Student Affairs officers William Kirk and Ann Firth re­fused to state the exact nature of the improprieties. When asked, Mr. Kirk responded condescendingly and in an au­thoritative, unyielding manner saying, "I think it is obvious what has been brought forth against you." 
It is for this manipulative, cowardly, unprofessional conviction that we find fault with the non-judicial pro­ceedings which led to our dis­bandment. Through such ac­tion, it is evident that we were prematurely considered guilty. 
When attempts were made to state clearly and repeatedly our innocence, we were then ac­cused of dishonesty and making the proceedings more difficult than necessary. What evidence do they have of such al­legations? 
Rumors and the anonymous, fallible citing of one student do not constitute enough argument against the Irish Guard to lead to our disbandment. 
The articles in The Observer (Sept. 23) indicate particular reference to the fact that the Irish Guard is "a fraternity and pride themselves on keeping many of the traditions secret." 
Yes, we indeed are a fraternal organization in the literal sense of the word. Over the course of the season, a fraternal bond is naturally created; we become the best of friends based on loyalty, respect and admiration for one another, that is unique among all other organizations. 
The traditions still in existence to this day promote this bond and due to its uniqueness alone, they remain solely with the Irish Guard. The most frequently asked question of the Guard remains, "What do we wear underneath our kilts?" 
This simple yet traditional aspect of the Guard is the basis of our secretive nature, under which we have existed for forty­three years. It creates a mystique among the Notre Dame community which con­tinues to peak interest in the distinctiveness of the Irish Guard. 
This mystique by no means reflects poorly on the University's Catholic nature nor the Notre Dame family which we are chosen to represent. 
Based on the above, it is ap­parent that the veteran Irish Guardsmen were disbanded in order to eliminate the supposed "cult-like" traditions under which we have been accused of acting. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
This reasoning stems from the idea that if Student Affairs eliminates the current link to the traditions which have existed since the Guard's incep­tion, they will be able to estab­lish a Guard which conforms more appropriately with the values of this academic institu­tion. 
We are ten men, gentlemen all, with the honorable re­sponsibility of representing this University as Irish Guardsmen. Not only do we understand this responsibility, we accept it with the utmost respect and admi­ration for the Golden Dome. 
Student Affairs is an all-en­compassing authority, ruled by the unyielding dictatorship of Ms. Patricia O'Hara, which has the power to eliminate any or­ganization given a catalyst. 
We express our dissatisfaction with the proceedings of the Office of Student Affairs and would like to warn all groups associated with the University of Notre Dame to take additional precautions to ensure the safety and well­being of your organization. 
Though it has been indicated to us that the decision handed down by Ms. O'Hara is final, we would like to state that we will always be Irish Guardsmen at heart. She has single handedly taken away one af the most significant experiences of our lives here at Notre Dame. 
We are helpless in our plight to regain our status as marchers on Saturday afternoons, yet it will remain "in our hearts forever." We wish the remaining five Guardsmen the best of luck and hope with all sincerity that their experiences are as rewarding and as memorable as ours. Here's to you lads ... 
Viewpoint
Friday, September 25, 1992 page 15 
No matter whom we vote for, it is a vote for power 
"If you want to know about 
electoral process. The whole great, you've got to think big," I thing is geared, basically, to in­was explaining to my culturally­sure that the greatest-that is, deprived friends Jocelyn and the most powerful-gets the Dex, my old college buddy, as greatest number of votes. we stood on line for a movie the But in the end it doesn't really other day. matter because power wins 
"Take Havergal Brian's so-whatever the outcome. No mat­ter whom we vote for, we're pretty much just voting for
Andrew Cutrofello 
power itself." 
Subterranean Homesick 
"Huh?" 
Politics 
"She's saying that power perpetuates itself, which is why voting can never be a seriouscalled 'Gothic' Symphony, way of confronting power." 

arguably the greatest music of artsy one. But I had to solidify to make the latter-mentioned orable conclusion of my argu­Dex was a big help on thatthis century." my position. ocean bigger than the ment meant the Hollywood one.
"Never heard it," Jocelyn "Why do you think Bertolucci aforementioned ocean. All movie, Jocelyn tried to stall. 
"So what are you saying, Jo­admitted. "What does it sound is such a great director, Joce­because of some stupid poll." "You know, as a matter of fact, I celyn? That we should all staylike?" lyn?" I asked, figuring a couple Jocelyn gave Dex a quizzical sometimes feel exactly that way home from the polls?" 

"Basically, I have no idea of familiar illustrations would look, probably hoping he would on election day." 
"No, on the contrary. You

since I never heard it either," I make the point clear. help her answer my question. Dex nodded. "Yeah, I know know me; I can't stand the Re­tole her truthfully. "But it's in "Remember how his film "Well," Dex came to her res­what you mean. Except that publicans. And there are cer­the Guinness Book of Records '1900' was so long that the cue, "we could always just with American politics it's like tain fundamental rights whichunder the heading 'Largest couple sitting behind us had to change their names. When the you've got the Atlantic and the only Clinton has vowed to pro­Symphony.'" keep asking you to make me Atlantic won the poll, we'd Pacific battling for greatest re­tect. I am definitely voting forWe had been trying to decide stop snoring? Now that was a change its name to the Pacific, gion of the earth, and no one's Clinton, and I'm going to try towhich of two movies to go see, great film-I remember you and call the Pacific the At­representing the deserts, vol­persuade everyone I know to do and Jocelyn had said something said so yourself." lantic." canoes, forests, rivers, streams the same." 
about how she heard that this "OK, look," said Jocelyn in Humph, I thought. No fair, or whatever." 
"So voting does make a dif­artsy one was really great. that tone which meant put this Dex helping Jocelyn. So he was "Except of course you've got ference."

"Uh, so being in the Guinness monkeywrench in your pipe saying he didn't care which Gore, the senior senator from "In some ways yes, in someBook of Records makes that and stir it. "If we're really going movie we went to? OK, I had to the Great State of Rainforests," 
ways no. Your point about

symphony really great, huh?" to measure greatness in terms regroup. Jocelyn added. 
greatness winning no matter

Jocelyn smiled weakly. Appar­of greatness, why not put I gazed up at the movie "Really," Dex said. 
what just made me think thatently this was something she quantity on the side of the marquis thoughtfully, which got What in the world are these 

radical change of the system

hadn't really thought about be­audience? me distracted into trying to two talking about, I thought. 
can never come from an actionfore. Take a poll. If most people remember which Friday the "Look, I don't know how we which confirms that system."

"Sure," Dex said, playfully el­prefer the Atlantic to the 13th they were up to. got on environmental issues," I 
We'd finally reached the

bowing Jocelyn in the ribs. Pacific, poor fools though they "All right," I said finally. "The said, the palpable voice of rea­ticket counter. Dex and Jocelyn"Doesn't everybody now basi­be"-at this she returned Dex's winner would be called the Pa­son, "but we were talking about looked at me, as if to say what­cally recognize the Pacific to be playful elbow-"then the At­cific, right? But then there'd be the greatness question." 
ever you choose is fine with us.

a vastly superior ocean to the lantic would be greater than no point in taking the poll in the "Yeah," Jocelyn said,"and "All right," I said to the guyAtlantic? Or the Empire State the Pacific. At least until the first place, cause everyone now I can see that you were 
behind the ticket counter.

Building to be a greater mon­next poll, of course." would know ahead of time that right after all about greatness." 
"Three for that artsy movie,

ument to monumentality than Amazed at Jocelyn's reason­the Pacific would win no matter "I was?" trying not to look too please."
the Taj Mahal?" ing, I flabbergasted, "Joe, think. what. So nobody would vote, proud of myself. "Look, if you 
Andrew Cutrofello is a Pro­

Cool. I started to think that If you were right, we'd have to and the Pacific would win by really want to see that artsy 
fessor of Philosophy at Saint

maybe Dex would come around spend millions of taxpayers' acclamation." Put that in your film, I guess I could be per­
Mary's College. His column ap­

to my side and agree to see the dollars every year siphoning hat and mull over it. suaded... " 
pears every other Friday. 

Hollywood film instead of the Pacific water into the Atlantic Clearly seeing that the inex-"At least as an allegory of the 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Sophomore Class Council responds to allegations 
Dear Editor: 
We would like to take this op­portunity to respond to the let­ter published last week that questioned the effectiveness of the Sophomore Class Council. We have already spoken with the authors of this letter, but we want to publicly answer their questions and refute their allegations. 
We do appreciate the authors' interest in the Sophomore Class Council. We hope that more of our classmates express as much enthusiasm. At all times are we more than willing to listen to criticism-both positive and negative-not only about our performance as class leaders, but also about the events the Council sponsors. 
In the first place, however, we certainly do not see ourselves as being "elite" members of the Class of '95, nor do we believe our fellow Council members feel that way. Rather. we think of ourselves as a group of dedicated, hard-working people. 
Last spring we decided that a large council would best serve the interests of the class. Hav­ing a large council of sopho­mores provides a great number of minds to think up events, many opinions to be heard in discussion, and the personnel needed to carry out events. We are proud to have a council of so many sophomores willing to serve their classmates. 
Admittedly, like most other organizations, the Council does suffer from inefficiency at times. However, this problem cannot be attributed to an ex­cessive number of chiefs-of­staff as the letter suggested. In fact, there is only one chief-of­staff on the Council. 
Likewise, it is untrue that 23 people are ever planning one single social activity and untrue that seven people are planning our Class Masses. That is not how our committees conduct their affairs. 
In defense of our selection and appointment process, not one person on the Council failed in proving to be qualified. In all cases involving the selection of roommates, each one of them was the only person to apply for a position that needed to be filled. 
And considering that there has only been only one general council vote, we cannot under­stand why we have been ac­cused of "pork-barreling." Very simply, there has be.en none. 
We believe that the Council has done a fine job this year. Our events have drawn well for the most part. and we have ev­ery reason to believe that they will continue to be well at­tended. We ask that you judge the effectiveness of the Council not by its size but by the events it sponsors. 
Jim Penilla President Andrea Ricker Vice-President Michael LaMena Treasurer Connolly Treasurer Sophomore Class Sept. 20, 1992 

Simi Valley resident defends reputation of his hometown 
Dear Editor: 
As a resident of Simi Valley, California, I as well as my fam­ily and friends were immedi­ately affected by events that took place in April and May of this year in the Los Angeles area. I have heard all of the jokes about Simi Valley Police­men and about the "White Racists" that comprise the Simi Valley population. 
I have heard all of the analo­gies that compare Simi Valley to the Mississippi of the '60s and that it is a haven for the KKK. There are 120,000 people that live in Simi Valley. In all of the years that I have lived there, I have never met a single person who I or anybody else thought was even a mild racist. 
I have never seen or heard of anyone dressed in a KKK outfit, and I have never read about a racial beating in the local pa­per. 
What upsets me is that people make blind accusations when they appear to know very little about the subject. The fact is, not a single Simi Valley police . officer was involved in the beat­ing of Rodney King; they were 
all L.A. police officers. 

Of the twelve members on the Rodney King jury, two were from Simi Valley and the other ten were from the rest of Ventura County (i.e. Oxnard, Channel Islands. Ventura, etc.) 
Contrary to popular belief, the trial did not occur in the "Simi Valley Courthouse" but rather in the East Ventura County Courthouse which is in Simi Valley and was not presided by a Simi Valley judge, but by a Ventura County Judge. 
By no means am I trying to justify the outcome of this trial or to completely shift the blame. My point however, is this: the results of this trial are hardly the fault of Simi Valley alone. They are just as much the fault of Ventura county, the rest of the state, and the rest of the country. 
The social and economic strife that facing us is dragging down the justice system of the United States. The injustices we have seen in the courtroom are rooted in the hard times that people everywhere are experiencing. 
As several prominent black leaders stated during the riots, this has been a time bomb wait­ing to explode, and it could just as easily have happened in any city in the U.S. 
It is too bad that a man had to be beaten, an injustice served, a city's reputation destroyed, and another city burned down so that our lead­ers could see these problems. 
It awakens you to the prob­lems we are dealing with in this country when your mother calls you at four in the morning crying hysterically thinking that your little brother is going to get beaten and that the house you grew up in is going to get burned down because of an event that you and your family had no control over. 
How would you feel if you got the same phone call? Believe it or not, I'm not asking for sym­pathy for my hometown in this letter; I am asking for sympathy for all of us. 
I am asking that we be sensitive to the lives of others regardless of who they are, what they look like, or where they are from, and, like Rodney King, I too am hoping that one day we might "all get along" so that we can live together in peace. 
Tom Pitstick 
Off-campus 
Sept. 19, 1992 

~-------~~---------~--­
r-----­
SEPTEMBER 25-27 

weekend calendar 

y 
MUSIC 

Glee Club open rehearsal, Crowley Hall, 4:45 p.m. Freddy Jones Band, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m.Yesterday: A live tribute to the Beatles, O'Laughlin 
Auditorium, Saint Mary's, 8 p.m. ($5 SMC, $8 others) 
EVENTS 

Junior Class Formal, Union Station, 9 p.m.
International Art Sale, Sorin Room, Lafortune 

ay 
MUSIC 

Sea of Words and Sister Chain, Club 23, 10 p.m. Glee Club concert, JACC, 10:30 a.m. Freddy Jones Band, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS 

Notre Dame vs. Purdue, Notre Dame Stadium,.
12:35 p.m. ---­
Shenanigans concert, JACC, 11 a.m. International Art Sale, Sorin Room, Lafortune 
s 
y 
EVENTS 

Lyons Hall Volleyball Tournament, South Quad, 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 

FRIDAY 

Medlterraneo, Snite Museum, 7:30 & 9:45 p.m. Lethal Weapon 3, Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST Sneakers, 7 & 9:40p.m. Honeymoon In Vegas, 7:20 & 9:20 p.m.Hell Raiser Ill, 7:10 & 9:10p.m.Singles, 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. Husbands and Wives, 7:15 & 9:30p.m.School nes, 7:30 & 9:50 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST Pet Cemetary Two, 7:40 & 9:45 p.m.captain Ron, 7:45 & 9:50 p.m.Wind. 7:00 &9:30 p~m* ·:f~L 
SATURDAY 

t':&~rw~~"s~~tg~~rngi1ji~?iu~~~a\Pffrp.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST &WEST 
See Friday's schedule 

Student managers 
jobs demand dedication 
W 
By BILL FEKRAT highly sought one. While Accent Writer positions are open for any Freshman or Sophomore to try hen talking about out, only an outstanding few are Notre Dame football, selected to continue. This year names like Holtz, there are 95 sophomores who Mirer, Bettis, and help primarily with football and Dubose dominate discussions basketball practices, and game about the previous game's preparation. touchdowns.· penalties, At the end of the year, all of the interceptions, and strategies. managers evaluate each other, 
A person can watch every and the top 18 will go on into the game, read every article, and next year assisting at all football discuss every play, but that practices and running day-to-day person will probably never know operations from the first day of who the people are who paint the August training camp through football helmets, raise the field the end of the season, including 
goal nets, or follow Lou up and any bowl game. One of the primary aspects of gam~ 
down the sidelines with the At the end of junior year, the game preparation. Friday before 
headset cord. managers once again evaluate home games, or Thursday before 
It is very seldom that anyone each other. These rankings away games, the student wonders who these people are, determine who will lead the managers work long into the or how they found their organization for the next year. 
night issuing uniforms, replacingassociation with Notre Dame The order of rankings is also the 

worn and broken equipment,

football. order in which the managers 
cleaning up the lockerroom,

choose which sport they want to 
packing when necessary, and of Behind the scenes of every work. Usually, those who make course putting a new coat of gold athletic team, the Student the top three become football Managers Organization works managers. diligently throughout the year to ~I joined because I .,ii~l!lrsupport Notre Dame sports. This year the football staff is 


One hundred and thirty-one being run by Maher, along with loved sports and 1w -i' --­student managers work with all Head Student Manager Art Notre Dame varsity teams Monaghan, and Equipment wantedthe making practice sessions, game Student Manager John Fligg. 
OOI:K>rt..t.._. ··-~ w--· tO become

preparation, and the game itself During practice, the manager run as smoothly as possible. has to know the routine that ·great···· 
Many sports fan would each coach uses for instructing treasure the chance to work so and drilling players. The jobs closely with a team throughout are not always glamorous -often its season and get to know the they involve carrying around a players and coaches on a bag of footballs. or charting personal level. plays, or generally running 
"I joined because I loved sports whatever errands coaches or on 
and I wanted the opportunity to players need. But every once in The head managers make all become involved with a great awhile a manager may get a the travel arrangements for the COm]football program," said Brian chance to fill in as a runningback team. They act as liaisons to 
coac~ 
Maher, Personnel Student and run a play with the team. make sure the hotel is prepared bust Manager. The student manager's job is for the team with meeting rooms, work Over the last few years, the essential to the functioning of the film projectors, meals, snacks, 
Th 

manager's position has become a football team, especially during and every imaginable need the and 
Security force enjoys keepin£ 
T 
By MATT CARBONE benefactors, and the media; and in Red God, and with reall~ Accent Writer West. where the alumni park. being in Heaven corr Hale's job is to make sure that his Notre Dame and its p he ritual for students during the officers allow only those with special passes that there are good p fall is the same: roll out of bed into the lots. In his fifteen years on this Hurley especial! around ten, take a few Advil, go to detail, Hale said he has heard every story honest kids" of Notrl a friend's, parent's, or relative's and excuse ever invented. sons attending Notre tailgater, watch the Notre Dame football "Basically, we've got it down to a science" at Saint Mary's. "If : team in action, return to tailgater, go home said Hale. "A pass gets through, no pass with kids, you should' and fall asleep. goes home." Security force]." he s1 For one group at ND -the Notre Dame Hale came to ND Security "on a lark." For home footb Security force -football Saturdays are not While looking for a job, one employment coordinates security nearly as simple or entertaining. agency asked him if he was interested in from South Bend, St. 
Each Saturday morning at 7 a.m., ND becoming a security officer. Fifteen years Mishawaka; the r Security officers report to work, ready to later, "the lark has turned into a career." involved, both in Ul begin another shift in the belly of the beast In the meantime, Hale was also able to clothes, approaches 1 that is an ND football game. graduate from the Police Academy in 1980. Reinforcements arrive at 9 a.m. to join in Hale said he enjoys his job, especially Approximately a w the proceedings. working with the "good, down-to-earth Hurley meets with ol 
For the next twelve hours, working in kids" of Notre Dame. ''I've been very groups to decide , conjunction with police officers from South lucky," he added. dispatch officers. Bend, St. Joseph's County and Mishawaka, Chuck Hurley, Assistant Director of ND control, security i 
this hearty group of men and women toil in the football stadium, parking fields, and surrounding traffic intersections to insure that everything goes smoothly. 
Dan Hale, a lieutenant in the ND Security force, is the supervisor and coordinator of the officers working in the stadium parking areas reserved for University officials, Security, feels the same way. He came here after 20 years with the South Bend Police Department, four of which he spent as Chief of Police. In 1988, Hurley was rec­ruited by Rex Rakow, Director of ND Security, to apply for the Assistant Directorship. He did, and was accepted. 
" It's the greatest thing that ever happened to me," said Hurley. "I work for confiscation of illeg wrinkle you may no scalping. 
During each gam security officers patr plainclothes lookin times holding sign above their heads, the tickets from any 


~----------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

page 17 

Assistant coaches appreciate positions and environment at ND 
By KEVIN DOLAN worked on that week. After gan State [a 43-yard completion Accent writer practice, the coaches are able to Lake Dawson]. you're like, to get some much-needed rest 'Yes! Yes!' " 
0 
ne of the commonly with their families. Mosely receives his greatest held beliefs about On Fridays, the assistant satisfaction from a "good, hard Notre Dame football is coaches spend less time with practice where everything that head coach Lou the Fighting Irish and turn to works." Holtz has control of all aspects high-school action. Many films Assistant coaches are, for the of the team. of high-school prospects are most part, happy in their posi­
While he does have the final analyzed so that the coaches tions. ''I'd love a head job, but say on what the team does, he can plan their recruiting visits. I'm not actively seeking one," gets plenty of help from his "You want to know what kind said Holtz. " My commitment is assistants; help that the team of players the kids are, so that to Notre Dame, and as long as could never do without. when you go to their school, I'm here, I plan to do the best I 
These little-known men in­you can concentrate on what can." sure that practice will run kind of person you're dealing Mosely agreed. "I'm a quiet smoothly, spend hours planning with," said running back-coach guy, but I've been a head coach game strategies and con­Earle Mosely. in a high school, and being an centrate on their specialities Saturday, game day, is almost assistant coach is equally re­during games in order to help 
warding," he said. Coach Holtz decide what the Both coaches also agreed that 
The Observer/ John Bingham team should do. It is a taxing -to be at Notre Dame was to be ion for football managers is coating the Irish helmets with gold paint. and often thankless -job. 
in a bit of a fishbowl, especially and players may have. rewards. Most of the managers An assistant coach's week with the NBC television contract starts on Sunday morning with high
receive credit for their and expectations for 
an 8 a.m. film session. Here,
dent managers must schoolbooks and are given success. are for any situation that clothes to wear on the field. At the coaches break down the The tradition of Notre Dame arise on and off the field. the level of Senior manager, the previous day's game, identifying football is another source of 
what mistakes were made and pressure.
way the players and university gives tuition credits 
can concentrate on the anywhere from 65-100%. how to fix them. They leave the "You feel obliged to win be­and not have to worry film room and break into staff cause of all the ghosts that are t chalk for the blackboards All agree that the greatest meetings (offense and defense), relaxing by comparison. The around here as much as any­
lost chinstrap off a helmet. feature of the job is being able to where the film is discussed team meets for breakfast at thing," Holtz laughed. "The 
is more important than work with all of the people farther and plans are made for 8:30 a.m., followed by a team tradition of this school as an connected with Notre Dame practice that week. mass. The players and coaches elite school in both academics can do everything in your athletics--from coaches and The coaches then gather then walks over to the stadium, and athletics is a tradition that again to watch more films, this and as young Holtz said, "They we work hard to uphold," he
right way 999 times out players through administrators 
000," said Monaghan, "but in the Athletic Department. time of the next opponent. It just go out and do it." added. 
time you screw up, its All of the senior managers isn't uncommon for these Both Holtz and Mosely agreed Being an assistant coach is teed that someone is agree that being a manager is sessions to last until 8, perhaps that the only tensions on Satur­indeed a low-profile job, but it to notice." not being an outsider with the even 10 p.m. days are how their own team is still a full-time job; one that is 
athletic department team. Instead, it is being an The coaches are at work well would execute. fulfilling to the coaches here. before practice on Monday. "You just have to hope that "I've been a coach for 16
es the organization as a integral part of the team and 
ortive role. It is not a receiving a quiet respect for their Staff meetings are held at 7 what you've worked on all week years, and this job is one of the 
that draws a lot of performance. a.m. and usually run until the is what the players do in the best I've ever had," Mosely , but it is filled with film session begins at 3 o'clock. game," said Holtz. After the remarked. As Skip Holtz said, Tuesday's and Wednesday's game, the week ends for the
people who want to be "I said at the beginning when I referring to head coach Lou 
practices are about the same as coaches, but they are back at Holtz, "We're learning from one
of Notre Dame sports was a Freshman, 'I'm not going 
Monday, both ending well into work early Sunday, planning for of the best."
to waste my time, if all I get out 
the evening for the coaches. the next one. It may not bring fame and
have received a lot of of this is having to be bossed 
iments from visiting around by some dumb jock,' I Thursday, however, is what It is a hard job, but it is not fortune, but working for Lou who say we have a lot of can find something better to do," offensive coordinator Skip Holtz without its rewards. "The Holtz and Notre Dame is a job 
have noticed our hard said Fligg. " But I never met calls a "dress rehearsal" for the greatest satisfaction comes that few coaches anywhere said Monaghan anyone like that. Everyone I've game. Few new strategies are when our players execute what would be willing to trade, least introduced on Thursday; rather, we worked on in practice," said of all the ones who are lucky
who put in their time worked with here has been very 
the team and the coaches try to Holtz. "When you pull off a play enough to hold jobs in the
receive some material friendly and appreciative." 
perfect all the things that they like the first one against Michl-shadow of The Dome. • 
Irish tans in line 
good people ...it's like face value. The officers then send these d to where I was. tickets to the ticket manager to see who made me realize was originally issued the tickets. This is a uple in the world." surprising tactic of which many students 
enjoys the "good, may not have been aware. . Dame. He has two 
arne, and a daughter Another aspect of security is safety. In don't like working past years when ND had night games, be here [on the ND pedestrian safety was a major concern. With the large amount of tailgating games, Hurley attenders roaming about, coupled with 
measures with police heavy traffic and darkness, Hurley said Joseph's County, and that he used to keep his fingers crossed umber of officers "that no one would get hurt." 
and in plain-Recently, with the NBC contract specifying 12:35 p.m. kick-offs, this concern has thankfully become a much less before the game, of a problem for security. In addition, the from the other earlier starting times have caused a 
re and when to decrease in alcohol-related arrests. s involves traffic "ND security officers realize that a de the stadium, football game is a social event. We want 
ly sold shirts, and a people to have a good time, as long as have been aware of, they're not preventing others from enjoying themselves. "said Hurley. eight Notre Dame One last thought about Notre Dame the parking fields in Security from Hale: "People don't realize for scalpers. Some­we're actually human beings." 
The Observer/Pat McHugh 

like "NEED 2 TIX" They are indeed human beings, and they 
Dan Hale and Chuck Hurley agreed that working football games demands a love of both Notre Dame and its 
officers confiscate do a great behind-the-scenes service to 
student body. On football Saturdays, approximately 150 security officers patrol the area around the stadium. 
selling them above Notre Dame. 

T.he. Ob~!3rv.er Friday, Septeml:>eF 25, 1992
~age .18 

A profile in courage of the lonely God 
A freshman reader has been 
would also not want to be seen His peace with the grave, He's asking me a question that in Simpson's sitting across from sensitive to all the fears I have comes every year: do I really Father Robert Griffin the great lion Asian, wearing a of dying. think God is lonely?"Lately," I napkin tied around his neck. told the kid, "He's been doing I don't think His adventures As the Lonely God, He doesn't
Letters to a Lonely God
better. Swaggart's downfall was with the Domers here in Middle need dogmas to define Him. a bummer. His mother's been Earth have ended. I could tell He's not on deck to take my 
out a lot, making field trips, so you that you will know Him, loneliness or yoms away, but to she says, to Sundance country, "How can you tell?" of sorrows acquainted with when you meet Him, when He fill it with His presence where she hopes they will build "As the Lonely God, I can tell grief; we would need a great lets you see the nailprints in His 
her a shrine. that I'm neither invisible nor growth in grace to reach Him at hands. I've never before tried to put 
This summer, a band of imaginary." To prove His high this depth-but as the the Lonely God into words; still, angels, swung too low coming calling, He will pull the Ener­companion who stayed with us But it wouldn't be true, I'm not evangelizing on His be­over Jordan and crash-landed gizer Rabbit out of a Martini to hear the chimes at midnight, because that's sentimental, like half. But I'm putting you on no­their chariot. Now they're glass, and permanently cure the because He had no place else to a holy card. He simply isn't a tice: His friendship is worth rookies again, starting boot student's post-nasal drip. go. stuffed animal from the chil­having. He's not biodegradable, 
camp over." 

dren's menagerie, cosmic and and He doesn't get shopworn, "Rabboni!" will cry the stu­We outgrow Him, lose Him, fuzzy-wuzzy at bedtime. or have a shelf life. 
The student looked to see if dent, awestruck, and the Lonely then find Him again. But He He's as real as the sidewalk I the chaps with the butterfly God will blush, and allow the stays close, and is persistent can bruise my knees on. He's as Even without the school logo, nets were in sight, coming for to student to see Him subliminally like a heartbeat. human as a cry for help out of He's part of the tradition, so I 
carry me home. as the Burning Bush.I Metaphysically, you could say the depths. Because He's made hoped you'd want to meet Him. 
"Being the Lonely God is no introduced Notre Dame to the He is everywhere; but He's bed of roses," I told him; but I Lonely God early in the more intimate than that. could see he had lost interest. alienated Seventies. Asking if Finding Him as a sidekick in 
Instant whimsy can be a litmus He's really lonely is like asking New York, Brussels, Paris, and test separating the men from if Asian in the Chronicles is Cologne, I know He's part of the boys. The lad wasn't ready truly a lion. me; if I'm part of Him, that's a 
KEENANITES
to enter the orbit of the Lonely He has to be lonely; this secret He keeps. God; and though that's too bad, campus is his Narnia, and it I don't sense His whistling for he needn't worry. comes with the territory. If this me to come; I don't have a 
(Freshmen that is)
were the other Narnia which sense of Him returning, after an 
He'll run into the Lonely God C.S. Lewis writes about, the absence, to the scene of the when he's older, sitting alone, Lonely God would be Asian, the crime. I don't feel that He walks drinking, and feeling blue. The Redeemer Lion who sang his with me, talks with me, and student will not know who He mythical country into its tells me that I am His own, like 
VOTE
is, or anything about Him ex­temporal existence. Christ in the hymn. cept that He keeps turning up The Kingdom of the Lonely when a fellow needs a friend. God is only a myth if Notre But dining alone in Simpson­
Finally the student will say: Dame is a myth. He came here on-the-Strand, just up from the "Who are you anyway?" and He to show the lonely-Of-heart that Thames Embankment, it feels will answer, "Have you heard of He is their brother. We may as unremarkable as breathing 
the Lonely God?" outgrow our need of Him, and to find Him there, wishing me 
STEVE SABO
The student will say: "He's perhaps He hopes that we will, bon appetite, bring me zest for Griffin's pookah.ll The pookah for He must wear many masks, the meal. --known to all of us, I hope, is an and He must be called by many But He's not there for me as 
!for 

invisible, perhaps imaginary, names. Pooh-bear, or the Sunday school six-foot rabbit named Harvey. Jesus, or as the Divine Lover of "He's not a pookah," the But at a time when many my soul I would be Lonely God, taking umbrage, were unsure of themselves, He embarrassed to be seen with in 
fRESHMAN CouNCIL 
will retort. was there for us-not as a Man public. To tell you the truth, I 
SENIORS 
• On-Campus Intervie ·ng Notice • 
• 
The Posting of Interview Schedules for the Week of September 28 was Delayed Due to a Processing Difficulty with our New Scheduling Program. 
Students who Requested Interviews for Next Week Who Have NOT Verified Their Sign-Up Results, Please Come to the Career and Placement Services Office 
Today 
OR During Special Hours on 
-
Sunday, September 27 2:00 --4:00 p.m. 
We apologize for this week's inconvenience. 
--~---~----------~·-------------------------~---·-----------------------------, 
-friday; SeJ!)tember 25{1992 'The Obser\/er 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a~m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m~ to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces~ 
Notices 
ATIENTION: For more information and assistance regarding the investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the Better Business Bureau of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 or 800-439-5313. 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
TYPING 287-4082 
Need Math help? Experienced tutor, all levels--Joe 2711532 
Earn $ selling silk neck ties I hanks I suspender sets. Newest styles I great profit margin. $40.00 start up. (215) 824-2914. 
•••• GRAPHIC LITERATURE •••• 
Entertainment for the 90's!!!! Find out what you're missing at: COLLECTOR'S DEN (Comics, 
Toys & Games) 4609 Grape Rd. JMS Plaza, Behind Hardee's M-F 11 to 7, Sat 10 to 6 
INTERVARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP 
Friday Night Meeting Tonight! 7:00 -8:30pm Farley Lounge (rm.115) 
Questions? Call Kevin @ 1384 or Lisa @ 4290 
IRISH ACCENT COMEDY/IMPROV TROUPE TRYOUTS 
7:00 P.M. MONDAY, SEPT. 28 WALSH HALL 
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!! BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday Pandora's Books 808 Howard 3 blks. from campus 233-2342 
TRAVEL FREE! SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS TO JAMAICA, CANCUN AND FLORIDA! BEST COMMISSIONS I FASTEST TO FREE TRAVEL! CALL SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710 
Typing 237-1949 Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 
Alteration, repairs & tailoring of ladies & kids dresses 273-1483 
Lost and Found 
FOUND Watch 9/21 by lakes x4991 
LOST CALCULATOR Casio fx7000 (graphic display and other stuff). Badly needed. $$$ and no questions asked. Please call Jose @ x2070 
Lost!! My parents gave me a beautiful gold watch for Christmas and I LOST IT!!! Most likely on North or Mod Quad, maybe in Math & Comp. building. If found, call Amy at x4530 or x4525. 
LOST 35mm Pentax camera with black carrying case film is very important if found call x3385 
Lost: Large, red and white umbrella with red maple leaves on it (like a Canadian flag). If found, please call Chris at X2033. 
Found: Pair of round eyeglasses in a gray case. Found in front of the Snite. Call Jim x3411 
Wanted 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Guaranteed INCOME with HUGE PROFIT potential. Need extra money? Are you motivated? Want to have some fun? Send letter of interest to: Maingate Enterprises P0915 Notre Dame, IN 46556 or CALL: 
287-6730 (Leave message) $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Looking for Bagpipe Practice Chanters. Call Ed 277-6976. 
SURVEY RESEARCH TECHNICIANS Flexible schedules available for "The best and the brightest ." Able to work 4PM-1 OPM or 5:30PM­10:30PM during the week and EITHER 9AM-3PM or 3:30PM­9:30PM on Saturday OR 11AM­5PM or 5:30PM-9:30PM on Sunday to do survey research interviewing, coding and data entry in our growing South Bend Research Operations Center. Excellent compensation and working conditions. PC experience desired. Typing required. Send resume or letter of interest to: 108 N. Main, Suite 311, South Bend, IN 46601 or call 219-233-3453 for appointment. ALSO HIRING WEEKENDS ONLY 
BONNIE DOON HAS POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR SERVERS, COOKS AND FOUNTAIN 
Apply in person to: 52446 Dixie Way No., South Bend 4615 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn $5000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545­4155 ext. A5584. 
$$$ NEED MONEY? $$$ Now hiring 1 0 drivers and 5 inside­help. Make $8-12/hour delivering for DOMINO'S PIZZA. Pt. time and Full time available. Employee discounts on pizzas. Business is booming. Call Brian at 271-0300 to set up an interview. 
EARN $1 ,500 WEEKLY mailing our circulars!...Begin NOW!. ..FREE packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. 
TASP INTERNATIONAL IS LOOKING FOR INDIVIDUALS WHO WANT TO GAIN MANAGEMENT EXPERIENCE NEXT SUMMER. EARN $8,000­10,000. POSTION AVILABLE ACROSS INDIANA (MICHIGAN) ( ((((( ((((((( KENTUCKY) (TENNESSEE). CALL TOM SMITH 1-800-543­3792 
WANTED: Child care worker for in-home care of 2 five year-olds, Fridays, 9AM-2. 287-5117. 
For Rent 

BED 'N BREAKFAST for ND-SMC families. 2 bdrms. w/twin beds; 1 bdrm. w/single. 10 mins. from campus in attractive neighborhood. For football & special weekends. Call 234-2626. 
Near N.D. cozy furnished apts. studio-$220 I bedroom-$255 2bedroom-$280 Deposit, 1-800-582-9320 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
B & B -UNIQUE COUNTRY SETIING. MINUTES FROM ND. NEAR GRANGER. 616-663-8308. 
For Sale 

RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR, TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR, TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY FREE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-5959 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 
89 MERCEDES ......... $200 
86 vw.......................... $ 50 
87 MERCEDES .......... $100 65 MUSTANG ............. $ 50 Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright #IN11KJC. 
FOR SALE: AIR TIK S.B to NORFOLK Va. FOR FALL BREAK Call1983 
'88 HORIZON 

POWER BRAKES & STEERING. 
NEW TIRES, NC. 
51,000 MI. 
289-1564. 

Sweatshirts For Sale!!! Handmade 
Christmas, ND, & Irish Sweatshirts 
and T-shirts for sale. For more 
information or to see samples call 
Kim 273-2967. 

Oakhill Condo -2BRs, 2 Baths, 1170 sq. ft., fireplace, skylight, spiral staircase to loft/den. 1 car garage. Walk to ND $77,500. Coldwell Banker 277-8000. Ruth Ann Smith 288-8875 
'86 Cavalier AS, 2 door, black Excellent transportation $1 ,800 or best offer Please call 284-5376 before 5pm 
FOR SALE 1986Toyota Tercel Wagon GREAT CAR 4WD/SR5 am/fm/cass AIR BOOK VALUE $4,475 call 239-5959 
STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKETS SELLING BOOKLETS! ROW SIX SEATS! CALL BECKY 283-2689 
BICYCLE FOR SALE Black Trek 800 18" Good Condition-2 yrs. old. $200. Call 232-2944 & ask for Geoff. 
LOFT " LOFT • LOFT Selling Cheap! x4843 

For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call Rita Delivery on Campus 234-6524 
CHEAP FLIGHT NY (LGA) to SB OCT 23 Call Brian 273-0967 
IBM Compatible 286 Computer. Keyboard, Monitor, Mouse. 14 EGA Monitor 40 MB hard drive 12 MHz speed 640KB RAM memory High Density 1.2 MB 5.25 floppy Dot Matrix Printer 
219-656-8987. 

Lrg 2& 1 br apt avail in Victorian home. Hrdwd tis, yard, bus line, sunny. Prtly furnished. Great deal. Call 287-8264 eves. 
SELLING Fri & Sat Weekend room at Signature Inn & 2 tickets to Purdue $250 Call277-6703 
Tickets 

NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX CALL JOE OR JAY X1760 
I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS.272-6306 

NEED TICKETS FOR ALL HOME GAMES!CALL BRIAN 800-443­6701 x5281 or 312-248-3425 
WANTED: STANFORD GA'S &/OR STUD'S WILL PAY$ $ $ ! 
PLEASE CALL TODAY! DANIELA 284-4346 OR BOB 283-1 090 THANKS! 
STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE 
CALL 283-1747 
player needs many PU GAs and 2 stud tix call Rich or Tom-1121 
NEED 3 STAN GA'&-WILL PAY BIG$$$ CALL PHIL-283-3542$$$ 
STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKET BOOK FOR SALE -ALL TICKETS AVAILABLE-CALL KATIE AT 284-5443 -LEAVE MESSAGE, BEST OFFER!!! 
Need Stan. GA's Bob 3398 

I need 1 student ticket for Stanford Joe X1666 
NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PURDUE & BYU. PERSONAL USE ONLY. CALL 271-9540. 
Want to trade 2 GA Purdue tix for 2 GA Stanford tix. Call 606-278-9820 
Need many BC GAs or M.Stud. $ or will trade Pur, Stan or BYU GAs. Nick or Tracey 239 7733. 
WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE GA'S FOR 2 PENN ST. GA'S OR 2 STANFORD GA'S. 277-3097. 
I NEED 4 STUD. OR GA'S FOR STANFORD. PLEASE CALL MARY AT 3427. 
NEEDED: 
2 STANFORD GA'S 
CALL MIKE x1528 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED PURDUE GA'S FOR MY 
FUTURE IN-LAWS!!!!!!!!! 
PLEASE HELP!!!!!!! 
ED @ 272-0864 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
SELLING 1 BYU AND NEED 1 
BC TICKET. CALL NATASHA 
1257 

REALLY NEED 2 PURDUE GAs OR STUDENT TIX CONTACT LYNN X1675 
I NEED 3 PENN ST GA'S WILL PAY, MIKE x2209 
Billy Ray Cyrus (4th Row) For Sale or Trade For GAs 289-3273. 
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ FOR SALE 
PURDUE STU TIX My brothers cannot come, so their tickets are for sales, please help 
Michael283-1161 @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ 
I NEED 1 PURDUE GA. I HAVE $ BRIAN X4073 
1/PURDUE//PURDUE//PURDUE// 4 GA's, x1166 Scott, Paul 
Need 2 GA's for STANFORD have 2 BYU GA's to trade or will pay $$ Amy X2609 
FOR SALE: STUD AND GA TX TO 
EVERY GAME x1416 ANTHONY 
I have 2 Purdue GAs & 2 Stanford GAs I Want Penn St GAs Ask for John x1372 
Have Purdue & BC Stud. Tix Will sell or trade for Penn St. & Stanford Tix plus $ Eric x1200 
$ RICH family needs 6 GAs $ $ for Stanford game $ $Call Pat@ 1900$ 
Please help!!! I'm in DESPERATE need of Penn State GA's ..... Call Ann 284-5241 
WILL TRADE 2, 40-YARD STANFORD GA'S + CASH FOR 2 PENN ST. GA'S X1746 JASON 
I NEED PURDUE GA'S CALL TIM 289-6052 $$$$ 
TRADE: 2 BYU GA'S FOR 2 BC GA'S (715-359-0222) 
NEED 3 PURDUE GAs. PLEASE CALL MARY@ 271-7288 
MOMONEY! 
MO MONEY! --MO MONEY! SELL ME YOUR PU GA's TO GET... 
MOMONEYI 
CALL TOM 289-8735 
NEED PURDUE GAs CALL EMMETI x1 084 
FOR SALE 

45 yd line P U R D U E GAs 
My paernts cannot come and 
need to get rid of these tickests 
PLEASE HELP 
Michael 1161 

need stanford stud tix or purdue ga's-call mike 1594 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston College GAs or student tix. Call Jill @ x4758 or x4721. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Student thickets for sale 272-4215 
() 
NEED BYU 

NEED BYU 
My parents, grandparents and aunt & uncle are coming so I need tickets for all of them. I am not picky about the GAs I need. 
Please help out my family so that they can see a game before I graduate this year. 
Joe Gallatin x1161 
Thank You Thank You 
() 
DESPERATE ALUM NEEDS 6 GA TIX TO STANFORD GAME. WILL MAKE VERY GENEROUS OFFER. CALL 412-644-3125 (DAY) OR 412­441-9613 (EVENING). 
I'll do anything for 1 GA to B.C. or 
Penn St. Lisa 284-5080. 
WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE GA'S 
FOR 2 GA'S ANY OTHER HOME 
GAME. 291-6391. 
GA'S FOR SALE (1 Purdue, 1 BC, 
1 BYU, 1 Penn St) GOING TO 
HIGHEST BIDDER AT 283-4158 
Need GA tix for BYU will buy or trade for my GA PENN ST tix. Butch (209) 449-1800/439-6170. 
WILL TRADE 2 PENN STATE TIX FOR 2 BYU TIX. (904)274-3281 ­
LEAVE MESSAGE. 
Purdue St. Tk: $25. Tom, x1444 
I have 2 BYU GA's!!! 
I am looking to trade these for 
2 Stan. GA's or 2 Penn St. GA's 
Joe x1395 
1 stud. tix book, call John x3952 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 618-439-3338. 
HELPIll Need 4-5 GAs for Nov. 7 BC game. Please call x3799. Thanks. 
NEED PENN STATE TICKETS. WILL PAY $40 EACH. CALL COLLECT 614-354-5716 
SELLING OR TRADING 8 PENN ST GA's. WANTED 8 STANFORD GA's OR STU TIX. CALL KELLY OR LARRY AFTER 10:30 pm OR WKEND am. (212) 249-7239. 
NEED PURDUE GA'S. CALL SANDY AT 272-6194. 
HELPI!! NEED 2-4 PENN ST. GA'S OR STUD. TIX. CALL ALAN x1597 
Wanted: Stanford vs Notre Dame 1-415-991-3416 call collect 
NEED 2 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S. Morrissey Hall & Law School Alumnist. Please help. Call David at 816-931-1267. 
Need 1 Stant. G.A. pay top$$ call Scott x4243 
STANFORD TICKETS I NEED STANFORD TICKETS I!! 
CALL COLLEEN AT 283-4528. 
11!1111!1111111!1!!1!11!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!111!1!!!! ! STANFORD.STANFORD• HELP ME! 
I NEED STANFORD GA'SI IF YOU HAVE ANY CALL SABOL AT 283-2950 ·sTANFORD.STANFORD• !!1!1!!1!!!!111111!11111!!1!!111!1!1!11!111111!!1111111!! Ill 
HELP! MY PARENTS NEED TWO GA'S FOR THE STANFORD GAME. THEY WILL PAY$$$$$$ PLEASE CALL AL @273-2624 
N.D. BAND DAD NDS G.A. FOR 
B.Y.U. REASONABLE. SARAH X3874 
Need 1 BOSTON or 1 PENN STATE St. Tix. Call JIM X1565 
I need 3 G.As and 1 student ticket for the Stanford game. If you can help, please call Suzy at x3722. 
I need lots of PURDUE tickets!! Call Nicole x1564 
Need 1 0 plus BYU GA's Call #1852 
Need 4 BC Ga's Have Purd, byu stud tx and free kitten. Brian 273-1962 
NEED PURDUE GA's FOR G-PARENTSI!I CALL 284-5118 
WILL TRADE 2 STAN. GA's for 2 PURDUE GA's call Ted x2647 
HELP! I NEED 10 PENN ST GAs!$ is no object! call Pat x2071 NEED REASONABLY PRICED 
G.A.S: 2 STANFORD AND 2 BC. CALL JUDY 239-6515. SORRY, I'M POOR. 
I NEED 1 STANFORD GA CALL ART x1153 
Need 2 PENN St GA's and 1 BYU GA-Call 273-2873 
Need 2 Penn State GA's Please Call Lisa at 289-3790 
Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call 1-800-922-BEAR. 
Selling STUDENT TICKET BOOKLETS. Luis 273-1528 
Help! I need two Purdue GA's. Will pay $$$$. Call Alan @ 273-2624. 
NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S CALL ANDREW AT 1881 
$NEED 2 STANFORD$ $GAs x3593$ 
Need 2 PU & 2 BYU GA's Call Lyn 283-4551 
YOU YOU YOU YOU YOU CAN CAN CAN CAN CAN HELP HELP HELP 
I NEED GAs for FAMILY 
PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE HELP HELP HELP 
KYLE 287-9118 THANK THANK THANK YOU YOU YOU 
I desperately need STANFORD TIX! Monique x4042 
have PU GA'S will sell or trade for Stan. GA's +$call Chris 273-2514 
NEED Stanford Tix. Call Matt x1741 
I NEED 1 BC GA, DAVE, x4506 
I need 6 Purdue GA's call Kathleen X4092 
pleeeeeeese! i need 1 or 2 stanford ga's call lisa X4845--leave a message 
BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR PURDUE AND OTHER HOME GAMES. APPROX $30/GAME. JIM 273-9059. 
WILLING TO TRADE: 2 BYU GA'S FOR 2 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S. CALL KATY AT 273-29891 
FOR SALE 2 Married Stud Tix Books Call 271-7197 
I need 2 Purdue GAs. Decent $ for decent tix; good $for good tix. Rich, leave a message 233-9279 
I need 2-3 GA's for the Stanford game. Will pay lots of cash. Angel x2545 
PURDUE GA'S 4SALE CALL PAUL X1240 
I NEED AT LEAST 3 GAs 4 BC GAME CALL TARA X2605 
Purdue GAs for sale 271 1168 
I Need 1 Purdue GA 271-8139 
Need Pur. & Stan. GA's Call Mike #1151 Leave msg. 
Have 2 BYU tix, need 2 BC tix. Will swap. Call (201) 487-9000. 
Need 4 PITT tix!l! Call Pete (1-800-322-0228) 
I've got GAs to all games-cheap! Bert@ 1248 
$$$$NEED PENN STATE TIX$$$ Student tix or GA's. Call x2998. 
I need 2 STANFORD GAs If you can help, call Chris at X2033 
Personal 
Hey Niff 
JUDGEMENT DAY IS COMING!!! GET THE T-SHIRT!!! 
see CLASS/page 22 

r--------------~-----------------~-1 
page 20 The Observer 
,-.,-.,-,r,,-rM"j;-;;-";f"":r; e 0
-~ -:---. ·-··-....
0 e • 0 e ·-' _,. -'1 ··.1--1-JL•i !! ··.. L_I • e 0 
----. 
MLB STANDINGS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
RTS

East Division w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Toronto 89 64 .582 z-6-4 Lost 1 
49-27 40-37 Milwaukee 85 67 .559 3112 z-8-2 Won 2 49-28 36-39 Baltimore 83 68 .550 5 
5-5 Won 1 41-35 42-33 Cleveland 72 79 .477 16 
Z-6-4 Won 2 38-36 34-43 New York 72 80 .474 161/2 3-7 Lost 1 39-38 33-42 Detroit 72 81 .471 17 z-6-4 Won 1 35-40 37-41 Boston 67 85 .441 21112 2-8 Lost 3 41-36 26-49 Wast Division 

·.·.... and Women's National Catholic Cross 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away 48-27 44-33
Oakland 92 60 .605 z-7-3 Lost 2 L\iiQWrm·v•-••• Championship at Burke Memorial Golf 
Minnesota 84 68 .553 8 z-5-5 Lost 1 44-30 40-38 
4:15p.m.

Chicago 82 69 .543 9112 7-3 Won 2 48-30 34-39 Texas 73 80 .477 
191/2 z-4-6 Won 1 35-43 38-37 California 67 84 .444 241/2 3-7 Lost 3 37-37 30-47 
n's Soccer at Indiana, 7:00 p.m. 
Kansas City 67 84 .444 241/2 z-5-5 Lost 1 42-35 25-49 Seattle 58 94 .382 34 2-8 Won 1 34-41 24-53 
Saturday

NATIONAL LEAGUE 
East Division Women's Volleyball, Tournament 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Lost 2 50-28 39-35 at William &MaryPittsburgh 89 63 .586 z-7-3 
Montreal 83 69 .546 6 4-6 
Won 1 40-37 43-32 St. Louis 76 75 .503 
12112 5-5 Lost 1 39-35 37-40 
14 5-5 Lost 2 40-35 35-42 Football vs. Purdue, 12:35 p.m. 
Chicago 75 77 .493 
New York 69 82 .457 19112 Z-6-4 Won 2 38-36 
31-46
.. 
25-49
Philadelphia 62 88 .413 26 Z-4-6 Won 3 37-39 
Sunday

West Division w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Women's Volleyball, Tournament 
Atlanta 91 61 .599 4-6 Lost 1 46-28 45-33 
51-24 34-43 at William &Mary
Cincinnati 85 67 .559 6 8-2 Won 7 
San Diego 79 73 .520 12 3-7 
Won 44-34 35-39 Houston 73 80 .477 18 112 z-6-4 Lost 42-33 31-47 San Francisco 68 85 .444 231/2 
4-6 Won 41-37 27-48 Los Angeles 61 91 .401 30 4-6 Lost 37-40 24-51 z-denotes first game was a win. TRANSACTIONS BASEBALL American League
AMERICAN LEAGUE
NATIONAL LEAGUE BASKETBALL CLEVELAND iNDIANS-Announced that Thursday's Games Thursday's Games National Basketball Association Charlotte of the International League will be 
San Francisco 4, Atlanta 0 Late games not inlcuded HOUSTON ROCKETS-Signed Wayne Tin­their Triple A affiliate. 
San Diego 7, Houston 1 Detroit at New York, (n) kle, center, to a one-year contract. 
DETROIT TIGERS-Renewed their devel­

Pittsburgh at Montreal, (n) Cleveland at Boston, (n) Continental Basketball Association opmental agreement with Niagara Falls of the 
Chicago at Philadelphia, (n) Toronto at Baltimore, (n) FORT WAYNE FURY-Signed Daimon New York-Penn League for two years.
California at Milwaukee, (n) 
New York at St. Louis, (n) Sweet, guard. 
KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Agreed to terms 

Cincinnati at Los Angeles, (n) Oakland at Chicago, (n) RAPID CITY THRILLERS-Signed Anthony with Hal McRae, manager, on a one-year
Friday's Games Seattle at Kansas City, (n) Houston, guard. 
contract. Extended their working agreement
St. Louis (Osborne 10-8 and Clark 3-10) at Only games scheduled ROCKFORD LIGHTNING-Signed Mario 
with the Omaha of the American Association 
Philadelphia (Schilling 13-10 and Ashby 1-3), 2, Friday's Games Donaldson, guard. 
for two years.
Toronto (Cone 3-2) at New York (Perez 12-SIOUX FALLS SKYFORCE-Acquired Ron­5:35p.m. 
National League
Chicago (Maddux 19-11) at Montreal (Hill16-15), 7:30p.m. nie Coleman, forward, from the Fargo-Moor­HOUSTON ASTROS-Activated Mark Portu­Boston (Viola 12-12) at Baltimore (Lefferts 0-head Fever for a 1993 third-round draft pick. 
9), 7:35p.m. 

gal, pitcher, from the 60-day disabled list. 
New York (Fernandez 13-10) at Pittsburgh 2), 7:35p.m. WICHITA FALLS TEXANS-Acquired Elston 
National Hockey League
(Tomlin 13-8), 7:35p.m. Cleveland (Miicki 0-1) at Detroit (Gullickson Turner, forward, from the Fargo-Moorhead CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS-Announced a
Atlanta (Avery 11-10) at San Diego (Gr.Harris 14-12), 7:35p.m. Fever for a 1993 fourth-round draft pick. 
working agreement with St. Thomas of the
2-8), 10:15 p.m. Oakland (Stewart 12-9) at Milwaukee (Bones Global Basketball Association Colonial Hockey League. 
Houston (Bowen 0-6) at Los Angeles 8-9), 8:05p.m. GREENVILLE SPINNERS-Named Clyde 
MONTREAL CANADIENS-Assigned Fred­California (Valera 8-10) at Chicago (Alvarez 

(Ke.Gross 7-13), 10:35 p.m. Mayes coach. 
eric Chabot, goaltender, and Eric Charron,
Cincinnati (Belcher 13-14) at San Francisco 5-3), 8:05p.m. FOOTBALL defenseman, to Fredericton of the American
(Rogers 0-1), 10:35 p.m. Kansas City (Reed 2-7) at Minnesota National Football League Hockey League. Sent Jim Campbell, forward,
(Erickson 13-10), 8:05p.m. LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Resigned to Hull of the Quebec Major Junior HockeyNapoleon McCallum, running back. Waived League.
Thomas Benson, linebacker. 
The University of Notre Dame Warmly Welcomes 
Michael P. Esposito, 
r. 
Executive Vice President 
Chase Manhattan Bank and Alumnus of The University of Notre Dame 
Mr. Esposito is hosting a reception on September 30, at the University Club, Upper Level, from 6 to 8 p.m., and warmly extends an invitation to all students and faculty who are interested in a discussion about career opportunities in finance at Chase. 
The Observer page 21 
Men's X-Country hosts Invitational 
Friday, September 25, 1992 

Women to fend for 
Catholics title 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
Junior All-American Mike McWilliams will lead the Irish at this 
weekend's National Catholic Meet here at Notre Dame. 
"Don't Pout Marty, There's Other Fish In The Sea" 

Special to the Observer 
olf se.r•ambl 
The women's cross country•The.. tournament is open team plays host to the annual
Sign up as an individual or in pairs.·Elnt1\icii'3J~d~n1ti: 
National Catholic champi­
by September 23. 
onships Friday at the Univer­NO Varsity Hockey is looking for statisticians and vidoot,tiJ)I~tSI 
sity's Burke Memorial Golf
the upcoming season. Anyone interested please · Course. The meet is scheduled Jim Johnson at 239-5227. 
to begin at 4:15p.m. Featured
Irish Youth Hockey League is looking for ND students 
squads include the Irish, Loy­coach or assist coaches ~in~ the upcoming hockey season. 
ola, De Paul, Marquette andcontact Scott Gosselin at 271-7414. 
LaSalle.
ND/SMC Field Hockey will hold practice on September 23, Last year, the Irish finishedand 30 at 9 p.m. for all interested. For more information, call third at the National Catholic
283-2670. 
meet. Last year's First and
NO Ski Team and Club will have a mandatory meeting 
second-place winners, Provi­MJ>tm:nn•er 29 at 8 p.m. in Room 127 MSA. All interested in dence and Boston College, are are welcome. Bring checkbooks for deposits not returning this year and thetuttle:ne(:ks. Questions? Call Chris at 273-2958. 
Irish are expected to make a
sports writers need to attend a 
strong run at the title. IrishSeptember 28 in the LeMans 
helmsman, Tim Connelly, is looking to the meet with enthusiasm. 
"We have a job to do 

and now we have to go out and do it,"says Connelly. "If we ;;I (j'UTSI'PIM{_O '.JL'ECl'T!liL 1JfY 
The Department of Music Presents 
run as aggressively as we did against Georgetown, we should have a good shot at winning
o/ictoria %uslif(atk.9{ 
INTERLOCHEN ARTS ACADEMY 
WORKS BY BACH, GLINKA, GIOPlN, AND SCHUMANN 
Volunteer.
Sunday September 27 2:00p.m. 
American Heart 
Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art 
-
Association

$5 General Admission, $2 Students and Senior Citizens 


Welcome
Nick's 
Irish Fans. 
?~~~~Restaurant 
.9ln f£ating f£zyerience 
lnr 
Come see us for
1710 N. Ironwood 
• Breakfast served all day.
277-7400 Open 24 Hours •Lunch •Dinner 
<:.­


for Marquette and Notre Dame to battle it out in the first 300 meters. Coach Piane predicts that Marquette will have an ex­plosive start in order to estab­lish position early on. 
The fast start has been a tra­ditional tactic for Marquette. The Warriors will come on strong with their eyes on the prize of being National Catholic Champions. With 5 seniors on the team, this year is the year to do it. 
Piane believes that beyond the Championship itself, many of the runners are on a per­sonal mission to topple the Fighting Irish. But it will take more than vendettas to defeat Notre Dame. In years past the Irish have owned this race. In fact, a victory tomorrow will be the fourth Irish win in five years. 
However, cross country meets are unpredictable and the winner of this race can only be established at 5:00 tomorrow along the chalk path of Burke Memorial Golf Course. So go out and cheer on the men's varsity cross country team as they make their surge towards the national title. 
BY SEAN SULLIVAN 

Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's cross country team will collide with 21 other Catholic colleges and universities in the 13th annual National Catholic Cross Country Championships tomorrow at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. The Irish, who are currently ranked number six in the nation, look good coming into this meet. 
The All-American tandem of junior Mike McWilliams and senior captain John Coyle will be the leadership as well as the arsenal in Friday's attack. McWilliams and Coyle finished 1-2 in the season opener against Georgetown and should be two of the strongest runners in Friday's race. 
Traditionally, the National Catholic Championships has featured intense competition with fantastic finishes. Last year's meet was one of the fastest invitationals at Notre Dame in recent years. 
"Last year the leaders went out like lightning," said Notre Dame head coach Joe Piane. 
John Coyle finished the race with a time of 24:21.5 and Mike McWilliams set his personal record for the home course with a blazing 24:04.6. 
As in years past, the competi­tion will be strong. While re­turning champion Providence will not be at this year's compe­tition, Marquette and Loyola both have excellent teams. Marquette boasts a strong front with five returning seniors. And in James Westphal, Loyola has one of the top individual runners in the country. Last year, against Notre Dame and Providence All-Americans, Westphal won the race by six seconds. 
Coach Piane stressed that for Notre Dame to run an effective race it is important for them to run as a team. In the last meet against Georgetown the Irish stayed together in the fast and intimidating pack formation throughout two and a half miles. While Georgetown may have sprinted out two quick runners initially, they were no match for the onslaught of the Notre Dame seven blazing over the Burke Memorial fairways. 
Once again, fans should ex­pect a hard-fought race. Look 
• -· •• -... ,...a,"") ,...,.t .-\(~ ~~ • I ~ 1~rltf1l)t!5¥:-" '>j1 !~'.l~'t"' 
The Observer Friday, September 25, 1992
page 22 
Class 
continued from page 19 
OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 

SENIORS: Are you disgruntled with dining hall food? Disheartened by the lack of stimulating conversation in your lives? Then join a Senior Rap-Up group! More info and sign-ups at the esc. 
ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Please let us help you in this difficult time. Confidential and legal. Medical expenses paid. Collect anytime. (B1 B) 246­1763 
EVERY FRIDAY IS RESUME DAY 
at The Copy Shop in LaFortune SAVE 20% off copies on our resume paper 

TOP 10 REASONS TO GET SOME PLAY IN THE LYONS HALL VOLLEYBALL TOURNEY 
10. You can't have more fun doing it than doing it for charity. 
9. You'll have a chance to put both wrists together for something besides handcuffs. 
B. You don't have to be "21" to be served. 
7. You can work on your tan ... Not. 

6. You can stay on the team regardless of how many donations you receive from ND Alumni. 
5. It's not covered in Dulac. 

4. You might never have a chance to see Lyonite's legs through black net. 
3. You don't have to wait for an SYR to be set up. 
2. Get to spike a Lyonite ... You'll really dig it! 
1. It may be your only chance to score at ND! 
GORGEOUS, HAPPY BIRTHDAY. I HOPE WE CAN BE TOGETHER FOREVER SOON. LOVE, HANDSOME 
HEY HONEY, Two years ago tomorrow began the best days of my life. In nine months, we'll be together as man and wife. You are the best! Your S&S honey 
Attractive and physically well-endowed Notre Dame student with good personality needs a date tor Oct. 1 0 SYR. I will provide transportation, beverages, and hours of fun whoever answers this ad. This is not a joke. I really need a date. You can call me AI. .. 
at 2B3-2703. 

SMC SENIORS This could be your last chance ... 
THE CRUSH anonymous invitations are sent to as many men as you would like. Beer and food provided for the casual 
gathering! Oct. 2, 1992 5-10pm King's Hall/ Castle Point Tickets on sale at Haggar through Wed. Sept. 30th (11-1pm). 
MUST BE 21! 

HEY SMURF CREW! You forgot a few from MSU! 10.Do you where your sunglasses at night?( only in brights at night) 9.1t's a long, convoluted, tell-tale story-don't ask! B.So, your team won...what a Chuck! ?.Riding a little high on the cheek-YANK­thanx for the show! 6.ex-KE-use me! 5.Uey! Uey! Uey! 4.Hey, Notre Dame, can you catch a pass­yes, but you dropped the ball. 3.So, how many MSU fans can we piss off? 2.Are we there yet Papa Smurf? Not yet my little smurfs! 1.so ... how bout Pitt? THANX FOR A GREAT TIME! 
Luv, Papetta Smurf and the Navigator (aka Biondi & E.D.) 

David -Two years ago, we shared our first kiss. Nine months from now, we share a new life. Happy anniversary, honey. I will love you forever. Tanya 9/26 
YOHOMEPISS Jager and 151 after mid-nile 

the MAN IN THE MOON says HI to the GIRL IN THE WORLD (oh ... and he's SMILING!) 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KID !! YES, YOU CHRIS DINSMORE! ...ONE YEAR CLOSER TO PUBERTY! 
-INDY -BLADES -RB

.. -SEAN 
-ANTHONY -ANNA -STACEY -AND ALL THOSE GIRLS IN YOUR DREAMS 5 VERY LARGE MEN will hurt me if I don't have GAs for them when they come for the BC game. Please help. Jenn x4059. 
SHORT ON CASH ? Stop by MORRISSEY LOAN Mon.-Fri.: 11:30-12:30 1st Floor LaFortune O'Hara Lounge 
30 day loans up to $250 @ 1% interest 

MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR FREE HAIRCUTS. CALL COSIMO'S 277-1B75. 
MARGE 

Attention! Earn $25001 Students, Greeks, Clubs Earn Free Spring Break Trip After Selling Only B Trips At Your School! SpringBreak 1-B00-67B-63B6. 
SPRING BREAK '93-SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREEIII Student Travel Services is now hiring campus representatives. Ski packages also available. CALL 1-B00-648-4B49. 
•••••••HELP!III!I!!I! BEAUTIFUL, BUT DESPARATE, GIRL NEEDS A RIDE HOME TO PHI LA. AREA FOR OCT. BREAK. WILLING TO PAY GAS, TOLLS. CALL LIZ X2373 
Fay. 

Need a ride to Raleigh/Durham area Oct 29-Nov 1? Call Laura x4B01 
Kara, DON'T WORK TOO HARD!!! Which will you remember 20 years from now-a big exam, or an awesome time with friends? 
Your big bro. 

TO OUR PUERTO RICAN LOVER ON THIS MOST HOLY DAY WE HAVE ONLY ONE THING TO SAY LIVE LONG AND PROSPER AND GEORGE BUSH IS GAY FROM 2 BABES WHO WOULD GIVE YOU A QUICK LAY IF RICK WON'T SAY OK 
TO OUR PUERTO RICAN LOVER ON THIS MOST HOLY DAY WE HAVE ONLY ONE THING TO 
SAY­LIVE LONG AND PROSPER AND GEORGE BUSH IS GAY FROM 2 BABES WHO WOULD GIVE YOU A QUICK LAY IF RICK WON'T SAY OK 
TO MY FAVORITE FLANNER FLORIDIAN­WE'RE ALL GOING TO HELL& YOU CAN EAT MY EASY CHEESE ANY TIME. HAVE A HAPPY 1BTH!I!II! 
LOVEG.G. 
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL MEETING SUN SEPT. 27 B-9 pm MONTGOMERY THEATRE 
HEY PEACH! 

WILL YOU HAVE DINNER 
WITH ME SATURDAY ... 

AND THEN WE'LL DO DESERT I LOVE ALWAYS, SNIZZLE 
Closets are for clothes: come out, come out, where-ever you are! 
WANTED: COUNSELINE volunteers needed for Monday-Thursday evening shifts. Call 239-7336 for additional information. 
KATIE YOU'RE SUCH A DORK!!I! LOVE YA! ANNE 
CC­
Won't somebody show me the way to your heart Send me a wise man A book about love My breath has been taken I've been shaken You keep me waiting at the edge of the world 
On a rocky shoreline, like a wind run wild What can I do now You've got me looking through the 
eyes of a child. 

HOW GOOD IS YOUR COLLEGE HEALTH SERVICE? A national magazine is investigating the quality of college health clinics, and would like to hear female students' stories. All names will be kept confidential. Please send a short account of your experience along with your phone 
number to: Box 125, 1275 First Ave. New York, New York 10021. 
HI UNCLE NICK! HI UNCLE NICK! 
Attention Scientists and Engineers! The newly formed SHPEIMAES, thats the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers I Mexican American Engineers and Scientists, is having its first meeting Sept 2B, Monday at 7:30 at 356 Fitzpatrick. This new club has loads to offer and is Super for networking in the professional and corporate world. Come by and see what we are offering to give you! We are inviting 
EVERYONE! 
To the Hungarian: Sorry I couldn't make the football game but something will arise from the reason that I couldn't go. Hugs and Kisses--The Italian 
Jeremy: To the one who is always nght-thanks for Saturday night-I had a great time. Happy Anniversary! 
Love always, Meg han (the one who is never wrong) 
GO WALSH Beat BP! Good Luck Walshites in Sunday's Game! 


PROCTER & GAMBLE 

The people of Procter & Gamble present an overview of our Finance organization and employment opportunities within it. 
We want you to learn more about us so we
FINANCE 
can learn more about you. 
NOTRE DAME RECRUITING 
INFORMATION PRESENTATION WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29,1992 NOTRE DAME ROOM LaFORTUNE 7:00 9:00P.M. 
CASUAL DRESS APPROPRIATE 
INTERVIEW DATES SEPTEMBER 30 I OCT. 1, 1992 

--.

~-------·--~~~-----------.._..~-----~-­
------~ ----------­
------------~-~--~~-~-~~ 
Friday, September 25, 1992 The Observer page 23 
California ruins No. 24 Kansas' perfect season, 27-23 
Fry wary of Colorado's Stewart-led aerial assault 
LAWRENCE, Kan. (AP) ­Dave Barr accounted for two touchdowns and Russell White smashed Chuck Muncie's school all-purpose running record Thursday night, lifting California past No. 24 Kansas 27-23 in the Jayhawks' first game as a ranked team in 16 years. 
The Bears (2-1),-7-point un­derdogs, dominated Kansas along the line of scrimmage and never trailed while holding their hosts from the Big Eight Conference 27 points below their season average. 
Kansas (3-1) closed to within 
BOULDER, Colo. (AP) -Iowa coach Hayden Fry calls Cole orado quarterback Kordell Stewart "just a tremendous all­around athlete" who is not only uncommonly fast for a quar­
/n the past two years, GE has hired more Notre Dame grads than ever before. Why? Just look in the mirror. There's a lot of talent 
under the Dome. 

Stop by the Placement Office and get all the details. 

Invitational Sign-up: 
September 28 -29 
Open Sign-up: October 12-13 
Fast •Creative • Competitive An equal opportunity employer Campus Interviews: November 5-6 
Arthur Andersen presents 
Men & Women as Colleagues 
Food & drink will be provided Dress is casual 
20-17 on Maurice Douglas' 31­yard touchdown run with 4:22 left in the third period following Charley Bowen's 21-yard in­terception return, and moments later Dan Eichloff tried a 4 7­yard field goal that could have tied it. 
But Brad Bowers blocked the kick and the ball rolled to the Kansas 40. Six plays later, Barr's 11-yard touchdown pass to Sean Dawkins restored the Bears' 10-point lead. 
The Jayhawks came right back and fooled the Bears on a halfback option pass from Matt Gay to Rodney Harris that cov­
terback but is "faster than any running back we've ever had here." 
According to Fry, Stewart also is an "avid weightlifter who squats over 500 pounds, which 
ASTRONG 

PARTNERSHIP 

AND 

There's a lot of talent at GE, too. Couple this talent with technology leadership, strong financial perfonnance and a management team second to none and you've got the recipe for a truly world­class company. 
Monday, September 28, 1992 7:00pm Monogram Room 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN 

ARTHUR ANDERSEN"& Co sc 
ered 33 yards to the end zone. A try for two points failed, leav­ing California with a four-point lead with 8:13 left. 
White, who ran for 153 yards in 39 carries, surpassed Muncie's all-purpose record of 4,194. 
The Bears led 13-10 at half­time and went ahead 20-10 on Barr's 1-yard run with 7:02 left in the third quarter. 
Kansas quarterback Chip Hilleary, who entered the game averaging more than 237 yards on offense, didn't complete a pass until 8:00 of the second 
is what our top linemen do." 
After handing out such acco­lades, how does Fry intend to stop Stewart when his Hawkeyes invade No. 10 Col­orado on Saturday? 
quarter and only Cal mistakes kept Kansas within three points at halftime. 
White went over left guard for 33 yards to the Jayhawks 17 early in the first quarter. But Barr's pass on second and 5 was tipped in the air by Kyle Moore and intercepted by Larry Thiel. 
The Bears were driving early in the second quarter when Kansas' Robert Vaughn intercepted Barr's pass on second and 15 and returned it 11 yards to the Cal44. 
Barr hit Mike Caldwell for 11 yards on third and 9 on the 
"I hope he doesn't play," Fry said. 
No such luck, Hayden. 
Stewart, who missed last week's 21-20 victory over Min­nesota because of a sprained foot, will return to the starting role on Saturday. 
"Kordell's looking good," coach Bill McCartney said at mid-week. "He'll definitely start. He's moving better and he's throwing well. By Saturday, hopefully, the injury won't be ' noticed." 
Before his injury, Stewart was the nation's second-ranked passer, having completed 37 of 53 passes for 660 yards with seven touchdowns and one in­terception. He missed the sec­ond half of the Baylor game in Week 2, and was left at home last week as junior Duke Tobin faltered in the first half before true freshman Koy Detmer ­the brother of 1990 Heisman Trophy winner Ty Detmer ­rallied the Buffs with two sec­ond-half t6uchdown passes .. 
In case anyone thought Col­orado suddenly had a quarter­back controversy, however, McCartney emphasized that Stewart remains his starter, although Detmer is "very obvi­ously in the picture now." 
Quarterback, regardless of who mans the position, isn't a worry for McCartney. There are these matters of a disappearing running attack and an unexpectedly vulnerable de­fense. 
When it operated out of the wishbone and variations second possession of the second quarter and two plays later I found Dawkins down the right sideline for 3 7 yards to the 
l
Kansas 17. The drive stalled at 
1 
the 15 and Doug Brien made it I 10-0 with a 33-yard field goal. 1 
l 1
The Jayhawks then mounted their only drive of the half, zip­
l
ping 80 yards in six plays. Hil­leary hit Gay for consecutive gains of 14 and 25 to the Cal 1 
28. Then, fading back to pass, he was driven out of the pocket and bobbed and weaved into the end zone with 1:33 remain­! ing in the half. 
l 
thereof, Colorado consistently 
ranked among the nation's 
rushing leaders. But this year, 
the Buffaloes are averaging only 
102.3 yards per game on the ground -a figure that ranks last in the Big Eight and 94th in the country. 
"Where did all that go?" a mystified McCartney asks. "What happened to it? Is there no carryover? I thought we took a step backwards (against Minnesota)." . 
As for the defense, a veteran­laden unit which was expected to carry the load while the of­fense adapted to its new pass­oriented attack, it has suffered from missed assignments, sloppy tackling and a tendency l to give up big plays. 1 
l
"I'm proud that our defense 
j
showed good resolve and in­
l 
tensity and the ability to con­tinue to play hard after 97 plays l (last week), which is a lot," l McCartney said. "Our backs were pinned for a good portion 
l
of the game. But, no, I'm not satisfied by a long shot. I know l we can play better defense." 
The Hawkeyes (1-2) figure to provide the Buffs (3-0) with their best test so far. 
"Iowa is a powerful football team, far superior to the teams we've just played," McCartney said. "Their offensive line is made up of fifth-year seniors who are extremely well-devel­oped physically. They play well together. Their quarterback (Jim Hartlieb) is a very accurate passer who is hitting on 66 percent of his throws. Danan Hughes is a legitimate first­round draft choice as a receiver. We've got big problems matching up with him. 
"They've got weapons on both sides of the ball. They'll contend for the Big 10 title. They're stung a little bit right now because they lost two big games, but this is the kind of team that can beat any team in the nation." 
The Hawkeyes, losers to North Carolina State 24-14 and top-ranked Miami 24-7, re­bounded to beat Iowa State 21­7 two weeks ago. They were _, idle last week. 
There is a need in your own hometown. Please join your local chapter. 

..._ 
American Red Cross 

~--~---~---­
Washington State receiver suspeneded 
PULLMAN, Wash. (AP) ­Washington State wide receiver Phillip Bobo has been suspended for Saturday's game against Fresno State because of a shoplifting charge, Cougars coach Mike Price said Thursday. 
Bobo was arrested Wednesday night at a Pullman supermarket and faces a third-degree theft charge. 
Price said sophomore Albert Kennedy will replace Bobo in the starting lineup. 
I 
Bobo, a junior from Moreno 
Valley, Calif., is tied for the 
~ 
Pacific-1 0 Conference lead in 
I 
I 
I f 
' 
' I 
J 
~ 
' l 
' ~ ' 
' 
I ~ 
' I t 
! 
~ ---~----­

The Observer Friday, September 25, 1992 
Norris, Brown ready for title fight 

LAS VEGAS (AP) ~ Sugar Ray Leonard, who was battered into retirement by Terry Norris, says he doesn't like Norris' style. 
Not Norris' boxing style, his hairstyle. 
"I think he can become a star if he gets a new haircut," Leonard said recently of the fighter who knocked him down twice and easily outpointed over 12 rounds on Feb. 9, 1991. 
Norris laughed on hearing of Sugar Ray's opinion and said he will not give up his habit of shaving a message into the back of his head. 
"Knockout" was the message, Norris carried into the ring for his last fight aginst Meldrick Taylor last May 9. 
The 25-year-old Norris stopped Taylor in the fourth round of his seventh defense of the WBC super welterweight ti­tle. 
''I'll have something," Norris said Thursday when asked what the barbered message would be Saturday night when he fights Simon Brown, who is moving up in weight in a bi.d for 
receptions this season with 14  
catches.  Bobo has started the last 23  
He has gained 132 receiving  games for the Cougars.  
yards with one touchdown this  
season.  


THE 

~O~DUE P~l.o 
Featuring '-k Beef, Chicken, Seafood and Vegetarian Fondue Entrees 
And Our Famous Flaming Chocolate Dessert 
' 

Upper Level Old Brewery 100 Center Complex, Mishawaka • Phone: 255-1526 Tue.-Thur. 5-9 p.m. • Fri.-Sat. 5-10 p.m. 
Reservations Appredated 
25% off! KNUTE ROCKNE 
& 

MANY AUTUMNS AGO 
FIRDAY 9/25/92 
& 

SATURDAY 9/26192 
********************** **********************' 
Special Hours Saturday 8 a.m. -6 p.m. 
The Hammes 
. NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" 
a second world title. 

Norris was a 6-1 favorite in the 12-round bout at the Cae­sars Palace Sports Pavilion. 
"I've been in tough fights be­fore; now I'm really going to be in a tough fight," said the 28­year-old Brown, who lost the WBC welterweight title when he was outpointed by James "Buddy" McGirt last Nov. 29. 
"I know he's a tough fighter," Norris said. "He has a lot of power like Mugabi and Jack­son." 
Norris won a share of the 154­pound title when he knocked out John "The Beast" Mugabi in the first round March 31, 1990. 
That was his second champi­onship bid. In the first, he was making Julian Jackson look foolish until he went to the ropes and got cute in the sec­ond round of the WBC junior middleweight title match. 
"I got a little too cocky," Norris recalled of the knockout loss. "He caught me with a good shot. It was lesson." 
It was lesson taken to heart. The speedy boxer-puncher has won 12 straight, six by knock­out. 
Brown has fought once and won since his loss to McGirt, which snapped a 13-fight win­ning streak that included seven successful title defenses. 
He spent five days in a hospital for treatment of dehydration a(ter the McGirt fight. 
"I had problems making weight," Brown said of the 14 7­pound welterweight limit. "But it was always one more fight. I did everything my body would do to make the weight. When you don't have body to perform even if the mind and heart want to.... 
"I think he will be much stronger," Norris said. "That's a thing that's been on my mind. If he was weak at 147, he'll be more comfortable at 154." 
Norris has a 32-3 record, with 18 knockouts. Brown, whose style is to force the action, has a 36-2 record, with 27 knockouts. 

Kristen Rossigno 
Wants You! 
To Wish Her a Happy 21~ 
Love, Your Fanclub S,N,E,M,P,E 


--~~--~--~~~·-.-r-~--~----------.··~----.·-----·--~~---­
The Observer page 25 


builds on y ur skills and moti­tion. Like extensive training. . Responsibility. And the 
of ~ offices worldwide:¥' ..... into Arthur Andersen. It's exactly what you need to stay ahead. 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO., S.C. 
. 

ALL ACCOUNTING F! KE..... 
• 

~--~ -~~----~-------­
page 26 The Observer Friday, September 25, 1992 
Cubs, Cards to remain in East 
Owners' committee nixs Vincent's reallignment 
NEW YORK (AP) -Baseball's executive council rescinded Na­tional League realignment Thursday, a move that was ex­pected following the resignation of commissioner Fay Vincent. 
The Chicago Cubs, who are owned by the Tribune Co., had obtained a preliminary injunc­tion blocking realignment, which would have moved the Cubs and St. Louis Cardinals to the NL West and the Atlanta Braves and Cincinnati Reds to the NL East. 
During the maneuvering that forced Vincent from office on Sept. 7, some owners were said to have promised the Cubs they would move for realignment to be withdrawn if the commis­sioner was forced out. 
David Hiller, vice president and general counsel of the Tri­bune Co., said the action was taken by the executive council on Wednesday evening. The Cubs and lawyers for the commissioner's office filed a joint motion Thursday dismiss­ing the lawsuit, and U.S. District Judge Suzanne B. Conlon dis­solved the injunction and va­cated her July 23 decision, meaning it cannot be used as precedent. 
The 10-person executive council rules the major leagues when the commissioner's office is vacant. Bud Selig of the Mil­waukee Brewers, the council's chairman, denied earlier Thursday that realignment was withdrawn, then issued a statement praising the settle­ment. 
"I consider this an extremely positive development for base­ball," Selig said. "We can move forward to resolve the realign­ment issue through consensus rather than confrontation, which is the approach I would like to take to each and every problem confronting the game today." 
After the Cubs obtained the injunction, the situation was further clouded by the San Francisco Giants' proposed move to St. Petersburg, Fla .. an issue still unresolved. On Aug. 31, Vincent said he gave the NL permission to issue a 1993 schedule without realignment because of pressure from the Major League Baseball Players Association, which has the con­tractual right to demand a draft by July 1. The NL then issued its schedule to clubs on Sept. 2. 
The executive council on Thursday appointed a commit­tee of six owners and the two league presidents to "examine all aspects of divisional align­ment, scheduling and possible new formats." 
Bill Giles of the Philadelphia Phillies, who was named to the panel, said "it seems to me that we probably will have some­thing by January or February." 
"We have to look at more creative things, see if there's any consensus on three 
divisions,  an extra round of  
playoffs.  interleague  play,  
possibly  switching  teams  

between leagues," Giles said. The National League voted 
. 10-2 for realignment on March 4, but the Cubs vetoed the move, a right granted in the league constitution to all teams involved in proposed shifts. Six clubs requested that Vincent use his "best interests" power under the Major League Agreement, and the commis­sioner ordered realignment on July 6. 
The Cubs, concerned that a switch to the NL West would cause them to play more West Coast night games -and thus 
Clements enters Winnipeg Hall 

WINNIPEG, Manitoba (AP)­Tom Clements, the quarterback coach at Notre Dame, was added to the Winnipeg Blue Bombers Hall of Fame on Thursday. 
Clements was a quarterback Bombers in 1983, after playing for Ottawa, Saskatchewan and Hamilton. 
for Lea the gue  Canadian team, joi Football ning the every year.  
UNIVERSITY RESUME ~!:!~~;nkai/Creative Wdting  

He played for five years with Winnipeg, was twice the CFL's all-star quarterback and took the Bombers to the playoffs decrease advertising revenue for the Tribune Co. on its su­perstation, WGN -sued the following day. Conlon granted the injunction and a hearing on the commissioner's attempt to lift it was scheduled for Sept. 30 before the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. 
In the interim, Vincent re­signed under pressure, partly because of the manuevering by the Cubs. Vincent said Thursday he didn't have any comments on the withdraw!. 
"This was clearly a prudent and reasonable course of action in light of the fact that baseball recently empowered a commit­tee to examine the entire issue of divisional alignment," Selig said in his statement. "Furthermore, because the deadline for establishing the 1993 National League schedule have already passed, it is not possible to realign for the com­ing season. These factors have given baseball a welcome op­portunity to examine this diffi­cult question without undue haste and in the spirit of coop­eration, rather than forcing the issue in the courts." 
Stanton Cook, chairman of the Tribune Co., did not return a telephone call to his office, but issued a statement saying "we are pleased that this matter has been resolved." 
"We look forward to working with all the other clubs to ex­plore the issues of league alignment for the future," Cook said. 
In addition to Giles, other members of the new committee are Cook, John Harrington of the Boston Red Sox, Eddie Ein­horn of the Chicago White Sox, Richard Jacobs of the Cleveland Indians, Stanton Cook of the Atlanta Braves. 
Giants'"''!move still on hold 
NEW YORK (AP) -The chairman of ba$~ball's owner­ship committee.~aid Thursday his group expects to make a recommendation soon on the proposed move of the San Francisco Giants to St. Peters~ burg, Fla. 
Fred Kuhlmann of the St. Louis Cardinals wouldn't say what he· meatttby soonrbut others said a decision could come in the next two weeks. 
A group led by Vincent J. Naimoli bas offered to buy the team from Bob Lurie for $115 million-of which $10 million would be loaned back by Lurie. A group led by .Charlotte Hor~ nets owner George Shlnn s<tid it intends to make a counteroffer that would keep the Giants in San Francisco, but hasn't made a formal prop()Sal to tb.(;} Na~ 
tional League. ··· · 
"We're going to be very shortly making a decision with regard to recop:tmendation," Kuhlmann said from St. Louis. 
"Then it will be up to Bud Selig on how he wants to handle it from there." 
Selig, who owns the Milwau­kee Brewers, is chairman of baseball's executive council, which is exercising the powers of the commissioner following the resignation of Fay Vincent. Selig has not given a timetable for deciding the Giants' fate. 
"There needs to be a lot ol thought and a lot of considera~ tion," Selig said Thursday. "lt's just been discussed a little.'; 
Stacy Walters, a spokeswoman for San Francisco Mayor Frank M. Jordan, said Shinn's group was still awaiting receipt of the Giants' financial records, a step necessary before a formal offer is made. 
"We not yet been given per­mission by baseball to release those records," Giants spokesman Duffy Jennings said. 


On September 27t11 This Dillonite Turns 21! 
Happy Birthday, 
Andrew Love, Dad, Mom, Joe and David 

1625 N. Michigan St. Plymouth 219-936-5840 
Friday, September 25, 1992 The Observer page 27 
Study critical of college hiring 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Only as men's basketball coaches do minorities hold more than a handful of the top sports jobs at major NCAA schools, the Gen­eral Accounting Office said in a report to be released Friday. 
"Except for historically black schools, minorities rarely held athletic department positions at Division I schools," the watch­dog agency said in a report to Congress. "Head coach of men's basketball was the position most frequently held by minorities." 
The GAO, which surveyed all 298 Division I schools, found only one traditionally non-black college that had a black head football coach in the 1990-91 school year. 
And that was Dennis Green at Stanford, who resigned to be­come head coach of the NFL's Minnesota Vikings. 
The agency also found only one school where a woman was the athletic director for both men's and women's sports programs -Merrily Dean Baker at Michigan State. 
The survey showed that foot­ball coaches enjoyed the highest pay, averaging $114,759. Women's basketball coaches had the lowest, $44,996, com­pared with an average total pay package of $110,180 for men's basketball coaches. 
However, when comparing the salaries of men and women who coach women's basketball, women came out ahead. Their average pay was $47,356 com­pared with $41,279 for male coaches of women's teams. 
Fourteen percent of the tradi­tionally non-black schools had black basketball coaches, ac­cording to the survey, but fewer than 5 percent of them had minority athletic directors or as directors of the women's sports programs. About 8 percent of 256 non-black schools that responded to the survey had minorities coaching their women's basketball teams. 
Rep. Cardiss Collins, D-Ill., who requested the study as chairwoman of the House commerce and consumer pro­tection subcommittee, said it confirms the poor record of col­lege athletic departments in putting blacks and women into their top jobs. 
"Employment practices for minorities at major colleges and universities is worse than the dismal record of professional baseball and football," she said. 
Jones scapegoat for Bengals' defensive woes 
CINCINNATI (AP)-Cincin­nati Bengals cornerback Rod Jones, who has received some of the blame for Sunday's loss to Green Bay, says he's used to being a punching bag. 
Jones says 'it's a self-perpetu­ating effect;of his unwanted nickname, "'Toast," A Tampa radio station came up with the moniker during Jones' days with the Buccaneers. 


Sund~y's game have criticized "Rod didn't have to physically Jones' performance on two key re"route th(;} receiver because passes in the winning drive by the receiver·broke inside, then the Green Bay Packers. went outside," Lynn said. "Rod's 
But Bengals defensive coordi-job was to not let him get nator Ron Lynn came to Jones' outside at the start, to fall o defense on Wednesday. and cushion a deep throw into 
Rod ¢ayed it the way we the corner. I don't mean into asked him to playit," Lynnsaid~ the corner of the end zone, but "I have no complaints about the along the sideline in the 18~19 way Rod played;" yard area. 
That's .a. Mitle different from "Rod was at least 18 yards 
deep and still running down the 
field when the pass was made. I 
have no qualms with what he 
did." 

Fernandus Vinson, the safety charged with covering the deep area, overreacted to a fake to the middle, a move that left him unable to get back to the 
registered 13 shutouts during his career, just nine short of Notre Dame's all-time record. 
Senior captain Mario Tricoci anchors the defense in front of Bader, and they will face quite a challenge tonight. 
"We are a different team de­fensively than the last time we played them," Berticelli said. "We have improved defensively, but we still need to be better." 
The Irish have shown im­provement on both sides of the ball this year. Freshmen Bill Lanza and Eric Ferguson have bolstered the offense, along with junior Mike Palmer and senior Kevin Pendergast. Pen­dergast's early-season scoring barrage has lifted him into the Top 10 on Notre Dame's career goal-scoring list with 27 career goals. 
"We are a much better team than we were a month ago," Berticelli added. "But so is In­diana, so we will have to be prepared for a tough game tonight." 
Before you take another bite, think about the fact that a diet high in cholesterol and fat can load your blood with cholesterol, which raises your chance of heart attack. In fact, more Americans may die by the fork than by any other weapon. 

American Heart Association WE'RE FIGHTING FOR 
YOUR LIFE 

This space provided as a public service. 


....--------------­
The Observer Friday, September 25, 1992
page 28 

Winfield sets RBI mark
Pirates all but wrap up East 
BALTIMOHE (AP) -Dave win. Ben McDonald (12-13). 
MONTREAL (AP) Pittsburgh virtually wrapped up its third successive NL East title as Doug Drabek pitched his fourth consecutive complete game and Barry Bonds hit a three-run homer for the 9-3 victory. 
The victory moved the Pirates seven games ahead of Montreal and reduced Pittsburgh's magic number to three. It was Pittsburgh's 90th victory of the season, the third consecutive year in which the Pirates have won at least 90 games. 
Drabek (15-1 0) allowed seven hits, struck out four and walked one for his fifth consecutive vic­tory. He is 3-1 against the Ex­pos this season. 
Cecil Espy and Jose _Lind 
Michigan leads Big Ten's search for outside wins 
(AP} Michigan's fourth-ranked 
olverines will be one of the 
ew Big Ten football teams avored to Win this weekend. 
Big Ten te&Jli.SJ"i~v~'iHh13~1 ecord !lgai~st qutslde foes•. his will>he the last week of egular-season intersectional lay before the start of the onference race. 
Michigan takes on a Houston earn that defeated Illinois 31­13 last week, but the Wolver­nes should do a better job against the Cougars than the Illini. Indiana and Wisconsin 
re also favored. 

Indiana takes on Missouri, and Wisconsin is at home against Northern Illinois. 
f 

Iowa, Purdue, Michigan State and Minnesota also will be in 
Women 
continued from page 32 Portland, Stanford, and Wisconsin loom ahead in the 
upcoming week, intensifyingp~·iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~.;;;;;;;;;;;the importance of the Duke game to start the stretch on a 
Great Tastes Begin Here.
positive note. 

"The next four games are very important for us," com­mented Petrucelli as he pre­pared his team for yesterday's practice. "We've had a good week of practice, and I think we're ready." 
Duke will be the first test, and a hard one for the Notre Dame defense. For the first time all season the Irish defenders will be forced to stop a three for­ward attack. 
Petrucelli has inserted Juli£ Yoga! into the defensive line 
moving her from midfielde1 ~f:~tb~~ t~tt~Z~~ combat th£
1 

Sophomore Heidi Durham iE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~! 
the leader of that unit, after to­taling seven goals, five assists, and nineteen points a year ago. 
Offensively the Irish will be facing a tough Duke defense, led by goalkeeper Gretchen Young. The junior started in fourteen games last season, averaging only 1.66 goals per game. 
Notre Dame will attempt to use its speed to counter the Blue Devil defense. Sophomore Jodi Hartwig, and Freshmen Rosella Guerrero and Hagen Coyne top the list of fleet-footed scorers who will put pressure on Duke. 
"We are going to need to get a 
lot of numbers forward," 
commented Petrucelli. "We 
matchup well with their speed." 
The Irish have had four days 
ofT since their last contest, a 4-1 
win over Dayton, something 
which may work to their ad­
vantage. 

"Everybody's anxious to play added two RBls each as the Pi­rates banged out 14 hits ofT Bill Krueger (0-1) and four reliev­ers. Bonds hit a game-clinching homer in the sixth. 
Phillies 3, Cubs 2 
PHILADELPHIA-Rickey Jor­dan's pinch-hit HBI single fol­lowing a lOth-inning brawl gave Philadelphia a victory over Chicago. 
Darren Daulton Daulton sin­gled ofT Bob Scanlan (3-6) with two outs and went to second when Dave Hollins was hit in the shoulder by a first-pitch fastball. Hollins charged the mound and a bench-clearing brawl ensued, after which Hollins, Scanlan and Cubs' manager Jim Lefebvre were all e·ected. 
rW1& 

Restaurant 
Re•t••r•nt 
Reservations Appreciated 
action, but all font are on the road and are und · · gs. No. 12 Ohio State1 · and Northwestet this week. 
Iowa, afte 

travels to 
....·.. Purdue is at No. otl'e Dame; Michigan State is<a.t No. 25; Boston College and Minnesota has a night game at Pittsburgh. 
Michigan coach Gary Moeller wasn't sure earlier in the week who would start at quarter­back. Elvis Grbac had an ankle injury and missed last week's game. Todd Collins stepped in and threw two touchdown passes in a 35*3 victory over Oklahoma State. 
The lowa*Colorado match 
should be interesting. Colorado 
since we've had so many days off," commented an excited Guerrero. "We know we're good and that we can play with them." 
KickofT time is scheduled for 
7:30. 


INTRODUCTORY OFFER 
EUROTAN BEDS NORMALLY 10 VISITS FOR $4500 3PECIAL lNTRO. OFFER FoR STUDENTS 10 VISITS FOR $35°0 
OFFER EXPIRES OCTOBER 25 
DON'T FORGET ... WE HAVE $8QQ HAIRCUTS AND PERMS STARTING AT $1925. WITH FREE HAIRCUT WITH STUDENT l.D. 
we c.are l1air 
It was the second time in the game that Hollins was hit with a pitch; he leads the majors with 18. Chuck McElroy re­lieved Scanlan and Jordan lined a 3-2 pitch to right field for the game-winning hit. 
Mitch Williams (4-8) pitched two scoreless innings for the win. 
Cardinals 4, Mets 3 
ST. LOUIS-Todd Zeile's bases-loaded single capped a wild 14th inning as St. Louis rallied to beat the Mets. 
The game was scoreless be­fore Jeff Kent's three-run homer ofT Bryn Smith (3-1) put the Mets ahead in the top of the 14th. 
had to come ofT a 17-0 deficit t edge Minnesota 21-20. 
Iowa coach Hayden Fry said, "I didn't think any team could match (No. 1) Miami in speed, but Colorado eomes closel 
Minnesota has faced outstanding quarterbacks the first two weeks and now goes against one of the more prolific passers in the nation in Pitt's Alex Van Pelt. Van Pelt com­pleted 36 of 55 passes for 395 yards and two touchdowns last week, but Pitt lost to Rutgers 21-16. 
Van Pelt surpassed Dan Marino's passing record of 8,597 yards and also completed a school record 91*yard touch­down pass to Dietrich Jells. 
2041 Cassopolis 
Elkhart, IN 

262-1500 
121 S. Niles South Bend, IN 234-9000 
120 N. Main Mishawaka. IN 
255-7737 
Winfield became the oldest player to drive in 100 runs, col­lecting four HBis with a homer and a two-run double for Toronto as they defeated the Orioles 8-2. 
The victory enabled Toronto to stay 3 1/2 games ahead of Milwaukee and open a six­game lead over third-place Baltimore in the AL East. Toronto's magic number is six, four to eliminate the Orioles, who have lost 11 of 17. 
The 40-year-old Winfield has 103 HBis. The previous high by a player in his 40s was 99, by Detroit's Darrell Evans in 1987. 
Winfield's 26th homer gave the Blue Jays a 2-0 first-inning lead. lie then capped a five-run second with a double into the left-field corner to make it 7-0. 
Jimmy Key (12-13) allowed two runs and four hits in six innings for his fourth straight 
WANTED! Anthon Aguilar 
a.k.a. "AGG" 21 Years Old 
CAUTION! Considered Dangerous on September 27m 
Calll~SOO,MQM,NDAD 
c5ainl !Jl(ar_y 's Goffe!le 
7Jeparlmenl ojCommunicaii"on, 7Jance anrf7£ealre 
announces 

7/udilions 
for 

:7a/£ny 1YJ.rlh.. 
by:lane Y/(arlin 
c5eplember 2& cf: 29 7-IOp.m. %n 016 Y?eyina Jfaff 
Xo e_tperience orpreparab'on necessary. Jemale roles ofall!ypes and 
a9es auadabfe. r:Scripfs aua~lable in CO'JJIOffice, 
(II 0 'Jl(oreau, r:5'JJ(C) on ']}{onday, r:Sepfember 2 I. 
Jor more iniJrmab'on, please callfile CO'JJIOffice 2,54-4640 

Jefferson  


Main & Jefferson Hours Mon-Th 11 a.m.-11 p.m. Fri-Sat lla.m. -II p.m. 
9

NotaFranchise• A Family OwnedBusiness Sun 4 p.m.-p.m 
257 .-1100 "This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" Authentic New York Pizza 
Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs Dine In • Carry Out $2.00 off any pizza with Student ID 
charged with seven runs in 1 2­3 innings, lost his sixth con­secutive decision. 
Athletics 4, White Sox 1 
CHICAGO Oakland reduced its magic number to clinch the AL West to two as Bob Welch won his 199th career game and Dennis Eckersley recorded his 51 s save. 
Eckersley, who has blow only two save opportunities, go his 11th consecutive save de spite giving up his fifth home of the season to Dan Pasqua i the ninth. He entered in th eighth with runners on first an second and retired Fran Thomas on a pop up befor striking out George Bell. 
Welch (11-6) won for th eighth time his last 10 deci sions. He allowed four hits struck out two and walked tw in five-plus innings. 

•.J 

Friday, September 25, 1992 The Observer page 29 
Saint Mary's volleyball destroys Hope College 

By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON Sports Writer 
After a slow start, the Saint Mary's volleyball team was able to hold off the Flying Dutch of Hope College in three matches (15-12, 15-6, 15-9). 
In the first game, the Flying Dutch jumped out to a 9-0 lead before the Belles settled down and began a comeback. 
"They were a good serving team, but once we got use to it, we got into the game," noted Belles coach Julie Schroeder­Biek. 
Once they got into the game, the Belles tied the score at twelve and never fell behind again. They jumped out to a 4-0 lead in the second game, and a 3-0 lead in the final game. 
Mentally, the Belles became tougher as the game pro­gressed. "In the beginning, it seemed like we knew we were better than this," said Schroeder-Biek. "We were beating ourselves." 
Senior co-captain Laura Panowicz agreed. "Once we have control, we stay with it. We won't stop for anything. You can see it on the court as we come together more mentally and physically." 
Defense has been the main 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 
focus at practice for the Belles 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team huddles during a break from its 15-12, 15-6, 15-9 thumping of Hope College 
this week. This extra work 
MARIGOLD MARKET 

came through in their blocking. In comparison to other Division III schools, Rachel Zimmer of the Flying Dutch feels that the Belles blocking is quite ad­vanced. "They are a really good team. They blocked very well. They were like a wall and we couldn't run any of our quick stuff effectively," said Zimmer. 
Schroeder-Biek was thrilled with the way the defense has been improving and is espe­cially happy with first time middle blocker Andrea Salazar. 
"I am pleased with her progress. Middle blocker is a difficult position, but Andrea is really coming through for us," noted Schroeder-Biek. 
Another strong point for the Belles has been the bench. Ev­ery player received playing time in the showing against the Dutch. "We have a very strong bench and I am comfortable throwing any of them into the game," noted Schroeder-Biek. 
The Belles hope to use this game as a confidence booster for this weekend in their trian­gular meet against North Cen­tral College and Carroll College. 
"This win was extremely im­portant for us," Panowicz pointed out. "It should help our morale and physical play. It will make a tremendous difference in our triangular this weekend­it will make us more prepared." 
49ers look to capitalize on Saints' lack of offense 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) -You'll get plenty of opinions on what's wrong with the New Orleans Saints offense. 
"We're not in sync right now," said offensive coordinator Carl Smith. 
The unit isn't holding the ball long enough, said receiver Eric Martin. "It's about execution. We've just got to find a way to get it done." 
Guard Steve Trapilo said a re­view of game films indicates the line is doing a good job, "but it's not quite clicking yet." 
"We have not had any consis­tency," said coach Jim Mora. "Our passing game is poor. Our percentage of completions is bad." 
No matter what the problem, a cure had better pop up before Sunday night's game in the Superdome against the San Francisco 49ers, Mora said. 
"Had it not been for our abil­ity to play defense, we'd be 0-3 right now," Mora said. "Offensively, we're going to have to move the ball and ~core 
I! 

:L.~rz:tP~:JQ r,
{219) 271-2001 ~ 
'M;!~~r~~-9 ~ f 
Swufay 10·6 
t 

1627 'Edison 'J?.pad • Soutfi 'Bend, !7{46637 
!itcross tfie street from Line6acfq.r-atijacent to Jamison Inn •$5.00 coupon· with $15.00 minimumpurcfiase• 'Britton 'l(nowks · Owner 
• 

some points or we're going to lose." 
Both teams are 2-1 and on 
top of the NFC West, where the 
Saints are defending champi­
ons. But they've gone about it 
in far different ways. 
San Francisco's Steve Young has completed 45 of 66 passes. The 49ers have the NFL's top offense with 439 yards per game, the NFC's top rushing offense with 154 yards and the conference's No. 1 passing at­tack with 285 yards. 
San Francisco's 93 points, second in the NFL to Buffalo, are 14 more than the Saints 
and their opponents combined 
this year. Twenty-four of the 
Saints' 51 points came in the 
second half in a win against 
Chicago. Two touchdowns 
against the Bears were scored 
by the defense. 
New Orleans has averaged 258 yards per game. Bobby Hebert has completed 34 of 7 4 passes for 539 yards and four touchdowns. 
--=~~~=-­1'\0Rftl~ CfnTfR lORM4l R T s  
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 8 P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM YESTERDAY A LIVE TRIBUTE TO THE BEATLES SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS $5 NO STUDENTS $8 ADULTS $10  
MOREAU GALLERIES, through Oct. 2-Barbara Shinn, photographs; Cheryl O'Neill, drawings; Marcia Kaplan, sculpture. Admission free. Information: 284-4655. COMING ATTRACTIONS ... Lend Me a Tenor national touring production, Oct 14... American Choral Directors Association Central Division Collegiate Honors Festival Choir concert, Oct. 31...  
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's ---e--­box office. located In O'Laughlln Auditorium. saint Mary's Colle~ Information and charge card orders: 219/284-4626. NOTRE DAME· INDIANA  

lET US PREPARE YOUR TAIL6ATE PICNIC. so YOU 
CAN ENJoy THE GAME! 
GRAPE.~ClEVELAND 272·1922 
~ .........,......._ ........................11\..AJih··--~ .. ·-----·~~----~----=-~~~.. I_.-.----~-------------·----------__.__________....:_____.}<_ ... __.... .. 
The Observer Friday, September 25, 1992
page 30 
the appearance of campus.

Returns highlight young season Delays 
Personal enjoyment of Notre Dame Saturday should never
continued from page 32

(AP) The first three weekends ball is going," Harris said. "It Chargers were outscored 16-0 
decrease due to the presence of of the NFL season have seen 26 goes up from one spot and so in the fourth quarter Sunday commercials. Take a lesson touchdowns scored on returns, you can track it better. Punts against the Steelers in a 23-6 Things such as: from the networks, who don't 
r 
i ~ 
f 
! 
" 
I 
I 
! 
I 
I 
I 
f 
f 
the highest total at this point since the league began keeping statistics in 1932. 
The scoring returns included nine fumble recoveries, eight interceptions, six punt returns, one kickoff return, one blocked field goal and one blocked punt. 
Not included in the total was a spectacular kickoff return Sunday by Houston rookie Corey Harris, whose 98-yard dash to the end zone was called back by a penalty. 
"I've never felt anything more exciting than that," Harris said. "I was standing there in the end zone doing whatever I felt like. And then I turned around and realized what had happened." 
Even without getting the touchdown, the rookie from Vanderbilt still finished with three returns for 83 yards in the Oilers' 23-20 overtime victory over Kansas City that kept Houston one game behind Pittsburgh in the AFC Central. 
"At least that kickoff showed what we're capable of doing," Harris said. "It was called back, but I think to break it like that you can say it's been done. Now it's just a matter of getting a few things corrected." 
Harris corrected an earlier problem with bobbling the football that cost him the job of returning punts for the Oilers (2-1), who play host to winless San Diego on Sunday. He blamed the problem on wearing old contact lenses. 
"It's easier to catch kickoffs because you know where the are different. You have to make a lot more adjustments on the punts." 
Elsewhere in the NFL on Sunday, it's Atlanta at Chicago, Buffalo at New England, Denver at Cleveland, Minnesota at Cincinnati, Tampa Bay at Detroit, Miami at Seattle, the New York Jets at the Los Angeles Rams, Pittsburgh at Green Bay and San Francisco at New Orleans. On Monday night, the Los Angeles Raiders are at Kansas City. 
Dallas, Indianapolis, the New York Giants, Philadelphia, Phoenix and Washington have open dates. 
Because of Harris' depth­perception problems on punts, Pat Coleman is still Houston's punt returner. 
"I really think that the opportunity to return punts will come, but right now I'm re­turning kickoffs," Harris said. "Coleman is doing a good job of that and although he didn't have any long returns, he did a good job of protecting the ball. You've got to protect it first." 
The Houston-San Diego matchup pairs the NFL's top pass attack at 315 yards per game against the Chargers' No. 1 AFC pass defense, allowing 
164.7 yards. The last time the two teams met was 1990 when Warren Moon threw for 355 yards and two TDs in a 17-7 victory. 
San Diego has amassed over 300 yards for two consecutive games, but hasn't won. The defeat. 
Pittsburgh seeks a 4-0 start for the first time since 1979 when it makes its first visit to Green Bay since 1983. The game pairs rookie coaches Bill Cowher and Mike Holmgren, who got his first coaching victory Sunday on the Brett Favre's last minute touchdown pass against Cincinnati. 
Favre, who replaced Don Majkowski because of an ankle injury, will get his first start. Terrell Buckley had a 58-yard punt return touchdown for the Packers against the Bengals. 
The biggest game between division rivals Sunday matches San Francisco and New Orleans, both 2-1 atop the NFC West. 
If the past is any indication, the game should be a close one. The last five games at the Superdome between the two teams have been decided by a total of 15 points. 
The 49ers are still waiting for the return of Joe Montana, but without him they have the NFL's top-ranked offense at 439 yards per game. Steve Young is No. 2 in the league with a quarterback rating of 123.2, trailing only the Eagles' Randall Cunningham. 
San Francisco is facing a Saints defense that has sur­rendered an NFC-low 28 points. New Orleans has yet to allow a passer to throw for 300 yards or a receiver to have 100 yards in receptions. 
let the football game compro­

1. The large sums of money mise their enjoyment of makinggiven to the university for tele­
money.

vision rights. Funds which benefit the entire student body, not just the athletic depart­ment. (Ya, right!) 
Reduce,

2. The opportunity to sweat out or freeze off the effects of the alcohol consumed during pregame tailgaters, so the en­joyment of the game will be un­
Reuse, 

tainted by foreign substances. 
Home games will feature sober, financially-beneficial en­
Recycletertainment, while away games bring opportunities to improve one's academic standing and 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM! 
Nationally ranked IRISH CROSS COUNTRY hosts the National Catholic Invitational Burke Memorial Golf Course 
Friday Women: 4:15pm Men: 5:00pm #16 IRISH WOMEN'S 



SOCCER vs #14 Duke 
Friday 7:30pm 
Alumni Field 
Free Subway Subs Compliments ofthe Alumni Association for all fans (while supplies last) 

Free admission to both events 
Don't Be a Campus Potato!! Take a Trip to TENEX Computer Express on Us! 
And witness first-hand some ofthe best deals on some of the best "School Tools" around!! 
WE MAKE SHOPPING A BREEZE! 
FREE Transportation Please call to arrange for free transportation at 219/272-1234! Also, Transpo buses drop offand pick up on the corner ofGrape Rd and Douglas (just one block from TENEX). 
Delivery TENEX will arrange for prompt delivery of purchases. 
Software at Great Educational Prices! * 
Only $79°0 -Lotus 1-2-3 DOS Version 2.4 
Panasonic KX-P2180 Color Quiet Primer 
•9-pin dot marrix

Only $10900 -Lotus 1-2-3 Windows Version 1.1 
Only $13500 -WordPerfect Version 5.1 


Panasonic Letter Quality KX-P2123 Quiet Primer *Studenr/faculry I.D. required! Prices are for a limited time only! •24-pin dor matrix 
-r~a1ev-----.­-­--­-­--------­-------­= .=::::::'= ~ ===:::::: '= Computer Express  5205 Grape Road, Mishawaka, IN 46545 Phone: 219/272-1234 FAX: 219/273-0393 Store Hours: M-F 10am-7pm Sat: 10am-5pm (located just south of Douglas Road)  (!Commodore"AMIGA" ~ N 0 v E L L® authorized authorized All TENEX Systems are 100% IBM-Compatible  

...

Today 
Friday, September 25, 1992 page 31 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON

BILL WATTERSON 
28 Notes from Big 39 Opposite of 49 Gaucho's Ben hooked, in golf weapon 30 The --forthe 40 Season 
so Remain 
roses 

42 Mavericks 31 Jazzman, to 
53 Neoteric

45 Ill-temperedjazzmen 
46 One of the ss Brazilian border 33 Black Friday's 
landed gentry river precipitator: 
1869 
34 Fencer's feint 

Get answers to any three clues 
35 Feckless ones 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420·
36 Deliverances 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
38 Fearful 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I FIGURt.D 0\JT \-\OW I CAt-\ A0{\8/E SUCCE§ V.J \TIIOVT \1f>.,RD WORK. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Mickey was her 48 U.S.N. officer first husband 49 Digs
1 Indonesian 28 Formed a 51 This may be ISland foundation for marked "Pd." 
s Mores 29 Maigret 52 "II Trovatore"11 City on the colleague heroineRhone 31 Cheats 54 Wild12 Language 32 Capital of 56 Nose-wrinkling
family including Finnish 
Slovenia 57 Sprang 
34 Only pope from 58 Influences England 59 Wood nymph 14 More affected 
15 Emmy winner Tony 37 Wild grain 
17 Deli order 41 Lark 
DOWN

18 Shipyard 42 Napoleon Solo, feature for one 1 Unquestionable 
20 Bovine cry 43 Roman dictator 2 Suffix for differ 21 Bellow 44 Fried bread 3 Editor Whitelaw 23 Conked out 45 Cover: Comb. -:1837-1912 
24 Bulgarian coins form 4 Declares 25 The Ram 47 Spinnaker, e.g. s Elia's sister and co-author 6 One of Zeus's conquests
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Pamphlet 8 Aaron or Greenberg of baseball 
9Venerable 10 Thai 11 In abundance 1 3 split 

---~~~J!~gt!~m~@~ 22 Jones's "The 

"" Thin-" 
poet 26 White colleague 
., 

Suddenly, the cops stepped into the clearing, and the Spamshiners knew they were busted. 
8 p.m. Musical: "Yesterday Returns to Beatles' Music to Stage." O'Laughlin auditorium, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Saint Mary's College. 
Friday ur 

4:30 p~m. Leeture:l"Prouse et les Metamorphoses du Gout," Michel Erman, Universite de Bouregogne. Room 207, DeBartolo Hall. Sponsored by Romance Languages and Literature. 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Veal parmesan Spaghetti Baked Pollack Jardiniere Cheese Enchiladas Chicken Dumplings Baked Cod 
I'LL F\1--\D f>., PRO\t'S'S\01-.l 
'N\-\ERE ~'iER~Ot-l£ 
IN. \T \') WORS'E n1f..N ME! 

Lethal Weapon 3 Fri. & Sat. Sept.25 & 26 
Movies shown 8:00 & I 0:30p.m. in Cushing Auditorium 
THE RUSSEL SIMMONS 
DEF COMEDY JAM 
As seen un HBO 
Fri. Oct. 2 
Stepan Center 
8:00p.m. 810.00 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Admission: $2.00 
~.r·'Jiot-!'11<~~---.. ..-----~---~~-.................. w. _,___ ......... ......
'l:lo: .... ,_.,.._ --.--·
-----------ft-·-......~....----------------------------' 
-


Sports 
page 32 Friday, September 25, 1992 

l 
I 
I 
~ 
r t • t 
l
~ 
t I 
~ 
r 
! ~ ­
' 
~ 
I ~ 
f 
' ..... 
~ ~ 
~ 
.' 
• 
~ ~ 
George Dohrmann 
The Jock Strip 

Enjoy Notre Dame football, despite the delays 
With most of the attention of this against 14th-ranked Duke tonight at young football season centered on the Alumni Field. tie with Michigan, the defense, and After shrugging off comments from most recently the Irish Guard, one his players concerning his newly major complaint has yet to be voiced trimmed scalp, Petrucelli talked concerning Notre Dame football, the about his team's chances with a con-length of the games. fidence not seen this season. 
Notre Dame Saturday, as NBC likes to "I think we have a good team, and call it, and College Gameday, ABC's we match up with them well," said spiffy name for its slate of games, have Petrucelli. "We will be comfortable both featured the Irish this season, but playing at home, and I think it will be only as a sidebar to the onslaught of an advantage for us." commercials which have filled our TV A small tone of confidence has screens. existed in Petrucelli's voice 
Both the Michigan and Michigan throughout the season, but nothing State contests lasted over four hours, resembling the confidence the fifth­with the actual play itself lasting only year coach has in his team going into an hour. (four fifteen-minute quarters) today's game. It boggles the mind that a network Perhaps Petrucelli knows must finance three minutes of something that opposing coaches commercials for every minute of don't about the 16th-ranked Irish. It football. could be the fact that his youthful 
I know that one man can't change squad is coming together as a unit, television's greed, but at least I can use and prepared to step up its level of it to my advantage. play. 
The next televised away game will In early season matchups with pose an interesting challenge for me. highly regarded Rutgers and N.C. During the time intervals occupied by State, Petrucelli talked about the commercials, I will attempt to do one importance of his young players to or more of the following things: avoid intimidation, and to raise the 
1. 
Watch the entire Godfather trilogy level of their game to the college 

2. 
Complete the construction of the level. Now the Irish coach feels his quad in front of the DeBartolo Building. team could beat just about any team 

3. 
Get my American Studies degree. in the country. (with honors) That feeling will be put to the test 

4. 
Knit sweaters for all 22 members in the upcoming week. The matchup 


of Irish safety John Covington's family. with the Blue Devils is the first of four I am fairly certain that at least one of contests with ranked opponents. 
my tasks will be completed and I believe there exists a faint possibility that I could complete two or three. The point being that I will have used the commercial time wisely, not wasting a 
single moment. 

When attending games, these opportunities don't exist. We cannot accomplish any feats, or even snicker at the newest Little Ceaser Pizza commercial. We must sit in the stands, our knees aching, passing the wasted time by throwing cups and bad­mouthing the poor NBC employee who stands and signals when the commercials end and play can begin. 
The mummers from the student section were civilized during the Michigan game. "This is so annoying," and "I hate that guy" were the most frequently heard comments aimed at NBC's TV timeout boy. 
But I fear the escalation of the crowds frustration to the point where things may get out of hand. Who knows what will be said later in the year, say, at the Penn State game. 
"I know where that guy lives," and "I bet I could reach him with a small­caliber rille" may seem far-fetched but who knows what will enter the minds of Irish faithful when the temperature tips below zero, and they are waiting an extra three hours so Bud Light gets their say. 
Hopefully fans will be tolerant, keeping in mind a number of beneficial things resulting from the commercials. 
see DELAYS I page 30 
INSIDE SPORTS 
•Men's CrossooCOuntry 

see page 21 
•Saint Mary's Volleyball 

seepage 29 
Irish soccer teams face stiff challenges 
Women confident against Duke 
Sports Writer 

Sporting a new haircut and a newfound air of confidence about his team, Notre Dame women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli couldn't be happier about his team's chances 
see WOMEN I page 28 
20th-ranked women's volleyball achieves balance 
By DAN PIER 
Sports Writer 

On a 9-1 team ranked 20th in the nation, one would expect to find some standouts; a superstar or two who usually grab the spotlight. 
It's not that the Notre Dame volleyball team doesn't have those players, it just seems that everyone stands out about equally, rendering the spotlight useless. 
a 


Men ready for Indiana rematch 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
This one is for real. 
When the Notre Dame men's 
soccer team met Indiana in the 
Golden Boot Classic last month, 
they suffered a 2-0 exhibition loss, 
but tonight's game in Bloomington 
will be different. 
Neither team put too much emphasis on the exhibition, using it only as a chance to improve before the beginning of the regular season. 
"We were only looking at our 
team and we weren't trying to be 
organized as far as scouting 
Indiana," Irish coach Mike 
Berticelli said of the exhibition. "It 
was way too early in the season 
and both teams used it only as a 
practice game." 
It didn't look like a practice game. From the physical play, it appeared that both teams were fighting for a championship and the same is expected tonight. 
When the Irish and the Hoosiers 
tangle it is always a battle, but 
there is a mutual respect between 
the two programs. 
"It will be a very competitive game as it always is when we play Indiana," Berticelli explained. "But it's never a dirty game, both teams just go out and play very hard." 
The Irish will have to play hard 
to knock off the explosive 
Hoosiers. 
However, Indiana has proven to 
be vulnerable against some tough 
defensive teams, suffering three 
shutouts in the young season. 
Duke, UCLA and St. Louis, three 
see MEN I page 27 

You need a floodlight for this team. 
"Our balance is one of the things that makes us a strong team, and a difficult team to play against," said head coach Debbie Brown. "A team can't come in and say,'We just need to stop this player or that player'. That makes it tough to defend us and tough to scout us." 
Three teams will try to deal with that problem this weekend when the Irish travel to the William and Mary Invitational. On Saturday, Notre Dame will face Northeastern, a team which returns four starters from a 31-13 squad, and the host team, which promises to provide the best competition in the tournament. Georgetown, off to a slow start after a 23-14 mark a year ago, awaits on Sunday. 
The equality amongst Notre Dame's players is evident on paper as well as on the court. Five different Irish head up five of the major statistical categories: Christy Peters leads the team in kills, Cynthia May in attack percentage, Janelle Karlan in assists, Marilyn Cragin in service aces, and Jessica Fiebelkorn in digs. The wealth is spread particularly evenly on offense, where seven players are averaging well over one kill per match. 
Brown believes that when her team's potency catches up with its balance, it will be an even greater force to be reck­oned with. 
"We have excellent distribution right now," said the coach. "We're still working on our efficiency, though. If everyone brings that up just one notch, we will be where we want to be offensively." 
Balance and teamwork rarely come about by mistake, and the Irish are no exception to that rule. Brown's leadership has certainly fostered those qualities, but she credits the players for creating the right atmosphere. 
"The players are all team oriented," said the coach. "No one is seeking star status over the team. When they get rec­ognized individually, it's not that they're embarassed, but you get the feeling that they would almost rather have the team 
recognized as a whole."
•cubs; teague end suit 

The Observer /Jake Peters Break out the floodlight, William and 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team, shown competing against Purdue, is now ranked 20th in the country as they
seepage26 
Mary. Here come the Irish. 
head to the William & Mary Invitational to take on two top teams in Northeastern and Georgetown. 
r 





