

The Observer 
ing on December 10, said unit Man" and "Toy Soldiers," while Ara Parseghian, legendary cess.
teams. To sign up, call the 
publicist Janet Hill. Oscar and Emmy nominee coach at Notre Dame when "We're working with anRecSports Office at 239-6100. 
An average of 15 to 20 stu­Beatty starred in "Superman" I Ruettiger first came to South amazing cast, our film makersAt 8 p.m., the forum "Get To dents from Notre Dame, Saint and II and, more recently, in Bend in the early 1970s, is are the top of the line, and theKnow The Law Before The Law Mary's, Holy Cross, and the "Hear My Song." Tony Award serving as a consultant to the staff is the cream of the crop,"Gets To Know You" will feature 
Indiana University of South nominee Dutton stars in the TV film. said Hill. "We don't expect any­Bend are filmed every day as series "Roc" and recently Producing the film for TriStar thing but an excellent movie out see ALCOHOL I page 4 extras and stand-ins, said Hill. starred in "Alien 3", and Taylor Pictures are Rob Fried and Cary of this." 
Slavic studies professor n scandal 
... , the sole corporate 

"T"';rl4>ifi>r__1nii·lit, has already paid BNL million in restitution. 
to lecture on Soviet history 
Special to The Observer Inter-University Committee on U.S. District Court Judge Mar­Travel Grants, which until 1969 vinSboob agreed to the $1 mil­William Edgerton, professor administered scholarly ex­lion f1:9e called for by the plea
emeritus of Slavic languages change programs between the and literatures at Indiana Uni­U.S. and Soviet and Eastern ~greetl1ent. versity, will lecture on "The European countries. From 1958 · Shoob also noted that Entrade Tolstoyans: A Long-Suppressed to 1978 he chaired the has agreed to cooperate with Chapter of Soviet History," at 3 American Committee of Slavists the prosecution. "I would not be 
p.m. today in the Hesburgh Li­and participated as one of two at aU surprised if the brary Lounge. American members on the in­g(;lyi;l:.rttrnent asks Entrade to 
Edgerton pioneered the de­ternational Committee of Slav­provide Witnesses against Dro·velopment of Slavic studies in ists. 
goul.., be said.
the United States, first as a Edgerton has been a member Drogoul has accused the Bush.
member of the Joint Committee of the faculty at Indiana administration of covering upon Slavic Studies of the Ameri­University since 1958. His 125 
the sch~iJle, and the

can Council of Learned Soci­scholarly publications have ap­ht:tndling of
eties and the Social Science Re­peared in 14 countries. search Council, and then as the During the past decade case at the center of a pre­founder and first president of Edgerton's research has fo­election scandal that the American Association for cused on the worldwide social accusing the Bush the Advancement of Slavic ofbotching Studies. 
In 1955 he helped found the see EDGARTON I page 4 
VOL. XXV. NO. 41 
Alcohol awareness observed 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
The Office of Drug and Alco­hol Education is sponsoring several activities this week to observe National Collegiate Al­cohol Awareness Week. 
"We're trying to raise the students' level of awareness about alcohol," said Mark Pogue, coordinator of the drug and alcohol office. 
Working in conjunction with a number of campus and county government groups, Pogue's office has organized three campus-wide presenta­tions, which include a play, a night of "mocktails" and an obstacle course. The events will address the various issues facing college students regarding alcohol use, as well as the entertainment options available, he said. 
"I don't think there's any doubt that alcohol causes prob­lems on this campus, just like at any other campus," said Pogue. "Alcohol is the drug of choice for college students." 
"Busted: A DUI Mocktrial" was held last night in the Law School. It was co-sponsored by the St. Joseph's County Prose­cutors Department and Stu­dents Against Drunk Driving lSADD). 
The events for the rest of the week include: 
•Tuesday: 
"HIGH-er Educa­tion," a one-act comedy play about sex, drugs and campus life, will be presented at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. Free tick­ets are available at the LaFor­tune Information Desk, and a discussion will follow. 

•Wednesday: 
"The Disori­ented Domer Dash" will be held at 7 p.m. in Gym 2 of the JACC. The "Dash" is a two person (one male and one female) obstacle course, designed to simulate visual and motor impairment caused by alcohol misuse. Prizes will be awarded to the fastest three 


The Observer/ Maureen Long


The great pumpkin 
In preparation for Halloween, Wals"h Hall sophomores Carlyn Gaul, Becky Hellmann and Colleen Quinn carve their pumpkin into a jack-o-lantern. 


Stars and director named for "Rudy'' 
By EMILY HAGE The cooperation from has starred in "Mystic Pizza" Woods. News Writer students and the university has and "Say Anything." Director Anspaugh and been "wonderful," she said. "Rudy" is the true story of screenwriter Pizzo previously 
"Rudy," the true story of a "We wouldn't be here if it how one young man, Rudy teamed up for the 1986 film young Notre Dame football weren't for their cooperation," Ruettiger, struggles to pursue "Hoosiers," which Fried also hopeful, will star Sean Astin in Hill said. his lifelong goal: to wear the worked on as an executive for the title role and be directed by Starring with Astin are Ned uniform, if only for one down, Orion. "Rudy" is tentatively David Anspaugh from a script Beatty as Rudy's father, Charles of the Notre Dame Football scheduled to be released in the by Angelo Pizzo, announced Dutton as a grounds keeper at team. This is the first feature fall of 1993. Marc Platt, president of TriStar Notre Dame who befriends since "Knute Rockne, All Hill said that the budget for Pictures. Rudy, and Lili Taylor as Rudy's American" in 1940 to be made the production is a medium­
Production began Sunday at fiancee. with the full cooperation of sized Hollywood budget, with a Notre Dame and will move to Notre Dame. staff of 80 to 100 people. She is Chicago for three weeks of film­Astin has starred in "Encino optimistic about the film's suc­
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1992 
Mock DUI trial raises awareness 
By THERESA ALEMAN 
News Writer 
As part of National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week, the St. Joseph's County Prosecutors Department, Students Against Drunk Driving (SADD), and the NO office of drug and alcohol education sponsored a mock DUI trial in the courtroom of the NO law school Monday night. 
St. Joseph's county prose­cutor, Mark Kopinski, acted as the state prosecutor against a fictional accused drunk driver, Melissa Bennett. Defense at­torney Michael Scopolitis, acted as Bennett's defense attorney. Rick Hoover, forensic patholo­gist; Mark Gross, Indiana State Trooper; and Linda Rice, mock accident victim, testified on behalf of the state as to the in­toxication of Bennett. 
Celebrity judge John Robin­son presided over the trial, in­terrupting periodically to insist on counsel's clarity and topical­ity. 
The case involved a wreck at the intersection of Juniper and Edison. The defendant sup­posedly failed to yield as she entered Juniper at the end of the intersection, forcing Rice to rear end her. Rice testified that she called the police at once 
see TRIAL I page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
On your own and drooping in some NYC 
"it's hard to be humble when it's all at your feet/ and someday soon it's gonna leave the street/ they say the truth shall set you free/ so you're on parole when you're on NYC" 

You're  just  some  Guy Loranger  
Indiana  boy,  rushing  Asst.Viewpoint Editor  
through the hustle here,  

hustle there, of just some -----,-,-------,­mad, gone, chilled-bone New York City fall afternoon, your eyes blood-red sore from seeing the countless hollow faces of beggars and street prophets pass you by. 
Oh well, the best thing is to ignore them, like that liquor-smelling, money-begging bum who said he'd "get you on the way out." You weren't quite sure what he meant by that as you walked into the Coronet and ordered the finest slice o pizza in all of uptown Manhattan, but he'd never find you in this city anyway, a needle in the haystack of the world, some Indiana boy, rushing through ... 
... the get here, get there, academic, blown-up, stuffed-up, backed-up dining hall lines of just some Notre Dame spring afternoon, trying to ignore the voice of that smug, East coast­talking, West coast-grinning, Southern­charming, Midwest-annoying cheese sitting across from you. 
"This food sucks! I can't believe they serve us this crap," he proclaims while spitting his sand­wich a la Monte Cristo onto his pasta primavered and glancing at the campus newspaper. "Ha, look at this. South Bend's getting some kinda College Football Hall o Fame. Ha! Maybe it'd clean this town up a lil' bit." 
You're an Indiana boy whose blood all of a sudden starts boiling while his head spins into a fiery, insulted rage. What does that jerk know anyway? This town's pretty damn good as it is. Drive around Knollwood, Twyckenham Hills, Georgian Acres, houses costing $200,000 and up, going up everyday, all over the place, alotta people living in 'em... (and then) ... alotta people not living in 'em, living in alleys and parking lots downtown, parking lots that are being used for some $13 million tourist trap while a homeless shelter squeaks by at barely even what it would cost to install a toilet in that place. 
You don't say anything to put the jerk back in his place, because sometimes you don't even know your own place, especially when you're ·ust some Indiana boy, rushing through ... 
...the craziness, neon haziness, anything but laziness of Manhattan madness, complete with skyscrapers scraping, cabbies cabbing, and an amazing voice of Truth speaking out to you in gravelly tones, "What shall's a man reap if he done hadda sell his so'? Homeless folks asking peoples same thin' each day. Sayin', 'Mista Maya Dinkens sah, what shall's a man reap if he done hadda sell his so'? Mista Trump, sah, what shall's he reap?"' 
Maybe you're hearing the voice of Truth or the voice of God. Then, of course, maybe it's ·ust the voice of some bum, getting you on the way and picking up his lunch from the ground. 
They should build some sorta College Football Hall of Fame here, maybe it'd clean the place up a bit. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff News Production 
Bevin Kovalik Kim Massman 
Becky Barnes Cynthia Ehrhardt 
Sports Systems 
Brian Kubicki Harry Zembillas 

Graphics Accent 
Chris Mullins Mara Divis Sarah Doran 
Business Pancho Lozano Marc Krejci 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Tuesday, October 27 1992 





TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Fiestas deemed barbaric 
•MADRID, Spain -A summer of fiestas in which a man was killed, several were gored and animals were tormented or slain has lent strength to allegations that some of Spain's traditional festivals are barbaric. A na­tional law bans the use in fiestas of any animals except bulls and cows, which are considered essential to the rituals, but it has been applied by only five of the coun­try's 17 regional governments. At some fiestas, people stick balls of tar in the tips of bulls' horns and set them afire. At others, horsemen tear the heads from geese suspended by the feet from ropes. Julio Caro Baroja, an anthropologist, said the rituals were born in the turbulent years after Jews and Muslims were expelled from Spain at the end of the 15th century. According to Caro, the animals assumed the role of the enemies of pure, Roman Catholic Spain. 

NATIONAL 
Swindler sentence delayed 
•TRENTON, N.J. -A 32-year-old man convicted of swindling Princeton University out of $22,000 in scholarship money had his nine-month sentence stayed Monday by an appeals court that ruled it was too harsh. The court also ruled that James Hogue could remain free until it decides his fate. Hogue was convicted of enrolling in Princeton under false pretenses in 1989, claiming he was a 20-year-old named Alexi Indris-Santana who had never gone to college but was self-educated. Authorities said the ruse ended after a Yale student saw Hogue at a track meet and recognized him from a California high school that Hogue had falsely enrolled in a few years before. Hogue was arrested in class in February 1991. 

OF INTEREST 
•Keenan 
and Pasquerilla East Political Forum Series will have its second forum tonight at 7 p.m. in the Keenan Hall Kommons. The focus of this forum is the college students' perspective of the 1992 election. 

•HIGH-er 
Education Play will be presented tonight at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. Free tickets are available at the LaFortune Information Desk. This is a one-act comedy about sex, drugs and campus life. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY•s TRADING October 26 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 187,946,400 +1.95 to 229.78 S&P COMPOSITE 

+4.06to418.16 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
+36.47 to 3,244.11

UNCHANGED 
583 

GOLD 
-$2.50 to $341.10 oz 

SILVER 
-$.025 to $3.757 oz 

•NE YORK -Three major car-renting companies have begun rejecting unsafe drivers through computer checks in and around New York City and are expanding the program to other cities and states. Hertz, National and Budget are generally refusing to rent cars to drivers whose licenses have been revoked or who have had serious moving violations, such as drunken driving, or two serious accidents in the past three years. The companies have access to state Department of Motor Vehicle computer records. 


CAMPUS 

•NOTA 
DAME-The NO Council of the Knights of Columbus received a second-place award in the national organization's Outstanding College Council contest. Grand Knight David Certo and Outside Guard Bill Sieger accepted the award on behalf of NO Council #1477 at the College Council Conference held in New Haven, Conn., Oct. 2-4. The NO Council, the oldest and largest college Council of the Knights, led the state of Indiana in new members in 1991, inducting 104 for a net gain of 87. They also led all college Councils in both membership increase and charitable contributions, raising over $16,000 in donations through their steak sandwich sales on campus before home football games. 

•Spin 
Doctors concert will be at 8 p.m. on Novem­ber 10 at Stepan Center. Tickets are on sale at the LaFortune Information Desk and are $10 for students and $15 for the general public. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• In 1927: Fox Movie-tone News, the world's first sound 
news film, was released in New York. 
• 
In 1950: United Nations troops marched through North Korea and reached the Chinese border. 

• 
In 1965: Police dogs were loosed upon black demonstrators in the Rhodesian capital of Salisbury, as they 


protested the attempt of Prime Minister lan Smith to consolidate his white supremacist government. 
• 
In 1972: President Richard Nixon announced the sale of 

$18 million of corn to Communist China. 

• 
In 1985: The kidnapped daughter of El Salvador President Jose Napoleon Duarte was freed unharmed by leftist rebels. 



·-.. --. 

Tuesday, October 27,1992 The Observer 
ldest remains in . found 
CINCINNATI (AP)-A woman the Center for American Ar­the middle. Evidence indicates 
whose remains are believed to chaeology in Kampsville, Ill. 
the Clovis culture spread within be at least 11,600 years old ­
But his age estimate would 1,000 years over much of North oldest ever found in the place the woman in the time America. Americas -likely lived in a frame of the Clovis culture, Archaeologists have found 
culture of hunters who which was known to have used evidence that those people built processed meat, a geologist spears to hunt game that in­campfires and apparently cured 
who examined the bones said 
cluded mammoths and meat in pits, McKinney said. 
Monday. 
mastodons, McKinney told the They also had small set­No artifacts were found with Geological Society of America's tlements. the remains that could tell how annual meeting. 
Scientists believe several other 
the "Midland woman" and her The Clovis culture is known North American archaeologicalsociety lived in what is now 
for finely worked spearheads sites may be up to 30,000 years Texas, said Curtis McKinney, that had a characteristic long, old, but none yielded skeletal director of geologic research at fluted shape with a groove in remains. The oldest modern 
human skeletons are estimated to be 35,000 years old and have been discovered in western Europe and the Middle East. 

McKinney calculated the age of the woman, whose bones were found in 1953 near Mid­land, Texas, using a technique
Tues: 50% off Almost Everything 
called alpha spectrometry, which measures the ratio of 
Wed: You Know What's Happening!!! 
uranium-234 and thorium-230 
in the bones. 
Bring Us a Penny for Your 
He said his age estimate would make the bones the old­est human skeletal remains 
Thoughts ... $3 with Student I.D. 
Thurs: Dollar Night 
ever found in the Americas. 
Velcro Jumping Competition 
"There are a number dated between 10,000 and 11,000 years old, but this is the only one over 11,000 years," he said. 
We'll Give You Star Treatment: Free Universal Studios Ticket With Room! 
Weekends 
Attention, sports fans. located only a pass 
The new Hyatt Regency from the L.A. Los Angeles has a special Coliseum. You'll offer for all those in town cheer our new look 
Per room. 
for the Big Game. Hyatt's and delight in our
Includes ticket 

L_____, 
Football Weekend Package spacious guest rooms and complimentary includes deluxe room accommodations, Fitness Center. complimentary valet parking at the hotel With our late check-out time, extend and a complimentary ticket to Universal your weekend and take advantage of 
Studios Hollywood. your free ticket to Universal Before and after the game, H_Y-A-l,T Studios Hollywood. enjoy the luxuries of our REG£NCY Additional tickets are recently renovated Hyatt, • .. available at a special price. Fed The Hyatt Touch.·· Second night just $95, including valet parking. Kids get their own room at halfprice or can stay in their parents room for free! Score big! Call your travel planner, Hyatt at (800) 233-1234 or (213) 683-1234 or USC TRAVEL at (800) 634}394. . . 
Cl 1992 Hyan Corp. 'Rale is per room, per n•ght, smgle or double occupancy, based on avadabduy. Not applicable to conventions or groups. Tax excluded. 
GRADUATE STUDENT RETREAT 
SATURDAY, October 31 SUNDAY, November 1 
1:00 p.m. 1:00 p.m. 
A time of silence and reflection, prayer, companionship and conversation focused on biblical texts. 
Place: Lindenwood Retreat Center at Ancilla Domini College Donaldson, Indiana, 45 miles south of Notre Dame. 
Cost: $15.00 for the 24 hours, including 3 meals. 
CALL BY WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28 TO RESERVE A PlACE. 
Contact Fr. John Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Graduate Residences 239-8606 or Sharon at the Campus Ministry Office, Fischer Conununity Center 239-8607. 
Participants will be invited to share in the planning of the retreat if they care to do so. 

_ The Observer/ Cynthia Exconde 

Boo! 

Saint Mary's freshman Ann Keough adorns her door in McCandless Hall with decorative Halloween ghosts and goblins. 
Ylvaifa6{e for 
Personal Portraits• Passports• Identification Graduation Pictures Always at a reasonable price 
Just 5 minutes from campus 

Back by popular demand ••. 
Beat the Clock Tuesday! 
5:00pm.. 7:30pm Every Tuesday 
Price of large 1 topping pizza is the time you call! 



Free Delivery 
271--1177 

page 4 

Planned Parenthood files suit against groups 

SAN DIEGO (AP) -A Planned Parenthood chapter filed suit Monday against four groups it says operate bogus abortion clinics as a ruse to talk women out of terminating their pregnancies. 
The lawsuit, filed in San Diego Superior Court, accuses the groups of false advertising and other unlawful business practices. It also seeks unspeci­fied monetary damages for a woman who said she visited one of the clinics in September after finding it listed in a telephone directory. 
"This is really a consumer fraud issue," said Mark Salo, executive director of Planned Parenthood of San Diego and Riverside counties, which brought the lawsuit. 
He said the groups have vio­lated women's privacy and tried to coerce them into choosing adoption over abortion. At least 

Edgerton 
continued from page 1 
and religious influence of Russian author Leo Tolstoy. His lecture will be drawn largely from his translation of "Memoirs of Peasant Tolstoyans 

Alcohol 
continued from page 1 
members of the Stop Underage Drinking and Sales Task Force (SUDS). "This is to give students an opportunity to talk about their concerns," said Pogue. 
•Thursday: 
Free "mocktails" will be served during dinner at both dining halls. Also, a lec­ture on "Cultural Differences in Understanding Addictions" will be presented at 7 p.m. in the library auditorium in conjunc­tion with the Office of Minority Student Affairs. 

•The 
week will conclude with Halloween events. Student Activities is sponsoring "Fright Night," an all night movie marathon beginning Friday at 


11:30 p.m. and ending around 8 a.m. Saturday morning. 
Saturday night, Carroll Hall will present their annual Haunted House. There is a small fee, and the line will open at 8 p.m. and close at 9:30 p.m. 
In order to draw students to the awareness presentations, Pogue's office has developed an incentive program. Each time a student attends an event this week, his or her name will be entered into a prize drawing. Prizes include a CD player and an autographed football and basketball. 
"I think once the students come, they will enjoy them­selves," Pogue said. 
one person was given an improper medical diagnosis, Salo said. 
The lawsuit names the Center for Unplanned Pregnancy, San Diego Pregnancy Services Inc., Escondido Pregnancy Services Inc., and Pro-Life Pregnancy Counseling and Educational League of San Diego County, which is also known as the Poway Pregnancy Counseling Center. 
Officials of the Center For Unplanned Pregnancy and Escondido Pregnancy Services Inc. declined comment. Tele­phone messages left at San Diego Pregnancy Services Inc. and the Poway Pregnancy Counseling Center were not re­turned. 
The lawsuit seeks to stop the centers' allegedly false adver­tising and other unlawful busi­ness practices. 
in Soviet Russia," a book that will be published early in 1993 by Indiana University Press. 
Edgerton's lecture, sponsored by Friends of the Library at Notre Dame, is free and open to the public. 
The Observer 


Trial 
continued from page 1 
from her car phone "once she realized the defendant smelled of alcohol . " 
State trooper Mark Gross de­scribed the tests he gave Ben­nett to determine intoxication and estimated level of blood al­cobol. Bennett's blood alcohol level registered .1 0 on the breathalizer, the exact level deemed by the state of Indiana as legally intoxicated. Hoover confirmed the registered alco­hol level of the breathalizer with his blood test. 
Both sides stressed the im­portance of the definition of in­toxication, the defense insisting that the margin of error of the 
The Investment Banking Division of 
Tuesday, October 27,1992 
tests could keep Bennett from being deemed legally drunk. 
At the conclusion of both ar­guments, Judge Robinson found the defendant guilty. 
The trial was conducted as the real proceedings of a DUI trial would be in order to "heighten awareness of the ef­fects of alcohol on driving and the legal repercussions in­volved," said Kopinski. 







Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
cordially invites University of Notre Dame undergraduates of all majors to attend an information session on the 
Financial Analyst Program 
Goldman Sachs' Financial Analyst Program offers exposure to a broad range of industries and transactions, a high level of responsibility and client interaction in a collegial work environment. No other investment bank promotes the same degree of teamwork that has become one of the hallmarks of Goldman Sachs' success. 
Goldman Sachs is committed to hiring undergraduates with outstanding achievements from all majors, including Arts and Letters, Engineering and Sciences, to join the analyst class for 1993. 


Information Session on October 29 at 7:00p.m. The Notre Dame Room in LaFortune Student Center 

MAPLE LANE BARBERSHOP HOURS: MON-FRI 8:00-5:30 SAT 8:00-3:00 2112 South Bend Avenue Appointments if desired 272~6722 Servi1t1J w 9{pm 'Dame communityfor over 30 years  
GLADIEUX TRAVEL  
TOP GROUND GAINER OF 1968 HAS GONE TO THE AlB 234-6636  



Tuesday, October 27, 1992 

Shuttle astronauts take photographs 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -Columbia's astronauts fired up a pair of metal-melting fur­naces and baked tiny strips of gold, silver and lead Monday after solving a cooling problem with the unit. 
The crew of five Americans and one Canadian also pho­tographed the glow from the upper atmosphere as the shut­tle sped around the world halfway through its 10-day flight. 
"Every mission that we fly into space takes us one step closer to being able to operate in space and live and work here full time," astronaut Charles Veach said during a broadcast interview. 
Veach defended the work be­ing done aboard Columbia. Crit­ics have argued a laser-reflect­ing satellite dispatched by the astronauts Friday could have been launched from an un­manned rocket and that the subsequent shuttle research is not worth the risk to humans or the nearly half-billion-dollar cost. 
"It's hard to assign a dollar value to any one mission or a dollar return to any one event that takes place in space," Veach said. "But the cumulative effect of everything we're doing here is revolutionizing human life, and it's that simple." 
As of midday Monday. the as­tronauts had melted 10 metal samples in two small middeck furnaces capable of being 
Liz, You Can Come Out Now You'RE 21 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
DON'T MISS THEM... 
THEJ ~ IJ SPiNDoer@'Rs 
~ j 
WHEN: Tuesday, November 10 WHERE: Stepan Center WHAT TIME IS IT? 8:00p.m. TICKETS: $!0 Students 
$15 Public 
ON SALE AT LaFORTUNE INFO DESK heated to 1,380 degrees Fahrenheit. After being baked, the specimens were cooled so they could solidify as quickly as possible. 

Each of the 35 samples -in the form of 1 1/2-long wires ­consists of two metals, such as gold and lead or silver and lead. 
Canadian researchers want to see how well various metals diffuse in weightlessness. Such knowledge could help metal­lurgists create better alloys on Earth, said Bruce Aikenhead, program manager for the Canadian Space Agency. 
Aikenhead said there should be enough time before the flight ends Sunday to process all 35 samples. The experiment began late because of the failure of a fan needed to cool the furnaces. 
Veach and Canadian astronaut Steven MacLean solved the cooling problem by hooking a vent hose from the orbiter airlock to the furnaces, bypass­ing the fan. 
The astronauts beamed down videotaped images of a clear Texas coastline and sparkling, aqua pools in the Atlantic Ocean off south Florida. Pilot Michael Baker said there seemed to be less smoke and haze over South America's Amazon basin than he saw dur­ing his first space flight a year ago. 
On the lighter side, the as­tronauts received a special greeting from a compatriot of sorts. 

The Observer/ Cynthia Exoonde 
Behind the scenes 
Saint Mary's freshman Ritamaureen Holmes constructs the scenery for a play called "Talking With," which will be performed at the Clubhouse in November. 


Heart ailment sufferers need information 
CHICAGO (AP) -More than a million Americans with the same heart ailment that has afflicted President Bush and Mother Teresa should learn more about it so they can get treatment if warranted, a doctors' group said Monday. 
The ailment, atrial fibrillation, is the indirect cause of 75,000 strokes a year, up to half of which could be prevented with drug therapy, the American College of Chest Physicians said. 
"Based on what we now know, physicians should more actively pursue the diagnosis and treatment of atrial fibrillation," said Dr. Marvin Dunn, the group's past president. 
And anyone who has been diagnosed with the condition but is not receiving drug treat­ment should revisit a physician to learn whether drugs are 
[/[ 

FOR JUNIOR NURSING STUDENTS 
A NURSING EXPERIENCE AT MAYO FOUNDATION HOSPITALS­ROCHESTER, MN 
Here is your opportunity to work at Mayo Medical Center for the summer. 
1 Summer Ill is a paid, supervised hospital work experience at Saint Marys Hospital and Rochester Methodist Hospital, both part of Mayo Medical Center in Rochester, Minnesota. 
You are eligible for Summer Ill after your junior year of a four year baccalaureate nursing program. It includes experience on medical and surgical nursing units or in operating rooms. 
Application Deadline: December 1, 1992. 
For more information contact: 

warranted, he told reporters. 

The college has joined the National Stroke Association and the Alliance for Aging Research in mailing 105,000 packets of information on treating the dis­order to primary care physi­cians nationwide. 
Also, they have opened a toll­free nationwide hot line to an­swer questions about the ail­ment and to refer people to physicians. 
Atrial fibrillation occurs when the upper chambers of the heart vibrate instead of pump vigorously. That allows blood to stagnate and clot. If the clots break off and travel to the brain. they can clog vessels and cause a stroke. 
Many doctors consider blood­thinning drugs too risky for most patients, but a review of five major clinical studies found 
Mayo Medical Center 
Nursing Recruitment 
P.O. Box 6057 Rochester, Minnesota 55903 1-800-247-8590 

Mayo Foundation is an affirmdtive action and equal opportunity educator and employer. 
A smoke-free institution. 
L________________________, ___
j 
that the benefits far outweigh the risks at low doses for most older patients, the doctors said. 
Their statement is published in the October issue of the journal Chest. 
More than a million Ameri­cans, most of them elderly, have atrial fibrillation, which increases the risk of stroke sixfold, said James Lannon, ex­ecutive director of the National Stroke Association. 
Stroke is the country's third leading cause of death and the primary cause of adult disabil­ity, costing $15.6 billion to $25 billion annually, he said. 
Atrial fibrillation afflicts 5 percent of people over age 60 and as many as 16 percent of men and 12 percent of women over age 70, said Daniel Perry, executive director of the Al­liance for Aging Research. 
Arrest occurs in Hurricane fraud attempt 
MIAMI (AP) -A man who al­
legedly lied to get a new mobile 
home from disaster relief offi­
cials was arrested Monday 
after the renter he evicted 
reported him to authorities. 
Victorino Soto, 62, was 
charged with filing a fraudulent 
application for federal disaster 
help. He was released on 
$10,000 bond pending a hear­
ing Nov. 5. 
Soto was the second person 
arrested on that charge since 
Hurricane Andrew battered 
south Florida on Aug. 24, au­
thorities said. 
According to Federal Emer­
gency Management Agency 
spokesman Marvin Davis, Soto 
owned a mobile home in 
Homestead that he rented out 
until Hurricane Andrew dam­
aged it. 
"He evicted the renter and 
claimed the damaged mobile 
home was his primary resi­
dence" so he would qualify­
falsely -for a new FEMA 
mobile home, Davis said. 
"Then the evicted renter 
drove by and saw the new 
(mobile home), and he brought 
it to our attention." 
Court documents show that 
Soto and his wife live in 
Aguadilla, Puerto Rico. 
-----~­


Tuesday, October 27,1992 
The Observer 
Z0%13PE, A BLOODY BRAIN, A BlACK CAl, 
MAYBE, EVEN THREE WISE MEN ... WHO KNOWS WHAT YOU'LL FIND AT THE ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 





ON HA 
JLOWJEJEN. 



SATURDA OCTOBER 31, 1992 

PRIZES FOR THE BEST COSTUMES & LIVE DJ FROM 9PM-2AM 
HOPE TO SEE YOU AT THE BIGGEST ~~llOWfErE!Nl 

page 7 The Observer Tuesday ,October 27,1992 


Quebec vote may end reform 
TORONTO (AP) -Canadians voted Monday on constitutional reforms designed to appease cultural and regional grievances, but citizens in a single province could torpedo the package and the polls pointed to trouble in Quebec. 
The package originally was put together in an effort to dampen secessionist sentiment in French-speaking Quebec by granting that province special status and rights as a distinct culture. But it grew to include changes demanded by the less populous provinces and by Canada's aboriginal people. 
Many Canadians complained about the complexity of the long reform document signed by Prime Minister Brian Mulroney and premiers of the 10 provinces on Aug. 28. 
"It's kind of a confusing vote because I think there are a lot of people who don't know ex­actly what they're going to do," said Dereck Harnett, who stood in the rain waiting to vote at a polling station in Newfound­land. ''I'm still not sure what I'm going to do." 
The referendum was really a non-binding plebiscite. The 
constitution can be amended only with approval of the fed­eral Parliament and the legisla­tures of all 10 provinces. 
But Mulroney said that if the package failed in any one province, the deal was dead. It would be "morally unaccept­able" for a provincial legisla­ture to pass the reforms after rejection by its voters, he said. 
Consequently, the overall national vote in this nation of 27 million people was less im­portant than results from indi­vidual provinces. The crucial test was in Quebec, the second most populous province where polls indicated a majority of voters would vote "No." 
Polls also said the accord faced defeat in British Columbia and possibly in the central provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan. The vote was too close to call in Ontario, the most populous province. 
Mulroney maintained a con­fident air despite the poll re­sults, predicting a "pleasant surprise" and victory for the "Yes" side. "My confidence is unshakable," he said after vot: ing. 
The key parts of the agree­ment signed at Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, recog­nize Quebec as a "distinct soci­ety" with the right to protect its French language and culture. It would guarantee Quebec a fourth of the seats in the House of Commons and a third of the Supreme Court's nine seats permanently. 
At the demand of other provinces, the reforms would change the appointed Senate to a directly elected body with each province having six members. The less populated provinces have complained about the political dominance of Ontario and Quebec, which have more than half Canada's people. 
The package also would grant aboriginal people the right to govern their own affairs. 
Quebec separatists are hoping to use a "No" vote in the province to rekindle a campaign for independence. That would be sometime down the road, however, as the separatist Parti Quebecois is still in opposition and provincial elections are not 
· 

due until 1994. 
GRADUATING MIS & CAPP 
Put 
Yourself 
In The 



Picture 
Reception Tuesday, October 27 7pm-9pm Notre Dame Room, Lafortune 
On-campus Interviews Wednesday, October 28 
creative, highly aware, focused go-getter, stop by the reception. Dress attire is casual. We are eager to discuss challenges and choices with May Graduates who have a background in one ofthe following areas: 
• 
MIS 

• 
CAPP 



There's a world ofopportunities at Kraft General Foods. So please visit with us­and what you'll hear could lead to a very colorful career. Look for us on campus this fall. An Equal Opportunity/ Affirmative Action Employer." 
KRAFTGENERAL FOODS 
A WORLD OF OPPORTUNITIES 

"Do you agree that the constitution of Canada should be renewed on the basis of the agreement reached on Aug. 28, 1992?" 
Points of referendum 

QUEBEC recognized as a distinct society; to hold at least three of nine seats ABORIGINAL POPULATION granted on the Supreme Court. inherent right for self-government. 
CULTURE entrenched as a provincial MEDICARE and other existing national jurisdiction, but the federal govemment programs are protected. A new 
continues to control national institutions cost-sharing program allows provinces to such as Canadian Broadcasting run their own programs with federal money Corporation. if they meet national objectives. 
NEW SENATE consists of six senators CONTROL OF FEDERAL MONEY is from each province and one from each optional to the provinces, including funds territory. for housing, forestry, mining, tourism, urban 
affairs and job training. 
HOUSE OF COMMONS provides extra seats for Ontario, Quebec, Brnish CONTROL OF IMMIGRATION AND Columbia and Alberta. Quebec is REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT permanently guaranteed 25% of the seats. is optional to provinces. 
SENIORS 
AP!Wm. J. Castello 

Tourists in Egypt targets 
of militants 
ASSIUT, Egypt (AP) -For the first time, foreign tourists are finding themselves targets in the escalating battle between Egypt's secular government and Muslim militants who want to create an Islamic state. 
The fundamentalists' attacks on tourists are not widespread, and have not occurred in major tourist areas. But even so, offi­cials are worried. 
Tourism this year became Egypt's No. 1 earner of foreign exchange, contributing $3 bil­lion to the country's economy. So doing damage to the tourist trade could be a potent weapon for the fundamentalists. 
"The attacks on tourists symbolize attacks against the security system and against the economy," said No'oman el­Dab'e, a law student who de­scribed himself as a moderate but appeared to have militant sympathies. 
In addition, a distaste for for­eigners' behavior could play a role. 
"Tourists are immoral. They drink alcohol. Their men and women mix freely. We are against all that," said Sheik Mahmoud, a fundamentalist 
preacher and a member of the Islamic Group -el-Gama'a el­Islamiya -a loose national or­ganization of militants. 
"If they come here just to visit the historic spots, that's fine," said Sheikh Mahmoud, interviewed at his mosque near Assiut, 200 miles south of Cairo and a militant stronghold. "But they must behave themselves." 
Islamic Group members and sympathizers are believed to number about 150,000 to 200,000. About 10,000 of them are believed to engage in vio­lence. 
During the summer, extremist violence and police reaction to it left more than 70 militants, police and Coptic Christians dead. 



'"know"'"' M~ell Iloo"
coffee, Jell-0 gelatin, Miracle Whip, Velveeta cheese, Kool-Aid, Philadelphia Brand cream cheese, Oscar Mayer hot dogs, Claussen pickles, Tombstone pizza and Entenmann's cookies-to name a few. We're Kraft General Foods, a familiar sight in almost every American home -and millions ofothers worldwide. Meet the people behind the products. 
KGF's representatives are coming to talk with graduating seniors interested in a position in Infonnation Systems within the Chicagoland area. Ifyou're a 
Tuesday, October 27,1992 

page 8 The Observer 

Rabin: lsreali attacks will not derail talks 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin on Monday accused Syria of abet­ting Muslim guerrillas who killed five Israeli soldiers with a bomb in southern Lebanon. But he pledged to go on negotiating peace with the Arabs. 
Rabin said Syria was allowing Iranian weapons to reach fundamentalist Muslim guerril­las via Damascus and letting them operate in areas of Le­banon under Syrian military control. 
He said it was "greatly puz­zling" that Syria could "sit with us at negotiations, and on the other hand permit such activi­ties." 
Israeli warplanes, helicopter gunships and artillery pounded targets in southern Lebanon during the day and into the night in retaliation for the bombing attack Sunday in an Israeli-occupied buffer zone. It was the deadliest attack against Israeli forces in two years. 
Israel's military command said its forces hit suspected guerrilla bases of the pro-Iranian Hezbollah, which is trying to force the Israelis from Lebanon and also wants to wreck the Middle East peace talks. 
Security sources in Lebanon said targets in dozens of vil­lages were hit. Lebanese police said the bombardment killed at least one civilian and wounded five. 
Rabin made his comments during a briefing of parliamen­tary colleagues before deliver­ing a policy statement to Par-
Cold fusion's existence still unknown 
TOKYO (AP) -Believers and skeptics remained at odds over the existence of low-tempera­ture nuclear fusion as an inter­national conference on cold fu­sion wound up on Monday. 
Still, the Japanese government and a major American electrical utility group say they will spend millions for research into what they say is an exciting new phenomenon -but prob­ably not fusion. 
At the five-day conference in Nagoya, western Japan, and a follow-up session in Tokyo on Monday, the 300 scientists dis­cussed claims by dozens of re­searchers that they had gen­erated excess heat in experi­ments in which special elec­trodes were used to run elec­tricity through water containing "heavy" hydrogen. 
While some are claiming the heat is caused by nuclear fusion -a notion flatly dismissed by most mainstream scientists ­others say the heat must be coming from some other pro­cess. 
Japan's trade ministry, which is planning to spend up to $25 million on such research over the next four years, has settled on calling it "new hydrogen energy." 
Michael McKubre, whose re­search at SRI in Palo Alto, Calif., is funded by the Electric Power Research Institute, is equally cautious about naming the cause of the heat he is ob­serving. EPRI has spent $4 million on McKubre's work and 
Jlans another $8 million. 
liament coinciding with the re­sumption of peace talks in Washington. 
Earlier, some opposition lawmakers demanded that Is­rael respond to a surge in at­tacks on Israelis by recalling its negotiators from the U.S.­sponsored peace talks. But in his speech, Rabin declared: "We are continuing with the peace negotiations." 
His address was broadcast live on radio and television to a nation reeling in shock and burying its dead from the bombing Sunday in southern Lebanon and another attack that killed one soldier in the oc­cupied West Bank. 
"Despite the hardships, de­spite the deeds of murder and terrorism," the government "is determined to make a serious effort to reach peace with" Arab states and Palestinians liv­ing in the occupied territories, Rabin said. 
Coming on top of three other killings of Israelis the past two weeks, Sunday's attacks sig­naled to Israelis that they are no less vulnerable than before the June 23 election that brought Rabin and his moder­ates to power. 
On Monday, as Rabin was in Parliament appealing to the Palestinians to disavow vio­lence, a firebomb was thrown at an Israeli farmer on the bor­der between Israel and the West Bank, the army said. Arabs took him to a hospital suffering from burns and smoke inhalation, the army said. 

Fresh from the oven 
Seniors Meli~sa Larmoyeux and Sheryl Bradtke prepare to cut a fresh deluxe pizza for some hungry cu­tomers last mght at the Huddle. 

Israel says peace talks progressing 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Syria's delegate to the Middle East peace talks accused Israel on Monday of negotiating in bad faith, but his Israeli counterpart .said three hours of discussions produced progress toward a joint statement. 
After a three-day recess, the talks resumed in an atmosphere charged by the deaths of five Israeli soldiers in southern Lebanon and Israel's retaliation with attacks on suspected guerrilla bases in the region. 
Syrian delegation spokesman Mowaffaq Allaf emerged from the discussion blaming Israeli occupation policies for violence and saying there was "no real attempt" by the Israelis to en­sure progress during Monday's talks. 
He said Israel either does not want progress at this time or the Israeli delegation has been instructed not to move forward . Not only was there no progress, "there might be some regression," Allaf said. 
But Israeli delegate Hamar Rabinovich differed sharply in his account of the meeting, ex­pressing surprise on learning of Allafs remarks. 
"We agreed on some points, we kept reservations on others," Rabinovich said. "And certainly we didn't have a sense of regression, but a sense of working seriously towards a joint statement." 
He sought to dismiss the dif­fering interpretations of the meeting with a joke: "We were not in the same movie." 
Arriving for the talks Monday, Allaf said he was concerned about a statement by Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin that Israel does not plan to pull back fully from the Golan Heights. 
"If Israel is not considering withdrawal. that means in other words that Israel is not considering peace," Allaf said. "Peace without withdrawal is impossible, and it is a precondi­tion for peace really for Israeli forces (to) withdraw from all occupied territories." 

CeaSe fire brings little relief to struggling Mozambique 
MAPUTO, Mozambique (AP)­The new cease-fire bears a striking resemblance to the country's vicious 16-year war, with the government and rebels still exchanging bullets and accusations, leaving millions of desperate civilians caught in the crossfire. 
From barefoot peasants in the drought-scorched countryside to diplomats in the white­washed villas of tropical Ma­puto, people are skeptical the Oct. 4 truce will end the war between the leftist government and right-wing rebels that claimed up to 1 million lives. 

ATTENTION JUNIORS: 
• Would your parents like to stay at the Morris Inn during JPW? 
• Stop by the Junior Class Office in 
LaFortune to enter the lottery on Oct. 28, 29, & 30 (Wed., Fri.), from 3, 5 pm. 



1·-----------------------­
1 University of Notre Dame I 1 International Study Program I I at I I I 
: ANGERS, FRANCE : 
1 1993-94 Academic Year I 
II "FRENCH COMMERCIALS AND ~ I COMMERCIAL FRANCE" I 
I A Frank Discussion Of France Today I 1 With Professor Paul McDowell · I 
II WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 211, 1992 
I 

7:00 P.M. I 
I ROOM 116 O'SHAUGHNESSY I I 
I ALL THOSE INTERESTED IN ANGERS ARE WELCOME! Jl 
~-----------------------­
"The fighting seems to be going very well," Aldo Ajello, the recently arrived United Na­tions special representative, said with a wry smile when asked about peace prospects. "We clearly need to start work­ing on the peace process im­mediately." 
He organized a meeting Monday between government 
and rebel leaders in Maputo to set up monitoring groups called for in the cease-fire. 
Ajello's mediation carries added urgency as southern Africa suffers its worst drought this century. More than 3 mil­lion Mozambicans are totally dependent on food aid in a hu­manitarian crisis probably the most serious in the world after Somalia. 


WANTED 

HAVE YOU SEEN THIS MAN? 
Ifyou have, then inform your friends to beware of his vicious comedy! Report to Washington Hall on Friday, November 6th at 8 p.m. to find out for yourself just how dangerous his wit is. 
(Tickets on sale at the LaFortune Information desk for $3) 

Tuesday, October 27,1992 The Observer 
ELECTION '92 

Perot defends his allegations 
DALLAS (AP) -Ross Perot Monday angrily defended his accounts of alleged Republican dirty tricks aimed at sabotaging his presidential campaign but said anew he had no proof. Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater called Perot "paranoid ... a crazy man." 
"I am sick and tired of you all questioning my integrity with­out a basis for it," Perot told reporters at an extraordinary session at his campaign head­quarters in Dallas. 
Perot strode in to a morning briefing his aides were conduct­ing to deliver an angry state­ment defending his conduct. He refused repeated requests to identify the sources he said had informed him of the alleged GOP plot. 
Perot said he had become convinced there was a smear campaign when President Bush canceled plans to meet with him after Perot insisted the meeting include a discussion of "this plan to smear my daughter and disrupt her wed­ding." 
Perot said he now accepts Bush campaign denials of his allegations that Republicans planned to sabotage his cam­paign by smearing his daughter and wiretapping his office. "I accept their word," he said. "I . accept their denial." 
Perot also conceded: "I could not prove that this occurred." 
Perot also accused ABC of having a "death wish to inac­curately report a story" for air­ing a report questioning his charge that a hit team once in­filtrated his estate but was chased off by a guard dog and his security forces. 
"It did happen," Perot in­sisted. He said a security guard witnessed the incursion, which allegedly occurred 20 years ago, but refused to identify the 

Happy 21st Birthday Scott Keegel 
Still Partying! 
Love You, Mom, Dad and Loran 
guard. "I don't have to prove anything to you people," he said. "Unless the dog can talk I'm not sure we can ever satisfy you," Perot said. 
Perot said reporters would know his story was true "when you look at the piece of that guy that the dog had in his mouth." 
Perot complained the episode had shifted attention away from the issues in the final day of the campaign. although he raised the story himself Sunday on the campaign trail. 
He was sharply critical of both his Republican and Democratic opponents. at one point saying that Democrat Bill Clinton was "moving toward socialism" before backtracking to explain that he meant the Democrats wanted more and more government. He said that the Republican policy of trickle­down economics had not suc­ceeded. 
Perot's extraordinary charges -and today's extraordinary news conference -come after a week in which he surged in polls although remaining a distant third. His resurgence was attributed to his strong performances in the three presidential debates and spending $30 million on his campaign in a recent six-week period. 
Pollsters in both parties said Perot's support appeared to hit a plateau late last week, and many predicted his latest, un­substantiated allegations would hurt his candidacy. They also raised new questions about Perot's penchant for heavy se­curity and his occasional use of private detectives to investigate employees and even campaign volunteers. 


AssociATE VICE PRESIDENT
UNIVERSITY OF NoTRE DAME UNIVERSITY RELATIONS
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 219/239-S 122 
October 20, 1992 
To the Editor of the Observer: 
As the major filming of the movie "Rudy" gets underway, may I remind the Notre Dame community that some minor inconveniences will come with it. 
Members of the production company and others involved in the movie are very appreciative of the hospitality thus far extended them, and they hope to make their own small contribution to the educational endeavor here, principally through liaison with the Department of Art, Art History and Design and the Department of Communication and Theater. 
Please understand, however, that some minor disruption of campus routine is inevitable. You may not be able to use a customary sidewalk on a given afternoon, or find a roadway briefly closed or a campus location temporarily off-limits. The producers are committed to keeping these to a minimum, but they ask your forbearance and patience in advance. 



Upcoming Events 
THURSDAY.OCTOBER29 
A Symposium of Diverse Views 
•THE FUfURE OF PEACE AND SECURITY STUDIES IN A CHANGING WORLD" 
Presentations by: 
Gloria Duffy, 
President, Global Outlook 
Thomas F. Malone, 
Director, Sigma Xi, The Scientific 
Research Society 
Richard Ullman, 
Princeton University 
Stephen Walt, 
University of Chicago 
Theodore Moran, School of Foreign 
Service, Georgetown University 
Bruce Russett, Yale University 
Carolyn Stephenson, University or Hawaii 
3:00-5:30 p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Everyone Welcome 
INSTITUTE FOR 
Ill INTERNATIONAL 



I IIIII~N~!~o;~?!:~ 
-
page 10 The Observer 
ELECTION '9 2 

Election Briefs 
Clinton performs well on shopping test 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. (AP)-From bread to blue jeans, Bill Clinton priced Debbie Gilbert's shopping list on Monday and got a passing grade from the working mother who said the nation's leader must be "in touch with what the average American family has to go through." 
"Gasoline is about $1.20 depending on what kind of gasoline it is. Hamburger meat's a little over $1. A gallon of milk's $1.02. A loaf of bread's about $1 now," Clinton said after he was asked what he thought these items cost. 
The Arkansas governor said he knows some doctors who "still do visits for $15.... 1 do, but not many," he added when some in his audience reacted skeptically. 
Blue jeans, he said in an appearance on CBS's "This Morning" that was televised live, "run anywhere from $18 to $50 depending on what kind you get." 
It was a devastatingly simple question of the type that can easily trip up anyone who has spent the past year running for office. Gilbert said the Democratic presidential nominee had done a "pretty good" job of answering her question on the cost of everyday consumer items. 
"I don't believe that politicians know what it's like to be in the shoes of the average American family," said Gilbert, one of several participants in a question­and-answer session with Clinton. 
Clinton agreed that isolation is a dan­ger for politicians. "Every now and then my wife and I just go out to the grocery store and talk to people and walk up and down the aisle," he told the mother of two who works part-time at a local hospital. 
Clinton's pop quiz on shopping came at the beginning of his eighth bus tour, a previously unknown type of campaigning that he and running-mate AI Gore have patented. 
This time the Democratic presidential candidate and his entourage traversed North Carolina, where the leaves are only now beginning to turn autumn col­ors, in a cavalcade of buses festooned with identical banners saying "Clinton­Gore '92 on the Road to Change Amer­ica." 
The motorcade had traveled only a few blocks after setting out when it ground to a halt and Clinton and Gore emerged to shake hands with a small crowd outside the Brunson Elementary School. Kids' jackets and school notebooks littered the ground where they had been jettisoned, and their owners slid down a playground embankment. Far too young to vote, they knew little about politics, but understood extra recess time. 

From there the buses wound to Greensboro, where Clinton, his wife and daughter, and Gore, his wife and their daughter, squeezed into Robinson's Restaurant. 
"All-American Breakfast," read a faded green sign above the entrance. "2 Farm Fresh Eggs Bac or Saus, Grits Homemade Biscuit or Toast $2.00." 
It was well past breakfast but too early for lunch and Clinton chatted with the Robinson family, the restaurant staff and patrons. His wife, celebrating her 45th birthday, was serenaded with "Happy Birthday." 
Beneath the old-fashioned feel to such a campaign day, the itinerary un­derscored Clinton's strength heading into the final week of the campaign. While President Bush was campaigning defensively in traditional GOP states, the Democrats could afford to devote a full day to North Carolina, a GOP state, and look ahead to two more days of intensive campaigning in other traditionally Republican Southern states. 
Woman loses lead 
•LOS ANGELES·'"""' Prospects for sending two California women to the Senate have dimmed amid setbacks in Rep. Barbara Boxer's nncA-·n(lWiPrf'n campaign. Her leads after Republican rival Bruce Herschensohn launched blistering television ads. Herschensohn's ads were effective because they undercutBoxer'scel}tral campaign theme that; as a womaJ1, she is the ultimate outsider who can pound some comm<m sense into the male­dominated Senate, said Shanto Iyengar, apolitical science professor at UCLA. 
Tobacco industry contributes to campaigns 

THE KEENAN AND PASQUERILLA EAST POLITICAL FORUM SERIES 
Presents: 
Forum #2 
THE 1992 ELECTION FROM THE PERSPECTIVE OF A COLLEGE STUDENT 
Featuring: 
Students of Keenan Hall and Pasquerilla East 
KEENAN HALL CO~ONS TUESDAY OCTOBER 27 7:00 P.M. 
The following questions will be addressed during this forum: 
1.) Which candidate do you feel will best represent the interests of the college age population on such matters as the economy, job growth, and social issues? 
2.) Which candidate do you feel has the best stance on issues affecting education? 
EVERYONE IS WELCOME TO ATTEND! 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The tobacco industry has given $1.7 million in campaign contributions to House and Senate members, consumer groups said Monday in charging that Congress' addiction to "death money" has come at the expense of public health. 
Senators collected $578,390 between Jan. 1, 1991, and June 30, 1992, while House members picked up another $1.16 million, said the report by Public Citizen's Health Research Group and the Advocacy Institute. 
The report tracked contributions from tobacco industry political action committees as well as individual executives and lobbyists. The study did 

American Heart&~ Association V 
not count contributions to challengers or candidates for open seats, who generally collect far less PAC money than incum­bents. 
"This report indicates why Congress has done extraordinarily little to combat the tobacco epidemic," said Dr. Sidney Wolfe, director of the Public Citizen Health Research Group. "Every time a tobacco-related bill is killed by lawmak­ers, thousands of Americans die." 
"Tobacco money buys influence to oppose federal legislation to increase tobacco taxes, to restrict tobacco advertising and promotion, and to enact other laws to control the use of this deadly substance," the report said. 

The report said Sen. Robert Kasten, R­Wis., was the top tobacco money recipient in the Senate with contributions of $59,402, while Majority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo., led in the House with $26,198. 
The authors described their report as an "unprecedented accounting of the extent to which tobacco money pervades Congress." 
"Congress is as addicted to tobacco money as a heavy smoker is to the nicotine in his Marlboros," said Cliff Douglas, tobacco policy director for the Advocacy Institute. 

Tonight at 7:30•239-6400 


After the Fall: Nov. 3 and Beyond 








Public Abrasion 
WVFI's Weekly Discussion of Campus Issues and Politics with Rich Delevan & Mike "Whitey" Griffin 
Guest Commentators Monica Yant and Pat McCarthy 
-------------------------------------------------------~ 
WVFI•s got an Octobe~ Su~p~ise. 
Adebate that won· tput you to sleep. 

U7esley Kirkpatrick 
• Clinton/Gore campaign coordi­nator for Notre Dame 

Prof Charles Rice 
• 
Former Indiana coordinator for Pat Buchanan's campaign 

• 
Respected conservative legal scholar 



--~-------------~--­


Business 
Tuesday, October 27, 1992 page 11 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
T-Bill rates steadily increasing 
• WASHINGTON -Interest rates on short­term Treasury securities rose in Monday's auction to the highest level in two months. The Treasury Department sold $11.88 billion in three-month bills at an average discount rate of 2.97 percent, up from 2.94 percent last week. An additional $11.85 billion was sold in six-month bills at an average discount rate of 
3.22 percent, up from 3.10 percent last week. The rates were the highest since Aug. 31 when three-month bills sold for 3.17 percent and six-month bills averaged 3.26 percent. In a separate report, the Federal Reserve said that the average yield for one-year Treasury bills rose to 3.48 percent last week, up from 3.26 percent the previous week. 

Ryan predicts record S&L profits 
• WASHINGTON -The top regulator of the nation's savings and loan institutions predicted on Monday the thrift industry would experi­ence record profits this year. Timothy Ryan, director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, said about 2,000 savings and loans with assets of about $900 billion remain in business three years after the beginning of the government's bailout program. The thrift office reported previously that net income for the first half of 1992 was more than triple the $885 million earned during the first half of 1991. 
Cost control fuels media profit 
• NEW YORK -Many major publicly-held newspaper publishers and broadcasters re­turned to profitability or posted modest earn­ings gains for the July-September period, ex­tending a pattern of slow recovery from one of the industry's worst years. Financial im­provement was fueled mainly by lower costs rather than advertising revenue growth has worried some analysts. Dow Jones & Co., Knight-Ridder Inc., Pulitzer Publishing Co. and McClatchy Newspapers Inc. were among those posting double-digit profit gains. Among broadcasters, the CBS Television network had a small profit, ABC posted a small loss and General Electric Co. said its broadcasting divi­sion that includes NBC had a loss. 
Lottery nets third best in sales 
• INDIANAPOLIS -The Hoosier Lottery, buoyed by large jackpots and improved sales in instant-winner games, expects to record its best sales figures in two years and third best in history this month, officials said Monday. Lottery Executive Director Jean Blackwell said that through Saturday the lottery had sold $47.7 million in tickets this month. By the end of the month, the lottery expects monthly sales to exceed the $51.3 million in sales for November 1989, the lottery's second month in existence. That would put this month third on the lottery's all-time sales list behind only Oc­tober 1989, the lottery's first month, when sales reached $64.9 million and December 1989, when sales totaled $61.3 million. 
American Express cuts 4,800 jobs 
• NEW YORK -American Express Co. said it will eliminate 4,800 jobs at its card and travel division under a major restructuring that resulted in a $342 million third-quarter charge against earnings. The restructuring and other problems caused American Express Monday to post a third-quarter loss of $205 million. ·American Express has faced intense pressure from other credit card issuers. Separately, American Express fired Chiat-Day­Mojo less than a year after the agency was given the $60 million assignment of creating advertising for its paY.ment cards. 
Continental losing on fare cuts 
• HOUSTON -Continental Airlines said it would cut fares to Europe by an average 35 percent fm: travel this winter, but competitors did not immediately match the discounts. The fare cut Monday comes as the airline industry was trying to push fares higher. The industry has increased fares about $10 to $30 twice in recent months, leading many to believe that widespread fare cutting had ended. 
Pre-election trade deal with Europe unlike1y 
LUXEMBOURG (AP) -France on Monday won backing from Germany to demand further American concessions over farm subsidy cuts, making it unlikely the dispute will be settled before the U.S. presidential elections. 
At the same time, Britain and the top farm negotiator for the European Community tried to ease French fears about giving ground to the United States over a global trade accord. 
"The Franco-German alliance still holds," said French Farm Minister Jean-Pierre Soisson. His colleague, Ignaz Kiechle of Germany, also has demanded more U.S. concessions in the farm battle. 
Earlier this month, President Bush told the European Commission, the trading bloc's executive agency, not to count on the United States to give any more. 
As part of the Uruguay Round trade talks, Washington has demanded extensive cuts in subsidies for the EC's 9 million farmers, something France has opposed. 
France had appeared to be isolated in its refusal to back down in the world trade talks, sponsored by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. But on Monday, Ireland and Denmark appeared hesitant to proceed quickly. 
"I don't think we'll have a GATT agreement before the American presidential elections," Danish Farm Minister Laurits Toernaes said. 
In a related development, the European Community denied its chief executive secretly arranged a deal with Bill Clinton to delay a world trade accord until after the presidential election. 
Bruno Dethomas, spokesman for Jacques Delors, the EC's chief executive, described as "simply absurd" a report by the Sunday Tele­graph of London that Delors had worked out an arrangement with Clinton to postpone any trade accord until after the Nov. 3 election. 
The Sunday Telegraph, citing unidentified agriculture sources, said Clinton campaign officials contacted Delors two weeks ago when it appeared the trade talks would be successful. It said that Delors, a French Socialist, would prefer the 


Failing banks not a threat according to regulators 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Plenty of troubled banks remain in danger of failing, but no banking crisis threatens to explode just after the election, senior regulators said Monday. 
"A significant number of commercial banks remain troubled, and their assets are substantial. However, there should be no so­called 'December surprise,"' Federal Reserve Board Gov. John LaWare told a rare post-adjournment hearing of the Senate Banking Committee. 
Andrew Hove, acting chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., predicted 100 to 120 banks with $37 billion in assets will fail this year and an additional 100 to 125 banks with $76 billion in assets will fail in 1993. 
But the $16 billion in reserves established by the agency, $6 billion a year in deposit insurance premium revenue and a $30 billion line of credit to taxpayer funds should be enough to pay for failures, he said. 
Hove said it was "simply not the case" that regulators are deliberately holding back on declaring failures before the election. 
The wide gap between the interest rates on deposits and on loans pro­duced a record $15.7 billion in bank profits during the first half of this year. These profits have postponed or avoided many of the failures that the FDIC had predicted for this year, he said. 
New regulatory standards taking effect Dec. 19 will not cause a significant increase in failures although they may hasten the closing dates for some banks, he said. 
The chairman of the committee, Sen. Donald Riegle, D-Mich., was the only member to attend the session, called just eight days before the election. He said he scheduled it be­cause of the sharp disagreement among reputable observers of the banking system. 
"Some say the industry is on the brink of healing itself. Some say it's on the brink of a major crisis," he said. 
But the ranking Republican on the panel, Sen. Jake Garn of Utah, and Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady issued statements rebuking Riegle for politicizing the issue. 
"Perhaps the senator finds it politically opportune to jump on the bandwagon of the fearmongers and doomsayers," Brady said. 
Garn said, "It is a mistake to frighten the public about the condition of the banking system for political advantage." 


Economy rebounding slowly 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The economy is about to mark an important mile­stone -surpassing the level of goods and services that peaked in 1990 ­but the good news may be of little comfort to President Bush's re­election effort. 
After three quarters of decline and six quarters of paltry growth, the gross domestic product totaled a seasonally adjusted rate of $4.89 trillion during the April-June quarter of this year. 
The peak was $4.9 trillion, hit during the second quarter of 1990, just before the recession began. And virtually all economists believe a Commerce Department report Tuesday will show output grew enough in the July-September period to top that. 
At that point, in economic parlance, the recovery will be over and the ex­pansion will begin. 
But instead of underscoring the economy's rebound, passage of the milestone only emphasizes how long it has taken to get there. 
"The problem is not that we've had the worst recession, it's that we've had the worst recovery," said Mark Zandi of Regional Financial Associates in West Chester, Pa. "We're experiencing growth, but it's not strong enough to make us feel good about where we are and where we're headed." 
The recession, which produced a 
2.2 percent decline in the GOP from the third quarter of 1990 through the first quarter of 1991, actually was about average in duration and sever­ity when compared with other post­World War II downturns. 

Democratic Clinton as president. Clinton denied the newspaper report Sunday. 
The mood among the 12 EC agriculture ministers contrasted sharply with the upbeat spirits at the EC Commission in Brussels. The Commission negotiates the GATT accord for the member states. 
"Things are going in the right direction," said Commission spokesman Nico Wegter. "There are good reasons to believe that they are really on the right track." The EC's trade chief, Frans Andriessen, post­poned a trip to Asia to try to help break the deadlock with the United states. 
"We're still working on the assumption that by Wednesday or Thursday the child might be born," Wegter said. 
Stemple resigns under pressure 
DETROIT (AP) -Robert Stempel resigned under pressure as General Motors Corp. chairman Monday, ending a 2-year-old command that failed to stop record financial bleeding at the world's largest au­tomaker. 
Stempel's departure makes his tenure the shortest of any of the 11 men who have chaired GM, once was one of the most profitable and admired American businesses. 
His job future had looked in­creasingly bleak in recent weeks, contributing to a sense of disarray and anxiety among many of GM's workers and managers. 
Published reports quoting unidentified GM board sources said he would be asked to resign because he was moving too slowly in cutting costs to stop devastating financial losses. 
"I could not in good conscience continue to watch the effects of rumors and speculation that have undermined and slowed the efforts of General Motors people to make this a stronger, more efficient, effective organization," Stempel said in a statement. 
The 59-year-old automotive engineer had kept a low profile since Wednesday, when he angrily denied the board was trying to evict him from the company he joined in 1958. 
But a statement Thursday from John Smale, chairman of the board's executive committee, amounted to a no-confidence vote. Smale said no management changes had been made, but, "The question of executive leadership is a primary concern." 
Smale, 65, former chairman of Procter & Gamble Co., is expected to be named interim chairman when the GM board meets Nov. 2 in New York. 
Smale said in a statement Monday the board had accepted Stempel's resignation and asked Stempel to continue as chairman until a successor is named. Stempel said he would comply. 
GM stock was trading at midafternoon at $33.37 1/2, down 12 1/2 cents. 
Wall Street analysts weren't surprised Stempel resigned rather than wait to be fired. But none interviewed felt a new chairman would make much difference in the 84-year-old automaker's attempts to regain the competitive edge. 
GM's core auto business in North America has been hammered during the recession, which began about the time Stempel succeeded Chairman Roger Smith in August 1990. 

Viewpoint 
page 12 Tuesday, October 27, 1992 
The Observer 


P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ..........••.........• David Kinney Advertising Manager •....... Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .............•.... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......•.. Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor .•••........ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager ••............ Patrick Barth Photo Editor .........•. Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller •...............••••.... David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Don't cloud election year with non-issues 
Dear Editor: 
I am never more offended when an anti-choice individual claims that I am sinning against God and Our Lady by voting for Governor Clinton. 
I have been called a baby­killer and have seen a prayer book from Operation Rescue that calls for me to repent or be struck down by God. 
What upsets mo most is that here at one of the finest institu­tions in the country, with its ex­cellent Philosophy department, so many students refuse an honest debate on this subject and turn instead to dema­goguery. 
Why must one side portray the other as being "radical"? When one thinks of radical, one thinks of a position that only a very few espouse. 
However, a poll taken of reg­istered Republicans (yes, Re­publicans) found that 71 per­cent believed in a woman's right to choose. 
Granted, a majority does not prove a belief correct (we elected George Bush, after all), but it does suggest that the be­lief should be open to debate rather than slurs against one's opponents. 
This refusal for an honest de­bate has been shown often dur­ing this election season. Rob Schlosser, in his letter to the editor, said that Governor Clinton was not fit to serve as Commander-in-Chief because he used " ... a narcotic." 
I wonder if Rob believes that Clarence Thomas is not fit to be a Supreme Court Justice for the same reason. I doubt it very highly because Thomas agrees 
DOONESBURY 
with Rob on Rob's pet issue. 
Clinton's marijuana use is a non-issue that Republicans use to cloud the truth. 
Rob also suggests Clinton's lack of military service makes him ineligible for service. Does he object in the same way to our secretary of defense who avoided the draft in a similar way? 
Granted, Governor Clinton may not have been completely open about all of the details pertaining to the subject; but I believe that it is wrong to judge someone for avoiding a war that he, along with most of the country, believed was morally wrong. 
One who was not facing the hellish situation of Vietnam cannot truly understand the decisions of those who were. The Vietnam draft issue is re­ally only being used because Republicans must run away from the record of the worst economic performance since the Great Depression. 
If you believe that abortion is the main issue, most Americans disagree with you, ranking it well low on their list. 
For these Americans voting for Clinton, many of whom are anti-choice, it is not a sin to be voting for the man whose plans give them hope that America will be great again. 
Let's not cloud their vision with non-issues or look down upon them self-righteously as sinners for believing in a place called Hope again. 
Brian Hipp Cavanaugh Hall Oct. 13, 1992 


America is 'looking forward' 
Dear Editor: 
As you prepare for your fu­tures, many of you are worried about whether there will be jobs for you when you graduate -jobs in which you can apply all you've learned, and through which you can realize the American dream. 
I know the feeling. Shortly after I was graduated from col­lege, Barbara and I moved to Texas with our young family to begin a life of our own. I started a business, raised a family, and eventually began my career in politics. 
I want all of you to have the opportunity to graduate from college, repay your student loans, begin your careers, and start families of your own. 
My Agenda for American Re­newal will do just that by rein­vigorating America's economy and creating jobs and opportu­nities for all Americans while protecting our environment. 
Revitalizing America's econ­omy starts with individuals, families, and communities. 
It requires lower taxes on in­dividuals and businesses, en­hancing competition, and cut­ting regulation. 
It includes health care for all Americans, child care, job training, housing opportunities, a competitive school system based on community involve­ment, and choice American families. 
My Agenda prepares Amer­ica's youth for the 21st century by promoting national academic standards so schools like Notre Dame have a strong student population from which to draw. 
For you college students, my administration calls for the largest-ever one-year increase in student Pell Grants, and a 50 percent increase in the amounts of individual Pell Grant awards. 
In addition, I want to raise the loan limit on guaranteed student loans and make the interest on student loans de­ductible for federal income tax purposes. 
My Agenda calls for continued substantial funding for re­sponsible environmental pro­tection. 
The United States has the toughest environmental laws on earth, and it was the Bush Administration that proposed and negotiated the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, which I signed as the most pro­tective and market-oriented clean air laws in the world. 
My administration also estab­lished a moratorium on off­shore oil and natural gas drilling; accelerated the phase­out of ozone harming sub­stances; added more than 1.5 million acres to America's na­tional parks, wildlife refuges, and other public lands; tripled the rate of toxic waste site cleanups since 1989; and col­lected more fines and penalties and secured more prison sen­tences for environmental crimes in the last three years than in the previous 20 years combined. 
I call upon the youth of today to take up the entrepreneurial challenge and join me in mak­ing America the economic, ex­port, education and environ­mental leader of the 21st cen­tury. Let's win the peace by looking forward, not inward. 
My Agenda for American Re­newal empowers all Americans to make their own choices and better their lives. No one will be left behind for want of op­portunity. 
Good luck to you, and may you achieve your goals in life. 
President George Bush Off-Campus Oct. 13, 1992 
Editor's note: The Observer has not received Jeffers from any of the other presidential candidates to date. 


R&roRJB?LY, 'tWA9!<13P H~NAN/J MUBAF?AJ< lD (JR5£ 54/JPAM 7tJEJYrf8 aeP INIRAN. lH/G 54/?f/A'rl Off), UJITHIN 48 HOURS. 
NOT UJN6 AFT#?, IRAN 
CAM&7VOSFOR 
/}£fl;N5{3 UJJ:;,qK,W'::J. 
YOU Mf.tlN,IT.., IT(Q()J?I<&P? NOT THAT 17 &V£1?.. 
liAPff/VW. 
/ 
YOU'!?& Klf?IJIN6. 
NO ON&&veN aN!i/?AT­IJLA7l?/? 
Y(){J~ 
I 

'1m a good guy. I send my kids to Christian schools. Don't blame me, look in your homes.' 
Ozzy Osborne 
Alter winning court case where he was accused of inspiring suicide in his music 

Take a shot in the dark, submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

-----------~~---------­
----------~---------­
Viewpoint
Tuesday, October 27, 1992 page 13 

Television needs a dose of some biblical realism 
"Don't bother me with the facts. My mind's made up." 
Why the attempt to censor television ads which show the reality of abortion? Why the ef­forts to suppress these facts? 
The answer is obvious. There are many who simply do not want the truth to be known, for fear it will change minds and actions. 
These abortion supporters would prefer that we all speak of "choice," "reproductive free­dom," "women's rights" and such; that is, of almost anything except abortion itself. 
But we dare not do so. The truth must be told. Here are succinct descriptions of what actually takes place in an abor­tion (taken from Charles Rice, Fifty Questions on Abortion): 
• 
In dilation and curettage, the entrance to the womb is dilated and the child is cut to pieces and removed piece by piece. In suction abortion, a tube attached to a high-pow­ered vacuum is inserted into the womb, the child is pulled apart and the parts are sucked into a glass jar. 

• 
In saline abortion some of the amniotic fluid in which the 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
child rests is withdrawn and replaced by a toxic saline solu­tion which poisons the child and severely burns his skin. He usually dies within 90 minutes; within 72 hours the mother goes into labor and delivers a dead child. 
We need to adhere to the pat­tern of biblical realism. For ex­ample, the psalmist writes: "And they_ shed innocent blood, the blood of their sons and daughters, whom they sacri­ficed to the idols of Canaan, desecrating the land with bloodshed." (Psalm 106: 38) 
There cannot be an abortion without the shedding of blood, innocent blood, and, almighty God has revealed to us, there 

Guest Columnist 
can be no shedding of innocent blood that does not pollute the land and cry to heaven for vengeance. 
As with the abortion issue, so also with respect to the homo­sexuality issue. There are many who would have us talk of everything but homosexuality. 
Homosexuality is not about "gay rights," "alternative lifestyles," etc. It is about (and we must say it straight out) anal intercourse, oral copulation, and worse. 
We are dealing with unnatu­ral acts, perversity, and grievous violations of the law of God. 
"We must begin," David Chilton writes in his book Power in the Blood, "with a rather basic and obvious point." He continues: 
• 
God designed the vagina to be penetrated by a penis. The vaginal walls can stretch, and they are naturally lubricated during intercourse. 

• 
The anus and rectum, in contrast, were not designed for sexual activity. They were cre­ated to excrete feces, period. The rectum is neither elastic nor lubricated; consequently, anal intercourse routinely tears 


the lining of the rectum and causes the anus to split and crack into bleeding fissures. 
• These tears and fissures become channels for HIV (AIDS virus) to pass into the blood­stream. 
Again, we need a dose of bib­lical realism. In his letter to the Romans, St. Paul warned of the wrath of God being revealed "against the irreligious and perverse spirit of men who, in this perversity of theirs. hinder the truth." (Rom. 1) 
He spoke bluntly: "Their women exchanged natural in­tercourse for unnatural, and the men gave up natural inter­course with women and burned with lust for one another. 
Men did shameful things with men, and thus received in their own persons the penalty for their perversity...They know God's just decree that all who do such things deserve death; yet they not only do them but approve them in others." 
Let the debate continue, but only with all the cards on the table. 
Edward J. Murphy is the Matthews Professor of Law at the Notre Dame Law School 
Examination of Clinton's past helps us decide for future 
Dear Editor: 
The United States does not need a president or any other sort of leader who cannot be forthcoming with the people of America. Even the most cursory examination of Bill Clinton's record and career produces a tapestry of glaring half-truths and clever sleights-of-hand. 
Examples are plentiful: his pathetically comical evasion of the marijuana issue ("I never broke any of the drug laws of this country"). the saga-length episode surrounding what he did to avoid the draft, the memory lapse surrounding his trip to Moscow in 1969, and the cooked numbers of his eco­nomic plan. 
Certainly the American people deserve better than someone for whom the truth is not absolute, but rather a variable dependent on his po­litical viability. 
For some, personal character and integrity remain imperative in a leader. However, there are those who denigrate such topics as irrelevant in presidential politics. 
The perfidy of the economic plan, Bill Clinton's "Putting People First," deserves attention all the more, because no one can argue about the necessity of responsible stewardship of this country's economy. Bill Clinton's economic plan is as fraught with fancy footwork and elusive behavior as his personal life. 
The gimmicks are evident from the outset. For instance, Clinton uses semantics in an attempt to throw the readers of his plan off the tax-and-spend trail, speaking of "investment," rather than admitting that it is needed spending that is at the heart of his economic plan. 
By using the word "investment," Clinton tries to lead voters into believing there will be an impending positive return on their tax dollars. However, spending without reform, such as school choice for parents and students, simply perpetuates the climate of wasteful spending that has characterized Congress for years. 
There is over 200 billion dollars of new spending proposed in the plan itself, and Clinton fails to include the cost of his national health-care plan, which will raise the total spending level to $416.5 billion. 


In the same breath, Clinton tries to convince the American public that he intends to cut spending in certain areas. Upon closer examination, however, his assertions ring hollow. 
Governor Clinton bases them on gimmickry and false assumptions. For starters, Clin­ton inexplicably uses a four year projection rather than the standard five years in order to artificially create lower levels of spending and taxation. 
He uses such vague pronouncements as an "unspecified three percent administrative cut" and "RTC reform" to claim spending cuts of $39.1 billion. 
When Governor Clinton does get around to offering plausible economic prescriptions for the American economy, the real 


CLINTOM-~ 

Debaters also agreed on issues 
Dear Editor: 
Alex Montoya's coverage of the Keenan Hall forum in which Professor Ralph Mcinerny and I participated (The Observer, Oct. 
13) did a fine job of delineating our differences on what constitutes adequate policy for reducing the incidence of abortion. 
What space did not permit Mr. Montoya to include is that there was also significant agreement between us. 
Both Professor Mcinerny and I articulated our positions within the framework of official Catholic teaching in general and on abortion in particular. 
The first half-hour of the fo­rum focused largely on this shared framework. 
Our differences regarded the question of what combination of public policies best encourages practice consonant with Catholic teaching. 
Professor Mcinerny empha­sized laws limiting access to abortion. and so backed George Bush. 
I stressed that a comprehen­sive policy approach -in com­bination with efforts by non­governmental associations like the church -would also assure women with unintended preg­nancies adequate aid for the full eighteen years of care that is required for the child that re­sults if the pregnancy is brought to term. 
Given Mr. Bush's record in this regard. I could not endorse him. Neither could I endorse Governor Clinton. 
One must still vote, but no candidate in the present elec­tion is worthy of endorsement on the basis of Catholic teach­ing. 
Todd David Whitmore Assistant Professor of Christian Ethics Department of Theology 
source of these ideas is Presi­dent Bush. 
The list of pirated proposals include a permanent and development tax credit, a reduction in the capital gains tax and lTC adjustments for the Alternative Uranium Tax. Some of the president's initiatives have already been sabotaged by Democrat congressional leaders, stuck in backwater subcommittees or burdened with unacceptable, irrelevant measures that make them veto­bait. 
Others Congress simply rejects out of hand, unwilling to do anything positive for the American people that might in turn reflect well on President Bush. 
If elected, perhaps Bill Clin­ton, too, faces little chance of getting these measures passed by Congress. More likely, his support of these Republican proposals implies what many around Washington have known for a long time: that the Democratic leadership on Capi­tol Hill has played a game of partisan politics with President Bush's sound economic pro­posals. 


However, in this game the hardest hit has not been the President, but the working men and women of America who should have benefited long ago from these initiatives with more jobs and greater economic security. 
Undeniably, one of the fore­most issues in this year's pres­idential campaign has been change, and Bill Clinton has attempted to act as its standard bearer by coloring his own brand of "smoke and mirror" economics, with several stolen and appealing Republican pro­posals. 
However, on Nov. 3 the American people will pick which candidate's form of "change" they will live with for the next four years. I have faith that the American voters will see the hollowness of Bill Clin­ton's proposals and character and realize that this is not the ­type of change, or leadership, our country needs. 
Jim Doran 
Grace Hall 
Oct. 13, 1992 

Honest person appreciated 
-. 
by man who lost his wallet 
Dear Editor: 

The nicest thing happened to me a few days ago. 
Last Friday I could not find my wallet. After searching through my car and apartment and coming up with nothing, I was led to believe I had lost it somewhere on campus. 
This did not exactly thrill me, since I had a good amount of cash, my credit card, and all of my identification enclosed. 
I received a call from the De­Bartolo building manager on Sunday informing me that my wallet had been turned in to him. 
When I picked my wallet up on Monday, I was more than pleasantly surprised to find that everything, including the cash, was still in the wallet. The per­son who turned it in did not leave his or her name. 
I want to take this opportunity to thank the honest person and let them know how much I appreciate this. 
I can only say that I hope that 
-· 

I can do the same for someone else someday. Thanks again. 
Todd Reynders Off-Campus October 13, 1992 

~----.~----------~----~------­

-~~ 





Accent 
page 14 Tuesday, October 27, 1992 

ND alum hits national scene with new CD, 'Journey of a Dreamer' 
By LYNNE BRAGG Klee not only sings all vocals on his CD, Accent Writer but he also plays every instrument. 
From a standing ovation at the first "It took me about ten weeks in the annual Keenan Review to the national studio to record all the instrumental and release of his new CD, Notre Dame vocal parts, and then track them all alumnus Dennis Klee said he has together," he said. "It is pretty intense entered the stage in his life in which he because you must keep doing it over and has always wanted to be a top over until it is perfect." performing artist. Klee said that he hopes each of his 
song evokes some emotion in the 
His new CD, titled 'Journey of a listener. In the record jackets, Klee Dreamer' will be released in early includes a personal statement about November. He said it is an overture of each of the songs. songs which capture the last ten years of Klee's life. "If you build your soapbox to say 
something, you must be able to relate to 
"These are a combination of songs I the audience," he said. "When I have an have been writing my whole life," said emotional experience, I play it out in my Klee. "They all freeze a moment in time music and I hope that the feelings are for me, and each of the songs is a universal to all audiences." reflection of that moment." 
His music is pop rock with ballad­Klee is now based in Richmond, oriented overtones. "People compare my Virginia and is hoping with the national music to Kenny Loggins, Jimmy Buffett, release of his new CD, he will be able to 
Dennis Klee, a Notre Dame graduate, put his musical instrument to work in 'Journey of a
and Richard Marx, but I'd like to think I reach a larger audience. 
Dreamer,' his premiere CD. 
have my own distinct sound," he said. 
sang his own vocals. During his junior stayed in the business for a while He has done numerous T.V. and radio Klee said he has been in music his year at Notre Dame, he and his brother because of the promotions and money, appearances in Virginia, and has had whole life, beginning at the age of five Doug performed at the first annual but sooner or later, he knew he had to pieces done on him by the NBC, ABC and 
when he started his ten years of classical Keenan Review. get back into the music business before CBS affiliates. He plays a club in the piano training. He also taught himself to "My brother and I were the first people he lost all hope of his dream to be a Richmond area which attracts a 
play the guitar by mimicking chord in the Keenan Review to get a standing singer. This stage in his life became the diversity of people. Standing room only, processions of the Beatles' songs. ovation in Washington Hall, " said Klee. inspiration for the song, 'Working World there are usually about 200-300 people Klee modeled himself after the music ''I'll never forget it . " Song.' a night. 
of the Beatles as well as Simon and During his senior year Keenan Review "On Thursday we get mostly students Garfunkel and Cat Stevens because their performance, he sang 'Dreaming Still,' After the breakup of his first band in from the University of Richmond and 
music was melodically oriented and told which is currently featured on the 1990, Klee said he decided that he VCU. Fridays is a mixture of yuppies and some kind of story. 'Journey of a Dreamer' CD. "It just goes wanted to perform alone. When he was students, and Saturday we get yuppies to show how the songs on this CD have singing with a band, he felt the music and people ranging from 40 to 60-years 
Klee said that during his sophomore been such a part of my life." was never really his own. He played the old." year in high school, he joined a rock lead guitar and piano while the band 'The Journeyman' has been released band and by the end of his senior year Klee said he never took a music class played the rest of the background. in singles, and Klee feels they have the band was one of the biggest rock at Notre Dame. gotten a tremendous response. 
bands in Buffalo, New York, playing local "It is hard to be trained by other However, Klee became frustrated with "All the radio stations have received clubs and CYO dances. Although there people in music because each person changes the songs underwent in the numbers of calls after playing the song." were recording prospects for the band, has their own certain style," he said. process of recording. "After the he said. "We played the song on U 93 
Klee left New York to go to school at "The students get confined to that style recording session, nine of the original one Friday morning and they got a great Notre Dame. and then there is no originality." songs had changed so dramatically that response from the listeners." While at Notre Dame, Klee played at After graduating with a degree in they were not the songs I wanted them 'The Journey of a Dreamer' is the coffeehouse, then known as "The American Studies, Klee went on to work to be." available at the Saint Mary's College Nazz." He played his own guitar and as a restaurant manager. He said he Now, with the exception of one song bookstore. 
fAutomatic lor the Peoplel reminisces R.E.M.Is earlier days 
makes roadtrip music for the
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
ages.
Music Critic 
Automatic for the People 
'Star Me Kitten' is another They're hot. They're 
kind of song. Exploring sexual happening. They've been 
R.E.M. 
-
desire as R.E.M. has rarely together since you were in 
done, the song's original title kindergarten, freshmen. You 
was eighty-sixed by Warner
* * * * 1/2 
Brothers, though the
know 'em. You love 'em. You've 
(out of five) 
entertainment giant fortunately times already. 
heard their new album 6 googol 
did no such thing to its lyrics, 
Listening to R.E.M. 's strings and less pop. which are largely unintelligible 'Automatic for the People' is a There are no shiny, happy except for the closing lines. mellow exercise. From the first people on this album. But with this album, Michael plucked strings of 'Drive,' the 'Automatic for the People' is full Stipe continues the gradual album's guitars, assorted of depressed, contemplative revelation of his lyrical talent. strings, and vocals try to lull people. Though R.E.M. never Early R.E.M. was not about you to sleep. Even Michael felt any sort of Reagan-era words. 'Wolves, Lower' and Stipe's vocals, which crossed giddiness (give "Document" a 'Sitting Still' had nothing to do the fine line between listen), the goofy tone of 'Near with the intricacies of Stipe's interesting and annoying on the Wild Heaven' and 'Stand' seems poetry. All we needed was a band's last two albums, are completely absent from mood and a chorus. back to some semblance of Automatic for the People. their early selves. He even And though the album owns a But through the years, Stipe mumbles a little bit. It's very title which indicates a bent has moved into new lyrical nice to be reminded of the old toward pleasing the mindless territory. Automatic for the days. radio-listening populace, its People's 'Everybody Hurts' and 
contents betray that notion. 'Sweetness Follows' are full of 
But niceness and convention musical feeling, but their lyrics surely weren't the band's aims 'Drive,' the first single, is not take R.E.M. to a different level. with this, its eighth album. really a single. The song sounds As it has shown consistently 'Automatic for the People' nothing like 'Can't Get There through its eight albums, continues R.E.M. 's complete From Here'but takes us down R.E.M. can take the usual rock detachment from traditional rural Georgia roads and reveals idiom and transform it into guitar-bass-drum structure and the metaphors of such journeys something new, yet familiar and toward something different. through a completely different comforting. 'Automatic for the This time, different means more sound and mood. R.E.M. still People' is all of that and more. 



-

The Observer 
Tuesday, October 27, 1992 
Tough times for traditional college powerhouses 
With five weeks left in the college football season, a number of ex-powerhouses seem to be bottoming out, operating in the also­ran area of a sport they once dominated. 
Consider some records. 
A year ago, Iowa was 10-1-1, making its 1Oth bowl appearance in 11 years, and armed with 35 returning lettermen. Now, the Hawkeyes are 3-5 after a 27-16 loss to Purdue on Saturday, tied with seven other teams for second place in the Big Ten and hoping to get rid of the other six to gain the conference runner-up's automatic invitation to the Florida Citrus Bowl. 
Clemson was 9-2-1 last season, champions of the Atlantic Coast Conference for the 13th time. That made the Tigers 49­10-1 over the five-year period beginning in 1987 -third best in the country, behind only Miami and Florida State. 
Beaten 20-6 by North Carolina State last Saturday, Clemson is 4-3 and out of the Top 25 for the first time in three years. It is the first time since 1985 that the Tigers have lost three ACC games. 
Arkansas, once a Southwest Conference powerhouse, decided it needed a new league and moved into the SEC. Mter the first game, the Razorbacks decided they also needed a new coach, dismissing Jack Crowe and replacing him with Joe Pate. They beat Tennessee by one point a couple of weeks ago for the lone bright spot in a 2­5 season. 
UCLA, 9-3 last year and ranked No. 18 in the preseason poll, is 3-4 and languishing in the Pac-1 0 basement with an 0-4 league record. The Bruins also had their 245­game scoring streak ended in a 20-0 loss to Arizona State on Saturday. 
LSU, once an SEC heavyweight, is now 1-6 and bending under the burden of a five-
game losing streak, the school's longest since 1956. The Tigers have locked up an unprecedented fourth straight losing season, making the current senior class the first in the school's 99-year football history to graduate without ever posting a winning record. 
Oklahoma was 8-3 a year ago, averaging 30 points per game and No. 16 in the final AP poll. Now the Sooners are 3-3-1, and licking their wounds after losing to -of all people-Kansas, 27-10 on Saturday. 
The victory left Kansas ranked No. 18 at 6-1 and Oklahoma, ranked in all but two years since 1970 and in the first six polls this season, missing in action among the top 25. 
"Things are changing," Kansas coach Glen Mason said. 
In a lot of places, too. 

The Observer reminds everyone to vote. It is your right and your future. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Actors/Actresses Needed !I  Need PSU tix  Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call  Need Penn State Tickets  Loving Catholic family longing to  
NOTICES  Student film, exp. nee. 287-4227.  Call Pat  Mike 234-8306  1-800-922-BEAR.  Please call:  Kara  x4174  adopt. We're concerned about you at this difficult time. Let's help each  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Need 2 BC GA's  other. Gloria 818-248-4890.  
ATIENTION:  EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our  I must have B.C. tickets!  Either  Joe#1112  
For more information and  circulars!...Begin NOW!... FREE  Student or G.A.'s.  My cousin and  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  
assistance regarding the investigation of financing, business  packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000.  his buddies are coming in from B.C. to watch their team get  I NEED 1 BC GA, DAVE, x4506  PERSONAL  Information on semester, year. graduate, summer and internship  
opportunities and work-at-home  slaughtered! Please help me out!  programs in Australia. We represent  
opportunities, THE OBSERVER  STUDENTS or ORGANIZATIONS.  I'M DESPERATE!!!!!!  X4990  Hey Niff  28 Australian Universities. Call us  
urges its readers to contact the  Promote our Florida Spring Break  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  toll free 1-800-245-2575.  
Better Business Bureau of  packages. Earn MONEY and FREE  OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES  
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  trips. Organize SMALL or LARGE  I NEED 3 BC GA'S AND 1 PENN  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  SHORT ON CASH ?  
Suite 9, South Bend. IN 46637­ groups. Call Campus Marketing.  ST GA, PRETTY PLEASE WITH A  I NEED 2 PENN STATE GA's !!  ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif.  
4200: or call the BBB at 219-277­ 800-423-5264.  CHERRY ON TOP.  Betsy 273-1792 (leave message)  family can provide financial security,  Stop by MORRISSEY LOAN  
9121 or 800-439-5313.  MIKE X2209  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  excellent education and wonderful  Mon.-Fri.: 11:30-12:30  
TYPING  FOR RENT  #$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$##$#$#$#$#  NEED BC TICKETS IN BIG WAY!  future for your baby. Please let us help you in this difficult time.  1st Floor Lafortune O'Hara Lounge  
287-4082  DEREK SCHNACK X1374  Confidential and legal. Medical  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  2 NAVY GAs for sale.  expenses paid. Collect anytime.  30 day loans up to $250  
WordWorks Typing Service  219-291-7153  California ALUM desperate for Penn  (818) 246-1763  @ 1% interest  
Term papers, dissertations, theses  ---------­ Call JACK at 283-17 4 7  State GAs Top$. Pis lv mess. ((  
·2717-74(16  )~·---''"  .  ..tl~ 2 room efficiency utilities paid  $7 a  (415)597-2319  CUT INTERRUPTIONS! GET THE  MARGE  
day 2880955  #$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#  WORD OUT! Hotlines for faculty,  
MUSICIANS NEEDED :  NEED 4 BYU GA's HEATHER 284­ student groups, teams, event­ Physician and Attorney wish to  
guitar players esp.!  2 bedroom,clean,quite,appliances  NEED 2 PENN. ST. GA's  4369  sponsors only $10 month. Callers  provide loving home for your child  
For local "Kids for Saving the Earth"  and utilities included $335 month  271-0742 lv message w/price  hear latest info. Local exchange.  filled with hugs, kisses, laughter.  
camping trips. Need "crazy" leaders  287-2189  #  I'LL DO ANYTHING! for 1 or 2 GAs  Remote updating. Limited number  Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy  
for children's songs around  NEED 10 PENN ST GAs  to B.C. Lisa 284-5080.  available. Call277-8260, Ext. 22.  Collect (708) 655-3124.  
campfires.  B & B -MINUTES FROM ND.  BIG TIME CALL PAT x2071  
Early evenings, weekends.  616­ Need 2 GA's for BC ASAP  WHAT MAKES YOU SO SPECIAL?  ADOPTION -Loving couple wish to  
Call Bill Staunton 272-4850  663-8308 -NILES  WILL PAY $125  Call Derek 283-4522  Every year, $6 billion in college aid  open our hearts & home to your  
evenings. Don't delay.  FOR 2 TX TO PENN ST. DALLAS  goes unclaimed. You qualify for  baby. Call Nancy collect (317)824­ 
Do you run to stay in shape, get  FOR SALE  ALUM WANTS TO ASK HIS FIANCE THE BIG QUESTION  HELP! 92 GRAD DESPERATELY NEEDS 2 PENN ST GAs PLEASE  some of it. For $39.95, I guarantee to find at least 25 potential aid  8312.  
outside. and/or put off studying?  UNDER THE DOME! CALL 1-800­ CALL JENNY  sources based on your  Loving young couple want to adopt  
If you would like to run regularly w/  I have a roundtrip ticket from  745-5402 DURING DAY HOURS.  215-265-7346.  qualifications. Group discounts.  baby. Mom a teacher will stay home  
a group, meet today @ 5:15, Admn  O'Hare to LAX and 3 NO/USC GA's  Call277-8260, Ext. 23.  full time. Call Laura/Brian collect  
Bldg front steps-Anyone welcome  for sale. Call John 271-2822.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$De  708-482-7576 or 312-220-3194  
non-competetive-run at your own  sperately Need 2 BC GA's  I NEED 2 B.C. GA'S  Don't forget to  
pace-info: call Greg@ 4115  FOR SALE:  JOSH X4107 leave message  call Tom 288-1027  turn in your  11!!!11111!!  
ILOST & FOUND I  TREK 300 BIKE, $225 OBO. ALL SHIMANO COMPONENTS. EXCELLENT CONDITION. 271­ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ THE 'RENTS ARE COMING!  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  LONDON PROGRAM  Hobbes is still not 21 , too bad some day you'll drink with us  
0370.  And they need penn tix! Please call  APPLICATION  
Found: gold colored bracelet found  Ann x4508  You have what I want  11!!111111!  
in front of Alumni. Call Dave at 239­ For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call  You have what I want  MOLLY CROSBY (aka: George,  
7018 to claim.  Rita Delivery on Campus  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Croz, MC, Hammer) Is 20! Give her  Doctor and teacher will make  
234-6524  and I am willing to pay tor it  a b-day pinch!  dreams for your baby come true.  
FOUND: A SMALL COMPUTER  yes, I will pay for it !1!!1!11!!11!!!1!  Full-time parenting. Best of the city;  
NEAR STEPS ON JUNIPER GOING TO FLANNER. CALL &  TICKETS  NEED B.C. TICKETS!!!  PLEASE GIVE IT TO ME  ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security,  summers by the beach. Your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace  
IDENTIFY. 239-7957 OR  GREAT MONEY ...  I desperately need it NOW!!  excellent education and wonderful  in winter, and by ocean waves in  
272-1112 EVENINGS.  future tor your baby. Confidential  summer. Art, music, the best  
NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX  CALL ANGELA  Your right, I NEED GAs  and legal. Expenses paid. Call  education, endless love. Call  
SEIKOWATCH  CALL JOE OR JAY X1760  Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805)  Franny or Stephen collect. (212)  
ROMAN NUMERALS  283-2729  KYLIE  287-9118  520-5978 or attorney (818) 241­ 369-2597.  
BLACK BAND  I NEED ND FOOTBALL  5535.  
LOST AT BYU GAME  TICKETS.272-6306  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  HEY ND COPS NICE TRY ON  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE  LYONS WHODUNIT??  OCT.15 DON'T YOU KNOW YOU  
REWARD  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Got $$$  Who killed Sr. Kathleen & how?  CAN'T CATCH THE SOUTH QUAD  
#2933  PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston  NEED 2 PENN ST.  Need 4 PENN ST GAs  Suspects:  STREAKERS  
College GAs or student tix. Call Jill  GA'S PAUL X1450  Call Ben at x3797  1 Joleen "Lynch 'em" Littig  
WANTED  @ x4758 or x4721. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$  I NEED PSU GA'S  MOTIVE: Sr. caught her sneaking a guy out her basement window  Happy Belated B'day, HITZ!! Love-Guess Who?  
REALLY NEED 2 PENN STATE  MEGAN4222  after parietals.  
ALASKA SUMMER  NEED PENN STATE TIX-call Sam  GA'S!!!I  ALIBI: Concocting experiments in  Congrats MORNAY SAUCE!  
EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn  x4842  CALL DOUG AT 273-1758  ******BYU'PENN STATE'BC**""  chem lab.  Tourney Win #2  
$5000+/month. Free transportation!  FOR SALE: 2 stud tix books for all  2 "Savage" Sarah Fitzpatrick  Yeah bitch!  
Room & Board! Over 8000  Need One Ticket For Boston  FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  remaining games. Will sell all  M: lives on same floor as Sr ...  (Ann, Kelly, & Dan are stellar)  
openings. No experience  College!!! Call273-29671!!  2-3 tix for any game. Call (317)  together or each game.  enough said!  
necessary. Male or Female. For  743-2385 between 5-6PM Wkdays.  X3346 Lee or Levell  A: I'll tell you where she wasn't ...  Hey crab cakes, I'm glad you're  
employment program call Student  In Need of  at the bars.  back. I can't say the same for the  
Employment Services at 1-206-545­ I need 1 Penn State ticket, student  Need 6 BC GA's Call Scott x1157  3 Angie "Fearsome" Pearson  tax dog.  
4155 ext. A5584.  or G.A. Becky 233-4925  M: She saw Rick Mirer & Sr. K  
FOR SALE:  dancing together at Heartland.  
Looking for a top fraternity, sorority,  BC  I need one GA for BC and OJ.d  2 Tix for ND vs. NAVY  A: peeping in Rick Mirer's window.  ARE YOU DRIVING FROM  
or student organization that would  tickets  student ticket or GA for Penn State.  Call Michelle x4416  4 Robin "The Hood" Stumpf  CHICAGO TO CHAMPAIGN THIS  
like to earn $500-$1500 for a one  Will Pay!! I  Bill #2002  M: Wanted Sr. K's parking spot.  SATURDAY? TAKE ME WITH YOU  
week on-campus marketing project.  GOOD $ FOR PENN ST TIX  A: Where else? Dan's at Lafayette.  AND I WILL BE ETERNALLY  
Must be organized and hard  (as many as humanly possible)  I need 3 BC GAs. Even 1 or 2  NICKX4284  5 Ann "The Vengeful" Verkamp  GRATEFUL! CALL ANNA 284-5440  
working. Call (800)592-2121  call Aileen X4292  would be GREAT!  Call Jen x3848  M: reprimanded one too many times  
x308.  by Sr. K for talking in the halls after  
Need Penn St. Ga's -big $$$  For sale  I NEED  quiet hours.  
Arthur Victor Painting Inc. is looking  Lisa 288-5196  2 Navy GA's  ONE B.C. STUDENT TICKET  A: planning f-ball strategies w/ Ed at  SELLING BC STUDENT TICKET!  
for Branch Managers tor summer  617-491-8433  CALL JEN -273-2527  Marion St.  CALL ANNA 284-5440  
'93. Experience helpful but not  6 "Menacing" Marta Roemer  
necessary; complete training and  ****'''NEED PSU TIX********  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  HELP MEl  I desperately need BC  M: Sr. K gave her smallest RA  
field support. High income potential.  Call Laurie x2998  HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE  Student or GA tickets!  room.  FRIENDS DON'T LET FRIENDS  
800-775-4745  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  AT 618-439-3338.  Call Ellen x4294  A: Campaigning for Uncle Tim.  DRINK AND DIAL!  

BASEBALLWALES CONFERENCE American League

Patrick Division w L T Pts GF GA w L T Pet PF PA Home Away AFC NFC Dlv 
BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Declined to exercise the contract option on Mike
Pittsburgh 7 0 2 16 49 29 Miami 6 1 0 .857 188 125 3-1-0 3-0-0 4-1-0 2-0-0 2-1-0 Flanagan, pitcher. 
NY Rangers 7 2 1 15 41 28 Buffalo 4 2 0 .667 166 102 2-1-0 2-1-0 2-2-0 2-0-0 2-1-0 MINNESOTA TWINS-Claimed Mike
NY Islanders 5 3 1 11 36 32 lndnplis 4 3 0 .571 99 132 2-2-0 2-1-0 3-3-0 1-0-0 2-1-0 Maksudian, catcher, off waivers from OF 10/24192
New Jersey 5 4 0 10 32 33 NY Jets 1 5 0 .167 84 123 1-1-0 0-4-0 1-2-0 0-3-0 1-1-0 PTS. PVS. 
Toronto.

Philadelphia 3 6 2 8 42 49 NewEnglaad 0 7 0 .000 80 176 0-4-0 0-3-0 0-5-0 0-2-0 0-3-0 1 Miami(32) 1,517 1TEXAS RANGERS-Named Kevin
Washington 3 5 0 6 26 29 Central Adame Division Houston 5 2 0 .714 179 120 3-1-0 2-1-0 5-2-0 0-0-0 2·1·0 Kennedy manager and signed him to a two­2 Wash. (29) 7-0-0 1,516 
year contract. 

Boston 6 1 1 13 41 26 Pttsburgh 5 2 0 .714 138 77 2-0-0 3-2-0 5-1-0 0-1-0 2-1-0 TORONTO BLUE JAYS--Announced they 3 Michigan 6-0-1 1,402 3
Montreal 5 3 2 12 47 38 Cleveland 4 3 0 .571 107 101 2-2-0 2-1-0 3-3-0 1-0-0 1-0-0 Buffalo 5 3 0 10 40 30 Cincnnati 2 5 0 .286 109 174 1-2-0 1-3-0 2-3-0 0-2-0 0-3-0 will not offer salary arbitration to Dave Win­4 Alabama (1) 8-0-0 1,372 4field and Candy Maldonado, outfielders. De­
Quebec 4 3 1 9 38 30 West Denver 5 3 0 .625 121 154 4-0-0 1-3-0 5-1-0 0-2-0 3-1-0 clined to exercise the contract options on S TexasA&M 7-0-0 1,247 5
Hartford 3 6 0 6 26 36 Ottawa 1 7 0 2 18 40 Kan. City 4 4 0 .500 153 128 3-1-0 1-3-0 3-3-0 1-1-0 3-1-0 
Dave Stieb and Mark Eichhorn, pitchers. CAMPBELL CONFERENCE San Diego 3 4 0 .429 104 136 2-2-0 1-2-0 3-4-0 0-0-0 2-2-0 National League 6 FloridaSt. 6-1-0 1,245 6 Norris Division LA Raidrs 3 5 0 .375 122 137 2-2-0 1-3-0 2-4-0 1-1-0 1-2-0 
NEW YORK METS-Named Brad Sloan, national crosschecker; Jim Miller, scouting 7 Georgia 7-1-0 1,144 7
Seattle 1 7 0 .125 53 158 0-3-0 1-4-0 1-5-0 0-2-0 0-3-0 supervisor for Northern California; and Markw L T Pts GF GA 
Minnesota 5 3 1 11 35 33 NATIONAL CONFERENCE Colorado 6-0-1 1,046 9
8

Giegler, scouting supervisor for Indiana.
Toronto 5 3 1 11 35 29 East Kentucky, Michigan and Ohio. 
Detroit 5 4 0 10 37 37 w L T Pet PF PA Home Away AFC NFC Dlv 8 Nebraska 5-1-0 1,046 8 
BASKETBALL

Tampa Bay 4 4 9 32 28 Dallas 6 1 0 .857 167 112 4-0-0 2-1-0 3-0-0 3-1-0 3-1-0 Washingtn 5 2 0 .714 136 105 4-0-0 1-2-0 1-0-0 4-2-0 1-2-0 National Basketball Association 10 Notre Dame 5-1-1 981 10
Chicago 3 5 7 33 32 Phila 5 2 0 .714 143 77 4-0-0 1-2-0 1-1-0 4-1-0 3-1-0 NBA-Fined Bill Laimbeer of the Detroit
St. Louis 2 6 5 27 41 11 Boston College 6-0-1 929 11
Pistons $7,500 for a flagrant foul against
Smythe Division NY Giants 3 4 0 .429 150 161 2-2-0 1-2-0 1-1-0 2-3-0 1-1-0 Calgary 6 3 0 12 36 24 Phoenix 1 6 0 .143 113 177 1-2-0 0-4-0 0-0-0 1-6-0 1-4-0 12 Syracuse 6-1-0 886 12
David Wood of San Antonio in a preseason game on Oct. 22. 
Los Angeles 5 3 1 11 37 34 Central HOUSTON ROCKETS-Suspended Ver­13 Southern Cal 4-1-1 795 15Vancouver 4 3 1 9 33 26 Minnesota 5 2 0 .714 173 127 3-1-0 2·1·0 1-0-0 4-2-0 4-1-0 non Maxwell, guard, for one game for viola­Winnipeg 3 6 0 6 31 40 Chicago 4 3 0 .571 169 155 4-1-0 0-2-0 0-0-0 4-3-0 3-1-0 
14 PennS!. 6-2-0 727 14
tion of team rules.

Edmonton 8 1 3 24 50 Tampa Bay 3 4 0 .429 136 152 2-2-0 1-2-0 0-1-0 3-3-0 2-3-0 MILWAUKEE BUCKS-Signed Jawann
San Jose 7 0 2 21 43 Detroit 2 5 0 .286 144 135 1-2-0 1-3-0 0-0-0 2-5-0 2-3-0 15 Stanford 6-2-0 642 16
Oldham. center, to a one-year contract.
Saturday's Games Green Bay 2 5 0 .286 90 151 2-1-0 0-4-0 2-1-0 0-4·0 0-3-0 Waived Joe Rhett and Michael Smith, for­16 Tennessee 5·2·0 580 17
New York Islanders 4, Hartford 2 West Tampa Bay 3, Quebec 2 San Fran 6 1 0 .857 216 125 2-1·0 4·0·0 2·1-0 4-0-0 3-0-0 
wards; Melvin Robinson, center; and Stphen Thompson and Kevin Williams. guards. 17 Arizona 4-2-1 547 21 Pittsburgh 4, New Jersey 3 NewOrlns 5 2 0 .714 117 82 2·1-0 3·1·0 0-0-0 5-2-0 2-1·0 Global Basketball Association
New York Rangers 3, Onawa 2. OT LA Rams 3 4 0 .429 121 133 3-0-0 0-4·0 2·2·0 1·2-0 0-2-0 18 Kansas 6-1-0 513 22
GSA-Announced the Cedar Rapids fran­Montreal?, Philadelphia 6 Atlanta 2 5 0 .286 133 179 2·1·0 0-4-0 1·1·0 1·4·0 0·2·0 chise has named their franchise the Sharp­
Toronto 5, San Jose 1 Sunday's Games Sunday, Nov. 1 19 Washington St. 6-1-0 432 13 
shooters.

Los Angeles 5, Minnesota 5, tie Chicago 30, Green Bay 10 Green Bay at Detroit, 1 p.m. 
4-2-0 428 20

Detroit 6, St. Louis 1 Houston 26, Cincinnati 10 Houston at Pittsburgh, 1 p.m. FAYETIEVILLE FLYEAS-Signed Vada 20 Florida 
Martin and Avie Lester. forwards. and Derick
Sunday's Games Detroit 38, Tampa Bay 7 Los Angeles Rams at Atlanta. 1 p.m. 21 N. Carolina St. 6-2-1 350 23
Polk, center.

Boston 5, Vancouver 3 Philadelphia 7, Phoenix 3 Miami at New York Jets, 1 p.m. 
Calgary 4, Edmonton 0 New York Giants 23, Seattle 10 New England at Buffalo, 1 p.m. LOUISVILLE SHOOTERS--Signed Craig 22 N. Carolina 6-2·0 210 Amos, forward, and Andre Tate, guard. 
Chicago 8, Detroit 2 Washington 15, Minnesota 13 Tampa Bay at New Orleans. 1 p.m. 
SOCCER

Monday's Games San Diego 24, Denver 21 Cleveland at Cincinnati, 4 p.m. 23 Virginia 6-2·0 206 24 
National Professional Soccer League
Late Games Not Included Cleveland 19, New England 17 Indianapolis at San Diego, 4 p.m. 
CHICAGO POWER-Signed Mirko 24-Mississippi St. 5-2·0 191 25
New York Rangers 8, Philadelphia 4 Dallas 28, Los Angeles Raiders 13 Philadelphia at Dallas, 4 p.m. 
Castillo, forward. and Ed Puskarich. de­
Washington at Winnipeg, (n) Indianapolis 31, Miami 20 San Francisco at Phoenix. 4 p.m. 25 Texas 4-2·0 90
fender, for the 1992-93 season.
San Jose at St. Louis, (n) Pittsburgh 27, Kansas City 3 New York Giants at Washington, 8 p.m. 
( ) =First-place votes AP

Tuesday's Games Monday's Game Monday, Nov. 2 Pittsburgh at Ottawa, 7:40p.m. Buffalo at New York Jets, 9 p.m. Minnesota at Chicago, g p.m. NBATampa Bay at Quebec, 7:40p.m. Los Angeles at New York Islanders, 7:40 Tuesday's Games
Sunday's Games 

p.m. Utah at New York, 7:30p.m. 
Utah 1 17, Charlotte 1 00 

Wednesday's Games ·----------------------~--------------· Indiana at Charlotte, 7:30p.m. 
Then~·s one exam even the businesses lost more than $60 termg drug tests. Failing the Detroit 105, Dallas 92 New Jersey at Hartford. 7:40p.m. best of colleges can't prepare bilbon to drugs. test means you \liOn' t be Phoenix 1 16, Milwaukee 102 Atlanta at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. Buffalo at Toronto, 7:40p.m. you for. So this year. most of the considered for employment. Phoenix at Miami, 7:30p.m. 
Sacramento 110, Seattle 108 
Tampa Bay at Montreal, 7:40p.m. Last year alone, Americ~'s Fortune 500 "';u be adnurus And that's a matter of fact Philadelphia vs. Boston at Providence, R.I., 
Monday's Games San Jose at Detroit, 7:40 p.m. 7:30p.m.
Late Game Not Included 

Calgary at Winnipeg, 8:40 p.m. WE'RE PUTTING DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS. Golden State at Minnesota, 8 p.m. 
New Jersey 120, Cleveland 116, OT 
Minnesota at Edmonton. 9:40 p.m. Parlntrshipfora Drug·Frtr Amrnru Sacramento vs. LA Lakers at St. Louis, 8:30 
Minnesota 114, Washington 105 Washington at Vancouver, 10:40 p.m. p.m.
Denver at Portland. (n) Dallas vs. Houston at Mexrco City, 9:30p.m. 


HERE IS YOUR CHANCE TO MEET COACH JOHN MACLEOD AND THE ENTIRE IRISH MEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM IN PERSON 



WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28 9:00 p.m. THEODORE'S IN LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
Free food and beverage courtesy of General Foods and Coca-Cola 
Door prizes will be awarded 

~------~-----~--­
Tuesday, October 27, 1992 

Young Colts are for real 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) _ Ted Marchibroda doesn't confuse progress with momentum. 
The Indianapolis Colts are vis­ibly better than they were last year but not enough for their coach to see a trend. 
"I would like to say that would be the answer, but I think the kind of football team we have doesn't allow me to say that," Marchibroda said Monday. 
Indianapolis, which won only one game last year, notched its fourth victory on Sunday with a 31-20 surprise of previously 
unbeaten Miami. The game was a lot closer than the score, though. 
The Dolphins, forced into four earlier turnovers by the Colts, still appeared headed for a winning touchdown in the closing seconds before rookie Steve Emtman snatched a pass by Dan Marino and returned it 90 yards for a TD on the final play of the game. 
It was the Colts' first victory over a team with a winning record. 

IN'DIIII fOOD IDYICII UM'D811 Of NO&DAM& 
Pizza DeUvered lb Your Room/ 
The Observer page 17 
Bills' heroics prevent O'Brien comeback 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -A Monday night against the New York Jets. How could the Buffalo Bills miss? 
They didn't, but just barely, as Thurman Thomas caught a 12­yard touchdown pass from Jim Kelly with 51 seconds remaining, lifting the Bills past their AFC East patsy, 24-20. Buffalo marched 75 yards in seven plays, using 59 seconds to earn its 1Oth straight victory over the Jets. 
The late heroics spoiled a superb comeback by the Jets (1-6). Ken O'Brien, the man Jets fans love to hate, guided New York 65 yards on a 77­yard drive for a 20-17 lead, with Brad Baxter scoring from the 1 with 1:50 remaining. 
Browning Nagle hurt his shoulder early in New York's TD drive when hit by Bruce Smith. O'Brien, a 7 1/2-year starter who lost his job to Nagle this year, came in and took them from their 35 to the score. 
O'Brien found Rob Moore for 9 yards, Blair Thomas ran for 6 and O'Brien's 45-yard rainbow was dropped in the end zone by Rob Moore, but James Williams was called for interference. 
Baxter scored on the next play, leaving more than enough time for the two-time defending AFC champions. 
The Bills (5-2) got a 34-yard pass to Don Beebe to the Jets' 
49. Beebe also caught a 19­yarder on third down to the 30. 
Thomas ran for 18 yards, then Kelly found the versatile running back between two defenders in the end zone. 
The Bills broke a two-game slide in which they scored only 
_ 13 points with a muddled no­huddle attack. The Jets continued their disastrous year, although they played their best game against their nemesis. A mini-brawl involving Smith and Nagle erupted on New York's second possession. 
Nagle, scrambling toward the sideline, completed a pass to Ken Whisenhunt and was hit by Smith. Nagle tried to get up, but Smith wouldn't move. So Nagle pushed Smith, who then appeared to fall back on top of the quarterback. 

Jets tackle Irv Eatman then dived on Smith, drawing a 15­yard unsportsmanlike conduct penalty. 
New York led 3-0 on Cary Blanchard's first-quarter 42­yard field goal. But the Bills quickly snatched the lead in the second quarter. 
Ken Davis' 2-yard touchdown dive came one play after Thomas gained 20 yards on a sweep. The Bills got in position on a 37-yard pass to Andre Reed on third-and-15. 
Blanchard hit a 40-yarder to make it 7-6, but Nate Odomes' interception set up Buffalo's quick drive at the end of the half for a 14-6 edge. 
The Bills looked as sharp as ever during the march, which took 43 seconds to go 62 yards. Kelly hit Beebe, fresh off the injury list, on passes of 15 and 18 yards and Thomas ran for 
13. Davis scored with 12 seconds remaining in the half. 
New York's offense, dormant a lot longer than Buffalo's, woke up in the third quarter. The Jets got their first touchdown in seven quarters and only their third on the ground all season on Pat Chaf­fey's 1-yard run after they drove 84 yards in 10 plays. 
That made it 14-13. But the Bills responded with Steve Christie's 33-yard field goal. 
Then each team reverted to recent error-prone ways. 
Reed fumbled when slammed by Mike Brim and Mo Lewis recovered and ran 25 yards to the Buffalo 41 early in the fourth quarter. On fourth-and­4, Nagle threw a short pass to Whisenhunt that did not connect, but Mark Kelso was called for interference, a silly mistake because the play would not have gained a first down. 
On the next play, though, Henry Jones picked off Nagle's pass and returned it to the Jets' 
49. The Bills got nowhere, then stopped the Jets. 
Gambling with just over seven minutes left, New York faked a punt, with Chaffey running over right guard for 29 yards. That got the Jets to the Bills' 43, but they turned the ball over on downs. 
Dolphins express concern about running game 
MIAMI (AP) -The Miami Dolphins' record is no longer perfect, and their running game again is quite ordinary. 
Now 6-1 following a 31-20 loss Sunday to Indianapolis, the Dolphins in the past five games have averaged just 80 yards rushing, a figure even worse than last year, when their ground attack ranked 25th in the NFL. 
"We haven't done anything since the first two games," running back Mark Higgs said Monday. Like most ball-carri­ers, Higgs wishes his team would call more running plays. 
"It's something we have to try to stick with to try to make it work," he said. "We tend to get away from it a little early because we have one or two bad plays." 
An abundance of weapons ­including two newcomers, tight end Keith Jackson and two-time 1,000-yard rusher Bobby Humphrey -suggests Miami should be able to mount a bal­anced attack. 
But despite leading Indi­anapolis much of the way Sun­day, the Dolphins had 46 pass 
For

1811 South Bend Ave. 
at Campus Shoppes Shopping Center Free Trick or Treat Bags! (Just North of Fronk's Red Hots) Pumpkin Coloring Contest 271-7674 
•Enter by Ocl30lo win a '25 Mon.-Fri. RlJS Gift Certificate! 
----------~------­

plays and a season-low 20 rushes. That ratio is reminis­cent of recent seasons, when the lack of a running threat and failure to make the playoffs went hand in hand. 
Miami's offensive linemen also want to run more. 
"We scream about that every week," guard Keith Sims said. "We're a better team when we have better balance." 
"We didn't run with it as well as we would have liked to Sun­day," coach Don Shula said. 
• 
page 18 
The Observer Tuesday, October 27, 1992 
-. 



The Observer/ Macy Huenkel The Observer/ Kyle Kusek 
Rick Mirer completed 12 of 15 passes for 151 yards and two touchdowns on Saturday. Ray Griggs sprints toward the end zone en route to a 54-yard touchdown. 
'I"' 
• 


Cornerback Tom Carter picks off a pass in the fourth quarter. Reggie Brooks breaks a tackle. The Irish tailback had 112 yards on 15 carries. 
-----~---------------------~-----~~ 
Tuesday, October 27, 1992 The Observer page 19 
PAID ADVERTISMENT 
TASK FORCE ON CULTURAL DIVERSITY REPORT ON RECOMMENDED ACTIONS 
October 16, 1992 
Need-based financial aid can be made 
available to R.O.T.C. students from the 
office of financial aid to make up the 
difference between scholarships received 
and total educational cost, where 
applicable. 
In the past, funds have been set aside to attain specific faculty hiring goals. To recruit a more culturally diverse faculty, the provost finds special funding acceptable as a concept. The question is the degree to which it can be accomplished by setting aside enough funds to make a difference at a time when there are significant financial constraints. Within this context, an effort will be made to set aside position-s in order to increase the number of minority faculty. 
Undergraduate Academic Support Services 
In the area of undergraduate academic 
support services, the provost is aware of the 
success achieved in the Minority 
Engineering Program and programs of 
academic support beyond the Freshman 
Year of Studies in the College of 
Engineering. He will study possible ways in 
which this program might be replicated in 
other academic are;s. To achieve this, the 
provost will consult with the dean of the 
Freshman Year of Studies and with the 
deans of the colleges to see what support 
can be provided for minority students 
beyond the freshman year and how the 
matter of enhanced academic support can 
be provided under diverse circumstances. 
The question of the curriculum in . engineering is a longstanding one that is 
not exclusively related to minority students. 
Efforts will be made to see how people with 
limited math and science backgrounds can 
be given more time to fulfill requirements. 
The directors of overseas programs will be 
asked to study ways of effectively recruiting 
minority students for overseas programs. 
Undergraduate Support Services: Residentiality and Student Affairs 
Several recommended actions can be implemented immediately by the Office of Student Affairs in the area of residentiality.There should be balanced distribution of minority students throughout the campus. The vice president for student affairs will see that more accurate information concerning the results of the room assignment process is gathered to study whether more fine tuning of the current procedure is necessary. Minority students are manually given room assignments to assure diversity in freshman room assignments. A review of the room assignment process will take place every three years to make sure the system is working. 
A three year grant fi:om the Lilly Endowment will enable the Office of Student Affairs to develop programs that will assist in creating an environment in the residence halls that promotes and upholds cultural diversity values. There is discussion students early in their careers at Notre D"ame to consider applying for positions on the staffs of the residence halls. The vice president for student affairs will look into the grade point average clearance criterion currently in place. 
In matters affecting cultural diversity programming within the Division of Student Affairs and the Office of Minority Student Affairs, the current concern is securing hard money once the Lilly Endowment grant expires. It is too early to know how effective the utilization of these funds will be. Needs in this area will be presented to the appropriate committee of the Colloquy. 
A person has been designated in the Office of Student Affairs to assume responsibility for staged programming using the Lilly Endowment grant funds. Educational programming for rectors, hall staff and department heads within Student Affairs has already begun for the 1992-93 academic year, as well as some support for programming offered by the Office of Minority Student Affairs and the Office of Student Activities. 
Undergraduate Support Services: The University Counseling Center and Campus Ministry 
In addition to one staff psychologist, the University Counseling Center has three trainees this year of minority background. The Counseling Center is continuing to search for additional permanent staff of minority background. Lilly Endowment grant funding will be available for workshops to educate all counselors on the needs and cultures of all students. 
In the area of campus ministry, requests for space use should be considered on an ad hoc basis. There is no need for special worship space on campus for students of other faith traditions. The Task Force on Evangelization, Pastoral Ministry and Social Values thought through this matter carefully and felt many problems in terms of use could be avoided if requests were handled as suggested. 
The Graduate Program: Recruitment, Financial Aid and Support Services 

In the areas of recruitment, financial aid and support services for graduate students, a complete report and thorough strategic initiative for recruiting underrepresented graduate students at Notre Dame has been prepared by the assistant dean for graduate admissions. Action on the initiative is already underway as of September 1 7, 1992 with new programs for graduate admissions marketing, the initiation of a national recruitment campaign, programs to involve the Alumni Association and an automated communication program to identify minority students. 
University Affirmative Action Committees 

faculty and staff, securing comparable demographic data should be pursued as a helpful way of assisting the process. 
Proper accountabilities are not yet in place with regard to the staff, since concerns at the officer level do not work their way down effectively. A report will be prepared for each vice president each year stating the number of minorities by each category, the number of minorities referred for interviews, and other matters. These reports can form the basis for an annual discussion of staff affirmative action by responsible officers. 
A workshop on cultural diversity will be offered for all staff department heads with 
Donna Foster of C S Associates. 
The director of human resources will establish community contacts to promote minority hiring in a more aggressive way. At the present time, the University handles 30,000 employment inquiries each year. 
Procedures for Handling Complaints Concerning Cultural Diversity 
With regard to the identification of responsibility within the University for cultural diversity issues, there is a discriminatory harassment policy in the Faculty Handbook. The administration of 
the process will be clarified and made more prominent in future editions. An ombudsperson will be designated in the academic area to assist in the process. 
The director of human resources will study whether the current procedure for handling complaints should be modified. At present, there are ombudspersons physically locatedin the areas of the library and food service. People cannot be set up as human resources representatives outside the accountability structure. 
The University Committee on Cultural Diversity 
Finally, Father Malloy has established a University Committee on Cultural Diversity. This committee will attend to cultural diversity matters on a continuing basis. It will give further attention to the recommended actions of the Task Force and to matters studied and discussed by the members of that group. The committee will meet on a monthly basis, and will be in contact with the different University constituencies. 
The membership of the Committee will include representatives fi:om the offices of the president, the provost, the vice president for student affairs and the vice president for business affairs. There will be one representative fi:om Student Government and at least three additional appointed members. The Committee will be constituted and begin its work during the current academic semester. 
Respectfully submitted, 
Dr. Roland B. Smith, Jr. 
The Task Force on Cultural Diversity which Father Edward A. Malloy, C.SC., president, appointed in April, 1991, completed its work on May 1, 1992. The Final Report was given to Father Malloy and was published in its entirety in The Observer. The officers have studied and discussed the Final Report. A transitional recommendation in the report called for the appointment of an implementation committee to develop a plan based on the recommended actions contained in the Final Report. This report is an initial response in the process of developing that plan. It is based on conversations with officers and other administrators responsible for areas in the life of the University covered by the Task Force's recommendations. 
Father Malloy has decided to establish a permanent University Committee on Cultural Diversity, which will be described at the end of this report. This is an important development within the context of the efforts of Father Malloy's administration to achieve cultural diversity goals at Notre Dame. While the recommended actions of the Final Report of the Task Force on Cultural Diversity will form the basis for the work of the committee, certain commitments can be made at this time as a result of the work referred to above. 
It is important to begin with a restatement 
of the Task Force's definition of the term 
'cultural diversity.' 
Definition of 'Cultural Diversity' 
Cultural Diversity, as a stated goal of the 
University of Notre Dame, means that the 
University is convinced that it wiU most 
effectively carry out its mission of Catholic 
higher education in an atmosphere where the 
acuity, students, and staff of the institution are drawn from the fuU range of ethnic and cultural traditions represented within our society. Cultural Diversity is not simply a thing to be identified or a set of numbers tabulating the underrepresented ethnic or racial groups present at the University. It is that and much more. It is a way of thinking, seeing and behaving which demonstrates an understanding and respect for aU ethnic and cultural traditions. Cultural Diversity signifies the University's commitment to an atmosphere of hospitality and dialogue where these various traditions can together contribute to a sharing of perspectives in the pursuit of truth. It is the recognition of the contributions-both individual and collective­of those ethnic or racial groups which have been legislatively and sociaUy devalued for much of this nation's history. It is the recognition and celebration of the cultural differences within our university community. 
Curriculum and Recruitment of a More Culturally Diverse Undergraduate Student Body and Faculty 
With regard to curriculum, the provost will 
ask each department to review its specific course offerings, including the Freshman courses, with regard to their cultural diversity content. An associate provost will provide follow up in this matter, and keep the other recommendations concerning curriculum in mind. 
There is agreement on the part of everyone interviewed on the importance of the work in admissions to recruit a more diverse student body. Not only will current efforts continue, but there will be a continuing emphasis on providing more adequate levels offunding to meet minority financial need. 
as to whether such programs should begin in some halls first or in all halls simultaneously. Criteria to evaluate the effectiveness of such programming will be built into the programming itself over the next three years. 
Every candidate for rector was interviewed with cultural diversity considerations in mind, since these concerns were raised by the senior staff in each interview. More can and will be done to encourage minority Two University committees review affirmative action issues, the Academic Affirmative Action Committee and the Staff Affirmative Action Committee. 
The provost will meet twice each year with the chair of the Academic Affirmative Action Committee to discuss and promote goals developed by the Committee. The director of human resources will assist this committee when asked to do so. However, since reporting formats are different for 
Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. Co-Chairs, Task Force on Cultural Diversity 
.. 





ThE CoMeDy OfErRoRs 

Performed by The National Shakespeare Company 
Monday & Tuesday November 2 & 3 Washington Hall 8:10pm Student Tickets $7 
Sponsored by The Student Activities Office and Student Union Board Tickets available at the Lafortune Information Desk 239-8128 

page 20 

Tour 
continued from page 24 
California, where it trounced the University of San Diego (13­9). 15-10, 15-2, 16-14. Fiebelkorn led Notre Dame with 11 kills, while senior captain Alicia Turner added 9 kills and 16 digs. 
The tour's path then crossed the Pacific for a weekend dou­bleheader with perennial pow­erhouse Hawaii. Notre Dame was undaunted, however, and drubbed the Rainbow Wahine 16-14, 15-11, 15-8, in the first match. Peters and Marilyn Cragin pounded 20 kills apiece, while Fiebelkorn added 19 and setter Janelle Karlan had 60 assists. The team was efficient 

Soccer 
continued from page 24 
All four of the games scores 
came in the second half. For­
ward Courtney Liney took a 
cross from Ryanne Bumps and 
headed SMU to a one-point ad­
vantage. Minutes later the lead 
was increased when defender 
Kellie Fister victimized Irish 
goaltender Michelle Lodyga for 
the first of her two goals. 
Freshman Michelle McCarthy hit on the second of Notre Dame's shots on a breakaway goal after receiving a pass from fellow freshman Rosella Guer­rero. 
Fister scored near the game's end to complete the two-point win. 
The game was the first Notre Dame played on turf all season, a fact which could have affected their performance more than the team admitted. 
"Playing on turf could have been a factor," commented Jarc. "But the main reason we lost was that they came out ag­gressive and put a lot of pres­sure on us. All the things we were supposed to do." 
The next three games show­cased Notre Dame doing the things they were supposed to. 
Texas Christian was the first team to fall, dropping a 4-0 de­cision. Junior forward Alison Lester and McCarthy knotted two goals apiece and Kim Gold earned the shutout in goal. 
LaSalle fell by the same score three days later, and became the fourth Midwestern Colle­giate Conference team to bow at the cleats of the Irish. South Bend native Brenda Gorski started the scoring on a pass from sweeper Ashley Scharff. Goals followed from Tiffany Thompson and a pair from freshman Julie Vogal. 
Providence College was the third straight win for Notre Dame after a physical game ended in a 2-0 win. 
McCarthy took a pass from defender Jill Matesic ten min-throughout the match, rolling up a .383 attack percentage. 
"We were solid all around," Brown said of her team's per­formance. "In contrast to the Cal State-Northridge match, we probably had our best match of the year in this one. percentages, individually and as a team, were outstanding." 
Hawaii returned the favor in the tour's last match, however, winning 15-10, 15-10, 18-16. Peters led the Irish with 15 kills and 16 digs in a losing effort. Brown was not happy to take the loss, but she was not com­pletely disappointed with her team's effort. 
"Hawaii definitely played a much better match than they did the first night," the coach said. "We hung tough in the third game. Had we won that one, who knows what would have happened?" 
utes before the halfway point giving Notre Dame a one point advantage going into the in­termission. 
Providence goalkeeper Jen­nifer Mead was the main rea­son the final home game for Notre Dame didn't end in a blowout. The junior made sev­eral miraculous saves, keeping the Irish at bay for the most of the game. Lodyga also played well earning her 34th career shutout. 
"The difference in the game was their keeper," said Irish coach Chris Petrucelli. "It was a very physical game and I think we responded to that." 
One player who stood out as a force for the Irish was Matesic. Along with her first half assist, the sophomore defender ha­rassed the Friar's attackers and added support on the midfield. 
"It was good to see Jill play well," said Petrucelli. "She has been struggling a bit lately, but she came out focused and it showed." 
The final games of the season place the Irish at Wright State and Xavier, two must win games if Notre Dame is to see post-season action. 
"All we can do is keep win­ning and hope that we get se­lected" added Jarc. "It's out of our hands." 
Come and help us celebrate 
DIWALI 
A night with traditional Indian food, song, and dance Presented by the India Association of Notre Dame Saturday, October 31 l.U.S.B. Cafetreia Dinner: 6:30p.m. Cultural Program: 8:00p.m. Tickets: $9.00 All Students $15.00 All other non-members S2.00 Children For tickets please contact Dr. Bandyobadhyay 261 Fitzpatrick, x5693 
Wednesday... JFir<e<e Appetizer Buffet Thursday... JFir<e<e Pizza Buffet 
Friday... 1Firte<e Cake and Prizes Saturday... Notre Dame vs. Navy Halloween Costume Contest With $$$ Prizes 


PHoNE:2 7 --Sport 
2046 South Bend Ave.•South Bend 
Monday-Thursday 11:30 a.m.-1:00 a.m. • Friday & Saturday 11:30 a.m. -2:00 a.m. 
The Observer page 21 
BRIEFS 
Irish attack starts slowly but builds 
Irish Youth Hockey Lelagtlte:ts tc~oldngtO:r ]'i!J:lt $tllrl&nts:to,, 1 
coach or assist coaches tet~''jy~~~~;~pr;~j%i~D~~~~~i~f momentum behind running attack 
interested, contact Sco\t uo:sse:un a 
The women's tl.eslkettlel~l t4~t;ll11'\~lillholld)l~t:tJnfonnatb)naL, 
meeting for anyone int.,;,..,,,.t1l•lf 
p.m. at tile:})·as~et:P•~··,oqite.Jf' 'un~~l¢Lt~ ~tt.eJ:u~f ~~•·•••§ij.t:~ 239~5420. 
...... . ·. ··:· ·: :: .. .. .. . .. 
SportsTalk welcomes.Jeff·Burris ,1;6nigllt.at.,& pl~} qri WV:FI• 640AM. Call in with questions and comment$ at~39~64QQ;: J 
:::: ·.:. : ··.·:·· 
The men's baskelbalf team will lie h~llli~1g ~~1:}{--on tryouts. on November 1 and Zat 1 p,m: in tl1~4A~QA:'t'~ti~;· ··· 
The Observer.• ,·Sports., ·staf~•.•·•Wjl~···.li~ld•,• ·•~••••sp~rt~ ••••.~i~er~···,···• ·. 
meeting onOctober 28 at$ P~m bi tbe Olj$~rv~r 9ffl¢~•··· 
The Aerobic CO,n(litiOtOitJg <Qb~stacJe<Ccaur"Sevvas, ,VIroh Mary-Kate Lareau and Kim Johnson; Ml1cbfd~ Qttl.QJ~~l~( l~f-~~~g~~ti~~J.$9JW ~.h Pechman. 
did, he did turn in an impres­sive performance, going 13-18


2nd Half 
for 164 yards and two touch­downs. Mirer, who once led the continued from page 24 Irish to weekly come-from-be­hind victories, has seen the was really in sync," said Irish fall in the second half too Holtz. "But in the second half many times during the last two he sure was." years. He realizes that Notre 
Brooks' backfield mate Dame's offensive attack cannot agreed with the coach's relax after halftime. assessment. "Coach preaches that after 
"When Reggie came on, he the first half, we want to be in a came on strong," said Jerome position to run (the ball) in the Bettis, whose 113 yards second half," said Mirer. "But matched Brooks'. "He gave us we've learned in the past that an added boost." it's not over at halftime. 
Though Rick Mirer wasn't "It's not over when it's granted the statistical luxury of halfway. It's over when it's throwing 56 times, as Hancock over." 
added to the schedule and ..• , ·"' ., p~:ovide some entertainment.

Strip 
I'm sure of if Dick Rosenthal pulled some strings he could
continued from page 24 
get the Detroit Lions to come to Notre Dame. The Run-and­line judge. 
Shoot offense would be non­stop excitement, and it wouldSecondly, shovel teams like be a lock win for the Irish. 
Navy, Purdue, Michigan State and Norwestern off the sched­I'm probably jumping the gun 
ule and replace them with 
in searching for ways to spiceteams who air it out. The sec­up Notre Dame games. But ifond half was exciting because 
ever a half comes along thatthe Cougars put it in the air, resembles Saturday's bore-a­and interceptions, receptions 
thon, I will picture Lou
and collisions were the enter­slamming an official and Miamitaining result. 
on the field. Those thoughts will give me something to
Bring in teams who follow 
reflect on as I wait for my
similar game plans. Houston, nachos.
Miami, and Florida could be 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
At the start of the first quar­
ter, it looked like a game featur­
ing the two most productive 
offenses in the nation could be 
a real dog fight, but in the end 
the Cougars rolled over and 
played dead in Notre Dame's 
42-16 rout of BYU. 
Ryan Hancock, BYU's 
sophomore quarterback, 
opened the game with three 
straight passes and two first 
downs, but the drive stalled 
when he threw one pass for no 
gain and an incompletion. 
The Irish took the punt and 
sent Jerome Bettis up the mid­
dle for 11 yards and the first 
down. The Cougar defense 
tightened and stopped the 
Notre Dame running attack to 
force a punt. 
On BYU's first play Hancock and halfback Jamal Willis col­lided near the endzone and the ball popped free. Notre Dame linebacker Demetrius DuBose fell on the ball for a defensive touchdown. 
BYU answered with a 69-yard 
drive which included a mix of 
short passes and the first signs 
of a running game. Tight end 
Byron Rex just missed a touch­
down pass and the Cougars 
were forced to kick a field goal 
to bring the score to 7-3. 
The turning point in the game was the second half. Notre Dame tailback Reggie Brooks, who did not start the game, found his groove during the second half and provided a complement in the backfield to Bettis. Brooks was able to take some of the attention off the powerful fullback who the -Cougars had been keying on since the beginning of the game 
and balance the Irish attack. 
"We run the type of offense where we should pick up mo­mentum as the game goes on. We wear people down and that's our strategy. We wanted to pound them with Jerome in the first half and then bring Reggie in. Reggie never ceases to amaze me and he got in synch in an awful hurry," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. "Jerome was banged up a bit, but he stepped in and played a tremendous football game for us. 
"I think that in Rick Mirer, Jerome Bettis and Reggie we have a lot of weapons." 
Buy a $3.00 Lou Holtz mask to support Madison Center's programs for the homeless, and you'll be entered in a raffie for the following prizes: 
Grand Prize 
Round-trip airfare for two on Northwest Airlines and a week's accommodations in a luxury oceanfront condo in beautiful Kauai, Hawaii. 
First Prize 
A $500 shopping spree at Martin's Supermarket. 
Second Prize 
A weekend for two at the Drake Hotel in Chicago plus two tickets to the January 2, 1993, Bulls-Pacers game. S 
lUNNY O~dht 
-101.1'• ""!'!'~
~MADISON CENTER WSBT®Ti 
Brooks who was not at 100 percent for the game because of a nagging hip injury felt his performance was hindered by tqe injury. 
."I never did reach top speed. I was trying to keep it under control all the way. On misdi­rections, I would cut, but I wasn't able to accelerate," said Brooks. 
Nonetheless, Brooks and Bettis both rushed for 113 yards most of which came in the second half. In the first half, Bettis had 66 yards and Brooks lost a yard on his only run. Mirer, completing 12 of 17 pass attempts in the game for 151 yards and two touchdowns, also ignited in the second half after only 57 yards in the first half. 
Although tough in the first half, the Irish defense, espe­cially the secondary, kicked it up a notch in the second half allowing BYU a touchdown on their first drive in the half, but then stopped the rest of the Cougar drives with intercep­tions. 
Jeff Burris started off the "pick" parade on the Cougars' first series in the fourth quarter when Hancock under pressure lofted a bad pass. Tom Carter grabbed one on BYU's next possession. Both Burris' and Carter's interceptions led to Irish touchdowns. Burris made a diving catch for his second interception to secure the vic­tory for the Irish. 
The Notre Dame defensive front line made the BYU run­ning game non-existent by holding the Cougars to 13 total rushing yards in the game. The Irish contained Hancock in the pocket with Devon McDonald's two sacks for 20 yards in the game. 
Offensively, the only other scoring drive in the first half came in the second quarter to bring the score to 14-3 when Mirer lofted a pass to tight end Irv Smith who was wide open in the endzone. 
On the first series on the sec­ond half with the score 14-9, the Irish were able to take the kickoff and move the ball downfield for their third touch­down of the day. Senior flanker Ray Griggs caught a Rick Mirer screen pass at the BYU 45-yard line and sprinted past the BYU defenders for the touchdown which gave the Irish a 21-9 ad-
Masks & raffie tickets : available on campais in • all dorms through HPC : members, at Anthony • Travel (in LaFortune Center), Senior Bar or Dorm Conc«~ssions vantage. 

In the fourth quarter, the Irish broke the game open with three touchdowns on three straight drives. The first came when blockers cleared the way for Bettis who ran 18 yards for the score. An interception put the Irish on BYU's 43-yard line and five plays later, Bettis scored again on a six-yard fight up the middle. Another inter­ception put the Irish even closer this time on the 30-yard line and six plays later Jeff Burris waltzed into the endzone to oomplete the scoring in the game. 
It was a game of what-ifs for the BYU team who converted three field goals in the first half, two of which came after Cougar receivers dropped passes. If BYU had made those two touchdowns, the Cougars could have led 17-14 at the half and it could have been a whole different game. 
BYU head coach LaVell Ed­wards knew why his team lost the game. 
"Their (Notre Dame's) ability to run, control the clock, and get long drives plus our inabil­ity to do the same was the biggest factor in the game. They did a nice job covering our backs out of the backfield, and our tight end. They played our passing game very well," said Edwards. "We did a nice job, though mostly in the first half. We didn't play poorly, and we kept it close in the first half." 
BYU's only touchdown mid­way through the third quarter provided an emotional moment for Cougar wide receiver Tim Nowatzke and closed the. gap on the scoreboard to 21-16. Nowatzke, a Michigan City, IN native and a Irish fan as a child, attended the funeral of his grandfather on Friday. His entire family who came to the game saw Nowatzke pull in a five-yard Hancock pass in the endzone for his first touchdown of the season. 
"It's a feeling of relief to get the first touchdown off my back and in the shadow of the Golden Dome where I grew up," said Nowatzke. 

Scholarships Available 
Call 

1-800-423-SS15 
For a recorded message giving details 
Shumate & Associates 

page 22 The Observer Tuesday, October 27, 1992 


... Belles bid home farewell to seniors with nine-goal romp 

By NICOLE MCGRATH Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
When it's right, it's right and it's hot. Saint Mary's soccer team demolished Rockford College, 9-0, in their last home game this season on Sunday. 
It was an emotional game for the Belles as the seniors took homefield one last time. 
At halftime, forward Megan Dalsaso spoke for the team, in a speech to seniors Mary Barger, Kristen Crowley, Cindy Jordan, April Ehret and Stacy Winget. 
"It will be a little lonely next year on the field," said Dalsaso. But for the time being, only the Rockford College sideline was lonely. 
The Regents could only start ten players and had no players coming off the bench. The Belles enjoyed that advantage all game. 
Forward Winget, off an assist from midfielder Molly O'Connell, sliced through the Regents defense, scoring the first of six goals in the first half. 
Off a cornerkick by O'Connell, midfielder Kristen Crowley leaped into the air and headed the ball past the Regents goalie. Belles' fans were out of their seats screaming for more. 
And they got more. 
Like partners in crime, Winget and Dalsaso worked to­gether scoring goals. Winget took a shot, it bounced off the goalpost but Dalsaso brought it right back to score. 
Even the Belles' bench held their ground. Halfway into the first half, almost the whole starting line-up had subs come in. The rookies showed great promise as they allowed no shots on goal. Freshman for­ward Tiffany Raczynski scored, off an assist from Molly Lawrence, ending the first half. 
"I was very pleased with team ball movement and it reflected our growth as a team," praised Coach Tom VanMeter. 
Ehret scored the eighth goal of the game. While O'Connel made the final goal. Both were unassisted. 
Last week, according to VanMeter, the Coaches' Poll came out and the Belles are ranked eighth in the Great Lakes Region. 
Saint Mary's soccer team will play their final game at DePauw University on Wednesday. They beat them last year, 2-0, but the Tigers will be fielding a much improved varsity team. 
Irish, Macleod welcome Laketa as new assistant coach 
Parker Laketa, an assistant coach the last three years at Western Michigan University, has been named to men's bas­ketball coach John MacLeod's basketball staff. 
Laketa replaces Jeff Nix, who resigned after five years on the Notre Dame staff to become an assistant coach and advance scout for the New York Knicks of the National Basketball As­sociation. 
The 29-year-old Laketa joins the Irish coaching ranks coming off a dramatic turnaround a year ago at Western Michigan. Under head coach Bob Donewald, the Broncos finished 21-9 in the 1991-92, and re­ceived a bid to the NIT tourna­ment, following a 5-22 cam­paign the year before to make Western Michigan the second most-improved Division I team in the nation. 
Laketa's move to Notre Dame ends a six-year association with Donewald, who formerly coached high school basketball 
Meet the team Wednesday night 
Special to The Observer 
Head coach John MacLeod, his coaching staff and all the members of the 1992-93 Fighting Irish men's basketball team will hold a "Meet the Team" night on Wednesday at 9 p.m. at "Theodore's" in the LaFortune Student Center. 
The event will give the entire community a chance to talk to MacLeod and his team about the upcoming season prior to the start of pre-season practice, which begins on November 1. The event is free and open to the public. Door prizes will be given out and players will be available for autographs. 
MacLeod is entering his sec­ond year with the Notre Dame program and the Fighting Irish posted an 18-15 record last season and advanced to the championship game of the Na­tional Invitation Tournament. 
THE 
~~~At2" 
DOMER DASH 
WHAT: A two-person (1 male & 1 female) 
team obstacle course, of course! WHERE: At the JACC, Gym 2! WHEN: October 28, Wednesday, 7pm! WHO: Grab a partner and 'DO THE DASH'! HOW: Sign up at the RecSports Office, call 
239-6100! 
Participate or just watch. Those present can enter a drawing for the GRAND PRIZE -A Compact Disc Player 
Participate and compete for prizes worth over $200! 
WE DARE YOU!! 

(double dog) 
The Observer/Jake Peters The Saint Mary's soccer team said farewell to its seniors at home by ringing up nine goals against overmatched Rockford College. 
in South Bend. Laketa previ­ously spent three seasons with Donewald at Illinois State, two as a graduate assistant while completing work on a master's degree in education. 
A 1985 graduate of Kansas State University with a degree in social science and education, Laketa earned basketball let­ters with the Wildcats as a sophomore and junior. Knee injuries sidelined him the re­maining season. 
A former standout at the Homewood-Flossmoor High School in Flossmoor, Illinois, Laketa captured all-state and all-Chicago area honors while earning acclaim as the South Suburban player of the year as a senior. He won all-conference recognition on two occasions. His father, Don, retired three years ago following a lengthy basketball coaching career at that school. 
Laketa was married last summer to the former Brigitte l3oyer (sister of Irish junior guard Brooks Boyer), who serves as the women's gym­nastics coach at Western Michigan. 
* A FEATURE FIL"" 

Women's tennis sweeps MCC 
Special to The Observer 
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. -The 
University of Notre Dame 
women's tennis team won its 
fifth-straight Midwestern 
Collegiate Conference 
championship this past 
weekend as the Irish won all 
six singles and three doubles 
flights. 
Notre Dame has won all 
nine flights of action for five 
straight seasons. The Irish 
won the event with 81 points 
while Xavier was second 
with 59. 
Freshman Wendy Crabtree 
won the No. 1 singles with a 
6-0, 6-3 win over Catherine 
Smith of Butler while junior 
Terri Vitale won the No. 2 
singles with a 6-1, 6-3 win 
over Eileen Mortensen of 
Evansville. 
The No. 3 singles was won by junior Christy Faustmann, who defeated Andrea Galligan of Butler, 6­1, 6-0 and the No.4 singles was won by junior Lisa Tholen, 6-0, 6-1 over Heather Ball of Butler. Freshman Holyn Lord defeated Xavier's Heidi Pacella 6-0, 6-0 to win the No. 5 singles while freshman Sherri Vitale won the No. 6 singles with a 6-1, 6-2 win against Jeni Becker of Xavier. 
In doubles action, Faustmann and Tholen beat Lisa Ennis and Julie Lopez of Xavier 6-2, 7-5 to win the No. 1 flight, while Crabtree and Lord beat Cackie Fen­wick and Kathy Jahnke of Xavier, 6-0, 6-0 to win the No. 2 flight. The No.3 doubles was won by senior Eniko Bende and freshman Meredith Siegfried. 
* 

SUNBEAM PRODUCTIONS 
On behalf of Sunbeam Productions, Inc., a free screening of 


"HOOSIERS" 
will be presented at the Stepan Center on Wednesday, October 28 at 7:30pm. 
Angelo Pizzo, Writer, and David Anspaugh, Director, of "HOOSIERS" and "RUDY" will be present for a question and answer session after the film. 
Bring friends!! 

Be there or be square, but remember: First Come -First Served. 
** A National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week Event ** *** Sponsored by : Office of Recreational Sports & 
Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education *** 






Today 
Brought to you by DOMINO'S page 23 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  29Kin  57 Word with how  
1 Tanning material  31 Mussolini et al. 34 Compass dir.  or where 58 National Park  
•--lantern 11 Nev. neighbor 14 Chisholm or Appalachian 15AIIen from  35 Soap ingredient 36 Secluded valley 37 "Mary, Mary" playwright  63 Equal: Comb. form 64 Actress Garson 65 Western 86 Cariou or  
Utchfield,  39 Midwestern st.  Dawson  
Conn.  41 Haul  67 Actor-singer  
16 Actress  43 Noticeable  Patin kin  
MacGraw 17 National Park  46 Religious recluse  68 Greek island  
19 Photo 20 Defoe forte 21 Clock 22 B.P.O.E. man 25 Use muscles 26 Squelched  49"l've-to London ..." so Discolor 51 Actress Berger 54 Lard  DOWN 1 Eye problem 2Actress in "Where Eagles Dare"  
27"-everso  55 Transmit  3-demer  
humble ..."  56 Experienced  4 Trouble  
5Near  
6 Fools  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Clothes 
8 Laugh 9Welles role 
2& Bethlehem 10 United product 11 National Park 28Sesame 12 Carson 30 Paul from expenditure Ottawa 
13 Freedom 32Grand­National Park 
18 Polish 33-about
21 Skater Babilonia 38Kid 
39 Revelry musical partner 40 Profound 22 Kander's 
23 Actor Van Cleef 42 Magi 24 National Park 43 Afferent 

BILL WATTERSON 
• 
v~ 

y,..-:::::;;,....... ... I0-21 9 
1987 FarWorks, lnc./Oistnbuted by Umversal Press Syndicate 
Kangaroo nerds 
WELCOME BACK 


Today's Special: 

2 ~Aedium Cheese Pizzas (addi tiona! rappings 95¢ per pizza) 
Call Now 
ND SMC 


Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. © 1992 Domino1s Piua, Inc. 
TRY OUR NEW DELUXE GARDEN SALAD. 
44A.F.T. rival 45 Explosive 47 Concealed 46Called 52 Vietnamese 
New Year 53 Kind of committee 
5&ln Texas, 33.33 inches 58 "Singin' in the Rain" studio 59 Auto 60 Had a grinder 61 Animal doc 62 Homophone for air 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
CAMPUS 

Tuesday 9 p.m. Film: "Boyz N the Hood." Annenberg Auditorium. 




Sports 



• 
~ 
I I 
.. 
page 24 
GEORGE DOHRMANN 
The Jock Strip 
Boring football? a little passing might 
liven things up 
As I stood in line for nachos at 
halftime of Notre Dame's 42-16 win 
over BYU, I reflected on the thirty 
minutes of football which had just 
taken place. 
I searched my mind for visions of dazzling touchdowns, great runs, or amazing catches, but to my surprise I could not think of any. In fact, I couldn't remember a thing. Almost the entire first half had been erased from the archives of my brain, and I did not know why. 
I desperately grasped the few visions of football alive in my head. We kicked off and scored first. The band played very loud. That was it. A half-hour of football (two and a half hours of TV time) were unaccounted for. 
I returned to my seat and watched the second half as attentively as I could amidst the constant chatter of fall break activities. Upon exiting the sta­dium, I began to reflect upon the second half. Fresh in my mind was the many interceptions, scoring passes, and bruising runs. 
After reassuring myself that I did not tailgate too much before the game and am not on any medication, the only conclusion I could find to explain my temporary amnesia was that the first half was beyond boring. 
I got a hold of the first half stats and they confirmed my thoughts. Eight punts, the longest run from scrimmage was eleven yards, Notre Dame's longest pass was a whopping sixteen yards. 
I realize that these numbers do not compare to the Gerry Faust years, where the term Pinkett, Pinkett, Pinkett, Punt (referring to tailback Allen Pinkett) described Notre Dame's offensive attack but they are a far cry from the type of offense Irish faithful have grown accustomed to. 
BYU was also at fault for the Sominex sponsored first half. Three scoring chances resulted in field goals, and the potent passing attack seemed content with fifteen yard passes over the middle. 
My remembrance of the second half was again supported by the numbers. Notre Dame did not punt, Rick Mirer had a 54 yd completion, and the Irish compiled 216 yards rushing compared to 7 5 in the fist half. 
In addition to the increase in offense, Lou Holtz also took it upon himself to entertain the crowd with his best Hulk Hogan impression near the end of the game. 
Fearing that .there may be more halves of football like Saturday's opening two quarters, I have compiled a few suggestions that would increase fan enjoyment. 
For starters, if Lou sees that both offenses are stalling he must go on a tirade similar to Saturday's, and it must include at least one wrestling move. Lou could perform a Suplex or possibly the Pile-driver on one of the officials. For big games he could climb on of the goalposts and pounce on the 
see STRIP/ page 21 
INSIDE SPORTS 
Tuesday, October 27, 1992 

Second half the difference for the Irish 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR keep his form up for the entire contest. "Hancock did a nice job in the first half," said Edwards. "It's the 
Associate Sports Editor 
first time he's been under a reallot of pressure." What a difference a half makes. 
That pressure came not only from the game's national scope, After a sloppy and sluggish start, Notre Dame found 
but from a second-half surge by the Irish defense which stopped inspiration in the locker room and used a second-half 
the Cougars' passing game cold. offensive explosion and defensive toughening to hammer 
"Our defensive secondary was truly outstanding in the second Brigham Young 42-16. 
half," said Irish coach Lou Holtz. "You should pick up momentum Cold weather hadn't yet reached Michiana on Saturday, 
as the game goes on." but the Irish still couldn't get the offensive engines turning 
The Irish finally got the car moving at halftime. The defensive during the first half. Though Lou Holtz set the tone of the 
secondary shut Hancock down, limiting him to 95 yards in the second half and picking off three passes. Jeff Burris, who had two
• NO vs. BYU roundup I page 21 
of those interceptions, saw the game as a two-part series. game by pounding the Cougar front seven with Jerome "Like Coach Holtz said, we played the first half to set up the Bettis on the game's first three plays, the running game second half," Burris said. "The first half was a prelim to the was going nowhere. Drives stalled repeatedly. The Irish, second half." ranked first in the nation in total offense, gained only 132 That scenario was no more apparent than in the offensive yards and punted five times before the halftime gun. backfield, where the Irish were shut down during the first half, 
Meanwhile, BYU, ranked second offensively, was run­but came back with 216 second-half yards on the ground. ning wild. Rather, the Cougars were passing wild, with Holtz chose to keep an injured Reggie Brooks on the sideline 244 yards through the air leading to three field goals. Of during the first half. But the senior tailback turned on the heat course, the LaVell Edwards-inspired running game was after Notre Dame's quality time in the locker room, gaining all of typically horrible. But that deficiency has rarely stopped his 113 yards in the second half. BYU from winning games. "I didn't think the few times he (Brooks) played in the first half 
Quarterback Ryan Hancock looked like a reincarnation that he was really in sync," said Holtz. "But in the second half he of Gifford Nielsen or Robbie Bosco during Saturday's first 
see SECOND HALF I page 21

half. But the sophomore. starting his fourth game, couldn't 

Senior flanker Ray Griggs dives for a second-half touchdown, eluding BYU defender Derwin Gray in Notre Dame's 42-16 victory over BYU. 

V-ball upset of Lobos is no mystery 
By DAN PIER Sports Writer 
"The Magical Mystery Tour is coming to take you away, take you away. . . " -The Beatles 
Midsemester break took the Notre Dame volleyball team away on a whirlwind tour of the Southwest. The Irish experienced some mystery (an un­explained, three-hour flight delay in a Chicago airport, along with the team's best and worst matches of the year within the space of five days), produced some magic (a dramatic five-game victory over 13th-ranked New Mexico and a three-game defeat of number 21 Hawaii), and returned home satisfied with a 3-2 trip. 
The 23rd-ranked Irish are now 19-5 overall and will begin Midwestern Collegiate Conference play this weekend. Head coach Debbie Brown reflected favorably upon the week-long trek. 
"It was definitely a positive experience," Brown said. "It's tough to go on the road and come away with two wins over ranked teams. We accom­plished a lot." 
The tour had an 'inauspicious beginning, however, when Notre Dame suffered the flight delay and arrived in Albuquerque at 1:30 AM the day of its match with Cal State-Northridge (16-7). The Irish struggled, and the Matadors took advantage, winning easily 15-8, 15­0, 15-11. Notre Dame's difficulties were evidenced in its anemic .103 attack percentage, which included more errors than kills in game 2. 
"We were flat that night," Brown said. 
"It was a combination of things. We can normally adjust to the traveling, but we just didn't play well. We had our worst match of the season." 
Things took a turn for the better the next day when Notre Dame faced powerful New Mexico {10-7) at the Lobos' Johnson Arena. After two and a half hours, the Irish prevailed in a nail­biter, 12-15, 16-14, 13-15, 15-12, 15-13. Senior Jessica Fiebelkorn and sophomore Christy Peters each had 1 7 kills in the victory. A vocal crowd made the close match even more exciting. 
"It was a fun environment," Brown observed. "It was a long, difficult match; they had a lot of people there, and there were also a lot of (Notre Dame) alumni cheering us on." 
From there the Irish traveled to 
see TOUR I page 20 

Success over break leaves women's soccer with wait and see position 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 

A 3-1 finish during the fall break by the Notre Dame women's soccer keeps its NCAA tournament hopes alive as it enters the final two games of the season. 
The selection committee will choose twelve teams, two from each region, leaving four at-large bids. The Irish seem out of the running for an uncom­mitted bid, but are still in contention for a regional bid. 
Wisconsin, Virginia, William & Mary, and Rutgers join the Irish as the top four teams in the region, only Wisconsin is ranked lower than Notre Dame. The Tribe must face the Cavaliers in their annual interstate battle posing the possibility that the losing team will fall in the region. 
An additional possibility that faces Notre Dame is that the NCAA committee will look past the rankings and at the competitiveness of each team. In repeated games this year, Notre Dame proved it was better than a highly ranked foe but fell short on the scoreboard. In back-to-hack loses to top ten teams Duke and Portland, Notre Dame dominated the play only to fall 2­1. 
"The teams are not selected based on the rankings," said senior tri-captain Margaret Jarc. "We have a decent chance to get one of the bids in our re­gion." 
The chance could have been a sure thing if the Irish would have came out on top in their first game of the week against sixth-ranked Southern Methodist. 
The Lady Mustangs never allowed the potent Irish offense to get started, holding the Irish to three shots on goal while attempting 24 of their own en route to a 3-1 win. 
see SOCCER/ page 20 

IINew B~ball assistant  
see page22  
IINFLNews  
see page 17  









