
~-----~---------------------------~----------------------------­


IU2·1992 SESQUIC(NtfNNIAL 
eObserver 
Saint Ma~s College 
NOTRE DAME •INDIANA 

VOL. XXIV NO. 128 THURSDAY , APRIL 9, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush appoints Phelps to join U.S. battle against illegal drugs 

The Observer/Pat McHugh 

Afraid of needles? 
Flanner freshman Tom Jacobs shows no fear as he prepares to donate blood during yesterday's campus­wide blood drive at Theodore's. 


ND Security plans to improve programs 
By JULIE BARRETT 
News Writer 
Although more money will be allocated to Notre Dame's Se­curity budget next year, pro­grams and services the de­partment offers will be reeval­uated and redefined to make them more efficient and effec­tive, according to Bill Kirk, as­sistant vice president of Resi­dence Life. 
"More money will be put into Security's budget," Kirk said, " but Residence Life and Security are working together to try to find ways to make some of the Security services better and more efficient." 
Security services and pro­grams pinpointed for evaluation include hall monitor services in the women's dorms, perimeter and foot patrols around campus, and officers' workshifts scheduled through­out the day, according to Kirk. 
"There is no intention to lay off any (Security) employees," Kirk added, "but we might change around some work schedules." 
Security and Residence Life agreed that having hall moni­tor's cover more than one dorm during a shift would be efficient and more effective, especially since the guards would be mov­ing about and covering more bases around campus, said Kirk. 
Instead of working all year round, the hall monitor's will be commissioned to work only during the academic school year, added Rex Rakow, direc­tor of ND Security. 
The perimeter and foot pa­trols are being closely exam­ined, as well, to determine their effectiveness in ensuring a safe campus. 
Rakow said there may be fewer officers on patrol duty because no plans have been made to Ieplace the vacant po­sitions of officers leaving at the end of this year. 
"There are a couple of posi­tions (Security) is not filling," 
see SECURITY/ page 4 



Environmental issues discussed 
By CHRISSY HALL 
News Writer 
The implementation of the North American Free Trade Agreement affects numerous environmental issues pertaining to the border between Mexico and the United States, said Pro­fessor Roberto Sanchez Ro­driguez in a lecture Wednesday. 
Rodriguez, a professor at the Colegio de Ia Frontera Norte, discussed the various environ­mental hazards endangering the border communities and proposed steps towards solving some of the problems. 
According to Rodriguez, transboundary pollution con­tributes to the growing ecologi­cal problem in both countries' boundary cities. The rapid pop­ulation increase over the past several years has contributed greatly to the overabundance of trash and other forms of pol­lution in the area, he continued. 
While developers sought to 

By DAVID KINNEY 
News Editor 
President George Bush an­nounced the appointment of Digger Phelps today as sp~al assistant to Bob Martinez, di­rector of the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) and former governor of Florida. 
''I'm proud and excited to have a person with Digger's ability join us in our battle to rid our country of the terrible scourge of illicit drugs," said Martinez. uHe brings to my of­fice a proven record of working together successfully with stu­dents, teachers, parents and community leaders." 
Phelps, who was welcomed to Washington yesterday during a South Lawn ceremony at the White House, will serve as liai­build industry in these places, they disregarded ways to ac­commodate the effects of ex­pansion, said Rodriguez. "The developments did not contribute to the social infrastructure, which created a deficit to the environment," he added. 
According to Rodriguez, par­ticular cities have attracted the attention of the Environmental Protection Agency and Sedue, Mexico's equivalent organiza­tion. For example, the area be­tween El Paso, Texas and Juarez had great problems years back due to a smelter factory in El Paso. 
The hazardous effects of the plant filtered into the vicinity of a children's school in Juarez, said Rodriguez. The result was an enforcement of regulations under the Clean Air Act, which led to the installment of safe air and waste devices. 
The San Diego-Tijuana com­munity experiences pollution problems as well, mostly due to 
son between ONDCP and the 
U.S. Department of Justice's Operation Weed and Seed pro­gram. He will collaborate with Martinez, Bush and Attorney General William Barr. 
The recently-expanded pro­gram is a community-based, multi-agency approach aimed at combatting violent crime, drug use and gang activity in high-crime neighborhoods. 
The two primary goals of the initiative are to "weed" out crime in targeted neighbor­hoods and to "seed" the sites with a variety of crime and drug prevention programs and human service agency re­sources to prevent reoccurring crime. 
The objectives of the program are long-term, but the plan can become a reality, he said. The the ocean pollution in the nearby sea, he continued. Ac­cording to Rodriguez, the cul­prit for most ocean waste is Los Angeles. 
Both communities, however, can be blamed for the other problems in the area, he said. Mexico is responsible for the ashes and smoke that result from trash-burning and erosion sliding from their unpaved roads. The United States, on the other hand, can take credit for the ocean pollution. 
Other environmental prob­lems looming on the border are raw sewage and hazardous waste from various sources, said Rodriguez. "Industry grew and transformed itself into a vertical process and diversified into other areas other than tex­tiles," he said. 
According to Rodriguez, this growth in industry resulted in the creation of new hazardous 
see ENVIRON/page 4 



Digger Phelps 
attempt to save a country be­
gins with saving the neighbor­
hoods. 
He said he hopes the program can encourage teaching practi­cal skills to those under 20 ~ years old to provide them better 

opportunities for employment. For those over 20 years of age, he said he wants to implement "boot camp concepts" to create a corps of workers able to return to society. 
The program has been in op­eration for five months in Trenton, N.J. but will be ex­panded to 16 new sites, includ­ing Chicago and New York. However, this problem "is not just New York, L.A. and Chicago, it's also South Bend," he said. 
Phelps said that he hopes the "seed" portion of the plan will create a triangle composed of schools, neighborhoods and housing in which students can learn. The neighborhoods could then gain self-sufficiency and businesses would reinvest in urban communities. 
GSU discusses endorsing grad student Honor Code 
By MAURA HOGAN 
News Writer 
Kami Benson, a representa­tive from the Honor Code Committee, invited the Gradu­ate Student Union (GSU) to join the undergraduates in uphold­ing academic honesty in self and others by endorsing the Honor Code for graduate stu­.dents at last night's GSU board 
meeting. 
Presently, the Honor Code applies only to undergraduates. Many representatives protested, however, that there are fewer instances of aca­demic dishonesty among grad­
uate  students  because  the  
stakes are higher.  
Moreover,  in  asking  the  

graduate students to bind themselves by the Honor Code, the committee displayed "a very fundamental misunderstanding of what 
"Everybody is waiting for something to happen," he said, but "we all need to make a commitment on this." 
If people are willing to get in­volved in local community ser­vice programs such as neigh­borhood watch or boys' and girls' clubs, they can help others to see that there are other options besides gangs and drugs, according to Phelps. 
"I want to carry the ball na­tionally," said Phelps. "It's time to step up and coach the game of life." 
Phelps resigned last year after 20 years of coaching the Notre Dame men's basketball team. He recently served as a commentator for CBS Sports, a responsibility he said he will continue next March. 
graduate students do," said David Carr'ier, GSU vice president elect. "I am a big boy -I'm 35 years old... I'm a lot more like faculty than I am an undergraduate," he continued. 
Similarly, because integrity issues often arise regarding faculty research, the Honor Code "sounds like a great idea only if the faculty takes it along with us," said representative Tony Hazbum. 
Wrapping up old business, committee chairpersons re­ported on the success of last week's Sexual Awareness Week, noting that over 900 red ribbons had been passed out to symbolize rape survivors of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. 
The committee on childcare said that they are continuing in their efforts to provide child-
see GSU/ page 4 


page 2 Thursday, April 9, 1992
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 
If all the women's rights 

movement seeks is 
equality to men, the 
movement is setting its 
goals too low. 
Women have the 

capability of being the 
saviors of the world if they 
can assert the 
c o s m o I o g i c a I 
characteristics inherent in 
all of us but no longer 
evident in men. 
The problem, that this male-dominated world 

is on the verge of self-destruction, stems from 
culturally coded destructive male values. For 
instance, men have been determined to 
overcome nature and subdue it-a result of the 
cultural myth that nature must be controlled, 
while women have tended to live in harmony 
with nature, realizing their dependence on it. 
Likewise. male dominated religions have 
prophesied a salvation which excludes the 
necessity for sustaining the biosphere beyond 
resurrection. 
Men have likewise, with all of their technology, been unsuccessful in inventing a way to have an earth/human relationship-the relationship most fundamental and most essential to our very existence. 
So, how would women create a better society in which life would be sustainable? First of all, the mere fact that their bodies are more in sync with the universe and its processes is a start. Believe it or not, women menstruate not according to a biological clock, but a cosmological clock. Therefore, the genetic coding of the universe which repeats itself in humanity is more pertinent to women than to men. And it is this same coding that will allow us to become functioning earth citizens in a stable yet fluctuating state. 
Unfortunately, we have not yet come to realize the importance of this repetition of the cosmos within ourselves. This failure is partly a result o our ability to study and examine specifics and details but inability, or lack of concern, to study the whole. There is no science of the whole, nor a knowledge of the whole. 
Instead we must come to realize that women have the innate capability of guiding us to a peaceful and sustainable existence on the earth. ln the meantime, as long as men continue to desire an escape from the physical body, they will similarly continue to attempt to control everything physical-including nature and women. 
But if we can come to realize how literally connected we are to the earth (the earth could exist without humans but not humans without the earth), we may be able to ground ourselves in the earth, live closely to it, and live in communion with it and not in opposition to it. 
There is a Native American prophecy which forewarns the people of the earth that they will have to unite as Warriors of the Rainbow to save the planet from destruction by greed and careless exploitation. We can all be Rainbow Warriors, but barring a reevaluation of our cultural myths, men will continue to seek domination over nature and the earth. 
Let's hope that if this prophesy comes true, the women of the world will be in a position to be the Rainbow Warriors. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not neceswsarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff News Production Becky Barnes Kathy Fong Alicia Reale Cheryl Moser Graphics Sports Ann-Marie Conrado George Dohrmann Business Accent Sandy Wiegand Jennifer Guerin Pancho Lozano Mary Schultze Patrick Moran 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. Ali reproduction rights are reserved. 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Arafat lost. then found in desert 

• TRIPOLI, Libya -Search planes , "'' found PLO chief Vasser Arafat bruised but safe today in Libya's remote southern desert, where his plane had vanished in a sandstorm a day earlier. PLO officials reported with immense relief. Arab east · Jerusalem exploded with celebration, with tho~s~nds of Palestinians hugging and shouting and clapping. The loss of Arafat, the PLO's undisputed leader for 23 years, would have struck a serious blow to the organization's cohesion and could have seriously damaged the chances for success of U.S.-brokered Arab-Israeli peace talks. 
Mandela associated with murder 

• JOHANNESBURG -A senior police official will re­examine the 1989 murder of a prominent doctor fol­lowing allegations Winnie Mandela ordered the killing, authorities said Wednesday. Mrs. Mandela, wife of African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela, has denied news reports she ordered the slaying of Dr. Abu­Saker Asvat, a key figure in Mrs. Mandela's kidnapping and assault trial last year. Mrs. Mandela was 
OF INTEREST 

•The 
Mexico summer service project group will hold a hospitality luncheon today from 11:30 to 1:30 at the Center for Social Concerns. Mexican food will be served, and all are welcome to attend. 

•Irish 
Heartlights 3 & 6 Mile Fun Runs will be today at 4 and 6 p.m. at St. Mary's Lake at the Lakes Inter­section. Sponsored by RecSports and Notre Dame Food Service. 

•Reception 
for the rare book exhibit "Early Printed Books and the Columbian Encounter" reception for Rare Book Exhibit will be today at 5 p.m. Sponsored by de­partment of special collections, University Libraries. 

•Right 
to Life of ND/SMC will sponsor a peaceful picket of the South Bend Abortion Clinic Friday. Rides will be available to and from the clinic every hour on the hour from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the Main Circle. Don't for­


get your rosary. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ April 8 VOLUME TN SHARES NYSEINDEX 

..fl..
300,230,470 217.92 v 2.0 ~.._._..._s&P COMPOSITE 470.91 ..(} 3.8 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,181.35 ..o-32.2 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD {j7 S I.70 to S33H.70/oz. SILVER~ 2.7¢ to $4.083/oz. 

sentenced to six years in prison in May 1991 for the beating of four young men in her Soweto home. She is free pending an appeal. 
NATIONAL 

Officer accused of lying in court 
• SIMI VALLEY, Calif. -Two veteran policemen said one of four police officers charged in the videotaped beating case lied when he said he tried to protect Rodney King from the others. But a third officer cor­roborated Officer Theodore Briseno's account. Briseno has broken ranks with the other officers charged, testifying that they were "out of control" and used excessive force. He also said King did nothing to provoke the beating. King was beaten, kicked and shocked with a stun gun by police on March 3, 1991. 
New drug may help AIDS patients 
• 
LOS ANGELES-An experimental drug may delay or block a blood infection found in people with ad­vanced cases of AIDS, a researcher says. Preliminary test results with the drug, rifabutin, were so positive that on March 6 the U.S. Food and Drug Administration cleared the way for AIDS patients with severely impaired immune systems to receive the drug, the Los Angeles Times reported yesterday. 

•Bring 
your child to lunch day will be held by the Give Kids a Chance coalition tomorrow on the lawns near the Administration Building. Faculty, staff, and graduate students are invited to bring their children. A kiddy lunch will be offered at the Oak Room. 

•L'
Arache Daybreak Community will be repre­sented by graduate Mary Lee Freeman '91 as well as Lori Stephens, Carol Greig and Helen Jordan this Friday, to meet with students interested in volunteering at L'Arche homes. Library Concourse from 10 a.m. to 12 noon, or the Center for Social Concerns from 1 to 5 p.m. 

•Headed 
your way In May? Please stop down at Career and Placement to add your name to the USA post­ing on the clipboards. This can help you find yourself that apartmenVhouse-mate that you need out there in the Real World. Check back often for changes and additions. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1865: Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee surrendered his army to Union Gen. Ulysses S. Grant at Appomattox Court House in Virginia. 

• 
In 1942: American and Philippine defenders on Bataan gave up to Japanese forces; the surrender was followed by the notorious "Bataan Death March" which claimed 100 000 


lives. ' 
• 
In 1963: British statesman Winston Churchill was made an honorary United States citizen. 

• 
In 1987: Responding to charges of bugging at the new 


U.S. embassy in Moscow, Soviet officials displayed microphones and other gadgets they said were found in Soviet missions in the United States. 
~ 
CLOUDY 
FORECAST: 
A 30 percent chance of showers today with highs in the low 50s and lows in the high 30s. Friday will be mostly sunny with highs in the mid 50s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City Anchorage Athens Bogota Boston Cairo Chicago Cleveland Dallas Denver Detroit Indianapolis Jerusalem London Madrid Minneapolis Moscow Nashville New York Paris Philadelphia Rome San Francisco South Bend Tokyo Washington, D.C. 
H L 38 25 70 52 64 41 63 46 88 64 63 37 55 38 83 58 73 38 55 37 68 39 73 52 61 45 61 36 53 32 41 36 67 43 64 49 57 41 65 46 61 50 67 51 52 38 59 46 
69 48 


lncandela discusses God 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH News Writer 
"Dear God, what do you abstain from during Lent? I'm a Catholic and we give up things like bubble gum and candy. Signed, Kurt" ("Children's Letters to God"). 
God gives up God's very self for Lent, and God's Lent is year round, said Joseph Incandela, assistant professor of religious studies, in a lecture titled "God's Lent and Our Own: What Does God Give Up?" yes­terday. 
"To some ears the concept that gives up anything may sound strange," said Incandela. "Any change in a perfect being would be a change for the worst." 
In order to believe that God gives anything up, we must be­lieve that God suffers, and that suffering and love are interwo­ven, said Incandela. 
"All great things which seek to tell the truth about human existence must make room for the reality of suffering in our world,"·said Incandela. 
Incandela continued that all images of love in our society are connected with images of suffering. 
"We have crushes, which is a violent image for that kind of 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 239-5303. 
the price ofagood
sandwich just got lower. '' 


6" Cold Cut 
,.SUBWA~ 

I $1.00 OFF 
I $1.00 off any regular footlong sandwich. Limit five footlong
I 
sandwiches per order.

I 
I Not good wtth any other discount or offer. Good only a1 participating locations. I ExpiresMay31,1992 
I I I 


.. 
1992 Doc lor s Assoc1a!es ln1 
I $1.99 SPECIAL 
I Buy one regular footlong and large Coca-Cola at regular price, get a
I 
second regular footlong of equal orI lesser value for only $1.99. 
I 
I 
Double meats not included. Not good I wtth any other discount or offer. Good only at participating locations. Expires May 31, 1992 
I 
~~-!·l··;r!Jt;a-
I 
.. 
affection," said Incandela. "Passion means intense love and suffering. We fall in love, and if we are really in love, we fall hard." 
If we share St. Thomas Aquinas' view of God as im­passable, then there is the im­plication that God does not share our suffering with us, said Incandela. He continued that this view is troubling. 
"If I'm drowning and the per­son next to me cannot swim ei­ther, I may appreciate the com­pany, but I must seriously won­der what his ultimate purpose of being there was," he said. 
God enters completely into human misery to transform and redeem humans, said In­candela. 
"God's Lent of giving up his very self, is our lent of giving tip our selves, said Incandela. "God gives up His suffering by taking in His suffering. God heals by becoming infected." 
Incandela received his bache­lor degree in philosophy and theorogy from the University of Notre Dame and his doctorate in the philosophy of religion from Princeton University. 
The lecture, a part of the Lenten Lecture Series, was sponsored by the Center for Spirituality and held at Saint Mary's. 




Senate hopes for cooperation 
By DAVID KINNEY News Editor 
Professor Paul Conway, chair of the Faculty Senate, ex­pressed hope that the adminis­tration's cooperative spirit at Tuesday's Senate meeting will lead to concrete results. 
Provost Timothy O'Meara outlined a number of proposals aimed at increasing faculty participation in governance at Tuesday's meeting, at which faculty planned to vote on a resolution expressing no confi­dence in University President Father Edward Malloy, accord­ing to Conway. 
The Senate decided to post­pone the vote until April 22, during which time representa­tives would meet with Malloy to address the faculty's concerns, he said. 
Malloy, who did not attend the meeting, also sent a letter to members of the Faculty Senate Friday in an attempt to make his plan for a third body more concrete. 
According to Conway, O'Meara discussed the possibil­ity of creating ad hoc commit­tees within the Academic Coun­cil and allowing more time for the discussion of issues. 
While neither O'Meara nor Malloy offered guarantees, both 

Clinton seeks smooth sailing for campaign 
The Observer 
is now accepting application for the following position: 
Accent Columnist 
Please submit a 1 page personal statement and a sample column to Jahnelle Harrigan by 5 p.m. on Wed. April15 
To apply, please contact ]ahnellle at 239-7471 . 

1 f;-42-1992 
Un""'rsrtyof l'<>tr~ Dan-.. 
20 YEARS OF WOMEN AT 
I I
1
I 
I I I I I 
~ 

NOTRE DAME: 
Past, Present and Future 
A Panel Discussion Sponsored by The Gender Studies Colloquium .Sunday April 12 7pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Panelists Include: Fr. Don McNeill. Prof. Josephine Ford, Assistant Prof. Charlene Avallme. Ms. Calhai1ne Rdus. Ms. Joanne Kelly. Ca1hcrine Sheehy, Manuel Espino 
b""""""""""""""""~"""'~~~"""'"""'"""'"""'"""'"""'"""'"""'"""'"""'"""'~ 
made an effort to show that the administration is willing to cooperate on these issues, Conway said. 
"We're not necessarily confi­dent (that the Senate will not go to a vote on the resolution), but hopeful," he said. "It depends on whether we get something specific." 
O'Meara said the meeting was very constructive and focused. "I'm very positive that the rela­tionship with the faculty will be a healthy one." 
Conway said that the admin­istration intended to avoid the Senate's vote of no confidence and to find a peaceful solution to the issue of faculty partici­pation in governance. "They seemed to be working to show cooperation with the faculty." 
Malloy's letter explained that the third body, which he pro­posed in response to the fac­ulty's plan to restructure the Academic Council, would be composed of approximately 50 members, about 3-2 of which would be faculty. 
The president, executive vice president and provost would be among those administrators who would also sit on the body, which would have a right of agenda to the Academic Coun­
cil. · Conway said that Malloy's 
letter and proposal were re­ceived with mixed emotions by the faculty. Some believed that it could render the Faculty Sen­ate useless or could make the Academic Council simply a rub­ber stamp. 
While Conway cautioned that these are only initial interpreta­tions, "it didn't look like it would give faculty a greater role." 
He added that he was pleased that O'Meara attended the meeting. "I think he learned more about the actual strength of faculty pressure on the issue of governance." 
Professors Philip Quinn and David O'Connor drafted the no­confidence resolution in re­sponse to concerns that the faculty were not involved in the governance of the University as it pertains to academic issues. 
They decided to call for the vote in early March after Malloy vetoed a proposal passed by the Academic Council. Faculty said that proposal, which would have increased the number of faculty on the Academic Council and created standing committees, was intended to in­crease faculty role in the aca­demic governance of the Uni­versity. 
ers. 
The visit was part of an broader effort to demonstrate that Clinton's campaign is back on track and his nomination inevitable. It was seen as a chance to show him tackling thorny political situations and presenting an activist image in contrast to President Bush. 
It also offered an opportunity to shore up his image with la­bor, particularly the United Auto Workers union, which represents Caterpillar workers and has had a sour relationship with Clinton at home in Arkansas. 
Clinton cautioned he would remain neutral but said a na­tional health care system would ease future labor disputes. He also urged the Bush adminis­tration to get involved. 
"The health care issue cannot be satisfactorily fixed unless the president gives the country a national health care system," he said. "If I were president and it had come to this pass, I would have the Labor Depart­ment involved." 
---...-..·
DeU:r ._.._.,....­
..._ .. W'_POU 
DeU:r•....--,_.­
DeU:r ---·· ._....,,__ 

rand Opening April 3rd 


Rainbow Video 
WE SPECIALIZE IN: 
Korean Japanese Chinese Video Tapes 
Free Membership 
State Road 23 & Ironwood 
Next to 76 Gas Station Mon-Sat 10 am to 8 pm Sun 12 noon to 6 pm 

(219) 273-9545 
PEORIA, Ill. (AP) -Bill Clin­ton set out Wednesday to prove his drive to the Democratic presidential nomination would be without further detours and to bolster his shaky image with voters. 
An exhausted Clinton took lit­tle time to celebrate his victo­ries Tuesday in New York, Kansas and Wisconsin pri­maries. The Arkansas governor traveled to Illinois to visit striking union workers and management at Caterpillar Inc., where the company is trying to crush a five-month-old strike and seeking replacement work­

-~-~-­

GSU 
continued from page 1 
care for graduate students and faculty. As a new member on the provost's task force, they hopn to convince the adminis­tration to ease the existing strain on single or married parents, said members of the committee. An undergraduate petition has already yielded 300 signatures in favor of campus childcare. 
A unanimous vote decreed that a moderate letter of dis­sent will be sent to the Smoking Task Force to plead for a more lenient policy. It was suggested that, while the GSU is in favor of limiting smoking at Notre Dame, more areas should be set aside for smokers. 



Security 
continued from page 1 
Rakow said, "such as those at the gates and parking enforce­ment. But some of the shifts may be changed and possibly lengthened to take up the slack." 
Kirk commented on the fine job that Security has done this year and added that there have been a fewer number of serious incidents reported this year than in the past. 
lie mentioned the improve­ments Security has made in making Notre Dame a safe campus over the years, such as the fencing along St. Mary's Hoad, the emergency call boxes and the perimeter patrol. 
"We have a real fine Security Department already," Kirk said, "and we are looking harder at how the money is used to make it even better." 

Environ 
continued from page 1 
wastes, which threaten public safety. the environment, and water quality. 
The various ecological prob­lems have a direct effect on the destruction of natural re­sources, said Sanchez. The most important of these re­sources is water. which is a big commodity in the dry desert ar­eas around the border. "Because there is no agreement regulating the distribution of ground water, "water is becom­ing a critical problem for cities on the border," he said. 
The problems surrounding these issues have resulted in the establishment of regional priorities. 
The primary agenda, ac­cording to Sanchez, focuses on the the treatment of wastewa­ter. Air pollution is also a sec­ondary concern. 
The plan, which will be im­plemented this year, will be an important step towards a long time commitment to heal the environmental situation, said Sanchez. 
Sanchez proposed another set of alternatives, which include establishing an institutional new border agency that is not involved with the government. Also, regional networks and public participation are vital to fixing the situation. 
According to Rodriguez, the approach to the environmental problem should be integrated, as well as low in cost. It is nec­essary to look for alternative works and planning, which fo­cus on short, middle, and long term planning. 
Rodriguez said he wonders whether the Free Trade Agree­ment will turn North America into an ecological zone. At this point in time, the transbound­ary environmental issue is de­pendent on the rest of the global environment. 
Rodriguez said how Americans behave within the country's boundaries and with bordering neighbors will have an effect on the rest of the world as a whole. 
For example, industry solely within the United States is re­sponsible for 25% of emissions contributing to the Green House Effect. he said. 
Similarly, industry not only effects the environment, he concluded, but studies have also shown that the rise in harmful emissions to the atmosphere have been accompanied by an increase in Third World debt for poor unindustrialized countries. 
~"&.."-~1-!RIIRMIIRfiH!~"-"-"-~"-"-"-~ 
1  Why is it I always scare people in bed?  ~ ~ ~  
Have a  
reat 22nd  
Dave  
Love, CC  



SAINT MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY WILL OFFER 

SUMMER STORAGE 
FOR YOUR WINTER ITEMS!! 
STORAGE POLICY: 

• 
STORAGE BEGINS APRIL 13, 1992, WITH DROP OFF AT EITHER SAINT MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY OR THE BUNDLE DISTRIBUTION CENTER LOCATED ON CAMPUS 

• 
STUDENTS MAY REQUEST THAT THE STORAGE FEE BE DEDUCTED FROM THEIR LAUNDRY CONTRACT, HOWEVER, YOU NEED NOT HAVE A CONTRACT TO PARTICIPATE ' ALL ITEMS MUST BE LAUNDERED OR DRY CLEANED BY SAINT MICHAEL'S 


• 
AT THE TIME OF STORAGE AND A $5.00 STORAGE FEEWILLBEADDEDTO YOUR INVOICE 

• ALL ITEMS MUST BE RETRIEVED FROM THE BUNDLE DISTRIBUTION CENTER (ON CAMPUS) NO LATER THAN SEPTEMBER 8, 1992 OR AN ADDmONAL FEE OF 25% OF THE TOTAL INVOICE WILL BE IMPOSED 
SAINT MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY OFFICE HRS 7:30A.M.-4:30P.M. M-F 239-7802 SAINT MICHAEL'S BUNDLE DISTRIBUTION CENTER HRS 8:00A.M. -4:30P.M. M-F 239-7565 


The Observer/Pat McHugh 

Prayer for the unborn 
Father Edward O'Connor, associate professor of theology, leads a rosary dedicated to the end of abortion yesterday at the Grotto. 


SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  
4121 S. Michigan  5327 Grape Road  
(U.S. 31 South)  (1/2 Mi. 5. of University Park Mall)  
291-9200  277-8121  






Yeltsin's powers may be revoked 
MOSCOW (AP) -Russian lawmakers appeared to be on the verge of revoking President Boris Yeltsin's extraordinary powers on Wednesday as mo­mentum swung back to his op­ponents during a crucial par­liamentary session. 
Yeltsin still has time to lobby or compromise before a possi­ble vote Thursday to declare "dissatisfaction" with his mar­ket reforms and cancel his au­thority to issue economic de­crees without legislative ap­proval. 
The loss of his special pow­ers, granted by parliament a year ago, would be a severe blow to the reforms and could lead to an overhaul of Yeltsin's Cabinet. 
"If the president loses his ex­traordinary powers and his ability to lead the government, the entire Cabinet of course will resign," Vice Premier Yegor Gaidar, the architect of the re­forms, told a meeting of Yeltsin supporters Wednesday night. 
''I'm afraid the odds are pretty good that the president will lose his additional powers," said Gleb Yakunin, a lawmaker and Russian Orthodox priest. 
"You can see that a large part of these deputies are still pro­Communist at heart," Yakunin said. 
Yeltsin had seized the initia­tive in the 1,046-member Congress of People's Deputies, dominated by former Commu­nists, with a speech Tuesday warning that a reduction in his powers could "plunge the coun­try into chaos." 
He bolstered his support among Russian hard-liners by countering Ukraine's claim to the Black Sea fleet and by speeding up the formation of a separate Russian army. 
In a corridor just outside the meeting hall, Yeltsin supporters hung a hand-drawn picture of a grenade with a pin in the shape of the president's face. If it were withdrawn, the grenade -labeled "totalitarianism" and "anarchy"-would explode. 
But Yeltsin's opponents took the offensive on Wednesday, forcing him to return to his lonely seat in front of the par­liament and listen in silence as they accused him of reducing the Russian people to poverty. 
"Reformers who began the so-called shock therapy must now learn two new words: first aid and resuscitation, because that is what most of the popu­lation needs," said lawmaker Valery Vorontsov. 
Yeltsin's economic program has caused prices to soar and "pushed millions of people into poverty," Vorontsov said. 


The Observer/Pat McHugh 
New to South Bend 

As graduation ceremonies approach, the Inn at Saint Mary's will soon be opening its doors to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame families arriving to celebrate commencement. 
British Labor Party may win elections 

Student Union Board 2nd Fir. LaFortune 
Questions caH Heather at 284-5433 
LONDON (AP) -Prime Minis­ter John Major and Labor Party leader Neil Kinnock both pre­dieted victory on the eve of Bri­tain's national elections. 
On Thursday, voters may prove both men wrong. 
At the end of a frenetic three-week campaign that scarcely altered the opinion polls, Bri­tain appeared headed for ami­nority government that would end 13 years of unshakeable Conservative Party rule. 
The British Broadcasting Corp.'s average of four new polls released Wednesday night put Labor at 39 percent, just 
C'\A-n 
sw~1~:1:JOARP 
SAIIIIT MARY'S COLLEGE 

SH 1DENT UNIO"" BCMRD 

one point ahead of the Conser­vatives' 38, and the centrist Liberal Democrats at 19. The margin of error was 1.5 per­cerit, the BBC said. 
Both major parties were short of the 40 percent plus needed for an outright majority. But the Conservatives had edged up from a two-point deficit in the BBC's "poll of polls" a day earlier. 
The four new surveys, by Gallup, ICM, Market Opinion and Research International and National Opinion Polls, put La­bor between 0.5 points behind and three ahead. 
Only the Liberal Democrats, at 15 percent at the start of the campaign, have gained signifi­cantly. 
If the voting is as close as the polls indicate, the outcome may not be known until Friday afternoon, when the last three dozen districts are expected to report. 
Major, facing a loss of the huge majority he inherited 16 months ago from Margaret Thatcher, insisted he was "absolutely stone-cold certain" of winning a majority on 
r-----~----~------~~~----------­
Flower Delivery 7 Days 





P@'SY 0 ~ttJtt 
Super Saver prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 
(219)277-1291

51400 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 Phone answered 24 hrs. 
BRUNO'S PIZZA 18" Pizza
' 

2 ITEM LIMIT $12.00 


288-3320 
Available 7 days a week 
Banquet Rooms Available for 50-100 students Special Student Discount wI Stud. ID 
$3.00 Drink Pitchers 

Students fear 

racial tension 
OLIVET, Mich. (AP) -Most black students at Olivet College packed their bags Wednesday, saying they would commute long distances to classes or fin­ish them by mail because racial strife had made the campus unsafe. 
"We completely feel this insti­tution is not deserving of our financial support or our pres­ence," Henry Henderson, presi­dent of the school's black fra­ternity, Elite, told professors, students and administrators. 
Black students were excused from classes for the week, and some were given permission to finish their coursework by mail. A few said they would quit school. 
Still others planned to attend classes but live at home, including Henderson, who said he would commute to Olivet from his home in suburban Detroit, about 90 miles away. 
"The lines of communication are still open. But we need to negotiate from a position of safety," Henderson said. 
About 50 of the liberal arts college's 650 students are black. College President Donald Morris said about 35 had de­cided to leave. 
He said their departure was 
unfortunate but he understood
their fears. "Students who for reasons of personal concern about their 
safety are excused from classes for the remainder of this 
week," Morris said. "The cam­pus will remain open for all
students who wish to attend classes." The brawl occurred last 
· Thursday after a white female student quarrelled with her 
boyfriend, who is also white. 
When the boyfriend returned to her dormitory with two black friends. the woman 
telephoned a mostly white fraternity for help, police and 
Thursday, April 9, 1992 


IU fraternity is placed on disciplinary probation

RIP 
Pro-life vs. pro-choice 
In response to the Right to Life group's portrayal of a grave yard of aborted children on the quad near the Peace Memorial, a pro-choice demonstration was staged yesterday on North Quad . 

AT"""TN JUNIORS•. 
APPLICATIONS FOR Iftft2. 
77;,


SR FORMAL EXECUTIVE 
• COMMIT-TEE 
CAN BE PICKED UP AT LAFORTUNE INFO. DESK fl HAGGAR FRONT DESK. APPLICATIONS DUE APRJL I2TH BY PM 

~;·t:n:es:s:e~s:sa~i:d·~............~=========== 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)­Indiana University has placed the Beta Theta Pi fraternity on disciplinary probation for haz­ing and unauthorized posses­sion of alcohol. 
Richard McKaig, IU's dean of students, said Tuesday that a student board found the fra­ternity guilty of violating the school's ethics code. 
The All Fraternity-Sorority Judicial Board, made up of a dozen undergraduate members of Greek organizations, made its recommendation to McKaig last week. 
"There is no pleasure for ei­ther the judicial board or for me in this action," McKaig said. "But our campus community cannot tolerate actions that jeopardize the well-being of our students." 
Under probation, Beta Theta Pi will be prohibited from par­ticipating in parties, exchanges, serenades and any other social or university community events until Oct. 25. 
The prohibition includes this spring's Little 500 and Home­coming next fall. 
IReduce Reuse Recycle 
THANK YOU! I 

SESQUICENTENNIAL YEAR STUDENT COMMITTEE 
Thursday. April 9 Ramada Inn (U.S. 31) 8:30 PM to 1 AM No cover charge 
Friday. April 10 AIumni Senior Club 10 PM to 2 AM No cover for members 
(co-sponsored by Alumni Senior Club) 
Must be 21 to enter! 
A Sesquicentennial Year Student Charity Event 
Donations will be accepted for the Meghan Beeler and Colleen I-lipp Memorial Scholarships 


~~~-THE VARSITY SHOP--­
Haircuts $6.00 52580 U.S. 31 North, South Bend 
277--0057 






i~~~C~A~MP~US~RE~PS~W~J\N~TED~II 
I
I To market our programs on campus. I 
The perfect job for those bound for I ' graduate school! Look at the advantages: I 
• 
Generous compensation!

• 
Work on your campus! 1 _,_ 

• 
Set your own hours! I 

• 
Earn BIG commissions! 

• 
Have fun while you work! 1 

• 
Earn a FREE LSAT, GMAT, GRE 



I 
I 
1 

I or MCAT Prep Course! 
1 
I
For more information, call 
I 
I 
I


moNKlN I 
EDUCATIONAl GROUP at 

South Bend Call273-1866 
You deserve better 
ALO.MNI SENIOR CLUB'S 

FRIDAY LUNCH 
Ill 
ALUMNI--~-~ 
SENIOR 




~CLUB 
Every Friday 12·2 
ID required 



Bisho s ur e tti'e Church
p g Jj;;~::\'"FiY::;. to fight for eq~~alt~.~ htS,·:. 
(AP) -Sexism is a moral and social evil that the u.s: Catholic Church should fight in forums ranging from its o youth education programs legislative battles for equal ... for equal work. a committee or bishops said Thursday. 
Treading between risking Vatican censure and the anger of millions of Catholic women,w the committee did not back.fjj down to the demands of some 11 e first . top church leaders that its1)!; sition for pastoral letter be downgraded '",,The letter to a pastoral statement. t.e.June 18-20 
In the third draft, National . C bishops also call for each Catholic#! diocese to establish,,,,, commissions on women and l[i!~ expe1cted. society and more discussion on Til;• .· · • •·•• v •. ., .. ,.,.,.". allowing female deacons and : WashiJlgton. ~'· . altar servers. They also say ''My biggestl!Pleasure witb' the willingness of priesthood e third draEt is ..... we're candidates to treat women as finally at th~ .. mo~e11t wh~n equals should be taken into, our 7 cpn!~rence,· .••... as consideration for ordination;'"'!;WI+ conference· and Jn·public, .'Will 
But the document by the Ad ilftake,up these themes,'' said Hoc Committee for a Pastoral Bish · . Matthew · k Response to 
Ifthe press didn't tell us,who would? 
PARIS (AP) -France on Wednesday became the first na­tion to indefinitely suspend its nuclear weapons testing. It urged other nations to follow suit. 
The unexpected decision was cheered by anti-nuclear ac­tivists who have clashed with France in its South Pacific test­ing grounds. But the conserva­tive opposition said the action would weaken the defense of France and Europe. 
The Soviet Union declared a one-year moratorium on weapons tests in October. There was no sign the three other major nuclear powers were prepared to follow France's example. The U.S. State Department said bomb tests in Nevada would continue. 
The announcement by Social­ist Premier Pierre Beregovoy was symbolic of the post-Cold War mood among some nations that are seeking to redirect mil­itary expenditures, although it did not appear to be economi­cally motivated. 
"One hopes that the lead they've taken will be followed 

France suspends nuclear tests 
To get printed information on the role of a free press and how it protects your rights, or to discuss any free press issue, call the First Amendment Center at 1-800-542-1600. 

and one hopes that slowly and surely testing for weapons will diminish entirely," said foreign minister Don McKinnon of New Zealand, which with Australia has long opposed the Pacific testing. 
Beregovoy -in his first pol­icy speech since taking office last week -said President Francois Mitterrand ordered the suspension of tests in hopes of encouraging further accords on disarmament and testing limits. France had planned four to six nuclear tests this year. 
"We will see in 1993 if other counties follow this example," Beregovoy told the National Assembly. "We've got to put a halt to overarmament and the endless accumulation of atomic arms." 
Beregovoy said France was not prepared to dismantle its nuclear force but favored a "balanced reduction" of nuclear arsenals. 
An independent nuclear ca­pability has long been a pillar of French military policy. France has conducted 196 atmospheric and underground tests at two remote Polynesian atolls since 1966. 
The United States has con­ducted at least one under­ground nuclear blast in Nevada this year. 
Britain tests its nuclear weapons in cooperation with the United States in Nevada. China has not made any an­nouncements on nuclear test limits. 
One environmental·group, London-based Greenpeace, waged a 20-year campaign against the French Pacific tests. Its flagship, the Rainbow Warrior, was sunk by French commandos in 1985. A photog­rapher aboard was killed. 
"This is fantastic," said Lena Hagelin, a Greenpeace spokeswoman. 
"We've been trying for 20 years to put nuclear testing on the French political agenda," she said. "This moratorium will allow us to start working to­ward an international compre­hensive testban treaty." 
France began nuclear tests in 1960, six years after it started building its nuclear force. 
Cold remedies may harm 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The antihistamines found in most of the cold remedies on the mar­ket may do more harm than good, medical ~xperts said Wednesday, suggesting they be removed from those products. 
One of the experts said a shot or two of whiskey before bed­time might be better for a cold sufferer than a nip of Nyquil. 
While antihistamines are use­ful in treating allergies, their effect in treating the symptoms of a cold are marginal at best, witnesses told a House panel. 
"Since antihistamines have the potential to cause harmful effects, the risks associated with their use outweigh any meager benefit," said Leslie Hendeles, a professor of phar­macy and pediatrics at the Uni­versity of Florida. "It is my opinion that these drugs should be removed from all non-pre­scription products promoted for the relief of cough and cold symptoms." 
Hendeles said studies going back to the mid-1970s found that cold sufferers given anti­histamines did no better than those given a placebo. In addi­tion, he said, the antihistamines have potentially dangerous side effects, such as drowsiness and impaired mental performance. 
People with allergies get runny noses and watery eyes when the linings of their noses and eyes release histamine, Hendeles said. The treatment for that is an antihistamine, · often in combination with a de­congestant. 
•••••••••••s••••••••••••••
• ~IONDAY 1L\D Tl!ESIU\' ••• APRIL l3AND 14 •• • 
TRENT 



ARTERBERRY 
8:10p.m. 

Washington Hall 
Tickets: $8-Notre Dame and Saim 1\lar/s Swdcnts $!(}-General Admission $'i-Children (12 and under) 

Group rates available. • LaFortune Center Box Office 
Mime Trent Arterberry moves through aseries of contemporary scenes with a unique athletic grace and presence. His show ranges from hilarious descriptive mime ro interpretive dance and includes improvisational sketches with audience participation. Arterberry began studying mime in the '70s with such masters as Marcel Marceau. 

a little... 
Warehouse 
& & The Spaghetti Warehouse 501 N. Niles Downtown South Bend 



Business 
page 8 Thursday, April 9, 1992 

Taxpayers seeking Council on International Business selects its officers for next year 
filing extensions 

By PANCHO LOZANO growing exponentially ac­Kiel said the group's primaryNEW YOHK (AP) -With The big catch to all this is Business Writer cording to Kiel. goal at this time is to establish a 
April 15 fast approaching, an that an extension of the filing The activities the NDICBD consistent internship program 
escape routA remains open for deadline doesn't relieve any­The Notre Dame Council on sponsors include coordinating for students interested in 
taxpayers who can't get ready body of the requirement to pay International Business internship programs with international business. "At the 
in time for their date of up on time. Development has instated its overseas companies in moment, we have 25 to 30 
reckoning with the Internal On Form 4868, you must new officers for the 1992-1993 countries such as England, students on internships."said 
Hevenue Service. state the total you owe, and at­academic year, effective April 1. Poland, and Germany and Kiel. "We pretty much want to 
All they need to dodge the tach payment for the balance sponsoring forums given by in­
The new officers for next year double that by next year." 
deadline is Form 4868. other­due, in order for the extension are James Nappo, chairperson, ternational diplomats or com­The NDCIBD hopes to begin
wisn kno'A'n as "Application for to be granted. sending interns to underdevel­
Andrew Kiel, president, Amy pany representatives. 
Automatic Extension of Time "You can estimate this Mark, marketing coordinator, "This past year was very suc­oped countries in Eastern Eu­
to File U.S. Individual Income amount, but be as exact as you Stacy Reed, internship cessful. We had 25 to 30 stu­rope and Southeast Asia as well Tax Return." can with the information you coordinator, Jerry Hogers, Citi­dents going away on internship as developed countries such as 
If you fill out and send in this have," the IRS says. "If we zens Democracy Corps, Chris programs,"said Kiel. "that's Australia and Japan, Kiel said. 
one-page form by the date later find that your estimate Cronk, Professional Develop­eight to 10 more than last "We are really looking to 
your tax return is due, you can was not reasonable, the exten­
ment Division, Esteban Cantillo, year." diversify our horizons much 
gain an extra four months, sion will be null and void." treasurer, and Natalie Hyan, Many of the council's goals more." 
until mid-August. to complete The rules contain other spe­secretary. did get accomplished, but Kiel Student participation on the paperwork. cific incentives to avoid low­"The primary purpose of the said there is still a long way to campus is the second priority
And you will have plenty of balling the estimate. If your NDCIBD is to create a more in­go. "We set ideals for 20 or 30 for the club. Keil said this could 
company. About 5 million tax­figure comes up short of the years down the track. best be accomplished by
ternationally aware student," 

payers filed for extensions last ultimate balance due by any said Kiel. Everything we're doing now is increasing membership. 
year, and the IRS says it ex­amount at all, the difference is The popularity of the NDCIBD just a beginning," he said. "Currently we have 170 to 
pects a similar number this subject to interest charges has grown immensely in the "These are just steps in attain­200 members. We are hoping 
year. out of about 114 million from April 15 onward. past year, with an increase of ing the ideals which the council to increase that to 400 mem­
individual returns in alL "Furthermore," cautions J.K. 100 members, with the projects established." bers by the next couple years." 
Where to get the form in Lasser's Monthly Tax Letter, "if 
question? It's too late now to the payment made with Form 
United Way borrowing after dues cut off
obtain a copy by telephoning 4868, plus withholdings and the IHS, says Don Hoberts, a estimated tax payments, does RESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK, Durham and Orange counties. dues don't start coming in soon,
spokesman for the agency. not equal at least 90 percent of N.C. (AP) -United Way of He said he did not know how layoffs and program cuts could 
But there are plenty of other the tax due, you may be America began borrowing much has been borrowed. begin by summer, he said. 
places to look, including local subject to a late payment money last week because local Dam is trying to get local or­But he said that while the na­
banks or other financial Insti­penalty." chapters have cut off dues since ganizations to resume paying tional organization is in critical tutions and -perhaps the best reports of financial irregulari­dues, which many withheld shape, the situation appears to bet -a public library. So, if you are going to esti­ties, the interim president said after former President William be improving. 
If the library doesn't have mate on the safe side, chances Wednesday. Aramony resigned in Februarycopies of the form itself, check are good that your estimated "We are borrowing, and I amidst reports of lavish spend­"A lot of people are really any tax-preparation guides on payment will run at least a don't want to borrow.... but on ing and a salary of more than outraged about it, and they re­
the library's shelves for copies little more than what you wind 
the other hand, I just don't $460,000. ally should be because a lot of 
of thH form that can be photo­up owing in the final want to shut down the place ei­Only $400,000 in dues were people who really can't afford it 
copied for your use. reckoning. ther," Kenneth Dam told United paid in March, out of $2 million do give a lot of money week by 
Way leaders from Wake, expected, Dam said. If local week," he said. 

Clinton visits auto workers, says they have right to strike 
PEOHIA, Ill. (AP) -United right to strike, and they to persuade Caterpillar not to Auto Workers who have struck shouldn't lose their jobs doing replace the strikers. Caterpillar Inc. for five months it." "Surely, the experience at were buoyed Wednesday by a Caterpillar said Clinton should Eastern Airlines, Greyhound, visit from Democratic presiden­stay out of the fray. the New York Daily News and tial candidate Bill Clinton and a "We asked his campaign countless other less publicized plea from U.S. senators for people not to bring him in as a disputes has shown that the in­mediation. mediator," said Tim Elder, troduction of permanent re­
UAW members also protested manager of Caterpillar's gov­placements is counterproduc­outside the company's annual ernmental affairs. "We feel that tive," they said. shareholders meeting in Wilm­would be an inappropriate role In Delaware, about 200 UAW ington, Del. Caterpillar contin­for Governor Clinton." workers from Caterpillar's plant ued to screen replacements for Simon, who also said he sup­in York, Pa., about 75 miles about 13,000 workers who ig­ported the union, was among 15 away, picketed outside the hotel nored an ultimatum to return to senators who wrote Labor where the company held its their jobs on Monday. Secretary Lynn Martin, asking shareholders meeting. The 
Clinton, accompanied by Sen. her to appoint someone to me­strike affects only Caterpillar Paul Simon, D-Ill., stood outside diate the dispute, which centers plants in Illinois but members the gates of Caterpillar's East around the UAW's demand that said they showed up to give Peoria plant and addressed Caterpillar accept a contract support. thousands of cheering UAW similar to one with Deere & Co. Bill Casstevens, secretary­members. of Moline. treasurer of the UAW, tried 
"It's not good business to re­Caterpillar says the compa­during the meeting to present place workers," Clinton said. nies are too different to accept the union's side, but was ruled "The way to solve a strike is not similar contracts. out of order by company to replace workers. They have a The letter also asked Martin Chairman Donald Fites. 
Labor secretary: Bush wants to extend unemployment compensation 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -Labor only an extension of the emer­Under the current compensa­percent. About 9.2 million Secretary Lynn Martin said to­gency aid while Downey's pro­tion program, out-of-work Americans were out of work in day that President Bush wants posal would make permanent people can qualify for 26 weeks February. to work out an agreement with changes in the unemployment of regular benefits, plus 26 or Martin said she had sent let­Congress to extend the emer­compensation program. She 33 more weeks of coverage de­ters to congressional leaders gency unemployment compen­also said the Democratic mea­pending on how bad unem­asking them to work with her to sation program through the end sure would require a tax in­ployment is in their state. How­develop the details and added, of the year. crease and would take a long ever, the extra weeks of cover­"Early discussions with 
"Partisan politics must not time to pass. age are due to expire July 4. Congress indicate we should be slow this action." Martin said, Martin said the administra­Martin said the administra­able to reach agreement." noting that an extension would tion would support a measure tion's willingness to work to­Bush killed two unemploy­get unemployed Americans only if it "does not threaten the ward extending the benefits did ment benefit bills passed by "through the election season." recovery and existing jobs by not represent any abandonment Congress last year, but he ac­
Last week, Rep. Thomas breaking the budget agreement of its belief that the economy is cepted a compromise last fall Downey, D-N.Y., and several or threatening the fiscal disci­emerging from recession. and quickly worked out an House Democratic leaders in­pline necessary to resolve our "If there's better and better agreement with Democrats in troduced a bill that would pro­budget deficit problems." She recovery, there will be fewer February when the first round vide up to 20 weeks of extra declined to offer any parame­that will need this benefit ... but of benefits was about to expire. benefits to 1.5 million jobless ters of possible costs or pro­you must be ready," she said. "The last time, we were able Americans. grams, leaving that up to the The unemployment rate re­to do it very quickly, no bruis­
Martin said Bush supports discussions with Capitol HilL mains at a six-year high of 7.3 ing, no battering," Martin said. 





Viewpoint 
Thursday, April 9, 1992 Page 9 



P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor .....................• David Kinney Advertising Manager ........Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor ......•.... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ..Anna Marie Tabo r Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
Former GSU President bids fond farewell
Faculty input ignored by the ND administration 
DOONESBURY 
f)(} Y()() THINK ITWOUW BeFAIR IF 5UCH ~P/'30{l{35 FROM )f}(JR REClJR!? A5 GOVt~?NDR. wm R.LV5W PAil-Y BY TH& '"'-._ ~--­
CUN7DNC4M­PA16N5TAFH 

NO, NO, Ht'SA l.fJWN­
JC&R.' 
I 
Dear Editor: 
The procedures for faculty participation in University gov­ernance at Notre Dame weren't worth a thimble of warm spit the day they were written 25 years ago, and they're still not. Notre Dame is not now, and never has been, the place to come to teach if you think that faculty should have a role in strategic planning and budget­ing. 
If we advertised that point when we publicize faculty open­ings it would attract a distinct subset of the professoriate. "Come to Notre Dame and just teach and do your research. Make a name for yourself and move on." The fact is that not even the "made men" among the faculty have a clue how the budget is comprised. Of course, it would (not!) wreck our 
The debate at the April 7th meeting of the Faculty Senate, in its public proportions, in­cluded one remarkable piece of news, Monk consulted with the officers of the University (front page of your campus phone book) before vetoing the proportionally and standing committee resolution the Academic Council has passed by nearly two-thirds majority, and the officers supported the decision and would not now support its reversal! 
The debate also included one insightful editorial comment, "Secrecy and hierarchical ma­nipulation are not essential" to the Catholic character of any­thing." 
Senators, do your duty on April22nd. 
Edward Manier Professor of Philosophy 

BJV/3I?NOR BROIAIN, 
ISN17Htl<t~ 
fJIJ.NGeR IN c.t:N5TANTtY ATTACJ<ING GOV&I?NOI<. C/...INTON ON THt Cf!AI<­
~~..._ACTER.1'3SiJU 
\ 
AFT&RAU-, Ya.JHAV& SIMilAR ca.rT/?()vtf<­51£73/N YOUI<PA% 
/JK& TH~ FAVar<s 'IW AUIJ6&1XY PIP FOR A 
MAJ~ OREANIZW­
C!?JM& R6UReWHO CONT/?JBU7W 70 Y()(}R CA+fPA/GN.., 

Catholic character if they did. AprilS, 1992 
Dear Editor: 
First, I would like to say that it has been an honor and a pleasure to serve the graduate student community as GSU President over the past year. It has been frustrating yet excit­ing and satisfying, and I par­ticularly value the opportunities I have had to meet many more people than I might have otherwise. I think we made headway on some issues which are vital to graduate students, and while we may have stum­bled at times, I hope you feel, as I do, that the past year has been a fruitful one. 
I would like to address some issues which came up during the course of the campaign. First, in my opinion, The Observer did a very poor and unprofessional job of covering the elections. The article on the open forum with the candidates was, in a number of instances, factually incorrect and distorted. 
First, my running mate was Patrick McKinlay. Second, the current stipend for GSU President is $1400 not $4000, as was reported. Third, a couple of times, it was reported that I agreed with my opponent on an issue, making it sound like I was on the defensive and just agreeing with whatever he said, when frequently during the forum he put forth as part of his platform issues on which I had already been working this year. 
The most egregious breach of journalistic ethics occurred when The Observer printed my opponent's letter, which made a number of unsubstantiated at­tacks on me and my adminis­tration, the day before the election. The Observer was asked to print both of the can-dictates' statements. However, it backed out on this and, first, said that it could only print them if they were in the form of a paid advertisement. 

However, it then said that it would print excerpts from the statements. In the end, The Observer did not even do this, but instead printed an attack letter from my opponent with­out giving me time to respond. This was irresponsible to the point of negligence. 
Finally, I would like to clear up some misconceptions which were put forth in my opponent's letter and in subsequent campaign literature. First, he has made the assertion a num­ber of times that administrative costs comprise 51 percent of the GSU budget. This is an outright lie. 
He said he calculated this by not including the Travel Grant Fupd, which is part of the bud­get and which, in fact, is the largest single item within the budget, comprising more than one third of total expenditures and reserves. He alleges that I spent all of my time trying to reform Du Lac, and that I did not do anything substantive during my time in office. While my administration did spend a little time trying to get the University administration to stop treating us like children, which did include work on Du Lac, this certainly was not my focus. 
He states, for example, that while the Quality of Life Committee did work on the is­sue of day care and presented a report to the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees, I have "not been ag­gressive enough in trying to de­vise a set of solutions to present to the Administration." 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
If he was familiar at all with the work that we have done, he would know that the report to the Trustees did include a very specific and reasonable pro­posal for child care on campus, and that the Trustee committee supported our proposal and said that they would communi­cate their support to the Administration. In fact, we have already had a provisional offer of space from another sector of the University. 
Also, he seemed to think that we did nothing on the issue of health insurance. While there are definite problems with the current policy available to graduate students, I do not un­derstand why, as an interim measure, getting a subsidy for married student health insur­ance is such a bad thing. 
It would, of course, be ideal for all graduate students to have a much better health in­surance policy provided, to a large extent, by the University. However, this will take a pro­cess of education of the Administration (and I think we have had a few successes in this regard so far), and I wonder where my opponent thinks this money will come from. 
I hope the above does not sound like sour grapes; it is not meant to. I am sure that some people voted for my opponent because either they thought he would do a good job or were unhappy with my tenure. However, I am also sure that the lies and misinformation that he spread did not help my election chances, either, and those who voted for my oppo­nent on the basis of this deserve to know the truth. 
Kurt Mills Outgoing GSU President April 6, 1992 

'I would have made a good Pope.' 
Richard M. Nixon 

Electrical activity in the brain? submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint
Page 10 Thursday, April 9, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Candidate elect apologizes for campaign ND must help preserve 
Dear Editor: ceived more votes in Alumni Rest assured, Dave, that I will I would like to take a moment than from the rest of the Quad engage myself in my capacity as American Catholicism 
to apologize to Dave Certo for combined. Student Senator with all the de­my absent mindedness during Moreso, I would like to apol­termination and enthusiasm the past campaign. I am sorry ogize to the residents of Alumni, that was present in my cam­for accidentally covering three who were offended by my paign. As I am sure you know, of your posters hung on the placement of campaign ma­my only goal is to represent my private bulletin boards of terials on their bulletin boards. fellow students' needs, wants Alumni residents. However, I I regret not asking them for and concerns. am comforted, as I am sure you their permission, but hope that Tyler Farmer are, by the fact that my actions they will realize that I was only Student Senator Elect did not hinder your campaign. attempting to inform them of District One This is dearly shown as you re-my candidacy. March 28, 1992 
Abortion is a holocaust deserving protest 
Dear Editor: ing by the educated doctors nation which now blinds so 
Sharon Miller highlighted the themselves. many good people into believing Keen twins' use of the word This reality is enough to over­that we can be the arbiters of a Truth on which their lecture shadow any other rhetoric or person's right to live or die, was based as well as their "opinions." Since when is the judges of whether or not their "sensationalistic" tactics. Just right to live, someone's opinion, being is valuable and worthy of for the sake of furthering the an issue to argue over tea, or life. abortion "issue," (a term which some static topic for a meeting The terrifying lesson that the trivializes the life at stake over in which academic conventions Nazis and their extermination which we are arguing) to "a are imposed? No, to call such a of not only the Jews but hun­higher level of dialogue" matter of life and death an dreds of thousands of asylum (Miller's words). let us allow "issue" or a topic for intellec­inmates (in the asylums for that showing the reality of tual stimulation is to commit various reasons ranging from abortion is alarming, grotesque the ultimate kind of trivializa­simple physical handicap to and quite uncomfortable to tion of life. psychological problems to men­witness, therefore, We need to have the life in the tal handicap) not only is being "sensationalistic." first place in order to improve forgotten, it is being re-enacted 
As Sharon points out, for its quality. To kill should never only a little over fifty years after many people the sight of blood be "done out of necessity." And the fact. even in the context of a live if killing is being "done out of Our country is allowing for the birth can be revolting. necessity" than the root prob­pursuit of eugenics to lead us in Nevertheless, the fight for life lem that such murder manifests a reign of death. Will we does not need to stand on the will never go away until the continue, in the name of higher sensationalistic tactics or even killing stops and the problem is intellect, to allow this highly devotional or "God-ori­unmasked. Abortion must be "Thanatos Syndrome" to con­ented" language. It can stand stopped in order for the quality tinue? It is a matter of Life or on the mere fact that we are of life to improve for all of us Death. imposing our values, sense of who were conceived and hold Elsa Scheidler worth and final judgment and life as sacred. President of NO Rt. to Life condemnation to death on a The degredation of human life Farley Hall living human being-acknowl­that abortion promotes has April 7, 1992 edged to be a living human be-contaminated the fiber of our 
Thursday's Verse 
Soaked Socks at the Barbeque 
Morning dew soaks, stains socks green Flash of flame singes my eyebrows as Uncle Ralph engulfs raw, red ground chuck in Lighter fluid, sooty coal, and used matches Tearing at flesh burned by sun's brilliance Mosquitoes rovel in the feast under cloudless blue sky Cringing in hollow, biting wind Buttoning frayal overcoat 
Longing for summer ecstasy by Jeff Sokolowski Fisher Hall 
Sonnet II 
When last I crept as souls were dead and I, should I disturb them, faced unhappy fate, When thus I floated noiseless 'neath the sky, I, sharpened shadow with unnerving gait 
didst them observe a thought_pass o'er my mind, a single movement in my dullbone pate whose slogging through my mudbrain gave unkind and sullen purpose to my waking state 
'Tis meet that then should musled all uncoil and with it, bear the thought to thought's own end as, in repose, a pilgrim's perfect toil doth bear its own release, and back again. 
Delivered thus I fast did req_uaint my brain with slumber, liqmd thoughts to paint 
by Thomas Nevins St. Edward's Hall 


Rick Acker 
In My Opinion 

"The largest Protestant denomination America is the American Catholic Church." This off the record comment, made recently by one of the Pope's more conservative appointees, deserves serious consideration. Indeed, many American Catholics are in danger of losing not only their Catholicity, but their Christianity as well. As David Lutz pointed out in his insightful article "Can Notre Dame Be Saved?" (Wednesday, March 25), this danger also threatens our University. This is particularly disturbing be­cause of the important role Notre Dame has historically played in American Catholicism. 
According to several Gallup surveys conducted over the past few years, American Catholics disagree with Rome on most major religious issues. In direct contradiction to Catholic teachings, a strong majority of American Catholics believe that abortion should be legal; that divorce, contraception, and ac­tive homosexuality are morally permissible, absolute moral law; and that priests should be allowed to marry. 
Moreover, American Catholics not only disagree with the Vatican, but disobey it. Senators Joseph Biden and Edward Kennedy, for instance, have repeatedly proudly pro­claimed that they and other "good Catholics" are active in the "fight to protect a woman's right to have an abortion." A majority of married American Catholics under the age of fifty admit to having regularly used birth control at some point in the last ten years. Divorce and abortion are quickly becoming as common among Catholics as among other Americans. 
In short, many, perhaps most, American Catholics are so at odds with their own church that they can only be described as Protestants. Being a Protestant myself, I find nothing wrong with many of the beliefs and actions discussed above. I do, however, see a serious problem 
with  combining  nominal  
Catholicism  with  de  facto  
Protestantism.  

If these "Catholics" were honest and committed Christians, one of two tings would happen: (1) They would, like Martin Luther, openly acknowledge the deep chasm separating them from Rome and leave the Catholic Church, or (2) confess their heresy, submit to the authority of the Vatican, and work within the church for positive change. Since most of these "Catholics" are unwilling to do either, one is left with no choice but to conclude that their faith is less important to them than the pain of making an unpleasant decision. In other words, it is not only their Catholicity, but their Christianity, which is in serious danger. 
The Catholic Church in America now stands like the proverbial mighty oak; vast and unharmed by outside attack, but rotting from within. The last time Catholicism was faced by this threat was during the Reformation in the late six­teenth century. Then the church responded by perform­ing painful self-surgery to cut out the disease that was killing it. These reforms would have almost certainly failed if they had not won the vigorous sup­port of the Catholic seminars and universities. Today, as Mr. Lutz inescapably demonstrates, Catholic universities such as Notre Dame are in the same danger as the church body. As he points out, "If Notre Dame is indeed a Catholic university, there should be no hesitation on the part of its leaders to state that moral truth is not a matter of individual taste, that the teaching of the Roman Catholic Church will not be compromised on the Notre Dame campus, and that anyone not interested in teaching at a Christian university should teach elsewhere." If renowned American bastions of Catholicism like Notre Dame are unable or unwilling to fight the dangers threatening American Catholics, who will? 
One final point; I do not mean to imply that we Protestants and our schools are any better. The mainline Protestant denominations are, if anything, in worse trouble. The clergy of the Catholic Church are gener­ally more committed to the teachings of Christianity in general and their denomination in particular than most of the Protestant counterparts. For instance, the E.L.C.A., the largest Lutheran synod in America, recently spent hun­dreds of thousands of dollars reprinting all its hymnals to remove gender bias. The gov­erning body of the church was apparently more interested in removing sexist pronouns from the liturgy than in feeding the hungry or preaching the gospel. I recently left the E.L.C.A. over incidents like this that indicated that the clergy and govern<;>rs of the church were more inter­ested in pursuing political and social goals than in doing Christ's work. The Catholic hierarchy has, to its credit, generally refused to subordi­nate central Christian themes to the pursuit of its political goals. 
In short, the real danger is not the "the largest Protestant denomination in America is the American Catholic Church," but rather that it may no longer be a true church at all. Moreover, Notre Dame and other Catholic universities are affected by the same problems as the church body and may not be much as­sistance in helping restore the Catholicity and, more impor­tantly, the Christianity to American Catholicism before it's too late. 
Rick Acker is a third year student in the Notre Dame Law School and is an occasional writer for the Observer. 
Viewpoint

Thursday, April 9, 1992 Page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
uer American market' 
Dear Editor: ologies and values. However, if 
I am writing in response to a global leadership switches to lecture I attended Saturday, Japan in the next 20-30 years March 21, entitled, "The Second as Professor Cummings and Coming of the US/Japanese many other so-called experts Conflict" by Professor seem to believe, it would be a Cummings of the University of dire catastrophe because Japan Chicago. His underlying has repeatedly shown that in premise was that "the Cold War the economic and political is over. Japan won" and that spheres that it cares only about the recent spate of so-called Japan. "Japanese-bashing" is simply e same se •~u~ov•J• a 1>U<11>>~Ua.> This is greatly emphasized in an American reaction to their Japan. Steel, cement, typewrit­book! He also did not believe company my father works for, the RPI professor's analysis. own declining power. ers, mini-vans and dozens of that such incidents were indica­Kwik Kopy, immediately can­Their vast cultural and ideolog­
He compared the current USA other products have also been tive of what was really going on celled a $50 million order for ical differences which exist be­vs. Japan position to that of dumped in large quantities. in the world. Toshiba products. How has tween Japan and the United Britain vs. USA in the 1920's In the early 70's, MITI tar­Professor Cummings' com-· South Africa been able to defy States are correctly detailed in and pronounced that we had geted Silicon Va1ley and the parison of the current world si­the West and its sanctions for The Japanese Conspiracy and 20-30 years of global preemi­semi-conductor industry. After tuation with that of the 1920's nearly 30 years? A large part The Chrysanthemum and the nence left. He finished by deny­establishing a huge zaibatsu looks good on the surface, but of the answer is that for every Bat. Currently, the world seems ing that Japanese trade prac­and closing their home market doesn't hold up to close US/European company that to want American leadership tices and designs were either to foreigners, the Japanese be­scrutiny. In the 1920's, the pulled out of South Africa, nu­yet at the same time un­similar or different from what gan constructing their RAM Harding . and Coolidge merous Japanese companies dermines its ability economi­anyone else was doing. This is chips. In 1980, they began Administrations were not have moved in and Japan is cally to be that leader. Such a the usual media/academia in­dumping millions of 16K RAMs working in close coordination now South Africa's largest contradiction cannot persist for terpretation. in America, crippling Silicon with big businesses planning trading partner. long and if Japan fills the power 
Here is the truth about what Valley. the destruction of British in­Consequently, the Japanese vacuum, we will all regret it. is going on in the world. For Then, a year later, when dustry. have been declared "white" in Why hasn't Japan been pun­more than 30 years, the Japan introduced the 64K RAM, They were definitely not pro­South Africa. If Japan had been ished and reprimanded by our Japanese government and in­the Americans were too viding illegal subsidies, interest­at the head of the coalition, government? Maybe a large dustry have worked in collusion bankrupt to respond and the free loans, shared R & D, or Saddam Hussein would control part of the answer lies in the to plan and execute their eco­Japanese had taken over the vi­many of the other favorable 40 percent of the world's oil and book Agents of Influence which nomic assault and conquest of tal semi-conductor field. It regulations currently enjoyed they would be happily paying tells of the shocking IJ'OWer the world. particularly the greatly helps when your entire by the large Japanese manufac­$50 per barrel. wielded by the Japanese lobby, United States. investment is underwritten by turers. Both Britain and the Last June, a Rensselaer the largest of all lobbies, over 
Their success has been the Japanese government. USA had similar economic sys­Polytechnic Institute (RPI) pro­our government. In 1989, frightening. The entire process Also, in the early 70's, MITI tems, attempting to separate fessor wrote an on-target anal­Japan spent $435 million lob­is tightly controlled by the targeted the machine-tool in­business and government as ysis of the Japanese calling bying our Congress ($1 million Ministry of International Trade dustry and began organizing much as possible. them "racist, immoral, greedy, per member of the House) and and Industry (MITI), the archi­large-scale gambling in motor­But Mr. Wolf in his book ac­and willing to do anything to yet it is illegal for foreigners to tects of the Japanese "Miracle." cycle races in order to finance curately describes the Japanese become itichiban, No. 1." Sadly, lobby the Japanese Diet. First, they target a specific in­the destruction of the American methods as "economic totali­his frankness cost him his job; There's something wrong. dustry and then create a za­machine-tool industry. tarianism." Even Professor too many people are unwilling The time to act is now and I ibatsu (cartel) of the largest Due to the nearly $1 billion Cummings referred to the pre­to accept the truth. The have formed the Anti-Japanese Japanese manufacturer in received in illegal subsidies by sent US-Japanese struggle as perception still persists that the Coalition (AJC) in order to in­order to share research and Japanese firms, American com­"entrepreneurism vs. state-cor­Japanese are just a bunch of form people of what's really development (R & D) and to fix panies began to go out of busi­porate capitalism -also known nice guys that work hard: the going on and to encourage ev­prices. ness, but one of them, as fascism." reality is that they are an eryone to "Be American, Buy 
Next, MITI secures their Howdaille, conducted a massive economic campaign to American." We must first stop home market with an elaborate investigation which unearthed Paraphrasing Calvin Coolidge, undermine the industrial poten­believing that it's all our fault series of visible and invisible these Japanese crimes. "The business of Japan is busi­tial of the United States and to and that they just work harder trade barriers so as to ward off However, the Japanese gov­ness." Business considerations conquer the American market. than us and follow Mr. Wolf's any foreign competition. After ernment put tremendous pres­in Japan completely outweigh Military phrases such as these advtce for "How to Deal with the necessary technology is sure on President Reagan and all other factors even those of are exactly those used by the the Japanese Conspiracy." produced, MITI then launches he turned down Howdaille's politics and global responsibil­Japanese: it is not for nothing Or we can all blindly believe their economic offensive, petition for restriction against ity. In Japan there are no that the company slogan of the the book The New Masters "dumping," selling a product for Japanese machine-tool manu­unions and strikes are not al­world's second largest which asserts that it is too late less than it costs you to make it facturers. lowed. Both would be very bad construction equipment for America and the West, that in order to gain market share, All of these and numerous for business. In 1987, it was manufacturer, Komatsu, is a future of Japanese hegemony has been one of their favorite other sickening incidents are revealed that Toshiba had sold "Encircle Caterpillar (No. 1)." is only a matter of time. Let us techniques. described in detail in the book millions of dollars in sophisti­The transference of global hope it is not right for your fu­
A cartel known as the 1Oth The Japanese Conspiracy by cated submarine propellor leadership from Britain to the ture and mine. Day Group dumped hundreds of Marvin J. Wolf. I asked technology to the USSR. United States which occurred in thousands of TV's in America Professor Cummings if he had The results of this have been the 1940's was not earthshat­Jeffrey O'Donnell from 1964-79 and then re­read the book and he replied the ultra-quiet Akuba and tering. Both nations had simi­Grace Hall couped their losses by doubling that he had see the reviews and Sierra class submarines. lar backgrounds, cultures, ide-March 27, 1992 
The new Church of Loretto will not change the old ways of worship 
Dear Editor: with a view of one another as tle to do with the present con­incarnate, enfleshed, personal our breath. An alive faith lets 
well as the priest, altar and figuration of the Church. What God. go and welcomes movement 
For some time now I have felt elements (bread and wine) en­made those times so great was I realize that Church and and change. the need to write a letter in courages this inclusive under­the spirit of those who had churches, religion and rituals There is room for everyone in support of those who have been standing of our relat onship assembled. My feeling is that are highly charged issues. I am, our Church, we don't have to involved in the renovation of the with God. the spirit of joy and together­I think, sensitive to the signifi­have uniformity to have unity. Church of Loretto. The piece in As Bellah, et al., have pointed ness so appropriate at any cance that these carry for peo­There should be places of wor­the March 30 issue of The out in their work Habits or the Eucharist could only be en­ple, but I am also saddened by ship that appeal to Observer urging people to write Heart, our culture is character­hanced by the proposed the theology of church and everyone-the new Church of to Bishop D'Arcy to protest the ized by individualism. The changes. Eucharist that is revealed in the Loretto will offer an alternative renovation was the straw that Church is a corrective to that objection to the Loretto renova­to those who desire a more moved me beyond good tendency; our worship needs to It is important to remember tion. Faith, and its expression in personal form of worship. I, for intentions. reflect and to strength on the that the first Mass was a meal liturgy, needs to be dynamic one, am for it. 
First of all, I write as one who truth of our togetherness. with friends around a table and because the God we celebrate is knows the individuals who Those involved in the renova­that the Eucharist remained a alive. To resist change that is Father Tom Stella, C.S.C. comprise the renovation com­tion are people who know of literal meal in the early stages consistent with a fuller under­Campus Ministry mittee. They have been vilified what they speak. They know of Christianity. We have come in some of the articles and let­and value the traditions of our far from the spirit of the early ters that have appeared in this Church as well as its latest di­Church in this and other mat­publication. I know them to be rectives on liturgy. They are not ters. That spirit is captured in both caring and knowledgeable. iconoclasts out to destroy all small group Masses and in the 
They care about the Saint that is holy, they are trying to "base communities" that are Mary's/Notre Dame faith com­help us recognize what is truly forming in many parts of this munity. It matters to them that holy-the family of God-by country and the world. we have the opportunity to making architectural changes The crowds that assemble for worship in places and ways that that can serve to sharpen our Sunday Mass make it difficult to help us to recognize the focus so that we can see the feel the personal warmth that connection or better, the com­connection I refer to above. must have characterized those munion that is celebrated at the I am writing also as one who early gatherings, so I applaud Eucharist. It is a communion has presided at The Eucharist any effort that attempts to not just of a private "God and in Loretto many times. Parent highlight the human/personal me" nature, but a public and weekend liturgies and weddings dimension of the celebration of communal togetherness in God. stand out in my mind as won­our faith which, if it is a Worshipping "in the round," derful experiences that had lit-Christian faith, is belief in an 

Accent 
page 12 Thursday, April 9, 1992 




• 

azz 

34th annual Collegiate Jazz Festival attracts famous judges and quality bands 
By CHRIS SEELEN Severinson, Dizzie Gillespie, that the festival is a "non­Maynard Ferguson and competitive" one, in which
AND JENNIFER GUERIN 

Wynton Marsalis. bands play for "the
Accent Writers 

.. Restrained by a limited enjoyment of the audience, Contrary to popular belief, budget, the committee is the other bands, and for the not only dorm room stereos sometimes forced to positive criticism of the will provide quality musical eliminate certain per­judges." The committee, entertainment this weekend. sonalities from the list. however, does honor two or Everyone, even the jazz The judges are paid for three groups and select illiterate, can attend the their time, and the individuals as outstanding 34th annual University of committee provides their musicians. Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz transportation and During the fall, collegiate Festival at the Stepan Center accommodations. jazz bands across the April 10 and 11. The students on the country were contacted and Coordinated by a committe committee contact the asked to submit a tape for of students, the Collegiate agents of jazz personalities the committee to review. In Jazz Festival is the best kept throughout the nation, February, the committee secret on campus. Started assembling a panel with extended 15. invitations to in 1959, the Jazz Festival is various musical credentials play at the Festival. the oldest collegiate festival and talents. This year, reputable bands of its kind and arguably the This year's six judges will from Michigan State, finest. be Dan Morgenstern Uazz Purdue, M.I.T. and North critic); James Williams Texas will be among the According to Karl Sheidt, (piano); Ed Thigpen (drums); participants. publicity director of this John Clayton, Jr. (bass); Lew year's student committee, Tabackin (saxophone, flute); The Jazz Festival began in collegiate jazz bands and Bill Watrous 1959, as a small get together consider the festival "an (trombone). One of the at the Fieldhouse Mall, "by a opportunity to exhibit their highlights of the festival will group of students looking for Wiskirchen. Wiskirchen, "even a violin." talents in front of a large be the "Judges' Jam" on some kind of entertainment Since that time, the Scheidt commented on the audience, and possibly 'get Friday night. between Mardi Gras [a festival has grown appearance of "combos" at discovered' by the judges." Father George Wiskirchen, campus-wide dance that continuously in size and sup­the festival. These smaller, Past judges include advisor for the student Jazz used to be held at Notre port. "bare bones" groups celebrities like Doc Festival committee, stressed Dame] and Easter,." said Amazingly, it has generally consist of piano, remained relatively percussion, bass, and a undiscovered by students. quartet of varying instru­Karl Scheidt commented ments. In combos, he said, that in the past, the majority the "musicality of the of the audience has not been players really shows from campus, but from the through" because of the South Bend community. stress on improvisation. Scheidt and the rest of the committee hope that student Student tickets for the turnout will increase this Collegiate Jazz Festival are year. "It's something people available in advance at the should go to once ... even if LaFortune Information they don't know if they like Desk, or at the door. The jazz," said Scheidt. "Try. cost is $4 for Friday night, something different." starting at 7:30. The "Judges' Jam" will be held Bands use instruments at 11:30. such as trombones, There will be two sessions trumpets, pianos, drums and on Saturday. Tickets for the saxophones to produce the afternoon session, which will unique and diverse sound begin at 1:00, are $2. The that is jazz. Synthesizers, festival will reopen at 7:30 and harps have also been p.m. with tickets costing $3. used in previous festivals. A $7 ticket is available "We'd allow any instrument which guarantees admission that plays jazz," said to all three sessions. 


'Dance and More' showcases Saint Marv•s artists 
By AMY BENNETI 
Assistant SMC Editor 
"Dance and More" is an un­derstatement when one considers that Hula-Hoops, fiber body sculptures, and rock music are used as the backdrops for this collage of dance pieces. 
The Saint Mary's College Department of Communication, Dance and Theatre will present "Dance and More" Thursday, April 9; Saturday, April 11; and Sunday, April 12 in Uttle Theatre. 
The concert features choreography by Assistant Professor of Communication, Dance, and Theatre Indi Dieckgrafe; department lecturer Julia Mayer McCarthy, and guest artist Hollis Johnson. 
Dieckgrafe, Mayer McCarthy, and Johnson will be performing, as well as members of one of Dieckgrafe's classes. 15 Saint Mary's students and five Notre Dame students will be performing. 
Some of the students also helped in the choreography. "We like for the stu-. dents to have a chance to choreograph and here they can show their work," Dieckgrafe says. 
The concert consists of eleven separate pieces. A diverse combination of music has been selected, including Cole Porter variations, French folk songs, and a piece by Jane's Addiction. 
Although many different dance styles are represented, Dieckgrafe says that the concert has a modern influence. "It really is a modern dance concert," she says. "The opening piece is a little balletic, but none of the dancers wear shoes." 

The dancers have been preparing since early December, according to Dieckgrafe. "Because we're creating the works, the process takes a little longer than if we were to pick up a pre-written script," she says. 
Dieckgrafe choreographed a piece entitled "What's Left?" that deals with environmental issues. "I don't want to dance a fairy tale," she says of the piece's rejection of classical ballet. "It's 1992. There are too many other things to do." 
Dieckgrafe stresses that every work evolves in a unique way. "With the energy and commitment involved in what we do, we're really creating works of art," she says. 
Each piece of choreography in "Dance and More" has its own theme, according to Dieckgrafe. "I there's something here for everybody. I hope it will make people think," she says. 
Tickets for "Dance and More" are priced at $6 for general admission, $5 for students and senior citizens, and $3 for Saint Mary's students, and are available at the Saint Mary's box office in O'Laughlin auditorium. The office is open between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Charge card orders are accepted by phone at (219) 284-4626. 
-

The Observer page 13 
Thursday, April 9, 1992 
Toronto tops Detroit despite two homers from Fielder 
(AP) -Cecil Fielder's two home runs and six RBis weren't enough to overcome homers by Roberto Alomar and Pat Borders as Toronto outlasted Detroit. 
Fielder, who hit 51 home runs in 1990 and 44 more last year, hit his second and third homers and matched his career-high with the six runs batted in. 
Neither starter lasted long. Detroit's Frank Tanana (0-1) yielded five runs on four hits in two innings. Todd Stottlemyre gave up five runs on four hits and seven walks in 4 1-3 in­nings. 
Brewers 9, 1\vins 5 
B.J. Surhoff hit the first grand slam of the season, a two-out shot in the ninth inning off Minnesota relief ace Rick Aguilera to give Milwaukee the victory. 
The 1\vins also lost left fielder Shane Mack when he was hit in the head by a pitch from reliever Mike Fetters in the sixth, one inning after hitting a two-run homer. 
Paul Molitor's two-out RBI single off Aguilera (0-1) tied the game before Surhoff hit a 2-1 pitch over the right-field fence for his second career grand slam, giving Bruce Ruffin (1-0) his first American League win. 
Indians 4, Orioles 0 
Paul Sorrento hit the first 
homer at Baltimore's new ball­
park, a three-run shot that 
helped Cleveland win the inau­gural night game at Oriole Park at Camden Yards. 
Sorrento hit a drive off Bob Milacki (0-1) in the first inning that barely made it into the left­field seats for the historic homer. Mark Lewis added his first big-league homer in the fifth for the Indians. 
Cardinals 15, Mets 7 
Brian Jordan, baseball's latest two-sport star, had two hits and four RBis in his major league debut as St. Louis routed New York. 
The production of Jordan, who's the starting strong safety for the Atlanta Falcons and was a Pro Bowl alternate last year, helped make up for the fact the Cardinals were missing three injured starters. 

Pedro Guerrero drove in three runs and Ozzie Smith, Todd Zeile and Tom Pagnozzi added two RBis apiece for St. Louis, which has taken two of three from the revamped Mets. The Cardinals battered Bret Saberhagen 9-2 on Tuesday. 
Padres 2, Reds 1 The San Diego Padres have . crashed the coronation. 
They came to Cincinnati to open the season with a three­game series against the power­ful Reds. They heard the gloomy predictions. 
Andy Benes helped prove them very wrong Wednesday. He pitched seven shutout in­nings and drove in a run with a squeeze bunt for a 2-1 victory and 2-1 advantage in the series. 
Benes shut them down for another day in a manner remi­niscent of his second half of 1991. 
The right-hander picked up where he left off last year, when he went 11-1 in his last 15 starts. He faced the minimum 15 batters in the first five innings Wednesday and scat­tered six hits in seven-plus in­nings. 
Benes left after giving up a leadoff triple to Hal Morris in the eighth. Randy Myers let him score with a wild pitch, then closed the game for his second save against his former team­mates. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline far next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO., INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. CAP 'N'CORK JOANNEJEN: FOR LARGE 4-BEDROOM, Good rates. Save Money. Call me You are admired by 
I I 

NOTICES WANTED 
FURNISHED HOUSE. COMPLETE for a quote 9:30-6:00, NW CORNER OF LASALLE & The Transpo Guy, 
L------------' We are looking for a mature and SECURITY SYSTEM, WASHER & 289-1993. Office near campus. NILES...JUST PAST SPAGETII And loved by every 05/15 dependable student to babysit our DRYER, 9-MO. LEASE. DEPOSIT. WORKS Party girl in 4B. WORD PROCESSING newborn for 30 to 40 hours a week, 259-7801 OR 255-5852. You should be with us, feeling like We'll just forget you said, 256-6657 in our home, starting May 18th. we do ... CAP 'N' CORK "What's a sted?" 
Experience preferred; personal or 6 BEDROOM HOME. WALK TO HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY!! $$FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-Sat academic references accepted and CAMPUS.FURNISHED.272-6306 Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award CAP 'N' CORK Pandora's Books salary negotiable. Please call us at Winning Hotel, has rooms for THOUGHT OF DAY GRADUATION TICKETS: corner of ND ave & Howard 287-3297. FOR RENT: 515 W. Marion; roomy Graduation weekend. Located at reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday 3-story house, ample parking, Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart CONSIDERING $18,000, If you have any extra, PLEASE call 
Need a ride to Vanderbilt any security, close to ND. 272-5509. (12 miles from South Bend) DART REALLY SUCKS Kristie, #2535. LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes weekend. Will help with expenses, Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 every Sat. and Sun. at 8:00 AM. etc. ROOM FOR RENT. deposit per room. Send letter with CAP 'N'CORK Look, WOLF! It works! Here's your Train and jump the same day. Call Rich@ X1695 Privacy, garage, cable, utilities incl., deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd., personal, as promised. Next time I'll Modern equipment and training wash/dryer. Nice home-must see. Elkhart, IN 46514. NEED A RIDE within 200 miles of try for a more creative message, so programs. Licensed instructors. Even though MR. BUSH is speaking 291-9093. VIRGINIA TECH in BLACKSBURG, keep reading your trusty FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) at graduation, my aunt still wants to NEED 2 Tickets for Graduation VA FOR EASTER BREAK! $$ Observer-You never know when 948-2665. come. Please help her out;Sell me a SUMMER SUBLET!!! please call Neal at 283-1159 WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS$$ Call your name may appear. 
graduation ticket. Call x4233 Turtle Creek-2 bdrm townhouse. LISA at X2621 DOS User's Meeting Rent negotiable. Kevin Carroll is a God Thurs. April 9 at 7:_QOpm Wanted: Jobs Call Teri or Laney x4829 Custom-made hey nil Room G015B of the CCMB -The Senior Cl<jss HAIR-BOWS Attention '92-'93 Holy Cross Hall Come for the software raffle! STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Residents: 
SENIORS: Classy, furnished APARTMENT for by Lynn and Sally Info on semester, year, graduate, TYPING AVAILABLE '88 ND Grad is directing an office in SUMMER. Perfect for 2-4. summer and internship programs in · Vote Ann Merorella-President 287-4082. Las Vegas for a national, publicly­Rent·cheap/negotiable call x2764 Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Jen Rasmussen-Vice President 
held company. I'm not interested in Call Today!!: 273-9111 Melbourne. Programs start at Marcie Thorson-Secretary Typing your degree. I'm looking for a hard -various materials, designs $3520. Call1-800-878-3696. Beth Goodwin-Treasurer Pickup & Delivery worker who wants a career and colors available­277-7406 opportunity. Call702-647-0017 from 2 Bdrms. NOW; 3 available in June, The Lizard King lives on! Down with For Holy Cross Hall Officers on 
10-4. Ask for John. summer school. $200/mo. Use of all the Crustaceans! Tuesday, April 14th. facilities. Close to campus, safe PORT-A-PIT CHICKEN & RIBS 
SUMMER LIVE-IN neighborhood. 232-2794. Saturday, April 25, (Blue-Gold to the athletic dept.: Just slip out the back, Jack NANNY POS AVAIL Game Day), at St. Joseph's High your time is gonna come Make a new plan, Stan 
ILOST & FOUND I 
.... 

Still lost! Petite green women's MILWAUKEE School. -led zeppelin Don't need to be coy, Roy class ring. Inside reads "ACS '93". X2613 FOR SALE Help the parents keep the kids safe Just get yourself free. Lost on St. Pat's Day. If found alter the prom. Proceeds go to Heading for EUROPE this summer? Just hop on the bus, Gus PLEASE return to 143 Farley Hall or ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT Alumni selling PLANTS and support the Jet there anytime for $169 from the Don't need to discuss much caiiAngie at X4095. -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. FURNITURE. Jr/Sr Post-Prom Party. East Coast, $229 from the Midwest Just drop off the key, Lee 
Free transportation! Room & Board! Call Robert Smith at Advance ticket prices for Port-A-Pit (when available) with AIRHITCH! And get yourself free LOST: My favorite brown SUEDE Over 8,000 openings. No 255-1994 are $3.50/chicken, and $4/ribs. Call (Reported in Let's Go! & NY Times.) GLOVES! If found, PLEASE call experience necessary. Male or 272-3753 and leave message. For details: 
r----------,

Jen at x2650. Female. For employment program WALK TO N.D. CAMPUS! Tickets can be delivered directly to AIRHITCH(r) 212-864-2000. call Student Employment Services Charming 3 BR home to sale just you on campus. I , .r I 
• • Tbe 1

Were you at Rita's on Friday night? at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597. blocks from campus in historic Happy Birthday Joe Roberts ~ COMPtrn:R If so, and you happened to find a Harter Heights. Hardwood floors, Help Me, Please nrroR 1 
says.

watch there, please call Lisa at Turtle Creek guys need two more built-in bookshelves, fireplace, sun ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS I "Beat!MBoolcs/" 4838. The watch holds great roommates for next year. Call Brian porch. Two story w/lull basement I need graduation tickets if anyone A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS 1Learn qulclr.er. better with a penonal sentimental value. Thanks. at x3414. and walk-up attic, central air, 1600 has some they are not going to use. A BABY! Young financially secure data-base and computcr1zed crooa­
1 refen:ncea 11ght at your fWgertlpsl

square feet. Call Quinn at x2059 if you have any Catholic couple looking to adopt LOST-Need a female rider to 409 Napoleon Blvd, $79,900 info. and provide a loving home to an I·Conversion FDaors (Pbyslcs/Chem) WILSON SOFTBALL MITI ON Dallas/EI Paso alter finals ... 233-1938 infant. All Expenses paid. Please 1·n..1'ertDd.li: 'lllble (Geo Cheml 
• QuaUtaUve Analysts (Lab Chem)

THURS., 4-2. LEFT AT call Susan 284-4435 please, help me call collect (317) 364-0300 for more 
I•G~uoo~usts & TCA C!/de (Blochem)BOOKSTORE COURTS ON THE one way tic. Chcago Midway information. I•f'undWns/Strudw"es (Blo/Bot/Zool 
• CircuLar Flow Model (Macro Econ)

BLEACHERS NEAR BADIN HALL Need 1 male Lafayette Sq to Boston. "Squeeze my lemon 'til the 
1·n.. u.s. eons111ut1Dn (HisttGcwtl

I LOVE MY MITI-IT HAS GREAT 92-93 sch yr 277-6471 May 18 $150/best juice runs down my leg." THE TUTUS ARE BACK. .. I.Corr1parat1ur Reltgtons (Soc Studlesj 
SENTIMENTAL VALUE! IF YOU call Mike 277-9068 Zepfest VI 1 Selld SASE far complete catalog: cr
HAVE ANY INFO, PLEASE, Need ride to Boston for Easter. Will April9, 10 & 11 ADOPTION 
eend your name a. ad-.clisl<11121e 

PLEASE, PLEASE help with expenses. Call Manhua •ROLLERBLADES• Childless, Christian, Couple wishes I (3.5" or 5.251. a. $10.00 per IItle @239-7932(0), 283-3953(h). Discount prices. Call Larry at GET­Today is Tracy Payne's 21st to adopt. Legal and medical paid. (U.S. checlr. ar DIOIIe1 ardorl ta:
I 
D.E.D. ELECIRONIC PUBUSH1NG

CALL MARGARET •2953 IN-LINE 314-644-2005. Birthday, so if you see her, be sure Call Bill and Kathy, Collect, at 219­
I 

103061!: UVE <WtAVI!: to go and congratulate her and help 322-8187. ARCADIA CA 91007 FOUND: At Stonhenge, 1 FOR RENT her celebrate. Have a great day, I Moat Orden F1lled Within 48 Houta. groovy looking hoop earring 1974 Fiat X1-9, convertable, Tracy!! L~~'!,..~J 
with brass beads and so on...  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  red, replaced motor, 4-sp,  All ND/SMC students are cordially  
drop by 303 St. Ed's or call  219-291-7153.  restored, woman owned,  invited to the Hispanic American  
x1672  $2200 O.B.O.  LET'S GO GREYHOUND TO  Organization SYR on Friday, April  
3 Bedroom  Jim 271-1211 or 287-5713  PHILADELPHIA. $128.00 ROUND  1Oth at the Knights of Columbus.  
Lost: Blue ID case lost on 4/1  Walk to Campus  anytime  TRIP. RESTRICTIONS APPLY.  The event will take place from 9  
in the Huddle sometime between  $555 Month  287-6541.  p.m. to 1 :30 a.m. Come and enjoy  
11-12 at lunch.  232 3616  1 way ticket  all types of music. Cost is $5 for  
Contains NY license, ND id,  SBN-NEWARK  couples and $3 if you're going solo.  
Senior Bar card, money card,  COLLEGE PARK CONDOS -12  bst ofr x4070  LET'S GO GREYHOUND TO NEW  Hope to see you there.  
Detex. If found, please call  NEW UNITS-1300 sq. ft.­ YORK CITY. $116.00 ROUND  
Dee at 277-5798.  Ironwood & Bulla -2 B/R -2 Bath ­available immediately -call 287­ TICKETS  TRIP. RESTRICTIONS APPLY. 287-6541.  ••••JOE BINKIEWICZU .. Your camou's drive me wild.  
Found 3/28 a strand of pearls by  0534 or 271-9268.  Penetrate deep into the bush and  
Greenhouse behind Haggar.  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS.  Hello, Jennifer, the lovely  shoot! But, your sweatpants are still  
Call Eric x2059 to claim.  Summer sublet-Turtle Creek  Will pay ANY amount of money.  survey girl. ...  swell!  
2-bdrm, furnished 271-8466  Call JIM X1577  
LOST: SILVER LOCKET WI  Is anyone out there  ICPA is COMING, ICPA is  
ROSARY 3/4" DIAMETER: FRIDAY  SUMMER SUBLEASE CHEAP!!!  FOR SALE: chp. 1 way tick. SB  interested in studying  COMING, ICPA is COMING ...  
4/3/92 AT OR BETWEEN MAIN  Furnished Turtle Creek Townhouse  to Los Angeles. Monday, 5/18.  for our Economics 303 exam:  
CIRCLE & THE ROCKNE,  Available for summer. 2, 3, or 4  Jim x1558. ·  (Statistics) . . . ? ? ?  
ROCKNE & LAFORTUNE, &/OR  students rent negotiable. 2  Please call Cris @ X4907  THE METHA-TONES  
LAFORTUNE & MAIN CIRCLE.  bdr,2bath, pool. Call Mike/Matt  Need 1-2 grad tix. Talking big $$.  Not just a bunch of made-up  
234-8789. REWARD. EXTREME  X3414 or 3410  Ron 3315, leave message.  NEEDED:  hoodl~ms playing rock n roll-a  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE.  Graduation tickets ! I I !  bunch of made-up hoodlums with  
SUMMER SUBLET (TURTLE  GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED  for family, Please  ADVANCED DEGREES playing  
LOST: WALLET LAST THURSDAY  CREEK) 272-95401  I'm desperate! I need at least three  call Alice @ X4907  rock n roll.  
AT THE COMMONS. IF FOUND,  tickets, relatives coming from  FRI. APRIL 10 CLUB 23  
PLEASE RETURN TO JEFF  Georgia. Please call Toni at 284­ CAP 'N'CORK  
LYMAN X1171  Attractive studio's in lovely old  9346 (8-5) or 277-4320 (eve.)  Future Alums!  
Mansion 1/2 mile from ND 225­ CAP 'N' CORK  Order your "N.D. Alum"  
LOST: pair of room keys call #3577  300/Mo. plus deposit. Call 2879624 for summer and fall rentals.  PERSONAL  CAP 'N' CORK  sweatshirt now! Sara X1311 or Becky X4805  

St. Edward's 
Hall Forum 
Congressman Tim Roemer 
speaks on 
11My Hopes As A Catholic in National Politics11 
Monday April 13 7:00P.M. 
..... 


MEN'S BOOKSTORE RESULTS 
No Vaseline vs. Logan Center B, rescheduled Guys Who Could Beat Detroit Mercy d. Great Really Great Ballhandlers, 21-7 Guys who had 30 sec to think of name and couldn't del. Fitty-8, 21-9 4 Social Drinkers & Willie del. This one's lor English, 29-27 Moloko & unraviolence del. 5 Guys who are liquored-up & ticked off, 21-5 Flying Bunresses del. Heyl We Actually Bet the Deadline, 21-6 Thinker, Drinker, Talker. Scammer &B1g Guy del. Observer-2nd Coming, 21-8 1 Cheg & 4 Unemployed del. Jesus Freaks, 21-4 Hoban's Heroes del. Come Slam on Dave, 21-15 If you're soft. You've lost d. Girls Scours who picked fathers out of lineup, 21-6 In Bounds, In Range del. Just Chlllin', 21-17 3AM Eternal del. Uncut Thunder, 21-14 Dudes del. Team 651,21-9 Pfuncky Buddah del. Home Alone: lsiah Thomas Story of Olympics, 24-22 La Raza del. Odios Odds, 25-23 L Train del. Da Bums, 21-10 The Crimedogs del. Push it Along, 21-7 Boyer, Cozen & Other ND Guys who can't penetrate del We Aardvark, 21-13 
5 Guys who will come right al you del. The Hole is Easy, 21-11 ]Box In Box Out del. The Mighty Whities, 21-4 

Dr. Scholl's Crew del. Four Studs & A Guy with 2 half dollars, 21-4 
Vae Victi del. Fightin' Polish, 21-10 
No Blood No Foul del. Legion of Doom, 21-10 
Orange Juice del. Fighting Irish, 21-9 
Nuts del. all the Lannan's but Yoko, 21-12 
Hypothetical Sex del. We Administer the Shocker, 21·1 0 
The Fab 4 & 1 More del. Carpe Swimum, 21-6 
The Ironclad 5 del. Who are these Chuckers?, 21-17 

The Lionhearts del. Top 5 Reasons to Give to the United Way, 21-12 
Vegetable Eroticism del. Beertrain, 21-10 

Ducktapers del. Couldn't Think of Name ...girls would be embarrassed, 21-17 
ABC del. Tschuppers, 21·10 We Ain't No Joke del. Pooh and the Danglers, 21-5 Richochet Warriors del. Team 641, 21-13 
The Old & The Injured del. Punky Rides Again, 21·11 
All the President's Men del. What's up with That, 21-8 

5 Drumsticks & Some Gumbols del. Lipton, Nestea & 3 Other teabags, 21-11 
Common's Club def. Lafayene #10 and a Johnson, 21·18 Splitin' That del. Young Guns, 21-8 The Trolls del. First Bound Bye, 21-8 5 Guys without a Shepard to Lead Them def. Aids, Henning, Houdini .., 21-10 

2.0 =BA del. 5 Chicks in Skirts, 21-19 Mikey Likes It del. It's all Ballberrings these Days, 21·2 We Shoot like Girls del. The 112 Dozen Club, 21-10 
WOMEN'S RESULTS 
CJ's Pub· ND/SMC Squad del. Bird and the Bees, 21·7 
Fab Five del. KEM and the CC's, 21-0 
Ring My Belle II del. Clueless, 21-3 
Alabama Slammers del. Panic Hardware II, 21-1 Fighting Farley-ites del. Fwanh Fwanh Fwanh, 21-2 
EZ4U2NV del. Victims of the Flanner Grapevine, 21-2 
Please Don't Hurt Us def. New Age, 21-2 
Da Belles del. The Charenes. 21·2 
We Score Between Periods del. Two Mo's & A Few More Ho's, 21-7 
Brew Ha Ha Ha Hadel. We Haven't Plaved Since Grade School ?1-0 
MIDWEST 
STANDINGS 
BASEBALL MCC W-L XAVIER 3·1 EVANSVILLE 2·1 
COLLEGIATE CONFERENCE FALL SPORTS 
STATISTICS: BASEBALL 

TEAM H]IT]NG G AB B H 2B HB BB] SB AVG DETROIT MERCY 16 542 96 163 31 6 83 
3 .301 OVERALL BUTLER 28 764 128 215 20 3 101 28 .281 W·L XAVIER 32 1024 182 285 63 27 161 32 .278 11-21 
DAYTON 27 749 147 201 31 19 126 47 .268 EVANSVILLE 28 842 130 222 47 10 117
13-15 35 .264 

NOTRE DAME 21 663 115 169 24

DAYTON 4·4 9·18 14 95 24 .255 DETROIT MERCY 3-4 7-9 
TEAM PITCH]NG G

BUTLER 3·5 8-17 CG SHO IP BB so H B ERA 
DETROIT MERCY 16 8 NOTRE DAME 21 6 SOFTBALL MCC OVERALL EVANSVILLE 28 5 DAYTON 27 8 
NOTRE DAME 0-0 13-8 
W-L W-L 
BUTLER 25 3
BUTLER 2·0 7-14 
XAVIER 32 4
NOTRE DAME 3-1 17-13 DETROIT MERCY 5-3 12·3 LOYOLA 1·1 10-14 
SOFTBALL 
EVANSVILLE 1-3 9-20 
TEAM H]TT]NG G AB 
DAYTON 0-4 8-16 DETROIT MERCY 15 418 LOYOLA 24 621
TENN]S MCC OVERALL 
BUTLER 21 528 
W-L W-L NOTRE DAME 30 793 
BUTLER 3-0 8·5 DAYTON 24 600 
XAVIER 3-1 9-3 EVANSVILLE 29 682 
EVANSVILLE 1·2 4-14 
TEAM PJTCH]NG G CG 

SHO IP BB so H B ERANOTRE DAME 0-0 17-3 
DETROIT MERCY 15 9 7 102.0 22 60 57 13 0.34
DETROIT MERCY 0·0 2-10 NOTRE DAME 30 19 6 214.7 43 104 156 71 2.26

DAYTON 0-4 5-8 EVANSVILLE 29 25 3 197.0 60 82 178 95 2.27 LOYOLA 24 9 4 153.7 XX 109 142 68 2.28 DAYTON 24 17 154.3 56 39 166 113 2.68 


Figures as of opening day APiMartha P. Hernandez 
"graduate students only 3rd students only" period; then open 

CAPP 253 01 #1162 to all change to: MSE 611 01 #0804 College of Arts & change days/time Letters to:TII 11 :00­Sophomores only 12:15 through third MUS 503 01 #0339 period. then change time to: Freshmen only · T 11:00-11:50; 
CHEG 355 01 #1198 and change to change days/time Permission to:TH11 :00-12:15 Hequired 
CHEM321 01 #1241 MUS 525 01 #2138 changemaximum change time to: to 100 TH 09:30-10:45 
DESN 497S 04 #0520 MUS 529 01 #3781 change to change time to: Permission H 11:00-11:50 Required Pill!. 593 01 #3805 
ECON 301A 01 #3581 change days/time change days/time to: MW 12:50­to:Til 02:45-4:00 2:05 
EDUC 324 01 #8418 PLS 347 03 #4196 change to: change days/time Juniors & Seniors to: Til 11:00­only 12:15 
GOVT 342 01 #1707 ROIT 101 05 #3832 remove should not be co requisite Permission (GOVf 342T) Required 
GOVf 473 01 #4095 soc 220 01 #2621 change time to: add restriction: MW 08:40-09:55 "Ineligible if 
GOVf 491F 01 #3680 previously taken change days to: soc 122" MW 02:45-04:00 soc 300 01 #3845 
LAW 506 02 #1787 change days/time change days/time to:TH 01:15-2:30 to: MWF 10:00-soc 374 01 #3449 
10:50 <:hange time to: 

LAW 506 03 #0011 Tll11:00-12:15 change days/time soc 473 01 #4110 to:MWF1:00-1:50 change time to: 
LAW 603 01 #2992 MW 08:40-09:55 change days/time soc 592 01 #0272 to:TH 01:00-3:00 change time to: 
lAW 618 01 #1823 MW 12:50-02:05 change days/time THEO 401 01 #2662 to:S 09:00-11:50 change time to: MATH 603 01 #1934 TH 11:00-12:15 change time to: THEO 512 01 #0690 MWF11:15-12:05 change time to: MATH 613 01 #1937 Til 08:00-09:15 change time to: TIIEO 603 01 #0678 MWF 02:20-3:10 change day/time MATH651 01 #1939 to:M 01:15-03:45 change time to: THEO 681 01 #2787 MWF 09:05-9:55 change time to: 
MBA 651 01 #4127 M 10:00-12:30 is NOT Permission Courses Cancelled Required 
MGT 240 all AFAM 260 01 -#3444 restrictions CHEM 313 01 -#1240 should read: "BA ECON 443 01-#1351 students only ENGL 301A 02 · #1558 t!lJ:lrnih 3rd MARK 231 05-#1849 period; then open soc 260 01 -#3446 to all THEO 439 01 -#0693 
MGT 350-491 THEO 519 01-#4119 restrictions THEO 542 01 · #3887 should read: "Majors only thrl!.uih 2nd period;BA 
CI.OSEil SECTIONS AS EDUC 404 26 8426 LAW 633 01 2994 
3 130.3 59 88 2 178.3 78 123 1 216.0 93 187 0 191.7 128 82 1 186.1 88 94 1 251.0 153 152 
B H 2B HB 
93 118 15 1 87 172 24 2 76 101 17 5 78 185 57 6 88 136 16 0 63 130 12 1 
TIIEO 288 01 4070 TIIEO 290 01 4156 THEO 290 02 4157 
Classes that will reopen at 7:00p.m. 419/92 
AFAM 401 01 3463 ANTH 313 01 3536 ARH1 461 01 3550 ARST 133S 01 0990 COTH 325 01 3568 EE 2221' 01 1373 EE 3421. 02 1398 ENGl. 340 01 0041 ENGl. 416G 01 3608 ENGL 475A 01 3351 FIN 361 01 1607 GOVf 340T 03 3669 ME 327 01 1995 Ml 305 01 4153 MUS 220D 01 2092­MUS 221 01 2646 PIIIL 238 01 0449 PHIL 242 01 0055 PHIL 261 01 2200 PHIL 268 01 2202 PHYS 2211. 02 2234 soc 242 01 3843 soc 242 02 3844 soc 400 01 3850 SOC 400T 01 3851 THEO 224 01 0262 THEO 263 02 3876 
CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS TO DART lill!!K COURSES ADDED 
AERO 498A 01 #4169 Intro to Aeroelasticity; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 11:00-12:15 
AFAM 460 01 #4170 Appropriate Tech/3rd World; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 09:30-10:45 cross-listed with ECON 460-01, GOVf 454-01 and STV 460-01 
AMST 396 01 #4183 Canada & the U.S.: Best Friends, Uke It or Not; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 09:30-12:15; meets every other week 
AMST 437 01 #4184 Writing and Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; WF 09:05-11:50; meets every other week EE 499R 21 #4165 Undergraduate Research; var. cr. hrs. 
EE 598C 01 #4199 IC Fabrication Lab; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 02:45-~~:35 

146 83 4.01 179 109 4.24 261 156 5.33 236 192 5.54 240 174 6.76 376 282 7.67 
BB] SB AVG 
91 27 .282 73 32 .278 44 10 .263 57 11 .233 66 31 .227 58 14 .191 
EE 699R 20 #4166 Pol. Phil.; 3 cr. Hesearch & hrs.; MWF Dissertation; var. 09:05-09:55 cr. hrs. PHIL 245 01 #4189 
!liST 675 01 #4200 Medieal Ethics; 3 American cr. hrs.; MW Evalgelicalism & 12:50-02:05 Fendamentalism; PHIL 245 02 #4190 3 cr. hrs.; W Medical Ethics; 3 02:30-05:00; cr. hrs.; MW Graduate 02:20-03:35 students only PHIL 424 01 #4168 
MBA 632 01 #4180 Metaphysics; 3 Union Relations cr. hrs.; TH & CoHee. Barg.; 3 09:30-1 0:45; cr. hrs.; TH Permission 09:30-10:45 Required cross-listed with PLS 345 03 #4195 MGT 373-01 Foundations of 
ME 425 01 #4191 Christianity; 3 cr. Linear Vibration; hrs.; TH 09:30­3 cr. hrs.; MWF 10:45; Majors 01:15-02:05 only 
MLCII101 01 #4197 PLS 347 03 #4196 Beginning Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; Chinese I; 5 cr. MWF 11:15­hrs.; MTWHF 12:05; Majors 03:25-04:15 only 
MLCH 241 01 #4198 PLS 381 05 #4194 Intermediate Great Books Chinese I; 3 cr. Seminar Ill; 4 cr. hrs.; MWF 01:15-hrs.; MW 01:15­02:05 02:55; Majors 
MUS 409D01 #4171 only Chamber Music; THEO 229 02 #4167 1 cr. hr.; W01:00-Science & 01 :50;Permission Theology; 3cr. Required hrs.; TH 11:00­
MUS 412B 01 #4172 12:15 Harp; var. cr. hrs.; Permission COURSES ADDED Required WmiJ 
MUS 412D 01 #4173 Harpsicord; var. THEO 270 01 #4181 cr. hrs. Theological Permission Imagination: Required from Antiquity to 
MUS 413D01 #4174 the Present; 3 cr. Guitar; var. cr. hrs.; MW 08:30­hrs.; Permission 09:45 Required THEO 640 01 #4182 
PHIL 241 01 #4185 Hermeneutics Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; and the Theology MWF09:05-of Symbol; 3 cr. 
09:55 hrs.; T 01:15­
PHIL 241 02 #4186 03:45 Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 10:10-CHANGES 11:00 
PHIL 242 02 #4187 AMST 346 01 #0046 Basic Issues in change days/time Pol. Phil.; 3 cr. to: TH 02:45­hrs.; MWF 09:05 04:00 09:55 ANTH 375 01 #3450 
PHIL 242 03 #4188 change time to: Basic Issues in TH 11:00-12:15 Pol. Phil.; 3 cr. BIOS 201L 04 #3893 hrs.; MWF 11:15-change credit 
12:15 hours to 1.0 
PHIL 242 04 #4192 BIOS 344L all sections Basic Issues in change Pol. Phil.; 3 cr. restrictions to: hrs.; MWF 08:00-BIOS 344 or 421 
08:50 pre/co requisite 
PHIL 242 05 #4193 BIOS 527 01 #3994 Basic Issues in remove 
-
-
-
Of 7:011 P.M. 4/8/92 EDUC 4401. 30 8430 LAW 652A 01 0535 
EDUC 452 42 8442 LAW 695 03 1841 ACCT 334 02 0842 EE 222T 01 1373 lAW 695 05 1843 ACCT 371 04 0849 EE 3421. 01 1397 LLRO 451 01 3826 ACCT 372 01 0852 EE 342L 02 1398 MARK350 02 1855 ACCT 473 01 0854 EE 3421. 04 0144 MARK476 01 1861 ACCT 475 02 0857 EE 344T 02 1402 MATH323 01 1922 ACCT 475 03 0858 EE 348T 02 2690 MATH 325 01 1923 ACCT 476 01 3007 ENGl. 310 01 1560 MBA 601 01 4074 AERO 4441. 02 0873 ENGL 311 01 1561 ME 327 01 1995 AERO 4441. 04 0875 ENGl. 319A 01 1564 Ml 305 01 4153 AEHO 446L 02 0879 ENGl. 319A 02 1565 Ml 308 01 3120 AEHO 446L 03 0880 ENGl. 328A 01 0175 MUS 220D 01 2092 AERO 4461. 04 0881 ENGl. 340 01 0041 MUS 220D 02 0330 AFAM 384 01 3520 ENGL 384C 01 3164 MUS 221 01 2646 AFAM 384C 01 3519 ENGl. 416F 01 3074 MUS 223 01 0327 AFAM 401 01 3463 ENGl. 416G 01 3608 MUS 226 01 2095 AFAM 452 01 3214 ENGl. 417 01 3611 NSCI 411 03 2165 AFAM 474 01 4152 ENGl. 440B 01 3613 PHIL 222 01 2195 AMST 580 01 3534 ENGl. 471A 01 3623 PHIL 225 01 3137 ANTII 310 01 2935 ENGl. 475A 01 3351 PHIL 230 01 3785 ANTH 313 01 3536 ENGL 478B 01 3624 PHIL 235 01 2197 ANTII 329 01 3225 ENGL 485C 01 1581 PHIL 238 01 0449 ANTI! 329A 01 3539 ENGL 492C 01 3628 PHIL 242 01 0055 ANTI! 405A 01 3544 ENGl. 493A 01 3629 PHIL 243 01 3786 ANTII 420 01 2566 ENGl. 495A 01 3630 PHIL 246 01 2198 ANTI! 454 01 3028 ENGL 595B 01 3638 PHIL 247 01 3190 ARIII 169 01 0970 FIN 360 03 1602 PHIL 253 01 3141 ARIII 397 01 3307 FIN 360 04 1605 PHIL 261 01 2200 ARIII 461 01 3550 FIN 360 05 1606 PHIL 263 01 3789 ARST 133S 01 0990 FIN 361 01 1607 PHIL 268 01 2202 ARST 325S 01 1003 FIN 361 06 1613 PHYS 221 01 2231 BA 363 03 1060 FIN 370 01 1614 PHYS 2211. 02 2234 BA 391 01 0769 FIN 376 .04 1620 PHYS 222 01 2238 BA 391 02 0768 FIN 380 03 1623 PHYS 222L 01 2239 BA 391 03 0559 FIN 462 01 1625 PHYS 3311. 01 2249 BA 490 03 1067 FIN 473 01 1629 PHYS 331L 02 0658 BA 490 04 1068 FIN 476 01 0117 PSY 342 01 2363 BA 490 05 1069 FIN 478 01 1630 PSY 356 01 3809 BA 490 06 1070 GE 301 01 2984 PSY 472 01 2364 BIOS 344L 01 1084 GOVf 340T 03 3669 PSY 478 01 3812 BIOS 3441. 02 1085 GOVf 342 01 1707 PSY 481 01 3813 BIOS 3441. 03 3897 GOVf 343T 03 0384 RLST 220 24 9524 BIOS 344L 04 3899 GOVf 403 01 3670 RLST 235 40 9540 BIOS 405 01 0135 GOVf 419 01 4150 RLST 235 42 9542 BIOS 4201. 01 1916 GOVf 454 01 3673 RLST 240 28 9528 BIOS 420L 02 1931 GOVf 474 01 4096 RLST 240 30 9530 BIOS 455 01 3991 GSC 358 01 3648 RLST 335 56 9556 l:APP 315 01 1164 GSC 430 01 3457 ROFR 426 01 3438 CAPP 361 01 1165 GSC 475 01 3657 ROIT 312 01 2852 CE 442 01 1178 GSC 480Z 01 3352 ROSP 103 04 2585 CIIEM 119L 02 3053 HIST 308 01 3119 ROSP 318 01 2602 CHEM 119L 04 3057 HIST 308A 01 3722 ROSP 328 01 2603 CliEM 201 01 3998 HIST 326A 01 3723 SOC 220T 01 4109 CHEM 201 03 1228 IIIST 354A 01 3731 soc 242 01 3843 CIIEM 3221. 01 1242 HIST 358A 01 3733 soc 242 02 3844 CHEM 322L 02 1243 HIST 395 01 0080 soc 300 01 3845 CHEM 3331. 01 4000 IIIST 431A 01 3737 soc 332 01 0054 CIIEM 3331. 02 1245 HIST 440A 01 3739 soc 374 01 3449 CHEM 3331. 03 1246 HIST 444A 01 3741 soc 400 01 3850 CIIEM 3331. 04 124 7 HIST 453A 01 3743 SOC 400T 01 3851 COTH 210 01 3567 HIST 458 01 3744 soc 445 01 3855 COTH 325 01 3568 IIIST 458A 01 3745 soc 520 01 2631 COTII 330 01 3569 HIST 459A 01 3746 STV 247 01 3290 COTII 334C 01 3572 IIIST 465A 01 3747 STV 310 01 3716 COTII 377 01 3079 HIST 472A 01 3748 STV 454 01 3029 COTH 435 01 3575 HIST 474A 01 3749 THEO 224 01 0262 ECON 303L 02 0296 liPS 247 01 3192 THEO 250 01 0661 ECON 403 01 3584 liPS 335 01 4138 THEO 258 01 3874 ECON 403T 01 3585 liPS 473C 01 4145 THEO 261 01 0704 ECON 421 OJ 1350 LAW 601 01 1806 THEO 263 02 3876 ECON 422 PI 0662 lAW 603 02 1810 THEO 265 01 0703 ECON 489 01 1881 LAW 606D 01 1813 THEO 281 01 3151 EDUC 201F 04 8404 lAW 631A 01 1826 THEO 286 01 3882 EDUC 324 18 8418 lAW 631B 01 1827 THEO 287 01 0254 


Thursday, April 9, 1992 The Observer page 15 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•Irish 
Heartlights Spring 3 and ..6 mile runs are scheduled for April 9 at 4 p.m. Students and staff can pick up entry forms at RecSports, LaFortune Info desk, and the Dining Halls. For more information, call239-6100 and ask for Sally. 

•Bookstore 
Basketball players who lost watches or a pair of gloves should call283-1224 or 283-1696 to identify. 

•AnTostal 
Bike Races are accepting applicants for the Fast Bike races and the Off-road Bike races. Races start at 4:30p.m. on April 23 at Saint Mary's. Register in the SUB office in LaFortune on Friday or Monday from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Helmets are required. Questions? Call Karl Etzel at 283-2257. 

•ND/SMC 
Sailing team will have a mandatory meeting and practice on April 9 at 4 p.m. at the boat house. T-shirts will be .. distributed and race plans will be discussed. Everyone must attend. Questions? Call Adrienne Briggs or Julie Hurley. 

•Aerobic 
instructor tryouts will be conducted on Friday at 5 


p.m. in Gym 1 at the JACC. Men and women interested in auditioning for Aerobic teaching positions next year should complete an application form in the RecSports Office prior to the tryouts. Call 239-5100 for more information. 
•The 
ND Martial Arts Institute will hold a belt testing and a seminar on Saturday in room 301 of the Rockne Memorial from 1 p.m. to 8 p.m. Everyone is welcome to attend. 

•Fellowship 
of Christian Athletes will have its weekly meeting tonight in the basement of Farley at 7 p.m. All are welcome to attend. Questions? Call E.D. at 283-1274. 

•A 
body fat testing session will be conducted by RecSports on Ftiday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the LaFortune lobby, No preregistration is required. 



NoTRE DAME 
CoMMUNICATION 
AND THEATRE 

8:10PM 
• WASHINGTON HALL 
RESERVED SEATS $7, 
TICKETS ARE AVAilABLE AT 
THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT 
THE LAFORTUNE ffiiDENT CENTER 
TICKET OFFICE. MAsTERCARD AND 
VISA ORDERS CALL 239-8128 
STUDENTS AND SENIOR CITIZEN 
DISCOUNTS ARE AVAilABLE FOR 
WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY AND 
SUNDAY PERFORMANCES. 

TIIF: UNIVERSITY 
:sophomore. se.rvLc.(..

Of NOTRF. DAilE 1 ,
-=::-==-C.CI"N'N ttt.t. pre.~•.. 
Charit9 ~ ~,~~iG~~fest 1d 
FU.TU~N ••., 

?>r~,eo\\1'\,~ ~\l\tl ............L\:OD-a..t:l.i5,/ X~t.. ASfo.\r ................~:'-'5' s:3o,J ~\t~ri6..'~ ~QQ.\~~ ........S··3C-I.:ts,l1 .Atte~cs ~\td ............ r.:t~-1:oo," 
P\PR1L \OL! .rrELDHDDstM~LL 
I daf\O.iia~ ~ -hl bu\efit iht. 

}\~3~1\ tOtt\tr ().t\~ Stho'or5hip 
AIDS virus hits Arthur Ashe 
NEW YORK (AP) -Arthur Ashe, the first black man to win one of tennis' Grand Slam tournaments, has the AIDS virus, sources said today. 
They said Ashe apparently was infected during open-heart surgery. He had heart opera­tions in both 1983 and 1979. 
It was not known if Ashe had developed full-blown AIDS. 
Ashe, 48, scheduled a news conference for 3:30 p.m. EDT. HBO, the cable TV network for which Ashe does tennis com­mentary, said there would be a "major announcement" but de­clined further comment. 
Ashe was unavailable for im­mediate comment. Phone calls to his home were not answered. 
Ashe was the second promi­nent athletic figure in recent months to test positive for the virus that causes AIDS. 
Last November, Magic Johnson, one of basketball's greatest stars, said he had con­tracted the virus that leads to AIDS and announced his re­tirement from the Los Angeles Lakers. 
Johnson said he believed he had contracted the human im­munodeficiency virus, or HIV, 

through heterosexual inter­course. 
The sources, speaking on the condition that they not be iden­tified, said Ashe apparently had contracted the virus during open-heart surgery almost 13 years ago. 
Ashe underwent quadruple bypass surgery at St. Luke's Hospital in New York in December 1979. He had suf­fered a heart attack five months earlier. 
Some 4, 770 AIDS cases in the United States have been at­tributed to blood transfusions, about 2 percent of the total. Almost all those infections oc­curred before the nation's blood supply began being screened for the HIV virus in 1985. 
Ashe burst onto the tennis scene in 1961 when he won the National Interscholastic Tennis Championships as a high school star from Richmond, Va. 
Civil rights and tennis eco­nomics both found Ashe at cen· ter stage in the 1060s and '70s. 
He helped get South Africa banned from the Davis Cup be­cause of the nation's apartheid policies in March 1970. Ashe said American black athletes should use their sports success to promote civil rights causes and took a leading role, ad­dressing the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. 
Ashe scored his greatest tri­umph in 197 5 when he changed his game and defeated the seemingly invincible Jimmy Connors to capture Wimbledon. He thus became the first black man to win Wimbledon, follow­ing Althea Gibson, who was the first black woman to win the English tournament in 1957 and 1958. 
Ashe was ranked No. 1 in the world in 1968 and 1975. But it was in 1968, when he was still an amateur in a sport that was becoming open to professionals, that he set a record that will never be duplicated. 
The lanky (6-foot-1 and 155) right-hander won both U.S. championships played that year -the last U.S. Nationals, for amateurs only, then the first 
U.S. Open where, in the final, Ashe defeated a professional, Tom Okker, for the title. He thus became the only amateur to win the U.S. Open. 
State's attorney argues to keep Tyson imprisoned 
criminal in Indiana gets," said William Daily, a deputy attorney general. "He's gotten that in this case, and that's where it ends. 
"Mr. Tyson has already gone through the normal rights and procedures and his attorneys haven't shown he deserves spe­cial treatment," Daily said. 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The Indiana Supreme Court shouldn't consider Mike Tyson's request to be released on bail while he appeals his rape conviction, the state's attorney general argues. 
But if Indiana's highest court decides to rule on the bail re­quest, the five justices should deny Tyson his freedom be­cause he poses a threat to flee or commit a violent crime again, the state's attorneys claim in briefs filed Wednesday. 

"Our position is Mr. Tyson deserves the same rights and procedures that every other 

... 

-



page 16 
Volleyball Club travels to National Tournament 
Goalie 
continued from page 20 
load, which features a double major in governmP.nt and English, leaves little time for anything else, but Parent uses that time to help a number of worthy causes. 
He is involved in the Big Brother program and has given free time to tutoring. He also s1-1rves as Co-Chairman for The Hesburg Policy Colloquim enti­tled " Affirmative Action­Recovering the Dream". 
In his first season, Parent emerged as a 10-game starter for the Irish earning a 6-4 record as a starter. He posted a .572 save percentage while averaging 12 saves and 8 goals against, per game. 
The highlight of the year came when he led the Irish to the NCAA tournament where they were defeated in the first round by Harvard. 
After such a successful freshman year, Parent's s·ophomore year held great promise, but the season did not live up to Parent's expectations. 
" I had a lousy year," said Parent. "I put too much pres­sure on myS61lf." 
Parent dealt with a mental block that year by doing Tai Chi meditation. This meditation is designed for a person to envi­sion oneself successful. 
" If I lPt up a goal , I dwelled on it too much,"said Parent. "Tai Chi really worked." 

-
The Observer 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 

then dominated a frustrated 
Kronauge the rest of the way to 
close out a miraculous 2-6. 7-5, 
6-2 victory. 

The match had all the mak­
ings of a classic Connors­
McEnroe matchup, with all the 
screaming, fist-waving, intense 
points, and controversial calls 
that the packed crowd could 
handle. 

It turns out that not only did DiLucia thoroughly entertain the rabid fans that turned out for David DiLucia Day, the spectators also gave the All­American something back. 
"I could feel them out on the 
court," noted DiLucia. "And I 
attribute this win to them." 

During his improbable second set comeback, the fans inspired the future pro so much that he was nearly brought to tears. 
"For the last game I really started hearing everybody," said the Norristown, Pa., native, "And I caught myself with tears. That's only happened a few times, during the Pan Am Games in Cuba, when I made the Davis Cup team, and during my first pro tourney." 
Kronauge, who is now 0-7 against DiLucia, knew that the Irish star was determined to win his last home match, no matter what he had to do. 
"I never thought the match was mine," noted Kronauge, "He's too much of a champion. And after I lost the second set I just went into a state of shock, 

By WOODY PIER 
Sports Writer 
College teams from across the country gather in pursuit of a dream whieh only one team will fulfill. The traditional powers are favored, but the ever-present possibility of an upset adds to the excitement. The huge field is narrowed down in what seems like the blink of an eye. 
No it:s not tho NCAA basket­ball tournament. We're ~alking about a different tournament, the National Club Volleyball Championships. Notre Dame will be among 48 teams battling for the crown today through Saturday in Buffalo, New York. 
Notre Dame got a taste of the stiff competition the tournament will provide when it faced third-ranked Graceland College on Tuesday. Though the Irish lost that match In three games, the team showed promise. All three games were close, Including two 16-14 heartbreakers. 
~we can play with them, we eertainly proved that," club president Mike Flecker asserted. "They're heatable, and they're third in the country, so we should be able to fare well in the tournament." 
After closing the regular season with the loss. Notre Dame enters the post-season unranked but undaunted. The Irish were 13-6 in dual matches. along with impressive showings in several 
This sP.ason Parent already has 92 saves and averages only 5 goals scored per game. According to fellow goalie coach tournaments. They recorded victories against national tournament participants Illinois, Ohio State, and Cincinnati (twice). All this makes first-year head coach Kim Reefer optimistic about the upcoming meet. 
"I've never been to 
nationals, so I really don't 
know what to expect," Reefer 
commented. "But we've made 
some adjustments, and I feel 
we can do well." 
Flecker, a veteran of the na­tional tournament, is equally upbeat. He believes the team can better last year's results. 
~We'd like to finish at least in the top ten," Flecker said. "We finished tenth last year, and you always look to improve." 
The teams will be split into ten pools of four to five teams each. The winner of each pool and the six best remaining teams will advance to the single elimination championship round, in which matches are the best two of three. Three time defending champion California-Berkely is the top-ranked team. 
While Notre Dame has high aspirations for success, the tournament will be a tremen­dous experience regardless of the outcome. 
"This kind of tournament is really fun because there are no bad teams," Flecker said. "You really have to concentrate in every game. Every game will be a battle." 
It should be as exciting as that other tournament. 
Chris Burdick, Parent practically won the Ohio Wesleyan game for the Irish alone, allowing only one goal in the first half of the game. 
"He is a mental brick wall who stalls all of our opponents," said Burdick. "He is unselfish." 
Due to his impressive stats, Parent may be ranked in the top 10 goalies in the nation when the rankings come out later this season. 
Parent's excellent play has also been fueled by the absence of good friend and teammate Rob Williamson, who earlier this season left school to be treated for Hodgkins' disease. Parent has inscribed Williamson's number into his goalie mitt. 
" I see how lucky I am when I think of the strains that Rob is under," said Parent. "That mo­tivates me even more." 
As for the rest of the season, "I would be cheating myself and my God-given ability if I did not give 100% every day," said Parent. 


uzanne -Happy 21st 
~...................................................................................... 

Wishing you a Happy 21st Birthday 
Love, Momi, Dad, Ellen, Chris & Haney 
.................................................... 
we've played. And they went to the semi-finals in the San Jose
Softball 

tournament. They have strong continued from page 20 pitching and good hitting." 
As for Creighton, "They're a 
quality club who's been to the 
World Series." . 
7-2. 

"Depaul's been a nemesis of In the second game, Boulac ours ever since we started, but elected to go with the hot hand we've caught up lately." The and put Alford back on the hill. 
Blue Demons hold a 7-3 advan­
But again, the Broncos threw tage in the series, with the Irish the Irish for a 4-2 loss, despite sweeping them in two gameskey hits from freshman Sara Hayes and senior co-captain Amy Folsom. 
"We made a few costly errors in the field and they came out swinging again," said Boulac. "I don't know if we were tired or what it was. I'm not looking for excuses, but we just didn't look sharp or ready to play." 
Now, the team must prepare to face some of the country's best, including Nebraska and Creighton on Saturday and DePaul on Sunday. 
"Nebraska's been to the NCAA tourney in two of the last three years," noted Boulac. "They're a good ballclub, judging from their scores against teams 
Chuck Coleman 
wondering how he did it." 

As if his win wasn't enough, DiLucia then teamed with Chuck Coleman to push the fifth-ranked doubles team of Kronauge and Paul Kruse to the absolute limit. 
After losing the first set 6-3, the Irish dominated the second 6-2 to knot the match at one set a piece. DiLucia and Coleman then took a commanding 4-2 lead in the third set, only to find themselves deadlocked at 5-5. The two teams exchanged games to bring the score to six­all, which set up a dramatic tie­breaker. 
The Irish broke out to a 3-2 lead, but Ball State stormed back to lead 5-3. The Irish then held off two match points before finally bowing out, 9-7. The final score read 6-3, 2-6, 7­6(9-7) in favor of the Cardinals, and the hotly-contested match was marred by so many dis­puted points that an official had to be brought in to call the shots. At one point, Kronauge even trashed a racquet after destroying it in a fit of rage. 
Even though the outcome of the match was a mere after-
Thursday, April 9, 1992 
thought after DiLucia and 
Coleman's big matches, the 
eighth-ranked Irish did beat the 
22nd-ranked Cardinals, 6-3. 
The Irish got big wins from 
Coleman, Will Forsyth, and Tom 
North at three, four, and six­
singles. Coleman routed Doug 
Campbell 6-1, 6-1, and North 
crushed J.P. Demetriou by the 
same score. Forsyth's win was 
particularly impressive, as he 
rallied to defeat John Amos, 6­
3, 4-6, 6-3. 
"I played a little smarter to­wards the end by taking some pace off the ball," noted Forsyth. "I let him dictate the pace, something he doesn't like to do. It's not my usual style. but I guess you do whatever it takes to win." 
Notre Dame's only losses came at two-singles, where 65the-ranked Andy Zurcher was upset by Ball State's Curt Josselyn, 4-6, 6-0, 6-4, and at five-singles, where Ron Rosas was beaten by Kruse 6-2, 6-3. 
The Irish's third doubles team, made up of North and fellow sophomore Tad Eckert, then sealed the victory with a 7­5, 6-3 win over Amos and Dommestrup. Zurcher and Forsyth's 3-6, 6-2, 6-2 win over Josselyn and Campbell fol­lowed, setting up the final match between DiLucia and Coleman and Kronauge and Kruse. 
All in all, it was a fitting way for Notre Dame's only two-time All-American to finish out his home match career. Throughout both comeback matches, DiLucia exhibited all the strength and courage that will someday place him among the top players in the world. 
last season. 
"They've been fairly success­ful, but they upgraded their schedule this year so they're ready for the competition in the tourney." 
Boulac also hopes to get his team rested-and ready. 
"Hopefully we can forget about today and play with some intensity out there like we did down in Florida (at the Southern Invitational)," he said. 

I ~~WJ ~fNl~ ~(Q)~~ I 
! l(Q)~fNl®l~ I 
I I
I MON. $1.00 DEALS TUES.$ .50 DEALS &NO I I WED. $1.00 JAMS·Hop COVER CHARGE I 
I on stage & jam I
I I
THURS. $3.00 STUDENT I 60 oz. DEALS !!! I I N LaSalle HEY. CHECK IT OUT 1 I I X I 
I L 2 POOL TABLES I
I I
E 31 2 ELECTRIC DART BOARDS BIG SCREEN TV I 
.._____................................................ 

Thursday, April 9, 1992 
By KILEY COBLE Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team beat Valparaiso University 9-0 Wednesday, raising its record to 7-6. 
Number one singles player Ellen Mayer won 6-2, 6-1 over Kirsten Davies. 
Mayer, a senior, credited a change in her mental preparatiQn for the win. 
UI think I had better concentration today," Mayer said. "I was just playing better today than I have been and my serve was much better." 
Coach Jo-Ann Nester also commented on Mayer's game. 
ult was nice to see Ellen win," Nester said. "She has had some tough matches this year." 
In other singles play, senior Marie Koscielski topped Lynne . Bos 6-1, 6-4. Number three 
----~-~--~--~--------­
The Observer 



Applications for Freshman Orientation Committee Available now in Student Government Office 
Deadline: Friday, April 10 5:00 pm 
Questions? Call Chris x 3445 

God gives each persononelifetime. What are you doingwithyours? 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the . Universit!' of Notre Dame for college graduates mterested _m exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
page 17 

got a single run in each frame. Binkiewicz scored for the Irish in the eighth after Purdue pitching ace Sherard Clinkscales walked Notre Dame pinch hitter Adam Maisano. Maisano was brought to the plate after Hartwell dove into first to beat a throw from the second baseman. 
In the ninth, the Irish looked like they might just pull out a win when juniors Dan Bautch (2 for 3, 1 run) and Eric Danapilis (1 for 3) walked and Counsell was hit by a pitch by Purdue reliever Jeff Isom to load the bases and bring Binkiewicz to the plate with no outs. Binkiewicz popped up to Gabrisko in left field, but Bautch tagged up and scored on the play. Senior Cory Mee (2 for 5} sent a fly ball to center, but the hit was caught by Sean Helsel. With two outs Failla came to the plate. The fresh­man hit a liner that was promptly snagged by the Purdue second baseman to end the game. 
"We've got to pick up a bit," said Counsell. "We need to execute on offense better, and our pitches have to stop walking people. We just have to put everything together." 
The Irish will get another chance to put it all together when they open their four games series with Evansville. 
Random 
continued from page 20 
10 finishes at Augusta. 
However, Couples will have to deal with a field that contains 18 Masters' winners, including Tom­Watson, Jack Nicklaus, Nick Faldo and defending champ Ian Woosnam. 
There are also a few con­tenders who have never worn the green jacket. Spaniard Jose-Maria Olzabal is not well known in the States because he plays primarily on the European Tour, but he was the runner­up last year and could be ready to claim his first ma­jor. 
Payne Stewart is always a threat, and John Daly won the PGA Championship last year as a rookie. You have to wonder if he will fare as well in his first trip to Augusta. 
It should be an exciting weekend at Augusta and the perfect way to end a terrific sports week. 
Correction 

In yesterday's paper a St. Mary's tennis player was incorrectly identified. The SMC tennis player was Ellen Mayer. The Observer regrets the mistake. 

American Heart ft Association V 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
ning performance. The right­handed allowed several Irish runners to reach scoring posi­tion in the first three innings, but the Irish were unable to bring the runners across the plate. In total, Smith allowed three runs and 10 hits while striking out four and walking two in the winning effort. 
In the fourth inning, both the Irish and the Boilermakers put runs on the board. With two outs and two Boilermakers in scoring position, Notre Dame freshman left-fielder Paul Failla made a diving grab to end the inning. 
In Notre Dame's half of the inning, Junior Ed Hartwell (1 for 3, 1 run) walked and was advanced to second with two out on a balk. Freshman Bob Lisanti (2 for 3) singled to left center to bring Hartwell home. 
The Irish scored again in the sixth when senior Joe Binkiewicz (1 for 3, 2 RBI, 1 HR} started out the inning with his fifth homerun of the year, a towering shot that landed across the street from the sta­dium. 
Sophomore Tom Price took 

Paul Failla 
over for Leahy to start the fifth inning. Price handled Purdue in the fifth and sixth innings, notching four strikeouts while facing only seven batters. 
The seventh inning brought another stellar defensive play for Notre Dame, but also brought another run for Purdue. Ron Gabrisko hit a grounder to senior shortstop Craig Counsell that took a bad hop and almost hit Counsell in the face. Counsell kept his com­posure and fired a rocket to first that barely beat Gabrisko to the bag. The next batter, Jermaine Allensworth, took Price deep to left with his sev­enth homer of the year making the score 5-2 in favor of the Boilermakers. 
The Irish threatened the Boilermaker lead in the eighth and ninth innings loading the bases in both innings, but only 

The Department Of Music PreY.nts 
PatrictMafoney 
and pianist 'Brian M0 {{ 
in a FACULTY VOICE RECITAL Thursday, April9, 7:30p.m. 
Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art 
The concert is free and open to the public 
The Observer 
is now accepting application for the following position: 
Assistant Accent Editor Accent Copy Editor 
Please submit a 1 page personal statement and a sample column to Jahnelle Harrigan by 5 p.m. on Wed. AprillS 

"Two thumbs up-way up. 
It's one of the year's best films:' 
SISKEL &: EBERT 
"A powerhouse movie ... 
the work ofa truly gifted filmmaker~ 
-David ADsen, llliWSWJiliK 

Cinema at the Snlte 
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 7:30, 9:45 
... 
~---------~--~­

page 18 The Observer Thursday, April 9, 1992 

Belles travel to face Hornets 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON 
Sports Writer 
Youth will meet youth today 
in Kalamazoo, Michigan, as the 
Belles of Saint Mary's travels to 
take on the Kalamazoo College 
Hornets. 
Kalamazoo will turn to sev­
eral freshmen today as they at­
tempt to avenge two losses to 
the Belles last season. Among 
these freshmen will be pitchers 
Sara Foster and Amy Nosich. 
St. Mary's senior co-captain 
Carol Grobner feels that the 
freshmen are the strength of 
the club. 
"Kalamazoo has an excellent 
pitching staff, probably one of 
the best we've faced this year," 
stated Grobner. 
The Hornets do have a few 
veterans to turn to, including 
senior Hebecca Hifenberg. She 
is a two-time, first team all­
MlAA player at shortstop and 
batted .412 in 1991. 
The Belles are looking to con­tinue their winning ways after taking one of two games played against Saint Francis College, followed by a sweep of Bethel College. 
Grobner felt winning the games against Bethel was a building block for the team's confidence. 
"Those games was a real con­fidence booster," she said. "We are a young team, but we are maturing together and com­municating better as the season progresses." 
The Belles will be looking once again to pitcher, Lisa Bright. The freshman has taken over the position of starting pitcher in place of junior Stephanie Kisscorni, who took the season off to devote to her studies. 
"Usa is doing an excellent job. She is really our main stay. She has not only thrown, but gone the distance in every game," said coach Don Cromer, 
The Belles will also look to a number of veterans, including Grobner, to compliment Bright's success on the mound. In addition to Grobner, Sara Miller has come through for the Belles at the clean-up spot. 
Please Recycle this paper when you are finished with it. 
Thank you. 

Spring practice success normal for men's soccer 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
Coaches usually do not worry about winning and losing exhi­bition games because they are just that-exhibition. 
Notre Dame men's soccer coach Mike Berticelli hopes that his team's performance in the spring season will continue into next fall. 
The Irish, who play a five­game spring schedule, have not lost a spring game since 1990. 
"We try to accomplish things in the spring, and then try to carry that over into the fall," Berticelli explained. 
Though Notre Dame has been successful the past two springs, Berticelli feels that the two ses­sions were very different. While the Irish worked primarily on adjusting their attitude and frame of mind last spring, this year they are spending a lot of time on strategy. 
"We are working some basic tactical things because we are such a young team," Berticelli commented. "We are using this spring to look at our younger players who didn't get a lot of playing time last season. We 

want to give them some time 
and let them adjust. 

"We are also taking a look at some players at different posi­tions." 
One problem facing the Irish is the loss of graduating seniors Kenyon Meyer and Brett Hofmann. 
Berticelli plans to move an outside midfielder into Meyer's defensive midfield position. 
The top candidates are Mike Palmer, who will be a junior, and Jason Fox, who started two games last season as a freshman before mononucleosis forced him to miss the majority of the year. 
The competition is much more wide open for Hofmann spot in the backfield. 
"We are looking at five, six or seven guys right now," Berticelli stated. 
Unlike the women's soccer team, Berticelli said that his team is not doing too much ex­perimenting in spring practice because of their youth. 
Last season's team had only four seniors on its roster, which is the same amount next year's squad will have. 
However, the 1991 team had With seven more freshmen 14 freshmen, many of which arriving in the fall, Berticelli played critical roles in the will be depending heavily on the team's success. Irish's youth movement. 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Mike Palmer, shown here last season, has combined with the rest of the men's soccer teamto boost the outlook for next season. 
REGATIA T-SHIRTS ON SALE NDH/SDH AT DINNER THURS&FRI 

Houses for Rent 92-93 
~ U S-6 Bedrooms Fully Furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers 
287·4989 
Save $%§0.00 with this AD* *new renters only 

PROCEEDS GO TO THE MEGHAN BEELER/COLLEEN HIPP SCHOLARSHIP FlJND 
... 

Today 

Thursday, April 9, 1992 page 19 
SPELUNKER 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I'M B\lS'I \R'{\~G Yl"'i BO\t\£R!' <ll 1\-\t. AAR£ 
lb fiX ':i:)t>\81-\ING. OC.Cf..S\Ot-.15 'rii-I£N '1C)J \::NOW W\-11\T It\£. llROS\.£M \':>, '100 IJSU,.._Ll'{ t.\1\1(£. 1\ WORSt. 
i\.ND 1\IJR\ 'K)IJR5t.Lf .----~ \~ 1\\E. I'ROctSS ! 


stupid slide's in backward!" 

MENU Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Italian grilled Southern fried chicken breast chicken sandwich baked lasagna vineyard vegetables vegetarian chow with cheese me in veal parmesan 
BILL WATTERSON 
I WIS\.1 I'O NOTICE.D 1\1t: Bt\~Dr..G£ 0~ 1-\\'S Hl\~0 SHORE I Sl\10 IH,.._T. 
\ 
~'1:k_
w 
-A 
CAMPUS Thursday 
8 p.m. Saint Mary's and Notre Dame Repertory Per­formance Dance Workshop, "Dance & More." Indi Dieck­graefe, director. Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Communications, Theatre and Dance, Saint Mary's College. 
8:10p.m. Notre Dame Department of Communication and 
Theatre presents, "King Lear." Washington Hall. 
COLLEGIATE JAZZ 
FESTIVAL 

APRIL 10-llth • STEPAN CENTER 
FRIDAY SESION I Begins at 7:30pm 
Student Tickets $4 
SATURDAY SESSION n Begins at 1:00pm 
Student Tickets $2 
SATURDAY SESSION ITI Begins at 7:30pm 
Student Tickets $1 
STUDENf TICKETS AVAilABLE AT THE DOOR 

1 Fill with fear 37 Actor Art ­2 Pain 39 Fast gait 3 Railroad inventory 40 Girl's name 4 Tenant or landlord 41 Painter of "Rowers' 5 Happen Luncheon" 6 Raised platform 42 Mired (3 wds.) 7 No longer in use 43 Military rank 
(abbr.) 45 Baseball city B Blended with (abbr.) (2 wds.) 46 Stratum 9 In one lump (2 wds.)48 Dried up 10 Spanish equivalent 49 Irish-Gaelic of "oui, oui" 51 Accelerate 
LECTURES Thursday 
4 p.m. Lecture: "Between Apocalypse and Redemption: John Singleton's Boyz 'N The Hood," Michael Dyson, assistant professor, Chicago Theological Seminary. Library Auditorium. Presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
4 p.m. Lecture Series in the History and Traditions of Saint Mary's College-Rediscovering Our Roots, "Empowering Women of Faith: Saint Mary's Graduate School of Theology," Dr. Sandra Yocum Mizc. Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall. Sponsored by Saint Mary's College. 
4:15 p.m. Lecture: "Institutional Politics, Civil Society, and Democratic Consolidation: The Korean Experience in Comparative Perspectives," Sand Jin-Han, Seoul National University, Korean and East Asian Institute, Columbia University. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 
8 p.m. Paul and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholars Series: Canonicity and Its Critics, "The Classics and Multiculturalism: Alliance of Misalliance," James Allen, Julliard School of Music. Lounge, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Program of Liberal Studies. 
Princess Bride 8:30 & 10:00 Thursday, April 9th 
JFK 

8:00 Friday, April lOth Saturday, ApriC 11th 
Cushing Auditorium Admission $2.00 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Sports 

page 20 

MIKE SCRUDATO 
Random Thoughts 
Masters highlights 
dream week for 
sports fanatics 
If you are a sports fan, this has been a week made just for you. 
On Monday March, into April, Madness came to a close, as Duke showed its second-half magic once again in route to its second straight national title. 
Just as college basketball ended, umpires cried, "Play Ball!" 
In his first game as a Met, Bobby Bonilla began to earn the almost six­million dollars he will be paid this season (if it is possible to legitimately earn that mueh money for playing baseball) by cracking two home runs to lift the Mets to a 4-2 win over the Cardinals. 
The Orioles debuted Oriole Park at Camden Yards to rave reviews. The place looks like a combination of every ball park built befon1 astroturf and multi­purpose stadiums. 
As Cal Ripken said before Opening Day, "I feel like we've played here before." 
When the O's actually played their first game in the new park, ex-Cub Rick Sutcliffe shut out the Indians, 2-0. 
Season openers continued on Tuesday. 
In year 2 A.S. (After Steinbrenner) the Yankees drew their largest regular­season crowd in the renovated Yankee Stadium, which opened in 1976, and they sent the 56,572 people home smiling as they beat the Red Sox, 4-3. 
On a sad note, Nolan Ryan, who was chased in the fifth inning of the Rangers' opener, was placed on the 15-day dis­abled list. It looks like "The Express" is finally slowing down. 
Despite all the hoops and baseball. the highlight of the week starts today when 85 golfers tee off at Augusta in the annual quest for the green jacket. 
Now I am not one to sit back and watch golf on TV. I would much rather go out and hack around on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
But The Masters is completely difl'erent. 
Augusta is one of the most beautiful courses in the world and one which almost any golfer dreams of playing. 
"I feel like I'm in heaven," PGA champion John Daly said after playing the course for the first time earlier in the week. 
You can be enthralled by simply looking at at the course, and then be amazed as the greatest golfers in the world make shots you would love to make just once in your life with regularity. 
The odds-on-favorite this year has to be Fred Couples, who has ascended to golfs top-ranking and is the PGA Tour's leading money winner. He is playing the best golf in the world right now and has three top 
see RANDOM/page 17 
Thursday, April 9,1992 

Goalie Parent strengthens Notre Dame defense 
By NICOLE MCGRATH SMC Sports Editor 
Everything has a short end and a long end and when it comes to lacrosse goalie Chris Parent, the Irish got the long end. The short end belongs to any any opponent trying to score off Notre Dame's standout goalie. 
When goalie Chris Parent was deciding on colleges to 


play lacrosse for he was 

Chris Parent 
tempted by a scholarship 

freshmen, for most saves, 29,
offer to Loyola College in 

against Loyola. He described
Maryland. 

it as the pinnacle point of his 
"They said I should stick to 

college career saying," I
the books," said Parent. "but 

knew that I could really
I showed them who's boss." 

compete at a college level
He did that by setting a 
after Loyola." 
Notre Dame record, as a 

At 10 years old, Parent got 
his first shot at lacrosse as he played goalie for his older brother, Scott. Parent at­tributes Scott, who played lacrosse for Air Force, as his primary mentor in lacrosse and everything in life. 
" We used to play games in the backyard," smiled Parent. "and being goalie came natural to me." 
But Parent's ability as a goalie can be described as anything but natural. 
His skillful handling of opponents can be traced back to his lacrosse days at Fairfield Prep in his hometown Fairfield, Ct. Parent's lacrosse team was ranked in the top-three in the state. He wasn't the only standout in the net for his high school team. He shared playing time with a goalie who now plays for top­ranked Syracuse. 
The lacrosse field is not the only place where Parent has excelled. In high school. Parent was class president for three years and a National Honors student holding a 4.0 average. 
It is no wonder that schools such as Dartmouth, Bucknell, Air Force, Yale and Duke all showed interest in having Parent at their college. 
Parent chose Notre Dame saying, " I have always wanted to go lwre" and from that point has never looked back. 
His lacrosse and academic 
see GOALIE/ page 16 

Notre Dame falters on the diamond 
Purdue tags Leahy in win 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
A poor showing in the first inning doomed the 15the­ranked Notre Dame baseball team (14-9) yesterday as Purdue (18-11) squeaked by the Irish 5-4. 
"Our biggest problem was the way we played early," said Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy, "And thinking that we can walk on the field and beat anyone. We have a great pride in being a blue-collar and hardworking team, but you can't give people bases and expect to win." 
Notre Dame starter Pat Leahy (4-3) hit the first batter of the game, Sean Helsel, then with two outs, walked Mike Biltmier. The next batter, Dan Zanola, sent a Leahy pitch over the wall of Coveleski Stadium to give the Boilermakers a 3-0 lead. Leahy had a shaky day on the mound giving up three hits and four runs in four innings. 
"Leahy didn't have his focus today," said Murphy. "He thought he could show up and win." 
Purdue starter Jason Smith (3-5) frustrated the Irish ef­forts early on in his 7 2/3 in-
see BASEBALUpage 17 
Dilucia thrills crowd at Eck 


~~~~~~~~~~~~ByJONATHANJENSEN
• Sports Writer 
INSIDE SPORTS 
In his last home match, Notre Dame 
• Soccer thrives in spring practice 
see page 18 
• SMC tops Valparaiso 
see page 17 
• Arthur Ashe diagnosed with 
AIDS virus see page 15 
senior David DiLucia truly showed why he deserves to be placed among the top collegiate tennis players in the country. 
DiLucia, down one set to 19the­ranked Dan Kronauge of Ball State, 
stunned a capacity crowd at the Courtney Tennis Center by staving off match point to knot the the second set 
at ~-5. 
"At that point I was just thinking that if I could hang in there it would be an amazing comeback," said the third­ranked DiLucia. 
And that it was, as DiLucia won the next two games to win the set 7-5. He 
see TENNIS/page 16 
Irish drop two at W. Michigan 
By JIM VOGL Assistant Sports Writer 
There's no rest for the weary. 
The Notre Dame softball team (18-16) dropped two to an inferior Western Michigan squad (9-15) yesterday, and will head back on the road this weekend for the Creighton Invitational in Omaha, Ne. 
After splitting two at Northern Illinois on Tuesday, the Irish had a brief repast at home base before going to Kalamazoo on Wednesday. 
The Broncos were poised to meet them, despite it being their ninth and tenth games in six days. "We ran into a buzz­saw," said Notre Dame coach Brian Boulac. "We ran into some big bats early and couldn't recover." 
Western buried the Irish with four runs in the first off sophomore Carrie Miller. Miller lasted only into the sec­ond inning, in which the Broncos tallied a 7-0 lead. After Staci Alford closed out the frame, she allowed only one hit the rest of the way. 
But the hole was too deep for the Irish to climb out of, as they scored two runs and lost 
see SOFTBALUpage 16 







