
~·~ 
. -Q&·
e Observer ~intMM~,Cd 
e 
NO B DAM •I DIAN 

FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 28, 1992
VOL. XXIV NO. 105 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/E.G. Bailey 
Laser technology 
Graduate science students Scott Martin and John Morris, left to right, conduct some laser tests in the Stepan Chemistry Center. 
Neighborhood not pleased with rezoning 
By PETER LOFTUS Assistant News Editor 
Pandora's Books overcame yet another obstacle in its quest to build a new store when the South Bend Board of Zonings Appeals (BZA) voted last week to slash the number of required parking spaces, but residents of the Northeast Neighborhood are not pleased. 
The BZA's decision, reached last Thursday, will require Pandora's, which is located on the corner of Howard and St. Peter's Sts., to provide only four parking spaces, as opposed to the previous requirement of 32. 
"We weren't pleased with the decision to allow a commer­cially-owned property in the midst of an A residential area," said Arthur Quigley, president of the Northeast Neighborhood Association and professor emeritus in engineering at ND. An A residential zone is an area that prohibits commercial establishments. 
Pandora's, which many Notre Dame students and faculty find as a cheaper alternative to the ND Hammes Bookstore, had been unable to construct their new store because of a Catch­22 in which they were required to provide 32 parking spaces, but Howard St. is too wide to meet city standards for allowing parking across the street in an A residential lot, the only area big enough for 32 parking spaces. 
The decision will allow Pandora's to go ahead with its plans to build a two-story store on the property that contains the current store as well as two old houses. Pandora's must now submit a formal site plan and obtain a building permit before they can begin construction. 
"The decision was reached based upon the fact that the nature and scope of the opera­tion (a new store) was not so broad as to require that many parking spaces," said South Bend City Attorney Richard Nussbaum. 
He added that many of Pandora's customers are ND students and faculty who travel on foot or bicycle to the store. Even those who drive to the store do not stay long, he said. 
Nussbaum said that allowing Pandora's to construct a new store will not set a precedent for "spot zoning," which is the rezoning of particular proper­ties, as opposed to rezoning whole streets or neighborhoods. 
Quigley said that neither he nor the 80 residents that live within 500 feet of Pandora's were involved in the BZA's deci-
Group hopes for co-ed Pangborn 
By JOHN CONNORTON News Writer 
The controversy regarding the conversion of Pangborn Hall is not resolved. While the Administration has stated that it intends to convert the dormi­tory into an all-female resi­dence, a student group has emerged dedicated to trans­forming Pangborn into a co­residential, chemical free dorm. 
The group met last night in order to formulate a strategy for co-residential housing be­fore presenting its proposal to the University administration and the Board of Trustees. 
They stressed that the University must take advantage of the unprecedented opportu­nity for co-educational housing. With the University determined to increase the ratio of men to women on campus by accepting more females, new dormitories will have to be constructed or historically male dorms will have to be converted to female residencies. 
"Just look at the numbers," said Jim Gannon, Pangborn se­nior and active supporter of the co-ed dorm movement. "More male dorms will have to be con­verted." 
Instead of merely converting male dorms to female, why not use co-ed housing as a means of accepting the new influx of female students, Gannon ar­gued. 
In the past, the University has been receptive to the concept of co-ed housing. Flanner junior Brian Ray, also an active sup­porter of co-ed dorms, points to a 1988 Task Force on Residency sion. A survey of those 80 households showed that 79 were opposed to the new store, he added. 
Pandora's has been fighting to construct a new store for close to two years now. 
In the spring of 1990, in the wake of a new rezoning plan by South Bend which rendered the neighborhood A residential, Pandora's attempted to relo­cate, submitting a petition for the rezoning of a piece of land across the street from its cur­rent location on the corner of Howard and St. Peter's Sts. 
The bookstore faced major opposition from the Northeast Neighborhood Association and Notre Dame and Pandora's subsequently withdrew its peti­tion to relocate. 
In early 1991, Pandora's ob­tained a building permit for 
see ZONES I page 4 
Income tax proposal hits county 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 
A tax proposal designed to increase the personal income tax from St. Joseph County residents will benefit both South Bend and Mishawaka while hurting the rest of St. Joseph County, according to Notre Dame faculty member Barry Baumbaugh and Jeff Marchant, a lab technician at ND. 
Baumbaugh and Marchant said they are fighting the tax proposal based on the concern that it will tax residents of each community in the county, but that most of the proceeds will go directly to Mishawaka and South Bend, the two largest cities in St. Joseph County. 
"Basically, the entire county will be bailing the two largest cities out," said Baumbaugh, a Granger resident. "It affects everyone in the whole county, but South Bend alone will get almost nine million more dol­lars annually." 
Legislators of the South Bend Common Council have proposed the local option income and the economic development income backed by the mayors of both Mishawaka and South Bend in an effort to bring more revenue to the cities, according to the South Bend Tribune. 
However, at a forum Feb. 24, residents of St. Joseph County protested the proposals, saying that it was unfair to expect all residents to help the two largest and most powerful ci­ties. 
"We as individuals also have tough economic times, but we manage to make ends meet," Baumbaugh said, "and (they) should too." 
Marchant said that the tax will primarily affect retired county residents and working­class residents. 
"For retired people on fixed incomes, one percent is a lot of money," he said. "The middle 
see TAX I page 4 
which stated that the Notre Dame community wants co-ed housing. The Task Force on Marriage, Family and Sexuality likewise recommended co-ed housing. 
The Hall Presidents Council has been very supportive and has actively encouraged the idea of co-ed dormitories, Gannon said. In fact, HPC's support was unanimous as was Flanner hall council's, the first of the dorm to vote on the issue. 
"Co-ed housing is a feasible plan. If Pangborn remains all­female, we want to see the next dorm converted to be co-ed," Gannon stated. 
Pangborn and the idea of co­ed housing have received cam­pus-wide support, Gannon said. The co-ed group intends to ac-
see co-ED 1page 4 
Saint Mary's College Sophomore Parents' Weekend Schedule of Events 
Friday 
3 to 6 p.m. Registration, Haggar College Center 
7 p.m. Nurses' Capping, Church of Loretto 
8 p.m. SMC Theatre Productions presents "Stepping Out." 
Saturday 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. Academic open house, Angela Athletic Facility 
1:15 to 3 p.m. Alumnae Speaker Series, Haggar Parlor. 
4:30 p.m. Mass, Church of Loretto. 
7:15 ·7:45p.m. Welcome from Jennifer Rasmussen, Sophomore Parents' Weekend Chair and William Hickey, SMC president. 
7:45 p.m. Dinner 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Dance. 
Sunday 
9:00a.m. to 10:30 p.m. Brunch, Dining Hall, for parents and students. 
page2 Friday, February 28,1992 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Sex and love are separate entities 
The church and --------­

much of society push 
people to believe that 
sex before marriage 
is bad. I feel that 
there has been too 
much emphasis put 
on the emotional 

aspects of sex, and R. O.rr Schwartz 
there are not enough Sports Photo Editor 
people who just enjoy 

the physical side of sex. While I think 
emotions have the potential to be a strong 
and positive role in the sexual act, I believe it 
is healthy to first learn how to enjoy sex, 
physically, for what it is. 

The Catholic church's stand on abstinence 
from sex until marriage has exaggerated the 
importance of sex. The Church views sex as 
the consecration of marriage. People by 
remaining abstinent before marriage are 
ignorant of each others sexuality, which is an 
important factor in a relationship. The 
church by requiring abstinence, purposely or 
not, implies that sex is the meaning of 
marriage. 

People should be able to have sex without a guilty conscience. Many people's misinter­pretations of their reactions to sex gives me reason to believe that sex and emotions must be dealt with separately before they can be brought together. Many times people mistake having sex for being in love. As a relationship develops, it develops psychologically as well as physically. People become emotionally comfortable around someone just as they become physically comfortable around someone. 
Sex can be enjoyed just like anything else, but a person should not fall in love with an­other just because of sex. I like chocolate cake a lot, but I do not have any emotional attachment to chocolate cake. I sometimes even say that I love chocolate cake, but there is no confusion in the fact that I do not really "love" chocolate cake. The whole problem is that there are so many different degrees of love; people become confused when they really like something. 
Sex is especially confusing, because sex involves people. The word love when used with people is usually used in a different sense than in loving cake. After having great sex, a person is feeling pretty good, and the first response is to say, "I love you." The problem is the person really means, "I love you," like I love chocolate cake (maybe a little more). People get confused because they suddenly feel like they are supposed to be emotionally in love, and they do not un­derstand that they can just enjoy a person physically. 
Sex and love are two different things. Sex is just another dimension of many things that would cause a person to love another. Before I could ever say, "I love you" to another person, I would have to really understand that person's personality. There are so many different things that must be considered, sex should not be emphasized too much, but sex should also not be left out. 
Once a person has control of his or her sexuality, sex can be a great way of ex­pressing things that many times are not de­scribable in words. Sex should not be the pinnacle of love, but a dimension of it, that can lead to an understanding if you really love someone or not. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Friday's Staff:  News  
Production  Meredith McCullough  
Peggy Crooks  Julie Barrett  
Bryan Nowicki  Etc.  
Sports  Cristina Ortiz  
Jim Vogl  Shonda wilson  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
FORI!CAIT: 

Cloudy, windy and colder today with a 40 percent chance of showers, changing to flurries by nightfall. Highs in the mid 40s. 
TEMPERATURES: 

City H L 
Albuquerque 54 32 Atlanta 60 34 Austin 63 45 Barcelona 57 43 Baton Rouge 79 62 Bismarck 50 34 Boise 60 39 Boston 43 30 Columbla,S.C. 71 38 Columbus 36 34 Denver 58 40 Des Moines 49 32 Harrisburg 51 33 Helena 54 27 Helsinki 39 30 Honolulu 80 60 Indianapolis 44 37 Juneau 56 47 Lincoln 56 46 Madison 38 29 Mpls-St. Paul 45 35 Nashville 40 29 Sacramento 7 4 4 7 Salt Lake City 53 32 South Bend 46 35 
Tallahassee 65 54 
Pressure 
Topeka 62 42 Washington. D.C. 47 33
H L bm~m tZJ~~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNf PT. CLOUDY CLOUDr 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 


NATIONAL 
W. Va. fugitive arrested in Oklahoma 
HINTON, Okla. -One of three convicted killers who tunneled out of a West Virginia prison was arrested Wednesday after an all-night manhunt by dozens of officers. Fred Hamilton, who had been on foot since crashing a car during a chase and was lightly dressed, told a police officer he was cold, tired and didn't want to spend another night on the run. Hamilton, 34, escaped Feb. 19 from the prison in Moundsville, W.Va., through a 32-foot tunnel dug under the walls of the century-old penitentiary. The others remained at large. Hamilton was serving three consecutive life terms stemming from a 1977 case in which a state trooper was killed. Still at large were Tomie Mollohan and David Williams, who also had been serving life terms for murder. They and Hamilton all had escaped before. 
OF INTEREST 
•A Spanish Mass will be held Sunday, March 1 at 10 
a.m at Breen-Phillips Chapel. 
•A faculty violin and plano recital will be performed by Carolyn Plummer and William Cerny sponsored by the Department of Music on Sunday at 2 p.m. at the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. They will perform sonatas by Tartini, Beethoven, and Saint-Saens. The concert is free and open to the public. 
liThe Notre Dame Ultimate Team will meet Sunday at 2 p.m. at Stepan Field to assemble NO's first-ever frisbee team. Upcoming tournaments this spring will be at Wisconsin, I.U., and Ohio State. Come prepared to play. 
•Saint 
Mary's senior class will be held on Sunday at 4 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. Bishop D'arcy will be pre­siding. He will be give a short talk afterwards, when re­freshments will be served. 

•Knights 
of the Immaculata will be meeting in the 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 27 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 254,542,370 228.75 + .48 S&P COMPOSITE 413.86 .. 1.49 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,269.45 .. 13.87 

PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLDf-$4.20 to $353.90 
SILVER1} 4.2¢ to $4.1.03/oz. 
INDIANA No evidence Tyson case was fixed 
•INDIANAPOLIS-The county prosecutor's office says it found no evidence that Mike Tyson's rape trial was fixed. The 12 anonymous jurors and three alternates were interviewed by prosecutors after a lawyer claimed to have overheard a juror telling other people at a gym that the guilty verdict was "rigged. ""We uncovered no evidence of any improper conduct by or towards any juror," Rob Smith, a spokesman for Marion County Prosecutor Jeffrey, said Wednesday. Smith said the juror denied making the comment. Tyson was found guilty Feb. 10 of raping a Miss Black America contestant in his hotel room. The charges against the former heavyweight champ carry up to 60 years in prison, but similar cases have brought sentences of 12 years of less. Sentencing is scheduled for March 26. 
Knights of Columbus building at 5:40 p.m. on Sunday, March 1 to watch a video on Mary's alleged apparitions in Garabandal, Spain. All are welcome. 
•An organ recital will be performed by Libor Dudas Sunday, March 1, 1992 at 8 p.m. in the Sacred Heart Basilica. The recital will feature works by Johann Sebastian Bach, Cesar Franck, Max Reger and Franz Schimidt. 
IIJPW pictures can be ordered Monday and Tuesday. March 2 and 3, in Room 108 of LaFortune. Pictures can be ordered at these times only. Call Marianne at 283-417 4 with questions. 
liThe Notre Dame Air Force ROTC Arnold Air Society will be sponsoring a "Battery Drive" as an environmental clean-up project. Students are asked to deposit all their old and used batteries in boxes located at the entrances of all dorms. This service will begin March 17 and will continue through the entire semester. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1849: The ship California arrived at San Francisco, car­rying the first of the gold-seekers. 

• 
In 1861 : The Territory of Colorado was organized. In 1917: The Associated Press reported the United States had intercepted a German communication. The "Zimmerman note" proposed a German alliance with Mexico and Japan should the U.S. enter World War I. 

• 
In 1951: The Senate crime investigating committee headed by Estes Kefauver, D-Tenn., issued a preliminary re­port which said at least two major crime syndicates were operating in the U.S. 

•In 
1983: The television series "MASH" came to an end. 




Friday, February 28, 1992 
TRIO Day to honor ND educational programs 
Special to The Observer 
Participants in three educa­tional opportunity programs at Notre Dame will be honored on the fifth annual national TRIO Day Saturday. 
TRIO is a federally funded project designed to enhance the post-secondary opportunities for economically disadvantaged students. At ND, the program is composed of Upward Bound, Educational Talent Search and the Ronald McNair Post­Baccalaureate Program. 
TRIO Day activities will in­clude recognition of partici­pants who have maintained perfect attendance, honor roll students and those who have 
~ 
~ 
~ 
§ 
C/) 

Summering in Pittsburgh? 
DUQUESNE'S 1992 SUMMER SCHEDULE OFFERS: * TRANSFERABLE COURSES * * ACCELERATED SESSIONS * * START DATES MAY THRU JULY * 
Ask about our wide variety of Science Courses, Language Courses and Trips! 
Registration is EASY-by FAX, phone, mail, or in person 
INTERESTED? CALL 1-800-283-3853 for your complete SUMMER 1992 INFORMATION PACKAGE 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~.-w~h~ic~h~o~u1r~g~overnment oper-be exhaustively enumerated,"
ates, in fact, Barnett said,
~ --------8arnett added. "If the framers had thought of the skepticism, they never would have approved such a short list," he said. "Unenumerated rights have




Money 
no limiting rights," Barnett said. He explained that be-
for 



AL 

Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $3.95 
Voted Best

Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 
Oriental Restaurant 

Our Spring Break Loan is back by popular demand Banquet rooms available for up to 200 in Michiana by130 Dixie Way N., South Bend MidJiana Now 
(probably because it's easier than getting money from your parents!) 
(next to Randall's Inn) 

• Only 12% APR, fixed rate 


Attention SMC and ND students driving to the D.C.jVirginia area 
• 
$1 00 minimum, $500 maximum loan amount 

• 
Deferred Payments 


for Spring Break. 
• Students with good credit or no credit qualify 
SMC/ND Alum Clubs are willing 
No co-signer Is needed. Bring in your student I.D. 
0 
to pay gas, tolls, and food $ for delivery of a school desk 
NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
239-6611 • Independent of the University 

displayed academic progress. Local activities will begin at 10 
a.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. 
The 26-year-old Upward Bound project at Notre Dame offers tutoring and college preparation to Michiana stu­dents from low-income families. 
Talent Search assists with career and educational counseling, re-entry into high school and college and applying for college financial aid. 
The Ronald McNair program, named after the late Challenger astronaut, prepares low-in­come, first-generation college students for graduate educa­tion. 
The Observer 
page3 
-~ ~ ~~"\..~

k \a~ n J:..n J 
\~n L 
The Observer/Jon Novak 

Hit the Buzzer 
Peter Lombardo, associate director for the Center for Continuing Education, prepares students on the College Bowl Team competing this weekend at the University of Indiana at Champagne in regional finals. 
Barnett addresses right of liberty 
By SARAH DORAN "today the Supreme Court's presumption is the reverse." 
News Writer 
Although people may delegate 
Liberty has never been 
powers to the government, they 
deemed by the court to be a 
still retain their original rights 
right, said Professor Randy such as the rights to speak,Barnett of the Chicago Kent 
write, assemble, own propertyLaw School while addressing and have safety, according to
the topic "The Ninth 
Barnett.
Amendment and the 
"Some of these are in the Bill
Presumption of Liberty" 
of Rights, while some are not,"
Wednesday at a Law School 
he said. The included are theForum. 
enumerated rights and the un­
"The Ninth Amendment is­
included are the unenumeratedbased upon the presumption of rights.
liberty and so when the legisla­
The presumption of libertyture encroaches upon the lib­
comes into play when the une­erty of the people, it may be 
mumerated rights are called
challenged and a neutral mag­into question, Barnett said. The
istrate must handle the dis­
danger that the Framers of the 
pute," Barnett said. "This 
Constitution, including Jamesmethod will ensure that peo­Madison {the "Father of The Billple's rights are protected." 
of Rights"), came across wasIn spite of the statement's re­
which rights should be
semblance to the principles by included, since "rights cannot 
cause of the lack of limiting rights of the unenumerated rights, "the outcome of disputes are often determined by the burden of proof." 
Also, use of the Ninth Amendment "must take into ac­count the specifics of the legis­lation and the conquest to which it is applied," Barnett said. He added that we must rely on "justice to define the boundaries to which we may do" when deciding the bounds of the presumption of liberty amendment. 
Barnett said that the Ninth Amendment plays "a pivotal role in constitutional interpre­tation." Actions in the past twenty years have renewed in­terest in the revival of the Ninth Amendment, he added. 
Looking to the future Barnett posed the question "What will the emphasis of conservatism be?" relating to the conserva­tive leanings of the Supreme Court and its effect on the Ninth Amendment. 
Professor Barnett has pub­lished a book on the topic of the Ninth Amendment titled "The Rights Retained By the People." 
Chinese-American 
Restau~ant & 
Cocktail Lounge Authentic Szechuan, 
Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 

r------------------~­
--~-­
page4 
Security Beat 
Thursday, February 20 2 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident re­ported that his locker in the varsity locker room of the JACC had been broken into. He reported several Items of clothing and jewelry missing. 
3:30 p.m. A Grace Hall resident re· ported the theft of his license plate from his vehicle while the vehicle was parked in the D-2 parking lot. 
6:21 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police responded to the report of an accident between a bicycle and a car on Bulla Road. The driver of the bicycle reported having pain and stiffness In his wrist. 
Friday, February 21 
5:30 a.m. Three Grace Hall resl· dents and an off-campus student were questioned in connection to the forgery of Idaho Drivers Ucenses. The Issue was turned over to the Office of Student Affairs. 
6:30 a.m. A University employee reported the theft of a telephone receiver and clock from the Rockne Memorial. 
3:30 p.m. An Alumni Hall resident reported that a tire had been stolen from his car while the vehicle was parked in the D-2 lot. 
4:16 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police responded to the report of a suspicious person at WNDU. The suspect was issued a trespass letter and asked to leave the property. 
10:26 p.m. A St. Edwards Hall resl· dent reported the theft of cash from his unlocked dorm room. 
Saturday, February 22 
2:01 a.m. A St. Mary's College stu· dent reported the theft of her jacket from Theodores. 
2:10 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of his leather jacket from North Dining Hall. 
Monday, February 24 
3:40 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Police officers witnessed two individuals setting off firecrackers at the War Memorial. The suspects were chased and one of them was found hiding under a car in the D·2 lot. The suspect was identified as a Cavanaugh Hall resident. 
4:35 p.m. A visitor to the University reported that his coat had been stolen from the lobby of the Morris Inn. 
6:02 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident re· ported that her license plate had been stolen from her vehicle while her vehicle was parked in the D-6 lot. 
9:18 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police and Notre Dame Fire responded to a fire alarm at Alumni Hall. The fire was contained to a laundry shoot. A student had put out the fire with a fire hose. 
Correction 
In an article in yesterday's edition, The Observer incor­rectly listed where students planning to move off­campus can vote for off­campus co-presidents. These students can vote in their dorms between 11 
a.m. and 1 p.m. and from 5 to 7 p.m. The Observer regrets the error. 

Correction 
In an article in yesterday's edition, The Observer incor­rectly identified David Baker, candidate for Student Senate in District 4 (Mod Quad), as a junior. He is a freshman. The Observer regrets the error. 

Just 
Say 
No 
The Observer 
Friday, February 28, 1992 
Canada 
withdraws 

troops 
TORONTO (AP)-Canada's decision to withdraw its last 1,100 troops from Europe ­after more than 50 years of military presence there -po­tentially has long-term political and economic ramifications. 
The move could weaken Canada's influence in Europe and its trading posture, or it could place Canada at the fore­front of countries developing new strategies in the post-Cold War world, according to vari­ous opinions. 
Canada's government, citing financial concerns, announced this week it would trim $5.95 billion in spending over the next five years, including $1.9 billion from defense. Its 1991 defense budget was $10.9 billion. 

As the sun goes down, the silhouettes of the buildings on campus seem to loom larger than life. "Since September 1991, the 

continued from page 1 

through the new leadership of 
housing is a definite possibility," 
Greg Butrus and Molly O'Neill. 
Gannon concluded. 

However, Gannon and others 

Taxes 
continued from page 1 

class is supporting the burden because Mishawaka and South Bend decide they need money. But they (the two cities) have 


Zoning 
continued from page 1 

property they owned on Notre Dame Ave. and Howard St., this time with the intent to build a private library. However, after South Bend revoked the permit and the owners of Pandora's filed a suit against the city, both parties began to work on a compromise. 
Last fall, the city agreed to rezone the property on the southeast corner of Howard and St. Peter's Sts., which in­cludes Pandora's and two houses, to a C commercial zone. 
enough voting power to do this. It's legal, but not necessarily ethical and moral." 
Marchant said a rally will be held in Mishawaka this Monday, and that all residents or employees in St. Joseph County are encouraged to attend to voice their objections. 
In return, the owners of Pandora's would sell the prop­erty on the corner of Notre Dame Ave. and Howard St., as well as selling the vacant lot across the street from the bookstore, which they had planned to use for parking be­fore last week's decision. 
Wayne and Garth Say "Schyeah, and monkeys might fly out of my behind'' -The Observer 

~n Evening with Langston and Martin" featuring 
DANNY GLOVER (Lethal Weapon)  AND  FELIX JUSTICE (Actor/Director)  
as  as  
Langston Hughes  Dr. Martin Luther King  

Questions to follow 
Wednesday, March 4th 7:30 
P.M. Stepan Center Tickets on sale now at 
LaFortune Info Desk Student Admission $2.00 General Admission $4.00 
world has changed a great deal," Finance Minister Don Mazankowski said in unveiling the 1992 budget on Tuesday. "This has allowed us to reduce our longstanding presence in Europe without lessening our commitment to NATO solidar-

~-----~·---~ -~ ~-~ -~--~ --~--------------------------------------­
-
The Observer 

Friday, February 28, 1992 


Volkov: still hope for Soviets 
By BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 
There is still hope for the fu­ture of the Commonwealth of Independent States based on the growing political stability following the violence of the coup attempted last August, said Leonid Volkov, people's deputy of the Russian Social Democratic Parliament, in a lecture Thursday. 
Volkov, who is also an advisor to Boris Yeltsin and co­chairman of the Russian Social Democratic Party, began his lecture, titled"Russian Politics Since the Coup," with a discus­sion of Mikhail Gorbachev's pe­riod of perestroika. 
He described perestroika as a "period of serious attempts by Gorbachev to change the exist­ing conditions, clean it from features of previous regimes and the dominance of the com­munist party." 
Within pere­stroika,"Gorbachev had seri­ously shaken three most impor­tant pillars of any totalitarian regime," he said. These pillars were ideology, the use of politi­cal terrorism and the KGB, and the communist system hierar­chy, he continued. 
Volkov said Gorbachev de­stroyed the political ideology of the system by dropping the forced daily study of communist articles. In essence, he stopped the "brainwashing," he said. 
By stripping them of their ideology, Gorbachev also re­duced the power of the KGB, Volkov said. He also noted the "state of embarrassment" of the party, which was divided on issues of reform. 
According to Volkov, pere­stroika was "making attempts to construct foundations for new economic and social life," but the economy was restruc­tured without enough guidance to be successful. There was "not a very clear or comprehen­sive national policy," he said. 
Volkov placed the origins of the coup attempt within the ideological disunity in the gov­ernment infrastructure. The attempts to make the economy more progressive, backed by new but unstable power, were blocked by the conservative union government, he said. 
"And so, the economic, politi­cal and social situation came to a moment when it was neces­sary to undertake something like a revolution," Volkov said. 
The victory of the Russian state that evolved from the ac­tivities of the coup was "crucial," Volkov said. However, he also called it a "Phrenic victory" because of its unexpected results. According to Volkov, high members of the communist party, those who had gained from the system and had something to lose, converted to supporters of Yeltsin and tried to make him into their instrument. 
Further problems developed at this time because of a short­age of goods, especially food, Volkov said. The link that had existed between the industrial centers and the agricultural sector was destroyed because of a decline in industry, especially the military industry at the end of the Cold War, he said. 
Moscow became one of the most dangerous places in the country, Volkov said, where fear ran high of total riots. The troops around the city were not under control, and the officer corps threatened to take control into their own hands, he continued. 
The stabilization of the coun­try began with the signing of the treaty of independence of the Commonwealth of Independent States, Volkov said. The new government, comprised of intellectuals such as professors of economics, philosophy and law, was se­lected as a team with the same policies, which added to is sta­bility, he said. 
This new parliament began to "behave as a real, rational par­liament," Volkov added, when it rejected some stances of the government while generally supporting it. 
However, the economic condi­tion of the state raises serious problems. Volkov said Yeltsin's economic policies were based on liberalization of prices, but this policy failed to take into account that there were simply no goods to sell, even at higher prices. 
Although Volkov views the new central government as a "good government," he said that it is still "hanging in the air" because there is no politi­cal or administrative system beneath it. Although many political parties exist, the public still remains wary of parties because they have seen the evils of "the (Communist) party." Most people, instead, place their trust in "charismatic leaders" like Yeltsin, he contin­ued. 
However, Volkov still remains impressed by the work of the government. "Now that some level of political stability exists, there's a chance it will survive," 
he said. 
c  Fl  D  S  
N ~  c.. c::: 1/)- ~ en w  
~  
~  

 ==-­==-­c..::s ~ s::: ~ ~ II'"'-;­-- ~ I (X) w w (X)  -::r m-CD c. z -· tnc 0 (') :::sI» 3 "C :ac::: 1/) c.-.  



Fl E 
j9(\e,.._s(s 
WE CAN'T £:W.K:E 
;duguo3a11 3puepy mo.q saseaJa.t Jta.d asa~p uo SJq aAes '&epuns qlno.np A\ON 

Film, folks and fun The Observer/Meg Kowalski 
Bring friends and have some fun at Morrissey's Film Fest tonight at 9 p.m. at Stepan Center. All proceeds will go to charity. 
ToHelpYou Celebrate The lOTHllnniverstu'Y Of OurBreakfast Bar,Here's J\ PartyFavoc 




$2.99 


Offer valid for alimired time at participating Shoney"s. Not valid with any coupon or other discounred offer. 
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 


fr") .IT
4 
•~' ._""v\....-....,,, t 

page 6 The Observer Friday, February 28, 1992 

Serbian president says Yugoslav civil war over 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) Croat leaders have vowed to -President Slobodan Milosevic fight giving up any territory. of Serbia, who led his republic It remained to be seen into a ruinous conflict with whether Serb militants would Croatia in a failed attempt to go along with Milosevic ­hold Yugoslavia together, de-Croats reported several viola­dared the war over Thursday. tions of the cease-fire on 
In another sign of eased hos-Thursday. But most of the in­tilities, Croatian President surgents are dependent on Franjo Tudjman ordered the Serbia for supplies, and the demobilization of 20,000 re-federal army is dominated by servists in his republic, accord-Serbia. ing to a brief report on the Milosevic, in fact, acknowl­Belgrade-based news agency edged for the first time that his Tanjug. There was no immedi-republic armed the Serb insur­ate confirmation. gents whose revolt against 
Milosevic's declaration ap-Croat authority escalated into peared to be a response to full-scale war after Croatia de­mounting opposition inside dared independence on June Serbia over the war's human 25. and economic toll. Many Serbs Up to 10,000 people died in have turned against the once six months of fighting before popular leader and are de-the truce took effect in Croatia manding his resignation. on Jan. 3. 
"Today we can say that most Croatia and Slovenia have re-of the agony in our country is ceived international recognition over, and that conditions now as independent states, and exist for the peaceful and Bosnia-Hercegovina and democratic solution of the Macedonia are following that The Observer/Jon Novak Yugoslav crisis," Milosevic told path. There also is growing op­Serbia's parliament as a U.N.-position within Montenegro to a Written up mediated truce stretched to union with Serbia, the Yugoslav 
Daniel Hal writes up the tickets for students' infractions of the law on campus.
nearly two months. federation's largest republic. 
In a rare speech, Milosevic "We do not consider war as a also seemed to move away from solution," Milosevic told par-officials in Croatia's capital, by the withdrawal of Yugoslav arms to the insurgents despite previous insistence that Serb-liament, pledging Serbia would Zagreb, reported that about troops. evidence that he was. He told dominated regions in other re-fight only if attacked. "The sol-700 shells had fallen on the He also has power over most parliament that Serbia helped publics be united with Serbia. diers can finally return to their eastern Croatian city of Osijek Serb insurgents because of Croatia's Serbs "first economi­He said Serbia's union with tiny homes and Serbia will finally be and around nearby Vinkovci. their dependence on Serbia for cally and politically ... but fi­Montenegro in a smaller able to deal with its economic There have been almost daily arms. Serbs in eastern Croatia nally, when all this proved in-Yugoslavia was "the best op-problems." truce violations but most have have followed his lead in back-sufficient, with arms." tion." The cost of the war and a been minor. ing the U.N. peace plan from The 600,000 Serbs in Croatia 
But his close ally, prominent European economic embargo the start, and the recent ouster say they fear persecution in an Serb Borisav Jovic, contradicted has left a fourth of Serbia's Milosevic has no direct au-of the main Serb leader in independent Croatia, calling its Milosevic by saying the self-work force unemployed and thority over the federal army, western Croatia indicated nationalist government the proclaimed Serb republic of sent prices shooting up 30 per-but its commanders have said Milosevic has at least some spiritual successor to a Nazi Krajina in western Croatia cent a month. they support a U.N. plan to de-control there. puppet regime that massacred should be part of Yugoslavia. As Milosevic spoke, defense P!OY 1.4.000 p~acekeeping sol-Until Thursday, Milosevic had Serbs in World War II. Serbs 


CAVANAUGH HALL PLAYERS PRESENTS: 


~~~~~~~!
····•·•·
.·.·.·.· 
········ 
1!1!1111 
.... 
I ~ 

.•••••••• WASHINGTON HALL •••••••• ~ FEBRUARY ~:8{029 PM ..••.••.••.••. 
~~~~~t 


FREE ADMISSION 


l:tMlNi'''' ;tDMt.&iWWiiWfii'i'f'''ift{;,b.)}<),,,:,,:•:::;i••}t•'it•t'•t''''i'II''t't''i''••ffXl!MUi&It''i'i''f''•'' ,,,,,•...:'':'/i@Wttt·'·••••:•:•t;t····•,ttrl 




Friday, February 28, 1992 
Education cuts prompt campus philanthropy 
WASHINGTON {AP)-State spending cuts in higher education are prompting ad­ministrators, faculty and stu­dents at some campuses to fight back with philanthropy. 
Although forced tuition in­creases and student protests have been the most common re­sponses to the cutbacks, a number of individuals and groups on campuses around the country have recently decided to give something up to help the neediest students. 
At least three new presidents of colleges or universities chose to forgo elaborate inauguration ceremonies to free up more funds for scholarships. 
The student government of a New York college expanded an emergency loan fund at the ex­pense of student activities. 
The student government at the University of Illinois asked all students to vote on whether they would bear a $40 tuition increase to help students who are losing some of their schol­arship money. And 69 current and former faculty members at the school agreed to contribute to a fund for needy students, whether the tuition increase 
IllALUMNI SENIOR 

i!:CLUB 
STUDENT BARTENDER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM OP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFOR.MA TION DESK. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 5, 1992 

----------~---~--~-­
passes or not. 
The proposal to raise University of Illinois tuition is aimed at offsetting a loss of $924,000 in state scholarships. Results of the referendum were expected late Thursday. 
The very idea of students voting on a tuition increase is remarkable, said Gay Clyburn, spokeswoman for the American Association of State Colleges and Universities. 
"I have never seen students coming up with such an imagi­native proposal," she said in a telephone interview from the organization's Washington of­fice. 
An association survey found that 19 states reduced funding for higher education during fis­cal 1992 and nine more expect to. The average tuition increase in the states that sustained mid­year cuts was 14.4 percent. 
At private Wheelock College in Boston, which suffered a 51 percent cut in state aid, President Gerald Tirozzi directed that the $35,000 be used for scholarships for inner­city students to attend the school. 

The Observer/Meg Kowalski 
Hi, can I help you? 

JoAnn Beissel answers phones for Notre Dame Security. Security receives many calls from students regarding lost or stolen articles. 
House to suspend repatriations 
WASHINGTON (AP} -The House voted Thursday to sus­pend repatriations of Haitian refugees but those still awaiting return are likely to be back in their strife-torn homeland be­fore Congress completes action on the bill. 
The 217-165 vote to impose a six-month moratorium on the Bush administration's repatria­tion program was generally along partisan lines, with Democrats arguing it was needed to protect Haitians from political persecution. 
~ Republicans argued that the measure would only encourage more Haitians to set out on the ) high seas for Florida in rickety, ' leaky boats. The bill faces an uncertain future in the Senate and the Bush administration 
has threatened a presidential veto ifit is enacted by Congress. 
But less than 3,300 Haitians being sheltered at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, are slated to be returned to Haiti and repatriations could be completed before Congress finishes action on the measure. 
The bill would impose a six­month moratorium on the Bush administration's program of returning Haitian boat people to their strife-torn homeland. It would apply to those detained after Feb. 5. 
By a 304-96 vote, the House rejected an amendment by Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., to give temporary protected status to Haitians already in this country or at Guantanamo Bay. 
Without his amendment, Conyers argued that the bill was "a hollow mockery of its stated goal to protect Haitians." If it ever becomes law "it will apply ultimately to practically no one." 
Nearly 16,000 Haitians have fled their poverty-stricken and strife-torn homeland since a Sept. 30 military coup toppled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the country's first democratically elected leader. 
Most were intercepted by the Coast Guard while sailing to­ward Florida in leaky, rickety boats and taken to Guantanamo Bay. 
Nearly 5,300 have been 

_ Ihe Obser:ver 
is accepting applications for the paid positions of Assistant Ad Design Manager and Ad Designer. 
Those interested should be familiar with the Macintosh and have design skills. Contact Kevin Hardman at 239-5305 if any questions. 
cleared by immigration authori­ties to seek political asylum. But more than 7,000 have been sent back to Haiti amid charges by human rights groups that many have suffered persecution. 
The State Department says it has found no evidence that repatriated Haitians were per­secuted. It contends that most Haitians are escaping poverty not persecution and therefore do not qualify for political asy­lum. 
The Bush administration ar­gues that the measure would only encourage more Haitians to leave their country in rickety, leaky boats. 
"Any incentive to attempt this fruitless journey is only a come­on to Haiti's poor," said Rep. Bill Emerson, R-Mo. 
But supporters charged that Haitians were victims of a dou­ble standard because of their race. They noted that the gov­ernment has granted asylum to other victims of political crises. 
"We are asking that the Haitians be treated in the same way we treated the Kuwaitis and the Salvadorans when po­litical persecution threatened these refugees," said Democratic Leader Richard Gephardt of Missouri. 
"We are asking for a color­blind concept of political sanc­tuary that honors Haitians for their humanity rather than sin­gling them out because they are black," Gephardt said. 



page 8 

Unrest continues in Albanian towns 

NOTRE DAME/ST. MARY'S STUDENTS ARE SMARTER That's why we brought our Papa John's franchise to South Bend 
Papa John's gives you ~~~~s·s··g!}i "they" give you :---~-L:~-;---1 
lOne 14" Pizza •Tax I 1 Q · I 1 One Topping 9:00p.m. eoclo&e 1 1 Cheese P1zza 1 1-....n_.&... ~ I I $6 99 I: rO'~~~ ..J 
..-----..;------1

NotV.... WolhAnyOihuCoopn OpmbLunchl .. I I
I ••••••••••• 1 TwoMediumPizzas Papa John's never gives you limited portions or tells you what to 1 Five Toppings I 
order' even when we run a special. "They" give you : Sausage, p!~p~;oni, Onions. : 1 Mushrooms, & Green Peppers I 1 (Limited Portions. No Substitutes) I I I 
I
..-------------1
1 We now honor all I

Papa John's coupons are so good that "they" 
r 
I competitors ; /"' ; coupons. 1


-----------·~ ~· 
I ~i--l4'1 I
I -I 1-------------~
Papa John's gives you 1·.~~, 1 "they" give you 
I Medium 12" I 

I I : 1-Topping I 
I I 1 Pizza ; I $5.99 I
I I I I 





I I 1-------------·
I Valid With Any Otl~r Coupon I 
Use that intelligent brain••••use that common sense••••
·------------' 
Call Papa John's 
The Observer Friday, February 28, 1992 

Riot occurs at Soviet space center 
MOSCOW (AP) -Poor food, hazing and beatings helped set the stage for riots by hundreds of soldiers at the former Soviet Union's main space center, newspapers said Thursday. 
Three people were killed in the violence Monday and Tues­day at the Baikonur Cosmod­rome, where angry soldiers re­portedly looted supplies and burned barracks. The unrest reflects deep problems in the former Soviet army, including falling morale and mistreat­ment of recruits. 
Because the space program was among the Soviet Union's proudest achievements, the ri­ots also were a poignant demonstration of how far ­and fast -the country has fallen into disorder. 
The rioting at the 37 -year-old space center in the barren steppes of central Kazakhstan did not disrupt operations or affect the flight of the Mir space station, where cosmonauts Sergei Krikalev and Alexander Volkov remain in orbit. They are scheduled to return next month. 
Krikalev blasted off from 81)/konur on May 18 for what was supposed to be a three­month mission, but his return has been delayed by the politi­cal and economic turmoil back home. 
The riots involved several hundred of the 17,000 soldiers assigned to construction jobs at the cosmodrome, about 1,560 miles southeast of Moscow. 

POGRADEC, Albania (AP) ­Thousands of looters, some armed and drunk, rampaged for a third day Thursday in this western Albanian town, and police seemed helpless or un­willing to stop them. 
Mobs also raided a drug store and two goods depots and set them on fire in the central town of Lushnje, said Fadil Canaj, deputy minister of public order. Police repelled an attack on a plastics factory there, he said. 
Unrest has been reported throughout Europe's poorest country as citizens struggle to survive a tough winter and the legacy of 46 years of Communist rule. 
State radio said Wednesday that two people were crushed to death during rioting in Pogradec, a town of 25,000 on the shore of Lake Ohrid. One man also was reported killed in earlier food riots in Lushnje. 
On Thursday in Pogradec, 10 state warehouses were emptied of everything from Western food aid to wicker baskets and industrial chemicals, with en­tire families carting off all they could carry, said one police­man, Pirro Kacorri. 
Chemicals steamed in the mud on a main street where they apparently were spilled, sending up fumes that caused watery eyes and headaches among people in the area. 
Police said some looters ap­peared drunk after a stock of alcoholic beverages was taken from a warehouse. Police made occasional efforts to stop loot­ers by firing over their heads, but with little effect. 
The looters also ransacked stores -even taking windows that had been pried from their frames -and loaded their booty onto trucks, wagons and donkeys. 
Looted goods included items like canned meat that some town inhabitants claimed they had not seen for seven or eight years. 
While there were no reports of casualties on Thursday, Pogradec was a scene of devas­tation and chaos. 
"It is impossible and illegal for police to open fire," said of­ficer Kacorri, adding he would not shoot at people he knows "because tomorrow their fami­lies would kill me." 
Some civilians also fired weapons in the air, and two journalists were warned at gunpoint to leave the town, 80 miles southeast of the capital, Tirana. 
The Democratic Party, the country's biggest anti­Communist group, charges that the Socialists -the former Communist Party -are en­couraging unrest to discredit democracy. Albania is sched­uled to hold national elections next month. 
Edmomd Prishtine, a 31-year­old bricklayer, blamed the riot­ing on corruption by "former Communists" in the govern­ment and said they were ma­nipulating foreign aid supplies for their own profit. 
"People know that there is food in the depots, but it is not being sent to the shops," he said. 


--~--~---~------~ -----------~------­
The Observer page9
Friday, February 28, 1992 

Report of AIDS cases may injure community 
BOGATA, Texas (AP) ­Residents of this small north­eastern Texas town see no quick recovery from the ugly transformation caused by an AIDS counselor's report that an unusually large number of local teen-agers carry the AIDS virus. 
"It's going to take a long time for this town to recover from this," Denise Wood, editor of the weekly Bogata News, said Thursday, a day after Dona Spence unexpectedly resigned from the Ark-Tex Council of Governments. "Our town is scarred. Her credibility is zero." 
Three weeks ago, the town made headlines when the Dallas Morning News reported that high school basketball teams were refusing to play nearby Rivercrest High School because of Spence's claim. She said six of 197 students at Rivercrest tested positive. 
The resulting publicity, Wood said, turned a cheerful farming community into one hurt and distrustful of outsiders. 
"This is a town where you leave your keys in the car when you go to the store," she said. "The whole town is very anti­Dona right now." 
The Ark-Texas council, under contract to the state Health Department to provide AIDS education and counseling to the region, asked the Health Department to verify Spence's findings. 
Dr. Charles Bell, who heads the department's AIDS unit, said Wednesday that officials found nothing in Spence's files to verify the information or prove her wrong. He said the files indicated she was working with 13 infected students at northeast Texas schools, but didn't identify the schools at­tended by the students. 
Rivercrest students directed their anger at the media. Few would talk Thursday. 
"I don't think they're mad at her because they didn't believe her in the first place," said 18­year-old Tiffany Parish. "And besides, hoax or no, Spence ac­complished her original mis­sion, to educate the area about AIDS. 
"Now they know it can hap­pen." 
Spence has changed her tele­phone number. No one was at her home Wednesday night or Thursday. 
But she remains the talk of the town. 
Down the street from Wood's office is Bogata's main coffee shop, the Armadillo Store. Each morning, many of the local men drink coffee there. 
Roy Morris, a resident for more than 20 years, said the talk centers on current events: the recession, the presidential race and education. 

The Observer/Jon Novak 

Shiny, red fire engine 
This Notre Dame fire engine is parked and ready to be used if a fire breaks out on campus. 
Jacobson trial nears hands of jury 

The Observer is looking lor the paid positions ol 

SMC DAY EDITORS 
Submit I page resume to Anna Marie Tabor Rm 406 McCandless or leave at the lront desk ol McCandless by Monday at s:oo pm. 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. (AP) ­Cecil Jacobson "lied and lied again" when he denied tricking women into believing they were pregnant and deceiving other patients about the source of the sperm used to inseminate them, a prosecutor said in closing ar­guments of the doctor's fraud and perjury trial. 
Jacobson is "a man who rou­tinely lies to his own patients," prosecutor Randy Bellows told the U.S. District Court jury. 
If Jacobson had treated his patients properly, "women would not have left his office believing they had received the greatest news of their lives," that they were pregnant when they actually were not, Bellows said. 
Defense attorney James Tate was expected to give his closing argument later in the day. The 
d to go to the eight-woman, four-man jury Friday morning. 
On Wednesday, Jacobson ac­knowledged that he sometimes used his own sperm to insemi­nate patients, but said there was nothing wrong with that practice. And he told the jury that "it is my firm testimony that I did not lie" to them about donor identities. "I was never that frequently used as a donor," he said. 
Jacobson is charged with 52 counts of fraud and perjury. 
He is accused of using hor­mone injections to trick women into believing they were preg­nant, and of using his own sperm while claiming to use an anonymous donor program. 
Jacobson knew the hormone injections were creating false positive pregnancy tests, Bellows said. 
"He knew he could tell a woman any time he wanted that she was pregnant and that all it took was a bottle of HCG," the hormone he used, the prosecu­tor said. 
The prosecution has pre­sented genetic testing evidence that they say shows a 99.9-per­cent probability that Jacobson fathered 15 children by artifi­cial insemination patients. 
Eleven men and women testi­fied under anonymity that the doctor promised to match their husbands' physical characteris­tics and even religion, and that he promised that the donor would never know who they were. 
"Dr. Jacobson lied to these 11 men and women and lied to them about the single most im­portant matter in their lives," the prosecutor said. 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~---------------~ 



Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, February 28, 1992 
Wasted food from JPW was Last minute candidates say thanks 
Dear Editor: to photocopy them with our some of our classmates an
also a wasted opportunity 
own pocket change. Armed alternative. We call upon the with 28 pieces of propaganda newly elected officers to Dear Editor: a friend of mine saw some of Let me take the time to tell designed to elicit votes from deviate a little from the typical Last week in the Mr. Manners the workers scraping the com­you a little story. At about our fellow sophomores, my "Notre Dame" agenda of section of the Scholastic pleted plates into the trash. 12:20 a.m. on Monday the roommate and I pedaled to catering to the administration. Constance Wyne wrote in com­Essentially, about one hundred 24th, my roommate and I every dorm on campus. We Put the Junior class first in plaining that she saw the same uneaten and perfectly good were discussing the election to distributed our poster to every everything you do. Make some 
rice used for the dinners during plates of food were thrown be held later that day. residence hall, hoping that difference. JPW in the dining halls. She away. Disenchanted with the they would be seen and read was afraid that they scraped monotony of the platforms in the nine hours before the food off of the used plates and presented by the tickets, and voting began. The ticket of Doring, silverware and fed it to the stu­I could not believe the waste. disturbed by the fact that we Dobranski, Sheridan, and dents at the dining halls. In This University says it is were given only two choices, Eichelberger would like to fact, it was much worse. committed to the South Bend we decided to take a little ini­When the returns were in, thank our supporters. We 
area, in which there are a good tiative. we realized that we had not know it must have been tough 
I worked plate up during the number of homeless people. done all our/edaling in vain. to vote for a ticket when you JPW Saturday night dinner. We While celebratin~ the accom­We gathere over 50 votes, didn't know what they looked were arranged in assembly plishments of their children at Enlisting two of our class­around eight percent of all like. lines of three people each. One the nation's leading Catholic mates, we formed a ticket in votes cast. To our surprise, we person would put the rice on University, parents were paying the next few minutes. even held a majority in one MaHhew Doring the plate, the next person the for food to be thrown out. Following that, we drew a sign dorm, Fisher Hall. We may not Fisher Hall 
chicken and sauce, and the last with markers and proceeded have won, but at least we gave Feb.25,1992 person the broccoli. We assembled plates continuously I do not understand why the until all the trays of food in the plates of food could not be 

L'Arche Community residents worth a visit 
hot boxes were empty. taken down to some homeless shelter and fed to people who Dear Editor: "assistants," but both residents a well-known spiritual writer, a In fact, we assembled so many really could use it. This would and assistants work together in priest, and a one-time Notre 
plates that there were about a have been the most basic This past Christmas I cooking, cleaning, yard work, Dame psychology professor. hundred extra plates, which Christian service. One hundred participated in Notre Dame's and other household activities. they stored in separate boxes. plates of food not even breathed Urban Plunge in Mobile, The L'Arche members and After eating the dinner they on, gone, and no use to anyone. Alabama. Part of my 48-hour residents will visit classes on provided for the workers, we all Sucfi a waste is reprehensible, immersion into inner-city life The most striking part of life Friday, be hosted at a lunch at 
went back downstairs to clean to say the least. included an overnight stay at at L'Arche that I personally en­Keenan, and participate in a up. the L'Arche Community in countered was the simplicity community evening prayer. On Beth Sbaschlng Mobile. and love that pervades the Saturday there will be an after­While I was washing some of Pasquerllla East community. My fondest memo­noon of reflection and prayer at the serving utensils in the back, Feb.23,1992 ries include clearing the dinner the esc followed by a supper
The first L'Arche Community table with these "disabled" res­and farewell celebration. was established in France in idents, listening to their son~s 1964 when Jean Vanier and wild tales, and joining m Speaking from my own expe­welcomed two handicapped their nightly prayer circle. I riences with L'Arche, I would men into his home to live with realized that this family had strongly encourage anyone in­him. L'Arche, French for "ark," more love and fewer problems terested to meet these extraor­was started as a refuge and than many "normal" families I dinary people. I hope the stu­permanent home for the two have known. dents of Notre Dame will be developmentally disabled willin~ to share their time, love, adults. Since then, L'Arche has L'Arche residents will be visit­and g~fts to enrich both the lives grown to 93 communities in 25 ing Notre Dame during the of the residents as well as their countries. weekend of March 19-22. A own lives. Further information 
member of the L'Arche com­concerning the weekend can be munity in Toronto, Henri obtained at the CSC from Sandy

Most L'Arche residents have Nouwen, will reflect on"God's Barton. lost touch with their own Love Experienced in families after living in state in­Community on Thursday, Suzy Fodor stitutions. The community is March 19, at 7:30p.m. in the Lewis Hall staffed by a few volunteer Library Auditorium. Nouwen is Feb.24,1992 

I'lr15URE IT''3 IN HER&

THeRE.Wa<'/3 /Jll3RAU.Y 1,001 
q)'rffti.J-IEI<{;. A? I P£C4tl.,I

NAYS 7D BeAT TH& !?RAfT, ANP 
I WON lltffl<MfNTPJflHA

I 7RJ/3/? AlM05rAU {J=-7Hf3M. 
PACJ<A6,5 CFSPIR!7UAL-ANP

THAT'S /AJHY I'V/3 60Tq;MUCH 
PHY51CAL-tx£MPT/ONS ...

PAPI3RJ.tJORI<. 

GARRY TRUDEAU 

"IJI5AR MR. HARR/'3: 
/N~C&7V 
YOUR CLAIM OF 
THAT'S

BC!NG A H()M()StXI)AL 
IT/

5HAMAN IU!TH A 
7RJCI<.!<Nt&..." 
I 
\ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'It was the best of times, it was the worst of times. The sun may set and the sun may rise, but The Observer will always be there to greet you.' -John O'Brien Accent Editor Emeritus 

--Ih_-e _Q_.bse.-~~o._
. . ----&.-=-Y=-~A.---­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
.. 

L=-,---­
:::::;; ;f!kC.. ··-­
= 





Viewpoint
Friday, February 28, 1992 page 11 

Media capable of manipulating o .. ~reactions 
Imagine my avuncular 
Andrew Cutrofello 
delight when Marla called to tell me that the former head of 
Subterranean Homesick the Soviet Union was now a 
Politics columnist for The New York 
Still struggling with the com­Times. 
plex origami logic of non­tabloid newspaper folding, I
"How about that," I said, 
noted, "Well, a lot ofyeople
shaking my head. "Me and 
think socialism is dead. 
Mikhail Sergeyvitch. Fellow­"A lot of people with vested
travellers of the Fourth 
interests in the marketplaceEstate." 
want the rest of us to think
"Yeah, right," Maria snorted. 
that," Maria suggested, watch­"No offense, buddy, but with ing me struggle with fourteenyou it's more like the Fifth or unwieldy pages of newsprint. 
Sixth Estate." 
"People form their own opin­"Boy, does that take me back ions, don't they?" 
to my days as a cub reporter," I waxed nostal~ic. "Well, I 
Yes and no," Maria said.
guess it's only fittmg for an old "You know, the media play ahand like me to take the young tremendously powerful role in
pup out for lunch the next determining how we think.
time I see him. Show Mr. 
Just by specifying a basic
Perestroika a few tricks of the vocabulary which determinestrade." 
the parameters of political discourse."
Later that afternoon, I stopped by Maria's office to re­"Can you give me an exam­the issue?" I asked, picking up charging interest was deemed keep the reader thinking that turn a book I had borrowed. 
ple?" I asked, putting down a .r.encil to fidget with. to be "repugnant" to Islam.' no one who is rational wouldShe had a copy of the Times 
the crumbled pages. You First of all, the headline But they never bother to ever think of criticizing
on her desk. After realizing 
would think some refers to those who support explain the court's reasons for capitalist institutions." 
that they had forgotten to run 
mathematics Ph.D. candidate the court's ruling as Islamic finding the practice "Exactly," Maria agreed.
the comics section that day, I 
specializing in topology would militants.' And in the article, repugnant." "Which is why it's refreshingflipped to the op-ed page to write her dissertation on the the position which they take is to see that the Times is at
take a look at Gorbachev's 
impossibility of folding The labeled extremist." Suddenly realizing that the least giving Gorbachev afirst column. Really, it wasn't 
New York Times into a "So?" pencil I had been gnawing at chance to make the case fortoo bad-for a rookie. 
tabloid-like form. was Maria's, I put it back socialist institutions. Who "To call a group of people down on the desk. "They don't knows? Maybe the next time"Hey, listen to this," I said to "Sure, I'll find an example," 'militants' and 'extremists' say anything about why the that George Bush calls theMaria, as I tried to master the 
Maria said, straightening out simply because they question court found it repugnant?" idea of a national health careart of folding a non-tabloid the pages I had mangled. "OK, a fundamental element of "Right. And this is to give the pro&ram 'socialist,' peoplenewspaper. "According to the here's a case in point. The capitalist economics is to slant impression that Islamic funda­won t automatically assume
Gorbmeister, 'we can no 
Times has an article about the story in a pretty significant mentalists don't reason. What that's he's using a curse
longer set capitalism and 
how a fundamentalist Islamic way. For that matter, why not possible reasons could they word."
socialism against each other, 
court in Pakistan has say that some Pakistanis were have? The decision is militant' 
as if we were living in an age 
condemned all forms of mone­challenging capitalist and 'extremist,' so it must be Maria's argument was prettyof religious wars. 
tary interest-in domestic fundamentalists?"' completely irrational. Anyone convincing, I thought. bankin~ and in international who reads the article is sup­Plus I couldn't help but be
"Yes, that's an interesting 
borrowmg and lending. Many Chewing on the pencil P.osed to come away thinking, impressed by the fact as we
comparison," Marla com­
Pakistanis disagree, including thoughtfully, I said, "So this Those crazy Islamic had been talkins she had
mented, tapping a pencil 
some who consider themselves group is morally opposed to fundamentalists. How deftly folded the Times into a eraser on the ink blotter in to be Islamic fundamentalists usury, huh?" irrational of them.' As if only a neat little New York Post-stylefront of her. "Although when as well. The ruling is said to "For all the information the militant extremist could package.
you look at countries like 
have 'threatened' the Prime Times gives us, who could possibly object to the capitalist 
Northern Ireland, Pakistan 
Minister's efforts 'to steer say? They manipulate our practice of lending money at Andrew Cutrof.ello is a
and Iran, it seems a little 
Pakistan's economy away from reaction to the story as much frequently exorbitant rates." professor of phrlosophy at 
premature to suggest that 
state planning and toward free by what they leave out as by Saint Mary's College. Hiswe've emerged from the age markets."' what they put in. For example, I watched Marla try to fold columns appear every otherof religious wars." 
"So how is the Times slanting they say that the practice of the paper. "So the idea is to Friday. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Hate-crime statutes can violate First Amendment rights 
Dear Editor: growing debate over whether Most of these statutes provide an incident in St. Paul, offensive, and who is to be pro­such laws unconstitutionally vi­penalties for crimes already on Minnesota, where two young tected? Free speech advocates 
On Thursday, March 5 at 3 olate the First Amendment the books, such as trespass or men burned a cross in front of have asserted that the language p.m., Judge Boggs of the Sixth guarantee of free speech. assault, and then add stiffer the home of a black couple who of the St. Paul statute is so Circuit will be in the courtroom This debate has split the civil penalties if the crime was moti­had become the first black broad that it could criminalize of the Law School to address rights community and united vated by hate or bias. These family to move into a working even the artistic expression of one of the more frightenin~ de­such advocacy groups as the ordinances are roughly analo­class neighborhood in east St. symbols which might be likelyvelopments in recent le~Isla­American Civil Liberties Union gous to the so-called "politically Paul. to offend. tion. This discussion, which is and the Center for Individual correct" campus codes, which open to all students, will focus Rights, who argue that such seek to govern speech on One of the two men plead While almost everyone can on "hate crime" laws, which laws are unconstitutional. college campuses by outlawing guilty to violating the hate agree that burning a cross in make certain expressions of These ordinances typically pro­the expression of ideas that are crime ordinance and was sen­someone's front lawn is a dan­hate a crime in themselves. vide for criminal sanctions thought to be inflammatory. tenced to 30 days in jail. The gerous and repulsive form of 
against those who place on other individual, however, was self-expression, the same can­
As of December 1, 1991, all public or private property a In December, the Supreme charged both under the ordi­not be said for other protectedbut four states in this country symbol or object which the per­Court of the United States heard nance and with assault in the forms of symbolic speech, such had some form of statute deal­petrator knows will arouse arguments regarding the fourth degree. This young man as fla~ burning. There is no ing with "bias-motivated" acts. anger or resentment in others. constitutionality of such challenged the hate crime ordi­doubt m the St. Paul case that These acts have touched off a statutes. The case arose from nance as unconstitutional. the act of burning a cross on 
someone's front lawn in the 

While even the most middle of the night was a crime adamant civil libertarians do that could have been prose­not want to condone cross cuted under several different burning, advocacy groups from criminal laws. all over the political spectrum have united to fight these Is it really necessary, in a ordinances. Proponents of hate country that values free speech,crime statutes, including the that we should allow laws to NAACP and People for the exist which say that expressingAmerican Way, maintain that certain ideas, no matter how 
---""""'~ut:: victims of racist and sexist offensive, is in itself a crime? n are weak and groups who cannot For speech to be free, it must ctively utilize the legal be free for everyone, and not system to fight back. just a select few. While strongly disagree with the racist 
While perhaps a persuasive expressions promulgated by argument, the utilization of the hate groups, there are other judiciary and the legislature as ways within the legal system to a means to channel and outlaw deal with such disgusting acts forms of free speech is a dan­of spite. Allowing the First gerous step in the wrong direc­Amendment to be used as a tion. The biggest problem asso­prosecutorial weapon on behalf ciated with such statutes is that of those who are selectively of­they necessarily single out par­fended is a dangerous abridg­ticular groups for protection. ment of everyone's constitu­
tional rights. 

Do we really want to trust g,overnment officials or judges, Mark E. Laughman1f given the power, to decide Law School what forms of expression are Feb.24,1992 


Variety, energy and color make BCAF F 


weekend calendar 
friday 
MUSIC Freddie Jonea Band, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m. Jack and the Beanatalk, Bridget's, 1 0 p.m. 
Perfect World, Club 23, 1 0 p.m. 
Dead Silence Bend, Midway Tavern, 9:30p.m. 
One Trick Pony, Grace Coffeehouse, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS 
Sophomore Uterary Fntlval: Toby Olaon, Hesburgh 
Library Auditorium, 8 p.m. Henry V, Main Gallery, Architecture Building, 8:10p.m. Stepping OUt, Little Theatre, Saint Mary's, 8 p.m. 

saturday 
MUSIC 
E.Z. Ed and Funkmelater, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m. Perfect World, Club 23, 10 p.m. Dead Silence Band, Midway Tavern, 9:30 p.m. 
EVENTS 
Henry V, Main Gallery, Architecture Building, 3:10 & 8:10p.m. Stepping Out, Little Theatre, Saint Mary's, 8 p.m. 

sunday 
EVENTS 
Stepping Out, Little Theatre, Saint Mary's, 2:30 p.m. 
Concert, Annenberg Auditorium, 2 p.m. 

films 
FRIDAY 
"The Flaher King," Cushing Auditorium, 8 &10:30 p.m. "An Angel at My Table," Annenberg Auditorium, 6:30 & 9:30p.m. 
SATURDAY 
"The Flaher King," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. "An Angel at My Table," Annenberg Auditorium, 6:30 & 9:30p.m. 
By SHONDA WILSON Assistant Accent Editor 
L 
ooking for a "Rated-R" time, R standing for Red-hot? Check out the Black Cultural Arts Festival's 5th annual Fashion Show. 
"Rated R" was selected as the 
theme of this year's fashion show 
not because it is expected to be an 
X-rated show or only for people 
over 17, says fashion show co­
coordinator and BCAF co-president 
Tish Powell, but because the music 
for the introductory scene is 
"Rated-R" by Ralph Tesvant. 
To extend this idea, each model 
has been given a nickname for the 
show that begins with the letter R. 
Some examples of names include 
Risque or Raw. After about a month 
of preparation for the show, the 
members of the show have gotten 
to know one another quite well so 
that they feel that most of the 
names adequately describe each 
model. 

Taking place Saturday at 7 p.m. 
in the Monogram Room of the Joyce 
ACC, the fashion show will exhibit 
Notre Dame as well as South Bend 
talent. Featuring Designer 
originals by Jay Ganger, Fuddie 
Lewis, and Queen Toppin, as well 
as various contributions from South 
Bend and Mishawaka Retail Stores, 
not to mention the talented ND 
models, the show will exhibit a 
variety of styles. 

Lewis, a local designer, has been 
showcasing his creations in the 
By TIM ROGERS Accent Writer 
BCAF fashion show for years, 
whereas this is Ganger's second 
year with the show. Although Topin 
is not a newcomer either, this is 
the first year that all three 
designers will have their work 
shown together as this is the first 
time that three designers have been 
showcased in the same show. 
According to Lewis his designs will be "unpredictable." He expects to showcase bright colors as far as cocktail and evening wear is concerned. He also expects to provided some oversized jackets with novelty prints such as cartoons., things one can "have fun wearing." 
"One goal that I have," says Powell, "is to showcase a lot more original talent, get those creative juices flowing" 
Powell also hopes to expose several of the African American­owned businesses in the area. For example, the fashion show is being advertised on Smokin' 99.1 WSMK, a local radio station geared toward African Americans, in an effort to appeal to the African American community in South Bend. 
This is done to reach another goal of the show, "to bridge the gap between the Black community at Notre Dame and Black merchants in South Bend because the University has a tendancy to separate itself from the (South Bend) community," says Powell. 
Rices records is another black owned business that has contributed to the show. They have contributed clothes and will serve as ticket sellers. The fashion show 
coordinators have 
point of advertising in 
shops. 
Hair and make up 
done professionally ~ 
The Stevie D's, a local 
salon, will style the 
men, while the Atlant 
another black owned h 
create hair styles for 
These new additions 
are used to expose I 
Amerian hair salons 
ND students, says Pow 
'' 

although we do have (at Notre Dame). peop they have a choice. Th records at the book there's also Rices," "It's important (to t support our own bee only way we'll get an makes sense," she says 
"Although the show geared toward Afrian is not just a black e Powel. This year, t models are caucasian seeing white models ( will make more stude comfortable going t says Powell. 
Another new facet o that the models will varying shapes and si unique to almost "Because we all come shapes and sizes, it w 


I 
f you go to a Howie Mandel concert, be careful. 
Don't heckle. You might wind 
up, as one heckler did, watch­
ing the rest of the show from the stage, where the audience can get a better look at you. Don't even leave to go to the bathroom. Mandel might, as he once did, ask your friends to hide before you return. In short, if you go to a Howie Mandel concert, be prepared to participate. 
Mandel likes to improvise. The audience is his main prop. "I am one half of a comedy team that comes to town to find my other half," Mandel told The Indianapolis Star. 
The unpredictability of the audience forces Mandel to think on his feet. Walking out in front of a few thousand strangers without much prepared 
material gives him a rush. 
"When you're on a ride and you're tossed three stories in the air and you're upside down and you're brought just inches from nausea and death and you go WOW! Let's go on again. That's the kind of feeling that I get the whole time I'm on stage," Mandel told Steppin' Out Magazine. 
'Don't even leave to go to the bathroom. Mandel might, as he once did, ask your friends to hide before you return. In short, if you go to a Howie Mandel concert, be prepared to participate.' 
Mandel first found his talent for stand­up comedy during a business trip to L.A. from his native Canada. Besides selling carpets, he also distri-' buted a toy called the Uncle Sherman flasher d o I I . Mandel had trouble shi had genitals, separately. W stuck at the bo 
L.A. to find ou went to the C night. 
After three contorting o producer had s signed to appf show called "M audition, he w. minute to make laugh. So Man 

----------~­
------------------------------------------------------~--------~ 

shion Show rated R Morrissey 
lso made a sense that all the models be size IBlack owned three. This will give people a better idea about what (the clothes) will 
~ill also be look like on them," says Powell. r the show. The show coordinators hope to black owned apppeal to more that just college 
air for the students. They hope to provide Connection, fashions for a variety of people in a ir salon will variety of colors. Organized by the women. scenes, there will be a career wear 
o 
the show scene, casual scene, black/white cal, African wear, sports wear/swim wear, specially for formal wear, club wear, and a 

U. 
lingerie scene. 


r 
These R-rated clothes will come e ' v e from stores in UP Mall and Indian 
selected Ridge Plaza, while make-up artist t h e s e Lisa Thomas of Hudsons will do the places make-up for the show. because Music will be provided by Dale 
hair salons Minor of Rice Records. 
The mcees for the show include y ~~~.~~:~ Mike Swanson and Kendra store, but Washington, who will also be rated ys Powell. R. Unfortunatly, their R-rating can ~e BCAF) to not be revealed until the night of 
11.use its the the show. 
vhere. It just Lisa Valenta and Danny Lenard will perform dual roles in the show. Not only are they models, but they 
is primarily will also serve as art directors. Special effort went into the show
l[mericans, it 
vent," says from Yvette Davison who served as o of the 13 a co-coordinator for the fashion "Hopefully show, James Suttle, co-president of the show) the BCAF and Tom Steele, special 
ts feel more efforts coordinator. the show," 
Tickets for the show are $6 for ·the show is students at the Lafortune Student all come in Center, $8 for non-students and $10 ~es. This is at the door. The after party will any show. take place at Theodores and is free lin different with a ticket stub from the fashion ruldn't make show but $2 without a ticket stub. 
By JEANNIE SHIN 
Accent Writer 
F 
or Keenan, it's the Keenan Review. For Stanford, the Mr. Stanford Contest. For Fisher, the Fisher Regatta. Each active dorm on campus is distinguished by the spirit of an annual event. 
And for Morrissey Manor, it's the Morrissey Film

in the Black Cultural Arts 
Fest that builds their sense of identity.
1 Show are models, Bobby ny Leonard. 
The Fourth Annual Morrissey Film Fest, a collective

tarsing for the event, Latrece 
showing of student-made films, is scheduled to take place
a DuBose and Allong stroll down 
tonight at nine o'clock. Unlike the years before, it will be held at Stepan Center. 
rell, Co-coordinator, Eric Bailey tctice their poses. 
"This year the show has taken on a completely different The Observer/Pat Mchugh look. Before, its been more of an 'off the cuff,' humorous show. It seems, this year its taken on a more professional approach," said Senior, Brian Shortal, Program Chairman. Furthermore, there is a notable upgrade in the quality of the films, according to Shortal. 
"The Film Fest has grown more than we had ever ex­


pected ... Last year we had to turn people away at the door," said Shortal. The growing popularity of the show required 

a promotion from the Library Auditorium, where it was originally held, to the Stephan Center. The larger facility is expected to host 500-700 more people than last year. 
Because of this growth, "we're trying to appeal to a larger crowd," commented Shortal. Films submitted by various dorms as well as off campus students are critiqued by a panel ofjudges ranging from freshmen to rectors. From the fifteen to twenty entries, eight original films are selected based on the overall entertainment value. The first place prize is $100. 
"It offers a great opportunity for ND students to show their talent," said Shortal. There is a wide range of films produced by people working with the camera for the first time to film majors. 
__,­

Not only does the film fest provide an entertainment ser­vice, but a community service as well, said Shortal "We're taking ND talent and we're able 
to channel that to give back to the community," commented Shortal. All the profits from the Morrissey Film Fest go di­rectly to St. Hedwigs, an outreach center for the youths of Southbend. 
Although admission is free of charge, donations will be taken at the door. 

the doll because it h were shipped en a gross of them got der, Mandel traveled to why. That's when he medy Store's amateur 
nutes of screaming and stage, a television en enough. Mandel was r on a comedy game 
ke Me Laugh." For his 
s told that he had one he producer's secretary I tickled her. 
From there, Mandel went on to play the part of Dr. Wayne Fiscus on the hit series "St. Elsewhere." He's done several HBO specials and released one album, "Howie Mandel Fits Like A Glove." He has also done several critically unacclaimed films including "A Fine Mess" and "Little Monster." And, his was the voice of Gizmo in "Gremlins." 
If you could handle a good time, Mandel will perform Sunday, March 1 at Stepan Center in an SUB-sponsored concert. Tickets are $10 for students, $15 for real people. 
page 14 Friday, February 28, 1992 


r In the silly season, even priests get the blues 
Priests cry too, you know, and haps we were too aware of 
Story, they may doubt that it's not simply because they're ourselves as members of the credible. pained by all the Church-bash­Mystical Body to be guilty as Father Robert Griffin I suspect that the current cri­ing that goes on. Priests hear clerics of the error of chauvin­sis which can make priests cry the cry of the poor; how can it ism. The seminaries were Letters to a Lonely God began in 1968, when priests, be otherwise when the ideal staffed by Sisters who had de­rightly or wrongly, encouraged held up to them all their lives is voted their lives to caring for the faithful to set aside the of­to put on the mind of Christ? boys on the way to the priest­ficial teaching of the Church on 
The seminaries I attended en­hood. of a fellow's faith in God, and to the bashers, as much as they'd birth control, and follow their couraged me to love the Lord We respected the Sisters for exorcise the magic of the like to, can tell me the one thing consciences. The freedom of his and care for His people, and to being closer to God than we "Arabian Nights" from his that would cause me to lose conscience is the dearest free­stay mindful of the tradition of were, and for living a hidden mind. For a starter, I was re­hope in the Church: they can't dom that a Catholic has. As a brotherhood that came down to life that was close to heroic. We quired to live for two years in a tell me that the old, old story of battle cry of freedom in a sex­us from Christ. Celibacy, believe sensed that if ever we were crumbling house on the edge of Jesus and His love isn't true. ual revolution, it can raise hell me, does not make a lad less tempted to upstage the holy a lake, praying each daybreak If the Gospel of salvation is with moral teachings hundreds conscious of his humanity, or of women who kept us honest by in a chilly chapel, and surviving true, how can you deny that the of years old. his sexual nature, and perhaps their example of humility, we on food catered for Oliver Church, which keeps the old, When dominoes begin to fall It concentrates his mind could doom ourselves to take Twist's workhouse. Such a old story alive has been en­in a row, where is the check­wonderfully to sleep alone. pratfalls which would shame marginal existence leaves you trusted with the mission to lead point? Where is the of check­
Anti-clericals seem to assume our vocations. feeling mystically demoted. people to light, come hell or point of the human conscience that all priests are chips off the When I hear priests described The hope held out to me was high water? Faced with a disenchanted with church same dull block. The truth is as a club of male chauvinists, I that if I managed to survive the choice between giving up the teaching which leave Catholics that like all other human beings remember the Sisters whose dullness I faced as a postulant, I Gospel because of the sins of hemmed in by the thou-shall­each priest is unique. Star dif­care for me in formation was might be invited to try my luck the Church, or of holding on to nots? fers from star in glory, says the like mothering. Why should I be as a novice. The novitiate is a the Gospel delivered by a The Church, faced with the Bible, and so do priests. I hap­tempted to act or think like a boot camp where, foi-a year church with dirty hands, how newly-found freedom of the pen to be the son, as well as the chauvinist, when I remember and a day, you're put through could a priest with immortal children of God, has to try grandson and great-grandson of how much I owe them? In the paces. The novice can start, obligations be expected to ab­harder to teach them wisdom. the Yankee Fisherman; in fact, Christ's mystical body, no group with God's help, to build a floor jure the Church as the Light But once priests start using all my father's people have been of priest could wish to be an under the faith he professes to that failed. their consciences as the light fishermen since before the island. have in God. Anytime the Church manages they will follow, what becomes years of the American Cardinal Newman once ad­to shoot itself in the foot, it of the tradition? Wasn't it an Revolution. mitted that as a child he prayed I can attest to this: all the manages to survive the scandal ex-priest enjoying his freedom 
None of them were Papists; for the "Arabian Nights" to training and spiritual exhora­as it survived the Spanish of conscience who told us: "It yet as Protestants, they believed come true. Growing up to be­tion I have ever received as a Inquisition and the Children's doesn't matter what you do in in Jesus as the Morning and come a priest, says his biogra­Holy Cross Religious had one Crusade. The Church, tragically the bedroom as long as you Evening Star on the charts they pher caustically, Newman found pure objective in mind: to en­corrupt and in need of reform, don't do it in the street and steered by; and I never read of that his prayers had been courage me to be zealous, gen­survived the Protestant frighten the horses"? the Galilean fishermen lowering answered. erous, competent and sensitive Reformers until finally it got its You hear of priests who try their nets without remembering When I tell you I entered the in trying to serve the needs of act together and reformed men's soul, and maybe their ex­my grandfather, envisioning seminary because I believed the Christ's people. Why do I bring itself. The Church of the 19th cuse is heaven as the sailor's snug old, old story of Jesus and His this up now? Because I'm tired century, anathematizing all the that they followed their con­harbor. love, maybe in your mind, you of hearing from the church­scientific progress of the science. But, of course, it's the 
Why did I become a priest? start seeing the portrait of the bashers so anxious to talk down modern world, was eventually silly Because I believed the old, old Christian as a young wimp, to me about the way we were dragged kicking screaming into season, and I'm being silly. As story of Jesus and His love, like imagining himself as a lover brain-washed to dominate the the 20th century at Vatican II. long as the Church continues to thousands of other lads who having an affair with God. If I sheep. But when it's the priests who spread the old, old story we dreamed of being ordained as were such a wimp, I'm sure my The bashers can tell me good have managed to shoot the have comfort that stays with us the Church's servants to whom teachers were the first to no­things, or bad things and worse, Church in the foot, Catholics until joy comes with the morn­the Gospel has been entrusted. tice. about the Church whose Human can start to wonder if the ing, when even the old priests 
I entered the seminary in the What seminaries used to do Element sometimes loses sight Church is worthy saving; and may find that they're too big too days before chauvinism; per-best was put hair on the chest of the love of Christ. But none of even when they hear the Old cry. 

TUESDAY -MARCH 3, 1992 NOTRE DAME VS XAVIER ND Council for the Retarded presents THE GREAT LOGAN NOSE-ON NIGHT FREE THROW CONTEST 
Honor-v NOSE-ON Chelr.,..-110n Coach John Maclaod with LOGAN client, Arone Ro•emhel 
Buy a Derby for LOGAN and take a chance at winning 
TWO FREE DELTA ROUND-TRIP TICKETS TO ANYWHERE IN THE U.S. 
$1.00 GIVES YOU A KELLY GREEN DERBY AND AN OPPORTUNITY TO PARTICIPATE IN THE HALF-TIME FREE THROW CONTEST, PLUS A CHANCE TO WIN OTHER GREAT DOOR PRIZESI 
Sponsored by the N.D. Council for the Retarded for the THE GREAT lOGAN NOSE-ON 
Airline tickets courtesy of Delta Airlines and Fifth Third Travel 
---------~­
-~~-----------~------------­
-t ~ ,. ·~··' 
The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline tor nex1-day classilieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE Don't go back to Basix Wed ... STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA BBAFH DEAREST KEN_ AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER Get the same deal at BRIDGETS ... Info on semester, year, graduate, blonde bimbo assassin from hell. Notices SUBLET-CHEAP FOR FOUR It's closer!!! summer and internship programs in of course you know this means war. A LIFE-------GET ONEIIIIIIIII 
STUDENTS!! DO NOT PAY Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and you better take me out from a long USED TEXTBOOKS! EXPENSIVE DORM RATES AND Fri.-Get rooted at Bridget's Melbourne. Programs start at distance because if I get close it will BUTI FIRST A LEAP MONTH Buy & Sell Books PUT UP WITH RULES -HANG BY with "Jack and the Beanstalks" $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. be exciting. SECRET MESSAGE> > > > Pandora's Books THE POOL!!!! CALL X3414-That's a promise. 3 blks. from NO MESSAGE. SAT.-Margaritaville at The Lizard King lives on! Down with TAKE YOUR PANTS OFF 233-2342110-5:30 M-Sun Bridget's ... Free nacho bar+ the Crustaceans! from the ho TAKE YOUR PANTS OFF 
ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO., upside down margaritas. TAKE YOUR PANTS OFF in ancient Rome FOR LARGE 4-BR, FURNISHED HURRY! Don't Miss Out. SOUTH SHANE, there was a poem HOUSE. COMPLETE SECURITY sexy legs TOMORROW!!! PADRE and CANCUN SPRING Good Luck playing track tomorrow! YOU'LL KNOW WHAT TO DO about a dog SYSTEM: WASHER & DRYER; 9-BREAK of "92"! Seven night Oh, I forgot, you taught me you (OR ELSE I'LL HAVE TO SHOW who found two bones MO. LEASE. DEPOSIT. 259-7801 IT PUTS THE LOTION ON IT'S packages from $199. Lowest prices don't PLAY, you COMPETE. I'm YOU AGAIN!!!!!) he licked the one OR 255-5852. SKIN. IT PUTS THE LOTION IN guaranteed. Call Orion Tours sure you will do better than last he licked the other THE BASKET. TODAY: 1-800-800-6050. time!l(ha) WHAT IF WE WERE ALL GOATS? he went in circles 6-7 BDRM HOME. NEAR he dropped dead CAMPUS. FURNISHED.272-6306 I'M PULLING OUT OF HERE TO 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 $100 bounty on the head of marc WHAT IF WE WERE ALL GOATS? 
devo WIN ... LaFortune Student Center demanigold, chief punk on that 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO -We're Open Everyday!!! alumni team WHAT IF WE WERE ALL GOATS? ATIENTION: ex-NVA employees Ironwood & Bulla -2 B/R -2 Bath -DR. LOVE, DR. INKSTER HAS living in Chicago area: Observer available immediately-call287-REQUESTED THAT THOMAS every1hing you know is wrong. Why would a big Toyota truck want ...THINK ABOUT IT ... interested in interviewing you for 0534 or 271-9268. HURR BE ELECTED INTO THE to flash a cute CRX??? story series COUNCIL. HE SHALL BE CALLED FLORIDA ON A BUDGET. $100.00 "To Bryan, the God of Personals, 
SHARE 2-BR HOME w/ M Grad "SQUIRE AGAPE." per person per week. Fort Myers ! TYPING AVAILABLE Stdnt Garden, appls, 2-car gar. Avl area 1-813-353-1437. Gonig to Raleigh NC Do you need a and Peggy, the Goddess of Beauty, 287-4082. Apr 1 (No joke!) 288-3878 STRESSED OUT??? ride? x4334 
WORRIED ABOUT MID-TERMS? HEY FAT DOG! thank you for the space .. ." NEED RIDE TO OR NEAR For Sale LAUGHTER IS THE BEST HAPPY ANNIVERSARY! CHAMPAIGN IL BY EARLY PM ON MEDICINE!I! I KNOW IT'S BEEN THE BEST SIX LOU KL's loves! ave ... 
.._.

TH. MAR 5. WILL SPLIT COSTS. FOR SALE: 2 STORY see HOWIE MANDEL at Stepan on MONTHS OF YOUR LIFE! I saw you yesterday at the bank CALL MIKE 1668 CONTEMPORARY IN WOODED Sunday, March 1 . 1-4-3 TIMMY after a long time. How about getting DEAR PEGGY, 
SETIING. 5 BDRM, 2-1/2 BATH, Tickets still available at the KERRY togheter sometime? ..more security at bars• .. MOVE-IN CONDITION. $140'S . LaFortune Info Desk!I! HERE'S A PERSONAL ..extend weekend wheels .. NOREEN O'BRIEN 234-5429 Butcher Butcher La Ia Ia DISSFUNKTION vote: mckeon/pitstick for REIMAX 100 255-5858 02/27 Butcher Butcher with "grooves to make your LOVE, oc co-pres. monday D Butcher Butcher Ia Ia Ia bootie move" 
386SX 16Mhz 2MBRam I Butcher butcher opening for The Perfect Word BRYAN IBM PS/2 55 60MB HD s Butcher Butcher Ia Ia Ia Sat., Feb. 29th at 10PM Lost and Found Super VGA Monitor s Butcher Butcher COME EARLY! HEY GUYS1111111 
Math Co-Processor FUNK LOST: GRAY COAT WITH Software Installed T Ha Ha Hal AN ODE TO A PETUNIA FLANNEL LINING IN KEENAN Must Sell:$ 1700 OBO I TIME ONCE AGAIN TO HALL ON FRIDAY 2121. CALL TIM Manuel 283-4333 0 cancun countdown: 7 days. Start Being called a Petunia 283-2004. N hoarding non-perishables, ladies. Should not cause you grief, CELEBRATE THE THREE P'S 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED There are much worse names YOU ALL KNOW WHAT I MEAN Found: Dorm Key on black 89 Mercedes ...................... $200 THE PERFECT WORD HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO Than flower or leaf. Observer key chain, rm. 118. Call BGVW....................................$50 FOR TWO NIGHTS ONLY AT CINCINNATI/DAYTON AREA POKER x4290 to claim. 87 Mercedes ...................... $100 CLUB23 THIS WEEKEND. WILL PAY We really liked Daisy 
65 Mustang .......................... $50 FRI. & SAT., FEB. 28th & 29th GAS/FOOD $ X2272 But obviously you didn't, PORNO'S (starring TB as the talker) Found: 9:15 am 2-24-92 in front of Choose from thousands starting ALL ORIGINAL MUSIC So we picked something else Morrissey, a pair of blue eyeglasses $25. 10PM-2AM Please help me!!!l My leather jacket But non-organic, it isn't. PUKING in a blue cloth case. To claim call FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals was accidently taken from x2067 Details 801-379-2929 Copyright Uh-Oh, Mr. Potty's ballon deflated II! Theodores Sat. night. Also I lost my Victory shall be ours LET THE GAMES BEGIN11111 
#IN11KJC black Brasier coat at the SMC No matter how much you stutter, Lost: A leather bracelet with Uh-Oh, Mr. Potty's ballon deflated!!! Soph. formal I have no coats!I CAll The women shall roar ... and then the talker said, "You enormous sentimental value. If FOR SALE: SMC approved loft. Becky at 284-41 07 The petunia shall flutter. found, please call 283-3153. $80 call284-5174. Diggy, Congrats on your capping IIIII know what to do." 
Twang! !Ill HELP I I need a ride to New I need a ride to Texas;will help 
LOST MOUNTAIN BIKEI! Jersey for break x3384 drive/gas. Moira x4190 lo th1s Ken rep!@], One bright blue felt 20" Black Cannondale. Great LIGHTEN UP, TAKE A STUDY "mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm "Gambler's" hat with a 1/2 inch navy cond. Suntour Comp. $300 Free U­BREAK, for God's sake LAUGH a every1hing i know may be wrong, mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm" blue ribbon/bow. Sentimental value. lock. Call Amy x421 0 little ... come see HOWIE MANDEL GOOD LUCK but since i know that i'm wrong, i Please call Teresa, x2899 if found. at STEPAN on SUN. Bpm guess i'm wrong about being Kathy and Cricky, 
Tandy 1000TX Computer TIX at INFO DESK JOHN RAP and DAVE 0 wrong ... LOST: GOLD CAMEO RING. IBM Compat. Original Software Have a great day--isn't my personal 
IT'S VERY OLD & THE FACE IS Must Sell 284-5232 CAN YOU DANCE LIKE A VISION? LIZ! YOU IGNORANT SLUT! I SMOOTHED OVER. MY NEED RIDE to PHILLY/SJ area for great??? GRANDMA'S & DEEP GO NO SWIM I!! break-call Sam x4863 HAPPY BIRTHDAY! PAC SENTIMENTAL VALUE! LOST Tickets -Boys in 336 BETWEEN SMC BUS STOP & Good luck in MCC NEED RIDE 2 LONG IS/NY/NJ Pete Saine, HAYES-HEALY@ NO. CALL $ NEED 1 ST. JOHN's GA x2558 Championships. area-call Ellen x4863 RGS is a male bimbo. 283-5319. Happy Belated Birthdayllll 
C­FOUND: LADY'S WATCH NEAR Personal This is my leap. If I knew Attention AMNESTY Woo, woo-we are out of here. Hasta Peggy BOOKSTORE. CALL SHIRLEY what you were thinking ... it'd INTERNATIONAL members (or Ia Vista, baby. May your year be as 239-5303 TO IDENTIFY. INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. be easier. (Call me?) Good luck all interested in human rights) fun as ours. Remember-<lon't call Lunchmeat is a male slut, and 
Good rates. Save Money. Call me this weekend. DON'T FORGET: there will be a us we'll call you~NOTII LOST -One black leather jacket for a quote 9:30-6:00, meeting SUNDAY at 8:30 p.m. in Mayonnaise is his fithlul sidekick with wallet and car keys. Lost at 289-1993. Office near campus. HIPPO_ the Montgomery Theatre in -Jen Hughs-The Commons Tuesday night. please cheer up cuz i don't like to LaFortune. We will hearing from HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY! I hope Hee, Hee, Hee Information? Call 234-2779. SPRING BREAK TO FLORIDA see ya down!! things can only get those who went to the conference you have a great day! You were 
BEACHES. FUN IN THE SUN, better... i guess i'll just have to try over the weekend. DON'T MISS quite patient considering you have 
Dave, Jay, and John 

LOST: Brown framed glasses 4/RM. prices. Day1ona $149, tomorrow ITill to wait another day because of in a red case, if found please Panama City $139 Kitch, Wtrfrt & to restore the ... leapyear. You're a great roommate 
have the best tools : 

call 284-5256 Trans Available. Call CMI at 1-800-FIRE and friend. This weekend will be 
423-5264. MOVING OFF CAMPUS? VOTE: fun with our parental units. m ed board •••FOUND... 
RGS is a male slut KEITH McKEON & MONDAY Happy Birthday-March 1, 1992! Mini 35mm camera All hail Mistress Becky Martini, TOM PITSTICK 3/2 Love, between Mod Quad and wonder nurse and goddess. II you FOR THE ONE AND ONLY TROG­oc crime #1 concern Jen NOH. Was found before see her,whistle! "AND EVERYONE OF THEM 
GUARANTEED ALASKA JOBS Christmas Break. WORDS RANG TRUE, AND T Squecks-Weezer is evil and must 
ex. $IIJOO.Iwk room. boarn &airfare New. '92· DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO GLOWED LIKE BURNIN COAL, H be destroyed! 
80 pg. gutcte reveals most curran! prospeC!s in: Fishing, Oil, Alaska Teacher Placemenl,

Call Joe at 1208 O'HARE? CALL UNITED LIMO. POURING OFF OF EVERY PAGE E 
Degreed jobs. Cons~uclion, &much more.

SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK FROM LIKE IT WAS WRITIEN IN MY KATHY ROE-Or. Love called to say 
Weei<ly info available. Stale liscensed agency.

NO BUS SHELTER. 674-7000 OR SOUL, FORM ME TO YOU .. ." PERFECT I'm too sexy for your sweet 
Alaskemp Guaranlee: Secure Alaska job. or Wanted 1-800-833-5555. PLEASE REPSOND TO MR. emotions. It smells like teen spirit 
100"/o refund. Send $9.95 + $3 S&H lo: ALBERT REDFORD CLARK. w so you should lick it up. Afire all, It's 
Alaskemp. Box 1236 · X. Coivallis, OR 97339. AGENTS WANTED TO PROCESS "Let's go Greyhound on spring 0 my perogative. phone orders. People Call you. Will break. 50% off anywhere we go. Sorry. That was my first mes­R Train. 1-800-727-9716 Ext. 555.24 Restrictions apply. Call287-6541" sage, so you must be recon­D what do you call three Mikes a mic HAS. sidering someone else's offer. and a Bench? 
RESERVE YOUR 2,4,0R 5 

Shaka: When the walls fell I hope you'll get in touch with Julka, Chilly, and Bird, we're so glad 
BEDROOM HOUSE FOR 

BARTENDER INTERVIEWS him/her, though. -Curious. you're here!!! Thanks for coming!!! EARL'S COURT 
92-93 NOW! SAFE AREA,

AT BRIDGET'S W-F Avon $$$ Sales. New Commission Love, 
PRIVATE PARKING LOT, 

2:30-4:30 earnings selling at work/home. 232-Lyons Ladies: Renee and Becky EARL'S COURT 00i4. 
VOLLEYBALL & Need ride for 2 to Pittsburgh for It was nice to see your rhymes; Two Winds and Waking Nose, EARL'S COURT 
BASKETBALL COURT, 

break. Will pay bucks! Call Kerry THEY'RE HERE! I hope your dates are not slimes. 
SEMI-FURNISHED. CALL

nowx4311. RECYCLABLE MUGS I, King-o-fluffies, am not a czar; Book in the Head and I will buy SMC coffee house-Leapday 12 oz. & 20 oz. I left my crown in the back of P.l.'s (!sat. Feb 29th) 
234-1886 TODAY 

For Rent Save $.10 on Beverage Refills car. many beads for the bosoms of fair 
at Oakroom, Huddle, Nile Oak, You may not think its cool; Oh your eyes are so brown and BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Allegro, Waddick's, Decio But I just want to win the hook-up southern women. Smoke the pipe 219-291-7153. REDUCE-REUSE-RECYCLE pool. your hair is so clean. You have a 
while we are away. 

I need a ride to the DETROIT AREA Love always, righteous bed if ya know what I SUMMER SCHOOL RENTAL -for Spring Break. HELP! Beth Judge Leeks in the Night 3 SEPARATE BEDROOMS, USE x4341 mean! I love my Natalie, Natalie, 
BRIAN, COLIN, & VINCE OF FACILITIES, NatalieNatalie Natalie!why? 

'

SPRING BREAK -S. PADRE & 
I IT 

KITCHEN, WASHING, $225/MO. ISLAND, TEXAS. "RADDISON PARROTHEADS UNITE! Because you're RESORT"BEACHFRONT RUBEN KINKAID NICE NEIGHBORHOOD PARTIES! SLEEPS 6, ALSO 3 BR, GET FIRED UP! mineminemineminemineminemineM SLEEPS 8. DISCOUNT BY CLUB23 & HOME. OWNER. 1-212-472-1414. THE 2ND ANNUAL JIMMY INE! 
B. I

TONIGHT ONLY!II!II CLOSE TO CAMPUS. BUFFETFEST IS COMING! 
-

PAUL 232-2794. We are Strong ! 10:30 pm Signed, the vengeful love cucumber 
i t \ \ ' · t i ! • t 1 t t t l I t t f • ,f 1 J ) f ) t t I .! .-l .I f. • I l I ~ ) I J t f I t l f-I ~ t. t • '!-~ 

--------~-~-~~-~­


It started with reports on crime. And the high incidence of parolee crime in Michigan. And ended by placing the blame for much of that crime on prison officials. 
Officials who, in an effort to ease prison overcrowding, were themselves breaking the law. 
It aroused public outrage and forced the state to make changes in the system. 
Changes that wouldn't have occurred if a few reporters at a Detroit newspaper hadn't been looking for a story. 
rights can be protected when the public is kept informed. 
It's an example of how a free press works in a free society. And what could go on without it. 
To get printed information on the role ofa free press and how it protects your rights, or to discuss any free press issue, call the First Amendment Center at 1-800-542-1600. 
Ifthe press didn't tell us,who would? 
A public service message of this newspaper. The Ad Council and The Society of Professional Journalists. ~ 
FREE PRESS CAMPAIGN NEWSPAPER AD NO. FP-87-1174-TAB. 
Friday, February 28, 1992 
SCOREBOARD 
TRANSACTIONSNHL STANDINGS NBA STANDINGS 
SIOUX FALLS SKYFORCE-S1gned GregBASEBALL Lazzard, forward. 

WALES CONFERENCE COMMISSIONER'S OFFICE-Promoted David
EASTERN CONFERENCE NOTRE DAME 76, LOYOLA 67 FOOTBALL 
Patrick Divieion Alword, director of broadcasting, to executive direc­
Atlantic Division LOYOLA (11-13) Arena Football 
w L T Pte GF GA tor of broadcasting; Leonard Coleman, director of
w L Pet. GB Rogers 6-14 0-2 12, Moehring 0-1 0-0 0, Ali 5-10 1-ORLANDO PREDATORS-Named Robart NY Rangers 40 20 4 84 249 205 New York 34 21 .618 4 11, Sobczak 0-1 0-0 0, Wilson 2-6 3-3 7 Wilburn market development, to executive director of mar­Shacke"ord line coach. 
Washington 37 20 5 79 266 ket development; Kevin Hallinan, director of secu­
208 Boston 31 25 .554 3 112 3-5 0-0 7, Dolezal4-7 5-6 15, Atkins 4·12 5-6 15. SAN ANTONIO FORCE-Named Mike Trigg of­
New Jersey 32 20 9 73 234 192 rity, to executive director of secur~y; Richard Levin,
Miami 27 29 . 482 7112 Totals 24-56 14-21 67 . fensive coordina1or; Roger Goree line coach; and 
director of public relations, to executive director of·
Pittsburgh 27 27 8 62 262 242 Philadelphia 26 31 .456 9 NOTRE DAME (12-12) Peter Raeford secondary coach. 
NY Is landers 26 28 7 59 225 240 public relations, and Williams Murray, director of
New Jersey 25 31 .446 9112 EllisB-133-419, Taylor8-116-623, Tower2-30-Q World League of American Football 
Philadelphia 22 11 187 baseball operations, to executive director of base­
28 55 204 Washington 18 37 .327 16 4, Bennett 3-11 4-4 10, Sweet 6-11 4-4 16, Boyer BARCELONA DRAGONS-Signed Brad Henke,
Adams Division ball operations.
Orlando 14 42 .250 20 1/2 0-0 0-0 0, Russell 1-1 0-0 2, Justice 0-0 0-0 0, guard.
x-Montreal 37 21 7 Bt 216 156 American League
Central Division Cozen 1-3 0-0 2, Jon Ross 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 29-54 FRANKFURT GALAXY-Traded Todd Young,
Boston 29 25 8 66 212 213 CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Named Dallas Williams 
Chicago 46 11 .807 17-18 76. tight end, to San Antonio for future considerations,
Buffalo 24 28 10 58 225 234 baserunning and outfield coordinator.
Cleveland 36 18 .667 8 112 Halftime-Notre Dame 42, Loyola 30. 3-Point and Glen Rogers, cornerback, to Orlando for future 
Hartford 18 31 11 47 187 212 DETROIT TIGERS-Signed Steve Ontiveros,
Detroit 33 24 .579 13 goals-Loyola 5-13 (Rogers 0-1, Wilson 0-1, considerations. 
Quebec 13 40 9 35 183 251 pitcher, to a contract with Toledo of the
Atlanta 28 27 .509 17 Wilburn 1-2, Dolezal 2-3, Atkins 2-6), Notre Dame LONDON MONARCHS-Signed Todd Ellis,
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE International League.
Milwaukee 25 30 .455 20 1-7 (Ellis 0-1,Taylor 1-1, Bennett 0-4, Sweet 0-1). quarterback.
Norris Diviaion MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Signed Doug Henry, 
Indiana 25 32 .439 21 Fouled out-None. Rabounds--Loyola 26 (Rogers, MONTREAL MACHINE-Signed Stacy Danley,
w L T Pts GF GA pitcher, to a one-year contract.
CharlOtte 20 36 .357 25 1/2 Dolezal 7), Notre Dame 35 (Ellis 11). Assists­running back; Frank Miotke, wide receiver; Mike 
Detroit 35 18 9 79 263 199 MINNESOTA TWINS-Agreed to terms wirth
WESTERN CONFERENCE Loyola 10 (Rogers, Sobczak, Wilburn, Atkins 2), Pierce, safety, and Brent Snyder, quarterback. 
St. Louis 29 25 9 67 219 209 Jarvis Brown, outfielder, on a one-year contract.
Midwest Division Notre Dame 16 (Bennett 7). Total fouls-Loyola 16, OHIO GLORY-Announced the retirement of 
Chicago 26 23 13 65 197 186 NEW YORK YANKEES-Named Stump Merrill
w L Pet. GB Notre Dame 19. A-8,723. Todd Millikan, tight end. 
Minnesota 26 31 5 57 196 38 19 .667 roving minor league instructor.
215 Utah ORLANDO THUNDER-Traded Pat O'Hara,
Toronto 21 36 6 48 179 235 TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Signed Rob Ducey
San Antonio 32 23 .582 5 quarterback, to Ohio for future considerations. Houston 29 27 .518 8 112 HOCKEY
Smythe Divieion and Turner Ward, outfielders, to one-year con­Vancouver 33 20 9 75 218 tracts.
191 Denver 20 35 .364 17 National Hockey League
Los Angeles 26 24 National League
13 65 230 236 Dallas 16 39 .291 21 BOSTON BRUINS-Signed Glen Murray. r;gh1
Notre Dame (11-14, 8-4)
Edmonton 28 29 7 63 237 240 FLORIDA MARLINS-Named Chuck Pool direc­
Minnesota 11 44 .200 26 wing.
Bowen 4-9 0-2 8, Haysbert 5-11 0-2 1 0, Nowlin 8­
Winnipeg 25 27 11 61 193 196 tor of media relations. 
Pacific Divieion 10 2-3 18, Leary 3-5 1-2 7, Orlosky 5-9 0-0 11, CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS-Signed Igor
Calgary 25 28 9 59 234 231 LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Signed Pedro
Golden State 37 16 .698 Knapp 0-0 o-o 0, Smith o-o 2-2 2, Marciniak 6-10 Kravchuk, defenseman, to a two-year contract. 
San Jose 14 44 4 32 164 282 Maninez, pitcher, to a one-year contract. 
Portland 38 17 .691 
1-2 13, Alexander 1-2 0-0 2, Rupe 1-1 0-0. Totals NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Signed Scott 
x-clinched playoff berth. SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Signed Darren
Phoenix 36 21 .632 3 Lachance, delenseman, to a four-year contract.
33-57 6-13 73. LA Lakers 30 25 .545 8 Loyola (9-16, 6-6) QUEBEC NORDIQUES-Ciaimed Gino
Wednesday's Games Lewis, outfielder, to a one·year contrac.1. 
Montrea14, Minnesota 1 BASKETBALL
Seattle 30 25 .545 8 Metz 7-15 7-9 21, Pruim 5-9 0-0 10, O'Shaugnessy Cavallini, left wing, off waivers from the St. Louis 
Edmonton 6, Winnipeg 1 National Basketball Association
LA Clippers 27 28 .491 11 Blues.
5-121-2 11, Murtaugh 1-7 0-0 3, Kundinger 2-6 5­
San Jose 7, Quebec 4 LOS ANGELES LAKERS-Signed Vlade Divac,
Sacramento 18 37 .327 20 8 9, Bluege 0-1 0-0 0, Esser 4-5 0-0 10, Zalas 0-0 ST. LOUIS BLUES-Signed Philippe Bozon, left 
Thursday's Games center, to a muniyear contract. 
Thursday'a Games o-o o. Hamil 0-1 2-2 2. Totals 24-5615-21 66. wing, to a multiyear contract.
Late Games Not Included SAN ANTONIO SPURS-Signed Trent Tucker, 
Late Games Not Included Halftime Notre Dame 35, Loyola 24. 3-point goals­TORONTO MAPLE LEAFS-Acquired Mark
Boston 4, Toronto 2 guard, to a 10-day contract. 
New Jersey 98, Portland 96 Notre Dame 1-2 (Orlosky 1-2), Loyola 3-10 Ferner, defenseman, from the Washington Capitals 
Hartford 8, P~tsburgh 4 Continental Basketball Association 
Charlotte 136, Philadelphia 64 (Murtaugh 1-2, Pruim 0-2, Kudinger 0·3, Esser 2-lor a 12th-round pick in the June entry draft. 
Delroit at Chicago, (n) OKLAHOMA CITY CAVALRY-Signed Richard 
Detro~ 104, Milwaukee 97 3). Fouled out-none. Rebounds Notre Dame 41 WINNIPEG JETS-Traded Moe Mantha, de­
Washington at St. Louis, (n) Dumas, forward. 
Golden State at San Antonio, (n) (Bowen 8), Loyola 25 (Me1z 10). Assists Notre fenseman, to the Philadelphia Flyers for future
Philadelphia at Calgary, (n) RAPID CITY THRILLERS-Placed Leon Wood, 
Seattle at Utah, (n) Dame 17 (Marciniak 4), Loyola 15 (Murtaugh 8). considerations.
Quebec at Los Angeles, (n) guard, on the suspended list. 
New York at Sacramento. tnl Total fouls-Notre Dame 18, Loyola 15. 
Duke's Laettner a finalist for the Sullivan Award 
INDIANAPOLIS-The op­Basketball's male athlete of the ponent Duke's Christian year, said he didn't expect to be Laettner faces as a finalist for considered by the estimated the Sullivan Award is one he's 2,500 voters that will select never confronted on the bas­Monday's winner. 
ketball court-"I didn't think this 
No stranger to award was really considered to challenges, the center for be given to a college basketball defending NCAA champion and player. I thought it was usually top-ranked Duke is posted up saved for the track people or against history in the voting for the swimming people," said the 
the top amateur athlete of Angola, N.Y. sociology major 199L who led the U.S. team in scor­
Two Olympic gold ing with a 14.1 average at the medalists from the recent Pan American Games last competition in Albertville also summer. were among the 10 fmalists. 
The award will be Laettner, the most valuable 

presented Monday night for the player of the NCAA Final Four 62nd time, only a few steps last year when Duke beat top­away from the Hoosier Dome ranked UNLV in the semifinals where Laettner led Duke to the and Kansas in the title game, is NCAA basketball championship proud to be a Sullivan finalist. last year. 
Laettner, 21, was one "It tells me and people at of the finalists selected by a Duke that I have been doing a screening committee that very good job at Duke in the reviewed 35 nominees made by past few years, and I'm just national sports governing very happy with it," said 
bodies. Participants in team Laettner, who is finishing his sports, however, haven't fared college career this year among well in the nationwide voting by Duke's all-time leaders in media, athletes and officials points, rebounds, steals and involved in amateur athletics. blocked shots. The last team sport participant The 6-foot-11 center 
to receive the Sullivan was was third on the scoring list 1973 winner Bill Walton of heading into Saturday's game UClA in basketbalL with UClA with 2,194 points. The only other He needed only 11 rebounds to basketball player to receive the move past Mike Lewis (1,051} Sullivan was Bill Bradley of into third place in that cate­Princeton, now a u.s_ senator gory. He already has the school from New Jersey. And the record for career free throws award hasn't gone to a football made with 646., and he's player since Felix "Doc" among the Top 20 on the 
Blanchard and Arnold Tucker, Atlantic Coast Conference's all­both of Army, in 1945 and time scoring and rebounding 1946, respectively. lists. 
Track and field performers have been the most Powell, an Olympic silver successful with 35 winners, medalist in 1988, went 29-feet, followed by aquatics with 12. 4 1/2 inches at last year's World 
r 
Championships to break the MAPLE LANE 1 long jump record Bob BeamonI set in the 1968 Olympics.
BARBERSHOP Powell ended a streak of 65 victories in the event by 1981 Sullivan winner Carl Lewis. 
I Serving the Notre Dame I Community for 
' IBarrowman, who also will beI Over 30 years competing in the U.S. OlympicI Trials here March 1-6, is a fi­
I 2112 South Bend Ave. nalist for the second consecu­Appointments if desired tive year. 
l 

I I 
272-6722

I I 

u JUl 
page 18 The Observer 
Friday, February 28,1992 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Whalers freeze Penguins;

Bouts 
•The Observer sports department will hold a meeting for 
continued from page 24 
anyone interested in writing, on Sunday at 9 p.m. at the 
Bruins sweep Maple Leafs 

Observer, 314 LaFortune. If you are interested and cannot
Raulston continued following 
make the meeting or want more information call Mike 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Murray Returning from a 1-4-0 road

his body shots with wide 
Scrudato at the Observer office at 239-7471. 
Craven scored twice and the swing, the Bruins withstood a

punches throughout the third 
•The Rowing Club Is looking for coxswains for both the 
Hartford Whalers snapped a shorthanded goal by Dave Ellett 

round, while Trainor threw his 
varsity and novice teams. Interested individuals should call 
13-game road winless streak and a fluke score by Guy Larose

jab with little success. At the 
Pete at 271-8466. 
with an 8-4 win over the with less than one second left in 

midway point of the round, it 
•The ski team now has three spots open for its spring 
slumping Pittsburgh Penguins the second period to extend the

was obvious that Trainor had 
break trip to Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Anyone interested should 
on Thursday night. Maple Leafs' winless streak to

the edge in points. Realizing 
The Whalers had been 0-11-2 0-4-1.

call Chris Woods at 277-7089.
this, Raulston threw and landed 
on the road since winning 8-4 Poulin, who missed Boston's

•Final sign-ups for Bookstore Basketball Tournament will 
a barrage of punches in the 
at Buffalo on Dec. 13 when they first 61 games with an abdomi­

be held Wednesday, Thursday, and next Monday from 4 to 7
bouts last 15-30 seconds. 
recorded their previous high nal injury which required

p.m. in the S.U.B. office, on second floor LaFortune. This is the 
Those final .seconds cost 
last chance to sign up. 
goal total. surgery in December, scored
Trainor a trip to the finals. 
•Attention ND/SMC Sailing Club: We will be unloading 
Hartford is 5-0-1 in 6:24 into the game on a re­

Scott Mulcahy, the other fi­
Pittsburgh since losing on April bound. After Dave Ellett tied

the boats for our spring season this Sunday at 11:30 a.m.
nalist in the 165-lb division, 
3, 1988. The Whalers hadn't the score, the Bruins went
Attendance is mandatory. Anyone interested in joining the is
was in Raulston's corner as an 
beaten a team with a winning ahead for good on goals by
welcome to come and help out. Any questions, call Adrienne
advisor, and he helped set up 
record this season since defeat­Steve Leach and Bobby
Briggs at 284-5085.
the winning strategy. 
ing Montreal 3-2 on Nov. 30. Carpenter.
•Notre Dame Rugby vs. Westminster College Saturday at
"He (Raulston) first started to 
The Penguins entered
noon at the Col. Stephens pitch behind Stepan Center. 
box with Tim, using the straight 
Thursday's game 27-26-8. 
•A mandatory sports department writing seminar with
jab and counter punching," 
The defending Stanley Cup

Ken Bradford of the South Bend Tribune will be held this
said Mulcahy. "That was 
champion Penguins are on a 1­
Sunday, at 5:30p.m. at the Observer. 
Recycle

unsuccessful, and the only 
7-3 skid and have five wins in
thing that was open was the 
their last 24 games. 
wide roundhouse shots, and the 
body. It wasn't the best boxing 
technique, but it was the only 
thing there." 
Despite the success of the 
wide shots by Raulston in the 
bouts final seconds, Trainor felt 
he still had the bout won. 
" I thought I jabbed him and 
hit him more than he hit me," 
said Trainor. "Judges some­
times tend to weigh the third 
round more heavily, and that 
may have been true in this 
case. 
"The main reason (for the 
loss) was that I didn't fight my 
fight. It was difficult to get up 
for this bout, not being in the 
elevated ring, with the crowd. I 
just didn't concentrate." 
Both boxers went all out for 
the bout, clearly expending all 
of their energy in the three 
rounds. 
"I watched almost all of the fights on Wednesday, and this was without a doubt the best fight," said Mulcahy. "Both boxers showed a lot of heart." 
Trainor was clearly disap­pointed that his chance at a ti­tle as a his senior vanished, but displayed the true meaning of the bouts in thinking of others, instead of his own personal goals. 
"Sure, I'm disappointed, but the most important thing is that what we are doing is for a worthy cause," stated Trainor. "We have to keep sight of the fact that no matter who wins or loses, we are fighting to help those who are less fortunate." 
The 140-lb fmal between Jeff Gerber and Paul Ferguson was cancelled due to medical rea­sons. Ferguson suffered a broken nose in his semifinal bout, and is unable to compete in the finals. 
Bruins 4, Maple Leafs 2

Nebraska in trouble again 
BOSTON (AP) -Dave Poulin 

LINCOLN, Neb.-A Nebraska 
football player awaits trial on 
charges of beating a woman. 
Two others were kicked off 
the team this week for fighting 
with players on the baseball 
team. 
Two basketball players were 
suspended this week, one for 
disciplinary reasons and an­
other for fighting in Wednesday 
night's loss to Oklahoma State. 
And finally, the Big Eight may 
decide conference co-champion 
Nebraska has to forfeit football 
victories for using an ineligible 
player, who was held out of a 
22-0 loss to Miami in the 
Orange Bowl. 
So what's happening at 
Nebraska, for years one of the 
most well-run programs in the 
country? 
"We've looked at each other, 
some of us, and wondered, 
'When is this going to stop?' " 
assistant athletic director Don 
Bryant said Thursday. "I don't 
know that it's a pattern of any 
decline in the program. It 
makes everybody feel bad." 
Bryant says the school is em­barrassed by the events. Tom Osborne, one of college sports' most respected coaches, says "the public will have to judge us as they see us, some good, some bad. 
"It's obviously trouble, but the thing about it is we've probably gone about four or five years where the most seri­ous incident had been a DWI." 
While most of the incidents involving Nebraska athletes have occurred at other schools at one time or another, these unrelated episodes have hap­pened over a two-month period. 
The most serious involves running back Scott Baldwin. In 
Creature Dana's HUNGRY!!! Happy Belated 19th B.V.D.! Love, ANNIE & APES 

scored the 176th goal of his 
January, Baldwin was charged 
NHL career in his 1991-92 de­
with assault in an unprovoked 
but as the Boston Bruins beat 
attack on a 23-year-old Lincoln 
Toronto 4-2 for a sweep of the 
woman, who suffered serious 
three-game season series with 
head injuries and was hospital­
the Maple Leafs. 
ized for almost two months. 

paper Please 

She sustained brain damage r;=:=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
and is undergoing rehabilita­
tion. 

Osborne visited Baldwin in 
jail and at a mental hospital, 
where the normally mild-man­
nered player underwent psychi­
atric testing. Osborne also sat 
in court Wednesday when 
Baldwin pleaded innocent by 
reason of insanity. 

"He is very sorry for what happened and is concerned about the welfare of the person he injured," Osborne had said after visiting Baldwin in jail just after the incident. 
"Athletes are human beings and occasionally break down as other people do." 
The rash of problems began the day before the Cornhuskers played No. 1 Miami in the Orange Bowl when fullback Omar Soto was ruled ineligible because he apparently had 
used up his eligibility in 1990. The school is expected to file a 
Join Little Professor's Children's Rug Club 
Every Saturday at 10:30 a.m., starting February 29th. 
Little Professor will be holding a weekly storytime with activities for children ages 8 and under. 
ff 
Bring in this ad on February 29th for 20%
20o/t 0
0 off all children's books. 
~BLITTLE PROFESSORR 
~~) OOK CENTE . 
Ironwood Plaza Nonh • State Road 23 at Ironwood South Bend • 277-4488 • Mon.-Sat.: 10:00-9:00 • Sun.: 10:00-5:00 

report on the incident with the~=======~~===~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Big Eight next month. _ 
IN PLt\IN SIMPLE ENGLISH 
Dis-tin "-gwisht 
to separate or mark off by differences; perceive or show the difference in; differentiate; to be an essential characteristic of; characterize; to perceive clearly; recognize plainly by any of the senses; to separate and classify; give distinction to. 
Stood"-nt 

one who studies, or investigates. 
a-word" 

to give by the decision of a law court or arbitrator; to give as the result of judging the relative merits of those in competition; grant. 
the Dis-tin'-gwisht Stood'-nt d-word' 
Nomination forms for the Distinguished Student Award are available in the Alumni Association, LaFortune, the Library Lobby and the entrances of North and South Dining Halls. Who Do You Know? 


Friday, February 28,1992 The Observer page 19 

Wheaton closes out SMC season 

By CHRIS BACON 
SMC Sports Writer 
Closing the lid on another season, the Saint Mary's bas­ketball team (9-10) will play its final game on Saturday against the 20th ranked Wheaton College (20-4) at Wheaton. 
The Belles closed out its home season Wednesday night with a loss to Calvin College (11-10), 79-68. That marked the second loss to the Lady Knights this season. In November, Calvin escaped the Belles 72-69. The Belles hope to rebound from their loss with an upset victory against the Lady Crusaders. 
"They are the 20th ranked team in the nation and the fourth ranked in their region," explained Belles coach Don Cromer. "I think if we run our offense and run our fast break we can stay with them." 
"Obviously, you know how good Wheaton's going to be," added Catherine Restovich. Wednesday against Calvin, Restovich led the Belles with 23 points, including three trifectas. Restovich continued, saying, "We've got to use our fast break and take it to the hoop. Wednesday night, we did a half fast break." 
Facing the Belles are four Lady Crusaders in double figures. Janet Ahlborn leads the Lady Crusaders with 14.6 ppg and 9.2 rpg. 
Following her are Jeanine Jankovsky (13.6 ppg, 5.7 rpg) and Linda Carlson (12.8 ppg, 
8. 7 rpg). Colleen Joransen closes behind them averaging 
12.5 ppg, 3.4 rpg. With a front 
on Saturday. 
four to lead them, Wheaton de­feats its opponents by an aver­age 15.8 points. In addition, Wheaton routed Calvin College 82-57 in Novmember. With a possible NCAA tournament bid on the line, Wheaton will be playing for keeps. 
For the last time the Belles will look to their leading scorer, Restovich (15.1 ppg), to guide them. Despite the pressure Restovich has felt since senior forward Janet Libbing's (14.69 ppg, 7.82 rpg) sidelining injury two weeks ago, Restovich has rose to the challenge. 
"Rusty can take it to the bas­ket," said coach Cromer. "She can hit the three. She's danger­ous outside and she's danger­ous inside. She really makes things happen for us." 
The Belles also have the combined efforts of its twin towers. Junior centers Julie 
Did You Know? 
...that for every mile you walk, you take 2,400 steps?! 
That's a lot of abuse for your feet to handle! Visit ERNIE'S for all your important orthopedic needs and walk your way to comfort! 
HoME OF Bi.-hennoc~t·l sANoALs 
-~~r}'"'
" 0\ 

EANES 

& SHOE REPAIR '"''"1> M-F 8-5:30 Sat 8-4 13121 State Route 23 (219) 273-2124 
THRASHIN', BASHIN', & 
Snyder and Kim Holmes, starting together in the last three out of four games, have proven invincible under the hoop. 
"Julie has been one of our mainstays. She's been getting on the boards for us, our big rebounder and has started our fastbreaks," Cromer remarked. 
"Kim can go inside for us to get the rebounds. She also has that outside shot that she can shoot well." 
Holmes chipped in 10 points and grab seven rebounds. Senior Kate Mulherin likewise tallied 10 points and led rebounding with 10 
Without center Julie Snyder, the Belles couldn't get their fast break started in the second half of the Calvin game. In the pre­vious four games, Snyder has moved up for the Belles to fill some of the void left in Libbing's absence, scoring an average 15 points and pulling down an average 10.5 re­bounds. 
In addition, in her previous two games, Snyder's aggressive defense enabled her to block 14 shots. However, benched early because of controversial foul calls, Snyder was forced to leave the game, scoring only seven points with five rebounds and two blocks. 
"I've just got to psyche myself up for the game and forget Wednesday," said Snyder. 
Also returning to the Belles starting lineup will be junior guard Kristen Crowley, who scored nine points against Calvin, and sophomore guard Liz Vernasco. 
BANGIN' 
Tired ofhearing the same music all over campus? Need something a little heavier 
Tune in to am 640 for "Thrashin', Bashin', & Bangin'," a two hour metalfest with your host, Chris Ebert. Every Sunday evening from 5 to 7pm, thrash it up to two hours ofthe best and newest metal anywhere. 


"Thrashin', Bashin' & Bangin'" WVFI 640am Sunday 5-7pm 
Rolfs hosts MCC Champs 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams compete in their fmal home meet of the season this weekend as they host the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships at Rolf's Aquatic Center. 
Butler, Evansville, Loyola and Xavier make up the field for the three day event, which begins today at 11:00 am. Preliminaries will be held each day at 11:00 a.m., with the final heats scheduled for 
7:00 p.m. each night. 
Both teams dominated the MCC Dual Meet earlier this season, and they hope to repeat that success this weekend. 
The Irish are coming off a strong finish at last weekend's Eastern Intercollegiate Conference Championships at Rutgers. The men took third place with a score of 510, and the women finished in fifth place with 365 points. 
Several outstanding individ­ual performances highlighted the Eastern Intercollegiate meet, and the same will be needed this weekend. 
Sophomore diver Sean Hyer, a school-record holder in the three-meter competition, won again with a score of 463.20. 
Junior Ed Broderick led the way for the Irish, capturing first-place in the 200-yard individual medley. Sophomore David Nathe earned a second-place finish in the 100-yard freestyle, while junior Tom Whowell took third in the 200-yard backstroke. Junior Greg Cornick also played a key role in the men's success, finishing third in the 200-yard individual medley on the first two days of competition. 
On the women's side, fresh­man Cara Garvey led the way with a first-place finish in the 100-yard backstroke. Senior Becky Wood took second in the 100-yard breaststroke and third in the 200-yard breast­stroke. 
This weekend's meet carries some added importance, how­ever, as it marks the final home meet for the class of 1992. Led by captains Jim Birmingham and Chuck Smith, the class of 1992 has been a part of some of the most successful seasons ever enjoyed by the men's swim team. In their first three sea­sons they lost only eight meets, and they have won two MCC and three National Catholic Championships. 
Captains Shana Stevens and Jackie Jones have led an equally successful women's program. They boast a 36-24 record over the last four years to go along with two MCC titles and two National Catholic Championships. 
If the teams can continue their impressive swimming this weekend, they could add another title to their already lengthy resumes. 

Notre Dame track teams run in Alex Wilson Invitational meet 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame will play host to the Alex Wilson Indoor Track Invitational this Saturday at the Loftus Sports Center. Scheduled to begin at 10:00am, the meet is a tribute to Irish track legend Alex Wilson who was a three­time All-American as a student and coach of the Irish track team for 22 years. 
For the men's team, it will be the fifth running of the event and will feature strong teams from all over the country in­cluding Texas, Clemson, Washington State, Arizona, and Temple. 
"This will be a real exciting track meet with a lot of real good races. The 3,000 and the 5,000 should be outstanding races and the 800 will also be hot this year," said Notre Dame coach Joe Piane in an interview with Notre Dame Sports Information. 
For the women, it will be the second edition of the meet. This year, strong teams from Washington State, Arizona, Eastern Michigan, UCLA, Baylor, Kent, and Temple will challenge Notre Dame. 






\C()TT~tYX[~ $3.50,~-....... 
All Shows 
£"!. ~ -· 
vnr..V T 
Scottsdale Mall • 291·4583 Before 6 pm 

'?k~uf 
TI-IE­

Gf?!bTtvb_a: 
·~~ 
Sat,/Sun 1:00 3:00 5:00 6:45 8:45 
QiASE 
Memoirsofan 
InvisibleMan 
An advc:nrure like you've never seen. Frt 5:157:158:15 @'G-nl Sal/Sun 1:3011:15 7:11UI:lli 
T()WN & (()U~ii5' $3.50 
----"""""' 





Irish fencers prepare for Midwest Intercollegiate Open 

By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Midwest's top fencers 
will invade the JACC 
Fieldhouse this Sunday for the 
Midwest Intercollegiate Open, 
where the highly-touted Irish 
fencers will look to continue 
their reign over Midwest 
fencing. 
The meet will serve as a 
preview for next week's 
Midwest Championships, 
which is the qualifier for the 
NCAA's. Thus, the Irish are 
hoping they will get an 
indication of who they will 
send to East Lansing for the 
next crucial meet. 
"I have my preferences right 
now," said Irish coach Mike 
DeCicco, "But they will have 
to perform to make it to the 
team tournament." 
A number of Irish fencers 
are among the top 
preliminary seeds, and the 
pressure will be on them to 
prove they are the fencers to 
beat. 
The strong Irish sabre squad will certainly be up to the challenge, as they place all four of their top sabremen in the top six. Senior Ed Baguer (30-0) has ridden his undefeated season to a number-one Midwest seed, and senior David Kirby (7-1) comes in at third. 
Sabre captain Chris Baguer (27 -4) commands the fourth seed and will be counted on, as will All-American James Taliaferro (25-6), who is seeded fifth. Senior Henry Chou (17 -1) will go home due to a death in the family. 
The preliminary seeds are based solely on won-loss record and are not a true representation, so there may be a lot a of shake-ups at the top. Nonetheless, the sabre team figures to command most of the top spots. 
"The sabre team is again our strength," noted DeCicco, "As it has been all year." 
While the men's foil squad is not as strong as the sabre team, they too have some top contenders. 
Junior captain Jeff Piper (22-5) is seeded third, and seniors Ed Lefevre (25-7) and Mike Trisko (22-8) are seventh and tenth, respectively. Sophomore Rian Girard (8-3) rounds out the lineup at 12th. 
God gives each 
person one lifetime. 
What are you doingwith yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
David Kirby 
That brings us to the epee 
competition, where the 
competition will be gunning 
for the Irish, as they have a 
hold on two of the first three 
spots. 

Senior Ben Finley is seeded first on the strength of his 7-0 record, and senior All­American David Calderhead (33-3) is third. A pair of sophomores, Per Johnsson (9­
3) and Grzegorz Wozniak (23­
12) will compete at lOth and 14th. 
"We should have all four of them in the Midwest tourna­ment next week," said DeCicco. 
While the men's squads figure to send most of their members next week, the women's team is up in the air. Senior Rachel Haugh and junior Kathleen Vogt, with identical 24-15 records, are seeded at 19 and 20. They will need to crack the top 16 to compete next week. 
"They'll have to get the job done," said DeCicco, "And show us that they're ready for next week." 
Senior Tara Kelly (21-8) is taking this weekend off. She'II be watching sophomore Mary Westrick (28-8), who is seeded ninth, and senior Kelly Haugh(9-1), who cracked the top five at fifth. The defending national champion, senior Heidi Piper (28-3), should challenge for the title with a number-three seed. 
In a rare twist, due to the number of great Irish fencers, there should be some team­mates squaring off in the late rounds of the tournament. 
"I haven't fenced against my teammates in competition this year," noted sabreman Ed Baguer. "We'II see who keeps their head together." 
page 20 The Observer Friday, February 28,1992 
Lacrosse opens season with St. Bonaventure 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 

St. Bonaventure visits the 
Loftus Center as the Notre 
Dame lacrosse team opens its 
1992 campaign Sunday at 1 
p.m. 

The Irish finished 7-7 last 
season, and failed to make the 
NCAA tournament, after finish­
ing the 1990 campaign in the 
nation's top-20. 

Coach Kevin Corrigan looks for his squad to improve on their 1991 performance, but has geared his teams goals away from the win, lose col­umn. 
"Our goals are geared to­wards the way we play and the way we practice," stated Corrigan. "We know that it (the NCAA tournament bid) is in the back of everyone's mind, so we don't talk about it. We feel if we play our best lacrosse we can win a lot of games." 
The Irish hope that the first of those wins will come against the Bonnies, who were 6-8 last season and are traveling to Notre Dame to face the Irish for the first time ever. 
Corrigan feels confident his team will start the season on a high note, despite the lack of knowledge the Irish have on the St. Bonaventure program. "We don't know much about them, but I don't think they will be one of the best teams we face," said Corrigan. "They are a new program." 
Leading the Irish offense against the Bonnies will be se­nior Mike Sullivan. The five­foot-eight attacker has led the team in scoring the past two seasons. His 32 goals and 27 assists in 1991 lifted him to second place on Notre Dame's all-time career scoring list with 127 points. 
Sullivan will anchor a formidable frontline unit which 
DON'T MISS NOTRE DAME'S FAVORITE PERFORMER 
TONIGHT -FRIDAY AND TOMORROW NIGHT-SATURDAY 
Ill 
ALUMNI ~CLUB 

GREAT SPECIALS OPEN 9-2 

The Observer/Jake Peters The Notre Dame lacrosse team, shown here working out earlier this week, will open its season on Sunday against St. Bonaventure. 
boasts the skills of sophomores Willie Ahmuty, Robbie Snyder, Randy Coller and Mark Hexamer. 
Brian Schirf controls the mid­field for the Irish, a position he has held for the past two sea­sons. Junior Brian Mayglothing will accompany Schirf at middie, where he shined last season. 
Corrigan is expecting im­provement from the offense this season, after a lack of an offensive attack plagued the squad in key games last season. 
"We've had trouble scoring in big games last season," said Corrigan. "In our games with teams like Cornell and Hofstra, we held them to under ten goals, and when you do that you should be in a position to win." 
The Notre Dame defense has been the strength of the team in past years and that appears to be the case for the 1992 season. 
Chances of that are high with Chris Parent and Pat Finn guarding the net, and defenders Kevin Murphy and Doug Murray marking opposing of­fenders. 
Corrigan expects many of his highly regarded freshmen to contribute before season's end, especialluy high school all­American defenseman Mike Iorio. 
"This is the most talented freshmen class we've ever had, and our depth is making it dif­ficult for them to get into the lineup," commented Corrigan. 
In four years under Corrigan, ND lacrosse has had its moments in the national spotlight. The 1992 team hopes to continue that trend, starting with St. Bonaventure on Sunday. 


--~~----~--­
I' ,-,• 

Friday, February 28,1992 The Observer 
page 21 

at the charity stripe, the Irish some poor decisions offensively. 
lead shrunk to seven points We dribbled when we should 
with 5 minutes left in the game. have passed and passed when 
Men Taylor breaks out in big way 
continued from page 24 
mark as well as a .594 shooting percentage. 
"This was a game of streaks," said MacLeod. "We had a major one in the beginning and then they whittled it down quicker that we got it." 
"We shot the ball very well from the free throw line and that's very encouraging." said MacLeod. 
Loyola spent the half chipping away at the Irish lead. Dolezal, Atkins, and Wilburn nailed three-pointers from outside while Rogers and Ali battled in­side to the basket. Coupled with the 10 points the Ramblers got 

Carl Cozen entered the game in the first half because of the size differential between the Rambler players and the Irish and saw more "PT" then he has all year. 
"In the first half. I was too tentative, but in the second half, I had a lot more confi­dence and I just tried to do the little things he (MacLeod) asked me to do," said Cozen. 
MacLeod was pleased with his performance. 
"Carl hasn't played there (center) this year. He jumped in and did reasonably well," said the Irish coach. "We threw away open shots. When you start turning down open shots, people get tentative. We made we should have shot." 
"We have to make all these games count so at least we'll have a shot when it comes to NCAA's," said Ellis. 
The schedule doesn't get any easier. On Saturday at 2 pm, the Redmen of St. John's, ranked 20th in the country, will invade the JACC. 
St. John's is currently 17-7 overall and 11-5 in the Big East as well as in the middle of a seven game win streak. The starting five will be forwards Malik Sealy and Shawnelle Scott, center Mitchell Foster, and guards Chucky Sprolling and Jason Buchanan. 
Sealy is the Redman to watch, as leading scorer (22.5 ppg) and leading rebounder (6.6 a game). Scott, a 6-11 forward is averaging 9.2 points and 5.5 rebounds a game while 6-2 guard Buchanan has 9.3 points and 3.1 rebounds a game.. 
Over the course of the seven game win streak, St. John's has defeated the likes of Connecticut, Boston College, Pittsburgh, Syracuse, and Providence. 
The Irish are not worried though. 
"We have more problems with small non-ranked teams. The motivation and the enthusiasm will be there on Saturday (vs. St. John's)," said Sweet after last night's game. 

A RETREAT FOR GRADUATING SENIORS WHO HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN COMMUNITY SERVICE OR SOCIAL ACTION 
The Center for Social Concerns and the Office of Campus Ministry are offering again this year the chance for a 
WEEKEND AWAY AT LAKE MICHIGAN FRIDAY, MARCH 27-SUNDAY, MARCH 29, 1992 
Applications are available from the Center for Social Concerns and the Office of Campus Ministry, 103 Hesburgh Library, and are to be returned to either office by March 6th. 
Acceptance will be on a first come, first serve basis. 
For further information contact: Fr. Tom McDermott 239-7800 Kathy Royer 239-7862 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Freshman Billy Taylor, mired in a shooting slump for the past few games, broke out of it in big way last night against Loyola, setting new career highs with 23 points and seven rebounds. 
Early in the season, the Aurora, Illinois native was one of the team's best shooters, but his touch had failed him in re­cent games. He had become tentative with his shot, but he played with renewed aggres­siveness last night and turned in one of his best performances of the season, leading the Irish to a 76-67 win over the Ramblers. 
With his picture on the cover of the game program, Taylor connected on 8 of 11 shots from the field and six of six from the free throw line for a game high 23 points. 
"I was really looking for my shot and I was more aggressive on both sides of the floor," Taylor commented. 
The defensive side of the floor is where he has made his biggest mark this year. He has been a steady defensive player against some of the nation's best players this season, and last night was no exception. 
Loyola's Keir Rogers came in averaging 19 points a game 

. 

page 22 The Observer 
N D Hockey hosts Flyers for two 
By ANTHONY KING Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame hockey team will be making its last appear­ance on the ice of the Joyce Fieldhouse this Friday and Saturday. 
The Irish face off against the Air Force Academy before both teams head for the Independent Tournament in Fairbanks, Alaska. 
Last weekend the University of Illinois-Chicago added two more notches to the Notre Dame COlA losing streak, beating the Irish 10-3 and 9-5. 
The Irish are looking to get back on the winning track against the Falcons. Air Force has only won one road game in thirteen road appearances this season. 
Women play two at Eck 
By RICH SZABO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team will look to bounce back from a tough loss to Tennessee when they host Kentucky and North Carolina at the Eck this weekend. 
On Saturday, the Irish (3-2). who currently stand at 25th in the country, will battle 21st· ranked Kentucky in search of their first win against a ranked team this season. 
Last week's Tennessee match marked the start of a long stretch for the Irish in which they will be facing a barrage of highly regarded teams, including Indiana (whom the Irish have never defeated). Wisconsin, Northwestern, South Carolina, and Clemson. 
"We're in a stretch of eight matches where everyone we face is a quality team," said Louderback. "This is a great experience for our team. We're playing well right now, but a couple of wins this weekend would really be a boost in this stretch." 
With such a murderous schedule staring them in the face, it will be important for the Irish to pull off strong per­formances this weekend. 
Notre Dame boasts a power­ful singles lineup, led by sev­enth-ranked Melissa Harris and including Laura Schwab, Christy Faustmann, Lisa Tholen, and Terri Vitale. Any one of four other quality play­ers is capable of stepping in for the Irish at the sixth­singles slot. 
In doubles, Faustmann and Tholen have given the Irish a 
Mom, Dad, 
Notre Dame (9-17-1) split with the Falcons (11-19-0) in the season opening series, los­ing the first game 8-4, with Air Force scoring six goals in the third period. The Irish took the second game 5-3, behind the two goal effort of winger Lou Zadra. 
The Falcons are led by John Decker, who has tallied 14 goals and 21 assists to lead the team in points. Eric Rice leads the team in goals with 19 while ranking second in scoring. Mark Liebich will be between the pipes for the Air Force, coming in with a record of 7-19, and 4.35 goals against average. 
Senior Mike Curry will be gunning for the career hun­dred-point mark this weekend. Curry is only three points shy of the century club, and has 
much-needed boost at the first position. Ann Bradshaw and Eniko Bende have been solid at second. Louderback has tried a couple different combinations at third, most recently Harris and Schwab, in an effort to get them in the lineup as much as possible. 
Harris will have her hands full this weekend. Kentucky is led by Susan Klingenberg, who is ranked 48th in the singles poll, and the Tar Heels' lineup boasts third· ranked Cinda Gurney. 
Harris is coming off a thrilling three-set victory over sixth-ranked Mandy Wilson of Tennessee, the second time in three matches with Wilson that she has emerged victorious. 
"That was a really gutty performance for Melissa because Mandy's serve was really booming," said Louderback. "Melissa deserves to be ranked among the top 10 players because Mandy Wilson is one of the best in the country." 
As they head into a stretch that will show how much this team has improved, the Irish have shown the confidence of winners. They bounced back after a season-opening loss at Illinois to win three straight, and now are set to overcome the Tennessee defeat. 
"I think we have the potential to pull off two wins," said Lisa Tholen. "We didn't have the experience in doubles that Tennessee had, but I don't think anyone was disappointed with how they played. If we bounce back, things will go our way and I think we'll have a successful rest of the season." 


notched a point in eight of his last ten games. 
"It's a milestone for me," said Curry. "I know Zadra and Curtis (Janicke) did it earlier this year, so it isn't that big of a deal, but it is a good achievement for me." 
Seniors Curry, Zadra, Kevin Patrick, Pat Arendt, Rob Copeland and Scott Vickman will lace up the skates for the last time at the Joyce this weekend. The seniors seem to me more focused at the task at hand, rather than sentimental goodbyes. 
"These are two games we have to win," explained Curry. "I just want to play the best game of my career. If we win these two games, we'll be all right going into the tourna­ment." 
Men's tennis travels to NW Illinois 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's men's tennis team will look to add two more tally marks to its win column this weekend, as coach Bob Bayliss leads his troops west to face Northwestern and Illinois. 
The Irish (6-1) are coming off of a third-place finish at the National Indoor Team Championships last weekend in Louisville, Ky. After Notre Dame knocked off fifth-ranked Florida and fourth-ranked Louisiana State, number-six Texas Christian downed the squad in four straight singles matches to take the semifinal dual match. 
The Irish may head into the weekend's matches without their top player, second-ranked Dave DiLucia, who has missed some practice this week due to a groin injury. DiLucia's playing status will not be known until Saturday, when the Irish face Northwestern in Evanston. 
"We need to do well without Dave," said Bayliss. "If we're going to be type of team we hope to be, we have to take cir­cumstances like this and turn them into opportunities." 
Notre Dame easily defeated both the Huskies and the Illini in dual-match play last season. Though each match was played at Notre Dame's Eck Tennis Pavilion, the 8-0 win over Illinois and 7-2 victory against 
f'\ORffiU CTnTER 76R TttE ~ R T s 
LIVE ON THE O'lAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM STAGE! 
THE FIRST NORTH AMERICAN TOUR BY ONE OF RUSSIA'S PREMIER DANCE COMPANIES 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4, 7:30P.M. • TICKETS: $16/$12/$8 


Tlckets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office. . 1±1--­located In O'Laughlln Auditorium. For Information Samt Mary's Coli~~ and charge card orders. call 219/284-4626. NOTRE DAME· I NOlANA 

Northwestern indicates the ad­vantage held by the Irish in 1991. However, Bayliss is hesi­tant to discount either team. 
"Northwestern beat Texas 8­1, which is the same score we had against them," he said. "I think they'll be a force in the Big Ten this season and it's al­ways tough when you play them in Evanston. 
"Illinois is an up-and-coming program and they opened their new indoor facility this year. That is really going to help their program." 
Northwestern is a traditional power in Midwestern tennis, and have several top players on their current roster. The Huskies' number-one player is Giora Payes, a transfer from UCLA. Todd Occomy, Jeff 
The Observer is acceptingapplications for the paid position of: 
Design Editor 
This position coordinates computer layout and design. No co~puter experience is necessary. 
Even1ng  and  late  night  positions  
available.  
Those  interested  should  contact  

Jeanne Blasi at 239-5303. 
• 
-=~~~==-­
Giraldo, Eric Blakeman and 4eoff Young are also factors in the Northwestern lineup. 
"We are better than they are," said Andy Zurcher, who will likely step into DiLucia's shoes at number one if the se­nior cannot play. "But they are a scrappy team, and over the years they have been very op­portunistic." 
After the team's success last weekend, most teams in the Midwest region have painted bull's-eyes on their dates with Notre Dame. 
"We become a real target at this point," said Bayliss. "If we scrape by these two teams and with our success at the national indoors, we'll be in line for a top-five ranking when the new rankings are released March 10." 
~ 

t• .-. f' I ,t , ,... ,.. .... , •·<111"\.l; ',,.... ...... ,.., ....,j 
1 
l j 

THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON 
j 


CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
CAMPUS 
Friday 

7 and 9 p.m. Movie, "Dead Poet's Society." Carroll Auditorium. Admission $2. 6-9 p.m. Auditions for "An Evening with Shakespeare.H esc Auditorium. Questions call Kris at 283-1295. 
6:30 and 9:30 p.m. Film, "An Angel at My Table." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission $2. 8 and 10:30 p.m. Film, "The Fisher King." Cushing Auditorium. Admission $2. 
7:30 p.m. Folk Dancing. Club House, SMC. Admission $. 
Saturday 

6:30 and 9:30 p.m. Film, "An Angel At My Table." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission $2. 8 and 10:30 p.m. Film, "The Fisher King." Cushing Auditorium. Admission $2. 
LECTURES 
@Edward Julius Collegiate CW84-15 
Saturday 
44 Vane direction 14 Scarum's counter­
ACROSS 
45 Block illegally part 1-3 p.m. Alumni Speaker Series: Saint Mary's College. Speakers include: Ellen Reagan, 1 Becomes dim 47 Compositions for 16 Ending for snicker freelance writer, class of 1982; Mary Lour Grono, class of '72, Vice President of Leo Burnett,
6 Decorative con-two 19 Surround with 
Inc.; Judith Jogns, CEO of Howard Brown Memorial Clinic (AIDS Clinic), class of '66; Dr.
tainers 48 Batting -trouble 
Sharon Harig, class of '77, an adult lung specialist. Haggar Parlor. 
11 Stately dance 49 Lanchester and 22 Discharged in a 12 Hatred Maxwell steam 14 Metric land measure 51 Be nosy 23 Periods of rule 7 p.m. Lecture, "The Physiology of Exercise." Kenneth Olson, University of Notre Dame. 
15 Lampoons 52 Walked in water 26 Work in burlesque 
283 Galvin Auditorium. 
17 Soviet cooperative 53 Go back over 27 Tropical fruit 18 Non-commercial 55 Nail polishes 30 Switch positionnetwork 57 Figure of speech 32 Art of printing20 Impish 58 Irks (abbr.) 
MENU
21 Journalist 59 Latin for dog 34 A short while agoJacob -60 Lively dances (2 wds.)22 Catch, as a line 35 Beautiful women drive 36 Pertaining to
DOWN
24 Facility disputation Saint Mary's • 25 Italian numeral 1 Science -38 Guides 26 Upset 2 Feeds the kitty 39 West coast ball Notre Dame 
28 Curved letter 3 Twofold club 
Philly Sandwich 

29 Unvaried voice 4 Poetic contraction 40 Exigencies 
Deli Bar 

31 Revolutionary War 5 Doing a dance 41 Summer drink 
Marinated Flank Steak Sandwich 
general 6 Feudal tenant 43 Coins of India Turkey Cutlets 33 Parsimony 7 Santa-46 Italian city Noodles Romanoff California Quiche 35 Suit 8 Location 48 Dromedary Chili Crispitoes 
37 Coach's strategy 9 Monsieur Zola 50 Spahn's teammate 
Fried Perch 

(2 wds.) 10 Finish skin diving 52 Salary41 Common suffix 11 Variety of sheep 54 Roman 151 
....

42 Reads 13 Sixes, in Spanish 56 Compass direction 
Fisher King 
Friday, February 28

THIS SUNDAY 
Saturday, February 29 
8 PM & 10:30 PM

Ho~ie Mandel 
Shown in

BUY TICKETS NOW!! 
Cushing Auditorium 
ND/SMC•••$10 Admission $2 
General Public..$15 Stepan Center at Sp.m. 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 


..----------------------------­
-Sports 
page 24 Friday, February 28,1992 
Men's hoops downs Loyola 
BY JENNIFER MARTEN again quickly as Taylor headed 
see Taylor page 21
Sports Writer inside with a dish from Ellis. On 
"Ellis is a tremendous threat. the other end of the court, It had to happen. He runs the floor like a gazelle Loyola moved the ball around The Notre Dame basketball and is a strain on any defense," looking for an opening as the 
team had to win last night's said Loyola coach Will Hey. shot clock wound down to :05 game against Loyola in order to Freshman Billy Taylor and seconds. Ali layed it in after a have any chance at a post­senior Elmer Bennett sealed the Sobczak pass which tied the season tournament bid. victory with two free throws game for the last time. 
"This was a had to," said apiece in the final minute, but Then, the Irish went on a 28­Notre Dame coach John the Rambler's fate was pretty 8 run that left Loyola shaking MacLeod. "We have no time. We much sealed in the first half. their heads and gave Notre are running out of space." "I feel the story of the game Dame a 32-12 advantage. 
Luckily, they did. The Irish came down to not scoring any Taylor scored 11 of his team­
pulled out a 76-67 victory points and falling down 32-12," leading 23 total points during against the Ramblers last night said Hey. "We dug a hole that the course of the spurt. at the JACC. The game was hung an albatross around our Feeling threatened, the reminiscent of the loss to necks. If we could've overcome Ramblers answered with 13 
Dayton on Tuesday night in that the first five minutes, the game straight points, 7 from Hunter after opening up a 20 point lead might have been a different Atkins (4 free throws, one 3­in the first half. the Irish story." pointer) and 5 from Eric allowed Loyola to climb to The Irish got off to a quick Dolezal, to bring to score to 32­within five with under two min­start with Ellis knocking the 25 with 3:38 to play in the half. utes remaining in the game. opening tip-off to senior Keith The scoring evened out a little Senior LaPhonso Ellis shut Tower and then hit a in the last four minutes of the down the Ramblers after that turnaround jumper down low half with Ellis and senior with two towering blocks. One off the feed from Tower. The Daimon Sweet hitting a jumper stopped a Kerman Ali dunk at­shot gave Notre Dame a lead and a layin apiece. Rogers 
tempt and the other sent they would never relinquish in nailed an 18-footer from the 
Loyola's final shot in the game the game. Keir Rogers, the baseline and Russell Wilson ricocheting in the wrong direc­Rambler's offensive threat, tied converted the three-point play tion. Ellis finished up the game it up on an alley-oop from for Loyola. Notre Dame took a with four blocks, 19 points, and teammate Don Sobczak. 42-30 lead into the halfway a team-high 11 rebounds. Notre Dame took the lead 
see MEN/page 21 
Women hope for NCAA bid after win over LU Ramblers 
By RENE FERRAN keep rolling right into the con­Freshman Michelle Marciniak bounded as badly as we did in as sophomore Kara Leary made Associate Sports Editor ference tourney to be held in for the third straight game the first half," said Loyola coach a beautiful reverse lay-in to Cincinnati, Ohio. The Irish can sparked the Irish off the bench, Marty Hawkins, as Notre Dame stem the Rambler rally. Senior CHICAGO-The Notre Dame earn the MCC's automatic spot scoring 13 points, grabbing six held a 26-10 halftime edge on Sherry Metz brought Loyola women's basketball team ap­in the NCAA's by capturing their rebounds and dishing out four the boards. "They had more within four again, but Notre pears to be peaking at just the fourth straight tournament title. assists. offensive rebounds (eight) than Dame then went on a 16-6 run right time. "We've got two big games "Michelle came off the bench we had individual boards (six), to up its lead to 59-45 with a 
The Irish won their fifth con­coming up against LSU and Old and gave us a lift," said and that's what got them the little over nine minutes secutive game last night, de­Dominion," said Notre Dame McGraw. "Everybody came in lead." remaining. feating the Loyola Ramblers 73-coach Muffet McGraw. "They'll tonight and did something good. "We were aggressive on the The Ramblers never were 66 at Alumni Gym to raise their give us an opportunity to see We finally have some good boards and really hustled after within 12 points again until the record to 11-14 overall, 8-4 in how we measure up against chemistry." the ball," explained McGraw. last minute of the game. the Midwestern Collegiate outside competition and get us The Irish got off to a slow "We talked before the game "I don't think (Leary) ever Conference. The victory ready for the NCAA start, trailing 16-15 to Loyola about how the guards had to makes a mistake," said clinched at least the number Tournament." (9-16, 5-6) with 10:26 remain­rebound, and they did tonight." Hawkins. "She does all the lit­two seed for Notre Dame at the The Irish used balanced ing in the first half. But Notre Loyola made a run early in tle things a coach loves to see, MCC Tournament in two weeks. scoring and a 41-25 rebounding Dame rattled off 10 straight the second half. Senior Sandy and she gets the ball to the 
More importantly, the Irish edge last night to snap the points, and out scored the O'Shaugnessy scored eight of right people all the time." are gaining momentum down Ramblers three-game winning Ramblers 20-8 the rest of the the Ramblers' first 12 points of Leary finished with seven points the stretch in their drive for an streak. Four Notre Dame play­half to take a 35-34 halftime the half as Loyola cut the lead and three assists. NCAA bid. With only two non­ers were in double-figures, led lead. to four, 41-37, with 15:57 re­Metz led all scorers with 21 conference games left on the by senior Margaret Nowlin with "This is just too good of a maining. points and 10 rebounds, while slate, Notre Dame hopes to 18 points. team for us to get out re-But Loyola could get no closer, O'Shaughnessy added 11 points. 
Tim Trainor 
gets upset in 
Bengal Bouts 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
The biggest upset of the Bengal Bouts took place yes­terday, on a day when no bouts were scheduled. 
Matt Raulston upset divi­sional favorite Tim Trainor in the rescheduled 165-pound semifinal bout, earning a split decision in front of a small crowd at the JACC boxing room. 
The bout, scheduled for Wednesday, was postponed un­til today, due to travel compli­cations in Trainor's return from a medical school interview in Massachusetts. 
In the opening round, Trainor appeared to have the edge. Raulston was unsuccessful in his attempts to box with Trainor, and seemed both slug­gish and undisciplined, as he repeatedly lowered his guard. 
The second round seemed again to belong to Trainor, but Raulston found some success throwing punches to Trainor's body, then following with a strong roundhouse right. 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Tim "Express" Trainor (gold trunks), shown here in quarterfinal action, was upset by Matt Raulston yesterday in the 165-pound division. 
see BOUTS I page 18 















