


FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


1542·1992 
Sf SQU IC! N!E NNIAl 

VOL. XXIV NO. 3 


The never-ending story 
The Notre Dame campus sprawls beneath a hovering shelf of library books. Reality meets the written word in what appears to be an optical illusion: books reaching through the invisible window of time. Today some of these books may contain the history of the Gulf War which began one year ago today. 
Support group formed for families, friends of homosexuals 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
By starting a new support group for families and friends of homosexuals, organizers like Notre Dame Professor Edward Manier have focused on inter­ests that make this new organi­zation distinct from Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC). 
Families and Friends of Les­bians and Gays at Notre Dame & Saint Mary's College (F-FLAG ND/SMC) involves only those who are related to or ac­quainted with homosexuals be­cause they have "a different set of concerns" than students or other people, he said. 
"This group is intended to reach a group of people who would include some who wouldn't come near a meeting if they thought it was a front for GLND/SMC," Manier said. 
The issue of homosexuality is 


Groups remember Gulf War with peace rally and prayer 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT 
News Writer 
Members of Campus Ministry and the World Peace Action Group conducted a prayer ser­
• 
Related Gulf War stories/ page 5 

• 
Accent spread/ pages 10,11 


vice and peace rally yesterday to commemorate the one year anniversary of the beginning of the Gulf War. 
The rally, held in front of the peace memorial at noon was led by Marcie Poorman, Jeff Jotz, and Christine Kempf, co­presidents of the World Peace Action <;roup. It was planned for people vvh<> wished to "remember and mourn what happened a year ago," Poor­man said. Two students held a black coffin bearing the in­scription, "150,000 Dead," an estimation of the number of ca­sualties in the Gulf War. 
The speakers at the rally fo­cused on the negative conse­quences of the war. Besides the high number of casualties, an­other five to six million people were displaced as a result of injuries, starvation, and dis­ease. Those who suffered in the war were "not nameless and faceless enemies. They were men and women like you and me," according to Poorman. 
Members of the World Peace Action Group spoke a year ago at the same spot in protest against the war. In both rallies, the group wished to "check on our country's conscience," Kempf said. 
As peacemakers, they wished to "show what we lost in the war. Peace is not an easy road, but it is the only road we can afford to travel," she added. 
Jotz also meditated on what was lost in the war. "Human dey_astation was viewed as re­mOTir" con.p~tQr blios on the 
televison screen," ~ sald. H .. criticized the media for failing to portray the war and its con­sequences realistically. 
The peace rally concluded in a prayerful reflection presented by Father Tom McDermott of 
see PEACE/ page 6 



Pope gives title to Sacred Heart 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Assistant News Editor 
Sacred Heart Church, which has been a center of worship at Notre Dame for more than 120 years, has received what Rector Father Daniel Jenky called "a great honor (for) the building and the faith community," from Pope John Paul II. 
The Vatican has named Sacred Heart a minor basilica, a distinction which recognizes historically important churches and significant centers of worship and devotion. 
The distinction is "a papal recognition that Sacred Heart is a church with an international reputation; it is a center for prayer, pilgrimage and devotion and a place where the liturgy is done with amplified richness," Jenky said. 
"The pope is giving us a pat on the head," he said. 
The church can now use the title Basilica of the Sacred Heart of Jesus. However, Jenky said, it will not be named a major basilica, since that title is reserved for buildings in Rome, such as St. Peter's. 
Sacred Heart will celebrate the honor at a special mass Sunday at 10 a.m. "We're going to pull out all the stops," Jenky said. 
Along with the new title, Sacred Heart will receive a papal coat of arms to be displayed over the main doors, a basilica 
see CHURCH/ page 4 

"very controversial, almost too hot to touch" for many faculty members, according to Manier. F-FLAG ND/SMC hopes to change that stereotype and to "domesticate the issue." 
One way the organization can help faculty and staff members is to discuss issues of family concern, such as the role gen­der stereotyping plays in child~ hood development. 
The group hopes to promote a "pastoral, academic and social environment at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College en­abling students struggling with the question of their sexual identity and students who def­initely understand themselves as homosexuals to flourish," according to a press release. 
F-FLAG ND/SMC held its first meeting in December, and is holding an organizational meeting Sunday from 3 to 5 
p.m. in the Auditorium Lounge of the Hesburgh Library. Ap­proximately one dozen people attended the December meet­ing, and Manier said another dozen have indicated interest in attending Sunday's meeting. 
Although the meeting is re­served for faculty and staff, the group welcomes representatives from Campus Ministry and University Counseling Center. 
As education is a focus of the group, it makes sense to Manier 
see F-FLAG/ page 4 


The World Peace Action Group conducted a prayer service and peace rally yesterday to commemorate the one year anniversary of the beginning of the Gulf War. Janet Meissner, last year's president of the Gulf Crisis Action Group, is the speaker in this photo taken at a rally on Jan. 15, 1991. 
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



A new breed 
of New Year's 

resolutions 
First of all, to all those 
who were offended by my 
last column, please accept 
my apologies. Insulting 
the employees of this 
university was not my 
intention. 
Due to this last column, 

and the columns that have Paul Pearson 
preceded it, I seem to be Asst. News 
getting a reputation for Editor 
being a pessimist. This is ------­
beginning to upset me. Therefore, I have 
made a New Year's resolution not to look at 
things so negatively. I don't know how long it 
will last, but I will give it a shot. 
While I was considering this resolution, I 
thought of a few resolutions that I would like 
to see implemented this year: 

• 
President Bush should make a resolution to spend less time doing embarrassing things abroad, and spend more time at home. Let Dan Quayle do embarrassing things (he seems better at doing it, anyway). 

• 
From reading the letter in Wednesday's Observer, it appears that HPC should make a resolution to go on a diet. 

• 
The bookstore should resolve to adopt more ethical buy-back policies. Right now, it claims to follow "the international laws of supply and demand," (translation: the pro­fessors demand, and the bookstore supplies). 

• 
I'd tell Mario Cuomo to make a resolution, but I know better. lt would take him until December 30th to decide whether or not to follow it. 

• 
The national media should resolve to stop fulfilling America's craving for torrid, R-rated sexual stories. They should stick to warfare and violence, their specialty. 

• 
It would be a good idea for Florida fans to resolve not to make humorous references to Cheerios anymore. (P.S. Thank you for that victory, Lou! Since I live in Florida, that win saved me a lot of grief.) 

• 
The administration might want make a resolution to believe Michael Vore the next time he tells them something. 

• 
The plotters of that so-called coup in the no-longer-called Soviet Union should resolve to think more before they act (and, if one article in the Dec. 30 issue of Time is correct, they should also resolve not to drink so much). 

• 
The heads of the "Big Three" (Chrysler, General Motors and Ford) might resolve to take a paycut, since the companies that pay them several million dollars each year lost several billion dollars last year (and, while they are at it, they can resolve to fight their own battles against Japan and not have the president deliver their messages for them). 

• 
The people who have brought DART to the student body should resolve that they will find someone else to torture this year, and finally, 

• 
Patty O'Hara and the rest of Student Affairs can resolve to trust us students more (because I'm not sure she can trust us any less, unless she follows my humorous suggestion from my last column and tit the students with chastity belts). 


Now, if these fme and upstanding members of society would agree to try to live up to these suggested resolutions, I would be more than happy to abide by mine. 
If not, well, I tried. 

The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Friday's Staff Etc. Production Shonda Wilson Peggy Crooks Cristina Ortiz 
Bryan Nowicki 

Jeannie Shin Systems Gerne HarriganFranz Valsaint 
Scoreboard 
News 

Jennifer Marten Meredith McCullough 
Lab Tech. Steve Zavestoski Macy Hueckel 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

EC leaders meet MAASTRICHT, Netherlands -Leaders of the 12 European Community nations sought today to agree to terms that would create a political and economic powerhouse. "It is a question of Europe getting a set­tlement, an agreement which everybody in Europe can subscribe to," Prime Minister John Major of Britain told reporters. The summit is probably the most important of the community's 34-year history, with leaders striving to develop the political muscle to match the bloc's economic might. The leaders Monday tentatively agreed on a plan to establish a common currency for the community., 

NATIONAL 
..... 
Friday, January 17,1991 
P'OR!CAST: Today will be mostly cloudy with 20 m.p.h. winds 
and a chance of snow. Highs will be 
in the upper 20s. 
City  H  L  
Athens  55  43  
Atlanta  42  19  
Barcelona  42  36  
Boston  36  18  
Cairo  61  52  
Chicago  20  ·12  
Denver  39  15  
Fairbanks  8  ·5  
Great Falls  41  37  
Honolulu  76  65  
Houston  59  28  
Indianapolis  25  ·8  
London  45  37  
Los Angeles  75  50  
Mlarri Beach  64  46  
New Orleans  51  36  
New York  34  26  
Paris  45  41  
Phlladephla  33  26  
Rome  55  25  
San Diego  75  45  
San Francisco  60  44  
South Bend  21  ·II  
Tokyo  46  32  
Washington, D.C.  35  24  



Movie ticket sales down LOS ANGELES -Movie attendance in the United States last year hit a 15-year low of 968 million, but a rise in ticket prices cushioned the blow. The box office for 1991 totaled $4.85 billion, the third-highest on record but a drop of about 3 percent from the previous year, when 1.06 billion tickets were sold, Daily Variety reported this week. Daily Variety said the average ticket price rose from $4.75 to $5.01 last year. It said several factors could explain the drop in attendance, including lower quality movies and the recession. 
Mother Teresa recovering in Mexico LA JOLLA, Calif. -Mother Teresa fulfilled the prayers of followers by walking out of a hospital after three weeks of treatment for pneumonia and heart 

OF INTEREST 
• 
A mandatory informational meeting for those interested in running for Student Body President/Vice President will be held at 7 p.m. on Thursday, Jan. 23 in the Student Government Office on the 2nd floor of LaFor­tune. Call 283-2032 if you have any questions. 

• 
Urban Plunge participants are required to attend the follow-up meeting on January 19 at 6:30p.m. in the Library Auditorium. You will be broken into groups to go to faculty/staff homes for discussion of your Plunge 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ January 16, 

problems. The 81-year-old Roman Catholic nun said that she felt "much better, thank God." She left the hospital in her trademark blue-trimmed white sari and a blue sweater. She returned to her Missionaries of Charity order in Tijuana, Mexico, to recuperate. Mother Teresa fell ill there last month and was hospitalized at Scripps Clinic and Mother Teresa Research Foundation Dec. 26 with pneumonia. The pneumonia triggered congestive heart failure, and doctors had to perform an artery­opening procedure. Mother Teresa won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1979 for her work with the poor of Calcutta, India. 


INDIANA 

Local Archbishop dies INDIANAPOLIS -An estimated 40 cardinals, archbishops and bishops will gather today in Indianapolis for the funeral of Archbishop Edward O'Meara. whose faith and service touched the lives of people from the Archdiocese of Indianapolis to the Third World. O'Meara, 70, died Friday on the 12th anniversary of his installation as the fourth archbishop of Indianapolis. He was the spiritual leader of 200,000 southern Indiana Catholics and, until his failing lungs forced him to curtail his duties last September, had served millions of impoverished people and refugees worldwide as head of Catholic Relief Services. 
experiences. You will be returned to campus by lOp.m. 
• 
Students for Environmental Action (SEA) will hold an organizational meeting Sunday at Montgomery Theater in LaFortune at 7 p.m. 

• 
Mass will be held Saturday, Jan. 18, at 11:30 a.m. in memory of Dr. Thomas Dooley. The mass, which is scheduled on the anniversary of Dooley's birthday, will be in the Crypt. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
On January 17: 

• In 1916: The original Dixieland bann opened at the Reisenweber's restaurant in 1\1~-¥Uri\. 
In "1SZ7: The founder of the Girl Scouts, Juliette Low, died at the age of 67. 
• In 1936: The German Minister of Propaganda Dr. Joseph Goebbels declared in front of a crowd of 18,000 that Germany must soon have colonies. Referring to the army's increasing need for raw 
materials, Goebbels said, "We can get along without butter, but never without cannon." 
• In 1973: The Public Health Service linked smoking to fetal and infant risks. 
-----------------------------.....1 
SMC ·committee formed to plan goals for fu~ure 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
A committee has been formed to study and develop recom­mendations for short and long term goals and priorities to guide Saint Mary's College into the 21st century. 
Donald Horning, associate professor of sociology and chair of the sociology, anthropology, and social work departments, was named chair of the committee in August. The other members comprising the committee were chosen in Oc­tober and consist of members of the faculty, administration and student body. 
Each member of the coordi­nation committee was asked to serve as the co-chair of one of the five task forces, according to Horning. These task forces identified specific concerns to address and formed study groups to address them. 
"Over 40 study groups have been formed and they are now starting their work," said Horning. 
The study groups will report their finaings to the task forces who will report the findings to the coordinating committee. 

The committee will "examine the materials, establish short and long-term goals" and re­port their recommendations to the Board of Regents at their fall meeting, according to Horning. 
Horning served as the chair of a similar committee that de­cided to establish long-term goals for the college following the break-down of the merger between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. Three of the buildings on the campus-Angela Athletic Facility, Cushwa-Leighton Library, and the Science Building-were results of the long-term goals of the committee. 
"We are at that stage again, it is time to look again," said Horning. "It is time to decide where do we go from here." 
Horning described the pro­cess as "rolling." 
"Planning isn't something that happens every 20 years. it is on-going," said Horning. 
"We have to determine what can we continue to do to make 
The Observer/Pat McHugh 

Saint Mary's one of the top women's colleges in the coun­JPW preparationstry," said Horning. 
Sophomore Bernadette Naval takes care of some paperwork for the upcoming Junior Parents Weekend which begins Friday, Feb. 14. 



China, U.S. solve trade disputes 
= BIBLE REVIVAL 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The United States and China
CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY* 
*C. B.S. 
Inter Faith Bible Study Tuesday, January 21, 1992 and e1•ery Tuesday 
Meetings: 7:00 P.M. one hour sessions (bring your own Bible) in the Conference Room of Campus Ministry Badin Hall 
Directed by: Fr. Al D'Alonzo, .-For additional information call: 


~ l'G/ 
239-6633 or 239-5955 
0MPU5 
C.S.C. 
•'. 
~ 

MIN/STRYAll are invited to attend 
bringing its trade regime closer 
to international norms," Hills 
said in a statement. 
"Principal beneficiaries will 

include pharmaceutical, enter­tainment, computer and agri­
chemical industries," she said. 
U.S. trade officials have called China the "single largest pirateer worldwide of U.S. copyrights," and American business say they have lost $430 million annually from Chinese copyright violations on everything from drugs and computer programs to clothing and records. 
In the settlement Thursday, China agreed to join an interna­tional convention that protects copyrights and said it will begin providing patent protection for drugs and agricultural chemi­cals on Jan. 1, 1993. 
The agreement, reached only hours before a midnight dead­line, followed a week of lengthy negotiations and averted a threatened trade war between the two countries. 
Chinese officials had said last week that if the Bush adminis­tration went ahead with tariffs of up to 100 percent on selected Chinese imports, they would re­taliate by imposing sanctions on up to $1.2 billion of American goods sold in China. 
A senior U.S. trade official, who briefed reporters on condi­tion of anonymity, said the fmal hang-up in the negotiations in­volved protection for pharma­ceuticals and farm chemical products such as pesticides and fertilizers. 
He said the United States achieved all of its goals and that 
U.S. industry representatives were happy with the outcome. 
The official refused to put a dollar figure on how much in increased sales would be achieved, but he said American companies should begin seeing positive effects almost immedi­ately. 
"Ask IBM and other compa­nies with copyrighted products. There should be an immediate payoff," he said. 
The copyright dispute is just the latest in a series of frictions between the United States and China. Relations between the two nations have deteriorated since Chinese troops crushed a pro-democracy movement in June 1989. 
Since the mid-1980s. the United States has watched its trade deficit with China sky­rocket as imports from that country increased almost four­fold since 1985. 


reached agreement late Thurs­day in a contentious trade dis­pute involving protection of 
American  copyrights  and  
patents. U.S.  officials  an­ 
nounced.  

The agreement came only hours before the Bush adminis­tration had said it would begin imposing tariffs of up to 100 percent on a range of Chinese exports to the United States. 
As a result of the successful negotiations, U.S. Trade Repre­sentative Carla Hills said she was terminating the threat of higher tariffs on up to $1.5 bil­lion worth of Chinese imports. 
Hills said that under the agreement, China will make significant improvements in its patent and copyright laws . 
"This agreement demon­strates that in an area of criti­
.cal importance to the U.S. 
economy, China is willing to 
take important steps toward 
THE GULF WAR-ONE YEAR LATER 
asarles of evants to remember and analyze tile Persian Gun conflict 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 18,1991 
CAMPUS COMPETITION 
12:00 NOON -prayer and reflection at the War Memorial 
Racquetball Doubles (Men & Women) 
7:00 pm -Forum and Discussion In the Ubrary Auditorium
Co-Ree Volleyball INTERHALL COMPETITION 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1991 
Team Racquetball (Men & Women) 
5:15 pm -Mass for the Dead at Sacred Heart Church 
GRADIFAC/STAFF COMPETITION 
Educational VIdeos will be shown throughout both days at the center lor SOdal COncerns
Volleyball 

QUESTIONS ? CALL ... 239-6100 

DEADLINE-JANUARY 22 

page4 The Observer Friday, January 17,1992 
San Salvador rejoices; Speaker not Pact ends 12-year war yet found for 
Remington Court 
MEXICO CITY (AP) -Sal­vadoran government and rebel leaders signed a hard-won pact Thursday putting a formal end to 12 years of civil war that left at least 75,000 people dead. 
In San Salvador, church bells pealed and celebrations broke out at news of the signing. In the flag-draped ceremony room at Mexico City's historic Cha­pultepec Castle, some rebel and government representatives hugged or shook hands, and a few wept. 

"The long night of El Salvador is ending," said U.N. Secretary­General Boutros Boutros-Ghali. "It is a time to rejoice and celebrate." 
The pact calls for a Feb. 1 cease-fire, the eventual disman­tling of guerrilla forces, the re­duction of the military by half, reforms in the judicial and elec­toral systems and land reform. 
Agreement was reached after nearly two years of United Na­tions-mediated negotiations. 
At a news conference. Presi­dent Alfredo Cristiani said that with a peace accord signed he had no problem with the thought that former rebels could take power in El Salvador by way of elections. 
"There's absolutely no fear," Cristiani said. "If they do it, they're welcome. This is democ­racy. But they must do it within 

Church 
continued from page 1 
bell to be carried in proces­sions, and a special umbrellum. or canopy. A special conference of U.S. bishops will come to Sa­cred Heart in June. Jenky hopes that the new items will arrive in time for the conference. 
Bishop John D'Arcy of Fort Wayne/South Bend petitioned the Vatican for Sacred Heart's designation. showing that "Sacred Heart is an important 
F-FLAG 
continued from page 1 
to involve Campus Ministry and the Counseling Center in plans to bring speakers to the community and other activities. "Education here really isn't going to be as complete if it doesn't involve both of them," he said.But support for F-FLAG 
II The best American movie of the Nineties!II 
Donald Lyons, FILM COMMENT 
11 Gus VanSant makes a big bold leap to join Jim Jarmusch and the Coen brothers in the front ranks of America1s most innovative independent film makers. The film itself is invigorating-written, directed and acted with enormous insight and COmiC elan. 11 -VIncent Canby, N.Y. TIMES 
11 ****'Exceptional ... so delightfully different and daringthat it renews your faith. 11 -Marsha.ll Fine, GANNE'I'I' NEWs sERVICE 
"A tenderly comical andbeautiful piece of work." 
-David Denby, NEW YORK MAGAZINE 
"Two Thumbs Up!"-stskel & Ebert 
RIVER KEANU 
PHOENIX REEVES 

MY OWN 

PRIVATE IDAHO 
A FILM 8Y GUa VAN aANT 

FINE LINE FEATURES....,..,.. RIVER PHOENIX KEANU REEVES nr"MY OWN PRIVATE IDAHO' JAMES RUSSO WILLIAM RICHERT RODNEY HARVEY MICHAEL PARKER FLEA CHIARA CASEIJJ UD UDO KIER .,"HANS'"' IWllll ALLAN MINDEL ...iJlllPll BEATRIX ARUNA PASZTOR Wl!ll GUS VANSANT .llll!llllli'! DAVID BRISBIN "'""! CURT188 CLA.Y'l'ON ~ERIC ALAN EDWARDS..,JOHN CAMPBELL """'f' LAURIE PARKER '!llllWtfi GUS VAN SANT FFlNELINEIRJ-..:IIWII.,&-1 !-...='~t IIW 1.111 CllllllA CDU fEATURES
CIIUI ALL 11/0ITI IUUIIUD
. 

Notre Dame Communication & Theatre 
CIDEffiR RT THE SDITE 
Friday and Saturday 7:30 and 9:30 
the democratic framework." 
A short time later he returned home to San Salvador, where wildly cheering crowds cele­brated the end of the country's worst civil upheaval. 
Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari hosted the ceremony, which was also a summit. Seven other Latin American presidents and Span­ish prime minister Felipe Gon­zalez witnessed the signing of the document. 
Secretary of State James A. Baker III represented President Bush. 
The signing was held at a green-covered table. Red, white and yellow roses decorated the space between the visiting dig­nitaries and the signers. who included five rebel leaders and five government representatives headed by Presidency Minister Oscar Santamaria. 
Cristiani admitted there may be diehards who do not want to give up the fight in El Salvador, and he said he would fight them. 
He named no names, but it is well known that towards the end of the peace negotiations in New York in December he had to contend with ultra-rightist groups in the military who op­posed giving any concessions to the rebels. 
place in the diocese," Jenky said. "The idea behind it was to help celebrate the university's sesquicentennial." 

According to Jenky, Sacred Heart's designation as a minor basilica stresses that the church is part of something universal and international. "Every Sunday at mass, we are part of something that reaches around the world," he said. 
Construction for the present Sacred Heart Church began in 1870, and the cornerstone was placed in 1871. Mass was first 
ND/SMC from Campus Ministry has been "problematic," ac­cording to Manier, who declined further comment. 
Father Richard Warner, di­rector of Campus Ministry, de­clined to comment on the group or the possibility of representa­tives from Campus Ministry at­tending Sunday's meeting. 
Representatives from Univer­sity Counseling Center were unavailable for comment. 

Sacred Heart contains the serve in the Roman army. 
graduation 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
The Class of 1992 is still without a commencement speaker. . 
While rumors continue to cir­culate, the University is still waiting to hear from the vari­ous people invited to speak or to receive an honorary degree at the May 17 commencement, according to Dennis Moore, di­rector of Public Relations and Information. 
"Normally, we're dealing with pretty high-powered people," Moore said. "You don't always get an immediate response." 
If the University receives con­firmation of a speaker before the total list of honorary degree recipients is available, the announcement of the speaker will be made immediately, he added. 
Although the announcements of the speakers the last two years was made around this time of year, Moore stressed that those were unusual situa­tions and "more the exception than the rule." 
Bill Cosby and Margaret O'Brien Steinfels spoke in 1990 and 1991, respectively. 
Recommendations for honorary degrees and com­mencement speaker are rela­tively open for faculty and offi­cials to make, Moore said. Final decisions, however, are made by University President Father Edward Malloy. 

+"·"'·--­

celebrated in the church in 1875, and Bishop Joseph Dwenger of Fort Wayne offi­cially consecrated it on Aug. 15, 1888. 
relics of two saints: St. Severa, a third century Roman martyr, and St. Marcellus, a third cen­tury conscientious objector who was executed for refusing to 

Free -ONE MONTH RENT Til February 1st No Security Deposit Free Garage or Carport (while availability last) Free Remington Court MOVING VAN! Free MINI & VERTICAL Blinds Included Free Washer $ Dryers Free Microwaves Free Alarm Systems 
ON MAIN ST. 
BETWEEN McKINLEY & EDISON 
2 Bedroom also available 
WASHINGTON (AP) -On the first anniversary of the Persian Gulf War, President Bush said Thursday that Americans should "take pride" in the de­feat of Iraq even though it failed to drive a defiant Saddam Hussein from power. 
Although Bush called anew for Iraqi citizens to oust Sad­dam, the White House made clear that the United States would stay on the sidelines rather than step in again with military force to oust him. 
"We don't anticipate anything unilateral," White House press secretary Marlin Fitzwater said. 
Brent Scowcroft, Bush's na­tional security adviser, said, "Our military objectives were achieved and I don't think we would start over again to do that. It's fundamentally up to the Iraqi people." 
White House strategists hope the focus on the war's anniver­sary will boost Bush's re-elec­tion campaign. He has started reminding campaign audiences of his leadership in the war, promising to exert the same energy to lift the nation from recession. 
Bush had soared to record heights in polls last year be­cause of the war, but the ratings slipped to the lowest point in his 
--~-­

The Pentagon's final list of casualties In the Persian Gulf War: 
Died of wounds received in action: 2 
Wounded: 357 
Non-hostile deaths: 122 


. •.-..,. ·•1' The Observer 

stopped the fighting too soon, Bush said the U.S.-led coalition "fought a limited war for a lim­ited but vitally important pur­pose. It prevailed. 
"Saddam's Iraq is weak and isolated, unable to impose its extremist policies on the region or the peace process," the president said in a written statement which Fitzwater read before television cameras. 
Scowcroft said that Saddam "is not a threat right now" but that "the guy obviously has not changed his objectives..... He's hiding stuff; he's spending money rebuilding" his weapons. 
Democrats did not let Bush's victory claim go unchallenged. 
"We must not forget the hu­man suffering which the war set in motion," said Democratic presidential candidate Paul Tsongas. "The president's fail­ure of nerve and commitment stranded thousands of Kurds and other Iraqis who heeded his call to overthrow Saddam Hussein." 
Turning to the economic problems faced by some Ameri­cans returning from the war, Tsongas asked, "How many of those troops are unemployed today? How many face an uncertain future of dwindling incomes, debt and even foreclo­sure on their homes?" 
In his statement, Bush said, "The American people and I remain determined to keep the pressure on Saddam until a new leadership comes to power in Iraq." 
Recalling his dramatic an­nouncement of the start of the war, Bush said, "We can all take pride in the results of that effort -Kuwait is liberated and the legitimate government restored, the fires set by Saddam's retreating army are ex­tinguished, the flow of oil from the gulf is secure from political and economic blackmail. Much of Iraq's arsenal is destroyed and what remains is now under international supervision, and the United Nations has been greatly strengthened." 
Fitzwater acknowledged at a press briefing that the United States is not satisfied with Kuwait's tentative steps toward democracy. "There isn't the kind of democracy that we would like to see.... Some progress has been made; we would like to see more." 
Fitzwater said the adminis­tration was determined to en­force U.N. sanctions demanding the elimination of Iraq's nuclear weapons. 

No known totals exist on Iraqis killed in action but the number is believed to be in the tens of thousands. 
L------------~AP 
presidency as the afterglow of 
the war gave way to deep 
anxiety about economic 
problems. 
Fitzwater said Bush's conduct 
of the war would be a sig­
nificant factor in the race, 
demonstrating presidential 
leadership. "It's one of the ma­
jor reasons why people vote for 
a president," he said. 
Sensitive to criticism that he 
Iraqi demonstrations denounce allied attack 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) ­Demonstrations were held in Baghdad and other Iraqi cities Thursday to denounce the allied attack launched a year ago and demand an end to the U.N. eco­nomic embargo imposed after Baghdad's invasion of Kuwait. 
Demonstrators in the capital shouted slogans such as "Death to the enemies of Iraq!" and "Yes to Saddam Hussein!" 
The Iraqi News Agency said Saddam would give an impor­tant speech Friday marking the anniversary of the start of the U.S.-led war to drive Iraq from Kuwait. It began with allied bombing the night of Jan. 16­17. 
The Iraqi parliament bestowed Saddam with a new honor that was called the Order of the People, the news agency said. At a ceremony, parliament speaker Sadi Mehdi Saleh was quoted as saying: 
"It has become clear to the world that the unity between the people and leader is the se­cret of this pride and progress in all fields. The forces of evil, led by America and Zionism, targeted this great people through their leader, and hatched plots against the per­son of the leader to assassinate an entire people." 
Although INA described the protests Thursday as sponta­neous, the ruling Arab Baath Socialist Party normally stages such events. 
"All main public squares in Baghdad, the governances and cities witnessed angry protest marches that strongly de­nounced the American-Atlantic aggression for which the forces of aggression had mobilized all scientific and technological ca­pabilities in order to destroy the Iraqi people and its scientific and technological progress," the news agency said. 
In Baghdad, scores of mostly male demonstrators of varying ages carried banners written in Arabic and shook their fists for the cameras. 
The Iraqi News Agency dis­patch, monitored in Nicosia, said the demonstrators "sent salutes to Saddam and his leadership in the mother of all battles. They demanded that the free peoples of the world and organizations punish those who commit successive crimes against the Iraqi people by America and its allies." 
It said the demonstrators also demanded the lifting of the economic embargo, "which has victimized hundreds of thou­sands of children, women and old people by causing food and medicine shortages." 
The United Nations allows food and medicine to be sent to Iraq, but Baghdad is short of cash to pay for them. 


JNTERESTEO:IN BEING :A LECTOR AT: 
•• 0 •••••••••••••••• 0 •••• 
:TH:E: JP:W: MASS?: 
•••••• 0 ••••• 0 • 0 ••••••••• 
:: :SIGN~UP FOR::: 
0 ••• 0 •••••••••••••• 0 0 ••• 


:AUDITIONS :IN: RM: 308
L .FORTu·.N..E
. ·a . ... ...... . 
• • 0 0 • • • 0 0 ••• 
o:F.~: iN :tt.te: sto:o:ENt: 
••••••••••••••• 0 ••••• 0 ••••• 
0 

:ACTIVITIES: OFFICE: 
.................... 
::ey: FRIDAY: :: 
................. '.. 
.. . . . ·1·7·.




'JANUARY·····
. . . . . . . . . .. 


page 6 The Observer Friday, January 17,1992 

Colombian drug cartel still actively trading 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A ca­
sual viewer of the television 
mini-series "Drug Wars: The 
Cocaine Cartel" airing this 
weekend might get the 
impression that the good guys 
have won the battle against 
Colombian drug traffickers. 

It's true that many leaders 
of the Medellin Cartel, once 
the world's mightiest cocaine 
production and distribution 
network, are either 
incarcerated or dead. 

But law enforcement 
officials say a rival cartel 
based in Cali, Colombia, has 
simply replaced them, and the 
cocaine trade is as active as 
ever. 

The NBC mini-series, airing Sunday and Monday nights, differs from many aimed at American audiences in that it goes beyond the heroics of 
U.S. agents. Instead, it focuses largely on courageous Colombians who waged war against the traffickers despite death threats and assassinations. 
Those efforts effectively re­duced "the ability of the Medellin Cartel to produce and distribute the vast quantities of cocaine it had heretofore been distributing," said the Drug Enforcement Administration chief, Robert Bonner. 
That led to "the fairly dra­matic price rise we saw in 1990 in the United States, when the wholesale price of cocaine rose around 50 percent on average in all major cities," Bonner said before an advance screening of the mini-series at DEA headquarters. 
"Now what's happened is the Cali Cartel has picked up that slack, starting in 1990 and into last year, so that the overall production and distribution of cocaine is now close to where it was ... before the crackdown on the Medellin Cartel," he said. 
A Colombian official said his country has remained vigilant. 
Last year Colombian law enforcement agencies seized more than 72 tons of cocaine, 



Peace 
continued from page 1 

Campus Ministry. He urged those at the rally to "stand to­gether for the justice and liber­ation of every suffering victim." A moment of silence for the vic­tims followed this reflection. 
A mass for the victims of the Gulf War will be held at Sacred Heart Church today at 5:15 p.m. 

There's only one way to come out ahead ol the pack. 
I 
l 

said Brig. Gen. ·Miguel 
Antonio Gomez Padilla, 
general director of the 
Colombian National Police. 
"In the last one or two 
months." he said, "several 
raids have taken place 
directed mostly t.o hit the 
financial and economic 
structure of the Cali Cartel." 

Colombian and U.S. officials 
have long known the Cali Car­
tel's potential, but the 
Medellin Cartel got the most 
attention. 
For good reason. 

The Medellin Cartel 
supplied more cocaine and 
was far more combative, 
thanks to the volatile nature 
of Jose Gonzalo Rodriguez 
Gacha, killed in a 1989 
shootout with Colombian 
authorities. The cartel waged 
a campaign of violence that, 
over the past decade, killed 

hundreds of government 
officials. law enforcement 
agents, judges and people 
who got in the way. 

The cartel's reputed head, Pablo Escobar Gaviria, even today reportedly manages to run his former empire from a luxurious jail, where he's awaiting trial on drug trafficking and homicide charges. He and many associates surrendered last year when the government of­fered lenient sentences and no extradition for those who agreed to plead guilty to at least one crime. 
Both Bonner and Gomez Padilla said eliminating drug traffickers and confiscating their goods alone won't eradi­cate the organizations. What is needed, they said, is for people to stop using the drug. 
Instead, cocaine use went up last year, according to the National Household Survey on Drug Abuse. While use of drugs in general declined, cocaine use rose to 1. 9 million who had taken the drug in the previous month, up from 1.6 million in 1990. 
It's U.S. "consumption of co­caine that contributes to the power and corrupting influence of these truly evil organizations," said Bonner. 

~Ib©@~ J;31£.©IK Ifrni@~ !!rnl~ rnl@~ITWL&)Jf§ij rnl@IP~ !!rnl~W W~rni~ @rni~£1!! W£1Wf§ @WWij 
"Back in the Swing of Things Specials" 
<must present coupon!> 
----------------------~-----------------------------~-----------------------­


$6.00 +tax 
$9.9S +tax 
$I2.9S +tax Lg Pepperoni Lg "I" Topping, 
Z·Lg Double 
no substitutes 
Breadstix, 2 Cokes 


Pepperoni
7 ·close 

Sprite, Diet, or Rootbeer Umlt "1"
Uadt "1" per coupon coupon Uadt "1" per coupon thru 1/31/97.
thru 113119,_ 

thru 1/31/97.

-----------------------~-----------------------------L-------------------~---­
23 and Ironwood (next to Subway) 












271-1177 
Tax exemption increases possible 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The economic proposals President Bush will announce in his State of the Union message could in­clude an increase of as much as $500 per child in families' tax exemptions as well as other tax breaks to help Americans buy health insurance, officials said Thursday. 
Bush's plan, still undergoing fine-tuning, will also offer first­time home buyers a tax credit that will probably be about $5,000, according to one offi­cial. 
The president, whose ap­proval ratings have been sink­ing as the economy slides, has promised to come up with a plan "to get this country back to work again." He is expected to lay out main elements in his speech on Jan. 28 and his pro­posed federal budget the next day. 
The package is expected to include provisions to allow savers to roll Individual Re­tirement Accounts into family savings accounts that could be used for specific purposes, said the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Cur­rently taxpayers cannot use the funds they put in their IRAs without a penalty until the age of 59. 
The administration is also planning cuts in Medicare spending, but one official said they would not target benefi­ciaries. Instead, budget savings would come from attacking abuse and high charges by doc­tors and hospitals. 
Bush's press secretary, Marlin Fitzwater, also said Thursday that the president's budget proposals will entail "transferring savings from de­fense to deal with various aspects of domestic programs." 
"It certainly will reflect a shift of resources from defense to civilian needs," Fitzwater said. The government anticipates billions of dollars in Pentagon savings as a result of cuts in the military and the changing needs of U.S. defense in the post Cold War era. 
Fitzwater, however, declined to talk about specifics. 
On Capitol Hill, meanwhile, Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell called for cutting $100 billion from the Pentagon bud­get and putting aside deficit constraints to heal the ailing economy. 
"The Cold War is over. It's time to take down the artificial budget walls which prevent us from shifting our priorities from abroad to here at home," Mitchell, D-Maine, said in a speech at the National Press Club. 
He and other Democrats said they expected Bush to embrace many of the ideas they have been pushing. "We've steadily made the case for them, and now it's clear that the American people agree with us," Mitchell said. 
Among the proposals being weighed by Bush and his advis­ers is an income-tax exemption 

Applications Are Now Available at the Center for Social Concerns 
Deadline: Februazy 7 
Eight weeks of service work $1400.00 Scholarship 
Information night-January 28th at Center for Social Concerns 
increase of about $500 per child to give families more money to spend. Withholding schedules could then be ad­justed, encouraging purchases that would help get the econ­omy moving again. Without any change, the personal exemption for 1992 would be $2,300 a person. 
Bush again will call for a cut in the capital gains tax, with a top marginal rate of 19.6 per­cent expected on assets held three years, down from the current 28 percent, an official said. That change is designed to encourage investment. 
Fitzwater on Thursday char­acterized Bush's plan as one that will have "a dramatic eco­nomic growth plan in it, in the sense of dealing with the short­term and long-term needs of this country ... a plan that he will take to the Congress and will fight for it as long as nec­essary to get it passed." 
A key component of Bush's plan is expected to be a way to help the uninsured afford medi­cal coverage. 
Under a plan outlined by offi­cials Thursday, low-income Americans could get a tax credit to buy health insurance, with the poorest people getting $3,000 and those somewhat above the poverty level entitled to a smaller credit on a phased scale. 
Middle-income earners, those making up to $60,000, could deduct the purchase of up to $3,000 in health insurance. 

Friday, January 17,1992 

Economy keeps inflation low 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Ameri­cans in 1991 enjoyed the sec­ond-lowest inflation in 24 years, a beneficial byproduct of the stagnant economy and the end of the Persian Gulf War. 
Consumer prices rose 0.3 percent in December and 3.1 percent for the year, the Labor Department said Thursday. 
Two-thirds of the improve­ment over 1990's 6.1 percent rate came from a 7.4 percent drop in energy prices. 
The cost of gasoline and fuel oil had skyrocketed in 1990 when Iraq invaded Kuwait and then fell after Saudi Arabia in­creased its production to com­pensate. 
"Saudi Arabia has been say­ing 'Thank you' to George Bush," said economist Donald Ratajczak of Georgia State University. 
Food and beverage prices, held back by a sharp drop in meat costs, rose a modest 2.5 percent last year, the smallest increase since 1976. 
But even excluding the volatile food and energy sec­tors, inflation still declined. The so-called core rate was 4.4 per­cent in 1991, down from 5.2 percent in 1990. 
The 1991 inflation rate for all consumer items was the best since 1986 when prices rose 1.1 percent and the second lowest since 1967. 
"We have some problem ar­eas like health care and college tuition, but if you take that out, 
+American Red Cross 
What? Stefanie Jensen still ateenager? 
Happy 191111 
Love, Mom and Dad 

Source: U.S. Dept. of Labor AP 
you're really talking about a 
minuscule amount of inflation," 
said economist Lawrence 
Chimerine, senior adviser to 
DRI-McGraw Hill, a consulting 
firm in Lexington, Mass. 
With most analysts expecting 

only a weak economic recovery 
this year, the prospect is good 
for only moderate inflation, 
between 3 percent and 3.5 per­
cent. 
During last year's economic 

stall, consumers were reluctant 
to borrow and spend. That's 
forced retailers to hold the lid 
on prices or watch already 
lackluster sales erode. 

Meanwhile, rising unemploy­ment has kept wages -and thus the price of services ­from advancing as strongly as 1990. 
At the White House, spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the administration was "especially encouraged by the sharp deceleration in price in­creases." But, he acknowl­edged, "Obviously the unfortu­nate side of it is a good deal of that is because of the economic slowdown." 
Fitzwater said the adminis­tration would welcome lower interest rates to stimulate the economy, but most economists think the Federal Reserve, fol­lowing a big rate cut just before Christmas, will not reduce rates much further. 
"If something terrible hap­pens . . . they might come down another notch or two," said economist David Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston & Co. But "I think essentially we are virtu­ally at the end of the easing" in monetary policy. 
Separately, the Labor De­partment said first-time claims for unemployment insurance fell to 403,000 for the week ending Jan. 4, down from 452,000 the previous week. 
Analysts cautioned against reading too much into weekly fluctuations in the highly volatile claims number. Because it was a holiday week, laid-off workers had one less day than usual to me claims. 
Baker asks Cuba to show mercy 
MEXICO CITY (AP) -James Baker III, the U.S. secretary of state, urged Cuba on Thursday to show mercy to two Miami residents condemned to death for attempted terrorism. He denied U.S. involvement in the case. 
Baker's appeal came only hours after the supreme court of the communist island state upheld the death penalties of two men but commuted that of a third to 30 years in prison. 
The decision followed a dra­matic televised hearing in which the convicted men, pleading for their lives, implicated one of Cuba's most important dissidents, Gustavo Arcos, who was immediately arrested. 
Cuba has long attempted to tag human rights activists as CIA agents. 
.. 
Du~==========================================~uD
F F 

Applications are now being accepted for the position of 



Editor-in-Chief 1992-93 
Anyone interested in applying should submit a resume and a personal statement not exceeding five pages to Kelley Tuthill by 5 p.m., Friday, January 24, 1992. 
Further information is available from Kelley Tuthill at The Observer, 239-7471. 
~rr========================================================~~
Du uD 
page 7 


The Observer/Pat McHugh 

Urban Plunge reflections 
Sue Cunningham, coordinator of the Urban plunge program, col­lects papers from the 363 ND/SMC students who participated in the program. Each student spent 48 hours in an inner city setting. 
"These three men were not ­and the Cuban government knows this -in any way con­nected with the United States," Baker told reporters in Mexico. 
"They have not accomplished anything in terms of injury and we have asked that the gov­ernment of Cuba show mercy in the case." 
The 31-member Council of State headed by Cuban Presi­dent Fidel Castro has the power to save the two men from the firing squad. 
Cuban Foreign Minister Isidro Malmierca told reporters the death penalty "is what those criminals deserve" and "there is a popular clamor" for it. 
"The Cuban population is demanding a severe penalty, the most severe punishment for these criminals," Malmierca told reporters in Mexico City, where he was attending the signing of Salvadoran peace accords. 
Oscar Arias, the former Costa Rican president and 1988 Nobel Peace Prize winner, appealed to Castro to spare the lives of the men. 
"It seems to be an anachro­nism to take the life one some­one just because of his ideas. I think that Commander Fidel Castro is still back in 1959, and he has lost all notion of time," Arias said, referring to the year Castro seized power in Cuba. 
The Czechoslovak Foreign Ministry and Nicaraguan Presi­dent Violeta Chamorro also is­sued appeals for Cuba to spare the lives of the three men, who were arrested Dec. 29 as they landed on the island carrying a load of arms. 
Viewpoint 
f?age 8 Friday, January 17, 1992 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ....•. Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Edltor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager .......• Alissa Murphy Sports Editor .......•.•••.•. David Dieteman Production Manager .•.......•.. Jay Colucci Accent Edltor ..........•..•..•... John O'Brien Systems Manager .•.•............ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ...••...... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ................••.•. Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...........• Emily Willett Controller ....••...•.•........• Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

Dear Editor: 

I am writing this letter to commend you all on a very ex­citing Sugar Bowl Celebration! 
My husband and I own Dante's Cafe, on St. Peter Street, and Ristorante Carmelo, on Decatur Street in New Orleans. During the week of the Sugar Bowl, we had the pleasure of serving many of you. I have to say, of all the visitors we have in New Orleans, this year's Sugar Bowl crowd was the best! Not only was the game itself the most exciting anyone can remember, but the fans displayed a wonderful sense of spirit, sportsmanship, and a refreshing propensity for fun! I know I am not alone in this, the City itself appreciated such a successful" party. 
Thank you! And I wish you all the very best in 1992! Y'all come back now, y'hear? 
Karen Chirico New Orleans Jan. 7,1992 

Support group available for victims of sex offenses 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing to inform the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community about an opportu­nity that will be available this semester. A support group for students who are survivors of rape will be offered free of charge by Madison Center's Sex Offense Services (SOS), the community rape crisis center. The group will begin in late January or early February, and women can join at any time during the semester. 
Co-facilitated by trained stu­dent SOS advocates, it will be open to all students from Notre 
DOONESBURY 
Dall) and Saint Mary's. The gro...p will meet on campus and will be completely confidential. 
If you would like more infor­mation and/or would like to be­come part of this group, please call the SOS office at 234-0061 X231. One of the facilitators will return your call to answer any questions you may have or to arrange a time for a pre­group interview. 
Missy Sherman Co-Chair of CARE (Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination) Jan.15,1992 


What happened to traditional values? 
Dear Editor: 
Ten years ago condoms and contraceptives were almost never mentioned in the news media: today they are being given out to high school stu­dents. 
Sex itself was never referred to either, let alone shown on television. It's now a common topic in the news and an every­day feature on television shows along with the increasing use of profanity naturally. 
Teenage pregnancies and di­vorces are becoming alarmingly numerous. More and more of our large cities are being left to the gangs and criminals. The cable and video industries have almost completely undermined the motion picture ratings sys­tem. Single-parent families are growing and it seems that many of our schools are just holding pens rather than places to train our future work force. 
What is the root cause of all this social decay? It is not a lack of money or support for welfare programs. The deterio­ration of our inner cities and of society in general is the result of a severe decline in the morals and values of America. 
The very foundations upon which our society is based are beginning to crack. America was created on a strong sense of family and community and deep-standing religious convic­tions, a powerful knowledge of right and wrong and a belief in hard work. 
Traditional family values are not routinely ridiculed and at­tacked and the consequent drop in their perceived importance is taking society down with it. It was these values which made America a great power and only they will keep it one. 
So what went wrong? What has led to this precipitous un­ravelling of the basics of America's society? In the 1950's America was at the pin­nacle of the world, steeped in religious and community val­ues. It was a moral America. You were able to walk the streets at night, there was no drug problem, schools were productive institutions and shows like My Three Sons and Leave it to Beaver provided the epitome of American life. 
Then came the election of JFK and the 1960's. The Civil Rights and Anti-Vietnam movements attacked the two moral bulwarks of our society, the government and the church, as their success hinged upon al­tering the status quo. 
Unfortunately, the triumph of these movements had the effect of sowing public mistrust of both of these institutions which naturally weakened support for their policies of traditional morals and values. 
The public chaos, divisiveness, and violence fostered by the movements of the 60's and 70's dealt a death blow to the moral America, perhaps irrevocably. The 1960's are today glorified as a time of freedom, liberation and progress, but, on the con­trary, the 1960's actually ruined America. 
Hopefully it is not too late to save our civilization. A con­certed campaign, particularly in schools, must now be waged to inform people about the reality of the situation and to get them to change. 
A combined effort by the gov­ernment, church, and American people must act now to restore traditional American morals and values which in itself should repair many of our so­cial ills and will put in position to be a powerful, united country heading into the next century. 
Only decisive, coordinated ac­tivity can avert what would be one of the greatest calamities since the fall of the Roman Empire. 
Whatever happened to Mom, baseball and apple pie? Where have you gone Joe DiMaggio? 
Jeffrey O'Donnell Grace Hall Jan.10,1992 

PRE6NANT"? 

UH-HUH
PRteNANT? 

YOU HAPPY? 
\ 
HAPPY? HOW (]]()WI NOT Bt5!fAPPY? 7HIS IS 
5PIJCTACUIAR. N/3WS! 
I 

Y&5, tu/3 I?I1?. 8UT. .. HOIAJ? enNt6HT/.A5T tu/3 I?II?N'T ~lA/& HAI?A 
!3VEN ... 8/TWMUCH 70 I?RJNI<., ANI? Ya.JI 6(J{£/£KY. 50/)//) I, A51T TURNS OiJT. I 
I... I {)()N'T REMt:M813R. 
\_'\\ 

'Anyone who goes to a psychiatrist should have his head examined.' 
Sam Goldwyn 
Don't be a type 'B' ... submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND. IN 46556 


----------~-----~-----­
Viewpoint
Friday, January 17, 1992 page 9 
Castro not the only one to blame for Cuba's woes 
Andrew Cutrofello 
Subterranean Homesick Politics 
When Maria and her father get to arguing about Fidel Cas­tro and Cuba, I usually try to stay out of it, although generally (as she knows) I completely agree with Maria. I happened to be visiting with her and her family the evening it was re­ported on the news that 34 Cuban citizens had fled their country by helicopter to come to the land of "Buy one, get one free." 
To hear him whooping it up, you'd think that Carlos, Maria's dad, had just won the lottery. 
"Aha, you see, you see!" Car­los shouted triumphantly at his daughter, as he insisted on pouring us all a celebratory glass of champagne. "They have escaped from a dictator, from an evil man! Do you think they would have risked their lives and the lives of their chil­dren, unless Cuba was being held hostage by that no-good Communist?" 
Maria sighed. Evidently she didn't want to get into one of their big arguments, so she just said, "I'm happy for those peo­ple too, papa." She took a sip of her champagne. 
Carlos was flicking the chan­nels from news program to news program to catch as much coverage of the story as possible. On one of the local Spanish-language channels they were interviewing the guy who had piloted the risky flight. I don't speak Spanish, but it was clear that the Miami anchorman could barely contain his glee any better than Carlos. 
"Maria, these brave people have made a complete fool out of Fidel Castro," Carlos exulted, as he poured himself a second glass of champagne. "What this shows,"-he pointed his finger admonishingly at her-"lt shows that Communism is a failure everywhere! It shows that America is the greatest country in the world! And maybe it shows that President George Bush that he should send troops into Cuba like he did into Kuwait, and overthrow this traitor to the Cuban people!" 
Maria put down her glass. 
"You know, papa, if you'd open your eyes and stop believing everything they tell you on TV, you'd know that things are bad in Cuba mainly because the United States of America has orchestrated an embargo against the Cuban people for the last 30 years." "How can you say that, Maria?" Carlos asked in a shocked tone, as if they hadn't been having this same argument for the last ten years. 
"Papa, look at the facts. Fidel Castro has raised the standard of living of the Cuban people. He has modernized the country. And all the hardships Cuba is going through now can be traced to two things: the U. S. 
older peasants who remember what things were like under Batista." 
"Well, why don't you ask me? In case you don't remember, your mother and I had to leave the country when Castro came to power." 
"We were one of the wealthi­est families, and anyway you and mama weren't forced to leave. Look what Castro has accomplished. He liberated Cuba not only from a ruthless dictator, but also from the con­trol of an imperialist country that was sucking the lifeblood out of the country. Yes, the United States of America." 
"I don't want to talk about this country, I want to talk about Cuba, about a free Cuba. About free trade and free elections. Do you deny that Castro is an 
"You always say free trade and free elections in the same breath, as though they were the same thing. Anyway, I agree that there should be free elec­tions in Cuba. I also happen to think that President Castro wants there to be elections one day too." 
"So what is the man waiting for?" Carlos through up his hands. 
"He's waiting for a time when Cuba will not be in a state of emergency. Cuba is at war. The United States government has waged a 30-year war of at­trition against the Cuban peo­ple. No wonder times are hard over there! And why should the Cuban people support any of the CIA's coup attempts? They would only install a puppet government that would cater to American corporate interests." 
"Castro's Cuba is Communist!" Carlos thundered, as if we had not known. "Cuba should be democratic and capitalist!" 
"Castro's socialism has its share of problems, I admit. But his socialism provides people with health care and doesn't let people go homeless. Even if it is doomed to failure in this new world order, Cuban socialism will stand out as one of the nobler social experiments of this century." 
"But you admit that the man's a dictator!" "Yes, I admit that. But there 
from the worst that is imaginable." 
"So now my daughter doesn't believe in democracy! What did they teach you in college, Maria?" Carlos asked in a dis­gusted tone. The TV was now running a piece about how unemployment in the US was at its highest in six years. Carlos shut it off. 
"I do believe in democracy. But I'm not so naive to think that just because a country holds free elections that it's au­tomatically democratic. You have to look at whose interests the leaders of a country serve to tell if it's democratic or not. Castro has consistently fought for the Cuban people, not against them." 
"You can't tell me that Fidel Castro serves the interests of the Cuban people. If he did, why would these good people risk their lives trying to leave their country?" 
Maria didn't answer. She didn't want to fight her father. Usually, she just let him get the last word in. 
"I'll tell you one thing," was his last word, "you'll never see this country supporting a Communist anywhere in the world!" 
Except, I guess, for Haiti. 
Andrew Cutrofello is a profes­sor in philosophy at Saint Mary's College. His columns appear every other Friday. 


Dear Editor: 
I make no claim to be a model environmentally­conscious individual. Rather, I admit that I am a wasteful member of our very wasteful society. However, since coming to Notre Dame, thanks in large part to the education efforts of the Recyclin' Irish, I have learned to be far more aware of the impact of the habits of myself and of others on our fragile environment. Along with this awareness have come attempts to modify my behavior to become less environmentally destructive, and a more critical eye toward the wasteful habits of those around me. 
What prompted me to write this letter was a recent visit to the dining hall. As I was putting up my tray, I could not avoid noticing an orange on someone else's used tray. An orange! This natural dessert comes pre-wrapped in a protective skin, making it ideal for storage until consumption at a later time. Yet, someone felt so encumbered by his/her backpack as to decide to leave behind that untouched piece of fruit. Worse, this orange was not and is not an isolated example of waste. I constantly notice oranges, apples, and bananas riding the conveyor belts to their impending doom. They usually have not been discarded because of bad flavor, for their skins and peels seldom display evidence of having been broken by human hands or teeth. Rather, they are usually whole, untouched, nearly flawless fruits. 
Unfortunately, this is just the tip of the iceberg. On those same aforementioned trays are piled mounds of other food. Granted, we do not always like each dish we try at the dining hall, but is it necessary to waste so much? Outside of the dining hall is no better. Every dorm is conve­niently equipped with receptacles for old newspapers, bottles, and cans. It thrills me to see how well utilized the recycling receptacles are. Yet, when I enter my friends' room around the corner from the bins and see newspapers and soda cans in their wastebasket, can I help but feel that apathy reigns at Notre Dame? I like to think that such a comment is exaggerated and untrue, but what my eyes tell me tends to support it, at least to an extent. 
Now, let me offer some very simple advice to those members of our community who do not understand that personal effort is required if we hope to preserve our beautiful planet for our posterity to inhabit and enjoy: -When you ask for food at the dining hall, ask for a small portion if you are tasting a dish with which you are unfamiliar (and of which you may be afraid!). Do likewise when you are not especially hungry. Due to our constant greediness, the dining hall workers have learned that it behooves them to distribute large portions of food in order to avoid serving the same person more than once. I 
often, at the risk of sounding rude or demanding, say, "No, thank you, only half that much, please," when a server tries to give me a full pound of lunch meat on my sandwich or a plate full of each of three dishes I want to try. Then, if I really cannot bear to eat something, I need not 
throw away an entire plate full of it. 
-Before you leave the dining hall, grab the fruit off your tray! Why would anyone throw away a piece of fruit which he/she chose to take in the first place? Also, take any leftover clean napkins; otherwise, they just become landfill. 
-Walk the 10 or 20 or 100 meters to the nearest recycling bin and place your used newspapers, cans, and bottles in their appropriate bins. Hopefully, many of the communities in which we will live after graduation will tax us for doing otherwise; some communities already do so. 
-Finally, reuse whatever you can. Why dispose of a plastic sandwich bag when it is still in fme condition for use the next time you desire to keep some­thing fresh? The same applies to baggie ties, paperclips, rubber bands, manilla envelopes, and much more. Use your imagination. 
I do not believe that my efforts alone will save the earth. I do, however, feel that my efforts, in conjunction with yours, your friends', and your families', will indeed contribute greatly to reversing our society's frightening trend toward global destruction. I am not personally a member of the Recyclin' Irish, but that in no way relieves me of my moral duty to monitor my consumption of the world's resources. Likewise, no one else is free of responsibility. 
So the next time your friend leaves an orange on his/her tray, pick up the orange and hand it to your friend. It's the least you can do. 
Brad Fuller Keenan Hall Dec. 16, 1991 



JANUARY 17-19 


Weektdd.ealeDdiF 
1-, ..·· ·­
.·. 


I.O.U.. CitJb SRtn.,.'s, 10 p;n. 8W. ·SnNkers, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS 

ObMrvatlon of the GuH War: VIdeo presentation, Center for Social Concerns ~lon of the Gulf War: Mus, Sacred Heart Church, 5:15 p.m. 
sa ay 

MUSIC Bob, Sneakers, 1 0 p.m. I.O.U., Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS 

Christian Rocker Margaret Becker, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, 8 p.m. 
~
suv&4Y 
EVENTS 

Recital: Featuring Mezzo-Soprano Joyce Farwell and Pianist Lee Thompson, Little Theatre, Saint Mary's, 
2:30p.m. 


FRIDAY "lly Own Privata Idaho," Annenburgh Auditorium, 7 & 9:30p.m. Travel Adventure Film SeriH: ''Tall Ship on"the Spanish Main," O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, 8p.m. 
SATURDAY ....,Own Privata Idaho," Annenburgh Auditorium, 7 & 9:30p.m. 
One year alte 
Experts discuss effects of Des1 
By KEVIN SULLIVAN AND BEVIN KOVALIK Accent Writers 
T 
he Gulf War and its aftermath were the subjects last night at the Hesburgh Library Auditorium where two experts, Notre Dame anthropology professor and Mid-East expert Patrick Gaffney, and Robert Oliver, and associate director at the Midwestern Center for Military Counseling discussed the issues 
raised  by  the  one-year  
anniversary  of  the  U.S.  
invasion of Iraq.  

Gaffney spoke to the crowd about the political and social results of Desert Storm. He pointed to three nations whose political leverage has improved following the conflict. Turkey's turn of attention from the European stage to that of the East has helped them become a force in the region. 
Ground war: 
lroqi units with 75% of strength remolni"!r ­
step by step 

OCCUPVING FORCE: 545,000 Iraqis in Kuwait 
IRAQ BUILDUP: U.S. positions the 101st and 82nd Ai divisions, 24th Mechanized Infantry and 3rd Calvary behind Saudi Arabian task force. 
GROUND FORCES BLUFF: Allied forces are align opposite Iraqi positions in Kuwait so that it they plan to attack the Iraqi positions direct The Iraqis build an extensive barrier on the and along the east coast of Kuwait. 
Feb. 23, 1991: Before the stor: 
The allied strategy in the war relied on two fei 
Also Iraq, until recently a "pariah" in the Mid East has improved their position by im­proving relations with the country that has by far gained the most power after the Gulf War, the United States. The U.S., who before the war had to arm other Mid Eastern nations, like Iraq, to help protect their interests in the region, have now established a military presence in the desert that may surpass even that of Israel. 
Gaffney also dispelled any hopes that the U.S. invasion has weakened Saddam Hussein's power in Iraq. According to Gaffney, "Hussein is as strong as he has ever been." Hussein has never needed popularity to maintain his hold over the Iraqi people, says Gaffney. Further, the Iraqi's blame the West, not their despot for the devastation they have undergone. Continuing internal conflicts between the Kurds, Sunis, and Shiites also make Iraq's future 
Feb. 23, 1991 
look grave. "If Iraq is to main a unified state the Ku Shiites, and the Sunis will J to come together," says GaO 
Another cause of the con1 ing miseries of the popula; said Gaffney, is the "bomb -die later" strategy empl1 by the U.S. during the war. bombing such critical faci) as electrical and water t1 ment plants, the U.S. inva has helped send the populi into a downward spira poverty, malnutrition death. 
Gaffney quoted figure 100,000 Iraqi military del during the invasion, and 80,000 civilian deaths in year that has followed. 1 100,000 more Iraqi child near deaths of malnutrit Gaffney showed that the c1 alties of the Gulf War are 1 tinuing to mount. 
Robert Oliver follo1 Gaffney and related a Ill personal story. Oliver, a for 
IRAN 
0 A threatened amphibious assault on the KU\II'ai'lt-i-------------------~--__:_______ coast. Purpose: Force the Iraqis to deploy their 'J'-L"""-------=-....,--,.--,"""";:c----~--r-------, along the coast-which they did. 8 A last-minute shift of vast numbers of allied 
soldiers to the west, allowing them to enter 
of the dug-in Iraqi forces. The Iraqis were u 
of this movement because their air force had 
put out of action. 

Feb. 24: The at tack begins 
4:00 A.M., LOCAL TIME: 

0 1st and 2nd Marine Divisions launch attacks through the barrier system, accompanied by the 
S. 

Army Tiger Brigade of the 2nd Armored Division. 8 French 6th Armored Division, accompanied by U.S. units, launches an overland atlack to the As Salman airfield. 
@ Two Saudi task forces breach the Iraqi defenses and continue attacking up the east coas B:OO A.M., LOCAL TIME: 
e 101 st Airborne launches an assault deep into~.-------~­enemy territory to establish a forward operati '"l:iuuR~u. AFTERNOON: @ Diversionary Pan-Arab and Saudi attacks. ~ U.S. 24th Mechanized Division crosses the 
f) U.S. Vllth Corps, 1st and 3rd Armored Divisio and 2nd Armored Cavalry Division cross the bord 
@ U.S. I st Infantry Division and British 1st Arm 
Division cross the border. MEANWHILE: Special Forces had been sent deep i enemy territory to observe. 
0 Saudis continue up the eastern flank. 
8 Saudi and Arab forces turn toward Kuwait Ci 
@ British unit continues to attack. 
e U.S. VII Corps sweeps eastward toward 
the Republican Guard. @ 24th Infantry Division moves into the Tigri-11""'!1""'1-~-~-.­and Euphrates valley and blocks the only escape route for retreating Iraqi units. ~ The French set up a flanking position to Iraqi forces from entering from the west. 
Feb. 27: Cl aiming Kuwait 
0 XVIII Airborne Corps forms solid wall aero! north, attacking due east. 8 VII Corps also attacks due east. @ Arab forces from both the west and the eas in on Kuwait City. e 1st Marine Division continues to hold International Airport. @ The 2nd Morine Division blocks all exits from Kuwait City. 
Color:The Observer/Brandon Regen AP/Korl Tote 

-----1 
''I don't think it is a question of whether it was a success or a failure, what I think the problem is that we didn't get anything accomplished. We still find ourselves in a poor economic situation and also most of our men who were lost were not lost in the war but were lost to friendly fire. What could we have accomplished if we come back with less than wnat we entered with? So we "saved the people." We really didn't save them; we didn't hell? them. What positive things happened m that country to show that the war did some good? I don't see any." 
"I believe it was a success be­cause someone had to show their force in the area and the U.S. was the country to do it because it is the most powerful nation in the world . It could show the most force and be the most convincing in the Middle East." 
"I consider the war to be a failure because of all the human suffering. It didn't have all the economic success that Bush was expecting it to have, individuals lost tneir lives, plus the fact that we knew Saddam Hussein was a problem before this occurred so this just added more suffering to the Iraqi people who didn't want Saddam anyway. Add the fact that our own war machine was killing individuals from this country who were serving 
Professor Regan 

under good and positive motives. 
Romance Languages 

Also, we should be paying more for gasoline anyway." 
The Observer 
the Gulf War 

t Storm at home and abroad 
Do you consider the Gulf War to be a success or a failure and why? 
Information Compiled By Matt Mobs Photos By Sean Farnan 


"I don't consider any war a success. The fact that you go to war is a failure in itself, that you Ii.ad to go to battle to do anything instead of being able to compromise or make peace. When you are considered to be in a J?OSition where people trust your decisiOn and you turn and say that the onl7 way to solve things is by a show o force, I consider that to be a failure right there because you aren't at the point where you can intellectually solve things by thinking them out and talking about them." 
"It was a success in military terms. In human terms you will always wonder if there was a way to avoid it. I'm not sure what it is." 
Professor Janet Fisher­McPeak 
"I can't consider it a total success for a couple of reasons. The Iraqis citizenry is a total mess, the infrastructure is de­stroyed , and I don't think that Saddam Hussein and his mili­tary machine is properly dis­mantled." 

Chris Hoepfinger Senior 

Air National Guardsmen, used to spend his weekends in an electronics van receiving and relaying messages to American fighter pilots. Slowly but surely he began to have doubts about his role in the military. "At first I thought the idea of serving my country was a good thing, then I realized I was indirectly putting my finger on the trig­ger," says Oliver. 
These doubts were hammered home by the repetitive use of words like "kill" and "destroy" in the messages he was sending along. Oliver condemned the Gulf War by saying, "The basic purpose of the military is to prepare for war and wage war. War means death, and lives are wasted for political ends of a feud." 
Ironically, it was the onset of the War with Iraq that helped Oliver finally leave the Guard. He said that his continued out­spokenness while still in uni­form as President Bush's dead­line approached helped him to get his discharge in a hurry. 

Oliver then took a job with the Midwestern Center for Military Counseling, a non­profit organization which offers help for those in the military or those who are thinking of joining. During the invasion, said Oliver, he was swamped with phone calls of those con­cerned about being drafted or going to fight. This helped fuel his growing dislike of the U.S. "war machine" and war in gen­eral. "War turns people into heartless barbarians," Oliver said. 
After Gaffney and Oliver spoke to the crowd a more in­formal discussion arose com­bining the social/political reali­ties talked of by Gaffney with the personal feelings of war and the military voiced by Oliver. Suspicions were raised against U.S. intelligence con­cerning the Iraqi attack of Kuwait as well as the atrocities committed by Americans in Iraq. 
The discussion leaned to­wards Oliver's views. The lack of anti-war protests in the U.S. after the invasion of Iraq was questioned Military propa­ganda was held largely to blame for this "It's time to back our boys" attitude that challenged any dissenters dur­ing Desert Storm. This trend towards ~nti-protest feeling disturbed Oliver especially. 
"Last year took us by sur­prise, but now we can be more pro-active rather than reac­tive," said Oliver, "Now we can be prepared for, God forbid, the next time." 
The lack of American concern for the Iraqi population they had helped to devastate was discussed. Perhaps the most poignant comment on this apa­thy was the great number of empty seats at the auditorium last night. 
~otre Dame observes IVar's first anniversary 
•LIBBY COSTELLO :ent writer 
r 
he observance of the first anniversary of the Persian Gulf War continues at Notre Dame today. Two television programs in the Center for Social Concerns will be shown continuously throughout the day to nember the war. There will also be a Mass for LCe in Sacred Heart Church at 5:15p.m. he purpose of the events is to "call awareness that ny people suffered from the choices made a year 1," according to Father Thomas McDermott, ~ctor of special projects for Notre Dame's campus tistry office. he videos to be shown at the CSC include the PBS 1ntline television programs "The War We Left lind" and "Report From Iraq." "The War We Left lind" is a documentary made by an independent up who travelled to Iraq in order to investigate the · and to discover what actually happened to Iraqi Uans. They achieved this end by interviewing a nber of civilians in Iraqi hospitals. "Report From Iraq" was produced by a Harvard Medical School team which toured the war torn country last April. 
According to Catholic Relief Services, more than seven thousand Iraqi children will die next year be­cause of poor sanitation. 
These types of statistics are "quite devastating," says David Cortright, visiting faculty fellow at the Kroc Institute and faculty advisor of the World Peace Action Group. 
To commemorate those killed in the war and as a result of the war, there will be mass this evening at Sacred Heart Church presided over by McDermott. 
"The purpose of the Mass is to remember that the nameless tens of thousands buried in the sand were brothers and sisters of ours," McDermott said. He also stated that it seemed important to clarify that one cannot look upon a victory in Iraq with satisfaction. 
At a Catholic university it is important to teach and preach that the Lord loves everyone, McDermott added. 
This observance of the Gulf war anniversary is sponsored by the World Peace Action Group and the Office of Campus Ministry. 
page 12 The Observer Friday, January 17, 1992 
The church as the Holy Spirit's great masterpiece 
Father Robert Griffin 
In "The Bestiary," T.H. White writes on the way in which ele­phants copulate. Many have been curious about the logistics of pachyderms when they're making love, White says, since these creatures are so moun­tainous. One theory suggests that maybe elephants, growing passionate, dig a hole in the ground to accommodate the female, enabling the male to mount her from above. Another theory holds that maybe ele­phants mate in water: once the female is submerged, the ama­tory male can float over her. 
But as a matter of fact, says White, elephants copulate in the usual way, and as a matter of fact, they do it more gracefully than most. Apparently among elephants, "Their going hence, even as their coming hither" must be a private matter. 
I learned from the Tarzan movies I saw as a child how the great, gray beasts, at the end of their lives, amble off by themselves to the secret grave­yard where the elephants go to die, undisturbed by the white hunters greedy to plunder the burial ground for the ivory tusks bleaching in the sun. 
The poet John Donne de­scribes the elephant as Nature's great masterpiece, just as the Church is the Holy Spirit's great masterpiece which reproduces itself gracefully in every generation, though the mere voyeur might be pressed to say how. One hundred and fifty years ago, the Englishman Macaulay paid tribute to the longevity of the Roman Catholic Church in a way that seemed prophetic: "She (the Roman Catholic Church) may still exist in undiminished vigor when 


Everywhere you look, the Church tends to be an evil em­pire, suppressing human rights, enslaving women, exploiting the poor. The Vatican with its divine pretensions is a heavier millstone around mankind's neck than the Kremlin was, so why encourage the Church to prolong its existence? 
The Church has lumbered through history like a herd of rogue elephants on the ram­page, as you can tell from the damage caused by the Crusades and the Spanish Inquisition. Yet my faith tells me that much can be forgiven the Church which bears witness to the Gospel in­sights that begin with John 3: 
16: "For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son ... " Only in heaven will we understand what it means to say that since the Incarnation, "Grace is everywhere," and that sooner or later, everything turns to grace, even the dark­ness. For two thousand years the secular world has been the beneficiary of graces that it can't account for; and these have helped make the world into a kinder, gentler place. 
Yet it shouldn't surprise us when the Church, through which grace is mediated, seems narrow-minded and graceless; as a sanctuary for black sheep and stray goats which the Saviour has brought home to the fold, the Church on earth is far from saintly-Even when the Pope sounds godly, you can be sure in your heart that he's only a poor sinner saved by grace. Yet the Lord entrusted the Church with the Mass and the Eucharist on which the sun never sets, keeping Calvary alive and green in the memory of the Eternal Father, strong to save. 
The saints may be the crown­ing glory of the Catholic faith; but the Gospels say that Christ put the Church in business to save sinners. Sometimes, all you can see of the Church is the arrogance and stupidity of the souls that Christ died for. When you discover that priests are as flawed as the others, you could be tempted to become anti-cler­ical. You only punish yourself when you give up on the Church because you dislike the lads who seem to be running the show. 
The Church, needing minis­ters, doesn't always have the best and the brightest to choose from. Still, using the unworthy servants who present themselves, God manages to write straight with crooked lines, and here is the mystery with which faith begins. 
You can tell from the church­bashing that goes on here, Notre Dame continues to be a Catholic campus. Catholic alienation springs from a memory of the way the Church hurt you when you asked for a fish, and were given a stone, or when you hoped for mercy, and were shown the rule book. The doubting Thomases can show young Catholics the depth of their alienation from the Church, but they can't commu­nicate the anger that confirms them as dropouts. But Catholic nostalgia isn't a transferable 
feast, either. It may be as lovely and innocent as the memories 
of  the  Old  Vicarage  at  
Grantchester­ "Stands the  
church  clock  at  ten  to  

three?/And is there honey still for tea?"-yet Catholic nostalgia resists being passed on as a gift that accompanies the gift of Faith. 
Except for the four hundred, or the four thousand, who con­sider themselves above the fray, the students take turns, declar­ing themselves members of an oppressed minority group that is being harassed or neglected. In their search justice, they show us their wounds so that we can see how they're hurting. No man is an island; and when my brothers and sisters suffer, I share their pain. 
Still, as a bleeding-heart curmudgeon, I think we must face a moment of truth before the redress of grievances can begin. Sooner or later, every minority group member shoots himself or herself in the foot. The tendency is then to blame others for this self-inflicted wound, as though the guilt were communal. Instead of church­bashing, young Christians today seem to enjoy bashing one another in a way that's not fair. They're only playing a game that old-timers can't understand. I'm sure all the victims survive, but it does seem alarming when you read about it in the Observer. 
The Church, like the ele­phant, has the endurance of the long-distance runner. However, the elephant, like the hippo in 
T.S. Eliot's poem, is only flesh and blood, but the Church, as Eliot says is founded on a rock. 
Letters to a Lonely God 
some traveller from New Zealand shall, in the midst of a vast solitude, take his stand on a broken arch of London Bridge to sketch the ruins of St. Paul's." 
Macaulay couldn't have been on the reading list of my old Irish mother, who asked me be­fore her death a few years ago if the Catholic Church was on its way to becoming an endan­gered species. How could I save an eighty-seven year-old woman from wondering whether Christ's Church-which I led her back to when I became a priest-could be the Ught that failed? Priests are in deeper trouble today than they were seven years ago. Perhaps it was a blessing that she didn't live to see the priesthood facing so grave a crisis. Hearing about the many priests in trouble would have convinced her that the well has been poisoned Is the Catholic Church on its way to becoming an endangered species? 
Reading the papers, you could get the idea of avant-garde Catholics prepared to serve as their religion's next-of-kin, waiting to say Kaddish for Catholicism, as soon as it bites the dust after the death of the last Pope. In a tribe of ele­phants, these Catholics might explain, it's remembering the "how" of reproduction that's important. With the church the question about reproduction should be "why?" 


-<:: 
Friday, January 17, 1992 The Observer page 13 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 1 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All class~ieds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 


SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER The Rankin Educational Group is CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED VACATIONS! Monica Eigelberger is still a ho. And Pothead-
NOTICES seeking part-time student workers 89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50, Jamaica, Bahamas including she likes being fondled. Thank you for a wonderful weekend for a unique grad. school prep. 87 MERCEDES $100,65 airfare, great hotel, and much more in Chicago. I had a great time. I company. Many different postions MUSTANG $50. Choose from from only $599. Buy from the #1 love my ring; I'm so glad we're 
CUSTOMIZED WORD available. Flexible Hours/ Good thousands starting $25. FREE 24 name you trust for quality vacations. The Lizard King lives on! Down with "promised." Seriously, I love my PROCESSING salary. Please call 273-1866. Hour Recording Reveals Details FOUR SEASONS the Crustaceans! presents and I'll never forget last Reports/resumes/letters. 
801-379-2929 Copyright # 1-800-331-3136. weekend. I'm so glad you're back 271-161 B. 
1N11KJC in my life. I love you. $40,000NR! READ BOOKS and SEX SEX SEX -Rocky TV Scripts. Fill out simple DR. ENEMA MUST BE That or just an inviteALTERATIONS AND 
"like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun, ~YOUR LIFESTYLE Buy a METAL STOPPED!!! to 711 & 713 P.E.'s 
DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL 
relaxing at home, beach, vacations. loft bought in Aug $60 or BEST THE BALTIMORIC TORRENTS FAX MACS Fax your Mac 259·8684. 
Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 OFFR (I paid 1 00) Dan 232-0550 OF SPHINCTERAL SPEW AGE WELCOME BACK CHRISTINE documents for $1 page. Free Hour Recording 801-379-2925 WILL SUBSIDE. I SENSED HIS STRICK/RED LIGHT campus pick-up of your disk. Call Copyright #IN11 KEB MISTS IN TUTORIAL-TANGENT. DISTRICT party (1/17, 7-9pm). Michael at 237-1864.
TYPING AVAILABLE USAIR SB to Worcester MA male 287·4082. 
Mrch 7$129 Dan 232-0550 YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK ND BAND-Did you know that we ND/SMC STUDENTS TO LIVE! DO IT RIGHT! SPRING played the fight song 395 times this SEATS STILL AVAILABLE FOR 
LOST/FOUND 
BREAK IN JAMAICAICANCUN, 79 Subaru Great in snow! Runs year? $40 MARCH FOR LIFE TRIP TO FROM $429! INCLUDES HOTEL, strong, cheap insurance, WASHINGTON D.C. 1-22-92 FOUND: gold/brass earring AIR, TRANSFERS. good gas mileage, AM/FM ELSA X4030 JULIE X4842 
medium sized, hook goes through SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-cassette, CB, $700 Call Liza is an uncoordinated klutz who your earring hole type, hanging kind 7710. 258-1010 should have remained in the of tear drop shaped with a thing in reclining position. COUCH I HATE YOU ...... YES, THAT'S the middle (hard to describe) Found POTATO INJURIE&-WHAT A YOU!!I!!!I it in front of the library right before Actor needs photographer for b/w PERSONAL TRAGEDYIIIII 
break 
head shots. 2354 CALL 288-9421 if this sounds It was just after Christmas, 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
familiar 49 days until Cancun. and all through the nation, 
Good rates. Save Money. Call me
FOR RENT the team was restless,
for a quote 9:30-6:00, 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW'
for the huge celebration. 

289-1993. Office near campus.
LOST: GOLD & SILVER 500 LIRA ADOPTION James and Red gave it a start, 
DAYTONA BEACH "om SfQ4
5 artd 7 NIGHTS 

COIN PENDANT BEFORE BREAK. HOUSE FOR RENT. $150/MO. Happy, loving couple wishes to ACDC did some James Brown, NOT WORTH MUCH BUT I WILL raise your white newborn with Along
WALK TO CAMPUS. CALL PAUL 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ··~ lf28 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

287-2159. Monica Eigelberger is still a ho, but 
PAY$ TO GET IT BACK. 283-3987. warmth and love. Can provide with many trips to the Lucky dog 
STEAMBOAT "om Sf22
only with Keenan guys. 
2, 5 AND 7 NIGHTS

financial security and education. cart, 
6 OR 7 BEDROOM HOME NEAR Medical/legal expenses paid. And spandy's head 
PANAMA CITY BEACH ..~ lf22 
7 NIGHTS

CAMPUS.SECURITY SYSTEM.FOR FALL 1992.272-A SUMMER JOB YOU'LL LOVE I 
WANTED 
Please answer our prayers by (where shaving cream was found.) 
FORT LAUDERDALE "~· IIJ6

calling Maureen & Jim. Call 1-800-Robo was the claim 
7 NIGHTS 
6306 

456-2656. on the street of liquor and lust, 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND •.,mlff9 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS

$350.00/DAY PROCESSING but its all fun and games 
Coed Massachusetts camp, 3 hrs. 
MUSTANG ISLAND I ....,1f28

PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL TWO FURNISHED HOMES NEAR till you tear an esophagus. 
YOU. NO EXPERIENCE CAMPUS ... SECURITY SYSTEM ... Boston/NY City. Super kids, great 
PORT ARANSAS
Bobby T. Dickinson and Goose 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. WASHER & DRYER... 4 food, friendly atmosphere. 100+ 
Rosemann are missed madly by BEDROOMS ... 10 MO. LEASE... 4 staff: tennis, lifeguard, WSI, 
tlth Annual

hose-wearing, cello-playing, Spring Break to Florida Beaches OR 5 STUDENTS ... DEPOSIT arts/crafts, all land/water sports, 
Celebration!

deeper-psychological types like mo. We set hats on fire, 
TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS

Energetic Promoter needed. Earn REQUIRED... 259-7801 OR 255-fitness, gymnastics, piano/play for table danced for a thrill, FREE trips and CASH. Call CMI at 5852 FOR MORE INFO! shows, drama, judo, dance, archery, brawled with Munchkin and Hire, 
1·800·321·5911 

photography, computers, rocketry, ~
1-800-423-5264. hey nit and met the legend, Wild Bill. 
~

guitar, radio, video, yearbook, ~
And when sugar was won, 
TEACHERS NEEDED newspaper, wilderness, woodwork, 
FOR SALE and the trip almost through, 
RN, more!

The Rankin Educational Group is STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA we totalled a car,6/20-8/22. Call/write CAMP 
looking for highly qualified Info on semester, year, graduate, and bring my hospital count to 2. -------------­
Favorite 8 Football Recipes of a EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd., 
instructors for air LSAT, GMAT, summer and internship programs in So as we write the last chapter 
Notre Dame Cook. $3. Eastchester, NY 10707. 
GRE. and MCAT prep courses. Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and in the year 91, 
M.Sisk, 2741 S. 3rd, Niles, Ml 800/955-CAMP.
Part time Wor\<./Fiexible hours/Good Melbourne. Programs start at put a fork in this trip, 
USFA
49120.
salary. Please call 273-1866. $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. it most certainly is done. 
continued from page 20 
The sabre team will also be
It's official! Walsh returns to Stanford 
facing stiff competition but they are expected to make a run atplay a key role on their player team that finished its 1991 sea­possible. 
the gold medal. The Irish will
STANFORD, Calif. (AP) -Bill personnel staff. son with an 8-4 record after Athletic Director Ted Leland Walsh became the coach at 49ers owner Ed DeBartolo, losing 18-17 to Georgia Tech in and Walsh spoke on the phone be led by senior captain Chris Stanford University on team President Carmen Policy, the Aloha Bowl. The Cardinal on Saturday, met Monday night, Baguer, who finished last Thursday, declining a chance to and coach George Seifert at­tied for second in the Pac-10 Tuesday and Wednesday before season with a 45-3 record, rejoin the San Francisco 49ers tended the news conference in­with a 6-2 mark. Walsh decided to accept the highlighted by a third-place fm­to return to the scene of his troducing Walsh at Stanford, as Walsh said he will tackle ev­post. There was no haggling ish in the Great Lakes Fencinghappiest coaching days. did running back Roger Craig of ery aspect of the job as the over salary, Walsh said, because 
Championships. Also compet­
Walsh, 60, wound up at the Los Angeles Raiders who Cardinal's head football coach, it is far less than he could have ing will be sophomore James Stanford less than a week after formerly played for the 49ers. even overseeing recruiting, a made with the 49ers or at NBC. 
Taliaferro, junior Henry Chou,all but signing a contract with "I had a gut feeling that he chore he did not enjoy in his Walsh will reportedly make 
freshman James Troug, and
the 49ers to become a full-time was going to come back (to first stint at Stanford. He began $350,000 a year. 
fifth-year senior David Kirby.
consultant for the NFL team. Stanford)," said DeBartolo. calling recruits Thursday "I'm still a little flabbergasted 
Junior captain David
Walsh coached two seasons at "Every time I would talk to Bill morning before his introduc­that we have a guy of his 
Calderhead, who took third
Stanford before taking over the he would say how much he likes tion. stature," Leland said. "We have 49ers in 1979, a team he led to to be around kids. He always "The best you are going to get a five-year contract, but we place honors at the 1990 three Super Bowl champi­talked about his days at out of is hopefully an adequate hope that Bill will have so much NCAAs, will look to lead the onships in 10 seasons. Stanford. replacement for Denny Green," fun here that he will finish his epee squad to victory. He will 
"We have work that we do "He would have been a big Walsh said. "Don't expect career at Stanford." be joined by junior Ben Finley and I feel that I am still at my help with our offensive coordi­better. You're not going to get it. It was while working for NBC, and two promising freshmen, best relating to people, teaching nator, but I'll think we'll be all Denny has done a marvelous working on several telecasts of Per Johnsson and Gregthe game of football to players right." job bringing this program from college football games involving 
Wozniak. 
and th.e coaches," Walsh said Choosing Stanford over the mediocrity to national Notre Dame, that the 
After last year's 24-1 markThursday at Stanford. "I 49ers was by no means easy for prominence.... You've got a atmosphere surrounding col­and third place finish in the
thoroughly enjoy the Walsh. replacement for Denny Green lege football grew on Walsh. 
NCAA Championships, the Irishdevelopment of a young athlete "It was very difficult," Walsh who is going to do everything "The young guys we met at men and coach DeChicco haveand then putting the said. "I love the 49ers. I love he can to sustain the program each one of these schools, in­for thiscomponents together in an those men. I care very much for and hopefully ... we can take it terviewing them ... we met high expectations 
weekend.
equation and then competing." the players, Jerry Rice and Joe another level higher." some magnificent young 
Walsh replaced Dennis Green, Montana, everyone of them, but Walsh also introduced Terry people," Walsh said. "That in "If we fall below third in the who left Stanford after three there is a time and a place for Shea, formerly the head coach itself reminded me that I might sabre, fourth in the epee, and seasons to become the head those things." at San Jose State, as his assis­be of more value somewhere fifth in the foil," said DeChicco, coach of the Minnesota Vikings, After spending three seasons tant coach and offensive coor­other than just remarking on 10 "I'll be very disappointed and and left the 49ers without as a television analyst for NBC, dinator. The rest of the staff will different ways on how to fumble we'll have to work extra hard." someone who was expected to Walsh took over a Stanford be put together as quickly as a football on television." 
As far as the women are con­cerned, they also carry high hopes into their foil matches
Elkington grabs share of Hope Classic lead 
after a season that saw them post a 22-1 record on their way into a 66 and a share of the playing well now. I've always until well after the turn at to a third place NCAA finish. 
BERMUDA DUNES, Calif. (AP) second-round lead Thursday in had a tendency, after I've had a Indian Wells. "Our women's team should -Just as he did a week ago, the five-day, 90-hole Bob Hope good tournament, to play well He was only one under par contest for the medal," noted Steve Elkington is attempting to Classic. the next week. for the day, then birdied five of DeChicco. "But Temple is a big follow the advice of his mentor, "It's hard to say, but I'm try­"It's an attitude thing," he his last six holes and tied Neal threat and Ohio State will be old champion Jack Burke. ing to do something here this said. "It was very exciting and Lancaster for the 36-hole lead 
very competitive." 
"Your clubs don't know what week," said Elkington, an everything last week. I loved it. at 133, 11 under par. Lancaster 
All-American Heidi Piper, 
you did last week. Keep it go­Australian native who now re­But I'm over it now and I want also had a 66. 
who posted an incredible 50ing," Burke told Elkington by sides in Houston on Burke's to see if I can do something 
wins last season, will be
telephone Monday, the day after Champions Golf Club. here." And his finish was even 
counted on to continue her
he had scored a playoff victory "Steve Jones did it a couple of He paused and smiled. stronger than Elkington's. 
winning ways. Joining her willin the Tournament of years ago, winning at La Costa "I guess I'm getting greedy," Lancaster played his back nine be sophomore Kathleen Vogt,
Champions. and following up here," he said. in 29 and had a string of five Elkington took heed, convert­Elkington recalled. Elkington, however, was in birdies and an eagle on the and juniors Tara Kelly and ing a fast finish at Indian Wells "I've got that in my mind. I'm danger of falling off the pace 12th through 17th holes. Mary Westrick. 
-------~------------------------­
SCOREBOARD
page 14 Friday, January 17, 1992 

NHL STANDINGS NBA STANDINGS---____ _ TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALLWALES CONFERENCE 
EASTERN CONFERENCE American League
Patrick Dlvialon 

Atlantic .Divieion MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Agreed to terms wnh w L rn
w L T Pts (F GO. Pet. B.J. Surhoff, catcher, on a one-year contract. NY Rangers 30 17 61 189 159 OAKLAND ATHLETICS-Agreed to terms with
New York 22 12 .647 
Washington 28 15 3 59 202 153 Terry Steinbach, catcher. on a one-year contract. 
Boston 21 15 .583 2 
Pittsburgh 24 16 5 53 203 189 National League
Miami 17 21 .447 7 
FLORIDA MARLINs-Named Jax Robertson Philadelphia 16 20 .444 7 national scout and Murray Cook midwest scout. 
New Jersey 22 15 7 51 172 134 
NY Islanders 17 22 6 40 168 183 New Jersey 16 21 .432 7 1/2 FOOTBALLPhiladelphia 14 21 9 37 126 151 Washington 14 22 .389 9 National Football League
Adame Dlvlalon 

28 .200 15 1/2 PHILADELPHIA EAGLEs-Named Larry Montreal 29 15 4 62 152 110 Pasquale special team& coach. Reassigned Dave 
Orlando 7 
Central Divleion 

Boston 22 18 5 49 159 157 Atkins to tight ends coach . 
Chicago 31 5 .861 
Buffalo 16 21 8 40 156 166 Profeealonal Spring Football League
Cleveland 24 1t .686 6 1/2 NEW MEXICO RATTLESNAKES-Named AJHartlord 15 22 5 35 130 147 Detroit 22 16 .579 10 Bruno head coach.
Quebec 11 28 5 27 138 181 Atlanta 19 16 .543 11 1/2 TENNISCAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Milwaukee 17 18 .486 13 1/2 INTERNATIONAL TENNIS FEDERATION-Fined Norrie Dlvieion Pat Cash $9,000 for verbally abusing an official at
Indiana 14 23 .378 17 1/2w L T Pts (F GO. the Australian Open.
Charlotte 11 26 .297 20 1/2
Detroit 26 13 6 58 185 150 SOCCER
WESTERN CONFERENCE 

Chicago 20 18 10 50 160 147 National ProfHeional Soccer League
Midweat Dlvieion 

CHICAGO POWER-Signed Ken Snow, forward.
St. Louis 20 18 8 48 163 159 
w L Pet. rn COLLEGEMinnesota 20 20 3 43 147 156 
Utah 23 15 .605 CANISIUS-Announced the Michael Meel<s has Toronto t2 29 5 29 116 170 
San Antonio 21 15 .583 1 translerred from Easter Kentucky. Smythe Diviaion 2 1/2 CITADEL-Named Randy Cooper and Kevin
Houston 20 17 .541 
Vancouver 25 13 7 57 161 132 Vickery assistant baseball coaches. 
Denver 15 22 .405 7 112 
Calgary 20 19 6 46 175 159 DUQUESNE-Named Greg Ganuso assistant 
Dallas 12 25 .324 10 112 
Winnipeg 19 20 8 46 145 148 lootball coach. Minnesota 7 29 .194 15 FLORIDA STATE-Announced that Arrp Lee,
Los Angeles 17 1_9 8 42 160 173 
Pacific Divlelon running back, will forego his senior year and applyEdmonton 17 23 7 41 164 186 
.697 San Jose tO 32 4 24 116 200 
Golden Stale 23 10 lor the NFL draft. 
Portland 24 12 .667 1/2 IDAHO STATE-Announced the resignation ol Wednaeday'a Gamea Phoenix 24 13 .649 1 Chuck Pagano, delensive coordinator, to take the Boston 4, Hartlord 3 same pos~lon at East Carolina.
LA Lakers 22 14 .611 2 112 
Buffalo 8, New Jersey 8, tie MlAM 1-Signed Dennis Erickson, football coach,
LA Clippers 19 19 .500 6 1/2 to a five-year contract.
Minnesota 5, Montreal 2 Seattle 18 18 .500 6 112 NEVADA-Named Jeff Horton assistant lootball Vancouver 5, Edmonton 3 Sacramento 10 26 .278 14 1/ll coach.

Thureday'a Gamee Late Game Not Included Boston 4, Hartford 3, OT Pittsburgh 3, Detroit 3, tie N.Y. Islanders 4, Philadelphia 3 
N.Y. Rangers 6, Calgary 4 Chicago 4, Toronto 0 Montreal 6, St. Louis 6, tie Washington at Los Angeles, (n) 
Eleven thousand of the most 
Frlday'a Gamee No games scheduled brilliant people in America Saturday'• Game All-Star Game at Philadelphia, 1 p.m. work in a profession that few Sunday'e Gamaa No games scheduled of us even know exists. No 
matter how smart we are.
•1.1, ,M1:lrfi a+':'''', 
1. 
Duke (11-0) did not play. Next: vs. No. 18 Few careers eomhine more N.C. Charto11e, Saturday. 

2. 
UCLA (1 0-0) vs. Oregon. Next: vs. Oregon challenge and diversity with tate, Saturday. 

3. 
Oklahoma State (15-0) did not play. Next: greater financial reward. vs. No. 24 Iowa State, Saturday. 

4. 
Ohio State (10·2) did not play. Next: vs. You can learn like a Ph.D. Iowa, Sunday. 

5. 
Indiana (12-2) did not play. Next: at while you earn like an MBA -Nonhwestem, Saturday. 

6. 
Kansas (12-1) did not play. Next: at and have a lot more fun along Colorado, Saturday. 

7. 
Arizona (10-2) at Washington. Next: at the way. Washington State, Saturday. 

8. 
Connecticut (12-1) did not play. Next: at Miami, Saturday. All majors welcome. Just 

9. 
Alabama (14·2) did not play. Next: at Auburn, Saturday. bring your exceptional mental 

10. 
Kentucky (13-2) did not play. Next: vs. Eastern Kentucky, Saturday. skills, math skills, people 

11. 
Michigan State (12-1) did not play. Next: 

at Minnesota, Saturday. skills and (hiving will to 

12. 
Arkansas (14-3) did not play. Next: at 

Mississippi, Saturday. achieve. We'll show you how 

13. 
Missouri (11-2) did not play. Next: at 

Nebraska, Saturday. to twn a great brain into a 

14. 
North Carolina (12-2) beat Wake Forest 90-79. Next: vs. VIllanova, brilliant career. Sunday. 

15. 
Michigan (9·3) did not play. Next: at lllnols, Saturday. 


This summer, start building 
16. Georgia Tech (13-3) did not play. Next: at Wake Forest, Saturday. 
your career with Aetna. We'll
17. St. John's (9-4) did not play. Next: vs. Providence, Saturday. 
be on campus Wednesday,
18. N.C. Charlotte (11-1) did not play. Next: at No. 1 Duke, Saturday. 
F ehruary 12, interviewing for 
19. Tulane (13·0) beat VIrginia Tech 80-60. Next: at Texas Tech, Saturday. 
our Actuarial summer intern­
20. 
Syracuse {12-1) did not play. Next: vs. Pl11sburgh, Saturday. ship program in Hartford,

21. 
Seton Hall (9-4) did not play. Next: vs. Boston College at the Connecticut. In order to be 

Meadowlands, Saturday. 

22. 
Georgetown (9-3) did not play. Next: vs. considered for our closed DePaul, S aturday 

23. 
Oklahoma (10-2) did not play. Next: at schedule, please submit yourKansas State, Saturday. 

24. 
Iowa State {13-2) did not play. Net: at resume to Career Placement No. 3 Oklahoma State, Saturday. 

25. 
Louisville (9-3) beat South Florida 60-Services by January 22. 


47. Next: vs. Wyoming, Saturday. 
HOPE CLASSIC SCORES 
Steve Elkington 67-66-133 -11 Neal Lancaster 67-66-133 -11 Nolan Henke 69-6&-t34 -10 Gene Sauers 69-6&-134 
-10 

Kenny Perry 69-6&-134 -10 Bnan Claar 
71-63-134 -10 Mark O'Meara 66-89-135 -9 Fred Couples 68-67-135 • 9 
Davis Love Ill m 67-66-135 -9 Ted Schulz 
68-67-135 ·9 Thomas Lehman 70-6&-135 
-9 

Gil Morgan 66-69-135 -9 David Peoples-64-71-135 -9 Larry Rlnkerm 87-69-136 -8 Jay Haas 66-66-136 -8 
John Huston 66-70-136 
-8 

-8

Marl\ Broolul 68-66-136 
Jeff Sluman 68-66-136 -8 Rick Fehr 64-72-136 
-8 

Summer Internships Available. 
Bart Bryanl 70-87-137 -7 Lanny Wadkins 66-71-137 -7 Dully Waldort 7~7-137 -7 
,_ 
Leonard Thompson 88-89-137 ·1 Doug Tewell 8D-68-137 -7 Tommy Armour Ill 88-~137 -7 Lee Janzen 89-66-137 
-7 

71-66-137 -7Bob Lohr 
.. 4 .. ...... 
f.)i ... IJ.. ...J '-~ : a I 
Friday, January 17,1991 The Observer page 15 
Fitzpatrick helps Islanders defeat Flyers, 4-3 


penalty shot as the New York season and is 7-0-3 in the last 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. (AP) -Rangers beat the Calgary 10 games between the clubs. Goaltender Mark Fitzpatrick, Flames 6-4. The Penguins led 3-0 after continuing his comeback, won Six different players scored two periods only to have the his second straight game as the for the Rangers, who became Red Wings score three goals in New York Islanders defeated the frrst team in the NHL to win the third period. the Philadelph'a Flyers 4-3 on 30 games (30-17-1). The Bruins 4, Whalers 3, OT Thursday night. Rangers entered the game tied BOSTON (AP) Rosie 
Fitzpatrick, who has been with Washington for the Patrick Ruzicka scored his 21st goal sidelined for most of the last Division lead. just 26 seconds into overtime two years by a rare blood dis­Calgary, which was 7-1-1 in and the Boston Bruins beat the ease, made 30 saves in only his its last nine games, was beaten Hartford Whalers 4-3 for their third start of the season. He 4-0 in its other visit this season fourth victory in a row and a won his first game on Tuesday to Madison Square Garden on sweep of a 24-hour home-and­night, 6-2 over Detroit. Nov. 4. home NHL series. 
The Flyers extended their Penguins 3, Red Wings 3 road winless streak to six DETROIT (AP) -Steve The Bruins, who won 4-3 in games (0-5-1). The Flyers have Chaisson's fifth goal capped a Hartford on Wednesday night, only one road victory in their furious Detroit comeback as the outshot their Adams Division last nine games, 3-0 in Red Wings forged a 3-3 tie with rival 43-26 before Ruzicka took Minnesota on Dec. 21. Pittsburgh, halting a five-game a pass from Steve leach and 
Rangers 6, Flames 4 losing streak against the skated in to score on a 25-foot 
NEW YORK (AP) -Darren Penguins. wrist shot from the right circle. Turcotte and Randy Gilhen It was the first game of the That extended Boston's scored goals 23 seconds apart season between the Penguins record against Hartford to 6-0 in the first period and Paul and Red Wings. Pittsburgh this season and to 10-0-1 since Broten added a second-period swept a three-game series last Nov. 13, 1990. 
Bulls cruise past Cavs, extend lead in Central 
RICHFIELD, Ohio (AP) -Each time the Chicago Bulls looked over their shoulders the past few weeks, the Cleveland Cavaliers were right there. Something had to be done. 
"We wanted some more room between us and them, plus the mental thing," Michael Jordan said Thursday night after his 35 points led the Bulls past Cleveland 100-85 in a meeting of the NBA's two leading teams. 
The win was Chicago's sev­enth straight, extending the Bulls' best start ever to 31-5. Cleveland (24-11) lost its second straight since matching a team record with 11 consecutive wins. 
The Bulls have won their last 12 games against Cleveland, but the majority of those came against an injury-ravaged Cavalier team that didn't even get to the playoffs last year. 
This year, Cleveland has no such excuse, and the Bulls have won both meetings so far. 
"It's the second time we've faced them when they were healthy," Jordan said. "We were looking for what we might see from them for the rest of the season. I thought this was a playoff-type game. We knew what was at stake." 
The Cavaliers were unde­feated against Chicago during the 1988-89 season, before Jordan beat them with a last­second shot in the final game of the first round of the playoffs. The Bulls have dominated the series ever since. 
"We can make a statement for now, but there's a long way to go," Jordan said. 
Cleveland has lost consecutive home games to Portland and Chicago, indicating it can't yet count itself among the league's elite. 
"We want to get to be a team like Chicago," Brad Daugherty said. "They bounce back from situation after situation. I still think we can be a good team. We've got work to do." 
Jordan committed his fourth foul with 9:10 left in the third quarter, but coach Phil Jackson's decision to leave him on the floor paid off. Jordan scored 14 points in the period, helping Chicago to a 75-69 lead entering the fourth. 
Cleveland closed to 77-7 5 when rookie Terrell Brandon hit an 18-foot jumper with 9:15 left in the game, before the Bulls clinched it with a 20-6 run capped by six straight points from Jordan. B.J. Armstrong's 3-point shot midway through the flurry put Chicago up by nine, demoralized the Cavs and quieted the sellout crowd of 20,273. 
Scottie Pippen scored 23 for Chicago. He and Jordan com­bined for 26 of the Bulls' 28 points in the third quarter. 
John Battle led Cleveland with a season-high 20 points. Larry Nance scored 16 and Daugherty and Mark Price each had 14. 
Nuggets 101, Mavericks 90 
DALLAS (AP) -Winston Garland scored 25 points and broke open the game with three straight buckets late in the fourth period Thursday night as the Denver Nuggets defeated Dallas 101-90, the Mavericks' lOth consecutive loss. 
The victory broke an eight­game road losing streak for Denver, which has won only two of its last seven games. 
Garland took charge when 
the Mavericks made a fourth­quarter rally and hit three straight baskets to give Denver an 86-82 lead with 3:48 left. 
Garland added two more baskets for an 11-point fourth quarter. Reggie Williams scored 24 points for Denver and Dikembe Mutombo had 14 points and 14 rebounds for the Nuggets. 
Dallas was led by Derek Harper, who scored 24 points, and Rolando Blackman, who added 20. Herb Williams scored 14 points for the Mavericks. Terry Davis had 13 rebounds. 
The Mavericks haven't won a game since Dec. 23. 
Denver, the lowest-scoring team in the NBA, hit 4 7 percent of its shots from the field while Dallas could only muster 36 percent. 
Mutombo had four of Denver's nine blocked shots. 

"The Greatest" celebrates his 50th 
were lost because Ali was not that resulted in a light-heavy­
(AP)-Muhammad Ali is 50 permitted to fight when he re­weight gold medal at the 1960 years old, and on Friday night fused military induction over Olympics. his family and friends will cele­his opposition to the Vietnam In his 20th pro fight, on Feb. brate with a bash. War. 25, 1964, Ali stunned the box­
They'll remember the beauty "I got no quarrel with them ing world by dethroning Sonny ... the grace ... the charm ... the Vietcong," he said at the time. Liston. daring ... the power ... the Ali had raised the ire of con­"Don't you go saying this was speed. All were attributes that servative America long before, no fix," Ali shouted from the made Ali the most recognized changing his name from ring after Liston was unable to sports figure in the world. Cassius Clay and pledging his answer the bell for the seventh 
Ali, now afflicted with life to the Black Muslims. But it round. Parkinson's Syndrome, is no didn't hurt his performance, Ali won his rematch with "the longer the vibrant personality Dundee believes. big, ugly bear" a year later, who transcended generations, " ... People ask me, 'Who knocking out Liston with what whose beliefs extended far be­would have won, the became known as "the phan­yond the ring. One of those be­Muhammad Ali after the exile tom punch." That victory was liefs cost him dearly. or the Cassius Clay before the suspect, especially in the minds 
"We never saw Muhammad at exile?' I say the Muhammad Ali of those who believed Liston to his best," trainer Angelo after the exile." be indestructable. Dundee said. "He would have Born Cassius Marcellus Clay "The Greatest," as Ali called been as his peak sometime dur­Jr. in Louisville, Ky., he gained himself, never had to justify his ing those 3 1/2 years." prominence and a nickname -victories again. 
Those years (1967-1970) the Louisville Lip -on a run He waged epic battles with the likes of champions Joe Frazier and George Foreman. Ali ducked no one, fighting nine men who at one time were des­ignated as heavyweight cham­pions. 
A promoter-extrodinaire, Ali mixed poetry with training,
Choose from delicious, hearty Shoney's Homestyle Dinners frequently predicting with un­like Country Fried Steak, Half O'Pound Charbroiled Beef canny accuracy the outcome of Patty, and Meat Loaf. Shoney's Homestyle Dinners also his fights. He scornfully nick­
named his foes and labeled his
include a choice of two side items: rice, mashed potatoes, 
fights.
green beans, cole slaw, or french fries. 
Perhaps the most famous were "the Thrilla in Manila," the final of his three battles with Frazier, in which Ali re­
E~~s:des SHONE~~
Salad &Fruit t.. 

tained his crown in 1975; and 
Available at 
the "Rumble in the Jungle." In
participating restaurants ® 
that fight, Ali stunned the world by knocking out an awesome
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland Foreman at Kinshasa, Zaire. 
page 16 The Observer Friday, January 17,1991 
Some good news and bad news for Sunshine State 
Dennis Erickson signs new five-year pact with Miami 
new  five-year  contract  
Thursday.  
Erickson  has  led  the  


CORAL GABLES, Fla. (AP) ­Coach Dennis Erickson, who has repeatedly said he'll stay with the Miami Hurricanes rather than take an NFL job, put the pledge in writing on a 
Hurricanes to the national championship in two of his three seasons at Miami. In the past month he has been men­tioned as a candidate for nearly every vacant NFL job. 
This season, the Hurricanes shared the national champi­onship with Washington. The Huskies were ranked number one in the coaches poll. 
"It's important to me to stay here for the players at the 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) ­Running back Amp Lee, one of the most productive and sure­handed players in Florida State history, has become the second Seminole underclassman to an­nounce plans to skip his senior year and turn pro. 
The 6-foot, 190-pound Lee informed Florida State coaches of his decision Thursday. 
"I just told him I'm pulling for him," backs coach Billy Sexton said. "He was such an important part of hour football team and provided a lot of leadership." 
Lee, 20, joins defensive back and teammate Terrell Buckley in opting for an early shot at the NFL. 
Lee ran into academic prob­lems in the last semester and was ineligible to play in the Cotton Bowl Jan. 1 because of state higher education rules, which are more strict than NCAA guidelines. 

Dennis Erickson 

University of Miami and to maintain the stability of the program," Erickson said in a statement. "My family and I love the university and the South Florida community, and hope to remain here a long time." 
The new agreement extends 
Florida State's Amp Lee decides to skip senior year 
"He's in the junior college and working his way back in good standing there," Sexton said. "He's still going to do that." 
Head coach Bobby Bowden was downstate recruiting and unavailable for comment on the departure of his star runner. 
"I've made my decision -one I'm going with," said Lee, who has until Feb. 1 to report his availability for the NFL draft in April. He forfeits his collegiate eligibility once he officially files. 
"In my opinion, he'll have no problem in the next league," Sexton said. "He's going to make you miss him as good as anybody. He's a tremendous competitor. He enjoys the phys­icalness of the game. It makes his blood run." 
Although not known for great speed, Lee was a durable and elusive back whose skills as a receiver make him desirable in the pro game. He's fifth on the 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•Sports 
briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday until 5 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit a short brief, your full name, and the date the brief is to be run. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submissions. 

•Late 
Night Olympics teams are being organized at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Interested persons should contact their hall LNO representative for information on the latest night of the year-Late Night Olympics, Friday, Jan. 31. 

•The 
Water Polo team will start practice on Monday, January 


20. Bring $25 semester dues. 
•Attention 
all Sailing Club members and officers. This will be a mandatory meeting on Tuesday, January 21 at 6:30 in room 204 0' Shaugnessy. There will be information about elections and Comodore's Ball. Please attend. If you cannot attend call Moira at 284-5344or Adrienne at 284-5085. 

•All 
women interested in rowing women's varsity crew: There will be a first workout and meeting on Saturday 18 at 11 


a.m. in front the J.A.C.C. gym. Come dressed to workout. 
We need vou. 
A American Heart 
~Association 
Erickson's contract through 1996. Other terms of the deal were not disclosed. Erickson's old contract, which was scheduled to expire in 1995, paid him an estimated $250,000 a year. 
Erickson, 44, has a three-year record of 33-3 at Miami. He replaced Jimmy Johnson, who resigned following the 1988 season to become head coach of the Dallas Cowboys. 
The Hurricanes finished 12-0 in 1991. They capped the season with a 22-0 victory over Big Eight champion Nebraska in the Orange Bowl. 
"This simply indicates our confidence and appreciation for Dennis' leadership and suc­cess," athletic director Dave Maggard said. 
school's career rushing list with 2,092 yards. His 28 career rushing touchdowns puts him second on the school's all-time list behind Greg Allen, who had 44. 
But the most impressive statistic on Lee is probably the one that underscored his de­pendability. He fumbled just once in the 504 times he han­
AP Photo 

dled the ball. 
Florida State running back Amp Lee, shown here versus Penn State in the 1990 Blockbuster Bowl, declared himself eligible for the NFL Draft. 

% 
• 



12 Month Certificate of Deposit 
Interest Paid at Maturity • $2,000 Minimum Deposit 
6.25% 
12 month IRA Certificate of Deposit Interest paid at maturity • $500 minimum deposit 
6.00% 
IRA Savings • Interest paid monthly • $100 minimum deposit 
Annual interest rates listed above are subject to change without notice. Substantial penalty for early withdrawal. Call today to see how you may qualify for credit union membership. 
0 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
(219) 239-6611 
NCUA 
Ha11onalCIIdltUDIODA41111lllllra'IIOO

Independent from the University of Notre Dame 
nUSO:OO.•nuuaiAQ•ocy 

Sonics seeking new coach
Perles close to agreement 
SEATTLE (AP) --Thirty-six
"I really don't feel comfort­until their season is completed. 
games into the season, the
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) able speaking about him with Irsay said he hoped to have 
Seattle SuperSonics decided
Michigan State football coach the Super Bowl coming up," Venturi stay on as defensive K.C. Jones wasn't their kind ofGeorge Perles remains a strong Irsay said, adding that he antic­coordinator if he does not get coach.
candidate to become the head ipated no selection of a coach the head coaching job, and that 
Now, team owner Barry
coach of the Indianapolis Colts, would be made before the Perles was willing to take the Ackerley and club president
the club's general manager said game. job with that understanding. 
Bob Whitsitt must find a suc­
Thursday. Perles, an assistant for 10 cessor --and quickly.
Jim Irsay said he and his fa­"The time frame, right now, it years under Chuck Noll when 
ther, club owner Robert Irsay, is most likely mid-week after the Steelers won four Super 
met with Perles for seven hours the Super Bowl before we have Bowls, was being interviewed "Bob and Barry wanted to make some changes," Jones
Thursday and that he had also a decision, and quickly after the for the second time and Irsay 
said. "In this business of
met with him for about an hour Super Bowl," Irsay said, adding said his solid NFL background coaching, all the owner is inter­
Wednesday night. that former Philadelphia coach and reputation in the league 
ested in is getting W's. If a
Buddy Ryan had called him was impressive. 
coach can't bring those, then,"The discussions went well. I about the job Wednesday night hey, move him aside and bringfeel we're making progress to­but that he "was never a candi­"If you talk to people in this someone else in." 
wards making a decision," Jim date." league, coaches and general Irsay told a news conference. "Nobody else is a candidate, managers, the word soundness Sonics scout Bob Kloppenburg
Irsay said he and his father except those guys you've been comes with him," Irsay said of will be the team's interim coach would interview interim coach talking about," Irsay said in the 57-year-old Perles. "His 
until Whitsitt names a new
Rick Venturi on Friday and that reference to Perles, Venturi and teams have always played ex­Sonics head coach.
he would like to talk to Buffalo Marchibroda. "I told him (Ryan) tremely hard, a notch above the The Sonics' front office wasoffensive coordinator Ted right now we're not planning on level that they are even capable dissatisfied with the way theMarchibroda, a former Colts' adding anyone to this list." of. That's one thing he has a 
head coach, after the Jan. 26 reputation for. He has a team was performing on the court in their 25th anniversary
Super Bowl. The Indianapolis News re­tremendous reputation for 
season, and with the way the"Perles is an impressive per­ported Thursday that establishing a running game, 
players were responding to
son, but we have no decision Marchibroda admitted being in­with a great defense and sound 
Jones' easy-going coaching
today," Irsay said. terested in the Colts' position, special teams." 
style.

Leary of tampering charges, but that any comment would be Perles had been offered the "We'll search to find some­Irsay was cautious in discussing "premature until after the head coaching job by the New 
Machibroda, who compiled a Super Bowl." York Jets and Green Bay body who can coach the up­tempo style we want," Whitsitt
41-36 record in five seasons NFL rules prohibit contact Packers in recent years, but when the Colts were based in between a team and members elected to stay at Michigan said. "We want someone who 
can get the life and enthusiasm
Baltimore. of another team's coaching staff State. 
LSAT • GMAT • GRE • MCAT 
THERE'S A NEW WAY To PREPARE FOR GRADUATE SCHOOL. 
Small Classes. Individual attention. Application assistance. Call us today to find out more. 
_THE__ 
I 

back on the team." 
Whitsitt didn't talk about names. But those expected to be given serious consideration are former Atlanta coach Mike Fratello, now a color commen­tator for NBC and the Los Angeles Clippers; New York Knicks assistant Paul Silas; and Golden State assistant Garry St. Jean. 
Sonics spokesman Jim Rupp said Thursday that he expects it will take two weeks for Whitsitt to make up his mind. 
Jones, 59, coached the Celtics to league titles in 1984 and 1986. He was fired with the Sonics at 18-18 after coaching them to a 41-41 record and into the playoffs last year. 
The Sonics have had a series of injuries but are generally considered underachievers in what was supposed to be a highly successful season. Jones was dismissed after a 117-116 loss to Charlotte in Seattle Tuesday night. 
Benoit Benjamin, Shawn Kemp, Derek McKey and Gary Payton, all starters, have been criticized by local fans and the media for a perceived lack of intensity this season. 
The only starter who has escaped criticism has been Ricky Pierce, the team's leading scorer, whose hustle has been unquestioned. 
"K.C. should have put his foot in their rear ends for not play­ing better," Pierce said. 
kinko·s· 
the-copy center 
I STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour<llances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
eDUCATIONAl GROUP 
SOUTH BEND 
•sTANlEYu.KAPlAN
A TalrE KaplanOrTakeYourClwus
273-1866 
1717 E. South Bend Av_e. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272.-4135 
page 18 The Observer Friday, January 17,1991 
Irish swimmers to take on NIU and Cleveland State 
By JASON KELLY  November 8 against Western  Roger Rand were also winners  explained.  "They're already  this year," Broderick added.  
Sports Writer  Ontario.  at Bowling Green, capturing the  resting for their conference  "The freshmen are especially  
At Bowling Green on December  50-yard freestyle and the 200­ meet and since we're working a  strong, and that adds a lot of  

The Notre Dame men's swim team will add a few more miles to their travel log tonight as they travel to Northern Illinois before returning home Saturday afternoon to face Cleveland State. After more than a month on the road, Rolrs Aquatic Center will be a welcome sight to the team, whose last home meet was 13, the Irish improved their record to 7-4 with a dominating win over the Falcons. Sophomore Jim Doran led the way, winning the 1,000-yard freestyle with a time of 9:41.98 and the 500-yard freestyle in 
4:44.02. Sean Hyer dominated the diving competition with wins in the one-meter and three-meter events. Seniors Jim Birmingham and yard breaststroke, respectively. Overall, the Irish took 12 of the 13 events on the way to a 178­66 win. The tables were turned as they began the new year on the road against powerful Texas A&M. The Aggies had the upperhand throughout, dropping the Irish to 7-5. "They're in a different stage of training," junior Ed Broderick 

U of Miami attorneys fight back 
MIAMI (AP) -Two defense attorneys attacked the federal government's efforts to uncover a financial aid conspiracy in the University of Miami athletic department. 
Attorney Roy Kahn said in­vestigators are on a "fishing expedition" as they try to prove that his client, Tony Hussell, had help from other university administrators in falsifying fi­nancial aid forms. 
"The feds are trying to make a case out of something that doesn't exist," Kahn said Wednesday. 
Bussell. a former academic counselor at the university, has admitted doctoring 40 applica­tions for federal Pell Grants. 
Another attorney filed a mo­tion Wednesday in U.S. District Court related to the investiga­tion. Alan Boss contends that federal authorities indicted Miami running back Martin 
U.S. Olympic tennis team selected 
NEW YORK {AP) -The U.S. Tennis Association on Thursday nominated three men and four women for the teams that will compete in the Barcelona Olympics. As significant as those named were those not named. 
Among the missing American players were John McEnroe, Andre Agassi and Martina Navratilova. 
Chosen to the men's singles team were Jim Courier, Pete Sampras and Michael Chang, with Courier and Sampras picked for doubles. 
Selected for the women's team were Jennifer Capriati, Mary Joe Fernandez and Zina Garrison in singles, and Fernandez and the unrelated Gigi Fernandez in doubles. 
Navratilova, ranked fourth in the world -higher than any women's player chosen-was ineligible because she skipped last year's Federation Cup tournament. 
However, the outspoken McEnroe, who has lobbied for a spot on the men's team, and the fiery Agassi, ranked No. 11 ­higher than Chang's No. 16 ranking-were bypassed, even though they made themselves available for international competition in 1991. 
The nominations are subject to the approval of the U.S. Olympic Committee. Following approval by the USOC, the names must be submitted to the International Tennis Federation. The ITF is expected to announce the accepted com­petitors next month. 
The selection procedure was based upon three criteria: availability for the 1991 Davis Cup or Federation Cup teams; current world rankings, and availability. 
Patton only to squeeze informa­tion out of him concerning the Pell Grant case. 
Ross' motion seeks dismissal of credit-card fraud charges against Patton. 
Said Diane Cossin, spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney's Office: "There has been no improper action by the government. These are two separate investigations." 
Bussell could have been charged months ago, but au­thorities are still trying to de­termine whether he had an ac­complice. 
''I'm sure there is nothing else there," said Kahn, Bussell's attorney. "They are putting a cloud over the whole university for no reason. This has gone on long enough." 
A grand jury hearing testi­mony about the Pell Grant probe hasn't met in more than a month because of the holidays and because prosecutor Marty 


Among the men, Courier is est-ranked women selected. ranked No. 2, Sampras No. 6 Mary Joe Fernandez is No. 7, and McEnroe No. 28. Garrison No. 15 and Gigi 
Capriati, No. 6, was the high-Fernandez No. 19. 
AP Phuto Zina Garrison, shown here at the Virginia Slims of Chicago, was chosen to play singles on the Olympic tennis team along with Jennifer Capriati. 
Goldberg has been busy handling other cases. 
Every university administra­tor and coach subpoenaed has testified that Bussell acted alone in falsifying the applica­tions, said Dave Lieberman, the school's vice president of busi­ness and finance. 
"Nothing out of the ordinary has come out of the testimony of our employees," Lieberman said. 'There are no bombshells here." 
Because students cannot be represented by university coun­sel, Lieberman said, he does not know what students have told the grand jury. Students are not the subject of the investigation. 
"We have no indication of where this thing is headed," Lieberman said. "The investiga­tors tell us only what they want us to know, which isn't a lot." 
The NCAA will investigate after federal authorities com­plete their work. 
little harder right now, I think that helped them." A good situation awaits the Irish tonight, however, as they face a struggling Northern Illinois team. The Huskies have managed only a 1-4 record this season, largely due to a lack of numbers, and depth should help the Irish prevail tonight. "We're strong in a lot of events depth." That depth will be needed again on Saturday as the Irish face their second meet in as many days when Cleveland State comes to town. This weekend offers the Irish an opportunity to rebound after the tough loss to Texas A&M, and Broderick believes they just need to be consistent to be successful. 
Rosenthal elected to NCAA Council 
director Fred Gruninger, 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) -whose term expired, as the Notre Dame athletic director Division 1-A independent Dick Rosenthal has been north representative. elected to a four-year term on the 46-member NCAA Rosenthal also serves on the Council, the governing board NCAA's special events commit­for major college sports. tee and postseason football 
He replaces Rutgers athletic subcommittee. 
Half Of This Year's Medical School Class Got There With Our Help 
No one can guarantee your acceptance to medical school. But we can guarantee that you'\1 score your highest on the MCAT. Our unique Test Your Best"' guarantee is your insurance policy. If you're not completely satisfied with your MCAT score, we'II let you repeat the entire course. . at no charge! 
We offer expert live instruction, innovative home study materials, unlimited revjew m our TEST -N-TAPE~ labs and lots of personal attention. That's why Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared more test takers, and produced more top MCAT scores, than everyone else combined' 
! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
For other locations call800-KAP-TEST 
ATTENTION ALL SOPHOMORES The Sophomore Class Council presents: February 15-16 Ticket includes: Cost:: $55.00 1 night at the Palmer House A Limited # of Tickets go on Sale 4 people per room Today at promptly 3 p.m. at the Dinner at the French Quarter Sophomore Class office (2nd floor Evening at a Comedy Club LaFortune)  

Friday, January 17, 1992 
The Observer page 19 
THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLEii 



AS '10\l Ct..N SEE, Sl't>GJ~II.N SP\H. WE 1-\f\'lE Wf>:'IS or EX\l<KTING \Nmi<MII.TI0\-1 
FROM EVEN 1\.\E ¥1051 
VNC.OO\'ERf:.-11\IE PRISJNDD ~ 
OIJR 1-\ERO, CAP\\JR(\) 13'{ ZORKONS I £'{6 114E 
\)\f:>..BOLICAL \1\iSW.\lt-\EN\S 
m TORt\.JR.t.~ 

YER'{ t:>.M\JSI~G. "(OIJ I'N\S\E\) S'VP..CE. F~. 
'NI-\f:.-1'5 TillS F\Ef\10\SI-\ 
OC\1\CE Cb..LLEI)? 
II. 0-\\N-IJP BAR. G£T ON IT. 


CAMPUS 
Friday andSaturday 

7:30 and 9:30 p.m. Film, "My Own Private Idaho." AnnenbergAuditorium, Snite Museum of Art. 
Monday 

7:30 p.m. Panel discussion, "Civil Rights: Past, Present and Future." Moderated by Professor Sabrina McCarthy, room 120 Law School. 
> 

@Edward Julius Collegiate CW8729 MENU 
ACROSS 

43 Iowa college town 13 Decree 
44 "Peanuts" character 14 Playing cards Notre Dame 1 Beach toys 46 ----avis 19 Small drinks 6 Cowboy attire 47 Sailor 22 Provokes 
11 George Gallup's 48 ----energy 24 President Arthur Mississippi Fried Catfish profession 50 Joke 26 Unsportsmanlike Pork Fried Rice 13 Luxurious 51 A slurring over 28----limit 
Vegetable Calzone 

15 Female stage role 53 Biblical tribesman 30 Negative vote 16 Greek goddess of 55 Creator of Fagin 31 Title for Olivier Thrkey Steak Mozzarella Sandwich 
agriculture 56 Invented 33 Delegated authority17 Slapstick prop 57 "Red ----in the to 18 Varieties of black Sunset" 34 East African 
Saint Mary's 

wood 58 Theatre inventory natives 20 Sandpiper 35 Well-known 21 Merit DOWN patriotic song Fried perch23 Like an icy road 36 Sharpen 
Pizza

24 Snug 1 Dagger 37 Type of poet 
Chicken Fajitas 

25 Freeze-----2 Libya's neighbor 38 Clergymen27 Make a choice 3 ----de France 39 Abhorred 28 Brake parts 4 Game of bowling 40 Natives of 29 Credit extension 5 Treats with dis-Helsinki 
tactics dain 42 Showed much 31 Disburse 6 Golf club anger 32 Ice ----7 Does sewing 44 ----share 33 Cutting tools 8 Application item 45 Opposing teams 34 Like some crackers 9 Colonial landowner 48 German port 36 Church dissenter 10 Reacted to snuff 49 Inlet 39 Comfortable 11 Transmitted, as 52 What Phil Mahre 40 Dandy music can do 41 Object to 12 College course 54 "Mama ----!" 

Sports 
page 20 Friday, January 17,1991 
Notre Dame looks to down another ACC opponent 


Irish travel to Virginia to face the Cavaliers tomorrow 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Stith scored 28 points in last Sports Editor season's victory over the Irish, including the final 19 Cavalier 
Whoever made the current points of the game and 20 of Fighting Irish basketball Virginia's 39 second-half points. schedule must have been ob­Stith is also the fourth all-time sessed with Willie Nelson. scorer in Cavalier history. 
Today, Notre Dame (4-6) em­"The biggest thing for us is to barks for the final two games of keep Stith in check," said a grueling nine-game road Tower. "He's their leading swing, the likes of which had scorer and one of the top play­not graced an Irish schedule ers in the country. We know we
Bryant Stith 

since 1922. can't shut him down completely, Under first-year coach John but we can slow him down. We
meetings.MacLeod, the Irish have gone 4-also know that if it's a tight
1\vo seasons ago, Notre Dame 3 through the first seven games game, he's their go-to guy. We'll
saw its NCAA tournament hopesof the trip, including a shocking dashed early, as Virginia try to deny him the ball like we 88-76 win over North Carolina. did against Harold Miner of USC
throttled the Irish 75-67 in the Awaiting MacLeod's squad are and Randy Woods of LaSalle." 
first round. Last season, the the Virginia Cavaliers, another Stith's prowess aside, the
Cavaliers came from behind to 

ACC team and Marquette rested Irish are going to
steal a 68-67 victory in their Warriors. Virginia with winning on their
first-ever appearance at the And what does Notre Dame mind.
Joyce ACC. Daimon Sweet and think about going back out on "I think that West Virginia
Elmer Bennett each scored 21 

the road? was a matter of us running out
points in the loss. 

"We're pretty comfortable, of gas," said Tower. "We played
Recent history, however, has actually," said senior center hard but we didn't have the
seen MacLeod's Irish capitalizeKeith Tower. "We went to some mental edge we had in our
on come from behind heroics. 

hostile environments like other games. We got into foul
During the current road swing,

Kentucky and West Virginia, trouble because we were tired
Notre Dame won late victories 

and I think we fared very well. and playing out of position. But
against Valparaiso, Southern So we're not afraid to go out on we're rested, and I think we'll
Cal, and LaSalle. the road. We're well-rested, Yet if the Irish plan to con­be fine. we've had a lot longer to pre­"I think we're pretty well
tinue their unlikely march to­

pare for this game." rested right now. We're going
wards a winning season, theySaturday will be the first Irish down to Virginia for a war.
must contain Cavalier All­visit to Virginia's University They've had lots of success
America candidate Bryant Stith, 

Hall. The Cavaliers hold a 3-1 there, and they probably should 
who averaged 19.8 points per

lead in the series, and have have beaten Duke. We're going
game in 1991. dumped the Irish in the last two down preparing for war." 
SMC hoops hoping to bounce back 
By CHRIS BACON Restovich and sophomore guard The Belles are also going to Sports Writer Courtney Swift. Libbing leads have to shut down Chicago's all scorers, averaging 18 points, junior guard Catherine 
The Saint Mary's basketball nine rebounds and three assists Fitzgerald, who averaged 9.5 team, hoping to rebound from per game. Although Libbing points and 10.5 assists per Tuesday night's 91-7 4 defeat at scored 16 points in the team's game last season. Aurora University, faces the contest against Aurora, Libbing After the Belles' loss to University of Chicago tonight was shut down on the Aurora, coach Don "Popcorn" and Lake Forest College on perimeter, missing all of her Cromer has been tough in prac­Saturday. three-point field goal attempts. tice. 
Both home games pose chal­Libbing was ranked fifth in "They (Aurora) did to us what lenges to the 1-5 Belles. They the nation in three point per­we are supposed to be doing. split with Chicago last season, centage, sinking eight of 14, They ran the fast break and we losing in the Roundball Classic, going into last Tuesday's game. were too tired. So, they got the 73-85, but getting revenge in Restovich also had a cold night easy shots," explained Cromer. Chicago later in the season with on the perimeter. Ranked tenth "Our biggest problem was that 
< 
a 86-79 overtime victory. Lake in the nation in three-point field we couldn't get back on Forest also beat the Belles last goal percentage, Restovich shot defense. Our transition game year, 81-72. only 25 percent from the wasn't well. We're hoping it 
"Revenge always makes is an perimeter. won't happen to us on Friday incentive to work harder, to be "We've always played at our night." more intense," senior forward peak before break. Then every­"These are two tough teams. Catherine Restovich said. one goes home and gets out of We'll have to be intense," said 
The key for any Belles' victory shape," Restovich commented. Libbing. "We'll have to come tonight will be with seniors "We just have to work hard to out and play like we did before captains Janet Libbing, get back into our game." break." 
Fencers have big test at USFA Open 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Irish swept through the compe­Northwestern, Ohio State, North Sports Writer tition, posting a 6-0 record in Carolina, and Penn in a meet wins over Michigan, Chicago, that could be a preview of the 
The Notre Dame men's and Northwestern, Lawrence, and NCAA Championships. women's fencing teams will be Purdue. Incidently, the Irish's In the men's foil division, the traveling to Evanston, Illinois, 25-2 win over Purdue brought Irish will go with sophomores this weekend to compete in the coach Mike DeChicco his 600th Jeff Piper and Ed Lefevre and United States Fencing career victory and extended the juniors Mike Trisko and Tom Association Collegiate Open, a men's winning streak to 29 Clare. 
meet that pits the top 13 teams matches. The foil squad is probably the in the nation against each The women also extended Irish's best team and anything other. their streak to 32 matches with less than a top three finish will The Irish will be competing a duplicate 6-0 record that in­not be tolerated by coach 
on a strictly team basis and the cluded a 9-7 squeaker over DeChicco, now in his 30th year meet will have no bearing on highly-touted Ohio State. as Irish head coach. their win-loss record. Although the Irish winning "There will be a lot of compe­
Nonetheless, the Irish are ex­streaks will not be on the line tition, but we should be in the cited to find out how their this weekend in Evanston, the top two or three," said fencers will stand up against competition is still important. DeChicco. top-notch competition. The men will battle against top 
see USFA page 13
In the first home meet, the teams like Illinois, 






