The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 55. 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND Ave. Apartments to open to students in January 
By SARAH DORAN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame Avenue Apart­ments have been undergoing extensive renovations since changing ownership during the summer and will be leased primarily to students beginning in January. 
A total of 44 two-bedroom units in the three buildings have been completely gutted, newly carpeted and painted and new appliances, cabinets and 
Saint Mary's proposes fee increase 

By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Student Gov­ernment proposed an increase in the student activity fee from the current rate of $20 per semester to $75 per semester to be effective next year, ac­cording to Julie McCormick, vice president for Student Af­fairs. 
The proposal will be given to 
Georgeanna Rosenbush, direc­
tor of Student Activities, to 
evaluate today and then send 
to the Senior Officers of the 
College, who are currently in 
the process of budgeting for 
next year. 
"In order to improve social 
activities on campus we need 
to increase the fees," said Mc­
Cormick. "We had problems in 
the past trying to program 
events and bring in a lot of 
quality events for students." 
Student government con­
ducted research of student ac­
tivity fees at schools compara­
ble in size and tuition all over 
the country, and found most 
had fees ranging from $50 to 
$100 a semester. 
Currently, each Saint Mary's 
student pays $20 a semester 
for Student Government fee, 
which is divided among Stu­
dent Activities Board, all resi­
dence halls, 80 clubs and or­
ganizations, Residence Hall As­
sociation and everything else 
student related, said Mc­
Cormick. 
"When it comes down to it, 
there just isn't enough to go 
around," said McCormick. 
see FEE I page 4 
plumbing fixtures have been installed. 
A new entry security system, chain link fence and additional lighting will also be put in, and the land surrounding the apartments will be re-land­scaped. 
The apartments were pur­chased by Matteo Enterprises with the aid of a substantial loan from the University of Notre Dame, according to com­pany owner and ND graduate Chris Matteo. The company also owns the Lafayette Square Complex and it is their "goal to make the Notre Dame Apart­ments as nice as Lafayette," said Matteo. 
An open house showcasing a model of the apartment is scheduled for sometime after Thanksgiving and the general population of ND invited. Mat­teo Enterprises has been pro­viding rental information to the office of Off-Campus housing and plans to target a mainly student market, but will turn no 
The Observer/ Andrea Fisk 
one away. 
Since beginning to run ad­vertisements in The Observer about a week ago, Matteo said that he had received "five or six reservations for January rental and about twenty reservations for August rental." 
The area surrounding the apartments had been charac­terized in previous years as a having an unusually high crime rate, but Matteo said this situa­tion is completely in the past. 
"Crime problems in the area surrounding the Notre Dame Apartments have escalated in the past two years with lax property management, short term leasing and high turnover," said Matteo, " but, since the apartments were va­cated during the summer, the crime element has been re­moved and the neighborhood made safe." 
The apartments will be equipped with a security system 
see NO AVE. I page 4 


Stretching those muscles 
Preparing for her afternoon workout, Pangborn Hall freshman Michele Herceg stretches out to prevent any aching muscles. 

McCarthy: SUB events have been successful 
By BECKY BARNES 
Assistant News Editor 
Student Union Board (SUB) has learned from past mistakes to make this year's program­ming a success, according to Board Manager Pat McCarthy. 
SUB came under fire last year after the failure of the Cult/Lenny Kravitz concert and a performance by comedian Howie Mandel. McCarthy said this year's successes were the result of SUB "playing to (its) strengths," citing concerts by Spin Doctors and They Might Be Giants and the mock presi­dential debate between Fred Barnes and Jack Germond of the McLaughlin Group, 
By focusing on medium-sized events in Stepan Center and scheduling them "on dates that make sense," which may be more important than the qual­ity of the performer, SUB has found a formula for successful programs, he added. 
Attention to the budget is also foremost in SUB's concerns, said Controller Carrie Dwyer. "Our object this year was to keep a really strict budget pol­icy," which entails constant reminders to commissioners to stay within their budgets. she said. 
As a result, finances are running according to plan, and the success of "The Shirt" has brought extra funds, said Dwyer. Although profits from "The Shirt" have not been ac­counted for and no decisions for their use have been made, Dwyer said they are consider­ing sponsoring an extra big event such as a concert or speaker. 
SUB underwent an early shake-up in the beginning of September with the resignation of Director of Programming Matt Bomberger. The resigna­tion resulted in a"brief period of re-staffing, which kept us busy with personnel matters instead of programming," said 
see SUB I page 4 
CLC to consider new study to improve SYR structure 
By JOHN LUCAS 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council 
(CLC) discussed ways to study and improve the current SYR format in a meeting Monday. 
A 1990-91 student govern­ment survey brought out problems with the current SYR format, said Marianne Ravry, Hall President's Council co­chair and CLC member. It cited high levels of alcohol abuse at SYRs and consumption of alco­hol in dorm hallways. 
"There is less social interac­tion and more drinking in rooms. We want to look at all the different alternatives to remedy the problem in some way," Ravry said. 
On the recommendation of Bill Kirk, assistant vice presi­dent for residence life, the CLC's committee on SYRs will begin to form discussion groups in each residence hall to evaluate the pros and cons of dorm SYRs. 
The committee agreed with Kirk in favoring the format of discussion groups over phone surveys and similar written surveys of the past to try for the most honest, balanced re­sponses from students. 
The discussion group format will have the best chance of succeeding if a "core" group of hall government members in each hall is mixed with students to add input on the discussion, said Kirk. 
Kirk stressed that the Admin­istration and the CLC have no intent to try to end dorm SYRs. "If SYRs aren't serving the purpose students want for them, we want to push for study to change it to a better event," he said. 
The committee echoed Kirk's sentiments. 
"We want to improve this as an institution rather than abol­ish it," said Student Body President Greg Butrus. 
Established by the Board of Trustees in 1977, the CLC works as an independent branch of the Hall Presidents' Council. It is composed of resi­dence hall rectors, faculty members, four student sena­tors, the student body presi­dent, an HPC representative, and Bill Kirk. 
"The CLC is the highest level of student representation on campus," according to Butrus. 
Catholic bishops continue to struggle with women's role in church 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Roman Catholic bishops Monday began a last-ditch effort to salvage their long-considered, contentious document about women even as more denun­ciations of it surged from church ranks. 
The document, which affirms the worth of women but says they cannot be priests, was questioned by some bishops at the opening session of their fall meeting here. Several challenged deletions made from earlier drafts and asked how much it was influenced by Vatican interventions. 
Declining to answer that, Bishop Joseph Imesch, head of a drafting committee, said Rome's recommendations were to the committee, and it saw 
• Catechism I page 5 
"no advantage in sharing the Roman suggestions" with other bishops. 
In the prolonged, much criti­cized effort to produce the pas­toral letter on women, Imesch, of Joliet, Ill., said: "We've managed to alienate, in one way or another, about every male and female group along the way." 
However, the document cleared an initial hurdle as ex­pected moves to eliminate it from the agenda failed to mate­rialize. 
Nine fractious years of work have gone into the document 
see CHURCH I page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
There is more to beauty than just good looks 
"Beauty and The Beast" is undoubtedly the best animated film to be released in years. The almost life-like scenes and comical lines make the movie enjoyable for adults as well as children. What was once a classic fairy Kenya Johnson tale has turned into a Assistant Accent beautiful, humorous Editor romance. 
Yet in all its glory and splendor, "Beauty and The Beast" does have its faults. Don't get me wrong-! love the movie as much as the next Dis­ney-buff. 
But in the end, when Belle and the Prince live happily ever after, I must admit-I was a little disappointed. 
It's wonderful that the spell which was cast on the prince and the people of his castle, was finally released (for it surely would have been a shame had Angela Lansbury stayed as a singing french coffee pot forever). 
And yes, it was indeed a tear-jerker when Gaston brutally stabbed The Beast before Belle could reveal her love for him(sorry for those who have not seen the movie yet). 
But why is it that The Beast, who Belle had grown to love despite his monstrous character and looks, had to turn into a beautiful prince. 
Is it so wrong to love a beast? Is it wrong to love someone different from others, from the "norm"? Belle didn't think so. 
In fact, Belle loved The Beast for the simply fact that he was different. In the beginning, she complains about her "provincial life." The townspeople complain about her being "peculiar." Belle was definitely "different from the rest." 
And although Belle is originally frightened by and angry with The Beast, it's not before too long that "there's something that wasn't there before" between the two. 
The Beast who was seen as a hideous, cruel creature, turns into a funny, cute character who anyone can love. His looks don't seem as vile and his actions don't seem as vicious. The Beast essentially, was not longer beastly. 
Belle and The Beast could have lived happily ever after, without him turning into a handsome prince. Sure, they would have had to face some obstacles along the way, but that would have only made the relationship stronger. 
"Beauty and The Beast" may only be a light­hearted cartoon, not meaning to possess this se­rious message, but let's face it, the movie does make a statement about the society in which we live. Essentially Disney expresses that The Beast had to transform into the debonair prince for a happy ending. 
Could this traditionally fairy tale have taken a twist by having Belle marry The Beast? It would have been different, perhaps even odd, but the message would have been so much stronger; that anyone can be loved. 
The best lesson we can teach our children today is that the external is not the most impor­tant characteristic. Our generation and genera­tions to come need to know that inner beauty is what is most significant, and that despite appearances. even the most monster-like character, can and should be loved. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
News Becky Barnes Bevin Kovalik  Systems Harry Zembillas  
Production Kim Massman Rich Riley  Accent Mara Divis Sarah Doran  
Sports Rich Kurz  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer ·~Tuesday, November 17,1992 
Cloudy and cold today with a 40 percent chance of rain and high in the upper 40s. Cloudy and cold Wednesday with a 30 percent chance of rain. 
TEMPERATURES 
H  L  
27  21  
55  35  
63  45  
48  30  
77  59  
36  26  

33  19  
71  50  
36  23  
38  27  
72  48  
48  43  
81  60  
63  45  
35  28  
36  30  
47  30  
44  30  
52  43  
43  28  
64  55  
50  47  
36  27  
70  52  
45  27  



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
Study: 1 in 5 Americans anti-Semitic 
•NEW YORK-One in five adult Americans hold strong prejudicial attitudes against Jews, and anti­Semitism is most prevalent among blacks and the elderly, according to survey released Monday. The survey commissioned by the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith found hostility toward Jews has declined during the past three decades. but has shifted from ethnic stereotypes to a political basis. "The good news is that fewer Americans today harbor anti-Semitic atti­tudes. The bad news is that an ugly and more dangerous element -political rather than social -has begun to take hold in the United States," said Abraham Foxman, the ADL's national director. Foxman told reporters he was especially disturbed that 31 percent of Americans in the survey believe Jews have "too much power," and that 35 percent think Jews are more loyal to Israel than to the United States. 
Hillary Clinton: active advisor 
•LITTlE ROCK, Ark.-Hillary Clinton took part in her husband's three-hour dinner session with congressional Democrats and "knew more than we did about some things," Bill Clinton said Monday. To those who have watched the Clintons operate in Arkansas, the question was 

unnecessary; Hillary Clinton is Hillary Clinton always at the table. And not just to eat. The 44-year-old lawyer is Clinton's closest adviser on political matters and an accomplished lobbyist. She headed a task force 
OF INTEREST 
•Beta 
Alpha Psi will sponsor a presentation on ethics by Deloitte and Touche tonight at 7 p.m. in the Hayes­Healy Auditorium. 

•saint 
Mary's Women's Choir fall concert will be tonight at 8 p.m. in the Little Theatre at Saint Mary's Col­lege. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING November 16 
VOLUME IN SHAHES NYSEINDEX 
216,318,820 -0.86 to 231.78 

S&P COMPOSITE 
-1.7 5 to 420.68 
DOW JONES INDUSTIUALS 
-27.29 to 3,205.74
UNCHANGED 589 

COLD -51.40 to s:c!:!.'JO oz 
SILVEit 
+5.002 to $3.752 oz 
that developed Arkansas' landmark education standards, played a key role in his gubernatorial campaigns and presidential race and championed children's issues. 
CAMPUS 
Ciccone named Welch Professor 
•NOTRE 
DAME, Ind.-F. Richard Ciccone, managing editor of the Chicago Tribune, has been named Visiting 

W. 
Harold and Martha Welch Professor of American studies at Notre Dame, according to University Provost Timothy O'Meara. A 1961 ND graduate, Ciccone will be the Welch Professor during the spring 1993 semester and will teach one class, "News in American Life." Ciccone has been managing editor of the Chicago Tribune for the past decade, directing coverage of national, international and local news. Before becoming managing editor, Ciccone served as political and metropolitan editors. He has covered presidential campaigns since 1968 and 14 national political conven­tions. Previous Welch professors at Notre Dame have included Max 'Lerner, Garry Wills, James O'Gara, Michael Novak, Barry Lopez and Wilbur Zelinsky. 


Awareness Week winners drawn 
•NOTRE 
DAME, lnd.-Three Notre Dame students won awards for attending events during the National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week, according to Mark Pogue, coordinator. Sophomore Dennis Mackin won a CD player, senior Becky Ritzert won an autographed football and freshman Kevin Minbiole received an au­tographed basketball. 

•students 
for Environmental Action will show two movies tonight at 8 p.m. in the Center For Social Concerns (CSC) auditorium. 

•Troop 
Notre Dame will meet tonight at 9 p.m. in room 219 at the Rockne Memorial to begin teaching the performance group audition routine. Auditions are Sun­day. For more information, call Ron at 283-563 or Maria at 283-3820. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
In 1558: Elizabeth I ascended the English throne. In 1800: Congress held its first session in Washington in the partially completed Capitol building. In 1869: The Suez Canal opened in Egypt, linking the Mediterranean and the Red Seas. In 1973: President Nixon a group of newspaper editors that "people have got to know whether or not their president is a crook. Well, I'm not a crook." In 1979: Iran's Ayatollah Khomeini ordered the release of 13 female and African-American hostages held at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran. In 1991: A human rights group reported that the United States and its allies caused needless civilian deaths during the Persian Gulf War. 
tuesday, November 17, 1992 
BOG discusses new study days proposal 
By MEGAN BRUCHAS News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governors (BOG) reviewed a proposal for a student review day before final exams during a meeting Monday. 
The suggestion had been brought up by Saint Mary's students at previous meetings with several ideas for imple­mentation. For example, classes could be cancelled on the Thursday and Friday be­fore exam week and professors could then be restricted on giving tests or assigning papers due that week. 
New this semester, Notre Dame has two days ·of review. 
Even though the issue is still undecided at Saint Mary's, stu­dents and faculty expressed their views on it. 
"Students are overworked, it sounds like a good idea," said Andrew Cutrofello, philosophy professor. Other professors and administrators said that this issue would lower the standard of college students. 
The students also have mixed views on the situation. "I would be against having two days off if it cut into my break," said Kali Koester, freshman. 
"lt depends on the person. If some are given time they would put it off longer, on the other hand, those that have a heavy class load would use the extra time," said Lesley Imbur, freshman. 
Even if the administration does not support the proposal, the concern from the students will bring attention to the issue, said the board members. 
In other business: 
•The board is submitting a proposal to the director of stu­dent activities and the Saint Mary's library for a smoke free library. A survey of 300 students showed that 56 per­cent of the students wanted the facility to be smoke free. 
After Thanksgiving Break the board plans to redo the survey in order to see if dorms, student centers, and general public areas should also be consid­ered. 
• On Dec. 4, the senior class will hold a senior formal. This will be the first dance on the Saint Mary's campus that will provide wine and beer for the 
students. Seniors will receive 
three drink tickets for them_ selves and three for their dates. 
• A Christmas raffle, movies, plays, present wrapping parties and ornament donations are some possible ideas for Christmas activities next month. 
~--~------~------~~~~~--------------,
join little Profe;sor !look Center for 
An Evening with 
Father Hesburgh & FatherJoyce ofthe University i ofNotre Dame 
A.~ 
~~ 
Delight in the adventures they've captured in their just released book 
TRAVELS WITH TED&NED 
they'll be signing copies between 
7:00 & 9:00pm • Tuesday, November 17th 1!1¥o Discount on Tmrels with Ted& NBITucsday nigh~ November 17 
Little Professor Book Center 
Ironwood Plaza North • State Road 23 at Ironwood • South Bend 277-4488 • Mon.-Sat.: I 0:00-9:00 • Sunday: 10:()(}-5:00 
Back by popular demand... 
BEAT THE CLOCK TUESDAY! 
5:00p.m., 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday 
Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza is the time you call! 
Free Delivery 
271--1177 
The Observer 
By THERESA ALEMAN News Writer 
In recognition of the statistic that one in every 250 people has AIDS or carries the HIV virus, student government will present an AIDS awareness clinic today at Theodore's from 10-3 p.m., said Frank Flynn, student government special projects coordinator. 
Registered nurses Beth Kellog from the Board of Health and Susan Kraska with Infection Control at Memorial Hospital will discuss the procedures involved in AIDS testing and "help heighten general aware­ness about the virus, " accord­ing to Flynn. 
The purpose of the clinic, said 
page 3 
Flynn, is to make students aware of the realities and dangers of AIDS. The nurses who will speak work with AIDS patients every day and will help people understand the pro­cesses involved in AIDS detec­tion. 
"Young people need to realize that they are not invincible," said Flynn. This clinic will hopefully make students aware of their own susceptibility to the virus, he added. 
"It will only take about 5-10 minutes to take in this infor­mation. It needs to be made part of our everyday thinking," he said. 
Student government expects a few hundred students to attend the clinic. 
Clinton: Creating jobs to be top priority 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) ­President-elect Clinton and Democratic congressional lead­ers promised a "new era" of action on Monday and said ere­ating jobs and restoring Allier­ica's economic power would be their top priorities. 
"I will be in a hurry," Clinton 
said at a joint news conference with Democratic lawmakers who pledged a new alliance with the White House after 12 years of divided government. 
"Gridlock is over and coop­eration and teamwork have begun," said House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt. 
Clinton declared an end to "the Cold War between the Congress and the White House" and promised, "Pennsylvania Avenue will run both ways again." 
The president-elect, who is making his first post-election trip to Washington later this week, offered no specifics as to what he would press for first in the new Democratic regime. 
"I can't say for sure which will 
1992·93 SEASON ~ 
NOIRE DAMECOMMUNICATION (!15. Ja1 
&THEATRE P R E S E N T S lheatre 
GroHesco 
IN THEIR ZANY COMEDY 
FROM THE 
TO. 
A Lecture By 
jJJ' 
RESERVED SEATS: $7 STUDENT &SE~10R CITIZEN DISCOUNTS ARE AVAILABLE WED., THt;RS. AND Sl:N. TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE LA FORTUNE TICKET OFFICE. MasierCard and Visa orders call: 239-8128 
wed  nov 18  8:10pm  
thurs  nov 19  8:10pm  
frj  nov 20  8:10pm  
sat  nov 21  8:10pm  
sun  nov 22  3:10pm  

and what won't pass within 100 days," Clinton said. "''ll just work as hard as I can and get as much done as quickly as I can." 
Clinton said that during his first meeting with congressional leaders -a three-hour dinner Sunday night -all hands agreed that "creating jobs, raising incomes, getting our economy moving again, and the long-term competitive strength of the American economy" was the No. 1 objective. 

American Heart Association 
WE'RE FIGHTII\IG FOR YO.JR LIFE 
ST.IDWARD'S 
HALL FOHUM 
Professor Fernand Dutile 
Acting Dean, ND Law School 
speaks on 
"HOW TO GET INTO A GOOD LAW SCHOOL" 
TONIGHT 
7:00 p.m. 
at St. Edward's Hall 
- ----­--------·-----­-­ --­ ---­ --­ -----------------­ 
~  
page 4  The Observer  Tuesday,November 17,1992  

SECURITY BEAT 


Church 
continued from page 1 and five hours of discussion of it were scheduled Tuesday and 
ND Ave. 
continued from page 1 
that requires visitors to buzz their guests in order to gain entry into the apartment building, according to Matteo. A chain link fence and bright lighting will also be installed 
Women 
continued from page 1 
2000 years "incredible." 
But Gremillion said that Jesus entered the world at a time when males dominated society. "That no longer holds true in today's culture." 
Since there are no solid theo­logical or biblical reasons against the ordination of women, according to McBrien, "the question is 'Why not?'" 
Mcinerny argued against applying modern secular no­tions to the church. While re­stricting a woman's involve­ment would be unfair in an­other organization, he said, the Catholic Church is a unique in­stitution. 
But the move makes practical sense for the Catholic Church, since it would increase the number of priests. "There are enough women who can be pastorally effective," McBrien said. 
Restricting the ordination of women keeps them out of the decision-making roles within the church, according to Coli. 

Wednesday at the four-day meeting of about 275 bishops from across the country. 
"Anything can happen to it," said Richard Daw, head of the bishops' media relations office. 
around the perimeter of the building's parking lots. In addi­tion, security personnel will also be present in the evenings. 
"We have seen a lot less crime since the end of the summer, and as we patrol down Notre Dame Avenue, we have noticed a definite improvement,n said Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame security. 
"The area is as safe as any student living complex, espe­cially since the dangerous ele­ment that lived there in the past two years has been removed," Rakow said. "It sounds like their ideas for safety are more than ample. Chris Matteo is very open to things and cooperative safety-wise. n 
Matteo Enterprises has also purchased five other duplex homes in the area that have ei-
SUB 
continued from page 1 
McCarthy. 
Bomberger was replaced by Ellen Zahren, who said it was difficult coming in late and or­ganizing the programming de­partment. But she cited the success of this year's pro­gramming to date and expects the same for next semester. 
McCarthy and Bomberger outlined some goals for SUB at the end of last semester includ­ing initiating a speaker series, coordinating events with other campus groups, and using the infrastructure of SUB to help other groups program events. 
ther been renovated or are in the process of being renovated, said Matteo. Two of these five are leased for January occu­pancy with students again being the primary target of the market, said Matteo. 
The new ownership and sub­sequent renovation of the apartments has been extremely well-received by neighbors in the area, according to Larry 
McCarthy said the speaker series, of which the mock presidential debate was a part, is going well under the direc­tion of Ideas and Issues com­missioner Dan Alesia. 
He also referred to the "Ethics in Public Life" series that student government is sponsoring as a sign of increas­ing attention to speakers. 
SUB is also co-sponsoring the "Viva" cultural arts series with Student Activities, but this series is the only project of its kind this semester, said Mc­Carthy. "I think we're going to do more of it, but it hasn't re­ally gotten off the ground," he added. 
Time restrictions have also 
Zeiser, property manager. He added that it has prompted others to remodel their properties also. 
"With the level of investment that we have in the properties of this neighborhood, I think it is evident that we are not only interested with the students, but involved in and committed to the neighborhood," said Zeiser. 
prevented the establishment of a program to help other groups, said McCarthy. "We've been so overwhelmed doing our own projects that it has caused us to keep focused on our own assignments," he added. McCarthy had not been in­volved with SUB before this year, but he said his lack of ex­perience has not been a handi­cap. "Coming in with a fresh perspective has been helpful," he said. SUB is trying to provide "balanced" programming which "appeals to a wide range of 
people," he concluded, and so far the "big events have gone very well." 
Fee 
continued from page 1 
She also made the distinction 
between the Student Govern­
ment fee and the Student Com­
prehensive fee which pays for 
special events at Moreau Center 
for the Arts and O'Laughlin 
Auditorium and athletic events. 
"I think a lot of students are 
confused about the differences 
in the fees," she said. "A lot of students think that Student Government receives money from the Comprehensive fee, but we don't." 
McCormick said that she does not believe that students will view the increase in the fee negatively. "I would like to think that students would want better events and more planned for them," she said. 
Student Government plans to inform students if the increase is approved by the senior offi­cers. 
She hopes for a renewed priesthood into which women could enter. 
Coli cautioned that this is just the beginning for women in the Church of England, not a solu­tion to the problem. Women will have more difficulty getting ministry or parish positions right away, she said. 
"We're going to have women priests. It's only a matter of time," said McBrien. 
EARN $2,000 + FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! 
North America's #l Student Tour Operator seeking motivated students and organizations as campus representatives promoting CanCLII1 or Datona Beach! 
Call 1--800--365--4654 
Happy218 
Da~n! 
Don't Drink 8 Drive! 
Love, 
Beth 
SJenny 
Career opportunities at J.P. Morgan 
lnterl'iews for Notre Dame seniors intere."tled in Corporate Finance will be lwld in Chicago on Friday, .January 8, 1993 
Pll'WW ...ubmil a Cot'l~r lt>ller and rl'.'>llltu> byNm,ember 20 lo: Alice /Udwrdson Fi..,her 60 Wall Stn>et ./.R Morglm & Co. lncorporatnl New JiJrk, NY 10260-0060 
JPMorgan 
.J.P. Mor!-(Uil is an I'IJUnl opportunity t~mployer 
Tuesday,November 17,1992 
The Observer 
Bishops unveil mo ern catechism 
PARIS (AP) -The Roman 
Catholic Church took a step 
Monday to bring doctrine into 
line with modern life, unveiling 
a new catechism that maintains 
bans on divorce and abortion 
but urges compassion for ho­
mosexuals and condemns low 
wages as theft. 
The first catechism of the Catholic Church in 426 years contains no new sins and ab­solves none of the old ones, though it in some instances casts a more tolerant eye on the sinners. 
In a retrenchment of orthodox positions bound to disappoint many of the world's 900 million Catholics, divorce and abortion remain forbidden sins. The only contraception accepted by the church is natural. 
"We have simply tried to take up the commandments again on how a Christian can conduct his life today," said Jean Honore, bishop of Tours and the catechism's French editor. 
Woman priests -approved last week by the Church of England -are unacceptable, since Christ's 12 Apostles, whom priests represent, were all males. 
The catechism describes 
homosexual acts as 
"intrinsically dissolute, contrary 
to natural law," and instructs 
homosexuals to practice 
chastity. 
But since most homosexuals 
do not willingly choose their 
lifestyle they "must be wel­
comed with respect, compas­
sion and delicacy," it says. 
"One must avoid all unjust 
discrimination against them." 
The catechism spurred in­tense debate among the 3,000 bishops who submitted some 24,000 amendments to the six­year project. It is rooted in the Ten Commandments, with some up-to-date twists. The Seventh Commandment-Thou Shalt Not Steal -is interpreted as a call for economic and social justice. 
"Any manner of taking and unjustly holding the property of another, even if it does not specifically contradict civil law, is contrary to the Seventh Commandment," the catechism says. 
Richer nations are urged to welcome poor immigrants, price-gouging and low wages 
A LECTURE BY JUDGE STEPHEN M. SCHWEBEL INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE THE HAGUE ON TilE WORK OF THE INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE 
TUESDAY,NOVEMBER17 4:00P.M. ROOM 220 -LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 
are considered forms of steal­
ing, and the handicapped have 
a right to work. 
Forging checks is sinful, as is 
badly performed work. Going 
on strike is a moral right, un­
less accompanied by violence. 
The church's once-sacrosanct 
stance on private property has 
been modified to state that the 
Earth is the heritage of all 
mankind. 
Guidelines on sexual behavior fall broadly under the Sixth Commandment -Thou Shalt Not Commit Adultery. Apart from greater tolerance for ho­mosexuals, the catechism broke little new ground. Sexual union outside marriage remains forbidden. 
"Among the sins gravely contrary to chastity, one must cite masturbation, fornication, pornography and homosexual practices," the catechism says. "Adultery and divorce, polygamy and free sexual union are grave offenses to the dignity of marriage." 
Under the Fifth Command­ment -Thou Shalt Not Kill ­the catechism does not rule out a state's right to impose the death penalty. 
Regarding abortion, the cat­echism says that "human life must be protected in an abso­lute manner from the moment of conception." 
MAPLE LANE BARBER SHOP ! 
HOURS: MON-FRI 8:00-5:30: SAT 8:00-3:00: 2112 South Bend Avenue : Appointments if desired : 

I 
Serving tlie 7{gtre tJJame , community for over 30 years ' 

@ze; ~sf'x~ q;tznle/ 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
~ 

Paul Tierney '64 
~~anaging the World Army·" 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 
7:30 PM, 155 DEBARTOLO 
SAN'A, Yemen (AP) -A ship crowded with 2,500 Somali refugees limped into a remote Yemeni port Monday, where they received their first food and water in several days but were forbidden to go ashore. 
There was no immediate confirmation of reports that as many as 100 people might have died during the ship's harrowing six-day, 1,200-mile voyage from Somalia with little or no food or water. 
Yemeni officials ordered the Samaa-1 to take its passengers on from Mukalla to Yemen's main port, Aden, some 300 miles to the southwest, where 
U.N. workers were putting up tents and digging latrines on the beach for the refugees. The authorities said Mukalla was 
page 5 
not equipped to handle the So­malis. 
U.N. officials in Geneva said the refugee ship might stay at Mukalla for several days. But French naval officials in Paris said the Samaa-1 sailed Monday night and was accompanied by the French corvette Commandant Ducuing, which arrived from Djibouti with emergency food, water and medicine. They said the Saama's captain had not asked for any of the French supplies. 
The refugees reportedly were given fish, flour and milk from Mukalla. 
About 100 of them were re­ported to be very sick, said Syl­vana Foa, a spokeswoman for the U.N. refugee agency in Geneva, which provides aid for Somalis in Yemen. 

Michael, You finally made it! 
Happy 21st! Lave, Mom, Dad, Marc& Shanna 

·'~~.:~~s~;;~::N ({f) 
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP. INC. • Sales • Service • Bike Stora_9e and Packaging 
across from Bob Evans 
135 DIXIE WAY SOUTH 3835 LINCOLNWAY EAST SOUTH BEND. IN 46637 MISHAWAKA. IN 46544 (219)277-8866 (219)259-4862 ROSELAND 

~---~~----------~---------------------­
Business 
page 6 Tuesday, November 17, 1992 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
•wASHINGTON ..·.·••·•·•·••·· A1l Inctea~~.ig. >
manufacturing helped push the nation .·· production 0.3 percf:lnt higher in October after outpl;tt slumped through much of the summer, the government said today.·. pte ,rise h1 outpu.t at. ta(:tm:te~l 1 fni and utilities was only tbe se~;:ond in>ffve according to the Federal Reserve. It slipped 0.2 percent in September and 0/3 percent in August· PrOduction rose in Juty andJell in June. The October increase was in line with what economists expected iu advance, but the Fed noted that "much of the ... gain reflected a significant hike in light truck assemblies.,; Outside. of motor vehicles and parts. production rose just 0!1 percent. Despl~~ them()$$ recent gain,.Jndustl'i~:l production last month was just 0.6 percent.higher than a year.. ago•.. refi~¢tingthe .econ<>my's struggle t~ shake 
off the recession. 
Inventories steady while sales rise 
•WASHINGTON ~Business sales p~fked 
up in September and the backlog of unsold inventories was unchanged; th!'f governme'nt said todaY: in a interpreted as a good sign for the e~:>onomy. The L)} percent rise in business sales to a se~onally a.djust~<i $559.9 billion was the biggest since February, tne Commerce Department said. lt reversed a 1.3 percent drop in August. Sales had increase(! strongly in both June and July.J\k;on9rpis~ said th~ • . . .. . · steady inventories and rising sales, ifit was n•Jaint<tined,
· 
would be a favorable developm~nt; presaging increased activity at factories and eventually new hiring. The mix of inventories and sales .............~.. ratio down to L$0 iniSet•tetilbt:u; That means it \V()nld tak(f.,.J.t~(j m<•.~:r.ltll,s;J•o inventories at the current sales pace. ·· 
NEW YORK (AP) ­Angry consumers, an aggressive telephone company and the hot breath of congressional regulation have sent a shiver of panic through the once-cozy credit card business, and card­holders are starting to reap some limited benefits. 
Less expensive credit cards have been popping as the industry rewrites its pricing structure in the face of new competition. After a decade of stagnation, card rates are coming down, having fallen 1 percentage point to an average 17.95 percent nationwide, according to Ram Research Inc., a credit card research group in Frederick, Md. 
In a bid to lure new cardholders and crank up the charge volume, card issuers also are offering new incentives for free airline trips, discounts on hotels and even money off of a new car. 
'The good news is the market has become more competitive than it was five years ago," said Steven Brobeck, executive director for Consumers Federation of 
Growth of consumer debt 
(Consumer credit. total) $764.9 
$800 
In billions 
$770.3 
700 of dollars 
600 $533
Credit card industry 
Credit cardholders are start1ng to reap some limited benefits as the industry rewrites 1tg pnc1ng structure ~~ the face of 


new compet1t1on. Credit card market 
200
$ In billions of dollars 
180  
160  
140  
120  
100  
80  
60  
40  
20  &4.1  
0  .....  
1970  1975  1980  

·oata not available for Interest payment 
AP
sources Fed~r<ll Res€-rve Board <1nd The Boston Company Econom1cAdv1sors. Inc 
America, a Washington, bankruptcy. D.C.-based advocacy This has been a trend group. slow in the making, but 
The options facing con-events in the last year sumers are numerous: have opened up a wide The top 100 card issuers range of options for are offering more than plastic users. The new 500 credit card rate com-GM Card, introduced by binations, according to a General Motors Corp. in recent report from September, rewards Salomon Bros. Inc. frequent card users with 
rebates that can be 
Even a poor credit applied to the purchase history doesn't disqualify of most new GM cars. someone from the hotly All heavy-hitting credit competitive credit card card companies market: Special Citicorp, Chase "secured" cards are Manhattan Corp., being pitched to American Express survivors of personal Optima Card, and the 
Russia draws up anti-crisis; fuel sales go to hard currency 
MOSCOW (AP) -President Boris Yeltsin and his Cabinet on Monday completed an "anti-crisis plan" to get Russia through the winter, but rejected opposition demands to freeze prices and slow reforms. 
The government also decided to charge world prices for oil, gas and other natural resources to former Soviet republics that no longer use the ruble, chief economic spokesman Alexei Ulyukayev told a news conference. 
"This is what we have in mind: not to subsidize the economies of neighboring states," Ulyukayev said. 
Ulyukayev's remarks followed a Cabinet meeting to complete the government's four-month plan and a draft budget for 1993. The program, to be submitted to lawmakers next week, will shore up Russian industries through subsi­dies and tax breaks, as well as tariffs on some foreign imports, he said. 
Russia's military budget will stay roughly at the same level next year. The government will spend less on weapons production, but this savings has been offset by housing and relocation costs for troops returning from eastern Europe and the Baltic states, Ulyukayev said. 
Military spending this year accounted for $4.2 billion, or 16 percent of Russia's budget. 
Yeltsin's government has faced pressure from the increasingly powerful Civic Union parliamentary bloc to slow reforms. Civic Union, which includes factory managers and key figures such as Vice Presi­dent Alexander Rutskoi, has demanded a freeze on prices and wages -steps that Yeltsin rejected last week. 
Ulyukayev said Civic Union Jacks a practical plan for improving Russia's economy. 
The demand for world prices from nations that have left the "ruble zone" follows Ukraine's move last week to ban the Russian ruble in the second-most populous former 
France, Britain quarrel over EC-US farm subsidies 
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) ­Two days before European and American negotiators try to avert a trade war, France quarreled with Britain on Mon­day over a deal with the United States that reportedly would further cut farm subsidies. 
But after three hours of meetings, the agriculture min­isters of the European Com­munity urged their negotiators to "go out and make a success" of the EC-U.S. trade talks scheduled for Wednesday in Washington. 
British Agriculture Minister John Gummer said the 12 farm ministers called for resolution "as rapidly as possible" with the United States. 
The United States claims EC subsidies cost American farm­ers more than $1 billion and wants deep subsidy cuts. France, the EC's biggest farm producer, does not want the bloc to yield to the American demands. 
Washington has threatened to impose $300 million in punitive tariffs on French white wines and other EC products if no deal is reached by Dec. 5. That has raised fears of a trade war that could further weaken the economies on both sides of the Atlantic. 
Earlier Monday, French diplomats released a document they said showed EC negotia­tors would go beyond agreed­upon EC subsidy cuts and let chunks of farm land be idled. They said that was unaccept­able to the bloc's 9 million farmers. 
But later, diplomats said French Agriculture Minister Jean-Pierre Soisson was iso­
lated in his arguments. "Nobody said, 'Yes. I agree with the French figures,'" said David Curry, Britain's agriculture minister. 
In Paris, Dominique Strauss­Kahn, France's foreign trade minister. said, "France doesn't want French farmers who have already suffered from the (EC's) reform to suffer even more." 
If a deal is struck with Wash­ington that goes beyond the EC reform package, he said, "those who push us to sign (the accord) will have to bear the consequences." 
Discover Card -have overhauled their rates this year in a bid to prevent customer defec­tions to the upstarts. analysts say. 
"The fact is, the cards offered by nonbank companies tend to be more attractive than those offered by commercial banks," said Brobeck. 
Examine credit card growth trends and there's little wonder why nonbanking companies set their sights on the business. 
Total credit card debt outstanding grew from $4.1 billion in 1970 to $194.1 billion in 1991. Last year. interest pay­ments on credit cards 
totaled  $33  billion,  
surpassing  interest  
payments  on  auto  or  

other consumer installment loans for the first time in history, according to a study by The Boston Company Economic Advisors. 
Greater accessibility of cards, convenience, the runup of household spending habits in the 1980s and lower minimum payments are key trends behind that growth, the economic research company said. 
HUD dispute to be heard by Supreme Court 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Supreme Court today agreed to resolve a dispute over the fed­eral government's effort to hold down the subsidies it pays to owners of low-income housing. 
The court voted to review a ruling that said a new method for setting annual rent in­creases violated the govern­ment's long-term contracts with the project owners. 
The Department of Housing and Urban Development started a low-income housing program in 1974 in which it signed contracts with private developers and landlords to provide housing at subsidized rates. 
HUD raised the subsidies, at least once a year, according to a regional formula. 
In the early 1980s, HUD de­cided some of the increases were too high and began limit­ing some increases based on its studies of local non-subsidized rents. 
Housing project owners sued, and in 1988 the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals barred HUD from using those studies to limit rent subsidies. The Supreme Court previously let that ruling stand. 
Congress revised the housing law in 1989 to let HUD use the studies of non-subsidized housing to limit subsidy in­creases. 
About 100 housing project owners challenged the new law, and federal courts in Los Angeles and Seattle, Wash., declared it unconstitutional. 
.---------------------------------------------------------------­
Viewpoint 
----------------~----------------­
Tuesday, November 17,1992 

The Observer 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor ...•...........•.• Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager ...•.......... Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....••.....•........ Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ...••..•••.••.•..•...... David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Alumni Association continues 'germination' process 
The quickest way to answer scattered throughout the United During 1991, the Alumni alumnus/alumna, after he/she that question is to immediately States in every state of the Joseph I. O'Neill Ill Association, through its local leaves the University, to eliminate the most widely held union {except North Dakota!) The Alumni Column clubs, sponsored 2,291 events continue to inquire, to nurture, misconception-that the and in many foreign countries attracting 123,056 alumni, and to enhance faith and belief Alumni Association is the from Moscow to Mexico City, respected faculty teaching their parents, and friends. and to foster an atmosphere of money-raising arm of the from Rome to Tokyo. favorite subjects. This record achievement was love and respect that was University or a recruiting arm The purpose of the club is to Another continuing education recognized recently by CASE, instilled in all of us while at the of the athletic department. We continue that special program which supports the the Council for Advancement University. are, of course, neither. relationship between student mission of Notre Dame is the and Support of Education, with We have become more than 
The Alumni Association is a and University that was series of on-campus the Grand Gold Medal as the ever a reflection of Notre Dame service organization dedicated germinated while on campus. conferences emphasizing most outstanding alumni today. A high concern for social to advancing the interests of Clubs help to recreate one's professional ethics in the organization in the country. justice and a deep love of alumni and their University experiences at Notre Dame: the medical and legal fields. This award followed successive inquiry are the very thrusts that through a commitment to camaraderie, the spiritual Our satellite teleconferences years where we won two gold the Alumni Association is excellence in a lifelong awakenings, the social on marriage and family issues and two bronze medals. making. relationship. concerns-and to make them The Alumni Association, as its
are extremely popular and 
That relationship may take an integral part of the alumnus' widely praised. Our grief purpose and goal, should try to I would encourage each and many forms. Alumni life. recovery program has been a reflect the University itself. every member of the Notre participation at a reunion is a Just in the last year the source of healing and Under the leadership of Chuck Dame community to search out given, but many more alumni Alumni Association sponsored inspiration for alumni and Lennon, the Association has their local club throughout their participate in other less known Humanitarian Week students who have experienced made great strides to reflect the career at Notre Dame and activities such as continuing commemorating the University's a death or divorce. aims of Notre Dame, while afterward to become a part of education programs, sesquicentennial where Through SARG, the Student emphasizing the unique this exciting dynamic. community service projects, hundreds of alumni volunteered cultures that exist here: a place
Alumni Relations Group, we social get-togethers and over 5,000 hours of service to sponsor extern programs of inquiry firmly established on Joseph /. O'Neill III (Class of student send-offs. their communities. Our "Great providing a student with on-the­a foundation of beliefs 1967) is the president of the The heart of the Alumni Teachers Program" is a series job experience under the cultivated by a strong sense of National Alumni Board of Association is the local club. of audio and video cassettes sponsorship of an alumnus. community. Directors and currently resides There are 219 local clubs featuring the school's most Our purpose is to allow the in Midland, TX 
Reader says, 'No, we should not abolish the electoral college' 
Dear Editor: who lacked a majority in any popular winner in that state. extralegal process which is the popular vote contest; the 
For two centuries our nation other part of the country. This is ensured because the chiefly the product of party electors can break their has been well served by the Similarly, a candidate who established parties offer slates practices. pledges; and a presidential current system for selecting a carried a single large state by of electors. Direct election, contest can be decided in the chief executive. an overwhelming margin and however, invites creation of a The President is elected by House of Representatives. 
Moreover, in 1977 the Senate lost by a slim margin in every multitude of single parties that the presidential electors chosen rejected a proposal to scrap the other state could still win the could result in the kind of par­by voters in each state. But the The framers of the Consitu­Electoral College in favor of di­election. liamentary chaos and division electors have long since tion wisely built into our Consti­rect popular election of the The electoral college prevents that paralyzed European become rubber stamps for their tution principles of federalism, President. Nonetheless, the folly this unseemly anomaly of a democracies after World War II. parties, reflecting the popular separation of powers, and a is still proposed and debated. regional president. Because the Direct election schemes also election results in their states. geographical balance to pre­
In terms of fairness, direct states are the focus of the provide for run-off elections vent rule by the tyrannical ma­election would deprive small electoral process, a presidential when no candidate wins as Technically, the President is jorities and powerful regional states of their equalizing force candidate is far less likely to much as 40 percent. This elected by the presidential concentrations. in presidential elections. Over become the captive of a single means a President could win electors chosen by voters in half of the states would lose in­populous state of region. the election with the support of each state. The electoral college has fluence, while the rest would In practicle terms, direct a mere 40 percent of the public. worked marvelouslly as a key 
feature of the Constitution's
add to their already dominant election also would threaten a In strictly formal terms, the The electoral college system 
protective umbrella. No, we
power. political system that would be President is elected in accord suffers several shortcomings. 
should not abolish the electoralDuring the 1977 debates on hard to replace. Under the with the Constitution's provi­The most serious are that: in college.
this issue, it was claculated party system fostered by the sions for the electoral college can produce a President who 
Tony Russell
that, in the extremem, two electoral college, a state's elec­system. Actually, the President has won a majoirty of the elec­
Zahm Hall 
states could elect a President toral votes go as a unit to the is chosen through a largely toral votes even though losing 
Nov. 15, 1992 
ESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
NOaJ, §AMANlHA, I /A/ANT
alt'R£ IN tUCJ<! 
YOU TO~ 6XJP AS 60£1/, THANKS. A8f/J.Cff RJU­
(X}{)/.PYaJ
OK4Yf YCVRPAWYHASA O'BA81t-S! 
toOI<AFTW< ANPtu8HAV/3 70 5H{¥(J H/3RFOR
Ffjt.(j M1561VIN65 ABOUT,11~ 
'Aways do right. This will 
OH, 80'1; 
HIM H/3 CAN 7RIJST · A IA/HIU?
OH,BOY,. 
\ 
gratify some people, and astonish the rest.' 
05, aJT!Tf ""­
Mark Twain 
Listen to the river, submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint
page a Tuesday, November 17. 1992 
ND for the Homeless 8 
Feed our children well 
Editor's note: One page in Viewpoint will be dedicated to "ND for the Homeless Week 1992" each day this week. The following letter comes from Healthy Mothers, Healthy Babies of St. Joseph County, Indiana. 
"If every citizen in the state of Florida became poor, the president would declare a na­tional disaster. Yet 12 million children in our rich land go without the basic amenities of life -more than the total popu­lation of Illinois, Pennsylvania, or Florida," writes Marian Wright Edelman. President of Children's Defense Fund. It is time, she believes, to attack child poverty with even "a pit­tance of the zeal and shared commitment we now apply to digging out after a devastating hurricane or earthquake." 
The effects of growing up poor can last a lifetime. Poor children are more likely to have health and nutritional problems, to live in substandard housing or be homeless, miss pre-school education, to lack nurturing day care. The result? Children growing up in poverty are far more likely to have weak basic academic skills and to become parents too early ­two top predictors of poverty for the next generation. 
Childhood poverty hurts the entire nation. If our economy is to thrive in the coming years, it is important that families be­come self-sufficient and chil­dren grow up to be contributing members of society. The nation must strengthen the economic foundation for families so that they can provide a nurturing environment for their children. 
What is poverty? According to the federal guideline, in 1990 a family was considered poor if its annual income was less than $8,420 for a family of two, less than $12,700 for a family of four. By definition, these fami­lies find themselves unable to meet all their basic needs. In reality, even those families with an income at or above the offi­cial poverty threshold are not guaranteed adequate food, shelter, clothing, transportation, health care, and other essentials. 
The increase of child poverty over the past decade can be at­tributed to a number of causes, including: 
Falling earnings. In 1979 full-time, year-round work pay­ing minimum wage lifted a family of three out of poverty. Today's minimum wage leaves the same family 20 percent un­der poverty level. 
More female-headed fami­lies. Children living with only their mothers are more likely to be poor. In 1959, 23 percent of all poor families were headed by women; in 1989, that num­ber had risen to 52 percent. More than one half the children born today will spend part of their childhood in a one-parent home. 
Inadequate education and job training. Today, adequate skills, plus a high school or even college diploma are needed to obtain a job above the poverty level, yet the rate of high school graduates has barely increased in the last 20 years. 
Inadequate national an­tipoverty efforts. In 1979, nearly one in five families with children escaped poverty with the help of government cash assistance. By 1987, such pro­grams saved only one in 10 families. 
Minimal job training in­vestments. Federal job training programs reach only a fraction of their target populations ­JTPA (Job Training Partnership Act) serves less than 5 percent of those eligible; the Job Corps serves an estimated one in seven eligible youths; and state JOBS programs will reach only a small fraction of all welfare recipients who want education, training, or employment services. 
Declining unemployment in­surance. As the economy weakens, unemployment in­surance becomes even more important in protecting fam_ilies from poverty when jobs are lost through no fault of the workers. Yet fewer are receiving benefits. In 1980, half of all unemployed workers received compensation; by 1990, only slightly more than one-third did. 
Extremely low AFDC bene­fits. Aid to Families with De­pendent Children (AFDC) was designed to be a safety net for children deprived of parental support due to death, illness, incapacity, or absence of a par­ent. Grants have always been below poverty line, but have eroded even further in the last 20 years. In 1990 the median state's maximum AFDC pay­ment reached a family of three to only 45 percent of federal poverty level, down from 71 percent in 1970. 
Inadequate food stamp aid for families with children. Food stamp benefits for poor families remain too low to eliminate hunger and meet basic nutritional needs. Current studies suggest that millions of American children are hungry and in need of expanded food assistance. Yet during the 1980s, when poverty rates were rising along with housing and heating costs, food assistance programs were cut deeply, and only partially restored towards the end of the decade. 
Weak child support en­forcement. In 1988, 9.4 million mothers were living without their children's fathers. Only 51 percent had child support awards, and only 26 percent received their full child support in the previous year. 
Dwindling social security payments to children. In recent decades, a smaller and smaller proportion of social security dollars went to children -from 15 percent in 1950 to only 5 percent in 1987. 
If our nation expects to lead the world, we simply cannot allow our children to go without the food, shelter, clothing, edu­cation and health care they so desperately need. 

Photo courtesy of Jim Hubbard and ND Student Government 
For many homeless children, games have given way to grim reality. 
Help restore dignity to homeless 
Dear Editor, 
Two summers ago, I ventured into a Jersey City, NJ homeless shelter for an eight week service project. I arrived with a naive and self-righteous vision of grandeur: I would turn some lives around. Eight weeks later, I fully realized that the problem of homelessness our country faces is not at all what I had perceived, but runs much deeper than some people falling on hard times. 
Shelters, welfare, and food stamps, once means of suste­nance in times of trouble, are now ways of life for urban America. To defy the way of life that generations have handed down, to somehow find the motivation and dignity that is slowly chiseled away with each trip to the cold welfare office, takes more courage than most people can muster up. Shelters are familiar and free of charge, unskilled labor will earn less than the certain check, a child is on the way, and you have been considered good for nothing so often that you now believe it. 
Needless to say, I was rather powerless against this hope­lessly dismal institution. How­ever. I recognized that the root of the problem is this denial of dignity, and I set out to restore some of this lost self-worth to the homeless residents. My deeds were small: I cooked them rather elaborate and tasty meals when the other staff opted for hot dogs: I conversed with them as peers, not as undignified subordinates: and, I smiled and spoke with respect. 
"The Homeless" are often spoken of not as human beings, but as some unique and lesser class of mankind. I beg to differ, for I now have some understanding, however super­ficial, of where they are coming from. I truly hope that others will seek opportunities to un­derstand the situation and to help restore this lost dignity to the homeless. 
Patty Moran Farley Hall Summer Service Project 1991 

Editor's Note: The following was written by a resident ofthe South Bend Center for the Homeless: 
Et-:mal Pain 
To see the blood, to feel the pain; 
To hear my $oul,. scream out your name. 
To cut so deep. to slice so clean; 
To. know the fear, rve never seen. 
To be in love, to know no hate; 
To take it back. is 
much too late. 
To have no hope, to be so lost; 
To not go back. for any cost. 
To actso calm. to end this life; 
To do so much, with just one knife. 
To fear no more. to pass the ache; 
To numb the senses, my life I take. 
Michelle Oler 
NO For The Homeless Week 1992 
Tuesday, November 17 
MOVIES 
Cushing Auditorium 7:30p.m. Down and Out in America 
8:30 p.m. Shooting Back Both lhese films are short doc1111entaries. Oown 111111 OUt il An1tJt'ica Mldresses homelessness generally; Shooting B.w:kshoWs homelessness lll'oiUIIhe eves ol clildren. 
.-----------------------~-----~--------------~-----~---------------------­
Accent 
Tuesday, November 17, 1992 page 9 
Premiere recognition 
Saint Mary's sophomore honored among 32 Indiana college students 
By BETH NESSNER 
Accent Writer 
"You have brains in your head. You have feet in your shoes. You can steer yourself in any direction you choose. And you know what you know. And you are the one who'll decide where to go." Dr. Seuss said it best when encouraging us to find success that lies within us. We do have the ability to choose our destiny and we have the power to achieve our dreams. Saint Mary's sophomore Kimberly Gropp is living proof. 
Gropp's was to go to college was realized after she strived all her life to achieve it. 
On October 17. 1992, Independent Colleges of Indiana honored Gropp, along with 32 other individuals, as an outstanding first-generation college student at the annual "Realizing a Dream" banquet in Indianapolis. The program, funded by a grant from Lilly Endowment. recognizes superior students who are the first of their family members to attend college. 
"It was a really great honor to get this award and my family was very proud of me," she said. 
In qualifying for this award Gropp displayed outstanding performance in her first-year studies at Saint Mary's College. Along with being an active member of the Saint Mary's community. 
Currently, Gropp said she is involved in Circle K, Adopt-a-nun, Chemistry Club and various church activities. Gropp was 
'Bram Stoker's Dracula' demonstrates charismatic love story of literary and dramatic excellence 
By PETER BEVACQUA 
Film Critic 
Dangerous and charismatic, Dracula is a character who has haunted his brooding, frightening and evocative literary and dramatic landscape for almost a century. The deeply erotic story, originally written by Bram Stoker and published in 1897, was one of the Victorian Age's most enduring novels. It is also a love story so disturbing and resonant that it has been revered as one of the greatest Gothic epics of all time. 
Academy Award-winning director Francis Ford Coppola, whose version of the story is highly stylized and yet remains uncommonly true to the source material (hence the title), approaches the narrative in a unique way. 
The film combines an emphasis on the human emotion behind the most terrifying aspects of the story with vintage Coppola filming to produce a version of the classic tale which is as visually stunning as it is thematically compelling. 
Gary Oldman's (best known for his portrayal of Lee Harvey Oswald in Oliver Stone's "JFK") rendition of Dracula is very entertaining. Oldman reveals a Dracula who has forsaken his religion and his faith in mankind, and is forced to recognize his subsequent demise. 
Dracula longs for a reunion with his lost bride, Winona Ryder, and his taste for such humanity has grown bold with 
Bram Stoker's Dracula 
Produced by Francis Ford Coppola, Fred Fuchs, and Charles Mulvehill Directed by Francis Ford Coppola Starring Gary Oldman, Winona Ryder, Anthony Hopkins, and Keanu Reeves 
* * * 
(out of five) 
L......:-----:--=--:-:--~-:--:------:--:--~ 
desire. Touching that humanity, and having lost his own, this is 
a chronicle of damnation and 
redemption,  of horror and  
romantic  passion,  of  
renunciation and sacrifice.  

Anthony Hopkins plays Dr. Abraham Van Helsing, and he, as he always seems to do, steals 
the show. The insertion of his character comes at a point
when the film's visual magnificence begins to be overshadowed by some rather 
lengthy, dialogue-filled encounters between Mina (Ryder) and her very
uninteresting suitors. Hopkins gives the film a 
certain legitimacy-hisperformance is both amusing and bizarre, and he serves as the in-house expert on Vampirism. Coppola allows Hopkins to explain all the mystery behind Stoker's 
novel-he, therefore, is a necessary ingredient if the film is going to appeal to an audience segment unfamiliar with the text. 
Keanu Reeves plays the part of Johnathan Harker, and it is difficult to take him very seriously. At moments of intense intrigue one wonders if he will begin to play the air guitar, or if he will blurt out, "Party on, Count!" Reeves, although he is a fine actor, suffers a bit from Anthony Perkins Syndrome (APS)-a condition suffered when an actor/actress cannot shake the persona of a previous role (i.e., A. Perkins-Norman Bates). 
Granted, Reeves was tremendous in Gus Van Sant's 
"My Own Private Idaho," but this actor propelled to stardom 
by the mega-hit "Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure" is going to have trouble escaping from role the public identifies him with so 
readily.  
The film's achievement  greatestis its  
cinematography.  Coppola  

photographs "Dracula" in such 
a wonderful fashion that even Bram Stoker himself would grin with satisfaction. Each and 
every scene, from the non-stop 
. f h · 
actiOn o t e opemng segment through the heart-felt moment 
of true love which marks the 
conclusion, is a pleasure to watch. 
Where "Dracula" fails, to a degree, is with its content. Coppola, obviously, could not present a filmic reiteration of 
the novel, for if he had I would 
still be there. There are moments of disinterest and boredom within the film, and it is obvious that the concluding 

Photo courtesy of Columbia Pictures 
Mina (Winona Ryder) is seduced by Dracula's (Gary Oldman) eternal charms in 'Bram Stoker's Dracula.' chase across Europe (lasting the equal of Bella Logosi), about 1 1/2 minutes) was much Winona Ryder and Anthony shorter than Coppola originally Hopkins are sure to attract intended. enough of a varied audience to 
Overall, however, Coppola has secure the film's success. produced another sure fire hit. "Dracula" will scare the hell A film as graphically stirring as out of kids, seem really cool to "Bram Stoker's Dracula" cannot the adolescent crowd and fail in a movie-going appeal to those who have read environment which currently the novel. Finally, Anthony has allowed "Under Siege" to be Hopkins will attract everybody the biggest money making else because he seems to be the debacle of the season. Gary 1990's version of Sir Laurence Oldman (although he's not quite Olivier. 

presented with a plaque bearing her she said she met the teacher who would name, as well as having a $500 have a tremendous effect upon her life. contribution made to the general scholarship fund of Saint Mary's College Linda Flora, a mathematics and in her name. science teacher at MHS, said she 
Gropp, a chemistry major with minors encouraged Kimberly to reer and in Math and Spanish, is the oldest of two constantly emphasized to her the children. A Mishawaka resident, Gropp importance of a college degree. She attended Mishawaka High School where pushed and challenged her students to perform their very best and motivated them to do just that. Mrs. Flora was also honored in the "Realizing the Dream" program for her positive influence upon Gropp's academic career. As a reward for her achievements, she has presented 
with  a  $500 grant  to  use  towards  
enhancing  her  professional  
development.  

Gropp said she worked hard all her life to make it this far. Throughout high school she concentrated hard on her studies, of which she said especially enjoyed her foreign language, math and science classes, and displayed profound leadership qualities in her extra­curriculars. 
A prominent member of National Honor Society, the swim team, the band, Spanish club and Japanese Club. She said she chose Saint Mary's because it was close to home, and spoke of a highly acclaimed faculty and administration, a beautiful campus and the smaller class size as compared to most other colleges and universities. 
Gropp said that she hopes this will enhance her career options. As a chemistry major, she hopes to pursue a research-oriented field. 
"I see myself in a chemistry lab situation, possibly working on some type of cure," she said. 
With her strong-willed determination and perseverance she will soon be making even bigger impressions on the world. 
Accent
page 10 Tuesday, November 17, 1992 
The 'Bend in the limelight 
David Copperfield brings his magic to the Morris Civic Auditorium 
By JAHNELLE HARRIGAN 
Accent Editor 
He walked through the Great Wall of China. He vanished the Statue of Liberty and a jet airplane. He even made a 70-ton, 85-foot long Orient Express train car disappear. And now he's coming to South Bend. 
Illusionist David Copperfield brings his current tour, "David Copperfield: Magic For the Nineties," to the Morris Civic Auditorium Thursday, promising many special effects and music by artists including Peter Gabriel, Van Halen, Guns 'n Roses and Harry Belafonte. 
Audiences will see him perform many illusions, including flying through space without wings or strings; vanishing a spectator's finger ring and make it reappear, tied to his shoelaces; making himself shrink to eight inches in height; and making a person vanish piece by piece. 
His creative illusions and performances have earned him many Emmy Awards and several entertainment awards, including being named "Entertainer of the Year" by the American Guild of Variety Artists and the Academy of Magical Arts. 
But he's just doing what he likes best. 
"You have to understand. My whole career has been about living on the edge and taking risks, both professionally and physically. Instead of being afraid of challenges, I embrace them," Copperfield said. 
Copperfield does more than simply perform magic-he writes, directs and develops all of his own work. 
His own dreams have helped him find ideas for new illusions, and many dreams of flying have inspired the illusion of flying included in his current tour. 
Ideas also come from fans-in fact, the idea to walk through the Great Wall of China originated when a fan suggested it to him after a performance. "They were joking, but I took them seriously," he said. 
After an idea is found, it takes between six months and two years to develop a six-minute illusion, according to Copperfield. "It's a pretty intense process," he said. 
Copperfield tries to communicate through his work. "My show is an expression of myself in which I incorporate many different themes which gives me a chance to take the audience on a roller coaster ride of emotions," he said. "I want them to be moved. I don't want them just to be amazed." 
His career began in his hometown of Metuchen, N.J., when he was between eight and 10 years old, according to Copperfield. Known as "Davino, The Boy Magician," he says he "thought it would be a good way to meet girls." 
The youngest person ever admitted to the Society of American Magicians, Copperfield learned his trade through books, and while still in his teens, taught a course in magic at NYU. 
After high school, he attended Fordham University in New York City, but left after only three weeks when he was cast as the lead in a new Chicago musical called "The Magic Man." All the show's music was created by Copperfield, who also sang, 


David Copperfield performs a wide variety of magic tonight at the Morris Civic Auditorium at 5:30 and 8:30p.m. 
danced and acted in musical. Copperfield will perform two shows 
Copperfield performs 500 national at the Morris Civic Auditorium and international shows each year in Thursday at 5:30 and 8:30 p.m. addition to an annual television Tickets are still available at the Morris special, and says he will continue to Civic Auditorium, Tracks Records and do so. Orbit Records for $24.50 
Del Leppard promises to adrenalize JACC tonight 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Def Leppard heads, prepare to get rocked. The British group is bringing their show to the JACC tonight where the audience will be treated to two and a half hours of hits spanning 12 years. 
Notre Dame has never hosted the band before and tour manager Kate Des Enfants said that Def Leppard~ appearance here will be exceptional. 
"It's a combination of the 
' 
building being open, the' price, location...luck," she said. "Booking tours is such
' 
an inexact science." 
I ' 
, ' Des Enfants promised an' amazing show and said that· ' "everything hangs" onto the I specially-designed stage.
I 
Loudspeakers and monitors
I 
dangle above a stage that is
I 
built up from the middle of the floor. Def Leppard is the
' 
' 
' 
first band to develop this'' stage in the round where "even if you have the 'worst 
seat' you're still close to the 
r band," according to Des En­
' 
I rants. I Fans have had to wait four 
I 
years for the band's fourth world tour. Des Enfants
I 
' 
attributes the delay in theI 
album and tour to several
I I 
obstacles. 
I I I I I 
"The guitarist overdosed last year, there were personal problems, the drummer lost his arm," she said. 
The death of guitarist Steve Clark in January 1991 at his Chelsea, London, flat devastated the band. Clark death was caused by an accidental combination of alcohol, anti-depressants and the painkillers he was taking after cracking three ribs in a fall. 
Def Leppard got back on track in March 1991, with Phil Collen attempting to simulate the feel of the band's trademark twin-guitar track. 
"We demo'ed some of the songs in Holland a couple of years ago and I learnt Steve's guitar parts from there," Collen said. "It was sad and weird listening to him play: it was almost as if his ghost was teaching me the songs. I spent a lot of time in the studio, probably longer than the rest of the band, perfecting the guitars. They were done three times until it sounded like Def Leppard." 
A year after Collen joined Def Leppard, the long­awaited Adrendalize has only intensified anticipation instead of causing the band's popularity to fade. Sales from Pyromania to Hysteria nearly doubled, throwing their third album into the battle for #1 with Michael Jackson's Bad. 
Band members do not claim success without hard work. Like Hysteria, the making of Adrenalize has been a time of songs being written and scrapped, rewritten and cannibalized, recorded and re-recorded until Def Leppard are satisfied that they're perfect. 
"That's the beauty of spending so much time making a record-you can come back to something four months later and say, 'That's horrible.' But with most people that's already in the shops," reasons Joe Elliot. 
"The danger is that your last song will have been through the least evolution, but luckily both this time, with 'Let's Get Rocked,' and with Hysteria, where the last song was 'Pour Some Sugar On Me,' the song was right there. We recorded the album twice-and everything we recorded the second time was changed three or four times more. It evolved in bits." 
"We'd never rush anything out," confirmed bassist Rick "Sav" Savage. "We have to be 100 percent happy with the way a record sounds. And when the album is so successful like the last one, the tour has to go on for 15 months as more dates are Tickets for an evening of added on. Some people have Def Leppard (there is no been disgusted by the way we opening act) are selling at all record because there's so Ticketmaster outlets, the much multi-tracking, but Joyce ACC Box Office, or there's no easier way of doing charge by phone at 219/272­it. A few hours less vocal 2929. Tickets are still harmonizing just doesn't available at $20, and all sound like Def Leppard." seating is reserved. 


page 11 The Observer Tuesday, November 17, 1992 
SPORTS BRIEFS
Colts lose Jeff George for one week 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -One in the joint," George said. "The learned that top draft pick Steve day after a humbling loss to bad news is that it is fractured." Emtman was lost for the season New England, the Indianapolis with a torn ligament in his left Colts lost their quarterback for The injury is the second of the knee. Linebacker Quentin at least one week. season for George, who missed Coryatt, the overall second pick 
Coach Ted Marchibroda said the team's first three games in this year's draft, has been on Monday that Jeff George sus­with a preseason injury to a the injured list with a fractured tained a "slight" fracture in his ligament in his right thumb. wrist since Oct. 27. right wrist that would keep him And it's the latest in a series of Marchibroda said wide re­out of this week's game at problems slowing Marchi­ceiver Reggie Langhorne may Pittsburgh. But, George said broda's efforts to rebuild what also miss Sunday's game with a later the injury was in his right has been a floundering fran­foot injury. thumb. And trainer Hunter chise. Jack Trudeau, who started Smith said the break was in the "I knew something was wrong twice when George was out ear­first metacarpal, one of five in the third quarter. I originally lier, will start at Pittsburgh. long bones located just below thought it was the same injury the fingers. that I've had," George said. "It The Colts (4-6) will be trying 
"He possibly may be out for started tightening up. It really to snap a three-game losing three weeks," said Marchi­started bothering me.... Then streak capped off by the loss broda. "They're going to put a the last hit of the game really Sunday to otherwise winless cast on for three or four days. did me in and I knew it was New England. y en orge c an It's not anything serious.... He serious. Marchibroda thought the audible on a first-and-goal play possibly may play in two major damage to George came at the 6-yard line with Indi­weeks." "I came to the sidelines and as he was intercepted for the anapolis leading 31-21. 
George, however, said doctors tried to grip the ball and I knew third time in Sunday's 37-34 Earlier, New England re­have told him he could be out at that time that it probably was overtime loss, a play that led to turned two interceptions for Marchibroda, who had called from three to six weeks. broke." Charley Baumann's 18-yard touchdowns -including one a running play, defended Ge­
"The good news is that it's not One week ago the Colts field goal for the winning score. Chris Singleton returned 82 orge's decision Monday. 
Bowe may duck challenger Lewis to fight Foreman 
LONDON (AP) -Lennox Lewis· wants Riddick Bowe. He might have to settle for Frank Bruno. 
Lewis, the No. 1 contender for the world heavyweight title, went to Las Vegas confident that he would fight the winner of the Bowe-Evander Holyfield bout. 
But the scenario has changed after Bowe's unanimous, 12­round victory over Holyfield on Saturday night. Bowe's man­ager, Rock Newman, suggested the new champion might first 
make a voluntary defense against 43-year-old George Foreman. 
Where does that leave the un­beaten Lewis. who stopped Ra­zor Ruddock in the second round in London on Oct. 31 in what was billed as a title elimi­nation bout by the WBC? Wait­ing in the wings. again. 
"The situation is absolutely, completely crazy," Lewis' manager, Frank Maloney, said Monday. "We went to Vegas expecting to fight Holyfield or Bowe. Now Rock Newman is trying to sidestep us. 
"All the pieces were in place and new he's taking everything into his own hands. The lu­natics are now running the asylum." 
Bowe and Holyfield had signed agreements to defend the title against Lewis, who is trying to become Britain's first heavyweight champion this century. But Newman, eager to line up another big pay day for Bowe, says Lewis isn't a household name in the United States yet. 
If Bowe does refuse to fight Lewis in his first defense, he could be stripped of the WBC version of the title. If that hap­pens, WBC president Jose Su­laiman has said Lewis would be recognized as champion. 
But winning the WBC title by default wouldn't satisfy Lewis. And Bowe would remain champion of the WBA, the IBF and the public. 
"It could all take a couple of weeks before it all becomes clear," said Lewis, who beat Bowe for the super heavyweight gold medal at the 1988 Olympics. "If I am to become WBC champion and eventually get together with Bowe, I'd be entitled to 50 percent of the purse. 
"But I'd fight for less to get the chance of the undisputed championship. Money is not my motivation. Titles are. I just hope that public pressure and world pressure makes Bowe fight me." 
But the consensus in British boxing circles is that Lewis will have to wait. 
The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
LOST: I LOST MY DORM KEYS  LOST  LOST  LOST  
NOTICES  IF YOU FIND SOME KEYS CALL X1745: REWARD  A cheap but special gold heart  Need a ride to Purdue in West Lafayette this weekend. Call  ·usc· usc·usc·usc•usc· If you know anyone who wants to  !!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!1!1!!!!!!1  
12/09  '&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&  charm with a koala bear on each side. PLEASE return. Lost b/w  Andrea at 2721. Will help with gas and tolls.  watch NO kick USC's butt over Thanksgiving, I have FOUR (4)  Watch out, HOBBES is turning 21 on Friday, Nov. 20  
ATIENTION:  HELP ME ....  Walsh and Pasquerilla.  GA's that must be unloaded ASAP;  (That is Cup Nile @ midnite  
For more information and  CALL All  at  2316  I need a ride to Minneapolis for  these are great seats-let's help  for all you real drinkers)  
assistance regarding the  I lost my jacket at the Spin Doctors  Thanksgiving Break  each other! Call Matt x2124  
investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the  concert ... It's a green barn jacket with blue corduroy cuffs and collar and the  LOST! SENTIMENTAL WATCH (GOLD/SILVER) IN THE JEWELRY DEPT. OF HAMMES BOOKSTORE AROUND 2-3 PM ON TUESDAY,  x 1746 Jason FOR RENT  FOR SALE-2 U.S. C. TIX CALLI TED-513-492-5190  !!!!!!!!1!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!11!!!!11 MARGE  
Better Business Bureau of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ label says Forester. You know how cold it gets in South  NOV. 10, 1992. PLEASE CONTACT NO SECURITY -VERY IMPORTANT!!  Room for Rent For 2nd Sem: House  I PERSONAL  CLT­IT'S YOU! CLC  
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­ Bend. I NEED rny coat.  5 min from campus. Call287-4227  
9121 or800-439-5313.  Plus it has sentimental value  Found: Set of keys, in Niewland Physics  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Hey Niff  Uncle Roscoe is coming for Christmas!!  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  because my sister gave it to me and  Hall bathroom. Five keys, several  219-291-7153  Washington Hall  
she doesn't live in the country  labelled 614 Call x1665  ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif.  Dec.3,4,5  
TYPING 287-4082  anymore.  LOST-AT BRIDGETS AFTER BC  FOR SALE  family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful  Hey Baby, here's your personal­ 
Guaranteed Free Spring Break Trip To Bahamas or Panama City! Cancun, Jamaica, Daytona, Keys! Sign-Up Before 12/11/92! Springbreak! 1-800-678-6386. WordWorks Typing Service  If you found it, please contact Bethany at 283-2702. &'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'& LOST: Silver and green Claddaugh ring at Senior Bar on Thurs. 5 Nov. Sentimental value! Erin x3867  GAME, A PURPLE SKI JACKET WITH A PINK ZIP-OUT LINER. PLEASE CALL MIKE X1103 RIDE TO EASTON. PENN. FOR LAFEYETIE-LEHIGH GAME THIS WKND. X1746  I way tix to D.C. area (Dulles) on 11/23. Cheap! Kelly x2899 Selling a plane ticket to North Carolina over Thanksgiving break. Interested? Call Dave at 283-3662.  future for your baby. Confidential and legal. Expenses paid. Call Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805) 520-5978 or attorney (818) 241­5535. !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!11!!!!!!!!!!!!1  finally. Happy Birthday and Anniversary (we did decide on this, right?). Have a great day! You better watch out. You better not cry. You better not pout. I'm telling you why.  
Term papers, dissertations, theses 277-7406 ''Spring Break!'' Bahamas Cruise (+10 Meals) $279! Panama City with kitchen $119  FOUND: COIN CHARM OUTSIDE OF LAFORTUNE. CALL ANGEL 239-8422. LOST: (11/4 in Chern Lab)  WANTED ************WANTED**************  SKIS Atomic 833 sl -203 em. new, great price call Kevin x 1 062  Watch out, this Friday Nov. 20 HOBBES turns 21, Beware !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!11!!1!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!1!! MEN AND WOMEN  UNCLE ROSCOE'S COMING TO TOWN... LOSE FAT! Healthy, guaranteed diet program. Affordable. Call (616)471­3970.  
Cancun $429! Jamaica $479! Daytona (kitchens) $149! KeyWest $249! Prices increase 12/11/92! 1-800-678-6386  Adjustable fake-silver ring with green plastic stone. This ad costs me more than it is worth! Call 2721 and ask for Bridget if you've got it.  Ride to Scranton, PA or any where along 1-80 in PA for Thanksgiving. Will help with gas, tolls and driving. Flexible in departure and return times. CALL JILL@ X4758  For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call Rita Delivery on Campus 234-6524  FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE For more info, call COSIMO'S 277-1875.  KIM MASSMAN IS DESPERATE TO FIND SOMEONE TO SPEND HER MONDAY NIGHTS WITH ...  
$$TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT: Make $$$$$ and assist Ameritech  HELP  HELP  HELP  Need ride to Delaware Valley area  TICKETS  HER FAVORITE PAST-TIME IS DESIGNING PAGES AT THE  
Information Sys. with the NO  I lost a green irish scarf  for Thanksgiving. Will share costs &  SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK  OBSERVER WHILE SINGING  
telephone conversion. We have evening work available in Decem­ber and all shifts over Christmas  @ the 'backer this weekend I know that it is not the nicest thing in the world, but it has  driving. Eric x1200 El Buen Vecino, a program  Have a CHEAP round trip plane ticket for a female (from Chicago) and game ticket to USC. Call Kevin  '93! JAMAICA, CANCUN, FLORIDA FROM $119. BOOK EARLY, SAVE $$. ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL  ALONG TO "JESUS CHRIST, SUPERSTAR". IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO JOIN  
break. Please call 239-8856 for more information.  a lot of sentimental value. If you found it, please give me  designed to help families in need. welcomes blankets, towels, and bed  at 312-871-8217 after? pm @@@@@@@@@@  FREE! CALL 1-800-426-771 0.  THIS DYNAMIC, INTELLIGENT, BEAUTIFUL DESIGN EDITOR,  
ILOST & FOUND I  a call. Thank you for saving the remnant of my childhood. Mike 283-1161  linen for four South Bend families. Call Sara Haber at the program office at 287-8228, 6-8 p.m. weeknights. Delivery may be  Feel the sun, Feel the sand, See the coast,  $ 5.50 HAIRCUTS  CALL JEANNE BLASI AT THE OBSERVER (PHIONE 239-5303) -­HI JEANNE!  
Help  Help  Help  Help  provided if donators have no access  Enjoy the culture,  
to a car.  VITO'S BARBER & STYLING  
FOUND: key, Saturday on way to  All this and more for those  SHOP  TO THE LAW STUDENT AND HIS  
LOST: Old St. Louis Browns hat.  stadium in front of library pool  Ride to Kansas City for  who buy my USC  GAs.  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  SISTER...  
Gray with Brown brim and yellow  x4828  Thanksgiving Break. $$for gas  233-4767  A MILLION THANK YOU'S FOR  
lettering. Might have been lost near  Call Maureen 284-5156  Go to CALl & not South Bend  SAVING ME FROM MOB RULE.  
Stepan. Very high sentimental  LOST: Sister's N.J. license on B.C.  with the help of my GAs.  
value. Call Wally x3443. $$Reward$$  wkend name-Meghan Shannon REWARD! call Joellenx4814  CLEVELAND for Thanksgiving? Help!! I need a ride! Will pay for gas and tolls. Megan 283-3614  Clarke 234-9433 @2@2@2@2@2@  Saturday's were made for SYR's (Christmas ones)!!  I HAD A GREAT, SOBER 21ST THANKS FOREVER--KIM  

~---­
page 12 The Observer IU'Q"\JUOJ 1 1~VVt;;IIIUt:l 1/ 1 l':;j':;j~
........................................................• 
: .: .: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~ 
' :00. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ..eo'
€:> IJ.~ ~ A .=-JM • ••••• • • • •••••• •••••• •••••• • • ••••••• •••••• • • !'@ A ~ W.t· c:.» 'C:-~~ ~ w 7ji:-1> • :: .: :: • •• : : :: :: :: • •• : : af%/ w ~ ~ ~ 
..... ..... ..... . ........ ...... ..... . . . . ...... 
' 
NFL STANDINGS I  NHL STANDINGS  NBA STANDINGS  Chicago at Minnesota, 8 p.m. Sacramento at Houston, 8:30p.m.  
AMERICAN CONFERENCE East w L T Pet PF Buffalo 7 2 0 .778 234 Miami 7 2 0 .778 230 lndnplis 4 6 0 .400 133 NY Jets 3 7 0 .300 163 New England 1 9 0 100 138 Central Pttsburgh 7 3 0 .700 196 Houston 6 4 0 .600 230 Cleveland 5 5 0 500 154 Cincnnati 4 6 0 .400 184 West Denver 7 3 0 .700 175 Kan. City 6 4 0 .600 204 San Diego 5 5 0 .500 158 LA Raidrs 4 6 0 400 152 Seattle 1 9 0 .100 59 NATIONAL CONFERENCE East w L T Pet PF Dallas 8 2 0 .800 247 Phila 6 4 0 .600 208 Washingtn 6 4 0 .600 175 NY Giants 5 5 0 .500 214 Phoenix 3 7 0 .300 174 Central Minnesota 7 3 0 .700 259 Chicago 4 6 0 .400 224 Green Bay 4 6 0 400 151 Tampa Bay 4 6 0 400 184 Detroit 2 8 0 .200 177 West San Fran 8 2 0 .800 292 NewOrlns 7 3 0 700 191 Atlanta 4 6 0 .400 186 LA Rams 4 6 0 400 190 Sunday's Games NewYorkJets 17,Cinclnnati 14 Pittsburgh 17, Detroit 14 Houston 17, Minnesota 13 New England 37, Indianapolis 34. OT Green Bay 27, Philadelphia 24 Atlanta 20, Phoenix 1 7 San Diego 14, Cleveland 13 Kansas City 35, Washington 16 Los Angeles Rams 27, Dallas 23 Tampa Bay 20, Ch1cago 17 San Francisco 21. New Orleans 20 Los Angeles Raiders 20. Seattle 3 Denver 27. New York G1ants 13 Monday's Game Buffalo at Miami, 9 p.m.  PA Home Away AFC NFC Div 149 4-1-0 3-1-0 5-2·0 2·0-0 4-1-0 151 3-1-0 4-1-0 5-2·0 2-0-0 3·2-0 223 2-4-0 2-2-0 3·6·0 1-0-0 2-3-0 202 3-2-0 0-5-0 3-4-0 0-3-0 2·2-0 257 0-5-0 1-4-0 1-6-0 0-3-0 1-4-0 139 4-0-0 3-3-0 6-2·0 1-1-0 3-1-0 178 3-2-0 3-2-0 5-4-0 1·0-0 2-3-0 159 2-3-0 3-2-0 4-5-0 1-0·0 2·1-0 229 2·2-0 2-4-0 3-4·0 1-2-0 1-3-0 183 6-0-0 1-3-0 6-1·0 1·2-0 3-1-0 158 5-1-0 1-3-0 4-3-0 2·1·0 4·1-0 165 3-2-0 2-3-0 5-5-0 0-0-0 2-3-0 171 3-2-0 1-4-0 3-4-0 1-2·0 2-2-0 194 0-4-0 1-5-0 1-6-0 0-3-0 0-4-0 PA Home Away AFC NFC Div 152 5-1-0 3-1·0 3-0-0 6-1-0 4-1-0 134 5·0·0 1-4-0 2-1·0 4·3·0 3-2-0 167 4·1·0 2-3-0 2-1-0 4-3-0 1-3-0 202 3-2-0 2-3-0 1-2-0 4-3-0 2·1·0 225 2-2-0 1-5-0 0-0-0 3-7·0 1-4-0 161 3-2-0 4-1·0 1-1·0 6-2-0 6·1·0 244 3-3-0 1-3-0 0-1-0 4-5-0 3-3-0 215 3·1·0 1-5-0 2-1·0 2-5·0 1·3-0 227 3-3-0 1·3·0 0-1·0 4-5-o 3-4·0 216 1-4·0 1-4-0 0-1·0 2-7-0 2-4-0 172 3-1-0 5-1-0 2·1·0 6-1·0 5·0-0 138 3·1·0 4-2-0 1-0·0 6-3-0 2-2-0 265 4·2·0 0-4-0 1-1·0 3-5·0 1·3·0 206 3-1-0 1-5-0 2-2·0 2-4-0 0-3·0 Sunday, Nov. 22 Atlanta at Buffalo. 1 p.m. Cleveland at Minnesota. 1 p.m. Detroit at Cincinnati, 1 p m. Green Bay at Chicago, 1 p.m. Houston at Miam1, 1 p.m. Indianapolis at Pittsburgh, 1 p.m. Philadelphia at New York Giants, 1 p.m New York Jets at New England, 4 "'·m Dallas at PhoeniX, 4 p.m. Denver at Los Angeles Ra1ders. 4 ~.m. San Francisco at Los Angeles Rams. 4 p m Tampa Bay at San Diego, 4 p.m. Kansas City at Seattle. 8 p.m. Monday, Nov. 23 Washington at New Orleans. 9 p.m  WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Division w L T Pts GF GA Pittsburgh 12 4 3 27 87 69 New Jersey 10 7 0 20 60 60 NY Rangers 9 7 2 20 67 65 Philadelphia 7 8 3 17 75 75 NY Islanders 7 9 1 15 63 66 Washington 7 10 1 15 58 60 Adams Division Montreal 12 4 2 26 82 58 Quebec 9 5 4 22 84 69 Boston 9 4 2 20 67 52 Buffalo 8 7 2 18 91 69 Hartford 3 13 1 7 42 75 Ottawa 1 16 1 3 38 97 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norris Division w L T Pts GF GA Chicago 9 7 3 21 64 57 Detroit 10 8 0 20 72 61 Toronto 9 5 2 20 54 46 Tampa Bay 9 9 2 20 72 64 Minnesota 8 8 2 18 55 60 St. Louis 6 10 2 14 61 75 Smythe Division Los Angeles 12 4 2 26 89 64 Calgary 12 6 2 26 86 68 Vancouver 9 6 2 20 72 55 Edmonton 6 9 3 15 56 72 Winnipeg 5 12 1 11 60 76 San Jose 3 14 1 / 50 93 Saturday's Games Minnesota 3. Chicago 0 Toronto 4, Boston 1 Detroit 2, Hartford 0 Quebec 6. New York Rangers 3 New Jersey 4, Washington 3, OT New York Islanders 7, Buffalo 5 Philadelphia 4, Montreal 3, OT Calgary 5, Tampa Bay 3 St. Louis 4, Winnipeg 2 Los Angeles 6, Edmonton 2 Vancouver 5, San Jose 2 Sunday's Games Philadelphia 7, Ottawa 2 Chicago 2, Mmnesota 1 Monday's Games Boston at Montreal, 7:40 p.m St. Louis at Toronto, 7:40p.m Los Angeles at Vancouver. 10:40 p.m Tuesday's Games Toronto vs. Quebec at Hamilton. Ont . 7:40p.m Buffalo at Pittsburgh. 7:40p.m. Montreal at Onawa. 7:40p.m Chicago at Detroit, 7:40p.m. Winnipeg at Tampa Bay. 7:40p.m Los Angeles at San Jose. 10:40 p.rn  EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Division w L Pet. New York 4 1 .800 Miami 3 2 .600 Orlando 3 2 .600 New Jersey 3 3 .500 Boston 2 4 .333 Philadelphia 3 .250 Washington 5 .167 Central Division Chicago 5 1 .833 Milwaukee 4 2 .667 Indiana 3 2 .600 Cleveland 3 3 .500 Atlanta 2 3 .400 Detrort 2 3 .400 Charlotte 2 4 .333 WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Division w L Pet. Utah 3 2 .600 Houston 2 2 .500 Minnesota 2 3 400 Dallas 3 .250 Denver 4 .200 San Antonro 4 .200 Pacific Division Portland 4 0 1.000 Seattle 4 0 1.000 Phoemx 3 .750 Sacramenro 4 2 .667 LA Lakers 3 3 500 Golden State 2 4 333 LA Clippers 2 4 333 Saturday's Games New York 85, Boston 80 New Jersey 124. Orlando 1 1 3 Miami 104, Charlotte 95 Indiana 104, Detroit 100 Phoenix 108, Minnesota 101 Chicago 117. Denver 84 Houston 93, San Antonio 87 Dallas 113, Atlanta 1OS Utah 124, LA Clippers 104 Seattle 133, Sacramento 1 1 7 Portland 130, Golden State 116 Sunday's Games New Jersey 111. Wash1ngton 104 Milwaukee 115, Denver 98 Sacramento 109, Cleveland 107 LA Lakers 105. Golden State 102 Monday's Games Seattle at Phoen1x. 9:30p.m. New York at Portland. 10:30 p.m. Tuesday's Games Utah at New Jersey, 7·30 p.m Boston at Wash1ngton. 7:30p.m. Golden State at Mlam1 7·30 p.n'  GB 1 11/2 21/2 2 1/2 3 1/2 1 1 112 2 21/2 2 1/2 3 GB 112 1 1 1/2 2 2 1 2 3 3  Cleveland at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m New York at Seattle, 10 p.m. Detroit at LA Clippers. 10:30 p.m TRANSACTIONS BASEBALL NEW YORK YANKEES-Ass1gned Wade Taylor. pitcher, outright to Columbus of the International League. National League CHICAGO CUBS-Named Ed Ford scouting supervisor for New York, New England, New Jersey and Canada, and Preston Douglas scout for Northern Florida and Southern Georgia. CINCINNATI REDS-Named Tom Nieto manager, Mack Jenkins pitching coach and Tom Iverson tra1ner of Charleston, W.Va. ol the South Atlantic League; and Mark Berry manager; Derek Botelho pitch1ng coach and Tom Spencer trainer of Winston-Salem of the Carolina League. Signed Jeff Kunkel and Junior Noboa, infielders, and Eric Yelding, Steve Carter. Keith Hughes. Tracy Jones and Greg Tubbs. outfielders, to Indianapolis of the American Assoc1a11on. COLORADO ROCKIES-S1gned Andres Galarraga, first baseman. to a one-year contract. Japan Central League TAIYO WHALES-Signed Glenn Braggs. outfielder, to a two-year contract. Japan Pacific League LOTTE TIGERS-S1gned Mel Hall, outfielder, to a two-year contract BASKETBALL National Basketball Association SACRAMENTO KINGS-Extended tl1e contract of Mitch RlchmGJnd. guard FOOTBALL National Football League GREEN BAY PACKERS-Wa1ved K1trick Taylor. w1de receiver. Cla1med Ronald Lew1s, Wide rece1ver. off wa1vers from the San Francisco 49ers. HOCKEY National Hockey League LOS ANGELES KINGS-Ass1gned Robert Lang, center, to Phoenix of the International Hockey League. MONTREAL CANADIENS-Ass1gned Sean H1ll, defenseman. Oleg Petrov and Patnc Kjellberg, forwards. to Fredencton of the Amencan Hockey League COLLEGE HOUSTON-Announced the res1gnat1on of Rudy Davalos. athletiC director. effect1ve Dec. 1. so he can accept the same JOb at the  
Dallas at Charlotte. 7:30p.m.  Un1vers1ty of New Mex1co.  
Denver at Indiana. 7:30p.m  ST. PETER'S-Named Brll Maranz men·s  
Milwaukee at Atlanta. 8 p m  part· time ass1stant basket hall coach  

CLASSES THAT WILL ANTH 389 01 3934 ENGL 314B 01 3756 HIST 359 01 4306 PHIL 248 01 4030 REOPEN AT 7:00P.M. ANTH 454 01 3454 ENGL 319B 01 4224 HIST 359A 01 4307 PHIL 250 01 3551 11L17L92 ARCH 598B 01 0420 ENGL 319E 01 4216 HIST 365A 01 4290 PHIL 261 01 2765 ARCH 598F 01 0269 ENGL 325 01 1021 HIST 391 01 1938 PHIL 261 02 1533 ACCT 477 01 0754 ARHI 169 01 3150 ENGL 340 01 1531 HIST 396 01 1427 PHIL 261 03 2395 ACCT 485 01 3399 ARHI 462 01 3647 ENGL 373E 01 4217 HIST 399 01 3356 PHIL 264 01 2181 BA 391 03 1690 ARHI 496 01 3654 ENGL 379C 01 4225 HIST 403A 01 4291 PSY 375 01 4360 BIOS 412L 01 2613 ARST 134S 01 0146 ENGL 384A 01 3764 HIST 415A 01 4308 PSY 403 01 4362 ENGL 416I 01 4228 ARST 1SOK 01 1154 ENGL 390B 01 4226 HIST 440A 01 4310 PSY 404 01 4363 ENGL 417 01 4245 ARST 212S 01 2356 ENGL 412C 01 4227 HIST 454 01 3537 PSY 405 01 4364 GOVT 407 01 1390 ARST 232S 01 2361 ENGL 414B 01 4713 HIST 454A 01 4311 PSY 441 01 4365 HIST 396 01 1427 ARST 246S 01 3464 ENGL 415 01 4721 HIST 460 01 1025 PSY 452 01 1130 HIST 541 01 4602 ARST 326S 01 0509 ENGL 416I 01 4228 HIST 460A 01 4312 PSY 456 01 3044 PHIL 221 01 4332 BA 362 01 2693 ENGL 416) 01 4634 HIST 483A 01 4295 RLST 213 20 9520 PHIL 235 01 4335 BA 391 01 0393 ENGL 417 01 4245 HIST 541 01 4602. RLST 213 22 9522 PHIL 241 02 2725 BA 391 02 1296 ENGL 422 01 1022 HIST 699 01 1122 RLST 240 24 9524 PHIL 250 01 3551 BA 391 03 1690 ENGL 426F 01 4230 liPS 493 01 4562 RLST 240 26 9526 PHIL 261 02 1533 BA 464 01 3111 ENGL 433B 01 3784 liPS 507 01 3422 RLST 261 36 9536 soc 320 01 4393 BA 490 01 0677 ENGL 440 01 4233 LAW 631F 01 0555 RLST 306 38 9538 soc 346 01 3562 BA 490 04 2439 ENGL 455B 01 4234 LAW 676A 01 2673 RLST 351 42 9542 THEO 243 02 4401 BA 490 07 0663 ENGL 461C 01 4236 LAW 695 01 1449 ROFR 499 01 0390 BIOS 407L 01 0375 ENGL 465 01 2096 LAW 695 02 1668 ROSP 432 01 4383 CLOSED SECTIONS AS OF BIOS 411L 01 2234 ENGL SUB 01 4220 LAW 695 03 1459 ROSP 499 01 1701 7:00P.M. 11L16L92 BIOS 411L 03 2308 ENGL 522A 01 4218 LAW 695 04 1675 soc 220 01 2031 
BIOS 412L 01 2613 FIN 231 04 1174 LAW 695 05 1831 soc 234 01 3556 ACCT 232 02 3268 BIOS 412L 02 0587 FIN 231 OS 2938 LAW 695 06 3201 soc 320 01 4393 ACCT 232 OJ 2862 CAPP 316 01 2763 FIN 231 06 0751 LLRO 533 01 4375 soc 346 01 3562 ACCT 232 OS 2671 CAPP 361 01 1683 FIN 231 09 1011 MARK 495 01 3828 soc 379 01 4395 ACCT 232 12 1799 CHEM 118L 07 2280 FIN 231 10 3091 MGT 499 01 4425 soc 415 01 3659 ACCT 232 13 0120 CLAS 423 01 3725 FIN 231 11 1818 MI 309 01 3534 soc 421 01 3308 ACCT 380 03 1203 CLAS 442 01 1817 FIN 231 12 1714 MI 403 01 4594 soc 424 01 4729 ACCT 477 01 0754 COTH 211 01 4192 FIN 360 OS 3250 MI 433 01 3785 soc 430 01 4566 ACCT 479 01 3081 COTH 435 01 4196 FIN 361 02 0824 MSA 546 01 4438 THEO 235 01 1755 ACCT 485 01 3399 COTH 436 01 4197 FIN 361 03 2786 MSA 547 01 1815 THEO 235 02 2106 AERO 441L 01 2859 COTH 440 01 4696 FIN 361 07 3096 MUS 220 01 3037 THEO 243 01 1513 AFAM 204 01 4695 DANC 145 78 9778 FIN 473 01 0215 MUS 220 02 0899 THEO 243 02 4401 AFAM 260 01 4617 ECON 421 01 0538 FIN 475 01 2739 MUS 220 03 3252 THEO 250 01 0066 AFAM 384A 01 3765 ECON 422 01 4209 FIN 476 01 3407 MUS 220 04 4138 THEO 252 01 0783 AFAM 389 01 3935 ECON 430 01 1383 FIN 478 01 1884 MUS 222 01 1357 THEO 262 01 0786 AFAM 419Z 01 4698 ECON 434 01 3597 GOVT 316F 01 4578 MUS 225 01 0278 THEO 265 01 0214 AFAM 420 01 4620 ECON 450 01 3745 GOVT 342T 03 1194 MUS 226 01 0032 THEO 267 01 4403 AFAM 454 01 3536 ECON 456 01 4210 GOVT 342T 04 0970 NSCI 412 01 3192 THEO 267 02 4404 AFAM 479 01 4084 EE 242L 02 0162 GOVT 343T 04 2197 PHIL 203 01 1131 THEO 290 01 4406 AMST 334 01 0316 EE 354L 03 4485 GOVT 404 01 0981 PHIL 221 01 4332 THEO 396 01 1519 AMST 391 01 3440 EE 498G 01 4478 GOVT 407 01 1390 PHIL 235 01 4335 THTR 135 49 9749 AMST 493 01 4161 ENGL 201A 01 4214 GSC 493F 01 4700 PHIL 241 02 2725 THTR 276 53 9753 ANTH 328 01 3362 ENGL 204 01 4063 GSC 498 01 1240 PHIL 244 01 0022 THTR 377 58 9758 ANTH 329 01 4164 ENGL 300C 01 4223 HIST 309 01 3535 PHIL 245 01 3548 THTR 410 59 9759 ANTH 329 02 4165 ENGL 301 01 0648 HIST 309A 01 4299 PHIL 246 01 2483 ANTH 336 01 4166 ENGL 301C 01 0966 HIST 327A 01 4302 PHIL 247 01 4338 
[_ 
Tuesday, November 17, 1992 The Observer page 13 
Berndt on his way out as Temple hunts for a coach 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) Though Jerry Berndt has heard a lot about his future, or lack of it, with the Temple Owls next season, it hasn't come from the people who will make the decision. 
'I have not been told officially that I am not the coach," Berndt said Monday. 
One game remains in the fourth season of Berndt's five­year contract. but the word is out: Temple is looking. Temple officials have interviewed Clemson assistant Ron Dicker­son about the job. 
Berndt brought high hopes to Temple when he arrived in 1989, despite coming off a winless season at Rice. Temple officials hoped he could dupli­cate the success he found across town at Penn, where his teams won or shared four Ivy League championships in five years. 
Berndt can pinpoint when things started turning away from the promise of the Owls' 7-4 season of 1990, when there was even some talk of a bowl berth a year after a 1-10 record. 
The promise evaporated quickly when the 1991 season opened with three quick losses. 
"We opened up with three straight games on the road, at Alabama, at Pitt and at Clem­son," he said. After beating Howard, the Owls came back with tight losses to Penn State and West Virginia. 
"In our frrst six games, having those five teams and losing those two close games back to back just ate our football team alive," Berndt said. 
"We were very excited. We were coming off the 7-4 season. We came out of the blocks against people that week in and week out were some of the best people in the country at that point." 
They wound up 2-9 and have lost nine in a row this year after winning the season-opener. 
Athletic director Charles Theokas did not return a phone call Monday afternoon. But he confirmed to a newspaper last week that Temple officials had spoken with Dickerson. 
Instead of focusing solely on a game-of-a-lifetime test against top-ranked Miami, the Owls were treated last week to spec­ulation about their coach's job. 
"It was extremely distracting," Berndt said. "I told the players last Thursday that some things were happening and coming out. We've been living by the creed since I've been here that you don't let things bother you or affect you that you cannot control." 
Miami won 48-0, but Berndt was proud of his players. 
"I thought amidst all this turmoil the kids kept their heads about themselves," he said. 
Berndt was under no illusions about his challenge when he took the Temple job. 
"I knew it would be difficult," he said. "We got really ahead of schedule ... when we went 7­4.Last year we fell behind schedule. This year has been real difficult and frustrating." 
Temple's schedule in recent years has been intimidating enough, with lots of road games and a Who's Who of the Top 25 lined up. Embarrassingly small crowds show up for the home games at Veterans Stadium. 
Some say the Owls should consider moving down from Division 1-A, but Berndt says there is no question in his mind that Temple belongs with the big boys of college football. 
"I think we can and should," he said. 
But how to compete -to regularly put together winning seasons? Berndt's enthusiasm for his job comes through. 
"I just think we obviously have to keep recruiting and getting quality players," he said. "I think our schedule down the road is a little more manageable than we've had." 
Has Berndt received a fair shake? He's not ready to say ­yet. 
"Right now I'm not at liberty to respond to that," he said. "There are too many questions to be answered at this point." 
NFC East is taken by. storm on ''Surprise Sunday'' 
IRVING, Texas (AP) -The Dallas Cowboys and the cocky NFC East got a bigtime reality check, proving it's still a jungle out there every Sunday in the NFL. 
The Cowboys fell 27-23 to the 14-point underdog Los Angeles Rams but still maintain a two­game lead in the NFC East with an 8-2 record because Philadelphia and Washington also lost. The Phoenix Cardinals and New York Giants also fell on "Surprise Sunday." 
''I'm disappointed but not surprised," wide receiver Michael Irvin said. "You don't get surprised in the NFL be­cause any team can beat any other team. We just didn't exe­cute. Period." 
Running back Emmitt Smith, held to 80 yards by the worst defense against the rush in the league, said something was missing from the Dallas effort. 
"The intensity was not there," he said. "We didn't make plays." 
Still Drhting E"eryone Crazy? Happy Belated 20th Birthday! 

Love, Mom, Dad & Ilona 
•r===~~-----------=~~--======a 
1 
Center for Social Concerns 
il 
II 
1 Merica Service-Learning Seminar 
The Mexico Seminar is a one-credit service-learning opportunity in Oaxaca, Mexico. During two weeks in the early summer, NntrP Dame and Saint Mary's students provide service to a variety nf pC'nplC' while experiencing the realities of Latin America directly. Cosponsored by Maryknoll, the program seeks to provide intercultural exchange through community and shared work experience. Students participate in fundraising efforts to lower costs. 
-Two weeks in Oaxaca, Mexico: May 11 to May 24th, 1993 (leaving time for summer work) 
-Service-learning cosponsored by Maryknoll 
(Call and Response Program) 
-One credit Theology 
-Spanish not required 
- Information Meeting:  
Wednesday, November 18th, 1992 7:00PM at the Center  
- Applications are available at the Center  
- Applications due: Monday, November 30th with deposit  

For more information: Mendy Nitsch, 284-5023 
Dr. Jay Brandenberger Center for Social Concerns, 239-5293 
Jim Everett passed for two touchdowns and Cleveland Gary scored twice and rushed for 110 yards against a Dallas defense which had been ranked No. 1 in the league. 
"How do you figure it?" asked fullback Daryl Johnston. "We had a good week of practice." 
Defensive tackle Russell Mary­land said he was amazed at the Rams defense. 
"They did a good job of hold­ing our offense and I was sur­prised after everybody was 

PRICES FOR STAY-NOT PER NIGHT! 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND  "o"'$fQ9 
5 and 7 NIGHTS  
DAYTONA BEACH  "o'" $  68  
5 AND 7 NIGHTS  
PANAMA CITY BEACH  "0"' $  8f  
S AND 7 NIGHTS  
STEAMBOAT 2. 5 AND 7 NIGHTS  "o"'$f29 I  
MUSTANG ISLAND I  
PORT ARANSAS  ,o,SfJ2 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS  
HILTON HEAD ISLAND  "o"'$f2f  
5 AND 7 NIGHTS  
FORT LAUDERDALE  ,,om Sf46  
5 AND 7 NIGHTS  
..  
12th Annual  ~  ~  
Party!  n~~  

TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
...................
1·800·32t·59tt__ _ 
talking about how they were 28th in the league," Maryland said. "They met the challenge and we didn't. We're not in a panic situation. Maybe won't let this happen again." 
Tony Casillas, the Cowboys' other starting defensive tackle, said, "We were kinda compla­cent on the line. We're not looking for excuses. The Rams just came in here and exe­cuted." 
Safety Thomas Everett added: "The Rams were good. You have to keep things in perspec­tive. This is the NFL and any­thing can happen. Look at all the other teams who got beat on Sunday." 
playoff 
continued from p. 16 
weekends after Thanksgiving, the effects of final exams on the players would be minimized. Those schools who have early exam periods might hav·e to deal with finals in between games, but it would be no more than four schools. Universities with academic schedules comparable to Notre Dame's, with finals several weeks into December wouldn't have to worry about football 
interrupting tests at all. After those two rounds of 
Scholarshipsl 
Available 
Call 1-800-423-5515 
For a recorded message giving details 
Shumate & Associates 
Dallas got only one sack and the pass rush was hampered because of defensive end Charles Haley's pulled groin. 
"It's a tough injury for the type of player that I am because I do a lot of quick moves," Haley said. "I couldn't do it every time I tried to. " 
Haley said he wasn't shocked by the Rams' performance. 
"I played the Rams two times a year when I was with the (San Francisco) 49ers and I know what Everett is capable of," Haley said. "We were riding high but this proves that any week anyone can come in here and beat you. We can't let this loss get us down." 
games, two teams would remain to play for the national championship. To avoid upset the bowls too much, take the five major bowls (Rose, Fiesta, Cotton, Sugar and Orange) and assign them the championship game on a rotating basis, so that once every five years they would be assured of the national-championship game. 
The bowls that don't host that game could maintain their conference affiliations, rewarding those teams that don't make the finals, but who have still had a good season. 
Thus, for instance, if Washington and Alabama are the two finalists, and it's the Cotton Bowl's turn to host the championship game, those two teams would meet there. The Rose Bowl would take the Big Ten champ and an at-large team, while the Sugar Bowl would take two at-large teams. 
Only in this way can all the arguments be settled. Besides, the way the Irish are playing now, I wouldn't count them out of a title shot in a playoff. 
Earn Cash For The $Holidays$ 
Banquet Servers & Licensed Bartenders Needed $ Weekend & Evening Hours Available $ Various Clerical Positions Available 
For More Info Call MANPOWER:234--0157 
--~­
.----------------------------------­
-~~-­
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, November 17, 1992 
• 
Ditka explodes again 
Siegfried wins li\t~fhall title 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. (AP) ­Chicago Bears coach Mike Ditka defended his on-field ex­plosions with another eruption Monday. saying malcontents and the "lousy" media can "quit watching me, quit writing about me or get rid of me." 
During his morning radio show on WGN, Ditka defended his tirade against kicker Kevin Butler and his shouting match with a fan following the Bears' 20-17 loss at Tampa Bay on Sunday. Ditka had to be pulled away from the stands by play­ers and coaches. 
"I'm not going to be a punching bag for anybody," Ditka said about the shouting match. 
''I'm not going to be cannon fodder," he said. "He called me a name and I called him a name." 
Ditka also said he didn't re­gret tearing into Butler after a kickoff went out of bounds and the Buccaneers took over on their own 35-yard line. Butler then missed a 44-yard field goal with seven seconds left that could have tied the game and sent it into overtime. 
Butler said after the game that Ditka told him ''I'm the worst kicker in the league. I'm gutless, and I'm mentally weak." 
Ditka said Monday: "We don't plan to kick the ball out of bounds. 
"It had nothing to do with the missed field goals and I told him that. It's the kickoff that bothered me." 
Ditka then ripped into the media. 
"At least we've made some people happy ... the malcon­tents and the lousy people in the media. 
"If they don't like what Ditka does when he shakes his fist or hollers, then that's tough. They 
Fence 
continued from page 16 
this early in the season," said head coach Mike DeCicco, "He fenced as well as I hoped he would." 
Bernard Baez took 25th in the sabre while Chris McQuade finished 39th. 
In the men's epee, likely number-one fencer junior Grzegor Wozniak reinforced his position with the team by fencing well and placing third. Geoff Pechinsky finished 17th among the 65 competitors, while Per Johnsson battled in­consistency to finish 34th. Johnsson did defeat a fencer from Moscow who went on to 
Give your heart an extra helping. 
Say no to high-fat foods. 
ftAmerican Heart 
~Association 
'NE'RE FIGHTING~ 
'rOJRUF£ 
can quit watching me, quit writing about me or get rid of me. They have three options and they can use any one of those options." 
Ditka became angrier when it was suggested that his blowup at Butler might have unsettled the kicker to the point of miss­ing his final field goal attempt. 
"He missed the field goal," Ditka said. "If you want to make me the scapegoat, go ahead, if that will answer your question. You can write about it or talk about it all week." 
Butler refused to talk about the situation Monday. Most of the other players also were re­luctant to discuss the game or their 4-6 record and three­game losing streak, the longest since 1989 when they lost their last six games. 
By HEATHER WlLEY 
SportsWriter 
The Siegfried Slammers went on to win the women's interhall football championship over a determined Walsh squad 13-0 last SUnday, claiming the title and setting a precedent for fu~ 
tttre teams, being the first team to go in as an eighth seed in the playoffs Md go on to win the whole thing, according to Siegfried coach Mark Falcione and Reespotts. 
Siegfriedrs first play was a twenty·five yard pass comple-. tion from Slammer quarter~ I& back Matcie McNeill to captain · Su~anne JtU>ter, which ~et up an. 1 eight-yard touch-do from McNeill to Ptis 
·•.. J-eralta•..Siegfried then missed # .. .~~~ping their ... 
lead to six point$ going into the second half. 
Both defenses played· tough, Siegfried keeping Walsh from moving the ball, and Walsh holding Siegfried to one touch­down until· the· final minute of the •game,. when the Slammers scored again with a fifty~yard run by Angie Luzio, killing Walsh's hopes for a comeback. The extra poi,nt was coD,verted on a run by McNeill. 
Having good defensive games were Megan Frost turning in an interception,·her fifth of the year.and Juliet Diekmann with 
a.key sack~. ®n Lillie J;J,acX an important pass (leflection as welL · 
"Once ag~. d~'e 

Zahm scores a touchdown in its victory over Keenan for the men's interhall football championship this past Sunday in Notre Dame Stadium. 
plan to stop the opposing team's offense," said Falcione. Also having strong games, and strong seasons were Siegfried's offensive line, tenter Sharon Tasca, and guards Sheila Zachman and Kathleen Clark. allowing no sacks in the game. . Walsh. which two years ago lost every ga,me, made it all 
the way to the house that Rockne built. proud of their accomplishments for the year. 
"It was disappointing to make it to the finals and to lose, but it was a lot of fun to play in the stadium. We played tough/' said captain Laura Lavigne. Turning in great seasons were seniors Jeannine trezeant, on offense, and on defense, Jeanne Blasi, Erin Kelly, Chris Darcy•. and Lara 
Nelson~ 
IH 
Continued from page 16 
had turned the game against Flanner in the semifinals. 
Zahm did manage one other scoring opportunity, as another catch by Rios put Zahm at the Keenan 26. However, Scott Ecker missed a 42-yard field goal to keep Keenan's hopes alive. 
Faced with little time and a stingy run defense, Keenan was forced to go to the passing game, but the Zahm secondary was up to the task. After Micky McNamee barely missed com­pleting a halfback option pass, Casey connected with Murphy for twenty yards to pose a Keenan threat. After another twenty-yard gain was negated by a penalty, Zahm linebacker Tim Ysura made an intercep­tion on an important fourth and two play. Zahm's Paul Shuga iced the game with his second big interception in as many weeks as time was running out. 
win the tournement. 
On the whole, DeCicco is pleased with the results of sev­eral events despite the prob­lems that arose soon before the weekend. 
"Right now it looks like we'll be competitive in the women's foil, epee, and sabre," he said. 
Specifically, he is pleased with the performance of de Bruin who "with Maria can make a good one-two punch." 
Although the weekend's events did not run as smoothly as the team had hoped, the Irish nonetheless proved to make an excellent showing in the tournement. And the re­turn of Piper and Panyi to ac­tion will only better the team as a whole heading into the sea­son. 
CRUISE JOBS 
Students Needed! 
Eam$2.()00i.I month working forcruise shipsor 
IDur rompmies. Holiday, Summer, and Fuii­
Tbne employment available. For your '92/'<13 
employment program call: 
Cndu Employment Servia~ (206) 634-0468 Ext. c 5584 
Dracula R 
4:30, 7:15, 10:00 
Candyman R 
5:00. 7:00, 9:15 
The Last of the Mohicans R 
4:45, 7:30, 9:45 


----------~~--~~----------------------------~-­
Today 

Tuesday, November 17, 1992 ••page 15
Brought to you by DOMINO'S 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
LOOK 1-\ClBBES, I GOT A 
PI\\1'\T-B'i-NUMBERS K\1! 
lfS REALLi 
FV~. 
CROSSWORD 
opposites 12 Ferrara family 13 Grant's 
adversary 21 Nigerian native 
(United States) 25 Monastic title 

FADED? 
Revive your tan with our 
EUROTAN 
tanning beds 1 0 for $35°0 or $5°0 per single session with student ID 

Y£AH. IJ.f/:5 IS Pr Bun sTEP -rowAAD Bt-l N ' TRUE Ar1£RICA-N. 
HuH 
BVT 'ia\J'Rt. No\ PI\\1'-\TING 
IN 11-\1:. LINES 1\~D 'IOI.J'RE 
NO\ \.lS\~G 11-\'t: CoLORS T\-11\T CORRESPOND "Ttl \1\E N\Jt-\Bt.RS. 
61 Spydom name 62 Harden 63 Not written 65 Lanchester or 
Maxwell 66 Helicopter part 67 Soprano 
Ponselle 68Genuine 69 Cancels the 
dele 10 Spot 
DOWN 
1 Offer an afterthought 2 Secular 3 Baltic Sea feeder 4Ryan's daughter 5 "-inRome," Burton film 6Calvados neighbor 7These are worse than cees a Stage 9 Prado's locale 10 Heartburn cures: Var. 
BILL WATTERSON 
IF I \)\D THAT 
I'D GH 11\1::. 
1'\CTUR£ \\-\£'( S1.\ClW G\'1 \Ht. BJX! 
26 Doone of fiction 47 Scoffs 57 Flock of mallards
27 Of a Great Lake 49"-the 29Nylons ramparts ..." sa A gait 59Amor, to
300eposes 52"Tobe-to 
Aristotle
be"
32 Plummer and 
10 Harsh sound 
Ferrer, e.g. 54 Saw at night 
61 "... bells on
33 Build a building 55 Two cities' story -toes" 34 Lesser civet 
56 Major or Minor MBallad 36 Publisher's article 36 Zaragoza's river Get answers to any three clues 41 March 11 color by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420· 
42 Lifesavers 5656 (75¢ each minute). 

an 
we c.are hair 
1811 South Bend Ave. 271-7674 
DOMINO'S PIZZA 

Today's Soecial: 
1 Large 
Thin Pizza 
Additional toppings 95¢ per pizza 
Call Now 
ND 271,0300 SMC 289,0033 
MEllO 
Notre Dame 
Marinated Flank Steak 
Sandwich Chill CrispitosTurkey Pot Pie 
LECTURES 
Tuesday 
4:15 p.m. Colloquium in History and Philosophy of Science: "Going Ape Over Darwin and Femininity.ft James Moore. Notre Dame London Program and Harvard University. Room 126, DeBartolo Hall. Sponsored by Notre Dame Program in Historyand Philosoph~ of Science. 7 p.m. Panel discussion: "The Election Is Over, Now It's Time to Govern. "126 DeBartolo Hall. Sponsored by Omicron Delta Epsilon and the Hesburgh Program in Public Service. 7:30p.m. Lecture: "Tlie Spread of Arms in the International System," Frederick Pearson, Wayne State University.Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kroc Institute. 
CAMPUS Tuesday 
7 p.m. Film: "Vertigo." Anlt~nberg Auditorium. 8 p.m. "Fall Chorale Concert.~ Uttle Theatre. Saint Mary'sCollege. Sponsored by S~t Mary's College. 

Hair 
Cut 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. © 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
Saint Mary's 
Chinese Bar Prime Rib Cheese Pizza 
.. 
ACROSS 
1 "Thanks-!" 5 Data-converting 
device 10 First victim 14Arp's art 15 Houston's The 
Summit, e.g. 16 Winning margin 17 Count calories 18 Golf great 19 Bag type 20 Actor Tom's 
vacation? 23 Bus. degree 24Chris 
attachment 25 Cakes' partner 28 Eight in 9 Down 
31 More unpredictable 35Causea ho-hum 37 Rake 39 Papal headgear 40 Actor Jeff's dental work? 43Walking­(elated) 44 Raison d'­45 Orgs. of sorts 46 Aunts, in Aries 48Mediocre 50 Jeanne d'Arc, e.g. 51 Wine combiner 53 Degs. for trestle builders 
55 Actress Kathleen's old master? 
• 

.... 
Sports 
page 16 
RICH KURZ 
Eye in the Sky 
A national championship game 
would help the Irish 
After the performance of the Irish football team the past two weekends, are there any Notre Dame fans who don't really want a national championship playoff system? 
The Irish walked all over a Boston College team that looked like it left its
• 
first-string players at home. Then came this past weekend. 
Notre Dame looked like the team we seniors saw as freshmen and for the pre-Stanford game part of the 1990 season. It played with a swagger that hasn't been seen here in some time and recaptured the feeling that no matter what the odds, the Irish would find some way to win. 
As Rick Mirer pointed out after the game Saturday, this is the Irish team people, including the team, were talking about and expecting during the preseason. Notre Dame is hitting its stride at just about the time it counts in most other sports-the end of the season. 
Meanwhile, one has a sneaking suspicion that several of the teams ahead of the Irish in the Associated Press poll aren't quite as good as their record, or ranking, indicates. 
Michigan, which played like gangbusters after tying the Irish here in South Bend, tied Illinois last Saturday and barely beat lowly Purdue two weeks earlier. The Wolverines are clearly on their way down. 
The Crimson Tide of Alabama has been running up some impressive scores-against some pretty unimpressive teams. 'Barna had to scramble to beat a Mississippi State team that was playing with its fourth­string quarterback after letting the Bulldogs back in the game. Odds are that the Tide will go out in one of the next few weekends, with games against Auburn and Florida or Georgia in the Southeastern Conference title game looming. 
And what needs to be said about Texas A&M? If the Aggies had played any of the Top 25 teams this year, odds are they would not be among the ranks
.. 
of the undefeated. The Aggies better watch out for the Texas Longhorns in a couple of weeks. 
Even the 'Canes have had to scratch out three wins, narrowly defeating Florida State, Penn State and Arizona. 
So how about a playoff? Here's a way the importance of the bowl games would remain, while deciding which team should take all of the marbles. 
First, limit all teams to 11 regular­season games, ending no later than Thanksgiving weekend. Then pick the top eight teams, using either the AP poll or an NCAA selection committee. 
These teams would then be seeded, and the first round of playoff games could be played the first weekend in December at the stadium of the higher­seeded team. The following week, the winners would play within their bracket at a neutral site. 
By scheduling the games the first two 
see PLAYOFF I page 13 
'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
INSIDE SPORTS 
IIWomen's lH championship 
see page 14 
•eowe-Lewis may be on hold 
seepage 11 "' see page 11 
• 

Tuesday, November 17, 1992 
Irish volleyball faces Cardinals again 
By DAN PIER hopes alive for an at-large bid. Sports Writer A Metro Conference champi­onship could also earn 
The Notre Dame women's Louisville a spot. volleyball team will hit the road Barring a late stumble, Notre for a tough non-conference Dame (27 -5) has an NCAA match at Louisville tonight in berth wrapped up, either preparation for Friday and Sat­through an MCC Tournament urday's Midwest Collegiate championship or an at-large Conference Tournament. Notre bid. Being ranked 21st na­Dame needs a win over the tionally and number four in the Cardinals to solidify its claim to Mideast region, the Irish aim to a high seed in the NCAA win the rest of their matches so Tournament, which starts as to secure a seed in the top December 3. half of the eight-team regional. 
Notre Dame met Louisville Going into the Louisville early in the season in the Big match, Brown expects no sur­Four Classic at the Joyce ACC. prises. Her teams have beaten The Irish prevailed in a heated Louisville in three close contest, 15-6, 15-6, 5-15, 13-matches during her two sea­15, 15-7. Irish head coach sons at the helm, so Brown and Debbie Brown imagines things her players are familiar with will be different in Cardinal the Cardinal attack. country. "Unless they come out with 
"They just lost a good five­something really new, we will game match to Kentucky this not be surprised," the coach week," Brown said, "and they explained. "It should come had a very large and very loud down to execution." crowd there. I'm sure that will be the case again when they The Irish will rely heavily on play us. It's a key match for middle blockers Jessica them." Fiebelkorn, Cynthia May, and 
Louisville (21-8), ranked 10th Molly Stark to exploit the in the NCAA South region, has Louisville defense. Outside an outside chance to make the hitter Marilyn Cragin has also NCAA Tournament. Approxi­performed well against the 
The Observer I Scott Mendenhall 
mately eight teams from each Cardinals in the past. region are invited, so the Car­Louisville's Shannon Misek isChristy Peters and the Irish volleyball team travel to Louisville dinals will need to upset the her team's most potent weapon, to take on the Cardinals tonight. 
Irish in order to keep their hitting from the outside slot. 
Zahm claims the inter-hall football crown 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR first fumble of the year, which was lead going into halftime, as Curtis Plaza Sports Writer recovered by Zahm on its own 35. batted down a pass and registered a sack as the first half ended. 
Relying on a tenacious. defense and Following a 20-yard pass from Chris wide-open offense, Zahm ended Keenan's Hammond to Rick Rios and a ten-yard The second half was a hard-hitting bid at repeating as interhall champion, carry by Seng on third and one, Zahm defensive struggle, as Zahm refused to winning 14-0 at Notre Dame Stadium on was again in scoring position, but a pass give up its lead. Led by Bozanich. the Sunday and earning the title that eluded tipped by cornerback Jim Walsh was Zahm secondary was superb, as both Pat them last year. intercepted by Rich Toohey at the McDonough and Steve Misch came up 
Keenan five, ending the threat. with big tackles when isolated one-on­
In a game that keyed on turnovers, one with Keenan receivers in the flat. Zahm captain Matt Seng set the tone Behind the blocking of Scott Sauer on Bozanich also recovered Dettore's second early, intercepting a Matt Casey pass at the offensive line, Keenan again moved fumble of the game to end a Keenan the Keenan 30-yard line and returning it the ball behind Murphy and Dettore. drive. to the seven. On third down from the However, the Zahm defense stiffened, as one-yard line, Seng carried up the mid­Dave Bozanich drilled Dettore on a first The Keenan defense also played dle for the touchdown, following a down carry, inciting the Zahm defense to extremely well in the second half, as terrific lead block by guard Tim Ysura. register the game's first sack on the next Toohey registered his second 
crucial third down. interception of the game at his team's 28, ·Upon getting the ball back, Keenan Again with the ball, Zahm went to its and Dettore combined with Lee Walker 
moved effectively on the ground, as quick strike attack, as Hammond lofted a on a sack to force a Zahm punt that was tailbacks Brian Murphy and Dave Dettore perfect pass to a wide open Rios for almost blocked, as coach Matt Makowski each broke off long gains. However, the Zahm's second touchdown, a 40-yard used the same special teams play that drive stalled as Dettore committed his completion. The Zahm defense held the 
see IH I page 14 
Fencing opens with the Penn St. Open 
Irish forced to compete without their top male and female foilists 
By KEVIN JANICKI team's number-one foilist not Sports Writer only played into the foil-event results, but his leadership 
The Notre Dame fencing was missed at the squad had hoped to use this tournement. weekend's Garret Penn St. Open individual tournement The highest Notre Dame to better determine where finisher in the men's foil was their top fencers stood Jordan Maggio while Stanton against the nation's best. Brunner and Conor Power However, two of the top Irish finished 28th and 37th fencers did not even compete respectively. The women's due to last minute problems. foil event proved a bit better 
for the Irish. Freshman Hungarian exchange Claudette de Bruin made the final round, finishing fifth out
s t u d e n t M a r i a Panyi 's 
eligibility was yet to be of 88. Kathleen Vogt took a determined as of this lOth-place finish, missing the weekend, preventing her final round by just one touch. from taking part in the tournement. Panyi may very All-American James Talia­well be the country's finest ferro was definitely a bright collegiate women's foilist. spot for the Irish this 
weekend, finishing third 
Foilist captain Jeff Piper overall among 70 competitors was also unable to make the in the sabre event. trip due to bone spurs in his "It's a great finish for him knee. His absence as the 
see FENCE I page 14 






