

The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO.2 TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Newly revised University rules restrict food, drink in library 
By STEPHEN ZAVESTOSKI Assistant News Editor 
A University task force was in­volved in developing a revised food and drink policy for the University's libraries this summer. 
According to Sonja Jordan, assistant librarian and head of the task force, the policy, which prohibits food and drink in ar­eas of the library other than the pit, has always existed; the task force's aim was to develop a means of enforcing the policy. 
"The policy has been around since the 80s," said Jordan, "but it was never enforced be­cause we really didn't have any problems until the last couple of years." 
The problems, according to .Jordan, have been limited to isolated incidents, but never­theless have caused a threat to the University's library collec­tions. She added that the in­creased use of the library by both graduate and undergrad­uate students, although a posi­tive change, has also lead to complaints from students that, due to eating and socializing, the library has become less conducive to studying, and bonks are being damaged or destroyed. 
According to Jordan, as well as a flyer published by the Uni­versity Libraries, "in order to 
Pangborn opens its doors to its first female residents 
By DAVID KINNEY News Editor 
The staff and new residents of Pangborn Hall are looking for­ward to "starting the year with an open attitude," said Rector Cathy Lohmuller, after the dorm was converted from a men's to a women's dorm this summer. 
Among the 187 women moving into the dorm this week are 102 freshmen, 40 transfer students and 37 upperclassmen moving from other halls. 
"We would like the opportunity to establish ourselves," she said. Doing that will involve overcoming the difficulties of beginning a new tradition as a female dorm. 
Some men who lived in Pang­born last year have come through the dorm in recent weeks, and Lohmuller said she expects "a whole spectrum of attitudes about the change," and wants to be sensitive to those feelings. 
Resident Assistant Nicole Lamborne said some men who lived in Pangborn last year don't blame the new residents, but are disappointed about the changes. 
"It didn't look like their dorm anymore," she added. 
Some former residents now living in Sorin said they want to come back and plan with the hall this year, said Lohmuller. 
Lohmuller, who served as as­sistant rector in Lyons Hall in reduce avoidable maintenance problems, to help insure the proper preservation of library materials, and to prevent the disruption of the study and re­search functions of the Univer­sity Libraries, the Food and Drink Policy is strictly en­forced." 
Jordan said along with the fly­ers, the library has posted signs to remind library users that no food or drink is allowed. 
"There will be some who will say 'Oh fine, this will restore order and peace to the library,"' said Jordan, "and others who will see it as a personal inconvenience. We're hoping most will see it as a rational decision and say 'O.K."' 
The rationality in the decision, according to Jordan, lies in the fact that along with an effort to conserve our natural resources, we should also make a concerted effort to preserve our intellectual heritage. 
"If we don't protect our collec­tions now, someone will have to pay for it down the line," said Jordan. 
But the process of developing the revised food and drink pol­icy was not an easy one. Following an initial misunderstanding between Bong Miquiabas, a student senator, and the task force, student input became a part of the final policy. 
1990-91, said she has received help from other rectors getting acclimated to the job. She has also talked about joint projects with other dorms, including Fisher hall. 
The physical changes to the dorm are "minimal," she said. 
Although student rooms were left unchanged, several addi­tions make the dorm similar to other female dorms on campus, said project coordinator Doug Miller. 
Among the new features: 
• 
A pool room was converted to a laundry room. 

• 
A kitchenette was installed near Pangborn's social space. 

• 
Bathrooms and showers were redone. 

• 
A handicap bathroom with a bathtub was built on each floor and a handicap ramp was in­stalled at the front entrance. Miller said this was done to comply with the American Dis­abilities Act, which requires that all major building renova­tions include revisions to ac­commodate the handicapped. 

• 
All hall carpets were re­placed. 

• 
Stops were placed on ground floor windows for added secu­rity. 

• 
Crews replaced piping in the hall. 


Some of the renovation was not necessary for the conversion to a women's dorm but for the good of the building, Miller said. 
Last spring, when Miquiabas learned that his position on the task force was to aid in the im­plementation and not the for­mulation of the policy, he with­drew his name from the task force in protest. 
According to Molly O'Neill, student body vice president, Miquiabas and herself were in­vited back on the task force to work out a fair and consistent policy. Following several meet­ings this summer, the task force completed a revision of the existing policy which included the input of O'Neill and Miquiabas. 
"We decided that it was in the students' best interest to have a policy that protected the li­brary's collections," O'Neill said. But she added that, although the eating and drink­ing of candy and sodas can go on in the library without dam­aging any of the collections, a problem of defining appropriate foods and enforcing the prohibition of those foods in the library would arise unless a line was drawn at no food at all. 
One change in the policy O'Neill and Miquiabas success­fully bargained for was a con­sistent policy-one that applied to undergraduates, graduates and faculty alike. Initially, ac­cording to O'Neill, the policy would have allowed graduate students to eat in their carols. 


Andrew slams South Florida; Heads toward New Orleans 
MIAMI (AP)-Hurricane An­drew struck southern Florida on Monday with 160-mph winds and a 12-foot tidal surge that flattened homes, uprooted trees and flung boats onto leafy streets. Then the storm blew into the Gulf of Mexico on a path toward New Orleans. 
The hurricane, the most powerful to strike Florida in more than 60 years, was blamed for at least eight deaths in the state. There also were three confirmed deaths in the Bahamas, hit by the storm on Sunday. 
It was expected to reach land again sometime Tuesday night or Wednesday morning. A hur­ricane warning was posted from Pascagoula, Miss., to Vermillion Bay, La. 
The storm left 1. 3 million people without electricity in Florida. 
"There was complete devas­tation. It's like building blocks, and somebody comes along and steps on it all," Dade County Manager Joaquin Avino said of the worst-hit suburbs southwest of downtown Miami. 
As weak sun broke through in late afternoon, a swath of destruction in residential sub­divisions and farm communities became evident. On the waterfront, a forest of spindly Australian pine bordered by coconut palms at the southern tip of Key Biscayne was de­nuded. 
The worst destruction ap-


Flipping burgers 

Food Service employees grill some hamburgers for the Taste of Notre Dame yesterday afternoon. · 
i 
• 
Bush visits area I page 6 

• 
Insurance costs/ page 9 


peared to be in and around the town of Homestead, a farm and retirement community about 25 miles southwest of Miami that also is -or was -home to Homestead Air Force Base. 
"Homestead Air Force Base no longer exists," said Toni Ri­ordan, a spokeswoman for the state Community Affairs De­partment. 
In Washington, Navy Cmdr. Mike Thurwanger said every building at Homestead was ei­ther destroyed or damaged, and two F-16 fighters were de­stroyed when a hangar door swung onto them. He said no casualties were reported. 
There was some looting and arrests in the Homestead area, but Metro-Dade police spokesman Donald Blocker said, "There's not much left of Homestead for anybody to loot -a lot of devastation." 
AP/Rosa Taro 

The entire county was put under a 7 p.m.-to-7 a.m. cur­few. President Bush authorized federal disaster assistance and flew to Florida, where he got into a police Jeep for a tour of damaged areas. 
Andrew smashed ashore about 25 miles south of down­town Miami before dawn, with sustained winds of 140 mph and gusts of 164 mph or more. The blasts of tropical air were strong enough to strip the paint off houses. 
In the worst-hit areas, south of Miami and slightly inland, the storm ripped off roofs and left streets blocked by uprooted trees, utility poles, siding and live electrical wires. 
The inland area wasn't cov­ered by a pre-storm evacuation order that covered more than 1 million people. 
"We have some confirmed deaths -eight so far," said Fred Taylor, head of the Metro-
see ANDREW I page 6 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The grass is greener on the other quad 
The  university  made  
some nice improvements  
around campus over the  
summer, but the decision  
to put sidewalks across  
South Quad leading to the  
dining hall was not a good  
one  from the student's  
perspective.  (No  more  John Rock  
South Quad football).  Managing Editor  
Not one person I have  

talked to has had anythin!!--------­positive to say, except that it might saves ten seconds of walking time, since pedestrians can cut through the quad, rather than walk around the grass. 
Anyone on South Quad knows that the students there enjoy these areas for recreation, study and sun bathing. While we can still lay out for sun, nobody is going to lay out for a catch knowing there could be a nice slab o concrete to eat. 
Why would the university spend the money to construct a road through our football field? Maybe to save a buck in the long run. 
Admittedly, the quads get pretty torn up after weeks of use, but we have gotten along so far with that turquoise spray-on grass stuff. Besides, the golf course takes its share of abuse, but we don't see cement tee-off areas. 
Wait a minute, one may say. The golf course is a source of revenue, whereas the quad costs money. Maybe they could tear out the sidewalks, build a fence around the quad and charge five bucks to play on it, only fifty bucks for the fall semester. 
No that's not a very good idea. 
Maybe a solution that would benefit both the school and its student body would be to take out all the grass and replace it with artificial turf. They could call it Domerturf, patent it and sell it at the bookstore marked up , oh, five hundred percent. 
This is a pretty good idea. They wouldn't have to mow, spray, or water it. They wouldn't have to poke those goofy holes in it and leave dirt pellets everywhere; just sweep it off after football weekends. Now that's how to save and make money. 
Actually, that's not a good idea either,. 
Maybe the students should boycott the sidewalk-just not walk on it. Walk to the dining halls the old way and send a message that Notre Dame students like grass. 
Honestly though, the real issue here is not really the quad, but the move by someone, presumably in the domed building, to do this without really notifying students or even asking for student input. 
The best response, then, is to boycott those silly sidewalks. 
While the money spent to repair the grass was probably the main reason for the move, it does not appear that the concerns of the students were addressed in making the decision. 
Such decisions do not coincide with the idea o this being a university for students, but rather a business for the bosses. 
Surely not all the bosses wanted to oust our natural turf, but some people did. I'm sure everyone appreciated all efforts that tried to halt this heinous crime. 
Maybe we can still play football there, but i we do, it may be a parking lot next year. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
News: Becky Barnes Bevin Kovalik Paul Pearson Sports: Rolando deAguiar Viewpoint: Cheryl Moser Accent: Cheryl Moser Production: Melissa Cusack Cynthia Ehrhardt Systems: Harry Zembillas Lab Tech: Jake Peters 
r 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction


l _:rere­
luesaay,August~o. 1~~~
The Observer
« 


The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Aug. 25. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY © 1992 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Pressure 

H L ~ ~ CtiJ [3 EZ3 a 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
CAMPUS 

Saint Ma~·s scholar selected 
•NOTRE D ME-Nicole Brunette, a Saint Mary's student from Granger, Ind., has been selected as a 1992 Barry Goldwater Scholar. Brunette, a biology major who will be a senior at Saint Mary's this fall, is one of 300 Goldwater Scholars chosen this year from more than 1,700 nominees nationwide. She is the first Saint Mary's student to receive the scholarship, and is eligible for up to $7,000 in support for tuition, fees, books, and room and board during the upcoming academic year. The scholarships are awarded annually by the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation to students majoring in the mathematics and natural science fields. 

INDIANA 

NO erwjneerjn~ professor dies 


OF INTEREST 
• 
NO Communication and Theatre will hold an or­ganizational meeting Wednesday at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. All students interested in participating in technical, publicity or preforming positions are invited to attend. 

• 
Phone books are available today and tomorrow from 8 a.m.-12 p.m. and from 1-5 p.m. at the Student Government Office (second floor LaFortune). 



FORECAST~ 
Partly cloudy and warm today with a 30 percent chance of thundershowers. Highs from the middle to upper 80s. Partly cloudy Wednesday and highs in the lower 80s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City H IL Anchorage 62 61 Alheno 117 77 Atlanta 84 70 
84 48 lloolon 85 65 Cairo 111 73 Charlotte 84 68 Chlc.ogo 88 611 Cleveland 83 68 Dalla 114 73 Detroit 82 611 lndiaMpolll 83 70 
82 S6 
~ 
London 68 55 
-
Loa Ang.­81 611 lladrld 110 64 IIIMeapolil 87 68 
lloocow  67  50  
Nuhllille  86  70  
-YOlk  85  65  
Parll  75  64  
Phft..telphla  83  63  
Rome  88  68  
Seattle  711  411  
South Bend  86  65  
Tokyo  111  81  
Wuhlngton, D.C.  83  63  


NATIONAL 

Stroke claims life of professor 
•NEW 
YORK-Max Lerner, a liberal syndicated columnist, author and former professor of American studies at Notre Dame, died of a stroke at a hospital June 5. He was 89. Lerner was born in Minsk, Russia, in 1902 and came to the United States five years later with his parents. Lerner held the Harold and Martha Welch chair in American studies at ND from 1982 to 1984. He is survived by three daughters from his first marriage and three sons from his second. He is also survived by 10 grandchildren and three great­grandchildren. 

• 
The Snite Museum of Art and the South Bend Regional Museum will offer staff assistant training classes on Thursdays, beginning in September and running through May. Classes will meet in the museums Thursdays from 9 a.m. until 2 p.m. For more information, contact the education coordinator at the Snite at 239-5466. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1944: French tanks led~llied troops in a triumphant march into Paris. 

• 
In 1949: RCA announced the invention of a system for broadcasting color television. 

• 
In 1964: Kenneth Kaunda was elected the first president of the independent nation of Zambia. 

• 
In 1976: Raymond Barre became premier of France, replacing Jacques Chirac, who resigned the position. 

• 
In 1986: A cloud of toxic gas erupted in Cameroon, killing 1,200 people. 


~----~ ---~ --------------~--­
lilt: UU::it::IVt::l 
page 3 

Tuesday,August25, 1992 

DeBartolo Building puts ND 'on the cutting edge' 
The Observer/ Marguerite Schropp The newly constructed DeBartolo Classroom Building combines computer technology and undergraduate education~ This year many students will have the opportunity to learn in this building. 
Make your dorm room or apartment LOOK LIKE HOME LARGE SELECTION OF GENTLY USED FURNITURE 
& 

CARPET REMNENTS at our 
Expanded USED FURNITURE DEPT. 
1805 WESTERN AVE. 
Convinient Shopping Hours: Mon-Thur 9 a.m.-7 p.m. Fri 9 a.m.-8 p.m. 

Sar 9 a.m.-6 p.m. ,_,,,.,.,.,,,,___,_..,,,,,,,,_.,,,,,,,,._.,<· Sun noon-5 p.m. ~~ FURNITURE j: good . !t....:.:~.~~~~:.~.Eo :: • 
wj))--Checks & Cash too! 
Fast • Hot • Perfect 




271•1.1.77 
Serving Notre Dame, St. Mary's & South Bend area 
... -------------,----------------,
1 I I  1·14" Large 1 Topping  S6H T + ax  I I I  2·14" Large Siftti I • ~ax I1 Topping :  
:  Pizza  .... :  Pizza  .... :  
I  Additional Toppings .95¢ each Not Valid With Any Other Coupon  I  Additional Toppings .95¢ each Not Valid With Any Other Coupon  I  


L-----------------1----------------~ 
By DAVID KINNEY News Editor 
Notre Dame's new Edward DeBartolo Classroom Building integrates multi-media and computer technology into the educational environment, putting the University "right on the cutting edge," said Sister Elaine DesRosiers, director of educational media. 
"This is something that a lot of universities are coming to look at," said Lisa Berg, assis­tant director of campus clusters at the Office of University Com­puting. 
The project cost $22 million to complete. DeBartolo donated $16 million to the building, part of a $33 million gift to Notre Dame in 1989, the largest in the history of the University, according to Dennis Brown, assistant director of public relations. 
With 84 classrooms ranging from 20-seat seminar rooms to a 450-seat auditorium, the 156,000 square foot DeBartolo Building gives professors the opportunity to tap into as many as six media presentations at the touch of a button. 
The heart of the building is a Media-on-Call system, which connects classrooms to a Master Control center, DesRosiers said. The fiber optic network will eventually let professors pre-schedule a variety of media sources, including videocasettes, satel­lite transmissions and televi­sion. 
"We already have a large 
number of professors who use 
media presentations," said 
DesRosiers, "and we expect it 
to increase." She predicts that 
at least 40 rooms will be using 
the Media-on-Call system on a 
daily basis. 
The University is now in the 
process of converting 54 old 
classrooms for other uses, 
primarily for office space, ac­
cording to Brown. With the 
completion of the new facility, 
Notre Dame has 175 class­
rooms on campus. 
The building also offers: 
• 
A Learning Resource Cen­ter, including ten video carrels for individual viewing and four small-group viewing areas with space for six people in each. 

• 
Two computer classrooms with a total of 30 Macintosh and 30 DOS stations. The Freshman Writing Program plans to use collaborative writ­ing software in the Macintosh classroom, said Berg. 

• 
A first-floor computer clus­ter that contains 78 computers, including 52 Macintosh com­puters and 26 IBM PS-2 com­puters. The cluster will be open 24 hours on weekdays starting Sept. 7, according to Berg. 

• 
Four rooms that can connect with the satellite uplink at WNDU to originate a teleconference. 



The building is the second of 
a projected four-building quad­

rangle on the south end of 
Notre Dame's campus. The 
Hesburgh Center for Interna­
tional Studies on the southwest 
corner of the quadrangle was 
completed last year. 
Work will begin in June 1993 
on a new business school com­
plex just south of the DeBartolo 
building. The remaining $17 
million of DeBartolo's gift will 

go toward the construction of 
the Marie DeBartolo Center for 
Performing Arts. 

Despite reports in the Wall Street Journal last February about DeBartolo's financial dif­ficulties, Dennis Brown of pub­lic relations said that there have been no reports that De­Bartolo will not be able to meet his pledge. 
page 4 Tuesday,August25, 1992 

Here is what the University is doing to protect you: 
+ University security and police officers provide 24-hour foot and vehicular patrols on the campus property. Additionally, security personnel are stationed at the East and Main Gates 24 hours every day. 

+ Eighteen Emergency Call 
Stations have been located in peripheral parts 
of campus; these phones should be used to report 
suspicious activity or crimes to the Security/Police Department. Telephones are also located at the main entrance of residence halls. Contact security/police by dialing 283-4444 or 239-5555. You may also summon assistance by calling 9-1-1 from any pay telephone on campus. 
+ Campus lighting has been increased. The University is continuing to evaluate the sufficiency 
of lighting on campus. 
+The SafeWalk program provides an escort to or from any point on campus. The service is free and confidential. Hours are 8 p.m. to 2a.m. (After hours escorts are provided by security officers.) Don't walk alone, call 283-BLUE (283-2583) for SafeWalk. 
+ The second floor of the Campus Security Building is available for all-night or late­night study. 
• 
During past years, Notre Dame students have been victims of a number of assaults in the off-campus area south of the University. 

• 
The principal area of concern is indicated on the map below, but other attacks have occurred east and north of campus. 


+ The number of violent crimes on University property remains relatively low, but reports have been made of individuals who have been accosted along St. Mary's Road, St. Joseph's Lake and the parking lots east of Juniper Road. 
+ 
University security/police personnel are available for crime prevention programs, discussions and/or consultations both on and off campus. Off-campus programs are cooperative efforts with the South Bend and St. Joseph County Police Departments. 

+ 
Officials from the City of South Bend and the University meet on aregular basis to work together to make the South Bend ­Notre Dame community safer. 


Here is what you can do to protect yourself: 
+ 
Assaults have occurred in the area south of campus and in the peripheral areas of campus. If at all possible, avoid those areas after dark. 

+ 
Don't over consume alcohol. Alcohol dulls your judgment and awareness and slows your reflexes. 



+ 
Use good sense. Don't provoke or otherwise instigate an incident. Avoid large threatening groups of unfamiliar people. 

+ 
Be aware of your surroundings at all times. Is there someone in front of you or behind you? Does someone appear to be following you? If aperson ahead of you appears threatening, cross the street. 

+ 
Don't walk alone. Avoid dark areas. Try to travel in groups. Note, however, some reported incidents have 
involved victims walking in groups of two or three. 

+ 
If driving acar, park in well-lit areas and lock your doors. 

+ 
Use the SafeWalk escort service on campus from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. by calling 283-BLUE (283-2583); at other times call Notre Dame Security at 283-4444. 

+ 
If you are avictim, don't threaten or pursue your attacker. Try to get agood description and immediately report it to police. On campus, call 283-4444 or 239-5555. Off campus, call 9-1-1 . 

+ 
Learn more about crime prevention strategies by participating in or sponsoring acrime prevention program available through Notre Dame Security/Police or area police agencies. 

+ 
Take responsibility for your personal safety and the safety of others by BEING ALERT AT ALL TIMES. Immediately report suspicious activity or crime to the police. 






If you see trouble on or off campus, report it! On Campus, Call283-4444 or 239-5555-Off Campus, Call9·1·1 
This message is brought to you by the Office of Student Affairs and the Notre Dame Security/Police Department 

T_u_e_s_d_a_y,_A_u_g_u_s_t_25_,_1_9_9_2____________________________________._··-~_v_u_~_-~_·v_~_·__________________________________________________p_a_g_e_5 ~ 
Death claims members of Notre Dame community 
1 
1

NO professor emeritus Fischer dies at age 77 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Associate News Editor 
Edward Fischer, professor emeritus of journalism and American studies at Notre Dame, died on Aug. 10 at St. Joseph's Care Center in South Bend. He was 77. 
Fischer, a 1937 graduate of Notre Dame, was born Aug. 17, 1914, in Buechel, Ky. He joined the ND faculty in 1947 after writing for the South Bend News-Times and the Herald­Examiner of Chicago. Before teaching at ND, he taught jour­nalism at St. Joseph's College in Renesselaer, Ind. 
Fischer wrote 14 books, in­cluding "A Chancy War," and "Notre Dame Remembered," his autobiography. He also wrote and starred in a television series on film study produced in Hollywood. 
Thomas Stritch, professor emeritus of American studies at ND, called Fischer a highly suc­cessful teacher who "taught both writing and design in in­novative ways." 


Edward Fischer 

Fischer's wife, Mary, a civic leader and host of a public tele­vision show, died Aug. 7, 1991. Both Edward and Mary donated their remains to medical science. 
Fischer is survived by two sons, John of St. Petersburg, Fl., and Thomas of Albu­querque, N.M.; two grandchil­dren; and a sister, Bertha Fis­cher of Louisville, Ky. 
Donations in Fischer's honor may be made to the Edward Fischer Memorial, Department of American studies, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
The University Libraries of Notre Da1ne welco1ne the Class of '96 and all other new and returning 1ne1nbers of the Notre Da1ne co1n1nunity. 
For your convenience and while classes are in session, the Hesburgh Library building is open until: 

2:00 a.1n. 

For Orientation Tours or UNLOC Instruction 
inquire at Hesburgh Library Reference Desk: 
239-6258 


Please help us protect our collections and equipment by observing the University Libraries' Food and Drink Policy. 
Searle, theology professor, dies after fight with illness 


By PAUL PEARSON 
Associate News Editor 
Mark Searle, associate profes­sor of theology at Notre Dame, died Aug. 16 in his home in Niles, Mich., after .a bout with illness. He was 51. 
A native of Bristol, England, Searle joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1978, specializing in pastoral liturgy and ritual stud­ies. He also served as associate director of Notre Dame's Center for Pastoral Liturgy, editing its publication "Assembly" from 1978 to 1984. 
In 1983 Searle was elected president of the North Ameri­can Academy of Liturgy. 
Searle coordinated Notre Dame's graduate program in liturgical studies, and he di­rected the master's degree program in theology from 1983 to 1988. 
r.w'l A Public Service of the USDA Forest Service ~ and State Forester. 

Taco Bell Presents 

AMERICA'S ROCK 'N' ROLL BAND 
See them two way~LECTRIC... THEN ACOUSTIC!' 

Mark Searle 

In addition, Searle wrote or edited seven books, including the textbook "The Church Speaks About Sacraments with Children." He also wrote the script for "Priestly People," a popular video on liturgy. 
Searle married Barbara Schmich in 1980. She survives with their children Anna, Matthew, and Justin, his par­ents, seven sisters, and two brothers. 
IIOliT 
ONLY YOU CAN PREVENT FOREST FIRES

• 
~­

page 6 1ne uoserver luesday,AugustLo, 1~~L 

Andrew 
continued from page 1 
Dade police department. Fire­rescue officials reported 350 injury calls in Dade County but said they didn't know how seri­ous they were. 
There were reports of four hurricane-related deaths in the Bahamas, where the storm hit Sunday. The Nassau Tribune, a newspaper on the islands, said it had confirmed three of them. Patricia Glynton, a spokeswoman for the state-run Bahamas News Service, said authorities were still investigat­ing. 
The storm still had sustained winds up to 140 mph as it headed into the Gulf of Mexico. Forecasters posted a hurricane warning or watch for much of the southern U.S. coast from Alabama to Texas. Meteorolo­gist Bob Rau said he expected the winds to maintain the same intensity. 
New Orleans lay close to the center of Andrew's path. People there stocked up on batteries, flashlights and other emergency supplies. 
At 5 p.m. EDT, Andrew's center was about 470 miles southeast of New Orleans and moving west at 18 mph. 
The Category 4 hurricane was the worst to hit Miami since 1926, said forecaster Max Mayfield at the National Hurri­cane Center in suburban Coral Gables, where the radar dishes tipped over the edge of the rooftop. Gusts hit 164 mph be­fore breaking the measuring device. 
The worst-hit areas of South Florida were sealed off, with even residents ordered to stay out. Those wishing to leave could do so only under police escort. Chiles rushed 1,500 National Guard troops to ring Miami's Coconut Grove, Home­stead and other areas after re­ports of sporadic looting. 
Getting into the damaged ar­eas was difficult, anyway ­fallen signs and poles blocked major highways. 
The American Red Cross and state emergency officials sent trucks south to Miami filled with emergency supplies and drinking water. All Dade and Broward county residents were asked to boil water for fear of contamination. 
The power outages affected approximately one-third of the customers of Florida Power & Light, the state's largest utility. Utility officials warned that the outages could last for weeks in some remote areas. 
The company's Turkey Point nuclear power plant, brushed by Andrew's eye, was closed before the storm. A tank at an adjacent oil-fired electric plant ruptured, spilling 12,000 gal­lons of fuel into Biscayne Bay. 

Most of the 84,000 people who crowded into South Florida shelters were expected to re­turn home late Monday, but shelters in the most heavily damaged area were to remain open, said Skip Baird of the American Red Cross in Wash­ington. 
Florida's Gulf Coast was spared the serious damage suffered on the other side of the peninsula, authorities there said. 
"This was not the big one," said Gary Arnold, emergency operations manager for Collier County in southwestern Florida. 
Miami Beach's Art Deco trea­sures escaped the brunt of the storm, although the fashionable Fontainebleau Hilton hotel was left with 2 to 3 feet of water in its sunken lobby. 
Eisewhere, the storm left scenes of awful destruction. 
At suburban Tamiami airport, small planes were piled atop one another and hangars were ripped to shreds. "I don't think any of it is salvageable," Avina said. 
Miami International Airport was set to reopen Monday. 
For All Your Back-To-School Supplies 


IfYou're Not Shopping OfficelVIax, YouMayBePayingTooMuch! 
Over 6,000 Office Products, Furniture, Computers & Business Electronics Drastica.lly Disoounted Every Day! 
tilllliili SMITH 
illllllll CORONk 
Catalog Ust 
Price $599.99 
02·025891 
C8s1o J'X-6300G ScientificC&lculator 
• 
Scientific/Statistical Graph 

• 
Graph analysis functions (trace/plot/line/scroll) 

• 
Base calculations/logical 

• 
Standard deviation/ regression analysis 

• 
Instant replay 

• 
350 hour operation 

• 
3/8" X 2 7/8" X 5 1/2" 

• 
Slide-on hard case 


Catalog Ust Price $54.95 


$3999 
02.026471 OtficeMax Everyday Low Price 
Texas InstrumentsTI-38X ~~~l 
ScientificC&lculator 
• Math/Science/Computer Math and 
Statistical Analyses r----~.....JII ·Functions lndude logarithms, 
•a•• 

reciprocals, powers and roots, J!...,...lil ~ factorials, permutations 
:!save·£7.gE[
andmore. ..,ii -­
• 10-metric/English conversions ut.·_·fi!~~-~.~ 
• 8-physical constants •E!Jf!3 • 3-memories 
~= Ust Price $27.95 


$1999 
OfficeMax Everyday Low Price 

Serving the Michiana Area! 
MISHAWAKA/ SOUTH BEND 
WILSHIRE PLAZA Grape and Douglas Ads. Next to Builders Square. 
273-0328 
~riltlt 1•0fbU..tnc:. w.,..,..u.nghttalimlt~1tiii.Nit,.JDWWI lllrprintng 
-~........ 

i· 
Bush pays official visit to area of Florida hit hardest by Hurricane Andrew's winds 
MIAMI (AP) -President Bush toured hurricane-shattered neighborhoods of South Miami on Monday and assured families driven from their homes that federal officials "will do everything we can to help." 
The president said that he would send federal troops into southern Florida "to provide any emergency services," if requested by state authorities. 
Bush, whose tour included a Miami neighborhood hit by some looting, noted that Gov. Lawton Chiles had ordered the National Guard onto the streets and has "full confidence in them." Chiles also said he would impose a curfew. 
The president's motorcade took him past wrecked houses and shopping centers and over­turned tractor-trailers. In shirt sleeves and no tie in the tropi­cal heat, Bush walked through a parking lot littered with dead birds and toppled palm trees. 
"This is a matter of great na­tional concern," he said, as he stood next to mattresses spread on the floor of South Miami Se­nior High School, which had been converted into a rescue shelter. 

"When you have families hurting, I think it's important they know the president cares," he said. 
Bush was widely criticized in 1989 for what many saw as a slow response by the federal government after Hurricane Hugo struck the Carolinas. Seventy-one days before the election, he appeared deter­mined Monday to avoid a re­peat of that. He made a beeline here from a campaign trip in Connecticut instead of return­ing directly to Washington as planned. 
Standing outside a devastated record store, Bush said: "We came here to make sure the federal government will do ev­erything we can to ease the suf­fering of the people and l want to let the people know at this moment, this terrible moment, that all of us are concerned. 
"And I'll say to the people of Florida, the rest of America is here to back you in any way we can." 
"It's appalling," Bush said. "The estimates ... are prelimi­nary but they're in the billions," he said of damage reports received by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. 
"Then you think of the human suffering and the anxiety of families. That's the one that touches your heart." 
Bush said a disaster-response group had been formed in Washington consisting of all 27 federal agencies involved in providing emergency relief. Moreover, he said, a joint fed­eral field office would be estab­lished. 
"I am ready if necessary to move in units of the U.S. armed forces to provide any emer­gency services," he added. 
Earlier Monday, the president authorized federal disaster assistance for parts of Florida hit by the storm. White House Press Secretary Marlin Fitzwater said funds were ap­proved for Dade, Broward and Monroe counties end that other areas probably would be desig­nated later. 

-
~ 
Framed 
Cork 
Board 24" X 36" 
Catalog List 
Price $29.25 1Hl01-499 

18" :184" ---.. $8.87 
11·001480 

36" :1 48" ·-·$84.87 
._SANFORD..
11-001505 

<t====mmummmur c :%lJD
Save $1.66 

Sanford ZeZe Mechanical Pencil Rubberized cushion-soft grip. Oversized Tuff Stuff eraser. Retractable point. Built to last and refillable. ~429Catalog List Price $5.95 11 
10·017279 OfficeMax Everyday Low Price 
8 ~8" z 11" SCMLep!Pada ............$:U~8 ~ ~~~t Pries $15.00 
1 

Mead8-Bubjec:t Notebook ,__,,,_,__ .. $1.31 
Catalog List Pries $3.35 
06-016839 

J'akcutan••Lead..AmericanPacU ,_,sgo 
?~\~~t Price $2.00 
DeDDI.Ion m-Uter....---·-···"""""""''"""'go
Catalog List Pries 85e 
10.001712

Bic BoundSUo PeDII-...... __ , _________,_,,81 0 
Catalog List Pries $4.20 10.011 006 Black 
MakeOfficeMax Your Self-Service Copy Headquarters! 
• Belt Serve Copying 8 1/2" X11", 20 lb. white paper 
5¢ 
EachOne side. Compare at toe each. 

• Large quantity duplication 3 ¢ 
100 per original minimum 8 112' X 11', 20 lb. Each White Paper, one side. Compare at 7e each. OtherServlcu Available 
• 
Offset Printing • Rubber Stamps 

• 
Business Cards • NCR Forms 

• 
Letterhead/Envelopes • Fax Services 


Leading
Technology
386SX 88MB 88Mlls 
•386SX 25 MHz 
•H4B 
RAM 

•
85MB Hard Drive • VGA Monitor 


• Software includes • Mouse DOS 5.0, MS Windows •Duallloppy diSk drives 3.1, Spinnaker Works • 1year warranty 

~ri:$~~~.95 $99999
14-020141 
OfficeMax Everyday Low Price 

.,._ 

Dennison National 1 "B.lng BiDden 
8 1/2" X 11", double inside pockets Available in 7 colors. $
127

Catalog List Price $3.75 
04·004507 OfficeMax Everyday Low Price 
-~~ 

"*"'"l-.Ja 
*I 

Stanley Bostltch Stapler Kit Includes stapler, box of 5,000 staples and staple remover. 
Catalog List 

$496 

Price $18.75 
09-010303 Offi~e~ax Eve~;~'IY Low Pri.:..: 
STORE HOURS: Sun. 11 am · 6 pm • Mon. 1hru Fri. 8 am • 9 pm • Set. 9 am -9 pm ~ 


OfficelVIax®•• 

a 
Savings is the Bottom Line... arn 
1uesday, August 2o, 1~~2 
Allies plan 'no fly zan~' despite Iraqi_ objections 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­Iraq made a last-minute bid Monday to keep the United States and its allies from declaring a "no-fly zone" in southern Iraq, but Western powers were undeterred. Washington warned Iran to stay out of the dispute. 
Iraq's ambassador, Abdul al­Amir al-Anbari, met with rep­resentatives of the United States, Britain, France and Russia to object to plans to ban Iraqi aircraft south of the 32nd parallel, said sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Iraqi planes have reportedly attacked Shiite Muslims in the southern marshlands, and the allies plan to warn Iraq their planes could be shot down. President Bush is expected to announce the plan Tuesday. 
The restriction would effec­tively divide Iraq into three parts -the Shiite zone; a "safe haven" in the north set up by allies after the Persian Gulf War to protect Iraqi Kurds, and the center controlled by Saddam Hussein's Sunni Muslim gov­ernment. 
Details of Iraq's presentation Monday were not immediately available. It was believed, how­ever, to be an outline of Bagh­dad's objections to the restric­tions. 
Deputy U.S. Ambassador Alexander Watson and French Ambassador Jean-Bernard Merimee told reporters they intended to proceed with the "no-fly zone." 
"What he told us won't be of a nature to make us change our mind," Merimee said. 
In Washington, a U.S. source said the United States sent Ira­nian diplomats a letter warning them not to take advantage of limitations being imposed on the Iraqi military. Iran has armed and trained Shiites, many of whom oppose Saddam, and the "no-fly zone" could increase Iran's influence in the area. 
Iran and Iraq fought a 1980­88 war that claimed more than 1 million lives, according to some estimates. 
"This move will allow neigh­boring countries to send in ter­rorist elements ... There are training camps within the Ira­nian borders ready for opera­tions in case of such a division," Nabil Nejm, Iraq's rep­resentative at the Arab League, told reporters Sunday in Cairo, Egypt. 
Iran's U.N. ambassador, Kamal Kharrazi, asked about any U.S. warning, told The As­sociated Press, "I don't know about that. I've got to check." 
Publicly, Iran backed the principle of helping protect the Shiites from Iraqi attacks, but questioned the motives of the United States and its allies. 
The English-language Tehran Times asked last week: "What is the objective behind aerial defense of bits and pieces of parts of Iraq? If behind this attempt lurks the intention to partition Iraq, Iran under no circumstances can accept such a division and change of geo­graphical demarcations." 
1he uoserver page 1 

The Observer/ Marguerile Schropp

Back to the books! 
Notre Dame studenfs in the JACC enroll for the 1992-93 academic year and register for long distance telephone service. 

Serbs bar U.N. team from camp 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -A U.N. team in­vestigating alleged atrocities of the Bosnian war was refused entry into a prison camp, and the mission's leader on Monday accused the Serbs running it of covering up conditions inside. 
Former Polish Premier Tadeusz Mazowiecki arrived in Sarajevo one day after his team failed to gain access to the Manjaca camp at Banja Luka, about 100 miles to the north­west. 
Fighting in Sarajevo intensi­fied as night approached. Doc­tors at hospitals, coping with frequent electrical and water outages, reported six dead and 18 wounded in a new round of mortar and rocket attacks on the capital. 
The airport was reopened Monday. U.N. peacekeepers had closed it to aid flights over the weekend after shells hit the runway. 
In Brussels, Belgium, mean­while, NATO military authori­ties drew up new plans that sources said called for deploy­ing 6,000 soldiers to protect humanitarian aid shipments to Bosnia. 
Ambassadors of the 16 North Atlantic Treaty Organization nations will meet Tuesday to consider the plans, revised after an earlier draft for a larger mission of 100,000 soldiers was rejected. 
A peace conference sponsored by the European Community and the United Nations was set to open Wednesday in London. Attending were leaders of the warring Serbs, Croats and Muslims in Bosnia, as well as senior officials of Serbia and Croatia. 
Bosnia's majority Croats and Muslims voted for indepen­dence from Serb-dominated Yugoslavia on Feb. 29. Ethnic Serbs in Bosnia took up arms against that plan and now con­trol two-thirds of Bosnia­Herzegovina. 
At least 8,000 people have been killed in the conflict; some estimates put the number as high as 35,000. About 1.3 mil­lion have been made homeless, many in "ethnic cleansing" campaigns to drive unwanted ethnic groups from certain re­gions. 
Serb fighters reportedly hold about 7,500 people in camps; Croats and Serbs fewer than 2,000. 



Now Open at Campus Shoppes 
Worldts Greatest 
laundromat Gj~· i';; . 
1813 South Bend Ave. ~-~ l ~ ~-.a ',:.it~ 11--1_ ~ ()~ ~­
~ FREE ~~ ~~WASH 
Frvv Rvfrvshmvnts 
• 
Pool TableNideo Games 

• 
Big Screen TV 

• 
Snack Bar 

• 
No Smoking Section 

• 
Friendly Attendants 

• 
Dry Cleaning/Drop Off 


You Can Win 

• 
A Free Color TV 

• 
Dry Cleaning Service 


• 
Drop Off Laundry Service Enter Our Drawings! 


-COUPON-
Wotld., Gteate1t laundtomat 
1813 South Bend Ave., at Campus Shoppes Shopping Center 
(Behind Werntz Hardware) 
Open 7-Days 271-7675 7:00AM to 11:00 PM 
50% Off Any Drop-Off Laundry 
regular 65C a pound 
Same Day Service 





we c.are llair 



(Appt. Recomd.)  
Includes shampoo  
& conditioner.  
65 Years Total Experience Euro Tan Tanning Beds  Long hair & specialty wraps higher.  
luPl  
~  
--------­ 
-COUPON­ 

we c.are l1air ..~4
At Campus Shoppes 1811 South Bend Ave. 
Shopping Center HAIRCUT 
NO APPOINTMENT NECESSARY 


~~--------------~--1 
No Appointments

I 
-COUPON­
I 

~-----­
~---------------~-­
page tl 1he uoserver luesday,August2o, 1~~2 
Western fire Bush proposes $2 million job training program 
ANSONIA, Conn. (AP) 
can Party, according to cam­The centerpiece of Bush's
spread by 
-Plagued by high unemploy­paign spokeswoman Torie plan calls $3,000 vouchers for ment and a weak election-year Clarke. adults to use for retraining at economy, President Bush pro­Speaking in shirtsleeves at trade schools or community

wind 
posed a $2 billion-a-year pack­Warsaw Park in Ansonia, Bush colleges. These would go to 
ROUND MOUNTAIN, Calif. age of new and retooled job­railed against Clinton's eco­people who had lost their jobs, (AP) -Pre-dawn winds blew training programs Monday and nomic proposals, which he said been notified their jobs were new life into a 64,000-acre said they could be paid for included the largest tax in­being terminated, or who wildfire Monday. rousing hun­without raising taxes. crease in history. worked in declining industries dreds out of their beds and into "We can get everybody en­and wanted to sharpen their their cars as the flames jumped gaged in high-tech jobs with In a reference to the criticism skills. control lines in at least two this retraining approach," Bush he drew for breaking his no­places. promised at a campaign stop 71 new-taxes pledge in 1990, Bush Young men in work clothes at 
The 5-day-old fire already days before the presidential shouted, "Once you make one the Lincoln Technical Institute had destroyed more than 300 election. He said the $10 billion mistake you don't make it booed when Bush singled out homes, and hundreds more cost over five years would be again!" Clinton's idea to finance job
George Bush 

were in its path. paid for by cutting spending for Bush cut short his campaign training through the new tax on "A sheriff's deputy woke us other, unspecified federal Little Rock, Ark. "I think it's stop in Connecticut in order to employers. up at 4 a.m. and told us, 'Hey, programs. very difficult to take this seri­lly to Florida to inspect damage "He sees job training as a tax 
ously."

Get out! The fire's coming!"' from Hurricane Andrew. Poli­raiser and he wants to tax said Dave Buddy, 43, who lives Bush's announcement drew Clinton has proposed requir­ticking up to the moment he left workers to pay for their own near Oak Run in Shasta County. swift criticism from Democratic ing employers to spend an here, Bush shouted out to the training and tax small business 
In Idaho, meanwhile, fire­presidential candidate Bill Clin­amount equal to 1.5 percent of crowd as he boarded his -this is the one that's the fighters used a brief moment of ton, who said the president had payroll for job-training and ed­helicopter: "Help get a new worst -taxing small busi­cooler temperatures Monday as no way to finance his proposals. ucation programs for workers. Congress; help me clean the nesses around the country 1.5 they tried to cut off a 257,000-"He. just got through telling us Bush unveiled his plan at a House!" percent," Bush said, speaking to 
at the convention we were vocational training school in
acre fire about 30 miles east of about 700 students and faculty Boise. going to have huge tax cuts paid Union, N.J., before flying to Shouts of "No more Bush" members inside a cinderblock 
The Foothills fire reportedly for by huge spending cuts in Connecticut for a fund-raising competed with cries of "Four mechanics shop. destroyed Idaho's oldest pon­amounts to be unspecified, and luncheon in Middlebury and a more years," although the Bush said, "There is no point derosa pine tree and huge now he's come out with a huge speech to businessmen in An­crowd appeared to have more in training people for jobs if amounts of big game habitat, spending program," Clinton sonia. The lunch raised about Bush supporters than your plan is going to be in the 
said at a news conference in $100,000 for the state Republi-protesters. process of destroying jobs." 
as well as many deer and elk 
themselves. 
The blaze was slowed during the weekend by daytime tem­peratures that dropped from near 100 into the 70s, higher humidity and rain. 
"They're flanking the sides of the fire and they're going to try to pinch it off," Boise National Forest spokeswoman Kay Beall said. "This cooler weather has helped slow things down a lot, but we still have some erratic winds so the fire's still moving." 
Across Idaho, more than 5,000 firefighters continued working on fires that have burned across nearly 320,000 acres of forest and range. About 1,800 people were fighting the Foothills blaze, which entered its sixth day. Crews hoped to contain it by Sept. 6. 
In California, the 5-day-old Fountain fire breached de­fenses on at least two fronts, but authorities said thick smoke made it hard to say whether the blaze would reach hundreds of homes in subdivisions in its path. 
The fire destroyed 307 homes when it roared through Round Mountain and several other tiny communities about 200 miles northeast of San Francisco. It has blackened enough commercial timber to build 50,000 houses. 
Bulldozer crews cleared 80 miles of lines around the fire and containment was at 40 percent, the California Division of Forestry said. But winds of up to 25 mph were expected to worsen Northern California fire conditions in a region bone-dry from six years of drought. 
About 3,000 firefighters bat­tled the flames as they moved northeast into old-growth forests along the Pit River and southwest toward Mills Creek, Oak Run, Fern and other vil­lages. 
Elsewhere, forecasted winds from 25 to 30 mph and low humidity threatened to kick the 6,400-acre Barker fire over containment lines, said CDF Bob Buhrle. 
More than 1,200 firefighters managed to keep an 8,300-acre blaze in Inyo National Forest on the eastern slope of the Sierra Nevada from spreading into inhabited areas, fire spokesman Jeff Irons said. Fire bosses expected to extinguish the 5-day-old blaze by Satur­day. 

There's a lot more than a great a bon us book that's good for free Beyond all the bonuses, you'll calculator waiting for you when software, a free PC link cable have the right calculator for you purchase an HP 48SX oran and hundreds ofdollars back your most challenging classes. HP 488 between June 1, 1992, on applications-like electrical HP 48 calculators have over and October 31, 1992. You'll get and mechanical engineering­2100 built-in functions and 

memory cards, training tools, offer a unique combination of games, and HP's infrared printer. graphics and calculus. 
It's a really big offer. Worth more Head over to the campus book­than $500. And it's going to store now. After all, you don't make your HP 48 calculator even see this kind ofdeal every day. more valuable to you. The free HP calculators. The best for serial cable lets you exchange your success. information with your PC. And the free software disk lets you enterand plot equations easily, Ff/dl HEWLETT do 3D plotting, and analyze ~~PACKARD polynomials. 
01992 Hewlett-Packard Company PGI2203B 
$2.58  
- Lawyers, :.,,,,,,,,,,..:...:--lobbyists  
Clinton  
(in millions)  
Unknown  
$4.92  
Total:  
$11.82  
million  $1.47 Other'  $.423 Health  

IUesaay,AUQUStLO, l~~L 1 he Observer page~ 


Democratic wives fire back at Raising money 
Major industry and interest group contributions to the 
d

campaigns of Gov. Bill Clinton and President Bush through 
the end of May. The data reflect an estimated 58.2 percent 
of donors to Clinton's campaign and 51.5 percent to Bush's.

Republican character assaults 


Follow Douglas Road to: 50760 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-4500 
'Includes (in thousands of dollars) Construction, $528; agriculture, $702; energy and natural resources, $717; communications and electronics, $478; transportation, $419; single-issue groups, $58; labor $1; defense $60. 
Andrew costs companies 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Hillary Clinton and Tipper Gore fired back Monday at Republican as­saults on Mrs. Clinton and painted the GOP as a party that wants to bash "other people's families" rather than solve family problems. 
"They had their chance to talk about the future ... and in­stead they chose to make up stories and launch verbal grenades," Mrs. Clinton said in her first detailed reply to last week's attacks on her at the Republican National Conven­tion. 
She and Mrs. Gore gave a double-barreled response on Monday morning's talk shows, appearing on NBC's "Today" and "CBS This Morning" in in­terviews taped during the Clinton-Gore campaign's weekend bus tour of the Rust Belt. Also Monday, the two women were featured in a Ca­ble News Network spot. 
It was their first national ex­posure since last week's GOP convention in Houston, where President Bush's supporters focused on values and aimed much of their fire at Mrs. Clin­ton, a Yale-educated lawyer. 
Conservative Patrick Buchanan cast Mrs. Clinton as a radical feminist who likens marriage to slavery; Marilyn Quayle got in a more subtle dig, saying liberals are disappointed "because most women do not wish to be liberated from their essential natures as women." 
Mrs. Clinton told CBS that Mrs. Quayle's remark was "a bit of an insult to today's modern women, most of whom are working mothers and struggling very hard to balance their family's needs with the family's economic needs." 
Told that an aide to Mrs. Quayle boasted that the vice president's wife was always home for dinner by 7 p.m., Mrs. Clinton said: "Well, I'm very, very proud for her. And I wish that every family in America could have that kind of op­portunity." 
At the same time, Mrs. Clinton said she didn't want to get into a "rhetorical battle" with Mrs. Quayle. 
"There's no reason for us to be dividing women against women or men against women. This country needs people who want to reach beyond these 
boundaries and quit pointing fingers at one another," she said. 
Mrs. Clinton said the Republican charges against her were "so preposterous" it was difficult to respond. She said she didn't take the attacks per­sonally, dismissing them as typical Republican campaign tactics. 
"How could you get hurt by things that aren't true?" she asked. "It's a very calculated, unfortunate kind of political tactic.... But it doesn't affect us." 
Mrs. Clinton is a former board member of the Children's Defense Fund who for years has worked in Arkansas on programs to help preschoolers and reduce infant mortality. She and Democratic nominee Bill Clinton, the Arkansas governor, have a 12-year-old daughter, Chelsea. 
The Democrats' would-be second lady came to the defense of Mrs. Clinton over her writings on legal rights for children, which provided much of the fodder for the GOP at­tack. 

'Includes (in thousands of dollars) Construction, $250; agriculture, $184; energy and natural resources, $157; transportation, $81; single-issue groups, $60; labor $1 0; defense $9. 

NEW YORK (AP) -Hurricane Andrew will cost insurance companies plenty in a year al­ready marked by huge payouts. Companies got a jump on claims work Monday by sending emergency teams to Miami. 
With $775 million in property damage from the Los Angeles riots leading the way, 1992 is the third-worst year on record so far, according to the Insur­ance Information Institute. 
The fierce hurricane that hit Florida could make it the worst year ever. 
"We won't have numbers for a while on the damage itself, but it's obviously a significant storm that hit an area where there are high property values," said Michael Lewis, a senior insurance analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. 
Several major companies sent claims teams into the Miami area. 
Armed with mobile phones and laptop computers, more than 100 representatives of Aetna Life & Casualty and Con­tinental Insurance mobilized to assess damage and meet poli­cyholders. 
Insurers also set up toll-free phone lines and began placing newspaper and radio ads in damaged areas to direct cus­tomers through the claims-fil· ing process. 
"People are in dire straits, and we want to be responsive as possible," said Susan Ahley, a spokeswoman for New York­based Continental. 
Welcome Back Students 
We Haven't Missed A Beat 
Since You Left! T ues: 50% off Wed: Penny Cup Night 
8~2 a.m. Thurs: Dollar Night Velcro jumping Competition 
...... 
o.IACC 
0
0 


...And The 
"i., 

. 
'" Party Continues 

----....-~~ 

1150 Mishawaka Ave. South Bend, IN 288-0285 
1he Observer 





Israel expresses goodwill in new round of Mideast peace talks 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A new round of Mideast peace talks opened Monday with expres­sions of goodwill from Israel and statements from the Arabs that Israel's change in gov­ernment could set the stage for real progress. 
Syria, especially, was cheered by Israel's assertion that U.N. resolutions calling for territorial withdrawal applied to the Golan Heights, which Syria hopes to recover at the peace table. It apparently was the first time Israel had made the concession in the nearly 10 months of ne­gotiations. 
"We heard today a different tone ... a different approach and style and atmosphere" from the Israelis, said Syrian spokeswoman Bushra Kanafani. 
She said the Israelis were "reasonable and constructive" and had expressed a willing­ness to trade land for peace as outlined in U.N. Resolution 242. In previous rounds, Israeli-Syr­ian talks never got beyond cold recitations of positions on the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights. 
The Syrian spokeswoman said recovering the territory was "the main issue" for Damascus, and Syria's chief negotiator, Muwaffiq al-Allaf, said Israel must give up all land on all fronts that the Arabs lost in the 1967 Six-Day war. 
But Israeli sources said Ita­mar Rabinovich, the Israeli ne­gotiator, had not offered any in­
terpretation of the 1967 resolu­
tion and a parallel one adopted 
by the U.N. Security Council in 
1973. The sources said Israel 
had not offered to trade land 
for peace in the session. 
Meanwhile, Israeli spokesman 
Yossi Gal registered a mild 
objection to any 
"preconditions," but resisted a 
chance to reaffirm at a press 
conference Israel's determina­
tion to hold on to the strategic buffer zone. And he said con­cluding a peace treaty with Le­banon should be "relatively easy" because Israel had no "territorial designs" there. 
"There is a new reality in the Middle East," Gal said. "There are new realities in Israel." 
He urged the Arab side to avoid "waging a war of words" in public and offered to limit sessions with reporters as a way of making headway. 
Jordanian spokesman Mar­wan Mouasher concurred on the improved atmosphere fol­lowing June elections in Israel that led to hardliner Yitzhak Shamir being replaced by Yitzhak Rabin. 
"The Israelis for the first time talked about a comprehensive settlement, a term they have not used before, and we think that is a positive development," Mouasher said. 
As in four of the past five rounds beginning nearly a year ago, the State Department provided the setting, along with waiters in black tie to serve coffee and snacks. Expectations were heightened by a number of Israeli gestures, including the reversal of deportation orders for 11 Palestinian Arabs, in the first negotiations since Rabin became prime minister. 
"We see opportunities for real progress and we've urged all parties to come prepared with serious, substantive proposals," Joseph Snyder, a State Uepartment spokesman, said. 
But his statement also ac­knowledged that the negotiators were dealing with "complicated issues that cannot be resolved overnight." 
Syria, at the outset, made clear its objective was an Israeli withdrawal from the Golan Heights and all the other land the Arabs lost in the 1967 Six­Day war. 
Only after Israel agrees to this "basic principle" will Syria be prepared to discuss security arrangements for the strategic territory or a peace treaty, said Muwaffiq al-Allaf, the chief Syrian negotiator. 
The talks resumed with ex­pectations that the new gov­ernment in Israel might be more willing to make conces­sions to the Arabs than its tougher predecessor. One of Rabin's first moves was to slow down Jewish housing on the West Bank and in Gaza. 
But Rabin, chief of staff in the 196 7 war and a former defense minister, is probably as de­termined as his implacable predecessor, Yitzhak Shamir, to hold on to the Golan Heights as a security buffer. Before Israel's victory in 1967, villages in northern Israel were routinely shelled from the hills across the border. 
The demand for total Israeli withdrawal on all fronts was leveled by al-Ailaf as he entered the State Department building. 
"We are here for a compre­hensive and total peace," he said, "not for a partial peace. The only way to reach a com­prehensive peace is to return all the territories occupied in 1967." 
Itamar Habinovich, the chief Israeli negotiator in the talks with Syria, avoided a clash on the issue in his remarks to re­porters. 
"We are expecting to see more progress," he said. "As you know very well, Israel has a new government. .. We come here with a lot of good will, many high hopes." 
Simultaneously, Israeli and Lebanese negotiators began their meetings and chief Israeli negotiator Elyakim Hubinstein and llaidar Abdul Shafi, the leader of the Palestinian dele­gation, met separately. 


The Observer/ Pal McHugh
Interior design 

Pasquerilla East sophomores Mary Anne Colalillu and Michelle Hayden cut their carpet hoping it will fit inside their dorm room. 

is now accepting application for the following position: 
BUSINESS COPY EDITOR 
To apply, submit a resume & personal statement to David Kinney by Thursday, Aug. 27. For more info call239-5303 
Ifyou see news happening, please call The Observer at 
239-5303. 

Thank You. 




~,('* 
../t!&,,/f•
eVW,....~ 

Homes-Homes-Homes 
With good proximity to C3mpus: 
303 W. Anr:ela. 3 BRs' 1~ 1/2 Baths, 1400+ sq. 
feet, basement and garage. Just 
listed! $60's 

52985 Emmons Rd .. 3 BRs, 1 Bath, newer tri~ level, unfin. LL. Att. garage. Range & Refrig. $74,900 
1025 Hudson Ave., historic district, 4 BRs, 1~ 1/2 Baths. Appliances. $39,900 
1337 Vikinl Dr., 3 BR's 1 Bath, Ranch, Att. garage,; Incudes newer dishwasher and refrigerator. Broker~owned. $45,000 
Mary Jo Shively OFF:(219) 255-5858 FAX:(219) 258.7482
broker associate, CRS, GRI Rf~JIX.,oo ,..,Y
RES:(219) 277-2279
15 Years Experience 11. and,..w• piau 
820 w. edison suite 100 
mishawaka, Indiana 46S.as 
phon~t: (219) 255-5858 



CARROT TOP 
Appearing: Saturday, August 29th and Sunday, August 30th 
8PM 
Washington Hall 

Tickets: $3 at the La Fortune Info Desk (Satisfaction guaranteed or your money back!) 
As seen on: MTV, Evening at the Improv, Showtime Comedy Club Network Sponsored by Student Activities 

---
----~ 
~--------------~-------­
luesday,August2o, 1~~2 1ne uoserver 
Protection needed for U.S. airlift 
MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP)­Relief officials said Monday a planned U.S. airlift was des­perately needed by Somalis starving in remote areas of the drought-ravaged country. But they warned they might not be able to protect the food from bandits who operate freely during Somalia's civil war. 
"We are optimistic, but there's a lot of freelance gunmen out there," said David Bassiouni, 
U.N. humanitarian coordinator for Somalia. "We can only hope for the best." 
Bassiouni said a 500-man Pakistani army unit would help protect food shipments but the troops would not arrive before mid-September. 
He persuaded leaders of war­ring Somali clans to permit the Pakistanis guard Mogadishu, Somalia's capital and main port where an uneasy U.N.-mediated truce took effect in March. 
Officials said "Green Berets" of the U.S. Army's Special 

Attention Students! 
NBD Bank has 

you need! 
• 
No-Fee Checking and Savings Accounts •loans 

•Computer 
Banking with NBD Express •ATMs 

• 
Extended Banking Hours 


Visit NBD Bank located a few blocks from the Notre Dame campus. 

NBD Bank 18083 S.R. 23 North 273-1280 
Member FDIC 


Your Latest Bonus: "Clinique Advantages" 
Allergy Tested 100% Fragrance Free 

Hudson's @University Park Mall Aug. 13, 29 
Forces would protect three airstrips in southern Somalia but only while U.S. cargo planes are on the ground. The strips are in the hardest-hit parts of Somalia, where relief officials estimate hundreds of thousands are just weeks away from death. 
Once unloaded, the sacks' of grain will be the responsibility of the U.N. World Food Pro­gram, which must rely on a ragtag army of hired armed guards for security. 
"It's·a worrisome situation, all right," said Mark Stirling of Australia, representative of the 
U.N. Children's Fund, or UNICEF. But hungry families cannot wait, Sterling said. 
Somalia's death toll is esti­mated at about 2,000 people a day, mostly children, but relief workers say they cannot esti­mate accurately since so many stricken areas are beyond their reach. 
Officials said the increasing flow of food could attract ban­dits beyond control of warring clan leaders. As smaller ship­ments trickle into areas where no relief agencies operate, they are vulnerable to isolated loot­ing. 
Although the airlift can help only a small fraction of the 1.5 million to 2 million Somalis in immediate danger, it will bring new energy to relief efforts and help until larger shipments can be brought in by ship, officials said. 
Bassiouni said the country remains extremely tense, threatening to burst again into widespread clan warfare. 
About 140 foreign aid work­ers are in Somalia, not counting 50 unarmed U.N. peacekeepers sent to observe the cease-fire in Mogadishu between rival factions of a rebel army that ousted President Mohamed Siad Barre. 

The Obsef\/ef/ Par M:Hugn 

Go Irish! 

Students in the ND marching band practice their steps in preparation for the upcoming football games. 
Muslims muster support in Lebanese national elections 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) ­Muslim fundamentalists linked to former hostage-takers em­barrassed the secular govern­ment with a strong showing in Lebanon's first parliamentary elections in two decades, ac­cording to unofficial returns Monday. 
Four candidates from Hezbollah and several anothers associated with the Shiite Mus­lim group won seats, giving radical factions a boost going into voting rounds in Beirut and other strongholds of President Elias Hrawi's pro-Syrian government. 
The Parliament speaker was among the losers in the voting held Sunday -the first of three rounds that will likely end the Christain dominance of political power. 
Right-wing Christians have urged followers to boycott the vote to protest the presence of Syrian troops, which were called in under an Arab League mandate to end the 1975-90 dvil wHr in this half-Christian. 
6649-84 
half-Muslim nation. 

There were complaints of fraud from all sides during Sunday's voting, which was limited to the predominantly Shiite Bekaa Valley of east Le­banon and in north Lebanon, which is half-Christian, half­Sunni Muslim. 
The elections are scheduled to be conducted on three con­secutive Sundays, giving Le­banese security forces time to shift from region to region. 
Christians, who have called for a boycott when their region votes on Aug. 30, urged Hrawi's government to cancel the election and resign. 
The right-wingers and Hrawi belong to the Maronite Catholic Church. But while Hrawi has cast his lot with the Syrians, the right-wing Phalange Party has long opposed Syria, Lebanon's mostly Muslim and militarily powerful neighbor. 
In the absence of elections, which are supposed to take place every four years, Parlia­ment has simply passed legis­lation extending its life since the mid-1970s. This has con­tinued the constitutional supremacy accorded to Ma­ronites ever since Lebanon gained independence from France in 1943. 
The elections are being con­ducted under an Arab League plan which ended the civil war. The new 128-member Parlia­
ment is to be half-Christian and half-Muslim and take office Oct. 15. 
Hezbollah, long considered the umbrella group for the holders of Western hostages, fielded six candidates in the Bekaa. Four won, including Hezbollah standard-bearer Sheik Ibrahim al-Sayyed, a se­nior clergyman, according to unofficial results. The fate of the other two was not known. 
1\vo Sunnis, a Greek Catholic and a Maronite Catholic aligned with Hezbollah also won. These alliances are a result of the election system, which appor­tions seats in a combination of geographic districts and reli­gious quotas. 
The Iranian-backed Hezbol­lah, or Party of God, claimed Sayyed defeated Parliament Speaker Hussein Husseini by a margin of more than two-to­one: 32,342 votes for the black­turbaned clergyman, and 
14.510 for Husseini. 


Handy man! 
Flanner Hall sophomore Brian Price begins construction on his 
sign, ignored the five-hour
loft. Many students discover space saving tips for their rooms. 

Gunman fires on Canadian students 
MONTREAL (AP) -A profes­sor armed with a pistol opened fire at a university Monday, killing at least two people and wounding three before being captured, police and witnesses said. 
Some witnesses described the gunman as cool and controlled, apparently stalking predetermined victims and ig­noring others in the halls of Concordia University. 
"He was in a very, very scary mood," said student Rafic Chehouri. "He was very calm in his walking ... I thought he would shoot everyone in front of him, and I was in front of him." 
"He was holding the gun in front of him walking like a robot," said Chehouri, who took cover in an office. 
Unidentified witnesses quoted by Canadian Press said the as­sailant was Valery Fabrikant, a professor of mechanical engi­neering. Witnesses were also quoted as saying Fabrikant had quarrelled with the administra­tion over issues such as being passed over for promotion. 
Two Concordia staff members were killed, said university spokesman Ken Whittingham. But he declined to give their names or jobs. 
Police spokesman Constable Claude Forget said the gunman was arrested about an hour after he began shooting at the downtown campus. Neither po­lice nor the university immedi­ately released the gunman's name. 
The man took two hostages, but was overpowered by one of the captives and police moved in, said police spokesman Serge 
Sociology Class Openings 
Structure of the Social World 3841 SOC 205 Sec.01 MW 8:40-9:55 Social Psychology (must also register tor tutorial) 2621 SOC 220 Sec.01 MW 10:10-11:00 Social Psychology Tutorial 3842 SOC 220T Sec. 02 F 12:15-1 :05 Social Psychology Tutorial 4109 SOC 220T Sec.01 F 10:10-11:00 Foundation of Sociological Theory 3845 SOC 300 Sec.01 T/Th 1:15-2:30 Statistics for Professionals 2622 SOC 302 Sec.01 MWF 10:10-11:00 Religion in American Society 2139 SOC 372 Sec.01 MWF 9:00-9:55 Polish Americans 3848 SOC 375 Sec.01 T/Th 2:45-4:00 Nationalist Ritual & Symbol 3853 SOC 418 Sec.01 MW 12:50-2:05 
Congress reveals corruption in Brazilian government 
BRASILIA, Brazil (AP) ­Congress accused President Fernando Collor de Mello on Monday of running a govern­ment riddled with corruption, increasing calls for the im­peachment of Brazil's first di­rectly elected leader after decades of military rule. 
The final report of a two­month corruption probe re­vealed the inner workings of what it termed an "industry of influence trafficking" that it said Collor should have known about. 
The report was the culmina­tion of months of suspicion and scandal since Collor's brother Pedro charged the president with corruption in a magazine interview published in May. 
Brazilians see the scandal as a test of their new democracy. Traditionally, powerful Brazil­ians have broken the law with impunity, and ordinary citizens in Latin America's largest country wonder if this time things will be different. 
"Brazil will not be the same," said Amir Lando, the report's 
-author, as he read the entire 200-page document in a na­tionally televised broadcast. He called the case "a huge swamp." Collor, who denies any wrongdoing and refuses to re­
Meloche. 

Vojislav Latinovic, a professor of mechanical engineering, said he came out of his office and saw his colleague carrying a pistol. 
"He had a blank look on his face. I was afraid. I went back into my office and slammed the door," Latinovic said. 

One of the victims, a man, was in serious condition with head and abdomen wounds, said a hospital spokesman. The other two -a 50-year-old woman and a 48-year-old man -were in stable condition. 
reading of the report and presided over a ceremony at the presidential palace. His spokesman. Etevaldo Dias, called the report "a political work." 
The reading was interrupted briefly when students entered Congress with a sign reading "Impeachment Now." Security guards removed them. 
Share prices on the Sao Paulo stock market, Brazil's largest, were slightly up by noon. "It was like a sigh of relief," said Eduardo Levy, a former presi­dent of the exchange. "It rep­resents optimism that the crisis is ending and Collor will leave office, either through resigna­tion or impeachment." 
Recent polls show up to 70 percent of Brazilians want Col­lor out, and pro-impeachment rallies are held daily across the country. 
Collor began his five-year term in March 1990 promising clean government and a better economy. He now faces 20 per­cent monthly inflation and high unemployment. 
His election came after two decades of military dictatorship and a military-chosen interim government. There is no indi­cation the public wants the mili­tary back, despite the current scandal. 
The report said Collor re­
ceived at least $6.5 million from his 1989 campaign treasurer Paulo Cesar Farias, who is accused of graft, influence peddling and tax evasion. 
Legal experts say he could be charged with "passive con·up­tion" -soliciting or receiving undue benefits -and lack of decorum. Both are impeachable offenses. 
A request for impeachment must be approved by two-thirds of the 503-seat lower house of Congress. In that case, Collor would be automatically suspended for 180 days, and the Senate must decide whether to remove him permanently. 
The Brazilian Bar Association has said it will request im­peachment. 
The report is to be sent to the Attorney-General's office, which will decide whether to formally charge Collor. Corruption is also punishable by a fine and a prison term of up to eight years. 
The panel said its report to the prosecutor would include 1,000 pounds of checks and documents. 
Collor has tried to shore up support by throwing open the public coffers in an effort to buy votes in Congress. 

is now accepting application for the following position: 
CIRCULATION DRIVERS 
Get paid to tour ND /SMC campuses at lunch! 
To apply, please contact Rich Riley at 239-7471. 
Careers of the Nineties 
EXPLORE 1HE POSSIBIUTIES OF A 
CAREER Vl\iDi OFFERS YOU THE 
BE!iT I'«XllE AND ADVANCEMENT 
POTENTIAL liel the !acts on 110 
GROWTH OCXlJPATIONS. 

Whicfo -ID clwJoae has .,_ys 
-• -qunfion. But hare is 
help. Tlw ._. CAREER REPORT SERIES las...inlonra!Jon you need 1o moka.,.-.as., lor your carHr ...rth. Major dlanges t.w laken place in our.,.,.....11 the lui 10 y~ and ~ :til ir> :-.o =U>g._CHOCSE lo. CAREER t«:lW thai '-s 111<' bell apport..-b" INCOME POTENTIAL. 
GROWTH -ADVANCEMENT tor 11M 
N­

'"Ca..-s cl .. N-· -CNer 110 
~-wllich accotding to lha 
latest ,.._..,.,., and private 
rn•n:Ms ....., IIMt WfY best 
op~ ... subolanliol growth 
dumg ... ..-.g 10 r-t"· Only 
oc:cupaiiDnl ollich '--.. estmaled 
grow111 -•1ft.or more..,. c:lloMn 
-....,.....,_ which haw •tmated 
growlh in -of 25% -shown in bold. 
c..r..w.-.._...-.~DiaOft'M' 
~..,._,........ ..,....IIPPI'Oil.4·12 
........ ~..................WQU...-dlll 
-~-­



---v-­
~-~----on....... 
................. -.v~. 

QI<OERNOW-a.'ll.ao.---. 'r.JD
.......-. 

fN> WI MOUI eiTERESl1NG CAAEEAS ­DOI'nWOSIE R.Eao ACAREER IHAT DOESH"T 
fiT YOUR~_, TAUNT$! 

~&aod«on ........ 101 Acton. -....-,.,... ... 102 A<:1uan. ··--· ••••••••••••• 325 Admi--Mnrice ......... 321 Mrosl*» .._... .......... 103 
'"" lralic ....-" ........... 104 Aircraft rnec:IWIICS .........•.. 106 Alrcreft,.... ••.••••........ 105 
Arc-·--· ............. 107 Ara-&..-tcn . . . . . . . . 160 Blolotir::oll -.t~no ......... 32& CM..-~. 120 c:nen-.. ... . 121 
OCCUPATION """'"" ...,..... 
Chlldcarw worilera .....•..•.. 122 Chwopractors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 1 Cl1nicallaboratory tech. . . . . . . . 166 Computer o,-ralora ..••.•... 127 Computer programm.,. . . . . . . . . 126 Computer seMCe techniCians . . . . 12ll Computer syllem analysts ...... 125 ConstNCioon & budd1ng onspecton 131 Conatrucllan mgre .•••. , , •••. 322 Con-ecllon olllcere .•...•..••• 138 Cou• ................ 167
.,.efon 
Denial USIIIan!o . . . . . . •.... 153 
O.algnera •••••.....•••••.. 140 
o.tectivn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 233 
Dletlllana & nutrlllonloto . , ••••. 152 
Elec1rtcal I. electronic engllwere 141 
Em!>loyrnent lnt•rvle-......... 11111 
Engl.-ring, eclence a. elate proe. 
......g............... 327 Engl.-ring technlclana •••••• 145 Finanaal "'9" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 323 Right aftenclanta .•• , •• , • , ••• 1411 Geologists & geophyiiCISII ••... 251 Grephic & flnelllllsll .......... 201 Hedh ..rv~c. mg............. 203 Holel mgra & aaalalanla ••••••• 2041 Industrial ongm..,.. ........... 207 Inspectors & compliance officen . 253 Labor relatione apeclallat. , •••• 2$4 L.awyera •••••• , ............ 212 ~Agal ..alatanta •••••••••••• 213 Mgml analya1a &. c:onaullanta • , • 324 Mk1g &. public rwlatlona mg,. .•. 262 Malhemabaans .............. 217 Macha01cal 1tr1g1n..,.. . . . . . . . . . 2111 Medical aaalatanta •••••••••• , 2111 Malaorologlata •••••••• , , , , •• 256 HIHMa, llcen,..d •••••••.•••• 225 Nureaa, reglalarwd .• , •••••••. 224 Nurelng & paychlalric aldea •••. 22& Occupoollonal thereplat. ....... 263 o,-retlona rwaearch analyola .. 321 PharmaciSts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264 Phyalcal lhareplata .••••..•.. 265 
Phyalclana ..•.......••..••. 230 Phyaiclana aaalatanta ..•..... 231 Phyt:ctsts & &::::ncr.-.a:s . . . . . . . 266 Property & real est.ale "'9" . . . . . 268 Paychologlato .....•........ 235 Radio &. televlalon an..Ounca,. . 237 Radiologic lechnologlato ...... 2$8 Real eslate agents & brok"" . . 2311 R•cr••Uorwl 1he.-.pilb ....... 241 

-OCOJ9--.T-ION----.-"""-••-NUI.I-••-. 
Reporters & correspondents . . 2Je Realauranl food ..rvlce mg,. .. 269 Sc,.nce techn1011ns . 2511 S«relanft . . . 246 Social worke,. .............. 248 Stock broke,. &. aec:urtllea aalea 
work•,. ............. 24V Survlcal technlclana ..••••... 250 Taachers. kind. & elemenwy .... 302 Tuchers. seeondafY ......... 301 
T<>ol !""!',.m,.,.,. ........... 307 
Trevelagenta ..••••••••••... 306 Underwrtlers •••••••••••••.• 321 Urban & regional planneR ...... 316 Yetennan.na ••••••••••••••• 311 Wrtlera I. edltore •••••••••••. 312 
ORDER HON-()lly 'll.m--._._ 'r~
........-... 
FNl OUT AIIOUT MERESTWG CAAEERS ­DQN"T WASTE r..cE 1H ACAREER THAT 00£SN­fiT VOUR SKlLLS NlD TALENTS! 
' ' I 
I
-
. 
' 
' 

~~~~---------+~~~ 
,._.,.a~~ ..01 10,..,.,.....on 
....,. ...,.. azsao
: __ ;' 
' ' 
' '
l,.., uc-u.......,---!
l,.._.........--..1 
'

:--------­
!-·-------_
: ..._____ ,___ 
CJ!f'OEIII NOW .IMUEOIA'n OEUVIJin'

l::.""-­
•••.,..Coulf~lllf'MNJ 
' 
JIIO ••• 441172 

L-----~~.::~~~-~~-·~!~ ________ J 
luesaay,Augusr~o. 1~~~ 1ne uoserver !Jayt: 1" 

Man charged with Sudafed poisoning 
SEATTLE (AP) -An insur­ance agent, hoping to collect $700,000 in life insurance on his wife, made her severely ill and killed two strangers by poi­soning cold medicine with cyanide, prosecutors said Mon­day. 
The tamperings in early 1991 led to a nationwide recall of Sudafed 12-hour cold capsules. 
Joseph Earl Meling. 31, of Olympia, was indicted Friday by a federal grand jury on six counts of product tampering, two counts of giving false statements in lawsuits and 12 counts of mail fraud. The tam­pering charges cover the two deaths, his wife's injury and three contaminated capsules found later in Tacoma-area stores. 
The indictment was sealed until Meling could be arrested Sunday at his home. He was to make an initial appearance be­fore a federal magistrate Mon­day. Meling, held in a Seattle area jail. will plead "flat out not guilty" to all charges, said his attorney, Cyrus Vance. U.S. At­torney Mike McKay revealed at a news conference Monday that the government tapped Meling's telephone and placed a secret listening device in his home. The surveillance showed Meling had gone to a store that sold cyanide before the poisonings and had tried to influence his wife and other family members not to talk to prosecutors, McKay said. 
The indictment alleges Meling poisoned the capsules to kill his wife, Jennifer Meling, 29, so he could collect the life insurance from his then-employer, Prudential Insurance Co. On Jan. 23, 1991, 10 days before she was poisoned, Meling added a double-indemnity rider on her insurance in case of accidental death, McKay said. 
Three months earlier, Meling had asked a fellow Prudential agent if the rider would pay off in the case of a poisoning by an over-the-counter drug, McKay said. 
In court papers, McKay por­trayed Meling as selfish and manipulative. and abusive to­ward his wife. On Dec. 22, 1990, Meling told police in a 911 call that her husband tried to push her face into a kitchen cupboard. She declined to press charges, McKay said. 
Although the couple was sad­dled with heavy debts -Meling at times worked three jobs to help pay bills -Meling in­dulged in expensive hobbies such as photography and com­puters, and frequented striptease bars where he paid dancers hundreds of dollars to perform, McKay said. 
The indictment alleges that in late January 1991, Meling complained to his wife that her snoring was keeping him awake and that she ought to take a decongestant. It says he planted a cyanide-tainted capsule among his wife's Sudafed, which she took on Feb. 2, 1991, in the couple's apartment. She fell into a coma, but recovered. 
Kathleen Daneker, 40, of Ta­coma died on Feb. 11, 1991, and Stanley McWhorter, 44, of nearby Lacey died Feb. 18, 1991. Authorities determined Daneker and McWhorter died after ingesting cyanide-laced Sudafed 12-hour capsulels bought at stores near their homes. 


BEACH PARTY 
SATURDAY, AUG. 29 
®ST. JOSEPH LAKE BEACH 
(RAIN DATE AUGUST 30) 
N 


TOURNEY 

TEAMS SIGN UP IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS 3 & 6 PERSON TEAMS 


CANOEING PADDLE BOATS KAYAKING CLINIC SAILING ROWING DEMONSTRATION SWIMMING 
SPONSORED BY RECSPORTS 

Saint Mary's students, Lisa Dominello, Katie Kyle, Kim Rivers, and Jeanne McCormick listen as Dr. Hickey, president of Saint Mary's, shares some of his college memories. 
Stu-dy: Family change will slow 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A half­century of change in family structure is likely to slow in the 1990s, but there is no likelihood America will return to the "Ozzie and Harriet" model of yesteryear, a private study con­cluded Monday. 
"Valuing the family should not be confused with valuing a particular family form." said the report by the Population Reference Bureau, which ana­lyzed census and other gov­ernment data. 
"Social legislation, or 'pro­family' policies, narrowly de­signed to reinforce only one model of the American family is likely to be shortsighted and have the unintended conse­quence of weakening. rather than strengthening, family ties," the report said. 
The ..Ozzie and Harriet" model of 1950s television fame -a bread-winning husband and a wife who stayed home with the children -once was the dominant pattern in Amer­ica. Now, one in five married couples with children fits that stereotype, the report said. 
About 36 percent of all American families are married couples with children, but a growing number of those are "blended" stepfamilies. One in three Americans is a member of a stepfamily and that is ex­pected to rise to nearly one in two by the turn of the century, the report said. 
"Family values" has been a recurring theme in this year's presidential campaign, but Carol De Vita, a senior research demographer at the Population Reference Bureau and an au­thor of the report, said the study did not look at particular legislation or proposals. 
In policy-making generally, she said, "the discussion fo­cuses on the 'traditional fam­ily."' But in doing that "you're leaving out a lot of other people. ... What we need to do is broaden our view of what the family is." 
Much has changed since the start of the Baby Boom after World War II: 
•The 
average age at first marriage is highest in a century -26.3 years for men and 24.1 for women. 

•The 
marriage rate fell nearly 30 percent between 1970 and 1990, while the divorce rate increased nearly 40 percent. 

•More 
than half of all mothers with preschool children worked outside the home in 1991, compared with one in five in 1960. 


1
11

~ ~ ~0UR PHOTO C PORTRAITS 
916 Erskone Plaza • South Bend. Indiana 46614 (219) 299-0600 
.9lvaifa6{e for 
Personal Portraits•Passports• Identification Graduation Pictures Always at a reasonable price 
Just 5 minutes from campus 
•One in four babies is born to an unmarried mother, com­pared with one in five in 1960. 
In 1991, the most common family unit was the married couple with no children living at home. They constituted 42 percent of the families. but they included couples in various sit­uations -younger couples planning to have children, older couples whose children had left home, couples childless by choice, and others. 
Nearly one in eight families was headed by a single parent last year, and that parent was five times more likely to be a woman. 
About a quarter of all chil­dren, more than 16 million of them, lived with only one par­ent in 1991. That's double the percentage of 1970 and nearly three times that of 1960. 
"Whatever is going on, it is evidently not peculiar to the United States," De Vita said. 
For example, in 1989 in the United States, 27.1 percent of all births were to unmarried women, up from 18.4 percent in 1980, from 10.7 percent in 1970 and 5.3 percent in 1960. Canada experienced a similar increase, from 4.3 percent in 1960 to 23 percent in 1989. In France, the increase during the period was 6.1 percent to 28.2 percent, and the United King­dom, 5.2 percent to 26.6 per­cent. 
The analysis projects a slower rate of change in the 1990s, mostly because of the aging of the Baby Boom generation. Members of this group -those born 1946-1964 -are in their prime childbearing and child­rearing years. Through the end of the century, there likely will be little change in the overall share of families with children, the report said. 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan State 
Friday and Saturday September 18 and 19 
Prt'ce ' $124 50 
PER PERSON (Includes contribution to MSUJ 
I  ,  •  •  DOUBLE OCCUPANCY REQUIRED  
You Get:  1. Two llcketato MSU-ND Football Gama  
2. Deluxe Suite, Uvlng room, Bedroom  
Microwave, Refrigerator, and 2 TV's  
3. Compllmenlry Cocktalla (~lUST  BE  21)  
4. BreaklUI tor each nll<t morning, cooked to order  
5. Access to: Jacuzzi, sauna and exercise room  

FOR RESERVATIONS: 
CALL BILL AT 233-4051 




.-----------~------------~---·------­
Viewpoint 
page 14 Tuesday,August25, 1992 
The Observer 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Professor sees steps missing in 'fingerprinting' debate 
Dear Editor: 
Notre Dame professors ("Kmiec discusses legal aspects of abortion," (The Observer, April 30, 1992) and "Abortion, how law ignores science," (Chicago Tribune, July 14, 1992) have claimed that new biological evidence, the Jef­frey's technique of DNA finger­printing, undermines Roe by making it a matter of "plain ob­servation" that "there is a spe­cific and unique being present from the moment of concep­tion." 
Major steps in their argument are missing, and may be non­existent or incoherent. 
DNA "fingerprinting" is used to diagnose heritable diseases, or to include a suspect in the class of those possibly present 
The Observer 
is now accepting application for the following position: 
VIEWPOINT COPY EDITOR 
Apply atThe Observer office, leave application in the Letters to the Editor Box. 
DOONESBURY 
PRETTY tASY ON7HttYt, HUH2 ANVI'U­
TttLYaJ, 5H&3 QU!T/3 A LJV£3 WfR£31 
I 

at a crime scene. 
Such "fingerprints" have convinced American juries that of the 250 or 2500 US citizens whose DNA fingerprints are indistinguishable from the evi­dence, only the accused could have committed the crime. 
In such circumstances, an otherwise meaningless se­quence of eight digits would make a fine fingerprint. 
But which major ethical tradi­tion agrees that a genetic "bar code" defines human individu­ality? 
Are we being asked to think genetic determinism compatible 
with  the  Catholic  moral  
tradition?  
Edward Manier  

Philosophy Professor Aug. 18, 1992 

5H8 WORJ<.5l!KE A VEMON AT TH/? UTTL!3 J?ta)RATlNG 8U51NtSS I 5/iT UP FOR tieR, ANV YtT 51-ft 5TIU Pf1N{;!t7 IN PU3NTY OF T!Mt FOR Mt/ I CAN'T lEU-YOU 
HOW 5UPPOKTiV8 7H/S UTT/..& 
6AtiS! '­

PARTICIPATE IN THE MASS MIND-SET. 
Drop a line to: 
Viewpoint 
P.O. Box Q 
ND, IN, 46556 

Segregation can only hurt us 
Dear Editor: 
As we begin the school year, I am calling for everyone to make an effort to increase racial harmony on campus. 
In the past at Notre Dame, there have been racial tensions which have promoted stereo­types, fears, myths, lies, igno­rance and hatred 
We need to ease the racial tensions by communication and interaction 

this is done, we will find out we one people in order to survive; have more in common than one if we do not, we will then de­might expect. stroy each other. 
Some people believe segre­gation is the only way as an As you walk around campus American people can have ra­and see the variety of skin cial harmony. complexions, please look at one 
another as unique children of 
Segregation only promotes God instead of stereotypical off­fears and myths among the spring of some color. races and such an ideal can Robert E. Payne destroy a nation. Alumni Hall 
-------,"'~'!::1· 22, 1992 
M!NO!NG M/3 OF NH&I</5-I CAME 
70 5tNV THtM
FROM. I JtET 
NASN'T GETTING 
sa-tOOL.
MU(;H RtTURN ON MY 25-YtAR IN­
KATHY NA5 ALWAYS 
NOT 50 /AIUL,
lC.A~NG M8lXJWN, 7?15· 
fRANI<L-Y. I HAD 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor .......... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ..Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions 
Accent 
Tuesday,August25, 1992 
page 15 

Breaking tradition 
Mary Beth Wilkinson is the first woman to try out for Irish Guard 
By JAHNELLE HARRIGAN 
Accent Editor 

S 
he knew it would be a challenge. But Saint Mary's 
junior MaryBeth 
Wilkinson says she likes challenges. So trying out for the Irish Guard is not as strange as it may seem. 
"I want to go to law school, and 
I figured if I could survive this, I 
could survive anything," 
Wilkinson said. 

Still, the physical and emo­
tional elements of tryouts and the 
traditional male camaraderie of 
the group have exceeded her 
expectations. 

"I bit off more than I could 
chew, I think," she conceded. 
Wilkinson is the first woman to 
try out for the Irish Guard, ac­
cording to Marching Band direc­
tor Luther Snavely. 

Measuring at 6'4", she meets the 6'2" height requirement for Guard members. And according to Captain Pat Bednarz, there is no rule prohibiting women from joining the group. 
But historically, the Guard has 
been a tight-knit group of males, 
characterized by secret initia­
tions and traditions. 

Five days into tryouts, 
Wilkinson still questions whether 
a woman could -or would-'-.:.. "be 
welcomed into the group. 
''I'm not sure how I'd fit in. (The Irish Guard) goes beyond just marching," she;.&!lid. "It's like a huge clique. They go places together, they do things together. It's kind of like a fra­ternity-it's pretty secret." 
Bednarz agrees, and says that 
while it is possible for Wilkinson 
to join the Irish Guard, some 
traditions would have to change if she is chosen. "Right now, we all dress in the same room. That would have to change. It'd be pretty interesting," he said. 
Tryouts have been rigorous, but Wilkinson said she's keeping up with the group. 
"There's marching, push-ups, standing at attention in the hot sun, doing routines over and over... They randomly pick on you and try to make you crack," she said. 
Bednarz said the pressure is necessary to ensure the toughest members are chosen. 
"There's a lot of tension out there-everyone's worried they'll mess up. We've lost 20 people in tryouts because they obviously did not take it seriously enough," Bednarz said. "But (Wilkinson) is rock solid, has great effort and has totally impressed me." 
He maintains that Wilkinson has not been treated more harshly than others trying out for the Guard. 
Marching Band members, friends and professors have been very encouraging, says Wilkinson. 
By making it to the final try­out,s. ~he hopes that she will make a (lifference in people's at­titudes toward women at Saint Mary's. "I thought that it might make an impression. There were a lot of freshman guys trying out, and maybe I changed their image of Saint Mary's." 
Final Irish Guard auditions will be held Wednesday night, with five positions to be filled, Bednarz said. 
The future looks bright for Helmet 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Music Critic 
I have seen the future, and the future is Helmet. 
Meantime, Helmet's second album, aims to prove that theory to the rest of the world. 
The band's first release, Strap It On, was a tight ball of steel, throbbing guitars, concrete and screams. Meantime reincarnates this sound in a major-label package. 
Strap It On, released on Minneapolis' Amphetamine Reptile records, was packaged like a real indie release, fresh with spot color and block letters. 
And while Helmet has refused to compromise its musical ideals with Meantime, the new album's longbox is as slick as any Nike advertisement. 
Meantime kicks off with "In the Meantime," a track which does nothing to diminish Helmet's reputation, still echoing in the heads of fans. The basslinc rips through vital organs, while lead singer Page Hamilton's vocals fight through the driving guitars. 
Hamilton could be a future rock icon, with his clean cut looks and manic screaming and stage antics. Indeed, Helmet is packaged as metal for the fu-
Meantime 
Helmet * * * * 
(out of five) 

ture-a closely cropped, cleanly shaven form which deserves to be played at eleven. 
The album's second single, "Unsung," first released last winter by Amphetamine Reptile as a seven-inch, showcases Helmet's strengths. 
While bassist Henry Bogdan and drummer John Stanier drive spikes of rhythm, guitarists Hamilton and Peter Mengede are able to accelerate to full volume, only to stop on a dime immediately, and begin their aural assault again. 
Hamilton's lyrics are tough to decipher, but, like most Helmet songs, the themes deal with the pace and turbulence of the world in which we live. This world is one in which even glamorous death cannot bring fame. 
"Walk through no ·archetypal suicide to/die young is far too boring these days," Hamilton sings, in a voice deeper than his typical scream. 
Though Hamilton's lyrics are often cryptic, Helmet's" sound has a definite 


Helmet's new release, Meantime, showcases the strengths of band members (1-r) John Stanier, Henry Bogdan, Page Hamilton, and Peter Mengede. 
mood. The guitars scream about a world of injustice, the rhythm section feels the pain of urban life, and Hamilton yells about his place in it all. 
Helmet is a band whose time has come. As is becoming painfully obvious, bands like Helmet, Nirvana and Soundgarden, to name a few, cannot achieve wide popularity without moving to a major label. 
Though Strap It On sold fewer than 10,000 copies, major-label talent scouts saw Helmet as a gold mine. 
After a long capitalist battle, the New York foursome signed with Atlantic's Interscope Records for an enormous $1.3 million, dwarfing the contracts that most deserters of independent labels sign. 
Though these bands seldom forget their roots immediately, the machine has a tendency to dilute their raw energy. 
But if Helmet is able to keep that energy at full strength, then the world is in for a future full of Hamilton and Helmet. 
-
-
Stanford, A&M prepare for game 
Walsh's debut a media event in Disneyland 
ANAHEIM. Calif. (AP) -is a little edgy. R.C. Slocum of the Aggies, Sitting in front of Cinderella's "We're faced with playing our entering his fourth year as a castle flanked by Mickey, first game with a completely college head coach, said going Minnie and the Three Little new coaching staff," Walsh against someone of Walsh's Pigs, Bill Walsh was back in the said. "That is a challenge in stature is an honor. college spirit again Monday. itself. Just the mechanics of "He's done as much as anyone 
No way would some pro managing a game has us who's ever coached a team." coach, except maybe Jerry concerned. We don't quite know Slocum said. "I probably even Glanville, willingly come to how all of us will react as a unit appreciate him more after all Disneyland and clown with and a coaching team." the tapes I watched this Mickey in front of a pack of While it will be the first test of summer, especially the reporters and television how Walsh's coaches work execution of his teams. It may cameras. But Walsh handled together, Stanford returns 16 not be as fun to watch it up the pre!ude to his return to starters from last season's close." college coaching with poise. squad that went 8-4 under In trying to get a handle on 
"This is the happiest and most Dennis Green. what the Cardinal might do excited I've been in my career," The Cardinal, which brings a Wednesday night, Slocum said Walsh, who returned to seven-game regular-season studied reels of tape, from Stanford after 10 years in the winning streak into the game, Walsh's days at Stanford from pros and a stint as an analyst will be facing one of the nation's 1977-78 to his decade with the for NBC. "The National Football toughest defenses after having 49ers. And even though Walsh League is really a tough arena practiced only two weeks. is like a newcomer to the to spend a lot of time in because The Aggies, the 1991 college ranks, Slocum doesn't the pressures are immense. Southwest Conference expect any major philosophy 
"I can't say I was excited (as a champions who went 10-2, shifts. pro coach). I was just trying to have had three weeks to "Any coach, particularly one survive in the NFL." prepare for their earliest game who's been as successful as Bill 
As for Wednesday's Pigskin ever and also return 16 Walsh over his career, has Classic between his 17th­starters. But the big question is things he believes in," Slocum ranked Cardinal and No. 7 at quarterback, a job won by said. "You prepare for those Texas A&M, the man who Jeff Granger despite having and go into the ballgame and coached the San Francisco missed spring football while try to adjust to what is done in Observer file photo 49ers to three Super Bowl titles playing baseball. the game. All eyes will be on Anaheim tomorrow night, when Bill Walsh leads his 

Stanford Cardinal into battle with R.C. Slocum's Texas A&M Aggies. 
Krieg, Chiefs trounce Bills 35-0 in preseason clash 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) -working mostly against Buffalo quarter drive that Harvey yard pass to Todd McNair put year running back scored. 
Dave Krieg enjoyed a rousing reserves, and made it a second Williams capped with a 7 -yard the Chiefs on the Buffalo 19. The Chiefs had a first and goal 
debut in his new town Monday straight miserable Monday run as the Chiefs hiked their Five plays later, Krieg hit from the Buffalo 9 with 2:41 left 
night, passing for 160 yards night for the Bills in Kansas exhibition record to 1-2 and Birden with a 6-yard scoring in the half but penalties pushed 
and two touchdowns in two City. dropped the Bills to 1-2. pass to cap a nine-play, 70-yard them back to a first down on 
quarters as Kansas City Last October when the Chiefs Buffalo's Jim Kelly split first­drive. the 50. Krieg, from the shotgun, 
trounced Buffalo 35-0, handing hosted their first Monday night half playing time with Gale Williams, who had 72 yards hit Tim Barnett for 41 yards to 
the AFC champions their first game in eight years, the Bills Gilbert and hit five of eight on 16 carries, swept over right the 9. After a holding penalty 
exhibition shutout in 22 years. suffered a 33-6 humiliation. passes for 52 yards. The Bills' end on a 7 -yard scoring sprint on rookie center Jay 
Krieg, the 12-year Seattle The Bills, who haven't been Steve Christie, acquired as a to make it 14-0 with 5:22 left. Leeuwenburg, Krieg connected 
veteran signed as a free agent, shut out in the regular season free agent from Tampa Bay, Krieg hit Kimble Anders, with Birden from 24 yards. 
showed Chiefs fans the since 1985, had last failed to missed field goals of 4 7 and 48 fighting for a spot as a running Rookie quarterback Matt 
downfield passing attack and score in an exhibition game in in the first half. back, with a 13-yard Blundin hit Alfred Pupunu with 
scrambling ability that had 1970, in a 34-0 loss to Green Krieg, who didn't play the completion to keep the drive a 14-yard touchdown pass in 
been lacking the previous three Bay. second half, got the Chiefs going. On fourth and one from the third quarter. In the fourth, 
seasons under Steve DeBerg. Krieg hit touchdown passes of rolling with a 44-yard the Buffalo 29, Williams went Fred Jones got wide open in the 
The Chiefs scored on four of 6 and 24 yards to J.J. Birden completion to Birden on his over right end for 6 yards to the end zone for a 24-yard scoring 
their first five possessions, and led an 89-yard, second-third play from scrimmage. A 5-23. Four plays later the second-pass from Mark Vlasic. 
The Observer accepts classjfieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
ROOMMATE..I'm looking for a  Nice 2-bedroom apartment by  OAKHILL CONDO -2 BAS, 2  WANTED: 2 TIX NO-MICH. WILL  FENCING CLUB: Meets 6:30-8:00,  
-­ NOTICES  roommate to share a two bedroom apartment two miles from campus.  Tippecanoe Place. $350. w/heat. 609 W. Washington, 232-7861.  Baths, 1 ,170 sq. ft., fireplace, spiral staircase to loft/den. 1 car garage.  PAY. CALL 904-630-6346. I'LL CALL BACK ON MY WATS.  Fencing Gym, JACC. Beginners welcome. First meeting September  
cost 200$/month. "l"am a swedish  Walk to ND. $77,500. Call Coldwell  CHUCK WHITE.  1st. Equipment provided. $80 per  
grad student.phone: 2395608,ask  2 Bed 'n Breakfast rooms. 1 mi.  Banker, 277-8000 or Ruth Ann  semester.  
For more information and  for Ragnar or 2725740.  from campus -$75 a night, no  Smith 288-8875.  $$  I Need MICH TIX!I $$  
assistance regarding the  smoking or drinking. Excellent  please please please please  Please see our display ad for  
investigation of financing, business  PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA NOW HIRING  neighborhood. 272-0128.  LAMPS, CHAIRS, SOFAS, $5-35.  Call Dennis @ 283-1577  SENOR SALSA'S GOURMET  
opportunities and work-at-home  Full-time and Part-time Drivers and  2 night stays preferred ..  234-8969 OR PLEASE LV. MSG.  MEXICAN CUISINE 1-800-837­ 
opportunities, THE OBSERVER  Inside Help. Flexible Schedules.  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  3624  
urges its readers to contact the  Call 271-1177 today for more  NICE B & B ACCOMMODATIONS  HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE  
Better Business Bureau of Michiana. 52303 Emmons Rd.,  information or apply in person at 54533 Terrace Lane (next to  AVAILABLE FOR PURDUE, STANFORD, BYU & BOSTON  TICKETS  AT 618-439-3338.  Please see our display ad for SENOR SALSA'S GOURMET  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ Suoway) off SR 23 across from the  COLLEGE. NEAR ND.  NORTHWESTERN TIX FOR SALE  MEXICAN CUISINE 1-800-837­ 
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­ new super Video Watch. Drivers  CALL 271-0989.  CALL JOE X1760  3624  
9121 or 800-439-5313.  need car, license and insurance.  PLEASE HELP:  
BED "N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  My dad would like to see one  I NEED ND FOOTBALL  Steve is a God  
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!!  Please see our display ad for  219-291-7153  Michigan game before I graduate  TICKETS.272-6306  Audrey Gomez  
BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday  SENOR SALSA'S GOURMET  and need tickets.  
Pandora's Books 808 Howard  MEXICAN CUISINE 1-800-837­ Share 2-BR Home with Male Grad  Call Mike 283-1161  TICKET$$ TICKET$$ TICKETS$$  Bill, this is our year!?! Where are  
3 blks. from campus 233-2342  3624  Student. $260 plus phone. Jeff  $$$1  DEPERATELY  N E E D  you? I'm waiting for you. Love, Jen  
288-3878 Leave a message.  6  G. A. 's FOR  MICHIGAN$$$  
Please see our display ad for  MOTHER'S HELPER TO CARE  $$ -NEW YORKERS  please, please, please, please  TEC  TEC  
SENOR SALSA'S GOURMET  FOR OUR 3-YEAR-OLD. MUST BE  UNIQUE B & B COUNTRY  DESPERATELY SEEKING 2 HOME  CALL X2454  TEENS ENCOUNTER CHRIST IN  
MEXICAN CUISINE 1-800-837­ FRIENDLY, WITH EXPERIENCE  SETIING. MINUTES FROM ND  FOOTBALL TICKETS. ANY GAME  SOUTH BEND AREA ARE VERY  
- 3624  AND OWN CAR. PART TIME  NEAR GRANGER. BEDROOMS  EXCEPT OCT. 24. PLEASE CALL  HELP A SENIOR! Need 4-5 GEN  HAPPY TO WELCOME NOTRE  
DAYS, SOME EVENINGS. 232­ W/SHARED BATH. CALL 616-663­ (516) 463-6930 IMMEDIATELY, 9  or STD tkt for U MICH. Last Hope  DAME/ST. MARY'S STUDENTS  
I LOST/FOUND  '  2201. FOR RENT  8308. II FOR SALE  AM-5PM, AND ASK FOR LYNDA. PRICE NEGOTIABLE!  for familyl Tim @289-5196 Will pay big bucks for ND-MICH G.A. tix. Call Joe@ 287-4561.  WHO WISH TO JOIN US HERE. CALL 277-2535. $$$MICHIGAN$$$ I WILL PAY LARGE SUMS  
Lost: Blue ND ID Holder  '===============~  I NEED 3 MICHIGAN GA'S  OF$$$ FOR G.A.'s &  
Fri NighU Linebacker  School Year '92-'93. Two bedrooms,  IS IT TRUE. ..JEEPS FOR $44  Please Help  Please Help  DESPERATELY  STUDENT MICHIGAN TIX  
- Please call Julie 288-5196  large outdoors. Home close to campus. Clean, quiet neighborhood.  THROUGH THE U.S. GOV'T. CALL FOR FACTS I  My father would greatly appreciate any GAs to any games. And yes,  WILL PAY CALL MIKE AT X 2209  PLEASE, PLEASE HELP ME $ $ $ CALL x 2 4 5 4 $ $ $  
DON'T WORRY... I found your gold  Use of kitchen and laundry facilities.  504-649-5745 EXT. S-6840.  he knows that the tickets are going  
necklace near the library on 8/20.  A HOME away from HOME.  at high prices.  Mike at x1161  WANT TO MAKE A BUCK?  HeyNiff  
Please call to id 288-7976  WANTED: Mature goal-oriented,  1987 V-4 Taurus, loaded, great  I REALLY NEED MICH. TICKETS!  
graduate & transfer students need  shape. t-owner. Call 291-8999.  WILL PUT DEPOSIT ON TICKET  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
apply. Preferably political science,  BOOK. CALL JON DEBARTOLO  LaFortune Student Center  
- WANTED  music, and art majors and athletes. Only women who love children and  COUCH, RECLINER, KING-SIZE WATERBED. 272-9776 OR 287­ AT x3587.  Now open even LATER!!! Mon-Thur 7:30am-Midnight  
LOCAL GOLF PRO SHOP NEEDS  are willing to spend their spare time teaching while living in the home. $200/month.  4438. •3 MEN'S 10-SPEED BIKES. GOOD  I WILL BUY YOUR TICKET APPLICATION$$  PERSONAL  Fri 7:30am-7:00pm Sat Noon-6:00pm Sun Noon-Midnight  
PART-TIME HELP. CLOSE TO  Ex-California teacher and coach, 35  CONDITION.  283-1161  Michael  Please see our display ad for  
CAMPUS. CALL CHAD AT 282­ years experience. I travel  287-5235 & LEAVE MESSAGE IF  SENOR SALSA'S GOURMET  
3727 FOR MORE INFO.  periodically. 232-2794, ask for Paul.  NECESSARY. WILL RETURN  MEXICAN CUISINE 1-800-837­ 
YOUR CALL.  3624  sporty  


Tuesday,August22, 1992 
The Observer page 17 

Football 
continued from page 28 
time last year. 
"We haven't found a solid 
second fullback yet," Holtz 
commented. "Both Lytle and 
Zellars are willing and talented, 
but they still have to learn the 
intricacies of the position." 
Mirer has been hampered by some bumps and bruises throughout the fall, but has nonetheless been solid. 
"His arm is strong, he is confident, he has a better understanding of the game and he has increased his knowledge of defenses," Holtz said of the senior quarterback. 
Overall the offense should score a lot of points, but do not expect to see the Irish in the run-and-shoot. Holtz mentioned that his team will again use the two tight end set a lot, and said Notre Dame "is not a big play team, even though we have a big play quarterback." 
On the other side of the ball Notre Dame has definite strengths and definite weaknesses. 
The once-maligned Irish secondary has matured into the cornerstone of the defense. Jeff Burris and John Covington return as the safeties, while fellow juniors Tom Carter and Greg Lane will handle the duties at cornerback. 
Two freshmen, Brain Magee and Bobby Taylor, have caught Holtz's eye and could see some playing time in their first season. 
Entering the fall the front seven was suspect by some, but the loss of Eric Jones, who quit 


New Jersey wins Little League night game 
WILLIAMSPORT, Pa. (AP) -triple in the first inning drove in Holland manager David Hamilton Square, N.J. beat the only run his team would Beezhold said. "When they put Lake Charles, La. 5-0 Monday need. Matt O'Neill added a up the six runs, we thought we night in the first night game in three-run homer in the fifth. were capable of coming back." the history of the Little League Sean Burroughs struck out 12 But Burroughs sealed the World Series. in Long Beach's 10-6 victory victory with five strikeouts in 
In other games on Monday, over South Holland, Ill. Long the last two innings after his Long Beach, Calif., the Beach took a 7-1 lead in the top team added three runs. Dominican Republic and the of the fourth, but South Holland This year's tournament is the Philippines also won. rallied for five in the bottom of longest since Little League 
Pitcher Matt Wolski the inning to stay close. began in 1939. In the new handcuffed Lake Charles, which "I didn't think that until the format, each team will play managed to hit the ball out of final swing that they thought three games in round-robin the infield just twice, and his they were out of it," South play. 
the team in order to concentrate on academics, and potential loss of Demetrius DuBose has made it even shakier for the Irish. 
At outside linebacker, both Devon McDonald, 1991 honorable mention Sporting News All-American, and Karmeeleyah McGill have impressed Holtz with their performances throughout the fall. 
"McDonald is playing better than I've ever seen him play, and McGill is vastly improved," Holtz said. 
McGill's improvement began at the end of last season, as he started the final regular season game versus Hawaii and against Florida in the Sugar Bowl, where he had six tackles, two sacks, another tackle for lost yardage and a pass deflection. · 
At inside linebacker DuBose, a 1991 Butkus Award semifinalist, is slated to start along with Anthony Peterson. If DuBose is declared ineligible by the NCAA, Pete Bereich, a junior who started seven games last season, will replace him in the lineup. 
Up front Junior Bryant, Bryant Young and either Jim Flanigan or Oliver Gibson will start for the unit which could determine how successful Notre Dame is this season. 
"My main concern is the defensive line, that is where the defense has got to start," Holtz said. "How strong we are there is going to determine how strong the defense is going to be. 
We cannot be a great football team until we have a great defense." 
SENIORS! SENIOR PORTRAIT SIGN-UPS 
ONE TIME ONLY 
NOW 
North and South Dining Halls
LaFortune Information Desk 
During Lunch & Dinner Hours
10:00 AM-8:00PM 
Tuesday, August 25 -Friday, August 28
Tuesday, August 25-Friday, September 4 
DON'T MISS YOUR ONLY SHOT! 
-
-. 


page 18 The Observer Tuesday,August25, 1992 
NFL rosters clipped to 60; Starns dealt to Cleveland 
(AP)-Two weeks before the season opener, Denver coach Dan Reeves remains concerned about the left side of the team's offensive line. 
He did something about it Monday, cutting veteran tackle Harvey Salem as the Broncos reduced their roster to 60 players. 
It was a bad day for a lot of players -rookies, veterans and free agents alike -as the first mandatory cuts were made. All teams have to be down to 60 by noon Tuesday and to season limit of 4 7 by next Monday. 
Among those cut were Niko Noga, one of the eight players suing the NFL for free agency in a Minneapolis court. Noga was cut by the Los Angeles Raiders, who also released fullback Vance Mueller. 
The Cardinals cut Craig Patterson, a part-time starter last season. 
Two former members of the San Francisco 49ers' Super Bowl offensive line were cut, tackle Bubba Paris by the Detroit Lions and guard Bruce Collie by the New York Jets. 
The 31-year-old Salem, acquired by Denver from Detroit last year after being a regular with both the Lions and Houston Oilers, played 10 regular-season games and both postseason games with the Broncos last season. 
The release of Salem reflects concerns Reeves has about his line. 
-"There's a lot of questions there, in an area offensively that you've got to execute," Reeves said of a unit which has allowed 18 sacks in four exhibitions. Guard Sean Farrell has recurring shoulder problems and Reeves said rookie Chuck Johnson, Farrell's competition, "didn't play very well" in a 17-3 loss to Dallas. At tackle, neither Jeff Davidson nor Salem has solidified the position that caused so much concern last season. In four exhibitions, the Broncos have rushed 91 times for 274 yards, a 3.0 average. But Reeves said many mistakes were a result of the exhibition schedule. In a 19-day span, the Broncos played four games, three on the road, including one in Berlin. "We've had no time to prepare," he said. "I don't want to get so down on our players because of missed assignments and missed execution when they haven't had, in my opinion, a chance to execute." Bears Defensive end Richard Dent says William "The Refrigerator" Perry is a relatively svelte 328 pounds. Other Bears say they don't care what Perry weighs just so long as he's in camp to shore up the middle of the--defensive line, which gave up big yardage in a 28-17 loss to Pittsburgh Sunday night. "Not that he's going to solve all our problems, but having him will help a lot," Dent said. "It takes two guys to block him on a run, just like it sometimes takes two guys to block me on a pass." Perry's agent, Jim Steiner, and Bears negotiator Ted Phillips met for two hours Sunday. 
.. Steiner said some progress was made, but the Bears insist on weight clauses in the co.ntract because they say Perry's 
performance suffers if he is overweight. 
Coach Mike Ditka has said he won't put Perry on the field until he's down to 320. Last season, while effective early, he reportedly weighed close to 400 pounds by season's end. 
Rod Woodson, Pittsburgh's Pro Bowl cornerback, is out for four weeks after tearing a calf muscle in the Steelers' 28-17 win over the Chicago Bears on Sunday. 
That's only one of a series of injuries in the secondary. 
Cornerback Stan Smagala, a Notre Dame graduate, underwent arthroscopic surgery Monday on his left knee and also will not play for four weeks. D.J. Johnson, who started opposite Woodson last season, has a sprained right shoulder and will be out for three weeks. Raiders 
Los Angeles released eight players Monday, including veteran running backs Terrence Flagler and Vance Mueller and linebacker Niko Noga. 
Mueller had been a backup fullback for the past five years. Noga, signed as a Plan B free agent, had been a special teams specialist and is one of eight players suing the NFL over free agency, a trial currently taking place in a Minneapolis court. 
Among those cut by the New York Jets was Bruce Collie, a part-time starter at guard on San Francisco's 1988-89 Super Bowl champions. He had been cut by Philadlephia in April. 
Also among the 10 players cut were Joe Mott, a two-year veteran linebacker, quarterback Mike Norseth and Roy Hart. Norseth had spent time with Cleveland, Cincinnati, Houston and Green Bay and also played in the World League. Hart also played in the World League and was signed when not protected by the Raiders this year. His only full NFL season was with Seattle in 1989. 
1\vo injured New York Giants regulars, safety Myron Guyton and wide receiver Ed McCaffrey returned to practice Monday while ninth-year linebacker Gary Reasons underwent an MRI on his sprained left knee. 
Coach Ray Handley said doctors will evaluate the test. 
The Giants cut 13 players, including Clint James, a defensive lineman who spent two years with the team on injured reserve, and 11th-round draft choice Nate Singleton, a wide receiver. 
The Giants also placed wide receiver Millard Hamilton and running back Charles Young, both free agents, on injured reserve, meaning they cannot play this season. 
Green Bay waived seven players and put three others on injured reserve. 
The team waived lOth-round draft choice Andrew Oberg, a tackle from North Carolina, and 11th-rounder Gabe Mokuwah, a linebacker from American International. 
Also released were three veterans of various camps, wide recevier Bernard Ford, punter Bryan Wagner and offensive tackle Tom Rother. 
Shawn Patterson, a veteran defensive end, went on IR with a knee injury along with rookie tight end Mark Chmura and rookie wide receiver Orlando McKay. All are out for the season. 
Starting Seatlle defensive end much-traveled Garrett brothers Michael Bankston. Jacob Green will miss 1-3 from Princeton who starred in The Los Angeles Rams traded weeks with a sprained right the World League. linebacker Frank Starns to knee sustained in Saturday:s Phoenix released 10 players, Cleveland for a future 17-10 win over Phoenix. including Craig Patterson, a undisclosed draft choice. Starns, 
The Seahawks also cut 11 third-year defensive lineman in his fourth season, was a players including guard Kris who started 12 games at right second-round draft pick out of Rongen, an 11th-round draft end last season and one at nose Notre Dame in 1989, one of the choice from Washington, and guard. players chosen with picks cornerback Harlan Davis, a The 6-foot-4, 317 -pound obtained in the Eric Dickerson fifth-round pick a year ago who Patterson was a casualty of the deal. was on the practice squad last development of second-year year. ends Mike Jones and Eric He played in only five games 
Among those cut was running Swann and the strong training­last season when he was back Judd Garrett, one of the camp play of rookie nose guard hindered by injuries. 
Bruno's Pizza Back to School Special $2.00 off any size pizza w/Student I.D. io~~ Special Available Sun ~ Thur 4 ~ 10 p.m. offer expires 9~ 30~92 ~ DINE IN & CARRY OUT ONLY ~ (..,~~ '· 2610 Prairie Ave. 288~3320 ~CJ ..._cP ~~ >f? #0Welcome Back!  

&CC®®IL 
R~l ~..CK TO SCHOOl 
HEY DODES! EHJOY A DOMIHOS AWESOME PIZZA WITH YOOR FELLOW FIGHTIHG IRISH. ITS HOT AHD COOL FOR BACI< TO SCHOOL! 
r-------------------, 
1 Domino's Welcome Back Special 1 
: 1 medium pizza I with cheese only $3.lm :
1 

1 This week only! 1 
I I
Expires 8-30-92 

II ell·\lalld at par1iciJ~~IInO slores only. Not valid wilh any other oHers. Pri!ES may vary. Cuslo~ax I 
1(1 . where applrcable. Delrvery areas llmrled to ensure sale driving. Our drivers carry tess than $20.cxr I []I -· Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.© 1992 Domino's Pizza. Inc.
L 

-------------------~ 
,.. "'.\f"_ -, \ . b;·,,'
I ' 

Tuesday,August25, 1992 

AP file photo Dave Stewart raised his record to 9-8 and won his 13th consecutive decision over the hapless Boston Red Sox. 
Rocco's Restaurant 
Welcome back students and parents 
South Bend's "Original Pizza" and a tradition with students since 1951­
0nly a few blocks from campus Families welcome We serve the best in Italian Cuisine Try us and you'll agree 
Tues-Thurs 5 pm-12 am Fri -Sat 5 pm -1 am 
537 St. Louis Blvd. 233-2464 ~ Closed Sunday & Monday 
The Observer page 19 
Gladden's homer downs Twins 
' 

Ripken fails to prove worth as Orioles lose 5-2 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Dan Gladden, in his first game against the team he helped to World Series titles in 1987 and 1991, capped a four-run fifth inning with a two-run homer as the Detroit Tigers beat the Minnesota Twins 6-2 on Monday night. 
Gladden made two leaping catches at the left-field wall in addition to his getting his sixth home run. Cecil Fielder added a 423-foot homer in the eighth inning, his 28th shot of the year but first since Aug. 16. 
Eric King ( 4-4) allowed one run and four hits in seven innings for Detroit, which had lost eight straight at the Metrodome. 
Bill Krueger (10-5) lost consecutive decisions for the first time this year as Minnesota fell seven games behind Oakland in the AL West. 
Kent Herbk's had his 14th homer for Minnesota, which has lost seven of its last nine. 
Athletics 9, Red Sox 3 
BOSTON -Terry Steinbach's three-run homer, his 11th, ended a five-run inning and Dave Stewart won his 13th straight game against Boston. 
Stewart (9-8), whose streak against Boston includes three victories in the AL playoffs, last loss to the Red Sox on Aug. 19, 1988. He went 5 1-3 innings, giving up three runs on four hits and three walks. Stewart is 13­5 lifetime against Boston and 2­0 this season. 
The Athletics won their third straight game, scoring all their runs in the third against John Dopson (6-6). Oakland added four runs in the ninth. 
Yankees 9, Brewers 8 
NEW YORK -Mike Stanley's RBI double capped a four-run comeback in the eighth inning and New York handed Milwaukee its seventh straight road loss. 
Robin Yount singled to start a three-run seventh that tied it for Milwaukee, then doubled home the go-ahead run in the eighth as the Brewers took an 8-5 lead. Yount now has 2,984 career hits. 
But the Yankees bounced back in their half, tagging Doug Henry (1-2) with two outs on Danny Tartabull's two-run double, Mel Hall's RBI single and Stanley's double. 
Jerry Nielsen (1-0) got three outs for his first major league victory. Steve Farr pitched the ninth for his 20th save. 
White Sox 8, Blue Jays 4 
CHICAGO -Lance Johnson, Carlton Fisk and George Bell 
homered  to  lead  sizzling  
Chicago  over  struggling  
Toronto.  

Besides losing five of their last six, the Blue Jays have been outscored 43-17 in that span. The White Sox, meanwhile, have been on a hot streak, winning three straight, going 19-7 in their last 26 games and 15-3 at home. 
Alex Fernandez (6-7) won his third straight decision after allowing two runs on seven hits and a walk over seven innings. He hasn't lost in 10 starts since June 11. 
Doug Linton (1-3) gave up five runs in the second inning. 
Johnson and Fisk opened the inning with consecutive homers, the third of the year for each. Bell added his 22nd homer, a two-run shot in the sixth to cap Chicago's scoring. 
John Olerud had his 13th homer, a solo shot in the sixth, and Candy Maldonado his 16th, a two-run blast in the eighth, for Toronto. 
Angels 5, Orioles 2 

BALTIMORE -California won for the fifth time in six games, beating Baltimore on the day Cal Ripken got the richest contract in baseball history. 
Ripken, who signed a five­year, $32.5 million pact with the Orioles before the game, then went 0 for 4 with an error that led to an unearned run on his 32nd birthday. 
Jim Abbott (6-12) gave up eight hits in 8 2-3 innings for the Angels, whose previous trip to Baltimore in May followed a calamitous bus ride from New York in which manager Buck Rodgers and several players were injured in a frightful accident on the New Jersey Turnpike. 
Gooden takes charge with H R 
(AP) -Dwight Gooden decided it was time to take matters into own hands. 
Going into Monday night's game at Candlestick Park, the New York Mets had scored 10 

Student fares. 

ar ·s students. Hacienda oame and St. M y . d would like to
home Notre B nd agam an 
Welcome . you back in south e d refreshments in 
is pleased to see h best meal deals an 
that fort e
rem1nd you e to Hacienda. town. come hom 
u 0 -our famous $2 95 
,v,o . ·to rsmaller) .......... . 
wet Burn ' 

Tues _Choice of any . :to CombO with nee ..$2.95
Burn .. .
and soup or chi1I .............. . 

Wed. -SoftShell BeefTaco $2.95 with rice and be305 ...... · ...... 
'Thurs. _Beef Enchilada $2.95 with rice and beans ·..·........ 
Fri.-Seaf<XX1 Enchila~........$2.95 n't with rice and beans .. .. of you over 21 . do . d d * And for those
I ys mclu e . ts FREE chips ·n sauce a~~:t~:ily specials on refreshmen . forget we also have g -----:t-H-:­
\\0{(\e o acie 
south Bend 

~~~~c:;
M·shawal<-a scottsdale Mall t"' Q • .­d ~Indian Ridge P\az.a VH~
291-2566 ... a"'EJ(ciCAH.IRBnESTAURAHTd~
GrapeR . ~77-1318 ,U 33 at 100 Center I
US 2:5:

----·-·~ 9 -=8=5~41~~~--~:-·~DI~ne--in_o_rd-er:so:n:Y·ll 
· €JHac1enda Mex1can Resta-J,acts ··I 992 
runs in Gooden's 11 losses this season. 
Gooden, shaking off the circus atmosphere created by the presence of potential Giants buyer George Shinn, pitched seven strong innings and hit a two-run homer to lead the Mets past the San Francisco Giants 4-1 Monday night. 
"Hitting's fun," Gooden said. Pitching is more of a business. "All pitchers want to be hitters, and hitters want to be pitchers." 
While Gooden was hitting and pitching the Mets to victory, Shinn wandered around Candlestick Park with an entourage headed up by San Francisco mayor Frank Jordan, shaking hands with fans who cheered his every move and chanted "George! George!" throughout the game. 
Most of the 12,992 fans in attendance were more interested in getting a glimpse of Shinn than watching the game. Shinn, the owner of the NBA Charlotte Hornets, is in San Franciso meeting with Jordan and potential investors in hopes of forming an offer to buy the team and keep it from moving to St. Petersburg, Fla. 
"I couldn't help but notice the fans reacting to Shinn," Craig said, "but I couldn't be bothered. I'm trying to win ballgames." 
First baseman Will Clark was more emphatic about his opinion of the Shinn parade. 
"Too much stuff was going on up there," Clark said. "We knew what was going on, too. It was just more distractions. There'll be plenty more in a couple of weeks and you guys will have even more to write about." 
Elsewhere in the NL it was Cincinnati 8, Philadelphia 5; Chicago 6, San Diego 3 and Los Angeles 5, Pittsburgh 4. 
Reds 8, Phillies 5 

At Riverfront Stadium, Barry Larkin and Bip Roberts each homered and had three hits as Cincinnati beat slumping Philadelphia. Larkin had a pair of RBI singles and a solo homer, and Roberts doubled twice and added a solo homer to send the Phillies to their fourth straight loss. 
Larkin's two RBI singles and Roberts' run-scoring double helped the Reds open a 5-0 lead off Ben Rivera (3-3) after three innings. 
Darren Daulton hit his 23rd homer as the Phillies cut it to 5­4 against Chris Hammond (7-8), who lasted just five innings. But Larkin and Roberts homered to help the Reds pull away again, and Norm Charlton pitched the final two innings for his 25th save. 
Cubs 6, Padres 3 

At Jack Murphy Stadium, Frank Castillo recorded his first win since June 28 and Derrick May hit a three-run homer to cap a six-run third inning as Chicago won its fifth straight game. 
Castillo (7-10), who had four losses and five no-decisions in his last nine starts, gave up two runs on six hits in 7 1-3 innings. He walked two and struck out three. 
Greg Harris (2-5), making his first start for San Diego since suffering a fractured finger June 22 on an attempted bunt, allowed six runs on seven hits. 
page 20 The Observer Tuesday,August25, 1992 
Major league presidents call meeting over Vincent 

NEW YORK (AP) -The  performance in office."  
league presidents on Monday  American League president  
ignored the objection of Fay  Bobby Brown and National  
Vincent and called a special  League president Bill White  
major league meeting on Sept.  asked for the meeting on Aug.  
3 to discuss the commissioner's  17, but Vincent refused the  
status.  request last Thursday, saying  
It was not clear if a group of  the purpose of the session  
dissident owners would attempt  would be "unlawful and  
to force Vincent out of office  contrary to the Major League  
during the session, which will  Agreement," the contract that  
be held at Rosemont, Ill.  governs baseball. He also sent a  
Vincent's term runs through  five-page letter to owners in  
March 31, 1994, and the  which he vowed never to resign  
commissioner and his  and to fight any effort to  
supporters say he cannot be  remove him in court.  
fired. However, some owners  "I am pleased that the league  
disagree with that  presidents have called a  
interpretation of the Major  meeting," said Chicago White  
League Agreement.  Sox owner Jerry Reinsdorf,  
"I don't know what's going to  believed to be one of the  
happen," Chicago Cubs  leaders of the anti-Vincent  
chairman Stanton Cook said.  group. ''I'm looking forward to  
"We kind of have to go through  a frank and open discussion of  
the meeting and go through the  the problems which have  
issues they want to discuss."  necessitated the calling of the  
Asked what those matters  meeting."  
were, Cook said, "The duties of  The Major League Agreement  
the commissioner and the  has a provision that allows the  

Irish football graduates 90°/o 
Special to The Observer Christian University, which shared the Academic The graduation rate of the Achievement Award by gradu­University of Notre Dame's ating 100 percent of their foot­football-playing students has ball student-athletes. Notre earned honors from the College Dame was the first school to hit Football Association (CFA) for the 100 percent mark in 1988, the 11th consecutive year. when the Fighting Irish also Among 14 universities receiv­won the national championship 
ing honorable mention from the on the field. CFA, Notre Dame was one of 
just four to graduate better The University of Virginia, than 90 percent of its football Duke and Vanderbilt student-athletes. Universities joined Notre Dame 
The top honor in 1992 went as the only schools to top 90 to Boston College and Texas percent. 
Apple Macintosh PowerBook"145 4/40 Apple Macintosh Classic• II 
Get over '400 worth of preloaded software when you buy one of the Apple® Macintosh® computers shown above at our best prices ever. And ifyou are interested in financing options, be sure to ask for details about the Apple Computer Loan. But hurry, because student 
Notre Dame Computer Store 
Room 112 Math/Computer Building 
239-7477 

league presidents to call a joint find out how everybody feels, to session if a commissioner see what kind of majority there refuses to act on their request is." within five days. White The Major League Agreement personally delivered the formal states in Article IX "that no call for the meeting to Vincent diminution of the compensation on Monday before a brief or powers of the present or any telephone conference call succeeding commissioner shall among owners to approve the be made during his term of sale of the Detroit Tigers. office." 
"I have no comment," Vincent said later in the day. "I think I However, some owners have addressed the issue in my cited an article by University of letter." Connecticut law professors 
Baseball officials said Vincent Robert L. Bard and Lewis probably will not attend the Kurlantzick in the Aug. 17 issue of The Connecticut Law Tribune in which they say the matter of a firing is unclear. 
"I have no way of predicting," Brown said when asked what he expected from the meeting. 
Asked if a firing or vote of no confidence was possible, Brown said, "I just can't comment on that. You have to get the opinion of owners from themselves." 
session because he believes it r.:========================:;"'
will be unlawful. In his absence, the owners would elect a pre!!iding officer, and one owner said Monday he expected the league presidents would run the session. 
One owner, speaking on the condition he not be identified, said he didn't expect a firing to come during at the meeting. 
"I don't think that's the goal," he said. "I think the goal is to 
2 DAYS LEFT TO 
GET THE OFFICIAL
Hours: Mon. -Fri. 8:00-5:30 
Sat. 8:00-3:00 

STUDENT TRIP TO 
MAPLE LANE BARBER SHOP 
THE USC GAME 
2112 South Bend Avenue 
FOR $459°0 
South Bend, IN 46637 (Cost is $544°0 after $459°0)
Appointments if Desired 
Package includes air, hotel, transfer & game ticket 
272-6722 

Come by our convenient location in LaFortune Student Center for all of your travel needs 



tos 
-

Apple Macintosh LC II Apple Macintosh !lsi 
aid like this is only available through October 15, 1992-and only at: your authorized Apple campus reseller. 

© 1992 Apple Compu1er, Inc. Apple, 1he Apple logo, and Macimosh are regis1ered 1rademarks ofApple Compuler, Inc Classic b a regislcred 1radcmark licensed lo Apple Compuler, Inc. Powerll<x1k is a lrddcmark of Apple Compu1er, Inc. The Random House Encyclopedia is a1rademark of Random House, Inc. American Heri1age Eleclronic Dinionary, Elec1ronic Thesaurus, and CorrecText® developed by Houghwn Miffiin Company, publisher of The American Heri1age Dinionary and Rogel's II: The New Thesaurus. CorrecTex! underlying 1echnology developed b) Language Sys1ems, Inc. Calendar Crea10r is a1rademark of Power Up Software Corporalion. ResumeWriler is a1rademark of Bmlware Soflware Company, Inc. All pnxlucl names are 1he 1radcmark of !heir respeclive holder.;. Offer good on !he Macimosh Powerll<lOk 145 4/40 configuralion only. All qualifying compuler.; come preloaded wilh software and elearonic ver.;ions of ins1ruc1ions. Disks and primed manuals arc nO! included in !his offer. 
The Observer 

Tuesday,August25, 1992 
Ripken signs $32.5 million megacontract 
BALTIMORE (AP) -Cal Ripken got a very expensive 32nd birthday present on Monday: a $32.5 million, five­year contract that's the richest total deal in baseball history. 
Ripken, a 10-time American League All-Star, will average $6.5 million a year un­der the contract, which in av­erage annual value trails only the deal Ryne Sandberg of the Chicago Cubs agreed to in March, a four-year contract worth $7.1 million per season. In total money, Ripken's con­tract surpasses Bobby Bonilla's $29 million, five-year deal with the New York-Mets. 
"This contract represents the fair value of Cal Ripken to the Baltimore Orioles," Orioles president Larry Lucchino said. "When you're negotiating, you do it from all the data you can accumulate. We know what Cal Ripken means to the Orioles, and to their fans." 
Ripken, who is making $2.1 
million in 1992 in an option year, will get a $3 million signing bonus, part at the end of this year and part next year. He gets salaries of $4.5 million in 1993, $4.8 million in 1994, $6 million in each of the 1995 and 1996 seasons and $6.2 million in 1997. The final two years are at Ripken's option. 
Included in the deal is a $2 million offer for a post-playing career employment contract with the Orioles at a salary of $500,000 per year. 
Lucchino said that because $2 million is for after the end of Ripken's playing career, it should not be included in de­termining the contract's value, in which case the average would drop to $6.1 million. However, if past practice is fol­lowed, it would be included in contract evaluations by man­agement's Player Relations Committee and the Major League Baseball Players Association. 
"It's a gigantic a\llount of money, a gigantic commit­ment," Lucchino said. "We made an offer of $30 million at spring training, and this is an improvement on that." 
The Orioles announced the deal prior to their game against the California Angels. Moments after doffing his hat to the standing crowd, Ripken scooped up a grounder and started a 6-4-3 double play in the top of the first inning. 
In his first at-bat, he hit into a fielder's choice with two outs and two runners on base. It was his 1,698th consecutive game, the second-longest string in major-league history behind Lou Gehrig's 2,130. 
"Reaching an agreement with the Orioles was a continu­ing objective of Cal's in this ne­gotiation, and a truly unique and harmonious relationship between a club and player has been cemented," said Ripken's agent, Ron Shapiro. 



REMINGTON COURT 
Nobody Compares with Sexton 
Ideal For Single Living! 
Dorm Sih;,le Living Living 

0 !if Your own kitchen 
0 !if Your own microwave !if Your own refrigerator!if Your own bedroom
@~~0~ 
ri'f Your own private bath [if Your own washer/dryer
~~~0 
[if Your own large closets ~g !if Your own lake view ri'f Your own phone

~ g !if Your own alarm system 0 [if Your own study/TV room 0 ri'f Your own heater/air conditioner 
• To-Your-Door Parking 
• Club House for Football Parties 
• Pool & Jaccuzzi 
• To-Your-Door Mail Delivery 
And So Much More!!! 
Call 255-7777 Today! 
...... 
YOU GET THE WHOLE ENCHILADA! 
Give yourself the rewards that owning your own business can 

-
bring. Financial freedom and independence are being offered in an exceptional opportunity by Seiior Salsa's, "the fastest growing Mexican Food Franchise System in America·:·we are a nationally acclaimed Gourmet Mexican Fast Food Franchise offering home delivery and toke-out. We ore curreoV\y seeking individuals for your city ond surrounding areas. An exciting opportunity exists for those individuals with a desire to earn a higli five figure income, with all the benefits and pride of busi· ness ownership. An extremely low total investment of $19,800 provides you with everything necessary for a successful business and fully protected Multi-store opportunity, including Equip· ment, Inventory, Shoppe Location and Fixtures, Training at Corporate Headquarters, Advertising and Morlceting. 
To learn more about 1his exciting opportunity call Mr. Larry Reed in Columbus, OH at 
1-800-837-3624 
No prior 
restaurant 
experience 
req~to~ired. 

The Observer Tuesday,August25, 1992
page 22 

Murphy picks Irish over 'Caness;::::Po==Rr==s==sRI==EFs===========================... 
Baseball coach declines Miami's offer to leave 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 

When students finished school in May, two things were expected from the Notre Dame baseball team. 
The Irish were going to have a successful trip to the NCAA Tournament, and Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy was going to accept an offer to become head coach at the University of Miami (Fla.). Fortunately, only the former came to be. 
Notre Dame almost shocked the college baseball world in the Atlantic Regional of the tournament, which featured top-ranked Miami (Fla.). 
After dropping their first game in the double-elimination tournament to South Carolina, the Irish bounced back to defeat Miami, Delaware and South Carolina respectively. The three wins left them just one game from Omaha, the site of the College World Series. 
The Hurricanes, however, were not about to let coach Ron Fraser end his 30 year career at Miami without a trip to Omaha, and they topped the Irish 5-1 to advance. 
Murphy did shock the college baseball world by deciding to stay at Notre Dame. 
"I think even my family was surprised, but I have invested so much in this prDgram and with all that we have accom­plished I wasn't ready to walk away. 
I have watched the program grow and grow. People are waiting for us to come down to earth, but it is not going to hap­pen. 
We have one of the most solid programs in the country, one that is based on discipline, work ethic and talented people," Murphy explained. 
The Notre Dame program is indeed solid, as the Irish have compiled a 226-84-1 record in the five years since Murphy took over a program that had gone 65-80 in the three previ­ous seasons. 
Despite the tremendous achievements of the Notre Dame program, Murphy "strongly considered" the offer from Miami, which boasts one of the most successful pro­grams in the country. 
He had a chance to replace a college baseball legend in Fraser, a three-time NCAA Coach of the Year and 1992 United States Olympic Coach, but Murphy opted to stay with the program that he has built into a national power. 
"Money and weather aside, this is what is best for me. People can say that Murph is scared of the big time, but all that I have to say is that we're in the big time. 
We've beaten Miami five of nine times we've played them. Why should I go to a program that can't beat us?" 
In addition to his team's im­pressive record against the Hurricanes, Murphy has more reasons to stay. 
"The new stadium (which will be ready for the 1994 season) has me very excited," Murphy said. 
There are also the benefits of the Irish's post-season success. 
"We will not forget how close we came (to Omaha)," the Irish coach commented. 
He feels that will motivate his team throughout the off­season. 
The 1993 squad will have to replace five starters, nonethe­less Murphy is confident. 
"I could say that this is going to be a rebuilding year, but I honestly think this group will come together and be a good club. 
This confidence is based on how hard I know they (the players) will work and the fact 
that we believe in ourselves." 
Fiesta Bowl photo adorns JACC 

Special to the Observer 

The Notre Dame Alumni Association has taken delivery of a unique gift from the National Collegiate Athletic Association-an eight foot high circular exhibit depicting the opening kickoff of the 1989 Fiesta Bowl in which the Notre Dame football team secured a national championship. 
The photograph, taken by noted sports photographer Rick Clarkson, was taken from the Irish 35-yard line as they prepared to kick off and spans a full 360 degrees. The three­inch high 35mm negative was then enlarged to 14 separate photographic transparencies eight feet high and four feet wide which were then laminated to a clear, flexible material. These panels are called Duratrans. When assembled "in the round," the entire photo mural spans a twenty foot diameter, not including the outer structure which houses the florescent tubes that backlight the Dura trans. 
The Fiesta Bowl photo had been displayed until this spring at the NCAA's Visitors Center in Overland Park, Kansas before being replaced by a photo of the 1992 Rose Bowl. Thanks to conversations among the NCAA Visitors Center, Clarkston, Notre Dame sports information director John Heisler and Alumni Association Executive Director Charles Lennon, Jr., the Duratran panels made the journey from storage to South Bend in May. 
But the panels are only part of the story. Lennon hired Bruce Auerbach, associate professional specialist in Notre Dame's department of communication and theater to create the framework into which the Duratrans would be displayed with an eye toward making the whole cyclorama transportable. The result is a free-standing structure faced in fake brick, complete with Notre Dame pennants and crowd noise delivered via an integrated audio system. 
The cyclorama will be placed on semi-permanent display in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center fieldhouse during home football weekends, providing visitors to the alumni hospitality center in the Joyce Center fieldhouse the opportunity to step back in time. The hospitality center is open to all alumni, friends and visitors to the University beginning at 9 a.m. on game 
-The gang is back together ... 

Welcome Back Sally, Marie, & Buzi! 
We missed ya'11 tons! 
Love, Jackie & Anne 
days and closes one hour after the game's conclusion. The center features food, concerts by the Glee Club and Shenanigans, performances by the Notre Dame cheerleaders and porn pon teams, Notre Dame videos, and large screen television. 


Ice Cream 
Now being served at your favorite campus 
restaurants and 
eateries! 

My Daddy Makes The Best Ice Cream For the 
~-t\NG ~ f<.'(j of ~ :-Notre Dame ~.. 
~ 

Tuesday,August25, 1992 page 23 
.: 

ItMlt MoiYl, she +hinks all I ever do if' go through 'phases: 'You chahged your major ~9atn? Now i+s ftnhic Dance Forrn5?vJhe11 are you goin3 +o come to your fenre5 and pick 5orr;et~}"'9 ~eMible? ()i9h) Well. I
~ l sue~s if) juff another ehafe.' }o Itold her, 'Give me a break Ma. I-mean I kept the )a me phone company a// four yearJ~ .. She was irnpre)Sed." 
-

o matter what phase of college life you're in, will separate your AT&T Long Distance calls from AT&T can help you through it. Just choose those your roommates make. The AT&T Calling Card AT&T Long Distance. And you'll become a ~~~~~~~~~~-lets you call from almost anywhere to anywhere. Also, 
member of AT&T Student Saver Plus, a line of products IJi when you sign up for AT&T, your first call is free.* 
and services designed specifically to meet your needs And with AT&T, you'll get the most reliable long 
while you're in college. distance service. 
Our Reach Oue Plans can save you money on AT&T Long So ask about AT&T Student Saver Plus. You too, will Distance, no matter when and where you call. Call Manager be impressed. 
If you're an off-campus student, sign up for Am' Student Saver Plus by calling 1800 654-0471 Ext. 848. 
ATs.T 
©199.! AT&1: •You'llll'Ceivc one S3 AT&T L.D. Ct.'rUOOue cquivaleruto l1 minuleScldilt'Ct·diak'd, coasHo·coast. nigh! andwrt.>kcndC1IIinRbaj;C(j on nates effective 6/8/9l. Yoo could ge: more or fewer minutes depeodiflK oo where or when ~oo all. Offl'f limtted to one certifiall.' (K'!' student. 

----~ -----------­
page 24 The Observer 
Tuesday,August25, 1992 


• Hall of Fame comes to Michiana 
By MONICA YANT 
Editor-in-Chief 

Football fans will have a sec­
ond reason to visit South Bend 
when the National Football 
Foundation's College Hall of 
Fame is completed in 1994. 
The 50,000 square foot 
facility will be located at the 
corner of Washington and St. 
Joseph streets, directly across 
from the Century Center. The 
hall will house exhibits 
spanning· the history of college 
football, beginning with the first 
game played between Rutgers 
and Princeton in 1865. 

University officials maintained that securing the hall is a triumph for the city alone to savor. 
"'We've got probably more Hall of Famers than anyone," said Father E. William Beauchamp, executive vice president. "But it's more impor­tant for what (the decision) means to the city and the local community." 
Irish football coach Lou Holtz agrees. He said the decision is "a real tribute to the leadership in this community" and should not be viewed as a "University success." 
Still, some say the Notre Dame connection is hard to ig-
Piane hopes for 'pretty decent' cross-country team 
By JENNY MARTEN The freshman class features a Associate Sports Editor parade of cross country state champions in Andy Burns-(Georgia), Joe Dunlap (New
In the words of Notre Dame 
York) and Mike Smedley 
cross country coach Joe Piane, (Michigan). Also hoping to con­the men's cross country team 
tribute will be Jeff Hojnacki
should be "pretty decent." 

who finished fourth in Ohio and 
Kind of modest for a team Derrick Seiling who finished that returns two former cross 
third in Pennsylvania and Eric country AU-Americans in John Fassano, a promising runner Coyle and Mike McWilliams, from Quebec. 
solid seniors, juniors and 
Piane knows that he lost two 
sophomores and a bumper crop quality runners in Pat Kearns of talented freshman. 
and Mike Drake. 

Several of the returning run­"Kearns is a big loss and Mike ners distinguished themselves 
Drake was always solid. We 
during the 1992 track season. 
won't be able to replace their Senior Nick Radkewich went to personalities, but we can re­the Intercollegiate Association 
place them as cross country
of Amateur Athletes of America runners," said Piane. 
(IC4A) meet in the 10,000 me­ters. Sophomore John Cowan 
The Irish will open the season 
ran the second fastest by hosting Georgetown on steeplechase in recent Irish September 12, the National 
track history and Nate Ruder Invitational on
Catholic 

ran well during the indoor and 
September 25 and the Notre 
outdoor track seasons. 

Dame Invitational on October 2. 
Sycamores plan to retire Bird's number this season 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. (AP) -retired from the NBA. Faison Indiana State University is said that honor is being finally ready to retire the blue­plann~>d. 
nore. 

"The city of South Bend is 
linked with the history of col­
lege football more than any 
other city in the country," said 
Mayor Joe Kernan. 

"The hall is hoping for the 
rich football tradition at the 
University will help attract 
fans," said Brian Boulac, assis­
tant athletic director. 

Notre Dame has bragging rights to the College Hall of Fame: 32 players, including the legendary George Gipp and the Four Horsemen, as well as five coaches. The 37 inductees are more than any other school in the country. Over 600 players and coaches have been in­ducted into the hall since it was founded in 194 7. 
Months of negotiations be­tween the foundation and city officials led to the July 13 deci­sion. With a population of just 105,000, South Bend was the smallest of the final cities vying for the hall, according to Michael Fallon, an independent consultant working for the foundation. 
"The reason that South Bend won the competition rests squarely on the fact that ulti­mately, they put forward the most complete, most compelling and most professional response to the question that was posed," Fallon said. 
Houston, Atlanta, New 
Orleans and the Meadowlands 
Sports Complex in New Jersey 
were passed over in the deci­
sion. 

The South Bend site is not the 
first for the hall. After years of 
existing as a series of exhibits 
at foundation headquarters, an 
official museum was opened in 
1978 at King's Island, Ohio. 
But poor attendance at the 
facility caused officials to re­
think their decision. 

"The location was, regret­tably, almost fundamentally flawed by what everyone origi­nally thought would be its greatest benefit-its location next to the amusement park," he said. The location, Fallon added, "became a distraction, more than an encouragement, to attendance." 
Averaging just 50,000 visitors 
per year, the King's Island facil­ity did not come close to meet­ing the 300,000 projected an­nual attendance, Fallon said. 
By September of 1990, foun­dation officials decided to relo­cate the hall. 
More than 80 cities were in­vited to submit proposals to se­cure the facility, Fallon said. The field was eventually nar­rowed to 30, then to 18. 
A short list of five cities:....:;:w~a;:,s--.--...----~r----::lr----71~--, 

iill~~~~ 
F~m~.. will••••••····•••····
•-f:i~Jocatea·.··•·•····•· ••a,t.•VY~$6ihg~····· 
••&%1~?e~i~····•••· ···~~~~~~clth.....•..
6.gqq.. Jti$".·..)> 
t!J~i!l~
J9Q4/ >··· .·.·.·.·.·. 

JBA 
selected by the foundation last $13.6 million project. Kernan 
March. said the city offer "major na­
"Clearly , it wasn't based on tiona! corporations" the oppor­population," said Fallon of the tunity to be a part of the hall. decision to relocate in South With "conservative" atten-Bend. dance estimates of 200,000 a 
He cited the "completeness year, Kernan said the hall and professionalism" of the should generate at least $1 mil­
city's proposal and said the fi-lion a year alone. He added that nancial package was the city stands to gain signifi­"compelling." cantly from out-of-town busi-
South Bend will lead a ness for South Bend hotels, fundraising effort to finance the restaurants and merchants. 

and-white uniform Larry Bird 
wore while leading the 
Sycamores to the NCAA final in 
1979. 

Bird had requested that his No. 33 college uniform not be retired until he left basketball completely. He announced his retirement from the Boston Celtics last week. 
No player has worn Bird's number since he led the Sycamores to a 33-1 record and a runner-up finish in the NCAA tournament to Magic Johnson and Michigan State in 1979. 
Athletic director Brian Faison said he hoped the official retirement ceremony would occur during the upcoming basketball season. 
Bird also asked Indiana State to delay his induction to its athletic Hall of Fame until he 
• 
$5.30 per hour • meet new people 

• 
flexible evening hours • training 

• 
no experience necessary • real life experience 


Please join us for an informal 

OPEN HOUSE/INFORMATION SESSION 
Wednesday, August 26th 4:00-6:00pm at the Annual Fund Phone Center (Southeast corner of Badin Hall) 
P~e~ P~e~ 
If you have any questions, please call: Kathy Webb 239-7938 
The Observer page 25
Tuesday, August25, 1992 

P@as~7 Day Delivery 
~ ~JttoJ Roses Flowers ~\.J Balloons Plants Gift & Fruit Baskets 
"YOUR FULL SERVIC£ FtORIS!  
Clocktower Square  (219)277,1291  
51400 31 North  Order l4 hrs  
South Bend, IN 46637  a day  

Mention this ad and receive 10°/o off 
Not good for Valentine's Day 
···················································································· 
WELCOME WEEKEND '92 
THURSDAY. AUGUST 27TH 
Encino Man  SB White Sox vs. Beloit Brewers  
7 pm. 9:30pm, 12:00 am  7 pm--Coveleski Field  
Cushing Auditorium FREE'  FREE Tickets at La Fortune  .-J l:!  
Info Desk  ~· ~tz; ~  
-"--~­ 

FRIDAY, AUGUST 28TH 
Live at Stonehenge: Rockfest! 4 pm-12:00 am Fieldhouse Mall (Rain Location: Stepan Center) Bands scheduled to appear: 
The Porkchoppers Ryan's Suitcase 
Victoria's Real Secret XYZ Affair Dysfunktion Access Denied Katharsis 
Free snow cones, sodas, popcorn, spin art! 
SATURDAY. AUGUST 29th 
Beach Party at Stepan Courts lpm-5pm WVFI live remote Tie-dyeing One ton sundae Volleyball tournament Giveaways 

SATURDAY/SUNDAY AUGUST 29th/30th 
Comedian Carrot Top as seen on MTV, Showtime Comedy Club 
Network, Evening at the Improv ~~iJ~~ 8 pm Washington Hall t, Tickets: $3 at the La Fortune Info Desk 
Sponsored by: Student Activities, Student Union. Board, WVFI, Classes of1993, 1994 and 1995 • 
.................................................................................... 
Irish women come a long way 
Talented freshman class gives veterans a boost 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
Only five years ago, Notre Dame did not have a women's soccer team. 
Just two years ago, the Irish were playing Division III pushovers such as Indiana University-South Bend and Calvin College. 
Then last season, they burst upon the national scene by cracking the top-20 and nar­rowly missing the NCAA Tournament. 
This season the Irish are setting their sights even higher. 
"We will be a better team this year," Notre Dame coach Chris Petrucelli said, "We are more talented and more experienced than last year." 
The additional talent comes from the talented freshman class, which has exceeded Petrucelli's high expectations thus far. 
"You never know how fresh­
men will react until they get 
here, but they have made the 
adjustment to the next level. We 
will probably start four fresh­
men and have six or seven who 
play." 

Michelle Lodyga 
Notre Dame lost only three players from last year's team which lost to Central Florida in a game that had significant im­plications on NCAA Tournament selections. 
"We had never been in that situation before. This year we are going to find ourselves in it a lot," Petrucelli commented. 
The Irish will have to use that experience to their advantage if they are to be successful against a much tougher schedule which includes Duke and SMU. 
One place this experience will be evident will be in goal, where senior captain Michelle Lodyga returns from a fantastic season. She posted a 0.54 goals against average along with 11 shutouts. 
In the backfield Petrucelli expects the already strong de­fense to be more athletic than the 1991 version which yielded only 0.72 goals per game. 
The midfield ranks amongst the best in the country, but the Irish are facing a potential problem up front. 
Stephanie Porter, last year's leading scorer, is still recover­ing from last spring's recon­structive knee surgery and may not be at 100 percent for the September 5 season opener at North Carolina State. 
"We are going to have to rely on Alison (Lester) and the freshmen," Petrucelli ex­plained. "We are not going to have one dominant goal scorer, but we are going to have a lot of good goal scorers." 
Petrucelli has no set starting lineup, and it might stay that way throughout the season. 
"We might change every game, but we will be more flexible and will be able to change how we play for each opponent. 
Nigro and Carney team up to help needy children with KickStart For Kids program 

-±-~:r A r-1s 

• 
Bountiful Baskets 
[Tl 

Baskets of Gifts for aU Occasions 
' 

Parents make leaving home 1 a little easier... n 
Sweet Tooth Basket Munchies Basket 2doz. homemade cookies 12 oz. beek stick 2 LARGE muffins I wrapped cheese 4 fruit 2 lb. box crackers 8 oz. Snackens 2 fruits 8 oz. Calf. Mix 1bag of candy kisses 2candy bars 2 pkg. gum 2 pkg. gum 
$22.95 $24.95 
Delivery free on campus 
1,8Q0,373,9716 
or 

272--9776 
We do special baskets and gifts for birthdays, football weekend baskets to hotels or thank ou to horne. 
ner at Notre Dame, Carney holds numerous Irish kicking records, among them most field goals in a season (21) and in a 
·tareer (51). 
Nigro. a plastic and recon­structive surgeon with a prac­tice in Encintas, Calif..· estab­lished Fresh Start in 1986. He is assisted by a team of medical personnel and more than 50 volunteers, including members of the Notre Dame Club of San Diego. 
For his humanitarian efforts, Nigro received the 1992 Dooley Award from the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Nigro says his inspiration to found Fresh Start came from the work of Dr. Thomas Dooley, the Notre Dame physician who, until his 
-
death in 1961 at age 34, at­tended to thousands of refugees in Southeast Asia. 
To join Carney, Nigro and the KickStart team, call (619) 944­7774. 
Local prep stars move on to Saint Mary's program 
Special to the Observer 

Two local athletes will con­tinue their basketball careers on the collegiate level at Saint Mary's College this season. 
Colleen Andrews, who aver­aged 14 points per game as a senior at Mishawaka Marian, and Laura Wright, a defensive specialist from Goshen High School. are the two newest members of the Belles' incom­ing freshman class. 
Andrews, who also averaged five steals and three assists per game in her senior year, holds school records for three-point goals in a game and in a sea­son. She earned 10 varsity let­ters as a Marian athlete. 
As a senior at Goshen, Wright averaged five points and four rebounds per game for the Lady Redskins. 
Special to the Observer 
1\vo University of Notre Dame graduates will team up during the National Football League season to help youngsters in need of medical attention. 
Dr. Dennis Nigro, a 1969 alumnus, and John Carney, place-kicker for the San Diego Chargers and a 1987 graduate, have created KickStart For Kids, a venture designed to support the Fresh Start Surgical Gifts program. 
Founded by Nigro, the San Diego-based Fresh Start pro­vides reconstructive surgery at no charge for children with physical deformities. Nigro and other medical professionals and volunteers donate their time and talents to the program, which was cited last year by President Bush as a "Point of Light." 
Individuals and companies 
can join KickStart For Kids by 
pledging one dollar or more for 
John Carney 

every point Carney scores this season for the Chargers. He to­taled 88 points last year and hopes to score 100 or more in 1992. 
In addition to helping chil­dren in need of complicated and costly surgery procedures, KickStart participants will be eligible for a variety of prizes, including a trip to the Super Bowl. 
A four-year monogram win­
page 26 The Observer Tuesday August 25, 1992 
Volleyballers prepare to spike Debbie Brown begins second year at helm 
By JENNY MARTEN Hensel. Tuttle is a setter while she's a real smart player," said 
Associate Sports Editor Hensel is an all-around player Brown. with strengths in defense and Also returning for the Irish passing. will be outside hitter Marilyn 
With the first match quickly Providing leadership for the Cragin, middle blocker Jessica approaching, the Notre Dame team will be senior captain Fiebelkorn, setter Janelle volleyball team is gearing up to Alicia Turner. The outside hitter Karlan and middle blocker try to improve upon last year's will be a major contributor on Molly Stark. Notre Dame will season. the offense. also be looking for Andrea The Irish completed their first "She has been a real contrib­Armento, Dyan Boulac, Nicole 20-win season since 1987 with utor and team player. She has Coates, Julie Harris, Cynthia 
a 26-10 record as well as very good all-around skills and May and Christy Peters to con­finishing second in the National good leadership qualities and tribute this year. Invitational Volleyball Championships to close the 
WELCOME STUDENTS 
campaign. 

This season oflicially starts on September 1 at 7:30p.m. when the Irish take on Ball State at home, but the team has been practicing twice a day for over a week. 
Second-year head coach 
FULL SERVICE RESTAURANT
Debbie Brown is happy with the preseason practices. "So far we have had a pretty 
OPEN 24 hours .. 7 Days a Week 
good preseason," said Brown. "We've made some real good 
Friendly, Casual Dining 
progress." The Irish will have a few 
with daily specials 
spots to fill with the loss of 
Jennie Bruening, Chris 
Choquette and Katie 
Just minutes from Notre Datne
Kavanaugh to graduation. Fortunately for Notre Dame, 
Campus ( Take Angela East to S.R. 23 
the team is returning a strong core of players. 
[1sr stoplight east of campus] Left on 
"Each year presents a new 
S.R. 23 to Ironwood. We're 1/4 of a 
challenge," said Brown. "The seniors were valuable and im­
block on your left hand side.)
portant parts of the team, but 
they are not irreplaceable. The 
returning starters and under­
Present this ad to your server & you and 
classmen are very competitive, 
your party will receive a lOo/o discount.
have good skills and are good athletes." 
Expires 9-30-92 The volleyball team will also have two new comers this year 
1710 N. Ironwood Dr. • 2 77-7400
in Shannon Tuttle and Brett 
-
• 
.­



Today
Tuesday, August25, 1992 page 27 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON t @Lt>l'\t
I IT£L I ~AVE 
R~\..li 11-1\~KAI\\ O'al\G~IION 


TO \:EEP f>. 
JOIJR!-.IA.L 01= 
!-\~ 11-\0~G\-\IS . 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Bakers' helpers 34 Stadium sound 
1 Luxuriant 35 Neither masc. 
5 "Per.~spera ad 
norfem. 36 Former

10 Bugler's "good night" 
37 Low-cut shoes 14 Arrow poison 38American 
author-voyager:15Auto metal 19th century 16 Prognostication 39 Ancient Italian 

17 Stag or cob 11 Tooth adjunct_ town 
40 Asslstan----­

19-Ben 
arsonistAdhem 41 Any Edmonton 20 French hockey player 

followers 42 Pilchards
23 Location 24 Hood's rod 44 Refer (to) 25 Desserts served 45 Brother's title 
at the Bastille's 46 Pochard fall? 47 French 21Maxims companions 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

R 0 V A L G I N A T I T 0 i 
WEU.., 11-\E 
WOR.LO \Sl'I.T 
GCIN.G TO <:£T IT 
CI-\E~?­
55 Dugout, in Dijon 56 Weird 57 Pa. port sa Surf sound 59 Betulaceous 
tree eoTante 
translation 61 Headland 62 English potter 63 Middle: Comb. 
form 
DOWN 
1 Arm or leg 2A sloth 3Vend 4 French suites sTies &Wild West 
transport, for short 
7 Look after 
a Rise high 9 People making statements 
10 French 
connections 30 Washington's 46 Emulated Hari 11 Both: Prefix portraitist 47 Mend with 12 Drudge 31 Radio-receiver thread 
13Warmly part 48 A woodwind comfortable 32 Origin 49 Fragments for 21 Expires 34Hayseed Fido 
22 Bursa 37 Cure-ails so Employee 25 Ill te~pers 41 Music halls 26 Fla. City 
I R E N E 0 R E M E R 0 S I 28 Quinces, e.g. P A S T G A R S R E N 0 29 Absorbed 44 ~~~~f~st 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
27 Longfellow 43ltthrives on Apr. -----------­
.. showers of Get answers to any three clues
concern 
Form 1 040 by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 
OF AA'I\1-\\~G-. s:> Tt-l\ ORJ>,Wit-IG­Sc»\~ !'N>-RTIM\5 f•.TI~CKI~G­


th~ co. t
IK0\11-.N.M'Ol\S . 

Things from lpanema 
8-Z.S 
f;j~

111 ~ 


-the cow 
~­
-


51 Church 
calendar 52 Align 53 Cheese 


-
covering 54 Himalayan mystery monster 

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS 
We{come r.Bact.fi:lctivities 
Beach Party 
·Encino Man Rockfest 
Aug. 29 @ Stepan Courts FREE@ Cushing Auditorium LIVE @ Stonehenge WVFI Live remote Dysfunktion Access Denied Giveaways
7p.m., 9:30p.m., 12 a.m. ...
Aug. 27 XY~~:a~~' 4:m~~7i ~:.e Volleyball tourney & m-
We/come Weekend 192 ~ 
STUDENT UNION HOARD 


Sports
page 28 Tuesday,August25, 1992 
- 
...  
I t I ~ t  


DuBose situation remains unresolved 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 

A lot of people are wondering what is going to happen to Demetrius DuBose. 
The only group that can answer that is the NCAA, which is investigating the Irish co­captain on allegations that he accepted a $600 loan from the president of the Western Washington Notre Dame Alumni Club, who allegedly knew DuBose before he was being recruited by Notre Dame. 
The University has declared DuBose ineligible and has forwarded the case to the NCAA. This is a standard procedure which is quite common in college athletics. 
The ineligibility only restricts the senior inside linebacker from playing in games, and he is still practicing with the team. 
A decision is expected from the NCAA sometime this week. The NCAA could find no wrongdoing and immediately reinstate DuBose or find him guilty and suspend him for a certain amount of games or strip him of his eligibility. 
Irish coach Lou Holtz said the team and DuBose are still going about business as usual. 
"We will face the situation when and if a decision is made," Holtz explained. 
If the Irish lose DuBose, junior The Observer/Jake Peters linebacker Pete Bereich will Without Demetrius DuBose, junior Pete Bereich will fill holes in the Irish middle. Bereich, shown here likely replace him in the starting defending against Pitt's Steve Israel, started several games last season. lineup. 
Irish complete two-a-day practices as classes begin 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Holtz explained. counterpart on the left side. Greg Sports Editor Potential offensive starters Ray Griggs Norman and Jordan Halter are the right and Aaron Taylor missed time with ankle and left guards respectively, and Tim 
For most students late August means injuries, while tight end Oscar McBride Ruddy rounds out the line at center. renewing friendships, warm weather, has been troubled by a pulled groin. In the backfield, Rick Mirer will be setting up rooms and no classwork. In With Griggs out, fellow senior Adrian handing the ball off to tailback Reggieall, it is a fun time of year. Jarrell and junior Lake Dawson have Brooks and fullback Jerome Bettis. 
Not so for the Notre Dame football climbed to the top of the depth chart at Behind Brooks are Willie Clark and Lee team, which completed two-a-day receiver. McBride's injury has enabled Becton, both of whom should see practices on Monday as a banged up true freshman Leon Wallace to earn the significant action. bunch. second tight end spot behind lrv Smith, Though the Irish are deep at tailback, 
According to coach Lou Holtz, 14 who, in the words of Holtz, "is having a Bettis is the only experienced fullback on players missed practice time due to fine fall camp." the roster. Backing him up are Dean injuries during what he called the lowest Even without the 294-pound Taylor, Lytle, who is familiar to most as an point of the season. the offensive line is still impressive. outside linebacker, and Ray Zellars, a 
"We got a lot of things done (in two-a­Justin Hall, "the most encouraging sign sophomore who saw only 3:42 of playing days), but a lot of players missed too of fall camp," according to Holtz, is the 
see FOOTBALL! page 17
much time for us to be a solid team," right tackle, while Lindsay Knapp is his 
Berticelli brings Notre Dame to national ranking Men ranked twentieth by Soccer America in preseason standings 
By JASON KELLY 
formidable, but with nine midfield is where most of our Sports Writer starters al)d seventeen letter­depth is," Berticelli said. "We 
men returning, the Irish are had a really good spring and 
more experienced than their the guys have matured into 
Last year, the Notre Dame age shows. fine players. But our men's soccer team proved ·senior captain Mario freshman midfielders could that it could play with the Tricoci leads the list of still see some time." nation's best teams. starters returning from last Most of the freshmen will 
This year, Soccer America year's 13-5-2 team. Also probably see some quality agrees. returning is sophomore playing time this season. 
For the first time ever, the goalkeeper Bert Bader, 1991's For the second straight sea­Irish enter a campaign MCC Newcomer of the Year. son, Berticelli has attracted ranked among the nation's Sophomore Jean Joseph, one of the nation's best group elite. who led the Irish with 11 of freshmen to continue the 
But third-year coach Mike Marlo Trlcocl goals last year, will be the key resurgence of the men's Berticelli doesn't put much to what could be an explosive soccer program. faith in his team's 20th offense. Classmate Tim Oates Lanza, last year's Virginia ranking. The following weekend the is another proven performer Gatorade Player of the Year, 
"I think of it like my math up front and highly-touted is considered the cream of the 
Irish will face another trial by
classes in high school," he freshman Bill Lanza is crop, but each of the seven
fire against perennial powers
said. "I knew I had an A at UCLA and Duke in the Adidas expected to see a lot of time recruits could make an the beginning of the year, but at forward. impact.
Met Life Classic in 
after a few tests I knew Bloomington. In the midfield, the talent is where I really stood. We're almost overflowing. "We're young, but that is
"You have to play the best 
concerned with where we are Sophomores Tont Richardson, the basis of our program right 
schedule possible," Berticelli 
at the end of the season, not said. "Playing good teams is Jason Fox and Ray Prado and now," Berticelli explained. at the beginning." junior Mike Palmer return "Young players offer a lot of
the only way to get better,
His team will face its share and it will show us where we and freshmen Shawn Bryden, positives to the team, they of tests this season, beginning Eric Ferguson, Ben Ketchum have the ability and they are
stand early in the season." 
next Saturday with an exhibi­and Josh Landman will also also very enthusiastic." 
Wi'th a roster full of 
tion game against national freshmen and sophomores, compete for playing time. Irish soccer fans are very powerhouse Indiana at the "All these guys will see a lot enthusiastic about the 1992
those early-season tests 
Golden Boot Classic in of playing time, because the season.
appear even more 
Indianapolis. 


ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Cheap Shots 

Return to NO 
sparks sports 
conversation 
This summer, I fell completely out of touch with the world of sports. And I liked it. 
Living in a small apartment with friends who didn't particularly enjoy the NBA draft or the Olympic Triplecast, I learned to ignore the second-largest chunk of the evening news. 
But now, I'm back at The Observer. I'm back at Notre Dame. I'm back to a place where conversation nearly always turns into debate about Harry Caray's broadcasting talent or reminiscence over the 1984-85 NBA playoffs. 
The presidential race has become the most dynamic and intriguing in our generational memory. And each one of us can be a part of it. But we will probably be paying equal attention to the Lou Holtz teleconference on the first Tuesday in November. 
I'm just as bad as anyone else. I actually had an answer when friends asked me about the DuBose situation last weekend, and I was interested in what they had to say, though 2 million are starving in Somalia. 
Like a vast majority of the American male population, I have always accepted sports, like food, water and warmth, as a necessity of life. 
When SportsCenter is on the tube or the Cubs are on the radio, sports are indeed simple sustenance. But every once in a while, at Fenway Park watching the Red Sox or around a fireplace watching the Super Bowl, they can be a thoroughly enjoyable pastime. 
In any other year, when my beloved Orlando Magic pick a college superstar to fill out their scrawny roster, I do backflips for weeks, reciting the player's high school stats at the top of my lungs, for all to hear. 
This June, the Magic picked up the biggest prize--Shaquille O'Neal. And it was just another day in my life. I fainted, recovered, and kept on driving. I don't even know what Shaquille's parents names are. 
In 1984, when I was 12 and living in Los Angeles, I memorized every medal winner in the history of the Olympic games. The ancient Greek Olympic games. Anaximander won the pentathlon twice. 
But last month, I watched about 46 minutes of Olympic coverage. I saw Carl Lewis win two golds, rekindling my memories of 1984. And I remember that I saw Namibia's Frankie Fredericks win a medal in the 100 meters. 
I am glad that sports are starting to lag in my mindset. Now I can cram my brain with all kinds of new conversa­tional material. But I still have to write this column every week. Maybe next time I will think of a coherent topic. 
INSIDE SPORTS 
•volleyball team readies 

see page 26 
•south Bend wins Hall of Fame 
see page 25 
•Men's cross-country looks decent 
see page 25 







