.r-----------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 57 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
U.N. orders shoot-to-stop sea blockade of Yugoslavia 
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) ­Western European countries armed with new shoot-to-stop orders from the United Nations will set up a sea blockade against Yugoslavia to catch smugglers breaking a trade embargo, a source said Tues­day. 
The United States also intends 
to commit "significant" ships 
and planes to the blockade, 
according to one senior U.S. 
official, but the Europeans are 
likely to provide the majority. 
The United States has two 
surveillance ships monitoring 
air traffic over Bosnia-Herze­
govina, and could commit more 
from the 19-ship Sixth Fleet 
task force in the Mediter­
ranean. 
The developments stem from 
the U.N. Security Council's vote 
Monday to use force to seal 
cracks in its 6-month-old ban 
on almost all international 
trade with Yugoslavia, now 
Smoke-free library proposed 
By KATIE CAPUTO 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Gov­ernance (BOG) will be submit­ting a proposal for a smoke free library to the director of stu­dent activities, George Rosen­bush, and to Sister Bernice Hollenhorst, the director of the Cushwa-Leighton Library on Saint Mary's campus. 
BOG conducted a one day survey asking student's opin­ions on smoking in certain ar­eas on the campus. The reason for the survey was a concern by a member of the Board of Regents, Gloria Ybarra, who proposed to the Student Life Committee the idea of Saint Mary's being a smoke free campus. 
The president of the student body, Tina Carrara, said that if the whole campus did not go smoke free, BOG wants to know what areas on the campus students feel uncomfortable where there is smoking, i.e., the library. 
Although only 27 percent of the student body participated in the survey, 56 percent wanted no smoking in the library's lounge, and 75 percent wanted no smoking on the second floor mezzanine. 
"We felt we had enough stu­dent input to go ahead and make a proposal for the li­brary," said Melissa Whelan, a member of BOG, "but not for residence halls and other places on campus." 
Due to the short notice of the first survey, and its poor repre­sentation of the student body, BOG is planning a second sur­vey to be conducted over a two­day period in both Hagger Col­lege Center and the Dining Hall after Thanksgiving break. The survey will include student's feelings about smoking in other public areas. 
"If there is an overwhelming majority of students that want a non-smoking campus, we will extend the survey to the faculty and administration," said Car­rara. 
BOG is hoping for better stu­dent participation with the extended survey. 
consisting only of Serbia and Montenegro. The council im­posed the embargo to punish Yugoslavia for fomenting war in Bosnia-Herzegovina but it has been widely broken by trucks, and ships on the Danube River and in the Adriatic Sea. 
An official in Brussels said the nine-nation Western European Union will announce in Rome on Friday that its warships in the Adriatic will impose the blockade. 
The 16-nation North Atlantic Treaty Organization began consultations about participat­ing in the blockade, said an al­liance official, also demanding anonymity. 
Each of the security groups has five frigates in the Adriatic but until Monday's Security Council resolution, had been authorized only to monitor, not board, ships. Diplomats at the United Nations said that West­ern warships on the Adriatic could now intercept suspected smuggling ships, order them to stop for inspection, and, if nec­essary, fire a shot across the bow to warn them to halt. 

Alexander Watson, the United States' No. 2 diplomat at the United Nations, vowed that "If these measures for the mar­itime embargo and the efforts on the Danube River do not work, we'll be right back in here looking for a resolution to ban all transshipments" of goods by highway across Serbia and Montenegro to other countries. 
The resolution adopted Mon­day does not ban all transship­ping, only that of crude oil, petroleum products, coal, en­ergy-related equipment, iron, 
. steel, other metals, chemicals, rubber, tires, vehicles, aircraft and motors. Greece has been particularly reliant on transshipments be­cause Serbia and Montenegro 

Record enrollment recorded 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame enrolled a 
record 10,126 students for the 1992 fall semester, in­cluding a record number of women, according to the of­. fice ofinstitutional research's 
annual enrollment report. 
In its 20th year of coeduca· 
tion, the University set new 
records for number of 
women in the undergraduate 
student body {2,938, or 39 
percent of the body) and in 
the freshman class (823, or 
44 percent ofthe class). 
The freshman class of 

1,879 students equals the 
Notre Dame record set last 
year. 
The University enrolled 
see RECORD I page 4 

lie between it and Western Eu­rope. 
Until the resolution passed, other countries could send any goods through Yugoslavia by simply marking them "transit." No inspections were conducted and smuggling of everything from gasoline to cigarettes was rampant. 
The United Nations is now developing plans to post U.N. border guards at frontier sites in Bosnia-Herzegovina; and t11e threat by Watson raises the possibility of ringing Yugoslavia on its other borders with Bul­garia, Albania, Greece, Roma­nia, Hungary and Italy. 
Bulgaria and Romania will be key players in enforcing the sanctions, as they share the Danube River with Yugoslavia. However, neither country has much money or equipment to monitor and intercept Danube River traffic. 
see U.N. I page 4 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

U.S. uncertain on blockade enforcement 
WASHINGTON (AP) -U.S. officials will consult with NATO allies in Brussels on Wednes­day in an effort to determine how to enforce a United Nations naval blockade against Yugoslavia, the Pentagon said Tuesday. 
Spokesman Pete Williams said he could not predict what type of operation might be mounted, though it might be patterned after the one still being conducted in the Persian Gulf to enforce U.N. sanctions against Iraq. 
In any case, he said, the United States will not move unilaterally to enforce the blockade, authorized by the 
U.N. Security Council on Mon­day, of the Danube River and the Adriatic coast to tighten the economic sanctions against Serbian-led Yugoslavia. 
The resolution prods Bul­garia and Romania to patrol the Danube, which flows along their borders. But it wasn't immediately clear to what ex­tent Western or other govern­ments were willing to get in­volved in enforcement of the sanctions. 
Trade sanctions were first leveled against Yugoslavia in May, but arms and petroleum supplies that have fueled the fighting among the warring republics have continued to enter Serbia and Montenegro. 
"Anything that we do would probably be in an alliance con­text," Williams said. 
Though the matter will be discussed at the NATO meeting in Brussels, Williams said, the operation will not necessarily fall under the NATO umbrella. 
NATO and the European Community's Western Euro­pean Union both have con­
see U.S. I page 4 


Ned & Ted's Excellent Adventures 
Newscaster Heather Richardson from WNDU interviews Father Hesburgh and Father Joyce. The two men have recently released their book "Travels With Ted & Ned," and were signing copies last night at the Little Professor Book Center in South Bend. 


City denies rezoning for Bruno's Pizza 
By JULIE BARRETT Assistant News Editor 
In a 5-4 vote, the South Bend City Council denied Bruno's Pizza a rezoning permit on the grounds that owner Bruno Cataldi has not been a good neighbor and has broken sev­eral property code violations, said Steve Luecke, first district city council representative. 
Bruno's currently exists as a "legal nonconforming use" in a residential zone, but can oper­ate its business at the current location because a business had operated there before Catladi bought the property, Luecke said. 
Bruno's wants to be rezoned as a commercial zone to be able to make several changes to its business and its surrounding property not permitted in a residential zone. 
"As a commercial zone, Bruno's could enhance its property by putting up private fences, install draining and enlarge the parking lot," said Ken Fedder, Cataldi's lawyer in the case. "By prohibiting Bruno's from rezoning, the council is preventing the restaurant from upgrading the very things the neighbors want done." 
The code violations and neighbors' complaints against Bruno's include: 
•failing 
to maintain the ap­pearance of his restaurant on the outside; 

•leaving 
junk and debris in his backyard, including an old car; 

•neglecting 
to empty his dumpster so that it overflowed onto his neighbor's yard; and 

•showing 
disrespect for neighbors when confronted with their complaints. 


Three months before the re­zoning decision, Bruno's started to clean up its property, according to Don Fozo, Building Commissioner for St. Joseph County and South Bend. 
However, neighbors felt Bruno's shouldn't be rewarded with a rezoning permit until 
see BRUNO'S I page 4 

Linebacker's proposes relocation 
By SARAH DORAN News Writer 
The Linebacker Lounge has proposed relocation onto a nearby residential street due to a highway widening project that will wipe out the tract of land that it is presently situated on, according to Scott Kugler a staff planner for the Area Plan Commission which deals with rezoning. 
The Linebacker is currently on the corner of Edison Road and Indiana 23 and the Indiana Department of Transportation plans to widen the intersection of these streets into five lanes from its present two, eliminat­ing the lounge's property. 
Elwanda Neidlinger, owner of the Linebacker, is attempting to 
see BACKER I page 4 


page 2 The Observer Wednesday, November 18,1992 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Down on their 



luck, but don't count them out 
Imagine your residence hall burned down. You're homeless. Imagine you have to leave the University for financial reasons and 

your parents refuse to  John Rock  
take you back in-you're  Managing Editor  
homeless.  Imagine  

you've been working one job for twenty years, have three children, bills and a pink slip in your next check-you could end up homeless. 
Homelessness is a real problem and it is not because of laziness or apathy on the part of the homeless person. 
In case you haven't noticed the signs hanging in the dorms or the extra page in the Viewpoint section of The Observer. it is ND for the Homeless Week. 
Although many would say that all Domers care about is football and running a Fortune 500 company upon graduation, events such as these prove otherwise. 
Notre Dame has a good record on its students getting involved, or at least being aware of the problem of homeless in this country. 
That the South Bend Center for the Homeless is a fantastic operation definitely helps to heighten our awareness. The opportunity to volunteer there both gives students a chance to help, albeit in a small way, but more importantly through interaction we see that these people are people-just down on their luck, let down by the greater part of the society that has seen us do so well. 
Unfortunately, the homeless have been stereotyped as dirty, crazy and drunk. This is not the case though, and fighting the stereotype can be one of the hardest battles to overcome. 
We all have had interaction with the homeless, on the streets of a big city-people asking for a handout; the people carrying their lives in a shopping cart. In the "Fisher King," a homeless person describes himself as a "moral traffic light" that keeps the rest of the world in line. 
The bottom line to our role in the problem o homelessness is that these people are our brothers and sisters and we cannot turn a dea ear. Would we not pray for Christian charity i we were down on our luck? 
There will be poor always but we've got to use the things we have to help alleviate their plight. Catholics can boast a great record of service through people like Dorthy Day, Mother Theresa and Father Damien-although sucl! an attitude is completely contrary to the spirit of humility that allows these kinds of people to spend their lives as servants 
To put ourselves more in the understanding o what the homeless must go through, Student Government is holding a sleep-out at Stepan Center on Thursday night. 
Maybe a better understanding of the conditions that some homeless sleep in can help us relate better. 
You never know who the homeless person was or who they will become, and we never seem to remember to ask ourselves "What happened to that nice lady who used to live next door?" 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 
News
Production 

Frank Rivera 
Peggy Crooks 

Kenya Johnson 
Bryan Nowicki 

Accent
Sports 

Julie Wilkens 
George Dohrmann 

Mary Schultze 
Systems 

John LoGuidice
Harry Zembillas 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Prsssure 
H L ~~[IT]~~~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
CALTANISSErT~ Sicily-Police nabbed more than 100 Mafia suspects today in the mountainous interior of Sicily and on the mainland in one of Italy's largest sweeps against organized crime. Italian news agencies reported two Parliamentary deputies were among those under investigation for suspected crime ties. The sweep began in the early hours and lasted through the morning as hundreds of police cars, their sirens racing, raced through streets to pick up suspects. Among the suspected criminal activity in the sweep was extortion and drug trafficking. 
NATION 
Journalists less satisfied with jobs 
ARLINGTON, Va.-American journalists are less satisfied with their jobs than they were 10 years ago and more of them hope to leave the profession, according to an organization that studies the news media. Only 27 percent of journalists surveyed in the study released Tuesday said they were very satisfied with their jobs, compared to 40 percent 10 years ago and 49 percent in 1971. The median income of full-time journalists increased from $19,000 in 1981 to $31,297 last year, the researchers said, adding that this is "less than income estimates for other somewhat comparable occupational groups, such as internal auditors and accountants." 
OF INTEREST 
•"Finding 
a Real Job (or Internship) in the Peace and Justice Area," a presentation by George Lopez, acting Re­gan director of the Kroc Institute, will be at 4:15 p.m. in room C-102 of the Hesburgh Center. 

•"Talking 
With," A Saint Mary's Communication, Dance and Theatre presentation, will be at 7:30 p.m. at Dalloway's Coffee House. For information call, 284-4640. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY•s TRADING November 17 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 216,318,820 -0.69 to 231.09 

S&P COMPOSITE -1.79 to 419.27 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -12.42 to 3,223.31 
GOLD +50.40 to $334.40 oz 
SILVER +5.006 to $3.758 oz 
MAMI -Mayor Xavier Suarez agreed Tuesday that some past treatment of the city's homeless had been inhumane, but said he would appeal a judge's order creating two havens for them. The mayor said the judge's order is too broad. "We cannot allow indiscriminate panhandling," he said. U.S. District Judge C. Clyde Atkins temporarily barred the city from arresting homeless people for sleeping, eating or bathing in part of downtown Miami's Bicentennial Park and underneath an Interstate 395 overpass where several of the city's 6,000 homeless people have been living. In his ruling Monday, Atkins gave the city and the American Civil Liberties Union 30 days to work out creation of two "safe zones" where homeless people can stay "without being arrested for harmless conduct." 
CAMPUS Corbaci rewarded for services 
NOTRE DAME, lnd.-Leo Corbaci, associate professor emeritus of economics at Notre Dame, has received the 1992 John Cardinal O'Hara Award from the University's Alumni Association. The award, annually given for outstanding service to the University, recognizes Corbaci's 42-year-long career as a Notre Dame faculty member and administrator. Corbaci, who received a master's degree in economics from Notre Dame, joined the University's faculty in 1951 as an instructor of economics. Before retiring in 1985, he served as administrative assistant to the vice president for academic affairs, University registrar, assistant vice president for academic affairs, assistant provost, and dean of administration. 

•CSC 
Mexico Project is holding an informational meeting tonight from 7:00 to 8:00p.m. at the esc. 

•Student 
government is conducting a survey to gauge students' opinions on a variety of campus issues. Students with thoughts should call Kara Christopherson at 239-7668. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1928: The first sound-synchronized animated cartoon, Walt Disney's "Steamboat Willie," starring Mickey Mouse, premiered at the Colony Theater in New York. 

• 
In 1978: California Congressman Leo Ryan and tour other people were killed in Jonestown, Guyana, by members of the Peoples Temple. The killings were followed by a night of mass murder and suicide by 912 cult members. 

• 
In 1987: The congressional Iran-Contra committees issued their final report, saying President Ronald Reagan bore "ultimate responsibility" for wrongdoing by his aides. 

• 
In 1991: Shiite Muslim kidnappers in Lebanon freed Anglican Church envoy Terry Waite and Thomas Sutherland, the American dean of agriculture at the American University of Beirut. 


FORECAST 
Mostly cloudy and cool today with highs in the mid-40s. Light chance of rain at night. Cool tomorrow with a 50 percent chance of rain. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  l  
Anchorage  31  28  
Atlanta  64  35  
Bogota  64  50  
Cairo  77  63  
Chicago  43  32  
Cleveland  50  39  
Dallas  70  56  
Detroit  42  39  
Indianapolis  60  50  
Jerusalem  63  48  
London  46  39  
Los Angeles  72  58  
Madrid  64  45  
Minneapolis  35  28  
Moscow  32  28  
Nashville  67  43  
New York  53  37  
Paris  46  37  
Philadelphia  54  37  
Rome  68  46  
Seattle  52  46  
South Bend  48  40  
Tokyo  59  54  
Washington, D.C.  59  36  


Wednesday, November 18, 1992 The Observer 
page 3 

Speakers: Religious beliefs Sc webel: World Court ga1n1ng paramount in Malcolm X's life influence in international affairs 
By ALLISON CONNOLLY News Writer 
Islam and the Qur'an were paramount in Malcolm X's life and directed his his political ac­tions and ideologies, according to Anthony Salaam and Bilal Shabazz. 
Salaam, resident Imam at the Islamic Dawah Center in South Bend, and Shabazz, an IUSB radiology student and convert to the religion of Islam, spoke on Malcolm and the Nation of Islam in the lecture, "Malcolm 
X: From the Nation of Islam to Islam." 
Both lecturers emphasized the importance of religion in Malcolm's life and his great de­pendence on his faith and the Qur'an changing Malcolm Lit­tle, criminal and drug addict, into Malcolm X, Islamic leader and scholar. 
The presentation began with a partial showing of the docu­mentary "Eyes on the Prize II: America at the Racial Cross­roads," that included a cursory biography and footage of Mal­colm X, the African-American activist who was assassinated in 1964. 
Salaam and Shabazz stressed the lack of hatred present in 


I 
Full & Part-time Schedules 
1Degreed Teachers 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: 

234-2747 
At Madison Center on the Race 403 E. Madison St. South Bend, IN 46617 
Malcolm's doctrines. 
"While he was denounced as a hater, he hated racism, tyranny, degradation and the wasting of human resources," Shabazz said. "He never advo­cated violence unless it was a necessity for defense." 
Malcolm was viewed as a radical because he pointed out the discontent of one people and the apathy of another, ac­cording to the speakers. 
They discussed the nature of the religion of Islam at length and its importance in the life of Malcolm X, his long-term in­volvement with the Nation ofls­lam and his subsequent rejec­tion of the Nation. 
Malcolm was highly influ­enced by Elijah Mohammed, the dynamic leader of the Na­tion of Islam. He foresaw the problems that the break be­tween himself and the Nation would cause, including the bombing of his home and sev­eral attempted assassinations. 
The speakers also discussed director Spike Lee's new movie, "Malcolm X," that is scheduled to be released tomorrow. The movie is based on the book "The Autobiography of Malcolm X," which was written by Malcolm and Alex Haley. 
However, they stressed that the movie is, as Lee stated, his own vision of Malcolm, and should not be viewed as the fi­nal word on his life or on Islam. A highly positive outcome of the film, Shabazz said, is that "it is causing people from all races, all backgrounds, to come to­gether to view a man in the pursuit of human excellence." 

Betty Shabazz, Malcolm's wife, and his daughters were documented to have been quite pleased with the accuracy of the movie, according to Shabazz. 
The lecture was sponsored by the Muslim Students' Associa­tion. 
By JASON WILLIAMS News Writer 
The World Court is gaining an influence in international affairs although states are only required to adhere to the Court's decisions on a voluntary basis, according to World Court Judge Stephen Schwebel. 
However, verdicts issued by the court are influential in the global political system, he said, in his lecture on the policies and procedures of the Interna­tional Court of Justice yesterday at the Notre Dame Law School. 
"Only states can issue claims against other states," he said. "The court has no measures to enforce judgements, but the arraigning party can send re­course to the Security Council to take appropriate measures." 
Schwebel said a country does have the right to withdraw from a case, but the conse­quences of avoiding judgement may be more detrimental than following through with the World Court's decisions. 
"No adverse consequences will occur if a state withdraws from a case," he said, "but it can be politically upsetting to a state if it is not present to argue its case with the entire General Assembly paying attention to the outcome." 
With the eyes of the world becoming more focused on the decisions of the court, Schwebel said the nature of the court's cases continues to become more diversified. 
"The first World Court cer­tainly did not intrude on the conscience of everyday events," Schwebel said. "Within the last ten years, the court has undergone a marked revival, but the reason's for this are unclear." 
Schwebel sighted the number of cases the court presides over as one potential reason for the increased influence. 
"You can witness the increas­
ing case-load by simply recit­
ing the docket of the court this 
year," he said. "Today the court 
hears cases involving every 
continent of the world." 
Schwebel also said the finality of the World Court's decisions has made it a more important actor in international decision making. 
"There is no appeals process in the World Court," he said. "Judgements are final with no appeal-although states can apply for a review of judgement if obvious circumstances come about that will change the court's opinion. However, that rarely happens." 
Opinions of the court are based on the views of the 15 justices, who are each of differ­ent nationalities. It looks at all cases presented to it without review of previous, precedent setting decisions. 
"The court confines itself to relying on itself," Schwebel said. "Occasionally we'll rely on other international systems, but the statute of the court provides that the court's judgement on a particular case must be based on that case alone." 
As one of the 15 members of the court, Schwebel has been reelected to his second 9-year term by the United Nations General Assembly and Security Council. Prior to his election to the World Court, he was a pro­fessor of law at Johns Hopkins University. 

The Notre Dame Law School's Center for Civil and Human Rights sponsored Schwebel's lecture through a grant from the Ford ·Foundation to the American Society of Interna­tional Law. 
Campus Ministry addresses HPC 
By BEVIN KOVALIK News Writer 
Campus Ministry informed the Hall Presidents' Council (HPC)





Happy 
of a project next semester to invite undergraduate students of Notre Dame to join together in small organized groups to


Birthday 
discuss matters of Christian faith and personal maturity, according to Father Tom McDermott, director of special 


Chinku! 

projects in Campus Ministry. 
The intention of this project is for underclassmen to form small communities consisting of ten students in which students can explore faith questions of adult Christianity by engaging in honest conversation in a relaxed way, he said. 
Campus Ministry will offer suggested topics for group dis­cussion, he said, and will offer support to help each group build a foundation upon trust. During the Spring semester of 1993, the groups will have a series of six meetings and the members may decide if they wish to continue next year, he added. 
This invitation is open to all underclassmen because "our goal is to throw the net out widely and let people in," Mc­Dermott said. 
see HPC I page 4 


Wed.-Fri., Nov. lS-20, 8p.m., Dalloway's Coffeehouse Saturday, Nov. 21, 8 p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium 
THE

TPlU\1 NG WITi{_... 
INK 
by Jane Martin 

SPOTS 
A John M. Duggan Event Directed by Katie Sullivan 
Tickets $12/$10/$5. A Saint Mary's Communication, Dance &Theatre 
Limited number of complimentary tickets production. Tickets $1--<>n sale at the door only 
available to Saint Mary's students 

COMING ATTRACTIONS ...Eighth annual High School Women's Choir Festival, Thurs.-Fri., Nov 19-20, O'Laughlin, day-long, admission free ...20th annual Madrigal Dinners, Dec. 4-6, $22.50 ...Frances McMahon­Julie Tourtillotte fiber exhibit, Moreau Galleries, opening Dec. 4, admission free ... more events to follow... 

Tickets for events on sale at the Saint Mary· s . f!t:--­box office. located In O'Laughlin Auditorium. Samt Mary's Colle~ Information and charge card orders: 219/284-4626. 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 



The Observer 
is searching for students who have experience working with Aldus Freehand, Adobe Illustrator, or QuarkXpress to work in the Ad Design Department. Please contact Kevin Hardman at 239-7471 if interested. 
page 4 

The Observer Wednesday, November 18, 1992 
decision could be reversed," he 
(our) enemies to continue fight­said.
Backer Bruno's U.N. 
ing."

Luecke voted against the re­continued from page 1 continued from page 1 zoning primarily based on land 
In the meantime, though, a
continued from page 1 

rezone a residential piece of use operation.
Cataldi could show he would lull in fighting thanks to a 6­
land on the corner of Indiana A senior U.S. official said U.S.
continue to be a good neighbor day-old truce in the Bosnian 
23 and Garland Street so that ''I'm against commercial spot surveillance ships in the Adri­
and keep his property in good capital of Sarajevo allowed 
an existing two story single zoning in the area because it atic will help Bulgaria and Ro­
condition, Luecke said. U.N. engineers Tuesday to 
family home can be converted would attract commercial busi­mania pinpoint suspicious ships 
"If he can be a good neighbor restore water and electricity.
into a new bar with the down­nesses," he said. "I'm not sure on the Danube. 
and keep his property looking Cmdr. Barry Frewer of 
stairs functioning as the tavern that's such a good idea because In Yugoslavia on Tuesday,
nice and clean for a year, the Canada, spokesman for U.N. 
and the upstairs as offices. it's a mostly residential area." Serbs protested the new effort peacekeepers, said intense ar­
The proposal was reviewed to enforce sanctions. Milan 
tillery fire on Monday had cut yesterday afternoon during a 576 in the Law School and 470 Panic, the moderate premier of 
electricity and water, but 
public hearing of the the Area Record are in the College of Business Serb-dominated Yugoslavia added, "We hope it was just an Plan Commission, according to Administration. Sixteen stu­who has been trying to get isolated incident." 
sanctions lifted, told farmersKugler. The commission will continued from page 1 dents are working on dual-de­
make a recommendation to the the U.N. vote would not have its 
gree programs. U.N. workers also were in­
7,610 undergraduate students. desired effect. 
City Council, who will then hold 
This year's enrollment in­specting a possible new route
Of the four undergraduate
another public hearing before cludes students from all 50 for relief convoys, the highway
making the final decision to re­colleges, the College of Arts "Sanctions cannot topple the linking Sarajevo to the south­
states. Illinois has the largest
zone. and Letters has the largest regime -their effects are felt western city of Mostar. 
contingent at Notre Dame with most by innocent people andKugler said that he was ex­enrollment with 2,246. The 
Meanwhile, Larry
pecting a lot of reaction from College of Business 783 students, followed by Indi­not by the politicians they are Hollingsworth of the U.N. Highneighbors, whom the rezoning Administration was second ana (747), Ohio (591), New targeted against," he said, ac­
Commissioner for RefugeesYork (570) and Pennsylvania cording to the Tanjug news
proposal has angered. There with 1,485 students, followed said 500 tons of garbage were
(508). agency.
are eight homes on Garland 
by the College of Science with collected in Sarajevo on Mon­
Street and it ends just one Roman Catholics make up 86 Tanjug quoted Radovan
1,001 students and the College day, the first day of a U.N.-as­
block south of Indiana 23. percent of the University's un­Karadzic, the leader of Bosnia's sisted clean-up campaign timed 
of Engineering with 956. "I'm very opposed to it," said dergraduate student body. Serbs, as saying the effort to take advantage of the truce.
Notre Dame enrolled 2,516
Patricia Davis, whose home is "continues to exert pressure
Notre Dame's previous en­Garbage had gone uncollected
postbaccalaureate students. Of against only one side -the
two doors from the proposed rollment record of 10,085 was for months because truckthese students, 1,486 are en­
location. "We have small chil­Serbs -and will encourage
set in 1991. drivers feared snipers. 
rolled in the Graduate School,
dren and elderly in the area and a street with no access. organizations by providing
the Adriatic, conducting
They plan to put an exit from butcher block posters and cus­
HPC

surveillance and search and
the bar on our street and I tom made buttons, according to


u.s. 

rescue operations for the hu­
know there will be people driv­continued from page 3 Katie Pameter, Student Activi­
manitarian relief flights into
ing on our street under the in­continued from page 1 ties Office. 
Sarajevo. The main motivation for thisfluence." tributed warships to the sanc­project is successful senior re­
Davis is also concerned tion-monitoring operation along The Stepan managers will
Defense Secretary Dick Ch­treats we have sponsored in the 
about the crowd that gathers the Adriatic coast, but the ships make the posters and buttons 
eney and Gen. Colin Powell, the past where people have had the
outside of the bar during the were not authorized to inspect for the organizations if students 
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of opportunity to have conver­
weekends. vessels. provide a design, or students
Staff, have staunchly opposed sations of trust and importance
"Once people are on the can make these items them­
putting U.S. forces on the in a reliable group setting, he
sidewalk, they can come in our The United States has one selves, she said. 
ground in Yugoslavia. said.
neighborhood and wander ship -the guided missile 
Students can sign up at the
around," she said. "We just frigate USS Halyburton -on "This is an ideal way for
Rep. Frank McCloskey, D­Office of Campus Ministry from 
don't feel safe." station in the Adriatic as part of groups to advertise an event or
Ind., just returned from a five­Nov. 30 until Dec. 17.
There are two pieces of land the NATO force, Williams said. for dorms to decorate for
day tour of Croatia and Mace­
nearby that are zoned for SYRs," she said. 
donia, called Tuesday for selec­In other business, the newly
commercial use, Parisi's As well, the amphibious as­This option is available to ev­
tive air strikes against Serb established Stepan Center Sign
Restaurant and Sears, but are sault ship USS Guam and the eryone on campus and is a
forces if they continue their Shop offers advertising services 
surrounded by residentially cruiser USS Wainwright are in "cheap, efficient and great way
siege of Bosnia-Herzegovina. for student groups and
used properties. to advertise," she added. 

Wednesday, November 18, 1992 
Panel: Clinton needs immediate establishment of office priorities 
By SHANNON DEVERNA News Writer 
President-elect Clinton needs to establish his priorities im­mediately, or he will get nothing done, two government pro­fessors said in a panel discus­sion Tuesday. 
The discussion, "The Elec­tion's Over, It's Time To Gov­ern," was given by Peri Arnold and John Roos from the Gov­ernment Department and Frank Bonello from James Rakowski from the Economics Department. The professors fo­cused on the advice they would give Clinton for a successful four years. 
Arnold, whose specialty is the study of the presidency, advised Clinton to "behave more like Reagan than Carter" if he wanted to avoid the mistakes Carter made during his presi­dency. 
Arnold stressed the impor­tance of setting priorities and a few specific goals as opposed to many goals. For example, he said, Carter set out to do many things and got none accom­plished while Reagan had only a few things on his agenda but accomplished everything. 
Arnold thinks Clinton should decide what he needs to do right away, since it "takes a while to know what you want to do, but you only have about six months to do it." 
Roos, who specializes in stud­ies of Congress, agreed with Arnold's opinion of the impor­tance of a specific agenda. He also said that a Democratic Congress runs the danger of passing whatever Clinton pro­poses and "they'll become a runaway Congress." Clinton must foresee this and establish his priorities, Roos said. 
Bonello focused on the mone­tary policy of Clinton. Since Clinton was elected on a basis of economic referendum, he said, he must work to reduce the deficit and stimulate the economy. 
This can be done, Bonello said, by working to reduce the unemployment rate, increasing public works spending, increas­ing exports, and delaying his approval a tax cut for the mid­dle class. 
Rabowski saw the conflicting promises Clinton has made during the campaign as a po­tential problem. Despite his promises, Clinton needs to "restore macro economic policy to the right place" and realize that efficiency and productivity are more important issues than creating new jobs, according to Rabowski. "A good job is a productive job," he said. 
The Observer page 5 

The Observer/Brian McDonough 

Good Vibrations 
The Saint Mary's/Notre Dame Collegiate Choir presented the Fall Choral Concert in the Little Theater at Saint Mary's last night. The group, conducted by Nancy Menic, is shown performing Dan Locklair's "December Cats." 

Vietnamese aid Senate MIA committee 
Detective work leads to arrest 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -A Keith Blackburn, 18, admitted woman who was shot in the Monday that he shot Mistry face as she talked on a pay Wright, 18, on Oct. 18, police phone became a detective to said. help police find a suspect. 
Authorities said Wright spot­
..---~---------, ted the suspect's car while visit­ing a relative's home, copied
Gladieux 

the license plate number and
TRAVEL 

gave it to investigators. Police 
then determined the identity of
Top Ground Gainer of "68 
Has Gone To The Air 

the suspect and arrested him 
234-6636 

Monday.
Bob Gladieux 
lmcma1mnal Specialist 

Ill 
:z: 
t-
HANOI, Vietnam (AP) -in 1967. Three U.S. senators on Tuesday The visit comes amid rising were given fading photographs, optimism that the United States flight suits and other sad relics may lift a trade embargo and of American servicemen diplomatic freeze it has main­missing from a war that ended tained towards Vietnam since two decades ago but left the Communist regime in Hanoi wounds on both sides. took over U.S.-backed South 
On what he termed "an ex­Vietnam in 1975. traordinary day," Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass. and Sens. Tom U.S. policy has been that rela­Daschle, D-S.D., and Hank tions with Hanoi will not be Brown, R-Colo., became the normalized until Vietnam offers first American officials to tour a full accounting of the 2,265 the Citadel, Hanoi's equivalent American servicemen missing of the Pentagon. in the Vietnam War, including 
Vietnamese officials also gave 1,657 in Vietnam. the members of the Senate Se­"My hope is that the President lect Committee on POW-MIA will receive the information Affairs military logs of downed that we bring back, and that 
U.S. aircraft, a U.S. Army sur­when we meet with him, he will vival manual and a flight hel­listen carefully to the met said to have belonged to arguments for why there ought Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., a to be a U.S. response of some Navy flier who was shot down kind at this point in time," over Hanoi and taken prisoner Kerry said. "You cannot make 
this a one-way street forever." 
Vietnam's leaders, eager to mend ties, recently have handed over thousands of pho­tographs of Americans taken during the war and are provid­ing access to archives, prisons and military bases. 
Daschle raised the possibility of reciprocating by providing information about Vietnam's MIAs, thought to number about 300,000. 
The two sides must "resolve to bring people together and end the pain and uncertainty relating to our past conflict," he said. 
The senators on Tuesday vis­ited Hanoi's Central Military Museum, the government's main depository for items per­taining to the American MIAs. 
Museum director Col. Pham Due Dai said he had two nephews considered missing in action. 
In the museum's main hall, Dai also described how he was in a unit that ambushed four Americans in 1967 and dumped their bodies in a river. He then gave his tiny handwritten diary to the senators to copy. 
"It's a very sad moment for us to hear about the soldiers being killed," said Kerry. The senators proposed that the Vietnamese gather such valu­able oral history systematically. 
Dai also gave Kerry, the committee chairman, three large albums of fading pictures of dead and captured U.S. ser­vicemen and originals or pho­tographs of various types of identification carried by Ameri­can soldiers. 
In one album was a snapshot, evidently of a soldier's wife and children. 


COMMUNICATION



Thursday Night 
&THEATRE P R E S E N T S 
Alumni~Senior Club 
theatre
presents 

The Place to be for the Class of '93 
9~2 

PROCEEDS BENEFIT THE HOMELESS SHELTER 111USt be 21 

1992·93 SEASON ~ 
NOTRE DAME 
, a
1
~. 


jV-' 
RESERVED SEATS: $7 STUDEKT &SENIOR CITIZEN DISCOCNTS ARE AVAILABLE WED.. THL"RS. AND SL"N. TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE A1 THE LA FORTt:NE TICKET OFFICE. MasterCard and Visa orders call: 239·8128 
wed  nov 18  8:10pm  
thurs  nov 19  8:10pm  
fri  nov 20  8:10pm  
sat  nov 21  8:10pm  
sun  nov 22  3:10pm  


page 6 The Observer Wednesday, November 18, 1992 

ADEN, Yemen (AP) -Relief workers hastily prepared a camp Tuesday for the arrival of thousands of desperate Somali refugees who fled their war­torn homeland in a ship provi­sioned with almost no food or water. 
The 2,500 refugees on the Samaa-1, owned by a Dubai­based company, were given water and food at the remote Yemeni port of Mukalla before setting off for Aden, where the United Nations maintains refugee facilities. 
After a week-long ordeal at sea, the refugee ship limped into Mukalla late Monday and immediately received emer­gency provisions, medical help and fuel. There were conflicting reports about whether any of the refugees had died. 
Another 10 tons of water and 4,700 ready-to-eat meals were transferred aboard the 1,600­ton cargo ship Tuesday from the French warship Comman­dant Ducuing. 
The French navy said the Commandant Ducuing then headed to Djibouti while the Samaa-1 sailed for Aden, 300 miles southwest of Mukalla. 
Rear Adm. Hubert Foillard, commander of the French naval force in the Indian Ocean, was monitoring the Samaa-1 from the flagship Var, on a port call at Abu Dhabi. He told reporters the Samaa-1 was expected to reach Aden late Wednesday or early Thursday. 
Foillard quoted the captain of the Samaa-1 as saying no pas­sengers died, but two had un­specified injuries. 
Earlier, sources in Yemen, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said as many as 100 people may have died, while the ship's owners said 10 or 11 children had died. 
The refugees, including 400 children, began their 1,200­mile journey last Wednesday from Merka, south of Mo­gadishu. 
Relief workers in Aden rushed to set up shelters for the approaching refugees. By nightfall, they had erected 150 tents, each of which can ac­commodate up to six people. 
Security and health officials as well as representatives of the United Nations High Com­missioner for Refugees were on hand to receive the Somalis. 
Carlos Zaccagnini, a U.N. refugee official in Aden, said the Somalis would have to be examined for disease. 
Toufiq Ouanes, another U.N. official, said arrangements were being made for the refugees to disembark imme­diately and for trucks to take them around the harbor to a makeshift camp at Haswa beach. From there they would be taken inland to U.N.-run refugee tent cities. 
Nixon wins compensation for papers and tapes 
WASHINGTON (AP) Richard Nixon must be com­pensated for the government's seizure of his historically valu­able presidential papers and tapes, including all the Water­gate recordings, a federal ap­pellate court ruled Tuesday. 
A three-judge U.S. Court of Appeals panel unanimously ordered a U.S. district court to 
"' determine the compensation, which could be enormous given the potential value of the mate­rial. "Upon reviewing the long and unbroken history relating to the use, control and disposition of presidential papers, we are convinced that Nixon had a well-grounded expectation of ownership," the court said. "In the light of this history, we hold that Nixon, like every president before him, had a compensable property interest in his presidential papers." While there is no way to pre­dict the district court's valua­tion, experts on Nixon papers sold at auction said the docu­ments -mostly typed letters ­were eagerly sought by in­vestors. Kenneth Rendell, who runs auction galleries in New York City and Beverly Hills, Calif., said "Nixon has been amazingly popular. General prices range, for a fairly routine typed letter, from $500 to $5,000." A letter on Vietnam fetched the $5,000, Rendell said. A mimeographed press release about Nixon's "Checkers" speech -when he defended himself against allegations of financial wrongdoing as a vice presidential candidate -sold for $2,750. It was signed by Nixon. Selby Kiffer, a vice president in Sotheby's books and manuscripts department, said ordinary, typed Nixon letters have sold from $150 to $400 from 1988-91. "The two great criteria that collectors judge letters on are condition and content," he said. "A letter that could be related 
CRUISE JOBS . 
Students Needed! Bam$2..000+/month worldngforcruiae&hipaor lour companies. Holiday, Summer, ond Full­Time employment available. For your "11./'93 employment program call: 
CnriM Employment Senrlcn 
(206) 634-0468 ExL C 55M 


Richard Nixon 

to the Watergate affair or a visit to China would be worth more than declining an invitation to dinner." 
Justice Department officials did not reply to a telephone call asking whether an appeal was planned. 
The case centered on the "takings clause" of the Fifth Amendment, which prohibits the seizure of private property for public use without paying the former owner just compen­sation. 
The papers include corre­
spondence, political reports, telephone logs, drafts of speeches and the recordings made on the White House recording system. The discov­ery of the Watergate recordings involving Nixon and his aides revealed the presidential coverup of the burglary and lfd to Nixon's resignation in 1974. 
The voice-activated system recorded conversations in sev­eral White House locations, nearby offices and Camp David. 
In 197 4, Congress, concerned that Nixon would destroy documents necessary for the Watergate investigation, passed the Presidential Records and Materials Preservation Act. 
The law authorized the gov­ernment to retain possession of all Nixon's documents and tapes and gave him a limited role in controlling access to the materials. 
The Supreme Court upheld the law, rejecting Nixon's chal­lenge. But the former president also challenged the taking of his property without just com­pensation. 
° COUNSELINE 
is a confidential telephone service that offers material covering a variety of student 

DIAL 239-7793 MONDAY ·THURSDAY 
Study: College graduates more likely to repay loans 
'WASHINGTON (AP) -Stu­dents who graduate from col­lege are much more likely to repay their college loans than those who drop out, a study suggests. 
Graduation lowers the probability of default by 10 percentage points, said one of the authors, Terry Seaks, an economics professor at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro. 
"Graduation was enormously important,·• Seaks said. "Anything colleges and uni­versities can do to increase their retention rates and grad­uation rates will position these students to have the resources to repay those loans." 
The research, outlined in lat­est issue of the Review of Eco­nomics and Statistics, says the Education Department may be taking the wrong approach in penalizing individual colleges that have high default rates. 
Colleges could help lower de­fault rates by putting more en­ergy into retaining students, counseling and tutoring them, the study said. They also could better provide students with information on deferments and programs that allow them to delay repayment. 
President-elect Clinton pro­poses to replace the current student loan program with a trust fund guaranteeing loans regardless of income and allowing them to be repaid with payroll deductions or public service. 
The study was based on the records of 1,834 students from two-and four-year colleges and universities in Pennsylvania who borrowed from the Stafford Student Loan Pro­gram. It found 175 students had defaulted on their loans. 
The study did not include trade schools. 
The Stafford program grew from loans of $6.8 billion in 1980-81 to $9.8 billion in 1990-91; defaults account for about 20 percent of the program's total cost. 
Earlier this year, the Educa­tion Department said 558 insti· tutions faced the loss of some or all of their aid program eli­gibility because they logged default rates above 55 percent or failed to lower default rates of 40 percent or more from the previous year. 
But the authors of the study, Seaks and Laura Greene Knapp, said their research "casts strong doubt on the effi­ciency and propriety" of that policy. 
"No one would blame a hos­pital for a high mortality rate without conditioning the death rates on the complexity of its cases and the difficulty of its surgery," they wrote. 


~cue·uGOBBLE UP 
The Savings On... Dry Cleaning and Drop-Off Laundry 
Don't Let Things Pile Up! 
$1.00 OFF DRY CLEANING 
ON ALL COATS AT 
WORlD'~ GR~T~~T lA~NDROMAT 
1813SouthBendAve. 
271 7675 

Campus Shoppes Shopping Center • Werntz Hardware) 
professionally taped concerns 
4 P.M. • MIDNIGHT 
and ask for the name or number of the tape you wish to hear 
laga# Title 
1 Friendship Building 
3 Types of Intimacy 
4 Physical Intimacy 
5 Fighting Constructively 
6 Expressing Negative Thoughts and Feelings 
7 Dealing With Constructive Criticism 
8 Dealing With Anger 
9 Understanding Jealousy and How to Deal With It 
1 0 Avoiding Overresponsibillty: How to Say "No" 
16 Becoming Open To Others 
1 8 Dating Skills 
20 Female Homosexuality 
21 Male Homosexuality 
30 Anxiety and Possible Ways to Cope With It 
32 How to Deal With Loneliness 
33 How to Handle Fears 
34 Increasing Self-Awareness 
35 Building Self-Esteem and Confidence 
36 The Value of Self-Talk 
37 Relaxation Exercises 
38 Coping With Stress 
39 Female Sex Role-Changes and Stresses 
40 Male Sex Role-Changes and Stresses 
44 Learning to Accept Yourself 
!awl# Title 

50 Understanding Eating Disorders 
51 Understanding Anorexia Nervosa 
52 Understanding Bulimia 
53 Compulsive Overeating 
61 What Is Therapy and How to Use It 
65 Date Rape: How Men Can Prevent It 
66 Date Rape: Awareness for Women 
70 Infatuation or Love? 
83 How To Cope With a Broken Relationship 
84 Death and Dying 
85 Understanding Grief 
90 Helping a Friend 
160 Early Signs of an Alcohol Problem 
161 Responsible Decisions About Drinking 
402 Self-Assertiveness 
412 Examples of Contract Building 
431 What Is Depression? 
432 How To Deal With Depression 
433 Depression as a lifestyle 
478 Becoming Independent from Parents 
479 Dealing With Alcoholic Parents 
491 Suicidal Crisis 
492 Recognizing Suicidal Potentials in Others 
493 Helping Someone In a Suicidal Crisis 
The complete list of tapes Is also available on page 3 of your Notre Dame/St. Mary's telephone directory. Counseline is sponsered by the University Counseling Center. For further Information or assistance, call 239-7336. 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­








Viewpoint 
Wednesday, November 18, 1992 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor.................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor...Anna Marie Tabor Controller........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Being pro-life with integrity takes some 'heroism' 
Dear Editor:  Heroism is sometimes called for  as a rescue. It involves such  women in the care of children is  embody, even if always  
Given the importance of the  in order to remain faithful to  things as allocating more funds  not only a church with integrity,  imperfectly, God's kingdom once  
issue of abortion, and given the  the requirements of the divine  for research into the possibility  but one that is effective.  again.  
recent public confusion regard­ law."  of developing a diocesan group  Punitive measures -whether  To live the sacramental life is  
ing my understanding of the  There is no doubt that the  home network, working in a  they be through civil or eccle­ to live within this ongoing dy­ 
relationship between the right  Church -its people and its  group home for what amounts  siallaws-will have no positive  namic of commensurate hero­ 
to life and the quality of life, it  many associations ­does much  to little over minimum wage,  impact without a communal  ism and confession, of the  
would be helpful if you ran the  to care for those in need and to  providing parish financial and  context of care where those  "already" and the "not yet."  
following talk I gave on Pro-Life  plead their case in the public  emotional support for a family  measures are more plausible  The closing of the Gospel  
Sunday, "Being Pro-Life with  forum. However, the question  that wishes to adopt a so-called  and living in accordance with  reading has it exactly right:  
Integrity," which I grounded in  arises as to whether these  "unadoptable" child, and  them more possible.  "When you have done all that is  
the day's readings:  practices -and whatever  changing for the third time that  Joseph Cardinal Bernardin  commanded, you say, 'We are  
heroism they embody -are  day the soiled pants of your  writes, "There must be some  unworthy servants; we have.  
The reading from Habakkuk  commensurate to what the  new six-year old foster child  connection ­logical, legal and  only done what was our duty'"  
(1:2-3; 2:2-4) speaks clearly:  Church requires of women in  who has yet to be toilet trained.  social -between our lack of  (Luke 17:5-10).  
"And the Lord answered me:  situations of unintended preg­ moral vision in protecting un­ Such a pattern of life ­of do­ 
'Write the vision; make it plain  nancy.  Ultimately, the life of com­ born children and our lack of  ing all one can and then being  
upon tablets, so that whoever  The American bishops' 1985  mensurate heroism is a sacra­ social vision in the provision of  called to confess one's unwor­ 
reads it may run. For still the  document, Pastoral Plan for  mental way of life. Sacraments  basic necessities for women and  thiness -can be frustrating.  
vision awaits its time; it hastens  Pro-Life Activities states as an  make the invisible visible, the  children."  The constant temptation is to  
to the end-it will not lie.  ideal the provision of material  "not yet" present here and now.  What is lacking is a commu­ give up. We will give in to this  
If it seems slow, wait for it; it  assistance for up to one year.  Commensurate heroism is a  nity that embodies the sacra­ temptation if we do not remind  
will surely come, it will not de­ But women with unintended  community's willingness to  mental life of commensurate  ourselves just as constantly that  
lay."' Today is pro-life Sunday,  pregnancies are not thinking of  absorb into its own life the fact  heroism. What is lacking is a  it is through confession that we  
and I have a vision. It is of a  simply one year of care.  that the world is not yet at the  community with integrity and  are empowered to participate  
church, and ultimately a whole  Two-thirds of the women who  fullness of the kingdom of God,  therefore a community that is  once again in the sacramental  
society, that shapes its com­ have abortions list as one of  and through that absorption to  effective in reducing the inci­ way of life.  
munity and structures its insti­ their primary reasons the  transform that fact of the "not  dence of abortion. We need to  I do not need to tell most of  
tutions and forms the hearts of  inability economically to care  yet" into a sign of the presence  raise the question as a church  the persons here that caring for  
its people such that its claim of  for the child if the pregnancy  of God's kingdom.  -and as individual parishes ­ children is both a joy and a  
pro-life has integrity.  were brought to term. They are  We practice this sacramental  whether we desire to be that  burden. Making good on the  
The Catholic Church's teach­ thinking .of a minimum of eigh­ way of life by taking on -by  community.  promise to help others in the  
ing on taking the life of the em­ teen years. This does not justify  sharing in ­the sacrifices that  A cautionary note is neces­ care of theirs may seem beyond  
bryo and fetus is an unbending  their decision, but it does begin  are required of a woman if she  sary. Again, commensurate  our abilities. The.necessary  
bne. It requires many women  to make clear what is required  is to bring an unintended  heroism involves not single bold  sacrifice makes sense only in  
with unintended pregnancies to  of a community that dares to  pregnancy to term and care for  acts, but a way of life. It is an  the context of a sacramental  
undergo economic hardship, to  exhibit commensurate heroism.  the child that results. As we  ongoing process. This is the  way of life that is at once diffi­ 
forego life opportunities, to risk  Such heroism is not exhibited  find in the eucharist -as we  case above all for theological  cult and empowering.  
health and even life. It asks  primarily in single bold acts by  find with all sacraments ­only  reasons: we cannot, of our­ Therefore, I close with our  
nothing less than a heroism that  individuals. It rarely gets media  this sacrifice makes the pres­ selves, bring about the final  reading from 2 Timothy (1:6-8,  
is fitting for the kingdom of  coverage. It is a quiet ­though  ence of the kingdom possible.  fullness of the kingdom of God.  13-14): "God did not five us a  
God.  no less bold ­way of life of an  It is also the case that such a  We can participate ill grace, but  spirit of timidity, but a spirit of  
The Congregation for the  entire community.  sacramental life will reduce the  we also always fall short.  power and love and constancy.  
Doctrine of the Faith, in its doc­ In the words of the American  incidence of abortion. It will re­ Therefore, trying to follow  Do not be ashamed then of tes­ 
ument, Declaration on Abortion,  bishops' document, Putting  duce the incidence because it  with integrity the Catholic  tifying to our Lord, but share in  
puts the matter this way:  Children and Families First,  directly addresses the forces  teaching on abortion is not  suffering for the gospel in the  
"Following one' s conscience in  "The most important work is  which de facto play a role in  cause for self-righteousness, it  power of God."  
obedience to the law of God is  done quietly -in our homes  women having abortions. Again,  is the occasion for repentance  Todd David Whitmore  
not always the easy way. One  and neighborhoods, our  two-thirds of the women say  -the confession of our sins  Assistant Professor of  
must not fail to recognize the  parishes and community or­ that they are unable eco­ and the re-turning towards  Christian Ethics  
weight of the sacrifices and the  ganizations."  nomically to care for the child.  God, so that we might  Nov. 16, 1992  
burdens which it can impose.  The work is not as dramatic  A church that aids and joins  participate in grace and  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY  

5AM.'S'7'CF t:ATING 
7H& 5/Wf}! Pf.IT IT f}(}t(JN, satZTHt'ART/ 
\ 

ICHIIJJ CAR& ATM4U8U. t 
54M/GIV& 
MR. t£77lii?MAN 
HI$!fATBACK.! 
""' 

'It is not true that life is one damn thing after another ... it's the same damn thing over and 
over again.' 

Edna St. VIncent Millay 
Submit, damnit: 

QUOTES. P.O. Box Q. ND,IN 46556 


Viewpoint
page 8 Wednesday, November 18, 1992 



ND For The Homeless f) 
Homelessness: Myth and Context 
Hornelessness is a haunting social problem that has out­grown society's conventional understanding. Its persistence has caused viable ideas to stag­nate, creating an industry with an endless litany of root cause and quick fix. And in an effort to comprehend, we too often try to lay blame, as if this will somehow make the problem disappear. 
How effectively we deal with hornelessness will depend on just how well we recognize the popular misconceptions that surround it, especially miscon­ceptions that omit much of what is relevant -the context of social life and the experience of being homeless. I'd like to restore some of that context in this piece. 
• Myth 1: The homeless pose a threat to the common good and will further rent the social fabric. 
We like to talk about society vs. the homeless as if the homeless weren't part of soci­ety. But as one homeless man on the Bowery in the late 1970s told me, "Remember, you can't spell burn without 'u' in it!" 
This man's refusal to pit "them" against "us" suggests that we all make up the social problem. Social and economic relations shape the lives of rich and poor alike and the in­tensely competitive nature of American life means there will always be winners and losers. Without a commitment to both the notion and practice of the common good, the pressures of the success game pose a grave threat to many, including those who become homeless. 
• Myth 2: There is a root cause to the homeless problem that can be removed from the social environment. 
Diagnosing a cause, and corn­ing up with a cure, may fit the medical model but this ap­proach collapses in the tangled web of social problems. The variables cannot be controlled because social life is too com­plex. Looking for the root cause to the variety of problems lumped under the catch-all term of "hornelessness" merely advances superficial ap-
Photo courtesy of Jim Hubbard and ND Student Government 
Food lines are often long and inclement weather is little deterrence. For young and old alike, food supplied by charitable organizations is often the only nourishment available. 
proaches. 

This drive to isolate a root cause reflects a half-hearted attempt to resolve the breach between American ideals and realities. We tend to like our problems clean and simple. But insisting on a single cause for the homeless problem only helps us to sleep at night, not the homeless. 
• Myth 3: By blaming the victim, we demonstrate that the homeless person -and only the homeless person -is ac­countable for his or her situa­tion. 
This inclination to blame the victim will not make the prob­lem disappear, nor will it spark the processes necessary for correction and reform. All such finger-pointing does is rope off the "bad" from the "good." Such a dissociation masks the relationship between hornelessness and broader social problems, such as economic and social change, class divisions, racial inequities, poverty, health care and af­fordable housing. 
• Myth 4: The "chronic" homeless freely choose their way of life and assume no per­sonal responsibility for their condition. 
In general, the homeless live under conditions of maximum constraint and rn1mrnurn choice, as do the very poor and disabled. Fewer than ever of today's homeless have dropped into hornelessness from signifi­cantly higher social ranks. People are more likely to have been born into hornelessness, into a cycle of extreme poverty and social marginality. Their lives have pointed them toward shelters by the time they are 25. 
Many homeless people do find the strength to seek help in substance-abuse or other social service programs. Some may end up back on the street because of the perniciousness of hornelessness. 
It is often hard to reverse the process. For what the horne­less do own is their very hornelessness, and it's hard to take that sense of identity away from a person without reper­cussions. An attachment to one's suffering seems to occur, not unlike that sense of self and identity experienced by the vic­tims and survivors of Hi­roshima, the Holocaust, and the Vietnam War. 
Taking this myth that the homeless "choose" their fate further, one often finds an in­dictment of the homeless for being manipulative, for having found ways to use the system to their advantage. Certainly there are homeless people who have learned to manipulate the guilt we feel when confronted with a frostbitten person sleeping in cardboard. But there are bankers and lawyers and senators and shopkeepers who have learned to use the system to their advantage, too. We wouldn't be willing to let them starve. 
We must view the situation through the eyes of the horne­less person, not through the lens of middle-class society. When asked whether the homeless needed to assume responsibility for their condi­tion, the late novelist Jerzy Kosinski, once homeless him­self, responded: "They already did that. They are alive." By dint of not quitting life alto­gether, the homeless do take responsibility for themselves. 
This is certainly not the re­sponse most people would have in mind, but does that make it any less true? As long as we exalt the myths and mask the true contexts, we will look but not see. Like Ralph Ellison's underground character, the homeless "though implicated and partially responsible,...have been hurt to the point of abysmal pain, hurt to the point of invisibility." 
Benedict Giamo is an assis­tant professor of American Studies at the University of Notre Dame. He is the co-au­thor (along with Jeffrey Grun­berg) of Beyond Homelessness: Frames of Reference and the author of On the Bowery. 

Photo courtesy of Jim Hubbard and NO Student Government 
Some homeless families have been forced to live in campgrounds. 
Editor's note: The following poems were written by residents ofthe South Bend Centerfor the Homeless: 
Beart of my Matter 
Why must we all live this way So close yet so far So far yet so close Always afraid and cautious So much hurt afflicted That's what makes us this way Well strange I may be But at least I am me And one day I will find another 
like myself Brave and strong Young and innocent Tender and pure And we will give each other all 
the things only we can give 
and only we can receive For we will be like one unto each other And we will feel the earth beneath our 
feet, as we touch the sky 
Captain 
I am captain of my ship sailing the sea of life Learning the seas by weathering the storms, of pain and misfortune 
Clonquering the fears that I may know the pleasures For they are there for all who dare to learn and sail 
NO For1Jte Homeless Week ·1992 .······IIEGf PROJECT ROSE: 
'I<;F;,,!b '(.j\Wrtceora.~yoU can m~kea 
.directdonatioo tc:rthe Soutbtiend Center For The J{omeJ~ X'9l! canpurcb~the ROSE CARD <from your FresltrJlellClass ~ouncn Representative 
· hra' tb~ Lafortu~ illto. desk. 

--~--------·-----~------~---­


Accent 
Wednesday, November 18, 1992 page 9 

Jeanne Blasi 

From the Playpen 

Let it snow, 
let it snow, 


let it snow 
I 
t's that time of year again. A hint of Mr. 
Freeze's snowy presence looms over South 
Bend. But the Heat Miser is right on his tail, as 
always, ready to do battle. 
The Heat Miser's headquarters, located 
under the shiny golden dome, already issued 
several decrees. There will be no snow fun this 
winter. 
Once again, the Heat Misers waged another 
attempt to ban the annual campus snowball fight, 
north quad versus south quad, which traditionally 
occurs spontaneously after the first substantial 
snowfall. 
In spite of the Heat Misers' attempts to melt 
enthusiasm for this annual event in previous years, 
the fresh fallen snow and cheerful screaming voices 
of classmates outside lures students outside. 
My participation in the snowball fight for the 
past three years provides some of my favorite 
memories of Notre Dame. My four years would not 
have been the same without this winter bonding with 
my friends, attempting to lob snow across the quad 
during this late night event and going back to drink 
hot chocolate. (All we need to do is fire up that old 
fireplace in south dining hall to make it a hallmark 
card). 
The thrill comes from spontaneously playing in 
the snow with 1,000 of my fellow students who 
miraculously abandoned their studies, tests or not, 
for snow masks and gloves and in watching my 
friends who have never seen 'real' snow wade 
through in excitement as they are exposed to its 
wonders. 
The opportunity to relive childhood memories of 
neighborhood snowball fights, or living those 
moments for the first time draws students out of their 
warm study hovels every year. 
Any fool knows that if one gets pelted with a 
three or four inch in diameter ball of frozen water, it 
is going to hurt, painfully. 
Last year, my friend got nailed in the eye with a 
snowball; she walked around campus with a painful 
black eye for over a week. But she still says of her 
experience, "It was totally worth it." 
Obviously this event is embedded deep in the 
hearts of many students. This fact should speak loud 
and clear to student government. Why not 
institutionalize this popular event instead of wasting 
time with petty revenge-ftlled quarrels about refunds 
and whatnot? 
The threat of campus security photographing 
and later identifying snow delinquents, then 
confiscating their identification cards has not stopped 
this annual snow battle in the past. ("What do you 
mean that's me? I would never wear a neon orange 
face-mask, Joe Security.") 
The University and student organizations have 
failed to work together to see the importance of this 
mass stress reliever so many people look forward to, 
the only even remotely 'rebellious' event that ever 
takes place on this campus. 
Instead, they just want to do away with our 
winter fun. Ironically, more people participate in the 
unpublicized snowball fight than show up at many 
student government events. 
Student Affairs should compromise with student 
government to evolve the annual snow fight into a 
form less damaging to campus property . 
Why not suggest a retreat to Stepan fields? Or a north versus south quad snow fort building challenge. A battle over who can build the largest snowman. Even a snow slide? Or, instead of having the snowball fight, we could have a campus "SnowFest" that kicks off at that first predictable snowfall, complete with hot chocolate, snow angels, and sleds. 
How long will it take to realize the students want to 'play' in the snow, not maliciously damage property. It's time to find solutions and finally take advantage of the mass quantities of snow dumped upon South Bend. 
Or else, once again, the snow will fly, and the Heat Misers will waste countless hours scrutinizing their snow blurred photographs for my picture. 
Jeanne Blasi is production manager ofThe Observer. Her columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 



Adrenalized 
DefLeppard welcomed to the JACC 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Def Leppard does not disappoint. From the unveiling of the band to the fmal two encores, the show was completely electric. Literally. Spectacular dizzy rings and blocks of color spun over the JACC as Joe Elliot and company danced and skipped around the stage packing four albums into two and a half hours of lights, lasers, and familiar rock vocals that made up their "Seven Day Weekend" Tour. 
Skipping the introductions, Def Leppard launched into "Let's Get Rocked," immediately bringing the audience to its feet. Drummer Rick Allen kept center stage on a rotating, laser-encrusted platform that elevated about ten feet during "Rocket." 
Elliot was true to his MTV style with plenty of head and arm movement. His maneuvers never failed to liven up the audience. 
"You guys are looking good! Are you ready to be adrenalized?" Elliot questioned the audience before belting out a "Hysteria" favorite, "Women." The microphone was periodically surrendered to the audience, who faithfully echoed the choruses. 
Elliot commented about the JACC and being back in South Bend between "Hysteria" and "Make Love Like a 'Man," describing it as a "giant spaceship thing" that is ideal for their stage set-up. 
John Smeeton, show director and production designer, said, "We have our own generators outside-we could light this whole 

'Talking With... ' presented at Dalloway's 
Def Leppard entertained a lively crowd at the JACC with their 
"Seven Day Tour." 

building ... easily." This is Smeeton's first year with Def Leppard, but he has been designing shows for 25 years, working with the likes of Peter Gabriel, Billy Idol, Phil Collins, Tears for Fears, and Mike and the Mechanics. 
"The circular stage is always difficult to do with four fronts and no back," Smeeton said. "Being in the round, we don't have a backstage," Smeeton continued. "There are 12 people working under the stage." 
Between numbers, Elliot kept talking to a minimum, and spent it on introducing fellow band mem­bers and explaining where the band had been hiding for the last four years. 
"We seem to do everything in four-year cycles. The Hysteria album took four years to complete," Elliot reminded the audience. "We made a stupid promise that we'd never spend four years on another album," he said, pausing for reaction to the irony. 
He described Allen's loss of his arm as "a minor setback" and kissed his finger and pointed to the sky in memory of guitarist Steve Clark. Replacement Phil Collen won the audience's approval when Elliot announced that Collen is "now more than a friend, he's a full-fledged member of the family." 
Malvin Mortimer, the group's tour manager, commented on playing to the Notre Dame family, "In America, the audiences are consistently good-they feel more of a release than (audiences in big cities where shows go on all the time). The student faction (seems to have taken) a couple of shots," he grinned. 
Def Leppard are still pretty down to earth," he continued enthusiastically. "They're not drowned in stardust. They don't demand too much {but) they're always striving for this pitch-they keep trying hard." 

The group also included an "unplugged" segment to their show. "This is the part of the evening when we have a little fun with you," Elliot smiled before he and the guitarists traded playing snippets of familiar tunes. The change of pace found Elliot and guitarists sitting on the stage, inviting the audience to sing along. 
The newer songs such as "Have You Ever Needed Someone So Bad" seemed crisper and more distinct than some of the older numbers. Crowd response to the current radio hits was molecular. 
White spirals of light floated over the stands while the audience responded to Elliot's "Are you getting it?" during "Armageddonit." Appeals to the audience only worked the JACC into a frenzy that attained fever pitch to the end. 
After "Rock of Ages", hardly a second passed before Elliot got the crowd screaming "Hey" as an introduction to the final nimber, "Pour Some Sugar On Me." 
As a last good-bye, the group played "Photograph" as the second encore and sounded as biting and chill-inducing as the original in 1983. Def Leppard left the stage promising, "Until next time, and there will be a next time." 


By ALISON DASSO 
Accent Writer 
T 
he Saint Mary's College Department of Communications, Dance, and Theater will present the play "Talking With ..." Wednesday, November 18 through Friday, November 20 at 8 p.m. in Dalloway's Coffeehouse. 
Originally written by playwright Jane Martin, for the Actor's Theater in Louisville, Kentucky, "Talking With ... " presents 11 soliloquies by women who create their own opportunities and travel uncommon paths. Characters include a baton twirler, bronco rider, and snake handler. 
"This play is unusual because of its monologue structure," claims play director and communication professor, Katie Sullivan. "This play presents a message of courage and the strength to make choices. The audience will be entertained and the play will make them. think a lot about their lives and choices." 
Cast members from Saint Mary's include seniors Jeannie Goodnow and Keri Latherow; junior Jill Hotek; sophomore Shayla Richards; and freshman Kathryn O'Donnell. Joining them from Notre Dame is freshman Megan Blakey. 
Members of the cast also include such people from the Michiana 
community as Terry Braunstein, Cathy Duncan, Melissa Manier, MaryAnn Moran, and Sydney Wellen. 
In addition to the human cast members will be Eli the cat, owned by sociology professor Susan Alexander; and Mitch the snake, a friend of biology professor Doris Watt. 
Tickets for "Talking With ... " and the discussion that will follow after the play, can be purchased for one dollar and will be available at the door of Dalloway's Coffeehouse, located at the south end of the campus. For more information, call 1-219-284-4640. 


A member of the Theatre Grottesco theater company rehearses for upcoming performances in Washington Hall. The company is unique in bringing a more modern style to American 
audiences Photo by John Bingham
"The Richest Dead Man Alive" 

Theatre Grottesco brings 'in your-face' comedy to Washington Hall 
By JENNIFER GUERIN Assistant Accent Editor 
When Theatre Grottesco per­formed the world premiere of "Fortune: The Rise and Fall of a Small Fortune Cookie Factory" at Notre Dame two years ago, the faculty of the Communi­cation and Theatre Department were so impressed with the unique perspective Grottesco brought to theatre that they seized the opportunity to let the campus community experience it again. 
After 18 months of touring their current production, this small Detroit­based company comes back to Washington Hall tonight, performing "The Richest Dead Man Alive!" The play has been revised since its first performance in August of 1991, but the basic story remains unchanged: a simple couple is tempted to outlandish extremes by the promise of easy money. 
"There seem to be more people who will do horrendous things for money these days," laughed artistic director Elizabeth Wiseman, who described this particular work as "a comedy with a dark twist." The play comments on power of greed to manipulate people's attitudes and actions in modern society. 
Despite its serious undercurrent, "The Richest Dead Man Alive!" focuses on comedy. "To live now, you've just got to have a sense of humor," said Wise­man. "Expect to have fun. Come ready to laugh. It's easy." 
The current production combines traditional elements with outrageous, innovative theatre. Stripping any dramatic production of classical influence is impossible because all schools and ages of theatre build upon each other, Wiseman explained; how­ever, a modern movement in various fields of art do more than simply re­create classical styles. 
Many artists, including the members of Theatre Grottesco, are attempting to fuse traditional elements with experimental styles and themes, thus making theatre more attuned to its modern audience. 
"People who live now are faced with today's world," insisted Wiseman. "I think that re-creations of works are very valid-a lot of the new work is done in a style that is an old style ... but Uust 
A strong understanding of physical interpretation is a criterion for all members of the group. Compared to language, "action is much more universal," said Wiseman. 
Theatre Grottesco keeps action primary in the play, by keeping all of the action-including costume changes, scene changes and props-on the visible stage. "We don't use any wings," Wiseman explained. "A piece of tape is put down on the stage. When we are inside that line, we are part of the main 
as] a painter is very-----------------action." This 
Lecoq in Paris,-----------------­
much encouraged to develop his or her own work, I'm really dedicated to creating new work that plays with new styles and uses new  'There seem to be more people who will do horrendous things for money these days ' ·  method of presentation opens up the world of theater to the audience, leaving nothing to the imagination.  
themes."  "It has the 'here's- 
Wiseman and her partner, John  --Elizabeth Wiseman  everything-in­your-face' feel to  
Flax, are graduates  it, just like  the  
of the  renowned  real world," she  
Ecole  Jacques  said.  

Wiseman 

France, where they trained in a variety of disciplines, from acting to clowning and acrobatics. They founded Theatre Grottesco in France in 1983 and moved it to the United States in 1985 to bring their original works to audiences around the country. 
Unlike most plays, which are written first and then interpreted on stage, the works of Theatre Grottesco use action, not text, as their foundations. Members of the company work in teams to develop action-based scenarios, adding text only after the action has been stretched to its most expressive capacity. 
says that unlike Europeans, most of whom are exposed to dramatic productions on a regular basis, many Americans are leery, and even afraid, of the slightest variations from classical theatre. What is considered avant­garde in American theatre has been in the mainstream of European theatre for as long as ten years, she noted. The reason for this may be simply a failure of American theatres to adopt European styles quickly, not necessarily a rejection of these new styles by theatre-goers. 
"People aren't that different," said Wiseman, "it's just that Europeans are more educated in art." She added that Americans have trouble grasping the idea that theatre can be accessible, comprehensible, and enjoyable. 
Wiseman attributed this lack of education and support in the fine arts to a lethargic economy and a culture that tends to value sports more than the arts. 
Because many Americans place less importance on the arts than Europeans do, they do not always fight adamantly to guarantee funds and facilities for artistic endeavors. Theatre Grottesco, still a relatively new company, dreams of not having to scrimp for the money to produce their innovative type of plays. But over the past few years, the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) has lost resources steadily, and in Michigan, where Theatre Grottesco is based, the governor recently cut the state council for the arts. 
According to Wiseman, she and her companions feel compelled to make a kind of social statement with their productions. Theatre Grottesco tackles a variety of themes, from the timeless to the topical, concentrating on how to relate them to the modern audience. "For us," said Wiseman, "humanity is very important. We see that disap­pearing not only in art, but in life." 
Performances of "The Richest Dead Man Alive!" runs from Wednesday, November 18 to Saturday, November 21, at 8:10 p.m. and Sunday, November 22, at 3:10p.m. Tickets are $7 for reserved seats, and are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office. Student and senior citizen discounts for $5 are available for the Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday shows. 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

Wednesday, November 18,1992 The Observer page 11 
San Antonio Spurs averted their worst start ever by defeating the Cleveland Cavaliers 106-95
Holtz NBA 
Tuesday night. The victory gave the Spurs a 2-4 record. No San
continued from page 16 continued from page 14 
Antonio NBA team has ever started 1-5.
"This defense has become straight points, difusing the rally and allowing Larry Nance led the Cavaliers, losers of threevery aggressive, even a little bit Houston to survive Sacramento's 9-2 run at the straight games, with 22 points and Danny Ferry nasty. They'll hit you when end of the games. 
scored 15. Sean Elliott scored 17 points for the 
they don't have to, they just hit Rookie Robert Horry had 23 points and four of Spurs.
Houston's 14 blocked shots. Kenny Smith had 16
you in practice." San Antonio used a 13-4 run in the fourth
assists, one shy of his career high.
Of course, the development of quarter to take a 91-78lead with 6:30 to go. 
Sacramento was paced by center Duane
the Irish defense has been a The Cavaliers closed to 98-90 with 1:18
Causwell with 20 points and nine rebounds, and
slow process, but Holtz feels remaining after an 8-0 run, but two free throws 
Lionel Simmons with 19 points and 10 rebounds.
that right now they are near the each from Elliott and Sidney Green put the game
Jim Les had 14 points, including 4-for-4 shooting
point that they want to be at Willie McGinest out of reach, 102-90 at the 34-second mark. 
from behind the 3-point line. 
San Antonio shot 52 percent from the field, led
heading into the showdown 
by Ellis' 9-for-11 effort. It was the first time this
with the Trojans. win, then they want you to win season the Spurs made more than half of their"We needed to develop a de­big, then they don't like how 
Bucks 114, Hawks 106 
shots.

fensive temperament, an atti­you're winning." Frank Brickowski scored 10 of his 22 points tude is very important," noted On losing-"Sometimes we in the final six minutes, lifting the Milwaukee Holtz, "And we have and we are think we can take losses and it Bucks to a 114-106 victory over the Atlanta 
Warriors 125, Heat 119 
staying with fundamentals. won't affect us, we think we can Hawks on Tuesday night. 
Tim Hardaway scored 10 of his 26 points in 
Eric Murdock added 22 points and Alvin
Rick Minter (the new defensive shrug it off, but we're just the final three minutes as the Golden State
Robertson had 20 as the Bucks won for the third
coordinator) has done a human." Warriors snapped a four-game losing streak with 
time in four road games and for the fifth time in
tremendous job, we have gotten On Johnny Majors' forced a 125-119 victory over the Miami Heat Tuesday 
seven games overall this season. Last season,
better and better. resignation at Tennessee-"It's night.
Milwaukee was 6-35 on the road and 31-51
"We'll see how good they are like Jesus Christ saying, 'Which With the score tied 108-108, Hardaway
overall. 
one of my miracles are you rebounded Rony Seikaly's miss, drove the lengthnext weekend. The defense has 
Dominique Wilkins led Atlanta with 34 points, 
of the court and hit a layup, making it 110-108to do well-we're not going to most upset about?' Coaching is 
his fifth game over 30 this season. Stacey 
with three minutes to play. 
score a lot of points against this a crazy profession." 
Augrnon, playing only his second game, added 22 
On the next two Heat possessions, Hardaway
defense." On recruiting with scholar­points. 
gathered up loose balls after Miami shots wereHoltz also fielded a number of ship limitations-"You can't af­The victory was Milwaukee's first in Atlanta blocked.
questions not pertaining di­ford a mistake today. Today since Dec. 7, 1990. The Bucks lost their previous He converted the first into a layup and then fed rectly to Notre Dame. one recruiting class can't make three games and 11 of 12 at the Omni. 
Keith Jennings, who scored a career-high 22, for a you, but one can break you." Atlanta trailed only 93-89 with 7:40 to play after 
On the bowl coalition-"1 tried 3-point shot that gave the Warriors a 115-108 
to explain the coalition to my On Rick Mirer's poise-"He's a basket by Augmon, but Milwaukee then lead with 2:15 left. the calmest guy I've ever seen. outscored the Hawks 14-7 to put the game out of
wife and I found that I don't Hardaway, who also had 11 rebounds and six
reach. Brickowski and Murdock each had six
understand it." He's the same, never excitable, assists, added a layup and two free throws in the
points in the run.
On the call from fans to blitz always in command... He's the final two minutes as Golden State refused to let more on defense-"Miami same whether we're winning Miami back into the game. 
Spurs 106, Cavaliers 95 
Billy Owens scored 24 points for the Warriors,doesn't blitz-there are a lot of 38-0 over Navy or there's four 
Dale Ellis scored 20 points and David 
20 in the second half, and Chris Mullin had 20.
different ways to play de­minutes left and we're down 
Robinson and Lloyd Daniels each had 19 as the Miami was led by Seikaly with 27. 
fense ... First people want you to seven to Penn State." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spar.es. 
·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·& Found: To the Folks in SEATILE, Issaquah Set of keys, in Niewland Physics WASHINGTON,
NOTICES FOR RENT I I PERSONAL
HELP ME.... Hall bathroom. Five keys, several labelled 614 Call x1665 I'M DOING WELL, BUT I STILL 
Room for Rent For 2nd Sem: House Hey Niff I lost my jacket at the Spin Doctors DON'T HAVE A JOB, 
12/09 5 min from campus. Call287-4227 ---------­concert ... LOST-AT BRIDGETS AFTER BC WHAT GIVES?
OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES GAME, A PURPLE SKI JACKET SEND MONEY AND VIRTUALATIENTION: 
For more information and Room for Rent: Non-smoking It's a green barn jacket with blue WITH A PINK ZIP-OUT LINER. REALITY INFORMATION TO
assistance regarding the female grad student. Limited kitchen ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. corduroy cuffs and collar and the PLEASE CALL MIKE X1103 SOUTH BEND
investigation of financing, business facilities. 288-2232 before 1 pm. family can provide financial security,label says Forester. ASAP
opportunities and work-at-home excellent education and wonderful LOST IN THE FIELD FRENZY SEEYA
opportunities, THE OBSERVER BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY future for your baby. Confidential You know how cold it gets in South AFTER THE IRISH VICTORY: PATRICK
urges its readers to contact the 219-291-7153 and legal. Expenses paid. Call 
Bend. I NEED my coat. Blue Noter Dame w/ about 8 beer
Better Business Bureau of Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805) caps snaped to it. MARGE
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., 520-5978 or attorney (818) 241­Plus it has sentimental value A Green snap on hood. FOR SALE 
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637-5535. 
because my sister gave it to me and A Blue snap on hood. Uncle Roscoe is coming for 
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­
she doesn't live in the country Christmas!!
1!1111!!1!11!111!!1!!!!!!!!!!1!!!1!11!!1!1!!1!1111!!!!!11 anymore. $$$$ CASH $$$$$$$$ CHRISTMAS SWEATSHIRTS for Washington Hall
9121 or 800-439-5313. 
Watch out, this Friday Nov. 20 
$$$$ REWARD $$$$$$$$ sale!!! Call to see samples ... 273-Dec. 3, 4, 5
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 HOBBES turns 21 , Beware
2967.
If you found it, please contact 
!!!!!!!1!!1!11111111111111!1111111111111111111!111111!11 Bethany at 283-2702. Happy Happy! Joy Joy! PLEASE HELP, 
TYPING 
Ren & Stimpy Rules 1 way tix to D.C. area (Dulles) on NEED RIDE FOR 2 TO DAYTON,
MEN AND WOMEN287-4082 

&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·& 11/23. Cheap! Kelly x2899 OH FOR THANKSGIVING, WILL HELP ... SKI SEASON IS NEAR I!! HELP PAY GAS/TOLLS. CALL
Guaranteed Free Spring Break Trip FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE 
LOST: BUT my SKIIS are NOT HERE. Selling a plane ticket to North DAN, X2318
To Bahamas or Panama City! 
Silver and green Claddaugh ring LOST: Two pairs of downhill skiis in Carolina over Thanksgiving break. 
Cancun, Jamaica, Daytona, Keys! For more info, call COSIMO'S 
at Senior Bar on Thurs. 5 Nov. blue ski bag,(Rossignol 4S & K2) Interested? Call Dave at 283-3662. You better watch out.
Sign-Up Before 12/11/92! 277-1875. 
Sentimental valuel Erin x3867 LAST SEEN: Farley Hall , but could You better not cry. 
Springbreak! 1-800-678-6386. 
be anywhere. I know. pretty difficult SKIS You better not pout. 
SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK FOUND: COIN CHARM OUTSIDE to "lose" ... I'm telling you why. 
••spring Break! •• Bahamas Cruise '93! JAMAICA, CANCUN, FLORIDA
Atomic 833 sl -203 em.
OF LAFORTUNE. CALL ANGEL Please contact Paula w/ and for UNCLE ROSCOE'S COMING TO
(+10 Meals) $279! FROM $119. BOOK EARLY, SAVE 239-8422. info @ 4271. Reward if found. new, great price TOWN...
Panama City with kitchen $119 $$. ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL
call Kevin x 1 062 Cancun $429! Jamaica $479! 
Thanks. 

FREE! CALL LOST: (11/4 in Chern Lab) LOSE FAT! Healthy, guaranteed diet 
Daytona (kitchens) $149! KeyWest 1-800-426-771 0. 
Adjustable fake-silver ring with For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call program. Affordable. Call (616)471­$249! Prices increase 12/11/92! 
I

green plastic stone. This ad costs WANTED Rita Delivery on Campus 3970.
$5.50 HAIRCUTS me more than it is worth! 
1-800-678-6386 
234-6524 
••••••••••••wANTEo•••••••••••••• VITO'S BARBER & STYLING Call 2721 and ask for Bridget if Hi Robert, thought I'd send some
SHOP you've got it. love from Rome. I miss you. It's 
$$TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT: Ride to Scranton, PA or any where 
SEGA GENESIS & GMS: BST OFR Make $$$$$ and assist Ameritech along 1-80 in PA for Thanksgiving. 
1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST

273-2514 
almost Jan. 61 Can't wait 2 see U.

233-4767 HELP HELP HELP Ti amo care mio, Leah
Information Sys. with the NO Will help with gas, tolls and driving. 
telephone conversion. We have Flexible in departure and return 
Have a CHEAP round trip plane 
I lost a green irish scarf 
evening work available in Decem­times. CALL JILL@ X4758 !!!!!!!!!11!1!11!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! @ the 'backer this weekend Ciao! Just a friend from Rome here 
ticket for a female (from Chicago) ber and all shifts over Christmas 
I know that it is not the nicest and game ticket to USC. Call Kevin wanting 2 let my pals know I miss 
break. Please call 239-8856 for Need ride to Delaware Valley area Watch out, HOBBES is tuming 
thing in the world, but it has at 312-871-8217 after 7 pm them. 2 my great friends: Tiff C. 
21 on Friday, Nov. 20 a lot of sentimental value. McGow-Nicole-Rock+Roomies­
more information. for Thanksgiving. Will share costs & 
(That is Cup Nite @ midnite If you found it, please give me Pozer-NOT Tobi TOE-Bay! C U next driving. Eric x1200 
All WORDPROCESSING services. for all you real drinkers) 
I
a call. Thank you for saving the TICKETS semester, Have great holiday 
Andy 234-8789 Need a ride to Chicago on Fri. 
remnant of my childhood. & think of me! I miss you. Vi Amo 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!111!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!! sempre Marisa I can help pay gas and tolls. @@@@@@@@@@ 
Call Jon @ 233-8522 and leave Feel the sun,Mike 283-1161 
a message. Feel the sand, Need ride for 2 to Cleveland area Help Help Help Help Ciao belle! Jo-Laurie, Jo-Lizzy, 

ILOST & FOUND I 
See the coast, for Thanksgiving. Right off 1-80 Jo-Kelli, Jo-Boob, Dawny, Cheryl 
Typist Needed Enjoy the culture, Will pay gas and tolls. Call Jill LOST: Old St. Louis Browns hat. FOUND: key, Saturday on way to and everyone. Can't wait to see you
X3705 stadium in front of library pool in Jan. -Gina
Fri AM 

$ $ All this and more for those 
Gray with Brown brim and yellow x4828 
289-3698 who buy my USC GAs. HeyYoul 
Friday the 13th is your lucky day! 

Only 47 days ... can you believe it! lettering. Might have been lost near LOST: Sister's N.J. license on B.C. NOTf!E DAME GLEE CLUB
Ride to Kansas City for Go to CALl & not South Bend I hear yall
wkend name-Meghan Shannon CHRISTMAS CONCERT 
Thanksgiving Break. $$ for gas with the help of my GAs. 
Stepan. Very high sentimental REWARD! call Joellenx4814 December 13 in the J.A.C.C. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY Clarke 234-9433 Call Maureen 284-5156 
JOE PAROLINI!!! value. Call Wally x3443. LOST LOST LOST Kara, Kara, Kara, Kara L 
CLEVELAND for Thanksgiving? @2@2@2@2@2@ It's about time .... 
Twenty-one shots are coming $$Reward$$ A cheap but special gold heart I can't wait till Friday nJght.
Help!! I need a ride! Will pay for 
gas and tolls. Megan 283-3614 Selling 4 USC tix John 277-5415 your way tonight-charm with a koala bear on each 
you're going to pay your dues. side. PLEASE return. Lost b/w I want STUFF and I want it NOW. 
·usc· usc·usc·usc·usc· We love you, Joey! ·Need a ride to Purdue in West Walsh and Pasquerilla. 
Lafayette this weekend. Call If you know anyone who wants to Molly, Bethy, Katy & Kirsten. 
LOST: I LOST MY DORM KEYS CALL All at 2316 
P.S. DON'T FORGET YOUR Cricky, Kathy, and Christina-­
Andrea at 2721. Will help with gas watch NO kick UC's butt over 
and tolls. Thanksgiving, I have FOUR (4) SAFETY. 
IF YOU FIND SOME KEYS CALL LOST! SENTIMENTAL WATCH ! hope you three have super T­
GA's that must be unloaded ASAP; 
(GOLD/SILVER) IN THE JEWELRY giving Breaks! I promise we'll go out
DIVING COACH NEEDED FOR these are great seats-let's help HEY LA­
X1745: REWARD DEPT. OF HAMMES BOOKSTORE tons before Christmas! Have a 
HIGH SCHOOL TEAM each other! Call Matt x2124 
AROUND 2-3 PM ON TUESDAY, great day-­
Watch out for the RED-BIRD1111!! NOV. 10, 1992. PLEASE CONTACT SUBSTANTIAL SALARY 
FOR MORE INFO FOR SALE -2 U.S.C. TIX CALL 
NO SECURITY -VERY Pegasus
CALL BECKY 283-2689 TED-513-492-5190 heh-heh-heh 
IMPORTANT!! 
The Observer Wednesday, November 18
Page 12 

..... ..... ........................ ..... ................. 'l\
................... 
, ~ '~ : : : :: :: : :: :: :: :: : '~}l ..
c::>""\S .~ ............................................ ,,< A~ ~.te» ~....=;.. -~~ ~ 0 "·~-'<H • ••••• : =.....· : .....:; ··.. L.... L...: :.....:; ; ; ··.. L...: ····O·""' w ~ "II' ~
-

NHL STANDINGS NBA STANDINGSNFL TEAM SlATS 
WALES CONFERENCE EASTERN CONFERENCE TOTAL YARDAGE AVERAGE PER GAllE Patrick Dlvlalon AUantlc Dlvlalon 
AMERICAN FOOTIIAU CONFERENCE
AMERICAN FOOTBAU CONFERENCE w L T Pta GF GA Home Away Dlv w L Pet G8 OFFENSE OFFEN8E P1118burgh 12 4 3 27 87 69 7-{)-2 5-4-1 3-0-1 N-York 4 2 .867 
y... ....... ,...
Yarda Ruah Paaa New Jersey 10 7 0 20 60 60 5-4.() 5-3.() 7-4-0 Miami 3 2 .600 112 136.11 266.4
BuHalo 31113 13511 2554 Bullalo 3111.3 NY Rangers 9 7 2 20 67 65 7·3-1 2-4-1 8-3.() Orlando 3 2 .600 112 Miami 3703 1018 2885 MIMI! Philadelphia 7 8 3 17 75 75 5-2-1 2-6-2 3-5-1 N-Jersey 3 3 .500 1
370.3 101.8 218.5 Houa1on 3&46 1034 2612 Houalon 3114.1 103.4 211.2 NY lalandels 7 9 1 15 63 66 4·3.() 3-8-1 5-8-0 Boston 2 4 .333 2 Plllburgh 3262 1368 1894 Plllburgh 321.2 131.1 1111.4 Washington 7 10 1 15 58 80 3-4-1 4-8-0 1-7.() Philadelphia 1 3 .250 2 San Diego 3242 1133 2109 San Dlago 324.2 113.3 Adama Dlvlalon Washington 1 5 .167 3
210.11 183.3
New YOlk Jela 3051 1218 1833 New YOlk .lela 306.1 121.8 Montreal 13 4 2 28 88 81 ~1-1 4-3-1 2-2.() Central Dlvlalon 
211.3 108.2 171.1 
Kansas City 2785 1112 1873 Kansas City 278.5 111.2 187.3 Boston 9 5 2 20 70 59 5-2-2 4-3.() 3-2.() Milwaukee 4 2 .867 1 Cleveland 275.11 90.8 185.3 
L.A. Raidera 2813 1052 1781 L.A. Raidels Quebec g 5 4 22 84 89 5-2-1 4-3-3 3-1-1 Chicago 5 1 .833 
Cleveland 27511 906 1853 BuHalo 8 7 2 18 91 89 7-1.() 1-6-2 5-1-1 Indiana 3 2 .600 1112 Den-2710 989 1741 Den-271.0 98.9 174.1 Hartford 3 13 1 7 42 75 1-8-1 2-5.() 2-4-1 Cleveland 3 3 .500 2 Clnclnnall 24811 1227 1262 Clncl11nall 248.9 122.7 121.2 Ottawa 1 16 1 3 38 98 1-5-1 0.11-0 1-6-1 Atlanta 2 3 .400 2112 New England 2480 823 1837 New England 246.0 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Detroh 2 3 .400 2112
82.3 183.7 
lndianapalll 2414 158 1759 lndlanapolia 241.4 85.6 175.8 Norda Dlvlalon Charlone 2 4 .333 3 Seattle 1889 913 959 Seattle 186.9 91.3 85.8 w L T Pta GF GA Home Away Dlv WESTERN CONFERENCE DEFENSE
DEFENSE Chicago 9 7 3 21 84 57 8-2-3 3-5.() 5-3-1 Mldwaat Dlvlalon Yarde Ruah Paaa
Yarda Ruah Paaa TOIOnlo II 5 3 21 56 48 8-2-2 3-3-1 4-3-1 w L Pet GB San Diego 2545 780 1785 San Diego 254.5 78.0 178.5 Delroll 10 8 0 20 72 81 8-2.() 4-6-0 2-3.() Utah 3 2 .600 
158.7
LA. Raiders 2684 1077 1597 L.A. Ralderl 266.4 107.7 Tllfl1l8 Bay 9 II 2 20 72 84 8-4.() 3-5-2 4-3-1 Houston 2 2 .500 112 Kar&aaCity 2680 985 1685 Kansas City 268.0 98.5 169.5 Mlnnaaola 8 I 2 18 55 10 5-3-2 3-5.() 5-2.() Mlnnaaola 2 3 .400 1 103.7 187.3
Houston 2710 1037 1673 Houston 271.0 St. l.oiM 8 10 3 15 13 77 5-4-2 Hl·1 1-7-1 DaMa. 1 3 .250 1112 Seattle 27111 1206 1585 Seattle 279.1 120.6 158.5 Smythe DlvlaiWt Denver 1 4 .200 2 BuHalo 21133 885 2068 BuHalo 293.3 86.5 208.8 Loa Angalaa 12 5 2 21 112 70 8-1.() 4-4-2 7-3-1 San Antonio 1 4 .200 2 Plllburgh 21168 -11173 Plllburgh 2116.8 99.5 197.3 Calgary 12 8 2 21 86 18 8-3.() 8-3-2 8-2-1 Paclftc Dlvlalon Miami 211711 8711 201111 Miami 2117.8 87.11 209.9 v-10 I 2 22 71 59 7-2-1 3-4-1 8-2-1 Portland 5 0 1.000 ­New YOlk .lela 3116 1266 1850 New YOlk Jets 311.5 126.5 185.0 E~ I g 3 15 56 72 ~1 3-8-2 2-8-0 Phoenix 4 1 .BOO 1 Ca.v.land 31111 1017 2152 Cleveland 316.9 101.7 215.2 Winnipeg 5 12 1 11 80 71 4-3-1 1-a-0 2-7-1 Seattle 4 1 .800 1 Den-3361 1217 20M Denver 335.1 126.7 208.4 San Joaa 3 14 1 7 50 113 2·7.0 1-7·1 1-&-0 Sacramento 4 2 .667 1112 
New England 331111 1251 2141 New England 3311.9 125.8 214.1 8aturcMy'a aa­Tuaaday'a Gamaa LA !.akers 3 3 .500 2112 Indianapolis 347.8 125.4 222.2 Golden Stale 2
illcllanllpolla 34'1W 1254 2222 Minnaaola 3, c:tiQeo 0 Toronlo w. Quabac at Haml•on, Ont., 7:40p.m. 4 .333 3112 
~ 3611 12211 2382 Clnclnnall 3511.1 122.9 236.2 Toronto4, llollan 1 LA Cllppara 2 4 .333 3112
Bullalo 111 f'llllburgh. 7:40p.m. Montreal at on-. 7:40 p.rn

NAnoNAL FOOTIIAU CONFERENCE Detroit 2. Harfold 0 Saturday'• Gamaa Chicago Ill Delrolt, 7:40 p.rn
OFFENSE NAnONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Quebec 6, New York Rangers 3 New York 85. Boston 80 Yarde Ruah OFFENSE New Jersey 4, Washington 3, OT New Jersey 124, Orlando 113


,... 

Winnipeg at Tllfl1)8 Bay, 7l40 p.m. San Francilco 4083 1555 2506 Yarde Ruah Paaa N-YOlk Islanders 7, BuHaJo 5 Miami 104. Char1otte 115
Loa Angelea at San .lou, 10:40 p.m. 

Ddas 3538 12811 22411 San Francillco 408.3 155.5 250.8 Philadephia 4. Montreal 3. OT Indiana 104. Detroit 100
Wadneaday'a Gamaa ChlcaQO 3442 BIA!alo va. New Jersey aJ Haml•on. Ont.. 7:40 p.m. 
121111 2143 Dallas 353.8 128.9 224.9 Calgary 5, T arTll8 Bay 3 Phoenix 108. Mln1188ota 101 Mlnneaola 3162 1174 1988 Chicago 344.2 129.9 214.3 St. Louis 4, Winnipeg 2 Chicago 117, Denver 84 
St Louil at Hartlord, 7:40 p.rn 

GIM!l Bay 3109 1003 2108 Mln1188ota 316.2 117.4 198.8 Los Angeles 6, Edmonton 2 Houston 93, Sen Antonio 87 
Mlnn.ota 111 Waahlngton, 7:40 p.rn 

Tlllfll& Bay 3098 1053 2035 Green Bay 310.9 100.3 210.8 Vancouver 5, San Jose 2 Dallas 113, Atlanta 1 Ofi
Vancouver a1 Edmonton, 11:40 p.m. 

Atlanta 3077 799 2278 TarJ"4)8 Bay 308.8 105.3 203.5 Sunday'• Garnaa Utah 124, LA Clippers 104 New Orleans 3058 971 2087 Atlanta 307.7 79.9 227.8 Philadelphia 7, Ottawa 2 Seattle 133, Saaamento 117 Washington 3028 1064 1962 New Orleans 305.8 97.1 208.7 Chicago 2, M ln1188ota 1 Portland 130, Golden Stale 118 New Ycxk Giants 2991 1444 1547 Washington 302.6 108.4 198.2 Monday'• Gamaa Sunday'a Garnaa 
L.A. Rarra 29411 1019 1930 New YOlk Giants 299.1 144.4 154.7 Montreal 6, Boston 3 N-J8f8ey 111, Washington 104 Philadelphia 21114 1386 1528 LA. Rarra 294.11 101.9 193.0 St Lou ill 2, Toronto 2, tie M Uwaukee 115, Denver 98 Phoenix 2874 845 2029 Philadelphia 291.4 138.6 152.8 Vancouver 6, Los Angeles 3 Sacramento 109, CkMIIand 107 Detroit 2743 826 1917 Phoenix 267.4 84.5 202.9 LA !.akers 105, Golden State 102 DEFENSE Detroit 274.3 82.6 1111.7 Monday'a Gamaa
TRANSACTIONS
Yarde Ruah Paaa DEFENSE Phoenix 117, Seattle 108 Dalas 2510 869 1621 Yarde Ruah Paaa Portland 109, New YOlk 94 New Orleans 25112 1075 1517 DaUas 251.0 86.11 162.1 nU\<IUcY Tueaday'a Gamaa
BASKETBALL
Washington 2718 1026 1690 New Orleans 259.2 107.5 151.7 NatiON! Neclley LHeua Utah a1 N-Jersey, 7:30p.m. 
NaUonal Baakelball AnoclaUon
Philadelphia 2737 905 1832 Washington 271.8 102.8 169.0 BOSTON BRUIN8-8ent Glen Murray, right Boston a1 Washlnglon. 7:30p.m.
CLEVELAND CAVALIERS-Placed Brad
Mlnl188ola 2757 1001 1759 Philadelphia 273.7 90.5 183.2 wing, to P-ldallca. ol lila American Hockey Golden Stale a1 Miami. 7:30 p.m. 
Daugherty, center, on the Injured llat. Activated Jay 
GIM!l Bay 3037 1137 1900 Mln1188ota 275.7 100.1 175.6 i.Ngue. Called up Jozlll St~. 1-1111. from Dallas a1 Charlotte. 7:30 p.rn
Guldlnger, center. 
TarJ"4lll Bay 3087 1078 2009 Green Bay 303.7 113.7 190.0 P-ldanca. Denver at Indiana. 7:30p.m.
FOOTBALL
New YOlk Giants 3112 1069 2043 TarJ"4)8 Bay 308.7 107.8 200.9 NEW YORK ISLANOER8-CaMed up Travla Mllwaul<ea a! Atlanta, 8 p.m. 
NaUonal Football Laague
Chicago 3208 1184 2044 New YOlk Giants 311.2 108.9 204.3 G..,, -·from Capital Dlatrlct o1 lila American Chicago at MlmMOta. 8 p.rn
NEW YORK JETS-WIMid A.B. Brown, running
Detroit 3282 1307 1975 Chicago 320.8 116.4 204.4 Hockey League. Aaalgnad Tom Kurvara, Sacramento a1 Houaton, 8:30p.m.
back. Signed Johnny Hac:lor, running 11-*.
San Francisco 3303 856 2447 Detroit 328.2 130.7 197.5 delenaarrwn, and Marty Mclnnla. forward, to Cleveland a1 San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. 
WASHINGTON REOSKINS-Piaoad Martin
L.A. Rarra 3333 1369 1944 San F ranclsco 330.3 85.6 244.7 Capital District. N-YOlk a1 S911111e, 10 p.m. Phoenix 3425 12111 2208 LA. Rarra 333.3 138.9 184.4 Mayr-, --*'-*. on Injured -·Signed ST. LOUIS BlUES-Sent Kevin Mlaltm. C<~ntar, Detroh a! LA CUppera. 10:30 p.m. 
MlcMJ Wahlnglon, oornalbU. o11 _,_. from lo Peoria ollhe . . . . . . ­
220.6 Atlanta 367.9 128.4 2311.5 ~~~­
Atlanta 38711 1284 23115 Phoenix 342.5 121.9 

Classes that will reooen ANTH 329 02 4165 ENGL 319B 01 4224 HIST 359A 01 4307 PHIL 246 01 2483 at 7:00 J2.m. 11L18{92 ANTH 336 01 4166 ENGL 319E 01 4216 HIST 365A 01 4290 PHIL 247 01 4338 ANTH 389 01 3934 ENGL 325 01 1021 HIST 391 01 1938 PHIL 248 01 4030 ACCT 232 12 1799 ANTH 454 01 3454 ENGL 340 01 1531 HIST 399 01 3356 PHIL 261 01 2765 ACCT 380 03 1203 ARCH 598B 01 0420 ENGL 373E 01 4217 HIST 403 01 4289 PHIL 261 03 2395 AFAM 260 01 4617 ARCH 598F 01 0269 ENGL 379C 01 4225 HIST 403A 01 4291 PHIL 261 04 4725 AMST 334 01 0316 ARHI 169 01 3150 ENGL 384A 01 3764 HIST 415A 01 4308 PHIL 264 01 2181 AMST 391 01 3440 ARHI 462 01 3647 ENGL 390B 01 4226 HIST 440A 01 4310 PHIL 265 01 0387 ARHI 462 01 3647 ARHI 496 01 3654 ENGL 412C 01 4227 HIST 454 01 3537 PHYS 222L 02 2582 BA 490 07 0663 ARST 134S 01 0146 ENGL 414B 01 4713 HIST 454A 01 4311 PHYS 222L 04 1524 CAPP 361 01 1683 ARST 150K 01 1154 ENGL 415 01 4721 HIST 460 01 1025 PHYS 222L OS 2730 ECON 456 01 4210 ARST 212S 01 2356 ENGL 416) 01 4634 HIST 460A 01 4312 PSY 342L 01 1981 EE 242L 02 0162 ARST 232S 01 2361 ENGL 422 01 1022 HIST 483A 01 4295 PSY 375 01 4360 ENGL 201A 01 4214 ARST 246S 01 3464 ENGL 426F 01 4230 HIST 699 01 1122 PSY 403 01 4362 ENGL 384A 01 3764 ARST 326S 01 0509 ENGL 433B 01 3784 liPS 493 01 4562 PSY 404 01 4363 ENGL 390B 01 4226 BA 362 01 2693 ENGL 440 01 4233 liPS 507 01 3422 PSY 405 01 4364 ENGL 412C 01 4227 BA 391 01 0393 ENGL 455B 01 4234 LAW 605 01 2364 PSY 441 01 4365 FIN 231 04 1174 BA 391 02 1296 ENGL 461C 01 4236 LAW 631F 01 0555 PSY 452 01 1130 FIN 231 11 1818 BA 464 01 3111 ENGL 462B 01 4237 LAW 676A 01 2673 PSY 456 01 3044 FIN 231 12 1714 BA 490 01 0677 ENGL 465 01 2096 LAW 685 01 0307 RLST 213 20 9520 HIST 403A 01 4291 BA 490 03 1994 ENGL 513B 01 4220 LAW 695 01 1449 RLST 213 22 9522 MUS 222 01 1357 BA 490 04 2439 ENGL 522A 01 4218 LAW 695 02 1668 RLST 240 24 9524 MUS 225 01 0278 BA 490 07 0663 FIN 231 01 2165 LAW 695 03 1459 RLST 240 26 9526 PHIL 203 01 1131 BIOS 344L 02 1305 FIN 231 02 2447 LAW 695 04 1675 RLST 251 32 9532 PHIL 244 01 0022 BIOS 407L 01 0375 FIN 231 03 3023 LAW 695 OS 1831 RLST 261 36 9536 PHIL 261 03 2395 BIOS 411L 01 2234 FIN 231 04 1174 LAW 695 06 3201 RLST 306 38 9538 THEO 250 01 0066 BIOS 411L 03 2308 FIN 231 05 2938 LLRO 533 01 4375 RLST 350 40 9540 THEO 252 01 0783 BIOS 412L 02 0587 FIN 231 06 0751 MARK 374 01 0533 RLST 351 42 9542 THEO 267 02 4404 CAPP 316 01 2763 FIN 231 07 2932 MARK 374 02 0650 ROFR 499 01 0390 THTR 135 49 9749 CAPP 361 01 1683 FIN 231 08 0767 MARK 381 01 1722 ROSP 236 01 4382 CHEM 118L 07 2280 FIN 231 09 1011 MARK 492 01 3544 ROSP 432 01 4383 Closed sections as of CHEM 334L 01 0492 FIN 231 10 3091 MARK 495 01 3828 ROSP 499 01 1701 

7:oo 12.m. llLl 7L92 CHEM 334L 02 1556 FIN 231 11 1818 MATH 311 01 4525 soc 220 01 2031 ACCT 232 02 3268 CLAS 423 01 3725 FIN 231 12 1714 MATH 324 01 3285 soc 232 01 0280 ACCT 232 03 2862 CLAS 442 01 1817 FIN 360 OS 3250 MATH 336 02 3148 soc 234 01 3556 ACCT 232 05 2671 COTH 211 01 4192 FIN 360 07 4418 MBA 600 01 0080 soc 379 01 4395 ACCT 232 06 1686 COTH 413 01 1014 FIN 361 02 0824 MBA 606 01 4428 soc 415 01 3659 ACCT 232 09 2871 COTH 435 01 4196 FIN 361 03 2786 MBA 608 01 4672 soc 419 01 3857 ACCT 232 10 1791 COTH 436 01 4197 FIN 361 07 3096 MBA 624 01 0876 soc 421 01 3308 ACCT 232 12 1799 COTH 440 01 4696 FIN 370 03 0840 MBA 625 01 3406 soc 424 01 4729 ACCT 232 13 0120 CSE 322L 01 4110 FIN 470 01 0790 MGT 499 01 4425 soc 430 01 4566 ACCT 372 03 1447 ECON 421 01 0538 FIN 473 01 0215 MI 309 01 3534 THEO 235 01 1755 ACCT 380 03 1203 ECON 422 01 4209 FIN 475 01 2739 Ml 403 01 4594 THEO 235 02 2106 ACCT 380 04 1676 ECON 430 01 1383 FIN 476 01 3407 MI 433 01 3785 THEO 243 01 1513 ACCT 479 01 3081 ECON 434 01 3597 FIN 478 01 1884 MSA 546 01 4438 THEO 250 01 0066 AERO 441L 01 2859 ECON 450 01 3745 GE 313 01 1443 MSA 547 01 1815 THEO 252 01 0783 AFAM 204 01 4695 ECON 456 01 4210 GE 364 01 4148 MUS 220 01 3037 THEO 254 01 1118 AFAM 260 01 4617 ECON 498 01 1768 GOVT 316F 01 4578 MUS 220 02 0899 THEO 262 01 0786 AFAM 384A 01 3765 EE 242L 02 0162 GOVT 342T 03 1194 MUS 220 03 3252 THEO 265 01 0214 AFAM 389 01 3935 EE 354L 03 4485 GOVT 342T 04 0970 MUS 220 04 4138 THEO 267 01 4403 AFAM 419Z 01 4698 EE 498G 01 4478 GOVT 343T 04 2197 MUS 222 01 1357 THEO 267 02 4404 AFAM 420 01 4620 ENGL 20IA OI 42I4 GOVT 404 01 0981 MUS 225 01 0278 THEO 290 01 4406 AFAM 454 01 3536 ENGL 201B OI 4215 GOVT 433 01 4258 MUS 226 01 0032 THEO 396 01 1519 AFAM 479 OI 4084 ENGL 204 01 4063 GSC 493F 01 4700 NSCI 412 01 3192 THEO 400 01 4746 AMST 334 01 0316 ENGL 300C 01 4223 GSC 498 01 1240 PHIL 203 01 1131 THTR 135 49 9749 AMST 391 01 3440 ENGL 301 01 0648 HIST 309 01 3535 PHIL 239 01 1464 THTR 276 53 9753 AMST 493 01 4161 ENGL 301C 01 0966 HIST 309A 01 4299 PHIL 241 01 1472 THTR 377 58 9758 ANTH 328 OI 3362 ENGL 3I4B OI 3756 HIST 327A 01 4302 PHIL 242 01 0717 THTR 410 59 9759 ANTH 329 01 4164 ENGL 316F 01 4124 H1ST 357A 01 4288 PHIL 244 01 0022 



ENGL 317C 01 3726 HIST 359 01 4306 PHIL 245 01 3548 
...-----------------------­
Wednesday, November 18,1992 The Observer page 13 
Rockies, Marlins take their pick 
NEW YORK (AP) -Bryan Harvey, Charlie none of the crazed fans who curse and cheer Hayes and Jack Armstrong were among the more each pick from the balcony. prominent players picked in the first two rounds It was all business as the Rockies. looking for Tuesday as the Colorado Rockies and Florida power hitters to play at Mile Higli Stadium and Marlins began the expansion draft by going in experienced pitchers to keep the ball down, 

different directions. 
loaded up right away on current major leaguers. 
THROUGH BOUND TWO 
1, (1) David Nied, rhp, AIL

Colorado's first 11 picks, including Hayes, Reed, Jerald Clark, Kevin Reimer, Alex Cole, 
2, (3) Charlie Hayes, 3b, NY(A) 

Darren Holmes and Joe Girardi have all played in 
3, (5) Darren Holmes, rhp, MIL 

the majors. There was a chance, however, that 
4, (7) Jerald Clark, of, SD 

Dave Reed and Reimer would be traded once the draft 
5, (9) Kevin Reimer, of, TEX 

was completed with each team having 36 
6, (11) Eric Young, 2b, LA

players. 
Twelve of Colorado's 13 choices in the first 
7, (13) Jody Reed, 2b. BOS round have been in the big leagues, combining 8, (15) Scott Aldred, lhp, DEI for a total of 2,794 games in the majors. The av­
9, (17) Alex Cole, of, PIT 

erage age of the Rockies' first-rounders for 
10, (19) Joe Girardi, c, CHl(N)

opening day 1993 is 26.7, and only five of the 
11, (21) Willie Blair, rhp, HOU

players will be 25 and under by then. 
"Just throw a lot of sinkers and keep the ball 12, (23) Jay Owens, c, MIN down," advised Holmes, who pitched for . 13, (25) Andy Ashby, rhp, PHI Milwaukee's Triple-A Denver team last season. · 14, (28) Fred Benavides, ss, CIN The Marlins, meanwhile, began an immediate 
15, (30) Roberto Mejia, 2b, LA

youth movement. 
16, (32) Doug Bochller, rhp, MON

Of Florida's 13 picks in the opening round, only six have been in the majors, combining for 622 17, (34), lance Painter, lhp, SO games. They took 10 players who will be 25 and 18, (36) Butch Henry, lhp, HOU under by next April, for an average age of 24.6 19, (38), Ryan Hawblitzel, rhp, CHI(N) on opening day. 
20, (40) Vinnie Castilla, ss, AIL

The only odd name in the Marlins' lot was 
21, (42) Brett Merriman, rhp, CAL

Harvey, who led the American League with 46 
22, (44), Jim Tatum, 3b, MIL

saves in 1991, but missed most of the last year with an elbow injury. The California Angels owed 23, (46) Kevin Ritz, rhp, DEI him $11.25 million for the next three years. 24, (48) Eric Wedge, c-1b, BOS ''I'm just going down there and if I get a chance 
25, (50) Keith Shepherd, rhp, PHI 

to save some games, I'm going to do my best 

26, (52) Calvin Jones, rhp, SEA

job," Harvey said. 

Reds get Mitchell from Mariners 
NEW YORK (AP) -Kevin Mitchell, a disappointment for Seattle last season, will be traded from the Mariners to the Cincinnati Reds for pitcher ~~orm Charlton on Tuesday night, The Associated Press has learned. 
The deal was to be an­nounced after the expansion draft was completed. No deals could be announced until after the Florida Marlins and Col­orado Rockies completed three rounds of picks. 
Several trades involving the expansion teams were expected after the draft ended, estimated for about 9 p.m. EST. But the 
We'reLooking ForAFewMore Characters. 
\X'hat makes a career in advertising so exciting? Come and meet the Notre Dame/St. Mary's gang from Leo Burnett for some insight into a media career at one of the world's largest advertising agencies. All students welcome to join us t()r one of our two on-campus presentations. 
Wednesday, November 18, 3:30p.m. • Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall (SMC) 
Wednesday, Novt.'"mber 18, 8:00p.m. • Main Lounge, University Club 
I 
LEO BURNETT COMPANY, INC. 

Mitchell-for-Charlton deal, confirmed by sources close to the trade, did not involve either of the new teams. 
Mitchell, 31 in January, led the major leagues with 109 home runs from 1989-91 with the San Francisco Giants. He was traded with pitcher Mike Remlinger to Seattle last winter for pitchers Dave Burba, Mike Jackson and Bill Swift, and the Mariners hoped he would break loose at the Kingdome. 
Instead, nagged by injuries and bulging physique, he hit only nine home runs. He batted .286 with 67 RBis. The Mariners had expected some-


Chalk 
continued from page 16 
fill some holes before the start of the season. But how can a collection of these rejects help such raw talent compete with established National League organizations who lost just three fringe players? 
As public relations experts, general managers Dave Dom-
GREEI<S & CLUBS 
RAISE A COOL 
'1000 
IN JUST ONE WEEKI 
PLUS $1000 FOR 11IE 
MEMBER WHO CALlS! 
No obligation. No cost You also get a FREE HEADPHONE RADIO just for calling 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 

thing like 40 homers and 100 RBis. 
Mitchell apologized, sort of, after the season to Mariners fans. and promised to do better next year. Now, he'll have to do it for the Reds, back in the Na­tional League. 
Mitchell was the NL's Most Valuable Player in 1989. He hit 47 homers with 125 RBis for the Giants that year. 
The Reds, under owner Marge Schott, have been cost conscious in recent years. Still, with the opportunity to get a slugger, they will spend $7 mil­lion for two years on Mitchell. 
browski (Florida) and Al Harizen (Denver) will try and convince everyone of sincere optimism for the upcoming season. 
But history tends to repeat it­self. In 1962, the expansion Mets lost 120 games. 
Seven years later, the Mets won the World Series. 
Both of this year's expansion teams will inevitably suffer through a few seasons of grow­ing pains. But fans in Denver and Miami must patiently await the emergence of their sleepers where, come 1995, football will not be the only game in town. 
And who knows? Other picks, such as failed-Met Chris Don­nels and Ryan Bowen (10. 70 ERA for the Astros last season), are valuable projects who 
might  benefit  from  new  
coaches  and  a  new atmo­ 
sphere.  

Rotisserie fanatics tend to forget, patience is a virtue. 


The Observer 
is now a~cepting applications for the following paid position: 
Business Copy Editor 
Please submit a personal statement and resume to David Kinney . Contact David at 239-5303 for more information. 

page 14 The Observer Wednesday, November 18,1992 
Jordan's 32 leads Bulls past Wolves 
(AP) Michael Jordan scored 32 points, Horace Grant added 24 and Scottie Pippen had 12 assists -all in the first three quarters -carrying the Chicago Bulls to their fifth con­secutive victory, 124-103 over the Minnesota Timberwolves on Tuesday night. 
It was the second straight 
blowout win for the two-time NBA WRAP d e f e n ding -:-----:----:-N B A 
champions, whose first four victories were by a combined 17 points. 
Chuck Person had 26 points and 12 rebounds for the Tim­berwolves, now 0-7 against Chicago since joining the league in 1989-90. Christian Laettner, Minnesota's No. 1 draft choice, sprained the middle finger of his right hand early in the third period but returned and finished with 17 points. 
Jordan has led the Bulls in scoring in each of their seven games. Grant, who made 10 of 12 shots, came within four of his career scoring high. 
The game's outcome was never in question, as Pippen's fastbreak layup capped a 14-4 run to start the game. Jordan's 3-pointer made it 27-12 late in 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

ICEBERG DEBATE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 
Interested in working on the Executive Committee for the 1993 Student Government Campus-Wide Student Debates? No Experience Necessary--Just Interest and Desire to get involved! If you are interested and would like more info, drop a note in Student Government (Iceberg Debates) or call Amy at 283-4899 this week! 
the first period. 

Bullets 101, Celtics 97 
Harvey Grant matched his career high with 34 points, and the Washington Bullets fended off a late Boston rally to beat the struggling Celtics 101­97 Tuesday night. 
Reggie Lewis and Xavier Mc­Daniel each scored 17 points for the Celtics, whose 2-5 start is the worst since going 1-6 at the outset of the 1978-79 sea­son -the year before Larry Bird joined the team. 
The Celtics trailed 88-82 with 
7:18 left, but Kevin McHale hit a hook in the lane to start a 6-0 run that tied it. The Bullets led 90-89 when Grant hit a running jumper in the lane, but Lewis and McHale scored to give Boston a 93-92 advantage with 
2:03 to go. 

Pacers 128, Nggts 98 
Rik Smits enjoyed an­other big game against the Denver Nuggets, scoring 27 points as the Indiana Pacers rolled to their fourth straight victory, 128-98 Tuesday night. 
The Pacers have won the last seven meetings between the two teams over four-seasons. 
The Nuggets have lost five straight games, four of them on the road. 
Smits, the Pacers' 7-foot-4 center, has had the top three scoring games of his career against the Nuggets -34, 32 and 31 points. He got his points this time in just 23 minutes and also grabbed seven rebounds and blocked two shots. 
Reggie Miller added 17 points for Indiana, and Pooh Richard­son registered his first double­double as a Pacer with 15 points and 12 assists. 
Chris Jackson led the Nuggets with 23 points. Dikembe Mutombo and rookie LaPhonso Ellis had 17 apiece. 
Rockets 116, Kings 1 09 
Hakeem Olajuwon had 34 points, 10 rebounds and seven blocked shots Tuesday night, leading the Houston Rockets past the Sacramento Kings, 116-109. 
Olajuwon scored 15 points in the first quarter and 12 in the fourth period, when Houston's 20-point lead fell to 106-100 on Randy Brown's layup with 4:31 left. 
But Olajuwon scored eight 
see NBA!page 11 
EARN $2,000 + 
PRICES FOR STAY-NOT PER NIGHT! 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ,,.,SfQ9
FREE SPRING 
5 and 7 NIGHTS 
DAYTONA BEACH 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS


BREAK TRIPS! "·'"' 68 
PANAMA CITY BEACH ''""'S Bf
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

North America's #} STEAMBOAT ,,.,.,1129 
2, 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

Student Tour Operator MUSTANG ISLAND I seeking motivated students PORT ARANSAS ,,.,SfJ2 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

and organizations as campus HILTON HEAD ISLAND ,.,}f2f
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

representatives promoting 
FORT LAUDERDALE "om$f46 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS

Cancun or Daytona Beach! 
12th Annual Party!

Call 

TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS
1..800..365..4654 
1·800·321~5911 
i Fall






!Classic 
When the weather turns chilly, it's still Birkenstock®time. Add a pairofyour favorite socks and let the Original Contoured F ootbed support and cradle your feet. Birkenstock~ The shape of comfort.TM 
~~ 
f/P~Wtwh
SHOE REPAIR State Rd. 23 & Ironwood 273-2124 



Seniors Friday Lunch 
12 2 
111USt be 21 
r----------------------------------------­
.1_
Today II. 
Wednesday, November 18, 1992 page 15
Brought to you by DOMINO'S 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
BILL WATIERSON 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 What Perot has made
1 Bat's hangout 33 At sixes and 
5 Featherhead 
sevens I Film having 37 On -with several sequels (equal) 
14 Biblical race of 38 Stick-on item giants 31 "Cruellest 15 Nagy of month" agcy. 
Hungary 40 "-ofMy 18 Model. Dreams" 17 Indefinite 41 Party ending 11 Like a pigskin 42 Undecided 20 Date cultivated 45 Ambush 
47 It's used in 

in Egypt tobacco curing 21 Holds back; 48 Caravansary
demurs 
P. f.tt. 41 Rave's partner 23 lpe 1 mg 51 Casual 24 Santa's lump for greetings a brat 54 One who 
26 Predator's pad explodes 27 Satyr's look vocally 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

sa Emissary eo A collectible 81 Waver 83 Extrinsic 84 Neck and neck 85 Ouse feeder 88 Cluttered up 87 Within: Comb. 
form 88 Where hoods get goods 
DOWN 
1 Bring on 2 Chronicle 3 Blows hot and 
cold 
4-out (managed barely) 
5 Tailor's concern 8 Famed horse or city 7Windowfor plants 8 It's behind the iris &Mob-scene 
participant 10 Edges 11 Couscous 
ingredient 12Diminish 13 Sounds at a "bull session" 18 Houston 
campus 22Falsegod 25 Ice ace, once 28 Long waiting 
periods, seemingly 



Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Call Now 

ND 271,0300 SMC 289,0033 
Valid at panicipating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. © 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 


29 Plaice or dace 30 Unresolved 31 User's accuser 32 A rival of Agatha 33 Pulitzer 
dramatist: 1953 34 Chime time 35 Locale for a 
stope or stulm 38 Leftover 42 River into Bay of 
the Seine 43 Geology term 
44"­
Attraction" 48Caesar's 
mourner 49 Copal or mastic so On a curved path 52Jobforan 
emcee 53 Very costly 
54 Thimblerig, e.g. 55 Pour out the whines 58"The Haj" 
author 57 Repetition 59 Happy 62 Haifa 
Broadway title 
Wednesday 

7:30 p.m. "Bop and Beyond," a night of combo jazz in three acts by Notre Dame jazz groups. Band building. Free admission. 8 p.m. Presentation/reception for all students interested in discovering career opportunities with Leo Burnett. Main Lounge, University Club. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
8:10 p.m. "The Richest Dead Man Alive!" by Theatre Grottesco. Washington Hall. Sponsored by Communication and Theatre. Admission. 


Sports 
page 16 Wednesday, November 18,1992 
JIM VOGL 
Chalk Talk 



it were up to him. 
"I would like to just play them this weekend, but that's not the way it is," said Holtz. 
Because of the off-date the Irish will have to have all of their preparation for the game done by Monday, since all of the players who will not travel will be going home on Tuesday. Nevertheless, the Irish will have to be ready. Holtz singled out All-American candidate Willie McGinest, an outside linebacker, as a player the Irish will have to neutralize if they are to be successful on offense. 
On the defensive side of the ball, the Irish will have to contain explosive wideout Curtis Conway, in addition to maintaining their sky-high intensity. Holtz has a plan as to how he will do this with the open date in mind. 
"A lot of the things we will do this week in practice will be against each other, one-on-one," said Holtz, "And if it goes the way I hope it will, there will be some pushing and shoving." 
see HOLTZ/page 11 
1-------------------1 subsided, Irish coach Lou Holtz took a 
Patience is a virtue when hunting for future stars 
With just a few blockbuster names being chosen in yesterday's Major League Baseball Expansion Draft, rotisserie fans are stumped. 
But three factors clearly distinguish fantasy baseball from baseball reality: money, the future and the free-agent market. 
With the availability of a host of (former) superstars, including two MVPs, two Cy Young winners, and four Rookies of the Year, fanatics figured the Florida Marlins and Colorado Rockies had a chance to build a competitor immediately. 
They licked their chops at the likes of Jose Lind, Ivan Calderon, Shawon Dunston, George Bell, Vince Coleman and Jack Morris. But remember the reason these players' and their current teams filed for divorce: economics. 
The Rockies did take a few young veterans. After signing free-agent first baseman Andres Galaraga on Monday, they took the Yankee's Charlie Hayes to fill their third-base position. They also took young outfielders Gerald Clark (Padres) and Alex Cole (Pirates). Colorado expects ex-Cub Joe Girardi to fit in behind the plate and nurture a young but talented pitching staff. 
But Colorado had definite trades in mind when they selected second­baseman Jody Reed and an ideal-DH, Kevin Reimer. Reed will go to the Dodgers for pitching phenom Rudy Saenez, while Reimer heads to Milwaukee for Dante Bichette. Bichette's upper cut should produce big numbers in Denver's light air, figures former Brewer hitting coach and Rockies' rookie manager Don Baylor. But Colorado's nucleus will be young and green. 
The Marlins expect to take more early bruises, patiently waiting for young prospects to develop. They constructed a decent infield, with raw Major Leaguers Jeff Conine (lB), Brett Barberie {2B), and Steve Decker {C). 
Ex-White Sox lefty Greg Hibbard, considered the prize of the draft, will now pitch on the North Side of the Windy City. The Cubs will send promising infielders Alex Arias and Gary Scott to Florida. The Marlins also selected outfielder Junior Felix, who just might stay, and pitcher Danny Jackson, who appears already packed for Philadelphia. 
The most bizarre trade involved shortstop involved Walt Weiss. The A's fished Wiess and tapped into the Marlins' surplus bullpen, but later reeled him back in another trade. 
While a cloud of trade rumors still loom, many wonder why the expansion clubs bypassed the big names as trade bait for contenders. The answer: the free agent market is already too flooded with over-priced veterans. The list of potential free agents includes about 120 names, easily the most ever. 
With this in mind, expansion teams anticipate picking up a number of quality players on the waiver wire to 
see CHALK/page 13 
Irish, Trojan defenses gain praise from Holtz 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 

Even though the euphoria of the Irish's last second victory over Penn State has 
moment at this week's press conference to reflect back on the emotional win. 
Looking back at the situation the Irish faced with fourth and goal at the four, Holtz says he has to give the credit to the team and the assistant coaches for the comeback. When the game was tied at nine, Holtz said he felt a sense of urgency on the sidelines, as he believed the team would answer the challenge. However, after Irv Smith's fumble around the fifty­yard-line, that feeling changed. 
"I really did not know what the team would do," noted Holtz, "But it was nice to win the game, it was very gratifying, of course." 
Soon thereafter the conversation turned to defense, particularly how the Irish defense responded to the explosive Penn State offense. 
"There were so many positives on defense," said Holtz, "Look at the blocked P.A.T., and the magnitude that it had, and the goal line stand was also critical." 
However, with the talk of defense came the subject Holtz dreaded talking about, the immense talent of the Southern Cal defense, which has allowed just 13 points in the second quarter, 24 in the fourth, and has recorded 46 sacks this year. Holtz expressed great concern over the Trojan defense, particularly their overall team speed. 
"They're as fast as any defense I have ever seen-bar none," commented Holtz. "From top to bottom, USC is the fastest team I've ever seen on film. 
"''m glad we're not playing them in a track meet." 
The Trojans face perennial foe UCLA this weekend, while the Irish have their second off-week of the season, though Coach Holtz would have it another way if 
Women's volleyball drops rematch with Louisville 
By DAN PIER 
Sports Writer 
With a rowdy home crowd rallying behind them, the Louisville Cardinals shocked the Notre Dame women's vol­leyball team last night. Louisville's 15-7, 9-15, 15-13, 15-12 victory dealt a blow to Notre Dame's NCAA Tournament hopes and boosted the Cardinals' chances. 
In game one, the Louisville defense forced Notre Dame into twelve hitting errors against just nine kills. The Irish recovered with an impressive .342 attack percentage in game two to even the match. 
Louisville took over from that point, however, using a balanced offense to topple their 21st-ranked foes. Tina Naehr finished the match with 15 kills, while Becky Verst added 14 and Shannon Misek 13. Misek had a match-high 27 digs. 
Notre Dame also produced a fine offensive effort from three players in a losing effort. Marilyn Cragin continued her past success against Louisville with 17 kills, Jessica Fiebelkorn had 16, and Christy Peters added 15. Despite the big numbers from those players, the overall Irish attack was less than efficient, with a percentage of .17 0 for the match. 
Notre Dame (27-6) is still expected to win this weekend's Midwest Collegiate Conference Tournament, thereby earning an automatic NCAA Tournament berth. The loss, however, could drop the team from the number four ranking in the NCAA Mideast region and hurt its seed in the NCAA. That drop will also damage Notre Dame's chances to earn an at-large bid in the event of an MCC upset. 
Louisville (22-8) is still a long shot for an at-large bid. 






