
The bserver 
VOL. XXV. NO. 44  FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1992  
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S  
NO will hold  a mock presidential election Nov. 2  

By EMILY HAGE News Writer 
Student Government and The Observer will cosponsor a mock presidential election on campus Monday, Nov. 2. 
This is the first mock election at Notre Dame, said Student Government President Greg Butrus. Butrus said he expects student participation to reflect the record voter registration in this election nationwide. 
New site for foreign study is in Chile 
By KENYA JOHNSON News Writer 
An eleventh site for a Notre Dame international program is being implemented next semester in Santiago, Chile, said Rev. Timothy Scully, assis­tant professor of government and international studies. 
"We have had a long standing relationship with the Catholic University of Chile," said Scully. "The Congregation of Holy Cross has been involved over there for more than fifty years. We thought it was about time for the students to experience Chile," he said. 
The university is the most distinguished in the southern hemisphere, according to Scully. 
"Being such a prestigious university, students can take a variety of classes, including sciences," he explained. "It's not limited to liberal studies like many of the other foreign programs," Scully added. 
The first group of students will ·arrive in Chile next semester, Feb. 15, 1993. Once in the country, the students will have a three week orientation in which they will have the op­portunity to refresh their Spanish, experience Chilean culture, and travel through the country, according to Scully. 
Originally, about· 50 students showed interest in the pro-
see CHILE/page 4 

to vote on Nov. 3. It's the most important thing you can do," said Setti. 
Setti predicts the results will be close on campus, with little support for Ross Perot from the student body. Setti said he ex­pects the faculty to vote mostly liberal, and the administration to be conservative. 
Setti said it will be interesting to see how Notre Dame students compare to college students nationwide, 61 percent of whom support Bill Clinton and 38 percent of whom favor George Bush. 
Butrus said he is curious to see which campaign tactics to­ward college students work best: Clinton and Gore's ap­pearance on MTV or Bush's let­ter in college newspapers like The Observer. 
The Student Government In­tellectual Life Department, which is organizing the event, is optimistic about student par-
see ELECTION/page 4 

********** 

ELECTION 192 
"This election has a lot to do with the issues. Students are interested in their employment opportunities and their future," said Butrus. 
The aim of the mock election is to see how conservative, lib­eral, or apathetic the Notre Dame community is, said sophomore Chris Setti, political 
awareness commissioner and organizer of the event. Absen­
• Campaign update/page 9 
tee ballot voting and voting at home make it hard to deter­mine the political preferences on campus. "Voting is the most scientific poll," said Butrus, 
Setti said they also hope to 
"'encourage voting in the actual election on Nov. 3. "If you vote once, vote twice. It's important 
This serene fall view of the fall foliage is a common sight campuswide. Yet, once winter approaches no leaves will block the view of the sky. 
ROTC members will spend Halloween servicing city's underprivileged children 
By KENYA JOHNSON News Writer 
Members of the Arnold Air Society of the Notre Dame Air Force ROTC program will spend their Halloween afternoon servicmg underprivileged children of South Bend. 
The "field day" planned by the Arnold Air Society will bring an array of events to un­derprivileged, primarily home­less children. 
"We're going to have a good time with some great kids, while doing service," said Air Society member Sean Keene. "Most of these children were looking at a pretty bleak Hal­loween, but now we can change that," he added. 
A little over 80 children from the South Bend community will flock to Notre Dame on Satur­day. The children will come from the three institutions, the Center for the Homeless, St. Hedwig Parish, La Casa De Amistad Youth Center, and from the Northeast side neigh­borhood. 
Most of the children are ele­mentary school students rang­ing from second to sixth grade. 
"Not all of the children are homeless," said Andrea Fisk, a member of the Arnold Air So­ciety. "We want to make sure we don't ignore the underprivi­leged children. They need as­sistance too," she said. 
The field day will have a "bouncy moonwalk air-play­ground," said Fisk. In addition, there will be face painting, bobbing for apples, arts and crafts activities, basketball and dodgeball. Not only will the children play basketball, but they will·be able to meet and receive autographs from Notre Dame basketball players, ac­cording to Keene. 
There will also be perfor­mances by members of the Irish Guard squad, the Notre Dame Marching Band and the Air Force Honor Guard team. 
Nationally, the Arnold Air Society is conducting events stemming from the theme, youth. 
"This is by far going to be our biggest project, but we will continue things like tutoring and visiting the children in the community," said Keene. Fisk anticipates two or three more events throughout the year. 
The day was made possible by generous contributions from the Joyce Athletic Convocation Center, the Center for Social Concerns and the transporta­tion department, said Keene. 
see FIELD/page 4 


Pearson leads in Ind. governor race 
By PAUL PEARSON Associate News Editor 
In addition to voting for pres­ident on Nov. 3, Indiana voters will select Evan Bayh or Lindley Pearson as governor. 
Bayh, the Democratic incum­bent, is trying for a second term as governor, while Pearson, the Republican attorney general, is looking to unseat him. 
"Governor Bayh is running on 
•congressional races/page 3 
his record of maintaining fiscal stability without raising taxes," according to Dave Dawson, press secretary for the Bayh campaign. "He has made good on his pledge" not to raise taxes, Dawson said. 
Pearson has accused Bayh of "creating a phony surplus" in the state budget by delaying payments to various municipal projects, according to Jim Poin­sett, press secretary for the Pearson campaign. 
In recent television ads, Pearson also has accused Bayh of increasing auto excise taxes after promising not to raise them. 
Dawson said the auto excise rate is no higher than on the day Bayh took office, and was reduced in 1991, but after a year returned to pre-1991 levels "to avoid a tax increase." 
Pearson has said he will not raise taxes and will restructure welfare, which "will save (the state) a minimum of $100 mil­lion." 
Poinsett said Bayh would raise taxes if re-elected, which explains why "Bayh has 1 avoided talking about the fu­
1

ture." Dawson said Bayh would be 
l

"foolhardy to make a 'read my lips' pledge" now, since no one 
l 

can predict what will happen in 
I

the future. 
l

Poinsett admitted that Pear­son trails Bayh in statewide 
1

polls, but questioned the accu­racy of this year's political polls. 
j

"With such low response rates, you have to wonder if the sam­ples are accurate," he said. 
It is too soon to declare Pear­son the loser, Poinsett said, adding, "There is a law in Indi­ana that you can't bury any­body until they're dead." 
Bayh will spend the final weekend of the campaign tour­
ing through northern Indiana with Democratic candidates for other state offices, Dawson said. 
Meanwhile, Pearson will spend the weekend taking his recreational vehicle tour to the southern part of the state "where he's not as strong as he would like to be," Poinsett said. 
The Bayh and Pearson cam­paigns l;ltve one thing in com­mon -each believes its candi­date will win on Nov. 3. 
"We believe that Governor Bayh will receive an over­whelming approval" and win a second term as governor, Daw­son said. 
Poinsett, on the other hand, said that "the demographics of 
see GOVERNOR/page ~ 

Spi~~'kers, bands show for "'D Democrat rally 

By THERESA Al,.ENAN
Naws Writer · · · · · 


The ND and SMC College Democrats st~ged a "farewell rally" fo.t Pre.s~d,ent B-u;sh Thursday aftel'lloon to en~our. 
·age _studen~$ ~~. "Ro~tk the Vote." Tlu\ sign ()p tbe stage read "It would be J1lde. not to say good·bye. &\joyMaine... 
The campus band Dissfunk"' 
tion t.ln~ 
r'Hy With songs . e _.. ... d tf) tlu~ ~rent Republican tlJ~epu~ive bra.n~h includb:lg .· al~d•.l>e· livered;~ .. hen en· dor~d De~n~ . Vlc~~Pr~si~ dential c.~di .ate ... _..·. Gore with the song "Call Me AI.~ . 
ND College Democrat presi· dent, Andrew Holmgren urged students· to vote and introduced the first speaker, Wes Kirkpatrick, ND graduate student and teacher. 
Kirkpatrick began, "You wouldn't know it from The Ob· server, but for the first time since 1964, Democrats are first in our campus polls. We don't Med to re-elect a 'Read mylips' environmental president. We need a vote for change in­~luding candidates with character and integrity. Those candidates are Clinton and Gore." 
Other speakers included var· 
see RAL.LY/page 4 


• 
In 1902: A volcanic eruption ravaged the main coffee­growing region in Guatemala. 

• 
In 1914: The United States announced a $10 million war loan to France. 

• 
In 1980: In Washington, D.C., Senator Harrison Williams was indicted tor bribery in the Abscam case. 

• 
In 1984: The body of Father Jerzy Popieluszko, a pro­Solidarity Polish priest, was found 11 days after he had been abducted by members of the Polish security police. 

• 
In 1991 : The Environmental Protection Agency released a report saying that nearly 100 urban areas in the United States have air pollution exceeding federal standards. 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
In the midst of all this stuff about the elections (and, unfortunately, you will be bombarded by such for the next week), we need to talk about a subject that affects students more directly. 
Romance. 
Yes, believe it or not, these bastions of Catholic Editor morals and teachings do ________ witness their share of affairs of the heart. 
The main place to find romance can be summed up in three little letfers. 
SYR. 
This acronym supposedly stands for "Screw Your Roommate." (Given our administration's views, this just cannot be taken literally). My experiences over the past three-plus years have convinced me that it stands for "Sorry, You're Roasted." 
Explain this bitterness, you say? 
Due to the "no-SYRs-on-football-weekends" rule, it is not at all uncommon (in fact, it's pretty damn common) for lots of dorms to have their semi-formals on the same night (example: tonight's SYR list alone includes Knott, Morrissey, Howard, Flanner and Lyons, as well as a barn dance at Saint Mary's). 
Because of this, it is not entirely uncommon for people to be asked to several SYRs on the same night. 
Sorry, You're Roasted. 
It's not-a total loss. From my experience, most people are quite polite about turning me down. They invariably thank me for asking them, and politely tell me that they are already committed to go somewhere that night. 
They always tell me they're busy. No one has ever said something like, ''I'd rather scrub all the bathrooms in the Stadium with a toothbrush than go to your SYR." 
This polite refusal is encouraging the first few times, but when it builds to 10, then to 20, then to 30... 
Sorry, You're Roasted. 
When you finally do find a date (and praise the Supreme Being of your choice), you face the next step: finance. 
Sure, the SYR ticket alone is pretty cheap (normally $5-12 for semi"formals), you have to add on to that the cost of flowers (or other gifts for that special someone), drycleaning (after all, that old rum stain from last New Year's won't go away by itselO. refreshments (you'd be amazed how rvuch a case of Pepsi will run you nowa­days) ... 
Sorry, You're Roasted. 
Then, you meet your date, go to the dance, have a pleasant evening, but then, at the end o the evening, after being a total saint around your date, you still face the polite but damning brush-off. 
"I'll call you. 
n 

You know what that person is really saying. "Sorry, You're Roasted." 
My friend Dan found an interesting way around this whole romantic mess. He stood at one hall Mass during announcements and said, "I really need a girlfriend." 
Laugh if you must, but bear in mind that he and the woman he met that night are now engaged. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: News Systems 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Stud~ of sperm to become science 
• LODON -Sperm specialists blame doctors, men and the medical establishment for the dearth of knowl­edge about male sex cells. "Unlike gynecology, which is a recognized discipline, there is no corresponding disci­pline for men," said Dr. John Aitken, a sperm expert at the University of Edinburgh. A small but growing group of doctors who style themselves "andrologists" are studying the male reproductive system. B.ut it is not a medical speciality with licensing exams, like cardiology or gynecology. Infertile men usually have no symptoms. Men also shy away from testing because they wrongly equate sperm count with libido. "Men have grown up with this confused idea that virility and fertility are somehow interlinked, so there is a stigma attached," said Dr. Richard Sharpe, a co-researcher with Aitken. 
NATIONAL 


OF INTEREST 
• 
A Spanish Mass will be held Sunday at 10:30 a.m. in the Breen Phillips chapel. Padre Tim Scully will preside. 

• 
Students Against Driving Drunk will meet Sunday at 4 p.m. in Room 300 of the University Health Services Building. For more information call Theresa Lie at 283­2879. 


MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
Friday, October 30, 1992 
FORECAST 
Mostly cloudy and 
cool Friday and 
Saturday. Highs 
near 50, lows in the 
30s 


TEMPERATURES 
~ ~ ~
f :  
City Anchorage  H9 34  L 32  ~~\  
Atlanta  77  58  
Bogota  68  43  
Boston  60  43  
Cairo  82  64  
Chicago  47  42  
Cleveland  51  44  
Dallas  80  63  
Detroit  54  45  
Indianapolis  53  47  
Jerusalem London  75 50  52 43  I:  
Los Angeles  71  63  
Madrid  64  52  
Minneapolis  45  25  
Moscow  25  19  
Nashville  69  43  
New York  63  48  
Paris  52  46  
Philadelphia  59  49  
Rome  72  61  
Seattle  57  47  
South Bend  54  45  
Tokyo  57  52  
Washington, D.C.  60  50  



CAMPUS Video taoe wins award 
• 
NOTREDAME -The University of Notre Dame's sesquicentennial videotape has won a Golden Eagle Award from the Council on International Non-TheatricaJ Events (CINE). CINE was established in 1957 to recom­mend the best American short films for showing in international film festivals, and this year more than 1200 films and videos competed for such designation. "The Unfolding Vision" was written and directed by Andy Burd, a 1962 graduate of the University who heads a eponymous creative services firm in Chicago. Bruce Harlan, director of photography and television production at Notre Dame, was the producer and Ernie Schubert of Chicago the editor. Karl Kirbie and Michael Jones of Golden Dome Productions in South Bend were responsible for camera and sound, respectively, and music was composed by Greg O'Connor, Burbank, Calif. Executive producer was Richard Conklin, associate vice president of University Relations. Harlan, O'Connor and Conklin are also Notre Dame graduates. In the video, interviews with Notre Dame faculty, students, administrators, alumni and trustees are interwoven with archival and contemporary images of the University to restate its institutional vision on the 150th anniversary of its founding. 

• 
"Take Back the Night," a march to protest rape and promote women's safety, will be held Sunday at 7 p.m. Participants should meet at LeMans main circle to walk to the Grotto. The march is sponsored by SMC Center for Women's Alliance, SMC Women's Alliance, SMC/ND CARE, ND Safewalk, and Feminist Forum. 


Mike O'hara Sandy Wiegand  Vincent Del Pino  
Sports Jonathan Jensen Production Cheryl Moser Whitney Sheets  Business Pancho Lozano Marc Krejci  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
YESTERDAv•s TRADING October 29 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 247,829,540 +.51 to 231.42 S&P COMPOSITE +.73 to 420.86 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -5.13 to 3,246.27

UNCHANGED 
608 

GOLD 
+$.20 to $340.20 oz 
SILVER -$.005 to $3.765 oz 

Friday, October 30, 1992 

By JENNIFER HABRYCH News Writer 
In an election year when anti­incumbent sentiments are high, challengers are calling for change in Washington and incumbents are working to de­fend their records. The race for the Indiana 3rd congressional district between Democrat Tim Roemer and Republican Carl Baxmeyer has proved to be no different. 
In the second and final tele­vised debate between the two candidates on Monday Oct. 26 on WSJV-ABC, Roemer, the one­term incumbent, stressed that he plans to make Congress work for America again and get 
By PANCHO LOZANO News Writer 
In what has been dubbed, "The Senate Race to Define America" by the Ft. Wayne Journal Gazzette, Democrat Joe Hogsett and Republican incum­bent Dan Coats have run nearly mistake-free, "textbook cam­paign(s)," according to Bob Palacios, a campaign staffer for Hoosiers for Hogsett. 
"Both Joe (Hogsett) and Coats Americans back to work. 
Baxmeyer, owner of Baxmeyer & Associates in South Bend, said that people are ready for a change in Congress. "The time for talk is over. People are tired of rhetoric, they want action." 
Roemer defended his record, saying he doesn't just talk about change, but works for change and has been clean of scandals like that at the House bank. "It's time not to blame Republicans, Democrats, or Washington, it's time to work for tough answers." 
Among the policies that Baxmeyer supports are a bal­anced budget amendment, a line-item veto to cut the "pork" from bills, Congressional term 
have not only defined their fundamental differences in their campaigning, but their techniques in communicating their messages to the public have been much improved," said Palacios. 
The last poll, published on Oct. 11 by The Indianapolis Star, showed Coats leading with 56 percent of the vote and Hogsett with 36 percent. 
Hogsett, currently secretary of state, supports an increase in government involvement to 
The Department of Music Presents 




Wi{fiam Cerny 

~acu{ty Piano ~cita{ 
1992 COL'llM'B'llS '}'E..fU{,P'l{.O(j11._.fJIM: M'llSlC O~T.J{'E Jll'M'F$JC!IV{_1f'E'J•{[Sffi'E'R$ 
Gottschalk, Joplin, Rorem, Villa Lobos, Gershwin, Ginastera 
Sunday, Nov. 1, 1992 2:00p.m. 
Annen berg Auditorium, The Snite Musuem of Art 
The concert is free and open to the public 
The Observer 

limits, a "trickle-down" eco­nomic plan, a voucher plan for health care, and a crime bill that would institute an instan­taneous background check on handgun purchases. 
Roemer supports Congres­sional reform to cut unneces­sary spending provisions from bills; health care reform to control costs and cut paper­work; the Brady Bill, which establishes a waiting period for handgun purchases; the Family 
solve the nation's problems while Coats believes the private 
sector should lead the nation. 
According to the Star and the South Bend Tribune, in the early stages of the campaign, Coats seemed vulnerable be­cause he lagged in the polls. 
But as the campaign has con­tinued, the idea of change has not been as much of a factor in the campaign as anticipated, according to Tim Goeglein, press secretary for the Coats campaign. 
"Coats will say that he is not looking for change, but rather reforms in systems which are deeply rooted," said Goeglein. "He (Coats} would be hesitant to make changes just for political sake." 
Hogsett, in his advertise­ments, has characterized the race as a choice between "more of the same" and "a change for the better." 
The main concern for change in Hogsett's eyes is the need for 

ThE CoMeDy OfErRoRs 
Performed by 


The National Shakespeare Company Monday & Tuesday November 2 & 3 Washington Hall 8:10pm Student Tickets $7 
Sponsored by The Student Activities Office and Student Union Board Tickets available at the LaFortune Infonnation Desk 239-8128 
-
-

Leave Bill; a "Marshall Plan" to improve infrastructure and create jobs; and reform to limit campaign spending. 
Terry Holt, press secretary for the Baxmeyer campaign, said the key to this election is "answering. one fundamental question: are you satisfied with how things are working and are you satisfied with how your Congress is handling them?" 
Americans are losing faith in Congress because they do not see Congress addressing the problems of this country, said Holt. ''I'd have to say that Notre Dame students feel the same way, that the problems facing this country have yet to be addressed." 
According to Bernie Toon, 
an improved economy, his campaign material says. 
Hogsett believes this could be accomplished by creating tax incentives· to encourage domes­tic investment, setting aside NAFTA until tighter regulations are enacted, developing new markets for U.S. goods, and supporting job re-training pro­grams. 
Coats has opposed abortion throughout his public career and supports the overturning of Roe vs. Wade while Hogsett supports a right to abortion. 
Coats believes in a strong na­tional defense, but says that in changing times it is necessary and reasonable to reduce the military presence. 
"Compromise rather than fol­lowing the traditional stereo­type of build at all expenses is the key in the nineties," accord­ing to Goeglein. 
Coats has stood by his free market philosophy through this campaign by cutting taxes, promoting international trade, making regulatory and legal reforms, and preparing for the future with an emphasis on "human capital." 
Other reforms on Coats' agenda include balancing the budget and health care reform. But the single most important issue for Coats is fiscally irre­sponsible government spending, according to Goeglein. 
"The Democrats are trying to manage the future by runaway spending," said Goeglein. 
Although the candidates have fundamental diffp,rences on the 



_________________., 
page 3 

Roemer campaign press secre­tary, "the key issue in this elec­tion is preserving jobs in northern Indiana, growing the economy, and education." 
For Roemer to win the elec­tion he must continue to do what he has done the last two years, said Toon. "If Tim con­tinues to be accessible, bring jobs to the area, and continue doing his job, we'll be in great shape on election day." 
Student voters need to be particularly concerned about a candidate's stand on higher education issues, according to Richard Conklin, associate vice president of University Rela­tions. 
Roemer is leading in polls re­leased by both parties. 
issues, both have plenty of polit­ical experience. 
Hogsett managed Evan Bayh's campaign for secretary of state in 1986 and for governor in 1988. He was appointed secre­tary of state following Bayh's election in 1989. 
Hogsett came from behind to defeat former Indianapolis Mayor Bill Hudnut's bid for the secretary of state seat in 1990. . Coats, Indiana's junior sena­tor, was the veteran congress­man from Indiana's fourth district when he filled the va­cant spot left by former Indiana Senator Dan Quayle. 
Whichever of the two candi­dates is elected, it will have little or no impact on the Notre Dame student body, according to Peri Arnold, professor of government. The low impact of the election on Notre Dame is mainly due to the private status of the University and its lack of eligibility for federally funded education, Arnold said. 
Both candidates will continue to campaign through Monday. Palacios believes the key now is to continue pressing the message and getting people out to vote. 
The low number of mistakes in the two candidates' cam­paigns have made it much simpler for voters to under­stand the platforms of the can­didates, according to Palacios. 
"If a teacher was to try to ex­plain what the definition of a senatorial campaign, all he would have to do is look at this year's race," said Palacios. 
BILL FRANK 
NISSAN•SUZUKI•SUBARU 
15% Student Discount with I. D. FREE Shuttle Service to and from Campus 
•Brakes  •Tune up  •Tires  
•Exhaust  •Alignments  •Oil & Filter  
•No Job Too Little or B1g!  
•We accept credit cards  
•We service any make or model  

•We can make arrangements with your parents long distance 51176 U.S. 33 North South Bend 
4.5 miles north of Notre Dame carq>US 
277-5800 

ATTENTION STUDENTS! COME AND SUPPORT THE IRISH BY GETTING YOUR BASKETBALL SEASON TICKETS NEXT WEEK!! 
... 
., 
STUDENT DISTRIBUTION IS November 2-5 9AM-6 PM 
JACC Gate 10 Ticket Office 
~ 
11 games for only $44.00 for both lower arena and bleachers 
All student seats in the east endzone by the Notre Dame bench (Sections 13, 14, 15 & 16) 
The games included in the student season are:  
Nov. 23 --USA Vercich  Nov. 30 -­Australian Nationals  Dec. 6 --Evansville  Dec. 8 -­Indiana  Jan. 23 --LaSalle  
Feb. 2 --St. Bonaventure  Feb.6 --Duke  Feb. 13 -­Kentucky  Feb 17 --Marquette  
Feb. 25 --Duquesne  Mar. 3 --Valparaiso  
- 

page4 The Observer Friday, October 30, 1992 
Election 
continued from page 1 
ticipation, especially because the voter registration they sponsored earlier this year was so successful. 
"It's very appropriate that we do something like this after the huge amount of participation we got after the voter registra­tion," said Butrus. 
Voting for undergraduates on 

Chile 
continued from page 1 
gram; six ended up applying for the program. The students have not yet been chosen. 
"They've (the applicants) all been interviewed and now we simply must decide," said Scully. "Who knows, we might 

Governor 
continued from page 1 
Indiana are such that if Repub­licans vote Republican," Pear­son should be able to win the election. 

Field 
continued from page 1 
tion department, said Keene. 
"We're always looking for more contributions. Anything students can donate, clothes, food, or toiletries, will be help­ful," said Keene. He can be contacted at 283-1050. 

Rally 
continued from page 1 
ious members of the College Democrats, all stressing the idea that America needs a posi­tive change, and that the Democrats Bill Clinton and AI Gore offer that change. 
The campus bands Chisel and Grope for Luna ended the rally encouraging students to "elect a better plan for youth" by electing Clinton and Gore. 
Reduce Reuse Recycle 

campus will be handled by the judicial board in each dorm, and graduates and off-campus undergraduates can vote in LaFortune from 11 a.m. to 1 
p.m. and 5 to 7 p.m. Faculty voting will be at Decio Hall from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., and administration can vote in the Administration Building from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 3 to 5 p.m. 
"If you want to speak out, vote on Monday," said Butrus. At Saint Mary's, the Political 


Science Department is sponsor­ing a mock election today that began Thursday . said Laurie Donohoe, president of the Polit­ical Science Club. 
The election is for students only, and voting is organized by class. The Political Science De­partment wants to see how the student body will vote and look for differences among the dif­ferent classes. They, too, hope that it will encourage voting in the national election on Nov. 3. 

Yeltsin blasts his foes in parliament 
MOSCOW (AP) -President be replaced, Russian media Boris Yeltsin on Thursday reported. hinted at harsh measures against his hard-line foes in The comments were among the Russian parliament, the most alarmist yet from blaming them for slowing his Yeltsin's team, which has economic reforms and come under intense attack in endangering the country. recent weeks from nationalist 
and pro-Communist 
"The situation is not simply lawmakers who dominate the difficult, it's more like Congress of People's Deputies, critical." Yeltsin was quoted the nation's highest by the ITAR-Tass news agency lawmaking body. as saying. 
Yeltsin lashed back Wednes­

State Secretary Gennady day, banning the right wing Burbulis. a top Yeltsin aide, National Salvation Front. It said Russian leaders were dis­was the first such act by the cussing imposition of emer­Russian president since he gency rule. Foreign Minister dissolved the Soviet Commu­Andrei Kozyrev warned hard­nist Party in the wake of the line lawmakers they could be failed 1991 coup. 
A 
THE POINTE 

AT SAINT JOSEPH 
Start the holidays off with a cozy place to stay. 
The Pointe at Saint joseph Apartments are nestled on the SaintJoseph River bank and convienently located in downtown South Bend. 
•Close to ND Campus 
•Selected 1 or 2 bedroom apartments on special for a big Holiday Savings 
Your Luxury Apartment is waiting for you 
accept all six, if permitted." "Chile is a dynamic country 
undergoing redemocratization 
The University of Michigan and political development," and University of Wisconsin are Scully said. "This is a significant also involved with the program. experience for any student." The two institutions combined will send around 30-40 stu­Applications will soon be ac­dents, Scully explained. Even­cepted for the July-December tually, when there is enough session. Contact Father Scully interest, Notre Dame will con­or Father Don McNeill, director sider establishing its own pro­of the Center for Social Con­gram. cerns. 
Happy Halloween 
from your friends 



at The Observer! 
OFFICE OF RECREA f!O:\AL SPORTS 



ENTER NOW 
BASKETBALL MEN Is INTERHALL WOMEN 1 S INTERHALL GRAD/FAC/STAFF CLUB 
HOCKEY MEN Is INTERHALL GRADUATE 
WALLYBALL CAMPUS CO-REC 
ENTRIES BEGIN OCTOBER 27 DEADLINE: NOVEMBER 3 
§ave SlSU 
Touchdown At Hyatt For The USC vs. Notre Dame Game November 28. 
We'll Give You Star Treatment: Free Universal Studios TicketWith Room! 

Attention, sports fans. located only a pass The new Hyatt Regency from the L.A. · Los Angeles has a special Coliseum. You'll offer for all those in town cheer our new look 
P~~· for the Big Game. Hyatt's and delight in our 


Includes-ticker. Football Weekend Package spacious guest rooms and complimentary inclu<ies deluxe room accommodations, Fitness Center. complimentary valet parking at the hotel 
With· our late check-out time, extend and a complimentary ticket ro Univer~l 
vour weekend and take advantage of · your free ticket to UniversalStudios Hollvwood. 
Studios Hollywood.
Before and after the game, H_)~r\-l.. T Additional tickets are
enjoy the luxuries of our • · C· ! ....., C • available at a special price. 
recently renovated Hyatt, Feel The Hyatt Touch.·· 
Second night just $95, including valet parking. Kids get their own room at halfprice or can stay in their parents room for free! Score big! Call vour travel planner or Hyatt at (800) 233-1234 or (213) 683-1234. 
f Jl}9! H~~n Corr •Rat; is rtr room. pc:r nig-ht. sinr:lt Clr Joubll! IJCXUp.JRl~· b.i;d on.a,·ouiJ';olilit~. ~ot ;~pphcJi~lt to ,:,,,wrnuon!' ''r rrour"· TJx rxdudtJ 
a ~ear-
Efficiencies now from just $255 
1-Bedrooms now from just $270 
2-Bedrooms now from just $330 
+ 
Laundrt Rooms 

+ 
Picnic Tables & Grills +Gazebo 

+ 
Basketball & Volleyball Court 

+ 
24-Hour Emergency Maintenance 

+ 
Planned Activities Program 


272-lSS() 



rHlCKORU ' DlLLAC3E 
Conveniently located on Hickory Road, just north of Edison. 
§4VI: 4~ 4UUITI()~4L S1~! Btin9 thl& ad when you apply tor an apartment and the $15 application re~~will be waived. 
Mon.-Fri. 9-7, Sat. 10-4 and Sun. 12-4 
Friday, October 30, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Women discuss domestic violence 
By HONORA BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Ninety-five percent of domes­tic violence cases reported to the South Bend prosecuting attorney's office involve women as the victims, according to Terry Marguson of the Domes­tic Violence section of the South Bend prosecuting attorney's office. 
Marguson spoke at a panel discussion on domestic violence sponsored by the Notre Dame Law School Women's Legal Fo­rum Thursday. 
Rosalyn Hayes, a YWCA Bat­tered Women Counselor, Vicki Mcintire, a paralegal from the prosecuting attorney's office, and Marguson spoke. 
A woman who is abused should seek third party intervention, said Marguson, 
Happy Birthday 


Liza 

To the Sweetest Person We Know! 
Love, Mom & Dad 
suggesting a therapist or the legal system. 
Battered women usually leave their husbands four to five times before leaving for the final time. Many doubt that anyone will believe them, not pressing charges because they feel their abusers have more power to win a case. 
Many victims press charges but fail to show up at the trial or recant on the stand. 
Domestic violence is not caused by a loss of control, but the choice, "to use violence to control." according to Mcintire. Studies show that many abusers, at least 80 percent, have suffered some previous sexual abuse, often CO!!Jing from dysfunctional families. 
For abusers who are found guilty, "incarceration is a tenuous alternative," explained Marguson, because the victim cannot predict the length of the jail sentence and therefore cannot be assured of her safety. "A woman's choice to stay (in an abusive marriage) is, at times, the most rational decision she can make or else she may die," said Marguson. 
Counseling is an alternative to incarceration. 
Phofo GaiHAJ®Album and tid aseoond one FREE! 




The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" 



1i101eNEW 
PHOTO GALAXY is a registered trademarll of Qualex Inc. 
Receive a FREE second set of 3" or 4" Photo Galaxy prints with your order of same size Photo Galaxy prints. Made from 135. disc or 110 color print film (C-41 process only). PHOTO GALAXY not available from 126. This special cannot be combined with any other offer. Must enclose coupon in order envelope to receive spe­cial Write COUPON ENCLOSED In Special Instructions area. Offer valid: November 2-8. 
The Observer/David Hungeling 

A star In the making 
Alumni sophomore Matt Orsagh trims his sideburns which he has been growing to win a part in "Rudy." Several students have been 
working as extras for the movie. 
Birth control injection is approved 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The government on Thursday gave women the option of using an injectable drug, Depo Provera, that provides birth control for three months but also may cause weight gain and men­strual irregularities. 
"This drug presents another long-term effective option for women to prevent pregnancy," Food and Drug Commissioner David Kessler said in a written statement. 
"As an injectable, given once every three months, Depo Provera eliminates problems related to missing a daily dose," Kessler said. 
About a quarter of the women of childbearing age in the United States use the birth control pill, which must be taken every day. 
The Food and Drug Adminis­tration's decision followed the advice of an outside panel of scientists who recommended unanimously last June that the drug be allowed for use as a contraceptive. 
However, the FDA pointed out that the drug has possible side effects, including weight gain and menstrual irregulari­ties. 
It also can leave women tired, weak, dizzy and nervous and can cause headaches and abdominal pain. 
Gladieux TRAVEL


Jj IJ 
Top Gainer of 1968Has Bob Gladieux Gone To The Air 
lntunatloaal SpecWkt 
234-6636 

gC, b b!o Sun. ~ 6~~~~ Open
~~~l:!~ 
,">,oq~Jc::: Jam <-P§' with Quick Change 
Every Sun. 8-midnight 1 mile east of campus 


~-~-~--~~------~---­
~----------~~-­
page 6 
Religious right is gaining politically 
(AP)--Conservative Christians burrowing in from the grass­roots up are challenging more moderate Republicans around the country for the soul of the GOP. 
Local organizing has put the "religious right" in control of party organizations in at least two states and in strong posi­tions in six others. Nationwide, hundreds of conservative Christian candidates are mak­ing strong bids for seats on school boards, city councils and state legislatures. 
"The religious right got it backward in 1988," said Ralph Reed, director of the Christian Coalition, a Virginia-based group that grew out of TV evangelist Pat Robertson's failed presidential campaign that year. 
"They descended on Wash­ington, when what they needed to be doing was tinkering with ideas and solutions at the state and local levels. That's what is happening now." 
Reed and other evangelical leaders say they're trying to bring conservative family val­ues back into politics. But critics say there will be a blending of church and state, "stealth candidates" who conceal far-right agendas until after Election Day, and a Republican Party drifting away from the mainstream. 
"This is an entirely different party than when I joined," said Belva Ott, a GOP activist since 1959 in Wichita, Kan. "We've gone a lot further to the right." 
She watched with dismay in August as fundamentalists ­mostly veterans of last year's Operation Rescue anti-abortion protests -won 83 percent of the seats on Sedgwick County's Republican committee. 
"I think what we've seen here locally has transpired up through the national level," said Ott, who is campaigning for a pro-choice Republican candidate for state Senate. 
"What I consider to be a mi­nority of American citizens has taken over many of the precinct positions in order to gain a foothold of power," she said. 
The Christian Coalition, claiming 250,000 members, is the strongest of several funda­mentalist groups focusing on grass-roots organizing. 
"Our goal is to have 10 trained activists in each of America's 175,000 precincts by the end of the decade," Reed said. 
The group IS distnbutmg 40 million voter guides to more than 100,000 churches na­tionwide by Election Day, Reed said. Guides are tailored to in­dividual precincts, outlining candidates' records and posi­tions on issues such as abor­tion, gun control and gay rights. 
Several GOP candidates in 
U.S. House races have passed the Christian Coalition litmus test. 
In Arizona, Doug Wead, a former Bush administration li­aison to religious right groups, is running against Democrat Karan English for an open seat. 

Beeker CPA Review Course Invites you to attend a presentation on 
II How to prepare for the CPA ExamII 
Monday. November 4th, 1992 LaFortune Center-Montgomery Theatre 5:00p.m. 
Pizza and Pop will be served 
Drawing for a $50 Gift Certificate 
from Notre Dame Book Store for further info., call: 277-43&& 
The Observer Friday, October 30, 1992 

Bishops denounce spouse abuse 
(AP)··The Bible does not tell women to subm.it to abusive husbands, Roman Catholic bishops say in the U.S. church's first official statement on spouse abuse. 
In a statement that condemns sexism, the bishops declare women shouldn't consider themselves religiously bound to remain in abusive relationships, and encourage parish priests to be ready with "a safe place" for abused women seeking help. 
'J.illl kno\\ llw fel'hng 
IL stays with yDu all your life.•. llelping a friend. A nd,t:hbor. Somcont: in m:e(.l. 
·l·hat's what Red Cn>ss V(>ltllltl't'r~th, 
everyday. 
Because t'\·erY da\· sc: lllll·cmt· nl'eds us 
And we nl'ednni. 
\X'e ur~enlly ni.·cd ,·oluntl't'rs and 
dtJ!l;llUlllS l'iea:->e Gilly( 1t1r Hed (:n ,~.., cllaJllt'l today lklpthl'('<'"Pk'dHllll'lppeopll'
+American Red Cross 

~, ~~ 
~· 6~~ "" 0 I
~....~~0 .~"i n y 
"'~~Q}JJ> so~ for 
,:,'<J 
" 


0 Beverages 
or a game of darts 
1 mile east of campus 

"Violence in any form ­physical, sexual, psychological or verbal -is sinful," the bishops say in "When I Call for Help: A Pastoral Response to Domestic Violence Against Women." 
The joint statement on spouse abuse by the bishops' Committees on Marriage and Family and Women in Society and in the Church was proposed in March, and approved last month hy the Administrative Committee of 
----i:l..l'I tit} I l ~ ~~"fil$1s2w9I-S-TE-VE-.N-_
THE -:r.;nrr.nrlt'tfllll: r-til::H=1<-Ilnlorn fi pm SEAGI\L 




MIGHTY UNDER 
DUCKS SIEGE 
., 4:45, 7:00, 9'15 . Ip( ·J FJI: 5 15, 7:30, 9:45 Sat-Sun·. 12'.30, 2:45, 4.45, 7.00, 9.1~ • Sat-Sun· 12:45,3:00,5:15,7:30,9:45 
Clive Barl<:er 
Fn: 5:00. 7:00. 9 30 Sat-Sun: 

Fn: 5. t 5. 7·30. '0 00 
Ffl. 4:45. 7;15.945 rw 

Sat-Sun. 1:15, 3.t5, 5:t5, 7:3C :O.OC 
Sa:-Sun: 2:0C. 4 45, 7::s. 9:45 ~ 

the U.S. Catholic Conference. 
It emerged relatively quickly and quietly, in contrast to a controversial pastoral letter on women that the bishops have worked on for nine years and may be headed for defeat this fall. 
It was never discussed in an open meeting of the full complement of bishops, unlike the unapproved letter, which backs sexual equality but stops short of calling for women priests. 



FRIGHT NIGHT 
FREE MOVIE MARATHON 
OCTOBER 30, 1992 
Ballroom (formally Theodores) LaFortune Student Center 
ll:30pm Halloween 
1:15am Graveyard Shift 3:00am Friday The lJth 4:45am Nightmare On Elm Stred 6:30am Pet Sematary 
Fint 140 receive a free goolish goodie bag FREE POPCORN AND SODA FOR ALL 
Friday, October 30, 1992 The Observer page 7 
~-~---~~-~·~~----------~-~---~ 
---~----------~ ~~~ 
CIA knew Iraqi defense got exports 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The CIA knew before the Gulf War that at least five recipients of U.S. exports to Iraq were defense industries, but it did not tell the Commerce Department, which approved the sales, documents show. 
The Commerce Department approved some $1.5 billion in exports to Iraq from 1985 to 1990, saying most were not designated for military use. 
Information revealed Thurs­day on both sides of the Atlantic indicated that the CIA had in­formation about Iraqi defense industry purchases both in the United States and Britain. 
Many of the Iraqi companies that bought U.S. technology le­gally turn out to have been mili­tary industries with innocuous sounding names that didn't set off alarms at the Commerce Department. In any case, the department was under White House orders to encourage trade with Iraq. 
But the CIA, and possibly the Defense Intelligence Agency, knew the true nature of some of the Iraqi companies, according to a congressional investigator's documents obtained Thursday by The Associated Press. 
On Jan. 29, 1991, the senior congressional investigator met with CIA officials to ask what the agency had known about 25 of the Iraqi end users listed on 
U.S. 
export licenses, and whether the agency had noti­fied the Commerce Department. 

F. 
Douglas Whitehouse, who headed the CIA's committee on technology transfer, said he had run a computer check comparing the 25 end users against a CIA data bank, ac­cording to the notes made by the investigator, who also was interviewed on the grounds that he not be identified. 




The Observer/David Hungeling 

The matchmaker 
Sophomore Ed Jamieson calls up girls to try and find a date for his roommate. The roommate needs a date for the Morrissey formal this evening. 
Hiss was no spy, Russian general says 


Investment Banking Opportunities at First Boston 
First Boston, a global investment banking fmn headquartered in New York, will be recruiting Notre Dame graduates for its fmancial analyst program. This two-year program offers individuals a unique opportunity to gain experience in the investment banking industry. Individuals with all academic backgrounds are encouraged to join our Firm. Positions are available in the Investment Banking Department in New York and in various Regional Offices. 
All students are cordially invited to join First Boston representativ~s for an introduction to the finn and the analyst program on: 
Wednesday, November 4, 1992 Foster Room La Fortune Student Center 7:00p.m. 
Interview date: 
January 28, 1993 
For further information and inquiries, please feel free to contact: 
NEW YORK (AP) -Alger Hiss, one of the first targets of anti-Communist fervor at the start of the Cold War, said Thursday he was grateful he was still alive to proclaim vindication after 44 years. 
In the sensational drama of 1948 that spotlighted a young Congressman Richard Nixon, Hiss was accused of being a Red spy by an admitted former Communist, Whittaker Cham­bers. 
Now, at a news conference, the fragile, patrician, 87 -year­old Hiss watched a videotape in which a Russian general de­clared that Hiss never spied for the Soviet Union. 
Gen. Dmitri Volkogonov, keeper of Russian military intelligence archives, also said he found nothing in the records that showed Chambers was a Soviet espionage conduit. 
The general asked John Lowenthal, a lawyer and film­maker who took his statement in Moscow on Oct. 15, to "tell Mr. Alger Hiss that the heavy weight should be lifted from his heart." 
"The Alger Hiss case was a result of the Cold War, which I hope has definitely become a thing of the past," Volkogonov said. 
Hiss, who came under attack while he was a 44-year-old former State Department lawyer, entered the news con­ference walking with a cane. He remained seated and his head shook as he answered questions in a quavery voice. 
Greg Dingens Investment Banking (312) 750-3071 
-
.......... •
•

..~r-.c.... ~ -a memher of !he CS Firs! Hos10n (;roup 
~~:b~ FIRST BosToN 
I
• 

~, b~ ~·OS>~~""OPEN
~~~~o:ce; 
~~qfJl7 Nights 

c.p a Week 
•Opens at 3 p.m. 
1 mile east of campus 
--~-~ -~--------~ 
-------------~-----­
.--------------------­
page 8 The Observer Friday, October 30, 1992 

Iran role in bombing suggested 
WASHINGTON {AP) -A se­nior Bush administration offi­cial on Thursday linked Iran to a bomb ambush by Islamic fundamentalists that killed five Israeli soldiers and prompted a bloody reprisal raid by Israeli forces into Lebanon. 
"There is one country that is important, Iran, that has made it abundantly clear it is opposed to the Arab-Israeli peace pro­cess and Hezbollah is one of its instruments," the official told reporters at the State Depart­ment. 
Besides the five Israeli sol­diers, 14 other Israelis and Le­banese have died in a cycle of violence that began with the Hezbollah bombing Sunday in the Israeli security enclave in­side the Lebanese border. 
"If you look at Hezbollah's agenda, it is violently opposed to the peace process," said the official, who insisted on anonymity. "That agenda seems to be also the agenda of its patrons." 
While linking Iran to the at­tack, the official said most of the other Middle Eastern gov­ernments support Arab-Israeli peace talks and many are ac­tively involved. Iran, he said, is the one important exception. 
"Iran supports Hezbollah, the connection is evident," he said. 
The fundamentalist group has taken root in areas of Lebanon. While the country is under considerable Syrian influence, the official said the United 
States has  no evidence that  
Syria  was  involved  in  the  
attack.  

U.N. special envoy to Somalia quits over bitter experiences with U.N. bureaucracy 
MOGADISHU, Somalia {AP)­The outspoken diplomat who coordinated U.N. operations in starving Somalia quit tearfully Thursday over what he called bitter experiences with the U.N. bureaucracy. 
In New York, Security Council ambassadors said Secretary­General Boutros Boutros-Ghali is naming Ismat Kittani, an Iraqi diplomat with extensive 
U.N. experience, as his new special envoy for Somalia. 
The Associated Press ob­tained a copy of Boutros-Ghali's letter to the council officially in­forming it of Mohamed Sah­noun's resignation and his in­tent to appoint Kittani, an Iraqi Kurd and former president of the General Assembly. 
Sahnoun's departure was 
seen by many as a setback in the international effort to alle­viate suffering in Somalia, where drought and clan war­fare threaten up to 2 million lives. 
"He has left a huge void," said CARE-USA President Philip Johnston. 
At a news conference an­nouncing his resignation, Sah­noun acknowledged he may have stepped on some toes when he criticized U.N. re­sponse to the Somali catastro­phe as slow and inadequate. 
But, he said, "I did it with no intention but to really make people aware of the situation and to fulfill their duties." 
After the news conference, the veteran Algerian diplomat left Mogadishu on a U.N. plane for Paris. 
Sahnoun's resignation comes at a time of increased clan fighting, which has imperiled the United Nations' new, 100­day crash program to increase the flow of food and other aid. 
As Boutros-Ghali's special envoy to Somalia, Sahnoun oversaw the relief efforts and peace talks. He recently was negotiating with warlords over deploying 3,500 U.N. peace­keepers to protect aid ship­ments. 
U.N. sources said Sahnoun felt the time had come to quit bargaining with the warlords and deploy the troops, but that that sentiment was not shared at U.N. headquarters. The sources spoke on condition of anonymity. 

Rebels fire rockets in the Liberian capitol 
MONROVIA, Liberia {AP) ­Charles Taylor's rebels fired rockets into the city center Thursday, hitting the interim government's headquarters, that of a West African peace­keeping force and an American school housing war orphans. 
Taylor broadcast warnings to residents to evacuate the be­sieged capital of this nation founded by freed American slaves in 1847. 
Two civilians were killed by a rocket that hit a gas station in a residential neighborhood Thursday afternoon, according to World Health Organization director Dr. Ruth Tshabalala of Swaziland. 
Five people were slightly in­jured in two other afternoon explosions, including a 20-year­old worker at the American Community School, where 313 war orphans were taken last week to protect them from fighting at a rebel base north of Monrovia. 
Ten rockets fell in the early morning hours, but no one was injured. 
Five nuns from Illinois were reported held hostage in their convent on the city's outskirts, their mother superior said. 
Nigerian-led peacekeepers fired back at the rebel-held iron factory where the rockets were being launched Thursday, but the defenders appeared de­moralized. 
"We're still pursuing a kind of conventional war and the pres­ence of civilians makes our task more difficult, while the rebels fight without consideration of civilian casualties," Biola Lawai, a spokesman for the peacekeepers, told The Associ­ated Press. 
The West African army, ap­parently expecting more rocket attacks through the night, broadcast warnings for people to stay on the ground floor of buildings. 
The civil war began when Taylor, a Liberian who had assembled rebel forces in Ivory Coast, invaded in December 1989. President Samuel Doe was killed and the West African nations dispatched peacekeep­ers. 
About 60,000 people have died in what grew into a tribal war, 40,000 of them of starvation during Taylor's earlier siege of Monrovia, in 1990. 

Jefferson  


Main & Jefferson Hours Mon-Th 11 a.m.· 11 p.m. Fri-Sat lla.m.-11 p.m. 

h. A F edB . Sun 4 p.m.-9 p.m 
Nota Franc tse• amt.1y O wn usmess 

257 ~ ! 100 
"This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" ~-Authentic New YorK PltZ2 
.:,Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs Dine In • Carry Out $2.00 off &ny ¥izza with Stud~nt ID 
The Castle & Co. Is Your New Wolf Tanning Center 
featuring:
•New 
Wolf Tanning Beds •Luxurious, Clean Private Hooms 

•Facial 
Tanners •Stereo & Body Cooling With Every Lounge 


272-0312 The Castle 
State Rd. 23 & Ironwood, Suite 1 a Closed Monday Minutes From Campus 

Rabin-voWs not to let violence impede talks 
JERUSALEM (AP)-Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. vowed Thursday not to Jet,,,tthe upsurge in violence along the Israel-Lebanon border disrupt the Middle East peace talks. 
"We will not allow the en­emies of peace to halt, to block the peace negotiations!' Rabin said. 
He blamed the Shiite Muslim Hezbollah, or Party of God, and its fundamentalist allies for attacks that have taken the lives of five Israeli soldiers and a 14-year-old immigrant youth since Sunday. 
In Lebanon, a roadside bomb exploded Thursday near Israel's self-styled "security zone" in the south. shattering a daylong calm and injuring tour members of the Israeli~, .• backed South Lebanon Army< militia. Hezbollah claimed responsibility. 
There also have been a spate of attacks on Israelis in recent weeks in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
Israel has said'the incidents ar~ aimed at undercutting the U.S.-backed peace talks in Washington, which are in recess until after the presidential election Tuesday. 
Rabin told the annual meet~ ing of the Jewish Agency, which assists immigration to the Jewish state, that any at­tempt to link continuation of the talks with an end to anti­Israeli attacks would be counterproductive. 
Such linkage, he said, "will serve only as incentive ... because it will signal to them (the attackers) that if they con.tinue, they might bring about a hatt;••a stop of the negotiations. "Rabin predicted again that there would be progress in the talks within six to 12 months. 

THE 
~o~DUE P~~O 
Featuring ~ Beef, Chicken, Seafood and 
Vegetarian Fondue Entrees Rel•jve I0<.1:_. off your dinner on Halloween if you come in cc-stum · 
A GREAT PLACE Fat DINNER BEFORE YOl..'R SY~MAL 
Upper Level Old Brewery 100 Center Complex, Mishawaka • Phone: 255-1526 Tue.-Thur. 5-9 p.m. • Fri.-Sat. 5-10 p.m. 
Reservations Appreciated 

Hair &Nail Studio 
OPEN 6 Days AWeek 
STUDENT SPECIAL 
$100 off a full sef of nails 289-4335 
2301 Mishawaka Ave., South Bend 5 minutes from campus 

Turnout may set record 
Bill Clinton yesterday accused early yesterday to jog through vulture perched on a tree limb. 
• SPRINGFIELD, Ill. -A record number of 
President Bush of saying "incredible Toledo's downtown streets and said it Bush, appearing on the CBS "This 
Illinoisans are expected to go to the polls Tuesday, and that has officials worrying whether there might even be enough ballots to go around. "On primary day, a lot of precincts were short of ballots at midday, and officials scrambled for ballots," said Ron Michaelson, executive director of the State Board of Elections. "Everybody voted." Michaelson noted that there is no provision in the election code to deal with a voter who at the end of the day has gone to his or her polling place only to find out there are no ballots left. Michaelson predicted Wednesday that statewide voter turnout may hit 80 percent on Election Day. 
Paper endorses Bush 
• INDIANAPOLIS -The Indianapolis News, a newspaper owned in part by the family of Vice President Dan Quayle, endorsed President Bush for re-election Thursday because of his foreign policy experience and his knowledge of the economy. The endorsement said Quayle has served Bush well as an advisor and "an articulate defender of conservative values." 
• The News is owned by Central Newspapers Inc., which is owned in part by the Pulliam 
family, which includes Quayle. 
Student covers campaign 
• CHICAGO -If persistence is a quality needed to be a reporter, 19-year-old political junkie Josh Fine should go far. The Chicago resident raised thousands of dollars from college radio stations and businesses to cover this year's presidential campaign on his own. His reports are geared to college students. with emphasis on issues such as AIDS, the environment, education and the economy. Warner Saunders of WMAQ-TV in Chicago said Fine is likely to end up on top. "He's the guy who's going to be running the news room in 15 years." 
dishonest things" about the Democrat's economic plan and Arkansas record and promised a full­scale counter attack that would "slam him home in the next five days." 
As the two rivals dueled in Midwestern battlegrounds, Bush said on national television that "the mood is entirely different out here." But Sen. AI Gore dismissed polls showing a narrowing gap between the candidates. "We have always said this race is going to be extremely tight." he said. 
Clinton, in pivotal Ohio, was up was time to escalate his criticism of Bush. 
"We're going to slam him home in the next five days about all these incredible, incredible dishonest things he has said about my record and my plan," Clinton said. "He has put ads all over America that are lies. ... He has made up charges about my record. He will say or do anything." 
Clinton's comments came not only after a narrowing in the polls but a fresh Bush ad on television in hotly contested states that pictures Clinton's Arkansas as a land of desolation and ends ominously with a Morning" from Michigan, renewed his theme of the last three days, that a summer spurt in economic activity "gives the lie to the recession." 
"It's not a depression and it's not a recession," Bush said in a broadcast from the Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn, displays of antique cars in the background. 
He said "the mood is entirely different" among voters from what it was a week ago and added that his campaign would continue airing ads attacking Clinton. 
"There's a consensus out there that we're on the move," Bush said. 
Regardless of outcome, race was Quayle victory 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Win or lose, the Dan Quayle emerging from this campaign is a far cry from the shell­shocked senator who Lloyd Bentsen dropped in his tracks four years ago. 
This year, Quayle has been striking his share of blows, especially in his truculent debate with Democrat AI Gore, where the vice president missed no opportunity to rip Bill Clinton apart. 
. It may not have endeared him to rank-and-file voters -Quayle's negatives jumped to 56 percent in a NBC-Wall Street Journal poll-but it was a shot in the arm for dispirited Republicans at a low point in the campaign. 
And soon thereafter, President Bush himself was out on the stump sounding the two themes -trust and taxes -that Quayle had hammered at every turn. 
"Nobody ever would have predicted that Quayle would overshadow his running mate. I think he's done that," said Democratic strategist Tony Podesta. "He's got a message. He stays on the message. He's working hard. Bush (has been) barely engaged." 
"His debate with Gore was the emotional turning point of this year's campaign," said Pete du Pont, an erstwhile -and possibly future ­Republican presidential hopeful. "He has erased a very difficult per­formance in 1988." 
Quayle himself calls the debate and his earlier, "unbowed, unbroken" speech to the Republican National Convention "the major turning points for me." 
"We've had a very good campaign. It will be a great campaign ­assuming that we win," he said in a recent interview on Air Force Two. 
''I'm basically an offense person, not a defense person. I don't like to play defense.... We're going to continue to play offense in 1992 ­and then we'll see what happens after that," he said. 
That's about as close as Quayle gets to discussing his post-election plans. 
If Bush pulls out a come-from­behind win, Quayle could be in the thick of the race for the 1996 GOP nomination. If Bush is routed, his running mate may be permanently scarred. 
"If George Bush loses handily, that's going to create a very serious if not devastating problem for Dan Quayle in 1996 -or beyond," said analyst Norm Ornstein. 
Quayle, 45, has run seven times before and never tasted defeat. 

This Year Give the Gift of Tradition 

Gounlry Ylorisl 
A Notre Dame Memory 
& 9if!s, 9nc. 23y 7Jennis 60.!0.5 Ql. c5. :JJ c5oulfi :Pfi. (2l!J )291-3!)37 
·Limited Edition 
c5oulli23end, 9nchana 46614 
Handcolored 
Se"d uhostl¥ a,..eeti"gs with the FTD Halloweel'\ "Boo-Qt-~e+" A l"l"al'\gemel'\t 
Prints 
by Ken David On Sale 

lt!Je 7Jef/uer 
-:­

291-3937
November 6 & 7 and November 13 & 14 
..

• 
­




HAPPY HALLOWEENr;-----------i1
· .c.._ .m 1Halloween Special1
lli0 I 10/31/92 ONLY I 
: Large Cheese Pizza : 
I I


$500
I -+Tax I ...IAddi[ional___________Toppings .95¢ each:~...I 
1No[ Valid Wi[~Any Oilier Coupon ~1 


271~1177 HOURS 
M-Th -I 1:00am ,1:00am Fri-Sat -I 1:00am, 3:00am Sun-Noon , 1:OOam


Free Delivery 
Poll shows race as a dead heat 
NEW YORK (AP) -For the first time since August, a major national poll shows the presi­dential race as a dead heat, but other polls show Bill Clinton leading by seven to 10 points. 
The attention-grabber Wednesday was the poll Gallup takes daily for CNN and USA Today. Clinton led by only two points, 40 percent to 38 per­cent for President Bush and 16 percent for Ross Perot. 
Those figures, which have a 3-point margin of error, were an average of results from polls taken Monday and Tuesday of 1,217 likely voters. At the time, the Bush campaign was pillorying Perot for making unsubstantiated charges about smear tactics and also touting a report of higher-than-expected eco­nomic growth. 
In a Washington Post poll taken Friday through Tuesday, Clinton had 44 percent, a 10­point lead over Bush's 34 per­cent, and Perot was supported by 19 percent. The poll of 1,837 likely voters had a margin of sampling error of just under 3 percentage points. 
The Post said its survey indi­cated that Perot's surge in sup­port since the presidential de­bates was leveling off and could hold steady. 
Of those who said they would vote for him, 88 percent said they support him strongly, compared with 79 percent of Clinton's voters and 74 percent of Bush's supporters. 
Game Day Special 
Every time the Irish score a touchdown, the first 10 callers to say "Notre Dame Scored," Buy one pizza and get one FREE! 
r--------­
Thursday, October 30, 1992 page 10 
Business 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Accounting firm representatives address keys to second interview 
Electric car research funded 
•WASHINGTON -Standing in the way of an electric car that is affordable and performs as well as a gasoline-powered vehicle is a battery fit for the job. A government-industry partnership yesterday awarded $54 million in contracts to three commercial battery companies and three national laboratories for development. J. Michael Davis, the Energy Department's assistant secretary of conservation and renewable energy said in a statement, "By including the research and testing expertise of our national laboratories as members of this vital technology development, we are fully utilizing some of this country's brightest scientists to explore the energy conservation and environmental benefits of future electric vehicles." 
Bristol-Myers to lay off 38.000 
•NEW YORK -Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. said Thursday it would eliminate 6 percent of the jobs budgeted for 1993 in its pharmaceutical and nutritional products group. 
The move, which will affect an unspecified number of the group's 38,000 worldwide employees, is an attempt to address the growing concerns over cost-containment throughout the health care industry. Bristol­Myers spokesman Jane Kramer stressed that the company is not laying off 6 percent of the group's workforce, although an internal memo to employees outlining the plan said a "number of employees will be affected." 
Check fraud cost banks millions 
•WASHINGTON -Check fraud cost commercial banks $568 million last year, most of it from forged checks, according to an American Bankers Association survey. T h e survey of 459 banks is the first of what the as­sociation plans to be an annual survey of what industry leaders believe is a growing problem. "All it takes is one experience to wake up a bank to the problem," said Robert B. McDon­ald, chairman of the association's Check Fraud Task Force and executive vice president of Riggs National Bank in Washington, D.C. "Waiting around could prove to be a million­dollar mistake," he said. "This survey will ed­ucate bankers to take the offensive." 
GM reports loss of $752.9 million 
•DETROIT -General Motors Corp. reported a third-quarter loss of $752.9 million, less than expected but still a glaring reflection of the crisis that has engulfed the leading automaker. GM's results, blamed Thursday almost exclusively on the slow recovery of North American auto sales. came as GM grapples with the abrupt resignation of its chairman earlier this week because of the company's relentless losses. 
Jobless rate holds below 400.000 
•wASHINGTON -The number of new claims for jobless benefits in mid-October held below 400,000 for the fourth straight week, the government said Thursday. Some analysts believe the unemployment rate may fall if claims stay below 400,000. The rate was 7.5 percent in September. "I think it's a ray of hope that the labor market may be showing signs of improvement in October," said economist Stephen Roach of Morgan Stanley & Co. in New York. The report also was welcome news for the Bush administration, with its handling of the economy on the line in an Election Day just five days away. "Today's initial unemployment claims report continues a trend pointing to an improved labor market," said Labor Secretary Lynn Martin. "Claims declined by more than 
1.000 in 15 states and increased by more than 1,000 in only one state. All of this indicates a stronger labor market. .. 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
Business Writer 

In preparation for the second interview you should reflect on what is important to you and listen to people to see if the firm meets the personal requirements that you set for yourself, according to John McDonnell, a recruiter for the Peat Marwick firm in Chicago. 
"Once you get called back for a second interview the focus shifts in your favor," McDonnell said. Because the firm makes both a monetary and time commitment, he said, when they invite you to the office, you are treated like "a king and queen for the day." 
The personnel and the atmosphere of the firm are two things to observe while visiting the office, he said. "Do people say hello to each other in the hallways, or is the environment rigid and stiff?" asked McDonnell. 
Be sure to meet the seniors, partners, and staff because these are the people set the company's atmosphere, he said. "You should be comfortable working with the seniors especially because you spend 80 percent of your time with them at the beginning,"McDonnell said. 
Next look at the how the firm assigns you a starting position and handles promotions, he said. For instance, see if the firm focuses on each individual or if one person controls an entire group of people with the "bullpen approach." 
Secondly, ask how the firm recognizes performance, he said. "Does the firm recognize individual performance, or is a class of people promoted according to a set chain of progression?" asked McDonnell. 
At Peat Marwick, people are divided into different groups of combined specialties to encourage a personalized atmosphere where individuals are rewarded, he said. "Your interests change as you are exposed to more things, so the group system enables us to provide an early 
Second straight record budget deficit will limit next president 
WASHINGTON (AP) The government is reporting a second straight record annual deficit, which analysts say will combine with more red ink this year to limit the next president's options for stimulating the stagnant economy. 
The $290.2 billion imbalance for fiscal year 1992, which ended Sept. 30, marked a 7. 7 percent increase over the old record of $269.5 billion, set in 1991, the Treasury Department said Wednesday. 
According to government projections, the news will get even worse in the just-started 1993 fiscal year. Taking into account Congress' delay in providing more money for the bailout of the savings and loan industry, the administration predicts a deficit of $309 billion, while the Congressional Budget Office foresees $296 billion in red ink. 
As much as the next president may want to cut taxes or raise spending to stimulate economic growth, he will have to worry about worsening the deficit and spooking the bond market into driving interest rates higher, economists said. 
That could have the unintended 
MUNSTER, Ind. (API -An agreement hailed by federal regulators as "historical" has been reached to reduce toxic air pollutants from coke ovens in Indiana and 1 0 other states. 
The agreement signed this week by industry representatives, environmentalists and the government should be a major step toward clearing the air in northwest Indiana's steelmaking region. 
William Reilly, administrator of the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, called the agreement reached Wednesday "an historical development in the steel industry." 
The EPA had brought the parties together to negotiate the pact, which meets and sometimes exceeds provisions of the 1990 Clean Air Act requiring utilities and heavy in­dustries to drastically reduce emissions from power plants and manufacturing facilities. 
"The standards are not as low as we would like to have them, but they're much higher than industry wants effect of dousing economic growth instead of stimulating it, they said. 
Economist Sung Won Sohn of Norwest Corp. in Minneapolis said bond traders have sent interest rates higher even before the election out of fear that Congress and the president will let the deficit spin out of control next year. 
But economist David Munro of High Frequency Economics in New York said Democrat Bill Clinton, if he wins the presidency, may surprise observers by opting for deficit reduction over stimulating the economy. 
"When you get down to brass tacks, it's better for him that 1993 be a tough year than 1995 or 1996," Munro said. 
Clinton said Wednesday that he hoped independent candidate Ross Perot, who has made deficit reduction a centerpiece of his campaign, would play some role in a Clinton adminis­tration. 
As high as the 1992 deficit was, it still was far less than the Bush administration's January forecast of $399.7 billion and also below its mid­July prediction of $333.5 billion. 
'Historical' agreement reached 
diversification for our staff people," said Jackie Taghon. recruiter for Peat Marwick. 
You should also inquire about the evaluation and counseling process in the firm, he said. Be aware if the firm "sends you to the showers or evaluates you personally" when you make a mistake, McDonnell said. 
With regard to job training, McDonnell said, does the firm just throw you out to the wolves, or do they teach you with real life examples and situations? 
"These questions are important because they speak of the firm's flexibility and the available opportunities," he said. 
Don't let the firms pressure you into making a decision, he said. "You hold all the cards, so you can weigh all the options and make a decision that's best for you," McDonnell said. 
The ND Accounting Association sponsored this lecture. 
them," said Charlotte Reed, assistant director of Save the Dunes Council in Michigan City. 
The agreement requires emission reductions at the 86 coke operations in 11 states, including Indiana. Three operations are utility-operated in Indianapolis and 10 are at northwest Indiana steel mills. 
Officials said the estimated cost to industry nationally could range as high as $510 million. 
In mid-November, the EPA will propose regulations based on the negotiated agreement. The rules will be published in the Federal Register and will become final law after a public comment period. 
The new regulations are not expected to require steel mills to buy new equipment. Instead, the plan calls for better maintenance, repair or rebuilding of existing equipment. 
Coke ovens -where coal is converted into fuel to produce steel and iron ore -have been particularly heavy polluters. 
Insurance industry ailing from Andrew 
NEW YORK (AP) -Insurers have done a good job of touting the collective $160 billion they have to cover the unprecedented losses from Hurricane Andrew. 
But look closer at individual 
companies, and the country's most 
costly natural disaster represents 
anything but an easy exereise in 
check writing. 
The storm that ravaged south Florida in late August is likely to reshape where and how some insurers do business as well as how much homeowners pay for coverage. Damage estimates, which have been revised upward 37 per­cent to $10.7 billion, mean the fallout from the hurricane will be felt for years. 
Consider some of Andrew's far­reaching effects: 
-In Florida, five small insurance companies representing about 60,300 policyholders have failed. 
-Standard & Poor's Corp., a leading evaluator of corporate financial strength, has identified another 25 insurers, mostly small ones, likely to be affected "significantly." Some could fail. 
-The Florida Insurance Guaranty Association, the industry-supported state fund that protects policyholders, is down to its last $30 million, and that's dwindling. 
Hurricane losses are expected to erase the estimated $14 billion in profits, investment income and capital gains the industry was on track to report for 1992, though some companies will be hurt far more than others. 
The financial hit follows a string of expensive disasters beginning with Hurricane Hugo and San Francisco earthquake in 1989 and continuing with the Oakland, Calif., fires and Los Angeles riots earlier this year. 
It also comes at a time when insurers are having a tough time making money on their own investments because of low interest rates. 
Viewpoint 
--~ 
·1 

Friday, October 30, 1992 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager .....•.. Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ........••..• Michael Scrudato Production Manager .•....•.. Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ...........• Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .•.••.••••••••Patrick Barth Photo Edltor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ............••.•••••• Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ............•........... David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
page 11 

1': ",. , 
l(ETURN\NG AT ~ QUARTERBACK,
NUMBER 3.,.. 
'· u ... :~~ ..'· 

~\~---~-·· ___..::-........~~"""""""---~­
~~ 

Benefits of 'Rudy' filming 
Rating system of 'evils' needs work worth the inconvenience 
Dear Editor: I do not understand where ceived in rape? Would you side I am responding to a state­you came up with the audacity with the rapist in forcing the
Dear Editor: dreamed of. 
ment made by Robert E. Payne to share that statement with the woman to raise that child dueIn reference to the cartoon It will make every NO student (The Observer, Oct. 8) that Notre Dame community. to your belief that abortion is athat appeared in the Oct. 16 is­proud to be able to point up to "abortion is even worse of an Furthermore, what is the point? far worse evil?
sue of The Observer depicting the big screen in their own local 
evil than rape or slavery."
the film crew of "Rudy" in an movie theater with his or her Can I infer that if you were on Would you rather rape aunfavorable manner, I would hometown friends and say Upon what is this profound your way to a Right to Life woman or enslave anotherlike to point out that, as Notre "That's where I go to school." 
rating system based? It is defi­protest, and first saw an human being than take yourDame students we should ap­So maybe a few of us will nitely not based on the emo­enslaved human being, then girlfriend, sister or daughter topreciate the unique opportunity have to walk 10 feet out of our tional trauma felt by a slave, a passed a woman being raped, an abortion clinic if it were herthis film represents for the way to prevent "Just Do It" ads victim of rape or a woman that you would swiftly walk by decision to do so? 
school and we should be more from appearing in a film taking faced with the decision of abor­these violations of human dig­than willing to put up with the place in the early 70s. 
tion, because you cannot begin nity? That picketing the walk­In your "top ten evils," what isslight inconvenience a film And if the film set atmosphere 
to comprehend this trauma. way of an abortion clinic in cold-hearted ignorance rated? 
production on campus may or appears a little tense, keep in hopes of changing the mind of a 
may not present. mind that each shot is costing You have absolutely no idea very distressed woman who hasIn a time when it is not un­the production hundreds and 
as to what people faced with already made her decision to Annie Linehan common for the images of the hundreds of dollars, as you 
these horrible situations are terminate her pregnancy takes Siegfried Hall Pope to be ripped up on na­know, even in Holywood..."time 
feeling. Have you ever been precedence? Oct. 10, 1992 
tional television, an opportunity is money!" 
raped, enslaved or pregnant? I What about the scenario of afor people in this media driven Rather than complain about 
doubt it. woman aborting a fetus con-society to see the qualities of the inconvenience of having a our Catholic university, outside film crew on campus, as mem­of Notre Dame Saturday on bers of the NO community it's in 
'Strange silence' maintained by Bishops? 
N.B.C., is more than welcome. our best interests to be as I have had the opportunity to supportive as possible, because 
Dear Editor: sin? The Church teaches that communicate any Catholic leg­actually view a few days worth this film may be the first oppor­three conditions must be pre­islator who voted to supportof rushes from the film and can tunity for much of America to Catholic Canon Law states sent for the commission of a abortion.
honestly say our campus looks see Notre Dame without a $core 
that accomplices to an abortion mortal sin. Abortion is a very seriousincredible in the rich colors of next to it. 
are automatically excommuni­matter. The Catholic voter must 35 mm film. From the Grotto to cated and have committed They are: serious matter, realize that a sin is committedthe Stadium, this film portrays Michael Canzoniero 
the campus better than the Carroll Hall mortal sin. Accomplices in­sufficient knowledge and full when casting a ballot for a pro­clude those who directly pay for consent of the will. Many abortion candidate. 
black and white movie: "Knute Oct. 20, 1992 
an abortion. Catholics have not reflected on
Rockne: All American" ever 
the moral implications of voting A reaction to this assertion, 
It is this Catholic's for pro-abortion candidates. positive or negative, constitutes discernment that Catholics and Moreover, the political sufficient reflection and full all who vote for pro-abortion shepherds and their clerical consent of the will. Hence, the candidates are also accom­sheep have failed to provide individual who persists in plices. The hierarchy and aca­explicit instruction about this voting for a pro-abortion demic theologians have not monumental issue of justice. candidate commits a mortal sin chosen to make this declara­when the lever is thrust down. tion, but matters of faith and A "strange silence" is being morals are the primary domain maintained by the bishops. of the Church, not the secular, Long ago, the preachy prelates Joseph E. Vallely godless state. should have excommunicated Third Order Franciscan 
the traitorous pro-abortion Oct. 10, 1992 
If a Catholic votes for a pro­Catholic legislators! Only the abortion candidate such as archbishop of Guam has demonstrated courage by mitted. Is this action a mortal' asserting that he would ex­

DOONESBURY 
SIR, YOUR WN6 
INWI..VfM!NTIN MAKI/117 CfJVei<T 
FfJt.fCY SPtAKS 7D 

--~=----7H& ISSIJ& OF "71?U5T"Y()()K£5P 1?.415/NG.., 
I 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
YOUR ACTIONSSeeM TO 5()6­GWT 7HAT YaJ THIN!< 7H& AMifRICAN PfiOPlE 5HaJIJJ7li'lET YOU 70W ANYTHIN60N 71-IE/1?. 8tHAIE; &VE!!N IF IT~ 5l!iCI?ffT, CON­WARY 70 STlfTW ~~YPOUCY, ANI?/Uif64/.... 1'371-IAT FAIR7lJ S&IY¥'  N0,8USY WPI£ IUHO llON'T HAV& T/MiiRJ1? 7HEIR OUIN5l!CR&T MISSION9. ANI?, He!, I UNCJtR­§TANf? 7HJfT.  'To walk into history is to be free at once, to be at large among people.' Elizabeth Bowen  
Live large, submit: QUOTES. P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556  

t­
t 
Viewpoint
page 12 Friday, October 30, 1992 
George Bush resorts to 'scratched-record' logic 
Somewhere or other, Freud talks about a thing which, if I remember correctly, he calls "scratched record logic." Here's an illustration. Your roommate's significant other borrows your favorite record (or CD). No problem. 
But then one day you get back from class and there's your record with this nasty, gnarly deep scratch in it, sitting on your desk. Couple of minutes later the obvious culprit shows up, looking for your roommate. 
His up-beat tone of voice is especially irking. You show him the record and wait for an explanation. In a nervous tone of voice, he tries three consecutive lines of defense: 
1. 
"Hey, I know what you're thinking, but when I gave you back that record it was in per­fect condition." 

That's his first defense. But since he sees you're looking skeptical, he tries again: 

2. 
"Oh yeah, here's your record back. Hey, you know when you lent it to me it had this nasty scratch in it. See?" 


Obviously, this only fuels your suspicion, and he gives it one more crack: 
3. "Say, isn't that the record I wanted to borrow from you, but never got around to borrow­ing?" 
logic." Somebody messes up and then tries to defend himself by appealing to a number of mutually contradictory claims. 
What's funny about it is that any one of these defenses refutes the other' two. What's pathetic about it is that this desperate appeal to mutually contradictory lines of defense is really an admission of guilt. Moral: always suspect the guy who resorts to scratched record logic. 
Which is why so many Americans are suspicious of George Bush these days. He's been· resorting to scratched record logic in trying to explain why the economy is so messed up. 
You're looking at some of the bleack stats on this damaged economy (like, for instance, the diminishing number of jobs for college grads) and in walks Ge­orge Bush (finally back from overseas). 
You're like, "Yo Ge­orge-what's the story with this economy?" You're not threat­ening him, maybe you're not even angry, but you do want a straight answer. 
Well he's got three answers for you: 
1. "Our economy is doing just fine, and I'm proud to take credit for that fact." 
Andrew Cutrofello 
Subterranean Homesick Politics 
messed up this economy." 

3. "The economy? Oh yeah-you know, I never really got involved with that whole thing. But that's something I'd like to address second term." , Sound familiar? George Bush has been resorting to this kind of scratched record logic throughout the campaign. 
As with any scratched record defense, any one of these re­sponses could make sense-at least in theory. But each one is so implausible that there's this need to bolster them with other responses. 
Trouble is, when you pile them all together they simply don't add up. The reason: George Bush is not willing to take his share of responsibility for messing up the economy. 
How gullible would we have to be to vote for George Bush on the strength of his views about the economy? We'd have to be prepared to say something like this: 
"It's OK, George. We know you're responsible for this great economy which is so messed up because of the Democrats and which you haven't had anything to do with yet anyway." 
In other words, if you're vot­ing for George Bush because of his stand on the economy, please come see me about a certain bridge in Brooklyn I'm looking to unload. 
At this point in the campaign, of course, probably .no one is so foolish that they are going to buy Bush's scratched record logic on the economy. And he knows this. 
So in recent weeks he's tried another tactic: "broken record logic." I don't know if Freud talks about this (I'd have to go back and look at his stuff on the repetition compulsion), but here's an illustration of the basic idea. 
A bunch of us have decided to go to a movie, and the majority have agreed to go see "Under Siege." But one person, who has made it abundantly clear she would rather see "The Mighty Ducks," mentions that they sell really bad popcorn at the theatre where they're showing "Under Siege." 
"It's really bad popcorn," she says. 
Her point is duly noted by the rest of us. She goes on to say, periodically, things like, "We're talking the worst popcorn in Michiana. " and "It's fine with me if you don't mind eating stale, no-butter popcorn." 
It's pretty obvious what she's up to. By taking some small is­sue and repeating it over and over, she's trying to make the rest of us think it's some super­big issue. 
This is the essence of "broken record logic"-say something repeatedly like a broken record and hope that eventually you can change people's minds. 
As if by the thirtieth time, the rest of us would suddenly smack ourselves on the fore­head and cry, "Great God in boots! We can't go to a place where the popcorn is so bad! Turn around! I change my vote to-The Mighty Ducks.'" 
George Bush-that mighty duck-has been resorting to broken record logic in the last few weeks. He knows the rest of us have decided to vote for someone else, and so now he's trying to call our choice into question by doing the broken record thing. "I think character makes a difference," has been his maRtra. "Character is important." "I don't know-I just think character makes a big difference." 
OK, we get the message. And, to tell the truth, I agree with the President on this one. Clinton does have a character problem. To me, the clearest example of this came when he refused to grant a stay of execution to a retarded man who had been sentenced to death i.n Arkansas earlier this year. 
It seemed pretty obvious that Clinton was willing to let a man die just to prove he was tough on crime. Damned if he was going to let the Republicans pull a Willie Horton on him-he'd execute a Willie Horton. 
Unfortunately, this kind of character problem is endemic to our political system, and Clinton is certainly not the only one in this campaign who lets his politics dictate his morality. Witness Bush's handling of the plight of the Kurds, to take just one obvious example. 
While it would be wrong for me to suggest that Clinton's politically expedient morality is just an incidental factor (like the bad popcorn), it would seem a joke to argue that Bush's character is any less tainted. 
The sad fact is, as everyone knows, that all politicians are immoral in one way or another-but this is a problem that can only be addressed through a radical transformation of the system. In this campaign, it seems to me that we would do better to focus on the moral stakes that are involved in the issues them­selves. 
Vote for Bill Clinton. 
Andrew Cutrofello is a pro­fessor of philosophy at Saint Mary's College. His column appears every other Friday. 

Localizing Congress would improve American government 
Election year is .a time when many Americans think about their government. The candi­dates, amid their potshots at each other, talk at great length about the problems that face the country and how they would handle those problems. 
The airwaves and hallways are full of commentary and questions about who would best lead the country. After the election we are all usually so sick of this topic that we are happy to ignore the government for the next four years. 
But the past few elections seem to have made people be­gin to think a bit differently about the government. Although the present state of the economy is probably not the crisis Democrats like to think it is, neither is the outlook as positive as Republicans say. 
Americans seem to think that the government has developed a set of bad habits that cut across partisan lines. The will­ingness of Americans to listen to Ross Perot suggests that the time is coming when major structural or institutional changes in our government will seem feasible to most Americans. 
Unfortunately, Ross Perot is not the man to institute these changes. The pitiable perfor­mance of his running mate in the vice presidential debates pointed up how much the Perot campaign depends on the charisma of its namesake. 
That charisma has not been translated into any specific plan or platform except a dubious and potentially ruinous program to eliminate the deficit in five years. The oddity of the Perot campaign derives partly from the contrast between his striking diagnosis of structural problems in the government and the absence of feasible proposals to deal with these problems. 
The mainline candidates cannot achieve this oddity because they cannot pretend consistently to criticize as un­workable the very roles they hope to fill. • 
As a first step to institutional change, I would like to suggest we get Congress out of Wash­ington. I do not mean that we should elect an entirely new body. 
I mean literally that our representatives and senators should not be in Washington, 
D.C. Their offices should be centrally located in their dis­tricts, and all the business of the Congress should take place electronically. 
One objection to this proposal is that it would be so inconve­nient for our congressional representatives that it would be impractical. The newly elected representatives learn from the old hands, and the president needs to confer with his party and the opposition from time to time. 
But with information 
technology as good as it is, there is no reason why these meetings could not take place via television conferencing, 
Michael Byron 
Guest Columnist 

which is as close to a physical meeting as one can get. 
Committee meetings could take place the same way. Voting and legislation could all be handled with e-mail. Dedicated fiber optic connections could handle the volume of information and improve security. 
Another potential threat is that the executive branch would be left' alone in Washington with all of the power. But this is not quite right: the Congress would retain all of its constitutionally mandated powers, including its checks on the other branches of government. 
The only difference would lie in how it conducted its affairs. In this age of information it is not necessary to be present at events in order to see them and know what is happening. 
It seems clear, in any case, that the presence of Congress in Washington has not entirely prevented the abuse of execu­tive power. 
The advantages of this pro­posal outweigh these potential drawbacks. The productivity of our representatives could be increased dramatically, since travel time would be cut. 
Going to different meetings would be a simple matter of dialing a new number. It is easy to underestimate how much of a representative's valuable time is wasted strolling the halls of the Capitol. 
More staff work could be handled by district volunteers, since their representative's of­fice would be around the corner. This would cut operat­ing costs and help to shorten the length and expense of campaigns. 
Since representatives would only rarely leave the district -say, for joint sessions in Washington to honor visiting heads of state -they would not need four months or more every two years to reacquaint the public with themselves. And local media would have easier access to both the representative and the office staff, since they would all be around the corner. 
Localizing Congress would have the further advantage of improving the field of candi­dates, perhaps making them more "representative." 
I mean that the candidates would no longer need to be people who are willing to give up their home, friends, community and so forth in order to go live in a large, dangerous and humid city. 
If being in Congress no longer involved dislocation but instead just a different commute, we might see a rather different kind of candidate. 
But perhaps the greatest ad­vantage of this proposal is that it would exactly reverse the re­lationships that lobbyists and constituents enjoy with con­gressional repres~ntatives. 
Constituents could drop by the office and speak to their repre­sentative (this would be less practical in large districts like Montana, but it's still quicker to drive from Kalispell to Helena than to Washington). 
Lobbying. on the other hand, would be all but impossible in person-imagine flying around to 535 offices around the country! -and so lobbyists would be practically limited to calling and writing. 
This arrangement gets the priority right: give easy access to constituents and make lobbying more difficult and thus less effective. 
I have been suggesting that with the technology available to us the idea of a "seat" of gov­ernment is outdated. The pro­posal to "localize" the Congress is not a major structural change, since it leaves intact the roles that congressional representatives play in gov­ernment. 
It does, however, mean to alter the way in which representatives, constituents and lobbyists interact, and to this extent it would change the way Congress did business. 
Were this measure joined to further efforts in the direction of fiscal responsibility, it would go a fair distance toward im­proving the actual running of the government. If Ross Perot's candidacy is any indication, this is the sort of "change" Americans are beginning to demand. 
Michael Byron is a graduate student at the University of Notre Dam_e. 
--------~------~-----~---~­
--------------~-------------.~------~~------------------~--~ 
Viewpoint
Friday , October 30, 1992 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
I write in response to Edward Vasta's disturbing article (The Observer, Oct. 12), wherein he attempted to depict football as the embodiment not only of Notre Dame values, but of the ultimate and eternal aspirations of Christianity itself. 
On one point, I agree with him entirely: the purpose and the attraction of football cannot be argued through reason alone, if at all. With his principal point, that football possesses some higher significance, that it is more than mere recreation, I feel obliged to take exception. 
Indeed, there seenis to be an alarming and regrettable ten­dency by many on this campus to imbue organized athletics with an almost cosmic impor­tance and to pour energy, re­sources and enthusiasm into it, which can only be described as immoderate and profligate. 
Vasta began his defense of football with an exposition on the yearning or aspiration for excellence which has been a defining feature of Christian piety for centuries. For him, the quest of the human soul, or rather the human person, is to cultivate perfection spiritually, intellectually and morally. 
We are impelled toward this goal because of the divine imprint on our nature. Football is a game which requires a certain mental acuity and a high degree of physical adroitness. To achieve these, one must practice untiringly. 
The playing of football at Notre Dame is preceded by prayer and the reception of the sacrament; the players thus dedicate their performance to God. By Vasta's criterion, therefore, Notre Dame football is not just recreation. but represents the true purpose of Christian life itself. One might even call it an act of virtue. 
Where Vasta has erred gravely is in equating Christian value with the striving for ex­cellence. The true purpose of Christian life, after redemption, is the struggle for obedience to God's will, and it is imperative to remember that the things we prize in this world are not necessarily the things prized by God. 
Certainly, we are called to use all our talents fully and to exercise our minds, our hearts and our bodies. But we must be cautious not to be immoderate in any one of these areas; we must test everything we do by the standards God has given us, and we must be very careful not to deceive ourselves into believing that because we pray about our pleasures or conse­crate our activities to God that they are just or virtuous. 
The Conquistadors, after all, were excellent warriors, who prayed for success in battle and even baptised the Native Americans they slayed. But would anyone claim that what 
Dialogue did not maintain level of journalistic integrity 
Dear Editor: 
While John S. Barry's Oct. 15 Letter to the Editor ("Administration's 'zero-sum') makes some legitimate points about the ongoing undergrad­uate -teaching-vs.-research­university debate, I find his re­sponse disturbing because he misses the point of Professors Leege, Roos and Manier's let­ters. 
These letters were written in defense of their colleague, Suzanne Marilley, the subject of Dialogue's dubious award "granted to those administra­tors and teachers who could not care less about the Notre Dame undergraduates" (September 1992 issue). 
We all know and care about the ongoing debate and, yes, there is shared sentiment of distress about this issue. How­ever, the point of the letters particularly by Profs. Leege and Roos was not so much-as Mr. Barry would have it-to offer an. opinion about the teaching-vs.­research dilemma. or to justify their positions as faculty caught up in this debate, or even to bring "this all important debate into this forum (the Observer)." 
Rather, the letters call attention to the Dialogue commentary as being less a critique of the Administration and more of a mean-spirited at­tack on one particular teacher. When the reputation of a person is at stake, conscientious journalists know to tread care­fully. The writer or writers of this commentary flirt with libel. 
What is disturbing about the Dialogue commentary is the lack of journalistic integrity. On one hand, the apparently quoted material is questionable. For example: "Test papers and regular class assignments were returned unexcusably late due to 'deadlines' and 'other com­mitments."' 
The actual context of these quotes is unclear; and if students have actually made such statements, quotes should be attributed. The entire Dia­logue commentary should have been attributed as well, if not to one specific author then to the Dialogue editorial board. (Can we assume that this is the opinion of the majority of the editors?) It is policy in most if not all print media to have edi­torials signed, otherwise those commentaries are not printed. 
What is most troublesome about Mr. Barry's response in the Observer is that he tries to smooth over the attack on Prof. Marrilley by using the under­graduate-teaching-vs-research­university debate as a smokescreen. He does not even consider the possibility that Dia­logue may have acted hastily and risked someone's reputa­tion. 
The teaching-vs.-research debate has great merit and is crucial for the future of Notre Dame. Let the debate roar on, but instead of resorting to witch-hunts, so-called journal­ists need to take responsibility for presenting the facts before maki~g charges. 
The Editor's Note of that Sept. 1992 issue of Dialogue says that "During the past three years the editorial staff of Dialogue has maintained its commitment to high editorial standards and insightful journalism." In the case of the commentary about Prof. Marilley, Dialogue has unfortunately forgotten about journalistic integrity. 
Cecilia Lucero Academic Advisor 
Oct. 28, 1992 they did was virtuous? 

And Bernard of Clairvaux, in his zeal to be a perfect instrument of God, urged the Second Crusade and delighted in the persecution of heretics, assuming that what was good for the papacy was good in the eyes of God. Let us not make a similar mistake by casting our enjoyment offootball into an act of Christian devotion. 
But an even more important point to be made is that there is a sinfulness in the immodera­tion with which we follow and support organized sports. Now, I am not speaking of amateur events in which we ourselves before. the conspicuous fostering and encouraging 
participate nor of those consumption and the. them. matches or games in which prodigality of tail-gating, and And what is even worse is friends or family take a part, the renewed imbibing of the that academics like Vasta, who 
but of professional, semi-pro­post-game celebrations or should know better, are 
fessional and college athletics. wakes. endeavoring to justify this dis­
Each year, millions, nay bil­Considering then that soluteness through sophistic lions of dollars are poured into organized sport is vicarious arguments and appeals to me­
these programs. Salaries are recreation which in no way diaeval mystics like Bernard of 
paid, tickets are bought, wagers contributes to our own physical Clairvaux. are made and expensive trips well-being, how is it that we Vasta is right to point out that undertaken, all for the sake of can justify this incredible ex­reason alone cannot determine pleasure. In addition to money, penditure of time and money? our values, but neither can we 
organized sports generate an Think about how much might trust solely to "personal enthusiasm all out of proportion be accomplished if we were to experience or the witness of to their value. devote even half of these re­memory" to guide us in this 
Hours are spent in stadiums, sources either to personal task. Rather, we must seek out in front of television screens, achievement or to the amelio­God's will as it has been and over newspapers and ration of society in general. revealed to us in Scripture and magazines, as sports fans Viewed in the light of this strive to apply it to the ex­endeavor to keep abreast of the criterion then, football at Notre periences of life. latest scores and to view as 
Dame reflects not Christian many of the games as possible. idealism but societal immodera­Brian Perry Beyond this is the entire ritual tion. Rather than challenging Graduate Student of the game itself: the festivities the priorities of the larger so­Oct. 26, 1992 and the intoxication of the night ciety, we at Notre Dame are 
Secular prestige comes at high price 
Dear Editor: tie-as something sent to the cal and practical atheism, etc. 
I am writing in response to world, as well as something I am not unaware of the the recent visits to our campus partly shaped by the world. genuine developments, whether by Kathleen Kennan and Prof. Christ did not become incar­human or scientific, that have James Turner, who have nate and suffer a bloody and also occurred in this century claimed that the best way for ignominious death as a slave for alone, nor do I believe that Notre Dame to continue as a the mere sake of dying; surely previous centuries were Catholic University is for her to He wished the fact of impeccable. embrace more wholeheartedly Redemption to take root in But what needs discussion is the secular vision of a univer­people's hearts, so that such whether or not this century has sity and secular ideals in gen­people could overcome the made real progress in the eral. world. strictest sense of that term, or if 
I do not intend to address any In short, Christ came to it is, in fact, a century marked of the specific claims in this let­transform the world, a world from its inception to its ap­ter; Turner's paper, for in­always steeped in error and sin, proaching end by barbarities. stance, deserves a full academic rather than transformed. No If it is determined that the response, not a mere retort in a one denies that Church latter case is truer, then I find it newspaper. practices have been influenced most troubling that a Catholic 
Nevertheless, I do think it by the environments of aposto­University (or any other sane important that an underlying late, and that they always will organization) would want to supposition of both Kennan and be. consort familiarly with a secu­Turner's be brought to light, On the other hand, we should lar world capable of such mon­before anyone judges the merits not deny that the Catholic strosities. at any rate, this of their adeptly-made cases. Church claims it is a transcen­question of the genuine value of 
In short, both Kennan and dent institution as well as a modern secular accomplish­Turner believe that the way for human one. Like its Groom, the ments does merit discussion. Notre Dame to go is to embrace Church is both human and di­But might not a Catholic Uni­the "realities of the world." vine. versity, understood not merely They may mean many things by Secondly, I find it question­as one at which approximately this. able that there is much in the "half of the faculty are practic­
I believe I am not amiss to say modern world that the Church, ing Catholics," as Kennan and that at least one of the chief and consequently a daughter of Turner would have it, but as things meant by this is that the Church such as Notre one that is fully heir to over· two Notre Dame should ensure that Dame, should learn from thousand years of wisdom, her students be taught, on an modernity. human and divine-might not "equal" basis as it were, the Let's take a little role call of such a place be the ideal one to modern (post-modern) ways of the great human accomplish­evaluate this all-important thinking on issues as well as the ments of this century alone: question? venerated Catholic insights. WWI, WWII, countless other "Seek first the Kingdom of 
In short, according to their wars, the constant threat of nu­God and then all things will be approach, Notre Dame must clear annihilation, genocide in yours." Notre Dame does not adopt modern ways of thinking China, the former Soviet Union, have to renounce the quest for and teaching, if it is to play any Cambodia, Nazi Germany, secular greatness. She can love role in the development of solu­Ethiopia, etc., the legal murder­God, and then all things will be tions to distinctively modern ing of over 25, 000,000 of the hers. But I am not alone in predicaments. most defenseless human beings fearing that to seek secular 
Stated thus, the proposal of in this nation alone, the rise of prestige above all will result such people sounds utterly rea­pornography and its consequent both in a loss of God and that sonable. But several things profound degradation of very prestige. could be left out of the picture. women, the systematic 
In the first place, one may destruction of the family, mur­Jon Beane find it disconcerting that the ders abounding in our inner ci­Department of Philosophy picture drawn by Kennan and ties, the increase in the gap Oct. 19, 1992 Turner fails to depict at all the between the poor and the rich, role of the Church as an apos-the escalation of both theoreti­
--~----.-~--------~--~-------~ 

OCTOBER 30-NOVEMBER 1 
weekend Calendar
}r'·· .· .· .. ·= 
MUSIC 

Freddie Jones Band, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m.Ha_ppy Catastrophe Band, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 9:30p.m.
Dysfunktion,Ciub 23, 1op.m. .. 
~::;.p.. 
EVENTS A· ,., 

Waiting For Godot, IUSB, Sr)::~237-4203.
Extricationist Matt -Kallta, Cluq P?,.879·0505, 
MUSIC 
EVENTS 

Waiting for Godot, !USB, 8 p.m., 237-4203. Craft Show, First Baptist Church, 9a.m.~3 p.m., 
291-4141. 

s 
y 
MUSIC 

Cello Concert, Little Theater, St. Mary's, 4 p.m. Karaoke, Club Shenanigans, 8 p.m. 

een 
Zoo Boo. Potawatomi Zoo, 6·9 p.m., 288·4639, Friday. Mishawaka Jaycees Haunted House, Indian Ridge Shopping Center, $2, 7·1 0 p.m., Friday. Fright Night, movie marathon, LaFortune Ballroom, 
11:30 p;m.-6:30 a.m., Friday. Pumpkin Trains, Kalamazoo, departs 1 and 3:30 p.m., 
(616) 657-7037, Friday and Saturday. FOP Haunted House, Dunes Lodge, $3, 6·1 0 p.m., Friday and Saturday. . Niles Haunted House, Bell Road, Niles, $3, 7·10 p.m., Friday and Saturday.Haunted Farm, Derksen Farm, $2, 7-11p.m., 773·4651, Friday and Saturd;ty. Forbidden Forest, Lemon Lake County Park, Crown Point, $3,6:30-10 p.m., Friday and Saturday. Haunted Trail, Luhr Nature Center, $2, 6:30·9 p.m., Friday and Saturday. "Ghouls and Ghosts, Spirits and Shadows ..., Snite, 
10:30 a.m., Saturday. · Haunted Trail, North Village Mall, $3, 6:30·9:30 p.m.,Saturday. · w Pumpkin Decorating Contest, UP Mall, $250 prize, 
-~~---~-·-~----------~------~-~--­

Appalachia projects help America's forgotten poor 
By DONALD MODICA Accent Writer 

M 
ore than 100 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students experienced not only artistic foray into pic­turesque highlands, but a unique-and increasingly popular-chance to make a cross-cultural journey within their own country. 
And it was a chance to give a little along the way. 
The Center for Social Concerns (CSC) Appalachia Social Concerns Seminar, a one week donation of time, money, and hard work, has grown at Notre Dame, mostly by word of mouth, into one of the most popular service projects available to students since its conception in 1981. It qualifies as a one­credit Theology seminar offered in both the fall and spring semesters. 
During this past fall break, students travelled to nine different sites scattered through West Virginia, Tennessee and Ken­tucky. 
The project is viewed by supervisors and 
the students  as  a  chance  to  serve  for  
personal  enrich m ent  rather  than job  
training.  

Skill requirements are deliberately vague as well as eclectic. 
"Students will spend a good bit of time putting new roofs on houses or building a structure such as a birth center at the New River Health Association," said program supervisor Jay Brandenberger. 
In addition to repairing homes, students do things such as visit a coal mines and try to understand the issues of the area, according to Brandenberger. "It's a nice combination of service and learning," he said. 
He explained that the program raises awareness of a poor area of America that re­mains largely forgotten. 
"There is a tendency to talk about the urban poor, and certainly L.A.," he said. "But there's also a rural poor and they don't make quite as much news," 
The area's chief industry is coal mining but increased automation has cost many residents jobs. Because of the regions mountainous terrain, sand, and poor road conditions, planting and transporting of grains was impossible; Therefore, tobacco used to be the chief crop; but health concerns of recent decades have cut that income drastically. 
The result has been the creation of an area with economic stagnation and little exchange with other parts of the country. And parts of the Appalachian region have fallen on hard times but have been largely ignored. 
The programs first excursion took place during the spring break of 1981, when Lewis Hall rectress Mimi Baker organized a small, informal group to help some of the local social organizations in the region. Student interest increased and the size and scope of the project grew rapidly. 
Today, the project is primarily run by the students who have participated in programs through the CSC. Applicants are assigned various sites in the region and site co­ordinators are selected by the esc whose du­ties are to "stimulate group enthusiasm and cohesiveness before, during, and after the trip". 
Junior Megan Swiderski was site coordinator for the group assigned to the Glenmary Volunteer Farm in Kentucky. She stressed the varied nature of the work done by the group she led: construction, helping at an old age home, feeding farm animals, and playing Uno at a mental outpatient center. 
Fellow junior Bill Whitlatch was assigned to Cranks Creek Survival Center, also in Ken­tucky, an area hit recently by severe and devastating flooding. 
"It was a real experience to see a different side of my own culture," said Whitlatch. The 
Camp 

By MARA DIVIS Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
0 
ctober Break, typically 
relaxation, offered an Notre Dame and Saint channel service efforts on experience in disadvantaged nation and local eiTorts within the 
Prompted by requests for he men-including two Notre Dame Miami area, a group of Notre travelled to South Florida to do in communities dBvastated by according to sophomore Mike that the group concentrate reconstructing houses destroyed 
Arsenault, who co-coordinated with senior John Mackie and Kathleen, said that the destruc South Florida shocked the students. 
''I'd characterize it as still commented Arsenault. "We went saw a lot of destruction. The was about 20 miles south of strips of houses where -roofs damaged." 
Arsenault said that the small groups to work on the group accomplished work on He·added that the community's appreciate their effort, after reserved at the beginnning of the 
"When they realized what we really opened up to us," he said. Arsenault said the students the experience, and that groups in 

----~-~---~---~-~----­
Irish Football 
NOTRE DAME vs. 

A Supplement to The Observer 
GAME NOTES 
Navy (0-6). 
KICKOFF: 12:10 p~m. EST. 
TV and RADIO: WNDU-(Jeff Jeffe 
,, 
lanked the Midshipmen•.. 38~~·-a Notre Dame Stadium. -· ­

r . q 
LAST WEEK: Notre Dame topped BYU, 42-16. while Navy lost to Division l·AA power Delaware~. 37• 21. 
FYI: Following the Navy game. Irish close the season with en 
ainst three teams ranked m: the AP Top 25: 11th-ranked Bosto College {6-0..1), 14th-rated fenn State (6-2) and 13th-ranked USC (4­1-1). 
Reggie Brooks is 15th in tb country in: rushing with a 109; 
SCHEDULES 
NOlREDMIIE 
September5 September 12 September 19 September 26 CXtober 3 CXtober 10 CXtober 24 CXtober31 November? November 14 Novemrer 28 
at Northwestern W42-7 
MICHIGAN  T17-17  
at Mdlgan State  W52-31  
PURDUE  W48-0  
STANFORD  L16-33  
at Pittsburgh  W52-21  
BYU  W42-16  

at Navy~ BOSTON COLL. PENN STATE at USC 

NAVY 
Septemrer 12 V1RGINlA. L0-53 Septemoor 19 at Boston College L0-28 Septemrer 26 RUTGERS LQ-40 CXtober 3 at North Carolina L14-28 CXtorer 1 0 at ,Ajr Force L16-18 CXtoOO' 24 DELAWARE L21-37 CXtorer 31 Notre Dame (Meadowllrlds) ­November 7 TULANE Novemrer 14 VANDERBILT Novemrer 21 at Rice Decemrer 5 Amry ~~ 
JJ 
Invisible Warrior 
Senior Justin Hall excels on offensive line 
By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 

It isn't often that an offensive lineman gets the same kind of recognition a "skill" player, like a running back or a quarterback gets. But they do get their satisfaction in different ways. 
"We feel we get our recognition when we look up at the scoreboard and we see a victory to our side," said tackle Justin Hall. "We like to watch the film and basically see if we beat the other team up. We like to go out and get physical. 
"We like to look at the statistics and see how many rushing yar_ds we had. If we had more passing yards than we do rushing yards, we feel as an offensive line that we haven't controlled the line of scrimmage." 
The use of the plural "we" is important, because the offensive line, as much or more than any other group on the field, needs to perform as a unit. If four guys make their blocks but one misses it, the result can be a big loss. 
Hall, a fifth-year senior, uses "we" often. At 6-4, 297 lbs., he is an integral part of an offensive line that is again one of the strong parts of the Irish attack. The rushing game averages 288.1 yards per game, and the Irish backs owe a great deal to the offensive line. 
"I think offensive lineman were born to run block," said Hall. "It's a lot of fun to do, and we feel like we didn't accomplish anything at the end of the game if we didn't control the line ·of scrimmage." 
As a fifth-year senior, Hall decided he had to take a leadership role on this football team. 
"I made a commitment to myself and my teammates that I was going to be one of the leaders on this team, not just the offensive line, but the entire team," he said. 

Hall is something of a unique case in that he played enough to monogram on the '88 National Championship team his freshman, but not so much that he used up a year of eligibility under NCAA guidelines. 
After playing significant minutes in the first three games of the season, he broke his ankle in practice before the Stanford game, ending his participation for the season. 
But being around the team that season gave Hall a look at a couple of future NFL star linemen in Tim Grunhard and Andy Heck. It showed Hall what it takes to get to the big time. 
"One of the things is how much heart you have. The guys in the past have had so much heart, Grunhard, Gene McGuire, Mirko Jurkovic, they love to play the game of football and they had a lot of heart. I think that's one of the main reasons they went into the pros," Hall said. . By his third season, he was a starter, but missed several games due to back problems that required surgery the next spring. The following season, he didn't start two games after having had a intestinal order. 
But so far this season, Hall hasn't missed a game and is intent on keeping it that way. 
"In recent years I haven't gone a full season without being injured, but this year is quite different. So far I haven't missed a game yet because of an injury, and that's a good feeling, but I try not to let that bother me." 
That experience helps in other ways as well. Having a fifth-year senior on the line steadies the unit. 
"He's experienced," said offensive-line coach Joe Moore. "He's seen everything, all the fronts, in all the situations." 
Part of that learning process for offensive linemen is proper technique. 
"Coach Moore, when we watch films, can. see if we're pushing a guy or If we're blocking a guy. There's a difference. Pushing a guy is getting your hands on him and taking a step back. Blocking a guy is getting your pads under him, driving him five yards back and putting him on his butt. That's when you know you got the job done," said Hall. 
You might say that Hall has football in his blood. His father, Skip, was an offensive lineman at Colorado, and has been a supporter of Justin's. 
"He's been behind me all the way," Justin said. 
In fact, his father's ties might have influenced his college decision just a little bit. His father attended the alma mater of one college football coach, a guy named Lou Holtz. Skip Hall graduated a few years after Holtz did, but the two had an encounter at an all-class reunion at East Liverpool (Ohio) High School. the summer before Justin's senior year of high school. 
"I guess people started telling Coach Holtz that Skip Hall had a son who played football in Texas, and I got introduced to him," said Hall. Holtz did some homework, and a year later Justin ended up beneath the Golden Dome. 
His team in Plano, Texas, won state titles his final two years of high school, and Hall 
see HALL/page 4 


The Observer/Jake Peters 
...runs like this. 

r--­
! By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Editor 
On paper tomorrow's Notre Dame­
t Navy matchup looks no better than Miami-Florida A&M or Washington­Pacific. 
I t Nonetheless Irish coach Lou Holtz is still concerned about the winless Midshipmen, largely because of past Notre Dame teams' troubles on the road against Navy. 
I "Four years ago, in Baltimore, our
I 
offense didn't show up. Two years ago, at the Meadowlands, our defense didn't show up," Holtz recalled. 
However, the Irish won both games, 22-7 in 1988 and 52-31 in 1990. 
For Notre Dame not to do the same tomorrow, both its offense and defense will have to be missing. 
Navy has been severely affected by injuries this season, and the Middies' coach George Chaump has been forced to restructure his entire backfield. 
Things were so bad for Navy earlier in the year that it went three games (Rutgers, North Carolina and Air Force) without its top four returning running backs. 
This was after the Middies lost their top two quarterbacks for the season, including sophomore Jim Kubiak, in their frrst two games. Kubiak started five games as a freshman, and completed 13 of 16 passes to lead Navy to a 24-3 win over Army. 
As a result, junior Jason Van Matre, who began the season as the team's starting tailback, has been moved back to the quarterback position where he started Navy's first six games in 1991. 
"Van Matre and their fullback (Cleavon Smith) are the nucleus of their offense," Holtz said. 
Smith, the team's second leading rusher behind Van Matre, and tailbacks Duke Ingraham and Billy James will compose the Navy backfield. The two 
KEEP YOUR EYES ON ... 
page 2 Notre Dame vs. Navy Friday, October 30, 1992 
Midshipmen outclassed on both sides of football 

Irish quarterback Rick Mirer, shown here against Stanford, will try to sink the Midshipmen. 
tailbacks, who have both missed time is not very often, his primary targets are this season with injuries, will most likely split end Tom Pritchard and flanker Mike share time, as this is Ingraham's second Jefferson. Pritchard leads the Middies game back and James' first. with 18 receptions, while Jefferson has 
"Their offense does a lot of things to turned in the longest play of the year for keep the ball away from you," Holtz Navy-a 63-yard scoring strike from added. VanMatre. 
The Middies could have some trouble After going scoreless through its first controlling the ball behind its three games, the Middies' offense has inexperienced offensive line, which does shown some signs of life in recent weeks, not feature a lineman with more than but will be hard pressed to put up the 31 one letter or over 285 pounds. points it did in its last trip to Giants 
When Van Matre goes to the air, which Stadium. 
Therefore, the Navy defense, which Holtz called the Midshipmen's "best defense since I've been at Notre Dame," will be forced to hold the country's third­rated total offense in check. 
The leaders of the defense are co­
captain Chad Chatlos and linebacker 
Javier Zuluaga. 
Chatlos, who led Navy in tackles and interceptions in 1991, is featured in the newly-created "anchor" position, which allows him to function as a linebacker or a defensive back, depending on the play­by-play situation. 
Chatlos is well-suited for this spot because his natural football knowledge. 
"He is a very instinctive player," Navy safeties coach Ron Harris stated. "It's like he is in the quarterback's head." 
Thus far Chatlos has adapted well to the position, picking off three passes and recording five tackles for losses. 
Zuluaga, a junior from Indianapolis, leads the Middies with 51 tackles and 36 assists. He has started every game this season, after winning the job with an impressive performance last spring. 
Last week against Delaware he had 14 solo tackles, and a sack, earning a spot on the East Coast Athletic Conference weekly honor roll. 
As a whole, however, the Navy defense has been very inconsistent. Though it has held Glenn Foley-led Boston College to 28 points and Air Force to 18, the Midshipmen have also surrendered 53 points to Virginia and 40 to an erratic Rutgers team. 
Opponents are averaging over 200 yards per game both in the air and on the ground. 
Despite Holtz's praising, the Irish should be able to score quite a few points, either behind its third-ranked rushing offense or Rick Mirer's arm. 
The nation's longest continuous intersectional rivalry should continue the way it has gone the past 28 years, with an Irish win. 

JASON VANMATRE 
The junior quarterback­tailback earned the starting QB job after a string of injuries to the Navy quarterbacks. Van Matre completed 7 of 17 passes for 51 yards last week. 
JAVIER ZULUAGA 

Junior inside linebacker is considered one of the strengths of the Navy defense. Zuluaga leads the Middies in tackles with 87 stops including 21 against Delaware last week. 
TOM PRITCHARD 

Sophomore split end has caught at least one pass in 15 of the 17 games he has played. Pritchard leads Navy in receiving this year with 18 catches for 235 yards and one 
CHAD CHATLOS 

Senior defensive back is back as anchor for the Navy secondary. Last year, he led the Middies in interceptions with five. Chatlos has three interceptions already this year. 
CLEAVON SMITH 

Junior fullback is a powerhouse in the backfield for the Midshipmen. This year, Smith has rushed for 226 yards on 52 carries and two touchdowns. 
touchdown. 
DEPTH CHARTS 
When the Midshipmen have the ball 
r 
l I 
~ 

When the Irish have the ball 
SPLITENO 

17-t.oa-
Irish 
TACKU 1-1.212• .Ill. 

offense ~--m10T" 
71l-MikiMcG~nn 
~i\:·G':i.n'-. 
6-5,28V,SO. 
H.N Becton 5-11,100,50.

5r.lft~ 
FULl.BACK
..__ 
li-11.2114,.111. 
1·0olnlyt1e 
6.2~"' 
5-11, 
5-11. 185, Sll 
STRO!IG S.IFEIY
.._,.., 
J.1t,1ll,.llt 
~­
6.1.195.90. 
llldshipll•l
defense 

---~-~-------------------------~-­
Friday, October 30, 1992 Notre Dame vs. Navy page 3 
McDonald's decision to return lifts Irish 

By JENNY MARTEN Devon McDonald decided the NFL made it final. When he came to the United States Associate Sports Editor could wait. "It's a feeling. In my life, I have feelings from his Jamaican birthplace in 1981, he It didn't feel right. and I didn't feel right leaving. If you and his brother saw football being The amenities that the National His twin brother Ricardo graduated work hard something good's going to played and wanted to try it out. The Football League offers are often times from Pitt in May and now is enjoying the happen, said McDonald. "I sat down and Paterson, NJ native decided to enticing enough to make touted college NFL life and playing for the Cincinnati compared the pluses and the minuses (of concentrate on defense in high school football player skip out of school before Bengals. Ricardo's new job gave Devon staying) and the pluses won. and has been striving to learn and senior year. the opportunity to use his final year of "Everything happens for a reason. If I improve as much as possible ever since 
With more and more players doing it eligibility at Notre Dame. He also had had gone to the NFL last year, I might then. these days, it is rare for the household some brotherly advice for his twin. have gotten cut." "The game is always changing. There's names of college football to decide to "He told me that once you make .your So, McDonald is back on the gridiron so much to learn, said McDonald. stick around longer and even more so to decision, make it final. Don't second in Notre Dame Stadium, with the worries "I always want to be doing my best. I have a big name who has already guess yourself," said McDonald. of the classroom behind him, getting know I have only tapped the iceberg of graduated come back for a fifth year. McDonald made his decision. And he more comfortable, more experienced my potential. I'm a world away from 
and more recognized. where I want to be. You're never where It feels right to have him back. you want to be. You always need to In the last three years, he has improve." 
established himself as one of the premier McDonald has made great strides since defensive ends in the country garnering arthroscopic knee surgery in January of honors along the way. His toughness and 1990 which kept him out of spring drills physicalness on the field have earned that year and limited his playing time in him the respect of coaches as well as 1989. With the usual determination that every quarterback he's flattened. McDonald shows. he battled back from 
Barry Alvarez, a former Notre Dame his knee problems. assistant head coach who is now the "There are times when everyone has to head coach at Wisconsin, worked closely work through some injuries and with McDonald and knows how tough he problems. He showed what type of can be. person he is by not using his knee 
"John Palermo (former Irish defensive problems as an excuse and worked hard tackle coach) and I used to say that he to prepare himself to play again," said plays just like a piece of gristle," said Al­Alvarez. varez. McDonald met Alvarez in his recruiting 
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz has trip to Notre Dame and the two hit it off been impressed with McDonald from the immediately. Alvarez's encouragement beginning. helped McDonald feel comfortable 
"As a freshman, I thought he was playing for the Irish. really going to be special. I think the fact "He just made me so relaxed. If you that he came back this year has made made a bad play. he wanted us to set if for a very fine year. He's really been a up again and make it next time. positive factor on our football team. "He'd say, 'If you think you can make When we've had difficult times on the the play, go ahead and make it' and that defense, he's really come through for gave you confidence because he'd giving us," said Holtz. you confidence," added McDonald about 
Although quiet and pensive off the Alvarez encou~aging his players to take field, McDonald himself admits that he chances on the field. enjoys the physical nature of the game of Alvarez came away from his football. experience at Notre Dame with a high 
"Where else can you hit somebody and opinion of McDonald. get paid for it," said McDonald. "I like "He's a great individual. He really the feeling when I get a sack because its impressed me when we recruited him like no other feeling I've ever felt. and I visited with him. He's a solid 
"Football's a game I love to play. person and a gentleman. A real credit to Football's the only thing I've done all the Notre Dame and his family," said years I've been in the country." Alvarez. 
Today's academy looks for more than wins from Middies 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
commitment. the rigorous aca­Sports Writer demic program at Navy is one that many cannot adapt to. 
While a 1-16 record over two According to Murphy, even seasons is hardly the staple of a political science and economics top-notch football program, it is majors must take courses like looked at in an entirely different electrical engineering. physics, light at a school like the United advanced calculus, and me­States Naval Academy. chanics. 
Though the Academy has "The biggest thing we're hav­produced 29 first-team All­ing to overcome is a low aca­Americans, two Reisman Tro­demic retention," said Murphy, phy winners, including Hall of as he explained how many Farner Roger Staubach and is Midshipmen cannot make it ranked 23rd in total victories through these required courses among Division I-A schools, the Roger Staubach during the junior year. "As a priorities for the Navy football result we're having to play a lot 
same position at the University
program have since been of freshmen and sophomores, so 
of Maryland for nine seasons.
altered. we're not on equal grounds with 
Making the transition from
The Midshipmen have not other teams. The fact that 
other schools into the Naval
won a bowl game since 1978 every Midshipmen has to take 
Academy. he knows full well the 
and have suffered through nine those classes-it's a bear." 
roadblocks that stand in the
straight losing seasons, and as a Despite all of these hurdles,
Academy's way to becoming a
result, the goals of head coach Murphy feels that Navy does 
top program again. 
George Chaump, his coaching have a lot to offer to prospective
"When you have to recruit
staff and the rest of the student-athletes, including a 
across the nation, the biggest
Academy's athletic department stellar academic program and a 
thing that you deal with is the
are different than at most great all-around athletic expe·
commitment after graduation,"
programs. rience. These are the type of 
noted Murphy, who also earned
Rigid academic requirements things that the coaching staff is 
his Master of Arts from Notre
and a required stint of military trying to stress to recruits as service after graduation have Dame in 1969. "Talking to they try to resurrect the Navy Courtesy of Navy Sports Information kept the program a step behind young 18-year-olds about football program. Navy quarterback Jason VanMatre will lead the Middies offense. 
anywhere from a four to six­
other football powerhouses, and "The benefits that an educa­through the highly disciplined spective at a school that is 
year commitment, to him that
made recruiting top athletes to tion from this institution can academic program that they forced to recruit top students to 
seems like an eternity. But
the school next to impossible. As provide in the future job market have to adhere to leads them to the Academy before it .attracts 
really it's not that long a time,
a result, the program has to be are overwhelming," stated a lot of opportunities in the fu-athletes to the football team.
and it's really a good experience 
satisfied with producing Murphy, who earned five air ture." "I don't know if that can hap-
to have. Those leadership
Academy graduates instead of medals while serving in Viet· It is this type of commitment pen with the academic re­
situations you're placed in give
worrying about All-Americans. nam. "If a person is interested to the individual student that quirements, but we just want to 
you qualifications that not too
Current Navy assistant coach in a military career, then we keeps hope alive in the Navy be more competitive," said 
many other people have." 
Dennis Murphy is a 1963 grad­have the programs for those football program-the hope that Murphy. "We have to be posi­
The problem is convincing
uate of Notre Dame, and was a who want to fly. There's those one day they may couple this tive, be very active in recruiting, 
athletes that all of the trouble is 
coach for the Irish from 1968-who develop that and for others academic tradition with a and just recruit as many people
worth it, especially when the
74. Before becoming the de­that may not be a priority. football program that is as im-as we can and continue to 
program is not winning games.
fensive line coach at Navy this Nonetheless, the benefits de­pressive. But for now, they just convince them of the qualities~
In addition to the military
season, he previously held the veloped as a result of going have to keep everything in per-and benefits Navy can provide." 

page4 Notre Dame vs. Navy Friday, October 30, 1992 
-, Smith ready for anything 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR luck against Navy, but Smith is be to play football in the NFL; Associate Sports Editor sure that he will see quite a bit anything that happens after that of time Saturday. is a decision I'll have to make in 
Irv Smith has to be prepared "We have five offensive the future." for anything. starters out this week," said Smith is looking to follow 
As a tight end, Smith must be Smith. "We're looking at this former Irish tight end Derek ready, on every play, to hold game thinking that the offense Brown's footsteps into the NFL. back a defensive end, crush a will play four quarters, the de­Brown was the 14th pick of last linebacker or haul in a Rick fense will play four quarters, year's draft, and is currently Mirer pass with his soft hands. and the kicking team will play struggling to earn playing time But preparedness and versatil­four quarters. with the New York Giants. Even ity are qualities that Smith "But it would be great to give last season, when talk of Brown brings to every game. the younger guys a chance to dominated discussion of Notre 
Smith has caught only ten play and to get some experi­Dame tight ends, a quiet group passes this season, but has ence, because they'll be the was already saying that Smith shown his increasing skills as a heart of the offense next sea­was the better football player. run blocker for Thunder and son." But despite the positive signs Lightning, better known as Smith hopes to please his fans he is receiving about his future Jerome Bettis and Heggie Saturday with the flashes of in professional football, Smith is Brooks. brilliance he has shown leery of counting his NFL 
"I catch the ball better than I throughout his consistently su­chickens. block. God gave me the talent to perb career. The brightest flash "I try to focus basically on this do that, and I have developed was likely Smith's 58-yard pass season," said Smith. "When you
-it," said Smith, a senior. "Run reception last season against look at another goal, you might blocking is difficult for me. It's Indiana, which he finished by overlook what you're doing the most unnatural thing I have dragging four Indiana tacklers right now. to do, so it's been tough to twenty-five yards into the end "I have a lot of goals I still learn. But every week, I work zone. want to accomplish. I wanted to on it, and I see improvement Irv's older brother Ed will be win a national championship, each game." one of those fans at the Mead­and I am still going to work 
Lou Holtz has seen the same owlands Saturday. Ed Smith hard to get as close to that as improvement, calling last was close to Irv's career at we can." week's performance against Notre Dame when he was a Smith has also taken the re­Brigham Young the best game member of the South Bend sponsibility of counseling the of Smith's career. White Sox during the 1990 sea­younger tight ends, especially 
But Smith hopes to top that son. Since then, Ed has moved freshmen Leon Wallace and game this week in East Ruther­on to AA ball. Pete Chryplewicz, on their new ford, N.J., when Notre Dame "He's in the middle of the off­lives at Notre Dame. plays Navy. Smith grew up and season from his season with a went to high school near double A team in El Paso, "Looking back to my freshman Trenton, N.J., and expects to Texas," the tight end said. "He'll year, I had Frank Jacobs and have a huge following at Satur­be at the game, too." Derek Brown to help me out," day's game. But his brother's profession is said Smith. "They were there 
"I haven't played in New Jer­not the younger Smith's only tie for me, not only on the field, but sey since my sophomore year, to the sport of baseball. An personally as well.
..,.. 
when we played Navy there," outfielder for the Notre Dame "I try to help Leon and Pete said Smith. "It's a good way to baseball team during his with their problems. With foot­end my college career, in my freshman and sophomore years, ball it gets tough-not only home state during my senior Smith twice had two-home run athletically, but academically year, when hopefully I'm at my games during a sophomore and socially, as well." peak. season in which he started 27 
"I have about 25 people com­games. Smith never knows what ing to the game, from family to And in a time when two-sport problems he will face with the schoolteachers." athletes are on the verge of be­players he has taken under his 
But Smith's entourage may coming a passe trend, Smith wing. But if his versatility and not get to see much of the 6' 4", discounts any possibility of re­preparedness as an adviser 250-pound NFL prospect. De­entering competitive baseball. mirror the qualities he brings to spite his size, he may just get "Personally, I am not looking the Irish football team, then the lost on the Irish sideline once to play baseball now," Smith Notre Dame tight ends of the the game is out of control and said. "After the season ends, my future are being handled with the scout offense is trying its first and foremost priority will soft, capable hands. 

school weren't limited to the Hall hopes to have the same "Justin should play for a lineman, the emphasis is gridiron, though. He also had chance. professional football," said on the unit. 
Hall 

his share of success on the mat, "I've been told many times Moore. "We just want to dominate where he lettered all four years. that I have the ability to play in Part of that confidence is due people from here on out, andcontinued from page 1 Junior and senior year brought the pros. The way I'm going to the improvement Moore has hopefully be one of the best was showered with post-season state titles in wrestling, about it now, if I play the best seen in HalL offensive lines in the country byhonors. He was ranked on the including a sensational final football I can and help Notre "He's really solid and steady. the end of the year," he said. 
USA Today second-team All­
year that saw him go 16-0 with Dame any way I can, the other He's starting to become 
American list and was ranked 13 pins. stuff will take care of itself." aggressive," said Moore. "It takes five guys up front to 
the second-best prospect in 
With the success he's had at Coach Moore, who knows a Looking long-term, Moore said get the job done. We've still got
Texas by the Dallas Times­
the collegiate level, and the thing or two about professional that Hall "can be an excellent a long way to go before we can Herald. 
success his former teammates linemen, having seen all of his player." consider ourselves a dominant Hall's athletic talents in high have in professional football, charges get drafted, agrees. But for now, as it needs to be offensive line." 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS (PLEASE, NO WAGERING) 
are compiled as to how each Jenny Marten Mike Scrudato AI Lesar Jim Vogl Doug Tammaro Rolando de Rich Kurz --person does against the spread. Associate South Bend Assistant Sports Aguiar Associate
Sports Editor Information Associate
Home teams are in CAPS. Sports Editor Tribune Sports Editor Sports Editor
42-40-2 Assistant Sports Editor

43-39-2 42-40-2 33-35-2 34-48-2
Last week's 36-46-2 
MIAMI 21 over West Virginia 
guest:1 0-4-0 SYRACUSE 20.5 over Pitt Hurricanes Mountaineers Mountaineers Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes MOl ntaineers 

BOSTON COLL. 30 over Temple Orangemen Orangemen Panthers Orangemen Panthers Panthers Ora1 gemen Michigan 28 over PURDUE Eagles Owls Owls Owls Eagles Eagles Eagl s 
Boilermakers Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolv rines
NEBRASKA 5.5 over Colorado Wolverines Wolverines 
Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes Huskers Buffal es
Penn State 8 over BYU Buffaloes Buffaloes 
Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittan Lions
WASH'TON 12.5 over Stanford 
Huskies Cardinal Cardinal Huskies cardin...
Huskies Cardinal
Florida State 7 over VIRGINIA 
Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles ·Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles
Georgia 5 over FLORIDA 
Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Gators Bulldogs Bulldogs Gators
Texas A&M 25 over SMU
-Mustangs Mustangs Aggies Aggies Aggies Aggies MustangsTenn. 13.5 over S. CAROLINA 
Vols Vols Vols Gamecocks Vols
Vols Vols
Usc 5 over ARIZONA STATE Trojans Trojans Trojans Trojans Trojans
Trojans Trojans
AUBURN 8 over Arkansas 
Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Razorbacks Tigers Tigers 
Notre Dame 38 over Navy Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 

...-~----------------------~ 
page 15 
• 

sgroups oner relief to hurricane victims 

is a good time to reflect and put perspective, he added. 
Dame tends to be a homogeneous ity in which it's very easy to get too with grades and school, according 
tch. He saw the project as "a re­that there are other people with lives and are a lot worse ofT than The program was a good reminder 
for the projects are taken for slots but enthusiasm is listed criterion. Those participating 
d orientation meetings and do reading as preparation. 
come from all colleges, and the is taken pass/fail but, "most aren't so they can put it on their tran­
is the biggest constraint on the as budget limitations force the reject almost half the applicants. 
in the project, students are to pay a fee of $90. These proceeds rds rental of the vans used as tation down to the sites, gasoline, 
d materials used in the repair and 
done on site. 
a week of 
ortunity for 's students to d both hands­ctions of the munity. 
from three iuates-in the ne students .ruction work :ane Andrew. ault. He said roofing and ~ hurricane. :ampus effort ckle's wife, 
of much of 
devastated," bus tour and e worked in \there were completely 
livided into td that each ven houses. t.nts came to somewhat 
welcomed them warmly. "The (Notre Dame) alumni club down there really welcomed it," he said. "They gave us hats and t-shirts and a barbeque one night on the beach. That was really unexpected." 
Mackie agreed that he and the other students were very happy with their work, but felt a sense of frustration in the face of such massive destruction. 
"Compared to the problem that's down there," he said, "we took a tiny bite out of it." 
Several groups on campus helped to fund the effort. Arsenault and Mackie acknowledged the donations of Hall Presidents' Council, Keenan Hall, and Pangborn Hall. Mackie noted the sacrifice of Anthony Travel in particular, who helped finance the bus transportation. The Center for Social Concerns gave the project assistatnce and advice; Susan Cunningham of the CSC also accompanied the group as a chaperone. 
In addition to the project that offered hands-on help, several other groups are currently working on donation drives and relief efforts on campus. 
Saint Mary's Sophomore Katie Bradley, coordinator of service and fundraising for the Saint Mary's Sophomore Class Board, said that the Sophomore Board is running a donation drive to help the victims of Hurricane Andrew in South Florida. She had heard about several Hurricane relief efforts in need of help, including a drive for personal care items for the victims. 
''I'd heard about this project from the Red Cross," said Bradley, a Florida native. "I thought it would be a good way for people to get involved. It was 
Washington seminar examines government's response to poverty 
By MARY SCHULTZE 
Accent Copy Editor 
W 
ith just two weeks remaining until the 1992 presidential election, an election which has focused primarily on the state of the economy, 22 Notre Dame students traveled to our nation's capital to examine the government's response to poverty. 
As one of the fall seminars organized by the Center for Social Concerns (CSC), the Washington, D.C. seminar entitled "Poverty and Democracy" challenged the students to "become aware of urban blight and the complexities of economic inequalities," said seminar leader Mark Thomas, a graduate student in the Department of Government. 
The theme of the seminar reflects this year's esc theme on urban poverty, which developed from the disturbance of the Los Angeles riots. 
Although the seminar took place during the week of Fall Break, preparation began months before. Each student submitted an application explaining his or her interest in the program, and what goals he or she hoped to achieve from the experience. 
After being accepted into the seminar, participants attended three information sessions, which served to introduce the participants to each other and to the topic of the seminar itself. Through guest lecturers and various reading materials, the students familiarized themselves with poverty and the government agencies they would visit. 
The group departed for Washington, D.C., early on Saturday, Oct.17, in two tightly packed vans. After 12 hours of driving through the hills of Ohio and Pennsylvania, the vans safely arrived at the Capitol Hill Presbyterian Church, whose basement became the lodging and dining facilities for 

-

"It's been a few months since it's hit," she said. she hopes that students will continue to donate "There's no national focus, but people are still items such as toothpaste, soap, tissues, and other 
-
the group. 

The location also provided a first-hand look at economic inequality as there were homeless people outside the church who stood in direct contrast to the affluent image projected from the offices of the federal government. 
The group used Sunday to tour the monuments and museums of Washington, D.C., look for possible internships, visit graduate schools and become accustomed to the Metro system of trains and buses, which served as their principle means of transportation throughout the week. 
In the evening the student group joined the Washington D.C. Alumni Club for mass and a pizza dinner at Armand's on Capitol 
'I wanted to see how government is handling poverty. Unfortunately, right now I don't think the response is successful.' 
-Cindy Chan 
Hi . 

During the week, the students discussed poverty with representatives from several government agencies such as the House Select Committee on Children, Youth and Families; the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities; and the National League of Cities. They also attended the National Conference for U.S. Bishops. 
"The presentations were interesting but they mainly gave statistics on how many people were in poverty. [The government agencies] didn't say how we could get out of it," said seminar participant, junior Cindy Chan. 
Students learned about different efforts to combat poverty. The Downey-Hyde bill being considered by the U.S. House of Representatives proposes to help eliminate the poverty caused by the ineffectiveness of collecting child support. ­
Currently, over $1 billion in child support has not been paid. The bill suggests that child support money from neglectful parents could be taken through the In­ternal Revenue Service (IRS). 
The researchers at the National League of Cities explained that a major contributor to urban poverty is that businesses have moved away from the cities. In order to en­tice businesses back to the urban landscape, city governments need to increase services and decrease taxes, but this also increases a city's budget deficit, according to Thomas. 
Although a variety of solutions to poverty exist, getting the money, means, and sup­port to implement the plans remains a problem. "We learned about different plans, but carrying out [the solutions] is where we [the government] get stuck, " stated Chan. 
Apart from the group meetings and discussions, the seminar also devoted one day to helping in soup kitchens and delivering food to victims of AIDS. 
Chan summoned up the experience and said, "I went on the seminar because I went on Urban Plunge, Appalachia, and a summer service project and saw poverty first-hand. I wanted to see how government is handling poverty. Unfortunately, right now I don't think the response is successful." 
The Washington, D.C. seminar is conducted annually during Fall and Spring breaks. Interested students should contact the Center of Social Concerns for application information. 
something that was close to home."  trying to put things back together. I've seen the  personal belongings.  
doing, they  Bradley said that the damage to Florida has been  damage before. The beaches have eroded. They're  "If people could really support this project, it  
overwhelming, stressing that although the media  pretty much gone."  would be great," she said. "What little we do get  
positively to 1 Miami area  emphasis has shifted away from the effects of the natural disaster, the damage remains the same.  The drive runs through today, and Bradley said that although the response has been fairly positive,  will make a difference. It's a good feeling to know that you're helping someone out."  


Is the American Dream only a dream? 
page 16 Friday, October 30, 1992 

"For a transitory enchanted moment," wrotf' Fitzgerald in  Father Robert GrJffln  money. Believing that office holders can be sincere when  burned on the lawns of black households, he should include  
The Great Gatsby, "Man must  they promise  to  serve  the  the other great prejudice in  
have held his breath in the presence of this continent...face  letters to a Lonely God  Dream is an optional way of taking the high ground, open to  America, the one that has lead to rampant gay-bashing, both  
to face  for the last time in  Catholics who hate abortion.  rhetorical and physical."  
history with something .. much ruin to earth's second commensurate to his capacity Eden. for wonder." The American Dream, if it The new world discovered by were to be a myth you could Columbus was so lovely, the trust, was not something which explorers and early settlers WASPS . could principally quickly dubbed it the New reserve for other WASPS like Eden, which could best be de­themselves. Nor can its benefits scribed in the way the Bible de­merely trickle down to lesser scribes Canaan-a land of milk whites, like the Irish; and from and honey. Despite the great them, to the other members of suffering and the many deaths the rainbow coalition. that took place in those early To be honest, the American  vote. in your conscience that in these straitened times, abortion isn't necessarily a crime that cries out to heaven. Vote pro-life, if you feel that laying violent hands on the unborn in the womb is a sin that is killing us. But no matter how pleased you are with yourself for the vote you have cast, don't get the idea that you are king of the hill in charge of the high ground,  I enjoy hearing the Happy Warrior in the Oval office talk about himself as a poobah who freed children from their fear of the nuclear winter. But then, this morning, I read a piece by George Kennan, formerly our ambassador to Russia, on the Op-Ed page in The Times. He begins: "The claim heard in campaign rhetoric that the United States under Republican Party leadership 'won the cold  Are Quayle and Bush great believers in the American Dream? Why, then, are they guilty of trickle-down homo­phobia? Why did the Republi­cans at their convention in Houston stir up bigotry against homosexuals as though they were monsters? Why does Dan Quayle distance himself from them as though they were de­fective in their citizenship as fellow Americans?  
- winters, the strangers saw the country as a fulfillment of the Messianic promises. It was the place to come to, they said, if you wanted to start over. Webster's New World Dictionary defines the American Dream as "the U.S. ideal according to which equality of opportunity permits any American to aspire to high attainment and material  Dream has, for the majority of us, turned out to be fairer than that. Still, for millions of Arneri­cans, the Dream has become the light-or even the thousand points of light-that failed them. These days, you could start to worry about the way the coun­try is falling apart at the seams, is America ready to be mea­sured for a harp, as the doom­sayers claim? If a country keeps  and that this entitles you to preach sermons on the mount to the groundlings, as though you were doing Jesus a favor. Abortions are a highly volatile human tragedy which shouldn't really be handed over to the politicians like a football to be kicked around. People who promote abortions as a form of liberation must be half in love with a death wish for their  war' is intrinsically silly. The suggestion that any Adminis­tration had the power to influ­ence decisively the course of a tremendous political upheaval in another great country on another side of the globe is simply childish ... " Kennan goes on like that, citing chapter and verse. "Great Scott!" I thought What should I make of this? Bush has been  Wills, in his recent book Lin­coln at Gettysburg, has credited Lincoln with giving America "a new birth in freedom." This is because he traced the nation's first birth to the Declaration of Independence (which called all men equal) rather than to the Constitution (which tolerated slavery). There can be no remission of sins, the Bible  
success." Where and when did  shooting itself in the foot, can  country. How sad it is to hear of  climbing all over Clinton's back  says, without the shedding of  
our  American  Dream  myth  the flesh wounds coalesce into  cities  where  the  abortions  because  Clinton  can't  blood. The blood shed  over  
specifically originate? It must  something  lethal?  As  an  outnumber the live births every  consistently remember what he  slavery in the Civil War should  
be unique. What other country  epitaph, we could use the dirge  year.  was doing as a college student  have washed the Dream until it  
dreams a dream of itself which must be preserved intact for the children of every succeeding  from Eliot: "And the wind shall say: 'Here were decent godless people:/ Their only monument  What do abortion clinics have to do with the Dream? Maybe if we could get the drugs out of  twenty years ago. This proves, says Bush, that Clinton isn't trustworthy. How trustworthy is  was purer than the mystical fleece. But how could there be a remission of sins, since North­ 
generation? Mankind, to its sorrow, has lost Paradise at least twice in its  the asphalt road/And a thou­sand lost golf balls.'" But to hell with the premature  the streets and the schools, and turn the slums, ghettos. and housing projects into gentler,  the President when he pins medals on himself that he isn't entitled to, since he wasn't  erners and Southerners refused to forgive one another? It doesn't take wars to test  
history. America's original sin which lost us blessings and grace, our best writers tell us, was the introduction of slavery  burial. I'm not warning you to keep your ears peeled for the pealing of the death knell. I only want to ask you to check, before  kinder places, we could put the abortion clinics out of business. Those death mills are signs of the times when, for so many,  really the hero of the Cold War? On that same Op-Ed page in The Times, Anna Quindlen writes of trickle-down homo­ nations We can do it locally, us­ing domestic spite. That's why we trust God to send grace ex· ceeding all our pettiness, which  
and our treatment of the Indi­ans; but that's the dark side of the Dream that we would rather not see. So much of what  voting, on the state of the Dream. If you care about the Dream, then won't you vote, please, for  life has become a rat race. Why should a woman want to have babies, if she places no value on her own life? Maybe she's  phobia. This is what happens, she says, when government leaders trash gay people and talk about "life-style choice."  has been diving us like a rna· chete since this election began. We need a new Lincoln to ex­tend our Dream until it covers  
has happened in the past five centuries can be understood as spin-offs and consequences of the original sin that brought so  the candidate whom you hope will help mend the Dream in the broken places'? Vote in the way that your heart compels you to  subjected daily to indignities and humiliations, just trying to put food on the table, without turning tricks like a hooker for  When the President of the United Sates is talking about swastikas painted on the walls of synagogues or crosses  everyone who needs an eagle's wing broad and powerful as the shoulders on God, to shadow him.  




--~----~-----------------~-­
Thursday, October 30, 1992 The Observer page 17 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 1 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES I  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153  THE 'RENTS ARE COMING! And they need penn tixl Please call Ann x4508  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ You have what I want  TRADE YOUR TICKETS TO THE FREEZING-COLD OUTDOOR PENN STATE GAME TO ME FOR  Peace Place Top 10 !!!! 10. Yo mammy! 9. I've never been there/done that  
2 room efficiency utilities paid $7 a  You have what I want  DRINKING MONEY SO YOU CAN  8. Nothing better than alcohol  
ATIENTION:  day 2880955  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  ENJOY THE WARMTH OF THE  assisted deep thought talks  
For more information and  and I am willing to pay for it  GAME IN THE COMFORT OF  7.Comin' down like a ton of bricks!!!  
assistance regarding the  2 bedroom,clean,quite,appliances  NEED B.C. TICKETS!!!  yes, I will pay for it 1111111111!11111!  YOUR FAVORITE BAR STOOL  6.0h get over it. He didn't get my  
investigation of financing, business  and utilities included $335 month  CALL RICH AT x1005  p- 
opportunities and work-at-home  287-2189 #  GREAT MONEY...  PLEASE GIVE IT TO ME  5.1s this thing long enough for you?  
opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the  Need to sublet  CALL ANGELA  I desperately need it NOW!!  PERSONALS  4.Liama burgers and the hicken hoop  
Better Business Bureau of  trtle crk apt  Your right, I NEED GAs  3.(any1hing) n' shit-seriously! II  
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  Call Damian x1870  283-2729  OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES  2. Tennessee, Rolling Rock,160Zs  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ KYLIE 287-9118  1.Can I have a quickie?  
4200; or call the BBB at219-277­ ND Professor can board one or two  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif.  
9121 or 800-439-5313.  horses. Stable 1 mile from ND.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  family can provide financial security,  MARGE  
Outside and small covered arenas.  I need 1 Penn State ticket, student  excellent education and wonderful  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  Olympic trainer for dressage. Also  or G.A. Becky 233-4925  Needed -2 to 4 tickets to the Nov. 7  future for your baby. Please let us  ADOPTION -Loving couple wish to  
can half-lease mare to very  game vs BC. Please call (517)  help you in this difficult time.  open our hearts & home to your  
TYPING  experienced rider. 277-5828.  NOV. 7 IS MY BIRTHDAY...  337-4973.  Confidential and legal. Medical  baby. Call Nancy collect (317)824­ 
287-4082  PLEASE HELP ME OUT BY  expenses paid. Collect any1ime.  8312.  
BUILD-YOUR-OWN  FOR SALE  SELLING ME YOUR BOSTON COLLEGE G.A.'s  I NEED PSU GA'S MEGAN 4222  (818) 246-1763  Loving young couple want to adopt  
BREAKFAST SANDWICH  CALL JOE AT x3426  EVERY FRIDAY IS RESUME DAY  baby. Mom a teacher will stay home  
IBM COMPATIBLE SOFTWARE:  ******BYU*PENN STATE*BC******  at The Copy Shop in LaFortune  full time. Call Laura/Brian collect  
SUNDAY, NOV.1, 1992  $2 EACH.  DESPERATELY NEEDEDII!!!!  FOR SALE: 2 stud tix books for all  SAVE 20% off copies  708-482-7576 or 312-220-3194  
11:00 A.M.-1:30 P.M.  WANTED: COMPUTERS.  2-4 STUDENT TIX FOR BOSTON  remaining games. Will sell all  on our resume paper  
NORTH/SOUTH DINING HALL  1530 WESTERN AVE., SB.  COLLEGE I My friends are poor but  together or each game.  1!11111!1!!1  
287-7550.  If you are nice and aren't planning  X3346 Lee or Levell  PAWN BUY SELL TRADE  
on going they would appreciate your  Hobbes is still not 21 , too bad  
FOR SALE:  help. Call JON X3592.  Need 6 BC GA's Call Scott x1157  OZARK TRADING POST  some day you'll drink with us  
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL  TREK 300 BIKE, $225 OBO. ALL  1530 WESTERN AVE.  
MEETING SUN NOV 1 8PM  SHIMANO COMPONENTS.  WE NEED BC STUD TIX BADLY!  HELP!  287-7550  11!1!1!1!11  
IN LYONS HALL LOUNGE  EXCELLENT CONDITION. 271­ CALL KEV OR MIKE AT x1103  I NEED 2 B.C. TICKETS  
(GO TO ARCH ENTRANCE)  0370.  EITHER GA OR STUDENT  Loving Catholic family longing to  Doctor and teacher will make  
$$$$$$$$$$  adopt. We're concerned about you  dreams for your baby come true.  
For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call  HELP! I need  CALL KATIE X1262  at this difficult time. Let's help each  Full-time parenting. Best of the city;  
Rita Delivery on Campus  1 BCGA  other, Gloria 818-248-4890.  summers by the beach. Your baby  
WordWorks Typing Service  234-6524  TIM x2763  HELP ME! I desperately need BC  rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace  
Term papers, dissertations, theses  Student or GA tickets!  ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif.  in winter, and by ocean waves in  
277-7406  SC FOR THANKSGIVING?  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Call Ellen x4294  family can provide financial security,  summer. Art. music, the best  

 I have a plane ticket. ..  excellent education and wonderful  education, endless love. Call  
LOST/FOUND  DIRT CHEAP please call LuAnn at X 4792  N E E D PENN ST & BC  I NEED B.C. TICKETS!! CALL DAVE  future for your baby. Confidential and legal. Expenses paid. Call  Franny or Stephen collect. (212) 369-2597.  

 WILL BEAT  271-7131  Cyndi and AI collect any1ime (805)  
FOUND: A SMALL COMPUTER  Cheap trip to southern vactionland!  520-5978 or attorney (818) 241­ LONDON PROGRAM  
NEAR STEPS ON JUNIPER  ANY INSANE  YOU WANT TO SELL ME YOUR  5535.  
GOING TO FLANNER. CALL &  Selling a plane ticket to North  PENN STATE TIX  APPLICATIONS  
IDENTIFY. 239-7957 OR  Carolina over Thanksgiving Break.  OFFER  stud. or g.a. Need 2. Patti x4947  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  
272-1112 EVENINGS.  You name the price.  Information on semester, year,  are due  
Call DAVE at 283-3662.  kyle  SELL ME YOUR PENN STATE  graduate, summer and internship  5:00P.M.  
SEIKOWATCH  G.A.'s AND YOU CAN BE A PART  programs in Australia. We represent  Friday, October 30  
ROMAN NUMERALS BLACK BAND  TICKETS  234-9433  OF ONE OF THE BIGGEST TAILGATERS IN N.D. FOOTBALL  28 Australian Universities. Call us toll free 1-800-245-2575.  
LOST AT BYU GAME  HISTORY!  Trolls and candy, witches too,  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE  I NEED 1 PENN ST. STUD. TICKET  CALL RICH AT x1 005  How come all MINNESOTANS play  Bats, make-up and masks just  --­ 
REWARD  JASON X1746  WILL BEAT  Duck-Duck-Grey Duck instead of  for you!  
#2933  Need 2 GA's for BC. Will pay top  Duck-Duck-Goose, like everybody  
NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX  ANY INSANE OFFER  $$. Call Derek 283-4522.  else?  Your SYR & Party Headquarters  
WANTED  CALL JOE OR JAY X1760  GIVE A CALL & TRY ME  We NEED Penn State GA's and  SYR  The Country Harvester  
I NEED ND FOOTBALL  Boston College student OR G.A. tixl  HALLOWEEN HEADQUARTERS  M-F 12-5 Sat. 11-3  
ALASKA SUMMER  TICKETS.272-6306  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Please call at x1771  
EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn  Cute punkin bears & kitties,  Lower Level LaFortune  
$5000+/month. Free transportation!  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  COLD CASH PAID FOR 2 BC  Family coming for BC  candy corn and trick or treat Trolls,  
Room & Board! Over 8000  PLEASE SELL. ME 3 Boston  GA'S. CALL KEVIN #3291  Need both stdnt and GAs  witches and Frankensteins!!  
openings. No experience  College GAs or student tix. Call Jill  Paul @ 273-1364 or 239-5273  Attn. SMC Community:  
necessary. Male or Female. For  @ x4758 or x4721.  I NEED 2 BC GA'S CALL WALLY  The Country Harvester  Soph. Board is collecting items to  
employment program call Student  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  X3443  Need 6 ND-BC tickets call288-5474  M-F 12-5 Sat. 11-3  aid the victims of Hurricane Andrew.  
Employment Services at 1-206-545­ Please donate what you can.  
4155 ext. A5584.  NEED PENN STATE TIX-call Sam  I'M DESPERATE. ..  $$ Help! Need up to 4 BC GAs. Call  Lower Level of Lafortune  Boxes will be in all the main  
x4842  Oh, and I need Penn St. Tix for my  Mike At x1115. $$  entrances of the buildings until  
Arthur Victor Painting Inc. is looking  little bros!  RIDE NEEDED -Scranton, PA area  Friday Oct. 30. Thanks for your  
for Branch Managers for summer '93. Experience helpful but not  Need One Ticket For Boston College!!! Call273-2967!!!  Student or GA's... BIG BUCKS JEN X4975  for Thanksgiving. Pis call Bryan 3320  support!.........................  
necessary; complete training and  
field support. High income potential.  Need Penn St. Ga's -big $$$  NEED GAs, Penn St, BC  Thanks for all your help, Dan! Enjoy  LYONS HALL WHODUNIT?  
800-775-4745  Lisa 288-5196  x3593  the games enough for both of us ...  Clue#3  
NEED  Erin  A new addition between the halls  
Actors/Actresses Needed !!  *******NEED PSU TIX********  Need: 3 BC GAs  Is that the place where Sister falls?  
Student film, exp. nee. Call Pat  Call Laurie x2998  Call X1234  Boston College  DO CONFLICTS PLAGUE YOUR  Give us a concrete examples of  
287-4227.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  LIFE?  how she died  
I NEED STUD & GA's FOR BC &  GA's  Come to the Mediation Exploration  Although once liquid, now it has  
NEEDED: TUTOR for 3rd grade boy in SB. I tutored him last year  Need PSUtix Mike 234-8306  PSU -Greg 289-6052  meeting at the esc to discuss the possibility of a Mediation Service on  dried.  ..  
bull graduated. Please call me  Need BC student Tix!  campus.  Moya, Susan, Lisa, Barb -You hot  
collect in NY for more info Mike  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Angie x21~9  Call Jeanne  Wednesday, Nov. 4 at 5:15  tamales at SMC -Keep the faith!  
Ferguson 718-325-9642 or call CSC  I must have B.C. tickets! Either  Peace! Yo Ivan Ho, Freak and my  
Student or G.A.'s. My cousin and  I REALLY need 4 BC tickets!  atx2645  MIMS: the greatest man on this  beloved Andy C. Busch Light sucks!  
Exchange student seeks to rent  his buddies are coming in from  Please call Jeff -381 0  campus, but I must say  I love you forever! Please send  
room with a family or with other  B.C. to watch their team get  FRANK,damnit, I LOVE YOU!!  letters and camel lights to Laura  
students. Contact 283-3115  slaughtered! Please help me out!  BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC  Yeeeaaaaa.  Stach  
I'M DESPERATE!!!!!! X4990  Need BC Ticket -Stud or GA  86, Rue Mortiers  
I NEED PSU TIX: GNSTU CALL  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Call Greg at 3451  Laure and La,  49000 Angers France  
AL: 273-8382  BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC  The people who pay my tuition  Worship D -She is our God!  Yeah, Hmml Not! Stay away from  
I NEED 3 BC GA'S AND 1 PENN  need 4 GAs for B.C.  -Babs  Flanner Moya! What "New Jack  I.  
EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our  ST GA, PRETTY PLEASE WITH A  call Rich 233-9279  City" CD? Spaghetti O's! Denny's?  
circulars!. ..Begin NOW!...FREE  CHERRY ON TOP.  Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call  Nicole call. Please call.  Suck My Kiss? Domer! Magic 8  
packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box  MIKE X2209  1-800-922-BEAR.  Need BC Tickets  Ball! Absolutl Morrissey! I miss you!  
4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000.  Please call John at 271-0759  Slider,  A La Prochaine!  
#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$##$#$#$#$#  What's happening hot stuff? Are you  
STUDENTS or ORGANIZATIONS.  2 NAVY GAs for sale.  TRADE -2 BC TKS FOR PN ST.  the oily variety bo hunk? Thanks for  DOOMSDAY IS APPROACHING.  
Promote our Florida Spring Break  GREAT SEATS FOR SAME.  loaning me the danger. I've never  If I want to make it through next  
packages. Earn MONEY and FREE  Call JACK at 283-1747  I NEED 1 BC GA,  (502) 228-3040.  been so happy in my whole life.  weekend, I need to find some BC  
trips. Organize SMALL or LARGE  #$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#  DAVE, x4506  Now I have a place to put my hand!  GA's.  
groups. Call Campus Marketing.  How does LDD and the Bud I'm  ****Jenn 4059.  
800-423-5264.  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR ND - gonna win sound for tonight?  
NEED 2 PENN. ST. GA's  BC GA TICKETS. CALL JOE @  Pete- 
Help! Anyone driving to see Ned's  271-07421v message w/price  287-4561.  Dear Ears,  We wear our flannel just for you!  
Atomic Dustbin Nov.1 in Chi.? I  What does Pat think of your spoon  K.T. and Coli  
need a ride, I'll help pay. Call Pete  California ALUM desperate tor Penn  technique?  
x1231  NEED 1 0 PENN ST GAs  State GAs Top$. Pis lv mess. ((  Deperate for 2 BC GA's  Beware of the shirttail gang.  
BIG TIME CALL PAT x2071  (415)597-2319  CALL x1803 TODAY!  Lit- Rollerblading nightly @ 6:00 on a  
BRIDGET'S IS HIRING MATURE  The troops are coming  quad near you.  
BOUNCERS. 271-0373 FOR APPT.  -Coli  
***PENN*PENN*PENN*PENN***  HELP! 92 GRAD DESPERATELY  ••••• FOR SALE •••••  Mob- 
Now Hiring Spring Break Reps II II  **TICKETS*TICKETS*TICKETS**  NEEDS 2 PENN ST GAs PLEASE  Button the top 2 just for the men;  
For Panama City Beach. Greeks,  CALL JENNY  ONE STUDENT TICKET BOOK  Slider,  also avoid the nasty HN  
Organizations. Individuals. Earn  I  215-265-7346.  call Bill at 299-1845  Take Floosie to bed or lose her  -Mur  
Cash, Free Trips, & Experience.  NEED  forever.  
Call Joe. Endless Summer 1-800­ 4  -Babs  Floosie­ 
234-7007.  PENN STATE  I NEED 2 B.C. GA'S  Need 1 Ticket for BC: student or  ls slider your top gun?  
GA'S  call Tom 288-1 027  GA. Top dollar. Dan 288-6818  do you work for the ira? i don't  -Babs  
FOR RENT  CALL JEANNE AT 283-2645  know i'm asking!ll  
BB STUDENT TIX APP  Col-Happy 21st Birthday"little girt!"  DIET MAGIC! 30 lbs. 30 days. $30.  
HOME BED & BREAKFAST  ***PENN*PENN*PENN*PENN***  STUD. BOOK FOR SALE-BC AND  FOR SALE CHEAP!!!  Love, Cat  Call (616)471-3970  
AVAILABLE FOR PARENTS ON  **TICKETS*TICKETS*TICKETS**  PENN CALL 273-8449 MAKE AN  BEST OFFER  
WEEKENDS. 219-291-2899.  OFFER.  LISA X4845  GO ND SWIM II!  see CLASS/page 19  



Friday, October 30, 1992
page 18 The Observer 

AMERICAN CONFERENCE NFL Injury Report Conover (ankle), G-C Ken Dailalior (back-knees), NBA Firat Round Signing• NHL Scoring LeadersE..t NEW YORK (AP) -The National Football LB Chris Spielman (foot) are probable. 1. Orlando, Shaquiile O'Neal, 7-t, c. LSU, NEW YORK (AP) -NHL scoring leaders through W L T Pet. PF PA League Injury report lor this week's games as LA RAMS AT ATLANTA-Rams: SS Michael reported 7 years, $40 million. 
October27:
Miami 6 1 0 .857 188 125 provided by the league: Stewart (arm-injured reserve) is out; WR Willie 2. Charlotte, Alonzo Mourning. · 6-t 0, c, Player, Team GP G A PTSBuffalo 5 2 0 .7t4 tOO 122 Sunday Anderson (ankle) Is questionable. Falcons: CB Georgetown. PIM 
Lemieux, Pit 10 14 18 32 2Indianapolis 4 3 0 .57t 99 132 
CLEVELAND AT CINCINNATI -Browns: G Deion Sanders (foot) is questionable; S Terry Ray 3. Minnesota, Christian Laenner, 6-t t. I, Duke, 6 Stevens, Pit 
10 11 15 26 12

N.Y. Jets 1 6 0 .t43 104 147 John Rienstra (shoulder) Is questionable. Bengals: (back), S Scon Case (chest) are probable. years, $2t.6 million. LaFontaine, But 8 7 14 21 2New England 070.000 80 176 
WR Brian Brennan (knee), DE Daniel Stubbs PHILADELPHIA AT DALLAS -Eagles: T 4. Dallas, Jim Jackson, 6-6, g, Ohio State. Gilmour, Tor 9 6 13 19 18Central (neck) are probable. Antone Davis (knee) IS doubtlul; RB Keith Byars 5. Denver, LaPhonso Ellis, 6-8, f, Notre Dame, 5 Sakic, Que 9 8 10 18Houston 5 2 0 .714 179 120 HOUSTON AT PITISBURGH-Oilers: LB Joe (hand), T Ron Heller (arch), S Was Hopkins (knee) years, S13 million. . Jagr, Pit 10 6 12 tB 6 6Pittsburgh 5 2 0 .714 138 77 Bowden (ankle) is doubtful; LB Eugene Seale are questionable. Cowboys: S Ray Horton (knee­6. Washington, Tom Gugliona. 6-9 112, f, North Turgeon, NYI 10 6 12 t8 2Cleveland 4 3 0 .571 107 101 (leg), DT Doug Smith (hamstring) are injured reserve) Is out. Carolina St .. 7 years, terms undisclosed.· Messier, NYR to 5 13 t8 8
Cincinnati 
250.286 109 174 questionable; S Marcus Robertson (arm-ankle) Is SAN FRANCISCO AT PHOENIX -49ers: DE 7. Sacramento, Wah Williams, 6-8, g, Maryland, Savard, Mtl tO 4 t4 t8 t4Weal probable. Stealers: LB Hardy Nickerson (elbow) Is Kevin Fagan (elbow) is questionable; LB Tim multiyear, terms undisclosed. 
Recchi. Phi tt 5 12 t7 tBDenver 5 3 0 .625 121 154 questionable; DE Kenny Davidson (toe) Is Harris (knee), RB Marc Logan (thigh) are probable. B. Milwaukee, Todd Day, 6-8 112, I. Arkansas; 5 Borschevsk, Tor 9 8 8 t6 4Kansas City 4 4 0 .500 153 128 probable. Cardinals: C Bill Lewis (hamstring) is doubtful; RB years, S10.2 million. Andreychuk, But 8 8 7 t5 6San Diego 3 4 0 .429 104 136 INDIANAPOLIS AT SAN DIEGO -Co~s: LB Johnny Johnson (chest), G Lance Smith (elbow) 9. Philadelphia, Clarence Weatherspoon. 6-6. I. Muller, Mtl 10 
3 t2 t5 20

LA Raiders 3 5 0 .375 122 137 
Quentin Coryatt (wrist-injured reserve), G Randy are questionable; LB David Braxton (shoulder), TE Southern Miss., 7 years, terms undisclosed. Oates, Bos 8 14 t5 4Seanie 1 7 0 .125 53 158 Dixon (head) are out; CB Ashley Ambrose (ankle), Butch Rolle (ribs) are probable. 10. Atlanta, Adam Keefe, 6-9 112, I. Stanford, 5 
Francis, Pit 10 1 t4 tS 4NATIONAL CONFERENCE DE Jon Hand (knee-ankle), G Bill Schultz (ankle), years, terms undisclosed.
TAMPA BAY AT NEW ORLEANS-Buccaneers: Selanne. Win 10 9 5 14 toEast 
G Ron Soh (shoulder) are questionable; T Zelross 11. Houston, Robert Horry. 6-8. f, Alabama, 5
WR Mark Carrier (knee) is questionable; WR Roenick, Chi 9 7 7 t4 10
W L T Pet. PF PA Moss (ankle) is probable. Chargers: DE Leslie years, terms undisclosed.
Lawrence Dawsey (ankle) Is probable. Saints: LB Robitaille, LA tO 7 7 t4 tO
Dallas 6 1 0 .857 167 112 O'Neal (knee), LB Junior Seau (groin), DT Blaise 12. Miami, Harold Miner, 6-5, g. Southern Cal, 5
Demond Winston (knee) is questionable. McEachern. Pit 10 7 7 t4 2Washington 5 2 0 .714 136 105 Winter (knee) are questionable; CB Gill Byrd years, $7.3 million.
NEW YORK GIANTS AT WASHINGTON -Juneau, Bos 8 5 9 14 4Philadelphia 5 2 0 .714 143 77 (thumb), WR Anthony Miller (thumb), C Courtney Giants: LB Carl Banks (hip) is questionble. 13. Denver, Bryant Stith, 6·5, g. Virginia, terms Kurri,LA 10 4 to t4 0N.Y.Giants 340.429 150 161 Hall (ribs) are probable. undisclosed.
Redsklns: LB Andre Collins (back) Is questionable; Housley, Win to 3 11 t4 8Phoenix 6 0 .143 113 177 
MIAMI AT NEW YORK JETS -Dolphins: TE 14. Indiana, Malik Sealy, 6-7, I. St. John's,Central Keith Jackson (groin), LB John Offerdahl reported 5 years, $5.9 million. 
T Mo Eiewonibi (ankle), LB Wilber Marshall (knee), 
OB Mark Rypien (knee) are probable.Minnesota 5 2 0 .714 173 127 (abdomen) are questionable. Jets RB Blair Thomas Monday 15. LA Lakers, Anthony Peeler. 6-4. g, Missouri. Chicago 4 3 0 .571 169 155 (groin), OB Browning Nagle (loot) are d~ubtlul; G multiyear, terms undisclosed.
MINNESOTA AT CHICAGO -VIkings: WRTampa Bay 3 4 0 .429 136 152 
Dave Cadigan (ankle) is questionable; TE Mark 16. LA Clippers, Randy Woods. 6-0, g. LaSalle,
Hassan Jones (back) is doubtful; G Randall
Detroit 2 5 0 .286 147 135 Boyer (back), LB Mo Lewis (shin), WR Rob Moore multiyear, terms undisclosed. AP AU-Star Team
McDaniel (leg) is questionable; TE Steve JordanGreen Bay 2 5 0 .286 90 151 (thigh), DT Bill Pickel (ankle) ar& probable. 17. Seanle, Doug Christie, 6-6, g, Pepperdine. NEW YORK (AP) -The 1992 Associated Press
(knee-ankle), DT Brad Culpepper (hip) areWest NEW ENGLAND AT BUFFALO -Patriots: DE probable. Bears: T Keith Van Horne (ankle). DE 18. San Antonio, Tracy Murray, 6-8, I, UCLA, 3 baseball all-star team, as selected In nationwide San F ranclsco 6 1 0 .857 216 125 
Ray Agnew (elbow) is out; WR Irving Fryar years. terms undisclosed with Portland following voting by sports wrHers and broadcasters:
Trace Armstrong (hip) are probable.

New Orleans 5 2 0 .714 117 82 (hamstring), NT Tim Goad (knee), OB Hugh Millen trade from San Antonio. 1B-Mark McGwlre. Oakland. 
LA Rams 3 4 0 .429 121 133 (shoulder), LB Johnny Rembert (loot), LB Chris 
19. Detroit, Don Maclean, 6-9, f, UCLA, reported 2B-Roberto Alomar, Toronto. Atlanta 2 5 0 .286 133 179 
Singleton (groin), LB Andre Tippen (groin) are 5 years, $4.5 million with Washington following SS-Barry Larkin, Cincinnati. 
Sunday, Nov. 1 questinable; TE Marv Cook (wrist), LB Eugene trades from Detroit and the LA Clippers. 3B-Gary Sheffield, San Diego.Green Bay at Detroit, 1 p.m. Lockhart (call) are probable. Bills: WR Brad Lamb 20. New York, Hubert Davis, 6-4, g. North C-Darrln Dau~on. PhiladelphiaHouston at Pinsburgh, 1 p.m. (abdomen) is out; G Mitch Frerotte (groin) Is Carolina, reported 5 years, $4.7 million. OF-Barry Bonds, Pittsburgh. Los Angeles Rams at Atlanta, 1 p.m. doubtful; LB Car~on Bailey (groin), NT Jell Wright 25. LA Clippers, Elmore Spencer, 7-0. c, UNLV, 21. Boston, Jon Barry, 6-5, g, Georgia Tech. OF-Kirby Puckett, Minnesota. 
Miami at New Vorl< Jets, 1 p.m. multiyear. terms undisclosed. (hip), C Kent Hull (hamstring), CB Chris Hale years, $1.1 million. DH-Oave Winfield, Toronto. 
(groin) are questionable; LB Cornelius Benne« 22. Phoenix, Oliver Miller, 6-8, 1-c, Arkansas, two OF-Andy VanSlyke, Pittsburgh. 
New England at Buffalo, 1 p.m. 26. Portland, Dave Johnson, 6-7. I, Syracuse. 
Tampa Bay at New Orleans, 1 p.m. (hamstring), OB Jim Kelly (ribs), LB Darryl Talley three years, terms undisclosed. 23. Milwaukee, Lee Mayberry, 6-2, g, Arkansas. RHP-Greg Maddux, Chicago Cubs. Cleveland at Cincinnati, 4 p.m. (ankle) are probable. 27. Chicago, Byron Houston, 6-4, f, Oklahoma 
four years, teams undisclosed. LHP-Tom Glavine, Atlanta. 
Indianapolis at San Diego, 4 p.m. State, multiyear, terms undisclosed with Golden
GREEN BAY AT DETROIT-LB Brian Noble 24. Golden State, Latreil Sprewell, 6·4, g, Reliever-Dennis Eckersley, Oakland.• 
Philadelphia at Dallas, 4 p.m. State following trade from Chicago. 
(back) is out. Lions: LB Michael Coler (neck), WR Alabama, two years. terms undisclosed. San Francisco at Phoenix, 4 p.m. Aubrey Mathews revel are doubtful; T Scott 

CAMPUS MINmRY... 
. .... CoNSIDERATIONS 
Spicing up the Liturgy 
If you listen closely to assorted conversations, now and again you may hear someone say that he or she doesn't 'get much' out of going to Church anymore. Such a statement is the usual rationale for why that person is less and less interested in getting up and dressed on Sunday mornings, or in sliding downstairs in gym shorts on Sunday nights in the dorm, so as to 
share in the sacred mysteries with the rest of the Christian folk. 
Nowadays, when I hear such a person say such a thing, my standard reaction is to begin by asking our speaker just what the quality of the rest of his seven-day week really looks and feels like. 
Sacraments, like the Holy Eucharist, are meant to reveal and deepen what is already going on in the life of the community and the individual, who is living with love and faith in God. If a person is trying to enter the church, baptism makes that entry obvious and real. If a person is sick or dying, the gentle touch of oil brings true concern and the focused prayer of the community to the one in need of reassurance. If a person celebrates the 
..._ 
Eucharist, the broken bread and shared cup deepen a previous engagement with the Lord, and the Lord's community of believers, that is revealed and lived out in the actions of everyday life. 
Over the Fall Break several vans and bus loads ofNotre Dame and St. Mary's students went into the South to live and work amongst people in obvious distress. Some went to Appalachia, a traditional place of poverty; others went to South Florida, to the recent victims of Andrew's wrath. In these and other situations, the students were trying to be open and available and useful in the lives of other people in need-trying to learn and to help as much as they could in one shared, short week of work, far away from the campus. 
These kinds of experiences, sponsored typically by the Center for Social Concerns or by Student Government, can broaden horizons and put personal flesh on the skeleton of intellectual convictions. These kinds of experiences -Washington Seminars, Appalachian Plunges, roof rebuildings in devastated South Florida-can put an Ivory Tower college experience into quick dialogue with the mass of God's people and their concerns. These kinds of experiences, voluntary exposures to the sufferings of others, can help to integrate scholarship and praxis, and faith and action, in the lives of willing participants. 
For this is experiential learning, and most will get much, much more out of 
the week of hard work than one academic credit and a couple of handfuls of 
callouses. Political opinions are challenged. Personal compassion is 
stretched. Perspective is gained on society and self. 
This also is living faith, and many of these busriders and roofbuilders will find new reasons for prayer and a new sense of solidarity, even over great distances, with those whose lives they have touched in shared service. Bread that is broken takes new meaning when one has rubbed shoulders with the obvious weakness and pain of our brothers and sisters. A cup that is shared is a truly vivid sign of hope when one remembers loved ones far away and desires their presence. Eucharist comes to life in the spirit ofJesus, uniting us all in our weakness and awe before God's creation, and in our hope and joy in the power of God's promises and renewed life. 
If our Sunday prayer seems to drag a bit, maybe we need to pick a few flashier songs and push the kind Fathers for a few more reflective and relevant sermons. Maybe we should all just lighten up and laugh once in awhile in church. But more than these things, if we really want our public prayer to bring us into touch with the creative depths of nurturing faith, maybe we first need to give more of our everyday lives over to the search for the Living God, a God found in relationship to God's people and in service to their needs. 
If we lived a little better, we could pray a lot better. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
!Sat. Oct. 31 5:00p.m. Rev. Stephen Newton, C.S.C. ISun. Nov. 1 10:00 a.m. Rev. John Lahey, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS SUNDAY ALL SAINTS DAY }BI Reading REVELATIONS 7, 2-4, 9-14 

ISn Reading 1 JOHN 3, 1-3 ospel MATTHEW 5, 1-12 
Friday, October 30, 1992 
The Observer 

Walsh matches wits against UW's James 
Walsh, who returned to Stan­ford in January after three years with NBC, was 0-2 vs. James' Washington teams in his previous stint with the Cardinal in the late 1970s. Stanford lost to Washington 45-21 in '77 and 34-31 in '78. 
While Walsh coached the San Francisco 49ers for 10 seasons, James re~ained at Washington, where he has become the winningest coach in Pac-10 his­tory. 
From 1979 until his retire­ment as 49ers' coach after the 1988 season, Walsh compiled a 102-63-1 record. In James' 18­year coaching career at Wash­ington, he has a 151-54-2 record that includes a 96-36-2 showing in the Pac-10. 
Walsh said he's put his NFL past behind him. 
"I don't identify with the NFL at all now," he said. "I don't spend a lot of time reading about it or watching it. It's in the past and I don't give it a lot of thought." 
Class 
continued from page 17 
•• WATER POLO STUD •• ...And all of the others, GOOD LUCK this weekend! Joe, if you come over after your game Saturday night, I'll try to scare the pants off of you! (Halloween, scared ...get it?!) 
Love, Carrie 

~, 0~ ft..,.()~('~~'\'\ '~~~~o.~D 
,<,~~J> ance "0~~ to DJ 
Fri & Sat 9:30-2:30 
1 mile. east of campus 
SEATTLE (AP) -Stanford's coach Don James for the first 
Bill Walsh, who coached three tinte Saturday. Super Bowl winners in the "Don James has proven to be 1980s, will try to do something one of the great coaches of our 
in the 1990s that he couldn't do time," Walsh said. "He has in the 1970s. sustained that program at He will try to beat Washington Washington for so many years." 

THE PASQUERILLA EAST AND KEENAN HALL POLitiCAL FORUM SERIES 
Presents: 
Forum #2 
THE ECONOMICS OF THE 1992 ELECTION 
Featuring: 
Professor Herbert S im and Professor Charles Wilber 
KEENAN HALL COMMONS SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 1 7:00 P.M. 
The following questions will be addressed during this forum: 
What course of action is necessary to achieve economic growth for all classes of the American population? Why did you choose this course of action? Which candidate do you feel best espouses this course of action? 
PIZZA WILL BE PROVIDED FOLLOWING THE FORUM 
EVERYONE IS WELCOME TO ATTEND! 
TONIGHT Is THE NIGHT 

Tonight At Coach's You'll Finally Know The Score ... Be Here At 7 :00 p.m. For The Unveiling And Score Some Great Deals! 
Saturday... Notre Dame vs. Navy Halloween Costume Contest With $$$ Prizes 
PHONE: 27 --Sport 
2046 South Bend Ave.•South Bend 
Monday-Thursday 11:30 a.m.-1:00 a.m. • Friday & Saturday 11:30 a.m. -2:00 a.m. 
page 19 


HAPPY BIRTHDAY ROBIN II! (Sorry it's late!) 
Ah well, another birthday! Hope you copped that 'tude and put your best foot forward when you celebratf:!d!! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! Love, Ann, Marjean, Shayla & Mara ************************************** 
Wanted: One Penn State ticket, either GA or student. Please call Ellen at x4420 Need MANY, MANY, MANY 
PENN STATE GA'S including AT LEAST THREE TOGETHER PLEASE call Whitney at x2666 
c 
A A L 
0 
s 

Happy Birthday!!!!!!! It's the BIG 21 !!!!!!!!! 
Love, Cheryl and Whitney 
Colleen Danaher 
SMCis fun ND Band is fun 21 is fun Ain't Life Great? 
Happy 21st, Finally 
Love, Mom, Dad and Patrick 

WANTED 
·-.i'II-'M L-..A·.Jill_~'
ot'ii}IF 

~~t·~·. 
· .. ' ~ 
-~~_....._,·4
·-··$-· 
HAVE YOU SEEN THIS MAN? 
Ifyou have, then inform your friends to beware ofhis vicious comedy! Report to Washington Hall on Friday, November 6th at 8 p.m. to find out for yourself just how dangerous his wit is. 
(Tickets on sale at the LaFortune Infonnation desk for $3) 
'. 


page 20 The Observer Friday, October 30, 1992 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

The women's basketball team will hold an informational meeting for anyone interested in trying out on October 28 at 5 
p.m. at the basketball office. Ifunable to attend, call Sarah at 239­5420. 
The men's basketball team will be holding walk-on tryouts on November 1 and 2 at 7 p.m. in the JACC Arena. 
RecSports is accepting entries for men's and women's interhall basketball, grad/fac/staff basketball, club basketball, men's interhall and graduate hockey, and campus co-ree wallyball. 
NO Ski Club/team will have a mandatory meeting on November 3 in 127 Nieuwland at 8 p.m. Final payments for the Aspen trip will be taken at that time. Trips are still available so bring interested friends. If you have questions, call Chris Boone at 273­2958. 
SMC Varsity Basketball tryouts begin November 1 at 3:30 p.,m.. at Angela Athletic Facility. Tryouts are open to all interested participants. 
The soccer final of the Grad/Faculty/Staff league will take place November L Les Miz and Rehab of the MBA will play each other in the final. 
Anyone Interested In being a basketball official for RecSports will have a meeting on Novemeber 5 at 5:30 p.m. in the JACC auditorium. 
The RecSports flyers are wrong. The captain's meetings are on November 5 which is a Thursday and not Monday. 
Ohio rivalry one to savor 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Listen up, rookies. It's time to learn about this Cincinnati-Cleveland football rivalry. 
Fourteen of you on the Ben­gals and Browns have never been pelted with biscuits from the Dawg Pound. You're not quite sure why a certain Sam Wyche quote is getting resur­rected this week. 
Puzzled? Here's the clue: Don't think of this as a rivalry. Think of it as a family feud. 
This game Sunday between the Bengals (2-5) and Browns (4-3) isn't about positioning in the AFC Central Division. It's about pride and paybacks, old slights and new fights. 
"It's like the Hatfields and the McCoys," said Bengals offensive lineman Bruce Kozerski, a veteran of more than a dozen intrastate games. "It's not just a game. It's a different animaL 
"That's something that every young guy on the team is going to have to learn, and every vet­eran is going to have to make sure the young guys know. If not, they'll fmd out on the first play when they get knocked on their butts." 
Listening, Mike Tomczak? If you think the Michigan-Ohio State rivalry was intense when you were a Buckeye quarter­back, just wait until you get decked for the first time Sun­
-' 
day as the Browns' quarter­back. 
Think back to what it was like during your college days in Columbus, a city with divided loyalties in pro football. 
"When I was living in the dorms, every time the Bengals and Browns would play on TV, people would take sides," Tom­czak said. "There would be a lot of yelling and screaming. I knew being in Columbus that it was a heck of a battle twice a year for the bragging rights of Ohio." 
WHO KNOWS WHAT YOU'LL FIND AT THE ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
ONlRIA JLOWJEJEN. 

OCTOBER31, 1992 


PRIZES FOR THE BEST COSTUMES & LIVE OJ FROM 9PM-2AM 
HOPE TO SEE YOU AT THE BIGGEST ~~llOWfE!E~J CELEBRATION EVER! 
Purdue admits to being overmatched 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) of the overall speed and depth pleting two for 53 yards. But he 
Based on talent, coach Jim of the Wolverines. scrambled for 78 yards on 16 Colletto admits his Purdue Boil-"They can turn games into a carries while Purdue accumu­ermakers are in trouble against track meet," Colletto lated 254 yards rushing -the No. 3 Michigan. However, his-said. "Their fourth-team tail-most by the Boilermakers in a tory gives him hope for a major back is better than most first-Big Ten game since 1984. upset. team guys. They're a good Moeller says his Wolverines 
"On paper, it doesn't stack up blocking team, but they don't are concerned about containing as too much of a game," said have to block for long because Hunter. Colletto, whose team plays host their backs can take tiny cracks "You're never sure when he's to the Wolverines on Saturday. and they're gone." tackled, and he can throw the "But there's been great upsets Moeller, meanwhile, is leery of ball a great distance," Moeller all through college football his-roadblocks to the Rose Bowl said. "He can come up with the tory." trip most observers see them big plays. Basically, he's just a 
Purdue (3-4, 2-2 Big Ten) has making without any difficulty. good athlete with a very fine lost its last five games to Michi-''I'm always concerned," he throwing arm." gan (6-0-1, 4-0), which holds a said. "When people keep telling 31-10 advantage in the series you how good you are, you try Purdue will need to contain an after taking 18 of the last 21 to block that out." offense that is averaging 42 meetings. Purdue's last victory Eric Hunter, who lost the points and 493 yards per game. was 31-29 in 1984. starting quarterback job follow-Quarterback Elvis Grbac set a 
"They're such a good defen-ing preseason shoulder surgery, school record for passing sive team," Colletto said of the will be back leading the Purdue yardage, topping the mark of Wolverines, who are coming off offense. 5,449 yards set by Jim Har­a 63-13 rout of Minnesota. 'He adds another dimension to baugh. "They know what they're doing the team," Colletto said of the and they keep you from doing scrambling QB. "You don't Grbac's top target is Derrick what you want to do." always know where he's going. Alexander, who set a school 
Colletto said he's been telling We don't, and the other team single-game record when he his players "they don't have a doesn't. But he has enough caught four touchdown passes whole lot to lose; that the game skills to turn some bad plays last week. Alexander has is going to be on national TV into good ones." caught 33 passes for 480 yards (ESPN) and that they should be Hunter made his first start of and eight touchdowns this sea­prepared to go out and have a the season in last Saturday's son, bringing his career totals lot of fun." 27-16 victory at Iowa and to 73 receptions for 1,096 yards 
The Purdue coach is envious threw only seven passes, com-and 15 TDs. 
ZOiJvfrBPE, A BLOODY BRAIN, 
AB~CKCA~l, 
MAYBE, EVEN THREE WISE MEN 

friday, October 30, 1992 The Observer page 21 
----------------------------------~------------~----------~-----.--~--~--------~ 
., 




Daily Delivery to Notre Dame and South Bend Your ~ly Florist for Your SY"K/Formal 
OPEN 7 DAYS One Dozen Roses for $12 
1169 Scousdale Mall Lower Level South Bend. IN 46612 (219) 291-6745 M-f 10-9 SAT 10-9 SUN 12-5 
1404 N. Ironwood Dr. South Bend. IN 46635 fax(219)288-8692 (219) 288-3995 M-f 7:30-9 SAT 8-8 SUN 10-5 
a moment or two during a pre­season timeout, yet it summed up the major questions sur­rounding this year's Boston Celtics. 
A fan walked past the Celtic bench carrying a crudely printed sign asking "Where's Larry?" As he passed by, he yelled out: "Parish, you're next." Meanwhile, Kevin McHale was rubbing his sore left ankle and wondering whether it could survive an­other season. 
Larry Bird is gone. McHale is hurting. Robert Parish is the oldP.st olaver in the league. The three NBA titles in the 1980s is fading fast. 


Bird's 13-year NBA career ended in August when back problems, which made him a part·time player the previous two seasons, forced him into retirement. Though the Celtics will miss his clutch shooting and pinpoint passing, they won't miss the uncertainty caused by his back problems. 
"I think we're going to have the stability we didn't have the last couple of years," Parish said. "Before, we had that emotional adjustment all the time, everybody anticipating his 


Say you saw us in the Observer 
.m..;.. ...~ 56.00 with Student I.D. 
2'71.005~ 

2 miles north of campus on U.S. 31 
Attention students­;'our ad in the ND telephone directory was placed in the wrong section. Please record our number under beauty :!'_nd ~arber ~hop!~ ··-~~.. ~~-~c.---_-.. 
"".·· • .,-_ ·• -~..i -';;,: .• ·if,:,..~""--. ·-~ .....-.::::.:.)~.::..:.~~· ..-:-~-..::...:.~.~'fli.,. -.~.r-~.r.:!!~-... ~;.~;,.;,;,;,;=~ 
Pre-arranged Pick-up Medicaid Apprv-:-JcC Special out-of-town rates Quick & Deper_;_(~at~le 
24-hour service 
AMERICAN CAB CO_ 
56897 Pine Road] South Bend, IN 46619 
232...9299 
"We Appreciate Your Business" 
charged for that, and then when he was not around you'd have that mental letdown." 
Bird, now working for the Celtics in player evaluation, has certainly not been forgotten. The front cover of Boston's 1992-93 media guide features a caricature of Bird and a leprechaun, the team's mascot, handing an NBA championship trophy to Parish, McHale, Reg­gie Lewis and Dee Brown. 
But Bird has tried to stay out of sight this fall, allowing his former teammates to grab the spotlight. He joined the team during its closed practices at the start of training camp, yet was absent during open ses­sions. 
"Larry Bird is probably the best player I ever played with or against, but he's not playing anymore," McHale said. "It's almost like it's sacrilegious to talk about him after he's gone. Just remember what he did." 
With Bird retired, McHale's availability is one of the biggest concerns for the Celtics this season. The ankle problems that have haunted him since 1987, and which required surgery two seasons ago, are plaguing him again. 
McHale missed the Celtics' first four preseason games and is making slow improvement from the swelling and pain that force him to wear an ankle brace when playing. 
"I still love to play basketball. I don't enjoy being hurt," said McHale, entering his 13th pro season. "And if there comes a time that I'm hurt all the time, I just can't play." 
"You're very used to asking your body to perform at a cer­tain level. It's like your best friend turning his back on you," he added. "I don't think you ever realize how good you were until you get hurt." 
Men 
continued from page 28 
did not run as a pack in their last meet and Coach Piane at­tributes this breakdown to their defeat. 
The MCC's does not have as strong a field as the last meet and Piane is confident that Notre Dame will be able to stay together. 
"If they can't find themselves at the start of this race, they're Stevie Wonder," Piane said. 
---~~---------~-~­
page 22 The Observer Friday, October 30, 1992 
Men's swimming kicks off season this weekend 
BY ALLISON MCCARTHY Randy Julian, the key events in team is led by Captain Jenny Sports Writer the tournament will be the Stumm and a new head coach, freestyle ones. "We'll be look­Adam Hirschfeld. 
The Irish men's swimming ing for balance and new On Saturday at 7:00 p.m., the team kicks off its season this freestylers. We have a big Irish will compete against weekend with high hopes for a freshman class; eleven of the Western Ontario in what is the 
successful year. The first meet twenty-eight men on the roster longest running US/Canada 
of the season will begin at 9:30 have never raced in an ND swim meet. This is the teams' this morning at Rolf's Aquatic cap," said Welsh. thirty-first meeting, according Center. It is an MCC dual meet The second meet of the day to Welsh. tournament. The Irish will host begins at 4:00 p.m. at Rolfs. It "Notre Dame has a pretty Butler, Duquesne, Loyola, and is the twenty-eighth annual commanding lead in the series, Xavier University. Notre Dame men's relays. but last year, Western Ontario 
According to Notre Dame's In addition to swimming, had their best team that I can head swimming coach, Tim there will be one and three me­remember during my time here, Welsh, and assistant coach ter diving in the morning and which should make for some 
afternoon. The Notre Dame close races for first place this 

Senior Ed Broderick, who owns numerous University records, will lead the Irish in its upcoming season. 
year," said Welsh. 

The coaches are focused primarily on team unity and look to team development throughout the season for their success. "I think we're going to be a very good team, but the question is when will we be­come a good team. Both meets wiJJ help us evaluate how close or how far we are from becom­ing that. 
Our training has improved tremendously in the last couple of weeks. That's one indicator, but this is our first competi­tion," said Julian. 
"We have two more tune-up meets before National Catholics, Bowling Green and Ball State, both of which will be very challenging. National Catholics is the main focus of our season, and we think, because of this, our intensity will increase from weekend to weekend," stated Welsh. 
The National Catholics Swimming and Diving Champi­onships, hosted this year by Providence College, will take place December 4-6 at the Uni­versity of Rhode Island. The Notre Dame men's team has taken first place for the last three years, followed by a sec­ond place LaSalle in the last two meets. 
"Our ambition is to win it," said Welsh of the meet. "We are a changed team from last year. What makes the season exciting is that we need to Jearn what we can do." 
The coaches are relying on the senior captains, John God­frey and Tom Whowell, and the rest of the senior class for lead­ership this season. "We look to the seniors and expect them to do a great job for us. We have very strong seniors in the 100 and 200 yard backstroke and freestyle and 100 yard breast, as well as the 200 I.M." Seniors also hold three of the four positions in the medley relay. 
"We have a good, tough meet schedule, but it is our goal to finish the season undefeated," said Godfrey. 
The season continues with several dual meets and con­cludes with Eastern Collegiate Championships and NCAA Championships in the spring. 
In the meantime, the Irish face a full season with meets against Purdue, Arizona State, St. Bonaventure's and Ball State, among others. "Those are always challenging meets. If we can get through those successfully, I feel we'll do very well,"stated Godfrey. 

Friday, October 30, 1992 The Observer 
page 23 

lnterhall baseball ends, women's football heats up 
Flanner takes baseball title 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
Flanner squeaked by St. Ed's, 5-4, in a close game to win the interhall baseball champi­onship game on Wednesday night. 
The 'Cocks were led by pitcher Mike Rood who pitched a complete game. The sopho­more started out slow, but was in control in the final innings. 
At the plate, St. Ed's got things started early, scoring two runs in the first inning. Junior John Ryan drove in fel­low junior Kevin Huie and sophomore Mike Drendel. Drendel also scored later in the game to bring St. Ed's within one run. 
Flanner came right back in its half of the first inning with a two-run homerun to centerfield hit by sophomore Jason Woodrun. The round-tripper also scored freshman Jeremy Miller. 
Miller added a run-scoring triple later in the game which brought sophomore Kevin Halfpenny across the plate. Dave Owings' sacrifice fly scored senior David Schumerth for another run. The winning run was scored by Rood on a deep single to left by Erich Baker. 
Freshman Mark Posmer pitched the first 2-1/3 innings before becoming ill. Ryan re­placed him and pitched well in relief. Ryan also contributed to the St. Ed's effort with three runs batted in. 
The game featured strong de­fensive performances from members of both the Flanner and St. Ed's teams. 
Flanner finishes the season with a perfect 8-0 record while St. Ed's finishes with a 5-3 record. 

Notre Dame Communication & Theatre 
C:IDEffiR RT THE SDITE 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:15 , 9:45 
Al 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAIH, INDIANA 46556 


PW-Siegfried showdown highlights playoff action 
By HEATHER WILEY 
Sports Writer 
On 'Sunday, it might be a good idea to check out the action at Cartier field when the girls in­terhall football playoffs begin-sparks seem to be flying everywhere, along with footballs. 
The matchups include a mod­quad grudge match between the Pasquerilla West Weasels and the Siegfried Slammers after the Slammers (formerly 2­
2) soundly defeated the unde­feated Weasels 26-6 in the last game of regular season play, which gave the Slammers their playoff berth. 
Pasquerilla West will be trying to avenge the loss while Siegfried will look for a repeat. The game will begin at 9 p.m. at Cartier field. 
Lewis will face Lyons for the first time this season, with both teams showing an improvement in moving the ball over the last few weeks, and both teams vying for the championship. The game will begin at 6 p.m. at Cartier field. 
BP faces Knott in another 
cross-league playoff this Sun­day. Knott, which has shown great offensive improvement since the beginning of the sea­son, faces a strong BP team which is looking for a repeat of last year's championship. They will meet at 4 p.m. at Cartier. 
Badin and Walsh will renew their rivalry again this week­end, as Badin defeated Walsh last year in the play-offs, and looks for apother victory, while Walsh hopes to repeat their earlier win over Badin this sea­son. You can catch this game at 5 p.m. on Sunday. 
Dallas' Irvin expects angry Eagle squad 
IRVING, Texas (AP)-Michael Irvin doesn't mind losing a bet because the Dallas Cowboys are on top in the NFC East. 
The Cowboys' fast-talking wide receiver decided earlier this season that he'd like to make some extra bucks. He chose as his mark running back Emmitt Smith. It was a bad choice. 
"I thought I'd make a lot more touchdowns than he would, so we bet on touch­downs," Irvin said. "I haven't made one in four games. Em­mitt got three last week. It's 9­to-4 in his favor, and it's over. 

AssociATE VrcE PRESIDENT UNIVERSITY RELATIONS 219/239-5122 
October 20, 1992 
To the Editor of the Observer: 
As the major filming of the movie "Rudy" gets underway, may I remind the Notre Dame community that some minor inconveniences will come with it. 
Members of the production company and others involved in the movie are very appreciative of the hospitality thus•far extended them, and they hope to make their own small contribution to the educational endeavor here, principally through liaison with the Department of Art, Art History and Design and the Department of 
Communication and Theater. 
Please understand, however, that some minor campus routine is inevitable. You may not be customary sidewalk on a given afternoon, or find a closed or a campus location temporarily off-limits. are committed to keeping these to a minimum, but forbearance and patience in advance. 
disruption of able to use a roadway briefly The producers they ask your 

"It's been tough on me the last few weeks, but we've been winning. I guess that's all that counts. But it looks like Emmitt is going to beat me." 
Irvin -who has not revealed the amount of the wager -also figures the Philadelphia defense will be beating up on him again Sunday in a showdown at Texas Stadium between the Cowboys (6-1) and the Eagles (5-2). 
"They are going to come in here real mad because of the way they've been playing re­cently," Irvin said of the Eagles, who had lost two straight games and then struggled last Sunday to beat lowly Phoenix. "This is their big chance to get back in the race and they know 

u. . 
"In fact, the Eagles are a little desperate. I'd much rather have them strolling into Texas Stadium with four or five wins then two losses over the last three weeks like they have." 
Irvin has dropped down the NFC receiving charts in recent weeks. He's fourth with 36 catches for 728 yards. But his average of 20.2 yards per catch leads the NFL. 
''I'm getting a lot of double teams but we make them pay when they do that," Irvin said. 
Irvin said the Cowboys want to make up for the embarrass­ing 31-7 loss to the Eagles ear­lier this season on Monday Night Football. 
"I know it sounds funny to say, but we really didn't play that bad a game," Irvin said. "We just had all those turnovers." 
Quarterback Troy Aikman was intercepted three times by the Philadelphia defense. 
~ l 
l 
i 
1 


~--------~~----------------~--------~------------------------------~--------------~--------------------------------~ ------­
Serving ND/SMC 6iiiiia.ii;;=~ Students for 27 yearsGO IRISH! Beat Navy! r--coianiafPancikeliouse-1 I ISeptember : Apple Pancake : I ISpecial: I SAVE $1.00 off I I IThick Sliced I exp. 10/30/92 1 L-----------------------~Cinnamon r--colaniafPancikeliouse-1 I IFrench Toast I Any Omelette I I I$.50 off I· SAVE $1.00 off I I Iall month I exp. 10/30/92 1 L-----------------------~ no coupon needed U.S. 31(Dixieway) North in Roseland (Across from Holiday Inn) Open at 6:00a.m. daily 272-7433 Just North of Campus  
New Homestyle Dinners like Meatloaf, Country Fried Steak, Barbecued Chicken, Ham Steak and Pot Roast. New 1-lomestyle vegetables such as Baked Sweet Potatoes, Green Beans, Mashed Potatoes, Broccoli and Cheese and };~~~~~s ~~~~~;~~~a~rsles.wHhileobrNeadEand~sh~oney·s To-E,ll Soup, Salad & Fruit Bar m,ay seem like gravy. they re really the. H l D' ® icing on the cake. omesty e mners 303 Dixie Way South, Roseland  

The Observer 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp Freshman Tiffany Raczynski (5) and sophomores Kimberly Rivers (4) and Jeanamarie Niklas (9) look on for the Saint Mary's volleyball team. The Belles ended up the home season on Tuesday. 
Daniel leads defense 
Junior defenseman Katie Daniel, shown here against Kalamazoo, was a key for the Saint Mary's defense in their 3-0 shutout at DePauw yesterday that closed out their season. 
Women 
continued from page 28 

Catholic Invitational September 25. 
In last year's Conference Championships, the Irish suf­fered a tough loss to the Ram­blers, and they are looking to run with a vengeance this year. 
"Everyone's looking for a good team performance this weekend, and hopefully this will help to prepare us for the District Meet," continued Husted. 
The Irish will try to use this race as a catapult for the upcoming NCAA District Meet November 14. 
~, 0~ ~· 0~ ~& ':\'\ $1
~~~o~~"i 

,~q}IJ> Coupon '1'(for any item) 
(expires 11/l/92) 
•present couportat door 
1 mile east of campus 
HUDDLE 
239-6901 283-2400 
Pizza DeUvered 1b Your Room! 

Friday, October 30, 1992 

SMC volleyball ends season 
By EILEEN MCGUIRE 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's Belles had a desire to finish their season with style. 
They lost their last home game to Saint Xavier College 17-19, 15-3, 12-15, 9-15, but the Belles battled back to defeat North Park College Tuesday 16-14, 15-3, 15-10. 
Against Saint Xavier, the Belles put their best foot for­ward. They fought back from as much as a ten point deficit to create a tough atmosphere for 
Saint Xavier.  However,  the  
Belles  hard  work  was  not  
enough to win the match.  

"It's disappointing to lose the last home match," explained senior captain Karen Lorton. "It's frustrating to beat them 15-3 and then lose. We didn't take advantage of their errors." 
However, against North Park College, the Belles took advan­tage of everything even though North Park improved greatly from last year. 
"They were scrappy and did well on the serve receive," said Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. 
Senior co-captain Laura Panowicz provided the team with ten service points in a row in the second game. "I'm very happy with her consistent per­formance," praised Schroeder­Biek. 
Co-captain Karen Lorton and junior Mary Wheeler also con­tributed eighteen and nine kills respectively. Defensively, setter Michelle Martino chipped in with 38 assists. 
Saint Mary's volleyball team will finish their season this weekend in a quad-match in­volving Goshen College, Huntinton College and School­craft College. 
Schoolcraft, a junior college, won its division last year while both Goshen and Huntinton have impressive records, ac­cording to Schroeder-Biek. 
"It will be a good, tough finish for us," stated Schroeder­Biek,"But I know the team wants to win it-especially for the seniors." 

---------------~----------­
The Observer page 25 
Friday, October 30, 1992 
Women's swimming focused as season begins 
By HALEY SCOTT creased our cgmmitment, and 
freshmen class. We are lucky giate Conference dual meet, a Sports Writer our discipline is higher," said because of the lack of recruiting meet at which the Irish have head coach Tim Welsh. "Our after the accident," Roby said. repeatedly dominated. This Not a day goes by that the daily performance level is Welsh feels that team unity afternoon at 4:00 pm the members of the Notre Dame higher, and I think this team equals better team perfor­women swimmers will take on women's swim team fail to has made a big step towards mance. the MCC teams at the Notre Last year the team came Dame relay meet. Tomorrow
think about last year's bus acci­athletic excellence." 
together to support one another night the Irish swim Westerndent. However, as they begin 
Not all of the swimmers and in healing, and this year the Ontario at 7:00 pm. the 1992-'93 season today, the 
swimmers have channelled divers are back in the water. team must support one another, their energy into becoming a Because of injuries, returning and the freshmen, to achieve With Notre Dame being the team members and freshmen team unity. strongest team at all the meets
stronger team. have been training hard for the Lorrei Horenkamp "The captains have been real this weekend, their competition last month and a half. "I'm good about making the fresh­will come from within. 
"The team has really in­we have been working really
excited to swim because men feel welcome," said
creased its focus, we've in-really 
hard," said sophomore distance freestyler Lorrei Horenkamp. "The objective this weekend isspecialist Angie Roby. 
to get as much swimming as The swim team opens their possible into three
The freshmen will also play a 
season at Rolfs Aquatic Center competitions," stated Welsh, as
large role in improving the 
with three meets this weekend. swimmers will be racing up to
team. Besides making up half 
This morning they will partici­seven events plus relays. "I
of the team, they are an elite 
pate in the Midwestern Colle-can't wait to see them race." 
group. "We have a real strong 
Purdue names new athletic director 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) will be named athletic director W. Hicks said Thursday Morgan J. Burke, an of Purdue University Friday, evening. executive with Inland Steel Co., interim athletic director John Burke, who is vice president 
GUIDED BY 

for operating and administra­tive services at Inland's Indiana Harbor Works at East Chicago, 
STUDENTS, FACULTV & STAFF 
An opportunity, In dialogue with others. to deepen your understand­
probably won't begin his new
Ing of yourself, your values, your relationship with Christ. your experience of Christian community and service. 
job until Jan. 1, Hicks told The 
Associated Press. 
Happy 21st 
RETREAT DATES: December 4-6, 1992 
Burke, 41, is a Purdue grad­uate and was captain of the
Bob lmbur 
FORMS 

university's swimming team during the 1972-73 season. 
AVAILABLE: November 2-6 
SIGN UP 

He'll replace George King,
DEADLINE: November 6 
who retired July 1.
From 
APPLICATIONS: 

Hicks, 70, offered nothing but
ACCEPTED: 

your little sister, 
praise for Burks, saying he 
CONTACT: Campus Mlnlslry Office 
possessed all the qualities
103 Hesburgh library 
Lesley 
needed in an athletic director. 
239-7800 

"I was very, very much im­
0MPUS 
COST: $25.00 

pressed by him," Hicks said. "I 
saw him a couple of times when 
he was here." 
MINISTRY 

THE 
Tues. Nov. 10 Stepan Center 8:00PM 
_,........... 

TICKETS ON SALE NOW AT LaFORTUNE INFO DESK $10 STUDENTS/$15 PUBLIC 

.. 
·"'· 
~-... 
1 I 
I 
l 

~---~------------~---------~----------~------------­
T 
.. 
i i 
i 
I .. 
l _ _ f 
f 
t 
t I 
I 
i 
I 
I i 
l 
The Observer Friday, October 30, 1992 

Women's soccer seeks post-season bid 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN The Xavier contest will carry 1991 campaign in which she Sports Writer extra importance as it is for the totaled 18 points and a team­The Notre Dame women's Midwestern Collegiate Confer­high six assists. A year ago the 
soccer team plays the final two ence championship. The Lady Irish prevailed against Wright games of its season this week­Musketeers boast an impressive State 2-1. end, traveling to Xavier on Fri­14-3-2 record and returned ten This weekend could be the fi­day before a Saturday matchup starters from a year ago. Junior nal appearance of a talented with Wright State. goaltender Kelcey Ervick heads senior class, which brought 
Both games are crucial for the that list, averaging less than Notre Dame to national recog­
Irish as they seek a bid to the one goal given up per game in nition. Goalkeeper Michelle NCAA tournament. At 11-5-1 nineteen starts in 1991. Xavier Lodyga, sweeper Margaret Jarc, with a 16th national ranking, finished second in the MCC last and defenders Andrea Kurek Notre Dame appears on the year after falling to Notre Dame and Denise Chabot have made bubble for a post-season invita­in its only conference loss. lasting contributions to the tion. It will be a tough season fi­program in their four years. 
"We have to win the rest of nale for the Irish as a high­"All we can do is go out and our games and hope that some scoring offense has led Wright win the rest of our games," teams lose," said Irish coach State to a 11-6-1 record. commented Jarc, "And hope Chris Petrucelli. "These are two Melissa Jones anchors the of­that we will get an opportunity 
important games for us." fense after returning from a to keep playing." 
If there's a pain in vour chest, be a 

pain in the neck. ~?t-9~ GR£-1-YT 'YALL

J..~ CHINESE AMERICAN RESTAURANT & COCKTAIL LOUNGE Complain to a doctor. Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine! 
UNDAY BUFFET BRUNCH 
Every Sunday 11:30 a.m.-3:00p.m. 
ALL YOU CAN EAT$895 ~~~~ $395 
Includes Soup, Salad Bar, Appetizers, 8 Different Entrees & Desserts 130 Dixie Wav S., South Bend 272 7376 
to lfandall's Inn) • 



EarnS As A Mobile Disc-Jockey!! 
Successful DJ Sen•ice shares it's secrets with a complete instructional video. 
Professionally produced by Excelsior Video Service. 

All Aspects Covered ~~~~--~ 
Including: 
Selecting A Sound System Advertising Esential Music Catalog Music Mixing Techniques Finding Your Style Proper Wedding Etiquette and MUCH MORE! 
Perfect incone for college students!

A Sound investment at only $29.95 (Please add $3.00 for shipping & Mail your order to: include your return address & phone #) 3101 Funnan Dlvd. Louisville, KY 40220 For Additional Information call (502) 454-5141 

COME TO OUR SALON WITH YOUR STUDENT 
I.D. CARD AND RECEIVE A "SMART HEAD CARD" WHICH ENTITLES YOU TO 
25%0FF 
ALL SERVICES IN OUR SALON ALL YEAR 
(Not good with any other discount) 

Visit any one of our many beauty salon locations including: 
•University Park, 
277-2950 


page 26 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
Sophomore Jodi Hartwig battles a LaSalle defender in the Irish win. 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM Friday, October 30 
Irish Hockey vs Defending National Champ Lake Superior State 7:00pm JACC 
"Welcome to the CCHA Party" ree party hats and cake sponsored by Centel Cellular 
#23 Volleyball vs Evansville JACC @) 
Saturday, October 31 ?? 
­
Irish Hockey vs Lake Superior State ~ :OOpm JACC 
Students/Kids in costume get in free *--Grand prize for best costume ree candy for the first I 000 kids courtesy of Claey 's Candy 
#23 Volleyball vs Butler 7:30pm JACC Students/Kids in costume get in free -Grand prize for best costume 
*General admission only 
DUKE UNIVERSITY 
School of the Environment 
Comprehensive, multidisciplinary graduate programs in forestry and the environment, including new coastal management program. 
All undergraduate majors considered. Professional degree tracks (Master of Forestry, Master of Environmental Management) and graduate degree tracks (M.A., M.S., Ph. D.). 
Placement assistance for internships and permanent employment. 
Office of Enrollment Services School of the Environment Duke University Durham, NC 27706 Telephone (919) 684-2135 



--~ --­

~~~------------------------------------..... 
Today
II. 

Friday, October 30, 1992 page 27 
Happy Halloween Brought to you by Domino's 



THE ADDAMS FAMILY SHOWING FIUDAY, OCT. 30 & SATURDAY, OCT. 31 All movies are shown at 8:00p.m. and 10:30 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium. Price of admission: $2.00  As seen on Saturday Night Live Featuring the hits ''Little Miss Can 't Be Wrong" and 'Jimmy Olsen sBlues" Appearing 8 p.m. Tuesday, Nov. 10 at Stepan Center Tickets $10 at LaFortune Info Desk STUDENT UNION BOARD  

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

ACROSS 30 Margay, e.g. 1 Starboard side 31 They sponge of a compass 33 Funeral oration 5 Pedestrian 35 Galore pathways 37 Delete 14 On the Ligurian 38 A u.s. Open 15 Sailor's light winner: 1992 rope for seizing 39 TV's Alice Hyatt 1& Swim's d h ··b
alternative 40 Adjuste t e Jl 42 Kind of world 
17 Subsurface movement of 43 Kind of fly water 45 Island garlands 11 Ford failure 48 Singular 20 Tonic 47 Genetic acid, 22 Get the point for short 23 Cries of surprise 48 Tuck away 21 So-so grade 49 Actress Alicia 27 Asian isthmus 52 Ban 28 L-Q connection 54 Costume or 29 Plus custom 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Kedrova 12 Render unconscious 13 Waste-disposal 
19 Tuneful subject of deterioration system 
=+::-+:-t:-t 24 Take the lion's share 
s&"... the-Te Deumsofthe Canterbury bells": Lowell 
&1 Hollywood and 
&2 Illegal copies 83 Lyric literature 64 With 5 Across, 
puzzle's theme 85 Port side of a compass 
DOWN 
1 Slackens 2 Stage whisper 3 Sight, for one 4 Appropriate sConfucian 
golden rule &Type of jet 
engine 7 Failure a Suffix with Tyrol 9Towoo, in 
Wiesbaden 10 Puzzle's theme was his campaign song 
j ! 
t 
j 
I 
! 
25 Broad ranges of related ideas 28 Kind of soap 28 Star followers 31 Cloister vault 32 Capek opus 
34"­
Lieutenants,n Freeman book 35 Standoffish 
38Castel-, summer residence of popes 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BILL WATTERSON 
II DOt.S~T MAl\t.~ IF ~0\J 'tl\~ ClR LOSt:, \IS 1/01'1 

IO·'!tO C 1992 FarWorts. lncJOistributed by Universal Press Syndicate 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
"Well, this isn't very promising." 
41-culpa 44"-afine 
seam" 48 Stand so Royals and 
Reds 51 Nuclear experiment 53 Scorch 
55 Admit 
57 Askew 
58 End of the ell 
farmer's refrain 59 Finisher for musket eo Sound of disapproval 


Sports 
page 28 
Friday, October 30, 1992 
JENNY 


Cross-Country teams seek MCC sweep 
MARTEN 

Women seek 
Men going for 
On Top of Sports 

revenge fifth-straight 
1-----------------l By MIKE NORBUT 
By SEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports WriterTake a look at some Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's The Notre Dame men's
surprisingly good 
cross country team heads cross country team, ranked into the. post-season Saturday 12th in the nation, competeswomen's football as it will compete in the this Saturday for the Midwestern Collegiate
The time has come again. Midwestern CollegiateConference Championships in Conference championship in
The regular season is over. The pairings are final. The winner takes all. Cincinnati, OH. Cincinnati, Ohio. The Irish The Irish are coming off of look to record their fifth
The women's interhall football 
an impressive victory October straight MCC victory in asplayoffs are scheduled to begin on Sunday. For most of the campus, it 16 at the Indiana many years of competition. 
lntercollegiates, run in West
really doesn't mean much, but for the Despite the strength of the Layfayette, IN. Led by Sarah Irish squad the MCC champi­
people who play and who coach the Riley, who paced the field
teams, this is serious business. onship always has the Not really a priority sport here to the with a time of 18:07, Notre potential for upset. Last year masses of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Dame defeated many Notre Dame went to the 
interstate rivals, including
community, women's interhall football MCC's expecting a resounding
Purdue, Indiana, and Ball victory. They left barely
is more than meets the eye. It actually takes some talent to play. State. edging out Loyola by one 
"We ran an excellent race point. This year the potentialThe teams have been practicing since 
two weeks ago, and I think upset lies with LaSalle.
the first weeks of school, organizing offenses and defenses which although we proved to the other LaSalle has a strong top four 
Indiana schools that we are a that may give the Irish somethey aren't in the same league with the strong cross country team," trouble.
college and pro teams, do have almost 
said sophomore Emily However Notre Dame is fo­as many plays and formations as men's 
Husted, who placed sixth in cused on victory. The Irish
interhall football. Most people would be surprised if the race. are coming off their first loss 
The course layout at of the season against the
they saw a game. Most teams, such as 
Cincinnati will be relatively University of Oregon. With amy team, P.W., run real plays and have flat compared to the Purdue loss in their belts, Notre Dame defenses which are dependent on how University course. This knows that they can not winthe other team lines up. 
should prove to be an extra on reputation alone. 
The games actually are extremely 
advantage for the Irish as "We've got something toentertaining. Besides the variety of 
they take on host Xavier, prove," said senior captainplays and formations ranging from the Butler, Detroit, and Loyola, John Coyle. 
simple option to more complex re­
their toughest opponent, a Irish head coach Joe Pianeverses, women's interhall football is 
team that Notre Dame wants Notre Dame to stay to­
also a physical game despite its non­The Observer/Jake Peters contact rules. defeated at the National Irish sophomore Emily Husted, shown here running against Michigan, gether in this race. The Irish 
It is not unusual to see a few tackles, see WOMEN/page24 will look to pace Notre Dame at this weekend's MCC Championship. see MEN/page25 mostly unintentional, as well as strong blocking and a few collisions. The 
Hockey takes on defending champ Lake Superior St.
women who play are serious and take the game very seriously (or in P.W. at 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY championships, ·iY their winning likely play cautiously on
least) and many are more than willing 
Sports Writer and are aiming ways at home. offense in order to avoid
to take a few bumps and falls for the 
to repeat as Notre Dame getting caught deep in the
good of the team. 
The University of Notre champions this leads the over­offensive zone. They need toI play on the defensive line and I can 
Dame hockey team will open year. all series, 3-1. minimize Laker 3 on 2's andpersonally vouch for the seriousness of 
its home season tonight at the 2 on l's.
the players. The offensive and 
Joyce Athletic and Carrying a Although the ..
defensive lines pretty much battle it out 
Convocation Center against young squad, Irish realize Playing in the CCHA, which at the line of scrimmage. Despite the defending NCAA champion Lake Superior that taking a is considered by many to befact that I regularly come away from Lake Superior State in the head coach Jeff game this the premier hockey league in 
games with some bruises, I have to 
first game of a double header Jackson has weekend would collegiate sports, the Irishadmit that it's fun to play on the line. 
which will conclude tomorrow said that this be a know that they have a difficult night. year's team is monumental road ahead of them. 
The games are played out on Cartier 
even better than Rick Schafer achievement,
Field, the field adjacent to Moose 
The Lakers, are ranked sec­last year's they are not en­With a schedule that isKrause Stadium. Up until last year, it ond in the Central Collegiate championship edition, a claim tering these games expecting amongst the most difficult in was a turf field and turf burns were a Hockey Association behind the which Notre Dame head to lose. According to Schafer, the nation, they are aiming toregular occurance, but the University University of Michigan in the coach Ric Schafer does not they are focusing "not just on improve as a team as well as
put grass down this year which 
1992-93 CCHA coaches' pre­take lightly. learning, but on learning to win games. 
everyone's knees and elbows 
season poll, finished second in win first and foremost." 
appreciate. 
the league regular season "We have a lot of respect for "We want to become better standings last year. their program," said Schafer. Because Lake Superior has and better every week,"
I would hope that every person at 
With a 0-3 record to date, the a wide open, free-wheeling of­Schafer said, "Because that
this school could see a women's 
They have captured two Irish would love to steal a win fense and an abundance of will result in more and moreinterhall football game before he or she consecutive CCHA Playoff from the Lakers and start talent, Notre Dame will most wins."
leaves. The games are entertaining as are the fans and their spiritedness. For example, Badin has its own pep band and P.W. has its own mascot, just to name a few. 
I guarantee that anyone who has never seen one of these games will be surprised at how into the games the teams really are and how well they play. 
Not to brag, but we aren't just a bunch of girls, we are also pretty good touch football players. 
INSIDE SPORTS 
IISaint Mary's roundup 
see page 24 
•en's and women's swimming previews 
see page 26 and 29 

• Volleyball starts MCC competition The "B-train" 25
see page Irish fullback Jerome Bettis will rumble into the Meadowlands and over the Navy defense at Saturday's meeting with the Midshipmen. 









