The Observer
VOL. XXV. N0.33 WEDNESDAY,OCTOBER 7, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
House adjourns; Senate faces $27 million tax bill 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The The Senate remained in ses­102nd Congress stumbled to­sion Tuesday evening, despite ward adjournment Tuesday, the the sundown start of the Jewish House going home but the Yom Kippur holy day. Clerks Senate staying on to face a $27 laboriously read aloud hun­billion tax bill and stubborn dreds of pages of text of a de­stalling by dissenting lawmak­tailed water projects bill -the ers. result of stalling tactics by Re­
It was a fitting finale for a publican Sen. John Seymour of messy, contentious Congress. California. 
House members approved the Mter more than six hours of disputed tax bill on a 208-202 reading, the Senate gave its vote and left shortly after noon, clerks a rest and went into a presumably for the year -recess "subject to the call of the though they could return to chair." Senators were left session, if necessary. standing by while Senate Ma­
House Majority Leader jority Leader George Mitchell Richard Gephardt told Presi­sought an agreement on how to dent Bush in a telephone call: proceed. "We have now sent our mem­Senate leaders said Seymour bers home. Our legislative ef­agreed to assume that the fort has been completed." He reading would continue at a said the House's adjournment pace of 40 pages an hour, even 
The Observer/Sue Kehias

A Hawaiian performance
would take effect officially once though the reading had actually the Senate concludes. stopped. 
Senior Taison Tanaka, Lyons Hall senior Diane Wong, and Ryan Delapena (left to right), members of the 
But no one was sure when Mitchell said the Senate may 
Hawaiian Club, dance the Hawaiian lula dance at the Fieldhouse Mall. Their performance was part of the that would be. see CONGRESS/ page 4 
week-long Multicultural Fall Festival sponsored by the Multicultural Executive Council. 

HPC creates $25,000 service fund Student-produced show 
By BEVIN KOVALIK oriented body, especially with feels that if there is a need they 


broadcasts for first time 
News Writer the windfall from sales of "The will offer the service, but the Shirt." administration wants proof that By JENNIFER HABRYCH According to Megan Thomas, The Hall Presidents' Council NBC responded to Student students are interested, he said. 
News Writer the entertainment beat re­
(HPC) unanimously passed a Senate's appeal for a formal In other business, Cavanaugh porter, "Everyone is really ex­resolution to allocate $25,000 to apology for broadcasting Sinead Hall will be presenting its Notre Dame Magazine, a stu­cited about putting everything initiate an HPC Service Fund in O'Connor's performance during eleventh annual charity event dent-produced show, aired for together...but we're a little bit accordance with the unani­last Saturday's episode of play, and tryouts will be Oct. 28 the first time last night on Her­nervous also. The first show is mously-passed Title IV Saturday Night Live by issuing from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. in itage Cablevision channel 31. a little rough around the edges, amendment in the HPC Charter an apology stating that they too Montgomery Hall Theater, The show is on one hour once but we are working to improveBy-Laws, according to Jason were outraged by the LaFortune, and Oct. 
a month, and is devoted to on it." 
Coyle, co-chair. performance, according to 29 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in news, entertainment and sports "Notre Dame really doesn'tThe Service Fund amendment Molly O'Neil, student body vice Cavanaugh Hall. John at Notre Dame. have anything like this,"to the HPC Charter By-Laws president. Ruskusky, Cavanaugh Hall, "It's the only show of its kind Thomas continued. "Otherestablishes the service fund to A plan for delivering laundry asked that all dorms donate strictly devoted to Notre colleges have entirely studentfacilitate student-organized bundles from St. Michael's money to charity in the form of Dame," said Chris Schulz, cre­run television stations. It'scommunity service activities in Service directly to the dorms so program space. 
ator and executive producer of really a great opportunity forconjunction with annual that students do not have to Walsh Hall will collect pop the show. "It will feature every­us to really do everything byproceeds from "The Shirt" pick them up was addressed by tabs to benefit a recycling pro­thing on campus and will be as ourselves."
project, according to Coyle. Chuck Young and Bong ject for Ronald McDonald House 
comprehensive as possible, The target audience for the
The amendment also states Miquiabas, Student Govern­of the 1\vin Cities, according to 
covering news events in the show is the student body ofthat "The Shirt" revenues, ex­ment. Katie Teibel, hall president. 
past month, coming events, en­Notre Dame, according toceeding $50,000, will be allo­"The delivery service will be Dorms willing to participate tertainment news, and sports." Schulz, but he also pointed outcated to the HPC Service Fund an easy source of revenue for can give the collected pop tabs All reporting, editing and that it's cable availability onat the rate of 60 cents per dol­participating dorms and will to her, and she will send them production of the show is done campus is limited to the com­lar, not to exceed $25,000 per make things easier on the stu­to Mounds Park Academy in the by seven students with prior munity rooms. "We hope thatyear, he said. dents," Young said. Twin Cities so that the school experience in radio or media with some promotion and if
"We will be designating The main concerns of the children can present them to 
classes. people watch the show more money made from "The Shirt" administration are the problems the Ronald McDonald House. 
"Heritage hands the studio and more people get involved
for service initiative," Coyle with liability, the necessity of "These kids realize what they over to us to do what we have with it." 
said. "We decided that HPC the delivery service, and the are doing to help and they like 
to do to get it done," said
should become a more service approval of the rectors, doing it," Teibel said. 
Schulz.

Miquiabas said. The University 

Right-to-Life addressed 
By GERALDINE HAMILTON 
News Writer 

As part of Respect Life Week the pro-life activist group, Col­legians Activated to Liberate Life (CALL) spoke at the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's pro-life group meeting about the need for people to become active in the fight to stop abortion. 
Three representatives from CALL devoted a year to pro-life work, and they have been traveling for the last three weeks to midwest colleges to get support for the pro-life cause, said Bill Keen, co-presi­dent of the Right to Life group. "CALL is an organization geared toward activism-to­ward getting people involved," he said. 
The purpose of CALL is to create a community of network leaders dedicated to the pro­
The Observer/Sue Kehias Peter Heers, a Collegians Activated to Liberate Life (CALL) representative, speaks at a pro-life group 
life cause, said Peter Heers, 
meet1ng. see CALL I page 4 

see TELEVISION/ page 4 


Members await court decision 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT 
News Writer 
As the Notre Dame 6ight to Life Organization celebrates National Respect Life Week, co-presidents Bill Keen and Claire Johnson and member Elizabeth Boyce await court decisions on their involvement in an abortion protest last April at a clinic in Champaign, Illinois. 
Keen, Johnson and Boyce were arrested on April 17 along with 70 others at a "rescue operation" sponsored by the group Collegians Activated to Liberate Life (CALL) . They were all charged with criminal trespassing, mob 
see DECISION I page 4 


----------,-----­
page 2 The Observer Wednesday, October 7,1992 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Demands and regrets don't show tolerance 
To hear them talk about ""f 

it, victory has never tasted 
so good. 

After lambasting NBC and the historically raucous "Saturday Night.....,.~ Live" for last week's performance by the equally outspoken Sinead O'Connor, Notre Dame's Student Senate is revellin~------­in the network's conciliatory -yet spineless ­retraction. 
Most observers by now know the story: O'Connor, during an emotional performance o Bob Marley's "War," ripped into pieces a photo of Pope John Paul II, referring to him as "the real enemy." A stunned audience was just the beginning of NBC's woes, for the network soon found its switchboard jammed with calls from complaining viewers. 
Among the outraged was the Notre Dame Student Senate, who passed a resolution demanding an apology and statement of regret from NBC. "This country was founded on religious tolerance," SUB Manager Pat McCarthy said at Monday's senate meeting. "The action displayed no tolerance, no respect." 
The senate got what it wanted. In a statement released Tuesday, NBC denounced O'Connor and apologized to the nation for her actions. "NBC had no knowledge of what she was going to do," the statement read. "Had we known NBC would not have permitted it." 
Is this the 'tolerance' McCarthy speaks of? Essentially, both the senate and NBC have redefined the term, which to most (including Webster) describes the "fair and permissible attitude toward opinions and practices that differ from one's own." 
Of course O'Connor's opinions and practices differ from the senate's, and much of the Notre Dame community. She hails from a war-torn Ireland, mired in religious and social unrest. Few would be pressed to deny that O'Connor has legitimate grounds for her religious sentiment -just as few could deny the religious grounds that conservatives like Pat Buchanan cite for anti-homosexual remarks, or constitutional grounds that liberals like Bill Clinton cite for a pro-choice stance. 
In each and every case, tolerance requires watching, listening and understanding. It does not now, and never will, require agreement. 
The hypocrisy of the senate's resolution should overwhelm anyone with basic First Amendment knowledge and a working conscience. Not only did the senate overreact to the situation and appear self-righteous and self­serving in its media barrage, but the group ironically furthered O'Connor's argument by over-publicizing it. 
In demanding that NBC drop to its knees over O'Connor's actions, the senate asked the network to make a judgment that her work was more than offensive, that it was hateful, intolerant and therefore unacceptable. 
Surely, student leaders with a reverence for religion would understand that no human possesses such a power to judge. That is, after all, what tolerance is all about. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Monica Yant 
Editor-in-Chief 
FRONTS: 

." •• •• •
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Prassura 
H L 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
CAMPUS Notre Dame alumnus djes 
BETHEL PARK, Pa. --David Freedy, 1989 Notre Dame alumnus, died of cancer Sunday at his home in Bethel Park, Pa. Freedy was in his fourth year of stud­ies at Vanderbilt University Medical School. The former Keenan Hall president and resident assistant received an undergraduate degree in biology. A memorial Mass will be held Nov. 1 at 4:30 p.m. in Keenan Hall A wake was to be held today, and the burial is scheduled for Thursday morning. Condolences may be addressed to Freedy's family: 105 Santa Fe Drive, Bethel Park, PA. 15102. 
OF INTEREST 

~ van driver training course will be offered today at 5 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
•The 
Arts and Letters Business Society will hold an organizational meeting at 6 p.m. in the Dooley Room, first floor LaFortune. For more information, call Darcy at 283-3427 or Colleen at 239-5303. 

•An 
open Alcoholics Anonymous meeting will be held at 6 p.m. in the office of Drug and Alcohol Education, LaFortune Student Center. 

•International 
students seeking employment will be provided with a summary of pertinent immigration laws affecting domestic employment at a meeting at 6:30 


p.m. in the Career and Placement Services waiting room. 
•"What is Graduate Education? And is it for Me?". a presentation from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. in the Mont­gomery Theater, LaFortune. The presentation will be led by Nathan Hatch, vice president and dean of the graduate school, assisted by professors Chris Vanden Bossche, English department; Jeanne Day, psychology department; and Kevin Christiano, sociology department. 
~ Urban Plunge informational meeting will be held tonight at 6:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
FORECAST 
Mostly sunny today, becoming mostly cloudy by late afternoon. Highs around 70. A 30 percent chance of showers tonight. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  45  38  
Atlanta  68  50  
Bogota  64  41  
Boston  53  39  
Cairo  95  72  
Chicago  63  36  
Cleveland  58  35  
Dallas  88  60  
Detroit  62  39  
Indianapolis  66  41  
Jerusalem  88  68  
57  52  
85  62  
79  52  
73  54  
46  39  
71  44  
58  40  
Paris  54  50  
Philadelphia  60  42  
Rome  73  64  
Seattle  60  46  
South Bend  70  36  
Tokyo  66  50  
Washington, D.C.  63  43  


NATION Barbara Bush Assails Congress 
DENVER -Barbara Bush on Tuesday danced with senior citizens, hugged children and urged voters to stand with President Bush in his battle against Bill Clinton and "the scandal-ridden Congress." "This is going to be a tough race for the president and all Re­publican candidates," she told 750 Republican parti­sans at a $10-a-plate luncheon at the Jefferson County Fairgrounds. "I don't believe the polls," she told re­porters at a brief news conference. "I just don't believe them." As for Ross Perot, the latest entrant in the presidential race, she said, "I don't think it will make any difference. I go around and talk about George Bush and what he's done for the country. That's my kind of campaigning." 
•Rosary 
and benediction for the Feast of the Holy Rosary will be held tonight at the grotto at 6:45. Spon­sored by the Knights of the Immaculata. 

•The 
Holy Cross Associates Program will hold an informational session at 7 p.m. in the coffeehouse at the Center for Social Concerns. Former Associates will share reflections on service, community living, prayer and simple lifestyle in both the HCA domestic and Chile programs. 

•ND 
Co-dependents Anonymous. CODA. a 12-step recovery meeting will be at 7:30 p.m. in Sorin Hall Chapel. 


•NDCIBD Fundraising division will meet today at 8 
p.m. in the lobby on the second floor of Lafortune. 
•The 
Student Union Board Internal Relations Department is looking for an organized cheerful sopho­more or junior to fill a vacant position. If interested, please contact Jean Hazard at 239-7757. 

•The 
Center for the Homeless is sponsoring a hos­pitality luncheon Thursday from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 


p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Today's Staff 
Production  News  
Peggy Crooks  Frank Rivera  
Bryan Nowicki  Emily Hage  
Sports  Systems  
Jason Kelly  Harry Zembillas  
Accent  Lab Tech.  
Julie Wilkens  Pat McHugh  
Mary Schultze  
John LaGuidice  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Qbserver is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING October 6 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
284.392,700 -1.67 to 224.14 S&P COMPOSITE 

-.39 to 407.18 
DOW JONES INDUSTIUALS -21.61 to 3179.00

UNCHANGED 441 
GOLD 
-.40 to 350.10 SILVER 
-1.7 to 3.755 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1868: Cornell University was inaugurated in Ithaca, N.Y. 

• 
In 1960: Democratic presidential candidate John Kennedy and Republican opponent Richard Nixon held the second of their broadcast debates. 

• 
In 1968: The Motion Picture Association of America adopted its film-rating system, ranging from "G" for "general" audiences to "X" for adult patrons only. 

• 
In 1989: Hungary's Communist Party renounced Marxism in favor of democratic socialism during a party congress in Budapest. 

• 
In 1991: Anita Hill publicly accused Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas of making sexually inappropriate comments in her presence when she worked for him. 


----~------·-· ----­
Wednesday, October 7, 1992 


Equality Now working toward gender equality 
By ALICIA REALE Assistant News Editor 
Equality Now is working for gender equality through dedi­cation to international action for the civil, political, economic and social rights of women, according to Jessica Neuwirth, group president. 
"Hundreds of women around the world are bought, sold, beaten and killed with im­punity," she said at a lecture yesterday entitled "Equality Now!: Human Rights as if Women Mattered." 
Equality Now works with groups in other countries; sometimes with formal groups or lawyers in cases defending women . "We change the flavor of the community through our impact," said Neuwirth. 
They also try to "interact in a pro-active, constructive way to change the situation for women in the country," she said. "We provide women with alterna­tives, work to create opportuni­ties in business. Over time we hope to elevate female status in country." 
There is violence to women in all cultures, including our own which Equality Now works to combat, said Neuwirth. "Equality is a transcendent right," said Neuwirth. 
The group works for women's rights that have long been ignored in international organizations, national gov­ernments, traditional human rights groups and the press, said Neuwirth. 
Hundreds of millions of girls 

()~ 0() ~~<l.J r::-~0~ '" ~~0 r;:.()' ~"0 ~((,<l.J OPEN
"~ o.;:j 
'j 

7 Nights 

a Week 
•Opens at 3 p.m. 

and women around the globe continue to endure debilitating and often fatal human rights abuses, she said. 
For example, in India 10-year old girls are sold and exported to be wives in auctions held in back streets, and in Burma, women with AIDS are injected with cyanide and killed, said Neuwirth. 
"Human rights are not sub­ject to erosion under cultural relativism. Cultures are not monolithic," she said. 
Many international conven­tions protect human rights for women, such as international laws under the United Nations for equality and equal protec­tion under the law, she said. 
Equality Now mobilizes action on behalf of women whose rights are not protected and promotes women's rights at national and international levels through mail campaigns, video witnessing, media events and public information activi­ties, according to Neuwirth. 
The group gleans research from human rights groups, newspapers, governments and lawyers. "Accuracy and preci­sion are our highest priority," Neuwirth said. "We get and present facts. We let the facts speak for themselves." 
The group also takes action through "adaptation of human rights techniques which we use as catalysts for change,"she said. 
"We understand the impor­tance of audio visual communi­cation. Television and radio are the way in which most peo­ple learn," said Neuwirth. 
Don't Forget-­
Today is Wednesday 


LUNCHFAST 
SENIOR 
The Observer page 3 
Carberry receives Murphree Award 
By CARRIE KINSELLA News Writer 
James Carberry, professor of chemical engineering at Notre Dame, is the latest recipient of the E.V. Murphree Award in Industrial and Engineering Chemistry from the American Chemical Society. 
The award honors career ac­complishments and contribu­tions in research and develop­ment. This award is not given annually, and it is unusual for an engineer to receive it. 
James Kohn, assistant chairman of chemical engi­neering, expressed the de­partment's "delight in having a chemical engineer recognized" by this notable award. 
He graduated from Notre Dame in 1950 and received his Master's degree here, as well. He received a Ph.D. in chemical engineering from Yale Univer­sity before returning to Notre Dame in 1961. 
Carberry has distinguished 

Debartolo provides 'high-end' computer cluster 
By MATT BOWER News Writer 
The new academic year has brought with it many dramatic changes in Notre Dame's com­puting services. Both students and faculty now have access to top of the line hardware and services. 
The most notable addition to the Notre Dame computing is the new Debartolo computer cluster. 
"This new cluster is certainly a high-end cluster," said, James Ostlund, director of User Services. In addition to 78 new computers, the cluster also contains high speed laser printers and multimedia sta­tions. 
The Debartolo building has been equipped with several computers for classroom use. Computer instruction stations have been installed in 13 rooms, while two classrooms each contain 30 computers for student use. 
To complement the new hardware additions, University 






!CLUB 
You Deserve Better! Lunch 12--2 
" .. ,,,. 

This Friday 
must be 21 

James Carberry 
himself through numerous publications and awards, in­cluding his acceptance to the National Academy of Engineer­ing in 1989. He has also re­ceived many honors from the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, most recently their first Thiele Award (1992). 
He advocates "knowing the answer before you begin" to find solutions. Intuition has provided the source for his de­velopments, he said. He also is quick to acknowledge the use of cooperative research with other disciplines, because others can bring a different perspective to a problem. 
Carberry's research is pri­marily in the areas of reaction and catalytics, important in in­dustrial catalysis operations. A significant accomplishment was his development of the Carberry-Notre Dame reactor in 1964. 
In addition to his engineering accomplishments he has also written a legal and scientific argument against abortion with Douglas Kmiec of the Notre Dame Law School, and empha­sizes the importance of liberal arts in education. 
Carberry credits the source of his accomplishments to his students. He cites in particular the seniors' research projects ­"their enthusiasm provides an inspiration." 
He is currently working on molecular biology in collabora­tion with Cambridge University and Paul Huber from the Notre Dame department of biology and life sciences. 
Computing has installed many new services for both student and faculty use. The most no­table additions are E-mail and the Gopher networks. 
"The E-mail system allows students to correspond with others on this campus or on other campuses worldwide, re­ducing phone bills," said Denise Moser of the Information Resource Center coordinator. "Professors can also correspond with their students through E­
rnan." 

Every Notre Dame student has an E-mail account and needs only to go to the library or Debartolo computer clusters to activate their free account. 
The new Gopher network complements the E-mail sys­tem. It hooks into national and international computer systems to allow students to access a variety of information sources. 
Currently Presidential plat­forms, UPI news releases, weather reports and student addresses at other Universities are available on the network. 
"It provides a wealth of in­formation, and soon more will be available, " added Moser. 
Assistant Provost for Univer­sity Computing Donald Spicer, emphasized that the changes are "evolutionary." These changes represent only the beginning of a reworking of the Notre Dame Computing ser­vices. 
"We are continuing to rewire all of the academic buildings and we are currently trying to devise a way to distribute in­formation through the campus," said Spicer. 
The next major project for University Computing will be networking dorm rooms to the computer clusters. 
"It is the next logical step," he said. "Right now we just lack the funding." 
"Five or six years ago we were not in a very good position (compared to other institutions), but we are now in a very competitive position," said Spicer. "We have one of the top computer to student ratios and our management is first rate." 

Library donates computer to National Library of Poland 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame libraries system has donated its IBM 4381 computer to the Na­tional Library of Poland. 
The eight-ton gift was trans­ported by the University of Chicago and was flown to its Warsaw destination by LOT Polish Airlines, according to Robert Miller, libraries director. 
The Polish National Library, located in a newly-constructed modern facility that houses six million volumes and employs almost 900 people, has been automating its operations over the last 20 years under strict Western embargo regulations for computer hardware and software. 
Miller recently returned from the University of Warsaw where he held an exchange faculty position in its professional library. 
"The Polish National Library currently uses an IBM 4361 system with capabilities that no longer satisfy its growing needs," said Miller. 
"We were in the same posi­tion until we replaced our IBM 4381. It simply became obvious what we should do with our old equipment." 
Once the computer is on-line, the Polish library's databases and catalogs will be accessible to users beyond the library's walls. 

6MILERUN  lOJ@lYJ!EI& J&[f]JN ~1)2  
3MILERUN  OCTOBER 10, 1992 10:00am  
PANCAKE BREAKFAST 1D FOLLOW  

BEGINS AND ENDS AT THE STEPAN CENTER 
T-SHIRTS TO All FINISHERS STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS $5.00 IN ADVANCE, $6.00 RACE DAY ........,, ....... in advance at RECSPORTS lN THE JACC 

page 4 


CALL 
continued from page 1 

one of the CALL representatives. 
Heers spoke of the revolu­tionary spirit of Jesus Christ and said that pro-life activists must go against the grain of culture as Jesus Christ did and stand up and do something to fight abortion. 
"The selfish, self centered society we live in -that is the real root of abortion. The self­less message of Christianity has been abandoned," said Heers. "Notre Dame is in a position to make a huge impact. It has the roots and the teachings." 
Like the solidarity movement in Poland and the Civil Rights movement in the United States, CALL is a non-violent move­ment who has nothing to lose and everything to gain, said Heers. 
An interruption occurred when members of the audience voiced their concern about the contempt for Bill Clinton sup­porters by pro-life activists. 
A debate ensued in which the abortion stances of the presi­dential candidates were dis­cussed instead of the agenda 

continued from page 1 

action and resisting arrest for participating in the protest, ac­cording to Johnson. 
The rescue group succeeded in shutting down the clinic for the day and saving at least one human life before the protest ended at 3 p.m. All 73 protesters were handcuffed and jailed in a one-car garage until 9 p.m., Johnson added. 
Johnson, Keen and Boyce returned to Champaign in June for arraignment. According to Johnson, the charge of mob action was dropped, but they were still formally charged with criminal trespassing and resist­ing arrest. 
Last Tuesday, Keen and Boyce returned to Champaign a third time for their trials. Keen, a senior, pleaded no contest to the stipulated fact that he was involved in the protest in April. 
"In effect, I pleaded guilty and agreed to the charge," Keen said. 
Because Keen took the option of a plea bargain, he was found guilty of the lesser charge, criminal trespassing. Accord­ing to Keen, this charge holds with it a maximum sentence of 30 days m pnson and a $500 fine. He will receive his sen­tence on November 13 and will be on probation until that date. 
"I expect to serve some time in jail," Keen said. "When we did this, we realized jail was a possibility." He added that he was willing to face the conse­quences because, "I know in my heart that what I did was right." 
Sophomore Elizabeth Boyce was found guilty of criminal trespassing and resisting arrest. 
--~ -~--­
• 

which the CALL representatives had prepared. 
The question arose concern­ing the feasibility of holding a pro-life, pro-Clinton stance, which some members of the audience claimed to hold. 
In response, Heers stated, "Abortion is the most unjust and disgusting abuse of human rights, so therefore Bush has to be voted for." 
The meeting continued with the CALL Director of Social Outreach, Stephanie Placek, instructing the audience on methods used to fight abortion. "Picketing at an abortion mill is making a statement," said Placek. 
Sidewalk counseling is talking to the women entering the abortion clinics and relating the truths about abortion as well as the serious affects of post-abor­tion syndrome, said Placek. 
Another type of activism is the "Rescue," said Placek. "A Rescue is placing yourself be­tween the killer and the child by blocking the door of the abortion mill," she said. 
There was recently a Rescue in Champagne, Ill. in which 73 college students were arrested outside an abortion clinic, said Placek. 

e JU ge oun er gm ty o both charges after she pleaded innocent last Tuesday, according to Boyce. 
Boyce does not regret partici­pating in the protest. She ex­plained, "I did what I had to do and they found me guilty. That's fine." She will be sentenced on November 12. 
Like Keen, Boyce faces the possibility of jail time as a result of her conviction. She had never been in jail before the protest last April. 
Junior Claire Johnson must return to Champaign on Octo­ber 16 for her trial. She will then be given the option of plea bargaining or taking the stand. 
Johnson does not want to take the option of plea bargaining. If she pleads not guilty, she will argue the "necessity defense" and try to convince the judge that she felt the protest was truly necessary. "I view it as the greater good save a life," she said. 
Johnson regrets, however, that the case has dragged on for so long. She said it is a non­typical rescue because each protester is being tried sepa­rately. Normally, in such cases all of the protesters are tried as a group immediately after the 
6~ ob ~~(]) ~.$>0 ~ '" ~0 ~b· 

~ b~ (()(]) looking ~"' ~ f
"J 
0v or '? Campus Bands 
Call 233-7747 After 3 p.m. 

CAPP Honor Society Presents 
The Travelers 
Wednesday, October 7, 1992 Room 222 Hesburgh Library 
7-8 p.m. 
Come and see why you are better off Under the Umbrella. 
The Observer Wednesday, October 7, 1992 
on the show had prior camera experience, but those who did not were given a crash course, according to Schulz. 
"We are just really happy we got the first show together, we all shared the responsibilities," said Schulz. 
Schulz said that the project could 
use a few more students who are "interested, committed, and professional." He added that he encourages any students with story ideas for the show to contact him. 
The first show will be re­broadcast Tuesday, Oct. 30. 


Television 
continued from page1 
Schulz also said that he thinks that the South Bend­Mishawaka community will benefit from the program. 
"Notre Dame is a very big part of the community," he said, "but it will be good for them to be able to see it news­wise and entertainment-wise and in ways other than just sports." 
The idea of the show was de­veloped by Schulz after work­ing at Heritage Cable as a vol­unteer sports commentator on a community affairs show. 

He approached Heritage with the idea for the show, and after getting its approval, scouted for students who might be inter­ested in working on the project. 
Heritage Cable has given the students studio and production time every week to produce the show which airs the first Tues­day of every month at 8 p.m. with a rebroadcast of the show on the third Tuesday of the month at the same time. 
Most of the students working water projects bill. 
D'Amato's filibuster was an unconventional one: He wasn't so much seeking to obstruct the bill as to demand that a deleted provision be restored -one designed to provide relief for New York state typewriter-fac­tory workers facing loss of their jobs. 
Aided by a pair of sympa­thetic senators, D'Amato gamely held the floor through the night and beyond noon. He never sat down or even left to use the bathroom, but he did give way briefly to allow the Senate chaplain to conduct the daily prayer. 
w o cannot spea or t em­selves, especially the unborn." On Friday, they will peacefully picket the South Bend abortion clinic, Keen added. 
Elsa Scheidler, a 1992 grad­uate who was also arrested at the April protest, is currently doing a service project in Cameroon, Africa according to Keen. She is not being tried for her involvement. 

Congress 
continued from page 1 
drag on until Saturday or even into next week. 
The uncertainty in the Senate threw into doubt not just the tax bill but a smattering of other bills passed by the House but left in limbo by Senate inaction. Among them was an anti-carjacking bill, a housing bill that would raise the limits on FHA home loans, and a major energy bill. 
Republicans said that even if 
protest. 
"They gave us too many op­tions and confused people," Johnson said. "This made the case more complicated." 
If she is found guilty, Johnson is willing to serve time in jail, because she has already gone to prison seven times for her pro-life activities. She hopes to serve her time over Christmas Democrats manage to dislodge the tax bill, Bush might veto it. 

Registration to be an Extra in the movie "Rudy" to be filmed at Notre Dame this Fall!  
Where: Stepan Center • Notre Dame When: Sat., Oct. lOth • 9 a.m ... 5 p.m. Bring: a Pen, a Color Snapshot, Bring Friends!  
For more info. Call 239--8877  

Lawmakers in both parties were in a rush to return home to campaign for re-election. 
But adjournment, already put off by one day, became elusive when Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, a New York Republican battling for re-election, snarled the Se­nate in a 15-hour filibuster over the tax bill after it cleared the House early Tuesday morning. 
When he finally gave up, Seymour, another vulnerable Republican, enmeshed the Se­nate in delay by invoking rules to demand the reading of the 

rea , 1 necessary. 
Keen also hopes that he will be able to serve his time over break. "I've been in jail before, and it's a humbling experi­ence," he said. "But I try to be upbeat and positive about this." 
The pro-life activities of the Notre Dame Right to Life group are all worthwhile, Keen said. 
"We must stand up for those 



20°/o Off 
Salon Services &Regis Haircare Products 
Present Student ID. No double discounts. 
Regular Price Menu 
$895 $695
Adult Cuts Kids Cuts Shampoo S2 Styling med~ong hair ss· Styling short hair S3' Perm Waves starting at S34 
(Blow Dry Only) (Includes Haircut & Style) 
Conditioners S1 to S5 'with haircut service 
No Appointment Necessary 

MasterCuts 


Wednesday, October 7, 1992 
Collins: Multiculturalism falsely portrayed by media 
By ALEX MONTOYA News Writer 
Multiculturalism is falsely portrayed by the media as a negative ideal demanded by minorities only, Ava Collins said Tuesday. 
Collins, director of the gender studies program, said that both the national media and educa­tion system have failed to demonstrate how multicultural­ism is intended to bring all people together. 
Speaking at a fireside chat as part of the Multicultural Fall Festival, Collins said that the newspaper and television in­dustries are not addressing the need for all people to learn about each other and that edu­cation leaders are labeling multiculturalism as an unnec­essary burden forced by special interest groups. 
"There is a problematic no­tion in this country that we all belong to this grand melting pot," she said, "but in a melting pot a person's voice is lost." 
What is not being addressed is the nation's growing diversity and subsequently the need for all cultures to educate each other, Collins said. 
These ideas, she said, are not being implemented by schools at various levels out of "a fear that the traditional classroom learning atmosphere will be destroyed." 
Some changes have been made to textbooks, Collins noted, but there must be other changes. One idea Collins mentioned, formed by the Black Faculty Caucus at the University of Texas, is to recruit more minority faculty and help increase the diversity of the student body. 
She also mentioned increas­ing recruiting of minority graduate students and encour­aging them to pursue teaching careers. 
Collins cited the media for misrepresenting multicultural­ism and agreed it should not be regarded as just "a minority thing." 
"The media," she said, "has great power to influence and have an impact. Just look at Murphy Brown and Dan Quayle, and most recently, Sinead O'Connor." 



OFFICE Of ~ECH.\ ri<)~.\L SPORTS 

CAMPUS BADMINTON -MEN AND WOMEN UNDERGRADUATES GRADUATE STUDENTS FACULTY AND STAFF 
VOLLEYBALL IHMEN IHWOMEN 
CO-REC BASKETBALL 
ENTRIES BEGIN SEPT 28 
ENTRY DEADLINE • OCTOBER 7 
The Observer page 5 

MSA pledges support for use of force to end violence in Bosnia-Hercegovina 
By JOHN CONNORTON News Writer 
The Muslim Student Asso­ciation (MSA), a small group of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, has begun efforts to increase aware­ness of the . atrocities com­mitted in Bosnia-Hercegov• ina. 
Pledging to support the efforts of Senator Richard Lugar of Indiana, who has calledfor the use offorce tQ.. end the violence in Bosnia­Hercegovina, the MSA has increased its presence Oil the Notre Dame campus to attract attention to the plight .of Bosnian citizens, Muslim and non-Muslim alike. 
Beginning with the multi· cultural fair this week, the MSA plans to stage events to garner support for what jt feels is the best way to remedy the civil war in what U$ed to be Yugoslavia. 
"We feel that the arms embargo should be lifted," said Abid Yousuf,Vice• President of the MSA, addressing the current United Nation's ban on weapons shipments to the troubled region. "What the Muslim Croats need now is something to defend them­selves with." 
Yousuf praised the efforts of Senator Lugar, citing his willingness to go out on a limb to convince Congress and the Senate to take action in Bosnia. 
"Something has to be done now before the House closes" in two weeks, said Yousuf. "The U.S. and the 
U.N. must do something be· yond peace talks. No peace till Bosnia is returned." 



Student speaks before Spanish forum 
Special to the Observer 
Emil Bolongaita, a doctoral student in the government de­partment, spoke last month be· fore the Spanish Forum of the Chief Executive's Organization (CEO) in Madrid, Spain. 
Bolongaita's presentation emphasized the need for CEO to help build corporate com­munities to help sustain and advance movements to com­munity at the national and in· ternationallevel. 
He advised the CEO to help build world community, initiate corporate communities in com· panies by changing corporate culture, implement top-heavy management in inclusive cul­tures with open communication processes, and collaborative management through teams. 
According to Bolongaita, his ideas for community were shaped by his experience in the International Scholars Program of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, which brings young scholar­leaders from different parts of the world to Notre Dame to study. 
Bolongaita was invited and introduced at the meeting by Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president-emeritus and the education director of CEO's Spain Forum. 
Boeing held meeting concerning possible engine-mount problem before 747 crash 
SEATTLE (AP) -Boeing of­ficials met with operators of early model 7 4 7 jets to discuss possible problems with engine mounts two weeks before a cargo version of the plane smashed into a Dutch apart­ment building, the company said today. 
The Sept. 16 meeting was held because of a long standing concern about fatigue cracking in fuse pins, which hold the four engines onto the 747's wings, said Boeing Commercial Airplane Group spokesman Jack Gamble. 
Boeing is redesigning the pins, and on Monday issued a service bulletin asking opera­tors of some 7 4 7 models to in­spect the pins and repair or replace them if necessary. 
Swissair spokesman Hannes Kummer said earlier today that the Swiss carrier received a telex from Boeing last week suggesting checks for cracks in the pins within 90 days. Gamble said the need for the inspec­tions was discussed at the Seat­tle meeting, which was at­tended by Swissair and El Al representatives. 
Dutch officials said the Israeli El Al 7 4 7 -200F freighter that crashed Sunday evening lost the two engines from its right wing shortly after taking off at Amsterdam's airport. They said the was unable to 
HORSEBACK RIDING SUNDAY,OCTOBERll $12.00 per person Register and pay in advance a RecSports in the JACC 
No experience necessary Call RecSports at 239-6100 for more details 
maneuver the plane back for an emergency landing. More than 250 people were feared killed on the ground. 
The crash was similar to a China Airlines accident last De­cember in which a 747-200 freighter dropped two engines from its right wing shortly after taking off from Taipei. Five crew members were killed in that crash. 
Gamble said that while both accidents involved the same type of aircraft, the right-wing engines, and occurred while the jets were climbing after takeoff, there was no way to tell yet whether the fuse pins were a factor. 
j 
-·-
..!::"..:---:-.:: ----· 
--==o::=. 


OF NOTRE DAME 
G FOREIGN STUDY 
in 



LONDON, ENGLAND 
INFORMATION MEETING: Wednesday, October 7, 1992 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 7:00p.m. 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 
~-~~~---------------------------. 
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, October 7, 1992 
ELECTION '92 

ELECTION BRIEFS Perot not catching on 
•NEW YORK -A national poll released Tuesday showed Ross Perot getting the support of only one in 10 voters even after they had a few days to hear about his campaign. The NBC News poll taken Sunday and Monday showed Bill Clinton leading with 46 percent, President Bush at 32 percent, Perot at 10 percent and 12 percent 
uncommitted. Perot announced his candidacy Thursday, then virtually secluded himself except for a television interview. The poll of 820 registered voters has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 4 percentage points. 
Clinton ad irks taxpayers 
•WASHINGTON-Five middle­class taxpayers who appeared in a controversial television ad for Presi­dent Bush urged Democrat Bill Clin­ton's campaign on Tuesday to stop airing a reply ad that also shows their pictures. At the same time, one of the five acknowledged that, far from being just another ordinary taxpayer, he worked in Wisconsin for Republican Gov. Tommy Thompson's campaign and now has a state job under Thomp­son's administration. Controversy continued to swirl over the Bush ad, which showed five middle-class Americans and said that under a 
Clinton presidency, each would pay $1.000 to $2,000 more in taxes. 
Clinton poses with Elvis 
•NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Bill Clinton went to Music Row on Tuesday to have his picture taken at Houndogs. 
a hot dog stand with an Elvis Presley motif. He wasn't too tender to George Bush. "You know, Bush is always comparing me to Elvis in sort of unflattering ways." Clinton, a.k.a. Elvis, complained. 

Perot appears on national TV 
DALLAS (AP) -Ross Perot bought 30 minutes on national TV for his first ad as a presidential candidate Tuesday night, delivering a lecture on the sorry state of the economy spiced by a tongue-lashing of government officials who become lobbyists for other coun­tries. 
Perot said of such officials, "This is like a general switching armies in the middle of the war. They should come to serve and go home, not cash in." 
Most of the ad, which forgoes the Madison Avenue touches of the Bush and Clinton campaigns, was filmed after Perot's announcement last Thurs­day that he was officially joining the race. 
Called "Jobs, Debt and the Mess in Washington," the ad repeated many of the economic and government reform themes Perot has made in dozens of television interviews. Perot spoke from a desk, using a chart and pointer. 
With the election just one month away, Perot is pouring his time and money into television, detailing eco­nomic troubles and his solutions, which include higher taxes, cuts in entitle­ments and government spending. An­other 30-minute ad is scheduled for Friday night, and he also is to begin running 30-and 60-second commer­cials on the major TV networks begin­ning Thursday. 
Campaign officials provided an ex­cerpt of Tuesday night's ad in advance. 
In the excerpt, Perot strongly criti­cized government workers who become 
lobbyists and political campaign 
activists after leaving their federal jobs. 
"That's like having Russian spies in 
the middle of a presidential campaign 
during the Cold War. Because we're in a 
business war now, folks," Perot said. 
"The sickest thing of all, we had a key guy on the (International Trade Com­mission) leave and go to the other side in the middle of a negotiation. He knew the plans, the strategy, the detail," Perot said. "As far as I'm concerned, that's economic treason." 
He gave no names. 

Orson Swindle, Perot's national vol­unteer coordinator, said Tuesday night's ad would be typical for the campaign. 
"We won't have Ken and Barbie im­ages up there as you get with the Democrats or Indiana Fitzwater run­ning around in his hat," Swindle said in a reference to Bill and Hillary Clinton and the safari hat of President Bush's spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater. "You won't see that kind of stuff." 
At least one more 30-minute ad after Friday's is being prepared but is un­scheduled, spokeswoman Sharon Hol­man said. 
Perot paid $380,000 to run the first spot on CBS, before the National League baseball playoff game in most of the country. 
Swindle said Perot's participation in the presidential debates will be the cru­cial part of the Dallas billionaire's cam­paign. He said Perot would make some campaign appearances, too, but none had been scheduled as of Tuesday. 
Perot's charts 
Ross Perot has outlined his reasons for the nation's economic woes in 21 charts. Some examples: 
U.S. business productivity 

Percentage of decade growth 



1960·70 1970-80 1980·90 
Federal debt added during American presidencies 
George Washington to Jimmy Carter ~__,__(192 years) 



Bush, Clinton prepare for series of debates 
WASHINGTON (AP) -President Bush studied at the White House on Tuesday for Sunday's leadoff debate, while Bill Clinton summoned stand-ins for mock go-rounds in Kansas City -including a Washington lawyer to play Bush and an Oklahoma congressman to play Ross Perot. 
With the approach of the nationally televised debate, which the Bush forces hope will shake up the final few weeks of Campaign '92, full-tilt preparation was beginning. 
Clinton planned to hole up in battle­ground Missouri for the latter part of the week, practicing and trying to determine Bush attack avenues in advance of the real show, set for Sunday across the state in St. Louis. 
Bush, meanwhile, charted his own debate tactics Tuesday from the White House, setting aside three hours for a session with chief of staff James Baker III, budget director Richard Darman, and other top policy aides. 
If and when Bush moves on to re­hearsal debates -aides said there could be one Saturday at the White House -Darman would play dual roles, jumping back and forth between portrayals of Clinton and Perot, said a Republican source. 
The budget director, who played Democrat Michael Dukakis in Bush's mock debates in 1988, has been carrying around debate briefing books for weeks. 
BILL FRANK 
NISSAN•SUZUKI•SUBARU 
15% Student Discount with I.D. FREE Shuttle Service to and from Campus 
•Brakes  •Tune up  •Tires  
•Exhaust  •Alignments  •Oil & Filter  
•No Job Too Little or 81g!  
•We accept credit cards  
•We service any make or model  

•We can make arrangements with your parents long distance 51176 U.S. 33 North South Bend 
4.5 miles north of Notre Dame C<lfll)US 
277-5800 NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS SENIOR 









&!:CLUB 
Pre--Pittsburgh Social Gathering 
9--2 
Thursday at the Club The Place To Be For The Class Of '93 
must be 21 
• 

~~~~=-­
1'\0R[ft~ CfnTfR. fOR. rm ~ R T s 
DIRECTED BY MARK PILKINTON 
Wednesday, October 7, 8: I 0 pm Thursday, October 8, 8: I 0 pm Friday, October 9, 8: I 0 pm Saturday, October I0, 8: I 0 pm Sunday, October II, 3: I 0 pm 
Washington Hall Reserved Seats • $7 
Student and Senior Citizen discounts are available Wed., Thurs. and Sun. performances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. Master Card and VISA orders: 239-8128 

Wednesday, Oct. 14,8 p.m., O'Laughlln Auditorium The National Touring Production






lfnonfn OR 

Tickets $14/$12 Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's 
Friday-Sunday, Nov. 13-15 Samt Mary's pre.scnts 
AN EVE\IING OF OPERA AND DANCE 
Tickets $6/$5 
MOREA I! GALLERIES, Brinslcy Tyrrell, sculpture: Lilian Tyrrell, tapestries; Oct. 9-Nlw. 6. Admission free. 
COMIN(; ATTRACTIONS... ACDA Ct·ntral Division Colkgwte llonnrs Festival Choir, Oct. 3 1... The Statesmen, Nov. 6...Thc Ink Spots, Nov. 21. 
f"H~--­
box office. located in O"Laughlin Auditorium. Saint M(ll 't'~ Colleg~Information and charge card orders: 219/284·4626. NOTRE OM.'.E·INDIANA 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, October 7, 1992 page 7 

The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Which campus leaders get special mention? 
man was a fine way to repre­sent the Notre Dame commu­nity. No doubt, he got a hearty laugh as you hurled marshmal­lows at him. 
Children, some people work for a living and making his job nearly impossible did nothing to further the Catholic mission of this University. 
Of course, the parents in the stands swelled with pride as you turned the "House that Knute Rockne Built" into a preschoolers play pen. 
games for the benefit of our devoted pigskin players, not for a laugh or a lark. 
Next time, kiddies, keep the cups in your hands or under the stands. Let's work together to keep these selfish miscreants from turning our beloved stadium into a frolicking fun house. 
J.T. Burke Off-campus 
Steve Murphy Alumni Hall 

DOONESBURY 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to your publication's security pol­icy. In Julie Barrett's article, "Crime policy applies to all," she outlined the reasoning be­hind publishing a student's name if he or she is arrested. 
Barrett stated that it is of in­terest to the student body when students are arrested, and The Observer intends "to provide the most thorough coverage of all security issues on campus and in the community." 
Yet I feel that you have failed in providing the "thorough coverage" that you promise. While I disagree with the prac­tice of printing students' titles in addition to their names, I can understand, to some extent, the reasoning involved. 
I did not enter The Commons last weekend to conduct Scholastic business, but my po­sition at the magazine does not 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
SHe'SHOTFa< M8, 700! SH8 S4>S 511& lt/IWTE[) 
"PUU 01/EiR.." A1f3FROM "l"H&STAI?TI PIHICH 
\
fl?tJM MYOfENING tutl51 \ UN&.' 
'We find comfort among those who agree with us-growth among those who don't.' 
Frank A. Clark 
Feed me some hungry: 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q. ND; IN 46556 
AB=a/JlEI.Y 
a/8U, I 8ET7l:R. I'M5t&ING 68TRai-IN'I SOMWN&.' 
81GtJAT8 ANI?SH£5 ?CWICHT! FIN&!' 
\ 
end as I step out of the campus boundaries. I accepted my po­sition at Scholastic; therefore, I accepted the responsibility it entails. 
The security policy is sup­posed to ensure that students are being treated fairly, yet I feel The Observer was some­what selective and irresponsible in its coverage of the S.U.D.S. raids at The Commons and, earlier this year, at Campus View and Turtle Creek. 
The Observer claims that it will include the titles of varsity athletes, elected student gov­ernment officials and publica­tions editors, yet only a few students were pinpointed as holding titles while several more were deleted. 
Why are some titles included while others were ignored? Do your reporters simply pinpoint those students whose positions are blatantly obvious? 
For example, there is a list of the Hall President's Council members in the student direc­tory; none of the HPC members that have been cited over the past month have had their titles listed. I believe that they fit un­der the category of "elected student government official." Why were these titles ex­empted? 
If your publication boasts of providing "thorough" coverage of such incidents, don't you think you should follow through and not discriminate against certain students? 
I advise that if you plan to maintain this policy, your re­porters should take the time top provide what you promise, not 
simply students.  highlight  certain  
Margaret Kenny Managing Editor Scholastic Oct. 2, 1992  



Viewpoint
page 8 Wednesday, October 7, 1992 

Tolerance is often a difficult virtue to practice 

of the current political cam­
On any given day, he dumps favorite "unusual person" at
He haunted the steps of the paigning. I concluded that
homebuyer's guides, noncredit mass.
cathedral where President Gary J. Caruso maybe I was not as tolerant as I 
course booklets, newspapers "The Admiral" also attended
Kennedy's funeral mass was Capitol Comments originally thought. 
and magazines in that mailbox. mass that evening. He too is
celebrated. I felt uncomfortable Maybe my condemnation of
I am certain that he is an probably a St. Elizabeth's alum. 
around him. 
the Bush/Quayle campaign's use
alumnus of St. Elizabeth's He has a full beard, neatly
Ignoring the beggar bothered of polarization should also be
Hospital. He is a person I avoid trimmed, but rather long hair. 
me, but I in fact did ignore him. applied to myself. At the
at all costs. 
Recovering from my en­conclusion of mass I was still
When I finally entered the I call him "Admiral" because
counter with him, I climbed the confused.
cathedral, I wondered if the he once wore a captain's hat in
steps only to stand face to face 
world outside the Washington church while wearing his rain­
with another man. He was col­It has been two weeks since
Beltway was like the characters coat over his shoulders. As the
lege-aged, stood in the church that evening at the cathedral. I
who attended mass here. priest delivered the homily,
doorway watching those who have agonized over my ability
I also thought of the snap "The Admiral" saluted him
entered, and wore a T-shirt to be tolerant. I think I have
judgments I made based on from one of the elevated
with the inscription, "Hate Is forced myself to be more toler­
appearances within a fifteen chapels at the side of the cathe­
Not A Family Value." fellow lector, Celeste, ant, or at least am able to rec­
feet area from the bottom to the dral. Only those of us near the
He obviously was making a "Duchess." he bows to her ognize whenever I am intoler­
top of the stairs. alter could see him.
protest statement against the when she passes. He also mo­ant.
Did my perceptions of the At the mass where I wanted
Bush/Quayle family values def­tions his hands to conduct the Most who will vote in this
Bush/Quayle campaign of intol­to contemplate my tolerance, or
initions circulating in this year's music from his seat whenever year's presidential election cer­
erance actually apply to my be­lack of it, he arrived late, as
campaign. the spirit moves him. He never tainly will not take such time
havior? I thought that I was the usual. He walked to the chapel
misses a Sunday evening mass, for self-examination. Maybe if
model of tolerance. Maybe I with his coat on his shoulders
I agreed with him, so he did and he is certainly one of our they do, they will vote differ­
needed to reflect on that a like a cape. The priest was
not offend me as much as my unique parishioners. I think of ently. Even if they do not
while. saying, " ... and we have boot
"Notre Dame" friend. him as a bit weird but harm­change their minds, like me,
Mass that night would be lickers and yes men in the
Just then, the man I call "The less. they can be just a little better in
perfect setting in which to con­world today who do not know
Scribbler" excited the cathe­their hearts. 
template my questions. But as Jesus because they do not be­
dral. He was yelling something Another parishioner tries to After all, regardless of who 
anyone who has ever served at lieve in Jesus, nor do they see a
about never asking anybody for kiss my ring whenever I shake wins the election, any experi­
a downtown location can tell place for Jesus in the world." 
anything. "I pay my own way," her hand. She is a Central ence in church has a redeeming
you, mass brings its own share "The Admiral" flung his
he shouted. "Nobody ever pays American immigrant who value.
of weird and unusual events. As hands above his head as though
for my damn... " The litany is stands all of four feet, six inches 
it turned out, mass that night to ask, "What can we do?" He 
not even worth repeating. and cannot speak a word of Gary J. Caruso is a graduate
was no exception. then dropped them to his sides,
I call him "The Scribbler" be­English. of the University ofNotre Dame
St. Matthew's Cathedral, with and left the church. I could not 
cause he takes our bulletins, To me, she looks like she and now works in Washington,
all its splendor, ministers to the help but chuckle. 
pretends to write on them, and could be related to the Star D. C. as a desktop publishing
influential as well as the home­On other occasions, these
then dumps them by the hun­Wars fictional character, Yoda. specialist for the U.S. House of
less. When I serve as a lector at characters have interrupted the
dreds in the mailbox on the Yet her physical appearance Representatives. His article ap­
5:30, I see the congregation mass. The priest once asked 
corner of Connecticut and only accentuates the cuteness of pears every other Wednesday. 
from a different perspective. rhetorically, "Where can we
Rhode Island Avenues. her spirit and faith. She attends 
One volunteer usher calls my find God today?" A homeless
mass every day, and is my 
Important changes in Travel Grant Committee rules 
Kurt Mills 
On the Other Hand 
As many of you know, the travel grant fund of the Gradu­ate Student Union has been one of the most popular and widely used GSU services. 
This fund is used to partially defray the costs of presenting a scholarly paper at a conference, and has been of great help to many graduate students over the years. 
What many of you probably do not know is that the guide­lines used by the Travel Grant Committee have been changed. Below, I will talk about some of these changes, as well as the way in which these changes were made. 
In the past, students were able to submit a funding form either before or after the actual conference. This enabled stu­dents, first, to know how much they were going to get before­hand, and second, to be able to pay for plane tickets or other up front expenses. 
This is especially important for students without credit cards, and even those with credit cards who would have to pay their bills before the con­ference, since most graduate students tend to live paycheck by paycheck. 
In addition, knowing before­hand how much they will re­ceive might also make the dif­ference in whether or not stu­dents decide they can actually afford to attend the conference. 
The committee has decided to restrict the process so that stu­dents can only submit for re­imbursement with full receipts after the conference. 
Apparently, this decision was made because of supposed fraud and wastefulness in the process. The claim is made that graduate students submitted forms before the fact that vastly overestimated the cost of their trip, and then did not submit receipts detailing their expendi­tures, as required. 
In addition, supposedly the Travel Grant Committee did not follow up on those who did not submit receipts. 
I have very grave doubts that if graduate students did try to rip off the GSU it amounted to that much or was very widespread. 
According to the past Travel Grant Chair, Mel Hall, who had been involved with the commit­tee for several years, he and the committee followed up on all submissions. 
Even if this were a problem, it would seem reasonable that the Travel Grant Committee should, rather than making wholesale changes, enforce the rules more strictly and follow up more closely, as the new chair seems interested in doing. 
Punishing all graduate stu­dents because of a few bad ap­ples does not make sense, and insults the vast majority of graduate students who benefit fairly from the Fund. 
The previous Chair notes that the only outcome of these changes will be to make the job of the Travel Grant Chair easier, and make it harder for students to receive support. 
We are also given no idea what percentage of our ex­Il.t)nses we can expect to be re­imbursed. 
While it will vary from fund­ing period to funding period, depending upon the number of applicants, we should still ex­pect some sort of ballpark es­timate. 
The form states the students should be able to expect be­tween 30 percent and 50 per­cent reimbursement, which is what was given in past years. The minutes of the last Gradu­ate Student Council meeting indicate 15 percent, and some people have been told 20 per­cent. 
Since the fund has increased substantially since last year, I find it hard to believe that the rate would go down. In any event, we deserve a better es­timate. 
Regarding the way in which these new regulations were enacted, it is interesting to note that this administration cam­paigned against what it per­ceived as nondemocratic prac­tices within the GSU and promised to leave almost every decision up to the full Council. Yet, these decisions were made without any real input by the Council. 
This is in contrast to past years, when the Travel Grant Chair came to the first Council meeting of the year and pre­sented all of the committee rules and guidelines, and asked for approval of the allocated amounts for each funding pe­riod for the upcoming year. 
In addition, it should be noted that until this year, the position of Travel Grant Chair has been filled from those who have worked on the committee. This has provided continuity and expertise, and has also served as a reward for individuals who have volunteered on the com­mittee. 
The new policy which com­bines the position of vice presi­dent and Travel Grant Chair make such continuity very diffi­cult. 
Finally, the timing of the fall deadline was changed from November 15 to September 15; unfortunately few people knew this. 
It was announced in the Graduate Student Newsletter, which was dated September 16, the day after the deadline, and the back of the application form notes that the revised form was approved on September 1 7, two days after the deadline. 
After pressure from various quarters, the deadline for this fall has been extended to Octo­ber 15, although this has not been made widely known ei­ther. 
If you are concerned about this issue, you can talk with your departmental representa­tives, or attend the next Grad­uate Student Council Meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. 
Kurt Mills is a graduate stu­dent in the Department of Gov­ernment and International Studies. His column normally appears every other Monday. 
------~ ------------­


Accent 
October 7, 1992 Page 9 
Jahnelle Harrigan 
Things, life, whatnot 

On a higher level of smut 
I 
t's kind of scary. 
Stay-at-home moms schedule 
carpools around them. Corporate 
executives re-arrange meetings 
because of them. College students skip 
classes to see them. 
They're daytime television talk shows and I have to admit I'm a victim of their sensationalistic intrigue, although I'm not sure why. 
I'm not talking about sleazy tabloid shows like "A Current Affair." I prefer to see myself as being on a higher level of smut, led by my close friends Oprah and Sally Jessy. 
When Phil Donahue perfected his talent of running like a lunatic up and down stairs through his audience with an outstretched microphone for anyone who would take it, the TV talk show took on a whole new meaning. 
But why are we so enthralled with shows starring Geraldo, Maury, Faith, Jenny and Joan? Who are they, and why are we under the impression that they can single-handedly solve the problems of screwed-up Americans in a mere hour of television? 
Or an even better question: Where do shows find people with such stupid, smutty, idiotic lives who are willing to expose themselves on national television? 
There are endless topics just waiting to be covered by the likes of Phil Donahue and Faith Daniels. But week after week, certain subjects seem to be favored. 
Here's just a sampling: 
•In-family marriages are always a hot topic. 
In the last year, Oprah Winfrey devoted an hour to "When your husband marries your mother," Geraldo Rivera counseled a young woman who married her father and Sally Jessy Raphael questioned a teenage girl who wooed her stepfather and proceeded to have his baby. 
Weird. 
•Sexual oddities are classic. 
Women explaining how they gave birth without knowing they were pregnant, cross­dressers telling all, and people undergoing sex changes always boost ratings. 
Even this week, Jenny Jones pondered the lives of "Lipstick lesbians and macho gay men." Weirder. 
•Sexual promiscuity is another favorite. 
Chippendale dancers and Playboy centerfolds strip at least once a week on any given network. The Barbi Twins of poster pin-up fame have graced the tube on numerous occasions, and women with size "M" bra cups have explained the plight of their uh... big situation. 
A recent episode of "Sally Jessy Raphael" featured the topic "Babedom: boobs, boys and high heels." Husbands enjoyed watching their "plain Jane" wives mudwrestle with "sleazy babes" to determine the REAL women in the group. 
Even weirder. 
When all else fails, TV talk shows can always rely on Geraldo's favorite approach: take a topic you've covered before (like "Psycho cat killers") and add a new twist. Now it becomes "Psycho cat killers and the women who love them." A entirely new and different topic-how easy was that? 
The TV smut level is rising ... tune in next week for "Transsexual cops who support Ross Perot and the women who love them." Yes, it definitely is kind of scary. 
Jahnelle Harrigan is Accent editor ofThe Observer. Her columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 
by Scott Mendenhall The Department of Communication and Theater is bringing the play 'Ah, Wilderness' to Notre Dame from October 7 through October 11. 
Atheatrical look at •tamily values• 
Eugene O'Neill's 'Ah, Wilderness' explores the dynamics of family relationships 
By JENNIFER GUERIN Assistant Accent Editor 
"L ife! Life is a joke and everything works out wrong in the end." 
It is not the cry of frustrated college students in this week before mid-terms, but of a con­fused young boy in 1906. The character is Richard Miller, teenage philosopher and aspiring student of love poetry in Eugene O'Neill's "Ah, Wilderness." 
The play traces the activities of the family of Nat Miller, a newspaper editor in a small Connecticut town in 1906. Miller's household consists of a concerned wife struggling to keep her family happy; an uncle whose relationship with Lily, the woman he loves, is tainted by an inability to deal with his drinking problem; and four children, the most troublesome of whom is Richard. 
As he works through the re­bellious stage of his youth, this young man convinces himself, with all the fleeting conviction of a love-struck adolescent, that cruelty and passion are the true driving forces in the world. In response, he rebels with all of his might (which proves not to be much) against authority figures in his life. 
Studying the works of poets like Shaw, Carlysle, and Wilde, Richard is moved by their romantic verse to court the young and innocent Muriel, whose father does not hesitate to express his dissatisfaction. Debates about Richard's rebellious antics en­sue, and in uncovering their significance, the Millers find that the passions of youth, while humorous and fleeting, may also be meaningful. 
Packed into this portrayal of 48 hours of time are lengthy dialogues, masked as comic conversations and irate exchanges between family members. Out of these passionate discourses, however, emerges the picture of a genuinely loving family with honest flaws and attributes. 
"Ah, Wilderness!" is steeped in familiar O'Neill themes like family disagreements and the destructiveness of alcoholism. As O'Neill's only comedy, however, its final message is hopeful and refreshing, because the family displays its ability to survive. 
O'Neill's play reveals the honest 
'This is a time when people are concerned with family values. This is a very rich play because the family displays negatives as well as positives.' 
--Mark C. Pilkinton 
frustration but enduring sympathy of a mother for her children, the irrationality inherent in adolescent love, and, more seriously, the pain of relationships to which lovers cling de­spite a sobering recognition that the partnership is doomed. 
According to Mark C. Pilkinton, professor in the Department of Communication and Theatre and director of the play, "Ah, Wilderness!" 
was chosen not only because O'Neill is considered "the greatest American playwright," but also because the play presents themes that are timeless. 
The notion of family values ties O'Neill's play to life in this election year with uncanny appropriateness. "This is a time when people are concerned with family values," Pilkinton said. "This is a very rich play, because the family displays negatives as well as positives." 
The dynamics among cast members in the Department of Communication and Theatre's performance will fascinate audiences, bringing the turn-of-the-century household to life in a way that is both humorous and realistic. 
Mark White, who portrays the rebellious son, creates a caricature in Richard Miller that is both comically youthful and ardently committed to larger ideas of truth and love. Joe Wilson and Katherine Blakey, as Nat Miller and his wife Essie, have mastered the dynamics of a couple who, despite their frustrations and pet peeves, cannot help but remain in love and laugh at the antics of their children. 
The performances of Michael Scarsella and Jeannie Goodnow as Essie's alcoholic brother and Nat's sister, Lily, lend an aspect of seriousness to an otherwise refreshing look at family life. 
"Ah, Wilderness!" will run at Washington Hall from Wednesday, October 7 to Saturday, October 10, at 8:10p.m. and Sunday, October 11, at 
3:10 p.m. Tickets for all shows are available at the LaFortune Informa­tion Desk, or at the time of per­formance. 
page 10 The Observer Wednesday, October 7,1992 
,-­
, Lindros helps Flyers tie Penguins in NHL debut; Devils beat Islanders
I I PITTSBURGH (AP) -Eric burgh's Jaromir Jagr and rifling Penguins, who were frustrated on the power play after Bill Capitals 6, Maple Leafs 5 Lindros scored a goal in his it past Tom Barrasso 31 by a 42-save effort from goal­Berg's shorthanded goal gave 
TORONTO -Kevin Hatcher's ,~ NHL debut Tuesday night, help­seconds into the third period. tender Dominic Roussel. the Islanders the lead. The Dev­
goal with 4:24 remaining gaveing the Philadelphia Flyers rally That made it 3-2, and Doug ils made Brooks sweat in his the Washington Capitals a vic­
for a 3-3 tie with the Pittsburgh Evans tied the game at 1:19. Devils 4, Islanders 3 opener after building a 4-1 lead tory over Toronto, spoiling PatPenguins as the NHL opened its 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. late in the second period on Burns' debut as the Maple76th season. Mario Lemieux paid the first 
Scott Stevens and Bobby Holik goals by Alexander Semak and Leafs' coach. 
on his new 6-year,
dividend scored 1:19 apart as New Jer­Zdeno Ciger. 
Lindros, regarded by many as $42-million contract, scoring Derek King scored with 3. 3 
sey got all its goals in the sec­Hatcher's goal came on a slapthe game's next superstar, had the first goal of the NHL just 46 ond period and held ofl'the New seconds left in the second pe­shot from the right circle. Theonly two shots on goal. But he seconds into the game. Kevin York Islanders in Herb Brooks' riod and Marty Mcinnis made it puck struck goalie Grant Fuhr's
scored on the second one, in­Stevens and Rick Tocchet added a one-goal game at 1:45 of the 
debut as Devils' coach. leg pad and slowly rolled over
tercepting a pass by Pitts-power-play goals for the 
Stevens and Holik connected third. the goal line. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from t2 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 


Classifieds 
STUDENTS or ORGANIZATIONS. For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S. COMMUNITY SERVICE HOURS ? Promote our Florida Spring Break Rita Delivery on Campus HAVE BYU ST. TICKET TO SELL 
NOTICES packages. Earn MONEY and FREE 234-6524 2 PITT GA's for sale JAY X1528 Volunteer for RECYCLIN' IRISH trips. Organize SMALL or LARGE John 273-8437 Collection Crews groups. Call Campus marketing. Old Gibson Les Paul Custom California ALUM desperate for PennATTENTION: 
800-423-5264 electric guitar, 1969, black, $1000. State GAs Top$. Pis lv mess. (( HELP THE ENVIRONMENT,For more information and 
277-9882 (415)597-2319 HELP YOURSELF! 
assistance regarding the 
I would love to ride home with you ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY 
investigation of financing, business 
to ST. LOUIS for Oct. Break. 82 Pontiac for sale, 84000 miles, HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE Need 15 BYU GA's! EASY! FUN!
opportunities and work-at-home 
Bill x2187 clean, runs well, am/fm stereo. AT 618-439-3338. 289-7875
opportunities, THE OBSERVER 
Asking $600, call 239-5683. CALL Becky at #4836 for info. 
urges its readers to contact the 
NEED TO GET TO HOUSTON, Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call
Better Business Bureau of 
TEXAS, or anywhere along the way CHEAP TICKET r.t S.B to Norfolk 1-800-922-BEAR. PERSONAL COMMUNITY SERVICE HOURS ? 
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., 
over October Break? We need a Va. for fall break: $175/b.o x1983Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­rider/driver to help drive rental car.
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277-Hey Niff 
Must be at least 21 yrs old to drive TWO TICKETS TO NEWARK DOME-POVERTY9121 or 800-439-5313. 
rental car. Costs will be relatively BETWEEN NOV. 22-NOV. 27. $150 OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 
inexpensive. EACH. 288-9658. I NEED 1 BC GA, WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
Please call Jill, Carrie, or Allison at DAVE, x4506 MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR 
x4758 ASAP if interested!!!! ARTS AND LETTERS BUSINESS 
TYPING FREE HAIRCUTS. CALL 
TICKETS 
SOCIETY!!
287-4082 COSIMO'S 277-1875. 
HELP WE WILL MEET WEDNESDAY, Need ride to PHILLY area for Oct. OCTOBER 7 AT 6:00 IN THE
LILILI Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. 
Break i need 2 penn state GA's DOOLEY ROOM, 1ST FLOOR 
LONG ISLAND BUS CALL JOE OR JAY X1760 family can provide financial security,
Please call Tom x1232 call lisa X 4845 leave a message LAFORTUNE TO DISCUSS 
Sign up this week, only $115 for excellent education and wonderful UPCOMING EVENTS AND round trip! Leaving Fri. evening, I NEED ND FOOTBALL future for your baby. Please let us 
EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR SPEAKERS.
10/16 and will be back Fri. night, TICKETS.272-6306 help you in this difficult time. 
circulars!. ..Begin NOW!. .. FREE GOOD PENN ST GA"s 2773097 
10/23. LIMITED seating. Check Confidential and legal. Medical 
packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box 
your mail for flyers. Anthony x1867 expenses paid. Collect anytime. 
4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. Will pay top dollar for 2 or 3 football 
Please help!!! I'm in DESPERATE (818) 246-1763 
tickets for any of the following home The Observer sincerely PC-DOS Club Meeting need of Penn State GA's ..... 
Spring Break '93 games, Oct. 24, Nov. 7, Nov. 14. apologizes for preventing Topic: Toolbook 
Panama City Beach, Florida Call collect-ask for Joe Murphy. 8 "Double Ditka Tuesday." 
Build your own apps. for Windows! Call Ann 284-5241 
Sales Representative needed to A.M. to 4:30P.M. 614-382-1104, So, keep your eyes peeled for 
SOFTWARE RAFFLE: Attractive and physically well­
work with #1 Spring Break Team 7:30P.M. to 11 PM Ditka's "Three for Thursday!" 
FAR SIDE CALENDAR PROGRAM endowed Notre Dame student with 
TRAVEL ASSOCIATES AND TOUR 614-389-4303 weekdays. By the way, Ditka smokes cigars. 
Thurs. Oct. 8 TRADE: 2 BYU GA'S FOR 2 BC good personality needs a date for 
EXCEL Sell the BEST properties Weekends 9 A.M. to 9P.M. 614-389-Johnson smokes Aikman's pole. 
8:00 pm Computer-Math Build. GA'S (715-359-0222) Oct. 10 SYR. 
on the beach 4303.
Room G015 SUMMIT CONDOMINIUMS 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I will provide transportation, 
MIRACLE BEACH RESORT NEED BC TICKETS IN BIG WAY! 
Typing 237-1949 PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston beverages, and hours of fun 
HOLIDAY INN DEREK SCHNACK X1374 STANFORD & KEENAN 
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing College GAs or student tix. Call Jill whoever answers this ad. 
PIER 99 BASEBALL:
@ x4758 or x4721. 
Earn top commission and free trips @@@@@@@@@@@@@@ Thanks very much for not showing
$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ This is not a joke. I really need a 
For more information call: Julie up to play us, you pussies!
date. 
1-800-558-3002 HAVE DILLON
COMPETE Need Penn St. Tix 
HAVE
WITH THE BEST Tony x 1786 You c<~n call me AI. ..
I BUY BYUs X2319 I HAVE at 283-2703. 
Seniors -Graduate School 
5TH ANNUAL IN DIRE NEED OF 2 GA'S FOR 
I AM A 21 YR. OLD COLLEGE A LOT Preparation. Nuts and Bolts
AT&T INVESTMENT BYU... 
STUDENT EMPLOYED BY Workshop. Thursday, October 8 
CHALLENGE CALL KPO AT x1943 
STUDENT PAINTERS. I'VE BEEN P I T T GAs P I T T GAs 4:00 p.m. Notre Dame Room, 
LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes 
PROMOTED TO EXEC. POSITION LaFortune Student Center. 
TAKE YOUR FICTIONAL $500,000 IN DIRE NEED OF 2 GA'S FOR every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00am
AND NEED MANAGERS FOR Will sell CHEAP cause my
BROKERAGE ACCOUNT AND BYU ... Eastern Time. Train and jump the 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. friends cannot go on the
MAKE MILLIONS= CALL KPO AT x1943 same day. Modern equipment ant
ELKHART, MICH. CITY, LAPORTE, BEST ROADTRIP EVER!!!! KAREN HAYES IS 19! 
training programs. LicensedNILES, THREE 
JUST LIKE WALL STREET instructors. FFI call Skydive 
RIVERS/SCHOOLCRAFT. SALES Call me Philip 287-9118 Karen, Karen, what can we say?
IN DIRE NEED OF 2 GA'S FOR Hastings (616) 948-2665. 
EXP. PREFERRED, BUT NOT This ad was to be in here yesterday. 
REGISTRATION DEADLINE: BYU ... 
NESS. MUST HAVE GREAT ADD. @@@@@@@@@@@@@@
OCTOBER 30, 1992 CALL KPO AT x1943 
AND WORK HARD. AVG. The Observer screwed up, HURRY! DON'T DELAY EARNINGS 8,000. CALL 1-800-HELP! HELP! HELP! They are such pitas. 
*"'**"'** Campus Musicians ........ 543-3793 ASK FOR TOM SMITH. NEED 2-3 BC GA'S. We were so mad,
1-800-545-1975 EXT. 12 NEED 4 PENN ST. GA'S There will be an informational
MARY 284-5114 We told them to eat ass!
NICK X4284 rneeting for all those interested in Need ride to S. Jersey/PhiIa. area
$$$$$$$$$$$ performing on a campus CD Wed. 
for Oct. break. Will pay$$! Call In need of two BC GAs. I have $$. Look under your pillow, 
NEED PENN STATE TIX-call Sam Oct. 7 at 9:00 in the SUB office in 
Maureen @ 2862 Please call me at x3891. There may be a lizard,
x4842 LaFortune. Fo Mo InFo call Ryan at Because you are suchx1249 or 239-7757.

ILOST & FOUND I 
COLUMBIA MISSOURI OR BUST $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ an orgo wizard! FOR OCT. BREAK I NEED A RIDE "N.D. Mom" lost gold bracelet on TO COLUMBIA OR ST. LOUIS­YOU HAVE WHAT But Karen, don't worry or fret,
NEED 4 BYU GA's 
Sunday Oct. 4th, Stephan Field. AIRPORT CALL CHRIS 273-8355 WANT Kate won't let Mol & Jen get you a
Call Dan at 233-4140 Let's go camping! 
South Dining Hall. Flanner Hall pet!
Leave message. What-ev-er 
area. Great Sentimental value. AND I WILL PAY FOR Reward. Please contact Fr. Bill. FOR RENT IT Someday soon when orgo & bio Flanner Hall Rector 239-8104. aren't making you pout,
I NEED 2 BYU TICKETS 
Thank you! Y E S, Y 0 U K N 0 W W H AT Your wonderful roomies, 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY student or GA's HEY EVERYONE 
I'M TALKING ABOUT Want to take you out! 
219-291-7153 Call Dave X3573 HEY EVERYONE 
LOST: LOST ON STEPHEN FIELDS AFTER FOOTBALL NEED YOUR GAs Just take a day off, 
2 room efficiency , utilities paid MARY B. GOOD 
PRACTICE...SMALL AND YOU NEED You don't need to clean.
$7 a day, 288-0955 Need One Ticket For Boston sevices FLANNER 
CAMOFLAGE LEATHER WALLET MY MONEY All that we ask,
Collegell! Call273-2967111 
WITH 1.0., LICENSE, ECT. Is that you won't make a scene!.
Faculty or Graduate Student to Maybe your floor will be next? I!! 
PLEASE RETURN!! KATH ANNE C A L L M E A N Y T I M E Ill! 
share large home ND/UPM area 
X4011 K Y L I E 234-9433 Karen, Karen, what more can we
Deposit-Lease-References In desperate need of 2 tickets for a P.S. Mary, paybacks are HELL. 
say?
277-4156 25th wedding anniversary present Watch out who you screw! 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Jen, Mol & Kate love you more eachfor ND & Penn St. Thank you. 
WANTED day!
2 BR house, basement, garage, 1-717-462-9481. Please ask for !!!!!!?1!1111?!!!!!1!1?!!!!!!!?!!1!1!?!!!!!!?!!!!!
WANTED 3 GA's NO VS BYU stove, refrigerator.@ 1115 Vassar, Phil. 
10/24 CALL COLLECT 215-355-Happy 8-day! 
ALASKA SUMMER NW near campus. $300/mo + 
7131 RON 406 Rules! 
EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn Utilities. Yr lease & deposit. Grad PITT!! PITT!! Need 4 Camping? When-E-ver! $5000+/month. Free transportation! students (20K) preferred. 272-1265 Call Pete (1-800·322-0228) Ninomamartch? What-E-ver!
PITT TICKETS!!! 
Room & Board! Over 8000 openings. No experience Will trade 4 BYU tix for 2 BC tix and THE COUNTDOWN TO CAMPING 
FOR SALE Cannot Go to BYU 
necessary. Male or Female. For FOR SALE 2 Penn St tix. Call (708)665-1827. HAS OFFICIALLY BEGUN. ARE Cannot Go to BYUemployment program call Student WE PSYCHED, KIDS, OR ARE WE 
CALL D. J. or SCOTT@ 1246
Employment Services at 1-206-545-In Need of PSYCHED? 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED Therefore I must get rid my4155 ext. A5584. 
89 MERCEDES ......... $200 I have 2 BYU, 50 yd line GA's!l student tickets for this game. 86 vw..........,................ $50 I want to trade these for any Please help me out.
MARGE
87 MERCEDES .......... $100 2 Penn St. GA's. Joe x1395 
BC 
65 MUSTANG ............. $ 50 
Earn Free Spring Break Trips & tickets Physician and Attorney wish to 
Choose fron'i thousands starting $$NEED 1 Penn. St. ticket call Eric Mike 283-1161 
$2500 Selling Spring Break provide loving home for your child 
$25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour at x4284 will pay good money$$ 
Packages To Bahamas, Mexico, filled with hugs, kisses, laughter. 
Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright Thank You Thank You
Jamaica, Florida! Best Trips & (as many as humanly possible) Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy 
#IN11KJC. TICKETS NEEDED-10 plus BYU 
Prices! 1-800-678-6386. call Aileen X4292 Collect (708) 655-3124. 
GA's-Dan #1852 $$4U 


--------------------------------------, 
page 11
The Observer 
---------~­
~-·~-·~-lllj-i"";:-,,-";i'"':l; A
e 
A -:-s;--r--;i it''if''::·i l W -e 0
0 • w e ._l_,o -~~ •,1-1--oo o
N-0 ON­
-NHL STANDINGS 

TRANSACTIONS 
All Times EDT 
WALES CONFERENCE 
PLAYOFFS BASEBALL HOCKEYPatrick Division 
Pts GF GA Home Away Div American League American League National Hockey League
W L T 
Wednesday, Oct. 7 SEATTLE MARINERS-Placed Juan MONTREAL CANADIENS-Traded
2 4 3 1-0-0 0-0-0 1-0-0New Jersey 1 0 0 0-0-0 1-0-0 0-0-0 Oakland (Stewart 12-1 0) at Toronto Agosto, pitcher, and John Moses, outfielder, Patrick Lebeau, left wing, to the CalgaryWashington 1 0 0 2 6 5 
0-0-1 (Morris 21-6), 8:26 p.m. on waivers for the purpose of giving them
1 3 3 0-0-0 0-0-1 Flames for future considerations. 
Philadelphia 0 0 1 
Thursday, Oct. 8 their unconditional releases. Named Marc
0-0-1 0-0-0 0-0-1 NEW JERSEY DEVILS-Assigned Claude 
Pittsburgh 0 0 1 1 3 3 Oakland (Moore 17-12) at Toronto (Cone Hill manager; Jell Andrews pitching coach;
0 0 0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 Vilgrain, forward, and Brent Severyn, de­NY Rangers 0 0 0 
4-3), 8:37p.m. Ivan DeJesus coach; and Paul Downing
0 3 4 0-0-0 0-1-0 0-1-0 fenseman, to Utica of the American HockeyNY Islanders 0 1 0 
Saturday, Oct. 10 trainer of Jacksonville of the Southern League.
Adams Division 
Toronto (Key 13-13 or Guzman 16-5) at League.
1-0-0 1-0-0 NEW YORK RANGERS-Sent Per Djoos
Montreal 1 0 0 2 5 1 0-0-0 
Oakland (Darling 15-10), 3 p.m. National League
0 0 0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 and Sergei Zubov, defensemen, to Bing­Boston 0 0 0 
0-0-0 0-0-0 Sunday, Oct. 11 CHICAGO CUBS-Placed Kal Daniels, hamton of the American Hockey League. 
0 0 0 0-0-0 0 0 0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 PITTSBURGH PENGUINS-AnnouncedBuffalo 0 0 0 Toronto at Oakland, 4:10p.m. outfielder, on waivers for the purpose ofOnawa 0 0 0 
Monday, Oct. 12 giving him his unconditional release. 
0-0-0 0-0-0 Scotty Bowman, coach, will return for the
Quebec 0 0 0 0 0 0 0-0-0 Toronto at Oakland, 3:07 p.m., if CINCINNATI REDS-Announced that Lou 1992-g3 season.
0 5 0-1-0 0-0-0 0-1-0Hartford 0 1 0 
necessary Piniella, manager, has rejected a contract SAN JOSE SHARKS-Sent DavidCAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Wednesday, Oct. 14 extension. 
Williams, defenseman, to Kansas City of the Norris Division 
Oakland at Toronto, 3:07p.m. or 8:26p.m., HOUSTON ASTROS-Piaced Denny if necessary Walling, second baseman, on waivers for
W L T Pts GF GA Home Away Div International Hockey League. 
1-0-0 0-0-0 1-0-0 TORONTO MAPLE LEAFS-AssignedThursday, Oct. 15 the purpose of giving him his unconditional
St. Louis 1 0 0 2 6 4 
0 0 0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 Mike Eastwood, forward, and RudyChicago 0 0 0 Oakland at Toronto, 8:37 p.m., if release. Purchased the contract of TonyTampa Bay 0 0 0 0 0 0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 
necessary Eusebio, catcher, from Jackson of the Texas Poeschek, defenseman, to St. John's of the
0 1 4 0-0-0 0-1-0 0-0-0Detroit 0 0 
League. American Hockey League. Minnesota 0 0 
0 4 6 0-0-0 0-1-0 0-1-0 
American Hockey LeagueToronto 0 0 
National League MONTREAL EXPOS-Placed Tom Foley
0 5 6 0-1-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 
HERSHEY BEARS-Named Moe Mantha Smythe Division 
Tuesday, Oct. 6 and Jerry Willard, infielders, on waivers for 
assistant coach. Winnipeg 1 0 0 
Atlanta 5, Pittsburgh 1, Atlanta leads the purpose of giving them their
2 4 1 1-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 series 1-0 unconditional releases. 
VOLLEYBALL Calgary 0 0 0 
0 0 0 0-0-0 0-0-0 
Wednesday, Oct. 7 NEW YORK METS-Sent Julian Vasquez, American Volleyball Coaches Asso­0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0
Edmonton 0 0 0 0 0 0 ciation
Pittsburgh (Jackson 8-12) at Atlanta pitcher, to the California Angels to complete
0 0 0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0Los Angeles 0 0 0 (Avery 11-11 ), 3:07p.m. a trade for Dick Schofield, shortstop. AVCA-Named Kinda Asher director of 
San Jose 0 0 0 0 0 0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 publications.
Friday, Oct. g BASKETBALL
0 0 0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0Vancouver 0 0 0 
COLLEGE Tuesday's Games Wednesday's Game 
Atlanta (Giavine 20-8) at Pittsburgh National Basketball Association 
(Wakefield 8-1), 8:37p.m. DENVER NUGGETS-Signed Ernest Hall, NCAA-Named Dave Fish to the men's Late Games Not Included Chicago at Tampa Bay, 7:35p.m. 
Saturday, Oct. 10 guard, and Frantz Volcy, forward, to free and women's tennis committee and Paul Washington 6, Toronto 5 Thursday's Games 
Jantz to the softball committee. Montreal 5, Hartford 1 Hartford at Boston, 7:35p.m. 
Atlanta at Pittsburgh, 8:37 p.m. agent contracts. 
Sunday, Oct. 11 INDIANA PACERS-Named Randy BLOOMSBURG-Announced the contract New Jersey 4, New York Islanders 3 Quebec at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m. Atlanta at Pittsburgh, 8:37 p.m. if Wittman assistant coach. of Pete Adrian, football coach, will not be re­
Philadelphia 3, Pittsburgh 3 Montreal at Ottawa, 7:35p.m. 
necessary MIAMI HEAT-Signed Harold Miner, newed at the end of the season. 
Winnipeg 4, Detroit 1 New York Islanders at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. 
Tuesday, Oct. 13 guard, to a multiyear contract. KENTUCKY-Named Micki King HogueSt. Louis 6, Minnesota 4 St. Louis at Minnesota, 8:05 p.m. 
Pittsburgh at Atlanta. 8:37 p.m., if Continental Basketball League special ass1stant to the athletic director. Los Angeles at Calgary, (n) Edmonton at Calgary, 9:35p.m. necessary FARGO-MOORHEAD FEVER-Signed LA SALLE-Named Joseph E. Gillespie di­Vancouver at Edmonton, (n) Winnipeg at San Jose, 10:35 p.m. 
Wednesday, Oct. 14 Mario Butler, forward, and Andy Grosvenor rector of academic support services for stu­
Detroit at Los Angeles. 10:35 p.m. 
dent athle!1cs. necessary OMAHA RACERS-Named Jim Thomas Pittsburgh at Atlanta, 8:26 p.m., if and Justin Anderson, guards. 
NORTH CAROLINA-ASHEVILLE-An­assistant coach. nounced the resignation of Timothy J. Dillon, WORLD SERIES ROCHESTER RENEGADE-Signed Der­
athletic director. ~CAA Men'5 SQ~~er PQII t:lCAA WQmen'5 SQ~~e[ PQII Saturday, Oct. 17 rick Daniels, guard, and Greg Williams, for­ROWAN-Named John Dupuis assistant Oct.5 Oct5 American League at National League, ward. baseball coach. 
1. 
Virginia 10-0 1. North Carolina 11-0 8:29p.m. FOOTBALL 

2. 
UCLA 8-0-1 2. Stanford 9-0 Sunday, Oct. 18 National Football League 


No galn.No pain.
3. Duke 7-0-2 3. Connecticut 9-0-1 AL at NL, 8:29p.m. CLEVELAND BROWNS-Reclaimed Brad 
Maintaining a moderate weight may ruduce your risk of heart attack. 
4. 
Clemson 7-0-2 4. Portland 10-0 Tuesday, Oct. 20 Goebel, quarterback, off waivers. 

5. 
Washington 7-1-1 5. Hartford 10-0 NL at AL, 8:29 p.m. DALLAS COWBOYS-Released Bobby 

6. 
Creighton 7-2 6. Virginia 7-2 Wednesday, Oct. 21 Abrams, linebacker. 

7. 
Bowling Green 9-0-1 7. Santa Clara 8-2 NL at AL, 8:26p.m. NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Named 

8. 
PennS!. 9-2 8. Massachusetts 10-0 Thursday, Oct. 22 Mike Hanson director of public relations. 

9. 
St. John's 8-0-1 9. Southern Methodist 9-3 NL at AL, 8:26p.m., if necessary Resigned Darren Anderson, cornerback, to 

10. 
Dartmouth 6-1 10. Colorado College 7-1 Saturday, Oct. 24 the practice squad. 

11. 
StLouis 7-2 11. William and Mary 8-3 AL at NL, 8:26 p.m., if necessary SEATTLE SEAHAWKS-Signed Mike 

12. 
Furman 7-1-2 12. Central Florida 4-2-1 Sunday, Oct. 25 Jones, tight end. Released Rafael Robinson, 

13. 
George Mason 5-2-2 13. Rutgers 5-2-3 AL at NL, 8:29p.m., if necessary safety. 


14. San Diego 7-3 14. Duke 8-3 15. Indiana 6-4 15. NOTRE DAME 5-4-1 16. Hartwick 7-2 
16. Cornell 5-3 
17. James Madison 8-2 17. N.C. Greensboro 6-3-1 
18. Southern Methodist 6-2-1 18. Wisconsin-Madison 4-3-2 1g. UNC Charlotte 6-1-1 19. N.C. State 7-4-1 
20. Rutgers 6-3-1 20. St. Mary's (Cal.) 5-3-1 



Multi-colored design on Hanes white or ash T-shirt 
Available at select area distributors: 
Bleachers, Coaches, Hall of Fame Sportswear (downtown), Britton's Card Shop (located next to Tracks), or call287-6730 

or 1-800-338-5231 
With this ad get 10% off 
Armando's Barber & Hair Style Shop 1639 Edison Road South Bend, IN 46637 
Walking Distance from Campus Across from the Linebacker Appointments Encouraged Walk-ins taken on a l ~ come, l 11 serve basis 

!FOOTS~O:MPI9{' !f9UtfJ!ilfY 
~rUfay, Oct. 9 7-11pm Saint !Mary's Jfaggar Co([ege Center 
festivities  (jro6  
:Featuring Country 102fm  !Mozzare{[a Stic~  
Come & 'Boot Scoot 'Boogie  Cfiic~n Strips  
,___'Uii..:....;'tfi :Free 'Dance Lessons  f!'ator SKins w/Cfiuse  


.Plpp{e :Fritters 'Buffaw 'Uiings !Mini Corn 'Dogs 
a{[utufer $2 
:Free .Pltfmission 
~------------------------------------------------------~-----------------~-----------------­
page 12 The Observer 

Is Jack Morris the ticket to a title? 
TORONTO (AP) -A little older, a little wiser and defi­nitely a lot richer and a lot more relaxed, Jack Morris is ready again. 
Because when it comes to playing baseball's biggestALCS games, there is no 
pitcher with a bigger reputation. 
Who could forget that chilly night last October, Morris standing alone in the Metrodome as Atlanta loaded the bases in Game 7, the World Series championship in the balance? Or the result, Morris steadying himself and the Min­nesota Twins, finishing with a 10-inning shutout that earned him the MVP award? 
Morris will be back on mound Wednesday night when he starts for Toronto against Dave Stewart and the Oakland Athletics in Game 1 of the playoffs. He's already won titles with two teams, and now the Blue Jays are hoping he can take them there, too. 
"I don't know the task is ever any easier," Morris said Tues­day. "The fact that I've been there makes me more com­fortable." 
"But tomorrow, that little, wonderful feeling is going to come back," he said. "Playoff time in October." 
It's a time Morris knows well. 
He is 3-1 lifetime in the play­offs, including two victories against Toronto last year. He's even better in the World Series, going 4-0 with a 1.54 ERA in five starts. 
Morris' success in the post­season was a big reason why the Blue Jays forked over $10.85 million for two years and lured him away from his hometown Twins as a free agent. 
At 37, the Blue Jays expected a lot and they got it as Morris matched a career-best with a 21-6 record. Even though he tied for the major league lead in victories. some of his critics said he wasn't that great and pointed at his 4.04 ERA. 
True, Morris became the first 20-game winner with a ERA over 4.00 since Jim Merritt for Cincinnati in 1970, and just the 11th ever to do it. And it's true that such a stat could've left him this year in the company of pitchers such as Ramon Martinez (8-11, 4.00 ERA), Charlie Hough (7-12. 3.93) or Trevor Wilson (8-14, 4.21). 
But Morris and his manager have answers for that. 
"Let me explain something about ERA," Morris said. "You get a guy on second base, two outs and the batter hits a ball way up in the lights. The in­fielder loses the ball in the lights, it comes down and drops at his toes. runs scores. Earned run." 
"I always could've sworn they paid me on my wins and losses," he said. 
Blue Jays manager Cito Gas­ton admits that Morris has given up a few runs. No that it matters. 
"Actually, I don't think Jack's numbers are all that good as far as ERA," he said. "But ex­cept for Jack, we wouldn't be here." 
"He's the kind of guy who if you put up a couple of early runs and he knows he needs to hold you to those, he will," Gas­ton said. 

AP File Photo Atlanta shortstop Jeff Blauser hit a solo home run in the Braves' 5-1 win over Pittsburgh in the first game of the National League Championship Series. 
NLCS 
continued from page 16 
far as third base until Lind's second career playoff homer. 
And Smoltz didn't shut down just Barry Bonds, a leading contender for the NL Most Valuable Player who's been anything but Mr. October. Bonds was 0 for 3 but had plenty of company from the rest of the Pirates, who have scored all of two runs in their last four playoff games against the Braves' young guns of Smoltz, Steve Avery and Tom Glavine. 
The Braves had no trouble solving Doug Drabek. whose 
1.16 post-season ERA entering the game was the best of any 
o~& ~~(/) ~~0 ~ '" .~...··~o ~o:· 
~ b..... ~(/)
"' 
~
"<," 0v Halloween Party 
Show us your best! 
Costumes, Dancing Lots of Prizes! 
current pitcher with 30 or more innings. Sid Bream, the former Pirate who cried when he left the team two years ago, scored the Braves' first run and drove in the second and Jeff Blauser hit a solo homer. 
Drabek was hurt badly by walks -and by Bream, one of his closest friends when the two were teammates. 
Bream singled with one out in the second for the game's first hit and Damon Berryhill walked on a 3-2 pitch one batter later. Mark Lemke, Atlanta's unlikely offensive star of the '91 World Series but a .226 hitter this season. hit a hard grounder up the middle that second baseman Lind knocked down just to the right of the bag. 









-,)f 
presents 
"CALLED TO BE HOLY: DOROTHY DAY AND THE RETREAT MOVEMENT" 
Professor Brlgid O'Shea Merriman, O.S.F. Mount Angel Seminary 
Thursday, October 8, 1992 4:15p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge University of Notre Dame 
Wednesday, October 7,1992 

A's swagger intact without Canseco 
TORONTO (AP) -Here come the Oakland A's marching into SkyDome, still full of swagger. 
There's Rickey Henderson, strutting in the dugout. There's ALCS Mark. McGwir~, 
swingmg hard m the batting cage. There's Dave Stewart, preparing his death stare in the clubhouse. 
There's another Athletics player in the outfield, singing "0, Canada" out loud, his voice echoing through the nearly empty ballpark. 
Yep, Oakland is ready for playoffs, as always. Only one thing is missing. 
Where's Jose? 
"Yes, it does seem strange to playing them in a big series without Jose Canseco," Toronto reliever Tom Henke said Tuesday, a day before Game 1. 
"I mean, this guy has hit some mammoth shots here," Henke said. "There are a lot of other great players in the game, but not many carry the aura that he does. H 
Nor do many carry teams or create commotions the way Canseco can. Canseco was the talk of baseball after his home run in the 1989 playoffs in Toronto landed in the top deck, near the windows of a hotel that overlooks left field. By comparison, his homer off the glassed-in restaurant in center field was a popup. 
His big bat was a fixture in the postseason from 1988-90, even though it wasn't always productive -he batted just 

The Observer 
is looking for business and economic students to write a guest column for the· l3usiness Page. If interested contact Business Editor Pancho Lozano at 239-7471 
.156 in the World Series and was a little better at .273 in the playoffs. 
His big ego always was pre­sent at this time, too. He de­lighted in holding mass news conferences, once climbing into the stands in Cincinnati to hold court, and enjoyeo the crowds, once razzing fans in Boston after they taunted him with chants of "Ster-oids, Ster­oids." 
It seemed like both his power and personality would be on display this October, at least until one of the most stunning trades in baseball history, the one that sent Canseco to Texas on Aug. 31 for Ruben Sierra, Jeff Russell and Bobby Witt. 
Now, the 1\s are back in the playoffs for the fourth time in five years, and Canseco is back home. It just doesn't seem like old Oakland without him, does it? 
"It may seem odd to you, not to me," Henderson corrected. "What's so odd about it? I mean, things change. Life changes." 
Well, what about it, Dave Henderson? You were the guy who played in center field, next to Jose in right, for all those Oakland pennant winners. 
"Man, I've played in a lot of big games where Jose Canseco wasn't on my team," he said. "You play in baseball 10 or 12 years. you get to play with a lot of players. I don't see anything strange about it." 

-~-------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, October 7,1992 The Observer page 13 
Women's soccer gets a breather against Loyola 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team a gets a rest of some sorts as it takes on Loyola tonight at 5:00 on Alumni Field. 
After facing four nationally ranked opponents in eight days, the Ramblers give the Irish somewhat of a breather as they begin their Midwestern Collegiate Conference schedule. 
Notre Dame suffered three defeats during the four game stretch, but the one win over Wisconsin was called "the biggest in the history of Notre Dame women's soccer" by Irish coach Chris Petrucelli. 
It is the first season of play for Loyola, which holds a 2-8 record (0-2 in the MCC) 
"They have given up a lot of goals and haven't been able to score many," said Petrucelli about Loyola. "It will give us a good opportunity to get some players some time." 
An additional fact which won't he! p the Ramblers is that the Irish currently have no players suffering from serious injuries. 
"We are the healthiest we've been all year," added Petrucelli. "None of the players are injured seriously enough where it will effect their play." 
BY TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Sports Writer 
With most teams already more than halfway through their four game regular season schedule, intensity in interhall football games will be high this weekend, each team aiming to make the playoffs, which are only a few weeks away. 
Zahm 24, Sorin 0 
Zahm ran its record to 3-0 by trouncing Sorin (1-2). Big plays were the key to the Zahm victory, as junior Rick Rios caught a 45 yard touchdown pass from sophomore quarter­back Chris Hammond, who later connected with Pete Corry for another six. The ground game was also effective for Zahm, as team captain Matt Seng broke a 30 yard touch­down run for the third touch­down. 
OC 6, Grace 0 
Off-Campus, aided by a strong effort from its defense, improved to 2-1 by blanking Grace (1-2). Behind the stellar play of noseguard Tom Minis­calco and the linebacking trio of Tom Pitstick, Matt Carr, and Matt Davis, OC limited the tal­ented Grace backfield of quar­terback Tim Slentz and half­back Steve Romine to only one first down. 
OC coach Keith McKeon blamed his team's lack of scoring on inopportune 



IH football getting intense. as playoffs near 
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES 
Invite The UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME students to attend a presentation on career opportunities 
Thursday, October 8, 1992 8:00p.m. Main Lounge of the University Club 
Featuring Tom Helfrich, ND '72 Senior Vice President, Corporate Human Resources 
Recent Notre Dame Alumni and Interns will also be available to talk about their experiences at The Travelers. 
All majors encouraged to attend. 
Refreshments will be served. 

FALL INTERVIEW DATES: ACCENT 
(Information Systems Management) TTMP 
(Telecommunications) FMDP 
(Financial Management) MCEBO ASSOCIATES 
(Managed Care and Employee Benefits) 


TheTravelersJ 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
turnovers, but noted that the offense has been steadily "improving" since the first week. OC scored the winning points on a creative play, as fullback Denny Morrissey throwing an option pass to Davis for the game's only touchdown. 
Alumni 20, Fisher 7 
Alumni evened its record at 1-1 and denyed Fischer (o-3) its first victory in a game that, as Alumni coach Paul Zackland noted, "was dominated by our offensive line." Using a patient, ball-control offense, Alumni wore down the opposing de­fense and then relied on quick­strike passing for its points. Patrick Bitter was on the re­ceiving end of a 50 yard bomb, and Tyrone Smoak scored on a slant pattern for the game's first two scores. Rob Hardi­son's 25 yard touchdown run, sprung by great downfield blocking by the Alumni re­ceivers, put the game out of reach, as Fischer managed its only score on a long, cut-back run late in the game. 
Carroll 28, St. Ed's 0 
St. Ed's (0-2) was held to negative yardage and Carroll moved to within a game of first place with a convincing victory inspired by quarterback Jon Oleksyk. Oleksyk threw to fel­low captain Jack Hay for a 20 yard score, connected with Anthony Laboe for 15 yards 
November 10-11, 1992 November 10, 1992 November 10, 1992 November 10, 1992 
~ 
and another touchdown, and ran 14 yards for a third. 
The Carroll defense was also dominating, as it re­covered a badly snapped punt deep in St. Ed's territory, which Dan Turner converted into points on a three yard run. The third touchdown was also set up off a turnover, as George Keegan intercepted a pass with one minute left in the first half, leading to Laboe's reception. 
Flanner 7, Dillon 6 
Planner stayed undefeated with its second victory by edg­ing Dillon (1-2). The differenGe in the game was a missed extra point after Dillon's first drive, which climaxed in a 1 yard run by Mike Fox. Planner later an­swered with a 60 yard quarter­back sweep and converted the extra point for the eventual margin of victory. Dillon had a chance at more points late in the game, but Planner recov­ered a fumble at its own 40 yard line with three minutes left and ran out the clock. 
Keenan 7, Morrissey 0 
Keenan went to 2-1 by shut­ting out Morrissey (1-2). Both team's defenses played well, but Keenan's Dave Dettore broke the game open with a long run for the game's only score. Morrissey coach Jamie McMillan noted that his team drove well the entire game, but lamented the two fumbles in Keenan territory that prevented his team from getting on the board. 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Irish Youth Hockey League is looking for ND students to coach or assist coaches during the upcoming hockey season. If interested, contact Scott Gosselin at 271-7414. 
The Aikido Club will be having open practices on Mondays and Wednesdays from 6~8 p.m. in Rockne 219. Everyone is welcome. 
RecSports is taking entries for campus badminton, men's and women's interhall volleyball and co-ree basketball. Entry deadline is October 7. 
Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club practice times have changed. The club will now meet on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7:30p.m. in the Fencing Gym at Gate 4 of the JACC. If you have questions, call Tim Kalaman1s at 277-6797. 
The SMC track team will be holding an organizational meeting on October 12 at 8 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. Come to the meeting f()r moreinformation and to meet the coach. 
The ND/SMC women's lacrosse team will practice at Saint Mary's at 4:30 p.m. on Wednesday. If the weather is inclement, the team will practice at Loftus at 10 p.m. on Wednesday. If you have any questions, call Heather at 284~5103. 
The crew team will have a meeting on October 7 in 204 O'Shag at 7:30p.m. for all varsity rowers. Everyone should bring their checkbooks; 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will be playing walleyball tonight at 5 p.m. on court 2 in the JACC. All are welcome. If you have questions, call Ed at 283~1276. 


CONCERT OF LITURGICAL MUSIC IN CELEBRATION OF 11-IE 15011-1 ANNIVERSARY OF NOTRE DAME 
PERFORMING 
'l(J:.~!SSM{{:'E 'MUSIC !f011...S~l'JI/!JJ O![ 'l'JiE C9{'ll'l{CJf 
Saturday 
October 10, 1992  
8:00p.m.  ~ r  
Basilica of the Sacred Heart  1  ·  •  

The concert is free and open to the public , , _, 
Sunday· s Rre For Students 






~orr!~~ 
Downtown South Bend 
Free Food Bp.m.-lOp.m. 
Specials Bp.m.-12 
Come with your friends to watch Sunday night football, enjoy FREE food, great specials and Ruresome Halftime Rafflesllllll 

page 14 The Observer Wednesday, October 7,1992 
Saint Mary's soccer loses
Irish volleyball attacks Indiana St. 
BY DAN PIER Sports Writer 
Now that the Notre Dame vol­leyball team has its own game running smoothly. coach Debbie Brown wants her charges to concentrate on attacking their opponents' weaknesses. The Irish did just that last night, defeating Indiana State 15-7, 15-6, 15-12 at the Joyce ACC. 
"I was encouraged by the fact that we told them in practice which shots would be open, and they really worked hard to hit them in the game," Brown said of her hitters. "We were going for the deep corner, and we hit quite a few balls just out, but I encouraged them for at least trying to do what we worked 
on." 
Notre Dame (13-2) started slowly and fell behind the Sycamores (7-9) 5-1 in game one. Christy Peters led a comeback, however, tallying six kills as the Irish took control. Brett Hensel served up an ace to finish off the game. 
Notre Dame got off to a 9-3 lead in the second game. Outside hitter Marilyn Cragin and middle blocker Jessica Fiebelkorn led an efficient of­fensive attack which pounded out 23 kills and committed just 6 errors. Cragin and Fiebelkorn had 6 kills apiece in the game en route to leading the team with 13 each for the match. Those two seniors have been among the six offensive players who have seen a lot of action so far for the Irish. 
"I felt very good about the of­fensive production of Jessica 
footing in loss to Kalamazoo 

BY MAGGIE HELLRUNG 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's sports are having the kind of season that would make the average sports fan cringe. Following the lead of Irish football last Saturday, Saint Mary's soccer lost their footing against Kalamazoo Tuesday night 2-0. 
"The girls played extremely strong in the first half," said coach Tom Van Meter. "It was just one of those situations where we just ran out of gas." 
The Belles had a strong hold on Kalamazzo first half. out­shooting them and keeping a strong defense. The situation was not quite as bright in the second half. as the Belles fell off guard, allowing Kalamazoo to cash in with two goals. 
"We've gotten into the habit of relying on one or two players to do the job, said VanMeter. "The girls are becoming watchers instead of participants." 
The Belles were set back after St. Thomas put an end to their undefeated season, beat­ing them 1-0 last Saturday. 
Kalamazoo, however. had a clear advantage over the Belles. For the past two years Kalamazoo has represented this area in the NCAA tourna­ment. 
"Life is more difficult now in terms of getting a post-season bid," said Van Meter. 
Saint Mary's faces Division III Wooster College at 3:00 Satur­day afternoon and Division III Denison University at 12:00 on Sunday. Wooster is ranked second in the region this sea­son, and Denison is tied with Kalamazoo in the rankings. The final scores to these two crucial games will decide whether or not the Belles have a shot at a post-season bid. 
The overall reaction for the Belles is disappointment, but the loss to Kalamazoo gives the team incentive to work hard this week in preparation for the weekend. 
"This week we will have to concentrate more on our sup­porting attack," said VanMeter. "The girls have to work a lot 
and Marilyn," said Brown. bewildered by her team's "They definitely have been frequent difficulties in third 

SMC volleyball defeats Chicago 
playing very well for us.  It's  games, but was impressed by  
just a matter of trying to find  tonight's comeback.  Special to the Observer  
the right combination and the  "The last game was disap­ 
right chemistry."  pointing," Brown explained.  "I  The Saint Mary's volleyball  
really believe that the team is  team defeated the University of  
Notre  Dame  struggled  trying.  Maybe it's the fact that  Chicago Tuesday in a tough,  
through game three, trailing 5­ we're  so  concerned  about  five-game match. 15-9, 9-15,  
2 and 12-9. They came through  having a good third game that  15-7, 11-15, 15-11.  
with the match's final six points. however, two of them on kills by Cragin. Brown is  we're not focusing on the fundamentals and just executing."  Michelle Martino led the Belles with 30 assists and 12  

digs, followed by Karen Lorton's 29 kills and 17 digs. 
Saint Mary's rebounded from a tough weekend at the Wheaton College tournament, where a loss to North Central kept them from reaching the playoffs, despite wins over Illinois Wesleyan. Rockford and Albion. 

Cavanaugh defeats Keenan in first 
reduce
round of interhall soccer playoffs 
By KEVIN JANICKI Sports Writer 
After compiling a 4-0 regular season record. the Cavanaugh men's interhall soccer team continued its win streak into the playoffs with a 1-0 opening round victory over Keenan yes­terday. 
Cavanaugh goalie Pat Robin­son registered his fifth shutout in as many games. 
Both teams played solid de­fense throughout the match until Tim Williamson put Ca­vanaugh ahead within the first five minutes of the game by placing a hard shot into the up­per left corner of the net from forty feet out. 
Basics 
continued from page 16 
as Holtz also updated the 
team's injury situation yester­
day. 
Cornerback Greg Lane will miss the Pittsburgh game with a neck injury. The junior will be replaced by either Travis Davis, Bobby Taylor or LaRon Moore in the starting secondary. 
Demetrius DuBose (elbow) 
... and Reggie Brooks (hip) did not practice yesterday and are questionable for Saturday, as is Bryant Young (shin, wrist). Lake Dawson's ribs are bruised, not broken, as was originally believed. He will probably play against Pitt. 
Cavanaugh brings its win streak and strong defense against the winner of today's Alumni-Morrissey contest. 
Thursday's games: Carroll 3, Zahm B 0 
Carroll finished the regular season at 4-0 with a 3-0 victory over Zahm B on Thursday. Rudy Christopher scored two goals while Tom Leahy added one for Carroll. On the season, Carroll scored fourteen goals while allowing only two. Carroll earned the number one seed in the playoffs and will face num­ber eight Grace A on Thursday afternoon. 
reduce reuse 
recycle 
<)~ ob ~~(J) ~~0 ~ '" ~~0 ~b· 
~ ~ COQj
~...._b ~~ Karaoke 
" t__O
-, Every Wednesday 
9:30-1 :30 
Grace A 6, Off-Campus 2 
reuse 
Grace A clinched the final playoff spot with a 6-2 win over Off-Campus on two goals by Stephan Schroffner, two by Joe 
recycleTvrdy, and one each by Jaime Parr and Greg Butler. 
Senior Government Majors
Sunday's games: Morrissey 1, Sorin 0 
Are you interested in attending graduate school Morrissey clinched the sixth 
in the political sciences?
playoff position on Sunday with 
Come to an informational meeting TODAY at
a 1-0 victory over Sorin on a goal by Jeff Hopkins. Morrissey 
8:00p.m. in the Dooley Room at LaFortune finished the regular season 3-1. Morrissey will face undefeated 
sponsored by Pi Sigma Alpha
Alumni today. 


7,9 Wednesday 9~2 Access Denied 
Sponsored by the Class of '93 
must be 21 
Today 
Wednesday, October 7,1992 page15 
SPELUNKER 
(ONIJINCED BY Cot1MISSIONE:I< BORD£N nun nl£ All £N 
RRITO P£OPL£ AR€ A&J!JT fD Anf\~, CCM-BOY GETS !HE foLKS AT NA5A 1ZJ LOAN 1-tl A SPACE SHumE. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
'{OU WA.t-ll A.  Nt.W  
FR\ENO 10 PV.'(  
W.\11-\?  
'"'2  
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  27 Aristotle's  47 Bellicose god  
t White House dog in the 30's 5 Yugoslav coin  "political animal" 28 Pen point 31 Praline ingredient  49 Emulated Lantz's Woody 53 Of the morning 56 Run  
9 Kind of phone  34 Computer  57 Of wrens and  
or wave  symbol  hens  
14 Leigh Hunt hero  38"-boy!"  58 Robot  
15 End of a Breslin title 16 Famed oil-well firefighter  37 Century plant 380tto­Bismarck 39 Large kangaroos  60 Detached &t Rainbow flower &2 Pie plates 63 Deed recipient 64 Paddy product  
t7Any0PEC member  40 Kind of package for the poor  &sMobutu-Seko, President  
19 Succinct  41 Yield  of Zaire  
20Asnake  42 "I'll Walk Alone"  
mackerel 21 Escapades 23 Harbor seal 24 Cynosure on a green 25 Mortgage  songwriter 43 Rutledge or Rutherford 44Rock's­Halen 45 Dorothy Gale's pet  DOWN t Confronts 2 Humble 3 Spanish city or playwright 4 Kin of a pressure  
cooker  
5 Sense of taste  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
6 Afghan bigwig 

7lnmedias­8 Formicary group 
27 He painted 
9 Mature married 
"Cape Martin" 
woman 
29 Lay-(flatter)
to Perfect type 30 Supply station 31 S.A. rodent 32 First elected governor of Alaska 33 Ohio's state flower 35 North Atlantic 
26 Actor who wrote fish "The Moon's a 38 Domineering Balloon" people 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BILL WATTERSON 

LOOK ~ONE'l, O.N 'tiE Tf..LK f..Pf.:NT ~1\T 0\'ERI\TION SC>tlo.E On\ER DME ~ 

39 Regard highly 41 Hacienda, e.g. 44 Antique owner's 
concern 46Contest 46 Washer cycle so Porter's "­
Went to Haiti" 51 Certain collars 
52 Thickly populated 53 Saint--, French port 54 Swear 55 Leo's lodgings sa Of the ear 59 Scene of the Tell legend 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
mIt's never too early to start thinking 
::::» about your costume for the biggest 
..I Halloween celebration ever! 

z~o October 31st at The Club 
. 9--2
.­
•. \ 
-I : •'" ..: 
v~ '·..
3Hl 
must be 2J._ 
-
.. 
-
.. 
page 16 

RICH KURZ 
Eye in the Sky 
What happened to the mystique of the stadium? 
Something a little bit unnerving has 
been going on over at Notre ~a~e 
Stadium lately, and it's been bmldmg 
ever since two years ago, when we first 
lost to Stanford at home. 
Since that time, of the last seven 
games the Irish have not won (that 
means ties, too), five of them have 
come at home. That doesn't happen to 
championship football teams. 
The hated Miami Hurricanes have a 
48-game home-win streak, and even 
Notre Dame tradition supports that 
premise. For nine seasons, from 1942 
through the 1950 season, the Irish won 
28 straight home games. And four 
national championships. 
This has been the rule even during 
the Lou Holtz era. After a close-24­
19-loss to Penn State in Holtz' first 
year at Notre Dame, the Irish didn't 
lose another game at home until that 
fateful loss to Stanford two seasons 
ago, which very nearly ended the Irish 
national championship hopes for that 
season-until a home loss to Penn State 
did. 
Nineteen games in a row at Notre 
Dame Stadium ended in an Irish victory 
at home during that streak, which saw 
one national championship and a close 
second-place finish. 
Dominance like that at home is what 
causes visiting opponents to pack it up 
in the fourth quarter and give up. 
When opponents walk into a stadium 
full of nearly 60,000 screaming fans, 
with the knowledge they are about to 
play in the house that Ro~kne ~uil~, 
home to 11 national champiOnships, It 
certainly gives Notre Dame an edge. 
Or at least it did until Stanford 
stunned the Irish at home two years 
ago. That planted a seed in the mind of 
opposing players. Notre Dame coul~ b.e 
beaten at home. So Penn State did It 
and Tennessee rallied to defeat Notre 
Dame as well. Teams weren't packing 
it in in the fourth quarter any more. 
In 1989, the Irish were 6-0 and 
number one, and behind late to the 
Trojans. Everyone in the Stadium knew 
the Irish would come from behind, 
even USC. There was no way Tony Rice 
wouldn't drive the Irish to score and 
win the game.The same thing 
happened in Rick Mirer's first game as 
a starter, versus Michigan in 1990. 
Teams just didn't come in and beat 
Notre Dame at home. 
But now with the gloss taken ofT after 
a number of home losses visitors have 
heart instead of fear in the final 
moments of the game. The intimidating 
home-field edge the Irish has had in 
years past has disappeared. 
If the Irish are to regain their spot at 
the top of the polls, the place to be~n 
is at home. Until Notre Dame regams 
that hard-won home-field advantage, a 
national championship will be a tough 
goal to reach. 
';;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~
INSIDE SPORTS 
•trish 
volleyball defeats ISU see page 14 

•women's 
soccer gets a breather see page 13 


aJays bank on Jack Morris see page 12 
Sports 
Wednesday, October 7,1992 
Smash-mouth football returns as the Irish regroup 
BY MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Editor 
Smash-mouth football is back. . .. . 
Irish coach Lou Holtz said yesterday that the team IS gomg to go back to the things we really believe in." This means running the football. . Holtz believes that his team has had to rely too much on big 
plays throughout the first five games of the season. "We don't need to make great plays, we just need to play great " Holtz explained. . 
"when we throw the ball 28 to 30 times a game, that IS not us. That is not the way great teams win. Great games are won by defense and controlling the football. . . 
"You can't control the ball without falling I?to a rhythm, and it's easier to get in that rhythm with the runmng game than the passing game." . f Holtz believes that this big play reliance could be the cause o the Irish's second-half swoons over the past three seasons. . 
"We would go into the game wanting to knock a team out m the first half. We played so well in the first half of the fo~r losses (against Stanford in 1990 and this year, Penn .state ~n 1990 and Tennessee in 1991) that when. we made a m.Istake m the second half and put ourselves in a bmd, we weren t able to regroup " Holtz said. 
"From' this point forward, we're not looking for the knockout. We're looking to go all 15 rounds." 
Another change in the Irish offense could be the use of t~e second-team, which Holtz plans to use for "a series or two" m the first half for the remainder of the season. . 
The second unit, though, has to show Holtz that they. Will not 

turn the ball over, not miss assignments, not get pe~alized ~nd play with a lot of emotion and toughness to earn Its playmg time. 1 d 
"In the past, at North Carolina State and Arkansas, ~ p a~e, two offensive teams in both halves. It's something I believe m, Holtz commented. 
Holtz gave two reasons for the move. . 
"It's not bad to have your first team on the bench ~atch1~g other people perform, as long as those people are domg their job. Also, when guys know they're going to play on Saturday, 
The Observer/Pat McHugh Jerome Bettis and the rest of the Irish backfiel? will get more chances to run the ball as the Irish return to their smash-mouth football of the past. . 
their practice intensity increases," the seventh-year coach .sm~. 
"I've never seen the second unit practice as well as It did yesterday," Holtz added. "I expect that team to move the football." . 
A few second-teamers could also see time With the first team, 
see BASICS/page 14 
Men's soccer expecting another Atlant~'s gamble pays • • off 1n game one
physical game agamst Detroit victory 
BY JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
It will be a typical Midwestern Collegiate Conference men's soccer game. . . 
When Detroit Mercy visits Alumm Field tonight to face Notre Dame, they wi.ll bring the physical style of play that IS common in the MCC. 
They will also bring the second-leading scorer in the conference, Stephan Glover. 
"Everytime we play them it's very physical and we're expect!ng ano_the~ tough game," Irish coach M1ke Berticelli said. "They also have two or three dangerous players that we will have to keep in check to win the game." 
The Irish have some dangerous players of their own, however. 
After his hat trick Sunday against 
Dayton, freshman Bill L~nz~ no~ has four goals this season, which ~Ies him for the team lead with junior Mike Palmer and senior Kevin Pendergast. 
With a break or two, all three players could have several more goals alr~a.dy this season. Those missed opportumt~es have been a major problem as the Insh have stumbled to a 5-4-1 start, with a 2­
1 mark in the MCC. 
With five sophomores and three freshmen in the starting lineup, inexperience is a big factor as the y0 u n g e r pIayers try to a dj ust to t h e college game. . , 
"It (youth) is definitely a maJor factor, 
Berticelli commented. "Sometimes the younger guys are looking for a perfect opportunity, but they have to learn that it's okay to make mistakes as long as 
they're aggressive. . 
Young or not, the Irish h~~e still missed some scoring opportumties that could have changed the complexion of the season. But with eight games 

Bill Lanza 
remaining before the MCC tournament, there is still time to improve. 
"We've had a whole bunch of chances, but sometimes that net can seem pretty small after you've been hammering away at it," Berticelli said. "Our concern tonight is to finish the way we are capable of finishing." 
Defensively, the Irish have proven that they can handle some of the best players in the country. Olympian Joe-Max Moore of UCLA and the MCC's leading scorer Doug Tegge of Xavier were both held scoreless by the Irish defense and sophomore goalkeeper Bert Bader is just seven shutouts away from the Notre Dame career record. 
But the defense has been steady this year and the offense remains Berticelli's main concern. 
"We can't get away with being tentative," he explained. "They (the younger players) have to learn to take risks and convert the tough chances, that's what wins games." 
Notre Dame owns the series against the Titans with a 7-1 record since the series began in 1987. Detroit's last win came in 1990, when they defeated the Irish 2-0 at Moose Krause Stadium. 
ATLANTA (AP) -Atlanta's gamble with John Smoltz wasn't so risky after all. 
Smoltz, a right-hander who struggle~ through September, added to P~tts~urgh s Octgher wpes Tuesday night, ~Itching the NLCS Braves to a 5-l victory over 
...:..;;=..;;;;..;;---the Pirates in the first game of the National League playoffs. 
Smoltz held the heavy-hitting Pirate lineup scoreless until Jose Lind led ofT the eighth with a home run to left field. That ended Pittsburgh's postseason scorel~ss 
streak at 29 innings, one shy of the maJor 
league record. 
Now the Pirates must come from a game down if they are to avoi~ becomi~g the first team since the Phlladelphta Phillies of the late 1970s to win three consecutive NL East titles without advancing to the World Series. 
Braves manager Bobby Cox gambled perhaps the whole series .by starting Smoltz against the predommantly left­handed-hitting Pirates, and was rewarded. Smoltz gave up just four hits before Mike Stanton took over in the ninth and gave up a two-out double to Jeff King before striking out Orlando Merced. 
"I thought the game plan I had coming in, it ended up working," Smoltz said. "I kept the guys off base ahead of (Andy) Van Slyke and Bonds, and didn't allow them to get a big inning going. I got. out of the gate good, but I stiffened up a httle bit late and was able to get a five-run cushion." 
Smoltz who shut out the Pirates 4-0 on six hits in Game 7 last fall, didn't allow a hit until Lind's two-out infield single in the fifth. 
The NL strikeouts leader was even more overpowering than he was in beating Pittsburgh twice last October. He struck out six and allowed only one runner as 
see NLCS/page 12 






