


USQUIClNIINN"H 
VOL. XXIV NO. 139 WEDNESDAY , APRIL 29, 1992 
Homeless day raises 
Brown challenges 
students in speech 
By PAUL PEARSON putting one candidate on the 
awareness 

Associate News Editor ballot strengthened its system. he said. "The Democrats will 
By JEANNE DE VITA 
News Writer 
suffer the same fate if it 

Former California Governor attempts an anointment of Jerry Brown challenged Notre Clinton," he said. Dame students to "take back Brown also doesn't believe 
Several Notre Dame student organizationsthat his campaign will help

• Brown's background/ page? 
sponsored "ND for the
Bush's re-election bid. The me­
Homeless Day" Saturday,dia, he says, has mistakenly 
April 25, to raise money andgiven him the title of 'spoiler.'

America" at a campaign speech awareness for the problem of "The media have permission to on campus yesterday. 
homelessness in American. 
say certain things, but if a can­Speaking in a packed Stepan The goal of the day, "wasn't 
didate repeats some of those

Center, Brown. a Democratic just to raise money," saidthings, then it's 'spoiling,"' he
candidate for President, ac­Mike Griffin, Student
said.

cused the federal government 
Government Chief of StaffThe presidential campaign

of losing its capacity to change. 
and organizer of "ND for theshould be a debate about the"The current leadership has be­Homeless Day." 

future of this country, Brown come beholden to $1,000 cam­

"We wanted to raisesaid. "That doesn't hurt Bill

paign checks. That is a scandal, awareness. Homelessness isClinton. That helps America,"that is intolerable and it's time a problem not a lot of people he said. 
for a change." 
at ND can identify with," said In his speech, Brown calledBrown, who is gearing up for Griffin adding that one offor a program to provide fi­

the May 5 Indiana primary 
every 100 Americans is
nancial scholarship to allelection. criticized what he 

homeless.
American college students. "Itr.alled the current "prostitution While various bands played is not right that any qualifiedof American politics to money. 

in Stepan as part of
American should face economic money and more money not Hogstock, an An Tostal event, barriers to going to college,"fro~ the many, but from the 

cups with statistics on
said Brown.

few. 
homelessness were sold forBrown called student loans "aAs an example of this trend, $1.00.
distortion of the whole purposeBrown pointed to a fundraising Coca•Cola, Inc. donated soft of higher education." 

dinner for President Bush 
drinks to be sold in the cups. 
The federal government, ac­scheduled for Tuesday night. 

Saturday night, Senior Barcording to Brown, should not

People attending the dinner 
donated all cover charges, inuse lack of money as an excuse"can buy a Cabinet member (to 

addition to the money
not to give all students scholar­sit at their table) for $30,000 an received from the sale of the ships. Brown pointed out thathour," Brown said. "What does Bush forgave Egypt's U.S. debt 

see HOMELESS I page 4 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
samtMary's College 
NOTRf: QAME•INDIANA 


that sound like?" he asked. in exchange for support duringEvents like these, Brown said, the Gulf War.illustrate the fact that "in the "I wish (Bush) would do the 

Catholics on the sidelines of protests 
land of the free and the home of 
same thing for everyone in this

the brave. democracy is being 
BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) ­
audience who supported the

debased by a system that values 
Though their church condemns
Gulf War," Brown said. 

participation of the few more 
abortion, Buffalo's Roman
Brown also defended his pro­

than partiripation of the 
Catholic clergymen and lay
posal to replace the current

majority." 
people have largely stayed on
"4,000-page tax code which
This rif:'basement, according 
the sidelines while Operation
nobody understands" with a flat

to Brown. has made 
Rescue members pray, chant
13 percent tax with rebates for

Washington insensitive to the 
and get arrested outside clinics. 
senior citizens and deductions

needs of ordinary peoplP. 
"The bishop is a very power­
for rent and new technologies._

"Where is the commitment to 
The current national tax sys­ful man and I don't know why
national health care, to full 
tem, Brown said, does not he's hesitant to use his powers," 
employment, to a living family 
work. "As proof of this, I offer Guy Savio, a 76-year-old 
wage for every American?" he 
Catholic from Buffalo, said
the fact that they change it ev­

asked. 
while participating at an anti­
ery year," he said. 
People should not think that 
abortion protest this week out­
Another thing that should be

Clinton has wrapped up the 
side a Buffalo clinic. "At least
cut is the national defense bud­

party's nomination, said Brown. 
the bishop should show up.
see BROWN/ page 4 

The Soviet Union believed that 

Firth is entitled to funding 
Taking advantage of spring 

Breen Phillips' freshmen Jen Tilghman, Karen Gunther, and Susan Hund, left to right, prepare for the upcoming week of finals by studying outside yesterday on the second beautiful April day. 
Why doesn't he? That's a good question.... The bishop has been silent." 
Operation Rescue leaders said they considered this city an at­tractive site for clinic sieges in part because the Buffalo Roman Catholic diocese is one of the largest in the country with 766,000 members. 
But unlike in Wichita, Kan., last summer, where local Bishop Eugene Gerber attended some protests and many Catholic priests were arrested, the Buffalo diocese has been all but silent on the demonstra­tions. 
As the protests continued a ninth day Tuesday, federal marshals were ordered to ar­rest five anti-abortion leaders who allegedly violated a judge's injunction prohibiting them from blockading abortion clin­ics. Meanwhile, about 150 demonstrators on each side of the abortion issue clashed out­side a clinic, resulting in 78 ar­rests. 
Bishop Edward Head of the Buffalo Diocese told Catholics before the start of local Opera-
see CATHOLICS I page 4 




By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
News Writer 
The Indiana Court of Appeals ruled last week that Andrew Firth, a deaf University of Notre Dame law student, is entitled to public funding for services to aid him in the completion of his law degree. 
The Court of Appeals did not specify, however, how much or what specific services Firth was entitled to. The amount and services will be decided by the state office of Family Services Administration, which did not grant Firth his original request for services. 
The Federal Rehabilitation Act of 1973 mandated that money for special services to the disabled would be 80 per­cent funded by the federal gov­ernment, and 20 percent by the state. 
Indiana usually does not make the 20 percent match, ac­cording to Milo Gray, Jr., Firth's representative in the case from the Indiana Protection and Advocacy Services. 
Firth applied for aid from the Office of Vocational Rehabilitation (OVR), a division of the Family Services Administration, which orginally supplied with him an inter­preter for his classes. The in­terpreter they supplied him with was not technically profi­cient enough to aid Firth with his law classes, according to Gray. 
"The only real determinant (for OVR) funding is that you have to have a disabilitv, the OVR office has to approve it, and you have to set a career goal, that's really all it takes," said Firth. 
An interpreter certified by the National Registry of Interpreter for the Deaf and skilled enough to help Firth in law classes would cost $30 an hour plus 
see FIRTH/ page 4 


~~-~ ~~--~--------~-­
------~ .-;--.-. ~ ~ 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Catholics think for themselves 
At the ripe old age of 19, I was already set in my ways. 
Then Joe happened. 
Joe teaches Catholic Social Thought. Four months ago he promised that none of us would leave his class with black and white answers to questions of morality.
Furthermore, our present
ideas would be 
challenged and may be changed. 
Good luck. You're too late. I've already got 
it all figured out. 
Abortion, poverty, nuclear weapons, 
women in the priesthood, surrogate 
mothers, capital punishment, the works ... I 
could go down the list checking yes, no, yes, 
no, but I didn't always know why I felt a 
certain way. Nevertheless, I knew what was 
right for me. 
Wrong. 
How can morality be relative?-Joe asked 
the first day of class. Isn't there one God that 
makes up the rules and it's our duty to try to 
figure them out? How can there be a 
different code of morality for each individ­
ual, society, or race? Could it be that know­
ing what's right and following it-that being 
a Catholic-is hard? 
Finally, I was given a licence to be judg­
mental. I no longer dismiss dialogues and 
debates by saying it's pointless to argue. 
With the idea of there being absolute truths, Joe then presented Vatican docu­ments and substantiating and opposing ar­ticles on various topics of social concern. We learned the official Catholic Church teachings. And we also learned that individ­ual conscience prevails above the law. Ironically, these are not incompatible ideas. The Catholic Church began to look less re­strictive. 
Over the weeks, we were challenged to know why we felt certain ways and to be able to verbalize our convictions. No matter how strong an argument I made, there was always one to attack it, some as strong if not stronger. Consensus was not the goal in class. 
I think we all left classes a step closer to solidifying our individual stances. Was there still just one truth to pursue? 
Kathy and I are good friends and we sit together in class. Yet we have yet to agree on whether euthanasia and capital punish­ment should be allowed. We go round and round, knowing we'll never convince each other that our side is right. And we're both Catholic. 
Is there a point at which one can disagree so much that she ceases to be Catholic? As it is, there isn't one issue I agree whole­heartedly with. I'm now inclined to find ex­ceptions or disagree completely, such as with women in the priesthood and birth control. 
The Catholic Church endorses both paci­fism and just war. It is not free from para­doxes. I feel entitled to amend some of the hard and fast laws and formulate my own ideas. A mistake I used to make is to think that to be Catholic, you couldn't think for yourself. In Joe's words, we should not only reproduce but produce arguments that en­able us to find and evaluate our places in the Catholic tradition. 
The views in the Inside Column are those ofthe author. 
Today's Staff Production News Lisa Bourdon Alicia Reale Stephanie Goldman Sarah Doran Sports Accent Jen Marten Jahnelle Harrigan Jon Jensen Patrick Moran Lab Tech Systems Jake Peters Harry Zembillias 
Graphics Aoo-Marje Conrado 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

ANNA MARIE TABOR Saint Mary's 
E;:;.d;:;.i..;.;to;;.;.r__ 
The Observer 

Pr9SSur8 
b~,~J [Til QA [M
H L ~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW Via Associated Pfflss 
, TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
President leaves office amidst chaos 
•ROME -Three days after his surprise resignation speech, President Francesco Cossiga on Tuesday de­parted his office with little ceremony and the nation in a political vacuum. For the first time since the postwar republic was founded, Italy found itself without a per­manent premier or president. The situation mirrors the lack of leadership that seems to have gripped the polit­ical establishment following Parliamentary elections on April 5. The presidency is largely a ceremonial post, but it has two key functions of prime importance now as politicians try to form a governing coalition. 
NATIONAL 
A new version of Jane and Tarzan 
•NEW YORK -Tarzan and Jane probably never looked so good, but don't tell that to the heirs of Edgar Rice Burroughs. The author's family has filed a $1 million trademark infringement suit against the Conde Nast magazine empire over a "Tarzan, Meet Jane" fashion spread in this month's Vogue.Aside from using the characters without permission, th~ Burroughs family also charged Vogue with monkeying around with the "high moral standards" Burroughs set for Tarzan and Jane."The sexually charged portrayals ... are inconsistent with good, wholesome and attractive images of Tarzan and Jane which have been cultivated, developed and maintained by Edgar Rice Burroughs . . . over 70 years," the lawsuit said. 
OF INTEREST 
• 
Auditions to read at the Senior Baccalaureate Mass will be held in the Sacred Heart Crypt, not the Basilica, today at 4 p.m. 

• 
Refrigerator return will take place Thursday on the Stepan Basketball Court from 11 a.m. until 2:30 p.m. and on the Lyons Court from 3 p.m. until 6 p.m. It is your responsibility to bring the refrigerator to the truck. Please defrost, clean and dry your unit completely. 

• 
Faces of Women, a Film by Desire Ecare, will be 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ April 28 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX • 229,282,930 

225.12 v 0.18 S&P COMPOSITE 409.11 .oft 0.66 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,307.92 it 3.36 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD..f $.30 to $336.90oz. 
SILVERf' .03¢ to $3.94oz. 
Wednesday, April 29, 1992 
FORECAST 

60 percent chance 
of thundershowers 
today with a high 
around 60. Clouds 
will increase tonight 
but the temperature 
will stay above 
freezing. 

TEMPERATURES 
City H L 
Anchorage 52 37 
Athens 75 50 
Atlanta 56 41 
Bogota 92 80 
Boston 50 37 
Cairo 84 59 
Charlone 61 46 
Chicago 4 7 28 . 
Cleveland 51 37 :> 
Dallas 76 59 
Detroit 55 32 
Indianapolis 45 31 
Jerusalem 72 52 
Los Angeles 90 64 : 
Madrid 82 48 < 
Minneapolis 57 42 · 
Moscow 43 34 
.~. Nashville 57 36 · · 
New York 65 45
'~ 

Paris 55 48 Philadelphia 63 43 Rome 77 50 Seattle 69 52
§ -!) ~ c:::1 
South Band 4 g 2 8 
ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY Tokyo 75 57 Washington. D.C. 61 45 
Newborn found in garbage is thriving 
•NEW YORK -A newborn who was found near death in the garbage chute of an apartment building celebrated his second day of life Tuesday with a prognosis of good health.."When he came in he was pale, cold, barely breathmg and had a very slow heart rate," said Dr. Bangalore Suresh, a neonatologist at Jacobi Hospital. "He looks like a normal baby today," the doctor said. "He looks around, and likes to be cuddled."The child was slightly bruised and had suffered some trauma when a building employee found him Monday, buried up to his neck in trash in the garbage chute of a 6-story apartment house. 
INDIANA 


•IN IANAP LIS -The city is putting on its mouse ears for the month of May, with the beginning of the Indianapolis 500 Festival this weekend. Disney charac­ters will be involved every step of the way -guarding the finish line of the "Minnie" Marathon, parading downtown in the 500 Parade and staging a Disney show at the annual Mayor's Breakfast.It's all part of "Walt Disney World's 20th Anniversary Surprise Cele­bration. "Disney has choreographed the two-hour parade, which will be nationally televised and hosted by talk show host Regis Philbin and local WRTV anchorwoman Diane Willis. 
shown at the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum tonight at 7 p.m. 
• 
The Not Ready For Mainstage Players present Samuel Beckett's Waiting For Godot tonight in the Library Auditorium at 7:45p.m. 

• 
For anyone interested in foreign service work with the State department, an information session will be held Monday, May 4 at Northwestern University and Tuesday, May 5 at the University of Chicago. For more information call the respective university. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1913: Swedish-born engineer Gideon Sundback of Hoboken, N.J., patented the zipper. 

• 
In 1945: American soldiers liberated the Nazi concentration camp in Dachau, Germany. 

• 
.In 1974: .President Nixon announced he was releasing ed1ted transcnpts of some of the secretly-made White House tape recordings related to the Watergate scandal. 

• 
In 1983: Harold Washington was sworn in as the first black mayor of Chicago. 

•In 
1986: The Soviet Union appealed to the West for help in fighting a reactor fire at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant that had sent a radioactive cloud across northeastern Europe. 


page 3 The Observer 
Townsend: British poverty worsened 
By SANDY WIEGAND Assistant News Editor 
Poverty in Britain has wors­ened under Tory leadership, but the problem has deeper roots than Conservative Party poli­cies, according to Sociologist Peter Townsend. 
International demands for European unity and privatiza­tion of government services en­courage policies that short­change the poor, he said in an interview Tuesday. 
Townsend is a University of Bristol professor, visiting pro­fessor at the City University of New York and the husband of Jean Corston, a Labor Party member elected to the British Parliament this month. He vis­ited Notre Dame yesterday to speak on "Trends in Poverty in Britain: International Causes and National Consequences." 
Britain is becoming more "Americanized" in that it is los­ing its "universalistic" attitude, Townsend said, and heading toward the privatization of many government programs. 
The Conservative government has taken steps toward a pri­vate healthcare system, he said, because they found a national­ized healthcare program to be "too big an example of collec­tivism to be allowed in the idea of a free market." 
Britain is now creating "hospital trusts," permitting some hospitals to manage themselves as "non-profit­making, independent corpora­tions," he said, which "can be­gin making decisions on the ba­sis of their budgets." 
Although Britain has not reached American poverty levels, Townsend said, in the 1980's not only did the rich get richer, but the "purchasing power" of the poor seems to have diminished. The Conservative Party has given tax relief to the middle-class and rich, he said. 
"I have a very despondent view about the future as far as the poor are concerned," he commented. 
Under former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, "20 to 30 different measures reduced the Social Security budget," Townsend said. Low-income public housing is being phased out, he said. The old units are being sold, and no new ones are being built. 
The deregulation of labor 

is now accepting application for the following position: Design Editors 
Paid Position To ap l , lease contact Jeanne Blasi at 239-7471. 
laws has weakened workers' bargaining position, and there is little protection from low wages, Townsend said. Before Thatcher, government pensions were adjusted as a person's earnings changed, but Thatcher introduced a price-based sys­tem. 
"So a pension has no more value in terms of what it can buy than it did in 1979, for many people," Townsend said, explaining that the old system would give the average pension recipient 24 pounds more each week. 
Britain's recent entrance into the European Economic Community (EEC) is constrictive to the country's social policies, he said. The EEC is designed to strengthen Europe as a whole, so smaller inter-nation projects are sacrificed in return. 
"The movement to the European Community has weakened the notion of nation states to govern themselves," he said. For example, some in­centives for investment in high­unemployment areas of Britain have been scrapped. 
British acceptance of Caribbean African immigration has been a "varied story" until now, Townsend said, but the EEC requires that all members share a common policy on im­migration. On such social poli­cies, he said, countries are re­duced to "the lowest common denominator." 

QUIT SMOKING. 

=========================================r.nent local figure since his days
r;: as an All-American basketball 
Clothin2 & Usable Item Drive 
The St. Vincent De Paul Society 




Clothings, Furniture, 
Appliances, & Usable Items.  Other  
ALL  Residence  Halls  
Monday, May 4 Tuesday, May 12  

Monday, may 20
-0\1PU5 

MNI5TRY Campus Ministry, 239-5242 & 
The St. Vincent De Paul Society; 234-6000 
Wednesday, April 29, 1992 


The Observer/Rachel Belanger British Professor John Townsend, visiting from the University of Bristol, addressed a group in Hayes-Healy yesterday on the topic of "Trends in Poverty in Britain: International Causes and National Consequences." 
"There is a real danger of ex-ing to Townsend. British poll-colonial countries becoming sters and media had predicted a even more racist," Townsend win for the Labor Party. said. Party members are trying to 
The Labor Party is "still trying decide whether the opinion to pick up the pieces and polls were conducted poorly, or understand" its unexpected loss the public had a sudden change in the April 9 elections accord-of mind, Townsend said. 
Rosenthal is feature speaker 

Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal will be the fea­tured speaker at the 21st an­nual Michiana Area Community Prayer Breakfast Friday at South Bend's Century Center. 
Bill Gates, president of Gates Toyota, is chairman of this year's breakfast. 
Rosenthal has been a promi­
player for Notre Dame from 1951-54. 
During a 25-year tenure as chief executive of St. Joseph Bancorporation and St. Joseph Bank and Trust Co., he was ac­tive in numerous civic projects, including the International 
Summer  Special  Olympic  
Games in 1987.  
As  ND  Athletic  Director,  

Rosenthal has added four var­sity women's sports-golf, soc­cer, softball and track-to the University's program, but dropped the varsity wrestling 
Dick Rosenthal 
team from the program on April10. 
The ND football team has played in a New Year's bowl game in each of his five years as AD, and the Irish men's bas­ketball team earned runner-up honors in this year's National Invitational Tournament. 
The prayer breakfast, first held in 1971, draws more than 700 local business people an­nually. Tickets for the prayer breakfast are $15 each and are available by calling 237-4999. 

r--------''------'"------------­
Whenthe Great AmericanDream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
--~-------­
Wednesday, April 29, 1992 The Observer page 4 

Firth 
continued from page 1 
travel time form her home in 
Kankakee. Ill., but the OVR 
would only fund $15 an hour 
for an interpreter. With aid 
from Notre Dame, he has been 
paying for his interpreter 
during the past three years. 
and hopes to be reimbursed be­
cause he won his case, said 
Firth. 
"I went through several ad­ministration hearings and won them all. but then the director of the OVR overturned the deci­sion for no reason, so I took the case to court" said Firth. "Also. I hoped it would set a precedent for other disabled in the state of Indiana." 
Firth appealed and also asked for funds to cover his tuition, books. transportation and living expenses. 
"He was only asking for what he found he was eligible for ac­cording to standards set by the Federal Rehabilitation Act." said Gray. "When he went with the case he was only asking for money for an interpreter, but then we determined he was eli­gible for a number of other services." 
The OVR's contention was that Firth was not entitled to aid because he had already re­ceived a degree from Gallaudet University in Washington, D.C.. which serves the deaf. After sending out 18 resumes for a possible position in advertising. marketing, or technical writing. and receiving no invitations for 

Homeless 
continued from page 1 

promotional cups, to the homelessness fund. 
The event was the result of the efforts of the Alumni Senior Club. Hall Presidents' Council, Student Union Board, Student Government. and Coca-Cola, Inc., and according to Griffin, did happen to coincide with the Earth Day events. 
The sale of the cups and the donated cover charges totalled almost $600. which. according to Griffin. be will presented in a check to South Bend's Center for the Homeless. 
Brown 
continued from page 1 

is the national defense bud­get. Brown said. The Pentagon build-up during Ronald Reagan's presidency, according to Brown, "was set up to deal with the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union has been dealt with." 
The money spent on new 
Catholics 
continued from page 1 

tion Rescue demonstrations that while the church abhors abortions, "I will not personally participate in civil disobedi­ence." 
"I believe the Spirit is calling 
While Griffin said he was very pleased with the success of the day, plans are in progress to make "ND for the Homeless Day" a week-long event next year. "We had wanted to do something bigger, like a whole week," said Griffin. 
"We were more than happy with the results of this event. This is the type of event that we really want to keep going next year, " said Student Body President Greg Butrus. 
Tentative activities for next year's ND homelessness awareness events will include increasing the number of stu­dent volunteers at homeless centers as well as guest speak­ers to address the topic. 
weapons, Brown said, should be spent on more pressing is­sues. "The greatest threat to this country is not incoming missiles, but the incoming (economic) gap between Americans." 
Brown said he intends to re­main in the presidential race all the way to the Democratic National Convention. "We in­tend to fight all the way (to the convention) as a voice of reform and change." 
the terrible violence of abor­tion," he said. 
He said the diocese would continue to provide spiritual 
comfort and education in an ef­fort to deter abortions from being performed, or needed. 
"The diocese has left the de­cision up to each individual as to whether the person wishes to take part in Operation Rescue," he said Tuesday. 
interviews. Firth met with a r••of-u~;;,s.;t;,;;;o~p,r;_:a~y~fo~r~a~nl!e~n!iid~t!iollll!~...---------­
counselor. who together with 
him determined that law school was the route he should take, said Gray. 
"A lot of people who are handicapped need a lot of as­sistance to meet their needs to get the person where they can 
be self-sufficant which is our 
goal," said Gray. "If we can get them to self-sufficancy with higher education than that should be our goal." 
Gray added that "This case 

was one of the only ones in the 1f~~~~~;~~~;;;;;~~~;;r~~~~~
country that has dealt with higher education.This case clarified a few things." 
Cheryl Ashe, a special services librarian at the South Bend Public Library, said that the case is very important for not only people born with handicaps. but also those who may suffer later onset handicaps. "If later in life I were to become deaf for instance, I may not want to do cataloging, the job open to most death librarians. The OVR would not have traditionally funded my education for anything outside of my original field, but this case may now change that." 

UNUSUAL SUMMER JOB ON CAMPUS 
WNDU needs a vacation reBel technician for summer employment from May through September to install, operate, maintain, and repair radio, television, cable, and aatellite equipment. Tbia u ideal for a technically-minded 
science/engineer student with a know-ledge of electricity and electronia. The po8ition is for up to 40 hours per week, includes shiltwork, and requires a vand driver's license with Commercial endorsement. Please apply at the WNDU Studios Ma ut. 
The Notre Dame African Student Associ;ltion 
I 
l'resen ts
I 

I lJ'aces ofWomen 1
I 
A Film by Desire Ecare 

I I 
Color. Ivory Coast. 1985 1
I 

In indigenous languages and French with English I
I 

subtitlesI Award of the International Critique II Award of the International Council of Television & II Movie at Cannes Festival 1985 -London Festival 1985 -I I San Francisco Festival 1986-New Directors/New Films I I at the Museum of Modern Art 1986 I I The First Movie From Ivory Coast to Have Ever I I Reached New York I 
This politically and stylistically adventurous two-part film <'Xplores 1
I 

thl• link between feminism, economics and tradition in mndern-dav Africa. 1 The Film creat~ a rich tapestry of the textures and rhythms of village life I as well as points out wryly ironic comparisons between the economic and the sexual stratagems adopted by African women in a patriarchal snciPtv. 
I 

Venue: Annenburg Auditorium -Snite Museum I Date: Wednesday April 29, 1992 I Time: 7-8:45 pm Admission: $ 1 or more donation I 
SilllJwla;. NoiN ~Jun. A&lcan Stud.m ~Bducallonal Media. lnlerllallonal I Studoo• Alfaln omoe. Antbropoloo ~Nrlcan and AIHcan·Amarlcan I 
Sludi.J'rotlnm 
J 

Navy sex abuse probe 'appalls' top official 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A seven-month Navy investigation into allegations of sexual abuse at a Las Vegas convention last year uncovered "unacceptable conduct," and a top Navy offi· cial said Tuesday he wants "all appropriate actions" taken against those involved. 
However, Navy sources say, it is unclear exactly whether any officers will face criminal charges in connection with the incident because investigators were "stonewalled" by Navy and Marine Corps officers during their probe into the incident. 
The investigation centered around allegations that nearly two dozen women were abused during the September 1991, meeting of the Tailhook Association. a booster club for active-duty and retired Navy pilots and others who support naval aviation. 
Officials familiar with one of the reported incidents said naval pilots formed a gantlet in a hotel hallway and tried to rip off the clothes and grab the body parts of women who ran past the pilots. 
Navy Secretary H. Lawrence Garrett III, who was briefed Tuesday about the Navy's two investigations into the incident, said he was "appalled by the unacceptable behavior and attitudes reported in those investi­gations." 
"The investigations indicated a lack of responsiblity, absence of moral judgment and indade­quate standards of integrity on the part of Navy and Marine Corps officers who could have asserted positive leadership, but failed to do so," Garrett wrote in a memo made available to The Associated Press. 
The memo was addressed to the Chief of Naval Operations. Adm. Frank Kelso II. and the commandant of the Marine Corps, Gen. Carl Mundy, Jr. 
REFRIGERATOR RETURN THURSDAY, APRIL 30th 
STEPAN BASKETBALL COURT 11:00 AM -2:30PM LYONS COURT 3:00 PM -6:00 PM 
IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBIUTY TO BRING THE REFRIGERATOR TO OUR TRUCK! PLEASE DEFROST, CLEAN AND DRY YOUR UNIT 
COMPLETELY! 

S11JDBHT UNION IO.utD 
THE NOTRE DAME 
~ 
VARSITY SHOP 
...-r 
VARSITY SHOP 
introduces its 
END OF THE YEAR SALE in the BOXING ROOM 
IO ·30% OFF SELECTED MERCHANDISE!! 
May 1-3 and May 11-13 11:00 am-3:00pm 
nter JACC thro 

Now Accepting AppUcations for: 
DJ's for 199z.c)3 School Year 
Pick up appUcatlons at lnlo. desk in LaFortune DeadUne: MAT 1, s:oo PM Questions Call James @ 239-'75%1 

-----------------------------------------......................iiliiilliiiliiiiii....... 
'. :·,"'t .. ,t \ 1 ...=-.)·....'.~ ',·• •.. ;~.") ~ ()·~ II ., :!, · 1 ~ :c c r t· ,. Vi page 5 The Observer Wednesday, April 29, 1992 
Commonwealth states to follow nuclear pact 
KIEV, Ukraine (AP) -The heirs of the former Soviet nu­clear arsenal have agreed to follow an international arms pact that will slash nuclear weapons, Ukraine's president said Tuesday, reaffirming his nation's pledge to relinquish such missiles. 
The four nuclear powers in the Commonwealth of Indepen­dent States will soon sign a protocol promising to abide by a 1991 U.S.-Soviet treaty cut­ting long-range nuclear arms by at least 30 percent, said Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk. 
He also reaffirmed a nuclear 
disarmament pledge by 
Ukraine, which has been 
squabbling with Russia over 
how to dismantle weapons. The 
other two commonweath nu­
clear states are Kazakhstan and 
Belarus. 
"Ukraine will be a non-nu­
clear, non-aligned state," 
Kravchuk said at a news con­Jerence. Ukraine halted shipments of 
missiles to Russia earlier this year, saying it wanted interna­tional supervision of arms de­struction. Kravchuk said last month that Ukraine would re­sume the transfer of arms, but no date was set. 
There were an estimated 27,000 nuclear weapons in the former Soviet Union. The nu­clear protocol is designed to ease U.S. concerns about the commonwealth living up to the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty. Earlier this month, Russian lawmakers opposed to President Boris Yeltsin said they would not follow pacts ap­proved by the Kremlin. 
Kravchuk said the nuclear pledge would be signed by the four states "quickly," but he did not give a specific date. 
Kravchuk also wants guaran­tees that Russia will not use atomic weapons. 
"Why should the Ukrainian people be subject to retaliation if a decision to use the weapons is made outside Ukraine?" he said, referring to Russia. 

,. ---BRING THIS COUPON TO QUALIFY ---., 
I BUY at INVOICE* I 
I I 
College Graduates I NO &SMC 1
$500 Rebate•• 1 

~I 
(ltt~tnGLS 

I any new FORD or HYUNDAI ........ I 
l=or Details contact: BASNEY FORD I J.AARK HOUSE_R ~I H=RI! Phone 291-6910 

r y • ""f'fi 32o EAST IRELAND RnAo I Sales Representafwe SOUTH BEND.IN 46614 I 
I "Rebate to dealef: Ptus tax, doc.. title and tags. ""Ford vehicles only. 
----BRING THIS COUPON TO QUALIFY ---­

HALFOFTHE PEOPLE WHO READTHISAD WON1GETINm LAWSCHOOL. 
Here's a surprise lesl of your molh skills. access to our compulers and study programs. Divide 95, 000 low school applicants into Plus,v..e offer the two-day lSAT Intensive·Study 
44.000 openings. Now you realize why it's Clinic the las! week before the exam so 1mportanl to take the Ror·kin lSAT Reserve your place in our lSAT course by Preparation course. May 15 and we'll include the $225 clinic lor 
First p/11 take a free diagnosli( te.st Then free Call Rankin today and find out how the we'll work with you in beHer half gets 1nto the 
:~~~-~:~~~~~ RONKIN.GETIN: ~~:c:chool 
of their 

lSAl•GMAT•GRE•MCAT•TE',f PREPARATION Af'-JD APPLICATION ASSISTANCE 
THE OFFER: RESERVE BY MAY 15. SAVE $225. 
South Bend 273-1866 

Yale international medical program turns to backyard 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. (AP)­For 10 years, Dr. Michele Barry has sent doctors-in-training to places like Zimbabwe and Fiji to help people who need medi­cal attention and to learn how to practice medicine with lim­ited resources. 
Now, the co-director of Yale University's International Health Program has found a less exotic location where med­ical residents can provide the same services and learn the same skills: New Haven. 
"I thought I was being a bit of a hypocrite sending physicians abroad when infant mortality and health has become as bad in the inner city of New Haven," she said. 
New Haven is one of the poorest cities in the nation and its infant mortality rate is 18.5 deaths per 1,000 live births, about twice the national aver­age. Experts blame poverty, drug abuse, poor education and lack of access to medical care. 
The Yale School of Medicine is still sending residents abroad, but late last fall it began dispatching medical residents to city soup kitchens. 
Along with a solid meal, the homeless can get a checkup. 
,.--------------, 
The Not Ready For Malnstage Player" 
presl'!ll: 
Waiting For Godot 
~) 
Wednesday, April29, 1992 Library Auditorium-7:45p.m. 
free admission 
A team that includes an at­tending physician, two resi­dents, a pediatric nurse, social worker and substance abuse counselor visits one soup kitchen one day a week for two hours. They see an average of 15 patients a trip. 
They operate out of a van equipped with a tiny examining room and stocked with over­the-counter drugs, part of a cooperative effort involving Yale, a city health clinic and a local foundation. 
"It's a multidisciplinary ap­proach, much like we do in vil­lage care," Barry said. 
Food is the first priority of people going to soup kitchens, so the team doesn't usually see people until they're finished eating lunch. One woman diag­nosed with appendicitis asked if she could finish her meal before being rushed to the emergency room. 
"A lot of these people don't realize they can get free health care," Barry said. 
During its stop Thursday at a soup kitchen in the basement of St. Ann's Church, the medical team saw about a half dozen patients. Two-received immu­nizations and one patient was given a post-surgical checkup. 
Mary Paige, 5 months preg­nant, also was examined, her first visit with a doctor since last 

ARtCORD YO~ CAN ~RtA~ 
STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF NEEDED! HElP BEAT THE BIG TEN RECORD fOR MOST PEOPlE AT AN AEROBICS ClASS 
FRIDAY, MAY 1 

4:30PM .___/ 
STEPAN FIELD ~ 
(IN CASE OF RAIN-LOFTUS CENTER) 

QUEST FOR THE HOLY GRAIL 
TONIGHT AT: 

MOttTGOMERY THEATER. LAFORTOtfE 
SHOWS AT 7, 9, & 11 PM ADMISSION: $2.00 PRESENTED BY: THE MEDIEVAL CLUB 
THE KNIGHTS WHO SAY "NEE" INVITE YOU TO BRING SHRUBBERY TICKETS AVAilABLE AT l.AFORTUNE BOX OFFICE 

-~---~~-~ ---------~---~-­
Page 6 The Observer Wednesday, April 29, 1992 

I wish to express my deepest apologies to Father Gene Gorski, the guys at St. Ed's, and any students who • took time out of their busy schedule to attend the 7:00 p.m. speaking engagement that, unfortunately, never came to be. Due to a mechanical problem with my original flight, I was not able to attend the engagement on time. Please accept this apology, understanding that I would never do this to anyone on purpose. 



Peace & Love. Sincerely, 

P.S. My life really isn't that interesting. But thanks for caring anyway. 
page 7 The Observer 
Brown has gained new-found credibility 
By SARAH DORAN television advertising, Brown 
News Writer relies on free coverage like ra­
dio talk shows. He also runs a 
30-minute television on late 
Democratic candidate Jerry night channels in primary areas Brown addressed a crowd and on the Discovery science Tuesday during a visit to Notre channel. Dame, hoping to involve stu­The Brown campaign is pi­dents in his campaign for the oneering a new campaign fo­presidency before Indiana's rum involving computers. On primary next Tuesday. March 29, Brown appeared on­
Many failed to take Brown's line through the GEnie network campaign seriously during the for an hour of "talk" with sub­initial campaign time, but, with scribers. He was also sched­victories in Colorado, Vermont, uled to do the same on the Connecticut, a second place CompuServe network. finish in Michigan. and strong The constituency that is sup­showings in Maine, Utah, porting Brown, according to Washington and other states, he exit polls, is most often a voter has gained new-found cred­who has "grown up in the post­ibility as Arkansas Governor Vietnam, post-Watergate era of Bill Clinton's only remaining political cynicism," said New challenger for the Democratic York Times reporter Robert presidential nomination. Reinhold. "It tends to be a per­
The Brown campaign is fo­son has not voted before," said cused on trying to sell the can­Brown's campaign manager, didate as the champion of the Jodie Evans, his long-time aide little guy against big money and and fund-raiser. power. The former California Jerry Brown is a 54 year-old Governor is running on a grass former Jesuit seminarian who roots platform that calls for a was a two term governor of 13 percent flat tax along with a California from 1972 to 1982. national value added tax of 13 He ran for the presidency in percent, a national health care 1976 and 1980 and lost the system, and a program to de­California senate race in 1982 velop non-polluting energy to the present governor of sources. California, Pete Wilson. 
His fundraising technique is After losing the senate race, unique with its use of an 800 Brown resumed his spiritual WASHINGTON (AP) ;___., Presi­contribute to the political
number to accumulate dona­journey by living at a Zen 
dent Bush on Tuesday hosted a parties and the political system, tions which may not exceed monastery in Japan and also by dinner billed as the biggest you are supporting the process$100. With the exception of his working with Mother Terse_11. 
fundraiser in history, with con­in America, you're supportingcampaign staff of only seven among India's poor. 
tributors paying top dollar -the political process, you're
paid workers, Brown's staff are U.S. News and World Report $400,000 from one executive -buying into the political process all volunteers, including the all­and The New York Times con­to rub elbows with the adminis­as a participant."
volunteer staff of Indiana which tributed to this article. 
tration's elite. Invitations promised those
numbers over one thousand. 
The President's Dinner was who raised more than $92,000
Without funds to buy a lot of expected to raise more than the a private photo opportunity $7.1 million it raked in last with Bush and top fund raisers year. The minimum contribu­a chance to sit at the head table tion was $1,500 per person. with Bush or Vice President

Fulbright Competition 

Presidential spokesman Mar­Dan Quayle. lin Fitzwater defended the din­Contributors who bought two ner's promise of special access tables were promised a private
1993-94 

to Bush and other key officials reception with Bush and his for the top contributors. wife, Barbara, or a reception
Current Juniors interested in 

"We don't believe it's buying hosted by the Cabinet in addi­influence, but it certainly ... it's tion to lunch with the Quayles

pursuing Graduate Study Abroad 
buying access to the system, and receptions with congres­
yes," Fitzwater said. "When you sional leaders. 

after graduation are invited to an 
infonnational meeting with 

advisor, John Welle on Wednesday, April 29, 1992 at 7:30 
P.M. in room 204 O'Shaughnessy 

~KKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKM 
!<JRAND RE-OPENING 
~  FRIDAY MAY I  
~  The Fondue Parlor  
~  
~  
~  
~  
~ 
~  
~  ~  Going Home Special  
~  
~  ~  Make someone happy with a gift fro  
~  
~ ~  Taste the .Aroma. of Ronuuu;e..... Reservations for  Saint Mary's College  
~ ~  Graduation now taken  ALL CLOTHING 10% OFF  
~  During Finals Week May 4-May 8  

~ 1 00 Center Old Brewery Building 
at 
~ Mishawaka ~ 255-1526 Saint Mary's SHAHEEN BOOKSTORE ~KKKKK.KKKKK.KK.KKK.KKKKK.KKKKKKKKKKKKKKM "'"'----------------------' 


VVednesda~Apnl29, 1992 
Foremost among the contrib­utors was Michael Kojima of International Marketing Bureau in Los Angeles. After that, it was Carl Lindner of American Financial Corp. in Cincinnati, according to latest reports to the Federal Election Commis­sion. 
A secretary who answered the phone at the Wilshire Boule­vard address that Kojima listed said he rents an office there from the law firm of Cummings and Pantaleo which represents him, but that he never comes into the office. 
"We haven't heard from him in six months," said Lil Vasquez, who said that as a secretary for the law firm, she takes messages for Kojima. She said she did not know the na­ture of his business. 
Kojima was on the guest list for a Wednesday afternoon re­ception with Bush at the White House, the White House said. 
However, a woman who an­swered the telephone at the Brentwood address where Ko­jima is registered to vote said that he is in Japan until mid­May. The woman, identifying herself only as Katie, said the Brentwood address was not the Kojima residence but the busi­ness office of his wife who runs a student placement firm called Academic Recruit Corp. 
rstudentS~ 
Work 
Overseas 
Worl< legally on short-t2nn P"'!J'MIS: 
• Britain • Ireland • France • • Germany • Jcmaica • New Zealand .Costa Rica 
COlllCII's Wor1< Abroad Program, the only one of Its ldnd...cuts through the red tape! 

Council Travel 


Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, April 29, 1992 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ..Anna Marie Tabo r Controller ........................ David Beliveau 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Longtime banker shouldn't be NO's athletic director 
Dear Editor: to take a banker of twenty five 
Mr. Rosenthal's insensitivity years and appoint him athletic and duplicity in the handling direetor of one of the most of the wrestling program prestigious athletic programs crystallizes why just as it is in the country. eompletely illogieal to take an Paul O'Connor Jr. M.D., P.A. athletie director of twenty five Captain, NO Wrestling, 1959 years and make him president Montclair, New Jersey of a bank, so it is also illogical April 23, 1992 
Customs of Jewish forgotten in Easter services Dear Editor, customs of our Jewish 
I recently had the pleasure of ancestors, the very founders of attending various services cele­the Church. I suggest that brating Easter (at Sacred Heart beginning next Lenten season Basilica). The Congregation of the University of Notre Dame Holy Cross truly displayed a strive to educate the Catholic marvelous Christian spirit in community about the Jewish remembering this holy season. faith and the time of passover. However, as I sat and listened Marlene Miles to the Gospel reading, I couldn't Campus Ministry help but wonder about the April 20, 1992 

Loretto renovation is rash, insensitive 
Editor's note: the following Just what does all this nonsense in years past for there is really was originally sent to the mean?! Assuredly, little to be found which is au­General Council of the Sisters "Environment and Art in thentic Religious life. (And if I 
of the Holy Cross St. Mary's of Catholic Worship" (U.S. might be curious enough, justthe Immaculate Conception. Bishops Committee, 1978) is personal enough, I would be in­Dear Sisters: not a master document, for this terested in seeing a picture of Just when the faithful think work watered-down extensively the General Council in lteligious
matters have quieted down a the Post Conciliar Document of Habit and wearing the Veil. Of little within the Church in the Vatican II with instructions for course, this is non-existent!)
United States with all the de­struction occurring in the name renovation of existing 
You simply betray the history

Churches, moderate at the
of Vatican II, there comes 
and tradition of the

along another incident which is most. 
Congregation of the Sisters ofindicative that abuses continue. 

Perhaps, you recall during the the Holy Cross, the memory ofCited is a newswire release re­time of prominence of religious such an outstanding neligiousgarding the proposed (and goods' stores, Barclay Street in woman and educator as Sisterplanned) renovation of Our New York City was known for Madaleva, the many genera­Lady of Loretto Church located its cheap wares. In reputable tions of Sisters within youron the campus of the mother­fields of architects and liturgi­community, the benefactorshouse and college of the Sisters cal planners today, the present and alumnae and friends whoof the Holy Cross. This action advisors for your renovation sacrificed so much to make it aof the General Council is unbe­are possibly part of that radical living Faith.
lievably appalling, disregarding group of renovators known as Hopefully, many who gener­history and tradition, theologi­"the architects from Barclay ously contribute to your sup­cally and liturgically departure Street• whatever other good port will no longer see appro­from sound principle. 
credentials they might possess. priate to contribute in the fu­Tournier, Belgian humanist, Among many, whatever their ture. And should there be thatobserved, "If the past is not for "enthusiasm for change," a element within youryou a living past, if you have no handsome sum of money is still Congregation who seek
understanding of its deep 
the bottom line. "Business as "Worship space", "the table" -­meaning for the future, then, it usual in America." and that ever so desirablewould be better if you left it I am strongly suspect that the "bride's room" --then, youalone. • proposed changes to Our Lady might just consider building aThe action of the General of Loretto Church take their new structure far from whereCouncil adequately expresses mainsprings from a group of the faithful can see it less theythis thought as you seek not to feminists within your be offended. 
renovate, but to destroy a Congregation. The harm these As a layman, even thoughbeautifully designed church, Sisters have caused and cause these words might be harsh,rich in symbolism to bear within the Church in the United they arise nonetheless, out of a truths of the faith, a church States is one of the saddest love for the Church, the authen­whose altars, statues, stained episodes within the contempo­tic Church, the faith of theglass windows --whose very rary Church. Apostles, the enduring faith offoundation, walls and roof -­the centuries. I am sad that the came about solely through the They seek for themselves a General Council would be sototal generosity and sacrifice of "new identity", a "new role' rash, so insensitive, to consideralumnae, benefactors, the sim­even as they depart from the such a renovation. It is a mat­ple faithful. 
vocation to which called, ter, that even now, you might whether as educators, nurses wish to pray over for light, even 
The faithful have heard all the or missioners. Seeking this new as I pray for you. phrases, the empty explana­identity, they crowd chancery tions, the wanton cliches for offices and their special too many years now: "worship "apostolates' with their utter Richard J. Reddingtonspace", "the table", "liturgical nonsense continually disturbing Youngstown, OH lighting", ·moveable chairs", the faithful. April 22, 1992 "the chapel for eucharistic Meanwhile, young women no reservation• and on and on. longer crowd their novitiates as 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'A large section of intelligentsia seems wholly devoid of intelligence.' 
G. K. Chesterton 
Only two days to submit!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

---~-~-~---~-----~-----~--­
Viewpoint
Wednesday, April 29, 1992 page 9 
Seniors: Get a job. • . but make time for others, too 
As the end of the school year arrives, it is important to reflect on where you are going as well as where you've been. So here are a few words of advice for the Class of 1992. 
First, get a job! Quit acting like someone who used four years of eligibility at the University of Miami and now has nothing to do. Get out there and start making money. 
Secondly, never do anything that would reflect badly on Notre Dame while you are wearing a Notre Dame shirt­especially one that has your name on the back. 
Thirdly, save the world. It may seem like a tall order to fill, but you can do it a little at a time. The volunteer and so­cial concerns experiences Notre Dame provides are stepping stones for you. 
That may sound simplistic, but let me give an example. A man who loves to umpire soft­ball and referee basketball started a program that trains inner-city youth. Since forty­two percent of young males in the District of Columbia are ei­ther in jail or on parole, any program for inner-city youth is welcome. One person can and does make a difference. 
Get involved with a program that interests you. Finally, make time for others, and give to others. We 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
hear so much about our Notre Dame family, but do we really care about fellow Domers, let alone complete strangers? I recall a homeless man on the Washington, DC streets who graduated from Notre Dame. He had admitted to his family that he was gay, and they had ostracized him. He then turned to cocaine, lost his job, and ended up on the streets. After being helped by a St. Mary's graduate who was a social worker, he recovered from his addiction. The last I heard of him, he said he was going to make it. 
That reminds me of the homeless man who wore a Notre Dame sweatshirt. The shirt had obviously been a hand-me-down. Every day the man would sit in the rear of a Catholic Church on Capitol Hill during the lunch hour. At the 


Capitol Comments 
By Gary J. Caruso 

end of mass he would drop a few coins into the poor box as he left the church. It made me think of the vast wealth I had compared to that man, and how I rarely dropped anything into that poor box. 
How many times have we all given a dollar instead of five at mass? How many times have we justified our stingy actions because of our dislike of a priest or a church policy? That man's example makes me think a little more than I previously did about charity. 
Last Sunday I visited Martha's Table soup kitchen during their Easter meal. A sign on the wall greets visitors at the doorway entrance, "Love is having two loaves of bread and five fishes which is not enough until given away." Almost 2000 people ate a hot, holiday dinner that day be­cause people of means volun­teered to help those with little or nothing. That was a warm, satisfying sight. 
You can be one of two types of alumni. You can be mone­tarily wealthy, wear green plaid pants at football games, give little to others and in return get little spiritual reward out of life. On the other hand, you could go to the opposite extreme by living paycheck to paycheck, wearing jeans at football games, and working in your community helping others. We probably all fall somewhere between these ex­amples. Now is your beginning, so decide wisely. 

Graduation is a time of many beginnings. In fact, every day offers a new beginning. The trick to living a happy and successful life is to use each today for to­morrow. That is best de­scribed for me in these lyrics: 
Don't stop thinking about tomorrow 
Don't stop; it'll soon be here. 
It will be better than before. 
Yesterday's gone, yesterday's gone. 
Hum that tune in your head on graduation day so that a few years from now you will remember more than an after­noon with President Bush. If anyone asks you about com­mencement exercises you can say, "I sang." 
Gary J. Caruso is a graduate of the University of Notre Dame and now works in Washington, D.C. as a desktop publishing specialist for the United States House of Representatives. His column appears every other Wednesday. 

Student responds to questions about beatification 
Dear Editor: 
Last week, Father Richard McBrien, from the Theology Department, published an article titled "Opus Dei and the Spectre of Beatification" in Common Sense. In it he raised several questions about the process which led the Pope to the decision of beatifying Monsignor Josemarfa Escriva de Balaguer y Albas (That is the correct spelling, and not Josemaria Escriva de Balaguer, as Common Sense mistakenly printed). founder of the "Personal Prelature Opus Dei." 
The beatification will take place this May 17th. I am well acquainted with some of those concerns, so I want to give an answer to Father McBrien's questions. 
In his article, Father McBrien quotes several times another one. which was published by Newsweek last December. That article was regarded as highly inaccurate, sensationalist, and full of non-contrasted opinions by several major European newspapers, :the Spanish Bishops Conference, etc ... The least he could do is look for the opposite view, in order to make a better judgment, but it seems to me that he has never read anything by someone who was not opposed to the process of beatification. 
To clarify ideas, I recommend he reads the answer given by Monsignor Angel Suquia, cur­rent president of the Spanish Bishops Conference, in ABC­Madrid on January 7, 1992. 
Father McBrien makes four questions, the first of which concerns the short time lapse between the death of Monsignor Josemarfa Escriva and his beatification. He wonders how it took only 17 years when others have to wait for more than 50. It is no secret for anyone that the Vatican bu­reaucracy works slowly, and the speed of the processes depends on how many people devote their time to move the pa­perwork. 
In this case, because many be­lieved that Monsignor Josemarfa Escriva was a holy person, many helped out, and the process went quickly. Also, as medicine advances, and technology helps to reduce bu­reaucracy, we can expect that the certification of a miracle, and a process of beatification or canonization, will go faster. 
It is a silly misconception that a beatification process has to last for 50 years to be a trustable one. Father McBrien quotes Cardinals Enrique y Tarancon, and Silvio Oddi, as opposing such a quick decision. 
Cardinal Enrique y Tarancon, who has been a controversial figure in the last few years of the Church in Spain, basically has negatively criticized any­thing that is criticizable, and his remarks just follow his usual line, but they are his own opinion, and not the dogma. Father McBrien quotes Cardinal Oddi saying that many bishops are "very displeased with the rush," but doesn't say that 1300 bishops, one third of the world episcopate, signed a petition to open Monsignor J osemarfa Escriva's process of beatification, which is an un­precedented case. 
Father McBrien's second question deals with the people who couldn't testify in the pro­cess. Obviously not everyone could testify because of techni­cal and physical limitations, but the number of witnesses who did were more than enough, and more importantly, both people with positive and nega­tive opinions were left aside. 

It is not fair to give only a list of the witnesses who were con­trary to the process and couldn't testify, as Father McBrien did. Instead he failed to mention any of the favorable ones who couldn't testify. He quotes here among others, the Spanish journalist Lufs Carandell (Not Luis Carandell, as Common Sense printed). well known for his Marxist ideology, for his aversion to the Church, and for his sensationalism. 
Everyone knows that the triv­ial detail of changing Monsignor Josemarfa Escriva's name was due to sentimental reasons towards his family, and nothing else. Anyone familiar with Spanish genealogy knows that there is no real difference between "Escriba" and "Escriva de Balaguer." It is just a mere compound of a family name. That was a cheap article of the type sold by thousands to yellow journalism magazines. If this intends to be a serious article, it is not very serious to quote Luis Carandell. 
Third, Father McBrien won­ders why the process has been so closely linked with Opus Dei. He says that the miracles (They are no longer alleged as they have been of officially declared miracles by the Church, and you as a priest should know that. Father) performed by Monsignor Josemarfa Eseriva were on Opus Dei members. 
This is clearly untrue. For ex­ample, the last, and most im­portant miracle happened to a Carmelite nun from Salainanca in 1979, Sister Concepcion Boullon Rubio, who was not a member of the Work. To what is not true, Father, I call a lie. Father McBrien complains that the miracles were attested by doctors at the Opus Dei University of Navarra. Are you suggesting that they lied? 
Not all of them were Opus Dei members. If you want to make a formal accusation, that's fine, but your remark is offensive, and I don't think you have the right to insult professionals from one of the world's leading medical school just because of where they work. 
Finally, Father McBrien wants to know why "outsiders" have not been allowed by Opus Dei to see the material on which the founder's heroic virtues have been judged. This is incorrect for two reasons: first, if it is true that Opus Dei helped to collect such material, it is the Church itself who administers it, and therefore it is the Church who decides what is valid, what is not, and who can see it. Opus Dei has no say in the matter, and should not be blamed for such administration. 
Second, that the material on Monsignor Josemarfa Escriva's heroic virtues is by no meaning secret, but open to the public. I wonder how anyone can seri­ously claim that the process is "an unprecedented act of se­crecy." Monsignor Josemaria Escriva's process of beatifica­tion has been carried out like one of many others going on everyday without that noise. 
In conclusion, for the part of Father McBrien's article which I am familiar with, I have to say that it is full of misleading information, characterized by inaccuracy, and incorrect­ness.With respect to the part of Father McBrien's article that I am not familiar with, I have no reason to believe this is correct either. 
This is a nonsensical attack against an approved and well respected group of the Church, and against the Church itself, based not on facts, but on ob­scure personal resentments. Instead of trying to misinform people with erroneous "facts," Father McBrien should try to discuss his opinions against Opus Dei. By the way, I am not an Opus Dei member, but this false, nonsense accusation against the truth, bothers me, and insults the honor of many. 
Jose Maria Castro Ceron Dillon Hall Apri127, 1992 


--~----------~--~----------------------~---~--~ 
Accent 
page 10 Wednesday, April 29, 1992 
John O'Brien 
Rockne's Lovechild 
Senior says 
goodbyes are 
never easy
('('w 
e sound like alums already." 
AAAHHH! She said the A­
word, he thought to himself. 
He was out for Big Beers at 
Macri's with a group of friends 
when their reminiscence caused her to use the 
A-word. 
True, they all had been getting a little sappy, 
trying to remember all of the good times they 
had together, but why did she have to remind 
everyone of graduation? 
lie, in particular, wanted only to think about 
the past. The future, because of all the uncer­
tainty it held, had b11come an f-word in and of 
itself. 
The past, he thought, sure had its moments. 
Like freshman year when Beef, his roommate of 
all of two days, fell off the top bunk, knocked 
everything off of both their desks, and then got 
stuck in the corner like a bug on its back-now 
that was a good memory. 
Four years of living together later, his image 
of Beef had improved, but he still laughed when 
he thought of those early days. 
He smiled when he thought of Rich and Tim. When he first met them four years earlier, they were cocky and obnoxious. Now, at the end of his senior year, they were still cocky and ob­noxious, but somewhere they had picked up sensitivity and senses of humor. 
There were some bad times too, he realized. There were the times when he should have been enjoying his youth, but was instead going to funerals of friends, comforting grieving friends, or sharing grief with the rest of the campus. 
Then there were the bittersweet memories of 
friends when they left Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's. Sure, they had moved on to better 
things, but they left him behind in the process. 
A sadness fell over him as he thought of all those people he would soon be leaving behind. 
Those he loved-sure, he would see them again, but not as much as he would like. He thought of Kelley, and Karen, and Christine, and all of the "Lyons Babes." He had known them for what seemed like forever, and he would certainly miss them a Jot. 
The people he worked with would always be with him, too. He had spent late hours with them, he had hung out with them, he even went to Student Affairs with a few of them-he would miss them, too, he thought. 
Then there was the friends he had met only recently-while their time together was short, they meant a Jot to him. His neighbors in the "most fined and most closely watched breeze­way in Campus View," the Titans, Colleen-their effect on him in such a short time was amazing, he thought. 
He thought of all the other seniors like him who were leaving this place. His thoughts went back to the the A-word. 
What would it mean to be an alum of this place? Would he be bald, fat and loud? Looking at himself. he thought how he was already all three of those. 
No, he thought, being an alum would mean more than football games and Notre Dame Club functions. 
Being an alum would mean taking all of the good and the bad from those four years and never forgetting it. If those four years were supposed to be the best four years of his life, why give them up? 
Then and there he decided. He would never forget the people that made this place what it was to him. Saying goodbye, he thought, is never forever, and, just as the song said, a lifetime is not too long to live as friends. 
"So long, everybody, it's been a blast," he said. 
John O'Brien is Accent Editor emeritus ofThe Observer. His columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 
ss 

Juday's atholic student 
Student group devoted to discussing current issues, hopes to increase membership next year 
By JIM BONALSKY 
Accent Writer 
Many clubs and organizations are available for Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. These clubs have several objectives, some of which specialize in bringing together students who hold similar interests. 
Some of these include the International Student Organization and the Rugby Club. Others are centered around helping students overcome personal problems. They can help you deal with everything from adjusting to Jiving in the dorm to assisting you overcome an addiction to Zaxxon. 
The great number of clubs that exist at Notre Dame can be very beneficial to the people here but at the same time can be very confusing to know exactly what is available for the students. 
Aside from stumbling upon a table in the JACC on Activities Night, there are few occasions when students have the opportunity to learn about the many diverse clubs in existence. 
Another problem which adds to the confusion of finding out about the clubs is the difficulty of posting the dates, times and locations of all club meetings. 
These obstacles make it difficult for some clubs to make themselves known to the student body. One of these organizations is called the National Association of Students at Catholic Colleges and Universities (NASCCU). 
The four-year old group has a membership tally of twenty-five and its leaders admit that their name is not the most familiar on campus.­
Nationally, NASCCU is a student­run organization that is joined with 250 other Catholic Colleges and Universities. It fosters an environment where students can come together and voice their concerns on issues, though not necessarily focusing on solely Catholic ones. 
Joe Cataldo, a member of the Executive Board of the national council, said that the group would like to gain increased membership in the future. 
"We hope we will have more members next year," he said. 
When talking to the general public, it becomes apparent that NASCCU has a way to go before they achieve the name recognition it deserves. 
Every year the Association holds a national conference where the members discuss a certain aspect of concern. Last year's topic dealt with the issue of whether students at Catholic Universities should be required to do service projects in order to graduate. 
While discussing this subject, members have the opportunity to look at existing programs at other schools and gain outside perspectives as well. According to Cataldo, the process is similar to "a big brainstorming session." 
The first national convention of NASCCU took place at Notre Dame three years ago and was held here again this year. Notre Dame has the best accommodations for the conferences and because of this, the national conference will be held here again next year, when the topic will be cultural diversity, Cataldo said. 
In order to promote their organization around campus, NASCCU will sponsor a National Issues Forum next year. This forum will involve the discussion of three alternatives to a national problem, such as abortion, and then talk about the pros and cons of each. In the end, the group will reach a final decision. 
"We limit the alternatives to three in order to conserve time," Cataldo said. "The conference is only three days long (it will be four days next year) and you could talk about an issue like abortion for weeks. With only three alternatives, we are able to arrive at some conclusion by the end of the conference." 
"Since cultural diversity is such a big issue on campus," he said, "I think many students will want to take advantage of a forum where they can discuss it in an intellectual manner rather than in a merely emotional way." 
To obtain more information about NASCCU, contact executive members Joe Cataldo or Martha Marzolf. 
Accent

Wednesday, April 29, 1992 page 11 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Editor's note: In light of the Pennsylvania case being decided by the United States Supreme Court and the national attention focused on the issue of abortion, The Observer wanted to present two personal accounts of abortion from the perspective of two NDISMC students. The names have been changed to protect the privacy of these women. 
I never thought it would happen to me. 
But it did. 
I got pregnant. And I had an abortion. 
Karen, not her real name, had just turned 17 when she went to the doctor because she was "feeling funny." She remembered the doctor informing her Catholic and Episcopalian parents, "We have a slight problem here, your daughter is pregnant." 
The Notre Dame junior knew her boyfriend would not support the pregnancy and that she couldn't accept the responsibility. Karen's boyfriend "dropped off the face of the earth after (he) found out." He had been out of town for the weekend and Karen had the abortion three days after finding out she was pregnant. 
Telling him was difficult, she said. She explained that when she told him she was pregnant he acted proud of himself and said, "This is one of the greatest things that ever happened." Then Karen told him she already aborted it. "That did it in for him," she said. 
"He really wasn't a good person," she said. "Looking back I realize how much he took advantage of me-he was in it for something else." 
She said she is sure he would not have supported her if she had carried her baby to term. Her parents trusted she would make the right decision and they vowed to honor her choice, she explained. 
Karen said she didn't like being awake during the abortion. "It hurt. It was the most emotionally painful experience," she reflected. "The actual lying on that table, staring at the ceiling." 
Tears and self-blame characterized the procedure for Karen. She described the actual experience as "taking every emotion you've ever had and putting it into a little cup." 
Karen's father accompanied her on the 100 mile drive to the abortion clinic. "The thing that hit me were the people on the side of the road. (The protests) were not exactly designed to make you feel good about yourself," she remembered. The 20 demonstrators carried signs and escorts met her at the car to protect her path to the clinic. 
Karen was amazed at the number 
of "little girls" about 12 or 13 years­
old in the clinic as well as a few 
women between 45 and 50 years­
old. "Everyone was quiet and 
nervous," she said 
Karen remembers filling out forms and having another pregnancy test "to be sure" and a sonogram. She passed the legal 12th week rule, after which abortions cannot be perfomed, by only two weeks. 
"A very nice lady went through all the options very carefully, and told me about adoption," Karen said. Karen was impressed by the counseling sessions because "they wanted to make sure they weren't being coerced by husbands or boyfriends." The counselors advocated using two forms of birth control and made all the women promise to use some form. 


Their story 
Two ND!SMC students recount the painful experience of abortion 
After the abortion, "they don't want to see you again," she em­phasized. 
Her counselors talked about when life begins in the womb, gave medical facts, and encouraged the women to talk about their feelings in group discussions. "My reasons? Some were selfish because I didn't want to have my life interrupted. If I had it I would've given it up for adoption, (but) I knew I had caused my family a great deal of trauma in the first place," she explained. 
Karen said her doctor didn't have a good bedside manner during the prodedure. She was left in a slightly darkened room after the procedure to recover with six other women. She ate four cookies and drank two glasses of water and took painkillers. 
The nurse gave her birth control pills after she felt comfortable walking. Karen took them for nine months even though she wasn't sexually active. 
The abortion has not been brought up with anyone since it happened. "My parents were trying to respect my privacy, it was never brought up," she said. "I will talk to Mom (about it) someday." 
Karen was relieved to see a pie chart in The Observer revealing that 48 percent of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are pro-choice. "Until then I felt isolated," she said. 
She expressed concern for what her friends or boyfriend would think if they knew or what would happen if she ran for a public office. "I guess people talk about skeletons in closets-1 have a pretty big one," she confessed. 
Karen doesn't harbor any regrets. She says women who haven't been pregnant have no frame of reference. "I wish they could understand what it's like to be pregnant at 17. I was salutatorian, first chair flute, in National Honor Society, science club, president of trivia club, active in church... all I could see was my whole life falling apart," she said. 
Rachel and her boyfriend used protection. What they would do in the event of an accidental pregnancy wasn't discussed between them. Four months ago Rachel decided to have an abortion. 
The Saint Mary's sophomore was on Christmas vacation when she took a home pregnancy test. A family planning clinic confirmed her worst fear. 
"I had originally planned to take care of it myself-now I realize that I needed my boyfriend for support," she said. "I couldn't tell my parents-no way. My family is really hard-core Catholics and we never discussed subjects like sex and birth control." 
Rachel and her boyfriend drove to a clinic in Chicago an hour away after returning to school in January. They told their friends they were going on a trip. She was ten and a half weeks pregnant and "scared shitless." The car could break down, there might be complications during the procedure...anything could happen, she worried. 
The two avoided talk of abortion in the car. Instead, they created a story to tell their friends about what they did all day. 
It was 9:30 a.m. when they arrived at the quiet clinic. Inside, Rachel found women of all ages packed into the waiting room. "There weren't a lot of guys there-my boyfriend and I thought that was pathetic," she said. "I told him I'm so lucky to have him." 
After a half-hour stay in the waiting room, Rachel was called in for blood pressure, weight, and a blood sample. Then the nurse sent her back to the waiting room until 
10:45 a.m. 
An hour-long group session followed with four other women where the procedure was explained, questions answered, and instruments shown. Rachel sat in the waiting room again for an hour and a half. 
At about 1:15 p.m., the procedure was all over for Rachel. The instruments were shut off, the nurse cleaned her up, and she was told to get dressed and lie down in the recovery room. She munched on cookies and drank pop to regain some energy. "I felt numb, dizzy and still nervous," she said. "I kept repeating to myself, it's all over, it's all over." 
Her boyfriend was then called in. "He started crying, I started crying-we both cried for a half an hour." 
The nurse gave her a list of do's and don'ts to follow for recovery. No baths for three weeks, no drinking alcohol for 24 hours, no exercise for three weeks, take aspirin for soreness, expect bleeding for a few days. After her blood pressure was taken, Rachel and her boyfriend left the clinic with a complimentary packet of birth control. 
It was 2:30p.m. 
The next day, Rachel felt "drained." Instead of going to church, she fell asleep, thereby angering her boyfriend. He was ready to talk about it. She wanted to rest. 
"At midnight, he wouldn't talk to me," she remembered. "He went into the lounge, and that's when the whole thing hit him." He cried for two hours and repeatedly blamed himself for the conception, asking Rachel why she doesn't leave him. 
The reality hit Rachel later, she said. For the past two months, newspaper articles and demon­strations have plagued her every day. "(My boyfriend) supports me, and he listens, but there's nothing he can do," Rachel said. She said she feels alone and thinks that there is no counseling available on campus for women who have had abortions. 
Although Rachel said she has no regrets about having an abortion, she is despondent about the lack of options. "For me, there was no other solution. What I regret is that that was our baby," she said, explaining that she and her boyfriend plan to get married later and do want to have children. 
No matter how much counseling 
Rachel receives, she said she is not 
optimistic about ever being able to 
put the experience totally behind 
her. The summer will bring a 
haunting date to mind: 
"August 7th is when my baby was 
due." 

·~-----~---------­
Accent
page 12 Wednesday, April 29, 1992 

As the school year comes to a close, some tips to avoid campus theft 
By BILL FEKRAT 
Accent Writer 
With finals looming ahead, no one needs the additional stress of being a victim of theft. Thefts from dorms, offices, and other public buildings have been a growing problem on campus this year, but with conscious effort on the part of students and faculty, this type of crime can be reduced considerably. 
"Most larceny on campus is a crime of opportunity," said Rex Rakow, Notre Dame security director. "Most of the cases (at Notre Dame) are the result of people leaving things laying around in public places." 
The places with the highest number of thefts reported are the J .A. C. C. with 51, the bookstore with 49 (most of which are shoplifting cases), the Hesburgh Library with 36, LaFortune with 26, and South Dining Hall, North Dining Hall, and the Rockne Gym rounding out the top of the list. 
Overall this academic year, there have been 76 more reported larcenies than last year, bringing the current total to 636. Only one of these cases was cited as "breaking and entering". 
Most of the reported cases of theft involve personal belongings being left unattended. Equipment left lying around outside racquetball courts, bicycles left outside that are unlocked or have locks that are easily broken, and bookbags left on tables in the library or in the lobbies of the dining halls are easy targets for thieves. 
Early in the year, freshman David Bregande had his bookbag stolen from the lobby of South Dining Hall. 

"I lost seventy dollars worth of books and a thirty-dollar calculator," he said. 
He said that as a result, he is more careful about his personal belongings. "Now, I don't leave my stuff anywhere," he said. "I always make sure to carry it with me." 
Thefts in dorms have also been a problem, especially among the larger buildings. Because of their size, Flanner and Grace have had the largest number of incidents. 
"Most of our problems occurred early in the year," said Father William Seetch, rector of Flanner Hall. "Once we started locking the doors twenty-four hours the thefts decreased significantly. 
"One of our assistant rectors is from Philadelphia," he said, "and he couldn't get over how trusting people are here, which is good, but it can cause these kinds of problems." 
For its part, Notre Dame security tries to watch who comes and goes from campus in order to protect students, 
Top number or reported 
thefts per building last year 
JACC  51  
Hammes Bkstore  49  
Flanner  35  
Grace  33  
Hesburgh Library  36  
LaFortune  26  
SDH  21  
NDH  17  
Rockne  17  

Rakow said. 

"We take immediate action 
when people are seen roaming 
around in dorms or offices 
who don't seem to have any 
business there... " he said. 
"We've made 10-12 arrests 
this year for repeat 
trespassers." 

In the future, Security hopes that a Detex system, like the one presently used for women's dorms, will be installed for all dorms, Rakow said. 
This is the time of year when thefts are most likely to occur, Rakow said. While studying for finals, students are less likely to guard their personal belongings when studying. Because bookstores are buying many used books, it is easier for thieves to resell what they steal. 
While losing books so close to finals is a problem, it is also important to closely guard items that are harder to replace. Checkbooks and credit cards are a great hassle to replace when stolen. Also, students often carry class notes, papers, and computer disks in bookbags and leave them unattended. 
Rakow recalled, "We had one graduate student who had his backpack stolen and lost his computer disk and all his notes for his doctoral thesis." 
The most effective measures that can be taken to prevent crime on campus must come from personal initiative. Never leave bookbags or other belongings lying around where you can't see them, always lock your dorm room when you leave; and use a U-bolt bicycle lock when you leave your bike outside, said Rakow. 

Brian, Colin and Vince offer a new musical flair to campus 
• 
By JACK WALTON 
Accent Writer 
Brian, Colin & Vince, the acoustic trio from Morrissey Hall, have just released a tape of 30 original songs. 
Through their appearances at Club 23, Grace's Coffeehouse, the NAZZ battle of the bands, and other occasions, they have built up quite a following, and the tape­only "Just Trying to Help" is the document of their semester's work. 
The production of the group's first release, "Just Trying to Help" is the first step in their musical careers, band members said. The next step will come in the fall, when they plan to tour several Midwestern colleges in a folksinger van. 
Who musically influences them? Sebadoh? Daniel Johnston? Paul McCartney? Nope, they are more influenced by Pez, wacky sports blooper videos, and assorted cheeses, they said. One of the band members hinted that their new direction will be a World Beat/ Bruce Lee/ Sioux Indian mixture with a reggae feel. 

Brian, Colin & Vince's music makes the audience realize how comical and ridiculous many aspects of life are. For example, the tape juxtaposes Colin's "Shot in the Leg," a funny song about histrionic romantic gibberish and Brian's "Space Between the Stars," a poignant, glorious exercise in goon epistemology. Listening to these songs brings on an exhilarating sense of both embarassment and self­affirmation, one band member said. 
Their audiences respond with great sympathy and laughter to many of these songs. The crowd always whoops and hollers throughout their entire show, especially during "Rock-n-Roll Disaster" and "Crunchy Lunch." 
"Just Trying to Help" is not at all a bad title. Brian, Colin and Vince's songs take an edge ofT of some pretty harrowing experiences that we all share. They make life seem just a little less drab and ordinary, they said. 
The song "Wizards" makes the point that "if you are not happy with something, then these wizards will help you." 
The tape can be purchased for $3 from Brian Muller, Colin, or Vince Buonaccorsi, and also at all of their performances. 
Brian, Colin & Vince will be opening for the Sister Chain tonight at the Saint Mary's Coffeehouse at 10 p.m. 

The group's latest album cover. 


Monday, April 28, 1992 The Observer page 13 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
$350.00/ DAY PROCESSING Need Graduation Tickets BADLY -4 Bedrm house for summer. CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED SPOC -WATCH OUT FOR THE PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL Will Pay BIG$. Ask for T.Rog at Furnished, less than 1/2 mile TREES!! GOOD LUCK! LOVENOTICES YOU. NO EXPERIENCE 288-7341 from campus, safe neighborhd. 89 MERCEDES ......... $200 MOM, DAD, DIANE, CHRIS AND 
NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. Cheap rent! AGNES x2769 86 VW. ......................$ 50 COLIN WORD PROCESSING Need Rider to FL. after 87 MERCEDES ......... $! 00 256-6657 THE ASSOCIATES senior week -must drive Attention bisexual women 65 MUSTANG ........... $ 50 ATTENTION SUMMER 
TEMPORARY POSITION: stick. Barbara X5099 (and other interested parties): STUDENTS: $$ FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-Sat Turtle Creek sublet available. Call Choose from thousands starting VITO'S BARBER SHOP Pandora's Books MARKETING RESEARCH Rian @ X 1209 for details. $25. 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST corner of ND ave & Howard ANAtYST -Proficient in Paradox, FOR RENT FREE 24-Hour Recording Reveals 233-4767 reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday Lotus and Multi Mate. Responsible Kicked off campus? Sexually Giveaway Prices. 
for developing and analyzing BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY harrassed by your roommate for the 801-379-2929 HAIRCUTS: $5.50 Allegro statistical reports. 219-291-7153. 1992-93 school year? Three Copyright #IN11 KJC. Please call (219) 271-6342 to (adjective) guys are looking for a Anyone going to be in A contemporary cafe with a schedule an interview. 2 Bedroom Turtle Creek roommate. Call Chris 88 Mazda 323, 4spd, AC, EC, 22K Durham, NC next year? 
touch of the old world. Walk to Campus @ X1088 if you need us as much as mil Hundreds below blue book! Jim Looking for a roommate. Located in the lower level of NO PROFESSOR & GRAD. $390 Month we need you. We've been Philled! W239-6064/H273-9059 Call Amy X2860 LaFortune Hall. Open 24 hours a STUDENT NEED BABYSITTER 232 3616 day thru Thursday 5/7. FOR FALL FOR 2 CHILDREN, RENT 1 BDRM APT nr ND ALASKA JOBS THE WASHINGTON D.C. CLUB 
2-1/2 YRS. & 6 MOS., IN OUR New condo available mid-May $250+util.,dep. 287-7039. $1000+/wk, room, board, airfare. "GOING HOME TRUCK" Mary Kay Skin Care HOME WHILE WE ARE WORKING thru mid-August. COMPLETELY Now hiring. (503) 754-6051 ext. 8. -PICKUP­Call 299-0551 wknds or THERE. 10-20 HRS./WK. CALL furnished, incl-FURNISHED ROOM, KITCHEN, THURSDAY, MAY 7(1-5PM) after 4:00 wkdys 233-6901. $5/HR. uding linen, towels, and dishes. 2 AIR, PRIVATE ENTRANCE, 5 MIN. 1 hideaway couch-$75 FRIDAY, MAY 8(1-5PM) 
bedrooms, 2 baths. N. CAMPUS. 272-0615. 1 cot. table-$5 AT STEPAN AND LYONS TYPING AVAILABLE Going to Chicago after graduation? Walking distance to ND campus. 1 cushion chair-$10 BASKETBALL COURTS 287-4082. Me too! Looking for female non-smk Call Kathleen -277-Turtle Creek Apartment 277-4491 -DROP OFF­
roommate(s). Karen 2770 1709. available for summer SUNDAY, MAY 10(12-6PM) Typing FOR SALE: '85 ISUZU I-MARK. AT MONTGOMERY MALL Pickup & Delivery BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR 3 SUMMER SUBLET Furnished -A/C -2 bedrooms Ex. Condo, sunrf, Needs clutch QUESTIONS?? 277-7406 CHILDREN DURING SUMMER. $1,200, O.B.O. -283-4903. CALL PAT #3597 
FULL-TIME, NON-SMOKING, AND TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE $450/month or make offer TEXAS: I'm driving home for the RELIABLE. OWN FOR RENT OVER SUMMER. TWO FREE SUMMER FLA. VACATION summer to Austin and I don't want TRANSPORTATION A MUST. BEDROOMS, ONE AND ONE call Mark 271-1578 TICKETS If you are male and under 23 to do it alone. Want to help, call Bill GOOD SWIMMER PREFERRED. HALF BATHS, FENCED IN PATIO, yrs. old, write for details to: x4274 PLEASE CONTACT MICHELE LARGE LIVING AREA, WALKING Room to rent over summer in Turtle Extended Catholic family Mark P.O. Box 14288 Jack­
AFTER 5:30 AT 277-5374. DISTANCE TO CAMPUS. Creek. Share with MBA student.Apt. from NJ. Need as many GRAD sonville, Fla. 32238 Attention Notre Dame I SMC CALL ERIC X1392 fully furnished, will need a bed. TIX as humanly possible. NEW JERSEY students: ALL NEW IN '92! CALL BRYAN or BRENNAN $240 pm. Ph. 273 2302 ask for Call Teresa x2899 to haggle Michael.you are definitely the Luggage Truck loading on Distribute bumper stickers and T­Xt376 Geoff. sweetest!!!!llll!!!!ll! Love, Thurs. May 7 6:00-8:00 pm shirts. Help America and your CALL KEN X1385 PLEASE! Desparately need 1 grad Renee Fri. May 8 12:30-2:30 pm wallet. Call 1 -800-584-0757 nights LOOKY! LOOKY! LOOKY! tick. for my Grandma-277-4491. all loading at Stepan or weekends. Summer Sublet JUST CHILLIN' Pick up Sun May 10 Furnished 2 Bedroom HANG BY THE POOL NEXT TO Need 1or2 grad tix. Let's make a Congratulations on making the Final Morris Plains 9:30-11 :30 am WANTED 272-9817 CONCRETE TURTLES! deal. Ron 3315, leave message. Four. You guys are the greatest! CBA 2:30-4:30 pm STATIONERY EXERCISE BIKE CHEAP-CHEAP-CHEAP Good luck in the future. ?'s call Matt VanderGoot STAIR CUMBER Share 2Br house with M Grad TOWNHOUSE READY FOR YOU One way plane tic. KMac x 1756 or COUNTRY SKI M/C OR NORD lAC Student. Laundry, Garage, Garden, TO SUBLET THIS SUMMER SB to Denver -May 9 
Keith McKeon x 4070 TRACK Porch, Air Cond. Avail May 1. $260 CHEAP-CHEAP-CHEAP $80 Brian 287-5987 Listerman-Have a great 21st BOOK CASE AND VCR plus phone. 288-3878. CALL NOW #3414, 3439, OR 2668 birthday. As my high school English 8562/288-0730evenings NEED GRAD. TIX -cALL 277-teacher always said, 
LOST/FOUND 
ATTRACTIVE STUDIO'S IN THOSE NUMBERS AGAIN 1958 "Stay safe, stay sober, and stay out WANTED: Female roommate to LOVELY OLD VICTORIAN BLDG. #3414-PETE of trouble.· (NOT!) 
Lost: thin gold bracelet help with off-campus rent for NEAR N.D. 225-300/MO. CALL #3439-STAN I NEED GRAD TIX! Happy birthday, party girl. between North Dining Hall summer school, June 22-August 8. 2879634 FOR SUMMER AND FALL #2668-KATE call273-9316 !!! Section 4B and Knott or Knott and If interested call RENTALS. TURTLE CREEK SUMMER Grace-sentimental value­X1502 BULLS PLAYOFF TICKETS ATTENTION ALL OVERLY if found please call x4914. ONE WEEK TIME SHARE. Home Game 7 FLIRTATIOUS 
SENIORS RENT $700 USA, $800 OTHER. FOR SALE 1167 Kyle BIRTHDAY DOGS NAMED BOB LOST-gold ring with black stone Want to sell your bicycle 60-90 DAYS NOTICE DON'T FORGET TO READ THE encircled by white rhinestones; lost rather than take it home? USE BY AUGUST 8 INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 2 Grad tix needed big $ PAPER TOMORROW BEFORE in restroom of North Dining Hall Call 239-5335 and ask for 616-435-5805. Good rates. Save Money. Call me call Bob at 277-8491 thanx YOU DESERT ME FOR DORTHY 
Walt. for a quote 9:30-6:00, AND TOTO!!! EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE HOUSE FOR RENT 289-1993. Office near campus. Please Help! please call Elizabeth x1918 Moving to Chicago area? '91 grad in $150/mo. Call Paul 287-2159. I need one Grad. Tix. SISTER CHAIN AT CLUB 23­
western suburb looking for roomate. ATTENTION PANGBORN Will pay top dollar. SATURDAY NIGHT!! I' LOST NO STARTER JACKET AT Call Don 708-629-3608. SUMMER SUBLET: TURTLE CK FEMALES -1 YEAR NEW Call Nick @ 271-01 04 SR. BAR ON 4/23. DID YOU GRAB NEED 3RD ROOMATE X4070 2 PERSON LOFT hey nil THE WRONG ONE? LAUNDRY CUTE BLONDE NEEDS HELP TO SEE CALL X2341 HELP!!! I need one grad. tix TAG IN JACKET WITH LAST DRIVING HER COOL PINK CAR 2 bedroom Turtle Creek Townhouse Please call pat @ 271-0835 STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA NAME "ABBATE" AND NUMBER TO MD/WASH. DC AREA -sublet during summer months FURNITURE FOR SALE money no object! Info on semester, year, graduate, "80001". CALL TONY@ 277-6048. ON 5/17. CALL MOLLIE 4999. Best Offer-x4073 Beds, Couches and More summer and internship programs in 
CHEAP Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and LOST Sun. 26 April at Huddle: A Palace Laundry is looking for a WANTED: 3 FEMALE STUDENTS Call 277-361 0 PERSONAL Melbourne. Programs start at blue PHIL 244 notebook with rny drummer for next year. If FOR LG. HOME. $200/MO. PER $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. name, room number and phone interested, call Tim at xt 075 and ROOM. LOTS OF AMENITIES. airline ticket from SB to NWK number on it. My notes stink, but if leave message. We would like to YOU STUDY WHILE I TRAVEL & (0/W) on 5/18 (Male). Call 288-Help Me, Please The Lizard King lives on! Down with you really want them I'll make you a audition this week. ENJOY THE UTOPIAN LIFE. CALL 9806. the Crustaceans! copy and pay for it too. I just want FOR APPT. PAUL 232-2794. I need graduation tickets if anyone to be able to get a decent grade on MOVING TO SAN FRANCISCO??? Airline ticket from South Bend to has some they are not going to use. to the athletic dept.: the final -please have a heart and if HEY, all you party animals, the Newark, NJ on 5/9 Call Quinn at x2059 if you have any your time is gonna come you found my notebook call 4911. I AM LOOKING FOR SOMEONE FRAT HOUSE is available for the also selling bedroom dresser info. -led zeppelin No questions will be asked!!!! TO SHARE AN APT. WITH IN THE year 92-93. Make it the best year of Michae\277-2151 
BAY AREA. your life. Call 272-5509. please, help me to the star chamber under the LOST: SET OF KEYS WITH N.D. dome: BRASS KEYRING AND HONDA TOM X1762 S U M M E R I N S. B . ? Round trip, nonrefundable air Meg, !yin', cheating', hurtin', that's all you CAR KEY AT STEPAN COURTS tix-CHICAGO to JUNEAU, * FRIENDS FOREVER* seem to do ON SUN. PLEASE CALL PETE AT STUDENT COMPANIONS sublet the newest, largest, ALASKA leave Chicago on 5-24, AND -led zeppelin 287-9258. NEEDED FOR PRESCHOOLER 1-1/2 bath, most energy returns on 5-31 , 617$ value for *LOVE YOU ALWAYS I* 
WITH SPECIAL NEEDS -for next efficient 2-bed appart. @ ONLY 400$! call312-988-7964-Love, HOW WOULD I DESCRIBE FOUR LOST...SILVER CHAIN-LINK year and possibly summer. Turtle Creek-for the same price of leave message. LandM YEARS UNDER THE MALLOY BRACLET. Somewhere btwn. Frat Involves taking child into community the other 2-bd. appt. ADMINISTRATION? House.Bridget's,&main circle on the to work on social and X2447 Selling contents of off-campus apt., WHOOPS! Is "Our Baby" growing in "DRIVES ME INSANE, TROUBLE'S Wed. before Easter(4/15). GREAT communication skills. Must have CLEARLY THE BEST CHOICE vcr, beds, couches and more. your tummy by accident? Loving GONNA COME TO YOU"-LED sent. value! $$ Anne X2580 car and be free some afternoogs. Call273-1814 for specifics. doctor and his stay at home wife ZEPPELIN 
Stipend and training provided 288-Near N.D. quaint,clean would like to discuss Baby's future LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST IIIII 7026 furnished apts. Studio-$230 For sale: Racing Bike with many with you. Please call us collect ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS 
1 Bedroom-$260, deposit, accessories. Total retail $1100. anytime. (219) 462-5250. Debra A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS A Gold Claddaugh Ring. Need transportation back to references 1-800-582-9320 Asking $350 or best offer. X3718 and Michael. A BABY! Young financially secure Somewhere between: Madison, New Jersey area? call Catholic couple looking to adopt PW and Keenan/Stanford 287-8421. 705 N.D. Ave. 3 bedroom available ATTENTION STUDENTS MOVING Alicia .... and provide a loving home to an 
and for summer sublet, fall semester. OFF CAMPUS!! Double bed for infant. All Expenses paid. Please PW and Lafortune SUMMER JOBS AVAILABLE IN $475.00 Call234-8200. sale. Bought last year at the super WANTED: A rational explanation for call collect (317) 364-0300 for more 
YOUR HOME TOWN! Work Corps sale. $100. Call Bill at 272-6189 the termination of the NO wrestling information. Please, this ring has great is looking for hard working and YOU STILL HAVE A CHANCE TO program. Must be logical, coherent, sentimental value. If you find it motivated students to manage their SUBLET FOR THE SUMMER!! For Sale: '91 Geo Metro XFI, TRUE and must not make the ADOPTION please call X2873 and ask for Mary own summer business. Earn up to SLEEP CHEAP AT THE 'CREEK! Excellent gas mileage, 5 speed university look like a bunch of Childless, Christian, Couple wishes Jo. $10, 000 for more information, CALL#3414 STD, 23,000 miles. $5500. Call money-hungry idiots. If you can help to adopt. Legal and medical paid. 
please call 1-800-238-3254. 277-4878. us out, call Athletic Czar DICK Call Bill and Kathy, Collect, at 219­FOUND: A blue Eddie Bauer HOUSES FOR RENT 92-93 Rosenthal at his toll-free number 1-322-8187. windbreaker on 2nd floor of ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT 4 56 BDRMS FULLY FURNISHED 800-GET-CLUE. Stanford. Call Dan-X2067 to claim -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. SECURITY SYSTEMS HEY YOU! P.S. What team is next on the list? I am a worm, slowly and surely it. Free transportation! Roorn & Board! WASHERS/DRYERS sinking deeper into the bowels of 
Over 8,000 openings. No 287-4989 We have all the furniture and U P S on CAMPUS the earth, putting more desolation Lost-silver key ring with three keys experience necessary. Male or apartment stuff you could possibly between me and the universe between Knott and Female. For employment program want. The latest in car interior We don't miss a day! Ship SlEds on Sat night. Call Pete call Student Employment Services SIX EFFICIENCY APTS. IN BLDG. couches and Oriental settings. your stuff home now and Take time to smell the roses I Apply att698. at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597. NEAR N.D. WILL RENT We're looking to unload this relax during Finals Week. for a position at Irish Gardens 
INDIVIDUALLY OR 30R MORE AT merchandise so price is negotiable. today! Applications available at the Female roommate needed for A DISCOUNTED RATE We're at Castle Point so if you're M-F 12-5 Sat. 11-2 store, due Wed. 4129
WANTED 
Williamsburg Apt. June 1st $234.50. CALL2879624 thinking of moving there look us up. 
Call 258-5702 Call HENRY or THUY @ 272-9326 239-6714 Allegro Even though MR. BUSH is speaking anytime and leave a message if at at graduation, my aunt still wants to SALES PERSON WANTED FOR "Our Old House" we're not in. THE COUNTRY HARVESTER Now open 24 hours a day thru come. Please help her out;Sell me a Michigan Bed and Breakfast. 35 lower level LaFortune exam week! graduation ticket. Call x4233 FOOD VENDING CART ON THE Mins. from Campus. (616) CALL US! 
WEEKENDS. LOCATION WILL BE 435-5365. For sale: Pair of 100 watt Sony MONEY TO LOAN MOVING TO LA? ON THE EAST RACE. GREAT Buy a cheap airline ticket to the speakers. Personal -Business I'm looking for roommates to live SUMMER INCOME. MUST BE A riverfront sharp horne and Emerald City, Seattle. Call x1563 1-800-238-9755 near Manhattan Beach after OUTGOING. CALL RICK AT 288-apartment for rent weekends or Fly from South Bend to Seattle on Open 7 days 9a.m.-!Op.m. graduation. 1454, WEEKDAYS. 273-0900 short terms. 219-257-9101/219-United May 19. My aunt dated George Bush and Bryan Reed. Phone# 713-699­CALL JULIE x1342 NIGHTS AND WEEKENDS. 291-6100. $150 OBO. Call Tom at 271-0571. now she wants grad tix! x41 08 2494. 
see CLASS/ page 17 

_j 
--------------------------------------------------------------. 

TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 
Amerlcen League 
TEXAS RANGERs-Placed Brian Bohanon. 
pitcher, on the 15-day disabled list. 
Recalled Roger Pavlik, pitcher, lrom 
Oklahoma City ol the American Association. 
National League 
CINCINNATI REDS-Placed Glenn Braggs, 
outllelder, on the 15-day disabled lls1. 
retroactive to April 20. Designated Rick 
Wrona, catcher, tor assignment. Recalled 
Jell Branson, infielder, lrom Nashville. ol 
the American Association. Purchased the 
contract ol Troy Alenlr, catcher, !rom 
Nashville. 
FWTBALL 
National Football League 
CINCINNATI BENGALs-51gned Milt Stegall, Larry Pins and Mark Benson. wide receivers: K1mble Wngh1, defensive end; Pete Harris, linebacker: and Marcus Sh1pp, safety. 
DALLAS COWBOYS-Agreed to terms with Mtchael Beasley. running back: Swill Burch, delens1ve lineman; Melvin Evans, guard; Pan Evans. tight end-tackle; Harold Heath, tight end; Michael James, defensive back; and Tarry Tilton, linebacker. 
DETROIT LIONs-Signed Regg1e McGill, runn1ng back. and Rodney Rice. defensive back. 
GREEN BAY PACKERS-Waived Blatr K1el, Quarterback. COLLEGE 
FLORIDA-Announced the relirem"nt of Ernestine Weaver, women's gymnastiCS coach. 
IOWA STATE-Named Theresa decker women's basketball coach. 
On Top 
continued from page 20 
don't believe me. listen to them. 
"First we went to the Blue­Gold game and it was cool for like the first five minutes, but then it was really long and bor­ing. But afterwards we went 
NHL STANDINGS 
DIVISION SEMIFINALS (Best-ol-7) Walea Conference Patrick Dlvlalon New Jeraey va. N.Y. Rangers Sunday, April 19 
N.Y. Rangers 2, New Jersey 1 Tuesday, April 2t New Jersey 7, N.Y. Rangers 3 Thursday, April 23 
New Jersey 3, N.Y. Rangers 1 Saturday, April 25 
N.Y. Rangers 3, New Jersey 0 
Monday, April 27 

N.Y. Rangers e. New Jersey 5, N.Y. Rangers lead series 3-2 
Wednesday, April 29 

N.Y. Rangers at New Jersey, 7:35p.m.Friday. May 1 New Jersey at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m.. ,1 necessary Plttaburgh va. Waahinglon Sunday, April t9 Washington 3, Pittsburgh 1 Tuesday, April 21 Washington 6, Pittsburgh 2 Thursday. April 23 Pittsburgh 6, Washington 4 Saturday, April 25 Washington 7, Pittsburgh 2 Monday, April 27 Pillsburgh 5, Washington 2. Washington leads series 3-2 Wednesday, April 29 Washington at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m. Friday, May 1 
Pittsburgh at Washington, 7:35 p.m., t! necessary 
Adams Divieion 
Hartford va. Montreal Sunday, April t9 '-'ontreal 2, Hartford 0 

Tuesday, April 21 Montreal 5, Hartford 2 Thursday, April 23 Hart1ord 5, Monlrea\ 2 Saturday, April 25 Hartford 3, Montreal 1 Monday, April 27 Montreal 7, Harttord 4, Montreal leads series 3-2 Wednesday, April 29 Montreal at Hartford, 7:35 p.m. Friday, May 1 Hartford at Montreal, 7:35 p.m .. il 
~:~;:,:ar~•-Boaton 
Sunday, April 19 Bullalo 3, Boston 2 Tuesday, April 
21

B fl 2 OT Boston 3, u a o 1 , Thursday, April 23 Boston 3, Buffalo 2 Saturday, April 25 Boston 5, Bullalo 4, OT Monday, April 27 Bullalo 2, Boston 0, Boston leads senes 3-2 Wednesday, April 29 Boston at Bullalo, 7:35 p.m. Friday, May t Bultalo at Boston, 7:35 p.m.. it necessary Campbell Conference Norrla Dlvlalon Mlnneaota va. Detroit Saturday, April 1 e Minnesota 4, Detroit 3 Moncay, April 20 wnnesota 4, Detroit 2 Wedn• sday. April 22 
Detroit 5, Minnesota 4, OT Fnday, April 24 Mirresota 5. Detroit 4 

the the lacrosse game and it was so much fun. The crowd was just wild. They were yelling stuff at the other team and just going crazy." said the juniors after I asked what they did on Saturday afternoon. 
Go and see what you've been missing out on on Friday night when the Irish lacrosse team takes on Michigan State at 7:30 
p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium in a game that will decide the West Region's NCAA bid. 
Notre Dame softball: Like the baseball and lacrosse teams, the softball team is also stocked with talented players. Come see Missy Linn, Ruth Kmak, Amy Folsom. Debbie Boulak, and Sheri Quinn play and listen to 
Sunday, April 26 
Detroit 3, Minnesota 0, Minnesota teaas sarles 3-2 Tuesday, April 2e 
Detroit at Minnesota. (n) Thursday, April 30 
Minnesota at Detroit. 7:35 p.m.. II necessary St. Loula ve. Chicago Saturday, April 1e 
Chicago 3, St. Louis 1 Monday. April 20 St. Louis 5, Chicago 3 Wednesday, April 22 St. Louis 5, Chicago 4, 20T Friday, April 24 ~~·cago 5, St. Louis 3 :--"•I· April 26 Ch1cago 6, St. Louis 4 Tuesday, April 2e 
Chicago 2, St. Louis t, Chicago w1ns series 4-2 Smythe Diviaion Winnipeg va. Vancouver Saturday, April 1e Winnipeg 3, Vancouver 2 Monday, April 20 Vancouver 3, Winnipeg 2 Wednesday, April 22 Winnipeg 4, Vancouver 2 Friday. April 24 Winnipeg 3, Vancouver 1 Sunday, April 26 Vancouver B. Winnipeg 2, Wmnipeg leads series 3-2 Tuesday, April 2e Vancouver at Winnipeg, (n) Thursday, April 30 
Winnipeg at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m., 1f necessary Edmonton va. Loa Ange\ea Saturday, April te 
Edmonton 3, Los Angeles 1 Monday. April 20 Los Angeles e. Edmonton 5 Wednesday, April 22 Edmonton 4, Los Angeles 3 Friday, April 24 Los Angeles 4, Edmonton 3 Sunday. April 26 Edmonton 5, Los Angeles 2, Edmonton leads series 3·2 
THIS DAY IN BASEBALL April 29 
1818 -Center 1\elder Trls Speaker 
executed his fourth unassisted double play 
In the Cleveland Indians' e-4 loss to the 
Chicago White Sox. 
18 31 -Wes Ferrell ol the Cleveland 
Indians pitched a 7-0 no-hiller against the 
St. LoUts Browns, Including his brother, 
Rick. Was also drove In four runs with a 
homer and a double. 
.., 1 -~tPve t;arlton struck out Montreal's Tim Wallach In the llrst Inning ol the Philadelphia Phillies' 6-2 victory over the visiting Expos to become the sixth major-league pitcher -and the first \eft­hander -to strike out 3,000 baners. 
1886 -Roger Clemens set a major­league record by striking out 20 batters as the Boston Red Sox defeated the Seattle Mariners 3-t. 
1887 -Andre Dawson had live hits, including the cycle, to lead the Chicago Cubs to an 8·4 victory over the San Francisco Giants. 
1888 -The Baltimore Orioles ended their 21-game losing streak and won their first game of the season. 9-0 over the Chicago White Sox on a combined lour­hitter by Mark Williamson and Dave Schmidt. 

their imaginative dugout cheers. 
The softball team is plenty busy this week, but the only home games of the week are on Friday afternoon at 3:30 p.m. on Alumni Field (out by Eck Pavilion). Try to squeeze in an exciting game before finals week. 
Men's Track: I hope that 
those people who missed watching Rocket run last year have reformed their ways and headed out to a track meet this year. If not, the Central Collegiate Championships are being held at Krause Stadium on Saturday afternoon at 3 p.m. There are plenty of track stars to possibly see including 12 seniors. 

Sunday. on Thursday, Craig Allen, and crew will be pushing it with 
Pitching will be tight with either Dan Adams or Tim Kraus everything and everyone nine games in such a limited on Friday. AI Walania and David they've got this weekend, but amount of time. Probable Sinnes on Saturday, and with the current trend for pitchers include Chris Michalak Michalak and Leahy will pitch pitching complete games the and Pat Leahy today, Tom Price again on Sunday. The mound team could be alright. 

Efficiencies from $260 1-Bedrooms from $275

We're just minutes from Notre Dame, Uni­
2-Bedrooms from $335 

versity Park Mall, the toll road and downtown South Bend. Our quiet community with spa­cious, well-kept grounds has a lot of appeal to • Featuring ­the serious student. We offer 24-hour emer­+ Planned Activities Program 
+ Beautiful Clubhouse & Poolgency maintenance service ... and we have + Air Conditioning an activities program that includes free aero­

+Disposal + Laundry Rooms bics classes, social functions, team sports +Basketball Court 
and much, much more. + Picnic Tables & Grills 
+ Volleyball Court + GazeboH you're looking for the ideal off-campus + Cable TV Available home stop by today and we'll show you com­+ 24-Hour Emergency fortable, affordable apartment living! 

Maintenance Service 
*Ask about the Hickory Village Summer Breeze ... the easy and economical way to keep 

+UCKORU 
your apartment through the summer and still go home. 

DlLLAYEf 
272-1880 

Conveniently located on Hickory Rd., just north of Edison Business Hours: Mon.-Fri. 9-7, Sat. 10-4 and Sun. 12-4 
VALUABLE COUPON 
$15 $15
NO APPLICATION FEE! 
Save $15 when you apply for an apartment at Hickory Village. Just present this coupon to the leasing agent and the $15 application fee will be waived.
$15 $15 
·, VALUABLE COUPON '· · 
Flames 
continued from page 20 
shouldn't be a cram session and we should be able to handle it." said Murphy. 
UIC starts out the busy. but far from easy week of baseball today. The Flames were 15-18 as of Monday including a 7-7 record in the Mid-Continent Conference. Last weekend. the Flames won three of four from Western Illinois. 
"UIC always plays us tough. They'll throw their top two pitchers at us," said Murphy. "It would make their season to beat Notre Dame. They play with a nothing to lose attitude." 

Steady pitching was the key as UIC pitchers chalked up three complete games. John Wesley threw a three-hit shutout in Saturday's opener to win 7-0 and lowered his earned run average to 1.40. Tadd Gibson and Dave Trolian was the winning UIC pitcher in the other complete games of the weekend. 
Mark Linkletter, Craig Kristufek, and Mike Petak burned the leathernecks at the plate. Linkletter had four runs batted in on Sunday on one homer and two doubles. Both he and Kristufek hit roundtrip­pers on Saturday while Petak sent one over the wall on 

MAl~ IGOLD 
MAI~KET
• 

--
PtAN AIEMFoR 
YouR GRlvuA-nON CElEERATION 
___. 
PARTY PLATTERS HeRs D'oeuvRES BRUNtH ~lUNCHEON 

CONTACT OURCATERING DEPARTMENT LAST MINUTE PARr'< PLATTERS AVAILAE>LE 

-~----------­
The Observer 

The UO<:ervo,./A.nl1rFow 

-~----~------
Failla 
continued from page 20 
gling. But once I got in the swing of things, I was fine." 
One problem caused by the football-baseball combination is the fact that the off-season training regiment of each team runs into the other sport. This year, Failla missed the baseball team's winter training and at­tended only six spring football practices, which he fit in be­tween baseball games. 
This problem has caused both Jacobs and Smith to choose between the two sports. Jacobs decided spend all his time on the diamond, while Smith de­cided to make a full-time commitment to football, where he will start at tight end in the fall. 
Unlike his predecessors, 

page 15 
He feels that he will be able to do so because of the similari­ties between his positions in each sport. 
"The shortstop and quarter­back are the best athletes on the field," the two-sport athlete said. "In playing both you need quick feet, a strong arm, awareness and leadership." 
Though he wants to play both sports at Notre Dame, Failla does not plan to become a multi-sport star on the profes­sional level. 
"Right now, I have the option to do both, but when it is time to decide, I don't want to mess around with the other." 
"In college, you can do it. But in the pros you need an off-sea­son." 
However, Failla is glad that the decision does not have to be made right now because of his 
..
love of both sports. 
If he had to decide on one sport, Failla said, "It depends on what season it is. In the spring, it's baseball. In the fall, it's football." 
::: ::;w~:, 


'1. t .• • 

page 16 The Observer Wednesday, April 29, 1992 
... 
.._. 
Assistant gets nod at St. John's 
NEW YORK (AP) -Brian Mahoney, an assistant for 16 years to Lou Carnesecca, will succeed the basketball Hall of Farner as St. John's coach. 
The school called a news conference for Wednesday to officially announce the re­placement for Carnesecca, who retired April 13 after 24 sea­sons. 
Sources close to the selection process confirmed Tuesday that it would be Mahoney, the only person interviewed for the job. 
Carnesecca, who is to be in­ducted into the Basketball Hall of Fame May 11, had a 526-200 record and his teams were in­vited to postseason play in each of his 24 seasons. The Redmen were 19-11 last season and lost to Tulane in the first round of the NCAA tournament after fin­ishing as co-champions in the Big East's regular season. 
Carnesecca, 6 7, had sup­ported Mahoney from the start, but St. John's President Rev. Donald J. Harrington formed the committee and said Mahoney would be a candidate. 
Support was heavy for Mahoney to become another St. John's assistant promoted to the head job as Carnesecca was in 1965 after eight seasons as an assistant to Joe Lapchick. 

Grand Opening April 31'd 
Rainbow Video 
WE SPECIAUZE IN: Korean Japanese Chinese Video Tapes Free Membership 
State Road 23 8 Ironwood Next to 76 Gas Station Mon-Sat 10 am to 10 pm Sun 1:& noon to fJ pm 
(Z19) Z73-9S4S 
........$$$$$$$$$$$$$~ 
TlleN'1 -II> lllllfOllol)' work llloa 1! JUst money... kith-• Md pl~a~"' "
1
"'""' . 
Tile Cbotce for ~tacna~ la lookins f.,. i 
briab~ Jlnll..aiooal. enlb...t.etic, cou.1., ~ ltUdonq ....:! Jnds whu ono w'-rooled ill WO!tla101 beau. ~unt~at f'inlu, laow tlmu aod QOilfUitiOJ compuic•. * 
SPORTS SHORTS 

•een~ls draft big gamble in true rookie CINCI NATI -Lance Olberding never played college football. Yet, the offensive lineman was drafted in the seventh round by the Cincinnati Bengals. Olberding has been working as a bouncer and played semipro ball for the Randolph, Mass,, Oilers. The 6-foot-6, 305-pound offensive left the University of Iowa as a freshman. He would now be going into his senior year. Olberding is a cousin o former NBA player Mark Olberding and Jon Konchak of the Atlanta Hawks. 
·F~vtfcicks Andretti as driver for Indy 500HO S ON -A.J. Foyt went into the Andretti family on Tuesday for a driver, naming Jeff Andretti to drive one of the Chevrolet­powered Lolas he will enter in the Indianapolis 500. Andretti, 28, is the youngest son of Mario Andretti, and won rookie of the year honors at last year's race Indianapolis Speedway. Mario won the rookie honor in 1965 and Michael Andretti, another of Mario's sons, won the award in 1984. Jeff Andretti was running in the top ten last year when engine problems knocked out his car. He was credited with 15th place. 
•Johnson jersey earns big bucks at auction HOUSTON -A signed Los Angeles Lakers jersey belonging to Magic Johnson brought $8,000 at a charity auction. The buyer was heavyweight champion Evander Holyfield. The jersey was the highest-priced single item at Sunday night's fund-raising dinner and auction for the Warren Moon Celebrity Golf Tournament benefiting the Houston Oiler quarterback's Crescent Moon Foundation. Holyfield outbid Moon and quarterbacks Randall Cunningham and Boomer Esiason and Johnson bought one o Moon's autographed jerseys for $4,000. 
Connor knots Cup race 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -The routs are off in the America's Cup regatta. 
Dennis Conner pulled yet an­other rabbit out of his year-old Stars & Stripes on Tuesday and evened the best-of-13 defender finals with Bill Koch's America3 (America Cubed) at 4-all. 
Stars & Stripes, battered in the first three races of the fi­nals, has come roaring back in 
the  light, shifty  wind  that  
Conner has mastered.  
Stars  &  Stripes  beat  

America3 by 1 minute, 47 sec­onds for its third straight vic­tory and fourth in the last five races. Stars & Stripes has led America3 at every turning mark in each of its victories. 
And Italy's II Moro di Venezia, which has bitterly con­tested New Zealand's use of a bowsprit, beat the Kiwis by 53 seconds to tie the best-of-9 challenger finals at 3-3. 
II Moro's second straight victory came several hours after the international jury running the challenger series 
revised its interpretation of the use of the Kiwis' controversial bowsprit. 
The highly technical debate over the New Zealand bowsprit isn't over. The issue was to be resubmitted to the America's Cup match jury Tuesday night. 
However, the Kiwis changed the way they used the bowsprit on Tuesday. The bowsprit is used to set the gennaker, a large headsail, on downwind runs. 
New Zealand led the series 4-1 after winning on Saturday, but the jury, acting on a protest by II Moro, annulled that vic­tory. Il Moro came back and won Sunday's race. 
New Zealand got into the protest act, too, by hoisting a technical protest flag rounding the mark at the end of the downwind second leg on Tuesday. The Kiwis had 2 1/2 hours from the end of the race to file a protest. 
The series winners will meet in the 28th America's Cup match beginning May 9. 

WE'VE JUST HIRED SOME EXCEPTIONAL TALENT. 
LISA CABRAL BJOERN LUETTMANN MICHAEL OWENS 
The Travelers is proud to announce that the students listed above will be joining us as new employees this year. 
Whether in. information systems, employee benefits, operations management, telecommunications, finance, actuarial or one ofour many other entry-level positions or training programs, we look forward to the contributions these talented people will make to our business. 
We'd like to thank all ofyou who interviewed with us. And we wish the best of luck to all of this year's graduates. 

TheTravelerSJ ' 
Your better off under the Umbrella.® 
-------~---~---~----------~---­
Wednesday, April29, 1992 The Observer page 17 

AP File Photo Patrick Ewing led the New York Knicks to victory over the Pistons in last night's NBA playoff action in Auburn Hills, Mich. 

Suul a.-ad t6 a. 9'U'd«au 
Uf, fUt'r, ~ 15 ~­
Se-ut ... ~· S/9'.00. -"~ ~t.: 7~~ P.O.~ 2 ~ Z'-.e. ~ 46SSI..~ 

7f.Artu ~ ~-ek l...d ~ tk ~ -t...e .atu.ut a l...d ~» ,-. "!)~ a 1Jt...., 13. 
Ewing leads Knicks to win; Nets stay alive 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. (AP) -Patrick Ewing scored 12 of his 32 points in the fourth quarter and added four more in overtime to lead New York to a 90-87 win over Detroit on Tuesday night, giving the Knicks a 2-1 lead in the first­round NBA series. 
The Knicks, who outre­bounded Detroit 99-60 in the first two games at Madison Square Garden, had a 49-43 rebounding edge in Game 3, with Ewing and Xavier McDaniel each pulling down 13. 
The best-of-5 series resumes Friday night at The Palace. Game 5, if necessary, would be Sunday in New York. 
John Salley scored 20 points for Detroit and Dennis Rodman got 14 rebounds for the Pistons. 
New York led all the way in overtime, starting with a 3­pointer by John Starks. 
Isiah Thomas, held to only six points, missed a jumper in the lane and Rodman was called for a foul with 14.3 left in the overtime. Charles Oakley then threw the ball away on the inbounds play, Joe Dumars got it and Detroit called timeout with 13 seconds remaining and Nets still trail 2-1 in the best­New York ahead 88-87. of-5 first-round series against 
When play resumed, the Cavaliers, whose only play­Dumars' pass for Thomas was off series victory in franchise picked off by Mark Jackson, history came in 1976. 
who drew an intentional foul from Thomas. 
Jackson's two free throws with 3.9 seconds remaining gave the Knicks a 90-87 lead. Bill Laimbeer missed a 3-point attempt at the buzzer. 
Defense dominated again, with the Knicks shooting 39 percent from the field and the Pistons 38. 
Nets 109, Cavs 104 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. ­Cleveland and New Jersey, two of the NBA's least successful playoff teams, are both trying to forget their postseason pasts. 
The Nets erased a major playoff negative Tuesday night, winning a postseason game for the first time since 1984 when Drazen Petrovic and Derrick Coleman led a fourth-quarter rally that beat the Cavaliers 109-104. 
While snapping a 10-game postseason losing streak, the 

is now accepting application for the following position: 
Assistant News Editor Copy Editor 
To apply, submit a resume and a one page personal statement to David Kinney by Friday, May 1. For further information, contact The Observer at 239-5303. 
"We haven't had that much playoff experience and haven't been in the hunt," Nets forward Chris Morris said. "It's a com­pliment to us that we won. We have a long way to go and we're not finished yet." 
Cleveland, which averaged 13 turnovers in its two victories at home but committed 23 Tuesday night, plays at New Jersey Thursday night. 
If the Nets win again, Game 5 would be at Richfield Coliseum on Saturday, with the series winner advancing to play Boston. The Celtics, winners of 16 NBA championships, swept the Indiana Pacers. 
Class 
continued from page 13 
HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP!! 
Ride needed back to NEW 
JERSEY after finals. Will help pay 
for gas/tolls. Please call Mike at 
x:3526. 
NEEDED: Ride back home to 
Boston/New England Area. Will 
help pay for gas and tolls. Call 
Greg at x3526 
My brother is a big fan of BUSH. So satisfy his desires with a graduation ticket. Call Herbie at 272-6392. 
THE SISTER CHAIN Saturday May2 CLUB 23 
.. 
Horses for lease experienced riders only. $50/month, can work in exchange. 234-4985. 
Buffalo Club-The Truck to take stuff home will load on Wed., May 6 and Thurs.,May 7 from 3to6pm at Stepan. Any ?'s-mattx3559 
Garth Brooks is still a GOD! 


Summertime is almost here. It's time for Tracks' ~ 
annual ' _/; 
HUNDREDS 
OF CLASSIC CDS 
$9.99 
DOZENS 
OF NEWER TlTLES 
$10.99 

Macri's Pizza & Italian Restaurant Pizza-Pasta-Sandwiches-Stuffed Pizza Pies 

Carry out or Dine in 
52303 Emmon~ Rd. 
Georgetown Shopping Center llAM-lOPM (next to Club Shenanigan's) 

sTUFFU'Tits 
In Whatever you can and *~
* * -­


• 
Boxes Plus 

5622 Grape Road Wilshire Plaza MishaWaka:alnafanct46s4s 
Call these numbers for any large item pick-up and get your Free 
Discount Coupon!// 
283-3047 

----... 
283-1022 277-5555 

---------~---~--­
~-­

page 18 The Observer Wednesday, April 29, 1992 
Lyght remembers Notre Dame with $$ 
$100,000 endowment to benefit general scholarships 

By JOHN KIM 
Sports Writer 
The University of Notre Dame has received a commitment from former Notre Dame All­American football defensive back Todd Lyght to establish a $100,000 endowed scholarship for undergraduate students. 
The gift is part of a series by Lyght in which he has also set up scholarship funds at his former high school, L.M. Powers Catholic High School in Flint, Michigan, and at St. Mary's elementary school in Alexandria, Va. 
"I wanted to do something to personally help students with financial need achieve the life­long benefit of a quality educa­tion such as I received at Notre Dame," said Lyght. 

-
"I've been blessed with so many opportunities in' my life, and I hope this will help provide some educational opportunities to others." 
Funds will be raised by Lyght to fulfill his commitment to the University. Therefore it will take a couple of years for the first scholarship to be given out to the undergraduate students. 

• 


London  $5t5•  
Frankfurt  $655•  
Rome  $715*  
Tel Aviv  $765•  
Copenhagen  $655•  

•F~~res el"e roundtr1p for departu'es up to June 15wsched.Jied Ccllliers. lntemctional Teacher IDs, Hostel ca-ds, overseas I.Ylguage courses for teachers. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Del!rban St., ~d floor Chica9o, II 6061 0 
311·951·0585 
Cillll For A Free 1991 Student Trillvel Cilltillogl 
Todd Lyght 

This scholarship is in no way favorable to the athletes. "It is for the general undergrad pop­ulation based strictly on need base," said Daniel G. Reagan. Director of Annual Funds. 
Todd Lyght, a 6-1, 184lb­cornerback from Flint, Mich., was the captain of Notre Dame's 1990 team. He was a two-time consensus All­American and one of three fi­nalists for the Jim Thorpe Award as the top defensive back in the nation in 1989. Lyght ended with 161 tackles and 11 interceptions in his ca­reer as a three year starter for Notre Dame. Coach Lou Holtz considered him to be the most talented defensive back he had ever coached. 
Lyght was a first round selec­tion and the fifth pick overall in the 1991 NFL draft and he went on to play his rookie year with the Los Angeles Rams of the National Football League. 
Lyght is a member of the Athletic Alumni Development Committee at Notre Dame along with 30 other former student­athletes who have been invited by University president Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., to act as role models for Notre Dame's current student-athletes. This committee also helps the University with alumni relations and fund-raising for non­
athletic student financial aid. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•sports 
Briefs are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit your name, brief, telephone number, and the dates the brief is to run. 

•The 
"Dump your Plump" team from the Decio Building, "Decio Dumpers," will lead the noon-time walk on Thursday. Meet them at 12:10 in front of Washington Hall for an escorted 30 minute walk around campus. 

•3-on-3 
Tourney scheduled for Saturday, May 16. The second annual "Winamac Shoot Out" three on three triple elimination tournament is now accepting entries. Special events include free throw, slam dunk, and three point field goal shooting contests. The entry fee of $70 per four member team which will be donated to charity is due no later than Wednesday, May 13. Questions? Call Randy Miller at 233-6195. 

•ND/SMC 
Sailing Club members do not forget to call Adrienne to R.S.V.P. at 284-5344. 


If you see news happening call 239-5303 and let us know. The Observer 

St. Mary's All Campus Spring Bash 
Featuring the Generics @ Haggar Terrace 8 ... 11 pm Wed., May 29th 
Sponsored by St. Mary's Junior Class 


now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Circulation drivers 
Get paid to tour the ND and SMC campuses at lunchtime and drop a few papers off while you're at it! 
To apply, please contact Rich Riley at 239-7471. 
...And we always thought it would be MAGGS! 
CONGRATULATIONS! 
to our two favorite sheep, Mark& Brenda on their Engagement! 

\'-'-'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''\ ~ SUMMER STORAGE ~ 
~ "IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO SAVE $$" ~ ~ CONSOUDATED LEASING CORP. ~ ~ AN ALTERNATIVE WAY TO STORE ~ ~ COMPARE -IT'S CHEAPER ~ ~ SECURELY -IMMEDIATELY -ECONOMICALLY ~ 
~0 SITES TO STORE TRAILER ~ 
"'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' 
~  1) COUNTY LINE BETWEEN ST.  ~  
~  JOSEPH AND ELKART COUNTIES~  
~  2) BENDIX ROAD NEAR AIRPORT  ~  
~  LOAD IN OUR YARD-NO EXTRA CHARGE OR~  
~  LOAD ON OR NEAR ND/SMC CAMPUS FOR A~  
~  SERVICE CHARGE OF $80.  ~  
S  TRAILER SIZE  COST/MONTH  '~  
s~  45' X 8'  $100  ~  
~  42' X 8'  $100  '  
~  40'X 8'  $90  ~  
~  32' X 8'  $90  ~  
~  GROUP STORAGE IS ENCOURAGED  \  
~  CALL NOW TO RESERVE YOUR TRAILER:674·0S33  ~  

.. SMC We Aire lFmmllny Weelk: continues... 
Party All Over The World 
8-12 Tonight at Dalloway's--Folkdancing & Spanish Guitar 


Wednesday, April 29, 1992 
SPELUNKER 
page 19 

~~fSNEf PICTURES Friday, May 1st 
• 


aturday, May 2nd
edward 
BeaUty 
8:00pm and 10:30 pm Cushing Auditorium IPG·t~l Gl>, Admission is $2.00
seasr
~bnt<soa9, .Ap;~·1ffi'3o~b 

REFRIGERATOR RETURN THURSDAY, APRIL 30th j STEPAN BASKETBALL COURT 11 :00 AM -2:30 PM . LYONS COURT 3:00PM-6:00PM 


------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t_--~~~~~~~~~~~~S~T~U~D~E~N~T~U~N~IO~N~BO~A~R~D~ 
---J 


BILL WATIERSONCALVIN AND HOBBES 
170R. SCHOOL . WE.'RE SU\'~8> '' W\\i\1 DO't:.S t-Il'{ DAD Do? \0 WRITE A Pi\Rf\GR.AI'\-1 MOS\LY, HE GETS Ot-.1 l-IlY ABOUT W\-\1\T 0\JR Df>..DS 00. KER'-JI:O.S . 11-\'t El'tt>. '' 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPIN JOHN MONKS 
"Keep the door shut, Ernie! I just know that dang cat is going to try dragging that thing Into the house." 
CAMPUS
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Shrimp Poppers Grilled Turbot Cheese Tortellini 
Wednesday 

7:30 p.m. Notre Dame Seniors Jazz Concert. Rehearsal Hall, Band Building. Sponsored by department of music. 8 p.m. Prayer Dialogue for Saint Catherine of Siena. Lounge, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Notre Dame Committee on the Ordination of Women. 
©Edward Julius Collegiate CW83-21 

ACROSS 45 Pershing or Patton 8 Postal code 
(abbr.) 9 Selves 1 Sulks 46 Siamese 10 Brutish 6 Summer house 47 Baseball 11 Canadian province 
12 Monopolies abbreviation 12----section, in 14 Requiring immediate 48 "----for All math action Seasons" 13 Tightwad16 Like some 50 Baseball hall-of-15 Renter 
voyages farner, ----Wynn 20 Pertaining to an 17 Fencing retort 52 Reddish-brown bird uncle 18 Close to 53 Figure of speech 26 Follow 19 College major 55 Legal reversion of 27 Khartoum's river 21 Mr. Musial property 28 College subj. 22 "-n~ghtin~ale 57 Loosely-woven 2g Hindu queens
could s1ng... fabric 31 Backdrops 23 Washington office 58 Regrets 32 Hill in Jerusalem 24 Retirement account 59 Certain test 34 ----camp 
(abbr.) questions 35 Entertain richly25 Movie, in Mexico 60 Appraises 36 Religious recluse 27 Word that describes 37 Mexican party items 
itself DOWN 39 Of the earth 28 "...amber waves of 40 "----me every time" 
" 1 "South -" 42 Aspects30 Entrust 2 Certain seasoning 44 Liquid quantities32 Fanatic 3 The Beehive State 46 Very small 33 Choice 4 Hang -49 Names, in Nimes 35 Ill-----5 Performed a base-51 French river 38 Bladder stone ball maneuver 52 Sharpen 41 Canal and Lake 6 ----measles 54 Aunt, in Acapulco 42 Marshall, e.g. 7 Like the earth's 56 Price Waterhouse 43 Ooze imaginary line employee 
LECTURES  
Wednesday 3:30 p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Seminar, "Flow Structure in a Plane Mixing Layer," Judith Foss, University of Southern California. Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering. Sponsored by aerospace and mechanical engineering. 4 p.m. Seminar: "The Role of Organic Acids in Fluids-Rock Interactions," Jeremy Fein, University of Edinburgh, U.K. Room 208, Cushing Hall. Sponsored by civil engineering and geological sciences. 4:15 p.m. Lecture: "Democracy, Militarization, and Human Rights in Peru Today," Javier Diez Canseco, Peruvian Senator, Lima. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute.  
Please Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle. -Thank You  



----------~------~-----­
page 20 
JENNY MARTEN On Top of Sports  0  
...  i  )  .......  

You deserve a break today-support Irish sports 
If you feel like a schmuck because you've been at Notre Dame for one or several years and never saw Dave DiLucia, the top-ranked collegiate tennis player, actually play, you can still redeem yourself. 
As the school year draws to a close, the spring sports seasons are also ending, but you still have a few more chances to see some of Notre Dame's other top­ranked athletes compete before you leave. 
Finals are here and if you're not a 'bran~ rat that means lots o' study breaks. What better way to kick back and r<llax bdore finals week with a sporting event? 
Here's a quick rundown of what's available: 
Notre DamP baseball: The Irish are ranked 24th in the country and have already defeated top-ranked Miami and other quality teams. The team has several players who you might just see in the big leagues some day. Time is running out to catch senior tri-captains .Joe Binkiewicz, Cory Mee, and Craig Counsell and senior Mike Rooney in Notre Dame uniforms. 

Sports 
-------------------------. 

Irish softball loses 1 to 
Indiana State, 1 to dark 
Observer Staff Report 
After dropping the first game 2-1, the Notre Dame softball team battled Indiana State into 11 innings in the second game before it was called because of darkness. 
In the opener, both teams got on the board in the first inning before the pitching took over. Both teams were shutdown until the sixth, when Indiana State had a rally brewing. 
Courtney Sigler reached on an error and moved to second on a wild pitch before Cindy Wilson's single moved her to third. Wilson then stole second, but the Irish were able to hold of the rally with a harmless ground out to third and a strikeout ending the inning. 
The Sycamores were able to put the game winning run on the board in the seventh, however, when Wendy Cameron scored on on Stacey Brown's single. 
The Irish were set down in order in the bottom of the seventh, dropping their record to 27-24. The second game displayed a few more offensive fireworks. 
Four straight hits resulted in three runs for the Sycamores in the top of the first inning, and they added another run in the second. 
Notre Dame was able to get on the board in the bottom of the first, but after that the offense sputtered and it looked like the Sycamores would cruise to a sweep. 
The Irish proved everyone wrong, as they rallied for three runs in the bottom of the sixth to knot the game at four. 
That's where it would stay until the eleventh inning, when Indiana State's bats got going again. Debbie Styx 
see ISU I page 17 
Failla classic two-sport star 
Frosh excels on baseball, football teams 
:" 
'
.,
. 
. 
The Observer/ Jake Peters 

Paul Failla has been a force at the plate as well as in the field this year for the Irish baseball team. Failla has helped the Irish as a designated hitter, an outfielder, and a shortstop. 
Wednesday, April 29, 1992 
Irish baseball will be busy 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
Nine games in five games. 
While the rest of the student body prepares for final exams, the 24th-ranked Notre Dame baseball team (27-12) is preparing for a weekend of non-stop baseball. Illinois-Chicago rolls into town today for a doubleheader at Coveleski Stadium. 
On Thursday, Eastern Michigan comes to Jake Kline for a single game. On Friday, the Irish will take on Cleveland State in a doubleheader. Saturday and Sunday mean Midwestern Collegiate Conference action when Notre Dame travels to 
Detroit  for  a  pair  of  
doubleheadHrs  against  
Detroit Mercy.  

"Adversity is nothing new to our club," said Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy, whose team will have played 38 games in 42 days since the Irish played Miami at the end of March. "We have got to get these games in." 
Unfortunately, the Irish team is hurting with injuries. Cory Mee dislocated his finger yesterday, Craig Counsell has two ailing ankles, Dan Bautch has two banged up shoulders and a broken wrist, and Greg Layson is out with a broken foot. Mee, Counsell. and Bautch will see limited play during the week while Layson is out indefinitely. The solution sounds simple. 
"We have to have others, some of the younger players, step up and carry the load," said Murphy. 
It may be harder than it sounds with finals fast ap­proaching, but the coach isn't worried. 
"If we've prepared well and managed our time well, it 
see FLAMES I page 14 

By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Editor 
Two-sport athletes are nothing new at Notre Dame. In recent years, both Frank Jacobs and lrv Smith played football and baseball in the same season, while in 1991­92, Ryan Mihalko participated in both football and track and field and Kevin Pendergast played soccer and football. 
The latest athlete to join this elite group is freshman quarterback/ outfielder/ shortstop Paul Failla. 
Failla spent the majority of the football season playing understudy to Rick Mirer, but has sparkled thus far on the diamond. 
"I am having a great time (on the baseball field). and am excited about playing every day," Failla commented. 
Early this spring, Failla struggled, but he has made strides throughout the season, and he recently went on a nine-game hitting barrage in which he was 19-for-35 with five doubles and two triples. 
"He (Failla) has made constant improvement," Irish baseball coach Pat 
Murphy said. "He has been amazing and he has made the adjustment to the college game." 
For the season, Failla has started 36 of 39 games, predominantly in leftfield and cen­terfield, but recently he has seen playing time at his natural position-shortstop. 
At the plate, he is hitting .288 and is second on the team in extra-base hits with 
13. His four triples put him second in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference in that category. 
Failla has been on campus almost constantly since he arrived at Notre Dame in early August to begin football drills. 
"The hardest thing (about playing two sports), especially as a freshman, is that you don't get to go home very often," the Sewickley, Penn. native explained. 
"It is hard to stay totally focused and intense for such a long period. You've really got to want it." 
"In the latter part of the football season and early in baseball season, I was strug­
see FAILLA! page 15 






