The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 65 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Pawlicki: Du Lac should not be only a rule book 


conduct," she said. "Information about student life and resources on and off-cam­pus was put into what is now called the Student Handbook." 
The second step was to ex­pand and include more policies and procedures in du Lac. 
"We further clarified the al­cohol policy and added new policies on things such as sex­ual assault," Pawlicki said. 
Other significant changes made over the years, according to Pawlicki, include the new no­smoking policy on campus, which was added last summer, and the discriminatory ha­rassment policy added two summers ago. 
see DU LAC I page 4 

Enrollment of foreign students falls 
By NICK RIOS 
News Writer 
Because of the recent de­
crease in foreign students at 
Notre Dame, the University 
needs to pay more attention to 
the enrollment of international 
students, said Arthur Grubert, 
director of International Stu. 
dent Affairs. 
The number of international students has dropped from 699 student in 1991 to 6 70 students in 1992, according to the Office of International Student Affairs. Because of this decrease, the University should recruit foreign students, said Grubert. 
Barbara Turpin, associate dean of graduate admission, argued that the numbers are not significant. "We should not look at the numbers as a signif­icant or relevant factor. According to our numbers, we have had an increase in the number of enrolled graduate students," she said. 
The number of international students enrolled in the grad­uate school has increased from 398 in 1991 to 426 in 1992, ac­cording to the Office of Gradu­ate Admission. 
Grubert said, "I agree with Ms. Turpin that the represen­tation of international students in graduate school is very good, that is precisely what I want from undergraduate too." 
"Notre Dame has a strong international body. Our fresh­men enrollment has gone up from 46 in 1990 to 57 in 1992. We can't look at only one set of numbers," said Steve Grissom, associate director Admissions Office. 
Susan Joyce, assistant direc­tor of Admissions Office agreed with Grissom and added, "The numbers are not significant, what we want to achieve is di" versity." 
Turpin said that the Univer­sity seeks the best students, regardless of where they come from. "We do not look where the person is from but rather select them like the rest," said Turpin. 
Grubert disagreed with Turpin. "This is why I have al­ways felt disappointed with the 
see STUDENTS I page4 

Editor's Note: The following is the second of a three part series about changes du Lac will undergo at the end of the school year. 
By JULIE BARRETT AND 
THERESA ALEMAN 
News Writers 
The purpose of du Lac is not 
only to outline the behavioral 
expectations of students at 
Notre Dame but also to inform 
them of policies and procedures 
to follow if they are victimized 
in any way, said Betsy Pawlicki, 
director of Resident Life at ND. 
"In the past, students may 
have shunned du Lac because 
they thought it was a list of 
what students are not allowed 

U.N. forces ordered to Somalia 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) The Security Council launched the world's biggest armed hu­manitarian rescue Thursday night, ordering a U.S.-led force to silence the guns of Somali bandits and help feed hundreds of thousands of starving people. 
The council, outraged by the 
• U. S. troops I page 5 
plundering of relief aid des­tined for refugee camps full of walking skeletons, voted unanimously to approve the huge operation. 
After planning with his gen­erals and working the phones to drum up troop donations from abroad, President Bush was poised to unleash the largest U.S. military operation since the Gulf War. 
Given the order, 1 ,800 troops aboard a three-ship strike force floating in the Indian Ocean could land on Somali beaches within hours. and the full force of 28,000 could arrive within weeks. 
France will add as many as 2,000 troops. Italy offered un­specified help. 
For all the boldness of the move, it came more than a year after severe food shortages and civil unrest were first reported in Somalia. 
to do at Notre Dame," she said. "Nowadays, many students look to du Lac to find out what they can do if they are victimized or their friends are." 
For example, du Lac contains sections informing students what procedures to take if they receive harassing phone calls, are sexually harassed by an­other student, faculty member or administrator, or are sexu­ally assaulted. Even a list of medical and support services 
for victims of sexual assault is provided. 
When Pawlicki came to Notre Dame in 1986, she said that no centralized policy handbook ex­isted listing all the rules, re­sponsibilities and procedures for students to follow. Instead, 
Cooperative learning 

pamphlets and and brochures were distributed to students, each detailing a certain Univer­sity policy, such as the alcohol policy. 
The version of du Lac at the time did contain some policies and procedures for students. 
However, according to Pawlicki, the booklet was incomplete and actually served as both a guide for students regarding University policy and as a resource guide to campus and community services available to them. 
"This random and unorga­nized distribution of school policies and regulations was unfair for students who were responsible for upholding all of them,u Pawlicki said. 
During her first year at Notre Dame, Pawlicki said she helped "clean up" and clarify duLac to make the information more us­able and accessible to students. 
"The first step was to make du Lac solely a policy and pro­-cedure manual for student 
The Observer/Jim Maloney 

Seniors Bart Garrison and Billy Allen take a momentary break from studying for finals. Finals have many students working to try and maintain or improve their grades. 
Saint Mary's students want explantion of fee increase 

By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
News Writer 
While students believe an in­crease in the Saint Mary's stu­dent government fee may be warranted, they would like to see a detailed explanation of what specific activities student government plans on bringing to campus before they wage support for the raise. 
The proposal for the increase was developed by student gov­ernment after researching other colleges of similar size to determine the activities fees their students paid. The fees at other schools were significantly higher than the· current student government fee at Saint Mary's, according to Julie McCormick, vice president of Student Activities. 
Student government will pre­
sent the proposal to increase 
the fee 275 percent from the 
current fee of $20 per semester 
to $7 5 per: .semester to the Se­
nior Officers of the College. 
The current student activity 
fee paid by students of Notre 
Dame, a much larger university, 
is only $27.50 per semester. 
Some students said that 
student government should 
justify the increase before they 
make the proposal. 
"I'm not saying that it's wrong 
if it is needed, but I would like to see them show what they would use the money for," said Karen Micha, a junior from Le Mans Hall. "They definitely · need to break it down and show us why it needs to go up that 
much." 
McCormick said that while 
she would like to tell the details of how student government plans to use the money, she has to remain cautious until the proposal is written and pre­sented to the Senior Officers. 

"In general we want to in­crease activities and opportuni­ties for students to have the resources to bring in better speakers and entertainment," she said. 
Holy Cross Hall freshman, Amy DeReamer said that stu­dent government owes students an explanation of where the money will be spent before she decides whether or not she supports the increase. 
"We already pay a lot with tuition and other fees," said DeReamer. "If they could show sufficient reason for such a high increase I might think it was all right." 
According to Jill Hotek, enter­tainment chairwoman of Stu­dent Activities Board (SAB). there is a need for an increase in fees. 
"SAB as a whole has a small budget, to raise fees even a small amount would help," said Hotek. 
With her present budget for entertainment, Hotek said bringing in even one profes­sional act would require the use of her entire budget for the semester. 
"The limited amount of fees forces me to be very creative when I try to plan activities," she said. "The fees need to change to be comparable to the increases in the cost of living." 
Dan Osberger, vice president for Fiscal Affairs, said that the College will not make the final decision on the tuition and fee 
see FEE I page 4 
• t 


J 
\ \ 

~------------------------------------------------------------------~~~-------------------­
Friday, December 4, 1992 The Observer page 3 


Group seeks student input 
ByiJ:USTIN 

for current du Lac revision 
NewlfNriter 
.::f; 
Editor's Note: The following is the third in a three-part series

The frequency of 
about changes du Lac will

reduced only,_when 
undergo at the end of the 

rapists learn that "no 
school year. 

only yes means yes," 
By SARAH DORAN AND 

Buckma'JJ. a repre 
KATIE MURPHY 

Campus Alliance 
News Writers 

Elimination (C.A.R presentation at P last night. }j!\tf!li • Du Lac is revised every twoAfter a short video years by the office of Residence 
a typical acquain 
Life, which operates under the ernment. -..
Buckman and fellow direction of senior staff mem­At this point in the process, bers from the office of Student the legal department of Student Affairs, including Patricia Government is handling du Lac O'Hara, vice president for stu­revisiOns. Rich Delevan,campuses.'* ~­dent affairs and William Kirk, executive coordinatm of the le­Buckman said that assistant vice president for res­gal department, is coordinating
legally ~efined as " 
idence life. research on du Lac and student Input for the resolutions opinions on specific issues. Halpern: Chilean democrats must hear people comes from different sources on Delevan hopes that the first 

By THERESA ALEMAN Halpern, who is a Fellow at News Writer the Woodrow Wilson Center for 
Intern Scholars in Washington, 
D.C., will return to Chile as 

Citizens of Chile have accused head of communications for the their government of not taking Christian Democratic candidate advantage of economic growth in Chile's next election. potential, according to Pablo According to Halpern, Demo­Halpern who lectured yesterday cratic candidates must respond on "Public Opinion on the Role to public dissatisfaction in order of the State: Chile in Transition to avoid future social conflicts. to Democracy." "There are eleven million in-

Newly Remodeled 
Notre Dame Apartments 

Now available for the 2nd semester and '93 , '94 school year Call 232 , 8256 for info and scheduled showings 
habitants of Chile, five million of those are below the poverty level," said Halpern. 
In general, rightist, or con­servative citizens, who are generally wealthy, favor less state involvement in the econ­omy while leftists, usually lower income citizens, favor a high degree of state aid. 
While other Chilean analysts indicate that people do not think the state will solve their problems, Halpern said that with carefully worded ques­tions, one can ascertain that,"people want a substantial amount of help from the gov­ernment in overcoming such problems as poverty." 
Halpern said that Chile's democratization has been a success, but he concluded that increasingly negative attitudes toward the current government could make the future political scene more competitive. 
campus, but most student concerns are brought to Stu­dent Affairs' knowledge through meetings of the Cam­pus Life Council (CLC), which is composed of four student sena­tors, the student body presi­dent, residence hall rectors, faculty members, a ,representa­tive of the Hall Presidents Council and Kirk. 
Other resolutions originate within the University adminis­tration, such as the revision of the Alcohol Policy, while others are brought about by Student Affairs itself, said Kirk. 
"There is ample opportunity for student input in this pro­cess," said Kirk. "Often a letter from the president of the stu­dent body is presented to Pro­fessor O'Hara arrd input is re­layed in that fashion. But, a great deal of student ideas, thoughts, and concerns come up through the CLC and the le­gal department of student gov-
The Observer 
-is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Design Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement to Jeanne Blasi.-Contact The Observer at 239-5303 for more information. 
draft of student proposals will 
be ready in January or Febru­
ary. 
"Primarily, we're still in the 

research gathering stage. But 
the whole process will be one of 
refinement from start to finish," 
said Delevan. 
Members of the legal de­partment have been attending hall council meetings in an at­tempt to find out how students feel about certain parts of du Lac. Ideas and propositions from the student body are en­couraged, said Delevan. 
"In case there is something people want added, that's why we're out there. People want to talk about it. Some students have actually had some ideas that we didn't think of," said Delevan. 
According to Delevan, the new method of working with Student Affairs is also a learn­ing process for student gov-' ernment. 
"It's a learning process for us. We're . learning how the University makes policy and how we can influence pol­icy,"said Delevan. "We want to stress cooperation instead of confrontation with Student Af­fairs. There are areas of com­mon ground." 
Student Affairs has the final word on du Lac revisions, specifically O'Hara and her se­nior staff. For the most part, the revisions are worked on during the summer, with the disciplinary load being lightest on Student Affairs at this time, according to Kirk. 

F lENDS DON'T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK. 




r-------, r-------, 
I 1.. 14" L~rge I I 4... 14" Large 1 
I . 1 Topping_ I I 1 Topping I 
P1zza w1th Sux 
1 1 • 1 
1 and 2 soft drinks P1zza 
1 1 1 1 

$1995

I $10°0 I I I
+Tax +Tax 
1Additiona1Toppings.95¢each ...~ 1Addirio':"'IT~ppings.95¢each ~-~ 
.... _______ ... liiiiii _______ .. 
INnr Valid With Any Other Coupon ~'I I Nor Vahd With Any Other Coupon =1 
rBr~;-dsti~lZsl 
I •1 Garlic Sauce I I •1 Cheese Sauce I 
I $1oo I
I -+Tax I 
& Sli\NLEY H. KAPlAN
IAdditional Toppi~gs::~:~~~.~ 
.£Take Kaplan OrTake Your Chances
INnr Valid With Any Other Coupon ='I 
liiil-------~

HOURS 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
M~Th ~11:00 a.m.~ 1:00 a.m. South Bend, IN 46637 
(219) 272-4135

Fri~Sat ~ 11:00 a.m. ~ 3:00 a.m. 
Sun~Noon ~ 1:00 a.m.
Fast • Hot • Perfect 
-~----~ ---------------:---~--­
page 4 The Observer Friday, December 4, 1992 
Gaidar defends free-market
SECURITY BEAT 
MoN1;t4ov. 30 

12:34 a.m.. A.Stil•lldiitJHall resident was sloppOO for reCkless <friVing Lake Road near Lewis Hall 2:02p.m. N~tre-Oam~;J>Securtty re~ sponded to an aCCident on the Juniper Road sidewalk betwee-n the Galvin Ute 
3~16a.m, Notr& Dame Sveufity sponded to suspicious actiVity near the south end of the Rijd: l!iast paikiiig lot. An Alumni Hall resic!ent was cited for vandalism after the officer found that a tree had been cutoownCJf.. _--·.·-·­
3:45 p.m. Notre tJ11rrle Security re­sponded to a min(irti'aJflc accident In­volving two South Bend residents on Douglas Road. No were reportec!. 
Fee 
continued from page 1 
structure for the next academic year now. The decision will be made in April when it is pre­sented to the Board of Regents for approval. 
MOSCOW (AP) -Acting Prime Minister Yegor Gaidar told a jeering Congress on Wednesday that the Russian people are smarter and more patient than the hard-liners who are trying to dump his government and block reforms. 
Gaidar, fighting for his job and the economic policy he has championed for President Boris Yeltsin, conceded that the government's program had failed to tame inflation, now 25 percent a month. 
But he said a declining num­ber of strikes and public protests indicated growing pub­lic acceptance of the switch from seven decades of com­munism toward a free-market economy. 
"There is no threat of hunger and cold. We have passed through the period of adapta­tion to reforms without social upheaval," Gaidar said. 
"Despite all the hardships re-
Student government called 32 colleges and universities across the country of similar size to determine what there activity fees were. Some of the colleges and universities they asked include: Mount Saint Mary's, Taylor University, Seton Hill College, and Mills College among others. 
He said that from what he has heard the proposal is an "abnormal fee increase," and because of this unusual in­crease he would be interested in receiving student input. 
"I would like to see if there is a wide-spread consensus by the students to have the increase, because they are the one's who pay the fee," said Osberger. 

Beatty, rectress of Lyons Hall. 
Father Stephen Newton, Sorin Hall rector, described du Lac as "a helpful reference source" in interpreting the consequences of certain actions. · 
Newton added that although it is helpful. du Lac could be made more useful with im­provements in the format. "I can never find what I'm looking for in the index," he said. 
suiting from the changes, de­spite all the obstacles that still must be overcome, the Hussian people turn out to be smarter than politicians think." 
The opposition was not swayed. 

"Gaidar is a con man," said Mikhail Astafiyev, a leader of the hard-line Russian Unity faction in Congress. 
"He will almost certainly have to resign," said Dmitri Stepanov, another Russian Unity member. 
Hard-liners want to slow Yeltsin's economic changes and drop Gaidar, the ar,chitect of the reforms. · 
Yeltsin has resisted lawmak­ers' demands that he nominate a prime minister for approval by the Congress. Because Gaidar is only "acting" prime minister, Yeltsin has not had to submit his nomination. 
But Vladimir Shumeiko. first deputy prime minister, said Yeltsin had decided to nominate Gaidar, even though he may not have the votes to push the appointment through. 

Gaidar's speech was met by jeers and stony faces from the rows of burly, middle-aged former Communists holdovers from the old regime who were elected in March 1990, 17 months before the coup attempt that led to the collapse of the Soviet Union. 
Deputies interrupted his message of optimism with deri­sive laughter. but Gaidar quickly resumed his rapid-fire defense. His arms were stiffly spread as he gripped the sides of the wide lectern of the Grand Kremlin Palace, which still bore the hammer-and-sickle seal of the Soviet Union. 
Yeltsin sat behind and above him on the podium, calmly overlooking the 1.041-member Congress of People's Deputies, Russia's highest parliamentary body. 




DuLac 
continued from page 1 
Resident dorm rectors agree that du Lac exists to verbally reinforce University guidelines and procedures. 
Keenan Hall Rector Brother Bonaventure Scully, a rector at NO for the past eight years, said that the changes he has witnessed in du Lac have been mostly in clarification of guide­lines for students under the permanent Catholic philosophy of Notre Dame. 
has not witnessed many signif­icant changes in the book, ad­ditions of harassment proce­dures and counseling services are helpful and necessary. 
Du Lac's guidelines are also educational because they pro­voke the realization that inci­dents such as assault and ha­rassment occur even on a campus such as Notre Dame's, according to Sister Kathleen 
"Du Lac offers basic rules 

If You Want to Be
which encourage a community of people to respect one an­
a Lawyer, · 
other," added Sister M.J. Grif­fin, rectress of Howard Hall. An NO rector for nine years, Griffin said that although she 
Sttu·t Practieiiw Now. 
Students 
One out of two people who take the LSAT don't 
get into law school. To improve those odds, continued from page 1 
Practice with Kaplan now--so you can be a 
practicing lawyer later. admission offices." he said. "I regret that more is not being Sign-up now for the February LSAT class! done to recruit international PHONE: 272-4135 students. I think the University should pay special attention to 
international student and in re­
KAPLAN
cruiting them." 
The answer to the test question.
Grubert also expressed sur­prise at the decrease in inter­national students because of 
DO YOU NEED 
past increases. "You have to remember that I 

HEALTH INSURANCE? 
am looking at the total number 
• Graduating?
of international student at all levels of the University," he 
• 19 or older and 
said. "The numbers given by 
maybe no longer

the Admission Offices and by the Graduate Office are num­
covered under 

bers of enrollments each years, not number of total interna­
your parent's 

tional students." 
policy?

"The University should try to establish an undergraduate 
• Between jobs? 
scholarship program for inter­
• Need better 
national students who don't have that opportunity of getting 
coverage?

federal scholarships, " Grubert said. "If we increase the total 
Call Georgia Mead at Acordia Collegiate
number of international stu­
Benefits at 1-800-257-6821 or (317) 885-2059.
dent, they would not feel so pressured by being a minority 
CALL TODAY FOR LOW COST IMMEDIATE 
and Notre Dame would gain 
health insurance coverage!
that much culture. That is what we should stride for," said Gru­
~rdia., Acordla CoUeglate
bert. 
• __.,_... Benefits 
FORD 
TOYOTA 
VOLVO 
MITSU SHI 
JEFF CELIE 

New & Used Cars & Trucks 609 E. Jefferson Blvd P.O. Box 370 Mishawaka, IN 46545 (219) 259,1981 ext. 632 
Toll Free, (800) 837,1981 ext. 632 Elkart Area Call (219) 674,9926 
• 
buy at $100 over dealer invoice 

•less 
college graduate rebate of $500 •possible $3,000 savings 


Hurry ln. For a limited time only on a one-year lease. 
Look at some of the great advantages Hickory Village offers: 
• 
BeeutHully Landscaped • Attentive Staff Grounds • Balcony or Patio 

• 
Clubhouse • 24-hour Emergency 

• 
Neat & Clean Laundry Maintenance Service Facilities • Air Conditioning 

• 
Cable TV Available • Planned Activities 

• 
Disposal • Free Aerobics 

• 
Sparkling Pool • Close To Shopping 


Stop by today and discover quality, affordable living. 
Efficiencies from only $250 
1-Bedrooms from only $265 
2-Bedrooms from only $325 

272-1880 
rHlCKORij 
DlLLAqEf! 
Mon.-Fri.~. 
Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 
.•. l 
The Observer 


Alumni offer grief workshop 
By JASON WILLIAMS News Writer 
The Notre Dame Alumni Of­fice is sponsoring a workshop on dealing with the grief which accompanies death and divorce this weekend at the Center For Social Concerns. 
Death, Divorce, Dismantled Dreams: Working Through the Pain is designed to help stu­dents, faculty and friends of the University deal with the emo­tional strain of losing loved ones, according to Kathleen Sullivan, Ph.D., director of Alumni Continuning Education. 
"This is a special service the University provides to show students and alumni that we care about them and that we understand what they're going through," she said. "lt's a pro­fessional program put on by professional people." 
Pat Reynolds, a counselor and Saint Mary's graduate, has volunteered her time to outline the workshop's format and make presentations to the group. Father Martin De­sereaux, a professional psy­chologist and Notre Dame graduate, will also make an ap­pearance. 
Approximately 45 persons from around the country have pre-registered for the sixth an­nual workshop, including six students. Sullivan said Notre Dame's peaceful atmosphere lures grieving individuals to the Alumni Associations particular program. 
"People tell me that they come back because they are able to feel safe and trust their feelings at Notre Dame," she said. 
Since the workshop is based on peer ministry, participants feel more confident knowing they will encounter other persons who have been through similar circumstances, said Sullivan. 
"We feel that Notre Dame's commitment to family and the depth of our program revolves around peer ministry," she said. "It's an opportunity for people to relate to each other in a safe, comfortable and caring 
FOR DElAILS ... 
BRING THIS ncKET TO FUNTAN, INC., STATE RD. 23 
UNIVERSITY COMMONS, SOUTH BEND, IN 
Charity
Band 
Night 
Tonight, December 4at 1 0 p.m. in Keenan Hall Basement 
$1 admission includes a50C coupon for Keenan HaD FoodSales Pmceeds go to charity 
Featuring: 
•
Dissfunktion 

•Thee 
Accent 

•
&rqpe for Luna 


. 

environment." 
The Alumni Office tracks down the files of alumni, faculty and students who have been involved with the death or di­vorce of a loved one within the last five years. The Office then with the help of Campus Min­istry sends out personal invita­tions to each person affected. 
Funding for the event comes from the Alumni Office of Con­tinuing Education which re­duces alumni and faculty costs by one third and reduces stu­dent participation fees to virtu­ally nothing. 
"The Alumni Association significantly underwrites the program," Sullivan said. "They turn something which would usually cost at least $150 per person into something much more affordable." 
Campus Ministry makes peer discussion groups and grief counseling available to students and faculty after this weekend. Persons with questions about the workshop or with grief counseling should contact Campus Ministry. 
E D D I E MURPHY The 
Distinguished Gentleman 

The Distinguished Gentleman R l!!J 
Fri: 5:11. 7:30. 10:00 Sai-Sul: 2:00, 5:00, 7:30, 10:00 
t> r rr;
pageS 

incidents ide Keenan 
investigating a possible 
suspect seen running from the 
ea at the time of the 

eXIJilosiion, he added. 
Se<~Ur'itY received a report at 

3:26 a.m. Thursday that a banner was on fire again at the southeast corner of Keenan, Rakow said. Security extinguished the fire and called the local fire 
·· departinent to check for other There · 
in-

U.S. prepares to send force of nearly 28,000 to Somalia 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Pentagon has ordered some 28,000 troops to stand by for deployment to Somalia once the United Nations approves plans to mount a military rescue mis­sion, a senior Pentagon official said Thursday. 
President Bush called his top military advisers to the White House and telephoned leaders around the globe seeking addi­tional forces for the effort to clear a way for food and other aid to reach starving Somalis. 
Bush and his advisers dis­cussed the risks of the military operation, said spokesman Marlin Fitzwater, "but the feel­ing was that the need there is great ... and that we can't allow the starvation to continue." 
Administration officials took pains to portray the proposed military intervention as a hu­manitarian effort, not a combat 
An 
Losr IN '---------' NEw YoRK 
HOME• 
AWNe2 
lPGI Home Alone II PG 
Fri: 4:30. 7:00, 8:30 Sal&n: 1:00, 4:30, 7:00, 8:30 

operation to seize hostile terri­tory. 
"We don't see this as a big invasion force," said Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams. "We are not looking to go in with guns blazing. I wouldn't expect a big confrontation." 
Fitzwater said, "Our purpose is first of all to ... get the aid through, and secondly to ac­complish that as rapidly as possible, and to turn it over to peacekeeping forces of the United Nations as soon as pos­sible." 
He even suggested that the 

U.S. forces could be out of So­malia by Jan. 20, when Presi­dent-elect Clinton takes office. "If we could have them out be­fore then, that certainly would be preferable," he told re­porters. 
But Williams also noted that Somalia is riddled with "lawless gangs of thugs" who have endangered relief workers and stolen food from humanitarian stocks, and that the military would have to create "safe areas, safe havens" and corridors for delivering relief supplies. 
Williams said 1,800 Marines aboard a three-ship amphibious strike force were off the coast of Somalia, awaiting further orders. 
Once the United Nations gives the green light. those Marines would move in to secure Mo­gadishu's port and airstrips, al­lowing other forces to flow in from the United States and other nations, a senior Pen­tagon official said. 
The largest contingent would be some 16,000 Marines from 

o-------------·-------C-h-in_es_e___A_m_e_r-:ic_a_n---~ the 1st Marine Expeditionary Restaurant & ~~~~.e from Camp Pendleton, Cocktail Lounge 
1\.uthentic Szechuan, d
Mandarin & Hm1an Cuisine In a secon wave, up to 
10,000 soldiers from the Army's light infantry 1Oth hes Startl.ng at $3 95 Mountain Division at Fort
Lunc ..... · 
D. · $5 95 Drum, N.Y.. will be added, said 
umers startmg at····· · the official, who commented Banquet rooms available for up to 200 Ionly on condition of anonymity. 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend Williams confirmed that units (nexttoRanilall'slnn) from Pendleton's 50,000
L--~==.:.:=::=-::.=::.:_________-===========-~Marines had been alerted to get 

Happy 21st Birthday Amy! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Michael and 
0 
your roomies 

L-----------------------------------~ 
ready to move, as well as ele­ments of the lOth Mountain Division, but he declined to say exactly how many might be sent to the East African nation. 
In line to command the ven­ture on the scene is Marine Lt. Gen. Robert Johnston, who was one of Gen. Norman Schwarzkopfs top aides in the Persian Gulf War and is the commander of the 1st Marine Expeditionary Force. 
At the White House, Gen. Joseph Hoar, the Central Command chief who drew up the plans for the mission, met with Bush. D'efense Secretary Dick Cheney and Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 

Tanker crashes near Spain 
Ecological disaster 
feared as oil s ills in fishing grounds 
LA CORUNA, Spain (AP) -A 
said two or three of the ship'stanker crashed onto rocks out­
nine tanks had ruptured. He side a fog-shrouded harbor en­said each tank held an average trance Thursday, breaking of 2.7 million gallons of crude 
apart in heavy seas and spilling oil. millions of gallons of crude oil "We believe about two-thirds that threatened the area's rich of the oil is on the ship, and oil 
fishing grounds. 
from two or three tanks has Hundreds of people fled their gone into the sea," Gomis said. homes after an explosion tore Officials said the accident oc­
the stern loose and set off an curred close to the spot where inferno only a few yards off­
the Spanish tanker Urquiola ran 
shore five hours after the ship aground and exploded in May ran aground. All 29 crew 1976, spilling 30 million gallonsmembers were rescued from of oil. Most of that cargo burned 
the Greek ship, officials said. up, but oil still caused damageCuriosity seekers gathered along 130 miles of coastline. 
along the rugged coastline of By comparison, the super­this city of 250,000 to watch tanker Exxon Valdez spilledhuge orange flames boiling almost 11 million gallons of oil 
from the stern section. Fire into Alaska's Prince William 
licked from oil alongside the for Spain's Repsol company, Sound in 1989. tanker and thick, black smoke which chartered the tanker,
r 
billowed high over the city, which is on Spain's northwest­ern corner about 280 miles 
ND Men

from Madrid. Authorities said an oil slick up to a mile wide stretched 12
I Beware!
miles northeastward up the 
f coast of Galicia, as the region is known. 
f Environmentalists expressed
• fears for fishing grounds . 
Moira's 20 
Fishing is Galicia's most impor­tant industry. 
l The tanker, the Aegean Sea, 
r 
was carrying an estimated 23 million gallons of crude from 
Love,

I Britain's main North Sea oil­loading terminal at Sullom Voe f to a refinery in La Coruna when 
Carrie Liz, Jules, 
it ran aground about 5 a.m. Antonio Gomis, a spokesman
t Kand Oif 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP)­Bad planning and a lack of ammunition held up deploy­ment of National Guard soldiers mobilized to help quell rioting in Los Angeles following the Rodney King beating verdicts, a report says. 
Retired Lt. Gen. William Har­rison said in the document Wednesday that deployment of 2,000 Guard members was delayed by more th(ln six hours, even though they teported to their armories Apr. 30 by 4 a.m., two hours early. 
"The performance of individ­ual guardsmen and guardswomen was phenome­nal," he said. "Unfortunately, they did not have ammunition, 
The Department of Music Presents A FACUL1Y CONCERT 1(aren 'Buransl(as, ce[[ist and Wi[Ciam Cerny, pianist MUSIC OF BoULANGER, REGER AND KABALEVSKY Sunday December6 2:00p.m. Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art The concert is free and open to the public  
otre ame ncounter A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACUL TV & STAFF An opportunity, In dialogue with others, to deepen your understand­ing of yourself, your values, your relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian community and service. RETREAT February 5-7, 1993DATES: FORMS December 7-11AVAILABLE: SIGN UP December 11DEADLINE: CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh library 239-7800 COST: $25.00 0MPUS MINISTRY  

page 6 
The Observer Friday, December 4, 1992 
Report says planning errors delayed soldiers in L.A. riots 
they didn't have proper equip­ment and they didn't have proper training" in civil distur­bances. 
Harrison prepared the report at the request of Gov. Pete Wil­son, who said the foul-ups out­lined by the 72-page document might appear to be a "comedy of errors." 
"But in light of the serious­ness of the situation there wasn't anything very laughable about it," the governor said. 
Rioting broke out Apr. 29, after a jury with no black members acquitted three white Los Angeles police officers and partially acquitted a fourth of charges in the beating of King, a black motorist. 
Get Your Rallpasscs For 1993 at 1991 Prices! 
•Ell'lit Aalpass 5wAn 15 ~ $180* •Youth Aalpass 15wfln 2roonths $410* •Youth 1month pass $470* 
"Rates scheduled to rise as much as 20% on Jon 1,1993. Passes l!i5uedin 1992ore !jOOd for trow:!, Ifveildoted within slx months from issue dote. 
Council Travel 
1993-94 RA APPLICATIONS 
Are Now Available 
Office of Student Affairs 315 Main Building Through Friday, January 22, 1993 
1153 N. Deabom St, ~d Flcx:r Olicaso, 1160610 

311·951·0585 Call for a Free copy of The Student Travels Magazine! 
The Observer page 7 
Friday, December 4, 1992 
Egypt: Iran training terrorists 
CAIRO, Egypt (AP) -More than 2,000 Iranian revolution­ary guards are training Muslim extremists in Sudan to conduct terrorist attacks in Egypt, Egypt's top law enforcement officer said in an interview published Wednesday. 
Iran's chief justice, Mo­hammed Yazdi, denied reports that Iran has military forces in Sudan as "an unfounded lie." He spoke in the Sudanese capi­tal, Khartoum, where he was on an official visit. 
In the interview with the gov­ernment-owned magazine Al­mussawar, Egyptian Interior Minister Abdel-Halim Moussa said "more than 2,000 members of Iran's Revolutionary Guards are in Sudan to train extremists." 
Moussa said evidence of Iran's involvement in terrorist training in Sudan, which lies along Egypt's southern border, emerged from interrogations of captured extremists. 
Egyptian-Iranian relations have long been strained. Presi­dent Hosni Mubarak last month 


Happy 21st Birthday, Amy! 
Love, Joe 

accused Iran of trying to impose its hegemony on Arab states in the gulf and warned Egypt would defend them. 
Moussa said Egyptian au­thorities foiled efforts by Ali As­ghar Mohammadi, Iran's top diplomat in Cairo, to "meet with extremist elements" and hinted he might be expelled. 
Telephone calls to the Iranian mission for comment went unanswered. The phone at Mohammadi's residence was either busy or out of order. 
In the absence of diplomatic ties, severed by Iran in 1979 to protest Egypt's peace treaty with Israel, Tehran is repre­sented in Cairo by an. interests section at the Swiss Embassy. 
So far this year, 77 people have been killed in an upsurge of religious extremist violence targeting government officials, Christians and foreign tourists. The violence is aimed at replac­ing Egypt's secular government with an Islamic regime. 
The most recent victim was 
police Capt. Ali Mohamed 
Khatir, who died today from a 
gunshot wound to the head suf­
fered in a fight last week be­
tween a suspected terrorist and 
police in Alexandria, in north­
ern Egypt along the Mediter­
ranean. 
British police accuse IRA of bombing in Manchester 
MANCHESTER, England (AP) -Two bombs went off at rush hour in central Manchester on Thursday, injuring 65 people. The government blamed the outlawed Irish Republican Army. 
Only one of the injuries was serious, a 23-year-old store clerk whose spine was dam­aged by debris from the second explosion that cascaded onto a street where he had been evacuated after the first blast. 
Callers telephoned a suicide counseling center and a radio station seven minutes after the first explosion and said four bombs had been planted in the city, police said. 
But Commander David Tucker, the nation's anti-ter­rorist coordinator, said the warnings, from callers using an IRA code-word, gave imprecise or wrong information about the location of the bombs. 
"That is by design and not by accident," Tucker said in Lon­don. 
Most of the injured were hit 

by shards of flying glass in the 
second explosion, which oc­
curred on a street alongside the city's Anglican cathedral where people had taken shelter. 
"They were pretty shaken. Having already experienced one explosion they thought they were safe in the cathedral," said the acting bishop of Manchester, the Rt. Rev. Colin Scott. 
The mainly Roman Catholic IRA is fighting to end British rule in Northern Ireland and unite the Protestant-dominated province with the Republic of Ireland. It is banned on both sides of the border. 
riddle has broken 
records since the game 
was introduced three years 
ago on Razi Bin'kars popular 
phone-in show. 
The prize money, donated 
by the bank that sponsors the 
show, starts at $2.000 and 
rises hy $40 each time a 
wrong am;wer is broadcast. 

It's not the money .;..... bigger prizes are offered by state lotteries and bingo-style newspaper games. "The real a,ttraetlon is the challenge." · Moshe Cna'an, who won 
To: On..Campus Students FROM: University of Notre Dame Telecommunications Office 
The University is replacing the telephone systems that have served the campus for more than a decade. This decision was made last spring and is a result of several factors, including service reliability and capacity. Also, the manufacturer of the systems, AT & T, has given notice that it will no longer supply replacement parts. One system will provide service to all areas of the campus after December 26, 1992. The new system will make an immediate improvement in service to students in that it has more capacity and will, therefore, have fewer busy signals for callers attempting to dial an off-campus number. 
Another new feature will be the capability of dialing all campus numbers with only five digits. Although residence hall phones will have a new prefix, 634, almost all phones will retain the last four digits of the current phone number. 
Faculty and administrative phone numbers will have a new prefix, 631, and also retain the last four digits in most cases. Callers dialing the old numbers will get a message giving them the new number for the six,month period following the implementation of the new system. Another added benefit of the new system is the 911 emergency number feature. Specific information regarding this new capability will be distributed to all residence halls. 
The use of computer modems and answering machines in student rooms will not be affected by the new system. Some modems may need to be re,programmed to call numbers with a new prefix. 
During the summer, stt;tdent phones will be replaced with a different type of instrument that will allow voice mail service to each room. . 
The size and scope of this telephone system replacement is very large. Every effort is being made to minimize the inconvenience to students and all other members of the University community. Your patience will be appreciated. 
If you have any questions or need additional information, please contact the Telecommunications Office at 239,6014. 
~~------------­

page 8 The Observer Friday, December 4, 1992 
Neo-Nazi groups Skinhead rock music banned in Germany 
meet in beer hall 
COTTBUS, Germany (AP) ­Wearing heavy paratrooper boots and bomber jackets stitched with crosses and swastika-like patches, members of one of Germany's main neo­Nazi groups begin packing Arno Beier's tavern for its weekly "comradeship evening." 
Time for members of the German Alternative to toss down a few beers, slander refugees and plot a path to power. 
Adolf Hitler got his start this way, convening Nazi meetings in a Munich beer hall. 
Frank Huebner, the 26-year­old leader of German Alterna­tive, uses Beier's tavern to in­struct his followers. 
With at least 400 members and a growing number of youthful sympathizers, Hueb­ner's gang is viewed as a threat in this eastern German city. 
German news media say that when city council elections oc­cur in 1994, German Alterna­tive could even win some seats. 
"They've been trying to pass themselves off as a harmless organization. But they're a pack of wolves in sheep's cloth­ing," says Berndt Fleischer, police spokesman in this city of 140,000 people. 
[ About 40 extremists filled 
Beier's pub on a recent
l Wednesday night. Some had shaved heads and 
dressed in bomber jackets with crosses, swastika-like designs and other neo-Nazi insignia. 
Huebner could pass for a businessman. A short man, Huebner wore a black tie, blue­striped shirt and dress slacks as he mingled with comrades. 
While Huebner's appearance is disarming, his group's mes­sage is not. 
One of his bodyguards, with the build of a stevedore, hollered it was time to go into a beer hall, attached to the main bar, where the group holds its gatherings. 
"The press will not be al­lowed inside," Huebner told· about a dozen reporters. "You'll only write bad things about us." 
The hall's huge doors closed and the bodyguard blocked entry, arms folded with a scowl on his face. 
After the killing last month of three Turks in an arson attack in the north German city of Moelln, the government banned the· neo-Nazi group Nationalistic Front and said others like it may face the same fate. 
But Huebner's gang seems undeterred. 
"You can ban an organiza­tion, but you can't ban what someone thinks," said one member, a tall man with a good job as an engineer. "We'll just chango our name." 
~et BnLvJfk 5-~ ~,wut! 
9'1u1t c.yillVL illunc~ illa.-te tl'L Sec"Let Santa a§~t m 

e~te~ • pAJ-in~eU~ • egiL~tm~ K~a/U> and mnde.Q1. fk££aon.'l! 
gn tKe Ka~emenf of .£aS:o..,.tune t)p.en ti£f(~ednNda:J, CJ)IU'.. 9 l'\<1a/0Tlt aec.ep.td. CJl.,Jiv£'-:-J to. ~)l~Jl/~01lt and o.ff c.at!_lpu.Q ap.a ·d men L~ 


She May Have Turned 21, But 
She's Still 
Harmless! 
Happy B-Day Rosel 
Love, 
Blah & Burning 

BERLIN (AP) -The govern­The ban prohibits the sale, ment has banned the music of manufacture and distribution of several neo-Nazi rock groups, the groups' music, but the gov­including one that urges Ger­ernment has given no indication mans to kill Turkish children that it int~nds to prosecute and rape their mothers. band members themselves or to 
German officials have been take action against Rock-0­groping for ways to halt right­Rama, a Cologne-based record wing violence, mostly directed firm that markets and sells at foreigners, that has left 16 skinhead music worldwide. people dead this year. 
A federal censorship office Lawmaker Roland Sauer said said Wednesday that it was out­the bands affected are Endstufe lawing numerous songs from at (Final Stage) of Bremen; Noie least five so-called "skinhead" Werte (New Values) of\ Stuttgart; bands. Kahlkopf (Bald Head) of Oberursel and Sperrzone (Prohibited Area) of Bruchsal. The music of the notorious Sto­erkraft (Disturbing Force) was banned in October. 
Sauer said in addition to the catalogues of the five groups, the government banned a song called "Kanaken," a German racial epithet for foreigner. 
The song urges neo-Nazis to "annihilate" Turks, Germany's largest immigrant group, and says: "Kill their children, rape their women." There are 1.6 million Turks in Germany. 
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA 
JOSEPHINE HAYNES, et al., Plaintiffs.  )  
v SHONEY'S, INC., et al., Defendants.  ) )  No. PCA 89-30093-RV  

NOTICE OF PROPOSED CLASS ACTION SETTLEMENT AND CONSENT DECREE 
TO: BLACK PERSONS WHO ( 1) UNSUCCESSFULLY APPLIED FOR EMPLOYMENT, (2) WOULD HAVE APPLIED FOR EMPLOYMENT BUT FOR THEiR BELIEFS OF RACIALLY BIASED HIRING PRACTICES AGAINST BLACK PERSONS, OR (3) ARE CURRENTLY OR HAVE BEEN EMPLOYED AT SHONEY'S, INC.'S CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS IN NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE OR ANY SHONEY'S, CAPTAIN D'S, LEE'S FAMOUS RECIPE, FIFTH QUARTER, OR PARGO'S RESTAURANTS OWNED AND OPERATED BY SHONEY'S, INC. 
Shoney's, Inc. and Raymond L. Danner have agreed to settle an employment discrimination class action lawsuit now pending in the United States District Court in Pensacola, Florida. The lawsuit claimed that Shoney's, lnc. and Raymond L. Danner discriminated against black applicants for employment and black employees at Shoney's, Inc.'s Corporate Headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee and at Shoney's, Captain D's, Lee's Famous Recipe, Fifth Quarter, or Pargo's Restaurants owned and operated by Shoney's, Inc. 
THE PURPOSE OF THIS NOTICE IS TO ADVISE: 
• 
OF THE STATUS OF THE LAWSUIT, INCLUDING A STATEMENT OF YOUR RIGHTS WITH RESPECT TO A PROPOSED SETTLEMENT OF THE CASE 

• 
IF YOU HAVE A POTENTIAL CLAIM AS AN APPLICANT, THE REQUIREMENT THAT YOU MUST MAIL A REQUEST FOR CLAIM FORM 

• 
IF YOU ARE A CURRENT OR FORMER EMPLOYEE, YOU MAY MAlL A REQUEST FOR CLAIM FORM IN ORDER TO ASSURE THAT THERE IS A RECORD OF YOUR CORRECT CURRENT ADDRESS 

• 
OF THE OPPORTUNITY TO FILE WITH THE COURT AN OBJECTION TO THE SETTLEMENT 


1. The Affected Classes. The following persons may be entitled to receive benefits, including a monetary award, 
established in the proposed settlement: All black persons who unsuccessfully applied for employment at any time between February 4, 1965 and November 3, 1992 at Shoney's, Inc.'s Corporate Headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee or at any restaurant owned and operated by Shoney's, Inc. (Applicants); All black persons who are current or former employees at Shoney's, Inc.'s corporate headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee or at any restaurant owned and operated by Shoney's, Inc. and who were employed in one or more of those restaurants between February 4, 1965 and November 3, 1992 (Current or Former Employees); and All black persons who would have applied for employment at any time between February 4, 1965 and November 3, 1992 at Shoney's, Inc.'s corporate headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee or at any restaurant owned and operated by Shoney's, Inc. but failed to apply because of their belief that Shoney's, Inc. engaged in racially biased hiring practices against black persons (Constructive Applicants). 
2. 
Terms of Proposed Settlement. Subject to Court approval, the plaintiffs and defendants have agreed to the entry of a Decree by the Court that establishes certain hiring goals, a settlement fund and certain injunctive relief agreed to in order to satisfy claims of the flaintiffs and class members and to pay attorneys' fees, costs, and other expenses of litigation and settlement. This relie will be in final settlement of all claims by the plaintiffs and class members against Shoney's, Inc. and Raymond L. Danner for claims of employment discrimination and/or retaliation because of race that were raised or could have been raised in this case. 

3. 
The Settlement Fund. The proposed Decree requires Shoney's, Inc. to establish a Settlement Fund in the amount of $105,000,000.00 for payments to qualified claimants and for payment of some expenses that will be incurred in the settlement and claims process, not including attorneys' fees. Pursuant to the Decree, Shoney's, Inc. also has agreed to pay Class Counsel's attorneys fees, costs and expenses. The Settlement Fund will be used to pay monetary awards to qualified class members who comply with the claims procedure required by the Court. The exact amount of funds to be paid from the Settlement Fund for which a claimant might be eligible will be determined by the claims procedure, eligibility requirements and other limitations set forth in the Decree. Payments to qualified claimants will be made over a specified period of time as required by the Decree. Constructive Applicants will generally receive the benefits of the equitable hiring goals established by the Decree but will not be eligible to receive a monetary award from the Settlement Fund. 

4. 
Claims Procedure for Applicants. If you are a member of the Applicant class mentioned above and want to be eligible for participation in the settlement, you must submit a written Request for Claim Form; a sample is printed at the bottom of this notice. THE REQUEST FOR CLAiM FORM MUST BE SENT TO THE COURT CLERK'S OFFICE AT THE ADDRESS SHOWN BELOW AND MUST BE POSTMARKED NO LATEA THAN January 11, 1993. If the proposed Decree is given final approval by the Court, you will be sent a specific Claim Form only if you have previously sent a Request for C[aim Form stating that you may want to file a claim. Each claimant must complete and return the Claim Form in accordance with the instructions on the Claim Form. PLEASE NOTE THAT SENDING A REQUEST FOR CLAIM FORM OR RETURNING THE ACTUAL CLAIM FORM DOES NOT GUARANTEE YOUR PARTICIPATION IN THE SETTLEMENT FUND. 

5. 
Claims Procedure for Current or Former Employees. If you are a member of the Current or Former Employee Class, you may file a Request for Claim Form to assure that there is a record of your current address. Shoney's, Inc. will be mailing claim forms to all Current or Former Employees for whom Shoney's, Inc. has a valid, current address. Shoney's, Inc.'s records, however, may not contain a correct address. It is your responsibility to assure that Class Counsel has your correct address. 

6. 
Other Affirmative Relief. The proposed Decree also establishes goals for hiring Black persons in certain positions with Shoney's, Inc., implementation of an internal complaint procedure, training and educational programs, as well as other obligations. 

7. 
Binding Effect. The proposed Decree, if finally approved by the Court, will be binding on all class members and will bar any person who is a member of the classes from seeking relief other than that provided for in the Decree from Shoney's, Inc. or Danner for claims of employment discrimination and/or retaliation because of race. Class members will not be allowed to exclude themselves from the terms of the Decree. 

8. 
Objections to the Consent Decree. If you believe that the proposed Decree should not be finally approved for any reason, you may present your objection at a hearing on January 25, 1993, at 1:00 p.m. at the United States District Court, United States Courthouse, 100 North Palafox Street, Pensacola, Florida. Any member of the settlement classes who wants to object to the proposed Decree must file an objection and appear at the hearing. The objections must be filed in writing with the United States District Court Clerk's Office, with service of copies upon Class Counsel and for the defendants, on or before January 11, 1993. Any attorney who will represent an individual objecting to the Decree must file a notice of appearance with the Court and serve counsel for all parties on or before the same date. 

9. 
Clerk's Address. The Clerk's address is: Office of the Clerk, United States District Court, Northern District of Florida, United States Courthouse, 100 North Palafox Street, Pensacola, Florida 32501. All Request for Claim Forms or other correspondence must state the name and number of the case, Haynes v. Shoney's Inc., No. PCA 89-30093-RV. 

10. 
Class Counsel/Further Information. If you change your address after sending in the Request for Claim Form, it is your obligation to inform Class Counsel in writing. Failure to report a change of address may result in a qualified claimant being barred from receiving the benefits of the settlement. If you have any questions about the Decree, you may call or write the offices of Class Counsel at the following addresses or call the toll free number listed below: 


Thomas A. Warren Barry L. Goldstein 501 East Tennessee Street/SuiteD Saperstein, Mayeda, Larkin & 
P.O. Drawer 1657 Goldstein Tallahassee, Florida 32302 1300 Clay Street/11th Floor Tel. 1-600-950-1556 Oakland, California 94612 
They or 'SOmeone from their office .will talk to you free of charge. YOU MAY OBTAIN A COPY OF THE DECREE AT YOUR EXPENSE. TO OBTAIN A COPY, YOU MUST CONTACT THE OFFICE OF THE U.S, DISTRICT COURT CLERK AT THE ADDRESS SET FORTH ABOVE. 
11. Address of Defense Counsel. For purposes of serving copies of any objections, the address for service on counsel for the Defendants is: James G. Ramsey, Farris, Warfield & Kanaday, Suite 1900, Third National Financial Center, Nashville, TN 37219 
If the Settlement is not approved by the Court, no money will be paid and the case will proceed to trial. However, there is no assurance that any later decision would be in favor of class members, and if it were, that it would be as favorable to the class members as this settlement. 
Dated this 24th day of November, 1992. 
Clerk of Court, United States District Court, Northern District of Florida, Pensacola Division 
Haynes v. Shoney's, Inc. -PCA-69-30093-RV (N.D. Fla.) REQUEST FOR CLAIM FORM 
NAME (Last) (First) (Middle Initial) 
PRESENT ADDRESS  City  State  Zip Code  
HOME PHONE (Include Area Code) MAU...IQ; Olllce of the Clerk United Statal District Court Northern District of Florida United Statal Courthouse 100 North Palafox Street Penucola, Florida 32501  SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER TO RECEIVE A CLAIM FORM(S), CHECK THE BOX(ES) WHICH APPLY: APPLICANT: 0 CURRENT EMPLOYEE: 0 FORMER EMPLOYEE: 0  

Signature 

Business 
Friday, December 4, 1992 page 9 
Top two o· cash in on 
among history's porate edged that options sensitive." 
Larger investors, tavvmaJ and shareholders rights have been increasingly· of big compensation pai~Kag~ Recent publiCity has on the estimated $81 stock given Coca-<:ola .• chief executive and the million in salary and options paid the head General Dynamics Corp. 
Eisner and Wells could have waited until 1994 to exercise their options, but they s::t1H:F,.,..;;'mo"ltA:'11tr likely changes in tax Jaw would Sitot:klQ¢<1baiilgf'l. 
By ELISABETH HEARD 
Business Writer 
Earning money for college can be a lot of hard work, but junior Scott Dennis has found a formula for success. 
Dennis has been selling Cut Co Cutlery in his home state of Missouri for the past two years, resulting in not only earning money for school, but also has become the recipient of a scholarship by the Vector Mar­keting Corporation. 
"I worked for a marketing firm (Vector) over the summer," Dennis said, "and I sold Cut Co Cutlery which was basically kitchen cutlery and fishing and sporting knives." 
Dennis' job turned out to be very profitable. "I sold $36,000 worth of knives," he said. 
Dennis stated that a full set ranges from $400 to $600 while individual knives are anywhere from $30 to $40. 
This outstanding number of sales earned him Vector Mar­keting's third place scholarship of $800 which placed him two places higher than his summer of 1991 finish of fifth place. 
"I got started right out of high school," Dennis said. "I was sitting around during my spring break of my senior year, and I saw an ad in the paper. So I decided to give it a try." 
Ever since then, Dennis has gone on to sell thousands of knives and soar ahead in sales. He was one of the top two in a ten-state region, earning him a trip to Jamaica. 
While spending his first summer selling the product only to friends, he began to re­ceive referrals for other people who were interested in the knives. 
"My next year I mostly showed my product to referrals, and 85 percent of the people ended up buying something. The product basically sells itself." 
Vector Marketing has been very profitable for Dennis, and he will continue with them at least in the immediate future. "I don't plan to make a career of it," said Dennis. "But I do 
Keating launches defense in federal fraud trial 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Charles Keating Jr.'s son-in-law testified about years of business successes as Keating launched his defense against charges that he lived like a king on looted money and left taxpayers with the bill. 
Robert Wurzelbacher Jr. told jurors Wednesday how Keat­ing's Phoenix-based American Continental Corp. sold more than $1.4 billion in real estate before the empire collapsed in 1989 with the seizure of its Lin­coln Savings subsidiary. 
The success stories outlined by Wurzelbacher, who was also a top real estate aide to Keat­ing, opened the defense at Keating's federal fraud and racketeering trial. The defense portrays him as a victim of an Arizona real estate bust and vindictive government officials. 
Keating is putting up a de­fense for the first time to charges he swindled investors at Irvine-based Lincoln and lived lavishly on looted funds. The bailout of Lincoln cost tax­payers an unprecedented $2.6 billion. 
The fallen land developer and financier has said he wants to tell his side of the story.But Keating's lawyer, Stephen Neal, hasn't said if he will take the stand. 
GM targets seven plants for closings 
DETROIT (AP) -General Motors Corp. said today it will close seven, and maybe as many as nine, plants in the next few years to complete its consolidation plan aimed at restoring the troubled com­pany's health. 
Among them are plants in Michigan, Delaware, New York and Ohio. 
The plants employ about 18,000 people, some of whom will be able to move with the work. Others will be laid off and placed in a pool of workers re­ceiving up to their full benefits. "With these actions, we now have a plan in place to reach our production capacity goal of 
5.4 million units by the mid­1990s, which we believe to be in line with market demand for our products," GM Chief Exec­utive Jack Smith said in a statement. A United Auto Workers statement blamed management for the cuts. In December 1991, GM said that it would close 21 assembly, com­ponents and engine plants and eliminate 74,000 jobs by the end of 1995. Fourteen of the plants were announced previ­ously. 
The plants whose closure was announced today are: 
•Wilmington, 
Del., an assembly plant with 3,500 em­ployees. 

•Kalamazoo, 
Mich., a metal stamping plant with 3,100 em­ployees. 

•Syracuse, 
N.Y., a parts plant with 1,300 employees. 

•Euclid, 
Ohio, a parts plant with 550 employees. 

•Ewing, 
N.J., (suburb of Trenton), a parts plant with 2,050 employees. 

•Livonia, 
Mich., a parts plant with 2,000 employees. 

•Sioux 
City, Iowa, a parts plant with 200 employees. 


In additi<m, GM said it has no future product assigned to its truck assembly plant in Flint, Mich., which has 4,450 work­ers. It could be assigned the next Chevrolet and GMC Truck full-size vans, or, if not, would be closed. 
In St. Catharines, Ontario, a rear-axle operation with 800 employees will be put up for sale; if no buyer is found, its operations will be consolidated. And the previously announced closing of the casting plant at St. Catharines will be speeded up, GM said. 
In addition, GM said it has no future product assigned to its truck assembly plant in Flint, Mich., which has 4,450 work­ers. It could be assigned the next Chevrolet and GMC Truck full-size vans. 



An early report by a union official that a plant in Buffalo, 
N.Y... was among those to be closed was erroneous, said GM spokesman Thomas Pyden. 
UAW officials said saying management "put quick profits 
AP 

and Wall Street demands ahead of all else. It is clear that only different principles and new priorities will guide this corpo­ration back to health." 
"We believe more strongly than ever that American jobs are worth fighting for, and we will act accordingly to defend and enforce the contractural rights," said UAW President Owen Bieber and Vice President Stephen Yokich. 
ND junior-earns scholarship for sales 
plan to work there next sum­mer either selling or running an office." 
The goal of winning the number one scholarship for selling the most products in the nation still shines brightly for Dennis. 
"I would love to be number one," he said. "The number one spot only gets $1000, but the company also gives the school $1000. I think it would be great to be able to make a contribution to Notre Dame.'' 
Working at Vector Marketing has been a one of the more re­warding experiences for Den­nis, especially in terms of gaining business experience for the future. 
"I really enjoyed it, without a doubt. You are totally in control of your own business, there is great competition, and how well you do is totally up to you." 
"Because of Vector, I might want to go into engineering sales. It has definitely influ­enced me about what to do in the future." 
Clinton still for middle class tax cut 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) ­President-elect Clinton remains committed to including a modest middle­class tax cut in his ultimate economic package, even while seeking more flexibility 
in his short-term plan,  a  
spokesman said today.  
"It's part of his plan  ...  it  

needs to stay in," said communications director George Stephanopoulos. 
He was asked about speculation that the proposed tax break -which Clinton campaigned on -might be jettisoned to help offset costs of spendfng to stimulate the economy. 
Stephanopoulos said a cen­tral part of Clinton's economic campaign message was that "in the 1980s the tax system got out of whack" and that the middle-income tax break was "one small downpayment" on rectifying it. 
Clinton has never spelled out the precise scope of the tax cut, but has suggested middle-income taxpayers would have a choice of either a modest tax break or an expanded deduction for children. It would be coupled with nigher taxes on households earning more than $200,000 a year. 
Stephanopoulos said that, in addition to a long-term ecQ­nomic package, Clinton hoped to have a short-term stimulus plan ready to go soon after his inauguration. 
He said recent economic data -mostly showing an improvement in the economy -was being analyzed before deciding on how much of a stimulus package would be needed. 
Clinton would like to leave his options open on the short term package, Stephanopoulos said. 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, December 4, 1992 
The Observer 


NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Chill out during exams, and drink a cup of cheer 

Alcohol policy should not be changed 
Dear Editor: ternity among Notre Dame stu­until 2 a.m. At 2 a.m. the 
The juniors are meeting with dents. By allowing alcohol on members of the opposite sex in representatives of the adminis­campus the University shows the dormitory must leave. tration to discuss altering the that they trust the responsibility These regulations make sure alcohol policy of Notre Darpe. I of the students. Many students that parties do not interfere believe that the present remain on campus all four with studies, and they also help interpretation of the alcohol years of college at Notre Dame, control pre-marital sex. The policy in du Lac should remain because they have the freedom parties on campus are drug at the University. to party with all the benefits of free, and help is never far away. 
The alcohol policy which campus. designates the University as a Regulated parties are a "wet campus" should remain By retaining the upperclass positive aspect of the alcohol intact, because the benefits are people, the underclass people policy that establishes Notre safety, friendship, and have the opportunity to learn Dame as a "wet campus." regulation. positively from the more Students will still drink 
Safety is increased when responsible upperclass people. whether or not Notre Dame is a parties are confined to the If the campus went "dry", there "dry campus" or a "wet cam­Notre Dame campus. Drinking would be a mass migration of pus." With no fraternities or and driving is eliminated, be­students off-campus. sororities, Notre Dame students cause students walk to and With a major segment of the have nowhere to drink from parties on campus. Stu­population off-campus, a true presently, except for in their dents socialize on campus bonding that only comes rooms or off-campus. where security is tight. through common living could 
If the alcohol policy changed not develop. Most students choose to party the University to a "dry A "wet campus" at Notre on campus because it is safe, campus" many students would Dame helps regulate the par­friendly and regulated. The wander into South Bend to find ties. The "wet campus" is an at­alcohol policy in du Lac a party or a bar where some traction that helps to keep most establishing Notre Dame as a students could be assaulted. people on campus, and conse­"wet campus" creates a safe, The creation of a "dry campus" quently, most parties on cam­friendly and regulated place would endanger the safety of pus. where students may party. the Notre Dame student who The parties are regulated by would definitely venture off­rector's assistants, rectors, and Seth Messner campus to party. rectresses who allow parties on Morrissey Hall 
A "wet campus" builds fra-Friday and Saturday nights Dec.2,1992 

Dear Editor: 
I was very disturbed Wednesday night wheJ;t I was confronted by an extremely rude young woman while leaving my dorm. 
As I was leaving, she was opening the door, and I apparently hurt her hand, causing her to sneer, throw a nasty comment my way and fly past me when I asked her if she was okay. No response. 
Oh well. Another one bites the dust in the onslaught of stress, the exam grinch that does its best to steal the limelight from 
Dear Editor: 
What a surprise, and delight, to read the letter by Professor Edward J. Murphy of the Law School, writing in support of the Catholic Church's ban on the ordination of women. 
It was surprising because Catholic fundamentalists such as Professor Murphy rarely cite Anglican heretics such as Eliz­abeth II, much less Henry VIII, in support of their own theolog­ical positions. 
the significance of this season of giving. 
It's very easy to forget others while weighted down with your own pressing exams and papers. It is hard, however, to fully enjoy the Christmas season when you don't begin to do so until Dec. 19th. For everyone's sake, let us all put forth a sincere effort to chill and to drink a tall cup of cheer. 
Beth Seymour Breen-Phillips Hall 
Dec.2,1992 
It was a delight because, as an Episcopalian myself, I can hardly wait to see what Professor Murphy will write when Queen Elizabeth performs her duty, consents to the will of the vast majority of MP's and other Britons, and approves the ordination of women. 
Kern R. Trembath Assistant Chairman Department of Theology 
Dec.2,1992 



Viewpoint
Friday, December 4, 1992 page 11 
Hopefully, Clinton prefers X-Men to Superman 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
First verse of fight song is forgotten by students 

Tying a double-knot in my sneakers on Thanksgiving was when I decided to become a poet. Not that there was any connection, other than that we had been talking over dinner about the death of Superman, which someone had said seemed like a favorable astro­logical sign for a major career change. 
Andrew Cutrofello Subterranean Homesick Politics 
I had passed up on dessert so as not to spoil my appetite for· Dave's Doughnuts T-Day Spe­cial. Luckily, I remembered, Denise would be joining us there. She recently told me that she had been trying her hand at haiku. 
f:onsulting an insider, I figured, might give me a leg up in my new career. Would that be unfair? Hey, I ruthlessly told my conscience, take no prisoners. Poetry is cut-throat. And what I really wanted was a job as poet laureate in the Clin­ton Administration. 
I recited my first effort, a rough draft sketched during commercials, to the entire crowd at Dave's. Intertextually alluding to Dante, I read the concluding stanza: 
"So take no prisoners, ye who would enter these gates, Be not proud nor contumely 
of Water-and Contragates... " -at this, I nodded meaningfully to Jocelyn, the politico among us "Women and Men of '92" as Hank liked to call us­
" Lest thou forsake the heart of the order, For whither thou goeth, thou goeth to Death's border." 
Hank placed his hand on my shoulder and gave me an earnest, solemn look. "Wouldst thou a jelly doughnut liketh?" 
Denise said, "Uh, keep at it." 
I gave her a nod that said "from one professional to an­other, thanks." 
"So you call this 'Ode to Su­perman'?" Dex wanted to know. 
"I think it's 'Eau de Super­man,"' Hank said. "Like the cologne." 
Jocelyn laughed. 
"Hey," I said, encouraged by their enthusiasm. "How'd you like the part where I compare Lois Lane to Lana Lang? Bet you never noticed the similar alliteration before, huh?" 
"But guys," Dex protested, "this poem's not about Super­man. You're all being too literal. The Superman motif is just a pretext, a smoke screen, a red herring-'-" 
"-a pickled pepper," Hank interrupted. "To quote from another famous poem." 
Ignoring Hank, Dex ex­plained, "We have just been treated to an epic-heroic poem about the possibility of hope in 

an age without heroes." "Who needs heroes when you've got subs?" Hank said. 
Dex was pointing out things even 1-the poet--:-hadn't real­ized. For the first time in my life, I felt the awesome power of words. 
"Look," Dex continued. "Can we believe in Clinton as the next JFK? Not really. For that matter, we don't even believe in JFK as JFK anymore. In fact, we never did, until he died. JFK didn't really become JFK until he died." 
"What in the world are you talking about, Dex?" Jocelyn asked, poking him in the ribs. 
"Shh," I said. "Dex is on a roll. He's explaining all the sub­conscious divine inspirations that osmoted out of my finger­tips during commercials for the Colonel. Please, Dex, continue." 
Denise turned to Dex. "So what are you saying, Dex? That Superman had to die to become Superman? Or that Superman had to die because he was Su­perman?" 
"Huh?" Hank said, reaching for another cranberry sauce flavored jelly doughnut. 
Dex shrugged. "Some are born posthumously, I guess. What do I know? Joe, help me out." 
Jocelyn grinned. "The mad­man cried, Have you not heard? Superman is dead. We killed him-you and I."' 
"We did?" I asked. 
"Sure," Dex answered. "But look at what your poem says. I think you quoted from John Donne, didn't you?" 
''I'm not sure I know what John done," said Hank. 
" 'Death of Superman-be not proud.' On the contrary: the death of Superman is the greatest event of the age." 
"He was kind of a fascist type, wasn't he?" Jocelyn added. 
"Always preferred the X-Men myself," Dex nodded. "Hopefully, Clinton does too." 
Andrew Cutrofello is a pro­fessor of philosophy at Saint Mary's College. His column ap­pears every other Friday. 
L.A. gang members to speak tonight 
Dear Editor: 
Raging fires. Angry mobs. Stray bullets. Bloodshed everywhere. 
This isn't a description of a new science fiction movie to hit the screens. It's a description of what Los Angeles endured April 29th , the day four UPD officers were acquitted of any wrongdoing to motorist Rodney King. 
The next three days were A,.vr.Y'(.,s filled with violence and terror in the dining halls there's al­groups, but that's no reason that destroyed not only prop­ways been someone interested other groups to not help out 
erty, but hope. Hope for justice, in hearing what life "over (especially when the ganghope for racial harmony. In there" is like. members reportedly are from short, hope for a better tomor­Fortunately, there's a better different ethnic groups.) row. source coming to ND to descibe Despite this outrageous lack 
I watched the looting and the horror of the riots. Six L.A. of caring from the groups we 
random assaults on TV, but I 
gang members will speak trust to keep us informed, those didn't feel as far removed as tonight at 8 p.m. in the library who come will experience a 
others across the country. For 
auditorium to describe life in true lesson. It is an opportunity many, the worst rioting in U.S. the inner city and how condi­for myths and notions to be history was madness being tions all across the country can answered once and for all. If played out on the tube. For me, be improved. They will also de­"Boyz-N-the Hood" sparkedhowever, it was decades of in­scribe what it's like being in a your consciousness, continue to 
ner city frustration spilling over gang, and possibly discuss the be involved with inner city is­into living rooms coast to coast, truce gangs reached in L.A in sues. After all, one riot is over 
no longer an isolated problem. 
light of the riots. but the fury is not. I know from 
I live two hours south of L.A., They live there, they experi­experience that another riot in San Diego. Southeast San ence inner city horrors on a could take place at any givenDiego, to be precise. It's an daily basis. For all those with moment-that's how tense ur­area much like Southcentral questions regarding gang life, ban residents are these days. Los Angeles, with high crime these are the guys to ask. Go So I strongly encourage the rates and nights filled with straight to the source. They will Notre Dame community to hear gunshots and wailing police give a lecture and then field this excellent lecture. Obviouslysirens. questions from the audience. In there are some at this school 
After living in Southeast for addition, they will be spending who don't feel this is an impor­seven years, I understood that the weekend in campus dorms tant presentation. They will be what was happening in L.A. to see what ND is like first­the ones that are uninformed was by no means a phe­hand. and will be scratching their 
nomenon. It was an entire city A full crowd is expected, but heads· in amazement the next being robbed and burned by mainly thanks to word-of­time a riot breaks loose. And people that had been neglected mouth advertising. Shamefully, trust me, current economic and 
for years, and now had chosen 
only a handful of posters have social conditions are still ripe to use the King verdict as a been distributed to dorms. Ad­for another insurrection. spark for releasing those frus­vertising has been low for what Don't be as close-minded as trations. promises to be one of the year's some have proven to be. You 
Now, eight months after the best lectures. It could be Ad­came to this university to riots were calmed, the memo­ministration's attempt to dis­broaden your horizons and ries of Reginald Denny getting tance themselves fom this issue. learn things an ordinary text­
beat down and firefighters shot Likewise, traditional staples book doesn't offer. Tonight is at still burns fresh. Here at ND, like SUB and Student Gov­the perfect opportunity to learn 
it's hard to relate what I've 
ernment have steered clear of a lesson you won't soon forget. 
seen up front in my 'hood and helping spread the word. The Alex Montoya how I felt about L.A. going up main groups sponsoring the ef­St. Edwards Hall in smoke. Yet, in my dorm and fort are African-American 
Dec.3,1992 

... .... ... . c.-.........-...-. 
Dear Editor: 
After watching this weekend's thrashing of Southern Cal, I lind that the completion of my second year of football here at Notre Dame leaves me yearning for one, simple change. I have seen almost everything these past two years. A loss at home, a loss on the road, a thrilling comeback, one that came up just short, a huge upset on both sides, and even a tie. 
All of these have made my rather short NO fo~otball stint an exciting and wonderful, if not always perfect, experience. However, I would ask the stu­dent body to check their pro­grams before January 1, so when the band starts playing the light song, the adrenaline starts flowing, and everybody gets fired up -we might sing the correct light song for once. 
Yes, the correct one. Because, as apparently so few people know, the words to the first verse (that's the one before the chorus) are as follows: 
Rally sons ofNotre Dame: 
Sing her glory and sound her fame, 
Raise her Gold and Blue, 
And cheer with voices true: Rah rah for Notre Dame 
We will fight in ev-ry game, 
Strong of heart and true to 
her name We will ne'er forget her And will cheer her ever Loyal to Notre Dame 
For the past two years I have cringed every time we, the stu­dents, have sung the second verse during the first, appar­ently not even noticing the al­most completely different mu­sic. Then, to top it off, the sec­ond verse is reluctantly sung again during its proper time, only to die a weak death. 
Is it possible to wait for the second verse to sing? Or, if we have the time, could we possibly learn the first one? It seems every student knew both verses to the parody of the Michigan fight song, but very few knew the words to our own. 
I have found that almost all of the students in all years, all clubs, all majors, and even the band do not know the words, so do not think I am targeting any particular group. I am simply asking that students take the time learn the words, or at least wait until the proper time to sing the ones they do know. 
Michael Byrnes 
Alumni Hall 
Dec.3,1992 




.'• 

DECEMBER 4-6 
weekend calen 


y 
MUSIC 
L~ke Michigan College Fine Arts Night, 
7.30 p.m .. (616) 927-8192,$ From West of Here, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 9:30p.m. 
EVENTS 
Saint Mary's Madrigal Christmas Dinners, 
7 p.m., Regina Hall, $ A Christmas Carol, St. Joseph. 8 p.m., (616) 429-0400,$ Anme, Community Theatre Guild, 8:15p.m., 464-1636,$ 
sa 
ay 
MUSIC 
Holiday Concert, Lakeland Choral Society, 8 p.m., 2001 Niles Ave,$ Student and Faculty Holiday Concerts. 8 p.m., Goshen College, 536-7571 Elwood Splinters Band, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS 
Christopher's Christmas, Patchwork Dance Company, 7 p.m., 0' Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's,$ Saint Mary's Madrigal Christmas Dinner, 7 p.m., 
Regina Hall, $ A Christmas Story, 8 p.m., St. Joseph, (616) 429-0400, $ Annie, Community Theatre Guild, 8:15 p.m., 464-1636, $ 
s 
y 
MUSIC 
Basilica Advent Music, 7:15p.m., Sacred Heart Handel's Messiah, Notre Dame Choral & University Orchestra, 8 p.m., Washington Hall 
EVENTS 
Christopher's Christmas, Patchwork Dance Company, 2 p.m., 0' Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's,$ Saint Mary's Madrigal Christmas Dinner, 7 p.m., Regina Hall, $ 
films 
FRIDAY and SATURDAY 
Patriot Games, Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. Naked Lunch, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite, 7:15 & 9:45p.m. 

BY LAUREL FABIANO 
Accent Writer 
T 
his holiday season the Windy City comes alive with Christmas spirit providing fun for people of all ages with shopping, museums, theater, and other special holiday attractions. 
Students who find themselves along the famed Magnificent Mile this December will be greeted by thousands of twinkling lights and crowds hurrying to finish their shopping early. 
Along Michigan Avenue, shoppers can find something for everyone on their lists. The seven-story Water Tower Mall this season features the new A/X Armani Exchange store which opened in late November. 
The mall also includes de­partment stores such as Marshall Field's and Lord and Taylor's, hundreds of novelty and clothing stores, several restaurants, and a movie theater. 
At 900 N. Michigan is yet an­other multi-story mall featuring Bloomingdale's and enough smaller stores to keep one busy for an entire afternoon, including 
J. Crew, Jessica McClintock, and fine eateries. 
Two new stores have opened on Michigan Avenue as well this year. The new Nike Town combines athletic wear and entertainment in a shoe store like none other. Indoor basketball courts allow buyers to try out new shoes before they take them home. 
And for the young, or just the young at heart, FAO Schwartz's 30,000-square-foot toy emporium is making its debut. Features found in this gigantic toy store include the only three-story Giant Swoop Gravity Loop in North America, a hologram shop, and the giant piano keyboard Tom Hanks danced on in "Big." 
As always, the windows of Marshall Field's are decorated in glorious splendor. This year, the window scenes tell the story of "Cinderella," complete with the wicked step sisters and the glass slipper. 
For those who prefer to avoid the malls and their crowds, Chicago is brimming with many other exciting options. 
Theater-goers will enjoy "A Christmas Carol," showing at the Goodman Theater through Jan. 3, "The Nutcracker" ballet, showing through Dec. 30 at the Arie Crown Theater, and many other plays such as "Where's Your God Now, Charlie Brown?" and the award­winning "Miss Saigon." 
Horse-drawn carriages are a g at way to tour the city, especially for those who have never been to Chicago. Carriage stands can be found at the corners of Michigan Avenue and either Pearson Street or Huron Street. 
Bus tours are also available, on which one can see the Sears Tower, North Pier, or the Art Institute of Chicago. 
Animal lovers can carol to the animal at the Lincoln Park Zoo or see the "Animal's Messiah,". 
The Chicago Symphony Orchestra and the Apollo Chorus of Chicago will be performing through December, providing just a sample of the musical performances throughout the holidays. 
Comedy clubs like The Funny Firm and The Improv are always open. In addition, public ice skating began Dec. 1 at the Daley Bicentennial Plaza, weather permitting. 
Many of Chicago's museums feature special Christmas exhibits, such as "Christmas Around the World" at the Museum of Science and Industry and the "Gingerbread Fest" at the Chicago Children's Museum. 


•
1n 


Students find Christmas gifts in South Bend 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Accent Writer 
T 
he number of shopping days before Christmas has dwindled to 21 and the number of dollars in your bank account has shrunk to 12. However, the number of old L.L. Bean sweaters hanging in your closet as grown to 17. 
Looks like it's time to head to the thrift store. 
Some of Michiana's retail business may be having a tough time this season, but such recyclers as Goodwill, Saint Vincent de Paul and Salvation Army are enjoying the fledgling economic recovery. 
These stores continue to offer donated merchandise at rea­sonable prices, and during the holiday season, when shopping lists lengthen, filled with big­ticket items, many shoppers turn to them for a wide variety of gifts. 
High prices at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore dissuade many prep-school graduates from charging presents to their parents' accounts, while the seasonal hordes of shoppers at University Park mall could discourage even the most industrious Domer. 
But the area's thrift stores are uncrowded, quiet and immune to the holiday hubbub that plagues most shopping areas during early December, and their prices are always reasonable. 
And these stores offer an advantage which no sale at the Gap can claim-a chance to make Christmas easier for someone in need. 
Most shoppers at these stores do their best to find Christmas presents for their children and parents, but stock dwindles quickly during the holiday sea­son. So gather up your turtle­necks and head down to the Salvation Army. 
Get together your sweaters.and drop them off at Saint Vincent de Paul. Or collect all of your old, tired versions of The Shirt and get a new (rather, used) T-shirt that reads "International Spam Festival-Austin, Minnesota." There are several at Goodwill. 
The area's thrift stores offer a wide variety of fashionable clothes and furniture. With the flannel boom of 1992 driving J. Crew's prices through the roof, the seventies styles found at thrift stores are all the more appealing. 
But while an appealing com­bination of price and selection play a big part in many con­sumers' move to thrift stores, some favor the atmosphere. 
"It brings back memories of garage sales back in Grand Rapids (Minn.)," said junior Ben Cain. "A trip to the thrift store is like a trip back home. But where else can you find name-brand items at discount prices?" 
Indeed, the area's thrift stores give the consumer an opportunity to find name brand jeans and shoes, fashionably faded and scratched. 
Levi's at prices from $1.00 to $5.00 are common, and Cain remembers when more fashionable trousers were only to be found in thrift stores. 

"I bought my Girbaud jeans at Goodwill before I'd ever seen them on someone else," he said. "They only cost $3.25" 
And while thrift stores offer the consumer an opportunity to buy their loved ones affordable, fashionable clothes as Christmas presents, their houseware departments offer exciting holiday decorating opportunities. 
"I need to buy decorations for a Christmas party, so I will go to Goodwill," said sophomore Molly Donius. "I might buy a red or green dress, too." 
Perhaps decorators should wait a week before heading to Goodwill. On Dec.12, the store holds its monthly half-off sale, when all merchandise has its price slashed. 
"Saint Vincent has the best everyday prices," said Cain. "But Goodwill has the best variety and selection of items. Salvation Army falls somewhere in the middle." 
"Thrift stores are great places to Christmas shop," said Donius. "They have Sit 'n' Spins and hula hoops in the toy department, and the selection of glassware is always very extensive." 
Whether you need toys, glasses or fashionabl«;J clothes, South Bend's thrift stores can satisfy your holiday shopping needs. When you go, bring some old flannel, a pair of jeans, or sweater. And make someone else's Christmas shopping easier. 

Michigan City outlets offer an affordable escape for students 
By LORI LINDLEY 
Accent Writer 
W 
ell, it's D e ­cern­her again­time to wrack the brain and hit the malls to find that per­fect gift for each and every person on the list. That perfect gift, of course, must be inexpensive but not cheap, useful but interesting, unusual and creative. 'Sound like a challenge? 
With all due respect to University Park Mall, the selection there is slightly limited. Chicago and its Magnificent Mile, on the other hand, possesses almost unlimited possibilities-if one can afford them, that is. For the lowly college student the possi­bilities suddenly diminish. 
One alternative that offers a good selection and is fairly gentle on the wallet, is Lighthouse Place Outlet Center in Michigan City, just west of South Bend. Lighthouse Place houses close to 100 brand name stores with prices consistently · 30 to 70 percent below retail. 
A lack of clothing is definitely not a problem at Lighthouse Place. With stores such as the Anne Klein Outlet, Benetton, Eddie Bauer, Guess?, J. Crew, and Polo/Ralph Lauren Factory Store, shoppers can find the perfect item of clothing for anyone. Jewelry, perfume, foods and candy, silver, leather, and a variety of other products are also abundant-all at 1discount prices. 

Attached by a walkway to Lighthouse Place is The Works, a retail center housed in a historical renovation of the Pullman Railroad Car Manufacturing Company. The original flooring and walls have been preserved and the old steel beam roof supports and sky­lights are visible in the atriums. The Works holds a great variety of gift ideas as well. Sugar Plum Cottage has "toys with a personality," said owner Linda Hill, and offers many delights for those little brothers and sisters. The Good Ship sells unusual holiday gift items from around the world. 
Both Lighthouse Place and The Works contain r,hmty of enticing restaurants and snack shops for that appetite acquired from hours of hard shopping. Dave's Diner, a sandwich shop and bar witb a 1950's motif, is also nearby. 
If the affordable shopping and good food aren't enough, the holiday season is bringing other attractions to Lighthouse Place, such as Santa and concerts by nearby high school choirs. The Old 
Lighthouse Museum is presenting a special 
display of items from past Christmases and 
will hold concerts using the newly restored 
pump organ. For those taking the train from South .Bend, there is a free trolley from the Michigan City train station to Lighthouse Place. Lighthouse Place is open 9 am to 8 pm Monday through Saturday and 10 am to 6 pm Sunday. 

Wondering if there are hearts above the snow-line 

Sometimes readers write to ask the Editor: "What kind of fool is this Griffin?" 
Answering as a Christian on the defensive, I take the poetry of Frost as my shield: "I have been one acquainted with the night./I have walked out in rain-and back in rain. I have outwalked the furthest city light./I have looked down the saddest city lane./1 have passed by the watchman on his beat/And dropped my eyes, unwilling to explain." 
As a fool getting acquainted with the night, I met freshly blinded Gloucester in despair over the cosmic indifference: "As flies to wanton boys, are we to th' gods/ They kill us for their sport." 
Captain Ahab, the God-ac­cuser in Moby Dick, is on Gloucester's wave-length. De­fending young Pip, the cabin boy who has lost his mind. Ahab protests: "There can be no hearts above the snow-line. Oh, ye frozen heavens! Look down here. Ye did beget this luckless child, and have aban­doned him, ye creatives lib­ertines...Lo! ye believers in gods all goodness... see the omniscient gods oblivious of suffering man; and man...yet full of the sweet things love and gratitude." 
As a fool inquiring about hearts above the snow-line, I am Don Quixote attempting de­fense of God's honor; I'd prefer to be in a battle with windmills. 
Who is to blame for the hor­rors which have overtaken creatures, divinely made, in the gulags, death camps, and famines of this century, leaving survivors to question whether Dibine Providence has a con­science? 
Next to God, of course, I love America best. In the land of Old Glory, outside the deaths at-harvest, drunken driving, and smoking, where the victims mostly have themselves to blame, asking whether Nemesis has your name on her hit-list is like asking whether lightening ever strikes in the same pface twice. 

A Mersey poet offers an ex­ample of hard luck: "A certain Mrs. Elspeth Clout, of Huyton, was killed by an unidentified falling object. It was thought to be a particularly hard stool evacuated from the toilet of a passing aeroplane." 
What are the odds against this happening? What are the odds in favor of your winning the lottery? 
What kind of fool am I? I am the Lone Ranger as celibate, or Hopalong Chastity, with a voca­tion to temper the wind to the shorn lamb. As the old saw says, everyone complains about the weather, but nobody ever tries to improve it, and it's the same with suffering. Sometimes it takes a pagan to see the bright side of suffering. 
Ancient Aeschylus wrote something that was wise for a Greek: "Zeus setting us on the road/Made this a valid law-That men must learn by suffering./Drop by drop in sleep upon the heart/Falls the labori­ous memory of pain/Against one's will comes wisdom:/ The grace of the gods is forced on us/Throned inviolably." 
Simone Wei!, the young Jew­ish woman, enamored of Christ, who refused to be baptized in His religion, was thrilled to dis­nently the religion of an insight that keeps eluding fat­assed Catholics. Nietzche called Christianity the religion of those who have been disinherited and condemned by life. 
"Contrary to all worship of the healthy and strong, Christianity sees life best preserved by those who have already died once. God 'will not break a bruised reed, or snuff out a smouldering wick."' 
What kind of fool am I? I wait on table for a chowder-and­marching society called the Church which Christians use as their soup kitchen. The Church is endearing as the inn of the Good Samaritan, where Christ deposits the charity cases He brings in wounded from the highways, in extreme need of tender, loving care. 
The Church is a halfway house between a rock and a hard place for migrants at work in the vineyard, on their way to high noon in the mansions of glory, where they will sit down as Christ's guests to await the Supper of the Lamb. 
The Church is the watering­hole where vagrants on a jour­ney through the desert can re­fresh themselves, mindful that they have promises to keep, and miles to go before they sleep. 
Their anxiety is generated not by the length of their journey but by its briefness. Who is not mindful that on the far side of darkness, where, after dying, we will awaken from sleep, we will meet face to face the God who will judge us? 
COMPACT DISCS I CASSETTES I VlOEOS I AUDIO ACCESSORIES 
........._ 
(./) 
the best of 
w 
RED HOT CHILl PEPPERS 
l"~ 
WHAT HITS!? 
< 
'uN'o'tR~·H·E'sRI ~(;'?
BEHIND THE SUN HIGHER GROUND 
Lf') 
w 
cr 
0 
Lf') 
(./) 
w u 
u 
<( 
0 

Cl EMI Records Group 
::::> 

I~M.MMMjiii!J.;WliMM+MMI
<( 
(./) 
0 
®
w Cl 



Will our love for Him then be great enough to cast out fear? Maybe chutzpah under pres­sure will be provided for us when we get there. 
As an ordained servant of the 
Kingdom, what kind of fool am 
I? I am a team member of 
Campus Ministry entrusted with 
the mission of showing the 
people of God at Notre Dame 
the human side of the 
Church-just as it's the 
Church's mission to show God's 
people the human side of 
Christ. 

It was Christ's mission to 
show His disciples, and those 
who would come to faith 
through them, the human side 
of God. In the trickle-down 
mercy of God, the snow-line 
which Ahab encountered as a 
door closed between worlds 
thaws into mercy drops. 

To write using plain talk, 
Notre Dame has a campus 
ministry of all-stars. Sacred 
Heart Basilica is at the top of its 
form in offering liturgies which 
refresh the soul. 

The Center of Social Concerns 
is matchless in the way it in­
spires good soul of all ages to 
be doers of the Word and not 
hearers only. Father Warner is 
wonderfully clear and unam­
biguous in explaining the mind 
of the Church enlightening our 
consciences on the legitimate 
uses of human sexuality. 

In mentioning Don McNeil, 
who has become the campus conscience; Sister Jean Lenz, the campus sweetheart; Greg Green, whose kindness and gentleness have made him an embodiment of Christian char­. ity; Tom McDermott, the crown prince of Campus Ministry; and Dan Jenky, who keeps us en­riched by the way he befriends our traditions, I'm only short­listing the Religious noted for 
I CARRYING 

> CD$11.99 
(./) 
w 

TAPE$7.99f­
w f­EXPIRES 12110192 
(./) 
Lf') 
<( 
u 

IHl HAMMlS 
(./) 
(./) 

u NOIHl DAMl BOOKSIOHl 
f­·uu t~e campus.. 
u 
<( 
a.. 

OPlN MONDAY-SAIUHDAY 9-5
I: 0 u 
the depth of their caring. 
The Church gets bad press­notices, and as a matter of fact, so does the Father of Jesus. John Paul II, the defender of a tradition which takes no pris­oners in its reverence for life, gets a steady bashing from the sexual revolutionaries. 
The Pope's high-mindedness is not appreciated on the grass­roots level. To the bishops who allowed the members of their flocks to consult their con­sciences in the matter of birth control, Pope Paul VI had this to say: You said what you needed to say as pastors, just as I said what I had to say as the Pope; as long as we respect each other, let this be the end of the matter. 
Does this allow pastors lee­way in tempering the wind to the shorn lamb? Wouldn't we be better off if allowed the imperatives of the Faith that we need to stay mindful of come trickling down to the parish level? 
Catholic fundamentalism­which reacts, every time the Holy Father clears his throat, as though he had personally mailed us an infallible encycli­cal-is as mindless and stifling as the Protestant kind. 
Robert Frost wrote: "Two roads diverged in a yellow wood, and 1-/I took the one less travelled by)And that has made all the difference." 
This is the way I think of the campus gays. Going home to God by the way of the Cross, as we all must do, they take the less-travelled road. I wish the Campus Ministry could do more for them, going as far as we are able to affirm them as the Church's Children. 
Gays must wonder if, in regard to them, there are in the Church any hearts above' the 
snow-line. 

CASES I HOME STORAGE 
ROBERT PALMER 
RIDIN' HIGH 

n, rhert Pfllrner srngs the classics. .......,. ''·'·'"-'aft." "Baby It's Cold Outs•de," "Goody Goody" and "Hard Head" 

I 

a 
U1 
(') 
U1 
.......... 
(') )> 
U1 U1 
,.., 
-i -i
,.., 
(/1 
.......... 
< 
a 
,.., 
0 
(./) 
)> 
c 
0 
0 
)> () () 
,.., 
U1 U1 
0 
;u 
,.., 
(/1 
() )> (./) 
,.., 
U1 
.......... 

.......... COMPACT DISCS I CASSETTES I VIDEOS I AUDIO ACCESSORIES I CARRYING CASES I HOME STORAGE I 
Friday, December 4, 1992 The Observer page 15 
No food relief reaches Sarajevo as heavy fighting rages in city 
SARAJEVO,Busnia-Herzegovina The unidentified Dane, who has since collapsed, to move at were Habiba Hrgonja and her More than 17,000 people have (AP) -No food relief reached was abducted while jogging, least 10 tanks into position to 3-year-old son, Ersan, who was been killed and 110,000 I Sarajevo on Wednesday as was freed after a widespread attack Otes from three sides. injured in the thigh Tuesday as wounded in a civil war that ~ fighting raged in the city's search apparently scared the They said the Serb strategy was the family tried to flee the town. began after Bosnia's Croat and I outskirts, and Bosnian kidnappers, said the Danish to forge a link between Ilidza to "Do you love me? Do you love Muslim majority voted for I defenders battled what they news agency Ritzaus. the west of Sarajevo and me?" the little boy cried independence in Februar~ ac­I 
I

said was one of the heaviest Rajlovac to the northwest. repeatedly to his mother as he cording to the Bosnian Health 
I 

Serb tank offensives. The worst fighting was in Otes, About 6,000 people live in lay naked under a blanket. Ministry. More than 1 million 
I 

a suburb north of the airport, Otes, many of them refugees. people have been forced from I 
Outside the capital near the where government forces have Evacuation is difficult because The Bosnians reported 14 their homes. 1 Croatian-held town of Kiseljak, been under attack for three of sniper fire and a shortage of dead -nine troops and five Serb forces, backed by Serb­I a Danish U.N. peacekeeper was days from Serb artillery, tanks cars. civilians and dozens dominated Yugoslavia, have 
I

kidnapped by uniformed men and mortars. wounded in Wednesday's captured more than 70 percent 
I 

then released unharmed eight Bosnian officers claim Serbs Among the residents holed up fighting. They were unsure of of Bosnia. Croat forces hold hours later. used a Nov. 12 cease-fire, which in a dark basement Wednesday Serb casualties. most of the rest. 
j 
I I 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds I 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces., 1 
I I 

in by 617 PE, ASAP. NO questions 1 OR 2 NON-SMOKING FEMALES, CHRISTMAS GIFT. EXCELLENT WANTED: THURSDAY. DECEMBER 10. INOTICES asked. Heather X3762. FACULTY OR GRAD STUDENTS CONDITION. TWO SETS. a . One red-haired woman from 308 ONLY; $350/MO + 1/2 UTIL OR ONE SET (POWERBILT GRAND Lewis to attend production of "Sex, -WE HAVE IT ALL -I LOST: Someone accidently picked $600/MO + 1/2 UTIL; 277-2253, SLAMS) HAS 3-PW, 1 ,3,4,5 Drugs, and Rock n' Roll" on Dec. 
I 

up my blue N.D. backpack LV MESSAGE. WOODS. THE OTHER (HOGANS) 9th in the Labtheatre, and perhaps Angels•bears•bunnies•baskels• ATIENTION: at dinner at North Dining Hall on HAS 2-PW, 1 ,3,4,5 WOODS. $100 coffee afterwards? ... bags•blankets•candy•cards• 
I
For more information and Tue., Dec. 1st. I'm desperately NEED A RIDE TO NEW JERSEY/ EACH. candles•Chad•coffees•cocoas• 
I

assistance regarding the · missing some important work in it. PHILA. AREA FOR X-MAS BREAK CALL SHIRLEY Please forgive me. Christmas cards•coloring books• investigation of financing. business If you have it, could you please call CALL MAUREEN@ 2862 272-3753. crayons•dried fruits•eggnog taffy• opportunities and work-at-home Raissa x4890. Reward offered. I don't give up easily. . frames•Farside cards•great gifts• opportunities, THE OBSERVER . Need ride to KC area, Iowa or Cent. For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call heavenly handicrafts•incense• urges its readers to contact the FOUND: ONE PAIR OF Mo, Xmas Brian 1078 Rita Delivery on Campus S.S. (S.G.) Irish Village collection•Jenny•jax• Better Business Bureau of SUNGLASSES IN CASE AT USC 234-6524 jolly good tyme•keepsakes•lotions• Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., GAME IN STUDENT SECTION. TO Help! I need a ride to the P-N-J lambs•licorice•mistletoe•mugs•nuts• Suite 9, South Bend. IN 46637-CLAIM, STOP IN ANTHONY WASHINGTON DC Area for X-mas oh! ornaments•Paula•pillows• 4200; or call the BBB at 219-277-TRAVEL, INC., IN LAFORTUNE. Break. I cari leave as early as SMC/ND SUMMER PROGRAMS. potpourri•quaint mini quilts• 
TICKETS
9121 or 800-439-5313. Thurs. Dec. 17. Please call Allison LONDON AND ROME. red ribbons•Rose•shampoos• HELP!! IF YOU MISTAKINGL Y at X4758 or X4721 MEETING DEC. 9TH, 6:15 pm-ND sachets•stocking suffers· WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 TOOK MY BROWN COVERED PHISHI!!!! LIBRARY LOUNGE. secret Santa toys•tins•1 0¢ candy• 
WEBSTER'S NEW COLLEGIATE Energetic musician w/ diverse taste PHISH!I!!I INFO: CALL PROF, A.R. BLACK •Trolls•UPS•UPS•UPS• TYPING DICTIONARY FROM THE needs guitar/bass/drums for PHISHI!!!! 284-4460 OR 272-3726 Victorian ornaments• 287-4082 LAFORTUNE MAC LAB ON THE originals band. Must own VISNMaster Card• 
NIGHT OF TUES., DEC. 1/WED. equipment. No classic rock/Metal. HAVE 2 TIX FOR SUN. DEC.6 Dearest Gretch -xtra neat stuff•zip codes & zones. WordWorks Typing Service DEC 2 BETWEEN 1-3:30 AM. Bring your sense of humor & leave show at the VIC Theatre in Chicago. Only six months to the BIG day. Term papers, dissertations, theses PLEASE RETURN IT!! your attitude at home. Call Jeff MUST SELLI!I Have a great weekend. THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 277-7406 BELIEVE IT OR NOT, IT HAS nights 273-1512. CALL X3666 I love you -Pat LaFortune Lower Level 
SENTIMENTAL VALUE AS I WAS Mon-Fri-10-5 Babysitter/Housekeeper available AWARDED IT IN JR. HIGH FOR FEMALE SEEKING NEAT, CHRISTIE-Have a wonderful
Help! Lonely frosh needs Evansville Sat -11-3 
2nd semester, MWFS; pay ENGLISH. I NEED IT!! PLEASE NONSMOKING HOUSEMATE basketball ticket for his girlfriend weekend on NDE! It will be great! 239-6714 negotiable, EXCELLENT RETURN IT TO THE MAC LAB OR 10 MIN. FROM CAMPUS. who is coming to the game. -Anabel REFERENCES. Please call Tanya CALL CAIMIEN AT 283-1292. IT $260/MONTH. 277-7048. Wade X1736 Sara Noe(Dec. 5) and Kelly at 283-1880. HAS MY NAME IN THE FRONT Need a ride to the PHILADELPHIA O'Loughlin(Dec. 7)-HAPPY 
COVER! area?? BIRTHDAY to two wonderful STEPHEN JAY GOULD IS I'm headed home and looking for roommies! It's time to let loose-hope 
COMING! Wednesday, December Lost: 14K gold bracelet. Would the someone to share the driving. If this weekend is memorable. I love 9th at 8:00pm in the Hesburgh young man who called on Thurs. you can drive a stick shift car, call yal! -Kimba Library Auditorium. Dec. 3 please call again? Greg at 289-4947. 
===FO==R=R=E=N=T~~ ~~-P_E_R_S_O_N_A_L~ 
Room for Rent: Non-smoking 239-7007. Thank you. To KT: Brendan says he loves u! 
female grad student. Limited kitchen EVERY FRIDAY IS RESUME DAY HEY STEVE SUSCO! 
facilities. 288-2232 before 1 pm. 
LOST: One pair of fruit-punch at The Copy Shop in LaFortune FYI (accord. to Webster's) THE S & M TOP FIVE: 
ILOST & FOUND I 
soaked size 13 Tevas in the stadium SAVE 20% off copies likelihood: PROBABILITY
4, 5 or 6 bdrm. furnished houses, lot. If found, please call Tony at 287-on our resume paper odds: the PROBABILITY that one 5. Washington Huskies 
SAFE, wash/dry, beach V-ball, LOST: 9341 because I doubt they'll fit you. thing is so or will happen instead of 4. Martin Gore 
sec. sys. 233-9947. 

Gold link 14K bracelet Wednesday, No questions asked. PAWN BUY SELL TRADE another therefore .... 3. Robert Smith Dec. 3, between library and ACC. likelihood=probablility=odds 2. MARK HEDAHL
2 bdr. apts available 

Please help. Great sentimental LOST: 14i< GOLD BRACELET OZARK TRADING POST so .... more sex, 1. Thomas Gray
close to campus

value. REWARD OFFERED. 239-7007 1530 WESTERN AVE. greater ODDS of pregnancy,
$300 per month 

Tomi X2663 FROM 8-5 OR 277-5132 AFTER 5. 287-7550 ''' YOU LOSE! '* * 
avilable for 2nd semester CAHILL:
and '92 -'93 school year 

SKIIS ... please ... SKIIS ... please ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. Do you have that special ticket yet? You are the organic chem goddess. 
call 232 -8256 Lost: If you have any info on Rossignol & family can provide financial security, • The ticket to my lormai/SYR? Have fun at the movies, and pray 
GOLD PULSAR WATCH K2 skiis that SKIIED out of a excellent education and wonderful • NO! that proud papa decides not come
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY please call me if found storage closet in Farley Hall, future for your baby. Confidential • The ticket to get into that visit this weekend. 
219-291-7153 Jen X1271 contact Paula at 283-4271. and legal. Expenses paid. Call examination? Love, Weenster 
Reward if found ... extra Ch(istmas Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805) NO!
ROOMMATE WANTED: LOST: BLUE EDDIE BAUER cash ... Piease!!l 520-5978 or attorney (818) 241-• The ticket to go home? 
to live w/ 2 fern. grad students 
OVERNIGHT BAG WITH MY 5535. NO! Hell is other people. ·. 
$175, incl. util., washer/dryer CLOTHES AND A BROWN FOUND: The ticket for the Flanner/Siegfried J.P. Sartre
call277-20651v messageMEXICAN BLANKET IN IT. I LOST 1 retainer in SOH during lunch MEN AND WOMEN Christmas Play 
IT DURING THE PENN STATE Wednesday. Call Jon #1730 "The Importance of Being Uncle 
SECLUDED 4BR 2 BATH 
WEEKEND AROUND SORIN OR FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE Roscoe" SUNSHINE,
COUNTRY HOME NEAR CAMPUS. LEWIS HALLS. CALL DAN LOST: Black psych folder w/exp Dec. 3-5 at Washington Hall. You're back again. The couch has 
4 MEN OR 4 WOMEN. $210 
919-659-9067. REWARD WILL card & notes; last seen at N. Dining For more info, call COSIMO'S They're $3 for students, and they missed you. Hope your project 
MONTH PER PERSON, LEASE, MORE THAN MAKE UP FOR . Hall last Wed.; if you have it 277-1875. benefit Dlsmas House in South went well!, and last evening was an
DEPOSIT. 272-0806 

COST OF CALL. THANK YOU. call x4586-ask for Steve; no Bend. adequate celebration. questions ADOPTION: Loving Catholic couple GET THEM NOW AT LAFORTUNE 
SPACIOUS 6 BDRM HOME,NEARSTRIPED & SWIPED!!! dreams of sharing life with newborn. INFO DESKI! Steal walls do not a prison make. 
CAMPUS.SECURITY LOST: green London Fog Hear us on our taped message. ok?
SYSTEM.FURN. FALL 1993.272­SOMEONE STOLE MY BARBER down-filled jacket in 202 DeBar!. 6306 Confidential. Expenses paid. 1-800­POLE ON SUNDAY NIGHT, before Thanksgiving break. 467-8522. CHISEL*CHISEL'CHISEL If only the good die young, why is 11/22192. GREAT SENTIMENTAL If you found it, please call AT DALLOWAY'S Billy Joel still around? 
Furnished room. $200/Mo
VALUE. Laura x4801 ... It's cold outside COFFEEHOUSE
287-2159 Paul 

$50 REWARD. and I need my jacket!!!! Thanks. IN THE ST. MARY'S PAT'S BARBER SHOP On the twelfth day of Christmas my CLUBHOUSE
LAFAYETIE SQUARE273-8440. true love gave to me ... SATURDAY NIGHT 9PM Let's get happy I 
still accepting names for Tickets to the Notre Dame Glee CHISEL*CHISEL *CHISEL The Cure 
the '93-'94 school year

LOST-BLACK VELVETIE HEAR Club Christmas Concert 
WANTED 

for more info BAND, LAST SUNDAY AT THE Saturday, Dec. 12 at 8:15 in JACC. ""'MERRY CHRISTMAS'"*'
call 232-8256 ENGINEERING DEPT, FIRST Tickets at LaFortune Info Desk. AVOID THE CHRISTMAS RUSH FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!!
FLOOR. PLEASE, IF FOUND, AND PUT YOUR CLASSIFIED$ IN BRECK GIRL (formerly the Sex 
GRAB IT: 1628 Portage for Individuals and Student CALL 272-3920. 
THE OBSERVER NOW. WISH Goddess),1993-94 yr. 234-3831 orOrganizations wanted to promote THAT SPECIAL SOMEONE A
273-0482. I LOST MY RED UMBRELLA the Hottest Spring Break CLOSE-OUT SALE MERRY CHRISTMAS BEFORE Hi I How's life? We miss you in 1-N. Destinations, call the nation's 
DURING THE URBAN PLUNGE MUST GO PRICES!!! DEC. 9, THE OBSERVER'S LAST Don't study too hard this weekend, leader. Inter-Campus programs 
MEETING IN THE LIBRARY AUD. Catholics Vs. Mormons DAY OF PUBLICATION BEFORE and come and visit us some time. LAST SUNDAY. PLEASE CALL $5/each or 2 for $8 THE HOLIDAYS.
1-800-327-6013. 

I FOR SALE 
AMY AT 4530. (Buy an XXL or XL, let a Large -.....HAPPY NEW YEAR*'"" INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT ­
FREE) I'll be smiling Friday, and how about DID YOU TAKE THE WRONG Make money teaching English IBM COMPATIBLE SOFTWARE: you?
Supplies extremely limited I! STEPHEN JAY GOULD IS abroad. Japan and Taiwan. make $2 EACH. 
COAT AT THE WALSH FORMAL Available at Britton's Card Shop COMING! Wednesday, December SANITY INCARNATE $2000-$4000 + per month. Many WANTED: COMPUTERS.
ON FRIDAY NOVEMBER 20? IF (Next to Tracks) 9th at 8:00 pm in the Hesburgh SO PLEASE CALL provide room & board + other 1530 WESTERN AVE., SB. 
OR Call: 287-6730 Library Auditorium. BE THERE! Start and end your day ihe Gray's MARK X1857 benefits! Financially & Culturally 287-7550. 
"Elegy" way. rewarding! For International 
SENIORS SENIORS 50,000,000 DID YOU TAKE THE WRONG Employment Group: (206)632-1146 NO alum in Chicago has perfect 
Tired of studying? Feel the urge to 

ext. J5584. X-mas gift for you from Mom and
COAT AT THE WALSH FORMAL Pick up Weekly Bulletin at SENIORS SENIORS mash by yourself? Then tune into ON FRIDAY NOV. 20? IF SO 
Dad: 1984 BMW 318i, sunroof, 88.9 FM for the finest in alternative 
ROOMMATE WANTED: 5-spd., amlfm, cassette, garaged 
PLEASE CALL Career & Placement Services Pick up Weekly Bulletin at radio, at least in South Bend. MARK X1857 
Looking for female roommate for since owned, low miles, perfect 2nd semester. Castle Point Apt. condition, complete with NO sticker. 
for invitational interviews for the Career & Placement Services Hey you I Hypnosis. You are feelingCan move in before break. Call Must sell I $6400 or best offer. (312)
HUGE REWARD!!!! I promise. first two weeks of the Spring very sleepy. Your band wants to Deb at 239-7890 or 271-8124 348-7867.
Do you have my blue, Notre Dame semester-turn in resumes through for invitational interviews for the play my live show on WVFI. call 
GO IRISH!

back pack-lost Monday Nov. 30 in THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10. first two weeks of the Spring 273-0895 and ask for Ro. North Dining Hall? Call me or bring ROOMMATE WANTED TO SHARE semester-turn in resumes throughNEW 4 BDRM GRANGER HOME; MEN'S GOLF CLUBS. PERFECT 
~--~­
~------------------~--------,------------------­
page 16 The Observer 
BASEBALLEASTERN CONFERENCE 
WALES CONFERENCE American LaaguaAUMtlc Dlvlalon 
Patrick Dlvlalon AL-Pro!mled John G. Ricco, assistant
w L Pa G3 l10 Streak Home Away Con! L T Pia GF GA Home Away DIY
w public rela!lona director, to director at waivers and
Orlando 8 4 .887 8-4 loll I 4·1 4·3 8·3 18 6 3 39 121 97 10·1·2 6-!>-1 6-2·1
Pllt&burgh records.
New York 9 8 .600 112 5·5 l.alt 1 70 2·6 7·3 10 1 27 80 7·!>-0 6-!>-1 7~
New Jersey 13 82 SEATILE MARINERS--Agreed to
New Jersey 8 7 .533 1112 6-4 Woo 4 3-4 5·3 5·3 10 27 99 6-!>-1 4-!>-2 1·!>-0
NY Rangers 12 3 95 terms with Chris Bosio, plcher, on a lour-year 
Boston 6 9 .400 3112 4·6 Woo 1 4·3 2·8 !>-8 !>-6-1 6-7·1 2~
Washington 11 13 2 24 93 89 contract.
Washington 8 9 .400 3112 !>-5 Won2 5·2 1·7 3-8 10 24 101 100 ~ 6-2·2 2-8-2 !>-6-1
Philadelphia 10 4 National Laagua
Miami 4 9 .308 4112 2·8 Lost 3 3·3 1·8 4·7 3 21 92 98 !>-4.0 4-8-3 6-6-0
NY Islanders 9 12 ST. LOUIS CARDINALS-Named Chris Philadelphia 3 9 .250 5 3·7 l.alt 5 1·6 2·3 3-8 
Maloney manager and Ramon Onlz coach 111 Savannah of the South Atlantic League; Steve Turco Central Dlvlalon manager and Maurldo Nunez coach 111 Glena Falla of
Adam& Dlvlalon
4·3 8·3

Milwaukee 10 4 .714 7·3 l.alt 1 6·1 Montreal 17 7 3 37 117 81 11·2·2 6-!>-1 6-4-0 the New York.Penn League; Joe Cunningham Chicago 9 4 .692 112 7·3 loll 2 3·1 8·3 4·3 Boston 15 7 2 32 100 85 9-2·2 6-!>-0 7·3-0 manager and Orlando Thomas coach 81 Johnson Charlotte 8 7 .533 2112 8-4 Won 1 4·3 4-4 5-8 13 9 5 31 117 99 6-!>-1 !>-4-4 !>-2·2 City of the Appalachian League; and Roy Sliver
Quebec
Cleveland 8 7 .533 2112 5·5 Won 2 8·1 2·8 8·3 10 11 4 24 112 91 6-2·1 2·9-3 7·2·2 manager and Tim Redman coach at Chandler of the
Buffalo
7 .500 3 5·5 loll 1 3·3 4-4 8·5 109 3-9-1 3-6-0 4··1
Atlanta 7 8 17 1 13 68 Arizona League. Indiana 6 8 .429 4 4·6 Lost 2 4-4 2-4 5-8 Ottawa 2 23 2 6 58 127 2·10.2 0.13-0 1·12·1 Detroit Hartford 
3 9 .250 6 2·8 Won 1 2·3 1·6 3-4 BASKETBALL National Baalcatball Aaaoclation 
WESTERN CONFERENCE 

ORLANDO MAGIC-Acquired Steve Mldweat Dlvlalon 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Kerr, guard, !rom the Cleveland cavaliers lor a 1996 w L Pa G3 l10 Streak Home Away Coni Norrla Dlvlalon second-round draff choice. Waived Chris Corchlanl. 

L Pia GF GA Home Away DIY 
Utah 8 5 .615 6-4 Woo 2 2-4 8·1 5·3 w T guard.
3 33 95 84 6-4·3 9-!>-0 7-2.0
2 5·2 2·3 4·3 Mlnneaota 15 9
Houston 7 5 .583 112 7·3 loll 13 1 29 1111 106 ~ !>-7·1 !>-4-1
14

Woo 1 5·2 1·5 4-4 Detro"Denver 6 7 .462 2 5·5 12 3 89 81 6-3-3 6-6-0 !>-4-1
11 27 FOOTBALLSan Antonio 8 7 .462 2 5·5 Woo 1 4·2 2-5 3-5 Chicago 
4-8-1 4-4·1 Minnesota 4 7 .384 3 4-8 Woo 2 2·5 1·3
2·2 Toronto 11 10 3 25 75 75 7-4·2 National Football League
97 6-6-0 4-9-2 !>-6-1 GREEN BAY PACKERs-Named
0.7 Tampa Bay 10 15 2 22 93
Dallal 1 10 .091 6 1·9 Lost 7 1·5 0·5 22 92 106 8-4-3 1-6-1 Thomas Peppel Burrusa, assistant trainer lor the New
St. Loula 9 12 4 
2·8·2 York Jets. head trainer, allectiYe Jan. 1.
Pacific Dlvlalon Portland 10 3 .769 7·3 Won 7·1 3·2 8·2 

Seallle 9 4 Smythe Dlvlalon
.692 1 8-4 Woo 7-1 2·3 !>-3 10·1·0 7-8-2 8-4-1 HOCKEY
7 2 36 118 91
Phoenix 8 4 .867 1112 Los Angeles 17
7·3 Woo 8·1 2·3 7·3 104 89 8.01 6-3-2 7·3-2 Colonial Hockey Laagua
14 9 3 31
LA Laker& 7 5 .583 2112 6-4 l.al1 4·3 3·2 6-4 Calgary 112 82 9-2·1 !>-7·1 9-4·1 FLINT BULLOOGS-ActiY81ed Brian
14 9 2 30
LA Clippers 7 6 .538 3 7·3 Won 4·2 3-4 5·8 Vancouver 74 103 !>-!>-2 4·7·2 4~ BeHefevUie, forward, !rom the Injury lat. Placed
9 12 4 22
Sacramento 6 8 .429 4112 3·7 Won 5-2 1·8 57 Edmonton 19 84 97 !>-4·2 3-9-1 3-7·2 Roman Andrya. forward, on the Injury 11at and Steve Golden State 5 9 .357 5112 3·7 Lost 1·5 4-4 3-4 Winnipeg 8 5 13 3 11 116 3-10.0 2·9-1 3-10.0 MacSwaln, forward, on the Inactive llat. Flemoved
19 1 67San Jose Lyle Odelein, delenaeman, !rom the Inactive list. 
Wadnaaday'a Game a New Jersey 122. Atlanta 115 San Antonio 98, Philadelphia 62 Wadnallday'a Game• SOCCER National Prof...tonal Soccer Laagua
Portland 112. lr.dlana 103 New York Rangera 5, Detrok 3 MILWAUKEE WAVE-Acquired Matt
Boston 101, Chicago 98 Winnipeg 3, Calgary 3, tie Milwaukee 100, Miami 97 
Knowles, delender, !rom the Denver Thunder lor an Charlotte 111, Golden Stale 110 undisclosed amount at cash. Thuraaay ~. \aamea Lale GarnoM Not Included Saturday'• Gamea 
COLLEGEBoston a! New Jersey, 2:10p.m.
Boston 4, Montreal 3 
OHIO VALLEY CONFERENCE­

Thuraclay'• Game• P~urgh at San Jose. 4;40 p.m.
New Jersey 3, Ottewa 3, tie 
Announced the 1'81lgnallon at Angela Hazel,

Lale GarnoM Not Included Minnesota at Quebec. 7:40 p.m.
PhUadelphla 3, Quebec 2, OT 
Information director, allectlve Dec. 15.

Waahlngton 113, Milwaukee 95 Washington 111 New York lalandera, 7;40 pJ.
Minneaota 4, Detroit 2 
ARKANSAS-Named Larry Van Oer

Cleveland 100, New York 90 Detroit 111 Tampa Bay, 7:40p.m.
Toronto Ill Chicago, (n) 
Heyden and Buddy King assistant lootball coaches.

LA l.alulr8 at Houston (n) Edmonton at Vancouver, (n) Chicago at Toronto, 8:10p.m. 
COLL. OF CHARLESTON-Named

Minnesota at Utah (n) Halllord at San Jose, (n) PhUadephla at Ottewa. 8:10p.m. 
Treva Tlmmona assistant women'a gol coach.

Dallas at Seattle (n) Pllaburgh at Los Angelel, (n) Montreal at Winnipeg, 8:10p.m. 
MISSISSIPPI STATE-Extended the

Orlando at LA Clippers (n) St. Louis at Edmonton, 8:10p.m. 
contract o1 Jackie SherriN, football coach, through the

Hartlord llll.al Angeles, 10;40 p.m.Frklay a uamea 1996 season.
Sunday'• Game•

~-Friday'• Gamea New York lalanders 81 Buffalo, 7;40 p.m. Boston at Philadelphia. 7:10p.m. TARLETON STATE-Announced the 
Miami 81 Boaton. 7:30p.m. New York Rangers 81 Washington, 8:10p.m. New Jersey 81 Buffalo, 7:10p.m. resignation of Hal McAfee, football coach. San Antonio at New Jersey, 7:30 p.m. St. Louis 81 Calgary, 9:40p.m. TEMPLE-Named Steve Goldman
Toronto at New York Rangers, 7;40 p.m.

Detrott 81 PhUadephla. 7:30 p.m. assistant head coach and quarterback~ coach.
Montreal at Chicago, 8:40p.m.

Allarrta at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. WAGNER-Announced • will add Portland 81 Chicago, 8 p.m. women'a soccer 81 the NCAA Oivlalon I level Golden State 81 Denver. 9 p.m. • beglnlng In the 1993-94 season. LA Laker& Ill Phoenix, 9:30 p.m. Charlolte at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 


Solutions from your Apple Campus Reseller: The Apple Computer Loan. 
"I expected to pay alot more than $35 amonth for anew Macintosh Ilsi and aprinter."
Jennifer Minaya 
Nursing Major 

Jennifer obtained an Apple Computer Loan· that allowed her to 
buy her Apple Macintosh® Ilsi and an Apple Personal LaserWriter' LS printer. She knew that owning a powerful Macintosh computer for her full course load and her work as a doctor's assistant was a smart thing to do. And the Apple Computer Loan was the smart way to do it: easy application, fast turnaround and low, flexible payment terms. So Jennifer went to the only place that offers the Apple Computer Loan, her Apple Campus Reseller. 
Macintosh. It's more than apresent, it's afuture. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 Math/Computer Building 
239-7477 

© 1992 Apple Computer, inc. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, and l11serWriter are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 'Based on jennifer Minaya's Apple Computer Loan of $3,077.76, her monthly payment was S35 (intereSt only) as of JOn.l92~ Principal payments may be deferred up to 4years. The interest rate is variable, and is based on the average of the higher of the 30-day or 90-day commercial paper rates as reported io the Wall S/ree/ journal, plus aspread of5.35% (not to exceed 5.6%). The term of the loan is 8years with no pre-payment penalty~ The tmal finance charge on every Sl.OOO borrowed will be S543.38 Each applicant pays a $35.00 non-refundable application fee. Approved borrowers will be charged a 4% loan origination fee. The loan origination fee will be added 10 the requested loan amount and repaid over the life of the loan. For the month of October 1992, the interest rate wa' 7.6% with an APR of 8.85%. 
-------~ 

-~--------~-­
December 4, 1992 
Bullets blister Bucks; Price, Cavs topple Knicks 
LANDOVER, Md. (AP) -The Washington Bullets handed Milwaukee its first lopsided loss of the season Thursday night, getting 24 points from Harvey Grant in a 113-95 victory that snapped the Bucks' four-game winning streak. 
The Bucks, whose 10-3 record going into the game matched Portland's as the best in the NBA, had lost three games by a total of 15 points. But they surpassed that in their fourth defeat by committing 28 turnovers, shooting 40 percent and scoring only 37 points in the second half. 
Michael Adams scored 19 points and Tom Gugliotta had 17 points and 14 rebounds for the Bullets, now 5-1 at the Capital Centre and 1-7 on the road. 
Rookie Todd Day Jed Milwaukee with a season-high 19 points, including 17 in the second quarter. 
Down by eight in the first half, the Bucks closed to 65-64 early in the third quarter. But Grant made a follow shot and Gugliotta and Pervis Ellison hit layups, starting a 19-6 run that · made it 84-70. 
Cavaliers 100, Knicks 90 
RICHFIELD, Ohio -Mark Price scored 25 points before leaving with a bruised hip and Cleveland limited Patrick Ewing to three points after halftime against New York. 
The win was the sixth straight for the Cavaliers against the Knicks. New York has not won in its last 11 trips to Richfield since 1987. 
Cleveland never led until Price hit two jumpers and Mike Sanders made a fast-break layup for a 58-57 advantage with 9:18 left in the third quarter. 
New York got within two on Charles Smith's jumper with 
9:28 to play before a 7-0 run, capped by a 3-pointer by Danny Ferry, gave Cleveland an 87-78 lead with eight minutes left. The Knicks got no closer than six after that. 
Ewing had 18 points and 12 rebounds in the first half, but made only 1 of 8 shots after halftime and finished with 21 points and 16 rebounds. 
Brad Daugherty had 20 points and 12 rebounds for Cleveland. 

Nikki, Our Solid Gold Dancer. Hope You Had A Happy 21st Birthday I 
Love, 
Anne Marie, Carrie, Aimee, Stefanie, and Colleen 

"THE MOVIE MINDBLOWER OF THE YEAR." 
-Bill Harris, SHOWTIME 

"A STUNNINGLY SURREAL TOUR-DE-FORCEI" 
-Lawrence Frascella, US MAGAZINE 
"Spellbinding, 
hallucinatory weirdness. Burroughs 
and Cronenberg 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
CinEmA AT THE SDITE 

FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:15 ' 9:45 
The Observer page 17 
Reynolds awarded $27 million ­
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) -A federal judge today awarded $27.3 million to Butch Reynolds in the runner's lawsuit against the ruling body of international track and field. 
The total figure in damages and punitive damages was the amount that Reynolds sought in his challenge to his suspension on allegations that he used steroids. 
U.S. District Judge Joseph Kinneary found that Reynolds, the world record-holder in the 400 meters, lost $6.8 million during-the two-year suspension by the International Amateur Athletic Federation. In addition, Reynolds was awarded $20.5 million in punitive damages. 
Kinneary also found that the 
IAAF  was  malicious  in  its  
treatment of Reynolds.  
"I  hope  this  proves  my  

innocence," Reynolds said. "The court's decision was based on facts. I hope this will restore my name and my reputation." 
Reynolds learned about the ruling while attending the convention of The Athletics Congress in Louisville, Ky. 
"I went through a lot of difficulties, both myself and my family. Now I hope to relax a little more." he said. 
Reynolds and his lawyers planned more statements later this afternoon. 
The IAAF has repeatedly refused to acknowledge the legitimacy of Reynolds' suit. It contended that U.S. courts have no jurisdiction over it, and IAAF president Primo Nebiolo had said the group would never accept a decision of any court against IAAF rules. 
Kinneary did not comment on the ruling. 
IAAF spokeswoman Jayne Pearce said in London, "The IAAF position remains the same. We are advised that U.S. courts have no jurisdiction over the IAAF." 
Nebiolo was not available for comment, his chief of staff, Enrico Jacomini said in Rome, but Jacomini declared, "The IAAF has repeatedly said the judge has no jurisdiction in this case." 
Brooks Johnson, Reynolds' coach, said the ruling "shows that the court system still can protect the underdog." 
"It's about what faith, courage and the judicial system can do, because nobody gave this kid the time of day about this case," he said. 
Johnson, coach at the California Polytechnic Institute at San Louis Obispo, also was attending the convention. 
"He was not just fighting for Butch Reynolds; he was fighting it for all athletes," Johnson said. "It preserves and protects the rights of all athletes." 
Byrd remains in stable condition 

NEW YORK (AP)-On the day  operation  and  three  metal  
after he underwent seven hours  plates screwed together area to  
of spinal surgery, Dennis Byrd  stabilize the damaged portion of  
of the New York Jets was stable  the spinal cord.  
and in satisfactory condition at  Jet players passed  a  tape  
Lenox Hill Hospital.  recorder around the locker  
A medical update on Thursday  room on Wednesday, preparing  
said Byrd sat up and talked  a cassette of personal messages  
with his family. He remained in  for their teammate.  
the hospital's intensive care  They also will get a chance to  
unit.  talk with Byrd on a conference  
A number of bone fragments  call telephone hookup in his  
were removed from the broken  room.  
fifth  vertab ra  during  the  The  players  will  wear  a  

·Let The Observer help yo send a Christmas wish to your friends. A Christmas ad this siz costs only $20. 
Visit The Observer, 3'd floor LaFortune, for more details. 
eadline for our Christmas issue·.. Monday, Dec. 7, 1:00 p.m. 
helmet decal honoring the defensive end who was injured in last Sunday's game. 
The decal carries a line drawing of a fish -a religious symbol -with Byrd's uniform No. 90 inside it. Byrd, a member of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes, drew the symbol, called Icthus, which means Jesus Christ, God, Son, Savior, on his ankle tape before each game. 
Legend 
continued from page 24 
could play another thirty­minutes. 
But Brooks the legend showed why he deserves such a title, playing through the sickness and rushing 31 times for 227 yards. 
It was his best performance of his career and the perfect ending to a fairy tale season, a season where he went from unknown to starter, from starter to star, and from star to legend. 
Didn't you listen to your mother? Put your Observer back where you found it. 
FREE 
TANNING 
ILUdetiiiiO llalrCutdngCo. 
W!:::=INOIAN RIDGE P'I-A~~ NEXT TO~ • GRAPE RO_, MISHAWAKA 
2n-7846
.,..,.... 

~...Suft. 11-5 

page 18 The Observer December 4, 1992 
-
Hoosiers and Jayhawks prepare for confrqntation 
INDIANAPOLIS <v;.IAP) 

Juu.uGtJa fashioned a pattern of starts; sJuggishmiddles d big rallies over three lll!ll.llle:.. It's taken Kansas only ne game to establish tl;tat trend, and coach Roy rwi·"'"'IYI" doesn't like what he 
five years,. can't jreJneJnbt~r playing that poorly an entire ~!tlf/' Williams of the Jayhawks' second­performance in a 76~65 ory over Georgia. "If we like that Saturday, it could 
a 30-point game and they'll be kicking our tails all the way home." 
Second-ranked Indiana, h already has beaten three other rated teams in winning preseason NIT. will play No. Kansas in the Hoosier Dome Saturday afternoon. the first a pair of powerhouse college ,.,a.""""'.."'"' matchups that day. Hours later, No. 1 Michigan plays at No. 4 and defending' champion Duke in a rematch of their NCAA title game last 
spring. · Kansas last pla 
Puerto Rican team hopes to land Magic 
PONCE, Puerto Rico (AP) ­The Arecibo Captains of the Puerto Rico Basketball League have a ... well, a kind of impossible dream for next season. 
The Wolves -which this year lost the championship in six games to the Ponce Wolves ­want Magic Johnson as their coach. 
The question is, is Magic available? And is he interested? The Wolves want to know, and soon. 
''I'm leaving (Friday) for the United States and will try to contact him to see if he's interested in coaching the team," said Wolves owner Luis Ruiz, a physician. 
"I think Magic, now that he retired, may be willing to discuss the possibility of coaching." 
Johnson, who led the U.S. Olympic team to a gold medal in Barcelona, announced his official retirement earlier this year after a brief comeback with the Los Angeles Lakers. He tested positive for the HIV vi rus last year. 
"Coaching here wouid help Magic prepare for a job in the NBA," Ruiz said. "Puerto Rico has been a training ground for NBA coaches such as Red Holtzman and Del Harris." 
Ruiz is optimistic. He said that a phone call might do it. 
''I'll call him up and ask him if he wants to coach in Puerto Rico," he said. 
However, he did not talk about what kind of contract he would offer Johnson. But if Magic says no, Ruiz said he had a "well­known former NBA player lined up" for the job. He declined to identify the second choice. 
Hoosier D(J*~ fill991. when lost to .Duke In the final . of the 
This 

led Georgi;.t py ZO points a halftime of·their ODA'llAlr:l Indiana (4-0) blew a lead but held on to beat .....••··-A1 by 10,.then squandered digit l~ads againstFiorlda . and Seton Hall to win by 
back-to-b•a9J~w jg'~ 
career highS points then 36 points and was nan1edl the NIT roost valuable player. 
"We have to play a heck of lot better than we did, or could not only embarrass but hurt our confidence a deal,'' Williarris said. "It take a long· time to build o kids back up. 


Evans expects Rebels to win 
First black coach at university has never failed 
OXFORD, Miss. (AP)-It looks like the time is right for a black head coach at Mississippi. Rob Evans hopes so. He knows it's the right time for a winning coach. 
"Everyday, I look in the mirror and I realize I'm black. But I'm a coach. It just so happens that I'm black," Evans said. "I think the people that have met me and met my family realize we're just regular people." 
Evans, taking over a .basektball team that went 11­17 last season and has only one winning season in the past decade, is the first black coach of any major sport at this predominantly white school. 
"We're not going to be losers here," said Evans, who has gone to the NCAA tournament as an assistant coach 17 times. "There is a direct correlation between hard work and success. We're going to be successful. I'm not putting a schedule on it, but I want to win right now." 
As an assistant for 24 years under Lou Henson at New 
CD 
$10D 
CD 
$722 

ISPECIAL EDITIONS I 
SPINNERS 

DANCIN' AND LOVIN 
CD
CD 
$]22 


CD 4 CASS I 4 CD BOX SET 
$4]D 

$1022 
r------------------------,
H 0 uR s: 'Il'RACEO : 
Mon-Sat 10-9 Sunday 11-7 
1631 Edison Rd. 277-8338 
I R E C 0 R D S I 
l1 ZOOfo l1 
: Off Maxvll Blank Tapes : 
: Exclada Singler Tapes 1 Coapon Explra: 12/11/92 1 
L------------------------~ 
Mexico State, Gerald Myers at Texas Tech and Eddie Sutton at Oklahoma State, Evans was involved in more than 400 victories. 
He has instilled the Rebel basketball program with an excitement it has not felt in 10 years. 
"I've never failed at anything I've attempted," Evans said. "I know what it takes to win, and 
Seize the Day! 
--•..,
../"" 

Dana's been vindicated. 
s 
$1722 
-
I'm going to do whatever it takes, within the legal realms, to win." · 
Certainly this will be Evans' biggest on-court challenge since he played against Lew Alcindor and Elvin Hayes for New Mexico State in the 1960s. He's expecting a big boost from Joe Harvell, the Southeastern Conference's leading scorer a year ago. 

December 4, 1992 The Observer page 19 
eight three-pointers. --­
Open Southeastern may owe PSAC
"I was really impressed by 


continued from page 24 
head coach on Tuesday, and they are looking to improve on last season's 13-16 mark. To do so, they are counting on junior forward Kerman Ali, who averaged 12.2 points per game last season and scored the game-winner against the Badgers. 
"They are a much-improved team from last year," MacLeod said of Loyola. 
Evansville (1-0) is the preseason favorite to repeat as Midwestern Collegiate Conference champions. After going 24-5, the Aces fell to Texas-El Paso, an eventual Elite Eight team, in the first round of the NCAA tournament, 55~50. 
They are led by junior forward Parrish Cashier, who scored 25.4 ppg last year. Against the Irish, Cashier scored 41 points, including Evansville last year, and they have (all five starters) back," MacLeod said. 
'They are a lot more than just Cashier. They have all the components of a good team." 
Two of those components are seniors Sascha Hupmann and Scott Shreffler. Hupmann led the Aces with eight rebounds in their game against the Irish, and Shreffler, who missed the Notre Dame game, was their second-leading scorer (13. 3 ppg). 
Th.e key to Irish success this weekend is going to be defense. As was the case early last season, they have struggled with the man-to-man. 
"We are not where we need to be defensively, though it is better now than it was in the (exhibition) opener (a 76-68 loss to USA Verich), MacLeod said. 



Jefferson  


Main & jefferson Hours Mon-Th 11 a.m.-11 p.m. Fri-Sat lla.m.-11 p.m. 

NotaFranchise•AFamily OwnedBusiness Sun 4 p.m.· 9 p.m 
257 ~ 1100 

"This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" Authentic New York 'Pizza 
alzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs Dine In • Carry Out $2.00 off any pizza with Studt:~nt ID 
Loophole in NCAA regulations allowed contest 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. (AP) ­Maybe the Southeastern Conference should send a percentage of the profits to an NCAA Division II league in Pennsylvania. At least a note of thanks. 
A rule passed in 1987 at the urging the Pennsylvania State Athletic Conference will allow the SEC to play its first football championship game on Saturday. 
No. 2 Alabama (11-0) will meet 12th-ranked Florida (8-3) at Legion Field in a game expected to draw more than 80,000 and raise some $7 million for the SEC and its schools. 
"How about sending a few bucks up here?" quipped Todd Eberle, commissioner of the 14­team Pennsylvania league. 
The PSAC began playing a title game in 1960 between its Eastern and Western division champions. But NCAA rules allowed only 11 games, so teams had to limit their schedule to 10 games while leaving open a slot in case they reached the title game. 
"We asked the NCAA what we could do about this, was there a waiver or exception, and they said no," Eberle said. "They told us to draw up a piece of legislation to allow a championship football game to be exempted from the 11-game requirement." 
The rule finally adopted in 1987 provided that a conference with 12 or more teams could divide into two divisions and play an extra game to decide its football champion. 
The league, however, dropped its championship game after the 1987 season because the loser of that contest often was knocked out of consideration for the NCAA Division II playoffs. The league now crowns two divisional champions. 
"It proved to be a good move," Eberle said. "Every year since then we've gotten at least two teams into the national tournament, and two years ago three got in. Many instances before that. we had just one team." 
But the championship game rule was never rescinded, and that proved to be the loophole used by the SEC when it wanted to play a championship game. South Carolina and Arkansas joined the league this season and the SEC was split into two six-team divisions. 
"The people who voted on the rule never dreamed that it would be used for what it's being used for now," Eberle said. "They just thought they were helping out some conference in Pennsylvania that happened to be very big. Everybody thought we had a problem and the rule would not affect anyone else." 
Southwest Conference 
Kissy Kissy ••• Happy 21M Kerri Jean! 

Love, 

~-------------------------------J~___C_o_l_le_e_,_F_o_n~gi_e_,_~_o_~__o_,_&l_S_o_o_z_ie_____ 

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 5TH SUNDAY, DECEMBER 6TH 
10:00 A.M. TO 2:00p.M. 
DECEMBER 11TH THRU 20TH 
11 :00 A.M. TO 6:00 p.M. 
iN THE boxiNG ROOM oNly 
commissioner Fred Jacoby remembers when the rule was passed that its sponsor, West Chester athletic director Dick Yoder, said it would only apply to the Pennsylvania league and possibly one other Division II conference. 
"It was clear to me that the limitation was just for Division II for their playoffs," said Jacoby, who asked the NCAA to look at the rule after the SEC announced its championship game plans. 
"It was approved by all divisions but I don't think anyone at that time thought it was going beyond those two conferences," he said. 
The NCAA, obviously, allowed the game to proceed, prompting speculation that other conferences will join the rush to expand so they can add a championship game. But Jacoby said he is not sure if that will happen. 
"You're talking about different situations in other areas of the country," he said. "The weather alone in the Midwest . . . That's one advantage the SEC has. Also, there are minimal pro team influences in that area." 
Yoder, who now is chairman of the Division II football committee, said he will tune into Saturday's game with particular interest. 
"I think I will watch it very proudly with what it turned out to be," he said. 
Bruce, CSU continue fight 
. FORT COLLINS, Colo. (AP) ­Colorado State University on Thursday set a deadline for applicants in its search for a new head football coach, just one day after Earle Bruce 
. announced plans to seek an injunction to block the hiring of his replacement. 
The university will accept applications for the head coaching position until Dec. 15, and CSU officials said they plan to find their new coach quickly. 

"We are committed to finding an individual who demonstrates the ideals, goals and mission of the university, and provides leadership and guidance for our football team," said CSU athletic director Corey Johnson. 
Bruce was fired Nov. 23 amid allegations of physical and emotional abuse of his players, including two NCAA violations. Bruce has denied most of the allegations. 
Bruce's lawyer said Wednesday they plan to take legal action over his dismissal. 
"We'll file the papers as soon as we have the opportunity to draft them," said Fort Collins lawyer Gene Fischer. "We'll seek an iqjunction against hiring a new coach, as well as maintaining the status quo of Earle Bruce as football coach until the courts make the final decision." 
Fischer said he will notify the university this week that he plans to go through the school's .. grievance procedure. Bruce is 
"1 

1 
I 
l ' 
I 
I 

suspended without pay until
~ 

the grievance procedure, which 
could take up to 60 days, is 
complete. 
CINCINNATI (AP) -The Rev. Jesse Jackson said Thursday that racism pervades basebalJ and former commissioner Fay Vincent said owners lacked a "passion or commitment" to minority hiring. 
Meanwhile, another person came forward accusing Cincinnati Reds owner Marge Schott of racial slurs and the Cincinnati Human Relations Commission, a city agency, demanded that Schott be removed from baseball. 
While Jackson was threatening to picket major league stadiums on opening day, Reds pitcher Tom Browning said he believed the alleged slurs were said "in jest" and Cincinnati third baseman Chris Sabo said he'd never heard Schott use racial slurs. 
Max Brown, publisher of The Other Paper, a weekly in Columbus, Ohio, said he was seated next to Schott during a game at Riverfront Stadium on June 8, 1989, and claimed she made a remark about Kal Daniels, a Reds outfielder whose playing time was limited by injuries. 
"I recall a Jot about that afternoon," Brown wrote in Thursday's paper, "but what I remember most is that she told me Kal Daniels .was 'a dumb, lazy nigger.'" 
Della Daniels, the player's mother, said he was away from his Warner Robins, Ga., home and unavailable for a comment. Daniels was traded to the Los Angeles Dodgers on July 18, 1989, about 1 1/2 months after 
The Observer 
the alleged remark. 

Baseball's ruling executive 
council, which has the power to 
ban Schott, suspend her or fine 
her up to $250,000, has 
appointed a four-person 
committee to investigate her 
alleged comments. She is 
accused of slurring blacks, Jews 
and Asians. 

Schott did not return 
telephone calls to her office 
Thursday. In an interview 
Tuesday on Cincinnati radio 
station WLW that was published 
Thursday in USA Today, she 
talked about the intense media 
attention. 

"I don't think the good blacks like this," she was quoted as saying. "We have kids taking guns to school. There are kids trained to rob banks at 13, and these are all the things that Jesse Jackson and these influential blacks should be 
concentrating on." 

Vincent, speaking in New York 
during a taping of NBC's "Later 
with Bob Costas" to be 
broadcast Monday night, said 
baseball "is about as racist as 
America generally." 

"BasebalJ has a long way to 
go," Vincent said about minority 
hiring. "And I think it requires 
lots of commitment from 
ownership. I don't think there is 
much commitment from the 
owners."

The former commissioner, who resigned Sept. 7, wouldn't talk directly about Schott but said, "I wasn't totally surprised this issue came to light." 
Jackson has called for a rally 
Monday night at Louisville, Ky., 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assistant Accent Editor Accent Copy Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement to Jahnet1e Harrigan by Friday, December 4 at 5 p.m. Contact Jahnelle at 239-5303 for more information . 
THE•POINTE 
MARIGOLD MARKET 


AT SAINT JOSEPH 
~~/Jmv;e Start the holidays offwith lkc.6-JIJ /lam-~ a cozy place to stay. 
~..w 

The Pointe at SaintJoseph Apartments are nestled tV~ on the Saintjoseph River bank and convienently located in downtown South Bend. 
~~ 

•Close to ND Campus 
•Selected 1 or 2 bedroom apartments

I 

on special for a big Holiday Savings 
1-JO'W 0Pe.N5U~YS 

Your Luxury Apartment is waiting for you 
TlL CH~ISTIV\AS I lAM-4PM. ~RAPE!.~ C: L.S.ve.I...ANP 
2'12.·192.2.; 


the site of baseball's winter 
meetings.  During  an  
appearance  Thursday  at  
DePauw  University  in  

Greencastle, Ind., Jackson continued to attack baseball's hiring policies. 
"While she said something ugly and painful, the other owners are comp!icitous in something worse," Jackson said. 
He added that Schott's alleged remarks were part of a pattern. "It's not a slip of the tongue, it's a point of view," he said. 
Jackson wants to address owners on Tuesday and has spoken to executive council chairman Bud Selig about arranging a meeting, Jackson spokesman Frank Watkins said. 
Watkins said Jackson had made the boycott threatagainst owners. 
"He said if they didn't deal forthrightly with the situation, the Rainbow Coalition would organize picket lines on opening day and ask fans and players not to cross the picket lines," Watkins said. 
Browning said players should stay out of the Schott controversy. 
"This thing's got nothing to do with the players. That's her problem," Browning said from 
December 4, 1992 
his home in Edgewood, Ky. "Whatever she said, I think she probably said it in jest. ... I don't side one way or the other. I respect Mrs. Schott. I certainly hope nothing happens to her, but it's not my business." 
Sabo said even if the accusations against Schott are true, enough has been said about them. "All I can is, everyone's taking a holier-than­thou viewpoint," he said. "I think people should be forgiven. Everyone makes mistakes. Everyone does stuff they're not proud of. People should forgive people. Let's move on with life." 
The Schott controversy began when depositions were made public in which she didn't deny using the word "nigger," and called it a "Southern term." The Cincinnati Human Relations Commission called Thursday for 
her ouster.  
"Mrs.  Schott's  casual  
insensitivity  and  lack  of  
awareness  has  caused  

embarrassment and further polarization in our community," commission chairman William Spillers said during a news conference. "I don't think Marge Schott is any more racist than anyone else. I just think she's intolerant." 

r:======================::;~ 
· Some people think the Honor Code doesn't work at ND. Some other people are no longer at ND. 
Learn about The Code. Read the handbook. 
??'s call Kami Benson X4704 or Kevin Schroeder X1750 


No one prepares you lor the MCA T better than Kaplan. Our MCA T 
prep course t-clws you exacUy what the •-• covers and the •-•­taking skills you'll need to score your besL We offer live c'--. home study not-, and audio review. Plus, no one el..has a .,_.. extensive MCAT re.ource library than Kaplan. 
KAPLAN 
The -Wet' to the test qu-tlon. 

STEVE Ross' BEAd WoRksltop 
OvER 1,000 diffERENT bEAdS ANd SUppliES. INdudiNq TRAdE bEAds, pERUViAN bEAds, SEMi,pRECiOUS bEAdS, q[ASS bEAds, SEEd bEAds ANd clAsps 
2222 MishAwAkA Ave., SouTk BENd 
2}7.-0~00 
CLASSES AVAILABLE HouRS: Closrd SuNdAy & MoNdAy TursARi. 11-6; SA1. 10-6 
HOLIDAY HOURS ON UNTIL 7 P.M 

Hair &Nail Studio 
OPEN 6 Days AWeek STUDENT SPECIAL 

$10 off afull set of nails 289-4335 
2301 Mishawaka Ave., South Bend 5 minutes from campus 
The Observer page 21 
Women ready to shave their legs -­
By HALEY SCOTT Sports Writer 
The members of Notre Dame women's swim team are excited because they finally get to shave thier legs. 
The Irish begin competition today at the National Catholic Championship meet in Providence, R.I. This annual meet, which was held last year at Boston College, invites the swim teams of any Catholic university that wishes to compete. For the Irish, it is the shave and taper meet for the 1992-1993 season. 
Last year in Boston, Notre Dame dominated the meet, nearly doubling the score of the second-place team. This year the Irish are looking to win their third· National Catholic championship. 
"We have competed well this semester, and there is no reason why we shouldn't win our third (National Catholic) title," said co-captain Susan Bohdan. 
The Irish (4-1) have trained hard all semester, and only two weeks ago began to cut down on practice yardage to prepare for this weekend's meet. 
Volleyball 
continued from page 24 
however, and thwarted a fine defensive effort by the Irish with a kill off an errant dig. Christy· Peters placed a clutch hit in the back corner to fend off a Penn State game point, but 

Susan Bodhan 

"The team has raced very fast at each meet this season, and everyone is ready to taper and shave, and go even faster," Bohdan said. 
The Irish should be very strong in each of the sixteen events of the meet. 
Senior co-captain Tanya Williams will lead the team in the butterfly and individual medley events, followed by junior Kristen Heath and sophomore Angie Roby. The middle-distance and distance freestyle events will be lead by Bohdan, and sophomores Jenni Dahl and Lorrei Horenkamp. Freshmen Rachel Thurston, 
the lady Lions forced two hitting errors by Notre Dame which put the game away. 
At this point, most of the Recreation Hall crowd believed Notre Dame's upset chances were dashed. Penn State coach Russ Rose agreed with Brown, though, that the match was far from over. 
"The pieces of the puzzle were fitting well for us," said 
Flowers, plants & balloons Heaven & Earth 143 Dixie Way South (31 North) (1/4 mile North of Notre Dame) 273-2212 10% discount with Student I.D. Great Place for SYR/Formal Gifts We have Poinsettas FTD Service Available.  
Attention Juniors: Remember all pictures for the JPW Slide Show must be turned in to the JUNIOR CLASS COUNCIL by Friday, December J.J.  

Kelly Walsh, and Mary Wendell will compete in the sprint freestyle events. 
In the breastroke events, the Irish will look to freshmen Joy Michnowicz and Jesslyn Peterson, while senior Kay Broderick and sophomore Cara Garvey lead the team in the 100 and 200 yard backstroke. 
Notre Dame had five divers competing fn Rhode Island, including previous meet winners Angela Gugle and Liane Gallagher. 
The National Catholic championship meet begins today and concludes on Sunday evening: preliminaries are at 10 a.m. and with finals at 6:30 p.m. 
The Irish will focus on qualifing for finals in the morning session, and winning events in the evening session. 
"Championship meets are won in the evening (at finals), but lost in the morning session," said Notre Dame coach Tim Welsh, confident that the Irish will "win our third championship in a row." 
Rose. "But the match was never won until the final point was scored. Notre Dame is a very good team and very well coached. You need to keep going until the end, and that's what we did." 
Disappointed by the foiled comeback, Notre Dame committed several mental errors early in game two. Behind 6-0, Brown called a timeout to regroup her team. 
The Irish stayed alive behind four kills by Jessica Fiebelkorn, but could never climb all the way back into the game. Fiebelkorn was impressed with Notre Dame's ninth-ranked opponents. 
"As a middle blocker, I get to work against everyone on the other side of the net," she explained. "They are a well­balanced team. They play well at every position, and you can te!I they are well coached." 
Penn State once again took a sizeable lead in game three, leading 8-1 early on. The Irish fought back behind the serving of Brett Hensel, but the closest they could get was 9-7. Brown was especially impressed with Penn State's back row attack. 
"They have a very good offense from the back row. They use the back row more effectively than any other team we've seen. (Penn State middle hitter Leanne) Kling played an excellent match. 
Kling led Penn State with 23 kills and fueled the .288 Lady Lion hitting percentage. Senior Kim Kumfer led the sqmtd with 16 digs, tying Peters for the match high. Three Irish players were in double figures with kills as Peters led with 13, Fiebelkorn had 11, and Cragin finished with 10. 
Notre Dame finished the season at 30-7, and it posted back-to-hack 20-win seasons for the first time since 1986 and 1987. This year's trip to the NCAAs was Notre Dame's second ever, with the first coming in 1988. That year they defeated Penn State in four games, before falling to Illinois­Champaign in the Sweet 16. 


page 22 The Observer December 4, 1 
--Explorers provide major obstacle for Irish swim team 
By ALLISON MCCARTHY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swimming team will compete at the University of Rhode lsland in Kingston today through Sunday in the sixth annual National Catholies Swimming and Diving Championships. The meet will be hosted by Providence College. 
The Irish, who helped found the event and hosted the original one, have won the last three National Catholics meets. 
Several Catholic schools, primarily from the northeast, will compete against Notre Dame in the weekend's events. The schools include Providence College, LaSalle, Boston College, Fordham, St. John's, Catholic University, St. Louis University, and Holy Cross of Massachusetts. 
"The purpose of the meet is to create a championship in which all participants (institutions) are Catholic," said Irish head coach Tim Welsh. "It's a competition where the teams are united by the academic, intellectual, and philosophical focuses of the schools rather than by conference affiliations. 
"The meet also allows us to focus our training on a particular goaL It's serves as a stepping stone for the rest of the season." 
The NCAA limit of eighteen men, including six new swimmers, will travel to Rhode Island this weekend. 
"LaSalle looks very, very good," stated Welsh, judging by preliminary entries. "They had a great fall season, and they are seeded very well in this meet." 
In several events, both individual and relay, either Notre Dame or LaSalle holds the number-one and number­two seeds. Senior Greg Cornick, the leading Irish sprint freestyler, holds the first seed in the 100 free, an event which he has won at every dual meet thus far this season. 
LaSalle will most likely be The Irish' toughest competition. "However," according to Welsh, "the host team character­istically swims very welL This year it's Providenee, and they 
are a very improved team from last year." Other top scorers in
the past have included Boston College and Fordham. 

.. The Irish have several goals for the meet. "We are committed to athletic excellence," commented Welsh. "We'd like to do our season's best performances at minimum. Other individual goals include lifetime best and university best times." 
"We're a newly developing freestyle team, and we're anxious to see how we do in those events, but all events are important," Welsh .said. 
Notre Dame is also looking at the more distant goal of the NCAA Swimming and Diving Championships which takes

-
place at the end of the spring season. "We're ready to challenge NCAA consideration times and maybe automatic entry times. This meet is a good opportunity to do that," said Welsh. 
The format of a championship meet such as National Catholics is slightly different from a regular season dual meet in both the events swum and the way in it which it must be won. 
The meet includes the full spectrum of national events, twenty total, seven of which are not swum in a dual meet: the 
According to senior co­captains John Godfrey and Tom Whowell, both of whom will swim the 100 and 200 back at the meet, the team is prepared for the weekend's challenges. 
"We've been swimming very well in practice and in competition, especially against Ball State a couple of weeks ago. Hopefully, that meet indicates what kind of success we'll have this weekend," stated Godfrey. 
"Our spirits are really high. Everyone is very excited for meet. We're coming off a big win against Ball State a couple of weeks ago, and there's not a lot of pressure in this meet," said Whowell. "We want to see how fast we can really go and we hope things will work out for the best." 
According to Whowell, the freshmen as well as the upperclassmen will play a big role at National Catholics. "This is their first taper meet, and we're looking to see how well they ean do. We're looking for a lot of upperclassman leadership, too," he said. 

The Observer/Jake Peters The weekend will conelude Notre Dame swimmer Tom Whowell, a senior, launches into action during a meet earlier this season. fall season competition for the 
Irish. 100 yard stroke events, the 200 to win. In a championship places." relays, the 400 LM., and the meet, a team needs power and 800 free relay. In a national depth," said Welsh. meet, the 1000 free is replaced "This is because in a dual by the 1650. meet, the best a team can do in 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS 
an event if they do not win first "There is an interesting place is tie the winning team. 
CATCH 'EM 
comparison between the dual In a championship meet, the 
meets and the championship first place team can be 
meets of the season. In the outscored by a combination of 
FRIDAY 

dual meets, a team needs depth second, third, and fourth 
Women1s Basketball 
vs #17 Purdue 

JACC 7:30PM* 
Say you saw us in The Observer 
SUNDAY Haircuts $6.00 
Men1s Basketball 
with Student 1.0. 
vs Evansville

277,0057 
JACC 2:00PM
2 mi. N of campus on U.S. 31 
~=======================:::;-'
Turtle Creek A 
*Free admission with Blue & Gold Card 
Townhouses 
1 & 2 Bedrooms 
Furnished Studios Pool &Volleyball Laundry Facility 
Now Accepting
ND Shuttle Service 
Applications
City Bus Line 
2/10 of a mile from campus 

Affordable Student Housing 


OF AMERICA 

No one can guarantee your acceptance to medical schooL 
Daily Delivery to Notre Dame 
But we can guarantee that you 'II score your highest on the
and South Bend 
-MCAT Our unique Test Your Bestr"' guarantee is your insurance policy. If you're not completely satisfied with your MCAT score, we'II let you repeat the entire course ...at
OPEN 7 DAYS 
no charge! 

We offer expert lb·e instruction, innovative home study matenals, unlimited review in our TEST-N-TAPE* labs and lots of personal attention. That's why Stanley H. Kaplan has1169 Scottsdale Mall 1404N. Ironwood Dr. 
prepared more test takers, and produced more top MCATSouth Bend, IN 466)~
Lower Level 

scores, than everyone else combined! 
South Bend, IN 46612 
(219) 288-3995

N.D. <l-<J'~-"' 
~ 
(219) 291-6745 g. M-F 7:30-9 

liSli\NLEY H. KAPlAN
c;<.·
M-r I0-9 SAT 8-8 

&. Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances
Edison
SAT 10-9 

SUN 10-5 SUN 12-5 
REGISTRATION FOR THE MCAT CLASS IS: November 30 to December 15 
CHARGE IT BY PHONE 
PHONE: 272-4135 Today!
ALL MAJOR CREDIT CARDS 
Today 

Friday, December 4, 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S page 23 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
lESSON -ifl: 
"WHt:R£ I ~ET MY ID£A5" 
BILL WATTERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
PAD, AR'\:. '{O\J 'iiCARIOUSL'I L\'111\G 
IF I WERE, '{OU TH~ ME IN Tl-IE \-loP£ THA.T MY 
Cf>..N BU I'D BE ACCOMPL\S\-\1<\t.t{\S WILL 'IJALIDI\TE 
RE· E'if\L\lf\TIN.G '«:>VR ME.OIOCR~ 
M~ SIRAit.G-'f L\IT f>..l'ID IN ~E W~~ COMI'(~SI\iE 
FOR All Of T\-1E OPr\:)RT\lN IIIE.S '(O'J \30\C\-\ED;. 
·• 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Harbor 60EIIipse 34 Seed covering 61 Voyager's
1 Tablet 
35Mauna-milieu

4 Cloverleaf part 36 Sortie 62 Lazy person's 8 Rudiments aim
12 Sufficient, in 37 K2 feature poesy 38 Bomb 
63 Author Grey 14 Mary Ann 39 The eighth mo., 64 Haled into court Evans's pen 
once 65 Irish Sea isle name 
40 Small flier 16 Steep 
41 N.B.A. rulers 
DOWN

11 Sicily's smoker 42 Source of 2018 Domingo, e.g. 
Across 1 Nest noise 19 Luck or 47Beill 2 Prefix for bodyBountiful 48 Eponym of the 3 "Je pense,­20Serial of 45th state je suis" 1836-37 49 Source of 25 4 Rod and cone23 A long time Across site24 The 76ers' 57 Swindle 5Composer

coach 25A 1971 58 Rope material Wilder publication 59 Deified one 6 Farmed animal 7 Rear deck 8 Dormant ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Male guinea pig -:-r:=-r:-T:"I 10 Ill-bred men ~;+;-F-f 11 Place for pie? -:+~-E-1 13 Roused 

.;:;+.-=+=:+=-! 15 Crush 
21 "... walk and -notwhat they are": Shak. 
22 Bluegrass ~,;+.:+.-1 genus ~,;.+,;:..j..;...l 25 Steal deer, e.g. F.+::::+.-:+=-lf-i-+.:0:1 26 Musical subject 27 Senator Jake and family ,...;,.;.+=:~ 28 Hill deity 
30 Columnist Goodman 31 6alloonist's 
view 32 Undermines 33 Nile denizen, for 
short 37 Like Dorian 
Gray 38 Movie pass, e.g. 43 Fester 44 Half of CIV 45 Selected 

48 Chess pes. 53 Sneaker feature 49 Metropolitan 
54 Cheese town thrush 
55 Artist Bonheur 50 Ladd or Bean 51 "The-that 

56 Watkins-. touch liquor ..." 
N.Y. resort 

52 A hairy man: 57 A pen name of Gen. 27:11 42Across 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 1023 

Pickpockets of the Rue Morgue 




DOMINO'S DAILY DOUBLE 
Today's Special: 
2 Large Pepperoni 

$995 
Pizzas 

I (Additional toppings 95¢ per pizza) 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid wich any
Call Now 

other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas hmited.co ensure safe driving. Our
ND 271,0300 

drivers carry less than $20. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. 
© 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc.
SMC 289,0033 

MENU Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Grilled Turkey Steak Cheese Ravioli 
Sandwich Apricot Lemon Chicken Mississippi Fried Catfish Swordfish Vegetable Calzone 
LECTURES Friday 
4:3Q p.m. Lecture: "Improper Designs: Gender and Architecture in La Princesse De Cheves," Eva Posfay, professor, Carleton College. Room 131 Decio Hall. Sponsored by Romance Languages department and Gender Studies program. 
CAMPUS Friday 

7:15 and 9:45 p.m. Film, "Naked Lunch." Annenberg Auditorium. 8 and 10:30 p.m. Film: "Patriot Games." Cushing Auditorium. 
Saturday 
10:30 a.m. Storytelling and reading, "Celebrations and Seasons: Stories of Wmter and Festivity." The Snite Museum ofArt. 7 p.m. Saint Mary's Department of Music's 20th annual "Madrigal Dinners." Regina Hall. Saint Mary's College. 8 and 10:30 p.m. Film: "Patriot Games." Cushing Auditorium. 
Lighthouse Mall in 
: Michigan City 
1 Sat. December 5 : $5 tickets available at I LaFortune info. desk : Bus leaves main 1 circle at 10 am and R t_returns a~4_pm___~ 

.. 
.. 

... 
Sports 
page 24 

• 
GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Jock Strip 
Reggie Brooks has earned new title: Legend 
It seems Notre Dame has a different set of standards when it comes to­tagging its football players "legends." 
Most schools consider school records or all-American status as acceptable credentials for a place among the school's a:ll-time best. But under the Golden Dome, all-Americans are a dime a dozen and records are rewritten every year. There is a special something needed to be a legend at Notre Dam()... and earn a place among the greats on the second floor of the JACC. 
In the past ten years, only a few players seem to possess that special trait deserving of legendary status. Tim Brown, Tony Rice, Chris Zorich and Raghib Ismail are the only players in recent years deserving of consideration. Brown because of his Heisman Trophy, Rice and Zorich for their roles as leaders on and off the field, and Ismail because of his gift. 
So many greats passed through Notre Dame during and since the time of those four, and an uncountable number had tremendous careers. But none possessed that special quality which is needed to be a Notre Dame legend. Until this year. 
Reggie Brooks won't win the Heisman, like Brown, or be the outspoken leader of a national championship team, the roles which Rice and Zorich filled. And he doesn't possess a single gift, as Ismail did with his breathtaking speed. 
Brooks's special quality is his story. 
Coach Lou Holtz went looking for a running back during fall practice and after finding no others, settled on Brooks. He made Holtz look like a genius, rushing for 157 yards on nine carries in an opening game win over Northwestern. From that point he never looked back, leading the Irish in rushing in all but two games, despite the presence of superback Jerome Bettis. 
Along the way, Brooks accomplished some amazing feats. His famous run against Michigan stands as one of the greatest in school history. He chased George Gipp's record for most yards per carry the later part of the season, once again awakening the legend of the most storied of all Domers and he became only the fourth Notre Dame runner to gain 1,000 yards in a season, the first in the Holtz era. 
Yet with all·those accomplishments, Brooks still wasn't quite legend material. It took one of the greatest performances in Notre Dame history, against USC last Saturday, to give Brooks the nod. 
Despite a weakening flu, Brooks embarrassed the sixth-ranked rush defense in the nation, and almost single-handedly led Notre Dame to its tenth straight win over the Trojans. At times during the game, he pulled himself out of plays because he was too sick, and at halftime he wondered if he 
see LEGEND/page 17 

._~~~~~~~~~~·~~..:. first game. After a Penn State streak 17. Tennessee 8-3-0 514 18INSIDE SPORTS put the Lady Lions (28-3) up 12-7, 
18. Washington State 8-3-0 415 21
Notre Dame staged a courageous r.:•==:ri-:-s;:-h-:-w:-:-o:-m-:-e-:-n~'s~ba:--s-:k:-:-e-:tba-:--=ll_o_pe_n_s_..., comeback that momentarily silenced 19. Mississippi 8-3-0 398 24 
see page 21 
•en's swimming travels east see page22 
IIWo~ lf)ok to dominate v · · ·· see page 21 

the raucous Lion crowd.  20. North Carolina  8-3-0  396 20  
The run featured three kills and a service ace by senior captain Alicia Turner. When Turner's ace tied the  21. Penn State 22. Arizona  7-4-0 6-4-1  293 22 230 23  
score  at  twelve  Notre  Dame  had  23. Southern Cal  6-4-1  203 19  
momentum on its side.  24. Miss. State  7-4-0  199 16  
The Lady Lions got the serve back,  25. Bri  Youn  8-4-0  138 25  
see VOLLEYBALUpage 21  

Open season for Irish basketball 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
Notre Dame swingman Malik Russell elevates himself during an exhibition game against Australia. 
Men travel to Loyola 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame men basketball team will open it 1992-93 regular season th way last year's regualar ended, at the Rosemon Horizon and then agains Evansville. 
With the Irish on the NCAA tournament bubble, their dreams of going to the Big Dance were dashed by a heart­breaking loss to DePaul at the Horizon and a 7 4-56 blowout in Evansville. 
This season-opening weekend will be-easier in some ways, but more difficult in others. Notre Dame takes on Loyola, not DePaul, at the Horizon tonight at 8 p.m., and it faces Evansville at home on Sunday at 2 p.m. 
The Irish, however, will take the court with four new starters and Billy Taylor, the fifth, at a different position. while Loyola and Evansville return three and five starters respectively. 
"We have improved since the beginning of the year, but we're still a young team," Irish coach John MacLeod commented. "And young teams are going to have their ups and downs." 
MacLeod is hoping that Notre Dame will begin the season on an "up" night. 
"We have got to be ready," he noted. "We are going to be seeing two very good teams. (Loyola and Evansville) play man-to-man defense and are very disciplined teams. They have strong outside games that compliment their inside games." 
The Ramblers spolied Stu Jackson's debut as Wisconsin 
see OPEN/page 19 

Lions eliminate Irish volleyball 
By DAN PIER 


Sports Writer  1. Miami  11-0-0 1,549  1  Sugar  
STATE COLLEGE, Penn.-This team hasn't gone down often this season, but when it has, it has gone down fighting.  2. Alabama 3. Florida State 4. Texas A&M  11-0-0 1,479 10-1-0 1,417 12-0-0 1,382  2 3 4  Sugar/Citrus Orange/Cotton Cotton  
The Notre Dame women's volleyball  5. Notre Dame  9-1-1 1,291  5  Cotton/Orange  
team once again stuck it out to the bitter end in falling to Penn State in last night's first-round NCAA Tournament match. The Nittany Lions defeated the  6. Syracuse 7. Michigan 8. Georgia  9-2-0 1,151 8-0-3 1,149 9-2-0 1,089  8 7 9  Fiesta Rose Gator/Citrus  
Irish 15-13, 15-8, and 15-9 at Penn  9.Colorado  9-1-1  99610  Fiesta  
State's Recreation Hall. "I never thought that we were out of it," head coach Debbie Brown said of her team. "I've seen this team come  10. Washington 11. Nebraska 12. Florida  9-2-0 8-2-0 8-3-0  988 11 Rose 943 12 Orange 860 6 Sugar/Citrus/Gator  

back time and again, and I had every 13. N.C. State 9-2-1 859 13 reason to believe we could do that 
14. Stanford 9-3-0 819 14
again tonight." 

15. Ohio State 8-2-1 702 15
The Irish were in need of a comeback thanks to a heartbreaking 16. Boston College 8-2-1 570 17 
All-American Blockbuster Citrus Hall of Fame Hall of Fame Copper Liberty Peach Blockbuster John Hancock Freedom Peach Aloha 


,.--~~----------------------~-------­
Viewpoint 
Monday, December 7, 1992 page 9 

The Observer 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Ku os' to women 1n war com 
Dear Editor: Today's battlefields span oceans For his part, he blew up r~i!·-wiiiiiiii; 
Just a short note to one E. and continents. Gone are the headings, ferried Jews to Johnson of Dillon Hall: kudos days of sword play and Sweden, and stitched diapers to you for having the guts to wrestling. for his newborn daughter from admit a rather personal belief We live in a world of stand-otT the silk R.A.F. parachutes he in the very public pages of The weapons, where the finger that collected during clandestine Observer. After much consid­launches the missile or releases weapon drops. His wife hid eration and soul-searching (I the payload or pulls the trigger grenades and machine guns found it by my colon), I, too, may very well be the same under the false bottom of the have decided to come "out of finger that supported a baby's pram she used for her daugh­the closet" in a show of head in the maternity ward. ter. amnesty. If someone questions the She walked around the tovm, 
I want the world, or at least ability of women to withstand delivering weapons to her this distinguished readership, to the terror of Vietnam-style compatriots, the baby girl know that I also believe that combat, I feel they should be cooing all the way. She would differences, both physical and given the chance to prove it. have killed any Nazi who made chemical exist between men I feel they already have. a move for the contraband or and women. It is not, however, During the Second World War, her child. 
Dear Editor: touch with her and "Connie"
a belief based solely on faith. many Soviet women served in The issue of women in combat On the morning of June 13, says she is very happy that sheAs for the rest of your article the Red Air Force, downing is a very serious one. I hope I 1992, "Connie" approached an decided to keep her baby. But(Women's physical, chemical scores of Nazi planes. Israeli have not belittled it in any way. 
abortion clinic in Chicago for now we are asking the Notremakeup precludes combat), I women are drafted into that The rape of our female POW's 
her scheduled abortion. She Dame community to help
am hard-pressed to find a point nation's armed forces on an during the Gulf War does raise was approximately 10 weeks "Connie."
you raise with which I can equal footing with men. serious objections as to their pregnant. Even though all of "Connie's" agree. If "Nature reflects this Their country's very survival participation in combat Before entering the building, medical expenses are beingperfectly. The biggest and is a testament to their ability. situations. It does in no way sidewalk counselors asked to covered by a Catholic hospitalstrongest animal is the one who During the Gulf War, thousands reflect on their ability to speak with he"r. (Sidewalk in Chicago, she and her familysurvives; this would be the of American women went "in perform combat duties. I 
counselors are those people still have many needs.
male," why is it that, on the av­harm's way" to do their duty. fi had to run across No Man's who try to encourage women to "Connie's" family includes hererage, women live longer than One was captured and raped by Land, I would rather have a keep their babies and offer husband and two sons, ages six men? Iraqi soldiers. qualified and committed woman 
helpful and compassionate and ten. 
And what of resiliency? I They raped her because she covering me than a man whose information to women facing We would like to make this awould say that any form that was a woman. They couldn't moral fiber was ofweaker stuff. 
crisis pregnancies.) special Christmas for the wholecan carry, deliver, and nurture shatter her spirit or To exclude such women from 
After talking for about 15 family as well as help them
an offspring under the cruelest commitment because she was a combat on the wrong minutes, "Connie" agreed to go prepare for their new arrival in of conditions is a far more re­tremendously brave, strong, assumption that they are not as to a crisis pregnancy center less January. We also want tosilient form than one who resilient human being. capable is a waste of valuable than a mile away. continue to help "Connie"merely rolls over and feigns I recall a story I have been manpower. Pardon the pun. 
After her visit at this center, throughout the next year. 
sleep. told a few times: in April of For the record, the boy and "Connie" asked to be driven Regardless of your position onCombat in these final few 1940, the Germans invaded and his bride are my grandparents, back to the clinic where she abortion, all should agree thatyears of the twentieth century conquered Denmark in six Kurt and Gurli Jensen. The lit­was to meet her husband. Upon this is a worthy cause. If youhas equated the sexes. A hours. A twenty-year-old boy tle girl, my mother. 
seeing her husband and briefly have any baby clothes or otherwoman is just as capable at and his nineteen-year-old bride Jonathan M. Walsh speaking with him in front of baby paraphernalia you wouldsqueezing otT a few rounds from quit the life they were planning Morrissey Hall the clinic doors, "Connie" like to give to "Connie" or if you an M-16 rifle as any man is. and joined the Resistance. Dec.3,1992 

announced, with a broad would like to contribute cash beautiful smile, that they had towards a crib, please call me decided to keep their baby! at 271-7137. Most importantly, On the spot, the c6unselors please include "Connie" and her 
promised "Connie" and her family in your prayers. 
husband any help that they Mary Rose Lalli 
needed. The counselor who first NO & SMC Right to Life 
spoke with her has kept in Dec.3,1992 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
H/J,YNN,IT5 FRIJM TH/3
RICK. 15Ja4N/13 atNTONIANS! 
IN 7H£ OfffC£ ~ SH&JU5T 

'There is no such thing as bad 
Wt:NTOV~ 

weather, only different kinds of 
--~ POl<. Htl<. IN­
TtRV!W/ 
good weather.'
f 

~ 
John Ruskin 
Find a silver Untng, submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 
12-7 
Viewpoint
page 10 Monday, December 7, 1992 
Campus Ministry handled issues 'incompletely' 
homosexual person is not a sin, legitimately limited for objec­harmless. if not an entirelyAlumnus Paul Fisher's in­it is a more or less strong ten­tively disordered external con­good thing' and hence worthy of 
formative paid advertisement dency ordered toward an in­Charles E. Rice duct. This is sometimes not public approval. on homosexuality, in the Nov. 6 trinsic moral evil, and thus the Right or Wrong? only licit but obligatory.... In­It is from this quarter that 
issue, drew fire from Campus inclination itself must be seen cluding 'homosexual orienta­one is more likely to find those 
Ministry and others. The CDF letter then applies
as an objective disorder.'. . . 'It tion' among the considerations who seek to 'manipulate the
these principles to the proposed 
is deplorable that homosexual on the basis of which it is illegal church by gaining the often
As Campus Ministry noted in legislation:
persons have been and are the to discriminate can easily lead well-intentioned support of herits Nov. 12 response, that office object of violent malice in to regarding homosexuality as a pastors with a view to changinghas correctly explained to the speech or in action. "'Sexual orientation' does not positive source of human rights, civil statutes and laws' [and)Notre Dame community some 
Such treatment deserves constitute a quality comparable for example, in respect to so­those who use the tactic ofbasic elements of the homo­condemnation....But the to race, ethnic background, called affirmative action or protesting that 'any and all
sexual issue. 
proper reaction to crimes etc.. in respect to nondiscrimi­preferential treatment in hiring criticism of or reservations
However, Campus Ministry 
committed against homosexual nation. Unlike these, homo­practices. about homosexual people ...arehas generally failed to inform persons should not be to claim sexual orientation is an objec­This is all the more deleteri­simply diverse forms of unjust
the community on two aspects 
that the homosexual condition tive disorder.... There are ous since there is no right to discrimination."'of the issue: on the intrinsic is not disordered. orientation into account, for ex-homosexuality...which there­Campus Ministry's incom­disorder of the homosexual When such a claim is made ample, in the placement of fore should not form the basis plete treatment of the homo­
inclination itself and on the jus­and when homosexual activity children for adoption or foster for judicial claims.... The sexual issue poorly serves the
tifiability of discrimination 
is consequently condoned, or care, in employment of teachers 'sexual orientation' of a person Notre Dame community. The
against homosexuals in some or athletic coaches, and in
when civil legislation is intro-is not comparable to race, sex, CDF letter incorporates muchsituations. 
duced to protect behavior to military recruitment. age, etc. also for another rea­Church teaching on the subject. 
Specifically, to the date of which no one has any conceiv-Homosexual persons, as hu­son.... An individual's sexual Although it is not itself an of­this writing, Campus Ministry able right, [no one) should be man persons, have the same orientation is generally not ficial teaching, Notre Damehas not publicized the recent surprised when other distorted rights as all persons, including known to others unless he pub­students were entitled to be in­observations communicated by notions and practices gain the right of not being treated in licly identifies himself as having formed about it so that theythe Congregation for the Doc­ground, and irrational and vio-a manner which offends their this orientation or unless some could adequately form theirtrine of the Faith (CDF) to the lent reactions increase.'... 'In personal dignity.... Among overt behavior manifests it. .. judgments on the subject. ThatAmerican bishops on legislative assessing [the] proposed legis-other rights, all persons have Homosexual persons who assert they were not so informed isproposals "which would make lation, the...uppermost con-the right to work, to housing, their homosexuality tend to be one indication, among others,discrimination on the basis of cern [should be] the responsi-etc. precisely those who judge that, at this Prestigious Re­sexual orientation illegal." 
bility to defend and promote Nevertheless, these rights are homosexual behavior or search University, the func­Released to the public by the familv life."' 
not absolute. They can be lifestyle to be.. 'completely tionally official religion is Politi­Vatican on July 23, the docu­cal Correctness. 
ment was intended as "a back­~~--; 
In general, and beyond theground resource" rather than homosexual issue, Campus
"an official and public instruc­Ministry would serve the com­tion on the matter." Neverthe­munity if it would present every
less, it is indefensible that 
week in The Observer a currentCampus Ministry has not fully 
statement of the Pope on a
communicated its contents to moral or social issue. At thisthe Notre Dame community. 
allegedly Catholic institution,The CDF document first re­the Pope ought to be entitled atviews basic elements of the is­least to equal time. 
sue: "'[l]ndividual homosexual actions' are 'intrinsically disor­
Professor Rice is a member of
dered' and 'in no case to be ap­
the Law School faculty. His
proved of'.... 'Although the 
column appears every other
particular inclination of the 
Monday. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Do human rights exist in our world? Television is only a 
Dear Editor: improved, at which point the economic well-being had ' fl t• f • t 
' 

The term human rights was people could begin enjoying full consistently better human re ec I 0 n 0 socIe y
used by Eleanor Roosevelt human rights. rights records than those who ' wh~n. as co-c~ai~ of the United :\S for when trickle-down did not. not the arch.I teet of I. t 
NatiOns CommissiOn on Human might take place and the extent Rights, she helped draft the of the sacrifice and cost to be This view may be right to a Universal Declaration of Human paid by the people, such ques-certain degree, despite possible society in a post-industrial age, 
Dear Editor:
Rights. tions remain unanswered. differences on what is meant by a society where single mothers
This letter is in response to
She discovered that the term On the one hand, it is not "better human rights records". are forced to go to work. I don't
Jeffrey O'Donnells' editorial
rights of man as it appeared in correct to ignore the concrete Not to be overlooked, however, remember Murphy Brown ac­
"Media assault family values' • 
a number of documents was not outcome of economic is the fact that countries cepting her motherhood with
(The Observer, Dec. 3).
automatically understood in development by which per described as enjoying higher great jubilation. But then, what
To begin with, we laughed at 
some parts of the world to capita income has increased levels of economic well-being were the other alternatives?
Dan Quayle not because he
include the rights of woman. and widespread material also have human rights records We could declare a "cultural
used his elected position to
The rights of man phrase had _improvements have occurred. as bad as or worse than poor war" on Hollywood. You com­
preach about morality, but be­
at an earlier date replaced the On the other hand, one may countries. mented that Stalin wanted to 
cause of his incapacity to dis­
term natural rights, widely not ignore that such serious control Hollywood, in order to
tinguish between fact and fan­
used during the Enlightenment. ongoing violations of human Comparison of the human control the world. What do you
tasy. He went after a fictitious
Later, on Dec. 10, 1948, the rights still happen in many rights situation in South Korea think Mr. Buchanan plans to
character. What if he had gone
United Nations General Assem-parts of the world. and Sri Lanka are the best do? Liberals have not taken
after Bugs Bunny, and told him 
bly adopted the Universal Dec­examples for this argument. control of the media. As far as I
to stop beating up on Elmer
laration of Human Rights. The The trade-ofT theory between can see, public television has
Fudd? The creators of the
General Assembly proclaimed economic development and It is difficult to deny that even not been outlawed. 
show responded by entertain­
this Declaration as "a common non-economic development, or though South Korea in terms of Certainly, I respect your con­
ing our noble vice-president by
standard of achievement for all what is widely used as the economy can be considered a cern for our morality. But, you
incorporating Mr. Quayle, a
peoples and nations," and de­trade-ofT between development newly industrializing country take us as unthinking automa­
real character, into their first
clared that "all human beings and human rights, arose from (NIC), its human rights record tons being brainwashed by the
episode.
are born free and equal in dig­the idea that the exercise of has not yet improved. "media elite. • I don't take Bart
Putting Mr. Quayle behind
nity and rights". many human rights, both eco­Simpson or Murphy Brown se­
me, I must admit that the qual­
But for many countries in the nomic, social and cultural, and On the other hand, Sri Lanka, riously, in the same way I don't
ity of the family is declining in
world, especially the Third civil and political, interferes obviously is not a developed This a serious take Mr. Quayle seriously.
America. is
World, the real meaning of this with or slows the rate of eco­country-and, as in South Cheers is a comedy, not politi­
problem. But I don't subscribe
Declaration is no more than nomic growth and development. Korea, human rights violations cal propaganda. Lilith, a satire
to the liberal r,onspiracy theory. 
words on paper. They are still continue. of feminism, makes me laugh.
Television Is, as with all media,facing serious problems of the Therefore it has been a reflection of society, and not
"trade-off" between human regularly argued that in the What will mankind be like Greg Moriarty
the architect of it. Murphy
rights and development. interest of both human rights when it enters the twenty-first Grace Hall
Brown reflects the change in
Theorists of economic devel­and development many, even century? People are already Dec. 3, 1992 opment hold that it must be­most, internationally recog­fascinated by this not too dis­succeed whatever cost and sac­nized human rights must be tant future. rifice are shouldered by the temporarily suspended. people because, in the end, But the real "trade-off" economic development will In this connection, it is inter­between human rights and bring with it benefits of the esting to note the observation of development still happens in other categories of human some scholars that economic many countries. Isn't it ironic rights. modernization leads to political that many people in the world 
The prevailing notion among stability and in turn, to in­still question: "Are there any economic planners has been creased respect for human human rights?" that this form of trickle-down rights. would ultimately take place Satya Arinanto when the economic condition of They argued that countries Graduate Student the people was sufficiently which enjoyed higher levels of Dec.4,1992 



Accent 
Monday, December 7, 1992 page 11 

publishable quality. Out of the twelve people currently in
By ELISABETH HEARD 
Accent Writer 
the program, each one comes from a 
different background and has different 
What do a Ouija board, a Gypsy, a goals for the years ahead. phone call, and a midwife all have in Benedict graduated from the common? University of Massachusetts, and from 
They are all subjects of stories tha1 there went to work as a lobbyist in are going to be read by graduatE Washington. After getting his masters in students in the creative writing progran; creative writing, he would like to teach here at Notre Dame. on the college level and publish. "I 
would also like to do a movie, write the 
On Monday, December 7th at 7 p.m. ir screenplay and direct," he said, "and if the faculty lounge in the Hesburgt dollars permit, travel." Library, eight students in this prograrr Searfoss graduated from Indiana will read either short stories or excerpt! University and worked as a reporter in fmm novels that they have written. advertising and public relations. "My 
"It is sort of a fantasy is to buy a horse farm, breed program," said Jessica Lapp, a secom I~ horses and ride, " she said wistfully, "but year Masters student in the Creativ1 I will probably work for the advertising writing program and a third year Ph. D agency thirty hours a week and use the student in the English department. "It i: extra hours for writing." to tell everyone that Notre Dame doe: have a creative writing program." Lapp graduated from Goshen college 
in Goshen, Indiana, and worked as a 
The reading will last approximate!: high school teacher for four years before two hours, with each person reading fo returning to pursue her masters in cre­about fifteen minutes. The reading wil ative writing and Ph. D. in English, while be informal, so students and faculty ar· McGee took off a year of school before invited to come in at any time during th· returning to school. He entered into the program and stay for as long as the creative writing program in fall of 1991, would like. Light refreshments will b and after graduating, he will either served. teach full time or go for his Ph. D.. 
The stories that will be read range i subject matter. Lapp will be reading he One thing all of these students have in short story "Where I'm Calling From. common is a love for reading and "It is about a woman calling home on writing, and the desire to pursue their business trip and taking stock on her !if dreams. "All of us are interested in pub­at that time," she said. lishing," said Lapp. Benedict adds, "and 
teaching is also a big common thing 
Matthew Benedict, a first year gra among us all. As a writer, you have a student, is going to read "The Ouij love for the word, and it is nice to share Board," a short story about a brothe 
that with someone." and sister who are cleaning out thei 
These grad students find that they mother's house after she dies of cance 
have many things in common with other and find a Ouija board in the attic. 
graduate students who are not "Trimester" by William McGee, 
necessarily in the English programs. "More than half have done other things'Teaching is also a big between undergraduate and graduate
who may or may not be a Gypsy. "It During the workshop, three people 
work," said Benedict. "The community
common thing among us. focuses on friendship between women, each week give copies of their stories to of the university is very supportive. The As a writer you have to and testing the boundaries of love," the others in the class, and the students mind is working always." 
Searfoss said. critique it. "You get one or two peoplehave a love for the word, This is just a preview of half of the who don't agree," said Searfoss. The reading that will take place on stories which will be read, and the topics "You never get a story that everybody 
Monday night is a chance for theand it is nice to share that of the remaining four are equally hated or everybody loved," said Lapp. 
students in this new program to get
interesting. "The other four are just as "Everyone has a different style." 
with someone.' some exposure. This reading is the first 
diverse," said Benedict. "And it's nice to have a variety of view 
one of its kind here at Notre Dame, and -Jessica Lapp points," adds Benedict. "The people are there are plans to have another one next 
The creative writing program is brand very friendly and informal." 
semester. They encourage everyone tosecond year grad student, focuses on the new, having been started in the fall of attend and listen to the stories that theyrelationship between a midwife and an 1990. The director is William O'Rourke, A master's in creative writing takes have to tell. "The basic reason for doing
abnormal pregnancy, while Cynthia who has had several fiction and non two years to complete, and the 
this," said Benedict, "is to say 'here weSearfoss, a second year student, reads fiction books published. Each semester, requirement to graduate is to write a are.'" an excerpt from her novel, Toll Roads. the students must take one to two collection of short stories or a novel of 
Harvard professor Gould to speak about the mystery of evolution 
By MATT CARBONE Earlier this year, the faculty of This theory postulates that Professor of Geology, and Gould explains this by saying Accent Writer the Biology Department asked evolution is not a smooth, slow, Curator of Invertebrate Paleon­that up to a certain point in its 
their students to send written and steady process, but is tology in Harvard's Museum of gestation, the human fetus is 
invitations to those speakers instead a haphazard happening Comparative Zoology. neither male nor female. 
You have a monstrous amount whom they would like to see at which occurs in leaps and He has won awards for his During this time when the sex of studying to do for finals, but ND. spurts. In these spurts, many teaching, his nonfiction books, of the fetus is not yet you don't want to begin just yet. genetic changes take place in a and his research. determined, mammary glands Still, you don't want to totally Charlebois decided to write relatively short period of time. In his lecture, Gould will develop, in the event that the isolate your mind from Gould, one of the premier Then, the species will remain at speak about the different fetus becomes a female. academic pursuits and turn into evolutionists in the world. a certain stage of development interpretations and Sometimes, as is its wont, the a mound of intellectual Knowing that he is very much for millions and millions of explanations of evolution, and fetus becomes a male. By this uselessness. in demand, and that ND has years, until the next spurt of will show how we can examine time, however, the mammary 
A happy medium awaits you: been trying to get Gould for a change occurs. the development of humans to glands are already present, and reknowned evolutionist and long time, her hopes were not Gould received his undergrad­observe our evolution. the male is stuck with them for geologist Stephen Jay Gould will very high, making Gould's uate degree in geology from An­As an example of what the his lifetime. be at NO to make a acceptance that much more tioch College in 1963, and his lecture holds in store, and how So if you're interested in male presentation entitled "The exciting. Ph.D. in geology from Columbia development can be used to ex­nipples, or would just like a Proper Integration of The recipient of a staggering University in 1967. plain evolution, Charlebois ex­break before you plunge into Development and Evolution" on number of awards, degrees, He went on to become a plained Gould's answer to one your torturous studying, the Wednesday, December 9th. and fellowships, Gould is most faculty wember of Harvard of the most perplexing presentation will be held in the 
Gould is attending at the be­noted for his "punctuated University, rising to his current questions facing humankind Hesburgh Library Auditorium hest of Pat Charlebois, a gradu­equilibrium" theory of positions as· the Alexander today -Why do males have at 8 p.m. Admission is free and ate student of Biology at ND. evolution. Agas~iz Professor of Zoology, mammary glands? open to the public. 
workshop. 


Accent

page 12 Monday, December 7, 1992 
•

The enigma of Teach For Arne r1ca 
Corps volunteers' good intentions run up a 
By DAVID KINNEY enabled a team of college 'chapter 1' school that is strong 
News Editor graduates to make the idea a in math and reading. reality in 1990. TFA's $7 million budget is met primarily through Since the school is in a low in­
Barb Moran, a first-year corporate and foundation come area, it faces teacher and teacher at an inner-city junior donations. textbook shortages, and the high in Houston, has lost hope. drastic cuts to this year's state 
"I don't want to face it any­TFA recruits heavily at over budget offer no promise for the more," she said. "I thought it 150 college campuses, seeking, future. was a way I could make a in particular, minorities, bilin­But the school is unique in difference. But I can't make a gual speakers, and math, that many of the children come difference." science and foreign language from different areas of 
Moran, who graduated from majors. Pasadena with different the University of Notre Dame in Over 8,500 people have ap­economic and cultural May, is among 600 young stu­plied in the program's first backgrounds, according to dents who gave up plans for three years, and 1,800 have Stevens. The school is well­graduate schools and profes­been placed in schools around known for its ability to offer en­sional careers to enlist in the the nation as corps members. richment programs and English Teach for America program This year, over 300 have language development to its (TFA) this year. applied from Notre Dame alone, students. 
The program sponsors a na­according to Suzanne Muchin, The experience is a tional corps of college TFA's midwest recruiter. rewarding one for Steven. graduates who commit two Corps members are placed "Seeing kids progress is really years of teaching in under­according to academic back­exciting." resourced and rural public grounds, personal preferences And while she said teaching is schools. TFA seeks primarily initially frustrating and non-education majors in order 'I'm not being driven challenging. it is not hopeless. to attract a new pool of people "You have to look into yourself into teaching. out by the kids, I'm in order to deal with yourself 
For Moran, that meant being being driven out by and to deal with others," she thrust into a violent, poverty­explained. stricken public school composed the hopelessness of Many TFA participants stay in mostly of Hispanics and blacks. education, Muchin said. Of the 
"It's a lot like hazing in a the whole system.' 1990 corps group, 60 percent sorority," Moran said, calling are still teaching and 69
-Barb Moran

the transition stunning and the percent are still in education. school "unimaginable." She and the needs of each school. Others return to graduate teaches five reading classes -Currently, TFA places young studies or professional fields without books -in a room in­teachers in 14 locations, includ­elsewhere. fested with cockroaches. ing New York City, Los Angeles, Among the goals of the pro­
Washington, D.C., and rural ar­gram is to open member's eyes 
Moran described a school eas of North Carolina, Arkansas to the problems inherent in the marked by unchecked violence and Georgia. American public school system and public sex. She explained Although TFA provides initial and what needs to be done. that students there aspire to ca­training, Muchin acknowledged For Moran, the root of the reers as sluts, pimps and drug that members face culture problem is the family, and that dealers. shock, whether it is racial, geo­is where the hopelessness lies. 
"They have no vision," she graphical or financial. "What can be done to help the said. "Most of them are just Since most members do not family? Nothing." mired in the system." have a background in education She said money in the system 
Moran said that TFA is a good and little or no teaching experi­is spent poorly, citing the pur­program with an excellent ence, the program includes a chase of four VCRs at a school training program and support. pre-service institute to provide where teachers don't even have "We've got the right idea, but members the resources and textbooks. they're not going to change the guidance to prepare them for Muchin, who spent two years 
system." their first year of teaching, ac­as a corps member in South 
And most agree that the sys­cording to Muchin. Bronx, said recruiting better tem throughout the nation is in Corps members also travel to and more dedicated teachers is shambles. "The school system is their schools as part of a local essential. "We need to get so bad," Moran said. "And TFA induction that orients them to different people in the is just a band -aid." their school and community. classrooms, and make teaching 
The program, developed in There, they become salaried a respectable occupation." 
low. "Districts need to find of the whole system." 
concept by Wendy Kopp in teachers working side-by-side "All of these bright and 
better ways to recruit She said she plans to leave
1989, operates under the vision with professionals. enthusiastic people are going 
teachers," she said. "People education for a while, spend
that "one day, all children in Not all members face the ex­elsewhere" because of the low 
who can leave do." some time with her family andthis nation will have an equal tremes Moran describes. Adri­salary base for teachers, she As for Moran, at the end of perhaps go into journalism. Butopportunity to attain a quality anne Stevens. a graduate of added. 
this year, she is leaving Houston has left its mark on
education." Tufts University, was placed at While TFA cannot solve these Houston. her.
Initial funding from the Mobil the Cleveland Elementary problems, Muchin said she 
''I'm not being driven out by "Maybe someday, I'll goFoundation and Union Carbide School in Pasadena, Calif.. a hopes the program can serve as the kids," she said. ''I'm being back." 
Spreading holiday cheer 
Musical performances announce Christmas season 
_,. By SARAH DORAN performed by an ensemble of series," said Eric Kuhner, an accompaniment also features Christmas recital each year. Accent Writer Notre Dame music students as administrative assistant in the all student soloists." Cramer is spending this year 
part of Advent Vespers in the music department. "It is always The annual Glee Club Concert and next performing the com­The holiday season is well un­Basilica of the Sacred Heart. central to the music will be performed Saturday De­plete works of Bach by doing 
derway on campus as students department's Chrismas cember 12 in the JACC. "The one work concert each month encounter signs of Christmas The second performance, performance series and a Glee Club concert draws great and one work each concert for everywhere they turn. To help which took place last night, was beautiful performance," crowds. They can always be each of the two years. His further this feeling of holiday the annual Advent Lessons and counted on to put on a great recitals are being given at cheer, Notre Dame's music de­Carols program. It featured The third concert offered by show," said Kuehner. (Tickets different places around the partment in conjunction with carols performed by the Basil­the music department is the are 1$ at the door and Northern Indiana-Chicago area Campus Ministry will present a ica's chioir, women's choir, folk Handel's "Messiah," perfromed LaFortune Box office.) and throughout the country, number of holiday programs choir. schola choir and handbell on December 10 in Washington said Keuhner. that feature both student and choir. Hall by the Notre Dame Chorale The last of the Christmas per­faculty performers. and Orchestra. formances is a faculty organ "Bach is a composer whose 
"Advent Lessons is part of the "What is being presented is recital to be performed by Craig works are often featured in 
Bach's Cantata No. 61, "Nun annual vespers series that in­the Christmas portiiJn of the Cramer, an organ professor at Christmas performances. Two komm der Heiden Heiland," cludes a number of different "Messiah" rather than the Notre Dame, on Sunday Decem­of the five university perfor­was the first program offered student groups and choirs that entire piece," said Kuehner, ber 13 in the Basilica, featuring mances being offered this sea­on November 29. It was perform during the vespers "the choir and orchf:lstra works of Bach. Cramer gives a son feature Bach, said Keuhner. 

Monday, December 7, 1992 
Wins 
continued from page 20 
was fouled with 39 seconds left but hit only one of two. Loyola turned it over the en­suing possession, but Notre Dame could not run out the clock, as Russell traveled with 14 seconds remaining. The Ramblers failed to take advantage of the gift as Bernie Salth blew a layup, and Joe Ross grabbed the rebound to give the Irish the win. "We got a good shot, but it just didn't fall," Loyola coach Will Rey said of the last shot. On Sunday, Notre Dame looked like a completely differ­ent team in its upset of Evansville. Ryan Hoover, who was pulled in favor of Russell in the final minutes of the Loyola game, played like a veteran at the point. "My job is to hit my shots and get the offense going," Hoover s~d. · He did just that, scoring a game-high 21 points while hit­
ting six of seven shots from the 
floor and seven of seven from 
the line. 
"Ryan had a big improvement 
from Friday night," MacLeod 
said of the freshman. "He's 
going to have his ups and 
downs. Hopefully, he won't have 
too many downs." 
Evansville had a 51-39 lead with 16:45 left, but the Irish kept their composure and ·gradually chipped away at the 
lead. 
"We started to play good de­fense, and that was what al­lowed us to come back," Russell 
said. ·' After going to a smaller lineup, featuring Russell at center, the Irish began to click. "We didn't want to play big people against their quick peo­ple. That group we had on the floor played very well," MacLeod said. "We came together as a team in the second half. We began to relax and were more sure of ourselves," he added. The Irish took their first iead of the second half with 8:39 left when Boyer hit a three-pointer, 

The Observer 
and he then opened the Notre Dame advantage to 66-61 when he drove the lane for a layup. 
"I thought Brooks gave us a tremendous boost off the bench," MacLeod commented. "He gave us help when we needed it." 
The Aces responded, taking a 70-68 lead with 2:16 remaining on Scott Schreffier's trey. 
Fourteen seconds later, Monty Williams hit two foul shots to tie the game, and the Irish defense then forced a 45-second violation. 
With 1:02 remaining, Hoover fed Russ.ell for what proved to be the game-winning layup. 
"We had been running that play and they (Evansville) had been laying off me. I got the ball in the post, and I had an open layup," Russell explained. 
Russell then drew a charge on the other end, and Boyer sunk two free throws to ice the game with 14 seconds left. 
"We now know where we are," MacLeod said. "I'm happy with how we played, and we are improving. This is a real confidence builder for us." 
EVANSVILLE (1-1) 
Schreffier 6-12 2-4, Casebier 5-17 7­
8 18, Elkins 8-14 0-1 21, Cochenour 3-6 
0-0 8, Jackson 1-4 4-6 6, Hisle 0-1 0-0 0, 
Hath 0-0 0-0 0, Walker 0-0 0-0 0, 
Chandler 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 23-54 13-19 _70. NOTRE DAME (2-0) Williams 4-7, 8-10 17, Russell 3-8 3­
Joe Ross 0-0 0-0 0, Justice 0-0 0-0 0. Boyer 2-4 2-2 7. Totals 24-46 24-27 76. 
Halftime-Evansville 39, Notre Dame 32. 3-point goals-Evansville 11-24 (Elkins 5-6, Schreffier 3-6, Cochenour 2-5, Casebier 1-5, Jackson 0-1, Hisle 0-1). Notre Dame 4-7 (Hoover 2-3, Williams 1-1, Boyer 1-1, Cozen 0-2). 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from I 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the .. Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Lost:  14K gold bracelet. Would the  Help! I need a ride to the  ND alum in Chicago has perfect  P-N"""'-'  
NOTICES  young man who called on Thurs. Dec. 3 please call again?  WASHINGTON DC Area for X-mas Break. I can leave as early as  X-mas gift for you from Mom and Dad: 1984 BMW 318i, sunroof,  SMC/ND SUMMER PROGRAMS.  SENIORS SENIORS Pick up Weekly Bulletin at  
239-7007. Thank you.  Thurs. Dec. 17. Please call Allison  5-spd., am/fm, cassette, garaged  LONDON AND ROME.  
ATIENTION:  at  X4758 or X4721  since owned, low miles, perfect  MEETING DEC. 9TH, 6:15 pm-ND  Career & Placement Services  
For more information and  LOST: One pair of fruit-punch  condition, complete with ND sticker.  LIBRARY LOUNGE.  
assistance regarding the  soaked size 13 Tevas in the stadium  FEMALE SEEKING NEAT,  Must sell! $6400 or best offer.  (312)  INFO: CALL PROF. A.R. BLACK  for invitational interviews for the  
investigation of financing, business  lot. If found, please call Tony at 287­ NONSMOKING HOUSEMATE  348-7867.  284-4460 OR 272-3726  first two weeks of the Spring  
opportunities and work-at-home  9341 because I doubt they'll fit you.  10 MIN. FROM CAMPUS.  GO IRISH!  semester-turn in resumes through  
opportunities, THE OBSERVER  No questions asked.  $260/MONTH. 277-7048.  Need a ride to the PHILADELPHIA  THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10.  
urges its readers to contact the  For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call  area??  
Better Business Bureau of  LOST:  14K GOLD BRACELET  ND prof has car but dislikes driving,  Rita Delivery on Campus  I'm headed home and looking for  ••• GROVER!!!!! •••  
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  REWARD OFFERED. 239-7007  seeks someone to share driving  234-6524  someone to share the driving.  If  Thursday night left me curious.  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ FROM 8-5 OR 277-5132 AFTER 5.  from South Bend December 26 to  you can drive a stick shift car, call  must talk to you again. Call Rex  
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 or 800-439-5313.  SKIIS...please...SKIIS...please  Akron-Cleveland area, and back January  TICKETS  Greg at 289-4947.  *16'13 and dinner is on me!  
If you have any info on Rossignol &  2. Call AI at 5378.  Anyone need a ride to Long Island  We're looking for the male runner  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  K2 skiis that SKIIED out of a  for Christmas Break? X4035  wearing BUGLE BOYS December 3  
storage closet in Farley Hall, contact  MODELS: Photographer needs  I NEED 2 lU-ND  at 9 p.m. Please contact the girls in  
TYPING  Paula at  283-4271.  Reward if  college-age females for photos in  Basketball tix  It's FINALLY here!  the Honda  
'287-4082  found ...extra Christmas  .,.... sports-tlJ'Parel. Call Jim at 273-7(}74  Diane, you're 21 I ! !  (284-44.13, 284-4367, 284-4443.)  
cash...Piease!!l  after 5 for info.  Mike x1161  We know you'll make it worth the  
WordWorks Typing Service  wait ... but remember: those who  Let's Go Greyhound  
Term papers, dissertations, theses  LOST: Black psych folder w/exp  Need RIDERS to Wise, VA  drink last drink most I :)  New York­$116 md/trip.  
277-7406  card & notes; last seen at N. Dining  (SWVa) for Xmas break.  MARDI GRAS!!  luv, D & E (or is that F & G ?)  D.C.  -$135 rnd/trip.  
Hall last Wed.; if you have it  Call Lisa at x2620  For Sale: One-way plane ticket from  Richmond VA  -$147.50 rnd/trip.  
All WORDPROCESSING services.  call x4586-ask for Steve; no  S.B. to New Orleans on Feb. 19 or  Philadelphia­ $128. rnd/trip.  
Andy 234-8789  questions  FOR RENT  any day. You name the price. 233­1958  IRISH VOLLEYBALL  Call 287-6541 for details.  
Babysitter/Housekeeper available  LOST: green London Fog  Congrats on a tremendous  Adoption: Doctor and teacher will  
2nd semester, MWFS; pay  down-filled jacket in 202 DeBart.  4, 5 or 6 bdrm. furnished houses,  Need GAs to Kentucky x4890$$  season and thanks for dragging  make dreams for your baby come  
negotiable, EXCELLENT  before Thanksgiving break.  SAFE, wash/dry, beach V-ball,  me along last week. You ruleI  true. Full-time parenting. Best of the  
REFERENCES. Please call Tanya at 283-1880.  If you found it, please call Laura x4801 ... 1t's cold outside  sec. sys. 233-9947.  PERSONAL  Woody  city; summers by the beach: your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy  
and I need my jacket!!!! Thanks.  2 bdr. apts available  (No, AT, that's NOT my real name)  fireplace in winter, and by ocean  
STEPHEN JAY GOULD IS  close to campus  AMANDA  KAY  waves in summer. Art, music, the  
COMING! Wednesday, December  Help!! If you took my blue N.D.  $300 per month  have a wonderful day  P.S. See you next year 11111!!1!!1!!!!  best education, endless love. Call  
9th at 8:00pm in the Hesburgh  backpack from North Dining Hall on  avilable for 2nd semester  Franny or Stephen collect.  
Library Auditorium.  Tue., Dec 1st at dinner, I'm still  and '92 -'93 school year  ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif.  (212)369-2597.  
ILOST & FOUND I  waiting for your call. (Raissa x4890) You have some papers that I really need back!! They couldn't be of any  call 232 -8256 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Confidential  MOE HOE HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE  RIDER NEEDED-I'm driving to NYC for break & need a rider. Call  
value to you, so why don't you just  219-291-7153  and legal. Expenses paid. Call  WORLD'S OLDEST SENIORI!I  271-0742  <­ 
STRIPED & SWIPED!!!  take all the loose papers and stick  Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805)  Now that you're finally twenty-two  
them back in one of the cubby holes  ROOMMATE WANTED:  520-5978 or attorney (818) 241­ don't you think you could suck it up  
SOMEONE STOLE MY BARBER  where you found the bag originally!  to live w/ 2 fem. grad students  5535.  and crash with something besides  ADOPTION: Loving Catholic couple  
POLE ON SUNDAY NIGHT,  $175, incl. util., washer/dryer  your own stuffed beaver?!  dreams of sharing life with newborn.  
11/22/92. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE.  WANTED  call277-20651v message  MEN AND WOMEN  Hear us on our taped message. Confidential. Expenses paid. 1-800­ 
$50 REWARD.  FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE  467-8522.  
PAT'S BARBER SHOP  FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!!  SECLUDED 4BR 2 BATH  
273-8440.  Individuals and Student  COUNTRY HOME NEAR CAMPUS.  For more info, call COSIMO'S  Diane Glennon is 21 today I  
Organizations wanted to promote  4 MEN OR 4 WOMEN. $210  277-1875.  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  
I LOST MY RED UMBRELLA  the Hottest Spring Break  MONTH PER PERSON, LEASE,  +  HAPPY  
DURING THE URBAN PLUNGE  Destinations, call the nation's  DEPOSIT. 272-0806  CLOSE-OUT SALE  If she's not ovulating, you might  BIRTHDAY  
MEETING IN THE LIBRARY AUD.  leader. Inter-Campus programs  MUST GO PRICES!!!  actually see her out at the bars  DIANE I!  
LAST SUNDAY.  PLEASE CALL  1-800-327-6013.  SPACIOUS 6 BDRM HOME,NEAR  Catholics Vs. Mormons  tonightI!!  If so, wish Moey a Happy  
AMY AT 4530.  CAMPUS.SECURITY  $5/each or 2 for $8  22nd (even though she'll always be  Diane Glennon is 21 I !  
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT­ SYSTEM.FURN. FALL 1993.272­ (Buy an XXL or XL, let a Large  a cowgirl wanna-be!) Love, Kimi &  
HUGE REWARD!!!! I promise.  Make money teaching English  6306  FREE)  Wid  Charmaine and Michelle  
Do you have my blue, Notre Dame  abroad. Japan and Taiwan. make  Supplies extremely limited I!  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  Your are now true cowgirls.  
back pack-lost Monday Nov. 30 in  $2000-$4000 + per month. Many  Furnished room. $200/Mo  Available at Britton's Card Shop  +  Wait til next semester, Heartland  
North Dining Hall? Call me or bring  provide room & board + other  287-2159 Paul  (Next to Tracks)  here we come.  
in by 617 PE, ASAP. NO questions  benefits! Financially & Culturally  OR Call: 287-6730  Love ya Ann  
asked. Heather X3762.  rewarding! For International  LAFAYETIE SQUARE  
Employment Group: (206)632-1146  still accepting names for  SENIORS  SENIORS  .....MERRY CHRISTMAs•••..  To me,  
FOUND: ONE PAIR OF  ext. J5584.  the '93-'94 school year  AVOID THE CHRISTMAS RUSH  You am the greatest!  
SUNGLASSES IN CASE AT USO  ,  for more info  Pick up Weekly Bulletin at  AND PUT YOUR CLASSIFIEDS IN  From me  
GAME IN STUDENT SECTION. TO  ROOMMATE WANTED:  call 232-8256  THE OBSERVER NOW. WISH  
CLAIM, STOP IN ANTHONY  Looking for female roommate for  Career·& Placement Services  THAT SPECIAL SOMEONE A  To all the members of the men's  
TRAVEL, INC., IN LAFORTUNE.  2nd semester. Castle Point Apt.  MERRY CHRISTMAS BEFORE  basketball team who signed  
Can move. in before break. Call  RAB IT: 1628 Portage for  for invitational interviews for the  DEC. 9, THE OBSERVER'S LAST  autographs after the Loyola game  
HELP!! IF YOU MISTAKINGLY  Deb at 239-7890 or 271-8124  1993-94 yr. 234-3831 or  first two weeks of the Spring  DAY OF PUBLICATION BEFORE  on Friday night:  
TOOK MY BROWN COVERED  273-0482.  semester-turn in resumes through  THE HOLIDAYS.  
WEBSTER'S NEW COLLEGIATE DICTIONARY FROM THE LAFORTUNE MAC LAB ON THE  ROOMMATE WANTED TO SHARE NEW 4 BDRM GRANGER HOME; 1 OR 2 NON-SMOKING FEMALES;  FOR SALE  THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10. WANTED:  ••••*HAPPY NEW YEAR•••••• Hey Pima,  Thanks. You made my little siste's day.  ,.  - 
NIGHT OF TUES., DEC. 1/WED.  FACULTY OR GRAD STUDENTS  One red-haired woman from 308  Get a clue and start writing or you  -Jenny Marten  
DEC 2 BETWEEN 1-3:30 AM,  ONLY; $350/MO + 1/2 UTIL OR  IBM COMPATIBLE SOFTWARE:  Lewis to attend production of "Sex,  know what' II happen!! (Have you  
PLEASE RETURN IT!!  $600/MO + 1/2 UTIL; 277-2253,  $2 EACH.  Drugs, and Rock n' Roll" on Dec.  been good and practicing real  Hey Steph Rausch!  
BELIEVE IT OR NOT, IT HAS  LV MESSAGE.  WANTED: COMPUTERS.  9th in the Labtheatre, and perhaps  hard?) -Who loves ya baby?  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE AS I WAS  1530 WESTERN AVE., SB.  coffee afterwards? ...  I know this is a little early, but with  
AWARDED IT IN JR. HIGH FOR  Need ride to KG area, Iowa or Cent.  287-7550.  STEPHEN JAY GOULD IS  finals I know I will forget.  
ENGLISH. I NEED IT!! PLEASE  Mo. Xmas Brian 1078  Please forgive me.  COMINGI Wednesday, December  
RETURN IT TO THE MAC LAB OR  9th at 8:00 pm in the Hesburgh  HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY!!  
CALL CAIMIEN AT 283-1292. IT  NEED RIDE TO DC AREA ON FRI  CHRISTMAS SWEATSHIRTS for  I don't give up easily.  Library Auditorium. BE THERE!  
HAS MY NAME IN THE FRONT  OF EXAM WEEK. WILL PAY GAS,  saleII! Call to see samples...273­ Peace and Love­ 
COVER!  TOLLS. JOE OR CHRIS 277-5733  2967.  S.S. (S.G.)  50,000,000  Marten  

---------------------------------~ 
The Observer Monday, December 7, 1992 
J 
Monty Williams (3) lunges for a loose ball as two Evansville players look on. 

The Observer/Macy Hueckel The Observer/Scott Mendenhall Monty Williams grabs a rebound during the first half of Saturday's win. Malik Russell played center, point guard, and both forward spots for Notre Dame over the weekend. 

----~-~-----------------------------------------­
Monday, December 7, 1992 The Observer page 15 
Awards, speeches given at banquet
Poll sets up final showdown 

By Rich Kurz the banquet was Irish
(AP) -Alabama's victory over (11-0) received all but one of 
Notre Dame 

Associate Sports Editor 
secondary coach and assitantFlorida in the SEC title game 62 first-place votes -and Football Awards head coach Ron Cooper. 
enabled it to finish No. 2 Sun­1,549 points -in voting by a 
The University of Notre Dame 
Cooper was in Ypsilanti,
day in The Associated Press panel of sport writers and 
held its 73rd annual Football 
Mich., interviewing for the
poll and put it in position to broadcasters. 
Banquet Friday, sponsored by 
vacant head-coaching spot atwin the national title against Alabama (12-0) got the other 
the Notre Dame Club of St. 
Eastern Michigan University.
top-ranked Miami. top vote and 1,473 points in Joseph Valley. 
Cooper is expected to be offered Sugar Bowl-bound Miami the final regular-season poll. 
·.:·.:::··· ..:... 
·.::··· :

Vice-President of University 
the job. 
Florida State (1 0-1), finished 

Relations William Sexton, fa­Lindsey Knapp . ) • . _........_.""''llll'-""111111 third, getting 1,419 points. 
ther of former Irish punter Jim / < •Offensive Lineman of thfif"(~ijr 
Coach Lou Holtz spoke aboutThe Seminoles play No. 11 Ne­
·· · .·.·.· from the Moose Krause ·
Sexton, was the emcee for the 
the season and some of his
lllllla>oo~~-~~~braska in the Orange Bowl. 
Chapter

event, held at the Joyce Athletic 
players, especially the seniors. 
The Cotton Bowl will be a 

•Student Athlete of the Year 
and Convocation Society. The 
"I think this is as fine a foot­
from State Farm and 
----~matchup of No. 4 Texas A&M 

banquet was also an opportu­
ball team as I have ever been
Mutual broadcasting 
(12-0) and No. 5 Notre Dame 

nity for the team to announce 
associated with over the last
-=::;=--=-=-~--~~~--'--'c=:_~r (9-1-1). The Aggies received 
several awards. 
five weeks of the season," Holtz
fnffl Rlldqy
~~__:____.:_____:___________ 1,387 points to 1,295 for the 
1 

Senior tailback Reggie 
•Top${4~~nt Athlete _.._._._·· 
said. "Had we become the bestIrish. 
Brooks, who ranks third in · ·· ·· tram ffie Notre Dame Club 
earlier, we would certainly be
~~--~-'------------! Also unchanged in the poll 
Notre Dame history with 1,343 of $t~ Jd~$pfl Valkty. ·? 
first.
-----"'~----_ _:_:____:_c______, were the next three positions. 
yards this season, was voted the 
"I'm anxious to see this foot­
~~=::..:...:.::~-'-=--------'----INo. 6 Syracuse (9-2) got 1,174 
th~••dbg~rvertAfln,M~~~-·~~

most valuable player by his 
ball team play one more game."
~~~.._....=-----=-----~=-=-=-'--lpoints, No. 7 Michigan (8-0-3) 
teammates. Brooks is still in the Year Award from the Moose He also said he thought the
received 1,141 and No. 8 

contention for the Heisman Krause Chapter of the National Irish offense had "the finest--'-----rGeorgia totaled 1,096. 
Trophy and was nominated for Football Foundation and Hall of backfield in the country" andThe first switch of positions the Doak Walker Award given Fame. Knapp also the Student­"I've never seen a defensive line involved the next two teams. 
to the top running back in the Athlete of the Year Award from 
make as great an improvementcountry. State Farm and the Mutual as this one." 
~~::::-.-::..>'."":.___--=--=-::_____:__:__:__:_lwashington (9-2) moved to No. 
~~~~~~!..'_~~~~~~19 with 1,014 points while Col­Broadcasting System. Holtz saved a great deal of
~~~.:::::.:.==-----___:_'------'-------'----l orado (9-1-1) fell a spot and 
The team also presented the Tim Ruddy, a junior center, praise for senior quarterbackgot 1,000. 
Nick Pietrosante Award for the won the Student-Athlete Award Rick Mirer. 
~~~~=~_____::..;:_.:___--=.:_:_--'---1 Nebraska remained 11th 
fifth year. Named for the former from the Notre Dame Club of St. 
"I think Rick Mirer will go
~~~~==~:____:::__::__:__--=..:..::c_--'-"-lwhile North Carolina State and 
Irish All-American fullback who Joseph Valley. A mechanical down as one of the great quar­
=--,=--------~--=--------14_1 Stanford advanced a spot 
died of cancer in 1988, it is engineering major, Ruddy holds terbacks in Notre Dame history.
each, the Wolfpack to 12th presented to the individual who a 3.81 grade-point average. If I was starting a (pro)

~~~~=__:______.::._:_.:____:_:_::__:_1 and the Cardinal to 13th. They 
best exemplifies Pietrosante's 
franchise, the guy I'd want at~~~=.:::..:::::___ ___::__::__:___:__.:_::_--'-I leaped over Florida, which fell courage, loyalty, dedication, Both Ruddy and Knapp were quarterback is #3. 
~~~.::...:..::.:..:___::_::______:=_______ 1_6 two spots to 14th. 
and pride. named to the GTE District V1 The next four teams -Ohio 
Demetrius DuBose added his Academic All-American team "Here's a young man whoij~~[~~~~~~~~=~~~~=~~~~~~ State, Boston Co IIege, Ten-
name to the list of former win­and are now on the national 
passed up millions of dollars to
I~ nessee and Washington State 
ners of the award, who include ballot. 
come back to Notre Dame be­
~~~_:_:.:__==::.:::.::=------=::__::_..::__ ____-1-remained unchanged. North 
Tony Rice and Chris Zorich. The 
A film of the season's many cause he made a commitment."
l~'!-!-1_is~>iEE!_~J~Q__~~~~ Carolina and Mississippi 
senior linebacker has led Notre highlights was shown and the Holtz finished his commentsflipped spots, with the Tar Dame in tackles the past two monogram winners were an­by relating what former Irish~~~..:...':",.._._.....__ _ ____:____:__.::__ __-=.:...::.._--=-:...1 Heels moving to 19th and the seasons, finishing with 87 this nounced for the season. Seven defensive backs Todd Lyght and
---==.:_-==-1Rebels to 20th. 

season. freshmen, 14 sophomores, 21 Pat Terrell, both now with theThe final five in the poll ­Offensive linemen picked up a juniors and 21 seniors won Los Angeles Rams, told thePenn State, Arizona, Southern 
number of awards. Tackle monograms. Eleven seniors team before the USC game.
---Cal, Mississippi State and 

Lindsay Knapp, a fifth-year se­have monogrammed all four "You'll look back on this as the
~~~~~~~=~====~Brigham Young -held their 
nior enrolled in the MBA years while at Notre Dame. four greatest years of your lifepositions. 
school, received the Lineman of A noticeable absentee from and the most influential." 

Solutions from your Apple Campus Reseller: The holiday gift you can really use. 
Tell your folks that more college 
students choose Macintosh than 
-

any other computer. They'd want you to be in good company. 
Ask for an Apple®Macintosh®computer this holiday season and 
join all of the students who've discovered that no matter what they do Macintosh helps them do it better and faster. That's because M~cintosh is so easy to use. And the thousands of available software applications work in asingle, consistent way. So once you've learned one you're well on your way to learning them all. The advantages of Macintosh don't end when school does. In fact, the majority of Fortune 1000 companies use Macintosh computers~ So ask your Apple Campus Reseller to help you choose which Macintosh to put at the top of your holiday gift list. . , 
Macintosh. It's more than apresent, 1t sa future. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 Math/Computer Bullding 239-7477 
© 1992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo and Madntosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc. MS-DOS is aregistered trademark, and Windows a trademark, ofMicrosoft Corporation. 'Based on asurvey conducted by Computer Intelhgence, 1991. 
page 16 The Observer Monday, December 7, 1992 
~ ~ 

-

•• .~:veport, La., Dec.~ Liberty
11G
-Air Force ~ vs. Mississippi 
____M_e_m_p_his_:_~~~~.::..~~-~:?_1······ 
Gator Florida vs. North Carolina State Jacksonville, Fla., Dec. 31 
Holiday Hawaii vs.lllinois San Diego, Dec. 30 
Freedom 
Southern Cal vs. Fresno State Anaheim, Calif., Dec. 29 John Hancock Arizona vs. Baylor El Paso, Texas, Dec.31 




IBowl Lineup '92-931 
Copper
··~···············T····~ Washi~-:~:~·:t. 
LAS~ vs. Bowling Green &AJ Las Vega~·.r:J~~:.~.~u 
Aloha 
~Kansas 
~ vs. Utah Tuc.~.Cl.n.•.J.\!.i~_:! ..I?.~C.:u?.9. 
~""! Peach f' ~ North Carolina ...J vs. Mississippi State 
__.._ Atlanta, Jan. 2 

Hall of Fame Boston College vs. Tennessee Tampa, Fla., Jan. 1 
Cotton 
fQ 
Texas A&M vs. Notre Dame 
............................... I:)~II~~!.~~~: ..1.!..1 . .P.:.rll.:.. 
Fiesta ~-Syracuse 
~~~~, vs. Colorado .................!~~P..~:.:tl._ri_Z..-·.~~~.:.1 .. 

Rose Michigan vs. Washington Pasadena, Calif., Jan. 
Orange Nebraska vs. Florida State Miami, Jan. 1 
y 
Sugar Alabama 
vs. Miami New Orleans, Jan. 1 
The Observer/Ann-Marie Conrado 
HAVZ YOU
;zzN
THI; 
MAN? 
$1400 for 
Cotton 
continued from page 20 

favorites." 
Although he admitted the choice of the Irish would be controversial, Brock had no second thoughts. 
"We put the coalition together to get No. 1 and No. 2 together, not No. 3 and No. 4," he said. "We have a strong matchup. We wanted to avoid a rematch." 
Florida State beat Texas A&M 10-2 last season. 
Robert Smith, chairman of the Cotton Bowl, answered criticism of the Irish as the choice by saying, "We didn't have a national championship game." 
Florida State coach Bobby Bowden got a tip Friday that the Cotton Bowl had decided to let the Orange Bowl have the Seminoles. 
"I had thought we would be in the Cotton with 3 playing 4, but I was told Friday something might happen," Bowden said. 
"He wasn't sure what was happening, but I could sense it wasn't going to be us in the Cotton Bowl.." 
A&M athletic director John David Crow said there was still a chance the Aggies could win the national title if Miami and Alabama tied. 
"There are a lot of what-ifs and we'd rather play the high­est-ranked team possible, but we support the Cotton Bowl's decision," he said. 
Notre Dame (9-1-1) will lose about $1 million by being in the Cotton Bowl instead of playing Nebraska in the Orange Bowl. 
But Notre Dame athletic direc­tor Dick Rosenthal said the Irish 
! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTake Your Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 
Scholarship eight weeks 
of  your  summer  
devoted  to  service  work  
In  cities  of  Alumni  Clubs  

aII over the co u n try INFORMATION MESTING 
DEC. 8 
6:00 PM 
at the Canter for Social Concerns 
Clerznlak's tight gets booal:xf¥ 
South Bend-James J. Cierz· niak's effort to garner national publicity ~Qf •. his self~des~rjbed "crusade!' agairtsttbe College Football Hail of Fame received a boost Friday from an article in the Wall Street Journal detailing bis remonstrance. 
"It certainly gives us. s<nne additiona).yislbllity, . · V~l.'Y welcome;>r Cier~niak !lot the article. entitled· "Is South Bend Tackling White Elephant?" and written by veteran .Journal reporter Frederick (;, Klein. 
Cie•rzriiil~ e#lier pre the hallwiU become mother ofall white elephants."' 
While the article may have raised some questions about the credibility of officials> of the National F 11 Foundat.i&ri, which () the college hall. such concerns are not shared by those backing the hall. Mayor Joseph E. Kernan said. 

"The quality of the people we've d~altwith .from the beginning has been 
impeccable," he said. "They have integrity and are well­respected, We are very ·comfortable being .pa,rtners with NFF in this project."' 
The NFF has 87 chapters nationally representing 165 universities, the mayor added. 
"They are far from being self·pr()Claimed in any sense," he said.· 
The Journal article questioned the seriousness of some of those past efforts and raised questions about the NFF fund-raising activities. 
Kernan. also agreed Thursday w outline the city's reasons for backing the hall on an upcoming call-in show sponsored by radio station WAMJ. Cierzniak appeared on the program earlier to give his reasons for opposing th~ Hall. 
However, the mayor declined an invitation to appear jointly with Cierzniak on the program. 
This article was originally printed in the South /Jell.d Tri· bune. 
... ~ 
~ 
'\... ~ 
~\::r 
vs. Brigham Young Honolulu , Dec. 25 
Blockbuster Penn State vs. Stanford Ft. Lauderdale , Jan 1 
Independence 
Wake Forest vs. Oregon 

were elated to be playing in the Cotton Bowl. 
Irish coach Lou Holtz likes the challenge. 
"We played A&M a few years ago (1988) in the Cotton Bowl and they beat us decisively (35­10)," he said. "We'll do the best we can with them." 
It will be Notre Dame's sixth Cotton Bowl appearance. The Irish appeared in the game in 1970, breaking a 50-year hiatus from post-season play. They lost to Texas 21-17 in a game for the national title. 
A frustrated Slocum said he might be changing his mind about a national playoff because he won't be getting a shot at Miami or Alabama. 
''I'm not totally against the playoffs now," Slocum said. "We are 12-0 and I voted us number one in the coaches poll. I don't think anybody has demonstrated it's better than TexasA&M." 
It will be the fifth Cotton Bowl for the Aggies since 1986. In that span they've defeated Auburn and Notre Dame, and lost to Ohio State and Florida State. 
The Associated Press con­tributed to this report. 

Do you want to help solve the problem of homelessness? 
Come listen to Jay Todd speak about Habitat for Humanity. 
Monday Dec. 7 at 7:30 p.m. CSC Auditorium 
Wednesday, Jan. 6 7:30 Joyce ACC Center 
Tickets available 'I all ~Outlets, Joyce ACC Box Office, Karma Records, 
Select L.S. Ayres Stores, Nightwinds and Hilltop Department Store 
Charge By Phone: 219-272·7979 
Produced By Sunshine Fromotims 
---------~---------------------~---------­
Monday, December 7, 1992 The Observer page 17 
SPORTS BRIEFS Lineup swaping keys weekend wins 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
ROSEMONT, IL-Wins. Expe­rience. Chemistry. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team are looking for all three. The Irish opened up the regular season with a 52-50 win over Loyola and a starting lineup that was different from any this year. Actually, the starting lineups for three of the first four games this year have been different. 
Freshman Ryan Hoover started at point guard with se­nior Billy Taylor as the shooting 
oey's o ay 

She's a big girl now and can do all kinds of things by herself! 
Love,

Us Photo Courtesy of Sports Information Carl Cozen was in for the Irish... 
The NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
welcomes you to an autograph session with 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh 
TRAVELS WITH 
Tt~ED 
THEODORt ftt HESBURGH 

Join us for a delightful afternoon of reflection 
with Father Theodore M. Hesburgh as he shares 
his many wonderful memories ofhis travels with 
his long time friend and former Executive Vice 
President, Father Edmund P. Joyce. Known 
affectionately to many as "Ted & Ned". 

We are offering a 25% discowu on this book as 
well as all hardbound books during or Christmas 
Special! 

Tuesday, December 8, 2 -4p.m. 
The 



Let The Observer help you send a Christmas wish to your friends. 
A Christmas ad this size costs only $20. 
Visit The Observer, Jrd floor LaFortune , for more details. 
Deadline for our Christmas issue: Today at 1:00 p.m. 

Where Big Mountain Skiing Just Got Bigger! Snowshoe has Expanded to Include the Silver Creek Ski Area Giving You More Runs ... More Fun . . . For Your Money! 
Students . .. Snowshoe's Winter Break Ski Package* gives you deep discounts on Lodging, skiing. group lessons. a "Welcome Aboard" bash along with mcny other 'Perks'! With savings up to 35%, this break is sure to fit your budget. 
January 3 thru 9, 1993 
This Semester Join Us for the East's Most Popular Winter Break! 
noWSHOi: 
.,~,::..:siL"VD!C~D( 
Reservations: (304) 572-5252 • Snow Report: {304) 572-4636 
*Valid Student 10 Required For Package Benefits 
' 

guard, Joe Ross as center and Malik Russell and Monty Williams as forwards. 
"We're searching for a com­bination," said Irish head coach John MacLeod. "We had good flow early and then we started to struggle." 
Hoover got the nod for the point guard slot over Brooks Boyer, who was the projected starter in the preseason, and LaMarr Justice, who started against USA-Verich and the Australian National team. 
"I thought Ryan played well in a starting role. I thought he rushed it a few times," said MacLeod. "Ryan had a very good ball game against Aus­tralia and he played well in practice. I felt he was deserving of it." 
MacLeod continued to exper­iment at the point against the Ramblers with 6' 8" Russell checking in at the position near the end of the second half. MacLeod had said earlier that Russell would not be playing point at all this season, but changed his mind when Justice and Hoover started to struggle and Boyer was having difficul­ties. 
Nine Irish players notched significant playing time in the game and it looks like that trend will continue as the Irish basketball team searches for a winning combination. 
"We're probably going to do 
Photo Courtesy of Sports Information ... and Joe Ross was out, Saturday 
that a lot this year (play nine or 
ten guys a game)," predicted 
MacLeod. "If we can develop a 
rhythm or a chemistry , we will 
stay with it." 
The experimentation contin­
ued in the win over Evansville 
on Sunday with Carl Cozen 
checking in at center after an 
injury to the Aces' regular 
center, Sasha Hupmann , put 
6'7" Andy Elkins in the middle. 
So far, MacLeod's method of 
choosing the starting line-ups 
based on matchups has proven 
successful for the undefeated 
Irish basketball team. 

The ObserverJake Peters Notre Dame's Carey Poor reaches for the ball during Friday 74-41 loss. 
page 18 

Yankees get Jim Abbott from Angels 
(AP) -Jim Abbott, the one­handed pitcher who overcame long odds to become a success­ful major leaguer, was traded from the California Angels to the New York Yankees on Sunday night. 
The 25-year-old left-bander was sought by the Yankees for months, and finally was sent to New York for a package that included infielder J.T. Snow, left­bander Jerry Nielsen and right­hander Russ Springer. 
Abbott was 7-15 with a 2. 77 ERA last season for an Angels 

team that went 72-90. He l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!J
pitched well, throwing seven 
complete games, but the Angels didn't give him very much support, scoring just 2.6 runs per game. 

No-prepares you for the MCAT better U.n KJ!plan. Ow MCAT PNP-teaclws you exiiCtly wtud the t•t covers and the t•t· taking ski.. you'll need to .core wow bNt. We otlerllv• c'-, '-nelltudy not-, and IIUdlo review. Pka, no-.... a-a rnwe extenalve MCAT-lbrary than iKIIplan. 
KAPLAN 
The -••to the t.t qu.tlon. 

The Observer Monday, December 7, 1992 
Women's hoop turns over game to Purdue 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 

When you have as many turnovers as points, you're in trouble. 
Just ask the Notre Dame women's basketball team, a 74­41 loser to No. 17 Purdue in Friday's home-opener. 
Purdue's suffocating defense forced the young Irish team into 41 turnovers, and kept them from mounting a serious offensive threat. 
"This game was an embar­rassment to Notre Dame bas­ketball," said dejected Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw. "There wasn't a lack of effort, but there was definitely a lack of execution." 
Both teams struggled early in the game, but Kay Tucker sparked a Purdue run with five points during a four minute stretch, giving the Boilermakers a 19-6 lead. 
"The defense is always ahead 
of the offense at this point of 
the season," Purdue coach Lin 
Dunn. "Without as much prac­
tice time (the NCAA pushed 
back the start of practice from 
October 15 to November 1) ev­
erybody's out of sync." 

Purdue may have been a little 
out of sync, but Notre Dame 
Finals are coming! Finals are coming! 
Follow the Honor Code! ??'s, call Kami Benson X4704 or Kevin Schroeder X17SO 
.----------------------------------------, 
ALUMNI
Ill SENIOR 
:1: 
1­

CELEBRATE THE LAST NIGHT OF THE SEMESTER 1992 Christmas Specials 
couldn't have been any colder if they had played the game out­side. The Irish hit just 6 of 22 field goals in the first half, and they faced a 30-16 deficit at the break. 
To open the second half, Pur­due's trapping press forced the Irish into five consecutive turnovers, and the Boilermak­ers made the most of it, scoring 10 straight points to open a 24­point lead that the Irish couldn't overcome. 
"We can't simulate that kind of pressure in practice," Mc­Graw said. "But we do work on it, believe it or not. A lot of it is mental. We make a lot of bad decisions with the ball and we're just not good enough to make some of the plays we try 
Newly Remodeled 
Notre Dame Apartments 
Now available for the 2nd semester and '93 ~ '94 school year Call232 ~ 8256 for info and scheduled showings 
to make." 
Purdue made the most of a size advantage under the bas­ket. Purdue's 6-4 center Stacy Lovelace and 6-2 forward Tricia Cullop combined for only 12 points, but they held 6-3 Kristin Knapp and 6-0 Letitia Bowen to just two points apiece. 
"We were really trying to get the ball inside, we had some mismatches in there," Dinn said. "We tried to attack the post and get their forwards in foul trouble." 
Junior guard Sherri Orlosky picked up the offensive slack for the Irish, scoring all of her team high 10 points in the sec­ond-half, but it wasn't enough. 

must be 21 





..,. 

If)Ou're go· to d and drive 
..

atleast let erest ofus know. 
Today
Ill. 

Monday, December 7, 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
-----------------------------------, 

"Hey, Lola. Did you see this thing in the paper?" 
Look "·hat's NEVl at DO~IINO'S 

DOMINO'S !1\25 MILLION NINTENDO 
INSTANf WIN GAME card with every order! 
NEW TWIS1Y BREADTM FREE 
with every doubles order! 
Call Now Valid ar participating stores only. Not valid with any 
271 O,'lQO 

other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. ND " 'J Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20. Our drivers arc not
SMC 289,...()()33 

penalized for late deliveries. © 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Baked Parmesan Chicken 
Breast 
Beef Turnover with Gravy 
Eggplant Parmesan 
Monday 

4:30p.m. Theory seminar, "The Aharonov-Bohm Effect," Murray Peshkin, Argonne National Lab. Room 182, Nieuland Science hall. Sponsored by the Physics Department. 
CAMPUS 
Monday 

9 a.m. to 4 p.m. UNICEF Card Sale. Concourse, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
6:30 p.m. Advent Reconciliation Service, Regina Chapel, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Campus Ministry, Saint Mary's College. 
7 p.m. Reading, "Works in Progress" by members of the Notre Dame Creative Writing Program. Hesburgh Library Faculty Lounge, 1st floor. Call Matt Benedict at 237-1025 with questions. 
7 p.m. Film, "Lady from Shanghai." Annenberg Audi­torium. Admission $2. 9 p.m. Film, "Dead Ringers." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission $2. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

Matt. 26:22 

so Cameroon export &1 Fast planes st City in Fla. 64 Electees 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
t Listen 5 Pindar specialties 
9Taxi 12 A Guthrie t3 Force back t 5 Ice-cream 
holder t& Form of insincerity taRoman goddess personifying the moon t9 Commence­
ment 20 Official records 21 Arthurian lady 22 Adages 24 Floods 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.;:;+.i+.::::+=-Ei 
-:-+~c+=t=t 
2&Road-map abbr. 29 Toodle-oo at Ascot 3t Nashville is its cap. 32Smell-(be suspicious) 34 Fordham's team 36 Mock 39ln a stealthy way 42 Barrie's Pan 43 Paradise 44 Shipbuilder's wood 45 Tear apart 47 Chooses 49 Marie of Jeanne: Abbr. so Dry gulch 
52 Auctioneer's cry 54 Peak 55 F.D.R. dog sa Desert delight 62 Puts a lid on &3 Litigant's 
supporter, often 65 Pub drinks 66 French 
historian-critic: 1823-92 67 Give forth 68 Kind of meal 69 What Simon does 70 What a judge does 
DOWN 
t Angel topper 2 The old sod 3 Swiss sight 4American 
Beauties 5 Boston hockey 
hero 6 Lay waste 7 Heroic a Splinter group sCheck 
attendance to Laurie or Oakley tt Necklace or 
rosary t 4 Part of I.c.d . t5 Neat and 
wholesome 
t7 French state 23 Distort 25 Mexican coin 2&Scrape 27 Faithful 28 Hearing aid of 
yore 30Chemist's 
combiner 33 Like tundras 35 Avoids contact 37 Level 38 Fish trap 





Sports 
page 20 
Monday, December 7, 1992 

·, 
... 
-
JASON 
KELLY 
Match Point 

College football's injustice shines at season's end 
College football has never been 
known for its virtue and the members 
of the Bowl Coalition are making sure 
that never changes. 
The Cotton Bowl gave Notre Dame 
quite a Christmas gift, but they 
shattered the coalition's credibility in 
the process. The fifth-ranked Irish 
were given a January 1 date with No. 4 
Texas A&M, upsetting coalition officials 
who wanted No. 3 Florida State. 
The coalition is designed to create 
the best bowl matchups, based on the 
Associated Press rankings. Despite 
urgings from the coalition and from 
Texas A&M to invite Florida State, the 
Cotton Bowl went for the television 
ratings and invited Notre Dame. 
Florida State has to settle for the 
Orange Bowl against Nebraska, where 
they will make more money, but the 
extra $1.2 million won't make the 
Cornhuskers a worthy opponent. 
One coalition official called it 
"disastrous to our credibility." 
In fact, without the coalition the bowl 
picture would be exactly the same. 
Miami and Alabama would still be 
playing for the national championship 
in the Sugar Bowl and the coalition 
obviously didn't have enough influence 
to persuade the Cotton Bowl's choice. 
Did the coalition do anything to 
improve the bowls or exploit the faults 
of the old system? 
Ask Florida State. 
Reggie Brooks is no stranger to 
college football's injustice. 
Playing in the shadow of Rick Mirer 
and Jerome Bettis, Brooks became the 
first 1,000 yard rusher in the Lou Holtz 
era. 
Even when his rushing stats were 
tess than outstanding, Brooks proved to 
be an invaluable part of the team. His 
bone-jarring touchdown run against 
Michigan and his game winning catch 
against Penn State are the stuff of 
legends. But despite his unequalled 
stats (his eight yards per carry is at 
least one yard more than his closest 
competition) and his unparalleled 
heart, Brooks is not a serious 
contender for post-season awards. 
He was a finalist for the Doak Walker 
Award, given to the best running back 
in the country, but Georgia's Garrison 
Hearst toqk the honors. 
And Brooks wasn't even a finalist for 
the Maxwell Award, which is 
supposedly given to the best college 
player in the country. That one went to 
Miami's overrated quarterback Gino 
Toretta, who has padded his stats 
against weak competition, and faltered 
against the nation's top teams. 
Brooks' slim chances for the Heisman 
Trophy appear even more slim after 
seeing his sub-par competition take 
home the awards that he deserves. 
Do the hyped post-season awards 
really represent the best players in 
college football, or do they represent 
the best media relations departments? 
Ask Reggie Brooks. 
;.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~
INSIDE SPORTS 

IIWomen's hoop tans see page 18 
• Hall of Fame controversy see page 16 

Cotton picks Irish over FSU 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 

Editor's Note: The Observer will contain an eight-page Cotton Bowl supplement on Wednesday. 
The speculation is over, the Irish are going to Dallas to play the undefeated and fourth-ranked Texas A&M Aggies. 
• Annual football banquet held/ page15 
"We're excited to be going (to the Cotton Bowl)," Notre Dame safety/running back Jeff Burris said. "We've been waiting for a long time, and we just wanted to know where we were going. We wanted to play a team that was ranked higher (than us). This gives usachancetomoveupinthepolls." 
Though the Cotton Bowl and the Irish got what they wanted, the same can't be said for the host team from the Southwest Conference. 

Surprise! Men's hoops unbeaten 

By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Associate Sports Editor 

No one is ready to accuse any member of John MacLeod's basketball team of being a star. 
Sure, Ryan Hoover popped for 21 points in his second collegiate game, and Monty Williams has quickly re­established himself as a major problem for opposing defenses. But the modus operandi for the 1992-93 Irish is team play, and that's what the group used to down Evansville 
yesterday afternoon. 

Notre Dame, inspired by tough play by several different players on both ends of the floor, came back from a seven-point halftime deficit and defeated Evansville, 76-70. 
During the second half, offensive contributors appeared from nowhere. Hoover, scored 13 of his 21 points in the half, leading the charge on the Aces, while Williams and Billy Taylor added 17 and 16, respectively. 
Even Brooks Boyer, known more for his vocal leadership than his scoring punch, hit two key shots late. His three-pointer with 8:55 left electrified the new Notre Dame student section, and a slick drive and layup two minutes later let Irish fans forget Elmer Bennett for a moment. 
"I just wanted to come in and contribute," said Boyer, who finished with seven points. "It was really a team effort." 
The team effort was felt on the defensive end, as well. Evansville's Parrish Casebier blistered the Irish for 41 points late last season, but was held to 21 on 5-17 shooting. Carl Cozen and Malik Russell applied the defensive pressure on the Aces' scorer. 
"We just tried to limit the number of shots he got," said MacLeod. "He 
see TEAM/page 13 
"We wanted to play the highest-ranked team possible and I'm disappointed in that regard," Texas A&M coach R.C. Slocum said Sunday. 
He wanted third-ranked Florida State as the Aggies' New Year's Day opponent. 
In the first year of a long term agreement with NBC, the Cotton Bowl disdained a possible 3-4 matchup and chose a team with a strong national following. 
Though Notre Dame's home games are televised exclusively by NBC, Jim Brock, chairman of the Cotton Bowl's selection committee, denied that the network called the shots. 
"Anytime Notre Dame is in a football game you have to take the TV rankings into account, but NBC didn't have anything to do with the selection," he said. "Notre Dame is one of our Pholo Courtesy of Spor181nfonnation 
seeCOTTON/page16 CoachR.CSiocumandtheAggieswillbe Notre Dame's opponent on NewYear's Day. 
By Mike Scrudato 
Sports Editor 
John MacLeod and the Irish men's basketball team are at it again­exceeding expectations. 
Notre Dame opened its season with two wins over the weekend. On Friday, the Irish won ugly over Loyola at the Rosemont Horizon 52-50, and yesterday, came back to upset an impressive Evansville team 76-70, at the Joyce ACC. 
The Irish's season opener, as MacLeod put it, "was not an offensive beauty" The two teams combined for 50 
• Lineup switches key win/ page 17 
turnovers, and neither team could find any rhythm on offense. 
The Irish led for most of the game, but the Ramblers mounted a second-half comeback to take a 47-46 lead on Ahmed Aboui-Foutouh's layup with 5:24 left. Following a turnover by Ryan Hoover, Kerman Ali, who led all scorers with 21 points, sunk two free throws to give Loyola its largest edge, 49-46, with 
4:36 remaining. 
The Irish cut the lead to one, when Malik Russell fed Monty Williams for a layup, and then took a 50-49 lead on Billy Taylor's two foul shots with 3:13 left. The Ramblers tied it on their ensuing possession when Ali connected on one of two from the charity stripe. 
Neither team scored on its next three trips down the floor, but Brooks Boyer broke the scoring drought by sinking one of two foul shots with 1:20 remaining. Williams, who Jed the Irish with 19 points and nine rebounds, pulled down the rebound of Boyer's miss to give the Irish a chance to seal the win. Russell 
see WINS/page 13 
* 
"' 

~· ~ 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 

Ryan Hoover played a vital role in Saturday's win. 
.... ~.---····~ 








