


1&41·1992 
SESQUICENHNNIAL 
eObserver 


VOL. XXIV NO. 101 MONDAV, FEBRUARV 24, 1992 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Samt Marys Colleg~ 
NOTRE OAME•INOJANA 


Back to childhood TheObaerverll<rislina Roderick 
Father Tom McDermott reads "ABC" during an afternoon of Dr. 
Seuss at Theodore's Saturday. The event was sponsored by 
Flanner and proceeds went to the South Bard Homeless Center. 
The Observer/Sean Farnan 

Olympic hopeful 
Dawn Sandgren, of Saint Mary's, enjoys a free skate at the JACC Ibis weekend, inspired by the recent performances in Albertville. Many skaters of varying ages and abilities had fun at the various sessions. 
By PETER LOFTUS Assistant News Editor 
Despite having to contend with complex issues and logis­tics. the Notre Dame Task Force on Cultural Diversity has issued an interim report that contained some recommenda­tions, and the task force will soon begin writing its final re­port, to be released in May, ac­cording to the task force's co­chairmen. 
"Given the complexities in­volved, we've made some progress," said co-chairman 
NO grad helps Chicago gang members 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT News Writer 
Although he said he has been shot at almost 30 times, Notre Dame alumnus Brother Bill Tomes has been fulfilling what he called his God-given duty by working with gang members in Chicago housing projects. 
A discussion with Tomes and five Chicago gang members was held at the Center for Social Concerns on Saturday after­noon 
Tomes works out of Saint Malachi's Parish for the mission of the Brothers and Sisters of Love. He conducts a reach-out ministry with gang members living in dangerous neigh­borhoods on the west side of the city, such as the Cabrini­Green housing project. 
According to Tomes, he started his ministry nine years 
• Reaction to task force I pg. 3 
Roland Smith, ND executive as­sistant to the president. 

ND President Father Edward Malloy formed the task force last academic year, in response to the demands made by Students United for Respect (SUFR), a minority student coalition. The task force was charged with examining NO's cultural diversity and formulat­ing recommendations to im­prove it. 
Co-chairman Father Richard Warner, who is also director of 
ago because he had a calling from God. "Our Lord spoke to me from a picture," he said, "and told me, 'Love. You are forbidden to do anything be­sides that."' 
Tomes and his associate dressed in denim patchwork robes and spend their time talking and ministering to gang members. They encounter much crime and violence in their ministry because they in­volve themselves directly with the gang members. 
Although he has been shot at twenty-eight times during his nine-year ministry, Tomes said he will not leave the housing projects. He said that it is "primarily Jesus who does the work. We were told by him not to be afraid." 
The gang members spoke highly of Tomes. They said that initially, they thought he was a police officer because he stayed around during shootings and placed himself in the midst of the conflicts. 

"He waves at everyone in the projects," one member said. "We can't fight while he's around, so we talk to him." Another member, who has been shot at five times, added that, "I made it through that and de­cided to change. I thank God for Brother Bill for keeping me alive." 
One way that Tomes keeps them alive is by helping the gang members find jobs. All five of the men at the discussion presently have jobs. 
The members added, how­ever, that they had to leave their neighborhoods to get work since there are no job op­portunities in Cabrini Green. Instead, the neighborhoods are plagued by drug dealers, ac­cording to one member. 
see GANGS/ page 6 

ND Campus Ministry, did ex­press concern about "meeting the May deadline without feel­ing terribly rushed." 
The final report will not only contain recommendations, but it will also attempt to present itself as a blueprint for a con­crete plan to enrich cultural di­versity at NO, according to the co-chairmen. 
Of the three committees that compose the task force, only the Committee to Review the 1987 Provost's Report on Minority Students (the Hatch Report) made recommendations in the 
Police talk to junior about hit-and-run 
NO student is not yet charged 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
St. Joseph County Police are interviewing the Notre Dame junior who has admitted in­volvement in the Feb. 16 hit­and-run accident that injured two Saint Mary's College stu­dents. 
The driver has yet to be charged and Sgt. Charlie Fier­rell said police are not likely to release his name until formal charges are filed. 
The student and his attorney approached the police Thurs­day with a statement regarding the accident. The driver's at­torney is negotiating with St. Joseph County Prosecutor Michael Barnes to determine appropriate charges. 
"He said he decided to come forward after reading and hearing about this incident in the media," Fierrell said. "He has been very cooperative with investigators." 
Saint Mary's sophomores Elizabeth Joyce and Cara Mc­Court were injured in the acci­dent. 
McCourt received a broken lumbar spine and contused kid­ney. She was released from St. Joseph Medical Center after ex­amination, and stayed at Saint Mary's infirmary until being re-
interim report, which was released Jan. 28. The seven recommendations suggested that the University needed to implement a bolder plan than the Hatch Report. 
The 1987 Hatch Report was Malloy's initial effort to tackle the issue of cultural diversity. The University has largely ful­filled that report's goals, but many see those goals as mod­est. 
The Committee to Review the Hatch Report made seven rec-
see DIVERSITY I page 6 
..·
))(·;~·;,\ 
leased Tuesday. 
Joyce was hospitalized last 
week with a broken neck and 
skull fractures. She has since 
been discharged and is at home 
in Illinois. 
The victims and their families 
have consulted with Fierrell 
about the investigation. "They 
are concerned that the right 
and fair thing is done," he said. 
see ACCIDENT I page 6 
Grand jury to meet on bus crash 
By ANDREW RUNKLE News Writer 
A grand jury will convene in 
late March to hear arguments 
on the Jan. 24 bus accident in­
volving the Notre Dame 
women's swim team, according 
to Michael Barnes, prosecuting 
attorney for St. Joseph County. 
This grand jury action does 
not imply any wrongdoing in 
the accident. "No inferences of 
criminal culpability should be 
drawn from this decision," he 
stated. 
"The fact is that in these type 
of cases, this decision is not 
unusual or extraordinary," 
Barnes said. 
The investigation into the case is not complete, but ac­cording to Barnes, enough in­formation has been received to determine that the case should be presented to the St. Joseph County grand jury. 
The Indiana State Police has assisted the prosecutor's office with the investigation of the ac­cident in which a United Limo bus overturned on the Indiana State Toll Road, claiming the lives of freshmen swimmers Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp and injuring 32 other pas­sengers. 
'"' 


~-----.------------------------~--------------------------------­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Stallings' church divisive to Black Catholics 
In 1989, Bishop George Stallings, Jr., a Roman Catholic priest, renounced his union with the bishop of the Archdiocese of Washington, D.C.. and the 


Pope, citing the Church's David Kinney racist leanings. Stallings, Associate who had previously been News Editor suspended for forming the ------­independent lmani Temple African American Catholic Congregation, was automatically excommunicated from the Church. 
"The issue is the failure of a European American, white, male hierarchy to be cul­turally sensitive to the needs of minorities." he said. 
Stallings, like many of his colleagues in the Church, noted the need for more blacks needed in key decision-making roles and the fact that blacks can and do feel isolated in the Catholic Church. He recognized the fact that the kind of racism that still exists in American society is naturally reflected in any organization, perhaps more so in a ancient, hierarchical institution like the Church. 
However, he failed to recognize the long­term implications that a break with the Church could have on blacks. He failed to understand that true, long-term change for blacks can only occur by working within the Church. 
Others blacks in the Catholic Church were wary to support the new church. "Rather than love, joy and peace," said one man, "I hear a lot of scorn that has nothing to do with African American values." 
Another noted that "this has nothing to do with race. [Stallings] has an inordinate desire to be in power." 
The hope of many Black Catholics to battle racism within the Church is not a far-fetched desire. In fact, the Church openly admits the tension between Catholic blacks and whites. 
However, it argues that the number of blacks in the Church increased dramatically in the 1980s, and it encourages the use of gospel music and black symbols in the Mass. More concretely, it has attempted to reach out to the over two million Black Catholics by increasing and promoting the number of black priests. 
A number of institutions in the Church also work toward this end, including the National Office for Black Catholics, established in 1970. Stallings, had he remained in the Catholic Church could have utilized the organizations to pursue his goals. 
History will prove that Stallings has failed in his attempt to help blacks, in particular Black Catholics. If he seeks a church in which he can personally fill the role of pope, then the AACC can last only a lifetime. If the church continues to grow, his church will be divisive, rather than unifying, for blacks. 
In the words of Father William Kane, "let us pray that Father Stallings will end his separation and return to the full unity of the Church." 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff  
Production Lisa Bourdon Cheryl Moser  News Peter Loftus Alicia Reale  
Sports Jennifer Marten  Graphics Beth Duane  
Systems Paul Froning  Lab Tech. Garr Schwartz  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

50 percent chance 

Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. of rain. Highs will be in the middle 40s. Cloudy Tuesday with a chance of flureies. Highs will be near 40. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City H L Albuquerque 56 39 Atlanta 74 51 Austin 73 47 Baton Rouge 76 50 Bismarck 29 20 Boise 51 25 Boston 48 39 Columbla.s.c. 68 51 Columbus 58 35 Denver 47 21 Des Moines 44 33 Harrisburg 40 36 Helena 47 27 Honolulu 83 66 Indianapolis 61 40 Jackson 77 52 Juneau 40 33 Lincoln 44 34 Madison 35 32 Mpls-St. Paul 36 31 Nashville 59 50 Sacramento 66 48 Salt Lake City 47 36 

PrBSSura Tallahassee 66 58 Topeka 45 38 South Bend 47 33 VIenna 34 26 
H L 

a 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIa Associated Press 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

15.000 ral~ in Yugoslavia 
NATIONAL 
Japanese businesses plan PR project
•LOS ANGELES-An association of 700 Japanese businesses plans a public relations campaign to counter what it calls growing anti-Japanese sentiment among American consumers and its own U.S. employees. The Japan Business Association of Southern California already has collected $1.5 million for the project. The group plans a video that points out contributions Japanese-owned companies make to U.S. communities, such as jobs and charitable activities. Japanese companies plan to show the video to employees. They'll also give it to schools and community groups that request it. In addition, it will be shown to officials in Tokyo to stress the "positive experiences" of Japanese companies in the United States, said Takashi Kiuchi, the association's president. 
OF INTEREST 
sNotre Dame Porn Pon will have an informational meeting today in the Montgomery Theater in LaFortune at 7 p.m. for anyone interested in trying out for the Notre Dame Porn Pon squad. 
•Advance enrollment for all undergraduate students must be completed by Wednesday. If you have not re­turned your enrollment slip and the $100 deposit, stop at the Student Accounts Office today. Failure to advance en-
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ February 21 

NYSEINDEX
VOLUME IN SHARES 
...m.. 
317,295,570 227.46 v 1.14 %HP"Dl~/~_.....__s&~P COMPOSITE 411.46 ... 2.44 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,280.19 ... 0.45 
PRECIOUS METALS 

GOLD {7 $ .30 to $353.40/oz. 
SILVER .. 10¢ to $4.052/oz. 
Washington. D.C. 80 42 

roll will prevent you from hewing able to DART for the fall semester 1992, and will make you ineligible for room picks. 
I The video, "The Future of a Liberal Arts Degree in .the Job Market," will be shown at 7:30 p.m. tonight in the Keenan Hall television lounge. A discussion led by Profes­sor Jim Bellis of the anthropology department will follow. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•'~ 1868: The U.S. House of Representatives impeached Prestdent Andrew Johnson following his attempted dismissal of Secretary of War Edwin Stanton. Johnson was later acquitted by the Senate . 
• ln1803: In its "Marbury versus Madison" decision, the 
U.S. Supreme Court ruled that it was the final interpreter of constitutional issues. 
• 
ln_1920_: A fledgling_Germ~n political party held its first meetmg of tmportance, tn Muntch. The organization became known as the Nazi Party, and its chief spokesman was Adolf Hitler. aln 1942: The Voice of America went on the air for the first time. 

• 
In 19~3: A c_ongressional commission released a report condemnmg the mternment of Japanese-Americans and Japanese resident aliens in the U.S. during World War II calling it a "grave injustice." ' 


CAMPUS 

•NOTRE DAME-The committee running Christmas in April has changed the volunteer registration method for this year's event, according to Phil Johnson, director. Students will only be able to sign up this Thesday through Thursday from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 4 to 8 p.m. Johnson said that the number of students allowed to participate will be limited to 1, 000 on a first-come, first-served basis, because of the limited scope of work that needs to be done. The committee's resources will allow it to renovate only 54 homes and two churches, he said. "It's a shame that we can't provide more." 
Parkin~ lot is to be closed 
•NOTR 
DAME-The parking lot entrance to the COl Lot at Old Juniper Road northwest of the Alumni-Senior Club will be closed to all traffic beginning Tuesday. During the last 12 months six property accidents resulting in significant damage have been reportedin the lot. "It is our hope that eliminating the through traffic will reduce accidents in the lot and improve pedestrian safety," said Phillip Johnson, assistant director of Security/Police. 

•N 
TRE DAME-Holy Cross College has received a two­year, $75,000 grant from Lilly Endowment Inc. to assist in automating their library to become part of the State University Library Automation Network (SULAN). Holy Cross will join SULAN through the University of Notre Dame, a SULAN member institution. With the help of the funds, the college is preparing its data base to load onto Notre Dame's on-line catalog (UNLOC), which is part of SULAN. Affiliation with the SULAN network will allow Holy Cross students to access the collections of other libraries in the state. 


The Observer page 3 
Monday, February 24, 1992 
Pro-communist·protestors battle Moscow police, leaving 30 injured 
MOSCOW (AP) -In the most tors' faces were bloodied by 
violent unrest in Moscow since police with truncheons. One the Soviet Union's demise, protester tried to jab a hel­thousands of pro-communist meted policeman in the head demonstrators rallied Sunday, with a flag pole, and another clashing with police and angrily policeman was seen with blood pelting them with near-worth­streaming down his face. less kopeck coins. At least 30 At one point, angry demon­people were reported injured. strators pelted police with 
"Down with the Russian gov­thousands of nearly worthless ernment!" shouted some kopeck coins to protest hard­protesters. Waving red Soviet ship they blamed on Russian flags, they tried to break leader Boris Yeltsin's economic through police lines to march reforms. Children scurried to toward the Kremlin in defiance pick up the coins under the feet 
of a ban on such gatherings in of police. the city center. "Yeltsin is destroying Russia!" Several policemen were read one sign held by a elderly knocked down and demonstra-woman. 
Car accident injures three Notre Dame students 
By ANDREW RUNKLE leased from the infirmary today. males were in the car driven by DuBay. Flanner freshman
News Writer The two other students in­Mark Bowman and Cavanaugh jured, Susan Hund and Amy freshmen, John Bingham and
Three Notre Dame students were treated and released from Schwartz, also Breen-Phillips Josh Gaul were not injured in St. Joseph's Memorial Hospital freshmen, suffered slight con­the crash. after suffering injuries in a two­cussions. They were both re­
car collision Saturday night. leased from the hospital Satur­The two women in the other day night. vehicle were transported from the scene by ambulance. 
Karen DuBay, a Breen­Phillips freshman, was held in At approximately 8:45 p.m., 
the Notre Dame infirmary for the collision occurred at the in­The students were on their tersection of Edison and Ivy way to the Breen-Phillips for­
observation overnight after 
roads. mal on-campus at the Knightssuffering a concussion during of Columbus when the accident
the accident. DuBay is recover­ing and will probably be re-Three other Notre Dame occurred. 
Club Column 
FIBRUARY 24, 1992 

l)The Club Coordination Council would like to remind all presidents of graduate and undergraduate clubs to check their mailboxes on the second 
Aoor of LaFortune. 
2) The Last Day to access club funds is April 10,1992. 
3) Attention All Clubs: Club registration packets for the 1992-93 academic year are available in 206 LaFortune on Feb. 17, 18, 19. Clubs must register with the CCC in order to be recognized by the University each year. Registration packets are due Mar. 4. No late packets will be accepted. 
4) The Black Cultural Arts Council holds office hours on : Mondays and Wednesdays, 2:15-4:30, Tuesdays and Thursdays 2-4, Fridays, varied afternoon hours. The office is located at 217 LaFortune, the telephone number is 239-8684. 
S)Women United for Justice and Peace will hold meeting Tues., Feb. 25 at 
5:45 p.m. at the CSC. All are invited. 
6) Amnesty International Group #43 will be meeting Sun., Mar. 1 at 8:30 
p.m. in the Montgomery Theater in LaFortune. 
7) Black Cultural Arts Festival is sponsoring its Fifth Annual Fashion Show Feb. 29 at 7 p.m. in the Monogram Room. Tickets are $6 for students advance, $8 for non-students in advance and $1 0 for everyone at the door. Party following immediately in Theodore's. $2 admission w/o fashion show ticket stub. 
Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by Apm Thursday each week. All entries appear in the following Monday's edition of The Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office in 206 LaFortune. 
Cavanaugh Hall Players Presents: 
JB([J)JD)Y 
LOVES AN 

A CrtJtn~~mpfJrraiuy CfJm~dJ! IBJ! fR(QJtnaiUd AU!fJ:traitndlfJrr 
Washington Hall February 27, 28, 29 8:10P.M. 
Produced in cooperation with Dramatists Play Service, Inc. 
ADMISSION IS FREE! 
DONATIONS REQUESTED 
Students and officials discuss diversity task force's progress 
By JULIE BARRETT 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Task Force on Cultural -Diversity has re­ceived mixed reactions from students, faculty and adminis­tration regarding cultural di­versity at Notre Dame, accord­ing to Mari Ishibashi, a mem­ber of the task force and a Notre Dame graduate student. 
"Sometimes I get really dis­couraged by the small number of students at the task force meetings at some of the dorms,"Ishibashi said. "Other times I'm impressed by the turnout of not only minority students, but other students and their enthusiastic partici­pation at the meetings." 
The task force has been con­
ducting interviews and hall 
meetings with students, faculty 
and administration to receive 
their input about the issue of 
cultural diversity on campus. 
"Progress has been slow and very labor-intensive," said Roland Smith, ND executive as­sistant to the President and co-chair of the task force. "The different groups in the task force have been doing a lot of listening and gathering of in­formation at the residence hall meetings and interviews, but some things will take time to work through." 
Although response from some administrative units has been slow and turnouts at residence halls have been modest, the task force remains optimistic that their efforts are "creating a momentum throughout the system" to increase its aware­ness and concern about creat­ing a more culturally diverse campus, according to Father Tom McDermott, dire.ctor of special projects for ND campus ministry and a member of the task force. 
"Even though we only had about fifteen people show up for the meeting, it was still a good turnout for a small dorm like Howard," said Howard co­president Shannon Windsor. "We had a really good discus­sion; the (representative) from the task force only mediated it, 
and then the discussion went off by itself." 
Several reasons may account for the relatively small turnouts of students at the task force's hall meetings, according to Ishibashi: The meetings were scheduled at busy times during the week, the meetings weren't publicized well enough, or stu­dents simply aren"t aware of the growing concern for cul­tural diversity at Notre Dame. 
"A problem is that students don't make themselves aware of what's going on," said Mike Allen, a Pangborn senior and member of the task force. 
Allen asserts that the Uni­versity has taken steps that students haven't to promote cultural diversity on campus. For example, Core course has incorporated multicultural studies into its curriculum, the financial aid office has in­creased aid expressly for mi­nority students and the Univer­sity sponsored the "Year of Cultural Diversity." 
Nevertheless, more research and development needs to be done on all levels of the Univer­sity in order to increase cultural diversity and aw1lreness on campus, McDermott said. 
Although it is too soon to 
make evaluations and recom­
mendations based on the data 
they have received thus far, the task force is planning to submit its final report to University President Father Edward Mal­loy by the end of the semester. 
Mary Murphy contributed to this story. 

....81111.91 
~~ $99/perperoon
5 nights Deluxe Fl Brown Reeort · ~~~~~~~!l!•.]_<L Y".~~ 1<:! -~~~ip? ~oorn$179,.._ 
6 days/5 nights 
Sand Dollar Condominiums 
Full kitchens, walk to beach, free beach parties( 
Departures from Chicago 
7 nights 
t""$459/per~
quad occupancy 
Downtown Hotel Near bars & restaurants 
...::$"4"99,::;~::~ .... 
6 person occupancy 
Hacienda Del Mar 4*Condominiums beachfront condos 
Phot> ~rl SPICVB 
HURRY! SPACE IS LIMITED! 

(Some packages will sell-out immediately) 
For reservations and information call: 
Indiana Travel Services 654-3356 
The Observer 

page 4 Monday, February 24, 1992 
Brown, Tsongas duel in Maine 
Tsongas' front-runner status rendered uncertain 
POHTLAND, Maine (AP) ­Paul Tsongas and upstart Jerry Brown battled to a virtual dead heat in Maine's caucuses on Sunday in an improbably dose eontest that reflected the wide­opnn raen for the Democratic presidnntial nomination. 
First one, then the other, held thn lead during a long count ­but nnvnr by much. With 645 of 665 pn~cinets reporting and the tally halted, Tsongas had 29.5 pnrcent support and Brown had 
29.3 perennt. 
An uncommitted slate of dnl­ngatns had 16 percent, Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton had 15 percent, and the rest of the field followed. 
Predictably, Brown and Tsongas nach claimed sueeess. Thn former California governor. who refuses contributions larger than $100, claimnd his 
showing  proved  that  
"grassroots citizens ean  take  
back this country."  

Tsongas was the favorite in advancn by virtun of his victory in last week's New Hampshire primary. Sunday's results gave him less to boast about. 
He brushed aside a sugges­tion that the Maine results were a sign of a fragile candidacy, saying, "My fight is with Bill Clinton at this point." Brown had finished last in New Hamp­shire. 
Maine voted as the campaign moved on relentlessly. All five of the Democratic contenders ­
plus candidate Larry Agran ­
participated in a evening debate 
in South Dakota that generated 
sparks two days befor" the 
state's primary. That balloting 
shapes up as a struggle for 
survival for Nebraska Sen. Bob 
Kerrey and Iowa Sen. Tom 
Harkin. 

After that, the race explodes with 24 primaries and caucuses over two weeks that will award 1,287 delegates of the total 4,287 delegates at the Demo­cratic National Convention. 
In all, Sunday was a second remarkable night for the nomi­nating fight in less than a week. Tsongas' victory in New Hamp­shire had been unthinkable until less than a month before the voting, when Clinton was hit with allegations of womanizing and Vietnam-era draft-dodging that he strenuously denied. · 
Whatever the final outcome in Maine, the results were a blow to Tsongas, a former Mas­sachusetts senator struggling to maintain the momentum he gained with his New Hampshire victory. 
His campaign worked to the end in search of an elusive vic­tory, as his wife Niki attended a caucus in Gorham, a town of 12,000 outside Portland. "Every vote counts," she said after he topped Brown at the caucus she attended. 
It was the first time in 20 years that the winner of the New Hampshire Democratic 
primary didn't follow up with a 
clear-cut victory in Maine. 

The results were also an em­
barrassment for Clinton, who 
was credited with a solid orga­
nization and finished a strong 
second to Tsongas in New 
Hampshire. 

Brown was the big winner. He finished last among the five major contenders in. New Hampshire and has been derided as a gadfly making a hopeless quest for the nomina­tion. 
Kerrey, running last, said the "larger story is Brown doing extremely well. ... That's a pretty fragile mandate coming out of New Hampshire" for Tsongas. 
"It's certainly an upset," Brown said. "It has to be a shock to the pundits in Wash­ington, who early on believed that only $1,000 checks and obscene campaign war chests could propel a candidacy." 
"The people of Maine proved them wrong and demonstrated that grassroots citizens can take back this country." 
Tsongas, struggling to nurture his momentum, congratulated Brown on "a very aggressive effort" in the state. "Caucuses are not my strong point," he said. 
One Brown supporter, Geral­dine Tukey, said, "He's kicking butt.... This is not surprising." 
She was right about the first; not about the second. 
Democrats debate inS. Dakota 
SIOUX FALLS, S.D. (AP) ­Democratic presidential hope­fuls preached the virtue of the family farm and sparred over taxes and health care Sunday in a curtain-call debate for a South Dakota primary that could winnow a candidate from the field. 
New Hampshire winner Paul Tsongas drew early fire from the two Midwestern senators who need good showings in South Dakota, Tom Harkin of Iowa and Bob Kerrey of Ne­braska. 
Harkin hit Tsongas for favor­ing a gas tax increase; Kerrey said Tsongas' votes in the Sen­ate proved he was no friend of farmers. 
Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton, the New Hampshire runner-up, accused Kerrey and Harkin of distorting his record on agri­culture during the South Dakota campaign, reminding them: "I've been a farm state governor for 11 years. I've al­
ways supported the family farm." 
Tsongas conceded from the outset that he could not match the agriculture expertise of his farm-state rivals. But he said: "I know how to listen. I know how to learn." He also reminded voters that his father-in-law was from South Dakota and that his wife and three daughters "have South Dakota blood." 
Former California Gov. Jerry Brown said he "wouldn't give a penny in foreign aid" unless American farmers and small businesses were getting all the help they need. 
The focus on agriculture and Indian aft'airs was a big switch from debates in advance of New Hampshire's leadoff primary that were dominated by discussion of the economy. An­other new twist was the pres­ence of long-shot candidate Larry Agran in the debate. Agran, the former mayor of Irvine, Calif., has been excluded from past forums. 
The candidates were debating as Maine Democrats held cau­cuses in which Tsongas and former Brown battled through­out the day for the lead. Clinton was vying with uncommitted delegates for third place. 
South Dakota's primary on Tuesday is the next event, with 15 delegates at stake. It is a critical survival test for Kerrey and Harkin, who finished a dis­tant third and fourth in New Hampshire. For Tsongas and Clinton, South Dakota offers a chance to fare well far from home. 
The winner will get a boost heading into March 3 primaries in Colorado, Maryland, Georgia and other states. 
Agran wasted no time stirring it up, accusing Brown of hypocrisy for railing against monied politics as a presidential candidate after raising millions in campaign contributions as governor and state party chairman. 
Quayle aims at Democrats' qualifications ~ 
WASHINGTON lAP) -Vice President Dan Quayle ques­tioned the qualifications of the leading Democratic presidential candidates Sunday, asking, "How many leaders around the world have they met?" 
Quayle, on NBC's "Meet the Press," also swiped at President Bush's Republican challenger, Patrick Buchanan, calling him an isolationist with a "troubling" attitude about Is­rael. 
Buchanan, meanwhile, said he had already "punched a hole" in President Bush's campaign blimp by snaring 37 percent of the votes in the New llampshire primary. 
"If we punch a second hole in it in Georgia, the whole thing may go up, and I will have a fighting chance for the nomina­tion," Buehanan said on ABC's "This Week with David Brink­ley." 
Buchanan said he would have to reassess his candidacy if he draws only 15 percent in future primaries instead of 30 percent to 40 percent. But he predicted Georgia's March 3 primary "may be the New Hampshire of the South." 
Buchanan, campaigning later Sunday in Naples, Fla., repudi­ated the partial endorsement he received in some primary states from former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke, and he said he plans to ignore Duke. 
"I haven't sought that gentleman's endorsement nor worked for it in any way," Buchanan told reporters. 
Duke, kept otT the GOP baliltt in Georgia and Florida, has suggested his supporters there cast their votes for Buchanan. 
Quayle denied that the Bush administration has tacked to the right to fend off the chal­lenge from Buchanan. Quayle said the resignation of National Endowment for the Arts Chairman John Frohnmayer did not have "anything to do with Pat Buchanan." 
Bush also has shelved an In­ternal Revenue Service regula­tion that would have forced churches to identify contribu­tors of $500 or more. The pro­posal, in Bush's fiscal 1993 budget, drew protests from government-wary evangelicals. 
Quayle called it "a nonsense regulation. I don't even know how it got in there in the first place." 
The vice president said it looked like former Mas­sachusetts Sen. Paul Tsongas or Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton will be the Democratic presidential nominee. 
"Are they qualified to be president of the United States? I mean, how many leaders around the world have they met?" asked Quayle. 

The Observermean Farnan

Let the music play 
Morrissey juniors Mike Montroy (back) and Matt Berger work at WVFI this weekend. The station remains on A.M. due to an inability to get F.M. frequency 
in association with 

niversity of Notre Dame Center for Social Co n.cerns 
Attention Student Volunteers! 
Submit Your Applications for the GM Volunteer Spirit Award! 
lleadline for applications is: 

Friday, March 6, 1992 
Applicationsavailable at: · 
Center for Social Concerns 
(219) 239-5293 

CHEVROLET· PONTIAC· OLOSMOBILE BUICK·-CAOILLAC·GMC TRUCK 
---------------------·---------------------~------~--------~--------------~~~--~------------------------~-------------------------­
The Observer 
page 5 

Lombardo made CCE director 
By MAURA HOGAN • News Writer 

Peter Lombardo, recently appointed Director· of the Cen­ter for Continuing Education (CCE), brings with him an im­pressive history of service to the Notre Dame community. 
The former associate director is a 1964 graduate of Holy Cross College in Massachusetts and holds a master's degree in history from Fordham Univer­sity, as well as a doctoral de­gree in history from Notre Dame. 
In addition to fulfilling his responsibilities at the CCE, Lombardo has taught courses in history and literature and served on the Faculty Senate. 

Peter Lombardo 
He also participates in the Hall Fellows program of Siegfried Hall. 
Lombardo received the ap­pointment after a search committee reviewed more than 200 applications and inter­viewed a dozen candidates. 
"Our prime thrust is to en­courage faculty members that we are here to serve them," he said. 
To faculty members, he "encourage[s] them to come to us with meetings of academic societies. We do everything people need to organize a con­ference: registration, promo­tion, accounting, housing and catering (through the Morris Inn), provide meeting space, food, programs, etc." 

If, in the past, faculty mem­bers have not taken advantage · of the services the CCE offers, Lombardo postulates, "perhaps they don't know of it, or think it's too much work. If that's the case, we're not doing our job." 
Sister discusses problems Blacks face in the Catholic Church today 
By ANGELA HELLWIG News Writer 

The majority of the problems African Americans encounter in the Catholic Church today stem from the prevailing social order, said Sister M. Shawn Copeland of Yale University Divinity School in a lecture Saturday. 
According to Copeland, con­temporary society· is scarred "by self-preservative morality, by gross and massive poverty, by indifferent and xenophobic reactions to the human other, by anti-semitism and by racism." 
"Black Catholics are con­cerned mainly about things that everyone's concerned about­crime, drugs, and AIDS," she said. Blacks in the Church are trying to learn how to deal with these problems and how to en­courage the Church to support them and enhance their self­image, according to Copeland. 
She emphasized that "we must all take social responsibil­ity." 
Copeland presented seven goals that all Catholics should work towards in the future to alleviate the African Americans' situation: 
•Catholics 
should take re­sponsibility for the Church. Ac­cording to Copeland, "we need to remind ourselves that we all are the Church." In addition, the Catholic Church should work toward the ordination of more African American priests and bishops. 

• 
Catholics should strive for a better understanding of the Church. 

• 
Catholics should work to­ward establishing a Church that is truly a community of lay people. We must remember that all members are capable of re­


ceiving word and spirit, she said. 
•African 
American Catholics should not be afraid of internal critique of their movement, Copeland said. They must con­tinually scrutinize, analyze and re-evaluate plans. 

• 
Catholics should work to­ward a non-sexist understand­ing of the Church. Copeland said one of obstacles faced by African American Catholics is "the sexism that plagues the religions of African men and women." 

•Catholics 
must take respon­sibility for the social order in which we live. 

•The 
Church should establish an African American theology. This theology should be "rooted in black experience, and must extend mind and heart and hand to all black people," according to Copeland 




~ 
• 
11.7' i~ 
~t....J ... ._ 
DISMAS HOUSE 

-~~:-_.~;._..­
A community of support, reconciliati~n and adjustment, Dismas House offers a unique opportunity for Saint Mary's and 
Notre Dame students to share in a life-training experience 
with former prisoners. Together an environment of trust. 
friendship and hope can be built to provide the confidence and 
courage necessary for each to enter society as a valuable and 
integral member 
1 Name____________________________________________ 
I Address__________________________________ Are you interested in living in the Dismas 
I City______________State____Zip____________ community next semester? 
I Phone L_)_________Collcgc/University______~-----------­
1 Summer 0 Fall 0 Spring 0 19_ Applications available at the Center forI Internship Programs Language Programs Summer Programs 
Social Concerns. See: Kathy Royer --239­
1 0 London 0 Grenoble 0 Greece 0 Sydney 
7862, or call Br. Bonaventure Scully -­
0 Paris 0 Haifa 0 London 0 USSRI 0 Sydn.ey 0 Madrid 0 Madrid 239-7353, or call Dismas House --233­0 Washington
I 0 Washington 0 Niamey 0 Monaco 8522 
I 0 Oxford 0 Padova 
L ______ ~Padov:_ ___ ~·=-______j ·--------------------------------------· 



page 6 The Observer Monday, February 24, 1 992 
~~~------~--------~------------~------~~------------------------------------------­
0 . ve .t Gangs
Sharon 0'Brien, was charged Drugs are the main issue in so many killings, all of the gang 
l.Jfcoming Events 

PROUDLY PRESENTS 
11JESDA Y. FEBRUARY 25 GEORGE A. WPEZ Kroc l.ostitule Faculty Fellow aad 
Aaocia1e l"rolessor, Depu1meat of 

AN EVENING OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN SPIRITUALITY Goftl'llllleld aad lldenlatioaal Stuc&s 
•QUOTABLE QUOTES, 
SUPPERY SLOPES, AND 1BE 

ARCHBISHOP GEORGE STALLINGS 
SEARCH FOR E111ICS IN 

EXCOMMUNICATED BY THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH
W AR-FlGHI'ING IN TilE 
PERSIAN GULF' 

FOUNDER AND LEADER OF 111£ 
4:00p.m. 

AFRICAN-AMERICAN CATHOLIC ·CONGREGATION 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
THURSDAY.FEBRUARY27 

ALSO FEATURfN(; 
LEONID VOLKOV Pmple's Deputy of the Russiaa 

A PERFORMANCE BY THE NOTRE DAME VOICES OF FAITH GOSPEL 
hrtiamellt, Ad"fiwr to Boris Yebsio, aad Co-Chainaaa of the Russiaa Social 

ENSEMBlE Democratic hl1y 
•RUSSIAN POUTICS SINCE 
TilE COUP" 
Cosponsored with the 
Department of History 

MONDAY U:lS p.m. 
FEBRUARY 24, 1992, 7P.M. Hesburgh Center Auditorium CUSHING AUDITOIHlJM 
INSTITUTE FOR 

INTERNATIONAL 
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT TilE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK: $3 GENERAL PUBLIC $2 STUDENTS
111111 ~~~o;l!;!?r!:~ 
rs1 y 

continued from page 1 
ommendations, including the following: 
•The 
indusion of "a commit­ment to becoming a community of harmonious cultural diver­sity" in the ND mission state­ment; 

•Better 
coordination of ad­ministrative efforts at enhanc­ing cultural diversity; 

•Studying 
the possibility of more competitive financial aid packages to minorities; and 

•Further 
study of the concept of a multicultural center. 


The Committee on Atmosphere, Culture and Environment, chaired by Demetrius Marlowe, academic counselor for student-athletes, conducted student hearings in a majority of the residence halls last semester and is winding up the hearings this semester. 
During the hearings, which attracted light turnouts, the following observations and concerns were among those ex­pressed by students (a response was included in the interim re­port if it appeared more than five times in the hearing re­ports): 
•Minority 
students are not adequately informed about the atmosphere, culture and envi­ronment at ND before coming; 

•The 
curriculum should re­flect the University's desire to achieve cultural diversity; 

•Minority 
groups, though not only they, tend to separate themselves from other stu­dents, especially in the dining halls; 

•Many 
students assume that black male students are ath­letes; 

•Varsity 
athletes tend to sep­arate themselves from other students; and 

•A 
multi-cultural center would be another source of separation, the funds for which might be better used elsewhere. 


The Committee on Policies and Structures, co-chaired by Father Thomas McDermott and with examining curriculum. ha­.rassment policies, current poli­cies of the various academic continued from page 1departments regarding minor­ity hiring, and other relevant All of the men admitted that aspects of the administration. they had sold drugs in the past. 
Part of this examination in-d h ld k
0ne sai that t ey cou rna e 
eludes a questionnaire about up to $8 ,000 a day selling the policies and procedures re-drugs, but, "There are no garding diversity issues of each guarantees. It's best to get a academic unit and department. job to back you up... The task force is still receiving responses from the various academic units. 
Accident 

Questionnaires regarding cultural diversity will soon be continued from page 1 sent to students, said Smith. 
The victims have the oppor­Warner, in an interview last 
tunity to file civil charges
week, commented on one sec­
against the driver. "That's ation of the report from the decision that they need toCommittee on Policies and 
make," he said. However, as of
Structures that calls for "an 
Sunday, McCourt said she has
improved campus environ­
not received any further infor­ment." 
mation from the police. 

At the dorm hearings last 
semester, said Warner, some ----~------------------------~--~----------~~----­students suggested playing 
11 you see news happening, call The 
"crossover music" at dorm SYR's in order to attract more minority students to these 
Observer at 239-5303 and let us know. 
dances. He also suggested in­
corporating something about 
cultural diversity into freshman 
orientation. 

Warner said he saw "some 
RESERVE YOUR Z,4 OR 

value" in implementing a re­
5BEDROOM HOUSE

quired course on cultural diver­
FOR 9Z-93 NOW! SAFE

sity, but he also expressed con­
cern about adding to the al­
~VB, PRIVATE 

ready high number of require­
PARKNGLOT,
ments. 
VOl.lEVBALL & 
BASKETBAll. coun,

While Smith was pleased that 
the University has attained 
SEMI-FURNISHED. 

some of the goals set forth in 
CALl Z34-1886 TODAY.

the 1987 Hatch Report, he saw some of these goals as modest, and hopes that the new report will be bolder. 
On the issue of minority faculty hiring, which was 
MAPLE LANE 

addressed by the Hatch Report, Smith said, "There are people 
BARBER SHOP 
out there. It's a cop-out to say 
HOURS: MON·FRI 8:00-5:30
there are no minority candidates to hire." 
SAT 8:00·3:0& 
Smith actually shied away from the term "cultural diver­
2112 South Bend ,Avenu~
sity." He preferred "cross-cul­
Appointments If desired
turalism," a term that connotes "weaving differences together 
272-6722 into something that's a strength in the University, not having parallel cultures that don't interact." 
the housing projects. according members agreed that it is a to the gang members. Drugs part of life which they are ac-inevitably lead to violence be-customed to because it happens cause, as one member said, so frequently. But they went on "Wherever there's drugs, you to say that there is not as much know there's guns." Another violence in the projects as there member added, "Killings are was five or ten years ago. over turf. Different groups fight One member said, "Besides over the same area to sell getting shot at, I think I am drugs." doing pretty good. I haven't 
When asked about witnessing gave up yet." 
ATTENTION: CINCINNATI AREA STUDENTS · 
The 1992 xavier Summer Sessions Bulletin of Clas..~s & Workshops Is now available. Undergraduate &graduate level courses offered in the areas of Arts & Sciences, Business, Education, Professional Studies & Social Sciences from May 18-August 14. For your copy call or write: 
X\VIE~ 

f:M Summer Sessions UNIVERSITY 
*'~~''' 
~~ 3800 Victory Parkwayli1 Cincinnati, OH 45207·3123 1U 513n45-3601
«-»:·: 
Xavier University is an academic cofTU1UIIIily committed to equal opportunity for all persons regardl~s of age, sa, race, religion, handicap. or national origin. 
The accident occurred at ap­proximately 2:07 a.m. last Sun­day on Ivy Road near Turtle Creek Apartments. 
The car struck Joyce first, throwing her ofT the side of the road. A side-view mirror then flew from the vehicle, hitting McCourt in the back. 
The women could only de­scribe the car as white. Fierrell issued a call last Monday to the community to 
contact police with information about the incident. The com­munity's response in giving in­formation about the incident was "tremendous." 
Although Fierrell said he was pleased that the driver turned himself in, he stressed that the police, using information pro­vided by the community, "would have found him, regardless." 
Frank Rivera contributed to 


THE BLACK CULTURAL ARTS COUNCIL 
··-----­
.... ,... ,....,.... ,., 

Monday, February 24, 1992 The Observer page? 

The ObseNer/Sean Farnan 

Hall spirit 
Cavanaugh residents display their dorm spirit with a sign bearing the familiar nickname "Naugh,~ hanging in a window. 
The Observer 

Photography Department 
is now accepting applications for the following paid staff positions: 
Assistant Photography Editor Accent Photography Editor Sports Photography Editor 

To apply, submit a 2 page personal statement to Marguerite Schropp by Tues., February 25 at 5 p.m. For further information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 
Are you two terms 
away from 

professional school? 
Northwestern College of Chiropractic Is accepting applications lor Its Fall '92 and Spring '93 entering classes 
General requirements at time of entry include: 
a. 
Approximately three years of college in alife science or health science degree program 

b. 
An overall GPA of 2.5 or above 

c. 
Apersonal interest in acareer as a primary health care physican 


If the above describes you, find out how close to admission you may be and how to use your next two college terms to your advantage. 


Call: 1-800-888-4777 or write: 
Director ofAdmissions 2501 West 84th Street Minneapolis, MN 55431 

Iraqi leaders seek Saddam's fall 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP) ­Fifteen key Iraqi opposition leaders, reportedly including former army officers, met Sun­day to seek once again a united front capable of toppling Sad­dam Hussein. 
Until now, all efforts to oust the Iraqi leader have foundered because of the disparate agen­das of opposition groups, which range from communists to Islamic fundamentalists. They are variously backed by Syria and Iran. 
Significantly, the closed-door session at Riyadh's Conference Palace was the first officially sanctioned by Saudi authorities since last year's Gulf War. 
That appeared to indicate that the Saudis, who have kept their distance from most of the Iraqi exile groups and espe­cially Iran-backed Shiite Muslim factions, are taking a higher 
profile in efforts to overthrow Saddam. The conference also convened amid new moves by President 
Bush apparently aimed at orchestrating Saddam's down­fall. These included visits ear­lier this month by CIA Director Robert Gates to Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Israel to coordinate efforts to topple the Iraqi leader. 
Conference sources said the Iraqis gathering in Riyadh in­cluded former army officers, although none was identified. 
Also attending was Hoja­toleslam Mohammed Bakr al­Hakim, leader of the Tehran­based Supreme Assembly for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq -the main Shiite Muslim op­position movement. 
Another participant was Ar­shad Tewfiq, Iraq's former en­voy to Spain who resigned sev­eral months ago to protest Saddam's policies. Other senior Iraqi diplomats have followed suit in recent days. 
Tewfiq, who claims to have contact with anti-Saddam cells within the Baghdad govern­ment, said most of Sunday was 
spent on working out an agenda. 
"We're concentrating on a rapprochement of views," he said, declining to give any de­tails. 
However, the Al-Khaleej daily newspaper said the Iraqi oppo­sition leaders were preparing for a general congress to pro­duce a "formula for ... unified political action" in cooperation with governments in the region. 
A 10-point blueprint now be­ing prepared provides for a "supreme salvation council" that would rule for one year after Saddam's ouster until elections could be organized, the report said. 
This formula envisions an in­tegrated state government un­der Islamic law but acknowl­edges the Kurds, who are pre­dominantly Sunni Muslims, as an ethnic entity, the daily re­ported. 
Still, differences remain on how to topple Saddam from power. 

Wash. town reacts to wrestling team rape 
SUNNYSIDE, Wash. (AP) -A high school wrestler's accusa­tion that he was raped with a mop handle by roughhousing teammates brought charges against four boys who some de­fend as scapegoats. 
Bryan Brownlee, 15, told a national TV audience how he was overcome by a "dogpile" and pinned to the wrestling mats by several classmates as dozens watched. 
"I remember the words: 'Do you like it?,"' Brownlee said last week on "Donahue." 
The attack Jan. 17. led to ju­venile sexual assault charges against four teammates, who were expelled. It shook this small farm town, where Sunny­side High School's wresting team is a state powerhouse. 
Students have walked out of classes and residents have packed community forums to vent their feelings. Hundreds have marched in support of Brownlee or the four alleged attackers, who have pleaded innocent to second-degree rape. 
"The school has found four scapegoats," said Sam Martinez, a local Hispanic leader. "There could be 50 or 60 others involved in the inci­dent." 
School officials said the attack was commonplace rough­housing that got out of hand. Some parents have complained about the lack of coaching su­pervision and a perceived atti­tude that the team encourages such "dogpiles" against team­mates put on a "wimp" list posted by coaches. 
There have been repeated 
The Observer 
News Department 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: Associate News Editor Assistant News Editors Day Chief Business Editor Business Copy Editor News Copy Editors 
To apply, submit a resume and 1 page personal statement to David Kinney by Tues., February 25 at 5 p.m. For further information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 

Feb. 25th JRCC 7:30PM 
Tickets still auailable 
$12 ND/SMC Student with ID 
S18 Public 
demands, including a petition signed by about 600 residents, for an outside investigation. The school board has rejected the idea. 
Brownlee reenacted the at­tack on "Donahue," showing how he was knocked down in a wrestling room by a cascade of teammates, briefly broke loose and turned over, only to be pinned chest-down by up to eight wrestlers. 
The boy said he was able to look back over his shoulder, where he saw boys holding his legs as he screamed, kicked and fought. At least two others wielded the mop handle. 
Speaking to a caller angered about the reenactment, host Phil Donahue admitted: "I would not ask a woman to do that." He said the boy and his lawyer consented beforehand. 
Man with 12 OWl convictions gets 15 years to life 
ELIZABETHTOWN, N.Y. (AP) 
-A 62-year-old man with 12 
drinking and driving convic­
tions has been sentenced to 15 
years to life in prison under the 
state's persistent felony of­
fender law. 
Acting Essex County Court 
Judge S. Peter Feldstein on Fri­
day ordered Louis Bowers to 
serve two concurrent terms of 
15 years to life for driving 
while intoxicated and aggra­
vated unlicensed operation of a 
vehicle. He was convicted in 
November. 
Bowers, of Warrensburg in 
the northeastern corner of New 
York state, was arrested after 
driving his pickup truck into a 
swamp in Minerva in August 
1990. 


Business 
Monday, February 24, 1992 
page 8 
Workers overexposed to radiation 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Work­ers at an eastern Idaho nuclear engineering facility and people living nearby have been exposed to excessive doses of radiation, the General Accounting Office (GAO) said in a report released Sunday. 
GAO said the findings were based on an analysis of 115 known episodic radiation re­leases to the atmosphere from the Energy Department's Idaho National Engineering Labora­tory, plus data on annual expo­sure. 
It said two of the episodic re­leases would have exceeded present radiation protection standards for the public, although they did not exceed the standards in effect at the time. 
The GAO -the investigative branch of Congress -also said 240 workers received annual doses above the current expo­sure limits, although not above the more lenient limits in effect from 1951 to 1985. It said this was the most recent data avail­able. 
The study said six events since 1949 have caused 25 workers to receive radiation doses in excess of the current standards. The doses for 18 of the workers exceeded the limits in effect at the time. 
In the most serious of these accidents, three workers were killed in an explosion in a reac­tor vessel Jan. ·3, 1961. There­port said 14 people received ex­cessive radiation doses while retrieving the bodies and clean­ing up after the explosion. 
The report did not describe any radiation-caused injuries or illnesses. 
Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, 
chairman of the Senate Gov­
ernmental Affairs Committee, 
requested the report, saying the 
Energy Department had never 
conducted a study of all work­
ers at the site to determine the 
health risks. 

"I certainly hope this report will open some eyes and get such a study underway," Glenn said. 
He said he would discuss the report with Energy Department officials at a hearing Tuesday and ask "why such careless at­tention has been paid to the people hurt by these govern­ment experiments." 
The GAO said that at Glenn's request it did not seek agency comment on a draft of its re­port. It said officials of the laboratory agreed with the ac­curacy of the information in the report. 
ACLU will investigate use of water sprinklers against homeless people 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) said it will investigate merchants' use of water sprin­klers to drive homeless people away from their businesses. 
"It is reminiscent of the 1960s when they turned water on civil rights marchers," said ACLU spokeswoman Linda Burstyn. "Unless they are breaking the law, people have a right to be on a public sidewalk." 
Store owner Jack Simone said he installed electrically powered sprinklers on his roof five years ago. 
"The only people who can make them move are the po­lice," Simone said Friday. "Water is the single most effec­tive way other than that." 
Simone said he turns on his sprinklers when fights break out and when people use alco­hol or drugs outside his store, and when he thinks too many people are gathered. 
"They sleep in front of your business; they build bonfires to keep warm," Simone said. "I didn't want to come to work one day and find my business burned down." 
Homeless people in the area complain that many merchants turn their sprinklers on without warning, soaking people's blankets and other belongings. 
Sprinklers also have been in­stalled at two area missions. 
We write in response to President Malloy's public statement (The Observer, February 17) concerning University Governance. That statement summarizes the President's position on the proposed alteration of the Academic Council's structure. At its December 4 meeting, the Academic Council voted decisively in favor of this proposal. It is now on his desk awaiting his approval or his veto. WE URGE THAT THE PRESIDENT NOT VETO THIS PROPOSAL. We want to review the history and the content of this proposal since neither was adequately discussed in the President's statement. In the November 1989 university-wide survey of the faculty, an overwhelming majority (86%) concurred with the sense the North Central Accreditation Committee Reports of 1974 and 1984 that there was insufficient faculty participation in university decision making processes. In May of 1990 a delegation from the Faculty Senate asked President Malloy to appoint a number of administrators to an administration-faculty committee on our governance structures. The President declined to do so. He indicated that the faculty would have to try alone to persuade the Academic Council to accept changes in these structures. He further said that a mere majority in the Academic Council on that question would not dissuade him from vetoing such changes: the vote would, at the least, have to be more  decisive for him to accept such a proposal. In the fall of 1990, the Senate then organized a university wide election of a Faculty Committee on University Governance. At the same time members of the Senate urged the administration, on many separate occasions, to cooperate with the committee. The Governance Committee made its report in May, 1991. The principal features of Governance Committee's proposal in its final form (as passed by the Academic Council in December) were: -a provision that the Council have the power to form standing subcommittees as it saw fit, these being empowered to meet regularly, -an addition of two students and one hall rector to the Academic Council, -an addition of six faculty to the Academic Council, -a requirement that the council meet six times yearly and that its agenda be made available to members before the day of the meeting. The Faculty Senate endorsed the proposal unanimously. It was placed on the agenda of the Academic Council for the meeting of October 1991 by the Faculty Senate, using its statutory right of agenda in the Council. This proposal was thoroughly discussed at the October meeting of the Academic Council, and at the meeting of December 4, when the President indicated his opposition. Between these  two meetings there were unavailing private overtures to the administration, urging compromise. At the December 4 meeting, a secret ballot on the issue ensured that all were able to vote their consciences, immune to pressures of any sort. The outcome appears decisive indeed: 21 votes in favor, and 12 opposed to the proposal. We think that the members of the Academic Council correctly judged this to be a moderate proposal that would make the Council more effective in carrying out its statutory tasks. We believe that an effective Academic Council must have the power to consider issues in the detail that only a subcommittee structure can afford; that its members deserve ample time to consider agenda items before a meeting; and that meetings should be held on a more regular schedule. We further believe that the faculty have a special competence in academic matters. This competence forms the basis for proposing a substantial body of faculty on the Council, not organizationally tied to the Administration. Students have a special interest in the academic progress of the university. The proposal also tries to reflect that fact. Some have read into the President's statement of February 17, an implication that changes in the structure of the Academic Council ultimately threaten the Catholic character of our university, and are the first step down a slippery slope. If this is in fact the President's opinion, we take strong  exception to that implication. The faculty so frequently has shown that it supports the Catholic identity of Notre Dame that we feel a certain futility in further reassurance. We maintain that a consensus of support, throughout the University, has been expressed for the proposed modest changes. They are eminently sound improvements in our governance structures. We therefore petition, in a spirit of collegiality, that the President accept this proposal passed by the Academic Council. We ask all faculty to add their voice to our petition to the President. The Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate Prof. Paul Conway, Department of Finance Prof. Frank Connolly, Department of Mathematics Prof. David O'Connor, Department of Philosophy Prof. Anand Pillay, Department of Mathematics Prof. Clark Power, Program of Liberal Studies Prof. Richard Sheehan, Department of Finance Prof. William Tageson, Department of Psychology February 24, 1992  

Viewpoint
page 10 Monday, February 24, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Joggers tempt death Many oppose church 'renovation' 
Dear Editor: traordinary beauty. cated on the other side of the I _have talked to several Something about this aspect altar. I cannot look at the people concerning the of the "renovation" seems so priest or the altar, because I
by running in the road 
renovation of the Church of backward-minded that I doubt am continually making eye Dear Editor: run on dry pavement, as op­Loretto, and I have found I have much in common with contact with the people on the 
"When you go out into the posed to an uncleared sidewalk nobody who supports the the people who support it. other side. I realize that this world, watch for traffic, hold or an icy sidestreet. However, renovation as it is planned. I Could they have been reared difficulty is a result of my im­hands and stick together... given the road accidents of late know I have not taken a pure in the same Universal Church perfect concentrative abilities, Remember the little seed in the and the precarious conditions sample of the opinions of the as I, a Church which but I doubt I am the only vic­plastic cup? The roots go down at the time don't you think it student body, but the opinions appreciates beauty-both tim. and the plant goes up and was a tad foolish to be exercis­of my sample must hold some man-made and divine? I am also told that in the nobody really knows how or ing in my lane? weight. St. Mary's students tell me name of "renovation" several why, but we are all like that. Maybe you don't know about I also oppose the plan of ren­that the "renovators" plan to statues are being removed Goldfish and hamsters and the car I drive. The steering is ovation. I have difficulty ex­move the altar to the center of from the church. Is this not white mice and even the little a bit temperamental, pressing the negative gut feel­the church, to be surrounded against cannon law? The seed in the plastic cup-they all sometimes it sticks when ing I experience when I am by the pews. Such an renovation of a church should die. So do we." making right-hand turns. Not told that the replacing of alteration has already been be an improvement. These 
This quote from Robert enough to be illegal or stained glass windows with made in the Chapel of Regina "renovators" should respect Fulghum applies to a difficult anything, just enough to be clear glass windows is Hall. Several times my friends the efforts of their situation that I recently en­slightly off when trying to avoid considered "renovation." I at Regina Hall have invited me predecessors. If they dislike countered. Two weeks ago, people jogging in the road on a could only understand such an to attend their dorm's Mass. I the church which has been left · during a snowstorm, I was snowy Friday afternoon. act if the windows were no longer accept this to them, they should build driving in the Eastbound lane If you are a street jogger damaged and too expensive to invitation, however, because I their own (using their money on Angela Blvd., near the ND please stay out of traffic and be repaired. Yet, in the Church cannot pay attention to the and their energy). golf course. The car in front of find somewhere else safe to of Loretto, the stained glass Eucharistic celebration, as I David Wade me swerved to avoid five or six run. Remember goldfish and windows are not only am continually distracted by Grace Hall 
students jogging in the road. hamsters and the seed in the undamaged, but of ex-the faces of the persons lo-Feb.19,1992 Yes, that's right, jogging in the plastic cup die. So do we. So road!! Not on the shoulder, not might you. 
All can work to end abortion 'holocaust' 
on the sidewalk, but in the right Tom Esch, esc Dear Editor: man, in spite of the fact that us to renew the struggle. 
portion of the Eastbound lane. Off-campus Some months ago at a bache­he was not married, helped The least we can do is pray,I can understand the desire to Feb.19,1992 
lor party for a friend of mine, the mother prepare for the if we believe. But prayer another friend came to me baby, was present at the birth, without the action, which is with distressing news. It was and held his child in his arms. necessarily its fruit, is not the kind of news you want He asked the doctor, "Why incomplete. Are we reaching to hear at such a celebration. would anyone want to kill a out to help heal those who 
ND discourages 'family' 
As I drank my glass of beer, he baby?" The doctor responded, have had abortions and regret told me that a young couple "I don't know." Some things this decision? Are we invitingDear Editor: Dame to offer the option of co­
by ignoring coed option 
was facing a life choice. elude medical science. them back to the center of our I find it incredibly contradic­ed housing. During my Notre The young man and woman communities? Are we loving tory that the Notre Dame com­Dame experience, I have been 
had been in love but not plan­Every week, just 3 blocks and cherishing motherhood, munity consistently celebrates on several retreats including 
ning on marriage, at least not from the University of Notre especially of our own mothers the family and does not offer an the Notre Dame Encounters, immediately. She was now ex­Dame about 35 pre-born who chose life for us? Are we option for co-ed housing on where housing is co-ed by floor. 
pecting a child. He wanted her children are destroyed-a grateful to God, if we believe, campus. At events like Junior To my knowledge, no NDE has 
to have the baby, she did too, silent holocaust. I live in for the gift of life? Or are we Parents Weekend, graduation, ever been disrupted by partici­
but her parents wanted her to denial of it most of the time. I callously carrying on with our freshmen orientation, etc, the pants engaging in sexual destroy the child. They would haven't done enough to stop it. lives in an America which is 
Administration of this activity. Since I have graduated 
disown her for giving life. Yes, I give to the pregnancy being silently reduced to a University goes to great from Notre Dame, I have lived "Oh, God, help her," I said to centers in town that help kind of imprisonment in the 
measures to impress upon its in a co-ed house in Washington 
my friend. I encouraged this women in these situations; I've abortionists' workcamps? students that we are a "family." D.C. with two other men and 
friend to support these two tried street counseling to help Many of us are reduced to Well, what is a family? two women. I knew of no young people in any way he provide alternatives to abor­working without hope, living sexual relations among my could in their choice for life. tion; I've called my elected for the pleasures of the 
Though I am from a family housemates. And I promised to pray. officials; I've explained the moment, and caring less and with only one brother, I know Driving home from the party, right to life in conversations less each day. Which is it? It is lots of people who come from When will this University stop I said some Hail Mary's in the with friends; I've prayed. But my prayer that this university,
families with many of brothers clinging to its pet philosophies 
car for this couple. They came the holocaust continues, and I whose name cames from and sisters· --a naturally co-ed and fears as a child to an old to mind when I prayed occa­need to do more. I need a gift Mary, the Immaculate environment. Harmony may teddy bear? Just as the child 
sionally after that, and each of greater love, so I pray. Conception, will rise to the exist among these families eventually learns that it can time these two members of There are many needs right occasion and help to make based on a mutual respect for grow and prosper without the our University family received now. All people of good will to­human life possible from each 
each remember. Male family teddy bear, so to will this great 
my prayers. ward pre-born children and conception, safe from the members get to see their University if it lets go of its 
Life went on and I hadn't their mothers should unite: abortionist's knife. But have female counterparts at their fears of establishing the option 
seen my friend from the Christians, Jews, Muslims, we done enough? The choice best and their worst (and vice of co-ed housing on campus. bachelor party for months. I atheists, agnostics and others. is ours. versa), increasing an aware­
called him to get together for We have nothing to loose but ness and respect of the natural Jeffrey Bray Gus Zuehlke 
lunch. Good news! The couple our shame. Let our common differences between the sexes. Off-campus had chosen life, the baby was concern for the dignity of our Class of '80 
I would strongly urge Notre Feb. 19,1992 born. The courageous young fellow human beings motivate Feb.19,1992 
Letter from International Paper employee was misleading 
Dear Editor: they manufacture many grades South African Paper, "Printing, 12 percent. To force these then using them as Political · 
It is ironic that Hong Tuyet of paper from recycled fibre Wood and Allied Workers demands, the company locked leverage. However, in their Nguyen-Si/and Michael S. Falco, and develop products that "can Union," reported in 1991 that out approximately 1200 lengthy letter, none of the facts Engineers at The International be recycled." They also produce promotions at Masonite "are workers. In response to this, concerning IP's record were Paper Company and Notre a polyethelene coated board still racially dealt with" and that 2300 other IP employees at shown to be "false." Dame Alumni, refer to which is "recyclable." This is the subsidiary assigns white three other locations around It is only through pressure information about IP also a good thing, but again workers the most skilled jobs, the country went on strike in form the union, and exposure of disseminated on campus as meaningless to the issue at and black workers the lowest support of their fellow union IP's poor environmental record "misleading," for their letter to hand, namely that students at paying jobs. They further said members in Mobile. on the part of the union, that IP 
the Observer on Feb. 18 better Notre Dame were provided with that only five black foremen has been forced to deal more fits that description. false information. "IP owns 6.4 exist among the 800-member The company responded by seriously with these matters. In defense of IP's environmen­million acres of forest land workforce, and that the salaries hiring permanent replacements Further, it is only through the tal conscience, Nguyen-Si and­which are fully regenerated... " of those five are below those of for the striking workers. And interest generated by groups Palco cite environmental im­they say. But they neglect to white counterparts. although the strike ended a like DSA ND/SMC (Democratic provement projects at their fa­mention that lt would be The two IP engineers further year and a half later, the Socialists of America) that cility. They say that IP has economic suicide for a paper boast that IP has not laid off company refused to reinstate information about IP's past spent several million dollars company not to regenerate and large numbers of workers or the workers. Also, International actions, whether one wishes to over the last two years at their manage its forests. closed facilities due to the cur­Paper Company remains on the deem it "misleading" or not, facility to decrease rent recession. This is also com­AFL-CIO Boycott List. reaches university students, environmental impact. This is In reference to IP's Masonite mendable, but does not rectify To these two engineers the sit­some of whom may one day be 
certainly to be applauded, but subsidiary in South Africa, the IP's past treatment of workers. uation is nothing more than the working for IP. still does not counter any of the two authors state that In 1987 IP demanded wage union "taking advantage of the information concerning IP's "according to corporate re­and benefit concessions for idealism of students by David Brach past negligence. ports ... employees receive equal workers at its Mobile, Alabama providing them false or Off-campus 
The authors go on to say that pay for equal work." But the mill ranging between 7 1/2 and misleading information and Feb.20,1992 
Viewpoint 
Monday, February 24, 1992 page 9 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Campaign posters were sabotaged 
Students invited· to 25th Literary Festival 
Dear Editor: their spirit endures. As we ea­
I am writing on behalf of the gerly anticipate our festival, we 1992 Sophomore Literary Festi­encourage everyone, regardless val committee. In 1967, a of age or major, to sample some student named Rich Rossie, of the week's offerings. Begin-along with the support of . ning on Sunday, February 23rd friends and faculty, sought and continuing through the backing to create a week-long 28th, an .author will read at 8 festival to celebrate and discuss p.m. in the library auditorium; the work of William Faulkner. the following day that same 
After much hard work, author will hold an informal cajoling, and unending question-and-answer session at envisioning, the first noon in the library lounge. Sophomore Literary Festival We encourage you not simply was held, hosting Faulkner to attend the readings, but to experts from across the country participate in the informal for a week of reading, events and to stay for the discussion, and fraternity. receptions, engaging authors in 
The following year, student conversation, inquiring about John Mroz built on Rossie's their lives as writers. Most peo­precedent, this time inviting ple are surprised to lind that contemporary authors to share our guests are very their own work with the Notre approachable and equally Dame community and each interested in us. The Festival is other. The program for 1968 a truly unique opportunity for included Norman Mailer, this campus. Even of you are Joseph Heller, Wright Morris, not a writer, or if you have not Ralph Ellison, Granville Hicks, studied the work of these William F. Buckley, and Kurt writers at length, we think you Vonnegut. For an entire week, will find it most rewarding. authors, students, and faculty Enjoy yourselves . alike ate, drank, and slept Betsy Harkins, chairperson literature in a manner that may Sophomore Literary Festival never be recaptured. Committee 
Twenty-Five festivals later, Feb. 20, 1992 

Dear Editor: 
When I decided to run for stu­dent body president, I did not want the job; rather, I wanted to serve as many members of the Notre Dame community as I could. The office of president seemed the logical choice to do this. 
In my campaign I made a great deal of the faet that I am an Eagle Scout and a Knight of Columbus. From the beginning, I said I would run. and win or lose, on my principles. To my great sorrow and disgust, I have been defamed. 
One of my posters asked a series of questions, beginning with. "Do you enjoy class with your 124 closest friends?" Someone took a copy of that poster and, in the space be­tween the questions and our slogan, added two questions. This was ~tasy, as the font we used was the one which appears when a computer is first turned on. The simplicity of the posters made the fraud even less difficult. 
The questions inserted were, "Would you really vote for a woman?" and "Isn't this a stupid campaign poster?". The fraudulent posters were then hung in the rest rooms in Sorin, Cavanaugh, and Zahm Halls, as far as we can tell. The posters were removed quickly, and copies were given to at least two other candidates. 
At that time. Matt and I knew nothing of the posters. How­ever. a rumor began to spread that the two of us were hanging material which asked, "Would you really vote for a woman?" in men's dorms. This rumor 
DOONESBURY 

was actively spread by sup­porters of other candidates, including at least one hall presi­dent. 
On Friday a woman approached Matt and asked if it was true that we were posting sexist literature. Matt, of course, denied it. The next day, a female friend of mine called and explained that someone had written on one of our posters in her dorm's rest room. "Did you know these guys are hanging posters asking 'Would you really vote for a woman?"' She then, to my shock, asked if we were. I also denied that we had hung anything like it. 
Tuesday, after the election, it finally was made clear to me that the posters being discussed were not ones that had been written on but ones actually printed with a phony Student Activities stamp on them. I im­mediately tried to find copies. 
By Thursday I heard that one of the other candidates had one, and I went to see it. The candi­date produced it from a manila envelope of campaign litera­ture, where it had been since "early in the week." 
The rumor has been traced through P.E., Grace, Siegfried, Lewis, Stanford, Carroll, Pang­born, Flanner, Farley, P.W., 
Knott, Sorin, Zahm, and Ca­vanaugh. A friend in Farley heard it being discussed in her French class. 
With a campaign of rumor and innuendo I have been personally defamed. Where I ran on my honor and principle I have now been painted a rampant sexist. The worst part is not the election loss but the loss of friends who should have known me better and the respect of those I have worked so hard to serve for three years in myriad capacities. 
Perhaps it was naive of me to expect more, but I am outraged at the contempt of ethics in campaigning and the indictment of me as a man. I absolutely repudiate and deny the charges of sexism and defy anyone to present real evidence of moral or ethical flaws in my character. I call upon those responsible to come forward and make reparation. 
Finally, I exhort all of us, as Notre Dame, to insist that we hold each other and ourselves up to the standards we mouth in public, the principles upon which this family of ours purportedly is founded. 
David Certo 
Alumni Hall 
Feb.19,1992 
/.JJ4/rTCHA GOTllU£, 

50N~ 
TH/'3 {X){)W 1?8 7Ht Pf<f.Jifi?BIAL.. CANOfWORMS. 7HJfTa!Ha& TlMt WA5 50Wf?8NCf{IN6.tT~· 
EPU/t$ U/5 SPENTfVf1zyWAKJ/Ik3 MOMENT GRAPPUNG aJ/lH /551J&S ...... Of CfJNSC/5NCC.1 HOAfJf< ANI?... HBY! 
MY PANTY HOSt.' 

'lOUR 
/30'ft roes
WHAT? 
7HATTAJ<e
I 

M£8ACK! 
I 
'The world is not to be put in order, the world is order incarnate. It is for us to put ourselves in unison with this order.' 
Henry Miller 
Live in a tree hut, submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 
rj 

Accent 
Monday, February 24, 1992 page 11 
Good things afoot in the 
• 



St. Mary's service organization chapter combines community with leadership 
By AMY BENNETT week to work with mentally disabled family like that." she plans to continue her involvement Accent Writer children. The hospital has been included Cantrell is a member of the with the club after graduation. "If I end in Circle K's activities for several years. Potawatomi Kiwanis and a 1990 up working here (in Saint Mary's Circle K. "That was the main thrust of the club graduate of Wabash College. He is a Admissions), I'd like to be an advisor for It's not a ranch in Wyoming. It's not a when I joined my freshman year," said commercial credit analyst for First Circle K. I really want to stay involved. 
bus that takes people home from the Sullivan. Source Bank in South Bend. Cantrell I've enjoyed it a lot," she said. bars. It's not Bill and Ted's convenience "I think that's why we didn't have as took over the job of advisor to Circle K Sullivan said she feels that the group store. Rather, Circle K is the world's many members as we do now, because last September. members are very close to one another. largest collegiate organization dedicated many people are nervous about that "I had to laugh when they brought this "You have to have people that really to community service and leadership de­kind of work. That's why we included opportunity to me," he said. 'They have their hearts into serving the velopment. new activities; to attract a wider range figured that because I still look sort of community. The things that we do 
Circle K is an offspring of Kiwanis, a of people." like a college student that the students require a certain type of person. We world-wide service group for The group also raises money every would be able to relate to me." often see things that most people don't professional and business leaders. year to help a needy family during the Cantrell -said he tries to attend all the want to see," she explained. 
-

The organization consists of over 700 holidays. The families are assigned Circle K meetings, and describes himself Group members are responsible for clubs through North America, the through the Salvation Army, and Circle K as a "liaison" between Kiwanis and deciding how much time and effort they Caribbean, and other parts of the free provides food baskets, as well as gifts at Circle K. put into Circle K, although Sullivan said, world. Christmas. "I can bring in opportunities from our "We encourage members to be involved. 
The Saint Mary's chapter of the Circle Some activities are done in conjunction Kiwanis club, but I want Trudy and the We want to make sure they're getting K currently boasts 25 members. "We've with Circle K's parent organization, officers to make the decisions. I serve as out of the club the things that are there grown a lot this year," said senior Trudy Potawatomi Kiwanis. Adopt-A-Highway, a link to the outside community," he for them to take advantage of. The vast Sullivan, president of Saint Mary's Circle in which a group keeps a stretch of road explained. majority of the members have stayed 
K. She added that this year has clean, and Christmas in April, are both Besides the community service aspect, very strongly committed." produced the largest membership the done with the sponsor club. Cantrell points out that the link between club has had in recent years. Christmas in April involves cleaning Kiwanis and Circle K can be a beneficial Although Circle K has grown 
Circle K has mandatory informational and repairing the houses of families career tool for students. "What better considerably in the past year, Sullivan meetings every two weeks, although in within the community who are either avenue for a college student who has stresses that new members are always the off weeks the group gets together for physically or financially unable to do so questions about different aspects of a welcome, and that interested Saint a more social meeting, according to themselves. profession?" he asked. Mary's students should contact her. Sullivan. The formal meetings serve to Dean Cantrell, Kiwanis advisor to Saint In the future, Cantrell said he hopes to "The way that we (Kiwanis) gain new organize specific activities, such as com­Mary's Circle K, is very enthusiastic bring in speakers to Circle K meetings as members is by inviting people to the munity projects and fund raisers. about Christmas in April. a resource to the Circle K members. meetings who are interested in 
Saint Mary's Circle K is presently "It's a really neat project," he said. "The idea behind Circle K is that we community service," said Cantrell. involved in several projects. One involves "Some people don't like fund raisers and want to groom college students to "That's how I was brought into the working with the Northern Indiana State having to sell tickets, so this is an become future leaders," Cantrell said. club, and how I've brought others into Hospital and Developmental Disabilities opportunity to do community service. I Many Circle K members go on to the club. I would hope that Circle K Center where the members go once a thoroughly enjoy it-it's great to help a become Kiwanis members. ·Sullivan said members would do the same." .. 
From the Private Collection 
The Snite displays previously unseen works 
-.. 

By PAIGE SMORON Campagnola, Romano, and Carracci. Assistant Accent Editor Other works include a 17th century ink and wash drawing, "A Lion Hunt," by Tempesta; 
Some very important papers, previously recently acquired drawings by the notable accessible to very few, have been made 18th century English artists Flaxman and public. Romney; a French landscape by Rousseau; 
No, no, no-those JFK assassination Cubist works by Davis and Matulka; working documents are still locked up. But The Snite studies by Degas and Delacroix; and notable Museum is displaying for the first time many contemporary drawings by Sloan and Shahn. works on paper in their exhibition, "Master Spiro says that "...it is important to note the Drawings from the Permanent Collection." variety of styles that this exhibit spans, from 
the emerging naturalism of the Renaissance 
It's not a scandal, but it is a good evident in Domenico Campagnola's pen and opportunity for the Notre Dame community to ink landscape, to Raimondi's 'Reclining view drawings and watercolors from the Women' inspired by classical sculpture, I Snite's nationally recognized collection. reflecting the 16th-century interest in 
-I
The curators, Stephen Spiro and assistant antiquity." 
I
Mary Frisk, have assembled an eclectic The varied artists and eras covered in the 
sampling that span the ages from medieval to exhibition provides a view of the comprehen­contemporary, rather than focusing on one sive nature of the Museum's works on paper. period, style, or nationality. 
According to the chief curator, Spiro, "The All are encouraged to view "Master exhibit covers the incredible range of individ­Drawings from the Private Collection," which, ual styles and artistic innovati11ns of the 13th according to Spiro, " .. .is an invaluable to the 20th century." resource for area students of art and art 
Of the 100 works on paper, over 50 are on history to study the traditions of drawing view for the first time. Among the earlier methods." The exhibition opened February 16 works are pages from "Books of Hours" and and will remain on display until March 29. drawings by the 16th and 17th century artists Admission is free. 



..~----------~~~--------~..............~--~----~--------~------~~----~----~~------------------------------------~~~~~-.c~~­
page 12 The Observer 
Bouts 
continued from page 18 
Erik Milito. 

"Everyone thought that there was a favorite, but the fights today showed that it is equally matched," said Ganz. "I think he (Milito) is going to have a tough time with Schmidt, and who ever comes form our side of the bracket is going to be tough." 
The most impressive perfor­mance by a darkhorse con­tender may have been turned in by freshman Jeff Goddard. Fighting in the 155-lb division, the Ohio native won a unani­mous decision over James Oullette. Goddard was in con­trol from the start tallying three standing eight counts, two in the bouts second round. 
The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz Senior Tim "Express" Trainor (gold) easily defeated Marcus "The Switch" Vaughn (blue) in the second round of yesterday's Bengal Bout 
action. 
Women 
continued from page 18 
At second doubles, McMillen and Moringiello defeated Eniko 

-
Bende and Bradshaw in straight sets, 6-4, 6-1 to give the Vols a 4-3 lead. The Irish teams took the first sets of first and third doubles, but were unable to convert the quick starts into victories. 
At third doubles, Harris and Schwab, playing together for the first time, used an aggres­sive baseline game to keep Anderson and Emily Fisher off balance and take the first set 6­
4. However, the Volunteer duo steadied, cruising to the second set 6-3. The final set went even more decisively in Tennessee's favor, 6-0, to give the Vols an insurmountable 5-3 lead. 
At first doubles, Faustmann and Tholen, who have given the Irish a formidable team indeed, jumped all over Wilson and

• 
Kagawa, ranked 20th nation­ally, 6-0 in the first set. The 
otre 
ame 
ncounter 
A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTV & STAFF 
An opportunity, In dialogue with others, to deepan your underatandlng of yourself, your values, your ralallonshlp with Christ, your experience of Christian community and service. 

Tennessee team, however, proved that they belong with the nation's best, pulling out a 0-6, 6-4, 6-1 win to cap off the meet, 6-3. 
"I thought our doubles played much, much better," said Louderback. "We were right in the middle of all three doubles matches. Hopefully, this will motivate them. You have to be able to take losses and come back from them." 
The Irish will not have much time to rest, as two more top­25 caliber opponents invade the 
..,

Eck next weekend, Kentucky and North Carolina. If they can use this setback as a motivator, then the Irish should be able to come out strong. 
"Even though we lost," said Terri Vitale, "the matches (doubles) were a lot more com­petitive. We had a good chance to pull them out. This would have been a big boost for us, 

•

but we'll have a lot of chances coming up in the next few weeks." 
• 
RETREAT DATES: 
APPLICATIONS: ACCEPTED: 
CONTACT: 
COST: 
March 27-29, 1992 

IFebruary 19-26, 19921 
Campus Ministry Office 103 Heaburgh Library 239-7800 
$25.00 


0MPUS 
MINI5TRY 

•­
Monday, February 24, 1992 
These three underdogs, along with the rest of the fighters, will look to continue their battle for the divisional titles Wednesday in semifinal action. Twenty semifinal bouts are scheduled with the first bell sounding at 7:30. 
• Complete results I page 13 
Reduce Reuse Recycle 

Thank you! 



EAD POET'S SOCIE 
February 28th 7 & 9p.m. Carroll Auditorium $1 Free for SMC Sophomores and their Parents 
-Have yourjcworlu omdet mruft to orvUr with, 2f!tS~/!]~5wui your c/W(a 1omeferj~s 
5ervai wllk lmsh browns cwl 

At ~ttSred c»3fisli nu/m 
12.15 

LimiuoC Tum Se,eciaC rra CUf_, '1 a§ee Witfi tht r._urdirue of em omdit' 
GREENFIELDS CAFE 


retttur~ Fresh Brewed SE!c{a{i~ eofus, Csf!!CSSO cmc{ ~{no Loccu:ed mtht tfeshw-5h Pccue Cenur 
Overfoo~ the 9oifcourse 
Goddard seemed surprised by his success, by felt that his per­formance gave him confidence that he could be successful the the rest of the bouts. 
"I didn't expect to do that well, but now I think I can do well the rest of the way," said Goddard. "It's not likely that I will win it all, but if I fight good I have as good a chance as anybody." 
Of the six freshman who competed Sunday, Goddard is the lone freshman to advance to the semifinals. 
Off-Campus junior Tony Agostino sent waves through the 160-lb division with an im­pressive win over Briap Antonson. Going into the bouts, the division seemed to be Colin Mullaney's to lose, but the skills of Agostino and senior Kevin Sullivan should make Mullaney's journey towards the title a bumpy one. 
SMC 
_______________________________________________j. 


• • 
• 
•e 

SCOREBOARD 
page 13

Monday, February 24, 1992 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL American League 
CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Agreed to terms with Mike Fitzgerald, catcher, on a minor league contract. 
MINNESOTA TWINS-Agreed to terms with Willie Banks, pitcher, on a one-year contract. 
SEATTLE MARINERS-Agreed to terms with Rich Delucia and Jim Newlin, p~chers, and Jeff Schaeffer, infielder, on one-year contracts. National League 
ATLANTA BRAVES-Agreed to terms with Mike Stanton and Armando Reynoso, pitchers, on one-year contracts. 
MONTREAL EXPOS-Agreed to terms with Chris Nabholz, phcher, on a one-year contract. 
NEW YORK METS-Agreed to terms with Julio Valera, pitcher, on a one-year contract. 
ST. LOUIS CARDINALS-Agreed to terms with Todd Zelle, third baseman, on a one­year contract, and Alex Trevino, catcher, on a minor league contract. 
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Agreed to terms with Johnny Ard, Rod Beck, Dave Burba, Eric Gunderson, Chris Hancock, Gil Heredia, Bryan Hickerson, Jim Myers, Rafael Quirlco and Kevin Rogers. pitchers; Steve Decker, catcher; Mike Benjamin and John Patterson, Infielders; and Mark Leonard and Tad Wood, outfielders, on one-year contracts. BASKETBALL National Baaketball Aaaociation 
HOUSTON ROCKETS-Named Bill Berry assistant coach. Continental Baaketball Aaaociallon 
RAPID CITY THRILLERS-Placed Nikita Wilson, forward, on the suspended list. 
YOUNGSTOWN PRIDE-Named Anthony Gabriele director of marketing and Tom Bochenek director of media relations. FOOTBALL World League of American Football 
NEW YORK-NEW JERSEY KNIGHTS-Waived Paul Cioffi and Frank Blevins. linebackers; Denis McDermott, wide receiver; Russ Jenson, quarterback; Darryl Perry, running back; and Ricky Byrd, tackle. HOCKEY National Hockey League 
EDMONTON OILERS-Traded Male Middendorf, right wing, to the Detro~ Red Wings for Bill McDougall, center. 
MEN'S TOP 25 RESULTS 
How the top 25 teams In The Associated Press college basketball poll fared this week: 
1. 
Duke (21-2) beat Maryland 91-89; lost to Wake Forest 72-68. 

2. 
UCLA (21-2) beat California 82-76; beat Stanford 96-70; lost to Notre Dame 84-71. 

3. 
Kansas (20-3) lost to Nebraska 81-79, OT; beat Kansas State 54-52. 

4. 
Nonh Carolina (18-5) lost to Virginia 86-73; lost to Nonh Carolina State 99-94. 

5. 
Arizona (19-4) lost to Arizona State n-74; vs. Temple at the Sun Coast Dome, St. Petersburg, Fla. 

6. 
Ohio State (17-5) lost to Iowa 92-86; lost to No. 7 Indiana 86-80. 

7. 
Indiana (20-4) beat No. 11 Michigan State 103-73; beat No.8 Ohio State 86-80. 

8. 
Oklahoma State (21-5) lost to Oklahoma 70­67; lost to No.9 Missouri 66-52. 

9. 
Mlssou~ (19-4) beat Nebraska 87-61; lost to Colorado 7HIO; beat No. 8 Oklahoma State 66-52. 

10. 
Arkansas (20-6) lost to Georgia 87-78; beat No. 14 Alabama 90-87. 

11. 
Michigan State (18-5) lost to No. 7 Indiana 103-73; beat Purdue 70-68. 

12. 
UNLV (24-2) beat Cal State-Fullenon 76-47; beat New Mexico State 69-58. 

13. 
Kentucky (20-5) beat Mississippi State 89­84; beat Georgia 84-73. 

14. 
Alabama (20-6) beat Vanderbih 85-64; lost to No. 1 0 Arkansas 90-87. 

15. 
Southern Cal (19-4) beat California 94-81; beat Stanford 73-72, OT. 

16. 
Florida State (18-8) lost to Clemson 68-67; lost to DePaul 85-75. 

17. 
Syracuse (16-7) lost to No. 24 St. John's 63­62; lost to No. 25 Georgetown 72-68. 

18. 
Tulane (19-3) did not play. 

19. 
Cincinnati (20-4) lost to DePaul 71-69; beat South Alabama 104-78. 

20. 
Michigan (17-6) beat Minnesota 95-70; beat Northwestern 76-63. 

21. 
Connecticut (17-6) lost to No. 25 Georgetown 60-58; beat Providence 94-71. 

22. 
Seton Hall (16-7) beat Pittsburgh 82-63; lost to Villanova 74-59. 

23. 
Iowa State (18-8) lost to Kansas State 64-55; lost to Nebraska 80-70. 

24. 
St. John's (16-7) beat No. 17 Syracuse 63­62; beat Pittsburgh 71-65. 


25. Georgetown (17-6) ooat No. 21 Conn9C1icut 60-58; beat No. 17 Syracuse 72-68. 

NO-UCLA BOX SCORE 
UCLA 71 
Murray 7-15 6-10 20, Maclean 6-14 4-4 
16, Madkins 1-3 0-0 3, Tarver 2-3 2-2 7, 
Butler 4-11 4-8 12, Edney 1-1 0-0 3, 
Zimmerman 0-1 0-0 0, Martin 1-1 0-1 2, 
O'Bannon 4-9 0-0 8. Totals: 26-58 16-25 
71. 
NOTRE DAME 84 
Ellis 10-12_ 2-3 22, Taylor 0-1 0-0 0, 
Tower 3-7 3-6 9, Bennett 7-14 2-4 18, 
Sweet 10-19 3-5 25, Boyer 0-1 0-0 0, 
Russell 2-2 0-0 4, JuBilee 0-0 0-0 0, Cozen 
0-0 0-0 0, Joe Ross 1-2 0-1 2. Jon Ross 2­
4 0-0 4. Totals: 35-62 10-19 84. 
HaHtlme-Notre Dame 40 UCLA 33. Three­
point shooting-UCLA 3-15 (Murray 0-5, 
Madkins 1-2, Tarver 1-2, Butler 0-5, Edney 
1-1), Notre Dame 4-9 (Bennett 2-5, Sweet 
2-4). Rebounds-UCLA 34 (Murray 10), Notre 
Dame 39 (Ellis 14). Assists-UCLA 13 
(Madkins 4), Notre Dame 20 (Bennett 8). 
Turnovers-UCLA 15, Notre Dame 14. Fouled 
out-Tower. Total fouls-UCLA 20, Notre 
Dame 21. A-11,418. 
NO-BUTLER BOX SCORE 
BUTLER 70 
Warwick 4-9 1-2 10, Cotton 5-13 0-0 1o 
VonDiellngen 12-20 0-1 24, Majewski 2-7 ' 
1-2 6, Sloan 2-5 0-0 5, Schultz 3-3 0-2 6, 
Miller 1-6 0-0 2, Armington 0-2 2-2 2, 
Rexwinkel 0-0 1-2 1, Kimble 1-1 1-2 4. 
Totals 30-66 6-13 70. 
NOTRE DAME 79 
Bowen 9-16 0-0 18, Haysbert 7-14 0-0 
14, Nowlin 6-15 2-2 16, Leary 0-1 0-0 o, 
Orlosky 4-6 0-0 9, Smhh 0-0 0-0 o. 
Marciniak 6-11 6-7 16, Alexander 0-1 0-0 
0, Knapp 1-2 0-0 2. Totals 35-66 8-9 79. 
Halftime-Notre Dame 40 Butler 33. Three-point shooting-Butler 4-11 (Warwick 1-2, Cotton 0-1, Majewski 1-3, Sloan 1-4, Kimble 1-1), Notre Dame 1-2 (Orlosky. 1-1 Marciniak 0-1). Rebounds-Butler 30 ' (VonDiellngen 6), Notre Dame 43 (Bowen 11 ). Assists-Butler 16 (Majewski, Sloan 5), Notre Dame 17 (Marciniak 5). Turnovers­Butler 12, Notre Dame 16. Total fouls­Butler 13, Notre Dame 16. A-2,146. 
BENGAL BOUTS RESULTS 
135 poynd Plv!a!on Timothy "Wallin" Phelan (B) Unan. Dec. Bill "Chicago" White (G) 
Chris Johnson (B) RSC 1 :02 3rd round Scott ·can't We Talk This Out" Date. (G) Drew "Chops· Dougherty (G) Unan. Dec. Josh "The Janitor" Langford (B) Brian "Just Want The Trophy" Bophy (G) Unan. Dec. Ke~h Anderson (B) 
140 poypd D!yla!pp Jeff "The Disturber" Gerber (B) Unan. Dec . Dan "The Move" Mu lien (G) Timothy "The Terror" Veccia (B) Unan. Dec. Paul "The Destroyer" Plcchlone Paul "Primetime" Ferguson (G) Unan. Dec. Casey "The Wossenfeffer" P1elffer (B) Patrick "The Silent Assassin" Owens (G) Unan. Dec. JAmes "The Ramblin" Breen (G) 
145 pgyqd Dfylalpp Lou "The Sicilian" Pavilion" Hall (B) RSC 
1:22 2nd round Matt "Bad to the Bone" Carbone Micheal "The Fighting Squlrreii"Ahern (G) Unan. Dec. Mike Loftis (B) Renzy "Montana Mosey" Smith. (G) Unan. Dec. Dan "Rotten to the" Court (G) Matt "Fulla" Mullarkey (B) Unan. Dec. Rob "The Flyin' Hawaiian" Nobriga (G) 
150 pgupd Ply!alpp Erik "The Mosquito" Mllho (B) RSC 1:02 2nd round David "Hot Roderick& (G) Dan "Jacob Jlngleheimer" Schmidt (G) Unan. Dec. Stev "Canvas Back" Clar (B) 
Fred "Free-Fallln" Sha~ey (G) Split Dec. Anthony "The Man With a Vendetta" Cornelia (B) 
Rob "Pass The Smelling Salts" Ganz (B) RSC 
1:29 3rd round Colin "Night Train" Hanley (G) 
155 pgupd Ply!a!pp Shane "The Hit-Man" Hltzman (B) Unan. Dec. Matt "The Anchorman" Szplndor (G) Phil "The Thrll 1'1 Coughlin (G) Split Dec. Chris "The Choser" Rosen (B) 
Kevin "The Comic Book Hero" Mullaney (B) Unan. Dec. Ma~ "Marcus Maximus" Frigon (G) Jeffrey "Better Pray To" Goddard Unan. Dec. James "Russian Roulletter" Ouellette (B) 
160 pgynd Plyla!pn Colin ·southern Comfort" Mullaney (B) Spilt Dec. Kip "The Twig" Meyer (G) 
Kevin Sullivan (B) Unan. Dec. Kart "The Prophet" Domangue (G) 
Tony Agostino (G) Split Dec. Brian "The Butcher" Antonson (B) Dave "The Golden Shower" Dauenhauer (G) Split Dec. Malik "The Ebony Destroyer" Harrison. 
165 Pound Plyla!pp 
Scott "The Wild Irishman" Mulcahy (B) Unan. Dec. Kevin "The Bomber" Baumert (G) Jeff "Mr. Nice Guy" Oakey (G) Unan. Dec. Bill 
Franko (B) "Mysterious" Matt Raulston (B) Unan. Dec. Brian "Thou Shall Not Covert Thy Neighbor's" Welford Timothy "Express" Trainor (G) RSC 1:06 2nd Round Marcus "The Switch" Vaughn (B) 
170 Pound plyiafpn Kerry "The Garden Weasel" Wate (B) RSC end of 2nd round Cliff Clancy (G) Cesar "The Pleaser" Capella (G) Unan. Dec. 
Robert "Rockln' Rolla" Arreola (B) Scott "The Yo Cream Cone" Frigon (G) Unan. Dec. Kevin O'Rou~e (B) John Rapchlnskl (G) Unan. Dec. Jim "The .Anvil" McMahon (B) 
180 pgupd Ply!algp Mike "The Beast" Trainor (B) RSC 1:21 1st round Greg "Blackjack" Culligan (G) 
Mike "Mean Boy" Kelly (B) Unan Dec. Rick "Ebe" Ebert Greg "Chug'em and Slug'em" Keary (B) Unan. Dec. Felix "The Ox from the Bronx" Kpodo 
(G) Eric "Totem" Poley (G) RSC 1:26 3rd round Harry "The Cowboy of the Aegean" Zembillas (B) 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character par day, including all spaces. 
L..,___No_T_Ic_E_s____.JI 
USED TEXTBOOKS! Buy & Sell Books Pandora's Books 3 blks. from NO 233-2342/10-5:30 M-Sun 
WANTED: 3 to 6 dedicated students to fill the Thurs. 6-8, Thurs. 10­12, and Fri. 6-8 evening shifts for COUNSELINE. If you're interested in providing this Community Service, call239-7336. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4D82. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST-NJ Driver's Liscence-OK, It's been long enoughI Stop memorizing my address and SS#. Return my 101! No questions asked. Please return to Lauren x1711. 
LOST bright yellow Esprit pouch at NOH on Valentine's Day; contains detex,license, and other identification. If found please call Kiernan x2722. 
········Losr········· 
A thin gold rope chain bracelet somewhere between Loftus, NOH, and Hayes-Healy. Great sentimental valuellllll Please help! Call SARA at x4940 if you have it. 
Found: Calculator in Hayes­Healy/Hurley. Call1718 or 1719 to claim 
***FOUND"' Mini 35mm camera between Mod Quad and NOH. Was found before Christmas Break. 
Call Joe at 120 
I WANTED 
GREEN CORPS CAMPAIGN ORGANIZERS Field training and team organizing on critical enviro campaigns. Salaried positions in 3D cities. For info (303) 355-1881 or the Career Center. 
FULL TIME BABY-SITIER 
NEEDED IN OUR MISHAWAKA 
HOME TO TAKE CARE OF 
NEWBORN. 
OWN TRANSPORTATION 
REQUIRED. 
TEL:255-7961 (HOME) 
239-5608 (OFFICE) 
$350.00/ DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! 'PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. 
Drummer/Bassist to jam w/ mediocre guitarist. Matt-2155 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
3 SEPARATE BEDROOMS, USE 
OF FACILITIES, KITCHEN, 
WASHING, $225/MO. NICE 
NEIGHBORHOOD & HOME. 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS. PAUL 232­
2794. 
TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER SUBLET -CHEAP FOR FOUR STUDENTS!! DO NOT PAY EXPENSIVE DORM RATES AND PUT UP WITH RULES -HANG BY THE POOL!!!! CALl X3414­MESSAGE. 
HOUSE FOR RENT FOR SUMMER SCHOOL. $150/MO., $170/MO., $200/MO. WALK TO CAMPUS. CALL 287-2159 PAUL. 

ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO., FOR LARGE 4-BR, FURNISHED HOUSE. COMPLETE SECURITY SYSTEM: WASHER & DRYER; 9­MO. LEASE. DEPOSIT. 259-7801 OR 255-5852. 
6-7 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. FURNISHED.272-6306 
Rent Frat House '92-'93 Pooltble, Security System, 2 kegerators (full bar),5Bedrms (houses 8-9), fully furnished, 2bath, Cheap rent. 
Call now!! 234-6976 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO­Ironwood & Bulla -2 BIR -2 Bath ­available immediately-call287­0534 or 271-9268. 
FOR SALE 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 Mercedes ...................... $200 86 vw....................................$50 87 Mercedes ...................... $100 65 Mustang .......................... $50 Choose from thousands starting $25. 
FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Details 801-379-2929 Copyright #IN11KJC 
FOR SALE: SMC approved loft. $80 call284-5174. 
RT Ticket SB-Tampa. Lv. 3/6; Ret.3/13. Good price. Mike X3076 
1-way ticket, South Bend to SF. 3/5192 3pm. United: SB-Chi-SF coach. $150. Cathy 283-4409. 
New skis 1<2-180 Nordica Boots 11 Poles,accessories $300 289-3317 
PERSONAL 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
It's Coming! 

SPRING BREAK TO FLORIDA BEACHES. FUN IN THE SUN, 4/RM. prices. Daytona $149, Panama City $139 Kitch, Wtrfrt & Trans Available. Call CMI at 1-800­423-5264. 
DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO O'HARE? CALL UNITED LIMO. SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK FROM NO BUS SHELTER. 674-7000 OR 1-B00-833-5555. 
His eyes OPEN!!!!! 

--"Let's go Greyhound on spring break. 50% off anywhere we go. Restrictions apply. Call 287-6541" 
Shaka: When the walls fell 
HELP! Need a ride back to New Jersey for spring break. Call Michele X1294 
IRELAND PROGRAM '90-'91 
IF ONLY WE COULD GO BACK!! 
LOVE, 
MOL&MO 

SMOKIN' JOE IS A SMOKIN' HO 
Avon $$$ Sales. New Commission earnings selling at work/home. 232­0014. 
Irish Music and Dance Every Tuesday at Club 23 SEAMAISIN 
THEY'RE HERE! RECYCLABLE MUGS 12 oz. & 20 oz. Save $.1 0 on Beverage Refills at Oakroom, Huddle, Nile Oak, Allegro, Waddick's, Oecio REDUCE-REUSE-RECYCLE 
heynif 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-786­8373 
The Uzard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans! 
raft, you are missed. 
Becky, 
My world has grown brighter this past year, and I can't imagine it any other way. Say you'll be mine and I will be the most happy cat of all. You are truly wonderful. Thank you, darling-S 
HURRY! Don't Miss Out. SOUTH PADRE and CANCUN SPRING BREAK of "92"! Seven night packages from $199. Lowest prices guaranteed. Call Orion Tours TODAY: 1-800-800-6050. 
~ THECOPYSHOP ~ LaFortune Student Center We're Open Everyday!!! 
Needed: Ride to North. New Jersey for Break x3384 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND Condominiums for Spring Break. $20 per person per night! off beach $25 per person per night! beach front 1-800-422-8212. 
everything you know is wrong. 
Book in the Head: 
Don't forget your beads-maybe you'll GET SOME!!!! 
Many Fights 
Hey MARINA, stop thinking about finance and the business school, and all that other practical stuff. Start thinking about Cancun, your thong bikini, and the nude beaches you'll be skinny dipping at. Love Lauren 
Hey Unguini Head!! 
(Yes that's you, you know who you are.) 
ATIENTION! 
THE "PAPER" CHAMPIONS OF THE SENIOR CLASS DART TOURNAMENT WE WANT OUR SHOT AT YOU IF YOUR UP TO THE CHALLENGE 
CALL TOM X1762 
OR DIEGO 277-6889 
TO SET UP A MEETING PS. IF YOU WIN WE WILL PAY FOR THE DARTS AND BEVERAGES!!! 
POKEY! 
A special thank you to all my friends who put up with me all last week. You W!lre Qreat Thanx Bird. Kristen, Megan, Bethany, Elisa, Tate, and Lara, Dave, Luke, Paul, and Matt. ·MARTEN 
page 14 
Lewis claims IH hoops crown 
By BRIAN DINEEN Sports Writer 
Lewis Hall claimed this 
seasons women's Interhall 
hoops championship Sunday 
with an exciting 37-34 
victory over the Slammers of 
Siegfried Hall. 
The contest was a nip-and­
tuck affair the whole way 
with the largest margin at 
any one point in the game 
being five points. The 
clinchers for the Chicks of 
Lewis were two pairs of one­
and-ones in the final minute 
by Jenny Bruenning and 
Marci Powell. The 
Slammers kept it close, 
however, thanks to a key 
three pointer by guard Jody 
Hartwig which cut the 
margin to one before the 
final two free-throws. 
Siegfried coach Chris Winningham was thrilled at the success of this years team as evidenced by its turnaround from last year. "After not winning a single game last year we're just excited to be here," said Winningham. Playing on the main court at the ACC, however, hampered the usual Siegfried strategy. "We're not going to be able to employ our press on the larger court today," the coach said before the game. 
Lewis was led by Katie Shannon with eleven points as the Chicks amassed one of their biggest offensive shows of the year. "The last few games have seen us score the most points all season," said coach Ed Larkin. "We were ready to play and ran well on both ends of the ball." 
They responded to the pressure in style, however, and can lay claim to a hard fought but well deserved title. 
Whoops 
continued from page 20 
a 16-5 Bulldog run to tie the score at 45. 
However, with Nowlin return­ing to the game after a timeout, the Irish took the lead for good with 14:06 left in the game on a Sherri Orlosky three-pointer from the left wing. 
From there, Nowlin and Andrea Alexander combined to shut down VonDielingen (who led all scorers with 24 points), holding her scoreless for over 13 minutes. The Irish took full advantage, extending their lead out to 12, 70-58, with 3:00 to go, and then hit their free throws down the stretch to ice the victory. 
"Without Coquese in there, everybody felt like we've got to really pull together now," said McGraw. "We played well in transition, we played good de­fense. We're playing a lot better as a team now." 
f•th•r Df lhe lrlde ,, 445715 9 R•dla flyer P61 3 430 700 9.50 Weyne·s World PG I 5 500 130 945 
The Observer 


a goaltending call, and then 
made a three-pointer to give 
Notre Dame the lead back. 
continued from page 20 After Sweet hit a finger roll on 
a three-on-one break, UCLA 
called a timeout to regroup 
was out. We had Jon and Joe with 3:59 to play, and trailing
Ross and Malik (Russell) come 72-67. 
in and give us a tremendous The most controversial mo­
boost." ment of the game came when 
The second half saw the Ellis got a steal and broke away 
Bruins come back and for a dunk. When Ellis slammed 
eliminate the deficit, behind it down, it hit his head and MacLean and Mitchell Butler. popped back through the net. Butler hit two free throws to tie The goal was scored after a the game at 48 with 14:14 to go conference by the officials, in the game. The game see­much to the chagrin of Harrick. sawed back and forth, until "My understanding is that the UCLA took the lead on a ball must go through the net," 
Murray bank shot, giving the said Harrick. Bruins a 65-63 advantage. "In our judgement the ball UCLA looked to have the went through the rim and hit momentum when Darrick Ellis on the head and and came Martin stole the ball and Ed back through the rim as a dead O'Bannon layed it in. ball," explained official Sid 
"We had our chanced to win Rodeheffer. "In our judgement
the game," said UCLA coach when the ball clears the rim, Jim Harrick. "We came back that's a basket." and took the lead, but you've The basket gave Notre Dame got to make your shots. We had a 75-68 lead with 2:10 left. The open three pointers and missed Irish then hit their free throws them." down the stretch to sew up the 
The Irish showed their poise, victory, while the Bruins con­and made a run of their own. tinued their cold outside shoot­Daimon Sweet got a bucket on ing. 
UCLA 

The Observer 
Viewpoint Department 
is now accepting applications for the following paid staff positions: 
Viewpoint Copy Editors 
To apply, submit a 1 page personal statement to foe Moody by Wed .., February 26 at 5 p.m. For further information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 
(_'..,,~,~~~~f., Jr~JIU'"IJ"II
SPRING BREAit 
A"" A'""""'""'"'" 
I N FLORIDA? 
STOP AND STAY WITH OS 
OM 

YOUR WAY 0 
0 
II 

AMPSITES FOR EVERYONE FROM FULL HOOKUPS FOR RV'S TO PRIMITIVE .......,___ 
FOR TENTS. RESTROOMS AND HOT SHOWERS. 
I! ARB NATIVES OP' MICBIANA WHO RECENTLY PURCHASED CAPIP-oN-THE­'I.B AND WOULD LOVE TO HAVE YOO YlSIT WlTU US. FOR A LITTLE' HOSPITALITY IN A SOOTBBRN PARADISE PlAKE YOOR RESERVA­'l'ODAY. 
P0R RSSBRYATIONS CALL (615) 942--4078 
* MICBIANA PASS • 
lOt OFP' CAMPING AT 
CA"P-ON-THE-LAitll 
F.XJT 161 I-24, GUILD, TN 
Not Valid With Othe~ Diacounts 
PRRSSNT COUPON WIIBN MAKING RESERVATIONS AND/OR IJI'ON AHIU VAl•• 
Monday, February 24, 1992 
Upset sparks tourney talk 
By MIKE SCRUDATO few more games," Ellis added. 
Sports Writer Notre Dame has six games 
remaining and probably has to 
win at least four of them to re­
It has been a long time since ceive an NCAA bid. This would the Joyce ACC has seen an leave the Irish at 15-13 and on upset of the magnitude of the bubble. Five wins would vir­Saturday's 84-71 1rish shocker tually assure them a trip to the 
over second-ranked UCLA or "Big Dance." the type of excitement the win All the tourney talk has generated. sprung from the latest of many 
Suddenly, Notre Dame is be­upsets Notre Dame has pulleding mentioned as a serious at the JACC, first of the John NCAA tournament team. MacLeod era. The shocker 
Though the Irish's 11-11 record earned MacLeod a trip around is not the most impressive in the court on the shoulders of the country, the schedule it was the hundreds of Irish students compiled against is. who stormed the court after the 
"(The schedule) has been a win. tough road, but thanks to the "That has never happened to Lord we've been able to handle me before," MacLeod said of his 
it thus far," said LaPhonso Ellis, victory ride. "It was a greatwho had 22 points and 14 feeling and an emotional rush. I rebounds on Saturday. won't forget it for a long, long Ironically it is the schedule, time." which has been seen as one of "The only time I've seen Notre Dame's biggest problems something like that 
throughout the season, that (celebration) was on tapecould push the Irish into March against Carolina," said Elmer Madness. Bennett, who finished with 18 
They have now beaten four points and eight assists. teams ranked in last week's "Something like that has never Associated Press Top 25-#2 happened for us." 
UCLA, #4 North Carolina, #15 The scene Bennett was refer­USC and #17 Syracuse, three of ring to took place on Februarythem on national television. 1, 1987, when the Irish, led byThey also have wins over David Rivers' 14 second-half 
DePaul and Stanford, both of points, knocked off top-ranked which have flirted with the Top North Carolina, 60-58. 25 all season. 
"We've been thinking tour­"It was a great victory for the nament all year, but we had to team and the fans," Bennett get some things done first. The added. "I've got to give the fans win on Saturday helped, but it's credit. They came out in full 
not over yet. We've got to bat­force and gave us the energy to ten down the hatches and win a play our best. 
The Observer 
Sports Department 

is now accepting applications for the following paid staff positions: 
Associate Sports Editors Assistant Sports Editors Copy Editors 
To apply, submit a resume and 1 page personal statement to Mike Scrudato by Mon., February 24 at 5 p.m. For further information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 

The Student Activities Office is hiring students to work in the following areas: 
Lafortune Buildif18 ManCJ8ers ~lepan Cenler Building Manager Theodore s Qoom Monilors Games Room Allendant.s Information Desk Allendant.s Disc Jockeys &:mnd/Lighl Technicians Office Assisl.ant.s 24-hr Lounge Monilor Programming Assisl.ant.s 

Stop by the O'HARA LOUNGE, 1st Floor LaFortune 
TUESDAY. fEBRUARY 25 between 4;3Qom-5;30nm 
for more Information and applications. Appllcadons also available In Student Acdvides, 315 LaFortune. 
Monday, February 24, 1992 page 15 
Reflections on Notre Dame's Place in American Higher Education 
This is apaid Observer advertisement 
by Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
In order to assist the work of the Colloquy I would like to offer some personal reflections about the context of American higher education. The network of 3,500 institutions of postsecondary institutions in the United States are so diverse in their size, mission, structure and nature that it is very difficult to generalize. Nevertheless, these institutions have in common an educational task (variously defined) and certain expectations for performance (usually reinforced by accrediting agencies and federal and state policies). In additin'l, a multiplicity of educational associations exercise a strong influence through elected boards, through full-time staffs and through collective efforts on behalf of their member institutions. 
There are certain character­istics that define Notre Dame in its present level of development. We are a private national Catholic research university. This self-description determines the peer institutions with whom we sense a special affinity. We have more in common with Northwestern or Duke than Boise State, with Georgetown or Loyola Marymount than George Washington, with Indiana or Virginia than Ivy Tech. 
We are private and not public, Catholic and not secular, a university and not a technical institute. We do not have schools of medicine, agriculture, education or public policy like many otherwise similarly situated institutions. We possess a traditional and well established relationship with other schools founded or sustained by the Congregation of Holy Cross (Portland, Saint Mary's). 
Keeping all of this complexity in mind, let me identify a number of trends, structural changes, and other factors in American higher education that seem to me to be pertinent to our own process of evaluation and priority setting. 
(1) The nature of the dis­tinction between public and private institutions is changing rapidly-
It is the mix of public and private colleges and universities that has been one of the great strengths of our system of higher education. Today, less than 20% of Anierican students attend private institutions and this proportion continues to decline. 
One factor is surely financial. Private institutions are substantially dependent on tuition and other fees, bene­factions and grants in order to remain in operation. That is why endowments are so crucial for private colleges and universities. They assure a degree of economic security in the face of the pressures of the academic marketplace. Of necessity, private institutions are constantly involved in fund­raising. What is changing quickly is the extent to which public colleges and universities are also becoming dependent on fund-raising, separate from and in addition to legislative approval of budgetary allotments of tax dollars. 
It is reasonable to predict that for the foreseeable future development efforts on behalf of private colleges and universities will become more and more difficult. State universities have large alumni groups. They enjoy special relationships with corporations and companies within their area. They are professionalizing their fund­raising operations. In the absence of an expansion of the total philanthropic dollars, private benefactors, foundations and corporations will have perplexing choices to make. Some private colleges will simply not survive. 
Another dimension of the public/private relationship has to do with the division of labor-who should be offering what degree programs in which locales? Today a dis­proportionately high percentage of professional and advanced degrees are awarded by private universities. The preservation of this special form of service by private institutions is not inevitable. Decisions are constantly being made, sometimes under regional political pressure, to open new campuses or to expand state­supported programs without adequate discussion about the impact on already existing private institutions. 
Finally, as economic actors, public and private institutions have more in common than distinguishes them from each other. For example, similar types of institutions (research universities) are roughly comparable in actual costs of operation and In levels of ef­ficiency. What differs is the pricing as experienced by par­ents and students (since on the public side tuition dollars cover only a small portion of the actual. cost). 
Even more surprisingly studies have shown that the family income of students at private universities and at flagship state university campuses are approximately the same. This comes in the face of the general expectation that public education is a subsidized opportunity for the lower socio-economic classes, 
What are we to make of these realities? Surely not to breed hostility or bad will between the public and private sectors. Notre Dame enjoys an excellent relationship with Purdue, Indiana and !USB. Rather we must provide a regular and persuasive rationale for private school~ like Notre Dame. Our distinctiveness is our greatest strength. Our integrity of mission and our financial viability are closely intertwined. 
' 
2. A service orientation is essential for colleges and uni­versities in an era of limited resources and increased com­petition-

From the vantage point of students and parents a college education is an expensive and time-consuming proposition. Even graduate and professional students are forced to live frugally and to defer basic necessities for themselves (and their families) for extended periods. The love of learning and the development of life skills are worthy motives for this type of investment of one's money, energy ~nd talent. As long as the academic and social environment of our colleges and universities is conducive to these goals, we will continue to attract high quality students. But more and more a kind of consumer revolt is taking place. 
Parents and critics of the academy are asking whether the cost is worth the investment. Does a diploma from an accredited college or university represent a guided mastery of a given field of knowledge? Have higher edu­cation institutions grown bloated and complacent in the face of declining external sources of support? Are ad­ministrators too entrenched in bureaucratic structures and procedures? Are faculty relatively uninterested in the overall commitment to teaching? 
The crunch is usually expe­rienced in the details. In public systems of higher education it is becoming almost impossible to graduate in four years (because there are not sufficient open sections to complete a degree and because more students have a need to work part-time). In research universities generally the size of the average class grows larger and popular teachers are available for only one or two courses a semester. A higher percentage of undergraduate classes are taught by adjuncts and by graduate assistants. Even liberal arts colleges are undergoing a reapportioning of faculty work loads. 
The concern is expressed in a variety of ways. It is claimed that undergraduate education is suffering from the misguided priority given to graduate research and publication. Furthermore, it is said that undergraduate tuition subsidizes graduate education and research to the neglect of the University's primary constituency. 
While most commentators will admit that the presence of productive research faculty on a campus can make for a more stimulating environment (and for a more valued degree in terms of credentialing), a number claim that the balance has been lost and that we need to examine fundamental ques­tions of pedagogy. 
We need to recover a service orientation in our definition of professorial tasks and responsibilities. (I prefer this terminology over the more problematic notion of faculty productivity.) If we exist as a University to serve our students and other constituencies, then we may have to consider various kinds of restructuring. The suggestion has been made by some that we adopt differential teaching/research loads to maximize the contribution of the individual faculty member. We already do this to some extent for those in charge of departmental and college leadership. It could also be entertained at discrete stages of one's academic career. Whether or not this is a viable change, we have to find better ways to organize our common work within the academic units of the University so that our responsiveness to students is enhanced. If service is the operative category of evaluation (for faculty and staff alike), then time distribution, availability to students and colleagues, and responsibility for one's ongoing professional development are all criteria that matter. 
A service orientation also entails giving close attention to student concerns and com­plaints. We all know that shy teachers can be profound and that disorganized instructors can provide insight and moti­vation for life-long learning. Yet it is also true that some classroom and laboratory sit­uations are simply unaccept­able. 
Our students deserve better peer review of faculty performance in the classroom and more sustained commit­ment to preparing the next generation of college profes­sors. In an age of high technol­ogy we dare not risk providing overcrowded, nonpersonal styles of instruction. For the video tape and the interactive computer screen may signifi­cantly reduce the number of instructors required to cover the basic courses not only in a given institution but across the country. 
At Notre Dame we have prided ourselves on the excel­lence of our undergraduate teaching and on the growing strength of our graduate pro­grams. Our relative size still allows for a spirited and per­sonal sense of community in learning. But change is coming quickly and finding the right balance in a time oftransition will not be easy. 
Decisions about faculty size, teaching loads, reward structures, physical plant, curriculum policies and auxiliary activities will all influence the fmal result. As we continue this discussion, let service be paramount in the way we describe our internal interaction between faculty and students and in the way we view our relationship to society and the Church. 
3. If you cannot do everything, do some things well ­
Retrenchment and downsizing are the order of the day in both corporate life and the academy. Ivy League institutions announce budget deficits and rather radical methods of remediation. State institutions undergo two, three or four budget cuts within the fiscal year. Staff are laid off and faculty and departments are reconfigured. No new appoint­ments are made. This is the present climate of American higher education and it is not a pleasant picture. 
Some pundits consider this set of problems to be a momentary blip, a function of a cyclical downturn in the economy. Perhaps they are right. Maybe the good times will return quickly. However, there is growing evidence that the whole structure of higher education is changing in a more lasting fashion. In steady dollars, federal financial aid support for higher education has declined progrssively (espcially in light of the larger number of institutions and students being served). Now there is increasing clamor to devote a higher percentage of the federal monies (and the private) to K through 12 where the problems seem more severe. 
The United States is unique in having 60% of basic research done under university auspices. This came to $10 billion last year. The controversy over indirect cost payments (a negotiated figure to cover university overhead) is a reminder of how intertwined this relationship between uni­versities and the federal gov­ernment actually is. If federal dollars for research in Uni­versity settings ar£ cut back, it will have a profound effect on research universities as we know them. 
What an increasing number of higher educational institu­tions are doing is reconsidering their priorities. They are focusing their resources in present or potential centers of excellence. Even the best en­dowed schools cannot properly cover every branch of schol­arship and learning. Libraries cannot possess every possible book, serial or collection. Not all computer facilities and networks need to be state of the art operating at top speed. When there is not enough to go around, cuts must be made and stern measures taken. 
In many ways we are fortu­nate at Notre Dame. We still have a manageable size campus and a rather basic structure of administration. The Provost and his assistants, in collaboration with the Deans, the Directors, and the various Councils and Committees, directly oversee this enterprise. 
There is no reason that we cannot be flexible as we look to the future. The only thing that stands in the way are entrenched attitudes and a limited vision. We enjoy a bal­anced budget and a substantial endowment. With prudent fi­nancial management, proper setting of academic priorities and the courage to see our plans to completion, we can in fact do some things well and avoid the crisis atmosphere that prevails on many other campuses. 
February 24, 1992 



1 
The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz Senior heavyweight Chuck Weaver, shown here planting Ohio's Ray Kinsey's face into the ground, eventually won the match with a pin. 
Irish wrestlers crush Ohio, Indiana 
By JIM VOGL  never gave up. He just showed  meets of the year," said  
Sports Writer  the little things you look for  McCann. "I had a strong feel­ 
especially for a young kid.  ing it would carry over." It did.  
Beaujon needs a little more  The Irish dominated the  
Notre Dame's wrestling team  time with his technique, but he  Hoosiers down in Bloomington 
dominated both Ohio and  was just a takedown away from  on Saturday, recording a 25-11  
Indiana in dual meets this  beating him (losing 9-6)."  win. Again, the Irish big men  
weekend, raising their dual  The Irish got wins from  produced big as the Irish broke  
match record to 6-4.  Marcus Gowens, Mike Fox (by  open an 8-8 score after Jamie  
Wednesday's meet with Purdue  forfeit) and Jamie Boyd. Then  Boyd-Mike Palazzo draw at 150  
at the JACC is the last contest of  the big boys took over.  pounds. 
the season before the NCAA  Todd Tomazic (11-10) put the  Tomazic and McGr_-ew scored  
Regionals and Championships  Irish ahead 18-9 with a big  major decisions, and Tom  
in March.  second-period pin of OU's John  Salvino pinned Zack Nagle.  
On Friday, the Irish scored a  Jezioro, only the team's seventh  Perhaps the biggest disap- 
31-9 triumph over the visiting  win by fall in ten dual meets.  pointment of the weekend came  
Ohio Bobcats.  Although he usually describes  during the final match. At  
"It was one of our better  the 167 pound senior as reck­ heavyweight, IU's Vito Mauriei  
meets of the year," said Irish  less, McCann said, "Tomazic  (21-10-1) beat Chuck Weaver  
head coach Fran McCann, who  was in complete control of the  (16-5), thanks in part to a con- 
knew his opponent would be  whole match. Todd wrestled a  troversial penalty point.  
tough. The Bobcats lost by only  solid match with no mistakes."  
two against fifth-ranked Ohio  Just three matches later, Irish  "When you call stalling in the  
State, who crushed the Irish 32­ heavyweight Chuck Weaver  last seconds of the third pe- 
9 earlier this season.  wasted no time collecting the  riod," said McCann, "it has t0  
"We knew they would be  team's eighth pin. He got a  be flagrant stalling, like run- 
strong in the lower weights,"  three count on Ray Kimsey just  ning away."  
said McCann. "But we neutral­ 2:25 into the first period.  
ized them there and really  At 177, the Irish featured J.J.  As McCann observed of the  
dominated the upper weight  McGrew. "J.J. likes to go right  powerful match-up between  
matches."  after the guy," says McCann.  Weaver and the 6-foot-three'  
The Bobcats Casey Yacldn (at  The sophomore did just that  260 pound Maurici, "Neither  
118) and Eric Kimble (134),  against Ohio, scoring a 13-5  one could do anything."  
who boasted a combined record  major decision over the  
57-14, beat Irish freshmen Ed  Bobcats' Joe Rizzi.  Other Irish winners in  
Jamieson and Matt Beaujon.  Tom Salvino, the conserva­ Bloomington included freshme n  
But coach McCann was im­ tive, strong 190 pound senior,  Ed Jamieson and "1Em1  
pressed by the efforts of his  powered his way to a 12-6 win  Soehnlen, and senior Marcus  
young wrestlers.  over Scott Durieux.  Gowens, who improved to 21­4  
"Jamieson (who lost 7-2)  "It was one of our better  on the season.  


The Observer 
Accent Department 
is now accepting applications for the following paid staff posit~ons: 
Assistant Accent Editors Copy Editors 
To apply, submit a resume and 1 page personal statement to Jahnelle Harrigan by Mon., February 24 at 5 p.m. For further information, call The Observer at 239-5303.
Call For A Fn:e 199!2 Stud~nt 
Trav~l catalog! 
(1) (3) 
521 (7) Indiana 20-4 
4a9 

2 
(2) UCLA 21-2 480 (4) ' Arizona 19-4 455 (9) Mlssourl 19-4 
Jfl 
402 
(8) 
Ohio Slate 17-5 

(5) 
Nonh Carolina 18-5 


397 
396 (10) M<ansas 20-6 387 10 (6) Oldahoma Slate 21-5 337 11 (11) Michigan Slate 18-5 316 12 (12) Kentucky 20-5 
309 13 (14) UNLV 24-2 
301 
14 (18) usc 19-4 

® 269 3 
15 (15) Alabama 20-6 239 16 (19) Michigan 17-6 187 17 (17) Tulane 19-3 
186 18 (20) FloOOa State 18-6 134 19 (13) Syracuse 16-7 125 
20 (21) Cincinnati 20-4 122 21 (16) Conneclicu1 17-6 97 22 H St. John's 16-7 91 23 (-) Georgetown 17-6 90 

4 
24 (-) Oldahoma 16-6 43 tie Seton Hall 43
(22) 16-7 

• 
Olherll ....,.Ying votea: Nebraska 21, UNC-Charlone 20, DePaul 19,UTEP 18, TCU 13, Tennessee 13, Massachusenes 12, Louisville 10, Notre Dame 9, Wake Forest 9, Wls-Green Bay 8, Ball Slate 6, LSU 6, Virginia 5, Iowa State 3, Prlnceton 3, Stanforo 3, BYU 2, Georgia Tech 1, Rhode Island 1, South Florida 1, West Virginia 1. 
Schoolo Portlclpatlng: Alabama, Arizona, Ball Slate, Brigham 
Young, Colorado, Columbia, Duke, Kansas, Miami, Missoun. 
Nebraska, Notre Dame, Oregon State, Penn. Penn State, Purdue. 
Syracuse, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin. 

Despite loss, Duke still on top 
Observer Staff Report Kansas, who is ranked sec­ond, got four first-place votes, and Indiana benefitted from its 
A series of upsets led to some win over Ohio State, moving up shaking up in the week's to third and getting two first­National Collegiate Sports­place votes. writers' basketball poll. 
The Duke Blue Devils re­UCLA, which was knocked off mained atop the poll despite by Notre Dame dropped to losing to Wake Forest yester­fourth, and Arizona, which beat day. However, they only re­Temple yesterday, rounded out ceived 16 of 22 first-place the top five. votes. 

The Observer 
Saint Mary's Editor 

is now accepting applications for the following paid staff positions: Assistant Saint Mary's Editor Saint Mary's Accent Editor Saint Mary's News Editor Saint Mary's Photo Editor Saint Mary's Sports Editor Saint Mary's Viewpoint Editor 
I 
To apply, submit a resume and 1 page personal statement to Anna Marie Tabor at 405 McCandess or leave at the front desk by Wed., February 26. 


Join Little Professor's Children's Rug Club 
Every Saturday at 10:30 a.m., starting February 29th. 
Litde Professor will be holding a weekly storytime with activities for children ages 8 and under. 
ff Bring in this ad on 
February 29th for 20% 

20% Q 
off all children's books. 

FlBLITTLE PROFESS ORR 
OOKCENTE . 
Ironwood Plaza North • State Road 23 at ironwood South Bend • 277--4488 • Mon . ..Sat.: 10:00-9:00 • Sun.: 10:00-5:00 
--------~ ~-----------------------------~ 
Monday, February 24, 1992 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
Three weeks away from com­petition didn't phase the men's and women's swim teams, who took third and fifth-place re­spectively at this weekend's Eastern Intercollegiate Championships at Rutgers. 
It has been difficult for the teams to regain their mental toughness after last month's tragic bus accident, but they took a big step in the right di­rection this weekend. 
"Considering the situation with the accident the team came together very well," junior Greg Cornick said. "I think we performed beyond our expectations." 
The final results may appear to be disappointing after sec­ond-place finishes from both 
·:  .  
'•  '  ' ' '  .  
'  
'•  '  

.. 
•,,, 
'• 

teams last season, but under the circumstances the meet gave the teams a big boost re­gardless of the final standings. 
"We were really proud," freshman Cara Garvey com­mented. "It felt a little odd to be competing again, but we were only four points out of fourth-place and that would have been a major accomplish­ment." 
Considering the strength of the opposition, fifth-place was a major accomplishment. Despite losing to Saint Bonaventure, Southern Illinois, West Virginia and Maryland­Baltimore County, the women were able to knock off the likes of Duke, Cleveland State, George Washington and host Rutgers with only 14 swim­mers. 
At full strength, the men were even more successful losing 
The Observer 

only to Saint Bonaventure and Southern Illinois. Cornick cites mental toughness as a key to the team's success. 
"The layoff definitely had an effect," he explained. "I think the most important thing was that we were mentally ready to compete again." 
They will have to be mentally ready again next weekend as they host the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships. As an emo­tional season winds to a close, the teams are taking each chal­lenge in stride and they are not placing any added importance on the conference champi­onships. 
"Every meet is just a chal­lenge we have to rise to," Garvey said, "and now we just have to go out and do it again next weekend." 
I Ill 
·····... 
,• 1
I 11 
' ' 
'• 
' .. 
•' •'• 
page 17 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
•Sportsbriefs 
are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor o LaFortune. Please submit your brief, your name, your telephone number, and the dates the brief is to run. 

•Baseball 
and Lacrosse officials meeting has been changed from February 26 to February 27. The baseball meeting is at 4:30 and lacrosse is at 5:30 in the J.A.C.C. Auditorium. 


·Hockey falls twice vs UIC 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame's hockey team dropped two games to the University of Illinois at Chicago over the weekend, losing 9-3 Friday at Chicago before falling 10-5 Saturday at the Joyce ACC. 
The losses pushed Notre Dame's winless streak to 20 games against Central Collegiate Hockey Association teams. The Irish (9-17 -1) join the CCHA next season. 
Friday, UIC (9-15-6) scored five goals in a three minute spurt during the second period to cruise to a 9-3 win. Notre Dame's Lou Zadra scored on an assist from Sterling Black to tie the score at 1-1 in the first. After holding the Flames scoreless for much of the second pe­riod, the Flames scored five unanswered goals. Mike Curry and Kevin Patrick scored the other Irish goals. 
Saturday, the Flames con­verted on four-of-six power play opportunities in their 10-5 win. Zadra and Pat Arendt each scored twice for the Irish. 


Men 
continued from page 18 
Pro Indoor Championships made his availability for the Notre Dame team questionable. 
But after his straight-set loss to Pete Sampras, ranked fifth in the world, DiLucia traveled to Louisville to play with his teammates. The All-American senior, after a night match and late meetings with the press on Wednesday night, woke at 5:00 
a.m. to fly from Philadelphia to Pittsburgh. From there he flew to Louisville, where Bayliss picked him up at the airport. 
"It was inspirational for Dave to be there," said Bayliss. "When we walked in at around noon, the Florida team was in the lobby, and they saw Dave. I think that that had a lot to do with the momentum of the match." 
Florida was sluggish from the start, and won only three sets in losing six straight singles matches to the Irish. DiLucia, playing his third match in three days, defeated Bruce Haddad, while Notre Dame's Andy Zurcher, ranked 36th, won by default over 42nd ranked Mark Merklein. 
Bayliss made a calculated gamble at number-six singles, replacing undefeated Ron Rosas with untested Chris Wojtalik. But Wojtalik deliv­ered, defllating two of three opponents at the tournament. 
"We put Chris Wojtalik right into the fire by playing him at number six," said Bayliss. "It's a tough decision to pull Ronnie Rosas, a guy with an unde­feated record. But with the fast courts, Chris' real strong serve­and-volley game was our best bet." 
In defeating the fifth-and sixth-ranked teams in the na­tion, Bayliss and the Irish have put themselves in line for a top­five ranking for the first time in the program's history. 
"You just can't get caught up in the numbers," said Bayliss. "When your ranking improves, you put a target on your back and set yourself up to lose. I don't want us to start playing not to lose rather than playing to win." 


the Irish. In addition, Kala Boulware placed fifth in the 800-meter event while in the continued from page 20 shot put event, junior Karen 
Harris finished seventh. Finally, Cox and Junek 

Track 
place performances in their re­finished sixth and seventh in 
spective events. Alfieri and fel­the 200-meter dash. 
low freshman Sarah Riley, who finished fourth, turned in solid 
Both teams face a week of 

performances in the mile race. 
preparation before heading

Meanwhile, Junek and fresh-· into the Alex Wilson 
man Monica Cox, who placed Invitational this weekend here 
fifth, had speedy times in the at Notre Dame. 
55-meter hurdles. The event will feature the top 
Other runners also helped the teams from around the countryNotre Dame cause with solid and will be a tough precursorperformances. Freshman Eva 
to the upcoming IC4A and 

Flood notched a fourth place NCAA championship meets. 
finish in the 300-meter race for 
--~---------------------~--­
page 18 
Men tie for third at National Indoors 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
David DiLucia, after a strong showing at a national pro tourney, continued his success under the roof, leading the Irish men to a third­place finish at the National Indoor Intercollegiate Team Championships this weekend. 
Coach Bob Bayliss expected good things to happen on the fast, friendly indoor courts of the Louisville Tennis Club. His team, ranked tenth in the nation, delivered, with victories over fifth­ranked Florida and fourth-ranked Louisiana State before falling in Saturday's semifinal. 
"If you had told me before the tournament that we'd b1mt the fifth-and fourth-ranked teams on consecutive days, I would have taken it," said Bayliss. "On another day we might have been able to win the whole thing." 
The Irish dropped a 4-0 rout to sixth-ranked Texas Christian in Saturday's first semifinal. The mateh ended Notre Dame's run at the national indoor championship. 
"TCU played an aggressive style that I hadn't seen them play before," Bayliss said. "Apparently, they had been pointing to this tournament since fall. 
"They just came out of the blocks in a hurry. The number four, five and six matches were played first, and they won each in straight sets. Mayb1~ the momentum would have been different if we had played the top three first." 
After defeating the Irish, the Horned Frogs fell to third-ranked Stanford in Sunday's final, extending the streak of national indoor championships by California schools to nine. 
Notre Dame traveled a rough road to arrive in the semifinal game against TCU. The Irish rout1~d Florida 6-0 and LSU 4-1 before facing the I Ionwd Frogs. 
"I don't think in many situations in college sports do you play the fifth-, fourth-and sixth­ranked teams on consecutive days," said Bayliss. 
But the Irish took that challenge, and entered the anma without their top player. Notre Dame traveled to Louisville without DiLucia, whose first-round victory over Kevin Curren in the U.S. 
see MEN 1page 17 
Bengals begin with upsets 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
Seventy-two boxers made there way into the ring as the 62nd annual Bengal Mission Bouts got under way in thrilling fashion. 
The sixteen bright lights sus­pended from the JACC FiHidhouso ceiling beamed down on the thirty-six quarter­final bouts which comprised Sunday's fight card. 
The heavily favored boxers, carrying names such as Wate, Hall and Trainor, seemed to spend just enough time in the ring to have a boe-tie clad ref­ere(J raise their arms in victory. 
A-; most eyes were on the fa­vored boxers, a few boxers escaped from anonymity to assert themselves as serious contHnders. 
In the 150-lb division, Rob Ganz stopped Colin Hanley in the third round to earn a spot in the semifinals. Hanley caught Ganz early in the bout with a strong right that stunned the 150-lb sophomore. Ganz was able to counter Hanley's attack in the second round, sending him to the can­vas with a strong right hook. 
The third round began with each boxer landing a series of blows. Ganz shots appeared to btl doing the most damage, and after a strong right by Ganz landod cleanly to Hanley's face. the referee halted the bout at 
1:29 in the third round. 
Ganz's performance along with the success of Dan Schmidt extinguished the thought that the 150-lb division was a one man show, starring three-time Bengal champion 
see BOUTS I page 12 

The Observer Monday, February 24, 19~2 Women fall short vs 15th-ranked Vols 
By RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 

, It was a much-improved Notre Dame tennis team that met 15th-ranked Tennessee this weekend, but, as in the fall, the Irish fell just short of pulling out an upset win. 
Back in November, the Vois defeated the Irish 5-4, sweeping past struggling Irish doubles teams to overcome a 4-2 deficit suffered at the hands of the Irish singles players. 
A similar saga unfolded this weekend, as Tennessee came close to delivering a knockout punch early, but in the end had to pull out hard­fought doubles victories to claim the match. 
Things looked easy for the Volunteers in the beginning, as they jumped out to a quick 3-0 lead before the Irish knew what had happened. 
At second singles, Debbie Moringiello cruised past Notre Dame's Laura Schwab, 6-1, 6-0. Fourth and sixth singles met with similar setbacks for the Irish, as Wendy Anderson over­powered Terri Vitale 6-3, 6-0 at number four and Paula Juels streaked past Ann Bradshaw 6­0, 6-2 at the sixth slot. 
With their backs to the wall, the remaining Irish singles players proved their mettle, pulling out tight victories. At third singles, Christy Faustmann defeated Tennessee's Michele McMillen 6-2, 7-6 to pull the Irish to within 2, at 3-1. 
Following Faustmann's win, Lisa Tholen, her doubles partner, capped off a 6-4, 7-6 victory over Shannon Kagawa at fifth singles. Melissa Harris, ND's top-singles player and seventh­ranked player in the country, pulled out a tremendous 6-7, 7-5, 6-4 win over Mandy Wilson, ranked sixth nationally, to tie the match at three. 
"We were right in the middle of the match," said Irish coach Jay Louderback. "We had a shot at winning it, and it just came down to the last two sets of those doubles matches (first and third)." 
The Irish doubles tandems were overpowered by Tennessee in the fall, but came into this match playing strong tennis, and showed it against the Volunteers. 
see WOMEN/ page 12 

'Towers' star in SMC win over Kalamazoo 
By CHRIS BACON 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's basketball team(9-9) has a secret it doesn't want its opponents to know about-the Twin Towers. 
But wait. Only Notre Dame has a Tower, right? Wrong. The Belles built their own towers this season in their duo centers Julie Snyder and Kim Holmes. These two starting centers combined for 26 points to put the Belles back on track in Saturday's trouncing of Kalamazoo, 72-54. 
"They block shots and make things happen," complimented Belles coach Don Cromer. "They will be our mainstay next year." 
The key to all Belles' victories is the fast break. All season the Belles have been working on running the ball; but what they didn't expect to see, but are gladly taking, is the efficiency of the centers inside the paint. It is their rebounding that ignites much of the Belles fast breaking. 
"It was really a good game because everyone contributed. We ran them. An our defense made our offense work. We got the rebounds and that turned them into the fast breaks," Snyder explained. 
Turning in another superb game, Snyder dominated on boards against the Lady Hornets, blocking six shots. Snyder converted her 11 re­bounds into 10 field goals, for a total of 16 points. 
Coming off the bench to start in the place of injured Janet Libbing, Holmes contributed to the Belles as well, grabbing eight rebounds. Sinking five from the field, Holmes added another 10 points to the Belles inside strike. 
"She's had her ups and downs, but she's come along and she'll be an A player next year," added Cromer. 
The Belles were masters of the game against the Lady Hornets. The Belles broke out to an early lead against Kalamazoo and never looked back. Holding their opponents to just 21 percent field goal shooting, the Belles led at the half, 34-26. 

"Our fastbreak was working," explained sophomore guard Liz Vernesco. Vernesco showing confidence against Kalamazoo with her nine points, added, "We played really good on defense." 
Both teams mirrored their first half scoring. The Lady Hornets lost their sting as the Belles continued to run up the boards. Early foul trouble forced Snyder to watch from the sidelines for part of the half. But senior Kate Mulherin came in for Snyder, tallying eight points and grabbing nine rebounds. When it was all said and done, the Belles ran up an­other 34 point tab against Kalamazoo's 26. Duplicating their first half totals, the Belles ran away with an easy victory. 

Leading the Belles on the fast break was senior forward Catherine Restovich. Restovich chipped in 17 points and pulled down seven rebounds. 
Overall, the Belles outshot their opponents from the field 
43.9 percent to 2r> percent. But to the Belles, the real shooting challenge was on the line. Against Olivet, the Belles shot a poor 9-of-14 from the line. Working on the free throws in practice payed off though as the Belles only missed six from the line, shooting 21-of-27. 
"We did what we are sup­posed to do. I don't think we missed that many. When you hit 70-75 percent, you should be happy," said Cromer on the Belles improvement, 
The Belles have two games left on the schedule. They close out the home season this Wednesday, hosting division ri­val Calvin College. 
IllALUMNI 
~CLUB 

STUDENT BARTENDER APPLICATIONS 
& 

JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM UP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 5, 1992 


Spring Breakin' in 
Panama City, FL $99 Daytona Beach, FL $159 Ft. Lauderdale/Bahamas Cruise $279 Cancun $489 
Call Lance Dawson@ 271-1681 
Monday, February 24, 1992 The Observer page 19 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
«;11987 Unl.erul Preu SyndiCIIIe 





With their parents away, the young dragons 
"Nope, no Grey Poupon -but 1do have
would stay up late lighting their sneezes. 
some ketchup." 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
BILL WATIERSON 
1\.l\<; RtC.OG"\T\0!-\, 1-\C>~t.l/~~. 
\S l\t-l\(£0 Ttl ~£ H>.e\ Tl-U\T 
'{QIJR ~L\C\l:.'S f>..R£. \l~\'Jt.R'Sfl.\li 
0£\>LORt.D. ~~TN...\:: ~~ 1/0T\\-IG 'fO\l 0\lT Or OIT\CE 
fr..t-lO  1'-\t>..'f:.\N.G 11\0t-\ "DAD: \ ~'*-­ 
~  
1...  vp  




CALVIN AND HOBBES 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Bravo, in 44 Takeout spots Barcelona 45 Peter Rabbit's tail 
Chew the 25 Bert's "Sesame 46lnexpertscenery Street" pal· 49 Darkness:Director Rene 
26 Home of the Comb. form Minotaur 
50 Steinbeck's

Jimmy Dorsey 28 Stops hometown
hit: 1941 30 A Nigerian 51 Tallinn's locale 
Frost followers· people 
53 Greek moon

Singer Pat from 31 Headlong goddessBrooklyn 33 Riviera resort 54 Pepys, for one Otalgia 
36 "Hell is-": 55-up (in the Certain exams 
T.S. Eliot bag) Cape jasmines 39 Tracts 56 Discuss terms Winery features 40 Rubberneck Novelist Lessing 41 Hirt and Unser 
DOWN 

Supplementary 43 Place for words in a letter Pavarotti 1 A birthstone for May 2 Sea cow 3 Girasols 4 Tads 5 Guidonian note 6 Marilyn's "Bus Stop" role 7 Tips for Columbo 8 Rhine feeder 20 Tutor of 32 Singlehanded 9 Russian John Alexander the 33 Author of "The Great Stranger"
10 Sets of instructions 22 Nerds 34 Meadowlands 
11 From the 

25 Chair named for and Kemper its designer 35 Stinging plants 
beginning: Lat. 

12 French battle 26 Effect's partner 37 City in central site:W.W.I 27 Artifice N.H. and II 29 Louise or Turner 38 James Galway, 
14 Calif. peak 30 Field hands, at e.g. 17 Lion chasers times 40 Discerned 
BILL WATIERSON 

USIE~ 10 ME . '{0\.l CP\.JLD \.IM.t.\, ~\5 s::Alt-l05 l\~E 1\lJR\ ~tol-l~ l\lf..l ~'{, t>.t~D ANOTHER JOB FOR S1\lll£~ru.JS It I E.~R 1-\9.~ Of Mol'(\\\lt-lG M.A~! LIKE l\-\1'5 AG~\N., l'lL T~~E A.W~'< '(OJR Cosru\'o\£ R:>R 
G:1::i;). GeT \T ? 

CAMPUS 

Monday 
7 p.m. Film: "Senso." Annenberg Auditorium. 
9:30 p.m. Film: "Avant Garde." Annenberg Auditorium. 
LECTURES 
..

Monday 
7 p.m. Lecture: "African Spirituality as a Vehicle for Uberation," Archbishop George Stallings. Cushing Auditorium. 
TUesday 
12:30 p.m. Seminar: "The Argentine of Menem: the Social Cost of the New Economic Model," Atilio Boron, EURAL, Center for the European-Latin American Research, Universidad de Buenos Aires. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center. 
42 Ermine, in summer 
44 Photographer 

MENU
Arb us 
45 Orchestrate 

Notre Dame 
47 Chafe 48 Once more 

French Bread CheesE>
49 Julie Andrews 

BBQ Ribs
film: 1968 

Baked Cajun Cor'
52 Command to Fido 

Sports
page 20 Monday, February 24, 1992 
Irish basketball teams enjoy successful weekend 
Men shack# 2 UCLA in thriller 
By ANTHONY KING 
Associate Sports Editor • UCLA upset I page 14 
from the three-point line. 
Another historic upset was Murray, hitting 52.9 pPrr.1-mt added to the Notre Dame le­from three point range for the gacy on Saturday, when the season. went 0 for 5 from Irish knocked off second­downtown. ranked UCLA, 84-71. Offensively, the Irish got hot 
It was Notre Dame that early. KPith Tower stole the ball stopped the Bruins record 88-and hit Elmer Bennett who game winning streak in the layed it in to give Notre Dame Joyce Athletic Center in 197 4. their first lead of 4-3. Tower's The Irish pulled off that mirac­rebound and put-in of a Taylor 
ulous upset 71-70. miss evened the score at eight Saturday's upset may not at the 16:42 mark. 
have been as monumental. but Notre Dame would come out for first year coach John gunning after a television time­MacLeod, it was no less impor-out. Bennett knocked down a tant. · three-pointer off the in-bounds 
"It's a coup when you can pass to start the run. After beat a team of this stature," Tower hit two free throws. the said MacLeod. "This was a Irish full court press caused a great win for our program." turnover and Bennett 
The key to beating UCLA converted with a pull-up coming into the game was jumper to make the lead 22-15. stopping pre-season All­Tough defense and strong American Don MacLean and bench play enabled Notre three-point specialist Tracy Dame to take their seven point Murray. advantage into half time. Ellis' 
"It was a game that we had rejection · of Rodney 
great concern about MacLean, Zimmerman led to a fast break Murray and (Gerald) Madkins, that Ellis finished with a and their ability to score and thundering dunk. Jon Ross and score offensively off the glass" Malik Hussell put in quality explained MacLeod. "That was time during the final five the primary focus that we minutes of the half. while had." Tower was in foul trouble. 
The Irish defense stymied the "We had key people out at efforts of MacLean and Murray, the end of the first half." com­and the Bruins as a whole. mented MacLeod. "Keith UCLA shot .448 from the field (Tower) was out, Phons (Ellis) 
for the game, and was 3 for 15 
see UCLA/ page 14 
By RENE FERRAN But first things first. Before The Irish were without the 
Associate Sports Editor Notre Dame could begin think­services of junior Coquese ing about seedings and possible Washington, who is day-to-day NCAA bids-the tournament with a sprained knee. But four 
In an emotional farewell for champion gets an automatic players scored in double fig­seniors Margaret Nowlin and spot in the NCAA's-it had to ures, including Nowlin (18 Comalita llaysbert, the Notre get past a pesky Butler (11-12, points) and Haysbert (14) in Dame women's basketball team 4-5) team that had blown out their final home game. defeated Butler 79-70 on the Irish by 14 in their first In the pregame ceremonies, 
Saturday in the two players' fi­meeting. · Nowlin paid a tribute to her nal game at the Joyce ACC. The biggest difference in the roommates and family who 
The win solidified Notre two games was the play of formed a small cheering section Dame's hold on second place in freshmen Michelle Marciniak across from the NO bench. And the Midwestern Collegiate and Letitia Bowen. The two her play also was a tribute, as Conference, and kept alive its only combined for eight points she hit 8-of-15 from the field, flickering h,opes for a fourth and nine rebounds in the first grabbed seven rebounds, and 
straight regular season title. meeting. but on Saturday, they played excellent defense on 
The Irish (9-14, 6-4) are now a each scored 18 points and Bulldog star Julie VonDielingen. game and a half behind league­helped Notre Dame to a 43-30 leading Xavier in the MCC rebounding edge. Bowen "I was sad and anxious to standings with two games left snared a game-high 11 boards, play," said Nowlin. ''I've had a on their conference slate. while Marciniak grabbed a lot of support from everyone, 
If Notre Dame wins Monday career-high nine. but it's sad to be leaving her. It's at Evansville and Thursday at "The surprise was the fresh­been a great four years, but it Loyola, it will clinch at least the men really coming along," said was a nice way to go out." second seed at the MCC tour­Irish coach Muffet McGraw. 
• nament March 13-14 in "This was the best game Notre Dame built an 11-point Cincinnati, Ohio. And should Michelle's played all year. lead in the first half at 40-29, the Musketeers lose their last Comalita's a senior and we but then watched as three conference games, the wanted to start her, and she's VonDielingen and Angela 
The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz 
Irish would take the top seed been great coming off the Cotton scored 14 points during 
Sophomore Kara Leary drives to the hoop in Notre Dame's victory over
and the accompanying first­bench, but Michelle filled that 
Butler on Saturday. The game was the final home game of the season
round bye. role perfectly tonight." see WHOOPS I page 14 
for the Irish. 


ND track competes well at Indiana lntercollegiates 
By JENNIFER MARTEN "All things considered, we did 
3000-meter run taking the top the triple jump behind Dexter Sports Writer excellent," said Notre Dame three spots. Sophomore Mike Preddle of Indiana State while 
coach Joe Piane of the men's McWilliams and freshmen J.R. Schneider finished third in the 
performance. "We didn't double Meloro, and Nate Ruder fin­mile just two seconds off the 
The Notre Dame track teams any runners and we didn't ished one-two-three respec­winner and Herman notched a spent a very successful bring everyone." tively. third place finish in the high weekend in West Lafayette at Sophomore Willie Clark had a The other individual winners ·jump event. the Indiana Intercollegiate great day for the Irish winning for the Irish include senior co­On the women's side, the Irish Indoor Track meet. The men's both the 55-meter dash in 6.22 captain Brian Peppard, who turned in a lot of good perfor­team finished third behind seconds and the 200-meter grabbed top honors in the 800-mances aecording to Piane. Indiana and Indiana State while dash. His time in the 55 quali­meter run and the 4 x 800 me­"We are getting better by the women finished fifth behind fied him for competition in the AI ter relay team. leaps and bounds," said Pian e. Indiana. Indiana State, Purdue, NCAA Indoor championship Willie Clark Freshman Lee Becton, senior Freshmen Becky Alfieri and and Ball State. meet. Junior John Coyle is the Athlete of the Meet honors. Shawn Schneider, and sopho­Lisa Junek and the 4 x 800 re­
The men's team won five of only other Notre Dame runner Clark is currently ranked eighth more Todd Herman also turned lay team provided the top fin­the meet's 16 events en route to headed to the NCAAs. The per­in the country in the 55. in solid performances for Notre ishes for the Irish with second the victory. formance earned Clark Male Notre Dame dominated the Dame. Becton placed second in 
see TRACk I page 18 


