

·-·-· -------~--­
~.114~
II~-J -Q~· 
11~2·1992 
e Observer ~mMa~ca~
5I SQUIC ENHNNIA L
I 
NOTRE DAME •1/I!DIANA 

I 
VOL. XXIV NO. 98 WEDNESDAY , FEBRUARY 19, 1992 -· THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush, Tsongas win 1992 New Hampshire primaries 
MANCHESTER, N.H. (AP)­
President Bush gained grudging 
victory Tuesday night in the 
New Hampshire presidential 
primary, with challenger 
Patrick Buchanan claiming 
more than 40 percent of the 
Republican vote to fuel his con­
servative rebellion. 
Former Sen. Paul Tsongas of 
Massachusetts won the five-way 
Democratic race, ratifying the 
frontrunner status even he 
called improbable. Arkansas 
Gov. Bill Clinton ran second and 
pronounced himself "the come­
back kid." 
New Hampshire's blighted 
economy was the consuming is­
sue in both parties' campaigns, 
and Bush said he got the mes­
sage of discontent. 
"This election was far closer 
than many had predicted," he 
said in a statement. "I think the 
opponents on both sides reaped 
the harvest of discontent with 
the pace of New Hampshire's 
economy. 
He vowed to "take my case to 
the voters in the next eight­
and-a-half months," and said 
he was confident of beating 
Buchanan to win the GOP nom­
ination. "Now," said Bush, "on 
DeBartolo won't reduce donation 
By DAVID KINNEY 
Associate News Editor 
There is no indication yet that financial difficulties in the real­estate empire of Edward DeBartolo will jeopardize pay­ment of part of his $33 million pledge to the University of Notre Dame. 
The Wall Street Journal re­
ported Feb. 11 that he is at­
tempting to restructure $4.04 
billion of debt and is consider­
ing selling some assets, accord­
ing to confidential documents 
obtained by the newspaper. 
Dennis Moore, director of public relations, said that the University has not heard any­thing from DeBartolo about the possibility that he may not do­nate the entire sum. "So far as we know, there is no problem," he added. 
In 1989, DeBartolo, a 1932 Notre Dame graduate, gave the University a gift for the con­struction of the Edward D.eBartolo Classroom Facility and the Marie DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The gift was the largest in the his­tory of Notre Dame, according to Moore. 
Moore emphasized that the University remains grateful for DeBartolo's generosity, and is primarily concerned about the financial stability of the family. "It's not just a matter of dollars and cents." 
Because of the magnitude of the gift, DeBartolo is donating the funds over a period of time on a "friendly, personal basis," said Moore. He could reduce his gift if circumstances made it impossible for him to donate the entire amount, Moore added. 
see DeBARTOLO I page 4 
to the South." Angela Bay Buchanan, man­• One district votes I page 7 
ELECTIONS
ager of the challenger, claimed a major victory on her brother's Buchanan voters sa1d they behalf. "This is a victory. voted for him to send a Protest votes don't run this message, compared with 47 




New Hampshire democratic primary 
high. We're going against a percent who said he would 


winners and how they fared 
president in his own party in make the best president. More the state that put him in office." than half said they would not 

Year Primary winner % =Share of vote Later results 
"New Hampshire is Pat vote for Bush if he was the 

·············· ·· · · · ··.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.··.··.···.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.··.·.·.·.···~114-••·•···· .Lostn~i ) ......
Buchanan's best shot," said choice in November. Gov. Judd Gregg, a Bush parti­Buchanan campaigned to the san like the rest of the end, declaring at one point 85% 
Republican establishment. Yet Tuesday, "We're going into ·····.· .}<·•····.. 
the results were sobering to the Georgia and Super Tuesday Bush camp, coming in the state with enormous steam." Those where primary victory saved Southern primaries are on the president's 1988 nomina­March 3 and 10. tion. William Bennett, the former 
Lost nomination. 
The Republican vote, with 84 administration official, said in a percent of the precincts CNN interview that the New 
~~#~~.<·
counted: Hampshire verdict was "serious 
Won nomination. 

Bush 67,183 or 57 percent. trouble" for Bush. He said the J1mmy Carter 
Lost election. 

Buchanan 48,220, or 41 president would have to get percent. Minor candidates had tough with Buchanan now; Gary Hart 
the rest. "kinder and gentler is over." . .. ~~·················· •>•··.<·•···••·······LoSt fl~~~;•<>·•·. ·· 
Won nomination. 

Bush led for 14 nominating With 84 percent of the 1988 Michael Dukakis 37% 
Lost eledion. 
delegates, Buchanan for 9. Democratic precincts counted, 
APICar1 Fox
Polls of voters leaving their Tsongas and Clinton were polling places showed that the splitting New Hampshire's 18 Nebraska and Tom Harkin of Former California Gov. Jerry economy and jobs were the is­convention delegates, 9 apiece. Iowa, the challenge was to de­Brown 9 percent. 

sues that mattered most to both The vote was: feat the other and emerge as "Bronze ain't bad," said Republicans and Democrats. Tsongas 38,995 (33 percent). the more liberal alternative to Kerrey, claiming third placeEarly exit polls reported by ABC Clinton 29,030 (26 percent). Tsongas or Clinton. Kerrey had 
found that 52 percent of For Sen. Bob Kerrey of 12 percent and Harkin 11. see PRIMARY I page 6 



Problems plague Icebergs this year 
By NICOLE MCGRATH 
News Writer 
This year's Iceberg Debates had a shaky start due to all sorts of complications but this year's committee has striven to make the debates a success. 
Anna Garcia, head chair­woman, and Amy Listerman, judging chairwoman, cited a number of obstacles the com­mittee faced. 
According to Garcia, a freshman, there were eight people on the committee while this year there were only three people. No one on last year's committee came back to be on this year's committee. Most of the eight had graduated, said Garcia. 
Also missing this year was a faculty liaison. The liaison's job was to encourage other faculty members to participate. Listerman, a junior, said that she did not feel that they were hindered without a liaison. 
Confusion had arisen over the organization ofjudges this year. Last December, the committee 

Judge rules debate a tie 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Assistant News Editor 
Tuesday's Iceberg Debate be­tween Sorin and St. Edward's took an interesting twist when a judge ruled the debate a tie. 
According to Anna Garcia, de­bate chairwoman, one judge on the three-judge panel refused to declare a winner, saying that the debate was "equally well­argued." 
The other two judges split
The Observer/Meg Kowalski 
their votes between Sorin and


Creativity at work 
St. Ed's. After a conference, the third
Senior Craig Conner works diligently on a design project for his in­dustrial design class. 

judge ruled in favor of St. Ed's, sent over 1,000 requests for judges to faculty and staff members, said Listerman. There were about 40 responses sent back and Listerman says that this is a smaller percentage than in the past. 
To make up for the scarcity of responses, graduate and law students greatly helped the committee, said Listerman. These students' participation is not uncommon. 
Two judges are scheduled for each preliminary round. "Typically in college and high school preliminary rounds, there is only one judge.", said Garcia. 
The use of two judges is liked by the students, but Garcia pointed out that the judges have a tendency to split their votes. 
"There is no limit to how many times a judge can partici­pate but we try not to have one judge the same debate team twice.", said Garcia. 
According to Listerman, the option to tape record a round was offered to prevent discrep­ancies. This option came about 

see DEBATES/ page 8 
making it the victorious team Garcia said. 
This conference was a violation of debate rules, and the Sorin team protested the both the judges' action and their decision, Garcia said. 
Accoring to Garcia, the matter was referred to the standing committee, which decided to give St. Ed's the victory after the team refused to debate Sorin again. 
The committee also had the option to decide the debate on the basis of speaker points, which would have given the win to Sorin. 

page2 


INSIDE COLUMN 
ND suffers from political apathy 
The New Hampshire 
primary is history, and 
with its passing, the 1992 
presidential race is 
officially in full swing. 

However, the campuses 
of Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's will play little part Rolando de 


in the election campaign Aguiar 
of the man or woman who Sports Copy 
will lead the United States___E_d_it_o_r__ 
into the depths of the 1990s. It is doubtful that either George Bush, Bill Clinton or Paul Tsongas will make an appearance in South Bend in 1992. 
While recently leafing through the yellowed 
pages of old Observers, I realized that 
political inactivity has not always been a 
problem on this campus. 

During the late 1960s, Notre Dame was a groovy place. The site of numerous rallies and speeches during the 1968 campaign, Notre Dame was one of the Midwestern hot spots. 
I must hope that professors were lenient about missed assignments and tests during the first week of April in 1968, when no fewer than five world-renowned minds visited this campus, while another spoke at the local airport. 
On Monday, April 1, Norman Mailer spoke to a Washington Hall audience on the second night of the sophomore literary festival. The author, best known for The Naked and the Dead., is considered one of the greatest American writers of the twentieth century. 
On April 3, politics rather than literature was the focus, as one presidential candidate and one critic came to South Bend to make their pitches. 
Noted political commentator William F. Buckley pitched his conservative views to a Stepan Center audience, while Democratic presidential candidate Eugene McCarthy made a South Bend Airport appearance in front of 1,200 supporters. 
April 4, 1968 marked a tragic day in the Civil Rights Movement and American history. The assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. in Memphis that afternoon occurred at approximately the same time that another man, soon to be killed, appeared at Notre Dame. 
Robert Kennedy, two months before his own assassination, campaigned to a crowd of 5,000 at Stepan Center, answering questions for over 40 minutes from an audience made up almost entirely of students. 
A day later, authors Kurt Vonnegut (Slaughterhouse Five) and Ralph Ellison (The Invisible Manl. at the height of their popularity, appeared at Notre Dame. However, few world-renowned creators have recently seen the Notre Dame campus. 
And in 1992, an election year not unlike that of 1968, we may not see one presidential candidate, as our administration apparently struggles to find a commencement speaker. 
If the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's want to make a difference in 1992, the time to call on the great minds of America has nearly passed. We must raise their awareness of Notre Dame, and we must raise our awareness of the world around us. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Production Lisa Bourdon Kristin Lynch  Today's Staff News Paul Pearson Kelly Lynch  
Sports Mike Scrudato  Graphics Brendan Regan  
Accent Paige Smoron Patrick Moran Lab Tech. David Lee  VIewpoint Rich Riley Colleen Gannon Systems Mike Murphy Patrick Barth  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
~---------­
Wednesday, February 19,1992 
FOR!CAIT: 

Cloudy and colder 
.,) ~O:r~~~i~~::~e of 





~~~~~~~· 

© 1992 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
···:·  
.,;':::  City  
Albuquerque  
Atlanta  
Austin  
Balon Rouge  

,::: i !~~ck
:':' g~:~:~~s.c.
-:;:·: 
·.:} ~=E~Ines
iF 
Helena 
Honolulu
._":: ~~.n:~ns 
Juneau 
·.::::: ~~~~£~Paul 
Nashville 
Sacramento 76 57
H  L  
49  27  
51  42  
75  52  


:i E 
~~ :~ 
~~ H 
43 19 81 73
;: ~ 
29 18 
ii ~~ 
55 48 58 45 
Salt Lake City 44 29 Tallahassee 66 54 Topeka 59 43

~ South Bend 41 34 
RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES 
SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIenna 37 28 Washington, D.C. 49 39 
.::::. 

WORLD 

Gorbachev told to get an address 
•MOSCOW -Postal clerks in the Siberian city of Chita have a message for former Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev: Get a mailing address like everyone else. Clerks at Chita's central post office refused to accept a letter from a group of teachers addressed only to "Mikhail Gorbachev, Moscow," the ITAR-Tass news agency reported Tuesday. They insisted that since Gorbachev is now "an ordinary citizen," letters to him should have a detailed address and zip code, the news agency said. The former president and his wife, Raisa, were given a three-room apartment on Kosygina Street near Moscow State University after the Soviet Union's dissolution in December. 


NATIONAL 
School van driver charged with DUI IIJACKSONVILLE, Fla.-The driver of a van for a pri­vate school was arrested and charged with driving under the influence of alcohol after students took the keys away from her. Christine Beaudin was arrested while transporting students to the Bolles School on Monday morning. Harry deMontmollin, the school's president, said 10 students were aboard the van at the time. DeMontmollin said the students first thought the driver was tired, but they became increasingly worried as the van wove in traffic. Other drivers called police from their cellular phones when they saw the van's erratic move­ments, said Asa Higgs, police spokesman. When the van stopped for a red light at an intersection, the students took the keys from the driver, deMontmollin said. Police 

OF INTEREST 
•Government 
Career Day will be held today from noon to 4:00 p.m. at the Center for Continuing Education. All majors are welcome. 

•The 
lecture "African-American Catholics: Looking Ahead," by M. Shawn Copeland of Yale University, scheduled today at 1 p.m. at Saint Mary's College is actually Saturday at 1 p.m. Saint Mary's regrets the error. 

•seniors 
who want to teach in New York next year should come see Sarah Vakbur or Beth Kaiser for more information at the Center for Social Concerns today from 1-3 p.m. 


•women United for Justice and Peace will be 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 18 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX -9­233,783,800 225.65 v 2.51 4]lQ~M%~~----...._s&J COMPOSITE 
407.38 .. 5.10 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,224.73 .. 21.24 
PRECIOUS METALS 

GOLD {} $ .30 to $353.40/oz. 
SILVER. 10¢ to $4.052/oz. 

soon arrived and the woman was arrested. She tested more than 0.20 percent on her blood alcohol test, more than twice the legal limit in Florida, Higgs said. Beaudin, 45, was in her first year as a driver at the school. She was immediately fired. 


CAMPUS 

Hesburgh Program recjeyes grant 
•NOTRE DAME, Ind.-The University of Notre Dame has received a $250,000 grant from Knight Foundation for the Hesburgh Program in Public Service, an inter­disciplinary undergraduate concentration established in 1987 and named in honor of Notre Dame's president emeritus. Established in 1950 by John and James Knight, the Knight Foundation is one of the nation's largest private foundations. It makes national grants in journalism, higher education and the field of arts and culture. It also supports organizations in communities where the Knight brothers were involved in publishing newspapers, but is wholly separate from and independent of those newspapers. 
sponsoring a discussion on relationships led by Jim and Evelyn Whitehead today at 7:30p.m. at the CSC Lounge. 
•Pax 
Christi will meet today at 8:30 p.m. in the esc Chapel. Any questions, phone Paul or George at 283­1672. 

•Morrissey 
Film Festival needs the names of films and directors today. Groups that still want to advertise in the program for February 28th at Stepan Center need to call Brian Shortal at 283-3593. 

•International 
Student's Organization elections will be held Friday in the ISO Lounge (on the second floor of LaFortune) between 2 p.m. and 6 p.m. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1878: Thomas Edison received a patent for his phonograph. 

• 
In 1942: President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed an executive 


order making possible the wartime internment of Japanese­Americans. 
• 
In 1963: The Soviet Union informed President Kennedy it would withdraw "several thousand" of an estimated 17,000 Soviet troops in Cuba. 

• 
In 1986: The Senate passed a resolution declaring the Philippine presidential election had been marked by "widespread fraud." The Senate also approved a treaty outlawing genocide, 37 years after the pact had first been submitted for ratification. 



-~------~--~---­

-----------------------------~--~----------~------------------~~._----~ 
Wednesday, February 19, 1992 The Observer page3 

Observer announces its 1992-93 General Board 
Observer Staff Report 
Observer Editor-in-Chief elect Monica Yant announced Tuesday the selection of the newspaper's 1992-93 General Board. 
The editors and department managers will assume their po­sitions immediately after Spring Break. 
Joining Managing Editor-elect John Rock and Business Manager-elect Rich Riley, the following people were selected for the Editorial Board: 
•David 
Kinney, News Editor. Kinney is a sophomore govern­ment major from Winston­Salem, N.C. He is presently Associate News Editor. 

•Joe 
Moody, Viewpoint Editor. Moody is a junior English major from South Bend. This will be Moody's second year as Viewpoint Editor. 

•Michael 
Scrudato, Sports Editor. Scrudato is a sophomore English/CAPP major from 



Class candidates announced 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL News Writer 
The student government's election committee has released the names of the candidates running in the upcoming class officer election. 
Four slates of candidates are competing to represent next year's Senior Class. One ticket includes Andrea Auyer (presidential candidate), Eric Happel (vice president). Marianne Palabrica (secretary) and Chris Ciervo (treasurer). A second ticket is made up of Tom Fellrath, Kevin Nelson, Tony Luigs and Dianne Simodynes. 
A third ticket consists of Joe Huston, Kelly Fitzpatrick, Anne Marie Krauza, and Joe Burke. The final ticket includes Pat Smyth, Frannie Biolchini, Katie Eusterman and Brian Alesia. 
There will be two tickets com­peting in the Junior Class elec­tion. Dan Connolly, Maura Cavanaugh, David Gene! and Megan Junius will make up one slate. They will be opposed by Steve Tankovich, Tim Mooney, Maren Schulte and Larry Palmer. 
Finally, there will be four tick­ets in the running for Sophomore Class offices. Keary Husain, Steve Armbruster, Matt Jezior, and Abby Sutkus will form one ticket. Lisa Powers, Matt Bosse, Matthew Wood, and Robin Mego will make up a an­other ticket. Andrea Ricker, Jim Penilla, Michael LaMena, and Amy Conolly will be in­cluded in a third ticket. David Sheppard, M. Brian Coughlin, Katie Carey, and Amy Visnosky will round out the field. 
The election will be held on Monday, February 24. On­campus students will be able to vote in their dorms from 11 
a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. on election day. Polls will be open for off-campus students in the dining hall from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., and in LaFortune Student Center from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
If any run-off elections are necessary, they will be held on Wednesday, February 26. 

Bloomfield, N.J. He works in the sports department as a Copy Editor. 
•Jahnelle 
Harrigan, Accent Editor. Harrigan is a junior American studies major from Hopkins, Minn. She currently serves as an Assistant Accent Editor. 

•Marguerite 
Schropp, Photography Editor. Schropp is a junior at Saint Mary's College majoring in bilingual/bicultural elementary education. She is from Trenton, Mich., and cur­rently serves as Saint Mary's Photo Editor. 

•Anna 
Marie Tabor, Saint Mary's Editor. Tabor is a 


sophomore humanistic studies major from Fort Smith, Ark. She is presently Saint Mary's Accent Editor. 
The following managers were selected for the Operations Board: 
•Michael 
Hobbs, Advertising Manager. Hobbs is a junior fi­nance/psychology major from Naperville, Ill. 

•Kevin 
Hardman, Ad Design Manager. Hardman is a sophomore electrical engineer­ing/philosophy major from Cincinnati, Ohio. He is currently Assistant Ad Design Manager. 

•Jeanne 
Blasi, Production Manager. Blasi is a junior 



Time out for the community 
English/CAPP major from Palatine, Ill. She is presently Assistant Production Manager. 
•Patrick 
Barth, Systems Manager. Barth is a sophomore pre-professional stud­ies/communications major from Spokane, Wash. He currently works as a typesetter. 

•Dan 
Shinnick, Observer Typesetting Service (OTS) Director. Shinnick is a junior government major from Dallas, Texas. He has been OTS direc­tor for two years. 

•David 
Beliveau, Controller. Beliveau is a junior account­ing/CAPP major from Salem, N.H. 


The Observer/Meg Kowalski 

Carrie Colby, a sophomore, tutors children at YMCA. She volunteers every Tuesday and Thursday as a part of a Center for Social Concerns project. 
EAT PIZZA, GET EXERCISE, and HELP THE HOMELESS 
,--; ,4()()'J:: '?t»i: S1t;'n-UP S~&&7S 11t 1/~ 'D~ ~ 
Domino's Pizza and the Center for the Homeless are offering a free pizza party to groups of students who donatel-1/2 hours on a Saturday afternoon to distribute coupon/flyers around South Bend. 
Groups of about 10 needed on: 
Sat. Feb. 22 Sat. March 21. Sat. Feb. 29 Sat. March 28 
For additional information, contact: Maggie Walsh 283-4012 Julie Bradley 283-4766 239-7668 
If you have a group ready, call John Whalen (282-8700) at the Center for the Homeless directly. 





®~ill&~ @~~.BGtp 
CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS 

------------~------------------~·--~-----------------­
page4 The Observer Wednesday, February 19, 1992 

Irish leaders will discuss abortion ban 
DUBLIN, Ireland (AP) ­Political leaders agreed Tuesday to review a constitu­tional ban on abortions, as anger grew over the case of a 14-year-old girl barred from seeking an abortion in Britain. 
Prime Minister Albert Reynolds did not suggest a course of action, but invited opposition leaders to discuss the issue generally rather than "the special and tragic circum­stances of the case." 
High Court Judge Declan Costello ruled Monday that Ireland's constitution left him no choice but to bar the girl from seeking an abortion in Britain -although she says she was raped by her best friend's father after a year of 
molestation and has threatened to kill herself rather than give 
The Observer/Kristina Roderick 

A taste of Rome 
birth. 
A sign advertising the ongoing Expo Roma hangs from the arch of 
It is the first time authorities the Architecture Building. 
have tried to prevent a woman 

DeBartolo 
continued from page 1 
Moore would not speculate about the consequences of such a move. "We'll have to see what the situation is," he said. 
The DeBartolo Classroom Facility, which is about 85 per­cent complete, is scheduled to open before the 1992 Fall Semester, according to Donald Dedrick, director of the physi­cal plant. The Center for the Performing Arts remains in the planning stages, and is not scheduled to be completed until early 1996, Dedrick said. 
He said that there has been no discussion of the possibility of halting construction of either of the two buildings. 
DeBartolo is one of many vic­tims of the collapsed commer­cial real-estate market that could force his corporation to sell many assets, including a partial-ownership of the San Francisco 49ers NFL team and numerous race tracks, shop­ping malls and office buildings, according to the Journal. 
Under the plan. DeBartolo's banks will get first and second mortgages on many assets that are not sold. In return, the banks will agree to suspend principal payments on much of 
~<>-0-.o-G""<?"<::">-<><.~~~0<:>-<><>~~...,., # 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 

by THORNTON WILDER Directed by Mark Pilkinton Wednesday Feb. 19, 8:10pm 
Washington Hall Thursday Feb. 20,8:10 pm 
Reserved seats: $7 
Friday Feb. 21, 8:1 opm 
Student and senior citizen discounts
Saturday Feb. 22, 8:10pm 
are available for Wednesday,
Sunday Feb. 23, 3:10 pm 
Thursday and Sunday performances. 
Tickets are availableat the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Off1ce. MasterCard and Visa Orders: call 239-8128 
his $4.04 billion of debt for about two and a half years. By 

Politics could dictate peace talks' direction 
selling mortgaged assets, 

JERUSALEM (AP) -Israel's
DeBartolo could reduce his 

two main political parties facedebt and free cash to make in­
leadership battles this week
terest payments. 

that are likely to determine the future of Middle East peace
He has denied that he is 

talks.
working to ease a cash crunch To the left, Yitzhak Rabin, ain his real-estate holdings. A 

former defense minister and
corporate spokesman contacted 

general, will try to unseat
last week would not discuss the 

Shimon Peres as chairman of
reports in The Wall Street 

the Labor Party.
Journal, and she could not be Rabin hopes to grab votes

reached for comment 

from the conservative center,yesterday. 
and his supporters believe heThe family-owned corpora­
may have a better chance of
tion owns, in whole or in part, getting them than Peres, whose

73 regional malls, 19 strip 

best showing in five nationalshopping centers, eight office elections has been a tie.
buildings. three racetracks and On the right, Prime Ministervast other properties. Among Yitzhak Shamir is up for re­the holdings of the Youngstown, election as leader of the Likud

Ohio, corporation are 

bloc, where he's won a reputa­
University Park Mall in 

tion as a hard-liner in negotia­
Mishawaka and part of the 

tions with the Arabs.
Orchards Mall near Benton 

He faces a challenge from hisHarbor. 
foreign minister, David Levy, 
DeBartolo, who was esti­mated to be worth $2 billion 

last year by Fortune magazine, #*******************************************~ 
remains optimistic about the 

* 
future. "I think there is a great 

* 
potential for the economy of the 

* 
world and this country." he 

#
said, "and I want to be here when it happens." 

* 
The Wall Street Journal and ** the South Bend Tribune con­
* 
tributed to this story. 

# 
*
* 
* 
*
* *
*
*
* *
* 
* 
* 
:
* 
*
*
* 
* 
*
: 
I 
** *
* * 
~be n1n~b Annua1 -*** 
.

tu1n~eRPes~ J # 
*
*
* 

Friday, February 21 * 
CampuS-Wide # Bkating Pa:r t ~ # 
10:30-12:30 at the J.A.CC. ** 2Sc skate rentals * 
FREE HOT CHOCOLATE!! * 
·• & *
We rurrve the right to exercise crowd control. 
* 

Saturday and Sunday * February 22-23 * 
* 

Ski Trip * 
to * 
Cabt!orfae S'ki Beso-rt #* 
Package includes: * 
•Overnight accommodations at the Days Inn 
*

•Free Continental Breakfast (Sunday AM)
•Discount on Ski Rentals * *
•Two-day lift ticket 

* ONLY $65!! *# Sign·ups for the * 
:Callb>i!'!n.ll<t! srd -rn-::o * 
will be at the Student Gover~ment * Receptionist's Desk (BARB) * Any questions?? Call 239-7668 * 
.,.,·,~······ 

who believes Israel can afford to be more generous in the peace talks, and from his hous­ing minister, Ariel Sharon, who wants to abandon the talks and is leading the drive for more Israeli settlements in the occu­pied lands. 
The Labor contest is Wednesday, and the Likud vote a day later. 
Shamir, 76, commands sweeping support among the party's 2,800 central committee members and can expect an easy win. But the outcome of the Labor Party's vote is less certain. 
In the Labor race, pollsters give a slight edge to Rabin, prime minister from 1974 to 1977. 
They say that Labor under Rabin will stand a better chance of defeating Shamir's from having an abortion in Britain -a path taken by about 4,000 Irish women in 1990. However, the case may not have a significant effect on that practice. 
Ireland, more than 90 percent Roman Catholic, has the strictest abortion law in Europe, permitting only a "morning-after pill" that will terminate a pregnancy within 72 hours of intercourse. 
Addressing the Dail, the lower house of Parliament, at the end of his first week in office, Reynolds expressed sympathy for the girl and her family. 
But he said Attorney General Harry Whelehan viewed it as his duty to take any steps nec­essary to protect the fetus. 
"I do not believe that the people of this country want, or deserve, a situation of nods and winks in the application of the law," Reynolds said. 
right-wing Likud, or at least emerging strong enough to be invited into Shamir's Cabinet. 
Once in the government, Labor can force the hard-line Shamir into being more flexible in negotiations with the Arabs. and into slowing his ambitious drive to settle Jews in the occu­pied territories. 
Ordinarily, Israeli liberals would prefer Peres. They con­sider him more expert at nego­tiating with the Arabs, while remembering Rabin with dis­taste as the defense minister who told his troops "to break the bones" of Palestinians riot­ing against the Israeli occupa­tion. 
But several prominent mod­erates have overcome their sen­sitivities and endorsed Rabin, arguing that much as they like Peres, they believe he stands no chance of winning power. 
An anti-abortion amendment to the constitution was ap­proved by 2-1 in a 1983 refer­endum. 
Workers Party leader Proinsias de Rossa called for a new referendum. 
The family's decision to seek a legal abortion in Britain came to the attention of authorities when the family asked police whether to obtain tissue sam­ples from the fetus for use in possible criminal proceedings over the rape charge. 
The Irish Times said in an ed­itorial, "What has been done to this Irish Republic, what sort of state has it become that in 1992, its full panoply of author­ity, its police, its law officers, its courts are mobilized to con­demn a 14-year-old child to the ordeal of pregnancy and child­birth at the hands of A 'depraved and evil man'?" 

*******************************************; 

Wednesday, February 19, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Kmiec argues case against abortion 
SEMIFINAL$ o:· SCHEDULE .·
Fe6r\Jarygsx >·-? 
GraceAils. Alumni · St. Ed's vs. qtt~campus 

By LAUREN AQUINO 
Assistant News Editor 
Until the court recognizes the personhood of the unborn, un­born life will still be unpro­tected, according to Professor Doug Kmiec. 
The Supreme Court case Casey vs. Planned Parenthood will not change this situation, he said. 
Kmiec spoke Tuesday in the Law School courtroom on "Casey vs. Planned Parenthood: Will Roe be overturned and will it matter?" 
Roe vs. Wade made it possible for women to have abortion on demand, as long as the mother's health is not in jeop­ardy. The problem here is that the word health becomes am­biguous, said Kmiec. It can re­fer to physical, emotional, or psychological well being, he added. The place to draw the line is too unclear. 
Kmiec also claims Roe acted out of "selfishness and conve­nience." Her priorities were not grounded in the family, he said, and therefore her right to 
The Observer/Kristina Roderick 
From left to right, John Engels, Sonia Gernes and Ernest Sandeen comprised the panel for Tuesday's lecture entitled "Poetry at Notre Dame." 
the not for profit 



sector 
arts humanities 

privacy could not have been violated. 
The notion that Roe fought for the right to choose is actually a "mis-characterization," according to Kmiec. She was only fighting for the right to kill a child since her initial decision to make a child had already been made, he explained. 
The view that abortion is a gender-specific issue "ultimately fails" because abortion is gender neutral, said Kmiec. Also, men and women are dissimilar in nature, he added, and the law is not going to be able to change that. Men cannot get pregnant, and no court case is will be able to make men and women com­pletely similar, said Kmiec. 
In the state of Pennsylvania a minor needs the informed con­sent of at least one parent to obtain an abortion. The prob­lem with this is that it is possi­ble to get a judicial bypass, said Kmiec. It is possible for the young mother to convince the judge that her parents do not need to know, he added. All she has to do is convince the court that it is in her best interest not to tell her parents, said Kmiec, be it personal safety or psycho­logical reasons. 
Kmiec discussed Pennsylvania's Spousal Notice Regulation, which states that a pregnant woman must obtain a signed statement from her hus­band before the abortion. There are four exceptions to this rule: 
•the 
husband is not the fa­ther; 

•she 
can't find the husband; 

•the 
pregnancy was due to sexual assault; and 

•the 
husband is likely to in­flict bodily harm on her. 


Because approximately 95 percent would voluntarily tell their husbands anyway, and the remaining five percent inost likely fall into the four excep­tions, the Spousal Notice Regulation is no obstacle, Kmiec said. 
Life of unborn children will still not be secure after Casey vs. Planned Parenthood, said Kmiec. "We will still be far from our moral destination," he added. 
Poets with ND connections share works with students 
By MATT CARBONE 
News Writer 
ND undergraduate English students in 1950, "were con­vinced, as poets. that we were the next closest things to priests and prophets," said John Engels, one of the speak­ers Tuesday at the lecture, "Poetry at Notre Dame." 
Engels, a professor of English for 30 years at Saint Michael's College in Vermont and 1952 graduate of Notre Dame, spoke of his passion for poetry and literature at an early age. 
He told of how he switched majors at ND from architecture to English, and how he was "appreciative ... of Notre Dame for beginning things for me." 
Engels will receive the Sesquicentennial Poetry Prize Wednesday in the Library Audi­torium at 7:30p.m. 

Career and Volunteer Opportunities 
•


tn Nonprofit Organizations 
The decision, the jobs, the rewards and drawbacks, the salaries 
• A fonner volunteer and nonprofit sector employee will share her experiences and suggestions 
Next was Sonia Gernes, pro­fessor of English at Notre Dame since 1975. Like Engels, she, too has been recognized for excellence; in Gernes' case, it was with an award for her distinguished teaching in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Gernes said that "each poet at Notre Dame is particu­lar... this is what brings the richness to their poetry." 
She described how she was hired to teach at ND in 1975 as a poet, but how she continually worked on both poetry and prose, trying to "blend the lyric and the narrative" in both her teaching and in her published works. 
The third speaker was Ernest Sandeon, another published poet and teacher of English. He described how students he has taught have been returning decades later, renewing and deepening the friendships that they once had together. 
All three read from their published works as part of the latest lecture in the "Sesquicentennial Series: Traditions of Learning at Notre Dame." This series, one part of the University's Sesquicenten­nial celebration, is designed to highlight the past and present excellence in Notre Dame aca­demics. 
John Matthias was unable to attend due to illness, so James Walton, associate professor of English at Notre Dame, read one of Matthias' poems as a tribute. 
Besides being the mediator of this lecture, Walton is also the editor of "the space between: Poets from Notre Dame, 1950­1990," a collection of poems by these and other Notre Dame poets which is now available in the bookstore. 
civic & public groups 

Thursday, February 20 
conununity services education 

4:30 --5:30 p.m. 
environmental health care/hospitals The Center For Social Concerns 
religion social services etc. Paula Cook, Career and Placement Services Mary Ann Roemer, The Center For Social Concerns 
Correction 
The wrong photograph was 

run with a story about a lecture by James VanderKam in Friday's Observer. The man pictured was James Follain of Syracuse University. The Observer regrets the error. 
page 6 
HPC talks on election policies 
By BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 
Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) 
will ask individual residence 
halls to review their election 
policies upon request of several 
council members in Tuesday's 
meeting. 
Knott Hall president Maureen Connelly and Greg Butrus, Stanford Hall president, noted that during the recent student body elections posters were torn down and prank phone calls were made. 
Elections "shouldn't become a 
personal thing where people at­
tack you," said Butrus. 
Flanner Hall co-president Rich Delevan suggested that hall judicial boards could be used to enforce election rules. lie added, "the system for elec­tions could stand some scrutiny." 
Student Activities Director Joe Cassidy also announced a recruitment fair to be held Tuesday, March 25, at 4 p.m. in LaFortune for all those inter­ested in obtaining LaFortune building management positions. Seven positions are available including sound technicians, in­formation desk attendants, game room monitors and building managers. Applications may be picked up at the LaFortune information desk and are due Feb. 28. 
Kathryn Pamenter also an­nounced the schedule for Sesquicentennial Student Week to be held March 17 through 
21. 
•Monday: 
St. Patrick's Day, no events scheduled. 

•Tuesday: 
"Ice cream Olympics" where freshmen and sophomores will compete against juniors and seniors to first devour a large ice cream sundae. 

•Wednesday: 
Lou Holtz will give a motivational lecture at 7 


p.m. in Stepan Center. 
•Thursday: 
All night movies in Stepan Center starting at 9 p.m. 

•Friday: 
Naz battle of the the bands, 7 p.m. to 12 midnight. 






Primary 
continued from page 1 
with  the  vote  still  being  
counted.  
Democratic  National  
Chairman Ronald  Brown said  

the New Hampshire results put Bush "in incredible peril." "George Bush is a one-term president," he said. 
Clinton told his supporters in Merrimack that he "just can't wait to take this campaign across the country ... and I know ... in November we are going to win a great victory ­against Pat Buchanan." 
Partial returns showed Buchanan running at about the pace Sen. Eugene McCarthy polled in 1968, when he cap­tured 42 percent of the Democratic primary vote against President Lyndon Johnson, who announced about three weeks later that he would not seek re-election. 
Two subsequent presidents who lost substantial shares of the New Hampshire primary vote lost the following fall ­Gerald Ford, who edged Ronald Reagan in the 1976 primary 50 percent to 49 per­cent; and Jimmy Carter, who topped Sen. Edward Kennedy in 1980, 47 percent to 37 percent. 
The Observer 


Hitting the books 

Janet Knight, a sophomore, smiles as she prepares for a hard night of studying in the Hesburgh Library. 

fans oi'Debbie.'Gibson)! 
-ritr:OORA. 
.1;.1 +FOR TBE + MACINTOSH 
TRIPOLI, Libya (AP) -A judge today rejected U.S. and British demands for the extra­dition of two Libyans charged in the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103. 
Foreign journalists invited to Libya's capital to attend a pub­lic hearing on the case were in­stead only shown the two sus­pects and prohibited from ask­ing them any questions. One of the men told reporters they were innocent. 
Judge Ahmed el-Tahir al­Zawi, who is heading the Libyan investigation, told re­porters there would be no pub­lic hearing. "According to Libyan law, it is forbidden to make an investigation public," he said. 
The United States and Britain have charged that the two men are Libyan intelligence agents who planted the bomb that blew up the New York-bound jetliner over Lockerbie, Scotland, and killed 270 people in December 1988. 
The U.N. Security Council demanded last week that Libya surrender the two men, Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah. It also demanded four other Libyans be turned over to France to face charges in the bombing of a UTA plane over Africa in 1989 that killed 170 people. 
Western nations have raised the possibility of economic sanctions if Libya defies the resolution. The United States 
and Britain also have not ruled 
out military action. 
In Washington, State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said, "We do"n't put much faith or cre­dence in what a Libyan judge might say. We think that a Libyan investigation or a hear­ing is a travesty of justice, amounts to nothing more than another attempt by Libya to delay and to evade its responsi­bility." 
The judge insisted that under Libyan law the two suspects in the Lockerbie case could not be extradited for trial outside Libya. 
"If convicted in a Libyan court and it is proven they blew up the airplane, with the intention of killing those aboard, the penalty of the Libyan court is absolutely severe. It is death," al-Zawi said. 
Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi has denied the two men are government agents or were involved in the bombing. He has vowed not to hand them over to the United States or Britain, but has proposed a trial before an international body such as the World Court at The Hague, Netherlands. 
The French case was not mentioned at the news confer­ence. 
Al-Megrahi and Fhimah ar­rived at the Supreme Court building in a caravan of five police cars. Each was escorted past reporters by two police­men armed with AK-47 rifles. 

Wednesday, February 19, 1992 
Judge will not extradite alleged Libyan hijackers 
SHOULD THERE BE. A 
CULTURAL DIVERSITY REQUIREMENT 
IN THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS? 
Students and faculty are cordially invited to an open forum to discuss the curricular aspects of cultural diversity. 
Thursday, February 20, 1992 
7:30 p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge 
-~----~~---------~--~----~------~--------. 
Wednesday, February 19, 1992 The Observer page 7 

U.S., Russian subs collide 

WASHINGTON (AP} -The Navy said Tuesday that one of its nuclear-powered attack submarines was hit, but appar­ently not damaged, by a Russian sub last week in the Arctic Ocean. 
U.S. officials said they weren't sure which vessel was at fault, but beyond the issue of blame lay a broader question: If the former Soviet Union is no longer a threat to U.S. security, why are American subs still prowling its coastline? 
Pentagon officials said the USS Baton Rouge, a Los Angeles-class attack submarine whose home port is Norfolk, Va., was on a routine patrol in the Barents Sea at the time of the collision, but they would not discuss its mission or exact lo­cation. 
There was no report of nu­clear contamination in the area of the accident. 
Private U.S. analysts said it seemed likely the Baton Rouge was on a reconnaissance mis­sion and some questioned the need for continued U.S. surveil­lance of Russian waters at a time of dramatically improved political relations. 
"The question is, why are we doing this kind of operation now? The Cold War is supposed to be over," said James Bush, a retired Navy captain and sub­mariner. "They really haven't adjusted to the fact that the Cold War is over." 

Adm. Frank Kelso II, the Navy's top uniformed officer as chief of naval operations, adamantly refused to discuss the incident. But he stressed that the U.S. fleet would con­tinue to operate as usual in in­ternational waters. 
"The seas are free for every­body to operate in -ours, theirs, everybody else's," Kelso said in an interview with the AP. "I don't think anything is going to change that. 
"We've had that feeling since the beginning of this country that we could move our ships and forces wherever we felt we needed to move them. That's what John Paul Jones got his name for -driving ships in places of the world where peo­ple might not have expected American ships to go. I don't think this incident is going to change that." 
American officials have ac­knowledged that Soviet sub­marines no longer patrol regu­larly off the U.S. Atlantic shore. 
The Defense Department said that the accident occurred Feb. 11, and that it waited a week to disclose it because Secretary of State James Baker wanted to discuss it with Russian President Boris Yeltsin before the announcement. 
"Given the change in the na­ture of the relationship between Russia and the United States, we thought it best to notify Boris Yeltsin," the department said in a brief statement. 
Bob Hall, a Pentagon spokesman, said he believed it was the first time the depart­ment has announced a subma­rine collision, although this was not the first involving U.S. and Russian vessels. He said the mishap was disclosed in this case "because of the unusual nature of this incident." 
Bush and others said it ap­pears the U.S. Navy intends to continue its monitoring of the Russian Navy out of concern about political instability in the former Soviet republics and to watch disarmament moves. 
Violence kills five in India on day before state elections 
AMRITSAR, India (AP} -The fear of death hung over Punjab on Tuesday on the eve of state legislative elections seen as a crucial battle between Sikh separatism and Indian unity. 
Sikh gunmen opened fire Tuesday at a campaign gather­ing in southern Punjab, killing five people in what appeared to be a grim warning to prospec­tive voters, whom the militants have threatened to kill. 
"It is a fight between bullet and ballot," said Avtar Singh, a store owner in Amritsar, the Sikh holy city and center of the decade-old Sikh separatism. A 

SOCIAL WORK CAREER AND EDUCATION FAIR 
WHEN: Feb. 20th 

WHERE: Saint Mary's College, LeMans Lobby 
TIME: 11:00 AM-4:00 PM 

(18 Agencies Represented) Looking for information about Social Service jobs? 
When the Great 

American Dream isn't great enough 
bomb exploded in the city late Tuesday, wounding at least two people. 
Most of the state's 11 million voters obeyed the militants' call for a two-day general strike Tuesday, and were expected to stay away from the polls. 
But observers say even a 30 percent turnout will vindicate the government's efforts to run the election. In past elections, turnout was around 60 percent. 
"This is your chance to tell the militants that they cannot break up the nation," said a broadcaster on state television. 
The Sikhs, who constitute barely 2 percent of India's 844 million, say the Hindu-majority nation denies them cultural freedom and the full wealth of their land. Sikhs hold a slight majority in Punjab, a rich farming state. 
Voters will choose a new 117­seat state assembly for the first 
OBCJAPAN 
OBC English Conversation School is offering full time teaching positions beginning in July 1992. Excellent working conditions, benefits, and salary Open to ALL majors. Career and Placement Services February 24, 25, 26 
time since the last assembly was dismissed in 1987 and re­placed by direct federal rule. They will also choose Punjab's 13 representatives to the na­tional Parliament. 
The elections were scheduled for last June, when voting took place in the rest of the nation, but the Congress Party called them off after at least 27 can­didates were assassinated. 
Many observers see this elec­tion as the turning point in tackling demands for secession. 
But most major Sikh political parties are boycotting the elec­tions, saying the new govern­ment will not reflect the peo­ple's aspirations because of the level of fear. Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao's Congress Party faces a motley group of communists, independents, Hindu fundamentalists and a moderate Sikh party. 
More than 250,000 security personnel have been deployed to guard polling stations and candidates. 
Last year, 5,842 militants, police and civilians were killed in Punjab. This year's toll al­ready exceeds 350. 
Have you considered THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385  ~_, ~ ~~~ ~ IJ ~:f.'.., ~~ ~~~ ~ ~~e '0'?~, ~ ....I .....~a•lf._.,.,..t,,D· ~..........,.., "SING-A-LONG" Ramada Inn ­South Bend --b TONIGHT••_ YOU ARE THE STARir  

r-----------------------------------------------­
pageS The Observer 

The Observer/Meg Kowalskl 

Molding clay 
Junior Maria Pugliese works on a coil pot for her ceramics class. Hand building of this sort is a precursor 


Debates 
continued from page 1 
in response to some judges not being able to go to the debate. None of the dorms used this option. 
At the first preliminary round on Feb. 4th, four out of the eleven dorms only had one judge for their debates. Listerman, who is in charge of scheduling judges, said that she did not have a good feel for judges who would commit and there may have been miscom­munication. 
According to Listerman, it was difficult to get schedules out on such a short notice. John Mulhern. Pangborn's team captain, said, "The posting of the rounds seemed unorganized and we received them later than we usually do." 
The second preliminary round on Feb. 8th, the rounds had enough judges thanks to law students stepping in. 
A cloud of vagueness arose at the third preliminary round on Feb. 12th. An optional round was introduced this year to ac­commodate the lack of judges, said Listerman. It would not be a disadvantage if teams chose not to participate in this round, she said. 
On Feb. 12th, three dorms, who initially had agreed to par­ticipate in this round, forfeited by not showing up. 
Listerman said that she ex­plained the policy about the optional meeting during both preliminary meetings held be­fore the debates. The team cap­tain members were required to go to these meetings. 
But some of the team cap­tains still did not understand the policy. " I did not under­stand what it meant and it was confusing.". said Mulhern. Dave Certo, Alumni's team captain, said after last Tuesday's debate, " I still do not understand the idea of the optional round." 
Garcia admits," It was kind of rough at first to organize items because last year's committee had left their notes in an unorganized box." She wishes that the committee had been brought together sooner. 
Listerman suggested that those who had helped the committee may have had a mis­communication problem. Last December, the committee asked HPC for their dorms' entry fees and rosters. Listerman said that up until the first debate, some members had just given the entry fees. 
She added that they had not received all rosters as of this week. 
Judges are not allowed to confer on their decisions. "The role of the moderator, at the rounds, were to keep the judges separate as they decided their decision.", said Garcia. 
At Tuesday's quarterfinal rounds, Garcia noticed that some of the judges had con­ferred with each other about their decision. She pointed out that not only had the modera­tors known this but it was in the handbook and instructions. 
Team captains Certo and Mulhern both said that it seemed that advertising was not as extensive this year. Garcia said that ads were vir­tually the same but they chose to eliminate table tents. 
"We are here for students to learn about new platforms and to allow them to voice their opinions.", stated Garcia. 
But Rich Delevan, Flanner's team captain, said, "I think the Iceberg debates have been hurt as a tradition." 

In the United States, he said, 20 percent of the people control 40 percent of the wealth and 20 percent splits 1 percent. The remainder divide the middle 59 percent. 
Hewitt gave one player in each game $5,100, three play­ers $2,500 and one player $150. In a regular Monopoly game, players start with $1,500 each. 
Also, instead of rolling dice to determine the first player, the rich people went first. All play­ers could buy property immedi­ately and begin building houses without first establishing a monopoly. 
It didn't take long for some to go broke. Some lasted just one roll. 
~---------­
Wednesday, February 19, 1992 

Army faces severe housing shortage 
FORT STEWART, Ga. (AP) ­German-born Claudia Perez thought a trailer was some­thing for a camping trip until her husband, an Army sergeant, was transferred from Frankfurt to Georgia and they had to live in one. 
Defense cutbacks, the return of thousands of troops from Europe and a tight housing market brought on by the buildup to the Persian Gulf War have left families at Army posts around the country settling for less-than-ideal accommodation. 
"Right now I could probably rent a lean-to if I could find one," said Marvin Chewning, property manager for the Century 21 real estate office in Hopkinsville, Ky., 14 miles north of Fort Campbell. 
At Fort Stewart in southeast Georgia, home of the 24th Infantry Division, a unit that played a key role in Desert Storm, apartment complexes and mobile home parks are jammed. Some soldiers have to live more than 40 miles away. 
The wife of Sgt. Enrique Perez of Chicago said she was shocked when the family of four arrived from Germany in December and her husband said they might have to live in a mobile home. Germans use small travel trailers known as wohnwagens for camping, but not 60-foot-long mobile homes. 
"I didn't know what a trailer was," Mrs. Perez said. "He said, 'It's like a wohnwagen, only bigger.' I said, 'I'm not going into a wohnwagen.~ 
The couple, and their children Tatjana, 6, and Alexander, 2, moved into a trailer park that has dirt roads. 
Perez is No. 745 on a waiting list of 1,885 specialists and sergeants who have applied for on-post housing. About 5,200 soldiers of all ranks are on waiting lists and face a one­year to two-year wait for 2,500 government houses, apart­
ments and mobile homes, offi­cials said. The shortage stems from sev­eral factors: 
• 
Units such as the 24th were brought up to full strength during the Persian Gulf crisis. Transfers and discharges were halted and it will take several months to return to pre-war levels. 

• 
The Army is bringing thou­sands of soldiers back .from Europe. Troop strength in Europe will be cut from 213,000 to 92,000 by 1993; overall strength will drop from 741,000 soldiers before Desert Storm to 535,000 by 1995, said Maj. Rick Thomas, an Army spokesman in Washington. 

• 
Some posts, such as Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind., will close because of a reduction in defense spending. The transfer of soldiers from those posts may temporarily cause housing shortages at other installations. 


"We're in the middle of all of it happening at one time," Thomas said. "We'll have short­term surges that will strain housing capability." 
Six hundred soldiers, with some 300 spouses and 300 to 500 children, arrived at Fort Stewart from Germany in November and December, said 
Capt.  Steve  Hart,  a  post  
spokesman.  
Fort Stewart and  Hunter  

Army Airfield in Savannah were already at 120 percent strength with 21,900 soldiers because of Desert Storm. The two installations had 18,300 soldiers before the war. 
"We came back with a huge number of soldiers," Hart said. "It takes the personnel system a while to transfer those sol­diers or process those soldiers for discharge." 

DuBOIS, Pa. (AP) -A sociol­ogy instructor found an easy way to teach his students they can't live a Park Place lifestyle on a Baltic Avenue salary. 
Thomas Hewitt had 50 stu­dents at Pennsylvania State University's DuBois campus play Monopoly -but instead of starting out evenly, a fifth were given the handicap of being poor and another fifth the ben­efits of being rich. 
"We found out what we al­ready suspected -the rich get richer and the poor get poorer," said Douglas Sversko, a freshman from Brockway. 
"I was trying to make it somewhat more realistic," said Hewitt, who has used the game in class for three years. "I was thinking there ought to be something to illustrate that we don't start life even." 


~­







Viewpoint 
Wednesday, February 19, 1992 page 9 



P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 

News Editor •............•••.••.•.• Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor ................•. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor .••.•••••••....David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor...••.••.•••........ John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

EDITORIAL 
Rhattigan gets vote ... with reservations 

The three tickets running for the offices of Saint Mary's student body president and vice president debated Mondaynight, and of these three, the ticket led by Colleen Rhattigan deserves your vote primarily because of their vast experience in Student Government. 
However, we hope they were paying attention at the debate: Their opponents had fresh Ideas and enthusiasm that the Rhattigan ticket lacked. Unfortunately, the overall balance of these tickets was too weak to merit an endorsement. 
Katie Damm showed tremendous energy in her presentation and goals. She believes strongly in the pride of Saint Mary's and the potential of the students. However, the ticket lacked unity, and her running mates appeared weak beside her. Tina Carrara's ticket also displayedenthusiasm and commitment. The ticket's hmited experience, though, showed in several naive proposals. 
Rhattigan's ticket offers a strong background in student government. Rhattigan has served three years on the Board of Governance in addition to holding class offices for two years. Martha Marzolf and Ann Grant have also been actively involved in campus organizations and held class offices. 
They have proposed several concrete goals for the upcoming year. Security issues include a safety map, seminars on such concerns as date rape and self defense and separate phone lines for information and security. 
To improve the quality of student life, proposals will be made for cable television, video rental service and a campus information and calendar board. Academically, the Rhattigan ticket hopes to improve library conditions, implement final exam study days and strengthen the ties o academic clubs. 
While we commend the experience and goals of the Rhattigan ticket, we endorse them with reservations and challenge them to act aggressively in the best interest of the students. Although they have committed themselves to listen;ng to student concerns, they need to show the student body that they will act for change. 
These candidates carry impressive resumes and a platform of current student government endeavors, but lack enthusiasm for innovation and change. If the ticket incorporates fresh ideas and pro-active goals into their agenda, Rhattigan, Marzolf and Grant might be able to make the difference that Saint Mary's needs. 
Damm/Ehret/Kwiatkowski 

April Ehret, Katie Damm, Jonna Kwiatkowski 
Statement 
Saint Mary's is at a cross­roads. We have to decide whether to accept declining en­rollment, unsatisfactory dorm life and limited social actiVities on our campus or to recapture pride in Saint Mary's. We offer the energetic leadership and fresh perspective needed to guide our school in this direc­tion. 
We believe student government should not only involve holding past positions, but the daily interaction between students, faculty, and the administration. It is essential for student leaders to be in touch with their peers so that we may respond actively and accurately to their changing needs. 
Our platform issues have evolved from this philosophy since they address points of dissatisfaction on campus. These issues must be addressed. If ignored, they will further corrode the pride of Saint Mary's College which is an integral part of our tradition of excellence. 
We realize this is a huge responsibility and we are confident we can meet the chal­lenge. We are excited and ready to begin the process of change Vital to growth as women. It is our goal to ignite a stronger sense of pride in Saint Mary's College. 
Our student body is ready to move forward, all we need is the encouragement and the means. This is what we are committed to, because it's time for a change. 
1) Create and offer a wnrnAn Issues course to fulfill an ing Area I core requirement COJ.U'agillg greateti11Dif1AJ'SULnCI!•I ing of· the brip women's education. 

The Viewpoint page welcomes your letters and columns on a variety of issues. If your tongue is troubled and you have something to say, simply send your written thoughts to The Observer. Our office is located on the third floor of LaFortune, or send them to: 
Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 



1992 SMC STUDENT BODY ELECTIONS 
page 10 Wednesday, February 19, 1992 

------~~~~--~~--~~~--~------~============ 
Rhattigan/Marzolf/Grant 
Profile 
Student Body President: Major: Nursing 
Colleen Rhattigan Year in School: 1994 Residence: LeMans Hall Experience: Vice President of Major: Finance/Marketing the Sophomore Class. Member Year in School: 1993 of the Sesquicentennial Experience: Vice President of Committee, Student 
Academic Affairs & College Representative on the Long Relations. Chairwoman of the Range Planning Committee Student Academic Council, 3· Public Relations, Active year Voting Member of Board of Member of the Adopt-A-Nun Governance, Student Program, Member of the Representative on Academic Student Nursing Association Curriculum Committee, Student Representative on Academic Three Goals for 1992·93: Affairs Task Force, President Sophomore Class, President of 1) To improve safety on Freshman Class campus through implementing 
measures such as a Vice President Student Security/Info Line and a AITairs: Martha Marzolf continueance of Date Rape 
Residence: LeMans Hall Seminars for the Student Body.
What can we, the Rhattigan­as gain insight into the various credited security and self-de­Major: Marketing, Marzolf-Grant ticket do for roles of Student Government. fense seminars led by SMC Management 2) Academic reforms you, the student body of Saint Also, we will conduct Student Security & South Bend Police. 
Year in School: 1993 includmg study daysa beforeMary's College? As Saint Body Open Forums, in which Also, we propose to create two Experience: President of the finals, community ser viceMary's Mission "promotes a pertinent issues will be raised separate Security and 
Junior Class, One of the projects for credit, and the
life of intellectual vigor, and addressed. Information lines, so that stu­Chairwomen of the Student reintroduction of the Alumnaeaesthetic appreciation, dents in emergency situations, Alliance for Women's Colleges, Speakers' Series. 
religious sensibility, and social Dealing with safety on and will not be denied immediate Voting Member of the Board ofresponsibility," we, as Student off-campus, we have help. 
Governance, Student 3) Changes in the Haggar
Body Officers, am dedicat11d to developed a strong program to Representative on the Long College Center beginning with amaking this mission a reality. provide a safe environment for Dedicated to the personal 
Range Planning Committee, Video Vending Machine,
As last y11ar was actually the all. We will provide all and social growth of its Vice President Regina Hall campuswide Info and Calendarfirst year in which the newly students with a Saint students, we will create a Wall Board, increased selectionstructur11d Student Mary's/South Bend Community more appealing campus Vice President of Academic at the Snack Bar, a student
Government changes took Safety Map. This map will student life, and propose 
Affairs: Ann Grant suggestion box., and cableeffect. we have adapted well, highlight the high crime areas providing cable in all resi­Residence: McCandless Hall television.
and feel confident to begin on campus, as well as off dence halls as well as Haggar critically examining this campus and what we, as College Center. Also, we will library hours to 2 a.m. and Also, by working with the structure, to ensure continued students. can do to safeguard install a video vending providing better lighting will Publicity Task Force, we can success in the future. We plan ourselves. machine or create a video improve the current study strengthen the ties of the on utilizing policy committees library in Haggar, so that condition. Academic Clubs on campus to meet the changing needs of This effort will be a students are not forced to go When striving to attain aca­and increase the attendance of the student body. collaborative one between the off-campus in order to rent demic excellence, the their events. 
Because your voice must be SMC Security and the South movies. Rhattigan-Marzolf-Grant ticket heard, our Student Bend Police, to create greater Creating a campus wide proposes study days before fi­Our own conviction of a Government meetings will be overall safety awareness. After information & Calendar Board nals, which means cancelling women's college education is conducted in each of your last year's successful imple­will also provide the on and at least Friday's classes. We exemplified by our combined residence halls periodically, so mentation of the date rape off-campus students more also want to offer community past experience. The that you can discuss your seminar during Freshman insight into campus service projects for credit and Rhattigan-Marzolf-Grant ticket concerns with the Student Orientation, we plan to con­programming at a central re-introduce the Alumnae is dedicated to make a Government officers, as well tinue this, and propose to offer location. Lastly, increasing the Speaker's Series. difference today on campus 
Profile 
Student Body President: Tina 
Carrara Residence: Holy Cross Hall Major: English and Spanish Year in School: 1993 Experience: S o c i a 
Commissioner, Junior Class Vice-President, Sophomore Class, Toastmasters, Spanish Club Secretary. ND Council on International Business 
Viee President Student 
AITairs: Julie McCormick Residence: Holy Cross Hall Major: Political Science and 
Spanish Year in School: 1993 Experience: Treasurer of 
Student Activities. International Club, ACU-1 Leadership Conference, Regina Hall 
Council,  PRISM,  Proper  
Response  to  Improve Saint  
Mary's  

Vice President of Academic 
AITairs: Mary Beth Wilkinson Residence: Holy Cross Hall Major: Economics and English 
Writing 
Carrara/McCormick/Wilkinson 

Experience: Secretary of Student Activities Board, Holy Cross Hall Council, Volleyball Team, Pre-Law Society, Political Science Club, ACU-1 Leadership Conference 
Three goals for 1992· 93: 

1) Streamline communication between students, faculty, and administration in order to heighten student influence on campus. 
2) Refresh the intellectual life at Saint Mary's through reform of the selection process of Student Council Academic Representatives, as well as increasing efforts to draw 
professors into academic/social events with students, and reviving alumnae speaker series. 
3) Improve quality of social events by increasing financial resources for student clubs and organizations. 
The Carrara ticket, comprised of MaryBeth Wilkinson, Julie McCormick, and Tina Carrara, plans to unite the Saint Mary's College community by strength­ening Student Government, en­riching social interaction, and igniting academic interest. The ticket, known as Women Making Changes, wants to utilize Saint Mary's esteemed resources: faculty members, clubs and organizations, and student energy, for the benefit of the entire campus. 
First. Women Making Changes wants to educate students about the structure of Saint Mary's Student Government. Often, Student Government is misunderstood and viewed as a sprawling mass of bureaucratic confusion. The WMC ticket proposes to streamline com­munication so that interaction between students, faculty, and the administration is orderly, efficient, and personable. 
Furthermore, we hope to heighten student influence on campus by emphasizing rela­tions with Student Alliances of Women's Colleges and by strengthening Alumnae-Student Relations. 
Second, WMC plans to refresh the intellectual life at Saint Mary's. Faculty and student body relations are weak outside the classroom setting. We in­tend to: I) investigate the selec­tion process of Student Council Academic Representatives and; 

2) draw professors into lively academic/social events with students. 
Additionally, WMC wants to revive a past tradition of an alumnae speaker series; a vast network of capable, successful, and intelligent women will provide inspiration for the future and promote apprecia­tion for the school. 
Third, Women Making Changes plans to improve the quality of social events by in­creasing financial resources. Currently, clubs and organiza­tions lack sufficient funds for elaborate programs. WMC wants to maximize resource potential by fund raising and strategically coordinating social events. 
In addition, we hope to financially support Dalloway's Coffee House as an intellectual, cultural, and social center of the student community. 
Women Making Changes wants to unify Saint Mary's College-politically, academi­cally, and socially. With experi­ence and commitment, WMC prepares for a campus-wide coalition of student energy, aspiration, and intellect. Please support progress ...vote for WMC for SMC. 
Accent ­
Wednesday, February 19. 1992 
John O'Brien 
Rockne's Lovechild 


What's wrong with a scandal or two? 
P 
oor Bill Clinton. 
A few weeks ago, the Presidency was 
his for the taking. Now, because of 
some indiscretions with Gennifer 
Flowers, he's ruined. The poor guy. 
Actually, though, he really can't be blamed for 
anything, except for (of course) adultery. But 
that's another story. 
Heck, Gennifer Flowers was a babe-not to 
mention a talented telejournalist, niteclub 
singer and translator of ancient Egyptian texts. 
She is a great role model for both women and 
men who want to accomplish something. Her 
maxim by which to live life: Original spelling of 
names. 
That's right. If you want to make it big in Corporate America, call yourself "Ginny Farley." If you want to be a famous telejournalist/niteclub singer/mistress, though, spell it "Djinni Pharlee." 
This is the key to success. To prove it, I am officially changing my name to "Gian Obryin." Sorry, Mom and Dad. 
But getting back to Clinton, I can't help but notice that of all of the people I know at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, there is absolutely no one that is free of skeletons in their closet. Looking at some of the people around here, I know I wouldn't want them to cut my grass, nontheless be President. 
Think about it. That person you lived with sophomore year who used to vomit on all of his or her SYR dates might someday have control of America's nuclear arsenal. 
Scary? Then think about some of your best friends being considered for Supreme Court justice. Imagine the proceedings: 
SENATOR 1: Tell me, Mr. Domer, when you were at Notre Dame, didn't you live in Dillon Hall? 
DOMER (sheepishly): Uh, yeah, but only until I got kicked off campus. 
SENATOR 2: Then, weren't you the host of a so-called "Scavenger Hunt" party in which guests had to bring you uncircumcised males and illegal substances to win? 
DOMER: Umm ... yeah, but the winner was a team that brought in a live nun. 
SENATOR 2: Was she in her habit? 
DOMER: No, but she was sucking down beers. 
SENATOR 3: Were you drunk while this was going on? DOMER: Well, yeah, I was in college, sir. SENATOR 3: Well, fellow Senators, he was 
drunk. I say we approve him. OTHERS: Sure ... okay ...if he was drunk, then it's not so bad. 
As you can see, Mr. Domer used the Universal College Rationalization: Claiming inebriation. Had Clarence Thomas or Bill Clinton tried this, they might not have been raked over the coals like they were. 
Think about it. The most common excuse heard around here is "Oh, sorry, I was drunk." Now we all know that doesn't cut it in the real world, but wouldn't it be funny if it did? 
SENATOR 1: Judge Thomas, did you call yourself "Long Dong Silver?" THOMAS: Yes, I did, but I was really drunk at the time. SENATOR 2: All right then. How about this pubic hair in the Coke thing? Drunk then too? 
THOMAS: As a skunk, Mr. Senator. 
SENATOR 1: Then it looks like all of your past checks out. Have fun in D.C.! 
Before I get a million letters and hate calls saying what a sicko I am (including one from my mother), I want to say that I don't think that drinking is the only way to have fun. There are a lot of fun things you can do if you don't drink and don't have skeletons in your closet. 
Chief Justice sounds good to me. 
John O'Brien is Accent Editor ofThe Observer. His columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 

page 11 


Thornton Wilder's vision of small town life urges the living to appreciate the little things 
By PAIGE SMORON 
Assistant Accent Editor 

With New Hampshire swamped this week with political hype, it is ironic that "Our Town" opens tonight at Washington Hall, with its depiction of a kinder, gentler New Hampshire. 
Thornton Wilder's nostalgic play about turn-of-the-century everyday life is set in Grover's Corners, New Hampshire, but represents any small town in America, according to Tom Barkes, house manager of Washington Hall. 
"The play focuses on the mundane activity of life," says Barkes. "Trivialities take on extreme importance when you realize that life is precious." 
"Our Town," one of four plays sponsored this year by the Department of Communication and Theater, features a stage manager, played by Rachel Zutell, who almost disconcertingly narrates, directs, and comments on the action onstage. 
Zutell invites the audience watch the love story of Emily Webb, played by Katy Blakey, and George Gibbs, played by Chris Murphy, from their awkward adolescent beginnings until Emily's untimely death in childbirth. As they fall in love, life obliviously goes on around them. 
The set is minimal, but Zutell prompts the audience to visualize buildings, characters, and even trees. "Here are some trellises, for those of you who have to have scenery," chides Zutell. 
The stage manager converses directly with the audience in 1992, as well as with the characters in 1901. Zutell jumps back and forth in time, and occasionally will invite a university professor to lecture the audience on the history of the town, or interview the editor of the newspaper, who also takes questions from the audience. These innovations provide a look at small town life from all angles in a humorous way. 
Instead of a backdrop and props, the play relies heavily on sound. Christina Saracino and Becky 
Schmucker linger near the back of the stage, using their talents to recreate the sounds of glass bottles clinking and even doorknobs clicking. The detailed turn-of-the­century costuming is also significant in drawing attention to the actors, rather than the set. 
Grover's Corners develops as everybody's home town, complete with town drunks and a church choir. Some characters that effectively provide local color are Mrs. Soames, played by Erin O'Malley, who gushes so effusively about how beautiful a wedding is that she drowns out the ceremony; and Howie Newsome, played by Nathan FitzGerald, who talks to an invisible cow named "Bessie." 
Murphy and Blakey are believable and natural in their roles, maturing before the audience's eyes. Murphy is everybody's little brother as a teenager, running around with a baseball and a mitt, and his 

.. 
showdown with his future father-in­law, played by Greg Murphy, is hysterical. His transformation is especially poignant when he grieves at his wife's grave. 
Blakey portrays the emotions of a girl discovering love with proper unpredictability, gazing at the moon from the ladder that represents her room. Later, she is heart-rending to watch as she observes an insignificant day early in her life from the perspective of the dead. The audience feels her frustration with her as she realizes that the living don't appreciate living. She cries, "Just for a moment, let's all be happy. Let's look at one another." 
Performances of "Our Town" will run from tonight until Saturday, at 
8:10 p.m. at Washington Hall. Tickets are $7 for reserved seats, and are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office. 

~ ---~--------­
... page 12 
KENNEDY ASSASSINATION 
DEALEY PLAZA Dallas, Texas November 22, 1963 12:30 CST 
Professor Ward's Proposed Sequence of Events 
1. 
Bullet enters Kennedy's back 

2. 
Bullet enters Connally's back, exits front of chest, enters and exists right wrist 

3. 
Bullet enters Kennedy's head from rear; one fragment exits throat; another exits head and scars curb, Main 

4. 
Bullet enters Kennedy's head from right front 


The Observer/Brendan Regan 
By JOHN RYAN Accent Writer 
Accent 

Wednesday, February 19, 1992 

he release of Oliver
T 
Stone's film "JFK" has sparked Americans to search for the answers to the assassination of Presi­dent John Fitzpatrick Kennedy. There is much evidence from that November day , but much of it is questionable, difficult to sift through, and grueling to formulate any sort of theory. 
Several theories have sprung up over the years as a result of studies such as those conducted by the Warren Commission and the House Select Committee on Assassination Report. James Ward, a practicing CPA in South Bend and accounting professor at Notre Dame, has studied and researched the assassination thoroughly. Ward has developed his own opinion as to what occurred on that infamous day in Dallas. 
On November 22, 1963, Kennedy arrived in Dallas via Air Force One at about noon. He was on a trip that was to help quell the ongoing dispute between the two Democratic factions in Texas and to gain a foothold there for the upcoming election. He arranged a motorcade so that he could make a favorable impression on the Texans. 
The motorcade travelled through Dallas during lunch hour so that Kennedy would receive maximum exposure to the people of Dallas. Everything was going beautifully, and he was greeted on every street block by hordes of cheering supporters. 
Toward the end of the route the crowds began to thin, and the motorcade took a sharp turn onto Elm Street, which caused the pace to slow. The 21-car caravan had only a short distance to travel through Dealy Plaza before it exited onto the freeway, but about three seconds into the drive down Elm Street, shots rang out. Kennedy had been fatally shot. 
Ward was a young boy at the time of the assassination. He shared his hometown with Kennedy, and he distinctly remembers the time when the Kennedys travelled through his town on a campaign trip. The Kennedys' car pulled up to a stoplight at the intersection where Ward was standing, and Ward ran up to the car and hopped up onto the running board. The friendliness and the charisma of the Kennedys touched the young Ward and left a lasting 


a shot from the right front," which was the location of the 

impression with him. 
Ward has dedicated much time and effort in research to those six seconds of shooting and the days that followed. "I am a researcher, not a critic," stresses Ward. Perhaps he just wanted to answer a few questions for himself. 
T 
he main questions in the case concern the actual shooting. How many shots were fired? Who fired the 
bullets? Where were the shots fired from? As with much of the evidence in the Kennedy assassi­nation, there is not one clear answer, and any theory can be disputed. Ward believes that one "must not trust any one source or even the basic evidence and testimony ... belief and trust have long been part of the problem." 
Regarding the question of how many shots were fired, Ward finds that "the bulk of the evidence points to four shots. Two to four bullets could have caused Kennedy's wounds, and Texas Gov. John B. Connally, Jr., who was also in the vehicle but survived the shooting, could have been hit by one to three bullets. 
"The evidence against (Lee Harvey) Oswald is impressive," states Ward, who believes that Oswald did fire at President Kennedy. Oswald's rifle, bearing his palm prints, was found near a sixth floor window of the Texas School Book Depository Building where he was employed. Also bullet fragments fired from his rifle were found in the front seat of the presidential limousine. 
Where the shots were fired from has caused much controversy over the years. "The fact that two large bullet fragments, ballistically proven traceable to Oswald's rifle, were found in the front seat in the presidential limousine supplies very strong evidence that the rifle was fired once," says Ward. However, there is no evidence that he shot more than once. 
Also, Oswald was known to be a bad shot, and it would be next to impossible for him to fire three shots in less than six seconds with a bolt­action rifle that retailed for three dollars at a moving car, and hit his target. So where did the other shots come from? 
The grassy knoll in Dealy Plaza is apparently the answer. With shrubbery to conceal the sniper, and a clear line of fire, it provided an ideal location for the shooting. The Zapruder film which recorded the assassination shows the sharp backward movement of Kennedy's head, and the backward spray of blood and brain tissue onto the rear of the car. 
"These are very strong indicators of 
J: 
0 
c 
U) 
0
-
:::J 

grassy knoll, says Ward. The 
police acoustical tape shows evidence that a shot was fired from the knoll. Many witnesses testified to hearing shots from the knoll, smelling gunpowder, and seeing a flash of light there. 
A witness saw a man fleeing from the knoll immediately after the shooting. Due to poor police coverage the area was not sealed off, and witnesses and possible suspects were lost forever. 
The murder of Oswald complicated the case even further. 1\vo days after the assassination he was shot by Jack Ruby while being transported into a more secure prison. Reliable witnesses have provided evidence showing that Oswald and Ruby may have known each other prior to the assassination. Ruby's motives are still unknown, and many critics have used the murder of Oswald to support their theories of conspiracy. 
K 
ennedy's assassination was one of the most tragic episodes in American history. Kennedy was young, handsome, and charismatic. To the nation he represented youth, energy, and idealism, and he conveyed to the public his belief that the people of the United States could make a difference in the world. 
His life was brutally taken away from him, and the act was seen and felt by millions of viewers who grieved the death of their president. Americans immediately demanded answers, but a concrete answer has never been found. 
Many of the "answered" questions are shady and subject to criticism. "Don't park your mind while your heart is running," advises Ward. "What we need to do is go back and re-examine the basic points of contention in this case and be willing, as we investigate, to accept with our hearts what our brains tell us is the truth." 
Ward has tried to do this, acting only as a researcher, and basing his opinions only on the factual evidence. Still, America asks for something more concrete. After so many investigations, and so few answers, Americans' questions may be left unanswered forever. 
"[We] must not trust any one source or even the basic evidence and testimony ... belief and trust have long been part of the problem." 
-Professor James Ward 


----~--~----------~-----~----~-~--­
---~~--~~----­
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from I 0 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day ctassifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
USED TEXTBOOKS! Buy & Sell Books Pandora's Books 3 blks. from NO 233-234211 0-5:30 M-Sun 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082. 
If you are a NU SKIN distrbutr please call Scott x1538 
Lost and Found 
LOST: CAMERA IN BLACK BAG WITH RED TRIM DURING JPW. CALL DAVID AT 283-4531 OR SANDRA AT 815-933-5257 COLLECT. 
FOUND: MAN'S DIGITAL WATCH BETWEEN SIEGFRIED & PE DURING JPW. CALL BEN AT 283­1766. 
LOST-NJ Driver's Liscence-­OK, It's been long enough! Stop memorizing my address and SS#. Return my ID!! No questions asked. Please return to Lauren x1711. 
Lost: I left a pair of wool mittens with brown leather palms in Rm. 118 O'Shag and now they're gone!! I really love these mittens and need to have them back. If you know anylhing about them, please call Kristine @ X3352. 
02120 Found: Blue and green London Fog jacket in my car at the Commons on Monday nile (around 3 a.m.). If yours please call Nancy at 257­8534. 
Lost: an AIWA walkman with yellow headphones. It was in a clear plastic bag with a white DETEX. NO questionsill! call Chris 233-5882 
LOST: pair of grey wool gloves; left 
in 120 O'Shag after 10:10 Arthur. 
Legend class. Please call Pete 
X1676 
02120 
Found: Men's glasses at wild 
Howard party on 1/25. Call 
Bevo x2558 
LOST bright yellow Esprit pouch at 
NOH on Valentine's Day; contains 
detex, license, and other 
identification. If found please call 
Kiernan x2722. 
········Losr·········· 
WANTED 
$350.00/DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. 
Need ride to Ll or Area for S.B.Can 
leave 3/6. Anne x2580 
FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM 
Fraternities, sororities, student 
clubs. Earn up to $1000 in one 
week. Plus receive a $1000 bonus 
yourself. And a FREE WATCH just 
for calling 1-800-932-0528. Ext. 65. 
GREEN CORPS CAMPAIGN 
ORGANIZERS Field training and 
team organizing on critical enviro 
campaigns. Salaried positions in 
30 cities. For info (3030) 355-1881 
or the Career Center. 
Ride needed back from Wash D.C. 
on Sun, March 15; can also be on 
March 14. Willing to help with tolls 
and gas and can drive stick. 
Call Laura 3607. 
FULL TIME BABY-SITIER 
NEEDED IN OUR MISHAWAKA 
HOME TO TAKE CARE OF 
NEWBORN. 
OWN TRANSPORTATION 
REQUIRED. 
TEL:255-7961 (HOME) 
239-5608 (OFFICE) 
Need a ride to D.C. Met. area 
Will Split gas & tolls 
Call Bill at x4141 
Need ride to Purdue 
Will pay gas 
Call Brian X4245 
Drummer/Bassist to jam w/ mediocre guitarist. Matt-2155 
2 ND women need ride to Rl or w/in 2 hrs for SB will pay gas call KATE 3534 
Do you live in UPSTATE NY and are headed home lor Spring Break? Am looking for a ride -will pay gas etc. Scott 2373. 
...___F_O_R_R_EN_T____.r 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
NEED A COMFORTABLE PLACE FOR PARENTS TO STAY FOR UPCOMING WEEK-ENDS? Call Home B&B 291-0535. Approved by IN B&B Assoc. 
3 SEPARATE BEDROOMS, USE 
OF FACILITIES, KITCHEN, 
WASHING, $225/MO. NICE 
NEIGHBORHOOD & HOME. 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS. PAUL 232­
2794. 
TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER SUBLET -CHEAP FOR FOUR STUDENTSII DO NOT PAY EXPENSIVE DORM RATES AND PUT UP WITH RULES -HANG BY THE POOLII!I CALL X3414­MESSAGE. 
HOUSE FOR RENT FOR 
SUMMER SCHOOL. $150/MO., 
$170/MO., $200/MO. WALK TO 
CAMPUS. CALL 287-2159 PAUL. 
ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO., 
FOR LARGE 4-BR, FURNISHED 
HOUSE. COMPLETE SECURITY 
SYSTEM: WASHER & DRYER; 9­
MO. LEASE. DEPOSIT. 259-7801 
OR 255-5852. 
Rent Frat House '92-'93 
Pooltble, Security System, 2 
kegerators (full bar),5Bedrms 
(houses 8-9), fully furnished, 
2bath, Cheap rent. 
Call now!/234-6976 
FOR SALE 
CHEAP/ FBI/U.S. SEIZED 
89 Mercedes ...................... $200 
86 vw....................................$50 
87 Mercedes ...................... $100 
65 Mustang .......................... $50 
Choose from thousands starting 
$25. 
FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals 
Details 801-379-2929 Copyright 
#IN11KJC 
FOR SALE: SMC approved loft. 
$80 call 284-5174. 
RT Ticket SB--Tampa. Lv. 3/6; 
Ret.3/13. Good price. 
Mike X3076 
TICKETS 
NEED 5 UCLA GA TIX 
CALL AMY 2909 
I need 2 UCLA tix 
Christina X2615 
WANTED-2 UCLA GA's. Please 
call Lauren x1711 
HELP I I Need 4 UCLA 
B-Ball Tixsll 
Mimi 284-5158 
Round trip airfare from Chicago to Puerto Rico for Spring Break: $450. Call x1803 
Need 2-3 NO/UCLA TIX 
Please call Joyce x5319 
PERSONAL 
INDI/INA AUTO INSURANCE. 
Good rates. Save Money. Call me 
for a quote 9:30-6:00, 
289-1993. Office near campus. 
ADOPT -Devoted father, full-time mother seek newborn to join family. We promise your baby love and understanding, a good education & fun. Supportive grandparents. Legal. Call Bev & Howard COLLECT 914-235-3917. 
It's Coming I SPRING BREAK TO FLORIDA BEACHES. FUN IN THE SUN, 4/RM. prices. Daylona $149, Panama City $139 Kitch, Wtrfrt & Trans Available. Call CMI at 1-800­423-5264. 

That's the way it goes, I guess ... 
DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO O'HARE? CALL UNITED LIMO. SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK FROM NO BUS SHELTER. 674-7000 OR 1-800-833-5555. 
His eyes OPEN I!!!! 

"Let's go Greyhound on spring break. 50% off anywhere we go. Restrictions apply. Call 287-6541" 
We are a young, happily married, financially secure, couple longing for a baby to nurture and share in our love & lives. Let's help each other and give your baby a bright future. Please call collect and get to know us 708-246-1095. 
Kate-You are awesome and we all miss you. I'm keeping some Ben &Jerry's for you-come see us soon. Knock 'em dead in South Bend-oh yeah, Danny Quayle says hi... 
Love and peace, 
Susan 

GOVERNMENT CAREER DAY 
Learn about careers with state, 
local, and federal government. 
ALL STUDENTS WELCOME/ 
TODAY 
CCE/Lower Level 
Noon-4:00 p.m. 

HOW TO OBTAIN A SUMMER INTERNSHIP PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES TONIGHT 6:30 P.M. IN ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. ALL WELCOME. 
HOW TO OBTAIN A SUMMER INTERNSHIP PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES TONIGHT 6:30 P.M. IN ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. ALL WELCOME. 
LULAC will be sponsoring a dinner to benefit Projecto Madre on Wed, Feb. 19th at 5:30 in the CSC. The cost is $2.00 and all are welcome to enjoy good food with friends. 
PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL 
7 nights Ramada Inn 

Bus transportation included. 
Only $199-payment due in full 
Friday 2/21. Only 12 spaces leftlll 
Don't miss outlll 

Call SUB for info@ 239-7668. 
Company of OUR TOWN: 
Thanks for all your help in making this show the best ever and one of the greatest times of my life. Break a leg. jules 
HELP MEl HELP MEl HELP MEl 
Are you driving to TEXAS for SPRING BREAK? I desperately need a RIDE to HOUSTON, San Antonio or Austin I Can help drive and pay for gas. Call TEX at X3367 or come by 409 Keenan. 
He not awaken with kisses from his loved one, only the need to empty his bowels at Sam will make his rise from his slumber-he's MR.POTTY!II 
Michael, remember it's a joke, laugh a littlell!l!l -renee 
Erin, good luck tonight! II II We know you'll do welllll!lll luv, R,B,and H Twang!ll 
Leeks in the Night & Book in the 
Head-

The Mardi Gras Mombos are coming to townII! First one there can have my teepee, and, no, not with me in ill 
Thunder lungs Alicia, 
You are so funny. Hal hal 
Brrrrrfffffffl!lllll 

Do you realize what you are starting? What have I done that warranted such a vicious attack? 
Watch out! 
Brrrfffffffffl!!ll! 
Beta Jeff-

Could I have some cottage cheese on myJo El? 
Scrubby 
Shaka: When the walls fell 

For Bruce: TO A STRAPPING YOUNG MONSTER FROM NYC. HAPPY V-DAY TO YOU FROM ME. YOU'VE BEEN PLAYING DOCTOR MUCH TOO LONG, BUT SINCE YOUR PATIENT IS WILLING, YOU'RE NOT IN THE WRONG. 
LOVE, 

TOKENGEEK I can't believe I am doing this. I guess I am a virgin of the classified ads. I guess that this is safe, though. It cannot take up too much time for either of us. I am thinking of you. Have an awesome day I I am looking forward to this weekend. 
P.S. Do you have biking gloves or weight lilting gloves? The rowing machine gave me blisters. Ugh! See ya'! 
JOB 

Thanks for a romantic Valentine's 
celebration. Thanks for the 

surprise-even though I made you 
do it. 
You are the best. 
I love you. 
KJT 
hey nil 

STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Calll-800-878-3696. 
SUMMER JOBS 

ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-786­8373 
The Lizard King lives onI Down with the Crustaceans! 
HURRY! Don't Miss Out. SOUTH PADRE and CANCUN SPRING BREAK of "92"! Seven night packages from $199. Lowest prices guaranteed. Call Orion Tours TODAY: 1-800-800-6050. 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center We're Open Everyday! I! 
Campus band looking for 
experienced guitarist call 
Sue 284-5227 Mike 257-8609 
Dr. Seuss lives. Theodore's Saturday, Feb. 22, 1:00pm-3:00pm 
Relive your childhood, 
Help South Bend's 
homeless children. 
Theodore's, 
Saturday, Feb. 22, 
1:00pm-3:00pm. 
Ski Trip to Caberfae Ski Resort Sat. & Sun., Feb. 22 & 23 
Package includes: 
•Accommodations 
at Days Inn 

•Free 
Continental Breakfast 

•Discount 
on Ski Rentals 

•Two-day 
lift ticket 


ONLY$65!! 
Sign up at the Student 
Governmnent Office (BARB) 
Questions??? Call239-7668. 
UNDERGRADUATES 
Don't despair, even through NO is moving more and more toward a research institution the undergrads are not grow­ing less important. Heck no, we graduate students would love to use you people as test subjects in our experiments. 
HOW TO OBTAIN A SUMMER INTERNSHIP PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES TONIGHT6:30 P.M. IN ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY CENTER. All WELCOME. 
HEY DeDe, 
Good luck on the tests and papers this week. With the support of da Lion, I'm sure you'll do fantastic, 'cause you're awse. Also, I still have your shirt, and I really like it, so you may have a tough time getting it back real soon. 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND Condominiums for Spring Break. $20 per person per nighV off beach $25 per person per nighV beach front 1-800-422-8212. 
DEART2, THANKS FOR THE WONDERFUL 
J.P.W. WEEKI LOVE, MOM & DAD 
WHERE CAN YOU FIND "THE CAT IN THE HAT," "SAM I AM," AND NOTRE DAME'S OWN CIRCUS LUNCH CLOWN? AT THEODORE'S OF COURSE I SATURDAY, FEB. 22, 1-3PM. 
Take a cold shower before you jump in a Lake. -Joe 
Needed: ride to Atlanta for break...please call x3806 
To that long-haired guy ... Too hot to handle! or are you? (that which I was referring to) 
RAY LEBLANC FOR PRESIDENT 
COPEY­THANKS FOR THE FLOWER 
CATHERINE 
everything you know is wrong. 
Dear Sonia, 
Happy birthday. Get your boots on for this weekend. I'm surprised that you've read this far without interrupting mel 
Love, Patricio 
D. dog, RJC, Clue, 
Do you know if roses grow underground? 
TOP TEN QUOTES 
From 3 Boys in the Appearance of Men and a Bunch of Chicks in Chicago 
1 0 Who is he, this man you seek? 9 Just use the end of the line, man. 8 EVERYBODY get in the bed. 7 ...Mr. Slurpy over here... 6 Let's just throw the safety lock on and call it a night. 5 If you unplug the phone she'll probably just keep talking. 4 Please do not receive the 666­mark. It is a ticket to hell. 3 You totally dissed me... You have PIZZA? 2 I've got genitals that satellites would BEG to orbit. 1 HUMMERS? 
OLD TIME HOCKEY. ice. steel. pain and anguish. CAVANAUGH vs. alumni. II :45 p.m. Thursday, Joyce ACC Fieldhouse. 
VOTE PETROVIC CANNON FEHEY DIFINO 
CLASS OF '94 OFFICERS. 
WE'RE IT AND THAT'S THATI 
MARCH FOR WOMEN'S LIFE II PRO-CHOICE ACTIVISTS: JOIN THE INTERGENERATIONAL MICHIIANA COALITION TO ORGANIZE 1 BUS, 1 TRAIN-CAR, 1 PLANE FOR THE FREEDOM OF CHOIICE RALLY IN WASHINGTON, D.C. PLANNING MEETING FRI. 2-21 5-9 PM CALL FOR MORE INFO 232-6495 OR 284-5136 HELP 

I need a ride to CINCINNATI/DAYTON OHIO AREA this weekend.! $$$ Pleases call 283-51 07 or 284-5214 
Can you feel it? Change is in the air... 
Happy 21st Will Pollardlll 

New Jack City Carroll Aud.-SMC 9:00pm/ $1.00 
Good luck on your exams ReDe, R'A, Martha, Abbs, Steve 
Love, Duane 
Mamas don't let your babies grow up to be Waylon and Willie and the Boys! 
Love, Garth 

Top Ten Quotes from the Reba Tour.......... . 
10.) More crab legs? 9.) The last one to know ..... 8.) That a-ho-111 7.) Did we pass thison the way here?? 6.) I think I need to be adopted by this family. 5.) I like this sport. 4.) Hey, now that we're full, let's try Slimfastll 3.) I've been analyzing the situation here and I have a theory about... ....... . 2.) Yeah, your friends are really intelligent. 1.) Hey, watch it, we're just rentin' this thing don't ya know!!lll!llll 
GOD BLESS OUR CAMPUS II 
WANTED: A university policy on housing rights and visitation rights. Must be ethical, consistent and acceptable to all parties involved. To help us out, call the NDadministration's toll-free hotline at 1-800-GET-CLUE 
M.B.G. Thanks so much for all your dedication to THE UNIVERSITY! It's nice to know someone off campus is readiing the paper. 
Hi Mom! love, Liza 
Dear Matt, 
For the first time in my life, I am sorry that I was tight three months ago. 
Brett and Lunchmeat, I hope it all went okay this morning! 
Happy 21st Birthday Erin Duffey! 
"She is his only need ........ ." 

James, We didn't do those essay questions, now I'm going to have to call and spend mucho time on the phone to get them done. Are you coming up with creative B.S. statements for me? 
Liza 
P.S. Let's discuss this car deal! 
IP'mlyfllll'~ 
a 
~mm~o!lfi!lll) 
mmmrultll 'll'cemn 
el'rub.mentll, Papa John's Pizza Karaoke Slug-Along, Sweet DJ Castle Point Clubhowe Must be 21 Years of Age ­NQJ:xceptlons Call LIUice J)aWBOD@ 271-1681 

EXPLORE THE PHYSICAL, BIOLOGICAL, & SOCIAL SCIENCES Wdh Low-Cost Educational Software For IBM PC® l Compatible Computers. Music & Gardening Software Also Available Send Self-Add. Stamped Env. for Catalog to 
D.E D ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING 10306 E. Lwe Oak Ave., Arcadia CA 91007 
----------~---~-~­
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, February 19, 1992 
Tomba skis to giant slalom gold

Lindros, Canada squeak by Germany 
MERIBEL, France (AP) ­Sean Burke stopped Peter Drai­saitl's shot by the slimmest of margins today, allowing heavily favored Canada to defeat Ger­many in a shootout and remain alive for its first Olympic hockey gold medal since 1952. 
Eric Lindros' goal was the difference in the first medal­round shootout in Olympic his­tory, which became necessary when the game was tied 3-3 after both regulation and a tO­minute overtime. Only one other Olympic game went to a shootout -France's victory over Norway in the 1988 game for 11th place. 
Each team designated five players to take penalty shots at goalies Burke and Helmut de Raaf. Each stopped three of the first five shots he faced, so it came down to a two-shooter duel. 
Lindros, who shot high on his first attempt, faked de Raaf down to the ice and slid the puck into the net to put Canada ahead 3-2 in the shootout. 
Draisaitl, who was stopped by Burke's stick the first time, tried to beat Burke through the pads. The puck squeezed through, but Burke got just enough of it to make it stop on the goal line. The puck must cross the goal line entirely to be a goal. 
Other shootout scorers for Canada were Jason Woolley and Wally Schreiber. Germany's scorers were Michael Rumrich and Andreas Brockmann. 
The Canadians (5-l) are guaranteed no worse than fourth place, where they fin­ished in 1984 and 1988. They haven't won a medal since a bronze in 1968, an embarrass­ing dry spell for a country in which hockey is a way of life. 
Quarterfinals continue Wednesday, with the Unified Team ( 4-1) playing Finland (3­1-1) and world champion Swe­den (3-0-2) meeting Czechoslo­vakia (4-1). Canada will meet the Sweden-Czechoslovakia winner Friday. 
The consolation round also began today, with Norway beating Italy, 5-3. 
The U.S. team got the top seed in its group by tying Swe­den 3-3 Monday night behind Ray LeBlanc's 45 saves. Sweden almost lost the second seed, but Mikael Johansson's goal with 21 seconds left clinched it. Also Monday, Finland beat Italy 5-3 and Germany defeated Poland 4-0. 

Canada was the first team to qualify for the medal round and Germany (2-4) was the last. 
But the difference between the teams was tiny today. 
Germany's conservative of­fense and stern defense and good goaltending kept Canada bottled up most of the game. After Canada went ahead 3-2 on Kevin Dahl's goal with 6:06 left in regulation, Ernst Koepf deflected Ron Fischer's shot past goalie Sean Burke to make it 3-3 with 2:22 left. 
Referee Seppo Makela disal­lowed three apparent Canada goals -two because he lost sight of the puck and blew his whistle before a Canadian player worked the puck free and, with 1:26 left in regula­tion, when he ruled that Fabian Joseph kicked the puck into the net. Television replays showed his call on Joseph's goal was correct. 
Joe Juneau and Brad Schlegel also scored for Canada, while Jurgen Rumrich and Dieter He­gen added goals for Germany. 
While the end was exciting, the contest rarely had the in­tensity of Monday's U.S.-Swe­den game, which was also ref­ereed by Makela. 
Mats Naslund, once honored by the NHL for his gentlemanly behavior. sent U.S. defenseman Greg Brown to the hospital with a crunching (U.S. coach Dave Peterson said "very dirty") check against the boards just 
2:04 into the game. 

Naslund, who was ejected by Makela, said he wished Brown didn't get hurt, but didn't apol­ogize for the hit that gave Brown a concussion, a broken nose and facial lacerations. He said it was a part of the game -even if, until recently, it was rarely a part of Sweden's game plan. 

"I might have to give back the Lady Byng," Naslund said, re­ferring to the sportsmanship trophy he received in 1988 while with the Montreal Cana­dians. 
Brown got out of the hospital this morning and, according to 
U.S. Dr. Dave Joyner, was "up and around." He may return. later in the week. 
Peterson was upset with the hit and demanded that Naslund be suspended. But Jan-Ake Ed­vinsson, International Ice Hockey Federation general sec­retary, said today his group would not take any action against Naslund. 
"He will be available to play for Sweden in their next game," Edvinsson said. 
During and after the game, Peterson cursed Swedish play­ers and coaches, and refused to shake hands with assistant coach Curt Lundmark at the post-game news conference. 
Lundmark, in turn, was ap­palled by Peterson's "unsportsmanlike" behavior. And he said the U.S. team had better get used to sharing its rugged style with the rest of the hockey world. 
"We have to play them the way they play us," Lundmark said. "We can't go away from them." 

The Observer is seeking Saint Mary's Sports Writers. Those interested should contact Christine Penote at 284-5331 or Dave Dieteman at 283-1545 
IllALUMNI 
!CLUB 
STUDENT BARTENDER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM OP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 5, 1992 

but this time nearly moved to tears. 
"It's the greatest joy to win two Olympic titles in a row," he said. 
There was a point at which his gold medal looked in doubt. At the first intermediate time on the second run, he was .35 seconds behind Girardelli, ac­tually in 12th place. 
"I was told that Marc had been very fast, but I did not know exactly his time," Tomba said. 
By the second intermediate time, Tomba had picked up nearly .15, and then he really went to work. At a little better than 6-foot and nearly 200 pounds, he looked like Dick Butkus charging down the hill. Did the gates move out of the way? 
The snow flew as he leaned his body into each turn. He lurched down the hill like Butkus in pursuit of a scram­bling Fran Tarkenton, and when he catapaulted over the goal line, he was a big winner. In skiing, there is no bigger winner than Tomba. 
Wednesday, February 19, 1992 The Observer page 15 
Cone wins arbitration case 
Rivalry 
continued from page 20 
basketball games, rivalries al­ways have unpredictable re­sults. 
"Geographically, we're very close. The rivalry dates back all the way to when coach [AI] McGuire was there. Over the past few few years, regardless of our records, we always have a dogfight," senior Elmer Ben­nett described the matchup. 
Bennett should be quite familiar with the Warriors. Bennett had averaged 13.1 points in the previous seven games. He led the Irish up­tempo game in with second half of January's comeback victory with 20 points. 
But in his final game against Marquette, Bennett had a little more difficulty..The Irish point . guard went just one-of-seven from the field with four assists. 
Bennett explained the trouble of playing a team for the sec­ond time in a season. 

Elmer Bennett 
"You become familiar with each team's plays. When you call a play, they already know what play you're running. That makes it all the more fun. It's a battle to see who can play the mental game longer," said Ben­nett. 
The Irish seemed more confi­dent and more comfortable at home, hitting their free throws and playing smart down the stretch. 
Fans are also good at sensing rivalries. The crowd of 8,556 in the stands was as intense as the action on the court. The Irish crowd expressed their usual academic pride, taunting the Marquette gathering as "ND Rejects," while the visiting section responded with the equally absurd "LaPhonso can't read" chant whenever Ellis stepped to the line. 
Notre Dame usually neutral­izes the visiting crowd by allot­ting only a distant bleacher sec­tion for loyal supporters. Mar­quette fans who made the five hour trek submissively crowded into the Joyce ACC's section 117. 
Some of the raucous crowd dawned Warrior blue and gold, and others sported their hearty beer bellies, amply fed by ex­cessive nightlife in the notori­ous brew town of Milwaukee. 
Ushers and security guards were busy patrolling the section throughout the evening, eject­ing obnoxious visitors and sub­duing anyone displaying "MU" and "Warriors" signs. Mar­quette fans went home frus­trated, angry and envious, and another chapter was added to the historic rivalry. 
NEW YORK (AP) -New York Mets right-hander David Cone was awarded a record $4.25 million in arbitration yesterday just as Texas outfielder Ruben Sierra prepared to argue his case for a $5 million request. 
Arbitrator Nicholas Zumas, who heard arguments for 5 112 hours Monday, picked Cone's figure over the Mets' $3 million offer. 
Cone was 14-14 with a 3.29 ERA in 1991 and made $2.35 million. His new salary tops the $3.35 million awarded in arbi­tration last winter to Pittsburgh Pirates right-hander Doug Drabek. 
"We felt it would be a difficult case to win after the recent contracts awarded to similar pitchers, specifically when comparing it to Greg Maddux's contract," Mets general man­ager AI Harazin said. "We're delighted that arbitration sea­son is over and we're ready to start playing baseball again. We 
Hoops 
continued from page 20 
sively in a game in which we didn't have smoothness or dis­tribution from an offensive standpoint," said MacLeod. 
hope David has a great season." 
Cone's agents, Stephen Fehr and Richard Moss, compared their client to Chuck Finley of California, who will average $4,625,000 in a four-year deal, and to the Chicago Cubs' Maddux, who signed for $4.2 million. · 
Sierra hit .307 last season with 25 homers and 116 RBis and made $2.65 million. He was offered $3.8 million by Texas and the sides were set to argue this afternoon before ·arbitration William Rentfro. 
Berry had proposed a $27.5 million, five-year deal, but withdrew the proposal Friday. Rangers president Tom Schieffer has refused to con-· sider guaranteeing a deal of that length, although general manager Tom Grieve was said to be in favor of accepting the offer. 
"There doesn't seem to be any point in considering long­term discussions," Berry said. 
Indeed, the Irish had trouble getting into gear against Mar­quette. Notre Dame led 12-8 after ten minutes, then fell vic­tim to a 9-0 Marquette run, capped by a three-pointer ofT of the fast break by guard Robb Logternian. 
Notre Dame outscored Mar­quette 16-7 over the remainder of the first half, to lead 28-24 at halftime. 

Notre Dame was helped by Marquette's poor free-throw shooting early in the game. With seven minutes remaining, the Warriors had made only two of ten attempts, and missed their first five attempts. 
Notre Dame's bench contin­ued its solid play, as Boyer, Jon Ross and Malik Russell made impacts ofT of the pine. 
Ross scored two points and pulled down three rebounds in nine minutes of action. 
Russell contributed solid de­fensive play for the Irish, and paid for the win with a bloody lip from Logterman's elbow. 
"Malik Russell gave us a great boost defensively with great energy in the second half," said MacLeod. "He didn't score, but he was productive from a defensive standpoint." 
points. As a matter of fact, Davis and teammate Esther

SMC 
Dykstra tallied 33 of Olivet's first half points. continued from page 20 This combination of six-foot 
The difference the game for forwards proved lethal against Olivet was senior Julie Davis, Saint Mary's. who was out with an injury in "I think the difference was December. But last night Davis that she was hurt when we led the Lady Comets with 28 played them the first time in the tournament. She's back and is their mainstay," Cromer added. 
"Julie does help. She gives us 
size at the front line," explained Olivet coach Leslie Spicer. "Instead of having two six footers, we've got three." 
The situation worsened for 
the Belles before it got better ill the second half. Olivet's ag­gressive defense held the Belles to just ten points in the first nine minutes as they stretched their lead to 24 points. 
The Belles regrouped and cut the lead to under 20 as the clock continued to tick. How­
,.......................................... 
• 
• • 
• 
• n l( r
• Ir's IIEIV:J • 
•
• r r 
• Jf'S II0 • 
• 
~ IT~ 0~K 

: BUFFALO HOT WINGS 
•.• 
AVAILABLE FROM 6 PIECES TO : A 30-PIECE BUCKET 
•
t *BRING IN TillS AD AND GET $1.00 OFF A 30-PIECE BUCKET t HOURS: 8:00P.M.-1:00 A.M.-SUNDAY-THURSDAY : 8:00P.M.-2:00A.M.-FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 
t THE NITE OAK -IN SOUTH DINING HALL 
• 
• • 
• 
•
• 

ever, there would not be any last second upsets as the Belles had experienced in the last few games. Olivet checked the Belles offense and sped on to the easy victory. 
The Belles will have a few days to recuperate from the Olivet onslaught. One thing Cromer plans to focus on in 
r:r~~~~eT~: ~~fle~~l~~! ~~=~ 
plagued by free throw problems in both the Beloit and Olivet. The Belles sank only 57 percent of their free throws against Beloit, and then only an anemic 38 percent of their attempts last night, compared 
to Olivet's 65 percent. 
"I don't know what the prob­lem is . These last two games we didn't hit. We missed a lot of 
free throws tonight. I think that
• 
they are thinking and they need 

• 
to just shoot them," remarked 

• 
Cromer. 


+ 

PleaseRecycle 
: 
this paper 
+ 
: 
t t 
: 
t 


········································+ 


:{:':':i<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<><><<<<<<<:::>:::<<:>::::::::::::::::::>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>:<<t:>(<<<>>><:>>>>>>>>>>>><>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>(>>:>>>>>>>>>>:>>><:::f:·:;;m 
Wednesday, February 19, 1992 
SCOREBOARD
page 16 
TRANSACTIONSNBA STANDINGS HL STANDINGS 

BASEBALLWALES CONFERENCE 

EASTERN CONFERENCE American League
Patrlek Dlvlalon 

AUMtlc Dtvlalon BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Agreed to terms wMh
w L T Pill GF GA Home Away DIY L Pd CJ! LtO Streak Home Away Coni
w 193 19-6-3 16-13-1 13-10-0 Mike Devereaux and Randy MIUigan, outfielders, New YOlk 33 t8 .&47 7-3 Won 2 111-6 t4-12 23-13 t97 17-8-1 16-12-4 15-9-0 on on&-year contracts. 
NY Rangers 37 19 4 78 236 
Washington 33 20 5 71 246
4 4-8 Loet 1 t9-6 1().18 t7-t4

Boeton 29 22 .569 20-7-3 12-11-4 11-9-4 TEXAS RANGERS-inv~ed Floyd Bannister,
New Je~ey 32 18 7 71 220 174 
Philadelphia 25 27 .48t 8tl2 4-8 Won t t8-t1 9-18 18-20 13-13-3 pitcher, to spring training u a non-r081er player.
Pittsburgh 27 24 7 61 250 223 12-12-5 15-12-2 
Miami 24 28 .462 lltl2 5-5 Loet 2 t9-6 5-20 17-tB National league
NY Islanders 24 26 7 55 215 229 13-11-5 11-15-2 8-10-4 NewJ...ey 2t 30 .4t2 t2 2-8 Loet t ATLANTA BRAVES-Agreed to terms wKh Tom
t4-11 7-19 12-20 Philadelphia 21 26 11 53 177 194 15-8-7 6-18-4 5-14-5 

Wuhlngton 17 34 .333 18 3-7 Lost 2 8-17 9-17 9-22 Glavlne, pllcher, on a on&-year contract 
Adame Dlvlalon 

Orlando 13 39 .250 20112 2-8 Lost 1 8-17 5-22 9-23 149 23-7-2 12-14-3 16-8-3 PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Agreed to terms wKh
Montreal 35 21 5 75 205 
Central Dtvlalon 9-15-5 12-8-4 Steve Searcy and Toby Borland, pitchers, and
Boston 27 23 8 62 198 200 18-8-3 
Chicago 42 10 .808 5-5 Lost t 23-3 t9-7 27-6 26 56 220 8-16-8 9-11-4 Bruce Dostal and Tony Longmlre, outflelde~. on
Buffalo 23 10 213 t7-10-4 
Cleveland 33 t7 .880 8 6-4 Lost t 2().5 t3-12 28-9 on&-year contrad11.
16 29 10 42 171 197 9-11-8 7-18-2 8-13-4 Detroit 30 38 33 t3-t6-1 0-22-6 6-11-3 PITISBURGH PIRATES-Agreed to terms wKh
Hartford22 .5n 12 7-3 Won 2 18-10 14-12 19-15 

Quebec 13 7 172 233 
25 .5t0 t5 tl2 5-5 Won 2 t5-9 11-16 14-17

Atlanta 28 John Smiley and Bill Landrum, pitchers, on one·
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 

Milwaukee 25 26 .490 18 t/2 6-4 Won 1 20-6 5-20 t&-17 year contracts. 
Norrie Dlvlalon 

Indiana 23 30 .434 t9 t/2 8-2 Won 3 t5-t1 8-19 t3-18 Away Dlv BASKETBALL
w L T Pta GF GA Home 
Charlotte t8 35 .3t4 25 t/2 5-5 Lost t tt-t4 5-2t tt-21 Detroit 32 18 9 73 254 196 20-9-3 12-9-6 13-7-2 NaUonal Baaketball A..oclatlon WESTERN CONFERENCE 25 21 12 62 187 174 17-6-6 8-1!>-6 10-8-4 HOUSTON ROCKETS-Fired Don Chaney, head
Chicago

Mldwaat Dlvlalon 61 19-8-3 7-12-3 coach. Named Rudy Tomjanovich Interim head 
St. Louis 26 24 9 204 197 7-16-6 w 203 16-11-3 9-17-2 10-10-3
L Pd CJ! LtO Streak Home Away Coni coach.
Minnesota 25 28 5 55 187
8-2 Won 4 24-2 t1-16 20-6

Utah 35 t8 .880 219 15-14-2 6-19-3 9-12-2 ConUnentel B..blball A..oclaUon
Toronto 21 33 5 47 167
6-4 Lost 1 17-6 12-16 19-14

San Antonio 29 22 .569 5 OMAHA RACERS-Signed Willie Brand, guard. 
Smythe Dlvlalon 

Houston 28 26 .500 81/2 3-7 Lost 2 17-6 9-18 15-14 United Stetea Baeketball League
Vancouver 30 19 9 69 202 178 17-7-5 13-12-4 15-7-3
t&-11 3-20 t1-22 Los Angeles 24 22 13
Denver t9 3t .380 t4 t/2 3-7 Lost t 61 212 218 13-9-9 11-13-4 10-8-5 USBL-Announced that the New Je~ey Jammers 
36 .294 t9 2-6 Lost t t0-t8 5-18 9-20

DaKu 15 have been awarded a franchise lor the 1992
Winnipeg 24 24 11 59 181 178 15-10-4 9-14-7 8-9-5 
Mlnn•ota to 40 .200 23t/2 3-7 Won t 8-20 4-20 7-24 season.
Edmonton 25 28 7 57 220 229 14-10-3 11-18-4 11-12-4 
Pacific Dlvlalon Calgary 22 27 9 53 212 213 12-8-5 10-t9-4 NEW JERSEY JAMMERS-Named Bob 10-t1-222-6 t4-9 t9-11
Portland 36 t5 .706 8-2 Won t Grossman general manager; Bob Nastase head 
San Jose 13 41 4 30 t50 265 11-14-2 2-27-2 8-15-3t6-7 t5-8 22-tO
Golden State 33 t5 .686 t tl2 7-3 Won 4 coach; Ralph AdlnoKe public relations director· and
Monday'• Game•

20 .623 5-5 2 2t-4 t2-t6 2().t2 '
Phoenix 33 4 Lost Jim Clibanoff director of player personnel. 
Vancouver 3, N.Y. Rangers 3, tie NOTRE DAME 150, MARQUETTE 53 
LA Lake~ 29 22 .569 7 4-6 Lost 4 16-9 t3-t3t9-14 FOOTBALL
N.Y. Islanders 5, Winnipeg 4, OT MARQUETTE (12-11)
9112 7-3 Won t t5-t0 t2-15 17-12

Seattle 27 25 .5t9 National Football League
Los Angeles 6. Boston 3 Gates 4-7 0-0 8, Curry 3-5 0-0 6, Key 5-14 8-1 119-8 7-t7 t6-17
LA Clippers 26 25 .5t0 10 6-4 Won 4 DALLAS COWBOYS-Signed Brad Daluiao,
Detr~ 5, St. Louis 3 18, Miller 1-8 0-1 2, Logterman 3-7 0-0 9, Aamot 0­14-11 3-23 8-23
Sacramento 17 34 . 333 19 5-5 Lost 3 placekicker . 
Montreal8, Minnesota 0 0 0-0 O, Mcilvaine 3-8 2-5 8, Smith 1-5 0-1 2. Totals 
Monday'• Gunea PHILADELPHIA EAGLES-Signed Melvin
Tueaday'e Game• 2().54 10-18 53.
Philadelphia 94, Dallas 90

Atlanta t 17, Washington 110 Patterson, wide receiver, to a one·year contract. 
Late Game Not Included NOTRE DAME (10-11)
Portland 129, Phoenix 116 GENERAL
New York 104, Miami 102 New Jersey 4, Philadelphia 3, OT Ellis 8-9 3-5 19, Taylor ().5 3-4 3, Tower 4-7 2-4Wedneaday'a Game•

Indiana 128, Charlone 117 GOODWILL GAMES-Named David Beckman
Pittsburgh 7, Toronto 1 tO, Bennett 1-7 5-8 8, Sweet !>-94-7 t5, Boyer 1-2 
Cleveland 113, Chicago 1 1 2 Detro~ at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. sales manager and John Dustin director of special
Quebec 4, Minnesota 0 0-0 3, Russell 0-0 0-0 0, Justice 0-0 0-0 0, Jon
Minnesota t24, Ho<.aton 122, OT ChicagO at Orlando, 7:30p.m. projects.
Washington at San Jose, (n) Ross 1-2 0-0 2. Totals 20-41 17-28 80.
Washington at Manta. 7:30 p.m. HOCKEY
Utah 86, Boston 83 Wedneaday'a Gamea Halftlrn&-Notre Dame 28, Marquette 24. 3­

Sacramento at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. National Hockey LeagueSeattle 98. Phoenix 96 Montreal at Hartford, 7:35 p.m. Point goala-Marquette 3-10 (Miller 0-3, 
LA Clippers 124, San Antonio 110 Denver at Charlotte, 8 p.m. CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS-Traded John Tonelli
St. Louis at Winnipeg, 8:35 p.m. Logtemnan 3-5, Smith 0-2), Notre Dame 3-7 
Golden State 116, LA Lake~ 100 Boston at Golden State, 8 p.m. left wing, to the Quebec Nordlques for future ' 
Boston at Calgary, 9:35p.m. (Bennett 1-3, Sweet 1-3, Boyer 1-1). Fouled
Minnesota at San Antonio, 6:30p.m. considerations.
Tueaday'a Gamet~ Los Angeles at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. out-Curry, Tower. Rebounda-Marquette 23

New YOlk 1t0, Sacramento 97 Dallas at Utah, 9:30p.m. LOS ANGELES KINGS-Acquired Steve Weeks,
Buffalo at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. (Smith 8), Notre Dame 38 (LaPhonso t3).
DetroM t17, Orlando 95 LA Lake~ at LA Clippers, t0:30 p.m. goaltender, from the New York Islanders lor a t992
Aulate-Marquette 8 (Miller 6), Notre Dame 12
Milwaukee 128, Cleveland 116 seventh-round entry draft choice. 
(Bennett 4). 
Fetisov's overtime goal gives Devils sixth straight, 4-3 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. in regulation on a goal by Kevin beat the Toronto Maple Leafs 7-Nordiques 4, North Stars 0 first time since Oct. 20, 1990, (AP) -Viacheslav Fetisov Dineen. 1 Tuesday night. QUEBEC (AP) -Owen Nolan when he was in goal for a 5-3 scored on a 45-foot shot from The victory was the ninth in scored his 30th goal and added victory over Detroit. Since that the left circle 1 :42 into overtime 11 games for New Jersey and it The Penguins stopped a 0-4-2 two assists as the Quebec victory, Tanner was the goal­and the New Jersey Devils ended the Flyers' five-game un­skid with their fifth win in the Nordiques, behind John Tan­tender of record in 11 games, rolled to a club-record sixth beaten streak ( 4-0-1). last 20 games. Toronto came ner's first NHL shutout. tying two and losing nine, in­straight win with a 4-3 decision into the game on a 9-2 roll. snapped a 10-game winless cluding an 0-5-1 mark this sea­over the Philadelphia Flyers. string by beating the Minnesota son. 
Penguins 7, Maple Leafs 1 Mullen, who had just five North Stars 4-0. 
Fetisov's third goal of the PITTSBURGH (AP) -Joe goals in 20 games from Dec. 28 Besides ending a personal season capped a wild final Mullen scored three goals in the through Feb. 15, has matched The North Stars, who were drought, Tanner brought relief seven minutes that saw the first period and Ron Francis that total in his last two games. coming off an 8-0 whipping in to the Nordiques, who had only Devils take the lead and then scored twice as the Pittsburgh The hat trick was his third of Montreal a night earlier, man­two ties in their last 10 games have Philadelphia force the Penguins ended a season-worst the season and 1Oth of his ca­aged 32 shots at Tanner. The and had won only once in their overtime with 4.8 seconds left six-game winless streak and reer. Quebec netminder won for the last 19. 
AP File Photo 
Chris Terreri, shown here against Detroit, has not lost in his last nine decisions. The Devils beat the Flyers 4-3 in overtime last night. 
Celebrate 
Black History 
Month with 
Books from 
LIHie Professor 
Enjoy the Voices of a Vast History with 
• 
words that struggle for freedom 

• 
words that offer hope for the Mure 

• 
words that tall o story 


We help vou find books vou'/1/ove. 
Highway 23 at Ironwood Southbend, IN 46637 
(219) 277-4488 Mon.-Sat.: !0:00.9:00 Sun.:I0:00-5:00 
A member ar lhe uu• Pro,__. t.mi)y ef )ocaUy-o'II"'''IICC ~·corea. 


PEACE CORPS SALUTES BLACK HISTORY MONTH AT NOTRE DAME. 
PEACE CORPS INFORMATION TABLE Wed., Feb 19, 12:00 noon-4:00pm. Cen1er of Cominuing Education FREE FILM PRESENTATION Thurs .. Feb. 20, 7:(XJ pm. Center for Social Concern> INTERVIEWS: Tues., March 3, 9:00am-HJO pm. Career Planning & Placemenl Office MINORITY APPLICANTS ARE ENCOURAGED TO APPLY. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION: Call 1-H00-621-3670 Ext. 106 
'·-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Wednesday,February 19, 1992 The Observer page 17 
"Boom-Boom" plans comeback 
NEW YORK (AP) -Actors often do odd-jobs between as­signments. Ray Mancini has de­cided that between roles he will fight. 
Mancini once fought well enough to win a piece of the world lightweight title, but he hasn't fought since March 3, 1989, and that was his only match since he failed to regain the WBA lightweight title Feb. 16, 1985. 
So why, reporters wanted to know, has Mancini decided to fight a tough customer like Greg Haugen, also a former lightweight champion, who has had 20 fights since 1985, three of them last year? 
"Starving actor," Haugen gave as Mancini's reason for signing to fight him a 12-round junior welterweight match April 3 at Reno, Nev. 
Each fighter reportedly will make about $500,000, a sum that would cover a lot of odd­jobs, but Mancini maintains it's not money that is bringing him back. 


With the man they call Boom Boom, it seems the ring lights still shine brighter that the footlights, although in the last 1 1/2 years he has had parts in three films and a role in the off­Broadway play "Sit Down: Conversations with the Mob." 
"I want to see how I stand with the top fighters, right now," the 30-year Mancini said Tuesday at news conference, adding that a hard fight is part of the challenge. 
"I know if I put $20 down (the price for the pay-per-view show is $19.95), I want to know what I'm buying," Mancini said. "I think most fans want to know they're buying an action fight. They want an action fight." 
The styles of the fighters seem to guarantee an action fight. 
Although Mancini hasn't fought since losing a 12-round decision to Hector Camacho, he said he hasn't considered him­self retired. It's just that he's been busy acting and that he couldn't find a fight he wanted. 
''I'm taking it one fight at a time, but I'd like to fight three times this year," Mancini said. ''I'd like go to Europe to fight and then fight Chavez (triple champion Julio Cesar Chavez)," Mancini said. "Who knows?" 
Haugen knows, or thinks he knows. 
"Ray, you couldn't beat me in your prime," Haugen said. "Now you're 10 years past it." 
"You're older than me," Mancini said. 
The 31-year-old Haugen smiled. He looked like actor whose found a good script. 
Dilucia tops Curren, faces Sampras next 
Special to the Observer 
PHILADELPHIA-Notre Dame's David DiLucia defeated Kevin Curren, the 83rd-ranked player in the world and a Wimbledon finalist in 1985, last night at the Philadelphia Spectrum, 7­5, 3-6, 6-4, in the first round of the U.S. Professional Indoor Championships. 
DiLucia, who is ranked sec­ond in singles in the Volvo Collegiate tennis poll, is the only collegiate player in the 48-man field. He will meet Pete Sampras, the 1990 U.S. Open champion and the filth­ranked player in the world, on Wednesday at 7 p.m. 
"It's a tremendous impact on his budding professional career because it shows he can step into the spotlight and perform at a world class level in the middle of a college dual match season," says Irish coach Bob Bayliss. 
DiLucia served his way out of trouble twice in the third set. In two service games, he was down 15-40, but Curren failed to capitalize. 
With Curren serving at 4-5, DiLucia broke him to win the match, but it was not easy. Curren fought off four match points before DiLucia finished him off on the frl'th. 
DiLucia and the Notre Dame team are scheduled to compete at the 20-team National Indoor Collegiate Championships starting Thursday in Louisville, Ky. The lOth-ranked Irish will face ftfth-ranked Florida in a first round match. 

HO MANDEL at STEPAN CENTER, SUN. MAR 1 8:00 P.M. STUDENT TIX ON SALE ilCO) JOO JOO ([)) rn. rn. ({)) \1\V 2 2 ~ at LAFORTUNE INFO. DESK 9:00 A.M. -NUMBERS TO RESERVE PLACE IN LINE DISTRIBUTED 10:00 A.M. -TICKETS ON SALE TICKETS ARE $10.00 {ND/SMC ID REQUIRED, 1 TICKET per ID, 4 ID's per STUDENT} GENERAL ADMISSION SEATING ... DOORS OPEN AT 7:30P.M. NOPASSOUTS _ GENERAL PUBLIC TICKETS -$15.00 ON SALE FRIDAY) I A ;~ 16l) 19Y~ ',{ !iG IIIC [ •4 I [ t~t'  


• --~~-------­
page 18 The Observer Wednesday, February 19, 1992 
USA wins 4-1, moves into semis 
MERIBEL, France (AP) ­Whether the U.S. hockey team is bullying its way through the Olympic tournament or just do­ing what it takes to win, it keeps driving closer to its goal of golden glory. 

Scuffles and skirmishes marked another game but didn't prevent the Americans from beating France 4-1 Tuesday night and moving within one victory of the gold­medal game. 
"The bottom line is we win and people can say whatever they want," U.S. captain Clark Donatelli said. "I don't think we're a dirty team. We're a hard-working team." 
Some French players didn't entirely agree. 
"They didn't play dirty during the game except for five min­utes at the end," Philippe Bozon said. "They have to play physi­cal to be successful. I don't think they're going to stop now." 
The United States (5-0-1) ad­vanced to Friday's semifinal against the winner of Wednesday's Finland-Unified Team game. The Americans, assured of no worse than fourth place, are in the Olympic medal round for the first time since winning the 1980 gold medal. 
While Tuesday's game was less intense than the United States-Sweden match the day before, when U.S. defenseman Greg Brown was sent to the hospital by Mats Naslund's hit against the boards, "it was rough," America's Bret Hedican said. 
With 1:42 to go, the United States' Guy Gosselin and France's Antoine Richer got into a brief fight, but only minor penalties were assessed. Sticks and fists were swung as the benches cleared after the final horn, but order was restored after a few minutes and the 

• More Olympics I page 14 

teams participated in the traditional postgame hand­shake. 
"I doubt people will start thinking of us as ugly Americans," U.S. personnel di­rector Art Berglund said. "They're shaking hands two minutes later, you know what I mean?" 
Well, kind of, Bozon said. 

"I think the players were looking at each other (during the handshakes), wondering if fights were going to start again," he said. 
Added teammate Denis Perez: "Why did they do that at the end of the match when they were leading 4-1 ?" 
Hedican said the Americans just do what they've got to do. 
"We're a fast team and we can skate with anybody and we're a tough team, too," he said. "Teams might just get a little more fight up against us. It goes both ways, you know?" 
Ted Donato scored twice in a 
3:16 span of the second period, breaking open a 1-1 game, si­lencing the home-crowd cheers of "Allez Ia France!" (Go France!) and eliciting chants of "U-S-A! U-S-A!" from a vocal minority of U.S. fans. 
"That's what we needed," Marty Mcinnis said. "The French people were going crazy. It was loud. We needed something to quiet them down." 
Donato also assisted on Mcinnis' third-period goal. 
Ray LeBlanc, who allowed three goals in the final 13:39 of the 3-3 tie with Sweden, made 35 saves. He has allowed only eight goals while playing all 360 minutes of the tournament. 
"I knew he was a great goalie," Mcinnis said. "But I didn't think he was unbelievable like this." 
France (2-4), making its first medal-round appearance, car­ried the olav and scored the only goal of the opening period. 
Stephane Barin, who got into a pushing match with U.S. de­fenseman Moe Mantha while players shook hands after a Feb. 4 pre-Olympic game be­tween the clubs, stole Mantha's blind back-pass in American ice and slapped a shot from the right circle through LeBlanc's pads. 
The U.S. team looked no more inspired early in the second. 
France thought it had taken a two-goal lead after a pileup in front of the net, but referee Georg McCorry said LeBlanc gloved the puck before it crossed the goal line; television replays were inconclusive. 
America got its first power play of the game at 4:03 of the second period and looked lost, as players ran into each other and passes failed to click. 
As the power play neared its end, however, the United States gained control in French ice. Petri Ylonen stopped Sean Hill's shot from the point before Keith Tkachuk lifted the puck over the fallen goaltender, making it 1-1 at 5:43. 
Thanks to Donato, America then gained control of the game. 
He got his first goal at 8:13, kicking in a rebound of Mcinnis' shot. The French protested that the goal should have been disallowed because they felt Donato intentionally kicked the puck in, but McCorry immediately signaled that it was good. 
Mcinnis had a role in the next goal, too, sliding a pass under defenseman Michel LeBlanc in front to Donato, who scored between Ylonen's pads. 
Brown, who suffered a con­cussion, a broken nose and a 12-stitch cut against Sweden, got out of the hospital Tuesday morning but didn't play against France. He might be available Friday. 
@@ UIR{U~IHl 
il{lilJf Jfil{l~ ~IU\~Jill 
Spring Breakin' in 
Panama City, FL $99 Daytona Beach, FL $159 Ft. Lauderdale/Bahamas Cruise $279 Cancun $489 
cail Lance Dawson@ 271-1681 
(~IDA

.MASTERPIECE 
ATKinko'S 99*COLOR 
COPISAJ.E 
FREE a:JPYDAY NovE/t\5ER W 

SPORTS BRIEFS 

•Attention ND/SMC S8111ng team and anyone who likes to sail: There will be a mandatory meeting Monday, February 17, at 
8:15 p.m. in room 204 O'Shaugnessy. Everyone is welcome to attend, including freshmen. 
•The 
new Bookstore Basketball commissioner for 1992 is Andy Sinn, and the following people have been named assistant commissioners: Theresa Forst, Bobby Sullivan, Pat Coleman, Allen Echiverri, John O'Rourke, John Neal, Dan Gutchewsky, and Scott Buccellato. Congratulations to everyone. 

•Attention 
all freshmen: The Student Managers Organization will have an informational meeting for all interested in assisting the men and women athletes of Notre Dame. The meeting will be held Wednesday, tonight at 8 p.m. ln the Loftus FootbaJl Auditorium. Any questions please call the Manager's Office at 239­6482. 

•Attention 
Rowing Club: There will be an important meeting today at 7:30 in room 120 Cushing. Spring break balances are due. 

fibe NO Cricket Club will not have practice this week. 

•Mixed 
tennis mixer: Play mixed doubles for fun with other students on Monday nights at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Sign-up individually by calling RecSports at 239-6100 before noon Friday. Pairings will be displayed at the courts and play starts at 9 p.m. 

•Attention 
ND/SMC Equestrian Club: Anyone interested in showing this weekend at the Indiana University Horse Show in Bloomington, please contact Larissa at 289-7829. 

•Sign-ups 
for the Bookstore Basketball Tournament will be held this Sunday, February 23, from 1-5 p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shaugnessey. Teams should bring two team names. two captain 


REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE 
~ 

~ ATTENTION ALL 
~ 

~ CLUB PRESIDENTS 
~ 
~ 

~ The 1992...93 Registration and ~ Budget packets will be ~ available to be picked up from the ~ Club Coordination Council office ! ~ (room 206 LaFortune) on ~ Feb. 17... Feb.19. ~ The packets must be completed ~ and returned by Wed. March 4. ~ No exceptions!! All social service ~ & graduate clubs must also ~ pick up their forms from ~ the CCC office. 
"' 
SO ICREATED1HIS PoPARr Mt\Sl~RPIEt.E W\11\ KINKO'.S 99? COLOR COPIES ... 
Q 
w 

Kanil)s· -mf COPYC£NITR ·18/87 SfATE RD.23 (ZI1) Z71-03'J8 ·fREE' CDPIES '!¥:JJ. 2o. COMPLETF DEV\ILS AT STORE' 

---------~-------------~~-~--~-----------------------~ 
Wednesday, February 19, 1992 The Observer page 19 
BILL WATIERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
n~ o~ mrc.
'«~~ QO

\\-II'S IS I'll~ SNCIN SC\l\.'?1\JR't., 
C\JTI\f\IG E\lGt
''\30\JR:;~O\S 9U~t:ooN ." CAN 
'iO\J !'-~tiD 

a: t>.RI.' M'l
f>.. GR/>.NI ::>

'iOO ~LID/E. MOM ~Jt::CIIOD 
JOHN MONKS

SPIN 

CAMPUS 



DOWN  
1 Let  
2 Famous resort city3 Jazz date  
4 -judicata5 Lung ailment 6 Rude ones  
7 Mr.  Lincoln of  
silent films  
8 Makes free  
9 Jewel  
10 Writer Waugh 11 In the wee hours  
12 Supposition 13 Work place 21 Domesticate  
22  - all  ties  
25 Legal order 27 Lawrence, for short  
29 Cubic meter  
30 Magic 31 Stirred up 32 Julia Ward  - 
33 Golfer Dave  ---­ 
34 "-'s Irish Rose"  
35 Well-known movie  
studio  
38 Expensive 39 ll.ppear 41 Drink slowly 42 Skidded  
44 Feel indignant 45 Swindles  
ACROSS 24 Indian huts 1 U.S.A. (abbr.) 26 Trust 5 Biblical name 28 Miss Bombeck 9 Very cold 29 Southern city 14 Game of bowling 33 Former first 15 Single performance! lady 16 Escape 35 ll.bsolute 17 Sees who breaks, 36 -trip  41 ll.gltates . 42 Twilled fabr1c 43 Fetch 45 Nile queen, for short 46 Fencing sword 47 Gleam 50 Voice part  60 Bette Davis movie, .. The -" 61 "I smell -" 62 Religious image 63 ll.dventure tale 64 Eats an ice-cream cone 65 Physics unit  47 Watchband 48 -John 49 French queen 50 Loud noise 51 Wings 52 Is peccant 54 Subtle emanation 57 Comedian Louis -59 ll.ssist  
in pool 18 Sepulcher 19 Doles 20 Pathology suffix 21 Pangs  37 Help 38 Scornful look 39 Flat-bottomed vessel 40 Japanese money  53 Talked excessively55 Bar order 56 Strange58 Koran chapter 59 Prefix for social  


Wednesday 
7:30 p.m. Readings, "Sesquicentennial Year Poetry Contest Winners." Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by English Department. 8 p.m. "NeXT User group," presentation. Drawing program for NeXT. Rm. 14 of Center for Continuing Education. Sponsored by Office of University Computing. 
8:10 p.m. Play, "Our Town," directed by Mark Pilkinton. Washington Hall. Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication Theatre. 
LECTURES 
Wednesday 
6:30 p.m. "How to Obtain Summer Internships," Paul Reynolds, Career and Placement Services. Room 124 Hayes Healy Center. 
Thursday 
11 a.m.-4 p.m. "Careers in Social Work." Main Lobby, Lemans Hall, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by The Social Action Club, Department of Sociology, Anthropology and Social Work, Saint Mary's College and the National Association of Social Workers. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Stir Fry Beef & Green Peppers Turkey Turnovers Fettucini Alfredo 

CampuS-Wide Bkatlng Part}l 
10:30-12:30 at the J.A.C.C. 25( skate rentals & FREE HOT CHOCOLATE!! 
t_ _ 

Ski Trip to 

CabaTfaa 51ti R.rso'rt 
Package includes: Overnight accommodations at the Days Inn 
• Free Continental Breakfast (Sunday AM) 
• Discount on Ski Rentals 
• Two-day lift ticket 
ONLY $65!! 

Sign-ups for the Caberfae Ski Trip 


Wednesday, February 19, 1992 

Irish struggle past Marquette 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR LaPhonso Ellis led the Irish six straight from the charity Sports Writer with 19 points on 8-9 shooting, stripe to close the lead to one and tore down 13 boards, while before Boyer's shot went 
Notre Dame fought a post­center Keith Tower scored 10 through. victory letdown and overcame points and 10 rebounds. Dai­Coming off of a big win at inconsistent play to defeat the mon Sweet added 15 points for Syracuse on Saturday, and with Marquette Warriors 60-53 last Notre Dame. UCLA the next obstacle on the night at the Joyce ACC. Irish guard Elmer Bennett Irish schedule, Notre Dame 
The Irish found themselves in struggled in the game, scoring faced an especially imposing a close contest throughout, but only eight points on 14 percent challenge in Marquette. Brooks Boyer's three-pointer shooting. In Notre Dame's last "We wanted to keep our little with just under two minutes meeting with Marquette, Ben­string going," said MacLeod. remaining in the game pushed nett led the Irish with 23 points "We are building some momen­the Irish lead to four, and ended "If you had told me Bennett tum and it's good to see. Our the final Warrior attack. was going to go 1-7, I would guys put a lot of work and effort 
"Brooks loves pressure situa­have said we were going to into this." tions," said Irish coach John have to have a good chance to The Irish effort was especially MacLeod. "The ball was passed win this one," said Warrior noticeable on defense. 
-·. 
to him and he had no hesitation coach Kevin O'Neill. Marquette was held to 37 per­whatsoever. He just jumped up Marquette led 41-40 with only cent from the field, and often and pulled the trigger." eight minutes left when Notre had trouble getting good shots. 
Notre Dame led 51-47 after Dame scored eight straight. But "The encouraging thing is we the hoop and never looked suddenly coming alive at the did a solid enough job defen­back. free-throw line, the Warriors hit 
see HOOPS/page 15 

Notre Dame wins 99th meeting, 60-53 
By JIM VOGL riors, the second in under a not want his team to unravel. Sports Writer month and the fourth straight. Marquette, coming in with a Back on January 21, Notre comparable 12-10 record, 
After 82 years, wines be­Dame stunned a crowd of would be a good benchmark for comes vintage; college basket­15,431 at Milwaukee's Bradley judging the progress of the ball rivalries become bitter. Center, as the visitors stormed Irish. 
Notre Dame and Marquette back from a 45-27 halftime For the Warriors, the game are schools quite similar both in deficit and prevailed, 69-63. was a quest for revenge. It both academics and basketball: So last night's contest was would also test the progress of both excellent private Uni­more than a traditional rivalry. head coach Kevin O'Neil's youth versities located in the Midwest, For the Irish, it was a chance movement. O'Neil sent out a both historically rich in basket­for the now 10-11 team to starting lineup that included ball. prove they can play consistently two freshmen, two sophomores 
The two teams met for the in a season of ups and downs. and a junior. 
99th time in a rivalry that dates After coming together and But, like the annual Army­back to February 1, 1919, and playing up to their potential Navy football games or the bi­the Irish escaped with their against Syracuse, first year annual North Carolina-Duke 73rd victory against the War-head coach John MacLeod did see RIVALRY/page 15 
By JASON KELLY have helped Schwab make the however, and her success has Sports Writer adjustment. made her happy that she chose "I never dreamed I'd be play­Notre Dame to continue her ca­
Freshmen seldom make an ing number two," she ex­reer. immediate impact in a varsity plained, "but we have a lot of "It was a very tough choice sport, but that's not the case depth and we're a close team for me," Schwab said. "It just with women's tennis player and the older players have came down to the fact that Laura Schwab. helped me handle it pretty Notre Dame had the best com­
Considering her credentials, it well." bination of academics and ath­should come as no surprise that She will have the opportunity letics." Schwab has taken over the to prove just how well she is Because of her success this number two singles spot for the handling it this weekend season, some pretty lofty ex­Irish in her rookie season. against 15th-ranked Tennessee. pectations will follow her as her 
A two-time Kentucky state Wins and losses do not weigh career continues, but through singles champion, she was un­too heavily on Schwab's mind at hard work she believes that she defeated in her junior and se­this point in her career, can live up to them. nior years and was named the however. Instead, she concen­state's outstanding high school trates on playing as well as she "I have a pretty strong mental athlete in 1991. can, although she admits her game and I'm a pretty good 
Despite her impressive cre­competitiveness does not allow baseliner," she said. "My vol­dentials, it has not been an easy her to take losing very well. leying is getting better, but I just transition to the collegiate level. have to keep improving and 
"It was a big change," Schwab "Everybody's basic role is just keep trying to help the team commented. "I wasn't sure to do their best," she added. "If win." what to expect being the only we all give 100 percent, the There is a long way to go this freshman, but I think I'm wins will come. I am very, very season and in Schwab's career, adjusting better this semester." competitive, though, and I just so the women's tennis team can 
Depth is an important at­hate losing." look forward to many more tribute of this year's team, and She has not had to deal with wins from the number two sin­the experienced upperclassmen losing too often this season, gles spot. 
Olivet snaps SMC basketball's winning streak, 72-63 
By CHRIS BACON stead of taking the ball to ball out of the paint were points. ting stronger every game." 
Sports Writer them," said Belles coach Don missed as the Lady Comets "I think that Catherine felt a The Belles stayed even in the Cromer. forced 23 Saint Mary's lot of pressure on her and she opening minutes of the first All good things must come to " We tried our hardest. We turnovers. did well. She's doing what we've half. However, Olivet's towering an end. just couldn't matchup in size," "I think the big thing was the asked her to do. I think she will guards proved too intimidating The Saint Mary's basketball added Belles center Julie Sny­size. They played three big have a good game for us on for the Belles. The Lady Comets team's four game win streak der. players and they took it to us," Saturday against Kalamazoo," built up a 10 point lead with was snapped last night in visit­Absent from the Belles lineup explained Cromer. "We lost Cromer said. 2:17 in the half. The Lady 
ing Olivet College's (12-10) 72-last night was senior forward Janet inside and that helped Snyder turned in another fine Comets stretched the lead to 14 63 onslaught in the Angela Ath­Janet Libbing. Libbing leads the them. When you lose someone performance last night un­at the half, 42-28. letic Facility. Belles in rebounds, with 125, who plays 35 minutes, it doesn't derneath. Snyder blocked eight "We'd run the fast break and 
This was the second time this and is the team's second lead­help." shots and grabbed 10 more re­then we'd slow it down. We 
season the Lady Comets de­ing scorer, averaging 15.7 "We missed Janet's strength," bounds for the Belles. haven't got it into our minds to feated the Belles. In the cham­points per game. In the earlier added senior forward Catherine "Julie played her finest game run it all the time," explained pionship game of the Saint matchup against Olivet, Libbing Restovich. "Those girls were tonight. She's improved every Cromer. "We had a couple of Mary's Roundball Classic in De­contributed 18 points and 10 huge!" game," remarked Cromer about cold spots, we missed six or 
cember, Olivet squeaked passed rebounds. Restovich and Snyder led the his starting center. "She finally seven in a row. They hit five in the Belles 84-81. Aside from her ability on Belles balanced offensive efforts said about four or five games a row. Then we hit another cold "I think we got a little tired boards, Libbing's quickness on with 14 points. Junior center ago that this is fun. Since then, spot right before the half." and we started hesitating in-the boards and ability to get the Kim Holmes added another 10 she is more relaxed. She is get-see SMC/page 15 





