-----~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

Jenny Stimson aides Pamela Smith , a second grader at Perley School in South Bend, with her reading at the Saint Mary's College Reading Center. 
Callahan found guilty of election violations 
By BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 
After investigation of alleged campaign violations, the Stu­dent Senate Election Ethics Committee found District 3 (North Quad) Student Senator elect Tim Callahan guilty of hanging unauthorized posters and unethical behavior and, as penalty, requires him to forfeit his candidacy and pay a fine. 
Stanford Hall sophomore Alan Nicgorski, Callahan's op­ponent in the run-off election, filed complaint with Travis Reindl, election commissioner, because several actions of Callahan's campaign "appear(ed) to violate several of the strictures placed upon candidates in the Bylaws of the constitution of the Student Government." 
Nicgorski charged that Callahan had hung handwrit­
ten, unauthorized posters in Keenan, Cavanaugh and Farley Halls. which included defaming and derogatory remarks and spread rumors to the effect that Nicgorski had violated campaign spending rules, had attempted to "buy votes" and that Reindl was an "under the table operative of the Nicgorski campaign." 
According to Callahan, the unauthorized posters were hung without his consent or knowledge. 
"It wasn't like I approved these posters," he said. He said he had attempted to remove the posters as soon as he learned of them, but they had already been taken down. 
The ethics committee deter­mined that these posters were in violation of the Bylaw regu­lations concerning unautho­
see SENATE I page 6 
N D student charged for assaulting other student 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT 
News Writer 
After being charged with criminal recklessness for assaulting another student in January, Notre Dame student Billy Hunter has been scheduled to go to trial on June 18, according to prosecutor, Michael Barnes, office. 
Hunter, a member of the wrestling team, appeared in court March 6 to find out his trial date. According to the prosecutor's office. he will appear before the judge on June 18 to plead guilty or not guilty to the charge. 
If Hunter pleads guilty, the trial will be held on June 18. Should he plead not guilty, he will go to trial on June 28. He will be represented by Defense Attorney Richard Kirk. 
Hunter's charge of criminal recklessness is a Class-D felony. It stems from an incident on Jan. 18 when Hunter struck another sturlent with a ceramic beer mug at Bridget McGuire's Filling Station. 
The victim received deep facial lacerations and required fifty stitches as a result of the attack. Police reported an "on­going problem between the victim and the suspect" as a possible cause for the assault. 
If Hunter is found guilty of the charge, he faces a minimum six-month prison term. He could be sentenced up to three years for the assault, according to the prosecutor's office. 
Notre Dame wrestling coach Fran McGann could not be reached for comments or reactions to the charges against Hunter. 
Williams predicts de Klerk's 
S. African referendum will win 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI 
Associate News Editor 
One informed source predicts that today's South African ref­erendum asking for the support of white South Africans in abolis,hing apartheid and establishing a new constitution will pass. 
Associate Provost Father Oliver Williams returned Friday from a two week trip to South Africa as a representative of the National AdYisory Council to 
U.S. firms with operations in South Africa and predicted a win for President de Klerk and his referendum. 
"I think there will be a 'yes' vote by a 57 percent margin," predicted Williams who met with officials of the African Na­tional Congress (ANC) as well as representatives of U.S. com­generally widespread support for the referendum." 
"Most of the whites think he (president F.W. de Klerk) is. on the right track," added Williams. 
What he believes they are in support of is continued negoti­ations to rework the current constitul:KI.n and create an in­terim government which will have black representation. 
The referendum itself reads: "Do you support continuation of the reform process which the State President began on February 2, 1990, and which is aimed at a new constitution through negotiation?" 
The vote is open only to the potential electorate of nearly 
3.3 million whites. Meanwhile, the black population, which ex­ceeds 85 percent of the. state's total population, will sit and 
Student Senate approves revision of undergrad student constitution 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL 
News Writer 
The Student Senate last night overwhelmingly approved a revised version of the Student Body constitution. 
The constitution, officially known as the Constitution of the Undergraduate Student Body of the University of Notre Dame, outlines the the struc­ture and p,rocedures of student government. 
It had been under the review of a special committee of the senate since last October. The aim of the committee, accord­ing to student body vice presi­dent David Florenzo was to clarify the language contained in the document. 
"There were many inconsis­tencies within the document that gave people fits," Florenzo said. 
The result of the committee's work is, according to Florenzo, a simplified document that "will make it easier for (members of student government) to work with each other." 
The senators approved the new constitution last night by a 14 to 1 vote. 
The only senator who voted against the new constitution last night was David Certo of South Quad. Certo said he was opposed to the document be­cause it does not call for all meetings of student govern­ment to be made open to the public. 
The revised consitution must be approved by the Hall Presi­dent's Council (HPC) before it can go into effect. 
In other business last night, the senate heard HPC co-chair Charlie James announce that Weekend Wheels will be in op­eration during today's St. Patrick's Day festivities. Buses will run from 3 p.m to 6 p.m. and from 10 p.m. to 3 a.m. Students can call 283-FRED for a complete schedule as well as a list of pick-up points. 
The senate also voted to con­firm Matt Cenedella as the new general manager of the Student Business Board. Cenedella, a Morrissey Hall junior, currently serves as an assistant general manager of the board. 

wait. Nelson Mandela and other
panies located in South Africa. Father Oliver Williams shown here with the National Advisory Council recently returned from South Africa "Just listening to people in the where he met with the council. Council I members are (left to right) Williams, George Schroll, Gatsha 
see WILLIAMS I page 4 
street I found that there was Buthelezi. Melvin Miller, the Deputy minister of health (name unavailable) and Ned Munger. 
Tuesday, March 17, 1992
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Answers to 
your Ob.server 
quest1ons 
This week marks a 
yearly turning point for The Observer. With the passing of mid-semester vacation comes the passing of control at the newspaper to the new editor-in-chief and 

general board. MONICA YANT But some things never change. Questioning the Editor-in-Chief motives and justification for Observer articles and policies IS a pastime for many at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Here are three of the most-asked questions about The Observer, answered to the best of this editor's ability: 
•Why do you put stories about Student Senate and electrical engineering lectures on the front page every day when there is bigger news going on in the world? 
The answer seems obvious, yet it is sur­
prising how many people fail to understand 
that The Observer is first and foremost a 
campus publication. 
As the only daily source of news for Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's, it is our responsibility 
to inform the community about the 
community, from the Saint Mary's student 
body election to the Notre Dame sailing club. 
Only then do we turn to Associated Press 
news. 
The bottom line is that students can-and do-read about world and national news in The Chicago Tribune and The New York Times. Whether they can say the same about coverage of big issues in their community is another story. 
•Why didn't you cover (insert important event)/ or Why did you cover (insert semi­controversial event)? 
If we didn't cover something, chances are 
we didn't know about it. The best way to 
ensure that your event is covered is to let us 
know yourself. Even with over 200 people 
working for The Observer, it's possible for 
something to get by us. We're not perfect, and 
never claimed to be. 
When we do cover issues that are off-the­
beaten-track, such as an athlete's 
indiscretions or a faculty member's mysterious 
resignation, there's a reason that goes much 
deeper than the personal bias or slanted 
'ournalism Observer editors might be accused 
of. 
It's an issue of responsibility-to the stu­dents, alumni. faculty and staff who look to The Observer to inform and explain. If we know it, know it's true, and know it's newsworthy, we owe it to our readers to print it. It's as simple as that. 
•Why didn't you print my letter to the editor? 
While we're thrilled that reader response is 
up this year, the Viewpoint department is 
inundated with letters that are often about the 
same topics (ie: Pangborn, abortion, the 
basketball team). 
Every effort is made to print every letter, but 
in cases where letters seem to repeat the 
same argument, the best stated and most 
thought-provoking are chosen. Brevity and 
clarity are also a concern. • • 
Questions like these are bound 'toarise for the 1992-93 year, as are many others. As the year progresses, I will periodically address key concerns in this column as a mean to better inform the community about the "how's and why's" of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: Sports: 
Production: Ouaalude Cynthia Ehrhardt Viewpoint: 
FORECAST:  
Cloudy and cool with a 40 percent chance of morning showers. High in the middle 40s low  
in the middle 20s.  
TEMPERATURES:  
H  L  
Amarillo  79  42  
Anchorage Birmingham Bogala Boise  42 63 70 49  21 26 52 34  
Brownsville  75  64  
Burlington. VI. Cairo Caharlotte, N.C.  25 68 53  09 52 27  
Ciorpus Christi Daytona Beach Dharan  75 59 79  61 50 57  
Flagstaff Havana  55 75  23 68  
Indianapolis Kiev  50 41  19 28  
Las Vegas Lima Mpls-St. Paul Oslo  71 84 47 43  51 70 22 27  
Sacramento  62  45  
Salt Lake C~y San Diego South Bend Taipei Toledo  63 66 43 86 41  47 54 17 58 12  
p,..,.  Washington. D.C. Warsaw  38 36  21 27  
H  L.  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
':·.::::·::.  

TODAl' AT AGLANCE 

OF INTERE!tT 
•The 
Feast Clf Saint Patrick Mass will be celebrated at the University of Notre Dame with Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart today at 5 p.m. The Notre Dame Folk Choir, accompanied by a Celtic drum, Irish harp, a string ensemble and organ, will provide traditional Irish and Gaelic liturgical music for the Mass. The presiding celebrant will be Father David Tyson, president of the University of Portland. 

•Professor 
Jlohn Finnis, of Oxford, England, will speak on "Justice Intention and Economic Analysis of Law" at noon Wednesday, March 18 in room 220 of the Law School. 

•Post 
graduate volunteer opportunities information a"Vailable on Wednesday, March 18, from 4:30-5 p.m. There will be discussion and general information about the value of p~st-graduation volunteerism, programs available, loan deferments, job deferments. A question and answer period will follow the session which will be held at the CeDiter for Social Concerns. 


MARKET UPDATE 
•Attention 
seniors applying to the Holy Cross Associates Volunteer Program. Domestic applications are due this Friday, March 20. Drop them at the Center for Social Concerns or put in campus mail care of Holy Cross Associ­ates Program, Moreau Seminary. 

•A 
table tennis tournament sponsored by the South Bend YMCA Table Tennis Club will be held Saturday and Sunday at Scottsdale Mall. Entry fee for the 19-24 age (college) division is $3.00. Questions? Call Brad Balmer at 654-8345. 

•A 
Fine Arts Fund Concert will be held by WSND-FM Sunday, March 22, at 7:30 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. Tickets for the first annual concert are $5 for adults, $2 for students and senior citizens and can be purchased at the LaFortune Information Desk. The concert will benefit WSND-FM, a student run radio station. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• In 461: According to tradition, St. Patrick -the patron saint of Ireland -died in Saul. 
•In 1935: The German Reich arrested 700 pastors. 
• 
In 1950: Scientists at the University of California at Berkeley announced they had created a new radioactive ele­ment, which they named californium. 

• 
In 1966: A U.S. midget submarine located a missing hydrogen bomb that had fallen from an American bomber into the Mediterranean off Spain. 

• 
In 1969: Golda Meir became prime minister of Israel. 


Melissa Cusack Guy Loranger News: Cheryl Moser Frank Rivera Accent: Meredith Laurie Sessa McCullough Gerrie Hamilton Jennifer Habrych Cheryl Moser Systems: Lab Tech: The Czar Pat McHugh 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/March 16 VOLUME IN SHARES 
N~~;~DEX 1} 0.14
151,316,300 
S&P COMPOSITE 
406.39 1}-0.55 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3236.36 1? 0.45 PRECIOUS METALS GOLD-f $ 3.40 to $343.30/oz. SILVER-.9--3.7¢ to $4.06oz. 

--~·--------------------~------~~--------­
Tuesday, March 17, 1992 The Observer page3 

Criminal probe of House bank disclosed 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The government auditors to review wrote "do not correspond to the government has opened a crim-the records. figures we have. Our figures are inal investigation of activity at "I have never bounced a somewhat lower." the House bank, a spokesman check," said Mrazek, a candi­Rep. Robert Davis, R-Mich., for the U.S. attorney's office date for the Senate in New also felt there were errors but said Monday -a new turn in York, in a statement that com­was 1'putting his emphasis on the scandal that already had plained he was being lumped getting in front of his con­lawmakers struggling to cush-with "congressmen who chron­stituents," said spokesman ion political fallout from their ically and deliberately wrote William Blaul. Davis, who has thousands of bad checks. huge overdrafts when there admitted writing 878 bad 
"We are reviewing allegations were no funds in their account." checks, was stressing "the level of possible criminal conduct" If Mrazek was in a fighting of ineptness" of the bank's involving the bank, said Mark mood, Rep.. Charles Wilson, D­recordkeeping, Blaul said. Liedl, spokesman for U.S. At-Texas, and David Obey, D-Wis., torney Jay Stephens. Liedl were in a giving frame of mind. The House ethics committee would not say who might be in-Wilson told a news conference is permitting any account volved or what type of conduct he would donate more than holder at the now-closed bank was under investigation. $2,000 to charities -$25 for to review his or her bank 
A spokesman for Rep. each check listed as an records. Members are expected Matthew F. McHugh, D-N.Y., overdraft. Information from the to catch errors, committee who ran the House ethics House ethics committee list members said, because the committee inquiry into over-provided to The Associated bank often delayed crediting drafts at the bank, said McHugh Press said he had 81 of them. deposits. had heard nothing about a And an "upset and embar­criminal investigation. rassed" Obey said he had paid The committee said 296 cur­
Liedl said it was begun last $1,300 to the House clerk re­rent and 59 former members fall after a General Accounting fleeting about $20 each for 64 had written at least one bad Office audit. The GAO said cur-bad checks he said he and his check during the 39 months rent and former House mem-wife had written. ended Oct. 3. hers had written 8,331 checks "I don't care where it goes," backed by insufficient funds Obey said of the money. "I sim­Only a handful of insufficient from July 1989 through June ply wanted us to pay the same fund checks ever were returned 1990. overdraft fee that would be paid by the bank. All others were
Samuel Betances enthusiastically speaks in his lecture "The Many 
That audit led to a five-month by anybody else." honored, paid for from addi­
Faces of the Hispanic" yesterday in the Library Auditorium. The 
House ethics committee investi-While many lawmakers tional deposits by the overdraft
lecture was sponsored by the Office of Minority Student Affairs. 
gation that has members combed through microfilm and writer or the funds of other 
scrambling to explain their  paper records, others decided  members.  
overdrafts.  to stay in their districts to con­ 
GI!tii~~'~:;~:~X'C"l!~'~'NIK'i:~JC(~NII'('MIK'>.~;~~JC(;X4P  Meanwhile on Monday, law- front the problem with con­ Twenty-four lawmakers were  
makers sifted through sloppily  stituents and local media.  labeled as abusers, but some  
kept records from the bank in  A  spokesman  for  Rep.  were fighting the allegation.  
hopes of finding evidence that  Stephen Solarz, D-N.Y., who has  

could soften the political dam-admitted writing a large For example, MrazekJPmLOSOPHY age from an epidemic of check number of bad checks, said, spokesman Thomas Barry said kiting. "Reaction from the district has the lawmaker had Rep. Robert Mrazek, D-N.Y., been mixed, but a number of "documentary evidence" toJPOLITICS & listed by the House ethics people said 'hang in there."' prove he did not write 972 committee as the author of 972 Solarz was not claiming inno-overdrafts, the number in ethics overdrafts in 39 months, ar-cence, but his spokesman, committee records. Mrazek had
lmcONOMICS ranged to bring his lawyer and Robert Hathaway, said the 7 43 been informed he was on the accountant to a meeting with bad checks that sources said he abuser list, according to Barry. 
r••••••••••••••••••••••,.,.•••••••••••-. 
PPE: A CONCENTRATION FOR STUDENTS MAJORING IN PHILOSOPHY, I THE TH 0 MAS J . WHITE I GOVERNMENT, OR ECONOMICS DEALING WITH THOSE AREAS IN WHICH THE I cENTER I THREE DISCIPLINES OVERLAP. I I THE PROGRAM IS DESIGNED TO FOSTER DISCIPLINED INTELLECTUAL 1-0 N LAw AND GO VERN MEN T I DEBATE AND INTERCHANGE AMONG THEORETICALLY REFLECTIVE I PRESENTS I 
STUDENTS AND FACULTY IN THE THREE DISCIPUNES. I I Brochures: available in the 3 Departments 
: PROFESSOR JOHN M. FINNIS : 1 UNIVERSITY COLLEGE 1
DEMAND OFTEN EXCEEDS THE PlACES AVAILABLE 
I OXFORD, ENGLAND I
TO RESERVE A PL-\CE: 
I ON I
OBTAIN AN AUTHORIZATION# WELL BEFORE REGISTRATION 
: "JUSTICE INTENTION AND : 
For details and an authorization il see: 
1ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF LAW" I 
PROF. E. A. GOERNER 
; THURSDAy, MARCH 19 I
l -5 PM 434 DECIO or call: 233 -l647 
1 12:00 NOON 1 
I 
I 
LENTEN RETREAT FOR FACULTY 
~ 
, <.~ClhS 
!{t\ ;>i.
20 -21 March 1992 
8:00 pm Friday -9:00 pm Saturday 
Offered by: David Burrell, C.S.C. and John Gerber, C. S.C. 
,, 
A time of quiet and personal reflection, the retreat will include opportunity for shared reflection. Presentations will focus on the Sunday scripture readings of Lent. 
Single and married faculty (and· spouses) of all faiths are welcome. 
LOCATION: Andre Hall, Holy Cross College, on 
N. Michigan opposite WNDU. Single and double rooms. 
~ $25 per person, meals included. 
RESERVATIONS: . By Thursday, March 19 to 239-5242 or inquire of John Gerber at 
•• 239-8606. 
Hey Baseball Fans! 
pA announcer needed for 
otre Dame baseball games If you are interested, please submit a tape to: Bill Scholl ~ Sports Marketing Dept. 
... JACC 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Share in their 
growth to full 
manhood 
Fr. Ulick Bourlte, SMA SMA Fathers, Dept.· NDO 500 Everett Ave., Monterey Partt, CA 91754 818-280-M67 
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, March 17, 1992 
"A 'no' vote means all major countries will increase their
Williams 
sanctions on South Africa. And Bush has said that South Africa 
continued from page 1 
will be treated like Iraq should a 'no' vote win," said Williams. 
leaders of the black majority In the Wits University studentsupport the referendum despite paper, students expressed var­its apparent hypocrisy. 
ied views about theMandela has stated that "if 
referendum: "If you say no
whites make a mistake and vote you're a bit screwed," said one; for reprnssion, the country is in "I can't believe he's (de Klerk) 
• for a hard time." He has pre­being allowed to spend over 12
dicted turmoil in the form of million rand's worth of taxstrikes and protests more se­
payers' money to hold a racist vere than the nationwide strike 
referendum," added another;
by blacks last Nov. 
"It is important for whites to
A March 16 New York Times 
vote and back the reform-we
story reported that some blacks don't want a return to the dark 
say that rather than submit ages of apartheid," said
again to apartheid, they will 
another. 
resume the guerilla struggle 
Meanwhile, in his role as athat the congress suspended in representative of the NationalAug. 1990. 
Advisory Council, Williams
Mandela and other black rep­
worked to encourage all U.S.
resentatives of the Convention firms in South Africa to askfor a Democratic South Africa their employees to vote 'yes.'
(Codesa) emphasize that the 
In a letter drafted for U.S.
negotiations of Codesa are of companies to present to their
greatest importance. 
employees, company officials"The black leadership wants urge a 'yes' vote: "A majorityto negotiate," said Williams, "to 
No vote will lead to direct
them a 'no' vote is unthink­black-white confrontation,
able." Williams also added that which will bring this country tothe black negotiators look at the 
its knees through drastically
all-white referendum as at least 
increased violence, renewed 
a step in the right direction. 
sanctions and international os­
According to Williams, the 
tracism."
National Party has been vigor­ously advertising in newspapers 
Despite the fervent advertis­for support of this referendum. 
ing and apparent widespread
Advertisements threaten voters support of the moderate whites,that a 'no' vote could mean the 
former president P.W. Botha
severest sanctions South Africa 
announced he would vote
has ever known. 
Help Prevent Birth Defects­
The Nation's Number One 
Child Health Problem. 
"'"' M_Supp...O'rCh of Dimes
\lf:l BIRJH DEF£CTS FOUNDATION-illi 
Happy22d 
wocruGu@Jff!~ ~ 
Patrick Birge! 
You give new meaninn to getting down and dirty in the sand! 
Some employers promise! youthe-world. We offer you achance to make the worldbetter. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
against the referendum. Ac­cording to Williams. though, "Botha has let his membership in the National Party lapse, and everybody has known that he doesn't have any confidence in de Klerk." 
Other opposition to the refer­endum has been manifested in the Conservative party which fears a communist takeover if the referendum passes. Accord­ing to the New York Times, Die­hard whites have threatened to fight rather than live under a black majority government dominated by the ANC. 
"We will not negotiate with the ANC as they are communist­inspired and trained terrorists," said Eugene TerreBlanche, leader of the Afrikaner Resistance movement, a neo-Nazi parliamentary group, in a New York Times story yesterday. "If we have to deal with them then it will be over the barrel of a gun." 
According to Williams, the country will be on the verge of a revolution if the referendum does not pass. The recent out­break of violence, though, has been mostly a result of the Afrikaner Resistance Movement lead by TerreBlanche. On March 7, several thousand whites attended a rally. lead by the Afrikaner Hesistance Movement, against the refer­endum. 
One poster of the movement, according to Williams. shows de Klerk kneeling before Mandela; a sign of the resistance movement's fear of a black takeover. 
But Williams added that in discussions with members of the ANC, a positive attitude about the referendum was ex­pressed and Mandela has promised a communist takeover will never occur. 
"We asked the ANC when they thought the interim government would be established and they said they hoped by August." He added that Mandela and Gatsha Buthelezi. chief minister of the Zulus and president of the Inkatha Freedom Party, are likely candidates for the interim government's eabinet. 
Williams added that he hopes to receive news of the results of the referendum by late Tuesday night. 

with 
ACCESS DENIED 
at 
ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
Tuesday, March 17 9 p.m. -l a.m. All Students Welcome-­
NEED NOT BE 21 ! ! 
FREE Admission! NO COVER CHARGE! 
Summer ded ~elp.N~rica 
Ul IiJ1i1l 
Mexico, Ecuador, Paraguay, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Brazil 
Work • Share • Live • Learn 
You can have a summer full of adventure 
Write or call:
and personal growth while improving 
Amigos de las Americas 
health for people of Latin America ... 
5618 Star Lane Houston, Texas 77057 
Volunteer! 
800/231-7796 Spaces still available for 713n82-5290 this summer. Call Today! 

Tuesday, March 17, 1992 
Gays plan protest march before St. Patrick's parade 
NEW YORK (AP) -A federal judge refused Monday to order St. Patrick's Day parade orga­nizers to accept a homosexual group in the event, but t)Je gays said they'll be on Fifth Avenue anyway-to demonstrate. 
"We're not going to go away," said Paul O'Dwyer, spokesman for the Irish Lesbian and Gay Organization (ILGO). "We're going to keep fighting." 
Members planned a symbolic march past the reviewing stands one hour before the 231st annual parade begins Tuesday. 
"I think the entire lesbian and gay community is going to be coming out with us," O'Dwyer said. 
The event, the world's largest parade to honor Ireland's pa­tron saint, is sponsored by the Ancient Order of Hibernians. The Hibernians, a Catholic fra­ternal group, had threatened to call it off rather than let the homosexual organization march as a separate unit. 
The Hibernians said letting gays march under their own banner would be an affront to the Catholic Church's stance against homosexuality. 
The gay organization main­tains the parade is a public fo­rum and their free speech rights are being violated. 
Police planned to have 300 to 400 more officers on duty today than last year -more than 3,000 in all, said Chief of De­partment David Scott. 
"If in fact they want to demonstrate, we will attempt to accommodate them," he said of the gay group. "We have con­tingency plans depending on what transpires." 
Police expect 2 million people to watch today's parade, but organizers said they were afraid rumors of disruptions by the gay group or more radical ones might keep some specta­tors away. 
"ILGO had their day in court," said Kevin Marrinan, an attorney for the Hibernians. "We would hope that they'd abide by the judges' decisions and not try to ruin the parade." 
Homosexuals allowed to march Sunday in Boston's pa­rade under court order were given police escorts but were showered with cans and insults. 
The Observer page 5 

: You're invited to Britton's : • Balloons, Cards, Gifts & Antiques • 
.. Edison Plaza, 1627 Edison A 
• (Adjacent to Jamison Inn) A 
• 
Clip this coupon and bring it in for a 20% discount on your A 

• 
purchase ofanything in the store that's green and white. A 

• 
Good through March, 1992. A 


• Featuring a large variety of St. Patrick's Day green and white A A gifts including: cards, umbre.llas, stuffed animals, balloons, etc. A 
• Convenient Easy Shopping A 
A Britton Knowles, Owner (219) 271-2001 A 
........................... 
The Observer 
is now accepting application for the following position: 
Day Editor 
Must be available for any of the following afternoons: 
Monday through Thursday 
To apply, contact Colleen Knight at 239-7471. 
St. PATRICK'S DAY IS TOO MUCH FUN TO FIT INTO ONE DAY! 
THE PARTY CONTINUES ON WEDNESDAY MARCH 18th 
{7W4-~I) 

~&l11&®~@:, GREAT SPECIALS AND LOTS OF FUN! 
I.D. REQUIRED OPEN 9 · 2 

Gome to Shoney:'s fQF pur Bite-Size Shrimp Dinner -·:f ~· 
·hearty-helping of shrimp fried in 100% vegetable oil, served with cocktail sauce, dinner bread, your choice of baked potato, rice or fries, and Shoney's All-You-Care-To-Eat Soup, Salad and Fruit Bar. It's a big meal at a small price1 
SHONEYS 
Remember Shoney's Seafood Bar 
Friday and Saturday starting at 5:00 p.m. 
Available at participating restaurants 
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 
The Observer 
page 6 Tuesday, March 17, 1992 
Investigator claims to have solved Amelia Earhart mystery 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Bits of metal, a medicine bottle cap and parts of a woman's shoe prove that Amelia Earhart landed on a remote Pacific is­land and later died there, prob­ably from thirst, an investigator claimed Monday. 
"We have recovered artifacts that conclusively prove this case." said Richard Gillespie, executive director of The Inter­national Group for Historic Aircraft Recovery (TIGHAR). "The facts are there. The case is solved." 
Earhart and her navigator, Fred Noonan, disappeared in the South Pacific on July 2, 
1937, while on a flight from New Guinea to Howland Island. They were on the final portion of an attempt to fly around the world near the equator. 
Neither the fliers nor their Lockheed Electra were found in an air and sea search mounted by the U.S. Navy. Later, reports. surfaced that Earhart had been captured by the Japanese and died a prisoner. This has never been proven, however, and the fate of Earhart has been the subject of numerous books. 
At a news conference Monday, Gillespie said he solved the 55­year-old mystery. 
He said his research shows 
that after Earhart and Noonan failed to find Howland Island, they came upon a small atoll, then called Gardner Island and now called Nikumaroro, and landed there on a dry tidal flat during low tide. 
Radio distress signals were heard from the vicinity of the island for three days, but then stopped, Gillespie said. 
He also said that a massive storm north of Nikumaroro generated waves that washed the Electra from the tidal flat and dropped the airplane over the edge of a coral reef into 2,000 feet of water. 
This is why, he said, that when Navy planes flew over the island a few days later there was no sign of the Electra. 
Nikumaroro, then uninhib­ited, had no fresh water supply. Gillespie said he believes Earhart and Noonan depended on rainwater to survive but the local rainfall was only about an 1 112 inches a year. The pair probably died from thirst, he said. 
Gillespie said his organization visited Nikumaroro last October and discovered several artifacts they had not found in a 1989 visit to the island. 
He said expert analysis of a piece of aircraft aluminum, a length of copper wire, parts of a woman's size 9 shoe, and a bottle cap from a medicine bottle uncovered nothing that would disprove his contention that Earhart and Noonan died on Nikumaroro. 
"We're very confident that the Amelia Earhart case is solved," said Gillespie. The artifacts, he said, "form circumstantial evidence in such an overwhelming way as to make them conclusive." 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
lations concerning unautho­rized posters. As penalty, Callahan was fined 40 percent of his campaign budget of $45, or $18. 
The committee also deter­mined that an authorized member of Callahan's cam­paign committee had hung a poster defaming Nicgorski's character. Callahan said that he had asked this committee 
member to make two posters asking members of Keenan to vote in the election, which he had approved, but he was not aware of the poster with the derogatory remarks. 
Callahan said there was no way he could regulate the ac­tions taken without his knowl­edge. "It's not like I could hold his hand," he said. 
The Bylaws, however, state that a candidate is responsible for the actions of his commit­tee, and the ethics committee determined that Callahan was guilty of an infraction of this rule. 
The committee also found that Callahan had repeated suspicions of Nicgorski's actions to two non-campaign members of Breen Phillips Hall. Callahan said that he had spoken to these friends in private concerning his suspicions, but he did not think this conduct was "spreading rumors." 
"It was not spreading rumors -it was my friends,"he said. 
The ethics committee deter­mined that Callahan had "acted irresponsibly and unethically by repeating these rumors to vot­ers." 
"A person running for any position should not be repeat­ing any kind of rumor, even to friends, because they are voting residents," according to Gloria Wells, committee chair. 
For speaking to his friends, Callahan was charged only with irresponsible behavior, not with infraction of the Bylaws. "It's not wrong in the first place, and it's not even in violation of the Bylaws," said Callahan. 
The committee asked Calla­han to forfeit his candidacy be­cause of unethical behavior in violation of the Bylaw concern­ing the behavior of his cam­paigning committee members. Wells said that this punishment "comes straight from the By­laws." 
Callahan said that he will ap­peal the decision of the com­mittee in a hearing of the Stu­dent Senate. If the present rul­ing stands, the election will be reopened to the original candi­dates, who may run for the position again. 
Nicgorski could not be reached for comment. 
Campus Ministry... 
...Considerations 
What's the Future of This Relationship? 
They were both seniors. They had dated for almost two years. Graduation was looming in their fututre. They were both interviewing for jobs. They felt that this relationship was special; tht~y were serious 
about each other. But they just weren't sure what thet next step was. Should they look for jobs in the same city or should they test the relationship with some distance? Should they get engaged now or should they work for a year or two first and establish some career goals? 
They came into the Campus Ministry Office hoping for some information. Perhaps we had a compatibility test they might take to see if they were truly meant for each other. Did we have any articles they might read? Did we have any advice on what they should do? 
This was a new twist. Though we had offered programs for engaged couples for many years, we had not thought about lthis category of couple; what should we call them? "Serious but not J(et committed?" "Pre-engaged?" We ~ere greatly impressed that a· couple would so seriously question their future as to come to our office tor advice. Yet a program for the engaged would not be appropriate for this couple. They were still exploring their relationship-the decision was not yet made; and the decision might eventually be to ll.Q1 continue the relationship. What could we do for couples like these? 
After much discussion with rectors, RA's, counseling center personnel and some couples in seriuos re.~onships, we focused .on some of the issues and questions facing couples in signif.ic.ant relationships: 
-~­
-how can we determine if we're really ready for marrjw.Je? -should we try to find jobs, or pick graduate schools, ttrat are in the 
same city? -how will a long-distance relationship affect us'? -how can one express true feelings without pressuring for 
commitment? -how will the demands of career/graduate school affect our 
relationship? -how might differences in our families of origin affect OIUr relationship? -how can we communicate better? 
After identifying the issues, we put together a program and called it "Whars the Future of this Relationship?" It includes some presentations on the stages of relationships and decision-making. Whille we were able to avoid •compatibility tests,• we did include a marria~1e expectations quiz. There is time for answering questions and a lot of time for discussing answers with the partner. There is a discussic1n period for questions. There is a folder of articles for additional information and reflection. 
What most couples seemed to enjoy about the program was the time and the opportunity to discuss the relationship, especially areas or topics they hadn't considered before. 
If you are in a significant relationship and are asking the kinds of questions listed above, perhaps you'd like to attend the program this semester. 
Chris Etzel 
"What's the Future of this Relationship?" will take place March 29, from 12:30-5:00pm. Pre-registration is required. Applications are available from both Campus Ministry Offices (Library Concourse and Badin Hall) and must be returned by March 25. There is no cost for the program, which is limited to 25 couples only. If you have any questions, contact Chris Etzel at 239-5242. 
A memorial Mass will be celebrated for the repose of the soul of Colleen Hipp, on Friday, March 20, at 5:00pm, in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
~I 
Your prayers are requested for the repose of the soul 
of Gracie Morin, the sister of Rene Sanchez of Flanner Hall, who was killed in an automobile accident on Sunday, March 15th. 
Of particular value this week will be the presentation entitled "God's Love Experienced in Community," by Fr. Henri Nouwen and companions of L'Arche and Emmaus Communities, communities with the mentally handicapped. This event will take place in the Library Auditorium on Thursday, March 19, at 7;30 pm. Admission is free, and all are welcome. 
Tuesday, March 17, 1992 The Observer page 7 
Cholera hits north Mexico 
MONTERRE~ Me~co (AP)-­Authorities on Monday re­ported cholera cases outside this industrial city near the U.S. border and were scrambling to contain the illness that has al­ready killed thousands in Latin America. 
The northern march of the cholera epidemic is being closely watched by medical offi­cials in the United States, which has so far been spared widespread cholera outbreaks. But at one person in Southern California has died of the dis­ease. 
Officials in Monterey reported at least 12 cholera victims, in­cluding one woman who health authorities said died of pneu­monia. Government health of­ficials have been reluctant to list cholera as a cause of death or even recognize it as an ill­ness. 
"It is the first time we have detected cholera in northern Mexico near the border," said Jesus Catano, a spokesman for the Health Department in Mex­ico City. 
The disease, spread through food and water contaminated by fecal matter, causes severe diarrhea that can lead to dehy­dration and death. It is easily treated if caught early. 
Officials reported the cases of cholera in suburbs of Monterey, about 150 miles southwest of Laredo, Texas. 
Jose Cavazos Lopez, under­secretary of health for Nuevo Leon, said the victims con-. tracted cholera after eating food from southern Mexico, where most of the country's cases have been detected. 

Bad organization surrounds earthquake relief efforts 
ERZINCAN, Turkey (AP)-­Hundreds of frightened men left without jobs and homes by a devastating earthquake be­sieged the provincial governor's office Monday, demanding help for their families. 
"We have no food and our children are hungry," cried Yilniaz Karayazi, who said he lost his home and the tea house that provided his living. "I am left without hope." 
There are growing complaints that government bungling has hindered relief efforts since the quake hit eastern Turkey on Friday. Officials estimate at least 800 people were killed and 180,000 are homeless. The quake, the most deadly to hit the area since 1983, measured 
6.8 on the Richter scale and was followed by strong aftershocks. 
There were reports of looting and the theft of aid shipments. Soldiers patrolled some main streets and store owners guarded their shops. 
Complaints about the chaotic relief effort also came from doctors who .were furious a 200-bed field hospital promised by the Turkish Red Crescent didn't arrive until Monday and wouldn't be ready before Tues­day. More than 100 surgeons sent by the government have been unable to perform opera­tions without the field hospital. 
Mustafa Kul, the city's deputy in parliament, tried to calm the fears of the crowd outside the governor's office. 
Kul said steps had been taken to improve organization and ensure that aid is fairly dis­tributed in this city of 150,000 people, where an estimated 2,000 houses and apartment buildings were wrecked. But he also conceded that about 1,000 of the 8,675 tents sent to Erz­incan had been stolen. 
The Istanbul newspaper Mil­liyet reported that relief sup­plies were being sold on the black market, with tents going for $330 and blankets $15. 
Kul said 376 bodies had been recovered and a still unknown number of others had been dug out by their own relatives. The government and relief workers estimate 800 people died. 
"The death toll will rise. But I'm sure it won't be more than a thousand," said Kul, who added there were no figures for the missing. 
Many deaths were blamed on poor construction and struc­tures built above a limit of three stories set after a 1939 earthquake that killed 32,000 people in the city, about 225 miles west of Ankara. 
Swiss rescue teams, which brought in specially trained dogs, said they called off their search for survivors late Mon­day after finding four people alive in the debris. They said they found 36 bodies. 
But other rescue teams were heartened by the rescue of two people early Monday and clung to faint hopes. They began dig­ging into toppled apartment buildings. 
"If we thought there was no more hope we would not work so hard," said Kostas Holevas, a member of the 50-person Greek team. 

page 8 
Israeli loan guarantees on the verge of collapse~ 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Israel's 
efforts to secure $10 billion in 
loan guarantees appeared 
doomed Monday after the 
administration over the 
weekend rejected the latest 
congressional proposal. 
Israel's Defense Minister 
Moshe Arens, currently on a 
visit to the United States, in­
sisted his country would do 
without the guarantees rather 
than abandon Jewish settle­
ments in the West Bank and 
Gaza Strip. 
The Bush administration has 
maintained a hard line against 
the settlements, contending 
they are an obstacle to peace, 
and has linked the loan guaran­
tees to an Israeli promise to 
suspend construction in dis­
puted territories. 
A round of intensive weekend 
negotiations involving President 
Bush, Secretary of State James 
Baker and senior members of 
Congress failed to find any basis 
for a compromise on the issue, 
congressional sources said. 
One final effort has been scheduled for Tuesday, when Sen. Patrick Leahy, chairman of the Appropriations foreign aid subcommittee, is scheduled to meet with Bush at the White House. 
The administration over the weekend rejected the latest ver­sion of a proposal by Leahy, D­Vt., and Sen. Robert Kasten, R­Wis., that would subject the loan guarantees to a series of strict conditions. 
The proposal would provide up to $2 billion a year in guar­antees over five years. But the first year's installment would be reduced by an amount equal to any money Israel spends to complete settlement construc­tion that already had begun as of Jan. 1, 1992. 
For future years, the presi­dent would be given authority to disapprove any further loan guarantees if he determined that Israel had undertaken fur­ther settlem,.ent construction after the Jan. 1 date. 
Arens, speaking before 3,100 delegates to a United Jewish Appeal Leadership Conference, 
said the settlements the Bush 
administration wants to halt 
serve to protect Israel's popu­
lation centers "and this, my 
friends, we cannot do." 
Israel would do without the 
loan guarantees rather than 
"renounce the right of Jews to 
live in Judea and Samaria," 
Arens said, referring to. the 
biblical names for the West 
Bank. 
Israel would "not beg or 
crawl for help," he said. 
"We are a small people but we are a proud people," he told the cheering UJA audience. "...We shall have to do it our­selves. I know we can do it and I know we will do it," he said of financing the absorption of the 400,000 refugees from the former Soviet Union and tens of thousands of others expected to follow them to Israel. 
He said Israel would go its own way "without rancor." 
But an Israeli opposition leader said the loss of the guarantees would not play well with voters in Israel's June 23 elections. Speaking in Washing­ton, Labor Party parliamentary leader Haim Ramon said the ruling Likud bloc "gambled with the loans," foresaking the well being of the immigrants. 
The Bush administration's opposition to the settlements dates back to the 1967 Arab­Israeli war. The United States defines occupied territories as the West Bank, Gaza strip, Golan Heights and East Jerusalem. 
The settlements issue is inter­twined with a halting Middle East peace process sponsored by the United States, which has so far made little progress in resolving issues of Israel's sta­tus and the status of Palestini­ans, the predominant popUila­tion in the territories. 
On another touchy subjfict, Arens dismissed reports tlh.at Israel had provided missile technology to China obtained initially from the United States. 
"Let me tell you,there is not a grain of truth to those allega­tions," he said. Arens called the charges "malicious." 


The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
The invertebrate world 
Tricia Penny, junior and Marci Macedonia, sophomore watch as Thomas Platt, associate professor of bi­ology at Saint Mary's disects an earthworm in his Invertebrate Biology class. 
~***************************1 
* * 
~ The Old World Meets the New 1492-1992 ~ 
* ~tAPS AND THE COLUMBIAN ENCOUNTER * * * 
~ A Notre Dame Sesquicentennial Exhibit :
* March 3-April 4, O'Shaughnessy Galleries East * * in the Suite Museum * 
** with an opening lecture ** 
* ()\) CCcmillJlll]])l})lJll~ ~oo~ IP~~~~lf~ilil&~ * ~ AJ]])®lfU~~ ffi~~n~~®W®lf®~ ()() ~ 
~ ]})1 IBJ®lfl]])~OOOO IBJ&ilil~rr ~ 
* Professor of Romance Languages, * * Queens College and CUNY * 
* at 4:30 p.m. on Wednesday, March 18 * 
* in the Auditorium of the * 
* Hesburgh Center for International Studies * 
Noon talk by Diana Matthias of the Snite Museum* at 12:10 p.m. on Tuesday, March 31st, in the exhibit gallery * 
* Sponsored by the: 
* 
Department of R.oma.nce .La.n9u.GCJes a.ncl Lf..tera.tu.res *
* Suite Museum *
* * 
THURSDAY, A IL 16 7:30ph11 Joyce A.C.C. 
Tickets available at all Tlcketmaster outlets Including 
L.S.Ayres and the University of Notre Dame Tl!jQI:_ 
I!;;;;;;;;;;;CH;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;A=RGi..E=B=Y=PH=O;;;;;;;N.;;_E:;_;;2.;.;19..;;-2;;;;;;72;..;;-7~97.;;_9;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;=Mii=-'IIP~ f< ****************************~ 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, March 17, 1992 page 9 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
Within the past two weeks I have read in the Observer an editorial column citing soul­searching apologies of certain members of the American hier­archy for sins of omission if not worse in regard to minorities, several news articles portraying the censure of the Roman Catholic Church by a defecting priest written in certainly less than critical light, and finally an editorial comment by Fr. McDermott of campus ministry again criticizing the Church in the name of his "beautiful young women." (I have to put it that way because such sad and alienated souls may exist only in his weltanschauung.) 
All three of these have two things in common. The first is an undisguised criticism of the Church, where "the Church," as usual, is ambiguously identified. The Church is not the hierarchy, the Pope, some unspecified officials in the Vatican or some imaginary regressives who control policy and doctrine. 
The Church includes all of the faithful Catholics who constitute the greater number of that society which Christ founded on earth, people like Sr. Teresa, and our esc missionaries in Bangladesh. those who gather nightly at the Grotto, as well as the Pope, and even yours truly. 
If the hierarchical breast­beating is self-referring, it is no less such a criticism and suffers from the same ambiguity so that one cannot but suspect that there is at least unconscious buck-passing going on. The second is the obvious attempt to put the loyal Catholic on a guilt trip -unless she or he happens to agree with the critics. 
May I comment on this latter immediately; I for one am sick 
DOONESBURY 
and tired Of this cheap ploy which is used by almost anyone in our society who feels aggrieved over real or imaginary ills none of which I caused, contributed to, o-r approved of. I have a suspicion that many others reading this will agree that this form of attempted manipulation has an effect the opposite to that intended by those who indulge in it. 
It is particularly odious when carried on in the context of an effort to push certain ideologies in the religious domain where the ills are in fact largely invented by the pushers. Anyone who wants something can claim that they are oppressed when they don't get it. 
I resent Fr. McDermott's unwarranted insinuations that because I am a "white, American, Roman Catholic, male, cleric" I am an oppressor. I have kicked a few butts in my life (when attacked) but I have never oppressed anyone. In any society one will find evils but to imply that "the Church" is at fault, no distinctions made, is itself oppressive. 
My main complaint concerns the Stallings and the McDermott criticisms of the Church. Both take a position outside of the Church while protesting that they, above all, are in and of the Church -the real Church of course -which means the one in which they want to be the authorities, the ones who really know what is right. That their wisdom comes from the Enlightenment rather than the Gospel is apparently irrelevant. 
Stallings is a self-styled "renegade priest" who was un­faithful to his solemn promise of loyalty to the Church. In effect he excommunicated himself; he was not told to leave by his bishop. He is a disgrace to his race and especially to loyal Mrican-American Catholics. 
Having made this move he did exactly what one would expect: he made himself an authority and makes his own rules. God help anyone that would dis­agree with him in his church, whatever he pretends it to be. It's his show even if he borrows the props. 
Fr. McDermott's "beautiful women" likewise, though in a less obvious way, place them­selves in a position which guar­antees their isolation and feeds their feelings of being op­pressed and at odds with the Church which persecutes them. What this means is that they have made up their minds what is right and true and just and cannot, obviously cannot, be 
wrong. _ It is all so clear to them that they can but see themselves as 
sinned against. Anyone who disagrees must be vicious or at best amazingly stupid. Fr. McDermott's experience touched him deeply it seems and his own brand of maturity of faith and wisdom allows him to feel the guilt himself-~~: 
The fact that these "beautiful women" e~& t6 attend an all­women's c6'ilege in which they make an all-women's retreat and in which one finds recently a more or less positively discourteous and insulting attitude towards priests because they are males, seems 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
not to enter the consideration at all. 
What the enlightened ones want is ordained women so that they can have their Church as they want it, without males. What was that about the eye saying to the hand "I do not need you"? (I Cor. 12: 21) 
Both of these criticisms of the Church, widely different and yet strangely the same, seem, furthermore, to, share an un­spoken premise. This is that the purpose of the Church is the fulfillment of human beings on earth. 
Indeed, one gets the distinct impression that religion's job is to right all wrongs, insure social justice, promote racial cultures and reclaim the Paradise that Dante spoke of as lost. God? Oh, yes, forgot about Him, didn't we. Well, He serves as a convenient symbol, obviously not otherwise effective because He doesn't bash the Pope or those wicked authorities who cause all the oppression in His Church. 
The idea that the Church is the extension of Christ on earth, the branches of which He is the tree, that it was established to bring eternal salvation to hu­mans who need it, not to in­dulge their tendency toward self-worship, has been set aside in this modern, enlightened, world. 
Having eaten of another tree, of the knowledge of good and evil, some humans find it difficult to forget the taste of the fruit, as bitter as history has shown it to be. 
C. F. Weiher Philosophy Dept. 
Feb.26,1992 
MIK&., I'U COO&. MY PPJ[)U HEt, Hte! RIGHT TV TH£3 [)![) YOU SAY MY 
POINT. I'M R.UN­PR/I?e? 
__,__,!
NING A CDN­5Ut.TANCY NOP.I... 
'It it was so, it might be; and if it were so, it would be; but if it isn't, it ain't. That's logic.' 
Tweedledee 
Remove your lampshade, submit: 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q, ND. IN 46556 
~~------~--------~----------------------·-----------------------------------­
Viewpoint
page 10 Tuesday, March 17, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Awareness, diversity a must in ND/SMC community
Non-smoking consictered 
The Saint Mary's and Notre Dame eommunity is often criti­Jennifer Habrych cized for being unaware. We Guest Columnist 
dangerous to national security 
often times fail to recognize the diversity that exists outside of Open any history text book,
Dear Editor: started jogging and we lost. I 1992) and plan to leave for our homogeneous community. and you will find the same fa­After reading the new policy imagine that everyone will re­Medjugorie in the immediate This topic of diversity is one we miliar names-Washingtonon smoking I was ill for a week. mind me of the latest war in the future. What's good enough for as a community are struggling Carver, Nat Turner, Rosa Parks,I stepped up my smoking and Mideast. We lost that one too the Blessed Virgin is good to address and are often criti­Martin Luther King,Jr., andam well on the way to recovery. because the nut we were after enough for me. 
cized for not addressing . Malcolm X-but there are many
I keep remembering that the is still alive, well and smoking. Robert J. Waddick It was only after spending a others who have played such anlast war we won was won by I had the pleasure of reading Assistant Dean Emeritus weekend at Michigan State essential role in not only Black
people who smoked. They quit Fr. Griffin's "Letter To A Lonely Pre-Law Advising University that I discovered an History, but in Ameriean
smoking and we tied. They God" (The Observer, March 6, March 12, 1992 opportunity we as a community History whom we still fail to were missing. MSU was holding acknowledge. If it takes a many events and lectures that separate month to aeknowledge were addressing and recogniz­the achievements of an ing the vast achievements and important group of Americans, problematic encounters that then so be it. have faced and continue to face Maybe if we become aware of the African-American pop­these influential people, we will ulation as a celebration of no longer need a separate Black History Month. It was at month, but this is a very ideal this time that it occurred to me, situation that will take a long that I had not even realized it time to achieve. Until this ideal was Black History Month. exists, we still need to address 
There is something even the issue as a separate entity. deeper that troubles me about March is Women's History our community's lack of knowl­Month, is this something we as edge of the event: it is that a community will ignore also? without addressing Black Attending an all women's col­History Month, or avoiding lege, I hope this fear will not learning about other cultures, become a reality, but unfortu­we only tend to differentiate nately, if we ignore the issue of ourselves from these black culture-an issue both "minorities," rather than Saint Mary's and Notre Dame identifying the differences and have been criticized for not realizing our similarities as dealing with well-then what human persons. would make one believe that 
Many may argue that no need the issues concerning women exists for a separate month to will be any more properly ad­acknowledge a culture. They dressed? feel that persons of color al­Cultural issues, women's is­ready have an equal part in his­sues, and the like are subjects tory, and are causing them­we need to address all year selves more harm than good by round, but if we do not address segregating themselves out in a them in specific months set 
Dear Editor: eration of both smokers and tie doubt that the separate month to acknowledge aside to explore them, how ef­
As a member of a minority non-smokers, i.e. we behave the Hitlerwannabees forcing this their history. fectively are we doing this year whose oppression is politically way you want us to, or else. issue will get their way on that. Many will say that if we have round? True "equality" can correct, I am, unfortunately, not And there are the usual excuses I wonder is the university men­
a Black History Month, why not only be accomplished if we as too surprised when my freedom like recent Surgeon General re­tioning the fact that smoking a White Man's History Month? an entire community explore all is taken away. Nevertheless, I ports indicating that exposure will be totally banned in 2 years 
But, a need for a separate the issues and come to grips
was shocked to read the new to second-hand smoke MAY be in the letters to prospective 
month to acknowledge the with them. 
smoking policy in The Observer a serious health hazard to non­students and in faculty hiring? 
achievements of African­
(March 3, 1992). smokers. One thing is certain, though, 
Americans separately Jennifer Habrych is a student
Now, I suppose that because I have never seen these that when a small number of of the ridiculous restrictions to reports but have seen others radicals within a majority de­be placed on smoking areas, that say otherwise. And, of cides it doesn't like something a there will be nowhere on course, there is the usual talk minority does, it can get it campus, aside from private about 'curing' smokers. I banned with little problem. rooms for smokers to smoke. I smoke of my own free will, To the silent majority out expect those people responsible aware that smoking affects my there, who don't smoke, but for this policy to look with glee health, to the extent that smok­don't care if people do, upon smokers suffering from ers die, on average, six months remember you will be a lack of a cigarette, or out in the before nonsmokers. member of such a minority freezing weather, knowing that That is the same amount of yourself someday. When they had the power to mess time people spend opening junk freedom stops being defended, with other people's lives. I mail over the course of a intolerant Hitlerwannabees leave you alone. Why do y'all lifetime. Let me make decisions always win out. So much for want to mess with me? about how I live my own life. diversity. 
The document is full of the I'm not living your life, so stay usual condescending language. out of mine. Ulick Stafford The success of this policy de­Most disturbing, of course, is Graduate Student pends on thoughtfulness, con­the plan in 2 years to com­Chemical Engineering sideration, goodwill, and coop-pletely ban smoking. I have lit-March 4, 1992 
'Experts' wrong in assessme~nt of Kuwait 
Dear Editor: P.O.W.'s that have not yet been Niarchus used Failaka as a 
It is disturbing, as one who returned? Yes, the families of trading post for the Greek knows the suffering of his peo­these P.O.W.'s are "restocking" Empire. Failaka was flattened ple, to see their suffering dis­for they must survive and they by Saddam's forces. How are paraged by so-called "experts" are not poor, but they cannot we to restock our history? and "scholars." Today, one even begin to rebuild their lives And let us not forget that one­year after the liberation of until their families are once tenth of Kuwait's oil reserves Kuwait from the terrorism of again whole. were burned away uselessly Saddam, there are claims that And let us not disparage the during the oil fires. How are "there is really no rebuilding to mourning of the families of the we to restock our nation's be done in Kuwait, just some thousands who died defending wealth? restocking." It is the purpose of this beloved soil that is Kuwait, So, to you so-called "experts," this brief note to make the case for this grief is real and their I say: choose your words that these "experts" may well rebuilding has only just begun. earefully when describing the have visited Kuwait but they Of course the damage is the condition of a people that have not seen it. physical as well as emotional, has suffered, for scholarship 
Keeping in mind that our tiny but at times it is irreparable and objectivity do not imply nation consists of only one just the same. There is a callousness. million Kuwaitis, how could one Kuwaiti Island named Failaka Talal Gharabally say that there is no rebuilding that housed archaeological ru­Graduate Student to be done when still today ins dating back to 400 B.C. It is Dept. of Economics there are two thousand Kuwaiti believed that the Fleet of March 4, 1992 


~----~-­
Accent 
Tuesday, March 17, 1992 page 11 
The Irish Queen 
ND law student Mary O'Neil was chosen to be Chicago's ~aueen of the Parade' 

By JENNIFER GUERIN 
Accent Writer 
It makes perfect sense. 

Notre Dame and the Irish tradition go hand in hand. Where else but here should one come to find the perfect Irish woman for Chicago's annual St. Patrick's Day Parade? 
This week while Domers everywhere are toasting their alma mater with green beer and weepy sentimentality for the Fighting Irish, a 23 year old ND graduate and student at the Notre Dame Law School will busy herself with her duties as the new "Queen of the Parade" in Chicago. 
Mary O'Neil, chosen from over 500 contestants for the honored position of Queen, officially commenced her year-long reign last weekend. Her duties for 1992 involve attending various Irish festivals throughout the year, but the highlight of the queen's year is the parade itself. 
Saturday, March 14, was the day of the city's 37th Annual St. Patrick's Day Parade, "The Progressive Irish." Miss O'Neil followed Richard M. Daley, Mayor of Chicago, and a handful of other prominent urban leaders at the front of the parade. She rode in an authentic Irish side-car: and was surrounded by the five members of the royal court. 
The second youngest in a family of six children, O'Neil said she first became interested in competing for Queen when she "watched the parade as a little girl." She was on the court for the past three years, but this year, impressed the judges enough to earn the highest title. 
According to O'Neil, contestants were judged on "Irish looks" and family heritage, as well as personal presentation in front of the judges. "You have to be a good representative of the Chicago Irish community," she commented. The selection process narrowed the number of competitors from 500 to 180 to 48, and fmally, to five. 
&. After extensive conversations with the judging panel, which consisted of politicians and TV personalities from the Chicago area, the queen and her court were selected on February 28. The annual Queen Contest took place in the International Ballroom of the Chicago Hilton and Towers. 
In addition to the excitement and publicity of St. Patrick's Day events, rewards for the Queen of the Parade are plentiful. O'Neil will receive monetary awards and gifts, including jewelry and Waterford crystal pieces, from local organizations. 
She will also be awarded two round trip tickets from Southwest airlines, and two round trip tickets to Ireland from Air Lingus. O'Neil plans to give these tickets to her parents, Don and Colette O'Neil, who live in Oakbrook, Illinois. 
When asked if her duties as Queen were affecting her ability to keep up with the regular demands placed on a second-year law student, O'Neil noted that she was very lucky most of the events occurred over spring break. 
Many of her classes are large, however, so her professors did not really notice her absence during the competition. Not having any tests until the week of final exams also worked in her favor, allowing her time for "royal" duties. 
O'Neil was not the only Domer involved in the St. Patrick's Day festivities. Also participating was John Lattner, a former Notre Dame Football All-American and Heisman Trophy winner. He carried the banner of St. Patrick wearing the kilts of the Shannon Rovers. 
Saturday's activities also included performances by various Irish and high school bands, military representatives, labor unions, Irish groups, cheerleaders and dancing schools. Floats celebrated the parade theme, "The Progressive Irish," by characterizing events in the lives of fa­mous Irish citizens from Ireland, the United States, and the Chicago area. 
Wailers' One Love fails to meet expectations 

-
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
One Love 
Music Critic 
Bob Marley and the Wailers 
The music of Bob Marley and the 
* * 
Waiters evokes thoughts of palm trees 
and beaches; of cool ocean breezes and 
(out of five) 
hot, sunny days. So, with spring on a 
temporary leave of absence from the songs on One Love lacked the northern Indiana, I trekked to a record recording technology of British and store this weekend to buy myself some American releases of the same period. memories of warmth and sunlight. The benefits of the compact disc are 
When I got to the reggae section of the virtually wasted on the collection. shop, one item immediately caught my "One Love," an early version of the eye. The long-awaited One Love, a song which appears on Legend, the chronological survey of the Waiters' multi-platinum Bob Marley and the work during the mid-sixties, had Waiters collection, is faster than the arrived. I quickly shelled out 30 bucks later release. This trend continues and rushed home to put the two discs throughout One Love, as Marley, Peter into my CD player. Mackintosh (later Peter Tosh) and 
Unfortunately, One Love does not live Bunny Livingstone Oater Bunny Waiter) up to expectations. The progression perform in pre-Rasta, pre-reggae form. from the Wailers' debut single, "Simmer The first disc of the album leads off Down," from 1963, to "Freedom Time," with "This Train," the most traditional 
An early publicity photograph of (left to right) Bob Marley, Peter Tosh, Beverly Kelso, and 
one of the group's first anthems of gospel song the Waiters ever recorded. 
Bunny Waily, is now featured in One Love, the chronological survey of the Wailers' work. 
personal liberty is undoubtedly The song, recorded in 1966, is interesting for Marley die-hards, but the intriguing in that it fully embraces classic the Caribbean twist it always "Rude Boy" was included in last year's group doesn't find its distinctive style Christianity, unlike the later Waiters needed, in One Love's strangest track. Talkin' Blues collection as "Walk the until the middle of disc two. work with which most people are "And I Love Her," originally done by Proud Land," and is a hidden Marley 
After listening to the 40 tracks, lasting familiar. the Beatles, leads off disc two, giving classic. But the version here is a terrible just under two hours, I realized that I The Waiters tackle several covers, the listener a terrible first impression of recording, and most fans would do should have waited until another with little artistic su-ccess. Dion's what turns out to be the better of the better to stick to Talkin' Blues. disgruntled Marley fan had returned the "Teenager in Love" is particularly two discs. In fact, almost everyone should stay set to the used rack. embarrassing, a gem which Marley, This half of the collection gets back on away from One Love. Though the album 
Recorded at Studio One, the Kingston, Tosh and Wailer would probably prefer the right foot with "Rude Boy" and "I'm is interesting to those religious followers Jamaica studio, which initially launched hidden. The band tries to modify "Like a Still Waiting," each of which is a of the great dreadlocked one, it is worth the sound into the international arena, Rolling Stone," giving the Bob Dylan prototype of later Marley song themes. only a giggle to the casual reggae fan. 
a a
a 
page 12 The Observer Tuesday, March 17, 1992 
Women's tennis drops three over break 
By RICH SZABO 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team went on Spring Break coming off a much­needed win over Northwestern that they hoped would spur them on to more success. 
Unfortunately, what they found was a continuing trend of playing tough against highly­regarded opponents, only to have the win slip through their grasp. 
The Irish dropped three of four matches over break to fall to 5-7 for the season. 
On the first Saturday of break, the Irish took on arch-rival Indiana, now ranked seventh, whom they have never de­feated. As if that wasn't incen­tive enough, the Lady Hoosiers were ranked first in the region. 
The Irish jumped out to a 4-2 lead after singles, with 12th­ranked Melissa Harris defeating Deborah Edelman 6-3, 6-1 at first singles to lead the way. 
Also posting wins for Notre Dame were Lisa Tholen at fourth singles, Terri Vitale at fifth, and Ann Bradshaw at the sixth slot. 
However, the Irish were un­able to pick up wins in any of the three doubles contests, dropping close contests in all of them, and allowing IU to escape with a 5-4 victory. Christy Faustmann and Tholen fell to Edelman and Deborah Reece, the number-four doubles team in the nation, 7-5, 6-4 at first singles, while IU's Rachel Epstein and Jody Yin defeated Eniko Bende and Laura Schwab at second singles, 4-6, 6-2, 6-3. Finally. Katie Clark and Kristy Doran lost to Danielle Paradine and Kristi Thomas 6-4, 6-4. 
"We had a Jot of chances against Indiana," said Irish coach Jay Louderback, "and they are a very good team. That shows that we can play with these teams." 
From there it was on to South Carolina for the Irish. Last Monday, Notre Dame re­bounded with a 9-0 whitewash­ing of Davidson, in which all six singles and three doubles matches were won in straight sets. This provided a boost for the Irish heading into last Thursday's match with 25th­ranked Clemson. 
This match was all Lady Tigers as only Harris posted a singles win, defeating Mimi Burgos 5-7, 6-1, 6-4. Clemson had the match won after sin­gles, up 5-l, but the Irish dou­bles teams were able to come away with wins at the first and second positions, to make the final score 6-3. 
"As a team, I don't think we came together to play to our full potential. We could have played better," said Vitale. 
The Irish now stood at 5-6 on the season heading into the fi­nal match over break, a contest against South Carolina on Sunday. This match was all Lady Gamecocks, though, as Carolina cruised to a 7-2 vic­tory, sending the Irish to their second-straight setback and dropping the to 5-7 for the year. 
Carolina's Nathalie Rodriguez, ranked 50th in the country, kicked things off by upsetting Harris 6-2, 6-0 at first singles. Schwab, Faustmann, Vitale, and Bradshaw also fell in singles, as Lisa Tholen posted the only Irish singles victory, a 7-6, 6-1 win over Natalie Acacio at fourth singles. 
Faustmann and Tholen cap­tured Notre Dame's other point with a win at first singles, their third straight win over break. The Irish tandem was up 6-4, 3­4 when the Carolina pair of Natalie and Pauline Rodriguez retired from the match. 
Overall, the Irish doubles teams played well over break, falling in extremely close matches. Another plus was the steady play of Lisa Tholen, who won three of four doubles matches with Christy Faustmann and was 3-1 in sin­gles play. 
The Irish have a week to re­group in preparation for their next set of dual matches the following weekend, when 20th­ranked Kansas, Wisconsin, which received votes in the cur­rent poll, and Boston College visit the Eck Tennis Pavillion. Notre Dame will be looking to snap a two-game skid and come away with some big wins over tough schools. 
Said Louderback, "We need this week off. Everyone is really tired after the break trip, but I think it was good for us. We're so close with everyone we play, but we've got to beat some of them if we're going to be a good team." 
"Hopefully, we can get it back together," said Vitale. "We know we can do better, and to come up short is really frustrating. We should bounce right back. Winning next weekend would be a big confidence booster." 
The Observer accepts classijieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFort~ne and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge Is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  BE ON T.V. many needed tor commericials. Now hiring all ages. For casting info.  ~RSALE  KATHARSIS  Pig Pen-Thanks for finally taking a shower  HABBA DABBA SNABBA  
Call (615) 779-7111 Ext. T-1678.  CHEAPI FBI/U.S. SEIZED  THIS BAND WILL ROCK STEPAN  Thursday  
Typing Service -Experienced typist  89 Mercedes ...................... $200  CENTER AT THE BATTLE OF  GET YOUR OFFICIAL  
-resumes, papers, etc. uses AT&T  SUMMER JOBS  86 VW ................................... $50  THE BANDS. WE PLAY LAST IN  She sings a song and I listen to  ST. PATRICK'S DAY T-SHIRT  
computer. Epson printer. Call 656­ ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  87 Mercedes ...................... $100  THE CONTEST AT 11:45 P.M..  what it says- AT LAFAYETTE SQUARE  
3158.  PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  65 Mustang ......................... $50  OUR SONGS WILL BE: THE  If you want a friend, feed any animal  AND STAY COOL  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  Choose from thousands starting  OCEAN BY LED ZEPPELIN, BEEN  There's so much space, I cut me a  
TYPING AVAILABLE  NEAR LAKE PLACID  $25.  CAUGHT STEALIN' FROM  piece with some fine wine,  You should be with us, feeling like  
287-4082.  CALL 1-800-786-8373  FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals  JANE'S ADDICTION, UNDER THE  It brought peace to my mind in the  we do ...  
Details 801-379-2929 Copyright  BRIDGE BY RED HOT CHILl  Summertime.  
Typing  SUMMER JOBS TO SAVE THE  #IN11KJC  PEPPERS AND DREAM ON BY  And it rolled I  0-h 0-h Cow-in, I wuv you  
Pickup & Delivery  ENVIRONMENT­ AEROSMITH. WITNESS THE  
277-7406  EARN $2500-3500  Pioneer recEJiver & tape deck for  PURGATION. GUITAR: ANDY  Matt from 54585 Irish Way is DUDE  We are Strong I  
National campaign positions to  sale x2322  ELLISON' VOCALS: JASON  WHO SMELLS GOOD.  
LOST/FOUND  promote comprehensive recycling, stop toxic pollution and sue the nation's worst polluters. Pos'ns in  ~CKETS  THOMAS'BASS: GENE SHEIKH' DRUMS: MARCUS VAUGHN' THE LAST SHALL BE FIRST.  Schwing!!  I, myself, cannot. We are not strong  
LOST: pr. of black ski mittens  Chicago, 29 states and D.C.  These things are hard to come by.  
on way to Loftus from Lewis. This great weather may not last and  Call Jamie toll tree: 1-800-75­EARTH  GRATEFUL DEAD TIX -3/23,24 AUBURN HILLS. I have 2 tix for  HURRY, HURRY Get your ST. P.A,TRICK'S Day  Well actually, all you have to do is this ...  DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO  
I need those mittens. Tow ropes are harsh on the bare hands. Call Jeni at x4209.  Ex NO staffer and spouse desire to rent furnished apartment from middle of June until your return.  each show .•John 2719165 I PER:SONAL  1-shirt while their hoi Cancun: Meat Market '92 (or top 10 reasons why the HAB  Hey Anna, PENIS!!  O'HARE? CALL UNITED LIMO. SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK FROM NO BUS SHELTER. 674-7000 OR 1-800-833-5555.  
LOST  References, non-smokers. JTW,  natives were laughing):  IT'S HERE!  
135 Lakeview Dr.,Mulberry, Fla.  t-fere it is, what  10. Didn't we play you?  WAKE IT SHAKE IT  To BAM-BAM:  
glasses in Ray-Ban-case on  33860.  margalkate/lushlkaranlmo/joy/julie/j  9. How much to the Solymar?  DO IT OAWGIE STYLE  Thanks lor a great Spring Break in  
2129 between the JACC and  (813) 425-4404.  b have been waiting for, THE  8. You are sooo good lookn'.  NY. I love you.  
Keenan. Gold framed. Tortoise  CANCUN QUOTES TO END ALL  7. I like your eyes .. .  U-R-the-1-4-me.  
ear-pieces.  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  QUOTES:  I like your mouth .. .  ATTENTION SENIORS: The  -S.T.  
Please call Dave x3328  -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month.  •"I'd like to take this time to remind  6. Are you a wrestler?  application deadline tor Holy Cross  P.S. Heed the words of the old man!  
Free transportation I Room & Board!  you that interferring with any of the  5. We are your handicap.  Associates is this Friday, March 20.  
FOUND:  Over 8,000 openings. No  flight eras is a federal offense, and  4. "A" for effort.  Get yours in while there's still time.  TEN REASONS WE LIKE BERT:  
Mechanical Drafting Pencil on the  experience necessary. Male or  the proper authorities will be notified  3. We want to get LOADED I  10. His New York accent (and  
sidewalk by Farely Hall.  Female. For employment program  •Who's that doll that sings in the  2. I am not a tool.  attitude)  
To indentify and claim,  call Student Employment Services  tub? Little singing mermaid  1. I'm totally for yawl  ADOPTION: PROFESSIONAL  9. The Great Tang Theory  
call Chris at X2115 by the Sunday  at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597.  •Drunker than hell  Happy Birthday Aim and All II  COUPLE, HAPPILY MARRIED,  8. His taste for "wodka"  
after break.  •I'll be you my life plus expected  We miss you, Rosie!  FINANCIALLY SECURE, STRONG  7. Chinchilla! Chinchilla! Chinchilla!  
- '""'FOUND'""  FOR RENT  earnings that they do it •Darryl was foul, the foulest of foul  WoW.  BASIC VALUES, EAGER TO ADOPT AND WELCOME A BABY  6. The trip to St. Louis. 5. The "Tonka Truck" (may it rest in  
pair of GLASSES  •They're whi'te trash whores through  Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award  INTO A LOVING CIRCLE OF  peace)  
found in bleachers at St. John's  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  and through  Winning Hotel, has rooms for  FAMILY AND FRIENDS AND  4. His wonderful fashion sense.  
basketball game  219-291-7153.  •Get a smalllife .. .then end it  Graduation weekend. Located at  PROVIDE MANY OF LIFE'S  3. His knowledge of the "suniverse"  
on Sat. 2-29-92  •Hi it's Lila. I need your help  Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart  ADVANTAGES. EXPENSES PAID.  2. He has his priorities straight!  
call x4416 to identify  SUMMER SCHOOL RENTAL ­ •God has ble•ssed you with beautiful  (12 miles from South Bend)  JUDITH AND JESSE 1-800-933­ 1. LIVING TO SEE HIS 21st  
3 SEPARATE BEDROOMS, USE  eyes and bountiful breast  Minimum stay 2 nights with $110  3499.  BIRTHDAY (we hope)  
OF FACILITIES,  •She's as loc•se as water, or in  deposit per room. Send letter with  Have a great one I  
'"LOST'''  KITCHEN, WASHING, $225/MO.  Marge's caso, bowls  deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd.,  All your roommates and friends  
glasses with  NICE NEIGHBORHOOD  •Come here seniorita, for one  Elkhart, IN 46514.  Thoughts, sayings, and quotes from  (and Chi-Chi, too).  
metalic lf'lme  & HOME.  Mexican minute  Ft. Meyers/Marco Island  
..  REWARD I  CLOSE TO CAMPUS. PAUL 232-2794.  •I want you Ill know I'm for YOU, ok? I'm for yllu on this one.  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate,  1. "We're SET with a capital S"  hey nil  
call Joe at 1208  •Crazy, nutty, hairy, nose-picking  summer and internship programs in  2. "...right near Spokane, in the  
Found mini 35mm camera Was found just before  FOR RENT "ONLY $125 PER PERSON .... 259-7801 OR 255-5852"  , naked Pirates •They're either lame, going to hurl, or lookin' for Iovin. •Marge: I'd give any1hing to be  Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696.  State of Washington 3."1ts so dark, I can't seed-" 4. "I don't get it" .... Well, Betsy, that's not our problem"  aBSBaYE YOUit Z,4.0R 5 BEDKOOM HOUSE FOR IZ-t3 NOW! SAFE AREA.  
CHRISTMAS break. call Joe 1208  3 Bedroom Walk to Campus $555 Month 232 3616  constipated/in South Bend •Oh my god, ar<t you on the Irish Guard? •Anyone: I've• got to go lo the  The Lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans! raft, you are missed.  5. "Hey Jude!" 6. "I like to touch myself .... PSYCHIATRIST!" 7. 73.6 mph "Well, son, that's about  ftiVATE PA..RKING LOT, VOLLEYBALL & 1l.&SJ[ETBALL COu:aT,  
bathroom  to change!"  SEIII·FUB.NISRED. CALL  
WANTED  For Rent 5Br. 2 bth house for next semester  Marge: I'll join you •Mont Blanc pens •I want a big ostentatious display of  000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center We're Open Everyday! I!  8. "Mr. Cunningham, this is the night manager .... could we POSSIBLY get you ANYTHING else"  !34-1886 TODAY  
newly remodeled, 1 mile  love and wealth that will tell the  9. "Don't go away mad, girl, just go  
A SUMMER JOB YOU'LL LOVE I  from campus. Right behind Lat.  world I'm adored by a very rich man  to the athletic dept.:  away"  
Coed Massachusetts camp, 3 hrs.  Squ. Security sys. Wash/dryer  •God, where's a silver shop when  your time is gcinna come  10. Girls, how about some donuts or  
Boston/NY City. Super kids, great food, friendly atmosphere. 100+ staff: tennis, lifeguard, WSI, arts/crafts. all land/water sports,  call 232-8256 HOUSES FOR RENT, SECURITY SYSTEMS, FURNISHED, 4-8  you need on•l? •They'll fit a l·ot better once the baby comes this summer •We're not wMhy!!!  -led zeppelin HAO, LULAC, and the Office of Minority Student Affairs cordially  onion rings? Georgie, Jill and Betsy-Thanks for a great break.  Jfenri 'J{guwen mtf L ';trclit ani'Emmaus  
fitness. gymnastics. piano/play tor shows, drama, judo, dance. archery,  BEDROOMS, KEGERATORS. 287­4989.  And THE QUOTE TO END ALL QUOTES, THE THEME THAT  invite you to attend Or. Samuel Balances' lecture, "The Many  LOVE-Mike, Steve, and Blair  Companions 'IIi.!it  
photography, computers. rocketry, guitar, radio, video, yearbook,  Needed-two female students to  RULED THE WEEK: •So, are you guys on vacation or  Faces of the Hispanic" on Mon. March 16, at 7:00 pm in the Library  'J{p trt 'Dami  
newspaper, wilderness. woodwork, AN. more!  share OAKHILL CONDO for 92-93 year, and/or summer rental.  what? (answ•3r: no, I'm on a research grant from Fordham ... )  Auditorium. A reception will follow and all are welcome.  Heading for EUROPE this summer? Jet there any1ime for $169 from the  'Ihurs, Mardi. 19  
....  6120-8122. Call/write CAMP EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd., Eastchester, NY 10707. 800/955-CAMP.  undergradllawlgrad.Amy or Stacy @ 277-9452 Rent one bdrm apartmt close to  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00,  It puts the lotion on its skin, or else it gets the hose again.  East Coast, $229 from the Midwest (when available) with AIRHITCHI (Reported in Let's Go I & NY Times.) For details:  7:30p.m. Library flbufitorium 1"ru  
campus, $250+ util, dep. 288-4919.  289-1993. 01fice near campus.  (Stupid.)  AIRHITCH(r) 212-864-2000.  


Tuesday, March 17, 1992 The Observer page 13 
(17 pts), and Howard Nathan man defense also kept the Irish (11 pts, 7 assists) provided from getting any good fast
Hoop 
much of the Blue Demon break opportunities. offense in the game. "We wanted to get some
continued from page 20 
DePaul coach Joey Meyer was transition baskets, but it's hard collided with Tom Kleinschmidt pleased with the performances when you keep taking the ball and no foul was called prompt­of his players. out of the basket," MacLeod ing the response from MacLeod. "I give our kids credit. They commented. 
"We had an open floor situa­just kind of dug in and made Casebier was usually the one tion for Elmer Bennett to either the big plays when they had to. putting the ball in the basket, kick it to Brooks Boyer or kick it So I think this game was won by single-handedly outscoring the 
to Daimon Sweet. Elmer was this team's heart," said Meyer. Irish 31-20 in the first-half. shut off and Brooks took it to The tide finally turned for Overall, the Irish faced a 45­the hole and made a great DePaul with less that two min­20 deficit at the break and they move," said MacLeod. The utes remaining in the game and staggered to the locker room Notre Dame players were not the score 64-60 in Notre Dame's looking for answers. commenting on the play after favor with Ellis having just No answers were found, how­the game. fouled out. Howard hit a three­ever, and after Reed Jackson's 
With the crowd of 17,623 on pointer to bring the Blue layup put the Aces up 53-30 its feet, Stephen Howard shot Demons within one. On the next with 12:24 remaining, the sell­the technical throws for the play, Nathan stole the ball from out crowd was on their feet and Blue Demons. He missed the Bennett and went the length of the Irish were on their last legs. first shot, but nailed the second the floor to put DePaul up by Notre Dame did make a mini­one with 2.2 seconds left to give one. With 58.1 remaining, Notre run late in the game. On the DePaul a 66-65 advantage. Dame called a timeout. strength of two three-pointers 
The game should have never When play resumed, Nathan from Billy Taylor, the Irish cut been close with the Irish jump­fouled Bennett at half court. the lead to 14 with 4:33 left, but ing out to a 14 point lead at the Bennett missed the first free they would get no closer. start of the second half off an throw, but hit the second to tie The next time down the floor, Ellis slam and some hot shoot­the game. After a timeout, Jackson added insult to injury
Brooks Boyer looks up in disbelief after being Fouled against DePaul.
ing by Bennett. DePaul passed the ball around with a spectacular acrobatic With 17:15 remaining in the killing time and waiting for an NCAA tournament bid. ­
a 28-8 run behind Casebier's 22 layup and Notre Dame's run game and the Irish holding a open shot. The ball was Sophomore forward Parrish points, effectively nailing Notre was over. 45-31 advantage, DePaul knocked loose and everyone Casebier was Evansville's main Dame's coffin shut. Casebier regained started chipping away at the scrambled for it. Freshman weapon as the Aces showed the "Our effort didn't match theirs consciousness in the second­
Notre Dame lead with solid free Malik Russell emerged from the NCAA selection committee that in the first part of the game," half, quietly netting 10 points to 
throw shooting and Howard mass of fallen bodies with the they deserved a bid. said a disappointed John finish with a career high 41. hitting several jumpers and the ball and the Irish called another Notre Dame's early and only MacLeod. "You have to credit "Casebier shot the living heck 
Irish missing several. timeout to set up the Bennett­lead disappeared as soon as Evansville, they're well drilled out of it," MacLeod said. "He Notre Dame finished the sec­Boyer play. Casebier caught fire. and they belong in the NCAA probably just got tired of scor­ond half with a .522 overall "That's a tough way to end a With the Irish on top 4-3, (tourney)." ing [in the second haltl because 
shooting percentage, but once basketball game and I'm sure Casebier hit the first of his eight Defense also played a big part we didn't control him." · again shot poorly from the free he feels badly about it. I think three pointers and Evansville in Evansville's success. The loss may have left Notre throw line converting only 2 of he's done a great job with that was off to the races. Elmer Bennett led the Irish Dame's NCAA tournament 11 free throws in the second team. They've really come on "We weaned him into it," with 13 points, but LaPhonso hopes in the dust, but the Irish 
half. Sweet (23 pts), Bennett (20 and they deserve a lot of Evansville coach Jim Crews said Ellis was held to eight and made it clear that they will be pts), and Ellis (12 pts, 14 rbds) credit," said Meyer. of Casebier's three-point Daimon Sweet managed just ready for the N.I.T.. which led Notre DanTe offensively in If DePaul dealt a blow to prowess. "We don't want him six. opens Wednesday night against the game. Notre Dame's NCAA tourna­making a living at it, but last "They denied us and over Western Michigan at the Joyce 
DePaul, on the other hand, ment hopes, Evansville deliv­week he started getting good played us and we didn't react Center.. shot poorly from the field (.406) ered the knockout punch. arch and good lift on his shot well to it," MacLeod explained. in the second half, but made up An up and down regular sea­and it carried over into this "They wouldn't let us throw the "It doesn't matter [where we for it with a .571 percentage son ended in a demoralizing 74-game." ball to [Ellis] and it's hard to play]," Ellis emphasized. "We 
from the charity stripe. Howard 56 loss to the Purple Aces, After his first three-point score without the ball." just want some sort of post­
(31 pts, 10 rbds), Joe Daughrity quickly ending any talk of an bomb, the Purple Aces went on Evansville's sticky man-to-season play." 
i WEEKEND WHEELS i 
: WILL RUN ON : 
i• ~1r ~ WAiliFiiiC~q~ ITJ)A1f i• 
.• .•
--~ 
: From 3:00p.m. to 6:00p.m., the bus will stop at the following places: : 
+ CAMPUS VIEW, TURTLE CREEK, LAFAYETTE SQUARE, MAIN + 
: CIRCLE, LIBRARY CIRCLE' --o··· : 
: From lO:OOp.m. to 3:00a.m., the bus will run its normal route, with a stop at : 
+ COACHES instead of Turtle Creek. -~ ~ + 
.• .•­
+ For more information, call + 
i 283-FRED i ­
+ •sponsored by Hall Presidents Council• + 
-
••.......................•.....................••• •
~ 
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, March 17, 1992 
lead midway through the first 
half. However, Notre Dame re­
covered, scoring nine straight
Whoops IVIen's basketball excited for NIT bid 
continued from page 20 
tournament after winning 23 
games and not going ... "But we're not complaining." Instead, Notre Dame will be 
preparing for its first-round matchup with UClA (19-9) this Wednesday night at 7 p.m. at Pauley Pavillion. 
Notre Dame will hope to have as much luck in the NCAA tour­nament as it has had in the MCC's. The Irish have won all nine of their MCC tournament games since the league first started the tournament in 1989. 
Notre Dame swept through the opening rounds of this year's tournament, knocking ofT seventh-seeded Dayton 74-55 on Thursday and then trouncing third-seeded Detroit Mercy 85-44. 
The second-seeded Irish set four tournament records in 
-
their rout of the Titans-largest margin of victory (41 ), fewest field goals allowed (19), best field-goal percentage, team (.611 ), and most blocked shots 
(8). 
Four Notre Dame players scored in double figures, Jed by tournament MVP Margaret Nowlin and fellow all-tourna­ment performer Sherri Orlosky with 15 points apiece. 
"We played well like this in spots, but we didn't play a 40­minute game like this all sea­son," said Nowlin. 
And against top-seeded Xavier, it appeared the Irish picked up right where they left ofT. They held the Musketeers (19-1 0) scoreless for the first three minutes of the game to take a quick 7-0 lead. 
Xavier battled back, going on a 13-4 run to grab a two-point points to take a 20-13 lead with 
6:42 to go in the half. 
The Irish shut down MCC 
Player of the Year Carol 
Madsen, holding the Musketeer 
star to just 10 points-half her 
season average. With senior 
Comalita Haysbert draped all 
over her, Madsen struggled to a 
three-of-eight shooting night 
and committed 10 turnovers. 
"Comalita's defense on 
Madsen was the difference in 
the game," said McGraw. "She 
forced her into a few turnovers, 
and she didn't even get shots, 
and that took them out of their 
offense." 
"My job was just to frustrate her, get her out of her game, and keep her below her aver­age," added Haysbert, who also scored seven points. 
Still, Xavier erased a 28-24 halftime deficit, and after Sheryl Krmpotich drained a 17­footer from the right wing, held a 44-41 lead with 8:23 remain­ing. 
Orlosky answered with a 17­footer of her own to cut the lead back to one. Then after a Xavier turnover, Coquese Washington's layin put Notre Dame back ahead, 45-44, with 
5:41 left. 
"The whole game, we were struggling just to keep the game even," said Xavier coach Mark Ehlen. "Whenever we made a run, Notre Dame seemed to answer, and they hit the big shots when it counted." 
The Musketeers tied the game at 45 on a Janet Haneberg free throw, but freshman Michelle Marciniak's jumper from the right baseline gave the Irish the lead for good with 4:31 remain­ing in the game. 
From there, Nowlin hit three consecutive baskets and fresh-
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
Though the Notre Dame men's basketball team-came up short in its quest for an NCAA Tournament bid, the Irish's season will continue in the National Invitational Tournament, which tips off to­morrow night. 
Irish coach John MacLeod, who will be making his third NIT coaching appearance, was not surprised with the bid. 
"I'm excited about the oppor­tunity to play in the NIT," MacLeod commented. "I had a feeling that out chances were slim for the NCAA. There are so many good teams and good records that it would be hard to justify putting a 14-14 team in." 
Notre Dame will play its first round game against Western Michigan (21-8) tomorrow night at the Joyce ACC at 7:30 p.m. Tickets for the contest are on sale at Gate 10 of the JACC and at both dining halls. Student tiekets are available for $4. 
The attendance at tomorrow night's game will have a large effect on where the Irish will play their second round game if they defeat the Broncos. 
The NIT does not have preset brackets, and the matchups are determined following the con­clusion of each round. Teams which draw well at home are 
man Kristin Knapp buried a 15­footer to build the margin to eight, 55-47, with 1:45 to go. Marciniak and Haysbert each followed with a pair of free throws to seal the champi­onship. 
And the Irish celebrated the irony of it all. 
usually awarded the home­
court advantage. 
The first three rounds of the 
tournament are held at campus 
sites. The final four teams then 
travel to Madison Square 
Garden for the semifinals and 
finals, which will be held on 
March 30 and April2. 
Notre Dame, which is 10-4 in 
four NIT appearances, has not 
been in the tournament since 
1984, when the Irish reached 
the final before falling to 
Michigan, 84-64. 
The Irish also reached in 1973 before losing to Virginia Tech, 92-91, in overtime. Notre Dame's NIT debut came in 1968 when it was defeated by Dayton in the semifinals, and the Irish also qualified for the tourney in 1983 when they lost to Northwestern in the first round. 
This year's NIT field features 11 teams which were ranked Sagarin's Power Ratings' Top 60, which had Notre Dame ranked 66th in the nation. 
Tomorrow night's Virginia (15-13)-Villanova {14-14) con­test (ESPN, 7:30 p.m.) features two traditional powers that did not have the type of year that they are used to having. Nonetheless, it should be a great game to watch. 
Other first round games tak­ing place tomorrow night are­UAB (20-8) at Tennessee (18­14), Western Kentucky (21-10) 
at Kansas State (15-13), 
Pittsburgh (17 -15) at Penn State 
(21-7) (ESPN, 9:30 p.m.) and 
Minnesota (16-15) at 
Washington State (21-10) 
(ESPN, midnight). 
Thursday should also pro­duce some interesting contests. The Butler (21-9)-Purdue (15­
13) is a game Irish fans should watch because there is a good possibility that the winner of this game could face the winner of the Notre Dame-Western Michigan affair. 
Other key games on Thursday are the Ball State (24-8)-Utah (20-1 0) matchup, where Utes coach Rick Majeris faces his former team, and the Wisconsin-Green Bay (25-4)­Manhattan (23-8) game, which features two of the most un­derrated teams in the 32-team field. 
Other Thursday night the contests scheduled are­Richmond (22-7) at Florida (16­12). Rhode Island (20-9) at Vanderbilt (15-14), Southern Illinois (22-7) at Boston College (16-13), Long Beach State (18­
11) at TCU (22-10), Louisiana Tech (23-7) at New Mexico (18­12). and Arizona State (18-13) at Cal-Santa Barbara (20-8). 
The first round concludes on Friday night when James Madison (21-10) travels to Rutgers (15-14). 
Vv'ERE FIGHTING Frn 'tQURUFE 
American Heart Ja 
Association V 

Tuesday, March 17, 1992 The Observer page 15 
Belles softball wins four in Ft. Myers 
Side 
By CHRIS BACON Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team enjoyed a little fun in the sun down in Fort Myers, Florida, taking four of its season's opening seven game road trip. 
"We had a fantastic time, just fantastic," explained Belles coach Don Cromer. "We played seven games, won four." 
The Belles opened their seven game stretch against Division II Bryant College, losing 2-3. Originally scheduled as a scrimmage against the 3-0 Bryant, the Belles agreed to play their opponents for the record. Bryant came close to its first loss of the season, but the Belles were not able to hold on to their 2-1 lead in the third in­ning. 
"For the first game of the season, I though the girls did really well. For a while, I thought the girls would win," explained Cromer. 
Coming off of an embarrassing scrimmage loss to Division II North Wood Institute, 11-2, the Belles took revenge with a two game sweep against Division III Marion. In their first meeting, the Belles trounced Marion 12-3. The Belles trailed 2-3 after three innings. However, the Belles shut Marion out for the re­mainder of the game, while driving in 10 runs for itself. 
In their second meeting last week, the Belles romped Marion, 7-1. Pitcher lisa Bright held Marion to just four hits for the game as the Belles annhilated their divisional rivals. Four of Saint Mary's first five batters scored runs against Marion in the first inning, putting the Belles up 4-0. Saint Mary's remained silent untp the sixth inning, as the Belles added three more runs. Senior Carol Grobner capped off the Belles sixth inning drive with a home run. 
"Carol did a real good job hit­ting for us. She has to be our mainstay," Cromer said of his centerfield. "She's a senior. We lost four seniors, plus two un­derclassmen. She is a leader and has done a fantastic job. 
The Belles swept two more upcoming Lipton tournament, in which seven of the top 16 seeds are American. More importantly, all are ranked in the top-20, with Courier leading the way as the best in the world. Following him are Sampras (4th), Chang (9th), Agassi (14th), Wheaton (15th), Derrick Rostagno (17th) and a resurgent Brad Gilbert {20th). 
As this tournament begins, it is easy to see that American tennis has made a dynamic return to the forefront of the tennis world. It's a safe bet that it will stay there for a while. 
games against nearby Rockford College. In their first game, the Belles escaped with a 11-9 vic­tory. The Belles broke open a 11-1 lead in the second half on a string of walks. The Belles substituted its entire team, giv­ing time to its freshman play­ers. However, havic broke lose against the Belles in the fourth inning, especially for pitcher Margie Pelton, as Pelton waled five of the eight Rockford run­ners. Making additional ad­justments in the fifth inning, the 
continued from page 20 
broken the European stranglehold on the world's number-one ranking, bumping Edberg out of the top spot last month to become the first American since McEnroe to hold down that place. How long he stays there, given the turbulence of men's tennis and the talent level of so many players, remains to be seen. 
All of this brings us to the 
Belles were able to hold on to their 11-9 lead. 
In their second meeting, the Belles showed no mercy, annhilating Rockford 17-2. The Belles again broke open a 5-2 lead in the second inning. Superb pitching by Bright held Rockford to just four hits, in addition to her six strikeouts. 
-
Rockford errors and poor pitching gave Saint Mary's op­portunity to break open a 14-2 lead in the fourth. 
The BAiles swing open their home season this Friday, nost­ing state rival Butler University. 

Pre-recruiting Presentation for a Career with Northwestern Mutual Life 
Smoking Stinks. 
Wednesday, March 18, 7-9 p.m. 
Don't do it.
Foster Room, 3rd Floor, Lafortune All interested students welcome to attend Casual Attire 
Presented by The 
No~ern
Hempstead Agency­
Mutual Li.e®
St. Louis, MO 
mass 
00 L:be f=BOSL: 
o-J= safDL: pat=Rfcl< 
01-J=RBO r_2 r) 
La -J=belLB oaornb 

-
FREE ROOM & BOARD
-
pac:>Ratg 
$ 5.80 PER HOUR 
SIGN UPS ON MARCH 16-20 


Tuesday, March 17, ·1992 
10 AM TO 4 PM
S:OOpn1
1m1 
CATERING EMPLOYMENT OFFICE
Basilica of the SZJcred rieart
OFFICE OF 
BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL
1,---AMPUS 
-
Rev. David Tyson, c.~. C., I' i c~ILkr
MINISTRY 
Umvers1rv of Nolle Dome llolle Dome. IN 46556 

I page 16
I 
' 
Hockey put on ice in Alaska 
By ANTHONY KING 1991-92 Associate Sports Editor 
The ·Notre Dame hocl<ey team was put on ice in the cold cli­mate of Fairbanks, Alaska, losing two games in the Independent Tournament. 
The Irish faced off against Alaska-Fairbanks in the opener. The Nanooks hockey program was founded by Notre Dame head coach Ric Schafer. Schafer's old squad got the last laugh, however, beating the Irish 4-2. 
It was the Alaska-Fairbanks who drew first blood, lighting the lamp on the power play for the only goal of the first period. After a Nanook goal in the sec­ond period, Notre Dame cut the lead to 2-1, with a shot from freshman center Brent Lamppa. 
Alaska-Fairbanks responded -by knocking in two more goals in the third period to put the game out of reach. The Irish managed another goal at with 53 seconds left, but it was too little, too late. "We did suffer a little bit of a let down," explained junior Curtis Janicke. "It was a long trip up there, and everyone was looking forward to spring break. It's been a long season." This Joss meant Notre Dame would be paired with Air Force . for the consolation game. The Falcons had recently been swept by the Irish, in the sea­son finale at Notre Dame, and they were out for revenge. They got it in dramatic fashion, with a comeback 3-2 victory. The Irish jumped out early in this game, as Lou Zadra beat Air 1-'orce goalie Mark Liebich with only 1:33 gone in the first period. Zadra added an assist in the second period, oh a goal by Sterling Black that gave Notre Dame a 2-0 advantage. The Falcons would not go away, however, and narrowed the margin to 2-1 at the 13:55 mark in the second period. The Air Force tied it up in the third period, with 10 minutes left to play. Leading Falcon scorer Eric Rice capped off the Falcon rally with the game-winning goal. Rice beat Greg Louder on a power play .with only 1:33 left 
-
in regulation. 
This will be the last Independent Tournament for the Irish (11-19-1), as .they will join the CCHA conference next season. The competition will be tougher, but Notre Dame is looking to improve. 
"It will be very difficult next year," said Janicke. "It will be a higher level of play every week­end. We will Jose some goal scorers, like Lou Zadra, and goal scorers are hard to find." 
The Irish will therefore be looking to incoming and this year's freshmen to pick up the slack. 
"We will be a better hockey team next year," explained Janicke. "We will be getting back Dave Bankoske, who is the best hockey player I've been around. The recruits coming in are very talented. And the freshman are not only a good group of hockey players, but they're also a great group of guys. There's not a bad apple 
next year." 
Make sur~e your road trip proceeds without a hitch. 

Sometimes road trips can be a little more adventurous than you 
expect them to be. Which is why you should always pack your AT&T Calling Card 0 
Its all you need to make a cali from almost anywhere to anywhere. Its the least 
. 
... 
expensive way to.fall state-to-state on AT&T when you can't dial direct. And now, 
~ ~·· 
.. 
.yo\1.could also 'get 10% back Illon all the long distance calls you make with 
your card~ 0 The AT&T Calling Card Its the best route to wherever you're going. 
Call more, save more with an AT&T Calling Card. Call1 800 654-0~~71, Ext. 59150 
• Must make at least $30 worth of AT&T Long Dostance Calls with your AT&T Card per quarter. Calls covered by special ~~~1~1~~¥ plans are not included. 
The Observer Tuesday, March 17, 1992 
Ball 
continued from page 20 
fundamental baseball," said Counsell. 
Kentucky jumped out to a two-run lead in the contest within the first two innings, but were shut down after that. Notre Dame scored three runs in the third inning to take the lead for good. 
Senior Counsell excelled at 

I ~ ~ 1 ~ IaJJ 0 J
i • • • i 
St. Patric(s 'Day Jlt %e 
* 
'University of'J{ptre 'Dame Join tlie g{ptre 'Dame Concert tJ3andfor an evening afmusica£ enjoyment 000 9vfarcli 17, 1992 -8:00 Po!Mo Joyce .!Jl.tliCetic & Convocation Center fl.Jniversity afg{ptre 'Dame 
the plate in the game as well as the whole tournament. The shortstop W"as 2 for 4 against Kentucky including a single that drove in sophomore Matt Haas to start out the three-run third. ~or the tournament, he was 7 for 16 with six runs scored and one RBI. 
"Obviously, he is our most valuable player of the tourna­ment," said Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy in an interview with the Louisville Courier­Journal. "He is a complete player and doesn't try to do 
(all For A Fr~~ 1992 Stud~nt Trav~l Catalog! 
-
.AT&T 
-
anything outside of himself." 
Overall it was an extremely successful break for the Irish who raised their record to 10­2 and added two more champi­onships to an quickly filling trophy case. Mee summed up the action over the break. 
"One of our goals is to im­prove every day and each game is a chance to do that," said Mee. "We played well (over break) and we know we did certain things well and that there things we have to work on." 

Tuesday, March 17, 1992 The Observer page 17 
SPORTSBRIEFS 
"Wf MAKE YONTV,, THf fVf · 
A CONTEMPORARY CAFE WITH A TOUCH OF THE OLD WORLD 

WEDNESDAY 
MARCH 18, 1992 
CONTEST AND PRIZES ENTERTAINMENT GIVEAWAYS 
MARCH 18-22, 1992 SPECIAL PRICES ON SELECTED ITEMS 
OPEN: 7:30 AM UNTIL 2:00 AM -MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAy 
10:00 AM UNTIL 2:00AM-SATURDAY AND SUNDAY lOCATED IN THE LOWER lEVEL OF LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
Irish softball catches fire 

By JIM VOGL Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame softball team started off the 1992 season cold, then began to heat up. 
At the Southern Illinois Tournament, the Irish lost their first three games. But they bounced back in the consolation round and beat Bowling Green 4-1 to finish third in the tourney. The game avenged a 4-0 loss in the first game and set the tone for the Florida series. 
Then, the Irish flew to Tampa and took seven of eight from tough competition. With the only loss in Florida coming to Oklahoma, Notre Dame took four from Rhode Island, one 
SENIOR FORMAL TUXEDO RENTALS FROM LOUIE'S TUX SHOP 
PRICES: 
Black Classic* ................. $41.95+TAX 
Designer Tuxedos* ............. $56.00+ TAX 
Shoes ........................ $ 8.50+ TAX 
*Includes coat, trousers, shirt, tie, cummerbund, jewelry and suspenders. 
PAYMENT: 
Partial or full payment may be made. 
(A $15.00 minimum deposit is required 
at the time of fitting). We accept cash, 
VISA, MasterCard, American Express, 
Discover and personal checks. 
WHEN: 
March 18th and 19th, 1992. (6:00P.M.-9:00P.M.) 
WHERE: 
• 
LaFortune Center, Theodore's on Wednesday, March 18th. 

• 
LeMans Hall Lobby at Saint Mary's on Thursday, March 19th. 



from Army, Princeton and one from Oklahoma. 
"We didn't play well the first two games because it was our first time out and we played some good teams," said coach Brain Boulac, who thought his team played apprehensively against the likes of Bowling Green and ·southern Illinois (ranked 12th in the pre-season). 
Today's double-header (3:00 at the Notre Dame Softball Field) is a re-match between the Irish and Bowling Green. The Irish will have the advan­tage of playing on their home field and of the confidence they gained in their early success. 
As usual, the Irish pitching staff was responsible for much of the team's success. Melissa Linn, Staci Alford and Carrie Miller managed five shutouts, three of them 1-0 decisions. 
The staff allowed only 23 runs in twelve games, a figure all the more impressive considering the 15-7 blowout of Rhode Island. 
Boulac also has to be pleased with his team's unexpected of­fensive production this early on in the season. After being shut out in the first two games, the Irish scored 45 runs in nine games including a 15 run ex­plosion against Rhode Island. 
Freshman Sarah Hayes sup­plied the power, going 16-for-40 at the plate with 9 RBis over break. She had four doubles, a triple and a homer. 
~For a freshman she came out and gave us some really exciting moments," said Boulac of Hayes, whose bat keeps her in the lineup in the outfield, at DH and at catcher. 
However, playing-time at catcher will be limited for Hayes if senior Amy Fulsom continues her fine play. 
"Amy Fulsom is playing the way she did two years ago (when she hit .302)." said Boulac who calls Fulsom both his co-captain and his offensive leader. 
"She's hitting over .300, making good contact and her on-base percentage is tremendous." 
Carrie Miller. Stephanie Pinter and Rachel Crossen also supplied big hits for the Irish. 

DON'T MISS 
THE ACOUSTIC CAFE 
this Thursday, March 19 Tom Dahill, ND Professor John Kennedy performing 
. I 
I 
basement lounge LaFortune Student Center 9:00 P.M.-I :00 A.M. 
I 
I OPEN MICROPHONE 
STUDENT PARTICIPATION ENCOURAGED
·---------------------1 
ADDITIONAL SUMMER SCHOOL COURSE 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I 1 1 1 I I 1 1 t 1 1 1 1 
Creative Writing Fiction 
ENGL 301W:Ol 1:30-2:30 MTWTF 1 W. O'RouRKE 1 
~ Aworkshop devoted to the short-and 
-
shorter-fonns of fidion writing. 1here will be assignments early on to produce aflow ofwork; then one longer stmy and i5 rewrite will be requiroo. Ananthologyofshortfictionwillbeused. 
DART CALL #0613 
...............-----·-----~---­
-----------~---­
page 18 The Observer Tuesday, March 17, 1992 
Irish Belles tennis open season 3-4 in S.C. 
continued from page 20 
worr.,Wld about the team's ad­justment to the windy Corpus Christi courts. But the Irish showed little effort in making their strongest showing of the year. 
"We were extraordinarily fortunate that we had such good weather on the Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday before break," said Bayliss. "Last year, we were lucky to win a match (in Corpus Christi), but this year the outdoor practice really helped." 
The win helped Notre Dame rise from number ten to num­ber five on this week's Volvo Collegiate Tennis poll, the high­est-ever ranking for an Irish squad. 
But four days after the new rankings were released, the Irish proved that numbers mean little, dropping a 5-4 de­cision to the Tarheels. 
Zurcher and Forsyth again fell, but each stuck the third set out to 6-4. After a switch of North Carolina's two and three doubles teams, the Tarheels took both the DiLucia-Coleman and the Zurcher-Forsyth teams in winning the match. 
Bayliss found excuses elusive for the loss in the second matchup with the Tarheels. 
"Being at home is always an advantage," he said. "We had our chances, and we were a whisker away from winning in singles, but they fought real hard and stole it from us." 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
SOCIETY~ 
~ 
By NICOLE MCGRATH SMC Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's tennis team kicked off its season with a seven game contest at Hilton Head Island, South Carolina, posting a 3-4 record. 
The Belles had a cold start when they lost their first match to Guilford College, 6-3. The next day, they came firing back, crushing Bryn Mawr 8-1. Later that evening, Ursinus fell to Saint Mary's 7-2. 
Thayma Darby strutted her stuff on the courts, all week, winning all but one of her matches. " Darby had a difficult freshman year but has gained self-confidence," said Coach Jo­Ann Nester. The games were a turning point for Darby because she learned to channel her temper constructively, according to Nester. 
Saint Mary's next challenge was Evansville, the only 
Division I opponent the Belles faced last week, but dropped the contest by a 7-2 score. Mary Cosgrove dismantled Janell Ellis 6-2, 6-2 at second singles to give the Belles their only singles win. Meanwhile, Darby and Shannon McGinn won a thrilling third-doubles match over Danielle Blessinger and Stephanie Sawyer 7-6 (3-7), 7-6 (7-5). 
"I thought we could have been 5-2 because our Swarthmore and Barton losses should have gone our way", said Nester. Saint Mary's seemed flat going into their match against Barton, a NAIA team, and ended up dropping that match 5-4. The Belles definitely fizzled against Swarthmore where the score ended up at 1-8. The Darby and McGinn duo snatched the doubles only win over Ruth Ueu and Becky Katz at 4-6, 6-4,6-3. 
The Belles finished up the 
PA,. OWEN~S, 

C:HEER UP! 
lt•s MARCH 17th and vou·RE 211 
H~f\PPV BIRTHDAY 
LOVE, 
MO, DEN, HUN & SHAMUS 
contests with a solid 6-3 win over Haverford College.First ranked in singles,Ellen Mayer blasted Allison Cohen off the courts with a 6-0,6-1 win. Meanwhile, Mary Cosgrove , third ranked in singles, stripped Shoshanna Ritt clean at 6-0,6-0. 
" The girls played excellent tennis all around", said Nester. " There was strong hard hitting tennis played on the upper courts." 
With the Belles first home game this Saturday against Albion, the team looks to im­prove the sixth singles spot. According to Nester, the spot is usually an automatic win but has proven to be difficult to fill. The spot should flesh out at practices in the weeks to come. 
THE CENTER FOR CIVIL AND HUMAN RIGHTS 
PRESENTS "SEE NO EVIL": A FILM FESTIVAL 
WED. MARCH 18, "A DRY WHITE SEASON", FOLLWED BY A PANEL DISCUSSION BY JULIUS OOSTHUIZEN, USA BOSMAN AND GARTH MEINT JES 
THURS. MARCH 19, "FOURTEEN DAYS IN MAY", FOLLOWED BY A PRESENTATION BY ALICE MILLER, DIRECTOR OF AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL'S USA DEATH PENALTY CAMPAIGN. 
FRI. MARCH 20, "MISSING", FOLLWED BY A PANEL DISCUSSION BY CHRISTIAN CORREA, PEDRO AYLWIN AND TOMAS VIAL 
7:00P.M. ROOM 120 THE LAW SCHOOL 

-
The new Apple" Macintosh'" PowerBookN computers give you the freedom to work anywhere you want, any time you want. 
They're small enough to fit in a book bag. Powerful enough for your toughest class assignments. And they're affordable, too. 
They run virtually all Macintosh software. And can run for up to three hours on asingle battery charge. They can be expanded to up to 8MB of memory and come standard with plenty of hard disk storage. The Apple SuperDrive"' disk drive reads from and writes to Macintosh and MS-DOS formatted disks-
allowing you to exchange information easily with almost any other kind of computer. Add SoftPC and you911 run MS-DOS programs, too. 
With built-in AppleTalk'" Remote Access software and a modem, you can use a PowerBook to retrieve files from your project partner's Macintosh without leaving the library. Or log on to the library computer without leaving your room. 
There are three models from which to choose: the PowerBook 100 is the lightest, most affordable PowerBook, the PowerBook 140 offers higher 
It's the next thing. 
Notre Dame Computer Store 
Room 112 Math/Computer Building 
239-7477 
performance and abuilt-in Apple SuperDrive disk drive, and the PowerBook 170 is the highest-performance PowerBook. All three offer bright, adjustable backlit screens and the simplicity ofApple's latest system software innovation-System 7. And their ergonomic, all-in-ane design makes them comfortable to use-no matter where you do your best work. 
See the PowerBook computers at our place today, and while you're in, be sure to ask us for details about the Apple Computer Loan. 
There's no telling where a PowerBook could take you. 
-
1 
1 
j Thursday, March 17, 1991 The Observer page 19 l 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON ..
GARY LARSON THE FAR SIDE 

.-. God as a kid tries to make a chicken in his room. 

"Well, I'll be darned. Says here 70 percent of all accidents happen in the hole." 
SPELUNKER 
JAY HOSLER 


' 
-·· CALVIN AND HOBBES 
BILL WATTERSON 
I{OW C<W£ '(0\l 1\t'lO LOOI<. f..\ 001-lT D\<.,IJ£ A 11-\t. BAS£ 1-\t.S COOl 'SP<JRTS 'll.\'1"\\. ~C~t. 
CAR UK\:: !-\OM \:X:£51'1T 
1\1~1 GU'(? 0~5'5 L\Kt. 
\111\P 
\ 
CROSSWORD LECTURES 
Tuesday 
12:30 p.m. Seminar/Discussion, "Macroeconomic Policy 47 Lamprey Responses to External Shocks: The Mexican Case," Juan Carlos 48 Orthodontist's Moreno Brid, Faculty Fellow, Kellogg Institute. Room C-103, 
concern 
Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
49 Barbara Eden portrayal51 Actress Powers 
52 Chemical prefix ... 53 Assessed 
MENU
54 Ardor 
·"'•
55 Sinatra movie (3 wds.) Notre Dame 
59 Daughter of Atlas 
Roast Turkey 
60 E.P.A. concern 
Irish Fried Flounder 
61 "-for Tele­
vision" Egg Foo Young 62 Work with meat 
DOWN 
29 Cockney greeting ... 
1 Tool for chamfer­
30 What Franz Klammer
ing 
can do 
2 Explorer Vespucci 
32 ----good deed
3 A.M.'s 
34 Cascaded
4 Unspecified amount a
36 Raise letters on
5 Waddling birds surface 
6 "Purple Dust" play­
37 He loved Dulcineawright 
38 Wild
7 City in central 
39 Matchmaker in "Fid­
Florida 
dler on the Roof" 
8 Get -of con­41 Manatee's relativefidence (2 wds.)
9 Actor Va 11 one 
42 Incongruous mixture18 House plant 27 Undermines 10 Hodges of baseball 43 Jargonish19 Ato11 31 Slow musical 11 Snob, in a way 46 In levels ACROSS 20·Lunar New Year movements 12 Sports employee 49 Raisin-to-be I 
21 Baba and MacGraw 33 Fraternal organiza­13 Asperse i
50 Draw out
1 Capital of Mali 22 Bobby of Black tion 15 Hinders 51 Park of Edison .._ I 
7 More humongous Panther fame 35 Dutch actor 17 Andean grazer13 Very evil or very fame 1 j
23 Fateful Philip -23 "-Boy" 56 Gad's son
brilliant 24 Character in 36 Social goal 26 Snide remark 
57 Tent fixture
14 Made use of "Little Women" 40 Bottomless pits 28 "The Wreck of the 58 ----Hill I 
16 Comprehensive cross­25 Singer Sumac 44 Novelist H.H. Mary-" I section (4 wds.) 26 More contemptible 45 Soak j l 
l 
J 


page 20 Tuesday, March 17, 1992 
RICH 
SZABO 
From the Sidelines 
The seedings at the upcoming Lipton International Players Championships at Key Biscayne, Florida, tell of an uprising in the world of men's tennis, an American uprising, that is. 
Back in the early 1980s, after Swedish superstar Bjorn Borg retired, the tennis hierarchy was ruled by the bad boys of the game, John McEnroe and Jimmy Connors. Their tremendous talent on the court was matched only by their fiery tempers. They were successful. though, and that's what mattered. 
After a young Czechoslovakian named Ivan Lend! finally broke through to the top, Americans seemed to fall from glory. Sure, Mac and .limbo were still playing strong, but the mid­'80s belonged to Europe. as Lend!, Swedes Mats Wilander and Stefan Edberg, and a hard-hitting German named Becker flexed their tennis muscle and collectively deposed the American kings of the court. 
America did produce its share of potential tennis superstars back then, such as Jimmy Arias, Tim Mayotte, and Aaron Krickstein, but none of them truly fulfilled their potential and none of them were good enough to take it all the way. 
Lend! had a stranglehold on the number-one ranking for most of the mid-'80s before yielding to Wildander briefly, then Edberg and Becker. American tennis, though not bringing home many titles, was slowly and silently rebuilding, energizing itself with youth and enthusiasm while preparing for a coup de tat that would bring it back to the forefront of the world scene in the latter part of the 1980s into the '90s. 
The uprising started with a flashy young phenom named Andre Agassi, who captured everyone's attention with his rebellious style and pounding groundstrokes. From there came Michael Chang, the first American in nearly 40 years and the youngest male to win the French Open on the clay of Roland Garros when he won the title in 1989. 
. A year later, Agassi seemed to blossom, reaching the finals of two Grand Slam events, the French and 
U.S. Opens, but falling in each. The tennis world was shocked as Pete Sampras captured the U.S. Open over Agassi in 1990, bursting out of nowhere to tennis stardom. 
Last year, it was Jim Courier's turn to step into the forefront, as he defeated the luckless Agassi to claim the French crown. Yet another American to hit the b.ig time, David Wheaton put on a thrilling show at Wimbledon before falling in the semifinals. 
Coupled with the emergence of this new corps of American tennis su­,l perstars is the throwback to the days of yesteryear provided by McEnroe and Connors. Connors, the hometown favorite, reached the semifinals of last year's U.S. Open before falling to Courier, while McEnroe controlled his temper and fine-tuned his tennis en route to a quarterfinal showing at this year's Australian Open. where he too 
... 
fell victim to Courier. Courier, by the way, has broken the 
see SIDE I page 15 
INSIDESPORTS 
•softball 
catches fire See page 17 

•Hockey 
ends season See page 16 

•NIT 
Preview See page 14 

•women's 
tennis drops 3 See page 12 


Irish teams ready for postseason 

Men drop two 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
and JASON KELLY 
Sports Writers 
The Notre Dame ba.sketball 
team lost a pair of basketball 
games over break starting 
with DePaul on March 7 and 
ending with Evansville on 
March 9. 
The loss to the Blue 
Demons came in the closing 
seconds of the ballgame on a 
technical foul called on Irish 
coach John MacLeod. The 
technical was called after 
MacLeod responded 
vehemently to the lack of a 
call on what appeared to be a 
flagrant foul on sophomore 
Brooks Boyer. 
"I should've· kept my composure," said MacLeod on his radio show following the game. "I'm at fault. It's my responsibility to keep my thinking head on. That was about the 15th flagrant thing that had happened. I should not have reacted the way I did. I probably cost us the ballgame and kept our kids from winning." 
With the score tied at 65 and 8.8 seconds remaining in the game, Notre Dame inbounded the ball. Senior Elmer Bennett passed to Boyer who drove inside looking for a shot. Boyer 
see HOOP/page 13 
Baseball continues to roll; Irish win two tourneys 
Men win H.E.B. Classic 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Associate Sports Editor 
Like many other Notre Dame students, the Irish men's tennis team spent some of its spring break on Texas' Gulf coast. 
But while most of th~r peers soaked up sun and beer at South Padre Island, the mem­bers of Bob Bayliss' squad swept through four matches, and won the prestigio111s H.E.B . Collegiate Classic int Corpus Christi, Tex. But the North Carolina Tarheels, whom the Irish defeated to win tlhe H.E.B. tournament, returned the favor in Chapel Hill, N.C. Saturday afternoon. 
Notre Dame, seeded first, tore through the first three rounds of last weekend's tourney, defeating its opponents without playing a doubles match. The Irish beat Florida State 5-l, Colorado 6-0 and Ball State 5-1, setting up a battle in the finals with thirteenth-ranked North Carolina. 
The Irish had a tou~rher time 
Women aim high ~.. ­
ii'[J!tI~. -Wfil By RENE FERRAN 
1991-92 Associate Sports Editor 
CINCINNATI-"This is the supreme irony of them all." 
So said Notre Dame women's basketball coach Muffet McGraw after her team's 59-54 victory over Xavier on Saturday. 
With the win, the Irish cap­tured their fourth consecutive Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference championship, and more importantly, their first­ever bid to the NCAA Tournament. 
The irony comes in the fact that Notre Dame (14-16) qualifies for the 48-team field as the first sub-.500 team to ever reach the NCAA's. This coming after stringing together four straight 20-win seasons and receiving just two NIT berths. 
And it's also ironic that after all the preseason hype had died down with a 4-11 start, the Irish ended the season exactly as predicted-celebrating an NCAA bid on the Riverfront Coliseum floor. 
"This is poetic justice after going through a season like this," said McGraw. "We are playing very well right now, but to have a losing record and still getting into the
The Observer/John Rock 
Michelle Marciniak helps cut down the net after a MCC 
see WHOOPS/page 14
Championship. 
with the motivated Tarheels, as Notre Dame's second-, third-, and sixth-ranked singles play­ers fell. Irish number-two Andy Zurcher and number-three Will Forsyth suffered through straight-set losses. 
But the Irish doubles teams, which have looked strong all season, came through when the pressure was applied. David DiLucia and Chuck Coleman's 8-5 victory over Roland Thornquist and Chris Mumford, combined with Zurcher and Forsyth's 8-3 treatment of Woody Webb and Sean Steinour, gave the Irish their first victory at the Corpus Christi tournament. 
"This is one of the three biggest tournaments of the year," said Irish coach Bob Bayliss. "Except for the NCAAs, . ' · this is the biggest win we could have." 
Before last weekend, the Irish had not played a single outdoor 
match in 1992, and Bayliss was The Irish men opened the outdoor season with a win at the see IRISH/page 18 H.E.~ Classic which has propelled the team to a number five rankmg. 
Junior Pat Leahy (3-0) was the winner for the Irish with some help from freshman Craig Allen and junior Chris Michalak in the last two innings. In his seven innings of work, Leahy gave up three hits and three runs while walking four and striking out six. 
The previous weekend, the Irish also had a 3-1 record in another good tournament showing. Louisville, Indiana, and Kentucky fell prey to solid Irish pitching and hot hitting. Defense was also key with the Irish allowing just four runs in their three wins. 
In the championship game against Kentucky, Notre Dame came through with a 6­2 victory on the arm of junior pitcher Dave Sinnes. Sinnes pitched seven innings giving up seven hits, but stuck out just as many. 
The secret to the game was just plain good baseball according to senior Craig Counsell. 
"Dave Sinnes did a great pitching and we executed on offense. It was real good 
see BALUpage 16 
By JENNIFER MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame baseball team enjoyed a highly successful spring break winning tournaments in Louisville, Kentucky and in Seattle, Washington. 
Last weekend, the Irish swept through the College Baseball Classic with a 3-1 record and wins over Washington, Yale and in the championship game, Washington State. The Irish faced Brigham Young earlier in the tournament, but lost 7­3. 
The championship game was played on Sunday with Notre Dame topping Washington State 9-6. Senior captain Joe Binkiewicz led the way at the plate for the Irish with a towering three run homer in the eighth inning that put Notre Dame ahead for good. Sophomore Greg Layson, senior captain Cory Mee, and freshmen Bob Lisanti and Robby Birk adding two hits apiece in the game. Mee and junior Eric Danapilis contributed two RBis each. 
r---------------------------------------------------------­
Sports 
The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz 


