

VOL. XXIV NO. 93 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Carters named winners of first Notre Dame Award 
Food relief from West reaches former Soviets 
Special to The Observer 
Former President Jimmy Carter and Hosalynn Carter have been named by the University of Notre Dame as the inaugural recipients of the Notre Dame Award for interna­tional humanitarian service. 
The Carters are scheduled to accept the award March 23 at 7 
p.m. at the Center for Continuing Education on cam­pus. The former president and first lady will receive an in­scribed piece of crystal from the University and Mr. Carter will deliver a lecture. 
"We intend this new award to provide prominent and lasting recognition of international humanitarian service." said University President Father Edward Malloy. "We can think of no finer examples of such service than President and Mrs. Carter." 
Unlike the Lactare Medal, pn~sented annually by Notre Dame since 1883 to American 
HPC rejects 'gag rule' amendment 
By BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 
llall Presidents' Council (HPC) voted Tuesday 23 to 14 to op­pose an amendment to the by­laws of its charter that would require unanimous consent to prevent members from dis­cussing IIPC business outside of the meetings. 
The amendment, proposed by St. Edward's Hall president Rob Pritchard, read. "Unanimous consent of all voting members of the Hall Presidents' Council is required to prohibit, restrict, or discourage members from publicly diseussing the contents of any meeting, special session, committee or subcommittee of llall Presidents' Council." 
Pritchard first proposed the amendment at last week's meeting of IIPC meeting where other members asked that he add the word "unanimous" to the statement. Pritchard said that he thought the amendment would be supported after mak­ing the change. 
IIPC also unanimously passed a resolution proposed by David Ccrto, District 1 Student Senator, for the Off-Campus Crime Subcommittee. 
The resolution, unanimously passed Monday by the Student Senate, calls for funding of Weekend Wheels by Student Affairs. distribution of infor­mation packets to off-campus students. the formation of neighborhood watch programs, distribution of statistics con­cerning crime ncar campus, and increased patrolling of student residential areas. 
I!PC also attended a seminar on the usc of ND Info, a com­puter program that compiles information from the registrar, 
see HPC I page 4 

Catholics who are distinguished in their professions, the Notre Dame Award is international and interfaith in scope. 
"In keeping with Notre Dame's Sesquicentennial obser­vance and the themes of in­quiry, belief and community," Malloy said, "recipients of the Notre Dame Award will be peo­ple for whom learning has been a wellspring of action, for whom religious faith has nur­tured deed, and for whom in­quiry and belief have inspired service to the world community. The Carters possess these traits in abundance." 
Jimmy Carter, 67, was born in Plains, Ga .. and raised in the nearby town of Archery. He graduated from the U.S. Naval Academy with a bachelor of science degree in 1946 and rose to the rank of lieutenant, senior grade. 
Carter left the Navy in 1953 and took over his father's farm and farm supplies business in Plains. He also became involved in community affairs and in 1962 was elected to the Georgia 

Jimmy Carter 

Senate. lie waged his first gu­bernatorial More campaign in 1966 and in 1971 became Georgia's 76th governor. 
On Dec. 12, 1974, Carter an­nounced his candidacy for the Democratic presidential nomi­nation, and despite beginning as a virtual unknown, went on to defeat President Ford in the 1976 election. 
Among his accomplishments in the White House were the Camp David accords establish­ing peace between Egypt and Israel, the Panama Canal treaties phasing out U.S. control 
The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Tune in 
Dan Sheridan plans the music for his show later in the evening. "It's Music to Eat By" airs weekdays on WVFI from 5-7 p.m. 
MOSCOW (AP) -Another giant C-5 U.S. Air Force trans­port plane flew relief supplies to Russia today, and the first meals of donated food -in­cluding pork chops and mashed potatoes -were served at a Moscow soup kitchen. 
The U.S.-led airlift that began Monday will meet only a frac­tion of the need -the first planeload had 100,000 meals for Moscow, a city of 9 million. The $78 million effort is small compared to the more than $80 billion in aid the European Community has sent since 1990. Germany alone has sent $45 billion. 
"It's a little shameful that my country has come to this. But what can you do? That's life," said Pvt. Andrei Chernyi, a 19­year-old recruit helping unload supplies from a U.S. cargo plane. 
Salvation Army volunteers today began dishing out the first of the donated meals at a cafeteria in southeastern Moscow. The soup kitchen, which began operations Jan. 1 with the help of private spon­sors and the Red Cross, usually feeds 300 people a day. 
About 30 people -mostly elderly, invalids and poor with families -were the first to be served today. The menu was cream of chicken soup with dark Russian bread, followed by pork chops, mashed pota­toes, corn, juice and vanilla pudding. 
"Oy, we're very grateful. That's very good. It's wonderful when people look after and respect old people," Olga Korolyova. an 86-year-old pen­sioner, said of the meal. 
President Boris Yeltsin of Russia, who has chastised the West for slowness to respond to his country's need for food, expressed thanks Monday but skirted the question of whether he was satisfied with the two­week-long airlift. 
"We cannot judge whether it is sufficient or insufficient," he said on television. "One must just express gratitude that it is coming , that at such a difficult time people wholeheartedly want to give some sort of assis­tance to Russia." 
The American food supplies -mostly rations left over from the Persian Gulf War -will provide only a few days worth of meals to people unable to keep up with rising food prices. 
For Russians, the cuisine may be as unfamiliar as the sight of American Gis. Translators were put to the test to explain chili con carne, dehydrated fish sticks, beef with gravy and ap­ple pie filling. 
Also donated are B-rations. bulk containers of food that had been stored in Spain and Italy since the war ended early last year. 
"It's all stuff that will make mouths water in Moscow." said Salvation Army Capt. Sven-Erik Ljundholm. 
He said guards were sta­tioned to prevent theft. "We will watch every pallet, every can, to be sure it gets where it's sup­posnd to," said Ljundholm. 
The airlift, dubbed "Operation Provide Hope," began with flights from Germany and Turkey, and continued today with one more flight from Germany. More than 64 flights are planned to carry about 2,000 tons of food and medicine to 23 points across the 
see RELIEF I page 6 
over the waterway, and the establishing of diplomatic rela­tions with the People's Republic of China. 
Throughout his term of office, he was an outspoken advocate of human rights, which he made an integral element of 
U.S. foreign policy. 
Since leaving the presidency, Carter has continued to address world issues as a professor at Emory University in Atlanta and through numerous programs coordinated by the Carter Center. 
One of his top priorities has been Habitat for Humanity, which he serves both as a direc­tor and by pitching in with a hammer and saw on the orga­nization's home-building pro­jects for the needy in this coun­try and abroad. 
He also has been visible and effective in resolving conflicts around the world. He helped cool tensions in Nicaragua in 1990 by monitoring the national elections and assuring that the Sandinista government then in power had permitted a free and fair choice. A year earlier in Panama, he served in a similar role, and when he found the election to be a fraud, never flinched in saying so. 
lie brought representatives in Ethiopia's 30-year civil war to the bargaining table in 1989, and he has worked for several years in an effort to bring sta­bility to Haiti. 
"We don't want to duplicate what others can do," he told the Washington Post. "But there's a vacuum we are attempting to fill." 
A 1946 graduate of Georgia Southwestern College, Rosalynn Carter works closely with the Mental Illness Foundation, the International Commission on Peace and Food, and her own Institute for Human Development. In addition, she often is side-by-side with her husband building Habitat homes. 
Both Carters already hold honorary degrees from Notre Dame. In 1977, then President 
see CARTERS I page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Scapegoats found for American woes 
Thank goodness for Japan. 
Our litlle buddies on the 
Pacific have certainly 
proved to be good for 
America in one aspect. 
They certainly make good 
political scapegoats for a 
faltering United States 
economy. 

"Mr. K Car" Len laeocca, a group of other "poor. mistreated" American business leaders and our beloved president went hand-in-hand on a journey to the Orient, blasting the Japanese for unfair trade practices. 
"Them lyin', eheatin', connivin' .laps have 
killed us with their cheap labor and dirty 
business practices," whined a distraught 
Yosemite lacocca. 

And after Bush put the final exclamation 
point on the journey, by hurling on the prime 
minister, back to America they carne. 
Bush carne back with a strict promise from 
the Japanese that they would let more 
Matchbox ears in, and the U.S. promised to 
pay for the prime minister's dry cleaning. 
Since their return, Japan bashing has be­come en vogue. laeoeea started the trend, with his swashbuckling commentary on the trip. 
Suddenly, everything has become the Japanese's fault. The economy, unemploy­ment, our loss of' industrialization, why Johnny Carson isn't funny, and why little Joey didn't do his homework can all be blamed on Japan. 
I have to admit, they are really are a lot smarter than I thought they were. 
Somehow the Japanese were able to infiltrate the upper levels of government and big business, and destroy the fabric of American society. 
In the biggest secret attack since Pearl llarbor, the Japanese switched General Mo­tor's and Ford's plans for hi-tech ears in the 70's with plans for Pintos, Gremlins, and Volares. What a cheap shot! 
Not only did they ruin our automobiles, those dastardly villains got a agent into the 
U.S. Education Department and wrecked our school systems. Consequently, thanks to our sushi-eating friends, our education system has become one of the worst in the world. 
Thanks to Mr. K Car, Americans are now properly Jap-phobes, afraid to be connected with anything Japanese. 
In Seattle, the Mariners are for sale and the Japanese owners of Nintendo, have made the best oiTer. 
The baseball commissioner, Fay Vincent, is pondering whether to let them purchase it, and corrupt the great American past-time. 
Hecently, a factory has barred those em­ployees with Japanese cars to park in the front parking lot. Because they chose to sell out, they park in the back. 
That's great, that's what America is all about, freedom. 
Well, Japan, you better straighten up, or next time we'll send Quayle who will do more than hurl. 
The views contained in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Today's Staff 
Production News 
Lisa Bourdon Paul Pearson Kristin Lynch Kelly Lynch 
Sports Graphics 
Rolando deAguilar Beth Duane 
Accent VIewpoint 
Paige Smoron Rich Riley Patrick Moran Jeanne Blasi 
Illustrations Lab. Tech 
Jake Frost David Lee 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
--, . --1 --L....-.\AI 
Wednesday, February 12, 1992 
FORECAST: 

Variable cloudiness today with highs in the upper 20s. Fifty percent chance of light snow tonight with the low near 22. 
TEMPERATURES: 
H  l  
45  41  
53  31  
43  36  
25  7  
46  41  
36  24  
36  8  
18  11  
Helena  27  23  
Honolulu  80  60  
Houston  68  48  
Johannesburg  84  59  
Lhtle Rock  58  29  
London  52  36  
Los Angeles  59  53  
Mlarri Beach  70  61  
Mpls-Sl. Paul  29  21  
New York  30  14  
Paris  48  36  
Portland  56  43  
San Diego  63  56  
South Bend  3Q  16  
Tokyo  48  34  

Pressure Warsaw 37 25 Washington. D.C. 37 20
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW Via AssociBied Press 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD IRA bomb does not deter Quayle 
•London-A bomb apparently planted by the IBA was found by police Tuesday near government buildings where Vice President Dan Quayle was scheduled to meet with British officials, the home secretary said. The device was discovered after several bomb warnings reportedly prompted authorities to evacuate the build­ings. Home Secretary Kenneth Baker said the bomb was found in a telephone booth near the Foreign Office. lie said quick action by police could have "saved a great deal of destruction, damage, possibly even death." Sky Television said telephoned bomb warnings were made in the name of the Irish Hepublican Army by callers using a recognized code. The U.S. Embassy said Quayle had not changed his schedule. 
NATIONAL Health plan ignores mental illness 
•washington-President Bush's health care proposal ignores the needs of millions of Americans who suffer from mental illness, the American Psychiatric Association said Monday. "The president is sending the clear mes­sage to all Americans who suffer from mental illness: 'We do not need care if you get the treatment you need,"' said Dr. Melvin Sabshin, medical director of the group. Bush's plan would allow states to set basic health coverage stan­dards and provide tax credits and deductions to help Americans buy insurance. But no state would be required to cover treatment for mental illness or addictive disorders. "The president wants his administration to be a thousand points of light, but his health care plan leaves 23 million American in total darkness," Sabshin said. 
OF INTEREST 
•Lunch 
tasters: There will be a meeting at 11:15 in the Center for Social Concerns chapel. Father McDermott will be giving a talk. Everyone is welcome. 

•Attention 
Seniors: Pat Ryan of the Inner City Teaching Corps will be at the CSC today to interview those who have already applied for the program. 

•Multicultural 
Executive Council applications deadline is Friday. You can pick up applications in the Student Activities Office on the Third Floor of LaFortune. Deadline is Feb. 14. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/Februaryll 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX .q... 250,679,500 228.94 "tT 0.01 S&P COMPOSITE 413.76 f-0.01 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,251.57 • 6.49 

PRECIOUS METALS aow-t $ .60 to $356.20/oz. SILVER4-t 0.3¢ to $4.173/oz. 
Storms in LA pose many problems 
•Los Angeles-Helicopters flying in driving rain and lightning plucked motorists from ear roofs where they scrambled to escape floodwaters in the city's westl~rn suburbs. Other motorists dung to trees after the Los Angeles Hiver overflowed a huge recreation anm Monday afternoon and sent a torrent of water onto busy Burbank Boulevard. Hescuers flew at least three Fire Department helicopters and paddled rafts to bring about 50 motorists to safety. The storm dumped more than six inches of rain in the San Fernando Valley, a white-collar suburb of homes, office parks and malls. Los Angeles County health officials, afraid the rain might swamp a waste treatment plant and cause a spill of raw sewage, dosed 60 miles of beaches. The waters rose to 25 feet in the Sepulveda Dam Hecreation Area, a huge crate-like area of golf courses and wildlife preserves. 
CAMPUS Some financial ajd may be too good 
•Notre 
Dame, IN-It appears to be the time of year when college students are most vulnerable to financial aid organizations of questionable validity, according to Joseph Russo, director of Financial Aid. At least one student has received a letter notifying him that he is eligible to receive an allegedly customized scholarship based on the individual's academic and financial status, he said. The letter, from an organization called the National Scholarship Foundation, asks the student to call a certain number within 72 hours; then the student must call a 900 number -at a cost of $3 per minute -to get more information. "Buyer beware," said Husso. "When something appears to be too good to be true, it probably is" in the financial aid business. 

•summer 
residence hall staff applications are now available in the Office of Student Hesidences, 311 Main Building. 

•The 
third clue for the Knott Hall charity medallion hunt is: "As much as we treasure our lady of the Dome, she does not look towards the Medallion's home. Stonehenge, the 'Brare and the pool of reflection, the medallion lies in their general direction." Subsequent clues will follow throughout the week. Whoever finds the medallion should return it to 419 Knott llall to claim the prizes. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•ln1809: 
Abraham Lincoln, the 16th president of the United States, was born in a log cabin in what is now Larue County, Ky. 

• 
In 1870: Women in the Utah Territory were granted the right to vote. 

•In 
1909: The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, America's oldest civil rights organization, was founded. 

•In 
1973: The first of the American prisoners of war from the Vietnam conflict were released. 

• 
Ten years ago: President Reagan said he was asking for a full report on whether a group of U.S. military advisers in El Salvador had acted properly in carrying M-16 rifles, as seen in a CNN videotape. 



--------------------~------------------------~-------------. 
Wednesday, February 12, 1992 The Observer page3 
New program brings first aid to dorms 
By MOLLIE MUDD Gutierrez's idea for this pro­Gutierrez said. 
News Writer gram came when he noticed at FAST members have varying the end of last year, that there levels of certification which in­had been several accidents in clude: Standard First Aid, Adult 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's his dorm. "I felt it was wrong CPR, Community CPR, Basic First Aid Services Team has that I was trained and could Life Support and Advanced added another medical assis­assist [the victims], but no one First Aid. Gutierrez said that tance program to their volun­knew it. The patient therefore, "treatment provided by a FAST teer organization which will went without treatment for member will not, in any way, be soon benefit the ND/SMC com-several minutes until Security above his level of certification." munity. got there," Gutierrez said. There is another benefit to 
This new program is called Ryan Trzaskowski, Assistant the dorm from this program.First Aid Services Team Coordinator of FAST, said that Most RAs, though required to Member Dorm Registration "for the past three years, I have be trained in CPR, are not regu­(FAST MDR). made an open offer to my rec­larly practicing and/or using 
The MDR program consists of tor, that I would help in any thier medical training, accord­
FAST members, who on a medical situation." ing to Gutierrez. strictly individual basis, elect to Trzaskowski added that in such Since FAST members are be registered with his/her re­"medically semi-serious situa­constantly required to use their spective dormitory as a trained tions, like too-much alcohol, certifications in such instances emergency responder. The vol­there's a question of whether as football and basketball unteer agrees to be on-call 24 the person can sleep it off or if games, concerts, Domer runs hours a day. should an emer­they need to go to the hospital. and many other campus events, gency arise, and they are given I can accurately take vital signs; they are better prepared to access to the dorm's first aid I can help make that decision." handle immediate situations, kit. "There are plenty of FAST he said. 
Fernando Gutierrez, Student members in the dorms, it's just FAST currently has about 50 Coordinator of the ND/SMC that no one knows who they active members within the First Aid Services Team, said are. With this program, there Notre Dame/Saint Mary's "the program should begin next will be a listing of dorm FAST community. They are always week. We will be choosing members available for emer­open to new members. dorm leaders, who will be re­gency situations. With MDR, Gutierrez said that "there are sponsible for making the first hopefully everyone, including certification classes going on aid kit available and posting the the victim, will feel more confi­every week at the Rock and the names, phone numbers and dent if a trained and experi­Health Center, and they are addresses of the FAST MDR enced FAST member is with free for FAST members." members within their dorm." them before the EMTs arrive," Fernando Gutierrez and his 
assistant coordinators Ryan Trzaskowski, Emilio Silvas and• e••e••••e.e••e••••••ee.e ee eee.e.e.ee ee e••e•••••• Karen Micha, are "confidente • that there is a need for the • • MDR service and that students • • being officially recognized by 
.e itETOitNI1'11 FOit FfiLL .ei!trh~f;~n~se~=~:e:c~es~~:~e tion," Gutierrez said. 
: :Court will not i SEMESTER 1992??? iblock Haitian 

: : repatriation 
• • WASHINGTON (AP)-TheA d II t •• Supreme Court today refused to
• n a vance enro men 
block the repatriation of
e e Haitian refugees but left opene e the possibility it could take 
e ~ e such a step later this week.
d $100 • The court gave the Bush ad­
• • ministration until 3 p.m. Friday
0 rm an 
• to respond to an emergency re­
• (•f • d) 
e quest, filed Monday by lawyers
• I requ1re •for the refugees. aimed at halt­
• e ing all forced repatriations on •
MUST b •I d t •}~~e~e~~~~~ti~~t~~~:~~-atians
• e maI e 0. • 
Only Justice Harry Blackmune • e voted to block the forced re­• • turns to Haiti pending the ad­
• Unl·verst·ty of Notre Dame • ministration's response and 
further court action. The court 




h. o'fr· 
is not expected to take further
• CaS Ie r S ICe • action in the case untn receiv­
e • ing the response from Justice : Notre Dame, IN 46556-5632 : D;p::~ee;~~:~:~~-filed with 
Justice Anthony Kennedy. who 
referred it to the full court. e e The request alleged that U.S. e e officials knew but didn't tell the e e Supreme Court last month that
• •. •refugees returned to Haiti were
DEfiDLl E FnbrUGry 26. 1992 • tortured, killed or persecuted.
• 
' The request added, "This

• 
e may well be the last e e opportunity (the Haitians) have e " • to right the egregious wrongs • • foisted upon them." 


• I 
If you have not received an advance • n!~~Jg~~i~:a~ff~~~atlss~~~
e e Haitian refugees have told au­
• 
enrollment form and are a continuing • thorities they suffered persecu­

• 
e tion when returned to their homeland by the Coast Guard

• 
llfldergraduate StUdent' forms may be .·Iastfallaftertryingtoescape.

• 
~ Some Haitians claim they


• bt · d f th Student Accounts 
were abused after their return
• 0 atne fOffi e • to Haiti, said Verne Jervis, a 
• Office, Room 102, Administration • ~~~k~~~u~~1f~~t~~~~~!.ation 
• • These refugees escaped again
• 
B •1d• e on the boats that have carried

• 
uI Ing. • more than 15,000 Haitians out e e of the country since the Sept.e • 30 coup that toppled the 


government of President Jean­
•................................................Betrand Aristide. 
-

j 
page 4 The Observer 
Wednesday, February 12, 1992 

Burkholder talks about communism's recent unraveling 
By GERALDINE HAMILTON 
News Writer 
"Communism has virtually disappearnd as something that commands the respnct of peo­ple," stated J. Lawrence Burkholder, president emeritus of Goshen College during a lec­ture Tuesday. 
Burkholder spoke on the topic of "China in Light of the Hussian Hevolution," which was hnld at the llesburgh Library Faculty Lounge. 
Burkholder was present dur­ing the Chinese cultural revolu­tion in 1975, during the Tiannamen Square protest in 1989 and also the aborted coup in Moscow this past year. 
Despite all that Burkholder knows about both the second Hussian revolution and China, in his opening comments he stated that it was very difficult for him to know for certain what relation the two had, so all he could do was surmise what the the Chinese were thinking and saying in reaction to the events in the former Soviet Union. 
After Tiannamen Square the facade that China put forth is 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
the library, the public relations office. and other campus groups. Nick Laflamme, Senior 

If you see news happening, call 239-5303 
AT THE RONKIN EDUCATIONAL GROUP OUR CLASS SIZES ARE LIMITED TO NO MORE THAN 10 STUDENTS PER CLASS. SIGN UP NOW FOR PREPARATION COURSE FOR SUMMER I.SAT 
This example of personalized attention IS JUSt one of the reasons our classes are filling up fast. Call now to reserve a seat. 
• 
40 Hours Of Live Instruction 

• 
Live Thtorial Available At No Extra Charge 

• 
National 800 Telephone Helpline 

• 
6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams 

• 
Constantly Updated Materials 




WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
that of everything being normal. 
"The lie is normalization," states Burkholder. People, when they arc asked in public about the state of affairs in China say that things arc fine, just as they were before Tiannamen Square happened, he said. 
"Ask people privately and they say that things are not go­ing well and they want to get out of the country, but officially China is going along normally," said Burkholder. 
The type of communism in China is different then what was in the Soviet Union, Burkholder said. The former Soviet Union, he said, had a government that was strictly centralized in Moscow. 
China is somewhat decentral­ized, promoting private owner­ship. Burkholder states that when money is tight the deci­sion making is centralized in Beijing, but when money is looser private entreprenurial­ship is encouraged. 
Yet, since communism all over the world has collapsed the Chinese are starting to feel concerned about the threat of divisions and revolts within the country, according to Burkholder. 
Systems Programmer from the Office of University Computing, said that the program has been available to students since January, and he asked if mem­bers of the HPC saw any value in its expansion. 
"We don't replace The 

• 
• ~he Cushwa Center for the StudydfL of 
American Catholicism 
invites you to attend a seminar
-ur 
• 
"THE CHALLENGE OF EVANGELICAL/PBN'rBCOSTAL CHRISTIANITY TO: HISPANIC CATHOLICISM IN THE UNITED STATES" 
Professor Allan Figueroa Deck, SJ 
•
Loyola-Marymount University 
• 
Thursday, February 13, 1992
• 
4:15 P.M. 
Hesburgh Library Lounge University of Notre Dame 
• ­
•••••••••••••••••••••••I 
There is a generation problem in China, Burkholder said. The young people are no longer interested in the philosophy of Marx; the young are caught up in western trappings, states Burkholder. 
According to Burkholder, the Chinese government is deter­mined to maintain control and order. "The Chinese are fearful of anarchy," he said. 
They are accomplishing their goals well; everyone is eating, has a place to live, and a large majority of people have jobs. 
Burkholder said that the Chinese government is "getting along fairly well, but they are doing it by repressive means. As they feel more insecure they tighten controls." 
While the Chinese govern­ment is working to maintain order and there is evident striving for more freedom from some of the people, according to Burkholder, in the former Soviet Union there was a revo­lution in which communism was beaten by democracy, but only three lives were lost, and two of those deaths were uninten­tional. 
Burkholder stated that while watching the revolt from the 
Observer or posters in the stairwells ... we are another av­enue," he said to explain the uses of ND Info as a means of publicity for campus events. 
Members of HPC responded favorably to his presentation. 
parliament building he was "amazed that there can be so much chaos without people los­ing their lives." 
"I just can't understand how a nation, a empire, can make the transition from one form of government to the other with so much chaos and so little loss of life. I'm sure people in Beijing are watching and waiting to sec what happens," he said. 
Bulkholder went on to state that if Boris Yeltsin, the presi­dent of Russia, can hold on to democracy in Russia for one or two years and outlast the chaos, democracy may be able to survive. 
The Russian people have been under communist rule for so long that they lack initiative, are used to taking orders and are very dependent, yet they are very able to endure suffering, which may be the key to the success of democracy in Russia stated Burkholder. 
"The people in Bejing are wondering what is going to happen," said Burkholder. 
There are starting to be some divisions in the different regions of China, Burkholder said. The western and eastern parts of China have always been rivals, he said; the people of the west feel that they are looked down upon by the people of the east. 
"In the Soviet Union the union broke up, could something like that happen in China? Probably not, but there are regional spir­its," Burkholder said. 
The Tiannamen square democracy forces will emerge again, but it will take time, ac­cording to Burkholder. "There is a fear that China may go the way of the Soviet Union. It would be impossible for com­munism to be moved toward democracy without a period chaos, and chaos is what they don't want," he said. 
"The young people are having second thoughts and are not going to push too strongly." 
As for the future of both the former Soviet Union and China Burkholder states, ''I'm not sure, I have a lot more faith in the stability of China then I do in the former Soviet Union." 
Yet, Burkholder also makes it clear that he is very concerned with the human rights abuses presently taking place in China. 
The United States relations to China, Burkholder believes, should be one of "conversation." He stated, " I would hope that the United States continues to express its concerns, yet remain in contact with China." 
This lecture was part of a series sponsored by the "Friends of the Library" pro­gram of service to the library and the local community. 

ND/SMC DELIVERY HOURS 4:00-9:30 7 DAYS A WEEK 


BRUNO'S NOW DELIVERS 
1.8" PIZZA, 2 ITEM LIMIT 


$:1.:1..00 
288-3320 
AVAILABLE 7 DAYS A WEEK 
~~~~~~~¥¥¥~¥¥~~~~~¥ ~ ~ 

You're Invited To Britton's
'I ~ 
Balloons, Cards, Gifts & Antiques


'I ~ 
Edison Plaza, 1627 Edison


'I ¥ 
(Adjacent to Jamison Inn)


'I ¥
CUp this coupon and Bring It In for a 20"/o discount on your purchases. Good thru February, 1992

'I ¥
Featuring Recycled Paper Cards & Gifts, Blue Mountain Arts Cards & Gifts, Far Side & Saturday Night Uve Cards & Gifts, Stuffed ~ Animals, Victorian Prints, Jewelry, and Balloon Bouquet Specials ~ 
¥ 'I Convenient Easy Shopping ~ ~ 
¥ Britton Knowles, Owner (219) 271-2001 ¥ ~~~¥¥¥~~¥¥¥¥¥~~~~~~ 
~-----~­
Wednesday, February 12, 1992 The Observer page 5 

O'Meara: New Czechoslovakia 
1992 ICEBERG DEBATES 

rebuilding its religious traditilons 
By ALICIA REALE according to O'Meara. The
ROUND Ill 
News Writer seminaries and parishes were

RESULTS 
infiltrated by the secret police.

February 11 
The Church had several un­

The Church in modern day 
derground auxiliary bishops,

AFFIRMATIVE VOTES POINTS NEGATIVE VOTES POINTS 
Czechoslovakia is trying to 
O'Meara said. "No one could 

Pangborn 0 7ans Off-campus 2 80/86 
make a 40-year bridge to mod­
know, not even their parents.

Flanner A 2 85/83 Breen-Phillips 0 75n0 
ernize religion in their country 
The punishment was two-yearLyons 2 forfeit Zahm 0 forfeit 
where religious life had been 
imprisonment." As a result ev­Siegfried 2 for,fel! Cavanaugh 0 forfeit 
forbidden since 1948, according 
eryone in the Church is very 

to Professor Thomas O'Meara
Alumni -na/na Flanner B ... ~ na/na 
dedicated, having either been Morrissey 8 1 69/91 FiSher 1 84/87 
of the theology department. imprisoned or taken a great St. Ed's 2 forfeit Keenan 0 forfeit 
risk, said O'Meara. GraceB 1 92/84 LeWiS 1 84186 
He travelled in 
Since liberation, the Church Pasquerilla East 0 69.5165 Grace A 2 82166 
Czechoslovakia in January by 
has undergone "a happy and invitation, speaking in this lib­
easy transformation througherated nation on the Church to­
O'Meara said the Church has political forces," said O'Meara.
rushed into doing everything.

day. 
"They are beginning to see the At a lecture Tuesday titled "In this country where no reli­big picture." It would be bene­

"Beyond Communism, The gious books have been pub­ficial to the Czechoslovakian

QUARTERFINALS 
lished for 40 years and no de­

Church in Czechoslovakia," he 
Church to offer scholarships
grees in Theology have been

explained that the three major

SCHEDULE 
within the country to come to
earned for 40 years, they are

topics he was asked to address 
the United States and study our were the fundamentalist
February 13 
now printing everything they 

Church, said O'Meara. Catholic perspective, the role of 
can fmd," said O'Meara. 
The Church is no longer prac­

#8 Grace A vs. #1 Flanner A 
"They perform the liturgy ac­

Thomas Aquinas today, and 
ticing the Baroque style of

#7 Lyons vs. #2 Off~Campus 
cording to Vatican II but theyDominican spirituality. 

Catholicism, because there aredon't seem to understand what

#6 St. Ed's vs. #3 Sorin 
He explained, "It was like a 
now lay people in the ministry,they're doing," he said.

Vatican II 30 years later." O'Meara said. PragueHe travelled to many different From 1948 up until the recent University already has a cities in Czechoslovakia speak­
#5 Morrissey A vs. #4 Alumni 
past, the world of priests and 

Theology class for lay people. ing before many people on 
diocese were controlled by the The Church is very focused government of Czechoslovakia,these topics. 



The Observer/Brendan Regan 
Notre  Dame  as a  Catholic  University  
Ideas and Issues of the Student Union  Committee Board  

presents 

TEACHING VS. RESEARCH: 
HOW WILL THE TRANSITION TO A NATIONAL CATHOLIC RESEARCH INSTITUTION AFFECT STUDENTS? 
A Student Forum Exploring the Future of Undergraduate Education at Notre Dame 
Panel Discussion featuring: 
Morton S. Fuchs Chairman, Professor, Biological Sciences 
David K. O'Connor Associate Professor, Philosophy 
Timothy R. Scully, C.S.C. Assistant Professor, Government 
William D. Nichols Professor, Accountancy 
Including: Student Government Heport to the Board ofTrustees 

Wednesday, February 12 8pm 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
on externals because of the recent liberation. These externals are very precious because religious life had been forbidden and thus the Church is very traditional, said O'Meara. "So much is being fixed up so fast," he said. 
They are working at explain­ing Christianity to the young people who know nothing about it, according to O'Meara. During the liberation of 1988­89, 70 people joined the clergy and 40 or 50 have entered since. 
Campaigning intensifies in 


N. Hampshire 
CONCORD, N.H. (AP) ­Democratic presidential candi­dates today opened an intense drive to court the big bloc of undecided voters in next week's showcase New Hampshire pri­mary. "Things are fluid," said Sen. Tom Harkin following his favorite-son victory in the Iowa caucuses. 
With the first trophy of the 1992 campaign in hand, Harkin was returning today for the finishing burst in New Hampshire, where his cam­paign has yet to command the kind of attention he received at home Monday night. 
Harkin received almost 80 percent of the vote, a result he deemed "far better than I ever imagined." He dismissed his trailing position in tll,e polls in this state and said. in an inter­view on NBC's "Today" he could win here next Tuesday because "the people are a lot like the people of New Hampshire." 
"All I can say is stay tuned, because things are happening in New Hampshire, things are fluid, almost 50 percent are undecided, they're making up their minds ... " he said. 
"I am in this to the end and I believe you're going to be very, very surprised at what happens in New Hampshire." His rivals skipped Iowa, forfeiting to 

-I 
Harkin and trying to deny him any claim to campaign momen­tum -even as they jockeyed for some of their own during






·-----·-~--~L 
Harkin's absence from New Hampshire. 

page 6 The Observer Wednesday, February 12, 1992 

11:1 Russian soldiers ~ and Salvation Army workers take the supplies to soup kitchens and other .: 
:~sr~~:;~:'eo:1~V:~:;;~k::~:~:::::~::l..··, .•. the people. ... ·· · 
Relief 
continued from page 1 
Commonwealth of Independent States. 
"The Cold War is over, and now it is time for all to join in building a new peace," Secretary of State James Baker, III, said Monday. 
Baker hinted Washington may be willing to discuss a multibillion dollar fund to sta­bilize the ruble and allow a fixed-rate currency exchange. 

Carters 
continued from page 1 
Carter received an honorary doctor of laws degree and was the University's commencement speaker. In his speech, one of the major foreign policy ad­dresses of his presidency, Carter talked of a diminishing threat from the Soviet Union. 
Mrs. Carter received her honorary degree in 1987, but her association with the University dates to 1979, when 
1-il U:S. military 
~personnel 
unload aid packages with Soviet recruits. 
To prevent 
supplies from falling 
into the hands of the 

market, Salvation Army 
ride the trucks from airports to patrolled 
military warehouses. 

But he said such a plan would require a workable economic reform plan and Russian mem­bership in the International Monetary Fund. 
American officials acknowl­edge the U.S. relief will be quickly exhausted. 
"This is very insignificant in terms of the total need. It's only a symbolic gesture," said Tom Brennan of the U.S. Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance. 
To meet the real needs of the commonwealth would take an effort "1,000 times bigger," he said. 
she joined with Father Theodore Hesburgh, then Notre Dame's president, on the National Cambodia Crisis Committee. The group raised millions of dollars to battle mass starvation in that country and to assist refugees. 
Since then, the former first lady has become a familiar fig­ure on campus. She currently serves on the advisory council of the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and last fall delivered a speech at the dedication of Notre Dame's Hesburgh Center for 
International Studies. 

Thinkingofdoing ayearofservice? Howabout doingit 

for alifetime? 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
AP 
Reduce Reuse Recycle 

Thank You 

IU fraternity suspended following hazing incident 
BLOOMINGTON, lnd.{AP)-The Indiana University fraternity where a pledge almost died recently from drinking too much alcohol was temporarily suspended Monday by its national organization. 
Alpha Tau Omega national headquarters, in Champaign, Ill., took no action following an informal investigation at the end of January, immediately after the incident. 
"Initial evidence suggested that it was an isolated incident and the choice of the individu­als involved," ATO Executive Director Mark Thorsby said in a Monday news release. "However, new allegations have surfaced that require further investigation." 
ATO Director of Communications Wynn Smiley of the national office said the decision to investigate further was made after seeing news re­ports Sunday and Monday that the incident may not have been isolated, but part of pledge "dads" night at the fraternity. 
Pledge dads night is when pledges are assigned fraternity member "fathers." 
The decision also was based on reports from the national office investigator who has been in Bloomington, and on information from other people in Bloomington-including some fraternity alumni advis­ers. 
In the initial incident, ATO members brought pledge Dennis Jay, 20, an I.U. sopho­more from South Bend, to Bloomington Hospital just after midnight on Jan. 29. 
He was in a coma, and his blood alcohol level was mea­sured at 0.48, a level that is often fatal. lie was released from the hospital Jan. 30, ap­parently without long-term physical damage. 

.._..~e.. ND-SMC ~· ~.._., STUDENTS
#fJ~••~  19th Annual Program  
t!NDON  ROME June 14-July 13  
May 20-June 19  Travel in France,  
Travel in Ireland,  Germany, and  

Scotland, and France 
Switzerland Courses offered in ART, BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN, BIOLOGY, POLITICAL SCIENCE 
MEETING Monday Feb. 17 
6:30pm Carroll Hall, SMC *Free Pizza '"*Past student and facu~y participants will be present For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
******************************•
* * 
*  "'~.oc~~-o·"~-~~  * 
~he  nfn~b  Annna1  
~  W1nfi0RP0St;  ~  
**  **  
* ~  Friday, February 21 [ampuS-Wide Skating Part1}  * ~  
~ I\* ~ 7\'  ~~~~~4~j  IU:30-12:3Uatthej.A.C.C. 251' skate rentals & FREEHOTCHOCOLATE!!•\V(' rcscn•e the right lo exercise crowd control.  :tt I\* ~ "  
February 22-23 ~ 


* ~,~~-)L
A 

~* /__ ~ ,~ 
" 
** 
r=lfilhlf>l~f!!!llf'll<;.;.; ..!P'-=.._.~ ,~n;;,~ ~ ~~CSQ'f'T.~ ..
..~ G "'loll.~ 
Package includes:
* • * 
Overnight accommodations at the Days Inn
* • *
Free Continental Breakfast (Sunday AM) ~ • Discount on Ski Rentals . ~ I\ • Two-day lift ticket I\ 
~ ONLY $65!! ~ 
.lL.. Sil{n-ups for the Cabcrfae Ski Trip 
* 

7\ will be Feb. 12-14 in the S.U.B. Office (6-7 P~JJ.
* *
"l'ulll'.lynll.'nt ~~ itllhl! lime nf sign up. Anytime .1fterw.uds, please sign up .1t the 
* 

Student Government Receptioni$t's Desk (BARB).
** .. *
See individual posters for details!!!! 
* ~ * 
* ~ * 
* * 
~****************************** 
Saturday and Sunday * 
** 

Ski Trip 
to ** 






Viewpoint 
Wednesday, February 12, 1992 page 7 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
While grieving, we should not just turn away from God 
SUB holding forum on academics 
Dear Editor: undergraduate life The panel discussion will 
"Notre Dame is an under­compromises those lofty feature four university graduate institution"-Fr. educational aims. professors from various fields Edward Malloy The problems facing the ad­and various perspectives: Prof. 
"The reputation of universi­ministration and the teaching Morton Fuchs, chairman, ties are driven by the research faculty are quite clear: Biological Sciences; Prof. and graduate programs, not increasing enrollment in Arts David O'Connor, philosophy by the undergraduate & Letters during hiring department; Rev. Timothy schools." -Fr. Edward Malloy freezes; reduction in faculty Scully, government 
The new signs around cam­course loads from three department; and Prof. William pus advertising Notre Dame as classes to two per semester; Nichols, accountancy a "National Catholic Research more pressure on faculty to department. University" have many research and less time to Each professor brings wondering whether this new interact with undergraduates; valuable insight on the title, at a school as image­etc ... pressures of a faculty member conscious as this, is as No one questions the in this era, and how these innocuous as it might sound. attractiveness of the pressures will affect their The insertion of the vague reputation which accrues to interaction with students. "research" in the school's an institution filled with The evening will begin with sobriquet begs the question, world-renowned scholars. The some background given by the how will the status quo real difficulty is whether or chairperson of the Student change? not the proposed Government Report to the 
But it is the very status quo undergraduate mission of Board of Trustees on this which is difficult to pin down Notre Dame is being sacrificed issue, Karen Stohr. This report these days, from an under­in the transition to a research provides valuable information graduate's perspective. On one university. and recommendations from a hand, the undergraduate bul­If we are in the advent of the student's perspective, such as: letin still provides the clear transition and are confronted increased hiring of faculty, answer that Notre Dame is an even now with the stark teaching workshops for institution founded by the Holy reality of major problems in faculty, review of the tenure Cross order, with a clearly-de­the Colleges, what will the process, etc. There will be a fined educational mission in undergraduate curriculum question and answer session the Catholic intellectual look like down the road? to follow. tradition. In response to student inter­Please join us for the forum 
Yet when one is shut out of est and concerns about the this evening in the Hesburgh 200-1evel philosophy courses vital issues at stake in this Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. for the third time, or walks transition to a research Pat Smyth into that stuffy lecture hall institution, the Ideas and Dan Alesia overflowing with students, or Issues Committee of the Dan Dwyer is graded by that teaching Student Union Board has SUB Ideas and Issues assistant again, one wonders arranged for a student forum Feb. 9,1992 whether the reality of 
on this this ~~~~ 
DOONESBURY 
THAT'S RiGHT; CAMPeRS. 
IF Y(}()'V5 &Vt:l< 91£PTWITH 
A PR&SI{}f5NT/At-f{(HFUt-­Cl< KNOW SOMtoN/3 E/,~ UJHO HAS -lf/!3 ". tuANT ~ GIV!3 
Y(}() 1.25 IN 
70 RNP OUT If YOUR. 57DR.Y IS PRJJR/15NT IJNOUGH 7D QJJAUFY, JU~ FlU OUT TH& ATTACHW"7RA5H·fOR-CASH• £NTR.Y FORM ANP S&NO IT TO 
MtiCA!<&OF THIS PAnR.' 
GOO/) 
IJ.JCI(.! 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 

News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
Mike Tyson's new fight card 


r.------------------------------,I
CAMPAIGN'c:l2. -TRASH FOR CASH 
1. I have trash on: (atfCJ<.~) ~-I would describe my relation-1 
OBiiiCiinton ship with the O!lndidateas: 0 Paul Tson935 0 tnrrid, steamy 0 Jerry Brown Oa defining moment OTomHarkin 0 the right; thing todo 0 Bol;ll<errey OvideDtaped 0 George Bush 0 in litigation 
2. My story inVOIII\!S: 4. Thecandidate. used tocall me: Orne o•aabe" 0 my bestfriend 0 "Mommy• 
0 my evi I twin 0 "Commissioner" 0 my pu111icist 0 fltlm conven· store 0 a RepubliGan operative FI'Y phones lel'lce~ 0Geraldo '{; (JJIJTINUW
._______________________ 708 ­
'In the long run, the pessimist may be proved right, but the optimist has a better time on the trip.' 
Daniel L. Reardon 

Let there be submissions to fill the air: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Dear Editor: 
Thursday Jan. 23, 1992, is a day that will remain for many in the Notre Dame community a realization of some of our worst nightmares. In the tragic loss of two dear friends, coupled with the 35 others who were injured, we seek answers to some of our deepest questions. 
The first and probably biggest question is "Why?" Why them: two young, healthy, energetic, talented people? Many people take their grief out on God by asking, "Is this right? Is this just?" These are difficult ques­tions to answer. Using the Scriptures, however, we can learn much about life and the significance of death. 
We must realize that God is not a killer; God is love. His Son had to die, for without this death our eternal life would not be possible. Many of Jesus' disciples were martyrs, and one might ask, "Why would God allow His followers to die?" It is all a part of His ultimate plan, one that we as humans cannot always see. In the same token, Meghan and Colleen were called up to God for a purpose unseen to us at the present. 
God has given a promise to those who have accepted Him and His Son. "For we know that if the earthly tent which is our house is torn down, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens" [II Corinthians 5:1]. He has promised to take care of His followers and give them life everlasting, a life without pain, filled with His ultimate protection and glory. 
Original death was a result of human's sinfulness. Adam and Eve sinned and were told by God that they would eventually die. It was that original sin that allowed death to enter this world. God has allotted each of us seventy years according to the Scriptures, while some He calls at a young age. Grieving the loss of two friends is a natural part of our lives. 
"To every thing there is a sea­son, and a time to every purpose under the heaven: A time to be born, and a time to die ..." are the words by the writer of Ecclesiastes. In this passage we see a fundamental truth to life; that is, everything happens for a reason. Our earthly lives are but a small portion of what our lives will be after death, and thus it is important to make sure of our future after this life. 
To answer the question "Is it just for the young to die?" I must answer, no. For those who love Christ and die at an early age get to spend more time with Him in eternity. So while we continue to grieve the losses we have experienced, let us not forget the gains they are experiencing right now. 
Brad Hunter Dillon Hall 
Feb.4,1992 


Viewpoint

page 8 Wednesday, February 12, 1992 

Higher expectations for members of ND family 

I confess that for most Hoyal Family in Great Britain 
Having been absent from the by less. Notre Dame oiTers the Americans whom I initially or a Kennedy in the United Sugar Bowl for ten years, I am tools to use values, and meet, I have two distinct States. Everyone expects their certain that Notre Dame fans Congressional representatives strikes against me which I standards to be higher, their had some influence on her to choose when, if ever, to live by must overcome. First, I am a words more eloquent, their prompt that letter. those values. Notre Dame Notre Dame graduate, and deeds more noble. I grew up People tend to either love or prepares; Congress produces. seeondly, I work at the Capitol the son of our school hate Notre Dame, just as they Some of the best and for the United States Congress. principal, so I felt a similar tend to support or criticize the brightest attend Notre Dame. While each institution is pressure in dass. My father is Capitol Comments U.S. Congress. It is easy to dc­Thus, the most is cxpeeted routinely disliked in many currently the Mayor of my ery the "pork barrel projects" from them while in eollegc
By Gary J. Caruso

eireles, they arc, however, hometown, Canonsburg, in legislative appropriations and well after graduation. So quite noble in most respects. Pennsylvania. Whenever I am difficult times. Ilowevcr, the bills... until it is your commu­when I wrote about the Notre Therefore, it is incumbent home I must drive a little one dimensional aspect of the nity that is scheduled to Dame crowd at the Sugar upon those who arc part of safer, be a little friendlier, aet Notre Dame campus somehow receive a $50 million project. Bowl, I was merely pointing each institution to attempt to a little more civil than I might allows even the loneliest, most Furthermore, polls out that they displayed the dispel any misconceptions that have acted. Being in the outcast of students to consistently report that the kind of conduct we should might exist. Occasionally that spotlight can sometimes be eventually feel comfortable... institution of Congress is held appreciate in this not-so-per­is an extremely diflicult task to burdensome. to fit in, to belong. It is in low esteem while at the fect society. I had hoped that it accomplish, espeeially when The burden of which I speak definitely not the atmosphere same time "my representative would serve as a lesson for we must engage in debates also conditions us to aspire to one gets on a secular campus is doing a good job." Does those Domers who have yet to among ourselves. higher levels. The moment any like Yale or Stanford where anyone stop to realize that col­recognize their potnntial. 
I was recently castigated of us are officially affiliated the academic standards are lectively the "my representa­Maybe I should have been (The Observer Letters to the with Notre Dame, we similar. tives" are the institution? more subtle, like sending a Editor, January 21, 1992) by a transcend from the average to My Sugar Bowl artide was a Congressional expectations, picture of me rubbing my nose junior from Alumni llall the extraordinary. For diary of what transpired, not as well as the standards by with my ring hand. rngarding my account of my example, Fr. Malloy, like his an attempt to espouse Notre which we hold our representa­recent Sugar Bowl visit. My predecessor Fr. llesburgh, is a Dame virtues. Yes, we were tives, are extremely high. The Hegardless of whether we initial reaction was, "Blow it premier university president. sophisticated and poised in men and women whom we speak of the elitism of out of your shorts, pal." But he Lou Holtz holds the ultimate New Orleans, a city we had elect are the elite from their Congress or Notre Damn, one was correct in pointing out college coaching position. We not visited for ten years. Other region of the nation. Yet they thing is eertain. Our that I did imply that Notre arc the Harvard of the schools have poised and are merely a microcosm of our government is unique and Dame students are a part of Catholic Church in America. sophisticated alumni and fans, society. They reflect the strong because we are the our societal elite. They always With that reputation comes but state schools arc not over­interests of their United States, and the rest of have been, and they always the responsibility to be whelmed by the kinds of stu­constitueneies as well as the the world is not. Notre Dame, will be. However, elitism does Apostles, a task many fulfill dents that enroll in private philosophies of their regions. with its unique football not necessarily go hand-in­only if they can realize their schools. Can anyone deny that Unfortunately, in the eye of the television eontraet and hand with egotism or a sense potential. our conduct was any different electorate, individual Catholic character, thrives of being better than others. Someone who is not a Notre from our National Champi­representatives thrive at the beeause we arn ND, and otlwr 
I do not mean to brag when I Dame graduate once observed onship game at the Fiesta expense of the reputation of schools arc not. Those speak of the Notre Dame elite. that many ND grads will slip Bowl or our loss at Penn the institution. statements are not products of Ask our admission's director in the fact that they attended State? Congress, in many respects, a hyperaetive egotist, they are Kevin Hooney to explain the Notre Dame within the first Karen Chirico, who owns a is identical to Notre Dame. facts. Can anyone really argue unique academic standing of five minutes of every cafe in New Orleans, wrote Both are thought to have a with that? each entering freshmen dass. conversation. I took note of (Observer Letters to the Editor, large percentage of our Gary J. Caruso is a graduate Study the statistical num hers that observation and caught January 17, 1992), " ... of all country's elite. Both arc of the Unil,ersity of Notre that show the large myself several times in the aet. the visitors we have in New expected to produce leaders Dame and now works in community service So in an effort to change my Orleans, this year's Sugar for this great nation. The Washington. D.C. as a desktop participation of our students. ways, I now try a more subtle Bowl erowd was the best!" She difference between Congress publishing specialist for the Or if my critic would prefer. let approach... rub my eye with continued, "... the fans and Notre Dame is that Notre United !·)tales /louse of us compare our drunken fans my ring hand. (Many Notre displayed a wonderful sense of Dame prepares people to live Representatives. /lis column 
with any S.E.C. school's Dame graduates have also spirit, sportsmanship, and by high standards while those appears eoery other drunken fans. The fact been discovered while they remains that Notre Dame ac­rubbed their noses.) cepts a better quality person I often wonder why I am so overall than state affiliated proud of Notre Dame. I had schools. However, with that some very good years there, comes a higher standard of but I had difficult times as conduet by which we must well. College days are ones of also live. growing socially, academieally, 
Being a Domer in many re­and mentally. The maturation spects is like bf~ing part of the process overall lends itself to 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Cuban refugee describes problems caused by Castro 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is in response to the views expressed by one Professor Cutrofello in The Observer Viewpoint section. 
First, as a Cuban refugee who sought freedom in this country, and second, as a parent of a son who is a Notre Dame student, I feel eompclled to write and challenge Profe-ssor Cutrofello's views. 
One only needs to look at the number of Cubans who are now risking their lives to cross the Strait of Florida to eome to this country and to the other hundreds of thousands who have left, and realize that no matter what Castro says or his sympathizers argue, Cuba is a mess. 
When one hears first hand stories of living conditions in the island, you realize that these conditions have taken back the island at least 75 years. Not only is their agriculture now done by oxen drawn plows, and the lack of automobiles and other vehicles force people to use bicydes for transportation, but even in Havana such necessities as water and electricity are lacking as well. 
I do not know if Professor Cutrofello was ever in Cuba prior to Castro's time or after, but I can clearly remember back to what it was and can now hear of what it has be­come. Of course you cannot take away the natural beauty of the country, but when you hear of residences and buildings being kept propped up by wood beams (because otherwise the structures would fall), and these same buildings having not been painted or repaired for nearly two decades because Castro ehooses to spend his money in exporting revolutions to other countries in the world, it makes you wonder. 
Did Professor Cutrofello care to consider the following: 
If Castro was so good to his people wouldn't he have used the millions of dollars it took to host the Pan American Games and instead use these funds to help their living conditions; 
Why must the Cubans people now give up any food that they grow in their patios and gar­dens to the government or risk jail; 
That those individuals found carrying the HIV positive virus are kept at the former leper colony· outside of Havana Province "Rincon de San Lazaro". According to doctors inside Cuba, as a result of Castro sending his armies to Angola and Africa the number of carriers of this virus is a very serious health problem which Castro is keeping away from world knowledge so as not to bring attention to his subversive poliey in that part of the world. 
Relative to his argument that things are bad in Cuba because of the US government embargo, should he not ask himself how Communism can, after so many'years, fail in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe (to my knowledge there was no embargo to those countries), and further to his argument that the peasants are better off now. 

I find that am using since now is not the wealthy and the middle class who are leaving Cuba, but precisely the poor and the peasants who the Revolution was suppose to help and who after more than 30 years find themselves worst off. 
Lastly, I feel that it is ap­palling for the education pro­fession to give such an erro­neous and distorted view to a eaptive student audience as Professor Cutrofello has and I wonder if the Professor has thought where would he be for expressing similar views if he lived in Cuba and the roles were reversed. 
I can only assure him that he would not be at a University free to teach, but at some lonely solitary confine­ment cell rotting in jail for ex­pressing his views. Thank God he lives in a free country. 
I am sorry if my letter sounds a bit angry, but after so many years of living in this country I find it hard to believe that there arc still people (and a College professor no less) who don't seem to understand or care to really learn the Cuban situa­tion. 
I am, and will always feel indebted to the people of the United States who gave me, and so many others like me, an opportunity to come to this country and accomplish any goals we set for ourselves and the freedom to do it. 
It is my hope and dream that the Cuban people left in the island receive God's given strength to hold on for just a while longer, so that when Castro is finally defeated, we ean help them and our beloved Cuba become once again a free and democratic country. 
P. S. Maybe we will even invite Professor Cutrofello to visit. 
Bertha M. Ferran Portland, Ore. Jan.31,1992 

Accent 
Wednesday, February 12, 1992 
Jeanne Blasi 
From the Playpen 


Cash stations and compu­fessionals 
C 
hastity walked to the steps outside of Sacred Heart Church, stopped in front of a computerized machine bearing a striking resemblance to a Cash Station, made a sign of the cross, and 
slowly knelt down on the kneeler in front of it. Chastity has sinned and comes to make peace with herself and with God. 
While Chastity was at an off-campus party over the weekend, she accidently fell asleep on a couch (she was watching a movie, of course) and woke up at 9 a.m. the next morning. She found boys sleeping in the same room as she. 
Oh, goodness me! Chastity broke parietals, the most capital sin of all sins. The Prince of Felonies. (Yes, parietals apply off-campus.) She shamefully walked home from Campus-View and headed straight for this handy compufessional located outside of Sacred Heart Church, where we find her at the present time. 


i\fter kneeling, she carefully placed her SINS card into the slot and deposited her weekly offering: 
"Please enter your Secret Sins Number." 
Chastity entered 1-S-1-N. 
"Please enter the type of sin you have committed: press 'V' for venial, 'M' for mortal, and 'I' for indescribable." 
Chastity enters 'M' for mortal; after all, what greater sin exists except for the breakage of parietals? 
"Please enter what great body of rules you have violated." A screen pops up listing: a) du Lac, b) The New Testament, e) The Old Testament, d) Federal or State law. 
Chastity enters "a" for she has violated the most serious of the law books. 
"Please enter the letter of the sins that most closely matches yours." Another screen appears that lists, alphabetically, all of the possible du Lac offenses, from possession of a souvenir cup (du Lac, p. 33) to sexual intercourse. Chastity enters 'P' for parietal violation. 
A booming voice announces: "YOU HAVE SINNED, CHILD!" 
Then a softer, voice asks, "Are you sorry for your sins? Please make a selection." The choices that appear read, a) yes, I am heartily sorry for my offense and realize this could keep me out of law school, or b) no, I am a rebel and a mindless lawbreaker deserving expulsion. 
Chastity chooses 'a' for it was merely an accident, an extremely serious one for which she is heartily sorry. 
"Please wait while your penance is pro­cessing." 
She hears her penance slip being typed up. It reads: Please pray five rosaries, turn yourself in to student affairs, and wear a scarlet letter 'P' (for parietal violation) on all articles of clothing. 
Thank you for using this compufessional! 
Chastity takes her penance receipt and her SINS card. As she does so, a large picture of Father Malloy appears on the screen. He says the words, "Go in peace now, child. Your sins are forgiven." 
Is this scenario a prophesy of the future of the Catholic Church? In light of the growing shortage of priests, perhaps it is a viable solution years from now. 
Though most Notre Dame students are not directly affected by or do not notice this lack of priests, it is a growing problem, especially in smaller rural communities. 
It is important for church leaders and lay persons to scrutinize this problem and explore other viable solutions to the "compufessional." 
In decades to come, married and/or women priests may be a far better solution to this problem than compufessionals. 
Jeanne Blasi is Assistant Production Manager 
ofThe Observer. Her columns appear every 
third Wednesday in Accent. 
page 9 


' The Observer/ Sean Farnan "The Freshman Four," four one-act plays performed by freshmen only, will be playing tonight at 7 p.m. in Theodore's. 



e ew t e res 




Four one-act plays directed by and starring freshmen will be performed tonight 
The Observer/ Sean Farnan 

By JOHN O'BRIEN 
Accent Editor 
Tonight, a large group of fresh­men will invade Theodore's. 
This may not come as a surprise to most students, but the reason why the freshmen are there might surprise a few. 
They won't be there to dance-they'll be there to act. 
The Freshman Year of Studies is presenting "The Freshmen Four," four one-act plays 
directed by  and  starring  
freshmen,  at  7  p.m.  in  
Theodore's.  

In its second year, "The Fresh­men Four" is the brainchild of Michelle Martin, an advisor in the Freshmen Year of Studies. 
Martin decided to start "The Freshmen Four" last year to get freshmen involved in plays at Notre Dame. Because freshmen cannot declare a major in Communication and Theater, it is often hard for them to be cast for roles for which they try out, Martin said. 
"I wanted to start a tradition where freshmen can get experience and meet others with like interests," Martin said. 
Cast members rehearse the one-act play, "Murder Well Rehearsed." 
This year, Martin is taking a less active role in the production of the plays. 
"My part has been more of the logistical roles-it's really the student's thing," she said. 
Subtitled "For Freshmen... By Freshmen," the production is in­deed that. The four plays star a total of 45 freshmen actors and are directed by four freshmen. The production is entirely student-run. 
The chief director of the play is freshmen Jen Andre, who is directing the play "Juvie," a drama by Jerome McDonough about 11 juvenile delinquents in a detention center. 
This year's production has sparked great interest in the the­ater among those participating, said Andre, who directed one play and acted in several others while in high school. 
"It's confirmed for me that I want to keep directing if I can," she said, adding that she plans to major in Communication and Theater at Notre Dame. 
Freshmen Sean McKenna, Tony Leonardo and Colleen Rooney will also take the director's chair at some point 
tonight. McKenna will direct "Murder Well-Rehearsed," a whodunit, while Rooney will direct "Baby," a "Look Who's Talking" -esque comedy about an infant's view of the world. 
Leonardo is making his directorial debut with '"Dentity Crisis," a contemporary comedy written by Christopher Durang. 
His play is "difficult to describe," Leonardo said. "It's a little off-the-wall and a little insane, but it's got a point in all of its ridiculousness." 
While these students are still amateur directors, giving more control to the students this year hasn't hurt the quality of the production, Martin said. 
"I've been really pleased with the way things turned out this year, the students have put in thousands of hours of work on this," she said. 
Tickets for "The Freshmen Four" are available for $2 at the Freshmen Learning Resource Center in Brownson Hall. It is doubtful they will be available at the door, Martin said. 
"I think it's going to sell out," she said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next·day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
GOLB! Attention you sacks in 915-916 DRIVING TO NYC FOR SPRING Waking Nose, The Lizard King lives on I Down with NOW WE'LL GET ALL OF OUR Grace:
NOTICES BREAK? Have room for two NO the Crustaceans! SONG REQUESTS PLAYED! Tonight will mark your downfall at ladies willing to pay for gas? Call I am the culprit. the hands of two guys from 3rd floor x2672 or x2648 If you have had an abortion and Flanner. You may be tough, but 
USED TEXTBOOKS! Leeks in the Night FAST EASY INCOME! would be willing to help me with an we're BAD. That Genuine Draft is Buy & Sell Books Earn 1DO's Weeekly Stuffing article. Please call Anna (284-going to taste great. especially in Pandora's Books Need a ride to D.C. Met. area envelopes.-Send self-addressed 5474). Confidentiality guaranteed. bottles. GOOD LUCK GUYS!!!!! 3 blks. from NO Will Split gas & tolls BOSKI is too SEXY for his stamped envelope to: Extra income! 233-2342/10-5:30 M-Sun Call Bill at x4141 Lizard King !I! P.O. Box 811699 Chicago, IL Brendan, 
60681-1699 In response to your request, my To Mrs. Rene Ferran: 
name is Bertha and my We at the Observer hope that you Multimedia Demo and DOS User's For Rent SMEGMO ERGO SUM. measurements are 42, 44, 48. enjoy your visit here at Notre Dame. Group Meeting SPRING BREAK '92. Daytona, Can't wait to meet you. We hope that boyfriend of yours Thurs. Feb. 13 7:00pm $149, Cancun $489. Bahamas Bertha (my friends call me paid for all the long-distance phone G015 Computer -Math Build. FOR RENT: 3 BD HOUSE 1 BTH MIND SIROTILC SHALL RISE $449 Tami) Wells calls to the Observer. He says he's 
TRILEVEL ON 5 ACRES. 10 MIN. ABOVE THE REST BECAUSE WE Best prices & accommodations looking forwarto sharing, no make 
FROM CAMPUS $500.00 MO. 1ST ARE KING. guaranteed!!! 1 (BOO) 724-1555 or Mel, Stink, and Jenny-that showing you to all of us, and TYPING AVAILABLE LAST + SEC. 684-3778. 236-5825 (24 hrs.) spending quality time with you. 287-4082. Congratulations on getting real Everyone wants to know exactly 
SOMEBODY WANTS FLOWERS lives. how far Rene will go. Happy 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY FROM YOU !I! Just because They don't recognize I'm so proud of you. We'll celebrate Valentine's Day, and remember. DU AVOID THE RUSH & LONG, LONG 219-291-7153. Us doesn't mean you don't exist. Sunday. LAC exists off-campus as well, so LINES. WHO DO YOU WANT FLOWERS You're not alone. Love-no hanky-panky. 
t 
SUBMIT YOUR VALENTINE OR BALLOONS FROM?? K-Signed, 
PERSONALS TODAY. NEED A COMFORTABLE PLACE GL../SMC, Box 194, Notre Dame, Rene Ferran wannabes STOP IN THE OBSERVER OFFICE FOR PARENTS TO STAY FOR GET GUSHY-IT'S THAT GROSS IN 46556 I'm still too sexy for Waylon and Pushing personals to their ANYTIME BETWEEN UPCOMING WEEK-ENDS? Call VALENTINE TIME OF YEAR Willie and the Boys! limits.
•t 
B AM -3:30 PM DAILY. Home B&B 291-0535. Approved by We're so far OUT OF IN B&B Assoc. Come to Irish Gardens (base-ment EVERYTHING YOU KNOW IS Love, BOUNDS we may never get back of LaFortune).LAST DAY FOR WRONG!!!!!!!!!!IIIIII!!!!!!!IIIffll!!!!l!ll Garth PS: The poll sucks. 
ANNUAL PHON-A-THON VALENTINE ORDERS IS benefits Woman's Care Center 6-7 BEDROOM HOME.SECURITY WEDNESDAY the 12th!lll Come see big, burly German men Job Hunting Sucks!!!!!!! Katy is the world's greatest FEBRUARY 10-13 and ALARM. FURNISHED .WALK TO at the Cavanaugh Hall Play. roommate, so everybody please be FEBRUARY 17-20 from CAMPUS.FOR 1992-93.272-6306 February 27, 28, and 29 nice to her for another few days 
6 to 9 pm each night. LAST CHANCE Washington Hall B p.m. H until JPW is finally over!!!! Development Office in the ROOM TO RENT. LAST CHANCE Donations accepted for the Andy A -the other evil one Admin. Bldg USE OF ALL LAST CHANCE Sowder Scholarship fund p if interested, call Michelle at UTILITIES/FACILITIES. CLOSE TO Today is the last day to order p Danny, 
255-4595 CAMPUS. NICE NEIGHBORHOOD Valentine Day deliveries from Irish y Forget it. You cannot redeem & HOME. $225/MO. PAUL 232-Gardens! Hurry Up!!!!!!!! N.D. Best Buddies T-shirts!! yourself and that girlis a wench. 2794. Open 12:30-5:30 $10 at NOH & SOH v Kim
LOST/FOUND LAST CHANCE 2/11-2113 (Tue-Thu) A Student rental: LAST CHANCE Great Valentine's Day gift!!!! L BEN, THE PHILO MAJOR, IS SO 4 bedroom and loft. E HOT HE CAN FRY AN EGG ON 
Found: Men's watch in the Final Available Aug. 92 232-4964 CREIGHTON N HIS CHEST. Exam room for Todd Whitmore's Lucas Fairborn, CREIGHTON T War, Law, and Ethics during Fall Bed & Breakfast for N.D./ St. Mary's CREIGHTON I JEFF, Exam Week. families. 2 bedrooms, private bath. Hal Hal hahahahahahah!!l!ll!l! CREIGHTON N I burn for you. You are all I can Inquire at Lost and Found in Ten minutes from campus. Safest CREIGHTON E think about... well, you and salami. Hesburgh Library. neighborhood in area 234-2626. with love, Love, 
Pooh Bear. how sweet are my days s Cheryl your mother with you!! Love, LOST: your honeypot D Did you ever get your 
FOR SALE 

IRISH GOLD RING IN THE A cheeseburger, LIZA? HUDDLE. PLEASE CALL Alicia, AND FROM THE PUTRID LOINS y CLAUDINE IN DELl AT CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED OF DR. SMEGMA CAME Joe. 239-5044. 89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50, You will pay for your insolent CONCUPISCENCE As we approach our fourth 
87 MERCEDES $100, 65 remarks very soon... INCARNATE:LORD LUSTER Bonch,ABBS,and to the rest of the Valentine's Day together, I can't wait MUSTANG $50. Choose from KREGE. DR. SMEGMA SMILED boyz in Dillon. for the day we are married. LOST: thousands starting $25. FREE 24 AND SAID, Good luck on your exams this Remember how we met at the 
Hour Recording Reveals Details GOING TO U of I, CHAMPAIGN "TRULY THIS IS FLESH OF MY week. Graffiti Dance freshman year and Pair of round-frame. prescription 801-379-2929 Copyright# this weekend? We need a FLESH,SMEGMA OF MY Love. you wrote that obscene message sunglasses-I can't ski/see without tN11KJC ride; can help with gas! Call SMEGMA." Beth and D D on my unmentionables? Now that them!I Elizabeth X3885 or Karen X2891 you've given me the diamond, I'm Please call x4980 STOP these vicious attacks on MARTHA, ready to do them all!! 

TICKETS 

Garth Brooks. Love. 
That's the way it goes. I guess ... c Tami LOST -black Sharp calculator in To da men of Da Projects: H Library auditorium on 2!7 Need 1 NO/UCLA thanks for the wicked sheist-kickin' E call x1621 ticket Kelly .... party. Bottled beer. fine music, and E Are you cryin', Iovin' or leavin'? 
Judy 239-6515 good friends-what more could a R 
beaver ask for? Love, DAAAAAA LOST: FRESHWATER PEARL & Waking Nose, Book in the Head, BEAVS "I almost peed all over myself when GOLD BEAD BRACELET ON 2/7. NEED 3 UCLA TIX CALL BLAIR and Two Winds, paid for by SoA u I heard that oneI" CALL ANNE 234-1752. 277-2695 p 
May your horses run fast to the Sara, 
Help I I need 3 tix for UCLA. buffalo, we must smoke the peace D. Danger Cuddlebunny Pilate, A When I first saw you last year in REWARDIII REWARD!!! Call DiAnne 239-8202 pipe. N North Dining Hall. I knew you were REWARD!!! from95 Can we cuddle and be high with D going to be someone special, now I 
Leeks in the Night. each other? want to know ...... .Will you be my Lost: Gold chain with half HELPII Need 4 UCLA G wife? heart pendant. 1/27 between B-Ball Tixsl! gumbo! E I Love You, SOH and JACC. Mimi 284-5158 ROSEMARY IS STRESSED!!!!--T Paul VERY SENTIMENTAL!!I!!!I!!!! Call Ryan x1134. NO SIR! RELAX, KIDDO. ONLY 3 while you're FISH IN' IN THE DARK, w To the Tuesday Night LaFortune 
PERSONAL 
DAYS UNTIL THE WEEKEND. in MUDDY WATER, I'LL BE GONE. E Manager guy, LOST! I AT THE SOPHMORE AND VALENTINE'S DAY. (What a L Are you enjoying this? Next time FORMAL BLACK BRAEFER coat consolation.) You'll make it. I'll sing L don1 make fun of us, or we'll really with the name Diggy on the to ya-YOU KNOW WHO. Trained masseuse offering services. attack your reputation. nametag. Please call Becky at 284-INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Steve x2354 s 4107. 0 
Good rates. Save Money. Call me COLLEEN NEVIN 0 
for a quote 9:30-6:00, MOLLY & JACKIE N LOST: 2/B Blue NO 10 pouch with 289-1993. Office near campus. turns 21 today!! LOVE 3A Fla driver license. ID. Detex. and Just want to tell you guys to keys. If found, PLEASE call Lynn We are celebrating at BASIX take it easy at BAS IX tonight.(NOT) Carta Esmay, (my little hunk of x1260. SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER tonight. If you know this Farley Happy early V-Day. chocolate love), 
VACATIONS! chikka come buy her a shot! It will The BIG C-Jamaica, Bahamas including be a night to remember (or forget, Yeah, sure, I think we should go to 
Wanted airfare, great hotel, and much more as the Chicago and put ourselves just a from only $599. Buy from the #1 case may be ... ) SHANNON little further into debt. name you trust for quality vacations. 
ND-SMC couple '81 offering FREE FOUR SEASONS Love Ya Coli -Mix Thanks for a great weekend in Liz ROOM AND BOARD for part-time 1-800-331-3136. Chicago. I hope we get to spend P.S. How are those Butt-Roots summer help w1th toddlers. some time on V-Day. Happy pre­doing? Barrington. IL area. Call 708-428-To My Brown Eyed Girl: I hope to Valentine Day. 1051. SPRING BREAK TO FLORIDA see a two-dimple smile the whole C-Cap'N Cork 
BEACHES. FUN IN THE SUN, weekend. Looking forward to Cap 'N Cork 
Friday. -Soup Cap 'N Cork Need ride toLl or Area for S.B.Can 4/RM. prices. Daytona $149, It is a DAMN shame that you leave 3/6. Anne x2580 Panama City $139 Kitch, Wtrfrt & 
Trans Available. Call CMI at 1-800-hey nil have (had) more than one THEVALENTINE'S DAYREQUEST 
423-5264. LIST FROM HELL: $40,000/YR! READ BOOKS and SWEETIE because I would have TV Scripts. Fill out simple STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA "Love Stinks"-J. Geils Band "like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun. IT'S NOT TOO EARLY TO SUBMIT Info on semester, year, graduate, though about you yesterday "Used to Love her"-Guns 'n' Roses relaxing at home. beach. vacations. YOUR VALENTINE PERSONALS. summer and internship programs in "Bad Obsession"-G'n" R (again) Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 COME IN ANYTIME DAILY Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and too! LOVE, me "I doni' believe in love"­

HILTON HEAD ISLAND ·~,Iff!
Hour Recording 801-379-2925 BEFORE 3:30 PM AND AVOID Melbourne. Programs start at Queensyrche 
IIUSTANC ISLAND I

Copyright #IN11 KEB THE LAST MINUTE LINES. $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. "Domercius"-of or having to do with "U Stink but I Luv You"-Billy and the 
PO/lT AllANSAS

Domerlike behovior.(l'm talking Boingers about those loaded with "Dead Flowers"-Rolling Stones YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK BUY SPRING BREAK TRIPS NOW SUMMER JOBS testosterone) Meaning very pig­"I doni' Care anymore"-Phil Collins 
11th Annual TO LIVE I DO IT RIGHT! SPRING headed or irresponsible crotch 
Celebration! 

BREAK IN JAMAICAICANCUN. to Bahamas, S. Padre. Cancun. ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS behavior. HAve any suggestions for more FROM $4291 INCLUDES HOTEL. Panama City, or Jamiaca PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS Derivation: Fromthe NO meaning requests? Call Paul or Joe at 1208. AIR, TRANSFERS. From LISA at x4667. ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR No D-. uh, BALLS SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-Trips are selling FAST! LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-786­7710. Don't be left out II• 8373 Hi Toddles HAPPY HEARTBREAKING! 
TOll FlEE INFORMATION & RESHVATIOIIIS 
t·BOO·J2t·59tl 

~~--~ 
~=---~ 

Wednesday, February 12, 1992 
Wessel assigri'~ato Iinebackers.... fot.... ·1:9 
The Observer 

Racism 
continued from page 16 
and the judge said that it was a total mix-up in wording...the whole thing was screwed up. So when they did the records check it appears as a felony. So they [the University] accused me of falsifying my application." 
"I was never, ever charged with robbery," Anderson said. 
Anderson said Cincinnati offi­cials told him that there was another man with the same name in the city, and that there probably was a mistake made on Anderson's record. He claims he was advised to have an expungment hearing in front of a judge, which he said he scheduled for April 26,1991. 
"I investigated it, I had a lawyer investigate it. I have since then had the whole thing expunged." 
Regardless of the confusion surrounding his application, Anderson was still dismissed from his coaching position. 
"He was in a volunteer posi-
SPORTS BRIEFS 
tion, it was not paid, and he was treated differently than any salaried coach," O'Leary said. 
"I have no comment on that," said Rosenthal. "He did not work for the athletic depart­ment. Club teams report to NVA, which is now RecSports. He was not dismissed as an employee." 
Kelly, whose jurisdiction in­cludes club sports, refused to comment on the specific reason for Anderson's dismissal. 
"I don't really have a com­ment," said Kelly. "We looked into his application last year and there seemed to be some confusion. We mentioned to Bill until those things were taken care of we would have to hold off. We got another coach, Steve Anderson, and there were some disagreements between him and the players. But we have no comment on that. 
"There were no complaints about Bill by the players to my knowledge," Kelly added. 
"I played under Bill Anderson for a whole year, and he got 
page 11 

along really well with everyone on the team," stated one men's volleyball player who spoke un­der condition of anonymity. "There were never any conflicts with him, all the players re­spected him and there were never any words behind his back. 
"To be honest, we're realizing now that he was dedicated to the team. He was coaching the St. Joseph's High School girls' team at the time. The biggest thing was that he put forth the effort and dedication. He seemed to get along really well with the coaches of the teams we played. We're just confused about it because we really haven't been informed about what really went on." 
Oddly enough, Anderson had led the Irish club to the NCAA national tournament in 1990-the first Notre Dame appearance in nine years. Under his tutelage the Notre Dame men's club was Northern conference champion from 1986-89, with Anderson being named Midwest Intercollegiate Volleyball Association coach of the year in 1986 and 1987. 
Anderson said he also served as Notre Dame assistant women's volleyball coach under Art Lambert from August 1985 through 1986. In 1988, he re­ceived an NAACP Image Award. He also received the Jesse Owens leadership award in 1985. 
Anderson is currently the head girls' volleyball coach at Niles High School in Niles, Mich. He coached the St. Joseph's High School girls' team from 1988 to 1991, and LaSalle High School's girls' team from 1987 to 1988. 
Under Anderson, LaSalle won its first sectional championship appearance in 15 years (1987), while he led St. Joseph to the sectional championship in 1988 and 1989. 
Anderson was an All-Ameri­
can at the University of Cincin­
nati in 1982 and a member of 
the junior national volleyball 
team in 1982-83. He trans­
ferred and graduated from In­
diana University-Purdue Uni­
versity Fort Wayne (IPFW) with 
a B.A. in Law Administration 
and an associate degree in 
Criminal Justice. 




Dart Tournament Tonight at C)s Begins at 7:00 Teams of two I $2.00 per team Prizes for winning team Food and drink specials Darts all night 
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, February 12, 1992 
Mosley named Irish running backs coach 
Special to The Observer 
Earle Mosley has joined Lou Holtz's Notre Dame football staff as running backs coach following tenures as an assistant coach at Temple, Northwestern and Hutgers. 
Mosley replaces Tom Beck, who coached the Irish running backs for a single season in 1991 before resigning last month to become offensive coordinator at Illinois. 
Mosley spent the last four seasons (1988-91) at Temple under head coach Jerry Berndt. The Lansdowne, Pa., native served the four previous seasons (1984-87) as an assistant at Northwestern-the first two under Dennis Green, now the NFL Minnesota Vikings head coach, and the last two under Francis Peay, a 



Sloppy 
continued from page 16 
LaPhonso Ellis was then put at a place where he had strug­gled recently. Ellis had two 


DePaul 
continued from page 16 
perfect free throw shooting kept Notre Dame close in the early part of the first half. Marciniak and Nowlin scored with the help of Washington while sophomore Kara Leary and llaysbert made the Blue Demons regret fouling them. Things went sour for the Irish in the later part of the second half as DePaul outscored the Irish 24 to 10. 
"I thought we had a chance," said Nowlin, "but we made some mistakes. We had some breakdowns on offense and de­fense and we let it get away." 
Notre Dame has been exper­imenting with new combina­tions of starters in recent games in an effort to find a winning chemistry and to work around recent injuries. Last night, the starting five included Leary and Marciniak at guard, freshman Letitia Bowen and Haybert at forward, and Nowlin at center. Washington injured her knee in the game against Xavier and was supposed to stay on the sidelines for at least a week, but she played 18 former Irish assistant himself. lie coached four seasons as an assistant at Hutgers from 1980-83. 

Mosley has coached six players who have gone on to the National Football League-Deron Cherry (five­time all-pro with Kansas City chiefs) and Kenny Smith (Detroit Lions) in 1980 at Rutgers, Carl Howard (Dallas cowboys and New York Jets) in 1984 at Rutgers, Kevin Brown (Los Angeles Rams) in 1985 at Northwestern, and Mike Constantatos (Philadelphia Eagles) and Kenyatta Rush (Phoenix Cardinals) in 1990 at Temple. 
A 1973 graduate of West Chester State with a degree in health and physical education, Mosley spent the 1979 campaign on the staff of his 
chances at the free throw line to increase 63-60 lead with eight seconds in the game. Ellis missed the first free throw long, and Irish fans held their breath. The next shot, however, found net and sealed the game. A desperation three pointer fell 
minutes in last night's game. 
"Coach wanted me to play to give Kara (Leary) and Michelle (Marciniak) some rest. Turns out I needed to play more than that," said Washington. 
The first half provided some hope for the Irish as Notre Dame led for the almost the en­tire half and matched DePaul shot for shot. Towards the end of the half, Notre Dame pulled ahead and at one point held a 25-16 lead on a Marciniak three-pointer and tough play alma mater. He previously spent six years on the staff at Chester High School in Chester, Pa., the last four as head football coach while also assisting in track and wrestling. he coached Chester to the 1978 Delaware Valley Class A title, it first in 42 seasons. 
Mosley is close to finishing requirements for his master's degree in education at West Chester State-and he took classes in Temple's graduate sports administration program. 
A graduate of Lansdowne­Aldan High School in Lansdowne, Pa., Mosley earned three letters as a defensive back at West Chester State, captaining the team as a senior in 1972. 
for Stanford, but time ran out. 
"The game wasn't sealed until Phons made the second free throw," said MacLeod. "That was a big free throw, because he had been struggling. He re­ally showed me something there." 
under the hoop from Nowlin. 

The Blue Demons climbed back.~..-....----------~~;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;=:;;;;~
with consistent shooting and Irish turnovers in the final minutes of the first half. 
The loss dropped the Irish to 6-14 and extended Notre Dame's losing streak to three games. Nonetheless, the team isn't ready to give up on the season. 
"It's frustrating (to lose) right now, but we still have the conference tournament ahead and that's not out of reach yet," said Nowlin. 

IllAl.UM~N~I=====3 



~CLUB 
STODENT MANAGER APPUCATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM UP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPUCATION DEADUNE IS FEBRUARY 21, 1992 
Upset 
continued from page 16 
Keefe still managed to score 17 points and grab nine rebounds. However, these numbers are well below his season stats, 
24.9 ppg and 12.9 rpg. 
"There were a couple times when I couldn't stop him from getting the ball because I got into some foul trouble. When that happened, 1 wanted to play tough defense after he caught the ball," Ellis said. 
Even when he got the ball in the half-court set, the baskets did not come easily. Keefe had to beat the double team all night. 
"We wanted to do to him tonight what other teams do to me every night," Ellis com­mented after the game. 
Though the Irish defense did a good job on Keefe, MacLeod was still impressed by his abil­ity. 
"He moves like a Jot of good post men. He moves so quickly and is so mobile. He's got great speed, and he got great ability with the ball to put it on the floor," he said. "We wanted to double team him, but there were times when he was gone before we could get our defend­
ers in." 
In addition to keeping Keefe from dominating the game, the Irish also got more than the usual three players, Elmer Bennett, Daimon Sweet and Ellis, involved in the offense. Billy Taylor and Jon Hoss each chipped in six points, and Tower took five shots, but only scored two points. 
"Every game !Coach MacLeod! says if the shots arc there, he wants me to take them. Tonight, with the plays we were running, I was getting the open shots," Taylor said. 
"Stanford did a great job on Phonz early, so we tried to get Billy Taylor going. lie was three for six !from the noorl and that is encouraging." MacLeod commented. "However, we would like to get to the point where we can have five or six guys in double figures. If we can do that, our half-court game will start to look a lot better." 
Please Recycle This Newspaper 



DIAL 27-ROSES 
FOR VALENTINE FLOWERS-CUT ROSES-BONSAI PLANTS 
ROSELAND FRUIT AND GARDEN CENTER-(ACROSS FROM RANDAllS INN) 
27-ROSES OR 277-6737 OR 272-7760 
YOU ARE OFFERID A $2.00 DISCOUNT ON THE PURCHASE OF A DOZEN ROSFS, IF AND ONLY IF, WHEN YOU ORDER YOUR ROSFS YOU TEU US HOW MANY LEITERS ARE IN THE PHRASE, '1'HE FlGH'fiNG IRISH OF NOTRE DAME"! 
VISA WE DELIVER 
., 
~ 
~ ~'b-., 

~· ~~ 
~ ~~ "\:~~}I ~~e ~'>~, 

~ IM~a.-tr.......,.J,a·
.....,.........,..., 
"SING-A-LONG"
-
Ramada Inn -South Bend --!}7 
TONIGHT••_ YOU ARE THE STARir 

llUCI( o :;tHII o .1/11./ o tiU!;I'II. o Ill W Mt1:;11: o :ii/IJW lll/11 :; o SDlJNIJIIlllt:l<!; • ClASSII:/11. • IIIII' • II·JSI'IIl/IIIUII/\1 o t:tJMIIlY o EXI:IICI!ii"MliS/1: • CIIIIIJIIFN'S • llll.II:S o CUIH~III'o •l'tll' •1M;\' l.ISIENII·Ili • CllMI·IlY • llEGUAr • IMI'OiliS • 111111 Iiiii\';:; • 111".1\VY Ml:l/11. • IHICI< • :;tilll • .1/17.1. • tillSI'I:I o I~EWMlJ!ilt: • !illtiW 1111~1 :; o SUUNIIIII/It:KS • t:lASSit:/IL o IIIII' o INSI'Ifi/IIION/11 o t·:llMI IJY • EXEI1CISE MUSIC • CIIII.UI1EN"S • BLUES • COIIN111Y • 1'01' • [/I!>Y liSirNir-JG • COMFDY • llEGG/IF • IMI'OilTS • 10111\:;;, • llr/IVY ME l/11. • llOCK • SOUl. • .Ifill • tlOS ''IIUW llJNI:S • SOUNIJIIIIICKS • F.XEilCISE MUSIC • IISir:NIIIG • Mr 11\L • SOUND I 
ES • lilY • POP • EASY · • IMPORTS • BLUEGil/ISS • liE/IVY UL • JAZZ • GOSPEL • NEW MUSIC • SIIOW JUNES 

• ClASSICAL • 11/IP • INSPIIli\TION/IL • COMEDY • EXEilCISE MUSIC • CffllOilEN'S • BLUES • CO UN lilY • POP • EASY LISTENING • COMEDY • llEGG/IE • IMPOnTS • BLUEGili\SS o liE/IVY MET/II. • llOCK • SOUL • JAZZ, • GOSPEL • NEW MUSIC • SIIOW 1UNES 
• 
SOUNDTn/ICKS • ClASSICAL • ll/IP • INSPin/ITION/IL o COMEDY ; EXEilCISE MUSIC • CHILDREN'S • BLUES • COUNIIlY • POP o EASY LISTENING • COMEDY • llEGGAE• IMPORTS • BLUEGil/ISS o liE/IVY MET/II. • llOCK • SOUl. • JAZZ • GOSPEL • NEW MUSIC • Sl lOW 1UNES 

• 
SOUNDfll/ICKS • ClASSICAl. • ll/IP • INSPIIlATION/IL o COMEDY o EXEflCISE MUSIC • CIIILDilEN"S • BLUES • COUNTilY • POP o EASY USlENIIJG • COMEDY • llEGG/IE • IMPOillS • Ill UEGili\SS • II!: /IvY METAL • HOCK • SOUl. • JJ\ZZ • GOSPEL • NEW MUSIC • SIIUW IUNFS 




Heaven & Earth 
Flowers, Balloons, Plants 
VALENTINE'S DAY SPECIAL 
1 Dozen Carnations in a Vase with a Mylar Balloon $20.00 
Across from Bob 
Evans on 31 North

WEDEUVER 273-2212 
Wednesday, February 12, 1992 The Observer page 13 
Tyson returns to courthouse 
Evaluations of Tyson's 
Convicted of rape, fighter could face 60 years in prison 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP)-Boxer Mike Tyson returned to the courthouse today a convicted rapist, awaiting a routine probation meeting after being found guilty of attacking a Miss America Contestant he lured to his hotel room. 
The conviction late Monday was Tyson's darkest moment in a troubled history with women, and it threatened to end the rags-to-riches career of the youngest heavyweight champion ever. 
Tyson arrived at the City­County Building about 10:50 
a.m. EST-about 12 hours after the verdict was delivered-and was greeted by the crush of reporters and photographers, as well as about 40 supporters who shouted "Hang in there, Mike!" and "Don't worry about it, Mike!" He had a serious look on his face and did not acknowledge the show of support. 
He and two of his attorneys walked briskly into the building and up the stairs that lead to the probation offices for a meeting that is standard procedure for anyone convicted of a felony. 
During the interview, Tyson was to be asked about his criminal and social history so that an evaluation could be prepared for the court, said a probation department recep­tionist who refused to give her name. 
The 25-year-old boxer could get up to 60 years in prison at sentencing March 6. But based on average sentences given in similar cases in Indiana, he probably will receive between seven and 11 years said Deputy Prosecutor Barbara Trathen. 

Mike Tyson 
Tyson remained free on $30.000 bail. 
"We've seen so many times recently that it doesn't matter what a superstar does-it s OK," prosecutor Greg Garrison said after Monday night's verdict. "He can brag about it in his books, he can demonstrate it in the public eye, and as long as it suits him, it s all right. 
"And I think tonight, one time anyway, this kind of behavior's not been tolerated.' 
Tyson stared straight ahead. He showed little emotion as the verdict was read. Guilty on one count of rape and two counts of criminal deviate conduct. He had no comment as he left the courtroom. 
Asked what his most effective evidence was, Garrison said, "That beautiful 18-year-old kid with a pure heart. She's a young person with a lot of courage." 
Tyson's defense-that he was a crude womanizer whose accuser knew from the start that he wanted sex, and consented-didn't stand up to the victim's story and the physical evidence, jurors said. 
'The accusing witness made a very convincing case. We looked at not only a moment in the bedroom but a chain of events that evening," said the jury's foreman, a 37-year-old IBM marketing representative and ex-Marine. "It was an accumulation of evidence," said the foreman, who refused to give his name. 

The victim wasn't in court when the verdicts were read. Trathen said the woman felt "just a sense of 'It's finished,' relief." 
Tyson was scheduled to challenge Evander Holyfield in a bid to regain the title last November -after being indicted-but that bout was canceled when Tyson injured a rib. It was not rescheduled when the trial began Jan. 27. 
Nothing in boxing regulations would automatically bar Tyson from fighting while free on appeal, but boxing's governing bodies and state boxing commissions could refuse to sanction a match. And no promoter would undertake such a fight under those circumstances. 
Tyson's accuser testified that he had promised to take her sightseeing but instead went to his hotel on the pretext of making a phone call, pinned her to his bed, stripped her, raped her and laughed while she cried in pain and begged him to stop. 
Other evidence included testimony from an emergency room doctor who said the woman suffered mJuries consistent with rape, and a chauffeur who said the woman appeared shaken when she emerged from Tyson's hotel July 19. 
impact on boxing vary 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Life after Tyson. 
That's what the world of boxing faces in the wake of former heavyweight champion Mike Tyson's conviction Monday night on a charge of rape and two charges of deviate sexual conduct. 
"It means absolutely nothing to boxing," said Bob Arum, an arch-rival to promoter Don King, who is Tyson's promoter. "In some way it helps boxing because it eliminates someone who is perceived to be a bad apple in the mix." 
That's not how Seth Abraham sees it. 
Abraham is president of Time-Warner Sports, and Time-Warner is the parent company of HBO, which pre­sents cable television boxing shows, and of TVKO, which presents pay-per-view boxing telecasts. 
TVKO was set to telecast Evander Holyfield's defense against Tyson Nov. 8, which was canceled when Tyson suffered a rib injury while training in October. 
That fight was expected to gross more than $100 million. 
"The most profound effect, obviously, is on the heavyweight championship, and that connects with the other divisions," Abraham said. "As the heavyweight division goes, so goes boxing." 
The sport, however, mirrors the people who make a living from boxing. It is a survivor. 
Also, when the heavyweight division is in decline, smaller fighters come to the fore. 
"Other divisions got attention when Muhammad Ali was out (form 1967 to 1970 because of his conviction for refusing in­duction into military service)," Abraham said. 
It was smaller fighters who starred between the title loss of Jack Johnson in 1915 and the championship win of Jack Dempsey in 1919, from the retirement of Dempsey in 1928 until the rise of Joe Louis in 1936, and from the retirement of Louis in 1949 until the rise of Rocky Marciano in 1951. 
"There's enough big fights," Arum said. "George Foreman-Holyfield (in a rematch) is big enough," Arum said. "There will be more big combinations in the years ahead." 
There, however, will be no single attraction like Tyson, a major draw no matter the caliber of the opponent. 
"He is a legitimate cash register,"Abraham said. 
Without Tyson, there is not a real leader in the heavyweight division, which badly lacks depth. 
"It is open season without Tyson," said 42-year-old Larry Holmes, a former champion, who admittedly wants no more to do with Tyson, who knocked him out in 1988. 
Holmes, however, would like a title shot against anybody else. And Holmes and the 43-year-old Foreman are attractive, especially against one another, to the nostalgia crowd. 

~_Q~ 
Applications are now being accepted for the following paid positions: 
News Editor 
•Applicants 
should have news writing and editing experience 

•Responsible 
for managing assisting editors and reporters 

•Responsible 
for content and accuracy of daily News section 


Viewpoint Editor 
•Applicants 
should have editorial and fact-checking experience 

•Responsible 
for letters to the editor and Viewpoint columns 

•Responsible 
for managing assisting editors and columnists 


Sports Editor 
•Applicants 
should have sports writing and editing experience 

•Responsible 
for managing assisting editors and reporters 

•Responsible 
for daily Sports section, generating special sections and travel accommodations for road games 


Accent Editor 
•Applicants 
should have features writing and editing experience 

•Responsible 
for assisting editors, reporters and columnists 

•Responsible 
for daily Accent section, generating story ideas, overseeing ETC. and other special issue sections 


Photo Editor 
•Applicants 
should have photography and developing experience 

•Responsible 
for coordinating photographers and lab technicians 

•Must 
work closely with department editors in assigning photos 


Saint Mary's Editor 
•Responsible 
for managing Saint Mary's department editors and coordinating efforts with Notre Dame staff 

•Responsible 
for generating story ideas on Saint Mary's campus 

•Responsible 
for Observer office on Saint Mary's campus 


Advertising Manager 

•Applicants 
should be Business majors with an interest in management, advertising and/or sales 

•Responsible 
for managing advertising representatives and clerks, seeking and generating advertising revenue 


Ad Design Manager 

•Applicants 
should be management-oriented, familiar with Macintosh MacDraw and computer-assisted design 

•Responsible 
for design and layout of advertisements 

•Must 
work closely with design staff and Advertising Manager 


Production Manager 

•Applicants 
should have newspaper production experience, especially Macintosh QuarkXPress 3.0, design and layout 

•Responsible 
for night production editors and design staff 

•Work 
closely with department editors on design and layout 


Systems Manager 

•Responsible 
for maintaining and updating service of Macintosh network and Linotronic processing system 

•Responsible 
for managing typesetting department 

•Responsible 
for training Observer staff on use of entire system 


Observer Typesetting Director 
•Knowledge 
of Macintosh and IBM desktop publishing necessary 

•Responsible 
for managing typesetting business, soliciting revenue and completing assignments for clients in the community 


Controller 

•Applicant 
must be a junior accounting major 

•Responsible 
for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties 


To apply, submit a three-page personal statement and resume to Monica Yant by 5 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 12. For more information or further job descriptions, call The Observer, 239-5303. 
-~ 
_________________________________________________________________________________________  
St:!8f .'::.f '{l6U1•• :i ,'(!:;.  :1  
page 14  The Observer  Wednesday, February 12, 1992  





Taylor follows his father's lead 

Irish freshman is second-generation basketball player 
By JIM VOGL Sports Writer 
Although a little shorter and slimmer, Notre Dame freshman Billy Taylor seems to be filling his father Dennis' shoes just fine. 
Dennis Taylor was a 6-foot-7 forward/center for Northern Illinois in 1969-70 and 1970-71. He averaged 8.4 points and 8.9 rebounds as a junior, 6. 9 points and 8.4 rebounds as a senior. 
Billy Taylor is a 6-5 small forward who averages 6.1 points and 3 boards per game as a freshman starter for the 7­11 Fighting Irish. 
"My father's had a lot of in­fluence on my game. We've been playing together since he got me started playing," said 

,. Taylor, who considers his fa­ther's strength-rebounding-to be his own main weakness. "lie has a stronger build. When he played, he was a good jumper, a good rebounder," said Taylor, who has much bigger, stronger, and quicker competition than in the days of his father. But Irish coach John MacLeod predicts that Taylor will definitely gain strength in the following years and become a solid rebounder. Dennis Taylor was officially the coach of only two of Billy's teams, but he has helped in­struct his son every step of the way. The two play together in summer leagues and in one-on­one. The elder Taylor also of­fers advice and compliments after home games, regularly traveling from Aurora, Ill. to sec his son play at Notre Dame. "I think Billy's inherited a lot 
right back and works on it until 
he gets the problem solved." 
Taylor is the only Irish freshman to perform consis­tently this season, winning the starting position before the first game of the season. Three games later, he contributed a season high 16 points on 8-of­11 shooting against Valparaiso in the team's first win. 
"lie proved himself worthy of a starting position," said MacLeod, who was impressed by Taylor's ability to shoot the ball in the open court, run the floor, and show quickness de­fensively. 
Of the latter quality, MacLeod explained, "If you consider the number of difficult assignments that he's had, he's performed very well." Averaging 30.9 minutes a game, the freshman has run into some of the na­tion's top scoring mid-sized players. The list includes DePaul's David Booth, Duke's Grant Hill, Indiana's Calbert Cheaney, USC's Harold Miner and Missouri's Anthony Peeler. 
"It helps my confidence to know that I can guard them," said Taylor. "I don't have to go into a game worrying that someone will eat me alive." 
Offensively, Taylor's role has been to knock down the medium-range shot. He has proven much more efficient (47-for-105) than backup small forward Carl Cozen (8-25). Compared to the aerial show of Ellis and Sweet, and the play­making of Bennett, Taylor's role seems limited. But when the senior trifecta leaves, Taylor hopes to become a more versatile offensive threat. 
failing to control a player. Murray was suspended for an incident in which defenseman Yves Racine left the penalty box to continue an altercation in the Red Wings' 5-5 tie with the Hangers Sunday night. Racine was suspended without pay for 10 games. Both suspensions will begin Tuesday night. Associate coach Doug MacLean will run the team in Murray's absence. Murray had hoped he could appeal his suspension, but Rule 66, which covers what discipline is to be handed down when a player leaves the bench or penalty box. is clear and leaves no room for appeal. 
Jer~ Glanville: Two-sport Coach? 
•DATONA BEACH, Fla. -Atlanta Faleons eoach Jerry Glanville is negotiating to become part owner or a NASCAR team put together over the weekend by Felix Sabates and Kyle Petty. Glanville "wants to buy part of the team," Sabates said. "He'll be here Wednesday. so we'll see." Sabates, who owns the Winston Cup team Petty drives for, has committed to buy the Busch Grand National race cars of Team Ill, whose owner Sam McMahon III is facing bankruptcy proceedings in Charlotte, N.C., with his father, Sam McMahon Jr. Glanville had been negotiating to drive in races with Team Ill begininning March 1 at Rockingham, N.C. 
Defiant Loss Gives America3 A Boost 
•sAN DIEGO -Defiant's first loss in the America's Cup Defender Selection Series was a victory-for America3 the boat, America3 the syndicate and Buddy Melges the skipper. The America3 Foundation's newest boat, also named America3, was launched only last week and has already won its first two races, defeating its older stablemate, Defiant, on Monday in the third raee of the second round-robin of the defender trials. Melges, from Zenda, Wis., had served as skipper of Doflant in the first round but was at the helm of Ameriea3 Monday. Melges, an Olympic goJd medalist in 1972 and Star class world champion in 1978 and 1979, has not lost a race in these first two preliminary cup rounds. 
u:::::·~ 

'rfjL.....r. ;@';:;\_ 
"(1 urtle ....creek 
Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 
211 0 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses 
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 



CouVttfty CZJQo/tigt 
& GIFTS. INC. BY DENNIS 
8080!5 U.S. 31 SOUTH PH. 219·291·3937 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 48814 
• -.... 
-
• 


291-3937 
"As he gets a better feel for 
who he's playing and makes 
adjustments to the college 
game, he'll be even more ag­
gressive," said MacLeod. "And 
next year he'll be even 
stronger." 
Taylor's maturity shows on and off the court. His 27 turnovers are easily lowest among starters. "lie under­stands how to play team bas­ketball," said MacLeod. 
While still a junior at West Aurora High School (averaging 
18.6 points and 9 rebounds), Taylor committed to Notre Dame. As a 16-year old being recruited by the likes of Northwestern, Wisconsin, Michigan and Stanford, Taylor showed foresight in his deci­sion. 
"When I first was recruited by Notre Dame and Digger Phelps, the first thing they re­ally emphasized was aca­demics," explained Taylor. "I was really impressed by that. Other schools mention it, but they really sold the basketball part. Notre Dame was talking life after basketball." 
MacLeod is happy to have Taylor. "He is a solid player and a top-flight person," MacLeod said. 
Like his father, Taylor is not banking on a career in basket­ball. Dennis Taylor took a de­gree from Northern Illinois to become a Director of Operations for a business in Aurora. 
Taylor lists as his "craziest ambition: To be a CPA or CEO in the NBA or for NBC." Either one would be A-OK with his father. 






~CLUB 

STUDENT BARTENDER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM OP AT THE LAFORTONE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS 
MARCH 5, 1992 

... 
Wednesday, February 12, 1992 page 15
The Observer 
GARY LARSON

THE FAR SIDE ll.t St>-\lJ, WI-lt.!'\ l'~ CLOER, 

0\SCC'IE.R 11\P..\ ~EI<£. fiRE ~EW ?L'd>-5\.IR~'S GRE"r>.ltR \\.\!>-~ \..f.J\R~I~. r--__.., 

CT<Of'Tlf!N·OOMN HA5 
KTHAT HANK 'T GET A OAT€ HIN II 2'1 HOUR P£RIOll. SO, FAR HAtlK 
HAS &~N 6HOT~ 7 WOME-N. HERE 
GOE.S ll zs...... 
CROSSWORD CAMPUS 
Wednesday 

6 p.m. Open Students' Alcoholics Anonymous Meeting. Office of Drug and Alcohol, LaFortune Student Center. 
Thursday 

11:30 a.m. Hospitality Luncheon. Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by Catholic Worker House and Center for Social Concerns. 
LECTURES 
Wednesday 

4 p.m. Life of the Mind Series, "Take a Long Loving Look at the Real," Keith Egan. Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. 4 p.m. "On a Certain Blindness in Human Beings: Psychology and World Overpopulation," George Howard. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kroc Institute. 
6:30 p.m. "Conducting an Effective Mail Campaign." Room 124, Hayes-Healy Center. Open to students of all majors, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 

@Edward Julius Collegiate CW8808 

46-post 13 Stroked, as an Thursday ACROSS 48 Certain sandwiches animal Ruin the reputa­
49 Wandering 14 Anesthetics 

12:15 p.m. "An Engineer's View of System Design, or Where Does 
tion of 50 West German state 18 Imitated a crow 10 Juicy fruit 54 Mr. Grant 23 Hitchcock's "­
the System Start and Where Does It End?" Stephen Batill. Room C­15 At stake (3 wds.) 55 Winter weather Curtain" 103, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kroc Institute. 16 Do construction index (2 wds.) 24 Named 
work 58 Dodge 26 Comedian Louis 17 0' Neill play 59 Certain odds 27 Big crowd (3 wds.) (3 wds.) 
28 Forgo 19 Male sheep (Br.) 60 Fleur-­
34 Liquid measure 20 Acute 61 The quality of (abbr.) MENU 
21 "-Fideles" being lean or thin 35 "A wrong'd thought will break -of
22 Give off Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
steel "-Chapman

24 Tornado DOWN Marinated Flank Steak Philly Sandwich 
36 Part of the foot

25 Rambled .(2 wds.) 
(2 wds.) Sandwich Batter Fried Perch 
27 In the middle, for 1 Old World bird short 
2 Cruel 37 Floating structures Cheese Sticks with Marinara Bean Burritos 29 Madison Avenue 3 Enter (2 wds.) 38 Expungements Grilled Sole Deli Bar 
output 4 --square 39 Keyboard i nterva 1 30 Jou rna 1 i tern 
5 Have care or 41 Was in a dither 31 Like some college 
concern 42 Reach a destination courses 6 Robert -43 "-Knowledge" 44 Shows pain
32 Sierra -7 --novel 33 eager's target 
8 -instant 47 -Warbucks 34 Park in Quebec (at once) 50 Dock space 
51 Famous middle name
39 Nine, in Venice 9 Bo Derek film 
40 Galahad's garb 10 Co-star of "Mid­52 Southwest wind 
night Run" 53 Appraise41 Cul-de-­44 Entertained, in 11 Frosts 

56 No-, ands, or part 12 Zoroastrian buts 45 Climbing plant writings 57 Swindle 

rJ,~ <vlf L~JJJJY Kr..N!+.t 
<oll<~r+
MARCH&-15 
7 NIGHTS AT THE RAMADA INN 
FOR $199 !! 

Tuesday
~-·~~!UB EXECUTIVE BOARD _j 
BUS TRANSPORT~T'oOII INClUOEOI 

February 25, 1992 
_ = APPLICATIONS _
L 

7:30 PM
CorUCI the Secre1ary In the Sludenl Gowmment Olllce, Applications can be picked up at the Student Government 
Showing at the J.A.C.C.
2nd Floor LaFcllln Sludenl Cenler receptlon\st's desk (BAP.B) and th-ey are due by 
tt 

Februarv 21, 1992 Tickets are $12.00 ror ND/SMC student
CAll. 239-7668 

$18.00 ror General Admission Interviews are F~bruary 2 7 (Sign up tor an Interview when you turn In your application) DEADLINE FOR SIGN-UPS IS FEBRUARY 141!1 
on 5Alf TODA1W
(A $75 DEPOSIT IS REQUIRED AT SIGN-UPS) 
·me positions inchult>: 


N~;.z
Dn.Hd Man.1j:tCr 
Oin·ctur of Markding 

Campus Band Competition Director of Progr.unming l>ircdor of Rcl.Jtions 
Saturday,March 21 Stel!&n Center 
Sian up your campus bands NOW II Leave information with BARB in the Student Government Off1ce (2nd Floor of Lafortune) 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

.. 

Sports 

page 16 Wednesday, February 12, 1992 
Coach alleges racist treatment 
Questions motivation of athletic department 
By DAVE DIETEMAN players alleging he was neglect­view that he was no longer Sports Editor ing the team. according to Hich wanted as a volunteer coach. O'Leary. associate director for Anderson said he believes the 
I\ former Notre Dame volun­HncSports. dismissal stemmed from a teer coach n~cently denied rein­1\.t the start of this semester, racist attitude displayed by the statement has qw~stiorwd his the team was without a coach. University in accusing him of dismissal and brought allega­O'Leary confirmed that Bill An­falsifying information on the tions of racism against the Uni­derson Jr. was approached application. vnrsity athletie department. about three weeks ago by club Anderson said he indicated 
Bill Anderson Jr.. who led the President Mike Flecker to re­on the application that he had Irish to a 13th place finish at turn as coach, but was denied never been convicted of a the NCAA dub division national the position by University offi­felony. tournament in 1990, alleg1~s cials. "There was a question that that he was dismissed in the "I won't comment other than said, 'Have you ever been con­spring of 1 CJCJ I from his unpaid, to say that we felt it would be victed of a felony?' and I said, volunteer position as coach of better for our team to not have 'No,"' Anderson said. thn men's volh•yball club team him as a coach for our team "And they lthe University! for unexplairwd rnasons. this year." said O'Leary. said, 'We did a records cheek,"' 
"I felt that there was no need "University hiring is not in­which indicated Anderson had for m1~ to b1~ dismissed," said volved here. lie held a committed a felony. Anderson, who is black. volunteer position. The players Anderson said officials han­
Anderson said several have asked to have him back, dling the application review told coaches and athletic depart­and the University has said no. him the alleged falsification ment officials had made racist This all stems from the would not have mattered if he remarks to him and to black circumstances of a year ago." were applying for a non-coach­athlet1~s and roaches while at Anderson's dismissal ing or maintenance position. Notre Dame. The events surrounding An­The situation in question oc­
"I know there is racism at derson's dismissal in 1991 re­curred in 1981 when Anderson Notre Dame," Anderson said. main confusing. was a sophomore at the Uni­"They give a false image that Anderson claims Kelly ap­versity of Cincinnati. According blacks lit in well here. But how proached him in the spring of to Anderson, he and two fra­many black students are there 1991, telling Anderson that he ternity brothers were involved that aren't athletes? They paint had to of'ficially apply for the in a prank at a Cincinnati su­a pretty picture and it's not that volunteer coaching job he had permarket that was considered pretty." held since 1985. a misdemeanor. The students 
Notre Dame Athletie Director Anderson said that he filed an fled the scene after the incident Dick Hosenthal refusnd to application with Human He­and were later apprehended by comm1mt on Anderson's allega­sources at that time, which was police. tions. reviewed by Human Besourees, Ohio law stipulates that flee­
The men's club was coached as well as Assistant Athletic Di­ing a misdemeanor is a felony, by Steve Anderson (no relation) rector Thomas Kelly and according to Anderson. last semester, who was re­O'Leary. Anderson alleges that "But at that time, my lawyer moved after complaints from he was informed after the re-see RACISM/ page 11 

Irish men squeak out sloppy victory over Cardinal 
By ANTHONY KING Keefe was frustrated most of averaging 24.9 points a game deficit to four. I\ Keefe steal and then dished to Keefe for a dunk the night. He was forced to sit corning into the contest. assist to Dukes put the Cardinal to get the Cardinal within live. 
Associate Sports Editor 
down at with 8:25 left in the "I thought Notre Dame did a within two, and forced a Notre With 1 :30 left, Stanford began first half, when he picked up his good job defensively," explained Dame time out. to test the Irish's shaky freeIt wasn't pretty. 
third foul on a player control Stanford coach Mike It went nip-and-tuck for the throw shooting. Dukes fouledIn fact, at times it was down­foul. Montgomery. "They took away next five minutes, before the Daimon Sweet, who hit one freeright ugly, but it was a win for 
"The best way to shut him some things. Our offense never Irish would go on a run. throw, making it 59-5:~. Sweetth1~ Notre Dame men's basket­
(Keefe) down is to get him into really seemed to get into any Bennett started the run with a got another chance at a one-ball team, 64-63. 
foul trouble," stated MacLeod. kind of a flow. Everything coast-to-coast drive for a layup. .and one with 55 seconds left,Frustration was the word for 
With Keefe out, the Irish seemed to be a half a step off." During the run, however, and this time sunk both to boost
both offenses, as the contest 
managed to increase the lead to The Irish pushed their lead to LaPhonso Ellis picked up his the margin to eight.
was marred with poor shooting 
live at half, on a Carl Cozen free 42-34, on a tip in from a per­fourth foul on a charge, forcing After a made basket, fresh­and sloppy play. 
throw. sistent Jon Boss at the 15:15 him to the bench with 6:01 left man Billy Taylor was put on the
Thn Irish deserve credit. 
The Notre Dame defense con­mark. in the game. Jon Boss filled in line for a one-and-onn. Taylor
though, for never n~linquishing 
tinued to keep the Stanford at­But Stanford would not go for Ellis with a rebound and a missed the front 1~nd. and Dukesth1~ lead after thn 7:40 mark in 
tack confused and out of sync in away, due to the pesky play of follow to give Notre Dame a 58-brought the Cardinal to withinthe first half. 
the second half. LaPhonso Ellis guard Peter Dukes and Keefe. 48 lead with 4:48 to go. four, with a layup. Sweet iced
Elmer Bennett hit the jump 
knpt Keefe at bay, forcing the 6-Keefe grabbed a loose ball, and After a time out, Stanford more free throws, bnfore
shot that put Notre Damn up for two 
CJ forward into poor shots. Keefe slammed it home to lead the made their final challenge for Dukes banked in a three to slimgood, and incrnasPd the lead to would only hit on 8 of 17 shots, Cardinal on a run. Off a re­the lead. Point guard Marcus the lead to thrne.
18-15 on a spinning layup. 
and total 17 points. Keefe was bound, Keefe laid it in to cut the Lollie knocked down a three,
Stanford sensation /\dam see SLOPPY/page 12 

Irish frontcourt works to hold Keefe in check 
By MIKE SCRUDATO but we just weren't getting the ball in the spots we 
Sports Writer 
wanted to get it," Keefe said. As Irish coach JohnTho NotrP Dame men's bas­
MacLeod had planned, Ellis
ketball team overcame a poor received help all night from
shooting performance, in 
Keith Tower and Joe and Jon
which thny shot 45 percent 
Hoss.

from the floor, to upset the "We knew we couldn't stopStanford Cardinal, 64-63. 
him one-on-one, no one can.
The key to the Irish victory The best way to stop him is to was the tremendous defensive 

gnt him in foul trouble,"effort by the Notre Dame 
MacLeod said. 

frontcourt on Stanford All-That is exactly what the
1\.nwrican t:andidatn /\dam Irish did, as Keefe pi<:ked up
Keefe. LaPhonso Ellis 
three fouls in the first 12
matched up with Keefe for 
minutes of the gamn. 

most of the game. but he was "They were just dumb fouls;not the only one responsible it was stupidity on my part,"
for holding the .James 
Keflfe commented. "Those amNaismith Player of' the Year 
the type of fouls I usually
finalist in check. 
don't eommit." 
"Their pressure defense 

Despite the early fouls,
bothered us, not so that we committed a lot of turnovers. 
see UPSET/page 12 
Blue Demons haunt Notre Dame, 62-49 Poor second-half shooting dooms Irish to another loss 
By JENNIFER MARTEN The Irish shot a mnager .240 Notre Dame no one nlsn had pereent in the second half and more than four points. 
Sports Writer 

pulled down only nine offensive "We shot poorly," said Notre rebounds, while DePaul had a Dame coach Mufl'et McGraw.
I\ loss always hurts, but a loss 

.424 shooting percentage in the "We've got to have someone 
to a traditional rival is even 

half and grabbed 17 offensive who can come in and score for 
more painful, as the Notre 

rebounds. In addition, DePaul us. We need ComalitaDame women's basketball team 
notched 13 steals against the (llaysbert) to score. We're
found out in its 62-49 loss to 

Irish in the half. coming off a bunch of gamesDePaul last night at the J/\CC. 
Senior center Stella Woodley where she's scoring, but it just
Poor second-half shooting 

led the Blue Demons with 20 wasn't there tonight. Tonightand disappointing offensive re­
points and seven rebounds in we didn't have anyone whobounding created an obstacle 
the game. Junior guard Tammy could score." 
that the Irish could not over­Williams added 13 points and The Irish opened the second come. Notre Dame played tough 

eight rebounds and junior Hita half with a one point advantage, the entire first half battling the I tale chipped in 10 points of her but that quiekly disappnarnd as
Blue Demons' "in your face 

own in addition to a tnam lead­DePaul took control of the gamedefense" and took a one point ing eleven rebounds. with their solid shooting andadvantage into the half, but fell 
For the Irish, senior captain tenacious defense. The Blue apart in the second half. 
Margaret Nowlin led the team Demons found hot hands all"We just didn't shoot well. We in the scoring and rebounding around as guard Su1~ Welene,didn't have a lot of rebounds. 
catagories with 17 points and Woodley, cnnter Cathy l'erdirtz,We had a lot of turnovers. All nine rebounds. Freshman guard and guard Tammy Williams allthis along with our poor shoot­Michelle Marciniak was right put points on the board.
ing makes for a long night," 

behind with 16 points and live Assists from Washington and
said junior guard Coquese 

rebounds. Unfortunately for
Washington. see DEPAUUpage 12 






