
~.P!lft
-Q&· 

1!42·1992 

e Observer SaintMa~,Cd~
SESQUICENTENNIAL 
NOTRE OAME•INDIANA 


THURSDAY , JANUARY 23, 1992
VOL. XXIV NO. 79 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Notre Dame football player arrested at local club 
By SANDY WIEGAND 
Associate News Editor 

Notre Dame student and football player Troy Ridgley was arrested early Wednesday morning at a local lounge on charges of public intoxication, disorderly conduct and resisting law enforcement, according to the South Bend Police Department. 
Ridgley, a 22-year old Sorin Hall junior, refused to leave the kitchen of Studes Lounge, 2206 Mishawaka Ave., after Patrolman Steven Noonan re­peatedly told him to return to the main bar, the arrest report said. The arrest occurred at 3:03 a.m. 
On a bicycle built for two 

A lounge patron called the police department, and upon Noonan's arrival told the officer two white males had "threatened him and threw popcorn all over him," Noonan said in the report. 
Noonan then asked partial owner David Marozsan, who was behind the bar, what the problem was. Marozsan di­rected him to the kitchen, and said the men were not supposed to be there. 
Ridgley and Eric Jones, a 21-year-old Sorin Hall junior, and also a football player, were in the kitchen eating popcorn, and Noonan told them to return to the bar. 
The men ignored Noonan, the report said, and when he repeated the order, Ridgley threw popcorn at Noonan. He then said he was a friend of another owner, Dick Groth, swore at the officer and refused to leave. 
Ridgley then asked to see Groth, who was not in the lounge, the report said. 
"Again he stated that I did not understand and that he was not leaving," Noonan said. 
The officer then radioed for back-up units "due to the physical size and disposition of Ridgley," who plays defensive line for football team. 
Marozsan said he could not reach Groth by telephone, and had called another owner, Tim Decker, who wanted the men to leave. Jones also repeatedly encouraged Ridgley to leave, the report said. 
Noonan told Ridgley he was under arrest, and placed a handcuff on his right wrist. 
But Ridgley "began shaking his body back and forth and extending his arms out in an attempt not to be handcuffed," Noonan said, and "began moving towards the door." 
Back-up officer Cpl. Pat Lahey and Noonan again tried to handcuff Ridgley, then pushed him onto the floor, where he continued to struggle. 
With the assistance of two other 
see ARREST/ page 4 


The Observer/David Hungeling 

Sophomores Ryan Lake (front) and Will Sutton ride home from class on Will's 3-speed bike. As modes of transportation, bikes and roller blades are increasing in popularity typifying students' busy lives. 
Questionable aid service targets N D 


By NICOLE MCGRATH 
News Writer 
A scholarship service of ques­tionable legitimacy has hit Notre Dame's campus, accord­ing to Joseph Russo, ND direc­tor of rmancial aid. 
"Another mass mailing has been taken notice of on cam­pus," said Russo. 
The College Financial Aid Service, whose mailing address is in Washington, D.C., is actu­ally working out of an office in Northbrook, Illinois, said Russo, leading him to suspect the financial aid-location service's legitimacy. 
"Where the (student) ad­dresses are secured is uncer­tain," said Russo. Notre Dame does not sell student address labels even though their direc­tory is public, he said. 
It is not known how many packets have reached students, said Russo. Since he was noti­fied Monday, his office has re­ceived calls from dozens of concerned students and par­ents. 
When College Financial Aid Service was contacted for this story, a representative con­firmed that they are working out of offices in Northbrook, Illinois. 
They said that the offices in Washington D.C. are being ren­ovated. The mail received at those offices is forwarded to Illinois. 
They have been in business for six years, according to their customer service. 
Up to two thousand applica­
see AID I page 4 

Washington marchers mark Roe v. Wade anniversary 
WASHINGTON (AP) Abortion foes massed 70,000 strong Wednesday on the na­tional Mall, marking the 19th anniversary of the Supreme Court's decision legalizing abortion with a new optimism that the ruling's days may be numbered. 
"I just feel it," said Vi Randall of Godfrey, Ill., pointing to changes that have swung the high court rightward since its landmark decision in 1973. 

A day earlier, the court agreed to review a restrictive Pennsylvania abortion law, and activists on both sides of the is­sue have said the justices may well use that case to undermine the Roe vs. Wade decision. 
Anti-abortion activists also rallied in dozens of other cities Wednesday, including a crowd of 5,000 in Atlanta who heard Roman Catholic Bishop James 
• 
South Bend protest march I page 6 

• 
Abortion issue in presidential race/ page 6 


Lyke declare that America has been "torn asunder over a law ... which makes life cheap." Most of the marches were ac­companied by smaller groups of counter-demonstrators. 
President Bush, addressing 

Bush pledges aid to former U.S.S.R. 
WASHINGTON (AP) President Bush pledged $645 million in new U.S. aid Wednesday to the beleaguered people of the former Soviet Union as they struggle to "make the leap" from communism to democracy and free market economies. 
Bush's unexpected gesture at a 47-nation conference on emergency relief to the Soviet people could inspire others to hike their own contributions even though Secretary of State James A. Baker III had said there would not he a bidding contest. 
In fact, several of the gov­ernments participating in the conference came forward later in the day with offers of new assistance, said U.S. officials who spoke on condition of anonymity. The prospective donors and the amounts were not disclosed. 

At a luncheon, meanwhile, Baker singled out oil-rich Saudi Arabia, Australia and New Zealand for private consulta­tions. 
The United States "cannot and will not falter at the mo­ment that these new states are struggling to embrace the very ideals that America was founded to foster and pre­serve," Bush said in opening the conference. 
His aid proposal, which must be approved by Congress, marked a shift in emphasis since the new aid would not have to he repaid. Bush told the gathering that the United States has pledged more than $5 billion in various forms of assistance, but most has been in the form of agricultural credits that will benefit U.S. farmers. 
"Let us join together to give these people a reason to hope," Bush said at the ceremonial opening of the two-day summit. "Let us commit ourselves this morning to work in full part­nership as we proceed." 
The bulk of the new aid would he used to set up a $500 million account for humanitarian as­sistance. Another $25 million would purchase badly needed pharmaceuticals, and $20 mil­lion will help farmers become private entrepreneurs after more than a half-century of communism. Money will also go to technical assistance and de­velopment projects. 
Russian President Boris N. Yeltsin saluted the participants 

see RUSSIA! page 4 
the Washington crowd over loudspeakers, got cheers when he said: "I want to reafrrrm my dedication and commitment to the simple recognition that all life is a precious gift, that each human being has intrinsic dig­nity and worth." 
Marchers in Washington and the other cities said that in ad­dition to changes in the makeup of the Supreme Court they also see changes in public views of abortion. 
"There's a change in atti­tudes, especially the attitudes of young people," said Mary Ellen Fattori of Havertown, Pa., an English professor at Villanova University. "They have a conscience like they haven't had for 15 years. The apathy has gone away." 
see ABORTION/ page 6 

A rose is a rose 
The Observer/John Rode 
Sophomore Shannon Pfarr delivers flowers from Irish Gardens around the Notre Dame campus to the lucky recipients. 


l I 
I 
Thursday, January 23, 1992 The Observer page3 

Notre Dame's Smith elected to alumni council at Harvard graduate school 

Special to The Observer 
Roland Smith, executive as­sistant to the president of Notre Dame, has been elected to the alumni council of Harvard University's Graduate School of Education. 
Smith earned his doctorate in education from Harvard in 1988. He holds a bachelor's degree from Bowie (Md.) State College and a master's in public affairs from Indiana University­South Bend. 
After working three years with the city of South Bend, Smith came to Notre Dame in 1973 as assistant director of the University's Upward Bound program. He became director in 1976, and in 1980 he estab­lished and became director of 


Roland Smith 
the Center for Educational Opportunities, which includes Upward Bound, Educational Talent Search and other pre­college projects. 
Smith was appointed to his present position in 1988. He 
By PETER LOFTUS Assistant News Editor 
Elections for Notre Dame's Graduate Student Union (GSU) officers will be held sometime in March, it was announced at yesterday's GSU meeting. 
Prospective candidates must file for candidacy by mid­February, said GSU President Kurt Mills, although definite dates for both the elections and the candidacy deadline date have not been determined. 

In other business, it was an­nounced that a GSU report rec­ommending child care on ND's campus will be submitted to the ND Board of Trustees on Feb. 6. 
Members of the GSU Quality of Life committee reported that, based on data from a recent survey of graduate students and advises the University's presi­dent, Father Edward Malloy, on a variety of issues and serves concurrently as associate pro­fessional specialist in the Institute for Urban Studies. Most recently, he has been Notre Dame's liaison in a coop­erative effort with Xavier University of New Orleans and Clark Atlanta (Ga.) University to increase the number of African­American students who pursue academic careers. 
The Harvard Graduate School of Education Alumni Association is governed by the alumni council, a board of 12 graduates elected to four-year terms. The council meets twice annually to promote the inter­ests and activities of the school's alumni and students. 
GSU announces officer election dates 
an examination of waiting lists at Saint Mary's child care center, there was a "strong need" for childcare on ND's campus. 
A Friday afternoon graduate club gathering will be held at the Wilson Commons from 4:30 to 7 p.m. 
GSU officers named Jay Hosler as the new social officer. 
The Observer!Oavid Hungefing
Laundry anyone? 
Steve Murphy walks back to Pangborn w~h his clean laundry. St. Michael's Laundry reopened this semester with services available 



to both Notre Dame men and women. 
% 




12 Month Certificate of Deposit 
Interest Paid at Maturity • $2,000 Minimum Deposit 
6.25% 
12 month IRA Certificate of Deposit 
~~ Esll 

Interest paid at maturity • $500 minimum deposit 
~~ ~'f,i Spanish Mass ~

6.00% 
IRA Savings • Interest paid monthly • $100 minimum deposit 
Todos Estan lnvitados 

Annual interest rates listed above are subject to change without notice. Substantial penalty for early withdrawal. Call today to see how you may qualify for credit union membership. 
All Are Welcome 
Sunday, January 26 

0 
10:00 a.m. 
Breen-Phillips Chapel 
Celebrante 
Rev. Timothy Scully, C.S.C. 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Sponsored by CamJlUS Ministry
•r

(219) 239-6611 
(?MPUS 
Office of Minority Affairs


NCUA 
MINISTRY
lla'IIOIIIIIC!•dLI\IInOIIA.dllllllllllaiiOII 
atiSGoT•romtDII.Qtlltf

Independent from the University of Notre Dame 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 
page 4 Thursday, January 23, 1992 



Harkin labels rival Clinton as enemy of labor unions 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Tom Harkin on Wednesday cast Bill Clinton as a union enemy unlikely to attract traditional Democratic support, drawing an angry retort from the Arkansas governor that the party must change if it wants to win the White House. 
The escalation of the Harkin­Clin ton clash came as Democratic presidential hopefuls swarmed the nation's capital wooing labor, mayors and abortion-rights activists. 
Republicans, meanwhile, picked a conservative senator to lead the party through a 1992 platform fight over abortion. And GOP sources said President Bush had tentatively picked Feb. 12-Lincoln's birthday­to formally announce his re­election bid. 

Three presidential contenders -Democrats Harkin and Paul Tsongas and Republican Patrick Buchanan -launched new ads aimed at voters in New Hampshire's leadoff primary. 
For the Democrats, Wednesday's campaign agenda was a reminder of the many interest groups that demand attention during the presidential primary season. 
And a reminder that the intraparty squabbling is getting nastier by the day as New Hampshire's Feb. 18 election approaches. Harkin, an Iowa senator bringing up the rear in New Hampshire polls, is the leading aggressor. 
"Is this the kind of guy you want running for president in 
According to Russo, some­times there is no company from 
Aid 

which to obtain a letter of de­cline.
continued from page 1 

College Financial Aid Service cited an 85 percent success rate in locating financial aid for 
tions are received per day, said students. the representative. Meanwhile, "As was the case a couple of about six customers per week years ago, students should be ask for refunds. To receive a very wary of making such an refund, students must supply a investment," said Russo. photocopy of each fmancial aid Two years ago, a financial aid decline form. service of questionable le-
Russia 
continued from page 1 
in a message declaring "humanitarian and other forms of assistance by the interna­tional community will no doubt help alleviate the difficulties our population is facing as we move to a market economy." 
Yeltsin offered assurances that Russians have made an ir­revocable decision to create a civilized, democratic state. "However," he said, "one has to 

~ 
r pay dearly for past mistakes 
~ 
r and delusions." Deputy Prime Minister Yegar Gaidar, Russia's top economic official, said help was essential 
r 
"to prevent economic collapse." 

r 
"Aid offered now can help

r 
prevent this," he wrote in r Wednesday's editions of
r
, 
London's Financial Times. "It 
would be much more valuable 
than aid offered later." 
Bush, Baker and other senior 
U.S. officials were under pres­sure from Germany, the leading 

British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd agreed at a news conference: "We're not in the business of creating a depen­dence culture.... we've got to encourage the economic re­forms that are underway." 
Once the immediate problems are overcome, Hurd said, the next goal must be getting Russia, Ukraine and the other republics into the International Monetary Fund "and getting down to working out with them the bigger questions of their economic reforms and whether we can help make sure that they are a success." 
But with winter exacerbating food shortages and transporta­tion snarls, the plight of the nearly 300 million people in what was once one of the world's most powerful countries apparently has gripped the administration. 
"If this were a war we would call this Operation Provide Hope," Baker said. "Yet this is not a war to defeat aggression, but a peacetime battle to sup­port democracy and freedom." 
donor to the former Soviet :::::·:· Union, some other European al-}~;~;i lies and critical investment :;:;:;: bankers here at home to be :;:;:;; more generous and also less /fdemanding that the new na-::;:;:;:: tions swear allegiance to capi-:~;~{: talism. ::;:;:;: Sounding this self-help theme, :ff Baker in his own speech, said :;;:;:;: "these newly liberated peoples ;:;:;:;: know the ultimate responsibility ::;:;:;: for their success lies in their ;:;:;:;:; own hands." {{ 







~.~~~~:~, 
:~: ~: ~: ~ 

officers, Cpl. Thomas Leszcz ({ and Cpl. John Floyd, Ridgley}} was finally handcuffed, the ;:;:;:;: report said. {{ 
Ridgley was confined to the :;:;:;:; St. Joseph County Jail until his?} $250 bond was posted, at 4:30 ;:;:;:;: a.m., a jail official said. . {{ 
His initial court appearance IS:;:::;:: scheduled for 8 a.m. February:;:::;:; 12 In Superior Court, according\} to WNDU broadcasting station. :;:;:;: 
i}~;~ 
the Democratic Party?" Harkin asked a Machinists' union gathering as he waved a headline detailing Clinton's support for a free trade agreement with Mexico. 
"NO!" was the booming response of the union leaders, who relished Harkin's heated rhetoric and the promise of power in his White House. Harkin also slammed Nebraska Sen. Bob Kerrey for supporting Bush on Mexico trade, and reminded the union leaders of child-labor violations at Kerrey's restaurants. 
"It's time to take ofT the gloves and tell it like it is," Harkin said. ''I'm the only real Democrat." 
Harkin was barely gone when Clinton came before the clearly hostile Machinists. The Arkansas governor opened his remarks by detailing areas where the Democratic candidates agree but then mocked Harkin's "real Democrat" pitch. 

Clinton said he was eager to work with labor, but held fast to his arguments on open trade and said American manufacturing would be competitive again only if labor worked with management on flexible work rules. 
"We're not going to get very far with this 'real Democrat' stuff," Clinton said. "I'd like to remind you that this country was at its greatest when we were united in change.... I'm a 
gitimacy mailed information to Over 95 percent of financial students at colleges nationwide, aid resources come through including NO, and was based in standard channels, according to San Diego, according to Russo. Russo. 
An estimated four million "We've not had any packets dollars were made from this hit Saint Mary's campus as far operation. as we know," said Mary 
"Students find much greater Nucciarone, director of finan­success by doing their own in-cial aid at Saint Mary's. vestigation," said Russo. Contacting schools, government Any SMC students who agencies and public service receive the packet are asked to groups are popular ways to look bring them to the financial aid 
f[] [cholarship.::.;s.'===~-----=o=f=fic.:.;e;:!,~s~a=id=N==uc=c=ia=r=o=n=e=.====;;R,;;;us;;s;;;;O,;,·=======:;,
1 

l!dJ 1ID
;== r= 

Applications are now being accepted for the position of 
Editor-in-Chief 1992-93 
Anyone interested in applying should submit a resume and a personal statement not exceeding five pages to Kelley Tuthill by 5 p.m., Friday, January 24, 1992. 
Further information is available from Kelley Tuthill at The Observer, 239-7471. 
=F=============================================================,=
D1L 

Spring Break Seminars 
March 8-14, 1992 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR  ~  
- Service Learning at one of six  ~  
sites in the Appalachian region  
- One-credit Theology  

-Information meeting: Thurs., Jan. 23, 7:30 -8:00 
CULTURAL DIYERSITY SEMINAR -Explore the cultural richness of Chicago -Examines issues of diversity and related concerns -One-credit Theology or Sociology -Information Meeting: Thurs., J;;m. 23, 6:30-7:00 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
The People's Revolutions in Ellstern Europe llnd the Soviet Cvmmonwea/Jh: A Search for Social, Economic, llnd Politiclll Justice 
-Direct Contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. 


-One credit Theology -Information meeting: Thurs., J;m. 23, 7:0D-7:30 PM 
Applications Available Now at CSC Applications Due: Wed., Jan. 29, 1992 
Democrat by heritage, instinct and conviction but I am an American first and so should you be." 
All the candidates were appearing later in the day before the U.S. Conference of Mayors. 
And they also were attending a National Abortion Rights Action League gala, held on the 19th anniversary of the Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion. 
Abortion already was a sure issue in the 1992 campaign before the high court announced this week it would review a Pennsylvania case that could lead to the gutting or reversal of the 1973 Roe vs. Wade decision. 
Russo said that students should be cautious with any mass mailing offering funds to students. The recession is mak­ing students look harder for money but Russo says to think twice before buying into the service. 
Financial Aid Awareness Week is coming up and is a good time for students to look for alternative funds, said 
uDJ 
Center for Social Concerns 
ffie?elco SeTYlce 
I
p.,.ejecr/Setnlna..,.. 
-Three weeks in Oaxaca, Mexico May 11 to June 1, 1992 Oeaving time for summer work) 
-Service-learning cosponsored by Maryknoll 
I 
-One credit Theology -Spanish not required 
Applications due: Wed., February 5, 1992 

.•.·,"\ ..-.. .. •·... -. 
The Observer 

Thursday, January 23, 1992 page 5 


Skiing in Indiana 
Corrine Patton, the instructor of an upcoming cross-country ski clinic at Notre Dame, demonstrates her abilities. The beginners clinic starts Wednesday, January 29 at 4 p.m. Anyone interested can register w~h Recsports in advance. 
.--~-------­


Need A Spring· Break? 
c.-­
~ Treat Yotm)elf To A Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break 
The Ultimate Sailing Experience 
[§11 l..SQQ..359..9808 Today I \,"'" 
The Department Of Music Presents 

Christine Rutledge & William Cerny In a faculty 
o/io{a and Piano 1\.f,cita{ 
Thursday, January 23, 1992, 7:30p.m. Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art 
The concert is free and open to the public 

WHAT'S NEW AT 
RecSports 
\RE YOU INTERESTED IN ANY OF THE FOLLOWING SPORTS • 
RACQUETBALL --SQUASH
HANDBALL ~ TENNIS 
TABLE TENNIS · . BADMINTON 
..\oRE YOU HAVING TROUBLE FINDING A PARTNER? 
CHECK OUT THE NEW PLAYERS BOARD POSTED ACROSS FROM THE VARSITY EQUIPMENT ROOM (BETWEEN THE VENDING MACHINES)! 
FILL OUT THE FORM AND LOCATE PARTNERS IN YOUR FAVORITE SPORTS 
DON'T WAIT 
PLAY TODAY! 
Indiana House defeats 'living will' legislation after emotional debate 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP)-The Indiana House defeated on Wednesday a bill that would have allowed people who have living wills to authorize an end to life-sustaining artificially supplied feedings when the people are terminally ill. 
After an emotional and re­flective 90-minute debate, rep­resentatives voted 55-43 against House Bill 1001. 
Members of the family of Sue Ann Lawrance, an Indianapolis woman who died while her family tried to have her feed­ings stopped last year, watched from the House balcony as rep­resentatives debated the issue. 
Several lawmakers recounted personal and poignant stories of the deaths of close relatives, including two former represen­tatives, during the debate. 
Rep. Robert Hayes, a Columbus Democrat who spon­sored the measure, said he be­lieved terminally ill or injured people should have the option to die with dignity rather than have their lives prolonged by artificial feedings. 
He pointed out that both the 
U.S. Supreme Court, in the publicized case of Nancy Cruzan of Missouri, and the Indiana Supreme Court, in last year's Lawrance case, had held that artificially supplied food and nutrition was the same as medical treatment that could be withheld under living will statutes. 
Hayes' bill would have speci­fied that the artificial supply of food and water through feeding tubes could be cut off, just as extraordinary medical steps can be under existing law. 
"This legislation_ puts the de­cisions about health care where they should belong -with the individual and the family," said Hayes. 
Rep. Vernon Smith, D-Gary, recounted the death of his mother, the Rev. Julia Smith, last summer. He said after she died of kidney problems, he said he decided to write a living will to order the cessation of extraordinary life-prolonging procedures if he became termi­nally ill. 
"If it comes to the point I'm going to be in a vegetative state, let me pass," he said, holding up his living will. "That is my decision. That is not something imposed on me." 
Rep. Vanessa Summers Barnes, D-Indianapolis, said her father, former Rep. Joseph Summers, had made it clear he didn't want extraordinary life­prolonging procedures before he died of cancer last year. 
"He let us know he would rather die than have a quality of life he didn't know anything about," she said. 
But others told similar stories but gave them different in­terpretations. 

Germany turns back nuclear shipment 
BONN, Germany (AP) ­German customs officers have seized a load of American nu­clear components being shipped to Libya through Germany, a government spokesman said today. 
Dieter Vogel, the spokesman, would not specify what was in the shipment other than saying the components were "dual use" items for a nuclear pro­gram. He would not say whether he meant a civilian or military nuclear program. 
However, the government ap­peared to act very quickly and to consider the shipment very sensitive. Libya is widely thought to be trying to develop nuclear weapons, although its government has denied that. 
Vogel would not say where the components came from in the United States, but he said they would be returned to the United States. He said intelli­gence agencies tipped customs officers to the shipment. 
Vogel would not say when the shipment was seized. However, he disclosed it while informing reporters that the Cabinet voted today to 'approve a change in export regulations aimed at Libya. 
The new rule prohibits "sensitive" items from being transported through Germany to Libya "when the government has reason to believe these items are to be used for arms purposes." 
Asked why Libya had been singled out, Vogel said, "Because it's a special case." 
The government is still smarting from the 1987 scandal in which German were found to have helped the Libyans build a poison gas factory at Rabta. The German government initially denied the U.S.-lodged allegations, but later confirmed them. 
German companies also have been implicated as suppliers of Iraq's nuclear and chemical weapons programs . 
Correction: 
A student pictured donat­ing blood in a photograph on page 7 of Wednesday's Observer was incorrectly identified. The student was Thomas Finn Corleone. The Observer regrets the error. 




page 6 
Hoosier pro-lifers march in South Bend 
(AP) -About 450 anti­abortion activists marched in South Bend Wednesday to protest the 19th anniversary of the Supreme Court's decision making abortion legal. 
The St. Joseph County Right to Life's annual march around the federal building was just one day after the nation's highest court agreed to reopen the abortion issue. 
The court agreed Tuesday to decide a Pennsylvania case that would place some of the most stringent restrictions on abortions in the nation. 
While the justices said they will try to focus only on the Pennsylvania case, some people believe it could be a step toward overturning the 1973 Roe v. Wade case. 
"It's no longer a matter of 'if' but a matter of 'when,"' said Julianne Marley, 
Abortion 
continued from page 1 
Said Michael Quinn, 69, of Bay Shore, N.Y. "People are impressed that we fight and die to preserve freedom all over the world, and they realize that they should also preserve the lives of babies right here." 
The sense of a turning point was also evident among abor­tion-rights proponents staging coun tar-demonstrations, in­cluding several hundred who 
r lined a block of Constitution 
Avenue to exchange chants and r finger-pointing with the r marchers. r Aundrea Cika of Alexandria, 
, 
Va., 28 years old and eight months pregnant, said it was~ the first abortion-rights 
~ 
demonstration she had ever at­
r 
tended. r "With the court stacked as it 
r
, is now," said Ms. Cika, "there's a need for those of us in the
r 
r middle to come out." She said r she probably would never have r an abortion "but I don't think I I should control other people··s r choices." 
The anti-abortion demonstra­tors applauded Bush's pledge to "continue to oppose and fight back attempts by Congress to 
The Department ofMusic Presents GUESTARTIST 
DAVIDBOE 
of the Oberlin Conservatory 
Organ Recital 
Sunday, January 26, 1992, 8:00p.m. Sacred Heart Church 
The concert is free and open to the public 
''POOUPS'' TWINS ARE 21! HAPPY BIRTIIDAY DARIN AND DEAN 
LOVE, 
MOMANDDAD 
executive director of the 
National Abortion Rights 
League's Indiana atriliate. 
Abortion opponents won a battle in Fort Wayne on Tuesday, when a federal judge approved an annual march in front of the city's only abortion clinic. 
U.S. District Judge William Lee agreed to modify a permanent injunction that has prohibited protests in front of the Fort Wayne Women's Health Organization Clinic by those involved with Northeast Indiana Rescue. 
Because of that injunction, the city wouldn't allow the pa­rade to pass the clinic last year, during the group's 18th annual march. 
When the city denied the re­quest by parade organizers again this year, the group went to court. 

expand federal funding for abortions" and his statement that the number of pregnancies ended by abortion is "simply unconscionable." 
Bush, like Ronald Reagan be­fore him, has spoken from a distance to the crowd each year as president. Seventeen-year­old Jackie Thomas of Southfork, Pa., applauded the president's words, but muttered, "He should be here." 
Wednesday's rally had a par­tisan ring to it, particularly speeches by Rep. Robert Dornan, R-Calif., who called Bush the "first line of defense" against abortion, and Rep. Chris Smith, R-N.J., who said, "In 1992 we have to go politi­cal." 
"With every Democratic con­tender for the presidency vocif­erously pro-abortion," said Smith, "I think it is ... morally imperative upon us that we work night and day to re-elect the president and to make gains in both the House and the Senate." 
On Wednesday night, the five major Democratic presidential contenders -Bill Clinton, Tom Harkin, Bob Kerrey, Paul Tsongas and Jerry Brown ­were to attend a fund-raising event sponsored by the National Abortion Rights Action League. 
The Observer Thursday, January 23, 1992 
Presidential hopefuls face abortion issue 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Supreme Court's decision to re­view a restrictive Pennsylvania abortion law this election year thrusts an emotionally charged issue into the presidential race, and some say it could affect the outcome. 
The high court plans to hear arguments in April and a ruling is d_ue just before the Democratic and Republican nominating conventions, assur­ing that abortion will be on the minds of voters and party strategists. 
Polls show most Americans support legalized abortion. Democrats, who are strongly identified with that position, view the coming court battle as a political opportunity that could easily touch on the race for the White House. 
"This is a big weight on the minus side of the scale for George Bush," said Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster. "A lot of people think he has come to his pro-life views by political 

calculation. So there's a 
character problem, but beyond 
that he's just out of step. He's 
been for constitutional 
amendments to make abortion 
illegal." 

Some Republicans concede 
the renewed focus on abortion 
could put their party on the de­
fensive. But Charles Black, a 
Bush campaign adviser, said the 
issue has been a wash his­
torically. 

"There's no proof that pro­
choice gets you more votes than 
pro-life," Black said. He added: 
"Given the state of the economy, 
this is not going to be a decisive 
issue." 

On Wednesday, the 19th an­niversary of the Supreme Court's Roe vs. Wade ruling that legalized abortion, Bush called the anti-abortion movement "a 
'righteous cause." He told participants in the "March for Life" that "I am out there with you in spirit." 
He called the number of abor­
tions unconscionable and 
pledged to continue fighting congressional attempts to fed­erally fund abortions. 
The five major contenders for the Democratic presidential nomination, all of them in favor of legal abortion, were sched­uled to speak Wednesday night at a National Abortion Rights Action League dinner. 
NARAL released the tran­scripts of four TV ads scheduled to start next week on CNN and some local stations. 
In one, a woman discusses her back-alley abortion; in an­other, a retired Marine says a botched illegal abortion killed his mother when he was 4. The two others paint a grim picture of the consequences if the court overturned Roe vs. Wade. 
Democrats agree that the economy is a primary voter concern. But they also play up the potential significance of a court ruling perceived as end­ing or seriously threatening le­gal abortion. 

Thursday, January 23, 1992 The Observer 
Algerian officials arrest Muslim leader 
ALGIERS, Algeria (AP) -The government arrested the leader of Algeria's Islamic party Wednesday and banned all gatherings outside mosques, trying to break the back of the Muslim fundamentalist move­ment. 
The moves came 10 days after the military-backed gov­ernment canceled Algeria's frrst free parliamentary elections, which the fundamentalist Islamic Salvation Front was winning. Troops were sent into the streets, and hundreds of fundamentalists reportedly have been arrested. 
The Islamic Front said its acting president, Abdelkader Hachani, was arrested Wednesday in the suburb of Bachjara, a stronghold of fun­damentalist support. 
The official Algerian news agency APS, quoting "sources close to the government," said Hachani was arrested after he called on members of the army to revolt. 
The Islamic Front issued a statement, signed by Hachani, on Tuesday that urged the army to "rid the people" of the authorities now in power. 
APS also reported the arrest of journalists at the indepen­dent daily El Khabar, an Arab­language newspaper that had printed two Islamic Front communiques. 
About the time Hachani was arrested, the government an­nounced a ban on any public assembly around mosques -an order certain to increase tensions with members of the Islamic Front. 
"All gatherings around mosques are officially forbidden no matter what the day or hour," Algerian officials said in a published statement. 
The ban comes two days be­fore Friday prayers, the tradi­tional political forum for the front. 
Since it was recognized as a legal party in 1989, the front's leaders have used mosques as the primary place to gather support, demonstrate the party's strength and spread its message. 
A government statement said the Cabinet also would take steps "to encourage education and religious practice and to prohibit all partisan activity" within mosques. It did not elaborat 
Hachani, a 36-year-old former teacher and petrochem­ical engineer, been serving as head of the party since the ar­rest in June of party leaders Abassi Madani and Ali Belhadj. 
He presided over the sweep­ing gains made by the funda­mentalists during the opening round of parliamentary voting last month, the first multiparty national elections since inde­pendence from France in 1962. The party was expected to do well in runoff elections last week, but the government canceled the vote. 
Algeria had been ruled by the National Liberation Front as a one-party, Marxist state since independence. The army, whose leaders are hostile to the fun­damentalists, forced President Chadli Bendjedid to resign Jan. 11 because he was ready to share power with the Islamic Front. 
Neither Hachani nor his party have discussed in detail what kind of Islamic state they envi­sion. They have said religion would be the cornerstone of all aspects of society but have not specified the extent to which they might enforce such mea­sures as a ban on alcohol, re­strictions on employment of women, or limits on political opposition. 
-· ·-----------~----~--~--­
---......------­
page7 
The Observer/John Rock 
Still decorating 

Freshmen Brad Holub and Will Freve (front) study the goods avail­able at the poster sale in LaFortune. The sale runs through Friday. 

Mudd supporters say he wasn't part of Lincoln murder 
WASHINGTON (AP) Descendants of Samuel Mudd asked the Army to clear his name Wednesday, 127 years after the doctor who set John Wilkes Booth's broken leg was convicted as a conspirator in Abraham Lincoln's assassina­tion. 
In a hearing before a military panel, Mudd's relatives and Civil War buffs who support his claim of innocence depicted him as an honest man wrongly ac­cused in the hysteria that fol­lowed the 16th president's murder on April14, 1865. 
"The Mudd family hopes ­finally -for justice for Dr. Samuel Mudd," his grandson, Dr. Richard Dyer Mudd, told a five-member panel of the U.S. Army Board for Correction of Military Records. "I hope this hearing will permit my grandfa­ther and grandmother to rest in peace." 
Mudd's supporters argued that not only was he innocent, but that the military tribunal that convicted him had no jurisdiction and violated his rights. 
Jan Horaly, an expert in mill-
OR 

tary law, testified that Mudd should have been tried in a civilian court. Jack McHale, a retired FBI agent, attacked the reliability of witnesses against Mudd, some of whom were mentally unstable. 
"Frankly, the government did not prove its case," McHale said. "He (Mudd) was totally innocent. He should never have been arrested, brought to court or anything." 
Richard Mudd, of Saginaw, Mich., has lobbied for seven decades to have the charges 
00 
dropped -even though President Andrew Johnson par­doned Samuel Mudd in 1869. 
It has became a family cru­sade. Twenty of Mudd's de­scendants attended the hearing in a small room in the Pentagon. They ranged in age from Richard Mudd, whose 91st birthday is Friday, to six­month-old Zachary Seidman of Baltimore. 
The baby, whose mother oc­casionally carried him from the room when he whimpered, is the great-great-great-grandson of Samuel Mudd. "He doesn't have much interest in this," deadpanned Mary McHale, daughter of Richard Mudd. 
And the attorneys who pre­sented Mudd's case have family connections. Richard Mudd, 50, is great-grandson of Samuel Mudd. Candida Steel, 42, is great-great-granddaughter of Thomas Ewing Jr., the lawyer who unsuccessfully defended Dr. Mudd before the military tribunal. 

Both practice in the Washington area and have long been interested in the Mudd case. Ironically, they met only two years ago, when they went head-to-head in a divorce case. 
Booth, a well-known actor and Confederate sympathizer, shot Lincoln in the head as he watched a play with his wife at Ford's Theater in Washington. Booth leaped from president's box to the stage, but lost his balance and broke his leg. 

Half Of This Year's Medical School Class Got There With Our Help 
No one can guarantee your acceptance to medical school. But we can guarantee that you'll score your highest on the MCAT. Our unique Test Your Best"' guarantee is your insurance policy. If you're not completely satisfied with your MCAT score, we'll let you repeat the entire course...at no charge! 
We offer expert live instruction, innovative home study materials, unlimited revjew in our TEST-N-TAPE• labs and lots of personal attention. That's why Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared more test takers, and produced more top MCAT scores, than everyone else combined! 
! STANlEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan Or TakeYour Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
For other locations call 800-KAP-TEST 


00
for 

Come into McDonald's® and have two Egg McMuffin® sandwiches for breakfast (6:30a.m. -10:30 a.m.) or two Big Mac® sandwiches anytime during the rest of the 
day for only $2.00, plus tax. 
Available for a limited time only at participating northern Indiana McDonald's. Prices may vary. Current prices and participation subject to independent operator decision. 
Starts Friday,January 24, 1992 
McDonald's Today"" • 
.··..... ·"··­
--~~---~----~~----~-~----~ 

S'ftlDRN'f i)ODY 
<>yRERtlARY10
fRR8IDRN'fI 
Informational Meeting January 23
VICR fRR8IDRN'f 
7:00pm Student Government Office
thRC'fiON8 
TflERfJARy ~4 
QhASS QFFIC~R 
Informational Meeting February 6 
~h~CTIONS
7:00pm Location TBA 
~PROVED FOR POSTt" 
PUI.l DATE 
rEB 1 ~~ 1992 

STUDENT ACTfiiTIES OFFICE UNIVfllSITY OF NOTRE DAMf 
S'TtlD~N'T 11ARCH ~ 
~ 1:'-NA\U'I:'_ Infortnational Meeting 
Q)~ -~· ~ February 13 
7:00 ptn ~ h ~C'TI 0 NS L...---_L_o_ca_tio_n_T_B_A_-----J 
l-~-----------­
Thursday, January 23, 1992 
Current Economic Issues 
Graduates face dim job prospects 
Which U.S. workers received global recognition for their efficient job performance and high-tech tools? 
U.S. armed forces in the Gulf War. 
Which U.S. workers are seen as marginally competitive in global markets and in constant danger of losing their jobs or having their real earnings reduced? 
Most of those workers not in the armed forces. 
This contrast results from a matter of supply and demand. On the demand side, there has not been a shortage of good jobs in the military sector; that is, jobs that pay well, are reasonably secure and offer training and advancement opportunities. As long as the USSR was in business we spared no expense in recruiting, arming, training and caring for military personnel. 
Not so on the home front. For some time now there have not been enough good jobs to go around. Instead, the economy has been generating a disproportionate share of low-wage, intermittent jobs offering little or no useful skills and work experiences. Because our labor market policy essentially has been to have no policy, the civilian labor force(especially it blue collar component) has not been particularly well-trained or cared for. 
It is hard to say how much of this labor demand problem is cyclical and how much is structural, i.e. how much short-term and how much long-term. Recent recoveries from economic recessions have not been as robust as in the past and right now we don't know if we are experiencing recession or just sluggish growth. Specifically, mediocre cyclical performance has been compounded by a long-term structural decline in the good producing industries that are critical to prosperous, balanced growth. 
U.S workers nevertheless are expected to compete effectively against German engineering, Japanese quality control, Italian design and Mexican wages. They must do so in an environment marked by industrial downsizing, regional and international mobility of production, and worsening labor standards and work conditions. 
On the labor supply side, the Pentagon says that most of its current enlistees are occupationally ambitious high school graduates from working class families -the same persons who used to occupy high-paid blue collar production jobs. 
But, as the army recruitment advertisements say, the alternative is flipping hamburgers and washing cars. So the best and brightest of our working class youth may be enlisting in the military. 
What ought to disturb college students is the growing similarity between their career prospects and that of the working class. Just as blue-collar workers were the first to experience the dangers of toxic industrial substances from exposure to them, so too were they the first to experience the employment dislocations and earnings losses associated with American industrial decline. 
Millions of them lost good jobs during the 1970s and 1980s, and countless others took pay and benefit cuts. 
Today, corporate middle-managers, professionals and technicians also are feeling the effects of recession and structural change. Almost daily, we read about another large number of them being let go after a merger, consolidation or leveraging of a rmn. 
A few service sectors continue to grow, such as health care, but the evidence suggests the demand for entry­level jobs leading to managerial and professional careers is not keeping up with the supply of qualified, young applicants. 
Because these positions traditionally have been reserved for college graduates about to embark on their careers, prospects are much dimmer today than they were yesterday. Hence, the paucity of job placement activities on this and other campuses. To the extent that this scarcity is cyclical, it is just a matter of college graduates waiting it out and perhaps moving back in with their parents for the duration; to the extent it is structural, however, many promising careers may be dead in the water until something is done. 
Meanwhile, those college graduates who choose military careers may have the same edge over their classmates that high school graduates who choose the army have over theirs. 
ROTC anyone? 
The views are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Business 
page 9 
Job cuts could haunt economy 
NEW YORK (AP) -General limiting the need for layoffs. most disappointing Christmas Motors, 74,000 jobs. IBM, 49,000 But in the meantime, the drawn­shopping seasons in years. jobs. Citicorp, 17,000 jobs. And out job cuts could have many The announcement Tuesday by now, United Technologies, 13,900 damaging effects on the economy, United Technologies Corp. of jobs. such as hurting consumer 13,900 job cuts through 1995 
Unlike one-time layoffs of the confidence. heightened the problem, Fralick past, often prompted by plant "It's fairly demoralizing if you said. It followed similar closings, these job slashings will be know there's even a small announcements by Citicorp, spread over several years and probability you're going to be laid International Business Machines, could haunt the economy long off. You're going to cut back on General Motors Corp. and Sears, after the recession ends. your spending," said economist Roebuck and Co., all leaders in 
"The recovery will be limited by Doug Handler of Dun & Bradstreet their industries. it," said Ken Goldstein, an Corp. Most of the jobs to be eliminated economist at the Conference Consumer spending, which under the plans will never come Board, a New York-based business accounts for about two-thirds of back, said economist Richard Hoey research group. "This is an economic activity, must pick up for of Dreyfus Corp., a mutual fund economy that is not going to come any economic recovery to operator. back with any kind of great bang." accelerate, economists say. And another impact of the 
Corporations apparently believe "We had those waves of layoffs in cutbacks is they will limit the they are being more humane by October and November. You saw number of new employees hired by announcing their cuts far in what happened to consumer these companies. advance, experts said Wednesday. confidence -it just plunged," said "It's going to be a horrible job They hope to entice employees to James Fralick, an economist with market for new entrants and the take early retirement or opt for the investment firm Morgan, people who lost their jobs," Fralick other voluntary severance plans, Stanley & Co. That led to one of said. 
Democrats introduce trade bill 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A group of House Democrats on Wednesday introduced a bill aimed at eliminating Japan's trade surplus with the United States and highlighting differences with President Bush over the trade issue. 
The United States this year will buy $42 billion more in goods and services from Japan than it will sell that country, a gap the bill's sponsors say is due mostly to un­fair restrictions Japan places on 
U.S. products. 
"Our bill is designed to open the Japanese market, to fight Japanese protectionism and to give American workers and American firms the right to compete overseas and the ability to generate wealth here at home," said the measure's primary sponsor, Majority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo. 
Renewed debate on trade with Japan comes at a moment of increased tension between the two countries, with harsh rhetoric on both sides. 
In a statement, Gephardt ac­cused Bush of an "election year conversion" that prompted his recent trade mission to the Far East. "The trip was right, the A group of House Democrats introduced a bjlf Wednesday aimed at eliminating purpose was right ... But the Japan's surplus with the United States. Majority Leader Richard Gephardt results were wrong," he said. said the bill was designed to fight Japanese protectionism. 
Act will increase funding for study abroad 
Special to the Observer countries not emphasized in other independent financial means to 
U.S. study abroad programs like participate in study abroad The National Security Education those in Africa, South America and programs on a massive scale. 
Act of 1991 was signed into law by Asia. The program will also providePresident Bush Wednesday, "Our entire nation suffers as a fellowships to graduate students to creating the largest new higher result of our ignorance of study foreign languages and area 
education program of its kind since international languages and studies as well as grants to the National Defense Education cultures and it is my hope that this universities to create or enhance I Act of 1958. legislation will provide part of the foreign language and area studies 1
The act increases federal funding means to create the international programs.of abroad undergraduate study outlook we must have if we are to Graduate students receiving programs and is expected to allow keep this country at peace and fellowships under the program will 
jmore non-affluent and minority prosperity," Boren said. be required to teach or work for a students to study in foreign Funding for study abroad government agency for one to countries. Senator David Boren, scholarships under this program three years for every year the D-Ok., authored the act. will be set at $12 million in the fellowship is provided.
Only 42,000 American college first year and at least $4 million Boren noted that while America students currently study abroad, thereafter. has de-emphasized international with 75 percent of them going to One of the most important education and language skills since five West European countries. benefits of the program will be the the passage of the National Other nations send 356,000 college expansion of study abroad Defense Education Act in 1958,
students to study in the United opportunities for non-affiuent and our economic competitors have States every year. minority students. Most students been following the opposite path. 
Under the new program, college who currently study abroad must A one-year appropriation of $35 students selected as "International raise private funds to pay for their million was provided to get the Exchange Scholars" will receive trips. program started, and interest on 
scholarships to study abroad for The National Security Education the trust fund will pay for the one or two semesters. Priority will Act will for the first time allow program costs in subsequentbe given to students going to college students without years. 

-~~------­
--~-~---­
Viewpoint 
Page 10 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Maneging Editor Buain-Manager lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
N-• Editor ..•.•....•..•.••.••.•••Monica Yant Adverliaing Manager ..... .Julie Sheridan VI-point Editor•••..•••....••.•..Joe Moody Ad Dnlgn Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sport• Editor •••••••••••••••David Dieteman Production Manager ........... .Jay Colucci Accent Editor •.••••••••••••••.••.John O'Brien Syatem• Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor •.......•. .Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saini Mary'• Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the polides of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions 
on campus through letters, is encouraged.  
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR  
Dear Editor:  
In the days before and after  
Christmas a series of bombs ex­ 
ploded around the city of  
Belfast in Northern Ireland,  
causing widespread destruc­ 
tion. Little news was given to  
these bombs, as a matter of  
fact, the news that was given to  
the American people was the  
British Army is again put into  
the unpleasant situation of be­ 
ing the saviours of the inhabi­ 
r,  tants of Northern Ireland. This is just another method of justi­ 
r  fying the war and methods em­ 
r r r  ployed by the British Army. In my recent trip to Northern  
r  Ireland I received a first hand  
r  view of the situation. I found  
r  that the spirit of the people in  
r  the towns of Londonderry  
(called Derry in the Republic of  
Ireland) and Belfast has been  
hurt, but is not destroyed. I  
found that most people are  
concerned with the day to day  
struggle with keeping or even  
getting a job. The war is rarely  
mentioned by the layperson,  
due to fear of possible retal­ 
iations by some group including  
the British Army. Workers are  
afraid to wear religious items  
since this would present possi­ 
ble targets for extremists  
groups. Recently a law has been  
passed barring the displaying of  
any religious symbol ill the  
work place.  
While travelling in Northern  
Ireland I found myself in very  
precarious positions, however  
the places that I was the most  
scarred were the check points.  
The road blocks are manned by  
the Royal Ulster Constabulary  
and British soldiers. The British  
r  soldiers are rotated through  
DOOHESBURY  

so for them to adjust to urban warfare. Thus the police (RUC) are stationed to be "spotters." 
I received general questions most of the time by the soldiers, but a few times I got a thorough body search at the road blocks, especially if I was coming to the center of town from the West of Belfast, the Falls Road area. The soldiers are particularly aware of anyone from this area. The Falls Road runs through the strong Nationalistic Catholic areas of Belfast. 
During the week after Christmas the British Army brought reserves into Belfast from the Ulster Defense Regiment (UDR). This mainly protestant detachment, which explains why it can not patrol into Catholic areas, has been called into question. 
A number of UDR soldiers have been revealed to be mem­bers of the Ulster Freedom Fighters (UFF). The UFF is the loyalist (Northern Ireland loyal to United Kingdom) equivalent to the Irish Republican Army. The targets of the loyalist are probable Catholics involved with the republican movement. 
The latest casualty was a young man working two jobs in 
Thursday, January 23, 1991 


Loyalist shot into the mobile vehicle where the young man worked selling food. The man had absolutely no connection with any republican movement. His mother took the news very badly saying that the devil was running the minds of the people that had killed her son. 
The targets of the Irish Republican Army have been the British Government and anyone that works with the British Government. Such was the case of the seven killed workmen in Cookstown. Until recently the IRA have issued warnings be­fore shooting "collaborators" telling these people to stop helping the British Government or suffer the consequences. The idea is to hurt the British eco­nomically, but at times one has to question the goals of the IRA. 
In my touring of Belfast I found the conditions in the West Belfast area to be deplorable. There is widespread unemploy­ment, in some area 80 percent are unemployed, and the houses are poorly maintained. The upkeep on the houses is too expensive if you do not have a job. 
Some of the communities have put together Community Service 
ams cate the community members. One such program is the Spring Hill Community Service. It is su­pervised by Father Des Wilson, who works relentlessly to help his community develop a sense of dignity and pride. Father Wilson has been to Notre Dame in the past to speak about these community service centers. 
The people that I talked to at Spring Hill had a lot of personal ambition. These people were warm and friendly. They were excited by learning new skills. Other Community Service Centers certainly are needed to help train the large number of unemployed. 
For more than twenty years there has been a foreign army 
.posted to keep the peace. The British Army does this by using counter-insurgence methods to break the spirit of the people. I found this out when I saw a sol­dier train his weapon on children coming out of school. This leaves one feeling very uneasy, but to the people of West Belfast it is routine. They say we can deal with it now since we are accustomed to it. I do not think that I could get used to the tension. 
Soldiers were in the city 


center patrolling on foot especially at night. Standing in front of a shop's window at night usually meant having a soldier take aim at you, since you could be planting a bomb. I was looking at television in a shop one night to turn to face a soldier sighting his weapon on me. My stomach was in a knot for a long time after this encounter. 
The future of Northern Ireland is not clear. Talks with some of the political parties are sched­uled to begin soon, excluding Sinn Fein the political arm of the IRA. Sinn Fein is not allowed to attend since they will not renounce violence as a means to achieving reform. However, do not expect these talks to accomplish anything. The parties are so entrenched with there own agenda that al­most none of the parties will compromise. 
The Social Democrats Labor Party (SDLP) seems to be willing to bend the most. It is willing to terminate the hope of a United Ireland. Many of the people in Northern Ireland are starting to question the SDLP's legitimate representation of the people. It is sure that until the British Army leaves, the Unionist will do their best to stall talks, since any agreement will only hurt the power that the Unionists have. 
Students wanting more infor­mation can contact Robert Kehoe, president of the Northern Ireland Awareness Group at Notre Dame. 
Kenneth Lamkin Off-campus Jan.21,1992 

GARRY QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'People call me a feminist whenever I express sentiments that differentiate me from a doormat or a prostitute.' 
R. West 

Submit NOW! QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Accent 
Thursday, January 23, 1992 page 11 
By JAHNELLE HARRIGAN just a lot of rhetoric. They had good Assistant Accent Editor intentions, but didn't offer any solu­tions," McHugh said. 
Poverty, the homeless, drug addiction, "We all have to make decisions as unemployment. These problems may voters, business leaders, or politicians. not seem prevalent on the Notre Dame People have good intentions, but that's campus, but in reality they are just not enough. Many people treat the around the corner. symptoms but don't fix the problem," 
During the first week in January, 363 McHugh added. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students The group was very impressed by participated in a program that helped Merrit and came away with a sense of them become more aware of the social hope, according to McHugh. "Before I problems facing America's inner-cities. went I was pretty hopeless, but Dewey 
The Urban Plunge program, had actual solutions and was doing coordinated by the Center for Social things," he explained. Concerns, is a "48-hour immersion into Amy Hardgrove, a junior at Notre the inner-city, observing and/or working Dame, also participated in the Urban with individuals, agencies and parishes Plunge program this year. Her Plunge, which are striving to meet the needs of located in her hometown Chicago, Ill., the poor," according to the program's lasted only 38 hours rather than the 
literature. typical 48 hour program. 
The program is conducted during the "I decided to do Urban Plunge first week in January each year, with because I felt that a good way for me to students participating for a designated understand the poverty problem in 48 hours within that week. Through a America would be to see the poverty registration process students are able to which is prevalent in my own city," choose the city they wish to work in; Hardgrove said. this year 63 sites were organized in 4 7 Hardgrove's Plunge group spent time 
cities. touring the city and saw both wealthy 
Sue Cunningham, coordinator of and poor sections of Chicago. They Urban Plunge, explained that a primary worked in a soup kitchen, visited sev­goal of the program is to "allow eral parishes in different parts of the students to experience and learn for city and talked to priests about the themselves the problems of injustice, problem of gangs, drugs, poverty and poverty and apathy in the urban areas homeless in the inner-city. of the United States." They spoke with the principal of a 
The program "personalizes the Catholic grammar school about the poverty problem," said Cunningham. "It problems of education within the city. gives students a chance to get out and "She basically said that there's almost see current issues instead of just no hope. They try to keep the tuition reading about them." low, but although many inner-city Pat McHugh agrees. The Notre Dame families want their children to attend 
junior participated in the Urban Plunge Catholic schools, they can't afford it. program this year because he wanted to After they've paid the tuition they can't get involved with social concerns in his offer much else," explained Hardgrove. hometown Atlanta, Ga. "Also, many families cannot afford the 
McHugh's 48-hour Plunge was led by high tuition of Catholic high schools, Dewey Merrit, a civil rights leader in the and kids that were able to attend 1960s who introduced his group to Dr. Catholic grade schools are forced to 
Gerald Durlay, another civil rights attend public high schools," she added. activist who works with the homeless, Before participating in the program, poor, and persons in drug rehabilitation. Hardgrove expected to have more "Both men were just phenomenal "hands-on" experience within Urban speakers," said McHugh. Plunge. However, she emphasized that 
she was able to learn much about social The group's itinerary included a visit problems in Chicago simply by talking to to a homeless shelter. It "was really priests and others who work to help
un e

interesting for me because I pictured it those in need. to be full of bums and derelicts, but "I think that the purpose of Urban instead there were lots of 30-year-old, Plunge is not so much to make a good looking, strong, working men," ex­difference while participating in the plained McHugh. program, but rather it is to take the
Urban plunge allows students to 
He emphasized that many of these experience home with you and work to people had a job or were looking for a make a difference in the future," job and simply needed a place to stay. Hardgrove said. 
experience inner-city problems 
Urban Plunge participants must don't have a home." housing projects in the Atlanta area. In "You go over a hill and it's like you're attend an orientation workshop prior to The group visited a center in the addition to visiting Techwood, a run­descending into hell. It's dirty, and taking part in the program, write a housing projects which provides down project near Georgia Tech, they there's garbage and kids everywhere. If reflection paper and attend a follow-up activities, such as basketball for saw Hutsville. This area, located under you didn't go over the hill you wouldn't meeting after the Plunge is completed. children. Activities such as these are a bridge, is filled with small huts built know it was there." One credit in Theology is given to each 
run with the hope of keeping young by and lived in by the homeless. They attended the Carter Presidential student who successfully completes all people away from drugs and street "It was pretty amazing," said McHugh. Library to hear speakers for "Project for requirements. gangs. McHugh met a 15-year-old girl "Above the bridge you see the Atlanta Atlanta," which is working to solve "We're not trying to make social who was pregnant with her third child. skyline, and below all you see are huts." social problems in the city. President workers out of everyone. I hope that 
"You hear about things like that as McHugh was very shocked by his visit Carter spoke and explained the many they (the participants) will remember statistics, but to look at it right in front to the housing projects. He explained problems facing Atlanta's inner cities. what they saw and find time in their of you ... " McHugh said. that to get there, you must travel on one "It was funny, in a really sick way. lives to do something," Cunningham 
McHugh's Plunge group spent time at of the most beautiful roads in Atlanta. They really didn't say anything. It was said. 
"These guys aren't dumb...they just 
New book offers unique insight on writing 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN Luckily for those of us who Convertible With The Top a few written efforts hit the To be sure that readers have Literary Critic are familiar with such a cir­Down" intends to show its garbage before the final copy other sources to consult if they cumstance, two successful au­readers "how to quit stalling, ever reaches the profs desk. need more extensive help, It's 2 a.m. In less than twelve thors assembled numerous let­shift into creative gear and The letters are assembled Killien and Bender have in­
-hours you have a ten-page pa­ters they wrote to one another speed successfully on your into eleven chapters and are cluded a bibliography of other per due. Even more depressing at a time when one was com­way." headed with metaphors that self-help writing aids. is that you are the only one left pleting her fifth children's book The authors cover a wide remain true to the title of the This book is beneficial to any from your class in the com­and the other was producing range of topics from basic book. They include: writer who is trying to delve puter lab and you have nothing one of her own plays. spelling and word usage to the •THE BUS: How Do We Get further into his or her talents. more than an introduction to The letters were filled with aspects of everyday life that Started Writing and Keep Killien and Bender are success­your paper. words of inspiration, as well as can bring the creative forces Going? ful in providing practical sug­
-


This is a situation that we all tips that freed one another needed to write to the surface. •THE BRIDGE OVER THE gestions for "building confi­
know too well. Unfortunately, from traps that seemed In their discussion, Killien RIVER KWAI: How Does a dence, getting started, leading it does happen. You can do re­inescapable. Christi Killien and Bender talk of both poetry Writer Visualize the Structure the reader.to the place where search until you are blue in the and Sheila Bender and prose. They even say that of a Story? real writing happens, and pol­face, as well as be convinced transformed their letters into a sometimes when a writer is ex­•AIRPORTS, NURSING ishing fmished work." that you have a solid grasp of self-help writing book titled tremely frustrated, they should HOMES AND CAFES: How Do the subject. But when it actu­"Writing In a Convertible With not be afraid to throw their Writers Keep Their A Warner Books Trade 
-
ally comes down to punching The Top Down: A Unique work away and start again. Writing from Being Boring? Paperback Original your ideas into the keyboard, Guide for Writers". The authors suggest that •HIGHWAY PATROL: How Do Publishing Date: February 1, your head goes blank and your As the cover of the book even before one· begins writers We Help Each Other as Writing 1992 fmgers grow numb. states, "Writing In a should possibly plan on having Partners? $9.95 
--------~-~ 
page 12 The Observer Thursday, January 23, 1992 
Fernandez changes style, dominates Sabatini in Australian semis 

No. 7 seed to take on defending champ Seles in finals 
MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) -Seventh-seeded Mary Joe Fernandez, inspired by Gabriela Sabatini's transfor­mation from baseliner to net­charger, usurped her style Thursday to join defending champion Monica Seles in the Australian Open fmal. 
Fernandez, runner-up to Steffi Graf here two years ago, surprised and overwhelmed Sabatini with an aggressive and accurate attack to win 6-1, 6-4 in the semifinals. 
Fittingly, Fernandez ended the match with a backhand vol­ley into an open court, a shot she used so well throughout the one-sided alTair. 
In contrast to Seles' 6-2, 6-2 demolition of Arantxa Sanchez Vicario from the baseline, Fernandez mixed up her shots as well as Sabatini did in win­ning the 1990 U.S. Open. 
Fernandez, a 20-year-old Floridian, said she thought about her straight-sets loss to No. 3 Sabatini two weeks ago on the hard courts of a tune-up tournament in Sydney. 
"I said I had to do something drastically different. I tried to 

attack a lot and come in a lot," 
Fernandez said. "I played one 
way all my life, and it's hard to 
change your mentality." 
Fernandez figured the key to 
beating Sabatini was to follow 
her example, and it paid ofT as 
she won 17 points at the net, 
compared to six for Sabatini. 
"I was missing too much and hitting the ball too short," Sabatini said. "I was feeling a little frustrated because I was making too many mistakes. I was probably surprised by how well she was doing. She changed her strategy from (Sydney)." 
The mystique of Seles has nothing to do with her tennis, as she showed once more with an unequivocal baseline bash­ing of Sanchez Vicario. 
Seles, 18, thwarted every tac­tic Sanchez Vicario tried in a one-hour match that was as straightforward as Seles' grunting groundstrokes. 
Seles, 8-0 against Sanchez Vicario, whaled away with power and precision, tattooing the lines repeatedly while the 20-year-old Spaniard tried in vain to respond. 
Whether Sanchez Vicario 
stayed back to rally or rushed 
the net to apply pressure, Seles 
ruthlessly riddled her with 
forehands, backhands and the 
occasional overhead on short 
lobs. 

"I definitely hit much better than any other match," Seles said. "At least I was happy with my serve. As the tournament started I wasn't feeling I was playing great tennis. But I've improved each match." 
The high moment for Sanchez Vicario came in the first game of the match, when she broke Seles at love. But Seles broke right back, and at 2-2 went on a streak to win seven straight games. 
"She had more confidence as the match went on, and she started hitting more winners," Sanchez Vicario said. "I have to improve my serve to play against Monica. She just con­trolled the points better than me." 
Seles expected a much tougher match against Sanchez Vicaro. In Los Angeles last year on a similar hard court, she barely beat Sanchez Vicario 6-7 (5-7), 6-4, 6-4. 
The Observer accepts classifieds I!Nery business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. a! the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next.<fay dass~ieds is 3p.m. All dassHieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds
t 
charge is 2 oents per character per day, induding all spaces. 
$350.00/0AY PROCESSING 6 OR 7 BEDROOM HOME NEAR Zenith Portable Laptop, bklit, TALL "COWBOY" wanted lor Bobby T. Dickinson and Goose
NOTICES

I I I 
I 
PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL CAMPUS.SECURITY wtbatt, 2 3.5" drives, EC, Country/Western dance Rosemann are missed madly by YOU. NO EXPERIENCE SYSTEM.FOR FALL 1992.272-Call Chris X1723 partner. Call Jen x1715 hose-wearing, cello-playing, NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. 6306 deeper-psychological types like mo. 
7 DAYS OF COMPLETE AND UTTER MADNESS ON SOUTH TICKETS A SUPPORT GROUP FOR 
PADRE ISLAND FROM $199-SALES OPPORTUNITY -Motivated HOUSE FOR RENT IN '921'93 SURVIVORS OF RAPE 
CALL JAMES AT 277-9249 lor independence and 30% SBR, 2 BTH. 1800 SQ FT. will be offered free of charge this STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA commission? The right time is washer/dryer, recently remodeled, NEED TIX FOR MICH-ND semester by Sex Offense Services Info on semester, year, graduate, NOW (317) 782-8907. near NO B-BALL. X3926 (SOS). Co-facilitated by trained summer and intemship programs in 
USED TEXTBOOKS I call 232·8256 student SOS advocates, it will be Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Buy & Sell Books open to all ND/SMC students. Held Melbourne. Programs start at Pandora's Books TEACHERS NEEDED MICH-ND B-BALL TICKETS on campus, the group will be $3520. Call1-800-878-3696. 3 blks. from NO The Ronkin Educational Group is NEEDED. 284-5084. completely confidential. For more 233-2342110.5:30 M-Sun looking lor highly qualified LAFAYETTE SQUARE info, please call the SOS office at 
instructors lor air LSAT, GMAT, has 1-four bed and 234..()061 X231. The Lizard King lives on I Down with GRE. and MCAT prep courses. 1-five bed unit avialable lor next I NEED 4 LOWER SEAT TICKETS the Crustaceans! $$NEED MONEY?$$ Part time Wor1<1Fiexible hours/Good year FOR N[).MICHIGAN BASKETBALL news carriers needed salary. Please call 273-1866. Call NOW, they won't last long GAME. Attention! Billy Hunter Call Kathy x4026 232-8256 Call Lynn at x4940. applications lor O.S.U are due by FAX MACS Fax your Mac the end of month. documents for $1 page. Free 
The Ronkin Educational Group is Nice knowin ya'. campus pick-up of your disk. Call ALTERATIONS AND seeking part-time student workers Off-Campus Aprt. Open PERSONAL Michael at 237-1864. DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL for a unique grad. school prep. 259-8684. company. Many different postions Furnished Studio with kitchen ATTENTION Women of Farley Hall: 
available. Flexible Hours/ Good if interested call: INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Pop Farley Week continues with ATTENTION: salary. Please call273-1866. Matt at 283·1518 Good rates. Save Money. Call me CLASS NITE tonight. What this To anyone who has said 
TYPING AVAILABLE  lor a quote 9:30-6:00,  means, no one knows. Take a  "Ballroom dancing -I've always  
287-4082.  289-1993. Office near campus.  chance, and find out for yourselves.  wanted to do thatl" Now's your  
Soph. or Jun. Engineer  Downtown Mishawaka office lor  chance! Classes begin Thursday  
lor Design Project  lease (studio, lawyers, doctors, etc.)  Jan 23 at Stepan Center from 8:00­ 
MATH TUTOR-All levels. Don't  atWNDU.  900 sq. ft.(4.85 per sq. ft.) $365 a  A SUMMER JOB YOU'LL LOVE I  TOP 1 0 REASONS WHY  9:30 pm. We'lllearn the tango and  
wait 'til it's too latel271-1532  Counts lor creditsll  month. Call272-6877.  Coed Massachusetts camp, 3 hrs.  PLAY·DOH MAN IS THE  3 other new dances. No partner or  
Great ExperienceIIILOST & FOUND I call Steve x1002  Bed & Breakfast lor N.DJ St. Mary's  BostorvNY City. Super kids, great food, friendly atmosphere. 100+ staff: tennis, lifeguard, WSI,  PERFECT MAN: 10. He sits quietly wherever you put  experience is needed. Give it a try-you know you want to.  

 families. 2 bedrooms, private bath.  arts/crafts, all land/water sports,  him and behaves.  
$40,000/YRI READ BOOKS and  Ten minutes from campus. Safest  fitness, gymnastics, piano/play lor  9. He never even LOOKS at other  Attention ND/SMC  
FOUND: gold/brass earring  TV Scripts. Fill out simple  neighborhood in area 324-2626.  shows, drama, judo, dance, archery,  women.  LULAC is proud to invite everyone  
medium sized, hook goes through  "'ike/don't like" form. EASYI Fun,  photography, computers, rocketry,  B. You can make him look any way  to a mixer on Friday night at  
your earring hole type, hanging kind of tear drop shaped with a thing in  relaxing at home, beach, vacations. Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24  FOR SALE  guitar, radio, video, yearbook, newspaper, wilderness, woodwork,  you want-and yes-you can even control his size...  Theodore's. Music is by Martin-E-Mix and it's guaranteed to be the  
the middle (hard to describe) Found  Hour Recording 801-379-2925  AN, more!  7.  night of your life, so if you don't  
it in front of the library right before  Copyright #IN11 KEB  6120.8/22. Call/write CAMP  Black-Red-Yellow-White-(Biue  show up, you'll really regret it.  
break  Favorite 8 Football Recipes of a  EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd.,  ???) Any color you likeI  
CALL 288-9421 if this sounds  Notre Dame Cook. $3.  Eastchester, NY 10707.  6. He listens to all your problems  
familiar  YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK  M.Sisk, 2741 S. 3rd, Niles, Ml  800/955-CAMP.  and doesn't judge you.  AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL  
TO LIVE I DO tT RIGHTI SPRING  49120.  5. He doesn't make blond jokes (or  SALE OF  
BREAK IN JAMAICAICANCUN,  brunette jokes)  GUATEMALAN GOODS  
FROM $42911NCLUDES HOTEL,  SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER  (or any jokes at all!)  JAN. 22, 23, & 24  
LOST: Ladies gold watch. Lost  AIR, TRANSFERS.  CHEAP I FBI/U.S. SEIZED  VACATIONS!  4. He's there whenever you need  WED. THURS. FRI.  
Mon. moming, 1120. If found  SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426­ 89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50,  Jamaica, Bahamas including  him.  SORIN ROOM · LA FORTUNE  
PLEASE call Tanya at  7710.  87 MERCEDES $100,65  airfare, great hotel, and much more  3. He smells goodI  9-5  
x2738. REWARD.  MUSTANG $50. Choose from  from only $599. Buy from the #1  2. He never calls you a "dumb girl"  
thousands starting $25. FREE 24  name you trust lor quality vacations.  
I need a ride to Alabama  Hour Recording Reveals Details  FOUR SEASONS  AND THE NUMBER ONE REASON  A Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days  
lor Spring Break. Call  801-379-2929 Copyright #  1-800.331-3136.  WHY PLAY-DOH MAN IS THE  $279! Panama City $99, Padre  
- LOST: HEAVY GOLD CHAIN BRACELET  Bob-2455.  1N11KJC  PERFECT MAN: 1. When you have PMS and you  $199, Cancun $499, Jamica $399 from Chicago. Call Lance 271-1681  
ON FRIDAY 1117192 BETWEEN  GLACIER NATIONAL PARK,  feel like bashing someone's head  or Lisa 283-4667  
ADMIN. BLDG. & ACC.  EARN $2000 +FREE SPRING  SAVE $ON YOUR SPRING  MONTANA  against the wall, he won't mind if  or 1-800.638-6786.  
CALL LISA  BREAK TRIPS! North America's #1  BREAK TRIP II Travel vouchers  you shmush him into smithereensI  
289-8227 IF FOUND. REWARD.  Student Tour Operator seeking  good lor airfare, hotel, & car  Have the best summer of your life  
motivated students, organizations,  rental worth $450. I need to  by joining the team rated tops in  Metal Loft Dan 232..()550  
fraternities and sororities as campus  sell-they expire! Best offer!  providing the best of Western  Mario and Jill went up the hill  
representatives promoting Cancun,  X3352  hospitality to Glacier Park visitors I  each with a buck and a quarter ....Jill  
- LOST-NJ Drivers Liscence-­Very important since I need to drive  Bahamas Daytona. 1 (800) 724­1555.  1992 Summer applications now being accepted lor the following  came down with $2.50......and a brunch  'T'N'D' Troop Notre Dame  
and I won1 be returning home until  positions: Bar, Restaurant, Kitchen  
alter graduation. Please return and get a reward $$$. Call Lauren X­ FOR RENT  5-CD carousel player---1Jood condition. Got new player lor  stalls, Desk Clerks, Salespeople, Store Clerks, Office, Service  PS Fox gets no box and Conway makes love to his sheets.  PERFORMING LIVE at halftime of the  
1711.  Xmas. $100 OBO Sean 273-9403.  Station, Housekeeping, and  
 January 23 N.D.-Missouri  
Maintenance Personnel. Interviews  basketball game  
HOUSE FOR RENT. $150/MO.  will be held on campus February 10  SCHMEGMARRIFFICI  BUY YOUR TICKETS NOWI!!  
- If you lost a gray tweed jacket at  WALK TO CAMPUS. CALL PAUL 287-2159.  Gateway 2000, 386/SX,  & 11 . Write to St. Mary Lodge & Resort, P.O. Box 1808, Sun Valley,  

Critter's wedding, call Twohy at 277-4 months old, 40 meg. HD., ID 833531or an application. ACCT231 BK!WKBK 4SALE SEAN 
4395. Windows 3.0, MS Dos 5.0, @289-6439 Happy Birthday to Chip, ROOM TO RENT. USE OF ALL 14" color monitor, much more. Happy Birthday to Chip, UTILITIES. $225/MO. 232-2794 $1,395 or will consider offer. WELCOME HOME IRISH He is finally 21 now,WANTED PAUL. Jeff 271-1822. BASKETBALLI hey nil but he's still a big drip. 

SCOREBOARD
Thursday, January 23, 1992 page 13 
NBA STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS HOW THE TOP 25 FARED 
The 1992 Albertville Winter Olympics 
Central Dlvlalon Montreal 29 15 4 62 152 110 5. Kansas (13-1) did not play. Next: VB.
Downhill Chicago 35 5 .875 1Q-O Won 11 Boston 23 18 5 51 164 159 Nebraska, Salurday. Cleveland 26 12 .684 8 7-3 Won 1 Buffalo 16 22 8 40 160 171
Combined 6. Ohio State (12-2) beat Minnesota 72-69. Next: 
Detroit 22 17 .564 12 112 7-3 Lost 1 Hartford 15 6 36 133
22 150 vs. Seton Hall al the Meadowlands, Sunday. 
SuperG Atlanta 21 18 .538 13 112 7-3 Won 2 Quebec 11 29 5 27 141 186 7. Connecticut (14-1) beat Providence 97-86 OT. 
Milwaukee 19 20 .487 15112 4-6 Lost 2 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Next: VB. Boston College at the Hartford Civic 
Giant slalom 
Indiana 15 26 .366 20112 2-8 Lost 2 Norrie Dlvlalon 
Center, Saturday. 
Charlotte 11 30 .268 24112 3-7 Lost 5 w L T Pta GF GA
Slalom 8. Kentucky (14-3) did not play. Next: vs. No.9 WESTERN CONFERENCE Detroit 27 13 6 60 192 153 Arkansas. Saturday.
Midwest Dlvlalon St. Louis 21 18 8 168 163
Alpine skiing 50 9. Arkansas (16-3) beat Florida 75-62. Next: al w L Pet GB L10 Streak Chicago 20 18 10 50 160 147 No.8 Kentucky, Salurday. 
Downhill 
Utah 26 15 .634 7-3 Won 4 Minnesota 20 20 4 44 150 159 10. North Carolina (13-3) lost to North Carolina Combined 22 .550 6-4 1 30 5 29 175 State 99-88. Next: vs. Virginia. Salurday. 
San Antonio 18 3112 Lost Toronto 12 118 Houston 21 18 .538 4 5-5 Won 1 Smythe Dlvlalon 
11. Arizona (12-3) beat Arizona Stale 92-55. 
SuperG Denver 15 24 .385 10 3-7 Lost 2 Vancouver 26 13 7 59 166 135 Next: vs. Pittsburgh, Salurday. Dallas 13 26 .333 12 1-9 Won 1 Calgary 20 19 7 47 179 
163 12. Mlaaourl (12-2) did not play. Next: at
Giant slalom 
Minnesota 7 32 .179 18 2-8 Lost 6 Winnipeg 19 20 9 47 148 151 Notre Dame, Thuraday.Pacific Divlalon Los Angeles 17 19 10 44 165 178 
13. Syracuse (13-2) did not play. Next: VB. No. 22 Golden State 25 10 .714 8-2 Won 4 Edmonton 18 23 7 43 173 188
Slalom 
St. John's, Salurday. 
Biathlon Portland 26 13 .667 1 7-3 Won 1 San Jose 10 33 4 24 118 209 14. Michigan State (13-2) beat Purdue 66-61. Phoenix 26 15 .634 2 7-3 Lost 2 
Next: VB. No. 16 Michigan, Wednesday. LA Lakers 23 16 .590 4 6-4 Lost 1 
15. Alabama (14-4) lost to Mississippi 78-n. Seattle 20 20 .500 7112 4-6 Lost 2 
Tuesday'• Gamea Next: at Georgia, Saturday. LA Clippers 20 21 .488 8 4-6 Lost 1 Detron 7, Philadelphia 3 16. Michigan (10-4) did not play. Next: VB. Sacramento 12 27 .308 15 3-7 Won 2 Winnipeg 3, Hartford 3, tie Wisconsin, Salurday. 
Vancouver 5, Quebec 3 17. Oklahoma (11-3) did not play. Next: VB. OralTueaday'a Gamea 
St. Louis 5, Buffalo 4 Robarts, Thursday. 
O~ando 105, Minnesota 92 
Edmonton 9, San Jose 2 18. Georgia Tech (13-4) did not play. Next: vs.
Freestyle­Portland 131, LA Lakers 92 
Wedneaday'a Game• Florida State, Thursday. 
Chicago 108, Phoenix 102
moguls Boston 5, Toronto 2 19. N.C. Charlotte (12-2) did not play. Next: VB.
Houston 117, M llwaukee 107 Los Angeles 3, Minnesota 3, tie Johnson C. SmKh, Thursday.
San Antonio 114, LA Clippers 100
Figure skating N.Y. Rangers 4, Calgary 4, tie 20. LouisviRe (10-3) did not play. Next: vs.
Atlanta 128, Seattle 119 Southern Mississippi, Thursday. 
Sacramento 94, Denver 85 21. Tulane (14-1) did not play. Next: VB. Temple,
Wednesday'• Gamea 
Thuraday'a Gamea Saturday.Late Game Not Included 
Montreal at Boston, 7:35 p.m. 

22. St. John's (10-5) did not play. Next: at No. 13Boston 107, O~ando 95 
Vancouver at Detron, 7:35p.m. Syracuse, Saturday. New Jersey 106, Phoenix 104 Toronto at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35p.m. 
23. Texas-EI Paso (14-1) did not play. Next: at Philadelphia 119, New York 109 Winnipeg at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. San Diego Stale, Thursday. 
Miaml125, Washington 112 Buffalo al Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. 24. Stanford (11-1) did not play. Next: VB.
Chicago 115, Charlotte 112 
Quebec al Chicago, 8:35 p.m Southam Cal, Thursday. Cleveland 119, Indiana 115, OT 
Los Angeles al St. Louis, 8:35p.m. 25. UNLV (15-2) did not play. Next: vs. FrosnoDallas 118, Milwaukee 116 N.Y. Rangers at Edmonton, 9:35p.m. State, Thursday. 
Utah 1oo, San Antonio 98 Atlanta al Golden State, (n) 
Thuraday'a Game• Detroit at Minnesota. 8 p.m LA Clippers al Houston, 8:30p.m. Utah al Denver, 9 p.m. Portland at Seattle, 10 p.m. 
LA Lakers at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. AUSTRALIAN OPEN RESULTS 
WOMEN BOYS Singlea Sing lea Semifinals Third Round Monica Sales (1), Yugoslavia, det. Arantxa Brian Dunn, Brandon, Fla.. del. Jason John Sanchez Vicario (4), Spain, 6-2, 6-2. Lijewski, Australia, 6-2, 6-3. Mary Joe Fernandez (7), Miami, def. Gab~ela Hyung-Keun Song, South Korea. del. Andrew Saballnl (3). Argentina. 6-1, 6-4. Ilia, Australia, 6-2, 6-3. 
Michael HIH, Australia. det. Steven Baldas, MEN Australia, 6-4, 6-2. Double• Leigh Holland, Australia. del. David Skoch, Semlflnala Czechoslovakia, 4-6. 6-4, 6-4. 
Todd Woodbridge, Australia, and Mark James Greenhalgh, New Zealand, del. Brad Woodforde (4), Australia, det. Richard Krajicek, Scott Sceney, Australia. 7-6 (7-4), 3-6, 6-4. Netherlands, and Jan Siemerlnk, Netherlands, 4-6, Grant Doyle, Australia, del. Troy Budgen. 3-1, retired. Australia, 6-1, 6-2. 
Kelly Jones, Escondido, CalK., and Rick Leach Scott Draper, Australia, del. Christopher (11), Laguna Beach. Cal~ .• del. Scott Davis, Davie, Mahony, Australia, 6-3, 6-4. Fla. and David Pate (2), Las Vegas. 4-6, 4-6, 7-6 Taso Vasiliadis, Australia, del. Enrique Abarca. (8-6), 6-4, 6-3. Mexico, 6-4, 5-7, 6-3. 
Chi Lonsdale is 21!!! 
Ladies of Notre Dame 
NOTRE DAME

and St. Mary's-If you see Chip today make 1992 COLLEGE BOWL sure you give him a pat 
TOURNAMENT 

on the fanny and a kiss anywhere you choose. Direct Birthday wishes Team registration forms and rules are available at and sexual requests to 
the information desk of the Center for Continuing 283-3640 Education (CCE). Forms are due back to the Center by Happy 21st Birthday 5 p.m. on JANUARY 28. 1992. Charles "Chip" Lonsdale -Manor Section 4ABE 
join Little Profes·.or for 
~~~~~~~~~~~~"!'!'~~----· 
·---~ NATIOI~AL 
BOOK WEEK JANUARY 19-25, 1992 
America's Annual Celebration of \Vriters, Books, and Reading 
Bnng in this ad during C\iational Book Week to receive ­
10% OFF* 
• offer not valid on newspapers, magazines, or with other discounts. 
~BLITTLE PROFESSORR 
l~) OOK CENTE . 
We lte/p you find bools you '1//0t,·e. 
Ironwood Plaza North (n~ar the new Martin's) State Road 23. South Bend. IN Mon.-Sat. 10 am · 9 


Alpine skiing 
SCHEDULE
FEBRUARY 

EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Dlvlalon 
w L Pet Boston 25 15 .625 New York 23 15 .605 Philadelphia 19 21 .475 Miami 19 22 .463 New Jersey 18 21 .462 Washington 14 25 .359 Orlando 9 30 .231 
GB 
1 6 6112 6112 10112 15 
L10 Streak 
6-4  Won  4  
5-5  Lost  1  
6-4  Won  3  
5-5  Won  2  
7-3  Won  4  
3-7  Lost  4  
3-7  Lost  1  

WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Dlvlalon 
w L T NY Rangers 30 17 2 Washington 28 15 4 Pittsburgh 24 16 5 New Jersey 22 15 7 NY Islanders 17 22 6 Philadelphia 14 22 9 Adame Dlvlllion 

How the top 25 teams In The Associated Press 
college basketball poll fared Wednesday:Pta GF GA 1. Duke (13-0) did not play. Next: vs. Wake 62 193 163 Forest, Salurday. 60 204 155 
2. UCLA (12-0) did not play. Next: al Cal~ornla, 53 203 169 Thursday . 51 172 134 3. Oklahoma Stale (17-0) did not play. Next: vs. 40 168 183 Oral Robarts, Salurday. 37 129 158 4. Indiana (14-2) did not play. Next: vs. Purdue. 
Tuesday. 

... 
page 14 1ne uoserver Thursday, January 23, 1992 
-Barkley sets club rebound record as 76ers down Knicks 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
~ ~ 
I 
l ~ 
~ 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I I 
... 
-
meeting between the two
Nets win fifth straight at home 
teams. The loss was the Hornets'
PHILADELPHIA (AP) back of Boston in the Atlantic fifth straight. 
Charles Barkley scored 37 Division. points and established a club 
Cehlcs 107, Magic 95 career rebound record as the Nets 1 06, Suns 1 04 
BOSTON -Reggie Lewis' 14
Philadelphia 76ers beat the EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­
third-quarter points and a 14-0
New York Knicks 119-109 Derrick Coleman scored 28 fourth-quarter run vaulted the
Friday night for their third points and reserve forward 
Boston Celtics into ftrst place in 
straight victory. Rafael Addison had 9 of his the Atlantic Division with a 107­
95 victory over the Orlando
Barkley's 14 rebounds give quarter, leading the New Jersey Magic Wednesday night. 
him 6,642, four more than Billy Nets to a 106-104 victory over Trailing 52-43 at halftime andCunningham and 10 ahead of the Phoenix Suns on Wednesday 57-49 with 9:23 left in the thirdWilt Chamberlain for the most night. 
quarter, the Celtics went on aby a 76er since the team moved 16-2 run sparked by Lewis' 10from Syracuse to Philadelphia Point guard Mookie Blaylock points. It gave them a 65-59
in 1963. The totals for also had a strong performance lead with 5:11 remaining in theCunningham and Chamberlain with 18 points, 12 rebounds, period and they didn't trail after don't include stints with the nine assists and five steals for that.
Philadelphia Warriors. the Nets, who have climbed into AP File PhoiD playoff contention with 11 vic-Philadelphia's Charles Barkley scored 37 points to lead the 76ers past Cavaliers 
119, 

Barkley scored the first 10 tories in 14 games after a 7-18 the New York Knicks 119-109 at the Spectrum. Pacers 115 points of the third period and start. They also have a five-Bulls 115, Hornets 112 over the Charlotte Hornets on RICHFIELD, Ohio-Larry had 17 in the quarter as the game winning streak at home. CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Michael Wednesday night. Nance sank two baseline 76ers built an 86-72 lead. New Addison had six points as the Jordan scored 23 points and his The win improved Chicago's jumpers in the final 1:13 as the York got no closer than 10 in Nets scored eight of the ftrst 10 tie-breaking three-point play league-best record to 35-5. It Cleveland Cavaliers overcame a the final period as the Knicks points of the fourth quarter, with 8.3 seconds left gave the was the Bulls' 14th straight five-point deficit in overtime lost for the fourth time in the breaking away from an 81-81 Chicago Bulls their 11th victory over the Hornets since and beat the Indiana Pacers last five games and fell a game tie to take the lead for good. consecutive victory, 115-112 Charlotte won the first-ever 119-115 on Wednesday night. 
Bosio, Gott sign one-year contracts 
,-----=======------=-::.:__::..:..:......::~~~ 
Pagnozzi also settles with Cardinals; 124 still to go 
NEW YORK (AP) -Chris on Dec. 20 when Seattle de­Milwaukee's offer of $2 million. Bosio, Jim Gott and two other clined to offer 1992 contracts. He can earn a $100,000 bonus players agreed to one-year con­The Mariners cited his 1991 if he makes 33 starts or pitches 
tracts Wednesday, leaving 124 salary of $755,000 and the in 220 innings. players remaining in salary ar­possibility that he would vastly bitration, and free agent right­increase it in arbitration. Gott, who made $1,725,000 in hander Scott Bankhead signed Instead, Bankhead gets 1991, will get $2,125,000, the with the Cincinnati Reds. $400,000 guaranteed from the midpoint between his request
Meanwhile, Bert Blyleven Reds and the chance to earn for $2.4 million and the team's 
agreed to a minor-league con­another $400,000 in bonuses offer of$1.85 million. tract with the California Angels. based on roster time. He was on Blyleven, who didn't pitch last the disabled list four times in The Dodgers are also close to a season and became a free agent the last two seasons because of midpoint deal at $2,575,000 after the World Series, can't be a sore right shoulder and was with reliever Jay Howell. brought up to the majors until 3-6last season with a 4.90 ERA May 1 because he signed after in nine starts and eight relief St. Louis Cardinals catcher the Jan. 8 deadline. If he makes appearances. Tom Pagnozzi also settled at the the Angels roster, he would get Bosio and Gott split the dif­midpoint. Pagnozzi, who made a $300,000 salary and the ference in their arbitration $345,000 in 1991, will getchance to earn $700,000 in cases. Bosio, who made $967,500, halfway between his performance bonuses. $915,000, will get $2,287,000, request for $1.07 million and 
Bankhead, 28, became a free halfway between his request for the Cardinals' offer of agent along with Rob Murphy $2,575,000 in arbitration and $865.000. 
• 
Glasses in 1-3 hours...EVERYDAY! 

• 
Best prices...EVERYDAY! 

• 
Best selection...over 1500 frame styles (including designer eyewear) 

• 
Our own glass and plastic laboratory to assure quality. 


QC&B. I
'QtiCQOna 
SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA 4121 S. Michigan 5327 Grape Road 
(U.S. 31 South) ( 1 /2 Mi. S. of University Park Mall) 291-9200 277-8121 



.. 
Thursday, January 23, 1992 The Observer 
Bonds to give Pirates one last chance 

PITTSBURGH (AP) -Bobby Bonilla has left Pittsburgh and Barry Bonds may be on the verge of leaving, but Bonds apparently will give the Pirates one more chance to sign him to a long-term contract. 
Bonds said he will give the Pirates until the end of spring training-and no longer-to ex­tend his contract. If they don't, he'll take the same free agency route as Bonilla, who signed a record $29 million, five-year contract with the New York Mets. 
''I'd negotiate before spring training," Bonds said. "I am not going to negotiate after that. If they want to do something, they are going to have to do it before the end of spring training." 
Bonds' agent, Rod Wright, talked Wednesday with Pirates interim general manager Cam Bonifay, but neither side wanted to discuss specifics. And neither said whether progress was made. 
"I've learned from Bobby's negotiations to keep my mouth shut," Bonds said. "I'm not go­ing to go through what he did .. 
Barry Bonds 
. I'm not going to talk about it now and I'm not going to talk about it (during spring training). I'm just going to concentrate on playing baseball and doing well." 
However, while former general manager Larry Doughty indicated last month that Bonilla's huge contract made Bonds all but unsignable to the Pirates, team president Mark Sauer appears ready for one final effort. 
Doughty said he'd try to trade Bonds rather than lose him to free agency, but received no solid offers. The Pirates now appear content to let Bonds play out the season if they don't sign him. 
Bonds, who has lost in arbitration the last two years, has filed for $5 million and the Pirates countered with a record offer of $4 million. 
Nine Pirates have filed for arbitration, but outfielder Gary Varsho avoided a hearing Wednesday by agreeing to a one-year contract worth $332.,500. Varsho, who made $155,000 last year, filed for $400,000 and was offered $275,000. He can earn another $52,500 in performance bonuses. 
Bonds says he won't repeat Bonilla's year-long public nego­tiation with Pittsburgh. 
"I'm not going to be a guinea pig for the Pirates," Bonds said. ''I'm not going to be put into that Bobby Bonilla situation. If the (negotiations) get serious, then the media will know about it. They'll probably know about it before I do." 
page 15 
SPORlS BRIEFS 

•Late 
Night Olympics teams are being organized at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Interested persons should contact their hall LNO representative for information on the latest night of the year-Late Night Olympics, Friday, Jan. 31. 

•The 
Cricket Club will have a mandatory meeting tonight in 105 O'Shaughnessy at 7 p.m. All persons interested must attend. Call Marko (3587) or Tim (1473) for details. 

•The 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will kick off the semester with Wallyball! Meet at 5:00 p.m. tonight at the JACC racquetball courts. All are welcome. 

•Attention 
all rowers, the first meeting of the year will be held on Wednesday, January 29. Novice rowers should begin running on your own, as official workouts begin January 31. Any questions call Dave Reeder. 

•The 
NO Martial Arts Institute will hold beginners' classes starting tonight in both Tae Kwon Do and Jiu-jitsu. Classes are 


7:30 to 9:30 p.m. on Thursday and 6-8 p.m. on Sunday in room 219 of the Rock. Advanced dasses are Friday 6-8 p.m. and Saturday 10-12 a.m. 
•The 
NO Tae Kwon Do club will have practice for experienced and beginning students tonight from 8:30 to 10 p.m. in the fencing gym of the J.A.C.C. Any questions, call Lisa x4852. 

•The 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will meet tonight at 7p.m. in the basement of Farley. Newcomers welcome. Call Mark at 283-1586 for more information on FCA. 

•WVFI 
will air the Missouri-Notre Dame matchup tonight from the J.A.C.C. Tune into 640 AM for the 7:30 tipoff. 


-
-
is currently accepting applications for the following paid position: News Copy Editor To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Friday, Jan. 24 to Monica Yant. For further information, call (239-5303).  

Flower Delivery 7 Days , fl@'SY 0 Pptth Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets Be Stuffing, Plants, l=resh Rowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets ~~;~~~];'~:;:re (21 9) 277•1 291 South Bn IN 46637 P...Allw••• Z41wl.  

"DAZZLING! 
\NILDLV SEDUCTIVE AND EROTIC!'' 
-P•t•r l)avers, ROLLING STONE 
Royster leaves USC, applies for NFL draft 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Mazio Royster, who became only the third Southern Cal sophomore to surpass the 1,000-yard mark in rushing when he gained 1,168 yards in 1990, announced Wednesday he will leave USC to enter the NFL draft. 
Royster, who has one year of eligibility remaining, started five games and saw action in two others as a junior last fall. He was hampered by a knee sprain early in the season, but wasn't used late in the year de­spite being healthy. 
Royster, a 6-foot-1, 195­pounder, finished the 1991 sea­son with 542 yards rushing and seven touchdowns. Overall, he is 16th on Southern Cal's career rushing list with 1, 760 yards. 
"It's a tough decision to leave USC, but I want to try my hand at the next level and I feel now is the right time," said Royster in a statement issued by the school. "I know I'm taking a risk, but I have confidence in my ability. I've had doubters 

·1 he Observer/U8VJa Lee

about my ability since I was in 
Mazio Royster (31) has decided to bypass his senior season and enter
high school." 
this year's NFL draft. He rushed for 542 yards during the '91 season.
Said Smith: "I wish Mazio well and hope it works out well for help the pros in their evaluation comes back to school to fmish him. He had a fine career here. of him so he can get drafted as up his degree, because that's We'll do everything we can to high as possible. I just hope he the bottom line." 


STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS 
& 

JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM UP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS FEBRUARY 21, 1992 
Notre Dame Communication & Theatre 
CINEMA AT THE SN ITE 
FRIDAY AND\SATURDAY 7:15, 9:45 
.. 

--~---­

... 
rne uoserver 1 nursday, January 2.3. 1992 
-SPOR'JS SHORTS UNLV players react to regent's comments 
Marchlbroda expresses Interest In Colts job 
•INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Buffalo Bills offensive coordinator Ted Marchibroda said he is interested in returning to the Indianapolis Colts as head coach, a positionfrom which he was fired in 1979. "I think every assistant wants to be a head coach. If I don't get it. I'm very happy with Buffalo," Marchibroda told The Indianapolis Star. The other candidates for the Colts' head coaching job are interim coach Rick Venturi and. George Perles of Michigan State. Machibroda, 60, coached the Colts from 1975 to 1979. His teams compiled a 41-36 record and won three AFC East titles. 
Mets and Tigers complete trade 
-
•NEW YORK -The New York Mets acquired left-handed reliever Paul Gibson from Detroit on Wednesday in a four-player deal that sent reserve outfielder ~ark Carreon to the Tigers. The Mets also sent pitcher Tony Castillo to Detroit and received minor league starter Randy Marshall. Gibson, 32, spent 10 years in the minors before coming up with the Tigers in 1988. In four years in Detroit, Gibson was 18-21 with 11 saves and a 3.88 ERA Last year, he was 5-7 with eight saves and a 4.59 ERA in 96 innings. Carreon, 28, hit .260 last season with four home runs and 21 RBis. He is the Mets' career leader with eight pinch­hit home runs, including a league-leading three in 1991. "Paul Gibson is somebody we have had very good reports on and were most interested in acquiring." Mets general manager Al Harazin said. 
Pt~tns offer Lemieux lltetlme deal 
Butler 
continued from page 20 

returned last Saturday, playing 20 minutes and scoring six points in Butler's 64-61 loss at Loyola. But the two-time all-MCC performer contributes more than just scoring to the Bulldogs' attack. 
"While she was out, they were struggling to find some cohe­
r---~------------~------~~--, 
DON'T BE FOOLED BY THE SIZE! 
llillJ 

MARK ZITO IS ONLY 20 YEARS OLD. 
M.B.A ·J.D. M.D.· PH.O. .. 
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS. 
EDUCATIOilL GROUP 
TEST PREPMTION GRADUATE SCHOOL. SELECTION 8c COUNSELING LSAT • GMAT • GRE • MCAT 
SOUTH BEND • 273-1866 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
siveness, but now with her back, I think she will give that to them," said McGraw. 
Under fourth-year coach Paulette Stein, Butler has had back-to-hack 20-win seasons, 
and like Notre Dame, has had to contend with an upgraded schedule that includes five NCAA participants from 1991. 
Along with VonDielingen, the Bulldogs will likely start 1991 MCC Newcomer of the Year Angela Cotton (10.1 ppg, 4.5 
LAS VEGAS (AP) -UNLV basketball players, upset with a reported comment from Nevada Regent Carolyn Sparks, responded by taping photos of her to the back of their shorts during practice Tuesday. 
Sparks allegedly said she was tired of UNLV coach Jerry Tarkanian recruiting "ghetto kids." Sparks denied using the term in a racial sense and said she was baited into the tele­phone conversation by Les Meilke, identified only as one of ~ Tarkanian's backers. 
Forward Evric Gray used an expletive in referring to Sparks Tuesday. 
"What it means is that all of them (regents) think that way," Gray said. "She just happened to be the one to say it." 
Forward Bobby Joyce took credit for the photo idea, tear­ing the regent's mug shot from Rebel game programs. 
"If she said it, she deserved it," Joyce said. "If she didn't, then we owe her an apology. But most likely she said it, so I'm not going to apologize ei­ther way." 
Sparks said she only told Meilke that Tarkanian "has al­ways talked about bringing in these ghetto kids and giving them a chance." 
Tarkanian uses the term "inner-city kids" and denied ever using the word "ghetto." 
The regent said she compli­mented Tarkanian in her con­versation with Meilke, but ad­
rpg), 6-foot-3 center Lisa Oltmanns (4.5 ppg, 3.7 rpg), and guards Mary Majewski {6.2 ppg, 5.0 apg) and Jami Sloan 
(6.7 ppg). 
"Both teams are down right now, so tonight's game will come down to who wants it more," said Nowlin. "For us, it's getting to be a matter of confidence. We need to stay positive and remain focused on what we're doing, because ev­ery conference game is crucial." 

mits she criticized him for bringing in players that were not qualified for college studies. 
Tarkanian countered by say­ing his five-year graduation rate was 4 7 percent, much higher than the 21 percent rate UNLV had in a 1990 study. 
Sparks, considered a close ally of UNLV president Robert Maxson, said she questioned Meilke's motives. 
"It was obvious there were other people in the room," she said of the phone conversation. "He would ask a question, then go back to them, and then ask another question. 
"Now, Jerry's got them (Rebel players) against me, and it's all very unfair," Sparks said. "This is all part of a long, planned out effort to do away with the 
EARN SSSS FOR 
~!AlTERS. ~IAITRESSES AND FOOD SERVICE HELP NEEDED FOR .JP~' CATERING EVENTS FEBRUARY lOTH THRU FEBRUARY 16TH $5.10 PER HOUR 
VISIT THE LO~.'ER LEVEL OF SOUTH DINING HALL FOR ~lORE INFORMATION 
SPRING BREAK 
administration, and I'm part of it. But I plan on handling my part of it a little more maturely than slapping people's faces on their behinds." 
Tarkanian backers have ac­cused Maxson of orchestrating a drive to force the coach out of the Runnin' Rebels basketball program. T a r k a n i a n announced in June that he was resigning effective the end of the current season after photos were published of three former players with convicted sports fixer Richard Perry. 
Since then, the school's ath­letic department has been in a state of turmoil, with sides loyal to Tarkanian and Maxson sniping away at each other con­tinually. 

UJ?coming Events 
Lecture 

DR. HAIDAR ABDEL SHAFI 
Leader fllllle l'lllestiniaa Ddepioa to lbe MicWe East IUa: Talks ia Wasllin&taa 
"PROSPECTS FOR PEACE IN THE MIDDLE EAST" 
Friday, January 24, 1992 
2:30p.m. 
Washington HaD 
Cospoosond with tbe Law School and the Center for Civil and Human Rights 
.. 

~--~-----­Thursday, January 23, 1992 The Observer 
No. 7 Connecticut survives scare 

Huskies hold off Friars in OT; Rebels upset No. 15 Tide 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. (AP) ­Chris Smith scored 27 points and Scott Burrell added 25 as No. 7 Connecticut held Prov­idence without a field goal in overtime for a 97-86 victory Wednesday night. 
The Friars missed 13 shots in the extra period and managed just five points in remaining the only Big East yet to have a con­ference win this season. 
The Huskies (14-1, 5-1), who tied Villanova for frrst place in the Big East, were 11-for-16 from the free throw line in overtime, while Providence added to its overtime woes with a 5-for-9 effort from the free throw line. 
Mississippi 78, No. 15 Alabaman 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. -Joe Harvell scored 32 points as Mississippi beat No. 15 Alabama 78-77 on Wednesday night, the Crimson Tide's third 
ctPoinh1 loss. 
NOW PLAYING 
The Rebels (8-7, 1-3), the last Southeastern Conference team to win a league game this sea­son, took control early in the second half with a 21-4 run sparked by a wave of 3-point­ers. 
Harvell made three 3s and Keith Watkins and James Bailey had one each as Ole Miss erased a 35-30 deficit and took a 51-39 lead with 12:23 left in the game. 
No. 9 Arkansas 75, Florida 
62 

FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. -Todd Day became Arkansas' all-time leading scorer Wednesday night and the ninth-ranked Razor­backs held ofT Florida 75-62. 
Lee Mayberry and Oliver Miller combined for 27 second­half points for Arkansas (16-3, 5-1), which remained in first place in the Southeastern Conference's West Division, and the play of Florida's Stacey Poole, who got inside for 22 points, and Scott Stewart, who scored 13 of his 17 points in the second half. 
No.6 Ohio St. 72, Minnesota 
69 

COLUMBUS, Ohio -Jim Jackson scored 21 points, in­cluding four free throws in the final 29 seconds, as sixth­ranked Ohio State overcame a late 3-point flurry by Minnesota for a 72-69 victory Wednesday night, stretching the Buckeyes winning streak at St. John Arena to 28 in a row. 
Ohio State, struggling with its shooting all night, hit more free throws (2 5 of 31) than it did field goals (22 of 53 for 42 per­cent). 
Mark Baker added 15 points and Lawrence Funderburke 13 for Ohio State, which moved to 12-2 overall and 4-1 in the Big Ten Conference. 
AT THE RONKIN EDUCATIONAL GROUP OUR CLASS SIZES ARE LIMITED TO NO MORE THAN 10 STUDENTS PER CLASS. 
This example of personalized attention is just one of the reasons our classes are filling up fast. Call now to reserve a seat. 
• 
10 Students Per Class 

• 
100 Hours Of Live Instruction 


l:lONKIN 
• 
50 Hours Of Live Thtorial EDUCATIOMAL GROUP 

• 
National 800 Telephone Helpline 

• 
3 Computer-Scored Diagnostic Tests 

• 
Science Flash Cards 

• 
Materials Written By Ph.D.s & M.D.s 


WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
--~------~-~---­
page 17 

Indians prornise peaceful protests at Super Bowl 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -An American Indian leader said Wednesday he expects a· peaceful and dignified demonstration against the use of Indian mascots and nicknames when protesters gather at the Super Bowl Sunday. 
Clyde Beq.~court, a founder of the.• American Indian 
the Washington Qeds 
Movement. sJ;~.id he hunci n  . . .  pates··• aP,!  
othe..  rate  
outsi  
and duri .··· ... ...  e tp. .. ·.  

ButTa1o Bill$. .............. 
"We're going t<t..let the world know we're not going to toler· ate this.. kind of behavior,'! Bellecourt said. "John· Wayne is dead, and it's time fot this kind of racism to go with iC' 
The demonstration is to in-elude a rally and a one-mile march to the Metrodome, where tepees and a speaking area will be set up near one of the stadium's gates. The demonstration at the stadium is to start abo'Ut three hours before gametime. 
David Dobrotka. deputy police 
Mizzou 
continued from page 20 
Irish fell to Louisville, 84-81. Since then, they have gone 5-4 and have gained a great deal of experience. 
"The road games gave us a chance to come together as a 

Due to a university computer malfunction,DART was not available Tuesday and part of Wednesday. To offset any conveniences to students the DART period will extend 1 day to include Friday Jan. 24th. DART lines will be open through midnight on the 24th. 
Harold L. Pace Office of the Registrar 

protest be stopped. 
Dobrotka said his biggest 
concern is making sure the 
demonstration is peaceful. The 
city will have more than 350 
police officers on duty during 
an 18-hour period surrounding 
the game, he said. The NFL 
and several corporate 
sponsors also will have their 
own security officers. 
•···...... The protest will be similar to those AIM staged outside the Metrodome at the 1991 World Series between the Minnesota TWins. and the. Atlanta Braves. The protest is particularly aimed at the Redskins, which Bellecourt said is "one of the most racist and derogatory names in sports." 
Bellecourt's comments came one day before the first National Summit on Racism in Sports and the Media opens for a four-day run in Minneapolis. Bellecourt said he hopes the participants in the AIM-span­sored program will develop a national strategy on how to stop the use of Indian nick­names. 
AIM also has planned to protest in Minneapolis Friday at an NFL awards ceremony 
team," MacLeod said. "The players were able to get a feel for each other, and they devel­oped a lot of poise and mental toughness." 
Against Missouri, the Irish are going to have to use the ex­perience they gained on the road and play up to their po­tential on both ends of the court to leave the JACC with a victory. 
-
.... 
... 
,. 
~---­
... 
-
... 
oaQe 18 
Funeral for OSU player arranged 
LYNWOOD, Calif. (AP) ­Funeral services for Oregon State guard Earnest Killum will be held Saturday at Lynwood High School, where Killum starred. 
Killum died Monday at Daniel Freeman Memorial Hospital, three days after surrering a major stroke. He was 20. 
The Oregon State team will attend the services. It was anw nounced Tuesday that the Beavers' game against Washington State would be postponed to allow the team to go to the funeral. 
Killum sat out the 1990-91 season because of academic problems. After suffering a mild stroke last July, he had a blood clot removed from his left arm. 
He was cleared to return to the Oregon State team less than a month ago and av­eraged 8. 7 points in seven games. 
Dr. Carl Orfuss, a neurologist at Daniel Freeman who treated Killum, said that his death was not related to playing basketball. 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOWI 
DAYTONA BEACH ..~'104 
5 and 7 NIGHTS 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ··~'128 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT ·~'122 
2, 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH ..~.. '122 
7 NIGHTS 
FORT LAUDERDALE 
"""''1J6

7 NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND ....,sng 
5 AND l NIGHTS 
MUSTANG ISLAND I "M''12B 
PORT ARANSAS 
S AND 7 NIGHTS 
11th Annual celebrationI 

TOLL FIII!E INFORIIAnON & RESERVATIONS 
1·800·321·5911 
~~ 
MY GIRL PG 5:00 7:30 9:45 FATHER Of THE BRIDE PG 4:30 7:00 9:15 FREEJACK R 4:30 7:00 1:15 
HOUSES FOR RENT 92-93 YEAR Security Systems 4-8 Bedrooms Fully furnished KEGERATORS Security Systems 287-4989 

1he Observer 1hursday, January 23, 1992 
Women swimmers head to Northwestern for dual meet 
By JENNIFER MARTEN Williams won three events in Welsh. "It is one of the rapidly which we enjoy having on the Sports Writer the meet, including the 100-rising teams in the country and schedule because they are a yard butterfly, the 200 butterfly, they had an excellent recruiting good competitive team, they are 
After a successful weekend of and the 400 individual medley, year." a good school academically, and competition, the Notre Dame and senior diver Jenny Kipp The Wildcats also have an they are nearby in Chicago with women's swim team is headed captured the one-meter diving impressive history. In 1990, a beautiful pool," said Welsh. to Northwestern University to­honors. Northwestern finished second The meet will be another op­day to face the Wildcats in a Northwestern has, according in the Big 10 and tenth in the portunity for the Irish to pre­dual meet. the Notre Dame coach Tim country. Last year, they did not pare for the approaching 
Last year, the Irish fell to Welsh, a strong program. finish quite as high, but bad a Midwestern Collegiate Northwestern 119-176, winning "Northwestern will be an solid season. Conference and NCAA champi­four events. Senior Tanya enormous challen " said "Northwestern is a school meets. 
Spiegel Catalog Fashions 
off 

10-DAY ONLY EVENT 
AT CENTURY CENTER 
Save 60% off the original catalog prices ... on thousands of items! 
Find over $1 million in winter fashions ... including famous names 
Stock up on casual to career styles for women and men 
Here are just a few examples: Orig. Cat. After Price 60% off* Dress 79.90 31.96 Twill Pants 29.90 11.96 Jacket 44.90 17.96 
*Not including sales tax. All items will be ticketed with the original catalog prices. Savings will be taken at the register. 
BE THERE FIRST FOR THE BEST SELECTION! 


~----------­
Thursday, January 23, 1992 The Observer page 19 
CALVII AID HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON CALVII AJID HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 
"Hey! Hey! Hey! ... Who's the wiseguy that just turned down the thermostat?" 

SPEu.ER JAY HOSLER 
CROSSWORD CAMPUS 
Thursday 

4 p.m. Lecture, "A Geometric Approach to the Design of Algorithms," Roger Brockett, Harvard University. Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall. 
4:30 p.m. Mathematical Colloquium, "Inverse Problems in Partial Differential Equations," Hong-Ming Yin, University of Toronto. Room 226, Mathematics Building. Sponsored by Department of Mathematics. 
7:30 p.m. HPS Colloquium: "Explanations involving Rationality: The Possibility of Nomological Mentalistic Psychology," Peter Rail ton, Professor of Philosophy, University of Michigan. Library Lounge. 
LECTURES 
Thursday 

7:30 p.m. Faculty Recitals, Christine Rutledge, Viola and William Cerny, piano. Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. Sponsored by Music Department. 
8 p.m. & 10 p.m. Film, "Kindergarten Cop." CushingAuditorium. 
44 Cube root of 729 11 Bull fighters
ACROSS 45 "My boy" 12 Have a runny nose 1 -Street 46 College course 13 Badgerlike animals 7 Circumferences 47 Miss MacKenzie 15 Sniff 
13 Regulated system 49 Other: Sp. 20 Shore 
of diet 50 Mad scramble 24 Creator of Winston MEIU 14 The Four-52 Periodic table Smith 16 Doting on item 26 Theatre parts 17 r~eantime 54 Candidate for a 27 2,000 1 bs. ( 2 wds.) 18 London art gallery Kleenex 28 Word of warning 19 Car-window items 55 Madrid men 30 Attention~getter Notre Dame 21 "All About -" 56 Laundry appli-31 Thin fog 

22 Mr. Whitney ances :i3 Dull 23 Taboo 57-fiddle 34 Brilliancy 
Chicken Acropolis 

24 Pitcher Hershiser 36 American airline 25 Actress Hartman 37 Disdained 
Meat Ravioli 27 Lupino and Cantor DOWN 38 French law bodies Vegetable Lo Mein 28 Comical 1 Scott Joplin's city 39 NFL team 29 Fills to excess 2 Conceited person 40 A fool's­31 Does lawn work . 3 "Your majesty" 41 Stairway parts32 "Monopoly" square 4 French friend 44 More kind 34 Valley 5 Repair 47 Stare Saint Mary's35 Languid 6 Produce 48 Robert ­39 Brazilian seaport 7 Chinese, e.g. 49 Melville book 
Fillet Perch Parisienne 

41 Opening 8 The Wizard of-51 "The Bridge of San 42 "Midnight -" Park Luis -" Spaghetti and Meatballs 43 Goddess of dis-9 -in the belfry 53 Business letter Southern Chicken and Dumplings 
cord 10 British suffix abbreviation 
Sports 

Thursday, January 23, 1992 page 20 

Irish hoops squads face tough challenges Men home at last, host no. 13 Missouri 
By MIKE SCRUDATO team with a lot of good ath­will have to contend with six­Sports Writer letes," MacLeod commented. foot-nine Devon Crudup and "They play hard-nosed defense six-foot-eight Jeff Warren, who Notre Dame coach John and are a good rebounding will be playing his second game MacLeod will renew an old ac­team, which will occasionally back following a viral infection quaintance when the Irish re­show some half-or three-quar­and is still not 100 percent. The turn home to the Joyce ACC to ter court pressure." two have combined for 26.9 ppg take on Norm Stewart's 13th­The Tigers most effective and 16.3 rpg. Both LaPhonso ranked Missouri Tigers tonight weapon is All-American candi­Ellis and Keith Tower will have at 7:30p.m. date senior swingman Anthony to show the defensive form they 
MacLeod and Stewart entered Peeler, who is averaging 23.6 showed in the second half of the the Big Eight together in 1967, points and 6.6 rebounds per Irish's 69-63 win at Marquette when MacLeod started his head game. He has led his team in on Tuesday to win the battle in coaching career at Oklahoma scoring in 11 of its 14 games, the paint. and Stewart assumed the reigns including a season high 34 on "We are hoping the tenacious at Mizzou. Over the course of Saturday at Nebraska. Last defense we played the other six seasons, MacLeod's Sooners season against the Irish, Peeler night will carry over into this won eight of 14 games against had 25 points, five rebounds, game," Ellis said. the Tigers. five assists and four steals in Notre Dame is also hoping to 
"At Oklahoma, we had a great Mizzou's 84-54 win. crack the Missouri defense rivalry against Missouri, and we "Anthony Peeler is a great which has limited its opponents had a lot of great games against player, great finisher and a to a 31 percent field goal per­them," MacLeod said. "I have a great finalizer. He's a great centage. To do so, the Irish will lot of respect for Norm. He is a open court player with great need the hot hands of Bennett great coach and has always had quickness to the basket," ESPN and Damion Sweet, along with strong clubs." analyst Dick Vitale said. "They the inside scoring of Ellis, who 
This season's Missouri team is [Missouri] can't win without was named last week's National no exception. The Tigers have him. He's a PTPer, baby-a Player of the Week by Sports compiled a 12-2 record against Prime Time Player." Illustrated following his 31­some formidable opponents. Freshman Billy Taylor will point effort versus North They have wins over Arkansas, have the difficult task of con­Carolina. UNLV and Nebraska; their only taining Peeler. Tonight's game is the first losses came in overtime to "Billy is going to have to play home game for Notre Dame Kansas and on the road versus heads-up defense," Elmer since December 5, when the Memphis State. Bennett said. 
"Missouri is a tremendous Underneath Notre Dame (5-7) see MIZZOU I page 17 
Women look to turn around season at Butler 
By RENE FERRAN "It's not enough to come out "We're just trying to look at it Associate Sports Editor ready to play when there's as we're 1-1 in the conference, 8,000 people in the stands; and let's forget about the other After the Notre Dame we've got to come out and play stuff, look at the other games as women's basketball team had like that every game." learning experiences," said fought her third-ranked But instead, Notre Dame ex­senior Margaret Nowlin. "We Tennessee squad down to the perienced major growing pains had a hard time coming wire, Volunteers coach Pat as it adjusted to its more diffi­together offensively, but we're Summitt was asked to assess cult schedule (so far, the Irish still in reach of our NO's progress so far this sea-have faced five teams ranked in goals-winning the conference son. the AP poll) with a roster that and making the NCAA tourna­
"I think they're definitely included three freshmen and ment." moving in the right direction," five sophomores. "I don't think we took into said Summitt. "They certainly Still, while Notre Dame has enough account our rigorous played hard (today), and they played those ranked teams schedule," added McGraw. "We play well together. tough, its downfall has been in knew it was tough, and we 
"But the one thing I always part its lackadaisical play in thought we might get into a lit­ask when somebody asks me winnable games. tle hole early. But I think we that question is how do they Against a 1-6 Temple team, lost our confidence. play against other people. If the Irish shot 33 percent from "The players have to start they can play that way against the field and committed 22 believing in themselves and in everyone else, then they're def­turnovers in an 80-69 loss. And each other, and that we can win initely headed in the right during their recent five-game the conference." direction." homestand, they went 1-4, in­And the first step is tonight at 
The story of Notre Dame's 4-cluding defeats to LaSalle by Hinkle Fieldhouse in 10 season so far is that many 21, MCC rival Xavier by three, Indianapolis, as the Irish take times, it hasn't played that way and Louisville by 11. on Butler (5-10, 0-4). The against other opponents. In those five games, NO shot Bulldogs have struggled re­
"(Coach Summitt's) statement only 39 percent from the cently, losing their last five is very true," said Irish coach field-35 percent if the games without MCC preseason Muffet McGraw. "I think we've Tennessee game is Player of the Year Julie been up and down. It's easy to disregarded-including a VonDielingen (12. 7 ppg, 6.6 
get up for teams like Penn dismal 28 percent against the rpg). State, Stanford and Tennessee, Cardinals last Wednesday. VonDielingen missed four The Observer/John Bingham but we've got to be up for the But the Irish can see the light games with a chest injury, but Freshman Michelle Marciniak (23) is Notre Dame's second leading 
conference teams as well. at the end of the tunnel. see BUTLER I page 16 scorer, averaging 14.6 ppg. The Irish take on Butler tonight. 

SMC basketball travels to Rosary College tonight 
2:00 p.m. The Belles lost to
By CHRIS BACON what we are getting into, but 
nine games. Cromer explains 
Hope last season, 59-68, but isSports Writer we know that they are good." that part of the reason lies in looking forward to the rematch. 
Going into tonight's game, the the team's transition game. The Saint Mary's basketball Belles bring with them one of "In the three games we won, One added element to the 
we've averaged over 100 Hope matchup is sophomore
team will try to rebound from the nation's strongest offenses. Saturday's defeat to 21st­Saint Mary's ranks in the top 20 points," he said, "so when we've transfer Liz Vernesco. Vernesco 
won, we've won big. transfered from Hope at the end
ranked Lake Forest College for offensive scoring (79.4 
of last year, and is expected totonight at Rosary College (7-2). points per game), three-point "We're trying to work on our 
fast break. We've got to im­be a key in Saturday's game. 
Rosary, ranked sixth in the shooting (41 percent) and prove our transition game. WeMidwest Region, has beaten the three-point field goals made have got to get the ball, and "When a player is in this situ­Belles the last two years. Belles' (5.1 per game). 
then get it down court." ation, either she'll have the bestcoach Don Cromer expects this Three Saint Mary's players Cromer has other concerns game of the season, or she'll
year's matchup to be intense as are also ranked nationally. well. Senior captains Janet Libbing about tonight's matchup as have the worst," explained
·(Hill~

"I honestly don't know much (50 percent) and Catherine well. Libbing, the Belles' Cromer. about them," explained Cromer. Restovich (45 percent) are both Janet Libblng leading scorer, has been playing "Wheaton played them and they ranked among the nation's Despite the Belles' individual on a weak ankle and injured "It's going to be really hard 
because I know all the players(Wheaton) are the second best leaders in three-point field goal national rankings, Cromer is her thigh as well. However, and I'm close with the coaches," team I've seen this year. They percentage, while junior center concerned about the team's Libbing is expected to play tonight. said Vernesco. "It will be hard
only lost two games, one to Kim Holmes' 53 percent field­performance. At the midway Capital, who Is number one, goal shooting placed her in the point in the season, the Belles On Saturday, the Belles return playing a team when you are so and to Rosary. We don't know top 20. have won only three of their home to face Hope College at close to them." 
r 
I ­





