-~­
The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO.9 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Dinner discussion 
Eileen Deane and Diane Glennon (left to right), both seniors from Pangborn Hall, enjoy the atmosphere at the South Dining Hall after their move from Lewis Hall to Pangborn this fall. 

Freshmen attend computer workshop 
By ALEX MONTOYA Knowing how to use the News Writer Macintosh allows students to write more and constantly 
Notre Dame freshmen stu­make revisions, according to dents taking English Kline. Composition and Literature will "We are not teaching word now be required to attend a processing, we are teaching computer workshop to enhance students how to draft papers, their Macintosh skills for word make improvements, and create processing, according to better work," he said. Edward Kline, Freshman Freshman Charlie McMahon Writing Program director. said that computers help pro­
The program aims to help duce better work, so the work­freshmen become more familiar shops are a tremendous help. "I with Macintosh computers. need to have a basic under­
''I'm very enthusiastic about standing of Macintosh.so these the program, " said Kline. " We workshops will definitely be have critical literature stating helpful to me." that the quality of writing has Freshman Ryan Braun uses been dramatically better when an IBM in his room at St. students learn to use comput­Edward's but said he is also 
ers." willing to adapt to the Macintosh. "I think they're vi-
Damage to outdoor exhibit forces SMC to remove work 
By AMY GREENWOOD 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Damage to an outdoor exhibit at Saint Mary's ·forced the Moreau Gallery staff to remove the work from'the Le Mans Hall lawn, according to Richard Chlebek, director of security. 
Saint Mary's staff members discovered the damage to the smallest part of the work around 7:30 a.m. last Friday and "although no witnesses have been found, it appears that someone sat on the work or picked it up and dropped it," said Chlebek. Damage has been estimated at $5,000. 
The four piece work, de­scribed as "large boulder-like formations," was created by Chicago sculptor Maria Kaplan. The exhibit is part of this year's season at the Moreau Galleries. 
Doug Tyler, chairman of the Saint Mary's art department, said they removed Kaplan's work "Untitled" because of con­cern about further damage, but also due to the reactions of some individuals on campus. 
"It was intimated to the art department that the work was inappropriate," said Tyler. The sculpture will be moved to the Moreau Galleries for the dura­tion of the exhibition. 
Some students were opposed to the location of the exhibit. "In my opinion, the sculpture 
was so blatantly sexual that the lawn was not the appropriate place to display it," stated Jennifer Rasmussen of Holy Cross Hall. 
Monica Lanigan, Le Mans, does not object to the exhibit it­self, but she said she has some reservations. "I do not feel it has a place on the lawn be­cause it invades my right to chose whether or not to see it," said Lanigan. 
According to Tyler, only one person, a staff member, directly contacted the art department about the exhibit. 
Artists that exhibit works for the gallery season must partic­ipate in a selection process. The steps are as follows: 
•In 
the fall prior to the exhibi­tion season, artists submit a "proposal for exhibit" to the Art Gallery Board that consists of faculty members, students. and members of the community; 

•the 
Board initially sorts all the submissions to remove any that are not high caliber; 

•the 
Board then meets to make a final decision among the remaining submissions and then invites those artists se­lected to exhibit their work. 


According to Tyler, no exhibit has created such controversy in the 15 years that he has been at Saint Mary's. 


see EXHIBIT/page 4 
tal," he said. "When I write papers it allows me to revise as I go along, plus skip entire sec­tions if I get stuck. (The Macintosh) makes papers and resumes amazingly profes­sional." 
The program has received good reviews by students and faculty alike, Kline said. 
"I know this will work because in the summer we held these workshops for teachers, some who were scared to even touch the Macintosh, but they learned and succeeded and I know students will too," he said. "In the long run, this will be a super asset for everyone." 
The workshops which run through September and again in January, and are held in room 101 DeBartolo. 


ND program orients minority students 
By SARAH DORAN 
News Writer 

Notre Dame has instituted an academic enhancement pro­gram with the gift of funds from the Aetna Foundation that offers academic and social ori­entation to first year minority students intending to enter the Colleges of Arts and Letters or Business Administration. 
The Aetna Program was ini­tiated after the University real­ized that the attrition rate of first year minority students is unequal to that of their peers. It is a month-long program which just completed its second 
The Aetna Program takes place the summer before the participants' first year and is overseen by the Freshman Year of Studies, said Program Director and Freshman Advisor Angie Chamblee. "Its purpose is both to help students in greater need adjust to the campus in general and to help them get a head start," said Chamblee. 
"The program focuses on math and science because these two subjects are seen as the biggest challenges incoming liberal arts and business students face scholastically," said Chamblee. The students take non-credit courses in communication, math, study skills and problem solving while living on campus, she said. 
Minority students are invited to enter the program upon their acceptance. Fortunately, all those interested this year were accepted into the program, which accomodates 15 students. 
Alex Montoya, a freshman from Colombia, was one of the students who participated in the program this July. Montoya said he saw the program as "an amazing asset" which is mak­ing the transition to Notre Dame "very smooth-." 
According to Montoya, "The program taught us what to ex­pect as far as bookload, profes­sors and notes, and also helped us develop good time-man­agement skills. Overall, it put 

· us in good shape for what to expect." In addition to all of the aca­demic skills that Montoya learned from the Aetna pro­gram, he also gained quite a bit from it socially. "There are so many friends that I have re­tained from the program. We all help each other. The pro­gram was not so much of a comfort as a necessity," he said. The Aetna program is similar to a program that took place six years ago as the result of funding from the GTE Foundation. The GTE program concentrated on minority groups intending to focus on the study of science and engi-_ neering. In 1989, the Balfour Foundation donated funds to set up a similar science and engineering program, which can accomodate 15 students also. Currently, the Aetna pro­gram takes place in conjunction with the Balfour program. Funding for the Aetna pro­gram was designed for three years of use. The program, which just finished its second year, is hoping to find money to continue its existence, said Chamblee. 

Bosnian Serbs sign artillery agreement 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herzegovina (AP) -The leader of Bosnian Serbs agreed Wednesday to put his heavy weapons around Sarajevo un­der U.N. supervision, and North American Treaty Organization (NATO) announced it would send 6,000 troops to help guard relief columns. 
Serb militiamen also ended a 3 1/2-month siege of Gorazde, according to soldiers loyal to the Muslim-dominated gov­ernment. But a Bosnian military leader said: "The war here is not over." 
Despite the agreement by Serb leader Radovan Karadzic to allow U.N. monitoring of Serb artillery, mortar shells fell again on Sarajevo, and loyalist troops pressed on with their desperate attempt to break through Serb forces that have encircled the capital for five months. 
In Brussels, Belgium, the secretary general, Manfred Woerner, said the 16-member alliance would send troops to help guard relief for Bosnia. 
NATO sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the force would number 6,000. The United Nations already has 1,600 troops in Bosnia, most in Sarjevo. 
The developments came a day before a new round of peace talks sponsored by the United Nations and the European Community in Geneva. Apart from ending the war, a major aim of the talks is to ensure aid gets to the estimated 2 million people from Bosnia who are at risk from cold or lack of food this winter. 

U.N. 
officials said a U.S. C­130 transport that flew to Sarajevo on Wednesday was the 1,000th flight in a 2-month-old 

U.N. 
airlift for the city's es­timated 450,000 residents. 


Planes have flown in 12,000 tons of food, medicine and other supplies, but U.N. officials said that the onset of winter could slow the operation and that an extensive trucking link was needed. 
An estimated 35,000 people have died in the war in Bosnia, and as many as 2 million have fled their homes 
In Zagreb, the capital Qf neighboring Croatia, officials announced a tightening of re­strictions on Bosnian refugees who are flooding the country. More than 1,000 entered Croatia on Wednesday, joining 600,000 already here. 
On July 6, Zagreb closed its borders to all refugees except those bearing letters from friends or relatives guarantee­ing to care for them. As of Thursday not even people with such letters will be allowed to enter, said Adalbert Rebic, head of Croatia's refugee agency. 
Their war-damaged republic cannot afford to feed and house the Bosnians, Croatian officials say, and they do not want to aid the Serbs' "ethnic cleansing" through wholesale acceptance of refugees evicted from their homes. 
The fighting in Bosnia broke out after the republic's Muslims and Croats voted Feb. 29 for independence from Serbia­dominated Yugoslavia. Ethnic Serbs rebelled and have cap­tured about two-thirds of the republic's territory. 
Numerous cease-fire agree­ments have quickly collapsed, and earlier promises by the Serbs to have U.N. troops mon­itor heavy weapons have not slowed the fighting. 
Fred Eckhard, the U.N. spokesman in Sarajevo. said Karadzic signed the supervision agreement Wednesday after talks with U.N. military officers on the details of how Serb weapons would be monitored. 
U.N. soldiers began surveying 11 collection points in the city, and military observers were to move there Thursday or Friday, Eckhard said. 
He said the agreement cov­ered all Serb mortars 82mm and larger, all tanks with guns and all artillery pieces 1OOmm or larger in and around Sarajevo. 
page 2 Thursday, September 3, 1992
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 

FORECAST




Living up to 
Mostly sunny today . High in the middle to


Notre Dame's 
upper 70s. 
TEMPERATURES


standards 
City H L 
Anchorage 58 50 
Atlanta 86 64 

When Robert Kennedy 
made his presidential bid 
Bogota 57 46 Boston 81 66 Cairo 93 73 

in 1968, he was criticized 
for challenging the very 
Chicago 75 52 Cleveland 70 53 Dallas 91 73

political machine that had 
secured his government 
Detroit 72 55 
Indianapolis 7553 Jerusalem 91 64 

career. 
By opposing the 
London 61 52 Los Angeles 78 63 Madrid 86 57 

incumbent Lyndon 
Johnson, he was 
Minneapolis 78 55 Moscow 86 68 Nashville 86 62

expressing displeasure 
with the existing-------­
New Vorl< 83 67 Paris 64 57 Philadelphia 83 68 

Democratic party, therefore jeopardizing his 
own place in that network of power and 
Rome 81 66 
Seattle 76 58 
South Bend 76 58

support. 
Kennedy cherished the opinions of his political 
Tokyo 90 79 

associates, but his values were changing. As he 
Washington, D.C. 85 66 

witnessed America's cities burning, social intolerance reaching astronomical levels, and an administrative (and moral) fiasco unfolding in Vietnam, his commitment to the party was surpassed by a responsibility to the masses. He saw his party neglecting the·ideals and the 
TODAY AT AGLANCE

people it purported to serve; his campaign was, 



in part, an attempt to salvage pride in the name  
"democrat." "I have to do what feels natural to me," he said, "I can't be a hypocrite anymore." In many ways, we are part of a structure like Kennedy's. We must recognize that the University of Notre Dame, in many ways our "party" for the duration of our education here, needs us to keep its values in line. To ensure we will be proud of our association with this school, we must challenge it to live up to its reputation, and as individuals, live up to the high standards with which it presents us. I Notre Dame does not have the respect of its own students, we are all living as hypocrites of the  NATIONAL Cancer rates attributed to Chernobyl • NEW YORK -Thyroid cancer is occurring at 80 times the normal rate among some children exposed to radioactive fallout from the 1986 explosion at Chernobyl, says a World Health Organization report published today. "We confirmed the presence of this very aggressive disease which is occurring surprisingly early on," said Keith Haverstock, a radiation scientist at the organization's European Center for Environment and Health in Rome. Since the accident in 1986, 131  Boy killed while practicing kung-fu • FERNDALE, Mich.-A 12-year-old boy was fatally injured while practicing kung-fu kicking at a slumber party, authorities said. Derek McAllister was found dead Monday in his bed. The Oakland County Medical Examiner's office said he died after a blow from a fist or foot broke a bone in his skull and caused internal bleeding. McAllister was among four boys who were wrestling, kicking and playing at a nearby home late Sunday when he was hit in the head. A woman at the home who refused to give a name told the Detroit Free Press the other friends walked McAllister home after he complained of a headache.  
worst kind. If not out of love for this institution, then out  cases of the deadly cancer have been found in children in Belarus.  Trial looks at commercials in schools  
of concern for the world as a whole (the world we will enter and serve after graduation) we  Nursing home sued in patients deaths  • SAN JOSE, Calif.-A judge hearing a challenge to in­school television Channel One said Wednesday he may  
must vocalize our concerns. We cannot be  • PHILADELPHIA-Four nursing home officials have  appoint a classroom monitor to see if the program's  
complacent. expecting our "party"-with its  been charged with manslaughter after medical experts  commercials are -illegal. Superior Court Judge Jeremy  
ideals of faith, service and community-to attain  told a grand jury that two patients who succumbed to  Fogel concluded a hearing on the state education  
those ideals alone.  These are human qualities,  bedsores were not given given adequate food and  department's lawsuit against the program without  
and the human beings of the Notre Dame  water. Two of those charged were administrators and  reaching a decision. He said he was convinced the mere  
community must display them. Kennedy's expe­ two were nursing directors. Under state law, nursing  presence of commercials in school wasn't illegal. but  
rience proves that any institution under  home administrators are responsible for enforcing care  hadn't decided whether showing them as part of the  
pressure may stray from its intentions: it needs  and safety regulations. Medical experts told the grand  school day is coercive. What the judge eventually  
the people who comprise it to live them out.  jury that the bedridden women weren't given adequate  decides will be closely watched by districts elsewhere.  
Do not fall into the trap that Bruce Hornsby  food and water and weren't regularly repositioned to  About 7.1 million students in approximat~ly 12,000  
warned of when he said, "That's just the way it  prevent bedsores.  public and private schools in 45 states watch Channel  
is. Some things will never change." When you  One broadcasts each school day.  
see an administrative "fiasco" in progress,  
speak out. When you see your hometowns  

burning, and your peers committing acts o hatred and intolerance, do not turn away. There is no question that Notre Dame, like 
OF INTEREST

the Democratic machine of the 1960s, wields enormous influence in the outside world, and that after graduation, that network may very 
• All Graduate Students are encouraged to attend • Notre Dame Council on International Businesswell be used in our favor. 
a Welcome Picnic tonight. It will be held at the Development members will have their first
I urge you, however, not to submit to the Community Center for the Fischer & O'Hara-Grace organizational meeting on tonight at 7:45 p.m. in roomtemptation security dangles before you. Be Graduate Residences from 6-7:30 p.m. 118 Nieuwland. Summer interns will speak about their willing to sacrifice the comfortable future Notre internships abroad. All new members should attend. 
Dame and its alumni have guaranteed you. I 
• Undergraduate Schools Committee do not 

you utilize the proper channels for discussion 
forget about the two remaining training sessions. The • Sign ups for senior pictures end tomorrow. If convincingly and intelligently, Notre Dame will 
sessions are tonight at 8:30 p.m. in Hayes-Healy you have not signed up yet please make you respect your effort for change more than your 
Auditorium and Tuesday, September 8, at 7 p.m. in appointment at the LaFortune information desk by complaints and inaction. 
Hayes-Healy Auditorium. The sessions will be brief and tomorrow or you will not be included in the yearbook. And I think we all believe in this university 
attendance at one is mandatory. enough to say that it will not renege on its promise to support you. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not nesessarily those of 
MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
The Observer. 
YESTERDAY•s TRADING September 2 

• In 1911: Social Democrats in Berlin threatened to strike if
Today's Staff 

Germany went to war over Morocco. 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 

• In 1925: The Navy dirigible Shenandoah crashed in a Ohio

News Production 
237,866,160 +0.99 to 230.01 

storm, killing 14 crew members.
Alicia Reale Kathy Fong 

S&P COMPOSITE 

• In 1943: Allied troops crossed the Messina straits of Italy and 
Jennifer Habrych Cheryl Moser 
+1.91 to 417.98 invaded the mainland.
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 

• In 1952: In Little Rock, Ark., Eisenhower warned white

Sports Systems 
+24.05 to 3,290.31
UNCHANGED 

Southerners they could lose their rights by not protecting rights of
Jen Marten Harry Zembillas 
Negroes.
617 

GOLD 

• In 1981: In New York, Abbie Hoffman, a fugitive for six years,
-$2.30 to $339.40 oz gave himself up. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday 
through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 
SILVER 

Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
+50.022 to $3.692 oz rights are reserved. 

--~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 3 

Thursday, September 3, 1992 The Observer 



Tidal wave causes destruction 
MASACHAPA, Nicaragua (AP) -Splintered huts and buildings littered a 200-mile swath of Nicaragua's coast Wednesday following a tidal wave that killed at least 40 people and left thousands homeless. Dozens were missing, and rescue workers expected the death toll 
to rise. 

Open Friday for Lunch 
12~2 
Start your weekend off right with our great specials! 
The place to be for the 


''Class of '93'' 

Open all Fridays non~football weekends 

must be 21 
A major earthquake at sea caused a wall of water up to 30 feet high to sweep over most of the cpast. It submerged islands and rolled more than a half mile inland in some spots, de­stroying beachfront homes and hotels and scattering wrecked boats and cars. 
The surge of water sucked 
WHAT IF YOU 
DON'T GET INTO THE SCHOOL OF YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure. there are other schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and their chancesof being admitted into their first-choice schools. Fact is. noone has helped students score higher' 


ALUMNI

Ill 

SENIOR 


1717 E. South Bend Avenue South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 
~STANlEY H. KAPlAN
l Take Kaplan Or TakeYour Chances 
people and small buildings out to sea as it retreated. 
Nicaragua's government, al­ready suffering severe eco­nomic problems and a political crisis dividing the government, appealed for international aid. The U.S. Embassy in Managua released $25,000 to provide food, water and shelter to tidal wive victims. 
The United States froze $104 million in aid to Nicaragua in the spring over charges that President Violeta Chamorro had failed to curtail the power of security officials from the leftist Sandinista movement, which Mrs. Chamorro defeated in 1990 elections. 
"The sea took us by surprise. All of sudden, I was swimming inside my own home and all my furniture was floating around me," said Socorro Lopez, 47, who lost two grandchildren in Masachapa, a beach resort of about 2,000 people south of the capital, Managua. 
"This huge wave swallowed us, house and all. Now I'll never be able to bring my grandchildren back," the woman said, sobbing, as the bodies of the 4-year-old boy and 2-year-old girl were laid out nearby. 
Eight of the nine confirmed dead in Masachapa were chil­dren. 
Civil Defense Lt. Norma Zepeda Valdez said 40 people were known dead, 49 missing and 2,825 forced to flee. 
In Geneva, U.N. officials said the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies reported at least 64 dead. They said the United Nations would release $30,000 to buy urgent supplies. 
The missing included at least 
12 fisherm~n lost at sea near 
Masachapa, Red Cross officials 
said. 


The Observer/David Hungeling 

The Greek Revival 
Students in an architechture studio class put the finishing touches on a reconstructed Greek Temple of Hephaestus which will be on exhibition during the Greek Revival exhibit in October . 



LeMans to implement Card Access System 
By HEIDI DECKELMANN News Writer 
Le Mans Hall plans to install a Card Access System (CAS) to be implemented, "hopefully by the time students return from fall break," said Sherri Crahen, director of Residence Life. 
The CAS is being installed as a safety measure, according to Richard Chlebek, director of Security. 
Because Le Mans houses academic and administrative facilities as well as students, it is difficult to monitor visitors in the building, he said. 
After fall break, all doors leading to the residence hall area will be locked at all times and a card must be used to en­ter, according to Crahen. The elevator will run between the basement and first floor of the 
Taco Bell Presents 
AMERICA'S ROCK 'N' ROLL BAND 
See them two way\ELECTRIC... THEN ACOUSTIC!' 

building, and a punch code will be given to the residents in order to access the upper floors ofLe Mans. 
Chlebek said, "Although there have been no major problems in Le Mans, the system is being installed as an extended security measure." Ann Marie Jordan, Residence Hall Director of Le Mans, said she feels CAS will benefit the students by "controlling who has access to the building." 
Le Mans will still be goverened under the campus policies for visitation, according to Crahen. Male guests will be required to leave as ID at the front desk. 
"I am curious to see how the system will work in a building this size," said Jordan, "I would also like to see the students use the CAS responsibly." 
----------~--­

page 4 

Court rules MIT violated federal price-fixing ban 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) ­Massachusetts Institute of Technology violated a federal ban on price fixing by sharing financial aid information with the Ivy League colleges, a judge ruled Wednesday. 
Chief U.S. District Judge Louis 
C. Bechtle barred MIT from "any combination or conspir­acy" with other colleges in set­ting education prices. 
MIT President Charles M. Vest said the school would appeal. 
For more than 35 years, the Cambridge, Mass., university and the eight Ivy League schools -Harvard, Princeton, Pennsylvania, Yale, Brown, Columbia, Cornell and Dartmouth -belonged to the "Ivy Overlap Group." 
The members agreed to offer financial aid based solely on need, and they met yearly to set the formula used in deter­mining aid. 
If a student applied to more than one school in the group, the members came up with a consensus offer. Students then would have only academic fac­tors to consider in making their choice of schools. 
The Justice Department sued the schools. The trial was held in Philadelphia because the University of Pennsylvania was one of the original defendants, and was the closest to Washington, D.C., the Justice Department said. 
The other eight settled out of court but denied wrongdoing; only MIT refused to settle. 

The Observer Thursday, September 3, 1992 

The Observer/ Adriana Rodriguez 

Catching some Zs 

Duffy Jones, a sophomore from Fisher Hall, already tired out by academia, takes a break from his economics reading to catch up on some sleep. 




Andrew's homeless victims trickle into huge tent cities 
MIAMI (AP) -Hurricane An­drew's weary, homeless victims started trickling in to tent cities Wednesday, and were greeted like guests at a first-class hotel. Some of them enjoyed their first hot shower in days. 
Federal Housing Secretary Jack Kemp questioned the wis­dom of creating huge tent cities, however, and promised to begin rebuilding permanent homes in seven to 10 days. 
"With all due respect to the tremendous job the Army is doing to set up tent communi­ties, folks want to protect their castle, their palace, that which 
I ~ they own or control," Kemp said. Donated goods were being shipped into hurricane-battered Florida and Louisiana from across the country by individu­
Charleston mayor comments on Andrew 
CHARLESTON, S.C. (AP) ­The mayor of Charleston, which was devastated by Hurricane Hugo in 1989, said Wednesday the federal gov­ernment's response to Hurri­cane Andrew shows officials have learned little in the last three years. 
"It frustrates me we had such a huge disaster here and the lessons of it were clear and they just didn't want to learn those lessons," said Mayor Joseph Riley Jr. 
Hugo hit South Carolina head-on three years ago this month, causing $5.9 billion in damage and 29 deaths in the state. Overall, it caused at least $8.9 billion in damage and 85 deaths in the Carolinas and the Caribbean. 
Preliminary estimates of damage caused by Hurricane Andrew have ranged up to $30 billion, with Florida the hardest hit. 
Deaths directly or indirectly attributed to the storm in the 
Bahamas,  Florida  and  
Louisiana  totaled  39  on  
Wednesday.  
Before  Andrew  hit,  

Charleston officials were al­ready preparing to help, Riley said, and he added that the 
U.S. military should have been ready to do the same. 
"Why in the world wasn't there a convoy headed down to Florida rather than this pitiful statement of saying we have to wait and see what the state re­quests?" he asked. 

Riley, a Democrat, also was critical of President Bush, a Re­publican, who visited Florida a day after Andrew hit the state on Aug. 24 but didn't arrive in South Carolina until eight days after Hugo. 
"Obviously this is an election year," said Riley, a Democrat. "I don't think there is any doubt the president is very worried about Florida and wants to make sure whatever he does is good enough to carry the state." 
Florida has 25 of the 270 electoral votes needed to win the presidency. 
Homestead with his two children where showers had been connected. "We've got valet service." 
The five tent cities -two run by the Marines, two Army and one Navy -have room for 3,752 people, a tiny percentage of the tens of thousands left homeless by the ferocious hur­ricane that swept across south­ern Florida on Aug. 24. 
Only a few dozen people moved in Tuesday night and Wednesday -the first days the tent cities were available, although they weren't officially opening until Thursday. 
Still, they offered some of Andrew's victims a sign that the federal government, sharply criticized as sluggish and inefficient in the first days after the storm, was serious about 

als, community groups and corporations. 
But relief officials said elbow grease was the most-needed commodity. The Salvation Army said it needed volunteers to load and unload trucks, and In­terim Healthcare, a temporary agency for doctors and nurses, put out an urgent call for volunteers to go to Miami. 
Kate Hale, emergency opera­tions director of hard-hit Dade County, pleaded for volunteers to remove debris. But she also said the county had passed the worst of the crisis. 
"At this point it looks as though things are moving in an orderly, organized manner to­ward recovery and I truly can say we appear to be out of the emergency response phase and entering into the recovery phase," Hale said. 
Coretta Scott King, the widow of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., toured the poorest areas hurt by the hurricane and called for national assistance to rebuild the stricken communities. 
"Martin used to say America is a 10-day nation. When there's a crisis we get excited for about 10 days and then it's back to business as usual -I hope that this is not the case in South Florida and Louisiana," she said. 

The first arrivals at the tent camps were registered by the Red Cross, treated to a bag of toiletries and stationery, then escorted to their tents by lug­gage-toting men in uniform. 
"A Marine brought our stuff," marveled Ernest Guzman, who was settling into a camp in providing help. 
And, one day after Bush's second tour of the storm wreckage, three Cabinet-level secretaries were in the area. Transportation Secretary An­drew Card, who has been in charge of the federal relief ef­fort, was joined at a news con­ference by Kemp and Health and Human Services Secretary Louis Sullivan. 

If you see news happening, call The Observer at ?39-5303 and tell us.


Exhibit 
continued from page 1 
VICKI PAULA SUSI
"This incident forces the de­partment to reevaluate what we bring to campus and where we display it," said Tyler. "We will not change our standards, but continue to maintain exhibits that demonstrate new forms of expr.ession and challenge audiences to expand 
University Hair Styliststheir understanding of contemporary culture and the art which is created within it." 




Welcomes You Back! 
GREEI<S & CLUBS 
RAISE A COOL 
11000 IN JUST ONE WEEKI 

We are a full service salon and we carry a 
~LUS $1000 FOR11IE 
MEMBER WHO CAlLS! 


full line of Paul Mitchell and Nexxus products 
No obligation. No cosl You also get a FREE HEADPHONE RADIO just for calling 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 

239--5144 Hours: Mon ~ Fri 9 a.m. ~ 9 p.m. 
Indiana Auto Insurance 


Sat 9 a.m. ~ 4 p.m. 
Our good rates may 


call or stop in 

save )OJ money. Call f0raqoote9~5, 289~1993. Office near camp.~s. 

DEBBIE MARY 
------~~~ 

Thursday, September 3, 1992 The Observer page 5 

By PAUL PEARSON Associate News Editor 
The Notre Dame chapter of College Democrats criticized President Bush's education pol­icy Wednesday while praising Bill Clinton's proposals con­cerning student loans. 
"The cost of a good education affects all of us ... Education is fast becoming a privilege for the wealthy," said Andy Holmgren, president of the chapter. 
Bush's budget for the 1992-93 fiscal year calls for a $79 million cut in federal student aid, and will eliminate 400,000 Pell Grants, Holmgren said. "Education has become the norm of George Bush's privi­leged class," Holmgren said. 
Holmgren also said that, be­cause unemployment in the U.S. 
is at a nine-year high, it is tough for students to repay their student loans "when there are no jobs for them to get after graduation." 
Clinton has proposed elimi­nating the current student loan system in favor of a "national student trust fund program" in which all students will be eligi­ble for federal loans to be re­paid through money or through 

Quayle redefines campaign debate on family values 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) ­
Dan Quayle sought peace 
Wednesday with single mothers 
and others offended by his 
criticism of TV's Murphy Brown 
but derided Hollywood as 
captive to "a culture that 
flinches when it hears the word 
'morality."' 
Quayle's speech to Kansas 
City business leaders was billed 
for days as the vice president's 
attempt to redefine the cam­
paign debate over family values 
after he criticized the fictional 
Brown's having a child out of 
wedlock. 
But Quayle did little to define 
what he meant by family val­
ues, except to list Bush admin­
istration proposals he said 
would help families and to 
praise single mothers who 
"often do a tremendous job 
against the odds." 
Quayle held to his criticism 
that Hollywood and other media 
have veered from supporting 
traditional values, as he said 
they did when he was growing 
up in Huntington, Ind., to 
promoting "the views of an 
adversary culture. 
. This is a culture that flinches 
when it hears the word 
'morality' and lashes out when 
it is challenged to discuss 
values." 
For Republicans, the issue of family values has proven an effective theme to promote ed­-ucation and opportunity while 
Hillary Clinton speaks on family values 
BOSTON (AP) -Hillary Clinton, the prime Republican target for family values argu­ments, asked the campaigns on Wednesday to "put aside the finger-pointing" and focus on improving children's lives. 
"The important thing in our society right now is to value families," the wife of Democratic presidential ·nominee Bill Clinton said at 
the Children's Museum here. 
'What I would like to do is 
put aside the finger-pointing 
and the arguing and get down 
to the business of giving our 
children a better future," she 
said. 
Mrs. Clinton also dismissed 
suggestions she had been 
keeping a low profile in 
response to attacks against her 
personal views and legal 
writings at the Republican National Convention last month. 
But her emphasis Wednesday on families seemed designed to counter the criticisms that she was a "radical feminist" who wanted to lead the country with her husband. 
''I'm saying the same thing that I've said for 20 years, not just for 10 months," she said. 
During her museum visit, two youngsters led Mrs. Clinton across the "Kids Bridge," part of an interactive exhibit on racism, then presented her with books about multiculturalism. She 
later  played  with  several  
youngsters  at  a  bubble­ 
blowing exhibit.  

Mrs. Clinton said she doesn't want to "get caught in these arguments that some people would like to substitute for action" on family issues. 

''I'm concerned that our children are falling further behind because they're not getting the kind of help they need, in large measure because our families are stressed by the terrible economic challenges they're facing," she said. 
"That's what I want to work on and that's what I'm going to continue to speak out on." 
Mrs. Clinton spoke briefly with a group of social workers at the Children's Museum before going to the Park Plaza Hotel for a $250-a-plate luncheon with about 1,200 supporters. 
"When fathers can support their families and mothers feel secure, kids are better off," she told the social workers. "That is not a mystery." 
protecting families from the "I reject both of those views," a focus many swing voters scourges of crime and drugs. Quayle said. "'Family values' is viewed as divisive and diver­
Quayle critics and others who neither meaningless nor mean sionary. feature the theme in their polit­spirited." In his appeal to voters of­ical appeals, however, suggest it Polling for both parties has fended by his criticism of is code for dividing traditional shown Republicans suffering Murphy Brown, Quayle said, "I suburban families against sin­among single parents and have nothing but respect for gle-parent households most moderate swing voters of late. single mothers, yet Hollywood is often found in impoverished Some of the blame 'is assigned determined to use the power of inner cities, or against homo­to Quayle's attack on Murphy prime-time TV to twist my sexuals. Brown and to speeches at the words and suggest that I am 
Other critics say the phrase, Republican convention that hostile to single mothers." however appealing, is hollow contained thinly veiled attacks He also criticized Hollywood, rhetoric. on homosexuals, language and saying, "Hollywood is a 




TtiE POI~TE 

AT SAINT JOSEPH 


j'or graduate Students and j'acu{ty 

We afso liave furnished e~ecutive suites 
Office Hours: Monday-!Friday 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Saturday 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 

307 LaSa«e Jl.venue, Soutli 13eTU[, Inaiana 46617 (219) 287-2684 

stronghold of the adversary culture ... It is on the other side of the cultural divide from Huntington." 
Quayle spokesman David Beckwith said the vice president wanted to deliver the speech because the debate over family values had "come perilously close to careening off the track at times" and was diverting attention from the policy aspects of the issue. 
Hoping to nudge the debate back to more favorable ground, Quayle said children who live with single parents are five times more likely to live in poverty than those with both parents at home. 
He said children raised without fathers are more likely to drop out, "join gangs to break the law or to have babies out of wedlock." 
He repeated Bush calls to let parents use federal vouchers for child care and schools, in­cluding private and religious institutions, to crack down on deadbeat dads who duck child support and for greater home ownership by poor families. 
But he said sex education was the business of parents, not government. "Our public schools should not undermine parental authority by passing out condoms and calling this the answer to pregnancy and AIDS," Quayle said. 
Bush doles out election­year largess 
FORT WORTH, Texas {AP) ­
President Bush, using the 
power of his incumbency to 
dole out more election-season 
largess, on Wednesday an­
nounced nearly $2 billion in 
new aid for U.S. farmers and a 
$6 billion jet fighter sale that 
will largely benefit Texas. 
Bush, first campaigning in 
farm areas of South Dakota 
and west Texas, announced 
$755 million in disaster aid for 
farmers whose crops were 
devastated by Hurricane 
Andrew and a wide array of 
other natural disasters over the 
past two years. 
And, he announced a $1 bil­
lion package of federal export 
subsidies to help U.S. wheat 
farmers compete in world 
markets against heavily subsi­
dized European grain. 
Then, he stood in an airport 
hangar here to announce to 
General Dynamics employes he 
was authorizing the sale of 150 
F16 fighter jets to Taiwan. The 
planes are made in the com­
pany's plant here. 
Thursday, September 3, 1992
The Observer 

pa e 6 


\fou krww,itf )o ridiculouf, If I don't call rny parent5 every ~vnday at e)( act~ s. o'clock, the~ thihk I was kidnapped by ahen>. or ~omething. Ahyway, Ol'\e Sunday me atld M k we decide to take-off afld checkout th!rcify. ~0 VJe're hangin3. auf and I look. a+ rftY watch. 5 o'cloc/(. Alr19ht, So rny call1h9 card ahd r head dow" to the local pool hall. (Which I happen to know haf apayphot~e) And I te II the folks the Martians send 


-their bert.'' 


o matter where you happen to be, the 
for another. AT&T Calling Card can take you home. If you get your Calling Card now, your first 
It's also the least expensive way to call will be free:* And you'll become a member of call state-to-state on AT&T, when you can't dial AT&T Student Saver Plus, a program of products direct. With the new AT&T Call and Save Plan, and services that saves students time and money. you'll get special discounts on AT&T Calling Card calls: All of which makes the AT&T Calling Card out of And once you have your card, you'll never need to apply this world. 
1b get an A1lJ Calling Card for off-campus calling, call1800 654-0471 Ext. 850. 
© 1992 AM. •Pend:if18 FCC~. Please caJI a1N:M 800 OOJnber ir d&lls. ••\bu11 receM me S3 ATIT LD. Certlfia&e equiw.lent 10 2Z mimtes cl anlm-dim:t-dialed, cout·IO-oolst, night and Voftkmd call11'18 t.sed oo rates eftectM 6f8jl11.. You cooJd At~ nut IX' ~ millllt:S depmiing oo ..t.:re or .tam yw a.U. Offer limbed 10 one artiliate per studf!tt 





Business 

Thursday, September 3, 1992 page 7 
HPC hosts first vendor exhibit 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
Business Writer 
Hall Pr~sidents' Council (HPC) hos{ed itS . first vendor 
exhibit·--·.yest~rday ·w})itlh 
enabled vatlous····camp orgall.i~~tiO:Q$ to coUe _ fundtai~i;ing ·• ideas fr licensed vendors and local businesses,· according to HPC assistant coordinator Jennifer Schuster; 
Studentg.overnment and other campus dubs attended the exhibit and talked with representatives from businesses like Papa John's, Swiss Valley, Coca Cola, and som~ ¢<\~pt!s businesse$. Schuster.said._4" 




California crisis ends 
Gov. Wilson signs budget after 63-day delay 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP)­Gov. Pete Wilson signed an austere $57.6 billion budget Wednesday, ending 63 days of financial crisis in which the state had to pay its bills with IOUs for the first time since the Great Depression. 
The budget was delayed for weeks by bitter wrangling be­tween the Republican governor and the Democrat-controlled Legislature over how much to cut funds for education, welfare and local governments to erase a $10.7 billion deficit. 
The new budget reduces support for cities, counties and other local governments by $1.3 billion and cuts welfare grants by 5.8 percent. The welfare cuts amount to $38 a month for a mother with two children. 
Under a companion school spending bill the Legislature passed Wednesday, the same amount of money will be spent on pupils as last year, but by borrowing $973 million against future years. 
"The budget we have just signed is a very difficult budget, not only difficult in getting to my desk but very difficult in that it reflects the very trying times we are experiencing ­the worst economic times since the Great Depression," Wilson said. 
During the more than two months the state was without a budget, California issued more than $3.4 billion in IOUs to pay creditors and employees, the first time it had done so since 1936. 
As the stalemate dragged on most banks quit cashing the IOUs, the state's credit rating plunged and all funding for nursing homes caring for 2,500 severely-retarded people were cut off, a move that threatened to close the homes. 
State Controller Gray Davis said Wednesday the IOUs could continue for another week be­fore the state starts paying again with checks. The nursing homes that weren't getting anything will also get IOUs in the meantime, he said. 
Davis spokesman Edd Fong said some banks that stopped cashing IOUs agreed to honor them during the transition. Davis, meanwhile, said his of­fice would work around the clock to catch up on the state's bills. 
"My goal is to pay overdue bills as soon as possible so we can put this sorry chapter of California history behind us," he said in a statement. "Those facing the greatest hardship and need will be at the front of the payment line." 
Hours after Wilson signed the budget, government officials headed for San Francisco to ar­range a short-term $3.5 billion loan the state could use to pay bills. Fong said it would take two to six days to get the money. 

Negotiators make progress in GM strike 
DETROIT (AP) -Negotiators as were thousands of other made some progress in lengthy employees of plants that supply talks toward ending the Ohio parts to the closed assembly parts plant strike that has para-plants. lyzed assembly lines at seven Five other GM assembly General Motors factories, a plants in Michigan, Delaware, union official commented Canada and Mexico also could Wednesday. be closed if the strike continues. 
The GM assembly plant in The strike comes as GM plans Oklahoma City became the lat-to eliminate 60,000 hourly jobs est to close when it idled 5,000 by 1995 by closing 21 plants in workers Wednesday after run-the United States and Canada. ning out of such parts as metal Workers in Lordstown are an­brackets and body panels. The gry about the company's sub­parts are made at the Lord-contracting of skilled trades stown, Ohio, plant where 2,400 work. workers walked off their jobs Neither side at Lordstown seven days ago. was discussing details of talks, 
In all, more than 32,000 GM but for the first time since the assembly plant workers were strike began Aug. 27, negotia­idled by the Lordstown strike, tions were held for an extended 
Wheat farmers welcome new subsidy 
period, from 9 a.m. Tuesday to 
5:30 a.m. Wednesday. They resumed at about noon Wednesday. 
"There is progress but noth­ing I can quantify that specifi­cally," said UAW spokesman Reg McGhee. 
Dave Fascia, bargaining chairman of UAW Local1714 at the Lordstown plant, told the Detroit Free Press the pace of negotiations quickened after high-level meetings Monday night at GM headquarters in Detroit. 
He said that by Tuesday afternoon, the number of grievances that led to the strike had been reduced to 30 or 40 from 350. 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Wheat farmers on Wednesday wel­comed President Bush's an­nouncement that he is providing a $1 billion subsidy to push wheat sales overseas, but some said the money should have come sooner. 
"It's definitely good news," said Vince Peterson of U.S. Wheat Associates, a Washing­ton-based office that represents wheat farmers in international marketing. 
But he said Bush's an­nouncement that he is loosening up $1 billion from the Export Enhancement Program (EEP) to help wheat farmers "would have been better-placed for the industry if it had been a month or two ago." Bush made the announcement Wednesday during a campaign stop in South Dakota. 
Most U.S. wheat was har-_ vested in June and July and farmers have already sold much of it for less than $3 a bushel, down about a dollar from the year before. 
Steve Pringle, a spokesman 


Robert Dole 
for the Texas Farm Bureau, said producers in his state told him this week that they sold their wheat cheaper this year than in 1950. 
"If we get export sales going again that is going to strengthen the market and help the farmers put some money in their pockets," said Dan Meador of Oklahoma Wheat Growers. "Most of the state organizations like the Oklahoma Wheat Growers have been banging on the door of the White House trying to get them to use the EEP." 
The Export Enhancement Program is a government sub­sidy that allows exporters to lower the price of U.S. wheat on the world market. 
This accomplishes two goals: It provides American wheat farmers with more income and makes the United States more competitive with other wheat­growing countries of the world. 
Both Republican and Demo­cratic members of Congress from farm states have consis­tently pushed the Bush admin­istration to use EEP more ag­gressively as a weapon against countries who heavily subsidize their farm products. 
Senate Republican Leader Robert Dole of Kansas, the na­tion's biggest wheat-producing state, said the president's an­nouncement was "a strong convincing signal that the United States is going to be a real player on the international scene, staying competitive in the face of heavy foreign subsi­dies." 

AP File Photo California governor Pete Wilson signed a budget Wednesday, ending 
two months of a state financial crisis. 
Wilson signed the budget bill just 30 minutes after the Legis­lature gave final approval to the school spending bill, which Wilson insisted was essential to balance the budget with no new taxes. 
The long impasse was blasted by Mike Myslinski, spokesman for the 100,000 member Cali­fornia State Employees Associa­tion. 
"It's a lousy way to run Cali­fornia," he said. "State workers have been put through the 


Growth of income falls behind rate of inflation 
WASHINGTON (AP) going to turn around very Growth in Americans' income soon." lagged behind rising prices in Wednesday's figures repre­1991 for the frrst time in nine sent a revision of an earlier re­years, the government said port released in April. Wednesday. Differences among rich and 
"I think this very nicely re­poor states narrowed last year, flects the mood of the elec­although Connecticut retained torate," said economist Paul its 1990 ranking as the richest Getman of Regional Financial state, with per person average Associates in West Chester, Pa. income of $26,022. Mississippi "They're being squeezed very remained the poorest, with av­hard by rising taxes and rising erage income of $13,328. health costs on the one hand After Connecticut, the and by negligible increases in highest incomes were in New wages and salaries on the Jersey, $25,066; and other." Massachusetts, $23,003. 
The Commerce Department The low income states, after said per capita income grew Mississippi, were West Vir­just 2.4 percent to $19,092 last ginia, $14,301; Utah, $14,625; year, only slightly more than Arkansas, $14,629, and New half the 4.4 percent inflation Mexico, $14,644. rate registered by the depart­Most of the slowest growing ment's index for personal states were on or near either spending. the East or West coasts. That 
It was the smallest increase presented a mirror image of since 1961, during the the so-called "bicoastal econ­Kennedy administration, and omy" of the mid-1980s, which the first time since 1982, dur­saw low-income inland states ing the last recession, that in­lagging behind the boom in come growth fell behind infla­richer coastal states. tion. "Generally, the bigger the 
Adjusted for inflation, in­boom, the bigger the bust," comes declined 1. 9 percent Getman said. "A lot of it has to last year, the worst on record do with huge (1980s) boom on going back through 1970, the the coasts in construction, fi­latest year for which nancial services and defense comparable inflation-adjusted industries." numbers are available. Also, he said, income growth 
And it was the third year in a has been hurt in wealthy row that the figure was worse states by the reduction in than the year before. Inflation­interest rates, which has adjusted per capita incomes lowered the return on savings were unchanged in 1990, rose and other investments. 
1.4 percent in 1989 and 1. 9 Montana had the fastest in­percent in 1988. come growth, 7 percent, fol­
"One reason why the public lowed by Louisiana, 5.4 per­is in such an ornery mood is cent; Mississippi, 4.9 percent, that the pain has been building and Arkansas, Kentucky and for several years," Getman West Virginia, all 4.4 percent. said. "Income growth has been State figures were not adjusted sliding for a while and it's not for inflation. 
ringer with the IOUs and with the chaos hanging over their heads in terms of possible lay­offs." 
Wilson has made no mention of layoffs, and Myslinski said his organization was reviewing the budget to learn exactly what impact it would have on state departments and their employees. 
"We're trying to sift through the numbers to see what the hard numbers are," he said. 


Thursday, September 3, 1992 


The Observer 

page 8 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor ...........•...... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor .......•.... Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
T h u r s d a y 's V e r s e


Bookstore: A bum trip for students 
How does one begin to correct the abominable way the bookstore sells textbooks to students each semester? 
They, the bookstore, take the entire student body, some ten thousand in all-so many that to register them, the registrar's office spreads out under a dome of the Joyce ACC-and they, the bookstore, cram all those students into a single room one­twentieth the size of the ACC, if not smaller, and already three­quarters filled with overloaded bookshelves. 
They force those students to squeeze, squirm, crawl, and cram themselves past each other in search of books, and then to stand in lines that plug the aisles the length of the room and even double back on themselves. And they keep that room hot and airless. 
They do this repeatedly in a week's time, herding students into that room not once, but as often as possible, by imposing a restrictive no-refund policy that forces students, as the book­store signs warn, to "Go to Class First!" 
And so on Tuesday, Wednes­day, and Thursday, the students go to class, get assignments, and head again for the lines. 
Outsiders inspecting that in­humane and unconscionable merchandising could only con­clude that they're witnessing not merely disrespect for the students but outright contempt. 
And indeed, when I suggested to an employee that it would help to leave open the door of the back room, which had its window open, that's exactly what I got, a straight look of contempt and the words, "We don't want students back there." 
I went through the ordeal on Wednesday, the second class day, for my son, whose class schedule left him no time to get 
DOONESBURY 
I CAN ASSUR& 'rOU, /VIR.. 
Rl3[)Ff!!RN, THAT'S A 
T&R/?JF/{; R&A?RT. Wt'R& 
AU-~V HAPPY U/17H 

JliFFRe/'5 P!<(XJRl35S 
THIS YeAR. ... 
"' 6"'T'!'I'I'I 
Edward Vasta Guest Columnist 
needed books. It was about 3:30 in the afternoon. 
Every inch of space in that upper bookstore room was filled with sweating bodies, and more kept pouring in through the turnstile (after waiting in a line downstairs to get their accounts verified). 
Searching students squeezed past those standing in line, fill­ing the room with a sea of voices: "Excuse me." "Pardon me." "Sorry." "May I just ... " 
What kept me there was not only my son's need and the ten percent faculty discount I could expect if I bought those books personally (I'm paying for them either way, but to get the dis­count I had to buy them myself, according to the bookstore). 
I was kept there by the good will, the patience, and the gen­uine graciousness of the stu­dents. 
They strategized, of course-one buddy getting in line,, for example, while the other(s) ferreted out books-but they made friendship and po­liteness prevail. 
Most helpful to me were the encouraging remarks and calming good humor of a stu­dent in line behind me. He kept up a steady patter of encour­agement, and when a friend squirming past asked how long he'd been there, this student said cheerfully, "Oh, about fif­teen minutes," knowing damned well we'd been there at least forty-five minutes and still had a long way to go. 
His laid-back unflappability helped keep me from abandon­ing son, discount, and all by liberating myself from that concentration camp and bursting free into breathable air. 
I left vowing that this practice must stop. It might have been excusable tried once and then dropped, but to have knowingly and willing mounted such an unnecessary and inexcusable system year after year ... 
So let me begin by calling on the powers that be: the book­store management, the student government, the faculty senate, the university provost and vice­presidents, and the president himself. 
Do not rest, please, until this appalling imposition upon our students is banished from this campus. 
Let me also suggest that for NEXT SEMESTER, textbook orders be shipped by the book­sellers directly to the Joyce ACC, or to the Stepan Center, or to some other roomy place. 
During the first week of classes, let these books be set out in some spacious area and with at least double, perhaps triple, the cash registers now used. 
After the first week of classes, let the leftover texts be hauled 

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
To the soldier: 
Why don't you see me? I'm here. I exist, here I am. You're not alive. You don't hear the birds. Deaf. Blind too. Here I am. I want love. I want babies. I'd do anything for you. 
Just say the word and I'll blow myself up., 
By Glasha 


Send your unpublished poem to: Thursday's Verse 
P.O. Box Q, ND, IN, 46556 
Use fight song to show who the home team is 
to the bookstore for sales throughout the remainder of the semester. 
For the long term, separate the textbook division from the general book sales. 
Move it to another place with its own office near lots of flexible space. 
And as for those authorities who for years have inflicted this inhuman torture on our students, present each one with a map leading to Fatima Retreat House, where they may undertake the long, patient la­bor required to seek forgiveness through prayer and penance. 
Edward Vasta is a professor in Notre Dame's English de­partment. 
Dear Editor, 

I would like to comment on the Notre Dame Band tradition of playing the visitor's fight song during the pre-game show. I think that this is one of the class acts in college football. For the numerous away games that I have attended, I can re­member our team receiving the same welcome only once-the NO-USC game at Los Angeles in 1976. 
One school that particularly enjoys our band's tradition is Michigan. The NO-Michigan games that I attended at South Bend in 1988 and 1990 pointed this out vividly. 
The 5000 visitors sang their school song louder than the entire stadium of home team fans. My VCR replay also con­firmed this after I got home. 
I don't think we should give Michigan another opportunity to chip away at our home field advantage. And I do think we should send the words of our fight song into those NBC mi­crophones and out of people's TV sets like they haven't seen since the bouncing ball car­toons of the 1950's. 
On the day of the Michigan game in 1988, a banner near the bookstore said "Just say no to Bo!" 
Maybe for Sept. 12, 1992, the banner should read "Sing along with Mo!" 
Jack Sekula Class of 1972 Spring City, PA Sept. 1 , 1992 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

A REfOf(f"[R! HOW
l-ISTeN, 5/NC£ YOU'RE HeRE, 
I MJNOCR IF I a:JJWA5K 
THIV'S INT!iR5T/N6! I 

NOK/00/NG.'
THe
YOU A 1?1VOR. Wt UK& 7D 
RJ6HT. RCAlJtveRY PAGe 

AR8YOUON
P05T
HAV/3 PAR&NTS TAU< 70 7Ht 
A R&-OF THt POST.' 

L£AV8 OF 
aASS ABafT 7Hf!JR. JOBS. 
POF<T&R.. WHATf1UJt5R {)(} 

ABseNc:&OR 
YOUfAJ~\
I UNCJ&R5TANfJ >W'Rt AUJ?ITfl?.. 

SOM/3TH!NG 7
I
\ FOR~ 

\.,~~~~~ 
'The door is open. But the ride, it ain't free.' 
Bruce Springsteen 

Some back thoughts from Chi-town : QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 



Accent 

Thursday, September 3, 1992 page 9 
Passage to the past 
The Princess offers a relaxing way to see South Bend 
By LAURIE SESSA steamboat that he feels is necessary in Assistant Accent Editor his business. "You just don't get in and run. You've got to love the hell out of Looking for a way to take advantage them to keep them going -like a 
of the nice weather in South Bend? 
woman," he said. He gets a lot of pleasure out of doing Then head down to the St. Joseph his job, and often blows the horn atRiver for a relaxing steamboat ride children playing on the banks or onand a history lesson that cannot be the bridges. "A correspondence coursefound in any classroom. 
in waving is part of the captain's
For only $7 for adults and $4.50 for itinerary," Lackey said. 
children, anyone can take The Princess for an hour ride down the According to Lackey, a wide varietyriver with Captain Owen Lackey on of passengers come to take a ride, but any Tuesday through Sunday until on the public cruises, "it is very family mid-October. Group rates are also oriented. We also get a lot of school available at 10 percent off for groups classes." Lackey also mentioned that of 20 or more passengers. he would be teaching a navigation class on The Princess in the future. According to Lackey, The Princess is the only boat of its kind on the river The Princess is also available to today. The Princess in one among only charter for private functions for $400 four authentic power driven per two hours. In the past, groups steamboats in Indiana. Lackey said such as the University Food Services
The Princess offers rides to the public throughout the day until mid-October. 

that most of the other boats on the and Student Government groups from 
side of South Bend that most people do middle of the trade route between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have I
river are fishing boats or an 
not even know exists, according to South Bend, Elkhart and Benton
occasional motorboat, but sometimes chartered The Princess. "It works I
Lackey. "We enjoyed it very much. We Harbor in 1903. In the past it was a well for meetings or parties where you I"weeks at a time pass without seeing 
anyone on the river." are ashamed that we didn't come large center of commerce, and now want to get away from the world for a ­sooner" said South Bend residents "they have tried to put it back like it while." Lackey said. I Helen and Ervin Minkiekiewicc. was 100 years ago" said Lackey. 
The trip is a very tranquil and scenic 
The Princess passes under several I
ride down the river that separates The Princess is docked at the 100 
arch bridges, and by sitting in the Lackey has been running the Center in Mishawaka and leaves at 2 I
downtown South Bend and 
front with the captain, passengers can steamboat rides for eight years,· but p.m., 4 p.m., 7 p.m., and 9 p.m. WhenMishawaka. "You get the European 
learn much about the history of the The Princess itself was built in
canal feeling going through the middle docked at Howard Park in South Bend, 
river and the bridges that cross it. Michigan in 1957, and, according to The Princess runs at 2:45 p.m. and jof towns," said Lackey. 
Lackey, "it'll still be here when we're 7:45. Passengers should call 259-6080 The gate at Howard Park, where all gone." to find where the boat is docked on lThe ride offers a chance to see a 
The Princess docks, used to be in the Lackey commands a respect for the any particular day. I 
I I



Artistically speaking l 
1 
I I 
I
Several I I I contemporary I 
1 

artists display I 
I 
I

their work at 

I I 
Saint Mary's College I 
I 1 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH photographic paper. This Accent Writer process is done in an 
l 
uncontrolled environment, 

Artists and art lovers can free from the technological now view the current art advances in processing which exhibition opening Friday, have taken place over the past Sept. 4 at the Moreau 40 years. Galleries at Saint Mary's College. Recently, Shinn has 
Photographs by Barbara combined three-dimensional 


Shinn, drawings by Cheryl objects with the prints. to O'Neill. off the lobby of Moreau Hall, Paintings by John Keech O'Neill, and a series of O'Neill, another featured feature the work of and an exhibition of works by sculptural installations on the artist, specializes in large­Marcia Kaplan has been a contmeporary artists. There video artists, will be on campus grounds by Marcia scale drawings professional sculptor for more is no admission charge for any display from Jan. 22-Feb. 19. Kaplan are' the first featured interconnecting text with than 20 years. Her current of the exhibits during the events in this year's season. image. This medium allows exhibition which resembles season. Regular gallery hours are 
O'Neill to examine ideas large boulder-like formations Tuesday through Friday, 10 
Shinn, a New York City through their relationships in is in place in front of Le Mans Other exhibits during the a.m.-12 p.m. and 1-4 p.m.; resident, has been publicly space rather than time. Hall. year include sculpture by Saturday, 10 a.m.-12 p.m.; exhibiting her work since This is the second year that Vrinsley Tyrrell and fiber and Sunday, 1-3 p.m. 1985. Shinn works with the "The piece constructed for the Moreau Galleries have works by Lilian Tyrrell, Oct. 9 
light-sensitivity of the the Saint Mary's exhibit featured outdoor installations. through Nov. 6. A fiber show A reception for the artists, photographic paper in most of explores the silent space Last season's opening by Julie Tourtillotte, assistant open to the public and free of her work. between seeing and exhibition included the works professor of art at Saint charge, will open the exhibits 
The result is photographs perce1vmg, the void of of several artists at various Mary's and Frances on Friday; Sept. 4 from 7 to 9 which reflect the chaotic unnamed experience that sites around the College. McMahon, a Saint Mary's p.m. in the Moreau Gallery event of the exposure and feels like death, but in fact, is student, will take place from lobby. The exhibits run development of the the essence of life,"according The galleries, located just Dec. 4-Jan. 15. through Oct. 2. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
page 10 The Observer Thursday, September 3, 1992 

Need female vocalist to sing with  Dad needs 2 GAs for Stanford.  PLEASE  HELP:  HELP\! I Need 4-5 GAs for Nov.  PRESCHOOL REGISTRATION:  
NOTICES  Dissfunktion. For more info. call the Cliff at 283-3283  He's willing to pay big $$$. Call Chris R. at x1179.  My dad would like to see one Michigan game before I graduate  7 BC game. Thanks.  Please call x3799.  The Children's Community Co-op is now filling its morning classes  
and need tickets.  for ages 3-5 and also the Toddler  
For more information and  EXTERIOR PAINTERS  OKAY, I'M BEGGING... My parents  Call Mike283-1161  WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  Playschool. This is a co-op with a  
assistance regarding the  Experienced Student Painters  will pay big for Mich. tickets! $$$  GOOD NDIMICHIGAN GA's  growing popularity within the Notre  
investigation of financing, business  needed to paint South Bend area  Call #4419.  HELP! I need 1 Stanford stu. or GA  2773097  Dame Community.  
opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER  homes. Full or Part Time. AMERICA'S COLLEGE PAINTERS  ......NEED TIX .......  ticket! Please call MB at x4121  NEED 1 OR MORE STANFORD  Call for more info: Peg Moody 234-2320 (mornings).  
urges its readers to contact the  1 (800)626-6267  Need 2 student tix for Michigan.  -HEY YOU­ GAs. JIM 273-9059  
Better Business Bureau of  "painting America's homes coast to  Please call Ann at x2821.  Got any Mich Tix?  KIRKWOOD AND RYAN- 
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  coast"  I need some and am  NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN  You will never have more fun in a  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ Have 4 Penn St. GA  DESPERATE!  PLEASE  HELP.  CALL 1573  48 hour period. Ever. Two  
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 orS00-439-5313.  FOR RENT  Will trade lor 4 Mich GA Call Bo at 3502  Call Eric at x3691  ..TRADE**  Words ........ . ..You're Welcome.  
NEED 1 Mich tickl  TRADE ME YOUR TWO MICH-ND  ----Dx2.  
09/07  SHARP RIVERFRONT HOME­ WANTED: GA'S/STUDENT TIX  Will PAY and maybe trade a BYU.  GA'S FOR MY TWO NWSTRN-ND  
MATH TUTOR-All levels  FOOTBALL WKNDS/SHORT TERM  FOR ANY/ALL HOME GAMES­ #2331  GA'S AND LOTS OF MONEY.  U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2 U2  
271-1532-Joe  RENTALS. ALSO APT. &  MICH. A MUST! ALUMNI IN  -GREG X3844­ TIX FOR SALE Sept.15 277-4716  
BEDROOMS.257-9101.  DESPERATE NEED!\ 708-843­ WANTED: THREE MICHIGAN TIX  
.......Appalachian Seminar········  6947 .  C'MON, LOOK OUT FOR A  Will give First Born and CASH  Ryan-Is that a leash I see before  
Take part in an extraordinary  BED "N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  DOMER!  -JEFFERSON  X1422  for MICH Tix!!!  Even more for  me?  DL.  
opportunity to learn about yourself  219-291-7153  NEED TIX FOR MICH. & PENN  SEASON TIX!II  KAY x3489  
in the Appalachian region of  BADLY. 284-5410.  ..Hey Nancy, Shannon, Wendy,  
Kentucky and West Virginia over  Roommate needed for Oak Hill  HELP HELP HELP!  $$$  Need 2 GA Stanford tix.  $$$  Laura, Martin, Beth, Eileen, Anne,  
your fall break.  condo. All utilities included. Rent  De$$perately  I NEED A BOOK OF STUDENT  call Michele @3194.  JJ, and especially Christina and  
Applications now available at the negotiable. Call Jon or Mark at esc. 272-8563. Important information meeting on I September 8. . FOR SALE ILOST & FOUND I L..RE_N_T_A-19­.. C-0-LO_R_T_V_O_RV_C_R....... . TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE  $$eeking ticket$$ to. ALL home football game$$... Call Sean *2263 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $ IF YOU HAVE STUDENT TICKET  TICKETS -for my over the hill Alumni Brother. If you want to sell yours, CALL BLAS AT X2645. will trade 2 STAN GA for 2 PSU  NO Alum needs 2 reasonably priced Michigan tix. Please call (408)492­0660 X248 or (415)579-1432. 2 Northwestern tickets for sale Call Ellen x4294  Lisa: Thanx so much for the rockin' party and gifts on my 21st! It was worth the wait ... \ luv you aii!••Cathy JUDGEMENT DAY IS COMING!!! ••• CLUB 23 ••• TONIGHT! "Around the world" specials!  
ANDY we have found your Foxtail!  SEMESTER 69.95.  13" COLOR,  BOOKLETS YOU ARE WILLING  GA or STD x1645  
Call x4290 to claim (& plan to give  TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE  TO SELL PLEASE CALL:  N.D. ALUM NEEDS 4 MICH GA'S.  
detailed description!!!!)  SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY  MOLLY at 284-4377  Badly need 2 student or GA tickets  WILLING TO PAY OR TRADE ANY  HAPPY, HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY  
FREE.  COLLEGIATE RENTALS,  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  to Michigan. Will pay good money.  OTHER HOME GAME GA'S.  ERIN QUINN!!!I  
PLEASE HELP ME!!! I lost my  272-5959  $  x2714.  PLEASE CALL (312) 327-9853 ASK  Hope you're up to read this!  
great-grandmother's long silver  FOR PAUL OR LEAVE A  Love, Alicia, Ann, Carrie & Katy  
necklace with a Virgin Mary charm.  GA's For Purdue, Stanford, BYU,  I desperately need 1 Michigan  MESSAGE.  ****•••••••••••• *****************  
Great sentimental value. Reward.  and Boston College For Sale or  GA for someone coming all the  
#4419.  Trade For Michigan.  289-3273  way from California to see the  
SR TIX APPLICATION FOR SALE  game. Please call Maria at  LOTS of$$$!!!!!  THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS  
···Losr··Losr··Losr··  45 YARD LINE BEST OFFER  Need tix lor P.S.U.  X 2126 or 3219.  I want TICKET BOOKLETS!  Sept. 10  at  Stepan  8:00p.m.  
A SET OF KEYS WITH A SWISS  CALL MARTY X1165  Mich. Pur  call  #1756  Tix on sale at Lafortune Info desk.  
ARMY KNIFE ATTACHED. YOU  $$bob x3398  2 Student Football Ticket  $8 students· $12 Gen. Public  
CAN KEEP THE KNIFE IF YOU  Applications available. Best offer.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
REALLY WANT IT, BUT I NEED MY  Help! NEED 3 GAs lor  Michael 232-2533  
KEYS PLEASE!  BIKES FOR SALE: CANN, SHW,  PERDUE game!  I need Michigan student tickets and  Hey JAMES MICHAEL, how's them  
CALL JOE AT x3426  RALEIGH. X1803  Call Jessica@ *1325  !!1!1111!!!!!!!1!!!111!!!!!!!1111111111!!!!!1!!11!!!!!!11  2 BYU GA's.  hairballs?  
!I!  
- WANTED  IBM-compatible laptop, 16Mhz, 40 Mgb., Modem, weights 12pounds, BL big and clear screen + lots of  $$ Need Mich Tic $$ GA or Student -Name Your Price Call Jim 273-2969  I have MARRIED student tix book Need to sell Marty 1165  Call Molly 284-4377 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  SHORT ON CASH ?  
HELP!/ I!  software + carrying bag. $1500, call  Stop by MORRISSEY LOAN  
271-1627.  $$NEED 4 MICH GAs BADLY$$  1!1!11111!1!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!1!11!111!!!!1!!1!!!111!1!!  hey!  Mon.-Fri.: 11:30 · 12:30  
I REALLY need a ride home to  CALL AMY x2609  !!!!  i need 3 STANFORD g.a.'sl  1st Floor LaFortune  
CLEVELAND or surrounding area  Pontiac 86 Sunbird $2000  i have buck$!  O'Hara Lounge  
this FRIDAY, Sept. 4th.  287-6419 ask for damien  NEED 2 FOOTBALL TICKETS  111!!1111111111111!111!!1!1!1111!!1!1111!111!!!11!!1!1!!!  call katie x4907  
or stop by at CCMB308  (TOGETHER) FOR PENN STATE·  !!!  30 day loans up to $250  
Can leave anytime in the  NO GAME. PRICE NEGOTIABLE.  I Need 2 PENN ST GAs  @ 1% interest  
afternoon.  COMPUTER: Epson Equity dual  CALL BILL COLLECT DAY OR  I have MARRIED student tix book  x1212  
floppy, monitor, printer. $550 or  NIGHT 714-624-4010.  Need to sell Marty 1165  
Are you heading my way???  offer. Lv msg for David at 239-6963  Will trade 2 PURDUE, BC, or BYU  Make great money in your extra  
Can help with gas and tolls.  Help! Dave, that great guy from  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Ill!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  GAs for 2 PENN GAs.  time as a representative tor The  
DORM FRIDGE-$50-271-1532  Grace( last year) who got me many  !!!!  Call Dean@ 287-9663  Collegiate Investment Association.  
Call 284-5254  tickets lor Pitt. and Tenn.-WHERE  Minimal time required. Great  
FOR SALE:  ARE YOU? Call Liz x3783 or 2184  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  opportunity to make extra money  
NEEDED BYU and Michigan GA's.  ONE IMAGEWRITER II PRINTER  HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE  FOUR FRIENDS OF A PLAYER ON  and add good experience to your  
Please call 284-4308.  FOR APPLE OR MAC.  NEED STANFORD GA's, MICH &  AT 618-439-3338.  THE '88 TEAM NEED TIX FOR  resume. For details call (708) 533·  
BRAND NEW.  NEVER USED.  PSU Student tix.  Will Pay $$ or  MICHIGAN GAME.  THEY REALLY  0765.  
NEED a ride to Mich this weekend!  $150 OR BEST OFFER.  exchange livestock! Rich x3367  TICKET$$ TICKET$$ TICKETS$$  WANT THE TIX BAD.  
Anywhere from Kzoo north to  CALL TODD X1634  $$$1  DEPERATEL Y  N E E 0.  CALL 1075 AND ASK FOR MARK  MARGE  
Traverse City. Will pay gas. Please  WILL TRADE 2 MICH GAs FOR 2  6  G. A. 's  FOR  MICHIGAN$$$  OR QUAALUDE  
call 2331 ASAP!  PENN ST. GAs. MATT MICKLE  please, please, please, please  
DO U NEED PLANE TIX TO  (713) 332-6709.  CALL X2454  I NEED MICH TIX!III!  Need BC tix. student and GAs. Call  
SATURN OF MICHIANA HAS A  CHICAGO OR N.Y. FOR SEPT. 5?  I NEED MICH TIX!!I!  283-4271  
PART-TIME POSITION FOR A  CALL EILEEN 283-2773.  NEED PENN ST. TIX. GA'S ONLY.  HELP A SENIOR! Need 4-5 GEN  I NEED MICH TIX!!I!  
GREETER, TWO OR THREE DAYS  234-8306 OR 800-323-7687.  or STD tkt for U MICH.  Last Hope  Please help I!  Julie x4414  Feed me, Seymour...  
A WEEK, FROM 5:00-8:00 PM AND  Royal Typewriter, Acoustic Guitar,  lor family!  Tim @289-5196  
ALL DAY ON SATURDAY. APPLY  Women's Ross 1 0-speed, Gold  N.D. ALUM FROM MEXICO  NEED MICH. STUDENT­ 
IN PERSON, 4028 N. GRAPE  Neckiace & Bracelet, Women's  RETURNING FOR MICH GAME.  Will pay big bucks for NO -MICH  BILL  X2187  I hate it-it makes my boobs cringe!  
ROAD, MISHAWAKA, IN (258­ Sapphire Ring, Compaq Laptop  NEEDS TICKETS. PLEASE CALL  G.A. tix. Call Joe@ 287-4561.  
6333). SEE RICH OR JERRY.  Computer: 286.SLT, 40M HD, 5.6M  233-1296.  WILL TRADE 2 BYU STUD TIX  Get that butt out of the sink,  
RAM.  272-0812.  I NEED 3 MICHIGAN GA'S  FOR 1 MICH STUD TIX  it ain't no bidet..  
Pay$$$700 for 2 sets of GAs ftbl tix  BIG$$$$$ FOR STANFORD GA OR  DESPERATELY  PLEASE CALL  JARED X1656  
272-7034  ...TWO TICKETS FOR They Might  STUDENT TICKET. NEED ONE .  WILL PAY  To my dear roommate Colleen:  
Be Giants, face value... call  CALL DAVE AT 3213.$$$$$  CALL MIKE AT X 2209  DESPARATELY NEED 3 MICH TIX.  Hope all is well with whatever book  
HELP ME! HELP ME! HELP ME!  x4059-Thanks  WILL PAY TOP$. KJ X1302  you are reading and When are you  
Desperately need 2 MICHIGAN  WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD GA'S  WANT TO MAKE A BUCK?  going to cover our couch? p.s. Your  
Student tix for my wealthy alumni sisters. Will pay BIG BUCKS! Call  TICKETS  AND $$$$$ FOR THREE STANFORD GA'S IN ROW. CALL  I REALLY NEED MICH. TICKETS! WILL PUT DEPOSIT ON TICKET  Buying all GA's. Money no problem. Call Kyle at 234-9433.  are my favorite Cabbage Patch kidm just wait tillfall break in NY, it'll  
John X3349  
 DAVE AT 3213. MAKE EASY $$$  BOOK. CALL JON DEBARTOLO  be fun.???  
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&  AT x3587.  WANTED:  
HELP ME! HELP ME! HELP ME! Desperately need 2 MICHIGAN  NORTHWESTERN FOR SALE  FOR SALE: 4 U2 TICS SEPT 16 CHICAGO MIKE #1672  HELP!! Need 1 MICH GA  MICH. AND PURDUE TIX. CALL MIKE @1151 &LEAVE MSGE.  Hey Metz: When are we going to open our massage parlor? But  
Student tix for my wealthy alumni  FACE VALUE NOT ENDZONE  Call Scott at x4243  does it matter since I'll give you a  
sisters.  Will pay BIG BUCKS!  Call  MIKE 1161  NEED2  Good price  Wanted: MICH & PURD TIX. Call  massage anytime.  
John X3349  MICHIGAN GA'S  Mike@ 1151 & Leave Msg.  
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&  PLEASE PLEASE.  
MOTHER'S HELPER TO CARE  JOE #1112  I NEED MICH. GA'S.  &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&  Plum what is it about schlongs that  
FOR OUR 3-YEAR-OLD. MUST BE  CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303  make you laugh so hard during  
FRIENDLY, WITH EXPERIENCE  NORTHWESTERN TIX FOR SALE  NEED 1 Student Michigan ticket  BEFORE 4 PM,  NORTHWESTERN FOR SALE  Marriage and family. p.s. Who do  
AND OWN CAR. PART TIME  CALL JOE X1760  Call Chris at 283-2727  OR 272-3753 AFTER 5.  FACE VALUE NOT ENDZONE  you love?  
DAYS, SOME EVENINGS. 232­ SCALPERS NEED NOT CALL.  MIKE 1161  
2201.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  HELP! My little bro & his three friends are flying in from NY to see  NEED 2 MICH. GA'S. CALL 708­ &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&  Notre Dame Council on  
I NEED MICHIGAN STUDENT  the Mich game. I REALLY need to  251-4502 & LV. MESSAGE, OR  International Business Development  
BONNIE DOON  TICKETS and BYU GA's  get them 4 tkts. PLEASE call Julie  MARK RUST AT 708-982-1776.  is having an ALL Council Meeting  
HAS POSITIONS AVAILABLE  x4042  2 SENIOR (Sec. 29) FOOTBALL  TONIGHT@ 7:45pm 118 Niewland  
FOR SERVERS. COOKS  CALL MOLLY 284-4377  I NEED 2 GA MICHIGAN TICKETS  BOOKLETS for SALE · Best Offer  ALL WELCOME Ill  
AND FOUNTAIN  NEED 2 MICH. GA'S WILL BUY,  I HAVE MONEY!  Call: x1849  
Apply in person to:  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  OR TRADE FOR PURDUE, BYU,  CALL SUSAN 289-6485  To the studs in 704 Grace:  
52446 Dixie Way No., South Bend 4615 Grape Rd., Mishawaka  I NEED NO FOOTBALL  BOST. COLL. OR PENN ST. 232-0817  GA'S.  ALUM NEEDS TIX FOR MICH.,  PERSONAL  Today's sports section is perfect!  
TICKETS.272-6306  STANFORD, PENN ST. CALL DAN  
Responsible person seeking extra  $$$$Please! I!  H. C. student needs  (312) 868-0009.  FENCING CLUB: Meets 6:30-8:00,  I hope you are all have wonderful  
cash needed to deliver cakes.  TWO USC TICKETS FOR SALE  any football tickets. 271-8954$$$$  Fencing Gym, JACC. Beginners  days as well athe guys in 804 and  
Approx. 45 min/day. Must own car.  CALL AMY @ 272-6264  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  welcome. First meeting September  my friends on 10.  
Call Jim or Pat x3367 or x3360  I need three Mich GA's more  Will pay crazy cash for NO  1st. Equipment provided. $80 per  
desperately than everyone else in  -Michigan GA's. Call Paul at  semester.  With Love, MARTEN  
Need a ride to Mich this weekend!  .....Diane's big sis is coming out lor  this paper!!!  Liscence to spend  289-6648 .  
Anywhere from Kzoo to Traverse  the Michigan game-she is  ungodly amounts of money.  $$$MICHIGAN$$$  
City-will pay gas. Please call 2331  unbelievably cool. She lives lor NO  Contact Bill at 299-1845.  DESPERADO NEEDS Ml TICKET  WILL TRADE RESV. AT SB  To Peanut, E, Foss, Bethany, ate,  
ASAP  football, and will live for you if you  JUST ONE!! Student or GA.  HOLIDAY  Butler, Birdo, Kristen and Catherine:  
sell her a student or GA  HAVE 2 NORTHWEST GA's  Call Tim x4116  INN ON 9/11 & 9/12 FOR 2 GA'S.  
Need to see NO go tor it All. Need  ticket-please please please!!!!  NEED  MICH and/or  CALL 283-2454.  Have a nice day I  
App. Please call233-1463. Leave  Price negotiable. Call 4059.  WHOLE  STUD.  BOOKS  Stdt & married stdt Booklets For  
name, price, and yr.  Thanks!*****  288-1 027  -MARK  SALE  272-7034  Hey Niff  With Love, MARTEN  


The Observer 
{ 

MLB STANDINGS 
Chicago (McDowell 18·7) at Kansas City (Aquino 
5:10p.m. 2-3), 8:35p.m. Only game scheduled 
CAMPUS MlNISIRY... 
. .... CoNSIDERATIONS 

The Direction of our Lives 

During this past summer, I changed rooms and moved up two floors to the top of Morrissey Hall, into a suite of rooms designed for a "priest in residence." Previously, as an assistant rector, I had a nice, simple room, with plenty of windows, and a private bathroom off to one side. (Being given my own bathroom was for me something like personally experiencing a sixth proof for the existence of God.) 
Anyway, now this year I have been given two rooms with a bath off to the side, and I love it all very much. There's even more light than before, pouring through the windows ever since they cut down several diseased trees out in front of the building -and, happily, I still don't have to stand in line for the shower. On top of that, the University bought me a brand new couch that pulls out into a double bed for visitors and already several of my friends have availed themselves of my kind hospitality. It's fair to say that I'm really nicely set up. 
The only painful moments come when my friends from the dorm stop by to see this new pad of mine and start throwing around comments like "Wow, Father, you could put our little room in here four times," or "Gee, Father, nice room, I sure wish I had a vow of poverty like yours ... "or "Hey Father, nice clerical upgrade you pulled off here ... " 
It must only sound defensive (which it is) when I say that I didn't ask to move, and it doesn't seem to carry much wisdom when I tell a pair of cramped underclassmen "hang around 25 years, and you too can have a bigger room." 
They know I'm a vowed religious. And religious life is meant to give witness, and to point to transcendental values. teach, to Sometimes I bemoan how awkward that is. 
When I was ordained, people gave me an engraved Seiko watch and several gold-filled Cross pen and pencil sets -only the best for Father. When I decided not to wear the watch or use the pens because I thought they were too nice for a priest to have, all it did was make me late for my appointments and inevitably need to borrow pencils when I got there. To stop being a burden, I started wearing the watch. 
Catholics are not people whose tradition teaches them to hate life or be afraid of its joys. We love music and dancing, food and drink, picnics and processions. Nothing is better than gathering the clan for a party. But we are also people who want our lives to show clear priorities, clear choices in a world and culture where lives are often shallow and values often transient. 
Materialism is stealing the spirit from our world. Time-honored values of sharing and respect, of conversation and compassion, of family unity and 
Pet  GB  L 10  Streak  Home  Away  
.577  5-5  Lost  I  42-24  34-34  
.564  112  7-3  Won  5  36-29  39-29  
.530  5  3-7  Lost  1  41-26  29-36  
.470  13  z-5-5  Lost  4  30-36  33-35  
.466  13 112  6-4  Won  1  33-32  29-39  
.455  15  z-5-5  Lost  2  39-29  21-43  
.455  15  z-3-7  Lost  1  34-34  26-38  
Pet  GB  LtD  Streak  Home  Away  
.594  z-5-5  Lost  3  40-25  39-29  
.560  4 112  6-4  Won  4  39-29  36-30  
.527  9  z-5-5  Won  1  43-25  26-37  
.481  15  5-5  Lost  2  31·38  34-32  
.458  18  4-6  Won  3  36-27  24-44  
.451  19  4-6  Won  1  33-30  27-43  
.421  23  6-4  Won  2  33-36  23-41  
Pet  GB  LtO  Streak  Home  Away  
.576  z-7-3  Won  4  40-24  36-32  
.553  3  z-7-3  Won  4  34-31  39-28  
.515  8  z-7-3  Won  1  36-28  32-36  
.496  10 112  z-7-3  Lost  1  35-30  30-36  
.466  t4 112  z-7-3  Won  1  35-32  26-38  
.408  22  2-8  Lost  2  31-36  22-41  
Pet  GB  LtO  Streak  Home  Away  
.595  4-6  Lost  1  39-24  39-29  
.538  7112  z-3-7  Lost  7  41-22  30-39  
.530  8112  z-5-5  Won  1  40-28  30-34  
.470  t6 112  z-8-2  Won  2  37-29  25-41  
.447  t9 112  1-9  Lost  8  36-33  23-40  
.406  25  2-8  Lost  1  34-35  20-44  
Wednesday's  Games  
Late Game Not Included  
New York 6, Atlanta 5  
Chicago 5, Los Angeles 1  
Pittsburgh 3, San Francisco 2  
Montreal 7, Cincinnati 3  
San Diego 5, St. Louis 4  
Philadelphia at Houston (n)  
Thuraday'a  Gamea  

Montreal (Barnes 4-5) at Atlanta (Leibrandt 11-5), 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL American League 
BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Recalled Luis Mercedes, outfielder, lrom Rochester ol the International League. 
MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Activated Billy Spiers, shortstop, from the 60-day disabled list. 
MINNESOTA TWINS-Activated Paul Abbott, pitcher, from the 15-day disabled list. Nationel League 
ATLANTA BRAVES-Purchased the contract of Randy St. Claire, phcher, from Durham of the Carolina League. 
COLORADO ROCKIES-Named Jerry McMorris, chairman and chief executive officer; Paul Jacobs, general counsel for the team; and Kevin Jordan, acting chief financial officer. Announced resigna­tion of Steve Ehrhart, general partner. 
ST. LOUIS CARDINALS-Activated Frank DIPino, pitcher, from the 15-day disabled list. 
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Called up Kevin Rogers and Francisco Oliveras, phchers; John Patterson, infielder-outfielder; and Steve Decker, catcher, from Phoenix of the Pacllic Coast League. Purchased the contract of Larry Carter, pitcher, from Phoenix. Southern Leegue 
CHATTANOOGA LOOKOUTS-Placed Rusty Kilgo, phcher, on the 15-day disabled list. 
KNOXVILLE BLUE JAYS-Announced the team 
nickname has been changed to the Smokies. 
BASKETBALL 
Netlonaf B..ketbalf A..ocietion 
CLEVELAND CAVALIERS-Signed Mike Sanders, forward. Continental Ballketbalf Aaaociation 
GRAND RAPIDS HOOPS-Signed Herb Jones, 
guard, and Eric Taylor, forward. 
QUAD CITY THUNDER-Signed Reggie Fox, 
guard. 
RAPID CITY THRILLERS-Acquired the rights to 
Ron Ellis, forward, to co~lete an earlier trade In­
volving Jarvis Basnight, forward. 
FOOTBALL 
National Football Leegue 
BUFFALO BILLS-Agreed to terms with Keith 
McKeller, tight end, and Kirby Jackson, cornerback, 
on two-year contracts. 
CHICAGO BEARS-Signed William Perry, defen­
sive tackle, to a two-year contract. Placed Shaun 
Gayle, safety; Jim Thornton, tight end; and Anthony 

neighborly solidarity, are being overwhelmed everywhere by the consumer mentality and the pressures of individual survival. 
As followers of the simple man of Nazareth, we must stand in contrast to these trends. As educated, privileged Christians we need seek for ways to move our world to holier purpose. And those of us who profess publicly the vows of traditional religious life, we particularly need to be seen as clearer signs of contradiction to the sad values of our fragmented world and the false hopes of its dead-end promises. 
In the end, I guess we need not apologize for where we come from or be embarrassed by what we have been given. But we surely do need to speak more honestly with one another about what we are doing with our many gifts and where we are going with the direction of our lives. 
"' 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 


WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. Sept. 5  5:00p.m.  Rev. Robert Plasker, C.S.C.  
Sun. Sept. 6  lO:OOa.m.  Rev. John Pearson,C.S.C.  
11:45a.m.  Rev.Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C.  


Opening Meeting for those interested in Baptism and Full Communion with the Catholic Church 
4:00 p.m. Sunday September 13 

Opening Meeting for those interested in Confirmation in the Catholic Church 
5:00 p.m. Sunday September 13 
Morgan, wide receiver, on injured reserve. Recalled Glen Kozlowski, wide receiver, and Maurice Douglass, defensive baCk, from waivers. Claimed Jay Leeuwenburg, center, off waivers from the Kansas City Chiefs. 
CINCINNATI BENGALS-Signed Joe Walter, of­fensive lineman. Recalled Elston Ridgle, defensive lineman, from waivers. Claimed Tom Rayam, of­fensive lineman, off waivers from the Washington Redskins, and Mike Frier, defensive lineman, off waivers from the Seattle Seahawks. Placed Rooseve~ Nix, defensive lineman; Jeff Thomason, tight end; Mike Dingle, running back; and Mike Bartler, wide receiver, on injured reserve. 
DALLAS COWBOYS-Recalled Dale Hellestrae, center, from waivers. Placed Jimmy Smith, wide receiver, and Tony Hill, defensive end, on Injured reserve. 
GREEN BAY PACKERS-Signed Chris Holder, wide receiver; Sebastian Barrie. defensive end; and Brent Grllltth, offensive taCkle, to their devel­opmental squad. 
HOUSTON OILERS-Signed Craig Veasey, de­fensive lineman. 
INDIANAPOLIS COLTS--Claimed Tony Stargell, 
cornerback, ott waivers from the New York Jets. 
Released Ed Toner, fullback. 

KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-Signed Kani Kauahl, 
center. Placed Dlno Hackett, linebacker, on Injured 
reserve. 

LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Recalled Vince 
Evans, quarterback, from waivers. Waived DerriCk 
Gainer, running back. Signed Daryl Hobbs and Ty 
Montgomery, wide receivers; Ferric Collons, de­
fensive lineman; Kevin Smnh, tight end-running 
back; and Rich Stephens. offensive lineman, to the 
developmental squad. 

LOS ANGELES RAMS-Claimed Troy Stradford, 
running back, on waivers from the Kansas City 
Chiefs and John Stephen, linebacker, on waivers 
from the Green Bay Packers. Signed Brian 
Townsend and Thomas Homco, linebackers; 
Kelvin Harris, center; and Courtney Griffin, comer­
back, to the developmental squad. 
NEW YORK GIANTS-Signed Brian Allred and 
Michael Wright, cornerbacks; Ted Popson, tight 
end; Stacey Dillard, defensive lineman; and Jell 
Novak ottenslve tackle, to the developmental 
squad. 

NEW YORK JETS-Signed James Brown, tackle; 
Matt Wlllh, defensive tackle; Keo Coleman, linebacker; and Reggie Moore and Patrick Nelson, wide receivers, to the developmental squad. 
PHILADELPHIA EAGLES-Signed Eric Allen, cornerback. Signed Ephreslans Bartley, linebacker; Bill Hess, wide receiver; Brandon Houston; Curtis Mayfield, and Robert Presbury, of­fensive linemen, to the developmental squad. 
PHOENIX CARDINALS-Relinquished the rights to Bill Lewis, center, making him a tree agent. 
PITTSBURGH STEELERS-Traded Huey Richardson, linebacker, to the Washington Redsklns lor an undisclosed drah choice. Signed Michael Procter, quarterback, to the developmental squad. Claimed Solomon Wllcots, safety, on waivers from the M lnnesota Vikings. 
SAN DIEGO CHARGERS-Signed Johnnie Barnes and Robert Claiborne, wide receivers; Peter Tuipulotu. running back; Terry Beauford, of­fensive lineman; and Arthur Paul, defensive tackle, to the developmental squad. 
SEATTLE SEAHAWKS-Signed Brian Blades, wide receiver, to two one-year contracts. Claimed Brian Hunter, offensive lineman, on waivers from the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Recalled Brain Treggs, wide receiver, and Nesby Glasgow and Malcolm Frank, defensive backs, off waivers. Placed Bryan Millard, guard; Jacob Green and Michael Sinclair, defensive ends; and James Jefferson, defensive back, on Injured reserve. HOCKEY Netlonef Hockey League 
NHL-Signed a live-year television contract with 
ESPN. 
MINNESOTA NORTH STARS-Traded David 
Shaw, defenseman, to the Boston Bruins lor future 
considerations. 
NEW YORK RANGERS-Agreed to terms with 
John Vanbiesbrouck, goaltender. 
lnternatlonel Hockey L..gue 
PEORIA RIVERMEN-Signed Peter Kasowski, 
Darren Colbourne and Doug Wlckenheiser, tor­
wards. 
COLLEGE 
BOSTON COLLEGE-Promoted Tim Cohane to 
men's associate basketball coach. 
BROCKPORT STATE-Named Ed Gonzalez 
women's tennis coach. 
CENTRE-Named Jo Lay field hockey coach and 
Steve Cherry, Mike Jackson, Tim McDaniel and 
David Robinson men's assistant football coaches. 
l 
I 
j 
I 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East Divlalon 
Toronto 
Baltimore 
Milwaukee 
Detroit 
New York 
Boston 
Cleveland 
Weal Division 
Oakland 
Minnesota 
Chicago 
Texas 
Kansascny 
Cal~omia 
Seattle 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Eaat Division 
Pittsburgh 
Montreal 
Chicago 
St. Louis 
New York 
Philadelphia 
Weal Dlvlaion 
Atlanta I 
Cincinnati 
San Diego 
Houston 
San Francisco 
Los Angeles w L 76 58 75 58 70 62 63 71 62 71 60 72 60 72 
w L 79 54 75 59 69 62 65 70 60 71 60 73 56 77 
w L 76 56 73 59 68 64 65 66 61 70 53 77 
W L 
7 8 53 71 61 70 62 62 70 59 73 54 79 

z-denotes first oame was a win. Wednesdsy'e Gamea 
Late Games Not lnduded Minnesota 4. Detroit 2 Ba~imore 2, Oakland 1, 10 innings 
Chicago 3, Toronto 2 New York at Milwaukee (n) Texas at Kansas Cny (n) Boston at Seattle (n) Cleveland at California (n) 
Thuraday'a Game 
, . 
page 12 The Observer Thursday, September 3, 1992 

Coleman loses two games for shoving Torborg 
' ~ 
, 
I ' 
' 
I ' 
r 
' 
I' 
I ~ 
f 
I 
,I 
I f 
I 
! I i r I 
I 
t 
J 
I 
t
' 
' 
I 
f 
, r ' 
f 
. ( 

NEW YORK (AP) -Vince Coleman's two-game suspen­sion for shoving manager Jeff Torborg on Tuesday night is only the latest episode in the New York Mets outfielder's dis­astrous season. 
It began in spring training when his name surfaced in a rape allegation and continued with a series of injuries that limited him to only 55 of the team's first 130 games. 
He also faces a possible sus­pension by the Nat\onal League for making contact with home plate umpire Gary Darling just before his confrontation with his manager. 
Coleman pushed Torborg when he tried to separate him from Darling, who had ejected Coleman for arguing a checked­swing third-strike call in the second inning of the Mets' 4-1 loss to Atlanta. 
"All I could see is a lengthy suspension coming up if it got ugly, so I pulled him away and he turned on me," Torborg said Wednesday. "It's unfortunate ... just another part of a very strange year." 
The league was studying the incident, NL spokeswoman Katy Feeney said. The Major League Baseball Players Association said it will file a grievance challenging the team's two-day ban, which will cost Coleman $31,868.13. 
Following the incident, 
Torborg confronted Coleman in the clubhouse. 
"Some guys would walk away from something like this," Torborg said. "I chose to go into the clubhouse. I wanted to settle it immediately. It isn't something I'll forget easily, but I won't change his status as a player. I said what I had to say and I did what I had to do. Now it's up to him. I'm not the en­emy. 
"''m going to sit down with him when he rejoins us in Cincinnati on Friday and tell him this is the way it is. He has to act professionally." 
Coleman and his agent, Richmond Bry, were not avail­able for comment Wednesday. 
"I don't have to worry about him," Coleman said Tuesday night. "It happened, it's his call, his judgment. He's the manager. I thought Jeff should have argued with the umpire instead of me. He didn't do that. I told Jeff to argue with him." 
The grievance would not stop a suspension, but it could get Coleman back the withheld money. If the case goes to a hearing, it would be decided by arbitrator George Nicolau. 
"We're going to file a grievance, but nothing is going to be filed today," Michael Weiner, assistant general counsel of the Major League Baseball Players Association, said Wednesday. "We want to see if there is league action. But with respect to the club action, a grievance will be filed." 
Coleman, hitting .273 with 18 steals, has two seasons remain­ing on the $11.95 million, four­year deal he signed with the Mets as a free agent prior to the 
valuable because it offered him the opportunity to experiment 
"It was like class-A ball with college all-stars, but more re­laxed," said Michalak. "It helped me to develop my inside fastball. Before, I was afraid of making a mistake." 
The leagues provided much more than an opportunity to develop new skills. 
"After playing with these guys, you don't see them as opponents. You see them aE people. I developed some grea1 friendships," said Michalak. · 
r··-·---------------------·-·--------··------­
New for '92 
Play like a Champion 
J'oday 

!Spirit Towelsi 
! ! ! Catch the spirtt and own a piece of history !i e same tme. AM.JST have item! 
i To get ywrs just cmtact any rnerrtJer of ! S. A. R. G. a 
j '\):~~ Student Alurm1 Rtl1t1on1 Group ,f~~ ! 
; 'ii Also available at the Oo ! Alumni Office-Main Building ! ·-··-··-··-··-··--·-··--·-··-··-··-··-··-·---·-! 

1991 season. He'll make $5 million over the next two years, making a trade unlikely. 
"It was an unhappy sequence of events," Mets general man­ager AI Harazin said Tuesday night. "The way I understand it, Coleman was insubordinate." 
It was the second time in three days that Coleman was ejected for arguing a third strike. He was tossed Sunday night in the second inning by home plate umpire Bruce Froemming. 
Coleman also was ejected for arguing a third strike during a rehabilitation assignment with the St. Lucie Mets of the Class-A Florida State League. Last season, he got into an argument with Mets coach Mike Cubbage in San Diego after Cubbage told the outfielder he was taking batting practice out of turn. 
Coleman, who led the NL in stolen bases six consecutive seasons while with St. Louis, has only 55 in two seasons with the Mets. 
Hamstring injuries limited him to 72 games last year. He has been sidelined this season with various leg injuries and a pulled muscle in his rib 

Summer 
continued from page 16 
Failla gained something im­portant from his summer league experience. 
"I got more confidence," said Failla. "Playing there puts you more at ease with your ability." 
Two other Irish players joined Failla in the Cape Cod League. Sophomore catcher Bob Lisanti played with Failla for the Brewster Whitecaps while junior pitcher Tom Price played for the league champion Chatham Xs. 
Playing in the Central Illinois Collegiate Baseball League were seniors Alan Walania and Chris Michalak, junior Matt Haas, and sophomores Steve Verduzco and Craig DeSensi. Walania received Pitcher of the Year honors in the league with 
a .082 ERA for the Champaign County Colts. 
Michalak, who lead his Danville team to the league championship by going unde­feated in six decisions felt the summer league was extremely 


DuBose 
continued from page 16 
of the Western Washington Notre Dame Alumni Club, and his wife is a former Notre Dame admissions officer. 
A friendship developed long before Notre Dame recruiters called, and the Courtneys named DuBose as godfather to their newborn child, DuBose said. 
"No one will ever be able to understand how close we are," he said. "You just can't put a price tag on that friendship." 
The NCAA agreed, concluding in a statement that "it does not appear that the relationship oc­curred or that the benefits were provided for athletics reasons." 
"I think they're making a mountain out of a molehill," Courtney told the South Bend Tribune. 
Athletic director Dick Rosenthal could shed no light on who tipped the NCAA to the loan. Rosenthal and the NCAA said DuBose cooperated fully during the investigation. 


FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 ' 9:45 
Fulbria"ht Competition 

1993-1994 Seniors interested in Pursuing Graduate Study Abroad are invited to an informational meeting with advisor, John Welle (7204) on Thursday, September 3rd at 

Ill 
ALUMNI 
SENIOR 






~CLUB 
Thursday is 


Cup Night •' 
You may have missed last Thursday ... Don't miss this one! The place to be for the 
7:15 p.m.in the 

uclass of '93" 
must be 21


Center for Social Concerns 

-----------------------------------------------------------~--------~~--------------~---------------------------------~ 
Thursday, September 3, 1992 The Observer 
page 13 


Lend I needs five sets to advance to third round 
It is a quieter Open this year 
NEW YORK (AP) -Once a noisy, raucous place that drove players to distraction, the National Tennis Center is un­dergoing an image transplant. 
Welcome to the happy-go­lucky U.S. Open, a kinder, gentler tournament where this year's logo ought to be a smiley face. 
Now understand, this is a place where planes once zoomed overhead perilously close, it seemed, to the action, a place where fans often ignore the chair umpire's plea "Silence, please," a place player Kevin Curren once suggested bombing into oblivion. 
The planes are gone, their flight patterns changed for the second straight year at the be­hest of Mayor David Dinkins, a tennis enthusiast. 
The fans remain the fans. Andre Agassi smiles at the memory of being told, "Go get a job, you bum." Was he upset? No way. 
"''m trying to be as diplomatic about this as possible," he said. 
Bring this ad with your valid college ID and receive an additional 15°/o off the already reduced price of our barn jacket.~' 


Stefan Edberg, shown here at the Masters, won his second round match at the U.S. Open with a 7-5,7-5, 6-2 win over Luis Mattar. 
"They are just really enthusias­ and tossed like so  much red  
tic in the New York way."  meat to Martina Navratilova in  
The visitors would be greeted  the first round.  
warmly. There are, you see, no  Stafford laughed her way  
sneers and no jeers here. Just  through three sets, coming  
grins all around. Win or lose,  close to upsetting the Grand  
everybody is happy to be here.  Dame of women's tennis. She  
Nowhere was that more obvi­ laughed when she made points  
ous than with Shaun Stafford,  and she laughed when she  
ranked No. 160 in the world  missed points.  


Edberg, Chang have easier time 
NEW YORK (AP) -Ivan Lend! offered, then took back, the best 40th birthday present Jimmy Connors could have wanted at the U.S. Open. 
Nothing would have pleased Connors more than taking the stadium court Wednesday night against Brazil's Jaime Oncins after a first-round loss by Lend!, seeded to meet the win­ner in the second round. 
Lend! did his best, or worst, to fulfill that birthday wish by playing nearly 4 1/2 hours against another Jaime, Peru's Jaime Yzaga, before winning 6­7 (2-7), 6-1, 7-5, 4-6, 6-3. Lend! stretched out the agony, failing on four match points in the last two games, until he clinched it with his 17th ace. 
The long match briefly de­layed the night session, but Jennifer Capriati didn't make the crowd wait much longer than necessary for Connors as she rushed past Sandrine Testud 6-2, 6-3. 
A loss by Lend! would have meant a seedless path for Connors to at least the fourth round, similar to the route he took a year ago in his dramatic surge to the semifinals. 
Stephan Edberg, all of 26, shuddered at the thought of another 14 years on the nonstop tour after he began defense of his U.S. Open title Wednesday with a smooth 7-5, 7-5, 6-2 victory over Luiz Mattar. 
"No, I don't think I will be playing at that stage," Edberg said. "He is very exceptional. He has been lucky, hasn't had too many injuries. He has a very light body, and he has been able to keep going, having the motivation. I don't think I can. It would be too tough." 
Seles, the women's defending 
champion and top seed, 
reached the third round by 
beating NCAA champion Lisa 
Raymond, 7-5, 6-0, then smiled 
about the notion of playing to 
40, a lifetime away. 

Chang, 20 years old and al­ready a pro for five years, _couldn't imagine sticking around another 20 years. 
"I honestly feel that it would 
be· difficult," said Chang, the No. 4 seed who beat Ellis Ferreira 6-3, 6-4, 7-6 (7-1). "When Jimmy was 20, the game was not quite as intense. I don't think they played as many tournaments back then. I think now players put more demands on their bodies and minds." 
Lend!, 32, already is on ttie decline and growing weary of the grind as his family expands with three daughters in the past two years. 
Only Navratilova, a month shy of 36, still has that youthful enthusiasm and love of the game that could keep her a force for four more years. 
"He feels like he has got noth­ing to lose now. Every match he wins, that is big. He just goes 
•
out there and enjoys himself," Edberg said of Connors. 
Connors' match was his 114th match at the Open, one more match than Chris Evert played in her 19 years here. Connors, a five-time Open champion, is the only player to win it on three different surfaces grass, clay and hard courts. 
"It is a different thing for him to go out there than me," Edberg said. "I have more pressure because people expect me to win, and he has to have the crowd behind him." 
Some players think Connors got preferential treatment last year at the Open, being as­signed the featured night matches instead of playing in the heat of the afternoon. This year, he's starting off the same way, but Edberg, for one, doesn't mind. 
"I think he deserves it," Edberg said. "He has been around long enough. Obviously, they are looking to put him at the best time, like playing tonight. He is always going to have a special care, and that is quite normal. It would happen anywhere, I think, and especially here." 
In other matches Wednesday, Gabriela Sabatini, the women's No. 4 seed, reached the third round 6-0, 6-4 over Julie Halard, and Mary Joe Fernandez, No.7, won 3-6, 6-3, 6-1 over Natalia Medvedeva. 

Notre Dame Accounting Association 
Informational Meeting Thurs. September 3 
7:00 P.M. RM. 027 Hayes Healy 
Agenda: Discuss Upcoming Events Collect $5 dues for year 
All Students Are Welcome 
701 Lighthouse Place Michigan City, IN (219) 873-9292 
•offer valid two weeks from publication date. Available in limited colors and sizes. 


The Observer 

Thursday, September 3, 1992 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

• 
I, 
,t 
r 
of baseball owners 
NEW YORK (AP) -Baseball owners will gather Thursday afternoon at an airport hotel outside Chicago to discuss Fay Vincent, but it's still unclear if they will pressure him to quit as commissioner or attempt to fire him. 
It appeared Wednesday that representatives of all 28 teams would attend the special meet­·ng, called by the league presi­dents last week over Vincent's objection. The commissioner will not attend because he says the Major League Agreement prohibits discussion of the terms and duties of the 
ncumbent. 
"I really don't expect that he will be fired on Thursday," Chicago White Sox owner Jerry Reinsdorf said. "I just don't know what's going to happen. We have a lot of things to talk about." 
It appeared 13 or 14 teams were against Vincent and that 10-12 were supporting him. The views of the San Diego Padres and Detroit Tigers were unclear. 
"I know that there's a majority that's not going to be behind him," Philadelphia Phillies owner Bill Giles said. "How many, I don't know." 




Irish 
continued from page 16 

outside hitter who logged 32 kills last year. With only these two plus six freshmen on the published roster, inexperience 
s a concern for the coach. 

"We'll go to Javonne as much as possible," Bertoli said, "but her supporting cast has to con­tribute, and I think they will. Our new players are stronger all around than the ones we lost from last year." 
The match is the first ever between the two schools. 
Reduce Reuse Recycle 
Because the Major League Agreement doesn't have a mechanism for firing a com­missioner, it also was unclear what options were available to the disenchanted owners. An attempted firing would lead to a court fight that could tie up baseball's administration for a lengthy time. 
The anti-Vincent group, by many accounts, is led by Reinsdorf, Bud Selig of the Milwaukee Brewers, Stanton Cook of the Chicago Cubs and Peter O'Malley of the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
"Doesn't the board of directors fire its chairman or its president if it's not satisfied that the chairman or the presi­dent is (not) doing what the board of directors wants done?" Reinsdorf asked. "These franchises are owned by the owners, so to speak, and the commissioner is the employee of the owners. And if the commissioner is not doing a good job for the owners, then he ought to be dismissed." 
Reinsdorfs view has changed completely from the early morning of March 19, 1990, when he praised Vincent's role in the four-year agreement between the clubs and the Major League Baseball Players Association. 
~----------~~~~==~ 
CWEfcomE g:Ja'l..ty (at dVEw 9acufty and Staff 
ryou a 'l..E co'l.diaffy inaitEd to attEnd an d-/ou d'oEUU'l..E:i c/?EcEption at thE 
'llniaEuity Cfub of dVohE :DamE cMain ..LoungE dVotu :DamE clf-uEnUE {no:t to thE d-/Hbu'l.gh CEntn} 
CWEdnE:iday -SEptEmbE'L 9, 1992 

4:00 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. 

UNIVERSITY CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
c:R.~. <v.Y->. 



p@'S'\17 Day Delivery 

OJ Roses Flowers Balloons PlantstthGift & Fruit Baskets 
'"YOUR FULL SERVICE F\.ORtSr 
Clocktower Square (219)277--1291 51400 31 North Order 24 hrs South Bend, IN 46637 a day 

Mention this ad and receive 10°/o off 
Not good for Valentine's Day 

Notre Dame Rugby Club is starting practice. All returning players and anyone interested in playing should come to Stepan Field at 4:15p.m. Questions? Call287-3587. 
Football Officials are needed for RecSports leagues. Come to meeting on September 9 in the JACC Football Auditorium at 5 p.m. for Grad football and at 5:30 p.m. for women's interhall. Officials earn $9 a game. 
•.. Baseball umpires needed for fall baseball leagues. Anyone interested should report to an umpire's meeting on September 3 at 5 p.m. in the JACC Auditorium. Umpires earn $10 a game. 
Tickets for the Notre Dame-Northwestern game are still available at the JACC ticket otllce on Thursday from 9 a.m. until5 p.m, and through Ticketmaster {312)559·1212 and the Northwestern Ticket Office 1·800-WILDCAT. .·· 
Soccer Officials are needed for RecSports soccer leagues.. Come to a meeting on September 10 at 5:30p.m. in the JACC Auditorium. Officials earn $10 a game., 
· RecSports is accepting entries for interhall cross country and men's soccer; campus volleyball and grad/faculty/staff soccer. Entries are due in the RecSports Office in the JACC by September 9. 
The campus 2-person golf scramble will take place on September 27. The tournament is open to all students. faculty and staff. Sign up as an individual or in pairs. Entries and entry fees due by September 23. 
All Saint Mary's students interested in playing varsity basketball should attend a meeting on September 3 at 4 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Center. 
The 8th Annual run, jane, run: Women in Sports Fundraiser will sponsor a women's double elimination 3•on-3 basketball tournament on September 13 at the Stepan Outdoor Courts. Registration and the $20 fee is due before September 4. Contact Sandy Botham at 239-5420 for registration forms. Funds raised by the event will benefit the YWCA of St. Joseph County. 
Anyone interested in indoor or outdoor track should come to an information meeting on September 9 at4 p.m. in Loftus Auditorium. Questioru;? Call Yvette McNeill at 283-4412. 
Off-Campus soccer players are trying to organize a team. Anyone interested in playing off­campus interhall soccer should call Paul at 277-5329. 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club will hold an informational meeting on September 3 at 7:30.p.m.fit Haggar Auditorium for anyone intereste~ in rowing. ·· ·· · · 
ND/SMC women's lacrosse club is looking for new members. Anyone interested in should call Emily Hage at 283·2914 or Janet Hathoway at 283-4208. 
The NDISMC Equestrian team will h<>td a mand~tory maetlng oQ Sf'lptt!mber 3 at 7:3(fP·1ll· ~n in room 222 ·ofthe llcsburgh Library. New members wekome. Questions? Call Megan at 283-27S4 
239-7093 
A-I \ 
I 


Timr~~aJ, ~~~t~m~~r ~r~ ~:~~ ~1 f~~t~r R~~m ill1~f~rtnn~ 



Fischer, O'Hara-Grace Graduate Residences 


F"' 

Campus Ministry Fischer Community Center 239-8607 (8:00 am-12:00 noon) 
Please join us at the 
WELCOME PICNIC for 
ALL Graduate Students 
Thursday, September 3 6:00 -7:30 pm Com1nunity Center 


..





Today 

Thursday, September 3, 1992 page 15 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

... 



CAMPUS  
Thursday _9 a.m.· 3:30_P·!'1· "Dirty Book Sale." Concourse, Hesburgh Library. Admisswn Free. Sponsored by University of Notre Dame Press. 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Film: "Crazy People," Cushing Auditorium.  

MENU SAINT MARY'S  NOTRE DAME  
Baked Potato Bar Chinese Bar Roast Beef  Veal Parmesan Grinder Pasta Primavera Whipped Potatoes  

Controlling your blood pressure can reduce your chances of heart disease. Have your blood pressure checked. And keep it in check for life. 
~ 
. 

CALVIN AJID HOBBES 
I 1-\~T£ OONT TEl.L. ME \IS All 1-\Et>..R\NG G'JER! I 0\I)N.'\ GIT TO f..~QIJT SOC.If..l 1'"-RIIC\Pf>,\E .1 11-\t.'{ Cf..~'l Rt.SPot-15\S\liT'(! 0\A.t-I.G£ 'ffit. Gf>.-1'1\t. 13t.FOR£ 
l'tl\ OlO lliO\IG\\ \() PLA.'{ .1 11's NOT I=A\R .1 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

' ' 


BILL WATTERSON 
11\t. "ME DECf..DE'' Mf..'{BE WE. 
l't.Ft WlrnOIJT CAN DECLARE 
IT'S POSTER THIS 'THE 
CJ-\lll). "CA.L~IN DtcADE: 
BILL WATTERSON 


SPELUNKER 

WU'{ 1 Wf'P,E .:5ou'...M fllF.S I Fi:>~ Pffi'S$AKf.' 
You'RE 11-tf riRST WOMAN I'VE MET 
THA-T NE!tR.LY ft1TAti\IS M'l 0EPrH oF 
SH!fl.LOWNESS. Tiff AC,ONY OF MYUN­
RETUf\NED Lol/e CoUL-D ONV Be 
/IV{EtJSt FtED BY KNow lf\IVJ You[{ NM1E. AT tJ IU?HT THE LoNeY b.JtNO WIU {RY )lou!\' Ali+Me, rorUV!WJ0 M'l PKeii.MS. T'U QUIT t:ftrtt\lfn AND ~5S ~el-F

oFF A-uuPt· 
TD eND l-0 VI? lRSS £'f.IST8Jc£-' 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Secret 54 Babylon's site, messages today
1 Artist Chagall 34 Fragment 55 In the skies, the s Sheer fright Hunter35 Diving bird 
10 Secretary, e.g. 57 High time 
36 Biblical book 14 Young's "the 58 Site of Callao 
37 Contraction for 

place" 59 Early form of 
shall not 

15 Pedro's friend bridge
38 Like Me. forests 16 South Seas port &OShivery
39 Girl Scouts 17 Siberian river 61 Rice-based
founder potable18 Stylish shop 40 British county 

62-Parker

19Hue 41Gay­(busybody)20 Game or Wis. 42 Exclusive 63 Old measurescity control of length 22Siy 44 Belfry dweller 
24 Ear's opening 45 Handles rudely DOWN
25 Inflexible 46 Novelist­26lmmerse May Alcott 
1 Entertainer from 27 Checkers, in 49Cioak Chicago Cheshire 52 Toothed wheel 2 Mr. T's TV group 3 Belgian marble 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 4 Parlor game 5 Reject 6 Gather 7 "The great river" 
ofthe Bible 


L--....L.......&....-'-­
a"But-on 27 Pepys's book 40 Dispute 49 Extremities forever": 21 Locks 41 Composer Anka so Expanse Tennyson 43 Unclear 51 Cortex
29Air 9Agreement 44 Bligh's vessel 52 Reformer Jacob 
30 Hebrides island 
10 Social activity 46 Untethered
31 Soothe
11 Majestic 47 "Cheers" seat 53 Terminates
32 Melville work: 
12 Fall gradually 48 Bikini, e.g. 56 Greek letter 
1847
13 Actress Jurado 33 Football term 
21 U.S. inventor Elisha­34 Donahue and 
Get answers to any three clues
Harris23 Profligate 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420·
37 Confrontation25 "Go~d Night, 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
38 Self-possession 

• 
Sports 

page 16 
JENNY MARTEN 

On-Top of Sports 
Now it's time to get down to business 
As the dust settles on the Demetrius 

DuBose investigation, the Notre Dame fans can go back to doing what they do best. 
Talk Notre Dame football. 

Now that the preseason crisis is over and the team should be returned to relative completeness in two weeks, the predicting begins. The sportswriters have already put in their two-cents worth with their preseason polls and the time has come for the fans to start second guessing them. 
Will the defense hold the other teams? Will Rick Mirer and Jerome Bettis have Heisman-esque seasons? 
Listen to conversations around the dining halls and out in the quads. Eventually, they all come back to Notre Dame football. The subject is also hotly debated out on the lines outside the Joyce ACC, where faithful Irish students have camped out for their student tickets. 
Will 1992 be a championship year? Will the student body see the "#1" on top of Grace Hall again? 
Discussing Irish football is almost an art form. The fan knows names and po­sitions and stats. Armed with all that information, he or she analyzes, predicts, forecasts and brags. 
If you have seen Saturday Night Live's Superfans skit and thought it was an exaggeration, tune in to football discussions around campus. Many Notre Dame fans treat Lou Holtz with the same reverence that the Superfans hold for Mike Ditka and their conclusion is similar. 
Da Irish. 

From the seasoned alumni and upperclassmen to the freshmen, all are eagerly awaiting the first game to see if their predictions will pan out. But, the Northwestern game is just a taste. A Big-10 whipping post in recent years, Northwestern isn't expected to trouble to Irish too much on the field. 
The fans are looking further down the road. September 12 to be exact. The home opener against Michigan. 
Will Elvis be king for a day? How does DuBose's status effect the game? 
To be sure, the gridiron talk will increase exponentially in the next week. The Northwestern game will be hashed and rehashed. The readiness of the defense and the offense for the Wolverines will be debated. It will be a week of pure Irish hype. 
With a cloudy national championship picture, battling archenemy Michigan early in the season provides the Notre Dame fan with plenty to talk about. 
Will a win make the season? 
Will a loss break the season? 
Notre Dame hype at its best. 

INSIDE SPORTS 
•u.s. Open results 
see page 13 

•Mets' Coleman suspended 
see page 12 

.Owners to discuss Vincent 
see page 14 


Thursday, September 3, 1992 

Irish volleyball to face seasoned killer 
Brooks to lead New Orleans against Notre Dame at JACC 
By DAN PIER 
Sports Writer 
After disposing of a balanced Ball State squad in the season opener, the Notre Dame volleyball team will try its hand against a one-woman wrecking crew tonight as All­America candidate Javonne Brooks leads the University of New Orleans against the Irish at 7:30 at the Joyce ACC. 
After three seasons, Brooks, an outside hitter, stands 11th on the NCAA all-time career kills list. She could vault into the number one spot with 714 kills this season, a mark she surpassed in both her freshman and sophomore cam­paigns. Brooks broke the school and Sun Belt Conference records with 5.0 kills per game last year. She holds the school match, season and career blocking and hitting records, along with the career ace record. 
Irish head coach Debbie Brown has never seen Brooks play, but is impressed with the senior's statistics. 
"She had 1,197 attack attempts last year," Brown said. "Do you think she'll get some swings? She also had a high attack percentage (.345) with that many attempts. We need to work on our blocking." 
While Brooks is a concern, Brown feels that playing their own game is more important for the Irish. She cited a lack of spirit as a problem in Tuesday night's opener. 
"We need to play with more enthusiasm and emotion," the coach told her team. "We really need to celebrate good plays. The level of emotion was significantly less than in last year's opener against Purdue." 
Brown also expects her team to improve its execution in tonight's match. 
"We did not reach our goal for team hitting percentage against Ball State," Brown noted. "When you're playing against teams that aren't nationally ranked, it's not easy to 
't be up, but you still need to execute well." 
The Irish enter the match at 1-0 for the season after finishing last year 26-10. New Orleans played its first match last night at Illinois State. Head coach Jim Bertoli 
~ . ~ 

led the Buc-kettes to a 17-16 record in 1991, his first .~ ..•... season at the helm. New Orleans finished fourth in the 
·,·· ... . . Sun Belt West division. 
. 

The Buc-kettes have only one returning letter-winner in
The Observer/Jake Peters The Notre Dame volleyball team will need strong spiking when the Irish Brooks' supporting cast. Jennifer Pokraka is a sophomore face New Orleans tonight at the JACC to counteract the play of Javonne Brooks. 
see IRISH/ page 14 
ND baseball players hone skills DuBose responds 

By MATT BOWER to suspension
Sports Writer 

SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) -Demetrius DuBose is ready to take his lumps forWhile many athletes look forward to accepting a $600 loan from a Seattlethe summer months as an opportunity couple with ties to the university. 
to relax, Irish baseball players busy But he's dead certain he doesn'tthemselves by competing in numerous deserve them. 

summer leagues. 
Moments after athletic director Dick
Summer leagues are important for Rosenthal on Wednesday againcollege players hoping to improve 

conceded DuBose made a mistake in
according to Notre Dame baseball accepting the money, the senior

·coach Pat Murphy. 

linebacker himself talked about the
"(Summer leagues) are an unwritten 

controversy for the first time. 
requirement for college players. They DuBose remained calm and spokeprovide a relaxed environment where evenly as he faced a flurry of questions players can work on their games." 

about the personal loan, and about a
In order to build upon Notre Dame's 

$25,000 bank loan he received to11th place finish in the NCAA 
finance a car. 
tournament, several players chose to Despite Rosenthal's admission andparticipate in leagues throughout the an NCAA two-game suspension, DuBose country. 

defended his relationship with "two
Some players, like senior outfielder 

people that mean the world to me" andEdwin Hartwell, played in leagues in insisted he did nothing wrong. 
the Northeast. Hartwell earned all­"I still feel I was wrongly accused," league honors playing in Northeastern 

he said. "I really don't feel I did
Collegiate Baseball League. Other, anything wrong. A situation like this, more adventurous, players chose to you learn who your real friends are,journey as far away as Alaska in order and you learn a lot of things aren't to hone their skills. Sophomore Craig fair."

Allen, junior Greg Layson, and senior DuBose said he needed the moneyEric Danapilis all spent their summer for "spending, casual spending -pizza,

playing for the Anchorage Glacier 

those kinds of things." 
Pilots. 
He noted Notre Dame's "upper
Three Irish players spent the summer middle class environment" and said,

playing in the Cape Cod League. 

"For a young athlete to be from a lowerSophomore shortstop Paul Failla ended 
income family, it's hard to really takethe season batting .225 in the league on some of the financial burdens." 
noted for its strong pitching. "It will DuBose said he met the couple,help out a lot in the spring," said Failla, 

Grant and Rose Courtney, while a
"Playing every day and seeing great 

sophomore at Bishop O'Dea High
pitching every day." 

School in Seattle. Courtney is president 
see SUMMER I page 12 see DUBOSE I page 12 








