~~ ---~-------~~-­

VOL. XXIV NO. 140 

~·~ 
-Q&·

e Observer SaintMa~Cd~ 
NOTRE OAME•INOIANA 
THURSDAY , APRIL 30, 1992 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Officers acquitted in taped beating of Rodney King 
SIMI VALLEY, Calif. (AP) ­Four white Los Angeles police officers were acquitted of all but one assault charge Wednesday in the videotaped beating of black motorist Rod­ney King. A mistrial was de­clared on one count. 
The verdicts, in the seventh day of deliberations, came after a year of political uproar sparked by the graphic video­tape of a black man being beaten by white officers, de­nounced in many quarters as brutality. The backlash brought down the Los Angeles police chief. 
Gender Studies grant ends 
By SANDY WIEGAND 
Assistant News Editor 
A three-year Lilly Endowment development grant for the Notre Dame Gender Studies Concentration ends this year, but Director Ava Collins said she is optimistic about the survival of the program. 
The $48,000 grant was the main funding for the concen­lrdlion. The College of Arts and Letters gave the program $5.000 per year for the last three years, plus $5,000 for op­erating expenses, Collins said. 
The college has agreed to pay the salaries of the director and part-time office secretary, office space and office supplies next year, Collins said, which will likely add up to $30,000 to $40,000. 
Some projects will be sacri­ficed. though. Among these are course development grants, lecture series sponsorship, faculty buy-out time and entertainment costs, she said. 
The concentration is interdis­ciplinary, and all its professors belong to another department within the college. Some "entertainment costs" go to­ward educating prospective employees about the concentration, Collins said. 
When the History Department sought a professor to teach women's history, for example, the concentration held a reception to introduce the candidates to faculty. 
"They're interested in what kind of program we have .... That's the kind of thing that at­tracts and retains faculty," Collins said. 
The Lilly grant was awarded with the stipulation that the program be sustained by the University, Collins said, but it did not specify what aspects of the program must be included. 
If the College of Arts and Let­ters experienced further budget problems, the four­year-old concentration could suffer, Collins added, explaining that new programs are usually the first to receive cuts. 
"My client and I are just outraged," King's lawyer, Steve Lerman, said after the verdict. "It sends a bad message. It says it's OK to go ahead and beat somebody when they're down and kick the crap out of them." 
''I'm stunned beyond belief," said Los Angeles City Council­man Mark Ridley-Thomas, former head of the local South­ern Christian Leadership Con­ference. 
The jury acquitted the officers of the more serious assault charge and secondary charges, but deadlocked on one count of excessive force against Officer 

A little night music 
Laurence Powell. 
A hearing was scheduled for May 15 to decide whether to prosecute Powell on the unde­cided count. 
The jury said it cast four guilty votes and eight innocent votes in the excessive-force count against Powell after three days of deliberation on that count alone. 
The officers could have faced four to 7 1/2 years in prison if convicted on all charges. 
After the verdict, the defen­dants hugged relatives, shook hands with attorneys and slapped each other on the back. 

Black community reaction was stunned disbelief. 
"I grieve for America," said Rose Brown, 43, of Los Angeles who came to the courthouse for the verdicts. "I think this is ap­palling." 
George Holliday, the civilian witness who videotaped the beating with his camcorder, "has a difficult time reconciling how his tape could have been so important when the four offi­cers just got found not guilty," said Holliday's lawyer, James Jordan. 
The trial lasted nearly three months in a case that strained 
The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 

The Tuesday night jazz band, directed by Craig Heinzen, practices last night in the John W. Koons, Jr. Rehearsal Hall for the last time this year. 
race relations in Los Angeles and forced the resignation an­nouncement of police Chief Daryl Gates. 
Besides Powell, 29, those ac­quitted were Sgt. Stacey Koon, 41, and officers Timothy Wind, 32, and Theodore Briseno, 39. 
All four had been charged with assault with a deadly weapon and excessive force by an officer under color of au­thority. Koon and Powell also were charged with filing a false police report, and Koon with being an accessory after the 
see KING I page 4 


Students will assist refugees 
By BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 
Fifteen Notre Dame law stu­
dents will volunteer for 10 days 
in Miami this summer to assist 
Haitian refugees seeking politi­
cal asylum. 
From May 18 to 28, the stu­
dents will help refugees flU out 
applications for political asylum 
and interview them in order to 
gain informati{)n proving they 
are legitimate political 
refugees, according to Barbara 
Gasperetti, associate 
professional specialist at the 
Notre Dame Law School. 
Gasperetti said a refugee is 
"one who has a well-founded 
fear of persecution on the basis 
of race, religion, nationality, 
membership in a party or polit­
ical opinion." 
Since the political overthrow 
of President Jean-Bertrand 
Aristide last September, thou­
sands of Haitians have fled 
their country. The refugees in 
Miami, said Gasperetti, have al­
ready been through an initial 
screening process that deter­
mined they may have a legiti" 
mate claim to refugee status, 
and they have 90 days to file an 
application to prove it. 
Gasperetti said that there are 
between 5,000 and 8,000 
people in detention in Miami, 
see REFUGEES I page 4 

Kmiec discusses legal aspects of abortion 
. 

By ALICIA REALE ruled already by the 1989 deci­Assistant News Editor sion in Webster v. Reproductive Health Services," said Kmiec. 
The Planned Parenthood of Thus, the majority of the court Pennsylvania v. Casey case decided in the 1989 case that heard by the Supreme Court the underlying structure of Roe last week is legally insignificant, was flawed. The Casey case politically important and consequently challenges the morally irrelevant, according to court to correct its 1973 error. Douglas Kmiec, Notre Dame The Webster case allowed the law professor. court "better leeway to temper 
The Supreme Court justices abortion with various forms of are currently deliberating restrictions," said Kmiec. "The whether or not to uphold a only thing the court is now do­Pennsylvania law which im­ing is filling in details about poses a 24-hour waiting period how much restriction." upon a pregnant woman before The case could basically open obtaining an abortion, requires the door to a total ban on parental permission for females abortion, except in the case 
"This case is relatively impor­tant (legally), but nevertheless it will limit not prohibit abortion," he continued. 
The case is politically impor­tant to both sides of the issue, according to Kmiec, particularly for pro-choice because"it draws the line in the sand." 
If the court upholds the re­strictions in Casey, Kate Michelmen, head of the Na­tional Abortion Rights Action League, said that she will then demand Congress to enact into law the Freedom of Choice Act, which is currently pending in the House, according to Kmiec. 
Kmiec testified before 
federal law abortion on de­mand, disallowing restrictions." 
The wording of the Act says no state may restrict a woman's right to choose an abortion before viability, according to Kmiec. In addition, a state may not restrict abortion at any time if the health of the mother would be affected. 
Health may be simply the well-being of the mother ac­cording to the drafters of the legislation, Kmiec said. House members tried to make an amendment to preclude abor­tion for reasons of sex selection and this was voted down by the drafters, he added. 

"This wouldn't be a very under 18 to receive one, and where the mother's life is in Congress about this question House members tried to pass politically savvy thing to do," requires married women to danger, according to Kmiec, last month. "This is a devious another amendment allowing she said. "There are lots of notify their husbands before although he said it is not prob­Act," he said. "It is marketed to Catholic doctors to refuse to faculty who want to make sure ending a pregnancy. able. "If they did that it would do nothing more than codify perform abortions for moral that this is being supported." "From the standpoint of con­be legally significant. It is un­Roe v. Wade. If it did only that, reasons and this was voted 
stitutional law, the 1973 Roe v. likely they will do that in it would be horrendous. But it down, as well. 
see GRANT I page 4 Wade has effectively been over-Casey," he said. does more -it would enact into see ABORTION/ page 4 

------------------------------------------------------------------~----­
Thursday, April 30, 1992
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Tokyo 75 63 Washington, D.C. 71 50 


OF INTEREST 
•The last Summer Service Project make-up workshop is today. Any Summer Service Project student who has not attended the workshop or stopped in to see the video must attend this last session at 4:30 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Please bring $10. 
liThe Notre Dame University Orchestra will perform their Spring Concert tonight at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. The concert features soloists Carolyn Plummer, Christine Rutledge and Philip Isenberg with works by Mozart, Schubert, Stravinsky and Coriliano. For further information call Eric Kuehner at 239-6201. 
•A 
special mass will be celebrated at 11 p.m. in the Keenan-Stanford chapel for Dave Freedy '89, who is suf­fering with cancer. 

•NDCIBD 
members interested in submitting an entry in the ad contest must do so by 7 p.m. Friday. Entries should be placed in the Council box outside the ISO Lounge in care of Amy Mark. If you have any questions, call Amy at 283-4290. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ April 29 
VOLUME IN SHARES 206,755,700  NYSEINDEX 226.58  it  1.46  
S&P COMPOSITE 412.02  it­ 2.91  
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS  
3333.18  -1}  25.26  
PRECIOUS METALS  
GOLD{}  $.80  to $336.!0oz.  
Sl LYER4J  1.5¢ to $3.955oz.  

•AnTostal 
prizes may be picked up in the Student Government Office from 9-12 a.m. and 1-5 p.m. Monday through Friday. AnTostal collectable packages may be purchased by committee members for $10. 

•The 
Peace Quilt can be viewed in the coffee house of the Center for Social Concerns. This work of art will be sent to the Iraqi women to convey sympathy at the loss of lives during the Gulf War. 

•Graduates 
doing volunteer work next year must register at the Center for Social Concerns for the Send-Off Ceremony to be held on Saturday, May 16 at 10:30 a.m. in Washington Hall. There will be a reception following for family and friends. Students unsure which program they will accept should still come to this event. 

•The 
San Diego area alumni club is interested in planning events for Notre Dame students in the greater San Diego area. Anyone interested, call J.P. Sniffen at 283-4781 to leave your name and home phone number. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

• 
In 1789: George Washington took office in New York as the first president of the United States. 

• 
In 1803: The United States purchased the Louisiana Terri­tory from France. 

• 
In 1945: As Russian troops approached his bunker in Ber­lin, Adolf Hitler committed suicide along with his wife of one day, Eva Braun. 

• 
In 1975: The South Vietnamese capital of Saigon fell to Communist forces as President Duong Van Minh announced an unconditional surrender to North Vietnam. 

• 
In 1990: Hostage Frank Reed was released by his captives in Lebanon; he was the second American to be 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

• LONDON -A network of botanical gardens officials, campaigning to save .•·•· endangered plants, appealed Wednesday for support from the business world. Prince Charles, in a message welcoming the "worldwide action plan," said animal life cannot exist without plants. The network, Botanic Gardens Conservation International, links 350 botanic gardens in 70 countries and encourages them to grow plants whose natural habitats are threatened, and to save seed and plant tissues in case plants are wiped out in the wild. 
NATIONAL Daughter switched at birth 
• SARASOTA, Fla.-The biological parents of a girl switched at birth failed in a legal bid Wednesday to wrest the child from the man who raised her. Ernest and Regina 1\vigg's motion to be awarded custody of 13-year-old Kimberly Mays was rejected by Circuit Judge Stephen Dakan, who ruled the couple is still bound by a 1989 agreement to seek visitation only. "It was the right thing to do," said Robert Mays. who has cared for Kimberly since birth. "It's clear she wants to stay at home with me." The 1\vigg's attorneys say they will pursue a full custody trial in July. 
Ethanol may cause pollution 

• WASHINGTON -Ethanol was supposed to be a great deal for corn growers and an answer to the na­tion's environmental problems. Trouble is, the govern­ment says ethanol could cause pollution, not prevent it. Farmers and ethanol producers thought an anti-pollu­tion law passed two years ago would create a huge new market for their product in smog-choked cities where cleaner-burning gasoline would be required. But the Environmental Protection Agency proposed a standard for the new lower-polluting gas that almost guarantees that the additive of choice will be a compound made from natural gas, not ethanol, officials say. 



-----~~-------------­

Observer file photo ROTC cadet_s, here participating in an instructional seminar in Stepan Center, rece1ved vanous awards at last night's awards ceremony held in the library auditorium. 

Happy 21st Birthday Nora! 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Brigid 
ARtCORD YO~ CAN ~RtA~ 
STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF NEEDED! HElP BEAT THE BIG TEN RECORD fOR MOST PEOPlE AT AN AEROBICS ClASS 
FRIDAY, MAY 1 

4:30PM .__J 
STEPAN FIELD ~ 
(IN CASE OF RAIN· LOFTUS CENTER) 
ND sends delegates to Asia 
ships in the various countries," Kiel said. 
In addition to searching for future internship opportunities, the delegates intend to pursue other activities, according to Kiel. 
"We want to visit the Notre Dame Australia program and see how we can become in­volved in that," Kiel said. "NDCIBD established an English school in Poland, and we want to see if we could do the same in Asia." 
WHEN'fHERE 
WILL BE 
NO LONELINESS, 
NO DESTITUTION, 
NO SICKNESS, 
NO WAR, 
ONLY THEN 
WILL THERE 
BE NO NEED 
FOR THE 
fuviERICAN 
REo CRoss. 

.-----------~-~ ~-~ 
page 4 The Observer Th~:~r:>day, April 30, 1992 
bert has taken an aU-or-nothing Briseno turned on his col­stance in this case. "She knows leagues, saying he tried to stop
Abortion 
King
Roe has legally been the beating and was ignored. overruled," said Kmiec. She re­"I just thought the whole
continued from page 1continued from page 1 

fuses to argue narrowly be­thing was out of control," he 
"This is the sweeping radical cause she is "part of the effort fact. said. nature of the legislation. In this to make Casey the launching Wind, a probationary officer, Briseno said his own action, present year, there will be an pad for the drive to enact the was fired. The others were sus­which appeared as a stomp on immediate call if the court Freedom of Choice Act," he pended. King's neck, was an effort to upholds the Pennsylvania law," added. The acquittals raised fears of hold him down so he wouldn't he said. The court is very likely "Pro-choice activists demand unrest in the wake of the ver­be hit again. to uphold the restrictions, ac­an answer from the court so as dicts. Police had earmarked $1 The evidence against Wind, cording to Kmiec. to refocus on Congress," he million in overtime in case ac­who did not testify, was the 
Thirdly, the case is morally said. Their strategy is that they quittals sparked riots. Black videotape in which he was seen irrelevant because it misses the can no longer win in the more leaders, who spent weeks ap­clubbing and kicking King. An essential point that the unborn conservative Supreme Court, pealing for calm, denounced emergency room nurse also tes­
Douglas Kmiec 

child is a person with constitu­according to Kmiec. Gates' plan as inflammatory. tified Wind stood by silently as tional rights, he said. "An un­That has not always been The jury -which included an Powell taunted the beaten King born child is a person entitled true. In 1973 there were less Because it is an election year, Asian, a Hispanic and no blacks saying, '"We had a pretty good 
to every bit of the law's protec­scientific means available. Due democratic congressional can­-heard from 54 witnesses hardball game tonight ... You tion as his adult father and to the development of ultra­didates have given the word whose recollections of the vio­lost and we won."' mother and born brother and sound and DNA testing, that they will sign the legisla­lent night of March 3, 1991, In a surprise move, neither sister." "science is a matter of fact, not tion into law. often conflicted. side called King as a witness. 
According to Kmiec, Kenneth law, religion or moral judge­There are over 130 sponsors An appeals court ordered the
Most of the testimony came 

Starr, the solicitor general, said ment. Scientists have identified of the legislation. Brown, from police officers and police trial moved here to neighboring the United States government the origin of life as the moment Clinton and Perot will all sign, employees, with three of the de­Ventura County to escape the does not take a position on of conception. according to Kmiec. Bush fendants testifying. turmoil. Gates plans to step when an unborn child becomes "If this is true, it is abhorrent vacillates on the issue but is But the most powerful evi­down by the end of June. a person. that the United States does not likely to veto the act. dence remained the videotape. Philadelphia Police Commis­"It is not a difficult question," have the opinion that life begins "The American public is not sioner Willie Williams, who is
On a large-screen TV that dominated the courtroom, at­

said Kmiec. "It has been re­at conception and the unborn pro-abortion," said Kmiec. black, was chosen to replace ported (recently) in scientific child is a person of constitu­"They overwhelmingly oppose torneys played it again and Gates. literature that life begins at tional rights," said Kmiec. unfettered right to abortion on again at varying speeds. The remote Simi Valley 
conception." ACLU attorney Kathryn Kol-demand." Illuminated by the glare of courthouse was not far from police car headlights, it was a 
Lakeview Terrace, where a they call a pioneering program money donation, and say 'I nightmare vision of a black man freeway chase of a speeding car that advances the field in new, want this to go to such and writhing under the baton blows by the California Highway Pa­
Grant 
interesting ways. Notre Dame is such,' they have a hard time of white police officers who trol ended in the beating. just behind in that," she said. turning you down. clubbed and kicked him for 81 The prosecution's key witness
continued from page 1 
"It's hard to justify yourself as a Collins said she is "optimistic" seconds. was CHP Officer Melanie Singer, 
Professors from the concen­program that deserves a grant." that the concentration will Prosecutors said they counted who portrayed a cowering King tration met with Arts and Let­"We need basically operating survive. "I think we have a very 56 blows. King's leg and facial being beaten about the head by ters Dean Harold Attridge this expenses for a program that's large constituency, who are bones were broken. a baton-wielding Powell. Head week and proposed an $88,500 along the lines of other pro­very interested in the fate of the Koon, the officer in charge blows are discouraged, she budget to be funded by the col­grams," she continued. program, and who are going to that night, took the stand and said, because they can kill. lege after next year. Some aid may come from be vigilant." calmly described the beating as 
Outside grants are difficult for graduates who specify that " a managed and controlled use Powell and Koon were hurt by Notre Dame to secure, Collins their donations to the University There are currently 41 stu­of force." their own words in computer added. be used for this program, dents with a concentration in "It's violent and it's brutal," messages sent from their police "The program is not what Collins said. "If you make a Gender Studies. he said. "Sometimes police cars moments after the beating work is brutal. It's a fact of 
and by an audio tape in which experience. "I have a feeling To prepare for the trip, stu­Powell was heard laughing as
life." 

we're going to go with great dents participated in a training he called an ambulance for
Powell, accused of striking

Refugees 
expectations and come back workshop, Gasperetti said. King.
the most blows, said he thought

with a real grasp of the com­Former mayor of South Bend Powell's computer message
continued from page 1 King was under the influence of plexity of the problem," she Roger Parent and his wife PCP. No sign of the drug was said, "I haven't beaten anyone said. Roland, who have experience in this bad in a long time." Koon's
found in King's body, but tests

and they have made a plea to The community has shown the Peace Corp in Haiti, and message described "a big time
showed he was drunk.

American lawyers to assist much support for the trip, Niaomi Hunzburger, who has use of force. Teased and beat
"I was completely in fear for

them in processing their which is sponsored by the Notre lived in Haiti, gave background the suspect of a CHP pursuit.
my life, scared to death," said

applications. Dame Legal Aid Clinic, said information on the country, and Big time." 
Powell.

"Our students can do this as Gasperetti. Students will live in the students learned legal and law students," she said. student housing donated by interviewing procedures, she ..................................................~ 
The students will be accom­ Miami's Barry College, and the  added.  
panied  by  four  advisors,  Miami Alumni Association has  
Gasperetti said, including her­ donated  the  use  of  a  van.  Both Gasperetti and Quinlan  
self, Professor Sabrina Mc­ Campus Ministry, Father Hes­ expressed excitement concern­ 
Carthey, Garth Meintjes, assis­ burgh and the Center for Hu­ ing the trip.  "The students are  
tant director of the Center for  man Rights of the Law School  excited," Gasperetti said.  "It  
Human  Rights  in  the  Law  have also given financial sup­ really gives us a chance to get  
School, and Father Terry Coo­ port, she added.  some hands-on experience."  
nan, who also works in the Cen­ 
ter for Human Rights. Cathy Quinlan, a law student  WE'RE PUTDNG DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS.  
participating in the program, expects the trip to be a learning  Partnership for a Drug-Free America  



High·!at. high-cholesterol !oods can leave you with aheavy heart. 
American Heart 
' Association 
1992 Amencan Heart Assoc1at1on 



Baccalaureate Mass· are available!!! 
Pick up order £or.ns in all dornts a £ro.n Educational Media 

Educational Media 
University of Notre Dame 
Room 9 of the CCE Bldg. P.O. Box 1088 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
219 • 239 • 5465 
THE NOTRE DAME 
.,.. 
VARSITY SHOP
..., 
VARSITY SHOP 
introduces its 
END OF THE YEAR SALE in the BOXING ROOM 
10 ·30% OFF SELECTED MERCHANDISE!! 
May 1-3 and May 11-13 11:00 am-3:00pm 
{Enter JACC throu h Gate 3) 


~--------------------------------------------~--~----------~ 
Thursday, April 30, 1992 The Observer page 5 
ND grants in March total over $2 million 
Saint Mary's prospectives of different kind discuss return to college after many years 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $2,459,252 in grants during March for the support of research and various programs. Research funds totaled $2,340,126 including: 
•$528,000 
from the National Science Foundation for nuclear structure research by Cornelius Browne, professor of physics, Sperry Darden, professor of physics, and others. 

•$297,824 
from the National Institute of Health for X-Ray and chemical studies of metal­loporphyrins by W. Robert Scheidt, professor of chemistry and biochemistry. 

•$270,000 
from the National Science Foundation for re­search on reaction and struc­ture studies with heavy ions by James Kolata, professor of physics and Umesh Garg, associate professor of physics. 

•$160,000 
from the U.S. De­partment of Energy for re­search in high energy physics by John LoSecco, associate 


professor of physics. 
•$152,517 
from the National Institute of Health for research on precursors of retardation in children with teen mothers by John Borkowski, professor of psychology, Thomas Whitman, professor of psychology, and others. 

•$135,00 
from the U.S. Navy for research on strain and ordering in certain classes of semiconductors by Jacek Fur­dyna, Marquez professor of physics. 

•128,068 
from the U.S. De­partment of Energy for re­search on particle transport through heterogeneous porous media by Stephen Silliman, as­sociate professor of civil engi­neering and geological sciences, and Marijan Babic, assistant professor of civil engineering and geological sciences. 

•$106,733 
from Argonne National Laboratory for research on hazardous waste remediation by Charles Kulpa, Jr., professor of biological sciences. 


By AMY BENNETT 
Assistant SMC Editor 
Fifteen non-traditional-aged prospective Saint Mary's stu­dents were given the opportu­nity to discuss their return to college with administration and faculty members at a luncheon yesterday. 
''I'm really excited about it," said Mary Ann Rowan, director of admissions at Saint Mary's. "The women left feeling very upbeat, very encouraged and very eager. It's difficult to make the first move [and go back to school]. Today was that first move." 
Non-traditional-aged students are usually those who haven't finished college and have decided to go back and get their degrees, according to Heather Moriconi, assistant director of admissions. 
Some of the students are at Saint Mary's on a part-time basis, and others are auditing classes; however, many have been out of school from 10 to 25 years. 
"They add a lot of diversity to the classroom," Moriconi said of the students. "They offer a dynamic atmosphere. The tra­ditional-aged students can learn from them, too." 
During the luncheon, the prospective students expressed concerns that they may have fallen behind new technology, said Rowan. They also had questions about how to get started with the registration process. 
Carolyn Weber, a speech-lan­guage pathologist and a Saint Mary's professor, was at the luncheon to encourage the prospective students. She is currently pursuing her doctor­ate on educational psychology at Andrews University in Michi­gan. 
She believes that going back to school has helped her as a professor. "Being a student makes me a more sensitive pro­fessor because I'm living both roles," she said. 
Mary Woodka is an intern in the Admissions Office and a part-time student at Saint Mary's. She is married and a mother of three children. She attended Saint Mary's briefly after high school but had not been in school for 19 years until she decided to come back to Saint Mary's four years ago. 
"The first month was tough because my mind wasn't work­ing anymore after so much time off," Woodka said. "Your brain does kick in after a while, though. They were kidding me in my marketing class for ruin­ing the curve. I work really hard on it." 
Woodka feels that she is more focused in her second effort towards her communications degree than she was right out of college. "'I go to class all the time and do my work more conscientiously than before," she says. She is currently maintaining a 3. 7 grade point average in her six credit hours. 
She also enjoys the atmo­sphere that the students create. "It keeps you young, just being around the students. I really enjoy them -they make it fun for me." 

Pancake tradition faces discontinuation 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's midnight pan­cake breakfast tradition is in danger of being discontinued, according to Bill Kirk, vice president of Student Affairs. 
The once-a-semester pancake breakfast, held on the night be­fore the first day of exams, could be discontinued if stu­
~ 
;. 

Now Hiring 
dents continue to act irrespon­sibly, Kirk said. 
"There has been an abuse of the University and Food Ser­vices' gift by the students," Kirk said. "Every year there are food fights, not to mention a substantial amount of food wasted." 
Kirk emphasized that although a great deal of money goes into providing the dinner, the decision is not financially motivated. 
The Administration is more concerned with the disregard for the time and effort put in by Food Services to provide the pancake breakfast, he said. 
Kirk added, "The future of the pancake breakfast is completely up to the students." 
Two trustees resign at 
B~idgeport 


---~------~--~-----~---------~~­
page 6 The Observer Thursday, April 30, 1992 

Passenger liner collides with Greek ship.-~~--...liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiii;;_. 
HONG KONG lAP) -A Ger-board of the Europa. The Greek 
passengers aboard the Europa 
man passenger liner .carryi~g ship's forward holds were tak­
appeared cheerful and were ne~rly 800 peo~le colh~ed with ing in a little water, as was the 
waving. 
a (1reek contamer ship near German ship's propeller shaft Hong Kong on Wednesday, tunnel, Choi said, but both ships The Europa, with 465 pas­causing several minor injuries were stable. 
sengers and 306 crew mem­
and slight damage to both ves­
bers, had just left Hong Kong en 
sels, officials said. 
Tom Sawyer, who flew over route to Shanghai. The Inchon the two ships for the Hong Kong Glory was heading for Hong Peter Choi, a spokesman for Auxiliary Air Force, said Kong from Taiwan. the II ong Kong Marine De-.----====-=,--:==---==----==-=--===-====~=-==r partment, said several crew on 
TELEMARKETERS
the German ship Europa were hurt in the collision 207 miles 
east of Hong Kong. 
WANTED 
The bow of the Inchon Glory was jammed into the rear star-
SUBWAY's New Six Foot Combo Special is a delicious combination of ham, bologna and salami*, plus generous portions of cheese, lettuce and tomato, all on our own freshly baked bread. This 
makes it a welcome change from the usual Pizza, Chicken and Burgers.
Bright, energetic, 
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE: 

highly-motivated individuals 
We're so sure that you and your group will love

needed NOW for 
the Six Foot Combo Special,that we will refund

telemarketing positions. 
your money ifyou are not completely satisfied. 
GREAT FOR GRADUATION PARTIES 
For more information, call the SUBWAY location nearest you:
• flexible hours! 

SR 23 &lronwood/277-7744Work legally on short-t£nn P'O!JilllS: 
• no sales!
• Britain • Ireland • Frlr!Ce • 

US 31 N. (North Village Mall)/277-1024 • GermirtY • J81Tlaica • 
• salary + commission!
New ZeaiiJf'ld .Costa Rica 
115 W. Washington (Downtown)/289-1288COll'lCfsW011< Abroad Pro!Jam, the only one ot Its kind...cuts through the red tape! 


In
Council Travel 
South Bend
1153 N. Oe5bom 5t., 2nd Aoor 
Chica9o, II 6061 0 
Call

311·951-0585 
219-273-1866

Call For A Free 1991 Student Travel 
•All Turkey Based 
or Work Abroad Catalog! 


U.N. reports world population quickly rising 
LONDON (AP) -World popu­lation, rising faster than ever and headed for 6 billion, is a crucial factor in environmental destruction and must be con­sidered at the Earth Summit, the U.N. Population Fund said Wndnesday. 
Dr. Nafis Sadik. the fund's executive dirHctor. complained that major summit documents barely mention population growth. She said she under­stood the Homan Catholic Church was involved in blocking inclusion of family planning. 
"Unless you really deal with population, you can forget about environment or about development," she said. 
Sadik said the first pre­summit meeting. last year, put population on the agenda, but the second meeting, this year, "diluted everything" in its pro­posed programs and in the Earth Charter, to be signed by heads of government. 
"All mention of family plan­ning has been removed. In fact, family planning has been ad­dressed in the most round­about fashion .... that was, I understand, at the very active participation of the Vatican and help by one or two governments 
Argentina and the Philippines," she said. 
Testing set for breast cancer prevention drug 
BETHESDA, Md. (AP) -The National Cancer Institute on Wednesday launched the first large-scale test of a drug aimed at preventing breast cancer in women most at risk. The pro­ject will take five years and will study 16,000 women. 
Hesearchers also want to find out if the drug. tamoxifen, is effective in preventing heart disease and osteoporosis, a condition in which the bones become fragile. 
Th!l trial will be open to women over the age of 60, and to women aged 35 to 59 who demonstrate certain risk factors 
According to the fund's an­nual report, the State of World Population 1992, the population will increase by about 97 million annually until the year 2000, the equivalent of a United States every 2 1/2 years. 
"If we carefully husband them, world resources are ade­quate for the sustained devel­opment of the planet," Sadik 
for breast cancer. 
Tamoxifen is the most widely prescribed cancer drug in the world, and for years it has been used in treating breast cancer, the institute said. 
"Its anti-tumor effects in humans have been demon­strated," said Dr. Bernard Fisher, the chief investigator for the clinical trial. 
In addition, it appears that the drug may prevent heart dis­ease by lowering cholesterol and could delay further pro­gression of osteoporosis, Fisher said. 
Side effects, however, include said. 

The the report came five weeks before the June summit in Rio de Janeiro, called the 
U.N. Conference on Environ­ment and Development. 
Sadik said the fund has been talking to summit secretary­general Maurice Strong and to governments with strong popu­lation programs to see what can 
the risk of blood clots and uterine cancer in older women. There also have been studies indicating that massive doses cause liver tumors in rats. 
Women in the test will not be able to take estrogen treatment or birth control pills because such combinations may cause cancer, the institute said. 
Fisher said those side effects are rare and the possible bene­fits outweigh the risks. 
But the institute plans to keep track of the women for the rest of their lives to see if any of these problems develop, he said. 
be done about adding to the agenda. She did not identify the governments. 
"I think the population issue will be addressed," she said. 
Sadik said the simultaneous explosions of population and consumption "heighten the possibility of future economic and ecological catastrophe, the nightmare of the 1990s." 
The report publishes long­range population projections from the U.N. Population Divi­sion. According to the projec­tions, the world population will be 5.48 billion in mid-1992, climbing to 6 billion by 1998 ­two years earlier than previ­ously forecast. 
The next decade's projected growth-about 97 million an­nually -is the highest ever, with nearly all the growth in Africa, Asia and Latin America, the report said. 
It said more needs to be done for the world's 1.1 billion poor­est people, to improve health and education, and to raise the status of women. Special atten­tion should be given to Africa and South Asia, where more than half the population in­crease occurs, it said. 
"Forever is a long time, but that's what it is," Fisher said. 
The trial will be conducted at 270 sites in the United States and Canada. Half of the women in the test will be given a 20­milligram daily dose of tamox­ifen, the other half will take a placebo. 
It is a "double blind" test, meaning that neither the women involved nor their physicians will know whether they are taking the real drug or the placebo. 
Dr. Leslie Ford, chief of the institute's community oncology and rehabilitation branch, said 
Murderer 
will not go 
to prison 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -1\vo men eonfessed to killing Julie Everson, but neither will go to prison. 
In a bizarre twist, a man acquitted last year in the killing admitted his guilt ­moments before another man who had pleaded guilty was to be sentenced. 
The confession Tuesday by Everson's landlord. Russell Swart. left the victim's family angry. police frustratHd and attorneys pondering how the legal system could produce such an outcome. 
Swart can't be tried again because of the constitutional protection against being tried twice for the same crime. 
"A confessed killer got away with murder because the jury didn't feel there was enough evidence to convict him. That's something they'll have to live with," said police Sgt. C.W. Miles, who investi­gated the case. "That's the price we pay to live in a free society. Sometimes the guilty got away." 
Everson's mother, Joan, said the legal system failed and "I blame the jury most of all, considering the evidence was there" linking Swart to the killing. 
Everson was found buried in the yard of an apartment building last June, six months after she disappeared. 
Two of her neighbors in the building, Swart and his longtime friend Keith Bullock, were charged with killing her. 

Thursday, April 30, 1992 The Observer page 7 
1 One killed, 53 injured in accident after Amtrak train collides with truck


NEWPORT NEWS, Va. (AP) ­An Amtrak train derailed Wednesday morning after col­liding with a truck at a right of way, killing the truck driver and injuring 53 of the roughly 96 people aboard, authorities said. 
The Colonial, bound for New York, slammed into a dump truck loaded with sand 10 min­utes after leaving the Newport News station. The crash oc­curred at an intersection that was marked with warning signs but no gates, bells or flashing lights. 
"It was a big chug like, and the train started screeching," said passenger Marcelina Morales of New York, who suf­fered minor injuries. "Then all of a sudden it started turning over, turning over. We thought it would never stop." 
Several cars on the train overturned, but it appeared that they only turned once onto their side and did not continue to roll. 
Fire Investigator M.F. Champ
The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 

said the truck driver was killed
It takes a very steady hand 
and 53 people on the train were St. Edward's Half sophomores Paul Hergenrother and Doug injured. Five hospitals reported Stoudmeister carefully take down their loft in preparation for exam treating 49 people, most for week and summer storage. minor injuries. 
i DOMINO'S PIZZA®
i STUDYTIPS 
Illtilt • st111or w\o and 1he co.rte crYa for pW.. (T1!is b bun u "rbza Gratht PMN" or PU;a lOr the Salu: o£Pusi.Dg.) 
Ecouomia i5 t.Uitr i£ yon've goc acoQpon. 
• • 
Police Lt. Carl Burt identified the truck driver as Sam Chan­dler, 61, of Gloucester. He worked for the Sears Concrete Corp. of Gloucester, Burt said. 
Amtrak spokesman Cliff Black said ticket listing showed the train was carrying 92 pas­sengers, but the actual number could have been a few more or less. There were four crewmembers. 
Burt said speed recorders on the locomotive showed that the train was traveling at its au­thorized speed of 79 mph. 
The train consisted of an engine and five passengers cars, all of which derailed. Three cars were on their sides, two were upright and the engine was in a ravine. 
The impact sheared the truck in half, Burt said. 
"It was just a quick, sharp bang," said Kevin Hayes, who was on one of the cars that flipped on its side. "Everybody tumbled over." Hayes was not injured. 
"I felt a jolt and then we just started rocking," said Percy Black of New York, who also wasn't injury. 
Danny Terry of Newport News said he was on his way to a mall to get his glasses repaired and passed by soon after the accident. 
"It was really bad, cars ev­erywhere, debris everywhere, dirt and trees pushed up, lots of people running to see what was going on," Terry said. He said he saw people climbing out the windows of the train. 
The train had stops in Rich­mond, Alexandria, Washington, Baltimore, Philadelphia, Tren­ton, N.J., and Newark, N.J. 
The National Transportation Safety Board sent a team of in­vestigators. 
Michael Benson, a spokesman for the safety board, said inves­tigators will examine highway conditions, the driving history of the truck driver and the truck's brakes. 
The Colonial was involved in another accident, on Jan. 4, 1987, when it was struck by three linked Conrail locomotives that ran a stop signal near Baltimore. Sixteen people were killed and 175 injured in that accident, the worst in Amtrak history. 

:•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••:Military plane 
i~~~!hk~~f~d 
: LILESVILLE, N.C. (AP) ­Divers groped in muddy water 
• 
Wednesday for the bodies of e eight of nine Air Force crew­

• 
men killed in the crash of a e military cargo plane. 

• 
Tuesday's accident was the second fatal crash in three 


• 
months of an Air Force C-130 e transport plane, the military'se workhorse aircraft. e One body was recovered 
• Tuesday before the search was suspended because of 
•
• 
darkness. 
e Recent rain and the impact of e the crash stirred up mud 
• 
around the plane, creating haz­ardous conditions for diving, 

• 
said Col. Ronald Blake, com­

• 
mander of Pope Air Force Base. 

• 
"The water IS. so murky our divers can't see their hands in 

• 
front of their face," Blake said. e "We have to go over the planee inch by inch. To determine the e condition (of the plane), our 

• 
divers are literally feeling their way around and when they 

• 
come out, drawing it on a piecee ofpaper." 



• •
• I I 
• 1 Medium :2 14" Large M~~~~M $1 2 g9 : : Cheese $4.99 l cheese $9.99 cHEEsE • ! : 
• Pll2RS I •
II 
1 

• Vlida~--""'r~..;...,_,_ ___ !.....,.._.._..,.~ ...--.--v•utp"'~·~•MJ.NoO...;,..;..., .... _CtAIO""'P'I'. 
1 •• 

: ::.~-:.:e::c-Jo.~=-~:==~~ : ;:-,':,-::==·~===-~ ::.·.~:::=~~~:1,:-.~=~=::~..~~ !
: '-----c;-u:~;;;~ --2~;-~~=.::~----~::~~,:____j 1 
: 

• 4:10pm-~ Fn. 6 Saa. • 
................................................. 

London  $515*  
Frankfurt  $655*  
Rome  $715*  
Tel Aviv  $765*  
Copenhagen  $655*  

•Fares are roundtrip for deparb.ns up tc Jllle 1Sonscheci.lledcarrim.lntern.:tionalleacher IDs, Hostel Cil"ds, cwerseas larlguage courses for teacher.>. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. De.Yban St, 5hd ftoa" Olicago, 1160610 
311·951·0585 
Call For A Frc:e 199!1 Student Travc:t catalog! 


Business 
page 8 Thursday, April 30, 1992 

It's ERQOIIOIICALLY DESIIIIED to fit THE HUIAN HAND I 
Graphic provided by Mike Hochstetler The above graphic represents the worm pen, which is being sold by NO student Mike Hochstetler in LaFortune on Friday. The sale culminates a long process of design, research and marketing done by Hochstetler. 
Income rises while spending lags slightly 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Amer­icans' income in March rose at a healthy pace for the second consecutive month but their spending grew more slowly, the government said Wednesday, providing evidence that consumers remain cautious as the recovery unfolds. 
"Consumers ... are not jump­ing in their cars and speeding off to the malls," said economist John Albertine, a Washington-based forecaster. They "were spooked by the re­cession and are not about to re-enter the marketplace by diving ofT the high board." 
Personal income increased 

0.6 percent last month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $4.99 trillion following an even stronger 1 percent rise in February, the Commerce Department said. 
Meanwhile, consumer spending rose 0.3 percent to an annual rate of $4.04 trillion. the fifth advance in a row. 
The March increases in both spending and income were slightly better than economists were projecting and were seen as evidence the recovery is 
Countries spy on U.S. economy 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -Nearly 20 foreign governments in Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Latin America are involved in economic spying on the United States, CIA Director Robert Gates said Wednesday. 
"In ,a world that increasingly measures national power ... in economic as well as military terms, many foreign intelli­gence services" are turning their sights to stealing Ameri­can technology and trade se­crets, Gates told a House Judi­ciary subcommittee. 
Foreign nations seek inside information on U.S. government policy deliberations that affect trade and investments, as well as information about contract bids, financial data and banking, Gates said. 
And they sometimes seek to influence business and government decisions covertly, he added. 
Gates did not name specific countries, but said they include some formerly communist na­tions and some regarded as good U.S. friends. 
"Some countries with whom we have had good relations may adopt a two-track ap­proach," he said, "cooperating proceeding, although slowly. 
"The recovery is on a sure footing," said economist Samuel Kahan of Fuji Securi­ties Inc. in Chicago. "The gains in housing construction and retail sales are now spilling over into employment, into income." 
During the first quarter, con­sumer spending was the engine of growth in the overaiJ economy, which advanced at an innation-adjusted annual rate of 2 percent, the best since shortly after President Bush took office. 
However, Kahan and other analysts warned that if employers do not increase the pace of rehiring, income gains -and consequently the increased spending -will fizzle. 
Despite many signs of a re­bounding economy, the nation's unemployment rate in March remained at 7.3 percent, a 6 1/2-year high. 
In February and March, in­come gains were bolstered by subsidy payments to farmers and by a presidentially ordered speedup in life insurance dividend payments to veterans. 
.I 
William Sessions 
with us at the level of diplomacy while engaging in adversarial intelligence collection." 
At the same hearing, FBI Di­rector William Sessions said his bureau is "nearing the point where we will be denied access on a routine basis" to telephone communications. He asked that Congress require that any encryption technology be equipped with a feature that would allow the FBI to eaves­drop. 
Corporations are resisting that, saying any weakness in an encryption system would reduce its effectiveness. 
Gates added that he could of­fer no proof of a trend toward increased economic spying by advanced industrial nations. 

But Gerard Burke, a consul­tant who advises corporations on security and counterespi­onage, testified that Russia has boosted its economic spying ef­forts and called China an "even more aggressive" international snoop. France, Israel, Switzer­land, Sweden and Great Britain also have official industrial spies, he said. 
The issue has taken on im­portance not only for the de­ployment of U.S. counterintelli­gence forces, but has added to a dispute between American business and government over how far companies can go to protect themselves. 
Corporations want to make use of readily available tech­nology to encrypt, or scramble, their telephone and data transmissions to make it harder for foreign government and corporate spies to intercept them. 
But the spread of encryption technology has a spillover effect on law enforcement, which could lose its ability to wiretap, a traditional tool for catching crooks. 
Worm pens go on sale Friday 
By NICOLE MCGRATH 
Business Writer 

From Indiana to Taiwan to Notre Dame, junior Mike Hochstetler has taken his pen 
prototype  and created  a  
worldwide success.  
"Back  in  high  school,  I  

wanted to build a pencil gripper into the design of a pen...but it became something different." said Hochstetler, of Flanner Hall. 
The 'something different' is what is called the Worm pen. The Worm pen, according to Hochstetler, that was designed to relieve stress off of the hand. "I guess I have a lot of imagi­nation", he admitted. 
Hochstetler says he has gained dues about becoming an entrepreneur from past great Henry Ford. Men such as him, gave him incentive to go out and search for places to market his product. "It gave me an idea to look for trade shows for stationary and pens", he said. 
Analyst identifies key problem source Boards of directors seen as root of economic difficulty 
NEW YORK (AP) -The trouble with many of America's largest companies is their boards of directors. 
That opinion comes from an authority on the structure and duties of boards, a man who has chaired boards, sat on them, advised them, studied them, written about them, taught about them and watched their decline as an institution. 
"Boards abdicated their re­sponsibilities and capitulated to management," said Eugene Jennings, and he blames their failure for the poor perfor­mance at some of the biggest blue chip companies in Amer­ica. 
"It's the root of the problem," he says, contending that it explains the low level of management competence, the breakdown of ties between ex­ecutive pay and performance, the poor profits, and the inertia of so many large companies. 
Moreover, he says, the situa-
Last November, Hochstetler displayed his prototype of his spiral-looking pen at a trade show in Chicago. He explained, "It was the most exciting time in Chicago since it was my first show; my first shot." 
At the show, Hochstetler got his big break. "The Chicago Tribune wrote a big article about the pen which everyone took notice of', he said. With that recognition came the sup­port of Barnabas Chen. Chen's company California-based World Trend Inc. offered to produce the Worm in Taiwan, according to Hochstetler. "The coverage clinched it . " 
Chen flew Hochstetler to New Orleans for his next show last December. Since that time, the prototypes have received a positive response in Germany and Japan. 
Working night and day in Taiwan, World Trend Inc. was able to duplicate the pen by Cad-Cam® into a 14 cavity mold 
tion cannot quickly be corrected because boards now do not have the information sources or skills to plan the corporate future, nor the competence to select, train, supervise or terminate top executives. 
In short, since the institution and its responsibilities and powers have been allowed to erode, Jennings asks "how can you expect them now to find competent management?" 
Jennings has studied the situ­ation for 35 years, during which time he related his observations in many books, including "Routes To The Executive Suite" and "The Executive in Crisis." 
Now professor emeritus of management, Michigan State University, he traces the decline to 1955-1965 when, he said, heirs of the founders gradually removed themselves from active roles for tax and estate reasons. 
"They had a personal stew­ardship," he said, and directors 
Bush announces cuts in regulatory policy 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi· dent Bush today extended a regulatory moratorium that he said has saved up to $20 billion in red-tape costs but which critics claimed has derailed dozens of health, safety, consumer and environmental rules. 
"Over-regulation costs jobs," Bush said in a Rose Garden speech as he announced a four-month extension of the 90-day moratorium he announced Jan. 28 against regulations deemed unnecessary or expensive. 
"The economy is beginning to recover now," the president said. "To ensure that recovery continues and is strengthened, to ensure that we can create new jobs, we must continue our course of regulatory reform." 
Bush also ordered that more regulations be subject to scrutiny under a cost-benefit analysis than currently is re­quired. And he told Congress he would veto "any b11l that at­tempts to put excessive new burdens of regulation on the had a knowledge of the busi­ness and direct involvement in its affairs. The board's role was to design the future and make sure it had the management to achieve it. 

As boards become passive, concerned more with dividends than operations, they Jet man­agement move into the vacuum. The latter became the sole au­thority on succession planning, with the existing chief picking the successor. 
Meanwhile, boards grew larger and even less responsive. In the 1955-1965 period, a large company typically had eight to 10 board members; to­day, it has 14 to 18, and the typical member sits on an aver­age of 4.5 boards. 
"How can you sit on five boards and assume the respon­sibilities of being competent about the business and able to select, train and terminate chief executive officers?" Jennings asks. 
which has a capacity of producing three million pens a month, said Hochstetler. A marble-colored pen machine costs $50,000 to build. 
Even the packaging is origi­nal. Using computer equipment from sophomore Tom Bolger, Hochstetler created his own graphics to package the pen in. 
"I am licensing the pending patents for five years to Chen," explained Hochstetler. 2 million pens must be sold within the next two years so that he can break even. " Walgreen could, in one purchase, order one million pens so it is not that hard to meet the goal," he said. 
On Friday Notre Dame stu­dents will get the first look at the Worm. The pen will be on sale in the LaFortune from 
10:00 a.m. -3:00 p.m. for 99 cents. 
"It's like throwing everything up in the air and not knowing when it's landing", said Hochstetler," but it's great." 
backs of our families, our con­sumers, our workers and our businesses." 
Bush has made deregulation a centerpiece of his re-election campaign, complaining that government interferes too much and is a drag on the economy. Conservatives com­plain that the president has al­lowed a proliferation of regula­tions over the last three years but acknowledge that his moratorium has had some ef­fect. 
Citizens' groups say the moratorium has had an ad­verse impact on health, safety and environmental programs, stalling or repealing 50 regula­tions. 
"Despite repeated public promises from the Bush administration that this regulatory moratorium would not affect health and safety initiatives, the administration has already endangered the public by gutting and delaying many crucial protective rules," said two watchdog groups, Public Citizen and OMB Watch. 

Thursday, April 30, 1992 
Muslims kill 22 Tamils to avenge massacre 
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka (AP) ­Muslims villagers hacked to death at least 22 Tamils in re­venge attacks hours after the massacre of 55 Muslims by the Tamil Tiger guerillas, officials said. 
Soldiers found 20 of the bod­ies in Karapola village and two others in the nearby village of Muthugala, in north-central Sri Lanka, a military official said. lie had few other details. 
Earlier, dozens of rebels in camouflage uniforms attacked a police post in the village of Aanchipathana and then used weapons left by the fleeing offi­cers to shoot and hack to death 55 Muslims, according to a po­lice official contacted by tele­phone. 
The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said 51 villagers died during the attack and four people died at a hospi­tal. Twenty-seven others were injured, said the official. 
The rebels torched some mud-and-straw huts before fleeing the farming village, the official said. Some survivors fled into the woods. 
No explanation was given for the attack. Tamil rebels often kill people opposed to their de­mand for independence or to dramatize their separatist campaign. 
Muslim youth armed by the government have retaliated by attacking Tamil civilians. 
Thousands of people have been killed since 1983 when rebels from the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam began their violent campaign for an independent homeland in the north and the east, where most Tamils live. 
Tamils, mostly Hindus, are 18 percent of Sri Lanka's 17 mil­lion people, while Muslims are 7 percent. 

The Observer page 9 
Tne Observer/Elisa Klosterman 

Serving the masses 
Pasquerilla West freshman Dana Anderson and junior Sarah Holland find some burgers at their dorm send­off picnic for residents going abroad next year. 

It's about time you got some 
PRESS! 
Too bod middies houe short sticks! Beat Michigan St.! Love, 
your Ball girls 
TAIPEI, Taiwan (AP) -Mc­Donald's closed its 57 restau­rants in Taiwan after a bomb went off in one of the fast-food outlets Wednesday, the third explosion linked to an extortion campaign. 
Police and the chain together offered $880,000 in rewards for clues leading to the capture of those responsible for the bombings. 
In the Taipei suburb of Yungho, a McDonald's manager was hospitalized in critical condition after a bomb he was inspecting blew up. 
The bomb had been discovered by a worker on the ceiling in the restaurant's men's room. Flying glass from the explosion also hurt two children, police said. 
Two hours later, police were called to defuse a bomb at a McDonald's in downtown Taipei. 
On Tuesday, a policeman was killed when he tried to defuse a bomb inside the men's room of a McDonald's restaurant, and another bomb exploded in a telephone booth across from the McDonald's in Koahsiung, southern Taiwan. 
Police said the two bombs that exploded Tuesday were mercury-tilt bombs. The bombs, used frequently by the Irish Republican Army in Northern Ireland, are set off when moved. 


 QUEEN  
 
 
CD  
16.99  
TAPE  
10.99  THE HAMMES  
NOTRE DAME  QUEEN THE WORKS  
BOOKSTORE  
..on the campus..  ~  
~  

-~-~ ~ --~----~---~--~-----·------~---"~­
page 10 The Observer Thursday, April 30, 1992 
TO ALL MEMBERS OF THE FACULTY 
~pril 28, 1992 
Dear Colleagues, 
am writing this letter in keeping with the initiatives 
ecently announced to give the faculty a greater stake 
'n the governance of the university. Specifically, this 
will be the first annual letter by the provost to the 
acuity concerning the financial situation of the 
university. 
I. Requests and Expenditures 
~et me begin with the budget system itself. For the ~ake of simplicity, I will assume that the primary budget units in question are the departments and colleges, although similar descriptions would apply to other academic units such as university institutes, 
he library, computing, the press and so on. In starting the budget process for a coming year, chairs are responsible for articulating the needs oftheir departments to the dean. The dean in turn prioritizes Lhese needs as well as those of the college as a whole and then presents them to the provost. Mter all the 
equests of the academic units have been received by ILhe provost, and following a lengthy and tedious process which I will describe in a moment, a budget allocation for the college is finally arrived at and ~ven to the dean who in tum makes allocations to 
he departments. (Starting with the coming year, ~allege councils will play a consultative role in !determining the priorities of the dean and, in the ~pirit of openness, will have access to financial 'nformation on a need-to-know basis.) As might be !expected, budget allocations are invariably smaller 
han budget requests. Nevertheless it is the !responsibility of the dean and hence of the chairs to ive within their allocations. 
!Returning to the flow of requests from the academic units to the provost, the provost takes the requests to 
he budget committee of the university. This committee, which is chaired by the executive vice president, consists of: 
Timothy O'Meara, Kenna Professor of Mathematics 
and Provost; 
E. William Beauchamp, CSC, Executive Vice President; 
Roger Schmitz, Keating-Crawford Professor of 
Chemical Engineering and Vice President and 
Associate Provost; 
!Patricia O'Hara, Professor of Law and Vice President ifor Student Affairs; 
frhomas Mason, Vice President for Business Affairs; 
!William Sexton, Professor of Management and Vice !President for University Relations; 
!Nathan Hatch, Professor of History and Vice !President for Graduate Studies and Research. 
frhe comptroller, Fred Baumer, also participates in ILhe meetings. 
!Here are the kinds of requests that have to be ~onsidered: more faculty and staff positions; !Percentage increments for salaries and for non-salary ~osts; the high rate of inflation for library acquisitions 
15.0% for serials for next year); more and better ~tipends for graduate students; the high rate of · nflation for medical insurance ( 17.0% for next year); 
he cost of the next phase in developing the computer plan; the maintenance costs ofbuildings just completed (such as the classroom building); 
enovation plans for the residence halls and for academic buildings; annual remodeling plans for academic buildings; the capitalization cost of setting up labs for new faculty, especially in science and engineering; and other costs as well. 
II. Revenue 
Along with the consideration of needs, there is also a projection of anticipated revenue. The basic components in this analysis are: total enrollments; tuition; short-term investments; indirect cost recovery from grants; the Holy Cross community gift; income from auxiliary enterprises. Auxiliary enterprises, which include room and board, athletics, and the bookstore, are budgeted independently from the process which I am describing; they do, however, produce a net income which is factored into constructing the budget under discussion. If we consider the hopeful equation 
E=R=nT+X 

where E is the total expenditure for the year, R the total revenue, n the total enrollment, T the tuition, and X the other sources of revenue which I have just described, then E will increase for next year by 8. 7%, n by 30 net, T by 8.5%, and X will be virtually flat. The shortfall produced by the flatness of X will be made up by unrestricted gifts for the next year or two, but in the long run there is a real concern about this imbalance and thought is being given to increasing X by finding new sources ofrevenue. For purposes of comparison and simplicity, the variables in the above analysis have been interpreted in such a way as to reflect on-going changes in the budget system which are motivated in part by the goal of eliminating ofT­budget items described in Section IV. 
As you are well aware, there is a general concern at Notre Dame as well as in the rest of the country about the cost of a college education, and we are making a concerted effort to keep the percentage gap between increased tuition (8.5%) and inflation (3.5%) as small as possible. Anticipated percentage increases reflecting concerns of the Trustees are as follows: 
TUITION  ROOM AND BOARD  TOTAL  
1991-92  9.0%  6.0%  8.3%  
1992-93  8.5%  6.0%  8.0%  
1993-94  7.9%  6.0%  7.5%  
1994-95  7.9%  6.0%  7.5%  
1995-96  7.9%  6.0%  7.5%  

Since T is the major portion of the equation, it follows that the budget is tuition driven. 
III. Final Authorization 
The recommendations of the budget committee are taken to the president and then the trustees for consideration and approval. 
IV. Other Kinds of Budgets 
My main concern in this first letter is to give you an overview of the regular budgetary system ofthe university-the so-called unrestricted accounts. I should, however, say a few words about the existence of some other budget categories. 
Sponsored Programs. These do not enter directly into the normal budget process. They come under the jurisdiction of the vice president for graduate studies and research. 
Endowment Accounts. These are special accounts, for example, for chaired professors, institutes, and so on. The endowments themselves fluctuate according to market conditions and, until a few years ago, so did the earnings. The earnings have now been stabilized in the interest of predictability with a steady growth rate of 3.5% per annum on earnings. This rate of growth has been a source of criticism, and serious efforts are under way to find new and more lucrative ways of investing and allocating income to the users. 
OfT-Budget Items. For many years certain specific items were unbudgeted with the full expectation that they would be paid for by an end-of-year surplus in the regular budget (thanks, for example, to enrollments and interest rates that were higher than anticipated, unfilled positions, and so on). With the general tightening up of the financial situation, it is no longer reasonable to have these expectations. And so these items are being built into the regular budget system. They are the so-called surveys (remodeling of academic buildings); capitalization to set up new faculty in experimental areas; some of the development operations of the university; and cost 
sharing on research grants. Let me add that an 

average cost of setting up a new scientist is $200,000 
and for an engineer $75,000. 

Soft Money. The name "soft money" covers a multitude of sins. It can refer to salaries and non­salary costs coming from grants, foundations, or individuals outside the university. For purposes of this discussion, it might include monies in the regular budget that have been released through unfilled positions or faculty going on leave (although this is not usually called soft money). There is a risk in funding ongoing operations through soft money because of the unpredictability of the source of revenue. For example, recently some external sources of revenue which appeared to be sure things were curtailed or eliminated because of difficult economic times -as a case in point, the entire income of $250,000 for one of our centers evaporated. As another example, one of the contributing causes of the budget problem in arts and letters was the excessive use of soft money to pay the salaries ofadjuncts and part-time faculty -in this instance the soft money came from unfilled regular positions which, thanks to a tough job market, were being filled aggressively by our departments, thereby depleting one of the college's sources of soft money. I think we would be selling ourselves short if we were to abandon totally the idea of soft money. But we will have to have a better handle on how it is used, on its predictability, and on the fallback position if it should dry up. 
Y. The Computing Plan 

The development of the computing plan on campus is a good and perhaps first illustration of how to apply long-range planning to achieve a strategic need. There were two essential components to the plan-1) increase the annual operating budget of university computing by $4.7 million, and 2) provide $13.8 million up-front for one-time capitalization for computing over a period of four years. Step 1) has been accomplished through a repeated increase of 1.0% of tuition over five consecutive years. This is illustrated in the following table. 
Computing Upgrade -Operations Tuition Increases Committed to Plan 

Annual Add-Ons Cumulative Add-Ons 
1988-89 800,00 800,000 1989-90 900,000 1,700,000 1990-91 900,000 2,600,000 1991-92 1,000,000 3,600,000 1992-93 1,100,000 4,700,000 
1993-and on 0 4,700,000 
Step 2) is being accomplished by borrowing from unrestricted gifts and Sorin contributions over four years with a payback from tuition over seven years, as is illustrated by the following table. 
Computing Upgrade -Capital Unrestricted Gifts and Sorin Contributions 

From/(To)  From  
Annual Costs  Working Capital  Tuition  
1988-89  $4,800,000  $4,800,000  $  0  
1989-90  5,200,000  4,300,000  900,000  
1990-91  3,100,000  2,150,000  950,000  
1991-92  700,000  (300,000)  1,000,000  
1992-93  0  (1,100,000)  1,100,000  
1993-94  0  (1,200,000)  1,200,000  
1994-95  0  (1,350,000)  1,350,000  
Totals  $13,800,000  $7,300,000  $6,500,000  

Note that Step 2) is but one illustration of the constructive use of the transfers. There are others. Two more examples follow in Section VI. 
VI. Academic Building Renovation Program 
Several years ago the university embarked on a 

Thursday, April 30, 1992 The Observer 
dormitory renovatiOn program which was h.mded by increasing the room and board fee. The increase was staged over a three-year period and at the present time amounts to $275 per student and generates $1.8 million per year. This program has been successful, and current plans are to continue the use ofthe funds to upgrade one dormitory each summer. 
More recently the university extended the program to the renovation of academic buildings. The idea here was an extra $100 fee for room and board staged in over five years which would generate $3.25 million per year by 1992-93. The cumulative effect ofthis funding is currently $2.6 million per annum. The final figure of $3.25 million which should have been reached in 1992-93 is being delayed because oftight budgetary conditions. 
VII. Salary Philosophy 
A decade ago the university set the following goal for faculty salaries: Achieve a Number 1 AAUP salary rating for each ofthe professorial ranks among all Category I universities. This goal was reached at each rank in 1984/85 and has been maintained ever since. A Number 1 rating means being in the top 20% of the approximately 190 reporting schools in Category I, i.e. it requires being placed among the 38 best paid universities in the country. In actual fact, for 1991-92 the university was placed among the top 20 schools at each of the three ranks. The university was also well placed overall for compensation, i.e. for salaries and fringes combined. The guiding policy is to remain comfortably placed among the top 38 schools in the salary part of the AAUP survey. Recent studies have shown that if cost of living were taken into account, faculty salaries at Notre Dame would be placed at the very top. Our history in salary and compensation is reflected in the following tables. (The 1991-92 information is preliminary.) 
AVERAGE A.A.U.P SALARY-PROFESSORS 
~  ~  ln5titutiQn  
92,200  1  Harvard University  
90,900  2  Cal. Inst. ofTech.  
88,200  3  Princeton University  
86,500  4  Stanford University  
86,100  5  Yale University  
83,900  6  M.I.T.  
83,300  7  U. of Chicago  
'82,000  8  Columbia U. (main)  
81,200  9  New York University  
80,400  10  U. ofPennsylvania  
80,300  11  Georgetown University  
79,900  12  Rutgers U. (New Brunswick)  
79,600  13  Duke University  
79,100  14  Northwestern University  
78,900  15  Carnegie-Mellon U.  
78,300  16  U. of Southern California  
77,900  17  U. of California (Berkeley)  
76,300  18  U. of California (LA)  
76,300  19  Vanderbilt University  
75,600  20  U. of Notre Dame  
75,500  21  Johns Hopkins University  
75,400  22  Rice University  
75,100  23  Claremont Graduate School  
~4,900 olleges  24  Cornell U. Endowed  
74,100  25  Lehigh University  
73,700  26  SUNY at Stony Brook  
73,600  27  U. of California (SD)  
73,600  28  U. ofRochester  
73,500  29  George Mason University  
73,500  30  SUNY at Buffalo  
73,300  31  Dartmouth College  
73,300  32  U. of Michigan (Ann Arbor)  
72,800  33  U. of California (SB)  
72,600  34  Washington University  
72,200  35  U. of California (Irvine)  
72,100  36  Tufts University  
71,200  37  SUNY at Albany  
71,000  38  American University  
70,900  39  Fordham University  
70,800  40  U. of Maryland (Baltimore)  
70,700  41  Rensselaer Poly. Institute  
70,700  42  U. of Virginia (main)  
70,600  43  Emory University  
70,500  44  Brown University  
70,300  45  U. of California (Davis)  
69,900  46  Boston College  

SUMMARY OF AVERAGE SALARY UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Er2f~li!ii2r As!i!Q~. ~[Qf, &!!:!'!, ~[Qf, ~~ ~ 
~~~ 
1991/92 75,600 20 52,800 20 44,700 17 1990/91 72,400 23 50,500 28 42,600 20 1989/90 69,100 21 47,000 33 40,800 16 1988/89 65,700 20 44,500 27 38,300 16 1987/88 60,700 25 42,400 22 35,800 16 1986/87 56,000 32 40,600 23 33,700 23 1985/86 52,000 32 38,400 11 31,300 20 1984/85 48,000 35 36,400 11 29,500 16 1983/84 44,200 38 34,000 14 27,700 12 1982/83 40,700 53 31,300 21 25,100 18 1978179 28,000 94 21,600 62 17,100 90 
SUMMARY OF AVERAGE COMPENSATION (Salary plus Fringe) UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
PrQf~li!iiQ[ As52~. PrQf, As!ii't, Pr2f !dmL. ~ !&Ill. ~!&Ill.~ 
1991192 92,900 21 66,600 19 54,100 21 1990/91 89,000 24 62,900 27 51,500 25 1989/90 83,700 24 57,400 42 48,200 35 1988/89 79,600 23 54,900 32 45,800 30 1987/88 73,300 26 51,700 31 42,200 40 1986/87 68,400 35 49,800 26 40,100 35 
VIII. The Current Budget Year 
Early in the academic year, projections showed that we could anticipate difficulty in staying in the black in a few ofthe academic budget units of the university. I then asked for a freeze on current hires until the situation could be thoroughly evaluated. Further analysis showed that we could anticipate an overrun of $450,000 in arts and letters and $100,000 in business administration. The contributing factors in arts and letters were these: a reduction in faculty teaching loads in the college followed by a period of increased enrollment; introduction of a university­wide fine arts/literature requirement without enough additional faculty; internal soft money problems arising as described in Section IV In the case of business administration, the difficulty arose in part from external soft money problems. Furthermore, our problems had been compounded by overconfident expectations by chairs and deans derived from the introduction of a five-year plan approach to budgeting. Mter a period of six weeks, ways were found to handle the budget problem for the current year and the hiring freeze was removed. 
IX. The Coming Year 
The next table uses the format ofthe five-year strategic plan for revenues. 
Salaries (4.0%) and Benefit Increases 4.5 Non-Salary (2.0%) Increases 1.0 Computing-Long Term Plan 1.0 New Building-DeBartolo 0.7 Academic Enhancements 0.8 Other Special Allocations 0.5 
Tuition Increase 8.5 
The column on the right refers to the percentage increase in tuition (not to the percentage increase in the underlying budget), while the numbers on the left (such as the 2.0% increase in non-salary costs) refer to the increase in that particular budget. The table therefore shows the distribution of new monies for the coming fiscal year, bearing in mind all the caveats described in the equation E =R =nT + X in Section 
II. Translating the percentages in the column into dollars and considering subsequent adjustments that were made, we obtained approximately $1.1 million for academic enhancements and approximately $1.1 million for the computing plan. The following goals guided the distribution of new resources once they were allocated to the provost's office: 
1. 
No cutbacks in college and other major budgets; 

2. 
No cutbacks in substance; 

3. 
Honor firm commitments; 

4. 
Salaries for faculty, staff and students should have priority over non-salary costs. 


As for salary increments: 
5. 
Adhere to the AAUP salary philosophy in Section VII; 

6. 
Average raises should exceed cost of living increases (3.5%). 


page11 
ln order to achieve these goals and live Withm our resources, it proved necessary to keep non-salary costs flat across the board, i.e. it was necessary to apply Item 4. The main exceptions that were made were these: library acquisitions; chemicals for undergraduate labs; overseas programs, because of inflation; and, of course, the final realization of the computer plan. Major distributions of new monies were approximately as follows: 
1. 
$800,000 to arts and letters to normalize the budget; 

2. 
Between $110,000 and $150,000 to each ofthe remaining colleges, to the law school and to the graduate school; 

3. 
$175,000 for acquisitions in all the libraries including the law library; 

4. 
$1,100,000 for the computing plan. 


(The watchful arithmetic eye might sense that more money was distributed by the provost's office than was received, but that is not the case.) 
What about raises? The average for continuing faculty is 3.9% across the board for salaries, 4.8% for total compensation, i.e. for salaries plus fringes. (For library faculty the salary increases average 4.0%.) As things turn out, 11% of faculty salary raises are 2.9% or below, 59% are between 3.0% and 3.9%, 14% are between 4.0% and 4.9%, and 16% are above 5.0%. Factors which enter into determining raises are these: the total amount available for a particular rank; merit as determined by the chair, reviewed by the dean and monitored by the provost; the relative size of a person's base pay as compared to others in the department; the absolute size of a person's base pay with individuals at the upper end likely to get smaller increases than those at the lower end. With these raises I am certain that we will maintain our Number 1 AAUP ratings and pretty sure that we will maintain our placement among the top 17 to 25 schools. 
X. The Future 
The future will obviously be determined largely by the basic budget for 1992-93. Considering the distributions of Section IX we see that the 0.7 figure for DeBartolo will disappear but will have to be replaced by a comparable figure for the new business building and subsequently by another comparable figure for the performing arts center. Relief will be obtained from the completion of the computer plan, 
i.e. the 1.0 figure will become 0. And the arts and letters budget will have been stabilized. On the revenue side, indirect costs and interest rates might improve, but that is only speculation. A better working assumption is that the X factor in the equation E = R = nT + X will remain flat. The rate of increase ofT is scheduled to go down from 8.5% to 7.9%. 
My overall position is that we are in sound financial shape, which will certainly permit us to continue doing what we are doing and, indeed, to move forward, though not at the pace which we had anticipated a year ago. (Actually, this is good when compared with the stagnation, cutbacks, even draconian cutbacks being imposed at a number of other institutions.) It will also be necessary in the future to pay closer attention in prioritizing new growth. At the same time, we will have to reconsider current priorities throughout the entire university system. Ultimately we will also have to reconsider the rates of change ofthe variables n, T and X in the operating budget, we will have to sharply focus our priorities in the Colloquy, and we will have to translate these priorities into firm goals for the next capital campaign. 
The question then is not about our financial viability but rather about how best to reach our potential. The success of the university over the past 150 years has been a result of our own special blend of vision and common sense. This letter by its very nature errs on the side of common sense. The real question is how to focus the vision of an energetic and talented faculty which is ready, willing, able, and indeed restless to move forward. 
Yours sincerely, 
Timothy O'Meara Provost 

Viewpoint 
Page 12 Thursday, April30, 1992 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor.......••....•.•••.... David Kinney Advertising Manager ..•..... Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor..••............. .Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor •.....•...•.. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blas1 Accent Editor ....•••..... Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager ..........•... Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ..•.................. Dan Shinnick Saint Mary"s Editor..Anna Marie Tabor Controllar ....•••...•......•...... David Beliveau 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editonals represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor. Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters and lns1de Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
Modest proposals for the Catholic 'intellectoids' 
J. J. Carberry A Pariah's Perspective 

Your Pariah at du Lac here with submits a set of Swiftian solutions to recent campus is­sues. 
(1) 
Varsity Wrestling has been abolished. Solution? -make that sport not only co-Ed, but invite participation of our Gays­Lesbians of ND/SMC. All matches should transpire in a modestly nooded NO Stadium. A new era for PC mud wrestling, which NBC is certain to -excuse the term -leap upon. Roseanne will sing our National Multicultural Anthem and the NO band will play "Smoke gets in your eyes." Seats are guaranteed via the ACC-Hobustelli Travel Agency. 

(2) 
Admission to any one of the rich courses offered by our College of Arts and Letters is also guaranteed by the ACC­Hobustelli connection. For a mere $418 (per credit hour? Perhaps) no course will be de­nied you. And, you secure 2 nighl<> reservation in an Elkhart motel. Travel costs are extra. 


(3) 
The alleged one-half mil­lion dollar deficit in the A & L CollegE' will be quickly erased by profits gained via propositions (1) and (2) above. Thereby our baseball program can, with a straight face, justify their recently announced award of seven (7) more, four (4) year athletic scholarships (total cost: over one-half million dollars). 

(4) 
Our Feminoids at du Lac suffer for lack of right-to­Ordination (my favorite women, of history and the moment, never much liked taking orders). Solution? Hedesignate the Church as Father Church. Inflict du Lac's non-smoking policy upon the Vatican: thus straw (wet or dry) will be prohibited to announce the election of future popes. The end of the papacy! This should please Pope (of the "American Church") McBrien. 


These modest proposals will signal the final triumph of our Politically Correct Catholic I ntellectoids. Cheers. 



DOONESBURV 
91Ufll/3TH/3 8:Jf5{£{M05T 
a:= ~mm­710N. ~£3'5 
RZt/NG 5fOI<T-
Dear Editor: 

I attended a rally on April 23 in which a number of student organizations declared their reasons for opposing the ad­ministrations decision to invite President Bush to be the com­mencement speaker. I protested the rally by displaying a sign with "Americans for Bush" written on it. 
The rally's organizer asked me to give some opposing view­points at the microphone at the conclusion of the speeches. Due to other commitments, I had to leave the rally before I was to speak. I wanted to take this opportunity, however, to state those views I hold I would have made at the rally. 
The problems facing this country are too great to waste time protesting Bush being the commencement speaker. Hegardless of who the University had chosen, some group of students would have found something else to protest about that individual. Come on, peoph~! The leader of the free world is bestowing an honor upon Notre Dame by accepting the ofTcr to be our commence­ment speaker. 
Many of my friends at other colleges would kill to have Bush speak at their commencement. Personally, I'd love to meet him. I do not agree with the policies of Bill Clinton, Jerry Brown, and Pat Buchanan, hut I would be honored to meet these men because of their importance in America today. 
If you want to change the world, as another writer to the Observer recently suggested, don't protest Bush at Notre Dame -go out and plant a tree, join a political action group, or do something else more pro­ductive than whining. 
One of the speakers referred to General Norman Schwarzkopf as a "murderer" and accused the United States Armed Forces of being "proud of its 300 to 1 kill ratio in the Gulf War." 
As and Army IWTC cadet, I take personal offense to such commenl~ about the profession I plan to serve. The speaker was ignorant enough about history to incorrectly think that wars serve no other purpose but to kill people. Such views are commonly held by people on the nve of America's involvP­ment in World War II. 
Such pacifist ignorance is what led to the estimated 52 million dead of that conflict. People have to realize that wars, sometimes, have to be fought. No one in their right mind likes war, but wars are occasionally necessary to make the world a better place. World War II and the Civil War arn examples of this. 

A large military docs not cause wars; it prevents them. The one thing that has pre­vented a NATO/Warsaw Pact war in Europe is the presence of enough nuclear firepower on both sides to destroy the world thirty times over. When nations become weak, they make themselves targets for con­quest. 
Even in these post-Cold War days there is still a need for a sizeable military force. The political situation in the Commonwealth of Independent States is unstable enough that, as demonstrated last August, a coup could easily occur that would restore to power a gov­ernment hostile to the West. 
No matter how bad economic situations become in the U.S., no recession can do as much harm to Americans as terrorisl<> obtaining nuclear weapons from former Soviet republics. America still needs an armed forces second-to-none. 
President Bush is far from perfect, but his skill in foreign affairs and his ability to unite the world makes him the best man for President. The thought of Buchanan, Clinton, Brown, or Perot as "leader of the free world" scares me. 
Andrew J. DeKever St. Edward's Hall 
April 24, 1992 
'Let's save our American companies first' 
Dear Editor:  countries selling approximately  to America's.  
Many American companies  one  hundred billion dollars  (2) Immediately put a stop to  
have moved to foreign  coun­ more annually to the United  so called "free trade," which  
tries, taking advantage of lower  States than they buy from us!!  has been a disaster to American  
wage scales-their products are  (1) Immediately stop all pur­ manufacturers.  
sold in the United States at  chases from foreign countries  John O'Ban  
prices that bring them huge  until they pay their workers  Capitola, California  
profits,  resulting  in  these  wages and benefits comparable  Aprll15, 1992  
GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  

JU5TA MINI!Te, tRNI/3. MRS. !X()NI35BIJtzy, THAT5 
Yt5,BY
JU5T CRAZY. ~AU.., 
AU-MffANS,
I'MA FtlrfAteMYSelF. 
ter5FINI?
IFANY7HING, I MVOR 
OUT.
TH/36/W! 
/ 
'There is no man so good, who, were he to submit all his thoughts and actions to the laws, would not deserve hanging ten times.' 
Michel de Montaigne 
We won't htJng you. Submtt: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND IN 46556 

.....
Viewpoint
Thursday, April30, 1992 Page 13 
Du Lac 'sexuality clause' is out of touch with reality 
"... betwixt between the East crazy dudes, and so [he] was a and West he calls on her wear­real f---up." On the other Guy Loranger ing leather vest/ the earth hand, Juliette was a straight A It's a Dogma eat Dogma World squeals and shudders to a halt/ student, fairly attractive a diamond crucifix in his ear is (although it was difficult to tell who was lost in his thoughts, used to help ward offthefear .. beneath the five pounds of concentrating on the . [and]... .clean the mess that make-up that caked her face), overweight sop across from him he has dropped into the and she had won an art schol­who was sprawled out in his lithesome life of Juliette Bell! arship to the state university in seat, snoring obnoxiously while 
and Romeo wanted Juliette/ Terre Haute. the old lady next to him gazed and Juliette wanted Romeo .. " However, despite their youth blankly out the window, her life 
Romeo clenched tightly the fist and perhaps blessed naivete, packed into the nylon hand bag of his Juliette while the the couple had fallen very much at her feet and the trashy Greyhound bus sped in love with each other and had discount novel resting upon her menacingly down the interstate brought into the world a baby lap. highway, headed for "Kokomo­girl, now eight months old, liv­Romeo tried to return the !nd ianapolis-Terre II aute-and ing with Juliette's grandparents smile to Juliette, but it seemed points South," corn fields after in Terre Haute, where the cou­pointless. He knew they were 
corn fields flying past his win­ple planned to spend at least both nervous about their future, dow, large farmhouses with two the next four years of their relationship, child, and if tractor garages each with a lives. everything was some kind of basketball hoop attached to the Romeo was going to find a sad mistake. Juliette clenched 
side, children vigorously playing day job and attend night school his fist tightly, and the bus con­beneath a blazing sun, corn so he could get his diploma tinued to wind its way down the fields after corn fields and still while Juliette strove towards road. six more hours to go, sad her degree. They knew it would Maybe the couple's humble impressions entering his mind be tough, but they had the love determination to succeed was of a life doomed in a small of their family and each other to an oddity in these hyped-up 
town. see them through. times of sexual frustration, and 
Romeo had dropped out of Unrealistic? Who knows? maybe they were just in love. I high school when he was a Juliette wiped the beads of per­didn't really know anything freshman because he had been spiration from her forehead and about it then, observing them "running with some pretty feigned a smile for her Romeo, from across the aisle on the 
Thursday's Verse 
For the Disciples of Kerouac and Affiliated Ramblers 
So you think 'ol Jackie had it right, eh? So you think the highest end of poetpriest is to crystallize the climax, the surge? Or is Morrison the newest idol dug up for our adoration? The Nietzchean superman? 
Yass, Yass, Dean Moriarty. I, too, am none too pleased with this homogenized, mass-produced, mass-consumed humanity, all safe and secure in its televised dreams behind the soundproof walls of gunpoint insecurity ...but what did you get for the trade-in? Only a lot o' high speed neurosis, abandoned children, endless lonely migration from bar to bar, bed to bed, partaking of the rank and swelling sexpie, culminating in passage across a Dionysian Styx (polluted with your choice of intoxicants). 
Is that the best we could do? 
Shout "No!" if you are not yet dead 
Blessed be the Buddha, the Christ on I lis cross, Krishna. Lao-Tsu! 
Love to the saints of all ages! To Francis. to Teresa. to John in his dark night, to Zen masters smiling onward! 
Praise to those who know the soul! Praise to Socrates! 
God bless the amorous poets! Glory to Blake and Wordsworth! Encomiums for Emerson, Thoreau. and you, too, Walt Whitman! 
God be praised for beautiful progeny! (and what in creation is not a child of God, after all?) 
Grant us always the unspoiled wisdom of songbird. 
by PaulRowe Saint Edward's Hall 
Radioactive Caribou 

Bugs dance under my eyelids, and .Stars light up my toes. Melting pancakes run off plates and Where th.ey land who knows. 
Flagella sprouting tube socks is Quite a sight to see, But if I had my druthers, i'd Be forced to choose to be. 
Matthew J. Lamberti Grace Hall 
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA~A~A~AhAAAAA~AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA~~A 
AA/\AA 
Thursday's Verse 
P.O. BoxQ ND, IN 46556 

bus, ( I, myself going to some godforsaken summer camp) and I can't honestly say that I do now. 
What I do know is that sexu­ality has become the hottest topic in the early 90's. From the raging debate about abor­tion (the second Civil War), AIDS, birth control, rape, date rape, acquaintance rape, homo­sexuality, sexual harassment, bisexuality, kids having kids, or adults paying other adults to have their kids. 
The other night I even saw on some late night tabloid news program the editor of Cosmopolitan Magazine give her "State of the Sexual Union" address in which she claimed that men and women would be) wearing skimpier clothing in a teasing "look but no touch" fashion, relationships were out, pornography was in, and voyeurism was the safest vice around in an era of AIDS panic. I would be lying if I said that this synthetically-passioned woman made me sick, because she only made me laugh at how foolish our society has taken to sexuality. 
Almost every talk show host has dedicated one program or at least seven more to the "epi­demic" of youth sexuality: pregnancies, condoms dis­tributed at schools, diseases, and how awful the dilemma of dating has become that every­one needs a car, money, and a healthy looking body (hence pubic anorexics, bulimics, and steroid freaks) to survive. 
We have been virtually brain­washed into believing that someone like Phil Donahue, Tom Brokaw, or Oprah Winfrey can capture the essence of our generation in isolated cases that are blown into such epic proportions that a sexual crisis is declared. Even a show like Beverly Hills 90210, the Brady Bunch of the 90's, attempts to put on an act that they can re­flect the everyday sexuality of young men and women, but it's only a fairy tale picture. 
The true vicar of sexuality, 
however, lies in Romeo and 
Juliette, Shakespeare's angst­
ridden couple smoking ci­
garettes in the Indianapolis bus 
terminal, waiting for a transfer 
that would take them to the 
promised land of Terre Haute, 
telling me their mad, lovesick 
stories. As I think back to the 
couple, it occurs to me how 
ridiculous it is that Notre Dame 
has followed in the nation's 
distorted sexual frenzy. 
I'm reminded of Patty O'Hara 
welcoming the class of 1995 
with a powerful, moving, and 
dramatic speech in which she 
cried out, "There will be no 
premarital sex at the University 
of Notre Dame." Her voice was 
trembling, her fists clenched; 
and her eyes bore the look of a 
gallant and fierce warrior of the 
90's, sent to Notre Dame to rid 
the campus of the sexual demon 
which haunts everyone within. 
Ms. O'Hara, and her army of 
Student Affairs zealots, has 
armed herself with the mighty 
Du Lac sexuality clause ("a 
genuine and complete expres­
sion of love through sex re­
quires a commitment to a total 
living and sharing together or 
two persons in mar­
riage .... students found in viola­tion of this policy shall be sub­ject to suspension or dis­missal"), parietals, and a ve­hement defiance of ever-estab­lishing co-ed 'housing on cam­pus. 
Granted, her intentions are well meant, adhering to Catholic morals. However, a stilT hand is not the means of conveying these morals, and is unproductive in its goals. 
The Administration feels as if they know what is best for the loyal sons and daughter's of Notre Dame, but are clueless as to the actuality of their oppres­sive ways. 
Also, the administration claims that only total commit­ments to living together, in marriage, are acceptable, but the only married student hous­ing is hidden away in a remote area far from campus, resem­bling some kind of downtown Lebanon housing project. 
Furthermore, Du Lac is hypo­critical , in an obvious attempt go along with the Catholic Church and conservative poli­tics' pro-life stance. when the book states that a student who becomes pregnant can "continue the lives of their un­born children without sacrific­ing their educational or career goals." 
However, doesn't the sexuality code some fifty pages earlier in the book scare students from approaching any university of­ficial about their "dilemma?" 
Perhaps the administration, when confronted by a pregnant student, does not expel her and the father, but feels it best that the couple should leave school for awhile and handle some­thing as beautiful and sacred as bringing a life into the world, among their families, who would undoubtedly look at the situation as a "disaster." 
When looking at the adminis­
tration's shady policy and the 
conservative candidates who 
they endorse, preaching from 
pompous pulpits, like George 
Bush, that we should protect 
the life of a fetus. I am appalled 
that they cannot decide on a 
manner to sanely handle the 
child's life once it has come into 
the world, like a national child 
care system, regulated mater­
nity leaves, or simply handling 
student's with more compas­
sion. 
There were only two seats left 
on the Greyhound that we were 
to transfer on going to Terre 
Haute, so I did the shabbily no­
ble thing and stayed behind to 
watch Romeo and Juliette leave, 
18 years old the both of them 
going on blindly and nervously 
into adulthood, but they were 
going on with their lives at least 
Maybe they were sinners and 
outcasts in a society that is in­
creasingly distorting and per­
verting the sacredness of hu­
man sexuality while using the 
birth of a child as some sort of 
political toy. 
I didn't know then, and I really 
don't know any more now, but 
o_n that day, I saw something 
special in Romeo and Juliette, 
and "something flickered for a 
minute/ and then it vanished 
and was gone." 
Guy Loranger is a freshman in the College of Arts and Letters and is also an Assistant Viewpoint Editor. 


Accent 
page 14 Thursday, April 30, 1992 
Making a statement 
Students' stories behind vanity plates 

Joe Guariglia, a Zahm Hall resident 
from New York, and his hallmate Allan 
Marques from Virginia have similar 
plates-"ND 93 ND" and "NO 93" 
respectively. 
According to Marques, he chose his message as a testimony of his love of the school, "plus I saw a couple of others plates like it," he added. 
When other students or people who support the University drive by, they see the tags and honk and wave, said Guariglia. 
Badin sophomore Aurelie Gallagher hasn't been so lucky. 
''I'm given a hard time by my friends," said Gallagher whose "NO 94" plates were a gift from her father, a 1971 alum. 
"A lot of people think they are real cheesy, but I like them," she added . 
The process for obtaining a personalized license plates is "very simple," according to Allan Hayes of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles Help Line. 
In Indiana, a person can only order a tag from November 1 to December 31. During that time, interested individuals should call their local license branch with a few choice messages in mind. The branch will have access to which "alpha­numeric patterns are available," said Hayes. 
Once the pattern is chosen, the individual must go to the office and pay a fee for $40 over and above the excise and registration tax, said Hayes. Fees in other states may vary, he added. 
Paying the fee is the easy part. 
Finding an available pattern may be a little more difficult, especially for those interested in the ND variations. 
Noelle Hies, a Farley sophomore, said she originally wanted "UNO 94." 
That didn't work. 
She tried ND 94. 
That didn't work either. 
She tried UN ND 94. 
It worked-almost. The first time they sent her the plates they said "UN ND 49." She sent them back and finally received the correct plates. The whole process took about two months. 
"Getting personalized license plates requires patience," said Allan Hayes. But owners of personalized tags seem to think they're worth the wait. 

.. 
By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH 
Assistant Accent Editor 
I 
n an age when a car is supposed to reveal deep insight into a person's character, Notre Dame students are letting their license plates do the talking. 
From a ND volleyball team member's slamming message "N YR FACE" to replacing the "My other car is in the shop" bumper sticker with "REX BOAT," campus parking lots are quickly becoming a vehicle for the personal voice. 
Rex Rempel, a junior from Kansas, is proud of his "personalized tag." He's even prouder of his car. 
"It's a '67 Oldsmobile and it's huge," he said. "It's enormous. It sits six in the back without touching shoulders. It was originally owned by my grandmother, but she put no miles on it." 
Rempel went straight to the Department of Motor Vehicles to order his license plate when he "inherited" the car. Now "everyone knows its mine," he said. 
But "REX BOAT" is more than just a description of Rempel's car; its a reflection of Rempel himself. "It's close to my nickname-'Rex Bo,"' he explained. 
Dillon junior John Thurston is from a small town in Illinois. 
He bought his personalized plate "THURSTN" three years ago thinking it would be "nice to be identified." 
The idea of a different kind of license plate appeals to Thurston, but he admits that at times he wishes he had a little anonymity. 
With a personalized plate "people definitely know who you are," he said. "It can be a pain." 
"The next car I get, I'll probably put something 'NDish' on the plates," he added. "After a while you get kind of paranoid if the car is too much a reflec­tion of yourself rather than of something else." 
A number of students seem to agree. 
On Campus, "NO (insert graduating year)" or some such variation is by far the most popular of all personalized li­cense plates. 
Accent
Thursday, April 30, 1992 page 15 

Brother Conan 'Bookstore' Moran leaves a Notre Dame legacy behind 

By SARAH DORAN 
Accent Writer 

Brother Conan Moran was the colorful Irish character consid­ered a legend on campus who combined a flair for merchandis­ing with a delightful personality and worked for the Notre Dame Bookstore for 50 years, 40 of them as its manager. 
Moran passed away last week at the age of 83. 
"He was a bright, friendly man filled with humor," said Father Carl Ebey, a fellow Congregation of the Holy Cross member at NO. "He paid attention to the students and remembered them as they came back as alumni. 
He was a considerate and compassionate man who always showed up for the celebrations, weddings, wakes and funerals of faculty members and other staff,"said Ebey. 
Brother "Bookstore," as he was affectionately known in the Notre Dame community, lived in student dorms from 1938 until 1989, most recently in Fisher Hall. 
He was assistant rector in several residence halls including Fisher and Breen-Phillips and he also spent time in Cavanaugh, Pangborn, Sorin, and Dillon Halls. 
Conan once said that his rec­toring was reminiscent of a dif­ferent time and place and that the rules were strict before the 1970s. For example, he enforced order by putting to end a hall ritual that involved the orches­trated slamming of doors at 11 p.m. 
"I asked them to slam their doors at 6 a.m. In those days you had the authority to tell them to do things like that. And I knew they'd get killed by the ones who wanted to sleep. It ended their fooling around," he said. 
Moran became associated with the bookstore in 1939 when he was assigned to it as an assistant to then manager Brother Meinrad Secord. 
The store that he began working in was then situated in Badin Hall crammed into 5,000 square feet and sharing space with a barber shop and dry cleaner. 
Brother Moran was the man­ager when the new Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, a $250,000 gift from Mr. and Mrs. Romy Hammes, was dedicated Friday, September 23, 1955. 
At the time, the bookstore was one of the largest and most modern collegiate institutions in the country. It opened with a basement of 10 bowling alleys and a campus branch of Gilbert's, a popular South Bend men's store. 
In time, Moran's operations took control of the bowling alley space and in 1976 Gilbert's moved out. 
Larry Ratliff, .the current bookstore manager who was an assistant under Conan for 11 years, remembers him as "a very quiet man. Once you get to know him, though, he's warm and caring. He just doesn't show it to everyone." 
Moran was known to remem­ber many alumni, especially those who are past bookstore employees. He remembered not just their names but was quite conversant on what they were doing, said Ratliff. 
John Nealon '53 paid for his education by working in the bookstore. "They're just wasn't enough he could do for you," said Nealon. After graduation Nealon worked as a college football official. When assigned to work Notre Dame games, he'd look for Moran at Mass and then go off to breakfast with him at Corby Hall. 
"It was our little secret-that I was refereeing the day's game," said Nealon, adding "and it gave him great satisfaction to have something special on the others at Corby." 
At one time the bookstore stocked miniature Notre Dame rings that were traditional gifts of Notre Dame men to their fi­ancees. The state of romance on campus, according to Moran, could always be judged by the sales of these rings which sky­rocketed immediately after a campus prom or a return from vacation at home. 
Brother Bookstore combined business and religious life but, according to friends, tended to ,_ sound more like an entrepreneur than a man of the cloth who had accepted a vow of poverty. 
He averaged a 60-hour week during football weekends. Even after retirement in 1989, he helped with the mail order and ring businesses. 
Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice president to the vice president for student affairs, said that she often "would see him just walk­ing around the bookstore greet­ing customers and helping to restock even after he officially retired." 
"Whenever you heard the name Brother Conan you thought of the bookstore,"said Lenz, adding, "he was always a wonderful, kind man with a delightful Irish brogue." 
Kelley Tuthill, Notre Dame Magazine, Our Sunday Visitor and The Chicago Tribune also contributed to this article. 

r 
... 
page 16 The Observer Thursday, April 30, 1992 
The Observer accepts classitieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline tor next-day classitieds is 3p.m. All classitieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

please call X2873 and ask lor Mary is looking for hard working and CLEARLY THE BEST CHOICE ALASKA leave Chicago on 5-24, Laura X4980 Jo. motivated students to manage their returns on 5-31, 617$ value lor
NOTICES 

own summer business. Earn up to Near N.D. quaint,clean ONLY 400$! call312-988-7964-Need 1or2 grad tix. Let's make a 
FOUND: A blue Eddie Bauer $10, 000. For more information, furnished apts. Studio-$230 leave message. deal. Ron 3315, leave message. WORD PROCESSING windbreaker on 2nd floor of please call 1-800-238-3254. 1 Bedroom-$260, deposit, 256-6657 Stanford. Call Dan-X2067 to claim references 1-800-582-9320 Selling contents of off-campus apt .. BULLS PLAYOFF TICKETS 
it. SMC '91 Grad seeks 1-2 vcr, beds, couches and more. Home Game 7 $$FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-Sat roommates Sept. -Chicago. Call 705 N.D. Ave. 3 bedroom available Call 273-1814 for specifics. 1167 Kyle Pandora's Books Lost-silver key ring with three keys Lisa eve. for summer sublet, fall semester. corner of NO ave & Howard between Knott and 1-708-848-9013. $475.00 Call234-8200. 78 Volkswagen Van Outstanding NEEDED 2 Tickets to Graduation: reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday SlEds on Sat night. Call Pete California Condition. 120/K. call Neal 283-1159 
at1698. Summer Work YOU STILL HAVE A CHANCE TO Automatic, White. $1, 750. 616­Allegro Vector Marketing is interview­SUBLET FOR THE SUMMER!! 684-7203. 2 Grad tix needed big $ CAN'T SEE??? ing students to place in South SLEEP CHEAP AT THE 'CREEK! call Bob at 277-8491 thanx A contemporary cafe with a FOUND: Pair of wire-rimmed Bend and all over the nation. CALL#3414 For sale: Racing Bike with many 
touch of the old world. glasses after bookstore finals on the Internships-Scholarships accessories. Total retail $1100. Please Help! Located in the lower level of grass. Claim at campus lost and possible. Interview in S.B. office. Hey!! I Cheapest TURTLE CREEK Asking $350 or best offer. X3718 I need one Grad. nx. LaFortune Hall. Open 24 hours a found. Call239-4700. summer housing call PETE or Will pay top dollar. day thru Thursday 5!7. BRIAN at x3414 ATTENTION STUDENTS MOVING Call Nick@ 271-0104 
LOST: S~mmer Nanny lor three children in OFF CAMPUS! I Double bed for Mary Kay Skin Care SILVER CROSS PEN WITH THE Elkhart. Must have dependable car TURTLE CREEK SUMMER sale. Bought last year at the super HELP!!! I need one grad. tix Call299-0551 wknds or NAME DANNIKA ENGRAVED ON and vaild drivers license. Salary SUBLET-PRICE NEG.; sale. $100. Call Bill at272-6189 Please call pat@ 271-0835 after 4:00 wkdys IT. IF FOUND,PLEASE CALL plus mileage. Call 262-1446 after 6. FURNISHED. 271-1399 money no object! 
x4233 OR TAKE IT TO THE For Sale: '91 Gee Metro X Fl. 
OBSERVER OFFICE. ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT SIX EFFICIENCY APTS. IN BLDG. Excellent gas mileage, 5 speed One way plane tic. SB-Denver "'THE WINNER OF THE''' -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. NEAR N.D. WILL RENT STD. 23,000 miles. $5500. Call May 9$80 Brian 287-5987 ''UGLY MAN ON CAMPUS'' LOST: 14k Gold Link Bracelet-very Free transportation! Room & Board! INDIVIDUALLY OR 30R MORE AT 277-4878. 
thin and about 112 inch wide. Over 8,000 openings. No A DISCOUNTED RATE NEED GRAD TIX! TIM LINEHAN PLEASE call if found-of great experience necessary. Male or CALL2879624 HEY YOU! TIM 289-7321 30,000 VOTES value to me. X2948 Female. For employment program call Student Employment Services "Our Old House" We have all the furniture and Need Graduation nx SECOND AND THIRD PLACES at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597. Michigan Bed and Breakfast. 35 apartment stuff you could possibly Call Mike 277-2124 WANTED Mins. from Campus. (616) want. The latest in car interior 'FR. KING/ZAHM HALL' Female roommate needed lor 435-5365. couches and Oriental settings. 9,000 VOTES Even though MR. BUSH is speaking Williamsburg Apt. June 1st $234.50. We're looking to unload this PERSONAL at graduation, my aunt still wants to Call 258-5702 A riverfront sharp home and merchandise so price is negotiable. 'COLLEEN GREENTHAL' come. Please help her out;Sell me a apartment lor rent weekends or We're at Castle Point so if you're Help Me, Please 3,000 VOTES graduation ticket. Call x4233 SALES PERSON WANTED FOR short terms. 219-257-9101/219-thinking of moving there look us up. 
FOOD VENDING CART ON THE 291-6100. Call HENRY or THUY@ 272-9326 I need graduation tickets if anyone A DONATION OF $500 WILL BE Wanted: Jobs WEEKENDS. LOCATION WILL BE anytime and leave a message if has some they are not going to use. MADE TO THE LOGAN CENTER -The Senior Class ON THE EAST RACE. GREAT 4 Bedrm house for summer. we're not in. Call Quinn at x2059 if you have any IN THEIR NAMES, THANKS TO SUMMER INCOME. MUST BE Furnished, less than 1/2 mile info. ALL WHO PARTICIPATED. MOVING TO LA? OUTGOING. CALL RICK AT 288-from campus, sale neighborhd. CALL US! 

I'm looking for roommates to live 1454, WEEKDAYS. 273-0900 Cheap rent! AGNES x2769 please, help me TYPING AVAILABLE near Manhattan Beach after NIGHTS AND WEEKENDS. "' SENIOR LIQUIDATION "' 287-4082. graduation. Attention bisexual women Word Processor/Typewriter­Meg, 
CALL JULIE x1342 Need Graduation Tickets BADLY -(and other interested parties): disk mem,lull screen,spellchk ' FRIENDS FOREVER' Typing Will Pay BIG$. Ask lor T.Rog at Turtle Creek sublet available. Call 2 Bed Loft-made from tiqued AND Pickup & Delivery $350.00/ DAY PROCESSING 288-7341 Rian@ X1209 for details. bunkbeds, best you can lind!! 'LOVE YOU ALWAYS!' 277-7406 PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL 5ft Office Desk w/2 shelves & Love, 
YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NEED RIDE TO CT/MA AFTER Kicked off campus? Sexually secretary chair $95 Land M TEXAS: I'm driving home for the NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. GRAD, WILL PAY! harrassed by your roommate for the Stereo & CD w/remote $95 summer to Austin and I don't want LANCIA, X1279 1992-93 school year? Three CALL SCOOTER x1538 Alicia .... to do it alone. Want to help, call Bill BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR 3 (adjective) guys are looking for a x4274 CHILDREN DURING SUMMER. Turtle Creek roommate. Call Chris CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED WANTED: A rational explanation lor 
FULL-TIME, NON-SMOKING, AND FOR RENT @ X 1 088 if you need us as much as the termination of the NO wrestling Attention Washingtonians! RELIABLE. OWN we need you. We've been Philled! 89 MERCEDES ......... $200 program. Must be logical, coherent, TRANSPORTATION A MUST. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 86 vw.......................$ 5o TRUE and must not make the A luggage truck will be running from GOOD SWIMMER PREFERRED. 219-291-7153. FURNISHED ROOM, KITCHEN, 87 MERCEDES ......... $100 university look like a bunch of 
N.D. to Spokane and Seattle after PLEASE CONTACT MICHELE AIR, PRIVATE ENTRANCE, 5 MIN. 65 MUSTANG ........... $ 50 money-hungry idiots. II you can help graduation. AFTER 5:30 AT 277-5374. 2 Bedroom N. CAMPUS. 272-0615. us out, call Athletic Czar DICK Limited space is still available! Call Walk to Campus Choose from thousands starting Rosenthal at his toll-free number 1­Lisa X3153 or Theresa X2935 ALL NEW IN '921 $390 Month Turtle Creek Apartment $25. 800-GET-CLUE. ASAP to make reservations. Distribute bumper stickers and T­232 3616 available lor summer FREE 24-Hour Recording Reveals P.S. What team is next on the list? 
shirts. Help America and your Giveaway Prices. SANTIAGO, CHILE wallet. Call 1-800-584-0757 nights RESERVE YOUR 2, 4, or 5 Furnished -AIC -2 bedrooms 801-379-2929 J U N 0 R S or weekends. Bedroom House for 92-93 NOW! Copyright #IN11 KJC. New NO program Safe Area. Private Parking $450/month or make offer u beginmng WANTED Lot, Volleyball & Basketball Court, 88 Mazda 323, 4spd, AC, EC, 22K SUBMIT PRINTED COPY spring semester '93 STATIONERY EXERCISE BIKE Semi-Furnished. Call234-1886 call Mark 271-1 578 mil Hundreds below blue book! Jim N OF RESUME AND DISK TO STAIR CLIMBER W239-6064/H273-9059 CAREER & PLACEMENT 
Students interested in COUNTRY SKI M/C OR NORDIAC SUMMER SUBLET Room to rent over summer in Turtle SERVICES FOR RESUME learning more about the TRACK Creek. Share with MBA student.Apt. ALASKA JOBS BOOK NOW! semester/year in Santiago BOOK CASE AND VCR TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE fully furnished, will need a bed. $1000+/wk, room, board, airfare. 0 
encouraged to fill out a 85621288-0730evenings FOR RENT OVER SUMMER. TWO $240 pm. Ph. 273 2302 ask lor Now hiring. (503) 754-6051 ext. 8. DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU 
Statement of Initial BEDROOMS, ONE AND ONE Geoff. R LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY. Interest Form available at WANTED: Female roommate to HALF BATHS, FENCED IN PATIO, 1 hideaway couch-$75 International Study Program help with off-campus rent lor LARGE LIVING AREA, WALKING LOOKY! LOOKY! LOOKY! 1 col. table-$5 s Office, 420 Main Bldg, or summer school, June 22-August 8. DISTANCE TO CAMPUS. .,.!'!*!*!*!'!'!*!*I'!'! 1 cushion chair-$10 
call 239-5882. II interested call CALL ERIC X1392 HANG BY THE POOL NEXT TO 277-4491 U P S on CAMPUS X1502 CALL BRYAN or BRENNAN CONCRETE TURTLES! Please contact us before X1376 CHEAP-CHEAP-CHEAP Buy a cheap airline ticket to the We don't miss a day! Ship 
leaving campus! SENIORS CALL KEN X1385 TOWNHOUSE READY FOR YOU Emerald City, Seattle. your stuff home now and Want to sell your bicycle TO SUBLET THIS SUMMER Fly from South Bend to Seattle on relax during Finals Week. rather than take it home? Summer Sublet CHEAP-CHEAP-CHEAP United May 19. 
LOST/FOUND 

Call 239-5335 and ask lor Furnished 2 Bedroom CALL NOW #3414, 3439, OR 2668 $150 OBO. Call Tom at 271-0571. M-F 12-5 Sat. 11-2 Walt. 272-9817 
-. 
Lost: thin gold bracelet THOSE NUMBERS AGAIN FOR SALE: '85 ISUZU I-MARK. 239-6714 between North Dining Hall BE ON T.V. many needed lor Share 2Br house with M Grad #3414-PETE Ex. Condo, sunrl, Needs clutch at and Knott or Knott and commercials. Now hiring all ages. Student. Laundry, Garage, Garden, #3439-STAN $1,200, O.B.O. -283-4903. THE COUNTRY HARVESTER Grace-sentimental value­lor casting info. Call Porch, Air Cond. Avail May 1. $260 #2668-KATE lower level LaFortune if found please call x4914. (615) 779-7111 Ext. T-1678 plus phone. 288-3878. TURTLE CREEK SUMMER Baseball Cards For Sale 
Complete Sets For sale: Pair of 100 watt Sony 

LOST NO STARTER JACKET AT Moving to Chicago area? '91 grad in ATTRACTIVE STUDIO'S IN 1964-90 speakers. SR. BAR ON 4/23. DID YOU GRAB western suburb looking lor roomate. LOVELY OLD VICTORIAN BLDG. FOR SALE Call: 283-3576 Call x1563 THE WRONG ONE? LAUNDRY Call Don 708-629-3608. NEAR N.D. 225-300/MO. CALL TAG IN JACKET WITH LAST 2879634 FOR SUMMER AND FALL INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. full-size mattress like new SPOC -WATCH OUT FOR THE NAME "ABBATE" AND NUMBER CUTE BLONDE NEEDS HELP RENTALS. Good rates. Save Money. Call me Kelly 288-8762 TREES!! GOOD LUCK! LOVE "80001". CALL TONY@ 277-6048. DRIVING HER COOL PINK CAR lor a quote 9:30-6:00, MOM, DAD, DIANE, CHRIS AND 
TO MD/WASH. DC AREA ONE WEEK TIME SHARE. 289-1993. Office near campus. Dorm Fridge-cheap COLIN LOST Sun. 26 April at Huddle: A ON 5117. CALL MOLLIE 4999. RENT $700 USA, $800 OTHER. Mike B. 234-1 048 blue PHIL 244 notebook with my 60-90 DAYS NOTICE STUDENTS AND PARENTS! ATTENTION SUMMER name. room number and phone MOVING TO SAN FRANCISCO??? USE BY AUGUST 8 SAVE on those housing costs. Buy HEY LADIES, MOVING TO STUDENTS: number on it. My notes stink, but if 616-435-5805. this Oakhill Condo, walk to classes. PANGBORN? VITO'S BARBER SHOP you really want them I'll make you a I AM LOOKING FOR SOMEONE Get a break on your taxes, and a Custom Double Loft lor sale 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST copy and pay lor it too. I just want TO SHARE AN APT. WITH IN THE HOUSE FOR RENT return on your investment after Maximize floor space. X2476 233-4767 to be able to get a decent grade on BAY AREA. $150/mo. Call Paul287-2159. graduation. Call Janet Knapp at the final -please have a heart and if REIMAX 100 realty lor more HAIRCUTS: $5.50 you found my notebook call 4911. TOM X1762 2 bedroom Turtle Creek Townhouse information. 219-255-5858 or 219-TICKETS No questions will be asked!!!! -sublet during summer months 277-7402. Anyone going to be in 
STUDENT COMPANIONS Best Offer-x4073 Extended Catholic family Durham, NC next year? LOST: SET OF KEYS WITH N.D. NEEDED FOR PRESCHOOLER ATTENTION PANGBORN from NJ. Need as many GRAD Looking lor a roommate. BRASS KEYRING AND HONDA WITH SPECIAL NEEDS -lor next WANTED: 3 FEMALE STUDENTS FEMALES -1 YEAR NEW TIX as humanly possible. Call Amy X2860 CAR KEY AT STEPAN COUfiTS year and possibly summer. FOR LG. HOME. $200/MO. PER 2 PERSON LOFT Call Teresa x2899 to haggle ON SUN. PLEASE CALL PETE AT Involves taking child into community ROOM. LOTS OF AMENITIES. TO SEE CALL X2341 Work Smart/Find Jobs: (Sales­287-9258. to work on social and YOU STUDY WHILE I TRAVEL & PLEASE! Desparately need 1 grad Business-Technical) Corporate 
... 
communication skills. Must have ENJOY THE UTOPIAN LIFE. CALL airline ticket from SB to NWK tick. lor my Grandma-277-4491. listings, Professional career LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST !I!!! car and be free some afternoons. FOR APPT. PAUL 232-2794. (0/W) on 5118 (Male). Call 288-advancement guide, Resume Stipend and training provided 288-9806. "I NEED GRADUATION TIX!W' printing. 716-377-7470 A Gold Claddaugh Ring. 7026 S U M M E R I N S. B . ? ""Michael @233-3263"" Somewhere between: Airline ticket from South Bend to THE WASHINGTON D.C. CLUB PW and Keenan/Stanford Need transportation back to sublet the newest, largest, Newark, NJ on 5/9 PLANE TICKET FOR SALE FROM "GOING HOME TRUCK" and Madison, New Jersey area? call 1-1/2 bath, most energy also selling bedroom dresser NEWARK, NJ TO SOUTH BEND -PICKUP­PW and Lafortune 287-8421. efficient 2-bed appart. @ Michael277-2151 ON MAY 20. THURSDAY, MAY 7(1-5PM) 
Turtle Creek-for the same price of CHRISTIAN X1806 FRIDAY, MAY 8(1-5PM) Please. this ring has great SUMMER JOBS AVAILABLE IN the other 2-bd. appt. Round trip, nonrefundable air AT STEPAN AND LYONS sentimental value. II you lind it YOUR HOME TOWN! Works Corps X2447 tix-CHICAGO to JUNEAU, Need Graduation Tickets. Call 
see CLASS/page 19 
-------~ ~--------~ -~~-_...-----~----~~----­
Thursday, April 30, 1992 
(fj •• oe 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 
American L~~~u~ORK YANKEES-Activated Scan Kamienieckl, pttcher, from the 15-day disabled list Optioned Russ Springer, pttcher, to Columbus of the International League. National League . 
CHICAGO CUBS-Senl Dwight Smith. outfielder, outright to iowa of the Amer1can Association. Recalled Doug Strange. Infielder, from Iowa. . NEW YORK METS-Recaiied Terrel Hansen, first baseman, from Tidewater of the international League. . . . . . 
ST. LOUIS CARDINALS-Recalled Felix Jose. outfielder, from rehablirtat1on ass1gnme~t at St. Petersburg of the Florida State League. Designated Luis Alicea, infielder, for assignment to the m~nor leagues. BASKETBALL Continental Baaketball Anoclatlon 
ROCKFORD LIGHTNING-Named George Whitaker assistant coach. United States Basketball League ALTANTA EAGLES-Named World B. Free assistant coach. Traded the rights to Ernest Hall. guard, to the New Haven Skyhawks for Maurice Brittian, center. 
LONG ISLAND SURF-Signed Lloyd Daniels. forward. FOOTBALL National Football League . . 
NFL-suspended Tim Worley, Pittsburgh running back, for one year for VIolating the league's substance-abuse policy. . ATLANTA FALCONS-Signed Mick Thomas and Randy Bullock, linebackers; Sharron Washington cornerback, and Hosie Smith, offensive lineman. 
' CLEVELAND BROWNS-Announced the resignation of Ernie Accorsi, executive vice president of football operations. Waived Brian Brennan, wide receiver. World League 
MONTREAL MACHINE-8igned Craig Kupp, quartelback. . NEW YORK-NEW JERSEY KNIGHTS-Signed Joe Brunson, defensive end. OH 10 GLORY-Activated Deval Glover, wide receiver. 
GENERAL NCAA-Named Thomas w. Jernstedt deputy executive director and Tricia Bork group executive director in charge of championships and event management. HOCKEY 
National Hockey League . TAMPA BAY LIGHTNING-Named Steve Donner v1ce president ol sales and marketing. East Coast Hockey League NASHVILLE KNIGHTS-Named Nick Fotiu coach. COLLEGE CENTENNIAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE-Announced its expansion to an all-sports conference to begin play in 1993-94. Renamed itself the Centennial Conference. Announced that 
Haverlord, Bryn Mawr and Washington have joined the conference. . BROCKPORT STATE-Named Dan Smith women's ass1stant volleyball coach. RAMAPO-Named Steve Weiss offensive coordinator and running backs coach, and AI 
Frisone offensive line coach. ST. JOHN'S-Named Brian Mahoney men's basketball coach. 

is now accepting application for the following position: 
Assistant News Editor Copy Editor 
10 11001.• 
To apply, submit a resume and a one page personal statement to David Kinney by Friday, May 1. For further information, contact The Observer at 239-5303. 
The Observer 

PGA TOUR 
1. 
Fred Couples 

2. 
Davis Love Ill 

3. 
John Cook 

4. 
Mark O'Meara 

5. 
Ray Floyd 

6. 
Chip Beck 

7. 
Corey Pavln 

8. 
Jeff Sluman 

9. 
Paul Azinger 

10. 
Steve Elkington 

11. 
Steve Pate 

12. 
Mark Brooks 

13. 
Nick Price 

14. 
Keith Clearwater 

15. 
Tom Ktte 

16. 
Tom Lehman 

17. 
Lee Janzen 

18. 
Duffy Waldorl 

19. 
Mark Calcavecchia 

20. 
Gene Sauers 

21. 
Brad Faxon 

22. 
Rocco Mediate 

23. 
Jeff Maggart 

24. 
Nick Faldo 

25. 
Wayne Levi 

26. 
TomWatsom 

27. 
ian Baker-Finch 

28. 
Phil Blackmar 

29. 
Craig Parry 

30. 
John Huston 

31. 
Bill Britton 

32. 
Ken Green 

33. 
Greg Norman 

34. 
Jay Haas 

35. 
Larry Mize 

36. 
Billy Ray Brown 

37. 
Andrew Magee 


36. Mike Standly 
39. 
Jim Gallagher, Jr. 

40. 
Kenny Perry 

41. 
Scott Simpson 

42. 
David Peoples 

43. 
Mike Hubert 

44. 
Bruce Lietzke 

45. 
Jay Delslng 

46. 
Tom Sieckmann 

47. 
Jay Don Blake 

48. 
Russ Cochran 

49. 
Rick Fehr 

50. 
Dan Pohl 

51. 
Doug Tewell 

52. 
Blaine McCallister 

53. 
Nolan Henke 

54. 
David Toms 

55. 
Ted Schulz 

56. 
Brad Bryant 

57. 
Dillard Pruitt 

58. 
D.A. Weibt'ing 

59. 
Larry Rinker 

60. 
Fuzzy Zoeller 


Trn 11 12 10 12 8 11 11 12 10 10 12 13 12 13 10 12 13 10 11 10 12 12 11 11 10 
7 
7 10 7 12 
9 10 5 10 10 10 12 10 11 12 11 12 14 
8 
11 11 14 12 10 
9 
10 
10 
12 
11 13 12 12 9 10 9 
Money $1,010,874 $1,001,932 $590,760 $568,028 $527,118 $520,675 365,359 $343,856 $329,390 $305,232 $288,979 $275,476 $270,183 $266,843 $262,006 $253,705 $246,954 $236,757 $227.261 $223,830 $208,613 $204,268 $199.756 $188,994 $188,575 $185,728 $182.959 $180,908 $177,245 $165,776 $150,625 $149.119 $146,272 $144.409 $140.193 $132,998 $129,926 $125.797 $123,055 $122,638 $121,946 $119.644 $119.077 $117,151 $116,595 $114,154 $113,136 $112,372 $106,794 $100,962 $100,920 $100,662 $99.705 $98,823 $97,805 $97,244 $97,103 $95,638 $95.461 $95,073 


the best 
You deserve'!!Jt&Ul-
ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB'S 
LAST 
FRIDAY LUNCH 
of this acadmic year IllALUMNI=====
SENIOR 
~!:CLUB 
Find out whot you•ue been missing! 
Friday May 1st 12-2 
ID required 
page 17 

eo •• C> 
CORRECTION 

A picture of Irish quarterback Paul Failla in Wednesday's edtion was incorrectly identified as the Stanford game. It was the Purdue game. The Observer regrets the error. 
ND Sportspersons of the Year 1991-92 




Nome 
John Macleod 
Chris Petrucelli 
Bob Bayliss 
Pat Murphy 
Lou Holtz 
Mike Berticelll 
Tim Welsh 
Kevin Corrigan 
Fran McCann 
Debbie Brown 
Mike DeCicco 
Nome 
David DILucia Jerome Bettis LaPhonso Ellis Demetrius DuBose Elmer Bennett Randy Colley Greg Davis Mike McWilliams Craig Counsell Marcus Gowens Rodney Culver Derek Brown Kevin Pendergast lont Richardson Lou Zadra Damon Sweet Jean Joseph Paul Failla AI Walania John Coyle 
Nome 
Tanya Williams Stephanie Porter Melissa Harris Margaret Nowlin Susie Zilvltis Eva Flood Christy Peters Heidi Piper Missy Linn Crissy Klein Jahnelle Karlan 
Jessica Fiebelkorn Haley Scott Sarah Hayes Coquese Washington 
Coach of the Year 
Sport  Votes:  First Second  
Men's Baskelball  11  4  
Women's Soccer  4  1  
Men's Tennis  1  3  
Baseball  2  2  
Football  1  4  
Men's Soccer  1  3  
Swimming  1  2  
Lacrosse  1  1  
Wrestling  1  0  
Volleyball  0  1  
Fencing  0  1  

Male Athlete of the Year 
Sport Votes: 
Men's Tennis Football Men's Basketball Football Men's Basketball Lacrosse Football Track and Field Baseball Wrestling Football Football Men's Soccer/FB Men's Soccer Hockey Men's Basketball Men·s Soccer BasebaiVFB Baseball Track and Field 
First Second 
11  4  
5  8  
3  6  
1  1  
0  2  
1  0  
1  0  
0  0  
0  0  
0  1  
0  0  
0  0  
0  0  
0  0  
0  0  
0  0  
0  0  
0  0  
0  0  
0  0  

Feruale Athlete of the Year 
Sport Votes: 
Swimming Women's Soccer Women's Tennis Women's Basketball Women's Soccer Track and Field Volleyball Fencing Softball Women's Golf Volleyball Volleyball Swimming Softball Women's Basketball 
First Second 
6.5  2  
3.5  5  
5  2  
3  3  
1  2  
0  1  
1  0  
0  2  
1  0  
0  1  
0  1  
0  0  
0  1  
0  0  
0  0  

Third 
1 1 6 
4 
3 1 1 2 4 0 0 
Third 
2.5 
2 1 1 
1.5 
0.5 
0 
2.5 
2 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
0.5 
0.5 
Thtrd 
5 5 
2 
1 
1 
2 1 
0 0 1 0 
2 
0 1 1 
Total 
42 15 15 14 14 10 
8 7 7 
2 2 
Total 
43.5 33 22 6 5.5 3~5 
3 
2.5 2 
2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
0.5 
0.5 
Total 
28.5 25.5 
21 
16 
8 
4 
4 
4 
3 
3 
2 2 2 
1 
1 
The Observer I Eric Kreidler 
Flower Delivery: 7 Days 
~'SY 0 Pptth

Super Saver prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stufflng, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North (219)277-1291 
South Bend, IN 46637 Phone answered 24 hrs. 
ISTUDENT WORKERS NEEDED! 
vVL) dl'e seeking part-tii1H.~ 

-
sludent workers for a unique grad school prep program. 

• Generous compensation Highly motivated, strong academic record Flexible hours Computer experience a plus! 
For more information, call 

-
moNKIN 
EOUCATIOG~L GROUP 
at 

South Bend • 273-1866 
---------.--~---~-­
page 18 The Observer Thursday;, April 30, 1992 
Saint Mary's athletes honored at annual banquet 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON 
Sports Writer 

Athletes representing all seven of Saint Mary's sports gathered together last night to honor one another at the an­nual sports awards banquet. 
The evening got off to an emotional start as swim coach Dennis Cooper and junior swimmer Jenny Danahy pre­sented the first annual Hegi Symonds award. Although she only swam for one year before being killed in a car accident during the summer of '90, she left behind many memories as well as a strong example of how far dedication and hard work can go. This year's recipi­ent was freshman Carisa Thomas. In a moving speech, Thomas promised to try and uphold the values that Regi dis­played. Mr. and Mrs. Symonds wnre present for the first pre­sentation. 
Each sport awarded a most valuable, a most improved, and a coaches award. The first two were voted on by each team. 
Soccer coach Tom VanMeter started the awards presentation by honoring Kelly Cook with most valuable honors, April Ehert with most improved, and Greer Gilliland with the coaches award. 
Julie Schroeder-Biek. the Belles volleyball coach followed by awarding Karen Lorton MVP, Mary Wheeler MIP, and Laura Panowicz the coaches award. 
Basketball then followed, as Catherine Hestovich received MVP, Julie Snyder reeeived MIP and .Janet l.ibbing received the coaches award from coach Don Cromer. 
Next came swimming and diving. In place of a most im­proved award, coach cooper awarded Katie Northup the Regi Symonds mental attitude award. Although a freshman, Northup stepped forward as a real team leader, and worked with the kind of integrity this award implies. Other swimmers to receive honors were Michelle Colburn, MVP and Peggy Meiering, coaches award. 
Track coach Larry Szczechowski followed as the first representative of the three spring sports. Katie Linehan was awarded most valuable runner, while Lynn Pfeffer re­ceived most valuable in the field events. The other two awards were given to Christine LaBarbera, MIP and Sandra Macklin, coaches award. 
Tennis coach, Jo-Ann Nester presented Ellen Mayer MVP, Mary Cosgrove MIP for the sec­ond year in a row, as Cosgrove moved from number six singles last season to three this year, and will most likely play num­ber one next year. The coaches award was given to Marie Koscielski. 
Coach Don Cromer stepped forward again, this time as softball coach, to award Carol Grobner MVP, Sara Miller MIP, and Staci Bogataj the coaches award. 
Aerobics instructor Ann Miller was presented the Hellen Holland Voll award for her four years of participation in Saint Mary's intramurals. 
The night was also spent honoring several individual honors. The first of these honors, the director's award was given by athletic director Jo-Ann Nester. Senior Janet l.ibbing was given this honor, not just for her invaluable ath­letic contribution, but also her mental leadership. Despite a career ending injury, Libbing remained involved in Saint Mary's athletics by providing leadership and assistance whenever needed. 
The last two honors, scholar athlete and athlete of the year, went to senior soccer and bas­ketball player Kelly Cook. While maintaining a 3.71 G.P.A. as a biology/pre-med major, Cook earned first team Great Lakes region. as well as all -American in soccer. Cook, who has been a Saint Mary's athlete for all four of her college years, .was also awarded MVP in soccer earlier in the evening. 
The evening ended with a slide show put together by Dr. Nester. The show consisted of two main sections. The first of which sho~ed photos from all seven sports throughout the year at practices, games, and on the road. The second section was dedicated to the seniors. 
Braves shutout Cubs again 
. . .

Cubs held scoreless for 27 straight 1nn1ngs 
ATlANTA (AP) :--John Smoltz just wanted to keep up with Atlanta's other starting pitchers. 
So he went out and threw Atlanta's third straight shutout at the Chicago Cubs on Wednesday, scattering seven hits in an 8-0 victory that ex­tended the Braves' winning streak to five games. 
Smoltz (2-2) struck out nine and walked three in registering his first complete game of the season. 
"We have an inner competi­tion," Smoltz said. "You can't do any better than throw a shutout so I was just trying to duplicate what they had done." 
The Cubs, who have now lost six of their last seven games, managed only 12 hits in the 27 innings. Charlie Liebrandt and two relievers blanked Chicago 1·0 Tuesday night on three hits, and Tom Glavine had a two-hit­ter in a 5-0 victory Monday night. 
"1 don't know if I've ever managed three successive shutouts," said Cox. "All I know is that it's a prettv Jtood feeling 
Winners 
continued from page 24 

the United States Pro Indoor Tournament in Philadelphia 
where  he  defeated  1985  
Wimbledon  finalist  Kevin  
Curren.  
•••  

Williams edged soccer player Stephanie Porter in the closest of the three races. A standout on the women's swim team, Williams has twice competed at the Olympic Trials, most re­cently this past March. Both times she failed to qualify, but she hasn't been far behind the competition. tn 1988, she missed a spot on the team by just three places, finishing fifth in the 200 individual medley. 
sitting in the dugout." 
"It just was not our series, period," said Cubs manager Jim Lefebvre. "We got out-pitched and we got out-played. Face it 
the facts speak for themselves." 
It also was Atlanta's fourth shutout victory in five games and extended the pitching staff's shutout string to 33 in­nings, a franchise record. The previous mark was 30 set by the Milwaukee Braves in 1959 and 1963. 
Atlanta pitchers have allowed only two runs in their last 49 innings. 
Ron Gant drove in two runs for Atlanta with a bases-loaded single in a three-run third in­ning. and Terry Pendleton, who had three hits to extend his hitting streak to 10 games, drove in another with a single off Chicago's Danny Jackson (0­4). 
Jackson has gone 14 starts without a victory, his last win coming June 14, 1991, when he was 1-5 in his first season with the Cubs. 
Otis Nixon had three hits and 

i•·············································· 
. .
~ 

! 
CERAM\C c.-1 
fY~
PoTTERY 
• 


l 
c_ 
I £ l 
or=­

scored two runs for the Braves. He scored Atlanta's fourth run in the fifth inning when he dou­bled, stole third and went home when catcher Joe Girardi's throw got past third. 
The Braves scored four times in the eighth inning on a run­scoring single by pinch hitter Sid Bream and a three-run homer by Damon Berryhill, his third home run. 
The Cubs had an opportunity to score in the second inning when Mark Grace led off with a triple. 
The next hitter, Derrick May, lined to shortstop Jeff Blauser, who tried to get Grace at third. The throw glanced off third baseman Pendleton's glove to the dugout, but Pendleton re­trieved the ball and threw Grace out at the plate as he tried to score. 
Third base coach Tom Trebelhorn was ejected by um­pire Harry Wendelstedt after arguing that Pendleton inter­fered with Grace at third while £Wing for the ball. 
Trouble packing your stuff? WELL ... 
STUFF THIS 
In Whatever you can and 

•*@J*
Boxes Plus 

B • 
Ff21DA7 fV\Aj i 

•
•
•
•
MALl •
RILE-\ • 
•
(B •• 
• 
Comics, Toys, and Games 
4609 Grape Road JMS Plaza, Mishawaka Mon-Sat 11-7 
GRAND OPENING MAY 8 
Nothing is too big or too small 

• Books  • Bikes  
•  Stereos  • Computers  
•  Ns  •  Clothes  

Boxes Pltis 
5622 Grape Road Wilshire Plaza 
(b-::l'iveen 'Naccarnaw and Sam's Club) 
Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 

Call these numbers for any large item pick-up and get your Free 
Discount Coupon!!/ 
283-3047 
283-1022 
277-5555 

------~-~__...~------~­
Thursday, April 30, 1992 The Observer page 19 
Mag rat-

FRESHMEN J U N 0 R S -Give my love to Pooh, Eyeore, and Tigger! & CLUB 23, SATURDAY Be good until I get home! Love, A-Dee. SOPHOMORES u P.S. Beebee no like you! P.P.S. Maggie has 
Class 
10:00 P.M. If you are interested in
continued from page 16 
learning more about a 
BASKETBALL COURTS semester/year abroad in 
-DROP OFF­
SANTIAGO, CHILE: 
SUNDAY. MAY 10(12-GPM) 
ND is offering To the 2 ND guys that we 
AT MONTGOMERY MALL 
a new program. "escorted" down 1-94 on 
QUESTIONS?? 
4/16. It wasn't a Tempo. To 
CALL PAT #3597 
Please discuss the make of my car contact ISP call Michelle at 284-4426. 
FREE SUMMER FLA. VACATION 
420 Main Building P.S. Yes it was! 
If you are male and under 23 or call 239-5882 before 
yrs. old, write for details to: you leave campus. You are LA SENORITA ES MUEY BONITA. 
Mark P.O. Box 14288 Jack­
encouraged to fill out a BEAUTIFUL BROWN EYES AND 
sonville. Fla. 32238 
Statement of Initial BEAUTIFUL SHAPELY THIGHS. LA Interest Form SENORITA ES INTELLIGENTE. LA 
BOB THE BIRTHDAY DOG 
DO IT TODAY! SENORITA ES AUDREY GOMEZ. We need to know of your TGYSK 
Your great backrubs, cigarette stress walks, interest at this time. 
ego caresses. midnight wake-up calls and hey nit 
brutal honesty have made the last four years the best Thank you. 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer 
Life here goes on as usual. As if 
EVERYBODY and internship programs in Perth, 
nothing ...... you know the rest But guess 
COME Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. 
what, I am staning to see the light Just 
SEE Programs start at $3520. Call1-800-878­
keep holding the candle for me. 
THE 3696. SISTER 
And for your knowledge and information, I 
CHAIN raft, you are missed. 
had not forgotten this. 
ON SAT. AT 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
i love you CLUB23 LaFortune Student Center AT We're Open Everyday!!! 
SISTER CHAIN AT CLUB 23­10 P.M. 
SATURDAY NIGHT!!! 
to the athletic dept: your time is gonna come 
Are You From Northern Idaho -led zeppelin 
or Washington State? to the star chamber under the dome: 
A luggage truck will be running from N.D. to lyin', cheating', hurtin', that's all you seem to 
Spokane and Seattle after graduation. 
do 

Limited space is still available! Call Lisa 
"THE SISTER CHAIN" -led zeppelin X3153 of Theresa X2935 ASAP for reservations. 
HOW WOULD I DESCRIBE FOUR YEARS UNDER THE MALLOY ADMINISTRATION? "DRIVES ME INSANE, TROUBLE'S GONNA COME TO YOU"-LED ZEPPELIN 
ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS A 
Happy 21st 
HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS A BABY! Young financially secure Catholic couple 
looking to adopt and provide a loving home to an infant All Expenses paid. Please call collect (317) 364-0300 for more information. 
Birthday 
I am a worm, slowly and surely sinking 
Donna Lynn Kerney 
deeper into the bowels of the earth, putting more desolation between me and the universe 
STAY AWAY FROM LAFORTUNE COMPUTER LAB AFTER 10 PM! If you're typing a paper and you want a computer, don't come late at night EVERYBODY COMES THEN AND 
May 26, 1971 
Love ya, 

THERE'S ALWAYS A WAITING LIST!!!!!!! Go in the morning, 
it's peaceful and available ...
Dad, Mom, 
John & Karen 


THURSDAY: 
•BHRNHBY'S ALL YOU CAN EHT $4 
*WINE TASTING CLASS -7:30PM (THE BOOKLET IS INCORRECT)
FRIDAY: 
• CAREER AND 

PLACEMENT THANK YOU LUNCH I2·2 
ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB 
KENTUCKY DERBY PARTY THEODORE'S 3-6PM PRIZE FOR BEST HAT 
SUNDRY: SENIOR BRUNCH -NORTH DINING HRLL 

11-1:JO 

**GARDENS TICKETS AND SENIOR MONTH T-SHIRTS AVAILABLE AT LAFORTUNE INFO DESK 
SUBMIT PRINTED COPY OF  
N  RESUME AND DISK TO  
CAREER & PLACEMENT  
SERVICES FOR RESUME  
BOOKS NOW!  
0  
DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  
R  LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  
s  

Allegro Now open 24 hours a day thru exam week! 
HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP!! Ride needed back to NEW JERSEY after finals. Will help pay for gas/tolls. Please call Mike at x:3526. 
NEEDED: Ride back home to Boston/New England Area. Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call Greg at x3526 
Michael, it's been a wonderful 8 months! I love you!!! 
-renee 

My brother is a big fan of BUSH. So satisfy his desires with a graduation ticket Call Herbie at 272-6392. 
THE SISTER CHAIN Saturday May2 CLUB 23 
Horses for lease. Experienced riders only. $50/month, can work in exchange. 234­4985. 
Buffalo Club-The Truck to take stuff home will load on Wed., May 6 and Thurs.,May 7 from 3to6pm at Stepan. Any ?'s-mattx3559 
THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE FOR THE OBSERVER IS FRIDAY, MAY 1 (tomorrow). YOU HAVE UNTIL 3 PM TODAY TO GET YOUR CLASSIFIEDS IN FOR TOMORROW. YOU CAN ALSO SUBMIT CLASSIFIEDS FOR THE MAY 15 COMMENCEMENT ISSUE TODAY OR COME IN BEFORE THURS., MAY 14, 3 PM. 
a boyfriend ... ! 
To the girls in Regina N: Shayla (The Goodness). Amy, Rebecca, Colleen, and Kathryn: It's been a zoinksin, schwinging year! Don't forget Fisher (and our hand gestures). Motel 6, Pangborn, Mystery Men, Campus View, 1/4" haircuts, 
.late night BK runs, Green Ecto-Cooler, "The Tape." and the girls' nights out! I love you guys! Thanks for all the memories! Love, Kathleen 
Sexy SMC Spanish major wants grad tix to see Pres of Chile receive degree $ call Kate at 284-5247 
Graduating F looking for Roomie and Apt in Elk!Mish 284-5319 
Moving to the DC area! Looking for a female roomate. Please call Alice at 4907 if interested. 
I need graduation tickets. Let's make a deal. Cris x4907 
I love pina coladas, And getting caught in the rain, I'm not into yoga, I have half a brain, I like makin' love at mignight in the dunes on the cape, I'm the love that you've looked for: Write and we'll set up a date. 
Hey BK, 
Just in case I forget, which I'm sure you won't let me do, thought I'd say, HAPPY BIRTHDAY, to the best back rubber ever! 
Love, ???? 
TO: MCK: This year has been great I can't wait unitl Shangrai-La--Love you forever. JLH 
I Need grad tix (who doesn't) Mike B. 234-1048 
Yes I like pina coladas, 
And getting caught in the rain, 
I'm not much into health food, 
I am into champagne; I've got to meet you sometime Thursday nile 
cut through all this red tape, 
At a bar called The Commons. 
Where we'll plan our escape. 

ICAMPUS REPS WANTED I 
To market our programs on campus. 
The perfect job for those bound for graduate school! Look at the advantages: 
• 
Generous compensation! 

• 
Work on your campus! 

• 
Set your own hours! 

• 
Earn BIG commissions! 

• 
Have fun while you work! 

• 
Earn a FREE LSAT, GMAT, GRE or MCAT Prep Course! 



I BUY at INVOICE* 
I NO 8c SMC $conege Graduates I I
I 500
1 Students and Faculty Rebate •• 1 
I

I ~~ 
~~F~ '""'''" Hyun~-:1 
~·~ V73377'11 mgpzgi21 
I r ....... I ir' rnu•TAn• 
I any new FORD or HYUNDAI ··-"I 
lor Details contact: BASNEY FORD I..AAARK HOUSER .&LI HvuncR• 1 Phone 291-6910 r "1 ~ mJ!lm 320 EAST IRELAND RnAD 1 
Sales Representative SOUTH BEND. lti466,14 I
I ­
•Rebate to dealer: Plus taK. doc.. tttle and tags. ••ford vehicles only. • • • • BRING THIS COUPON TO QUALIFY • • • • 

-~-----­
------------~~--------------­
page 20 

After graduating from high run at the singles and doubles school, he played on the junior titles, in addition to vying for
Irish softball renews Dilucia 
Davis Cup team again, traveling the coveted team national title. continued from page 24 to Europe to compete in theDePaul rivalry today "My sophomore year we
Italian Open, the French Open, the Belgian Open, and showed some signs of doing
By JIM VOGL Most recently, DePaul pitchers Wimbledon. well as a team and my junior
Assistant Sports Editor Kim Blackmore and Suzanne 
people were saying that Andre's 
year we really started showingWiegner threw 1-0 and 2-0 the best player here, this kid "That was such a great expe­signs, and that was the thingThe Irish softball team (27-shutouts at Notre Dame can't come in here and beat rience,'' said DiLucia, "The only that excited me the most," re­24-1) will be visitors-but by no exactly two weeks ago. 
Andre." time I was really overwhelmed marked DiLucia, "I really enjoy means strangers-as they play Now the Irish want revenge. 
was at Wimbledon. It's such a the team aspect, I've grown re­DePaul at 3:30 this afternoon The Irish stand at 27-24-1 DiLucia lost to Agassi 8-7, but traditional place, and there was ally close to these guys for fourin Chicago. after dropping one to Indiana he sent a message to the best a lot of people there. I was years now. There's nothing IIn their first varsity season State and managing an 11 in­players in the country: he will hitting on the court and my legs wouldn't do for them."
four years ago, Notre Dame ning tie in Tuesday's second be a force to be reckoned with were shaking, my nerves got to got demolished, 10-1, by game, making them winless in in the future. me a little bit." In addition to his family andDePaul. That season, despite their last four games. 
He proved that once again the his teammates, DiLucia creditstheir excellent 31-23 season Wiegner, Blackmore and next year when he was invited He had played in all the fa­Notre Dame head coach Bobrecord, the Irish dropped two Missy Nowak comprise as one of the top sixteen U.S. mous tournaments, played all of Bayliss and assistant coach more to a superior Blue DePaul's pitching staff, while players to compete for a spot on the famous superstars, and now Brian Kalbas for much of hisDemon ballclub. Nowak also leads her team on the U.S. Junior Davis Cup team. he had to decide if he wanted to own and the team's success,"Ever since that first year as offense. 
Even though he was just 17, become a part of it all. He which he hopes will soon in­a varsity sport, DePaul's been The Irish offense has been while many of the other players could have turned pro, but once clude a national title. 
a good measuring stick for us," shut out in 13 of their 24 
like Courier, Wheaton, and Pete 
again he refused to go the waysays co-captain Amy Folsom. losses, while the team's pitch­Sampras were already 18, he of all the other top players, and "Brian Kalbas is like an olderDuring her career, the senior ing staff has tossed 13 goose­still made the team. he decided to attend college. brother to me and coach Bayliss co-captain has seen the eggs of their own. Sophomore And he chose a school that is like a second father," saidDemons take nine of 14 from Carrie Miller (7-7, 2.05 ERA) "It came down to the last day, may have had a lot of tradition Dilucia.

the Irish, including one tie. owns five of them, while senior and I played eight matches in but was severly lacking as far As for the future for David"The last couple of years, Melissa Linn (1.82) has four, ten days," noted DiLucia. "That as a nationally ranked, big time Dilucia after college, he figureswe've proven that we can not Junior Staci Alford has was a huge step for me, it tennis program. Still, Notre to make an immediate impactonly play with them, we can asserted herself as the ace, showed me I was really serious Dame had a respected second­on the pro tour, if his past re­beat them," Folsom observed. with a 10-7 record and a and could really make the year coach in Bob Bayliss, and sults are any indication. 
Staci Alford and Notre Dame miniscule 1.26 ERA. She has commitment to play." there was the eluring challenge Earlier this year he facedescaped the Creighton only allowed 14 walks in 128.3 
of taking a program from the former Wimbledon finalist
Invitational with a 1-0 eight­innings, with a team-leading 
DiLucia continued his romp 
bottom to the top. Add to that Kevin Curren in the first round
inning victory on April 12. 88 K's. 
through the nation's junior the Notre Dame mystique, and of the U.S. Pro Indoors in his ranks the next year, the sum­the Irish had themselves per­home state of Pennsylvania. In mer before his senior year in haps the most coveted prospect front of 10,000 hometown fans
SPORTS BRIEFS 

high school, when he made the in the nation he scored a major upset, win­
semifinals of the junior U.S. ning 7-5, 3-6, 6-4, on his fifth 
Open. Many of his old Davis "When I visited, the people match point. hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third 
•sports Briefs are accepted in writing during business 
Cup teammates were in the were incredible. They were re­floor of LaFortune. Please submit your name, brief, telephone tournament, and he ended up ally friendly and couldn't do "The thing I was so excitednumber, and the dates the brief is to run. 
facing a player that is now fea­enough for me," said DiLucia, about was how I handled the tured in commercials for Nike, "And obviously it wasn't a front. pressure and nerves. I just put
•The "Dump your Plump" team from the Decio Building, David Wheaton. I've spent four years here and things in perspective, played"Dedo Dumpers," will lead the noon-time walk today. Meet them They played in front of thou­the people haven't changed." each point, and kept everything at 12:10 in front of Washington Hall for an escorted 30 minute sands on the grandstand at in the present. I didn't let thewalk around campus. 
Flushing Meadows. and DiLucia And DiLucia's domination on nerves bother me," said 
ended up losing a close match, the tennis courts hasn't either. DiLucia. "It showed me a lot. I 6-4, 7-6. 
•3-on-3 Tourney scheduled for Saturday, May 16. The 
He has slowly risen to the top of think now I know I have the elimination tournament is now accepting entries. Special events 
second annual "Winamac Shoot Out" thre.e on three triple 
the rankings and is now primed courage and the guts to do it." include free throw, slam dunk, a·nd three point field goal 
"That was another sign of my 
to lead the Irish to Athens, Ga., shooting contests. The entry fee of $70 per four member team 
self-growth as a player," said for the 20-team NCAA Anybody who knows David which will be donated to charity is due no later than Wednesday, 
DiLucia, "It was a big boost for tournament in mid-May. DiLucia has already known that May 13. Questions? Call Randy Miller at 233-6195. 
me." DiLucia will figure to make a for quite a while. 
and some for food as well. Conboy emphasized they were especially ~econd semester, be­not considering giving seniors
Seniors 

cause we won't be driving over the option of receiving meal here for practice." money.
continued from page 24 


continued, because they do not 
provide the students an on­
campus meal plan, while Notre 
Dame will require off-campus 
student-athlqt.es to continue to 
have a meal ~Ian. 

And this is a point of con­tentiOn for prospective off­campus residents. 
"The problem was not looking for a place to stay, it's the money the University allowed us to have," said DuBose. "We should have the choice of whether we want a meal plan. I Jive on campus now and don't eat three meals a day because my schedule doesn't allow it. 
"The amount of money really segregates students. People from wealthier families can af­ford to pay for food, while those from lower incomes will have to stay on campus." 
"I thought that the stipend was really low," agreed basket­ball player Coquese Washington, who opted to live in the Fisher Graduate resi­dences next year. "It worked out that you can't find suitable off-campus housing at that amount. The plan didn't really offer students a true opportu­nity to find off-campus hous­ing." 
"I'm not complaining because it's up from nothing," added Turner. "But I would like if we could get more money for rent 
Another problem was the short amount of time the se­niors had to apply to move off­campus. The decision was an­nounced to the students April 3, and the deadline for applica­tions was April 20, only 17 days later. 
"By the time it was an­nounced, it was hard to make any plans," said softball player Ronnie Alvarez. "All my friends that were moving off-campus had already found roommates." 
Conboy sympathized with the seniors, but said that the deci­sion to allow them to move off­campus was last-minute. If the plan is continued next year, she noted, prospective candidates will be notified at the beginning of the spring semester. 
"It makes more sense to sup-employment from May through September to install, port Notre Dame and the dining operate, maintain, and repair radio, telension, cable, and hall rather than McDonald's or satellite ef1Uipment. This u ideal for a technically-minded the South Bend community," science/engineer student with a knowledge of electricity said Conboy. She also and electronics. The position b for up to 40 hours per
mentioned that by keeping the students on a meal plan, the week, includes ahiftwork, and requires a vand driver'• athletic department could en-license with Commercial endorsement. Please apply at sure that the athletes are eating 1.------t~h;e;.WND~II.;iiiUii.IStuiiiiiildiii-liio;•.-.bvWiMiiiailiavW1istii•._ .. 
nutritional meals. 

But both DuBose and Turner argue that as seniors-and more importantly, as athletes-they are mature and intelligent enough to choose healthy meals that will enable them to stay in top physical condition. 
"The message being conveyed is that they really want us to live on-campus," concluded DuBose. 
Going Home Special 
Make someone happy with a gift fro 
Saint Mary's College 
ALL CLOTHING 10% OFF 
During Finals Week May 4-May 8 at 
Saint Mary's SHAHEEN BOOKSTORE 
ADDITIONAL SuMMER ScnooL CouRSE 
Creative Writing Fiction 
ENGL 301W:Ol 1:30-2:30 MTWTF 1 W. O'RouRKE 
1 
~ Aworkshop devotOO to theshort-and shorter-fonns of fiction writing. There will be assignments early on to produce aflow ofwrk; then one longer story and its rewrite will be requirOO. Ananthologyofshortfictionwillbeused. DART CALL #0613 



----~------­
The Observer 
Random 
continued from page 24 
Stephanie Porter is able to return to form after March re­constructive knee surgery and the incoming freshmen live up coach Chris Petrucelli's high expectations, the Irish should once again rank amongst the top teams in the country. 
These teams should produce a lot of excitement under the newly-installed lights of Alumni Field. Don't be surprised if they both wind up in the NCAA Tournament. 
In volleyball, Notre Dame re­turns four top seniors, including Jessica Fiebelkorn, from 1991's 26-10 team, and is the favorite to capture the MCC's automatic bid to the NCAA tourney, while in cross-country, Mike McWilliams and Eva Flood should make strong runs at NCAA appearances. 
The Observer/John Bingham 

The winter sports scene is
1992 could be a championship season for Rick Mirer and the rest of the 
looking like a huge question
Notre Dame football 
mark right now. 
John MacLeod, the 1991-92 Observer Coach of the Year, will have his work cut out for him. The men's basketball team lost four starters to graduation, and will have to rely on youth.
Now Accepting App&cations 
Obviously, there is a huge
for: 

void to fill. It will have to start with the players currently on
DJ's for .1992-93 School Year 
the roster. The four juniors-to­be Carl Cozen, Brooks Boyer and Joe and Jon Ross have shown they can be effective off
Pick up appUcatlons at Info. desk in 
the bench, as have Malik LaFortune 
Russell and Lamarr Justice. 
DeadUne: MAY 1, s:oo PM 
However, Billy Taylor is the only returning player that has
Questions Call James @ 239-7521 

ThYOlA. 
ACCEPTS 
SHEEPSKINS 
FOR CREDIT. 
Here's proof that your diploma is yours for no money down and a definitely worth more than the piece of 90-day* deferred payment! We offer paper it's written on. In fact, it can get you all this plus special College Grad you into a wild, yet practical, '92 Toyota finance rates. For even lower monthly Paseo. Or any one of our quality cars payments. talk to yourToyota dealer and trucks. about leasing. 
Okay, motivated collegians, you can So, call it a diploma Or call it a now take advantage of the incredible sheepskin. But be sure to calll-800-5­Toyota Class of '92 Retail Fmancing COll.EGE for the location of your near· Program-if your diploma is from a four· estToyota dealer [CJyear college, graduate school or regis­and a brochure ~ TMCC I tered nursing program. Even ifyou're with full details CREDIT six months away from graduation. The and qualification CORPORATlON hot scoop: Your dream Toyota can be requirements. 

01992,...\to<OfSales.l SA. Inc 

--~ 
proven he can play consistently well in a starting role. 
Incoming freshmen Ryan Hoover, a first-team all-Illinois selection by the Chicago Tribune and Chicago-Sun Times and Keith Kurowski, a third team all-New Jersey pick by the Newark Star Ledger, could see a lot of time in the backcourt. 
Look for next season to be a lot like the past one. The Irish will suffer some growing pains early on, but will improve as the year goes on. If the players are able to step up and adjust to their increased roles, the Irish could find themselves making another late season run at the NCAAs. 
Coming off their first NCAA Tournament appearance, the women are going to have to find someone to pick up the slack. They lost their top two scorers-Margaret Nowlin to graduation and Michelle Marciniak to Tennessee. 
Look for Letitia Bowen and Coquese Washington to help to Irish in their quest to repeat as MCC champs, which could be hindered by conference new­comer LaSalle, which was 25-5 in 1991-92. 
Incoming freshmen Carey Poor and Stacy Fields, Minnesota's Player of the Year, could also play significant roles for the Irish. 
The biggest change in all Notre Dame sports will take place on the ice, as the hockey team begins play in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association, one of, if not the top conference in college hockey. 
This move is similar to 
page 21 
Miami's (men's basketball) 
move into the Big East. The 
Hurricanes took their lumps, 
going 1-17 in their first cam­
paign, but in the long run, their 
program will benefit from the 
move. 
The same can be said for Irish 
hockey. Though they might 
have some trouble next season, 
eventually this move will attract 
better recruits and improve the 
entire hockey program. 
The women's swimming team will most likely produce the most emotional moment of the ' year, when Haley Scott returhs to the pool, as for the men, they will be led by sensational sophomore Greg Cornick, last 
year's MVP and Tom Whowell . 
The fencing team, a perennial national power, will have to re­build following the loss of all­Americans David Calderhead and Heidi Piper. All-American James Taliaferro is the top re­turnee. 
There is no reason to look ahead to the spring season since this year's edition is still in progress. Judging by the success they are having in 1992, next year should produce a lot of the same. 
In past years, Notre Dame was known only for football and basketball. Recently, the Olympic sports have begun to improve, this past year being no exception. Just take a look at the nationally-ranked baseball, men's tennis and lacrosse teams. 
Next year should be no ex­ception. So, as the football team makes its run at the National Championship, keep in mind that they might not be the only Notre Dame team doing so. 


Why take your winter 
clothes home for ....._~ ...... the swnmer? 
Just pick up a storage box at Ziker Cleaners and fill it with your winter clothes. Then return the box to Zikers and your clothes will be cleaned and stored on hangers in our moth-proof vault all summer and ready for you when you return in the Fall. 
• 
Low cost storage • No payment until Fall 

• 
Protection from • More closet space for moths/fire/theft your summer things 


Two Locations Near Campus! 
207 us 31 (across from Bob Evans) 


272-8093 
Ironwood at South Bend Ave. (next to Martin's) Greenwood Shopping Center 
272-9461 



page 22 The Observer Thursday, April 30, 1992 
Irish baseball opens busy week with sweep of UIC 
.. 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
'1\vo down, seven to go. 

The 24th-ranked Notre DaVle baseball team (29-17) got its wnekend of baseball started on the right foot by winning both ends of a doubleheader from Illinois-Chicago (16-21) last night at Coveleski Stadium. 
In the first game, Notre Dame starter Chris Michalak (7-3) found a unique way to keep the base paths clean in his sixth completn game of the year. The junior picked four UIC runners off first base in four different innings to erase an error, two singles, and a batter hit by a pitch as the Irish cooled off the Flames with a 2-1 win. 
"Michalak didn't have all his stuff tonight, but he kept him­self in the game with the pick­offs," said Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy. 
UIC jumped out to an early lead by capitalizing on Irish er­rors in the third inning. Carmen Carcone singled with one out over the glove of a diving Paul Failla at shortstop. Carcone advanced to second when Michalak was called for a balk which Murphy found question­
able. 

"It's a move we've been prac­ticing, the side step. You don't have to stop, but you have to change direction. I felt that he (Michalak) changed directions," said Murphy. 
Michalak tried to pick Carcone off second, but the ball ricocheted of second baseman Craig Counsell's glove and Carcone went to third. Chris Vetor got the RBI on a grounder to short. 
Notre Dame came right back in the bottom of the third. Dan Bautch singled to extended his hitting streak to seven games and a Craig DeSensi grounder moved him into scoring posi­tion. Eric Danapilis and Joe Binkiewicz provided the fire­works in the game with back­to-hack RBI doubles to give the Irish the 2-1 lead. 
The Irish faced seven differ­ent pitchers as the Flames used a pitcher an inning to give the entire UIC mound crew a work­out during the non-conference game. 
"The variety of pitchers threw us off in the first game. It's a great tactic," said Murphy. 
In the second game, the Notre Dame bats came alive and the Irish won 9-2. The Irish went through the order in the second inning en route to a seven run burst. 
Binkiewicz started the inning out with a single between shortstop and third. Failla walked with one out and then stole second to put runners on first and second. DeSensi's sin-
Grand Opening AprU 3rd 
Rainbow Video 
WE SPECIAUZE IN: Korean Japanese Chinese Video Tapes Free Membership 
State Road 23 a Ironwood 
Next to 7fl Gas StaUon 
Mon·Sat 10 am to 10 pm 
Sun 1:& noon to fl pm 
(219) 273-9545 

gle brought both runners home, but he was out a play later try­ing to steal second. 
Bautch extended the hitting streak to eight games with a single and Bob Lisanti and Counsell both walked to load the bases with two outs. Cory Mee hit a two-run double and Danapilis hit a two-run single before Binkiewicz sent a double to the warning track in center for the seventh and final run of the inning. 
An inning later, the Irish added two more runs on a Mee single which scored DeSensi and Bautch. The Flames broke up the shutout with two runs in the seventh off Irish reliever Marty DeGraff. 
Notre Dame right-hander Pat Leahy (6-3) notched the win for the Irish with five solid innings of work allowing only two hits and no runs. 
"It was good that we got some runs early," said Leahy. "It made things easier for me. I was able to throw mostly fast­balls." 
The Irish are in action again tomorrow with a single game at Jake Kline Field against Eastern Michigan which starts at 3 p.m. 
,,..., ~:1 
The Observer/Jake Peters Irish infielder Craig Counsell prepares to throw out a Ball State runner. Fighting injuries to both ankles, the senior turned in a solid defensive performance at second base in last night's sweep of Illinois-Chicago. 
Notre Dame's Own Comedy Troupe performs 
FRIDAY MAY 1st, 1992 at 8:00pm WASHINGTON HALL 
Tickets Available at the Lafortune Information Des and at the Door for $3.00 
/J?_l_~FA CCEJVTL'>~.. 
~ 




Today 
Thursday, April 30, 1992 page 23 


SPELUNKER 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
B/1-D t-1£WS, DAD. 
11-\E CI.{~~~C\ER \SS\JE I'S K\LUI{G­'(O'J \l'-1 11-\'C: 

l'oU.'3. 
..j; 
THE FAR SIDE 
JAY HOSLER 


BILL WATTERSON 
W//Af Cl.{fl..R~GER ISS\Jt. ?.' l'VE G<)\ GREAT C\if>..RAC.i£R! I'V~ GO\ CI-\~Rf>.CTER \.JP 10 1-\ER£: .' 

\ 

ACROSS 46 Columnist Bombeck 13 Dress description 4B-Hall (2 wds.)1 Drawn at the bar University 14 Hairlike pro­(2 wds.) 49 Part of a circle jections 6 French author 50 -monster 16 "...all built their Albert -52 Slip a Mickey to -in my beard" GARY LARSON 11 Colony of bees 53 A pig in a -19 Of sailors and
SPIN 
12 Without ethics 55 Swiss city ships (abbr.)14 Marsh plant 57 Hockey great 22 Emetic plant15 Activities 58 Enter unnoticed 26 Sea bird 
coordination (2 wds.) 28 Bits of advice 17 Head of Benjamin's 60 Horace -29 Plant again
clan 62 Piece of thread 31 Washington employee18 Mr. Brezhnt:v 63 "Hark! the --33 Platform 20 "-were marching angels sing" 35 Red wine 
through Georgia" 64 Pungent 37 Piles 21 Places: Lat. 65 Russian rulers 38 Kitchen clothing23 Photo 39 Deficiency disease 
24 Military training DOWN 40 Moslem prince
class (abbr.) 42 Saunters 25 Not suitable 1 -illusion 43 Performed 27 Animal fat 2 Insect egg nationally 29 Defeat soundly 3 Dutch dialect 44 "Twelve -Men" 30 ----at the switch 4 Zodiac sign 47 Dismount 



' LYONS COURT 3:00 PM -6:00 PM 

STUDENT UNION BOARD

'-· -----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--=========:::::~=~=:::..:.=_ 
32 Three-pronged 
spears 34 Complain 36 Health resorts 37 Bombastic speech 41 Nap 45 Narrative poem 

~~f$NEf PICTURES 
May 2nd

BeaUty 
8:00 pm and 10:30 pm Cushing Auditorium Admission is $2.00 

Beast 
REFRIGERATOR RETURN THURSDAY, APRIL 30th STEPAN BASKETBALL COURT 11:00 AM-2:30PM 

5 Gateway structures 51 Estate 6 Measuring device 54 Dodge City 7 Among marshal 8 Extinct bird 55 Metallic element 9 Bathsheba's husband 56 Queen of the gods 
10 Vidal or Siegfried 59 Trombonist Winding 11 Burr and Copland 61 Turn a deaf ­
Friday, May 1st 

. .... 
-

J. • 
r 
.... 
.... 
page 24 

MIKE 
SCRUDATO 
Random Thoughts 

1992-93 should be successful for Irish sports 
As the current school year draws to a close and we are looking back at some of the highlights and lowlights of the past nine months, it is also an appropriate time to look ahead and see what's in store for Irish sports fans in 1992-93. 
When students return to campus in the fall the first thing on almost everyone's mind will be football, and with valid reasons. Notre Dame will most likely be ranked in the preseason top five. and no undergraduate will have experienced a national championship football season (except for fifth-year seniors) as a Notre Dame student. 
This includes the players themselves. As Lou Holtz said during my freshman orientation. students come to Notre Dame expecting to witness at least one national title. 
Next year could very well be the year. Not only do the Irish have their entire defense returning and two Heisman candidates, Hick Mirer and Jerome Bettis on offense, but for the first time in several years, they have their schedule on their side. 
It's not an easy schedule, but it's one you ean win a national championship with. 
Gone are bowl teams Indiana and Air Force, Tennessee, as well as, the va1~ation to Hawaii. They are replaced with perennial Big 10 doormat. Northwestern. Ty Detmer-less Brigham Young and an up-and-coming Boston College squad. And the games against Miehigan and Penn State, the two teams on the schedule that defeated the Irish in 1991, will be played in front of the 59,075 faithful at Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Irish should get through the mgular season unseathed, as will the probable preseason number-one, Miami. Thanks to the newly-created bowl agreement, Catholics vs. Conviets IV will take place in the Fiesta Bowl. 
I don't think Mirer, Demetrius DuRose and their fellow seniors will leave here without a national ehampi­onship ring. 
Irish 31, 'Canes 27. 

While football will be grabbing headlines nationwide, it is not the only sport Notre Dame will excel in next fall. Both soccer teams are coming off out­standing seasons in which they narrowly missed out on NCAA Tournament berths, and they have a lot of talent returning. 
The men lost to Evansville, 2-0, in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference title game, which determined an automatic bid to the NCAAs. They are coming ofl' an impressive undefeated spring and 
should once again make a strong run at the MCC title and the NCAAs. The same can be said for the women, who won the MCC title (which does not include an automatic NCAA bid) and earned their first ever national rank­ing. If 1991 MCC Player of the Year see RANDOM/page21 
• 
Baseball takes a pair from UIC see page 22 

• 
Softball visits DePaul today see page 20 


IISMC athletes honored see page 18 
----------~------­
Sports 
Thursday, April 30, 1992 
Tennis a life-long love affair for Dilucia 
ByJONATHANJENSEN 
Sports Writer 

"I was fascinated by the idea of keeping a ball in play, constantly hitting it back and forth between two people. I thought you had to be really good to do something like that." 
That is what five-year-old David DiLucia thought about a game called tennis. 
DiLucia expressed an interest in this amazing sport, and his dad installed a court in their back yard, just for recreation. Well, the rest is history. 
Today, DiLucia is ending his senior year at Notre Dame as the number-one ranked collegiate tennis player in the na­tion, and he has just been named the Observer male athlete of the year. 
The two-time All-American, who posted a 24-3 record in singles this year, is the first Notre Dame player to be ranked number-one in singles, and he and junior Chuck Coleman have also been ranked number-one in doubles. 
In addition to individual accolades, he has also led the ninth-ranked Irish to a 20-3 record this year and will serve as the team's spiritual leader in their second-straight appearance at the NCAA's in May. 
Just think, it all started at a tennis court in the backyard of his Norristown, Pa. horne. 
By his ninth birthday he was nationally ranked in the top-five in his age group, and two years later he was playing for the right to call himself the best 11-year old tennis player in the world. Though he was two points away from a win in the finals of New York's Rolex Championship, he -ended up losing to Mexico's Eduardo Valez 7-5 in the third set. 
DiLucia's success continued, and he remained in the top five in the country in his age group. When he was 14 he was beating players four years older than him in prestigious 18-and-under national tourparnents, and at 16 he garnered an invitation to train at the prestigious Nick Ballettieri Tennis Academy in Florida. 
But instead of moving south to train with top players his age like Andre Agassi, Jim Courier, and David Wheaton, 
students conditional The plan requires approval based seniors to get a letter from academically, citizenship­his or her coach and wise and consent-wise," written permission from said Conboy. "But we're his or her parent or legal still waiting to hear of the guardian, and to provide location of their some idea where he or she apartments, to make sure will live next year. that it's in a safe area, Based on their academic before giving final record, whether they have 
Privacy the main issue for athletes applying for the off-campus option 
By RENE FERRAN approval." Sports Writer Every student-athlete interviewed cited privacy 
In terms of the number as a major reason why to of students participating, move off-campus. the University's decision to "I just wanted to be able allow senior scholarship to have my own bedroom," student-athletes to move explained volleyball player off-campus was a success. Alicia Turner. "It wasn't 
Of 76 full or partial because I didn't like dorm scholarship recipients, 42 life; I just wanted myseniors-to-be (55 percent) 
independence."

have applied to the "People come up all 
athletic department for the 
night asking for privilege to live off-
autographs." added 
campus for the 1992-93 linebacker Demetrius academic year. Although DuBose. "A line has to be the University must still drawn when a guy needs 
give approval to their ap­privacy." plications, Assistant "If I didn't get a single, I Athletic Director Missy definitely would have 
I 

The Observer/Kyle Kusak 
Notre Dame tennis star David Dilucia reaches for a ball against West Virginia. The nation's top ranked collegiate player will lead the Irish into the NCAA tournament in mid-May. 
he decided it would be better for him to stay at home. He felt that he would enjoy the game more if he stayed closer to his parents. 
"I think that the reason I'm still playing the sport today is that I have very supportive parents, above all they're always there for me," said DiLucia, "And I know other people who have gone away and they just burn out. They're not happy." 
Even though he stayed up north, DiLucia still wanted to play against some 
had prior citizenship problems involving the Office of Student Affairs, and the location of their prospective residence, the University will grant the student-athlete permission to move off-campus. 
For students who receive full scholarships, the University will still pay full tuition and provide a meal plan. To cover rent ex­penses, the University will provide a yet­undetermined stipend, which Conboy estimates will be around $1500 to­tal, to be paid directly to the landlord. 
"Under NCAA rules, we're not allowed to give them more than the actual cost of room and board," explained Conboy. "Just because someone lives in a more expensive apartment or is from a financially disadvantaged background does not change what the rules allow us to provide." 
Other universities give a higher stipend, Conboy 
see SENIORS/page 20 of the players at Ballettieri. So in the summer of 1986 he traveled down to Florida and Ballettieri immediat~ly threw him on the court with the best player there, a first-year pro named Agassi. 

They decided to play an eight-game pro set and to the amazement of every spectator, the match was soon tied at seven games apiece. 
"Everybody was watching to see what would happen." said DiLucia, "And then see DILUCIA/page 20 
Observer names coach, athletes of the year 
Observer Staff Report 

Men's basketball coach John MacLeod, tennis player David DiLucia and swimmer Tanya Williams have been named the 1991-92 Observer Coach and Male and Female Athlete of the Year, respectively. 
The winners were chosen by a vote of the Observer staff and points were given on a 3-2-1 basis. In all, 23 ballots were cast. 
In his first season at Notre Dame, MacLeod led his team to a 14-14 regular-season record and second place in the National Invitation Tournament, after starting the year 1­5. 
Throughout the season the Irish pulled off several major upsets, including wins over UCLA, St. John's, Syracuse, North Carolina and USC. 
DiLucia, the top-ranked collegiate player in the country, led the Irish to an moved off-campus," said
'liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii:. C o n b o y an tic i p a t e d n o 
• problems. tennis player Melissa INSIDE SPORTS "We've tried to give Harris. 
18-3 record and a number nine ranking while playing first singles and first doubles with Chuck Coleman. The pair are ranked fourth in the country. 
DiLucia also played In some professional tournaments, including 
see WINNERS/page 18 









