
~·~lit 
.g~.

e Observer SaintMaresCd~
NOTRE OAME•INDIANA 
MONDAY, MARCH 23 1992

VOL. XXIV NO. 115 -. -, , THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Students 
USAir jet crashes "take back 
in aborted takeoff 
the night" 
At least 20 of 51 on boardBy KATIE O'CONNOR and 
BILL CAMPBELL 
News Writers 


confirmed to have died 
NEW YORK (AP) --A USAir The aircraft was an F-2 8 Approximately 40 students, 
commuter jet crashed in a 4000 commuter jet, USAir
both men and women, gathered snowstorm Sunday after an spokesman John Bronson saidoutside of LeMans Hall at Saint aborted takeoff from La in a tape-recorded message. 
Mary's Sunday to voice their Guardia Airport, coming to rest Witness Patrick Silver said
concerns over the problems of sexual assault existing on both 
partly in the waters of Flushing the plane lifted off briefly, then campuses. 
Bay. At least twenty people slammed back down onto the The Take Back the Night" 
died. runway, bursting into flames. rally began this week's Sexual Assault Awareness Week for 
An eyewitness said the plane "It catapulted three or four the communities of Notre Dame left the ground, then fell back times before it went into theand Saint Mary's. 
and burst into a "huge fireball" water," Silver said. "It lit up the After a brief introduction, the before sliding part way into the living room. It was a hugegroup began to march. 
water. fireball."
The walk proceeded down Saint Mary's Avenue, across US 31, Down "Rape Road" and on 
Radio reports said rescue Federal Aviation Administra­to the Grotto. The walk was to 
divers were in the water for tion spokesman Fred Farrar acknowledge the fact that there 
survivors. described the plane as a is a problem presenting this 

"relatively small two-engine jet
community. Although there re­USAir Flight 405, bound for with both engines on the rear ofally is no solution to the prob­Cleveland carrying 47 passen­the fuselage." 
lem, the group said they be­gers and four crew, skiddedlieved there are means to pre­down the runway about 9:30 It was the second time invent further assaults. The so­p.m., said Fire Department three years a plane has skidded 
lution presented involves realizing that only through 
spokesman Jerry Sanford. off a runway at La Guardia. uniting together, both 
Both times they were USAir emotionally and physically, can 
The plane caught fire and flights. these actions be prevented. 
was half submerged in the wa­On Sept. 20, 1989, USAir The group chanted " People 
ter, he said. Flight 5050 bound for Char­unite, take back the night", "No lotte, N.C., skidded off the endMeans No", and other phrases Police Department Lt. Robert of a runway into the East Riverto tell passers-by their views on Nardoza confirmed eight people and broke into several pieces inrape and sexual harassment. 
were dead. Survivors, many of an aborted takeoff. 
Not all the people the group them burned, were being taken passed were in agreement with their views. In fact, some were 

to hospitals. At the time of this report, at vehemently opposed. The point 
least twenty people are con­of the march, and the whole 
Snow had been falling since firmed to have died in the acci-· 
see MARCH/ page 4 

about 5 p.m. 
Nouwen leads weekend of prayer and reflection 
By HELEN DIETEMAN Keenan Hall, a tour of the Lo­News Writer gan center, and a worship ser­
vice titled "A Celebration of the 
Variety of our Gifts" at Epworth 
This weekend Notre Dame Memorial United Methodist hosted well known author and Church, which was followed by speaker Father Henri Nouwen a reception. and several of his special guests Saturday afternoon's presen­to three days of prayer and tation was titled "Listening to reflection. God's Call in a Noisy World: 
The weekend was highlighted Discipleship and the Spiritual by a worship service on Friday Life." The afternoon of reflec­evening and Nouwen's presen­tion began with a prayer, fol­tations on Thursday evening lowed by an enactment of the and Saturday afternoon. Gospel story of the two disciples Several core members and on the road to Emmaus and the 
assistants from four L'Arche story of the local Emmaus communities for the mentally community. Next, three L'Arche handicapped in the U.S. and core members presented slides Canada as well as members of of their respective homes. the local Emmaus community Nouwen then spoke for a 
accompanied Nouwen on the short time about mourning and weekend. dancing. He stressed the fact 
Thursday evening's gathering that society pressures humans at the Hesburgh Library Audi­to hide their emotions and to torium focused on the topic deny their painful losses. He "God's Love Experienced in urged people to remember Community." Nouwen, who what Jesus asked them to do: taught psychology at Notre recognize the pain of the loss Dame from 1966 to 1968, and allow themselves the time spoke of the importance of and space to feel. claiming, reclaiming, and pro­By acknowledging the hurt, claiming one's humanity. He Nouwen said, people discover stressed that people's differ­the deeper joy that goes with it. ences are unimportant; it is the Speaking from his experience 
I t1e Observer/ Marguerite ::;nropp 

On the road to stardom
universality of all people that of living for the past six years at 
matters. the L'Arche-Daybreak com­
Metha-tones band member Brad Barnhorst, a 1991 Notre Dame
Friday's activities included a munity in Toronto, Canada, 
graduate, participates in Saturday night's Nazz '92 band competition,
campus tour, lunch hosted by 
closing Sesquecentennial Student Week.
see L'ARCHE I page 4 
dent. 
Ridgley to appear in court Tues. 
By PETER LOFTUS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame student Troy Ridgley will appear in court Tuesday on charges of public intoxication and resisting ar­rest, according to the South Bend prosecutor's office. 
The charges stem from a Jan. 22 incident at Stude's Lounge, 2206 Mishawaka Ave. in South Bend, in which Ridgley, a defensive lineman for the Notre Dame football team, refused to leave the kitchen of the club and resisted arrest by four po­lice officers, according to the South Bend Police Department. 
Tuesday's 8 a.m. court ap­pearance is a disposition hear­ing, at which a trial date may be set, or Ridgley's attorney, Charles Asher of South Bend, may ask for a continuance in the case. 
The prosecutor's office did not know what the possible sentence would be in Ridgley's case, and neither Ridgley nor Asher could not be reached for comment. 
Ridgley had been arrested twice before the Jan. 22 inci­dent, in 1991, but charges were dropped in both cases. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Children set a good example for adults 
Isn't it fun to pretend to be grown up? Children do this often. ------­They play games like J Th 
house in which there is a ason omas mommy and a daddy, and Viewpoint Copy they play these roles with Editor great accuracy. They watch and absorb all the little details of adult life, and they mimic them. 
Children don't think that much about what it means to grow up. For the most part they just think that some day they will be big, tall, smart and able to do all those incredible things that adults have been telling them they will be able to do when they grow up. 
"When I grow up, I wannabe a fireman!" "When I get bigger, I'll find a cure for cancer so my grampa will get better." "I want to get food for everybody so nobody will never ever be hungry ever again." 
These are wonderful dreams, full of hope and aspiration, and as they. shine from these kids, you would swear that they will surely come true. What makes children dream such wonderful dreams? Are they childish? They are so unselfish, so altruistic. 
It's not clear at what point these children will become "grown up" adults. Do they reach a certain state of mental understand­ing? At the age of eighteen, are they sud­denly endowed with the many gifts of adult­hood? Or is it at the age of twenty one, when they can finally purchase alcohol and go to the bars? 
l 
Many men and women, if asked, would be glad to give their definition of what growing up is. Some would suggest that it is to learn to be responsible for yourself, while others might think that it involves getting a job and starting a family. Some might even find that it is to learn to be responsible for self and society. 
Now take a look at the real world. It's hard to do, but force yourself just for a moment. 
There are people starving in our country and all over the world, there are homeless people in every major city, crime is inevitable and a 
t 
t 
war breaks out every few years. People in our world just can't learn to live together in harmony. 
When is it that children abandon their dreams and stop wanting to save the world? And if someone never wanted to save the world, what the hell is the the matter with them? What is it with this place that makes everybody so full of selfishness? 
When children are first born they are so pure, but they are gradually stained and tainted by the world. Evidence early on shows that children are making choices be­tween helping others and helping themselves. 
"MINE!" "Let's share." People grow up, get jobs, get married, and 
get lost. They somehow forget what's im­portant. Is It enough to take care of yourself or your family? Is growing up becoming a personal isolationist? Can't we live our childhood dreams? 
Maybe we should all grow down a little. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff  
Production  News  
Lisa Bourdon  Meredith McCullough  
Kristin Costello  Becky Barnes  
Emily Hage  
VIewpoint  Business  
Cheryl Moser  Melissa Cusack  
J. Brian Stalter  Susan Marx  
Joe Moody  Andy Runkle  
Sports  Lab Tech  
Rene Ferran  Garr Schwartz  
Accent  Systems  
Chrissy Prask  Paul Froning  
Julie Wilkins  
Jeanne Shin  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
~------------------------------­
Pr9SSUT9 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW 
r.. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 

Train collision kills one, injures three 
• ~ULTON, Ky. -Two Illinois Central freight trains collided head-on early Sunday outside a rail yard, killing a crewman. A northbound train with 65 cars collided with a 19-car southbound train near Fulton, in southwestern Kentucky, said Charlie Holcomb, a chief dispatcher for Illinois Central Railroad in Chicago. An engine from one train and two engines from the other derailed, but no other cars left the tracks, Holcomb said. He said the southbound train was carrying cars and trucks, and the other was carrying regular freight. Holcomb said the cause of the accident has not been determined and officials don't know how fast either train was moving at the time. Mark McDaniel, a spokesman for Kentucky Disaster and Emergency Services, said no hazardous ~aterials were spilled, except for a slight amount of diesel fuel from one of the engines. 
Fireworks accident kills pedormer 
• BALTIMORE -A performer at a monster truck exhibition died after fireworks strapped to his chest blew up, officials said Sunday. Robert Murphy, 36, was wearing a device at the show Saturday designed to shoot sparks during an intermission anti-drug skit. The impact of the blast shot a small piece of sheet-metal, designed to act as a shield, into Murphy's chest. Murphy appeared dressed as an alien representing the evils of drugs. A robot car was to have pretended to shoot him, then the sparks would have flown from his chest. 
OF INTEREST 
•"Office 
VIsits/Plant Trips," a workshop, will be held this afternoon in the career and Placement Services Conference Room from 4 to 5 p.m. Planning ahead for the ali-day second interview will be the focus of this ses­sion. 

•ISO 
board member applications are due today. They must be turned in at the ISO Lounge (205 LaFortune) before 5 p.m. 

•The 
Pre-Law Society will be holding an important meeting for seniors-to-be tonight at 7 p.m. in Cushing 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/March 21, 1992 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 246.84 million 226.96 it 0.71 S&P COMPOSITE 411.30 -it 1.50 OOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,276.39 --t 14.99 
PRECIOUS METALS 

GOLD-.!) $ 0.60 to $338.50/oz. 

SILVER -.f 1¢ to $4.111oz. 
Monday, March 23, 1992 
P'OR!CAST: 

Sunny and warmer today, with highs in the mid-40s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City H l 

Anchorage 37 22 Atlanta 
54 45 Bogota 66 45 Boston 
31 20 Cairo 
68 48 Charlotte, N.C. 52 38 Chicago 
34 28 
Clevleand 

32 28 
Dallas 

63 43 Denver 45 26 Havana 
n 54 
Indianapolis 
45 34 Jerusalem 
48 39 
Kiev 
43 30 Las Vegas 63 49 London 
57 46 
Lima 
4 70 
Minneapolis 
38 10 
Moscow 41 27 Nashville 52 40 New York 
35 25 Paris 
54 48 Philadelphia 
38 28 San Francisco 64 54 South Bend 45 20 
Tarrpa 
69 53 
Tokyo 
52 37 Washington, D.C. 41 31 Warsaw 43 34 

ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

CAMPUS 

in Tostal bands chosen 
iincinnati Choruses to Sing 
Man exooses himself in 0-2 
NOTRE DAME-A female Notre Dame student reported a man exposing himself in the D-2 North Parking Lot at 2:30 a.m. Sunday, according to Chuck Hurley, assistant director of security. The student had parked her car and was walking to her dorm when she noticed a 5' 10" white man, weighing about 165 lbs., crawling between two vehicles with his trousers pulled down, Hurley said. The man had blond or light brown hair and was wearing a blue sweatsuit top and blue jeans, Hurley said. 
Auditorium. Dean Waddick, Dean McLean of the Law School, and Professor Susan Vance of Saint Mary's will be speaking on the application process. 
•Hospitality 
Program members must attend a brief meeting at 7 p.m. tonight in Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Bring your personal calender. 

•ALSAC, 
Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council is sponsoring the "Meet Your Major" program for freshmen and sophomores March 23-26. Each department will have a representative present for an hour long informational session with time for questions and answers. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1nS: In a speech to the Virginia Provincial Convention, Patrick Henry said, "Give me liberty, or give me death!" 

• 
In 1919: Benito Mussolini founded his Fascist political movement in Milan, Italy. 

• 
In 1942: The U.S. government began moving Japanese­Americans from their West Coast homes to detention centers. 

• 
In 1981: The U.S. Supreme Court ruled that states can require, with some exceptions, parental notification when teen-age girls seek abortions. 

• 
In 1991 : Iraqi President Saddam Hussein shuffled his Cabinet, but kept in place his hard-line ministers of interior and defense to direct a crackdown on rebellion . 


Monday, March 23, 1992 The Observer page 3 


World order facing turning point, McNamara says 
By SARAH DORAN News Writer 
The world is at a political turning point where no nation is capable of standing alone, according to Robert McNamara, former Secretary of Defense during the Kennedy and Johnson presidencies. 
McNamara lead an open fo­rum Friday night addressing the question "What vision of world order is desirable and possible?" Other speakers in­cluded Walden Bello, director of the Institute for Food and Development Policy and a Third World scholar and activist, Randall Forsberg, director of the Institute for Defence and Disarmament studies, and Ge­orgi Shaknazarov, longtime ad­visor to Mikhail Gorbachev for political and international af­fairs. 
McNamara said that in the twenty-first century relations between nations will dramati­cally change, but that "the United States will remain the world's greatest power, it (the U.S.} is not a great power on the verge of decline." The United States will live in a multi-polar world and we must adjust because Japan and Western Europe will take big­ger steps, also, according to McNamara. 
Third world conflict existed 

Club Column 
MARCH 23, 1992 
l)The Club Coordination Council would like to remind all presidents of graduate and undergraduate clubs to check their mailboxes on the second Aoor of Lafortune. 
2) The Last Day to access club funds is April 1 0,1992. 
3) The Black Cultural Arts Council holds office hours on: Mondays and Wednesdays, 2:15-4:30, Tuesdays and Thursdays 2-4, Fridays, varied afternoon hours. The office is located at 217 Lafortune, the telephone number is 239-8684. 
4) Notre Dame Right to Ufe will be having an informational meeting to discuss upcoming events on Tuesday, March 24 at 7:30pm in the Montgomery Theater in Lafortune. All are welcome. 
5) Hospitality Program Members: Please aHend the brief meeting at 
7:00pm Monday, March 23 in Hayes-Healy Auditorium (rm 122). Please bring your appointment books. Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4 pm 
Thursday each week. All entries appear in the following Monday's edition of The Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office in 206 Lafortune. 

Strap on a pair for your B-day! Happy22nd -The Roomies 



FRESHMEN 
Come to Our Open House 
TONIGHT 
FROM 6:30 TO 7:30P.M. in RM 214 of the Computing Center and Math Bldg. 

before the cold war and will continue to exist, said McNa­mara adding that Third World military experiences have quin­tupled since 1960. Conflicts within nations and between na­tions will not disappear in the near future and the end of the Cold War does not mean an end to the competition of world powers, said McNamara. 
McNamara stated that a magnitude of changes lie ahead and that with these changes comes the need for the devel­opment of new relations be­tween the great powers and the other nations of the world. 
He outlined four objectives that will achieve his desirable and possible view of world order. First, all states must be provided guarantees against external aggression. Second, a mechanism must be provided to solve conflicts without unilateral decision making. Third, the commitment of the great powers is necessary. Finally, the flow of technological and financial systems must be increased to develop unindustrialized countries and accelerate their rates of economical and social development. 
McNamara highlighted the importance of the people and leaders of the developing coun­tries. He also reiterated that the role of the industrialized nations is "to assist them, not replace them, in accelerating their rates of economical and social development." 
Because it will be impossible for any nation to stand alone, "whenever the U.S. plays a de­cision role, we must accept col­lective decision making," said McNamara. He added that "when we (the U.S.} accepts collective decision making, other countries must accept risk sharing in the way of sharing economic costs and sharing political risks." 
Addressing the subject of nu­clear weapons, McNamara called for a "return in so far as practical to a non-nuclear world." This can be achieved by collective coercive action by the United Nations Security council. McNamara also said that the threat of the use of nuclear weapons prevents war. 

Panelist Walden Bello's said his view of world order is one based upon democracy, equity, and ecological sustainability. He said he is not in favor of a unipolar world where the south (the third world} is subsidized by the north (industrialized countries}. 
Bello said he is also in favor of the destruction of the world bank which he sees as an orga­nization that was converted to a debt collection agency in the 1980s. In place of the world bank, Bello said he would like to see "a real organization ded­icated to the development of the south, which is the world's largest population." 
Bello said he would also like to see the creation of a World Environmental Authority that is 

Classes held in JACC, Rolfs, and Campus &ring own equipment if possible Register in Advance at RecSports 
controlled democratically by all countries on the basis of one nation, one vote. 
Rallldall Forsberg related her views of a new world order specifically in relation peace, security, and demilitarization. She stated that the " U.S. should support multi national peacekeeping as decided by the United Nations, not the United States." 
In our (the U.S.'s} part of the world we should change to de­fences that are non-provoca­tively defence oriented, accord­ing to Forsberg. To achieve these "non offensive defences," independent countries must cut to forces like air defence and coast guard. 
Panelist Georgi Shaknazarov said that in his opinion of a new world order "the main task is to better the charisma of international corporation and the governing of the world." 

Smoking Stinks! 
M1 C...... Vb.7 a a&. Hl4:45 T:IS ll:tS T-"ri 4."417;li11:4S W.,....W..W.PGIJ.._I2:liZ:4S..T:Jill:tl 
T-rrt.I:IIJ:JIII:II . 
a..--.cta a...I;IU:JIT:II._. 
T-"rt ...T:MII:.II 

YOQ ASKED FOR IT, YOQ GOT IT... 

KARAOKE NIGHT at ALOMNI-SENIOR CLOB 
IllALUMNI 
SENIOR 

~CLUB 

page~~n 





Havel faces troubled country 
BRATISLAVA, Czechoslovakia 
Democratic Slovakia. (AP) -It was, after all, too Exhaustive talks on how to 
good to be true: the poet-prince rebuild the federation delivering his country in a sto­foundered on Slovak demands 
rybook revolution from com­for sovereignty and Czech munism into a golden age of doubts about Slovakia's com­
wisdom and love. mitment to market reform. Two years later, President Slovakia's premier, Jan 
Vaclav Havel presides over a Carnogursky, heads a coalition land mired in poverty and sepa­too divided to govern effec­
ratism. tively. When he tried to pushEven though few want the through an agreement on country to disintegrate, Czechs Czechoslovakia's future, his and Slovaks are on a path that own Christian Democratic Party 
Vaclav Havel 

could lead them there, and they rejected it and ultimately split. 
seem to lack the will to get off. Slovaks have known only out­Carnogursky noted a "serious 
Months of meetings have side domination. Their heavy 
crack" between Czechs and Slo­
produced only confusion, industries, including the coun­
vaks, and said: "We cannot ex­
try's arms factories, were built
paralysis and foreboding. clude the split of the common 
or greatly expanded under
Communication is minimal. state." Czechs and Slovaks rarely buy Petr Pithart, the Czech
communism. As Klaus reforms the econ­
each other's newspapers or premier, is considered sympa­
omy, Slovak unemployment haswatch each other's television, 
thetic by most Slovaks. He has
swollen to 12.4 percent. ·Job­lessness in the Czech lands is 
and report sensationally on the cautioned that the June vote 
other's affairs. could be "elections of Czechs June elections appear crucial, 4.7 percent and dropping. against Slovaks, and Slovaks but the two men likely to win in After centuries of domination against Czechs." their regions are as different by Hungary, Slovaks united with Filkus said his party is
the Czechs in 1918. With an
from each other as from the committed to a market econ­
inglorious interlude as a Nazi
high-minded Havel. omy and that Meciar would Vaclav Klaus, the federal fi­puppet state, they have felt preserve a common market and nance minister, is a conserva­dominated by the Czechs. currency, harmonize tax sys­tive Czech economist. The Slo­Some radicals want indepen­tems and coordinate foreign
vak leader, Vladimir Meciar, is a policy.
dence, but polls indicate they are a small minority. Slovaks
populist. "In the future, a Czecho-Slo­
are angered by what they see
There also are enormous dif­vak republic will exist," he said. ferences between the 10 million as Prague's indifference, "We don't want to break up the Czechs and 5 million Slovaks. Czecho-Slovak republic." 
however. 

The Observer/Meg Kowalski 
"The Czechs cannot put the question this way: Either this 
Czech traditions embrace Meciar does want Slovak 
It may not be a limousine ... 
15th century Hussite Protes­sovereignty, which Filkus said
kind of federation, or we split,"
tantism, early industrial devel­is needed to adapt economic 
While some students may prefer the comfort of a luxury automobile, 
declared Rudolf Filkus, an
opment, Franz Kafka and policies and ease the burden of 
most find that bicycles, like this one outside of the library, are a more
economist and leading memberHavel, the dissident playwright reform. 
practical means of transportation around campus. 
of Meciar's Movement for a
who became president. 
Aristide Backs Blockade Plan; Says could end impasse 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP) States has plans to begin the facto military-backed govern­shipments have come from Eu­claiming the embargo was hav­-Haiti's exiled president ac­blockade and predicted such an ment. ropean nations that have not ing a disproportionate effect on cused drug traffickers Sunday effort could work "within a few The OAS called a hemisphere­taken part in the embargo, the poor. of keeping his homeland afloat days." wide embargo after Aristide, others from countries partici­Aristide criticized the em­despite an international em­Aristide spoke at a news con­Haiti's first freely elected pres­pating in the embargo, either bargo as ineffective, saying bargo, and said he backed a ference on his arrival in San ident, was overthrown by the directly or transferred from the those who overthrew him have blockade to force a return to Juan. His remarks followed a military in September. neighboring Dominican Repub­turned to drug trafficking and democracy. newspaper report that the OAS Since then, however, Haiti has lic. contraband to get around it and 
Jean-Bertrand Aristide said was considering an embargo to continued to get shipments of The United States resumed profit from the shortages it has the Organization of American increase pressure on Haiti's de oil and other supplies. Some trade with Haiti this year, caused. 

March 
continued from page 1 

L'Arche 

continued from page 1 
Nouwen reminded everyone that pain cannot be hidden in a community because other members know too well when one is hurting. 
week, is not so much to spark any debate, but to raise public awareness in an attempt to end the problem of sexual assault in our community. 
Upon arriving at the Grotto, meditation and prayers were 
ate of Notre Dame, presented her thoughts on her experience as an assistant at L'Arche­Daybreak. After a short ques­tion and answer session, Nouwen celebrated the liturgy of the Eucharist. The weekend closed with a supper and a farewell. 
offered for the end of this problem plaguing these cam­puses and in our society. The group ended the march at Fieldhouse Mall at Notre Dame, encouraging people to continue their efforts against the violent 
Since his time as a Notre Dame professor, Nouwen has returned to the University sev­eral times in the past twenty­five years. Nouwen came to ND in 1983 to dedicate the newly renovated esc. and again in 1989 to visit ND with members of Daybreak for a similar actions of sexual assault. 
Other events to promote awareness during Sexual As­sault Awareness Week include a ribbon distribution on Monday, March 23, 1992. Each ribbon displayed on the Campuses is 
weekend. 
Nouwen said he was very pleased with this weekend. He said he felt that, "People at Notre Dame are interested in L'Arche. The growing bond be­tween Notre Dame and the L'Arche communities in North America makes me love to come representative of the number of survivors of rape within the communities. 

Further events are scheduled throughout the week. Further information can be found on flyers around the campuses. 
back and renew the many friendships I have here." 
The weekend was co-spon­sored by Epworth Memorial United Methodist Church, the Center for Social Concerns, and Emmaus, the South Bend com­munity with the mentally handi­capped. 
Living in such a unique envi­ronment, Nouwen said that he learned to forgive and to cele­brate life, for only then will one be truly free. 
Following Nouwen's talk, Eileen Doherty, a 1990 gradu-



Pre-Law Society Meeting 
CONTESTANTS 
WANTED!! 

Wwcaw~ March 23, 7 pm
WIN A FREE TRIP TO LOS ANGELES! 
EXCITING TV GAME SHOW SEEN ON 

Ww8[](3~ Cushing Auditorium 
LIFETIME NETWORK M-F 
AT 1:30 AND 6:30 P.M. 
"SHOP 'TIL YOU DROP" 

Ww'{)~ To prepare juniors for the application process to law school 
YOU COULD WIN A FANTASY SHOPPING SPREE TO PARIS, ROME 
OR HONG-KONG PLUS INCREDIBLE PRIZES 

Dean Waddick, Dean Mclean of the Law School 
* IDEAL CONTESTANTS: 

and Professor Susan Vance of St. Mary's will be speaking 
UNOERGRAD MALE & 
FEMALE TEAMS * 
PLACEt HOLIDAY INN -515 DIXIEWAY NORTH 


IMPORTANT MEETING FOR SENIORS-TO-BE
TUESDAY, MARCH 24 5 -9 P.M. 
--~-------~--~-~­

Law students to donate earnings to fellowship 
By HEATHER TREMBLAY News Writer 
The annual fund raiser given by the Public Interest Law Fo­rum (PILF), a student funded fellowship, began in the law school Friday. 
Law students with "traditional" paying summer jobs pledge their earnings, usu­ally from one day, to support those who work in public inter­est fields, according to Susan Wilham, one of the directors of PILF. These fields include such things as working in legal aid clinics and judicial clerkships. They are usually low paying or volunteer jobs, she said. 
The money for the drive is pledged in the spring, collected over the summer, and dis­tributed over the next school year, said Wilham. 
A table will be set up in the law school from March 20 to April 3 where students can make pledges. Many law firms match the amount pledged by their summer employees. They want to encourage the habit of public interest work, said Wil­ham. 
Last year the drive brought in between $5,000 and $6,000 from students. This year Wil­ham hopes to receive $10,000, she said. 
"I don't think it's too much to ask," Wilham said. "A day's salary is not a lot to give, and it really adds up." 
The drive is important to keep people interested in public interest jobs, she said, because "most people can't afford to earn almost nothing over the summer." 
Symposium will explore frontiers of engineering 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame will hold a Sesquicentennial Symposium on "The Frontiers of Engineering Research" today and Tuesday at the Center for Continuing Education. 
"The objective is assessment of current frontiers in each of the major engineering disci­plines, directions in which we are moving, and an identifica­tion of areas of pressing re­search needs," according to Arvind Varma, professor of chemical engineering. 
The symposium's events in­clude the following discussions: 
• "From the Sesquicentennial to the 21st Century through Civil Engineering," by Robert Taylor, professor of civil engi­neering at the University of Cal­ifornia at Berkeley, today at 
1:30 p.m. 
• "Objects Need Not Be Real," by John Hopcroft, chairman of the computer science depart­ment at Cornell University, to­day at 2:30 p.m. 
• 
"Challenges and Opportuni­ties in Materials Science and Engineering," by Gareth Thomas, scientific director of the First National Center for Electron Microscopy and pro­fessor of materials science and mineral engineering at the Uni­versity of California at Berkeley, today at 4 p.m. 

• 
"Research in Information Theory: Is the End in Sight?" by James Massey, ND alumnus and professor at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, Tuesday at 9 a.m., and 

• 
"Engineering Research in the Thermal Sciences," by Richard Goldstein, head of the mechanical engineering de­partment at the University of Minnesota, Tuesday at 10:30 a.m. 




lJfcoming Events 
THURSDAY, MARCH 26 MYRA SHAPIRO Poet and Author 
"POEMS OF PEACE AND 
WAR" Cospousored widt tile Departmeot of Eaglisb 
1 4:00p.m. 
The Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
FRIDAY. MARCH 27 SURESHBABU MadnM Christian College, India "THE INDIA-PAKISTAN 
CONFLICT" Cospoaoiored widt the Departmeot of Government and IDtemational Studies and the Kellogg lmtifute 
12:30 p.m. Conference Room 103 The Hesburgh Center 
Everyone Welcome 
INSTITUTE FORIll INTERNATIONAL

111111 ~N~;; o;J;!?r!:~ 

The Observer/ Meg Kowalski 
Give a cheer! 

Enthusiastic Notre Dame students cheer on their fellow classmates at the cheerleading tryouts, which were held on Friday and Saturday night at the JACC. 
Attansio to leave NO for St. Louis 
By MARY MURPHY News Writer 
John Attanasio, professor of law at the University of Notre Dame Law School and director of the University's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, will resign both positions effective June 30 to become dean of St. Louis University Law School in St. Louis. 
Attanasio has been a member of the Notre Dame Law School faculty since 1985 and director of the Kroc peace institute since July 1991. 
"I've never looked to leave Notre Dame," Attanasio stated. 
St. Louis approached Attana­sio last October, but he said he was not attracted to the offer at that stage in his career. The offer, however, was a difficult one to refuse, he added. 
"It was a difficult decision, because I love this place so much," said Attanasio. "There is a feeling of community and spirit," Attanasio said. "I have 

.·,:.<}~~~~~ :;;1/j"···::·: 
John Attanasio 

a deep affection and high re­gard for the student body, the faculty, and the staff." 
"The thing that really pushed me was the fit between my in­terests and their interests," At­tanasio commented. 
St. Louis University has a na­tionally recognized Health Law Center which includes a bioethics program. "I've done a lot of scholarship in bioethics," Attanasio stated. 
The Law School in St. Louis is also recognized for its program established in Eastern Europe. Attanasio has done parliamen­tary and judicial works in East­ern Europe, thus building his expertise in that area. 
"I have a deep interest in in­ternational law issues, particu­larly Eastern Europe and the European community," he re­marked. 
Attanasio described the Law School as a "tremendous place with great faculty." However, he said he hopes to "build it to the next level of excellence" by developing the international, health, and employment law programs. 
Notre Dame will feel the loss of Professor Attanasio, accord­ing to Notre Dame's provost Timothy O'Meara. 
"John Attanasio is an ener­getic and creative law scholar who is well suited to a dean­ship," said O'Meara. "We wish him well at St. Louis, and he takes with him our thanks for his contributions to Notre Dame both in the law school and in his brief stay as head of the peace institute." 

NO GERMAN SUMMER LANGUAGE INSTITUTE 
JVNE :W.: AUGUSTS. DB 
The Notn Da-Germaa su-rLaaauaae Iaatltute ollen aa lateadve au-r• ....,....ol eouraea aad cultural earlc.._t. Eara up to 9taaauaae cndlta at suz per cndlt hour 0) Ia •-11, UYely .......taullfrt with lmaclaatloa. Both prolee-n (WIDJa-f4 Wl-r) are experieaced Ia ollerial -cet11trated, yet penoaaJbed iaatructloa. 
LEARN Dm LANGUAGE OF THE 901es 
c.n.-J'o.tuN J'Dees/..... Vfu../JnteNetiue VU..Ic...ukn/VfMo Dbcs Deft~ Tuterfolftl st.to ef tlw art....,_,.,.._,.~ 
Tuftf_ ...,_,. 
Pers-•1 AHentf­1-·ftlatfue :hutrueti­
Lf&>e~C,_sr_A,_ospfNN 
Two o..-fenftfl Pref•-• 

~ (J, .cadbaiiiUlllh Jle&lll•ill8 Ger....lr Ja•e Z4-Jal)' 7 b credita) r.-o1-'--·-tieGen.aa hr
..................­
......  
GE :101  ·­wtda-er  
GEJ:oz  Jle&lll•ill8 Ger... Dr JaiJ' o-J•IJ' Z1 U crecftb) <:o.tl•••dea el GE :101  
CE:IO~  Jle&la•ill8 Geraaaa mt JalJ' :a· Aapot 4 U crecftb) Ceed•••-el CE J:OZ FalliDo ND t..,_-n-t.  
GEns  la--.&ateGen.aalt JaaeZ4-JaiJ' :11 b..-.) A _ ....f-otadetlto wtth­....,........,.,. Ia ~. --­....-...-..---.-tia&t..............1•--.riateGen.aa Dr Jal)' 1• • A-ot I U -ita) Colldaaa-el GE szs  

AppUcaUoo forDJS .mu: B obtained bx wrltln£ U& 
Summer School Director 31~ Malo Building University of Notre Dame 
---------~--------~------------­ --~ ~---­ 
page 6 The Observer  Monday, March 23, 1992  
Clinton, Brown debate  
issues over airwaves  

BRIDGEPORT, Conn. (AP) ­Democratic presidential front­runner Bill Clinton defended his wife and his integrity Sunday as he and rival Jerry Brown dueled over the airwaves and across Connecticut in preparation for their first head­to-head showdown. 
Clinton kept his focus on President Bush, saying Con­necticut and other states that rely heavily on military work were "about to be blindsided" by defense cuts because Bush had no plan for converting to a civilian economy. 
"No other nation would con­sider the kinds of cuts we are about to have in defense with­out a plan for what these peo­ple will be able to do," the Arkansas governor told a community meeting in Bridge­port, an impoverished city that filed for bankruptcy last year. 
But during a national televi­sion appearance, Clinton was peppered with questions about his integrity, and Brown used a separate television interview and his later events to attack Clinton. 
Brown said Clinton's Arkansas administration "will go down in the history books for 
Political 
I


prom1ses on the rise 

NEW HAVEN, Conn. (AP) ­Politicians are usually adept at promising voters what they want to hear. Critics may call it pandering, but it's become part of every campaign. This year, the promises list is long and growing. 
Democratic front-runner Bill Clinton, campaigning across Connecticut for Tuesday's pri­mary, has criticized the Bush administration for moving to scrap contracts for the Seawolf submarine, built in Groton. 
That seems to conflict with Clinton's general call for cuts in defense spending. But the cut, contained In Bush's budget, would result In the layoffs of thousands of Connecticut workers and has become an emotional political issue. 
Former Sen. Paul Tsongas of Massachusetts, before he with­drew from the race last week, criticized Clinton for "pandering" to Connecticut voters and suggested that the submarine would be killed un­der any post-Cold War pro­gram. 
"It is not pandering," Clinton Insisted Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press." He said he had con­sulted with "a wide range of defense advisers" before decid­ing to favor the sub. 
He said Bush's proposal to kill the Seawolf was "a clear example of his insensitivity ... he's going to throw all those people on the street." 
Former California Gov. Jerry Brown has also attacked Clin­ton on the Seawolf issue as he wages his own unconventional campaign here. He told a rally that the odds of Clinton actually preserving Seawolf if he were elected is "about the same as his selecting (Connecticut Sen.) Joe Lieberman for vice presi­dent." 
Clinton has accused Brown of 
"re-inventing himself' through 
the years. 

President Bush, who has the 
highest profile of any candidate 
for broken campaign promises 
with his abandoned "no new 
taxes" pledge, is no slacker in 
the pandering department this 
campaign season. 

what not to do in American politics. It either comes out now or George Bush and his samurai warriors make mincemeat of Mr. Clinton." 
Clinton, interviewed on NBC's "Meet the Press," dismissed such suggestions. 
"I have been subjected to at­tacks in the press that are un­precedented for anybody run­ning for president," Clinton said. "I don't have any reserva­tions about the strength of my character or my ability to be president." 
Both Democrats headed from New York television studios to a day of campaigning in Con­necticut, including a joint ap­pearance at a church anti~vio­lence rally with Jesse Jackson -where Jackson was greeted with chants of "Run Jesse Run" by the predominantly black au­dience. 
Jackson stole the show from the Democratic candidates, leading a spirited sermon in which he denounced the grip of drugs, violence and decaying families on America's inner ci­ties. "This is not your fault, but it is your challenge," he told the candidates seated behind him on the altar. 
A classic performance 
Jason Catania, a Flanner Hall junior, and Knott Hall sophomore Carolyn Tobolski entertain their audience with Brahms' "Hungarian Dances" at the First Annual Fine Arts Fund Concert this weekend. 






cearance. 

Attentions shoppers. During our incredible spring sale, you can see the best of Britain for the best of prices-just $224* one way, based on round-trip purchase to London. Simply purchase your ticket by March ~J., for travel Monday through Thursday commencing April J. through June 1.4, 1.992, and September J. through September ~o, 1992. And, if you're looking ahead this summer, you will f"md plenty of summer bargain affairs also. Of course, you'll receive the complementary headsets, free drinks, classic: cuisine, and exceptional service that British Airways is famous for. So call your travel agent or British Airways at 1·80o-AIRWAYS today. But don't delay. After all, if you're shopping for bargains this spring, wouldn't you rather do it in London? 
• Fare does not Include $18 agricultural, customs and immigration fees, and International departure tax. 
BRITISH AIRWAYS 
T11e worldS favourite airline.• 7 

TERMS U CONDITIONS : Fare Basis VOXABES. Fare required round trip purchase. Applicable for travel coaunenclng 4·1-9% through 1>-11-9% and 9-1-9:1 through 9-30-9% only. Travel 1>-IS-9% through 8-31-9% slightly higher. Travel must be completed by IG-30-9Z· Minimum stay: 7 days ; Maximum stay: 30 days or return by 111-30-9:&, whichever occurs first. Travel permitted Monday through Thursday, travel permitted other days of the week at additional charge. Travel permitted betw'een Detroit and London on British Airways services only. Stop overs are permitted. Reservations and ticket issue must be completed at least 14 days prior to departure or before :J--).1a9Z, whichever ~urs flrrt. Outbound reservations may not be changed, return reservations may be changed for a fee of $100. Fare 18 non-refundable once ticket. are issued. Fare may be combined with preseason sale on B.A. land pacluges. Unleu specifically permitted in written promotional material luued by British Airways, this promotion may not be combined with any other fare or special promotional offer, part, present, or future. Frequent Flyer mlleqe award• DUlY not be redeemed in conjunction with thia pro&ram. Children, Privileged Traveler and other discounts not permitted. Thl8 tare Jna)" not be avallable on all hl&hta, and may not be available when 
you call. Fares are oubjec:t to change 'Without notice and are subject to Government Approvals. 
r---------~--~--­

may stre 
KAZAN, Russia (AP) Tatarstan's president, se~eking to allay fears his region ~..•• overwhelming vote for inde~ pendence could help splinter the Russian Federation, said 
Sunday he will swiftly mov...;,e••rt~: ittion iS i~rJMWI<i01W tl:ij
reaffirm ties with Bo Yeltsin's government. "Our first step will be to an-constituent tm·Tit,ori,es;· 
Monday, March 23, 1992 The Observer page 7 
Albanians test communism 
nounce a tighter union with,.. A tatat Russia, to strengthen and ln!t;!tKM tensity ties, to create new rela~ tions with a reformed · ···•· ··· President Mintimer Shaimiyev re~~o~rnlltiolt{, said in an interview with The Associated Press. 
He spoke a day after citizens of the region voted nearly 2·L in favor of declaring Tatarstan a sovereign state. The referen-+ dum raised fears that the sQ.. called "autonomous republic'"" of 3. 7 million peo.ple would · · ·· · cede from Russia, s process that could unravel federation's patchwork of eth­nic homelands. 
The Russian government has refused to accept the Tatarstan referendum, which was declared unconstitutional by a Russian court an~ strongly opposed by Yeltsin. 
Shaimiyev said previously that the region, 500 miles east of Moscow, was simply trying to gain control of its oil and other natural resources to benefit its own people. 
He contended Sunday that 
rx1m~1t uuu:1er. 

the referendum could save Russia -rather than destroy it -if Yeltsin's government took the opportunity to grant real autonomy to territories that have been autonomous in name only. 
There was no immediate re­action Sunday to the Tatarstan vote from other autonomous 
areas. ·.,,,....,,,....... ····· Shaimiyev, sensitive to. Rus­sia's anxiety, promised to fol­low a moderate course. 

TIRANA, Albania (AP) -Citi­zens of Europe's poorest coun­try voted Sunday in a water­shed election testing whether anti-communists can sweep away the Socialist successors to a legacy of isolation and Stalinism. 
The number of Albanians lined up to vote Sunday was easily matched by the crowds waiting to buy kerosene or bread, underlining the fact that the state of the economy was a key element in the campaign. 
Media said as many as 85 percent of the 2 million voters went to the polls in most dis­tricts. 
Radio Tirana quoted the country's electoral commission as saying the anti-Communist Democrats won 60 percent of the vote in Tirana, the capital, where they were expected to do well. It reported that Democrats captured 68 percent of the vote in a district in central Lushnje and almost 78 percent in the northern town of Kruje. 
Initial projections by the Democrats late Sunday showed their party winning a sweeping 79 percent of the vote in 33 dis­tricts, compared to only 15 percent for the Socialists. Those projections could not be confirmed and the Democrats had proved to be overoptimistic in last year's elections. 
The Democrats faced en­trenched Socialist support in the countryside, where 65 per­cent of Albania's 3.2 million people live. 
Final results might not be compiled for days. Run-off elec­tions will be held next Sunday in districts where no candidate gains a majority. 
Albanians are living in a world of hunger, crime and chaos. Unemployment is 50 percent, Albania survives on foreign aid, food riots have been common and supplies of heat and electricity are spo­radic, even in the cities. 
In Sunday's balloting, the Democratic Party was expected to ride to victory on a wave of discontent. 
About 200 people loudly cheered Democratic leader Sali Berisha at a polling station in Tirana. 
As he cast his ballot, Berisha said: "This day marks the end of the Communist night and the beginning of the day of democ­racy. God bless Albania." 
But in the village of Perondi, in the countryside south of Ti­rana, veterinarian Fatmir Ilizai said people saw the Socialists as the "only party interested in 
the poor." "They will ensure schools, hospitals and housing," he said. 
The Democrats have tried to chip away at Socialist support in the countryside. Last year, voters in larger cities solidly supported the Democrats and are expected to do so again. 
More than 500 candidates from a dozen parties were run­ning for the new parliament. The current parliament has 250 seats. The new one will have about 150 -one seat for each of 100 electoral districts, and others depending on how many parties clear the 4 percent hur­dle for additional seats under a proportional system. 
Polls generally opened at 7 a.m., but bureaucratic glitches slowed the start of voting in some districts. Tirana was very quiet as the day progressed, but both the Democrats and Socialists complained of some voting irregularities. 
Western monitors did not of­fer any comprehensive picture of the fairness of the balloting. 
But one, senior Council of Eu­rope representative Stig Gustafsson of Sweden, said he had seen no violations in a swing through 20 precincts in Tirana, the port city of Durres and Kruje. 


France sees shift from Socialism 
PARIS (AP) -President Francois Mitterrand's Socialists captured less than 20 percent of the vote in regional elections Sunday as disillusioned voters shifted away from mainstream parties toward extreme-right and ecology movements, according to nearly complete results. 
when they won 29 percent of the vote. 
"It's a real fall," acknowl­edged government spokesman Jack Lang. He blamed the re­sults on ''a sort of erosion" he said all parties face when they have ruled for an extensive pe­riod. The Socialists took over in 1981, and Mitterrand won a second seven-year term in cent they got in 1986. Coupled with the good showing by the ecologist and extreme-righ par­ties, the election signaled frus­tration with traditional politics. 
"Confusion reigns," said con­servative leader Jacques Chirac. "The French above all sanctioned the Socialist Party, which is only a shadow of it­



Leaders of a conservative al­1988. self." liance gloated that it was the Premier Edith Cresson, whose The pugnacious Jean-Marie
REMINDER: 

worst showing of a governing deep unpopularity is among the Le Pen speculated that his Na­party since the current consti­reasons for the Socialist de­
tional Front could have faredHospitality Program Members: tution was adopted in 1958. cline, immediately denied that better if his rallies hadn't been The alliance was the biggest she would resign as head of disrupted by sometimes violent
Please attend the brief meeting single winner Sunday, making government. protests during the campaign. them the favorites in next year's 
The voting followed a nasty

at 7:00pm Monday, March 23 in 
parliamentary elections. The alliance of two conserva­campaign that focused on per­Hayes-Healey Auditorium tive parties -the Rally for the sonalities instead of issues, and Interior Ministry figures Republic and the Union for left many citizens too disgusted
showed that with 90 percent of French Democracy -won the to vote. the votes counted in regional largest share of the vote at 33 assembly races across France, percent. Two rival ecological A late surge in voting before 
(Room 122) 

Please bring your appointment 
the Socialists had won 18 per­party shared 14 percent of the polls closed at 8 p.m. vaulted cent of the vote, below the 20 vote, the extreme-right National turnout to about 66 percent,
books or personal calenders. If 
percent hoped for by party Front got 13.5 percent and the estimates by three polling firms leaders. Communists 7.9 percent. indicated. That was well above
you have any questions, call the 
The results confirmed the So­
pre-election predictions that 

cialists' steep decline since the The conservatives' tally was only half of the 37.6 million last regional vote, in 1986, notably lower than the 39 per-voters would cast ballots. 
Admissions Office: 239-7505 
Guatemalan


Thinkingofdoing 
Imports 

ayearofservice? 
-New shipment
NATIONAL 
from Guatemala

How about doingit 
NUTRITION 
-Bargain corner
MONTH• 
-Silk clothing 


for alifetime? 
from india 
LOW-FAT, LOW-CALORIE 
-Raffle for
Have you considered 
chance to win 

LUNCH AND DINNER SPECIALS
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
$60 in merchandise A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates 
FEATURED MARCH 23-27 

interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. 
(Proceeds go to Scholarship assistance is available. 
Cooperative/Clinic in 
OAK ROOM 
Metzecal, Guatemala) 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C. S.C. 

SOUTH DINING HALL Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 
Rm 108 LaFortune 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Mon-Sat March 23-28 
(219) 239-6385 

CALL OUR MENU LINE 239-7518 
10-5 pm 

-------~-­
~~ 



Mon. Mar. 30-Wed. Apr 1 
11 a.m.-3 p.m. If you want your protrait taken on these days, sign up at the In­formation desk in LaFortune during the week Mar. 23-27. 
. .. . . 

"fhursday A.vr. 
2 .__­
ll.a.m.~t.p.fu..­<3 p.lll~-s p.m,< -<·-•· 
-·-Ifyou wanJyourportrait taken onthis day, sign up at North Dining Half during lunch or dinner onMar. 26~27. 
Friday Apr. 3 11.a.m.-1.p.m. 
3 p.m.-5 p.m. If you want your portrait taken on this day, sign up at South Dining Hall during lunch or dinner on Mar. 26-27. 
-~--------~ 

-~-----­
....---~---~-~---------------------------­
Monday, March 23, 1992 
New documents serve history more than justice 
LOS ANGELES (AP)-Nazi hunters sifting Russian, Euro­pean and Argentine archives to unmask aging war criminals in the United States fear the newly available dossiers will ulti­mately serve history, but not justice. 
Investigators are poring over archives throughout Eastern Europe and in provincial capi­tals in the former Soviet Union that were otT-limits during the Cold War. 
And last month, Argentine President Carlos Menem re­leased nles to the Los Angeles­based Simon Wiesenthal Center about Nazis who fled to Ar­gentina after World War II. 
What researchers are fmding will add detail to Nazi atrocities and the fate of thousands who disappeared in the Holocaust. But the archives may be of limited use to prosecutors. 
"We must move with dis­patch, because time is against justice," said Martin Mendel­sohn, legal counsel to the Wiesenthal Center and former chief of the Justice Depart­ment's Nazi-hunting unit. 
Brewster Chamberlin, archives director of the new United States Holocaust Mu­seum in Washington, has mi­cronlmed documents in Latvia, Moscow, Ukraine, Byelorussia, Hungary, Poland, Czechoslo­vakia and eastern Germany. The museum will have 1 million documents on the Holocaust when it opens next year. 
Included are faded pho­tographs, yellowed papers, records on Nazi death squads, population counts for Jewish ghettos and concentration camps, transportation orders and notations on the sale of Jewish property. 
The archives also promise to shed light on the fate of Gyp­sies, resistance fighters, Jeho­vah's Witnesses and others persecuted in Central and East­ern Europe, Chamberlin said. 
But, he said: "The fate or destiny of those who partici­pated generally is not shown unless they were killed in carrying out their horrid duties." 
Allan Ryan Jr., a former chief of the Justice Department's Of­fice of Special Investigations, estimates 10,000 war criminals, including prison guards, their superiors and collaborators, were among 400,000 refugees who came to the United States between 1948 and 1952. 
Since it was founded in 1979, the office has obtained orders to deport only 30 alleged war criminals from the United States. Prosecutions by the of­fice based on the new informa­tion are unlikely, Ryan said. 
"The trail grows cold. Wit­nesses die," said Ryan, now a Harvard University attorney. "Cases that could be made in 1950 can't be made (today). And the burden of proof against the government is very high." 



Class of 1994 
Join the Junior Class Council 
Positions of Donn Reps and Committee Commissioners are available. 

Applications due Friday, March 27 and are available in the Sophomore Class Office or from your rector. 
~**************************************lowly mob associate in 1977 to 
* FRESHMEN! SOPHOMORES'--.b~ss of t~e ~ighty Gambin_o
* 
· *cnme family m 1985? And hiS 

* 
~"<II iihl<~ C©OO~t~~Jil ©U Li\,111 n. n_ 11 ,~11 ,11 IP•<~HIIIi: * acqm a m ree na s m Ive * -.years?


.. .. 

: MEET YOUR MAJOR
* MARCH 23-26, 1992
..
* Monday March 23
..
* 4:30-5:30 p.m.
* 
* 
..
* 7:00-8:00 p.m.
* 
: Tuesday March 24 
.. 4:30-5:30 p.m. ..
* 
* 
: 7:00-8:00 p m
* 
: Wednesday March 25
.. 
4:30-5:30 p.m.

..
..
..
.. 7:00-8:00 p m
..
.. 
Thursday March 26

..
.. 4:30-5:30 p.m
..
.. 7:00-8:00 p.m.
..
.. 
!!:: 
-------~-~-----.... 
The Observer page 9 

The Observer/ Meg Kowalski 

The joy of cooking 

Jacquelin Martinez (left) and Nisha Patel, sophomores of Knott Hall, test their culinary skills and avoid the dining hall cousine in Knott's kitchen. 
Trial revealed 'goofy godfather' 
NEW YORK (AP) -Once hailed as a criminal master­mind, John Gotti has emerged at his racketeering trial as a goofy godfather who violated the underworld's basic rules: No drug dealers, no loose talk, no blatant tax dodging. And no losing money on your own games. 
Witnesses and surveillance tapes have shown Gotti sur­rounding himself with heroin traffickers, talking constantly about his activities, repeatedly failing to file tax returns and losing large sums at the gam­bling operations that were his alleged source of income. 
Gotti may be intelligent ­he's reported to have an I.Q. of around 140 -and even his critics gave him credit for a certain low cunning. What else would explain his rise from 

But FBI tapes, prosecution testimony and Gotti's own words at his trial have made the Dapper Don look like a dummy. The counts in this unofficial indictment: 
• The Gambler 

Gatti and three partners put up $120,000 a decade ago to start an illegal casino. But Gatti began to bet against the house, and after a few nights he was in debt for $55,000. 
He fared no better betting on sports. At one point in the 1981 football season, Gatti was down $200,000. 
• The Loose Talker 

Gotti was slow to appreciate the quantum leap in the gov­ernment's electronic eaves­dropping skills. Many of his most damaging admissions were recorded in an apartment above the Ravenite Social Club, his hangout in Manhattan's Lit­tle Italy neighborhood. 
He spent much of January 1990 expounding on the virtue of silence -as the FBI listened in. On Jan. 24, he warned his colleagues about the danger of being recorded: "From now on, I'm telling you, if a guy just so much as mentions 'La,' ... I'm gonna strangle the guy.... He don't have to say, 'Cosa Nostra.' Just 'La' and they go." 
• The Wrong Friends 
His brother Gene is serving a 50-year prison sentence, and his brother Vincent is also in prison for narcotics trafficking. Some of the people who al­legedly conspired with Gotti to kill former Gambino boss Paul Castellano were drug dealers, and several are now serving long sentences. 
Castellano, a boss from the old sclb.ool, had to be dissuaded from killing "Little Pete" Tam­bone for drug dealing, and wound up banishing him. Gatti later promoted him. 
• The Missing Returns 
Between 1984 and 1989, Gotti did not me a single federal tax return. 
American Studies 116 O"Shag 
Music 122 Crowley 
German & Russian 118 O"Shag 
Romance Languages 117 O'Shag 
English 117 Haggar Theology 115 O'Shag 
ALPP 115 O'Shag AE 116 O"Shag Medieval Studies 118 O"Shag Sociology 117 O"Shag 
Economics 118 O"Shag GOTH Loft, O'Shag Philosophy 115 O"Shag 
Alncan American Studies 345 O"Shag Classical & Oriental Lang . 118 O"Shag Education (ND-SMC) 120 O"Shag 
History 118 O"Shag Art, Art History & Design 200 Riley 
Psychology 119 Haggar 
Government 122 Hayes-Healy Anthropology 118 O"Shag 


Please attend these short Informational sessions about the majors that ~ ln1erest youl Open to all students. 
~*********************************** 
~·--------~---·
--~----­

Tonight ... President & Mrs. Jimmy Carter ... Stepan Center 
The University of Notre Dame presents the inaugural 

Notre Dame Award 
to 

President Jimmy Carter and Rosalynn Carter 

Monday, March 23 7 p.m. Stepan Center 
All are invited to attend the presentation and hear a lecture delivered by former President Carter 


---~-----------­




Business 
Monday, March 23, 1992 page 11 
Business Briefs 
• NEW YORK (AP) Shaken by lawsuits and widespread criticism, Dow Corning Corp., the dominant maker of silicone-gel breast implants, reportedly is quitting the business. 
The company stopped making and selling the implants on Jan. 6 after the Food and Drug Administration asked for a moratorium. 
• TUCSON, Ariz. (AP)­Charles Keating Jr. refused to testify when called to defend himself against charges he and his companies tricked thousands of people into buying risky bonds sold by his savings and loan company. 
The former head of American Continental Corp. and Lincoln Savings repeatedly invoked his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination when questioned by lawyers Wednesday in a $1.2 billion federal trial. 
• HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. (AP) -Robert Eaton, head of General Motors Corp.'s prof· itable European operations, joined Chrysler Corp. and will succeed the flamboyant Lee Iacocca as chief executive next year. 
The appointment of Eaton, 52, on Monday marked a per­sonal triumph for Iacocca. who had lobbied for the talented outsider to help steer the troubled automaker through turbulent times, just as lacocca himself bas been hired to do at Chrysler 14 years ago. 
You'll Miss The Big NeXT™ Sale. 
Nearly 40% saving before March 31! 
Admittedly, we're not giving you a lot of time. On the oth­er hand. we're giving you one of the most extraordinary deals you'll ever see: 
Purchase a. NeXTstatlon1M Color computer. with 17-or 21­lnch Color Display and 400 dpl NeXT™ Laser Printer by March 31st. and get nearly 40% off the list price. 
Of course, even•at full price, the NeXTstatlan Color com­puter offers more than any other machine In Its class; 16-blt color. 15 MIPS. standard UNIX™. 16MB of RAM. CO-quality sound. vast storage, true multitasking and the Industry's only true object oriented system software. 
With over 30 bundled applications. Including Mathematl­ca™, It's perfect for statistical analysis. In depth report writing. mathematics or any use that demands true-to-life­color. And with hundreds of off-the-shelf applications to choose from. like WordPerfert™, Lotus™ Improv™ and Soft­perM, it's a perfect productivity machine as well. 

Visit the Notre Dame Computer Resale Center! 

Professor outlines U.S.-Japanese relations 
By SEAN SULLIVAN 
Business Writer 

Japan's economic system is not seen by the United States as a model but as a threat, ac­cording to Professor Bruce Cumming, Chairman of East Asian and International Studies at the University of Chicago. 
"It was apparent by the 1980s that Germany and Japan won the cold war and Russia as well as the United States lost it," according to Cumming who believes that Japan has gained its economic power due to the United State's concern with its military budget and global re­sponsibilities. 
Cumming's lecture Saturday, titled "The Second Coming of the U.S.-Japan conflict," began by outlining the history of Japanese-American economic relations. He was quick to point out that the United States en­couraged Japanese economic growth and expansion for many years after World War II. 
In fact, during this period, leading American economists believed that the United States 
Business council discusses internships, plans forum 

By ANDREW RUNKLE 
Business Editor 

The Notre Dame Council on International Business Devel­opment (NDCIBD) recently met with the Honeywell Corporation to discuss the establishment of an international program be­tween the two parties. The NDCIBD is also sponsoring a forum Wednesday to discuss trade and trade relations among Pacific countries, ac­cording to Amy Mark, director of marketing division for ND-



If You Blink, 
CIBD. 
This internship program will be Honeywell's first active in­volvement with Notre Dame for a number of years. It presently has 30 internships with compa­nies in Eastern and Western Europe and Australia, as well as an english school at the Jagolonian University in Poland. The Honeywell program is unique because it is the first engineering internship of the NDCIBD. 
Honeywell is a multinational corporation involved in areas as broad as avionics,space and de­should use Japan as a model for modernization. However, during this time, ranging from the early 1950s to the mid 1970s the American govern­ment figured that the Japanese would never have the strength nor the technology to penetrate the vast American market. 
This attitude began to change as early as 1970 when Richard Nixon's New Economic Policy imposed a 10 percent surcharge on all Japanese exports to this country. With the dramatic rise of cheap Japanese exports and the subsequent loss of Ameri­can jobs, Cumming states that as a result there has been a growth in a new "Japan bash­ing genre" that endorses con­spiracy theories and the notion that the Japanese government practices industrial fascism and is somehow trying to destroy the United States. 
Cumming refutes the claims of this Japan bashing genre by relating the economic conflict to our own history. He states that "the Japanese are not united as a conspiracy but merely acting as the U.S. did in the early twentieth century." 

"The American tradition is founded in unfair trade and economic policy," said Cum­ming. He cited many examples including Samuel Slater stealing the blue prints to the cotton loom in Britain and bringing them to America which proved to be a major step in the estab­lishment of America's industrial development. 
Cumming believes that much of the problem is that the United States government spends so much on its military. He believes that this trend will leave us as the country "that can devastate the world with military power but not devas­tate it with economic power." 
Education is another impor­tant factor according to Cum­ming. He attributes the success of Japan and Korea primarily to the superior educational systems and their dedication to education. He asks how else could two small countries with so few natural resources be so successful. Professor Cumming says that "the U.S. must get its house in order" by "reducing its 
fense systems and fertilizers. The internship program will be for two summers. At the end of the sophomore year the stu­dents will spend summer work­ing in one of the U.S. divisions, and then the following summer working in one of the overseas divisions such as Moscow, Vi­enna, Tokyo, Singapore or Syd­ney. 
The title of the forum to be held Wednesday is "Trading in the Pacific Rim: Trade blocks and their future impacts on trade and trade relations." Participating in the panel dis­
------~~----~--------------------------~ 
WHAT IF YOU DON'T GO INTO THE 
KHOOL OF 
YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure. there are other schools. But whysettle? Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and their chances of being admitted into their first-choice schools. Fad is. noone has helped students score higher' 

1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, IN 46637 

(219) 272-4135 
military budget and relinquish­ing many of its global responsi­bilities." 
For the future Cumming pre­dicts that "the United States will return to itself or we will persist in a post cold war situation where we hold military clout while Japan uses their In­dustrial power to hollow out our economy." He says that President Bush's recent budget which allots $268 billion to de­fense spending is not a step in the right direction. If budgets like this continue, Professor Cumming believes that "the U.S. will have 20 to 30 years to maintain its hegemonic control over the world's political and military situation." 
Cumming concluded by ex­plaining that the two goals of containment after World War II were to contain communism as well as the economic inter­vention of Japan and Germany into our economy. While we ac­complished our goal in contain­ing communism, we failed mis­erably in containing the intervention of Japan and Germany, Cumming said. 
cussion will be Kevin Gates, Australian consulate-general; David Wang, a Taiwanese 
M.B.A at Notre Dame: Jira­paran Tilapat, a representative from the Thailand Council, and a representative from the U.S. Department of Commerce in Washington, D.C. 
The forum is designed to al­low questions to be asked and discussion between the panel and the audience, according to Mark. The forum will be held at 7 p.m. in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for Inter­national Studies. 

C/992NrXT'Compuler. Inc. AU rirhts ~d.Ndl; IMNeXTioto..JNdl'Jklliott arr~o{NdTCO<rlpUln;lrte. UNIX i1 a ~~iutred ~rt of UNIX Syll.mu l.Dbs. MadJmtalica ira rqism-J lnldnnattofl\blfran R~uarch.. 


AU oiMr l1'rMkmllrb mmtioNJ INtottg to tkir rr:sptelive cnmen. TM 

page 12 Monday, March 23, 1992 
---------------------------------~--------­


Viewpoint 
.--·Ih---. e__ -Q~L~-~~er---­
-~~A.-=Y:! 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes VIewpoint Editor •••••••••..•......Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .••.••.•......Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ......•..••••••••••••Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor__Anna Marie Tabor Controller ..•......•••..•......••• David Beliyeau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
Victim's cousin took away her ability to trust unconditionally 
Dear Editor:  ture fast in order to survive  
Nine years ago, my thirteen  emotionally.  
year-old brother, John, and I  Consequently, I questioned my  
woke early on Christmas morn­ good judgement, for how could  
ing to find Santa had come. We  someone I loved so much hurt  
hurried to wish our parents a  me so deeply. I felt ashamed,  
Merry Christmas and convince  cheap, and even dirty. He took  
them it was time to get up and  my virginity and robbed me of  
open the gifts.  my ability to trust others  
After breakfast, I put on my  unconditionally. I felt  
new black velvet dress and  responsible and alone. I expe­ 
begged my mother to wear her  rienced a void, as if a part of  
small, delicate garnet earrings.  me had died.  
We attended Mass and  Finally, I realized that only  
celebrated the holiday with  Louis knew why he touched me;  
family.  therefore, despite everyone's  
When our Christmas feast was  advice, I arranged to meet with  
complete, my brother, cousin  my attacker. I forgave Louis  
Louis, and I left the adults to  that day, and the "Why?" sud­ 
watch television in Louis' room.  denly became evident. By fac­ 
Exhausted from the day's  ing him and showing him that  
events, we talked for a while  he can no longer manipulate or  
until John fell asleep on the  frighten me, I regained control  
other bed. That night, my  of my life. ' ;  
seventeen year-old cousin  Although my cousinllf1r.never  
"touched" me. I was never the  give back what he wr~ngfully  
same.  and violently took from me, I  
Later at home, while undress­ truly believe that there is a  
ing for bed, I realized I had lost  reason for my pain.  
one of the garnets my mother  As a result of his insecure and  
had trusted me with. When she  selfish need to control another,  
asked where it might be and  I became the person I am today.  
wondered what I had done to  His actions shaped my views  
carelessly lose it, I wanted so  and made me a sensitive,  
much to tell her what had hap­ understanding and more com­ 
pened, but Louis' threats  passionate individual. I turned  
echoed in my mind. Instead, I  the evil inflicted upon me into  
remained confused, frightened  goodness. I know not to take  
and silent.  the good things in the world for  
Since Louis was practically a  granted. I am more capable of  
brother to me, we were insepa­ recognizing a cry for help and I  
rable. He taught me to ride a  am more inclined to listen, ad­ 
bike, to swim, and to blow bub­ vise and comfort others in  
bles with my gum. He  need.  
promised he'd never let anyone  Sometimes I look at my life  
hurt me. Ironically, it was he  and I cannot believe that I am  
who I needed protection from.  only nineteen. Sometimes I  
The abuse continued and  wonder what my life would be  
worsened as I grew older.  like if I was never raped. I en­ 
When I was almost thirteen, I  vision being a little girl, and  
was terrified of becoming  even imagine my relationship  
pregnant, and, despite his  with Louis today if he hadn't  
threats. I finally told someone.  betrayed my love and trust.  
Suddenly, the nightmare was  Sometimes I can't help but  
real. And for the very first  wonder how different my rela­ 
time, I cried.  tionships would be if he never  
After many years of counsel­ gave me reason to be so careful  
ing and gradually sharing my  and so afraid to get close.  
experience with close friends  Although the nightmare has  
and family, I still felt alone and  stopped waking me in the mid­ 
empty. I continuously directed  dle of the night, there is never a  
my frustration and anger at  day when I don't think about  
those who loved me and who  what happened. I am no longer  
tried to alleviate my pain.  ashamed of being a victim of  
I blamed myself for what  rape. I now use my experience  
Louis had done to me. I so  to help make a difference with  
desperately needed an answer  others.  
to the question, "Why?." Louis  I am a survivor, and now,  
took away my innocence and  when I look in the mirror, I feel  
my chance to be a little girl. He  whole again.  
robbed me of my dignity and  
self-respect. He made me rna- A Sophomore Survivor  



Viewpoint
Monday, March 23, 1992 page 13 
-
Student is victim of both acquaintance and stranger rape 
Dear Editor: I thought he was going to kill to take a shower, one of the incredibly personal attack and I needed to be treated as 
My first year at Saint Mary's me, and many times in the longest in my life, until I felt an assault on the most intimate though I was normal, and might be considered very typi-years following the assault, I like I had boiled all of his fin-part of an individual, and I worthwhile, and good. My cal of the experience of many have almost wished he had. He gerprints off of my skin. I went needed my own time and my other friends were extremely women on this campus. I had a put his hand over my mouth, down the hallway to a friend's own space to regroup. I de­supportive and understanding, lot of trouble adjusting to col-preventing me from screaming, room, because I felt like I was cided that the best way to do and, if not for their care, I don't lege, getting along with my although I was too frightened to going a little bit crazy, and I this was to work through my think I would be where I am. roommate, and making new yell anyway, and proceeded to needed someone to comfort me, pain by myself. I have now experienced both friends. I was struggling with remove my clothing. desperately. To this day, I have only con-acquaintance rape and stranger tough classes, getting involved The only things racing Talking with my friend, who fided in my close friends the rape, both of which were in campus activities, and miss-through my mind at this point recommended that I seek medi-story of this attack. I did not equally serious, equally ing my hometown honey. And I were the question of survival, cal attention (which I refused to seek counseling, and I did not traumatizing, and equally filled was raped. what I could possibly have done do, and regret not doing, just proceed through the legal sys-with the potential for serious 
After an argument with my to deserve this violation twice in for my own well-being), got me tern. I have discovered my own physical injury, aside from the boyfriend in the spring my life, and the disembodied through the initial battle with methods of coping with my emotional and psychological semester of my first year here, I feeling that somehow this grief and paranoia, but it didn't pain, and I am surviving, and I harm done. left my room with the intention wasn't really happening, after solve it. am able to be happy and This is NOT an anomalous of walking around campus to let all. He removed his jeans and Anonymously, and from the healthy. But I have also discov­population, which is somehow off some steam. The night was forcefully penetrated me, until phone in the basement of my ered, for the second time, the immune from crime, and this clear and cool, and I felt he was spent. dorm so that they would not be unbelievable agony of self­fact has been made all too clear reasonably safe, since, after all, Throughout the attack, he able to trace the call back to doubt and self-blame that can to many people who have sur­little crime occurs on campus, continued to whisper obsceni-me, I decided to call Saint follow a rape. vived sexual assaults here. Be or so I had been led to believe ties in my ear, demanding a re-Mary's Security to. report the The messages that our com­sensitive to the tremendous by the college brochures and sponse from me (one I couldn't incident, so that the officers munity gives survivors reinforce sense of loss and helplessness 
-
the security statistics. give, obviously), insulting me could be more attentive in that the "blame the victim" felt by survivors of rape, and be 
I was not one of the many and women in general, and area of campus, to try to avoid syndrome. No, I shouldn't have supportive if a friend ap­women who believe that "it telling me not to scream, not to any other attacks. been walking by myself in a proaches you with her pain. won't happen to me," In fact, I struggle, otherwise, he would But the officer who answered poorly lit area of campus at It is not our fault that we had already survived one rape hurt me (as though he wasn't the phone refused to lend ere-night. But that is NOT an of­were raped, we certainly didn't from high school, and I was hurting me already). dence to my report because I . fense for which I deserved to be "ask for it," and we need to re­painfully aware of the way in After he rearranged his refused to give my name, telling raped. gain self-confidence and the which rape can affect anyone. clothing, and shaking me, with me that my report needed to be Nothing I could possibly have ability to trust. I hope that you 
Absorbed in my own the final admonition that I "substantiated" in order to be done that night would warrant learn something other than thoughts, and beginning to shouldn't make a sound, he taken seriously. This meant this kind of attack. Even "don't walk alone" from this, wander the campus, I wasn't took off in the direction of filing an official report, gather-women in this community (although taking steps to avoid thinking about the possibility of 31/33. I, however, lay curled on ing evidence, and possibly sometimes turn against other a potentially dangerous situa­getting attacked. Unfortunately, the ground for a few minutes, proceeding through the legal women who have been raped, tion just makes sense), and I the man who raped me wasn't trying to regain a sense of who system. including my friend, who later hope that you never have a concerned with the way I would and where I was, and to figure I declined to put myself accused me of lying about the story like this to tell. be violated, humiliated, and de-out whether I should lay there through this, although I am attack because I did not exhibit Be assertive and vocal about graded. and die, or get up and go home. dismayed that according to what she thought were the the fact that rape is WRONG, 
He wasn't worried about the I eventaully redressed myself, security statistics and college "normal" characteristics of a that no one has the right to long-term effects his few mo-and went back to my dorm. policy, my rape was somehow rape victim (e.g. hysteria and touch you without your consent, ments of power and control I didn't want anyone to know less "real" than one which .is ensuing sexual dysfunction}. and that you have the right to would have on my sense of se-what had just happened. I felt "officially" reported. I needed I know now that survivors of change your mind at any time curity and confidence. As I was so filthy, so humiliated, so re-to be able to make the decision rape exhibit an enormous spec­even if you have previously walking by the gazebo at the sponsible, and I was sure that to remain silent about the at-trum of reactions to the attack, consented. If you, too, are a South end of Saint Mary's cam-somehow I was going to get in tack so that I could feel as from hysterical crying and survivor of rape, be strong. You pus, a man in dark clothing trouble-feelings that are not though I still had some control paranoia, to severe depression, will survive, and you're not grabbed me and pushed me to unusual for survivors of sexual over my life. to calm reserve. Each one of alone. the ground. assault. The first thing I did was This kind of violation is an these reactions is "normal," and A Senior Survivor 
Student victimized by a close friend ~ 
Dear Editor: left drinking and playing games freaked and said that having:.}',;: . 
In the fall semester of '89 I as I locked myself in the bath-sex had been my idea. That·.~·-­became close friends with a room, threw up, and cried. We he'd climbed into bed and that I : \ ~ man named "Adam." all decided to stay the night, had woken up and "attacked" }:.. Throughout the semester we since none of us could drive. him. That he'd tried stop me, -­spent a lot of our time together. Adam told me to go sleep in his but I was insistent. Said I really ·, ­We talked every day, shared room, since they were still par-wanted to have sex with him. , secrets, and laughs. The day tying in the living room. I told him that I didn't re-'-(, before pre-registration in I unlocked his door, took off member anything. That I didn't ·'" January we returned to South my shoes and jeans and passed believe him. I asked him if he ~: 
Bend and called each other out. I woke up at 8:30 the next remembered what I told him. , -,.,' immediately. morning with a throbbing He did. 1 • '­
He said that was why •lb),.: My best friend and I went to headache. Adam was in bed he had tried to stop me. I asked ~. , _ his house. There were a bunch with me. I felt strange, but my him if he realized how drunk I z~."" ': of us there partying and telling friends and I had crashed there was. That, if during this 
Mo''~s~· t d l"ffl·c·u· t part of ordeal 
Christmas stories. Adam at one before. I blamed the uneasi-hypothetical attack by me, he point pulled me aside and gave ness on my hangover. had thought that maybe I was 
~=s\~~~e~~~et~~~~~~~~th~~ a~~li:~~~ ~~~~efr~:t~~~~~~ ~:~~:~i:: i~h~ {:~!· :~e~~-~ is learning to trust again 
we'd ever been, but I knew that There was semen all over my was. Did he really think it was Dear Editor: sex? we both cared for each other a pubic hair and my stomach. I plausible that I could talk about This letter is to all the naive Was I stupid to have trusted Jot and were ready for the next just stood there trying to chip being raped, cry in a bathroom, people on this campus who my so-called friend to leave me step. He said that if I ever the flakes off of my stomach. It pass out and then wake up don't think that rape happens alone after I made my wishes needed to get away, I could lock wouldn't come off. I woke up aroused? He said that he'd at ND. It happens here-I clear to him? NO NO NO! To 
-
myself in his room and take a my best friend and we left. been drunk, too. know, because it happened to those people I want to say that break. I talked to Adam later that day Adam bought me an EPT test me a little over two years ago. no one deserves the hell I went 
I wanted him to know that I and he didn't mention anything. and it came out negative. I It turned my world upside-through. Rape is unconsented was attracted to him, but I had For the next couple of days I confided in one of my friends, down, and I have been changed sex, and it is time people real-to {eii him that I was afraid. I was depressed and suicidal. I but I didn't tell anyone else. forever as a result. ized that. told him that I had been raped called my therapist. Adam and None of my friends knew that My trust in a friend was I consider myself a very 
· S · · h' h I didn't talk as much. I saw him I'd lain awake in bed all night, completely violated, as was my strong individual. I have han­d
urmg my emor year m Ig body. What started out like so died some pretty emotionally school. I told him about the only when he visited our mutual waiting for first morning urine. many other Friday nights of my agonizing crises in my life. But dance and "Jeff," about how friends. That I'd hid in a stall with a Freshman year turned into a being raped almost broke me. hard it was for me to trust I didn't say anything until my plastic cup at six in the morn-raging nightmare I have been The feeling of powerlessness people, about how slow rela-period was a week late. I had ing. That I had cried and unable to block out. engulfed me and turned me tionships had to be for me. I severe insomnia, I was afraid. smoked alone with a two inch Some people would say that I into a basket case. I withdrew told him that I liked him, but Too afraid to sleep. I was trying plastic test that had a big red deserved what I got because I from my friends, family, and that I had a tendency to run. to decide ifl should have an negative sign. was drinking. Others would life in general. He hugged me and said that he abortion, commit suicide, or try I called Adam and told him the say I deserved it because I As a result of rape, I lost faith understood. And that he cared. and survive with the child. I results. He, too, had been up broke parietals and stayed in in myself and, most sadly, in We returned to the party. We didn't think I could stay in this all night. He cried, too. The his room. Still others would some people I called friends. both drank pretty heavily. I community and finish my edu-last time I talked to him was to say that I deserved it because Learning to trust again has · t t J ff t f cation. I knew I couldn't tell my tell h'm that I had gotten my we had "hooked up" before. been the most difficult part of
t 0 1
was rymg o ge e ou my Well, I am here to ask those this never-ending ordeal. I re­mind. I was trying to be happy parents. period. He transferred last people if I deserved to have ported my rape and wrote this and have fun. I was trying to Adam and his roommate year and I haven't heard from some guy force himself inside letter, not so that I could be a 
get back to the care-free spon-stopped by to visit my best him since. me while I lay sleeping. Did I statistic or sad story, but so that taneous girl that I remembered. friend. Before they left I told deserve to have someone take people would know that rape I got depressed and drunk in-him. I told him that I thought I A Senior Survivor control of my body and my life? happens here. stead. was pregnant and that I Did I deserve the emotional and 
There were about eight of us thought he had raped me. He physical agony of unconsenting A Junior Survivor 
r-----------~---------~-~-~ 


Accent 

page 14 Monday, March 23, 1992 
-


NO sophomores set up internships while seeing Russia first-hand 
By SEAN FARNAN economy. The people are not used to Accent Writer working nine to five and then to whatever it takes to earn the 
C 
ancun. South Padre Is­bonus," Rogers said. land. Daytona. These are among several popular Even with these hardships, the Spring Break destinations. people in the Russian neighborhoods But Moscow? still possess a cohesive and op­
Unlike most ND students, timistic nature. The people still have sophomores Chris Barry and Joe a communist ideology of everyone Rogers traveled to Russia and sticking together and taking care of Estonia. As liaisons for the Notre each other, Barry explained. Dame Citizens Democracy Corps, they set up four internships for In addition to arranging the members of the Notre Dame Council internships, the students recalled on International Business Develop­their week-long Russian experience. ment's Citizen Democracy Corps Beyond the business aspects of the (CDC). They were accompanied by trip, the Americans in the foreign Professor Igor Grazin of the Notre world gained a first-hand view of life Dame Law School and former in Russia. member of the Supreme Soviet. "In Moscow we saw about 70 to 
100 people standing in the bread
-The CDC is a "student arm of the line as well as 60 to 80 people goal of Notre Dame-international waiting for cigarettes. Even the peace, communication, cooperation. family we stayed with had problems We are promoting the spirit and buying gasoline," Barry said. 

ethics of Notre Dame. The students workers' wages are unable to keep price liberalization policies now in are going over there to show According to Barry, the public pace with rapidly escalating prices. effect have allowed prices on some entrepreneurs that ethical business buildings were beautiful because "At the McDonald's in Moscow, for goods such as bread to double over 
works. That is the message we are they're financed by the government. example, customers can purchase a one week period. spreading," Rogers explained. "But the apartments are four hamburgers, four large fries, Regardless of the hardships, both 
"What the CDC is doing is planting dilapidated," Barry said. "The living and four large Cokes for about 2.50 Barry and Rogers recognized a dis­a seed. We're putting students in a conditions are not the best but, American dollars. The rent for a tinct spirit within the Russian business environment that right now they're not awful. There is a lot of modest apartment in Moscow runs people.
does not exist," Rogers continued. peeling paint." approximately $5 per month. A loaf "By sending students there, we'll be Barry continued to explain that of bread costs about $.59." said "The people don't know where bridging the gap. Once the bridge is the apartments were comfortable Barry. they are going but they know that built, everyone can cross it. We but definitely not extravagant. they don't want to go backwards," cannot let Russia slide, because no Barry continues to provide more Rogers commented. one wins if someone loses." "They were not extremely large, examples of the economic He continues, "When I asked a 
but warm, with nice carpeting, a difficulties. Russians are young lady 'How are you going to "This is the first time in the world small kitchen, a TV room, a experiencing trouble with the adapt after 70 years of Communist that a planned economy, like Russia, bedroom and a small bathroom," current situation considering the av­rule?' She said, 'My country has has attempted to make the Barry said. erage monthly wage is ap­been around for thousands of years transition to a free market. So in Barry believes that the major proximately $10. Professionals such and 70 years isn't a long time; we've this transitional time, a free market problem does not lie so much with as doctors are marginally better off, endured greater hardships. This is a 
is being operated by people who shortage of food and consumer earning about $20 per month. period of struggle but it's nothing were educated under a planned goods. The problem exists because In addition to these problems, the the Russian spirit cannot conquer.'" 
Monday, March 23, 1992 The Observer 
Murray sparks Bruins to easy victory over Cardinals Aggies continue down Cinderella path 

TEMPE, Ariz. (AP) -Tracy Murray led a first-half run with 10 straight points and Gerald Madkins sparked a second-half spurt as fourth-ranked UCLA beat Louisville 85-69 Sunday to advance to the NCAA tourna­ment's round of 16. 
Murray, who finished with 26 points and eight rebounds, scored his 10 in a row in a 12-3 spurt that gave the Bruins (27­
4) a 23-10 lead midway through the first half. 
Madkins, who had 14 of his 16 in the second half, sparked a 9-2 run early in the second half after Louisville, trailing 32-25 at halftime, had closed to 37-33. Included was a four-point play when Madkins was fouled making a 3-point shot. 
That opened the lead to 46-35 and Louisville never came closer than nine as the top­seeded Bruins moved on to Albuquerque for a game Thursday night with New Mexico State. The Aggies, 12th seed in the region, beat Southwestern Louisiana 81-73 in the first game of the double­header. 
Don MacLean, who became the leading career scorer in Pac-10 history with his first two points, had 23, 11 from the foul line, and added 10 rebounds for UCLA, which trailed only once, at 2-0. 
James Brewer had 13 to lead Louisville (19-11). Madkins held Everick Sullivan, the Cardinals' leading scorer, to 11. 
New Mexico St. 81, SW Louisiana 73 
TEMPE, Ariz. -William Benjamin's game-tying 3­pointer started a 9-0 run that carried New Mexico State to an 81-73 victory over Southwestern Louisiana in the second round of the NCAA West Regional on Sunday. 
The Aggies made 16 consecu­tive free throws, eight by Chris 

Hickman, to end the game after Cliff 
Reed missed a pair which could have broken a tie with 3:20 left. 
A f t e r Benjamin's 3­pointer tied it at 65, Sam Crawford made two free throws to give New Mexico State a 67-65 lead with 2:50 remammg 
· .

The Agg1es (25-7), there­
UCLA . . T M The ObMtVar/Marguerite Schropp 
J~nl~r racy _urray (shown here vs. NO) scored 10 straight first-half points to lead the Brurns Into the th1rd round of the NCAA tournament 
gion's No. 12 seed, won their eighth straight despite missing many layups in the first half. They will return to their homes­tate for the regional semifinals in Albuquerque. 
The Ragin' Cajuns, the 13th seed, finished 21-11 after going 
· 

without a field goal in the fmal for the Cajuns.6 1/2 minutes. There were eight lead Reed led all scorers with 21 changes in the first half, but the 
points, Hickman had 18, and Cajuns stabilized things after Crawford had 14 and 10 assists. taking a 19-18 edge with 9:34 to go, and it took a Crawford­
Todd Hill, Marcus Stokes and led rally to cut the margin to Michael Allen scored 15 each 41-38 at halftime. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 

Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NEED EXTRA CASH !!! CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED "JUNIORS, JUNIORS: ADOPTION: PROFESSIONAL ...Losr·· 271-2001 89 Mercedes ...................... $200 PREPARING FOR AN EFFECTIVE COUPLE, HAPPILY MARRIED, NOTICES glasses with Local Card & Gift Shop 86 vw....................................$50 JOB SEARCH" TONIGHT FINANCIALLY SECURE, STRONG metalic frame Looking for Student Interested in 87 Mercedes ...................... $100 6:30P.M. IN 127 NIEUWLAND BASIC VALUES, EAGER TO Part Time Work. 65 Mustang .......................... $50 SCIENCE HALL. PAUL ADOPT AND WELCOME A BABY REWARD! (Freshman Preferred) Choose from thousands starting REYNOLDS, CAREER AND INTO A LOVING CIRCLE OF TYPING AVAILABLE 
call Joe at 1208 271-2001 $25. PLACEMENT SERVICES. ALL FAMILY AIIID FRIENDS AND 287-4082. Call Britton at Britton's Balloons and FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals WELCOME. PROVIDE MANY OF LIFE'S Gifts (next to Tracks) Details 801-379-2929 Copyright ADVANTAGES. EXPENSES PAID. Typing 
Found 271-2001 #IN11KJC "JUNIORS, JUNIORS: JUDITH AND JESSE 1-800-933­
Pickup & Delivery mini 35mm camera 277-7406 
Was found just before 

CHRISTMAS break. FOR ONLY $1499 SPHINX TOURS ANNOUNCES A 15 DAYS NILE 
call Joe 1208 CRUISE INCLUDING AIRFARE, ON BOARD ONE OF OUR LUXURY FLOATING FIVE STAR HOTELS SAILING BETWEEN LOST: Navy blue ID CASE at 
CAIRO AND ASWAN. ALL MEALS Lafayette Square on 3/17. Many INCLUDED FROM OUR needed cards inside. If found, EXQUISITE CUISINE, PLUS 
please call x2722. SWIMMING POOL, BAR AND DISCO. VISITS TO 15 CITIES TO SEE THE PHARAONIC ..LOST.. WONDERS. CALL 800-233-4978. 
a green jacket w/ a 
tan/brown collar 
lost at turtle creek on 

If anyone recorded the Lou Holtz presentation on March 19@ 7pm, I would like a copy of it. Contact me at the Observer 239-6900. Thank 
u. 

FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
FOR RENT "ONLY $125 PER PERSON .... 259-7801 OR 255-5852" 
MAC+ with 2 DRIVES and HARD DRIVE with tons of SOFTWARE. asking $900 Chris2779442 
Pioneer receiver & tape deck for sale x2322 
CD PLAYER-w/ remote, exc. condition. Best offer, x2385 


TICKETS 
2 tixs for U2-Detroit-Friday Best offer. Eta 2270 
PREPARING FOR AN EFFECTIVE JOB SEARCH" TONIGHT 6:30P.M., 127 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. PAUL REYNOLDS, CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. ALL WELCOME. 
Hey BP 1111 VOTE LYNN and LISA Friedewald Ramos for Co-Pres Monday 23 
THOSE LONG GREEN BEADS WERE WORTH IT. DO YOU STILL HAVE THE BLUE ONES I GAVE 
3499. Garth Brooks is a GOD! 
Heading for EUROPE this summer? Jet there anytime for $169 from the East Coast, $229 from the Midwest (when available) with AIRHITCHI (Reported in Let's Go I & NY Times.) For details: AIRHITCH(r) 212-864-2000. 
"JUNIORS, JUNIORS: PREPARING FOR AN EFFECTIVE JOB SEARCH" TONIGHT 6:30P.M., 127 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. PAUL 

I 
st. Patty's day YOU IN FRONT OF PAT REYNOLDS, CAREER AND 

LOST/FOUND 
call mike X4183 3 Bedroom U2 TIX FOR SALE O'BRIEN'S? I KNOW, THIS IS PLACEMENT SERVICES. ALL 
Walk to Campus march 31 show in Chicago CRAZY! WELCOME. $555 Month serious offers only Spalding NBA basketball lost at WANTED 232 3616 call284-3814 and leave name, Fwanh Fwanh Fwanh ..... ADOPTION 
LOST 
ph# and price you'll pay If you think it may be best for your Stepan Courts on Thurs. before baby and for you to consider break on court nearest Stepan 
BE ON T.V. many needed for For Rent Have 1 ,2, or 3 tix to Steve Miller. HABBA adoption, please call us. We are aCenter. Last name is on ball 
commericials. Now hiring all ages. 5Br. 2 bth house (Great seats!) x1684 DABBA responsible, childless couple with For casting info. for next semester SNABBA values and traditions which offer a (Bianco). 
Call (615) 779-7111 Ext. T-1678. newly remodeled, 1 mile child security, 2 loving parents, and from campus. Right behind Lat. PERSONAL Mara Galatas is one fine babe. a warm home. We hope you will Found 
Squ. Security sys. Wash/dryer Ain't I one lucky guy? choose us to be the parents of your Wilson basketball on same court as SUMMER JOBS call 232-8256 baby. Legal and Medical expenses ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS hey nit paid. Please call Bill and Kathy, above. I assume someone took the INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
wrong ball by mistake. I would Good rates. Save Money. Call me
PRESTIGE CHILDRENS" CAMPS COLLEGE PARK CONDOS-12 collect, at 219-322-8187. 
appreciate exchange. for a quote 9:30-6:00, 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEW UNITS -1300 sq. ft.-STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA
289-1993. Office near campus. NEAR LAKE PLACID Ironwood & Bulla -2 B/R -2 Bath -Info on semester, year, graduate, Greenfields Cafe ... now open 
Call Joe @ 2064. CALL 1-800-786-8373 available immediately-call287-summer and internship programs in Monday through Friday from 
"Give them all /Jls. Let life fail 0534 or 271-9268. Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and 7:00 am -2:30 pm 
them."-Keith McP HELP HELPIII I've lost my sole­
$350.00/DAY PROCESSING Melbourne. Programs start at PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL Ideal house for graduate $3520. Call1-800-878-3696. Breakfast served from 7:00 
mate. I've heard that he was "When the revolution comes, the 
YOU. NO EXPERIENCE student with family. 3 bdr am -1 0:30 am.
hanging from a tree outside the first thing to go is that dang NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. 2 bath. One block from NO. Lunch served 11 :00 am -2:00 pm. 
Riley building before break. We jukebox and every copy of "Brown­637 Peashway. $525 month The Lizard King lives on! Down with 
were separated on February 27, Eyed Girl" on this retentive campus" 1992, during a routine trip from the 
Wanted: Female roommate(s) to 234-1714 the Crustaceans! For information, call share apartment for the summer. 239-8577.
CCMB to Rockne. He is a very I, myself, cannot. Students staying for summer school HOUSES FOR RENT, SECURITY Irish Music and Dance 
worn, tan (well, dirty tan) or internships ideal. Call 283-4098 SYSTEMS, FURNISHED, 4-8 Every Tuesday at Club 23 
Birkenstock and holds great value. We are not strongfor information. BEDROOMS, KEGERATORS. 287-SEAMAISIN Training to become a presenter for 
If you can help me -please call 4989. CARE's dorm rape awareness
Brooke at x2665 You should be with us, feeling like Driving to U2 in Chicago? programs is scheduled for March 29 
we do ... LOST: woman's petite green class 
Have room for 2 more?Will Rent one bdrm apartmt close to raft, you are missed. and April 5. The sessions will be pay gas. Call Lori 2980 campus, $250+ util, dep. 288-4919. held in Siegfried's lounge from 
ring. Inscription reads "ACS '93". If "JOBS, TRAVEL, ADVENTURE! found please return to 143 Farley or 200+ listings for over 50,0000 . 
to the athletic dept.: noon-5pm both days. For more info, your time is gonna come call Missy at 283-2926 or Teresa at 
Angie at 4095. positions -national/international.
Now taking aplication for part-time ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO., -led zeppelin 284-5136
Send $4.95 + $1 P&H to 

employment in a for large 4-BR, furnished house. 
FOUND: a silver ring with a black Renaissance Resources, Box 652, Bike Shop. 277-8866. Bike Shop Complete security system; washer It puts the lotion on its skin, or else Happy Birthday Joe Roberts 
middle shaped like a sideways Driggs, 10, 83422 or call 208-354­
exp. required. & dryer; 9-mo. lease. Deposit. 259-it gets the hose again. 
eyeball was found on a doorstep on 2795." Navarre street on St. Patrick's Day, 
7801 or 255-5852. (Stupid.) "How are you today?" "Fine thank you, and yourself... ..
perhaps left by one of the Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT She sings a song and I listen to AAAAAHHHHHH .... AAAAHHHHI" 
unwelcome, rude and offensive Winning Hotel, has rooms tor 
guests. -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. FOR SALE what it says-
Graduation weekend. Located at Free transportation! Room & Board I If you want a friend, feed any animal EILEEN 0 CONNER, Austrian 
288-9421 Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart Over 8,000 openings. No There's so much space, I cut me a goddess. We heard spring has 
(12 miles from South Bend) 

experience necessary. Male or United Limo round trip ticket to piece with some fine wine, come to the Alps. What the Hell, it 
Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 Female. For employment program Chicago. Good for one year. $50 It brought peace to my mind in the snowed all weekend here. We know 
FOUND: PEN OUTSIDE OF deposit per room. Send letter with 
call Student Employment Services ticket for $40. 272-4311 Eggleston Summertime, you miss the wonderful South Bend 
SOUTH DINING HALL ON FRIDAY, deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd., at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597. School. And it rolled! weather. Love Ann-Marie & Nicole 
3/20. CALL 232-2794 & IDENTIFY. Elkhart, IN 46514. 

NOTRE DAME·KANSAS STATE STATS NCAA BOXES TRANSACTIONS 
NOTRE DAME FIGHTING IRISH (15-14) IOWA STATE (21-13) EASTTENNESSEEST.(~-n 
BASEBALLHeiberg 1-4 0-1 2, Eaton 4·8 4-5 12, Michalik 2-5 English 6-14 5-6 16, Story 3·5 2·211, Dennis g. 

American Leag..

0-0 4, Bayless 7-14 15-16 30, Thigpen 10-21 9-9 18 9-10 31, Nblett 3-10 0·0 8, TaHord 1·9 1-2 3,
PLAYER GP AYG FG PCT FGA PCT FT FTA AYG AYG BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Sent Mike Oquist, 32, Pearson 0-1 0·0 0, McCoy 0-0 0-0 0, Bivens 0-Pelphrey 1-3 0-1 2, Silvers 3-6 0-0 7, Palmer 3-6 3·
EAII, LaPhonao 29 35.9 200 .641 4 .500 106 .642 11.6 17.6 Richie Lewis and Arthur Rhodes, pitchers, to their
0 0·0 0, Bergman 1·1 0·0 2, Meyer 2-2 0-1 4, 3 10, Dudley 0-1 0-0 0, Hodge 0-0 0-0 0, Riddick 0·
s-.Daimon 29 34.7 196 .516 29 .403 75 .789 2.7 17.1 minor league camp for reassignment. Bennllll, Elmet' 29 35.8 176 .450 36 .327 92 .676 3.4 16.6 CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Sent Greg Perschke 
Pippen 3-6 6-6 12, Beechum 0-0 0-0 o. Totals 30-0 0-0 0, Brunn 0-0 0-0 0, Totals 29-72 20·24 90. 62 34·3898. MICIIGAN (22-8)
Taylor, Billy 29 30.1 78 ..470 7 ..438 26 .667 2.9 6.5 and Rich Scheid, pitchers; Norllerto Martin. 
KENTUCKY (28-6) Webber 12·15 4·9 30, Jackson 0-2 2·4 2, Howard
Tower, Keith 27 25.1 50 .400 0 .000 21 .568 5.6 4.5 infielder, to Vancouver of the Pacific Coast League. 
Mashburn 9-14 8·14 27, Pelphrey 7·10 2·2 20, 10·18 3-4 23, Rose 6·11 5-719, King 7-11 0-014,
Roes. Jon 28 12.3 40 .533 0 .000 22 .846 2.3 3.6 Sent Johnny Ruffin, pitcher, to Birmingham, of the 
Martinez 2-4 0-0 4, Woods 7·11 4·8 18, Farmer 4-6 Riley 1·3 1-2 3, Talley 0-1 3·5 3, Pelinka 2·2 0-0 6, 
Ruaaell, Malik 26 12.8 19 .475 0 .ooo 9 .529 1.6 1.8 Southam League. Sent Rodney Bolton and Mile
4-4 14, Harrison 0-0 0-0 0, Ford 0-0 0-0 o, Riddicl< Vokuil 0-1 0-0 0, Hunter 0-0 0-0 0, Sater 0-0 2·2 2, 
Cozen, Carl 22 7.2 14 .378 7 .438 2 .333 0.9 1.7 Dunne, p~chen;; Clemente Alvarez, Darrin
1-2 0-0 2. Feldhaus 4·6 0-0 11. Braddy 2-3 1-1 5, Armer 0-0 0-0 0, Bossard 0-1 0-0 0, Totals 38·65 
Boyer, Brooks 29 4.8 11 .407 3 .300 4 .667 0.5 1.0 Campbell and Rogelio Nunez, catchers; Chris 
limberiake 0-0 0-0 0, Brown 1-7 2·2 5. Totals 37-20-33 102. 

Roea, Joe 19 4.6 5 .385 0 .000 0 .000 0.9 0.5 Cron, Joe Hall, Ever Magallanes and Mike 
, 63 21·31106. Halfti~ichigan 54, East Tennessee St. 34. 
J uatk:e, Larrarr 16 3.1 3 .600 0 .000 .500 0.4 0.4 Robertson, infielders; Shawn Jeter and Brad Halftime-Kentuky 57, Iowa St. 49. 3·Polnt 3-Polnt goals-East Tennessee St. 12·31 (Dennis
Tully, Brendan 1 2.0 1 1.000 0 .000 0 .000 0.0 2.0 Komminsk, outllelders, to their minor league camp 
goals-Iowa State 4·16 (Thipen 3-9, Bayless 1·3, 4·6, Story 3-4, Nblett 2·9, Silvers 1·2, Palmer 1·2, 
GHmore, ~hlon 8 4.5 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000 0.3 0.0 for reassignment. Signed Tracy Jones. outifielder. 
Pearson 0-1, Holberg 0-1, Eaton 0-1, Pippert 0-1), English 1·3, Pelphrey 0-1, Dudley 0·1, TaHord 0-3).
Wllama, Jason 3 5.3 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000 0.3 0.0 to a minor league contract. Named Dave Huppert Adamaon. Man 1 4.0 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000 0.0 0.0 bullpen catcher. 
Kentucky 11·22 (Pelphrey 4-5, Feldhaus 3·4, Michigan 6·8 (Webber 2·2, Pelinka 2·2, Rose 2·3, Farmer2-3, Mashburn 1-4, Brown 1·4, Braddy 0-1, Bossard 0-1 ). Fouled out-TaHord.
IRISH 21 713 .501 ae .311 358 .870 34.2 70.0 TEXAS RANGER~tioned Jeff Frye, 
Woods 0-1). Rebounds-Iowa State 36 (Holberg Rebounds-East Tennessee St. 31 (Dennis 8). 
OPPONENT 21 1St .458 153 .382 421 .883 32.0 73.1 infielder, and Dan Pehier, outlielder, to Oklahoma
8), Kentucky 28 (Mashburn 9). Assists-Iowa State Michigan 43 (Webber 9). Assists-East Tennessee City of the American Association. Optioned Donald12 (Michalik, Bayless 4), Kentucl<y 26 (Woods 9). St. 15 (Nblett 5), Michigan 32 (Rose 10). Total Harris, outlielder; Robb Nan, pitcher, and Jose Total fouls-Iowa State 25, Kentucky 29. fouls-East Tennessee St. 24, Michigan 19.
KANSAS STATE WILDCATS (16-13) Oliva. infielder. to Tulsa of the Texas League. Sent
A-13,514. A-13,666. 
Kevin Blankenship and Tom Drees, pitchers; Benji 

MICIIGAN ST. (22-8) SW LOUISIANA (21-11) Gil and Chuck Jacl<son, infielden;; Peter Kuld. 
PLAYER GP AYG FG PCT FGA PCT FT FTA AYG AYG Stephens 5·11 3·3 15, Steigenga 0·4 0·0 0, Hili 7·18 0-0 15, Boudreaux 2-4 0-2 4, Stokes 7-9 Roger Luce, Russ McGinnis and John Russell.
Jonee. Aakla 29 28.8 150 .448 76 .404 69 .812 4.0 15.3 
Peplowski 1·4 0·0 2, Montgomery 3·6 0·0 7, 1-2 15, Mouton 2·3 0-0 6, Starks 6·10 0-0 12, catchers, to their minor league camp for Howard. Wylie 29 25.5 123 .562 1 1.000 78 .703 6.7 11.2 
Respert 9-17 5-6 27, Zulauf 0-1 4·4 4, Miller 1·4 5-Mackyeon 1-3 0-0 2, Allen 5-15 1-1 15, Moore 2·6 reassignment.
Nlci<eraon, Gaylon 29 28.3 111 .395 7 .292 50 .647 . 4.3 9.6 
57, Weshinskey 1·5 0·0 3. Totals 20·52 17·18 65. 0-0 4. Totals 32·68 2·5 73. National League....~ Jad<aon, Vincent (Bo) 29 24.6 107 .450 7 .259 47 .595 3.7 9.2 
CINCINNATI (27-4) NEW MEXICO ST. (25-7) PHILADELPHIA PHILLIE&-Sent Tyler Green Manson, Brian 25 15.0 58 .423 42 .404 25 .735 1.6 7.3 
Nelson 1-1 2·24, Jones 3-7 ll-1315, Blount 6-10 Traylor 4·13 0-0 8, Reed 7·18 7-12 21, Hickman and Darrin Chapin, pitchers, to their minor league Collier, Aaron 23 15.7 43 .453 0 .000 21 .538 4.3 4.7 
2·3 14, Buford 7-11 4-5 21, Van Exel 1·9 4·4 6, 3·6 12·12 18, Crawford 4·12 4-5 14, Benjamin 3·6 camp for reassignment. 
Zeigler, Marcus 24 31.9 29 .337 11 .289 36 .766 1.8 4.4 
Jackson 1·2 0·0 2, Gibson 1·3 1·2 3, Martin 3·7 1·2 2·2 10. Leak 1·2 2-4 4. Thompson 2-4 0·0 4, PIITSBURGH PIRATES-Sent Terry McDaniel, Rettlger, John 27 16.1 34 .472 0 .000 46 .676 3.0 4.2 
7, Scott 2·4 1·2 5. Totals 25-54 23-33 77. Coleman 1·1 0-0 2. Totals 25·62 27·35 81. outlielder, to their minor league camp for Cunningham, Daryl 21 15.1 27 .397 0 .000 24 .522 3.7 3.7 
HaHtime--Cincinnati 42, Michigan State 35. 3· Halftime-SW Louisiana 41, New Mexico State reassignment.
Striddand, Hamihon 12 2.9 2 .222 0 .000 0 .000 0.8 0.3 
Point goals-Michigan St. 8·21 (Respert 4·6, 38. 3-Point goals-SW Louisiana 7-15 (Allen 4·9, ST. LOUIS CARDINALS-Sent DonovanHill, George 0 0.0 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000 0.0 0.0 
Stephens 2·6, Weshinskey 1·3, Montgomery 1·4, Mouton 2·3, Hill1·2, Moore 0·1), New Mexico St. Osborne. Marl< Clark. Fidel Compres. pitchers; Johnooon, Brian 2 2.5 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000 0.0 0.0 
Steigenga 0·2), Cincinnati 4·15 (Buford 3-4, Jones 4-10 (Traylor 0·1, Crawford 2·7, Benjamin 2·2). Stan Royer and Bien Figueroa, Infielders; Chuck WILDCATS 21 748 .431 172 .372 432 .674 37.3 72.5 
1·2, Jackson 0·1, Gibson 0·1. Van Exel 0·7). Rebounds--SW Louisiana 38 (Stokes 10), New Carr. outfielder; Marc Ronan and Don Prybylinski, OPPONENT 29 786 .448 152 .344 406 .678 34.7 73.4 
Rebounds-Michigan St. 28 (Stephens 6), Mexico St. 41 (Reed 11). Assists-SW Louisiana catchers, to their minor league camp for Cincinnati 39 (Jones, Blount 7). Assists-Michigan 18 (Allen 6), New Mexico St. 18 (Crawford 1 0). reassignment. Sl 15 (Montgomery 9), Cincinnati 15 (Van Exel 5). Total fouls-SW Louisiana 24, New Mexico St. 8.
NIT ROUNDUP 
Total fouls-Michigan St. 22, Cincinnati 18. A-NA. BASKETBALL 
A-13,007. National Baeketbell Association
Rret Round Second Roood SYRACUSE (22-10) 
Wec~Medey, Much 18 Mondlly, Mllrch 23 LOUISVILLE (19-11) Johnson 9·18 8·1 0 26, Hopkins 3-4 2·2 8, McRae BOSTON CELTIC&-Activated Sherman Ten.-aee 71, Alabama-Birmingham 68 Texas Christian (23-10) a1 Purdue (17·14), Minor 4·7 3-4 11, Morton 2·6 0·0 4, Holden 3·9 4-7·12 0-0 14, Autry 0·11 1·2 1, Moten 7·16 4·4 19, Douglas, guard, from the injured list. Waived Notre o....63, W..Mm Michigan 56 7:30p.m. 4 10, LeGree 2-7 1-2 5, Sullivan 3-10 4-4 11. Smith Edwards 1·4 0-0 3, Siock 0·0 0·0 0, McCorl<le 0·0 Rickey Green, guard. VIrginia 83, VIRanova 80 Kiln-Stew (16-13) at Notre D•une (15-14), 3-6 1-4 7, Hopgood 1-1 0-02, Brewer 5-9 0·0 13, 0-0 0. Totals 27·65 15-18 71. CLEVELAND CAVALIERS-Signed Mike Kansas State 85, Western Kentucky 74 7:30pm. Wingfield 0-0 0-0 0, Webb 0-1 2-2 2, Stone 1·2 2·2 MASSACHUSETIS (30-4) Sanden;, forward, to a second 10-day contract. Pittsburgh 67, Penn State 65 Tennessee (19-14) a1 Virginia (16-13), 7:30p.m. 4, Mclendon 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 24·58 17·22 69. Barllee 3-9 2·2 8, Herndon 3·8 1·3 7, H.Williams DALLAS MAVERICKS-Signed Tom Garrock. UCLA (27-4) guard, to a 1 0-day contract. 
Washington State 72, Mln.-ota 70 Manhattan (24-8) at Rutgers (16·14), 7:30p.m. 6-18 5-6 18, Brown 4·13 0·0 10, McCoy 8·16 8-10 
Thllr8dooy, March 1 8 Florida (17·12) at Pittsburgh (18·15), 8 p.m Murray 8·15 9-13 26, Maclean 6-11 11-11 23. 24, Roe 4·5 2-4 10, Malloy 0-0 0·0 0, M.Wiiiiams 0· FOOTBALL Manhanan 67, Wloconsin-Green Bay 65 Washington State (22·10) at New Mexico (19-12), Butler 4-7 0-0 9, Edney 1-4 3-4 5, Madkins 3-7 9·11 1 0·0 0, K.Robinson 0-0 0·0 0. Totals 28·70 16·25 World Leag.. of American Football Purdue 82, Butler 58 9:35p.m. 16. Tarver 1-1 2-2 4, O'Bannon 0·0 0·0 0, Martin 0-77. BIRMINGHAM FIRE-Signed Simmie Carter, Florida 66, Richmond 52 T~y,MIIrch24 2 2·2 2, Zidek 0-0 0·0 0, Elkind 0-0 0-0 0. Totals Halftime-Syracuse 32, Massachusetts 30. 3-comerllack. Boston College 78, Southern Illinois 69 Rhode Island (21·9) at Boston College(17-13), 23-4 7 36-43 85. Point goals-Syracuse 2·15 (Moten 1-4, Edwards FRANKFURT GALAXY-Signed Jason Johnson, Rhode Island 68. Vanderllih 63 8p.m. Halftime-UCLA 32, Louisville 25. 3-Point 1-4, Hopkins 0-1, Autry 0·3, Johnson 0·3), wide receiver. Texas Chrlotlan 73, Long Beach State 61 Utah (21·10) at Arizona State (19-13), 10 p.m. goals-Louisville 4·16 (Brewer 3-6, Sullivan 1-6, Massachusetts 3·10 (Brown 2·7, H.Wiiliams 1·1, SAN ANTONIO RIDERS-Activated Mike Lhah 72, Ball State 57 Third Round LeGree 0·1, Stone 0-1, Morton 0·2), UCLA 3-11 Barllee 0·2). Rebounds-Syracuse 37 (Johnson, Johnson. quarterback. New Mexico 90, Louisiana Tech 84 Wedneaday, March 25 (Butler 1·2, Murray 1·3, Madkins 1·5, Edney 0-1 ). Autry 1 0), Massachusetts 46 (H.Wiiiiams 15). HOCKEY Arizona St. 71, UC Santa Barbara 65 TBA, at campus shes Rebounds-Louisville 29 (Minor 11), UCLA 37 Assists-Syracuse 14 (Autry 10), Massachusetts National Hockey League Friday, U.rch 20 ThU'adey, March 28 (Maclean 10). Assists--louisville 12 (Sullivan 6), 22 (Brown 9). Total fouls-Syracuse 20, CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS-Signed Dean Rutgers 73, James Madloon 69 TBA, at campus shes UCLA 18 (Madkins 6). Total fouls-Louisville 29, Massachusetts 16. A-13,514. McAmmond, center, to a multiyear contract. 
UCLA20. A-10,125. 

~------.._...._..------------------,._.----,
' I Win Free Books 
I ~ 1When You Travel with 
Little Professor 

MARCH 22-27, 1992 
Bring us a photo of yourself
TUBSDAY-8 p.m., Archbishop Romero Lecture Series­"The Pastoral Role of the Catholic Church in 
(with the Little Professor logo) while on 
Latin America: A Comparison -16th Century
NOTRE WtE 

vacation and we'll give you a free gift
Spain and 20th Century United States," with 
Edward T. Brett, sponsored by the Kellogg 
certificate. The farther away you travel,
Institute and the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, at the Center for Social 
the greater the value of the certificate. 
Concerns (C.S.C.) 
WEDNBSDAY-\2:15 p.m., "Peace Breaks Out: An Eyewitness Reoort of the First Week of Ceasefire in El Slavador", slide presentation and discussion with Steve Moriarty, at the C.S.C. 
7 p.m.-la.m., "Give Peace a Dance," a benefit concert for local agencies -Safe Station Shelter and Sex Offense Services (SOS), featuring campus bands: Victoria's Real Secret, DissFunktion, Jasmine Groove, and Seamaisin, as well as -from Chicago, The Drovers; open only to ND/SMC students, at Stepan Center 
THURSDAY-S p.m. "What Can Students Do For Peace and Justice at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's?" -a panel discussion featuring representatives from Women United for justice and Peace, Pax Christi, Amnesty International ND, Students for Environmental Action, and Womens Alliance (SMC), at the C.S.C. 
FRIDAY-4 p.m., Discussion about The Impact of the Press on the Gulf War, Speaker: jack Powers (South 
®BOTOKPCO£NTiR~ 
Bend Tribune), library Auditorium 
We help you find books you'll love. 
Ironwood Plaza North • State Road 23 at Ironwood
Sponsored by WORLD PEACE ACTION GROUP 
South Bend • 277-4488 • Mon-Sat: 10:00-9:00 • Sun 10:00-5:00 If you have any questions, please call Marcie Poorman (271-8571) A member of the Little Prof~r family of loc:ally-owncd booutorcs. 



~---~--­
-~------------~---------------~---------------------..,
r-­
Monday, March 23, 1992 
'Fab Five' star too much for upstart Bucs 
ATLANTA (AP) -Freshman Chris Webber had a season­high 30 points and No. 15 Michigan frustrated East Tennessee State inside and out­side Sunday, ending the Buccaneers' hopes for a second straight NCAA tournament upset with a 102-90 victory. 
The sixth-seeded Wolverines (22-8) moved into Friday's Southeast Region semifinals in Lexington, Ky., against Oklahoma State, an 87-71 win­ner over Tulane. 
The 14th-seeded Buccaneers, with just one regular over 6­foot-6, overcame their lack of size with 13-of-25 shooting from 3-point range in Friday's first-round victory over No. 10 Arizona. 
But the Wolverines were able to negate East Tennessee State's quickness and perimeter shooting with dominating inside play and a hustling defense that limited the Buccaneers' 3-point effectiveness. 
The only exception was early in the second half, when East Tennessee State hit six of its first seven 3-point attempts to cut a 20-point halftime deficit to eight with 13:05 left. 
But the Buccaneers missed their next six 3-point tries, al­lowing Michigan to score 11 of the next 13 points. East Tennessee State got no closer than 10 after that. 

The Observer page 17 
UTEP pulls biggest shocker so far with win over Kansas 

DAYTON, Ohio (AP)-Ralph Davis hit two free throws and two rebound baskets late in the game and Texas-El Paso withstood a rally by top-seeded Kansas to stun the Jayhawks 66-60 Sunday in the second round of the NCAA Midwest Regional. 
Kansas (27 -5) is the first top seed to lose prior to the regional semifinals since Oklahoma was beaten by North Carolina in the second round of the 1990 tournament. 
It was the biggest tournament victory for ninth-seeded UTEP (27 -6) since the school, known then as Texas Western, beat Kentuck~ for the national championship in 1966. 
Kansas' Richard Scott scored on a rebound basket with 16.3 seconds remaining to cut UTEP's lead to 62-60. But UTEP's Johnny Melvin made two free throws after being fouled by Scott on the inbounds pass, Kansas then turned the ball over and Davis hit a 15­footer as time expired for the final basket. 

Kansas came back from a Freshman Chris Webber {shown here vs. ND) scored a career-high 30 four-point deficit to pull even at points as Michigan downed East Tennessee State, 102-90. 47 on Alonzo Jamison's two free throws with 5:31 
The Observer/John Rock 

The loss ended a nine-game crushed Tulane 87-71 Sunday remaining.
winning streak for East in the second round of the 
Davis made two free throwsTennessee State (24-7), which Southeast Regional. 

31 seconds later to give UTEP a was trying to become the first The Cowboys (28-7) made 28 

two-point advantage on the

Southern Conference team to of 35 shots to break the previ­nation's second-ranked team.
win two NCAA tournament ous mark of 79 percent set by After Kansas failed to score,games since Virginia Military North Carolina in 1988. 
UTEP's Prince Stewart misfiredInstitute went to the East Tulane, in the NCAA tourna­on a 3-pointer but Davis put itRegion finals in 1976. ment for the first time in school back in for a 51-4 7 lead withGreg Dennis, East Tennessee history, fell to 22-9, in only their 4:19togo.

State's all-time leading scorer, third season since disbanding 
Stewart came back with a

had a career-best 31 in his final basketball for four years steal and missed a layup, but 
game. because of a point-shaving 
scandal. 
Oklahoma St. 87, Tulane 71 
NIT

ATLANTA-Byron Houston Tulane's pressing defense, and Corey Williams each scored sparked by reserves known as continued from page 24 27 points and Oklahoma State the Posse, gave the Cowboys shot a NCAA tournament-some trouble, but it didn't mat-commented. "It is good to see record 80 percent from the field ter because of OSU's shooting people other than Bennett, 
~~~:::~=======...!as~t_!!h!e~l~l~t:!;h~-!:,ra:!,n2,k~e~d~C~o~w~b2;o2;y~s~.!t!!ou~c~h!;..___________, Sweet and Ellis scoring for us." 
WOULD YOU BE INTERESTED IN BECOMING AN 
ASSISTANT TO THE NOTRE DAME JUDICIAL COUNCIL? 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE: ELECTIONS Assistant LEGAL CONCERNS Assistant 
TRAINING Assistant ETHICS COMMITTEE Assistant each of whom will be eligible for the position of Judicial Council President for the Academic Year 1993-1994. ELIGIBILITY: 
Any current Freshman, Sophmore, or Junior of both academic and disciplinary good standing who is interested in working with Student Government and the Administration. 
DUE DATE: 
Pick up an application at the Student Government Office in LaFortune and return it to the Student Government Secretary by FRIDAY, MARCH 27,1992. 
Second-round NIT action also continues on other campuses around the country tonight and tomorrow. 
There are five other games on tap for tonight-TCU (23-10) at Purdue (17-14), Florida (17-12) at Pittsburgh (18-15). Tennessee (19-14) at Virginia (16-13), Washington State (22­
10) at New Mexico (19-12) and Davis was there again for the putback to give UTEP a six­point lead. UTEP's Eddie Rivera then hit an 18-footer to give the Miners a 55-47 cushion. 

But Jamison scored on a layup, and after Kansas' Rex Walters came up with a midcourt steal, Kansas' Steve Woodberry hit a 3-pointer from the top of the key to cut UTEP's lead to 55-52. 
Cincinnati 77, Michigan St. 65 

DAYTON, Ohio -Anthony Buford scored 21 points and Cincinnati, which blew big leads in losses to Michigan State the last two years, beat the Spartans 77-65 Sunday in the second round of the NCAA Midwest Regional. 
Herb Jones added 15 points and Corie Blount 14, all in the first half, for the No. 12 Bearcats (27 -4), regular-season and tournament champions in the Great Midwest Conference. 
Shawn Respert led Michigan State (22-8) with 27 points and Dwayne Stephens added 15. 
The Bearcats built a 17 -point lead in the first half before Michigan State came back to trail 42-35 at the half and by four twice in the second half. But each time, Cincinnati responded. 
After the Spartans pulled to 54-50 on a three-point play by Anthony Miller with 11:46 left, the Bearcats countered with a driving basket by Erik Martin, a Jones layup off a steal and Buford's jumper for a 60-50 lead. 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 

A workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage. 
SUNDAY. MARCH 29. 1992 
12:30 -5:00 
-

TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: -Stages of relationships -Expectations for the future -Steps in making healthy decisions 
THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS WORKSHOP, BUT•.. PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED BY MARCH 25. 
Applications can be picked up at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse. Call 239-5242 for more information 
Manhattan (24-8) at Rutgers (16-14), who advanced over James Madison, 73-69, on Friday night. 
The second-round concludes on Tuesday when Rhode Island (21-9) travels to Boston College (17-13) and Utah (21-10) visits Arizona State (19-13)). 
The third-round matchups, which will be announced late tonight, will be held at campus sites on Wednesday and Thursday. 
The semifinals and fmals will take place next Monday and Wednesday at Madison Square Garden. 

! 
I 
" 
' 
-
~TUDE NT ~TUDE NT 
GOVfRNMfNl G 0 Vf R N M f N I 







Student Government 
announces the first annual 
Frank O'Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award 
This award will be presented to a faculty member who exhibits the ideals of Frank O'Malley through emphasis on and excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Undergraduate students w-ho are interested in w-orking W'ith the selection co~n~nittee are asked to contact the Student Gover11111ent Office at 239·7668 by 
., Wednesday, March 25 
•

~TUDENT ~TUDE NT 
GOYfRNMfNl GOYfRNMfNl 

Monday, March 23, 1992 The Observer 
page 19 

Men's tennis posts easy win over Buckeyes 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
victory over Koves and Mazza, Associate Sports Editor while 34th-ranked Zurcher and 
Forsyth overcame a second-set 

The Notre Dame men's tennis letdown to dispose of Katzer and team reasserted itself Saturday as Dan Cibula 6-3, 3-6, 6-1. one of the nation's top five Notre Dame's Mark Schmidt, the programs with a 7-2 demolition of usual Irish entry at number-five Ohio State at the Eck Tennis singles, was unable to play Pavilion. Saturday due to flu-like 
The fifth-ranked Irish (13-2), symptoms. But the junior should coming ofT of a loss to a vengeful be back in action this weekend North Carolina team, showed no when the Irish face a stellar field mercy in delivering the Buckeyes at the Blue-Gray National Classic five straight-set losses. in Montgomery, Ala. 
Third-ranked singles star David Irish coach Bob Bayliss has DiLucia led the Irish charge with a called the Blue-Gray one of the top 6-2, 6-4 victory over 40th-ranked three regular-season tournaments Gabor Koves. in the nation. 
Notre Dame's other ranked The Irish have impressed in the player, Andy Zurcher, was also a other two tournaments, posting a straight-set victor. The 32nd-third-place. showing at the ranked Zurcher, playing number-National Team Indoor two singles, beat Ohio State's Championships, while winning the Jason Katzer 6-2, 6-4. H.E.B. Collegiate Classic. 
Chuck Coleman had some dif-Defending Big Ten champion ficulty getting on track in his Ohio State marked another victim three-set win over Sam Sebastian, in Notre Dame's quest for an losing the first stanza on a unblemished record in the tiebreaker. But Coleman came The Observer/John Rock Midwest region. The Irish have back strong, giving up only one Junior Will Forsyth stoops for a backhand return in his straight-set won the region the past two years, game in the final two sets to win victory Saturday over Ohio State's Vito Mazza. but have set an undefeated 
6-7, 6-1, 6-0. Number-five singles play saw the regional record atop their agenda 
"I wasn't mentally ready to play," said Buckeyes' Eric Faro defeating Ron Rosas 6-for the spring 1992 season. Coleman, who moved up to third singles 4, 6-3 in Ohio State's only singles victory. from his usual spot at number four. "But Faro played a part in the the Buckeyes' sole "The undefeated regional record is a big after I lost the first set, I got my feet moving doubles win as well, teaming with goal for us," said Coleman. "Ohio State is and put it together." Sebastian to defeat North and Chris one of the better teams in the region." 
At fourth singles,Will Forsyth won two Wojtalik in three sets, 7-6, 2-6, 6-2. Against Ohio State, the Irish won their tough sets from Ohio State's Vito Mazza, In other doubles action, Notre Dame's two first match as a top-five team. Days after while number-six singles player Tommy ranked teams posted impressive victories being notified of their new ranking, Notre North used his power game to down John over the Buckeyes. The 13th-ranked duo of Dame lost a tough 5-4 dual-match decision Brumbaugh 6-3, 7-6. Coleman and DiLucia fought for a 7-5, 6-4 to North Carolina. 
Kentucky, UMass advance to Sweet 16 
WORCESTER, Mass. (AP) -next six points, but Thigpen got Massachusetts advanced to the Jamal Mashburn scored 27 14 of Iowa State's next 20 East Regional semifmals with a points and sixth-ranked points. Thigpen made the score 77-71 victory over Syracuse. Kentucky fought ofT a late Iowa 98-94 on his two free throws The 17th-ranked Minutemen State rally to reach the final 16 with 54 seconds left. (30-4) were seeded third and of the NCAA tournament with a Kentucky's Richie Farmer and had to defend that position until 106-98 victory Sunday. Bayless then traded two foul the victory over No. 21 
Led by Justus Thigpen, the shots each before Farmer hit Syracuse, which was seeded Cyclones cut an 88-76 deficit two more, making the score sixth. with 6:52 left to 93-90 on two 102-96 with 34 seconds to go. Massachusetts, the Atlantic-
Jamal Mashburn 

free throws by Brad Pippett Pippett's two free throws cut 1 0 champions and winners of yond the line. His shot, whichwith 3:18 to go. But Iowa State the lead to four points with 24 14 straight, will meet No. 6 
gave Massachusetts a 75-71

(21-13) came no closer. seconds left. Kentucky (28-6) on Thursday lead, was his second 3-pointerThe second-seeded Wildcats, But Sean Woods hit a foul night in Philadelphia. The of the season and just his sixthbanned from the NCAA tour­shot one second later, John Wildcats beat Iowa State 106­attempt from beyond 19 feet, 9nament the past two years Pelphrey added two with 16 98 in the second round. 
inches.

while on probation, play in the seconds left and Woods fmished Williams, who had struggled 
Syracuse came down and

regional semifinals Thursday in the scoring with a free throw all game with his shooting, was 
freshman Lawrence Moten

Philadelphia. with 6.9 second to play. forced into the role of hero after threw up an air ball from 3­
Kentucky (28-6) led all the a controversial out of bounds 
point range with 18 seconds

way, but had little chance to Massachusetts 77, call gave Massachusetts the ball left. Massachusetts reboundedrelax as Thigpen had 32 points Syracuse 71, OT with 35 seconds to play -and and the Orangemen didn't fouland Ron Bayless 30, both ca­WORCESTER, Mass.-Harper just six on the shot clock. 
until there were 4.8 secondsreer highs, for the lOth-seeded Williams made a desperation 3-The Minutemen inbounded left.

Cyclones. pointer as the shot clock ran and Williams, a 6-foot-7 junior Jim McCoy then made bothAfter the Wildcats took an 86-out with 30 seconds left in center, was left with no option free throws to clinch the victory. 
74 lead, Mashburn got their overtime Sunday, and except the ~hpt from just be-


AT THE RONKIN EDUCATIONAL GROUP OUR CLASS SIZES ARE LIMITED TO NO MORE THAN 10 STUDENTS PER CLASS. SIGN UP NOW FOR PREPARATION COURSE FOR SUMMER ISAT 
This example of personalized attention 1S JUSt. one of the reasons our classes are filling up fast. Call now to reserve a seat. 
• 
40 Hours Of Live Instruction 


• 
Live Thtorial Available At No Extra Charge 

• 
National 800 Telephone Helpline 




Z73-18bft 
• 6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams 
U.7 US 31 NORTH 

• Constantly Updated Materials Across from Knights Inn Suite Z10 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
Bennett out of consideration for Badgers' job 

MADISON, Wis. (AP) Wisconsin-Green Bay coach Dick Bennett won't replace Steve Yoder as head coach of the Wisconsin Badgers, athletic director Pat Richter said after a two-hour interview with Bennett Sunday. 
Richter said Bennett agreed that the time is not right for Bennett to make the change. 
"At another point in time it might be," Richter said. "Right now it isn't. We were very can­did with each other, and we came to that conclusion be­tween ourselves." 
Richter said he was im­pressed with Bennett, describ­ing him as "an outstanding person and a fme coach." 
''I'd never met him before, but I could tell why he is suc­cessful," Richter said. "It's just that our situation is not right for Dick Bennett." 
Bennett said he was some­what saddened he won't have a shot at the job. 
"It's very hard for me to admit that it is best that they move in the direction they're moving, and that I not be a part of it," he said. "I really think that is the proper direction .... 
"But it's not without sadness, because of my respect for that position." 
Richter declined to say who is the top candidate to replace Yoder, who resigned, effective April 1, because Richter de­clined to extend his contract beyond next season. Yoder had only one winning season in 10 years at Wisconsin. 
Bennett's team finished the regular season with a 25-4 record but lost a first-round game in the National Invitation Tournament. The Phoenix won a spot in the NCAA tournament last year. 
Former New York Knicks coach Stu Jackson is believed to be the top candidate for the Wisconsin job. 
"I think he's a strong candi­date, a viable candidate," Richter said. ''I'm not going to say he's the only candidate, but he does possess many of the characteristics we're looking for." 
The posting period for the job ends at the close of business Monday. Richter said he did not plan to make an offer to anyone Monday. 
PLEASE SUPPORT THE UNITED WAY 


-
Call For A Free 1992 Student Travel catalog! 

-----~----~--~---~ 
page 20 The Observer Monday, March 23, 1992 

Softball finishes second at Sycamore Classic 

The Observer/John Rock Freshman Sara Hayes slugged her second home run of the season Saturday, but it wasn't enough as the Irish lost to Ball State, 4-3. 
ByJIMVOGL Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame softball team fell to Ball State, 4-3, in nine innings in the championship round of the Sycamore Classic on Saturday. The Irish took second place to the Cardinals, who also beat the Irish on Friday. 
While Notre Dame won just two of five games in the tour­nament, they showed progress. In the first game, Ball State threw a no-hitter at the Irish. 
"She kept on throwing rise­balls and we were going right after them," explained Irish as­sistant coach Liz Miller. 
But in the final game, Notre Dame came out more disci­plined and determined not to swing at risers out of the strike zone. The new hitting strategy paid off quickly. 
In the first inning, freshman Sara Hayes hit her second homer of the season to put the Irish ahead. The team went all last year without a round-trip­per. 
"Right now, Sara is probably the biggest free-swinger for us," said Miller of Hayes, whose power-hitting display signalled a move from leadoff to the third spot in the Irish lineup . 
Miller is also impressed with Hayes' behavior at the plate: "She steps up with very little pressure and shows discipline." 
Still, the Irish offense let up and let the Cardinals back in the game in the seventh. 
Staci Alford, who replaced 

Sun Devils sweep three games from Irish 
Special to the Observer 2 win on Sunday. Price ran into some trouble on 
In the opening game of the the mound in the second game 
The Notre Dame baseball series, junior Pat Leahy, junior while junior Chris Michalak and team lost a three-game series to Dave Sinnes, and freshman freshmen Tim Krauss and Dan Arizona State over the week­Craig Allen combined their Adams were on the losing end end. The Sun Devils swept the pitching talents in the game, of the mound in the final game. Irish with a 9-5 win on Friday, a but came up short. Junior AI Complete results will be in the 10-5 win on Saturday, and a 16-Walania and sophomore Tom Observer on Tuesday. 
Flyers remain in playoff hunt with win over Detroit 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Steve Duchesne scored a power-play goal with 4:12 remaining for Philadelphia to lift the Flyers to a 4-3 victory over Detroit. 
The Flyers had a 5-on-3 ad­vantage when Duchesne drove down the slot and beat goal­tender Tim Cheveldae. 
Fifth-place Philadelphia has won its last five games and has just two losses in its last 23 at home (15-2-6). The Red Wings are 3-6-2 in their last 11 games. 
Penguins 2, Whalers 2 

HARTFORD, Conn.-Mario Lemieux scored a short-handed 
!RECYCLE ME I 
goal on a breakaway as Pittsburgh moved into a tie for third place in the Patrick Division. 
The Penguins are 8-2-1 their last 11 and have caught up with New Jersey, which has gone 0­6-2. It was the second straight night the Whalers failed to hold a two-goal lead and the ninth time this season. 
Kevin Stevens scored his 49th goal to start Pittsburgh's two­goal second period. 

'rf51.-, _r. ,@';::;\__ -~ ,
·2__~uft1e •..,creeK 
Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 
2/10 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
272-8124 

-The Department of Music Spring Semester 1992 Lecture Series 
Phillip Gossett 
University ofChicago presents 
~ssini at rrwo :Jlundred: Some 'Bicentennial ~jfections 
TUESDAY, MARCH 24 
8:00P.M. 
115 Crowley Hall of Music 
The lecture is free and open to the public 
Ball State takes title as Irish can't hold two-run lead in 7th 
starter Carrie Miller, allowed a two-RBI single that dribbled up the middle to send the game into extra innings. The Cardinals then prevailed with a run in the ninth off Alford (4-1). 
"We had every opportunity to win the game, but we were hesitant," said Miller. "When you make mistakes against a good team, it's bound to hurt you." 
In Notre Dame's second game, Indiana State shut the Irish offense down again, scoring a 5-0 victory. Alford suffered a sprained ankle in warmups and had to leave after the second inning. 
The Irish bats finally showed up later that day against Wisconsin-Green Bay, leading them to a 3-2 win. 
"Our offense started off slow this weekend. We hit the ball hard but not in the holes," said Miller, who credited shortstop Ruth Kmak for getting the team going with a key triple in the game. Second baseman Christy Connoyer and first baseman Stephanie Pinter also contributed clutch hits. 
On Saturday, senior Melissa Linn shut down the Phoenix, 2­1, evening her record at 5-5 on the season. 
"It was probably the best game she's pitched this year," said Miller, who has been working with the pitchers on altering their pitch selection. "In the past, Missy relied on her riser. But with the final batter, she changed speeds for a strikeout." 
Late charge by Heat burns Nets, 107-100 

MIAMI (AP) -Grant Long scored eight of his season­high 29 points in the final 
2:02 and Miami scored 11 consecutive points late in the game to beat New Jersey 107-100. 
Derrick Coleman, who scored 32 points for the Nets, hit three throws during a 7-0 run that gave them a 98-93 lead with 3:04 left. 
The Heat, who moved past Milwaukee and New Jersey in the race for the eighth and final playoff spot in the NBA's Eastern Conference, then scored the next 11 points for a 104-98 lead with 1:01 remaining. 
SuperSonics 113, Mavericks 1 05 

DALLAS -Eddie Johnson scored 31 points and Seattle came back from a 26-point deficit to hand Dallas its 13th consecutive defeat. 
Rolando Blackman scored 30 points for the Mavericks, who tied a club-record with 46 first-quarter points, but couldn't hold a 53-27 lead with 9:43 left in the second quarter. It was the biggest lead Dallas has ever blown, surpassing a 23-point advantage the Mavericks al­lowed Denver to overcome in 1985. 
Dallas hasn't won since Feb. 28 in running up its longest losing streak of the season. The team record, set in 1981, is 15 consecutive losses. 


The Observer 
is now accepting application for the following position: 
Accent Copy Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statemen to Jahnelle Harrigan by by 5 p.m. on Friday, March 27. Call Jahnelle Harrigan at 239-5303 for more information. 

Lottery for Bulls Tickets in Senior Class Office 23rd 3-Spm, 24th 2-4pm, 25th 3-Spm 
Each winning number can buy 2 tickets@ $20 each for the April 13th game vs. Atlanta Hawks 
Winners will be announced March 30. Umit 4 IDs per person. 


Monday, March 23, 1992 The Observer 
page 21 


Tournament fmals the following club from Chicago, visits the confident about their chancesweekend. 
Stepan Fields next Saturday, against any opponent. 
with the A-game beginning at "We got a victory against a 
However, the Irish face an­noon. quality Midwest team and we other test before they can start didn't feel we played our best," thinking about the tournament. After Saturday's win over Pisani added, "so we are feeling The South Side Irish, a men's Purdue, however, the Irish are optimistic." 
dressed like Johnny Cash, with whole first period and (Neal) a forward gotten up like Bo didn't have to work hard." Diddley? They need to dress in Neal labored through the


Wrestling

black. bout, spending all three time­
continued from page 24

We need large frightening outs, and barely held off a athletes with killin' and a 27-0 season. Terkay pinned Weaver take-down in the clos­maimin' on their minds. We Weaver with 1:44 to go in the ing seconds. "If Chuck could need large frightening fans with first period, the first of his four have tied it, (Neal) would have thoughts of death and de­straight first-round pins in the never made it in overtime," said struction. tournament. Last year's runner­McCann. 
We need black. Then maybe up Curt Angle finally stopped McGrew, a 177-pound 
we can scare the bigwigs into Terkay's rampage in the final sophomore, started off his sec­facing the real issues. match to finish number one. ond NCAA Championship ap­pearance with a bang, scoring a 
Next, Weaver beat Missouri's 

pin just 18 seconds into the first Jeremy Lay, 3-0, but fell behind 
period. He then beat 
early to Lorenzo Neal and lost Tennessee's Brett Gustafson, 4­
5-4. McCann said of Neal, 3. 

Fresno State's starting fullback, But Nebraska's Corey Olson 
IF YOU 

SMOKE, 
"He came out late (in the turned the tables on McGrew, 
season) because he was on the pinning him midway through­

DO IT 
football team, so he's not in the 

out the first period. The loss shape Chuck's in." deflated McGrew in his last match against San Diego State's With this in mind, McCann Quincy Clark. "Jay was sloppy.knew Weaver had to jump him He was not mentally into the 
WHILE YOU 

CAN! 

early. But, explained McCann, match and did things he 
"Chuck was ridden out the normally doesn't do," said 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
It was a big weekend for the Notre Dame Rugby Club. 
Ranked sixth in the Midwest, the Irish faced their toughest match to date as they hosted eighth-ranked Purdue. 
The game went down to the wire, but Notre Dame proved its mettle, winning 18-15 on a last­second kick. 
The B-and C-teams were also winners on Saturday. The B­team defeated the Boilermakers 34-0, while the C-team knocked off Valparaiso 18-12. 
Facing a team of Purdue's calibre was a good measuring stick for the Irish. 
"This was a great game for us to prepare for the Midwest Tournament," said club presi­dent Victor Pisani. "It helped us judge our progress and realize the areas where we need to im­prove." 
There do not appear to be many areas where improvement is needed, but the team is not satisfied. 
"We need better support on tackles to keep possession of the ball," Pisani explained, "and 
will battle the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater, while Southern 
Illinois will take on Miami of Ohio. The two winners will meet the next day for the right to go to the Midwest 




Black 
continued from page 24 
side of the tracks. 
How can Catholic boys and girls strike fear in the hearts of their opponents? By wearing black uniforms. 
A name change might help, 
too. Frankly, we're sick of being the Fighting Irish. We want to call our teams the Fighting Gangsters. We want posters of Rick Mirer and Demetrius DuBose, carrying Tommy Guns and wearing spats, three-piece black suits and black Notre Dame hats. 
How frightening would our soccer team be with a stopper 



Summer at Loyola 
First Session 6 weeks beginning May 18 Second Session 6 weeks beginning June 29 
• 
Day, evening or weekend classes. 

• 
Courses in Business, Arts and Sciences, Education, Nursing. 

• 
All courses applicable to Loyola University degrees. 

• 
Classes at Loyola's Mallinckrodt Campus in Wilmette, as well as at the Lake Shore, Water Tower and Medical Center Campuses. 

• 
Register using any Touch-Tone telephone. 


To receive your free copy of the 1992 Bulletin of The Summer Sessions, return coupon or call 312-915-650I. 
LOYOI.A The Summer Sessions 820 N. Michigan Avenue 

~ ,..~ UNIVERSITY 
Chicago, IL 60611· 2196 

~ . ;: CHICAGO 
;.-0
'0 ....,
"f~Af.p'C-'.p ~~~~~------------~ 
I Loyola Uoivenity Cbica&<>  I  
820 N. Micbip.o A""uueI O!ica&o. IL 60611-2196  I  
II Name  II  
II Address  II  
I  I  
I City State ZipL ___loyola~~ual op~tunity ~c!!2,'1employer:..,_ _  I ~N~  


[):{]OO[FJ[FJiY) 

ooo~Gu@Joow 
O::iiD[]l)@@Q 

~4J u®@Joow 
Love, 
Mom& 

Michael 
McCann. 
Clark beat McGrew 6-5 and wound up fifth. In the finals, Olson lost to Ohio State's Kevin Randleman, who escaped with a win over McGrew earlier in the year at Notre Dame. 
MAPLE LANE BARBERSHOP 
I 
Serving the Notre Dame Community for Over 30 years
I 2112 South Bend Ave. Appointments if desired 
272-6722 

-




SHEER MADNESS 
Wednesday, March 25 Buses leave LeMans Circle at 6p.m. Tickets $15 Includes admission and transportation to and from Chicago For Ticket Information contact 
Tamie Petak or Tammy Malopsy at 284-5081 Sponsored by the Student Activities Board/Cultural Events 

SMC track takes eight titles at Polar Bear Meet 
By CHRIS BACON 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's track team leaped into its outdoor season Saturday, capturing eight first­place finishes despite the weather at the Wabash Polar Bear Meet. 
"It was cold and windy," ex­plained Belles coach Larry Szczechowski. "The cold weather affects people differ­ently. I think we ran very well under the conditions. I think we would have done just as well anyway." 
Senior co-captains Lynn Pfeffer and Sandy Macklin led the Belles in the field events down in Wabash, breaking three relay records. In the triple jump relay, the two aver­aged a record jump of 65 feet, 8 1/4 inches. In the long jump relay, the two averaged a jump of 30-2. The two also combined efforts for a record -setting 18-1 throw in the javelin. 
"It was a great meet," Pfeffer said. "Three meet records were broken by me and Sandy. And the team as a whole did awe­some." 
"Sandy and Lynn did an excel­lent job in the field events. I think it's nice to take your se­nior captains to a meet and they do so well," added Szczechowski. 
In the track events, the Belles grabbed five more first place finishes. In the 400-meter relay, the team of Katie Linehan, Darcy Bishop, Kathy Maruna and Moha Brennan coasted to a 
55.09 seconds finish. Bishop, Maruna, Brennan and Candi Gossman teamed up in the BOO­meter relay to complete a time of two minutes, two seconds. 
Sharon Fisher, Cheryl Fortunak, Jackie Buckley and Mollie Foley, running in the 3200-meter relay, sped to a first-place finish in a time of 
11:17:05. The girls also teamed up in the distance medley relay, capturing their first-place finish in a time of 15:07:02. 
Foley grabbed the Belles eighth first-place finish in a solo event, the 3000 m, speeding to a 12:40:00 time. 
"Everyone that went placed. We practiced all week long out­side and we did real well," Szczechowski said. "It just shows the work they've done pays off." 
The Belles captured three second-place and four third­place finishes. Fortunak and Tina Gruben teamed up for the high jump relay, leaping into second with a jump of 8-6. Linehan, Gossman, Fortunak and Trudi Sullivan combined efforts in the 1600-meter relay to earn their second-place fin­ish in a time of 4:45:06. Christy LaBarbera flew into second with her 19.04 time in the 100­meter hurdles. 
Liz Holzemer followed her teammate in the 100 hurdles, 

Men's volleyball sweeps weekend foes 
By DAN PIER 
Sports Writer 
Consistency becomes increas­ingly important for the Notre Dame men's volleyball club as it nears post-season tournament time. 
The Irish proved that they should be ready for this week-end's MIVA Regional Cham­pionships by playing consis­tently well in recent victories over Wheaton College and the University of Cincinnati. 
Thursday night's match in the Joyce ACC pit started late when 
the officials failed to arrive. Two volunteers refereed Notre Dame's 15-9, 15-5, 12-15, 15-6 
win. Wheaton proved to be a 
"We played good defense and kept a lot of balls alive," said club president Mike Flecker. "In a lot of situations when we could have gotten down, I think that was definitely a strong 
point. We also hit well. We may not have killed the ball every time, but we hit consistently. We got consistency from every player tonight." 
Friday night, Notre Dame battled Cincinnati at Fairlawn High School in the small town of Sydney, Ohio. Lured by the big-name schools and a Fairlawn 
alum playing for the Bearcats, the season's largest crowd watched Notre Dame prevail
13-15, 15-13, 15-9, 15-12. 
Lynn Pfeffer 
closing out with her first third­place finish in a time of 19.09. Holzemer grabbed another third place finish in the 300­meter hurdles with a time of 1:28:06. 
Bishop, Sullivan, Linehan and LaBarbera teamed up in the split medley relay to capture third place with a time of 2:12:01. 
Closing up the Belles suc­cesses in Wabash was the dis­cus relay team of Paula Brenton and Fisher. Throwing the discus for the first time, Fisher combined efforts with Brenton for a 141-5 1/2 throw. 
"It was really funny because they needed two people because it was a relay," Fisher said, "and we only had one discus thrower. Our coach asked for any volunteers, so I did it. 
"I was watching everybody before the meet trying to figure out how to throw the discus. I was really surprised we came in third." 
"We threw some people into relays at the last minute. We had to make some adjustments, and they did real well. Sharon we taught the discus right be­fore the meet and they took third," Szczechowski explained. 
The Irish led most of the first game but faltered late. When Cincinnati jumped to a 10-3 
lead in the second game, things looked bleak for Notre Dame, but outside hitter Dave Bose turned things around with sev­eral kills. The Irish came back to win the second game and led throughout the third and fourth. 
This time, serving was a key for Notre Dame. 
begmnmg at 7:30p.m. 

surprisingly stubborn opponent, f'l. n _,
but the Irish used tough defense "'~:~------------------,~,Q.n and its usual potent hitting Oj HeartlandTexas~~ ai¥1DanceHall ~;~..
•• 't.n..

attack to overpower Wheaton. () nco ~
1 

f) 11 
strike a i mE MARSHALL niCKER BAND r 
------------------------~~~ 
-
The SADD/BACCHUS Organization and the Office of Alcohol & Drug Education 
would like to thank the following departments for their donations towards the 
"Safe Spring Break" Pledge and Drawing Event held during the week of March 2, 
1992. There were 497 students who made the pledge NOT to drink and drive 
during spring break. Congratulations to those students! 
Chrysler Corporation Computer Store Country Harvester Copy Shop Leprechaun Pizza Company Barber Shop 

Irish Gardens Floral Shop LaFortune Information Desk LaFortune Hair Stylists Notre Dame Bookstore Varsity Shop 
Smerek 7th at Fla. State Relays 
By AlAN AKEY 
Sports Writer 

The men's track team, although short-handed, partic­ipated successfully this week­end in the Florida State Relays in Tallahassee, Fla. 
Only four athletes-Jon Smerek, Ryan Mihalko, Dean Lytle, and Lee Becton-repre­sented the squad in the meet. 
The first outdoor meet of the season allowed Smerek and Mihalko their first throws of the season in the discus and javelin. Smerek, with a throw of 154-1, placed seventh in the discus, while Mihalko managed eighth with his 198-10 toss of the javelin. 
Becton, who missed portions of the indoor season due to in­jury, returned to action in the long and triple jumps. His jump of 6.62 meters placed him 15th in the long jump. 
Lytle, sprinting in the 100­and 200-meter dashes, quali­fied for the 100-meter finals. He accomplished this by placing second in his opening heat with a time of 10.96 seconds. 
This weekend's meet provided a solid foundation for the squad to build on as they move ahead into their outdoor season. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

IISports Briefs are excepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit your name, your brief, your telephone number, and the dates the brief id to run. 
•sports 
Writers are needed to cover Saint Mary's sports. Anyone interested should contact Saint Mary's sports editor Nicole McGrath at the Observer office or at 284-5415. 

•Bookstore 
Basketball teams that are interested in playing against the Hall of Fame team should submit their proposals to the secretary in the Student Government office on the second floor of LaFortune no later than Wednesday, March 25. 

•women's 
Bookstore Basketball signups will be held Thursday. March 26, from 6 to 9 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune and the lobby of Haggar Hall (SMC). The entry fee is $5 per team. Call Eileen of Tracy {x1093) for questions and revised eligibility rules. 

liThe Rockne Pool will be closed until further notice due to repairs. Rolfs Aquatic Center is open Mon-Fri from 7 am to 4 pm and Sat-Sun from 1 pm to 10:30 pm. 

•Bookstore 
Basketball captain's meeting is Thursday, march 26, from 7:30 to 9:00pm in the Library Auditorium. Attendence is necessary. Schedules and game rules will be distributed. 

•Irish 
Heartllghts Spring 3 and 6 mile runs are scheduled for Thursday, April 9 at 4 pm. Students and staff can pick up entry forms at RecSports. LaFortune Info desk, and the Dining Halls. For more information. call 239-6100 and ask for Sally. 


"We served very well," ---------------------------, Fl k t d "W h d 
f ec er no e·r" e ~ v~ry THE 0
p~~e~r~~~~i~~en~rJ~gai~_:_e~~ 

~~y EASIER erybody contnbuted. 
Notre Dame faces Hope Coll_eg~ tonight in the JACC pit 

WAY 1iO GET A 
JOB IS TO WORK 
r------------i

: $5.00 Off 
I 1 Complete Resume Package : 
I Present this COLPOO ot participating Kinko's and receive I
I $5.00 off the p!.fChase of a Complete Resume Package.
fJac:lages vary from location to location. otter ootsood ..I
I 1n combinatioo with other discOU1ts. I 
I 
01992,1Ci1o\cn,:h::Capaun 
tv\ake agreat impression on your future boss (whoever it is) with a compl~e resume package from Kinko's. Just give us the information and we'll giVe you a full set of professionally designed laser typeset resumes complete with matching envelopes and cover Jetter sheets-plus you ca~ choose from a wide variety of papers, styles, typefaces and formats. 

kinko·s· 
the copy center 
Open 24 Hours 
18187 State Rd. 23 • 271-0398 


Today 
Monday, March 23, 1992 page 23 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER CROSSWORD 
BILL WATIERSONCALVIN AND HOBBES 

A?PAR~tfiL'i I RA\I ..l\JS\ B'C.\J:lW 8(/GS 'N\'11-\ 1-\ER.' 

~Edward Julius Collegiate CW84-23 
ACROSS 
n.a:..~c..~ll'\•t.del ..fw lll<u._...,, vst, 1\ft: "" 'I~ U\l.t~~ !}.~fll~\ ISlO(M\•r'\ ~ c.~v~ tc'\tc~ ""'"'~· :t p'a\f'\, 
::7·•-~.• ~ ~·., doet ••• •····~ 11.\\ '' 
LECTURES
e.g,:....~''""~' ~ .... ""~ ~ ~ If\ mtcktc,\ 

..'\....ll\<lt"t.~-~·{\'«: ~\ Jt-::-----:---------------------.!. 

...._ .......-:;.;o.;...,.ioiliOI.i.Ooioo.._____.......-............ 
Monday Albums to avoid 
Noon. Lecture, "God, Truth, and Oaths," Stephen Carter, Cromwell Professor of Law, Yale University, Law School Courtroom. 
:15 p.m. Paul and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholars Series, Urban finance Under Siege, "Is History About to be ReJ?eate~?" Kat~arine Lyall, professor and acting president, 
MENU 

mvers1ty of Wisconsin Systems, Room 122. Hayes-Healy Center. :30 p.m. Lecture, "Juniors: Preparing for Effective Job Search," Paul Reynolds of the Career and Placement Services 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 

ffice, 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
p.m. Lecture with presentation of the Notre Dame AwardTop Round of Beef Baked Ham ormer President Jimmy Carter and Rosalynn Carter, Stepa~Chicken Teriyakio Vegetable Kabob enter.
Pasta Primavera Pasta Bar p.m. Lecture, "Imagining History in the Bible," Robert 

ter, University California, Berkeley. Auditorium, Hesburgh rary Auditorium. 
1 
I 
.. 
J 

The Observer 
is now looking for persons interested in drawing cartoons for the 1992-1993 school year. 
To apply, submit a portfolio of at least 10 cartoons with cover letter to John Rock at The Observer by April 28 at 5:00pm. Applicants must be able to produce 5 cartoons per week. If you have any questions, call The Observer at 239-7471. 
1
-i 
~ 
j 
1 
l ' 
Sports 

page 24 Monday, March 23, 1992 
,. 
.... 

ROLANDO DE 
AGUIAR 
Cheap Shots 


The time has come for a change-let's wear black 
The time has come for change at the 
University of Notre Dame. 
The recognition of GLND/SMC is far too 
frivolous an idea for our administration 
to consider, and we're not mature 
enough to understand the ramifications 
of coeducational housing. 
So let's make a choice we can all 

comprehend. 
Let's make a choice about sports. 
Let's make a choice about fashion. 
It's 1992, and the time has come for 

black. 
We've had enough of the blue, gold 

and occasional green of the traditional 
Notre Dame uniform. We want to join 
the sportswear revolution, and we want 
to join it now. 
Everybody's doing it. 
The Los Angeles Kings switched from 

those wimpy purple and gold girly-suits 
and became Wayne Gretzky's Los 
Angeles KINGS. Now they're a force to 
be reckoned with. 
The Chicago White Sox lost their endless parade of new uniform designs and settled on a nifty. simple black-and­white number that set the world o sportswear on its ear last spring. 
The White Sox were once one of the most dismal performers at sports apparel shops across the country. The team's location, in an enormous market, was all that saved it from the sportswear cellar. 
But with the switch to black-and­white, they've jumped from the outhouse to the penthouse. 
And for Notre Dame, local market doesn't matter. After all, the entire country is a crazed mob of Irish fans. 
With black as a primary color of the Notre Dame palette, the university would make millions more each year as every real American bought his or her piece of Notre Dame clothing. With a little planning, the administration could put the money toward such grandiose pursuits as athlete tutoring and stadium expansion. 
After we tackled the primary concerns, we might have a little left over to hire some teachers and award an extra academic scholarship or two. 
Even the bookstore would profit. 

The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore "On the Campus" simply does not make enough money. Everyone from Toledo to Chicago would make day trips to Notre Dame just to buy black NO apparel, greatly increasing the earnings potential of that little building-which most visitors to our campus tragically choose to ignore. 
But why do those visitors come to Notre Dame? Because they like the grass and the trees and the golden dome? 
Bah! We need black so that we have a tough, street image. America needs to 
see BLACK I page 21 

INSIDE SPORTS 
•sMC track opens outdoor 
season in impressive fashion. see page 22 
•softball takes second at 
Sycamore Classic. see page 20 
•Men's tennis routs Ohio St. see page 19 
Irish host K-State in 2nd round of NIT 

By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame men's basketball team (15-14) will attempt to take one step closer to New York tonight. 
The Irish take on Kansas State (16-13) in the second round of the National Invitational Tournament at 7:30 p.m. at the Joyce ACC. 
The Wildcats are coming off an 85-74 first round win over Western Kentucky. K-State dominated the game from the opening tip, as it jumped out to an 11-2 lead and cruised the rest of the way. 
"I'm impressed with what I have seen of Kansas State," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "They play excellent transition and half-court defense. 
"They are a quick, athletic team that could present us with some problems which I am concerned about." 
One of these problems is the fact that the Wildcats start a four-guard lineup featuring six-foot-five sophomore Askia Jones, six-foot-four junior Vincent Jackson, six-foot-three junior Gayton Henderson and five-foot-eleven senior Marcus Zeigler. 
Jones leads the team in scoring with a 
15.3 points per game average, including 25 against Western Kentucky, and Zeigler, the K-State point guard, comes in with a fine 3. 7 -to-1 assist to turnover ratio. 
Six-foot-eight senior Wylie Howard provides an inside presence for the Wildcats, leading the team in rebounding with a 6. 7 per game average. 
This four-guard set might force the Irish to show a smaller lineup at times to counter Kansas State's quickness. They did this for a portion of the second half last week against Western Michigan, when Elmer Bennett and Daimon Sweet were in the back­court, Billy Wylie Howard Taylor and Malik Russell played forward and LaPhonso Ellis put in some minutes at center. 
When this unit is on the floor, Notre Dame will rely heavily on Taylor and Russell, who combined for 17 points in last Wednesday's first-round win. 
"It is a big help to have someone else putting points on the board," MacLeod 
see NIT I page 17 

Wrestlers come up empty at NCAA's 
'Home advantage' not enough for Irish 
By JIM VOGL Assistant Sports Editor 

J.J. McGrew, from Cleveland, Ok., and Marcus Gowens and Chuck Weaver, both from Del City, Ok.), all made a homecom­ing of sorts. 
But Notre Dame wrestling coach Fran McCann speculated that perhaps the "home advantage" only put more pressures on his wrestlers in the NCAA Championships held in Oklahoma City. 
"All three guys wrestled well," said McCann, "but the thing I was disappointed about was the mental thing. They were in great shape and well prepared, but they just couldn't capitalize." 
Gowens, who made his third-straight appearance in the NCAA's at 126 pounds, entered as the tenth seed. He beat Washington's Dan Smith, 4-1, then lost to Brett Porter of Edinboro, Pa. 
Gowens breezed through the consolation round, mauling seventh­seeded Noel Kcarel 12-4, and Northern Iowa's Andy Showalter, 10-2. Gowens beat Showalter by one point two weeks ago to finish first in the West Regional. 
Then, in the medal round, Gowens tensed up. "Marcus wrestled too tight," said McCann. "He went out with the idea of not being scored upon rather than being aggressive." He lost 10-5 to Oklahoma's Shawn Harrison, who finished third in the tournament for All­American honors. 
Weaver ran into Sylvester Terkay, North Carolina State's six-foot-six, 275­pound heavyweight who steam-rolled to 
see WRESTLING I page 21 
Williams sets career bests at NCAA championships 

By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame swimmer Tanya Williams spent her weekend competing against the best in the country at the NCAA swimming championships in Austin, Texas. 
The junior swam well, finishing 18th in the 200-meter individual medley, tied for 17th in the 100 backstroke, and finished 10th in the 200 backstroke. 
"It was wonderful," said Notre Dame swimming coach Tim Welsh of Williams' performance. "In each of her races, her times were season-best times by a large margin. She consistently improved every day." 
The two personal bests came in the 200 individual medley and the 200 backstroke. In the 200 IM, Williams missed the consolation finals by two spots with a time of 2:03.06. 
The 100 back was the same story, with Williams missing the consolation round by one spot with a time of 56.07. In her best event, the 200 backstroke on Sunday, Williams qualified to swim in the consolation finals in the afternoon in which she finished tenth with a time of 1:58.27. 
All her times in the meet were bests of some sort. In the 200 IM, her previous best time for the season was 2:04.09, which she set at the Olympic Trials two weeks earlier. 
"That is a major drop at that level," said Welsh of her time in the 200 IM. "She made major improvements in the meet." 
"I was pretty happy with my performance," said Williams. "I had two lifetime best times which was good." 
It was in the backstroke events that Williams had lifetime bests at the NCAA's. Her previous personal best in the 100 back was 56.40 and her best time in the 200 back had been 1:59.08. 
Welsh had his own explanation for the improvements in Williams' times. 
"A, she's a heck of an athlete," said Welsh, "and B, she was able to focus and concentrate and be aggressive. Her racing in the last month has been just wonderful. Being race-sharp means a whole lot." 
In addition, a major change in the way the backstroke turn is performed lowered times in the event this year. 
Williams was the only Notre Dame swimmer to compete in the championship meet. Being her own team wasn't as bad as it sounds. 
"It would have been nice to have more people. It's always nice to have other teammates, but it wasn't terrible to be alone," said Williams . 
Williams faced many of the swimmers at the NCAA meet a few weeks earlier at the Olympic trials in Indianapolis. 
"It's always the same people at the big meets. Competing against them two weeks before got me more in the mood," commented Williams. 
The road to the NCAA meet was not an easy one for Williams. She has lived in a hotel room for two weeks in the month of March. 
"I have been really impressed with how focused, how open, and how clear she has been in the final weeks of this season," said Welsh. "She has ap­proached every day with the right attitude." 







