The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 36 MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Clinton, Perot express need for change in debate 

PRESIDENTIAL
By JULIE BARRETT Assistant News Editor 
DEBATE 
S T . L 0 U I S 
While Gov. Bill Clinton and 
have engulfed the American
Ross Perot expressed the need people under Bush's adminis­for change, President George tration.
Bush appealed to the American 
"I have no experience in
voter to allow him to finish the running up a $4 trillion debt, orjob he started four years ago in a gridlock government or the
the first of three scheduled 
worst public schools and crimepresidential debates held last society in the industrial world," night at Washington University Perot said. 
in St. Louis. 
"But I do have experience inBoth Clinton and Perot em­getting the job done," he added. 
phasized the economic crisis Perot said the U.S. cannot beand huge national deficit that a "superpower if it is not an 
ND Right to Life group pickets abortion clinic 
By KENYA JOHNSON able. News Writer Another woman entered the clinic but left soon after. "I just Notre Dame Right-to-Life stu­couldn't do it," the unknown 
dents and members of the woman said. "I could not go Michiana community protested through with it." outside South Bend's Women's One save is a lot in one day, 
Pavilion abortion clinic last Fri­according to Johnson. day. "It encourages us to continue 
The demonstration was doing what we do," she said. "It peaceful as the pro-life group makes all the other times that walked in a circle praying the we've protested all day and Rosary. didn't save the babies lives 
"All we really want to do is worth it." make our presence known," Across from the abortion said Claire Johnson, co-presi­clinic is the Pregnancy Life Line dent of NO Right-to-Life. "We clinic, a non-profit organization want women going into the that offers alternatives to abor­clinic to know that there are al­tion to women and often sup­ternatives other than abortion." ports protestors. 
Ninety percent of women who "We counsel women and let actually proceed with abortions them know there are other say they felt they had no other ways than abortion to handle choice at the time, explained their situation," said Martha Johnson. Suter, a volunteer worker. 
Members of the group said Adoption is one option the that they saw two women clinic presents, but they do not walking out of the clinic looking force anything on the women, weak, faint and in much pain. said Suter. "We just try to make 
"It's hard to watch," said the situation the best we can for Right-to-Life member Anne the woman," she said. Marie McMorrow. "It's really Suter said she loves seeing difficult to look at that woman protesters outside of Women's and know what she just did. But Pavilion. 
I guess that's why we're out "The people at the clinic get here today," she added. really nervous and it just shows But no information concern­that they (the protestors) are ing their treatment was avail-see ABORTION I page 4 
economic power." He proposed to strengthen the American economy by raising taxes, and thereby reducing the federal deficit, building infrastructure and creating jobs for the American people. 
Clinton echoed Perot's pro­posal, adding that there are two deficits in America: "a budget deficit and an income and jobs deficit." 
He said the problem with Perot's solution is that "cutting the deficit too quick would slow the economy down too much." 
Clinton answered questions about his plan to tax the rich, saying that he proposes in­creasing taxes for but also pro­viding incentives for investment by those individuals with incomes over $200,000. His plan includes modest middle class tax relief, especially for families with an annual income under $60,000. 
Bush disagreed with what he called Clinton's "tax and spend" economic plan, saying that taxing would not generate Clinton's expected $150 billion, and that "the workingman would end up paying the bills." 
To decrease the deficit, Bush said the government needs to 

Notre Dame Junior John Hermanson gets information about the newlydedicated Debartolo Hall from Holy Cross College Sophomore Bob Stanfield and Freshman David Armstead. 
Columbus still a hero poll shows 
NEW YORK (AP) -The rep­utation of Christopher Colum­bus remains relatively untar­nished 500 years after his ar­rival in the New World, an As­sociated Press poll shows: About two in three Americans regard him as a hero. 
The anniversary of the Ital­ian navigator's first voyage across the Atlantic has brought renewed scrutiny of the explorer's effect on the natives of the land he mistook for "the Indies." 
Columbus robbed, brutalized and enslaved Indians and started centuries of destruction of their cultures. But only 15 percent 
see POLL I page 4 

Myerson: Columbus Day should be commemorated 
By NICK RIOS News Writer 
While Christopher Columbus has traditionally been seen as a hero for his discovery of the Americas, today many Ameri­cans stand against the celebra­tion of Columbus Day, accord­ing to Professor Mark Meyerson of the history department at Notre Dame. 
On Oct. 12, many people all over the world celebrate Columbus as a hero who defied all odds, he said. 
Columbus, a man of ambi­tions and goals, was a social climber and an extraordinary navigator, Meyerson said. While everyone was afraid to travel the oceans, he was determined to do so, discovering the new world and earning such titles as "The Admiral of the Sea." 
"Christopher Columbus' dis­covery of America set forth a series of events that would change the history of the world, for ever," he said. 
When the Spanish kings did not receive the promised gold and spices, they began to view Columbus as a failure and a disappointment, said Meyerson. He also started to lose his reputation among other people and was no longer seen as the hero. 
In recent years, the public has judged Columbus primarily for the positive impact his dis­covery had on the world, Mey­erson said. He was the man who overcame all odds and all obstacles to discover what for many was a crazy and impossi­ble notion, that the world was round and undiscovered land existed. 
But while the disintegration of his reputation began several centuries ago, it now continues to decline among revisionists. 
see COLUMBUS/ page 4 


control the growth of manda­tory spending and introduce no new taxes. 
"We need to control growth and get taxes down," he said. "I continue to support a capital gains cut, tax incentives for in­vestments, and a tax break for first-time homeowners." 
In response to questions about military spending, specif­ically maintaining armies in Europe, Bush said the U.S. needs forces in Europe to guarantee the peace, but he added that reductions have 
see DEBATE I page 4 
DeBartolo 
. .

ga1ns pra1se 
.


1n ceremony 
By ROB ADAMS News Writer 
University administrators lauded the technology of the new DeBartolo Classroom Building during an inaugura­tion ceremony Friday. 
"De Bartolo's designers 
watched the signs of the times, 
knowing that its students grew 
up in a world of computing," 
said Sister Elaine DesRosiers, 
director of Media Services at 
DeBartolo. 
The building contains 13 classrooms in which a profes­sor can utilize a computer with the overhead projector, and all computers contain podiums for faculty members to incorporate media into their programs, ac­cording to Donald Spicer, assis­tant provost for University Computing. 
The building has two collabo­rative classrooms with both IBM and Macintosh computers. "Those classrooms were de­signed specifically for fresh­men," Spicer added, and promised that "all freshmen will use one of those computer classrooms at least once." 
see DEBARTOLO/ page 4 

Q: Some people say Columbus was a villain who took the natives' land and forced them into slavery. Others say Columbus was a hero for leading a daring expedition. Do you see Columbus as a hero or villain? 
Q: What do you think motivated Columbus? 
Curiosity about the world 
61% 
A sense of adventure 
47% 
A search for gold and profits 
-
Q: Columbus Day will be observed October 12th. Would you like to see it observed... 


INSIDE COLUMN 
FORECAST 

Random notes on the great debate 
It's debate time again. 

Ah yes, that experience that comes and goes and makes us snooze in the interim. 
Although most debates are just diarrhea of the mouth from political 

babes, last night  was  John Rock  
different.  This  year,  Managing Editor  
rather  than  choosing  

from two people we love --=,.------,,..---­to hate, we have the Nouveau Three Stooges. Not much was decided at the debate yes­terday, but several things should be pointed out. 
• 
George Bush looks terrible without glasses. It's hard to listen to him tell us that he's earned our trust looking him in those beady, sinister eyes. He scored well last night, though, because he came across as a president that's ready for another four years. 

• 
Bill Clinton lived up to his nickname, "Slick Willie" with that soon to be patented hairdo. Clinton also preformed well, especially under the seemingly spontaneous question regarding his definition of family. 

Clinton handled Bush's attack on his foreign ventures well, reaffirming his own patriotism in the face of George's flag waving. 

• 
H. Ross Perot was more than "all ears" last night. He presented himself as the candidate o the people, despite the large financial gap that does separate himself from the common folk. 


Perot actually presented himself as the real candidate for change, constantly proclaiming that he would "get things done." The gasoline tax was the only thing that was really expounded upon, but he seemed honest about being ready to take the job. 
• 
Along the lines of economic philosophy, each candidate seemed sure that their plan was the best. Bush made a good point when he stated that the country was not "coming apart at the seams," but Clinton succeeded in casting doubt on whether Bush has done all he could for the economy. 

• 
Perot's presence in the election is going to be interesting, as was his position in the debate yesterday. At the onset of the debate, Bush and Clinton seemed as if they were ignoring him, but this may be because they were trading brush punches. Perot hung in there though, and seemed their equal by the end of the ninety minutes. 

• 
Yesterday's debate probably did not sway too many people. As the commentators commentated, the candidates only strengthened the positions on which they have been preaching. 


The debate was not meant to do much more than that. The next debate will be the one where people start to make up their minds. 
• 
The Perot factor will be an interesting factor. Ironically, he will will the favor of the "working class." Many people see Bush and Clinton as opposite sides of the same old thing, and they want someone to just sit down and do it. 

• 
The Perot analogy to running the country like a business is a good one. People realize that we can't keep running on fumes. Keeping in line with America's desire for a quick-fix, people may favor a radical move over a more prudent one. 


Only time and a couple of debates will tell. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff:  
News:  Viewpoint:  
Becky Barnes  Honora Buckley  
Sarah Doran  Production:  
Sports:  Melissa Cusack  
George  CynthiaEhrhardt  
Dohrman  Accent:  
Lab Tech:  Susan Marx  
Jake Peters  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member ol the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Partly cloudy and cool today. Temper­atures in the 40's 50's today and tomorrow, warming the 70's on Wednesday. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  
Anchorage  37  
Atlanta  73  
Bogota  66  
Boston  70  
Cairo  84  
Chicago  54  
Cleveland  62  
Dallas  80  
Detroit  56  
Indianapolis  61  
Jerusalem  75  
London  55  
Los Angeles  86  
Madrid  68  
Minneapolis  52  
Moscow  52  
Nashville  70  
New York  68  
Paris  57  
Philadelphia  71  
Rome  75  
Seattle  63  


Pr9ssur9 
South Bend 54 Tokyo 79


H L 
~ 
Washington, D.C. 73 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 

sultant with Mid America Group of Philadelphia, has been appointed to the newly created position of assistant re­gional director in Notre Dame's New York development office. Hickey, a New York City native and 1961 NO grad­uate, worked sales for Proctor & Gamble and was a spe­cial agent in the Department of National Intelligence be­fore beginning a 24-year tenure as president and chief executive officer of B.R. Peters Oil, Inc. and the Hickey Energy Group of Stroudsburg, Pa. Hickey is also co­founder and past president of the Pocono Mountains Notre Dame Club and a member of the University's Alumni Senate. 
Young alligators found in bedroom 
•OMAHA, Neb. -Nearly 100 young alligators were found in a man's bedroom after a deal apparently gone awry between a Japanese buyer and a Florida reptile seller, authorities said. The alligators apparently wound up in the Omaha area when the customer didn't pay, said Lt. Tom Quinn, an investigator for the Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission. The man in possession of the 98 alligators when they were found Wednesday ap­peared to have been an innocent party who agreed to care for them for a friend, Quinn said Friday by telephone from Tallahassee, Fla. It is legal for people to own alliga­tors in Nebraska, said Cleveland Vaughn, special agent for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in Omaha. The alli­gators, between 13 inches and 21 inches long, lived in the bedroom for a couple of weeks, Quinn said. They are a 

OF INTEREST 
•Ethical issues of the 1992 election will be pre­sented by the Keenan and Pasquerilla East Political Fo­rum Series. Professors Todd Whitmore and Ralph Mcin­erny will speak in the Keenan Hall commons at 7:00 
p.m. tonight. Pizza will be served after the forum. All are welcome to attend. 
•Notre Dame Student Players are holding auditions for the play "Ordinary People" tonight and tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Room 219 O'Shaughnessy. All are invited to audition and no preparation is necessary. Call Cara at 283-4238 or Mike at 283-1407 with questions. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING September 30 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 224,371,680 -2.51 to 222.11 

S&P COMPOSITE 
-5.09 to 402.66 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
-39.45 to 3,136.58 
GOLD 
·$0.40 to $347.80 oz 
SILVER 
+$0.14 to $3.762 oz 

year or two old, he said. 

Jury refuses to indict rape suspect 
•AUSTIN, Texas -A woman expressed outrage over a grand jury's refusal to indict a rape suspect who wore a condom at her request. "I was raped by a man and now I'm being raped by society," the woman said. The suspect, 27 -year-old Joel Rene Valdez, said the woman consented to having sex. "She's the one who gave me the condoms. If she didn't want to, why would she give me the condoms?" he said. Valdez told police he had sex with the woman after hiding in her apartment. The woman said she asked the stranger, who was carrying a knife, to wear the condom because she wanted protection from sexually transmitted diseases. 

Earthquake predictions come true 
•LOS 
ANGELES -Mild earthquakes shook a remote stretch of the San Andreas Fault this month, slightly bolstering the likelihood that the government's first official quake prediction might come true. "Among some scientists, there is a little bit more hope (the predicted quake may happen), but I'm pretty reserved. I'm not a gambling person," U.S. Geological Survey geophysicist John Langbein said Friday. Based on the regularity of moderate quakes roughly every 22 years since 1857, the agency predicted in 1985 a quake measuring 6 on the Richter scale was 95 percent likely near Parkfield, Calif., during a 10-year period centered around January 1988. 

•Going 
away tor break? Ticket donations for the BYU game (10/24) will be taken Tuesday and Wednesday evenings at both dining halls to be given to a mentally handicapped client at Logan Center. Just tear off your BYU football ticket and drop it at either dining hall at dinnertime. 

•Ten 
tutors are needed for children of the Po­towatami Nation at the Center for Social Concerns on Thursday's beginning on October 29 from 7 to 9 p.m. The children are mostly elementary school age. If interested, call Patty Flynn at the C.S.C., 239-5319. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1492: Christopher Columbus arrived with his expedition in the present-day Bahamas. 

• 
In 1892: The original version of the Pledge of Allegiance was first recited in public schools. 

• 
In 1960: Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev disrupted a 


U.N. General Assembly session by pounding his desk with a shoe during a dispute. 
• 
In 1973: President Nixon nominated House Minority Leader Gerald Ford of Michigan to succeed Spiro Agnew as vice president. 

• 
In 1987: Vice President George Bush formally launched his quest for the Republican presidential nomination. 


..------------------------------------~~-.-.~---~ ---~­
Monday, October 12, 1992 The Observer page 3 




Imagination will aid homeless 
By BECKY BARNES Assistant News Editor 
To bring women and children out of poverty, Americans must imagine new roles for women and the economy, said Rose­mary Haughton in a fireside chat Friday as part of the Multi­cultural Fall Festival. 
Haughton is an author and co-founder of Wellspring House, a community for the homeless in Massachusetts. 
Although people usually think of single men on the street when they consider the home­less, women and children ac­tually make up the largest part of the poor in America, said Haughton. One cause of this poverty is the role of women in society, she continued. 
"Women are socialized not to compete," said Haughton. "They learn to expect to be de­pendent." 
Women are less likely to be trained to earn money because they expect to be married and supported by their husbands, she said. However, they often must support themselves be­cause domestic abuse has forced them to leave their hus­bands, or their husbands have left them because of the loss of self esteem that results from the inability to support his family. 
If women are employed, they often have part time and lower paying jobs, which are the first to be cut during a recession. Women with children must earn enough money for child care, and the "jobs they can get would never be enough to pay normal day care," Haughton said. 
Haughton sees no short term solution to the problems of poverty in America. Suffering and hopelessness will continue to increase, she said. However, she finds long term hope in the power to imagine an alternate system. 
"People are no longer believ­ing the kind of economy run-
THE KEENAN AND PASQUERILLA EAST POLITICAL FORUM SERIES 
Presents 

ETHICAL ISSUES OF THE 1992 ELECTION 
Featuring: 

Professor Todd Whitmore and Professor Ralph Mcinerny 
Keenan Hall Commons Monday October 12, 7:00 P.M. 
The three questions for this forum arc: 
1.) Can you vote for a candidate that you support overall, but who has a stance to which you arc either morally or ethically opposed? Justify your position. 
2.) Is a candidate's private life both before and during an election/presidency an important political issue? Explain. 
3.) Which candidate do you feel best espouses a consistent ethic of life? What caused you to come to this conclusion? 
Pizza Will Be Served Following The Forum 
EVERYONE IS ENCOURAGED TO ATTEND! 
ning our world works," she said. "Socialism didn't work. Capitalism didn't work except to make a lot of people a lot of money." 
Decentralization, or people taking responsibility locally, is an alternative, said Haughton. Health care clinics that profes­sionals staff in their spare time, free schools where those with skills teach others, and land trusts are options some com­munities are now implement­ing. 
"Whatever change comes will not come from Washington, not from the Vatican, but small, patient, intelligent groups of people," she said. "If everybody is helping everybody else, there will be enough." 
Haughton especially sees hope in groups of women working together. Society has traditionally given men per­mission to do things, but now "when women get together it gives them permission to be together, to imagine . . . to take big steps." 

The Observer/Andrea Fisk 

It's a picnic 
Dillion Hall freshmen Chris Gallo and Kerry McGee serve themselves at the Sesquicentennial Picnic held yesterday at Alumni Field after the Sesquicentennial Mass. 

U. Mass. minority students stage protest in dormitory 
AMHEnST, Mass. (AP) ­Minority students rampaged 

Club Column 
OCTOBER 12, 1992 
1) All Clubs must make an appointment with their division chairs for their first semester meetings. Information pertinent to all clubs will be discussed. Contact your division chair for an appointment time. And remember to check your mailboxes regularly. 
2) Campus Fellowship meeting on Friday, 10/16 at 7:30p.m. in Lafortune's Notre Dame room. 
3) Campus Bible Fellowship meeting Tuesday 7 p.m. room 303 Haggar College Center (St. Mary's) 
4) Society of Hispanic Engineers/ Society of Mexican-American Engineers and Scientist meeting Monday, 1 0/12 in 356 Fitzpatrick. 
5) ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club meeting Thursday, 10/15 at Stephen Center 8 p.m. Bring $25 dues. 
6) Baptist Student Union meets 7 p.m. every Monday at the Center for Social Concerns. 
7) M. U.N. Club meeting Monday, 10112 at 7 p.m. 124 Hayes-Healy. 
8) ND/SMC Equestrian Club Please return IHSA forms ASAP. Questions, call Megan 283-2784 
9) Toastmasters International of Notre Dame meets every Tuesday at 7 p.m. in Lafortune's Foster Room. 
All registered clubs may place short announcements of meetings and activities in the CLUB COLUMN. Entries are due in the Club Coordination Council Office by 6 p.m. on Wednesday. 
through a dormitory at the University of Massachusetts and blocked a street to protest an attack on a black student. 
The Thursday protest culmi­nated two weeks of racial tur­moil that began Sept. 25 with an attack on a black dormitory assistant by a white man who allegedly punched him and hurled racial insults. The assis­tant later found racial epithets and feces outside his room, campus officials have said. 
University Chancellor Richard O'Brien called a meeting Friday and was met by protesters. A security guard, fearing the chancellor's exit might be blocked, hustled him out a side door. 
Several minority students shouted for him to stay; one called him "the white people's chancellor." 
O'Brien said five new police officers were being trained to help protect minority students. 
"I wish we were always prompt in tackling these major questions," he said. "We were not. I'm sorry for it, and we're trying to do that now." 
A STRONG PARTNERSHIP AND 1, the past two years, GE has 1i1ere's a lot of talent at GE, too. hired more Notre Dame grads than Couple this talent with technology ever before. Why? Just look in the leadership, strong financial mirror. There's a lot of talent performance and a management under the Dome. team second to none and you've got the recipe for a truly world­class company. Sop by the Placement Office and get all the details. Invitational Sign-up: September 28 -29 Open Sign-up: October 12-13 Fast • Creative •Competitive An equal opportunity employer Campus Interviews: November 5-6  

What do you want to do with your Christmas money? 

Aspen/Snowmass, CO. Jan 2 ., 10, 1993 
Sponsored by NO Ski Team 



$425°0 
Questions Call Chris Boone 
273.,2958 

Armando's Barber & Hair Style Shop 1639 Edison Road South Bend, IN 46637 
Walking Distance from Campus Across from the Linebacker Appointments Encouraged . Walk-ins taken on a 111 come, 111 serve basis 
-~--~-~~----------------------------------------"""'1 
page 4 The Observer Monday, October 12, 1992 
Seniors Katie Eustermann and John Reichert examine the bronze Romeo and Juliette sculpture during the opening of the Rodin exhibit Snite Museum of Art this weekend. 
Happy 21st Birthday 

Mike 
Love, All Your Family 

technologies. Both Clinton and Perot agreed

Debate 

that the U.S. needs economic security in order to provide
continued from page 1 

national security. been made and will be contin­Clinton proposed taking ued to be made in defense "every dollar from defense cuts spending. and putting it into new tech­
"If we make imprudent cuts, nologies to generate the econ­we risk the peace," he said. omy." "We cannot cut into our muscle Other issues raised included and peace insurance policy." health care, AIDS, family values 
He emphasized his strong and racial strife. leadership and experience in Clinton emphasized the im­foreign affairs, citing the portance of controlling health Panama and Kuwait invasions care costs and changing the as examples of his ability to health insurance system in make "decisive moves in the order to provide coverage for face of grave danger." everyone. 
Clinton agreed with Bush that Bush responded to the the military must remain speculation about his efforts in strong, but proposed a smaller, the AIDS cause, saying, "I have more mobile military with an doubled funding for AIDS. This emphasis on advancing defense year we have put $4.9 billion 

drawing attention to the people
us who died and were enslaved as a result of his voyages. They continued from page 1 tend to blame the suffering of all their people solely on
Meyerson said that today, 
Columbus, he said.

groups of Native Americans, 
Meyerson said that Ameri­
Africans and other conscien­
cans should not be moral
tious people protest the 
judges of Columbus or fault him 
celebration of Columbus Day, 
into the AIDS cause, which is ten times as much per AIDS victim than per cancer victim." 
In response to the issue of family values, Perot received loud applause after saying, "This is not a great country without great, strong families." 
The next presidential debates are scheduled for October 15 and 19, and the vice­presidential debate will be Oct. 20. 
Jim Lehrer of PBS's "MacNeil­Lehrer News Hour" moderated the debate. The questioners included Ann Compton, ABC News White House reporter, John Mashek, Boston Globe White House reporter, and Sander Vanocur, a freelance journalist who has worked for ABC and NBC. 
for everything that happened. Credit must be given where it is due, he added. 
Out of respect for the people who suffered after the discov­ery, perhaps Columbus Day should not be celebrated, but it should, at least, be commemo­rated, Meyerson concluded. 


Abortion 
continued from page1 
truly making a difference," she said. 
Right-to-Life strives not only to make their presence known to the clinic, but also to the community, according to Co­President Bill Keen. 
"Nobody has any idea that right next to the McDonald's they always go to is an abortion clinic" said Keen. "We're trying to open the eyes of the public and let them knowing what's happening daily in their com­munity." 

Suter tried to convince the husband of one women that went into the clinic to stop his wife. 
"Get her out of there," said Suter. "We can help you find a different way." The man did not respond to her pleas. 
Employees of the Women's Pavilion refused to comment. 

 
Wednesday, Oct. 14,8 p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium The National Touring Production Saint Mary's community (wlid) $6 ND students/guests$12  Friday-Sunday, Nou. 13-15 Saint Mary's presents AN EVENING OF OPERA AND DANCE Tickets $6/$5 MOREAU GALLERIES, Brinsley Tyrrell, sculpture; Lilian Tyrrell, tapestries; Oct. 9-Nov. 6. Admission free. COMING ATTRACTIONS... ACDA Central Division Collegiate Honors Festival Choir, Oct. 31... The Statesmen, Nov. 6 ... The Ink Spots, Nov. 21.  
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary· s --~ffi--­box office. located In O"Laughlin Auditorium. SaintMary's Colleg~ Information and charge card orders: 219/284-4626. NOTRE DAME· INDIANA  


DeBartolo 
continued from page 1 
"DeBartolo Hall can accom­modate 10,000 students at one time," Spicer continued. "Its technology is doing away with the typical 'chalk-n-talk' pro­gram." 

Spicer demonstrated the ver­satility of DeBartolo's technol­ogy by displaying three com­puter-relayed speeches from professors. 
Spicer said the building should "provide an environ­ment where students will learn more effectively and allow fac­ulty to teach more effectively." 
The audience members were able to see the technology in action as professors of subjects ranging from Naval Science to Renaissance Art were on hand to show how they had incorpo­rated the use of multi-media into their teaching. Educa­tional media held exhibitions in five classrooms. 
"Already 25 universities have come to get a glimpse of the technology in this building," said DesRosiers. 
The construction of the De­Bartolo building represents a "significant moment in Notre Dame history," said Roger Schmitz, vice president and as­sociate provost. "Father Sorin would have been proud." 
Coming: 

Five-Hundred Years from the Arrival of Columbus 
Z:he Ch-r-isrophe-r­Columbus J=oLLies: 

A Production by the Underground Railway Theater 
October 13, 1992 Washington Hall, 8:00 PM University of Notre Dame 
How should we respond to the Quincentennial of Columbus' landing in the "New" World? This energetic performance by an award-winning national touring company explores the legacy o_f Columbus from multiple viewpoints while examining issues of cultural encounter, racism, ecology, class division, Native American concerns, and more. The play combines music, pup­petry, humor, magic and other theatrical media to challenge, inform, and encourage dialogue. 
Tickets are available at: 
LaFortune Information Desk  $7 General Admission  
Center for Social Concerns  $5 Students  
and at the door  Reduced Group Rates Available  

Cosponsored by: Center for Social Concerns Student Union Board Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
Student Government Multicultural Executive Council 


Poll 
continued from page 1 

in the poll said they agreed with those who call Columbus a villain. 
Sixty-four percent said he is a hero. Nine percent said he is both. The remainder said he is neither, or were unsure. 
A majority, 56 percent, said they would like to see Colum­bus Day observed as a celebra­tion, while 32 percent wanted it to be a solemn day to reflect on the past. The rest were not sure or wanted it observed both ways. 

The poll was taken Sept. 30 to Oct. 4 among a random sample of 1,001 adults by ICR Survey Research Group of Media, Pa., part of AUS Consultants. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus 3 percentage points. 
·-------------------------------------------~------------------~ 
Monday, October 12, 1992 The Observer 

ELECTION '92 
ELECTION BRIEFS 

•DALLAS -Ross Perot's TV campaign is getting more active. Perot has bought an hour of time on ABC next Saturday, a half-hour on NBC the night before the election and dozens of 30-and 60-second spots on ABC between now and then, according to The Dallas Morning News. The Dallas businessman spent $1 million last week to twice broadcast a half-hour program in which he lectured about the nation's troubled economy. 
Bank willin to cut rates 
•HOT SPRINGS, Va. -Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said Saturday that election-year politics won't keep the central bank from cutting interest rates again if needed to stimulate the sluggish economy. But, in a rare news conference with reporters attending a meeting of chief executives of the nation's largest corporations, Greenspan carefully refrained from giving any hint of the Fed's future course. "Obviously if we perceive that further actions are required ... we will do so. If not, not," he said. 

Clinton in good health 
•KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Bill Clinton said Saturday he's in "excellent health" and he'll have his campaign put out more details on his medical background. Clinton, responding to a New York Times story that said he hadn't been very forth­coming about his health, noted that his doctors had released brief letters months ago attesting to his good health. "But as Election Day draws near, I believe it is necessary to provide more details," Ointon said in a statement. Ointon said it had been a "glitch" that the Times hadn't gotten the information it wanted. 




FBI finds no tampering with Clinton's passport 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The FBI says it found "no evidence of tampering" with Bill Clinton's passport files at the State Department. 
In a brief, unsigned statement issued Friday, the FBI said it "is satisfied that all logical investigation has been com­pleted. No further investigation is con­templated at this time." 
FBI officials declined further comment when asked if earlier reports that several pages were missing from Clin­ton's passport files were true. 
The issue arose when Newsweek magazine reported this week that sev­eral pages appeared to have been ripped out of Clinton's passport records from the 1960s and 1970s. 
The discovery was reported to have been made by State Department officials who looked at the files of the Democratic presidential nominee in response to Freedom of Information Act requests from news organizations. 
Bush/Clinton run even in Indiana 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton are running neck­and-neck in Indiana, according to a poll released Saturday. 
Gov. Evan Bayh holds a wide lead over Republican Linley Pearson, and Democrat Joseph Hogsett has gained somewhat on Sen. Dan Coats' substan­tial advantage, the Indianapolis Star poll found. 
The survey said respondents favor Clinton by a 42 percent to 41 percent margin. However, the survey's 3.5 per­cent margin of error makes the differ­ence statistically insignificant. 
But the results do reflect a gain for Clinton, who trailed Bush 50 to 41 per­cent in a Star poll taken in early September. 
Ross Perot's re-entry into the race may have hurt Bush, the paper said. Perot was favored by 8 percent of the respondents. 
No Democrat has carried Indiana since Lyndon Johnson's victory over Barry Goldwater in 1964. 

The Observer/Ann-Marie Conrado 
The Star ran the poll in its Sunday editions, but provided a copy to The As­sociated Press Saturday night. For the poll, which was conducted for the Star by the Gordon Black Corp .. 803 reg­istered voters were phoned at random last Sunday through Wednesday. 
In the gubernatorial contest, Bayh, a Democrat, increased his lead over Pearson, Indiana's attorney general, to nearly 40 percentage points. 
page 5 


Campaign won't let Vietnam die 
The metaphors have been exhausted: the wound that won't heal, the night­mare that won't go away, the corpse that won't rest. Now, the presidential campaign has occasioned Vietnam's latest revival, and reminded us that it truly is America's longest war. 
"Every time I think it's dead, it comes back," said George Herring, a University of Kentucky historian. 
The war clearly was tragic, but two decades later it still lacks one element that would render it a tragedy, and ul­timately make it acceptable: a conclu­sion. 
"The war's issues were divisive -as divisive as any since the Civil War ­and they were never resolved," said Herring, author of "America's Longest War." "It might have been different if we had found a way to come to terms with them, but after the war the differ­ences were pushed under the surface." 
This year, Vietnam has surfaced re­peatedly in and around the presi­dential campaign. Bill Clinton and Dan Quayle were of draft age during the war but never served actively; Quayle entered the National Guard and Clinton tried to avoid the draft. He also helped organize anti-war protests in Washington and London. 
Ross Perot has based much of his reputation on his work on behalf of Vietnam-era soldiers held prisoner or missing in action. His running mate and chief campaign spokesmen were POWs. 

,......-~---~----.........-~-----------------~-----------­


Viewpoint 
page 6 Monday, October 12,1992 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager .•..••Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor .....•..•... Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Should he have stayed. • • • 
Dear Editor: resolution. sponsibility with which his 
We are writing in response to By accepting the position of constituents empowered him, what we feel were the inappro­student senator, Farmer his unwillingness to continue to priate actions of Tyler Farmer, implicitly accepted a responsi­support his own opinions, and District 1 Senator (South Quad) bility to be a student leader and his lack of respect for his peers at the Monday, Oct. 5 Student to represent the constituency of and for the senate decision­Senate meeting. The Senate his district. making framework that we find discussion surrounded Mc­Part of the responsibility of unacceptable. Constituents of Carthy's resolution responding being a student leader involves Farmer's district should be to NBC's "Saturday Night Live" respecting opposing opinions as outraged at his inappropriate episode with Sinead O'Connor. well as presenting your own in conduct. 
Many issues and concerns a considerate manner. It is this When Farmer walked out of were voiced during the discus­debate between dissenting the meeting, he walked out on sion, and it was obvious from opinions which leads to his responsibility to his con­Farmer's remarks that he effective action. By walking out stituents and to his fellow stu­opposed any senate action con­prior to the vote, Farmer dent leaders. cerning this issue. disregarded both of these Teri Niederstadt 
After lengthy discussion, a obligations. We can understand Student Body Treasurer motion was passed to vote on his disagreement with the Jennifer Blanchet the resolution. At this point majority view. Club Coordinator Farmer elected to leave the However, it is Farmer's Oct. 6, 1992 meeting and did not vote on the blatant disregard for the re-

Dear Editor:  However, it seems to me that  campus.  
I must admit that I'm a bit  such non-toleration is precisely  Farmer, who dissented and  
confused by the motives behind  that:  censoring and banning.  even  walked  out  of  the  
the Student Senate Resolution  In fact, I even question the au­ proceedings in protest, had the  
calling for  a  formal apology  thority of the Student Senate, a  right idea:  "We are essentially  
from NBC (The Observer, Oct.6).  representative body, to pass  asking NBC  to  censor their  
Connolly claims that the Senate  such a resolution.  shows, and that is  not  our  
isn't censoring, isn't banning;  Granted,  McCarthy,  who  place."  
they're simply saying that they  drafted  the  proposal,  was  Adam Leigland  
"don't  approve  and  won't  offended, but he is not the  Stanford Hall  
tolerate what happened."  arbiter of moral values on this  Oct. 6, 1992  
GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  

'It Sinead O'Connor ever has the guts to sing in New York City again, I'm going to jump up on the stage and tear up a picture of Uncle Fester.' 
Phil Hartman SNL Comedian 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 

'Twelfth Man' needs an excited team to cheer on 
Dear Editor: 
Allow me to preface this letter with the statement that I am now, always have been, and always will be a strong sup­porter of the University of Notre Dame and its football team. 
So, let's hope that the criti­cism I'm about to make will be accepted in the same spirit with which it is offered. 
My husband and I, along with our excited out-of-town guests, here for their first Notre Dame home game, attended the pep rally at the ACC on the Friday evening before the Notre Dame­Stanford game. 
The stands were packed with Notre Dame enthusiasts-par­ents and so many supporters. The leprechaun, the pom-pom girls and the cheerleaders per­formed with great spirit and thrilled the crowd. The band added the crowning touch with their stirring rendition of "Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame." 
And, then-the team !urn-

Holy Cross 

appreciates recognition 
Dear Editor, 
I am writing to thank J. Larry Neff, President of the Notre Dame Class of 1984, for rec­ognizing Holy Cross College pa­tronage to the Goodwill stores. 
Many times Holy Cross Col­lege has gone unrecognized for its participation in community 
DOONESBURY 
bered in! Although we noticed, 
it was our guests who pointed 
out that the football squad 
looked bored, as if they'd prefer 
to be anywhere else but in the 
ACC at that moment. 
Even Jerome Bettis' urging 
the spectators to be an 
enthusiastic twelfth man (at the 
game) didn't seem to elicit 
much of a response or reaction 
from the rest of the team. 
Is this some kind of macho 
attitude, where the big, husky 
football players believe that a 
friendly wave, a smile or some 
upbeat acknowledgment to the 
"twelfth man" would put a 
chink in their tough image? 
Come on, guys, lighten up! 
We support you and are eager 
to cheer you on. But, it would 
be more spontaneous (and 
more fun) if you would show 
that you are enjoying our com­
pany, too! 
Go Irish! 

Dorothy Berger Granger, Indiana 
Oct. 9, 1992 

student 
(j{j&$W105B4CK, SIR, IA5T MONTH CAMPt:R5/ MJRJP· YC:V 7Dtl? TH/35tN­CtA93FRIN6U'AN· A~ YaJHAfJFI?5H P!Pill&ROS5P6/IIJT! 13VIPtWC£or CAN 'tWHEARIff£, VI/37NAM P.0./11.5,., MR. Pa?tJT? 
service. 
We appreciate the recognition and thoughtfulness expressed in Mr. Neff's letter and applaud his efforts in helping those who are less fortunate. 
Christopher D. Ashby Holy Cross College 
Oct. 2, 1992 

Viewpoint
Monday, October 12, 1992 page 7 
Why can't football carry the core of ND values? 
"Reason to ground" about 
into thinking that we want Notre Dame football? Examine money for its own sake, into its underlying "core values"? forgetting that it takes money to That's a wonderful invitation achieve our aspirations. And from Stephen Zavestoski (The the true values underlying Observer, Sept. 29), and a football are so feebly worthy inquiry for this campus. articulated in this secular time 
But reason alone can't reveal that some people see in football the basis of our values, despite only power and dominance, Zavestoski's philosophical as­competition and capitalism, surances. It takes knowledge of selfishness and greed. But history, too, and the witness of power and dominance over memory, and the confirmation what? Competition and
something that moves closer to memory, and will. 
of personal experience. capitalism to what end?
perfection. Humans do conceive It was Bernard of Clairvaux in 
That's what I, a Domer during Selfishness and greed funneled
of perfection, and they do the twelfth century who defined 
Edward Vasta 

Leahy's days and a faculty into what Swiss bank accounts?
aspire toward it in every area of the divine image in terms that
Guest Columnist 

member since '58, wish to con­This university has no such
life, from the physical to the Notre Dame understands. St. 
tribute to this inquiry. Lot's of objectives.
spiritual. Bernard maintained that the 
Holy Cross priests taught and The true core values of Notre 
Because this fact is often re­divine image in humans is
this facultv in 1958, Father
coached in my student days, Dame, in fact, may in this age
quired to understand medieval precisely what we see at this
Hesburgh had focused on the
when in the area of physical seem corny, outdated, naive. At
literature, I sometimes remind University: the innate and
aspiration to excellence as the
education we had a department least, we don't hear a lot about
my students about what hap­irrepressive aspiration toward
single driving principle of aca­
and a curriculum, and con­them any more, when few CSCs
pens when you give a bunch of the spiritual, toward perfection, 
demic studies. And Lord knows, 
ferred a degree. It was the CSCs teach or coach, and when
kids something like toward the highest that can be
he is neither the first nor the
who established, preserved, someone like me almost blushes 
skateboards. Before you know conceived in the realms of
last Notre Dame priest to so
and articulated the values that to bring up the subject. Yet it's a
it, the kids are jumping over human life.
aspire. Nor has the aspiration
still underlie not only Notre wonderful fact, if what I hear is
curbs, skating up and down And in my view, Notre Dame's 
toward excellence in all re­
Dame football but all campus true, that the football team is
schoolyard steps, even skating football team manifests the
spects, including sports, been
sports. among the places where the
up and down alley walls. ground and principle of this
abandoned or forgotten here. 
Their main idea was, and still core values of this University
They start almost imme­University's culture and
But there's a deeper basis for 
is, as far as I know, "to educate still guide, intensely, the heart
diately to defy gravity and mo­activities no less than any other 
Notre Dame's aspirations, and
the whole person," physically, and mind as well as the hands. 
tion, to redesign the skate­enterprise. We aspire in aca­
this basis is the true and ulti­
intellectually, spiritually. Hu­I've never been to the team's
board's potential, and to sum­demics, too, and in social con­
mate ground of Notre Dame's
man life, after all, rises in an locker room, nor witnessed the
mon the will to achieve the cern, and in supporting each
outlook. It is on this ground that
unbroken continuum from the preparations and aftermath of
tricks they conceive. And some other's health and wellbeing,
experience, philosophy, and
physical to the spiritual. Hands, football games, but I'm told that
never stop trying to get better. but there's a sublime aptness,
faith meet. It is the conviction
head, and heart entail each prayer and mass and a
And so it goes in every sport, ironic to be sure, in the wild
that humans are created in the
other, and an education that is devotional spirit are right up
right on up to the olympics. and jocular cry of the football
image and likeness of God.
true to the nature of human life front in the team's practices. At
And at the spiritual end of fan: "God made Notre Dame
Philosophers and theologians
requires development in all this university, much devotion
human life, nuns and monks number one!"
have for centuries sought to
three respects. moves lots of people in lots of
master their own bodies, ex­There are indeed problems
define what in humans
More basically: the rising places, but that the game of
pand their minds to the limits of with Notre Dame football. We
constitutes the divine image.
continuum of human life, in this football, about which we are so
thought, purify their wills until don't like to be known only, or
They cite the faculty of reason, 
view, is at the core of human nothing less than God comes primarily, for having a great sensitive, itself provides one of
for example, or the rational
nature. It constitutes the those places-. Well, that's
into view. football team, because the core
capacity to recognize truth ("the 
interior principle that inspires worth cheering about, even if
These are the core values that values of this place enliven
divine spark" or "synderesis,"
humans always, necessarily, under your breath. 
make football, and everything much more. We don't like the
to use the technical term), or
and inevitably toward some­Edward Vasta is a professor
else at Notre Dame, strive for money-raising that goes on be­
the soul's trinity of reason,
thing better, something higher, in the English Department. 
excellence. When I arrived on cause it misleads some people 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Reader discusses 'Coming Out Day' 
Dear Editor: 
When I was a child, we loved to play hide-n-seek in the gath­ering dusk. We hid in bushes, behind trees and buildings, waiting to be found by the per­son who was 'it.· 
Sometimes we were so successful in hiding that we were never found, and the minutes would tick by like hours until we would hear the call, "Oli, oli, oxen free." (A phrase I have never known the literal meaning oO. 
Those of us still hidden would emerge in victory, knowing that we had won the game. Now it was safe to come out of our hiding places. 
Hiding from others (or God) has been with us since time immemorial. Adam and Eve knew their nakedness and hid from the face of God. The Apostle Peter hid the fact that he was a disciple of Jesus. 
Jews in Europe passed as Gentiles, in order to avoid per­secution and death by the Nazis. Light skinned "Black" South Africans attempted to pass as "Colored" under the Apartheid laws. And the list goes on. 
The common thread that unites all these varied attempts to be other than what one is, is fear. The fear of persecution, discrimination, and sometimes even prosecution and death. 
It is a recognition that, based on your identity, you will not be seen first and primarily as a human being. Rather, it is feared that the meaning which society attaches to your identity will be the first thing in people's minds. 
There is today at Notre Dame a sizeable population that is hiding. By conservative estimates it may be as high as 500-700 students, faculty, administration, personnel, priests, athletes and staff. What are they hiding? 
They find themselves attracted to people of the same gender, in other words, they are gay, lesbian or bi-sexual. 
The constant fear is that they will not be seen first and fore­most as individuals, as human beings, but will be labeled as homosexuals, with all the emo­tional and cultural baggage that our society gives to that label. 
Today is "National Coming Out Day." On some campuses around the country there will be large rallies, speeches and parades. On our campus there will mainly be silence. The si­lence is fear. 
I know of only two people who are able, and willing to take the risk, to openly identify themselves as gay or lesbian on campus. Where are the rest? In hiding, passing themselves off as your 'normal' heterosexual. 
Is there some secret shame that keeps us silent? Unfortu­nately, for some that is the case, for it is difficult not to in­ternalize the message of shame that society has imparted. For most, the silence is simply out of faar and prudence. 
To be 'out' means that one risks friendships, present and future employment, relationships with family members and social standing. (For those of you that believe that sexual orientation is a choice, ask yourself why anyone would want to risk such consequences?) 
And so, on this "Coming Out Day" we will largely remain si­lent and invisible, hidden from view. It is not yet safe to yell "Oli, oli, oxen free!" We cannot yet come out of hiding and run joyfully home-free. 
S.L. Miller Off-campus Oct. 6, 1992 

Political commentaries should be 'fact-filled' 
Dear Editor: 
On Oct. 5, Dialogue was pub­lished, titled "Democratic Mas­querades." However, after reading much of the magazine, I believe the title could have been appropriately shortened to "Masquerade." 
I am not much on politics, but when I do read politically­oriented articles, I enjoy fact­filled articles which unambiguously and clearly state an opinion worthy of my readership. 
Needless to say, I did not enjoy reading the skewed writing some may wish to call journalism witnessed in that issue of Dialogue. 
May I prove my point? "According to one graduate of the school most of the speakers and writers were anti-Chris­tian, anti-West and/or anti­male." Ex-squeeze me. Seen in "Editorial Thoughts..," this is a just example of an ambiguous and clearly unrelated state­ment. 
How many readers know the meaning of anti-West? Does this editor? By the way, who cares which speakers and writers were heard and read at this school. Do you (or does anyone) think that Mr. Clinton chose each of the writers and speakers at this school? 
In "Welfare: What does it solve?," it was stated that "nearly 40 percent of all poor households own their homes." The author of this article fails however to defme "poor." 
Should readers define "poor" as they wish? Is that "poor" in spirit or even "poor" in health? Use of words such as "probably" and "almost" con­vince me that this article could definitely stand to be rewritten with at least a few facts. 
"Despite their centrist rhetoric and moderate masks ... ," was another of those all too ambiguous statements seen in the Dialogue. Poetic words were used to "mask" meaningless phrases. 
To the writer of "Beyond the Smoke and Mirrors: The Hidden Liberalism of Clinton/Gore," I only wish to say one thing. Each political candidate hides things from the public. 
How many politicians do you really think believe everything that comes out of his/her mouth? Do not be naive. 
So before the Dialogue is pub­lished again, do some research. 
Tony Anderson Cavanaugh Hall Oct. 6, 1992 

Get to the point . • • • 
ii Viewpoint 
P.O. BoxQ 

ND,IN 46556 
---------------------------"-] 

Viewpoint
page 8 Monday, October 12, 1992 

Columbus' discovery was a 'momentous' event 
Today we will commemorate the SOOth anniversary of Christopher Columbus' arrival in America, and the beginning of the voyages of exploration of his Castilian followers. 
Two terms that I want to stress are commemorate and explorations-the clash of cul­tures that brought about the subjection of thousands of indigenous peoples in the Americas by a few hundred Europeans and their descen­dants is something hardly ap­propriate for celebration; Columbus and his followers did not discover anything, since there were already people in most of the areas that they ex­plored. On the other hand, Columbus' voyages and those of the Castilians are a fact of history, and a momentous one. 
A Spanish clergyman of the 16th century compared the dis­covery of America by the Euro­peans to the Incarnation of Je­sus Christ-worthy of being considered the dawn of a new age. For better or for worse, the Castilians made America part of western civilization, just as the Romans made Iberia part of the Greco-Homan world. 
The conquests of Rome were bloody. So were those of the Castilians in America. And there were American equiva­lents of the British Boadisea, of the Gaul Versingetorix, and of places 
in North Africa. I dare say the same thing about the conquests and settlement that brought about the presence of baroque monuments from the shores of Lake Titicaca, in the Andes, to San Luis Rey, in California. 
In his Verdadera historia de la conquista de Nueva Espana, 
Bernal Diaz del Castillo says that the Castilians came to America to gain souls for Christ, domains for their king, and to enrich themselves. Regardless of the intentions of the average Castilian conqueror or settler, we can say that all the above were in Columbus, the man who started the "empresa de Indias".This Italian navigator, after a long stay in Portugal, where he acquired his nautical skills, conceived a project to reach East Asia from Europe by crossing the Atlantic. He offered his 
Isabel and her husband, Fernando of Aragon, received Columbus' reports of discover­ies and of taking possession of far away islands, these Catholic Monarchs, requested from the pope(in those days presumed to have legal title over the world) the sole right to spread Chris­tianity in the lands "recently discovered". This papal "donatior was interpreted by Isabel and her successors as a right to conquer all non-Chris­
Rafael E. Tarrago 
Guest Columnist 

across the Atlantic. These claims were strengthened when her grandson Charles I of Castile became Charles I of the Holy Roman Empire, according to some the rightful ruler of the world. The accession of this Charles to the imperial throne linked the affairs of Castile and its "New World" extensions to the western and central European ambitions of his paternal family, the Habsburh. 
Columbus never meant to "discover" America, he stum­bled upon it. Even after the Portuguese had found a sea route to Asia rounding the coast of Africa, and made commercial contacts with the real India, he insisted that he had found a western route to Asia (although in none of the islands or the mainland that he explored nothing like a major Asian civi­lization had been found). Columbus died convinced that Cuba was a peninsula of China. It's successors, however, could tell the difference between what they had found and what the Portuguese were finding in another part of the world. 
But others did not give up their entrepreneurial hopes of reaching the Asian sources of the spices and exotic goods that to buy so dearly. This ambition made them continue the westward explorations. 
Since the Castilian Crown claimed that it had the right to intervene in American affairs on account of a mandate of the pope to introduce Christianity there, tile kings of Castile facili­tated the migration of priests and members of the religious orders to their new oversea domains. 
The influx of missionaries brought about book production and the introduction of the printing press in America. Many of these men studied native languages and composed grammars and dictionaries to teach those who came after them, while others studied the customs and religious beliefs of the conquered peoples in order to detect syncretism and prevent heresy among the new Christians, leaving written accounts of their findings. 
The first account of the conquests of the Castilians in America was La brevi-sima historia de Ia dl struccion de las Indias, a simple indictment of these conquests composed by Fr. Bartolome de las Casas in order to convince Crown Prince Philip (the future Philip II) of his duty to protect the conquered peoples, and not his well­reasoned, four vo-ume, Historia general de las lndias. 
of killings and epidemics, the Castilians in America left a trail of cities and books. 
I hope that this article is not seen as an apologia for the un­justifiable, but as an attempt to place in the context of the his­tory of humankind an event that took place, and to empha­size its momentousness. 
The times of the conquests of the Castilians in America were the times of the conquests of the French in Italy, of the Ottoman Turks in the Balkans, and of the English in Ireland. In our own 20th century we have witnesse many a bloody conquest, and true genocides. Today we call those who differ from as politically pinkos or fascists, depending on our views; and those who look different we call by very unkind names. I wonder, are we more open-minded and generous than the fierce, position-seeking Castilian conqueror who in an epic poem about his warring with a technically less developed people wrote, 
"I will sing not of damsels tender, Or charming knights in love; Neither of favors in Beauty's siege Won by assaults of gallantry; But of the valiant deeds and fame Of those who on surge-unsundered shores Bent the proud neck of Arauco's race To Spain's stern yoke by war. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Future of Native Americans should be as bright as a candlelight vigil 
Anniversary is a time to recall past and look to future 
Dear Editor: 
What follows may sound like it comes from 1492 or 1S92. It doesn't. It is the continuing history of the indigenous peo­ples of the continent of the Americas. It is life and death at the end of the 20th century. 
Tomas Diego Garcia, a Mixe Indian, was summarily exe­cuted in January 1992 by a squad of Mexican police officers and local gunmen in the com­munity of La Trinidad Yaveo, Mexico; two women were beaten with weapons and one state judicial police officer al­legedly put the barrel of his gun into the mouth of a five-year-old boy, saying he would kill him if he didn't stop crying. 
These are not isolated inci­dents nor exceptional cases of human rights violations against indigenous peoples in the Americas. In each case, no one was brought to justice for the crimes committed. 
In each case, there is apparent complicity of the security forces and government. In each case, the government has taken little or no interest. 
Indigenous leaders are tar­gets-people strengthening communities and culture, re­fusing to forget those made to "disappear" by security forces, disputing ownership of land and resources, demanding equality under the law and access to redress, and seeking an end to discrimination and deprivation. 
Whole communities and those most vulnerable-children, women, elders, the displaced, and those caught between two sides of the internal conflict­are targets. 
A worldwide human rights organization, Amnesty Interna­tional works on behalf of those 
denied  their  basic  human  
rights.  
With  over  30  years  of  

experience and more than 1,100,000 members in over lSO countries and territories, Amnesty International has be­come the representative for all people seeking international adherence to the 194 United Nations' Universal Declaration on Human Rights. The indige­nous peoples of the world, in­cluding 39 million people in the Americas, are victims of human rights violations who are often overlooked. 
They are descendents of populations which originally inhabited the geographical region to which the country belongs. Considering themselves distinct from the society that modernly prevails, they seek the maintenance of their ancestral heritage, their territories, and their ethnic identities for the continued ex­istence of their cultures. 
However, these native peoples are the victims of resettlement policies, detention, torture and repression because of economic interests and the struggle for land. 
As citizens of the United States, we must recognize that over two million Native Ameri­cans in our country are not ex­empt from these injustices. 
We must begin to exhibit the respect due these unique and enduring cultures. Through continued awareness, understanding and action an end to these many injustices can be achieved. 
On this SOOth commemora­tion of Columbus' landing in the Americas, Amnesty Interna­tional wishes to focus on past abuses and commit ourselves to work towards a better future. 
Please take some time to reflect on the current situation by visiting the picture displays in North and South Dining Halls as well as LaFortune. 
The Notre Dame chapter of Amnesty International will also be holding a candlelight vigil on the steps of the Administration Building this evening at 8:30. Together we can bring an end to these kind of human rights violations-1992 should not sound like 1492. 
Gwendolyn Holinka Katherine Whalen Amnesty International 
Oct. 6, 1992 
Dear Editor: 

As we all know, today marks the five-hundredth anniversary of Christopher Columbus' landing in the Americas. 
We, the members of Pax Christi-Notre Dame, realize that this date symbolizes differ­ent things for different people. 
Whether one views the quin­centenary as a memorial to "discovery," the "meeting of two cultures," or to "conquest," the domination of one culture over another, we feel it is important to call the Notre Dame community to an increased awareness of the human suffer­ing that has marked the history of our two continents. 
The past displacement of na­tive peoples from their home­lands, the implementation of slave labor, and the loss of countless lives on both sides demands recollection and com­passion. 
More immediately, we recognize that many of these past injustices continue to effect our present societies. Unspeakable poverty permeates not only the Native American reservations in our own land, but also the majority of the population in Latin America. 
Inequitable labor practices 
increase as big business pulls out of their North American in­dustrial centers in favor of hir­ing cheaper, more easily ma­nipulated workers south of the border. 
And violence, often due to racial and economic tension, still continues to tear us apart. Latin American theologian Gustavo Gutierrez has told us that the "five hundred years" is not a time to celebrate. 
As Christians, though, our re­sponse is not to level blame, create newer stereotypes, or wallow in guilt. 
Instead, we are called to reach out in solidarity and compassion, recalling where we came from and understanding where it is we can go. 
Please join us in prayer today as we hope for the reconcilia­tion that is so needed. 
Emily Neufeld Martin Kearney Lisa Lungren Paul Rowe Heather Rakoczy George F. Smith Ann Carson Kevin V. Heffernan Paul Perl 
Pax Christi-Notre Dame 
Oct. 8, 1992 

r-----------~----~--------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Accent 
Monday, October 12, 1992 page 9 
Esprit and Clair explore 150 years of Notre Dame 
By KENYA JOHNSON Esprit and Clair reveal the making of the Golden Dome, the Assistant Accent Editor hardships Father Sorin had to expansion of the Notre Dame face in starting Notre Dame, campus and the life of the 
Take a journey with Esprit such as money and winter (the students. and Clair through Notre Dame's same concerns of Notre Dame Esprit and Clair tell intriguing first 150 years of existence. student's today). tales that fascinate and humor 
Who are Esprit and Clair? More importantly they show their readers (be sure to check Esprit (e spre') is the spirit of the success of the newly out the story about guys Notre Dame-he's what makes founded university. Students practicing their social dance people strive for excellence. traveled from all around skills on each other before their And Clair? Well Clair (klar), is trading their farms, livestock, dances with girls-which by the the Clairvoyance, the vision of or building materials as way were not allowed until the Notre Dame, and she's always payment for tuition and late 1920's). looking ahead to what can be. board(tuition then was only And of course there's more 
Together Esprit and Clair $165) to have that "Notre Dame significant focus on the won­travel through the history and experience". derful world of Notre Dame traditions of Notre Dame in a Esprit and Clair continue with football: Knute Rockne, the new book titled "The Spirit and their story. They reveal inter­Gipper, the four horsemen, Vision of Notre Dame: The First esting accounts of Notre Dame Coach Leahy, the Irish Guards, 150 years." during the Civil War and World Coach Parseghian, the 
Written by Keith Kaczorek War I. Readers learn amazing Leprechaun, Coach Holtz, and and illustrated by David Griffin facts about the famous fire of eleven national championships. and Tom Gormady, "The Spirit 1879 that almost ended Notre Esprit and Clair cover it and Vision of Notre Dame," is Dame, the creation of Sacred all-all the way to recent delightful family reading. Heart Church, and the experiences with Father 
renowned Fighting Irish Foot­Hesburgh, Father Malloy, 
"The reading is about at the ball team. Stonehenge, the Institute for sixth grade level, but it's enter­International Peace Studies, tainment for the entire family," The Notre Dame football team and much more. said Keili Phelan, a representa­began with a terrible reputa­tive for LBCo. Publishing. "It's a tion, losing three times to Esprit and Clair definitely de­book for a bedtime story. It's a Michigan, explained Clair. The serve applause for their thor­living room coffee table book. first victory earned was against ough job of creatively exploring 
It's really suitable for anyone," Harvard School of Chicago the history of Notre Dame. she added. (who?) in 1888 and the first "This book lovingly depicts "The Spirit and Vision of out-of-town intercollegiate vic­the spirit and vision of Notre 
"One-hundred-fifty years of Notre Dame Bookstore, Saint Notre Dame," traces all the way tory for Notre Dame was Dame," said Hesburgh in his hardships and friendship. One­Mary's Inn, Marriott Bookshop,back to the childhood days of against Northwestern in 1899. foreword of the book. "The hundred-fifty years of change and various bookstores 
Father Edward Frederick Sorin, Esprit and Clair also give a spirit of Notre Dame is what and growth. One-hundred-fifty throughout the Michiana/Souththe founder of Notre Dame. humorous account of how the makes us strive for excellence years of achievement and ex­Bend area for $28 (hardbound)Esprit and Clair travel with "Fighting Irish" name came into in all we do. The vision gives cellence. One-hundred-fifty and $18.95 (paperback). 
Father Sorin and six brothers existence. What is it? Read the direction of that spirit," he years of spirit and vision," con­Also available are "Esprit and 
on their 3 7 day cruise from book. added. cludes the book. Clair's Notre Dame Fun Book" France to New York and the 24 And so the two characters Everything anyone wanted to "The Spirit and Vision of for $3.95 and "Esprit and 
day journey from New York to move into the 20th century with know about Notre Dame in the 
Notre Dame: The First 150 Clair's Notre Dame Coloring
Indiana. · wonderful details about the past 150 years is in this book. 
Years," is available at The Book" for $6.95 

Contemporary Art 
Modern day issues addressed in Saint Mary's exhibit 
By CLAUDIA TUDISCO but also be interpreted by the One specific piece had a chain Accent Writer mind. connecting two of these balls so One of her pieces, "Poisonous that if one rolled the other did 
The way in which artwork has Legacy," depicts a man wearing not. He said he wanted to show become a well known way of an oxygen mask with a deterio­how "one is the dependent on expressing a contemporary rating view of the land in the the other." message is expressed in the background. Tyrrell says she His next series exhibited large latest artworks exhibited at St. wants people to realize how objects in small rooms. These Mary's Moreau Gallery from "waste chemicals have lead to objects were filled with sand so Oct. 9 to Nov. 6. lethal toxic pollution" and the as not to fall over. At times peo­
Featured are tapestries by Lil­inevitable truth that "the future ple could fit into these ian Tyrrell and sculptures by generation must deal with the sculptures and if touched by Brinsley Tyrrell, both of whom results." others, they would move are English artists. Another piece is based on the slightly. "It was funny to see 
For Lilian Tyrrell it all began terrorist act of the 1972 people's reactions because in 1975. Never having attended Olympics, which she says everybody touches sculptures," art school, she began weaving "depicts the horror and fear he said. a series of tapestries based on that people have for individuals barns. who will kill or maim innocent Presently, Tyrrell is a profes­
bystanders in order to publicize sor at Kent State University in 
In many of these works, she their political objectives." Ohio. He now feels that the tra­was able to vividly express the The old news presented in the ditional art is important for his true sense of the moment by tapestries is not a worry for students. "Working from human "capturing dramatic, powerful Tyrrell. She feels the picture figure is both enormous, fun to nature displays in violent may be specific, but the subject do, and terrific training," he storms, forest fires, and matter is much broader. It is said. whirling tornadoes," said important to realize that the His artworks are presented in Tyrrell. series is based on the human many cities, including Akron 
Her latest series, the " Disas­condition. and Cincinnatti. In each of 
ter Series," took a turn toward For Brinsley Tyrrell, after do­these cities, his works are a a more political sjde. She began ing traditional, figurative work unique representations of the in 1986 and has continued to in art school, he spent years cities' histories. 
the present. This series depicts trying to develop work that In the latest series, his totem­the world-wide disasters that interested him. like sculptures are based on the He feels his artwork is unique The Gallery hours are 10have occured. The vivid colors His first sculptures were of ability to string all shapes and and has no specific meaning. a.m. to noon and 1 to 4 p.m.
and descriptive style brings the glass fiber balls with lead forms together. He has coated Tyrrell stated that it is up to the Monday Through Friday; 10reality of the tragedies to the weights on the bottom. He these pieces with a mixture of interpretation of the viewers; a.m. to noon on Saturday and 1viewers. wanted his art to be "against powders of different types of "the meanings there-you may to 3 p.m. on Sunday. Admission Each of her pieces is not only formal objection in pedestal metal. giving them a natural be right or you may be wrong." is free. 
meant to be admired by the eye, with all implications," he said. look. 

---------------------------------------~------------~--------..----------~~----------~----~----------------. 
page 10 The Observer Monday, October 12, 1992 
be able to adapt quickly to the 
Faustmann leads Notre Dame assault in Classic
new rigors and challenges of
Holtz 

the Oval Office. Special to The Observer doubles final over Wendy senior Eniko Bende won the C Crabtree and Holyn Lord of Flight singles final over Allison
continued from page 16 

Lou could be a leader for the Junior Christy Faustmann Notre Dame, 6-3, 6-2. Schlonsky of Michigan 6-3, 6-1. 
nineties--a man who could won the B Flight singles and A Tholen and Faustmann are In C Flight doubles action, the he would always be ready to guide the United States into the Flight doubles titles Sunday as ranked 17th in the country in Irish team of Laura Schwab and answer his critics with a cute, twenty-first century. His regime the three-day Eck Tennis Clas­the latest Intercollegiate Tennis Meredith Siegfried lost in the nonsensical comment, that might remind us of those sic conlcuded. Association rankings. finals to Lissa Kimmel and Sara 
trademark smug smirk autocratic days at the helm of Faustmann defeated team­In A Flight singles action, Marshack of Illinios, 8-3. 
sneaking across his face. And the Notre Dame football mate Lisa Tholen 6-3, 4-6, 6-2 Irish senior Melissa Harris lost Notre Dame's Bende and Sh­even though politics have never program, but at least he in the B finals while she teamed to Lindsey Nimmo in the finals erri Vitale won the B Flight been his game, he would surely wouldn't break his promises. with Tholen to win the A 3-6, 7-5, 6-1 while Notre Dame doubles consolation. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for neX1-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
HELP R.T. BUS TICK. to CLEVELAND Need 4 G.A. tickets to BYU Game 2 sets married st tixs 277-6894 Closets are for clothes: come out, Need ride to PH ILLY area for Oct. B.O. X2862 CALL -1851-come out, where-ever you are!NOTICES Break $$$$$$$$$$ 
Please call Tom x1232 FOR SALE: STUDENT TICKET HELP!!! DILLON BASEBALL: ATIENTION TICKETS BQOK CALL MEGAN X4667 I NEED 1 GA For more information and Drummer or Bassist FOR BYU If it wasn't for us "pussies," you assistance regarding the Want to PLAY? -1887 NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX Wanted: 1 BYU GA. mofos would be 0-6, so eat ass! investigation of financing, business CALL JOE OR JAY X1760 Call Mary x3427 TIM x2763 opportunities and work-at-home EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our $$$$$$$$$$ STANFORD & KEENAN 
opportunities, THE OBSERVER circulars!. .. Begin NOWI ...FREE I NEED NO FOOTBALL ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY urges its readers to contact the packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box TJCKETS.272-6306 HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT NO Alum will pay good price for 4 Loving young couple want to adopt Better Business Bureau of 4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. 618-439-3338. BYU GA tix. Call (708) 359-2727 baby. Mom a teacher will stay home Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Mon-Fri 9-5. Ask for Mitch. full time. Call Laura/Brian collect Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637-I AM A 21 YR. OLD COLLEGE Please help!!! I'm in DESPERATE Needed 4tickets Penn State. Call 708-482-7576 or 312-220-3194 4200: or call the BBB at 219-277-STUDENT EMPLOYED BY need of Penn State GA's ..... 1-800-922-BEAR. No one understands how important 9121 or 800-439-5313 STUDENT PAINTERS. I'VE BEEN it is for me to get: ENOUGH WITH THIS DITKA, 
PROMOTED TO EXEC. POSITION Call Ann 284-5241 ALREADY!! WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 AND NEED MANAGERS FOR GA tickets for the BC game. He's 2-3, the Bears are in third 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. place in the Central Division behind TYPING ELKHART. MICH. CITY, LAPORTE, $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 1 BC GA, Call Digger at x1052 Minnesota and Tampa Bay (TAMPA 287-4082 NILES, THREE PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston College DAVE, x4506 BAY?!) and haven't been to the 
RIVERS/SCHOOLCRAFT. SALES GAs or student tix. Call Jill@ x4758 Super Bowl since 1986! Typing 237-1949 EXP. PREFERRED, BUT NOT NESS. or x4721. PERSONAL Besides, he doesn't handle Spee-Dee Word processing MUST HAVE GREAT ADD. AND $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ disappointment in a grown-up 
WORK HARD. AVG. EARNINGS HeyNiff manner (just ask Jim Harbaugh). WordWorks Typing Service 8.000. CALL 1-800-543-3793 ASK 1 NEED PENN STATE TIX-call Sam WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR Term papers, dissertations, theses FOR TOM SMITH. x4842 GOOD PENN ST GA"s 2773097 OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES !! ! ! ! I !! ! I ! ! 277-7406 
Riders needed for October break. Need One Ticket For Boston $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. Hobbes is still not 21, too bad However, only one way between College!!! Call 273-2967!!! I NEED 2 PENN STATE GA's !! family can provide financial some day you'll drink with us 
school and Baton Rouge-my Betsy 273-1792 (leave message) security, excellent education and parents are making me fly back. •••••••••••*HEY!''*•••••••••••• $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ wonderful future for your baby. !!!!!!!!!!!! Lost: Dark green pullover jacket in Please call Anne 284-4425. I Need Tickets Please let us help you in this South Dining Hall NEED BC TICKETS IN BIG WAY! difficult time. Confidential and legal. I STILL NEED BC GA'S IN A BIG, Chad x1593 COLUMBIA MISSOURI OR BUST 7 Penn State GA's DEREK SCHNACK X1374 Medical expenses paid. Collect BAD WAY THE THREAT OF FOR OCT. BREAK I NEED A RIDE 2 BC GA's anytime. (818) 246-1763 PHYSICAL DANGER IS IMMINENT LOST: Black and Gold Crucifix TO COLUMBIA OR ST. LOUIS­In need of two BC GAs. I have$$. IF I DO NOT COME THROUGH (Broken from Chain) If found AIRPORT CALL CHRIS 273-8355 If You Got' em Call JOCIE x3783 Please call me at x3891. LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes FOR MY "FRIENDS." please call Bill x1131 e'·ery Sat. & Sun. at 8:00am Going my way? Stopping in or WANTED 3 GA's NO VS BYU Eastern Time. Train and jump the Please save my life. BIG REWARD, no questions asked driving through, DESPERATELY Will trade 4 BYU tix for 2 BC tix and 10/24 CALL COLLECT 215-355-same day. Modern equipment ant Jenn x4059 For my class ring lost 1 0 /1. If need a ride to MEMPHIS, TN for 2 Penn St tix. Call (708)665-1827. 7131 RON training programs. Licensed found, please call Andrew October break!! Will pay half the instructors. FFI call Skydive saw the mail truck and thought of 283-4076. gas and all tolls! Kelly 284-5114 In Need of TICKETS NEEDED-10 plus BYU Hastings (616) 948-2665. you! BC GA's-Dan #1852 $$4U ..*Lost on North Quad**' I need a ride back from Atlanta after tickets Loving Catholic family longing to Dear Margaret Jarc, My roommate has locked me out of October Break from someone who (as many as humanly possible) California ALUM desperate for adopt. We're concerned about you the room and I can't get back in is NOT coming back for the game. call Aileen X4292 Penn State GAs Top$. Pis lv mess. at this difficult time. Let's help each Among your teammates, without my keys. They're on a Please call me 284-5084. (( other. Gloria 818-248-4890. You definitely rule. leather string, #407. Will trade two BC G.A.'s for two (415)597-2319 You're the baddest of the bad NEED a ride to DETROIT on 10/16 BYU tix Call277-8263 HELP! STRANDED GRACE And the coolest of the cool. Also, I lost a silver Notre Dame call Jeff@ x1138 Need 15 BYU GA's! FRESHMAN NEEDS A RIDE TO medal on a silver chain which -NEED 2 BYU GA'S­289-7875 PHILLY AREA FOR FALL BREAK Come over to v1sit us. belonged to my grandfather when Earn Free Spring Break Trips & PARENTS ON 1800 MILE TRIP TO WILL SPLIT TOLLS, GAS, TICK­We bring good luck he went here. It says No. 141 on $2500 Selling Spring Break SEE ONE GAME. WILL PAY &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&& ETS AND BAIL!!! X1658 'Cause we're the boys the back. I know it looks really Packages To Bahamas, Mexico, PRICE FOR TIX that like to do crossword puzzles. cool, but it means a lot to me. I'll Jamaica, Florida! Best Trips & CHRIS x1463 Help me out, Help me out Driving to D.C. area for Fall Break? give you money, whatever. just give Prices! 1-800-678-6386. I will help drive and split cost of Love, it back. MATI x1530 !@#$%"&'()!@#$%"&*()!@#$%"&* Because Because gas. Call John at x3349 Your little freshmen buddies! 
ILOST & FOUND I 

Lost: Water Supply and Sewage FOR RENT () My parents, sisters and HELP! NEED A RIDE TO TWIN Dear Mr. and Mrs. Plutnicki, Book (McGhee. 6th ed.) Blue-BYU grandparents are coming for BYU. CITIES-OCT. BREAK. WILL PAY 4 Don't believe anything you hear If found, contact Matt at 277-8178. SUNNY, SPACIOUS, close, 1 BR in BYU They would like to see one game GAS & TOLLS. 284-5157 about a bar. a fake 10, two nights in Midterms are coming! historic dist. 325 inc. all uti!. 234-BYU together before I graduate. a jail cell, a $500 fine, probation, or 
7667 lv. mess. buy my BYU stud. ticket! PLEASE offer your B Y U GAs MOM, PATMAN, JULIE, WILLY, Moses· finger. HELP!!!!! I LOST A THIN GOLD BYU tome. ZHACK AND JACKIE: Love. your son. Digger. BRACELET MADE OF HEARTS. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY BYU Do You like My Gift To You?? ...It was a present from my 219-291-7153 BYU Thank you for your help. I Miss You!!! Love, AMY TOPHER IS NOT ALLOWED TO GO boyfriend and one of my most Joe G. x 1161 CAMPING AND THAT IS FINAL. sentimental possessions. If you SECLUDED 4BR. 2BATH COUNTRY AMY x 4530 HEY KEENAN GUYS!!!!! find it, will you please do the HOME NEAR CAMPUS. 4 MEN OR !@#$%"&*()!@#$%"&*()!@#$%"&* &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&& Do you want ..FREE FOOD*..? BUYING ALL GAs kindest thing you'll have ever done 4 WOMEN. $210 MONTH PER. () Do you want ..25 HOT P.E. BUYING ALL GAs and return it to me? I promise a PERSON, LEASE. DEPOSIT. 272-WILLING TO TRADE: WOMEN"? OK-this is what to do: reward to the person who places 0806. WANTED: I HAVE 1 BC GA AND NEED 1 BYU 1. Go find the sign-up outside BoB 287-9118 that bracelet back in 2-4 BYU GA's GA -call Darrell 273-2873 Brother Bonaventure's Room. my hands! Thanks! Call Marie X3818 2. Sign up for the World Hunger 
COLLEEN LYNN FOR SALE NEED 5 PSU, GA or STUDENT Awareness Meal on Oct. 28th 238 WALSH NEED 2 BC GA's & 2 PS GA's­& 3. Come to the CSC on Oct. 28th TOP ELEVEN QUOTES FROM X4528 CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED JOSH X4107-leave message A POOL TABLE at 5pm. for free food and hot JULIE'S 21 ST BIRTHDAY!!!! 
WANTED 
89 MERCEDES ........ $200 CALL MATI@ 233-8514 women . That's it! Just do it! 86VW. ..$50 Need Penn St. Ga's -big $$$ 11. If it was up to me prohibition 87 MERCEDES .......... $100 Lisa 288-5196 Need to trade 2 BC GA's for 2 BYU Lisa Dunn it's going to be a long would be on again • 
65 MUSTANG ............. $ 50 GA's Call Jim at232-2107-after year... LOVE-THE BIG RED 10. Is this bag from Martin's or ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT­Choose from thousands starting @@@@@@@@@@@@@ 10:00pm. MACHINE Kroger's? -1 don't know Jules-They fisheries. Earn $5000+/month. Free $25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour didn't ask me if I wanted paper or transportation! Room & Board! Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright FOR SALE Do you need BYU or Penn State hi Jeanne plastic! Over 8000 openings. No #IN11KJC. FOR SALE Student tickets? Call Kerry x3619 9. I was talking like a champion experience necessary. Male or CJ...CM...SYR? . .WTHH! 8. Tequila, I can't eat Female. For employment program IBM COMPATIBLE SOFTWARE: We cannot go to the BYU game, NEED 4 BYU GA's HEATHER 284-7. The cream won't come out call Student Employment Services $2 EACH. so we are selling our stu tix. Please 4369 My dearest Floozy, 6. My cigarette hasn't been this at1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584. WANTED: COMPUTERS. take advantage our misfortune. HAPPY empty in my life 
1530 WESTERN AVE., SB. Thank you for your help. I need 4 BYU GA's in a bad way. 18th 5. I don't know how to do it 
287-7550. WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!! CALIENTE 4. You can't tell from that position­$$$$ FREE TRAVEL AND RESUME Mike 283-1161 Chris 273-8470 INCREDIBLE what position can I tell from ? EXPERIENCE!! MacPius, 2.5 meg RAM, carrying BIRTHDAY!!! 3. Hey Jules, the only thing you Individuals and Student case. ext. BOOk drive, ext 20 meg @@@@@@@@@@@@@ LOVE, can get arrested for now is a felony­Organizations wanted to promote HD, modem, lmagewriter. Asking I'LL DO ANYTHING! for 1 or 2 GAs 1-wish-1-was-F Well, I'll commit that soon. SPRING BREAK, call the nation's 500. Call 273 9275. IT'S GOING TO BE REALLY COLD to B.C. Lisa 284-5080. 2. I have this comb from leader. Inter-Campus Programs BY NOV. 21 AROUND HERE. LET Dear Princess Bride Groupie, yesterday, I can't find it 1-800-327-6013. For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call ME PAY YOU TO SIT IN THE Need BC GA's Come over anytime to get a 1 . Dick, Dick go away 
Rita Delivery on Campus COMFORT OF YOUR ROOM OR Joe#1112 quick fix. We know that you are NEED TO GET TO HOUSTON, 234-6524 FAVORITE BAR-ALL YOU HAVE fiending. TEXAS, or anywhere along the way TO DO IS GIVE ME YOUR PENN FOR SALE!!!! As you wish, over October Break? We need a TWO TICKETS TO NEWARK STATE STUDENT TICKET--WHAT the stumbling fools. rider/driver to help drive rental car. BETWEEN NOV. 22-NOV. 27. $150 A GEAT DEAL!!! TWO MARRIED STUDENT Must be atleast21yrs old to drive EACH. 288-9658. CALL RICH AT x1005 TICKET BOOKS Physician and Attorney wish to Kara, rental car. Costs will be relatively (no signatures needed) provide loving home for your child Here's to many more cookie­inexpensive. MAC SE/20 & lmagewriter II I have 2 50 yd line BYU GAs & CHEAP TICKETS FOR FRIENDS filled with hugs, kisses, laughter. dough ice cream late nights/early Please call Jill, Carrie, or Allison at Softwares and more. $1000 2 BC GAs. I'm looking to trade OR FAMILY Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy mornings! You're a champ! x4758 ASAP if interested!!!! Caii239-8713Wor 271-1507H for any Penn St. GAs. Joe x1395 CALL BILL AT 299-1845 Collect (708) 655-3124. Love, Cyn & Melis 
--~--------------­

page 11 

responsibility'-that was all our attitudes when it came time to play." 
Rick Mirer also awakened from the Cardinal nightmare with a vengeance, or at least with a solid performance-9-of-16 for 182 yards and two TO's. Mirer also relied on his quickness to pick up several key first-downs, running seven times for 45 yards. 
Notre Dame gave a strong defensive effort throughout, led by the nose-tackle tandem of Jim Flannigan and Oliver Gibson. They registered five tackles apiece, combining with linebackers Demetrius DuBose (seven tackles) and Karmeleeyah McGill (six) to plug up Pitt's rushing game. 
"After the first, we really shut down the run well," stated Holtz, whose defense allowed only 81 yards on 32 carries. 
Freshman Bobby Taylor started in place of the injured Greg Lane at cornerback. The 6-foot-4 Taylor blanketed the Panthers stand-out wide­outs Dietrich Jells and Chris Bouyer, registering four tackles and a pass broken up. Seniors Jeff Burris and Tom Carter each picked off passes. 
Pitt's only two TO's came from the arm of quarterback Alex Van Pelt. The senior continued his statistical assault against the Irish, connecting on 25-of-42 attempts for 246 yards. 
Starting for the Panthers since freshman year, Van Pelt lead all quarterbacks against Notre Dame with 75-for-120 with 763 yards coming into the game. But his fourth effort produced just two scores, touchdown passes to Jells in the third and Chad Askew in the fourth. 
Monday, October 12, 1992 
Irish jump to 
12th; UW holds 
off #2 Miami 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame jumped one spot to No. 12 in this week's Associated Press Top 25 after Saturday's 52-21 win over Pittsburgh. 
Stanford, who beat the Irish last week, improved three spots to No. 8 after a dominat­ing UCLA. 
The Washington Huskies held on to first place by the skin of their teeth. 
Miami, coming off two con­secutive wins against Top 10 teams, tied the Huskies with 30 1/2 first place votes, but Washington collected one more total point than the Hurricanes to hang on to the top spot. 
Penn State heads a list of fu­ture Irish opponents in the poll after a loss to Miami sent them down two spots to No. 9. Other ranked teams ahead for Notre Dame include No. 18 USC and No. 20 Boston College. 
Club 23 
On Notre Dame and S.R.23 
Now Club 23 Subs! FREE Delivery 
234-4015 
Open 4 p.m. -2 a.m. Call to find out what's going on TONIGHT 
Mon Call us! Tues Sub Special -$2°0 7" Subs Wed Call us! (Or save the quarter-you'll need it) Thu Go "Around the World" with us plus Pat Smith and Company Fri Live Music with WAY PAST TENSE Sat Live Music with WEB OF LIES 
No Matter Which Direction You Take For Your Fall Break Make Your First Stop•.• 

On US 31 Between Douglas and Cleveland Roads 
271--7767 
The Observer 

Win 
continued from page 16 
period. 
On second down, Becton broke one for 27 yards off left tackle. Becton, who gained 66 yards on eight carries, runs with a deceiving style. 
"He's the slowest guy I've ever coached who gets that many big plays,n says Holtz of the sophomore. 
Three plays later, back-up quarterback McDougal connected to Mayes on a 31-yard touchdown strike. McDougal remains a perfect 4-for-4 in the air this season with an incredible three TD's. Equally proficient is Mayes, who has gone 

~·iii'
for the distance in each 
Alex Van Pelt
of his three catches. 
Tight-end Oscar McBride, who has now made four of his five catches in the end-zone, latched onto a Mirer pass from a yard out at the 11:41 mark in the second quarter. 
Mayes explained the heightened level of intensity among the Irish in making the most of a season with the national championship no longer in sight. 
"It's important for the players to be able to rally," said Mayes. '"You've got to make it your 
Notre Dame softball ends fall season 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame varsity soft­ball team concluded its fall ex­hibition season on a high note Saturday with two victories in a five team round-robin invita­tional tournament. 
Finishing the season with an 8-2 record, the Irish women captured 15-0 and 3-2 wins over Northeastern Illinois and Xavier, respectively. 
The Irish were led in the 
opening game by first year pitcher Kara Brandenburger, who threw all seven shutout innings in the 15-0 defeat of Northeastern Illinois. The Irish maintained a relentless offensive attack throughout the game, as every player in the line-up got at least one hit. 
The Irish had a much more difficult time in their second against Xavier. Notre Dame battled until the end, resulting in a 3-2 victory. 
"We were· pressing," said 
Happy 21~ Birthday To the best lefty batter in Boulder (and pitcher too!) Thanks for the memories ... Love your Fan Club 


This Week Only 
$4°0 OFF 
On A Full Service Oil Change 
Full Service Oil Change Includes 
1. 
Oil Change Up to 6 Quarts 

2. 
Oil Filter 

3. 
Complete Chassis Lubrication 

4. 
Courtesy Checks and Fills Hours 


Monday 8--7 Tues .. Fri 8--6 Sat 8--5 Closed Sunday 
head coach Liz Miller. "It was tough to get into focus. We tend to panic when we fall behind." 
After giving up an early run in the first inning, the Irish re­sponded by scoring twice in the fourth to take a 2-1 lead. The two teams exchanged runs once more before Notre Dame could claim its win. 
Senior co-captain Staci Alford, who had not pitched in three weeks, continually got stronger en route to her complete game victory. 
Although the Irish were very pleased with their fall exhibi­tion record, producing wins was not their main objective. They tried to concern themselves with preparing for the upcoming season. 
"We try people at new posi­tions and do a lot of experi­menting to see what they can do," Miller said in regards to the fall season. 
Along with focusing heavily on basic fundamentals, the team tries to find backup posi­tions for all players in order to develop greater team depth. 
The Irish also worked on ad­justing to a new ball which will be used in regulation games for the first time this year. The ball is fluorescent yellow with or­ange seems, and its core is made of a different material which makes it more lively. It was designed this way because it will lead to more home runs and runs scored, thus make softball much more interesting for spectators. 
In its fifth year as a varsity sport, the softball program is now going into its "second phase", according to Miller. By this she means that the Irish have moved to a higher level than past teams in terms of tal­ent and level of competition. 
The team is eagerly waiting for the regular season to arrive this spring in order to display its improvement to both its op­ponents and to the Notre Dame community. 
Captain Ron PG13 
5:00, 7:30, 9:30 
Hero PG13 
4:30. 7:00. 9:30 
The Last of the Mohicans A 
4:45, 7:15. 9:45 

.....------~-­
page 12 The Observer Monday, October 12, 1992 
-------------------------------------------~----~-----------­

The Observer/ Pat McHugh The Observer/ Pat McHugh Rick Mirer was 9 for 16 passing, for 182 yards and two touchdowns. Kevin McDougal led the second-team offense to a touchdown in its only series in the first half. 

The Observer/ Pat McHugh The Observer/ Pat McHugh Wide receiver Adrian Jarrell (1 0) makes a 20 yard reception in the first half. Reggie Brooks added 84 yards rushing despite a bruised hip. 

Monday, October 12, 1992 The Observer 
,,, ····· ·il~itba~k Rick Mirer threw ··Ttavis Dam after a:34~y61'9;re~tGame Notes ••.iif. q t~l\9~~Q'\:Vll passestqwave K. ception ip .•tpe Utlh .• ~r· c+w• •••into sole possession of first . Pitt's Da-yis (iu . ·t<t , ... a 
By RICH KURZ & JIM VOGL Sports Writers 
As if the Notre Dame football 
team didn't have enough re­
minders of last week's loss to 
Stanford, the Pitt student body 
reminded them. 
When the Irish entered the 
stadium. a Panther fan held a 
sign in front of them reading, 
"Stanford: 33-16." Security 
guards tried to get the sign-
holder away, but Holtz wanted 
to see the sign up close. . "I thought our players 
needed to see it," Holtz ex­
plaiDed, adding that he thought 
it affected him more than it did 
the team. 
Record setting day... .; 
The Irish set a couple of all~ 
time records against Pitt; 
place on the career touchdown •·•···. head~on collis • but wound 
pass list atNotre Dame. 
Coming into the game, Mirer was tied V\lith Joe Theismann, who wenf'on to a Super Bowi 
championship in the NFL, With 31 touchdowns. His touchdown pass to Oscar McBride with 
11:41 .'left hi the first half moved him into the lead. 
The ensuing point-after at­tempt, converted by Craig Hentrich, gave Hentricb 248 points for his career, the most ever by an Irish kicker. Four more P~T's and afield goal put him at 255 points, good for second place on the all-time list; behind Allen Pinkett. 
The DaviS Connection... X-rays on, Pitt's Bill Davis were negative. Davis suffered a 
up being carried off the.. field.. strapped to a stretcher. · · 
The Squib;.. · •;1!.Wmi!WH;:•i•:·iih@r . 
After his team cut the lrisp lead to 42-21 with $i5!} remaining in tl~e .fourth quarter,. Panther head c~1;\C;~ Paul Hackett hoped to mount a comeback. He called on ju,nlot Sean Conley to execute an o side kick. 
Lou Holtz, in turn, called. on Rick Miter as a part of the all~ hands return team. Conley's kick hit the turf and popp)d. Jn the air right at the 45 yard­line. And just when Hackett thought the ball WO'\}ld. ])~ caught in the air bY a Pitt teammate, Miter tipped ito\J:t ofbi~ hands. AdrianJarrell 
bruised neck offthe krtee"'of ;cilll;Iei'tly jump:ed oil the ball~ 
L-------------~----~-------------­
OPEN AUDITIONS!!!! 
roR TI-IE 

ST. ED'S PRODUCfJON OF 
Out of the Frying 
Pan 

(A COMEDY IN THREE ACTS) 
will be held this coming Tuesday and Wednesday (Oct.I3 & 14) from 9-ll pm tn Room 123 Nieuwland 
No preparation necessary!! 
lJfcoming Events 
MONQAY.OCTOBER12 General Information Session "CHOOSING A GRADUATE SCHOOL IN INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS" Representatives from: School of Inti. & 
Public Affairs, Columbia U.; School of Foreign Service, Georgetown; Nitze School of Advanced Inti. Studies, Johns Hopkins; Woodrow Wilson School of Public & Inti. Affairs, Princeton; Fletcher School of Law & Diplomacy, Tufts University 
2:00-4:00 p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Lecture DR. RAN KOCHAN Chairman, Culture and Education 
Center, General Federation of Israeli Labor (Histadrut) "NEW DIRECTIONS IN 
ISRAELI POLITICS: THEIR IMPLICATIONS FOR THE PEACE TALKS" 7:00p.m. -Hesb. Ctr. Aud. 
INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAl
111111 ~N~!~~o;~?!:~ 
page 13 


Observer file photo Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz was all smiles after Saturday's win. 
Old style offense, new defense shine 
By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 
Last week's loss to Stanford forced Irish coach Lou Holtz to rethink the way his team was moving. In the past week, he has decided to get back to ba­sics, while at the same time adding new ideas into the mix. 
Versus Pitt, both of those facets were obvious. Notre Dame went back to what Holtz considers its strength-the running game-and gave the second-team offense a chance to shine in the first half. Even the defense had some new wrinkles, making the "new" Irish look an awful lot like the Irish of years past. 
After passing the ball 38 times against Stanford, the Irish pounded Pitt on the ground, driving for 308 yards on 48 attempts. The Killer B's lead the way. 
Jerome Bettis went for 94 yards on 13 carries and scored three touchdowns. Reggie Brooks went for 84 and Lee Becton, in a starting role be­cause of a slight injury to Brooks, carried the ball for 66 \ (lrds. The backfield by com­mittee has returned. 
The defense had a slightly new look as well. Instead of the now familiar five down lineman and two linebackers, the Notre Dame defensive scheme re­verted to a 4-3 scheme. Demetrius DuBose was made an outside linebacker, as was Karmaleeyah McGill, with An­thony Peterson and Brian Rati­gan splitting time at the middle­linebacker spot. 
The result? The Panthers' running game was shut down. Pitt managed only 81 net yards on the ground on 32 attempts, for a 2.5 yard average. That average wasn't helped by five tackles for losses by the Irish defense. 
Pitt did gain 252 yards through the air, but it took them 46 attempts to do so. The Irish blitzed more, and the defensive line got more penetration than in past games, forcing Pitt quarterback Alex Van Pelt to hurry a number of passes. 
The Panthers got 333 yards of total offense, but it took them 78 plays to do so. Notre Dame pressure forced the Panthers into two interceptions, one each by Tom Carter and Jeff Burris. 
"We play each game, and try to get better every week," said DuBose. "The defense is slowly but surely improving, but we still have to concentrate on little things." 
Even Holtz' new plan of in­serting the second-team offense 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Assit. Saint Mary's Editor 
Contact Anna Marie Tabor at 239-5303 or 284-5440 for more information. 
\ Forest Serv1ce and your State Forester t 
NOTRE DAME AIDS AWARENESS -You Can Make a Difference In The AIDS Crisis! 
..

Will Hold Its Meeting Today Where: Foster Room in LaFortune When: 7:00 p.m. All New Members Are Welcome 
in the game in the first half came up smelling like roses. 
The reserve offensive line was as successful as the starters in punching holes in the Pitt defense. In the first three plays, Becton gained a total of 32 yards. After two yards up the middle by fullback Ray Zellars, quarterback Kevin McDougal showed promise for next season. 
Scrambling, and escaping tacklers, McDougal hit fresh­man wide-out Derrick Mayes, who broke free from a defender for a 31-yard touchdown. Experiment successful. 
"It's important for (the sec­ond-team) to play, to be able to rally around each other," said Mayes. "'Make it your respon­sibility' was all of our attitudes when it came time to play." 
There is only one area of con­cern that wasn't entirely ad­dressed, and that was the re­liance on the big play. But when an offense as potent as Notre Dame's can be faces as a defense as weak as Pitt's can be, there may be no helping getting big plays. 
Just because· Holtz said he doesn't want to rely on big plays does not mean that he won't take the points. The most time-consuming scoring drive for the Irish was 3:34, and the Panthers won the time of pos­session battle by almost 10 minutes, 34:10 to 25:50. But Holtz isn't too worried. 
"I don't think ball possession is important, except when it's who keeps it at the end of the game," Holtz said. 
If getting back to basics is stopping their opponent's run­ning game. holding on the football and scoring 52 points, the Irish shouldn't have too many worries the rest of the way. 
It Puhlk Serv1ce ofthe Ad.Council. the U.SDA
• 


r---------------------------------------------------------~----­
page 14 The Observer 
Long Beach State earns invitational title 

By DAN PIER Sports Writer 

Though the Notre Dame women's volleyball team could not capture this weekend's Golden Dome Invitational championship, the Irish learned quite a lot this weekend. And with the midseason report in, the team is getting an A so far. 
Notre Dame placed second behind third-ranked Long Beach State, who won the tournament's final match over the Irish on Saturday. Notre Dame's first home loss of the season came after two victories, over Florida State on Friday and Pittsburgh on Saturday afternoon, completing their home winning streak at ten. 
The matches marked the halfway point in the Irish regu­lar season with the team 15-3 and ranked 25th in the AVCA coaches' poll. Sixteen matches remain, and if things continue as they are, the MCC champi­onships and a trip to the NCAA tournament will be added to the schedule. Head coach Debbie Brown gave her team good marks both for the Golden Dome Invitational and for the season so far. 
"I was very pleased with our overall performance," Brown said of the tournament. "We learned from all of our matches, and each one was good in a different way. I feel very good about where we are at the halfway point of the season." 
Saturday night's match was the showcase for the weekend, 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Irish Youth Hockey League is looking for ND students to coach or assist coaches during the upcoming hockey season. If interested, contact Scott Gosselin at 271-7414. 
The Aikido Club will be having open practices on Mondays and Wednesdays from 6-8 p.m. in Rockne 219. Everyone is welcome. 
Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club practice times have changed. The club will now meet on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7:30p.m. in the Fencing Gym at Gate 4 of the JACC. If you have questions, call Tim Kalamaros at 277-6797. 
i The SMC track team will be holding an organizational 
I 
meeting on October 12 at 8 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. 
Come to the meeting for more information and to meet the 
coach.

I 
I 
I 
NO Ski team will have a meeting on October 13 in 127 
~ 
Nieuwland Science Hall at 8 p.m. Trips are still available for
I 
anyone interested. Bring checkbooks for deposits. If you have
I 
questions, call Chris at 273-2958.
I 
I 


I 
' 
' 
' 
t
' 
I' 
~ 
I 
I 
I 
PROJECT 
A Ronald E. McNair Post Baccalaureate Achievement Project (a TRIO project) for 
First Generation, Low income Students and/or Students from Under-represented Groups 
Informational Meeting : Tues., Oct. 13, 
7:00 PM, Cushing (Engineering) Auditorium 
,. 

Jessica Fiebelkorn 
but the Notre Dame-Florida State matchup turned out to be the closest and most exciting. After an emotional roller coaster, the Irish prevailed 12­15, 15-5, 7-15, 15-1, 17-15. 
The Seminoles (12-5) took game one behind Bianca Stevens' four kills, but Notre Dame bounced back to domi­nate the second game. Florida State's Luiza Ramos combined rocket spikes and well-placed tips to rack up eight kills and lead her team to victory in game three. The Irish con­trolled the fourth by breaking out to a 9-0 lead and coasting the rest of the way. To that point, it was not the classic con­test one would expect from two regional powers. 
"Both teams were making a lot of errors," Brown explained. "Even in the first two games we won, I felt like Florida State helped us out tremendously." 
Pressure brought out the best in both teams, however, and things changed dramatically in the fifth game. Especially strong in the clutch was Notre Dame's Christy Peters. After amassing only six kills in the first four games, the sophomore outside hitter pounded out seven more, the final one coming with the Irish facing a Florida State match point. Peters found a hole in the Seminole defense after a long, seesaw rally, and the JACC crowd erupted to spur the home team to the final two points. 
"At that point (after game four), we knew we needed to pick the tempo up a little," Peters said. "We did that and then just went with it." 
The Pittsburgh (7 -9) match was a different story. The Irish took a 9-0 lead in game one and never looked back, winning 15­6, 15-5, 15-0. Peters paced the team again with 13 kills and 16 digs. Jessica Fiebelkorn added 9 and 13, respectively. Brown was surprised by the lopsided score of the match, especially since her team has been inconsistent after winning the first two games of several matches. 
"We've really been working hard on playing a better third game, especially when we're 
The Observer/Jake Peters

ahead 2-0," Brown explained. 
Sophomore Kristy Peters returns a serve in Friday's game against FSU. 
"You can't get much better than too much power. Behind 14 "It was a good opportunity to15-0. Pitt is an inexperienced kills from Danielle Scott and play against a team with that
team, so they will be up and eleven by Nichelle Burton, Long kind of balance," she said of the down. We also played well." 
Beach took the match 15-8, 15-49ers. "We learned from theAfter two strong matches, the 5, 15-6. Peters contributed eight shots they took, and I hope we
Irish were fired up to play na­in a losing effort. Brown took can incorporate some of their
tional juggernaut Long Beach 
the loss in stride. 

State, but the 49ers simply had 
Men's soccer wins at Evansville 
Observer Staff Report Bader continued his pursuit of Notre Dame's career shutout It was a battle between young record. Sunday's game marked teams struggling to make a the 16th shutout of his career, 
Thelliginall932g~lerf!lmsla!sPaul Muni.

mark in the Midwestern just six short of the record. Collegiate Conference. 
2000 MANIACS 9:00 The Notre Dame men's soccer The win is especially impor­
1964Jmorballmaiiof'splaner'fibm. 

team took a big step toward tant for the Irish, because it >==========::::' that goal with a 1-0 win over puts them in good position to Evansville Sunday. earn a high seed in the MCC's 
post-season tournament, the 
6:30 
Sophomore Tim Oates pro­winner of which earns an invi­vided the winning margin for tation to the NCAA tournament. the Irish with less than three minutes remaining in the game Notre Dame now stands a 7­on an assist from classmate 4-1 overall and 4-1 in the MCC. >==========0:::: 


Keith Carlson. It was the third Only one conference game game-winning goal of Oates' remains on the Irish schedule, career. October 29 against Butler, but 
they will be busy before that. 
But defense was the story of the game, as Evansville could They visit Kentucky and manage only six shots on goal, Vanderbilt during fall break while Notre Dame had just five. before returning home to 
FRI. ocr. 16-SVN. ocr. 25 
FALL BREAK 
NO JilLMS, HAVE ASAFE BREAK ! 

THE 
~-eJ?>' 
DOMER DASH 
WHAT: A two-person (1 male & 1 female) 
team obstacle course, of course! WHERE: At the JACC, Gym 2! WHEN: October 28, Wednesday, 7pm! WHO: Grab a partner and 'DO THE DASH'! HOW: Sign up at the RecSports Office, call 
239-6100! 

Participate or just watch. Those present can enter a drawing for the GRAND PRIZE -A Compact Disc Player 
Participate and compete for prizes worth over 
I 

$200! 
WE 
DARE YOU!! 
(double dog) ** A National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week El'ent ** ••• Sponsored by : Office of Recreational Sports & Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education ••• 


"
Today
II. 
Monday, October 12, 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

UNDERGROUND RAILWAY THEATER presents 
rJiie Cliristoplier Co{um6us :fo{{ies: Jln f£co-Ca6aret 
This energetic performance by an award-winning national touring company explores the legacy of •.·-·········· Columbus from multiple viewpoints while examining issues of cultural encounter, racism, ecology, . class division, Native American concerns, and more. The play combines music, puppetry, humor, 
magic and other theatrical media to challenge, inform, and encourage dialogue. 
tickets: LaFortune Infor Desk and Center for Social Concerns, $7 GA and $5 stuuenu 
• 

Tuesday, October 13, 1992 Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I B8 '{()IJ'RE f>.tL 
1\-lll'l\<.I~G. "WO'tl. )bW DID 
n.lost.. CLO\\-\t..S 'NALK To 1\-\E 
t12.ol'lT Of \\-\E. C.Lt>S'S A.LL 
B'( 1\-\~t-'St.l\IES? • 
~~------------~~--------------~g 

CROSSWORD 
:-t::-F.-t:":-1 24 Duke or Day 25 Adored 
BILL WATTERSON 

A\--\0 NOW LOOK! WcR~ t\ Pits:.£. Ot CliALK tLOf\TI~Er P..Ro\ll'lO.' PR8N 'tlt.IRO. ~\l\1 ~ i£5, RlR. 'S\iOW Al'lO iHL TOOf•,'C I. c.Al\1\N, f.\11\\J£. T\JRNtO t<\'I5'C.Lt 11'1\1\5\Bl£! 
l 

~-~~~ 
~ 

47 Uncle's mate 48 Certain radio 
operator 51 Rotate 52 Doctor Jekyll's 
alter ego 55 Fury 56 Check copy 57 Felt poorly 58 Sound on 
Capitol Hill 59 Single 60Sierra-, 
Africa 

DOWN 
1 Pale 2 Eyelid affliction 3 Ratters 4 Broadcast 5 Upgrade 6 Sortie of troops 7 "... one way to 
skin-" a Kipling's "Gunga-" 
9 Bulky book 10 Servicewomen 11 Harem room 14 Cry heard at an 
N.B.A. game 
15 Large-bloomedbushes 
17 Legendary Marco 22 Jujitsu, e.g. 
23 Submarine detecting device 
LIJC.K.'{ G\l0:>, 1>\15~ WOR.\'<\W00\).1 \\-\~ ClOlWE.5 AI-\\) n\E 
1\t>. 1-\A! \'lOW l'll ThKE 0\T 
woooooo~. ~'tS'E Pr...N\5 

!'aT ~IJ!\t> '{OJ 1-\~~R 'ti\\.L ~ B£ til~ ItEr 1-\g..\)1~ FOR { 111£. r;x:J::)R! P.,\)IOS, M<\\G05.' 
'i 
~ 

~ 


29 French fighting force 30 Holbrook or Linden 31 Hounds' quarry 33 Counterespio· nage agcy. of 
w.w. 11 35 Hag 39-Park, N.Y.C. 
45 Pier 51"... in the 
46 Strong impulse 
spring,-Ia" 47A-Able 
53 Wedding words 

48 Wood: Comb. form 54 Go swiftly 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

Notre Dame Baked Parmesan Chicken Breast Beef Turnover with Gravy Eggplant Parmesan  Saint Mary's Soup du Jour Pasta Bar Southwest Bar  
LECTURES  
Monday  

2 to 4 p.m. Panel Presentation, "Choosing a Graduate School in International Affairs." Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace. Studies. 6 p.m. Robert Nanovic Lecture Series, "East/Central Europe in International Politics: Continuity and Change." Professor Piotr Wandycz, Yale University. 131 DeBartolo. Sponsored by the Committee for European Studies. 7 p.m. "New Directions in Israeli Politics: Their Implications for the Peace Talks." Dr. Ran Kochan, Culture and Education Center, General Federation of Israeli Labor. Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Sponsored by the Kroc Institute and the government and anthropology departments. 
ACROSS 
1 Music org. &Woeful 9Duo 
12 One of a flight 13 Type of rain 15 Australian 
tennis player Lew-t&Speedy motorboat 18 Youth org. 19 Affirmative 20 Shed feathers 21 Loses color 23 Sacred 
24 Chan creator Earl­Biggers 
25 Attack vigorously 
27 San Francisco quarterback 30 Vast number 31 That girl's 32 Rex Stout's Wolfe 34Assert 35 Memorable jazz pianist 36 Precious stones 37 Loose-woven fabric 38 Time periods 39 Gives over 40 Marks with spots 42 Rent 43 Portable mortar troughs 44 Storage structures 45 Fixed allotment 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
I
I 
I 
I 
.. 
.. 
page 16 
ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Cheap Shots 

Kept promises make Holtz worthy election choice 
Lou Holtz came through on a few 
promises Saturday night. 

After a disappointing loss to Stanford 
a week earlier, Lou promised to go 
back to the old ways of Notre Dame 
football. And indeed, his team made a 
return to the fundamentals-the 
running game and smash-mouth 
play-and crushed Pittsburgh 52-21. 
Lou takes all kinds of heat from all 
kinds of people, especially when the 
Irish lose. Some tell him to use Rick 
Mirer's passing talents to the fullest, 
while others tell him not to use them at 
all. Whatever his game plan or his 
success, Lou is bound to take criticism 
of his coaching ability from some 
corner. 

But few dare to criticize the coach's 
diligence and dedication to make Notre 
Dame the top football team in the 
country. And when Holtz makes a 
promise about the Irish, you can bet 
he'II fulfill it. 

Bill Clinton and George Bush each made a few promises (though they likely wouldn't like my use of the term) last night. But realistically, the chances that either will be able to come through on them is slim. 
However, the president's situation is different from Lou's. The football coach's little autocracy is devoid of the checks and balances of our national system. When national political leaders make promises about what they can do for the economy, or claims about how fast they can make those changes, they have to worry about budgets, legislative bodies and public opinion. Holtz has no such worries. He is the end-all and be-ali of Notre Dame football. What he says, goes. What any­one else says matters little. 
So why don't we put Lou in the White House with a system similar to the one he runs at Notre Dame? 
We see and hear red, white and blue mumbo-jumbo throughout our lives, but what we need is some more blue and gold in the American political scene. 
Everybody talks about the power to choose and the freedoms we have in this country. But wouldn't our government be a lot more efficient, and a lot more responsive to problems, if Lou Holtz were at its head? We might have to repeal a liberty or two, and eliminate a couple of those annoying checks and balances in order for Lou to run the government efficiently, but that is a small price to pay to have interna­tional security. 
Think about it-a little man, who has achieved in the private sector and who can make decisions when they need to be made, making our decisions for us. That's a great idea! 
Lou might make a few mistakes-like forgetting that the clock was running, or the presidential equivalent-after all, he is human. But rest assured that 
see HOLTZ/page 1 0 
Sports 
Monday, October 12, 1992 
The Observer/ Pat McHugh Jerome Bettis parts the Panther defense on one of his 13 carries. Bettis amassed 93 yards on the ground and two touchdowns. 
Irish bounce back at Pitt, 52-21 
By JIM VOGL 
Assistant Sports Editor 
PITTSBURGH-The Notre Dame football team rolled to a 52-21 win over Pittsburgh Saturday evening, bouncing back from last week's deflating loss to Stanford. The Irish ( 4-1-1) moved up one in the AP poll to twelfth. 
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz, under the pressure-cooker after an embarrassing loss to Stanford at home last week, devised a game­plan that set out to destroy the Panthers. 
Holtz vowed to return to the power running game Tuesday's press 
• Offense keys win/see page 13 
am 

The running game responded with 323 bruising yards on 48 attempts. Jerome Bettis rumbled for three touchdowns, compiling 94 yards on 13 carries. 
"We knew before the game that we'd have a tough time stopping Jerome Bettis," said a frustrated Pitt head coach Paul Hackett. "We keyed on him but we just couldn't stop him." 
Bettis broke the goal line from eight yards out with 4:25 in the first quarter, as Craig Hentrich's PAT gave Notre Dame a 7-6 lead they would not relinquish the rest of the way. He followed with a two-yard plunge :32 before half-time and an eleven-yard TD run with 2:29 left in the third period. 
Holtz also followed through on a promise to play those who perform in practice. "I've never seen the second unit practice as well as it did yesterday," he observed. "I expect that team to move the football." 
Designated weapons Derrick Mayes, Lee Becton, Kevin McDougal and Oscar McBride met Holtz's expectations, producing the same big­play game he renounced. 
The freshman flyer Mayes caught two passes, both going the distance. Early in the fourth period, quarterback Rick Mirer fired a perfect bullet to the streaking Mayes for a 69-yard TO. 
Lee Becton, starting in place of Reggie Brooks who was hobbled by a hip injury, was the only starter Holtz called on when the Irish offense took the field with his team up 14-6 early in the second 
The Observer/ Pat McHugh 

see WIN/page 11 
Freshman Derrick Mayes catches one of his two touchdowns. 
Bearcats no match for focused women's soccer 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
Behind a powerful offense and a stingy defense the 15th-ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team won its second straight game over a ranked team, topping No. 22 Cincinnati 3-0 Friday night on Alumni Field. 
The high-powered Irish offense was fueled by forward Rosella Guerrero who scored two goals and kept the heat on Bearcat goalkeeper Lisa Griffin with twelve of Notre Dame's 22 shot attempts. 
Guerrero found success early, scoring 
';i~~iiiij~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;;:. 3 : 14 in to the game after taking a passINSIDE SPORTS from fellow forward Alison Lester. Prior =:-::-:::--:--:-::-------=-------, to Guerrero's scoring shot, sophomore •Volleyball earns second Jodi Hartwig spread the defense 
see page 14 delivering the pass to Lester, opening the 
•Irish 
move up in poll 

•Softball 
wins fall finale 



see page 11 see page 11 
opportunity for Guerrero. 
The early score proved to be the only points in the first half as both defenses held off the opposing attack. Griffin did most of the work, repelling ten Notre Dame scoring attempts. 
Early in the second half Hartwig played the role of the scorer, beating a Cincinnati defender and raising the Notre Dame lead with her unassisted goal at the 46:55 mark. Guerrero finished the scoring fifteen minutes later on an 

Alison Lester unassisted score, her tenth goal of the season. "Their defenders were very fast, the fastest we've faced," said Lester. "We couldn't rely on our speed. "In the past few games we played teams which were more physical and not that fast. Cincinnati made us move the ball across the field a lot faster." 
While the offense pelted the Bearcat defense, Irish goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga and the rest of the defense stopped five shots earning their fifth shutout of the season. 
"They are basically a defense team," added Lester. "They have had their problems on the attack." 
The Irish had to battle a number of distractions prior to Friday's game. Dorm dances as well as preparations for midterms weighed heavily on the minds of the players, but the commanding win assured that their minds were on the game. 
"We had a lot of things to think about, but on Friday we were really looking forward to playing a good team," Lester said. "We had the rest of the weekend off to deal with those things." 
The Irish raised their record to 7-4-1 on the year, and the win could have major implications in the polls. The Cincinnati coach is a member of the ranking voting committee, and should be impressed by Notre Dame's convincing win. 
Kentucky visits Alumni Field on Wednesday in what will be the final game of Notre Dame's eight-game homestand. 
After the game with the Wildcats, the Irish travel to Texas for a pair of games over fall semester break. 








