Israeli tanks are at border of lebanon 
TYRE, Lebanon (AP) -Israel amassed tanks along its border with Lebanon on Tuesday while Israeli warplanes and artillery hit guerrilla positions to avenge attacks by Muslim guerrillas that killed six Israelis. 
The fighting, which has left at least 13 people dead and 35 wounded in Israel and Lebanon this week, threatened to un­dermine the seventh round of Arab-Israeli peace talks under way in Washington. 
Israel sent nine Merkava tanks into its buffer zone in south Lebanon Tuesday night, according to security sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
An Israeli army spokeswoman said "a lot" of tanks are being amassed at Israel's northern border, but refused to give numbers. She said reinforcements were being deployed in the zone but did not specify if that meant troops, tanks or both. 
Hezbollah, the Shiite Muslim fundamentalist group that wants to derail the talks, claimed responsibility for a bombing Sunday in the Israeli buffer zone that touched off the latest round of violence. The blast killed five Israeli soldiers and wounded five. 
"We must be ready and de­ployed to respond in the neces­sary manner if Hezbollah con­tinues in its attempts to attack," Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said after the rocket attack. 

-----~---­
-

The Observer · 
r 

VOL. XXV. N0.41 ).Lji \ WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Clay Crosses 
Patrick Beirge, a 1992 graduate, works on a crucifix for his independent studio ceramic class. Beirge is a first year seminarian. Once completed his sculpture will be given to Pasquerilla East's chapel. 

Council director tells of responsibilities 
By ANDREW RUNKLE News Writer 
David Mcintosh, executive director of President George Bush's Council on Competitiveness, outlined the responsibili­ties of the council in a speech to the Notre Dame Chapter of the Federalist Society Tuesday. 
The Council on Competitiveness has four basic areas of responsibility in considering regulations of the federal government, according to Mcintosh. 
The Council on Competitiveness has scrutinized government land takings, worked for legal reform and the improve­ment of the drug approval process, and reviewed regulations of federal agencies, Mcintosh said. 
The council has been "fairly successful" in its attempt to "clear up the court system," according to Mcintosh. President Bush identified the high risks of being sued in America and the large number of un­necessary cases in the legal system, said Mcintosh. Under his guidance, the council has worked for legal reform in these areas. 
The council also has imposed accelerated approval programs in the pharmaceutical industry, according to Mcintosh. 
"If the patients are told of the risk, new drugs to treat serious or life-threatening dis­eases, can now be used sooner," he said. 
In the past, drug approval took approximately 10 years in the United States, but only five to six years in Europe. 
"There are tremendous consequences in this four-year period when the patients can't benefit (from life-saving drugs)," Mcintosh said. The council worked with the Food and Drug Administration to produce a series of reforms to accelerate the drug approval process, he added. 
The general function of the Council on Competitiveness is to review regulations of federal agencies. 
"We try to find which regulations will 
see MCINTOSH I page 4 

Students debate over presidential candidates 
********** 
ELECTION 192 
• Endorsement/ page 1 0 
By JOHN LUCAS 
News Writer 
In a forum mirroring the 
Richmond presidential debate, 
where average citizens asked 
questions of the three presiden­
tial candidates, the Keenan and 
Pasquerilla East Political Forum 
held the second in a series of 
discussions Tuesday, allowing 
students to voice their opinions 
and concerns with advocates of 
Bill Clinton and George Bush. 
"It's clear that people had 
things on their minds, and this 
gave them a chance to talk to 
supporters of other candi­
dates," explained PE resident 
and Clinton advocate Emily 
Lehrman. 
Government major Ben 
Gonring and program of liberal 
studies(PLS)Il major Lehrman 
represented Clinton while ac­
counting major Brian Fought 
and PLS major Emily Husted 
represented Bush. The forum 
began with Keenan residents 
Gonring and Fought making 
timed opening statements di­
rected toward their respective 
candidates' plans for meeting 
the needs of the student body.:.. 
Backed by statistics, Fought 
stressed that America and the press have exaggerated the country's economic problems, while proposing Bush's plan of across the board tax cuts for the middle class. 
Gonring urged that Ameri­cans use morality as a guide in voting for Clinton. 
"We need to choose a candi­date that either serves our per­sonal needs or the needs of all people ... hopefully in this envi­ronment of learning and spiri­tuality, we will choose the lat­ter." 
PE residents Lehrman and Husted later opened the floor to questions from the crowd at the Keenan Kommons. 
Questions from the floor ran the gamut of topics, ranging from standardized testing to urban enterprise zones. One of the most hotly debated was that of school choice and educa­tional vouchers proposed by Bush. Students also raised concerns about Clinton's eco­nomic and tax policy and his health care plan. 
After several minutes of open discussion, the majority of questions asked were critical of Clinton, leaving Gonring and Lehrman the task of defending their candidate to a crowd of apparent conservatives. Much of the debate consisted of at­tacks on Clinton's positions on the issues and his record as Governor of Arkansas. 
"I think it was the kind of ex­change that would take place naturally in a place with Notre Dame's conservative views," 
moderator Brother Bonaven­1, hosting economics professor ture Scully said. Charles Wilber and finance professor Herbert Sim. Fought Keenan and PE will hold promised, "The final forum will 
their final forum on November be 100 percent economy." 

Seniors Brian Fought and Ben Gonring, sophomores Phil Slevin and Curtis Walsh and freshman Vishal Pahwa remain in the basement of Keenan Hall discussing the issues from the Keenan and Pasquerilla East political forum. This was the second forum in the series presented by the two dorms. 
College is the dampening of the viva­ciousness of life and the freeing of the un­derstanding of consciousness-all wrapped up in the Zag of 

existence.  John Rock  
How odd it is that we  Managing Editor  
take all our frivolities as  

integrals and our integrals as mere byproducts of our human existence when we try and understand what makes us tick. 
In the darkness of the night, do we lay awake counting the levels of our souls or do we wonder about the fluctuations of interest rates and where tomorrow we get our daily bread? 
Who is afraid of true success in this Harold and Maudlin world we live in. Singing Dylan, but sounding like Petty, we work the seam of the system for all it's worth-but never challenging the system of growth challenged to us by our Creator. 
It's fme to know where you want to go in life, but it is another thing all together to throw our lives into the wind-like dandelion seeds to be blown and scattered by the winds of fate. 
Such randomness is the succulence of life, the variety and spontaneity forcing itself upon the screwed-up, structured world we live in. 
When the children grow up, stick ball renews itself like the spring crop. Government still grows like a tumbleweed on steroids. Death, taxes and disappointment-those three things so certain in the life of the new world order. 
The only real certainty in life, though, is life itself. Sometimes we get so hung up on anxiety, morality and conciousness that we forget how to live. 
The true morality though is to love to live and to do it as best as we can. Within this living, the soul graduates it~elf under the pedagogy of God until we reach a state greater that the great o this world. 
As much as we live among people, we live alone-as separate as interconnected-confused and just plain mind screwed. 
As Sampson, we let hair of our lives grow until it is cut and we are blinded, gathering new strength from pain and wanting until we can comprehend ourselves in this world. 
At Notre Dame, we can stumble through the labyrinth of riches and power, accidentally stumbling over our growth-unless God pities us so much that he saves us from it. 
In our country, we have trickled down nothing good to those at the bottom of the hill. Indeed it's amazing how money can trickle uphill. 
Unfortunately, the man made it illegal, but can pour smoke into our lungs for us, through the great factories. Which smoke opens the mind more? 
There isn't a whole lot that we can do today, except get through it-pray for peace and "ustice and work for equality. 
Beating the dead horse with the rhetoric o champions may work for the politicians, but it doesn't do for Jesus. 
So talk to the cuddly dog and the old priest, Harold, and go and love some more. But remember going off the deep end is a new start toward wherever we head. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff Production News Peggy Crooks Kenya Johnson Bryan Nowicki Sandy Wiegand Sports Systems Jason Kelly Harry Zembillas 
Accent Julie Wilkens Mary Schultze 
John LoGuidice 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

The Observer 

Phi fraternity was suspended for at least a year for including the slur in a pamphlet distributed to new members, the university announced Monday. The slur was included on a page listing actions the fraternity considered inappropriate. Pi Kappa Phi chief executive officer Durward Owen declined to comment, saying he did 
not have enough information about the decision. 
Bill Cosby negotiating to buy NBC 
LOS ANGELES -Bill Cosby is the latest entrant in the "Who will buy NBC?" sweepstakes.Norman Brokaw, the entertainer's agent, was told by Cosby on Oct. 16 "to explore buying the network. The conversation is ongoing." NBC spokeswoman Betty Hudson said the network had no comment. Cosby, who this month 


was added to Forbes magazine's list of the 400 richest Americans and was called the richest entertainer, has a net worth estimated at more than $300 million. The network, owned by General Electric, has fallen to third place in prime-time entertainment ratings and for months has been rumored to be on the selling block. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
No discrimination against homosexuals 
TORONTO -Homosexuals will no longer face discrimination that barred them from careers in the Canadian armed forces, the Department of National De­fense announced Tuesday. The decision came after the Federal Court of Canada ruled Tuesday morning that re­strictions on gays in the military are contrary to the Char­ter of Rights and Freedoms. "The Canadian Forces will comply fully," Gen. John de Chastelain said. "Canadians, regardless of the sexual orientation, will now be able to serve their count:y in the Canadian Forces without restriction." 

NATION 
Blacks applaud fraternity suspension 
ATHENS, Ga. -The University of Georgia has suspended a fraternity from participating in campus so­Cial events for using a racial slur against blacks. Pi Kappa 
Wednesday, October 28,1992 
FORECAST 
Partly cloudy and cool today with highs in the upper 50s. Cooler at night and lows in the 30s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H9  L  
Anchorage  35  32  
Atlanta  79  57  
Bogota  70  45  
Boston  55  46  
Cairo  81  64  
Chicago  59  42  
Cleveland  58  32  
Dallas  79  59  
Detroit  59  36  
Indianapolis  63  58  
Jerusalem  73  57  
London  54  46  
Los Angeles  77  64  
Madrid  70  48  
Minneapolis  61  31  
Moscow  30  25  
Nashville  68  61  
New York  58  46  
Paris  57  46  
Philadelphia  58  47  
Rome  68  59  
Seattle  59  45  
South Bend  59  31  
Tokyo  70  55  
Washington, D.C.  63  52  



OF INTEREST 
•Playwright Adrienne Kennedy will appear at 
4:15 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center. 
•An 
open Alcoholics Anonymous meeting will be at 6 p.m. in the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education, LaFortune Mezzanine. Meetings are held every Wednes­day. 

•"Conduct 
an Effective Mail Campaign", a presentation by Paul Reynolds of the Career and Place­ment Services office, will be at 6:30 p.m. in the Foster Room of LaFortune Student Center. 

•The 
Notre Dame Accounting Association pre­sents KPMG Peat Marwick, who will speak on "the second interview" at 7 p.m. in room 223 of Hayes-Healy Center. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING October 26 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 201,651.700 +0.23 to 230.01 S&P COMPOSITE 

+.33 to 418.49 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
·8.38 to 3,235. 73 
UNCHANGED 
612 

GOLD 
-SJ.70 to $338.00 
SILVER 
-$0.50 to 53.752 
•The 
Disoriented Domer Dash will be in Gym 2 at the JACC at 7 p.m. Teams of one male and one female will attempt an obstacle course with a variety of chal­lenges. Sign up at RecSports. Prizes will be awarded. 

•"Get 
To Know The Law Before The Law Gets To Know You" will be presented at 8 p.m. in the Cushing Auditorium. This is an opportunity to interact with the SUDS Task Force, and ask questions about rights, re­sponsibilities, enforcement priorities, and other topics. 

•Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago representa­tives will meet with juniors and seniors to discuss sum­mer internship and full-time work opportunities Thurs­day from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. in Haggar College Center 


303. The interviews are open to all juniors and seniors. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• In 1918: Czechoslovakia officially proclaimed its 
independence from Austria-Hungary. 
• 
In 1940: Italian troops under the command of Benito Mussolini launched a surprise invasion of Greece. 

• 
In 1958: Angelo Giuseppe Cardinal Roncali was elected 


Pope. He took the name John XXIIIa 
• In 1981: The Ford Motor Corporation reported a $595 
million third-quarter loss, at that time the largest operating loss ever reported by an American company. 
• In 1984: The Chinese government announced plans for 
economic reforms, introducing capitalist measures and decreasing the government's role. 

Wednesday, October 28, 1992 The Observer page 3 

Canadian groups join ­to reject reform accord 
MONTREAL (AP) -Canadians discovered a new unity Tuesday. East and west, French and English came together -not over constitutional reforms but in rejecting the path chosen for them by the country's political elite. 
The results of Monday's ref­erendum was a sharp rebuff to Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, provincial premiers and aboriginal leaders. As expected, voters in French-speaking Quebec rejected the reform ac­cord, but it also lost in five other provinces and one terri­tory. 
The constitutional changes would have recognized Quebec as a "distinct society," reformed the Senate and the House of Commons to give western states more representation and recognized the rights of Indians and Inuit to govern themselves. 
But while Canadians com­bined to vote the measure down 
54.4 percent to 42.4 percent, they had widely varying reasons. Canada was left no closer to a consensus on dealing with the cultural and regional differences that have been 
Runnins Out Of Time?? ~ 
Drop 'em and Run 
let Us Do it For You! DroP Off Your laundry ln The Morning,Pick lt UP The Same Afternoon! 
What could be easier? 



r-----------65¢~-----~~ 
l 20%) OFF DROP-OFF LAUNDRY l 
I at I 
: World's Greatest laundromat 1 
1 1813 South Bend Ave at I 1 Campus Shoppes Shopping Center 2 7 1 • 7 6 7 5 I 
L_J~~~~e~~~~~~~---~i~~~~2~0 Lb. Min. J 
straining the federation for years. 
Separatists in Quebec were cheered, hoping the results would rejuvenate their inde­pendence campaign and give them a boost in provincial elec­tions that must be held by 1994. However, the province's rejection did not translate into support for independence, be­cause many opponents of se­cession also voted "no." 
The reform package originally was designed to meet Quebec's complaints about threats to its cultural identity in a predominantly English -speaking nation. But it gradually was expanded to meet demands for giving more power to less populous provinces and aboriginal peoples. 
Pollsters predicted Tuesday that Mulroney, the deal's chief salesman, would be the biggest loser and might soon be forced from office. With an anemic economy that has 1. 5 million Canadians out of work, Mul­roney is Canada's most un­popular prime minister since pollsters began tracking such sentiments. 

Happy Birthday 
Tom ••• 

and Wlpe that smirk off your 
Sunday's Rre For Students 





~arriott 
Lounge Downtown South Bend 
Free Food Bp.m.-10p.m. Specials Bp .m.-12 
Come with your friends to watch Sunday night football, enjoy FREE food, great specials and Rwesome Halftime Rafflesllllll 
EARN $2,000 +FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! North America's #1 Student Tour Operator seeking motivated students, organizations, fraternities and sororities as campus representatives promoting Cancun or Daytona Beach! Calll-800-365-4654 


Cease-fire called near Sarajevo 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -Muslim and Croat leaders on Tuesday agreed to a cease-fire in a town near Sarajevo, but their anti­Serb coalition in the Bosnian war remained shaky. 
The Belgrade-based Tanjug news agency said Tuesday that Serb and Croat forces in the western parts of the Herzegov­ina region agreed to a three­day cease-fire and an exchange of prisoners. 
Croatian militiamen overran the Muslim-held town of Prozor after four days of fighting, ac­cording to Muharem Savic, commander of Muslim-led Bosnian government forces there. He said its 3,000 inhabi­tants had been forced to flee. No casualty count was released. 
But Croatian officials denied taking the town 30 miles west of Sarajevo. The situation could not be independently checked. 
Both sides met on Tuesday and agreed to pull their fighters from the town, according to a Bosnian army spokesman and Croatian television reports. 
In Belgrade, Tanjug said the Serb-Croat agreement, reached Monday, included commitments to set up hotlines to prevent clashes during the truce. 
The news agency gave no details on the extent of territory covered by the truce or on how many prisoners would be freed. It said prisoners would be exchanged Nov. 1. 
Bosnian officials in Sarajevo said they had no knowledge of the cease-fire. 
Bosnia's war began when Serbs rebelled against the ma­jority Muslims and Croats, who voted for secession from Yu­goslavia on Feb. 29. 
Muslims and Croats had been nominally allied, but Croats have increasingly joined Serbs in demanding the partitioning of Bosnia along ethnic lines. Serbs and Croats have seized control of virtually all of Bosnia during fighting that has killed more than 14,00 people. 
· Muslim and Croat troops have fought battles in several towns within a 35-mile radius of Sarajevo during the past week. 

page 4 

Mcintosh 
continued from page 1 
either hinder or aid economic growth," Mcintosh said. There is $400 billion worth of federal regulation each year and "we ask the question of what are the benefits of these regulations," he said. 
Mcintosh said there have been a few "stupid regulations" which the council has ad­dressed, including a proposal to make drive-through teller machines accessible to the blind. "If you have a narrow focus, you don't get the true picture, and you get regulations which undermine health and the economy," Mcintosh said. 
According to Mcintosh, the Council on Competitiveness usually gets involved in regula­tion when there is a difference between two federal agencies, such as the Environmental Protection Agency and the En­ergy Department, on a particu­lar law. Each federal agency has the authority to write the law, and the council reviews the proposals and recommends appropriate action, he said. 
Mcintosh expressed his sup­port for Bush, and said people are supporting Bush because "they are still fairly skeptical about big government and too much regulation." 
Mcintosh said he sees Bush as an "authority figure, a moral and spiritual leader," qualities people want in their president, he said. 
In January 1992, Vice Presi­dent Dan Quayle appointed Mcintosh as executive director of the Council on Competitive­ness. Mcintosh also aids Quayle as assistant to the vice president for domestic policy. Mcintosh served under Presi­dent Ronald Reagan as assis­tant to the attorney general 
The Observer 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Realistic theatrics 
Laura Clark and Stephen J. O'Toole participate in discussion after the play "Recovery Productions," presented at Washington Hall. The play dealt with the recovery from addictive and dysfunctional behaviors. 

Snite to feature exhibit by photographer Erwitt 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's Snite Museum of Art is currently featuring an exhibit of 40 photographs by photojournalist Elliott Erwitt. The photographs will be on view through Dec. 27. 
Erwitt, a freelance photogra­pher, has been published in Life, Collier's, Look and Holiday magazines. The works on ex­hibit include photographs from his commentary series on dogs, humorously titled "Son of a Bitch." 
According to Stephen Spiro, chief curator of the Snite Mu­seum, Erwitt is best known for personal pictures that capture amusing relationships between men, women, children, animals and their surroundings. 
Erwitt established humor as an acceptable means of ex­pression in photography, using visual puns and combinations of seemingly unrelated people and objects in a wide variety of settings, according to Spiro. 
"If my pictures help some people see things in a certain way, it's probably to look at se­rious things non-seriously," Erwitt said. "Everything's seri­ous. Everything's not serious." 
Richard Stevens, associate professor of photography at Notre Dame, will present a noon-talk on the exhibit titled "Elliott's Improbables," on Nov. 17 from 12:10 to 12:55 p.m. in the museum's Print, Drawing and Photography Gallery. 
The Snite Museum's hours are Tuesday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., and Sunday, 1 to 4 p.m. The museum is open until 8 p.m. on Thursdays when classes are in session. Admission to the Museum is free. 
~, J.! ~ 
~·O~#~~~ $1 00 
'~~lb~O~ 
~ ~ ?:! 

-.."'!~~Challenge
~"<J 
'?0 

Eat 5 lib. burgers in 2 hours and win $1 00. Call In advance for details. 



-------------------------------------. 
Wednesday, October 28, 1992 
Administration Building 


connects to computers 
By THERESA ALEMAN News Writer 
The Notre Dame Administra­tion Building is undergoing a three-phase process to connect it to the campus computer net­work. 
This connection will decrease dependence on phone lines for communication, according to Roger Gulbranson, director of the office of University Comput­ing Networking Services. 
The process includes the de­sign of the system, installation of the computer cables, and fi­nally, installation of the net­work. The process, which is already under way, hopefully will be completed by March, according to Vish Yelsangikar, network engineer at the ND of­fice of computing. 
Yelsangikar said the network will greatly aid the ND faculty and staff, be they scientists or "ordinary users." 
The network will enable users to send as well as to re­ceive electronic mail (e-mail) anywhere in the world. It will enable scientists to send and receive constantly updated files around the world, and it will allow users to access news from multiple sources, accord­ing to Yelsangikar. 




StartlineM 
1-0 
CHECKING ACCOUNT 
• NO MONTHLY SERVICE FEES  • FREE FIRST ORDER OF  
When you write 8 checks or less  CHECKS Standard design  
•NO MINIMUM BALANCE  .PAYS INTEREST AT  
COMPETITIVE RATES  
• FREE INSTANT CASH  
ATMACCESS  

Come to expect the best. 

South Bend • New Carlisle • Granger 
Norwest Bank Indiana, N.A. © !991 Norwest Bank Indiana Member FDIC 


* A FEATURE FILNl * 
SUNBEAM PRODUCTIONS 
On behalf of Sunbeam Productions, Inc., a free screening of 

"HOOSIERS" 
will be presented at the Stepan Center on Wednesday, October 28 at 7:30pm. 
Angelo Pizzo, Writer, and David Anspaugh, Director, of "HOOSIERS" and "RUDY" will be present for a question and answer session after the film. 
Bring friends!! 

Be there or be square, but remember: First Come -First Served. 
----------~----------~~~---~---­
Man who wore a condom to rape indicted in Texas 
AUSTIN, Texas (AP) -A grand jury Tuesday indicted a man accused of raping a woman who asked him to wear a condom. Another grand jury had refused to bring charges last month, prompting protests. 
Joel Rene Valdez, 27, was indicted on charges of aggra­vated sexual assault and bur­glary with intent to commit ag­gravated sexual assault, District Attorney Ronnie Earle said. 
The grand jury recommended that bond be set at $100,000, and Valdez remained in Travis County Jail. If convicted, he faces a maximum sentence of life in prison. 
The refusal of another grand jury to indict Valdez set off protests from women's groups and others, including a rally by about 100 people outside the county courthouse. 
Grand jury proceedings are secret under law, and prosecu­tors wouldn't discuss the rea­sons for the first panel's action Sept. 30. Earle's office resub­mitted the case to a second grand jury. 
Police say the woman was raped Sept. 16 by a man who broke into her home and held a knife on her. She said she asked him to wear a condom because she feared sexually transmitted diseases. 
Valdez told police he had sex with the woman after hiding in her apartment and said she consented to have sex. 
"She's the one who gave me the condoms. If she didn't want to, why would she give me the condoms?" he said. · 

CDC adds to AIDS definition 
ATLANTA (AP) -Federal health officials on Tuesday added three more diseases to a proposed new definition of AIDS, bowing to demands from activists who had accused the government of ignoring symp­toms peculiar to women. 
The revised definition, ex­pected to be enacted next year, could affect disability and other benefits for thousands of people infected with HIV, the virus that eventually causes AIDS. The government considers an AIDS diagnosis in calculating disability benefits, and a diag­nosis is needed to participate in drug trials or qualify for low­cost AIDS drugs. 
The Centers for Disease Con­trol proposed adding pulmonary tuberculosis, recurrent pneumonia and invasive cervi­cal cancer to the list of diseases that indicate AIDS has fully de­veloped in people infected with HIV, the AIDS virus. 

"We expect this expansion to result in more comprehensive 
monitoring of the epidemic of HIV infection and related dis­ease in the United States," Dr. James Curran, associate direc­tor for AIDS, said in a letter an­nouncing the proposal. 
The Atlanta-based agency will take public comment on the proposal until Nov. 16 but. barring unusual developments, the definition is expected to go into effect Jan. 1, said spokeswoman Ann Sims. 
AIDS activists welcomed the proposal, saying it would mean AIDS diagnoses for thousands of HIV-infected women and drug abusers. 
Come find out what they are in a brief general session-then talk with directors of programs that interest you the most! 
Participating programs include: 
concentrations area studies 
• 
Hesburgh Program in Public Service • European Area Studies 

• 
Film and Cultural Studies 

• 
Medieval Studies 

• 
Mediterranean Studies 


• Peace Studies  • African Studies  
• Gender Studies  • Latin American Studies  
• Science, Technology, and Values  • Soviet Studies  



French doctor to fight charge of taint.ed blood d.istribution 
second maJo.r spech~J=programs 
• African Amefkart:Stvdies • CAPP (C.~:m1pyt~t''Appli~tions) 


r6' 'f-~ ftlt.r 

Sprr.J-r~" 
for Arts & Letters students 
Thursday, October29 
6:30 to 7:30 p.m. 114 O'Shaughnessy 
death threats. Garretta said the strain of the case had wearied him. 
·'i ~''I'.be Judgment that was pronounced is a judgment that's not, in the end, about fac~. but abQV.t a rumor,.. he 
Siid~ ·= t@i!::..:::::·::... '· 
C()P,rt deemed Garretta ~olittest''em'ly the inspirer and . dl1rA<i:t~l•'..~:.N>? Qf a't policy to 
~nlJ!UllLe .. distdbutin~ blood t(J be contaminated '"'··~·•""'!:!~1''·;~;;u.o~··. importing ext cially treated 
,,•.., ......,....· other offiehlls alsoed of refusing to pwren:ase U$.-developed AIDS equipment while wAnn•.a for France's Pasteur ··.··... Institute to develop Jts own 
· ·· system. ···· 

New CPR guidelines say call the ambulance before starting 
CHICAGO (AP) -Before using 
CPR, call 911. 
The best way to save some­
one's life using cardiopul­
monary resuscitation is to put it 
off until you call an ambulance, 
CPR experts say in Wednesday's 
issue of The Journal of The , American Medical Association. 
It's a reversal of previous 
recommendations for adult vic­
tims, which suggested that a 
rescuer working alone give one 
minute of CPR before leaving to 
telephone for medical help. 
The reversal is among several changes in emergency procedures recommended by the Fifth National Conference on CPR and Emergency Cardiac ­Care and published in the journal. 
"CPR was taught to lay people 
in the 1970s with a great deal 
of enthusiasm that is was going 
to save a lot of lives," said Dr. 
John Paraskos, who chaired the 
conference of 512 professionals 
in February. 
"It turns out it doesn't unless 
it's backed up by adequate 
emergency systems and ad­
vanced care," Paraskos said 
Tuesday from the University of 
Massachusetts Medical Center in Worcester, where he is di­rector of diagnostic cardiology. 
Only 15 percent of people who get CPR live long enough to go home from the hospital, conference participants re­ported. 
But that rate can be improved greatly, as demonstrated by 40 percent CPR success rate in King County, Wash., which has a top-notch emergency medical system and a "large minority" of lay people trained in CPR, Paraskos said. 
About 500,000 Americans die each year from heart disease, most suddenly. Two-thirds of those are outside a hospital at the time, and CPR can still save tens of thousands of lives, the report suggested. 
"We would like to promote a concept called the 'chain of survival,"' said the director of program development for the American Red Cross. 
The four links in the chain are: calling 911 or other emer­gency telephone number; starting CPR; getting a heart­assist device called a defibrilla­tor to the victim; and following through with advanced life support. 


~--------~------~ -·--------·-----------~-----~---­
page 6 

A gunman in Australia kills six and injures one 
SYDNEY, Australia (AP) -A man went on a shotgun ram­page through three coastal towns Tuesday night, killing his former girlfriend, her father and pregnant sister and three others before surrendering, po­lice said. 
Another man was badly wounded in the hour-long as­sault. 
The stocky, 45-year-old gunman, whose name was not released, was charged with murder and scheduled to ap­pear in court Wednesday. 
Neighbors said they heard shouting, then shots shortly after 9 p.m. at a house in Ter­rigal, a surfing resort 40 miles north of Sydney. 
Inside, ambulance workers found the gunman's former girlfriend, Kerry Gannon, 23, dead in a living-room chair. Her 18-year-old sister, Lisa Gannon, had been killed in a bedroom. Neighbor Burt Clarke said the sister, married to. a policeman, was about eight months pregnant. 
The dead body of their 43­year-old father, Thomas Gan­non, was outside in the road, along with a 22-year-old man, Christopher Gall, who was shot in the face. Gall was hospital­ized in serious but stable condi­tion. 
Clarke first thought the shot­gun blasts were someone kick­ing his front door. 
"When I got out the front, this character fired a shot and I heard a lot of screaming," Clarke said. 
"When I came outside it sounded like the girls were pleading, and then there were more shots." 
LUXEMBOURG (AP) -The European Community and the United States today agreed to new negotiations to resolve a trade dispute before next week's presidential elections. 
"We must continue negotiat­ing. It's important to the world economy," said EC Agriculture Commissioner Ray MacSharry after receiving a phone call to­day from U.S. Agriculture Sec­retary Ed Madigan. 
No date or venue for the meeting was set yet, but an EC official who spoke on condition of anonymity said it would be in the next few days, probably in the United States. 
MacSharry said he and Madigan discussed the situation overnight, and this afternoon Washington came through with the offer to continue negotia­tions. 
The conflict has stymied ef­forts to create a new, 108-na­tion version of the General 
~, .b.~ 
~·(>:§>~&~~ 
a, or::' :'l")
#~~.i~~Karaoke
.,:oqfr;:;. 

---~~ Every
'·P 

Wednesday 
9:30-1:30 
1 mile east of campus 
The Observer 

Behind the scenes 

Professor Charles Rice and junior Rich Delevan are live in WVFI's studio hosting the talk show " Public Abrasion." The program focuses on the presidential campaign and American politics. 
EC, U.S. agree they will negotiate to resolve farm subsidies dispute 
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which would reform the world trading system. 
President Bush has demanded that the EC further reduce subsidies to farmers, contending such support fosters unfair competition for food exported from the United States and elsewhere. The EC coun­tries -especially France -say the subsidies are crucial to the survival of Europe's small farms. 
The EC wants to reach an agreement before the Nov. 3 election out of concern that if Bush loses, several years of negotiations may have to be jettisoned and new talks held. 




ATTENTION JU·NIORS: 
• Would your parents like to stay at the Morris Inn during JPW? 
•Stop by the Junior Class Office in 
LaFortune to enter the lottery on Oct. 28, 29, & 30 (Wed.--Fri.), from 3 --5 pm. 



Women of ND/SMC, 

WATCH 0 U T , this little 
.

cutie lS 21 and single! 
Wednesday, October 28, 1992 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 


EC officials also perceive Bush as more likely to compromise because securing an agreement could boost his campaign. 
EC Trade Commissioner Frans Andriessen said he was optimistic a deal could be reached soon to put the world trade negotiations back on track. 
"A trade war doesn't have to happen. I think we can con­vince the French and come up with an offer to satisfy the United States," he said. 
An EC farm official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that if a meet­ing takes place, it would likely be in New York on Wednesday or Thursday. 
Reduce  
Reuse  
Recycle  

Bring this coupon to Little Professor and receive 



$1 OFF 
a purchase of $5 or more or. .. 
$20FF 
a purchase of $10 or more or... 

$30FF 
a purchase of $15 or more. 
On" di"W'Tlllnt wif'dmn ~ CU.'(IOfn<!'r; otrn v.Ud nnly on regularly-priced boob 1ft stock Olnd nut VJ~Iid with nthrr cliw-nttnt!l 
~~) BoTokpc0ENr£R. 
We llelp you {i11d books you'll love. Ironwood Plaza North • near the New Martin's State Road 23 at Ironwood • South Bend 277-4488 • Mon.-Sat.: I0:00-9:00 • Sunday: 10:00-5:00 
Practically Speaking ... 
Don't Miss ELLEN GOOTBLATT 
"Relationships" Expert, Advice Columnist and Author, Host of # l rated ABC evening talk show: "Getting Together with Ellen Gootblatt" 


MEETING, DATING, RELATING &MATING 
Wednesday, October 28th 
7:30 at SMC Carroll Auditorium 
( 




Senator: U.S. lied about exports to Iraq 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The chairman of the Senate Banking Committee accused the Bush administration Tuesday of "putting out false information" on U.S. export of advanced technology to Iraq before the Gulf War. 
At a rare hearing during the congressional recess, Sen. Donald Riegle, D-Mich., also criticized the Justice Depart­ment for what he called a delay in investigating possible crimi­nal wrongdoing by administra­tion officials. 
Hurricane, riot victims call government aid inadequate 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Victims of hurricanes in Florida and Hawaii and riots in California accused the government's emergency relief agency on Tuesday of failing to deliver "full and fair" assistance when disaster struck. 
In a petition to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, legal aid lawyers in the three states said they were acting "to dispel any illusions the public might have about FEMA's ability to deliver basic disaster relief." 
Z09vfrBif£, A BLOODY BRAIN, 
WHO KNOWS WHAT YOU'LL FIND AT THE ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 




ON J.HIA JLOWJEJEN. 

OCTOBER 31,1992 


PRIZES FOR THE BEST COSTUMES & LIVE OJ FROM 9PM-2AM 
HOPE TO SEE YOU AT THE BIGGEST ~#\U....OWlElEfNl CELEBRATION EVER! 
"It appears on the face of it that laws were broken; the people that did it have to be identified," said Riegle, who was the only committee mem­ber present. "The delay cannot go on indefinitely here ... If this Justice Department and attor­ney general don't do it, then another one will." 
Before they were submitted to Congress, documents pertaining to export licenses for Iraq were improperly altered by Commerce Department 
A spokesman said a lawsuit might be filed if the groups are not satisfied with FEMA's re­sponse to the accusation that it has failed to provide "full, fair and equitable disaster relief." The petition does not seek any financial compensation for the disaster victims. 
But FEMA spokespersons said the lawyers have delivered a fog of "half truths," outright inaccuracies and unfair criti­cism that disregards the thou­sands of disaster victims who have received millions of dol-

A BlACK CAl, 

MAYBE, EVEN THREE WISE MEN 
employees to disguise their military potential, the depart­ment's inspector general has found. 
Rep. Henry B. Gonzalez, D­Texas, House Banking Commit­tee chairman who has investi­gated U.S.-Iraq ties for two years, testified that the Bush administration helped the Iraqis build a nuclear "supergun," by approving export licenses in 1989 for related technology. 
Gonzalez said the Commerce Department granted an export 
Iars in needed assistance. 
The petition complains that thousands of disaster relief ap­plicants have yet to receive help months after Hurricane Andrew in Florida, Hurricane Iniki in Hawaii and the Los Angeles riots that followed the acquittal of police officers seen on video tape beating Rodney King. 
It was filed by legal Services of Greater Miami Inc., The Legal Aid Society of Hawaii and Urban Recovery Legal Assis­tance in Los Angeles. 
The allegations include: license in 1989 to Space Re­search Corp. of Maryland for a computer used to design a projectile for the long-range cannon designed to deliver nu­clear weapons. At the time, Gonzalez said, the State De­partment knew Space Research was engaged in numerous mili­tary projects in Iraq 

"Not surprisingly, the State Department misled the public about export licenses approved for Space Research Corp.," Gonzalez said. 
•
In Florida, fewer than half of the 154,000 people seeking aid have received it, and a shortage of mobile homes for people leaving now-closed tent cities has left thousands with inadequate housing. 

•In 
Hawaii, only 20 percent of those seeking disaster assis­tance had received temporary housing aid four weeks after Hurricane Iniki hit on Sept. 11 and under 5 percent had re­ceived individual and family grants. 


Workers' pay 
records the 

smallest gain 
in five years 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­
Americans' wages, salaries 
and benefits posted the 
smallest gain in five years in 
the 12 months ended Sept. 
30, the government said 
Tuesday in one of two re­
ports showing the weak 
economy was keeping a 
brake on inflation. 
"The back of inflation has 
been broken," asserted Allan 
Sinai, an economist with the 
Boston Co. 
Economist Robert G. Deder­
ick of the Northern Trust Co. 
in Chicago concurred. 
"There's still a residue," he 
said, "but basically we're 
talking about an economy in 
which inflation essentially is 
absent in goods-producing 
areas and is only in limited 
proportions in service-pro­
ducing areas." 
The Labor Department said 
its Employment Cost Index, 
considered one of the best 
gauges of wage inflation 
pressures, slowed to a 3.5 
percent advance in the year 
ended in September. 
That was down from 4.3 
percent a year earlier and 
the smallest increase since 
costs edged up 3.4 percent in 
the year ended in September 
1987. The index had risen 
3.6 percent in the year ended last June. 
At the same time, the Com­merce Department reported an inflation measure tied to the gross domestic product edged up at a 2.1 percent annual rate, the slowest advance since the department began calculat­ing it in 1982. 
As measured by the Labor Department's Consumer Price Index, inflation rose 3.1 percent in 1991, down from 
6.1 percent a year earlier. It has risen at a 2. 9 percent annual rate during the first nine months of this year, compared to a recent high of 
13.3 percent in 1979. ,, Dederick said there is no likelihood of any imminent inflationary rebound, given the weak economic envi~ ronment. 
"The question is, is it going tQ drop farther?" he said. +Both the wage and salary ~t.nd the benefit components helped brake the overall in~ crease in the Employment Cost Index. 
Wage~;and salaries rose just 2.7 percent in the year ended Sept. 30. down from 
3.8 percent in the prior year and the smallest advance since the department began tracking labor costs in 1982. 
' With a relatively high unemployment rate, workers o!ten have little leverage in Ilargaining for higher wages. 

page 8 The Observer Wednesday, October 28, 1992 
ELECTION '92 


ELECTION BRIEFs 
Bush slips jn some states 
•WASHINGTON -Americans' economic worries and desire for change are proving stiff obstacles to a comeback for President Bush, who is making late progress in some traditional Republican states, but in others has stalled or eve.n slipped. In two states, Washington and New York, the president even slipped below 20 percent in some recent overnight tracking polls, according to pollsters in both parties not in­volved in the presidential campaign. Bush has since rebounded a bit, but the numbers underscore his troubles in the campaign's final days. Several pollsters interviewed Tuesday said Bush's standing is remarkably stagnant in national surveys because so many voters are convinced he is not the best choice to run the economy. 
Arkansas faces crjsjs .LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -While Bill Clinton wraps up his presidential campaign this week, Arkansas' lieu­tenant governor will meet privately with legislators to plan deep post-election cuts in the state's Medicaid program. State Republicans are accusing Clinton of disguising the problem until after the election. But Clinton's administration has warned for weeks that reductions were coming. The magnitude of the cuts may surprise some, though. And a 1993 tax increase to bolster the program is not out of the question. In the last four weeks. the $878 million Medicaid program spent $15 million more than was budgeted. If the trend were allowed to continue, there would be a $120 million deficit at the end of the fiscal year, June 30, 1993. 
Blacks support Clinton .WASHINGTON -Blacks are prepared to support Bill Clinton by overwhelming margins on Election Day, a poll by a black advocacy group showed on Tuesday. Clinton got the support of 75 percent of blacks surveyed, compared to 7 percent for Ross Perot, 6 percent for President Bush and 12 percent who were undecided or had other preferences. 




Bush seizes on positive economic news 
(AP)--President Bush seized on news of stronger-than-expected economic growth Tuesday as a welcome tonic for his ailing campaign. Bill Clinton sped through the South, telling supporters who seemed ready to begin celebrating, "One more week." 
The third man in the race, independent candidate Ross Perot, stayed out of sight after two days of appearances in which he accused the Republicans of plotting "dirty tricks" against him and his family. 
"It's crazy," Bush said of Perot's allegation that Republicans were planning to disrupt his daughter's wedding. "A little bizarre," the president said of Perot's spending tens of millions of dollars on campaign ads. 
Clinton, leading in all the polls, was glad to take the high road, denouncing "all this name calling and stuff." 
Not that he was above all name­calling. In Augusta, Ga., and then again in Tampa, Fla., he gave his dramatic version of political appointees at the State Department going through his records -and then his mother's -late at night, then declared, to cheers and laugh­ter: 
"I bet it's the only time those three political hacks have worked till 10 o'clock at night the whole time Bush has been president." 
As the campaign moved into its final days, all the vice presidential candidates were out campaigning as well. 
Perot's running mate, former Vietnam prisoner of war James Stockdale, said in an interview with The Idaho Statesman in Boise that anti-war demonstrations by young Americans such as Clinton hurt the war effort, costing thousands of American lives and prolonging the captivity of POWs. 
Dan Quayle joined a Bloomington, Ill., crowd in laughingly tossing around waffles symbolizing GOP charges about Clinton's changeability. He had a tougher moment earlier, in an interview with CBS' "This Morning," when he asserted, "We have been pushing the idea that George Bush is going to make matters much, much worse." 

Democrats cut GOP edge, increase funds 25°/o 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Democratic Party, boosted by a four-year effort to improve its money-raising apparatus, made substantial inroads into Republicans' traditional fund­raising edge this election, the government reported Tuesday. 
The Democratic National Committee and its Senate and House fund-raising arms took in $85 million in the 1992 election cycle through Oct. 14, up 25.5 percent from four years ago, a Federal Election Commission analysis showed. 
And while the Republican Party still out-raised Democrats by $79 million through mid-October, its overall receipts of $164 million were down 3.7 percent compared to 1988 and its overall fund-raising edge has shrunk considerably since the summer, the FEC said. 
"This is the result of a 3 1/2-year effort to improve our fund-raising. We'll never match the GOP but at least this year we're competitive," said Melissa Moss, the DNC's finance director. 
The DNC helped increase its take this year by tapping new donors outside the party's core of supporters, particularly business executives who had leaned toward the GOP over the last decade. 
In addition, the shift in fund­raising by the two parties mirrored the fortunes of their respective presidential tickets. 
Margaret Alexander, the Re­publican National Committee's finance director, acknowledged her party has had an "up and down year" but noted fund-raising has picked up for them in the last six weeks during which they have hauled in more than $23 million. 
''I'm not that surprised about them (Democrats). I think they've been out of the White House for a long time and obviously are hoping they can win this time and that probably has some momentum behind them," she said. 
Republicans held a $95 million fund-raising edge for the 1992 cycle through June, when President Bush's standing in public polls was strong. 

TONIGHT IS YOUR CHANCE TO MEET COACH JOHN MACLEOD AND THE ENTIRE IRISH MEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM IN PERSON 

9:00p.m. THEODORE'S IN LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
Free food and beverage courtesy of General Foods and Coca-Cola 
Door prizes will be awarded 




Environment j 
Wednesday, October 28, 1992 page 9 
Clinton, Bush, Perot: Candidates on the environment 
Bill Clinton 
On the Environment: 
"I've spent the last decade, and then some, as gov­ernor of a poor state, fighting to keep jobs and make up for lost time. In the 80s, I also faced the old short­term tradeoffs between jobs and the environment, tradeoffs that were made tougher by Federal cutbacks in aid to clean up the environment and the lack of clear national policies in areas which allowed states to be played off against one another in jobs versus the environment conflicts. And in that context, I've made the choice, from time to time, for jobs because my state was a poor one without either enough jobs or enough federal help to clean up the environment." 
Global Warming and the Ozone 
Clinton supports a climate change treaty in which On the environment: the U.S. agrees to stabilize C02 output to 1990 levels "Only a growing economy can generate the resources by the year 2000. and the will to manage natural assets for the longer term 
"President Bush is dragging his feet and obstructing and the common good. But only assets which are so progress towards a new climate agreement. This managed can support the growth on which so much nation should be using its position as the world's re-human hope is hinged. By definition, for development to maining superpower and the largest generator of C02 be successful in the long-term, it has got to be to take the lead in fashioning a climate treaty and sustainable." reducing emissions, not catering to special interests Global Warming and the Ozone for short-term political advantages." Bush supports an action plan but no commitment to 
Solid Waste Management specific levels of reduction in ozone depleting substances. 
Clinton proposes creating a federal policy to deal "I will join in proposing a prompt a prompt start to with solid waste that would offer incentives for recy-adoption of climate action plans. Of course, as new and cling and source reduction and call for mandatory di-better science becomes available on climate change, we version of recyclable materials from landfills and will adjust our action plan accordingly." 
incinerators. 
Solid Waste Management

"The federal government must play a lead role in Bush signed an executive order mandating the pur­making recycling and reuse economically attractive. I chase of recycled content products by government would support a market-based system to make man-agencies. In 1988 he promised to make a national ufacturers and importers pay more of the cost of dis-commitment to reduce waste by recycling and developing posing of the goods they produce. In addition, pro-technologies that produce less waste. ducers and exporters would receive a subsidy when "I believe that most corporations want to be good they use recycled material, to increase the rate of re-environmental citizens, that they see the need for cycling. Such a system would be revenue neutral: all sustainable development. It is in the economic interest of taxes would be offset with tax cuts in other areas." industry to avoid polluting by recycling wastes, by 
Energy minimizing wastes at the source, or by changing to a 
Clinton supports a national energy conservation non-polluting process." strategy that would reward consumers who conserve Energy 
energy and make energy-wasters pay. Bush proposed a National Energy Strategy in 1990,
"I t · · t fuel
suppor an mcrease m corpora e average portions of which have passed the Senate and house. e~onomy standards from the current 27.5 mpg. No Among the proposals are increasing the utilization of s~ng.le energy mea~ure appe~rs to p~esent suc~t a natural gas, increase efficiency in coal use, and en­stgmficant opportumty for s~vmgs, natwnal secun y, courage energy efficiency. "These measures would build balance of trade, and envtronment. The 45. mpg upon our recent progress and provide continuing standar~ shoul~ be a g?al ?f a~tomakers and mcor-momentum to achieve what Americans want in the 
porated mto natwnallegtslatlon. 
Environmental issues put on back burner 

By BECKY BARNES 
Assistant News Editor 
Despite George Bush's 1988 claim to be the envi­ronmental president and Bill Clinton's appointment of environmental activist Senator AI Gore as his running mate, environmental issues have played a relatively small role in this year's presidential campaign, ac­cording to several Notre Dame professors. 
The state of the economy, the differing personalities of each candidate and the issues these differences have raised about character, and the globalization of environmental issues have all combined to push en­vironmental concerns to the back burner, said Kim­berly Gray, professor of Geological Sciences. 
Environmental issues have also not played a signifi­cant role in U.S. policy within the last four years, said Gray. This summer's Earth Summit Conference in Rio showed the United States' lack of willingness to take on a leadership role in environmental politics within the global community, she said. 
The traditional Republican view towards the envi­ronment has been one of a "necessary drag," or a "restraint," said Gray. Although President Bush did play an instrumental role in revising the Clean Air Act in 1990, it has subsequently been "gutted," she added. 
However, in terms of the Republican party's view of the environment, Bush's policies may be more posi­tively focused towards the environment than others, said Michael DePaul, professor of philosophy. "He may be even good as a Republican," he added. 
Gray criticized Vice President Dan Quayle's Council on Competitiveness, which has "made it its goal to undermine environmental activity," she said. DePaul also criticized Quayle's environmental policies. "As far as I know, the closest Dan Quayle ever gets to the environment is the golf course," he said. 
If Bush and Quayle are elected to another term, nei­ther Gray nor DePaul expect to see any changes in their environmental policy. Bush's main focus will be "economic recovery at all costs, and that cost will be the environment," said Gray. 
Both Gray and DePaul expect the Clinton/Gore ticket to take more interest in environmental issues if elected. DePaul said they have a concern for the en­vironment "apart from politicking," noting Gore's book and Clinton's willingness to choose Gore as a running mate despite the labels he may gain as a political radical. 

months and years ahead: environmental improvement and economic growth." 
Bush's personal statements were taken from his 1988 campaign platform paper A Healthy America; a June 1, 1992 address to employees at the Goddard Space Flight Center: a June 1, 1992 "Fact Sheet" issued by the White House office of the press secretary; and the President's Earth Day 1992 address. · 
Clinton Bush Perot Ross Perot 
Clinton's personal statements were taken from position . 
papers issued by the Clinton Campaign Headquarters, 0~ the envrronn;tent: . 
the League of Conservation Voters 1992 Presidential When we thmk ab.out how to use our natural re-
Profiles and an April 22 New York Times article. 
' 
George Bush 

Ron Hellenthal, professor of Biological Sciences, said the Republican party has attempted to associate Gore 
;t~:;; "far out," or radical left, as an issue of political 
Gray said that Gore's environmental strategies are "reasonable and achievable," but it depends on an 
If Clinton and Gore are elected, Gray expects to see 
.
l

them take a more active ro e m revising existing en­
individual's attitude towards the environment. 
vironmental legislation, to push the United States into a larger global role in environmental action, and to pursue programs where the government can work with businesses to develop technology that complements
environmental concerns. "Clinton and Gore best embrace a responsible position on environmental management," she said. However, Gray does not anticipate great changes in 
redirection towards environmentally aware politics. 
Gray said she did not know specifics of Perot's envi­

• 
~--~~-~-----~------~--~-~~-­~---~--­

Viewpoint 
page 10 Wednesday, October 28, 1992 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant 
Managing Editor John Rock 
News Editor ......•...........•••. David Kinney Viewpoint Editor ..........•....... Joe Moody Sports Editor .....•....... Michael Scrudato Accent Editor ......•..... Jahnelle Harrigan Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor 
Business Manager Richard Riley 

Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Systems Manager ....••...••... Patrick Barth OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Controller ..........•............. David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor~in~Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
Bush: the best choice in confusing election 
As the 1992 presidential campaign winds down, many voters across the nation remain undecided. But the time has come to decide which of the candidates is best qualified and best suited for the job. The Ob­server respectfully endorses George Bush, with hope­fulness and lingering reservation. 
While Bush's first term has been an undisputed success in terms of foreign policy. we agree that times have changed and he, too, must change. The President must heed the call that America's domestic agenda is in dire straits, and he must prove true to hts "I care" message. 
While many have echoed the need for change in presidential leadership, we believe it would be impru­dent t? close the book on Bush. Like Ronald Reagan,Bush ts a two-chapter president who needs the sup­port of an America committed to moving forward without giving in to bigger and costlier governmentalong the way. 
Bush must be given time to promote economic re­newal initiatives like NAFTA and tax credits that will strengthen private enterprise in the U.S., and the chance to implement proposals like enterprise zones that will show the country he values the lives of all individuals. 
We cannot help but be impressed by Gov. Bill Clin­ton's concerted effort to appeal to the disenchanted youth vote and his relatively moderate stance on a variety of issues. 
But tt is our belief that, if elected, Clinton would be overwhelmed and influenced by more liberal col­leagues -and likely abandon this moderate stance that attracted many Reagan Democrats. 
Voters seem to have renewed interest in Ross Perot, yet we continue to question whether his mo­tives are egotistical or if his supposed altruism is genuine. Behind Perot's fanaticism toward curing the nation's economic ills throu~h businesslike govern­ing and consensus building hes a man with no prac­tical political experience and no support from a Congress he would have to rely upon to get anything done. 
Bush already has gained this experience duringfour years that saw a faltering world economy, the collapse of communism and a war in a complex and truly foreign region. This experience and our faith that he will -in fact, must -concentrate on issues closer to home makes President Bush the best choice in this confusing race. 
DOONESBURY 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



Administration's 'zero-sum' 
Dear Editor: 

I feel it necessary to write to the Observer in response to several letters printed in the October 13, 1992 "Viewpoint" section. 
Why the authors of these let­ters (David Leege, John Roos and Ed Manier) felt they could not respond directly to Dia­logue, I do not know. Dialogue at Notre Dame has always wel­comed written letters in re­sponse to signed and unsigned articles published in the magazine. 
However, because they have brought this all important de­bate into this forum, I am obliged to respond within it. 
The letters printed in the Ob­server (and several others to be printed in this month's edition of Dialogue at Notre Dame) indicate that the implications of the University's movement to­ward a research-based univer­sity are much deeper than they may originally have appeared. 
The immediate and emphatic tone of these letters make clear the tremendous amount of pressure being placed on junior faculty members by the admin­istration. Furthermore, the let­ters resound with a shared sentiment of distress, perhaps a feeling of entrapment. 
The current Administration seems to feel that an increased emphasis on research is not in­compatible with excellence in undergraduate education. This is simply not true. 
The letters printed in the Ob­server and this month's Dia­logue, as well as the general sentiment of the undergraduate student body, indicate that the coexisting pressures of research and personalized teaching are overbearing for many faculty members. 
In the end, these professors are forced to choose between their students and their re­search deadlines. Because tenure decisions are based on endowment money earned and works published, junior profes­sors are forced to forsake their students and concentrate on research. These professors are trapped by the system which Father Malloy, Timothy O'Meara and other administra­tors have created. 
Assistant and associate pro­fessors, like Suzanne Marilley, are not deliberately forsaking their students. At least, I hope not. They are only conveying to the undergraduates what has been conveyed to them by the Administration: personal re­search agendas take prece­dence over classroom respon­sibilities, publication over edu­cation. 
Unfortunately, it seems that Father Malloy and the other powers-that-be continue to fool­ishly believe the re­search/teaching dilemma is not a zero-sum game. 
Hopefully, these administra­tors will sense the distress of the faculty members who have taken the time to write to the Observer and Dialogue. 
Perhaps they will realize the unhappiness of undergraduates being cheated of the per­sonalized education they were promised. 
Perhaps, the Administration will realize the selfish gamble they have taken in making Notre Dame a research uni­versity is a zero-sum game; a game in which students and professors are the victims. 
John S. Barry Editor-in-Chief Dialogue at Notre Dame 
Oct. 15, 1992 

r 
SIR., IF Yal Pt.AYW /W tP/3RATIONAL­BeA75 FfZL.
•I 
~ ROt& INA GCJIEM8 M£, itT'S f11551(JJ­TO FORt:t3IRAN 7l) ttXJKAT AJUY 
l ~ 
I $EKARA15RJRH05-TH& flAY-ABafT 
~' ISN'T YOt/1< BACI<. 7HI5. 
CLAIM orBaNG "(){ff 
\ ONe.

tY7H£taJP"IW an:­Rit:ifTF;4J...51fHXX?? 

'The thinking of genius does not proceed logically. It leaps with great ellipses.' 
Dorothy Thompson 

Please crawl out your window, submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Wednesday, October 28, 1992 page 11

Viewp0 i n t What if the debate were on Notre Dame football? 
better. 
That is my commitment to 
you, a change that opens a 
With all the recent debating, I world of opportunities for small thought it might be interesting as well as large programs. I to substitute one topic, "Notre want football where players Dame Football," for the various and coaches who work hard issues discussed in this year's and play by the rules are re­presidential campaign. warded, not punished. I want a 
Below the three candidates sport where teams and fans represent their constituencies, come together across the lines define the topic on their own of region and size. I know we terms, and act as they have in can do better. the three televised debates. It won't take miracles and it 
won't happen overnight, but we 
NO Football can do much, much better if we 
have the courage to change. 
Reporter: Mr. President, you Thank you very much. claim three states as your resi­Bush: A few days from now dency -Connecticut, Maine and you'll decide who you want to Texas. Which of these has the lead the football recovery. On best college football program? fairness -that's the top priority, 
Bush: Well, they all have their and I believe that my program own styles of football, but it for inter-sectional competition, comes down to who can lead small school participation, a best. I cannot talk too much brand-new approach to choos­about Notre Dame. That was ing number one, strengthening Reagan's team... that Gipper the football family, and yes, thing you know. overseas competition, is the 
ng o ever 
moment. eyI believe that my administra­way to go.
votes, or people who are sup­game in Iraq. That's a fact.
tion can best judge which is 
I don't believe in trickle-down portive of American families? 
nobody got to see the agree­best because we do not try to NCAA bureaucracy, more rules,Clinton: I'd like to respond to ment. That's a fact. I read it,have it both ways like Governor 
more sanctions against
that. You know, Mr. Bush was and they agreed to have NotreClinton. We oppose that liberal cheaters. 
very grateful when Arkansas 
Dame play in Iraq on a Cana­style of football -tackle and Football is doing well, somefootball endorsed him last time. 
dian-length field. Not just thespin. 
think it's irrelevant. I believe it's But nobody gave the president a north end zone enlarged, butPerot: Now, I come from only not. We're doing better than aproxy for this election. And Lou the whole field. I'll lay it all out
one state, see, Texas. And I 
lot. But we've got to do even
Holtz is an honest, noble 
tomorrow on MTV at 10 p.m.
know we have several great better. I ask who has the person. The facts are being 
Bush: Wait. I have to defend
football programs. But you 
judgment and the experience,distorted. I'm in the middle of
can't talk football without in­Gary J. caruso the honor of football. That is and, yes, the character to make
this. Mr. Perot thinks football is not true. I admit my mistakes,
cluding national powers. It's Capitol Comments the right decisions? 
hunky-dory. Mr. Bush says it's a and that was not one of them. 
like a dog trying to sniff a tree And so the question is, who
bad deal except for his midget grams, yet they have suffered.
that's a foot away from the end will safeguard football, who will 
league. He said to read his lips on no Playing on Foreign Soil 
of his leash. It just cannot be safeguard the participants and
I have the realistic approach new play-off arrangement, but
done. our children, the future partici­
to football. That's why coaches he endorses the bowl alliance. Clinton: Let's take Mr. Bush at
Clinton: In my opinion, one of pants? I need your support. I
in Maine, Connecticut, and Bush: But I've always said his word. But look at where I
the very best programs each ask for your support. And may
Texas endorsed my candidacy trickle down NCAA bureaucracy think the real mistake was
year IS Notre Dame. Others God bless the NCAA.
because they know that I'll have is bad. made. We should have stopped
have excellent programs too, Perot: To the millions of fine, 
a fair, hard-headed, realistic Clinton: At the last debate the coddling Saddam Hussein and
but whenever you set stan­decent people who did the un­
policy. Anybody else can run American sports fan told us that gone to Ireland or Italy or
dards, Notre Dame is the yard­thinkable and took their football
Notre Dame football down and they wanted us to stop talking Germany. Take a good idea and
stick other programs use. programs back in their own 
run the NCAA into a ditch. I about each other and talk about make it better. I'd be personally 
I believe that standards must hands and put me on the ballot,
want to change that. the issues. I'll be glad to answer responsible for such decisions. 
remain high, and in Arkansas, I pledge that tonight is just the
Bush: I think he made my any question, but this election Bush: That's what worries
as well as in many other states, beginning. These next few days 
case. On the one hand, it's a should be about the American me, that he'd do for football
football aspires to rank with will go full steam ahead with
good deal -but on the other sports fan. what he did for the Razorbacks. 
Notre Dame. I would strive to your voice on football so you get 
hand, I'd make it better. You We do not want to be the lowest 
maintain those same high your programs back. 
can't do that as president. You Foreign Sports Programs of the low. We are not in de­
standards throughout all of Watch MTV, we'll be down in
can't do it on Notre Dame's final cline. We are a rising sport. 
football. the trenches under the hood
ranking against Miami in 1989, Perot: Is there an equal time Clinton: You permitted Mr.
Bush: Look, if I make a mis­working on fiXin' the old car to
where he says, well, I was with rule tonight? Now that we've Bush to break the rules to de­
take, I admit it. That tax thing get it back on the road. 
the minority (ND) but I guess I talked all around the problem, fend football. What about the
was a mistake for me, but I Can we win? Absolutely, be­
would have voted with the let's go to the center of the honor of the Southeast Confer­
admitted it. Why won't the cause it's your football. Who do
majority (Miami) if I was a bulls-eye. Both parties have ence? We strive to meet high
Governor admit that he made a you want in the White House?
sports writer. foreign lobbyists representing standards and do not cheat.
mistake by not mentioning his You have to use your own head.
This is my point tonight. other teams in key roles in their That's going in the right direc­
own poor state, Arkansas? In Can we coach? I love that one.
We're talking about a few days campaigns. I would like them to tion.
every category they are lagging. The "we" is you and me. You
from now deciding who's gonna look you in the eye and tell you Perot: The key here, see, we
That's why the Little Rock bet your hat we can govern be­
be pres.ident. And there is a why. all come up with images. Im­
Midget Football League is en­cause we'll be in the huddle to­
pattern that has plagued him Now, the Japanese couldn't ages don't win or lose. Now if
dorsing me. gether and we will figure out
about trying to have it both play football, so they stole that's true, just tell me. I'm
Clinton: If Arkansas did not what to do, and you won't tol­
ways on all these issues. You baseball from us. Canada on the grown up, I can deal with it.
have high standards, why erate gridlock.
can't do that. And ifyou make a other hand couldn't play But in a nutshell, football
would Notre Dame hire Lou You won't tolerate fumbles
mistake, say you made a mis­baseball, so they created their doesn't work. It's supposed to
Holtz? It is ludicrous to say that and broken plays, and you
take and go on about your own football league with larger entertain, but people adore it,
since I did not mention won't tolerate nonperformance.
business, trying to serve the fields. I don't have them, and I crave it, cheat for it. We've got
Arkansas first, that they are Together we can get anything
American sports fan. haven't taken a penny from to turn this thing around. 
one of the least. done. Number one every year. 
Right now we heard it. Ross is them, and I never will.
Perot: Now, see, I grew up The president said you need
for it. I am against it. He says: Reporter: But how do you ex­Closing Statements 
five blocks frpm Arkansas, see? the right person in a crisis, say
On the one hand, I am for it; plain the success of the Blue
And I can tell you that the third and forty-three. Well,
and on the other hand, I may be Jays and Expos this year? Reporter: Gentlemen, it's time 
Texas Aggies do not like them. folks, we have a crisis. I suggest 
against it. Perot: Any brain dead person for the closing statements.
It's like trying to put two bob­you pick someone who owned 
can tell you. They play indoors. Governor Clinton is first, then
cats together in the back seat of GM and can deal with finances. 
Voodoo, Trickle-Down, and President Bush, and Mr. Perot
a Dodge. Who would you ask to be the
Black and White Issues Football Draft Status last.
Now that Dodge did not have trustee of your estate? 
.

Clinton: I thank our sponsors,
as much room as a GM product, Finally, you students, God -~ 
Clinton: That's what's wrong Bush: See, goes to show you. and I think the real winners are
like a Pontiac and so on and so bless you, I'm doing this for
with Mr. Bush. His whole deal is Build those stadiums and forget the American sports fans. They
forth. I know, I owned a part of you. I want you to have the
you've got to be for it or against those damn owls. That's good. want issues discussed, and they
GM, and the American people football dream. To all sports
it, you can't make it better. I But Governor Clinton won't want to reclaim the sport. I
put me on the ballot, not the fans, I'm doing this because I
believe that we can do better. come clean on his Canadian disagree with Mr. Perot's
Chrysler Corporation. love you. That's it. Thank you
Fans are sick and tired of ei­Football League draft status. I program, but I respect him for very much. 
ther/or solutions, being pushed played ball at Yale, got spiked bringing the national powers
The Trust Issue Reporter: Thank you gentle­
into corners, polarized to ex­and everything, but I did it. I like Notre Dame up as an issue. 
men. As a political pundit oncetremes. They want someone may be old fashioned, but I To Mr. Bush, even though we
Bush: How can you trust Bill said, "Vote early and often. But
with common sense. But I can't cannot support Americans who have profound differences, I
Clinton when he is a personal vote."
believe that he (Bush) is accus­jump to Canada. honor his ball playing days ­friend of Lou Holtz who gave ing me of getting on both sides. Reporter: Notre Dame coach spikes and all, and I wish him
money to players at Minnesota Gary J. Caruso is a graduate
In 1989 either ND or Miami Tom Clements did it with great well. I just believe it's time for a
and forced his teams to use of the University of Notre Dame _..
could have been number one. success. The Rocket is doing it change. I offer a new approach.
steroids? That is just not being and now works in Washington,
He said football bowls were now. It's not trickle-down football, it's 
in a family way. D. C. as a desktop publishing
voodoo arrangements, but he's Bush: Yes, but that's different. blocking and passing and
It comes down to who do you specialist for the United States
their biggest fan. He said They didn't organize it running as usual. But it's also
trust? Those fringe steroid us­House of Representatives. His
trickle-down NCAA divisional personally, they used agents. studying and learning and
ing groups with no values who column appears every other
play was best for small pro-Perot: Now, let's go back a graduating as well. We can do
support Clinton, who says ev-Wednesday. 
~--~~--~---~--~·­
·---~~---------~-­

Accent 
Wednesday,October28, 1992 
Jeanne Blasi 
From the Playpen 


Loftus for visitors only 
"Dear Mr. Lou Holtz: 
The football team will no longer be able to use Loftus Center. Last week, some of your players left smelly sweat socks and mud tracks in the men's locker room. 
Though it is a state of the art athletic facility, it must be kept absolutely spotless for the important visiting teams who may want to use it. Find somewhere else to practice." 
Lou would do more than demonstrate a head 
lock on the person who dared write this letter. Yet this is the situation many students and professors face with the new DeBartolo building. 
As a member of Professor Rathburn's well­researched "Shakespeare in Performance" class, we were 'exiled' from the new high-tech shrine while utilizing the facility for the needs of our class. 
This class offers the best opportunity to learn Shakespeare-through blocking and acting Shakespeare's scenes on stage and learning the meaning behind the words. 
We have all given 100% to make this class an intense but fun learning experience with trips to Chicago and Stratford to see live performances. And all of us spend outside time rehearsing with each other, and with our 'acting coach,' Mrs. MacLeod. 
It is amazing to see Shakespeare's scenes come to life. One student brought in a bush for Romeo to hide behind. Others leapt over smoking cauldrons (of dry ice) and beat drums during their eerie witch scenes from MacBeth. 
Until last week, the intimate DeBartolo auditorium was the perfect place for us to perform the fruits of our labours. Though we had to meet outside of class time, at night, to use it, the benefits of DeBartolo were well worth it. 
That is, until the building administrators became obsessed with saving the building for important 'visitors.' 
Building maintainers complained we were 'too messy.' While spilling a few leaves, dirt and wax on the floor warrants a warning, exiling our class, and highly-regarded professor, not to mention Mrs. MacLeod, is quite a harsh penalty. We did not intentionally spill anything, though we were treated as if we defaced the building. 
Only after the Bard himself (in the form of Professor Rathburn) pleaded our cause were we so graciously granted a second chance. And we were thrown out again 
'· 
This drastic measure is a grave insult to our class and a slap in the face to one of Notre Dame's finest tenured professors. 
We were told, "the building must be kept clean because there may be someone 'important' who will want to speak in that auditorium· someday." 
Are we expecting the Pope to drop in unexpectedly? Tell me, dear University Administrators, who is 'important'? 
Is DeBartolo nothing more than a shrine to modern technology for us to show off to passing visitors? 
"And to your left is the new super state-of­the-art DeBartolo classroom building. Please take your shoes off before entering" 
Arts and Letters waited 15 years for a new building. But, the buildirig is literally barred to us after 5 p.m. We are condemned to the area behind the iron curtain of the computer lab. 
If it was a matter of where the football team could practice, they'd be running practice drills in the sacred halls of DeBartolo. And when the Pope makes his surprise visit, he will stare in awe at Jerome Bettis' cleat scuffs on the beautifully polished auditorium floor. 
Once again, we, as students and faculty members of this school are faced with the question of who and what is important at this University. 
Will we continue to stand by and let these neat freaks impede our education? After all, it is we who are ND; not those barren buildings. 
Jeanne Blasi is Production Manager ofThe 
Observer. Her columns appear every third 
Wednesday in Accent. 
\\ 








Rewriting history 
The Mudd family struggles to clear the name oftheir ancestor 
F 
By Matthew Mohs Just hours before, Booth had fatally "For the past few years, con­Accent Writer shot President Abraham Lincoln and gressmen like Senator Phil Hart and had broken his leg leaping to the Representative Bob Traxler, both of ew families have as much stage from Lincoln's box while Michigan, have supported my history associated with their escaping from Ford's Theater. Dr. father's case," said Rose Marie name both here at Notre Mudd's actions helped Booth escape Nickodemus, a Saint Mary's alumna Dame/Saint Mary's and in the manhunt that had begun for him, and Richard's daughter. "President the annals of American history as the although Booth was eventually Jimmy Carter also wrote a letter sup­Mudd family. caught. porting his position (in 1979)." Over the last 120 years, the Samuel Mudd was arrested a In addition, seven state legisla­family of Dr. Samuel Mudd has been couple weeks after the assassination tures passed resolutions asking strengthening its ties to the Notre for aiding Booth's escape. He was President Carter to exonerate Dr. Dame and Saint Mary's communities. charged as a co-conspirator, found Samuel Mudd. "When the support of Samuel Mudd's daughter, Stella guilty, and sentenced to life the senators and legislatures came Marie Mudd, became Sister imprisonment. The military in," Mrs. Nickodemus explained, "the Rosamunda in the Sisters of the Holy commission that tried Mudd found fight took on a crusade level for my Cross, and was closely associated him guilty despite evidence that father." with Notre Dame. showed he was an unwitting Finally, in January of this year, 
One of his granddaughters, participant in the escape. As a Richard Mudd was allowed to Cecilia Dyer Mudd graduated from result, the adage "his name is mud." present his case before the Army Saint Mary's and joined the Sisters of hgcgmg popnlpr pt thg expense gf hjs Board for Correction of Military the Holy Cross as Sister Samuela. Records. Twenty descendents of
'If the president doesn't 
Dr. Richard Mudd, a grandson Samuel Mudd attended the hearing of Dr. Samuel Mudd, sent three of his do it, we'll take it to the in addition to other Civil War buffs daughters to Saint Mary's. Each and scholars. 
daughter married Notre Dame federal court. We'll go all On July 15, the Board recom­graduates. Rose Marie Mudd married mended to the Secretary of the Army,
the way up to the
John Nickodemus and they have sent Michael Stone, that the conspiracy three of their children, John, Bridget, supreme court if conviction be overturned. and Paul, to Notre Dame. Stone turned the case over to 
In addition, the Notre Dame necessary' his Acting Assistant Secretary of the archives contains some valuable Army, William Clark, for a decision. correspondence of Samuel Mudd that "It is not the role of the (board) to was purchased from a defunct -Dr. Richard Mudd settle historical disputes," stated Catholic publication. Clark in a memo, and thus rejected 
The family's place in the annals the board's recommendation. of American history, however, has family. Notre Dame senior Paul Nick­been insured by the life-long efforts Four years later, Lincoln's suc­odemus, Dr. Samuel Mudd's great­of Dr. Richard Mudd to clear the cessor, President Andrew Johnson great grandson, said, "I feel that name of his semi-notorious pardoned Dr. Mudd at the request of (Clark) didn't want to set a precedent grandfather, Dr. Samuel Mudd. Mudd's wife. The pardon, however, in overturning convictions. He 
Dr. Richard Mudd's crusade only released Samuel Mudd from probably felt it would open too many began in the pre-dawn hours of April prison; it did not overturn the doors for cases in the past." 15, 1865, long before he was born. conviction on the conspiracy charge. Paul's grandfather, Richard On that fateful day, his grandfather The family lived under the Mudd, however, will continue the opened the door to his home near stigma of this conviction long after crusade to restore the honor of his Bryantown, Maryland to find two Samuel Mudd died. "My father never grandfather's name. "The whole men standing there, one of them talked about it. He was terribly process has cost a lot of money, but needing medical attention for a frustrated and saddened by the it's worth it," stated Dr. Mudd. broken leg. whole affair," said Richard Mudd in "We're not going to give up." 
One man, David Herold, ex­an interview last year. He and his family have decided plained to Mudd that his friend had He began his crusade to prove to follow all avenues for an appeal. fallen from a horse and broke his leg. his grandfather's complete innocence The first route is an appeal to the Dr. Mudd had no reason to turn the and restore his family's honor. For Secretary of the Army which in turn men away and proceeded to splint over the past 70 years, Richard Mudd would lead to Secretary of Defense the other man's leg. He then allowed has researched every aspect of Lin­Dick Cheney and eventually to the travelers to stay the night and get coln's assassination and believes President Bush. some rest. there is enough evidence to warrant "If the President doesn't do it, 
As fate would have it, Dr. an overturning of the conviction. we'II take it to federal court," Dr. Samuel Mudd had just made a Many prominent people have Mudd proclaimed. "We'll go all the terrible mistake. The injured traveler supported his cause over the years, way up to the Supreme Court if was John Wilkes Booth who was including celebrities such as Ann necessary." fleeing the scene of a terrible crime. Landers and Paul Harvey. 
Free-agent Sutcliffe hopes to return to Baltimore in '93 
BALTIMORE (AP) -Rick Sut­cliffe, who has filed for free agency, hopes to return to the Baltimore Orioles, his agent says. 
Sutcliffe was one of the first players in this year's free-agent field to notify the Major League Baseball Players Association of his intention to test the market. He may begin talking with other clubs at any time, but cannot discuss money and cannot sign a contract until the 15-day free-agent filing period ends Nov. 9. 
Sutcliffe filed Monday because the Orioles told him they will not re-sign him until after the Nov. 17 National League ex­pansion draft, agent Barry Ax­elrod said. 
Any free agent signed before Nov. 17 would be eligible for the draft if he is not on a club's 15­man protected list. 
"There is no significance to the timing," Axelrod said. "We could wait until the last day, but there is no advantage to putting it off. 
"The Orioles let us know that they aren't interested in signing him (before the draft) and using up a spot on their protected list, so it was just a matter of going through the procedure." 
Sutcliffe, a 1984 Cy Young award winner, had two seasons of shoulder problems and six victories for the Chicago Cubs in 1990-91 when he became a non-compensation free agent a year ago. He was signed by the Orioles in December. 
Sutcliffe, 36, signed a one-year contract worth $1.2 million plus incentives that pushed his income to over $2 million. He went 16-15 with a 4.47 ERA in leading the majors with 36 starts this past season. 
Axelrod said that an orthope­dist gave Sutcliffe's arm and shoulder a clean bill of health during a recent examination. 
Sutcliffe is one of three 1992 Orioles eligible for free agency. Outfielder Joe Orsulak and re­lief pitcher Pat Clements also can me. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All class"ieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our  Need PSU tix  Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call  YOU WANT TO SELL ME YOUR  SHORT ON CASH ?  
NOTICES  circulars!. ..Begin NOW!...FREE packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box  Mike 234-8306  1-800-922-BEAR.  PENN STATE TIX stud. or g.a. Need 2. Patli x4947  Stop by MORRISSEY LOAN Mon.-Fri.: 11:30-12:30  
4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  1st Floor LaFortune  
ATIENTION: For more information and assistance regarding the investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the Betler Business Bureau of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 or 800-439-5313.  HURRICANE, RECONSTRUCTION AND CLEANUP, MANY NEEDED. BOTH SKILLED & UNSKILLED, MEN & WOMEN. HIGH WAGES, FOR INFO. CALL 615-779-5505 EXT. H541 STUDENTS or ORGANIZATIONS. Promote our Florida Spring Break packages. Earn MONEY and FREE trips. Organize SMALL or LARGE groups. Call Campus Marketing.  I must have B.C. tickets! Either Student or G.A.'s. My cousin and his buddies are coming in from B.C. to watch their team get slaughtered! Please help me out! I'M DESPERATE!!!III X4990 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 3 BC GA'S AND 1 PENN ST GA, PRETIY PLEASE WITH A CHERRY ON TOP. MIKE X2209  I NEED 1 BC GA, DAVE, x4506 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 PENN STATE GA's II Betsy 273-1792 (leave message} $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  SELL ME YOUR PENN STATE G.A.'s AND YOU CAN BE A PART OF ONE OF THE BIGGEST TAILGATERS IN N.D. FOOTBALL HISTORY! CALL RICH AT x1 005 Need 2 GA's for BC. Will pay top $$. Call Derek 283-4522. We NEED Penn State GA's and Boston College student OR G.A. tix! Please call at x1771  O'Hara Lounge 30 day loans up to $250 @ 1% interest MARGE Physician and Attorney wish to provide loving home for your child filled with hugs, kisses, laughter.  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  800-423-5264.  #$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$##$#$#$#$# 2 NAVY GAs for sale.  California ALUM desperate for Penn State GAs Top$. Pis lv mess. ((  Family coming for BC  Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy Collect (708} 655-3124.  
TYPING 287-4082  Help! Anyone driving to see Ned's Atomic Dustbin Nov.1 in Chi.? I need a ride, I'll help pay. Call Pete  Call JACK at 283-1747 #$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#  (415)597-2319 HELP! 92 GRAD DESPERATELY  Need both stdnt and GAs Paul @ 273-1364 or 239-5273  
BUILD-YOUR-OWN BREAKFAST SANDWICH  x1231 NEED RIDE to & from OU-Athens  NEED 2 PENN. ST. GA's 271-07 42 lv message w/price  NEEDS 2 PENN ST GAs PLEASE CALL JENNY 215-265-7346.  Need 6 ND-BC tickets call288-5474 $$ Help! Need up to 4 BC GAs. Call  COMMUNITY SERVICE HOURS ? Volunteer for RECYCLIN' IRISH  
SUNDAY, NOV.1, 1992 11:00 A.M.-1:30 P.M. NOR TH/SOUTH DINING HALL  or nearby, for Halloween! If going please call Amy X4174. FOR RENT  NEED 1 0 PENN ST GAs BIG TIME CALL PAT x2071 WILL PAY $125 FOR 2 TX TO PENN ST. DALLAS  I NEED 2 B.C. GA'S call Tom 288-1 027  Mike At x1115. $$ PERSONAL  Collection Crews HELP THE ENVIRONMENT, HELP YOURSELF!  
MUSICIANS NEEDED : guitar players esp.! For local "Kids for Saving the Earth" camping trips. Need "crazy" leaders for children's songs around campfires. Early evenings, weekends. Call Bill Staunton 272-4850 evenings: Don't delay. P.E. and Keenan! Don't forget the World Hunger Awareness Meal tonight at 5 pm  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 2 room efficiency utilities paid $7 a day 2880955 2 bedroom,clean,quite,appliances and utilities included $335 month 287-2189 # B & B -MINUTES FROM NO. 616­ ALUM WANTS TO ASK HIS FIANCE THE BIG QUESTION UNDER THE DOME! CALL 1-800­745-5402 DURING DAY HOURS. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$De sperately Need 2 BC GA's JOSH X41 07 leave message $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ THE 'RENTS ARE COMING! And they need penn tix! Please call Ann x4508  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ You have what I want You have what I want and I am willing to pay for it yes, I will pay for it !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! PLEASE GIVE IT TO ME I desperately need it NOW!! Your right, I NEED GAs  HeyNiff AMANDA KAY have a wonderful day OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Please let us help you in this difficult time. Confidential and legal. Medical  EASY! FUN! CALL Becky at #4836 for info. COMMUNITY SERVICE HOURS ? Loving young couple want to adopt baby. Mom a teacher will stay home full time. Call Laura/Brian collect 708-482-7576 or 312-220-3194  
in the CSC for those who signed up! 663-8308-NILES r~~;;;;~UND ~~,..---F-O_R_S_A_L_E_ _, I have a roundtrip ticket from Found: gold colored bracelet found O'Hare to LAX and 3 NO/USC GA's in front of Alumni. Call Dave at 239­for sale. Call John 271-2822. 7018 to claim. FOR SALE: FOUND: A SMALL COMPUTER TREK 300 BIKE, $225 OBO. ALL  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED B.C. TICKETS!!! GREAT MONEY ... CALL ANGELA 283-2729 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$  KYLIE 287-9118 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Got $$$ Need 4 PENN ST GAs Call Ben at x3797 Needed -2 to 4 tickets to the Nov. 7 game vs BC. Please call (517} 337-4973.  expenses paid. Collect anytime. (818} 246-1763 ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Confidential and legal. Expenses paid. Call Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805} 520-5978 or atlorney (818} 241­5535.  11!!11!!!!1! Hobbes is still not 21, too bad some day you'll drink with us I! I I I I! ! I I ! Doctor and teacher will make dreams for your baby come true.  
NEAR STEPS ON JUNIPER GOING TO FLANNER. CALL & IDENTIFY. 239-7957 OR 272-1112 EVENINGS. SEIKOWATCH ROMAN NUMERALS  SHIMANO COMPONENTS. EXCELLENT CONDITION. 271­0370. For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call Rita Delivery on Campus 234-6524  NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S PAUL X1450 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$ REALLY NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S!II! CALL DOUG AT 273-1758  I NEED PSU GA'S MEGAN4222 ******BYU*PENN STATE•Bc•••••• FOR SALE: 2 stud tix books for all remaining games. Will sell all together or each game.  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Information on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Australia. We represent 28 Australian Universities. Call us toll free 1-800-245-2575.  Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach. Your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212}  
BLACK BAND LOST AT BYU GAME SENTIMENTAL VALUE  SC FOR THANKSGIVING? I have a plane ticket. ..  FOOTBALL TIX WANTED 2-3 tix for any game. Call (317}  X3346 Lee or Levell Need 6 BC GA's Call Scott x 1157  I desperately need NAVY tix. Will pay big $. Call Erin X4842.  369-2597.  
REWARD #2933 WANTED ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn $5000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545­4155 ext A5584.  DIRT CHEAP please call LuAnn at X 4792 Cheap trip to southern vactionland! Selling a plane ticket to North Carolina over Thanksgiving Break. You name the price. Call DAVE at 283-3662. TICKETS NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX CALL JOE OR JAY X1760  743-2385 between 5-6PM Wkdays. I need 1 Penn State ticket, student or G.A. Becky 233-4925 I need one GA for BC and one student ticket or GA for Penn State. Will Pay!!! Bill #2002 I need 3 BC GAs. Even 1 or 2 would be GREAT! Call Jen x3848 For sale 2 Navy GA's 617-491-8433  HELP! I NEED 2 B.C. TICKETS EITHER GA OR STUDENT CALL KATIE X1262 FOR SALE: 2 Tix for NO vs. NAVY Call Michelle x4416 GOOD$ FOR PENN ST TIX NICK X4284  Betly-I promise I will say the word, just stay with me. Love you more than the world -Fred RIDE NEEDED -Scranton, PA area for Thanksgiving. Pis call Bryan 3320 Thanks for all your help, Dan! Enjoy the games enough for both of us... Erin Tim Anderson-YOUR DIXIE WRECKEDI!!I Love, Box  Have you turned in your LONDON PROGRAM APPLICATION??? Oh My God, Yes!!! It's Maria Monaco's Birthday! Happy Birthday, Maria!!! Love Always, BOB  
Arthur Victor Painting Inc. is looking for Branch Managers for summer '93. Experience helpful but not necessary; complete training and field support. High income potential. 800-775-4745 Actors/Actresses Needed!! Student film, exp. nee. Call Pat 287-4227. NEEDED: TUTOR for 3rd grade  I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.272-6306 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston College GAs or student tix. Call Jill @ x4758 or x4721. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED PENN STATE TIX-call Sam x4842  NOV. 71S MY BIRTHDAY. .. PLEASE HELP ME OUT BY SELLING ME YOUR BOSTON COLLEGE G.A.'s CALL JOE AT x3426 DESPERATELY NEEDED!!!!!! 2-4 STUDENT TIX FOR BOSTON COLLEGE! My friends are poor but If you are nice and aren't planning on going they would appreciate your help. Call JON X3592.  I NEED ONE B.C. STUDENT TICKET CALL JEN -273-2527 HELP ME! I desperately need BC Student or GA tickets! Call Ellen x4294 Need Penn State Tickets Please call: Kara x4174  Top Ten Quotes from Rockhounds '92: WRETCHED in Arkansas 10. Did you get the license number on that Winnebago? 9. Ya coulda found a quieter place to do yer work! You studyin' zoology? 8. Is this the Big Fork Cherk? 7. I think it's easier not to get any than to get some.  Attn. SMC Community: Soph. Board is collecting items to aid the victims of Hurricane Andrew. Please donate what you can. Boxes will be in all the main entrances of the buildings until Friday Oct. 30. Thanks for your support!  
boy in SB. I tutored him last year but I graduated. Please call me collect in NY for more info Mike Ferguson 718-325-9642 or call CSC Exchange student seeks to rent room with a family or with other students. Contact 283-3115 Help!! I need a ride anywhere SE of here. Thu or Fri. Will pay gas ... Give Sean a call at x1067  Need One Ticket For Boston College!!! Call273-2967!!! Need Penn St. Ga's -big $$$ Lisa 288-5196 .......NEED PSU Tlx········ Call Laurie x2998 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Help! Help! I need 4 GA's for B.C. Please call Julie X2862  WE NEED BC STUD TIX BADLY! CALL KEV OR MIKE AT x1103 $$$$$$$$$$ HELP! I need 1 BCGA TIM x2763 ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY. 1 HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 618-439-3338.  Need 2 BC GA's Joe #1112 NEED PENN STATE GA'S MATI x1802 I NEED B.C. TICKETS!! CALL DAVE 271-7131  6. Have you all been to confession lately? 5. Get back down there! 4. She don't take to no one petlin' her. 3. This is Lost Sheep to Big Daddy Cane...Over 2. I've heard of Help Your Neighbor, but it's more like Up and Down the River Without a Paddle. 1 . Pearl Light: From the Land of 1100 Springs!  LYONS HALL WHODUNIT? Clue#1 The murder follows the rule Neither a Borrower nor Bender be And furthermore we will admit A Hoosier is not the key But don't be stumped, never fear The solution will become quite clear  


NHL STANDINGS  TRANSACTIONS  NFL TEAM STATS  
WALES  CONFERENCE  BASEBALL  TOTAL YARDAGE  AVERAGE PER GAME  
Patrick  Divlalon  American  league  AMERICAN  FOOTBALL  CONFERENCE  AMERICAN  FOOTBALL  CONFERENCE  

page 14 The Observer Wednesday, October 28. 1992 

Pittsburgh NY Rangers NY Islanders New Jersey Philadelphia Washington Adame Division  w 7 7 5 5 3 3  l 0 2 3 4 6 6  T 2 t t 0 2 0  Pta t6 15 t1 10 8 6  GF 49 4t 36 32 42 28  GA 29 28 32 33 49 35  Home 5­O·t 5­O·t 3­0·0 4­2·0 2· 2-t 2· 3·0  Away 2· 0-t 2· 2·0 2· 3-t t· 2·0 t· 4-t 1· 3-0  Dtv 2· O·t 5­2·0 4­3·0 4­3·0 2· 4-t (). 5·0  CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Announced they will not offer salary arbitration to Ken Oberkfell, infielder; Mike Fitzgerald, catcher, and Hubie Brooks, inllelder·deslgnaled hitter. NEW YORK YANKEES-Declined to exercise the t993 option on Scott Sanderson, p~cher. National league COLORADO ROCKIES-Named Don Baylor  OFFENSE Bullalo Houston Miami Pittsburgh San Diego L.A. Raiders  Yarde 2844 2748 2604 24t3 2230 24t0  Rush 985 760 659 tOto 836 862  Pau t859 t988 t945 t403 t394 t548  OFFENSE Buffalo Houston Miami P~tsburgh San Diego L.A. Raiders  Yards 406.3 392.6 372.0 344.7 318.6 30t.3  Rush 140.7 t08.6 94.t t44.3 tt9.4 t07.8  Pass 265.6 284.0 277.9 200.4 199.1 193.5  
Boston Montreal Buffalo Quebec Hartford Ottawa CAMPBELL  6 1 5 3 5 3 4 3 3 6 1 7 CONFERENCE  t 2 0 t 0 0  13 t2 10 9 6 2  41 47 40 38 26 t8  26 38 30 30 36 40  2· 3­4· 2· t· 1·  0·1 O·t 1·0 1·0 3·0 2·0  4­2· t· 2· 2· ().  1·0 3-t 2·0 2-t 3-0 5-0  2· t· 2· 2· 2· t·  0·0 2·0 t·O 0·0 3·0 4·0  manager. PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Announced they will not offer salary arb~ration to Wally Backman, second baseman. Declined to exercise the t993 option on Ken Howell, pitcher. Named Mike Arbuckle scouting director. American Asaocistlon  New York Jets Kansas City New England Cleveland Denver Indianapolis Cincinnati  2076 2t89 t772 t755 t956 t705 t677  726 907 526 675 706 47t 827  1350 t282 t246 t080 t250 t234 850  New York Jets Kansas City New England Cleveland Denver Indianapolis Cincinnati  296.6 273.6 253.t 250.7 244.5 243.6 239.6  t03.7 tt3.4 75.t 96.4 88.3 67.3 tt8.t  192.9 160.3 178.0 154.3 156.3 176.3 121.4  
Norris Division  BUFFALO  BISONS-Named  Doc  Edwards  Seattle  t527  676  85t  Seattle  t90.9  84.5  106.4  
W l T Minnesota 5 3 1 Toronto 5 3 1 Detroit 5 4 0 Tampa Bay 4 4 1 Chicago 3 5 St. Louis 3 6 Smythe Division Calgary 6 3 0 Los Angeles 5 3 t Vancouver 4 3 1 Winnipeg 4 6 o Edmonton 1 8 1 San Jose 1 8 0 Monday's Games New York Rangers 8, Philadelphia 4 Winnipeg 6, Washington 2 St. Louis 4, San Jose 1 Tuesday's Games Pittsburgh at Ottawa. late. Tampa Bay at Quebec, late. Los Angeles at New York Islanders, late. Wednesday's Games New Jersey at Hartford, 7:40p.m. Buffalo at Toronto, 7:40p.m. Tampa Bay at Montreal, 7:40p.m. San Jose at Detro~. 7:40p.m Calgary at Winnipeg, 8:40 p.m. Minnesota at Edmonton, 9:40 p.m Washington at Vancouver, 10:40 p.m. Thursday's Games Los Angeles at Boston. 7:40p.m. Quebec at New York Rangers, 7:40p.m. Philadelphia at Chicago, 8:40p.m. Pittsburgh at St. Louis, 8:40p.m. NBA PRESEASON  Pta GF GA Home Away Div 11 35 33 3­1·1 2· 2·0 4· t·O 11 35 29 ,.,4· 2·0 t· 3­t·O 10 37 37 2· 1·0 3­3-0 t· 1·0 9 32 28 3­t·O 1· 3-t 2· 3-t 7 33 32 2· 2·1 1· 3·0 2· 2·1 7 3t 42 2· 4·t t· 2·0 1· 5·0 12 36 24 3­2·0 3­1·0 4· 2·0 11 37 34 4· 1·0 2· 2·0 4­2·0 9 33 26 2· t-0 2· 2·1 4· 0·0 8 37 42 4· t·O (). 5·0 2· 4·0 3 24 50 (). 3-t t· 5·0 (). 5·0 2 22 47 1· 3·0 (). 5·0 1· 2·0 RESULTS NEW YORK (AP) ­The American League Managers of the Year as selected by the Baseball Writer's Association of America (the BBWAA began selecting In 1983): t983-Tony LaRussa, Chicago t984-Sparky Anderson, Detro~ t985 ­Bobby Cox, Toronto 1986 ­John McNamara, Boston 1987 ­Sparky Anderson, Detro~ t988-Tony LaRussa. Oakiand 1989-Frank Robinson, Baltimore 1990 ­Jeff T orborg, Chicago t991-Tom Kelly, Minnesota t992-Tony LaRussa, Oakland  manager and signed him to a two-year contract. Named Tom Dettore pitching coach, Don Werner hitting Instructor, and Mike Sandoval trainer. BASKETBALL National Basketball Association NBA-Fined Detroit's Olden Polynice, $8,000 and Phoenix's Tom Chambers, $3,500 for an altercation during the Pistons-Suns game on Oct. 23. Fined Phoenix's Charles Barkley, Danny Alnge and Oliver Miller $500 apiece for leaving the bench area during the incident. Fined Seattle's Shawn Kemp, $8,000 and Denver's Scott Hastings, $2,500 for their roles In an altercation during the SuperSonics-Nuggets game on Oct. 22. NBA PLAYERS ASSOCIATION-Named Alex English director of player programs and services. GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS-Waived Steve Henson, guard. FOOTBALL National Football League NEW ORLEANS SAINTS-Activated Vince Buck, cornerback, from the Injured reserve. Cut Cedric Mack. cornerback. Waived Louis Lipps, wide receiver. TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS-Placed Rogerick Green, defensive back, on injured reserve. HOCKEY National Hockey League BOSTON BRUINS-Assigned Mike Parson, goaltender, to Erie of the East Coast Hockey League. NEW JERSEY DEVILS-Recalled Bill Guerin. winger, from Utica of the American Hockey League, and Jarred Skaide, center, from Cincinnati of the international Hockey League. NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Re-s1gned Tom Fitzgerald, center, to a multiyear contract. East Coast Hockey league ERIE PANTHERS-Waived Chris Harvey, goaltender, and Jason Brousseau. wing. SOCCER  DEFENSE Yards Rush Kansas City 2t 05 847 San Diego t850 536 Pittsburgh t 85t 676 Houston t947 758 L.A. Raiders 2238 836 Seattle 2273 tote Miami 2099 540 Bullalo 2t54 645 New York Jets 22t7 920 Indianapolis 2255 747 Cleveland 2284 732 New England 2378 964 Denver 2844 t 007 Cincinnati 269t 846 NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE OFFENSE Yards Rush San Francisco 3063 tt84 Chicago 2533 906 Dallas 2402 876 Minnesota 2380 8tt Tampa Bay 2284 769 New York Giants 2266 t025 Philadelphia 2t85 t066 Washinglon 2t77 834 New Orleans 2097 665 Atlanta 2086 490 Green Bay t99t 626 Detroit t976 574 Phoenix t937 553 L.A. Rams t92t 695 DEFENSE Yards Rush Philadelphia t723 496 Dallas t752 569 Washington t76t 565 Minnesota t77t 673 New Orleans t949 73t New York Giants 2t33 77t  Paaa t258 t3t4 1t75 tt89 t402 t255 t559 t509 t297 t508 t552 t4t4 t837 t845 Pass t899 t627 t526 t569 t5t5 t24t ttt9 t343 t432 t596 t365 t402 t384 t226 Pasa t227 tt83 tt96 t098 t2t8 t362  DEFENSE Yards Kansas City 263.t San Diego 284.3 Pittsburgh 264.4 Houston 278.t L.A. Raiders 279.8 Seattle 284.t Miami 299.9 Buffalo 307.7 New York Jets 316.7 Indianapolis 322.t Cleveland 326.3 New England 339.7 Denver 355.5 Cincinnati 384.4 NATIONAL FOOTBALL OFFENSE Yords San Francisco 437.6 Chicago 361.9 Dallas 343.t Minnesota 340.0 Tampa Bay 326.3 New York Giants 323.7 Philadelphia 3t2.t Washington 3tt.O New Orleans 299.6 Atlanta 298.0 Green Bay 284.4 Detroit 282.3 Phoenix 276.7 L.A. Rams 274.4 DEFENSE Yards Philadelphia 246.t Dallas 250.3 Washington 25t.6 Minnesota 253.0 New Orleans 278.4  Rush Paaa t06.0 t57.3 77.0 t87.7 97.0 167.9 toe.o t69.9 t05.0 175.3 127.0 156.9 77.0 222.7 92.0 2t5.6 t31.0 185.3 t07.0 2t5.4 t05.0 22t.7 t38.0 202.0 t26.0 229.6 t2t.O 263.6 CONFERENCE Rush Pass t66.3 27t.3 t29.4 232.4 t25.t 2t8.0 tt5.9 224.t t09.9 2t6.4 146.4 177.3 152.3 t59.9 tt9.t t9t.9 95.0 204.6 70.0 228.0 89.4 t95.0 82.0 200.3 79.0 t97.7 99.3 t75.t Rush Pass 71.0 t75.3 8t.O t69.0 8t.O t70.9 96.0 156.9 t04.0 t74.0  
American  Professional  Soccer  League  Tampa Bay  2t67  695  t472  New York Giants  304.7  ttO.O  t94.6  
Monday's Games New Jersey t20, Cleveland tt6, OT Minnesota tt4, Washington t05 Portland t 05, Denver t 04 Tueaday'a Games Utah at New York. late. Indiana at Charlotte, late. Atlanta at Orlando, late. Phoenix at Miami, late.  Wednesday's Gomes Utah at Boston, 7:30p.m. Orlando at Atlanta, 7:30 p.m. Cleveland vs. New Jersey at Ottawa. 7:30p.m. Sacramento vs. Chicago at Buffalo. N.Y .• 7:30 p.m. Phoenix at Detroit, 7:30 p.m. Washington vs. LA Lakers at Memphis, Tenn.. 8:30p.m.  COLORADO FOXES-Signed Kim Roenrved. midfielder, to a three-year contract. COLLEGE ARIZONA STATE-Named Bill Kinneberg pitching coach. CLEMSON-Suspended Wayne Simmons, linebacker, for one game after being charged with assault and battery. MURRAY STATE-Announced the resignation of  Detroit Chicago L.A. Rams San Francisco Green Bay Phoenix Atlanta  222t 23t0 23t0 232t 2398 2456 2746  852 726 t065 609 922 988 946  t369 t584 t245 t7t2 t476 t468 teoo  Tampa Bay Detroit Chicago L.A. Rams San Francisco Green Bay Phoenix Atlanta  309.6 3t7.3 330.0 330.0 33t.6 342.6 350.9 392.3  99.0 t22.0 t04.0 t52.0 87.0 132.0 t4t.O t35.0  2t0.3 t95.6 226.3 t77.9 244.6 2t0.9 209.7 257.t  
Philadelphia vs. Boston at Providence, R.I., late. Golden State at Minnesota, late.  Seattle vs. Denver at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. 9p.m.  Mike Mahoney, football coach, effective at the end of the season.  
Sacramento vs. LA Lakers at St. Louis, late. Dallas vs. Houston at Mexico C"y, late.  Thursday's Games Indiana at San Antonio, 8:30p.m.  TEXAS-ARLINGTON-Named athletic director.  B.J.  Skelton  
Golden State vs. Denver at Winnipeg, Manitoba.  
8:30p.m.  

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
AssociATE VtcE PRESIDENT 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 UNIVERSITY RELATIONS 
219/239-S 122 
October 20, 1992 

To the Editor of the Observer: 
. As the major filming of the movie "Rudy" gets underway may I rem~nd.the~otre Dame community that some minor inconvenienc~s will 
come w1th 1t. 
. Members of the production company and others involved in the mov1e are very appreciative of the hospitality thus far extended them, ?nd they hope to make their own small contribution to the educat1onal endeavor here, principally through liaison with the Depart~ent.of Art, Art History and Design and the Department of Commun1cat1on and Theater. 
Please understand, however, that some minor disruption of campus routine is inevitable. You may not be able to use a customary sidewalk on a given afternoon, or find a roadway briefly closed o~ a campus location temporarily off-limits. The producers are comm1tted to keeping these to a minimum but they ask yourforbearance and patience in advance. ' 


---------------~----------~-----,...._____ 
page 15 

Baylor named Rockies' manager 
DENVER (AP) -Don Baylor, long considered a top candidate to run a team but bypassed twice last year, became the fourth minority manager in the major leagues when he was hired Tuesday by the expansion Colorado Rockies. 
Baylor, 43, played for six American League teams in a 19-year career as an outfielder, fir:st baseman and designated hitter, playing in three World Series and seven AL playoffs. He had a .260 career average, 338 homers and 1,276 RBis and was hit by pitches a record 255 times. He was the American League's Most Valuable Player in 1979, when he hit 36 homers, drove in 139 runs and scored 120 runs for the Cali­fornia Angels. 
Baylor was batting coach for the St. Louis Cardinals last sea­son after being a finalist for that team's manager position in 1990. Baylor was batting coach with the Milwaukee Brewers in 1990 and 1991. 
Baylor is the fourth minority manager in the major leagues, joining Cito Gaston of Toronto, Hal McRae of Kansas City and Felipe Alou of Montreal. 
General manager Bob Geb­hard said Baylor, signed to a three-year contract, agrees with his philosophy that expan­sion teams don't necessarily have to be losers. 
"Even though this is an ex­pansion team, we must teach these young kids how to win," Baylor said. "If I tell our young guys in spring training, 'We're going to lose 100 games, just stick with me,' that doesn't work. You need enthusiasm to carry you through September. 
"I don't know who wrote that rule that you have to lose 100 games if you're an expansion team. We're going to change the thinking of being an ex­pansion team. 
"We're not setting goals; what we want to set is a new attitude. Every man we pick for the 25-man roster should be enthused to go out there every night, or he shouldn't be in baseball." 
"I looked for a patient man to deal with our young players and be a teacher," Gebhard said. "But I also wanted some­one who still had a burning de­sire to win baseball games, which is the reason we're all here. I think we're getting a quality leader for our young ball club." 
Considered a "manager on the field" because of his leadership qualities, Baylor played in three World Series and seven AL playoffs. In the latter stages of his career, he was acquired by Boston, Minnesota and Oakland to help those teams win pennants. 
Baylor, who will wear uniform No. 25, said he was intrigued by the opportunity to lead an expansion team. 
"It was new, this was a chance to set my own benchmark, to see what I could create," he said. "Other organizations already had their traditions. Now we can set our own mark here in the Rockies." 
He said he never despaired of finally getting a managerial position, and said his race had nothing to do with either failing to win other jobs or winning this one. 
"I never got into the race part," Baylor said. "I tried to be honest with people and was hopeful I'd get one of those jobs. The Colorado Rockies job is more than I could have bar­gained for." 
He said he hoped his selection "might increase the opportunity level for other minorities in baseball." 
Baylor said former Baltimore Orioles manager Earl Weaver and former California Angels manager Gene Mauch are his managing idols. "I'm taking the good with the bad, and trying to blend in my own personality," he said. "One thing I know a manager has to do is keep the lines of communication open with his players." 




FRIGHT NIGHT 
FREE MOVIE MARATHON 
OCTOBER 30, 1992 
Ballroom (formally Theodores) LaFortune Student Center 
11:30pm  Halloween  
1:15am  GraveyardShift  
3:00am  Friday The IJth  
4:45am  Nightmare On Elm Street  
6:30am  Pet Sematary  


Fint 140 receive a free goolish goodie bag FREE POPCORN AND SODA FOR ALL 

Soccer 
continued from page 20 
But the roller coaster ride continued Monday at Loyola. The Irish traveled to Chicago to complete the final 20 minutes of the game that was sus­pended on October 14 due to heavy rains and lightning. 
Pendergast and Bryden each scored for the Irish, but the Ramblers offense was rolling also, and the game was tied at 2-2 when play resumed Monday night. Vince Vasseman provided the back-breaker for the Irish at the 74:03 mark, giving Loyola a 3-2 win and their second consecutive Mid­western Collegiate Conference win over Notre Dame. 
The loss drops Notre Dame to 9-6-1 overall and 4-2 in the MCC, with only one conference game remaining in the regular season, Thursday night at But­ler. 
reduce reuse recycle  
~t-l ESJl~ ~~ ~i Spanish Mass ~ domingo, 1 de Noviembre de 1992 10:30 a.m. Breen-Phillips Chapel Todos Estan lnvitados All Are Welcome Sponsored by(N0PUS CAmpus Mln1stry Prima Vera ChofrMINISTRY Celebrante Padre Tim Scully, C.S.C.  

Rice approaching Largent's mark 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. (AP) ­They way he's going, Jerry Rice could at any time surpass former Seattle receiver Steve Largent's NFL career record of 100 touchdown receptions. 
The San Francisco 49ers' Pro Bowl wide receiver is three TDs short of the mark in his eighth season. That puts him six sea­sons ahead of Largent's pace. 
Yet, the last few legs of Rice's journey have not been without some frustrations. He talked about some of them as he sat by his locker, occasionally tugging at the beard he grew recently because he was tired of his baby face. 
Rice, who caught 55 of his 97 touchdown receptions from Joe Montana, admitted his alliance with Steve Young has been uneasy at times. He said he's still adjusting to the differing style of Young, a longtime backup who has blossomed into a top-rated passer during the past season and a half while chronic elbow problems keep Montana sidelined. 
"Steve and I, we'll have to grow and just work at it. It's not going to happen overnight," said Rice, who privately favored the more disciplined Steve Bono over the scrambling Young during a mini quarterback controversy in training camp. 
But Rice has bit his tounge through the 49ers' 6-1 start, which Young has been a big part of, with his Montana-like passing precision and, yes, some scrambling as well. 
Young has downplayed his running this season and said he, too, would like to get the 
Holtz 
continued from page 20 
squad has also had its troubles, especially on the offensive side of the ball. The Midshipmen did not score in their first three games, losing by a combined score of 121-0 to Virginia, Boston College and Rutgers. 
However, Holtz expects to be surprised by Navy coach Ge­orge Chaump, who has a pen­chant for calling trick plays. 
"We don't know exactly what
I 
[ to prepare for, because we don't know what they're going to do on offense," said Holtz. 
Chaump utilizes several dif­
r 
ferent formations and ap­proaches during a game. With Jason Van Matre at quarter­back, he has been known to run the option often. 
The Irish will have to attack Navy without tight end Oscar McBride and guard Todd Nor­man, both of whom sustained injuries Saturday. Fullback Jerome Bettis, who gained 113 yards on 21 carries against BYU is questionable, though he will likely play if he able to practice Thursday. 
ball as much as possible to Rice, who shares the team lead in receptions (30) with Ricky Watters. 
"What made (the Montana­Rice connection) special was it was very productive. So yeah, I very much want to keep that going ... and I think we have been," said Young, who has thrown 26 touchdown passes to Rice, including four this season. 
Rice also has caught touch­down passes from Jeff Kemp (8) and Bono (5), as well as one each from Matt Cavanaugh, Mike Moroski and fullback Harry Sydney. 
But Rice said he's also had to accept a diminished role as first-year coordinator Mike Shanahan introduced subtle scheme changes and placed an increased emphasis on offen­sive diversity. 
"We don't have the same scheme," Rice said. "It has changed in that we're not de­pending on two or three guys to win the football game anymore. We're working together as a group. That's about it. 
"It's just not the same old deal. Like when Bill Walsh was here and Joe, when he was the quarterback. I knew they would get me the football even if I'm doubled. 
"Right now, if the guys are trying to double me, then Steve is not going to force the ball in to me and Mike Shanahan isn't going to feel desperate to get me the ball." 
Young, who has thrown two of his four interceptions on passes intended for Rice, insists only the personalities have changed, 

not the 49ers' basic offensive 
plan. 

He cited other factors in Rice's 
slow start, including increased 
double coverage in the absence 
of receiver John Taylor, out 
with a broken leg. Rice also 
missed most of training camp 
because of a lengthy contract 
holdout. 

"Honestly, I think a lot of it is Jerry believing that even if he's triple covered, he's open," Young said. "I think that's what makes him special. ... That's why he's going for 100 touchdowns. I really believe that if there's a way for us to get the ball to Jerry, we're go­ing to get the ball to him. 
"I do think there was frustra­tion building because we don't like people being able to dictate to us how we're going to get the ball out to people. But our feeling is, 'Hey, we can fight through this.'" 
Before breaking through for three touchdowns -two on pass receptions and one on a reverse -in San Francisco's 56-17 drubbing of Atlanta on Oct. 18, Rice had just two scor­ing receptions in the previous six games. 
The three scores against At­lanta gave him 102 career touchdowns, including five on runs, as Rice became just the eighth player in NFL history to hit the century mark. He has played in 115 games, including 102 consecutive starts for an average of nearly one touch­down a game. 
On top of that, he has caught at least one pass in 102 straight games. 
HALLOWEEN f R I GH7-N I GH7 AT SMC 'fiiURSDAY, OCTOBER 29 FROM 6:00-8:30 
HAGGAR COLLEGE CENTER 




COLLEGE REPUBLICANS 
vs. 

COLLEGE. DEMO-CRATS DEBATE 
TONIGHT 7:00 LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 


LaRussa named AL's top manager 
NEW YORK (AP) -Tony La Russa, who led Oakland to its fourth AL West title in five years, won his third American League Manager of the Year award on Tuesday. 
La Russa, who kept the team in contention during the first half of the year despite injuries to key players, received 25 of 28 first-place votes in balloting by the Baseball Writers Asso­ciation of America. He got two secon:d-place votes and one third for 132 points in the bal­loting, which is done on a 5-3-1 basis. 
''I'm definitely thrilled," La Russa said during a telephone conference call from Scottsdale, Ariz., where he was involve.d in the A's instructional league. 
"It's not something you expect when the season starts. I think I understand the significance of the award. You don't take it personal. It's an award that the team generates and the organization is responsible for and if ever that was true, it was true in 1992." 
Phil Garner, who kept the Milwaukee Brewers in con­tention in the AL East until the final weekend of the season, was second with 76 points. He received two first-place votes, 21 seconds and three thirds. 
''I'm happy for him. I'm glad he won it," Garner said. "I've been asked, 'Were you disap­pointed? Were you shooting for it? Did you have hopes?' But really not. We had a great year. My gratification comes from the way the players responded to the type baseball we wanted to play. 
"This award, although it would have been nice to have had it, is certainly not some­thing I longed for. The gratifi­cation I have is from the way we played this summer. We did everything we could to win, even though we came up a little short." 
Johnny Oates of the Baltimore Orioles finished third with 27 points on four second-place votes and 15 thirds. Cito Gas­ton, who led the Toronto Blue Jays to Canada's first World Series title, was fourth with 13 points from one first-place vote, one second and five thirds. Mike Hargrove of the Cleveland Indians got four points from four third-place votes. 
La Russa, 48, won the initial AL manager's award from the writers in 1983 for leading the Chicago White Sox to the AL West title. He won it again in 1989 for leading the A's to the first of three straight AL pen­nants. 
He spread the credit around for his latest award to his play­ers and the coaching staff but singled out the work of pitching coach Dave Duncan. 
· "The one guy I think it would be a crime not to acknowledge is Dave Duncan," LaRussa said. "I dont think it's any co­incidence that the first time I won the award in '83 is the first year we were together. When we won three straight AL pen­nants from 1988 to 1990, pitching was our hallmark and Duncan orchestrated it. 
"This year our bullpen was 
restructured and we had prob­
lems keeping our starting rota­
tion intact but somehow we 
ended up with a pitching staff 
with a 3. 70 ERA and 96 wins. 
So, I'm p:r;-oud of what the staff 
and coaches can do. This was . the most demanding year for 
any club I've ever been a part 
of and still been successful, and 
the players also deserve a ma­
jority of the credit for that." 
Oakland had significant in­
juries this year, disabling 16 
players a club-record 22 times. 
Among them were outfielders 
Dave Henderson, Rickey Hen­
derson and Jose Canseco; 
pitchers Dave Stewart and Bob 
Welch, catcher Terry Steinbach 
and first baseman Mark MeG­
wire. In addition, pitchers Kirk 
Dressendorfer and Joe Klink 
missed the entire season. 
Despite all that, the />:s moved 
into first place for good on Aug. 
4 during an eight-game winning 
streak, then used a 10-game 
winning streak to extend the 
page 17 
-

AP Oakland A's skipper Tony LaRussa received his third American League Manager of the Year award Tuesday. 
lead over Minnesota to 8 1/2 most rewarding," La Russa games by Sept. 18. Oakland said. "No matter what the ad­won the division by six games versity, and it was piling on and over the 1\vins. on, this club just never gave in 
"In the end, because it was so to it, and for that I'll never for­tough, it was also one of the get 'em." 
the game." tion. "In the summer prior to my
Kicker 
He plans on entering a new senior year I had it in the back continued from page 20 phase next season, using his of my mind that I might try out extra year of football eligibility with the intent of playing my
twice a week between soccer. 
as a full-time placekicker. With fifth year."
"The first few months (of last 
Hentrich graduating, walk-ons So while Pendergast may
year), I was kind of inconsistent 
Drew Marsh, Rob Leonard and adapt to the new sport like a
in practice, shanking kickoffs 
Stefan Schroffner along with a chameleon, he'll still don the
and missing kicks. But now I'm 
top high school recruit will same colors-blue and gold.
pretty confident in all aspects of 
serve as Pendergast's competi-

TH 
~NNIVERSARY SALE Now IN PROGRESS 

Wednesday, 1Fll'tete Appetizer Buffet Thursday, 1Fll'tete Pizza Buffet Friday... 1Fll'tete Cake and Prizes Saturday, Notre Dame vs. Navy Halloween Costume Contest With $$$ Prizes 
PHONE:2 7--Sport 
2046 South Bend Ave.•South Bend 
Monday-Thursday 11:30 a.m.-1:00 a.m. • Friday & Saturday 11:30 a.m.-2:00a.m. 
St. Ed's-Fianner to meet for IH baseball championship 
Observer Staff Report round, St. Ed's defeated Fisher 1-0 in 10 innings and in the 
The men's interhall baseball second round, the team de­championship game will be feated Alumni 10-2. held today pitting St. Ed's Flanner comes into the game against Planner. with a a perfect 7-0 record. The 
The game is scheduled for 6 'Cocks defeated rival tower, 
p.m. at Babe Ruth Field which Grace, 15-1 in the first round is located at St. Joe's High and bested Morrissey 9-1 in the School. second round. 
St. Ed's comes into the game The original championship with a 5-2 record including the game was postponed due to two playoff victories. In the first rain. 


please recycle! 
WANTED 

HAVE YOU SEEN THIS MAN? 
Ifyou have, then inform your friends to beware ofhis vicious comedy! Report to Washington Hall on Friday, November 6th at 8 p.m. to find out for yourself just how dangerous his wit is. 
{Tickets on sale at the LaFortune Infonnation desk for $3) 

~ ---------------­
page 18 The Observer Wednesday, October 28,1992 
Schafer .not u.pset with
Oregon stuns men's cross country
-
~~~~~~ -~----~-~----~ ~--~~ -~---~·~--~---~--~­
~-~-­
By SEAN SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's cross country team was defeated Sunday, October 18 by the Uni­versity of Oregon. The Ducks beat the Irish by 21 points in the Jeff Drenth Invitational held in Eugene Oregon. The Irish were undefeated and ranked 3rd in the nation going into this meet, but after the meet Notre Dame dropped to No. 12. 
"The top 3 [Irish runners] ran very well," said Irish head coach Joe Piane. Mike McWilliams, John Coyle and Nate Ruder have been the top three respectively in every race this season. 
All American Mike McWilliams was the lead Irish runner with a time of 24:41.7 over the 8K course. Fellow All American and Irish team cap­tain John Coyle was the second runner for the Irish with a time of 24:57.5. And sophomore standout Nate Ruder was the number-three man for Notre Dame with a time of 25:04.2. 
"Four, five, six and seven didn't run well as a group at all," said Coyle. "They ran in­dividual races and they need to run as a team." 
On the other hand, Oregon was able to group early. The Ducks laid off the pace a little at the beginning and gradually sped up in through the middle 
MORGANTOWN, W.Va. (AP) ­Miami's rejuvenated offense doesn't impress West Virginia linebacker James Wright. 
"I say if our offense gets us 17 points, we'll win the game," Wright said. "The defense will hold them under 17." 
After struggling on offense earlier this season, top-ranked Miami has averaged 44 points in its last two games. But Wright is confident that the un­ranked Mountaineers can beat the Hurricanes at the Orange Bowl on Saturday. 
"I think it's like a national championship game for us," said Wright, a Miami native. "We go in there with nothing to lose. They're the ones with something to lose." 
r Miami will be West Virginia's 
I fourth consecutive nationally ranked opponent. The Moun­taineers have come up just 

1 mile east of campus 
GREEI<S & CLUBS 
I 
RAISE A COOL 
'1000 
IN JUST ONE WEEKI 
PLUS $1000 FORTilE 
MEMBER WHO CALlS! 
No obligation. No cost. You also get aFREE HEADPHONE RADIO just for calling 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 


early-season losses 

By KEVIN DOLAN 
Sports.. Writef 

Tha Notre Dame hockey team got off to a rough >start last week with losses in its first 
·.three games, hutcoach Ric Schafer is optimistic about th4;! upcoming season. 
"I'm not disappointed," Schafer said. "We lost 6-1 to Michigan, but thtiiy're just an awesome hockey team {currently #1 in the nation). 1 h(lpe we can get to that level someday." 
Despite that l(lss,.Schat'er.falt that the Irish played welL 
"We had nine freshmen in, but they played well. I'm O(lt disappointed at all. It's all part of the dues we have to pay, pa.rt Qf the learning experience," he said. 
The Irish dropped two to Kent State over the weekend, a 2-1 overtime loss on Friday and a 7~s decision on Saturday. Schafer was especially pleased with the defense in Friday's game. 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
"Our goalie, Greg Louder,
Oregon handed John Coyle and the rest of the Notre Dame men's cross country team their first loss of the season during tall break. 
played an excellent game and 
miles. All indications look toward "They ran a smarter race," the Irish improving over the 
said Coyle. "Their two through next few weeks. They ran well 
seven stayed pretty much in practice over fall break and 
grouped through the first half are looking forward to the 
of the race." meets on the horizon. 
Miami's rejuvenated offense does not impress West Virginia's James Wright 


short in each of those games, tying Boston College 24-24, losing to Syracuse 20-17 and falling to Penn State 40-26 when the Nittany Lions scored two touchdowns in the final minute. 
West Virginia center Mike Compton says the Mountaineers are going to take out their frustrations on Miami. 
"This is probably the most frustrating year for me," Compton said after the Penn State game. "It really makes you sick. We need a win, and we're going to get one in Mi­ami." 
That would be quite an ac­complishment, considering that the defense was really t9ugh. 1'{) orily givfi up. one gq:;.tl in regulation•... that's a tough loss." 
Kent Statejumped out.to a 4~1 lead on Saturday enroute to the victory, but Schafer was still pleased with the Jrish effort. 
uwe could've played better defense,> but it's still a long season. I see us winning some hockey games this year," he added. 
. The Irish will host Lake Su­perior State, last year's national champions, this Friday and· Saturday night at the JACC. Schafer wants to be more than competitive, saying that the Irish "want to pull off a major upset." 
Schafer feels that the Irish have plenty of work to do, hut he is happy with the team's ef· fort so far. 
"We could use some work on offense ( only 7 goals in 3 games), but I'm happy with the way we've played and I have a good feeling about the rest of the season." 

the Hurricanes have won 25 straight overall and 49 in a row at the Orange Bowl. 
West Virginia (3-2-2) needs to win three of its last four games to get the six ·victories required for bowl consideration. After Miami. the Mountaineers play East Carolina, Rutgers and Louisiana Tech. 
"We have four more games left and they're all tough," coach Don Nehlen said. "We'll just see what kind of character this team has. I would think with the schedule we play, 6-3­
2 would get us in a bowl." Receiver Jay Kearney says the 
Plzza DeUvered 
Mountaineers aren't intimi­dated by Miami. 


7b Your Room/ 

.--------------------------------------­





Today 


Wednesday, October 28, 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


.. 
BILL WATIERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I LOVE 
REC~SS! 
"Louis ... phonecaw." 

~ 
~ 9~-~-~~---~ ~----------~U--LL---~~~~~--~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Dutch river or so Actor from beer Burbank 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any
1 Whitewashed 
Call Now other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. 
32 A poet laureate 51 An Algonquian6 Devil's-grip, 
Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20. Our drivers are not 
of Byron's day 53 "Fiesque" 
ND 271~0300

e.g. 35 Plunder composer 
penalized for late deliveries. 
10 Musical symbol 36 Type of stitch 55 Castles-in-the­
© 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc.
SMC 289~0033

14 Dispatch boat air builders 
TRY OUR NEW DELUXE GARDEN SALAD. 

37 Fimbriate 15 AI Jolson's last 59 Solzhenitsyn's
38 Caesar's 
wife "The First-"
Danube 16SanJuan-63Vacillate
4DM!nyan 
64 Freed-Brown17 Popular flower m1mmum song:1933
41 Eurydice was one 66 Architectural
190ne of the 
Aleutians fillet
43-Meeuwtje, Minuit's ship 
20Whole 67 Male ant 
21 Form of light 
68--rocket
44 Relative of averse sextant 69Lament 
23 "If seven maids 47Peut--70 "Battle Hymn with seven (maybe, in .. ."composer
" 
Metz) 71 Endures, in 25Novice 
48 Ocean State Edinburgh 26 End of a familiar in st. palindrome 49 Poet like Guest 
DOWN 
1 Kent's Lois ­ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
2 Writer Bunin 3-Maidens, floaters in Oz 
-­
4Appraisal 24lndecent 46Area 56 White-crested 5 Porto's river 26 One of Job's 52 Badger's kin merganser &Rainy friends 
54 River in the eo Quote 7 Guitarist 27 Carthage, in the 
Yukon &1 Body of 

Clapton Punic Wars 
55 Lateen-rigged knowledge
8 Jewish month 26 "The Birth of vessel 
62 A grandson of 
9 Mother of Venus" artist 
56-avis Adam

Persephone 30 Glue neutralizer 
57 Custer's Major 65 Meadow, in 
10 Bergere, e.g. 31 Animal's burrow 
Meuse

~=+=-~~~-=-~...... 11 Coral, for one 33Long f:+==+::::+.:::-+=-t 12 Actress 34 German port II!I!IPI~+-BB:-;.fl!~ Sommer 39 Composer from 
Get answers to any three clues
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420·
~::-E-E-4 18 Meal for Moliere 42 Possibly a cub 
5656 (75¢ each minute)•

.:..:..&..;~~ 22Sore 45 Fast cat 


-:+.:+.::+=-! 13 Blemish Ind. 


a1 It's never too early to start thinking ::) about your costume for the biggest .....I Halloween celebration ever! ~­z~o:::>Z _jW October 31st at The Club <{(/) 9~23Hl must be 21  




Sports 
I 
I ­
r 
l 
I 
page 20 Wednesday, October 28,1992 ROLANDO 

Pendergast adapts quickly to new roles 
DE AGUIAR 
By JIM VOGL Assistant Sports Editor 

Cheap Shots 
Like a chameleon, Notre 1-----------~~---1 Dame senior soccer player
Finally! Students will be closer to the actiOn 
With little fanfare, the Notre Dame ticket office last week made what should have been an earth-shattering announcement. 
Quietly, almost silently, they moved the student section. 
Don't worry. The northwest corner of Notre Dame Stadium is still reserved for rosy-cheeked Domers clad in the Shirt, so the football team can still find an audience for their helmet-waving. 
But John MacLeod has a special place in his heart for students this year, and the Joyce ACC has a special place in its seats for them. After years of exile in the upper reaches of the basketball bowl, with seats closer to Alpha Centauri than to the hardwood, the students have moved directly behind the basket. 
Finally. 
The impersonal, modern ACC is a far cry from the cozy confines of the Notre Dame Fieldhouse, inhumanely destroyed twenty-some years ago because the University had built a big­ger, better and bolder building in which to nurture its basketball team. 
And Notre Dame's basketball team, despite a history of comeback wins in the ACC, was not playing in an environment conducive to emotional intensity. An incredibly useful, but cold building, those who worked in the ACC-the Notre Dame basketball team-undoubtedly suffered from the same emotional problems plaguing workers in hospitals and office buildings. Emotion is hard to come by amid polyester seats and steel girders. 
The ACC's sterility was heightened by the veritable absence of rowdy, loud students from the floor area. The stu­dents were far removed from the action, placed in the nosebleed section, paying over sixty dollars for season tickets to watch games played on a dis­tant court. 
The influence and noise brought to Cameron Indoor Stadium by Duke students is an integral part of the Blue Devils' home-court success. The blue and white painted bodies of those hated Duke student-fans give Bobby Hurley, Grant Hill and friends a boost toward a win before the team enters the building. If MacLeod's team can get any emotional boost from the new seating arrangement, then the ticket office's decision to relocate the student section will be validated. 
With that move, and the reduction of student ticket prices to $44 for the 11 home games, the Notre Dame basketball team will have a vocal, rowdy cast of supporters behind its first-half glass this season. So when opponents need to hit critical free throws late, hundreds of people will be there to scream and wave their arms. The ACC will once again be a winning environment. 
Now if we could only get the Fieldhouse back. 
._______________.:.said Holtz. "But I got the penalty because· I threw the hat." 
INSIDE SPORTS 
Holtz was referring to an incident in 

•oregon stuns men's cross country 
which he, frustrated by a no-call on a 

•Hock-ey 
drops openers · 

•Rockies 
hire Baylor···. 


see page 18 perceived hold by a BYU lineman, threw his baseball cap toward the Irish bench. 
_.. _After the hat flew, so did a yellow flag. 

seepage 1a "I didn't say anything, but the guy threw the flag," said Holtz. "A coach can't get 15-yard penalties, so when I got one I was going to get my money's 
see page 15 worth." 

Kevin Pendergast knows how to adapt quickly to new envi­
ronments. 
When football kicker Craig 
Hentrich injured his knee late last season, Pendergast and several other soccer team­mates answered Lou Holtz's call and tried out as placekickers. Pendergast's right foot stood out among several other candidates, and Holtz gave him the job. 
But here's the real kicker: ''I'd kicked a football before just goofing around, but never for any organized team," he admitted. 
Pendergast responded in key games against Penn State and Florida in the Orange Bowl, both after Hentrich was supposed to be ready. 
Pendergast assumed kickoff duties in Happy Valley with just two days notice. Unlike many of his new teammates, Pendergast performed admirably against the Nittany Lions, as PSU returned three kickoffs a total of 24 yards. 
He got pressed into duty again in the Orange Bowl as Hentrich re-injured his leg in the first half. Pendergast ac­counted for six points in Notre Dame's surprising 39-28 vic­tory, booting a 23-yard field 

Jerome Bettis is questionable for Saturday's game against Navy because of an injured ankle. 


Holtz is putting his professional wrestling career on hold 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Associate Sports Editor 
Lou Holtz put to rest rumors of his departure to a career in professional wrestling on Tuesday, explaining again the headlock he put on an official during Saturday's win over Brigham Young. 
Holtz recounted the play, which has elicited criticism in both print and broadcast media, and apologized for his actions. 
"The perception around the country was· that I put my arm around the referee and that's why I got the penalty," 


The Observer/Jake Peters 

Kevin Pendergast, a reserve kicker for the football team in addition to his soccer duties, is used to 
adapting to new roles. 
goal and three extra-point conversions. 
The Simsbury, Ct. native started out at Notre Dame in a role a bit more familiar to him, as a star of the soccer team. In his first two seasons, he started all 38 games, leading the squad in scoring both years (29 as a freshman, 18 as a sophomore). 
"Part of the way through my junior year, I was slumping a 
Holtz called the referee over and then demonstrated the hold he saw by placing the official in a headlock. Though the coaeh maintains that he did not touch the referee, the public perception was something different. 
"My wife's out of town, and I am all alone," said Holtz. "So I !)topped to pick up a pizza and when I was picking it up I signed an autograph, 'I hope we can wrestle sometime."' 
Despite his lighthearted mood at yesterday's press conference, Holtz is taking nothing for granted in preparing for this weekend's game with Navy. The Irish trounced the Midshipmen last season, but the coach has not forgotten the trouble Navy caused in that game. 
"Last year we won 38-0. But after 57 minutes, Notre Dame had a grand total of 86 yards rushing," said Holtz. "They completely shut us. down until Reggie Brooks broke a big one." 
Navy enjoyed several successes on that frigid afternoon, but the game's outcome was never in question. This year's Navy bit in scoring," he recalled. With the luxury of two high scoring freshman (Jean Joseph and Tim Oates), Irish coach Mike Berticelli decided to find Pendergast a new role. 
"I guess it was more of a leadership role than anything else," explained Pendergast, who started just seven of 19 games that year but gained maturity in the process. 
"That was tough for me at 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 


Men's soccer rides a > roller coaster during fall break 
Sy JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's' soccer team went on a roller coaster ride during fall 
H The Irish carried a three-game winning .Streak into a stretch that featured games ._ against Kentucky, Vanderbilt, Brigham 
Young and Loyola. · 
Against Kentucky, the Irish continued 

their winning ways, with a 2-0 victory 
over the Wildcats. 
Bill LB;nza got the Irish on the hoard 

less than six minutes into the game on an 
assist from goalkeeper Bert Bader. Keith 
Carlson scored next. converting a pass 
from freshman Shawn Bryden at the 
26:46 marl\. That was all the Irish would need, as the defense held the Wildcats to just seven shots on goal to register the shutout. 
"It (the Kentucky game) was one of the 

best games we've played all year," seni()r 
Kevin Pendergast said. "It wasn't a 
blowout, but it was a solid effort all· 
around." 
Three days later, the winning streak 

came to an abrupt halt against 
Vanderbilt. Sophomore Tim Oates scored 
the lone Irish goal seven minuws into the 
game, but it wasn't enough, asVailderbilt 
added two in the first baliand another ill 
the second half to drop Notre Dame 3-1 . 
"We came Jnto tM last half of the 

season fully expecting to win every. 
game," Pendergast explained. "The 
VanderbiU game was a big letd{)\Vn." 
They didn't stay down for long. Back at home Friday night against Brigham Young; the ldsh bombed the over~ matched Cougars. Pendergast, Mike Palmer, Bryden and Lanza each scorE)d for the}rish as they improved to 9"~);-tfor the yi'la.r~ · ·· · > > / •.•.... 
first. But when you're not satisfied with thP way you're playing, the most important thing to do is to be a positive leader for the younger guys." 
Pendergast began a new phase this season, as a starter on defense. "I like it a lot. I'm still adjusting, still learning." 
He's still learning in football, too, making practice about 
see KICKER/page 17 








