The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 58 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Sleep-out to highlight ND 'Homeless Week' 
By JASON WILLIAMS News Writer 
Notre Dame for the Homeless Week will host a sleep-out tonight in Stepan Center in an effort to bring the issues of homelessness and poverty to light for students. 
"The sleep-out is not intended to mock homelessness by any means," said Mike Griffin, Stu­dent Government chief of staff and co-chair of Notre Dame for the Homeless Week. "The main purpose is to give students an opportunity to talk to homeless people." 
According to Griffin, the highlight of the sleep-out will be the opportunity for students to 
Linebacker relocation gets setback 
By SARAH DORAN News Writer 
The Area Plan Commission voted 10-4 at a meeting Tues­day against recommending the City Council rezone a residen­tial property on which the Linebacker Lounge would relo­cate. 
The Linebacker is being forced out of its current build­ing by plans to widen Indiana 23. 
"The vote was probably heav­ily influenced by the many neighbors {of the proposed site) who came to the meeting and voiced their concern of the safety, parking, and traffic problems that the relocation would bring to their area," said Scott Kugler of the Area Plan Commission. 
"The vote basically indicated that it is okay for the 
see BACKER I page 4 

interact with South Bend Center for the Homeless residents. 
"We're going to split the homeless people into small groups with the students," he said. "That way both the home­less people and the students will be able to share stories with one another. They can ask us questions just like we can ask them questions." 

Along with the expected 10 
.residents of the center, Father Tom McDermott, director of special activities for Campus Ministry, and Lou Nanni, direc­tor of the Center for the Home­less, will give presentations on the lifestyles and attitudes of homeless people. 
"We're going to show some 

Shoppin' around 

very interesting documentary films on homelessness along with having presentations made by faculty, campus ministry and counselors form the South Bend Center for the Homeless," Griffin said. "We just want to get students together in a very informal setting with homeless people to. discuss issues of poverty and homelessness." 
Notre Dame for the Homeless Week is being held in conjunc­tion with National Hunger and Homeless Week. Chairpersons Griffin and Kellie Abbott have organized the week's events with the help of Campus Min­istry and the Center for Social Concerns. 
"We have been pleased with student participation in the planned activities up to this point," Griffin said. "We were especially pleased with the turnouts for the discussions in the dorms." Strong student re­sponse has given organizers good reason to expect large numbers for the sleep-out tonight. 
"We're expecting anywhere from 80 to 100 students," Grif­fin said. "All they have to do is show up at Stepan Center by 9 
p.m. with either a sleeping bag or a blanket." 
Students or faculty with questions about the sleep-out or other activities this week may contact student government at 239-7668. 
Ed Broderick, senior from Dillon Hall, shops at the Outhouse Enterprise Boutique. The boutique will be selling T-shirts, buttons, and bumper stickers with "peace and save the earth" messages in the LaFortune Student Center through Friday. 


New Church catechism contains few changes 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH News Writer 
The Roman Catholic Church released its first universal catechism out of Rome in over 400 years Monday. The document contained little change in Church teachings and doctrine. 
"We all would have been surprised had their been any major changes," said Lawrence Cunningham, theology department chair. "The catechism is a restating of tradition, doctrine and morals with Rome's support behind it." 
"The last place you would see anything revolutionary would be out of Rome," Cunningham continued. 
Cunningham clarified that while this is the first catechism to come out of Rome in 426 years, there have been count­less catechisms issued at the national and local levels throughout the world. 
This universal catechism reaffirmed the Church's bans on divorce, abortion, and any contraception that is not natu­ral. One change is that the segment condemning homo­sexuality now also urges Catholics to display compassion for homosexuals. 
Also, the catechism inter­prets the Seventh Com­mandment, "Thou shalt not steal," as a call for economic and social justice. The cate­chism does not enumerate any new sins nor eliminate any transgressions formerly considered sins. 
Ralph Mcinerny, philosophy department chair, said the new catechism is a very positive thing. 
"There was a lot of confusion about Church teachings and the direction the Church was taking," said Mcinerny. "Some people were believing in everything and calling it 'Catholic.' This reaffirms the Church's position." 
According to Cunningham, this catechism "is not directed toward the people in the pews," but is directed toward the bishops to guide their writings of future catechisms for their communities. 
"(The new catechism) is more of a resource book than an actual catechism that 
see CHURCH I page 4 


Bishops defeat document that would have buried question of women's ordination 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Roman Catholic bishops defeated a keenly cGntroversial document on women Wednesday after struggling over it for nine years. Women's ordination, far from laid to rest by Vatican edicts, was at the heart of their disagreement. 
It was the first time in history that the bishops had failed to reach a consensus on an in­tended pastoral letter bearing their collective authority. 
Requiring 190 votes for pas­sage -two-thirds of the eligi­ble bishops -the teaching document received 137 "yes" votes and 110 "no" votes after five hours of strenuous debate over two days. 
The repeatedly revised doc­ument, its fourth version the most restrictive of all, had been sharply assailed by many women's organizations and other Catholic groups. 
It would have precipitated "another tremendous crisis in the church," said Archbishop Rembert Weakland of Milwau­kee. "We would lose another generation of very wonderful women." 

Pope John Paul II 
The question of ordaining women emerged as the nub of the bishops' discussion, although Pope John Paul II has ruled the subject off limits. 
Asked if this meant "the genie is now out the bottle," Bishop Pierre DuMaine of San Jose, Calif., said "yes," adding at a news conference, "The debate will continue." 
Several others said the conflict over the issue demonstrates that it demands fuller, open discussion. Calling it the "driving" core of the debate here, Cardinal Joseph Bernardin of Chicago said: 
"You know as well as I that a simple fiat" decreeing silence "will not settle the issue." 
He won passage of a plan for more "study and dialogue" about the ban on female priests, not to contradict it but to explain it more persuasively. 
"What we need now is to en­gage our people, to truly listen, to explain, to challenge to show that our tradition really makes sense," he said. 
The rejected document firmly prohibited women's ordination. While affirming women's equal dignity, the document un­derlined sexual differences. It condemned discriminatory sexism but said women partly share blame for it. 
The Vatican had intervened repeatedly in shaping the con­tents, but Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro declined to comment on the vote, calling it a decision of the American bishops. 
Navarro called attention to a document issued by the pope in 1988 that, among other things, condemned discrimination and reaffirmed a ban on female priests. 

--~~---------­
·page 2 Thursday, November 19, 1992 
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Should we take the low road or the high one? 
There are two ways to get to the top. 
Politicos do it one way. Revolutionaries do it the other. 
We see too many politicos in our genera­

tion. You know who they Rolando de 
are. The young upwardly Aguiar 
mobile suburban white Associate Sports 
kids who see their ________ education as a means to an ignoble end: what they call financial security, and what should be called financial tyranny. 
The politicos have no imagination. They follow the same paths that brought their parents success. They mimic their successful forebears with their tastes in clothing, music, food and politics. These all-too-typical college students are busy climbing the ladder that their parents have built for them, where they will find easy footing toward a secure, albeit mundane future. 
Meanwhile, the revolutionaries are off in anothe.r philosophical world, creating new ladders and developing radical ways to reach their own goals. They struggle at the bottom. choosing to ignore the system of advancement built by the generations before them, instead wrestling with idealism. 
Once they have perfected their idealistic vision, they must scream to be heard, and throw temper tantrums to be noticed by the mainstream. They look like immature ado­lescents, but in reality they are the most sensitive and considerate individuals society has to offer. They have believed in themselves, and achieved without the help of others. 
I try my hardest to be a revolutionary. I want to change the world, to turn it upside-down. But I fear that I am already climbing that ladder built by my parents. They are paying for my education at Notre Dame, which produces swarms of businesspeople. I work for the most respected mainstream student publication at this school, writing little that could change anyone's life (unless football can change your life). 
Fortunately, I haven't yet registered for any accounting classes, joined the Knights o Columbus, or supported a conservative politician. But I am very afraid of where I'm headed, and of where our generation is going. 
I want to do it myself, but I also want the security of having help. I want to strive for something more than financial success, but I don't want to struggle to feed my children. 

However, I know that I cannot have it both ways. The time has come to make a decision: will I start climbing the corporate ladder. reaping the financial rewards offered by the mainstream? Or will I build my own life, out o materials that I earn by myself? 
If I do the former, I will undoubtedly end up one of the typical white suburbanites engaged in the mundane existence of the businessperson. 
By trying to be a revolutionary, I risk financial failure. 
But I also guarantee myself satisfaction. I will have built my own ladder. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
FORECAST 
Cloudy and cold today with a 40 percent chance of rain and highs in the low 50's. Cloudy and cold Fridaywith a 30 percent chance of 
rain. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  31  28  
~tlanta  64  35  
Bogota  64  50  
Cairo  77  63  
Chicago  43  32  
Cleveland  50  39  
Dallas  70  56  
Detroit  42  39  
Indianapolis  60  50  
Jerusalem  63  48  
London  46  39  
Los Angeles  72  58  
Madrid  64  45  
Minneapolis  35  28  
Moscow  32  28  
Nashville  67  43  
New York  53  37  
Paris  46  37  
Philadelphia  54  37  
Rome  68  46  
Seattle  52  46  
South Bend  48  40  
Tokyo  59  54  
Washington. D.C.  59  36  

.................. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL ARPc_eals court will not review VMI case 
OF INTEREST 
•"Africa 
in the World," the ninth in a video series, will be followed by a panel discussion on Alimazarvi's Series, "The African," featuring professors Peter Walshe, James Bellis, Abdelhami Ajbar, Rosetta Mvzigo, and Steven Kuada. The video begins at 7:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune Student Center. 

•Interested 
in organizing humanitarian aid for the Croatian and Bosnian refugees. or joining ND/SMC Croatian Club, please call Anthony at 273-2889 or Suzanne at 284-5006. 

•An 
informational meeting for SARG's Extern Pro­gram will be in Notre Dame Room in LaFortune Student Center at 7 p.m. Students interested in participating in the program in the Spring or Fall of 1993 should attend. 


review a three-judge panel's ruling that could force the state-supported Lexingt;.;.n school to admit women. The case now could go back to U.S. District Judge Jackson Kiser, as the three-judge panel directed, or VMI could appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court. VMI has argued that admitting women would undermine the 1 ,300-student school's mission of producing citizen-soldiers. 
CAMPUS 

Game show to hold auditions 
•NOTRE 
DAME, lnd.-"You Bet Your Life," the game show hosted by comedian Bill Cosby, will be in South Bend to audition potential contestants Saturday, Nov. 21 at the Ramada Inn at 52890 U.S. Route 33 North, according to a show spokeswoman. Contestant coordinators are seeking students. faculty or other individuals with a "unique occupation, hobby or unusual life experience." Contestants must be at least 18 years of age. Interested individuals should contact the show at 1-800-942-9295 between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. to schedule an interview. 

•The 
Iceberg Debate executive committee is forming. Any student interested in working on Student Government's Iceberg Debate Committee or finding out more about the debates, please contact Amy (283-4899) or leave a note in the Student Government office this week. 

•Ballroom 
Dance Club members: Class is can­celled today. 

•The 
annual Thanksgiving interfaith prayer service, "We Gather in Thanksgiving" will be at 7:30 p.m. in The Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 

•The 
American Cancer Society Club of Notre Dame will meet in room 184 Nieuwland Science Hall at 7 p.m. to make the Christmas tree ornaments. 



Today's Staff 
News  Viewpoint  
Sandy Weigand  Cheryl Moser  
Jennifer Habrych  
Systems  Sports  
Chris Caracciolo  Jonathan Jensen  
Matt Carbone  
Production  Graphics  
Cheryl Moser  Anne Marie Conrado  
Kathy Fong  Accent  
Laurie Sessa  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING November 18 
VOLUME IN SHARES  NYSEINDEX  
218,667,251  +1.78 to 232.87  
S&P COMPOSITE  
+4.23 to 496.04  
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS  
UNCHANGED  +14.05 to 3,207.37  
564  
GOLD  
+ $0.80 to $335.20  
SILVER  
+ $0.05 to $3.763  

• 
In 1863: President Lincoln delivered his Gettysburg Address as he dedicated a national cemetery at the site of the Civil War battlefield in Pennsylvania. 

•In 
1919: The U.S. Senate rejected the Treaty of Versailles by a vote of 55 in favor to 39 against, short of the two-thirds majority needed for approval. 

• 
In 1959: Ford Motor Company announced it was halting production of the "Edsel," a medium-priced car that had proven to be a poor seller. 

• 
In 1990: Pop duo Milli Vanilli were stripped of their 


Grammy Award because other singers had lent their voices to the "Girl You Know It's True" album. 
--~ -~---~----­
---------~-----------------­
Thursday, November 19, 1992 The Observer page 3 
Malcolm's widow: Movie portrays her as aggressive 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. (AP)­Betty Shabazz, the widow of Malcolm X, said their marriage and now the film about his life have thrust her into a role she never sought. 
"I have been propelled on a bridge, on a trail, on a platform by this man called Malcolm," Shabazz told an audience at Harvard on Tuesday. 
While she praised the Spike Lee film "Malcolm X," Shabazz said the portrayal of her own role makes her seem more assertive than she was. 
Angela Bassett, who portrays her in the film, "came into that movement and cast her hooks and came up with the big fish," Shabazz said. "And I was always holding back. I would never have developed objectives to wheel the fish in." 
But she said she was proud of her husband's legacy. 
"Some of you who perhaps don't agree with him today, 10 or 20 years from now when your children are trying to secure their human rights or are denied options and opportunities, you will remember Malcolm." 

Come, Let Us £lather 
'Ln 'Jhan~sgLvi.nfJ 
Annual Thanksgiving Interfaith Prayer Service 

7:30 PJ"t the BasiLica of the Sacred Heart 
1 

on the Campus of the Uni.versi.ty of Notre Dame 
~~ 
tNv\f'JS 
t.,7W,JISTPY 

Although many students looking for jobs working for peace and justice assume they must work for free, Professor of government George Lopez said there is a market for such jobs. 
Lopez, acting Regan director of the Kroc Institute for Inter­national Peace Studies, said traditional, socio-political and service opportunities exist, and suggested that students try to incorporate a justice or peace issue into a traditional job, provided that it is possible. 
"Persistence pays off" for students looking for such a job, said Lopez. Following up your resume with phone calls and visits is part of ~·getting an edge." He said it may surprise some students to learn that a resume should be longer than the one-page standard. 
Experience is essential, ac­cording to Lopez. Seniors with weak resumes should consider taking the time after graduation to get that experience. He encouraged students to "create possibilities through flexibility." 
Lopez added that it is impor-
The Observer/Michelle Dire George Lopez, acting director of the Kroc Institute for International Studies, discusses employment opportunities in the field of peace and justice in a lecture held yesterday in the Hesburgh Center for Interna­tional Studies. 
tant to use many resources to Institute contains many guides fmd out what jobs are available. to jobs and internships in the The resource room of the Kroc areas of peace and justice. 
It is time for U.N. to be 'peace maker' 
By NANCY DUNN 
News Writer 
After more than 45 years, it is time for the United Nations to switch from being a peace keeper to a peace maker, ac­cording to Paul Tierney, who traveled to four sites to oversee peace-keeping operations as a delegate to a United Nations (UN) association. 
Due to the end of the Cold War, the UN now enjoys more freedom in its peace-keeping operations, he said. Establish­ing 13 new operations in the past three years, the UN has matched the number it set up between 1945 and 1989. 






HAPPY THANKSGIVING! 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
1 &2 BEDROOM FURNISHED APARTMENTS RENTING NOW FOR AUGUST 1993 
FOR INFORMATION CALL 

272 -1441 


While this new freedom is a positive sign, Tierney said there need to be reforms in the organization. As a delegate to the United Nations Association of the U.S., he evaluated the effectiveness of the UN peace­keeping operations. 
Tierney credited the efforts of the troops in Cambodia, El Sal­vador, Cyprus and Golan Heights, recognizing their courage and dedication. Not only do the troops remove mines, patrol buffer zones, and disarm militias, but they are slowly being used in non-mili­tary settings to build roads or instruct local citizens in water purification techniques, he said. 
While he praised the troops, Tierney said civilian leadership is seriously lacking within the organization. 
Tierney suggested the creation of new standards for the selection and training of 
personnel. He suggested the 
establishing a standing force 
with common training to reduce 
confusion within the forces. 
To play this new role, the UN needs more money, Tierney said. He gave three suggestions to increase revenue. First, establish a tax on the sale of weapons. Second, payments to the UN should be seen as part of the Defense budget, instead of being part of the State De­partment budget, he said. Third, interest should be charged on late payments. 
This year, the United States is responsible for about 30 
,percent of the UN's budget. Tierney recognized that this number should be reduced, but noted that this averages out to only four dollars a person, while in countries such as Norway the payment averages out to about 13 dollars a person. 
~~ Es,o~ 
~ -..,1/_ 

/ Spanish Mass ~ 
domingo, 22 de Noviembre de 1992 
10:30 a.m. Breen-Phillips Chapel 
Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 
Celebrante Padre Robert Pelton, c.s.c. 

(Nv\PUS 
MINIW 

page 4 The Observer Thursday, November 19, 1992 


Clinton· calls his one-on-one session with Bush 'terrific' 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent-elect Clinton swept tri­umphantly into the capital Wednesday and held a "terrific meeting" with President Bush, soliciting advice on more than a dozen potential global problems the Democrat could inherit. 
Nine weeks before his inau­guration, Clinton also made a symbolic visit to a crime­plagued black business district. ''I'll do my best not to get out of touch," he promised well­wishers. Thousands of people strained against police lines for a glimpse. 
"I hope you'll never be dis­appointed," he told one sup­porter. 
Clinton said he and Bush dis­cussed such global tinderboxes as Russia, Bosnia and Somalia. "He was very candid," the 

Malcolm 
continued from page 1 
"Gone With the Wind" while in school. 
Several New York City schools, including Lee's alma mater, Junior High School 113 in 

Brooklyn, sent groups of students to the movie on its opening day. Non-student crowds were heavy in Manhattan, with several theaters reporting first-night sellouts. 
The movie follows Malcolm X from his days as a street hustler through his association with the Nation of Islam and his 1965 murder in Harlem's Audubon Ballroom. 
Newspaper critics were full of praise, and the reviews from the mostly black crowd were unfailingly upbeat for the 3 hour, 21 minute epic starring Denzel Washington. 


Church 
continued from page 1 
people will use and study." Mcinerny said he is very happy with the new catechism. 


Backer 
continued from page 1 
Linebacker to relocate but not 
to the proposed location," said 
Kugler. "But the Linebacker will 
still try to get this through." 
Elwanda Neidlinger, owner of the Linebacker, called the vote "biased and very unfair be­cause most people who were at the meeting have never come in to see what kind of place it is. They didn't want to listen to anything I had to say." 
"Some of the neighbors said the bar was a hash house and claimed they knew what went on in the parking lots, whatever that means," she said. 
"In fact, during the 30 years the bar has been here, which include my 13 years, we have never had anyone mugged, never had an underage drink­ing bust, and never had a car accident coming or leaving this place. We also have a great deal of security." 
Neidlinger plans to keep try­ing for the rezoning and is not interested in moving to another area of South Bend, 
. CRUISE JOBS <'. 
Students Needed! Earn$2.000+I month workingforcruise&hlpeor tour companies. Holiday, Summer, and Full­Time employment available. For your '92/VJ employment program call: 
Crvlu Employment Snvlcn 
(206) 634-0468 Ext. c 5584 



That Unrecognized Gay and Lesbian Organization in Notre Dame, IN 
P.O. Box 194 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
288-3878 

president-elect said. "He gave me a lot of insights. The Amer­ican people should be pleased." 
"It was a terrific meeting," Clinton said. The White House characterized the talks as "warm and informative." The meeting ran 45 minutes over schedule. 
Bush was waiting in the White House driveway to extend a handshake as Clinton stepped from his armored black limousine -on time, notable for the often-tardy Arkansas governor. 
The White House visit was the first stop on a two-day whirlwind of high-powered meetings and social engage­ments with the lions of the Washington establishment. Clinton's visit was intended to pave the way for a smooth transition and signal the new president's readiness to deal with Washington insiders. 
Demonstrating his willingness to be a good neighbor to the community, Clinton went directly from the White House to Northwest Washington for a walking tour of one of the city's black business districts. 
Clinton said he was trying to demonstrate his recognition that Washington is "a city ­not just government buildings" -made up of "people who don't want a handout but a handup." 
Clinton ducked into the Hamilton Seafood Grocery, the Hamilton Laundromat and other stores near the Georgia Avenue intersection. 

"The new catechism won't by itself change anyone, but it may change what one assents to in order to live a Christian life if there has been confusion about that," said Mcinerny. 
Since only a French version has been produced, Cunning­ham said it is difficult to make 
to the present location of Brid­get's, which is for sale. "Bridget's is a parking night­mare and is in a higher crime area," she said. 
''I'm very happy with the vote," said Patricia Davis, whose home resides two doors down from the proposed relo­cation site and has been avidly against the proposal from the start. 
much comment on the cate­chism. Only portions of the document have been translated and much of what is known about the catechism is what has been reported in newspapers. 
An English translation of the new catechism is not expected until January. 
"I feel that our presence at the meeting really did sway them. If the bar were to move, our property values would go down and our neighborhood would be dangerously unsafe for the children and elderly who live here," she said. 
The City Council will make the final decision on the rezon­ing proposal and will hold a public hearing on Dec. 7. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Business Copy Editor 
Please submit a personal statement and resume to David Kinney . Contact David at 239-5303 for more information. 
We love you, Kamala! 
Arun,Ashok &Dina Mom&Dad 


~----------~--------------~------------~-----~ ---~--~ 
Thursday, November 19, 1992 The Observer page 5 

Former prime minister of Pakistan is arrested 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan (AP)­The government arrested former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto and her top advisers at a huge political rally Wednes­day after they defied a ban on protest and called for the overthrow of the government. 
Bhutto had threatened that 100,000 marchers would storm Parliament. But the march, scheduled to begin 10 miles from the capital in Rawalpindi, was disrupted before it began. 
Police barricaded the route, fired tear gas into the crowd and beat protesters. In the cap­ital, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif imposed emergency measures and troops patrolled in machine-gun mounted trucks. Thousands were de­tained around the country. 
"My arrest won't make any difference. The struggle will continue," Bhutto said in a brief 
She Could Have Been AnythingShe Wanted. Instead She Became Everything.She BecameANun. 
SISTERS Of ST. BENEDICT
•

Find out what bting a nun rtaUy mtam. Call Simr Rou Mary Rt!Xing at 812-367-1411 
Mock GMAT Exam 
Sponsored by the Management Club Monday, November 23 
6:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. At the C.S.C. 
FREE! 

Results will be distributed after Thanksgiving If interested, RSVP Frank x2059 
a Christmas Evening 
Tuesday, December 1 Washington Hall 8: 10 
pm Students $7 Non-Students $10 
,%~ 
Tickets available at the LaFortune Information Desk, 239-8128 Sponsored by: SUB, VIVA, & The Student Activities Office. 
speech to about 40,000 supporters at a Rawalpindi park. Then she and party lead­ers were surrounded by 200 police and taken away. 
Bhutto agreed to board the plane for Karachi after the gov­ernment promised to release all opposition party supporters who were members of Parlia­ment. 
Bhutto, an articulate politician with a well-tested ability to attract crowds, says that Sharif's Islamic government is corrupt and repressive and rose to power through rigged elections. She wants President Ghulam Ishaq Khan to establish an interim government that would oversee new elections. 
But her demands are unlikely to be met. Sharif's government has a solid majority in Parliament. 

Sen. Kerry urges reward for Vietnam 
HANOI, Vietnam (AP) -Sen. John Kerry said Wednesday that President Bush should re­ward Vietnam within a month for its increased cooperation in accounting for American MIAs. 
Kerry, D-Mass. and two other members of his Senate committee on Americans miss­ing in action during the Viet­nam War were shown Viet­nam's military headquarters, military documents, photos of dead and captured U.S. ser­vicemen and other MIA arti­facts during a visit this week. 
Kerry said a letter Bush wrote to Vietnamese President Le Due Anh pledges that cooperation from Vietnam on the POW/MIA issue will be met with reciprocal actions by the United States. 
Kerry said members of his committee visiting Hanoi are strongly inclined to recommend that Bush reward Vietnam. The committee is to complete a final report on Dec. 19. 
"It is my personal judgment that the president should not wait for our final report," Kerry said. 
But the visiting senators said they doubted full normalization of relations was imminent. 
Parliament again says 'no' to Czechoslovakian division 
PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia (AP) -Parliament on Wednesday rejected a bill calling for the breakup of Czechoslovakia by year's end without a referen­dum, heightening the country's constitutional crisis. 
The bill fell three votes short of the necessary majority in the Slovak part of the lower cham­ber, or House of Nations. It had passed the Czech part of the lower chamber, as well as the House of the People, the upper chamber of the 300-seat bi­cameral legislature. 
Law requires each of the three sections to pass the bill by a three-fifths majority. Only the federal parliament has author­ity to dissolve the 7 4-year-old Slovak state. 
A similar bill was defeated on Oct. 1. Deputies voted to schedule another vote next Tuesday. 
Czech Premier Vaclav Klaus and his Slovak counterpart Vladimir Meciar, who emerged victorious from June elections, agreed last spring to split the country of 15 million people after failing to resolve differ­ences over post-Communist reforms. 
The leaders of the western Czech lands, which are wealth­ier and have twice the popula­tion of Slovakia, wish to move more swiftly to a free-market economy than do their Slovak colleagues. 
Cabinets in both republics have negotiated treaties divid­ing up federal assets and gov­erning future economic rela­tions between the two states in a free-trade zone. 
~e\ax With Us 
shipshewana at th 
.......~ (?
otltr 
140 Farver Street Shipshewana, IN 46565 

Just 45 minutes from campus. Relax in Indiana Amish Country. Your stay includes breakfast with Aunt Lena and a clean comfortable room. Call Now 1-800-435-0888 
__________,_____________________________ 
-------~-------·----~ ----­
page 6 The Observer Thursday, November 19, 1992 
Scientists: Disaster is imminent 

WASHINGTON (AP) -In a few decades it will be too late to reverse trends to environmen­tal disaster that would bring vast misery to humanity, said an appeal made public Wednesday by more than 1,500 scientists from around the world. 
"The greatest peril is to be­come trapped in spirals of envi­ronmental decline, poverty and unrest leading to social, eco­nomic and environmental col­lapse," they said in a four-page "Warning to Humanity." 
The statement was coordi­nated by Henry Kendall, an American who won the Nobel prize for physics in 1990. He now heads the Union of Con­cerned Scientists, a private ad­vocacy group on environmental issues. 

"No more than one or a few decades remain before the chance to avert the threats we now confront will be lost and the prospects for humanity immeasurably diminished," the scientists said. 
Kendall told reporters that political effects are already visi­ble in the large movements of people caused in part by degradation of the environ­ment. He cited the flow of refugees from eastern Europe and the Soviet Union, emigra­tion from North Africa to France, Spain and Italy and the Haitians who risk their lives in small boats to escape their im­poverished homeland. 
James Tobin, winner of the 1981 Nobel prize for eco­nomics, said market forces alone could not reverse the trend. 
"If I get in my car and drive ... from New Haven to New York, and pour the pollutants that come from internal combustion engines into the air, nothing in the price of gasoline or the price of a car deters me from doing that or assesses on me the cost that I am imposing on other people, other drivers or the world ...,"he said. 

Detroit beating victim had drugs in system 
DETROIT (AP) -A man beaten to death, allegedly by police swinging flashlights, had alcohol and traces of cocaine in his system when he was killed, it was reported today. 
Malice Green had traces of cocaine in his blood when he was killed, according to an offi­wouldn't give a damn if he had a gallon of liquor in his system, there's no excuse." 

Dr. Phil Predmore, a toxicol­ogist for the Oakland County medical examiner's office, said today that a urine alcohol test -unlike a blood alcohol test ­does not indicate whether a person drank enough to be im­paired. A person with alcohol in his urine may have no alcohol in his blood, Predmore said. 
Green, 35, died of head in­juries after being bludgeoned Nov. 5 on a street near a sus­pected crack house. 

cial who reviewed autopsy re-------------------------,
ports, the Detroit Free Press and The Detroit News said. The newspapers did not name the official.
The final touches 
The Free Press also said 

Dave Krummen, a sophomore from Flanner Hall, rehearses a scene 
Green had an 0.03 percent al­

from "A Place Called Candid" one last time before the premier of the 
cohol level in a urine sample. 

Sophomore One Act Plays tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune 
"It's still no excuse," said
Ballroom. 
Green's sister, Sherry. "I 

Man convicted for exposing woman to AIDS 
HOUMA, La. (AP) -A man was convicted Wednesday of violating a state law that makes it a crime to intentionally ex­pose anyone to the AIDS virus. 
Salvadore Gambarella, 28, was accused of exposing his former girlfriend and their child by having sex with her without telling her he was infected. 
Gambarella testified that he told Darla Trosclair that he car­ried the HIV virus; Trosclair said he never told her. 
Trosclair has tested positive for the HIV virus. Their child has not. 
Neither Gambarella or 
Trosclair commented after the jury's verdict in state district court. The trial dealt with one charge involving Trosclair; a second trial is planned for a second charge involving the child. 
Each count carries a maxi­mum 10-year sentence. 
Show yourfamily you miss them on Thanksgiving! 


Mary B. Green .
Come 1n and Browse Open daily 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Sundays 9:00a.m. to 12:00 Noon Serving Notre Dame and St. Mary's Serving South Bend, Mishawaka & Granger for over 60 years 
7 Day Deli'.r;~ry Roses Flowers Balloons Plants Gift & Fruit Baskets Clocktower Square ( 219) 2 7 7 "' 1291O'to,_e't ~ 51400 31 North b.,"-~ South Bend, IN 46637 ~ 0.~~ Mention This Ad and Receive 10% off ~ Not good for Valentine's Day  

THE•POINTE AT SAINT JOSEPH Start the holidays offwith a cozy place to stay. The Pointe at SaintJoseph Apartments are nestled on the SaintJoseph River bank and convienently located in downtown South Bend. •Close to ND Campus •Selected 1 or 2 bedroom apartments on special for a big Holiday Savings Your Luxury Apartment is waiting for you  

Those who brought you The Freshman Four now present: 
The Sophomore One -Act Plays 
TONIGHT! 
7:30p.m., LaFortune Ballroom Admission is S 1 
Sponsored by the Sophomore Class Council 
Thursday, November 19, 1992 The Observer page 7 
Smoking liability trial begins 
BELLEVILLE, Ill. (AP) -The makers from damage lawsuits. that's all the older he's going to nation's second largest tobacco He said he would prove there get," Cook told the St. Clair company engaged in a conspir­was a conspiracy to keep County Circuit jury. Cook said acy out of greed to hide the smokers smoking and to recruit doctors did not expect Kueper truth about the dangers of children to smoke. to live until next spring. smoking, an attorney for a "It was a conspiracy based on lung-cancer patient told a jury human greed," Cook said. The retired Army master Wednesday. Charles Kueper said in his sergeant from Cahokia, near St. 
"We say the defendants sold a lawsuit that R.J. Reynolds To­Louis, is suing for compen­product to the plaintiff and it bacco Co. and the Tobacco In­satory damages of $3 million was defective and unreasonably stitute, a trade association, con­and unspecified punitive dam­dangerous when they sold it," spired to persuade him and ages. Kueper, who was not in Bruce Cook said in opening the millions of others to ignore evi­court, says he got cancer from first trial since the U.S. dence that smoking is danger­smoking 1 1/2 packs of ci­Supreme Court ruled warning ous. garettes a day for nearly 30 labels don't shield cigarette "Charlie's 51 years old and years. 
EPA eases pesticide testing requirements 
(AP) --The Environmental more potential hazards to be ington, D.C. Protection Agency (EPA) has discovered. The Oct. 29 "Given that this is a relatively eased guidelines for pesticide memorandum was obtained by dramatic change, it would be safety testing by dispensing environmentalists and given to my view that this should have most field tests on birds and the AP. been brought to a larger audi­fish, according to an internal ence," said Jay Feldman, exec­memorandum obtained by The Environmentalists criticized utive director of the National Associated Press. the EPA for changing its guide­Coalition Against the Misuse of 
Environmentalists criticized lines without seeking public Pesticides. the move as a concession to the comment. pesticide industry that could He said it was inappropriate adversely affect human health. "This is basically a post-elec­for the lame-duck Bush admin­
tion, pre-Christmas gift for the istration to make any changes 
The EPA said the move would pesticide industry," said Marc in environmental policy, be­speed testing, allowing more Smolonsky of the Center for cause many EPA officials may pesticides to be evaluated and Resource Economics in Wash-be "poised to move to industry." 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 

WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? COMMUNITIES N.D. THE CHALLENGE OF ADULT CHRISTIANITY 
Frequently couples will come into the Campus Ministry Office hoping for a compatibility test, to see if they are truly meant for each other. Others come Campus Ministry is organizing a project to invite undergraduate students at 
looking for an article on relationships that they might read or advice on what Notre Dame to join together in small groups of men and women, and over the 
they should do now that they are interviewing for jobs that might separate course of time to share and work and pray together in such a way as to help
them in the future. 
one another to grow into a deeper Christian faith and sense of personal maturity.
They feel that their relationship is special, but they just aren't sure of the next step. Should they look for jobs in the same city or should they test the Campus Ministry will offer a meeting format and suggested topics for the earlyrelationship with some distance? Should they get engaged now or should they discussions of each group, and will provide ongoing support for the group'swork for a year or two first and establish some career goals? 
shared life as it matures over time in trust and focus. 
Campus Ministry has offered programs for engaged couples for many years, but The original commitment is for a series of six meetings during the Springa program for the engaged is not appropriate for a couple still exploring their semester of 1993, with each group to decide after that whether to continue itsrelationship -the decision is not yet made; and the decision might eventually life in the coming year. 
be to not continue the relationship. 
Sign-ups for the program, offered to firs~ year, sophomore, and junior class There are many issues and questions facing couples in significant relationships: students, will be held from November 30th until December 17th. An opening day "rally" for all potential community members will be held in LaFortune 
-how can we determine if we're really ready for marriage? Ballroom on Saturday, January 16, 1993. 
-should we try to find jobs, or pick graduate schools, that are in the same 
city? A further description of our hopes for this program will be presented in the
-how will a long distance relationship affect us? next "considerations ... " column.
-how can you express your true feelings without pressuring for 
commitment? 

-how will the demands of career/graduate school affect our relationship? Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
-how might differences in our families of origin affect our relationship? 
-how can we communicate better? 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS What's the Future of this Relationship?, a program which Campus Ministry 
AT SACRED HEART BASILICA offers, includes one presentation on the stages of relationships and another on 
Sat. November 21 5:00 p.~. Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C.
decision-making. There is also a marriage expectations quiz, but no 
Sun.November 22 10:00 a.m. Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C.
compatibility test! There is time for responding to questions individually, and time for discussing answers with one's partner. A group discussion period and a folder of articles for additional information and reflection are also offered. 
If you are in a significant relationship and are asking the questions mentioned above, perhaps you would like to attend this semester's program. 
"What's the Future of this Relationship?" will take place on Thursday, December 3, 6:30-10:30·p.m. Pre-registration is required. Registration papers can be obtained in both Campus Ministry Offices (Library Concourse and Badin Hall). Registration deadline is November 30. There is no cost for the program. If you have any questions, please call Chris Etzel or Patty Ballard-Raccuglia, 239-5242. 
Chris Etzel Marriage Preparation and Enrichment Program 
11:45 a.m. Rev. William Beauchamp, C.S.C. 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1sT READING  2 SamuelS, 1--3  
2ND READING  Colossians 1, 12--20  
GosPEL  Luke 23, 5--43  


Thursday, November 19, 1992 
The Observer 

page 8 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor ..............•....... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Oesign Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Olrector .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Today, think about giving 'cold turkey' a try 
Dear Editor: 
As many of you entered the dining hall today, you may have noted-some to your great dismay that "cold turkey' is for lunch. Cold turkey? Is there a new labeling system in the works? I mean, isn't the turkey always cold? What will be next? "Cold" peas? "Cold" meatless baked ziti? 
Not to fear, trusted reader, the dining hall is not experimenting with a new labeling system but mer.ely allying with the Notre Dame chapter of the American Cancer Society to make a point: ;roday-Thurday, Nov. 19,1992 is the American Cancer Society's Great American Smokeout-a day in which all smokers are invited-yes, even challenged-to try to give up smoking for twenty-four hours. 
What's that? You've never heard of the Great American Smokeout? Where have you been? South Bend? 
The Great American Smoke­out is an event which is held on the third Thursday in Novem­ber-yes, a date occurring more often, and more eagerly anticipated than the first Tues­day in November of every fourth year (election day, for those of you still in "South Bend"). 
The Great American Smoke­out-as it is known today-was originally founded in 1977, but its roots reach as far back as 1971-to the birth of the senior class, and to a day when Arthur 
P. Mullaney-a resident of Randolph, Massachusetts-ran a successful campaign to fund a scholarship fund for Randolph High School students. 
Mullaney raised the scholar­ship money by challenging the smokers of the town to donate the money which they would have spent on cigarretes-for that one day-to the fund. 
From these humble begin­nings, the Great American 
Smokeout has spread its roots across America, challenging all people to quit smoking for a day. 
One day? Is that it? 
Yes, smokers, the American Cancer Society challenges you to give up smoking-to go cold turkey-for one day. Today. 
And, for those "purist" non­smokers, do not think that you go unchallenged. We invite you to encourage a friend, an ac­quaintance, and yes-as you do attend a Christian school-even an adversary to beat his or her addiction. 
So, you're wondering why the challenge is only for one day? 
Well, aside from the fact that-believe it or not-the dining hall could run out of cold turkey, the American Cancer Society believes that if smokers quit for one day, they may quit for a lifetime. 
I recognize that this is an ed­ucated reading audience, and that not all smokers want to 


YOUKNOHJ, SAM, Y()(J'R& VCieY /lJCKY 708t3<3Rt.W­!N6UPCWA BeACH 5UCH 
A57HI5. \ 

HeR& YtX' td!U HAV& 7H& CHANC/3 70 CHOOSe A MOST tf/HYIAJA/7?
£XC£UENTt/R?57Yt£-THAT 
ter'5GO 
OF 7H£ 51/ff&R.. 17/S H~ 
NO«/I 
THAT 7RLI& f){)l?l3S ANO aJIJ£S5t3.S RRST \ t.MRN70CO 
RJI<IT. 

quit. 
Therefore, I will not print the plethora of effects that smoking has on everybody's life. I will tell you, though, that the goal of the 1992 Great American Smokeout is to help 25% of smokers give up cigarettes for 24 hours. 
So, now that we've introduced you to the Cancer Society's challenge, the ball is in your hands. 
Kick back, turn on the radio, and let Doing the Butt take on new meaning for you as you squash your butts out-for 24 hours. An intended joke? Close, but no cigar! 
If you didn't know that today is National Smokeout Day, then let your 24 hours begin now. And, by the way, enjoy your cold turkey sandwich. 
The NO Chapter of the American Cancer Society 
Nov. 16, 1992 
Dear Readers: 
The Observer would like to thank all those who have written letters of support concerning re­cent events on the View­point pages and our sub­sequent Editorial Board announcement. 
In order to focus on more timely issues, we're holding your responses. 
Our final decisions re­garding the matter (published Nov. 12, 1992), reaffirmed our commit­ment to free speech in a context that will not mis­represent The Observer. 
Thanks to all the stu­dents, faculty. alumni and other concerned readers who supported our actions. 
Viewpoint 
POBox Q ND, IN 46556 

Serious injuries after victory over Penn State are forgotten 
Dear Editor: they've been trampled in a 
mass surge to invade the pitch. 

I have been a Notre Dame I know at least two people sports nut: renting a car in were seriously injured after our South Bend at 10 a.m. to drive thrilling comeback against Joe to Purdue and buy tickets on Paterno and his team; one in an the dead run to watch the Irish intensive care unit for the bet­revenge the awful loss of 1950; ter part of two days, the other driving to watch our team still, so far as I know, dazed. attempt to climb Don Schlundt But I haven't read, seen or over Indiana to get past the first heard anything about that game of the NCAAs in Iowa City anywhere in the local media; in 1954, getting back to St. nor do I know of a locally effec­Louis just in time for the tive policy intended to insure routine Saturday morning quiz that such potentially murderous in human anatomy. behavior does not recur. 
I have also noticed British Ed Manier soccer hooliganism; people Philosophy Professor killed in their dozens--because Nov. 18, 1992 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Freedom rings where opinions clash.' 
Adlai Stevenson 
Ring them bells, submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

Viewpoint
Thursday, November 19, 1992 page 9 
ND for the Homeless f) 
'New homeless' are different from 'old' 
Editor's note: The following article comes from Out of Shelter, a book about the homeless by Peter Rossi. 
It is important to summarize what has been learned about homelessness from the social research of the past several years before examining what that knowledge implies about possible solutions. 
The following points deserve recapitulation: 
-The old homeless were concentrated in a few segre­gated districts in the large ci­ties. The new homeless tend to be dispersed more widely over the urban landscape, making extreme poverty and home­lessness far more visible. 
The new homeless are strikingly worse off than the old homeless. However inadequate the old cubicle hotels may have been, they still provided a modicum of shelter. A majority of the new homeless are com­pletely without shelter, and the remainder are provided shelter in unsatisfactory dormitory ac­commodations. 
Urban housing markets have been stripped of inexpensive housing, especially for unattached persons and for re­cently formed poor households. While much has been done to provide refurbished downtown housing for young urban pro­fessionals, little or nothing is provided for the young urban poor. Furthermore, however poor the old homeless may have been. their income levels were several magnitudes above those of the new homeless (in constant dollars). 
-The old homeless were al­most all unattached men; many were old men at the end of their working lives. The prospects for rehabilitation, for many, were slight. In contrast, the new homeless include a large contingent of women, many with their children. 
Also, the new homeless are composed largely of younger persons who would ordinarily be employed full time. The prospects of reestablishing tra­
. ditional life-course trajectories appear to be better for some of the new homeless than they would have been for the old. -The old homeless had a niche within the social ecology of the labor market, furnishing labor for seasonal activities or for short-term, low-skilled jobs. The market for such jobs has shrunk considerably with the 
advent of new technologies. The new homeless-unskilled and often disabled-have little or no function to play in today's urban labor market. 
-The old homeless were primarily whites. In contrast, the new homeless are drawn heavily from minority groups. In cities with high proportions of blacks, the homeless are overwhelmingly black. In other cities with large Hispanic or American Indian minorities, these groups constitute major portions of the homeless. 
The characteristics of the new homeless elicit more sympathy, perhaps, than the "old men drunk and sober" of the Skid Rows of the past. It is more arresting and disturbing to see homeless persons dotted all over the downtown urban landscape than to have them concentrated in readily avoid­able areas of the city, and even more disturbing when some of the ragged and dirty are women and men in what are considered their prime years. 
The new homeless serve as reminders that the social wel­fare safety nets begun during . the Great Depression and sig­nificantly augmented in the 1960's are failing to prevent extreme destitution among an increasingly large portion of the American population. 
The failure of the welfare sys­tem to cover those who are vulnerable to homelessness is a long-standing fault of a system that essentially ignores the in­come-support problems faced by unattached adults. The Reagan administration has not succeeded in dismantling any significant portion of the net, but has made the mesh so coarse and weak that many fall through and hit bottom. Those who are disabled by the handi­caps of minority status, chronic mental illness, physical illness, or substance abuse are espe­cially vulnerable. 
The social welfare system has never been very attentive to unattached men, but now it ap­pears to be as unresponsive to unattached females. The slow erosion of the safety net has left gaps in the system through which have fallen the men and women of the streets, the shelters, and the welfare hotels. 
Likewise, the social welfare system does little to help fami­lies support their dependent adult members. Many of the old homeless, those of the 1950's and early 1960's, were pushed out or thrown away by their families when they passed the peak of adulthood, having reached age fifty or sixty. 
Many of the new homeless are products of a similar process, but one that begins at age twenty-five or thirty. With their disabilities, they have ex­hausted the patience and re­sources of relatives and friends no longer willing or able to support them. 
As a result, homelessness now looms large on our political agenda, and there is much concern about what can be done. I have suggested a number of measures that might be taken to reduce homelessness to a more ac­ceptable level. These include: 
-compensating for the fail­ures of our housing market by fostering the retention and en­largement of our urban low-in­come housing stock, especially housing appropriate for unattached persons; 
-reversing the policy of the last two decades that has put personal choice above institu­tionalization for those so severely disabled that they are unable to make choices that will preserve their lives and physical well-being; 
-enlarging the concept of disability to include conditions no.t purely physical in character, and in particular, recognizing chronic mental illness and chronic alcoholism for the pro­found disabilities that they are; 
-restoring the real value of welfare payments to levels above bare subsistence, to the purchasing power of the late 1960's; and 
-extending welfare benefits to unattached adults who are not senior citizens and the households that provide them with shelter and support. 
There is considerable public support in the United States for a social welfare system that guarantees a minimally decent standard of living to all. Homelessness on the scale cur­rently being experienced is clear evidence that such a sys­tem is not yet in place. 
That the current level of na­tional prosperity is literally without historic parallel is like­wise clear evidence that some­thing can be done about the problem if the national will is there. I have tried to stress that public policy decisions have in large measure created the problem of homelessness. They can solve the problem as well. 

Photo courtesy of Jim Hubbard and NO Student Government 
As they become more aware of the problems of the homeless, more people begin to try to work to correct them through demonstrations such as this one. 
Photo courtesy of Jim Hubbard and NO Student Government After leaving Christ House, a homeless shelter in Old Town Alexandria, the Fitzgerald family moved into smaller quarters in Section 8 housing. 
Viewpoint

page 10 Thursday, November 19, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Policy demands Osco boycott Honor Code should be 
extended to dining hall
Dear Editor: 
I am writing this letter in re­sponse to an incident which oc­curred Monday night at the Osco Drugs in University Park Mall. It takes a great deal of abuse to get me angry, but I got this and more from a manager there, and instead of letting him have it, I decided to take all of this positive energy and do something useful with it. 
The incident in question took place when, after shopping with my girlfriend, I decided to grab some beer for a "social gathering" before the Def Lep­pard concert, as I had a few friends coming over for the show. 
I got a case of the old standby, plopped my driver's license down on the counter (I am 21, of course) and prepared to pay for it when the saleslady informed me in an apologetic voice "I'm sorry, but I can't ac­cept an out of state driver's li­cense." Huh? I knew people had very little respect for Al­abama, which is where I hail from, but I also knew Indiana had no room to criticize. 
In addition, I had purchased beer from this particular store before. Thinking that she had doubts as to whether I was the guy on the license, I asked her if she would accept another 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the letter written by Ted Stephan (The Observer Nov. 9, 1992) and to all those who share his opinion that the abortion issue is a single issue and that those with strong convictions regarding the issue are extremists. 
The abortion issue is not just another in a myriad of issues concerning the people of this nation; it certainly should not be for a true Christian. If to be Christian means to imitate Christ, than we as Christians are called to spread the gospel messages. "Love God. Love your neighbor. Die to self. Take up your cross and follow me." 
The gospel message is full of instructions on how a follower can attain eternal life in the glory of Heaven. I do not recall ever having read statements from Jesus instructing His fol­lowers on how to better their economy so that they could have more things in this world. 
In fact, it seems to me that Jesus, born in a manger, lived most of his life as a humble carpenter (not a lucrative busi­ness to my knowledge). If, per­chance, he did make 'oodles' of money, He left it all when He became a mendicant preacher for the last three years of his life. 
He wanted to teach people to become rich in love for God, and by being so, rich in love for their neighbor. Then, when the form of ID. I had two credit cards, a gas card, my student ID and my social security card, all among the life membership cards for bars that I had tucked away in my wallet. She didn't think so but was nice enough to get the manager in charge of the policy to make sure. 
When I began asking this gentleman about secondary forms of ID, I was interrupted with a curt "NO!" which was then followed by a terse, hostile explanation about this gentle­man being "burned too may times" and "having to protect his liquor license," the result of which was stated as "I will not sell to a Notre Dame student who does not have an Indiana State driver's license." 
My observation that the vast majority of students at Notre Dame are not from Indiana was ignored as irrelevant. This manager's attitude and manner were extremely disrespectful, rude, and antagonistic, the most so that I have ever en­countered in a vendor. Even the saleslady who had called him looked perturbed. 
What it boils down to is this: Osco Drugs of U.P. Mall appar­ently has a prohibition against the purchase of alcohol by a person without an Indiana state driver's license in general, and a prohibition against the pur­
truth of his message incensed the people of his country so much as to deliver Him up to be crucified, He, God's own Son, humbled Himself to save us. He suffered abandonment by His closest friends, calumny from His enemies, injury from those who flogged, spit, and crucified Him, humiliation by those who stripped Him in public and mocked Him, and the torment of seeing those who loved Him, especially His own mother, weep for Him. This is who we profess to follow. Do we really try to imitate Christ or are we just historians who trust the man existed .and know His story. 
If we are Christians, people truly trying to imitate Christ and follow His teachings, than we must make abortion, or rather the butchering ofde­fenseless, voiceless, innocent babies (for that is the gruesome reality of abortion) the central issue in our life. 
To sacrifice all, not to mention a little inconvenience or ridicule, to save one life is to be Christian. To try to dissuade a distraught mother from murdering her own flesh and blood, God's own creation developing within her, is to love her and save her from com­mitting a grave sin. 
It is our obligation as Chris­tians. It is not being extremist, unless by that you mean loving to the extreme. "Whatsoever you do to the least of my people, chase of alcohol by Notre Dame students of legal age who hap­pen to come from another state in particular. 
Regardless of the dubious le­gality of such a mandate, the information was imparted to me in an inappropriate, em­barrassing, and ultimately unacceptable fashion. 
I very much received the im­pression that this new policy was focused towards Notre Dame students, and though I am aware that, being a college student, businesses will often give me the run-around, I was offended and angered enough to take action in a way that hopefully will change their atti­tude towards Notre Dame stu­dents. 
I am asking Notre Dame stu­dents, as a community, to stop shopping at Osco Drugs of U.P. Mall, until it reevaluates its po­sition towards us. We represent a substantial portion of their income, and if they think they can take us for granted, they are certainly in for a surprise. 
Even if my plea falls on deaf ears, I know one thing: Osco Drugs has lost this customer permanently. 
Joe Hill Grace Hall Nov. 16, 1992 
that you do unto me." These are the words of our Christ-don't they mean anything? 
I submit that they are a charge for each person who cLaims to be Christian to see Christ in everyone-the poor person on the street, the lonely nerd down the hall, the head­banging junkie, the pregnant teenager, the disappointed parents, and the innocent child developing in what should be the protection of his own mother's womb. If I love these people, I will do whatever pos­sible to see that they can know the joy and peace of dying to personal power, wealth, and desires, and living for God. 
Our nation allows the legal dismembering of babies. Every day for close to twenty-years an average of 4,400 babies are murdered. Why is it that this news no longer horrifies every Christian? This is only the ba­bies killed. The babies are the lucky ones. They suffer a cruel death, but they are blameless. 
We, on the other hand, must answer for our ability to con­tinue living comfortable lives of apathy while our progeny are massacred daily. Each Christian who does not actively oppose the slaughter of the innocence and consider this a central issue must examine if he is really living out the Christian message. 
Alicia Scheidler Knott Hall Nov. 15, 1992 



Dear Editor: 
Why is it that we, as students at the University of Notre Dame, can be trusted to take a test in a large lecture hall, sit­ting shoulder to shoulder with other students, without cheat­ing and yet need to be proc­tored as we leave the dining hall for fear that we have taken an extra piece of food? 
The rules about taking food out of the dining hall say that only one piece of fruit and one piece of pastry are allowed out with each person. Why so stringent? We all paid for the food that we eat and few if any­one would ever try to take armfuls of food back to their dorm with them. If taking too much food out of the dining hall is such a problem, the best so­lution might be to extend the honor code to the amount of food that is taken out of the dining hall. 
Just as most students are scared to death of being put on trial or expelled for cheating on a test, most would probably be embarrassed to be caught taking too much food out of the dining hall without good reason. The honor code is based on the assumption that people are inherently good. Since the University seems to believe this theory, they should extend their beliefs to the University Food Services rather than allowing themselves to seem hypocritical. 
To justify the need for some people to take extra food out of the dining hall occasionally, the.re are situations in which this is necessary and should be readily acceptable. For exam­
. pie, someone who may be too ill to go to the dining hall to eat may need to ask his/her roommate to bring him/her back something to eat. With the rules that exist, it would be nearly impossible for the ill person to eat anything comparable to the meal he/she is entitled to without spending any money. There is no reason for that person to have to spend money by asking someone to go to LaFortune to buy him/her something to eat or by ordering a pizza. The person paid for each of his/her meals and should not be deprived of one because of the misfortune of 
Dear Editor: 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program would like to thank the ·Notre Dame Men's Basketball Team, the coaches, and all those who helped to or­ganize the Blue and Gold game which was played last Wednes­day evening. 
The game was a wonderful opportunity for many South Bend schoolchildren to spend illness. 
There are also times when one may need to go somewhere or be too busy to sit down in the dining hall in order to eat. In such cases as well, one should be able to pass through the dining hall and grab something that he/she can eat later or on his/her way somewhere or be able to send a friend to do them such a favor. Is it wrong to believe in take-out? 
Of course most people would probably rather sit down at a table to eat a meal with friends and take a study break, how­ever sometimes it just isn't pos­sible and one may need the convenience of being able to take his/her meal with him/her. 
In addition, a consideration that should be made in regard to taking food out of the dining hall, even when taking enough to constitute a meal out isn't necessary, is the type of food that is allowed out. Why do the rules specifically state that the food that may be taken out ap­plies only to fruit and pastry, all other food excluded? 
Obviously, no one is going to attempt to take a plate of spaghetti or a salad back to his/her dorm room. However, there should be nothing wrong with taking out a slice of bread, a sandwich, or other reasonably transportable article of food, especially in such cases as mentioned above. 
To extend the honor code to include the dining hall would simply require an agreement to only take two pieces of food (rather than specifically fruit and pastry) out of the dining hall, unless there is reason to do otherwise, in which case what is taken out constitutes his/her meal or that of another student. 
The dining hall could even reserve the right to question a student who seems to be taking advantage of their trust or to ask for the identification of the student whom a meal is being procured for. However, to ex­tend the honor code to the Uni­versity Food Services would establish a better consistency in the University's practice of trust. 
Cecylia Mizera Lyons Hall Nov. 15, 1992 
time with their Notre Dame tutors and to watch our basketball team. We hope that the tradition may be continued in coming years. Again, thank you very much. 
Paul Chisholm Andrew Dinan Neighborhood Study Help Program Nov. 17, 1992 
----~ --· ~-­

Accent 
Thursday , November 19, 1992 page 11 
Keepin 
the faith 
Communities ND brings students together to gain abetter understanding of faith in their lives 
By MATT CARBONE 
Accent Writer 
Notre Dame has always been known as a place that nurtures and strengthens a person's religious faith. Now, through the efforts of Campus Ministry, there is an additional means by which to do this -Communities ND. 
Communities ND is a new program developed by Campus Ministry in which "small Christian communities" of ten undergraduates meet for prayer, Bible study, and discussion of issues facing adult Christians in the modern world. 
The purpose of these small faith groups, according to Kate Barrett, a staff member of Campus Ministry and one of the program's founders, is to "integrate students' faith into what it means to be an adult, and to get students talking about things they otherwise wouldn't talk about." 
Barrett and others in Campus Ministry have been designing and honing the program since the second semester of last year. 
Every two weeks, the group will meet in the dorm of one of its members. There will be a reading and discussion of the upcoming Sunday's Gospel, followed by a discussion of a topic concerning Christianity and worship in the present day. 
Each group will be comprised solely of students, both male and female. The only basis that will be used for the formation of the groups will be at what times during the week each student is free, as indicated on the student's communities will energize people to service." 

McDermott says that students have been looking for ways to come to a better understanding of their faith, and for ways to integrate this faith in their lives. He noticed a need for a program like Communities ND at the retreats held for graduating seniors. 
"Again and again, I saw these graduates coming out of the retreats saying, "I wished I'd talked about these things sooner,"' says McDermott. Through Communities ND, Campus Ministry hopes to remedy this situation by getting students talking about their faith in the earlier years of their academic careers. 
Ideally, the faith groups would be formed in undergraduates' freshman years, and would be kept together for all four years of the members' time at ND. This year, however, sophomore and juniors, as well as freshman, will be allowed into the program. 
For those interested in joining the program, sign-up forms will be available after Thanksgiving break in both the Badin Hall and Hesburgh Library offices of Campus Ministry. 
The program's directors ask only that each student commit for six meetings; atapplication form. founder of Communities ND. 
that point, a participant is free to decideBesides forming the groups, the only Suggested topics for next semester whether or not he or she would like toother way in which Campus Ministry will include "Families and Our Faith" -how continue.
be involved in Communities ND is in the did we learn our religion form our 
Each student also has the option of
suggestion of topics to be discussed. parents; "Relationships"; and "Turning 
signing up with a friend, although
Campus Ministry suggests these topics Faith into Action." Communities ND is Barrett does not necessarily recommend "to help the group become more stable "designed to invite people to take more this, saying that Communities ND will be and trusting," says Father Tom responsibility in their own lives," says a good chance to meet new people.
McDermott, another staff member and McDermott. "The real hope is that the 
Students interpret Shakespeare's work through performance 
By KENYA JOHNSON 
Assistant Accent Editor 
"There is something rotten in the state of Denmark." 
Students across the country would have no problems iden­tifying this famous quote from Shakespeare's "Hamlet," but few would understand it as well as the Notre Dame students in Professor Paul Rathburn's class, Shakespearean Performances. 
The class is listed as an English course, but there is also a fair amount of performing which takes place in the class. 
"Traditionally there's been a conflict existing between the­ater direction and literary cri­tique," said Rathburn. The merging of the two different, almost conflicting perspectives is what makes the course so intriguing, according to Rathburn. 
proaches to Shakespeare on the other hand," he said. 
The students are asked to study the meter and verse of a line as well as the stage directions, which are imbedded in the text. Essentially, to fulfill both literary and theatrical ap­proaches, the students must read closely and understand the text completely. 
Junior Laura Niemann said she didn't really know what to expect from the class. 
"It really is so much more intense than other literature classes because of the theatrics," said Niemann. "I thought actually the class might be rather dry, but it's far from it." 
Characters must be thoroughly researched in order to do a complete job. "To act out Benedict in just one scene of Act III of 'Much To Do About Nothing,' the student must derstand the whole Benedict character in order to portray him successfully." 
In the course, Rathburn stresses that plays are much more than documents or a history of ideas. 
"The plays were not intended to be read quietly," he ex­plained. "Shakespeare wrote his works to be performed." 
"If you just look at a musical score by Beethoven, all you would see is notes. You don't have a symphony until it's performed, just as you don't have a Shakespeare play until it's performed," said Rathburn. 
Shakespeare works depend upon the interaction of the text, the actor, and the audience, all of which are present in Rath­burn's classroom. 
Students are judged not on their acting ability, but rather on their reasoning for the way the play, according to Rathburn. 

Rathburn is not the only cru­sader on this literary quest. Mrs. Carol MacLeod, wife of Notre Dame basketball coach John MacLeod, teaches the students various acting and directing maneuvers that will help express clear, effective scenes. 
MacLeod is a New York actress and has recently founded an acting theater. 
"I can't say enough about his class," said senior Jeanne Blasi. "We learn how the scenes really work. It's also neat to work 
Shakespearean Performance is a recently established course resulting from a Lilly ­Foundation Grant. The class began in the 1988-1989 academic year and has by far been the "most dynamic" class, according to Rathburn. 
Correction: 
An Accent article in Wednesday's Observer mistakenly referred to Phil Collen as the new member of Def Leppard. The 
"The class attempts to create a marriage between theatrical approaches to Shakespeare on one hand and literary ap­know everything about Benedict," explained Rathburn. "Just reading the scene would not be enough. You must un­
the choose to act out a scene. The interpretations reveal how closely a student has read and how well they have understood 
togBther and with Mrs. MacLeod and perform a production. People really get into it," she added. 
name of the new member is Vivian Campbell. The Observer regrets this error. 
page 12 The Observer Thursday, November 19, 1992 
Syracuse showdown with top-ranked Miami a big deal 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. (AP) -It's Upsetting the No. 1 team window," Hurricanes coach national championship chase of the league, which was the biggest happening ever at would elevate Syracuse's Dennis Erickson said. "We know into a scramble. formed prior to the 1991 sea­Syracuse. It's the biggest game standing in the college football where we're at." No matter who loses the 
son, can only be enhanced byin the young history of the Big world and fuel the Orangemen's 

Not only is the Big East game, the Big East Conference having games with national title East. longshot chance at the national championship at stake, so is comes out a winner. implications.Even by the huge standards title. Miami's 27 -game winning of top-ranked Miami (9-0), Sat­But even for Miami, a team streak. It would seem the conference "We're still so young -we urday's showdown against No.8 that routinely finds itself in the Even more importantly, a needs little more to establish its don't even get into a full con­Syracuse (9-1) is a big deal. spotlight, Saturday's game in loss by the Hurricanes would credibility since it has already ference schedule until next year
"We're looking forward to the Carrier Dome is more than ruin their aspirations to become joined a coalition that assures -and already we have what it," Syracuse guard Terrence a routine "big game." the first team since the 1955-its top two teams of getting could be the premier game of Wisdom said. "It's a chance of a 1956 Oklahoma Sooners to win bowl bids. 
the year in college football lifetime. It's a chance to make "All these things we've ac­consecutive national titles with But commissioner Mike involving two of our teams,"history." complished can go right out the perfect records and throw the Tranghese said the reputation Tranghese said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 

12/09 
ATIENTION: 
For more information and 
assistance regarding the 
investigation of financing, business 
opportunities and work-at-home 
opportunities, THE OBSERVER 
urges its readers to contact the 
Better Business Bureau of 
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., 
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­
9121 or 800-439-5313. 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
TYPING 287-4082 
Guaranteed Free Spring Break Trip To Bahamas or Panama City! Cancun, Jamaica, Daytona, Keys! Sign-Up Before 12/11/92! Springbreak! 1-800-678-6386. 
''Spring Break!" Bahamas Cruise (+10 Meals) $279! Panama City with kitchen $119 Cancun $429! Jamaica $479! Daytona (kitchens) $149! KeyWest $249! Prices increase 12/11/92! 
1-800-678-6386 
$$TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT: Make $$$$$ and assist Ameritech Information Sys. with the ND telephone conversion. We have evening work available in Decem­ber and all shifts over Christmas break. Please call 239-8856 for more information. 
All WORDPROCESSING services. Andy 234-8789 
ATIENTION SENIORS 

TONIGHT SENIOR SKATE NIGHT FREE ICE SKATING JACC 10:30-12:30 
ATIENTION SENIORS 

ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: Old St. Louis Browns hat. Gray with Brown brim and yellow lettering. Might have been lost near Stepan. Very high sentimental value. Call Wally x3443. $$Reward$$ 
LOST: I LOST MY DORM KEYS IF YOU FIND SOME KEYS CALL X1745: REWARD 
'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'& 
HELP ME.... 
I lost my jacket at the Spin Doctors concert ... 
It's a green barn jacket with blue corduroy cuffs and collar and the label says Forester. 
You know how cold it gets in South Bend. I NEED my coat. 
Plus it has sentimental value because my sister gave it to me and she doesn't live in the country anymore. 
If you found it, please contact Bethany at 283-2702. 
&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'& 
LOST: Silver and green Claddaugh ring at Senior Bar on Thurs. 5 Nov. Sentimental value! Erin x3867 
FOUND: COIN CHARM OUTSIDE 
OF LAFORTUNE. CALL ANGEL 
239-8422. 
LOST: (11/4 in Chem Lab) 
Adjustable fake-silver ring with 
green plastic stone. This ad costs 
me more than it is worth! 
Call 2721 and ask for Bridget if 
you've got it. 
HELP HELP HELP I lost a green irish scarf @ the 'backer this weekend I know that it is not the nicest thing in the world, but it has a lot of sentimental value. If you found it, please give me a call. Thank you for saving the remnant of my childhood. 
Mike 283-1161 Help Help Help Help 
LOST -Gold Claddagh wedding 
band in front of Macris Deli 
HUGE CASH REWARD! 
Call Liz 1271 
HELP I LOST: simple gold ring with a pearl in the middle on 11/17 somewhere between Haggar and Walsh. Great sent. value! If you find it you will gain a friend for life and some $ too. Anne X2995 
LOST: Sister's N.J. license on B.C. wkend name-Meghan Shannon 
REWARD! call Joellenx4814 
LOST! SENTIMENTAL WATCH 
(GOLD/SILVER) IN THE JEWELRY DEPT. OF HAMMES BOOKSTORE AROUND 2-3 PM ON TUESDAY, NOV. 10, 1992. PLEASE CONTACT ND SECURITY -VERY IMPORTANT!! 
Found: Set of keys, in Niewland Physics 
Hall bathroom. Five keys, several 
labelled 614 Call x1665 
LOST-AT BRIDGETS AFTER BC 
GAME, A PURPLE SKI JACKET 
WITH A PINK ZIP-OUT LINER. 
PLEASE CALL MIKE X1103 
LOST IN THE FIELD FRENZV 
AFTER THE IRISH VICTORY: 
Blue Noter Dame w/ about 8 beer 
caps snaped to it. A Green snap on hood. A Blue snap on hood. 
$$$$ CASH $$$$$$$$ 
$$$$ REWARD $$$$$$$$ 
Happy Happy! Joy Joy! 
Ren & Stimpy Rules 
HELP ... SKI SEASON IS NEAR !!! 
BUT my SKIIS are NOT HERE. LOST: Two pairs of downhill skiis in blue ski bag,(Rossignol 4S & K2) LAST SEEN: Farley Hall , but could be anywhere. I know, pretty difficult to "lose" ... Please contact Paula w/ and for info @ 4271. Reward if found. Thanks. 
WANTED 
************WANTED************** 
Ride to Scranton, PA or any where along 1-80 in PA for Thanksgiving. Will help with gas, tolls and driving. Flexible in departure and return times. CALL JILL@ X4758 
Need ride to Delaware Valley area for Thanksgiving. Will share costs & driving. Eric x1200 
Need a ride to Chicago on Fri. I can help pay gas and tolls. Call Jon @ 233-8522 and leave 
a message. 
Typist Needed 
Fri AM 
$ $ 
289-3698 
Need a ride to Purdue in West Lafayette this weekend. Call Andrea at 2721. Will help with gas and tolls. 

DIVING COACH NEEDED FOR 
HIGH SCHOOL TEAM 
SUBSTANTIAL SALARY 
FOR MORE INFO 
CALL BECKY 283-2689 
Need Ride to Dayton or Indy this 
weekend. Help! call Sean x1 067 
Need ride to DAYTON I SW OHIO on FRI11/20. Will pay gas. 
Paul x3665. 
Looking for a male undergrad who wants to move off campus for summer or next year. A friend of mine is moving out to South Bend and is in desperate need of finding a roommate. He's a really nice guy. I promise. If you're interested please call Maria x4266 -you won't be sorry II 
FOR RENT 
Room for Rent For 2nd Sem: House 5 min from campus. Call287-4227 
Room for Rent: Non-smoking female grad student. Limited kitchen facilities. 288-2232 before 1 pm. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 
FOR SALE 
Selling a plane ticket to North Carolina over Thanksgiving break. 
Interested? Call Dave at 283-3662. 
SKIS 

Atomic 833 sl -203 em. new, great price call Kevin x 1 062 
For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call 
Rita Delivery on Campus 
234-6524 
SEGA GENESIS & GMS: BST OFR 273-2514 
SONY INTEGRATED AMPLIFIER 
135 watts/channel, full remote, EQ 
NEVER USED. $150 I OBO 
Jason x2990 
1931 Knute Rocke Limited Edition Autobiography 
#2039 of 2400, signed, best offer. 
Kennedy books also; ph 277-037 4 evenings. 
TICKETS 
@@@@@@@@@@ 
Feel the sun, Feel the sand, See the coast, Enjoy the culture, 
All this and more for those who buy my USC GAs. 
Go to CALl & not South Bend with the help of my GAs. 
Clarke 234-9433 
@2@2@2@2@2@ 
Selling 4 USC tix John 277-5415 
·usc· usc·usc·usc·usc· 
If you know anyone who wants to watch ND kick UC's butt over Thanksgiving, I have FOUR (4) GA's that must be unloaded ASAP; these are great seats-let's help each other! Call Matt x2124 
FOR SALE-2 U.S.C. TIX CALL TED-513-492-5190 
I need two USC TICKETS II Tara #4766 
PERSONAL 
ATIENTION: Anyone needing a ride to PA or NJ along 1-80 for Thanksgiving. I'm leaving on Monday After­noon and returning Sunday 11/29. Call Rocky @1756. 
Hey Niff 

OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 
PAWN BUY SELL TRADE 
OZARK TRADING POST 1530 WESTERN AVE. 287-7550 

ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Confidential and legal. Expenses paid. Call Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805) 520-5978 or attorney (818) 241­5535. 
11!1!!1!!111!111!!!!!!1!!1!!!!1!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!11!1111!! 
Watch out, this Friday Nov. 20 HOBBES turns 21, Beware 
!!!!!!1!1!!!!111111111!1111!111111!11!11!11111!!!!!!!!1! 
MEN AND WOMEN 

FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE 
For more info, call COSIMO'S 277-1875. 
SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK '93! JAMAICA, CANCUN, FLORIOA FROM $119. BOOK EARLY, SAVE $$. ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL FREE! CALL 1-800-426-7710. 
$5.50 HAIRCUTS 

VITO'S BARBER & STYLING SHOP 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 233-4767 
Saturday's were made for SYR's (Christmas ones)ll 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Watch out, HOBBES is turning 21 on Friday, Nov. 20 (That is Cup Nile @ midnite for all you real drinkers) 
11!11!11!1!1!!!11111!!1!!111!1!11!1!!!1!!1!11!11!!!!11 
Need ride for 2 to Cleveland area for Thanksgiving. Right off 1-80 Will pay gas and tolls. Call Jill X3705 
PLEASE HELP, NEED RIDE FOR 2 TO DAYTON, OH FOR THANKSGIVING, WILL HELP PAY GAS/TOLLS. CALL DAN, X2318 
Anyone interested in seeing COLLEEN ROONEY show her true stuff. Come to the Sophomore Class One-Act Plays. Good Luck Coli 
Love, Amy and Mike 

Hey LARIMORE !!!!!! I think you need to check your E-mail, Pokey! •Tara• 
Uncle Roscoe is coming for Christmas!! Washington Hall Dec.3,4,5 
Melanie "Farmer" Bauer: Guess what? It's the big day--hope you didn't forget! Have a happy 21st. Drink one for us. Love, Jen and Jory LOSE FAT! Healthy, guaranteed diet program. Affordable. Call (616)471­3970. 
HEY JEN BEISTY (our favorite RA-and you know what it means!!!) 
HAVE YOU MENTIONED THAT TONY'S COMING TO TOWN IN THE LAST FIVE MINUTES??? 
RICH, HAVE FUN WITH YOUR HOT DATES THIS WEEKEND! I'LL PICK YOU UP AT 8­THEN AGAIN, MAYBE EARLIER. -BLAS 
COLL, SABOL, JEN, IT'S TIME TO PARTY HARD. ONLY ONE SEMESTER LEFT. 
COLL, how about your plans for monday night? You couldn't have forgot, seeing as you reminded us 20 times during the game! 
Sabol, PARTY HARD. 

-Love, your most favorite Walshiite friend. 
EARTH JAM '92 3-7 PM Stepan Center 
BANDS! BANDS! BANDS! 
... Brian, Colin & Vince ... Dysfunktion ... Grope for Luna 
"' Sister Chain 
$1 Admission for all day! 
HEY Pangborn! -congrats for one week w/o making security beat! 
WILDLIFE T-SHIRTS, MEX. BLANKETS, BUTIONS, BUMPER STICKERS, POSTCARDS, '93 GIFT CALENDARS, DATE BOOKS, & MORE ON SALE NOW. 
108 LAFORTUNE 10:30-4:30. GREAT HOLIDAY GIFTS!! 
TOP TEN FROM RHUBARB REHEARSAL 
10. Don't you worry another more minute. 
9. Josh's tongue-'nuff said 
8. Ooodydoodypomegranete. 
7. Here, I can read 
6. Who's going to undress me tonight? 
5. Josh and the Crisco bottle-nuff said 
4. How I miss eating hairy pie 
3. Papa, you're too old to wear lingerie 
2. Josh-nuff said. 
1. You can't have your testicles and eat them too! · Break a leg tonight! Love, M&J 
Desparately seeking ride to INDIANA UNIVERSITY early Sat. 11/21 and returning Sunday Will Pay Call4656 
MARGE 

Hey NDE 23! I just wanted to remind you of the little yellow bracelet on my wrist. It's till there, and it's still my prayer for you. May God bless your socks off ... I love you. The Graybuck Muck Luck's Engine ! ! ! I ! ! ! !! ! ! I ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! I ! ! I ! I I !! 
HELP! We have had an overwhelming #of requests for Thanksgiving baskets this year. PLEASE help us shop, arrange and/or deliver, and share the blessings of the holiday with families in need. 
Monday-Wednesday, 11/23-25: 8 a.m.-meet at the CSC to go grocercy shopping. 12 noon-4 p.m.-come to the esc at any time to help put food in baskets. 4 p.m. on-Help deliver baskets to homes in the area. 
They need you. Please help us. Call 2639, 4059, or 271-7889 with questions. 
God bless. The World Hunger Coalition 
Hi Robert, thought I'd send some 
• love from Rome. I miss you. It's almost Jan. 6! Can't wait 2 see U. Ti amo caro mio, Leah 
Christmas comes early this year. NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB CHRISTMAS CONCERT Saturday, December 12, at 8:15p.m. in the J.A.C.C. 
Kara (NESTLE) 
U NEE, U NEE, U Nee Friday night is our last dance, Hope its a wonderful time. Can't wait to see you 
p.s. Thanks for stuff the boy 
I'm driving to ATHENS, GA (via atlanta) for Thanksgiving & I NEED someone to ride with me. If interested, please call 283-2454 for details. 
Twas the night before the formal. And all through the house. Every creature was stirring. Why? It's UNCLE ROSCOE, that louse! 
BOSTON, BOSTON, BOSTON!!! 
Desperate student needs ride to BOSTON for Thanksgiving! Will pay AT LEAST HALF of expenses! If you have room, please call BEN at x1658. 
"SPECIAL K" & "DANNY" 
How are those pearly whites? 
SMILE!! 
-AI 
Gina & Joel 
Good luck tonite! I hope all of those drunken practices will pay off. Break a leg! 
Tilts 
VAMPIRE VICTIM 
Can I give you a call some time? Have fun at your dance. 
DRACULA 
p.s. I won't go for blood again 
He's soooooooooo great!!! 
I REALLY like him! 
I don't WANT to like him--I just cant' help it!!! 
I am completely in control of my life!! 

-
Thursday, November 19, 1992 The Observer page 13 ..... ..... ..... ..... ............ ..... ..... ..... ..... ­
.. . . . .. . . ' -0
'~ > : : : :: : : ,, I'.';'
c:::> ~:&W· ~ A ' ; ..... ..... ..... ...... . ...... ..... . ~ 1/) CD ~ ~\., ~ w ::':!'\'~' ••••••: •••••• ••••• •••••••••• ~ •••••==..... ~ ··.. ..... ·~ ..,~~ ~ 
baaenan, n Alex Aria, lhort8lop. Traded Danny Strom, quarterback. NBA INDIVIDUAL SlATS Jlldlaon, pitcher, to the Philadelphia Phllll• lot SEATTLE SEAHAWKS-Announcad KirkAaalata 
G No Avg. 

Joel AdarNOn and Matt Whlaenant, pltchera. Scrallord, guard, claimed on wal\wa, has failed hlaStockton, Lhah 6 77 12.8 lol. Jackson, LAC 7 65 9.3 
Traded Eric Haland, catcher, and a player to ba phyalcal axamlnallon and 'MX11 join tha team. 
NBA Laadara Field Goal P.,cantaga 
named lalar to tha Oakland Athlellca lor wan WASHINGTON REDSKINS--¥1aoad Martin
Williams, Minn. 6 55 9.2
NEW YORK (AP) -NBA Individual FG FGA Pet Walas, ahorlatop. Traded Tom Edana, pitcher, to Mayhew, comllfback, on Injured reaarva. Signed

Adam&, Wash. 7 63 9.0
scoring, field goal percentage, rebounding and 
Cauawell, Sac. 33 52 .635 tha Houaton Aatroa lor Brian Grlffhha and Hector Mickey Washington, corl*badl, oil walvet1 from 
assist leadets through Novambar 17: Edwards, Mil. 56 91 .615 Hardaway, G.S. 7 63 9.0 New England.Murdock. loiN. 7 60 8.6 
Carrasco, pltchara.
Scoring WIUiams, Port 19 31 .613 Arana Football Laague
BASKETBALLG FG FT Pta Avg Owana,G.S. 69 113 .611 National Baakatball Aaaoclatlon CLEVELAND THUNDERBOLT5-Signed an
Boguas, Char. 7 55 7.9 
K. Malone, Lhah 6 62 60 185 PW&n.Chl. 7 55 7.9
30.8 K. Malone, Lhalh 62 102 .608 CLEVELAND CAVALIER5-Piacad Brad agraement whh tha Richfield Coliseum through tha
Smith, Hou.
Wilkins, AIL 6 58 57 180 30.0 EUe, Port. 23 38 .805 5 39 7.8 1996 season.
Hornacek, Phil. 4 31 Daugherty, -·on tha Injured llet. Actlvaled Jay
Jordan, Chi. 7 83 35 209 29.9 Robartaon, MH. 40 68 .588 7.8 HOCKEYBarkley, Phoe. 5 44 43 131 26.2 Brown, Sac. Guldlnger, -·
34 58 .588 Continental Baakatball AHoclatlon National Hockay LaagueAndaraon. Ori. 5 44 35 129 25.8 Brickowakl, loiN. 36 62 .581 TRANSACTIONS OKI..AHOMA CITY CAVALAY--¥1aced Quintin BOSTON BRUINs-Sent Glen Murray. right
O'Neal, Oil 5 48 33 129 25.8 Gambia, Boa. 
30 52 .5n Dalley and Dirk lollnnlelleld, guards, on tha Injured wing, to Providence, of the American HockeyMullln,G.S. 7 68 32 172 24.6 
BASEBALL lilt Signed Sabaatlan Neal, torward, and Jerome League. Called up Jozal Stumpal, forward. from Hornacek, PhH. 4 34 26 98 24.5 Rebounding American L..gue Henderson, canter. Providence. 
Robinson. S.A. 6 
49 43 141 23.5 G Off Def Tot Avg CLEVELAND INDIANS-Named Marc OMAHA RACERs-Acquired tha rigttato Matt NEW YORK ISLANDER5-Callad up TravisSelkaly, Mia. 6 50 40 141 23.5 O'Neal,Orl. 5 28 54 82 16.4 Bombard manager a1 Indianapolis ol the American Fish. canter, from tha Fort Wayne Fury lor a 1993 Gl'88fl, center, from Capital Dialriel ol tha American Olajuwon. Hou. 5 46 24 116 23.2 Barkley, Phoe. 5 24 50 74 14.8 
Aaaociallon. second-round draft pick. Signed Steve Criss, Hockey Laague. Assigned Tom Kurvers,Owens,G.S. 7 69 24 162 23.1 Olajuwon, Hou. 5 19 55 74 14.8 SEATTLE MARINERs-Traded Kevin Mttchel~ canter. delenaeman, and Marty Mcinnis, forward. to Jackson, Den. 8 55 18 138 23.0 Coleman, N.J. 7 29 64 93 13.3 
oulflelder, to the Cincinnati Reds lor Norm ROCKFORD LIGHTNING-Placed Mario Capital District.
Petrovic, N.J. 7 59 38 180 22.9 K. Malone, Lhalh 6 13 62 75 12.5 
Charlton, pttchar. Donaldson, forward. on tha Injured list. Acquired ST. LOUIS BLUES-Sent Kevin Mlehm,Dumara, Del. 6 47 31 136 22.7 Ewing, N.Y. 7 18 67 85 12.1 
Nallonal League Darren Guaat, canter, from the Sioux Falls canter, to Peoria ol tha International HockeyHardaway, G.S. 7 63-18 158 22.6 Robinson, S.A. 6 20 48 68 11.3 
COLORADO ROCKIES-Traded Kevin Skylorca lor a 1993 abcth-round pick. League.
J. Malone, Lhah 6 52 29 133 22.2 Selkaly, Mia 6 21 47 68 11.3 
Reimer, outfielder, to tha Milwaukee Brawera lor FOOTBALL International Hockey LeagueManning. LAC 7 62 30 154 22.0 Willis, All. 6 25 43 68 11.3 
Dante Blchatte, oulflaldar. Traded Jody Read, National Football Laagua PEORIA RIVERMEN--5ant Peter Kasowskl,Kemp, Sea. 6 47 36 130 21.7 Johnson, Char. 7 17 62 79 11.3 
second baaeman, to the Loe Angeles Dodgara lor NEW YORK JETS-Waived A.B. Brown, forward, to Dayton ol the East Coast HockeyColeman, N.J. 7 53 41 150 21.4 
Rudy Seanaz, pitcher. running back. Signed Johnny Hactor. running League. FLORIDA MARLINs-Traded Greg Hibbard, back. pttchar, to the Chicago Cuba lor Gary Scott, third PIITSBURGH STEELERS-Signed Rick 
CORRECTIONS A!'ill ADDITIQNS IQ .!:l.6J,IT !!QQK ECON ~ADDED ECON ACCf 497 01 #478} -Directed Readings; 1 cr. hr.; TH 04:15.05:30; Practical experience in tax compliance and filing ECON AFAM }26 01 #4758 • Hist. African·American Relig.; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 11:15·12:30; cross·listed with THEO 326 EDUC AFAM 401 01 #4747 • Social justice Biography; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 09,}0-10,45; cross-listed with ECON 401, GOVT 401,SOC 401, BA 401, EE liPS401 EE AFAM 493F 01 #4751 -Representations of Motherhood; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 03,25-04,40; cross-listed with ENGL 493F & GSC 493F EE AME 699 14 #4757 • Research and Dissertation; var. cr. hrs. EE AMST 458 01 #4756 -Latin· American Images of U.S.; J cr.lus.; TH 02,45-04,00; cross-listed with ENGL J16F, liPS 316F, GOVT 3!6F EE ARCH 598) 01 #4787 -AS{feaching Concepts in Design; 3 cr. hrs; MWF 01,15·05'00 FIN BA 401 01 #4750 -Social Justice Biography;} cr. hrs.; TH 09,30-10,45; cross-listed with ECON 401, GOVT 401, SOC 401, BA 401, GEOS IIPS401 GEOS CAPP 470 01 #4792 • Ethics Practkum; 1 cr. hr. GOVT CHEM 55} 01 #4781 . Mathematical Methods in Chemical Physics; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 09,30-10,45 GOVT CHEM 699Z 01 #4782 • Visiting Student Research; 0 cr. hrs.; Permission Required GSC CLGR 102 02 #4794 • Beginning Greek II; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF JO, JO.[J ,oo GSC CLLA 498 01 #4789 -Directed Readings; var. cr. hrs.; Permission Required GSC ECON 455 01 #4785 -Topics in Labor: Human Resources Development; 1 cr. hr.; F 01:15~02:05 GSC ECON 487 01 #4779 -Social-Cultural Features of Russian and East-European Markets; 3 cr. hrs.; T 02o45-05,J5 GSC EE 699R 17 #4791 • Research and Dissertation; var. cr. hrs. GSC EE 699R 18 #479} . Research and Dissertation; var. cr. hrs. GSC ENGL 500 01 #4763 . English for Non-Native Speakers; 0 cr. hrs.; MW J2,15-0UO; Permission Required from)omes H. Powell, Assoc. GSC Dean of Graduate &hool GSC ENGL 500A 01 #4764 . Writing Skills in English; 0 cr. hrs.; MW 04,00.05,15; Permisison Required from James H. Powell, Assoc. GSC Dean of Graduate &hool GSC ENGL 600 01 #4765 • Non~ Resident Thesis Direction; l cr. hr.; Permission Required GSC GOVT 401 01 #4748 . Social justice Biography; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 09,30-10,45; cross-listed with ECON 401, GOVT 401, SOC 401, BA 401, GSC l!PS401 GSC GOVT 494R 02 #4766 . Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required GSC GOVT 494R 03 #4767 . Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required GSC GOVT 494R 04 #4768 • Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required GOVT GOVT 494R 05 #4769 • Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required GOVT GOVT 494R 06 #4770 • Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required HlST GOVT 494R 07 #4771 • Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required HlST GOVT 494R 08 #4772 . Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required HlST GOVT 494R 09 #477} • Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required HIST GOVT 494R 10 #4774 -Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required HIST GOVT 494R 11 #4775 • Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required liPS GOVT 494R 12 #4776 -Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required liPS GOVT 494R u #4788 -Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required MARK GOVT 495R 02 #4778 • Area Studies Essay; 3 cr. hrs.; Permission Required MATH GOVT 495R 03 #4777 • Area Studies Essay; 3 cr. hrs.; Permission Required MATH PHIL 258 01 #4759 -Philosophy and Poverty; 3 cr. hrs.; TH OU5-02,JO MATH PHIL 258 02 #4760 • Philosophy and Poverty; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 02,45·04,00 MBA PHYS 309 01 #]723. Add pre·requisiteo "PHYS 116 or 118 or 142 or 222" MBA PHYS 3}3 01 #()653 • Add pre·requisiteo "MATH 212 or EG 120 or PHYS 471" MBA ROPO !01 01 #4784 • Beginning Portuguese I; 3 cr. hrs.; MWFOJ,25-04,J5 MBA ROPO !02 01 #4761 . Beginning Ponuguese ll; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 09,30-10,45; ROPO 101 prerequisite MBA soc 370 01 #4752 . Self and Society; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 02,20-03'10 MBA soc 401 01 #4749 -Social justice Biography; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 09,30-10,45; cross·listed with ECON 401, GOVr 401, SOC 401, BA 401, MBA IIPS401 MBA soc 560 01 #4790 . Sociology of Education Seminar; 3 cr. hrs.; M 03oi5-05,45 MBA soc 599 01 #4762 • Thesis Direction; var. cr. hrs. MBA THEO 400 01 #4746 • Proseminar; I cr. hr.; W 03,50-05,05 MBA THEO 655 01 #4415 • Moral Phil & Theological Ethic; 3 cr. hrs.; T 09JO·J2,00 MBA THEO 672 01 #4547 . Eastern Liturgies Seminar;} cr. hrs.; F 09,JO.J2,00 MBA THEO 679 01 #4408 -Reformation Liturgies; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 02,20-0J,J5 MBA THEO 683 01 #2602 -Liturgical Theology Seminar;} cr. hrs.; W 09,30-12'00 MBA THEO 698 01 #2635 -Directed Readings; var. cr. hrs. ME THEO 699 01 #!654­Dissertation Research; var. cr. hrs. ME THEO 700 01 #!235 . Nonresident Dissertation Research; 1 cr. hr. ME ~ Ml AERO 465 01 #4012 . Add restriction: "Engineering Seniors only" ML)A AME 680 01 #4456 • Change to 0.0 credit hours MSE AMST 360 01 #4684 -Add restriction: "Majors only through lst period; then open to aU" PHIL ARCH 144 01 #2258 • Change time to' MWF 10'10-11 ,oo PHIL ARCH 553 01 #!225 • Change time to' MWF !U5-!2,05 PHIL ARHI 481 01 #}646 • Change to "Permission Required" & Remove prerequisite PHYS BA 391 01 #()393 . Change to 3 credit hours PHYS BA 391 02 #!296 -Change to 3 credit hours ROPO BA }91 OJ #!690. Change to 3 credit hours sc BA 464 01 #}Ill · Add restriction: "Accounting majors only" soc BIOS HIA 01 #4511 . Remove corequisite; Add pre\corequisite: "CHEM 223" soc BIOS 521 01 #}212 • Course is llQl permission required soc CHEM 202 01 #4514 -Change days/time to' H OU5-02,05 soc CHEM 420 01 #0649 • Add prerequisiteo "CHEM 224 or CHEM 236 and CHEM 224L or 2J6L" THEO COTH 104 01 #}502 • Add restriction: "Freshmen only" THEO COTH 104 02 #4190 . Add restriction: "Freshmen only" THEO COTH !05 01 #}504 . Add restriction: "Freshmen only" THEO COTH 105 02 #4127 • Add restriction: "Freshmen only" THEO COTH 412 01 #}393 • Remove pre~requisite; COTH 101 or 104 or 201 or 204 is recommended THEO ECON 115 01 #}}72. Add restriction: "Freshmen only" THEO ECON 115 02 #!700 . Add restriciton: "Freshmen only" THEO ECON 115 OJ #4204 • Add restriction: ~'Freshmen only" THEO ECON 224 01 #}051 • Add restriciton: "College of Business students only through 3rd period; then open to all THEO THEO  224 01 #!907. Add restriction: "College of Business students only through Jrd periOO; then open to all 225 02 #2074 . Change time to' M W 1260-02,05 508 01 #2144 . Change time to' M W 02,20-0},}5 201L all sections Remove prerequisite 354L 01 #4484 . Change time to' T 02A5-05,45 354L 02 #4486 . Change time to' H 02,45-05,45 357L 01 #4488 . Change time to' T 02,45-05,45 357L 02 #4490 -Change time to' H 02,45·05,45 476 01 #4025 . Add prerequisiteo "EE 347 or MSE 225" 370-478 Change restriction to: "Majors only through 2nd period; BA students only 3rd period; then open to all" 142 01 #}101 -Add' "GEOS 142L corequisite" 242 01 #!834 -Remove prerequisite }42 01 #1072 -Add restriction: "Majors only through Jrd period; then open to all'~ and GOVf 342T corequisite 501 01 #!506 . Add restriction: "Graduate students only" 204 01 #4062 -Change to "Permission Required" 227 01 #3804 . Change to "Permission Required" 242 01 #}981 -Change to "Permission Required" 242 02 #4616. Change to "Permission Required" JOOC 01 #4575 • Change to "Permission Required" 329 01 #}596 • Change to "Permission Required" 329 02 #456} • Change to "Permission Required" 346 01 #}563 -Change to "Permission Required" 355 01 #460} • Change to "Permission Required" 360 01 #4712 • Change to ''Permission Required" 412C 01 #4703 . Change to "Permission Required" 468E 01 #4574 -Change to "Permissiotl Required" 475Z 01 #4702 . Change to "Permission Required" 477 01 #4586 . Change to "Permission Required" 493F 01 #4700 -Change to "Permission Required" 499 01 #4625 • Change to "Permission Required" 430 01 #4257 • Change pre~requisite to: "GOVT 141 or 341 or permission of instructor" 513 01 #4274 • Change cloys/time to' TH OU5-02,JO 111 01 #()60} . Add restriction: "Freshmen only" 394 01 #4601 -Add restriction:. "Majors only" 628 01 #4}14­Change day to' H 07,30-09,30 P.M. Class 636 01 #43U · Change days to' M J2,00.02,JO 675 01 #2}84 . Add restriciton: "Graduate students only"; change day to: H 02:45~05:00 466 01 #]912 • Change time to' MW OJ,50-05,o5 566 02 #}911 -Change time to' MW OJ,5o.o5,o5 370. 495 Change restriction to: "Majors only through Znd period, BA students only through 3rd period; then open to all" 214 01 #4523 • Change pre~requisice to: "MA11-1 120 or MATH 126" 222 02 #3327 • Change time to' MWF OIJ5-02,05 608 01 #()598 -Change time to' MWF 09,05·09,55 552E 01 #294} -Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" 56 IE 01 #2634 . Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" 563E 01 #2951 . Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" 604 01 #4427 . . Change restriction to: "MBA or MBAA students only" 606 01 #4428 -Change restriction m: "MBA or MBAA students only" 606 02 #4429 • Change restriction to: "MBA or MBAA students only" 622E 01 #}114 • Add restrktion: "Executive MBA students only" 627 01 #()290 . Change pre~requisite to: "MBA 622" 645 01 #4674 • Change restriction to: "MBA or MBAA students only" 646 01 #2084 • Change restriction to: "MBA or MBAA students only" 671 01 #4435 • Change restriction to: "MBA or MBAA students only" 672 01 #2007 -Course is llQ1 permission required 675E 01 #}273 -Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" 68JE 01 #!732 • Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" 685E 01 #()}77 . Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" 226 01 #()701 • Add pre/corequisiteo "MATH226" 445 01 #4443 -Remove ME 340 as a pre-requisite 498C 01 #4446 . Change restriction to' "ME 439 & AERO/ME 334 646 01 #4719 . Change day to' H 07JO..Q9,}0 P.M. Class 486 01 #!625 • Change time to' TH JJ,OO.J2,J5 225 01 #!839 -Add pre/corequisite: "(CHEM 115 or 117 or 125 or 195) and (CHEM 116 or 118 or 126 or 196) 235 01 #4335 • Course is llQl permission required 697 01 #4724 . Add restriction: "Graduate students only" 701B 01 #2444 . Add restriction: "Graduate students only" 250 01 #1410 . Change time to' TH 09J0-10,45 333 01 #()653 • Add prerequisiteo "PHYS 212 or EG 120" 201 01 #4716 -Change time to' MWF 02,20-0HO }62 01 #4631 . Add pre·requisiteo EASC 14 or GEOS 141 or SC 141 122 01 #!734­Add restriction: "Freshmen only'' 122 02 #!461. Add restriction: "Freshmen only" 232 01 #()280 -Change time to' MWF 10o 10-11 ,oo 51} 01 #1}80 • Change time to' MW I U5-J2,JO 201 01 #()209 • Change time to' TH 09,30-10,45 }91 OJ #()596 • Delete pre-requisite (6 credit hours THEO); Add: "Does not satisfy university Theology requirement" 392 01 #2710 • Delete pre-requisite (6 c.redit hours THEO); Add: "Does not satisfy university Theology requirement" 455B 01 #!776 • Change to 3 credit hours 582 01 #2682 • Change days/time to' M OU5-02,30 586 01 #()265 • Change to 3 cr. hrs. & change doys to: TH 09:30-10:45 593C 01 #()237 . Add restriction' "M DIV students only" 595B 01 #!534 . Change days/time to: W 09:45-11 :00; and add restriction: "M DIV students only" 596 01 #2933 -Add restriction: "M DIV students only" 623 01 #4546 -Change tide to: "Pe1tristic Sem: Gregory the Great" 643 01 #()314 • Change day to' H 09,}0-12'00  
~CANCELLED PHYS 222L 02 2582 ARHI 496 01 3654 COTH 436 01 4197 ENGL 422 01 1022 AMST 591 01 #4577 RLST 350 40 9540 ARST IJ4S 01 0146 COTH 440 01 4696 ENGL 426F 01 4230 GOVT 34JT 01 #()119 soc 232 01 0280 ARST !50K 01 1154 CSE 322L 01 4110 ENGL 43JB 01 3784 LAW 6!9B 01 #4780 THEO 243 01 !51} ARST 212S 01 2356 CSE 411 01 4471 ENGL 440 01 4233 LAW 662 01 #}365 ~SECTIONSM ARST 232S 01 2361 ECON 421 01 0538 ENGL 455B 01 4234 PSY 398 20 #2498 OF 1.;QQ fM, ~ ARST 242S 01 1250 ECON 422 01 4209 ENGL 461C 01 4236 PSY 425 01 #()212 ACCf 231 05 2162 ARST 246S 01 3464 ECON 430 01 1383 ENGL 462B 01 4237 PSY 498 20 #()}30 ACCf 372 OJ 1447 ARST 292S 01 3346 ECON 434 01 3597 ENGL 465 OI 2096 PSY 599 20 #25}8 ACCf }80 04 1676 ARST 326S 01 0509 ECON 450 01 3745 ENGL 513B 01 4220 PSY 619 01 #455} ACCf 473 02 0490 BA }62 01 2693 ECON 487 01 4779 ENGL 522A 01 4218 PSY 694 20 #!015 ACCf 477 01 0754 BA 391 01 0393 ECON 498 01 1768 FIN 360 05 3250 PSY 696 20 #()338 ACCf 479 01 }081 BA 391 02 1296 EE 242L 04 1929 FIN }60 07 4418 PSY 699 20 #()675 ACCf 480 o:z. 2994 BA 391 OJ 1690 EE 354L 03 4485 FIN 361 02 0824 PSY 700 20 #!209 ACCf 485 01 3399 BA 464 01 3111 EE 498G 01 4478 FIN 361 03 2786 ~TIJAI:MLL AERO 441L 01 2859 BA 490 01 0677 ENGL 201B 01 4215 FIN 361 05 0720 ~.u1.;QQ E,M, AFAM 204 01 4695 BA 490 03 1994 ENGL 204 01 4063 FIN }61 07 3096 !.lLl2m AFAM 384A 01 3765 BA 490 04 2439 ENGL JOOC 01 4223 FIN 370 OJ 0840 ACCf 380 04 1676 AFAM }89 01 3935 BIOS 344L 02 1305 ENGL JOI 01 0648 FIN 470 01 0790 ANTH }28 01 }362 AFAM 419Z 01 4698 BIOS 40'1L 01 0375 ENGL JOIC 01 0966 FIN 473 OJ 0215 BA 490 OJ 1994 AFAM 420 01 4620 BIOS 411L 01 2234 ENGL }12 01 0808 FIN 475 01 2739 CSE 322L 01 4110 AFAM 451 01 3873 BIOS 411L OJ 2308 ENGL J14B 01 3756 FIN 476 01 3407 ENGL 415 01 4721 AFAM 454 01 3536 BIOS 412L 01 2613 ENGL J16F 01 4124 FIN 478 01 !884 ENGL 462B 01 4237 AFAM 479 01 4084 BIOS 412L 02 0587 ENGL 317C 01 3726 GE 31} 01 1443 FIN 360 07 4418 AMST 493 01 4161 CAPP 316 01 276} ENGL 319B 01 4224 GE 364 01 4148 FIN 361 02 0824 ANTH 328 01 3362 CE 356 01 0589 ENGL 319E 01 4216 GE 564 01 4149 FIN 361 03 2786 ANTH 329 01 4164 CHEM 118L 07 2280 ENGL 325 01 1021 GOVT J16F 01 4578 GE 313 01 1443 ANTH 329 02 4165 CHEM 334L 01 0492 ENGL 340 01 1531 GOVT 342T 03 1194 HIST 309 01 }535 ANTH 336 01 4166 CHEM 334L 02 1556 ENGL J7JE 01 4217 GOVT 342T 04 0970 HIST 440A 01 4310 ANTH 389 01 3934 CLAS 423 01 3725 ENGL J79C 01 4225 GOVT 343T 04 2197 MARK 381 01 1722 ANTH 454 Ol 3454 CLAS 442 OJ 1817 ENGL 414B 01 471J GOVT 404 01 0981 MBA 608 01 4672 ARCH 598B 01 0420 COTH 211 01 4192 ENGL 415 01 4721 GOVT 407 01 1}90 PHIL 241 01 1472 ARCH 598F 01 0269 COTH 41J 01 1014 ENGL 416) 01 4634 GOVT 43J 01 4258 PHIL Z42 01 0717 ARHl 169 01 }!50 COTH 435 01 4196 ENGL 417 01 4245 GSC 49JF 01 4700  GSC 498 01 1240 LAW 695 06 3201 PHIL 241 02 2725 ROSP 329 01 2919 HlST ll6T OJ 3246 LLRO 5}} 01 4375 PHIL 242 01 0717 ROSP 432 01 4383 HIST 309 01 3535 MARK 374 01 05}3 PHIL 247 01 4338 ROSP 499 01 1701 HlST 309A 01 4299 MARK 374 02 0650 PHIL 248 01 4030 soc 220 01 2031 HIST 327A 01 4302 MARK 381 01 1722 PHIL 250 01 }551 soc 232 01 0280 HIST 357A 01 4288 MARK 492 01 }544 PHIL 257 01 4031 soc 234 01 3556 HIST }59 01 4306 MARK 495 01 3828 PHIL 261 04 4725 soc 320 01 4393 HlST J59A 01 4307 MATH 324 01 }285 PHIL 264 01 2181 soc 346 01 3562 HIST J65A 01 4290 MATH 336 02 }148 PHYS 222L 02 2582 soc 379 01 4395 HIST 391 01 19}8 MBA 600 01 0080 PHYS 222L 04 1524 soc 415 01 }659 HIST 396 01 1427 MBA 606 01 4428 PHYS 222L 05 2730 soc 419 01 3857 HIST 399 01 3356 MBA 608 01 4672 PHYS 510L 01 4528 soc 421 01 }308 HIST 40} 01 4289 MBA 624 01 0876 PSY 342L 01 1981 soc 424 01 4729 HIST 415A 01 4308 MBA 625 01 3406 PSY 375 01 4360 soc 430 01 4566 HIST 440A 01 4}10 MBA 637 01 4431 PSY 403 01 4362 sn1 250 01 4681 HIST 454 01 3537 ME 348 01 2788 PSY 404 01 436} THEO 235 01 1755 HlST 454A 01 4311 MGT 499 01 4425 PSY 405 01 4364 THEO 235 02 2106 HIST 460 01 1025 Ml }09 01 3534 PSY 441 01 4365 THEO 243 01 !51} HIST 460A 01 4312 Ml 403 OJ 4594 PSY 452 01 1130 THEO 24} 02 4401 HIST 48JA 01 4295 Ml 433 01 3785 PSY 456 01 3044 THEO 252 01 078} HIST 489 01 4296 MSA 546 01 44}8 RLST 21} 20 9520 THEO 254 01 1118 HIST 699 01 1122 MSA 547 01 1815 RLST 21} 22 9522 THEO 262 01 0786 liPS 49} 01 4562 MUS 220 01 }037 RLST 240 24 9524 THEO 265 01 0214 liPS 507 01 3422 MUS 220 02 0899 RLST 240 26 9526 THEO 267 01 4403 LAW 605 01 2364 MUS 220 03 3252 RLST 251 32 95}2 THEO 268 01 4405 LAW 631F 01 0555 MUS 220 04 4138 RLST 261 }6 9536 THEO 290 01 4406 LAW 676A 01 2673 MUS 225 01 0278 RLST 306 38 9538 THEO 396 01 1519 LAW 685 01 0307 MUS 226 01 0032 RLST 350 40 9540 THEO 400 01 4746 LAW 695 01 1449 NSCI 412 01 3192 RLST 351 42' 9542 THTR 276 53 9753 LAW 695 02 1668 PHIL 203 01 11}1 ROFR 499 01 0390 THTR 377 58 9758 LAW 695 03 1459 PHIL 235 01 4335 ROSP 103 04 1458 THTR 410 59 9759 LAW 695 04 1675 PHIL 239 01 1464 ROSP 231 04 2222 LAW 695 05 18}1 PHIL 241 01 1472 ROSP 2}6 01 4382  

page 14 The Observer Thursday, November 19, 1992 
Temple fires Berndt 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) Temple University officially ousted coach Jerry Berndt Wednesday, just before the end of his fourth year in a five-year contract. 
The firing is effective after the game Saturday against Rutgers, Temple president Peter Liacouras said in a statement. 
Berndt could not be imme­diately reached for comment. 
Liacouras said the university would pay for Berndt's final year from private donations, not public funds. He did not say when a successor would be named. 
Liacouras said the decision was made in a meeting Wednesday night with athletic director Charles Theokas and executive vice president Jack Freeman. 
"A change in personnel is always painful for everyone involved," Liacouras said. "It is even more difficult when the person is an honorable and decent as Jerry Berndt." 
Temple officials allowed rumors to grow over the past week as school officials con­firmed Clemson assistant Ron Dickerson had interviewed for the job. 
And in Miami last weekend, the Owls had to deal with distracting rumors about their coach's job instead of a game-of-a­lifetime test against the top­ranked Hurricanes. Temple lost 48-0. 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
attention away from himself and prefers to concentrate on the team aspect of hockey. 
However, as much as he would like to remain out of the spotlight, Ling might have a difficult time doing it if he con­tinues to produce points at his pace. The Irish look forward to Ling's production and hope that his contributions continue throughout the next four years. 


PRICES FOR STAY-NOT PER NIGHT/ SOUTH PADRE ISLAND "om$fQ9
5 anct 7 NIGHTS 
DAYTONA BEACH "Dml 68 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH BJ
ftom$ 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT tme.Sf29 
2, S AND 7 NIGHTS 
MUSTANG ISLAND I PORT ARANSAS ffD,,$fJ2 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND "om$f2f 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
,,0
FORT LAUDERDALE m$f46 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
12th Annual Party! 

TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
1·800·321·591 1 

Oklahoma football players hold meeting 
NORMAN, Okla. (AP) -The Oklahoma football team did not hold a scheduled practice Wednesday as players aired grievances to the coaching staff in a meeting. 
The meeting was attended by a majority of the team and several coaches, including head coach Gary Gibbs. They met for at least two hours. 
Gibbs was not immediately available for comment. It was 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
expected he would meet later Wednesday with the media or release a statement. 
There has been speculation that some players are unhappy that Steve Collins did not start at quarterback last weekend in a 15-15 tie against Oklahoma State. 
Collins had played the previ­ous two games in place of Cale Gundy, who was injured, and the Sooners had looked espe­
set the: record for 
··. ·.· l p.m. in Angela eoltnnmrnty· members are eollectea to benefit the homeless 
' . : •.: . : ..:·: :.f~ . .,,:.,.,,. 

Ctans~laf'l... l'thlet.49S will Mt have a.. meeting this · ··· .···••· .· ·· ···..·.·• are invited to attend the service at 7:30 p.m. at Sacred Heart 
questions. caUE.D. at 283*1276. 
~~~3o:* W, ~ ~ 
COMMUNICATION L---__,, L 
RecSports Turkey Shoot results are m. The first place team 
&THEATRE 

comprised of Shelia Castilla. Neil Chapman. John Plunkett and 
P R E S E N T S 
Sue Toth finished with a total of187 points. 
lheatre

Basketball "Fast Break" packages are still available to faculty and students at $60.00. The package includes the 
GroHesco 
Evansville, Indiana, La Salle, Duke, Kentucky and Marquette 
IN THEIR ZANY
games. Call the ticket office at 239·7356 for more information. 
COMEDY 
Student bowl game tickets will be on sale December 9-11 from 9 a.m.· 5 p.m. at the JACC Gate 10 ticket windows. Notre Dame's opponent will be announced on December 6 and at that time the bowl and ticket prices will be announced. 
Delivery Drivers Wanted 
•Must have own car 
Call 2BB...J320...Ask for John or Joe 
Washin tonHall --­
Logan Volunteers 
•Bowling on Friday, Van pick-up 3:45 at PW circle 
•Dance on Friday, At Logan Center 7 p.m. 
•Saturday Rec, 10 a.m.-12 p.m., Demonstration by Pom-Pom team 
.-~--------------------------------------, 
Logan Center 
Angela 


that had been brewing for sev­eral weeks. 
"I .think a lot of people don't believe the right things are being done for us to win," lineman Joe Correia said after Gundy left. 

He said he and others were upset that Collins did not play against Oklahoma State. He said Gundy at one point during the OSU game asked coaches to insert Collins because he had hurt his leg. 
"I just don't understand it unless it's a personal vendetta against Steve," Correia said. 
He added later, "We need to win at all costs. They (the coaches) were saying 'we want the best players on the field at all times and that's our job to do that.' It's a contradiction to me. If you go back and watch the Oklahoma State film ... Cale will tell you himself that he wasn't the best player for that situation." 

Linebacker Reggie Barnes, who like Gundy, is a captain, said "the things that were said were said for the betterment of this football team, not to cause any heartache or problems." 
cially impressive in beating Missouri 51-17. 
Most players refused to comment as they left the meeting, although those who did comment said it had nothing to do with the quarterbacks. 
Gundy bolted through re­porters and said, "There's no problems, no problems at all." 
Later, Gundy returned and said the meeting had nothing to dq with any controversy involv­
ing him and Collins. 
"Steve and I have probably become better friends than anybody on this team," Gundy said. "We're not walking out. We're not going to quit as a team. We just called a meeting so we could talk as a team with all the coaches and all the play­ers together. We've been doing all of our talking on our own, by ourselves, with certain coaches and certain players, but not as a team." 
Directing his comments at the media, Gundy said, "Y'all people don't try to ruin this team. We've got a great team here and we've got a lot of fam­ily." 
At least one player said the meeting resulted from feelings 
RESERVED SEATS: $7 STrDE\T &SE\IOR CITIZE\ DISCOl"'iTS ARE .11".1ILABLE WED .. THL"RS. A~D 5[\ TICKETS ARE A\"A!LABLE AT THE LA FO~mE TICKET OFFICE. MasterCard and \"isa orders call: 139·8128 
wed  nov 18  8:10pm  
thurs  nov 19  8:10pm  
fri  nov 20  8:10pm  
sat  nov 21  8:10pm  
sun  nov 22  3:10pm  


Logan center is on corner of Eddy & Angela­down road from JACC Questions? Allie X3872 Juliette X482S 

Thursday, November 19, 1992 The Observer page 15 
Indiana win highlights first night of preseason NIT 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)­Indiana ran its motion offense but the easiest points came when the Hoosiers were stand­ing still. 
Greg Graham scored 22 points Wednesday night and No. 4 Indiana used some deadly free throw shooting for a 103­80 victory over Murray State in the first round of the preseason NIT. 
"I guess we concentrate more on free throws," Graham said. "I mean ... free throws are free throws. That's whay they call them free throws." 
The Hoosiers. (1-0) took a 53­36 lead at halftime and led by as many as 27 points as the Racers {0-1} repeatedly sent Indiana to the foul line. The Hoosiers hit 37 of 42 attempts, including 12 of 13 by Graham. Murray State made 15 of 21 free throws. 
"The main thing is to con­centrate," Graham said. "Free throws are really going to be important for us, because those are easy points. You're not go­ing to get any easier points than free throws." 
The victory sent Indiana into the second round of the tour-
R E 

CD CD 
$1011 $911 


CD CD 
$1011 $1011 
r-----------------------~,
HOURS: TRACED : 

1631 Edison Rd. 
277-8338 

nament Friday night at home against No. 17 Tulane, a 70-54 first-round winner over Wagner on Wednesday night. 
Calbert Cheaney and Alan Henderson each had 13 points for the Hoosiers, who have four starters back from last year's Final Four team, while Chris Reynolds and Damon Bailey each scored 12. 
Florida St. 89, Siena 80 TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -Siena coach Mike Deane found out firsthand what he missed when Bobby Sura chose to attend Florida State a year ago. 
"It's the first time I've been in a gym with a guy I recruited and lived to hate it," Deane said Wednesday night after watching Sura score 24 points to spark No. 9 Florida State. 
''I'm calling his mother tonight, his uncle too," teased Deane, who said Sura, of Wilkes Barre, Pa., made the right decision to play in the basketball-rich Atlantic Coast Conference. "He belongs at this level." 
Sura and Sam Cassell, who also had 24 points, ignited an 11-2 breakaway to start the 
RECORDS  I  
$Z22 orr fill  CDs  I I I I  
I  
Ho Limit  I  
I  Excludes Sale Items, Singles, Used & Imports C:oupon Expires: 11/15/91  I I  

L------------------------~ 

Greg Graham second half that pushed Florida State to a 52-37 lead and Siena then couldn't get closer than eight points. 
"With guards like that, you go to them because they can answer," Florida State coach Pat Kennedy said. "They're both just great guards." 
Cassell had nine assists filling in for Charlie Ward at point guard for the Seminoles (1-0), who remain at home for a Friday night quarterfinal game against Iowa State. Florida State hit 19 of 26 shots in the second half and shot 60 percent. The 6-foot-5 Sura, last year's conference rookie of the year, made eight of 11 shots, including all four of Florida State's 3-pointers. 
Iowa St. 84, lndianaSt. 69 
AMES, Iowa (AP) -Julius Michalik scored a career-high 24 points and helped No. 19 Iowa State pull away in the sec­ond half for the victory over Indiana State in preseason action. 
Iowa State won its fourth straight season opener and will play at No. 9 Florida State in a second-round game on Friday night. 
Justus Thigpen added 19 points for Iowa State, which was ragged at times despite returning all five starters from last season's 21-13 team. The Cyclones were leading only 37­34 early in the second half when Michalik got them going. 
The 6-foot-11 sophomore scored on a drive to start a 21-4 run that stretched the lead to 58-38. Michalik, whose previ­ous best was 23 points against Loyola-Chicago last year, had 11 points in that seven-minute stretch and also handed out two assists. 
It was never in doubt after that. The Cyclones began run-
CD 
$1011 
ning their fast break with abandon and built the lead to 78-51 on Howard Eaton's three­point play with 6:06 to play. 
Ron Bayless scored 13 points for Iowa State, which shot 61.5 percent in the second half, while Eaton and reserve Morgan Wheat finished with 12 points each. 
Tulane 70, Wagner 54 

NEW ORLEANS -Tulane had the opening-night jitters, but shook them off to beat Wagner Wednesday night in opening round action. 
"For the first time out of the box, I think the kids did a good job," Tulane coach Perry Clark said. "The kids came out well. They were a little flustered at times, but it was a good win for us. They (Wagner) are going to win 20 games this year. This win is going to help our power rating later in the season." 
Anthony Reed scored 20 points -six in the first three minutes of the game -as No. 17 Tulane rolled early over persistent Wagner. 
Tulane will face Indiana in the second round Friday night at Bloomington, Ind. 
Valvano set to return 
(AP)-Five months after being diagnosed with cancer, Jim Valvano returns to work Friday night to broadcast the quarterfinals of the preseason NIT on ESPN. 
"I feel pretty strong and I'm looking forward to getting back to work," Valvano said in a telephone conference call Wednesday. "When my eyes open each day and my feet touch the floor, I thank God for the day I have and say 'let's go get 
Valvano takes treatment for his cancer every two weeks as an outpatient at Duke University Medical Center and every six weeks he spends two or three days in the hospital where he is treated with chemotherapy. "I fight every day and it's an every day battle," he said. "Every day you get up and thank God for the day you have." 
Last June, the ex-North Carolina State coach was diagnosed with metastatic adenocarcinoma, a cancer that can start in an organ or in glands and spread throughout the body. "When I found out, my reaction was not anger, it was incredulity," Valvano said. 
"My reaction was, 'Run that test again.' It was incomprehensible, followed by helplessness. I was no longer in control. I had always felt in control over my destiny and dignity. Being a cancer patient, you don't feel that control." 
Valvano said he has pain in his lower back, hips and knees caused by the cancer. The chemotherapy treatment 
causes numbness in his hands and feet and ringing in his ears. He has not experienced the baldness that usually occurs. 
"I have the toughest hair in the country," he said. "It's a medical miracle." 

-

.. 

page 16 The Observer Thursday, November 19, 1992 
Tovar has no regrets about OSU 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) ­Over his career at Ohio State, Steve Tovar has been force-fed the headlines about Michigan's success, Michigan's champi­onships, Michigan's bowl trips. 
Still, he admits to no regrets about a change of heart four years ago the caused him to sign with Ohio State instead of Michigan. 
As he gets ready to face a Michigan team for the final time Saturday, Tovar is hoping to gain a small portion of vindi­cation for the decision he made while a senior in high school. 
"Pride is the biggest thing," he said. 
His decision has cost him four Big Ten Conference championship rings and three trips to the Rose Bowl. Yet the two-time, first-team all-confer­ence linebacker has no regrets, at least none that he'll admit to publicly. 
"I think there's a lot of in­tangible things that rings or ti­tles can't describe," Tovar said. 
When the sixth-ranked Wolverines play the 17th­ranked Buckeyes, Tovar will again be staring at everything he missed. He has yet to play on a team that has beaten the Wolverines, who have won the last four meetings. He has yet to be on a winning team in a bowl game. 
But the 6-foot-4, 240-pound 

Phonz 
continued from page 20 
"It (last season) helped a lot," Phonz commented. "I became accustomed to doing a lot of the things we are doing now. Defensively, we have to help each other out a lot, and we played that way last season (at Notre Dame)." 
The familiarity with the style of play in the NBA was rein­forced by his participation at the Nuggets' entire training camp. 
"I couldn't have done what I have without having gone through the entire training camp," Ellis said. 
Ellis was able to get this time in camp, which most rookies do not get due to contract disputes, because he and the Nuggets agreed to a five year deal worth over $12 million in the summer. Whereas the second pick in the draft Alonzo Mourning signed a week into the regular season, and Jimmy Jackson, the fourth pick, still has not signed with the Dallas Mavericks. 
One thing that has changed in Ellis' life is the location of his family. Since getting married after graduation, Ellis, his wife Jennifer and their
-daughter Alexis have moved to an apartment in Denver, where they are "house hunt­ing,"according to Ellis. 
Though individual success and a new family would have most high-paid athletes con­tent, the Nuggets' losing and his constant desire to improve have Phonz as determined as ever. 
"You can never be satisfied with the way you're playing, especially when your not win­ning," Ellis explained. 
Butkus Award candidate said he doesn't dwell on such things. 
"I chose a school based on the people I liked, not only the players but the coaches and the program that was heading in the right direction," said the Elyria native. ''I'll never resent not going to Michigan and com­ing here because I've had a lot of success and made a lot of friends. 
"I think I could've played at Michigan or another school. But this is where I'm happy and I wouldn't take it back for anything." 
Tovar has thrived at Ohio State. He is in his third straight year of leading Ohio State in tackles, with 113 so far. He also has nine tackles for losses, two sacks, has blocked two kicks and has forced two fumbles. 
His coach, John Cooper, calls him the best defensive player he has ever had during a 31­
r 
year coaching career. 
But always there has been the shadow of Michigan's ac­complishments and of what might have been. 
"When I was younger, I had a little resentment," he said. "As I got older, it's more of a pride factor. You just want to beat them after a while. It's not a revenge factor; I just flat-out want to win one." 
Both teams already know where they're headed for the holidays: Michigan to the Rose Bowl and Ohio State to the Florida Citrus Bowl. 
All year long, Tovar was aware of Michigan's status in the national rankings and or its succession of great players and great victories. 
"They were on ESPN every Saturday. (Running back Ty­rone) Wheatley this, Wheatley that. (Quarterback Elvis) Grbac this, and Grbac that. 
The Observer/John Rock 

Ellis, shown here against Indiana on Tuesday night, led the Nuggets in scori in the after 2 million dollar contract. 

KRAZE 
Now Open at Ironwood Plaza in South Bend Next to Martin's Supermarket 
Mon-Sat 9 a.m.-9 p.m. 
Sunday 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 
All Ite111s $1 or Less 
Kosa~r finally back in camp 
BEREA, Ohio (AP} ~ Bernie Kosar would need about six Kosar returned to practice weeks to heal, but it has at­with the Cleveland Browns on ready been nine weeks. Wednesday for the first time "He'll start out going since he broke his ankle in through drills and running September. some scout plays," Belichick 
Coach Bill Belichick, how-said. "He's been going through ever, is taking a wait-and-see rehab. Now he's ready to take attitude about how long it will the next step." be before Kosar can play, Be-Wednesday's practice was licbick has already said he will (:}osed to reporters, as usual. stick with Mike Tomczak as and Kosar said through team his starter for Sunday's game spokesman Kevin Byrne that at Minnesota. he w9uld prefer to wait until 
"l.can only go by w:PaJ I · 1'butsday before commenting see;·• Belichick sald. "You &nhowthe ankle felt. can't plan too far ahead on Should the Browns decide this. You don't know what the to activate him this week, they circumstances are going to created room on the roster by be." releasing quarterback Brad 
Kosar has been sidelined Goebel, who had been serving since Sept. 14, when his right as the backup to Mike ankle was broken as he was Tomczak in the absence of sacked by Miami linebacker Kosar and Todd Philcox. John Offerdahl. The injury oc-Pbilcox has not played curred in the second quarter, since Sept. 20, when he broke but Kosar remained in the his thumb in a win over the game and nearly rallied the Los Angeles Raiders. He was Browns to victory in the activated for last Sunday's closing minutes. game against San Diego but 
Cleveland lost 27-23 on saw no action. Mark Higgs' touchdown run Cleveland bas gone 0·2 with seven: seconds left. with Kosar, 1-0 with Philcox 
Doctors originally thought and 4~3 with Tomczak. 
Urban Plunge Drien ta tion 
november 22 (next Sunday) 
1:00 -6:00pm 
Hesburgh Library Ruditorium 
*This is required for all Urban Plunge participants 
_____w:_~ 
'"'=========================:Li 
"'=» Practically Speaking.....
•

"'=»
• 

"'=»
•

"'=»
•

"'=»
•

"'=»
•


"'=» All mustratecl Lectun
•

"'=» br
•

"'=» 
"'=»
•

"'=» 
"'=» • JOHN H. GORDON, E~D
• 
•

"'=» *Consullant NOVA (PBS} "'=»• * Consultant 2D/2D(ABC)
•

"'=»• * Consultant. Kennedy(HBC) "'=» * Advisor. Calilornia State Archives 
"'=»• [-----i
•
"'=»
• 

"'=» Monday, November 23 /(AB 
•

"'=» 7p.m. )_i .
• 
,qUOENTj
"'=»

• arroll Hall ~ ACTIVITIEs :
"'=» C 
B 0 A R 0 
•
"'=»
•

? $1 donation at the door. proceeds will go to the St. Jude Athletic Association 
Thursday, November 19, 1992 The Observer page 17 
Godfrey perfect choice as Irish swim C<?·Captain 
By ERIK JOHNSON Sports Writer 
The world of swimming is a wet and lonely one, especially at 6 A.M. on a snowy, windy, January morning. Many swimmers get tired of this sport, which involves swimming back and forth in a pool of chlorinated water and getting nowhere. after 6 or 7 years. 
One would think that after 16 years of competitive swimming, John Godfrey would have been ready to hang up his goggles years ago. He hasn't even thought of it. Godfrey states that he "liked it [swimming] all along." 
Godfrey's longest break in the last 16 years has been three months, and that occurred last semester. His hard 'work and love for the sport of swimming were contributing factors to Godfrey's being vot~d co­captain of this year's Notre Dame men's swimming team. 
Godfrey began swimming at the age of six. He really came into his own four years later, when he competed in the 10 and under age group. It was in this age group that Godfrey achieved times which put him into consideration for a national ranking. However, his time that year was not good enough to place him among the country's elite. As Godfrey aged, his swimming improved. At the age of 14, Godfrey achieved a national ranking of 13 in the 200 meter backstroke. 
When Godfrey at Notre Dame as a freshman recruit from Kentucky, he did not know what to expect from college swimming. Tired of the sport and plagued by injury, Godfrey still swam for the Irish. Swimming had to take a back­seat to academics. Schoolwork was Godfrey's main objective that year. He states, "My only real goal coming to Notre Dame was to do well in school. [I worked] hard to do the best that I could in swimming ... my main goal was to go to school." 
His 12 years of prior swim-
Remember the less fortunate during Thanksgiving. 
The Observer 

is searching for students who have experience working with Aldus Freehand, Adobe Illustrator, or QuarkXpress to work in the Ad Design Department. Please contact Kevin Hardman at 239-7471 if interested. 
Career opportunities at J.P. Morgan 
Interviews for Notre Dame seniors interested in Corporate Finance will be held in Chicago on Friday, January 8, 1993 
Please submit a cover letter and resume by November 20 to: Alice Richardson Fisher 60 Wall Street 
J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated New JVrk, NY 10260-0060 
JPMorgan 
J.P. Morgan is an equal opportunity employer 


John Godfrey 

ming, and a family history of successful swimmers would not let him neglect his swimming. Godfrey admits that the competition with his brothers helped him in swimming, but he never swims to beat their records or achievements. "Everyone is unique in their own respect," Godfrey states. "Their [his brothers'] glory , we didn't try to take it away." 
Being voted captain was a continuation of a family tradi­tion. One older brother cap­tained a Kentucky men's swimming team, and most re­cently, his brother Paul cap­tained the 1990-1991 Notre Dame team. Godfrey some­times asks them for advice in a difficult situation, but Godfrey has a style of leadership strictly his own. He does not yell to rally his troops, but rather God­frey wishes to lead merely by example. He explains, "I try to lead by example... [by] doing well in the workouts." 
The Irish co-captain feels fortunate just to be a part of possibly the most successful swimming class ever to swim for the University. The class of 1993 holds the majority of the Notre Dame swimming records. Godfrey thinks that no previous class has controlled the outcome of the meets like the current class. 
"During our four years, we've been leaders in the pool.They've [the other classes] had some swimmers better than we are, but not as many [swimmers] on our level," contends Godfrey. Godfrey is not only thankful for his swimming, but also for the ex­periences he has gained over the last four years. 
Swimmers are a group of people who stick together and form life-long bonds. He feels fortunate to have formed these bonds. "The friendships that swimmers have...it is one thing that I will have for the rest of my life, I will carry it with me," commented Godfrey. 
Godfrey, like almost all swimmers, has one goal left-the NCAA meet. Godfrey admits that he has been thinking about qualifying for the NCAAs since he entered college. 
Although he has not achieved this goal yet, when he looks back over his college career, Godfrey sees nothing but satis­faction. "It has been very much worth it, and hopefully I'll still have some good times to come." 
Bonds wins 2nd MVP in last three years 
NEW YORK (AP) -Barry Bonds' value as a free agent went up a little Wednesday after he was named the Na­tional League Most Valuable Player for the second time in three years. 
Bonds was an easy winner over Atlanta's Terry Pendleton, receiving 18 of a possible 24 first-place votes in balloting by the Baseball Writers Associa­tion of America. Bonds finished with 304 points, followed by Pendleton with 232 points, in­cluding four first-place votes, and San Diego's Gary Sheffield with two first-place votes and 204 points. 
'I think this is probably the most important one because 
this one I'm giving to my mom. She deserves it," Bonds said of his second MVP award. 
Bonds, the son of former ma­jor leaguer Bobby Bonds, led the Pittsburgh Pirates to their third straight NL East title by hitting .311 with 34 homers and 103 RBis. He also scored 109 runs and walked 127 times. 
The left fielder also won the MVP award in 1990 and was runner-up to Pendleton last year. He is the 1Oth player to win more than one NL MVP, joining such Hall of Famers as Stan Musial, Willie Mays and Ernie Banks. 
"I have a lot or reactions," Bonds said. "Last year, statisti­cally I thought I had a shot. I was very happy for Terry Pendleton. He's a good friend of mine." 
For winning MVP honors, Bonds gets a $250,000 bonus from the Pirates. That raised his 1992 income to $5.05 mil­lion, including bonuses. 
"I never set goals for my­self," Bonds said. "I prepare the same way every year. I would do the same things if you paid me one dollar." 
The difference this winter is that Bonds is preparing to play for a new team in 1993. The All-Star outfielder will be a looking for a contract that pays him at least $7 million per season, and it's very unlikely the Pirates can afford it. 
"I haven't closed the door to anything," Bonds said. "I don't really want to get involved in the negotiations. My agent will let me know what's going on." 
The teams most interested in Bonds are the New York Yankees and Atlanta Braves. During the NL playoffs, Bonds went house hunting in the At­lanta area. 
"Maybe by next week things will be a little clearer," said Dennis Gilbert, Bonds' agent. "We've talked to a lot of teams. We've narrowed it down to five teams." 
Gilbert declined to discuss any figures. 
Bonds has emerged as one of the best players in the major leagues because of his all­around abilities. 
"I want to do it again," Bonds said of the MVP award. ''I'm 28. I want to be the first to I I it four times." 
StartlineM 
CHECKING ACCOUNT 
• NO MONTHLY SERVICE FEES  • FREE FIRST ORDER OF  
When you write 8 checks or less  CHECKS Standard design  
•NO MINIMUM BALANCE  .PAYS INTEREST AT  
COMPETITIVE RATES  
• FREE INSTANT CASH  
ATMACCESS  

Come to expect the best. 

NORWEST BANKS 

South Bend • New Carlisle • Granger 
Norwest Bank Indiana, N.A. © 1991 Norwest Bank Indiana Member FDIC 

-~---------------­
page 18 The Observer Thursday, November 19, 1992 
Holmes, Snyder Saint Mary's Twin Towers 
By KILEY COBLE Sports Writer 
Belles basketball fans will be able to see their version of the Twin Towers perform on the court together this year. 
Last year, seniors Julie Snyder and Kim Holmes both played center, so they played different times on the court. This year, however, Holmes is playing lead forward and will play the same time Snyder does, who retained her center spot. 
Holmes has no problems in changing positions this year. "I played forward in high school and liked it, I'm happy just to play," noted Holmes. 
These two players are used to spending time together, as they 
Riley paces Irish sophomore class 
By BRIAN KUBICKI Sports Writer 
The women's cross-country team had big expectations for its 13 freshman last season. There was no question they were going to be good, the question was who would be the best. 
Sarah Riley in her sophomore year has emerged as the best in that talented class, and the best for the team this season as well. 
After running solidly as a freshman but placing consis­tently behind classmates Eva Flood and Stefanie Jensen, Ri­ley established herself early this season, pacing an Irish victory at the National Catholic Championships by taking the individual title. ­
"All of us are so close to­gether, I just happened to be the one {who led the team)," explained Riley of this season's leadership on the course. De­spite this close competition from her teammates, she was are both roommates and best friends. "People ask us if we get sick of each other," Snyder said. "We even have to guard each other during practice, but I never get sick of Kim." Holmes said that it is not a problem doing everything to­gether with Snyder, because the two are so laid back about things. 
The Twin Towers and the rest of the team did not look laid back yesterday afternoon, as they smashed Bethel College in a practice scrimmage, 105-50. Snyder and other teammates concede that the whole team this year contributes to the success the Belles are already showing. 
"Because there's no one star, 
the team's top finisher up to the end of the season. 
Riley finished off her season with impressive performances in her two last meets. Her first place finish in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference meet helped bring the team title back to Notre Dame. Then two weeks later at the NCAA District meet, she finished 16th, again pacing the Irish squad which finished in fourth place at the competitive meet. 
Fourth place was not enough for the women to earn a bid to the national meet, a feat which Riley said would have been good to accomplish for the ex­perience. "Next year we hope to be in the top fifteen in nationals and in the top ten my senior year," noted Riley. 
Those seem like lofty expec­tations for a program that was elevated to varsity status only five years ago, but Riley found joining the unestablished team attractive for that reason. "I wanted to make an impact and the team should show a lot less selflessness in play because of combos," said junior Molly Wheeler. 
The Belles have a challenging schedule this year. This week­end begins their season at the Lake Forest College Tourna­ment. "This will be a hard weekend," said Holmes. "All three teams are tough." She also noted that the game against the University of Chicago on January 19, a Divi­sion I school, will be tough. 
Right now, both Holmes and Snyder are just looking forward to their last year playing bas­ketball for Saint Mary's. "The whole team is really together this year," said Snyder. 
it seemed exciting to be a part of a developing program," said Riley. 
She brought with her to South Bend lots of talent and hefty credentials that hinted of the impact she would make. While running for Capolindo High School in Moraga, California, Riley garnered an individual conference title each of her four years and was the state champion her junior year. 
At Notre Dame though, Riley has focused her attention on the team. When asked about individual goals, she responded, "Cross country is a team sport. I really really want us to go to Nationals." 
Riley and her young team­mates have placed themselves on the verge of attaining that goal this season and next sea­son it seems almost certain. All that remains to be answered is whether Sarah Riley will lead them there or if yet another of the talented class of '95 will be the pace-setter. 

Seniors Friday Lunch 
12 2 
111USt be 21 
Wit~ 

The Oblerwr!Marguerlll Sc:hropp Senior forward Kim Holmes, shown here against Olivet last season, is one of the two Twin Towers for the Saint Mary's basketball team. 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS 
CATCH 'EM  
FRIDAY  
Irish Ice Hockey  ,  - 
vs Western Michigan  ~·~ ~  

JACC Ice Rink 
7:30 PM ~. 
~ 1" · -~?
\',I 
'1 )~ 
· · n wi h Bl 
MI[HAfl DOUGlAS 
A brutal murder. A brilliant killer. A cop who can't resist the dafl{{er. 
BASIC ~~~l ~~l 

S''tr.....u-••••.ltliiU....I-IIC.....-.~···••' 
CAROLCO' 


Notre Dame Communication & Theatre 
C:IDEffiR RT THE SDITE 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:15 ' 9:45 
7:00PM* -~ 1'. 
~ ' ~ 
~ 
Irish Swimming vs Ball State 
Rolfs Aquatic Center 4:00PM-Men 7:00 PM-Women 
Free Admission 


Today II.
II. 
Thursday, November 19, 1992 page 19
Brought to you by DOMINO'S 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
T\\ESE F!l.LL tv\OR~\~GS S\JR£. f>..RE PRill'{. T\\t. BRISK A.IR, Tl-\E. '5Mt.LL \:ft. Lt.A'IfS ... 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Flower 61 Stallone role container F B 1
64

1 Pants 
34 "The-Has · # · agent & Without a date Landed" 65 Pronou_n for . Franc;:o1se
10Box 
39 Rev1ew for show W d b f

14 Spouse's kin horses? 66 or s e ore 15 Dorothy's pet 42 Gantry or Fudd conse~t or
Aquanus

1&1n fine shape 
43 Place for the "I' ..
67 11 1

17 Purple shade blues m a -. 
18 Soprano Gluck 44 P.D.Q. 68 Cat's-paw 19 Dry 45 Sounds of 69 Symphonic­20 Movie about contentment poem pioneer 
rural 47 In conclusion fixer-uppers? 
49 City on 
DOWN

23 Undershirt, in Commence­
Leeds ment Bay 1 "It Must Be 24 Open to view 53 Term of respect -,"V. Carr hit 25 Professional 55 Museum 2 Actress Merkel 
niche curator's 3 Mess up one's 29 With it. in the memoirs? lines 40's 59-cone 
4 Kind of bean 30 Revival-meeting 60 Mrs. Burt 
5 Turn sharply 

cry Reynolds 6 Sticks around 7 Vacancy sign a Bank
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
conveniences: Abbr. 9 Pointy beard ...;.+=+==+=+=-! 10 Quick-witted -=+~~~ 11 Brown, in 
-t~[ffi··· 12 BurgosPolice-blotter
"" ~:;.+:,::t:-1 info ~~+-=-! 13 Change the color again 21 Chutzpah 22 Kick out ..;...111~~~ 25 Labyrinth ..;-:+;;:;.+;:;.+:::+.::1 26 Director Jannings 8:::-+:::~ 27 Pour -=...L:..:..l.:=...L:-1 21 Soprano Borkh 
BILL WATTERSON 
S\GI-UUL I Wt\'S 
'SO i<J\1~ A® 
FOOl\'51\. I n\0\JG\-\\ T\-105£ 
ll~'{S WO\ll\) 
lt.ST roR~. 


29Weight 32 "Heidi" locale 33 "Star Wars" 

program in D.C. 35 Darn it! 36General 
meaning 37 Loyal, in Ayr 38Makeout 40Physique 41 Imam's religion 46 Gertrude's son 48 Ethically neutral 49 Hint of color so Olfactory clue 51 Franck or 
Chavez 52 Auguries 53 Edison's Park 54Caliban's 
co-worker 56 Kind of tie or knife 
57 Early Christmas visitors 
sa Singing brothers in the 50's 
62 Dickens's pen name 
63 Frequently, in poesy 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
l ' 
DOMINO'S DAILY DEAL  
IT;~e $595 Thin Pizza Additional toppings 95¢ per pizza Valid at participating srores only. Not valid with any Call Now other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. OurND 271,0300 drivers carry less than $10. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. SMC 289,0033 © 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc.  

LECTURES 
Thursday 
4:15 p.m. Lecture. "The Current Situation in Argentina, "Roberto Frenkel, professor, University of Buenos Aires. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Sponsored by Kellog Institute. 
4:30 p.m. Mathematical' Colloquium, "Modular Symmetric Functionc and Representation Theory," Steve Doty, professor, Loyola University of Chicago. Room 226, Mathematics Building. Sponsored by Mathematics Department 
CAMPUS 
Thursday 
9 a.m. -4:30 p.m. "High School Women's Choir Festival." O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. Admission free. Sponsored by the Music Department, Saint Mary's College. 7:30p.m. The African Video Series," Africa in the World." Room 107. Montgomery Theater, LaFaortune Student Center. Admission free. Sponsored by African Student Association. 8:10p.m. "The Richest Dead Man Alive!" by Theatre Grottesco. Washington Hall. Sponsored by Communication and Theatre. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Roast Chicken Roast Top Sirloin of Beef Seafood Stir-Fry 
St. Mary's 
Chinese Bar American Style Lasagna Beef & Bean Chimichangas 


THINGS TO DO ...  
STAR TREK VI  
SPACEBALLS  Beam aboard for the ultimate  
Rick Moranis and John Candy blast off  adventure in the final chapter of  
to a spaced-out universe where the wackiest  the Star Trek saga to THE  
of characters will have you laughing out  UNDISCOVERED COUNTRY  
of your seat! Now showing on Thursday.  Friday and Saturday. Don't miss it!  

Movies are shown at 8 pm and 10:30 pm in Cushing Auditorium 

Sports 

page 20 Thursday, November 19, 1992 
JONATHAN 

Phonz still flashes that same winning smile 
JENSEN 

By MIKE SCRUDATO of the NBA's youngest teams. Along with 
Sports Editor Phonz, first-year coach Dan Issei starts 
third-year players Chris Jackson of LSU
Game Point 

Aside from the league he is playing in, and Marcus Liberty of Illinois, and 1------------------4 
· not a lot has changed about LaPhonso former Georgetown standouts Dikembe 
Long time fans rejoice: The Cowboys are on top 

As a youth, did you own two, maybe three, Tony Dorsett or Danny White jerseys? 
Do names like Billy Joe Dupree, Robert Newhouse, and Ed "Too Tall" Jones bring back the kid in you? 
If the answer is yes, then you may have been like me, one of the millions of followers of America's Team, the Dallas Cowboys. 
Well, I'm here to tell you that the magic is back. 
Yes, despite this weekend's loss to the resurgent Rams, the Cowboys are on top once again-the Cowboys are back in the saddle as America's team. 
Using the results of an informal survey of my dorm and after noticing the recent proliferation of Cowboy hats across campus, I have deducted that none other than the Cowboys are now Notre Dame's most popular football team. 
This is the way it was when we were growing up, when names like those mentioned earlier led the Cowpokes to stellar records every year, and even though they never won a Super Bowl in the eighties, they were the country's most popular team. 
However. after TO's retirement and the fall of the legendary Tom Landry, many fans went away from the grey and blue to follow more successful teams. 
For example, in Chicago, where I'm from, everyone and their brother hopped on the Bears' bandwagon and rode it all the way through their Super Bowl victory in 1986. But I was one of the few stronghearted fans who stuck with my team through thick and thin, through a 1-15 season, and I am now reaping the rewards. 
My hometown Bears and their coach are now an embarrassment to the foot­ball league they belong to, and the Cowboys are on top. In fact, I got to sit back and watch my team knock those Bears out of the playoffs in Chicago last season. 
So if you were one of those guys I talked about, wake up! Break out your Drew Pearson and Tony Hill posters, and enjoy the celebration. Don't feel guilty if you didn't stick with the team through the Gary Hogeboom and Steve Pelluer eras, you can still have fun rooting for the Emmitts, the Aikmans and the lrvins of the current team. 
Last weekend's loss could only be a turning point for Dallas, and possibly a springboard for the Cowboys' first ever 14-2 season. 
Think of it, with your help there may come a day when all of the oldtime Cowboy fans can join together and re­joice as the 'Pokes win a remarkable and unprecedented four straight Super Bowls. 
INSIDE SPORTS 

Ellis. Mutombo and Reggie Williams. Mutombo 
He is still a force on the court and he is had a strong rookie campaign in 1991­still the same personable guy with the 92, while Williams is a five-year veteran. same smile off the court. Last season, "We are a team full of young, talented people at Notre Dame saw that smile a players," Ellis noted. "We're all still lot last season as Ellis blossomed into the adjusting to a new system, and playing dominating player he was billed as with some new players. coming out of high school. "But, I think eventually it will work to 
Unfortunately, Ellis has not used that our advantage because we will be smile too often in post-game press playing together for a long time." conferences this season, as the Denver Despite the potential of the group, the Nuggets have lost five games in a row Nuggets are going to need some time to after opening the season with a double­mature. The young first-team is overtime win over San Antonio. supported by an equally green bench, 
Though Phonz, who starts at power which includes four second-year pros forward, is averaging 16.5 points and 8.2 and rookie Bryant Stith, who led Virginia rebounds per game, he still puts the past Notre Dame in last year's National team's success ahead of his own. Invitation Tournament title game. 
"I can't be satisfied with my own There are several factors that Ellis, performance if the team is noJ getting who was the draft's fifth overall pick, feels made his transition an easier one.
the W's," Ellis explained. "It has to be a 
One of which was playing in John
complete team effort." 
MacLeod's NBA-like system last season.
Ellis, however, is happy at Denver, one 
see PHONZ/page 16 

Ling starts American career off right 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Junior Hockey; I've gotten a He has begun to "move the Sports Writer League. As a couple of puck quicker and concentrate result of his breaks , " on making the easy play not 
The Notre Dame hockey success in the noted Ling. the spectacular one." team has compiled an 0-8-1 extremely Also, he Besides Ling, nine freshmen record in their return to the competitive attributes his have seen action for the frish. Central Collegiate Hockey league, he 'success 'to his He knows the team is Association. Although young became a hot 'line mates inexperienced, but he realizes and inexperienced, the Irish item for and a little bit the value of veteran players have played well against. c o I I e g e of luck. like Dave Bankoske and Matt some of the nation's elite recruiters. S c h a f e r Osiecki. "The team needs to teams during the first month Irish coach · describes break into the win column in of their season. Ric Schafer Ling "as a order to gain more 
The player who has shined sighted the' very heady confidence," realized Ling. for the Irish throughout the work of Jaime Ling hockey player "The high number of fresh­year is also one of their assistant coach Tom Carroll who 'sees the ice' extremely men allows us to bond youngest. His name is Jaime as the key to Ling's well." He stands just 5 feet-11 together and become easily Ling. matriculation at Notre Dame. inches and weighs 180 accepted into the minds of the 
Ling, a 19-year-old fresh­He called it, "a matchup of pounds. As a result of his size, upperclassmen," said Ling of man from Charlottetown, good grades, good hockey and Ling says he has to "use my an advantage to the Irish's Prince Edward Island in a keen interest by an out-head to create chances, and inexperience. "We get along Canada, leads the Irish in standing person." hope luck is on my side." great and we'll come together scoring and is currently tied Ling says he decided on Ling concedes major differ-and surprise some people." for the scoring lead in the Notre Dame "because of its ences between his previous Although just a freshman, CCHA, widely regarded as the academic excellence." hockey experience and the Ling is optimistic about his nation's premier conference. "The program was joining level of hockey in the CCHA. hockey future. "It would be He has 15 points overall and the CCHA which proved their His description of college nice to get drafted," noted 14 points in league play. commitment to better hockey is, "It's quicker, guys Ling, "But if it doesn't happen 
Last year, Ling played with hockey," said Ling, "I wanted are smarter, and I must I have an ND degree to fall the internationally renowned to get my foot in the door as create my own chances back on." College of Notre Dame hockey the program rises to national instead of relying on As for the remainder of the program in Wilcox, prominence." opponents mistakes." season, Ling will "do Saskatchewan. As a center­Thus far, Ling has scored 5 Like all great players have whatever it takes to help the man, he scored 35 goals and goals and contributed 10 as-the ability to do, Ling has team and to turn things handed out 56 assists for 91 sists. "I've just started sooner made adjustments in his around." Often he deflects points in the Saskatchewan than the rest of the team and playing style at Notre Dame. see HOCKEY/page 14 
Kramer battles back to lead Saint Mary's swimming 
By BETH REGAN Kramer was in therapy for six weeks student involvement and support for 
Sports Writer before she was able to begin practicing SMC sports. She also spends a lot of her 
again. She concentrated on keeping her time studying nursing. 
Ellen Kramer, a co-captain of the legs strong while slowly rebuilding the Kramer was a swim coach in Akron, Belles' swim team, is anticipating a great strength in her shoulders. Ohio for a recreational team this year, both personally and for the team as Although Kramer was unable to make summer. a whole. a strong comeback that year, she used "Swimming is an excellent sport 
Kramer's position as co-captain of the her sophomore year to rebuild. She had because it teaches you to develop a good swim team is not solely based on her a decent season and contributed to the mindset," noted Kramer. She also swimming ability, but also on her great Belles taking second place in their pointed out that the sport is very attitude and her determination, championship meet in spring of 1992. psychological. exhibited by her ability to make a strong Kramer's decision to swim in college comeback after an injury. was not unusual for many reasons. First Teammate Jen Gustafson, also a junior 
Currently a junior living in Holy Cross of all, she comes from a family of swim­from Holy Cross Hall, said that Kramer Hall, Kramer lettered in varsity mers. Her older sister swam for Notre "is inspirational in that she never gives swimming both her freshman and Dame. Kramer started swimming into her pain. She knows her limits and sophomore years. However, after competitively in the sixth grade for the works well within them." practicing for only one month with the YMCA. Ironically, she was unable to Belles during her freshman year, Kramer continue her swimming career in high "This year I feel a lot stronger, I'm developed a severe case of tendonitis in school because her school lacked a team. concentrating on being injury free," said both of her shoulders, which wiped out However, she ran cross country and did Kramer. She has already met her most of her season. triathlons. personal best in the 100 meter freestyle 
"I pushed it big time the first month When she is not swimming, Kramer is at the ND Relays on October 30th. She and ended up kicking a lot for the rest of involved with the Saint Mary's College is looking forward to "Little States" in the season," said Kramer. Athletic Council, which tries to create Indianapolis on Saturday. 







