---~--­

j
• 

i
Observer~ 1 
~1lJf~t~J~~~ 

WEDNESDAY , APRIL 8, 1992
VOL. XXIV NO. 128 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Faculty Senate delays vote of no confidence 
By STEPHEN ZAVESTOSKI Associate News Editor 
Following a discussion with University Provost Timothy O'Meara. the Faculty Senate concluded last night that it would postpone its vote of no confidence in University President Father Edward Malloy until April 22. 
The vote would have climaxed months of debate between fac­ulty and administration repre­sentatives over the issue of the faculty's role in the governance of the University. 
"The proposals that were made were insufficient," said Faculty Senate member Professor David O'Connor, "but at least the administration has been willing to start discussion after three years of no conver­sation." 
According to O'Connor, the discussion that took place be­tween Faculty Senate members 
New York (AP)-Front-runner Bill Clinton thumped Jerry Brown in the brutal New York primary Tuesday and added a Kansas landslide for good measure, tightening his grip on the Democratic presidential nomination despite persistent voter unease over his integrity. 
Campaign dropout Paul Tsongas made a surprise bid for second place in New York, but deferred a decision on whether to reenter the race. 
In a victory speech in New York. Clinton depicted himself as an apostle of change and said the night's results marked a "turning point" for America. He took aim at President Bush and reached out to the sup­porters of Tsongas and Jerry Brown, saying, "We want to be their campaign, too." 
Brown said he would press and O'Meara revealed that there is an opportunity for movement on the issue of fac­ulty governance. 
"We thought the discussion showed a good effort was un­derway to address our con­cerns," said O'Connor, "but there was still not much gen­eral satisfaction." 
He added that the two weeks before the April 22 vote will al­low for further progress, "but there will have to be a substan­tial, concrete proposal address­ing our concerns to cancel the vote." ' 
According to O'Connor, there was not a hesitancy on the part of the Faculty Senate members to make the vote. "I am sure there will be some members who will oppose a vote of no confidence," he said, "but for the most part I have found the majority of the faculty is in support of a vote of no confi­
see SENATE I page 4 
The Observer/Jon Novak 

Ready to jam 
Brian Muller and friends practice before playing at the "Crazy 8's" concert last night. The concert was held at Theodore's and admission was free. 


Clinton and Bush win big in primaries; Brown presses on 
ahead with his candidacy, but Clinton's showing -he led in Minnesota and Wisconsin, as well -prompted party insiders to suggest the Arkansas gover­nor had the race well in hand. 
"He is going to get the nomi­nation, absent some unfath­omable collapse," said Tom Donilon, who helped in the campaigns of Jimmy Carter in 1980 and Walter Mondale in 1984. 
If so, it would propel the 48­year-old Arkansas governor with the soft Southern accent into a fall campaign against President Bush in a time of ex­ceptional turmoil overseas and economic hardship at home. 
Tsongas was elated over his unexpected showing. 
"Let me say, the message survives and the message lives and the message has real power," he said. He said he would decide by later in the week whether to resume active 
campaigning.~ 
Clinton's victories were prob­ably enough to dampen any hopes Tsongas -or anyone else -harbored of a late run for the nomination. 
In New York, with 83 percent of the precincts counted, it was: 
Clinton: 325,564, 40 percent. 
Tsongas: 234,972, 29 percent. 
Brown: 207,926, 26 percent 
Clinton's Kansas victory was a landslide. He was gaining 51 percent of the vote, with Tsongas, Brown and an un­committed line on the ballot bunched far behind. 
Returns from Wisconsin gave him 38 percent, to 35 percent for Brown and 22 percent for Tsongas with 24 percent of the precincts tallied. 
Returns from 23 percent of the precincts in Minnesota showed Clinton leading Brown, 38 percent to 35 percent, with Tsongas at 22 percent. 
Bush won Republican pri­maries in Kansas, Wisconsin and Minnesota over the deflated conservative challenge of Patrick Buchanan. He was gaining nearly all the delegates at stake, and seemed on track for clinching a nominating ma­jority when Indiana, North Carolina and Washington D.C. hold primaries on May 5. 
Bush's victory margin ranged from 62 percent of the vote in Kansas to 69 percent in Minnesota and 78 percent in Wisconsin. 
Clinton entered the night's primaries with 1,101 delegates, more than half the 2,145 needed for the nomination. He was leading for 166 in New York, Wisconsin and Kansas. Minnesota's election was a popular vote and bestowed no delegates. Tsongas went in with 475 and led for 95 more. Brown had 166 and led for 100 more. 
Bush began the night with 876, including 100 from New York, where Buchanan was not on the ballot. The president led for 87 in Kansas, Minnesota and Wisconsin. Buchanan be­gan the night with 46 and led for 8. 
The president's campaign manager was pointing at Clinton already. "We're taking comfort from the fact that vot­ers in New York particularly do not seem to find any of the Democratic candidates particu­larly acceptable," said Fred Malek. 
see PRIMARIES I page 7 

HPC adresses charity and campus issues in meeting 
Ten honorary degrees awarded 
Special to The Observer Considered the leading in the 
Catholic Church of Ireland for 
more than 20 years, Daly has 
President Patricio Aylwin of frequently and forcefully called Chile and eight others will be for an end to the violence in accepting honorary degrees at Northern Ireland. Commencement Exercises May • Representative Wilhelmina 
17. according to public rela­Delco, speaker pro tempore of tions. the Texas House o 
Public relations also con­Representatives, will receive an firmed that President George honorary doctor of laws degree. Bush will be the principal A member of the Texas since speaker and the recipient of an 1975. Delco became the first honorary doctor of laws degree woman and second black at Commencement. representative to serve as 
A lawyer and politician, speaker pro tempore -the Aylwin was elected to lead a second highest position in the
Patricio Aylwin 

democratic Chile in Dec. 1989, assembly.
University of Chile. 
ending the 17 -year dictatorship Before her election to the
His leading role in the 

of Gen. Augusto Pinochet. Since House, Delco was active on the
Coalition of Parties for 
he took office in March 1990, Austin school board and cur­
Democracy led to the approval
the country has experienced rently serves on the House
of 54 constitutional reforms in 
steady economic growth due to Higher Education Committee. 
July 1989 and served as a 
higher wages, a drop in unem­•Father Carl Ebey, provincial 
springboard to his victory over 
ployment and increases in for­superior of the Indiana
two opponents in the presiden­
eign investment. Province of the Congregation o
tial elections later that year.
Aylwin, who will receive an Holy Cross, will receive an
Eights others will be receiving 

honorary doctor of laws degree, honorary doctor of laws degree. 
honorary degrees. 
began his career as a law A 1962 graduate of Notre
• Cardinal Cahal Daly, arch­

professor at the University of Dame, Ebey also holds a mas­
bishop of Armagh and primate
Chile, from which he graduated ter's degree from Holy Cross
of all Ireland, will receive an 
in 1943, and at the Catholic honorary doctor of laws degree. see DEGREES/ page 4 
By EMILY HAGE News Writer 
The newly elected members of the Hall Presidents' Council addressed charity and campus­oriented issues at their first official meeting yesterday. 
Breen Phillips rector Judy Hutchinson asked the council to support her at "Judy's Jam", a fundraiser for the Catholic Worker House on Tuesday, April 14 from 7 p.m. to 2 am at Theodore~. She announced that entrance to the event is free, but donations are welcome. 
Rita Francis, a Notre Dame chemistry and biochemistry graduate student, represented the Give Kids a Chance Coalition, asking for support for childcare for the children of graduate students, faculty and staff. 
Francis explained that childcare would help recruit 
graduate students, and thereby increase the number of small classes taught by graduate students. 
She added that a childcare facility would also alleviate scheduling problems caused by parental duties of faculty and could provide employment and education for undergraduate students. 
A representative from the Notre Dame Forest Campaign attended the meeting asking for monetary support from the HPC to plant 14,000 trees in the Black Water River State Forest, where the land has been depleted to 5 percent of its natural state. 
ND student Matt Bomberger represented the An Tostal committee at the meeting by previewing the scheduled events to come in the week of April 21-26. 
Fisher Hall co-presidents announced that the Fisher 
see HPC I page 4 page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Perspective of a broken little toe 
Have you heard 
coming? 
Step. Stomp-step. 
Stomp-step. 
My tale of woe began 
late April Fools night. In 
my dream, there were 
two intruders in the room 
that I had to scare away. I 
hurled my body from the 
top bunk across the room 
at them-and woke up 
when I hit the ground. 

"Angie," I stuttered. "I broke something." 
"Ohhh, no," Angie rolled over. "When did 
this happen?" 

"Well, I was having a dream..." 
The accident called for a 4 a.m. trip to the 
infirmary. About eight hours later, the X-rays 
from St. Joe Hospital completed the night­
mare. 
My baby toe was broken. 

A broken toe is a real drag, and from the 
experiences every Curious George has told 
me, it sounds as if many of us have suffered 
similarly. That little digit can cause a lot of 
pain, and I am inclined to complain. 
Crutches are the most abusive devices known to man. For two days-two long days-blistered hands, welted sides, and sore shoulders were mine. So what if my upper body was beginning to resemble Linda Hamilton's? Crutches made Saint Mary's miraculously triple in size. 
Suddenly, every building required a step up or a step down, or a whole flight. Getting up to answer the phone was painful. Keeping the splint dry in the shower required an act of God, and the help of a rubber glove. 
People's responses to my plight have been varied, from my super-sympathetic nurse, Wendy, to heartless beasts who scoff that it's "just a toe." 
Says Julie, "I broke my whole foot once and didn't walk like you." Good for you. Can I break it again and have a demonstration? 
Say sarcastic friends, "This little piggy ... " 
Ha, ha. 

Says Jill, "You don't have to limp-it doesn't hurt that bad." Who are you to tell me how I feel? Says my mom, "What if you had a head in­
jury, or broke your leg? Thank God it's not worse." 
The irony of my condition is that lately I've been observing students with handicaps and wondering how they got that way. Did they fall out of bed one morning, too? Or were they born with a disability? 
There is so much we able-bodied people take for granted. Sure, I've been whining about moving in slow motion, but my toe is only a temporary inconvenience. Imagine what it's like when the calluses from crutches only harden over the years, when the pain doesn't go away with Tylenol, and when the attention and sympathy wanes. 
The permanence accidents can have struck me at the hospital. I was offered a wheelchair twice, and it made me bristle. Everyone is of­fered a wheelchair, it is standard procedure to make you look like you belong there. 
Even in pain I had to say, "I'm okay, thank you anyway." Funny how a little toe can put big problems in the perspective they deserve. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Today's Staff 
Production  News  
Lisa Bourdon  Julie Barrett  
Stephanie Goldman  Sarah Doran  
Sports  Graphics  
Rich Szabo  Beth Duane  
Accent  Viewpoint  
Mara Divis  Joe Moody  
Amy Hardgrove  
Chrissy Prask  
lab Tech.  Systems  
Jake Peters  Harry Zembillas  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obs:;,ver is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Wednesday, April 8, 1992  
Pressure H L HIGH LOW Via Associated Press  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  0 ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  FORECAST: Partly sunny and cooler today with a high around 55. Thirty percent chance of showers in the evening. TEMPERATURES: City H L Anchorage 37 24 Athens 73 52 Bogota 72 52 Boston 56 41 Cairo BB 57 Chicago 66 42 Cleveland 59 4 7 Dallas 63 47 Denver 67 36 Detroit 62 48 Indianapolis 63 42 Jerusalem 73 55 London 54 43 Madrid 55 36 Minneapolis 64 37 Moscow 52 45 Nashville 67 49 New York 60 46 Paris 60 35 Philadelphia 60 41 Rome 6t 50 San Francisco 69 51 South Bend 6 2 4 3 Tokyo 59 52 Washington, D.C. 63 46  

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Soldiers enter prison taken by rebels 
• LIMA, Peru -The military intensified its crackdown on the leading opposition party and massed Tuesday to raid two prisons controlled by the hundreds of leftist rebels inside them. But President Alberto Fujimori pulled troops stationed at some news offices around the capital in a sign the censorship he imposed Sunday night might be lifted. Tanks and soldiers remained parked outside the shuttered Palace of Justice and Congress building to enforce Fujimori's suspension late Sunday of the legislature and the courts. 
NATIONAL 

Intruder re-ap~ears near Letterman 
OF INTEREST 
• 
The Dome 1992 yearbook distribution will be held in Room 108 of LaFortune today through Friday, April 10, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., and Monday, April 13 to Tuesday, April 14, from noon to 4 p.m. Student IDs required. 

• 
The campus-wide blood drive will be held in Theodore's today from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Walk-in ap­pointments accepted. 

• 
Right to Life of ND/SMC invites all students and faculty to an afternoon of prayer and adoration of the Blessed Sacrament. All fifteen decades of the Glorious, Sorrowful, and Joyous mysteries of the Rosary will be prayed, led by Fr. Edward O'Connor, CSC. 

• 
Graduate school preparation will be addressed by a faculty panel today at 4 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room in LaFortune. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 

• 
Suggestions for job searches through the use of employment agencies, personal contacts, job fairs, classified ads and other resources will be presented tonight from 6:30-7:30 p.m. in the Foster Room of LaFortune. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 


MARKET UPDATE 

police said. Ray, 39, of Crawford, Colo., has been arrested six times since 1988 for trespassing at Letterman's home. She was first arrested while driving his Porsche into New York City. At the time, she identified herself as Letterman's wife.She has spent about 10 months in prison and 14 months in a state mental institution after being convicted of trespassing at Letterman's home in 1989 and 1990. 
Illinois inmates may lose out 
• 
WASHINGTON -The House wants to keep federal education grants away from prison inmates, a move that would affect at least 2,000 Illinois criminals pursuing a college degree behind bars, officials say. Supporters of the ban say the money should go to law-abiding citizens. But opponents contend that an educated inmate is likely to avoid a life of crime upon release. "Ninety-five percent of the people in Illinois prisons are going to go home," he said. "Do you want a person who has not had the opportunity to improve himself do the same things that got him in trouble? 

• 
Santiago, Chile is the newly approved site for an NO Semester Abroad Program. The information session is tonight at 7 p.m. in 208 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 

• 
Game Night at Dalloway's Coffeehouse is tonight from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. Refreshments will be provided. 

• 
Women's Alliance will be meeting tonight at 9:30 


p.m. in the Center for Women's Alliance in LeMans Hall's "Vendoland." Please bring thoughts for the 1992 "For the Sisterhood" collection. Call Teresa at 284-5136 or Karen at 237-1985 for more information. 
• The Mexico Summer Service Project group will host a hospitality luncheon Thursday, April 9, from 11:30 
a.m. to 1:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
• 
The Fisher Hall Regatta is still accepting entry forms from all dorms, clubs and organizations. Absolute deadline is Thursday, April 9, at 7 p.m. in LaFortune's Montgomery Theater. Call 283-1902 for more informa­tion. 

• 
Spanish Club is sponsoring a dinner this Friday. Anyone interested, call Donna at x2914. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1908: President Roosevelt announced an injunction requiring equal railway accommodations for Negroes in the South. 

• 
In 1933: West Australia voted to secede from the British Commonwealth. 

• 
In 1946: The league of Nations assembled in Geneva for the last time. 

• 
In 1949: The Soviet Union used its v.eto power to block 


U.N. membership for South Korea. 
• 
In 1974: Hank Aaron of the Atlanta Braves hit his 715th career home run in a game against the Los Angeles Dodgers, breaking Babe Ruth's record. 

• 
In 1990: Ryan White died of AIDS in Indianapolis at age 18. 


GO 

Wednesday, April 8, 1992 The Observer 
page 3 

Bruszt: Political changes slow in Eastern Europe 
By JASON WILLIAMS News Writer 
Democracy and capitalism must not be forced on Eastern European countries, according to native Hungarian and Notre Dame faculty fellow Laszio Bruszt. 
In a lecture yesterday titled "The Great Transformation: Opinions on Capitalism and Democracy in Eastern Europe," Burszt was skeptical on the rate at which changes will occur in Eastern Europe 
"The transformation is not possible ... there will be many losers," he said. Burszt cited the current economic problems of many Eastern European countries as restraining the move towards transformation. However, he claimed these problems are not new to the world. 
"Eastern Europe has re­peated many of the same mis­takes Latin America made in the '70s," Burszt said. 
These present mistakes stem from the changing political orders since the fall of com­munist regimes, he continued. 
"The basic problem in 
Eastern Europe is the lack of strong (political) parties," he said. "The political structures now are different from 40 years ago." 
Burzst said the new and dif­ferent forms of government have stirred confusion in the Eastern European populus. 
"(The people of Eastern Europe) are disgusted with communism, yet they are also disgusted with the opposition parties," he said. 
Burszt claims this discontent of the political and economic systems results from a lack of diversity among the people. 
"The basic problem with the social structure of Eastern Europe is that the societies are too homogeneous," he said. 
Burszt also spoke about the desire for an efficient govern­mental system by the people of Eastern Europe, but explained that finding an appropriate form will take some time. 
He jokingly added, "Before 1989 capitalism and democracy were hopeless visions. After 1989 they are still hopeless vi­sions." 
Extremists play on fears 
PARIS (AP) -Advances by far-right parties aren't yet rousing worries of neo-Nazi takeovers, but they have placed immigration and national iden­tity atop the political agenda in what one commentator called "the Europe of Fear." 
In Germany, Italy, France and Austria, far-right parties have made strong showings powered by hostility toward immigrants and disgust with traditional parties. 
Extremist leaders have played on economic uncertainty, rising crime and fears that national identity will be blurred in post­Cold War Europe. 
So far, no far-right party seems close to even a share of national power. The biggest movement, France's National Front, won 13.9 percent of the vote in regional elections last month. But its potential role as a power broker was undercut by the mainstream right's re­fusal to make deals. 
Nevertheless, politicians and analysts say the extremist par­ties reflect sentiments and fears that cannot be ignored. 

Row, row, row your boat. .... 
Terry Coyne kayaks for a Rec sports class held at the Rolf's Aquatic center. 
Arafat's plane disappears in storm 
NICOSIA. Cyprus (AP) -A jet carrying PLO chief Yasser Arafat disappeared in a sand­storm 15 minutes before it was to have landed in southern Libya on a flight from Sudan, sources in his office in Tunis, Tunisia reported. 
One source, contacted by telephone from Nicosia, Cyprus, said the 62-year-old Arafat was scheduled to arrive at an airstrip in al-Kofra, an oasis near the Egyptian border, at about 8.45 p.m. (2:45 p.m EST). 
Contact with the plane, a Soviet-made, Algerian-regis­tered Antonov transport, was lost "a few minutes before then," said the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The Libyan government ordered a search and rescue operation, but helicopters were 
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL INDIGENOUS PEOPLES' DAYS 
April 8 and 9, 1992 
WEDNESDAY: 
* Concert in Fieldhouse Mall -4:00 -7:00 
Featuring: 4:00 The Sister Chain 
5:00 Brian, Colin, Vince 
6:00 Victoria's Real Secret 
* Vigil -Fieldhouse Mall -7:00 (If rain, concert will be in Theodore's 7:00-10:00) 
THURSDAY: 

* Film -"The Mission" -Starring Robert DeNiro and Jeremy Irons 7:00 at the CSC 
*Following the Film: A Discussion Led by Father McDermott 

unable to fly over the area swept by a "heavy sandstorm," the source said. 
The oasis lies about 150 miles northwest of the Sudanese bor­der and 900 miles southeast of Tripoli. 
The source and others at the Palestine Liberation Organization chairman's office refused to speculate as to what might have happened to the plane. 
They said Libyan authorities had told them contact was lost during a "sandstorm," but that the plane may well have "landed safely" in the desert plains. 
Libyan radio broadcast an appeal to "the International Red Cross, the international meteorological, artificial satellites, and civil aviation au­thorities" to try to locate the plane. 
Arafat founded the first guerrilla resistance group against the state of Israel in 1957 and has headed the PLO since February 1969. 
With terrorism and later with diplomacy, he gave the Palestinians a name in interna­tional affairs and repeatedly bounced back from military and political setbacks. 
Arafat came under heavy at­tack from other Fatah leaders at a late March meeting of his Fatah faction in Tunis. 
ummer STORAGE RESERVATION I 683-1959 "' APPROX 2 1/2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 Master Mini Warehouses  
Perennial Bestsellers At Little Professor Choose' from our wide Sf'kef ion or hooks Oil spr·ing planting. gankning. and landscaping. Receive a free seed packet with every gardening book purchase of$5 or more.* •\\ luk ~11pph1 fusfs ~ ~BLlTTLE PROFESSORR ~,~ OOK CENTE Ironwood Plaza North • State Road 23 at Ironwood South Bend • 2774488 • Mon . .Sat.: 10:00-9:00 • Sun.: 10:00-5:00  

page 4 The Observer Wednesday, April 8, 1992 
would have increased the fac­ulty representation on the
Senate 

Academic Council from 18 to 
24, and from the Board of
continued from page 1 

Trustees' violation of an aca­dence." demic article stating the facultyConcerning Malloy's state­shall have the opportunity to ment in Sunday's South Bend review an officer before that Tribune that only a few mem­officer is installed-a violation 
bers of the Faculty Senate were that occurred when the Board responsible for the strength of of Trustees reappointed Provost the movement, O'Connor said, Timothy O'Meara before a "I believe it is a very serious faculty review. misperception on his part. In fact, I am sure we will receive Malloy, who could not be quite a bit of heat (from faculty reached for comment, had pre­supporting the measure) just viously stated that the for having postponed the vote." University is primarily con­
cerned with assuring that "we 

The lack of confidence 
do not lose our core values and stemmed primarily from the fundamental realities that 
Malloy's veto of a proposal that bind us together." 
science degree. Born in Austria, Goldhaber earned his doctorate
Degrees 
in physics from Cambridge University in 1936. In research

continued from page 1 
at Cambridge, the University of 
College of Washington, D.C., Illinois and Brookhaven, he has an MBA from ND and a been a leader in the study of doctorate in business nuclear physics and particle
administration from Indiana physics.University. In 1985 he received the 
He was elected to a six-year National Medal of Science ­term as provincial superior in the highest honor accorded to 1988 and in that role directs U.S. scientists and engineers by
the 450-member province. He the federal government -and is a fellow of the University and in 1991 he shared the Wolf also a member of its board of Foundation Prize in physics. 
trustees. • Juanita Kreps, former U.S. 
• Sister Alice Gallin, executive secretary of commerce and vice 
director of the Association of president emeritus at Duke Catholic Colleges and University, will receive an Universities, will receive an J10norary doctor of laws degree. 
honorary doctor of laws degree. A Cabinet member in the Carter A member of the Order of St. administration, Kreps is active 
Ursula, Gallin held teaching in numerous educational,and administrative positions for governmental and philanthropic25 years at the College of New associations. Rochelle, N.Y.. 
She earned her bachelor's de­

She took her current position gree from Berea College in in 1980 as director of the 200-Kentucky, and master's and member association serving the doctoral degrees from Duke. interests of Catholic institutions She taught at Denison of higher learning. Gallin serves University and Hofstra and on the ND Board of Trustees as Queens Colleges before joining well as on the boards of the the Duke faculty in 1958. 
College of Rochelle and St. Besides teaching, she also has Bonaventure University. served Duke as dean of the 
• Maurice Goldhaber, emeri­Woman's College, assistant tus scientist at Brookhaven provost and vice president. National Laboratory, will re­• William Pfaff, III, author 
ceive 11n honorary doctor of am! nl'wspaper columnist, will deadline for entering is this Thursday, April 9.
HPC 
The council also elected three new HPC senate 

continued from page 1 
representatives: Dave Reinke, Regatta will be held this Stephanie Gallo and Lynn Sunday, April 12, and the Friedewals. 

Attention-Student Summer Storage 
What NEW Mini Warehouse and Storage Faculty REFUSED to charge Deposits, Administrative Fees, and UNFAIR Higher Student Rental Fees Last Season. 
•Security 
System •Resident Manager 

•Spacious 
and Conveniently Located 


We are expanding just for you! CALL NOW for your Reservation!! 
5 X lO's -$30 1290 Prices Special Student Rate 10 X 10 10 X 20 $45 Your Choice! 


But the faculty feels left out of the University's pro.cess to maintain its Catholic identity. According to O'Connor, many faculty feel excluded from the University's Catholic mission. 
"There will be no way of be­ing a Catholic University unless the faculty are a part of that endeavor," said David Burrell, professor of philosophy . 
O'Connor said he hopes that last night's events will hopefully "make clear the depth of the is­sue." 
"Barring any substantial proposals," he added, "the vote will take place on April22." 
be awarded an honorary doctor of laws degree. A 1949 gradu­ate of Notre Dame, Pfaff has lived in Paris since 1971. The author of five books, he has written a syndicated editorial page column for the International Herald Tribune in Paris since 1978. His essays under the title "Reflections" have appeared in The New Yorker magazine since 1971. 
Formerly an editor for the Catholic lay magazine Commonweal, he currently is working on a book on the sig­nificance of nationalism. 
• Chang-Lin Tien, chancellor of the University of California at Berkeley, will receive an honorary doctor of engineering degree. A distinguished teacher and researcher in mechanical engineering, Tien became Berkeley's seventh chancellor in 1990 -the first Asian­American to head a major U.S. research university. 
Born in Wuhan, China, he was educated in Shanghai and Taiwan, where his family fled after World War II. After com­pleting undergraduate work at National Taiwan University, he earned his master's degree at the University of Louisville and his doctorate at Princeton University. 
Texas pipeline explodes 
BRENHAM. Texas (AP) -An explosion packing the power of an earthquake ripped open an underground gas pipeline Tuesday, killing one person, flattening nearby mobile homes, and shaking buildings more than 140 miles away. 
Cars were thrown from nearby roads. Leaves were ripped from trees whose trunks were blackened. Livestock lay dead in fields. At least 16 peo­ple were injured, said Mike Cox, Department of Public Safety spokesman. 
"It looks like a tornado came through except there was a path of fire," said Ron Haussecker, emergency man­agement coordinator for Washington County. 
Hours after the blast, a plume of flame more than 30 feet high still spewed from the ruptured pipeline. 
"We haven't decided yet how to shut it off," said Haussecker. "We're just sitting there." 
"It looks like a tornado that was on fire," Cox said. 
Workers had detected leaking gas in the area before the blast, a company executive said. 
Authorities suspect gas col­lected in a low-lying ravine and was ignited by a passing vehicle or possibly by a pilot light in a nearby home. 
The pipeline carried liquefied propane gas, often called LP gas, said Department of Public Safety spokeswoman Laureen Chernow. 
The explosion occurred in a rural area seven miles south of this eastern Texas town of 12,000. 


• • • • • • • • • • • B • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
MONDAY AND TUESIJAY 
APRIL 13 AND 14 
TRENT 

•
ARTERBERRY 

8:10p.m. Washington Hall 
Tirkets: $B.-Notre Dame and Saine ~ bry 's .~rudcnrs $1 0-Gcncral Admission $'i-Childrcn (I 2 and under) Group rates avaibblc. LaFonune Center Box Otlicc 

Mime Trent Arterberry moves through aseries of contemporary scenes with aunique athletic grace and presence. His show ranges from hilarious descriptive mime to interpretive dance and indudes improvisational sketches with audience participation. Arterberry began swdying mime in the '70s with such masters as Marcel Marceau. 
HALFOFTHEPEOPLE WHOREADTHISAD WON1GETINID LAWSCHOOL. 
Here's a surprise test of your moth skills. Divide 95,000 low school applicants info 44,000 openings. Now you realize why it's so important to take the Ronkin lSAT Preparation course. 
First you'll toke a free diagnostic test. Then we'll work with you in 
access to our computers and study programs. Plus, v.e offer the two-day lSAT Intensive·Study Clinic the last week before the exam. 
Reserve your place in our lSAT course by May 15 and we'll include the $225 clinic for free. Call Ronkin today and find out how the 
bener half gets into the 
small, personalized 

RONKIN.GETIN:· ~~:c:chool 
of their

classes. You'll hove free LSAT•GMAT•GRE•MCAT•TEST PREPARATION AND APPliCATION ASSISTANCE. 
THE OFFER: RESERVE BY MAY 15. SAVE $225. 
South Bend 273-1866 

--~---­

~W~e~d~n~e~sd~a~y~·~Acpr~ii~8~·~1~99~2~---------------------------------T_h_e_O_b_s_e_~_e_r_·____________________________________________~Pc.~e5 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Finance Club Members 

April 23 & 24 
$20I person includes hotel and breakfast reimbursement for gas and parking 
/[interested contact one o[the following by Wednesday April 8th: 
Amy Listerman x4900 Suzanne Juster x4899 Justin Farley x2038 Al Pisa x1179 
SANTIAGO, CHILE ? I 
I 

New University of Notre Dame International Study Program I 
I 

Information Meeting 
with I
Father Tim Scully, CSC Assistant Professor, Government 
I

Director, Latin American Area Studies 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 1992 at 7:00pm Room 208 O'Shaughnessy 
L--~L_L _s!U_D~~T~ ~RJ._W_E~C_O~~ __ 


Wildmon speaks on American values and negative influence of television 
BY BEVIN KOVALIK News Writer 
Americans' faith values have been bombarded by TV, accord­ing to Donald Wildmon, presi­dent of the American Family Association (AFA). 
Television has told Americans that the meaning of life comes from sex, power and money, said Wildmon in a lecture yes­terday titled "The Rise of Anti­Christian Bigotry in American Culture." 
According to Wildmon, the violence, sex, profanity and crime shown on television have 
IS GOD CALLING YOU TO 'i'iiE .~B~TES"l 
11(/aet au.. ~ed to. e ~OMMUNITY -~~iii:;;~ e MINISTRY 
:tt\\\\\\l? I
,~J __.?Ji·~~1' I~Alt,
w.e ~ .,---­
Fr. Pet;;i~Et.1;;;,0. Carm. 
1313 Frontage Rd. • Darien, Illinois 60559 
._____..<7.os_.).ss.z.-.4s•3•6____..~=::=::====~================~~ 

JUST WHEN YOU THOUGHT IT WASN'T SAFE TO COME OUT ..... 
NOT!! 
TUE: ALTERNATIVE MUSIC NIGHT 
Bring your own discs, $2.00 60 oz. deals 
WED: PENNY NIGHT EVERYONE $3.00 
THURS: VELCRO JUMPING 
$3.00 60 oz. deals, prizes 
Outdoor Deck Opened! 
1150 Mishawaka Ave. South Bend, IN 288-0285 
a way of working out into real life. 
The AFA is a Christian orga­nization promoting the Christian ethics in society with special emphasis on the media. "We are concerned about the moral decline in society and the disintegration of the family, 
· which is a central part of our society, " Wildmon said. The AFA is concerned about television because it is an influ­ential cultural medium, he said. "The culture we are passing on to our children is a disgrace to our ancestors and should be an embarrassment to us," Wildmon said. 

SESQUICENTENNIAL YEAR STUDENT COMMITTEE 
Thursday. April 9 Ramada Inn (U.S. 31) 8:30 PM to 1 AM No cover charge 
Friday. April 10 Alumni Senior Club 10 PM to 2 AM No cover for members 
(co-sponsored by Ahunni Senior Club) 
Must be 21 to enter! 
A Sesquicentennial Year Student Charity Event 
Donations will be accepted for the Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp Memorial Scholarships 
jiNTEiiESTEDiNSTUi>vw-i 
Society sees a mirage that an accumulation of money will solve many of their serious problems, Wildmon said. "Money alone will never solve the problems. We must change the environment which created these problems." 
Nor will education alone solve the world's problems con­cerning drugs, poverty, abor­tion, and crime, he said. "An educated thief is simply a better thief," Wildmon said. 
Christian values are the only firm foundation to guide Americans in a democratic, capitalistic society, he said. 
. Wildmon is a United Methodist minister and a mem­ber of the Mississippi Conference of The United Methodist Church. He has ap­peared on such shows as The Today Show, Meet The Press, Good Morning America and Donahue. 
The lecture was sponsored by the GSU Intellectual Life and 

The Observer/Jon Novak Donald Wildmon, president of the American Family Association, lectures last night on the topic "The Rise of Anti-Christian Bigotry in 


$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
r-------------------~----------­
f 
! ~ 
~­
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, April 8, 1992 
~TUDE •NT ~TUDENT• 
GOVIIIMIIT GOVIIIMIIT 
Student Government ant the Alumni Association 
announces the winner of the 1st annual 
FRANK O'MALLEY UNDERGRADUATE TEACHING AWARD 
WILSON D. MISCAMBLE,C.S.C. 
Assistant Professor, History 
Honorable Mention 
Kevin P.Scarlon Barbara J. Mangione 
A. Peter Walshe Alver M. Neiman Barth Pollak Todd D. Whitmore John E. Derwent 
•
~TUDENT 
G0 U I I I M I I T 

Assistant Professor, Finance Asst. Prof. Specialist, Romance Language and Literature Professor, Government Arts and Letters Core Course Professor, Mathematics Assistant Professor, Theology Associate Professor, 
Mathematics 
•
~TUDENT 
GOUIIIMIIT 

Wednesday, April 8, 1992 
Brown said Clinton was closing on the party's presidential
Primaries 
prize. "Everybody was looking at 
continued from page 1 
New York, and he won. Couple 
He was right about that. that with his performances in Interviews with voters in sev­Wisconsin and Kansas and eral states reflected continuing you've got a major night that concern about Clinton's in­moves him closer and closer to tegrity. The Arkansas governor the nomination. I don't think I has been besieged with contro­should be declaring it over, but versy throughout his campaign I can add." over alleged womanizing, the Jerry Brown, who campaigns use of marijuana, his record in relentlessly as an opponent of office and his draft record dur­establishment politics, ap­ing the Vietnam war. peared before supporters in 
Asked whether Clinton has New York. "We intend to rep­the honesty and integrity to resent the unrepresented and serve effectively as president, we'll do that as long as it only 50 percent of Democratic takes," he said. voters in New York said he did. But whatever his rhetoric, the The number was 48 percent in night was a disappointment for Minnesota and 55 percent in Brown. Despite a blazing spot­Wisconsin. light during two weeks of cam-· 
Against that backdrop, his paigning, he was third in New triumphs in New York and York, behind a candidate who elsewhere were testimony to his wasn't even formally in the polished campaign machine race. and his remarkable political There were 362 Democratic skills. delegates at stake Tuesday. 
Tsongas, meeting with re­Clinton began the day with porters outside his home in 1,082, compared to 166 for Lowell, Mass., said he didn't Brown. It takes 2,145 to win the want to play the role of spoiler, nomination. Minnesota was a a declaration that no doubt beauty contest, with no dele­would draw sighs of relief from gates at stake. Clinton and his camp and party officials who want the party to Most Democratic voters re­unify as swiftly as possible. sponding to network exit polls 
Party chairman Ronald said they wanted another can­
Macri's Pizza & Italian Restaurant Pizza-Pasta-Sandwiches-Stuffed Pizza Pies 

The Observer 

didate in the race, CNN re­ported. It said 60 percent in Wisconsin and Kansas and 66 percent in New York were dis­satisfied with the field. In New York, a quarter wanted Tsongas back and a third wanted Gov. Mario Cuomo. 
Clinton stumbled two weeks ago in a Connecticut defeat, and lost Vermont's caucuses to Brown a week ago. After that he was forced into virtual hand­to-hand political combat in New York, confronted not only by Brown's daily attacks, but also by the city's tabloids and damaging disclosures about drugs and the draft. 
He acknowledged that he had tried marijuana while a Rhodes Scholar in England more than 20 years ago, although he said he had never inhaled. And he was forced to disclose that he had received an induction no­tice -later rescinded -from his draft board during the same period, a fact that he had kept to himself earlier in the campaign when controversy swirled about his draft record during the Vietnam War era. 
There was little campaign to speak of on the Republican side. Buchanan was not on the ballot in New York. He made a few appearances in Minnesota and Wisconsin, but aired no television commercials and pretty much gave up his scathing attacks on Bush. 

Carry out or Dine in 20% off pizza with this ad. 52303 Emmons Rd. Georgetown Shopping Center (next to Club Shenanigan's) 
NoTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 

BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE 
8:10PM 

.., WASHINGTON HALL 
RESERVED SEATS $7, 
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT THE LAfORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 

TICKET OFFICE. MAsTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 239·8128 STIJDENTS AND SENIOR CITIZEN DISCOUNTS ARE AVAILABLE FOR WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY AND SUNDAY PERFORMANCES. 

The Department Of Music Presents 
Patrie!( Maroney 
and pianist 'Brian g.,{0 [[ 
in a FACULTY VOICE RECITAL 
Thursday, April9, 7:30p.m. Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art 
The concert is free and open to the public 
BeLEAF IT OR NOT TREES HAVE RIGHTS TOO! 
COMING SOON 
NOTRE DAME FOREST CAMPAIGN 
EARTH DAY TO ARBOR DA17 (APRIL 22-24) 

page 7 

Go against the grain.
Cut down on salt. 

tJAdding saH to your food could subtract years from your life. Because in some people saH contributes to high blood pressure, a condition that increases your risk of heart disease. 
ftAmericanHeart
V Association 
rand Opening April 3rd 
Rainbow Video WE SPECIALIZE IN: Korean Japanese Chinese Video Tapes Free Membership 
State Road 23 & Ironwood 
Next to 76 Gas Station Mon-Sat 10 am to 8 pm Sun 12 noon to 6 pm 
(219} 273-95~ 
Spend three captivating evenings with the Corleone Family!!t Part I Tuesday April 7, 1992 
Part II Wednesday AprilS, 1992 Part III Thursday April9, 1992 All showings at 7pm in 105 Science Hall, Saint Mary's CollegB 
Sponsored by: Popular Culture Group Admission: $1 
Don't Miss It... It'll Be MOBBED!!! 

Viewpoint 
page 8 
Wednesday, April 8, 1992 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor, 
We would like to address this letter to the 18 year-old Saint Mary's woman whose rape was recently reported in The Observer. We would like to ex­press our support and under­standing of your situation and your subsequent decision to remain silent. We want you to know you are not alone, because there are those of use who have experienced similar situations. We share your fear and your pain. 
We respect your silence as a response to the average societal backlash that survivors of rape 
Sports columnist continues tradition of'sexist reporting' 
Students write letter to show their support for rape victim 
Dialogue needed for understanding 
8VeN 7HOUGH 7Het ANOI !X)N'T 
t!Ke YaJR M£55.A£e, t!K& THeM! 
V()TCI(5 mrr5tt3M taJK. AT 7l-t3 
70 ReAUYt/KE ... GtXJFYCifJTH&5 
tf!&... YOIJ, I HAVE 70 fAEAR.. 
70Mt&TTH~.'
\ / 

Dear Editor: 
Nicole McGrath's op1mon column on Mike Tyson con­tained many good points. Her views on rape are incisive. However, towards the end of her writing, she makes a rather absurd observation, based on the sensitivity she showed earlier in the piece. She refers to a "beauty pageant girl"and "one girl has been KOed" in her summation. 
This is the same kind of sub­liminal sexism all-too-often re­flected on college campuses. At Notre Dame last season, the track coach was quoted as praising his "men's" team and his "girl's" team. Where was the uproar from the student body through the student pub­lication? 
DOONESBURY 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........Mike Hobbes VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor .......•.•. Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ..Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary"s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters. is encouraged. 
or brothers and sisters their siblings. 
Slave traders used the auction process to tear families apart; sometimes as punishment; other times, as a way to keep their own slave populations weak and disorganized due to unfamiliarity within their slave communities. It was an economically essential practice to the business of slavery and cannot be separated from the many other brutal and in­humane acts performed against the Africans. 
My purpose for sharing that is because I understand that ignorance breeds insensitivity. I know that when most people sit and think about it, they will conclude that there could have been other activities to raise money for the memorial fund in memory of Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp. 
I don't mean to come off as being oversensitive and I cer­tainly do not criticize the par­ticipants of the event. I, myself, would have gladly participated had I felt less alienated by the auction. I think that we, as African-Americans, however, must keep the events our his­tory in proper perspective, and protect it when it is trivialized or insensitively mocked. 
Dennis Barnes Fischer Graduate Housing experience. We do not condemn you for your silence; we condemn him for his actions against you and all women. Please know you are supported and not blamed for being a vic­tim of a violent crime. 
Jodi Buckley Melissa Budett Katie Damm Katie Kennedy Margaret Ninneman Kathy Roe Saint Mary's College April3, 1992 
There was none. Then Jeff Jeffers, using his usual blowhard style tells listeners of the 6 p.m. news that the Notre Dame girl's team is winning in the MCC tournament while the men's team is awaiting an NIT bid. That is sexist reporting. 
As I await the next generation of reporters, secure in the fact some of the women will be sportswriters and not leave it a male-dominated field, I am dis­heartened to see a student writer so out of touch with sex­ist reporting so as to participate in the same. 
Mike Siroky 
Bremen, IN 
March 31, 1992 Dear Editor: 

I have again been compelled to address a distressing insen­sitivity here within the Notre Dame community. The People Auction was, in my opinion, disrespectful to any person of African heritage. 
I understand that most who just completed those first two sentences are now thinking "Here we go again with this oversensitive reaction by Black people to an event held merely to raise money for a good cause." I understand your ap­prehensions, but, as I try to un­derstand that reaction, at least try to understand what I am attempting to express with this commentary. 
It was estimated that ten mil­lion Africans were enslaved in America and the Caribbean be­tween 1663 and 1863. Approximately one and a half million Africans died during what was called "The Middle Passage," which was the trip from Africa to the Caribbean and the American coastline. 
Another three million Africans died once they reached the Caribbean or America dur­ing the process sometimes called "the training period." This process included a series of brutal beatings, including mental and psychological tor­ture designed to break the spirit of the Africans so they would be too fearful to resist the 
to which they were about to be subjected. (The Negro Almanac, pp. 1433-1434). 
This is what happened to Africans before they were put on the auction block to be sold like cattle to the highest bidder. Now imagine being Black and aware of that history, and you're walking through the law school only to come across a sign that says "Ever wanted to have your very own law slave?" This was the caption posted over the advertisement for the People Auction. 
At first I was just annoyed but that soon turned into disgust. The African Slave Trade was our Holocaust. Slavery itself was an extension of that horror. I don't think that the Jewish community would be very receptive to reenactments of moments from their Holocaust, so I don't think it is unreasonable of me to be upset over reenactments of our tragic history. 
Over fourteen million people were taken from their home­lands. About four million died before experiencing slavery. The survivors and generations to follow were subjected to the most severe treatment imagin­able which included their being auctioned off. 
The auction block many times was the last time mothers and fathers would see their chil­dren, the last time husbands or 

'I did not realize that true dignity, like beauty that is beloved tor its own sake, is not discerned by the eye of flesh, but is seen only by the inward eye.' 
Saint Augustine 

Ya mamy dresses you funny, submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
r 
l r 
~--~-------~-----~---~-----~--~------·--------------­
.................................................................................................................!
... 

Wednesday, April 8, 1992 page 9 
View p 0 i n t 
------~~--------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------~­
Negative atmosphere takes a toll on Capitol Hill 
Postmaster Robert V. Rota Hollywood stars which inflates 
He taught me the great arts of yond Russ' control. Hopefully recently resigned amidst what their egos. After all, they are political savvy and political ser­some of these problems will be some describe as a scandal in human. vice. His resignation taught me corrected under the new reor­the House post office. Rota was Congress is a microcosm of the art of political sacrifice. ganization plan. Yet regardless my dearest friend, my mentor, our country. Some representa­The man loved to go to work of the outcome, Bob Rota's and my hero on Capitol Hill. I tives are intellectual while every day. He always had a reputation will remain clouded. watched the pressure mount on others are not. Some go along smile on his face and would When I think of politics as him as events began to unfold. to get along, and others bash shake anyone's hand. Whenever promoting self-preservation and Not only was it especially hard the institution in an effort to you were in his presence he gain, I think of the members of on him, but it took its toll on me either change their party's sta­made you feel like you were the Congress who told Rota that as well. tus or change the institution. most important person in his this is the kind of thing for 
During the years when Tip When representatives, with life. And like all Italian families, which they pay him. They told O'Neill was speaker, it was fun all of their human characteris­he gave you something (a pen, a him to take the fall for the 1~ood to work on Capitol Hill. tics, perceive viable threats to book, a map, or a calendar) be­of the party and the institution. Democrats and Republicans their status, they react as most Capitol Comments fore you left his office. Even his The majority party felt the heat could fight along tremendously humans would when trying to Gary J. Caruso critics admit that he was one_ of caused by the minority party's partisan lines on the House survive a difficult situation. The of the House of Representatives the best-liked individuals on the bashing of the institution, all in floor, and then be cordial dur­consequences were dramati­as much as any of us fanatical Hill. an effort to gain the majority ing the evening reception cir­cally seen in the cases of the alumni love Notre Dame. Rota What does an admirer think status. cuit. An air of comedy reflected House bank and post office. began his career in the House and do when his hero has It is like the Notre Dame the personalities of both party's House Sergeant-at-Arms Jack thirty-five years ago as a mes­fallen? I still do not know. I am women's softball team bashing leaderships. That all changed Russ resigned because his de­senger who one day literally bitter that he was forced to re­the men's baseball program in when Speaker Jim Wright and partment contained the so­ran around the corner of a sign before any official report an effort to gain varsity status. Rep. Newt Gingrich locked called "bank." It was more of a hallway into Speaker Sam or investigation was concluded. In this case, the means diminish horns in 1989. cooperative where both Rayburn. "Oh excuse me, sir. I I am saddened that in the end the credibility of the institution, 
In Wright's case, fellow Democrat and Republican have to get this to the Speaker even the members who alleged and probably will not accom­members would not come to his members pooled their pay­or they will fire me!" Rota ex­to be his friends walked away plish the ends. defense to catch the Speaker checks (without bearing inter­claimed. from him. "For the good of the while he fell. Consequently, his est) and had overdraft protec­''I'm going to see the Speaker party" was how insiders de­The next time you think. of resignation sent a message to tion. When they were over­now, son. I'll take that for you," scribed the reason given to him. how bad Congress is, think of all members, "if it happened to drawn, they were actually using said the short. balding man. It seems that the Republicans the time you lent your ID to the Speaker, it can happen to other members' money to cover The next day Speaker were going to offer a resolution someone so that they could take anyone." The event catapulted the shortage. Rayburn, impressed with the to impeach Rota and the advantage of one of Notre Gingrich, with his nasty per­The tellers would give a cour­messenger's hustle and sense of Democrats would not be able to Dame's facilities. That sonality and combative ap­tesy call to the members if their obedience, hired Rota. Rota muster enough votes to protect "infraction" is about equal to proach, into the Republican accounts were overdrawn. and then worked for Lyndon him. It was a sad commentary the severity of the House post leadership. Since then, his per­they usually had three days to Johnson, Wright Patman, and on our premise of "innocent un­office's infractions. sonality has controlled the at­make a deposit. The bank ran John Kennedy. til proven guilty." mosphere on Capitol Hill. in this manner for almost 200 Eventually he worked in the Rota directed an office where Whenever you stereotype all 
Today, members of Congress years. House Democratic Cloakroom he had no control over who was representatives in a demeaning seem to be constantly looking Jack Russ attempted to mod­until his election as Postmaster hired. He had employees who manner, think of what it would over their shoulders, afraid that ernize, among his in 1972. As Postmaster, Rota could not read. He had employ­be like to stereotype all Holy someone will accuse them of recommendations was the served under Speakers ees who would excessively call Cross priests based on reports something that will taint their installation of an automatic McCormick, Albert, O'Neill, off from work. At times his of Fr. Burtchaell. Or if you hear names. It is no longer fun to teller machine. He was told that Wright, and Foley-always ea­stamp tellers where not quali­someone talk about how hypo­work on the Hill. The campus the system was not broken so ger to serve the members like a fied to handle money and critical the government is, think atmosphere that once prevailed do not attempt to fix it. While trainer would a championship stamps. More importantly, Rota of Notre Dame's policy of no has turned into a bunker his resignation was a sad thoroughbred. Rota grew up in requested quarterly audits, but alcohol sponsors on our NBC mentaJity. In my opinion, that occasion, most did not grieve the old school where the un­the postal service would rarely contract while our athletic pro­atmosphere was created when much for him because he had written rule was never say no audit the stamp drawers. When grams strive for bowl bids and the members lost their courage an abrupt, harsh personality. to a member. they did conduct an audit, they NIT or NCAA births that are to be statesmen. opting rather Postmaster Bob Rota's I had always wanted to work gave warning to the tellers sponsored by the likes of to run scared like a pack of wild resignation, on the other hand, my way up like Rota did. I had rather than conduct surprise Budweiser. Politics (self­animals. was seen by many as un­hoped to have the opportunity audits. preservation and gain) are at 
Politics can be defined as the deserving and a more tragic to run for an officer's position Those are institutional prob­work in every facet of qur lives. ..... art of self-preservation and event. one day. I observed Rota every lems beyond Rota's control just Bob Rota was my Knute gain. The number one goal of Bob Rota loved the institution chance I had to learn from him. like the bank policies were be-Rockne on Capitol Hill. He was an elected official is reelection. my teacher and my hero. His 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

ND should not reduce budget for University Libraries 
Dear Editor: 
Dave Dieteman's article "Do Us All a Favor ... " (The Observer, March 20) about plans for a new stadium reminded me of Fr. Malloy's article "Reflections on Notre Dame's Place in American Higher Education" (The Observer, Feb. 24). Mr. Dieteman objects to the con­struction of an expansion to the stadium or of a new one on the grounds that both would be extremely expensive ($1 0 to $200 million). 
Fr. Malloy tells us, "Even the best endowed schools cannot properly cover every branch of scholarship and learning. Libraries cannot possess every possible book, serial or collec­tion ... When there is not enough to go around, cuts must be made and stern measures taken." 
The 1992-93 acquisitions budget for the University Libraries shows an increase from the previous one, but due to the fact that costs (across the board from books to US postal rates) have increased more than that, this increase amounts to a cut. 
Fr. Malloy has said wisely that we cannot possess every possible book, serial or collec­tion, and the University Libraries are contemplating drastic cuts in acquisitions, and in public services, but I would dare say that the research and teaching faculty, as well as the students in programs of long standing and present reputa­tion, deserve continuing biblio­graphical support from the Administration. 
In a research institution, li­braries (and other information resources) are not luxuries, but capital investments. Prudent managers consolidate their holdings in recessional times. 
Since "even the best endowed schools cannot properly cover every branch of scholarship and learning," the University should launch new academic programs only after economic support for upgrading the library collect:lons in pertinent areas (if needed) is arranged. Academic planning should include an assessment of library needs since faculty and students cannot do all their research through inter-library loans (furthermore inter-library loans costs money, even when faculty and students using this service do not pay a fee per item). 
Capital goods have to be im­proved and maintained in order to be efficient and productive. Let us not assume that neglect of the library plant is an af­fordable solution in a national research institution. 
Fr. Malloy says in his article, "When there is not enough to go around, cuts must be made and stern measures taken." In a situation where such words are professed the creation of new research programs is im­prudent, and the building of a multimillion dollars stadium is insensate. 
Concerning the projected ex­pansion or construction of a new stadium Dave Dieteman says, "Where would 1\otre Dame scrounge up that ki111d of dough?" It is true that libraries cannot possess every possible book or serial, but in a research institution library cuts, and other stern measures reducing scholarly resources should be taken only as a last resource. Definitely not before taking measures to end expansionism and waste. 
Rafael E. Tarrago Bibliographer Hesburgh Library March 26, 1992 

Accent 
page 10 
John o•Brien 

Rockne's Lovechild 
Instead of best, try for 
weirdest in Bookstore 
basketball 
I 
had to laugh when I saw the Sports Brief in The Observer the other day: "Bookstore Basketball officials are 
needed. Interested?" 
Shyeah, that sounds fun. NOT. 
Anyone in their right mind knows that 
officiating a Bookstore game is about as much 
fun as getting a piece of rusty barbed wire 
pulled through your intestinal tract. 
Don't get me wrong-Bookstore is one of the 
rites of Spring, sort of like nice weather and 
horny people. It can be a lot of fun under the 
right circumstances, but it can also stink 
sometimes. 

That's because the people who play Bookstore 
are, for the most part, a bunch of whiny 
crybabies who equate winning a basketball 
game with life's other victories, such as getting 
into Notre Dame or V-J Day. 
The transformation that takes place between 
the dorm and the court is amazing. That girl or 
guy for whom you would throw yourself under a 
racing locomotive suddenly becomes obsessed 
not only with putting a little round ball through 
a round hoop, but with doing it at all costs. 
People take Bookstore way too seriously. In 
the past there have been instances of cat fights, 
brawls and racial violence in Bookstore games. 
Racial violence? Somewhere, somehow, 
somebody forgot that Bookstore is supposed to 
be a game. 

True, striving to become the best Bookstore 
player around is admirable. Some good players 
even become campus celebrities. 
But the fact remains, even the best Bookstore 
player is, at best, the 13th-or 14th-best 
basketball player on campus. If you include all 
members of both the men's and women's teams, 
that bumps that number down to 30th-best. So 
why bust your butt to be 30th-best? 
Instead of using all of your energy to win 
Bookstore at all costs (and in the process 
earning yourself the title of first-class horse's 
ass), why not try to be the worst? Or even the 
weirdest? 

The accounts of strange goings on in 
Bookstore are many. There was the team that 
wore Speedos and goggles and then covered 
themselves in lard. Then there was the team 
that wore only tightie-whities, and then placed 
large cylindrical objects (like shampoo bottles) 
in their briefs in order to impress the women of 
Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross. It did 
not work. 

This year, there should also be some 
entertaining teams. There's the 
Tutus-perennial favorites to elicit some really 
weird looks. Then there's some guys who are 
wearing tight jeans with change in their 
pockets. I hear they're good. (Hint, hint.) 
But to get to the point of this whole column, I 
would like to offer a reward of $1 in American 
currency and a case of Meister Brau Light to 
any team who will play naked. I mean stark 
naked-no lard, no whip cream, and no, no 
Vaseline. 

Any team brave enough to do so would be revered throughout the ages and would have their name live forever in Bookstore lore. Also, they'd probably catch colds. Nevertheless, they would prove once and for all that all Bookstore players are not a bunch of overly-competitive jerks. 
Anyone willing to take me up on the offer should call me ahead of time so I can witness the act (purely for verification purposes, of course.) I wouldn't miss watching that game for the world. 
But I am sure as hell not going to ref the game. 
John O'Brien is Accent Editor emeritus ofThe Observer. 1/is columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 
Wednesday, April 8, 1992 
Historically speaking ••• 
NO department of Communications and Theater brings history to the present through the production of King Lear 
By MARA DIVIS Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
Special historical effects in the 
production of King Lear will leave 
the audience feeling a part of the 
action, according to the show's 
actors and technical designers. 
The Notre Dame department of 
Communication and Theater's 
production of King Lear will 
premiere tonight in Washington 
Hall, and run until Sunday, April 12. 
The production will include 
elements to make historical 
Shakespeare a reality for the 
audience, said the directors. 
According to director Reginald Bain, the department of Communication and Theater tries to do a Shakespeare production once every two to three years in order to expose theater students to Shakespearean drama. 
"Shakespeare represents the best, the top." he said. "We set Shakespeare as a type of criteria. King Lear itself is an old play, but there's a lot there for us to reach into and recognize in our own experience." 
According to Tom Barkes, director of publicity, the play involves the story of two families, each of whom is trying to divide up its respective kingdom among its children. Each family is ripped apart by the selfishness and greed of its children. 
The issue of society's moral foundation becomes central as innocence and goodness are sacrificed. Shakespeare has created a violent world of brutality and foreshadows that the struggle may lead to an apocalyptic end. 
King Lear, who has become old and feeble, decides to divide his kingdom among his three daughters, each size to be proportionate to her love for him. When one daughter refuses to describe the profound bond of love between her and him, Lear banishes her from the kingdom. 
Parallel to Lear's story is the saga of the two sons of the Earl of Gloucester. Edmund, who is illegitimate, is concerned that he will inherit nothing from Gloucester as long as Edgar, his half-brother, is around. 
In order to secure his inheritance, 
Edmund forges a letter in the name 
of Edgar which suggests that he, 
Edgar, wanted to hasten his father's 
death, and therefore, his own 
inheritance. Gloucester refuses to 
believe that Edgar would want to 
kill him. 

The two plots come together when 
Edmund gets involved in the 
conflict between Lear's daughters. 
As Lear's mental capacity 
deteriorates, the society in which 
they live is destroyed. 
The vanishing of values within the 
family parallels the decay of the 
current society's values. According 
to Bain, some of the issues at the 
heart of the play's conflict are 
central to general society. 
"I've tried to emphasize in the play the primitive world in which Shakespeare set the play," Bain said. "As the values disappear, the whole society tries to go . It's an apocalypse, and we try to show that in the play." 
To illustrate this fraternal brutality, tonight's production will involve fencing, Bain said. 
He enlisted the help of A.L. Soens, Associate Professor of English at Notre Dame. Soens, who has studied the art of fencing, worked with and trained the actors whose characters engage in swordfights. 
According to Soens, the production will involve a Spanish style of fencing common to much of Shakespearean drama. He added that the techniques with which he has trained the actors are among some of the same techniques used by Burbage, one of the primary actors of Shakespeare's time. 
"Fencing shows the characters of Shakespearean plays such as Romeo and Juliet and Hamlet, which are not evident to a modern audience," Soens said. "They've (the current actors) had about a month's training." 
Nd student Chris Murphy, who plays Edgar, son of the Earl of Gloucester, said that the play involves three significant fencing battles which build up to one major conflict between the characters of Edgar and Edmund. 
"It takes a lot of patience," Murphy said. "It's a different technique. We've had to incorporate a different type of sequence into acting." 
ND student Joe Wilson, who plays 
Edmund, agreed with Murphy and 
added that the significance of the 
weapons themselves enhance the 
violence of the conflict at the heart 
of the play. 
"We're using real weapons." he 
said. "Dr. Soens stresses that the 
weapons we're using were made to 
kill. Dr. Bain wanted the base 
brutality manifested in every way­
especially in the weapons, 
throughout the play. I think it'll 
scare the hell out of the audience." 
In addition to acting techniques, the set design will communicate the sense of history within the play, according to set designer Bruce Auerbach. Because the play takes place before Christian or Roman influence had reached England, the designers wanted to create an aura of prehistory, he said. 
"It's a somewhat nondescript, ancient, ritualistic place where ceremonies regularly take place," Auerbach said. "The characters have come here to perform a ritual, an acting out of the legend of King Lear." 
The set consists of wooden frames covered with Styrofoam painted with acetone, which dissolves the Styrofoam and gives it a rough, stone-like appearance. This stone creates the image of prehistory within the play's theme. 
Actors and directors agree that the production will be unique to the Notre Dame stage. 
"I don't think you've ever seen it like this before," said Bain. "It's a difficult play to do, but we've got a good group to do it. There's a real presence of the actor with the audience." 
The audience will become emotionally drawn into the performance, according to Murphy. 
"I think rarely will Notre Dame students have seen a show of this magnitude," he said. "You'll be physically drained at the end of the show." 
Performances of King Lear will run from Wednesday, April 8, to Saturday, April 11, at 8:10p.m. and Sunday, April 12, at 3:10 p.m. Tickets are still available at the LaFortune Box Office. Student discounts of $5 are available for the Wednesday, Thursday, and Sunday performances. 

l 
I 
Wednesday, April 8, 1992 The Observer page~ 11 
1

a;eo04t ttO•·•a 
BOOKSTORE RESULTS WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE 
21 gun Salute del. 2 Sexy 2 Lose, 23-21Tell Your Moms to Stay Out of my Bidness del. We're Too Sexy, 21-11 
we Want Bush '92 del. We Can Beat the Japanese, 21-10 Fab Five del. KEM and the CC's, 21-0 
FIW9rs & Undertoes del. Super Colon Blow, 21-17 
the Dogs del We Have Friends in No Places, 21-11 Ring My Belle II del. Clueless, 21-3 
Creamsicles del. 328,21-12 
sons of Cha~i del. Bones & the 4 Merry Pimps, 21·15 CJ's Pub-ND/SMC Squad del. Bird and the Bees, 21-7
Amides & Aldehides del. Jean &B-Ball Playing Machine, 21-15 
Coed Dorm, HPC After Dinner .. d.Several Species Small Furry Animals, 21-16 Alab~ma Slammers del. P1cn1c Hardware II, 21-1
In It 2 Win it del. 5 Guys Who Can Jump Higher than your Mother. 21-12 
Bridget's del. 1 Guy, Another Guy, & 3 Other Guys, 21-7 F1ght1ng Farley-tt_es_ del. Fwanh Fwanh Fwanh, 21-2 
Golden Horn Dawgs del. Masonry Squad, 21-19 
NO's Most Wanted del. Forget About all that B-Ball Stuff & Learn Guitar, 21-3 EZ4U2NV d,ef. V•ct•rrs of the Flanner Grapevine, 21-2 
Are you Serious del. Ken Kasey & the Merry Pranksters, lorleit 
String Quintet del. USA #I 1994, 21-8 Please Don 1 Hurt Us del. New Age, 21-2
Gauchos del. Laertes Despotic Rule, 21-13 Development Dawgs IV del. Cherry Flavored Tang, 21-7Shamma Lamma Ding Dong del. Annoying Men, 2t -7 Horticulturallsts del. If you don't Shut Us Out You Blow, 21-2
Tenderloins del. Unemployment Line, 21-3 Milaca del. Da Bonespersons, 21-8 
Aphrodisiacs del. Zip 111, 21-16 Knockin' Boot del. Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, 21-10Slim Fast Presents...def. Team Undefined, 21-5 • Liquid Brino del. Morris Inn Keepers, 21-11Psycho Terrorism del. 2 Towers, 2 Scorers, & A Hustler, 21-12 Barking Cliff Chickens del. Sky Lodge, 21-13 .
2 White 2 Win del. Gloria Hoe, 21·2 Urinals for Sale Cheap del. Loose Mucus, forle1tTorts R Us del. Digger Gorby Fr. Burtchell..wish been around another yr, 21-9 White Men Can~ Jump del. 5 Angry Men, 21-11It Can~ Get Any Worse than Last Year del. 2 Sexy for Fr. Burtchell, 21-17 U Me. & OPP del. Sexual Choc, 21-121st Round Action del. The Hunds Part 2: Attillia's revenge, forleit Choata del. 5 Guys who Aren~ Afraid to Pee in the Pool, 21•8 Guru's Posse del. Dribblin Cheetas, 21-6 

The ObseiVer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 3.14 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's c•ffice, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classdiods
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all space!•. 
NOTICES 
05115 WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
$$FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-Sat 
Pandora's Books corner of ND ave & Howard reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday 
LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes every Sat. and Sun. at 8:00AM. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment and training programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948-2665. 
DOS User's Meeting Thurs. April 9 at 7:00pm 
Room G015B of the CCMB Come for the software raffle! 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082. 
Typing 
Pickup & Delivery 
277-7406 
Santiago, Chile is a new site for an ND Year (Semester) Abroad Program. Timothy Scully, C.S.C, 
Latin Amercian Area Studies Program will explain the program this evening, Wed, April 8 at 7:00 
p.m. in 208 O'Shaughnessy. The program for upcoming Sophomores and Juniors with 2 semesters of Spanish, will be for the Spring Semester '93. 
LOST/FOUND 
Still lost! Petite green women's class ring. Inside reads "ACS '93". Lost on St. Pat's Day. If found PLEASE return to 143 Farley Hall or caiiAngie at X4095. 
LOST: Gold Louisville Cardinal charm with ruby eye. Sentimental value! Reward! Call271-1177 
Lost: A pair of eyeglasses w/Carrerra frames, in either Fitzpatrick or LaFortune computer labs on late Wed. night (Mar. 25) or early Thurs. morning (Mar. 26). If found, call Frank @1692. 
FOUND: 1 gold hoop clip-on earring. Between B.P. and Farley, Friday night, 3/27. call Jim -x1558. 
Were you at Rita's on Friday night? 
If so, and you happened to find a watch there, please call Lisa at 4838. The watch holds great sentimental value. Thanks. 
Lost: Blue ID case lost on 4/1 in the Huddle sometime between 11-12 at lunch. Contains NY license, ND id, Senior Bar card, money card, 
Detex. If found, please call 
Dee at 277-5798. 
Found 3128 a strand of pearls by Greenhouse behind Haggar. 
Call Eric x2059 to claim. 
FOUND: TEAL PACIFIC TRAIL SKI JACKET LAST FRIDAY, 3/27, IN CAVANAUGH HALL. CALL MIKE AT 1431. 
Lost: Silver earring with purple stone in it somewhere near Univ. Club, Senior Bar or Fitzpatrick. If found, please call Kelley 283-4836. 
LOST: SILVER LOCKET WI ROSARY 3/4" DIAMETER: FRIDAY 4/3/92 AT OR BETWEEN MAIN CIRCLE & THE ROCKNE, ROCKNE & LAFORTUNE, &fOR LAFORTUNE & MAIN CIRCLE. 234-8789. REWARD. EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE. 
LOST: WALLET LOST LAST THURSDAY AT THE COMMONS. IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO JEFF LYMAN X1171 
WANTED 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDfWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786-8373 
We are looking for a mature and dependable student to babysit our newborn for 30 to 40 hours a week, in our home, starting May 18th. Experience preferred; personal or academic references accepted and salary negotiable. Please call us at 287-3297. 
Need a ride to Vanderbilt any weekend. Will help with expenses, etc. Call Rich@ X1695 
Even though MR. BUSH is speaking at graduation, my aunt still wants to come. Please help her out;Sell me a graduation ticket. Call x4233 
SENIORS: '88 ND Grad is directing an office in Las Vegas for a national, publicly­held company. I'm not interested in your degree. I'm looking for a hard worker who wants a career opportunity. Call702-647-0017 from 10-4. Ask for John. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board I Over 8,000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597. 
Turtle Creek guys need two more roommates for next year. Call Brian at x3414. 
Need a female rider to Dallas/EI Paso after finals ... call Susan 284-4435 
L...-_F_O_R_R_E_N_T_ __.I 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
3 Bedroom Walk to Campus $555 Month 232 3616 
COLLEGE PARK CONDOS-12 NEW UNITS -1300 sq. ft. ­Ironwood & Bulla -2 B/R -2 Bath ­available immediately-call287­0534 or 271-9268. 
Summer sublet-Turtle Creek 2-bdrm, furnished 271-8466 
SUMMER SUBLEASE CHEAPII! 
Furnished Turtle Creek Townhouse 
Available for summer. 2, 3, or 4 
students rent negotiable. 2 
bdr,2b,th, pool. Call Mike/Matt 
X3414 or 3410 
SUMMER SUBLET (TURTLE CREEK) 272-95401 
ONLIY $125 PER PERSON, MO., FOR\.ARGE 4-BEDROOM, FURNISHED HOUSE. COMPLETE SECURITY SYSTEM, WASHER & DRYER, 9-MO. LEASE. DEPOSIT. 259-7801 OR 255-5852. 
6-month Sublet, Jun to Nov 
University Village 2 B/R 
Washer, Air-con, VCR 
$195, 271-8401 

Attractive studio's in lovely old Mansion 112 mile from ND 225­300fMo. plus deposit. Call 2879624 for summer and fall rentals. 
6 BEDROOM HOME. WALK TO CAMPUS.FURNISHED.272-6306 
FOR RENT: 515 W. Marion; roomy 
3-story house, ample parking, 
security, close to ND. 272-5509. 
ROOM FOR RENT. Privacy, garage, cable, utilities incl., wash/dryer. Nice home -must see. 291-9093. 
SUMMER SUBLET!!! 

Turtle Creek-2 bdrm townhouse. 
Rent negotiable. 

Call Teri or Laney x4829 
Classy, furnished APARTMENT for 
SUMMER. Perfect for 2-4. 
Rent cheap/negotiable 
Call Today!!: 273-9111 

2 Bdrms. NOW; 3 available in June, summer school. $200/mo. Use of all facilities. Close to campus, safe neighborhood. 232-2794. 
FOR SALE 
Alumni selling PLANTS and 
FURNITURE. 
Call Robert Smith at 
255-1994 

one way tic. Chcago Midway 
to Boston. 
May 18 $150/best 
call Mike 277-9068 

Round Trip ticket from SB to 
ROANOKE, VA for THIS 
WEEKEND. Call Colleen x4169 
*ROLLERBLADES* Discount prices. Call Larry at GET­IN-LINE 314-644-2005. 
1974 Fiat X1-9, convertable, 
red, replaced motor, 4-sp, 
restored, woman owned, 
$3500 O.B.O. 

Jim 271-1211 or 287-5713 
anytime 

For Sale-3 Guns N'Roses tickets 
for April 10 at the Rosemont 
Price negotiable 

IC,II284;;~,~~TS 
. NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. Will pay ANY amount of money. Call JIM X1577 
Need 1 GRAD tix 

pleeeasel! Carrie x3484 
Paul Tsongas wants tickets!! Total 
$$for 2-4 grad tix Mickey x1846 
DESPERATELY NEED TICKETS TO GRADUATION IN MAY!! 
WILL PAY MUCH$$$!! 
CALL RUSS @ #2369 

FOR SALE: chp. 1 way tick. SB 
to Los Angeles. Monday, 5118. 
Jim x1558. 

Need 1-2 grad tix. Talking big $$. 
Ron 3315, leave message. 
GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED I'm desperate! I need at least three tickets, relatives coming from Georgia. Please call Toni at 284­9346 (8-5) or 277-4320 (eve.) 
PERSONAL 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
You should be with us, feeling like we do... 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award Winning Hotel, has rooms for Graduation weekend. Located at Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 deposit per room. Send letter with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN 46514. 
NEED 2 Tickets for Graduation please call Neal at 283-1159 
Custom-made HAIR-BOWS 
by Lynn and Sally 
call x2764 
-various materials, designs and colors available-
In the heart of every woman, there is a Mardi Gras Mombo waiting to come out... 
DESPERATELY SEEKING GRADUATION TIXIII My Grandmother who raised me is an invalid. She'll never get another chance to see ND and I want to make this one visit the best. Please call if you have tix to spare . Need 4, but will take any number. STEVE #1371 
PORT-A-PIT CHICKEN & RIBS Saturday, April 25, (Blue-Gold Game Day), at St. Joseph's High School. 
Help the parents keep the kids safe after the prom. Proceeds go to support the 
Jr/Sr Post-Prom Party. Advance ticket prices for Port-A-Pit are $3.50/chicken, and $4/ribs. Call 272-3753 and leave message. Tickets can be delivered directly to you on campus. 
Help Me, Please 
I need graduation tickets if anyone has some they are not going to use. Call Quinn at x2059 if you have any info. 
please, help me 
"Squeeze my lemon 'til the juice runs down my leg." Zepfest VI April9, 10 & 11 
HAO, LULAC, and the Office of Minority Student Affairs cordially invite you to the lecture of Victor Villasenor, author of "Rain of Gold", on April 8th at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. A reception will immediately follow. 
LET'S GO GREYHOUND TO PHILADELPHIA. $128.00 ROUND TRIP. RESTRICTIONS APPLY. 287-6541. 
LET'S GO GREYHOUND TO NEW YORK CITY. $116.00 ROUND TRIP. RESTRICTIONS APPLY. 287-6541. 
"GRADUATE SCHOOL PREPARATION" 
JUNIORS are encouraged to attend! 
TODAY, 4:00 p.m. 
Notre Dame Room; LaFortune 
Ivan, have a great 21st birthday!!!!!!!!! Love, Renee 
FRESHMANfSOPHOMORES with 2 semesters or more of SPANISH 
Explore a new ND Year (Semester) Aborad Program in Santiago, Chile. This evening at 
7:00 p.m. 208 O'Shaughnessy 
Is anyone out there interested in studying for our Economics 303 exam: (Statistics) . . . ? ? ? Please call Cris @ X4907 
Does anyone have extra tickets for graduation ? ? Please call Cris @ X4907 
CAP 'N' CORK 
1ST BASE= ONE BOUNCE 
2ND BASE= TWO THROWS 
PITCHERS= THREE BUCKS 
RIGHT FIELD= FOUR DIVES CAP 'N' CORK THURSDAY BASEBALL 
CAP 'N' CORK THOUGHT OF DAY 
IF DUKE'S SO GOOD, WHY AREN'T THEY SEEDED IN BOOKSTORE? CAP 'N'CORK 
N.D.WOMEN'S CHOIR-practice today@ 5:30,Crowley followed by dinner. 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. 
The Lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans! 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center We're Open Everyday!!! 
MAY WE SEE YOUR GLANS P. NISS, PLEASE? 
to the athletic dept.: your time is gonna come -led zeppelin 
ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS A BABY! Young financially secure Catholic couple looking to adopt and provide a loving home to an infant. All Expenses paid. Please call collect (317) 364-0300 for more information. 
THE TUTUS ARE BACK ... 
There I was, there I was, there I was ... in a tutu 
ADOPTION Childless, Christian, Couple wishes to adopt. Legal and medical paid. Call Bill and Kathy, Collect, at 219­322-8187. 
I'm too sexy for my birthday ... 
BRRRRRFFFFFFF!!!!I!!! 
Donde esta los <Chips> chocolates, Esteban? 
tut tut lUI lUI tut.. .. 
Andres, 
Donde esta Stanley? Esta contigo? No? Esta con Hillary? Ah, si. Yo comprendo, pobrecito. Lo siento mucho. 
Donde esta mi <injury>? No me importa. Vamos a tomar bebidos. 
Vomas, ahora. Ahora. AHORA!!!!!! MARICONES!!!!! 

The officers of LULAC would lil<e to thank everyone who participatod in Latin Expressions for their hard work and creativity. Thanks also to everyone who came and made the event a huge success. 
Smile, only 16 more days of classes 
All ND/SMC students are cordially invited to the Hispanic AmerielOtn Organization SYR on Friday, April 1Oth at the Knights of Columbus. The event will take place from 9 
p.m. to 1 :30 a.m. Come and enjoy all types of music. Cost is $5 for couples and $3 if you're going solo. Hope to see you there. 
Murph, 
Break a leg in L E A 
R ! 

(and be careful with the sword:;) 
Mr. Pickle has two friends. 
Garth Brooks is a GOD! 

Hey Pima! I'm glad you're my chick!!! 
THE METHA-TONES Not just a bunch of made-up hoodlums playing rock n roll-a bunch of made-up hoodlums with ADVANCED DEGREES playing rock n roll. FRI. APRIL 10 CLUB 23 
CAP 'N'CORK 
CAP'N'CORK 
CAP'N'CORK 
CAP 'N'CORK 
"4/4/92 Does it usually take three hrs. to get to Chicago Dr.J?" *Who has the map? *What is your most dubious achievement? *Don't tell her but this is a bad neighborhood. *Where's the van? *Adrian, write it downl *Are we there yet mom? *Excuse me. *Look there's 41 North, Oh Goody. *I think Adrian needs more calcium or fiber or maybe some amino acids. •once on the highway there's not much difference between 65 & 55. *Going East on West Washington St., Mr. and Mrs. Carson took a nose dive. 
Thanx for a great time !I 
M.C and Nora 

Mike, Mic, Bounch, & the Mandolin: Congratsl Rock the House down Friday night!!! Love, Your #1 groupies XO 
ICPA is COMING, ICPA is COMING, ICPA is COMING ... 
EARL'S COURT MUST PLAY 

Sr. Maureen and Father Don-You did a great job last night.. ..next you have to learn the "Earthquake"! 
Kristin Lynch ......... Thanks for the phone call. I miss my music & french fry partner! 
Liz a 

I too am another soul who's family still wants to attend graduation despite the appearance of "THE BUSH-MEISTER, GEORGE, THE GEORGE O'RAMA" Call me if you have any extras: 
Lisa 283-4833 

r-----------------------------------------~--------------------------------~------------------------------­
page 12 The Observer 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
the doubles sweep. 

"We played pretty well," Louderback commented. "Western Michigan is always tough and they always fight hard, so this is a good win for us." 
It also gives the Irish some momentum as they prepare for this weekend's trip to Louisiana to face LSU and South Alabama and next week's season finale against Michigan. 
One challenge they will face on Saturday, aside from num­her-23 LSU, is playing out-
On Top 

continued from page 16 
but Murphy's intensity and style and Notre Dame's improving program has drawn hardwork­ing and talented players to Notre Dame in recent years. 
Players like Dan Peltier (1987-1989), Mike Coss (1988­1991 ), Frank Jacobs (1989­1991). Craig Counsell, Joe Binkiewicz, Cory Mee, and the rest of the 1992 team have turned the Irish baseball pro­gram into a legitimate national powerhouse. 
"Expectations have changed a lot," said Murphy about his team. "It used to be a great thing to beat teams like 
SMC 
continued from page 16 
Marshack 6-2, 6-0 at first singles. Kloepfer, playing third, fell by a 6-3, 6-0 margin to Erin 
.. 
doors. Last week, the Irish de­feated Texas A&M outdoors, but the weather hasn't given them the opportunity to get too much practice time outside. 
"If we can get a few more days of practice outside before this weekend we should be in good shape," Louderback said. 
More importantly, however, the Irish must be prepared to face another nationally-ranked opponent. 
"After beating (17th-ranked) Kansas, if we could knock off another top-25 team we will be in a good position," Louderback added. "What we're concerned with now, though, is just winning the three matches that we have left." 
Western Michigan and Toledo, now it is expected." 
Already this year, the Irish have lived up to expectations against several ranked teams, including second-ranked Miami, and have held their own. As a matter of fact, the Irish had beat the Hurricanes four straight including a 2-1 win this year until March 28. 
It's no wonder Murphy is a candidate to replace Fraser, but will Murphy really become a Hurricane? 
"I have to do what is best for me, for my wife, and for my dog. No offer has been made, but if it is I'll take a good look at it," said Murphy. 
Hopefully, Notre Dame, with some help from Murphy will foil Miami again. 
Bow beer. 
Sophomore Thayma Darby continued her winning ways, posting a 7-6 (7-2), 6-4 victory against Karen Miens at fourth singles. Freshmen Andrea Ayers, at fifth singles, dropped a 6-2, 6-4 contest to Lori Wydysh, while at the sixth slot, freshman 

· 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
IISports Briefs. ate accepted in writing durfug business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor o LaFortune. Please submit your name, brief, telephone number, and the dates the brief is to run. 
•Irish 
Heartlights Spring 3 and 6 mile runs are scheduled for April 9 at 4 p.m. Students.and staff can pick up entry forms at RecSports, LaFortune Info desk, and the Dining Halls. For more information, call239-6100 and ask for Sally. 

•Bookstore 
Basketball players who lost watches or a pair o gloves should call283-1224 or 283-1696 to identify. 


• 

•AnTostal 
Bike Races are accepting applicants for the Fast Bike races and the Off-road Bike races. Races start at 4:30p.m. on April 23 at Saint Mary's. Register in the SUB office in LaFortune on Friday or Monday from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Helmets are required. Questions? Call Karl Etzel at 283~2257. 

•AnTostal 
Volleyball tournament sign-ups are Wednesday from 6-9 p.m. in the Sorin Room in LaFortune and in Haggar Hall lobby.· 


•Aerobic instructor tryouts will be conducted on Friday at 5 
p.m. in Gym 1 at the JACC. Men and women interested in auditioning for Aerobic teaching positions next year should complete an application form In the RecSports Office prior to the tryouts. Call 239-5100 for more information. 
•The NO Martial Arts Institute will hold a belt testing and a seminar on Saturday in room 301 of the Rockne Memorial from 1 
p.m. to 8 p.m. Everyone is welcome to attend. 
•Attention 
crew members: there will be a meeting in 120 Cushing at 7:30p.m. on Wednesday. Bring your checkbooks. 

•A 
body fat testing session will be conducted by RecSports on Friday from ll a.m. to 1 p.m. in the LaFortune lobby. No preregistration. is required. 

• 
The Observer is seeking Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students interested in being sports writers. Ifjournalism is for you, contact Mike Scrudato at 239-7471. 


Marissa Pflum lost to Cara McGinn, who have only lost Whelan, 7-5, 6-0. once this season, beat Angel In the rest of the doubles McCabe and Wydysh,.6-3, 6-2. plays, the second doubles tan­"Bowling Green is a Division I dem of Cosgrove and Ayers beat school, and I thought that we Sarah Emdin and Micus 6-4, 6-played them really tough," 
3. Nester said. 
The number-three duo of Darby and junior Shannon 
--~­

----., 
Wednesday, April 8, 1992 
SMC track runs at Manchester 
By CHRIS BACON Sports writer 

Despite the cold and the 
wind, the Saint Mary's track 
team placed seventh overall out 
of nine teams at the 
Manchester Invitational 
Saturday. 
"It was very cold and windy, 

but some people did well," said 
Belles coach Larry 
Szczechowski. 

Beating Goshen and Marion 
Colleges, the Belles tallied 13 
points in Saturday's track and 
field events. 
Seniors Lynn Pfeffer and Sandy Macklin led the Belles, both placing in the triple jump events. Leaping within an inch of one another, Macklin cap­tured fifth with a jump of 31 feet, 1 inch, and Lynn captured sixth with a jump of 31 feet, 2 inches. Pfeffer also grabbed second in the javelin. 
Darcee Bishop turned in an excellent performance on the track, soaring to sixth in the 100m in a time of 13:06. 
The 4 x 100 m relay team of Bishop, Macklin, Christy La Barbera, and Moja Brennan captured sixth with a time of 
54:03. Last year, the Belles placed first in this event. 
Although she did not place at the meet, Cheryl Fortunak turned in another fine perfor­mance, running season bests in the 800 m and 4 x 400 m relay. 
The Belles are preparing for the upcoming Little States Meet on Saturday. 
"Our big meet is Little States. We will be running in one of the better, if not the best tracks in the country. We should do a lot better," added Szczechowski. 

CLASSES THAT WILL REOPEN AT 7:00 P.M. WEDNESDAY 4/8 ACCT 231 10 0830 ACCT 231 11 0831 ACCT 231 15 OS35 ACCT 334 01 OS41 ACCT 479 01 0863 AERO 444L 01 OS72 ANTH 32S 01 279S BA 362 01 1057 BA 363 02 1059 BA 363 04 1061 CAPP 361 01 1165 ENGL 324 01 3592 ENGL 460 01 361S FIN 360 01 1600 FIN 360 02 1601 FIN 361 02 1608 FIN 361 05 1612 GOVT 479 01 4097 HIST 348A 01 372S MATH 323 01 1922 ME 469 01 0235 MGT 231 02 2013 PHIL 222 02 0321 PHIL 223 01 3784 PHIL 239 02 1575 PHIL 261 02 37S8 PHIL 265 01 2201 PSY 342L 01 2447 PSY 454 01 0306 ROSP 103 05 2586 ROSP 103 06 25S7 ROSP 236 01 3837 soc 448 01 3027 THEO 229 01 3S73 THEO 237 01 0709 CLOSED SECTIONS AS OF 6:00 P.M. 4/7 ACCT 231 01 0821 ACCT 231 02 0822  ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT AERO AERO AERO AERO AERO AERO AFAM AFAM AFAM AFAM AFAM ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ARHI ARHI ARST ARST BA BA  231 05 0825 231 06 0826 231 OS OS2S 231 09 0829 231 10 OS30 231 11 OS31 231 12 OS32 231 13 OS33 231 14 OS34 231 15 OS35 334 01 OS41 334 02 OS42 371 04 0849 372 01 0852 473 01 OS54 475 02 0857 475 03 0858 476 01 3007 479 01 0863 444L 01 0872 444L 02 0873 444L 04 OS75 446L 02 0879 446L 03 OSSO 446L 04 OSS1 384 01 3520 384C 01 3519 401 01 3463 452 01 3214 474 01 4152 310 01 2935 313 01 3536 328 01 279S 329 01 3225 329A 01 3539 405A 01 3544 420 01 2566 454 01 302S 397 01 3307 461 01 3550 133S 01 0990 325S 01 1003 362 01 1057 363 02 1059  BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BIOS BIOS BIOS BIOS BIOS BIOS CAPP CAPP CE CHEM CHEM CHEM CHEM CHEM CHEM CHEM CHEM CHEM CHEM COTH COTH COTH COTH COTH ECON ECON ECON ECON ECON ECON EOUC EOUC EOUC EOUC EOUC EE EE  363 03 1060 363 04 1061 391 01 0769 391 02 0768 391 03 0559 490 03 1067 490 04 106S 344L 01 1084 344L 02 1085 344L 03 3897 405 01 0135 420L 02 1931 455 01 3991 315 01 1164 361 01 1165 442 01 1178 119L 02 3053 119L 04 3057 201 01 3998 201 03 1228 322L 01 1242 322L 02 1243 333L 01 4000 333L 02 1245 333L 03 1246 333L 04 1247 325 01 3568 330 01 3569 334C 01 3572 377 01 3079 435 01 3575 303L 02 0296 403 01 3584 403T 01 3585 421 01 1350 422 01 0662 489 01 1881 201 F 04 8404 324 18 8418 404 26 8426 440L 30 S430 452 42 S442 222T 01 1373 342L 01 1397  EE EE EE EE ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN GE GOVT GOVT GOVT GOVT GOVT GOVT  342L 02 1398 342L 04 0144 344T 02 1402 34ST 02 2690 310 01 1560 .311 01 1561 319A 01 1564 319A 02 1565 324 01 3592 340 01 0041 384C 01 3164 416F 01 3074 416G 01 3608 417 01 3611 440B 01 3613 460 01 3618 475A 01 3351 47SB 01 3624 485C 01 1581 492C 01 362S 493A 01 3629 495A 01 3630 595B 01 363S 360 01 1600 360 02 1601 360 03 1602 360 04 1605 361 01 1607 361 02 1608 361 05 1612 361 06 1613 376 04 1620 380 03 1623 462 01 1625 473 01 1629 476 01 0117 478 01 1630 301 01 2984 340T 02 3668 340T 03 3669 343T 03 0384 403 01 3670 419 01 4150 454 01 3673  GOVT GOVT GSC GSC GSC GSC HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST liPS liPS liPS LAW LAW LAW LAW LAW LAW LAW LAW LAW LAW LLRO MARK MARK MATH MATH MBA ME ME ME ME  474 01 4096 479 01 4097 358 01 364S 430 01 3457 475 01 3657 480Z 01 3352 308 01 3119 308A 01 3722 326A 01 3723 348A 01 3728 354A 01 3731 358A 01 3733 395 01 0080 431A 01 3737 444A 01 3741 453A 01 3743 458 01 3744 45SA 01 3745 459A 01 3746 465A 01 3747 472A 01 3748 247 01 3192 335 01 4138 473C 01 4145 506 02 1787 601 01 1806 602 02 1809 603 02 1810 631A 01 1826 631B 01 1S27 633 01 2994 652A 01 0535 695 03 1841 695 05 1843 451 01 3826 350 02 1855 476 01 1861 323 01 1922 325 01 1923 601 01 4074 327 01 1995 334 01 401S 334L 01 4019 469 01 0235  MGT MGT MGT MGT MGT MGT MGT MGT Ml Ml MUS MUS MUS MUS NSCI PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHYS PHYS PHYS PHYS PHYS PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY RLST  231 01 2012 231 02 2013 231 03 2015 231 04 2017 231 05 2018 231 06 2019 231 07 2020 231 OS 2021 305 01 4153 308 01 3120 2200 01 2092 2200 02 0330 221 01 2646 223 01 0327 411 03 2165 222 01 2195 222 02 0321 223 01 3784 225 01 3137 230 01 3785 235 01 2197 238 01 0449 239 02 1575 242 01 0055 243 01 3786 247 01 3190 253 01 3141 261 01 2200 261 02 3788 263 01 3789 265 01 2201 26S 01 2202 221L 02 2234 222 01 2238 222L 01 2239 331L 01 2249 331L 02 0658 342 01 2363 342L 01 2447 356 01 3809 454 01 0306 472 01 2364 481 01 3813 220 24 9524  RLST RLST RLST RLST RLST ROFR ROIT ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP SOC soc soc soc soc soc soc soc soc soc soc STV STV STV THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO  235 40 9540 235 42 9542 240 28 9528 240 30 9530 335 56 9556 426 01 3438 312 01 2852 103 04 2585 103 05 2586 103 06 2587 236 01 3837 318 01 2602 328 01 2603 220T 01 4109 242 01 3843 242 02 3844 300 01 3845 332 01 0054 374 01 3449 400 01 3850 400T 01 3851 445 01 3855 448 01 3027 520 01 2631 247 01 3290 310 01 3716 454 01 3029 224 01 0262 229 01 3873 237 01 0709 250 01 0661 258 01 3874 261 01 0704 263 02 3876 264 01 3S77 265 01 0703 286 01 3882 2S7 01 0254 288 01 4070 290 01 4156 290 02 4157  


Wednesday, April 8, 1992 The Observer page~ 13 
Men's tennis to face No. 22 Ball State &r ..,w,t~ro~~ tough r:patch ·· · Match to mark home finale of All-American Dilucia rd-ranl<ed Graceland Coli 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Sports Writer 
Today marks the final home match for Notre Dame's first two-time tennis All-American, and the Irish couldn't even schedule a push-over for David DiLucia's last match. 
The Irish will be facing the 22nd-ranked Cardinals of Ball State, and the third-ranked DiLucia will meet up with an old nemesis, 21st-ranked Dan Kronauge. In the team's earlier meeting in the semifinals of the 
H.E.B. Classic, it took DiLucia almost three hours close out a tough 7-5, 6-4 win. 
On the line for DiLucia will be his number-three national ranking, his perfect 14-0 dual match record, and a victory in his last match at Notre Dame. 
"Dan Kronauge and David are pretty evenly matched and they've had some real battles over the last few years," said Irish head coach Bob Bayliss: 
"The pressure of a last home match also gets thrown at David. It's only human to let emotions enter into a match like this, but I think he'll be 
JUNIORS 
Last Opportunity to Order JPW Pictures 
Wednesday April 8th 
O'Hara Lounge LaFortune 7pm-10pm 
Any questions-Call Marianne at x-4174 
IS THERE LIFE AFTER ND??? A RETREAT FOR GRADUATING SENIORS APRIL 25-26 
This may be your last chance to make a Notre Dame Retreat! limited Space Available. 
Sign up by Aprill5 Applications are in the Campus Ministry Office I 03 Hesburgh Library 
For further infonnation contact Judy Hutchinson: 239-6515 
j#• 
David Dilucia 

fine." 
Aside from the spectacle of David DiLucia Day, the Irish will also have their hands full with a powerful, experienced Ball State squad. The Irish won the earlier matchup 5-l, but if history repeats itself the Irish will have a tough time re­peating. 
Twice this year, against 8th­ranked North Carolina and 15th-ranked Florida, the Irish have won the first meeting only to lose in the rematch. These losses in the two rematches ac­count for all but one of the Irish's blemishes in their 17-3 overall record. 
If the Irish hope to dodge the bullet this time around they will have to get good matches from the rest of their outstanding singles lineup. 
Last time out, 49th-ranked , Andy Zurcher, Chuck Coleman, Will Forsyth, and Chris Wojtalik all scored straight-set victories and will be counted on to duplicate this feat. 
However, the Cardinals pre­sent the biggest problem in doubles, as they boast the best doubles team in the Midwest. 
The fourth-ranked tandem of Kronauge and Paul Krause (14­
2) will challenge the Irish's sev­enth-ranked team of Coleman and DiLucia in a must-win situ­ation. An Irish victory would go a long way to ensure the two an individual NCAA berth. 
In addition to the big doubles matchup, the Irish will also be looking to establish themselves once again as the Midwest's best team. Ball State finished second in the region last year and are currently third, so an­other big victory could show the other schools who will be reckoned with come tourna­ment time. 
"If we can manage a win against Ball State we'll be in the drivers seat for the regional crown and an NCAA berth," noted Bayliss. "It is a big re­gional match." 
Correction 
Tracy Barton, pictured on the back page of yesterday's Observer, is no longer playing on the women's tennis team due to injury. The Observer regrets running the photo. 
Recycle 
Thank You 
The University of Notre Dame Biology Club presents 
Dr. David Hyde, Assistant Professor of Biological Sciences 
A Brave New World --­Molecular Biology Enters Law and Medicine 
Wednesday, April 8 at 7:30pm Galvin Auditorium, Room 283 
i:t:.:m'!'ke•:O<''''''/:!I;!t••· 11~COres made it f4~6. .•:•:•l•l•;;•;:•:•iS:•cliil@;~<;•;••·. In ·game two, the 
powered to an app rally :was typical of th¢. comfortable 14-3 lead...•,. men's y<>lteyball rna left 'the d.o.tir open en Notre Dame · committing several 
.....,~,.....J,u College. .•. though, and Graceland score tied 7 ~ 7 in the from there, getting three .,. ...-..v• the te~ms staged a and four kills to complete lfttlt1o1.ts l~'Wl.J~.Iltle, ·each po.mtding stunn!ng comeback. . . and putting ' "That's pretty bad (to lose) to have when you're up 14-3," OlliPO'lletlt u·v~.~,...,,...., to said.' "But it happens. We we 
Equestrian clu 
By SAMANTHA SPENCER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Equestrian Club finished off its regular season with a bang this weekend at Taylor University in Upland, Indiana. 
Competing against regional teams including Ball State, Purdue, Northwestern and Kansas, Notre Dame enjoyed strong showings from its four entrants in the competition. In the novice category, junior Dawn Overstreet placed third in the flat class and fifth in fence. For the beginne·rs, freshman Julie Barry and ju­nior Eric Ivanovich turned in key performances. with Barry placing second in both of her flats and Ivanovich notching a second in his first flat and a first place in his second flat. 
Club vice-president Angela Cutrona, competing on the in­termediate level, took a third in her flat and a fifth in fence. Cutrona, Barry, Ivanovich, and fellow teammate Larissa Wenning will take their talent and experience to the regional meet this weekend. 
"We're practicing as hard as ever, and we anticipate go­ing to nationals this yea.r," commented Cutrona on the progress of the team. 
The upcoming show will be the second regional competition for all except Barry, as the strength of this group is evident due to experience and an increasing sense of unity. 
As Cutrona remarked, "The team is really pulling together and becoming more of a team than a group of individuals." 
The club is hoping to carry this spirit all the way through to the national meet later this month, with this unity helping to bring out the best in indi,id­ual performances. 
..._..._...,.,..,_
--.-... 
._.._.... 
.............._,_... 
....,._.._,...,_ 
--· 

-------~--------~----­

page 14 The Observer 
Baseball team to challenge Purdue 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
With wins in three of its last four games, the 15th-ranked Notre Dame baseball team (14­
8) will try to improve on that stat when they take on Purdue (11-7) this afternoon at Coveleski Stadium. 
The Boilermakers will come out swinging against the Irish in hopes of an upset with big hitters, Biltimier, Helsel. and Allensworth. Biltimier is hitting .393 with 40 runs batted in and eight homeruns for the season. Helsel (.338. 14 HBI) is the speedster on the team, having swiped 15 bases in 16 attempts while Allensworth is also an of­fensive threat with a .333 aver­age and 26 runs batted in. 
"Purdue comes in with a chance to knock off one of the better teams in the country," said Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy. "We've handled them recently and we will continue to tomorrow if we are healthy." 
Notre Dame will counter with its big guns, Eric Danapilis, Joe Binkiewicz, and Craig Counsell. Danapilis (.391, 23 RBI, 4 HR prior to the Toledo game) went 3 for 4 in Monday's game against Toledo. Counsell (.321, 18 RBI, 3 HR prior to Toledo) also had _a productive day against the Rockets, going 2 for 
4. The Irish shortstop is the leading scorer for the Irish, having crossed the plate 24 times so far this year. 
Binkiewicz hit a towering round-tripper over the right field fence yesterday, to raise his total to four. The senior first-baseman has also been perfect in the field having not committed an error and notch­ing 209 putouts and six assists. 
The Irish hitters will probably be challenged by one of the top pitchers in the country. Right­hander Sharard Clinkscales, who will most likely be a starter for the United States Olympic baseball team this summer in Barcelona, figures to be on the mound against the Irish today. Clinkscales (5-1) has a 2.72 

ERA on the year in addition to 51 strikeouts and 31 walks. 
The Irish pitching core has been strained recently with the full schedule the Irish have played in the last few days. Juniors Pat Leahy, AI Walania, Chris Michalak, and Dave Sinnes have all started games on the mound for Notre Dame since Saturday and are not as rested as usual. Today's game may bring some new faces to the mound like freshman Marty DeGraff who got his first col­legiate start against Toledo. 
Last year, Notre Dame and Purdue did not meet, but in 1990 the Irish and the Boilermakers played each other twice. The teams split the series with Purdue winning the first contest 10-8. Notre Dame used the home field to its advantage in the second game with a 14-2 trouncing of the Boilermakers. Sinnes was the winning pitcher in that contest and Counsell hit the game-winning RBI. 
The Notre Dame-Purdue game today starts at 3 p.m. at Coveleski Stadium. 
Petrucelli experiments with starting lineup as women's soccer team continues spring practice 


By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
While the Notre Dame foot­ball team is conducting its spring drills under the micro­scope of the national media, the Irish men's and women's soccer teams have gone through their off-season practices in relative obscurity. 
Both are coming off highly­successful seasons in which they narrowly missed the NCAA Tournament and are working toward reaching that goal this f<tll. 
The women were dealt a tremendous blow when they lost Stephanie Porter, last sea­son's Midwestern Collegiate Conference Player of the Year, for the spring when she tore her anterior cruciate ligament 
n March. 
She is scheduled to undergo reconstructive knee surgery on Friday. 
"There is a good chance we will have her back for the fall," Notre Dame women's soccer coach Chris Petruceiri said. 
What we don't know is how well she will play." 
In Porter's absence, the Irish have been doing a lot of exper­imenting. 
"We have been playing a lot of different players and a lot of people at different positions," Petrucelli explained. "We are also trying some different sys­tems of play and trying to find what best suits this team." 
One major trial is the use of three forwards. Last season, Notre Dame played with only two, usually Porter and gradu­ating senior Susie Zilvitis, the university's all-time scoring 
Alison Lester 
leader. 
Petrucelli has been using Jodi Hartwig, Alison Lester and Gennifer Kwiatkowski up front. 
"It has been working well so far," Petrucelli stated. 
Hartwig and Lester were mid­fielders last season while Kwiatkowski has spent the first two seasons of her collegiate career as Notre Dame's starting sweeper. 
"We moved Gennifer just to see if she can play there," Petrucelli commented. "We know she can play sweeper, now we want to see her some­where else." 
Margaret Jarc has been shifted back to sweeper in this alignment, where she is teamed with returning starters Andrea Kurek and Jill Matesic. 
Though Petrucelli is pleased with the play of this lineup, he is not sure if it will remain in tact for the fall. 
In goal. Notre Dame has used both incumbent Michelle Lodyga and Kim Gold. Gold struggled at times throughout her freshman season, but has played well this spring. 
"Kim has really come on. She 

Circle K Organizational Meeting Wednesday April 8 at 7:00 pm in Montgomery Theater 
Chance to get involved in social and service activities Improve relations with South Bend community Meet students from across campus Make connections with Kiwanis members and local leaders leadership positions available 
is playing with a lot more con­fidence," Petrucelli said. "We are at the point where we have two quality goalkeepers." 
Thus far this spring, the women's team has compiled a 2-2 record, but Petrucelli is not concerned. 
"This is a learning experience for next fall. Right now, we are trying to make everyone better individual players. In the fall we will work on how well the team plays together. 
"Our goal is to play well every game, that is the most impor­tant thing. From there, every­thing else will come." 
Tomorrow the Observer will feature an update on the progress of the men's soccer team. 

SMC softball sweeps Bethel 
By EILEEN MCGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's Belles (7-6) halted Bethel College's six game winning streak yesterday by overpowering the Lady Pilots in a doubleheader 6-1 and 4-3 at the Belles' home field. 
The heart of Bethel's order proved no match for the Belles' superior effort as Saint Mary's racked up six runs on 11 hits, while holding Bethel to only one unearned run during the first confrontation. 
Sophomore Sara Miller went 2-3 with two RBI's while sophomore Stacy Bogataj chipped in two hits as well. First-year pitcher Lisa Bright went the distance, striking out seven while only walking two. 
During the second battle, Bright again made a valiant ef­fort to keep the score to a minimum. She recorded seven strike outs and two walks. 
This game, however, went down to the wire but the Belles pulled it out. Saint Mary's trailed 3-2 coming into the sixth inning, but Seanne Patrick began the rally which ultimately tied the score. 
Then, in the bottom of the seventh, senior Carol Grobner led off with a triple. Bogataj then singled her in for the game-winning hit. 
"We never gave up," stated Grobner. "We played our best until the end. Our intensity level increased as the game went on. I'm impressed with our team." 
Saint Mary's will travel to Kalamazoo this Thursday to try to improve upon their three­game winning streak.Also, a postponed game against Albion College has been rescheduled for Monday, April 13. 
NEXT STOP: WIMBLEDON 
Come see 3rd-ranked singles player Dave DiLucia in his final match at Notre Dame 8th-Ranked IRISH vs 22nd-Ranked BALL STATE 



Wednesday, April 8 3:15pm Eck Pavilion 
FREE ADMISSION 
r----------------------------------------------­
----~----~­
Today 
Wednesday, April 8, 1992 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
IT'S C1'J TH£ Ont£ R I TH I~K THIS Sttow SID£ OF ntf ROOM. IS 6EII!Ntn BETTER 
ON£ OF us WILL 
HAV£ TO 6GT~UP 
TO 6 £T IT. 
BILL WATTERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
IF 1'\JE LE~Rl-IED GNE T~ING 't-1\-lfl..Ts YOIIR IN UFE, ITS n.tfl..\ E\ft.R'(OOE PRICE? r--~~ 1-\AS 1-\\5 PRICE . 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPIN JOHN MONKS 

MENU 

Notre Dame 
Marinated Flank Steak Sandwich Cheese Sticks w/Marinara Sauce Grilled Sole 
Saint Mary's 
Philly Sandwich Deli Bar Fried Perch Vegtrn. Eggplant Parm. Cass. 
tJ 
A 
.. 
.

i ~ 
TALL TALLER 

COOL 
COOLER 


.
(II 6 0aBEER 


Get your ERs straight 
CAMPUS 
Wednesday 

7 p.m. Popular Culture Group Film Series, "The Godfather Part II." Sponsored by Popular Culture Group, Saint Mary's College. Science Hall, Saint Mary's College. Admission $. 
7:30 p.m. Notre Dame Jazz Festival Preview. Sponsored by Department of Music. Band Rehearsal Hall. 
8:10 p.m. William Shakespeare's "King Lear." Washington Hall. Reserved seats are $7. Student and· senior citizens tickets are $5. 
~======================~===================----------------------------------· 
Princess Bride 
C) Edward Julius Collegiate CW83-7 
ACROSS 41 Wound mark 13 Large African 42 Feudal lord mammals 1 Highly-seasoned 43 English architect 15 Threefold stew 44 Thermometer scale 16 Sonny and ---­
7 Rise (abbr.) 21 Charlton Heston 13 Smooth wood again 45 West coast capital film (2 wds.) 14 Popeye, e.g. 46 Laughing 22 O'Neill output 15 Criminal's goal 47 Adjusts (3 wds.) 24 Fed the kitty 
(3 wds.) 50 Feel remorse 25 Hold accountable 17 Search and rob 51 Isolates for 18 Group character~ 52 Balance sheet 27 Organic compound
istics section 28 Wedding component 19 Uncle ----53 Emphasize 30 Scrap 20 Arrow poison 31 Eye makeup 21 Anesthetic DOWN 32 Acquiesces 22 Prank 33 POW camps 23 "...-iron bars 1 Double-breasted 34 Nathanael and 
a cage" coats Lorne 24 Modify 2 ----Annie 35 Water bottles 25 Grill 3-club 36 Happenings 26 Perfumes 4 Paddle 37 -Doming!l 28 White: Sp. 5 Free from restraint 39 East Indies 29 -crazy 6 Cuts incisors woody vine 30 Filter brand 7 Actress Mary ----42 Endures 31 Descriptive of 8 Pouches 43 Baseball great 
sailing ships 9 Approximate date Haury­34 Expressions of (abbr.) 45 Let it stand 
disgust 10 A slurring over 46 Tremble (obs.) 38 Did stage work 11 Wandering 48 Beginning for 39 Student evaluation 12 Rapid fluttering dominent or eminent 40 Ms. Gardner of a tone 49 Title for Olivier 
LECTURES  
Wednesday 12:15 p.m. Lenten Series 1992 Honoring the Sisters of the Holy Cross, "God's Lent and Our Own: What Does God Give Up?" Joseph Incandel, professor. Sponsored by Center for Spirituality, Saint Mary's College. Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's College. 7 p.m. Lecture and Reading, "Rain of Gold," Victor Villasenor, author. Sponsored by Minority Student Affairs. Hesburgh Library Auditorium . 7:30 p.m. Roundtable Discussion, "Environmental Implications of the North American Free Trade Agreement: Myths and Realities," Jorge Bustamante, Uoyd Ketchum, Jr., Kwan Kim and Jamie Ros. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. Room C~103, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 7:30 p.m. "A Brave New World-Molecular Biology Enters Law and Medicine," David Hyde, Assistant Professor of Biology, University of Notre Dame. Sponsored by University of Notre Dame Biology Club. Room 283, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 12:15 p.m. Understanding and Managing Family Resources, "Living Wills and Similar Instruments," Thomas Varga, '75 ND alumnus, Financial Assoc. Sponsored by Department of Accountancy and Hesburgh Library. Room 121, Hayes Healy.  

8:30 & 10:00 Thursday, April 9th 
"The Shirt" 
JFK

On Sale Now while supplies last 8:00 9-5 pm at the Student Government Office Friday, April IOth Saturday, April 11th 
Cost is $5.00 
Cushing Auditorium Admission $2.00 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 

~--------------~-----~ -· --·~-­
----------~----------~~·~ 
Sports 
page 16 
JENNY MARTEN 
On Top of Sports 

Hurricanes seeking Notre Dame's baseball coach 
If there is one thing Notre Dame fans hate more than anything, it is losing to Miami. 
What most Irish fans don't know is how dose they are to losing something very important to (ugh ... gasp ... choke) the llurricanes. 
Notre Dame's head baseball coach has 
been in South Brmd since August 20, 
191-\7 and has been rebuilding the 
program ever since. 

The Irish baseball team went 15-29 in tlw season before Murphy's arrival and lost gamf~S to Division Ill and NAIA teams. 
In his five years under the Dome, Murphy's teams have amassed a 192-77­l record which includes the 22nd-ranked 1992 team's current 14-8 record. 
So what do Murphy and Miami have in common? Well, the Hurricanes head coach Ron Fraser, the NCAA's winningest active coach and the 1992 United States Olympic coach, is retiring this year. In his 30 years at Miami, Fraser, a three-time NCAA Coach of the Year, has led his teams to two NCAA College World Series titles. 
liP. is leaving some mighty big shoes to fill and the Miami hierarchy seems to think Murphy might be the man to do it. Tlw Notre Dame coach has been contacted by Edward T. Foote, the president of the University of Miami and Dave Maggard. the Athletic Director for preliminary inquiries. 
What does Murphy think of the whole situation? 
''I'm flattered," said the coach. "It's a compliment to the kids and what they've accomplished. I take a great pride in what I've done here." 
And what he has done is amazing. Think of all the obstacles a team located in South Bend has to face. The weather is, well, wet, miserable, cold, and depressing as we all well know and not quite conducive to baseball. 
The Irish have not held a practice outside yet and the season opener at Coveleski Stadium in downtown South Bend on April 2 got snowed out this year. 
Compare that to Miami and the other southern teams who have practiced outside all winter in weather that Notre Dame students flock to over spring break. 
Not to mention the fact that Notre Dame doesn't have an on-campus stadium of the caliber of those down south. A stadium is something that Murphy has really pushed for in his tenure as the Irish coach. 
In 199:l, his efforts will be rewarded when Frank E. Eck Stadium opens on the southeast cornBr of campus. 
Hecruiting isn't easy with the top recruits migrating towards those baseball dynasties located in the south and west, 
see ON TOP I page 12 
INSIDE SPORTS 
The Observer/Jake Peters Sophomore Terri Vitale, shown here against Northwestern, cruised to victory at fifth singles as the Irish pounded Western Michigan 8-1. 
Wednesday, April 8, 1992 Women's tennis wins final home contest 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 

It was the seniors' farewell, but it was Western Michigan who was sent packing last night at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Seniors Ann Bradshaw, Katie Clark and Kristy Doran led the Notre Dame wompn 's tennis trmm to an P.asy 8-1 win in the final home match of their careP.rs. 
Sophomore Terri Vitale paced the attack, defeating Shannon Dean 6-0, 6-0 at number five singles. Freshman Laura Schwab was also impressive at number two singles as she dumped !lolly Taylor 6-1, 6-1. 
•Dilucia's final home match/ page 13 
Streakmg sophomore Lisa l'holen was sfretdwd to three sets before winning her 17th match in 1 H tries at number-four singles. while top Irish singles player Melissa Harris struggled to defeat Amy McClure 7-5, 6-2. 
"Harris had a tough first set and somBtimes seorBs can be decP.iving," Irish coach Jay Louderback said, downplaying his team's lopsided wins. "If we lose that match at number one and the three-setter at number four, we're heading into doubles tied 3-3." 
Instead, they went into doubles play with a 5-1 lead and the outcome already decided. 
Faustmann and Tholen blew past McClure and Shanan Condon 6-3, 6-0 at number one doubles and seniors Katie Clark and Kristy Doran finished their final home match with a 7-5, 6-1 win at number three doubles. 
Eniko Bende and Laura Schwab dropped the first set, but won the final two in convincing fashion to complete 
see IRISH I page 12 

Softball splits twinbill with Northern Illinois 
By NICOLE McGRATH Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame softball team travelled to Northern Illinois yesterday for a doubleheader, and came away with a split of two close games. 
In the opener, the Irish, now 18-14, squeezed out a narrow 1-0 victory behind the solid pitching of Carrie Miller, who tossed eight innings of shutout ball, yielding seven hits and walking three while striking out one. 
"She (Miller) threw a really nice game," said Irish coach 
Brian  Boulac,  "and  held  
them well."  
Miller  (5-4)  was  in  a  
pitching  duel  with  the  
Huskies'  Kristin  
Vandenhouten  (6-4)  

throughout the game. Neither pitcher yielded a run through seven innings, but the Irish would cross the plate in the top of the eighth with the winning run. 

Carrie Miller 

With two outs, catcher Amy Folsom singled. Pinch runner Michelle Cline was then driven in by rightfielder Sara Hayes for the game's only run. Miller was able to shut the Huskies down in the bottom of the eighth to preserve the victory. 
The Irish stranded six run­ners in the game and committed two errors, but dug deep and were able to come away with the win. 
In the second game, it was Northern Illinois who prevailed, this time by a 2-0 
Belles tennis falters 
By KILEY COBLE Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's tennis team, 6-6, is going up against Valparaiso University on Wednesday. The Lady Crusaders were 5-8 last year and have their two top players from last year back with them this season. 
Playing number-one singles for Valparaiso is Lynne Bos, a sophomore from Grand Hapids, while Janet Shrom, a junior from South Bend will be handling the second-singles duties. The Lady Crusaders boast four margin. 
The Irish managed only two hits off Kim Compton, who also fanned three. Tracy Meade came in for the Huskies to pitch the final inning and record the save. 
Irish pitcher Missy Linn (7­
8) was battered in 1 1/3 innings, giving up two runs and five hits before being relieved by Staci Alford. Alford came in after Linn had given up the two runs in the second inning, and was able to blank the Huskies for the rest of the game, but the Irish bats could not produce. 
"They were just a decent hitting team," said Linn, "and I seemed to be off today." 
Added Boulac, "She (Missy) wasn't as sharp as she usually is, but Alford was able to shut them down for the rest of the game. We hit sharp, but their shortstop (Lori Reimer) made great plays." 
The Irish left four runners on base, and had chances to score opportunities. 

In the fifth inning, Andrea Keys singled and was sacrificed to second. Shortstop Ruth Kmak singled, and Michele Cline, running for Keys, was thrown.out at the plate. 
According to Boulac, the Irish bats faltered in the second game due to a change in batting order designed to give players a rest for today's doubleheader against Western Michigan at Kalamazoo. 
After that contest, the Irish will have a couple days to re­cover before they head out to another tournament. this time competing in the Creighton Invitational in Omaha, Nebraska. 
"The game against Western Michigan is looking to be good softball," said Boulac. "The Irish will have to step it up because of the back-to-hack doubleheaders. We're hoping for three out of four wins, and we plan to put our best foot forward." 

•Baseball 
team to face Purdue see page 14 

•Equestrian 
Club competes see page 13 

•Volleyball 
drops tough contest 


to Graceland see page 13 
•sMc softball sweeps Bethel see page 14 
returning lettermen on this year's squad. 
The Belles tied up their record for the season on Sunday against Bowling Green State University, whose record is 9-6 in Division I. Saint Mary's lost 6-3. 
The meet came down to sophomore Mary Cosgrove's match, who played second instead of third on Sunday, and the contest at the number-one doubles slot. 
Cosgrove split sets and then lost the third in a tie breaker, resulting in a 2-6, 6-4, 7-6 (7-4) setback. "Mary played so well," coach Jo-Ann Nester said. "Her match lasted three hours." 
The number-one doubles team consisted of senior Ellen Mayer and junior Natalie Kloepfer. Playing against Tisa Pacella and Melissa Seely-Brown, they split the first two sets before losing the third set and the match. 
In remaining singles play, Mayer lost to Carla 
see SMC I page 12 





