~--.-rw-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Saint Mary'S College
"'OTRE DAME•INOIANA 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

575 

458 

vote totals 

Seniors 
507 
I 

Huston 51.4% 
Auyer 48.6% 
vote totals 

The Observer/Eric Kreidler 

Student Senate tickets gear for coming elections 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL 
News Writer 
While the class officer elec­tions were concluded yesterday, the campaigns for next week's Student Senate elections were just getting underway. 
Nine candidates will be vying for the four on-campus senate seats that will be up for grabs on Monday, March 2. 
In District 1 (South Quad), Alumni Hall junior Dave Certo, the only incumbent senator running for re-election this 
year, will be defending his seat 
against  challenger  Tyler  
Farmer,  a  Morrissey  Hall  
freshman.  

Walsh Hall junior Catherine Danahy is running unopposed in the District 2 (God Quad) se­nate race, and will be automat­ically declared the winner of the election on Monday. 
Four candidates are running for the District 3 (North Quad) senate seat. Two of the candi­dates, Andrew DeLuca and John Rushkusky, are Ca-
see SENATE I page 6 

Williams to visit South Africa along with National Advisory Council to U.S. firms 


By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI 
News Writer 
With a referendum ap­proaching that could rede­fine the position of blacks in South Africa, Notre Dame's Associate Provost Father Oliver Williams hopes to find out how the U.S. can assist in this change when he visits the Republic of South Africa over the next three weeks. 

As a representative of the National Advisory Council to U.S. firms with operations in South Africa, Williams will accompany two other members of the Council. The three will meet with government and church officials as well as the leadership of the African National Council, Inkatha and the black labor movement. 
"In the past," said Williams, "the leaders have asked us to hold off on any new investments in the country." But at this year's annual meetings, his fifth, Williams anticipates the leaders to withdraw their request. 
"Nelson Mandela has al­ready said American com­panies may be able to invest as early as this summer," said Williams, who met with 

Father Oliver Williams 
Mandela at last year's meeting. For the time being, the African National Council has asked the U.S. not to help -at least not until the interim gov­ernment is in place that President de Clerk has proposed for the March 17 referendum. 
When Williams and the other representatives of the Council return to the U.S., they will prepare. a report which will be presented to major U.S. firms at a meet­ing in New York in April. 
In the past, according to Williams, the Council's assistance to U.S. firms has included advice and help in advancing the role of blacks in South Africa. "All we can do is advise," he said, "but in the past U.S. firms have been very cooperative with what is asked of them." 
"This year, with a major change in government 


Huston ticket wins senior election; Penilla ticket wins sophomore race 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL 
News Writer 
The ticket led by Joe Huston won last night's run-off for the senior class officer election, overcoming its second place finish in Monday's first round of balloting. 
Huston's ticket won 507 votes (51.4% of the vote) in the run­off, compared to the 4 79 votes (48.6%), for the opposing ticket led by Andrea Auyer. 
In the sophomore class run­off, the ticket led by Jim Pe­nilla, which finished first in Monday's voting, held on to de­feat the ticket led by Andrea Powers. The Penilla ticket re­ceived 575 votes (55.7%) while their opponents took 458 votes (44.3%). 
The results of the senior-class run-off were not confirmed until a recount of the ballots was completed shortly before 9 p.m., according to elections commissioner Travis Reindl. Reindl said the Auyer ticket requested the recount due to the close margin of the Huston ticket's victory. 
The elections committee also received several reports of dorms not keeping their polling places open for the entire four hours scheduled for balloting (11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 5 p.m. to 7 p.m). Reindl said that each 

House weighs proposed tax cut 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House on Wednesday buried a truncated version of President Bush's tax proposals while Democratic leaders scurried to find enough votes to pass a plan of their own. 
The 427-1 vote disposed of a bill that included all the short­and long-range tax changes Bush had recommended but none of the spending cuts he proposed to pay for them. The measure would have worsened the deficit by nearly $50 billion over five years. 
Democrats introduced the measure and forced the vote to draw attention to the unpopular 

imminent, we will probably be able to offer crash programs to the U.S. firms in hiring and training blacks," said Williams. "Right now there are very few blacks in business leadership positions, hopefully that will begin to change." 
Williams and the Council's representatives will also be looking for ways to support de Clerk in his efforts to restructure the country's government. "De Clerk has made a bold move and in this referendum he is looking for support," said Williams. "Hopefully we can find out how the U.S. can help reaffirm his efforts." 
Williams, author of "The Apartheid Crisis," was ap­pointed to attend the meet­ing with Melvin Miller, a Boston lawyer and trustee of Boston University, and Ned Munger, a professor at the California Institute of Technology. 
Also while in South Africa, Williams will address the first-ever meeting of the Notre Dame Club of South Africa on March 6 in Johannesburg. Nineteen members make up the charter membership of the club, which is the sixteenth outside of the United States. 
-
dorm's judicial board is re­sponsible for staffing it's dorm's polling place. 
He vowed to investigate boards accused of neglecting their responsibilities, and said he "would make an effort to see that such problems do not hap­pen in the future." 
Senior class president-elect Huston said a top priority of his administration will be to obtain greater input in the selection of the 1993 commencement speaker. He also said the administration would try to de­fray the costs of the senior formal by "organizing fund raisers and soliciting corporate 
see ELECTIONS I page 6 
miscellaneous tax increases Bush is calling for. Only Rep. Bill Orton, D-Utah, voted for the bill. 
That vote left the House with two alternatives to consider Thursday: 
-Bush's short-range plan, including a major reduction in capital-gains taxes, a $5,000 credit for some home buyers and a handful of other tax breaks designed to stimulate investment. It contains no gen­eral tax reduction. 
-A Democratic substitute, built around a wage earner's tax credit of up to $400 in each of the next two years. That tax cut would be financed by rais­ing income taxes on higher in­come earners. The aim is not to end the recession but to restore some fairness to the tax system, Democrats say. 
Neither plan is assured of approval. 
More than 50 of the 268 House Democrats were listed as undecided on the Democratic plan. With Republicans solidly opposed and at least two dozen Democrats already lost, Demo­cratic leaders acknowledged they had their work cut out for them. If all members vote, ap­
see TAXES I page 6 


The Observer/David Hungeling 


Signs of spring? 

Despite the groundhog's prediction of a late winter, tulips are starting to break through the soil outside of the Snite Museum of Art. 
I
r 

.-----------------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ -------­
Thursday, February 27, 1992 
House panel votes to reveal names of bad check writers 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A House ethics subcommittee has virtually agreed on a plan that would disclose names of members who routinely and repeatedly wrote rubber checks at the chamber's bank, panel members said Wednesday. But it is far from certain that the full House will approve the plan. 
One House source, speaking only on the condition of anonymity, said 30 or more names could fit the criteria for the subcommittee's list of the worst abusers. 
Several House sources said the number of lawmakers who wrote checks against insufficient funds could ex­ceed 300 although many did so infrequently. 
The six-member subcom­mittee has been meeting pri­vately to write a report on lawmakers' bad checks, with emphasis on repeated viola­
tors. The resolution that aU• thorized the inquiry also closed the members' bank, which imposed no financia~ penalty on lawmakers whose checks exceeded their account balances. . < • 

House members for montni! have dreaded the day when the ethics committee would place finishing touches on>~r plan to release the names of rubber check writers. 
There is general agteeml;int that such exposure could cost incumbents their seats and that Democrats-with a 268" 166 majority'-'-could be hurt more than Republicans. 
The six-member subcotn~ mittee; which has accumu­lated its account information using codes instead 9f melri.h hers' names, must now con~ vince the full ethics committee to accept its disclosure plan. 
The Observer is accepting applications for the paid position of: 
Design Editor 
This position coordinates computer layout and design. No computer experience is necessary. Evening and late night positions available. 
Those interested should contact Jeanne Blasi at 239-5303. 

The Observer page 3 
Elimination of Soviet nuclear weapons posing problems for scientists, ex erts 
LONDON (AP) -Scientists who spent their lives building better bombs or on arms con­trol have suddenly reversed gears and started debating the best way to get rid of a vast chunk of the Soviet arsenal without touching off a nuclear explosion. 
"We built these weapons to kill people -and the weapons may succeed in killing people whether we want them to or not," said Gary Milhollin, direc­tor of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control. 
Most Western experts want the weapons held by republics of the former Soviet Union dismantled as quickly as possi­ble, their key components crushed, and the hundreds of tons of uranium or plutonium from the warheads neutralized. But a few argue that it's safer to disable the weapons and keep them intact. 
The debate over nuclear arsenals built up over four decades of the Cold War comes at a time of mounting concern about nuclear mercenaries selling hard-to-track compo­nents or expertise to nations trying to build a bomb. Western experts put Iran, North Korea, Iraq, Libya, Pakistan and India at the top of the list of prospec­tive buyers. 
The unprecedented scale of the arsenals has also raised se­rious questions about contami­nation of air, water and soil from leaks of toxic plutonium and possible nuclear explo­sions. 
Underlying the debate is the vexing question of how the fi­nancially strapped nuclear re­publics can pay the cost of dis­
··:· 

Highly enriched uranium and plutonluin Much more uranium would be recovered than could be used in nuclear plants. Remainder could be diluted to make it useless for weapons ard then stored 
Source: Federation of American Scientists 

armament. 
Western experts estimate the Soviets have 34,000 nuclear warheads. Russian President Boris Yeltsin has said he wants to reduce the nuclear arsenal to 2,500 -which would mean the elimination of up to 31,500 warheads. 
That could take more than two decades because the Rus­sians have said they can only dismantle 1,500 a year. And even after all the weapons are taken apart, the Russians would still be left with 700 to 1,000 tons of weapons-grade uranium and 100 to 150 tons of radioactive, toxic and poten­tially explosive plutonium, ac­cording to a new estimate for the Stockholm Peace Research Institute. 
The United States, with 19,000 warheads, face similar problems: What should it do with up to 16,500 warheads that will be eliminated, and the 
API Alan Baseden 

estimated 600 tons of highTy enriched uranium and nearly 100 tons of plutonium that won't go away? 
The dismantling vs. disabling debate goes to the core of the safety, political and environ­mental issues. 
"I don't see any alternative to dismantlement. ... I think you're better off the further removed you are from an operational warhead," Thomas Cochran, senior staff scientist at the Na­tional Resources Defense Coun­cil in Washington, said in an in­terview. 
"It can be done with bilateral and multilateral safeguards to prevent diversion of material, and inventory control over ma­terial," said Cochran, who was part of an American delegation that visited Moscow in Decem­ber for discussions on warhead dismantlement. 


BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
LAST CHANCE!!! DON'T BE LEFT OUT OF THIS YEAR'S TOURNAMENT! Sign ups 4 · 7p.m. 
Thurs. Feb. Z7 Mon. Mar. z in the SUB Offiee Znd floor LaFortune 
2 Team Names and 2 Captains' names 
$5 

--~-~------------­
The Observer 
page 4 Thursday, February 27, 1992 
Leaders of seven nations gather for second drug summit 
1111111111-..
SAN ANTONIO (AP) -Presi­"Everybody does, including us." goals," said Colombia's Gaviria, dent Bush on Wednesday joined The two leaders made no whose government has battled Latin American leaders for a mention in their public com­the Medellin and Cali drug car­second drug summit and ments of criticisms that the Pe­tels. He said he would seek promised to "redouble our ef­ruvian military and police units clear commitments and goals 
Key transshipment point lor cocaine
forts" to choke off both U.S. are out of control, aiding drug for ending drug trafficking by 
seizures are up but there are allegationsdemand and foreign supply. traffickers and accepting bribes the year 2010. of corruption. Claims $130 billion worth 
Peru's president said those ef­to allow illegal narcotics The producing countries, with of drugs were intercepted in 1991. Also 
forts must include the infusion shipments to take off from economies significantly depen­grows and exports large amounts of marijuana to the U.S.
of more U.S. money. military-controlled airports. dent on the drug trade, have 
JIT]l;r:mm~
"We're going to get maximum U.S. officials give Fujimori fought the narcotics war with cooperaticm," Bush said as he credit for being more commit­varying degrees of success. opened a meeting with ted to the drug war than his Colombia for instance has President Alberto Fujimori of predecessor, Alan Garcia. made inroads against leaders of Peru. the nation with the most Bush then met with Colom­the Medellin cartel, but the Cali limited progress in the war bia's president, Cesar Gaviria, cartel has emerged with new against drugs. before private sessions with prominence. 
But even as they and five Bolivia's Jaime Paz Zamora and A General Accounting Office 
The llow of drugs remains 
other leaders gathered, Bush Ecuador's Rodrigo Borja. survey last week said Peru had 
steady. Drug exports 
faced critidsm at home that his Bush and Mexican President made little progress due to cor­
multi-billion-dollar drug-fight­Carlos Salinas de Gortari will ruption, lack of control over ---··estimated 550-770 tons 
per year. U.S. miiRary aid, ing strategy has been ineffec­confer over breakfast Thursday government military units and lor drug interdiction, 
cocaine last year,tive, with U.S. cities still flooded before all the leaders gather for inability to control leftist in­but the biggest reached $61 million last year. T rallickers have 
with ample, cheap supplies. the formal summit sessions in surgent groups. seizure, 3.5 tons, 
diversified into poppy, the 
"We're going to build on ... the McNay Art Museum. The GAO cited human rights came in early Feb. 
raw material for heroin. 
Will ask President
the Cartagfma meeting," said The summit expands on the abuses against civilians as a 
Bush referring to the first drug 1990 summit in Cartagena, major problem in both Colom­summit two years ago. "We're Colombia, where Bush met with bia and Peru. going to redouble our efforts on the leaders of the Andean na­the demand side and on the tions of Colombia, Bolivia and But the Bush administration supply side." Peru, the principal drug pro­says the war against drugs is 
Fujimori, in a news confer­duction countries. moving forward. ence before his private session New at this summit are Mex­
coca. Guerrilla war has
with Bush, said his country ico, Ecuador and Venezuela -Bush said in California on 
complicated eradication. needs more money to give countries that have seen in­Tuesday night that while "we Police destroy crops I rom a 
farmers economic alternatives creasing involvement in illegal can't begin to claim total victory U.S.-sponsored jungle base, but corruption exists. U.S.
to the coca crop used to pro­drug trafficking as the Andean yet," drug interdictions were "at 
funding doesn1 appear to be
duce cocaine. He voiced hopes nations crack down. an all-time high" and 
reaching peasant farmers. 
that the United States would in­Bush welcomed the Latin adolescent cocaine use was cnmse its funding level for such leaders to his home state after a down 60 percent. programs. day of politicking in California. 
"Only 0.5 percent of the (U.S.) They are expected to produce However, a congressional re­budget earmarked for drug renewed commitments and port this week said Bush's fighting efforts is designated strategies for halting the flow of multibillion-dollar strategy to money for Peru, while 60 drugs to the United States, the curb Latin American cocaine API Alan Baseden percent of the world's coca" is chief consumer nation, and production has failed to stem drug imports, 'cocaine is as Bush has poured more than produced there, he said. "This helping poor farmers who grow the illegal drug shipments to cheap, as potent and as readily $1 billion in military and eco­is paradoxical." coca leaves for cocaine to con­this country. available on American streets nomic aid into the three Andean 
During a photo session with vert to other crops. as ever," said the report issued nations and requested almost Bush, Fujimori was asked if he "Our governments must Despite the 700 percent in­by Rep. Charles Schumer, 0-$480 million more for next year. needed more money. "Oh sure," commit themselves to a clear crease in government spending N.Y., chairman of the House Ju­His overall drug budget has he quipped. Bush interjected, path of success, with precise over the last decade to stop diciary crime subcommittee. almost doubled to $12 billion. 

t r


L__________________~ 
The Observer 

Thursday, February 27, 1992 page 5 
Irish girl wins fight to seek abortion 
DUBLIN, Ireland (AP) -The Supreme Court cleared the way Wednesday for a 14-year-old girl to leave Ireland for an abortion, leaving divisive legal and political issues for another day. 
The ruling overturned the first attempt to prevent an Irish woman from seeking a legal abortion in another country. The case attracted international attention and reopened the debate over abortion, which is banned in Ireland by a constitu­tional amendment that won overwhelming support in a 1983 referendum. 
"From a humanitarian point of view I welcome the decision. It has been a sad and distressful case and I am glad that ev­erything is over," Prime Minis­ter Albert Reynolds told re­porters. 
The Supreme Court five jus­tices overturned a High Court order that had prevented the girl, who says she was raped and has threatened to kill her­self, from having an abortion or leaving the country. 
Opposition leaders, pro-choice groups and even the Roman Catholic Church welcomed the decision. But supporters of the right to an abortion stressed the court's written decision would indicate whether they would seek a new constitutional referendum or legislation. 
Chief Justice Thomas Finlay said the written judgment would be issued in a few days. 
"No girl or woman who is the victim of rape should ever again find herself and her family put on trial in such circumstances and suffer such barbaric treatment at the hands of the state," said Alan Shatter, justice spokesman for the main opposition party, Fine Gael. 
Shatter said the government should not assume that the de­cision "relieves it of its political responsibilities." 
Reynolds, who was in London for a meeting with British Prime Minister John Major, said he wanted to see the written decision before commenting on implications for future cases. 
It was not known whether the Supreme Court had decided that the High Court had over­stepped Irish law or had acted contrary to Ireland's commit­ments under European Com­munity treaties calling for free­dom of movement of citizens. 
About 4,000 Irish women have abortions in Britain each ar. 

Toad the Wet Sprocket 
with special guest Marvin Etzioni (formerly of Lone Justice) 
When: Monday, March 2nd Where: Theodore's Time: 8:00pm 
Tickets $6 in advance (w/ ND, SMC ID) $7 at door ON SALE NOW at LaFortune Info Desk 
Listen to WVFI and Win: Tickets: 3-5pm CD Album: 7-9pm CD Single: 9-1:45pm 

Pizza Hut is proud to support FIGHTING IRISH BASKETBALL 
Tonight at 7:30p.m. 

Notre Dame vs. Marquette 
and featuring 
THE PIZZA HUT FREE TUITION HALFTIME 
-----------.
2 Large : Cheese Pizzas ; $10.00 I 
............ I 
l!lml : 
:Uut~ . : 

Delivery/Carryout 1 & Dine-in I I 

SHOOT OUT 


r-----.,.,--,.-­
1 All You Lan r.at 
(win up to $2,000 towards your tuition) 
Notre Dame students only. Two students selected at random. 1 Next Pizza Hut Shoot-out: ND vs. Loyola Feb. 27 
:

We accept Papa John's and Domino's coupons 
1 


I
Dine-in at 

Delivery & Downtown 282·2543 : 
Carryout 
or Roseland. (US31 N) 1 

232-2499 277-2121 I 
I I I 


The Observer/David Hungeling 
Lotsa' pasta 
Pangborn sophomore Nick Trella samples the fare at last night's Italian dinner in South Dining Hall. 
Two students shot to death in New York high school 
NEW YORK (AP) -They played sports together, hung out together and took the same bus each morning from the bleak housing projects where they grew up. On Wednesday, Ian Moore and Tyrone Sinkler died together -shot in the same high school hallways where students remembered them talking and laughing. 
"They were always walking together as friends," said Mar­vin James, 17. 
"They always hung out to­gether and everybody knew it," 
Spaghetti $4.99 

Includes spaghetti, salad, &beverage 
Sunday llam-4pm 
~ 
:Out. 
Dine-in Only 

said Jermaine Smith, 15. 
Tyrone loved basketball. Ian loved baseball and football. Neither played in school, but family and friends from the East New York housing projects where they grew up two blocks apart said both boys were good athletes. 
Students were awaiting a visit by Mayor David Dinkins when the principal herded them into the auditorium and told them the boys were dead. 
She said Ian and another stu­dent had fought three months ago. The suspect apparently had a grudge that exploded Wednesday when he walked up and shot Ian and Tyrone with­out saying a word, authorities said. 
Serving the Notre Dame Community for Over 30 years 
2112 South Bend Ave. Appointments if desired 
272-6722 


:::. 
destlrlllol•. alewtl(n:l ~-
Cauncil TnMd 
1153 N. Daltlan ~~lhd loa
<l1icli!P. I -10 
311·951-GSIS 

(all For A Fr~~ 199~ Student Trav~l Catalog! 

page6 The Observer Thursday, February 27, 1992 

Taxes 
continued from page 1 
proval of either plan would re­quire 218 votes. 
Meantime, Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, who chairs the Senate Finance Committee, said the bill he will ask the committee to approve next week will -like the House Democrats' proposal -calls for higher taxes on the well-to-do. This will be done by raising the top income tax rate above the current 31 percent and im­posing a surtax on taxable in­comes above $1 million. 
Money raised would pay for a new tax credit for families with children, with most of the bene­fits going to those broadly identified as the middle class. 
Bush has said repeatedly that he would veto any such tax in­crease. That resolve and Democrats' insistence that higher-income people pay more will make it difficult to enact any major tax changes this year. 
Bentsen said his plan also would include some kind of a capital-gains tax cut on in­vestment income, but appar­ently nothing like the broad re­duction demanded by Bush. 
Also, Bentsen said, his bill will include some of the invest­ment incentives recommended by Bush, expanded Individual Retirement Accounts, repeal of at least part of the new luxury tax, and tax credits to help provide access to health care. 
Similar provisions -but not the health credits -are in­cluded in the House bill, which was written by Democrats. 
House Democrats defended their plan as a way to restore 

Elections 
continued from page 1 
sponsors." 
Sophomore class president­elect Penilla said his adminis­tration will concentrate on or­ganizing social events, includ­ing a sophomore formal and a JPW escape to Chicago. He also 
some fairness to the tax laws ­to reverse some of the gains reaped by higher-income people in the 1980s and transfer some benefits to the middle class. 
"After 12 years of Republican class warfare against struggling American families, we join middle-income families in a fight for fairness, a fight for equity and a fight for growth," said Majority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo. 
"No more gimmicks; no more tax cuts for the wealthy; no more broken promises," said Democratic Whip David Bonior of Michigan. "The middle class have waited too long." 
Republicans portrayed the bill as offering nothing to stimulate the economy but just the latest effort by Democrats to raise taxes to finance more spending. 
Some Democrats were reluc­tant to line up behind their party's bill because it includes a capital-gains tax reduction that, critics say, would be just as much a windfall for the wealthy in the long run as would Bush's proposal. 
Other Democrats are upset at the idea of voting for an elec­tion-year tax increase -even if it would apply only to couples making more than about $185,000 a year and single people making more than $105,000. 
The Democratic plan, in addi­tion to the tax credit for wage earners, higher taxes on the well-off and a capital-gains tax cut, includes incentives for businesses to buy machinery this year; special tax relief for real estate investors; penalty­free Individual Retirement Ac­count withdrawals to buy a home or pay medical and edu­cation expenses. 
said the officers would "seek out community "service opportunities" for sophomores. 
Besides Huston, the officers of the Class of 1993 will be; Kelly Fizpatrick (vice-president), Anne Marie Krauza (secretary), and Joe Burke (treasurer). 
Penilla's fellow officers for the Class of 1995 will be; Andrea Ricker (vice-president). Amy Conolly (secretary), and Michael LaMena (treasurer). 



R;~Yeli~erii;t~" 
Super Saver prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 
(219)277-1291
51400 31 North 

Phone answered 24 hrs.
South Bend, IN 46637 

is accepting applications for the paid positions of Assistant Ad Design 
Manager and Ad Designer. Those interested should be familiar with the Macintosh and have design skills. Contact Kevin Hardman at 239-5305 if any questions. 
Senate 
continued from page 1 

vanaugh Hall freshmen. The other candidates are sopho­mores Timothy Callahan of Keenan Hall and Alan Nic­gorski of Stanford Hall. 
In the District 4 (Mod Quad) contest, Planner Hall junior Jacob Frost will go up against Grace Hall junior David Baker. 
Also on Monday, six juniors making up three two-person tickets will be competing to represent off-campus students in the senate. 
One ticket will pair Keith McKeon, who currently lives in Grace Hall, with Tom Pitstick of Fisher Hall. A second ticket will consist of Kevin Mc­Donough and Paul Gimber, two current Keenan Hall residents. The final ticket will include St. Edward's Hall resident George Smith and off-campus resident Michael Goodwin. 
Smith, Goodwin, and Certo all ran in the student body presidential election earlier year. The combined Smith/Goodwin ticket finished second in that election, wile Certo's ticket, which included St. Edward's Hall junior Matthew Bomberger, placed third. 
All undergraduate students, including graduating seniors, are eligible to vote in Monday's election. 
Current off-campus students, as well as students who have declared they will live off-cam­pus next year, can vote in LaFortune Hall from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. and in the dining halls from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. All other students can vote in their dorms form 11 a.m. to 1 
p.m. and from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
Run-off elections, if neces­sary, will be held on Wednes­day, March 4. 



Money
for 


'Ere
a 
Our Spring Break Loan is back by popular demand 
(probably because It's easier than getting money from your parents!) 
• 
Only 12% APR, fixed rate 

• 
$1 00 minimum, $500 maximum loan amount 

• 
Deferred Payments 

• 
Students with good credit or no credit qualify 


No co-signer Is needed. Bring in your student I.D. 
G 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 • Independent of the University 
~tl Esll~ ~~ ~
i Spanish Mass ~ 
Todos Estan lnvitados All Are Welcome 
Sunday, March 1 
10:00 a.m. 


Breen-Phillips Chapel 
Celebrante Padre Ted Weber, C.S.C. 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry Office of Minority Affairs 
~­
0MPUS MINISTRY 

Thursday, February 27, 1992 The Observer page 7 

Three soldiers killed as troops riot at Baikonur Space Center 
Armenians and Azerbaijanis agree to three-day cease-fire 
MOSCOW (AP) -Armenians 
and Azerbaijanis battling for control of a disputed region agreed to a three-day cease­fire, the independent news agency Interfax reported Wednesday. 
The report, which could not be confirmed immediately, came a few hours after Azer­baijan claimed Armenian mili­tants killed 100 people and wounded 250 in capturing a town in Nagorno-Karabakh, an Armenian enclave inside Azer­baijan. Armenia denied the toll was that high, but gave no ca­sualty figures of its own. Azer­baijani forces also were re­ported attacking Armenian 

targets. AP 
The 4-year-old fight over the predominantly Christian Arme­humanitarian plan to halt the nian enclave that has been conflict. French government ruled by Muslim Azerbaijan spokesman Jack Lang said the since 1923 has escalated into plan would be presented to the the bloodiest dispute in the European Community. former Soviet Union. Several Both sides reported attacks previous attempts to resolve the on Wednesday. conflict peacefully have fallen Azerbaijan claimed Armeni­through. ans attacked the Azerbaijani 
The truce reported by Inter­town of Khodzhaly before dawn fax followed intensive peace­and captured it. It said about keeping efforts by Iran's foreign 100 people were dead, 250 minister, Ali Akbar Velayati. wounded and 300 missing. 
Interfax said the cease-fire Armenia denied the claim, was announced by the press saying the residents of the town service of Azerbaijan's presi­were evacuated. It did not say dent, Ayaz Mutalibov. how many people died in the 
Azerbaijani officials could not battle. be reached immediately to con­It was impossible to indepen­firm the report. Armenia's mis­dently verify either report. Both sion in Moscow told The Asso­sides have issued inflated casu­ciated Press it had no informa­alty reports in the past. tion about a cease-fire. If Azerbaijan's claim were 
Interfax said the truce was to true, the attack would be the begin at 9 a.m. Thursday and worst yet. More than 1,000 run through the same time on people have died since 1988 in Sunday. the struggle over Nagorno­
Velayati arrived in Azerbaijan Karabakh. on Monday in an attempt to mediate a truce, but so far has An Armenian national secu­been unable to visit Nagorno­rity official, Aram Avayan, said Karabakh because of the fight­Azerbaijanis fired 37 rockets ing there. into Nagorno-Karabakh's ad­
Also on Wednesday, France ministrative capital, proposed an emergency inter­Stepanakert, Tuesday and national peace-keeping and Wednesday. 
MOSCOW (AP) -Hundreds of construction troops rioted at Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan this week after complaining of "inhuman treatment" by their superiors, news services said Wednesday. Three soldiers were reported burned to death. 
The rioters at Baikonur, the main launching site for Soviet cosmonauts, commandeered 17 trucks, set fire to four bar­racks and stole 35,000 rubles from a cashier's office, the In­terfax news agency and com­monwealth television reported. The victims were found inside one barracks. 
Police forces and regular army troops were called in to try to stop the mutineers from marching on the nearby city of Leninsk, where space center officials live. But the "hungry and unwashed soldiers" reached the city to present their grievances, the TV reported. They dispersed after authorities gave them food and their allowances and met some of their demands. 
The TV said space-related operations were not affected by the uprising Monday and Tuesday at Baikonur, about 1,500 miles southeast of Moscow. 
Increasing signs of discon­tent have surfaced in the armed services over pay, working conditions and the disintegration of the Soviet Union. Military officials say desertions are increasing. 
In addition, Russian military authorities have been dis­cussing a possible deep cut in the ranks of the construction corps, considered the lowest rung in the military service. 
Baikonur's space program has also been in turmoil be­cause of political and eco­
nomic disputes. Cosmonaut Sergei Krikalev, who blasted into space on May 18 for what was supposed to be a three­month mission, is still circling the globe aboard space station Mir. Krikalev and Alexander Volkov are scheduled to return next month. 
A March 17 launch from Baikonur will carry a German and Russian cosmonauts to the Mir. The Russians will stay be­hind, replacing Krikalev and Volkov. 
A special government com­mission set up after the riots at Baikonur agreed to let ill sol­diers resign, discharged six months early all soldiers who had already served 1 1/2 years, and promised a 10-day leave for all soldiers. The commission also promised to improve supplies of food and cigarettes, Interfax said. 

You loved McDonald's® last 2 for 2 special . . . so get ready; here comes another one! Starting Friday; February 28, get two Bacon Egg and Cheese biscuits during breakfast hours or two Quarter Pounder® with Cheese sandwiches* during regular hours for $2.00! 

1\vailable for a limited time only at participating northern Indiana McDonald's. Plus tax. prices may vary. Current prices and participation subject to independent operator decision. 
What you want is what you get.™ 
·weight before cooking 4 oz. (113.4 grams) 
©1992 McDonald's Corporation 


Real Estate AnalystProgram 
CHOOSE YOUR TRACK TO AN MBA! 
Want som~ rock-solid commercial real estate experience? Then cons1der one of two great opportunities with THE PRUDENTIAL, the nation's largest real estate investor. 
We're.looking for energetic, ambitious BAs and BSs for the followmg Real Estate Analyst positions: 
• Valuations Analyst· indi~iduals seeking two years of work expenence before apply1ng to top business schools in 1994· and, · 
• 0 erations Anal st · individuals planning a full-time career w 1 e pursu1ng t e1r MBA on an evening/part time basis. 
To qualify, you ne~d a B+ or bett~r undergraduate GPA and a strong mathematical apt1tude. An Intensive training program Will help prep~re you for real estate modeling andlinancial evaluation ass1gnments. 
Both programs provide outstanding on-the-job training, ~xpenence, and exposure to real estate markets and top mve~tment profes~1onals. The Prudential offers attractive start1ng salanes w1th comprehensive benefits. 
To app~y. send your resume and a copy of your college transcnpt by March 6, 1992 to: THE PRUDENTIAL REALTY GROUP 
Chicago Realty Group Office Prudential Plaza Suite 1300-13th Floor Chicago, IL 60601 ATTN: VAWATIONS ANALYST or 
OPERATIONS ANALYST (PLEASE SPECIFY) ATTN: Shelley Pottridge 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

The Prudential Realty Group 
ThePrudentaal ~ 
--------------~­
-----~-------~--------------­

Business 
Thursday, February 27, 1992 page 8 

Netzer discusses property taxes 
By COLLEEN CONLEY Since the 1980s, however, the owners, public utilities and 
Business Writer United States has witnessed transportation authorities are "drastic reductions" in federal frequently favored in property and state aid to local govern­tax exemptions, according to 
The legal base for taxation ment, according to Netzer. Ad­Netzer, to the point where most has continued to narrow over ditionally, the type of adminis­economic ventures of the 1970s the past 20 years, Dick Netzer, tration at the local level has and 1980s were marked by
professor of economics at New significant bearing on the role "some degree of property tax York University, explained of property tax, Nezter said, incentive as a condition of Wednesday. and this determines how great launching the project." 
Tracing the economic impor­a role the tax will play in rais­A method which has been tance of property tax through­ing revenue. employed to reduce the scale of out the 20th century, Netzer, School district governments the property tax is ceilings on who has served as editor of "remain very heavily dependent tax rates, which "limit the abil­
three national finance journals, on the property tax," whereas ity of local governments to ex­addressed students and faculty county and municipal govern­ploit all taxable property," Net­on both the historical and fu­ments are less dependent be­zer said, citing such legislation 
ture significance of the property cause they attract much state such as the 1978 Proposition 13 tax. and federal aid, Netzer said. in California and the 1980 
Analyzing trends in property Regional disparities are also Proposition 2 1/2 in Mas­tax, Netzer said the tax prior to part of the property tax ques­sachusetts. the Great Depression was tion, Netzer said. While the In effect, the economic groups providing two-thirds of total United States mean for property most likely to reap the benefits state and local tax revenue. A tax revenue as percent of total of tax ceilings will be in the 
fluctuation in this trend has led tax revenue is 30 percent, high and low income brackets, to a decline in the tax's impor­Midwesterners are subject to a Netzer said. tance, and it now accounts for 33 percent rate and Southern­Citing a "U-shaped curve" only one-quarter of total tax ers a 27 percent rate. model which concentrates revenue, according to Netzer. Even in neighboring states, benefits at upper and lower 
Along with its decrease in to­according to Netzer, wide vari­levels, Netzer indicated that the 
tal portion of tax revenue, the ances may exist. Oregon resi­burden will shift to the middle property tax has also become dents pay twice the property class, who will suffer the most less of a burden on personal in­tax of Washington residents, from the heavier sales taxes come since the Depression. In Netzer said, noting that "it is which will be instituted to com­1940, the tax was figured to be difficult to explain why adjacent pensate for the reduced prop­a 5.4 percent drain on income states should differ so much." erty taxes. as opposed to a 3.1 percent Other factors which would In spite of frequent specula­drain in 1989, Netzer said. account for the overall decline tion about the fading durability 
To explain this, Netzer said in the tax's importance include of the tax, Netzer said it is un­that, in the wake of the Depres­tax incentives which have re­likely to beeome the "all but sion, state governments were moved "big chunks of property forgotten relic" that some crit­expected to intervene and pro­from the tax base." In the ics forecast. While Nezter did vide assistance due to the col­1970s and 1980s, legislation predict a "reduced reliance on lapse of local revenues. During was introduced which could ex­property tax", he concluded by the 1960s, Netzer continued, empt business machinery and stating that he did not "see 
there was again a sharp rise in inventory from property taxa­!other prospects] leading to the state and federal aid to local tion, Netzer said. wholesale replacement of prop­beneficiaries. Besides businesses, farm erty tax." 
GM may face nationwide strike because of plant closings 
DETHOIT (AP) -A national "A sword not used grows lington, Texas, agreed to con­GM Chairman Robert Stempel plants go," said Charles Perry, strike at General Motors Corp. rusty," he said Wednesday. sider to get an edge in competi­said Monday the willingness of assistant professor of (GM) is one possible scenario UAW Vice President Stephen tion with GM's Willow Run individual plants to consider management and industrial re­this spring as the United Auto Yokich said Tuesday the world's assembly plant near Ypsilanti, work-rule changes, such as the lations at The Wharton School Workers (UAW) union tries to largest automaker is "playing Mich. GM said in December number of crews and shifts, of the University of Pennsylva­keep from playing favorites with fire" if it follows through one of the two would close, would be used to determine the nia in Philadelphia. while blocking its locals from on plans to seek work rule consolidating work in the other. seven more operations to be "It's very tough for them to eutting their own deals with changes from UAW locals on a There was no talk of work­closed. play off one against the other, GM. plant-by-plant basis. rule concessions at the Willow Yokich said it's clear GM used and it's a foregone conelusion 
"We might be headed to a McAlinden said GM's actions Run plant, which makes many a form of "whipsawing" -that GM is going to be smaller." general strike," said Sean have all but bypassed the inter­of the same rear-wheel drive playing one plant off against McAiinden, a former UAW national union, leaving it large cars assembled at the Ar­another -to win the Arlington Yokich previously has ap­member now a research scien­"nothing to lose" by striking. lington plant. On Monday, Wil­workers' agreement to consider proved local concessions at tist with the Ollice for the Study Yokich said Tuesday the in­low Run was one of 12 GM op­work-rule changes. plants in Wisconsin and Ohio to of Automotive Transportation at ternational will not approve any erations the company said "I think the international has help GM be more productive, the University of Michigan. concessions its local in Ar-would be cut by 1995. to disassociate itself from which but not to close plants. 
Kokomo Increased factory orders radio plant spark hopes for recovery 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Factory ing to an economic rebound. orders for durable goods rose "I see robins on the lawn in
will close 
1.5 percent in January, the the economy now," said Secre­
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Radio government said Wednesday in tary of the Treasury Nicholas a report seen as a fresh evi­Brady in a speech to the Na­
assembly at Delco Electronics' 
dence the once-stalled tional Association of Business
horne base of Kokomo, Ind. will 
economic recovery is starting to Economists.
cease by the end of 1993 as the 
pick up. Brady cited increased pur­
(;eneral Motors Corp. (GM) di­Analysts also pointed to the chases of tires and light bulbsvision shifts remaining produc­
tion to Mexico, a spokeswoman recent increases in retail sales, as signs that discretionary including automobiles, and spending was picking up. 
said Wednesday. 
growing housing activity among "I went out last weekend and other signs of a slowly bought two new tires," he said,
No jobs will be lost in 
Kokomo since Delco is shifting improving economy. adding that many Americans workers to the production of "We're now starting to see the likely would do the same thing inflatable air bag controls, but resumption of the recovery, because they have put ofl' such which may have started in the purchases and, now, "this
a union official said that 
doesn't make the approaching spring a year ago and stalled country's tires are bald." out in the fall," said economist But many analysts caution
end of an era that dates to 
1936 any less painful. Lynn Reaser of First Interstate that economic growth will be Bancorp in Los Angeles. below-average and will not re­"We're seeing the first glim­sult in any substantive im­
"The radio of the future is now a dead product," said Fred mers of a revival in January," provement in employment for concurred Stephen Roach, an months.
Gross of Local 292 of the 
United Auto Workers (UAW), economist with Morgan Stanley Orders for durable goQds ­& Co. in New York. "It's another items such as cars and
whieh shut down GM auto 
tentative sign of an improved computers expected to last atplants across the nation when economic outlook in 1992." least three years -totaled ait struck for six days in 1986 Secretary of the Treasury Nicholas Brady Wednesday cited a 1.5 
The Bush administration also seasonally adjusted $119.6
over the transfer of radio pro­increase in factory orders for durable goods last January as an 
hailed the January increase as billion January, aceording to theduetion to Mexico. 
indicator that the economy is rebounding. 
one of several indicators point-Commerce Department report. 



Viewpoint 
Thursday, February 27, 1992 page 9 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ......•................ Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .•................ Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ......••••.•... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor .............•.•..•. John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letter, is encouraged. 

The future for our generation exists today 
"... so don't fear. if you hear. a foreign sound in your earl it's  girl dressed in a soiled tee-shirt, grass skirt, and bare-feet  Guy Loranger  the Sixties foolishly lies in the hippy chic of Birkenstock san­ ".. .and though the rules of the road have been lodged, it's  
alright, rna, i'm only sighing . . .. I walked, incredulously dazed, among the thousands of  approached me with a plate of ripe fruit. "Care for an electric cherry," she said. The look on her face as I accepted the gen­ It's a Dogma Eat Dogma World Our current President is quite realistically a failure, but he'll  dals, long shaggy hair, and tie­dyed fashion statements. To others, however, the era may take on more significance. It  only people's games, you gotta dodge/ it's alright, rna, i can make it ..."  
pilgrims who had gathered at Deer Creek to witness "the greatest show on Earth," a Grateful Dead concert. As the June sun shined its heated rays of the season upon us, I realized the powerful serenity of the "Dead Head" counterculture that I had ventured into southern Indiana to experience.  erous offer has ever since aroused a deep envy within me for the exhilarating inner-peace in which nomadic Dead Heads live. Their vision of freedom in togetherness, music, and dance -an Epiphany reached with each concert -forced me to question myself on where else  probably get reelected because no Democratic shmuck appears to offer anything better (oh, where have you gone Mario Cuomo, our nation turns it lonely eyes to you). A hall rector tears down an approved student government campaign sign, but no one protests and their eyes merely  could mean that they wish to emulate its cultural revolution, the excitement of searching for changes in a dull world. Jerry Garcia, the lead singer of the Grateful Dead stated in a recent Rolling Stone interview, "I can't believe it's just because they're [the 16 and 17 year olds whom he often sees among his  The post-Woodstock children must be the bold, new in­novators and makers of positive change in the world. We must eliminate all the negativism, pettiness, and cliche facets of our society that do exist and may eventually cause irreversible damage.  
Children of all ages frolicked about in their own grooved-out and maniacal dances: some  this sort of pure, crackling ex­citement exists today: in my world, my society, my col­ turn to other posters and other candidates. Even our entertainment indus­ concert crowds] interested in picking up on the Sixties, which they missed. Come on, hey, the  Enlarge the narrow scope of choice left open (or closed) to us. Create a new  
with colorful beads and bracelets to offer for sale (the rate of exchange being anything from pennies to cigarettes); others beat out musical melodies on their worn-out drums, tambourines, or ten­stringed twelve string guitars; while the rest either begged for spare change (funds for the next tour stop pilgrimage) or  lege...in my generation? "...and though the masters, make the rules, for the wise men, and the fools/ well, i got nothin ', rna, to live up to . .. " The post-Woodstock children born in the aloof goofiness of the Seventies, nurtured on the excesses of the Eighties, and  try cannot find anything more creative to churn out assembly line style to its listless audience, the only innovations being newer forms of half-nudity and destructive violence. But never mind, the people will still con­tinue to go as long as they have bills left in their pockets that the recession hasn't taken from them -their excuse, "Well,  Sixties were fun, but s-t, it's fun being young, you know, no­body really misses out on that." "So what is it about the Nineties in America? There must be a dearth of fun out there in America. Or adventure. Maybe that's it, maybe we're just one of the last adventures in America. I don't know."  consciousness, based on humanism, as we stop trying to prove our humanism to older generations whose natural re­sistance to change has so long prevailed. Like my English teacher in high school once said to me, "Your generation is nothing but a watered-down version of the Lost Decade who serves no  
shared the same awe as I did on this afternoon for the spec­tacular people around me. I indulged myself for a few more hours in this pleasant en­vironment of "Shakedown Street" (the term Dead Heads use for the mobile merchants' square at concert grounds), and then decided to wait beneath a tree where my friends were to meet me upon completion of their own business venture, selling "cosmic veggie love bagels" of cream cheese, cu­cumber slices, and alfalfa. The sun, to my astonishment, had already begun to set, and thus a frenzied crowd formed a path into the arena to see the band. In the midst of this madness, a  now forced to reach the peak of our development in the bland­ness of the recession-flavored early Nineties. The excitement seems gone from what society can offer our young lives: the neighborhood is threatened by crime, sex is no longer considered natural and pure but risky and dangerous, the radio is filled with one sampling-styled neofunkadelic ultra hip hop drum machine beat tune after another, drugs are no longer considered means of meditation but numbing escapes from a bleak world, and the current fad is to just simply accept the status quo in nearly all artistic, political and social facets of our world (and on campus).  there's nothing else going on tonight." The result is a bored gener­ation, but one that (in all actu­ality) cannot find any other al­ternative routes in which to take their lives, locked into the vicious cycle of "the rat race choir." However, there is an undeniable trend of some mem­bers of our generation who have fascinated themselves with the social, artistic, and political trends of a youth countercul­ture of an earlier era, the Sixties. They are the neo-hip­pies, "granolas," throwbacks to an era of unprecedented re­forms that seem so long lost in the Nineties. To many, their intrigue with  However, as Jerry points out so gratefully, our generation cannot be foolish enough to wish for another Sixties. This era preceded us, and many of its changes and overall excitement seem to have been lost along the way to our present times, but that does not necessarily mean despair for our generation. There is a plethora of areas which demand our attention and action: the environment, government elections, censorship of art and music, and the somewhat frightening technological advances which give an air of dehumanization to our generation.  other purpose but to make money and to finish off the death of the planet." I can't change his views, but I can spit out the rotten fruits of hope he has offered to me, and instead I'll savor the gifts of a barefoot girl lost somewhere in a southern Indiana summer night. Today may seem bleak, but tomorrow things are gonna be better. Don't pity our genera­tion, as we won't pity ourselves, "it's alright, rna, [we're] only bleeding." Guy Loranger is a freshman in the College of Arts and Letters and a Viewpoint Copy Editor.  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  

7HATCOUU? 
7HATIVAS

HAV&elieN 
YOU, SON. 

'We carry with us the wonders 
Mf., PAO! 
I 
we seek without us.' 
\ 
Sir Thomas Browne 
Stuck inside a mobile? submit: 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
[ 
r 
r 
r 
~~---~----------------­
Viewpoint
page 10 Thursday, February 27, 1992 

Enlightenment and simple changes define success 
Last year at this time, I was very ready to leave gray and eold South Bend and start a year of volunteer work as I wanted to spend a year in direct service to the poor. 
After graduating from Notre Dame, I joined the Franciscan Volunteer Ministry (FVM). a program which enables lay men and women to work with the poor in Boston, Philadelphia or Buffalo. 
The program does not just fo­cus on ministering to the poor, however, but also on the spiri­tuality, community and simple living of its volunteers. They live together, set aside time for prayer and receive a small monthly stipend. Not only did I think I would be able to help change the situations of the needy by the great work I would do, but I would also fig­ure out who I wanted to work with in a more formal way later on and would be rid of lake ef­fect weather. 
Well, going by these old goals, I cannot consider the first six months of my term successful. Despite my apparent failure, however, this time has con­tained some of the best experi­ences of my life. I have found that indeed I am having a suc­cessful year according to a new and more enlightened definition of success. 
In my Buffalo site of the FVM, I have evening and overnight shifts at a homeless shelter, where I also spend one day a week doing laundry, cleaning, and helping out with office work. At a shelter for refugees, I organize activities for the children who are waiting to en­ter Canada with their families. 
I also visit the elderly in my parish. teach ceo and have 
Sally Greene 
Guest Columnist 

even had some contact with ex­offenders. Success no longer requires me to change people's lives but merely to help them live and maybe lessen one or two specific problems they have. 
My tasks are important and meaningful simply because they enable me to touch other people and fill a need for them even if the work does not change their situations. 
My year's success also no longer hinges on what I do but also focuses on what I learn. After a few weeks as a volun­teer, I started to describe myself as a sponge who was just soaking up the knowledge and experiences of others. 
My teachers include the friars and Franciscan sisters as well as many of the elderly I visit, the lay men and women I work with at the shelters, my housemates and even the ex­offenders. These people do not tell me how to live my life, but share their own experiences and what they have learned from them. 
My year can also be consid­ered a success simply because I have come to see how blessed I am. I was given so many re­sources and so much support as I grew up, not because I de­served it, but simply because of God's love. Just becoming more aware of God's love for me is enough to make this year very worthwhile. 
The fun I have also adds so much. Living on a very limited income has made me try so many new activities, as I no longer just turn on the televi­sion or pop a video into the VCR. I have spent some evenings learning how to folk dance and have a new appreciation for board games and good conversation. Thanks to Buffalo's $1.50 movie theaters, I never have even paid full price for a movie. 
Unfortunately, however, I still do not have any idea of who I want to work with next year. Unfortunately, also, Buffalo's winters are just as cold and gray as South Bend's. 
Right now, however, I am happy living with my confusion over the future, and I am finding that Buffalo has a lot to offer despite its weather. I have even granted a new love for wool afghans! 
Sally Greene is a member of the Franciscan Volunteer Ministry and lives in Buffalo, New York. 

Stone's 'J FK' boldly awakens America's suspicions 
What took place in less than seven seconds in Dallas, Texas on November 22, 1963 has been critically analyzed for nearly three decades. Many of those who were of age to remember the assassination of John F. Kennedy have formulatnd an opinion on what really happennd on that fateful day in November. Oscar winner and controversial writer/dirnctor Oliver Stone is no different. 
For the last 28 years, authors, researchers. filmmakers, and critics have pursued leads, ana­lyzed evidence, interviewed wit­nesses, and studied acoustics, photography. and forensic medicine. Together, they have produced more than 500 books about the assassination and countless television documen­taries, university courses, pub­lie lectures, and newsletters. 
Stone's new movie "JFK" may be the greatest contribution on the assassination because it will certainly awaken all of the conspiracy buffs with an "I told you so." lie otTers up a solution to the most vexing crime in the history of the Unites States: the 
assassination of John F. Kennedy. 
According to Stone, if you solve that riddle, you will discover why America plunged so deeply into Viet Nam. This $40 million, three hour epic is geared to destroy the often dis­puted official conclusion of the Warren Commission that Lee Harvey Oswald, acting alone, fired three shots from the southeast corner of the sixth floor of the Texas School Book Depository. 
Basing the plot largely on Stone's acceptance of a con­spiracy case brought against a New Orleans based business­man by then district attorney Jim Garrison, "JFK" stays on a predictable path. Those who followed and believed the Garrison investigation in 1969, regardless of its outcome, will be happy to know that Stone includes the numerous conspir­acy theories that existed at that time. 
The movie boldly tells the story that President Kennedy was assassinated in a "coup d'etat" conspiracy by the CIA. Defense Department, FBI, 
James Ward 
Guest Columnist 

Justice Department. and Dallas Police Department. To bring research up to the present time, Stone also relied heavily upon the work of Dallas based re­searcher Jim Marrs whose book "Crossfire: The Plot That Killed Kennedy" is widely accepted as critical reading material. 
While there is fiction ineluded in the movie, as shown on the attached "Fact or Fiction" pa­per, it was strikingly dear that Stone had done his homework. Filmed on location in Dallas, Washington, and New Orleans, 120 hours of film were edited down to three. 
It incorporates actual film footage of the assassination and horrifying pictures of Kennedy's dead body. For history buffs, the recreation of the assassination site in Dealy Plaza is the best ever done by a filmmaker. 
It seems that 1963 remains frozen in time and that "America's family" remains in­destructibly glamorous. The main reason is that its chief tragedy remains, like its victim, larger than life and larger than death. Would we care as much if he had been less handsome'? If she had been less beautiful'? If they hadn't had the children'? 
Would we feel at all the same if the press hadn't been so deferential, so polite, so selective'? If he had been killed at 60 or 65 instead of at age 46'? If he had not been killed, but had died of old age'? 
With the loss of Kennedy we lost a son and brother, and, as with all premature, unnatural deaths, the grief was simply deeper, the disbelief more pro­found. What was killed in Dallas was not only the President but the promise; the heart of the Kennedy legend is what might have been. 
Few can deny the mood of the nation changed positively when Kennedy moved into the White House. Few can also deny that things fell apart in America after the assassination. We, as a nation, were also forced to grow up, perhaps too quickly for our time. 
Being true to his label, Stone 
is a man of the 1960s. lie will transform you from Camelot to turbulent times. lie has given us an impressive east for this transformation that includes Kevin Costner who portrays Jim Garrison, Jack Lemmon, Walter Matthau, Donald Sutherland, Joe Pesei, Gary Oldman. Tommy Lee Jones, John Candy, Ed Asner, Kevin Bacon, Sally .Kirkland. and Sissy Spacek. Even Jim Garrison makes an appearance as Chief Justice 
Earl Warren. 
Millions of Americans remain 
profoundly suspicious of the 
facts and motives of the partic­
ipants connected with the as­
sassination. Belief and trust 
have long been part of the 
problem. One's view of the 
events in Dallas in 1963 has 
depended upon whom one 
chooses to believe. 
"JFK" is a pro-conspiracy film 
and for the American people, it 
has the scary potential of 
becoming the version of history 
that "they" wish to accept. 

James Ward is a practicing CPA in South Bend and Accounting Professor at Notre Dame. 
Campaign of violence in Northern Ireland requires critical eye 
Dear Editor: 
After having spent the greater part of last week preparing for February 17th's Northern Ire­land Awareness Group meeting, I must admit being surprised by Dennis Prickett's letter of February 20. While I agree that the situation in the six counties of northeast Ireland is misun­derstood, I fail to see how Mr. Prickett's misinformation can rnmcdy the matter. 
First of all, the "significant problems" in the North are not "due to religious differences." The six counties' problems are rather the result of years of systematic economic and politi­cal discrimination against those who would seek a unified Ire­land. The British government and the unionist forces in Northern Ireland like to describe to conflict in terms of religion-a religious conl1ict ean be chalked up to emotion, thereby relieving all involved parties from taking responsibility for their actions and undertaking an honest search for answer's to the North's political and economic injustices. 
True, the unemployment rate from 1985 to 1987 was 14 per­cent-for Protestants, that is. During the same period, Catholic unemployment stood at 36 percent, a ratio of 2.6 to 1. These figures are taken from the Second Report of the Northern Ireland Standing Advisory Commission on Human Rights, a government­appointed commission report ( June 1990). 
The Commission further states, "Catholics were significantly less likely to hold either professionaVmanagerial or other non-manual posts, with 5 percent of Catholics in the manageriaVprofessional sector compared to 11 percent of Protestants." The Commission suggested that the British government reduce Catholic unemployment ratios from 2.5 to 1.5 times those of Protestants, a recommendation ignored by the British. 
"Ordinary decent crime" may not be prevalent in the six counties, but that is small comfort in a land where soldiers and paramilitary groups stalk the streets, where discrimination is rampant and institutional, where political prisoners lack all but the most basic human rights. 
The six counties of Northern Ireland are a gerrymandered entity designed to ensure a small but permanent Protestant-unionist majority. Forty percent of the population lack the kind of employment rights that Americans take for granted. Young men and women (Catholic and Protestant) arrested for political crimes ean be convicted on the testimony of paid perjurers or on the basis of coerced confessions. 
Amnesty International, while deploring the actions of the IRA and other paramilitary groups, has condemned the terrible conditions in Northern Irish prisons and has reprimanded the British Army and other security forces for their heavy­handed tactics in interrogating prisoners. Sinn Fein, the legal political arm of the IRA, as well as the less radical Social Democratic Labour Party (SDLP), have pushed for continuing the talks on Northern Ireland; the British, however, have called off the talks until after the upcoming elections, for fear of losing the small but influential Northern Irish unionist vote. 
Despite what Mr. Prickett says, the situation in the six counties is bleak; there are, however, some glimmers of hope. The movement in Britain to remove the troops from this ravaged region is gaining momentum. All sides, Protestant and Catholic, republican, nationalist and unionist, seek an end to the fighting; but none will quit fighting until they are assured of their rights. 
Despite the fact that Joseph Patrick Thomas Doherty lost his case and will likely serve a life sentence in Northern Ireland's Long Kesh prison, his plight has opened American eyes to the injustices that define life in the six counties. 
The Northern Ireland Awareness Group does­working for ratification of the MacBride Principles for fair employment, and supporting programs that allow Northern Irish children of all religions to experience a summer in America free from sectarian violence. 
The fact that the U.S. govern­ment debated for almost ten years before making its mis­guided decision to deport Joe Doherty indicates that the situa­tion in the six counties is far more complex than Mr. Prick­ett's letter would lead one to be­lieve. The only way to understand occupied Northern Ireland is to understand the reasons each side gives for its campaign of violence: these sides include the British Army and government, the IRA. UDA, RUC, UFF, UVF, and INlA 
Do not close your eyHs and pretend the situation in Northern Ireland is not so bad; I doubt that Joe Doherty or thfl twenty-six people killed there this year would agree. 
Jennifer Kay Furey Farley Hall 
Feb.20, 1992 



•

OVID 
Cavanaugh Hall performs annual play to benefit the Andy Sowder Scholarship fund 


By ANGEL FARAH 
Accent Writer 
Need a break from midterms? 
The lOth annual Cavanaugh Hall play, "Nobody Loves an Albatross" is being presented at Notre Dame this weekend. 
"Nobody Loves an Albatross" features a shady Hollywood screenwriter/con artist played by junior Dave Richardson, who tries to earn money by taking advantage of young and inexperienced screenwriters employed to write plays for him. 
By utilizing a "learn while you earn" philosophy, this complacent villain turns around and sells the scripts for ten times the amount he paid for them. 
Says the director, Chad Kerlin, "We're up there having fun, and we want everyone else to have fun, too." 
Besides being one of a string of the longest running plays on campus, this Cavanaugh play features many experienced as well as first time actors. 
The founding reason behind these annual plays is in reference to a former Cavanaugh resident, Andy Sowder, who died during his senior year while on a ski trip. As a memo­rial to Andy, a scholarship fund was set up for Cavanaugh residents, which is funded by the annual plays. 
The play itself is financed through proceeds from a football game concessions stand, the club coordinations council, and donations from Cavanaugh residents. However, all proceeds from the play go directly to the scholarship fund. 

The director of the play, Chad Kerlin, who also directed last year's play, is a senior engineering major. Kerlin was involved in drama in high school, and continues in drama here at Notre Dame as an outside in­terest, or hobby. 
Kerlin says that he chooses to direct these hall productions because even though he is not a theater major, he wants to make an impact on the audience. 
John Ruskusky, Assistant Producer and Publicity Manager, says, "We've done a murder mystery and a farce in previous productions, but this year we wanted to do a comedy." Ruskusky feels that this comedy "should bring a lot of people in, especially since it's free admission." 
"An actor or actress can be very talented and yet not compatible with others on the set," says Kerlin. "What we needed were people who showed the ability and could also work well with others." 
The cast members were chosen by Selecting Producer, John Marchal, Director, Chad Kerlin and Assistant Director, John Brislin. Those who tried out had to demonstrate not only their skills in rehearsed seg­ments, but also the ability to ad-lib and foster spontaneous remarks. 
All of the male actors are from Cavanaugh, in keeping with the tradition of the hall production. However, the actresses can be from any female dorm on campus or reside off-campus. 
The cast has been working for the past three months, three times a week, for about two to three hours a night. Others, involved in choosing which play to do, have been working since this summer reading over 20 plays ranging from authors such as Neil Simon to Tennessee Williams. 
"We decided to choose a play that not as many people would be familiar with to make it more of a challenge for us," says Kerlin. "We want the audience to come in with an open mind and without preconceived ideas," says Kerlin. 
"Nobody Loves an Albatross" will be performed tonight through Saturday at Washington Hall at 8:10 p.m. 
Jam aids children through Logan Center 
By SARAH DORAN 
Accent Writer 
Zahm Hall's first annual Acoustic Jam will be Thursday at Theodore's beginning at 7:30 pm. The three hour Jam will feature 10 student acts. 
Acoustic Jam organizer Brian Haggarty said that Zahm hopes that the premier of the Acoustic Jam will "go well so that it will hopefully become a yearly event taking place in late February or early March of each year." 
"The purpose of the Acoustic Jam is to raise money for the Logan Center which will use it to send a child to the Greenlake Summer Camp" said Haggarty. 
The summer camp is located in Wisconsin and costs approximately $425 per person to attend. "Zahm hopes to raise enough money through the Jam to enable at least one child to attend" stated Haggarty. The Jam costs $2 to attend. 
Former Irish Head Basketball Coach Digger Phelps is the official spokesperson for the Logan Center, said Haggarty. "Digger Phelps told the Hall Presidents Council about the Logan Center and that is how Zahm became interested in helping it" stated Haggarty, who is also president of Zahm Hall. 
"Seventeen bands tried out for the 10 performing spots, including one Saint Mary's band," said Haggarty. 
Haggarty hopes that "the turnout will equal the tremendous audition response." Presently, only 25 tickets have been sold of 350 available. 
Some of the acts that will be performing in the Jam will be Brian Muller, Tony Graffeo, David Curran, Corey Webber, Jim Doppke, Nick Campanella, Scott Gruszynski and Haggarty himself. Also featured is Victoria's Real Secret, a band that plays a progressive-thrash type of music and has appeared at the Grace Coffee House. The Saint Mary's band that is appearing in the Jam is called The Sister Chain. 
Brian Muller's band is called "Brian, Collin and Vince" and features three singers and guitars. The group plays original music that is influenced by such different sounds as the Smashing Pumpkins, The Beatles and even Disco. "Brian, Collin and Vince" have been to­gether for one month. 
Tony Graffeo will perform three of his originals and one cover by himself. His music is acoustical and involves playing the Harmonica. He commented that he plays "a Bob Dylan type thing". Graffeo said that he is influenced by Neil Young and Dylan. 
David Curran will also perform by himself. He will play originals and also Kansas' "Dust In The Wind". 
These bands will play a wide range of music including music by The Grateful Dead, The Beatles, Kansas, Paula Abdul, Led Zeppelin and Spinal Tap. A few of the acts also feature original music. 
Haggarty expects the Jam to be "a success and a wonderful way to spend an evening for a good cause." 
Are you a bookworm? Would you like to become The Observer's literary critic? 
The Accent department is looking for an undergraduate or graduate student with strong writing skills to serve as a regu1ar literary critic for The Observer. Just like the book reviewers of The New York Times, you will be the ND/SMC community's voice on the world of the written word. If y:ou are interested, submit a writing sample and a one-page personal statement to Jahnelle Harrigan at The Observer office by March 4. Arts and Letters majors preierred. Any questions call Jahnelle at 239-5303. 

Accent

page 12 Thursday, February 27, 1992 
A mix of fun and scholarship at Medieval banquet 
By JENNIFER GUERIN 
Accent Writer 

It's no secret that people don't flock to Notre Dame to partake of the music scene. Campus bands play at dorm dances, rock the local bars, and perhaps develop small, loyal followings. Then the members graduate, get secure jobs in totally unrelated fields, and have fond memories of their brief musical careers. 
The Perfect Word is about to change all that. 
Four men have found each other, cultivated their talents, and begun their ascension to "the big time." And, if you can believe it, they started out at Notre Dame. 
The current members of The Perfect Word have been playing together for only eight months, but their involvement began long ago. 
Singer/songwriter/guitarist Marc Conklin and drummer Paul Loughridge have known each other since childhood. They grew up together in South Bend, attended Adams High School and both received undergraduate degrees from Notre Dame. The other two members of the band, singer/songwriter/guitarist Joe Bregande and bassist Paul Ceppaglia, hail from New York state. Bregande has a brother at Notre Dame this year, and another who graduated from ND in 1989. 
With a solid reputation among the college crowd in the Buffalo, New York area, and a demo album being released nationally in the next two months, The Perfect Word is well on its way to becoming established as a talented all-original band. 
Every group has a "sound," but the sound of The Perfect Word is difficult to describe, even for the members themselves. John Fletcher, an ND grad who may be joining the band this summer, compared it reluctantly to the earlier music of The Police. 
Loughridge, when asked how people might formulate some idea of their music, said the members have decided it combines the characteristics of two very different bands, XTC and The Who. 
Bregande and Conklin come from different musical backgrounds, but have managed to merge their seemingly contrasting styles. The result, says Loughridge, is rock­oriented alternative music, "definitely danceable" and rhythmic, with "a new kind of beat" to which the crowd can respond. 
As their sounds come together, so 
By MATTHEW MOHS 
Accent Writer 

Robin Hood. King Arthur and his knights. The knights who say "nigh." Maybe the Crusades. 
These names all conjure up images of the Middle Ages and for a lot of people form the basis of their knowledge of the period. Most people think of grand castles and cathedrals, chivalry and knighthood, and simple culture when considering the medieval period. 
The Middle Ages may seem distant to most students, but those that know about this age realize that it is relevant to today's world. 
The Medieval Club of Notre Dame was founded in 1989 by Professor Bolton of the Medieval Institute along with current seniors Roy Landry, Tasha Gutting, and Marko Burgar to promote awareness of the richness of the Middle Ages. 
The club wants to introduce the general student body to the resources available in the Medieval Institute. The founders not only want people to know about the books available, but also the professors who are more accessible through the Institute. 
"The purpose of the club is to mix fun with scholarship. It is basically an academic club," described the club's High Steward Roy Landry. 
The biggest, most fun event of the year for the club occurs this Saturday. The third annual Medieval Club Banquet will start at 6 p.m. in the Faculty Dining Room of South Dining Hall. 
A seven course meal is planned to commemorate a 1492 banquet of King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella that celebrated the end of the Reconquista (the 400 year fight to re-Christianize the Iberian peninsula). This meal will include soup, salad, rice, meat pie, vegetables, a chicken dinner, and dessert. 
"It's as close to an authentic medieval meal as students are going to get. Catering has gone out of their way to make this a success," Landry said. 
In addition to the dinner, club members will be providing en­tertainment for the diners. Each member will dress in medieval garb for the banquet. A reenactment play will also be performed by the students. 
Besides the banquet, monthly meetings are held at which professors discuss their area of specialty about the Middle Ages. Professors will explain medieval literature, social problems of the times, or religious developments, to name a few, in an informal, social set­ting. 
"These lectures give me a lot of exposure to a number of different 

The Perfect Word (left to right): Joe Bregande, Paul Ceppaglia, Paul Loughridge, and Marc Conklin, will perform Friday and Saturday at Club 23. 
The 'Perfect' combination 
Originating at ND, The Perfect Word looks to the 'big time' 
does their career. Loughridge said, "At first, it's very different being in an all-original band. I always thought people would say, 'Good music is good music,' no matter what." But playing original songs requires pa­tience, he insisted because the audience expects to hear at least a few covers. The Perfect Word doesn't provide those covers, so their original work must stand on its own. 
The Perfect Word is bonding as a group and as an original musical sound, and "When the band gets better, the audience gets better," said Loughridge. 
Establishing The Perfect Word in the bars and clubs in the Buffalo area was not easy. The members have been in Fredonia, New York since July, and after becoming friends, stabilizing finances, and getting to know the area, they were hit with the struggles of the music business. 
Loughridge insisted, "It's definitely 100 percent more work than being a band at Notre Dame ... We had to prove ourselves all over again." 
Initially, people in Fredonia were unfamiliar with the name and the style of the new Perfect Word. The past three or four gigs have boosted their confidence, however, and this weekend, they come back to South Bend to show people they're really 
:t, '!;."'.~, >~ .;_~~ i!l 
1-r): Julie Richardson, John Houghton and Tasha Gutting feast at the Medieval Club Banquet. 
pursuing a musical career. 
They will be selling tapes for $2 this weekend in an effort to raise money for their official demo, River May Rise, which will be released in a month and a half. 
Target areas for the album include Buffalo, Minneapolis, Chicago and Cleveland, as well as anywhere they can contact agents and other people in the business. After organizing in South Bend this summer, The Perfect Word will head to Minneapolis, where they will try to get established. 
Marc Conklin graduated from the College of Arts and Letters in 1991. While at Notre Dame, he was a member of The 5 O'Clock Shadows, whose songs appear on Jericho Sessions, last year's CD compiling the music of various campus bands. 
Upon graduation, other members of the 5 O'Clock Shadows went on to different jobs around the country, but Paul Bregande (ND Class of '89) introduced Conklin to his brother Joe in Fredonia, New York. Bregande produced the Shadows' piece on Jericho Sessions, and convinced Conklin to join The Perfect Word. 
Joe Bregande offered Conklin op­portunities in New York, such as the use of a 24-track recording studio at the State University at Fredonia. According to drummer Paul Loughridge, Joe Bregande has been "like a leader" for the new Perfect Word. He and his family helped the members find a house, get to know the area, and adapt to life in that small college town. 
Loughridge graduated from Notre Dame in 1989 as a chemistry major. Being here on a music scholarship, however, he was required to be involved in musical organizations. 
He was in the marching and jazz bands, the orchestra, and the campus band St. Paul and the Martyrs in his senior year. Having lived in South Bend all of his life, he remained after graduation, working at a music store in town and joining the band Jester, for whom he was a drummer last year. 
Currently, Paul Ceppaglia, from New York, is the bass player. This summer, however, he may leave the group and be replaced by John Fletcher, who graduated from ND this past December with a degree in Film and Video. 
The Perfect Word will perform at Club 23 on Friday and Saturday, February 28 and 29. On Saturday night, the band Dissfunktion, including potential future Perfect Word member John Fletcher, will open for them. 
academic areas. They give a different perspective that one cannot receive in the classroom,'' stated vice-president Marko Burgar. 
The incoming president Dave Lopez said, "the meetings give me a chance to do more than read about (certain subjects)." 
Most of the members agree that a valuable aspect of the club is faculty­student interaction. "I've met professors on an informal basis, outside of the classroom setting. Faculty take an interest in a student's development, which does not · happen in the classroom all the time at Notre Dame," explained Landry. 
Tickets for the meal are available at 
LaFortune. Student tickets will cost $10 
if the participants will give up their 
meal plan dinner that night. For faculty 
and friends, the cost is $22 
"The (student) tickets are heavily subsidized by the club (and the deal ·with Food Services)," Landry explained. 
Thursday, FEbruary 27, 1992 The Observer page 13 
Bouts 
continued from page 20 
the crowd hissed with disap­proval. The disappointment showed on the face of Dougherty as he congratulated his opponent. 
"I'm glad everyone thought it was a close fight," said Dougherty. "I thought I fought well. I can't say if I won or lost, that's not up to me to de­cide. 
"I was able to land that stiff jab in the second and third rounds, but I kind of let the first round get away from me. I guess that was the difference." 
In other action, freshman 
sensation Jeff Goddard contin­
ued his run into the finals, by 
holding off Kevin Mullaney in the 155-lb division. Goddard took control of the fight at the opening bell, clearly winning the first two rounds. 
In the third, Goddard aban­doned the strong right jab which had been so successful in the early rounds and began re­lying solely on his left hook. Mullaney made him pay for his mistake, catching him with solid shots before the bell sounded. 
"I was a little tired in the third round and I knew I was ahead," stated the 155-lb freshman. "I didn't want to open myself up for anything, but he managed to land a cou­ple of rights." 
145-lb junior Lou Hall climbed into the ring for his semifinal bout with Mike Ahern to the sounds of "All bets off." 
The vocal group in the arena's front row, who had screamed out their bets before each bout, knew this bout was over before it even started. 
The referee stopped the fight at 1:03 of the first round, after Ahern had received his third standing eight count. The bout's only surprise was that Ahern had landed the bout's first punch, a right to previ­ously untouched face of Hall. 
"I didn't expect him (Ahern) to come out after me in the be­ginning," said Hall. "Mike and I are good friends. I had sparred him before, and he knew what he had to do to when fighting me." 
Hall, Goddard, Brophy and the rest of the finalists will fight Saturday in the JACC Arena, where the ten divisional champions will be crowned. 
Bengal Bouts Results Semifinal Round 
135-pound division Timothy Phelan unan. dec. Chris Johnson Brian Brophy split dec. Drew Dougherty 
140 

Jeff Gerber RSC 3-0:55 Timothy Veccia Paul Ferguson unan. dec. Patrick Owens 
145 

Lou Hall RSC 1-1 :03 Michael Ahern Renzy Smith split dec. Rob Ganz 
150 

Erik Milito unan. dec. Dan Schmidt Fred Sharkey split dec. Rob Ganz 155 Shane Hitzman unan. dec. Phil Coughlin Jeff Goddard unan. dec. Kevin Mullaney 
160 

Colin Mullaney RSC 2-1 :26 Kevin Sullivan Dave Dauenhauer unan. dec. Tony Agostino 165 Scott Mulcahy RSC 3-0:15 Jeff Oakey Trainor-Raulston postponed until 2/27 
170 

Kerry Wate unan. dec. Cesar Capella John Rapchinski unan. dec. Scott Frigon 
180 

Mike Trainor RSC 2-0:55 Mike Kelly Greg Keary split dec. Eric Poley Heavyweight Matt Carr unan. dec. John Donahoe Mike O'Neill unan. dec. Mike O'Rourke 
RecSports wins statewide award 
Special to The Observer 
The Office of Recreational Sports at the University of Notre Dame has earned the 1992 Fitness and Sports Award from the Indiana Governor's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports. 
The award was presented February 14 in Indianapolis at a luncheon honoring programs in business, secondary schools and higher education. 
The RecSports program reaches in excess of 80 percent of the Notre Dame student body, as well as a growing number of faculty and staff members. 
Classifieds 
AT BRIDGET'S W-F  year's show.  -Janet. Ivan wants to know if you  
NOTICES  2:30-4:30  DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO O'HARE? CALL UNITED LIMO.  Hey, BAFA!  HELP! I need a ride to New Jersey lor break x3384  were in last month's Cosmo. -"Are you a registered republican,  
I need a ride for break (and back) to  SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK FROM  Where are you?  and financially stable?"  
USED TEXTBOOKS!  Philly-Wilm.-S. NJ area. Will share  ND BUS SHELTER. 674-7000 OR  Pow-Wow tonight.  NEED RIDE to PHILLY/SJ area lor  -Why doesn't anyone want ot eat at  
Buy & Sell Books  costs, etc. Leave after 4 Thurs or  1-800-833-5555.  break-call Sam x4863  KFC,Fong?!?!!  
Pandora's Books  thereafter. Great company!  The Blond Assassin from Hell  -Eric doesn't love us!  
3 blks. from ND  Amy x4290  "Let's go Greyhound on spring  NEED RIDE 2 LONG IS/NY/NJ  -Hey Patti, meet the Asst. Rector of  
233-2342/10-5:30 M-Sun  break. 50% off anywhere we go.  CHRISTIAN IS A HO!  area-call Ellen x4863  DILLON!!  
in ancient Rome  FOR RENT  Restrictions apply. Call287-6541"  D  WHO'S GOT SEXY LEGS?????  -"My bread is moldy." -Congrats BOB!!  
there was a poem  Shaka: When the walls fell  I  -We're really number 1, we just had  
about a dog  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  s  Naugh Hall Players- to let every9one else down easy.  
who found two bones  219-291-7153.  Avon $$$ Sales. New Commission  s  Good luck tonight! Remember, if  -Janet, Ivan wants to know when he  
he licked the one  earnings selling at work/home. 232­ FUNK  all else fails  can get his pants back?  
he licked the other  SUMMER SCHOOL RENTAL ­ 0014.  T  L.T will think of something ...  -"Wow they have Eagle Eye  
he went in circles  3 SEPARATE BEDROOMS, USE  I  Diane  Sweater in Here! Hey I have that  
he dropped dead  OF FACILITIES,  MARCH FOR WOMEN'S LIVES!  0  one and that one and ... "  
devo  KITCHEN. WASHING, $225/MO.  PROCHOICE ACTIVISTS: HELP  N  -Mark-We know you just didn't want  
NICE NEIGHBORHOOD  ORGANIZE the Michiana Coalition  Attention AMNESTY  to mow th lawn. Getting your arms  
TYPING AVAILABLE  & HOME.  to go to the Freedom of Choice  Upper Sandusky??  INTERNATIONAL members (or  caught under the garage door won't  
287-4082.  CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  Rally in Washington, DC. Call for  all interested in human rights)  fool us.  
PAUL 232-2794.  more information 232-6495 or 284­ THE PERFECT WORD  DON'T FORGET: there will be a  -Just remember Earthquakes get a  
NEED RIDE TO OR NEAR  5136.  FOR TWO NIGHTS ONLY AT  meeting SUNDAY at 8:30 p.m. in  lot of Hype.  
CHAMPAIGN IL BY EARLY PM ON  TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE  CLUB 23  the Montgomery Theatre in  -"Where's the Cadets?"  
TH. MAR 5. WILL SPLIT COSTS.  AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER  I need a ride to the DETROIT AREA  FRI. & SAT., FEB. 28th & 29th  LaFortune. We will hearing from  -Mark why were you in teh  
CALL MIKE 1668  SUBLET -CHEAP FOR FOUR  lor Spring Break. HELP! Beth  ALL ORIGINAL MUSIC  those who went to the conference  bathroom so long? Were there any  
STUDENTS!! DO NOT PAY  x4341  10PM-2AM  over the weekend. DON'T MISS  naked old ladies in there?  
..more security at bars···  EXPENSIVE DORM RATES AND  IT!!!  -"Does anyone know how to get  
••extend weekend wheels ..  PUT UP WITH RULES -HANG BY  SPRING BREAK -S. PADRE  hey nil  back to the Mariott?"  
vote: mckeon/pitstick lor  THE POOL!!!! CALL X3414­ ISLAND, TEXAS. "RADDISON  -Mary Queen of Victory, keep  
oc co-pres. monday  MESSAGE.  RESORT"BEACHFRONT  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  HAPPY 21 RST B-DAY, CHRISTINE  praying for us!  

 PARTIES! SLEEPS 6, ALSO 3 BR,  Info on semester, year, graduate,  STRICK! NEVER MIND THE  Thank you Papa Smurf. papa Bear,  
LOST/FOUND  ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO., FOR LARGE 4-BR, FURNISHED  SLEEPS 8. DISCOUNT BY OWNER. 1-212-472-1414.  summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and  LEGAL DRINKING, NOW YOU CAN GO TO THE PORNO  Pumpkin, Mrs. Springstein, Bobby Brower, and Little Moreland!  

 HOUSE. COMPLETE SECURITY  Melbourne. Programs start at  SECTION IN THE VIDEO STORE  
LOST: GRAY COAT WITH  SYSTEM: WASHER & DRYER; 9­ We are Strong !  $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696.  W/0 THE HASSLE. LOVE, THE  We LOVE you! --Fong and Krislie  
FLANNEL LINING IN KEENAN  MO. LEASE. DEPOSIT. 259-7801  P.E. CHICKS.  
HALL ON FRIDAY 2/21. CALL TIM  OR 255-5852.  EMILY WILLETI  SUMMER JOBS  
283-2004.  One more Ed. Board to go!  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  MOVING OFF CAMPUS? VOTE:  Earl's Court  
6-7 BDRM HOME. NEAR  Thanks lor all your hard work and  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  KEITH McKEON & MONDAY  Earl's Court  
Found: 9:15am 2-24-92 in front of  CAMPUS. FURNISHED.272-6306  effort in making the Saint Mary's  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR  TOM PITSTICK 3/2  Earl's Court  
Morrissey, a pair of blue eyeglasses  stall effective and the best ever this  LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-786­ oc crime #1 concern  
in a blue cloth case. To claim call  COLLEGE PARK CONDO ­ past year, and on being an  8373  SMC ColfeHouse  
x2067  Ironwood & Bulla -2 B/R -2 Bath - awesome Saint Mary's Editor!  T  Sat Feb 29  
available immediately-call 287­ Good luck next year.  The Lizard King lives on! Down with  H  
LOST: Blue ID holder with student  0534 or 271-9268.  THE SAINT MARY'S STAFF  the Crustaceans!  E  
ID & NORTH DAKOTA DRIVER'S  ·voTE·voTE·voTE·voTE·voTE.  
LICENSE. If have please call Randi  Turtlecreek townhouse available lor  Don't go back to Basix Wed ...  SOUTH PADRE ISLAND  PERFECT  
257-8534. Desperately needed or  summer months. Furnished. Call  Get the same deal at BRIDGETS ...  Condominiums for Spring Break.  Fong & Teibel  
can't go on Spring Break. No ?'s.  277-6259.  It's closer!!!  $20 per person per nighV off beach  w  Monday, March 2  
P.S. All bars have been contacted!  $25 per person per nighV beach  0  Walsh Co-Pres 1992-93  
Lost: A leather bracelet with  FOR SALE  Thurs.-"live" at Bridget's From East Lansing ...  front 1-800-422-8212.  R D  "Building a Brighter Walsh" ·········································  
enormous sentimental value. II  "THE JUVENILES"  
found. please call283-3153.  CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED  every1hing you know is wrong.  J-MAN  
89 Mercedes. . ........ $200  Fri.-Get rooted at Bridget's  Happy birthday honey! I'm  GOOD LUCK STEVE DEICK ON  
LOST  86 vw..... . ............ $50  with "The TREES"  I NEED A RIDE TO N.Y/N.Y.C/  looking forward to our date in Texas,  YOUR EXAMS THIS WEEK!  
One bright blue felt  87 Mercedes....... ....$100  anywhere round' there for Spring  but don't worry I'LL make the  
"Gambler's" hat with a 1/2 inch navy  65 Mustang.. . ............ $50  SAT-Margaritaville at  Break. Gas/drivin  reservations.  Jen Beisty is becoming a geek!  
blue ribbon/bow. Sentimental value.  Choose from thousands starting  Bridget's ... Free nacho bar+  Paul2464  
Please call Teresa, x2899 if found.  $25.  upside down margaritas.  Love (of course),  Erin Duffey has great feet!!!  
FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals  FLORIDA ON A BUDGET. $100.00  Sperm  
LOST: bright yellow Esprit pouch  Details 801-379-2929 Copyright  per person per week. Fort Myers  P.S. I love your hair.  All of Walsh is awesome! -Rich  
with keychain attached at NOH  #IN11KJC  SEXY LEGS SEXY LEGS SEXY  area 1-813-353-1437.  
Friday, 2-14; contains detex,  LEGS SEXY LEGS SEXY LEGS  To the Taller Rob-­ 
license, and other things I'd like to  FOR SALE: SMC approved loft.  someday, the giant dog of rejection  
have back. If found call Kiernan  $80 call 284-5174.  will pass amiably by the rotting  Team 922's Memoriies of Des  We have LARGER concerns about  
x2722.  IT PUTS THE LOTION ON IT'S  steak of helpless losers  Moines, Iowa.  your standards--your're writing into  
MOUNTAIN BIKE!!  SKIN. IT PUTS THE LOTION IN  -Ivan and KCC (It was our joke first)  the classifieds for love, aren't you?!  
...FOUND... Mini 35mm camera  20" Black Cannondale. Great cond. Suntour Comp. $300 Free U­ THE BASKET.  Butcher Butcher La Ia Ia Butcher Butcher  -Katie, Please lower your voice in pitch.  And so we're concerned about you meeting our standards. We want  -­ 
between Mod Quad and  lock. Call Amy x4210  I'M PULLING OUT OF HERE TO  Butcher Butcher Ia Ia Ia  -Field of Dream's Sweepstakes.  great sex. Can you deliver?  
NOH. Was found before  WIN...  Butcher butcher  -"By Golly-You're Right."  
Christmas Break.  TICKETS  DR. LOVE, DR. INKSTER HAS  Butcher Butcher Ia Ia Ia Butcher Butcher  -Janet Ivan's looking at you. -Happy Birthday Patti and Mark!  Two Brunettes and a Blonde.  
Call Joe at 1208  REQUESTED THAT THOMAS  -The Van Dance-Cecilia  
Cheap 1-way air ticket from Philly to  HURR BE ELECTED INTO THE  Ha Ha Ha!  -Team Haircuts-Janice and Kristi.  
WANTED  South Bend on March 15--277­7483  COUNCIL. HE SHALL BE CALLED "SQUIRE AGAPE."  cancun countdown: 9 days. Ladies,  -Hey Mark-who's profile do you like the best?  WATERBEDS  
start sucking it in. We're almost  -Kill the Wolf.  -~  
FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM  Round trip airfare from Chicago to  STRESSED OUT???  there ...  -Borg!  
Fraternities. sororities, student  Puerto Rico for Spring Break: $450.  WORRIED ABOUT MID-TERMS?  -Spank!  I'M TOO SEXY FOR CLASSIFIEDS  
clubs. Earn up to $1000 in one  Call x1803  LAUGHTER IS THE BEST  HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO  -Janet, Ivan's waving you.  
week. Plus receive a $1000 bonus  MEDICINE!!!  CINCINNATI/DAYTON AREA  -Captain, this ship seems to be  
yourself. And a FREE WATCH just for calling 1-800-932-0528. Ext. 65. AGENTS WANTED TO PROCESS  $ NEED 1 ST JOHN's GA x2558 PERSONALS  see HOWIE MANDEL at Stepan on Sunday, March 1. Tickets still available at the LaFortune Info Desk!!!  THIS WEEKEND. WILL PAY GAS/FOOD $ X2272 Please help me!!!! My leather jacket  repairing itselfl -Friday's, Cheddars, Bk & The Cove -lrreverance Justified! -Corn Fiels in Moscow, Iowa.  GUARANTEED ALASKA JOBS ex $1000./wk. room, board & airfare. New, '92· 80 pg. guide reveals mosl current prospecls in: Fishing, Oil. Alaska Teather Placement,  
phone orders. People Call you. Will  was accidently taken from  -Colleen, Kathy, Maureen, Brian,  Degreed jobs, ConstrucUon, &much more.  
Train. 1-800-727-9716 Ext. 555. 24  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  Latin Expressions will hold an  Theodores Sat. night. Also I lost my  Jennifer, Anee, Mary, Kevin, Mark  Wefily info available. Slate liscensed agency  
HRS. BARTENDER INTERVIEWS  Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus.  organizational meeting tonight at 7:30pm in the Club Room. All are invited to contribute input lor this  black Braefer coat at the SMC Soph. formal I have no coats!! CAll Becky at 284-4107  and Ed.(plus Lisa's wedding. Andrew McBride, & 3 dogs that never bit Bob).  Alaskemp Guaranlee: Secure Alaska job, 01 100'1. refund. Send $9.95 • $3 S&H to: Alaskemp, Box 1236-X, Co;vallis, OR 97339.  


page 14 The Observer Thursday, February 27, 1992 
Random 
continued from page 20 
thinking that he was good then," Russell responded. "I can see some similarities between us. We are both thin, and we both like to slash to the hole. I would say that I am a better ball handler, but he is a lot bet­ter at almost everything else." 
The six-foot-eight Sealy is listed as a forward, but has the ability to rebound and then start the fast break. These same attributes can be found in Russell, but the one thing Sealy has over Russell is three years of collegiate experience. 
Hussell is still only a fresh­man, and there are times when it shows. 
"This season has been a long road. I need to find some con­sistency. There have been times when I've played well, but there have also been times when my maturity (level) has brought me down," Russell explained. 

"The seniors have helped me a lot, especially Elmer (Bennett). They can tell when I'm about to go over the edge and go crazy. They come over and tell me to relax and stay in control. I've got to credit them a lot." 
However, if you look back to Sealy's freshman year at St. John's, you will find that he too struggled at times, in a year in which the Redmen finished the regular season 15-13 and won the post-season NIT. Though he averaged a respectable 12.9 
ppg, he committed a career­high 82 turnovers and shot only 
55.8 percent from the foul line. 
One thing Sealy did do a lot of in that 1988-89 campaign was display the skills he learned on the playgrounds of the Bronx, much in the way that Russell's Brooklyn blacktop background is evident on wood of the JACC. 
"Coming from New York, I think I've got somewhat of an attitude. I've always done things my way, and now it's kind of hard to get under a sys­tem, set up plays and get under control. That has been a very difficult transition for me," Russell commented. 
Over the past three seasons Sealy has learned to blend his playground flair with discipline of the collegiate game. By doing so, he has developed into a po­tential NBA lottery selection and compiled some impressive statistics. 
This season he is averaging 
22.5 points and 6.6 rebounds per game, and he needs only 180 points to eclipse Chris Mullin's all-time St. John's scoring record. 
Though Russell has not posted the numbers that Sealy did in his freshman year, Russell has the same raw talent and natural ability that Sealy had when he entered St. John's, now the only thing Russell needs to do is refine his game to the hard wood in the same way which Sealy has done. 
If Russell is able to do so, I believe that he will encounter the same success that Sealy has had in his college career. 
"Potentially, I can see myself be weird to play against St. him instead of just watchingdoing what he is doing as a se-John's and Malik Sealy. It is him. Hopefully, I won't be root­nior," said Russell, who was a going to be the strangest thing ing for him as I play against 
..

St. John's fan in high school. to look down court and actually him. "But, on Saturday it is going to have to go out and play against 

before--St. Mary's style. On Thursday, February 27th, their own Haggar College Center will be filled with live music, games, and prizes including the Grand Prize Drawing for an $150 airline voucher and a portable stereo (wI cd player). So stop by between 7:30 
p.m. and l 0:00p.m. and don't miss out on the best party north of New Orleans. ~·,J 

fHE MORRISSEY FILMFESTIVAL 
Before you go out... 
Check out 
what films 
ND dorms 
produced! 

DOORS OPEN 8:00 PM BAND 8:15-9:00 PM 
**** 
"We laughed, we cried, it was better than Cats." Gene Siskel 
and Roger Ebert 
ONE SHOW ONLY! SO COME EARLY! 

~. 
Thursday, February 27, 1992 The Observer 
page 15 

seventh-round pick of the record and three saves. Kansas City Royals last June, "Eric is the total outfielder,
Baseball 
and Robby Burk will be the the total player," praised 
primary backups. Murphy. 
continued from page 20 "Our range is not very good Freshman Steve Verduzco always going to be a team with (in the infield), with the has the inside track for the left a great attitude, because when exception of Layson, but the field position. A fifth-round we start playing like a bunch of infield is under control," said draft pick by the Philadelphia talented superstars, we're not Murphy. "Counsell, Bink, and Phillies, he turned down a six­going to achieve the things we Mee add maturity and stability, figure contract to join the Irish. want to. and that's what we're all But Notre Dame's strength 
"The concern is that we play about." could lie in its pitching staff. the way we're capable of. Binkiewicz especially will be The Irish return 43 of .their 45 We're going to lose some counted on to have a big year wins from last year, including games, but we can't get for the Irish. With Frank Jacobs preseason MCC Player of the concerned if we lose a game (.333, 20, 79) in the New York Year pick Pat Leahy (8-3, 4.76 here and there. We can't play Mets organization now, ERA) and junior Alan Walania to some unrealistic Binkiewicz is the leading run (11-5, 3.69, three saves). expectations; we've got to play producer returning from last Leahy will be joined in the up to our own real year. His 15 home runs last starting rotation by sophomore expectations." year is three times as many as Tom Price (7-2, 2.55), junior 
Notre Dame's most unsettled Adam Maisano, the next Chris Michalak (9-1, 2.47) and position in the preseason was highest returnee, and his 48 Craig Allen, who Murphy calls catcher, where versatile co-runs batted also tops all Irish "by far the most ahead of all captain Cory Mee (.355, 0 HR. coming back for 1992. the freshmen so far." 34 RBI). whom Murphy "He's committed, and there's Walania, Danapilis, freshman characterizes as "Mr. no question Bink will have a Tim Kraus and junior David Consistency," sophomore Matt better year," said Murphy of his Sinnes (5-2, 4.73, 89 SO) will Haas (.278, 3, 15) and top power threat. "(But) I think pick up most of the innings in freshman Bob Lisanti squared we'll be more of a speed team. relief, with Sinnes penciled in off. We'll have occasional power, for now as the closer. 
However, Murphy for now but we have the potential to do has Mee penciled in at third a little bit of everything." "Dave's come a long way base, meaning Haas and Lisanti In the outfield, only left field mentally," Murphy said. "He's will split the catching duties. was up for grabs coming into learned not to worry about 
"Haas got valuable the preseason. Center fielder things and be a little more experience against LSU and Dan Bautch (.276, 1, 14) "is as carefree. He can make the Texas last year," said Murphy. good as anyone in the country adjustments as long as he "He's been in big games before, defensively" according to doesn't worry about things he so he knows what it's all about. Murphy, while right field is in can't control. And Lisanti has done a great good hands with junior Eric job as a freshman." Danapilis (.374, 4, 43). "But it's too tough in college 
The rest of the infield will Danapilis was one of 40 to go with just one guy at consist of 1991 second-team collegians invited to the Team closer. He's got the most All-MCC picks Joe Binkiewicz USA tryouts last summer for experience of the people who (.379, 15, 48) at first and Craig the Pan American Games after will be at that role, so I Counsell (.317, 2, 37) at leading the Irish in on base anticipate he'll be in that shortstop, freshman All-percentage last year and position a lot." American and first-team All-finishing second in batting And if Murphy and the Irish MCC second baseman Greg average. He also appeared in have their way, Sinnes will be Layson (.338, 20 SB), and Mee. eight games out of the Notre in that role often-saving Notre Freshmen Paul Failla, a Dame bullpen, earning a 2-1 Dame victories. 


page 16 The Observer Thursday, February 27, 1992 
lnterhall hockey teams ready for playoffs 
By JIM VOGL Sports Writer 
Falling somewhere in between ice skating in freshman gym class, club hockey and the Notre Dame varsity team, interhall hockey has provided an opportunity for players of various talents. 
"It's not very competitive," said Fisher captain Don Held, "but guys learning how to play can go out. Teams will take anybody they can get." 
With just one round of games left, several teams stand out as perennial powers on the ice. In one division, Fisher is head and shoulders above the rest, owning a 6-0 record. Fisher ended the season with a 45-12 combined score. They embarrassed Cavanaugh 11-5, St. Ed's 9-1, and most recently, Pangborn, 12-1. 
"We don't have too much depth," admitted Held, a junior from East Amherst, NY. He and sophomore Rob Ganz, who both tried out for Notre Dame's varsity squad and play for the school's club team. comprise Fisher's nucleus. "In this league, not many teams have depth. It's a different game, much more wide open and fast paced." 
With this in mind, the Green Wave devised a defensive strategy. "Our team tries to slow the pace down and control the defensive end. We don't have the depth for a high paced game." 
In the other division, Off­Campus rolled to an undefeated season, going 5-0­
1. Their wins came mostly in dominating fashion, ending up outscoring their opponents by a combined 66 to 14 margin. They won 18-2 over Planner (0-4), 11-1 over Morrissey (1­3), 10-0 over Dillon, 6-5 over Keenan and 7-2 over Stanford. Grace managed a 4-4 tie against them. 
Stanford (2-0-2), Grace (2-0­3), Sorin/Carroll (3-1-0) and Alumni (3-2) are other possible participants in the quarterfinals this weekend. 

COMEDY CARAVAN EVERY WEDNESDAY with National Touring Comedians 
And ... of course...the BEST live music in town 
This Thursday and Friday February 27 and 28 9:00pm 277-1727 
One Night Only: ND Favorite Band "FREDDY JONES" 

Hoops 
continued from page 20 

Sobczak saw action in almost all of Loyola's games last year averaging a team-leading 4.1 assists pre game. Atkins was the Rambler'.s second highest scorer last year averaging 13.7 points •a game. He is a hot­handed shooter with a knack for the three-pointer and cur­rently holds Loyola's record for the most three-point goals, setting the record with eight against Saint Louis last year. Dolezal is the Ramblers' defen­sive leader with 4 7 steals and 12 2 defensive rebounds last year. 
Rogers will definitely be a player to watch. The guard was red-shirted last year, but was one of the best all-around play­ers in the Midwest during his last full season (1989-90). In the season opener against Western Michigan last year, Rogers chipped in 18 points and was named MCC Player of the Week before being forced to red-shirt. 
"He (Keir Rogers) is an out­standing player. He can go for big numbers and Taylor faces another big challenge offen­sively," said MacLeod. "We have to play defense as well as we did against Dayton. It will be a test of our defense to react to the open floor; they are a very small, quick team," 
Defense will be an important factor in the game and luckily that is one thing the Irish exe­cuted well against Dayton. 
Notre Dame held the Flyers to a .390 shooting percentage in the game and brought down 33 defensive rebounds. 
The Irish offense will be looking to avoid shooting itself in the foot with turnovers in the game against Loyola. Against Dayton, Notre Dame turned the ball over 25 times. A good part of these errors came off of miscues and poor passing. 
"Winning becomes darn near impossible when you throw the ball away 25 times without getting a shot off," said MacLeod. 
If all aspects of Notre Dame's game are working properly, then the Irish could raise both its overall record and its record against MCC teams to .500 tonight. 
You Asked for it, You Got it... 
CLIFF ERICKSON 
is Returning to ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
SENIOR 

~CLUB 

This THURSDAY-27th, FRIDAY-28th and SATURDAY-29th DON'T MISS IT!! 
ll:i~O~i
.0.. ... . ;: 


WHAT'S NEW! 

.~·PRICE DESTROYER 
o••••c:-• 
\ 

... 
..: Two Medium Pizzas 
with five toppings . ' ... ... $8.99 
0 

•271-0300 Notre Dame 'b) •289-0033 St. Mary's 
~-----~--------~------------­
I I TRY OUR NEW 15"
THE PRICE DESTROYER 
I I 
LARGE CHEESE PIZZA 
-1f. •• • ~· 
1 Five Toppings. 1 
And receive a tree 32 oz. Domino's cup. While supplies last 
I I $6.99 
: $8.99 : 
15% more pizza. only a dollar more.
Sausage, Pepp>roni. Onions. I
I Mushrooms & Green Pe~'P9!s.
1 (Llm!led Portions. No Substitutions.) I Student ID & Coupon Required. Please Mention Coupon When Ordering.
I Third Pizza only $4.00 more! I 
Offc:rnpila:June 21,1992. Valid atpuuci­parina •t.orc. only. Not valid wlt.b any Olb.:T olfer.

I ~~ Umited timeN~~!:Jid with llDY uther offc:t. I ~~ l..imi!M delivery~ t.oeo&ure We drivina.
Liuule-d delivery atu. loen&\.I.JC ufc: drivmc. 
CmiDmer pay. ulu tax. wberc applicable. Ow driven~ not penalized for law delivenet.. 
1 : . c ........ , p•ys ''""" ... wbc~ '""t.c•bl.. o~ 1 : . 
driw:n &Ro not pcw.l.iz.ed for lale del&~ 

~-~------------~-------------­
.--------------.-------------­
1

: PAN-TASTIC! WE NOW HONOR : 
1 Medium 12" ALL : 
I l-Topping Pizza COMPETITOR'S 1 
: $5.99 COUPONS I 
I Choice of Crust: Pan or Original I 
1 Student ID & Coupon P.eouired. Please Student ID &: Coupon Required. Please Mention II Mention Coupon Wh-' Ordering. Coupon When OrderiJJg. I 
Otferuplre&)Ll!k '.1992.. Valadatputici-Oft'•ecpirw;J~21,1992 Validatpmici-I I ~~:.. potinaoloouonly ·•lvol•dwilhooy~•off.,. Mfl.·.. ,....,,_oo.l~Nolvolidwilhony~off• I
Limilc.d dch~ry aru 10 ct:llun:: ufc drivmg. lillli.t .Wnoery atu loemwe ufc: drJYIDJ. 
C•tomer paya ulu I,U where applicable. Our ~..'=;::\j~:.. r:::.~\f~.Our driven an: not pc:ml..i..z.cd for hte dcl,;verlec. .I
I 

~--------------~----------­
--~ ---------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, February 27, 1992 The Observer page 17 
Wrestlers fall to 15th-ranked Boilers 
Weaver manages draw with 31-year-old U.S. Marine 
By JIM VOGL Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team put in a good effort against 15th-ranked Purdue last night, but a few mistakes came back to haunt the Irish, as they lost 18-17. 
The Irish hope to have all their problems fixed by March 7, when they participate in the NCAA Regionals in Iowa City. 
Last night's match elevated to hair-raising intensity in the heavyweight finale as the stage was set for a classic rematch. With the Notre Dame down 16­15, Irish senior Chuck Weaver faced a tall order. 
He needed to beat 31-year old Marine staff sergeant Larock Benford for the team to win. Two years ago, Benford manhandled Weaver for a major decision and a 17-15 win for the Boilermakers. 

But this time, a much improved Weaver was not intimidated by the eighth­ranked Benford. On a Weaver takedown in the second period, Benford sprawled outside the mat in noticeable pain. Then, after a Benford takedown with a minute to go, Weaver managed an escape and held on for a draw. 
Purdue head coach Mitch Hull expected a close match. "This match is typical. We come down to heavyweight all the time. We've got a few guys on the team that don't know how to win, along with some guys I can count on every time." 
On the other hand, Irish head coach Fran McCann thought his team should have been ahead entering the heavyweights. "I was really hoping it wouldn't come down to this." 
"There were two critical situations that occured. They both deal with inexperienced freshmen. At 118, he (Ed Jamieson) gives up the takedown right at the buzzer (with 0:06 left) and they get a major decision." 
The other costly error came at 150, where McCann inserted freshman Brian Murphy and bumped Jamie Boyd down to 
142. Murphy, starting his first dual meet after going 7-4 in tournament action, scored a 10-4 triumph over Purdue's Ed Pendoski. 
"He (Murphy) had the major decision and he let the kid take him down at the end," said McCann. "That's the match right there. I said to my assistants, 'I hope that does't come back to haunt us. It did."' 
SENIOR FORMAL TUXEDO RENTALS FROM LOUIE'S TUX SHOP 
PRICES: 
BlackCiassic* ................. $41.95+TAx 
Designer Tuxedos* ............. $56.00+ TAX 
Shoes ........................ $ 8.50+ TAX 
*Includes coat, trousers, shirt, tie, cummerbund, jewelry and suspenders. 
PAYMENT: 
Partial or full payment may be made. 
(A $15.00 minimum deposit is required 
at the time of fitting). We accept cash, 
VISA, MasterCard, American Express, 
Discover and personal checks. 
WHEN: 
March 3rd, 4th and 5th, 1992. (6:00P.M.-9:00P.M.) 
WHERE: 
• 
LaFortune Center, Theodore's on Tuesday, March 3rd and Wednesday, March 4th. 

• 
LeMans Hall Lobby at Saint Mary's on Thursday, March 5th. 



"Wf MAKE YONTV,, THf fVf · 
IN PLr\IN SIMPLE ENGLISH 
Dis-tin "-gwisht 
to separate or mark off by differences; perceive or show the difference in; differentiate; to be an essential characteristic of; characterize; to perceive clearly; recognize plainly by any of the senses; to separate and classify; give distinction to. 
Stood"-nt 
one who studies, or investigates. 
d-word" 
to give by the decision of a law court or arbitrator; to give as the result of judging the relative merits of those in competition; grant. 
the Dis-tin"-gwisht Stood"-nt a-word" 
Nomination forms for the Distinguished Student Award are available in the Alumni Association, LaFortune, the Library Lobby and the entrances of North and South Dining Halls. Who Do You Know? 
Belles end home season with tough loss to Calvin 
By CHRIS BACON Sports Writer 
It was a game to be remem­bered. It was a game some may wish to forget. 
Last night, amidst the ex­citement and sorrow at the end of the 1991-92 home season, the Saint Mary's basketball team was defeated by Calvin College, 79-68. It was a game long anticipated for by the team, especially the seniors who wished to close the home season with a revenge victory against the team that handed them their second loss of the season, 72-69, in Nonvernber. It was a game they won't forget. 
"I don't know what hap­pened," said an emotional Catherine Restovich. Restovich led the Belles, chipping in 23 points, including two second half trifectas, and grabbing four rebounds. 
"I think we got into foul trouble," she said. "Julie got into foul trouble and she is a big part of our game. And, we missed Janet." 
"They out muscled us and we got into foul trouble. That is what really got us in trouble," remarked Belles coach Don Cromer. "We got behind, we got into foul trouble and we couldn't get back into the game. We hesititated too much." 
Senior Kate Mulherin turned in perhaps her best perfor­mance of the season scored 10 points and led the Belles in re­bounding with 10. Junior center Kim Holmes tallied 10 points, and pulled down seven re­bounds. 
Utilizing their speed on the fast break, the Belles opened up an 11-point lead against the Lady Knights with 9:17 remain­ing, 19-8. The Belles hovered around their ten-point lead, but the Lady Knights began to charge. 

Exchanging buckets, the Lady Knights cut their deficit to three with 2:46 on the clock, 29-26. Junior Julie Snyder, hit with her third foul, was forced to the bench for the remainder of the half. The Belles held on despite Snyder's absence and exited the half with their three point advantage, 35-32. 
"We played a good first half," said Cromer. "We did the things we're supposed to do. But then we slowed down." 
In the second half, the picture became bleak quickly for the Belles as the Lady Knights be­gan to utilize their size inside the paint. The lead traded hands twice before Calvin se­cured it on an inside shot by Julie Overway, 42-43. Calvin built up a ten-point lead. 
Things began to look up for Saint Mary's, as Restovich would sink the first of her two trifectas with 10:20 on the clock, cutting the Belles deficit back down to six, 51-57. Restovich, playing on emotion, scored 13 of the teams 33 sec­ond half points. 
"Rusty was very determined to win," said Cromer. "It was her last game. She gave 150 percent. She gave was every­thing she had. We couldn't have asked any more from Rusty." 
Getting no breaks from the referees, though, Snyder was forced to sit the remainder of the game with just over nine minutes remaining as she was called for her fifth foul. Snyder left the game with only seven points, five rebounds and two blocked shots. 
"I just didn't get any breaks," 
said Snyder. "I let the refs take 
me out of the game." 
The Observer is looking lor the paid positions ol 
SMC DAY EDITORS 
Submit I page resume to Anna Marie Tabor Rm 406 McCandless or leave at the lront desk ol McCandless by Monday at s:oo pm. 

An American Company Serving America. 
Dick's Marathon 

OH"E F1U!:E TOW TO OUil STATIO"' POa llUAJJI. 
FREE ($4S.OO) FREE 
Oil NM llha-eu.ts + taJ1 -..... ... o.....-....YWt 
page 18 The Observer Thursday, February 27 
Irish women's hoops looks for fifth consecutive win 
By RENE FERRAN 
Associate Sports Editor 

The two hottest teams in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference meet tonight as the Notre Dame women's basket­ball team travels to Chicago to face Loyola. 
The Irish (10-14, 7-4) are currently riding a four-game win streak. while the Ramblers (9-15, 5-5) have won their last three games. With a victory, Notre Dame clinches at least the number-two seed at the MCC tournament in March. 
Loyola has been coming on as of late, having won four of its last six games following a 78-68 loss to Notre Dame in the teams' first meeting of the sea­son back on February 1. 
In that game, the Irish used a 19-5 first-half run to take con­trol of the game. Senior Comalita Haysbert and fresh­man Michelle Marciniak led Notre Dame with 14 and 13 points respectively, while sophomore Kara Leary added 10 points and 10 assists. 
Senior Sherry Metz (19.0 ppg, 
8.5 rpg) scored 15 points to lead the Ramblers in the first meeting. An All-MCC performer a year ago, she is the MCC's second leading scorer this sea­son, as well as third among the conference rebounding leaders. 
Her frontcourt partner, senior Cindy Pruim (14.7, 5.1), chipped in 10 points in the first game. Pruim, the conference's Player of the Week last week, leads the MCC in three-pointers made (54), hitting 38 percent from three-point range. 
A third senior, point guard Mariann Murtaugh, has scored only 15 points the whole season (a 0.6 average) while shooting just under eight percent from the field. However, Murtaugh is 15th in the nation in assists (7.0 

Sherry Metz 

per game, tops in the MCC), and is second in the MCC in steals per game (2.7). 
Rounding out the Ramblers' starting lineup are senior Sandy O'Shaughnessy (5.1 ppg, 3.0 rpg) and sophomore Stacy Kundinger (4.8, 2.2). Loyola's top guns off the bench are sophomores Lori Esser (7. 9 ppg, .395 three-point shooting) and Lisa Bluege (4.9 ppg). 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•Sportsbriefs 
are accepted In writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit your brief, your name, your telephone number, and the dates the brief is to run. 

•The 
Aikido Club holds practices every Monday and Wednesday from 6-8 p.m. in 219 Rockne. Everyone is welcome to attend. 

•The 
Rowing Club is looking for coxswains for both the varsity and novice teams. Interested individuals should call Pete at 271-8466. 

•The 
ski team now has three spots open for its spring break trip to Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Anyone interested should call Chris Woods at 277-7089. 

•Final 
sign-ups for Bookstore Basketball Tournament will be held Wednesday, Thursday, and next Monday from 4 to 7 p.m. in the S.U.B. office, on second floor LaFortune. This is the last chance to sign up. 

•Attention 
ND/SMC Sailing Club: We will be unloading the boats for our spring season this Sunday at 11:30 a.m. Attendance is mandatory. Anyone interested in joining the is welcome to come and help out. Any questions, call Adrienne Briggs at 284-5085. 

•Notre 
Dame Rugby vs. Westminster College Saturday at noon at the Col. Stephens pitch behind Stepan Center. 

•The 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will meet tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Farley. Bring your Bible and a friend. 


For the Irish, they have been getting much better scoring balance during their win streak. Sophomore Sherri Orlosky (7 .4 ppg) has averaged over 12 points in the past four games, providing Notre Dame with the outside threat it had been sorely missing. 
Seniors Margaret Nowlin 
(16.9 ppg, 9.1 rpg) and Haysbert (11. 7 ppg, 5.0 rpg) have been solid throughout, and Leary has averaged 4.0 points and 5.4 assists since en­tering the starting lineup nine games ago. The Irish have gone 6-3 with Leary as a starter. 
Freshmen Letitia Bowen (7.6 ppg, 7. 9 rpg) rounds out the Notre Dame starting five, while Marciniak (12.6 ppg) has taken over Haysbert's role as sixth man for the Irish. Haysbert re­placed junior Coquese Washington when Washington reaggravated a knee injury. 
Tonight's game will be tele­vised on a tape-delay basis Friday at 11:30 p.m. on SportsChannel. 
AMERICAN 
CANCER SOCIE1Y WILL HELP 
IN THE
CONQUEST

OF CANCER. 

COMEDY SHOWCASE 
IID~wnml ~~~u~rr ~ rn3oo~~ 
~an u[}i) ~ rro ~ [Ji) m1 
* * * ******** * *
as seen on: 
Comedy on the Road * 
* * 
Comic Strip liue
* * 
MTU 1/2 Hr. Comedy Hr.
* * 
Caroline's Comedy Club
* * 
Show time
* * 
* * ******** * * 
8:00 pm Feb. 28 in Theodore's 
Tickets $3 at the LaFortune Box Office 
$ fl1 7!o$fFfl1 rc 7!o@J M rm fl!}fl1 mJfl1 f;:J 7!fifirm u 


6:30 9:30 
Ronkin' s New LSAT Premium Program: The Best Way To Prepare For The LSAT 
If you're one of the nation's 95,000 ap­• LSAT Gold Package plicants determined to get into an accred­In addition to the 40-hour LSAT course, ited law school, you know the competition Ronkin's LSAT Gold Package includes is tough. Since there are our two-day LSAT Inten­
only 44,000 openings, a 
sive-Study Clinics offered high score on the LSAT is immediately prior to LSA T crucial. examination dates. These That's why Ronkin cre­clinics concentrate onLogi­ated the LSAT Premium cal Reasoning and Logic Program which offers a Games. The Gold Package choice of three varied also includes our Law levels of assistance. School Success Program which covers law school
• LSA T Preparation 
exam preparation, legal
Course 
writing, legal research, and

Using the most recently up­
career planning. 

dated curriculum, our 40­
hour course stresses critical thinking, argument analy­sis and logical reasoning. Besides class­room time, our comprehensive LSAT course provides live tutorials, three diag­nostic exams, three practice exams, a com­puter-based tutorial program, homework materials that include released LSATs, and a toll-free Dial-A-Teacher line. Two-day clinics, which are included in Ronkin's LSAT Gold and Platinum Packages, are also available for an additional fee. 
We'll Make Sure You Make It! LSAT•GMAToGRE•MCAT 
• LSA T Platinum Package This plan provides everything you'll need to get into law school and to be a success. Enroll and you'll receive our LSAT Pre­paration Course, LSAT Intensive-Study Clinics, Law School Success Program, plus ourLaw School Selection and Appli­cation Assistance Programs. So ifyou're looking for the bestinLSAT 
and law school preparation programs, call The Ronkin Educational Group. 



Thursday, February 27, 1992 The Observer page 19 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON CALVIN AND HOBBES 
\\Hl.C, IS T\-\15 1\-1£ 1-\fo.R0\'4!>-R~ STOR£ 7 ~~. l'lo\ ~I)ER.Il-G 
\1= '(OJ 510.\.L Ct>..\1\1'\.llT'S. 
\ 


CROSSWORD 
/ 
BILL WATTERSON 

1-10 ?,-, Will, l'~ LOOI(ING I=C£ SC>tJ.8\-III-IG 1\-11>-1 O>S-l Dtl\I.J£R f.. SC-roJI-l~ PI\'{\.01\U r:k 5~~ 01{ 1\ S~t>..ll FtMl"'\1-l£. \~IT. Cl\1-l '{OJ ~15\ SCl~~l"'G? 


CAMPUS 
7 p.m. Spring Lecture Series, "An Introduction to Asian Philosophy," Paul Griffiths, University of Chicago. Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall. Sponsored by Philosophy Club. 
-
7:30 p.m. Lecture: Postmodernism and Contemporary European Culture, "M(Picasso)TV," Rosalind Krauss, Graduate Center of the City University of New York. Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute, Committee for European Studies, Departments of Economics, English, History, Government and International Studies, Sociology, Art History, Communication and Theatre, Romance Languages and Literature, Music and Philosophy, the School of Architecture, University Libraries and Saint Mary's College. 
@Edward Julius Collegiate CW84-13 
ACROSS DOWN 
33 Attach firmly

1 Shaves off 1 Pledge
36 En route (3 wds.)

6 Fernando ­2 Word before fire40 Fa 11 flower
11 Type of vacuum 
41 Kitchen utensils 3 Jungle noisetube 42 Regatta 4 Advantage12 Prevents 5 Farmer's purchase
43 Russian ruler

14 French cheese (2 wds.)
15 Real estate incomes 44 Morally 1ow 6 Lasso17 Part of the sleep 45 Miss Naldi 7 Comedian ­cycle 46 Poetic contraction Schreiber18 Cardinal 
47 Town near Naples 8 Fix20 Encountered 50 Rocky pinnacle 9 College major
21 Leave out 51 Runs of 1uck 10 Flower parts23 Former boxing name 53 Airline company 11 Vibration24 Yield 55 Seat for two or 13-halll11er25 Not good nor bad more26 Defeat 
56 Weapons27 Depend 

57 Portals28 Cherish 58 Sorrow

30 Overcome with fume 31 Most like Jack Benny 

Howie MandeR 
sunday, March 1 Stepan Center at 8 PM 
Tickets Now on Sale ND/SMC ...$10 General Public .. $15 
14 Poet Robert ---­16 Spirited horse 19 Water bird (2 wds.) 22 Kitchen appliance 24 Place for storing 
water 26 Devastate 27 Left-over con­
coction 29 Ending for young or 
old 30 Understands 32 Banking term 33 Destinies 34 Half of a balance 
sheet 35 Took the leading role 37 Restaurant em­
ployees 38 Thespians 39 Long for 41 Tickets 44 Actress Carroll 47 Roman statesman 48 ----deck 49 On the Adriatic 52 WWII initials 54 Feather's partner 
LECTURES 
6-9 p.m. Auditions for "An Evening With Shakespeare." CSC Auditorium. Any questions, call Kris 283-1295. Sponsored by Paul Rathburn, associate professor of English. 
7 p.m. Film , "Hidden Agenda," with discussion by Patrick White, associate professor of English. Carroll Auditorium. Sponsored by Justice Education, Saint Mary's College. 
8 and 10:30 p.m. Film, "The Naked Gun." Cushing Auditorium. Sponsored by Student Union Board. Admission $2. 
MENU 
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Grilled Pork Chops Baked Cajun Cod Rolled Cheese Omelets  Jambalaya w/Chicken Chicken Jumbo Soup Blackened Sword Fi~h Grilled Rib Eye Steak Cajun Seafood w/Rice  


--------------··-------··· .. ·------------, 
-... Thursday, February 27 
The Naked Gun 
8 PM & 10:30 PM 
Fisher King 
Friday, February 28 Saturday, February 29 
8 PM & 10:30 PM 
Shown in Cushing Auditorium 
Admission $2 


STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Sports 
page 20 
.. 

By RENE FERRAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
I low many collegiatn baseball programs ran boast over 90 wins and a .765 winning percentage the past two seasons. and yet not make the NCM playoffs either year? 
Just one-Notre Dame. 
But this season. the Irish havP the security of knowing that if they win the MCC-which they have done two of the past three years-they earn an automatic bid to the NCAA's. 
So as the Irish look ahead to their season-opening double­header Friday with single games against Army and Navy at the third annual Service Academies Classic in Millington. Tenn .. they hope to put the past behind them. 
"Nobody can take away from us what we achieved last year," said fifth-year coach Pat Murphy. already the second­winningest coach in Notre Dame history. "We can all think of what might have been, but it's over with. We've put it behind us." 
For the second straight year, the Irish start out the season on a grueling road trip that will match them up with some of the strongest teams in college baseball-Washington State, Indiana, Tennessee, Arizona State, and Miami-before their home opener April 2nd against Valparaiso. 
Last season, Notre Dame used a 15-12 road swing, with wins at Texas and eventual national champion Louisiana State, as a springboard to a 45-16 record. This year, Murphy hopes for a repeat performance as the Irish open with 18 straight road games. 
"It's great experience for a team to travel around and play some of the best opponents and be under all sorts of adverse conditions," said Murphy. "It's character building, and it's something to build off for the rest of the year." 
Murphy calls this his strongest team top-to-bottom he's had at Notre Dame, and the experts agree. The Irish were ranked 11th in the preseason by Baseball America and 20th in Collegiate Baseball. 
But for now, the rankings only measure potential. 
"I could care less about rankings. We care about our attitude day in and day out, and that's what's going to be important," explained Murphy. "The way I look at it, we're 
see BASEBALL I page 15 
Russell must blend Brooklyn with the Bend 
In tht~ Notre Dame men's basketball team's last four games freshman Malik Hussell has seen his playing time in­en~ase dramatically, and he is now splitting time with fellow freshman Billy Taylor at small forward. 
In these four games Hussell has looked lih a completely different player that was seeing Iimitt~d playing time at point guard behind Elmer lhmnett. lie has appeared to be more controlled and into the flow of the game. 
"Before the Syracuse game, Coach MacLeod talked to me about setting goals and achieving them," Hussell commented. "That talk really put a lot of confidence in me, something I had not had siiH~e the Kentucky game (on January 2)." 
At small forward. he still gets to showcase his outstanding ballhandling skills on occasion, but does not have the pressure of bringing the ball up court every possession. 
"At thrPP, I have a lot more fret~dom. and I still get to handle the ball sometimes," Bussell said. "So, the switch hasn't been that dillicult." 
This style of play is similar to an all-American candidate that will lw visiting the .Ioyce ACC this weekend-Malik Sealy of the 20th-ranked St. .John's Hedmen. 
"I saw him (Sealy) play in high school, and I remember 
see RANDOM I page 14 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame basketball team will have a chance to for­get Tuesday's disappointing Joss to Dayton with a win against the Loyola Hamblers tonight at 7:30p.m. at the ACC. 
After upsetting UCLA in an emotionally charged game on Saturday, the Irish (11-12) were not expecting to be beaten by the Flyers. 
"(After the game) they were upset; they were down. It was very quiet on the bus, but we are going to bounce back," said Notre Dame coach John MacLeod at a press conference this afternoon. "The measure of your mental toughness is how many times you get back up before you get to the top." 
Hopefully, the Irish will be able to get its game back on track against the Midwestern Collegiate Conference's Ramblers (2-6, 11-12). So far this season, Notre Dame has 
Thursday, February 27, 1992 
Semifinals dazzle Bengal Bouts fans 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 

Semifinal action of the 62nd annual Bengal Bouts thrilled a capacity crowd at the JACC Fieldhouse last night. 
Nineteen of the twenty bouts on the fight card were com­pleted, the lone exception being the 165-lb matchup between Tim Trainor and Matt Haulston. The bout was cancelled due to the absence of Trainor. The senior was unable to return from an interview in Massachusetts in time for the bout. The two fighters will meet today to determine the di­vision's second finalist. 
The remaining nineteen bouts made up for the absence, keep­ing the crowd on their toes from the onset. 
Drew Dougherty and Brian Brophy squared off in the sec­ond bout of the evening and thrilled the crowd for three solid rounds, in what turned out to be the evening's best fight. 
Brophy went on the attack early, repeatedly pushing the 135-lb Dougherty into the ropes. Dougherty retaliated with a strong jab towards the end of the round, but Brophy had clearly won the round. 
In the second, Brophy again took the offensive, keeping Dougherty reHling. Brophy made a crucial error late in the round, opening himself up for repeated jabs which appeared to give Dougherty the round. 
Both fighters came out throwing to start the third. with Dougherty finding the greatest success. lie stunned Brophy with a right, causing the refereH to halt action periodically to hand Brophy the bout's only standing eight count. When action continued, the fighters exchanged blows until the final bell sounded. 
As the ring announcer issued the split-decision win to Brophy 
see BOUTS I page 13 

Notre Dame hopes to rebound 
Macleod's squad looks to bounce Ramblers 


John Macleod 

not fared well against teams in the MCC posting a poor 3-4 record against them. The Irish have lost to Butler, DePaul. Detroit Mercy, and Dayton while defeating Marquette twice and Dayton once. 
"Everybody is jacked up to beat us and we have to be as jacked up as they are," ex­plained MacLeod. "Coming in is a team that beat Detroit (Mercy) at home and Detroit knocked us on our tail here, so that should get our attention." 
Intensity will be a major fac­tor in tonight's game because this is the !irst time the teams have played each other since the 1985. In that contest, Notre Dame claimed a 71-58 victory. Loyola and Notre Dame have met 24 times and the Irish have allowed the Hamblers only one win. 
The game will be a battle of upperclassmen. Heturning starters for Loyola include guards Don Sobczak. Keir Hogers, and Hunter Atkins, all of whom are seniors and for­ward Eric Dolezal who is a ju­nior. All four will provide a formidable challenge to Notre Dame senior corps of Elmer Bennett, Daimon Sweet, LaPhonso Ellis, and Keith Tower. 
"Hogers is a big-time ot'fen­sive player, but they have three others in double figures and they're a very good offensive team," said MacLeod. 
see HOOPS I page 16 








