r--------------~ --~---­
The Observer 
~-~~---~--~--------------c----~~---­
VOL. XXV. N0.68 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Publication to help sell books 
By DANA ANDERSON 
News writer 
Notre Dame junior Pete Morrill has come up with an alternative way for students to purchase or sell their books~ He has devised a student run publication that will put book buyers in touch with book sellers. 
This catalog, which will be called the SOURCE, will come out the first day of the second semester. It will list by course and professor all the students who have books to sell for that class, according to Morrill. 
This listing is similar to the way that DART lists classes. The books, however, will not be listed by title based on the premise that professors teaching the same course in succes­sive semesters will be using the same books. 
The SOURCE will be distributed to every dorm room on campus, even if students did not place a book for sale in the catalog, according to Morrill. To get their names listed as sellers, students need only to fill out they flyer they received in the mail and return it with $2 per listing to Morrill. 
Morrill said, " I got this idea after being fed up with the high price I was being forced to pay for my books. I thought there would have to be another option for buying and even selling books. I started brainstorming about we do with our old books here on campus. No matter 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

what a student does, he rarely gets his original 

Christmas 1992 
money back that he spent on a book." After contacting the Student Activities office, 
All throughout the campus, lights and decorations have been placed to show some Christmas cheer. These trees near St. see BOOKS/ page 4 
Edward's Hall and the Administration are shining bright every night, reminding students that Christmas is near. 

American forces land in Somalia, greeted by press Glee Club to 
MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP) -porters as the commandos, no major confrontations with arrival. Mobbed by media rather than faces smeared with black and Mogadishu's thousands of The first troops appeared at 

hold concert 

militiamen, American soldiers green camouflage cream, armed young militiamen, the 12:50 a.m. local time. Marine began landing by full moon marched through sand dunes to Americans were taking no Lt. Kirk Coker told reporters at 

Saturday

early Wednesday to begin an the lone runway of the airport. chances in a full-scale land and the airport that the main force armed mission of mercy to feed The Navy SEAL commandos sea operation. would start coming ashore by Special to The Observer Somalia's starving millions. Not were part of a reconnaissance They were under orders to 4:30a.m. a shot was fired as the troops mission by U.S. special forces defend themselves in this The 1,800-member advance The Notre Dame Glee Club moved swiftly to seize for a landing by 1 ,800 Marines. chaotic land, and commanders team of America's Operation will perform its annual Christ­Mogadishu airport. made it clear they would shoot Restore Hope included a three­mas Concert Saturday at 8:15
• Somalia I page 12, 13 
As reporters watched, the first first if threatened and ask ship amphibious assault unit led p.m. in the Joyce Athletic Con­
vocational Center (JACC).

group of six Navy frogmen came The Marines will take control questions later. by the USS Tripoli, backed by a The all-male chorus will per­out of the sea outside a broken, of the airport and harbor area But the troops didn't know Navy battle group led by the form traditional Christmas mu­shattered city ruled by the gun in the first step of a plan to whether they ultimately would aircraft carrier USS Ranger sic, including the Sussex andand reeking of decomposed seize vital gateways for interna­be fighting or feeding Somalis. with 60 warplanes. 
Coventry carols, renaissance

bodies. tional aid and get food, And they didn't know how long Scores of clansmen departed carols and the club's renditions Then three rubber boats came medicine and other supplies they would stay..The Bush ad­the airport with their heavy 
of "Sleigh Ride," "Jingle Bells" ashore. and about. two dozen moving to those Somalis who ministration has spoken of weapons well before the U.S. and comical harmonies from a troops, armed with automatic need it most. ending the operation by Jan. 20, arrival. They were leaving be­select quartet. rifles, anti-tank missiles and More than 300,000 Somalis but many expect it to extend hind a cash cow .they had Santa Claus will make his an­machine guns, hopped off and already have died in one of months into President Clinton's milked for months through ex­nual appearance, and the audi­walked across the beach into history's most savage famines term. orbitant demands for landing ence will participate in certain the glare of television lights. and the United Nations says 2 Marine Maj. Frank Libutti, and cargo handling fees. familiar carols. 
Tickets for the concert are $2The only sounds were the million more are at risk of star­briefing reporters Tuesday, had Both the port and airport have and are available at the LaFor­waves, the jangle of gear, and vation. said newsmen were free to be been closed sporadically by clan tune Student Center informa­questions fired by 50 to 75 re-Although they had expected at the airport to cover the 

see SOMALIA/ page 4 
tion desk, the JACC ticket office and the Morris Civic Box Office. A portion of the admission pro­

Kirk: RA selection process 
ceeds will benefit the South Bend Homeless Center. The concert was moved this


is extremely important 
year to the JACC due to the By KENYA JOHNSON The position of an RA is held event's popularity and will ac­
NORTON. Va;,. (AP) .::....c Mine 
News Writer in high regards, he said. commodate an audience of up ~ safety officials began drilling "There's a strong interest in to 10,000 people. In past years, an air shaft Tuesday toward 
The extensive resident assis­the positions," explained Kirk. the concert was held in Stepan an area where eight coal tant (RA) selection process is "It's nice to see so many people Center, and many were turned miners were believed trapped, one of extreme importance, ac­wanting to be positive role away from the packed facility. 
j
and planned to lower a cording to William Kirk, assis­models for other students." The NO Glee Club is currently camera to search for signs of tant vice president for Resi­Sometimes, although rare, in its 77th season, with 65 stu­life. dence Life. there is a problem with there dent members from all fields of 
"Notre Dame tries to stress not being enough candidates in 
see CONCERT/ page 4 

the strong sense of residential­one hall. When this situation ity," said Kirk. "We need the arises there are usually plenty best candidates, which will of other qualified students who luck 
promote this residentiality,' for applied in their own dorm and the positions." did not receive the position, but Key qualifications for RA can­are willing to move in order to didates include prior hall activi­provide the service, according 
This is the final issue of the 

ties, involvement in liturgy or a to Kirk. Pangborn experienced sEnne~t:er. The Observer will strong sense of faith, ability to this problem last year with the resunw publication on Jan.

work well with authority, and switch from a male to a female 13, ~99~. Have a relaxing
most importantly, the ability to dorm. 
and a Merry

handle tough dorm situations, said Kirk. see KIRK I page 4 



Wednesday, December 9, ~ 992

page 2 The Observer 
FORECAST 
Cloudy and warmer today with a 30 percent chance of afternoon rain. Highs in upper 30s. Cloudy and cool tomorrow with a 100 percent chance of snow. 


TEMPERATURES 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Christmas: Give for the sake of giving 
To some degree or another, there is a feeling that is present in everyone's mind during this time of year. This feeling is the Christmas spirit which, for many, is represented by the act of giving. 
Unfortunately, many 
people only focus on the spirit of giving at or around Christmas time. They miss out on a much more rewarding attitude towards giving. This attitude is to try giving yourself away. Try to give without the desire to receive. Understanding this means to try giving not just to those in need, but to those who cannot return your gracious act; your being unselfish. Jan MacBarron was an individual who realized this principle and applied it in her daily life after many hollow years of selfishness. 
Having constantly offered her help or as­sistance only when she knew she would receive something in return for actions, Jan was a very selfish, introverted person. Jan started to realize over her aging years that she was acting solely in this mode. Fortunately, Jan was willing to be open minded. She decided to learn the attitude or the concept of giving yourself away. As she incorporated this attitude into her daily life, she became so enthralled by the overwhelming good feelings that she had about herself and others that she stopped seeking recourse for her actions. 
One way that Jan practiced this was through teaching functionally illiterate adults to read. In so doing, Jan came to realize that the more inwardly focused her reasons for giving were, the more unfulfilled she felt as a result. Yet, she also began to comprehend that the more she fo­cused on helping others, the more she felt the true form of satisfaction. 
Jan stated that she has never felt as good as when she understood that she was doing something for someone who might not be able to help themselves. 
As Christmas approaches, many people start to go through "the motions" when giving. They suddenly feel that since this is the season, they have to give. Unfortunately, they have lost the true meaning of the spirit of giving. They forget that it is more important to give than to receive. Yet for any number of reasons, many people fall into this trap at Christmas. 
These people would rather give so that they receive something in return or give to avoid being labelled as "not in the spirit." If these individuals would only realize that Christmas time does not have to be so materialistic, they would be able to enjoy the season for what it is-a time to give to others. 
Fortunately, there are some people who will choose to give at Christmas for the sole benefit of giving. For these people, the gift of personal satisfaction they receive from giving is ever more greater than any material Christmas gift that they might receive. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 

Production Peggy Crooks Bryan Nowicki  Sports Jason Kelly  
Systems Harry Zembillas  News Alicia Reale Kenya Johnson  

Good Luck On Finals! 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Mike Hobbs 
Advertising Manger 
FRONTS: COLD WARM STATIONARY © 1992 Accu-Weather, Inc, 
Preaure 

H L ~~!Til~~~ {)!?\U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW 




TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATION 

•GR ENEVILLE, Tenn. -Two families are suing Takoma Adventist Hospital for $18 million because its staff switched their babies shortly after birth. The baby girls, born hours apart in May, were returned to their real parents in September after a blood test revealed the mistake. Takoma acknowledged the switch in September, saying anklet identification bracelets came off the infants and inadvertently were put back on the wrong babies. The lawsuits charge that the hospital was negligent and tried to cover up the switch, even after one of the mothers repeatedly expressed concerns that the baby she took home was not hers. The other parents didn't know about the switch until the hospital told them. 
victim testifies against former priest 
•MINNEAPOLIS -A young woman said she warned her mother that their neighbor was "a pervert" after the former Roman Catholic priest, now accused in three states of sexually assaulting dozens of children, allegedly groped her. The woman, now 21, said James Porter molested her three times in 1987 while she baby-sat. She testified Monday in Porter's trial on six counts of fourth-degree criminal sexual conduct. Among witnesses the prosecution planned to call today were the woman's older sister, who also claims she was molested by Porter. 

Of INTEREST 
•NDCIBD presents David Stefancic as a part of a special speaker series. Stefancic will speak on Poland 6 
p.m. Wednesday, in Room 20 of Hayes Healy. 
•Advent 
penance service will be held at 10 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Father Rob Moss will preside. 

•saint 
Mary's/Notre Dame Wind Ensemble will present a concert Thursday, Dec. 10 at 8 p.m. in the Little Theater at Saint Mary's College. · 

•A 
bilingual Mass marking the feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe will take place Friday at 5 p.m. in the 


Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
MARKET UPDATE 
I 

MONDAY'S TRADING December 8 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 217,713,000 +.88 to 240.24 

S&P COMPOSITE +1.68 to 436.99 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +14.85 to 3,322.18 
GOLD -$0.70 to $336.30 oz 
SILVER ·50.015 to $3.773 oz 
' 

ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Porter, now married and the father of four children, faces criminal charges and civil lawsuits for allegedly molesting dozens of other children in Minnesota, Massachusetts and New Mexico before he left the priesthood in 197 4. 



CAMPUS 

Music orofessor to perform recital 
•NOTRE 
DAME, Ind.-Organist Craig Cramer, associate professor of music at Notre Dame, will perform a recital Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Works of Bach will compose the program, including the Prelude and Fugue in A Minor (BWV 551), selections from "Clavierubung III," the Concerto in D Minor after Vivaldi (BWV 596), selections from the Leipzig Chorales, and the Toccata and Fugue in F (BWV 540). Cramer has won several competitions, including the Alexander McCurdy Competition in Organ Performance at Westminster Choir College and the National Organ Competition in Fort Wayne, Ind. The recital is one in a series of 18 concerts of the complete works of Bach to be performed by Cramer over two years. It is also part of the Sacred Heart Vespers Series, which is free and open to the public. 

•Intern 
at The Center for the Homeless during the Spring Semester of 1993. Applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns· until Dec. 18. Graduate and undergraduate students are encouraged to apply. For more information, call Drew Buscareno at 282­8700. 

•The 
banner of support for the Southern Illinois community will be placed outside the Campus Ministry office in the concourse of Hesburgh Library. Students, faculty and staff are asked to stop by and sign the banner today and Thursday. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1940: British troops opened their first major offensive in North Africa during World War II. 

• 
In 1958: Robert H.W. Welcl:l Jr. and 11 other men met in Indianapolis to form the anti-Communist John Birch Society. 

• 
In 1975: President Gerald Ford signed a $3.2 billion seasonal loan-authorization that officials of New York City and state said would prevent a city default. 

• 
In 1989: President Bush's national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft, and Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger began a surprise visit to Beijing, six months after China's crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators. 

• 
In 1990: Solidarity founder Lech Walesa won Poland's presidential runoff by a landslide. 


City Anchorage Atlanta Bogota 
Cairo 
Chicago Cleveland Dallas Detroit Indianapolis Jerusalem London Los Angeles Madrid Minneapolis 
Moscow 
Nashville New York Paris Philadelphia Rome Seattle South Bend Tokyo Washington, D.C. 
H  L  
22  12  
43  32  
55  46  
68  66  
28  25  
31  28  
47  42  
33  30  
31  29  
59  48  
48  45  
64  45  
48  39  
27  20  
34  25  
41  33  
39  31  
43  32  
42  31  
57  37  
45  36  
31  27  
70  57  
42  37  



-

Wednesday, December 9, 1992 The Observer page 3 


Bookstore's future examined 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH News Writer 
Discussing the need for a more academic book selection in the Hammes Bookstore is the task of a committee recently organized by Father Edward Malloy, president of the University. 
The committee, which con­sists of faculty, administration, and one graduate and under­graduate student, will study the academic selections in other college and university book­stores to determine how the se­lection at Notre Dame com­pares. 
"Currently the bookstore is perceived t().. be basically a text­book store," said Jim Lyphout, associate vice preside:nt of 
SMC Library extends hours over exams 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
News Writer 
The Cushwa-Leighton Li­
brary at Saint Mary's will ex­
tend its operating hours begin­
ning Saturday to 
accommodate students who 
requested longer operating 
hours during finals week, 
according to Mary Beth 
Wilkinson, vice president for 
academic affairs and college 
relations. 
The extended hours for the 
library are as follows: 
•Sat. 
Dec. 12 and Sun. Dec. 13, 9 a.m. to 2 a.m., 

•Mon. 
Dec. 14 through Wed. 


Dec. 16, 8 a.m. to 2 a.m., •Thurs. Dec. 17, 8 a.m. to 12 
p.m. and, •Fri. Dec. 18, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. 
From 12 midnight to 2 a.m. the building and computers will be available for use, but there will be no media center, reserve desk, and check-out services during these hours, said Sister Bernice Hollenhorst, director of the Cushwa-Leighton Library. 
"The hours have been ex­tended on a trial basis to see if students will use them or not," said Wilkinson. 
business affairs and chairman of the committee. "A more academic bookstore selection would include books each disci­pline finds appropriate but not necessarily as a textbook. These are not necessarily best­sellers, but more of trade­books." 
The idea for the study came about after complaints concern­ing the book selection in the bookstore were waged by pro­fessors. 
Greg Butrus, student body president and member of the committee, said that the com­mittee is in the early stages, and currently is trying to de­termine what makes a good academic bookstore. 
"We have to take that infor­mation and apply it to our par­ticular situation," said Butrus. "Notre Dame is a more residen­tial campus. This and other characteristics of the campus impact together on our book­store." 
There is no timetable for the completion of the study presently, and there are no re­strictions on what the commit­tee may conclude or recom­mend, said Roger Schmitz, vice president and associate provost and a member of the commit­tee. 
"Nothing is ruled out at this point," said Schmitz. He added that the possibility of building a new bookstore to alleviate space constraints may be a possibility, but it is too early to speculate on what the commit­tee will find in their research. 
Scholarship established in honor of Phil Donahue 

By KATIE MURPHY News Writer 
Multimedia Entertainment, Inc, the distributor of "Donahue" for international and domestic broadcast, has established a scholarship for Notre Dame seniors in honor of Phil Donahue, a 1957 alumnus. 
The gift was announced Nov. 6, at a dinner in New York hosted by the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, which marked the 25th anniversary of the Don­ahue television program. 
Father Paul Doyle, religious superior of Corby Hall, accepted the gift for the University . Other guests included New York Mayor David Dinkins, Rev. Jesse Jackson, Congresswoman Patricia Schroeder, consumer advocate Ralph Nader, and columnist Erma Bornbeck. 
"I cannot tell people how im­portant Notre Dame is to me," said Donahue. "My teachers there did something no one else had. They taught me how to think. I came to Notre Dame with all the answers. I left with good questions." 

Phil Donahue 

Donahue graduated from Notre Dame with a Bachelors in Business Administration in Commerce. He was very active in campus theater as well. 
"His work was always first rate and exciting," said Father Arthur Harvey, former director of Washington Hall. 
The Donahue Scholarship will be awarded annually, starting with the 1993 school year. Preference will be given to stu­dents aspiring to careers in the communications field, including journalism and broadcasting. 
Reduce, Reuse, RECYCLE-­
Your children will thank you someday! 

Opportunity for individual confession following the service. 


By BRIAN SEILER News Writer 
Victoria's Real Secret, Chisel, and Brian, Colin, and Vince, three student bands, will stage "Three Cheers for Skybuster Jones," a benefit concert for the homeless, in Washington Hall at 7:45p.m on Friday. 
The reason behind the timing of the show, which will take place during a study day before final exams, is to remember the plight of the homeless "while everyone's stressed out for themselves," said Ted Leo of Chisel. 
Colin Clary of Brian, Colin and Vince said that the purpose of the show is to give each band an opportunity to "say some­thing to the student body be­sides the songs, to give some­thing to the people and be en­tertaining." 
"Three Cheers for Skybuster Jones" will not only include performances by all these bands, but also skits and props. Skybuster is a "mythical, hero kind of guy," according to Clary. Brian Muller of Brian, Colin and Vince thought of the idea of the Skybuster Jones theme. 
All proceeds will go to the South Bend Center for the Homeless. While admission is free, the band members will pass a hat around for donations to the Homeless Center, and are encouraging additional do­nations of clothing. 
Victoria's Real Secret will open the concert, followed by Chisel. Brian, Colin and Vince will close in what is probably their farewell performance, Clary said. 
CBS reportedly attempts wooing Letterman from NBC 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -CBS has reportedly offered David Letterman at least $14 million a year to woo him away from NBC for a late-night show that would go head-to-head against Jay Leno and NBC's "The Tonight Show." · 
CBS guaranteed Letterman its 11:30 p.m. time slot along with double his NBC salary, or about $14 million, the Los An­geles Times reported Tuesday. 
The New York Times re­ported Wednesday that Creative Artists Agency, which represents Letterman, informed NBC that he had accepted a CBS offer that would pay him about $16 million a year. 
The deal would give Letter­man ownership of the show, to air at 11:30 p.m., and let him produce a second late-night show following his own, the New York paper reported. 
NBC has abqut four weeks to make a counteroffer to Letter­man. 
Bring this coupon to Little Professor and receive 


$1 OFF 
a purchase of $5 or more or. .. 

$20FF 
a purchase of $10 or more or... 

$30FF 
a purchase of $15 or more. 
Clne di5roulll ~per cwtom~r; Qffet 1111\ld onlr oa npiarly-priold ~ U'l Axil afld ltOII ..ud wtlh otMr ~ 
~JB010KpC0ENTER. 
We l!elp you [i11d books yor/11/ove. 
Ironwood Plaza North • near the New Martin's State Road 23 at Ironwood • South Bend 277-4488 • Mon.-Sat.: 10:00.9:00 • Sunday: 10:00-5:00 
----------------------------------------~-­
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, December 9, 1992 
Mine 
continued from page 1 
Division of Mines and Minerals. 
"There is the possibility that there is (healthy) atmosphere elsewhere in the mine that they could have traveled to," Wampler said. "We never give up hope." 
The explosion early Monday blew through Southmountain Coal Co.'s No. 3 mine in rural southwestern Virginia. 
The blast wrecked a mine of­fice building outside one en­trance to the mine and burned the paint off several vehicles parked nearby. Smoke contin­ued to seep out, staining the cliff above the entrance. 
A ninth miner working closer to the entrance crawled out and was hospitalized for burns. 
The mine has had no fatalities since it opened in September 1990. However, a federal mine official said its injury rate was nearly triple the national average. 
There was another reminder of the danger of mining Tues­day about 55 miles to the north, in southern West Virginia. Falling rock -a "roof fall" -killed one coal miner 
Concert 
continued from page 1 
study. This year, tours will take the group to the Northe·ast and Deep South U.S. and Europe. 
The chorus's latest recording, "On Christmas Night," was re-

B0 0 kS 
continued from page 1 
Morrill received University approval for his plan. In addition, Student Activities provided him with mailing labels for all students on campus. 
Initial funding for the SOURCE will come from Mor­rill. The money that students pay to get their name listed in the catalog will be used to get the catalog printed, and to cover the start-up costs that Morrill has faced. 
Morrill said, "I don't intend to make a lot of money on this project. Rather, it is more of a service to students. Students win by using this service in two 
and injured two others inside the Alma Ridge Inc. Mine No. 1 near Thacker, state· authorities said. 
In Virginia, brothers Claude and Palmer Sturgill, both long­time coal miners, were among the missing men. A cousin and fellow coal miner, Jackie Bur­nette, said he has worked with Claude Sturgill often. 
"He's the kind of guy who makes sure it's safe," Burnette said. 
Claude Sturgill's wife, Audrey, refuses to leave the mine, Burnette said. 
"She said she won't leave this place because she knows that he knows she's here waiting," Burnette said. 
Coal mining is ubiquitous in this county of about 39,000 res­idents. The county had 119 mines in 1991, according to Kathleen Gillespie of the De­partment of Mines, Minerals and Energy. 
"I think most people have relatives, friends or know somebody in the coal industry," said city treasurer Joe Stallard. "It starts you to thinking." 
Eva Masterson's son was in­jured four years ago in a min­ing accident. Her other son still works in the mines. 
cently released on compact disc and will be available after the Christmas concert and at the Notre Dame Hammes Book­store. 
Mark Ring, visiting assistant professor of music, is director of the Glee Club. He also teaches graduate conducting and directs both the Chamber Choir and the Chorale. 
ways. First, they can buy books for their classes at lower pfices than the bookstore. Secondly, they can make money by selling 
their books to interested buyers.'' 
Other universities offer ser­vices such as book cooperatives for students to drop off their books and get 100% of their cost for the book back if the co­operative sells it, Morrill said. Notre Dame, however, does not offer any worthwhile alterna­tives for students to sell their books besides the bookstore, he said. 
Morrill hopes that students will take advantage of his ser­vice, by uniting together to cut down the costs of books. So far, he said, friends and classmates have responded positively to the idea of the SOURCE. 
J-~93~ 
g)ec. 21, 1992 
~ 

~g)cuL,93~ 
~&~~'4r 
7Day Delivery  
Ro~s  F~we~  
Balloons  Plants  
Gift & Fruit Baskets  
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North  ( 219)2 7 7  1291O"t~e"\. ~ ta,_~"\.  

Sauth Bend, IN 46637 ~ ~'4).~
Mention This Ad and Receive 10% off ~ Not good for Valentine's Day 

Somalia 
early March that ended more than four months of heavy fighting and left the shattered capital divided by a Green Line. Ali Mahdi holds the north, Aidid the south. 

The cease-fire ended artillery and mortar shellings of each other's positions, but barely ­dampened the noise of small arms fire that still rattles through the city. 
More than 30,000 men, women and children died or were wounded in that fighting. Hastily dug graves dot the city, small mounds of sand marked by sticks and stones. Some of the graves have been exposed by the torrential rains of the fall. 
Many of the gunmen owe no particular allegiance to either warlord, plying their looting trade under the direction of wealthy merchants who control the city's open-air markets. 
Those markets are awash in stolen food aid -wheat from Canada, Australia and the Eu­ropean Community, rice from Thailand, sorghum from the United States, sugar and dates from Saudi Arabia. 
Looters have stolen up to half of the more than 220,000 met­ric tons of food and other sup­plies sent to Somalia so far this year, and the problem has been getting worse in recent weeks. 
On Oct. 12, the United Nations announced an accelerated plan to deliver 100,000 metric tons of aid to save an estimated 250,000 people who might die without it before the end of the year. 
But that so-called 100-day plan has been largely stymied by increased looting, a new outbreak of fighting between rival clans in the interior of southern Somalia and the closing of Mogadishu's port and airport. 
The port was opened Sunday for the first time in more than a month and 400 tons of food ­enough to feed 150,000 people for a week -was delivered to northern Mogadishu. 
The port was closed by vio­lence on Nov. 5. When a U.N.­chartered ship laden with food tried to enter on Nov. 25 it was struck by a shell and had to turn back. 
With that, President Bush decided to take action in the closing days of his administra­tion. 
Looking successful right from the start. 

Happy Birthday 
Kim! 
Love, Mom, Dad & Chris 

YOU are invited to be a part of a small Christian community. 
Gather as a mixed group ofmen and women students to pray, to reflect upon Scripture, and to discuss the issues that challenge us as Adult Christians. 




ties 
o 
meetings twice monthly, according to your schedule 

o 
all student -led, with resources provided by Campus Ministry 


o sign ups from now until December 17in the Badin Hall and Library 
offices of Campus Ministry...put yourbooks away for a few minutes and sign up TODAY! 
o questions?Just come on in and ask! (3MPUS 
-
MINISTRY 

Badi., Hall • Ltnive~si~ ofNot~e Dame • Not~e Da>11e1 Jnc!ia.,a 46556 • (219) 239-5242 
Wednesday, Dt::~.;t::rnuer ::1, 1::1::1L The Observer page 5 


Studying the right way 
Lyons juniors Sarah Maher and Kelly Dee and Keenan junior Bill Driscoll take over a table at the Hesburgh Library. With upcoming finals students are preparing for late night with necessities such as Coca-Cola and coffee. 
December 18th 

is Stephanie's 
21st Birthday! Wish Her AHappy Birthday. Buy her awimpy libation. 




N D students awarded for design concepts 
Special to The Observer 
Holiday Rambler Corporation will present awards to 13 Notre Dame design students tomor­row for their concepts of recre­ational vehicles for the future. 
In a partnership with the University, Holiday Rambler commissioned students from the product design class taught by Bill Goralski, assistant pro­fessor of design at Notre Dame, to design the exterior and inte­rior of a recreational vehicle according to specific height, length and weight standards while providing comfort and at­home convenience. 
"When Holiday Rambler ap­proached us, it sounded like a great way to motivate our stu­dents by showing them the im­portance of using innovative, creative ideas in major indus­try," Goralski said. "My class worked on this project all semester and now they will walk away with more than just a grade for their transcript. It was a valuable, hands-on expe­rience." 
Each student from the honors design class will give a five-minute presentation to .a panel of five Holiday Rambler executive judges Thursday at the Holiday Rambler headquar­ters in Wakarusa, Ind. 
Winning designers will re­ceive a $100 check for best in­terior, best exterior and most innovative design, and all par­ticipants will receive course credit for the effort. 
Holiday Rambler "wanted out-of-the-box thinking about the design of RVs and some totally new ideas to be consid­ered for future designs," said Joe DiBiagio, vice president of the company's motorized busi­ness units. 
"We encouraged them to do their own research and ap­proach the product from a completely new angle," DiBiagio said. "Now they will know what the working world is really like and we'll get some exciting RV concepts." 
Holiday Rambler, a wholly owned subsidiary of Harley­Davidson, makes a variety of recreational vehicles, including motor coaches, motor homes, travel trailers and fifth wheels. 
Scout officials defend winter training hikes 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)­Five young Boy Scouts who were lost overnight in Brown County State Park last weekend were trained to survive the cold temperatures and other adver­sity, Boy Scouts of America of­ficials said. 
But others are questioning the wisdom behind the traditional Boy Scout winter hikes. 
"I think the difficulty of task was underestimated," said Janet Brinkman, whose 11­year-old son Jacob was one of those who was lost. "I think the scout masters are very experi­enced but even they underes­timated the potential for dan­ger." 
The five Bartholomew County Boy Scouts (Matthew Moats, 14, a live scout who was the patrol leader; Evan Gilbert, 12; Justin Potts, 12; Derek Wilder, 11 and Brinkman) lost their bearing in the park Saturday morning. They were rescued Sunday afternoon about 1 3/4 miles from Story. 
Randy Brown, scout executive for Hoosier Trails Council which covers an 18-county area in south central Indiana, said the boys were well-trained on the use of a map and compass before they began the ex­pedition. 
"It wasn't like there were five kids thrown out and said 'OK kids, go out and have a good time'," he said. 
Their mission was to walk a direct line from one point -Strahl Lake -to another ­Ogle Lake. 
No one can guarantee your acceptance to medical school. But we can guarantee that you'11 score your highest on the MCAT. Our unique Test Your Bestr"' guarantee is your insurance policy. If you're nor completely satisfied with your MCAT score, we'11 let you repeat the entire course. . at no charge! 
We offer expen live instruction, innovative home study matenals, unlimited review in our TEST-N-TAPE~ labs and lots of personal attention. That's why Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared more test takers, and produced more top MCAT scores, than everyone else combined! 
! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
REGISTRATION FOR THE MCAT CLASS IS: November 30 to December 15 
PHONE: 272-4135 Today! 
p 
' 
~ ~ 
' 
r 
r 
~--~---­

page 6 The Observer Wednesday, December 9, 1992 PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
To: 

Administrators, Faculty and Students. 
From: 

The Black Cultural Arts Festival, African American Student Alliance, Notre Dame Voices of Faith, and The League of Black Business Students. 
RE: RACIAL HARASSMENT POLICY 
We, the aforementioned organizations, feel that it is our duty to inform you of some of 
the injustices that are being committed at this University. It has come to our attention 
that there have been several occurrences of racial harassment on this campus this 
semester, and we can no longer allow the myth of a "community" attitude to exist. Two 
years ago, Students United for Respect (SUFR), raised the issue of campus racism and 
many responded by questioning its existence. The following ex':\mples of racial 
harassment are concrete proof that racism does exist at the Administrative, Faculty, 
and Student levels, and that there is a need for Notre Dame to adopt an effective 
racial harassment policy. 
•Two 
sophomores were harassed by a Rector while attempting to post student activity approved posters on a dormitory bulletin board that contained other organizational flyers. At the time that these African-­American students were being harassed some white students were allowed to post their organizational flyers on this board. The Rector shouted at the African--American students while they attempted to discuss this treatment with him. Although the students went thro~gh the proper channels, they still remain unsure that any actions have been taken in their defense. 

• 
A Composition and Literature teacher, when asked to give an example of how to cite the source after a quotation, responded by giving a sheet of example quotes and their citations. The quotes, filled with racial slurs against African Americans, were not taken from a work that the class would study. 

• 
Several women of color are being targeted as the victims of racially harassing phone calls. These male callers make obscene, racist and sexist comments. Many of the women who are the victims of these calls have received more than one. 


The occurrences of racial harassment, as you can see, vary; however the victims do not. They are always the minority members of the "Notre Dame Community". These are not the only incidents of reported and unreported racial harassment that have occurred on campus this semester. These cases demonstrate the need for an effective racial harassment policy that punishes the perpetrators and comforts the victims instead of the opposite which is usually the case. If you have been the victim of racial harassment this semester, please report it to the Security department and the Office of Student Affairs. By allowing the administration to believe that racial harassment does not exist we are, in fact, helping the racists who are doing the harassing. 
Wednesday, December 9, 1992 The Observer page 7 
Black women less likely to marry 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Black women are far less likely to marry than white women, the government said Tuesday -a phenomenon researchers blame on unemployment, low income and high imprisonment rates in big cities. 
At age 40, one in four black women has never married, compared with one in 10 white women, a Census Bureau study said. 
Several experts on social and population trends said urban poverty makes it harder for black men and black women to marry. 
"The economic opportunities available to men are greater for white men than black men," said Reynolds Farley, research scientist at the University of Michigan's Population Studies Center. "Black women are forced to assume more eco­nomic roles than white women are because fewer men can support them." 
Economic necessity may also have given black women more role models of successful single women, and "it could be that the general liberation move­ment is more accepted by black women than by white women," Farley said. 
Marriage has been declining for half a century. Among blacks, the decline has been particularly steep since the early 1980s, when a recession left one black worker in five without a job. 
In 1975, 90 percent of black women had married by age 40. By 1985, the marriage among that group had declined to 81 percent, and by 1990, to 7 5 percent. 
Among white women age 40, the marriage rate has held steady above 90 percent duril!g that period. 
Fewer black men are avail­able for marriage "primarily 
because of poverty and many of the difficulties that follow from that," said Carl Haub, demog­rapher with the Population Reference Bureau, a Washing­ton research group. 
Among the factors that re­searchers say keep blacks from marriage: 
•Black 
unemployment now stands at nearly 14 percent, double that of whites. 

•One-third 
of blacks live be­low the poverty line of $6,932 a year for an individual. Only one-tenth of whites are that poor. 

•
Blacks are imprisoned far out of proportion to their numbers. Blacks account for about 12 percent of the population but half the prison inmates. 

•In 
the District of Columbia, 42 percent of black men under 35 are either in prison, on pro­bation or parole, being sought on arrest warrants or out on bond. 


Sign on the dotted line Another woman accuses Sen. Packwood 
Graduate student Lisa Riley signs a petition for the development of a PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) -An­Women's Resource Center on Notre Dame's campus. The Women's other woman has accused Sen. Resource Committee hopes to receive 100 signatures on the petition. Bob Packwood, R-Ore., of im­proper sexual advances, saying 

~~';;:­
.-\...~[\{!:\ L 
!I N n 


he fondled her when she was 13 years old. Packwood called the accusation "an outrageous lie." 
Tiffany Work, an accountant and mother of four, is the 16th The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges those who ha•f"! supported th-"' st•ti-~n~ ~ 1ll~r ~.:12-=n:.iv-2 l_.~r:-ogr-am. 
Baskin Robbins 31 lee Cream & Youurt 
~ 
The Distinquished Gentleman R

Hacienda -lndian Ridge Plaza 
5:00. 7:30. 10:00 
Home Alone II PG 
4:30, 7:00. 9:30 

Lacopo ·s Pizzeria 
Dracula R 
4:45, 7:15, 9:45 



JUNIORS: 
Turn in pictures and videotapes NOW to your Junior Class Council Representative 
OR 

You will not be included in the 
1993 JPW AUDIO-VISUAL PRESENTATION 
All pictures and tapes will be returned. 
P.S. Without your contribution, (Yes, this is an ultimatum) 
have fun watching a video about my friends! P.P.S. Thanks for your support. 
-The JPW Brunch Chairperson 
Deadline: Friday December 11 
woman to accuse Packwood of inappropriate behavior. A state group that combats sexual crimes has asked the Senate Ethics Committee to investigate. 
Work told The Oregonian the incident occurred in 1973 when she was in modeling school and was asked by her teacher to work at a party for Packwood at a Eugene restaurant. 
She said that Packwood fon­dled her buttocks. She said she gasped, and he walked away laughing, holding a drink in his hand. 
Get Your Rallpasscs For 1993 at 1991 Prices! •Eunlil Flcxipas 5wfln 15 days $180* •Youth Flcxlpas15 wfln 2months $410* •Youth 1month pas $470* 
"Ra!os scheduled to ri!f! 115 much 115 20% on 
Jan 1,1993. Passes Issued In 1992 are good fortrllllei, 
ifvalidotedwithln six months from issue dot~. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Deabom St., 2nd Roar Chicago, 1160610 

311·951·0585 
Call for a Free copy of The 
Student Travels Magazine! 
Work, now 32, said Packwood had no way of knowing how old she was at the time. And she said she doesn't think Packwood "should be punished for something he did 20 years ago." 
"This is an outrageous lie," Packwood said Monday through aide Matt Evans. "This whole thing has become ludicrous." 
It was his first denial of any of the allegations. Earlier, he apologized for any wrongdoing and said he would be tested to determine if alcohol had been a cause of any behavior prob­lems. 
He said he would hold a news conference later this week, but did not schedule a day or time. 
Reached by telephone at the couple's home, Work's husband, David, said his wife would not comment beyond her interview with The Oregonian. The allegations also were in an article in The New York Times. 
Work said she decided to go public with her allegation in hopes it would bring attention to the issue of sexual harass­ment in the workplace. 
At least 15 other women have accused the 60-year-old senator of making unwelcome advances. Ten, including five who have made their names public, made their allegations in a Nov. 2 2 article in The Washington Post. 
Five others were cited, but not identified, by Holly Pruett. 
The Biological Sciences Graduate Students 
present Harvard University's 

Stephen Jay Gould 
Author of: Mismeasure of Man Wonderful Life Ever Since Darwin 
speaking 

Wednesday, December 9 .. 8:00p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
"The Proper Integration of Development and Evolution" 
--------------------' 



page 8 
One Siamese twin survives separation 
CAPE TOWN, South Africa (AP) -Doctors separated Si­amese twins joined at the heart in a 1 0-hour operation Tuesday, but only one of the boys survived, the lead surgeon said. 
Ashlay Fokker died while his brother, Ashil, who had the weaker heart, died during surgery by a 17-member team at Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital. 
It was believed to be only the third time at least one Siamese twin joined at the heart sur­vived separation surgery. 
"Ashil's heart couldn't sustain him, although we were able to separate him," said an exhausted Dr. Sid Cywes, who led the surgical team. "It's just a pity we couldn't save them both." 
Cywes said he was "very pleased so far" but that Ash­lay's condition remained criti­cal. 
The 5-week-old twins, from Mauritius, were brought to South Africa for the operation by the Society for Aid to Inop­erable Children in Mauritius. The surgery was the only pos­sible way to prevent both ba­bies from dying, doctors said. 
The hearts of the twins, who weighed 11 pounds together, shared a wall. They also had joined livers and shared a small bowel. 
Ashil had serious heart valve defects. Ashlay had a normal heart. 
Surgeons were able to sepa­rate the infants' hearts, liver and a common bowel, but the procedure to separate the liver "proved to be very, very diffi­cult." Cywes said. 
Cywes, who has successfully separated four other sets of Si­amese twins, called Tuesday's operation "the most challeng­ing" of his career. 
Police arrests in multimillion­dollar robbery 
TORONTO (AP) -Police ar­
rested four men Tuesday in the 
$6.47 million robbery of an 
armored car company and said 
more arrests were expected. 
Arrested were two employees of the robbed National Ar­mored Ltd.; an employee's rel­ative, and a worker for a union with an office in the same building in Concord, north of Toronto, said Inspector Don Kirk of the York Region police. 
The Nov. 29 heist was one of Canada's biggest robberies. The loot -in cash and checks -has not been recovered. 
Two masked gunmen ac­costed two guards as they ar­rived for work and forced them to unplug an alarm and reveal the vault combination. Police said someone earlier removed the tape from a video recorder to thwart taping of the robbery. 
The men -all from the Toronto area -were identified as John Fullerton, 30, and Nikolai Mazare, 27. both Na­tional employees; Nicola Ca­mardi, 27, Fullerton's brother­in-law, and Francesco Ragni, 31, the union employee. 
They will be charged with conspiracy to commit robbery. 
The Observer 

Opposition urges Takeshita to resign from lower house 
TOKYO (AP) -Three oppo­sition parties introduced a resolution in parliament Tuesday demanding that former Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita resign from the lower house because of his alleged ties to gangsters. 
Takeshita, who resigned as prime minister in 1989 in the wake of an influence-peddling scandal. has become embroiled this year in new allegations that gangsters helped him win power in 1987. 
The Socialist party, Komeito (Clean Government Party) and the Democratic Socialist Party charged in their resolution that gangsters helped silence right­ists who attempted to spoil Takeshita's campaign to be­come prime minister. 
Later Tuesday, the Communist Party said it also would support the motion. 
Testifying before the upper house Monday, however, Takeshita rejected calls that he quit Parliament. 
"My mission is to prove to the world that Japanese politics is not such that gangsters are involved in a prime minister's rise to power," he said. 
The resolution has little like­lihood of adoption by the House of Representatives, where Takeshita's fellow Liberal 

Serving 
ND/SMC 
Students for 27 years 


December 
HAPPY HOLIDAYS 
Special: 
From our Family 

House Specialty: 
to Yours. 

Oven,Baked 
Wishing You 

Apple Pancakes 
the Best in 1993. 

$1.00 Off All Month 
No Coupon Needed 
U.S. 3l(Dixieway) North in Roseland (Across from Holiday Inn) 
272-7433 Just North of Campus
Open at 6:30a.m. daily 

No Matter Which Direction You Take For Christmas Break Make Your First Stop ••• 
OIL CHANGE---......_ 
FAST WBE SYSTEMS 
Democrats hold a stable major­ity. 
Officials of the governing party, which has 27 4 seats in the 512-member lower house, indicated the resolution would not come up for action in the current extraordinary Parlia­ment session, which ends Thursday. 
Takeshita, 68. has testified before both houses of Parlia­ment that he was not aware of any gangster involvement in his bid for the premiership. 
He said he learned only in December 1988 that his power­ful political ally, Shin Kane­maru, had met with a gang boss who allegedly silenced a rightist group that was harass­ing Takeshita with sarcastic praise from loudspeaker trucks in major cities across Japan. 
Although Takeshita was prime minister in 1988, he did not order an investigation into that meeting. 
Kanemaru and Takeshita are alleged to have asked mobsters through an intermediary to si­lence the right-wing group. 
Takeshita had resigned in disgrace as prime minister in April 1989, taking responsibil­ity for an influence-peddling scandal centered around an information services and publishing conglomerate. 
On U.S. 31 Between Douglas and Cleavland Roads 271.,7767 
Wednesday, December 9, 1992 

Mirror headline. ~Gran snubs 


cSeasons 9reelings
from Jlorclan gmporls. 
Holiday Travel Inspection for Any Import Automobile 
Oil and Filter Lube Check Front End Alignment Vehicle Inspection: Hoses, Belts, Antifreeze, Exhaust System, Front and Rear Brakes, Wiper Blades, All Fluid Levels and Tire Wear Inspection Computer Balance and Tire Rotation 
Special $8999 
Any Additional Service Needed 15% OffParts and Labor 
This coupon cannot be used in connection with other parts/service coupon specials. 
Expires 12/31/92 
WHA1EVER IT TAKES, WE WANT TO BE YOUR IMPORT CAR AND TRUCK COMPANY 
CHRISTMAS BREAK SPECIAL 
$4°0 Off 
On A Full Service Oil Change 
Full Service Oil Change Includes 
1. 
Oil Change Up To 6 Quarts 

2. 
Oil Filter 


3. 
Complete Chassis Lubrication 

4. 
Courtesy Checks and Fills 


Hours Monday 8., 7 Tues ., Fri 8.,6 Sat 8--5 Closed Sunday 
-------~~--------~­
Wednesday, December 9, 1992 The Observer 
India cracks down on Hindu radicals 
NEW DELHI, India (AP) -The government cracked down on Hindu radicals Tuesday in an effort to halt religious violence triggered by the destruction of a Muslim mosque. A second day of rioting pushed the death toll past 400. 
In a rare step, the government of Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao authorized se­curity forces to shoot rioters on sight in Bombay and Bhopal, cities where extensive violence occurred. There were no im­mediate reports of large-scale shooting by police. 
The moves aimed at Hindu radicals threatened to provoke a backlash in this Hindu-domi­nated nation that could worsen violence fed by Muslim anger over the destruction of the mosque. 
Hindu fundamentalists re­acted angrily to Rao's decision to rebuild the 16th century Babri mosque, which was razed Sunday in the northwest town of Ayodhya by thousands of Hindus. The zealots say the mosque was built on the birth­place of their god Rama. 
Federal troops moved in Tuesday to clear Hindu extrem­ists and holy men from the ru­ins of the mosque, where they already had begun building a temple. 
Hindu passions also were fanned by the arrest of the top leaders of a Hindu nationalist party Tuesday and by news re­ports on Muslims wrecking and burning dozens of Hindu tem­ples in neighboring Pakistan and Bangladesh. 
Unrest was reported in most of India's 32 states and territo­ries. Indian news agencies said violence had abated only slightly since Monday, and re­ported more than 400 deaths in the two days of rioting. 
Soldiers patrolled streets of a dozen towns assisting civilian police. An estimated 10 million people spent a second day in­doors under curfew. 
Police in New Delhi and Ayo­dhya arrested the leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party on charges of inciting sectarian vi­olence. The Hindu fundamen­talist movement has grown in three years into India's second biggest politi~l party. 
The arrests caused an uproar in Parliament, which was paralyzed for the second straight day by screaming leg­islators hurling accusations at each other. The disorder has prevented Rao from appearing in the house to make a state­ment on the troubles. 
Two of the party's leaders, 
L.K. Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, were arrested at dawn at their homes in New Delhi and put under house arrest in a government guest house. 
"This is a repressive measure. We have not indulged in any act of violence," Advani told reporters as he was led away. 
He also condemned the deci­sion to rebuild the mosque and to outlaw religious fundamen­talist organizations, calling them "provocative, myopic and repressive steps." 
On Monday, a spokesman for Rao announced India would re­build the mosque. 
"There may be backlash ... we are dealing with very ruthless opponent," Rao was quoted as telling a meeting of his governing Congress party. 
The announcement fed anger on the street and among Hindu nationalists. 
"We are prepared to face any hardship" to stop recon­struction, said Giri Raj Kishore of the World Hindu Council, a fundamentalist group that led the demolition of the mosque. 
Asked by a reporter about their reaction to the decision, a group of Hindu men in New Delhi shouted, "Over our dead bodies!" 
In Ayodhya, 600 helmeted soldiers using bamboo staves and tear gas regained control of the mosque site where the radicals had built a platform and a small shrine housing an idol of Rama. The militants fought back with stones, but 
only a few minor cuts and bruises were reported from the half-hour struggle. 
After the extremists were driven away, hundreds of sol­diers surrounded the temple platform. 
COTTON BOWL 
• 
Best Air Fares 

• 
Official NO hotel 


Your only call for travel needs 


238--7080 
ANTHONY TRAVEL, INC. 
LaFortune Student Center 




TONIGHT! 
We have the best off-campus value in Michiana. Wide open spaces, a full array of 
Celebrate the last night
sporting activity areas, well appointed apartments, a secure environment, plus a 
of the semester
professional, caring management team. 
Where and how you live off-campus is important to you and its important to us. We invite comparisons because your satisfaction comes first. That's the way it 
1992
should be! Applications now being accepted for Fall 1993 


Christmas Specials 
HAPPY HOLIDAYS Campus View Apartme~ts 
9--2 

272-1441 
must be 21 


~---~-----~­
---~-------­
page 10 The Observer Wednesday, December 9, 1992 

Library fever 
Junior Bridget Graham and sophomore Anne McCasland are just two in the mass of students starting to occupy the Hesburgh Library before finals week. Although the library is decorated for the Christmas season, most students are preoccupied with their grades. 
Report: Torture worsening in Chinese prisons 
Scottish welcome more European unity 
EDINBURGH, Scotland (AP) ­With an enthusiasm born partly out of distancing themselves from the English, the Scots are 
preparing a  big welcome for  
leaders  of  the  European  
Community  who  meet  in  

Edinburgh this week. 

The Edinburgh gathering on Friday and Saturday is the final summit of a troubled six months when Britain has held the Community's rotating pres­idency. 
Community attempts to fur­ther unify have been thrown into doubt by Denmark's rejec­tion of the Maastricht Treaty, which calls for closer political and monetary union, with a common foreign policy and a single currency by 1999. 
The rejection reflected fears among some voters throughout the 12-nation bloc over a fed­eral Europe which would swal­low its individual nations. 
But the 5 million Scots seem anything but afraid of Euro­pean union. 
"The Scottish interest in Eu­rope ... means defining our­selves in European terms and avoids thinking about the English-Scottish relationship," says Willie Paterson, a profes­sor at Edinburgh University. "That's an immensely attractive experience." 
The Scots have been united with the English under a single monarch since 1707. Rebellion by clans under Bonnie Prince Charlie was crushed in 17 46. 
British Prime Minister John Major, an implacable opponent of greater autonomy for Scot­land, chose Edinburgh partly to underline the endurance of the union and the importance of Scotland. 
A new conference center wasn't completed in time, so the leaders will meet in Queen Elizabeth II's Holyrood Palace, overlooking the city. It is the official Scottish residence of the British monarch. 
The union with England spurred the 18th century Scots to emphasize their European ties. 

BEIJING (AP) -Torture of Chinese prisoners has become more widespread and brutal over the past decade as a result of repeated anti-crime cam­paigns, the human rights group Amnesty International said in a report issued Wednesday. 
Assault with stun guns, shackling in uncomfortable po­sitions, suspension in the air by the arms or feet, confinement in tiny, unlit cells, sleep depri­vation and exposure to extreme cold or heat were among some of the torture methods the London-based group described in its report. 
"We believe the law en­

However, Amnesty Interna­tional said torture is endemic in many Chinese jails. 
"One of the reasons for the increased use of torture during the past 10 years appears to have been the continuous anti­crime campaigns launched by the authorities since 1983," its
• 
report said. 

"During such campaigns, police are under instructions and often under pressure to find potential or real offenders and many arbitrary arrests are carried out. The police then often resort to torture to pro­duce faster results and force confessions." 
forcement and justice system in China actually fosters torture," the organization said, citing the emphasis on extracting con­fessions and prisoners' lack of access to lawyers. 
The Chinese government ac­knowledges police sometimes use torture to extract confes­sions, but says it is infrequent and torturers are punished when reported. In a report on the prison system in August, the government said prisoners "receive fully humane treat­ment." 
gifts thatserve the maker 
College Square Plaxa 919A West McKinley Avenue Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 (219) 255-3536 

Members of Sacred Heart Parish and the Office of Campus Ministry ' cordially invite you to join in a joyous evening of music and prayer for the Christmas Midnight Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart as a member of the Community Christmas Choir. 
Rehearsals will be held on Mondays, December 7, 14, 21 
7:00 pm -8:30 pm Crowley Hall of Music 

All ages are most welcome to join us Dr. Gail Walton on this joyous celebration Director of Music, BSH of the Lord's birth. Mr. Steven Warner 
Director of Liturgical Music Services 
Happy 19th to a woman whose neck gets red when: 
a. 
son of Clyde makes his weekly visit 

b. she commits an underwear faux-pas 

c. 
she has to see THE 


DOCTOR 
Love, the Wednecday night dancers 

REGISTER ll/30 thru 12/15/92 PHONE: 2 72-4135 
No one prepares you for the MCAT beHer than Kaplan. Our MCAT Pf'8P course teaches you exactly what the t-t covers and the a-t­taking skills you'll need to score your besL We offer live cl-, home study not-, and audio review. Plus, no one else has a moc'9 extensive MCAT resource librai'Y than Kaplan. 

KAPLAN 
The answer to the test qu-tion. 
------------------~--~----~---------·--­
' '~ 1 • ,• C l -, \ I ( (·I t t. I •I 

Wednesday, December 9, 1992 The Observer page 11 
Bosnian Serbs offer safe passage 

SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -Bosnian Serbs offered safe passage Tuesday to all seeking to leave Sarajevo, where their offensive has pushed through key neighbor­hoods and halted desperately needed food shipments. 
Battles around the airport diminished hope that aid flights would resume soon. 
The Serb offer was eyed with suspicion in Sarajevo as a pos­sible propaganda ploy and at­tempt to blame the Muslim-led Bosnian government for the thousands that may die this coming winter from cold and hunger. 
"All Serbs, Croats, Yugoslavs, Jews and all other citizens ... wishing to do so (should) prepare themselves to leave Sarajevo, threatened by cold and winter," read a statement released by the Commissioner for Refugees of the self­proclaimed Serbian Republic in 40 percent of the city's food needs has been suspended for a week. 
Peacekeepers spokesman Cmdr. Barry Frewer said plans to reopen the airport Wednes­day depended on "a great re­duction in fighting." 
The Bosnian army said four Serb tanks advanced to an area near the airport and were firing at the government-held western suburb of Dobrinja. 
Croatian TV later quoted Bosnian military sources as saying that Sarajevo defenders withdrew from Vidikovac on Mt. Trebevic, captured from the Serbs on Monday. 
At least 17,000 people have been killed and well over 100,000 officially reported missing since war broke out after the government in Sara­jevo declared Bosnia-Herzegov­ina an independent republic in February. 
begging for food. 
"People are extremely dry and haggard. They no longer resemble the photos on their ID cards, they've lost so much weight," she said. 
Many people have survived only on relief food -rice, cheese, biscuits, and maybe some canned meat. Fresh meat, milk, eggs, fruits and vegetables are unheard of for most. 
Recent hostilities have led to a drastic drop in supplies reaching Sarajevo and other parts of Bosnia. Ms. Foa said 3,500 tons reached Bosnian warehouses last week, far less than the 9,100 tons considered a minimum subsistence level. 
A U.N. peacekeepers spokeswoman, Master Cpl. Kelley Pritchard of Canada, said French troops stumbled into a cross fire when they headed out to a U.N. checkpoint on the airport road. Frewer said the 

Finals are coming!· 
Finals are coming! 
Follow the Honor Codal 
??'s, call Kami Benson X4704 or Kevin Schroeder X17SO 
Bosnia. 
The statement said Bosnian Serb authorities would "guarantee to every citizen of Sarajevo who wishes so to go to the desired location." 
But it gave no date or details on who would oversee such an exodus or how it should be carried out. 
The Bosnian government has opposed wholesale evacuation of the population of Sarajevo, saying it would render defense of the city impossible. 
While truck convoys with food and medical supplies have not been completel¥ cut off, the humanitarian airlift supplying 
At peace talks in Geneva, leaders of Bosnia's warring ethnic factions presented maps showing their ideas for provinces in the country as a way of ending the fighting, of­ficials said. 
American Cyrus Vance and Britain's Lord Owen, conference co-chairmen, have proposed geographic divisions. The Muslims say yes, but Croats balk. Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic insists Bosnia be divided into virtually autonomous ethnic states. 
Sylvana Foa, spokeswoman for the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, said children in Sarajevo were increasingly area was now a no man's land. 
All road traffic between U.N. headquarters and the airport was halted. 
Frewer said U.N. military ob­servers reported heavy fighting across the western outskirts of Sarajevo, near the airport. 
The city center around the presidency building came under steady shelling Tuesday. Small­arms fire echoed through the area. 
The Bosnian army said it severed a key road running south of Sarajevo linking the Serb headquarters at Pale, east of the capital, and the western Serb-held suburb of Ilidza near the airport. 

Planning on attending the Cotton Bowl? • Why not stay at the Ho~test brand in town? MObil Marr1ott CottonBowl •Three Great Hotels to choose from • Minutes from the Cotton Bowl Classic • Minutes from West End Market Place­Dallas' hottest night spot single or do•i>le O<<n1•'"~ $99 oi•1ie or double O<tupa•i7 9 d11gle or doable ocrupaucy$89 ~~ ,\\arnott Residence \ f-ltm. 0,\\ar~~--~~ 21 50 Market Center Blvd. 6950 Stemmons Frwy. 2383 Stemmons Trail (214) 631-2472(21 4) 653-1 166 (214) 352-7676 800-631-3131 800-321-2211 800-321-221 1All suites with kitchen. Free breakfast. Two bedroom suite rates available.Includes breakfast for two Includes breakfast for two Rates subject to availability. Some restrictions may apply. Not applicable to groups. Advance reservations required.  

page 12 The Observer Wednesday, December 9, 1992 
If operation succeeds, how will Somalia·.. ,.~~r~var1 
WASHINGTON (AP) .,.-, l,J.S. sounded Skl!pttcal of talk that forces are entering Somalia to the U.S. 'forces could withdraw stabilize a country with no by mid-January. government, devastated by "An artificial timetable can... starvation with armed bands not be imposed upon itt blocking food deliveries. Even said, though be added that lf the AtlleriCans succeed: Will respected B.ush7s the African nation slip }Jack have the tr®.P.s horne into anarchy when they leave? time. 
In one sense the U.S. mission is liniited: Use a show of overwhelming force to en<,tble relief w~rkers to do.th~!~Jqb without .illterference·t'J;oij Jb.e rival gangs. 
But left unclear are the an* swers to longer*term ques­tions. · · 
Will the U.S. forces inevitably have to take the gulls a}Vay from the warlords antt their followers? And wo~ldJhat change the nature of the thS; mission and extend it we~l be­yond what anyone now is con;.. templating? 
Can the Americans leave befotl'l there. is some s4Jm~ blance ofauthority in pl~¢e?Js there any hope of seeing ~ ill.!~ tionru government in Somalia soon. 
With all the uncertainty•. one prediction seems sure: While . Presid~~t ~ush disp(ltC~~~i~~ •· 
· u.s. troo}ls.it will fallt? ~r~~l" i·rriilli•onAlr dent Clfu:ton to decide wh¢n they come home. At a news ...n,rtt... r ..r•"'" Capitolt.on Tues!fay; suggested he'd likt~ tiidefil~e the U.~.iilli51Si0ll ll 
Clinton: World problems could hurt domestic focus 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Presi­dent-elect Clinton said Tuesday his presidency will inevitably be distracted by world problems such as Somalia and Bosnia even as he tries to keep his fo­cus on rebuilding the U.S. economy. 
"I believe our administration will be forced to spend a lot of time on foreign policy whether we want to or not," he said. 
"On balance, it is a wonderful thing that the Cold War is over," Clinton said. But with the end of the U.S.-Soviet domination of international affairs, he said, "there is more chaos in the world than there used to be." 
"Some of it is very good and positive and leads to bubbling up of market economies and personal freedoms. But some of it is very troubling," he said. 
Clinton's remarks came as enter Somalia to clear the way for food deliveries to the starv­ing in a nation where govern­ment has collapsed and private relief efforts have been foiled by feuding warlords. 
Clinton, visiting Democratic members of Congress Tuesday on his second post-election trip to the Capitol, reiterated his support for President Bush's decision to launch the operation and said he expected to face similar decisions. 
Bosnia, the ethnically torn East European country where Bush has declined to intervene militarily, might be one. 
"I understand entirely" why Bush did not want to make a commitment of ground forces there, he said. 
·The president-elect spoke at a news conference with con­gressional leaders following several hours of meetings in the 
U.S. troops were preparing to Capitol. 
US aims to 'restore sanity' to Somalia 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The 
U.S. Marines who carried off history's most advertised am­phibious landing Tuesday in Somalia hoped to "restore a level of sanity" to that starving nation but may not disarm its roving clans, officials said. 
The White House said Presi­dent Bush was "pleased by the success of the initial landing phase." His press secretary said Bush would be kept up to date on a regular basis by his national security staff in the White House Situation Room. 
"The president met with his national security advisers around 5 p.m. this afternoon for a final update on the status of the coalition preparations," said Marlin Fitzwater in a writ­ten statement. He said that Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the joint Chiefs of Staff, said the operation Somalia "was on schedule and proceeding well." 
Pete Williams, the chief Pentagon spokesman, also said after a spearhead unit of 1,800 Marines began rushing ashore Tuesday evening (Wednesday morning local time) that the operation was going well. 
"As far as we can tell every­thing is going smoothly and on time," he said as the Marines poured ashore in amphibious landing craft and assault and transport helicopters. 
The first Marines quickly seized control of the seaside airport and harbor area so that 
additional U.S. and allied armed forces could join the un­conventional mercy mission. 
Earlier, Williams said four Navy supply ships arrived in the area Tuesday with provi­sions for the U.S. landing force. He said the mission, authorized by the United Nations, was strictly humanitarian. 
"They need somebody to re­store a level of sanity," he said. 
At the White House, press secretary Marlin Fitzwater said President Bush would be kept abreast of developments in Somalia by his national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft, "throughout the evening and tonight as necessary." 
Armed bandits and looters, many of them teenagers, have paralyzed international relief agencies' efforts to feed the hundreds of thousands of starv­ing Somalis. Tons of donated food are already in Somalia but cannot be distributed because of the threat of violence. 
Williams said some of the U.S. forces would drop leaflets and broadcast messages explaining why th~ Marines had intervened. 
"The Americans are coming and they're here to help; they're here to feed," Williams said. "They're not here to ob­struct; they're not here to cause violence. They're here to bring a sense of order so that humanitarian relief can get 
going again." Williams said it had not yet been determined whether the 
U.S. forces would attempt to disarm the armed clans. 
"Disarmament is not an end in itself," he said. "It's a means to an end to provide for a secure atmosphere in which the relief workers can do the job to get the food to the people." 
Besides the four Navy supply ships and the three ships carry­ing the 1,800 Marines, the Navy had the aircraft carrier USS Ranger and three of its escort vessels off the Somali coast. 
Williams said 10,000 soldiers of the Army's 1Oth Mountain Division, a light infantry unit based at Ft. Drum, N.Y., con­tinued to get ready for deploy­ment to Somalia, but had not yet been given the formal order to head out. 
Also, 16,000 members of the 1st Marine Expeditionary Force, based at Camp Pendle­ton, Calif., were preparing to join Operation Hestore Hope. 
A Pentagon source, who spoke only on condition of anonymity, said an "air bridge" of Air Force refueling aircraft had been established along the anticipated route for Air Force cargo planes supplying the U.S. forces. 
The source said 12 tanker aircraft were in position at La­jes Field in the Azores in the Atlantic and 12 more were at Moron Air Base in Spain. 


University of Miami 
GRADUATE BUSINESS PROGRAMS School of Business Administration 
• one-year MBA program for BBAs 
• 
two-year MBA program for non-business majors 

• 
highly flexible curriculum 

• 
customized p.rograms with up to 8 electives 

• 
choose from day and evening classes 

• 
many scholarships available 

• 
placement office dedicated solely to finding career opportunities for graduate business students 

• 
dual degree MBA/MS. lnternat'l Business available with languuage training and internship included 


Faculty teaching in our MBA program are nationally recognized in the fields of International Business, Health Administration, Accounting, Computer Information Systems, Finance, Marketing, Telecommunications, Management, Leadership, and Organizational Behavior. 
Brochures and applications are available for all our business masters programs: 
MBA  MS, CIS  
Masters in International Business (MBA/MSIB)  MA, Economics  
Master of Professional Accounting  MS, Tax  
Master of Public Administration  MS, Operations Research  

For more information,call toll free 800·531·7137 
Or write: Graduate Business Programs, University of Miami 
P.O. Box 248505, Coral Gables, FL 33124-6524 
@ THlEE CHEER5Fo~SicYBUsTE]t -;To#~$ 
'~_..---~ 
VfctotictS Reo.( ~ec·re-f 
CH;set 

Brt011, Coli", &Vince. 







' I f t t t I • ) ~ I , J ~ I I I I 
Wednesday, December 9, 1992 The Observer page 13 
Cold War cockpit to Somalian human catastrophe 
Superpower strategists once grandly dubbed a broad swath of troubled Asian and African nations "the arc of crisis," and anchored it with poor, remote Somalia. 
Now the arc has come full circle, outsiders are shipping grain instead of guns, and some are blaming the superpowers for a human catastrophe. 
The U.S. troops hitting the beaches of Somalia will find American fingerprints on the weapons that litter the devas­tated African land. In 21 years as Somali dictator, Mohamed Siad Barre was bestowed with thousands of tons of rifles, ar­tillery and other arms -first Soviet, then U.S. -as the Cold War giants jockeyed for geopo­litical advantage. 
"They were the countries that really retained him in power," a former military aide, Brig. Gen. Abucar Liban, says of the toppled president. " ... I think today we see the results of this combination of armaments in the country." 
The "results" are armed an­archy. Thousands of youths, some loyal to a rebel faction, some simply free-lance racke­teers, picked up the weapons and took charge of much of Somalia this year, looting food meant for starving Somalis, extorting small fortunes from aid workers. 
But the stage was set for chaos in another way, too. 
Siad Barre, the superpower protege, had destroyed much of the inner workings of Somali society -political parties, pro­fessional groups, the National Assembly. a free press. He even forbade wedding parties unless they were government­supervised. 
The Somalia that finally overthrew its tyrant in January 1991 was less a nation than a collection of clan-based armed bands. And the bands next turned on each other. 
'The savagery of the fighting points up the absence of civilian institutions to mediate the con­flict -an absence that is the legacy of 21 years of dictator­ship under Mohamed Siad Barre," writes Rakiya Omaar, a Somali who until recently headed the Africa Watch hu­man rights organization. 
To Cold War planners, So­malia was a backwater until 1979, ·a year of crisis that began with the anti-American revolution in Iran and ended with the Soviet military inter­vention in Afghanistan. 
Strategists suddenly found a troubling "arc" on their maps, an Islamic crescent stretching from the Afghan mountains, through Iran and the Arab states of the Persian Gulf, to the Horn of Africa. 
In Washington, "scenarios" 

Special Champion Holiday Offer! 
December 11th -December 18th 

FREE GIFT 

BUY TWO REVERSE WEAVE"' 
Stop by the Bookstore 's sponswear department for a great 
SWEATSHIRTS* AND RECEIVE 
selection a/ C/1ampion~ styles and colors. Authentic 
THIS SPECIAL CHAMPION GIFT 
at/1/ctic apparel that's toug/1-com/ortabfe-c/assic. 
FREE' tWHILE SUPPLIES LAST I 
In sports, in l;je and in our clothes, it takes a little more to make a Champion. 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus" open Monday through Saturday 9a.m. -Sp.m . 
Stop in and register to win a free Champion sports bag filled with aurhemic Champion athletic apparel -a $250 value! _: _____------------------------------------­
-------·----~· 
unreeled: The Soviets grab Gulf oil; Iran's revolutionaries un­dermine Saudi Arabia; the So­viets gain a "blue water" port in Pakistan. The Kremlin saw its own scenario: The Americans are working to surround us. 
In Somalia, the "scientific socialist" Siad Barre seized power in 1969 and aligned himself with Moscow. But when he invaded neighboring Ethiopia in 1977, the Soviets abandoned him and threw their military support to Ethiopia's new Marxist government. Somalia retreated. 
By 1979, Siad Barre was in the American camp, and So­malia's ports became a stopover base for Navy task forces patrolling the sea lanes of the "arc." The flow of weapons began. 
David Eisenberg of the Center for Defense Information, a private research group in Washington, calculates the United States supplied Somalia with $206 million in military hardware through the 1980s, including everything from M-16 assault rifles to 105mm howitzers to Hawk anti-aircraft missiles. 
A huge new U.S. Embassy, with a staff of 430, opened in late 1989 in Mogadishu, the capital, symbolizing the Ameri­can stake in Somalia. But by then that stake was being with­drawn. Washington had already suspended military training programs and shipments of lethal weapons to Somalia, to protest "gruesome" human rights abuses by Siad Barre's military. 
U.S. congressional auditors had reported that in June 1988 a U.S. shipment of M-16s and millions of rounds of ammuni­tion reached government troops in rebellious northern Somalia, where they were used in bloody attacks on civilians. 

Pentagon officials criticize coverage of Marine landing 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Senior Pentagon officials expressed dismay Tuesday at news cover­age of the first landing of Amer­ican troops in Somalia, saying the use of television lights on the beach put the troops' lives at risk unnecessarily. 
"These are troops that are trained to work in the dark, that have night vision equip­ment and that were surprised, to say the least, by all the lights and flashes," said Pete Williams, the assistant defense secretary for public affairs. 
Pentagon officials had en­couraged coverage by giving news organizations advance notice of the landing time and place. 
Marine Maj. ~rank Libutti, briefing reporters in Mogadishu earlier Tuesday, virtually invited reporters onto the beach, saying they could freely cover the troops' arrival. 
However, Pentagon officials complained Tuesday night that there should have been no camera lighting of the beach because it made potential tar­gets of the landing troops. 
Network officials said the Pentagon should have advised them not to use camera light­ing. 
NBC News said it had already aired its first report on the landing before the Pentagon requested that lights not be used. 
"We aired our first reports a little before 5 o'clock. It was after that that the Pentagon asked us not to use lights," said spokesman Tory Beilinson. "Once the Pentagon called the 
networks and made this re­
quest, we've complied since 
then." 
Tom Goodman, spokesman for 
CBS News, says CBS first 
showed pictures from Somalia 
at 4:50p.m. and got the request 
from the Pentagon "within an 
hour." 
"If the Pentagon had said 
earlier that lights might have 
been some kind of problem, 
there's no question that they 
would not have been used," 
Goodman said. "The word did 
not come down until after the 
fact, and we immediately 
complied." 
ABC News spokesman Arnot 
Walker said the network "did 
not use lights on the beach, nor 
would we want to endanger 
lives of American troops." 
Col. Dave Burpee, director of 
the Directorate of Defense In­
formation at the Pentagon, said 
many private citizens had 
called his office after seeing the 
live television coverage Tuesday 
evening of advance forces 
arriving on -Somalia's shores. 

"We're getting a lot of phone . calls . . . expressing everything 
from frustration to anger," 
Burpee said. He said the callers 
included relatives of troops in­
volved in Operation Restore 
Hope. 
After the advance teams ar­
rived on the Somali beaches, 
the Pentagon issued a "press 
advisory" asking that members 
of the news media in Somalia 
keep off the landing beaches 
and paved areas around the 
airport where the main 
contingent of 1,800 Marines 
was arriving later. 

Our little girl is 18 today. Happy 18th 

Birthday~ 
Theresa Hennessey 

Love, Mom and Dad, Patrick, Kieran and Billy 

page 14 The Observer Wednesday, December 9, 1992 

Clinton to resign as Ark. Governor on Saturday 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) ­President-elect Clinton will. re­sign as governor of Arkansas on Saturday and Lt. Gov. Jim Guy Tucker will be sworn in as his successor, the governor's office said Tuesday. 
Tucker, 46, will become the state's 43rd governor in a cer­emony at the state Capitol. 
Clinton, who will be inaugu­rated as president Jan. 20, had put off resigning as governor for weeks while the state Supreme Court ruled on whether the lieutenant gover­nor should succeed him or a special election was required. 
The court ruled Friday that Tucker should assume the du­ties, responsibilities and title of governor when Clinton resigns. 
The lieutenant governor has served as the state's chief ex­ecutive most of the time since Clinton began his presidential campaign on Oct. 6, 1991. 
Tucker has overseen the drafting of a new state budget in advance of the upcoming General Assembly, which con­venes Jan. 11. He issued a call for a special legislative session Tuesday to address the state's Medicaid funding crisis. The session will begin Monday. 
"I think the transition has been smooth, will continue to be smooth and I don't antici­pate any problems," said state Rep. John Miller, who helped steer many of Clinton's major initiatives through the House. 
Clinton and Tucker were most recently elected to the state posts in 1990. They both are Democrats but didn't run on a ticket together. 
Good Luck on Finals ! 
OFFERING: 
I Private Kindergarten, Enrichment and After School Programs 
I Full & Part-time Schedules 
I Degreed Teachers 
FOR MORE INFORMA T/ON CALL: 
234-2747 

At Madison Center on the Race 403 E. Madison St. South Bend, IN 46617 
Counsel probes Iraqi loan scandal report 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A special counsel probing possible Bush administration illegality in the case of massive bank loans to Iraq was putting the finishing touches Tuesday on a lengthy report on the case for Attorney General William Barr. 
The counsel, retired federal judge Frederick Lacey, planned to deliver the report to Barr's office in the evening, said Justice Department spokesman Paul McNulty. 
Barr and Lacey said they would have no comment. for now on whether Lacey was 
FDA allows marketing of more experimental drugs 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Food and Drug Administration will soon make more experi­mental drugs available quickly if they show promise of treating fatal or disabling diseases, the agency said Tuesday. 
The announcement means that the new rules, under con­sideration for months, could take effect in about 30 days. 
"Accelerated approval, con­ditional approval, these were innovations built upon the 

,

........; 
\ ....... 

{ 
·...., l­
~·~· ·~ £1. 
Featunng: Erotica • Bad Gin • Why's It So Hard 
CD $10.99 

ND 
Edison Rd. 

recommending that a court­appointed independent prose­cutor take over the case. 
Lacey was picked by Barr to investigate the case and decide whether there is enough evi­dence of possible criminal wrongdoing to warrant an in­dependent counsel. 
Barr has until Dec. 15, when the independent counsel law expires, to call for appointment of an independent prosecutor by a special three-judge federal court. 
The case poses a dilemma for Barr and the Bush adminis­
agency's commitment to pro­vide access to experimental drugs for those dying of life­threatening disorders," FDA Commissioner David Kessler said in a speech Tuesday. 
While there has been widespread approval for getting experimental drugs into the hands of people dying from such diseases as AIDS and cancer, some in Congress have criticized the Bush administra­tion for wanting to do likewise 
CD $10.99 CD $10.99 


CD $10.99 CD $10.99 
r------------------------,
H 0 uR s: '.tl'RACC:O : 
1631 Edison Rd. 
277-8338 

I  RECORDS  I  
I l  $222 ort any CDs  I l  
I  I  
I  Ho Limit  1  
1 1  Excludes Sale Items, Singles, Used 6 Imports Coupon Expires: 12/16/92  I I  

L------------------------~ 
tration. 

Barr generally is opposed in principle to calling for ap­pointment of independent counsels, arguing the Justice Department is competent to handle such sensitive cases. 
But refusing to call for an in­dependent prosecutor in the Iraq loan case could mean President-elect Clinton's ad­ministration will do the investi­gating. 
At issue is whether the Bush administration approved aid that may have helped build up 
with drugs that treat less seri­ous ailments. 
A fall report by the House Government Operations Committee complained about that. 
Rep. Donald Payne, D-N.J., said he supported use of such drugs to aid the dying but said the White House was forcing the FDA to allow the use of experimental drugs for less­than -life-threatening illness. 
"This is nothing more than a 

' 



Saddam Hussein's military prior to the Persian Gulf War and whether the administration later tried to cover up its alleged approval of the aid. 
Last month, Lacey said he had found sufficient credible al­legations that government offi­cials may have violated that law. Lacey therefore recom­mended, and Barr approved, a preliminary inquiry into the al­legations. 
The results of that inquiry were being put into final form Tuesday by Lacey and his staff. 
parting gift from the Bush ad­ministration to those who seek to lower FDA's approval stan­dards for all drugs," said Payne, chairman of the Government Operations subcommittee on human resources. 
The rules came from the Council on Competitiveness, chaired by vice President Dan Quayle. The panel had recom­mended accelerated approval for drugs for "any condition, regardless of its severity. 

··-·---~-----.._.-..... _..,_""""-_ ..-..._4~.:... -.-........,.......~..z....,.,.,.--.-.-.....r.~~...-...........--.---..J 
Wednesday, December 9, 1992 The Observer page 15 
Gay groups offer Clinton help 
Gay groups and civil rights organizations have begun to draft sample executive orders to offer the Clinton administra­tion on how to end the mili­tary's ban on homosexuals. 
Some of the proposals call for the creation of an advisory committee to assist the Defense Department ~and anti-homo­phobia training for officers who would carry out the policy. 
A presidential order also should restore health benefits, upgrade a less-than-honorable discharge and allow gays to re­enlist, one coalition says. And any new code of conduct should govern the sexual behavior of gay and straight soldiers, gay activists say. 
"Inevitably, you are going to have situations of inappropriate conduct by heterosexuals and gay people. When it happens they should be disciplined," said Mary Newcombe, attorney for ex-.Col. Margarethe Cam­mermeyer, recently discharged from the National Guard in Washington state after disclosing her homosexuality. "But making the presumption that only gay people will commit a sexual crime is unfair and inaccurate." 
More than 15,000 people have been discharged from the military since 1982 because they were gay. At least 300 others may face administrative discharge hearings, according to estimates by the Military Law Task Force of the National Lawyers Guild. 
President-elect Clinton has said homosexuality should not bar anyone from serving in the armed forces. He said he plans to consult with military leaders and others to overturn the ban. 
Los Angeles corporate con­sultant David Mixner, who served as a senior adviser to the Clinton campaign on gay and lesbian issues, said the presidential transition team is soliciting information on the ban from several federal agen­cies. Input from gay groups would be welcomed, he said. 
The Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund, which Newcombe works for, and the Military Freedom Project, a Washington D.C.-based coali­tion, are drafting sample execu­tive orders. 
The coalition includes the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual Veterans of America; National Organization for Women; American Civil Liberties Union; National Gay, Lesbian Task Force; and the American Psychological Association. 
The proposal drafted by the Military Freedom Project would add "sexual orientation" to a 1948 order signed by President Truman that called for "equality of treatment and op­portunity for all persons in the armed services without regard to race, color, religion or na­tional origin." 
The project's order would ban discrimination of gays in • military recruitment, job as­signments and promotion. It also would have all negative references to homosexuals stricken from documents, said Tanya Domi, national board member for the Gay, Lesbian Bisexual Veterans of America. 
Reversing the ban could save the military money, she said. 
A recent General Accounting Office study found the military spent almost half a billion dol­lars between 1980-1990 to kick out homosexuals. 

Clinton settles on Panetta for Budget director; near other decisions 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent-elect Clinton has decided on House Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta as budget director and is near fi­nal decisions on the rest of his economic team, transition and financial-community sources said Tuesday. 
Clinton also is expected to give top economic jobs to Robert Rubin, co-chairman of the banking investment firm of Goldman, Sachs & Co. and to economist Laurence Summers, a member of his transition team, the sources said. 
Rubin is expected to be White House economic security ad­viser, a new position; and Summers is said to be the leading contender to be chair­man of the Council of Economic Advisers. 
Sources earlier had said Clinton has selected Texas Sen. Lloyd Bentsen to be Treasury secretary and New York in­vestment banker Roger Altman to be deputy secretary. 
Those formal announcements are expected later this week, said officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity. 
Panetta spokesman Barry Toiv said Tuesday that the California Democrat "hasn't heard" a firm offer from Clinton for the budget spot. 
But other sources said that the 

New Homestyle Dinners like Meatloaf, Countty Fried Steak, Barbecued Chicken, Ham Steak and Pot Roast. New Homestyle vegetables such as Baked Sweet Potatoes, Green Beans, Mashed Potatoes, Broccoli and Cheese and 
~~~~s ~G~;C:~~a~~psles.wHhileobrNeadEand~sh~oney's To-Eat S6up, Salad & Fmit Bar may seem like gravy, they're really the H l D. ..,
icing on the cake. omesty e mners 
303 Dixie Way South, Roselan~ 
decision has already been made. 
Panetta, 54, would bring to the job an intimate knowledge of the budget process. He has had a role in nearly every major piece of fiscal legislation over the last decade. He has put a heavy emphasis on the need to reduce the deficit and is the author of a five-year proposal to erase federal deficits with spending cuts and tax in­creases. 
The selections of Bentsen and· Panetta were seen even as a signal to Congress of Clinton's willingness to work as a team with Congress. The ap­pointments would also ease the way for Clinton's major initia­tives. 
Bentsen, Altman and Panetta are "done deals." said one Democratic source. 
It was not clear what other selections Clinton might an­nounce this week, but Rubin and Summers seemed likely, the sources said. 
Rubin was said to be the fa­vorite for the economic-security post, which Clinton has said would be the domestic equiva­lent of the current national se­curity adviser's post. 
Summers was believed to be Clinton's first choice for the Council of Economic Advisers. 
But sources said that former Congressional Budget Office di­rector Alice Rivlin and Robert Reich, the head of economic policy for the transition, might still be in the running 
Investment banker Rubin, 54, was a major fundraiser to Clinton's campaign and has 
NOW HIRING 
Responsible woman to work 2·8 hours per week as 
PERSONAL ASSISTANT 
for physically handicapped female N D student on campus Call Kim 289·4831 
-

Notre Dame 1993 College Bowl Tournament 
Deadline for submitting entries: 
January 14, 1993 
Send team rosters to: Dr. Peter Lombardo Center for Continuing Education Notre Dame 
Call 239-6691 for information packet 
Play begins--Saturday, January 16, 1993 
served as an informal adviser to 
the Arkansas governor. He has ­
been with Goldman Sachs & Co. 
for a quarter century. 
Summers, 48, took a leave from Harvard University to be­come chief economist for the World Bank, and a leave from the bank to help out in Clinton's transition. He was 1988 Demo­cratic presidential nominee Michael Dukakis' chief eco­nomic adviser. 
Meanwhile, invitations were going out for the Dec. 14-15 economic conference Clinton has scheduled in Little Rock. More than 200 leaders of busi­ness, labor, interest groups and academia are expected to attend. 
Both labor and business were 

to be well represented. 
Labor leaders got roughly a dozen invitations. Their dele­gation was to be headed by AFL-CIO Secretary-Treasurer Thomas Donahue. 
A delegation of manufacturing industry officials was to be led by Bob Cizek, chief executive officer of Cooper Industries and chairman of the National Association of Manufacturers. 
Jerry Jasinowski, NAM pres­ident, said the organization was pleased that Clinton had in­cluded so many of its members. 
Among the business leaders invited were chief executive of­ficers John Ong of Goodrich, Frank Popoff of Dow Chemical, Paul Allaire of Xerox, Paul O'Neill of Alcoa, John Bryan of Sarah Lee, Roger Johnson of Western Digital and Charles Corry of USX. 
A number of special-interest groups also were being invited, including the leaders of Fami­lies USA, a social-policy group; and ACORN, an activist group that backs inner-city redevelop­ing. 
Also on the guest list: former Hewlett-Packard chairman John Young, who recently took his name out of contention for Commerce secretary; and Washington-based trade spe­cialist Paula Stern, viewed by some as a contender for U.S. trade representative. 
Viewpoint 
page 16 Wednesday, December 9, 1992 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor.......••..•......•... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor.................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor...Anna Marie Tabor Controller........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Impossible' for Catholic Church to ordain women 
Dear Editor: called to the ordained Priest­also forbade women to hold an ministry, but they forcibly push claim that this sets an example 
hood, although all are called to official teaching office in the themselves in... by proxy." for the Church of Rome to fol­
Recently, much has been the Priesthood of All Believers. Church, and himself ordained Others like Sts. Irenaeus, low. However, a distinction must written in The Observer, both in The Sacraments of initiation are no women. Prejudice did exist. Tertullian and Bonaventure, be made. The churches who articles and letters, concerning Baptism, Chrismation, and However, denying women have discussed the question owe their existence to the ordination. With the recent Eucharist -not Ordination. The Ordination only admits of a dis­throughout the centuries, Reformation of the Sixteenth decision of the Church of Eng­Church realizes that individual tinction between men and always with the same answer. century have, over the years land to "ordain" women to its members are called to diverse women (which some in the Our sister churches of Eastern and for various reasons lost the priesthood, many have pro­ministries. Ordination is a modern day would like to deny Orthodoxy, who have preserved valid Sacrament of Ordination. posed that the Catholic Church calling and a responsibility, not out of existence) and not an unequivocally a valid They have practices, cere­rethink its teaching and prac­a right which can be demanded inequality. Some will turn to Ordination, agree with the monies, and ministries which tice on the subject. The lan­and claimed. Above all, it is a references to the office of Dea­Western and Eastern Uniate use the word "ordination" but guage used to describe the Sacrament -not merely a coness for justification. Churches by also recognizing in its proper sense of being Church's practice has been that ceremony which follows a However, the Ecumenical that women cannot be or­passed down from the Apostles of "forbid" and "ban" etc. words Masters of Divinity. Council at Nicaea in 325 shows dained. However, our separated through the bishops, they are which imply that the Church Some claim that this is a that Deaconess was not an or­brethren in the West, notably completely lacking of it. An has decided not to confer the modern problem which did not dained ministry because they the Anglican community, have Anglican bishop cannot confer a sacrament upon women and occur to the early Church be­did not receive any imposition seen fit to admit women to Sacrament which he has not further that such a decision cause of its prejudices against of hands and are in all respects pastoral roles on a par with himself (or herself!) validly re­may someday be reversed. women. They point to St. Paul's part of the laity (Canon 19.) St. men. ceived. 
However, it mU:st be under­letter to the Galatians (3:28) on John Chrysostom (3rd Letter to The recent discussion of this Such practices by Protestants, stood that the Church does not the equality of men and women Priests) also dealt with the is­issue has been encouraged by Anglicans, et. al. serve only to forbid the ordination of women, as an effort to overcome this. sue, saying that "the divine law the Church of England's deci­separate them further from the rather she recognizes that such However, that same St. Paul also exclude(s) women from this sion to "ordain" women. Some Orthodox Church and make the a practice is impossible. "The task of re-union (a goal for Church... does not consider which we must all strive) more 
Only some members of Flanner Hall Christ's Mystical Body are Dec. 7, 1992 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

1/M... ~Y,I IXJN'TJ<N()t(J OTIS Ra/1?/NG'S 8/KTHPIAC£. 
NOIJJ THeN, U3T'5 RN/JOUTA U77U 
ABOUT Yall< 5&N~ OF GtN£RAT!ONAl-IP!3N­
TI~ 9/AU..tU£? 
UM... \ 
O~Y. 
I 

PtM513 AN5W£R. TH£ fOUOIU!NG 
CK/£$170V. HAVING A PR/i5!­
aNTRa.J3Hl-Y YaJRaiJ'tlACf3 
MAK£'3 YOU Fe&/-HOW? 
A)OW; 8)1NAveQUA7!3; 
c) /..IKE: A 7lJ171l-F:t/1/lJRE. 
TH05CAR& TH&ONl-Y IF YOU'Re­CHO!C£5? HONesT. 
I \ 

'The sign of Christmas is a 
star, a light in darkness. See it not outside yourself, but shining in the heaven within.' 
'A Course in Miracles' 

Enjoy bliss while you have it. QUOTES, PO. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
''.' ' 
'. ''.' . '. ' .. 
1993 Cotton Bowl 

Shiny Happy Lou 


Novenber28, and Texas A&M beat T&xas, 31~13 on Thanksgiving. 
FYI: Notre Dame has an 11-6 record in bowls. In the Cotton Bowl, the Irish are 3~2. 
Lou Holtz-coached teams at Notre DaJil~ h~ve,gone .to New Year's Day bowls in six ofseven seasons. 
SCHEDULES 
lEXASA&M 
-. -vs. Stanford W10~7 
~~·y·.-:-·· 31 
'""'"""''""·"·"7 NoVember14 TCU November 26 at Texas 
STAFF BOX 
11-'roduction: Melissa Cusack Ads: Kevin Hardman Design: Mike Scrudato 
Jenny Marten 

Rolando de Aguiar Lab Tech: Jake Peters CQ\I~r~bgto: ~ndr~'vV MpCio,~keJ _,
L-~~===-~~~~~~~~~~ 
Notre Dame vs. Texas A& M Wednesday, December 9, 1992 
A Total Team Player 
Brian Hamilton shines in starting role 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 

At Notre Dame, a university that attracts students that tend to be very forward­looking and very individualistic, it is hard to find many students who are strictly team players. 
Brian Hamilton is one of the few. 
The junior defensive tackle attributes much of his success to his teammates. 
"The guys around me, they play really hard and that makes you want to play your best and not let them down," said Hamilton. 
"You have to be (a team player) on defense. One person misses an assignment and it can throw the whole defense off," Hamilton added. 
Although he came out of the USC game with one of his best performances of the year, Hamilton went into the game thinking of the seniors on the team. 
"I played as hard as I could. 
"Starting has helped me bring the attitude out that I needed. I was laid back in the beginning and that hurt my playing time." 
-Brian Hamilton 
It was the seniors' last regular season game and we wanted to send them out on a good note," said Hamilton." 
An easy going and laid back guy, Hamilton sometimes finds that he's too relaxed and needs a little push to get going. 
In the past, the push has come from the guys on the 
Hamilton (90) applies pressure to BYU quarterback Ryan Hancock. The defensive end has four sacks on the season. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

''I've grown up playing a lot of sports and I like being competitive on and off the field," said Hamilton adding about his teammates, "we get along and stiek together really well and we're there for each 
I other and we're there for each other." 
A preseason ankle injury put Hamilton on the sidelines for the first three games of the year. When he came back, he did not have a spot in the starting lineup. 
"I thought it would set me back," said Hamilton. who has three-and-a -half tackles for losses. "It still comes back every now and then, but it's nothing major." 
He eventually earned his first season and career start 
~~:~i~d t~:ll ~~~~g~~~n;~mba~~

e server/ yle Kusek • 
Brian Hamilton credits his teammates for a lot of his success. The a regular agamst Boston 
junior says they and his coaches are sources of inspiration. 
team, but this year that push 
has come from the coaches as 
well as his teammates. 

"I dedicate that to the new 
coaching staff," said 
Hamilton. "I've got a fiery 
coach in (Mike) Trgovac. I'm a 
laid back guy and he's there 
to push me." 

The arrival of defensive line 
coach Trgovac, defensive 
coordinator Rick Minter and 
the new system that the 
coaches designed has 
improved the defense 
according to Hamilton. 

"It's a real diverse system. 
It's a little complicated, but 
now that we're used to it, it 
has helped us out," added 
Hamilton. 

Despite a stellar high school 
career, Hamilton had only· limited game experience . before this season notching eight seconds in his freshman campaign and four minutes in six different games in his sophomore year as a reserve defensive tackle and on 
special teams. 

At Saint Rita High School in 
Chicago, Hamilton played 
linebacker, tight end and 
defensive end as well as 
defensive tackle. 

His play earned him numerous honors including a first-team pick on the USA Today prep All-American team and Most Valuable Player of the Chicago Catholic League in his senior campaign. 
He was heavily recruited by Notre Dame foes, USC, Michigan and Tennessee, but chose to play for the Irish 
based  on  the  school's  
academic  and  athletic  
traditions.  
Hamilton  admitted  to  

teasing some of the fellows that he knows on the Trojan team after the Irish's 31-23 win. 
Coming into the 1992 season, Hamilton was slated as the back-up to Eric Jones,. but he got a break when Jones decided not to return to the football team this year for personal reasons to move Hamilton up to the starting position. 
He wasn't ready to give up hope after his first two seasons and was driven by several things including the competitive nature of football and, big surprise, the rest of the team. 
College, Penn State and USC. 
He has been an integral part of_the _Irish's late-season defensive Improvement, as Notre Dame has held opponents to 13.25 points per game in which Hamilton has started. 
Against Southern Cal, Hamilton had an outstanding performance to bring his season total for sacks to four for 41 yards and his total for tackles to 22. 
He has proved solid on stopping the run with a nose for the ball and the agility to get to the ball, but Hamilton would like to improve his strength now that he has the starting job. 
Looking back, Hamilton admits that the starting role has changed his attitude. 
"Starting has helped me bring the attitude out that I needed. I was laid back in the beginning and that hurt my playing time," said Hamilton. 
Looking ahead, Hamilton wants to continue to contribute to the team. 
"I just want to continue to improve. play the best I can and help the team out in any way I possibly can," Hamilton added. 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

Wednesday, December 9, 1992 Notre Dame vs. Texas A&M page 3 
Norman learning lessons for a lifetime 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
While the majority of the football team is busy memoriz­ing principles of accounting and marketing strategies, offensive guard Todd Norman is analyzing poetry or writing a critical essay, 
Norman is the only English major on the Irish roster, and he takes some heat from his business major teammates for it. 
"I take a little guff from the guys, but it's all in good humor," Norman said. "I want to try to get the most I can from here, and I feel that English gives you the most options. You have the opportunity to express yourself in writing and use your verbal skills. Those are things you are going to use for the rest of your life." 
Norman, who had a 3.082 GPA last spring, decided on English to plan for his future. If football does not work out as a career. he thinks that law school is a distinct possibility. 
But, for right now, the six­foot-six, 289-pound guard is content with life as a student­athlete. Norman, who did not see any varsity action as a freshman. plans to return to Notre Dame for a fifth-year in 1993 and complete his work toward a degree in economics, his second major. 
Another reason for returning is the possibility of going through a season injury-free. This season Norman has missed time on two separate occasions 

with a knee injury and then a goal was to start every game, was tough on the (offensive) line broken thumb. and I wasn't able to do that," as a whole. With linemen, a lot "The injuries were difficult for Norman commented. "Also, depends on timing and 
me. Going into the season, my being in and out of the lineup continuity." 
This was evident in the Irish's last regular-season game against USC, as Reggie Brooks and Jerome Bettis combined for 316 yards rushing against the Trojan defense which entered the game ranked sixth in the nation against the run. 
"As a whole, I'd say the USC game was our best game. Ev­erything seemed to be clicking," Norman said. "It makes you wonder what would have happened if we had gotten the chance to play together all sea­son." 
Though Norman does not feel the line played as well as it could all year, Brooks' numbers are an indication of the line's solid play throughout the year. His 8.04 yards per carry rank second behind George Gipp on the Notre Dame list in that category. 
"It feels good to have a back that averagf)s eight yards per carry. It gives the line a sense of pride and accomplishment," Norman explained. 
And Brooks has helped the line develop this sense, as he has praised the line time and time again all season. 
"I ran the ball well, but you have to attribute that to the blocking. I had some massive holes to run through. The only thing I had to do was make the reads," Brooks said after a 157­yard performance against Northwestern. 
"Reggie is very gracious to us, and we (the .linemen) know he appreciates us," Norman said. "That makes you want to work harder for the guy. He doesn't have to do that." 
~-,· ..:.~ -,... ·1 .. . ­

The Notre Dame Varsity Shop •JACC• 
I 

r1s mas 


Friday, December 11u1-Sunday, December 20th 
11:00 a.m. to 6:00p.m. 
in the boxing room only Enter at Gate #3 
SAlES. ON SElECTED HIGH QUAliTY MERCHANDISE 
Merry Christmas and!J{appy 'J\[gw ~ar 


from the Notre Dame Varsity Shop 
-

--------~--­
page 4 Notre Dame vs. Texas A&M Wednesday, December 9, 1992 


Irish have storied post-season past 
By JIM VOGL 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Membership has its privileges. 
Critics use this slogan, seen around campus on t-shirts last season, to attack Notre Dame for their undeserving bowl bids. They say the Irish use irrelevant factors-strong tradition, alumni allegiance, national fan support and profit potential-to their unfair advantage. 
This year is no exception. The anti-Notre Dame contingent will complain that number-three Florida State is better suited than the fifth-ranked Irish to face undefeated Texas A&M in the Cotton Bowl. 
But Notre Dame's other strength, their record in post­season competition, speaks for itself. Last year, so called ex­perts scoffed at Sugar Bowl of­ficials for picking the 18th­ranked Irish to play number­three Florida. The Cheerios joke got mentioned more times than the names Rick Mirer, Jerome Bettis or Rodney Culver. Lou Holtz's inspired squad, however, made critics eat their words with a resounding 39-28 win. 
Rumors that Notre Dame got special treatment in 
when Gerry Faust 
a c ­cepted a bid to play 12th­ranked Boston College in the Liberty Bowl. That year, the Irish finished just 6-4, including consecutive losses to Pitt, Penn State and Air Force to end the season. 
But Faust confident unranked team would make a good show­ing. Notre Dame' strong fensive per­
defeated Longhorns 38-10. The win, sparked by Vegas Fergu­son's 100 yards rushing, pro­pelled Notre Dame to the top spot in the polls. 
The following season Joe Montana led the Irish to one of the greatest comebacks in col­lege football history. Montana, who missed most of the third quarter because of below-nor­mal body temperature, and the Irish scored 23 points in the fi­nal 7:25 to escape Dallas with a 35-34 win. 
Lou Holtz has led the Irish to six straight New Year's Day games after a seven-year ab­sence including the entire Gerry Faust reign and Holtz's first season. The first game in the bowl streak came, ironically, in the Cotton Bowl against Texas A&M. 
The Aggies humiliated the Irish, 35-10. Just as A&M stole Tim Brown's Heisman Trophy towel, the Aggies stole Notre Dame's pride. The Irish, who came in ranked 13th in the UPI coaches' poll, finished unranked in the poll following their third loss of the season that year. But the following season, the Irish redeemed themselves, offering fans their most glorious memory in recent times. Their resounding 34-21 victory over previously undefeated West Virginia culminated a perfect 12­0 natlonal 
championship season. 
game affirmed Tony Rice as a true leader at quarterback and put a freshman named Raghib Ismail in the national spotlight. Rice went seven-for-eleven for 213 yards, while Is­mail snared a 29­yard pass to put the team up 23-3 
o t r e

Tim Brown
formance proved 
Faust right, as Doug Flutie's desperation fell incomplete to end the game-Irish 19, Eagles 
18. Still, the Irish remained unranked. The Irish also finished unranked the following season with an 8-4 record after losing to lOth-ranked SMU 27­10 in the Aloha Bowl. 
For many years, Notre Dame's athletic policy did not permit bowl participation. After winning the Rose Bowl and the national championship in 1925, the Irish abstained until 1970, when they lost to Texas in the Cotton Bowl. Since then, they have played in post-season con­tests in 17 of the last 24 years. 
The Irish are 11-6 in bowl games, including wins over unbeaten opponents in 1973, 1977 and 1988 that earned them national championship trophies. They are 3-2 in the Cotton Bowl, defeating Texas in 1971 and 1978, and Houston in 1979. 
The most memorable contests came in the latter two. In the 1978, the fifth-ranked Irish crushed the top-rated and un-Dame attempted to play the role of spoiler to undefeated and top-ranked Colorado. In the first meeting, Notre Dame's defense stymied Buffs' quarterback Darian Hagan, who threw two interceptions and completed just four passes. Ismail, Rice and Anthony Johnson led an effective ground attack for the Irish, who went from fourth to second in the polls. Colorado fell to fourth. 
In the rematch, Notre Dame handed the Buffs a 10-9 victory thanks to five turnovers, as sophomore Rick Mirer endured a rough 13-for-31 performance with three interceptions. But the lingering memory from the game is Ismail's return that wasn't. 
In the game's final minute the Buffaloes kicked to "The Rocket," and he made the most of the opportunity, returning it for an apparent game-winning 
NOTRE DAME NUMERICAL ROSTER 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8  Derrick Ma~s LeShane Saddler Rick Mirer Lee Becton Paul Failla Jerome Bettis Dean LytleClint Johnson  WR CB OB TB OB FB FB SE  6-0 5-10 6-2 5-11 6-2 5-11 6-2 5-8  205 194 215 190 193 254 240 180  Fr Jr. Sr. So. So. Jr. Jr. Jr.  47 48 48 49 50 51 52 53  Pete BereiCh Renaldo W~n Deswood iftt Anlh~ Peterson Greg Sec StuartTynerGermaine Holden Jim Kordas  L.8 DE FS LB DT OG DE OG  6-1 6-3 5-11 6-0 6-2 6-4 6-4 6·5  237 230 180 223 250 282 245 271  Jr. Fr. Sr. Jr. So. Sr. So SG  
9 10 11 12 13 13 14 14 15 16  Jeff Burris Adrian Jarrell Tom MacDonald Kevin PendergastTom Carter Matt Johnson Ray Grig~sStephen opeKevin McDougalChris Parenn  FS FL OB K CB OB SE FS OB OB  6-0 6-0 5-11 5-10 5-11 5-11 6-1 6-3 6-2 5-11  204 194 175 168 191 192 200 199 190 193  Jr. Sr. So. Sr. Jr. Sr. Sr. Jr. Jr. Jr.  54 54 55 56 56 57 58 59 60 60  Justin Goheen Andrew Mims Oliver-Gibson Huntlex Bakich Steve rmbruster Bernard Mannellv Jeremy Nau Lance Johnson Adam Kane Ross Mihalko  LB OT DT DE c DT DE c OL DE  6-2 6-2 6-3 6-2 6-0 6-4 6-4 6-1 6-3 6-1  226 270 275 217 205 270 234 277 238 215  So. Fr. Jr. So. So. Sr. So. Sr. Fr. So.  
16 17 18 18 19 19 20 20 21 22 22 23 23 24 25 25 26 26  Joe Smith Brian MageeWade Smith Stefan Schroffner Mark Swenson Jim Guerrera Mark AndrzeJewSki Lamar Guillory Bobby"WclorShawn ooden Rob Leonard Jeff Baker La Ron Moore Charles Stafford Mike Lalli Brent Boznanski Drew Marsh Mark Monahan  CB DB OB K FL OB ss CB DB FL K SE CB SE FS PK K DB  6-0 5-11 6-4 5·9 5-B 6-0 5·8 5-9 6-3 5-10 6-1 5·11 5-9 5-10 5-11 6-4 6-0 6·0  175 195 180 160 152 176 164 190 190 177 186 183 177 176 201 185 187 180  Sr. Fr. Fr. So. Jr. Sr. So. Sr. Fr. So. Jr. Sr. So. So. Sr. Jr. Jr. Fr.  61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78  Tim RuddyMike McCulloughJason Beckwith Steve Misetic Linds~ KnappTodd orma n Mark Zataveski Jeff RineyDavid OUiSt Mike McGlinn Herbert Gibson Ryan LeahyJustin Hall Will Lyell Aaron Ta~or Jeremz A ers Dusty eiglerJordan Halter  c DT OG OL OT OG OG c DT OT OT OT OT OL OG DT OL OT  6·3 6-3 6·2 6·5 6-6 6-6 6-5 6·4 6-5 6·6 6-5 6-4 6-4 6-5 6-4 6-5 6-6 6-7  286 274 238 266 282 297 295 268 248 285 289 290 304 263 299 272 240 292  Jr. Fr. Jr. Fr. Sr. Sr. So. So. Fr. Jr. So. So. Sr. Fr. Jr. Fr. Fr. Sr.  
27 27 28 29 30 31  Tracy Graham Davia Fuentes Craig Hentrich John CovmgtonNick Smith Demetrius DuBose  ss FB KIP ss DE LB  5·10 5·9 6-1 6·2 6·2 6-2  197 198 186 211 229 238  So. Jr. Sr. Jr. Sr. Sr.  79 80 81 82 83 83  Tyler YoungOscar McBride Rich Sa~et William ·ollard Mike Miller Mark Holdener  OL TE TE SE FL TE  6-4 6-5 6-4 6-4 5-7 6-2  275 251 218 226 157 215  So. Jr. So. Sf. So. So.  
32 33 34 35 36 36 37 38  W1llie Clark Gr~Lane Ray ellars Matt Adams Jeremy SampleJim ArBabrightTravis avis Rick Lozano  TB CB FB FB LB LB FS TB  5-10 5-9 5-11 6-0 5·11 5-10 6-0 5-10  185 180 218 235 218 215 192 189  Jr. Jr. So. Sr. So. So. So Sr.  84 85 86 86 87 88 89 89  lrv Smith Robert HughesBen Foos Max Dieterle Lake Dawson Leon Wallace Karmeeleyah McGill John Kouris  TE TE DT SE FL TE DE TE  6-3 6-7 6-3 5-11 6-1 6-3 6-3 6-4  253 256 226 170 202 268 233 227  Sr. Jr. Fr. So. Jr. Fr. Sr. Fr.  
38  Kevin Carretta  LB  6·1  212  Fr.  90  Brian Hamilton  DT  6·3  275  Jr.  
39 Matt Lahey40 Reg%ie Brooks 41 Joe abey.,42,. Alton Ma~den 43 Bill Wagasy43 Tim Klusas 44 Jim Flanigan45 Devon McDonald 45 John ~nch 46 Brian ligan  CB TB LB DE LB TB DT DE WR DE  6·1 5-8 6-1 6-3 6-2 5-8 6-2 6-4 6-2 6-5  165 211 218 260 224 192 276 241 185 231  Sr. Sr. Fr. Fr. Fr. So. Jr. Sr. Fr. Sr.  91 92 93 .94 95 96 97 98 99  Anthony Jones John Taliaferro Paul Grasmanis Reggie Fleurima Jumor B~ant Thomas noght B~ant YoungPee ChryplewiczCliff Stroud  DE DT DT DT DT DE DT TE DT  6-4 6-4 6-3 6-3 6-4 6-4 6-3 6-5 6-2  242 261 265 262 279 231 277 233 264  Fr. So. Fr. So. Sr. Fr. Jr. Fr. Fr.  

·The bbservll!'!Brendan Regan 

DEPTH CHARTS 

before half-----------------------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~ 
tin;e.th 
~ 
1 ; 
9 
a n d 1 9 9 1 Orange Bowl,
N 

touchdown. But, a qu,estiortab1le{ clipping call on Greg Davis nullified the score and the Notre Dame win. 
When the Irish have the ball 
Probable starters in boldface. 
Irish offense 

~-,.--________..~ 
LEFT TACKLE K•fa Chatham STRONG SAFETY 
St•ve._., ..
sam Adams 
Michael HelllfriGII;l;· 
Aggie defense 

~---------~ 
Wednesday, December 9, 1992 Notre Dame vs. Texas A&M page 5 

Terry Venetoulias  K  6-0 206  JR.  47 Cedric Williams  6-2  190  .FR.  
Percy Singleton  WR  5-11 157  FR.  48 Jessie Cox  6-2  220  so.  
Tony Harrison  WR  5-10 188  JR.  49 Kyle Maxfield  6-2  178  so.  
Marcus Batts  DB  5-11 185  so.  50 Craig Jeffries  6-10  315  SR.  
Junior White  DB  6-1 163  SO.  51 John Ellisor  6-3  278  SR.  
Typail McMullen  DB  6-2 180  FR.  52 Darius Smith  6-3  271  FR.  
Chris Sanders  WR  6-4 208  SO.  54 Calvin Collins  6-3  280  FR.  
Chris Colon  DB  6-3 205  FR.  55 Tyler Harrison  6-4  275  JR.  
Marcus Buckley  LB  6-4 230  SR.  56 Otis Nealy  6-1  221  SR.  
1 0 Corey Pullig  QB  6-3 205  FR.  58 Lance Teichelman LB  6-4  259  JR.  
11 Sherrod Wyatt  DB  6-2 180  FR.  59 Brad Cooper DL  6-4  245  JR.  
13 Matt Miller  QB  6-2 195  FR.  60 Darrell Red DL  6-6  274  so.  
14 Tommy Preston  QB  6-3 206  FR.  62 Lyle Eastham OL  6-5  248  so.  
15 Kent Petty  QB  6-3 211  SR.  64 Larry Wallace OL  6-5  243  JR.  
16 Steve Emerson  QB  6-2 200  so.  66 Michael Cody DL  6-5  276  FR.  
17 Gene Lowery  WR  6-0 189  FR.  68 Chris Dausin OL  6-4  270  JR.  
18 Brian Mitchell  WR  6-0 184  so.  70 Robert Danklefs OL  6-4  285  FR.  
19 Alcie Peterson  DB  6-0 194  FR.  71 Tim VordenbaumerOL  6-5  258  so.  
20 Rodney Thomas  RB  5-11 203  so.  72 Jeff Jones OL  6-6  290  so.  
21 Wilbert Biggens  DB  5-8 184  so.  73 Todd Mathison OL  6-4  284  so.  
22 Billy Mitchell  DB  5-11 181  SO.  74 Ryan Kern OL  6-3  275  so.  
23 Derrick Frazier  CB  6-0 175  SR.  75 Dexter Wesley OL  6-4  285  JR.  
24 Ray Mickens  DB  5-8 176  FR.  76 Greg Cook DL  6-5  265  SR.  
25 Rick Daniel  WR  6-3 189  FR.  77 Charlie Davis OL  6-5  244  FR.  
26 Andre Williams  DB  5-9 170  FR.  78 James Brooks OL  6-4  275  FR.  
27 Greg Hill  RB  5-11 206  SO.  79 John Richard OL  6-5  265  so.  
29 Patrick Bates  DB  6-4 225  JR.  80 Kevin Beirne WR  6-3  170  FR.  
30 Eddie Wallace  RB  5-9 190  FR.  81 Ryan Mathews WR  5-11  184  so.  
31 Aaron Glenn  DB  5-10 180  JR.  82 Danny McCray WR  6-0  185  FR.  
32 Doug Carter  FB  6-0 2~6  SR.  84 Keith Waguespack K  6-3  ~90  FR.  
33 Clif Groce  FB  5-11 240  SO.  85 Hayward Clay TE  6-4  225  FR.  
34 Leeland McElroy  RB  5-11 185  FR.  86 Greg Scharp TE  6-3  233  JR.  
35 Jason Andrus  LB  6-1 200  FR.  87 Jason Mathews TE  6-7  258  JR.  
36 Steve Kenney  DB  6-0 188  SO.  88 James McKeehan TE  6-4  225  so.  
37 Larry Jackson  LB  6-4 242  so.  89 Edward Jasper LB  6-4  235  FR.  
38 Reggie Graham  LB  6-2 234  so.  90 Ervin Briley DL  6-3  250  FR.  
39 Dennis Allen  DB  6-2 182  FR.  91 Cedrick Bryant LB  6-4  200  FR.  
40 Michael Hendricks  DB  6-0 185  so.  92 Eric England DL  6-3  264  JR.  
41 Jim Brady  LB  6-5 210  FR.  93 Antonio Shorter LB  6-4  204  so.  
42 Sean Terry  p  6-2 216  FR.  94 Steve Solari LB  6-1  225  JR.  
43 Jason Atkinson  LB  6-3 .234  JR.  95 SamAdams DL  6-4  282  so.  
44 Delran Smith  FB  6-0 225  FR.  96 Keith Mitchell LB  6-3  205  FR.  
45 David Davis  p  6-2 225  SR.  97 Dez Delatorre DL  6-1  275  FR.  
46 Reggie Brown  LB  6-2 225  FR.  98 Pat Henry DL  6-1  264  JR.  
99 Kefa Chatham DL  6-4  255  JR.  
DEPTH CHARTS  

By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Once again, Notre Dame finds itself unwanted. 
Last year at the Sugar Bowl, the Irish had to answer critics that said they weren't a worthy opponent for number-three Florida because they had limped to the finish line with losses to Tennessee and Penn State, and a lackluster win over Hawaii. 
' This year the Irish are riding a six-game winning streak, but people are still questioning their right to meet fourth-ranked Texas A&M in the Cotton Bowl. With third-ranked Florida State available, inviting number-five Notre Dame was a decision motivated by television interests, rather than the best interests of college football. 
And Texas A&M hasn't hidden its disappointment. 
"I don't know why (Texas A&M) is opposed," Cotton Bowl selection chairman Jim Brock said. "Only one Texas A&M team has had the opportunity to play Notre Dame." 
But playing Notre Dame doesn't mean as much as playing the highest-ranked team available. 
"We wanted to play the high­est-ranked team possible and I'm disappointed in that re­gard," Aggie coach R.C. Slocum said after the pairings were announced Sunday. 
But the deal is done and Notre Dame and Texas A&M will tangle in Dallas on January 1 in a rematch of the 1988 Cotton Bowl, a 35-10 Aggie victory. 
''I'm not sure how well we match up," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "But we're excited about the chance to play a team the calibre of Texas A&M." 
Both teams will bring an ex­plosive offensive attack into the game. The Irish, ranked third nationally in total offense, aver­age more than 470 yards and 
-----------------------------------------37 points per game. Tailback 
Reggie Brooks and quarterback 
Rick Mirer pace the balanced
When the Aggies have the ball 
Irish attack. Brooks became the first· ,000-yard rusher in the Holtz 
Probable starters in boldface. 
Aggie 
a this season, averaging eight offense ards per carry, a fraction ehind George Gipp's school 
including 

U'-''-lUUVVll passes. 
The Aggies have a roster full 
FULLBACK 
Texans with the exception of
Doug Carter Clff Groce players and 'vill try to beat Irish with a ball-controL of­
"Our philosophy is to recruit e state of Texas and try to gn the best athletes in the te," srocum commented. "If can do that consistently, we an compete on the national ,._..,,a.uc.1.u.uu,wtp on a regular ba-
Texas A&M's featured back is as native Greg Hill, who aged 111.6 yards per game 1992. He splits time with nother impressive tailback odney Thomas. The pair ombined for over 2100 yards Freshman quarterback rey Pullig has been at theIrish ontrols Of the Aggie offense midseason and theirdefense has improved by nearly 
Home-grown Aggies upset with bowl match 
two touchdowns per game with him under center. 
Pullig's favorite target is tight end Greg Schrop, but looks to receivers Tony Harrison and Ryan Mathews if the Aggies need a big gain. The two aver­age a combined 18.7 yards per reception. 
The key to the game could be which team is able to stop the other's highly-regarded running games. 
The Irish defense has taken some heat for lackluster early­season performances, but they have shown tremendous im­provement in the season's final weeks. Against Boston College they turned in their best per­formance of the season, allow­ing just 11 yards of total offense in the first half on the way to a 54-7 rout. 
They finished the season ranked 32nd in the nation in total defense, but they allowed just 16.2 points per game. They proved to be vulnerable to the pass, allowing 216 yards per game through the air. 
Linebacker Demetrius Du­Bose, despite missing the first two games because of an NCAA suspension, is the team's lead­ing tackler with 87. Junior Anthony Peterson is next with 7S. 
Texas A&M's defense has re­covered well from the ioss of linebacker Quentin Coryatt, who was a first-round draft pick of the Indianapolis Colts. Led by linebacker Jason Atkinson, the Aggies have allowed just 14 points per game. The rest of the linebacking corps consists of Marcus Buckley, Reggie Graham and Antonio Shorter. 
The Aggies have limited op­ponents to only H 7 yards rush­ing per game. 
The Aggies' secondary, how­ever, does not make it any easier to move the ball. The an­chor of the unit is the A&M's leading tackler free safety Patrick Bates. 
At the corners the Aggies boast an impressive duo. Aaron Glenn leads the team with six interceptions, while preseason all-SWC pick Derrick Frazier is second with three. Strong safety Steve Kenney round out the group. 
One rap against the Aggies is that they haven't exactly played a schedule full of heavyweights on the way to their first 12-0 season in history. Wins over Stanford and Texas were the bookends on a season that in­cluded games against Texas Christian, Tulsa and Southern Methodist in the weak South­west Conference. 
Notre Dame has also had a relatively easy schedule in 1992, but they finished the sea­son with wins over three straight ranked opponents (then number-nine Boston College, 21st-ranked Penn State and then number-19 USC). 
On paper, the matchup looks pretty even, but experience can't be put on paper. Notre Dame is no stranger to the big . games and seems to thrive when carrying the underdog label. Texas A&M, on the other hand, carries the weight of ex­pectations into the game, hop­ing to plead its case for a na­tional championship. That's foreign .territory for the Aggies, and it could mean trouble for them. 

--------~­

~-----~---~ -----~------~--­
page 6 Notre Dame vs. Texas A&M Wednesday, December 9, 1992 
Silent Lane speaks on· field 
Junior defensive back emphasizes team unity 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Assoclate Sports Editor 
Greg Lane knows that he is a small, silent part of the Notre Dame football team. 
Lane has been in the shadows throughout his college football career, despite early acclamation to an important position in the Irish secondary. He made six starts at corner­back during his freshman sea­son, but could never claim the spotlight; it shone on older, more experienced players. 
This fall, Lane is one of sev­eral experienced members of the Irish secondary. The junior has started all but one game for Lou Holtz this season, missing only one game (a date with Pittsburgh due to an injury). 
But Lane has had to compete with Tom Carter and Jeff Burris for attention. While his teammates usually get the acco­lades, Lane's efforts go unno­ticed by fans and color com­mentators. 
But the junior is unfazed by the lack of attention focused on him. He continues to play a vital part in the Notre Dame defense and to help lead his teammates. 
"All of us (the defensive backs) are quiet guys off of the field," says Lane, never speak­ing in the first person singular. "But on the field, we become a lot more vocal." 
This season, the Irish-watch­ers have also been vocal, sing­ing the praises of the once-ma­ligned Notre Dame secondary, which now enjoys a reputation as one of the strongest units on the Irish team. 

Dominated by juniors, the secondary boasts two true stars in Carter and Burris, each of whom has brought down five interceptions this season. But Lane has carved out a niche for himself as a team player, who does not post big stats, but ele­vates the play of those around him. 
"We need to compete, because we can't let any one person get too much better than the rest of us," said Lane. "All of us work very well as a team, and we all have aggressiveness and confidence. 
"But we have to be balanced." 
That balance has led the Irish secondary to respectability this season. A weak pass rush and a schedule loaded with top passing quarterbacks con­demned Notre Dame to an atrocious pass defense in 1991. 
But the tide has turned this fall. 
In 1992, the defensive backs have gained respect from coaches and fans through hard work and a general shutdown of opposing pass offenses. The Irish intercepted three Elvis Grbac passes, held confident Boston College quarterback Glenn Foley to 11-of-28 passing for 121 yards, and Penn State record-breaking signal-caller Kerry Collins to only 131 yards through the air. 
"As the year went on, the coaches became more confident in (the secondary)," Lane said. "We played a lot more man-to­man, and had more chances to show what we could do one on one." 
The Irish pass rush, seemingly absent during the first half of the season, kicked into high gear near the halfway mark, enabling a gradual shift to more man-to-man coverages. 
"The coaches didn't want us to have to cover man to man when there was no pass rush," said Lane. "No one can cover a receiver forever." 
Lane played both ways during when a high school player in Austin, Texas, gaining over 1,200 yards on the ground dur­ing his senior season. Among several others, he visited Texas A&M, Notre Dame's Cotton Bowl opponent, but opted instead for the gold helmets and long winters offered by Lou Holtz. 
"I know a lot of guys at Texas A&M," said Lane. "If I had my choice, we would be playing Miami for the national champi­onship. But playing Texas A&M in the Cotton Bowl is a great opportunity." 
The Aggies' strength is de­fense. R.C. Slocum's team has won games based on its ability to stop opponents, not outshoot them. So one might think that Notre Dame's secondary would be relaxed, unwary of a big play. But Lane is determined to rid the team of that mentality. 
"We've got to watch out against teams like Texas A&M," said Lane. "Teams with offenses like theirs' can be the most effective big play teams. 
"They rim, run, run, and then they burn you." 
But with Lane working quietly against them, outside the glare of the media spotlight, the Aggies will have a tough time making big gains on the field. 

NEWLY REMODELED 
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
Now Renting for Spring 1993 Semester and For Next Year 
•Newly 
painted

•New 
carpet 

•New 
appliances 

•
New cabinets 

•New 
security systeiTis 

•Fenced 
& lighted parking areas 

•
New washers and dryers

•
Fantastic rental rates ­


For rn.c)re il1[orrr1atic)n call 
Matted Enterprises 
232--8256 
-
.---_w~-e--d~n~e~s-d:a_y~.~D_e~c-e_m_-_be_r_9_,_1_9_9_2______________ .-_~_.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-·~~·_·_.-_.-_._·_·_· _· _· _P_•-~-•-~ ~ ~-_-l
N_o_t_re_D_a_m_e_v_s_.li_e_x_a_s_A_&_M____ 
1 
I 
New Year's has more 
than Cotton pickin's 


Dennis Erickson 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Editor 
While Notre Dame and Texas A&M do battle in Dallas, 16 other teams in will be taking the field in eight other bowls on New Year's Day. 
Though the most important game is in New Orleans on New Year's night, there are quite a few interesting matchups throughout the day to help football fans recover from New Year's Eve. 
Blockbuster Bowl #21 Penn State vs. #13 Stanford 
The Nittany Lions have been tied to the Blockbuster since May. The only thing they had to do was win six games, which they did, as they finished 7-4. 
The Cardinal (8-3), who upset the Irish 33-16, are in their first January 1 bowl since the 1972 Rose Bowl. 
Each team is solid. on both sides of .the ball, but the most interesting aspect of this game could be on the sidelines, be­tween coaching legends Joe Pa­terno and Bill Walsh. 
Hall of Fame Bowl #16 Boston College vs. #17 Tennessee 
Neither of these teams was expected to have good years; both did. 
The Eagles surprised the college football world by as­cending to number-nine in the polls with an 8-0-1 record. Though BC came back down to Earth with back-to-hack losses to Notre Dame and Syracuse, the Eagles are still worthy of the bid. 
The Volunteers (8-3) were supposed to have a rebuilding year, but still managed to make it to New Year's Day. 
Unfortunately, it wasn't 


Nevada vs. Bowling Green Las Vegas, Dec. 18, 8 p.m. 
(ESPN) 
' > ' ...................................:~:-?',; ..~;;.!_:.~..?iflt~·~·;l!l..,-..... . 
Aloha Kansas vs. Brigham Young Honolulu , Dec. 25, 3:30 p.m. (ABC) 
Blockbuster Penn State vs. Stanford Gene Stallings Ft. Lauderdale , Jan 1, 1:30 p.m. (CBS) 
enough to save Johnny Majors' job. Independence Wake Forest Florida Citrus Bowl vs.Oregon #8 Georgia vs. Shreveport, La., Dec. 31, 12:30 p.m. (ESPN) #15 Ohio State Liberty
Two conference runner-ups meet in this tier-two bowl. Air Force The Bulldogs (9-2), though vs. Mississippi they didn't reach the South­
Memphis, lenn., Dec. 31, 8 p.m. (ESPN) 
eastern Conference title game, 
Gator

got the bid because they are ranked higher than Florida. Aortda 
John Cooper and the Buck­·: vs. North Carolina State eyes' 8-2-1 season was high­'"'"'"''""";''" Fla., Dec. 31, 6 p.m. (TBS) lighted by a tie against Michi­gan. It doesn't sound like much, Holiday but it kept Cooper in Columbus Hawaii for another year. vs. Illinois 
A great matchup in this game San Diego, Dec. 30, 8 p.m. (ESPN) will pit Ohio State's all­American linebacker Steve Freedom Tovar against Georgia's Southern Cal Heisman hopeful Garrison . vs. Fresno State Hearst. Anaheim, Calif., Dec. 29, 9 p.m. (Raycom) 
Orange Bowl #3 Florida State vs. Arizona #11 Nebraska vs.Baylor . . 
El Paso, Texas, Dec. 31, 2:30 p.m. (CBS) "':
Different year, same scenario 
for both these teams. 
:-:,.~ 

Tucson, Ariz., Dec. 29, 8 p.m. (ESPN) 
.........,(...-;.............:..·.. ... ··T::~··:~...·:~~~-......... . .. ,_.. .. 
Peach 

North Carolina 
vs. Mississippi State 
Atlanta, Jan. 2, 8 p.m. (ESPN) 
·--------------------·­

Hall of Fame 
Boston College 
vs. Tennessee 
lampa, Fla., Jan.1, 11a.m. (ESPN) 
.· Qhio St. : vs~ Georgia · Orlando, Fla., Jan. 1, 1 p.m. (ABC) 
...........;'!'<'!l;·i"' ............................ , ......;;-,r,.,..,.;.~'-""'""' 
Cotton 
TexasA&M 

vs. Notre Dame 
Dallas, Jan. 1, 1 p.m. (NBC) 
Nebraska 

vs. Florida State 
Miami, Jan. 1, 8 p.m. (NBC)
·-···.-!-·......._._______....__,____ -......,.;.,.,;;.<.-=-~~ Sugar ·. . ·..;o . Alabama
··rt·~ 
.. / ' · ' vs. Miami

'; ··..·'!\. ·...' New Orleans, Jan. 1, 8:30p.m. (ABC) 
Gounlry rL.forisl 
& 9ijls, gnc~ 23y 7Jennis 
Children! Chrislrrm Party 
60cf05 Qi. c5. 31 c5oulhYJh. (219)291--3937
SLEEPING BEAUTY P1ppet S~ow 1& ~:~0 p.m. MAGIC SHOW with Bill H~rvey 2:45 p.m. 
cSoulh:JJend, gnd/ana46614
fACE PAINTING hy R1hy 12 -4:~0 p.m. MooNWALK 99C LUNCH SPECIAL AT REALLY POPPIN' 
Wide c5efeclion of. 
c•i/Jmt ,,'",,, i•rifldl North Village Mall 
G.hrislmas :7/rran!lemenls
MrJIIJ' u.s. 33 at Darden Rd 
We 7Jefiver 
291~3937 

'Me 7/ccepl 7111Jl(ajor Credtl Cards 
-
The Seminoles (10-1) are ar­guably playing the best football in the country, but have no shot at the national championship. They usually end their season by rolling to an impressive bowl victory. 
The Cornhuskers (9-2) have managed to get another New Year's Day bowl without beating anyone impressive outside of the Big Eight. They usually end their season by being destroyed in a bowl. 
Fortunately, the Miami-Al­abama game is on opposite this one. 
Rose Bowl #7 Michigan vs. #9 Washington 
Once again, the "Granddaddy of Them All" is more like a sec­ond cousin. 
A few weeks ago, this game had national title implications, but both teams have been late­season flops. 
The Wolverines (8-0-3) were been more conservative Pat Buchanan in playing for ties against Illinois and Ohio State in their last two regular-season games, while the Huskies (9-2) wilted away in the desert against Arizona and got blown away in a blizzard versus Washington State. 
Fiesta Bowl #6 Syracuse vs. #1 0 Colorado 

The Big East runner-up faces the Big Eight runner-up in Tempe. 
The Orangemen (9-2) came three yards away from ruining Miami's perfect season and have played well all season. They boast one of the most athletic quarterbacks in the nation in Marvin Graves, and one of the country's most explosive players in Quadry "The Missile" Ismail. 
Colorado (9-1-1) played one big game this year and it got crushed by Nebraska 52-7. But, unlike their fellow conference member, the Buffaloes always seem to play well in bowl games. 
Sugar Bowl 
#1 Miami (Fla.) vs. 
#2 Alabama 

This is the reason the coali­tion was formed. 
The Hurricanes (11-0) couldn't hide at home in the 
AP 

Orange Bowl this year. 
If you like old-fashioned foot­ball, dome and astroturf aside, this is the game for you. 
Both teams have tremendous defenses, but neither has a great offense. . 
Gino Toretta could turn out to be the least worthy Heisman Trophy winner besides Ty Detmer, but he is the core of the Miami offense. 
Witb Eric Curry and company constantly pressuring on Toretta, Miami's pass-oriented offense could falter. 
Miami's defense is the thing that got it here, and it might not even be tested by Alabama's anemic offense. 
This one could be decided by the defense that scores the most points. 
-
page 8 Notre Dame vs. Texas A&M 

-
Jarrell wants to be a hard worker, not a star 

Photos courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information The most memorable moment of Adrian Jarrell's career was this miraculous catch off a Michigan State defender's chest to set up the Irish's 20-19 win over the Spartans in 1990. 
--By RICH KURZ the understudy to Raghib Is-practice and sure helps the to provide some solid had a lot in common with those Associate Sports Editor mail, and was expected to play team,"' he said. leadership." guys." a big role last season after Irish coach Lou Holtz had high But these qualities aren't lim-A master of all trades in high 
On a team loaded with many Ismail left school early. But the praise for Jarrell. ited to the football field. In fact, school, Jarrell settled on wide potential professional wide re­week after the Michigan game "He's probably as a tough a Jarrell someday hopes to put his receiver when he came to Notre ceivers, making yourself stand last year, Jarrell broke his arm young man as I've ever been management degree to use in Dame. out in that crowd can be tough. in practice and was forced to sit around," said Holtz when in-the business world. "I made my decision, and it's But early in his sophomore year, out the rest of the season. troducing Jarrell at the football ''I'm definitely a business-ori-not something I look back at, Adrian Jarrell did just that. "That was hard for me," Jar-banquet. ented person," he said. "I enjoy except when I watch high 
In the first game of the season rell said. "You look forward to With the leadership given by business, it's something that I've school football," he said. versus Michigan, Jarrell caught having a good year, and then to Rick Mirer and Demetrius Du-dreamed of since I was a kid." He played six different posi­an 18-yard touchdown pass, the break your arm and have to sit Bose about to head to the NFL During the off-season, Jarrell tions in his high school career. first of Rick Mirer's career, to out all season is devasting. But after graduation, Jarrell's lead-has had the chance to work at a In his senior season he passed win the game. it helped me to look at things ership will be even more im-bank in his hometown of for 369 yards and a touchdown, 
"It was the most emotional one day at a time." portant. Although he needs just Athens, Ga. ran for 466 yards and six play in my career," he said. It also helped Jarrell to make nine credits next semester to "Every summer I work in a scores, and totalled 215 yards 
Then, in the very next game of his mark on the team-in a graduate, Jarrell plans to apply different department, learning and two touchdowns receiving. the season, at Michigan State, leadership role. The soft-spoken for a fifth-year of eligibility due different jobs," he said. He had a 42.2 yard average on Jarrell caught a ball that senior isn't one to yell or last season's injury. But the flanker at Notre Dame 49 punts, ran back a kickoff 90 bounced off a defender's chest, scream, but rather leads by ex-"It'll feel kind of funny at first almost didn't end up beneath yards for a touchdown and landing on the one-yard line, ample. not to have those guys, like Rick the Golden Dome. intercepted two passes, taking setting up Rod Culver's game­''I'm not one to be in the spot-and Demetrius and Irv (Smith), "Notre Dame wasn't on my one back for a score. winning touchdown. light, and I don't need to be around," he said. mind until after my junior year With the loss of a number of 
"That play was just being in pumped and hyped by people to Their departure figures into in high school. this year's team leaders, several the right place at the right make me happy. It's enough for his goals for next season. "I came to look at the school players must step forward and time," said Jarrell. me if the coaches and my "As a player, hopefully I'll play and met all the guys on the assume a leadership role. 
He continued to play a teammates say 'Hey, that a lot, work hard and work on team, like Rocket, Ricky Wat­With Jarrell's work ethic, he significant role that season as Adrian works hard every day in my speed. For the team, I want ters, and Tony Rice. I felt that I should be one of them 
Sophomore tailback Hill is the steady stalwart of A&M's ball-control offense 
Special to the Observer With Hill and fellow tailback Rodney Thomas. who gained 894 yards on the ground, in the The rap on Texas A&M all season its lack of backfield, the Aggies are able to do. offense, but do not tell that to the Aggies. Though the two both see significant action, Hill 
They averaged over 29 points per game with an is the featured back, as he had over 100 more offense led by sophomore tailback Greg Hill, who carries this season. rushed for 1,339 yards on 267 carries this sea­The Aggies rushing attack is able to set up their son. These numbers proved that his freshman short passing game. Corey Pullig, who took over campaign, in which he gained 1,216 yards, was at quarterback in midseason, averages only 119 no fluke. yards passing per game and threw only three 
"Hill came into the season as a proven touchdown passes. commodity, but he still worked hard to improve," When the Aggies get close they usually look Aggies' coach R.C. Slocum said. Hill. He led A&M with 17 touchdowns, 15 of them 
Though overshadowed by another freshman rushing. phenom San Diego State's Marshall Faulk last Hill, like all but two Aggies, played his high season, Hill did attract a lot of attention in the school ball in the Lone Star State and was named Southwest Conference. The Dallas native broke Texas' District 11 5-A Player of the Year after his Earl Campbell's SWC record for most yards senior year in which he gained 1.122 yards at gained as a freshman, was named SWC Offensive Carter High School. Newcomer of the Year and earned first-team SWC After being redshirted in 1990, he burst upon honors. the scene with last year's record-breaking season. 
"At Texas A&M, we employ a balanced, ball control offense," Aggies' offensive coordinator "I came to A&M because of the team chemistry Bob Toledo stated. "We want to have a physical, and the closeness amongst the Aggies," Hill said power running attack." of his decision to stay in Texas. 
KEEP YOUR EYES ON ... 



-


MARCUS BUCKLEY PATRICK BATES 
RODNEY THOMAS 
A & M outside linebacker is an The junior free safety is the Aggie linebacker was the team's Running back is teamed with impact player on the Aggie Aggies' leading tackler with 95. second leading tackler. The Greg Hill for one of the most defense with 70 tackles He also had two interceptions junior's top performance came productive backfields in college including nine for losses. and a fumble recovery. His top against Rice With 12 tackles. football. Thomas is averaging Buckley had a standout game performance came against 5.6 yards a carry on 154 against Baylor with 12 stops. Louisville with 14 tackles. attempts. 

I 
1 
Viewpoint
Wednesday, December 9, 1992 page 17 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Student responds to professor regarding issue of homosexuality 
Dear Editor: that he or she has the inclina­population to the fear and
worth living, being hated for the hereafter? the way of life that you have tion to love romantically his or experience of discrimination This letter is addressed to her own sex. and violence.
chosen, or rather found your­Homosexuality is found in the 
Charles Rice in response to his Therefore, a homosexual You complain that this Uni­
self drawn towards. Wow, -I animal kingdom and many
article from the Dec. 7 versity is affiicted with political
wonder why the suicide rate human cultures past and pre­cannot instantly change this 
Observer: correctness. Where? I don't see
among gays is so high? sent (including the culture that orientation, even if he or she You seem to be really into life. is considered the root of west­would want to, or be any. When I look around this 
Imagine something for me, most radical and commanded to by a religion or campus, I see apathy, an irra­
You support the ern philosophy thought,
would you? Imagine you real­pro-life found at this moral code. tional and childish hate for
stance the ancient Greeks). Homosex­
ized one day that you were ac­Since I assert that your moral anything not middle class, safe
University (incidentally, never ual urges are recognized by all
tually romantically attracted to stance contradicts natural and white, sexism, racism, and
mentioning a word about what but the pathologically repressed 
men, and that no matter which to do with all the babies you as existing within themselves. inclinations, and not the other homophobia. institution or conventional No, I'm sorry, I don't see any
"save, • merely confining your It is a natural choice of way around as you would 
mode of morality told you that it discourse to easy and irrespon­lifestyle, by no means univer­assert, you leave a Catholic correctness. I see hate, enough was wrong, you could not sibly sterile moral dictates). sally condemned as Mr. Fisher homosexual with few choices: hate to last me a lifetime, 
change how you felt. But you espouse a the Church or to although it is made to look in­
viewpoint Leave tryAnd then imagine that you that condemns a natural would assert. reform it, (both good choices), nocuous, and often denied. 
were told from all sides that inclination -yes, that's right, a But you condemn it and the repress his or her I see spoiled children who 
-this inclination makes you people who are inclined can't reach out of their own
natural inclination -as morally homosexuality (a common 
"intrinsically disordered,· i.e. towards it, using shabbily little lives to look at anythingreprehensible and disordered, choice, but unhealthy and ­
that there is something seri­thus condemning those who constructed arguments based leading to neurosis and homo­unlike them. And I finally see on Christian scripture and people like you feeding these
ously and morally wrong with exhibit this inclination to death. phobia), or fall into depression, you. Gee, I guess you'd proba­Isn't that the penalty for this dictates from Rome to justify realizing that the guardians of repressive attitudes with your 
bly hate yourself. You your stance, which, by the way, barred for "morality."I don't
might "mortal sin" in your sense of ritual purity have condemn 
even decide that life wasn't have also been used to justify them forever the gates of you. I don't hate you. I feel such things as the Inquisition, sorry for you, trapped within
heaven, due to their the repression of women and "intrinsically disordered· state the confines of your scripture­
minorities, the suppression of walled prison cell. 
(another common, and often 
science, and witch-hunts. However, I do hate the atti­
fatal, choice). 
Now if a homosexual is unfor­tudes that your statements ex­tunate enough to be afflicted I am sure that you probably hibit and help feed. I hate them illness ·Catholic
with the of feel that you are a guardian of because I see them causing 
Guilt" and actually takes these wonderful and valuable people
Christian morality. 
inane dictates and repressive But I'm here to tell you that to feel lonely and isolated, con­st;mces seriously, how is he or you are only guarding repres­stantly fearing the spectre of she to live? 
sive hate for something you do damnation, or physical and 
psychological violence. 
not understand, making blan­
A person does not decide to Gays have done you no
ket statements about the evil of
become homosexual like you wrong, Mr. Rice, and you are
something you have never
decide what tie to wear in the hurting them for no good rea­
come into contact with on a
morning or what 'font' to use son. Stop doing it. 
human level.
when writing your wonderful material on the computer, but By doing so you relegate a Joe Cannon 
large and vibrant portion of our
at some point in life realizes Stanford Hall Dec. 7,1992 
Letter clarifies Church's teachings ND/SMC Right to Life trip 
Dear Editor: all because such statements can II it was clearly articulated 
to take place in January
were never solemnly declared that in all other cases (non-ex I would like to respond to to be such. cathedra teachings), a Catholic 
Dear Editor: will take place on Friday, Jan. 
some of the points in my col­No, the doctrine of infallibility is obliged to follow her con­22 and we will return to South 
league Richard Dechance's paid is richer than Mr. Dechance science." 
Now, more than ever, we Bend that evening after the 
advertisement (Nov. 13), which might care to acknowledge. In This statement, as it stands, is must pray for the unborn. Our day's activities have ended. The blasted the earlier "treatise" by short, any constant teaching correct. But its underlying tone nation could very well take a cost is only $45. Mr. Paul Fisher on the evils of that concerns matters of faith is quite misleading. The Church turn for the worse in the near The trip is certainly worth the homosexuality. or morals, such as the status of has always taught that one 
future in deciding legislation sacrifice of time and funds and 
On the whole I found Mr. homosexuality, is to be re= must follow one's conscience, that deals with the evil of abor­we feel that it is important that 
Dechance's response provoca­spected as infallible by any for consCience is a judgment of tion. We must pray for all of our Notre Dame and Saint Mary'stive and thoughtful, even if er­Catholic. To quote the name of the practical intellect that tells representatives in our local, be adequately represented. If roneous at almost every turn. Christ and the fa,ithful are to. us what is right or. wrong in a state, and Federal govern­you would like to join us, re­But two especially noteworthy accept their teaching and ad­particular situation. Not to ments. We must also derive 
serve your seat on the bus im­
statements call for immediate here to it with a religious assent follow one's conscience thus strength from our prayer and mediately! Please make pay­rebuttal, if only because they of soul. amounts to not following one's 
then allow it to lead us to ments to ND/SMC Right To Life 
have tended to become assimi­This religious submission of reason, God's greatest gift to us 
action. and turn it in to either Christo­
lated into the general theologi­will and of mind must be shown -in short, not to follow one's The entire Notre Dame and pher Beaudet (283-1557) or cal framework of the contem­in a special way to the conscience is a sin. Saint Mary's community is in­Claire Johnson (283-4220) as porary world. authentic teaching authority of However, if one's conscience vited to join the Right To Life soon as possible. We hope that 
Both of these ideas come to­the Roman Pontiff, even when were to err about some matter, organization for their trip to you can join us for this verywards the end of his article. he is not speaking ex cathe­one could equally sin were one Washington, D.C. in order to important event. The first concerns Mr. dra... His mind and will in the to follow such a deformed con­participate in the annual March Dechance's erroneous portrayal matter may be known chiefly science. That is, even though a for Life. 
Christopher J. Beaudet 

of the doctrine of infallibility. either from the character of the Catholic must always follow his The bus will leave on Thurs­
Cavanaugh Hall 

While noting that Catholics as documents, from his frequent conscience, every Catholic has a day, Jan. 21 at 8 p.m. The event Dec.6,1992 "> Catholics are bound to accept repetition of the same doctrine, duty to form his conscience Magisterial teachings, he then or from his manner of speak­well, that is, to form his judging blithely states: "However, ing" (Lumen gentium, no. 25). powers in accordance with the Catholics are absolutely bound Now, the Church's teaching on truth. Consequently, dissenters to believe only those statements the intrinsic disorderedness of from Church teaching on ho­which the Pope makes ex the homosexual orientation, mosexuality or any other mat­cathedra, none of which pertain and its intrinsic sinfulness if ter cannot immediately claim to homosexuality." acted upon, is just one of those that they are just following 
He is correct in saying that no constant and unchanged teach­their conscience. For of course Pope has ever made an ex ings of the Magisterium. ·That they are. cathedra statement against no solemn declaration on this The further question, though, homosexuality. But if infallibil­or related points (e.g., that is if anyone can truly believe ity were limited to points of adultery is always and every­that homosexuality is a genuine doctrine proposed ex cathedra, where immoral) has ever been means of giving glory to God, then Catholics as Catholics made does not eliminate the and of fostering human dignity. would be bound to believe only responsibility of a faithful (Note that most pro-homosex­two things: that Our Lady was Catholic towards those teach­ual arguments argue that such conceived in a miraculous way, ings. behavior does not do much preserved from original sin, Mr. Dechance may not himself harm. But one also must con­and that Our Lady was assumed accept such teachings. But sider the positive good of an body and soul into Heaven upon surely he should be more re­activity before one can discern the termination of her earthly sponsible in what he reports as its full moral standing.) For if existence. the official teaching of the homosexuality cannot meet 
What a relief it is that we do Church. these standards, then no one not have to believe that Christ The second contentious point can, with a well-formed con­was divine, or that He rose I wish to respond to is related science, believe otherwise. from the dead, or that we as to the above one. Immediately Catholics do not have to believe following his mistaken state­Jon Beane that murder is wrong if our ment of the nature of infallibil­Philosophy Dept. conscience tells us otherwise -ity, he asserts: "In fact, in Vati-Dec.6,1992 

Accent 
page 18 Wednesday, December 9, 1992 

Bill Rosemann • 
Sucking the 

ac1n• c a en es
Marrow of Life 

Ernie lives: the saga continues 
T 
-
he gods have spoken to me-the gods of public broadcasting, that is. Last Tuesday, like Zeus booming a clap of 
thunder, The Children's Television 
Workshop (CTW) released a statement, attempting to slay the rumor ravaging our country. With one mighty fax, the CTW answered the question burning in our hearts: "Is Sesame Street's Ernie dead? Is he a doomed muppet?" 
The following decree was sent by Lisa Davis, of WNIT's (Channel 34) public promotions, who aided me in my quest for truth: "The following letter is the official statement from CTW concerning Ernie. Your request for info about the Ernie rumor a month ago was one of the earliest, but there has been an outbreak since that time. Pass this letter on. Tell your friends at other schools, your parents. your siblings, that Ernie is OK and is NOT going to die. Thank you!" 
The following PR release contains the actual words of the all-hallowed Workshop-1 kid ye not: 
"TO: ALL PTV STATIONS FR: CHILDREN'S TELEVISION WORKSHOP RE: ERNIE RUMORS 
We are hearing from stations and viewers from around the country about rumors concerning Ernie. One such rumor surfaced as recently as the December issues of 'Sassy' magazine on their 'What Next' page. 
Here it is from the horse's mouth: Ernie is alive and well and living on Sesame Street. Children's Television Workshop has no plans, nor have we ever had plans, to eliminate Ernie from the cast. Ernie is not sick and will not become sick. He is, after all, a puppet. Ernie is part of the core spirit of the show and will continue to enrich the lives of preschoolers for generations to come. 
We think these rumors began in reaction to concern over what was to become of characters puppeteered and voiced by the late Jim Henson. Over the 22 years he was associated with Sesame Street, Jim created hundreds of segments with Ernie. These 'evergreen' segments are as rich and meaningful and educational today as when Jim created them. We will continue to include them in upcoming seasons as well. 
We invite you to be a partner with us in letting children, parents, and the press know that ERNIE IS OKAY. Help us to heal the unsubstantiated concern that so many are feeling. Thank you for your help." 
Well, I guess that settles it. Or does it? Is this the long awaited truth-or a sinister cover up, hiding a dark conspiracy that threatens world order? 
Has Ernie been assassinated by ninjas and replaced with a doppleganger? Is this the "Invasion of the Muppet Snatchers?" Has this anti-Ernie been sent by a crime syndicate to seize control of our beloved neighborhood? 
Will the inhabitants of Sesame Street turn up murdered, one by one? Will Cookie Monster be found clutching a box of Oreos laced with strychnine? Will the Count be locked out of his castle, burnt to a crisp, muttering "One! One big sun!?" Will Oscar's garbage can be "accidentally" tossed into an incinerator-with the Grouch inside? Will Big Bird and Snuffieupagus be found plucked and skinned? Is Bert sleeping with the enemy? 
Watch your television sets closely. If Ernie develops a random twitch, reveals a leather fetish, or asks Bert "What's this duck doing in my tub?" we'll know something stinks on Sesame Street. 
Bill Rosemann is an Accent columnist of The Observer. His columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 
In 'Culture and Commitment: The Challenges of Today Is University,' University President Father Edward Malloy examines awide variety of issues relevant to higher education and beyond 

By JAHNELLE HARRIGAN 
Accent Editor 
University President Father Edward Malloy's latest book, "Culture and Commitment: The Challenges of Today's University" wasn't written from scratch. In fact, without a tape recorder it may never have come about. 
Published last week by Notre Dame Press, the book is a collection of Malloy's significant public addresses given during his first term from 1987 to 1991. 
"Culture and Commitment" isn't a coherent whole, according to Malloy, but instead is a collection of material divided by category. 
It is intended to be a "permanent record of reflections of the person who exercises the office of president. It represents my perspective on things related to higher education and to Notre Dame and to other things that I have talked about since I've been President," Malloy said. 
Although he made all the addresses included in "Culture and Commitment" since he became University President, they are taken from many different settings-many off-campus. Malloy believes the book will give people on campus a chance to hear his thoughts on these subjects. 
Almost all his talks are given without notes or outlines, according to Malloy. And that is why using a tape recorder during public addresses was helpful in publishing the book. 
Approximately two years ago, Malloy began working with Notre Dame Director of Public Relations Dennis Moore, who transcribes these tapes, to select materials for the book. 
Issues relating to Notre Dame, higher education, Catholic higher education, and ethics-Malloy's professional field-were the common denominators he looked for when choosing which addresses to include, Malloy said. 
After circulating the chosen material to Notre Dame Press and meeting with its editorial board, the book began to take shape. 
Discussing issues from education to ethics, Malloy has arranged the book into three parts: The nature of the Catholic university, challenges of today's world and challenges within the University. 
1The first and third sections of "Culture and Commitment" explore issues relating to higher education and more specifically, Catholic higher education. 
Malloy describes the mission of a Catholic university as providing education in an atmosphere that is supportive of the religious aspects of life. "You can do the first without the second, and the second without the first-doing both is the challenge," 
Obsever file photo University President Father Edward Malloy's recently published book is a collection of his significant public addresses from 1987 to 1991. 
Malloy said. 
Notre Dame is working to meet that challenge, according to Malloy, who says that the University's greatest strength is its distinctiveness as a religious institution. 
"That it is a Catholic University makes it distinct from other uni­versities that are not religiously affiliated," Malloy said. "That it is 150 years old gives us a richness of tradition that some schools don't enjoy. That it has a high residential tradition is another unique characteristic ofNotre Dame. 
"That we're three-quarters undergraduate and one-quarter graduate and professional means that we're different from any of the schools that we're being compared with-which are predominantly graduate schools," he added. 
Malloy places great emphasis on the idea of a holistic education, and says that Notre Dame's curriculum strives to achieve this goal of producing well-rounded students. 

According to Malloy, it is expected today that college graduates are comfortable in an international environment, and able to deal with the realities of race and ethnicity. 
Volunteer action at Notre Dame helps to achieve this goal, Malloy said. "We've become a model in the nation-many other schools have sent representatives here to see how we've structured the Center for Social Concerns." 
But Malloy is concerned that there is not enough participation in volunteer activity. "It's really important that a higher percentage of our undergraduates, graduates, faculty and staff have that exposure if they're going to incorporate it into their lives." 
Because Malloy's professional background is in the field of ethics, much of "Culture and Commitment" addresses this topic. 
While he says that the University is fortunate to have some well-known faculty members who are specialists in ethics, many faculty members shy away from examining the ways that ethics apply to their particular disciplines. 

"The problem is that many faculty are resistant to thinking of themselves as doing something that they are not trained to do. And so to say to a typical professor, 'what is the ethical dimension of what you're do­ing?' is seen as an imposition by the administration." 
Notre Dame is continuing to raise the questions to incorporate ethics into curriculum through different programs and workshops, according to Malloy. 
Four separate addresses con­cerning challenges in today's society make up the second section of the book. Various issues such as the relationship between science, religion and the humanities; ethics in the workplace; and the control of both foreign and domestic violence are examined by Malloy. 
"Culture and Commitment: The Challenges of Today's University" is 160 pages in length and is available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. The price is $22.95. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314laFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds ­
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
LOST: Black psych folder w/exp  GRAB IT: 1628 Portage for  ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif.  mcbride:  RIDER NEEDED-I'm driving to  
NOTICES  card & notes; last seen at N. Dining Hall last Wed.; if you have. it  1993-94 yr. 234-3831 or 273-0482.  family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful  the enemy thing didn't work, and the friendship thing has gotten off the  NYC for break & need a rider. Call 271-0742  
call x4586-ask for Steve; no  future for your baby. Confidential  ground in a most unusually friendly  
AITENTION:  questions  2, 4 & 6 BDRM HOMES . NEAR  and legal. Expenses paid. Call  start. so am i to assume that this is  I NEED A RIDE TO THE  
For more information and  CAMPUS. AVAILABLE 2nd  Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805)  true? even so, i will not call you  MILWAUKEE AREA FOR  
assistance regarding the investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the Better Business Bureau of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 or 800-439-5313.  LOST: green London Fog down-filled jacket in 202 DeBart. before Thanksgiving break. If you found it, please call Laura x4801 ...1t's cold outside and I need my jacket!!!! Thanks. Help!! If you took my blue N.D. backpack from North Dining Hall on Tue., Dec 1st at dinner, I'm still  SEMESTER & FALL '93 272-6306 CAMPUS VIEW ONE BEDROOM AVA. JANUARY 272·1441 OR 273-2195 LARGE 4 BDRM, VICTORIAN HOME! Refinished floors, fireplace, 1-1/2 garage,  520-5978 or attorney (818) 241­5535. MEN AND WOMEN FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE For more info, call COSIMO'S 277-1875. ADOPTION: Loving Catholic couple dreams of sharing life with newborn.  brett. B E c K y MARTINI ... Have a happy happy holiday, m'lady! You know I will be- BREAK CAN LEAVE THURS DEC 17 AFT.ER 4 CALL JULIE X3736 Jaime, have a good time in Mexico next semester. Without you the Tacos will not be the same. Party Hard. To Perry, Gibb & lzzy, one more semester to let it all out.  
. waiting for your call. (Raissa x4890)  writers/artists garret with skylight!  Hear us on our taped message .  Marty-There's never a dull moment.  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  You have some papers that I really  $550/mo.  Confidential. Expenses paid. 1-800­ missing you every minute ... Love,  I wouldn't trade it for anything.  
need back!! They couldn't be of any  467-8522.  ==Scot  V-boy, I can be frustrating huh?  
TYPING 287-4082  value to you, so why don't you just take all the loose papers and stick  •2-STORY VICTORIAN. 4 bdrms, 2 baths, fireplace & hardwood floors,  CLOSE-OUT SALE  HELP!!!!  Hey thanks for listening. Jenny Marten and the others I visit  
them back in one of the cubby holes  large 3rd floor garret. $525/mo.  MUST GO PRICES!!!  I need a ride to Connecticut for  at The Big "0"-it's you I miss, no.t  
WordWorks Typing Service Term papers, dissertations, theses 277-7406  where you found the bag originally! ***********LOST********** Long black wool overcoat w/  WINTER MOVE-IN SPECIALS! IN HISTORICAL 4 PLEX! The  Catholics Vs. Mormons $5/each or 2 for $8 (Buy an XXL or XL, let a Large FREE)  Christmas Break. I can leave as early as Wednesday. I can drive a stick and will help with gas, foils, food, etc. Please call Chris at  the newspaper. To Rock-Keep working on you r air hockey game. Jen Beisty, I can't believe we were  
All WORDPROCESSING services.  nicest apts. you can find! 1 up, 1 on  Supplies extremely limited!!  x124B. Leave a message if not  actually at Senior Bar. You are  
Andy 234-8789  LOST during Flanner Formal:  main: 2 BDRM -many closets, built ins,  Available at Britton's Card Shop (Next to Tracks)  there and I'll call back ASAP. HELP!! I!!  seriously awesome. Beth, you have Herbie, what else is  
Babysitter/Housekeeper available 2nd semester, MWFS: pay negotiable, EXCELLENT REFERENCES. Please call Tanya at 283-1880.  LOST: Important set of Keys with NO leather keychain!!!!!!! Has 2 dorm keys (marked 211) and other keys. If found, please call x1 091. Please help.  beautiful oak staircase, hardwood floors & large finished extra room with closet on 3rd fir. Very attractive, spacious & airy! $425/mo.  OR Call: 287-6730 P-N--J SMC/ND SUMMER PROGRAMS.  BEANER finally turns 21 over break! Have a good time over break, but remember, the REAL  there to life?..almost done here ... To Pat McHugh, jump around man, but remember that looks don't correlate with age. Nicole, 5 months and you're off  
STEPHEN JAY GOULD IS COMING! Wednesday, December 9th at 8:00pm in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL VIGIL DEC.10@6PM STONEHENGE HUMAN RIGHTS DAY AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL Done with finals on Tuesday? Live in Maryland or DC? Cute blond needs help driving her new red car back to MDIDC. Call Mollie X4990. ILOST & FOUND I I LOST MY RED UMBRELLA DUI!IING THir URBAN PLUNGE MEETING IN THE LIBRARY AUD. LAST SUNQAY. PLEASE CALL AMY AT 4530. FOUND: ONE PAIR OF SUNGLASSES IN CASE AT USC GAME IN STUDENT SECTION. TO CLAIM. STOP IN ANTHONY TRAVEL. INC.. IN LAFORTUNE. HELP!! IF YOU MISTAKINGLY  I WANTED INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT ­Make money teaching English abroad. Japan and Taiwan. make $2000-$4000 + per month. Many provide room & board + other benefits! Financially & Culturally rewarding! For International Employment Group: (206)632-1146 ext. J5584. Need ride to KC area, Iowa or Cent. Mo. Xmas Brian 1078 NEED RIDE TO DC AREA ON FRI OF EXAM WEEK. WILL PAY GAS, TOLLS. JOE OR CHRIS 277-5733 Looking for 1-3 people who need Help! I need a ride to the WASHINGTON DC Area for X-mas Break. I can leave as early as Thurs. Dec. 17. Please call Allison at X4758 or X4721 ~!!" ? .~'"' ~· ~-''"-q' :. . ·'" ~ ;·· NO prot ha:s car but dislikes driving, seeks someone to share driving from South Bend December 26 to Akron-Cleveland area, and back January 2. Call AI at 5378. MODELS: Photographer needs college-age females for photos in sports apparel. Call Jim at 273-7074 after 5 for info.  1 BDRM -hardwood floors, trim, fireplace, French doors, built ins, extra closet space & storage! $410/mo. Laundry available for both in basement. For info, call Sharon Herman, 289-RENT/289-7416 after 5 or Lynn Walker 277-8000/277· 0697. WINTER MOVE-IN SPECIALS! FOR SALE CHRISTMAS SWEATSHIRTS for salel!! Call to see samples ... 273­2967. ND alum in Chicago has perfect X-mas gift for you from Mom and Dad: 1984 BMW 318i, sunroof, 5-spd., am/fm, cassette, garaged since owned, low miles, perfect condition, complete with ND sticker. Must sell! $6400 or best offer. (312) 348-7867. Gq IRISH! MEN'S GOLF CLUBS. PERFECT CHRISTMAS GIFT. EXCELLENT CONDITION. TWO SETS. ONE SET (POWERBILT GRAND SLAMS) HAS 3-PW, 1 ,3,4,5 WOODS. THE OTHER (HOGANS) HAS 2-PW, 1 ,3,4,5 WOODS. $100 EACH. CALL SHIRLEY 272-3753 AFTER 4:30PM.  LONDON AND ROME. MEETING DEC. 9TH, 6:15 pm-ND LIBRARY LOUNGE. INFO: CALL PROF. A.R. BLACK 284-4460 OR 272-3726 Anyone need a ride to Long Island for Christmas Break? X4035 to sarah, share, becks, and j j flash: you guys are the best! have a merry x-mas and a happy new year! love , the fifth roomie! PC, KUZINS, and the rest of the band-Good luck on finals -I know you'll ace them(at least the academic goddess will)!!! Remember: a)Don't go around nekkid b) I'll be calling for my messages c) We can all live vicariously through Bubba d) I know I can help you study productively e) We have the VCR to tape AMC, f) Mom and Grandma B should be sending brownies soon, and g) We don't have to worry about the C­word until January!l Be good! Love always, Phil (E-mail goddess) Winter Fest is coming. Winter Fest is coming. EASTBOUND FOR BREAK??? I need a ride to MAINE or as far as I can get! Please call Therese at 284-5061  PARTY begins when we return. Love ya A ROMA also turns a big 221 We love her too. (and miss her) Did I get your attention? *****************•···················· To: Mo, Steph, Kel, Sarah, Lynne, Deb, Breah, Andrea, Carrie & the rest of the Lyons Juniors ... HAVE AN AWESOME 2ND SEMESTER!! I'LL MISS YOU GUYS & CAN'T WAIT TO PARTY NEXT YEAR AT THE 'VIEW!I!! Mo-make sure you teach everyone 'down under' the words to "Baby Got Back!"; Carol-don't get burned!; and to Trish & Reel (Hosses!); Em, Cat, Wendster, Ang, Sue, and everyone else who's taking that plane to the UK, see you at the pubs!!!! LOVE ALWAYS, Jul-bo Hey Leo Sweeney '59 HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! love always, your Domer Daughter '93 AAAAAHHHI!!II'm stuck in South Bend over X-mas unless I get : RIDE TO CENTRAL PA(Scran­ton,Williams-port, Danville) I'll pay gas, tolls, your MEALS, anything!! Have finals Fri. Aft. but will leave  probation. Eibishl? To Domers-strap it on and go for what you want. Don't wuss out. Finally, to Pam I want to say that you could be so good for me. Stay creature on the answering machine message. Love and Peace, Rich P.S. 8 months later the MCAT still sucked. THIS YEAR, THE NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB CHRISTMAS CONCERT IS IN THE J.A.C.C. SATURDAY, DECEMBER 12 AT 8:15 TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK WHAT IS WINTER FEST? WINTER FEST WINTER FEST WINTER FEST WATCH FOR WINTER FEST! COMING ............. AFTER CHRISTMAS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! WINTER WINTER WINTER FEST FEST FEST FEST WINTER WINTER WINTER FEST FEST FEST FEST WINTER WINTER WINTER FEST FEST FEST FEST (brought to you by SUB)  - 
TOOK MY BROWN COVERED WEBSTER'S NEW COLLEGIATE DICTIONARY FROM THE LAFORTUNE MAC LAB ON THE NIGHT OF TUES., DEC. 1/WED. DEC 2 BETWEEN 1-3:30 AM, PLEASE RETURN IT!! BELIEVE IT OR NOT, IT HAS SENTIMENTAL VALUE AS I WAS AWARDED IT IN JR. HIGH FOR ENGLISH. I NEED IT!! PLEASE RETURN IT TO THE MAC LAB OR CALL CAIMIEN AT 283-1292. IT HAS MY NAME IN THE FRONT COVER! Lost: 14K gold bracelet. Would the young man who called on Thurs. Dec. 3 please call again? 239-7007. Thank you.  Need RIDERS to Wise, VA (SWVa) for Xmas break. Call Lisa at x2620 WANTED: WOMEN'S FIGURE SKATES, SIZE B. CALL SHIRLEY AT 272-3753 AFTER 4:30P.M. Female looking to share an apt. for spring sem. Call x4174 Need ride to Philly area for Xmas. Drive Stick Will pay 271-9714 Lv message I FOR RENT 4, 5 or 6 bdrm. furnished houses,  Nordic-track xx-ski machine. Great work-out. $250 (OBO). Musical Amplifier, Roland Cube-60. Compact but powerful. $120. (OB). Call Sue, 255-8862. 82 HONDA ACCORD LX, HATCHBACK, AUTO, AIR, AM/FM, RUNS GREAT. $1500. 239-6590 DAYS; 271-7005 AFTER 8 PM. For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call Rita Delivery on Campus 234-6524 BARGAIN TICKET from SOUTH BEND to PHILADELPHIA-Dec. 12 -$100.-Call289-8136 ·Leave message.  w I N T E R F E s T (brought to you by SUB) To my Grand Saint Mary's Sports Staff ... Great work! All of you know how important your jobs are.. Thanks for writing and see ya next year. Good luck on finals..  Fri. nile. Call Sue at x3098 Hello Cheryl, Gennie, La, Val, & Kim, Have A Merry Christmas & Don't Leave Anything In The Box!!! heh-heh-heh! Love, Col MARGE Hey Pima, Get a clue and start writing or you know what'll happen!! (Have you been good and practicing real hard?) -Who loves ya baby?  IT'S ERIKA MOEN'S BIRTHDAY ON DEC.10! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! LOVE YOUR ROOMIES ELIZABETH AND JULI! TO MARSHALL AND DODDS: YOUR WELCOME, BURP! LOVE, TINKY AND BUBBA P.S. I AM NOT WHIPPED!  
HELP!!! I lost my roomate's calculator at Molly's tutoring session on Mon. night. I've already lost 5 this semester and can't afford  SAFE, wash/dry, beach V-ball, sec.sys.233-9947. 2 bdr. apts available close to campus  OVATION COUNTRY\ARTIST ACOUSTIC GUITAR,LIKE NEW, ELECTRIC PLUG IN, BEST OFFER, 2553355  Your thankful SMC Sports Editor SENIORS It's never too early to plan ahead ...  STEPHEN JAY GOULD IS COMING! Wednesday, December 9th at 8:00 pm in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. BE THERE I  DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO RALEIGH NC? CALL 4330  -­ 
any more!Piease call Michelle at' 2241  $300 per month avilable for 2nd semester  NATHAN UY  SENIOR FORMAL APRIL 16, 17, 18  50,000,000  
Please Help! I lost my NO class ring outside Riley Hall main entrance. It is the typical  and '92 -'93 school year call 232 -8256 Near N.D. comfortable furnished  COITON BOWL TIX (up to 6, together): 100. ea. Call 214/739·7104 (evenings)  ...................., ..... TOP TEN QUOTES FROM BETHY & K'S LAST SEMESTER:  ••• GROVER!tl!! ••• Thursday night left me curious. must talk to you again. Call Rex  To Maureen Healy, How is childhood regression going? Are you having fun?  
style, with a large "NO" on the front.  apts. 1 bedrm $245, 2bedrm $280  10. Let's do tequila!  *1613 and dinner is on me!  Just wait, there's more ...  
My full name is inscribed within. If found, please call Tom at x1500 to  dep, ref. 1-800-582-9320  TICKETS  9. What's your secret? -Dry cleaning.  We're looking for the male runner  Secret Santa I Kris Kringle person  
claim your REWARD.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  8. Big red bursts with flavor in my  wearing BUGLE BOYS December 3  
219-291-7153  I AM LOOKING FOR 2 GAs FOR  mouth.  at 9 p.m. Please contact the girls in  
LOST: Set of KEYS, several weeks  THE COITON BOWL. CALL  7. How do you know your lips so  the Honda  
ago (before Thanksgiving). Two  ROOMMATE WANTED:  AFTER MON. DEC.14 AND ASK  well?  (284-4413, 284-4367, 284-4443.)  TO HEATHER BUNDY  
keys labled 728. Please call Greg  to live w/2 fern. grad students  FOR KELLY 283-4121.  6. Team chug!  Happy 19th Birthday  
at x4239 if found. REWARD!  $175, incl. util., washer/dryer  5. Quit rubbing up and down my  Let's Go Greyhound  Why not celebrate in style­ 
call277-20651v message  DESPARATELY NEED 2 GAS TO  leg.  New York· $116 rnd/trip.  Shave your legs 3 times  
LOST: Navy blue blazer w/ initials  THE COITON BOWL CALL  4. Would you mind if I take my  D.C. -$135 rnd/trip.  Just be thankful we didn't put in  
L.M.H. inside at B.P.'s dance last  SPACIOUS 6 BDRM HOME,NEAR  COLLECT: 417-623-6087  shirt off?  Richmond VA -$147.50 rnd/trip.  THE pictures!  
Friday. I have another blazer w/ no  CAMPUS.SECURITY  3. What exactly is illegal use of  Philadelphia ­$128. rnd/trip.  
name. Reward. Call 1208  SYSTEM.FURN. FALL 1993.272­ Need GAs to Kentucky x4890$$  the hands?  Call 287-6541 tor details.  
6306  2. But if something should happen  
LOST: 14K GOLD BRACELET REWARD OFFERED. 239-7007  Furnished room. $200/Mo  1 PERSONAL  to present itself .... 1. You guys -I lost my skirt!!!  Adoption: Doctor and teacher will make dreams tor your baby come  MERRY CHRISTMAS To Mom, Patman, Julie, Willy,  
FROM 8-5 OR 277-5132 AFTER 5.  287-2159 Paul  true. Full-time parenting. Best of the  Zhack and Jackie.  
SKIIS ... please ... SKIIS ... please If you have any info on Rossignol & K2 skiis that SKIIED out of a  LAFAYEITE SQUARE still accepting names for  Hey Krusty Merry X-Mass I Hope Santa Brings You everything  The real world can't possibly be ready tor you two! Have a blast showing 'em what you're made of. We love you lots & we'll miss you  city; summers by the beach: your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the  Love, Amy  
storage closet in Farley Hall, contact Paula at 283-4271.  the '93-'94 school year for more info  you want, and Me Too!  more. Love, M,K,C,M,J,K,L,&J.  best edu.cation, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect.  ###Are you driving to Buffalo for Xmas? I need a ride! Call1337.  
Reward if found ... extra Christmas  call 232-8256  (212)369-2597.  
cash ... Piease!l!  

Page 20 The Observer December 9, 1992
......................................................• 
....... 
,=.-, • 0 ~~· : ·: . : :: : : : :: : -'% 0 -..e­
~ '-',~ ' ; ••••• • • ••••• •••••• •••••• •••••• ••••• • • It . 11!-<::»
•

~...:=,.. '\: <A%$iW • ! ! , ! '.. ! ! ! ! '.. ! ! 1\Mr..;s '#~ ~ 
..... ..... ..... ........ ...... ..... . ....... 
NHL STANDINGS 
TRANSACTIONSNBA STANDINGS 

EASTERN CONFERENCE WALES CONFERENCE BASEBALL AUanUe Diviaion Diviaion League
Patrick American w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Coni w L T Pta GF GA Home A-y Dlv AL-Nann&d PhyiWa K Merhlge vice-president for 
NewYork 11 6 .647 7-3 Woo 2 9-0 2-6 6-3 Ptttaburgh 20 7 3 43 138 108 11-1-2 9-6-1 8-2-1 administration and public affairs. New Jersey 10 8 .556 1112 6-4 Lost 1 4-5 6-3 6-3 Washington 14 13 2 30 112 101 6-6-1 8-7-1 4-8-0 BOSTON RED SOX-Acquired Ivan Calderon, Orlando 8 7 .533 2 5-5 Lost 4 4-2 4-5 6-4 N-Jersey 14 11 1 29 91 87 7-6-0 7-5-1 76-0 outfielder, from the Montreal Expos for Mike Boston 8 10 .444 3112 6-4 Won 1 5-3 3-7 7-9 NY Rangers 13 11 3 29 109 103 9-5-1 4-6-2 7-6-0 Gardiner and Terry Powers, p~chers. Agreed to Washington 6 10 .375 4112 5-5 Lost 1 5-3 1-7 3-9 Philadelphia 10 12 4 24 104 110 6-3-2 2-9-2 5-6-1 terms with Scott Bankhead, pncher, on a two-year Miami 4 11 .267 6 1-9 Lost 5 3-4 1-7 4-9 NY Islanders 10 13 4 24 106 109 5-5-0 5-8-4 6-9-0 contract. Philadelphia 3 11 .214 6112 2-8 Lost 7 1-7 2-4 3-10 Adlllll8 Dlvlalon CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Acquired Kelly Gruber, 
C.ntral Olvlaion 18 3 120 11-2-2 6-4-0
Montreal 8 39 85 7-6-1 third baseman. and cash from the Toronto Blue Chicago 11 5 .688 6-4 Lost 1 5-1 6-4 5-4 Boston 17 7 2 36 111 88 9-2-2 6-5-0 7-3-0 Jays for Luis Sojo, Infielder. Milwaukee 10 6 .625 1 6-4 Lost 3 6-2 4-4 8-4 Quebec 14 10 5 33 125 109 9-6-1 5-4-4 6-2-2 CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Agreed to terms with Atlanta 9 8 .529 2112 7-3 Won 2 5-3 4-5 7-6 Buffalo 10 13 5 25 123 107 6-3-2 2-1Q-3 7-3-2 Dave Stleb, phcher, on a one-year contract. Charlone 9 8 .529 2112 6-4 Lost 1 4-3 5-5 5-6 Hartford 7 18 1 15 76 121 3-9-1 4-9-0 4-7-1 CLEVELAND INDIANS-Agreed to terms with Indiana 8 8 .500 3 4-6 Won 2 5-4 3-4 7-6 onawa 3 24 2 8 64 135 3-11-2 Q-13-0 1-12-1 Bob Ojeda, pitcher, to a one-year contract and 
.471 3112 5-5 Lost 2 6-3 2-6 6-3 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE J unlor Ortiz, catcher, to a minor-league contract. Detroit 5 9 .357 5 3-7 Won 3 3-3 2-6 5-4 Norrla Dlvlalon KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Agreed to terms with WESTERN CONFERENCE w L T Pta GF GA Home Away Dlv David Cone, pncher, and Greg Gagne, shortstop, 
MiciWHI Diviaion Cleveland 8 9 Minnesota 16 9 3 35 102 88 6-4-3 10-5-0 7-2-0 on three-year contracts, and Curtis Wilkerson, 

w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Coni Chicago 15 11 4 34 100 88 8-3-3 7-8-1 7-4-2 Infielder, on a one-year contract. Utah 10 5 ..667 7-3 Won 4 4-4 6-1 7-3 Detro~ 15 14 1 31 130 116 9-7-0 6-7-1 6-5-1 NEW YORK YANKEES-Agreed to terms with Houston 8 6 .571 1112 6-4 Won 1 5-3 3-3 5-4 Toronto 11 12 4 26 80 87 7-4-3 4-8-1 4-5-2 Steve Howe, phcher, on a two-year contract. Denver 7 8 .467 3 6-4 Lost 1 6-2 1-6 4-5 St. Louis 10 14 4 24 103 116 8-4-3 2-1Q-1 2-8-2 OAKLAND ATHLETICS--Agreed to terms with San Antonio 6 9 .400 4 5-5 Lost 2 4-2 2-7 3-5 Tarfllll Bay 10 17 2 22 101 112 6-8-0 4-9-2 5-7-1 Storm Davis, pncher, on a two-year contract. Minnesota 4 10 .286 5112 2-8 Lost 3 2-5 2-5 1-5 Smythe Dlvlalon TEXAS RANGERS-Agreed to terms with Bob DaUas 1 12 .077 8 1-9 Lost 9 1-6 0-6 0-9 Lo& Angeles 19 7 2 40 130 97 12-1-0 7-6-2 8-4-1 Panerson, pncher, on a one-year contract and Pacific Dlviaion Calgary 16 9 3 35 115 95 10-6-1 6-3-2 6-3-2 Francisco Oliveras, Mark Lee and Willie Smith, Phoenix 11 4 .733 7-3 Won 4 7-1 4-3 8-3 Vancouver 16 9 2 34 120 86 11-2-1 5-7-1 10-4-1 pitchers, on minor-league contracts. Portland 11 4 .733 6-4 Won 1 7-1 4-3 6-2 Edmonton 9 15 4 22 79 118 5-6-2 4-9-2 4-1Q-O TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Agreed to terms with Seanle 11 5 .688 1/2 6-4 Lost 1 9-1 2-4 6-3 Winnipeg 8 15 3 19 88 105 5-5-2 3-1Q-1 3-7-2 Danny Cox, phcher, on a minor-league contract. LA Clippers 1 0 6 .625 1112 8-2 Won 4 6-2 4-4 5·6 San Jose 5 21 1 11 76 132 3-12-0 2-9-1 3-8-0 National league 
LA Lakers 9 

6 .600 2 7-3 Won 1 5-3 4-3 8-5 Monday'• Gamea CHICAGO CUBS-Agreed to terms with Dan Sacramento 6 9 .400 5 3-7 Lost 1 5-3 1-6 5-7 Quebec 4, Buffalo 3 Plesac, pitcher, on a two-year contract. Golden State 6 10 .375 5112 4-6 Won 1 2-5 4-5 3-4 Washington 6, onawa 5 FLORIDA MARLINS-Agreed to terms with Dave 
N-York Islanders 6, Tarrpa Bay 1 Magadan, first baseman, and Charlie Hough, Phoenix 122, Milwaukee 112 Calgary 6, Edmonton 3 pitcher, on minor-league contracts. LA Lakers 107, Minnesota 85 NBA INDIVIDUAL SlATS Vancouver 4, St. Louis 3 PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES--Agreed to terms 
Monday'a Gamea Sunday'a Gamea 

Tueaday'a Gamea with Pete lncaviglia, outfielder, on a two-yearScoring
No games scheduled Late Games Not lnduded contract. 
G FG FT Pis Avg
Tueaday'a Gamee Pittsburgh 5, Winnipeg 2 SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Agreed to terms 
Jordan, Chi. 14 179 95 466 33.3 
with Barry Bonds, outfielder, on a six-year contract. 

Late Games Not lnduded Chicago 3, Detroh 2 
K. Malone, Utah 15 138 149 427 28.5
N-York 100, Seanle 88 Calgary at Edmonton, (n) FOOTBALL 
MuWin,G.S. 16 184 73 454 28.4
Phoenix 105, N-Jersey 100 Montreal vs. Lo& Angeles at Phoenix, (n) National Football League Atlanta 123, Chicago 114 Wedneaday'a Game• NEW YORK GIANTS-Placed Brian Williams,
WUklns, All. 16 149 114 437 27.3 14 95
LA Clippers 115, Cleveland 106 Barkley, Phoe. 117 341 24.4 Tarrpa Bay vs. New York Rangers at Miarri, 7:40p.m center, on Injured reserve. Signed Chris Thome. 
Olajuwon, Hou. 14 139 59 337 24.1
Boston 117, Orlando 102 Boston at Buffalo, 7:40 p.m. center. Miami at Dallas, (n) onawa at Hartford, 7:40p.m. TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS-Placed Ron Hall.
Robinson, S.A. 15 121 111 353 23.5 Petrovic, N.J. 17 148 74 396 23.3
Minnesota at Houston, (n) Washington at N-Jersey, 7:40p.m. tight end, on Injured reserve. 
Anderson, 0~. 14 119 73 324 23.1
Utah at San Antonio, (n) Detron • Toronto. 7:40 p.m. HOCKEY 
Dumars, Det. 13 104 66 290 22.3
Indiana at Golden State, (n) San Jose at Vancouver, 10:40 p.m. National Hockey League
O'Neal, Or!. 14 117 78 312 22.3
Washington at Sacramento, (n) Thuraday'a Gamea HARTFORD WHALERS-Recalled Corrie Milwaukee at Portland, (n) J. Malone, Utah 14 126 58 310 22.1 onawa at Boston, 7:40 p.m D'Aiesslo, goaltender, from Springfield of the Miller, Ind. 16 117 102 354 22.1
Wedneaday'a Gamea Edmonton at Minnesota, 8:10p.m American Hockey League. 
Hardaway, G.S. 16 131 65 351 21.9
Denver at Boston, 7:30 p.m. N-York Islanders at Chicago, 8:40 p.m. TAMPA BAY LIGHTNING-Traded Dan 
Rice, Mia. 15 120 60 327 21.8 
Vincelene, left wing, to the Philadelphia Flyers for Manning, LAC 15 131 61 323 21.5
Seanle at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. Quebec at Loa Angeles, 10:40 p.m. 
Phoenix at Charlone, 7:30p.m. St. Louis at San Jose. 10:40 p.m. Steve Kaspet, center. 
Richmond, Sac. 15 115 79 322 21.5 
American Hockey LeagueEwing, N.Y. 16 138 65 341 21.3
Orlando at Detrott, 7:30p.m. 

SPRINGFIELD INDIANS-Recalled Scott Johnson, Char. 17 136 80 357 21.0 AssistsCleveland at Chicago, 8:30 p.m. 
Humeniuk, defenseman; Kelly Ens. left wing. andPortland at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. 

L-is, Boa. 17 143 64 352 20.7 Rebounding G No Avg 
Pat McGarry, goahender. from Louisville of the EastThuraday'a Gamea G 01 Del Ta Avg Stockton, Utah 15 184 12.3 

Coast Hockey League. Field Goal Percentage Rodman, Del. 9 38 105 143 15.9 Hardaway, G.S. 16 164 10.3
Charlene at N-York, 7:30p.m. 
SOCCER
LA Clippers at N-Jers11y, 7:30 p.m. 

-
FG FGA Pd O'Neal, Or!. 14 69 140 209 14.9 M. Jackson, LAC 15 142 9.5 
Continental Indoor Soccer LeagueMinnesota at Dallas, 8:30p.m. 

Turner, 0~. 56 95 .589 Olajuwon, Hou. 14 42 153 195 13.9 Bogues, Char. 17 158 9.3 
SAN DIEGO SOCKERS-Named Judi PillowMiami at San Antonio, 8:30p.m 

Robertson, Mil. 80 142 .563 Barkley, Phoe. 14 61 131 192 13.7 Skiles, Orl. 14 117 8.4 
corporate sales executive. Edwards, Mil. 108 193 .560 Ewing, N.Y. 16 42 155 197 12.3 Williams, Minn. 12 99 8.3
Washington at Utah, 9 p.m. 
COLLEGEMilwaukee at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. 

Garrble, Bo&. 72 129 .558 K. Malone, Utah 15 43 136 179 11.9 Adams, Wash. 13 106 82
Indiana at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. CLEMSON-Named Whitney Jordan offensive 
Corbin, Utah 74 133 .556 Willis, All. 16 67 123 190 11.9 Coles, Mia. 15 116 7.7 
coordinator. 

K. Malone, Utah 138 251 .550 Robinson, S.A. 15 49 127 176 11.7 Thomas, Del. 12 92 7.7 
MONMOUTH, N.J.-Announced the resignation

Brlckowskl, Mil. 83 152 .546 Mutorrbo, Den. 15 55 109 164 10.9 Anderson, N.J. 17 130 7.6 
of Scott Ridley, women's soccer coach. 

Mason, N.Y. 78 143 .545 Johnson, Char. 17 47 131 178 10.5 Brown, Boa. 17 129 7.6 Owens,G.S. 123 226 .544 Murdock, MII. 16 121 7.6 Perry, Phil. 52 96 .542 
COMPACT DISCS I CASSETTfS I vIDEOS I AlJD I 0 ACCESSOI~ I ES I CARRYING CASE.S I HOME STORAGE I (') 
.......... 
0 3: 
(/) 
-o 

(/) 


(') 
w JHI HAMMIS )> 
---i u <( NOJHI DAMI HOOKSJOHI 
0 
(.!)
·n the campus­

(/) (') 
w (/) 
::::: UP IN MONOAY-SAJUHOAY 9-5 
0 
(/) 1/) 
w 
u 
u 
<( 
0 

0 

::J .......... 
<( 
.......... 
0 
(/) 
~ 

·-0 0 < 
w (.!) 
0 .......... 
> 
)> 
c 
0 
Vi 

w 0 
I­I­)> 
w (') 
(/) (') (/) 
~ 

<( (.!) u (.!) 
0 

.......... ;:o 
(/) TALKING HEADS ALL OTHERS 
~ 

u Popular Favorites (/) 1976-1992 
Sand In The Vaseline
0 

(/) ~D Sff.99 ~ 
u 

1-CD $24.99
<( 
~ 

TJIPE $7.99 ~ 
~ 

TAPE$19.99 
u 0 EXPIRES 12/17/92 .......... COMPACT DISCS I CASSETTfS I VIDEOS I AUDIO ACCfSSORIFS I CARRYING CASES I HOME STORAGE I 
Wednesday, December 9,1992 
Hoops 
continued from page 32 
Down 17 with 5:16 left in the half. the Irish started to hit on all cylinders. Russell hit a turn­around ·in the lane and then stripped Hoosier point guard Damon Bailey at the other end of the court leading to three points for Notre Dame on a Billy Taylor free throw and a Monty Williams tip. 
Then Lamarr Justice and Carl Cozen, both coming off th-e bench, gave the Irish and the JACC crowd a real spark. 
Cozen hit a three with 2:01 left in the half, but Justice had a phenomenal last three min­utes. 
He made two free throws after being fouled on a drive with 3:03 in the half, then picked up a loose ball and went down the court for a lay-up with 1:33. With 53 seconds left, Justice drilled a three-point basket to cut the IU lead to eight, before two Brian Evans foul shots gave the Hoosiers a 10-point lead at the half. 
"What loo~ed like a blow-out was averted," MacLeod said, and the pesky Irish were within striking distance. 
"We got off to a really good start. We had it at a point where they should not have been able to come back," said Indiana coach Bob Knight. "But they did." 
Justice, who came back to start the second half, picked up where he left off, making a steal and converting the lay-up a minute into the half. 
The Irish kept picking away at the Hoosier lead throughout 
The Observer 

the remainder of the game, coming back with defense. In­diana made only eight field goals in the second half. 
Notre Dame held the Hoosiers without a basket from 13:03 until just 2:06 remained in the game, when Calbert Cheaney, the Hoosier star canned a three. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame hung in the game when they had every chance to pack it in. Down three points with 12:08 left to play, Monty Williams, the leading scorer with 19 points and rebounder with 12 for the Irish, drove the lane, hit the lay-up, and drew a whistle. 
Unfortunately, the whistle was for a charge, sending Williams to the bench for al­most five minutes. 
"I had no idea they were call­ing a foul on me," Williams said. "The referee who called it • came from 30 feet away." 
In the final 10 minutes of the game, the lead changed 10 times. The Irish went up for the last time by two points with 
3:04 left, on Hoover's second three-pointer of the night. ' 
But as the top player on a team is expected to do, Cheaney stepped forward for Indiana. The 6-6 senior scored six points over the final three minutes before Nover's shot iced the game. 
"We tried to keep him from getting the basketball, but it seems like he can get a shot anytime he wants it," MacLeod said of Cheaney, who scored 19 points on the night. 
"We're not into moral victo­ries," MacLeod said. "It was a winnable game." 
Procler&Gamble ... 
"Procter & Gamble and Wal-Mart: A Partnership For Growth" 
Presen~ed by Mr. Tom Muccio, The Procter & Gamble Company Director of Wal-Mart Customer Business Development 
Wednesday, January 20, 1993 6:00p.m. Pizza Party following Presentation 
Center for Continuing Education 1st Floor Auditorium 
-
Casual Dress Please Also meet representatives from P&G disciplines 

page 22 
Bill Laimbeer overcomes rocky beginnings in NBA 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. (AP) ­Bill Laimbeer is only the 19th player in NBA history to score 10,000 points and grab 10,000 rebounds. Not bad for a third­round draft pick who spent his first year in Italy. 
Laimbeer began the season with 12,995 points. He snagged the magic rebound Saturday night, early in Detroit's 112-88 blowout of the Philadelphia 76ers. 
"It's a lot of rebounds over a lot of years," Laimbeer says. "It means I've worked hard at my job. I've remained healthy, too. You can't do something like that without staying healthy." 
To see Laimbeer lumber up and down the court, and to
• 
hear the verbal abuse he takes in NBA arenas, it's a wonder he could do it at all. 
"I think it's a remarkable feat, especially for him," Pistons' coach Ron Rothstein says with a chuckle. "Billy is a unique guy. When he first came out of college, he went to Europe. He struggled." 
Laimbeer was used to getting his way. He grew up in south­ern California, the son of rich parents. His father William was chief executive of a division of Owens-Illinois. 
When the Cleveland Cavaliers refused to guarantee his con­tract after graduation from Notre Dame in 1979, Laimbeer played in the Italian League for
-' $40,000. The Cavs traded him to the Pistons along with Kenny Carr in 1982 for Phil Hubbard, Paul 
-
Mokeski, and a first-and sec­ond-round draft choice. 
"I didn't realize what a com­petitor he was until I came here," Rothstein says. "Then you start to realize how badly he wants to win. He's slowed down a bit, and you can't play him as many minutes as we'd like to. But he's playing very well for us right now." 
Slowed down? C'mon coach. If Laimbeer were any slower, he'd be a mailbox. 
''I've never been able to run or jump," the 35-year-old Laimbeer says. "But I work hard to get the most out of what talent I do have." 
And that has put him in some rather select company. The list of players with 10,000 points and 10,000 rebounds includes Wilt Chamberlain, Bill Russell, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Bob Lanier. 
It might also be worthy to note that the likes of Larry Bird, Dave DeBusschere and Artis Gilmore never achieved 10,000 rebounds. 
"It is nice," Isiah Thomas says. "He was drafted late and he was not supposed to do anything. But he's gotten the most out of his talents." 
Of course, if you ask around the NBA, folks might say his greatest talent is in making people crazy. Laimbeer has made a career out of being the player people love to hate. For example: 
-A headline in Milwaukee once proclaimed him "The 
~--------------------~======================~ 


Solutions from your Apple Campus Reseller. The Apple Computer Loan. 
"I expected to pay alot more than $35 amonth for anew Macintosh Ilsi and aprinter."
jennifer Minaya 
Nursing Major 

Jennifer obtained an Apple Computer Loan* that allowed her 
to buy her Apple® Macintosh®. Ilsi and an Apple Personal LaserWriter~ LS printer. She knew that owning a powerful Macintosh computer for her full course load and her work as adoctor's assistant was asmart thing to do. And the Apple Computer Loan was the smart way to do it: easy application, fast turnaround and low, flexible payment terms. SoJennifer went to the only place that offers the Apple Computer Loan, her Apple Campus Reseller. 
Macintosh. It's more than apresent, it's afuture. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 Math/Computer Building 
239-7477 

© 1992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, and LaserWriter are registered trademark.; of Apple Computer, Inc. 'Based on jennifer Minaya's Apple ComputerLoan of$3,077.76, her monthly payment was $35 (interest only) as of 10/7!92. Principal payments may be deferred up to 4years. The Interest rate IS vanable, and IS based on the average of the h1gher of the 30-day or 90-day commercial paper rates as reported in the Wall Street journal, plus aspread of 5.35% (not to exceed 5.6%). The tenm of the loan is 8 years with no pre-payment penalty. The total finance charge on every $1,000 borrowed w11i be $543.38. Each applicant pays a $35.00 non-refundable application fee. Approved borrowers will be charged a 4% loan originanon fee. The loan ongmanon fee wlil be added to the requested loan amount and repaid over the life of the loan. For the month ofOctober 1992, the interest rate was 7.6% with an APR of8.85%. 
' ~ ') ' ' .... 

'g(j'f'P·.~W! '•~'1•.-'4t'ifAll· '' The Observer Wednesday, December 9,1992 
Prince 

-Johnny Most, the legendary Celtics broadcaster, called him "Ax Murderer." 
"A lot of people have a turnoff about competitive people," Laimbeer says. "I always use the example of Pete Rose. He played to win every time. But there's a lot of people who dis­like him because of his style of play. They thought he was too competitive. It scares off a lot of people." 
Since October 1980, Laimbeer has missed only four games. He missed two when Cleveland coach Bill Musselman benched him in 1981. And he missed one each in 1989 and 1990 when he was suspended by the NBA for fighting. 
"The significance is that he's done a great job for this team ove~ a lot of years," Sixers 
FOR DETAILS ...

coach Doug Moe says. "And BRING THIS TICKET TO they've won championships FUNTAN, INC., STATE RD. 23 UNIVERSITY COMMONS, SOUTH BEND, IN
because of his efforts." 


WedQesday, Degember 9,1992 The Observer page 23 

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA JOSEPHINE HAYNES, et al., Plaintiffs. ) 
v ) No. PCA 89-30093-RV SHONEY'S, INC., et al., Defendants. ) 
NOTICE OF PROPOSED CLASS ACTION SETTLEMENT AND CONSENT DECREE 
TO: BLACK PERSONS WHO ( 1 ) UNSUCCESSFULLY APPLIED FOR EMPLOYMENT, (2) WOULD HAVE APPLIED FOR EMPLOYMENT BUT FOR THEIR BELIEFS OF RACIALLY BIASED HIRING PRACTICES AGAINST BLACK PERSONS, OR (3) ARE CURRENTLY OR HAVE BEEN EMPLOYED AT SHONEY'S, INC.'S CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS IN NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE OR ANY SHONEY'S, CAPTAIN D'S, LEE'S FAMOUS RECIPE, FIFTH QUARTER. OR PARGO'S RESTAURANTS OWNED AND OPERATED BY SHONEY'S, INC. 
Shoney's, Inc. and Raymond L. Danner have agreed to settle an employment discrimination class action lawsuit now pending in the United States District Court in Pensacola, Florida. The lawsuit claimed that Shoney's, Inc. and Raymond L. Danner discriminated against black applicants for employment and black employees at Shoney's, Inc.'s Corporate Headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee and at Shoney's, Captain D's, Lee's Famous Recipe, Fifth Quarter, or Parga's Restaurants owned and operated by Shoney's, Inc. 
THE PURPOSE OF THIS NOTICE IS TO ADVISE: 
• 
OF THE STATUS OF THE LAWSUIT, INCLUDING A STATEMENT OF YOUR RIGHTS WITH RESPECT TO A PROPOSED SETTLEMENT OF THE CASE 

• 
IF YOU HAVE A POTENTIAL CLAIM AS AN APPLICANT, THE REQUIREMENT THAT YOU MUST MAIL A REQUEST FOR CLAIM FORM 

• 
IF YOU ARE A CURRENT OR FORMER EMPLOYEE, YOU MAY MAIL A REQUEST FOR CLAIM FORM IN ORDER TO ASSURE THAT THERE IS A RECORD OF YOUR CORRECT CURRENT ADDRESS 

• 
OF THE OPPORTUNITY TO FILE WITH THE COURT AN OBJECTION TO THE SETTLEMENT 


1. The Affected Classes. The following persons may be entitled to receive benefits, including a monetary award, 
established in the proposed settlement: All black persons who unsuccessfully applied for employment at any time between February 4, 1985 and November 3, 1992 at Shoney's, Inc.'s Corporate Headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee or at any restaurant owned and operated by Shoney's, Inc. (Applicants); All black persons who are current or former employees at Shoney's, Inc.'s corporate headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee or at any restaurant owned and operated by Shoney's, Inc. and who were employed in one or more of those restaurants between February 4, 1985 and November 3, 1992 (Current or Former Employees); and All black persons who would have applied for employment at any time between February 4, 1985 and November 3, 1992 at Shoney's, Inc.'s corporate headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee or at any restaurant owned and operated by Shoney's, Inc. but failed to apply because of their belief that Shoney's, Inc. engaged in racially biased hiring practices against black persons (Constructive Applicants). 
2. 
Terms of Proposed Settlement. Subject to Court approval, the plaintiffs and defendants have agreed to the entry of a Decree by the Court that establishes certain hiring goals, a settlement fund and certain injunctive relief agreed to in order to satisfy claims of the plaintiffs and class members and to pay attorneys' fees, costs, and other expenses of litigation and settlement. This relief will be in final settlement of all claims by the plaintiffs and class members against Shoney's, Inc. and Raymond L. Danner for claims of employment discrimination and/or retaliation because of race that were raised or could have been raised in this case. 

3. 
The Settlement Fund. The proposed Decree requires Shoney's, Inc. to establish a Settlement Fund in the amount of $105,000,000.00 for payments to qualified claimants and for payment of some expenses that will be incurred in the settlement and claims process, not including attorneys' fees. Pursuant to the Decree, Shoney' s, Inc. also has agreed to pay Class Counsel's attorneys fees, costs &Ad-expenses. The Settlement Fund will be used to pay monetary awards to qualified class members who comply with the claims procedure required by the Court. The exact amount of funds to be paid from the Settlement Fund for which a claimant might be eligible will be determined by the claims procedure, eligibility requirements and other limitations set forth in the Decree. Payments to qualified claimants will be made over a specified period of time as required by the Decree. Constructive Applicants will generally receive the benefits of the equitable hiring goals established by the Decree but will not be eligible to receive a monetary award from the Settlement Fund. 

4. 
Claims Procedure for Applicants. If you are a member of the Applicant class mentioned above and want to be eligible for participation in the settlement, you must submit a written Request for Claim Form; a sample is printed at the bottom of this notice. THE REQUEST FOR CLAIM FORM MUST BE SENT TO THE COURT CLERK'S OFFICE AT THE ADDRESS SHOWN BELOW AND MUST BE POSTMARKED NO LATER THAN January 11, 1993. If the proposed Decree is given final approval by the Court, you will be sent a specific Claim Form only if you have previously sent a Request for Claim Form stating that you may want to file a claim. Each claimant must complete and return the Claim Form in accordance with the instructions on the Claim Form. PLEASE NOTE THAT SENDING A REQUEST FOR CLAIM FORM OR RETURNING THE ACTUAL CLAIM FORM DOES NOT GUARANTEE YOUR PARTICIPATION IN THE SETILEMENT FUND. 

5. 
Claims Procedure for Current or Former Employees. If you are a member of the Current or Former Employee Class, you may file a Request for Claim Form to assure that there is a record of your current address. Shoney's, Inc. will be mailing claim forms to all Current or Former Employees for whom Shoney's, Inc. has a valid, current address. Shoney's, Inc.'s records, however, may not contain a correct address. It is your responsibility to assure that Class Counsel has your correct address. 

6. 
Other Affirmative Relief. The proposed Decree also establishes goals for hiring Black persons in certain positions with Shoney·s, Inc., implementation of an internal complaint procedure, training and educational programs, as well as other obligations. 


1. Binding Effect. The proposed Decree, if finally approved by the Court, will be binding on all class members and will bar any person who is a member of the classes from seeking relief other than that provided tor in the Decree from Shoney's, Inc. or Danner for claims of employment discrimination and/or retaliation because of race. Class members will not be allowed to exclude themselves from the terms of the Decree. 
8. 
Objections to the Consent Decree. If you believe that the proposed Decree should not be finally approved for any reason, you may present your objection at a hearing on January 25, 1993, at 1:00 p.m. at the United States District Court, United States Courthouse, 100 North Palafox Street, Pensacola, Florida. Any member of the settlement classes who wants to object to the proposed Decree must file an objection and appear at the hearing. The objections must be filed in writing with the United States District Court Clerk's Office, with service of copies upon Class Counsel and for the defendants, on or before January 11, 1993. Any attorney who will represent an individual objecting to the Decree must file a notice of appearance with the Court and serve counsel for all parties on or before the same date. 

9. 
Clerk's Address. The Clerk's address is: Office of the Clerk, United States District Court, Northern District of Florida, United States Courthouse, 100 North Palafox Street, Pensacola, Florida 32501. All Request for Claim Forms or other correspondence must state the name and number of the case, Haynes v. Shoney's Inc., No. PCA 89-30093-RV. 

10. 
Class Counsel/Further Information. If you change your address after sending in the Request for Claim Form, it is your obligation to inform Class Counsel in writing. Failure to report a change of address may result in a qualified claimant being barred from receiving the benefits of the settlement. If you have any questions about the Decree, you may call or write the offices of Class Counsel at the following addresses or call the toll free number listed below: 


Thomas A. Warren Barry L. Goldstein 501 East Tennessee Street/SuiteD Saperstein, Mayeda, Larkin & 
P.O. Drawer 1657 Goldstein Tallahassee, Florida 32302 1300 Clay Street/11th Floor Tel. 1-800-950-1556 Oakland, California 94612 
They or ·someone from their office will talk to you free of charge. YOU MAY OBTAIN A COPY OF THE DECREE AT YOUR EXPENSE. TO OBTAIN A COPY, YOU MUST CONTACT THE OFFICE OF THE U.S. DISTRICT COURT CLERK AT THE ADDRESS SET FORTH ABOVE. 
11. Address of Defense Counsel. For purposes of serving copies of any objections, the address for service on counsel for the Defendants is: James G. Ramsey, Farris, Warfield & Kanaday, Suite 1900, Third National Financial Center, Nashville, TN 37219 
If the Settlement is not approved by the Court, no money will be paid and the case will proceed to trial. However, there is no assurance that any later decision would be in favor of class members, and if it were, that it would be as favorable to the class members as this settlement. 
Dated this 24th day of November, 1992. Clerk of Court, United States District Court, Northern District of Florida, Pensacola Division 
Haynes v. Shoney's, Inc.-PCA-89-30093-RV (N.D. Fla.) REQUEST FOR CLAIM FORM 
NAME (Last) (First) (Middle Initial) 
PRESENT ADDRESS 
HOME PHONE (Include Am Code) 
MAJ.L...m; 
Oflice of the Cleric United Shltea Diatnct Court Northam Diatnct of Florida United Shltea Courthouse 100 North Palafox Street Penucola, Florida 32501 

City Stille Zip Code 
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER TO RECEIVE A CLAIM FORM(S), CHECK THE BOX(ES) WHICH APPLY: 
APPLICANT:  0  
CURRENT EMPLOYEE:  0  
FORMER EMPLOYEE:  0  

Signature 

Landry's move doesn't 
-
solve Chicago's woes 
CHICAGO (AP) -The Chicago Bears have tried almost every­thing to break out of their los­ing streak. 
They even sent offensive co­ordinator and play-caller Greg Landry upstairs to the skybox Monday night, leaving coach Mike Ditka alone to call the plays on the sidelines at Hous­ton. 
"I went up there to see if I could help the team," Landry said Tuesday after the Bears' 24-7 loss to the Oilers. "I could see the (Oilers') defense a little bit better.... I'd suggest a play here and there." 
Landry doesn't know if he will be upstairs again on Sunday when the Bears play host to the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
Nothing much has worked re­cently for the Bears, who have lost six straight games to fall to 4-9. They are 0 for November and December. 
They have tried P.T. Willis at quarterback for two straight weeks after Jim Harbaugh started the first 11 games of the season. 
Ditka, on his Tuesday after­noon radio show on WSCR ra­dio, said Harbaugh would start against the Steelers on Sunday. 
Ditka blamed Willis' problems Monday night on the offensive line. 
"We just really really had poor pass protection," Ditka said. "P. T. is a good drop-back passer, but he needs more time." 
Ditka gave the players their usual Tuesday off this week, so Willis and Harbaugh were not around Halas Hall. 
At Houston, Willis completed 11 of 14 for 185 yards and had two passes intercepted. He was under pressure all night and was the victim of five sacks. 
Against the Browns a week earlier, Willis passed for 285 yards. 
As a team, the Bears have looked better on paper than on the field lately. They are third in offensive yardage in the NFC and seventh in defense yardage. 
"One thing that has really hurt in the past few weeks is turnovers. Although we're moving the football, we've re­ally shot ourselves in the foot with all the turnovers we've had. The first half of the season we had very few," Landry said. 
The team has 18 takeaways in the 13 games and 26 giveaways for a ratio of minus-8, the second worst mark in the conference. Phoenix is last with minus-10. 
"We've really put ourselves in a bad position," Landry said. "We've given up points offen­sively with interceptions. It seems every time we throw an interception it goes for a touch­down this year." 
The team has given up six in­terceptions for TDs, only one shy of the NFL record. 
"If a break happens, it goes against us," the offensive coor­dinator said. 
Landry thinks the team feels a bit snake-bitten at times. 
"There is some element of luck in the game and we cer­tainly haven't had much this year," Landry said. 
Landry doesn't think the players have given up. "The players are playing hard. I don't see anybody quitting," 
Landry sees the Bears win­ning again if they can avoid costly fumbles and intercep­tions. 
"The feeling what we can do offensively is to reduce the turnovers and if we can reduce the turnovers and keep pro­duction on the ground and in the air, then we can get a vic­tory," he explained. 

One out of two people who take the LSAT don't get into law school. To improve those odds, Practice with Kaplan now--so you can be a practicing lawyer later. 
Sign-up now for the February LSAT class! PHONE: 272-4135 
KAPLAN 
The answer to the test question. 
-
....----------------------------~--­
page 24 The Observer Wednesday, December 9,1992 
Braves begin courting Glavine 
-
The Atlanta Braves began negotiations Tuesday with ace pitcher Tom Glavine. 
ATLANTA (AP) -Atlanta "We've opened negotiations that if I go to free agency, it Braves officials have opened because we feel Tommy de­could mean a lot more money. negotiations on a long-term serves that for the years he has But I want to take the risk contract for ace left-hander given our organization," said away." Tom Glavine, who becomes eli­Schuerholz. "I said last year Glavine was the highest paid gible for free agency after next that I thought it was a year player on the Braves last year season. early (for a long-term deal). at $2.925 million. He is ex­
Now that year is gone." pected to end up with a One day after the Braves of­contract between the $4.25 fered free agent right-hander Glavine, the Cy Young Award million a season that Greg Greg Maddux a five-year, $31 winner in 1991, finished second Swindell got in a four-year deal million contract, Braves general to Maddux in the voting this with Houston last week and the manager John Schuerholz year. He is the only pitcher in $6 million a season that offered Glavine a contract baseball to win 20 games in Maddux is expected to worth $4.2 million a season each of the last two seasons. command. over four years with an option Glavine said he wants long­"It's not a situation where I for a fifth season, The Atlanta term security instead of a want to be the highest-paid Constitution reported in Tues­chance at free agency after next player or the highest-paid day's editions. season. pitcher," Glavine said. "I just 
Schuerholz and Glavine's "The Braves can tie me up want what is fair. Greg agent, Bob Woolf, met Monday now," he said. "If I go to free (Maddux) took a chance by not in Louisville, Ky., during base­agency, Atlanta would be high taking the money last season ball's winter meetings. Woolf on my list, but I would definitely and it paid off. He is in his free said he expected to complete a listen to other offers. And if I go agent year, so I know there will deal in the next few days. out and win 21 again, I realize be some difference." 
To All St. Mary's and Notre Dame Students, Faculty and Staff: 
!JJ(erry Chris/mas andJfappy Xem Year/ 

FINALS WEEK SPECIALS 
•Beat the Clock Tuesday 
from 5:00 p.m. , 7:30 p.m., Price of large 1 Topping pizza is time you call 
•Open Finals Week 11:00 a.m.--3:00a.m. (throughFriday,Dec.ts) 
r-------, r-------, r-------, r;--------'71 r-------,

I 1.-14" Large I I 4--14" Large I IB d t• k I 1Late Night Special1 I Lunch Special I I !Topping II 1~ . II rea SIC Sll 1.-14"Large II 1.-Sm.all2 I
-Pizza with ~tix ~pptng 1 1 1T~pping 1 1 Pizi~~hd~oft 11•1 Garlic Sauce11 1 1 
I and 2 soft dnnks I I Ptzzas I I •New Nacho Cheese Sauce I I Ptzza I I drink I I $10°0 I I $1995 I I $1OO +Tax I I $1095 •T~ I I $1Q95 I
+Tax 

1Add•ttona1Toppings.95~each ~ I 1Additiona1Toppings.95~each ~ I I ~ I IAddltionaiTopp•::::::·~ I 1Additiona1Toppings.95~each ~ 
I lhlAt Valtd With Any Other Coupon .J I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon .J I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon .J I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon .J I Not Valtd With Any Other Coupon .J
liiil-------,liill_______ .... _______ liiiil-------... ______ _ 
271~1177 
Fast • Hot • Perfect 
---r. ·_ ·_._I -~ .-,-:: ;· r r 2.'. •~-...-'1': 
Wednesday, December 9,1992 
Bonds, Giants finally agree on record-setting deal 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP)-Barry Bonds and the San Francisco Giants have a deal, at last. 
1\vo days after their deal was put on hold in embarrassing fashion, the Giants and Bonds today announced they had fi­nalized a six-year, $43.75 mil­lion contract. 
Bonds' pact is the richest in baseball history. Bonds was the most attractive free agent available, having recently won his second National League MVP award in three years with Pittsburgh. 
The 28-year-old Bonds hit .311 with 34 homers and 103 RBls last season. He also stole 39 bases and won another Gold Glove in left field. 
Along with his contract, Bonds got another big number. His godfather, Hall of Farner Willie Mays, has given permission for the Giants to take his No. 24 jersey out of retirement and allow Bonds to wear it. 
"To be allowed to wear it, it's more than I could hope for," said Bonds, who briefly choked up while announcing the deal. 
There has been talk  - not  
confirmed by the Giants ­ that  
Bonds'  father,  former  San  

Francisco star Bobby Bonds, would be named the team's hitting coach. That would likely happen if Giants coach Dusty Baker is promoted to manager, although the team does not plan to name its new manager for awhile. 
Bonds had been actively pur­sued by the New York Yankees. But last Saturday night, Bonds and the Giants announced a tentative agreement. It was ex­pected that the deal would be formally announced Sunday night, but after Bonds showed up for the ceremony, the Giants did not. 
The Observer 
The problem was that the Giants are in the process of be­ing sold, and the current owner, Bob Lurie, did not want to assume responsibility in case the sale was not approved. 
But Safeway Inc. chairman Peter Magowan, who would be managing general partner if the sale is approved, said a set­tlement was worked out to make sure Lurie will not have to pay Bonds, not matter what. 


RING IN '93 
AT 


It's eight night clubs in one! 
NEW YEAR'S CELEBRATION DECEMBER 31 6 P.M. , 2 A.M. 
Price: $25 in advance, $30 at the door Ticket includes entrance to all eight clubs, party favors/hats, midnight toast and complete dinner buffet ( 6 p.m. , 9 p.m.) 
Plus entertainment by 
The Stratoblasters in our Froggy Bottoms club and China Blue in Take 5 2019 N Lamar Call 214,720,0170 or 214,988,0581 
"Where Texas Plays at Night!" 
Located in the West End Historic District 
page 25 

-
LAFAYETTE 

"'>-_ 
SQUARE 
still has 
1 Aparttnents Available 
For Next School Year 
For More Info 
Call Matteo Enterprises 
232~8256 

page 26 The Observer Wednesday, December 9,1992 
-
Brooks 
continued from page 32 
poor record. "Thank you Mr. Faulk. That is all 
"Maxwell award winner Gino Torreta is the next Heisman candidate which the prosecu­tion wishes to call. 
"Being quarterback for the nation's number one team car­ries a large amount of publicity. Isn't that correct Mr. Torreta? Isn't it also correct that the publicity is what has made you the Heisman frontrunner dur­ing the last weeks? 

"If we look past your expo­sure, we don't see the nation's finest player, but rather an av­erage quarterback surrounded by top-flight players. Despite having the finest group of re­ceivers and a solid defensive line you rank a rather mediocre 19th in passing efficiency. 
"Your record as a starter is an amazing 26-1, including 11­0 this season. But isn't it your defense, not your performance, which deserves credit for such numbers? How difficult can it be to lead an offense which must only score twelve points to offset the eleven points your defense allows on average, per game? 
"In addition, isn't it true that past Heisman winners symbol­ized players who performed their best when facing their toughest challenges? In this category, you seem to fall a bit. When comparing the four big games Miami played this sea­son (Arizona, Penn State, Florida State, and Syracuse) to the seven matchups with sub­par competition, we find an in­teresting trend. Your comple­tion percentage dropped from .622 to .506, your average yards per completion fell from nine to five, and you threw seven interceptions to only two. 
"Thank you, Mr. Torreta. "As its final witness, the pros­ecution calls Reggie Brooks. 
"Out of nowhere you came to be one of the most feared backs in the nation. You averaged an amazing eight yards per carry, more than a yard better than the defendants, Mr. Faulk and Mr. Hearst. In fact, if you would have carried as many times as Mr. Faulk and maintained your average, you would have rushed for 2120 yards. 
"You rushed 19 times for 227 yards against USC's sixth­ranked rush defense, where as it took your competitor from SDSU 27 carries to gain 220 yards. 
"Finally, your finest perfor­mances of the year were against Penn State, Boston Col­lege, and the Trojans, all three top 25 teams. 
Thank you Mr. Brooks. 

Ladies and gentlemen I have tried to describe, using solid ev­idence, that the defendants, Mr. Faulk, Mr. Hearst, and Mr. Torreta either fail to meet the requirements of a Heisman Trophy winner or come up short when compared to my client. It is clear that my client is the worthy choice for the Heisman. 
The prosecution rests. 

-
t 
Wednesday, Jan. 6 7:30 Joyce ACC Center 
Tickets available at all ~Outlets, Joyce ACC Box Office, Kanna Records, Select L.S. Ayres Stores, Nightwinds and Hilltop Department Store 
Charge By Phone: 219-272-7979 
Produced By Sunshine Promotions 




Daytona Beach Spring Break '93 will feature spirited debates 

TM 

on subjects including the Miss Hawaiian I ropic® Beauty Pageant, body-building contests and a whole lot more. It'll be Darwin's theory of natural selection at its most entertaining along 
the 23 miles of Daytona Beach. For more information, call 
1-800-854-1234 for your free Spring Break Planning Kit. • --. 
Wednesday, December 9,1992 The Observer page 27 

Justice, Cozen shine off bench 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Editor 
Before the season starte-'d Irish coach John MacLeod stressed that his team would have to depend on a deep bench and three-point shooting to be competitive. 
Last night these things enabled the Irish put a scare into fourth-ranked Indiana. 
Lamarr Justice and Carl Cozen came off the bench to help Notre Dame overcome a 17 -point first-half deficit. 
Justice played a career-high 24 minutes at point guard and got the Irish offense into a steady rhythm. 
"We just had to relax and play ball," Justice said. 
After Ryan Hoover's 21-point performance against Evansville, it looked as if Justice might have trouble finding playing time. But the freshman point guard struggled tonight, opening the door for Justice. 
"I may have been a little out of control early, and it might have been a case of nerves," Hoover explained. "Tonight it just turned out that Lamarr fit in to the game. Against Evansville, I fit in better." 
"Just because I'm not starting doesn't mean I can't contribute," Justice 
r-"":""".......----~--~~-~~-----~----~-commented. "If everyoneHappy 21M Birthday on the 16th, contributes, we're going to be a 

. e '·
Jam} 


Love Family and Friends 
tough team to beat." 
Justice did more just that, as he did not miss a shot en route to a 12-point, six-assist performance. 
"It was Lamarr's best game at Notre Dame," MacLeod said. "He was able to break down the defense with his quick dribble. He seemed very comfortable on the floor, and he's going to improve." 
Another big factor off the bench was Cozen. The junior forward showed the shooting touch that has missing since his first game as a freshman when he hit four-of-five three 

• 
Extended hours 9am-9pm daily through January 3rd. Last entrance at 7:30pm. Call for holiday hours. 

• 
Don't miss your last chance to experience the splendor of the Golden Age of Russia. See Catherine's legacy of jewels, tapestries, paintings and religious icons. 

• 
Bring the kids to see Father Frost's Winter Wonderland at Catherine's Courtyard, Saturdays and Sundays from 10 am -4pm. 

• 
Order your tickets today for best dates and times. Ask about weekday evening discounts. 

• 
Presented by the Dallas Historical Society. Centennial Building, Fair Park. 


Call Dillard's at 1-800-654-9545 or (214) 565-4400 Now for Best Tickets. 
"""'"SPONSORS The Meadows Foundation OO)r 11Jalla$ J{orning ;N~ .6fE.IJ/J. 
_.,.,.... SPONSOA 1111 """"""' Fidelity InveshneniS Southwest Occidental Chemical Corporation AIAUNE SPONSOA ,.,,.,.~ .,,...., 
"'""SPONSORS Q n._f!o.m.t fiA ~ 11-IE~-:tPHus
UUNIVISIONZ3. Tha'i\hJthly 
HOmSPONSOA 

BENfF-'CT<l"S ARCO Foundation, Mrs. W.D. DeSanders/Lone Star CadiUac, HaiUhurton Company, Kimberly-Clark Corporation, Lennox tritemationallnc., Eugene McDennott Foundauon, The National Endowment for the Humanities, The Rosewood Co'l'oration, Southwestern BcU Foundation and Strasburger & Price. Additmnal 6nancial : the State Fair ofTexas. The Dalbs Histoncal mpari 1Jr funds from the Office of Cul!ur21 Affilirs, of Dallas 
pointers against Fordham. 
"I felt confident out there tonight," Cozen explained. "I've been building confidence since I had a talk with Coach MacLeod a month ago. He set me straight. I was thinking negatively and it was affecting my game." 
Last night Cozen hit three treys, scored 11 points and pulled down four rebounds. 
"We want Carl to shoot the ball," MacLeod said. "He is 
• 

getting into a rhythm now. He knows he is going to play and he is expecting to make his shots." 
But Cozen was not the only one connecting from downtown, as the Irish nailed 10 of 17 three-pointers, the last two being desperation misses. 
"Making threes really stings a defense," the Irish coach commented. "It will open up our inside game if we continue to shoot well." 
Cunningham, Kotite finally on the same page 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Ran­dall Cunningham and Rich Kotite seem to have finally found the same pages in the Philadelphia Eagles' playbook. 
After Cunningham's scintillat­ing passing and scrambling Sunday in a 28-17 victory over Minnesota, he said, "The deci­sions all came from Richie. He came out with a great game plan and we were able to exe­cute. 
"As long as everybody's working together and not wor­ried about being pressured, we play very well. Richie has al­lowed us to go out and do that." 
At Kotite's news conference 
Monday, the head coach said 
the playbook has remained the 
same all season, despite the of­
fense's up-and-down play. 
"I would say that the game 
plan was 98 percent what it's 
been all along," Kotite said. 
"But we executed. There wasn't 
anything different except a 
change-up on our play action 
passes." 
The difference, he said, was 
that Cunningham was confident 
in himself. 
"I think that (Cunningham) 
probably took hold of the game 
plan and did a lot of things with 
a lot of assertiveness." 
The coach said he told Cun­
ningham last week that there 
were times in the loss to San Francisco when the quarter­back should have run. 
Against the Vikings, there was no hesitation. Cunningham ran 12 times for 121 yards and two touchdowns. He also completed 16 of 23 passes for 164 yards. 
After the game, Cunningham said, "Richie came to me early in the week ... and said to make my three reads or whatever and then take off if they're not open and that's what I did. Also he gave me some nice bootlegs and things that I was able to work with, and on third downs I was able to move around in the pocket. .." 
While Cunningham said he felt that he was finally in sync with the coach, Kotite dis­agreed. 
Kotite said, "I never thought we were out of sync. But if he has more confidence that's all that matters." 
The Eagles (8-5), wrapped in a struggle for a wild-card play­off berth in the NFC, are 10­point favorites over the Sea­hawks (2-11) for Sunday's game in Seattle. 
"They have one of the top four defensive teams in the NFL," Kotite began. "They've had an amazing amount of injuries to receivers. They've had injuries to quarterbacks." 

page 28 The Observer Wednesday, December 9,1992 
Women's swim team domiates at National Catholics 
By HALEY SCOTT Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swim team returned victorious Monday from the National Catholic championship meet at the University of Rhode Island in Kingston, Rl. 
Notre Dame scored 940 points, beating second place Providence College by 376 points. In other words, the Irish dominated. 
"We were in control from the beginning. Actually, we were in control before the swimming events even started," senior co­captain Susan Bohdan said. "The divers put us way ahead." 
Liane Gallagher, a freshman from Mamaroneck, NY, dove her best performance of the season. Gallagher won both the one-and three-meter diving events. to give the Irish a head start on their victory. 
In the swimming events, the women competed in the morning preliminary heats to quailify for the final's session. The top 16 swimmers returned in the evening to compete in the consolation and championship heats. Points are scored in the evening session only. · 
The two senior co-captains left their mark on Notre Dame swimming as they competed in their last National Catholic championship meet. Bohdan 

George may return to starting lineup 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Less than 24 hounrafter leading the Indianapolis Colts to a 6-0 vic­tory over New England, Jack Trudeau was looking at the possibility of warming the bench again as a backup to Jeff George. 
George threw the ball Monday for the first time since fractur­ing a bone in his right hand Nov. 15. 
"We had Jeff throw today to see how it feels," Coach Ted Marchibroda said Monday. "He's going to see the doctor (today) and see what he says. We'll have to wait until (today) and Wednesday to make a de­cision." 
If George's fracture has healed enough to allow him to return, he'll be in the starting lineup against the New York Jets on Sunday. 
"We'll wait and see," said Ge­orge, who has missed six games this year with the fracture and

-

CALL NOW: 683-195 
Master Mini Warehouse US 31 at State line 2.5 miles 
Congratulations and Happy 22nd Birthday Rod 
You're #1 in our book! 
l.SlANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan Or Take Your Chances 

Love and thanks, Mom, Dad, Maura,
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 

Pop, Eileen, Katie 
(219) 272-4135 
& Gene 

won the 500 yard freestyle with a personal best time of 5:05.16. Also in the championship heat were sophomores Lorrei Horenkamp, Jenni Dahl, and Angie Roby, placing 4th, 5th, and 6th, respectively. 
Bohdan also placed the high­est for the Irish in the 200 yard freestyle with a third place fin­ish; followed by Horenkamp and Dah·l coming in 6th and 7th. 
In the mile, 1650 yards freestyle, Dahl placed first with a time of 17 minutes, 22.29 seconds. Bohdan and junior Kristen Heath placed third and fifth. 
Senior co-captain Tanya Williams was also outstanding. On the first day of competition, Williams won the 200 yard in­dividual medley with a time of 2:04.25, setting a new Provi­dence College pool record. In the 200 yard backstroke, Williams set a pool and a meet record, winning the event with a NCAA consideration time of 
1:58.80. And on the last day of the meet Williams placed first in the 100 yard backstroke (56.61). followed by classmate Kay Broderick and sophomore Cara Garvey. By winning this event, Williams became the first National Catholic competitor to win every individual event she has competed in during her four year collegiate career. 
a stretched ligament in his right thumb. "If the pain's not there and if the swelling doesn't occur and the doctor says it's OK togo ..." 
Marchibroda insisted George wouldn't return until "he's ready to play, totally ready to play. If he can practice Wednesday, I'll definitely go with him." 
George, who feels he may have rushed his earlier return, agreed that he wouldn't play unless his hand has completely recovered. 
"But if I'm able to come back, I'll be there whether it's next week, against Phoenix (Dec. 20) or the last week of the season. When you're on the sidelines and the team is going through some success like we are right 
CHRISTMAS BREAK INSIDE CAR STORAGE 
now, you want to be a part of it," Ge'orge said. 
On Sunday, Trudeau hit 23 of 35 passes for 209 yards while subbing for the third game for George. 
"Whether Jack goes to the outside or inside ... Jack does an extremely good job with the short passing game," Marchi­broda said. "I learned a lot about Jack in the last couple weeks. He's carried himself extremely well." 
Trudeau has hit 56 percent of his passes for 1,007 yards and one touchdown. He has been intercepted six times this sea­son. 
Trudeau said he knows his two-game winning streak won't mean much if George is healthy enough to play. 
... 

The Observer/Brian McDonough The Notre Dame women's swim team dominated their opposition at the National Catholic championships. 
The Irish sprinters did very well. In the 50 yard freestyle, freshman Rachel Thurston, Kelly Walsh, and Garvey placed first, second, and third, re­spectively. Thurston was the only top eight finalist in the 100 yard freestyle, placing fourth. 
In the butterfly events, freshman Joy Michnowicz was Notre Dame's top finisher, placing sixth in the 100 yard event, and third in the 200 yard event. Michnowicz also placed fifth in the 200 yard breastroke, behind first place Irish swimmer Jesslyn Peterson. Peterson, a freshman from Apopica, FL. also won the 400 · yard individual medley with a time that could possibly qualify won and set a pool and a meet her for the NCAA championship record in the 4x100 yard rued­meet in March. If so, Peterson ley relay. would join Williams as the only Not only were the Irish rec­Notre Dame swimmers to ognized for winning events in qualify for NCAA's during their the pool, but out of the pool as freshman year. well. Tanya Williams was 
named outstanding female 

Notre Dame also won four of swimmer of the meet, and the five relays at the meet. Liane Gallagher was named Peterson, Walsh, Thurston, and outstanding female diver. Also Mary Wendell won the 4x50 honored was Irish diving coach yard freestyle. Peterson, Adam Hirschfeld, as diving Thurston, Walsh, and Williams coach of the meet. placed first in the 4x100 yard Before the meet Notre Dame's freestyle relay. Peterson, head coach, Tim Welsh, said, Williams, Horenkamp, and Bo-"Championship meets are won hdan won the 4x200 yard in the evening session." freestyle relay. Garvey, Peter-That's exactly what the Irish son, Williams, and Thurston did. 

appy Birthday 

to our favorite walk-on, Sean Ryan! 
Good Luck! 
Love, Mom, D~d, Colleen, Pat, Kelly, Erin and Kevin 


~~ CRE-f.Yf \YAL.L
J;~ CHINESE AME'RICAN RESTAURANT & COCKTAIL LOUNGE 
Authentic Szechuan; Mandarin a Hunan Cuisine! 
UNDAY BUFFET BRUNCH 
Every Sunday 11:30 a.m.-3:00p.m. 
ALL YOU CAN EAT$895 ~:!~ $395 
Includes Soup, Salad Bar, Appettara, aDifferent emr.. &Desserts 
130 Dixie WayS., South Band 272 7376
(next to lfandlll'llnn) • 
DO YOU NEED HEALTH INSURANCE? 
e  Graduating?  
e  19 or older and  
maybe  no longer  
covered under  
your parent's  
policy?  

• Between jobs? 
e Need better coverage? 

Call Georgia Mead at Acardia Collegiate Benefits at 1-800-257-6821 or (317) 885-2059. CALL TODAY FOR LOW COST IMMEDIATE health insurance coverage! 
~rdia8, Acordia Collegiate • -_.,_.... Benefits 
Wednesday, December 9,1992 The Observer page 29 
Jackson gets owners attention 

LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) -The Rev. Jesse Jackson brought a congregation to its feet with his calls for more minority hirings in baseball. Team owners are sitting on their hands for now. 
Jackson got the owners' at­tention at baseball's winter meetings Monday by suggesting they'll face boycotts and challenges to their anti-trust exemption unless they open top-level jobs to minorities. 
"We're not talking about quotas. We're talking about op­portunities," Jackson said be­fore meeting five owners to discuss baseball's hiring prac­tices. "At this point, there is a quota: zero. It's an old quota, and there's no present plan to break it. 
"But we're not going to be satisfied with that quota any longer." 
Later, Jackson drew a loud, prolonged ovation at an inner­city church with his insistence that minorities shouldn't allow themselves to be shut out of top baseball jobs. 
"There are 28 presidents of clubs, zer.o blacks," he told the crowd of about 500 people. "General managers -28, zero black. Director of player per­sonnel -zero. Chief of scouting -zero. 
"Unless there's a plan to change that, when the stadium opens come opening day, the 
cess." on track ... to the power posi­number going into that stadium Schott didn't attend the ses-tions in baseball." 
Recycle I Lemieux leads balanced Penguins' attack 

Have a GRRREAT Birthday, 
MGD! 
Love, 
Brie, Julie, Laurel, Leener, Lisa, Meghan and Sarah 
PITTSBURGH (AP)-Mario Lemieux was one of three Pittsburgh players with a goal and two assists as the Penguins beat the Winnipeg Jets 5-2 on Tuesday night for their eighth win in 10 games. 
Lemieux increased his NHL­leading totals to 32 goals and 78 points as the Penguins upped their record to an NHL­best 20-7-3. Lemieux has had 
Now 
* * * * 41 Jlll&!MJlfl@!M ~Jl(]))!PJ&!MJm. 
SPECIAL CHRISTMAS SALE UNIQUE NOTRE DAME DESIGNS
~ 
THE GOLF SHOP AT NOTRE DAME 
DECEMBER 9, 10, 11 FROM 9:00 A.M. TO 4:00 P.M. lN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
PRICES REDUCED ON CLOSE-OUT MERCHANDISE 

BRING YOUR ID CARD FOR (3 SALE DAYS ONLY!) 
* * * * 

must be zero." 
Jackson's appearances brought baseball's latest racial controversy at the owners full­force. Cincinnati Reds owner Marge Schott started it with her admissions that she's used derogatory terms about blacks, Jews and other ethnic groups. 
While Jackson called for wholesale changes in hiring practices, owners and baseball officials ducked the Schott con­troversy and released a report showing minorities made only slight gains in front offices this year. 
Although roughly 17 percent of front-office employees are minorities -up 1 percent from last year -there are no black chief executives or general managers in the major leagues. Some teams still lag in hiring: the Reds have just one black in their 45-person front office. 
Only 2 percent of baseball's front-office -employees were minorities in 1987, when former Los Angeles Dodgers executive Al Campanis brought the matter to attention by say­ing blacks "lack the necessities" for decision-making roles. 
"The fact is, there has been progress," deputy commis­sioner Steve Greenberg said. "The bully pulpit has been used by Fay Vincent and other commissioners over the years with varying degrees of suc­sions Monday, and Reds officials couldn't say whether she'd make the two-hour drive from Cincinnati for today's meeting. 
The owners aren't likely to take any action against Schott during the meetings, which wrap up Wednesday. Greenberg said a special four-person committee set up to investigate Schott's statements doesn't have its report ready. 
"I think in the next week or so they'll be ready to give some kind of report to the executive council," Greenberg said. 
Jackson, head of the Rainbow Coalition, wants to meet with owners again to discuss his plans for an aggressive minor­ity-hiring program. He said the five owners he met Monday were cordial but offered no plan for correcting the prob­lems. 

"They have no plan of their own to get their house in order," Jackson said. "We shall wait to see how they handle Marge, who has embarrassed them, and how they handle themselves." 
Jackson said the issue isn't Schott's offensive statements as much as the teams' hiring system. 
"They have until the spring to put forth a plan," Jackson said. "Each team should have a pipeline plan where people are 
.. 

at least two points in 25 of his 29 games this season. 
Ron Francis and Jaromir Jagr also had a goal and two assists each as the Penguins raised their home record to 11-1-2. Darrin Shannon and Teemu Selanne scored for Winnipeg. 
Blackhawks 3 Red Wings 2 
Detroit lost its fourth straight at home for the first time in three years as Michel Goulet's third-period goal lifted Chicago over the Red Wings. 
Goulet's goal at 12:05 of the third period snapped a 2-2 tie. The Red Wings had a man ad­vantage for the final three minutes of the game, after Chicago's Stephane Matteau received a major and game misconduct for checking Keith Primeau from behind, but got only one shot. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

-
.... 
Welcome Home & Happy Birthday Nora 
The Observer Wednesday, December 9,1992 
Irish hockey hopes luck improves 

By BRYAN CONNOLLY 

Sports Writer 
A rested Notre Dame hockey team will try its luck on the road this weekend with back­to-hack away games against Ohio State and Bowling Green. 
The Irish are still last in the CCHA with a 1-10-1 league record (1-11-1 overall) and are hoping to begin their turn­around by gaining four points against these conference foes. 
Ohio State, who the Irish meet Friday night at the OSU Ice Rink, are currently ranked ninth in the CCHA with a 3-6-1 record (4-8-1 overall). The Buckeyes traded victories last weekend with the seventh place Bulldogs of Ferris State, losing 6-3 on Friday night and coming back 4-0 on Saturday. 
"They play extremely well at times, and average at other times," said Notre Dame head coach Ric Schafer. "The same could be said of the Irish." 
OSU is known as a very ag­gressive team which tends to find itself receiving too many unnecessary penalties. How­ever, it has been able to rely on its outstanding penalty killing unit, which has negated eighty five percent of its opponent's power plays this year. 
"We'll need to take advantage of whatever power play oppor­tunities we have," Schafer said. 
Bowling Green, which is one point ahead of Ohio State in the 
• CCHA, has a 4-8-0 league record (7-9-0 overall). Coming off a split last weekend with 

The Observer/John Bingham Jamie Morshead maneuvers against Illinois-Chicago. The Irish hockey team will meet Ohio State and Bowling Green this weekend. 
league leading Miami, the Fal­cons have been playing very strongly since Thanksgiving break. 
With a 14-12-2lead in the overall series, the Falcons could quite possibly overtake Kent and Ferris State for sole position of sixth place in the league if they can manage vic­tories over Notre Dame this weekend. 
The Irish, however, have dif­ferent plans. By earning four points this weekend they too could jump two notches in the league standings and leave behind the cellar which they have been in locked all season. 
"We want to turn the corner and win some games," said al­ternate captain Curtis Janicke, whose fifteen points put him second and twelfth on the Notre Dame and CCHA scoring charts, respectively. 
Following this weekend's competitions, the Irish are off until the twenty ninth of De­cember when they travel to Denver for a two game tour­nament with Air Force, Army, and Denver, which is currently ranked seventh in the nation. They will open their end of the tourney against Air Force. 
Notre Dame will then travel to Mankato State in Minnesota before returning to the JACC for two more games against Ohio State on the eighth and ninth of January. 
The seven game swing is going to be a critical part of the Irish season. "These next seven games are very important to this hockey team," said Schafer. 
Injuries plague Cincinnati defense 
Have a

CINCINNATI (AP) -The The most critical need is at guys could go on injured re­
linebacker. The only healthy serve. We're not sure what the
Bengals' defense, already a sore spot, is black and blue for player at the position is Eric answers are." sure after being thrashed Sun­Shaw, a rookie who saw his first 
Rockin'

The Bengals have one
day in Cleveland. Eight players extended action of the year linebacker, Brian Townsend, on
were hurt badly enough in the Sunday. their developmental squad.
37-21 loss to the Browns to be listed as "questionable" for The Bengals fimshed the game Other than that, they would 
Birthday,

with backups Shaw, Kirk and have to go outside the organi­
Sunday's game in San Diego. "The big question is whether Gordon at linebacker. zation. we'll have enough people to line "We're going to have to make "There are some guys out 
Ann!

there," Shula said. "We're
up on defense Sunday," coach some adjustments, obviously, Dave Shula said Monday. and get some people ready to currently scouring the devel­The injury list includes play," Shula said. "That could opmental squads of other linebackers James Francis possibl uy or two teams." 
love,

(knee), Gary Reasons (ribs), Alex Gordon (shoulder) and 
Claire &gang

No Baby Pictures 
Randy Kirk (lower leg contu­sion); tackle Roosevelt Nix (knee); cornerback Rob Jones (shoulder); and safeties Fer­
No Childish Sayings 
nandus Vinson (ankle) and David Fulcher (Achilles tendon). None is definitely out. 
You're a Man Now 
"Whether they'll be able to play this week or later in the season, we'll find out later in 
Happy 21st 
the week," Shula said. "I don't know all the answers. All the tests have been performed. 
Love, 

A WEEKEND
We'll know a lot more by this 
RETREAT EXPERIENCE
time tomorrow (Tuesday)." 

Dad, Mom & Krista 
GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACUL TV & STAFF 
An opportunity, In dialogue with others, to deepen your understand· 
ing o1 yourself, your values, your relationship with Christ, your
1993-1994 ASSISTANT RECTOR APPLICATIONS 
experience of Christian community and service. 
Are Now Available 
RETREAT 

February 5-7, 1993 
DATES: 

OFFICE OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 
FORMS 

December 7-11
315 Hain Building 
AVAILABLE: 
SIGN UP 

December 11 
DEADLINE: 

CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office
Completed Applications.Due FEBRUARY 12, 1993 
103 Hesburgh Library 239-7800 

(?MPUS

COST: $25.00 
MINISTRY 


Today 
Wednesday, December 9, 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S ••page 31 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
1)EqR SqN tCI' ~h'( iS YoUR opt;Rqt-ioN LocqtEc\ Qt-t-1-\E Nol(t-1-\ PoLE? 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Hosp. vehicles 
5 Stinging ant 
1 o Slopes transport 
14 De-, actor 
from N.Y. C. 15 Growing out 16 Millo specialty 17 Opening action 
removing tension 19 Schism 20 Lady Chatterley's creator 
21-Sunday (fifth after Easter) 
23"-aSong Go .. ." 24 "R.U.R." playwright 
25 Mosshorn 27 "Plants ·-life 
...":Blake 30Winged 31 A Caucasian, to 
Hawaiians 32 Freudian topic 33 Forming crusts 34 French 
legislature 35 Maintain 36 Suffix with opal 37 Slue 38 Feel sympathy 39 Called a poker 
bet 41 Great care 42 Left Bank 
chapeau 43 Unite 44 Noted dieters 

You WqN-\-to 'SEt 
iMPR~Ssioi-\"DL£ 
46 Hot Italian sauce 50 "Ebony-," 1961 song 
51 This may decide a Seles match 
53 Part of Q.E.F. 54 Caesar's early 
post 55 Antler part 56 Puttering 57 Whittled 58 He lived 905 
years 

DOWN 
1 Deep blue 2 Ala. product 3 Steep 4 Temperance 5 Less obtuse 6 Make into law 7 Charles or 
Victoria 
a Torrid time in Tours 9 Mother Goose's creator 
10 Butt 

11 Wins one, loses one 12 Solecist' s word 
~~-::+~'-loooo -=+'-+'-+-'--ioiiio -:+.:-+7-t:':i 13 Interest measurement 18 D. S. Freeman subject -:+.:-:+.::+.::-t:-1 22 Baritone Alan 
a1 
BILL WATIERSON 

l'tvl Gu~SSiNG C.\-\EC\1' Elf tJ\i Plfl..~ \5 T() P'JT \-\11'11 lqboR, LoW!=R ENViRoN\-fi~Nt<~L Ot--\ 1\-\£ DU£1'15\V£ s-hNci<~RdS, qNc\ to:y, BREqks. 
Bt.rDRE \-IE C.ON')II)ER'S 1-\0W GOO\> I'~£ B££N..

ls +1-\i') Rt:CILL'( t\-\1:. E)(q~PLE 
foR U) Kid')? 

"In this dramatic turn of events, testimony against Mr. Pumpkineater is about to be given by his sister, Jeannie Jeannie Eatszucchini." 
I 

Look what's NEW at DOMINO'S 
NEW G~fh~S~~Ve!rE FREE DOMHiif(;~Nt~Nl\cflii!g~t~!~!£~DO NEW ~l~!XJot~~i{?r~M FREE 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~::+:-~...... .....,. 1-7+.;-;.t::'+=-~::+.:±=+=-~=+.=~+:-+:-:-! 
LECTURES  
Wednesda~, ......· 8 p.m. "The Proper Integration of Development and Evolution;" Stephen Jay Gould. Hesburgh Auditorium. Open to the public. Free Admission. Thursday 4 p.m. "The Collapse of the U.S.S.R. and the Future of Strategic Stability," Sergei Rogov, deputy director, Institute of the U.S.A. and Canada Studies Russian Academy of Sciences. Hesburgh Auditorium. ... ::••::::.:t/:m:k::·  

26 Have a rest period 
27 Papal cape 
28 Curved moldings 
29 President who was christened Leslie King 
30 Galatea's beloved 
31 "-justas you've a mind to ...": Kipling 
34 Evade 37 Procacious 45 Firebug, for 38 Jazzy 

short 

nobleman? 46 "My Life" author 40 Ebullient 47 Consanguine­41 Made ous 
contented 48 River in Italy sounds 
49 Father of 43Apologue Ant eros 44 Transude 52 Greek peak 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
ONIGHT 
Call Now 
NO 271 ...0300 2 8 9 ...QQ3 3 
SMC 
MENu······· .\. ··.. ·:. 
Notre Dame 
Cantonese Barbecue Ribs Gyros Lemon Pepper Catfish 

Valid at participating stores only. Nor valid with any other offer. Customer pays sales tax where ap~licable. Delivery areas limited to ensure-safe driving. Our drivers carry less rhan $ZO. Our drivers are not 
penalized for late deliveries. © 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
::::::1 Last Chance to Celebrate in 1992. 
...1 
Christmas Specials 
9~2 
Saint Mary's 
Carved Turkey Carved Prime Rib Veg. Stir Fry w/Rice 
THE 
zc
n
-s:: ~~ 
Oz 
r-JJ_ c 
m 


Sports 
page 32 Wednesday, December 9,1992 
JENNY 

Indiana overcomes fiesty Irish, 75-70 
MARTEN 

By RICH KURZ MacLeod said, "but those things Associate Sports Editor happen. I wish I'd had a gun. I would've dropped him right there," 
On Top of Sports 

After nearly 39 minutes of the coach joked. 1-----------------1 basketball, the fifth-ranked Indiana Irish forward Carl Cozen was the Hoosiers needed to steal a little bit of man responsible for guarding Nover.
Thoughts from the 
the luck of the Irish to escape the "I saw the shot clock running down Joyce ACC with a win over the fiesty and then he got the ball," said
stands: Section 15, 
Irish. Cozen. "I put both hands in his face. With a minute left to play, Notre lie bobbled the ball going up with it, 
Row 14 

Dame had the ball down just three then I turned around and saw the 
Well, I was going to write a cheesy points, 73-70 in their frontcourt. A ball hit nothing but net and I Christmas column about "The night Lamarr Justice pass in front of the couldn't believe it. I don't feel I could before the bowl game," but somehow it Irish bench was caught by Malik have done any more." seems trivial in comparison to last Russell, who appeared to be slapped After the first 10 minutes of the night's 7 5-70 hoops thriller. on the wrist by Hoosier guard. The game, the thought that the Irish 
ball went out of bounds, and the would be in a position to win the 
Luckily, I wasn't on press row for the 
referee awarded the ball to Indiana game at the end would have seemed 
game. Rather, I was happily cheering 
in front of irate Notre Dame coach ludicrous.
and waving my free "Go Irish" towel in 
John MacLeod. Notre Dame point guard Ryan
section 15-row 14. From that 
But Notre Dame wasn't done quite Hoover canned a three-pointer 33
perspective, I made several ob­
yet. The Hoosiers tried to kill some seconds into the game to give the
servations. 

First, John MacLeod is the man. time off the clock, but when it came Irish a 3-0 lead, but then the time for them to get a shot off, the Hoosiers went to work. 
Last night, he proved why he belongs Irish defense stiffened. Indiana The Hoosiers outscored Notre among the elite in the college coaching center Matt Nover threw up a Dame 23-5 over the next nine ranks. MacLeod is a teacher. He had desperation shot from just inside the minutes, including a string of 12 the rare opportunity of coming into this three-point line, barely beating the straight points after Hoover's shot. 
season with only one returning starter. Hoosier center Matt Nover had the
45-second clock. 
Not really a coach's dream, but it has 
The ball went through the basket hot hand early, scoring eight of the 
given MacLeod a chance to mold the 
with just 10 clicks left on the game first 18 points for Indiana. 
entire unit. 

clock, leaving the Irish with a five­"The way it was going in the first point deficit. A couple of last-second half, it looked like we were going to
I think most Irish fans would admit that their hopes for this year's attempts wouldn't go, and Indiana get blown out of our own building," Notre Dame's Monty Williams shoots over Indiana's escaped with a 75-70 victory. 
basketball team weren't very high at MacLeod said. Alan Henderson. Williams was whistled for a charge"Nover's shot was ill-timed for us,"
the start of the season. see HOOPS/page 21 on the play.Things have changed. 
Women's hoops 
After barely losing to the Hoosiers,
·­
Hoping for the Heisman 
the Irish are 2-1 and turning the heads 
looking for a
of the students, the press and others. The defense is tough and the offense can light it up. Using a nine-man confidence boost 
Is Brooks' case strong enough? 
rotation, the Irish can field five solid 
Observer Staff Report 
players on the floor at all times. Students don't wince like they did last 
The Notre Dame women's 
year when the starters hit the bench basketball team needs a confi­
for some rest. 

dence boost. After dropping their first two 
Even the much-maligned Ross 
games of the season, including a 
Brothers are gaining respect. Up in 
33-point loss to No. 17 Purdue, the section 15, they were getting booed in Irish look to turn things around the first half, but after some tough sec­today at Illinois-Chicago.
ond half play Joe and Jon were hearing "We have a confidence problem
cheers. "Yeah Ross" was the most 
as it is, and to get beat that bad frequently heard. 
(74-41 against Purdue) doesn't 
So what does all this mean? 
help anything," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
1) John MacLeod needs his own Tonight's game will be the first cheer. Why should Lou be the only meeting between the Irish and the coach to have one? Plus, that lame Flames since the 1987-88 season,
Lone Ranger cheer is getting old. 
when the Irish won 79-50. 
(Sorry, Wagz) If anyone has any ideas Overall, Notre Dame leads the 
The Observer/Macy Hueckel 
on a Mac cheer, let the Observer know. 
series 6-2. 

Reggie Brooks made his case for the Heisman Trop,l1y on the field this season.
But it's just the first in a series 2) The yellow towels are cool. 
of tough games awaiting the Irish. 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Saturday, they return home to COMMENTARY
Sports Writer 

3) We got a glimpse of what the 
face Michigan, before travelling to ACC.
Athletic department meant by "The 
Loyola (MD) next Friday. 
All rise. The Heisman court is now in "It is also true that that the majority ofThunderdome" last year. Fan support During the break they will have your SEC record 21 touchdowns, your main
is growing and the JACC is rocking. session.
six games, including a home date defense for being placed ahead of my client
Kudos to whoever made the decision to "Ladies and gentlemen of the jury
with No. 13 Georgia on December 
lower student ticket prices and put all (Heisman voters), what the defense will for the Heisman, came against the likes of
21. Georgetown will also visit the 
the students behind the basket. attempt to prove is that Mr. Faulk, (San Cal-State Fullerton, Kentucky, Georgia­
Joyce Center, before the Irish hit the road to take on LaSalle, Diego State running back Marshall) Mr. Southern, and Vanderbilt. 
4) Something to ponder: the only Tennessee, Dayton and Xavier Hearst, (Georgia running back Garrison) and "Thank you, Mr. Hearst. You may step player the Irish lose next year is Matt down.
before the second semester Mr. Toretta (Miami quarterback Gino) are 
Adamson. Everyone else will be back. 
begins. worthier candidates for the Heisman Trophy "The prosecution calls as its second than my client Mr. Reggie Brooks (Notre witness, Western Athletic Conference MVP 5) The Irish basketball team can play 
Junior guard Sherri Orloski has Dame running back). and the nations leading rusher Marshall
with the big boys. 

been the team's leading scorer in 
"Although they are all fine football Faulk. 
the early part of the season. Her players, I will show how each pales in "Mr. Faulk aren't you, like Mr. Hearst,6) The Upset is coming. 
15 points led the team in a 66-62 comparison to my client and how, on De­guilty of running up big numbers against the loss to Marquette, and she had a cember 12 at the Downtown Athletic Club, weakest of competition, such as your 300­
...and finally, Merry Christmas Notre team-leading 10 points against Dame-You've got a basketball team. Purdue. my client should be awarded the Heisman. plus yard performance against Hawaii? "As my first witness, the prosecution calls "Also, you are the only weapon on the
While Orloski will be a key to 'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ the team's success, the Irish have to the stand the Southeastern Conference's SDSU offense, a fact which allows you to 
to overcome some ball handling leading rusher and Doak Walker award carry the ball 43 times, as you did against
INSIDE SPORTS 

problems in the backcourt if they winner Garrison Hearst. the Rainbows. Couldn't your rushing title be hope to be successful. "Mr. Hearst, you have compiled some fine attributed to the fact that you averaged 29 Turnovers have hurt the Irish in numbers over the course of the year, 1547 carries per game? their opening two games, as they yards rushing on 228 attempts and a 6.8 "Lastly, you play for a team than finished have had trouble handling the 
yard-per carry average. But isn't it true that 5-5-1 and will not be playing in a bowl. The opponents' pressure defense. your strongest outings came against the last Heisman winner who's team failed to ,,, ., ,...,, .,..,, "I'm real concerned about our 
weakest competition? For example, examine make a bowl was Barry Sanders for your 167 yards on 31 carries against a 5-6 Oklahoma State in 1988. But the Cowboy's Georgia Tech team that allowed 26 points a absence was due to NCAA probation, not a 
· · < ••' ••• ,•• ,., ·• have the athletes to simulate 
game and ranked fifth in the defensive-weak 
111111111111111''·I'•·I:•• game pressure during practice." see BROOKS/page 26 








