
VOL. XXIV NO. 95 FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 14, 1992 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Moses at Night 
This photowaph of the Moses statue outside of the library appears intimidating and ominous. Luckily, the statue IS not portentous of the weather for this weekend's JPW events. Forecasts predict temperatures in the 40s with a possibility for rain. 
By KERRY COLLIGAN 
News Writer 
"A cure for AIDS and cancer is revealed in the Dead Sea Scrolls," one tabloid headline reads. Others boast such claims as, "UFO sightings de­tailed in Dead Sea Scrolls," and various insights into the life of Elvis. Why are these scrolls re­ceiving so much attention? 
Thursday evening Professors Eugene Ulrich and James Van­derKam, both of the Notre Dame theology department, justified the attention these scrolls receive. · 
Ulrich, together with John Strugnell and Imile Peuch, is one of the senior editors of the scrolls and works primarily on biblical texts, while VanderKam is currently working with a manuscript known as the Book of Jubilees. 
Ulrich and VanderKam re­lated the following information about the Dead Sea Scrolls: 
Believed to be written by Essenes living northwest of the Dead Sea between 150 B.C. and 70 A.D., the Dead Sea Scrolls 

James VanderKam 
were located in Qumran thir­teen miles east of Jerusalem. In 194 7, the frrst cave was dis­covered by a young man searching for animals lost from his herd. 
By 1956, the remaining eleven caves had been found. These, however, were not found easily, for approximately 275 other caves were searched as well. Today, the scrolls are kept in the Palestine Archaeological Museum between glass plates. 
One question arises regarding the location of the scrolls: "Why would anyone want to go there?" The scrolls are located in caves amongst steep cliffs, some of which drop three hun­dred feet. 
According to Ulrich and Van­derKam, there is speculation that the writers of the Dead Sea Scrolls were forced out of Jerusalem by the Maccabees. A passage from Isaiah, Chapter 40, states another possible rea­son for their location: "They shall separate from the habita­tion of ungodly men and shall go into the wilderness to pre­pare the way of Him." A simi­lar explanation also appears in a scroll known as the "Manual of Discipline." 
Among the manuscripts found, there are primarily two types, those of biblical text, and those of non-biblical text. Ap­proximately 200 manuscripts contain biblical text. All of these hold references to the Hebrew Bible and, to dispel a myth, none of them contain any evidence of another religion, in­cluding Christianity. 
The only complete manuscript is the text of Isaiah, which is dated one thousand years ear-
see SCROLLS/ page 4 
Californians beef up flood defenses 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Home­owners and emergency crews battered by this week's killer floods, among the worst of the century, beefed up their de­fenses Thursday as a big new Pacific storm loomed, drawing energy and moisture from the tropics. 
The storms that hit Southern California beginning Sunday have dumped more than a foot of rain in some areas, killed at least seven people and swamped homes, businesses and streets and highways. 
Four people were missing. Preliminary damage estimates in Los Angeles County alone topped $7.6 million. 
The region got a chance to catch up a little Thursday dur­ing spells of sunshine as show­ery remnants of the latest storm front rolled through the Los Angeles area with thunder and lightning. 
"We're getting ready for the next big push," said Bob Collis, spokesman for the Los Angeles Fire Department. 
"We've just ordered another 10,000 sandbags," said Malibu frre Capt. Virgil Lockhart. 
The Los Angeles Unified School District, the nation's second largest school district, canceled Friday classes for nearly 600,000 students. The district called it "a prudent 
see STORM/ page 4 
SMC student officer candidates to debate 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 
Candidates for Saint Mary's student body officers are preparing for Monday's student body election debate, according to Elections Commissioner Lori Marucut. 
The elections will be held Thursday, Feb. 20. 
Three tickets with varied platforms are contending for the positions of student body president, vice president of academic affairs, and vice president of student activities, Marucut said. 
"The platforms they're run­ning on are really broad," she said. 
The candidates for student body president, vice president of academic affairs, and vice president of student activities are, respectively: 
•Christina Carrara, Mary Beth Wilkinson, and Julie Mc­Cormick; 
•Katie 
Damm, April Barret, Jonna Kwiatkowski; and 

•Colleen 
Rhattigan, Anne Grant, and Martha Marvols. 


Maracut said that the Carrara ticket would like to work on improving the visibility of student government, continuing the alumnae speaker series, and coordinating the campus clubs. 
The Damm ticket plans to work on improving the way the SMC computer laboratory is run, improving the availability of women's studies courses, and creating a flexible meal plan, Maracut said. 
The Rhattigan ticket wants to work toward campus improve­ment, increased serVice oppor­tunities with South Bend, and more study days before final exams, Maracut said. 
The debate is scheduled for Monday, Feb. 17, at 7 p.m. in Haggar Parlor. 
Junior Parents' Weekenal Schedule of Events 
Friday 1 to 7 p.m. Hospitality Room for parents and students, Dooley Room, first floor of LaFortune. 
1 to 7 p.m. Classic NO films will be shown in the maiA T.V. lounge of LaFortune, including "Knute Rockne: An All­American." 
9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Bon Voyage Gala. The ope11ing event of JPW, including live entertainment, dancing and a cash bar. North and South Domes of the J.A.C.C. · 
Saturday 
9:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. Collegiate workshops for each of the four colleges. 1 & 2:30 p.m. Shenanigans, NO's singing and dancing ensemble,perform in Snite Annenberg_Auditorium. 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. Office of Minority Student Affairs open 
house, 210 LaFortune. 2:30p.m. NO Jazz Band perfoTmance, Washington Hall. 
2:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. R.O.T.C. receptions in the Pasquerilla Center. 
3 p.m. to 5 p.m. NO Alumni Association and Student Alumni Relation Group reception in the West Wing of the Soudl Dining Han. 
5:30 p.m. University President Father Edward Malloy wilt preside over Mass in 1'-South Dome of th& J.A.C.C. 
7 p.m. to 1tJun, The Captain's Dinner in the Nonh Dome of the J.A..c.oo: 
Sunday 
8:30 
8.m. tO 12 IU!IL·J;AF,M~Rll . , North Doma of the J.A.C.C. 
' 
Friday, February 14,1992 
page2 The Observer 
POR!CAIT: 
Cloudy and cool today with highs 
around 40. Staurday highs in 
mid-40s with 50 
percent chance of 
lfSIDE COLUMN 
JPW is special occasion for juniors, parents 
Somewhere in Dillon------­

Hall, they're vacuuming 
for the first time all year. 
Posters of scantily-clad 
beach beauties and empty 
bottles of Jim Beam find 
new homes under the .! 
.f;./
bunks. The confirmation 
gift Bible is dust-free and Monica Yant 
displayed prominently. News Editor 
In places like Knott Hall, ------­they're practicing"'the speech." For some it's 'I'm changing my major from accounting to anthropology and I'm going to join the Peace Corps after graduation." For others it's the unavoidable, "Mom and Dad, this is Mike.. .my fiance." 
And within the walls of Zahm Hall, there's a Clash of the Titans ensuing over who sits where for which dinner and which brunch and why so-and-so's girlfriend is a part of the group at all. 
For the over 1,800 members of the Class of 1993, it's time for good behavior and lasting impressions. Junior Parents' Weekend (JPW) is upon us. 
For two years, the weekend was viewed with disdain. Freshmen and sophomores planned the perfect roadtrip, knowing fully that social activity on campus is at a standstill during JPW. 
But we're older now. Some of us are even wiser, and there are a few of us who call ourselves adults. JPW has come to mean something all together different. 
At the least, JPW presents us all with a challenge: to spend 72 hours with our parental units and leave on speaking terms. It will be a test of the maturity we've done nothing but brag about for the last two years, a test that we can either pass or fail. 
For most, though, JPW promises more.. 
Many parents will be visiting for the first time, eager to place faces with names and to discover firsthand what makes this place so special. 
JPW holds an extra-special meaning for alumni parents, who may find the weekend a mini-reunion. And for students whose parents visit often, the weekend should be pressure­free. 
The idea of a activity-packed weekend with our parents may seem ludicrous to some who view JPW as pretentious and trying on the nerves. 
But the simple truth remains that at its most basic function, the weekend affords students a chance to thank their parents for the opportunity to come to Notre Dame. From a son's conversation with his mother over dinner to a father-daughter dance, juniors have an entire weekend to applaud their parents for a job well done. 
As we approach graduation and moving away from home, many of us realize that the chance to spend quality time as a family is becoming more rare. Not that we will no longer appreciate our parents, but rather that we will soon be beyond the age when the appreciation can be expressed so ap­propriately. 
JPW, for all its pomp and circumstance, offers us this chance. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Friday's taft 
Production Etc.
Peggy Crooks Shonda Wilson Bryan Nowicki Cristina Ortiz 
News 
Gerrie Hamilton Peter Loftus 
Systems
Steve Zavestowski Harry Zembillas 
Spons Graphics
JimVogl Brendan Regan 
Lab Tech Macy Hueckel 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fnday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member ol the Associated Press. Ail reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD
'WHR8if wants lift of death threat 
L -On the eve of entering his fourth year in hiding, author Salman Rushdie on Thursday renewed his call for the British government to pressure Iran to lift the death sentence that drove him underground. Iran's spiritual leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini called on Feb. 14, 1989, for devout Muslims to kill Rushdie for allegedly blaspheming Islam in his book "The Satanic Verses." Although Khomeini died less than four months later, the threat of assassination has kept Rushdie in hiding except for occasional public appearances. Rushdie, an Indian-born naturalized Briton, was raised a Muslim, then fell away from the religion. He declared a renewal of his faith on Dec. 24, 1990. 
NEW VOR Defense lawyers at John Gotti's mob trial opened their case Thursday with a combative attack against the government's star witness, labeling Salvatore "Sammy Bull" Gravano a "snake turned into a butterfly." Gravano, a former friend and co-defendant of the reputed Mafia boss, "is a little man John Gottl full of evil, connivance, manipulation, vanity, who has tried to clear his slate by admitting to 19 murders," said 

OF INTEREST 
• 
Sophomore Greg Goger of Morrissey Hall dis­covered Knott Hall's medallion between the slats of a bench outside of the esc late Wednesday night, according to Sara Skalicky, organizer of the event. For those inter­ested, the last clue was: "OK, Domers, This is it. Perhaps you should try a place to sit. Like a leprechaun guards his pot o' gold hopefully you have found our Medallion to hold." 

• 
Shenanigans JPW Concens will be presented Saturday at 1 and 2:30 p.m. at the Snite Museum of Art. No admission charge. Everyone welcome. · 


MARKET UPDATE 

rain. TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  
Atlanta  50  
Bangkok  91  
Boston  27  
Brisbane  64  
Caracas  84  
Chicago  34  
Eugene  59  
Flagstaff  35  
Helena  45  
Hong Kong  57  
Istanbul  48  
Juneau  38  
Knoxville  55  
London  50  
Los Angeles  65  
Nairobi  77  
N-York  34  
Nonh Plane  58  
PariS  50  
Manila  91  
South Bend  32  
Tallahassee  71  
Washington, D.C.  33  
Yuma  70  

::: 
j~: L ~;~ 
36 ;;; 
77 17 
72 
64 
27 43 32 22 
52 
37 26 42 43 
52 
52 
19 
20 
45 70 
24 
38 
24 
59 
defense attorney Albert Krieger. Gravano, Gotti's former right-hand man and allegedly a top lieutenant in the Gambino organized-crime family, was arrested with Gotti and co-defendant Frank Locascio. After about 10 months in jail, he contacted the FBI and agreed to cooperate in the Gotti case, prosecutors said. 
Walrus jv~[y traded for drygs 
INDIANA 
Fire kills one, injures others 
NEW ALBANY, Ind. -One woman was killed Thursday and six people were hospitalized with serious injuries after a building in a low-income housing complex caught fire, authorities said. Killed in the 9:50 a.m. blaze was Ruby Croninger of Hardinsburg, Ind., said Floyd County Coroner Becky Davis-Balmer. Three children, including a 2-month-old girl, remained in critical condition Thursday night at Kosair Children's Hospital in Louisville, Ky., hospital officials said. The cause of the blaze at the publicly owned housing development was being withheld until investigators could interview more victims. 
• 
Attention juniors involved with the Center for Social Concerns: You are invited to stop by the Center with your parents. We are hosting an Open House on Saturday from 2:30 until 4:30 pm. At 3:30 we will show a ten minute video and hear from M.J. Vachon relating her volunteer experiences. Have a wonderful weekend with your parents. 

• 
Knights of the lmmaculatta will be having a meeting on Sunday, Feb. 16 at 5:30 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. Please attend if interested. 


ON TIIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1929: The St. Valentine's Day Massacre took place in a Chicago garage as seven rivals of AI Capone's gang were gunned down. 

• 
In 1876: Inventors Alexander Graham Bell and Elisha Gray applied separately for patents related to the telephone. ~The U.S. Supreme Court eventually ruled Bell the rightful 

rnventor.) 

• 
In 1894: Comedian Jack Benny was born Benjamin Kubelsky in Waukegan, Ill. 

• 
In 1989: Iran's Ayatollah Khomeini called on Muslims to kill Salman Rushdie author of the novel "The Satanic Verses," 


condemned as blasphemous throughout the Islamic world. 
The Observer
Friday, February 14, 1992 
Important art works to be displayed at Snite 
Special to The Observer 
One hundred art works on paper, including medieval manuscript pages and renais­sance drawings from the na­tionally recognized collection of Notre Dame's Snite Museum of Art, will go on display Sunday, Feb. 16, and continue through Sunday, March 29, in the mu­seum's O'Shaughnessy Gallery West. 
The exhibition, "Master Drawings from the Permanent Collection," marks the fii"st time many of the 100 works will be on public view. Chief curator Stephen Spiro and assistant Mary Fisk capitalized on the comprehensive nature of the museum's collection by in­cluding works of various peri­ods, styles and nationalities. 
Among the earlier works are fourteenth-century manuscript pages and drawings by sixteenth-and seventeenth­century masters Romano, 
lll<t ~ 
'PANCAKE t t HOUSE )tTCllllibj Rl6~ t 
LUNCH SPECIAL Mon.-Fri. 
FREE French Fries 
With Any Sandwich Order 
After 11:00 A.M. Please 
Open 7 Days A Week 
At6:30 A.M. 
* 
~ 
*
* 
* 
~ 
* ~ 
* *
* 
* 
*
* 
* * 
* 
* 
*
* 
~ 
* 
Carracci and Coypel. Recently acquired drawings include works by the notable eighteenth-century English artists Flaxman and Romney. 
Two rare nineteenth-century sketchbooks will be on view with studies by Degas and Delacroix. Artistic innovations of the twentieth century includ­ing cubism and abstract ex­pressionism, are represented in works by Davis, Matulka, Kline and Smith. 
Frisk will present a "Noontalk" on "Master Draw­ings from the Permanent Col­lection" Tuesday, March 3, from 
12:10 to 12:55 p.m. in the O'Shaughnessy Gallery West. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
The Snite Museum is open Tuesday to Friday 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Sunday 1 to) 4 p.m. and Thursday 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. It is closed on Mondays. Admission is free. 
WELCOME~ 
-
JUNIOR PARENTS > 
~t 
FEBRUARY SPECIAL House Specialty Oven Baked Apple Pancakes
$J 00 o:; 
Month 
No Coupon Needed 
Serving Michiana For Over 26 Years 
U.S. 31 North In Roseland (Across From The Holiday Inn) 272-7433 
~be-n1n~b Annua1 
ru1n~~RP~S~ 
Friday, February 21 
[am.puS-Wide Skating Part1} I0:30-l;~;~k:t: ~~~~J~A.C.C. FREEHOTC~OCOLATE!! 
We <emve lhe dghllo emci<e nowd conl<ol. 
Saturday and Sunday February 22-23 
Ski.Trip 
r S'll h ~ ~ ~ S'll ~ to ~ i~ ~ g ~ = """",ll,
--"''"' _c ~ ;'!.!0.1!4' .~ f.ll flo ~a~o ~ ~ 
Package includes:
•
Overnight accommodations ,1t the Days Inn
•
Free Continental Breakfast (Sunday i\M)
•
Discount on Ski Rentals 
• Two-day lift ticket 
ONLY $65!! 
Sign-ups for the Caberfae Ski Trip will be Feb. 12-14 in lhe S.U.ll. Office (6-7l'ML 
•rull p,,~·mctll ~at llll' tim(' of sign up. 
Anytime afterwards, please sign up at th!! Student Government Receptioni~t's Desk (BARB).
..........,,,, 
The ObserveftJon Novak 
News at night 
Chris Liang, a Stanford sophomore, skims the newspaper last night for some eye-catching news. 
S.B. police: Don't park in the snow 
Special to The Observer 
The South Bend Police Department would like to make students aware of the possibility of having their vehicles ticketed or towed while parked on City streets during heavy snow con­ditions, and during spring break. 
The City of South Bend has established two snow removal plans for efficient removal of snow from City streets during periods of heavy snow. The fii"st plan, the "Snow Route Clearance Condition," prohibits vehicles from parking on a street designated by signs as a 
"SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE," 
unless the  street has  been  
properly cleared of snow.  
The  second  plan,  the  

"Residential Snow Clearance Condition," will allow parking on streets declared "SNOW 
EMERGENCY ROUTES," but shall ban parking from 8 a.m. until 8 a.m. the following day · on all streets not designated as snow routes in accord with the following schedule: 
•Even 
numbered days-No parking on easVwest streets; and 

•Odd 
numbered days-No parking on north/south streets. In addition a vehicle may also 


be ticketed or towed under In­diana State law if not moved for three days, parked illegally, or creating a hazard. 
The South Bend Police Department recommends that students listen to local radio and television stations during inclement weather for an­nouncements regarding the im­
plementation of snow removal plans and that during spring break they fmd proper off street parking or make arrangements to comply with state law and local parking ordinances. 
For additional information contact the South Bend Police Traffic Division at 284-9306. 
[Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 
~*****************************•
* ~-~-.-···~·----· .. ~ *I 
$*****************************• 
* 
~ 
*
* 
* 
~ * ~ * 
* 
* 
* 
*
** 
* 
* 
* .ll_ 'l 
.lL_ 
* 
T\* 
~ 
* 

From: Brett, Lunchmeat, Donnahoosier, John and Everyone else back in the 
70's 
$3.50~--......
~l:()TT~IYX[~ 
All Shows Scottsdale Mall • 291-4583 Before6 pm 

~~f PICTURES ~ 
7k~f!/lliE­
GRtbT rvn.aI)JraM. 
Dei¥ 5:00, 6:<1!1, 8:45 
Dei~ 4:30, 7;00, 9:30 
Sat, Sun, Mon 1:00, 3:00, 5:00, 6:<1!1, 1:45 
Sat, Sun. Mon 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
Tuw~ ct tuu~ivr $3.50 
All Shows ~'!~!!"~~~..._
2340 N. Hickory Rd. • 259-9090
MY GIRL -··"" ~; 
,.,.oo,,. @) 

FIIEEJIC/1 ® 
Sat,Sun, Mon 1:00, 3:00, 5:00, 7:15 
You'll hol'l ~, 
WAYIHalD 
Dally 5:15. 7:30, 9:45 Sat, Sun, Mon 1:15. 3:15, 5:15,7:30, 9:45 
Dei~ 8:30 
Sat, Sun. Mon 9:30 

STEVE MARTIN 
fATIIlR of the BRIO[
Dei¥ 4:30, 7:00, 8:15 Sat, Sun, Mon 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:15 
page4 The Observer Friday, February 14,1992 
Harkin: Vietnam draft issue will doom Clinton 
CONCORD, N.H. (AP) Democratic hopeful Tom Harkin predicted Thursday a Vietnam draft controversy would doom the candidacy of rival Bill Clinton. The Arkansas governor dismissed the attack as an act of desperation. 
But Paul Tsongas, leading in the polis, scoffed at that notion and traded barbs with Harkin as the candidates battled Into the final weekend before the New Hampshire primary on Tuesday. 
"Governor Clinton is viable, to dismiss Governor Clinton, I think, Is a major mistake, "said Tsongas, a former Mas­sachusetts senator. 
Sen. Bob Kerrey of Nebraska expressed doubt that Clinton has been fully candid about the draft. But he added: "I do not want to reopen the wounds of Vietnam." 
Kerrey said the controversy was now "between Bill Clinton and the voters." 
Clinton, Kerrey and Tsongas 
Storm 
continued from page 1 
common sense precaution." 
Meteorologists said the storms' strength and heavy rain resulted from El Niiio, the sporadic warming of surface water In the eastern Paciflc that generates strong thunderstorms over the equator. 
The jet stream can funnel that energy and moisture northward 
Scrolls 
continued from page1 
Her than any other version 
found. 
The non-biblical texts are 
more diverse. These 
manuscripts include legal doc­
uments, apocrypha, commen­
taries, and manuscripts speciflc 
to the community, among 
others. 
The "Manual of Discipline" is 
one manuscript speciflc to the 
community which scholars en­
joy studying. One section doc­
uments two camps of basic 
theology which are dominated 
by two spirits, the Sons of Light 
and the Sons of Darkness. One 
of the commentaries found dis­
cussed the "end of time" and 
battle between these two 
camps. 
"Bootleg" translations by a computer are circulating, caus­ing media all over the world to wonder why this project has taken so long. Both professors stressed the extreme time con­sumption of a project of this magnitude. 
"(This) really is a thirty year project," said Ulrich. Of the computer translations, Ulrich said they were " ... thousands of Index cards written by hand. That is supposedly the great concordance that was recently published by computer." 
Considering the " ... miserable jumble of scraps" found, " ... the multiplicity of textual forms and textual traditions," and the fact that Qumran Is located In a war zone which has changed hands three limes since the discovery of the caves, said Ulrich, it Is no surprise these translations are coming slowly. 
Another problem the transla­tors encountered was numer­ous errors made by the actual scribes. Several manuscripts display corrections which change the meaning of the text. 
tried to concentrate their flre on President Bush. But Harkin's attacks set off an intra-party donnybrook. 
GOP challenger Patrick Buchanan claimed he was gain­ing momentum and scoffed at President Bush's remarks in a visit here Wednesday. 
"I think it's wonderful that Mr. Bush has come up here to see the consequences of his policies," Buchanan said. "He talks about liberating the econ­omy -and you ask him, who's been In charge the last three years?" 
Bush aired a television ad that ignored Buchanan and said a vote for him would send a message to the Democratic­controlled Congress. 
"I ask for your vote to put our nation on notice that New Hampshire Republicans stand united to defeat the liberal Democrats in the fall," Bush said in the ad. 
In Washington, Bush begged off when reporters asked If 
to fuel storms like the one expected to hit by late Friday with the potential for an additional 3 to 5 inches of rain. 
And yet another storm farther out to sea was forecast by Tuesday. 
Monday's storm, which flooded part of the San Fernando Valley and stranded motorists, "was computed to be a 100-year event," or the worst that might be expected in any 100-year period, said Rick Leifield, assistant chief of engineering Buchanan would get 35 percent of vote on Tuesday. ''I'm waiting for you guys to tell me," chortled Bush. "We had a good day yesterday, though." 
The president said he was knocking off work early to hit the exercise machines. "I'm trying to get back in shape," he cracked as he left the Oval Of­fice in late afternoon wearing an overcoat and cowboy hat. "It's your basic cowboy cul­ture," he said. 
The Democratic candidates were set to meet in a nationally televised debate Sunday night. Polls show Tsongas atop the field, followed by Clinton. Harkin and Kerrey follow, with former California Gov. Jerry Brown trailing. 
A day after releasing a 22­year-old letter in which he ago­nized about Vietnam and thanked an ROTC commander for "saving me from the draft," Clinton tried to stick to eco­nomic issues. 
for the Los Angeles District of the Army Corps of Engineers. 
Residents of coastal, canyon and suburban neighborhoods constructed, rebuilt and rein­forced sandbag canals and barriers to protect property from more high water and mud slides. 
The Malibu coastal resort was awash in water, mud and debris. Beaches were littered with uprooted trees, timbers and trash as filthy, sewage­contaminated waves crashed to shore. 
GATES CHEVY WORLD Dwaine Goshen 


237-4017 
For your new and used car needs. 

Se habla espanol 

But he flred back when told of Seabrook. He added: "Tom Harkin's prediction. The Iowan, Harkin never said boo. There in a morning telephone are nuclear plants in Iowa and interview, said: "It seals his no record of Tom Harkin saying fate.... He thanked them for boo." getting him out of the draft. You "Here we are flve days before can't get any clearer than that." the primary and he discovers 
Clinton reminded an inter­Seabrook," Tsongas said. "What viewer that he had ultimately you have here is a candidate given up his deferment and en­not doing well." tered the draft but was not Tsongas took delight in re­called. calling Harkin's vow to win New 
"He hasn't been able to get Hampshire and his early anybody to buy onto his mes­campaign promise not to attack sage, so he's just running the fellow Democrats. rest of us down," Clinton said. "Just like any cynical politi­" ... I don't think it makes him a cian, the commitments made bigger man." before don't count when it's in 
Clinton's campaign bought 30-your best interest to change it," minute slots on New Hampshire Tsongas said. television Thursday and Friday Harkin launched a fresh tele­nights to answer questions from vision ad claiming Tsongas, voters. Clinton and Kerrey all favor 
Harkin characterized Tsongas "more tax cuts for the rich and as a "cheerleader" for nuclear big business." All three cam­power and New Hampshire's paigns accused Harkin of dis­controversial Seabrook reactor. tortion. 
Tsongas supports nuclear Tsongas said that Clinton's 
power but noted that he op­draft status was "part of the 
posed the beach-side siting of discussion" in the campaign . 


OBCJAPAN 
OBC English Conversation School is offering full time teaching positions beginning in July 1992. Excellent working conditions, benefits, and salary Open to ALL majors. Career and Placement Services February 24, 25, 26

Thus many ask, what is the real text of the Bible? 
The errors in the Dead Sea Scrolls may have been passed on, resulting in incorrect ver­sions of the Bible. One para­graph from Samuel was found in the scrolls and recently added the the Revised Standard Version of the Bible. However, what about the rest of the text? 
Ulrich and VanderKam, among others, are working. diligently on these scrolls. However, there are some things they may never discover. Ulrich said that it is a luxury and a frustration of a project like this one that sometimes he has to simply tell himself, "I don't know." 





Congratulations to All Notre Dame Juniors and Your Parents! May You Have a Joyous, Festive and Memorable Weekend. 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & Co SC 

Friday, February 14,1992 The Observer page 5 
Brother of late Charles Stuart testifies in murder case 
Smithsonian unveils homeless exhibit 


BOSTON (AP) -The brother of the late Charles Stuart testi­fied publicly Thursday for the first time since he implicated his brother in a bizarre plot to murder Stuart's pregnant wife. 
But Matthew Stuart's testi­mony, in a pretrial hearing on his attorneys' request that the case against him be dropped, focused more on his dealings with authorities than the slay­ing. 
Stuart, who is charged with conspiring to obstruct justice, said he wouldn't have come forward if he knew he would be indicted. 
He said he gave investigators evidence about the crime with the understanding that he wouldn't be prosecuted. He wouldn't say whether he feared being charged as an accomplice to the murder. 
"I was concerned about my legal entanglements," Stuart said. "What I had been sucked into, for want of a better term." 
Authorities believe Charles Stuart killed his wife, Carol, the night of Oct. 23, 1989, after a child-birth class. Charles Stuart, who also was shot, told police he and his wife were attacked in their car by a mugger. His description of the attack in a 911 call from his car phone was played across the country. 
But the case developed into a twisted tale of a man's alleged plot to kill his wife, and Stuart died in an apparent suicide as authorities closed in on him. 
A grand jury in September 

Matthew Stuart 
indicted Matthew Stuart on charges of conspiracy to ob­struct justice and compounding a felony. A friend, John McMa­hon, was indicted as an acces­sory to murder after the fact. 
Prosecutors say Matthew 

Stuart met his brother at the crime scene and retrieved a re­volver and personal belongings of Stuart wife. He and McMahon are accused of hiding the evidence that would have ex­posed the plot. 
Attorneys for Matthew Stuart say the indictments should be dropped because he was im­properly advised by attorney John Perenyi to come forward, and that prosecutors never in­formed him of his right against self-incrimination. 
Authorities only discovered Charles. Stuart's hoax when Matthew Stuart told prosecu­tors Jan. 3, 1990, that he helped stage what he thought was an insurance scam. The next day, Charles Stuart plunged to his death from a bridge. 
Testifying in Suffolk Superior Court, Matthew Stuart re­counted how he met with Perenyi before telling prosecu­tors his story. Stuart said Perenyi assured him several times that he wouldn't be pros­ecuted. 
Asked if he would have come forward had he thought he would be indicted, Stuart said, "Absolutely not." 
Stuart said he was never read his rights by prosecutors. 
Assistant District Attorney Thomas Mundy pressed Stuart on whether he was worried about being turned in by his brother. 
"I thought he was capable of it, sure," Stuart said. 
STUDENT RATES 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The the Smithsonian's Experimental Smithsonian Institution, seeking Gallery, forces visitors to be­-Tanning Always Available* 
to break the mold of museums come "performers" and uses as "idealized mansions," is the voices of real homeless
Open 7Days 
opening an exhibit on home­people to narrate the adven­lessness that lets visitors lie in a ture. morgue, fend off an attacker The journey takes visitors and listen to a prostitute having from the crib of a drug-addicted sex. baby through dark alleys to jail, 
The "Etiquette of the Under-a park bench and the locked 

-Cardiovascular Area Ufecycles, Ufesteps, Uferowers, Ufestrlde Treadmill -OVer 40 Aerobic Classes per Week -13,000 lbs of'Free Weights -Individual Exercise Programs 
130 W. Edison Rd. Mish, IN 46545 
for the following paid positions: Illustrations Director Graphics Director 
•Applicants 
for Illustration Director should have strong drawing skills and editorial experience. 

•Applicants 
for Graphics Director should be creative and familiar with Macintosh MacDraw. 

•All 
applicants must have good management skills. 


To apply, submit a one page personal statement, resume, and 3 lf::~nnn,.~c: of past work to John Rock by 5 p.m. Tuesday, Feb. 18. 
For further job descri call The Observer, 239-5303 
classes. Sirens blare and 
profanities are shouted. 
Smithsonian Secretary Robert McAdams says he expects some visitors to be taken aback by the exhibit's "rather harsh" language and avant-garde por­trayal of street life. 
"Museums were thought to be 
storehouses of idealized man­
sions," but now are struggling 
to defme a new relationship to 
the contemporary world, he 
said. "There are no guidelines 
as to how far you can go." 
In one section of the tour, the visitor is asked to recline in a bed and listen to tape recording of a prostitute having sex with a john and being pressured to accept $200. 
"Who is smarter, the girl who gets paid for it or the one who gives it away for free?" a woman's voice asks. 
The project, which was funded by about $15,000 in pri­vate donations, combines the voices of homeless people in California as well as social workers, police, priests and bartenders into the soundtrack. 

LegendsTennis 
lOth-Ranked Notre Dame vs. The Legends of Tennis 
Hank Pfister 
• Two-Ume French Open Doubles Champ • 
John Lloyd 
• Wimbledon & French Open Mixed Doubles Champ • 
Peter Fleming 
• 4 Wimbledon & 3 U.S. Open Titles • 
Gene Mayer 
• U.S. Davis Cup Member • 
Colin Dibley 
• 17 Grand Prix Doubles TiUes • 
February 15 •• 1:30 p.m. Eck Tennis Pavilion University of Notre Dame 
Tickets: $25 Courtside, $7 Adult (Gen. Adm.) , $5 Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Students & Youth under 16 Call (219) 239-7356 for Tickets 

u::=-~ 
r.:-t.. ~~ .?Turtle -~Creek~ 
Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 2/1 0 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 

Thinking ofdoing ayearofservice? Howabout doingit for alifetime? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the . Universit~ of Notre Dame for college graduates mterested m exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
.-------------~~----------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 

page6 
Class 
continued from page 9 
JOB Roses are red, Violets are blue, You drive me crazy, But I still love you. 
HAPPY VALENTINES DAY PIGGY/ REMEMBER ITS NPD, VALENTINES DAY, AND BIKER PIG'S BIRTHDAY. I LOVE YOU. THANKS FOR BEING MY WIFE. 
Jennifer Maus: "She's got a smile that heals me. I don't know what It Is, but I have to laugh when she reveals me.· 
-Billy Joel 
DEARPOOK­AFTEFI2 1/2 VAS. YOU STILL KNOW HOW TO KEEP THE FLAMES BURNING. NEXT TIME JUST KEEP MY LEGS OUT OF THE WAY. 
MUCH LOVE ALWAYS, JOYCE 
liz is a lumberjack, but that's okay because I love her anyway. Joe 
To King: You bum me with desire The way you say you never tire, To your chick magent we do flood, Up until now you appear to be all talk, When will the bedwarming take place? 
Your ever-lustful Florida chicks 
Eto, 
Happy Valentine's Dayll Thanks lor a most wonder1ul year and a hall. You're the best/ 
I love you, Win 
My love, my sweet Hello Bird. Je 'tern. "Jay own v do twa" Ewldishalow JP. Hey, is It 3yrs or 2? We'll create our own get away, Calvin-By the way, wanna babysit on friday? You're greall Circle, circle, circi&--Square? NOI ...Circle. I love you. Happy Valentine's Day '921 
!P'Illllt1fm' DIImlHI 
4l 
~Mnoii!IJ!1f\!IIJ) 
IF'tmlluMll 'II'~ efrubmenta, Papa John'• Pizza Karaoke Slna-Along, Sweet OJ Cude Point Clubhouae 
Must be 21 Years ol Age-NO Exceptions Call Lana D•w.on 0 271-1681 
Welcome to Notre Dame, Junior Parents! Recycle!! 
JJ, Estllvan, Ed, Allee, liz, Cath, 
... You guys really mean a lot to me. That's why I want to wish ya'll a Happy Valentine's Day. 
SHIH WEN-YIN: Ni shr wo de dzwel hau peng-you. Ni shr wo de ai ren. Wo yau yong-yuen gen ni dzai y chi. MIKO 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY to Kathy, Mags, Karen, Greeny, and especially to my lovely, charming, stick-shifting, FRUMPY, squeaky assistant. .. Beaker. Happy V.D. to that tired girl on the plane to Chicago. I've never bought a Coke that's given me a bigger smileill 
love, 
Drew 
My little lotus blossom, 
Your the best thing to happen since James Brown's parole and washing­machine daquiris. Thanks lor all your shaving efforts. Read the next line tomorrow: last night was great! !love you and our 4 kids! -the sexiest man in the world 
nill, kristin, marge, lush, katey, kar­
bear, heidi-ho-ho, mo, joyful, mer­bear and shannon: Happy Black 
Friday, oops, Valentine's Day. thanks lor being my eternal sweethearts. mony ps: the cancun countdown: 22 days til sun and sin. 
bobby t. dickinson and goosedog: happy sweeheart's day to the deepest, most psychological guys in the greater london area. love and sloppy wet kisses .... mo 
Democrats offer tax cuts 
WASHINGTON (AP) Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee began lining up Thursday behind a soak-the-rich tax cut for the middle class that also includes part of the capital-gains tax reduction demanded by Presi­dent Bush. 
"It's clear to us we have a document we'll be able to come together on," Rep. Jim Moody, D-Wis., told reporters after Democrats on the tax-writing panel ended a day of closed­door deliberations. "This is go­ing to be a tax reduction for most Americans," especially those at middle income levels, he said. 
"You can bet your life we'll be in the 92nd percentile of ap­proval when we come out with this tax package," said Rep. Dan Rostenkowski, D-Ill., chairman of the full committee. 
At the White House, reporters told Bush as he left the Oval Of­fice that the Democrats had come up with a soak-the-rich plan. The president cringed in mock alarm, but made no comment. 
His spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, said, "It's the same old tax and spend Democrats." 
Happy 21st Birthday (Finally) 
j}{f@!flft.!Jfl&!f 
We love you, Mom, Dad, Alex and Margo 
~(Q) U~U~IHI 
IHIITLr LriHII§: ~IU\~IHI 
Spring Breakin' in 
Panama City, FL $99 Daytona Beach, FL $159 Ft. Lauderdale/Bahamas Cruise $279 Cancun $489 
Call Lance Dawson@ 271-1681 

DIAL 27-ROSES 
FOR VALENTINE FLOWERS-CUT ROSES-BONSAI PLANTS 
ROSELAND FRUIT AND GARDEN CENTER-(ACROSS FROM RANDAllS INN) 
27-ROSES OR 277-6737 OR 272-7760 
YOU ARE OFFERID A $2.00 DISCOUNT ON THE PURCHASE OF A DOZEN ROSES, IF AND ONLY IF, WHEN YOU ORDER YOUR ROSES YOU TELL US HOW MANY LEITERS ARE IN THE PHRASE, "THE AGHTING IRISH OF NOTRE DAME"! 
VISA WE DELIVER 
Friday, February 14, 1992 
The ObseMir/Jon Novak 

All boxed in 
This work of art, found in front of Le Mans Hall on the Saint Mary's campus, emphasizes geometric shapes and proportions. 
THE POH\\\,',~TOMII\1\v,L\NIS CLUB 
rf\~11!~ ATIll Aft:~ 
VVI1VI\nl VL.nl L..V 
ST. MARY'S 
CIRCLE K 
FOR YOUR VOLUNTEER C0~1~1UNITY SERVICE EFFORTS ~'ITHIN THE MICHIANA CO~·IMUNITY. .FOOD BASKETS FOR THE NEEDY JIUSCULAR THERAPY AT N.I.S.H. .ADOPT-A-HIGHWAY ON U.S.31 .SERVICE TO ADULT DAY CARE CENTER .YOUTH EVENTS FOR \\/OMEN'S SHELTER 
NATIONAL CIRCLE K RECOGNITION \\lEEK 
---~ --~ --------~--~~--------~~­
----~---~~-~-----------...., 

The <lleeMir/Jon Novak 

Ready for renovation 
A committee recently determined the Church of loretto will be renovated. The renovation, which has caused controversy in the Saint Mary's commun~y. will include moving the pews and replacing stained glass windows w~h clear glass.
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••1 
•

t h1
: Itcan epyou
i organiZe your notes,i desigq your pqrtyflye~
i and fillish your dass project
i before sprtng break 
t The new Apple" Macinta;h· Classic" ll t computer makes it easier for you to jugglet classes, aaivities, projects, and term papers-t and still find time for what makes college life t real life. t It's acomplete and t affordable Macintosh Classic t system that's ready to help yout get your work finished fust. t It's asnap to set up and use. 
• 
It has apowerful68030 micro­

• 
processor, which means you 

• 
can run even the most t sophisticated applications with 


ease. Among its many built-in t capabilities is the internal Applet SuperDrive"' disk drive 
• that reads from 
• ~~ro 
• 
Macinta;h and MS-OOS formatted disks-allowing you to exchange information easily with alma;t any other kind ofcomputer. 

Ifyou already own aMacinta;h Classic, and want the speed and flexibility ofaMacintosh Classic ll, ask us about an upgrade-it can be installed in amatter of minutes and it's affordable. 
To make more time for your personal life, get a Macinta;h Classic ll for your personal space. See us for a demonstration today, and while you're in, be sure to ask us for details about the Apple 
Computer Loan. It'll be time well 
: Notre Dame Computer Store 
• 
Room 112 Math/Computer Building 239-7477 

• 
e 1992 Apple Compmer.lnc Apple, the Apple logo, and M:oomosh m regt.5tered lr.ldem:ori<s and SuperDnve ~a trldemirk ol Apple Compmer, Inc MS.DOS ~ • regJSiered tradem:ori<


1•••••••••;~;;;:;,;:;;;;;;;;;;:;;••••••••••, 
•
•
i
i
i
i
i 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
• 

t 
• 

:• 
• 
•. i 
t 
page7 

SECURITY BEAT 
THURSDAY, FEB. 6 
5:47 a.m. A University employee reported that two windows on the second floor of the Administration Building had been broken. Apparently someone threw rocks through the windows. 
7:41 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of his unlocked bicycle from outside of the Galvin Life Science Building. 
FRIDAY, FEB. 7 
1:21 a.m. An Alumni Hall resident reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
4:11 p.m. Four victims reported having valuables stolen from their clothes while they were playing racquetball at the JACC. 
5:50 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
7:19 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police responded to a two vehicle accident on 
U.S. 33. No injuries were reported. 
10:05 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police responded to an accident involving a delivery truck and a car in the C-1 parking lot. No injuries were reported.. 
SATURDAY, FEB. 8 
1:20 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police responded to a report of a male suspect harassing females between Sorin and Walsh Halls. The suspect was found at the huddle. He was issued a trespass notice and transported the oll-aunpus. 
2:02 p.m. A Sorin Hall resident reported the theft of his unlocked bicycle from the bike rack at LaFortune. 
SUNDAY, FEB. 9 
12:15 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of his CD player from his unlocked dorm room. 
3:50 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident reported the theft of his wallet from the main floor of Washington Hall. 
6:40 p.m. A visitor to the University reported the theft of a perpetual candle from the sight of his son's grave at Cedar Grove Cemetery. 
MONDAY, FEB. 10 
1:59 a.m. A Notre Dame Secu­rity/Police officer discovered three broken windows at the Hur1ey Building. 
3:31 a.m. A Notre Dame Secu­rity/Police officer discovered that the phone in the Lewis Bus Shelter was vandalized. 
2:19 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
7:50p.m. Two visitors to the University reported having valuables stolen from their dothes while they were playing racquetball attheJACC. 
TUESDAY, FEB.11 
10:20 a.m. A Knott Hall resident reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
11:11 a.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported the theft of his cellular phone and eeveral other items from his vehide while the vehicle had been parked in the D-2 parking lot. 
1:20 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of his bookbag from North Dining Hall. The victim's checkbook was in the bookbag at the time. It was later discovered that a check had already been cashed on the victims account. 

2446 M1racle Lane Town & Country Shopping Center 258 4911 • Eat In Or Carrv Out 
~tudcnts 
r:1tcd 
liS 
11 1.. 

JJ~!Ml~ll~~ IID~llil~lMl!~ 
®
INCLUDES, 
lltOUNOTIUP AIRFAIIlE! Glltf.AT HOUL ACCOMMODATIONS! III.OUNOTIII.IP AUlP'OII:T TRANSfUtS! ALL HOTfl TAIU.S. SUWICE CHAitClS.. 
AR"D CII:ATUITI[$' 
PLUS MUCH MOllE! 
resen·e now! 1· 800-331·3136
-
~ 
lm•rkonSoeltty -'IIOYIIAgtniS 
AmericanAirlines· 
Som~fiJmg J{11.rial ;,. dX' ,.;i 
oirJamaica~ 



page !j The Observer Friday, February 14, 1992 
Bridget, Steve-Gennie, Colleen, and L.a­Call Me! I saw the moonI Happy Valentine's Daylllll 

TO MY 3-FINGERED MAN: Happy Valentines Day, betty 
One flavor of Yo-Cream isn't
Class 
Happy Valentine's Day Happy Valentines Day! Happy Valentine's Daylllllas bad as you think. 1LOVE to the one with the 

-Me Happy Valentine's DayIIIIIlaughing with you (among other wonderful smirk. Tanya,
continued from page15 Love,
things, bull won't list those here). My Fee-antsy, S&S honey, Michelle, HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY LoveM You're still the light of my life and 
Cheryl 

had a wonderefultime have been since I first saw you so I promised to be good, long ago. but you would have been sad.
thought I'd write this rhyme To My POOKIE (aka Tony) I wish I could fit all the And the mirror on the wall, Mltutaa,
& wish you a happy valentine I LOVE YOU, need I say more. Garth Brooks kiscks ass. mushy things I want to say Into this Knows I'm the best you've had. Anata al shite imasu. 
-the clown In red suspenderds HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY. Hugs small space. I love you forever. 
So if your heart hasn't died, Huredomeister
and Kisses In all the right places. Kweek-Kweek, 
David and your legs are in the alr,Forever and always, DILLI DILLI and if 3 minutes Is enough,
Bunny, Sunshine( aka Kathy) Where are you? I just wanted then you two must be the HAPPY BIRTHDAY JANELLIII
Happy Valentine's Dayl to say, YOU MAKE ME SO 
Love, Joe
Love, Peter P.S. Happy love day to HAPPY Ill MollyW., better pair. Yolenda2, the Fourth Floor Love, once again, 
We don't talk or see eachother If there Is one thing I'm not, And one thing I am.
quint, The Family, and My favorite Kristy. much, but you know if you ever 
You owe me one phone call, Kaleidoscopic Kate ­
WATER POLO PEOPLE Little Bro., Tommy need a friend, I'm here. Good Luck this weekend! Kick BARTl 
Happy Valentine's Daylll to have me again. I have spoken to PDB and WE
some bull, and win one for the Stud! Happy Valentines Day to Everyone Mark -Palmer 
. . . . . have come to the conclusion
Find A Way To My that you've tranquilized us InJoe (Stud): On the day ol Love, Bridget the euphoric consequence

ValentiMS, I gave to my true love ... HEART IIIII II Kelley, Krista, 
ol your presence, enamored In 
a personal! H-wv V-Day, honey! Sorry I got you pregnant. Oh well, Happy Valentine's Dayll I can't wait your wonderfulness ...... . 
Merediith M Is hot. -A secret looks like we can move In with my
Love you, -confussed-to spend the rest of my life with Carrie 
admirer. parents. 
youII 
Grover
Love,

I miss you I Love,
John 

John 
raft. watch out for my psycho anti­TO MY 3-FINGERED MAN: P.S. Stop being so damn nosy and
Colleen Feeley Is hot To the SECRET LOVER who meets

valentine's day babble that's coming reading the personals, Mom. 
Arthur-me belwMn HAYES and
alr mall. as usual, I'm a basket case. One HaVOf of Yo-Cream Isn't 425 Sweetheart-l'm so glad we made it to our HEALY...Happy Valentine's Day!
as bed as you think. I LOVE 
It's been a wondeful 2 years. second Valentine's Da~ wasn't I hope your HTH likes her 
laughing with you (among other To my little sea nymph:
The next 2 will be even better. always easy... 
flowers ... HAI
Will you be my Valentine? things, but I won'tllst those here). Thanks for another great year. I
Let's celebrate In the SHACK! Let me try to remind you of some of 
Love, MSP (HI Will)

.... Greg, Curt, 2-E, Chris, KP, Brian, HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY know It's been rocky at some points,
Not for anything, but: you're the good times since then: 
but I suppose it can only get better.
Kevin, Gil, Mark.... a pretty cool chick. Steamy love letters from a long, dry 
Get psyched for this weekend. 

xoxo LOVE AND SKR circle, summer, love in the 'Bend on a hot KATE McLEAN!
PETE OVERHEU I love you!
Carrie Me summer day, EIC, the desk, 
You are the Island In my sea of The little boy from 0-C-Iand the floor, making and keeping bets, HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY!
chaos. Thanks. 
romantic dinners at the 'View, Wish I were here!
Cuddles, Happy V-Daylll 
ANDREA FROM MD., hanging out at Coaches, making up,Luv yal Happy Valentine's, my little HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY, Kitty McCloskey is an incredibly hot making good use of the single, 
EnjoyJPWI
bringer of luncheon meats! Luv yal HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY, babe. There are many men who are baths, an awesomely romantic BUTCH madly in lust with her but who are
Doodles DIDN'T GET A CHANCE TO weekend in Chicago-mirrors, baby Love,too meek In the face of her godlike 
FINISH DRINK-WOULD LIKE TO. oil, Como, Da Bulls.
Where are you? beauty to ask her over to their Marc
WOULD LIKE TO SEE YOU SOON. Most of all, the happy mornings I 
Johnny I MISS YOU! rooms for champagne and vaseline­
CALL KIM 233-3912. woke up lying in your arms. 
I love you. Come visit soon. based sports. All of us must fester 
HAVE FUN IN CHICAGO. I love you.
I especially love you when you're BETTY in our Kitty-based impure thoughts. see CLASS page 9
Jeanne bright red, itchy, drooly, crabby and Love, the men from The Big 0. swollen. Love, Mom t12 
Happy V-Day, United Colors of Ti\NNING ~ 
ATTENTION ALL
Farley (344)Ill Luv, Your Productive Study Partner 
~ 
*SPECIAL* 
~ 

CLUB PRESIDENTS 
Happy V-Day, United Colors of 
~ 

Farley (344)111 Luv, YOlK Productive Study Partner 
~ 
~ 

~ The 1992...93 Registration and 
WUB NU WUBNU WUBNU 
~ Budget packets will be 
Peelw, Thanks for everything, Nibb& Is 

~~1\.lio~ ~ available to be picked up from the
awesome! I love youll Snugglafest 5 Is coming! I can't wait for Aug. 8 th. 
O~tP

Love, ~ Club Coordination Council office 
Scooter 
-~-~'trj

p.s. Happy V-dayl 
~ (room 206 LaFortune) on
GYM. 

I love the hairy little Lebanese girt ~ Feb. 17... Feb.19.
LIMITED TIME OFFER 

~ The packets must be completed 
TO MY 3-FINGERED MAN: 
-Over 40 Reebok Step Classes 

One HaVOf of Yo-Cream isn't ~ 
and returned by Wed. March 4.
-Lifesteps, Cycles, Rowers, Treadmills 

as bad as you think. I LOVE 
laughing with you (among other 
I -Personal Trainers & Nutritionist Available ~ No exceptions!! All social service 
I things, bull won't list those here). HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY 
l 
~ & graduate clubs must also 
TO MY 3-FINGERED MAN: One flavor of Yo-Cream Isn't 
~ pick up their forms from 
as bad as you think. I LOVE 
laughing wllh you (among other 
~ the CCC office. things, but I won't list those here). HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY 



FEELING ALL COOPED UP? 
r~....~..~... _.......--...11111111111-----,
! 50~ Off! SO~ Off! 60~ Off! ! 
1 Any Regular Or Large Any Pint Or Quart Of 1
A Classic Sundae 

1 Cup or Cone Frozen Yogurt 1 
I Offer good only at participating full-sized 
I 

I Can't Believe It's Yogurt" stores. Coupon notI valid with any other offer. I I Soft serve only. I Can't BelieveIt's 
Offer Expires 2/29/92 Yogyrt! I 
1 I
I ©1992 I Can't Believe It's Yogurt. Ltd. ® 
1

1635 Edison Road (2 Blocks East of N.D. Stadium 1 1635 Edison Road (2 Blocks East of N.D. Stadium 1 1 1635 Edison Road (2 Blocks East of N D. Stadium I I 1 271-954D 1 271-954D 1 271-954o I 
L--------------L-------------~-------------~ 



Friday, February 14, 1992 The Observer page 9 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY, MOM Michael, MiAmor, II, A VALENTINE'S DAY GREETING
Class 
AND DADI JPW WILL BE Will thou art be mine? Even though we may disagree at FOR SOME OF MY FAVORITE 
Arthur Andersen is proud to announce the following University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students have accepted offers to 
AWESOMEIII I LOVE YOU-My fair,sweet Valentine? times, know that I honestly LOVE continued from page 8 
JITHER Love you, Renee YOU w~h all my heart now and 

-----------forever. Happy Valentine's Day to the Happy Valentine's Day Dear! guys in 9B who "get none and Erica, Erin, Diggy and Helen, Here's to two wonderful years. LIKE IT" from two girls who Thanks for being so caring and You girls are the greatestll Con mucho carino, get some and LOVE !Till wonderful. I promise to make our I love you all. Veronica 
1st Valentine's Day special. Twang, RAY-NAY ----------­JMS is a GODDESS. 
Love, -------..,....---­Pat Happy Valentine's Day, SteenI 

We love you Amy, oh yes we do. 
Diane "In the bunks, in the playingWe love you Amy and we'll be true. 

These "difficult months" aren't so fields...", "Count me out-1 will be at Since you're not with us we're blueI 

liam, bad. Thanks for letting me be your Pamela's," "I'm the equipmentOh Amy we love you II 
Je t'aime. Jete manque. "honey". managerlll" I love you-see you Est-que rna francais est bonne?I? -Guy with same 1st initial. soonI Jither
To my Greek Freak: 
Happy Valentine's Dayi Love, Maura
Viva Ia Jello Wrestling! 
Studs of Grace 9D, OB-Happy Valentine's DaylHappy Valentine's Day, Gomez and My otter trawler: We want 2 sex U upl I love you.

Morticiallllll Lucky usl My test came back Can we B your Valentines KTnegative. Next time, buy one that In the Pit-'0-Passion? ----------­Mia, Liz, Lisa, & Christi won't break, OK? 
I'll love you forever

You said no one gave you -Kandy Kane 
Luv, Thanx,Valentines, anymore. Well HAPPY Heidi-Ho, Super Nance, Ann-MarieVALENTINES! 

Heidi-Mo. Laura, & KathLoveD&R Carra (Cano), Corey,3 down, many more to goI This is our second Valentine'sJennifer is the most beautiful Aren't you impressed I 

SuperH-1 LOFF YOUII-PT Day together, and I've enjoyedwoman in the WORLDIIIII Happy actually remembered. I love 

-----------every minute with you. Thinking

Valentine's Day FWOM you very much and I am about the times we have shared,getting very excited about 
Christine; brings a smile to my face. I hope

Pothead August 29. I hope this is a "Love is friendship we share many more of theseI hope this VD is a good as the last nice surprise. 
caught lire." special days. You truly mean the 

one. Love Always, -Bruce Lee (or Dear Abby, world to me. I love you,
Unfortunately, ~ looks like we'll be Tim I'm not sure) Nicole.
plagued by the red sea every year, Love,will you at least wade? 
Steve 
R. Szabo, 
That's too bad it didn~ work out between us. I hope we can still be friends. ? ? II I I Have a happy Valentine's Day. 
-C. 
Mom and Dad Crooks, Welcome to lovely South Bend! Hope you have a very Happy 28th

How happy we would be 
Anniversary! II II LoveYour Favorite Daughter (Peggy Ann)


if we could be with you 
Bryan, 
Happy Valentine's Day to the World's Greatest Boyfriend!II Love 


enjoying all the fun of 
J.P.W. 
Peggy 
Peggy,



All our love, 
Thanks, Happy Valentines' Week to you too. 
Bryan with love

om& 
memories tie what time cannot. .. what was born on a sunday afternoon has continued a year through... 
thank you for the love & everything, belly. 
p.s.: what are you doing monday. maybe we can retrace the gabriel­rhythms. 
yo-yo 
~·s our senior year, what do you say some time, listening to marvin gaye where shall we meet, where shall 
we play either way, happy valentines day 
mr. telephone man 

roses are red violets are blue if I dont get a job im coming back to you (JUST KIDDINGIll) 
just wanted to wish you a HAPPY VALENTINE'S. 
your son, eric 

p.s. thanks for all the letters. 
A Valentines Day Poem to Jen, Kelly, Mandy, Meagan, 
Michelle, Tina and Val. What glorious clueless Chix, These seven bodacious SMCs They can drink like fishies, They aim for our testes. Should we trade em for Hos? Maybe, possibly, who knows? Who else could make such 
complete duds, look like such stallion-like Studs? Love Chuck,Tom & Sam 
Herb-dog Do you still love me even though I MAKE you do everything? -The mover and shaker 
P.S.. Do I at least still get you going? 
PEOPLE... 
-My wonderful roommates-Bird, 
Kristen, Megan, Elisa, Bethany, 
Tate, and Lara 
-The rest of 2A PW 
-Peanut, AI, Michelle, Went and the 
restof3A 
-Kevin, Joe and Tony 
-Mark and Chris 
-Jell and Russ 
-Ronny, Tim, Ed, and Troy 
-Luke, Pat, Cam, and Mike 
-Paul, Tim, Dave, Steve, Andy, 
John, and the rest of 1OD 
-Matt and Darren 
-Sexy, Schnack, and all their 
roommates. 
-Rich, Mike, and the rest of the 
sports department 
-Dave, Greg, Dave and Dave 
Have a wonderful dayll I love you allll 
Marten 
Hairball,... Salutations. Not that you deserve this, but yeah, I miss you too. Hope to collect on promised "tailor-made hugs" really soon.­love, the plumber who can't fix the bloody sink. 
Aloicious, Joyous, Anne, Shannon, and Jen,..... 
HAPPY HELLISH DAYIIIII Remember to dress in mourningill 
Love and Aardvarks, 
Incognito aka, the incessant babbler 
NAUGH U'R 2 SEXY I Mark, Dave, Reg, Tom, Brian, Harv, and Nick Happy V-Day I luv, Michele and Kate 
see CLASS page 6 
Atlanta 
Matthew B. Jenkins Robert M. Quinn 
Boston 
Heather A. Burns 
Chicago 
Melinda M. Bowker Jeffrey M. Burgis Joseph Christaldi Kimberly A. Coady John F. Coffey Sarah K. Esterline Ann M. Fleming Philip G. Groves 

join us after graduation 
Nancy L. Hau Thomas R. Hester Daniel R. Hickle Katherine A. Klemmer Matthew M. Knott Timothy J. Linehan Thomas F. Matthias Alex R. Miller Patrick R. Murray Kevin D. Rooney 
M. Margaret Shane Gregory T. Soroka Jennifer K. Switzer Amy E. VVitt 
Denver 
Robert J. Reich 
Houston 

Michelle C. Kerwin 
Indianapolis 

David J. Ludwig Matthew P. McClimon 
Milwaukee 

Robert F. Thomson II 
New Jersey 

Elizabeth M. Anroman 
New York 

Christopher T. Blanco Stephanie G. Bury James J. Gillen Keri A. O'Connor 
Philadelphia 
Michael A. Toner 
Pittsburgh 
MichaelVV. TauBkrrch 
Stamford 
Sheila J. Dombal 
Tampa 
Eric S. Lovelace 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & Co SC 





Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, February 14, 1992 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Mlinaglng Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ............•..•..•..•• Monica Yanl Advertising Manager •..... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .•••••••••••••••..Joe Moody Ad Design Manager •••••••• Alissa Murphy Sports Editor •••••••••••••••David Dieteman Production Manager .....•••••••Jay Colucci Accent Editor ••••••••..•..•......John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor .•••••••.••Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ••..•••••••••••••••••Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor .•••••••••••Emily Willett Controller•••••••••••••••••••••Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. II does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LEnERS TO THE EDITOR 
WVFI station manager clarifies failed effort to move to FM 
Dear Editor: there's just static?" The fact is with the FREDline, WVFI does the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's anything but apathetic was the 
It's a crowded world. That's that there may already be sta­not run on tuition money. We community. I have been told way in which I was constantly a point that was driven home tions operating on those fre­receive our funding from the that we took our dream being approached by total to me recently, when WVFI's quencies, whose signals do not "general fund," and therefore further than it had ever gone strangers, who posed the one quest for FM came to a reach our campus. . .but they should not be subject to attack before. question, "So when is WVFI grinding halt. It was not the are there. For example, if an by students who feel cheated I have several wonderful going FM?" I always tried to Administration who pulled the Elkhart station can be tuned because they do not people to thank for dreaming explain our most recent plug, nor was it the small but in just out of the eastern appreciate the music we play. with us. Our advisor, Adele advances, but I apologize for noisy public faction that bounds of campus, that means If you don't like it, feel free to Lanan, and WNDU engineer the times when I was forced to opposed the idea from the that putting an ND/SMC turn it off. Just don't ask for George Molnar offered their respond wiLh a fretful "I don't start. It was circumstance. Put station on that frequency your money back. time, expertise and know-we're working on it." simply, there is no room for us would interfere with their Finally, the Administration is encouragement. The WVFI You were the stars of this on the dial. signal. There is currently no not at fault here. To the sur-executive board did a great project. When I hear that 
The area between 87.5 and place for a new FM station on prise of many students (and deal of grunt work and ND/SMC students just don't 
91.1 is reserved for this campus. even to the dismay of a few), brainstorming throughout the care, I remember the calls, the educational or "non­they are guilt-free. If anything, project, and they have been letters and the meetings I had commercial" stations like As I indicated previously, it is Father Rocca and Joe Cassidy optimistic (as much as they with a devoted public, some of WVFI, stations that provide a easy to misplace blame in the have been helpful to us could be, anyway) since April whom don't even care what public service in the eyes of face of failure. I would like to because they encouraged us to of 1991, when we took our we play, so long as we can be the Federal Communications address three fallacies that I pursue all of the possibilities first steps. heard. So I encourage you to Commission, and cannot have heard throughout the for improvement, and showed stay interested, and tune us in therefore accept any paid course of our endeavor. their interest in the project. Student Government and when you can. One day we advertising. Only commercial Firstly, we did not set our They demanded excellence HPC both passed resolutions might get there, even if it stations are allowed to operate sights too high in trying to and thorough research from in favor of the conversion, and means sailing a tugboat down on frequencies above this secure an FM license. The us, and it is partially because several members of HPC took the St. Joe's, with a micro-range. conversion to an AM of these demands that we their interest in the project phone, a stack of records and 
Even if we were to embark broadcast station (widely were able to unlock so many one step further by posting a banner that reads "WVFI pi­on the arduous and costly task regarded as "real AM," as op­doors in so short a time. We petitions in their dorms. The rate radio." As a good friend of becoming a commercial posed to the slightly more may not have won, but we left support that these signatures once told me, "Kev, everyone station, we would not be faulty carrier current system no stone unturned. indicated was remarkable. needs a lost cause... " legally allowed to broadcast, which characterizes WVFI at I will always be proud of the But perhaps the most heart-Kevin Flaherty as the University already the present time) is not worth fact that WVFI tried so very warming evidence of a student Station Manager, WVFI possesses its limit of the investment. It did not take commercial licenses a meeting with the powers­(television stations are that-be to determine that such 
hardto 1992
~~~it~s~~~~~~~b~o~d~~th~a~t~~r~o~v~e~diii~t~se~l~f~~~~~~~ii~Fe~b. 
considered in the count). a conversion would constitute Thus, we may apply for a "too much money for too little frequency on the low end only, gain." That was a WVFI deci­and an engineering study sion. revealed that only one is cur­The truth is that the cost rently open. Sadly enough, two would run almost as high as stations are already vying for that for FM, and the reception the privilege, and the cutoff would not be significantly im­date for new applications has proved. passed. Secondly, to correct a 
The most logical question at misconception that came to ~ this point is "What about all of my attention during our the places on the dial where student feedback program 
DOONESBURY 
r------------------------------,
I I I I 
I 9. You'~ dati!'lg a married fdtner C?f three with I 


'Love .1s war.
I pres•dentlaJ am17itlons. You 1:1eheve. that youJI and he. have a f'ut:Lire together. Explain. 

All is fair Valentine's Day.' 
James Taylor 
10. N.!trne three movies bes1des "Pretty Woman" that have helped shape. your per5011al philosophy. 

lfvalentine's can't buy her,submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint

Friday, February 14, 1992 page 11 
Parents are the key to greatness at Notre Dame 
"We never had a lot of money growing up ... But my parents always said we kids were going to have a college education... Then, when I was accepted at Notre Dame, that was like the biggest thing in their lives." 
With faces alive with love and admiration, this was just one of the many stories that had introduced me to the Notre Dame parent; someone I have come to appreciate as truly at the center of Notre Dame's greatness. 
After seven years of coming out each semester to lecture and mentor students one-on­one, I was still searching for words to respond to student questions about how the Notre Dame imprint was going to affect the rest of their lives. 
At first I thought, what a strange question. Wasn't it obvious? Look around. What a fantastic campus! What an outstanding faculty and administration! Or look back to a history of greatness ... Fr. Sorin, Fr. Hesburgh, Rockne, Fr. Nieuwland, Frank O'Malley! Wasn't it all quite obvious? 
But, the more I thought, what became obvious was that while these current and historical views might set the stage for this generation's Notre Dame, they would only be part of the answer. 
The next insight came in class from the students. I posed the question this way. "Suppose you get up tomorrow morning and discover all the buildings and facilities are gone, somehow disappeared. The residence halls, buildings that held your classes, the church where you prayed; even such revered symbols as the Dome had vaporized. You and all your fellow students awoke to find yourselves standing in the middle of a barren Indiana field. The question. Would Notre Dame still exist?" 
In the over ten times I have used this question, the answer comes fast and is always the same. Yes, Notre Dame would exist because Notre Dame is not resident in the structures or the practices of this University but rather really found in the student. . . more specifically in the way student to student relationships challenge, support, negotiate, threaten and love a transition that takes a freshman who must receive to survive to the able senior who must give to be fulfilled. 
Now I finally had it. It was the way we structured the academic and social challenges over these four years that enabled the in­terrelationship between the students to create this indelible imprint. What a great answer. 
Immediately, one of the out­standing columns to appear in The Observer by a then sopho­more John O'Brien came to mind. John related that as a freshman his roommate had returned home and how he felt lost until a group of juniors took him under their wing. As this friendship grew so did his comfort and happiness. 
Now, however, it was the end of his sophomore year and these friends were about to graduate. Joy again turned to pain as he faced another loss, until he realized that maybe now it was his turn to reach out to wipe out another's loneliness with his friendship. 

Richard J. Huether 
Guest Columnist 
Wasn't this what we were all about? Didn't this prove the conclusion? 
What a great answer. Everything seemed to be fitting in place. The student one-on-one meetings that evening flew by and continued to support the conclusion. After all weren't these one of those structured challenges that contributed to the transition of the freshman "taker" to the senior "giver"? 
Things were really starting to fit together and I felt terrific. It wasn't until I laid down in one of those beds at the Morris Inn where the window frames the Dome against the night sky and stared up at this golden image, searching for affirmation, that my well intentioned conclusions began to unravel. Rather that finding the peace of an exhausting and fruitful day, the other shoe dropped. 
Most of the students I had been reaching had generally been there just a little over one· year. They were still getting their feet wet, but their actions and answers reflected an understanding of what we called Notre Dame that seemed to represent four years of experience. How could that be? 
Only one answer seemed to remain. They had brought this greatness with them. Could it be that that which we call Notre Dame is a reflection of those qualities that had been taught, disciplined, praised, scolded and loved into these young men and women long before we had ever met them. 
And that which we call 

Notre Dame in simplest terms is a process by which we exercise, enrich and hopefully celebrate these qualities in a very special way. And, that our ability to draw students together that are best able to learn from one another and to surround them with challenge and support that ignites the magic of these infused dreams, and plays them out on a most magnificent stage represents our stewardship of this gift called Notre Dame. 
If so, is that not further affir­mation that it is the parents that history must accord the mantle of providing the key ingredient to the greatness achieved here. 
In each of the 450 plus student one-on-one's I have participated in, there would always be at least one moment where the depth of this family presence expressed itself. Not surprising was that the students were looking to copy that vision in their own lives. 
One of the most beautiful came a few semesters ago when a business major confided that each day she had a growing sense that her place was to return to the native American village of her grandparents to help that community build a better life. It had been only the previous semester that a lad had made a similar commitment to his family's village on the Mexican border. 
Then, it was to share the beauty of a student who feared that he would miss being able to pass on the cohesiveness that had been shared by a family of modest means who had taken the time to understand and celebrate the empowerment of acquiring their frrst car, first house and of course sending the first ofT­spring for a college education. 
The reason. . . .he had just signed an employment contract that would put enough money in his pocket to compress a lifetime of goals into an instant. How was he to preserve and recreate the memories and culture he cherished for his family? 
It was just last semester when a young -woman confided that though she was very pleased with the selection of her major and was doing very well in her course work, each day she was becoming more attracted to the role of wife and mother that (you guessed it) her mother had played in her family's life. 
Adding a sense of order, pri­ority, empowerment from their family experiences, however, usually manifested itself in less dramatic ways. Observations on concern, dedication, effort, un­derstanding, patience, care, hope and love were only to­begin the list of razor sharp imprints students carried as family-based tools that were forming the foundation for their life decisions. 
About this time I couldn't help but stop and think about those pre-teen pictures dotting The Observer birthday vignettes that had become such a daily part of this newspaper. Maybe they were doing more than celebrating the durability of this family love. Maybe they also served to rechallenge those blessed with student care with the depth of parental challenge to and belief in this Notre Dame. 
Richard Huether graduated from Notre Dame in 1955. He currently lives in Schenectady, New York. 
Just why is it that Americans love conspiracy theories? 
After seeing Oliver Stone's "JFK" the other day, a group of us decided to go lubricate our brains with a cup or two of the high-viscosity espresso they serve over at Dalloway's coffeehouse. As we savored the bitter brew, we tried to figure out why Americans love conspiracy theories so much. Since one of us was an American, he started expostulating on how there was this conspiracy to get people to believe in conspiracy theories. 
"How do you figure?" I asked, biting into a corn muffin. 
"People are basically smart," George reasoned. "And so they tend to question things. Now the guys making 7-figure salaries don't want a lot of questions asked. So they invent some kind of intrigue to send people off on a wild­goose chase." 
Jocelyn had just come back from asking the guitar player if she knew the words to the Phil Ochs classic, "Love Me, I'm a Liberal." "So what you're telling us," Jocelyn said, "is that the CEO's of the world would rather have us wondering who killed JFK or whether Elvis is alive than wondering why there are homeless people when you've got these other people buyfng yachts with the interest their money makes." 
"Exactly," George said. 
"That's a pretty compelling theory," I offered, breaking an important rule of etiquette by talking with my mouth full of corn muffin. "But, you know, there's a lot of compelling evi­dence to support some of these theories. Do you know how many people in Arkansas alone claim to have seen Elvis Presley in the last four months? In fact-" 
"Wait a minute," our group's most politically active member, Dex, interrupted. "It's the exact opposite of what George is saying. Most of your major conspiracy theories show how people with power are the ones ruling this country. Take the October surprise theory. A handful of powerful Republicans prolonging the suffering of American hostages just so they can get their man in office." 
"Or how about that theory which links the savings and loan crisis to the CIA's at­tempts to fund the Contras," Jocelyn put in. "That's well­documented. Or the one about the CIA selling drugs in the 


Andrew Cutrofello 
Subterranean Homesick 
Politics 
ghettoes." 
"Right," Dex agreed. "Or for that matter, Oliver Stone's speculation about who killed President Kennedy. In each case, what you've got is a con­spiracy theory designed to ex­pose the fact that we don't re­ally live in a democracy. That kind of thing should get people thinking." 
Washing down my muffin with a sip of espresso, I nodded in appreciation of Dex's argument. "So what you're saying, Dex, is that Elvis really might be alive and the authorities don't want us to know about it," I concluded, shrewdly drawing out the implications of Dex's theory. 
Jocelyn asked, "George, what do you think of Dex's theory?" 
"Well," George mused, "I agree that most conspiracy theories do try to show the un­derbelly of our supposedly democratiC way of life. I just don't think they accomplish a whole lot." 
"That may be true," Dex admitted, applauding the guitar player, who had just finished an acoustic version of the Dead Kennedys' "Stars and Stripes of Corruption." 

"I'll tell you what I think," Jocelyn said. "I think that Americans believe in conspiracy theories because they're the legitimating narratives of our postmodern society." 
"What do you mean?" George asked. 
Jocelyn gulped down the dregs of her espresso. "Conspiracy theories are like bedtime stories. They comfort us, and we want to hear them over and over." 
"But most people don't really believe in them," George put in. "I mean, how many people really believe what Oliver Stone is telling them? For that matter, how many people really take seriously the idea that Elvis is alive and working for the government on some top-secret mission involving UFO's?" 
Before I could address that last remark, Dex spoke up. 
"Jocelyn, are you saying that Americans are comforted by the thought that our society is ruled by a bunch of rich people who manipulate everything behind the scenes?" 
"I know it's a depressing thought," Jocelyn acknowl­edged, "but how else do you explain the tremendous fascination that we all have for conspiracy theories?" 
Coaxing corn muffrn crumbs out of my beard thoughtfully, I commented, "Yeah, I see your point, Jocelyn." 
"Maybe we're just drawn to conspiracy theories in the same way that we're fascinated by grizzly murder trials," George suggested. 
"Could be," Jocelyn agreed. "But Dex is right-we have to take conspiracy theories seri­ously. Whatever their psychic role might be in our collective unconscious, they do invite us to question the rhetoric of American democratic politics. And that's important. On the other hand, you're right, George-conspiracy theories can simply distract us. They make us feel like we're involved politically when we're not." 
The guitar player was starting her second set. Dex and George got up to get us all some more espresso. 
When we were alone, I gave Jocelyn a conspiratorial look. 
Sotto voce, I asked, "So I guess you think Elvis is alive too, huh?" 
Andrew Cutrofello is a professor of philosophy at Saint Mary's College. His columns appear every other Friday. 







ove o 
a 
Destroying the myths of interracial dating 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
J 
essica was warned. 

When she arrived at 
Notre Dame, up­
perclassmen told her to 
stay away from football players. "I'd never contemplated dating someone of a different race," she says. Jessica met Chris in the beginning of August, but it wasn't until the graffiti dance that they had a conversation. 
"We were friends for a couple months," Jessica explains. "I never thought about it (a ro­mantic relationship). I was in a relationship with someone at home." They took walks to­gether, talked in the 24-hour lounge, and wished each other luck before their respective sporting events. They ran into each other at the bars when they were with their friends. 
Mter the Purdue game, Chris asked Jessica to go out with him. After their date, Chris had to make sure Jessica knew what she was getting into. In the parking lot, Jessica, who is white, has a memory of him saying, "I •have to ask you a question. Do you realize I'm half black?" 
Interracial relationships are not a principal issue on campus, according to Iris Outlaw, director of the Office of Minority Affairs. College information books tend to focus on activities and clubs available to students, not on the relationships. 
Outlaw recognizes that interracial dating is a controversial subject in our society and says that it "leads to weakening between male/female relations within races." With the limited number of minorities on campus, it is inevitable that dating outside of one's race is going to occur. Outlaw says. She says "to be with whoever is going to treat you right." 
Jessica "consider(s) herself lucky." She decided the best way to let her parentsknow about her relationship with Chris was to introduce him to them. Her mother met Chris first and "fell in love with him." Although her father was initially against his daughter dating any football player, after spending time with Chris, he "complimented him (Chris) and said he had a good head on his shoulders," Jessica recalls. 
Not all couples are readily accepted. Since his sophomore year in high school, Jose could not pick up his girlfriend, Mon­ica, from her house. "She was forbidden to see me," Jose says. "As far as her parents knew, we were never going out." They had been seeing each other off and on during vacations, and only recently broke up before his senior year at Notre Dame. 
Jose is Hispanic and his ex­girlfriend is white. Their mutual friends "weren't affected by the relationship," but Jose has yet to speak to Monica's parents. Jose says, "It's okay to be friends, but it's different when it's coming close to home," when describing how Monica's parents accepted her Hispanic male friends. 
Tina's parents ignore her partner as well. They know Chris and like him very much, but when it comes to her own black boyfriend, Cyrus, it is a weak spot in their family relationship, to say the least. 
"They threatened to take me out of school," she relates. Her parents knew about their friend­ship and warned Tina not to let it evolve into romance when she brought up the idea. 
c 
yrus and. Tina have 
been datlng for a year, 
and "if it ever came 
down to it, I couldn't have both (family and Cyrus)," she sighs. She prefers not to look that far ahead and states simply, "We're going to keep going out until we stop liking each other." 
Acceptance from both family and friends has to do with how the individuals involved are raised, Outlaw says. Friendships are usually okay until they turn serious, then the automatic question is "What about the children?" If forced to make a generalization, Outlaw says "acceptance is easier for people of color. It might be due to how we're raised, to judge based on qualities." The tendency for people to date outside their race 
ready to accept it. 

is diminished "if they are off into their culture," she adds. 
"It's a shame that people look down on it," Cyrus says. "I was brought up where color doesn't matter." 
For Willie, dating someone o another race is not novel. He says the first woman of color he went out with was in kindergarten or the first grade, so he has never had reservations about dating them. "It's hard enough to find someone you like without putting restrictions on who you can like," he says. 
The very term "interracial dating" sounds unusual to Willie and he prefers to consider his dates in terms of individuality, not race. At home in Fort Wayne, Ind., he didn't encounter any problems with his family, friends, or girlfriends. In college, it's been a different story. 
"ND is the kind of place where they won't say things to your face, they'll say them behind your back," Willie says, recalling a particular incident. During his 


Friday, February 14, 1992 
World War II invades daily life at Notre Dame 

By LISA EATON 
Managing Editor 
"In other words, the purpose of Notre Dame is to teach men not only how to make a living, but also how to live... Comple­menting this philosophical background is a tradition of patriotism of which we are equally jealous. In war, as in peace, Notre Dame has always contributed without reserve to causes best suited to furthering American democ­racy.... When the United States entered World War I, Notre Dame was celebrating her Diamond Jubilee, and World War /1 found us on the very eve of our Centenary Year. In each instance, Notre Dame set aside the projects she had in mind in order to devote all her facilities to her patriotic duty. n 
-University President Fr. J. Hugh O'Donnell in an address to V-12 trainees, May 27, 1943. 
On Dec. 11, 1939, it was an­nounced that University Presi­dent Father John O'Hara had been appointed bishop and was to serve as a military dele­gate for the armed forces of the United States. The an­nouncement did not come as a surprise to faculty and students who largely regarded him as the perfect man for the post due to his zeal and dedication to work. This was the first of many events that would involve Notre Dame and its students in the war effort over the next six years. 
Prior to the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941, the Notre Dame campus consisted of 3,300 undergraduate, graduate and law students who received instruction from 313 lay and religious faculty members. The general attitude at Notre Dame, in respect to the war, was one of detached interest. John Gilligan, '43, said in "Reflections in the Dome," "The week that I came to Notre Dame as a freshman in September of 1939, France and England declared war on Germany. And no one at that time, neither my friends, nor my parents, nor my teachers, appeared to grasp the signifi­cance of what had happened and what was about to hap­pen." 


"Colonel McCormick and the Chicago Tribune reassured us daily that the war in Europe was no concern of ours, and that we should steadfastly keep America First. My memory of those first months at Notre Dame is not that we were far removed from the real world and the war...but rather that the war was simply unreal..." said Gilligan. 

In November, 1940, Father 
J. Hugh O'Donnell (acting as president for O'Hara until1941 when he officially was named to the office) offered Notre Dame's facilities to the military because American involvement in the European war seemed to be only a matter of time. The Army turned down the offer due in large part to a shortage of officers; the Navy, however, jumped at the offer. 
The first units of Naval Re­serve Officers' Training Corps (NROTC) was installed at Notre Dame in September. 1941. The 165 NROTC students at Notre Dame in the fall of 1941 com­prised less than 10 percent of the total student body, but that would not last long. It was often said by visitors to the University that, "The set-up at Notre Dame is the nearest ap­proach to the Naval Academy at Annapolis." 
O'Donnell agreed to grant the Navy access to the University's housing, dining, recreational, laundry and administrative facilities. It was also agreed that Notre Dame would help in the financing and construction of the Naval Drill Hall and a classroom and office building for the use of NROTC and V-7 units. 
When the attack on Pearl Harbor occurred on D.ec. 7, 1941, the entire attitude of the University changed. Suddenly, the war yvas taken very seri­ously by everyone. "Our lives could hardly have been changed more abruptly if the bombs which disemboweled the Arizona and her sister ships had torn instead into the Administration Building and smashed the Golden Dome to 
see WAR I page 2 



Glory Years 
1940-1965 
Much needed library constructed 
By MEREDITH This need for a larger, more that time, "Our academic MCCULLOUGH complete library was filled on space is no less than desperate Assistant News Editor September 18, 1963 with the on every front. Both our faculty opening of the Notre Dame and student body cram every Memorial Library, later re­nook and corner and corridor 
"With the largest enrollment named in honor of Hesburgh. for study space and many of in its history as well as Until the new building's com­the books we have are either stepped-up academic stan­pletion in 1963, students and unavailable or unattractivelydards, Notre Dame has actu­faculty relied upon the modest crammed into whatever pigeon ally outgrown its 43-year-old facilities of Lemonnier Library holes can be found." library," announced the Uni­.While Lemonnier adequately The Memorial Library could versity's Office of Public Infor­served its function upon its seat at least 2,900 peoplemation in 1960. construction in 1917 for a stu­(more than half of the student 
"The present library dent body of 1,200 and no body) and would provide office 
(Lemonnier Library, currently graduate school, by 1960 the space in the basement for 248 the Architecture Building) is library had failed to keep up faculty members. filled to capacity with nearly with the University's rapid Although more space was in­
400,000 books and is com­growth. The over 6,000 under­deed a consideration, the new pletely out of date for today's graduates, 700 graduate stu­library also promised modern (1960) Notre Dame," explained dents, and 500 full-time faculty facilities and more extensive Father Theodore Hesburgh, found the small library rather collections which could 
University president at the limited. time. According to Hesburgh at see LIBRARY I page 2 

150 YEARS of Notre Dame 
·:.,:.,-<:,..,:.....,, 

-.......,......_ -:.·., 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Archives 
The mosaic for the Hesburgh Library was revealed to members of the Notre Dame Administration before 
page 2 
Library 
continued from page 1 broaden students scope of reading and make serious research endeavors possible, said Professor John Frederick in 1960. "I have full confidence that the new Notre Dame library building will be one of the one of the best in the world," said Frederick before the new li­brary was built. "The plans for the Notre Dame library, which include the most advanced conceptions of the library's functions, and provide for ade­quate working space and facili­ties for many students and many scholars, are wholly sound." Two years and eight million dollars after construction be­gan, Notre Dame celebrated its 122 year academic anniversary by opening the new building. With its thirteen floors and two million volume capacity, the Memorial Library was believed to be the largest college library in the world, according to Notre Dame Public Relations and Information. The massive new library was designed by Ellerbe Architects of St. Paul, Minnesota. Only 15 feet shorter than the golden dome of the Administration Building, the 180 foot library is made of Mankato stone, buff brick, marble and granite. At the top of the tower Has­burgh inscribed, "May the 
Friday, February 14, 1992 
and installed by Cold Spring Granite Company of Minnesota. A new way of working had to be created in order to success­fully complete the mosaic. 
Not only did the dedication events on May 7 celebrate the construction of the Memorial Library, but it honored those individuals whose financial generosity made the eight mil­lion dollar project possible. 
When the Ford Foundation granted Notre Dame a grant of six million dollars in 1960, it was under the condition that the University would raise an additional 12 million dollars on its own from other sources within three years. 
This otTer pushed the Univer­sity to instigate a major fund raising campaign. Among other endeavors, part of the money was used to build the new library. 
In an effort to gain funds for construction, Hesburgh called upon the entire Notre Dame community. "Trustees, Council members, alumni and non­alumni friends, faculty and stu­dents-all must help to make this dream come true,n he said. 
More than 23,000 individuals and organizations contributed to the cause. The names of these benefactors are inscribed in the library's foyer. 
The Memorial Library was designed to be "the academic heart of the university, 
n 
according to Hesburgh. It is "destined to become a real center of excellence in higher learning in the very heartland of America, n he said. 

War 
continued from page 1 rubble," said Gilligan. The enrollment in the NROTC program increased rapidly. The first group of NROTC students organized at Notre Dame consisted entirely of Notre Dame students whose training was scheduled to take place during the regular four­year college term. 
On April 15, 1942, the Mid­shipmen School was formed and the V-7 units came into ex­istence. This group consisted of men who had already graduated from other colleges. One group of these men were scheduled for a four-month training period to be deck offi­cers. 
Throughout the duration of the war, approximately 1000 men were commissioned into the Navy every four months. Also in the Midshipmen School were those being trained for special tasks who remained at 
Notre  Dame  for  only  two  
months.  
In  July,  1943,  the  V-12  
trainees  arrived  at  Notre  

Dame. These men came from a more diverse background than the other trainees. Many had already graduated from col­lege, had served in the armed forces or were freshmen. The focus of V-12 was largely fur­ther undergraduate study in mathematics and physics. The V-12 program was one of the largest in the country with a total of 1,850 Navy, Marine, and Coast Guard reserve officer candidates until it was reduced by 40 percent in November, 1944. 
By 1943, the University's en-
This is the sixth of eight special 
Editor: Andrew McCloskey 

Sesquicentennial sections 
Illustrations: Jake Frost, 

commemorating 150 years of 
Steve Duenas 

Notre Dame. 

Production: Jay Colucci 

The Observer would like to thank Charles Lamb and the staff at Notre Dame Archives for all their assistance with this section . 
rollment had dropped to 2,675 
students. Out of that group 
1, 7 43 were affiliated with ei­
ther the NROTC unit or the V­
12 trainee program. The Uni­
versity's enrollment dropped to 
its lowest point in 1945 when 
there were a total of 1,749 stu­
dents, both civilian and naval, 
attending Notre Dame. 
Although the exact numbers have never been released by the Navy, former University archivist Fr. Thomas McAvoy estimated a total of 11,925 navy men had completed their officers' training at Notre Dame between 1942 and 1946. 
In addition to lending its fa­cilities to the Navy, the Univer­sity made many more sacrifices to accommodate the military forces on campus. Notre Dame lent the services of its priests and faculty. Twenty-five lay faculty members and seven Holy Cross priests took leave of absences to serve in the armed forces and left for either Europe or the Pacific. 
Students living in Alumni, Dillon, Cavanaugh and Zahm halls were forced to move out of their dorms in January 1942 in order to accommodate the ·1,000 V-12 trainees soon to be coming to Notre Dame. The traditional family-style meals were replaced in the dining hall by quicker and more efficient cafeteria-style meals. 
"Not only were we now crowded into halls in which the occupancy level had been doubled overnight so that we were now... sleeping in government issue double bunks, but the familiar family­style service at meals was gone, and we began lining up to get our food which was presented to us on Army-style metal trays," said Gilligan. 


The University also acceler­ated the undergraduate degree program in order to allow those in the military to finish their degrees before they were called to fight. Instead of the standard four years of college, undergraduates could receive their diplomas in two and three-quarters years because summer vacations were elimi­nated. After completing eight terms, an undergraduate would receive his degree at a quarterly convocation ceremony held in Washington Hall. 
In order to help the V-12 trainees receive the mathemat­ics training they needed, Math Department Chairman Dr. Karl Menger, in addition to his regular course load, taught an extra class in high school mathematics so that the trainees would be able to complete their coursework. 

All the students had to sacri­fice when, in April 1943, dining hall manager E.R. Connolly reduced the quantity of food served by 40 percent in to order to accommodate wartime shortages, 
Furthermore, Notre Dame was scheduled to celebrate its centennial anniversary in 1942, but the outbreak of war successfully sidetracked most of the plans. The celebration was carried on in a much less grandiose manner than was originally planned. 
Not long after the United States entered the war did the list of casualties start including names of former Notre Dame students. Their names were in­scribed on a plaque in Sacred Heart and mass was said for them daily. A total of 333 alumni and students of Notre Dame lost their lives during the war. This number does not reflect the many naval trainees and members of the Midship­men School who also lost their lives in the war. 
Notre Dame's commitment to educating its students and do­ing whatever possible to aid American war efforts undoubt­edly made for a few chaotic and trying years. At the moment when the University was set for a grand a celebration of its first 100 years, it was called upon to sacrifice its time, facilities, teachers and students for the American cause. Despite the sacrifices and loss, Notre Dame never swerved in its commitment and loyalty to the furthering American effort towards democracy around the world. 
being place on the south side of the Library. 
Blessed Mother bless us as with her wonderful Child." 
The first and second floors, each two acres across, devoted specifically to those volumes most often used by undergrad­uate students, while the other floors held those usually used by graduate students and fac­ulty for research purposes. 
In addition to its regular col­lections, the library also held the University Archives, Me­dieval Institute, Jacques Mari­tian Center, and Committee in International Relations. 
A rare book room, 300-seat auditorium, and glass-enclosed, roof top President's Lounge also found a place in the new building. For the most part, these facilities still exist today though they have expanded significantly. 
With religious rights and elaborate ceremonies, the new Memorial Library was formally dedicated on May 7, 1964. Ap­proximately 5,000 people were in attendance. 
It was at this time that the huge granite mural adorning the south side of the building was unveiled to the public. 
Standing 132 feet high (from the third to thirteenth story) and 65 feet wide, "The Word of Life" depicts "Christ the Teacher" with outstretched arms surrounded by apostles, saints, and scholars. 
The artist, Millard Sheets of Claremont, California designed the mosaic to be built out of 81 kinds of granite and 171 different finishes from 16 countries and several U.S. States, according to Notre Dame Public Relations and Information. Sheets received an honorary degree for his work. 

"The Word of Life" is com­prised of 7,000 pieces of gran­ite-the nine foot Head of Christ consists of 115 pieces. The different shades and tex­tures of the piece create an ef­fect in which rays of light seem to glide across the mural as sunlight and the atmosphere changes. 
The granite was assembled 

150 YEARS af Notre Da~:------------1 
Friday, February 14, 1992 page3 


National Championship. Angelo Bertelli awarded Heisman Trophy. 

ND sets up Naval ROTC. 
The Glory Years 
. . ·.,·. '·'':. ··:.:-· t ~4EID-l ~({)@ . · ·· 
·.· .· . . ..• 
.... ~ ·.. •' .: . 



students. Vetville created. 
representative to Atomic Energy Commission 
Brothers of Holy Cross become separate entity from Priests of Holy Cross. 
championship in 10e,cac1e behind Heisman Leon Hart. 
Center for Continuing Education built. 

lc::<=>...,nnrl consecutive 'N"'''n"'"'' Championship. Lujack wins Heiman.  •  
Dr. Thomas  
Dooley dies in Southeast Asia  

Edward Malloy graduates from Notre Dame. 
North Dining Hall built. 


150 YEARS of Notre Dame 
page 4 Friday, February 14, 1992 


The Leahy Years 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Archives Notre Dame football coach Frank Leahy lead the Irish to five National Championships during his ten years as a coach at Notre Dame. While serving as coach four of his players won Heisman trophies. Pictured clockwise from top left: Angelo Bertelli, 1943; Frank Leahy; John Lujack, 1947; Leon Hart, 1949; John Lattner, 1953. 
National championships, Heismans chal'actel'ize Leahy coaching Bl'a 
BY RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 
In the annals of Notre Dame sports history, Jan. 31, 1954 will be remembered as the end of one of the most successful eras in all of sports, for it was on this day that Frank Leahy announced his resignation as head football coach of the Fighting Irish. 
In a time in which the world was at odds, Notre Dame football experienced some of its greatest seasons under the guidance and leadership of Leahy. 
Leahy, a 1931 graduate of Notre Dame and a tackle on Knute Rockne's last three Irish squads, returned to his alma mater to coach in 1941. 
After two seasons as head coach of Boston College he compiled a 20-2 record, capping his tenure off with a
• 
victory in the 1941 Sugar Bowl. His accomplishments at Notre Dame were to be far more illustrious. 
It was Rockne who played the prominent role in starting Leahy's career in coaching. Following a knee operation performed at Rockne's suggestion at the Mayo Clinic, Leahy spent time rehabilitating with Rockne, who was at the Clinic for treatment on his leg, and the two shared a room together. 
During this time, Leahy spent countless hours talking football with Rockne, gaining immeasurable knowledge from one of the greatest coaches in history and deciding on coaching as a career. 
Upon returning to Notre Dame, Rockne managed to secure a job for Leahy at Georgetown. From there Leahy went to Michigan State and Fordham before gaining a head coaching position at B.C. His return to Notre Dame brought Leahy full circle, back to fill the shoes of the 
Riding a 17-game unbeaten 
streak, the Irish were not about to 
rest on their laurels. Leahy guided 
the 1948 squad to a 9-0-1 record, 
suffering a season-ending tie at USC, 
14-14. 

The team finished second to Michi­
gan that year, but reclaimed the top 
spot in the poll the following season, 
going 10-0 and winning the national 
title for the third time in four years. 
It was the fourth AP title for Leahy 
and the Irish in the 1940s, marking 
the end of a decade of Irish 
dominance. 
The 1950s started out slowly for Leahy, with the Irish struggling to a 4-4-1 record in 1950 and following it with consecutive 7-2-1 seasons. The 1952 mark was good enough for a third-place AP finish. 
In 1953, which would be Leahy's final season as head coach, the resurgent Irish pounded their way to a 9-0-1 mark, finishing second in the AP and UPI polls, but first in all others, giving Leahy five national titles for his career. 
The lone tie came in another classic Irish contest, this time against Iowa, as the Irish staged a remarkable comeback, scoring with six seconds left in the game to force the 14-14 deadlock. 
Leahy retired as one of the most successful coaches in college football history. He finished his career win 87 wins, 11 losses, and nine ties, good for an .885 winning percentage. His teams finished atop various polls five times, and compiled a 29-2-1 record in games in which they were ranked number one. 
Leahy was selected to the National Football Foundation Hall of Fame in 1970. Memoirs of the successes of his teams can be found in Heritage Hall of the JACC, just a few reminders of the tremendous legacy that Frank Leahy left at Notre Dame. 
man who taught him all the finer aspects of coaching. 
From the opening day of his first spring practice in March, 1941, success seemed destined to walk hand-in-hand with Leahy. A swarm of reporters was on hand to cover the early warm-ups, the beginning of a spotlight that would follow Leahy's career at Notre Dame, increasing in its intensity with each passing year. 
In his rookie season Leahy guided the Irish to an 8-0-1 mark. A 0-0 tie with Army being the only flaw to the season. The Irish finished that season ranked third in the country by the Associated Press, and Leahy was named the American Football Coaches Association Coach of the Year. It would be the frrst in a long list of accomplishments for the coach and his team. 
Amid the disruption of World War II, Leahy's 1942 squad slipped to 7­2-2, a respectable season for most schools, but given the legacy of Notre Dame, it was a setback from the previous year. However, it was good enough for a sixth-place final ranking upon which Leahy would improve the following season. 
With remarkable efficiency, the Irish obliterated their first eight opponents during the 1943 campaign, outscoring their adversaries by a 312-37 margin and recording four shutouts. Ranked number one, the Irish faced their first real test in the ninth week, facing Iowa Pre-Flight, the number­two team in the country. 
Playing at home, the Irish struggled in a hard-fought contest, but hung on to escape with a 14-13 victory and their ranking intact. In the season's final contest, the Irish claimed a 14-13 lead against Great Lakes with 60 seconds remaining, but a long pass play for a score doomed the team to the losing end of a 19-14 score. Even with the loss, the 9-1 Irish captured Leahy's first national championship. 

In 1944, Leahy was commissioned in the Navy, a post to which he devoted two years. He was stationed at the Pacific Submarine Command as a rehabilitation officer, where he remained for ten months during World War II. From there, he returned to the United States, this time assuming the position of battalion officer at the St. Mary's navy pre-flight school. 
In November, 1945, one of the greatest coaches in the country was discharged from the Navy with the rank of lieutenant, and returned to the university he had departed from over a year earlier. During Leahy's absence, the Irish recorded 8-2 and 7-2-1 seasons, respectively, each time finishing the season ranked ninth. 
From 1946-49, Leahy's squads would compile one of the greatest four-year records in the history of college football, sporting a 39-game unbeaten streak that would stretch into the first game of the 1950 season. 
To start things off, the Irish went 8-0-1 in 1946, with a 0-0 tie again coming against Army. Army was coming off consecutive national championship seasons, but the tandem of Doc Blanchard and Glenn Davis, both of whom would win Heisman trophies, could not punch the ball into the endzone before a capacity crowd at Yankee Stadium in New York. 
In outscoring its opponents by an astonishing 271-24 and recording five shutouts, the Irish claimed their second national title of the decade for Leahy. 1947 produced more of the same results, with an unbeaten season (9-0) and a second­consecutive national championship for Notre Dame. 

--------------------------------~----------------------------------------------~ 
13 





eren 

ree 

"It's not fair to "I really don't 
judge who dates think it's what 
who and why. Most people call 
of the problems are "normal," but 
with other people, people find love 
not with the couple. in strange 
I feel that when places. It's a 
you're dating part of our 
someone, it shouldn't matter

Scott Chando society." 
Lamar Justice Junior 
Freshman what race they Flanner Hall 
Dillon Hall are." 


freshman year, a girl from home came to visit him. She happened to be black, and the reaction from his friends bothered him. 
Friends are the not the only ones to harass interracial couples at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's-strangers have done it, too. Jessica shares "the worst experience" Chris had one time while he was visiting a fellow teain member. 
"Two black girls stopped him in the hallway and said they were shopping at the mall and thought they'd get him some­thing. Then they said they couldn't buy something for someone who likes to ski," she recalls. The two women clarified their point by calling him "someone who likes to play in the snow." Jessica herself has been harassed and called names. Chris "got letters saying his mom was white trash and he was making me white trash," he says. 
Tina says at school, "people respect Cyrus enough not to say anything" except for a skit in a 
Students raise questions about interracial relationships 
By Shonda Wilson of mending will bring with it Assistant Accent Editor a sense of unity [among 
African Americans] so that We've got Jungle Fever we are better able to accept We're in love one another and appreciate She's gone black boy crazy what we have to offer to each He's gone white girl hazy other," Jackson says. 
S 
There's no saying maybe Interracial relationships We're in love can also be harmful once -Stevie Wonder. "Jungle marriage and children are Fever» factored into the equation, according to Heard. The pike Lee's movie problems that a mixed child "Jungle Fever," faces can be quite brought to light the devastating, she adds. "I problems that would hate for them (my modern society has children) to have to go with the issue of interracial through that," she says. dating, despite attempts at "If we lived in a more public integration. Even on a perfect world," says Heard, "I day like today-a holiday wouldn't have a problem with celebrating love-some ND it. But since we live in the students are resistant to world we live in, it's better for interracial relationships. me not to" date interracially, 
According to senior Stacey says Heard. 
Jackson, "If two people are Both students felt that they mature and really care about would feel more comfortable one another, then I don't have with a mate who was racially a problem with" interracial compatible with them. relationships. In general, "Because blacks share however, "I don't see that qualities that only blacks happening [on campus]. I see could possess [because of them approaching one their similar experiences], I another out of a curiosity would feel more compatible 
which is based on with a black man," says Jack­stereotypes. That's not good, son. "she says. "Of course, there are differ­
Senior Holly Heard also ences within the black does not necessarily disagree community, but certain with interracial romantic understandings come with relationships, but she does likenesses." As a fellow feel that different races African-American he would coming together places a "know what it was like to be burden on the relationship. seen as a skin color, would As an African-American know what it was like to have who has dated a white man, others assume that he got Heard felt that her into a college for reasons relationship did not work other than his merits. Even because "he couldn't deal certain aspects of history with the pressure (from his mean more to us; Civil Rights family)." would not be just a chapter, 
"I was last on his list, and I its personal." didn't want that," says Heard. Jackson felt that interracial Because of her unfavorable relationship between experiences with interracial minorities would be more relationships, "I'm more acceptable tttat black-white wary of it," she remarks. relationships. "I would be 
Jackson felt that she would more open to that," says find it hard to date interra­Jackson, "because there is an cially. "I would resist [such a affinity between ethnic mi­match] because the positive norities. Although our experi­male role models in my life ences are not identical, they are black males. I know that I are separate from the Euro­don't need to look elsewhere culture. We are considered in my search for a mate." outside the group so it would 
According to Heard, from a be a little easier to bridge the societal view, she can see differences than those with problems that the African blacks with whites." American community would have with interracial dating Despite their unfavorable 
on campus. The "shortage of available African-American marriageable males" makes it understandable why African­American women would view interracial dating negatively, she says. They see it as "one less [man available] for me," she says. 
From the point of view of the African American community, "African Americans are still in the process of accepting them­selves because their psyche has been so abused and inundated with white standards [like] the European standard of beauty-we're just recovering from it, starting to mend," says Jack­son. 
"I believe that this process view of interracial relation­ships, both students have come across interracial relationships that seem to work. "In those cases, they're (the couple is) special. [They're] sufficiently aware of each others' society and cultures before they come together; therefore there is less of a barrier," says Heard. 
"[These relationships] work because two people come to understand their differences, rise above them and come to accept one another truthfully," says Jackson. They've gotten past the harmful curiosity and stereotypes that some of the relationships in "Jungle Fever" were made of. 
talent show last year. "I've heard they ripped on Cyrus for dating a white b--." she recalls. "I think it's the most low-class thing one can do. I don't think the school should allow things like that-it's [reverse] racism." 
s 
he does have one shared experience with Jessica and Chris, though. She says it perpetuates the myth that white women are dating black men for sex and not because they are compatible. The four of them were eating at a restaurant when they were approached by a black woman none of them knew. She called the men "f--stieks" and walked away. "We just blew it off," Tina says. 
Not all interracial relation­ships can withstand the pres­sure. Jose says that he and Monica broke up mostly because of their long-distance re­lationship and their lack of communication. In the begin­ning, "I was psyched, I thought this girl really likes me, she's risking her family," he says. "But then it got old. It was like one big lie." Although marriage was discussed, Jose knows her mother wouldn't accept him since she was very vocal in her disapproval. 
Willie hasn't thought much about marriage yet, to a par­ticular woman or at all. "When and if I get married, I'll get married to the person I love and want to be with for the rest of my life, not because she's 'x' color or 'y' color," he explains. He says that if he has children with a woman of color, he will raise them to have a "true education." "You teach a kid everything-the truth. Ignorance of not knowing about others breed's stereotypes," he added. 
Jessica, who is engaged, has a similar plan. She relates Chris' experience of never knowing his father and being raised by a white woman in a black neighborhood. "He'd go outside and be with his black friends, 
see DATING/page 14 

Friday, February, 14, 1992 The Observer 
When God lets bad things happen, why not scream like hell? 

When the Reverend William Sloane Coffin, formerly at Yale as the University Chaplain and presently pastor of Riverside Baptist in upper Manhattan, was morning the death of his son in a car crash, his Christian friends consoled him by saying it was God's will. 
Sloane answered angrily, "Like hell it was. When Jim died, God was the first one to weep." Should any father be ex­pected to believe that when his lad dies because he has chosen to speed drunkenly down a dangerously wet road, that death must have been im­mutably fated by Divine Providence? But God didn't kill Jim. Jim was responsible for his own death. 
God's "crime" was that He created Jim as a human being with free will. Should He have stood in the way of a 24-year old drinker, getting into the front seat of his car so that he could play Russian roulette with the road conditions? 
Should He have crowded Jim's life with minor miracles to save him from using his free will, or saving him from the consequences of his folly? Maybe God was the first one to feel anger over the senseless waste of a young life. 
Christians would be less docile in their acceptance of horror, if the Mother's milk they were weaned on had been liberally laced with raven's blood. Mter the war, some con­servative Jews put God on trial for not protecting His Chosen People from the Holocaust. From what I read in the papers, 
Dating 
continued from page 13 
but when be came inside he didn't use the slang," she explains. "I would never deny my child access to both cultures." 
Tina considers children a secondary decision to the big one-to wed in the first place. "I'm not a parent so I don't know (how I would raise them)," she says. Tina also stated, "Chris does not have a terrible life. I'd raise them like any other child." 
The students agreed that dating someone of another race bas been educational and would encourage someone to get into an interracial relationship, but only if their intentions are sincere. "I think it's been like any other relationship I've had," Jessica says. "I see him as a person, not a color," she adds. 
Outlaw does not rule out the curiosity factor and says that jungle fever, dating someone of another race simply because they are of another race, does happen. She emphasizes that it 
those Jews found God guilty as 
the Light that failed them. 
Eventually, I suppose, they renewed their covenant with Him as the only Lord there ever is, was, or can be. Did they for­give Him for His carelessness in allowing the 6,000,000 to die? Implicitly, in learning to trust and have faith in him again, they must have done so; but what do I know? 
Did He ask their forgiveness, or want it, or feel any need of it; or on His high plateau, does love mean not ever having to say you're sorry? For what lapse from graciousness to­wards us, do you think He might feel disposed to ask for Jewish forgiveness, or Christian forgiveness, or the forgiveness of the members of the rainbow colaition of religions in the world? 
It could be for the risk He takes in lavishly handing out the gift of free will to His crea­tures, even the ones tragically flawed as Nazis, pedophiles, and racists. Their sins, our sins, and the sins of our fathers have brought ruin in every direction on the planet that once was Eden. But the good news is that where sin abounds, grace does abound much more. 
If I were a scholar or able to keep my thinking cap on straight, I might be able to offer you an unimportant footnote on the Lord God's need for human forgiveness. But in their awareness of Him, even the great scholars are in the minor leagues, and I'm strictly little league; without His grace, I wouldn't have a league to stand 
is a phenomenon from both sides and often occurs when students go away to school. "When they're away, it's a chance for them to experi­ment," Outlaw says. Personally, she advises students to "be more concerned with the char­acter of the person, who they are in relation to who you are." 
Jessica encourages students to "create a new attitude" in­stead of being influenced by so­cietal attitudes. "You can't just read books, go beyond the li­brary and classrooms," she says. However, she recognizes "there are people it would de­stroy," who are not strong enough individuals to cope with the oppression. 
The issue of different shades of skin color complicates the interracial dating question. 
Jose says that "darker skin stands out," and those people seem to be more prone to be victims of racism."lt's kind of like how people wear different clothes," he expands. When someone walks into a store, a clerk might wait on someone wearing expensive clothes be­fore turning to someone else, he says. 
On the same token, Jessica 


HEY GUYS! 
CHECK ME OUT ON MY 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
on. 
If, as the beneficiary of trickle-down scholarship, I'm of a mind to believe that revelation shows us there's a plan in God's mind to redeem the world by love, I'm tempted. to complain that such a loving plan of redemption goes hard on the children of this world, since it forces so many to take their turns, stretched on a wheel of fire. 
Yet a glance at the crucifix tells us how sin left its scars on the flesh of God's Son. An. awareness of Christ's suffering does not take away our pain, but it fills it with His presence. 
Does God need our forgive­ness for allowing monsters their freedom of .will? I didn't invent the idea. I first found it mentioned in the literature for the Day of the Atonement, when the pious Jew asks God's for­giveness, and the forgiveness of his friends for the transgres­sions he has committed against them. 
The Jew in the story tells the Master of the Universe: "If you will forgive the sins I have committed against You this year, I will forgive the sins You have committed against me." 
Maybe Christian grief would be more healthy if we more willingly tempered it with anger, instead of sweet talking ourselves into believing that the 
says that Chris' color is over­looked because of who be is. She says being a football player "makes a huge difference, they almost become a different race." She pauses, adding, "But then, whites judge whites that way, too. People who make more money are judged differ­ently than people who make less money." 
Outlaw says that shade has nothing to do with acceptance. "If you're black, you're black," she says, adding, "Some people are status seekers, regardless of color." She recommends that above all, couples should "have a good time and enjoy each other's company. That's most importanL" 

horrors which overtake us are 
part of His great plan. 
Christians never sound more mealy-mouthed than when they are talking piously about the Will of god. It should be re­membered that God's will has an active and passive voice. Jim Coffin's death was not a tragedy God had marked down on his agenda; and when the accident happened He grieved, because He had better uses for a young man's life. 
Yet, foreseeing the death, God permitted it, because He under­stood that in a world that needs to be redeemed by love, crea­tures must be free to make dumb choices. Does He need our forgiveness for making the world so fine-tuned? Perhaps, He does, and that's not bad, since it could mean that His love for us permits us this op­tion. 
By now, the anthropomor­phisms could be killing you; and there must be lapses in logic and metaphysical awareness that you can drive a truck through. But, when I heard of Sloane Coffin's, "When Jim died, God was the first one to weep," I knew he was right; and I am still trying to find out why. 
Dante told us that "in His will is our peace ; " and we believe Dante, though His will is a mys­tery, and His peace is more like rrre and ice than it is oil spilled in troubled waters. 

Judaism seems to have a tradition of rabbis, sharp­tonged like Job, in carrying on their lover's quarrel with God: "Why did You allow yesterday's firebombing of the synagogue in Turkey? Why did You permit murderers to violate the Sabbath Day peace of the ser­vants who love and trust You? How long , 0 Lord, how long will You continue to endure the sight of tears on the faces of the children, left fatherless and orphans?" 
When students are killed or injured in an accident, does it occur to us as Christians that God hates the same things we hate: the loss of life and the suffering; the human error that may have caused the accident; or was it metal fatigue that caused the brakes to fail? 
The God-accusing rabbi might prostrate himself in reverence before asking the Lord why He couldn't have intervened. with a miracle reducing the metal fa­tigue, instead of holding Himself aloof on the principle that if you do it for one bus, You have to do it for all of them; and what good are the laws of causality if You have to keep re-routing them with miracles? 
The course of true love has never run smooth, even when the partnersare man and God. When God lets bad things happen, why not scream like hell? Would we serve Him better with the blind obedience that seems to assume that He's the co-conspirator of terrorists who blow airplanes out of the sky? 
My Dear 
I love you with all-a-my heart. IfI don't see you during JPW, I'm a-gonna die. 
Maineypants 


YOU'VE WORKED HARD IN COlLEGE. l.AW SCHOOL IS RIGHT AROUND THE CORNER, AND YOU DESERVE TO GET IN. ONLY 50% WHO APPLY MAKE IT. NOW IS THE TIME TO TAKE THE LSAT.. DON'T YOU THINK YOU SHOULD PREPARE 
I 0 STUDENTS PER CLA88 I 00 HOURS Of' LIVE INSTRUCTION 50 HOURS OF LIVE TUTORIAL NATIONAL 800 TELEPHONE HELPLINE 3 COMPUTER-SCORED DIAGNOSTIC TESTS SCIENCE FLASH CARDS MATERIALS WRITTEN BY PH.D.& 81 M.D.& 
EDUCATIOIAL GROUP 
US 31 North South Bend 273-1866 
• 

Welcome Parents, 
Happy Valentines Day, 
Best wishes for an enjoyable 
The Ronkin Educational Group
weekend! 
WE'LL MAKE SURE You MAKE IT. 
----------------------------~---------------------------------------­
'-• I•O' 'I l II t-.. 

Friday, February 14, 1992 The Observer 


The Observer acceptS classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314l.aFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's ollice, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day classifieds Is 3p.m. All classilieds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
USED TEXTBOOKS! Buy & Sell Books Pandora's Books 3 blks. from NO 233-2342/10-5:30 M-Sun 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082. 

LOST/FOUND 
LOST: IRISH GOLD RING IN THE HUDDLE. PLEASE CALL CLAUDINE IN DELl AT 239-5044. 
LOST: Pair of round-frame, prescription sunglasses-I can't ski/see without themII Please call x4980 
LOST -black Sharp calculator in Library auditorium on 217 call x1621 
LOST: FRESHWATER PEARL & GOLD BEAD BRACELET ON 217. CALL ANNE 234-1752. 
LOST: LADY'S BLACK SHEER SCARF WITH ROSES. TAKEN FROM BOOKBAG RACK IN HUDDLE. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. PLEASE CALL SHEILA AT 
255-7684 BEFORE 3 PM OR 
RETURN TO HUDDLE DELl. 
LOST GOLD FILIGREE HEART 
BRACELET OF GREAT 
SENTIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL KATARA W. @2965 IF 
FOUND. REWARD PENDING! 
LOST ONE GOLD FILIGREE 
HEART LINK BRACELET OF 
GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF 
FOUND OR YOU KNOW WHO 
HAS, PLEASE CALL KATARA W. @2965. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. 
REWARD PENDING! 
FOUND: 
Gold Ring in SDH on 2/9/92 
Call Marianne at x4174 
Alright, 
I still don't have my glasses, 
I've dropped my classes, 
And I'm starting to scam on 
fat Help me! 
Gold wire frame, black case. Dave, x2187 
FOUND: 
One gold medallion outside the Center for Social Concerns. Initials "KH" To claim, call Randy at X1301. 
LOSTII AT THE SOPHMORE FORMAL BLACK BRAEFER coat with the name Diggy on the nametag. Please call Becky at 284­4107. 
LOST: 2/8 Blue NO ID pouch with 
Fla driver license, ID, Detex, and 
keys. If found, PLEASE call Lynn 
x1260. 
LOST: 4 KEYS ON A SMC 
BOTTLE-OPENER KEYCHAIN 
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN ST. 
ED'S AND LEMANS HALL 
Christian 283-2742 
Lost: I left a pair of wool mittens with brown leather palms in Rm. 118 O'Shag and now they're gonell I really love these mittens and need to have them back. If you know anylhing about them. please call Kristine @ X3352. 
Found: Blue and green London Fog jacket in my car at the Commons on Monday nile (around 3 a.m.). If yours please call Nancy at 257­8534. 

WANTED 
WANTED: 5 TO 10 DEDICATED STUDENTS TO FILL THE MON.4-6; THURS.6-8; FRI.6-8, 8-10,AND10-12 EVENING SHIFTS FOR COUNSELINE. IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN PROVIDING THIS COMMUNITY SERVICE, CALL 239-7336 Going to Hartford, CT area for Spring Break? I need a ride. Will help w/ gas and tolls. Donna: 284-5191 
Need a ride to D.C. Met. area Will Split gas & tolls Call Bill at x4141 

FOR RENT 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
6-7 BEDROOM HOME.SECURITY ALARM.FURNISHED.WALK TO CAMPUS.FOR 1992-93.272-6306 
ROOM TO RENT. USE OF ALL UTILITIES/FACILITIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. NICE NEIGHBORHOOD & HOME. $225/MO. PAUL 232­2794. 

FOR SALE 

FENDER GUITAR AMP: Tube amp, for practice/performing, 2 inputs (high/low gain), tone, vibrato, exc. cond. 271-0138 
2 NITZEREBB CONCERT TIX 
THE VIC -CHICAGO DIE WARSAU OPENS 
7:30, FEB 16 (this Sun) 
RyM X1048 
Got BOGUS plans for SPRING BREAK? Here's a deal: $165 rndtp fit to S Padre Mar 6-15/16 & sweet condo $130 for the week. Avail b/c 2 friends can't go last min. Scott x1538 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 Mercedes ...................... $200 86VW.................................... $5o 87 Mercedes ...................... $1 00 65 Mustang .......................... $50 Choose from thousands starting $25. 
FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Details 801-379-2929 Copyright #IN11KJC 

TICKETS 

NEED 3 UCLA TIX CALL BLAIR 277-2695 
NEED 5 UCLA GA TIX 
CALL AMY 2909 
HELP! I Need 4 UCLA 
B-Ball Tixs!! 
Mimi 284-5158 
Round trip airfare from Chicago to Puerto Rico for Spring Break: $450. Call x1803 

PERSONAL 

INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
Good rates. Save Money. Call me 
for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
I love Chris Lozier 
St. Valentine was a homosexual 
SPRING BREAK TO FLORIDA 
BEACHES. FUN IN THE SUN, 
4/RM. prices. Daytona $149, Panama City $139 Kitch, Wtrfrt & Trans Available. Call CMI at 1-800­423-5264. 
BUY SPRING BREAK TRIPS NOW to Bahamas, S. Padre, Cancun, Panama City, or Jamiaca From LISA at x4667. Trips are selling FAST! Don't be left outll 
BOSKI is too SEXY for his 
Lizard Kinglll 
Happy Birthday 
Sean Keene 
Love the Lewis Chicks 
Happy Birthday 
Jerome Aya-aylllllll 
Have a great daylllll Love, Cheryl, Gennie, and Colleen 
DID YOU FORGET TO ORDER THAT VALENTINE A DELIVERY FROM IRISH GARDENS??? 
You can still come in and buy flowers, balloons, and cards. 
THEY'LL STILL LOVE YOU. 
We PROMISE. 
Did you get an awesome note in the Observer from someone special today?? 
Come get them a flower or balloon from IRISH GARDENS I 
Hey Home-Slice! 
You are too LAgit to quit! Happy Valentine's Day! 
Love, TN 
That's the way it goes, I guess ... 
Kelly .... 
Waking Nose, Book in the Head, and Two Winds, 
May your horses run fast to the buffalo, we must smoke the peace pipe. 
Leeks in the Night. 
DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO O'HARE? CALL UNITED LIMO. SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK FROM 
ND BUS SHELTER. 884-7000 OR 
1-800-833-5555. 
7 NIGHTS OF CRAZY COLLEGE FUN FROM $199/BUS $299-CALL JAMES 277-9249 
ATTENTION. We aren't going to feign subtlty. Monica Yant is a vey sexually frustrated young women. So, why not call her (X 4098) and tell her it could be worse. She could be a male at Notre Dame. 
ITS NATIONAL PIGGY DAY!III 
ITS NATIONAL PIGGY DAY Ill 
HAPPY NATIONAL PIGGY DAYIII 
His eyes OPEN Ill!! 
THANKS TO EVERYONE WHO SENT IN YOUR VALENTINE'S DAY REQUESTS, including: Dead Flowers, Consider Me Gone, Cold-hearted, Good Times, 2000, Play With Fire, Don't Come Around Here No More, Love Sucks, Little Drummer Boy, Total Eclipse of the Heart, Kiss Off, I Love You but You're Boring, Bad Love, etc., etc .... 
THANKS FOR HELPING US OUT, 
AND MAY YOU SURVIVE V-DAY 
WITH YOUR SANITY INTACT. 
Paul and Joe 
"Let's go Greyhound on spring 
break. 50% off anywhere we go. 
Restrictions apply. Call287-6541" 
We are a young, happily married, financially secure, couple longing for a baby to nurture and share in our love & lives. Let's help each other and give your baby a bright future. Please call collect and get to know us 708-246-1 095. 
CUPID SHOT THE LIZARD KING II 
What happened to BOSKI?? 
Yo Beth and DeDe, 
How's this for having the impetus to write you two a personal. Pretty cool, huh? Yo, Randolph says hi, and you two lovely ladies can come shopping anylime. DUDE 
Please welcome Patty Gilbert's 
triumphant return to the personals 
column. It's been some time, but 
she's back. Watch out world. 
hey nil 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-786­8373 
The Lizard King lives ani Down with the Crustaceans! 
SPRING BREAK '92. Daylona, $149, Cancun $489, Bahamas 
$449. 
Best prices & accommodations guaranteedlll 1 (800) 724-1555 or 236-5825 (24 hrs.) 
Just because They don't recognize Us doesn't mean you don't exist. You're not alone. 
GL**/SMC, Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Monk: did Tom Dooley's male lover really give that typewriter to the University? It confuses me. I had heard that there weren't any gay people at Notre Dame before 1968 (excluding, of course...) Could you please explain?-Michael 
EVERYTHING YOU KNOW IS WRONG!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Come see big, burly German men at the Cavanaugh Hall Play. 
February 27, 28, and 29 
Washington Hall 8 p.m. 
Donations accepted for the Andy Sowder Scholarship fund 
Hey Weezerlll Happy Valentine's Daylll From: your favorite Crazy (&LB.) 
HeyJerom&­
Nice picture!!!!!lll 
Trained masseuse offering services. Steve x2354 
HURRY! Don't Miss Out. SOUTH PADRE and CANCUN SPRING BREAK of "92"1 Seven night packages from $199. Lowest prices guaranteed. Call Orion Tours TODAY: 1-800-800-6050. 
SuperH-1 LOFF YOUII-PT 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center We're Open Everydaylll 
David, I hope that burlap loincloth doesn't hurt too bad. Maybe I can do something about it (Hint, Hint!) You truly are my S&S Honey, and I'll love you FOREVER (God, that's an awfully long timet) Happy V-Day. LYMYWYNY Always. Your rock­toting, club groupie fee-antsy, Tanya 
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL MEMBERS (OR ANYONE INTERESTED IN HELPING FIGHT HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES): PLEASE COME TO OUR MEETING SUNDAY, FEB. 16 AT 8:30P.M. IN MONTGOMERY THEATER IN LAFORTUNE. EVERY BIT HELPS I 
WRITE A LETER. .. ... SAVE A LIFE. 
IT IS BETTER TO LIGHT ONE 
CANDLE THAN TO CURSE THE 
DARKNESS-AMNESTY 
INTERNATIONAL MEETING 8:30 
SUNDAY IN THE MONTGOMERY 
THEATER. BE THERE. 
Rat: 
Carpe Diem 
When can I get it? 
Romance 
Happy V-Day 

Rat: Carpe Diem When can I get it? 
Romance HappyV-Day 

To all the girls I've loved before: Happy Valentine's Day Raleigh 
Garr: I still love you, even though you doubt me. 
God 

Norton, Happy Valentine's Day. (I can't believe I did this I) I love you! Kim 
They gave me apple juice. It was Pooh Bear-colored. 
Dear Bertha, 
I am inclined to decline your offer to cuddle, for although I would like to cuddle, I would not like to drown. I am, however, interested in meeting your 42" friends. 
Love, 
Brendan 

800 YEARS AGO, THE BRITISH ARRIVED IN IRELAND. THEY NEVER LEFT. 
NORTHERN IRELAND AWARENESS GROUP MEETING 
7:00 PM MONDAY 2/17. MONT. THEATRE LAFORTUNE ALL OPINIONS WELCOME 
FIND OUT WHY THE IRISH ARE FIGHTING. 
did you ever wonder why pain couldn't be just a little more pleasing? hang nails could be more fun, probably 
Roses are Red, Violets are Blue, You've sent me 1, You've sent me 2. But now it's a dozen, So it is true, I wonder what's In store for you..... 
Thanx for the roses and for being my Valentine today and every day! I bluv you, Jimbo. Luv,l.b. 
There once was da projects at 'Naugh whose parties had only one flaw. The guys we fear Were totally queer And we've seen one wearing a bra. love, da beavs 
To Da Project: We're frosh and we 
1) have better lives than you 
2) go off campus more than you !amos who sit around your room watching porno movies 
3) party with Rick M. 
4) just want to say...you suck. No, you can only DREAM of sucking! 
5) happy vd. soa 
VERSE TWO: There once were some beavs from PE/Who liked to drink beer for free/So they went to da projects/And drank their fill/And never had to pay the bill. hahaHAhahahaha. 

VALENTINES 

BARN, I LOVE YOU, FLEA 
Bill O'Meara will you be my valentine? -T.S. 
Beavers: V-Day is here. Lament your pitiful existence, purchase those automatic rifles and use them well. SOA's official position on St. Valentine: he was a SADIST! paid for by SOA 
I hate Valentines Day. 
hey sweetpeal i hope you have a great valentine's day! i love you with all my heart. your cute pie 
SA-
Since today is Valentine's Day, I thought this would be a good opportunity to let you know how I really feel about you. You are the hottest, sexiest, most awesome piece of masculinity that I have ever encountered in my 21 years on this earth, even if you do have a thick 
neck. 
I LOVE YOU FOR ALL ETERNITYIIIIIIIII I want you 1MB, your admirer 
Dear Buddy, I'd love for you to be my Valentine, because I fancy you something chronic! 
Love, 
Your Mate 
XXX 

To all IRISH GARDEN workers: 
Ya'll are all so gosh dam nifty and swell. Happy Valentine's Day! [PUKE]. Remember: you are the wind beneath our wings! 
love (and thanks), 
the triumvirate 
DM&M 

Sess, Di, Gabster, Mony, Amita, 
Prasky, Sara, Kristin-Happy 
Valentine's Daylll Love, Nelldog 
SPENCE-EI'II go down the hall to get some notes,O.K. ?Happy V­day,babe-Love,Spence 
• Katie, 
Happy Valentine's Day! 
I had a great time last weekend. 

We should do it again sometime. 
Tim P.S. have you found out 
what is supposed to happen. 
To the cute Irish girt from Buffalo­Remember the lunches in Lafayette Square, and the midsummer day at the beach. Remember the late August night on Richmond Ave. sharing Labatt's dreams, and friendship. Will you be my Valentine? Let's make this summer another to remember. 
_Love, 
missing you in Ithaca 

Rob, 
Thanks for the smooch and the 
roses. 
Happy Valentine's Day. 
Love, 

Bagel, Leener, Fanny, Mo 
WOOTHERMAUK (sp?), 
You're the Greatestlll 
With Love, Kand H 

Ebbers-
Happy Valentime's Day to the cutest 
Iii' bunny on campus! I love you! 
Love 
Pumpkinhead 

Yes, Mrs. OB 
John and I are still dating, but no 
ring yet 
KT 
see CLASS page 8 

pag~a ·{s· . . ... . . ......................................... 11ie· ObServe·r· ............................................Friday:~ebrUary 14:: .1992tl
\II ........... a .. . 
SMC hoops tips Grace, 64-63 
Tom Clements returns 
By CHRIS BACON mances of the season, tallied was not enough to give Grace SMC Sports Writer 12 points and10 rebounds. the last minute steal. 

to Irish as QB coach 
"Catherine played a solid Grace showed strength early 

Special of the Observer unbeaten national
Cutting it close has become a game," commented Belles in the game, jumping to a 8-0 championship season in 1973 habit for the Saint Mary's bas­assistant coach JoAnne Nester. lead. But the Belles ignited 
Tom Clements, the All­and quarterbacking
ketball(6-8) team. Stretching "It really was one of her best their fast breaking run and 
American quarterback of postseason bowl game 
their win streak to three last all around games." gun offense and stole the lead. 
Notre Dame's 1973 national victories over unbeaten and night, the Belles narrowly Julie Snyder, center, added The Belles maintained that 
championship football team top-ranked Alabama fended off Grace College(14-8) 11 points and eight rebounds. lead for the remainder of the 
and a 12-year standout in following both his junior and in the last minute to win 63-One key element in last game. At the half, the Belles 
the Canadian Football senior seasons. Clements' 62.. night's win was the efforts of led 31-26. 
League, has been named signature play in '73 was a The ~in against Grace freshman Kathleen Gerigk. "We really put the run and 
quarterback coach on Lou third-and-eight pass out of Holtz's staff. his own endzone for 35 yards College is the third in a row for Gerigk adding four points and gun in action. They got tired, to tight end Robin Weber inSaint Mary's. The Belles five rebounds to the Belles to­so we ran all the more. We Clements replaces Peter the Sugar Bowl. The playescaped Grace two years ago tals, shut down Grace's lead took it to them and won," Vaas, who spent two years on cemented Notre Dame's 24­in Warsaw, 61-59. Last season, point-guard Janice Harp. Harp explained Snyder. 
the Notre Dame staff prior to 23 triumph over Bearthe Belles trounced their visi­stacked up 22 points against Outrunning their hosts, the being named head coach at Bryant's number-one rated tors 82-64. Belles rival Bethel College. But Belles maintained their lead. 
Holy Cross on January 4. Tide and guaranteed the 
The win also marks the third last night, Gerigk pressured Saint Mary's defensive 
Clements joins the national crown for the Irish. consecutive victory for the the Grace ball handler, limiting pressure forced Grace to shoot 
coaching ranks following five Belles. The Belles came off of her to just one basket from the only 30 percent from the field. 
years as a member of the law A fourth-place finisher in big last minute wins against field. Saint Mary's seemed to have 
firm of Bell, Boyd &Lloyd in the '7 4 Heisman balloting, Saint Francis College and "She shows a lot of promise," sealed the victory in the last 
Chicago. He earned his law Clements completed 122 of Bethel College. Although three added Nester. "They put a lot few minutes. Costly fouls's, 
degree from Notre Dame in 215 passes for 1549 yards 1986-graduating magna and eight touchdowns and asmay not sound like much, for of pressure on her. She played however, brought Grace to the cum laude-after returning to a senior in '7 4 the struggling Belles squad, a heads up smart, aggressive line four times in the last 
campus to study between His career totals include
this marks the beginning of a game." minute. But the Belles were 
professional seasons in 265 completions in 490
turnaround, and hopes for post With Harp shut down, Grace better rested and held on for Canada. He announced his attempts for 3594 yards and season play. turned to Cheryl Myers for their third victory against retirement from the CFL on 24 touchdowns. 
Senior Janet Libbing led the leadership. Myers tallied 22 Grace. 
May 5, 1988 and has ben game with 16 points and 13 re­points and 15 rebounds. Nicole "It was really nice that when with Bell, Boyd & Lloyd on a Clements finished his bounds. Senior forward Ryman added another 10 it came to a tense moment, we 
fulltime basis since then. career as one of the most Catherine Restovich giving one points in the team's efforts. But got good contributions from all 
accomplished and productive of her best overall perfor-the efforts of these two players the player," added Nester. 
The 38-year-old McKees quarterbacks in CFL history. Rock, Pa., native served as He earned the SchenleyWimbledon and three U.S. communities an opportunity to 
Notre Dame's starting Award as the CFL's Most 
Open doubles trophies during see some outstanding tennis quarterback for three Outstanding Rookie and also



Legends 
his long career, will likely play played by what were once 

straight years from 1972-74, claimed the Frank M. Gibson at number two, with Mayer at some of the biggest names in 
Ara Parseghian's final three Trophy as Most Outstanding three and Dibley at four. the game. 
continued from page 24 
years as Irish head coach. He Rookie in the Eastern "The nice thing about it is 
started a record 34 straight Conference. He made the One of the more interesting that you have the camera 
games during that period, Eastern Conference all-starschedule. After facing three leading the Irish to a team that rookie season asmatches of the day could come crews out from differenttough dual-match opponents combined 29-5 record (8-3 he completed 144 of 252at number one doubles. Notre television stations, showing an
two weekends ago, Notre 
in'72, 11-0 in'73 and 10-2 in passes for 2013 yards and 13Dame's team of DiLucia and interest in Notre DameDame sent only three players '74). touchdowns. It was the firstChuck Coleman may face off tennis," said Bower. "Growingto Minneapolis last weekend Among the highlights of his of nine seasons in which heagainst 1979 French Open up in South Bend, you neverfor the ITCA National Indoor 
collegiate career include threw for 2000 or more
titleists Pfister and Mayer. had that before." 

leading Notre Dame to its yards.
Championships. 
DiLucia is anxious to see how Bayliss likens the event to he fares against the Legends. 

The Irish will compete attending a concert by a ~~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
"They've been out there. musical maestro or a play with against fifth-ranked Florida on They're match-tough, they're an internationally renowned 

Get off the phone "Joan"
Thursday in the first round of experienced and they're good actor.
the National Team Indoor 
players," said DiLucia. "I think 


It's your birthday baby! 
tournament. Bayliss sees this this is just a fun event. We'reweekend's match as a way for supposed to go out and have athe Irish to keep in playing good time." 
shape before next week's According to Bower, the
important tourney. 
Legends still play the game of the wooden racquet, using

"It's a terrific position for us 
finesse, which relies more onto be in," said Bayliss. "We're skill than on power.

playing quality opposition without any real risk. It's in effect an exhibition match in the middle of your season, which is great. 
"No one's ego is going to be damaged if you lose to Peter Fleming or if you lose to Hank Pfister. Those are such great players." 
PfiSter will lead the Legends Into the Eck in the number-one 
IllALUMNI=====~
singles spot. Currently the 
SENIOR 

first-ranked player in the world in men's 35's, PfiSter will face David DILucia, who is ranked second In collegiate 





&!:CLUB
tennis, In Saturday's headline This event will give the Notre match. 
Dame and South BendFleming, who won four 

STUDENT BARTENDER APPLICATIONS 
& 


JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM UP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 5, 1992 



I UNIVERSITY OF NOTE DAME 
I SUMMER SESSION 1992 COURSE LIST 
I 
I 
I The 1992 summer ...~on will begin on Tueaday, June 23 (enroUrnent) and end on Wedneaday, Auguat 5 (final exams). Some courses --primarily In ~elence, mathematics and languagea •• will begin and end before or after these dat•. The summer aeaalon B.Wli1Jn will contain complete schedule Information. The illlJlJlJln will be available at the Summer S...ion Office (312 Main Building) begiMing on Friday, February 14. 
Notre Dame continuing atudenta •• undergraduate and graduate ltudenta In ,..ldence during the spring aemester of 1092 who are eligible to return In the fall -must uae DART 1) to register for summer courses and 2) to .td or drop cou,... through Friday, June 28. Instructions on the use of DART for summer and a PIN (personal ldentHication number) will be aent to all continuing atudents In mid-February. Couru call numbers, along with all other courae Information, will be published In the summer ....ion Bulletin. 
DART will be available for summer registration from Man:h 2 to 27 and from April 27 to June 28. Students may register or make schedule changes whenever they choose during theM periods; no appointment tlmea are necesaary. 
Students may regllter for summer 68Siion courus at any time up to the first day of the course. Students who decide to register after DART closea on Friday, June 28 must complete the standard summer ....ion _,.,llc:ationlcourN Mlectlon form. 
I 
I Air conditioned and non-air conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plana will be available. Forms for these aervlcea may be obtained at the 
I Summer Se88ion Office at any time during the spring aernester. 
I 
I Tuition for the summer se881on of 1992 will be $122 per credit hour plus a $25 general fee. 
I 
I AEROSPACE AND MECHANICAL ENGINEERING 
AERO 499. Undergraduate Research
I 
AERO 598. Advanced Studies
I 
AERO 599. Thesis Direction 
I 
AERO 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
I 
AERO 699. Research and Dissertation
'I 
AERO 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
I 
I MECHANICAL ENGINEERING I ME 226. Mechanics ll I ME 321. Differential Equations and Applied Mathematics 
ME 327. Thermodynamics ME 334. Auid Mechanics ME 342. Engineering Economy (london) ME 498A. Engineering, Society and the International Community ME 598. Advanced Studies (London) ME 599. Thesis Direction ME 600. Nonresident Thesis Research ME 699. Research and Dissertation 
AMERICAN STUPIES AMST 449. WritingNonfiction AMST 463. The Selfin Modem America AMST 498/598. Special Studies AMST 599. Thesis Direction AMST 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
I 
ANIHROPQLOGY ANTH 490. Archaeological Field School ANTH 491. Ethnographic Field Methods & Techniques 
·ANTH 498. Directed Readings ' 
ARCHITECIJJRE 
ARCH 598. Advanced Studies ARCH 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
ART. ART HIStoRY. and DESIGN ART.HISTORY COURSES ARHI 473. Michelangelo and Art of the Maniera ARHI 475/575. Directed Readings in Art History ARHI 599. Resident Thesis ARHI 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
STUDIO COURSES ARST 134. Basic Painting Policy ARST 209/210. Basic Ceramics ARST244/444. Wood Sculpture ARST 245/445. Metal Sculpture ARST 409/509. Ceramics Studio ARST 433/533. Painting Studio ARST 499S. Special Studies ARST 585. Photography Stuido ARST 676. Directed Readings ARST 6%. Thesis Project 
BIOLOGICAL SC1ENCES BIOS 494. Directed Readings BIOS 499. Undergraduate Research BIOS 569. Practical Aquatic Biology BIOS 599. Thesis Direction BIOS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research BIOS 672. Special Problems BIOS 699. Research and Dissertation BIOS 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
BUSThffiSSAD~TRATION 
ACCf 231. Principles of Accounting I ACCf 232. Principles of Accounting II ACCf 334. Cost Analysis and Control ACCf 371. Financial Accounting Theory and Practice I ACCf 475. Auditing Theory and Practice ACCf 476. Introduction to Federal Taxation BA 230. Statistics in Business BA 362. Legal Environment of Business BA 490. Corporate Strategy FIN 231. Business Finance FIN 360. Managerial Economics 
FIN 361. Business Conditions Analysis MGT 231. Principles of Management MGT 240. Computers in Business 1 MGT 381. Gender Issues in Managing MGT 382. Career Management MGT 475. Human Resource Management 

CHEMICAL ENGINEERING CHEG 499. Undergraduate Research CHEG 599. Thesis Direction CHEG 600. Nonresident Thesis Research CHEG 699. Research and Dissertation CHEG 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
CHEMISTRY AND BIOCHEMISTRY CHEM 116. General Chemistry CHEM 118. General Chemistry CHEM 223. Elementary Organic Chemistry I CHEM 223l. Elementary Organic Chemistry Laboratory I CHEM 224. Elementary Organic Chemistry ll CHEM 224L. Elementary Organic Chemistry Laboratory II CHEM 499R. Undergraduate Research CHEM 599R. Thesis Direction CHEM 600R. Nonresident Thesis Research CHEM 699R. Research and Dissertation CHEM 700R. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
0VIL ENGINEERING and GEOWGICAL SOENCES CE 498. Directed Studies CE 598R. Advanced Studies CE 599R. 'Thesis Direction CE 600R. Nonresident Thesis Research CE 698R. Advanced Topics CE 699R. Research and Di5sef'tation CE 700R. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
GEOLOGICAL SCIENCES 
GEOS 499. Undergraduate Research 

CLASSICAL It ORIENTAL LANGUAGES&: LITERATURES CLGR 101. Beginning Greek I CLGR 102. BeginningGreekll CLGR 103. Beginning Greek ill CLGR SOOA. Beginning Greek I CLGR SOOB. Beginning Greek II CLLA101. Beginningl..atini CLLA 102. Beginning Latin ll CLLA 103. Beginning Latin III CLLA 498. Special Studies CLLA 500A. Beginning Latin I CLLA SOOB. Beginning Latin II MLAR 101. Beginning Arabic I MLAR 102. Beginning Arabic II MLAR 103. Beginning Arabic ill MLAR 498. Special Studies MLJA 101. Beginning Japanese I MLJA 102. Beginning Japanese ll MLJA 103. Beginning Japanese III MLJA 498. Special Studies 
COMMUNICATION AND DJEATRE 
COTH 201. Basics of Film and Television 
COTH 420. Acting Workshop 
COTH 450. Screen Writing 
COTH 451. Writers' Workshop 
COTH 460. The Photographic Image: Theory and Practice 
COTH 465/565. Computer Graphics and Animation COTH 474/574. Film and Media Genres: The Horror Film 
COTH 493A. Broadcast Internship (WNDU) 
COTH 501. Comparative Approaches to the Media 
COTH 515A. Multiculturalism, Uteracy, and the Media 
COTH 515B. Post Modem Television 
COTH 515C. Contemporary Women's Fiction 
COTH 560. Television Production 
COTH 572. Advertising 
COTH 573. Public Relations 
COTH 598. Special Studies· 
COTH 599. Thesis Direction 
COTH 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
COMPUTER SOENCE AND ENGINEERING 
CSE 332. Microcomputers 
CSE 498. Directed Studi••s 
COMPUTER APPLICATIONS 
CAPP 243. Introduction to Computers 
CAPP 353. Using the Computer to your Advantage: 
CAPP 375. Current Trends in Computer Applications 
CAPP 497. Special Projects 
CAPP 498. Departmental Tutorial ECONOMICS ECON 224. Principles of Economics II ECON 350. Economics of Labor Institutions ECON 421. Money, Credit and Banking ECON 498. Special Studies ECON 599. Thesis Direction ECON 600. Non-Resident Thesis Research ECON 697. Special Topics ECON 698. Directed Readings ECON 699. Research and Dissertation ECON 700. Non-Resident Dissertation 

ELECI'RICAL ENGINEERING EE 222. Introduction to Electrical Science EE 224. Introduction to Electrical Networks EE 241. Logic Design and sequential Orcuits EE 242. Electronic Circuits I EE 361. Microcomputers EE 498. Directed Studies EE 499. Undergraduate Research EE 598M. Directed Reading-VI.SI Orcuit Design EE 598R. Advanced Studies EE 599. Thesis Direction EE 600. Nonresident Research EE 698. Advanced Topics EE 699. Research and Dissertation EE 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
ENGINEERING NONJ)EfARlMENTAL EG 498. Research Experience for Undergraduates 
ENGLISH ENGL 322. The Novel: A Survey ENGL 409B. Writing Non-Fiction Prose ENGL 440. Shakespeare ENGL 487. The American Novel ENGL 498. Directed Readings ENGL 500. English for Non-Native Speakers ENGL 571. Modem British Drama ENGL 589A. The Puritan Imagination in American 
Uterature ENGL 598. Special Studies ENGL 599. Thesis Direction 
ENGL 600. Nonresident Thesis Research ENGL 699. Research and Dissertation ENGL 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
GERMAN&: RUSSIAN LANGUAGES&: LITERATURES GE 101. Beginning German I GE 102. BeginningGerman ll GE 125. Intermediate German I GE 126. Intermediate German II GE 500. German Graduate Reading 
GOVERNMENT AND INTERNATIONAL SIUDIES GOVT 341. International Relations GOVT 520. Congress and Foreign Policy GOVT 497 I 498. Undergraduate Directed Readings GOVT 599. Thesis Direction GOVT 692 Directed Readings -Government GOVT 696. Examination Preparation GOVT 699. Research and Dissertation GOVT 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
HISTORY HIST 320. Crime and Society in Western Europe HIST 324. History and Legend in the Middle Ages HIST 357. War and Peace in the Nuclear Age: 1941-1991 HIST 369. American Indians and Anglo-Americans HIST 379. Direction Action and Passive Resistance 
in Modem America HIST 490. Directed Readings HIST 590. Directed Readings HIST 599. Thesis Direction HIST 600. Non-Resident Thesis Direction HIST 697. Directed Readings HIST 699. Research and Dissertation HIST 700. Non-Resident Research and Dissertation 
PROGRAM IN1HE HISTORY AND PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE HI'S 599. Thesis Direction HI'S 600. Nonresident Thesis Research HI'S 603. Directed Readings 
a -~------------~---­
-
t • 4 ; I .. I I I ...

• f • '. .... .. • • f 
page 18____________________________________________~T~he~O~b~se~N~er~--------------------------------~Fr~id=a~y~·~Fe=b=r=ua=~~1~4~·~19=9~2 
items for return without re­"Tom Kelly and I talked to fight the case, and that he was then. If that Riggings thing was ceipts. the Mishawaka police depart-extremely displeased with the a factor in my dismissal, why

Day three 
ment together," said Anderson, performance of his public de-didn't they dismiss me hack in 
continued from page 24 
security had no file of any kind on a Mr. Bill Anderson Jr. 
"We do a records check when asked, but nobody would do it in writing," said Rakow concerning the records check ordered by RecSports which al­legedly turned up Anderson's 1981 felony in Cincinnati. 
Rakow indicated, however, that security was in possession of files belonging to the Mishawaka police department and the Cincinnati police de­partment concerning Anderson. Because the files were the property of the respective police departments, Rakow was not at liberty to release them. 
The Mishawaka Police de­partment was then contacted, and Assistant Chief for Records Barnett Bernoff authorized Notre Dame assistant director of Security Chuck Hurley to re­lease an initial case report dated March 5, 1990. 
The report states that Bill Doyce Anderson was hired in 1989 by "R. Riggings," which is actually J. Riggings, in the University Park Mall. Anderson was later promoted within the store, according to the report. 
The report states that the store began losing money through "thefts on returns," district management was con­tacted and inventory was scheduled for March 5, 1990. Anderson was later accused by store management of accepting 
Anderson "gave the manage­ment of Riggings a written con­fession when they called him in on the incident. He is claiming that he was responsible for only $1,400 missing. He also told them that other people were stealing the merchandice [sic]... " the report said. 
Anderson said the incident was partially motivated by racist attitudes by store man­agement. 
"At that time, I was autho­rized to handle returns of mer­chandise, with or without re­ceipts; said Anderson. "...l let black people return items without receipts because the white managers would do that for white people but not for black people. At the time, I did what I thought was fair." 
"The whole store had to sign that statement-that was what the district manager told me," said Anderson, "so I signed it. It was after Christmastime and we had done a lot of returns, so when they asked me how much money I was responsible for, I just said '$1,400' off the top of my head." 
Anderson supported the statement in the report noting that the Mishawaka police had contacted the University. 
He went on, however, to al­lege that Kelly and Rich O'Leary [assistant director of RecSports] were aware of the Mishawaka incident in March of 1990, and that it was never mentioned in connection with his dismissal. 

"because in March 1990, 
Riggings had called Tom and told him that I had been ar­rested for embezzlement. Tom told me I was being suspended because of this, and I said 'Wait a minute. This investiga­tion is still ongoing.' 
"I finished coaching that whole year. Tom knew about this. I even told my team about this. I quit the job at Riggings-1 was not fired-because I did not like being told to keep an eye on every black person who came in the door." 
When called for comment on the Riggings incident, Kelly re­fused to comment. 
Dave Bose, vice-president and captain of the men's volleyball club, stated that. Anderson did inform him and Mike Flecker of the Riggings incident. 
"Bill was getting mad at some of the workers at Riggings," said Bose. "He said that he couldn't understand the accusations. He said that he was a scapegoat for lazy workers." 
Despite the fact that there was not an attorney present when Anderson signed the confession in question, he alleges that the public defender assigned to his case told him that he had signed it and must live with the fact. 
Anderson further stated that he plead guilty because he did not have enough money to fendant. March of 1990? 

Hurley further stated that "This is what bugs me. They Anderson was tried Nov. 27, went back 11 years in the past 1991, in St. Joseph County, and to dismiss me despite my six pleaded guilty to criminal con-years of service. I just don't version, which is a misde-understand why they would do meanor. that. To this date I haven't 
been given an explanation as 
He received a fme and a 90-to why." day suspended jail sentence, made $1,400 in restitution and Anderson maintains that his one year of non-reporting pa­motivation in coming forward role. with his story is to tell people 
that Notre Dame is not beyond_ 
Dismissal unexplained reproach. 
At any rate, Anderson main­"I want everyone to know tains that the Riggings incident that Notre Dame is not beyond was never mentioned when he reproach," said Anderson. was dismissed by O'Leary. "They act like these holier­
"When I was dismissed in than-thous up on a pedestal, January of 1991, O'Leary said but they are just like every that there was a discrepancy other institution in this coun­with my application try. I'm not talking about the concerning a robbery in University as a whole, but Cincinnati in 1981," said there are certain individuals Anderson. "And I told him that here. I just feel that I was it was not a robbery. He knew wronged and I haven't been about the Riggings incident, given a direct explanation but he never mentioned it why." 

QOC INSTJJVD! lpr IN]J!BNA110NAL PEACJ! STIJQU!S liPS 396/496. Directed ladings liPS 427/527. Conlllct Resolution: Theol}' and Practice liPS 434/534. The Art of Peacemaking: GandhJ. Buber and Preire liPS 488A/S88A. CDntemporary baues In International CDnfllct and 
Cooperation liPS 501. CDlloqulum on Crou-Cuitural Undentandlng liPS 530. Peace Studies Labonl10ry liPS 599. Thesb Direction liPS 600. Nonresident Thesis ~h liPS 692. Dlm:ted Radlngs liPS 695. Field l!xperlencs 
MAJlfEMAJICS MArn 10.. Finite Mathematics MArn 11!5. Elements o1 Calculus 1 MArn 106. Elements ofCalculus u MArn 126. Calculus U MArn 211. Computer Programmingand Problem Solvln& MArn 499. Uncterp.duate Radlng MArns11. Computer Programming and Problem Solvln& MAni552. Mathemadcallnduction and Us Applications MArn 519. Introduction toPASCAL MArn 698. Advanced Graduate Reading MArn 699. Research and Diseertation MArn 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
MEDIEVAL INS]TJJTO! Ml 470. Medieval Latin M1 497. Directed Readings Ml 541. Narratives of Faith &om Auguatlne 10 Aquinas M1 597. Directed Readings M1 599. Thesis Direction M1 600. Nonresident TI>esis Re.arch Ml 699. Research and Dlsaertation M1100. Nonresident Dissertation ~h 
Ml1SlC MUS 222. Introduction 10 Symphonic Music: MUS 310/510. Plano MUS 311/511. Organ MUS 313. Guitar MUS 314/514. Voice MUS 316/516. Cello MUS 498. Undergraduate Special Studies MUS 598. Spedal Studies MUS 599. Thelia Direction MUS 600. Non-Resident Thall R-.dl 
MATJIIUS SDJ!NCJ! AND ENGINI!I!J!ING MSB 499. Underpaduate Ra.n:h MSE 598. Advanced Studiea MSE599. Thelia Direction MSE 600. NOI\I'elldent Thelia~ MSE 698. Advanced Topb MSl! 699. ~and ~lion MSE 100. Nonrealdent ~tlon Raearch 
lHXS.Ia 
PHYS 221. Phy.la 1 PHYS 222. Phy.~a n PHYS 499. Undergraduate~ PHYS 598. Special Topics PHYS 699. Raearch and DisRrtatlon PHYS 700. Nonrealdent DIMetation Jie-rch 
PROGRAM Qll.IBJ!BAL mmms PLS 280. Undergraduate Great Boob Seminar "The Great 
CDnversation" PLS 501. Madison: The Federalist Papers PLS 502. Joyce: Portnit of the Artist 

PLS 503. PlaiO: The Republic PLS SOt. The Goapel ofJohn PLS 505. MUIOn: Paradile Lost PLS 506. Tolltoy: Annl Kamlina PLS 507. The Diwelopment of CDnsdence and Character: Ancient 
and WocMm Viewa PIS501. Jolm Henry Newman: AThinker' a Journey to God 
PLS 471. Directed Rsdlngs 
lS)'CHOJ.ocy PSY 341. Experimental Paydlology 1: Stalilda PSY 341L Experimental hydaology 1: Labonltory 
PSY 351. Child Development PSY 354. Almormal Psychology PSY 397. Special Studiea PSY 497. Special Studiea PSY 560. Resean:h Methodology PSY 561. FoundationsofCDunseling PSY 599. Thesis Direction PSY 600. Nonresident Thesis Direction PSY 663. Psychopathology PSY 678. Seminar In Pamily Therapy PSY 691A. Advanced Speclalluues in Counseling PSY 691B. Advanced btues In Statlatlcs and PSY 693. Reeding Projects: Spedal Topics PSY 695. R.Mn:h Projecta: Special Topics PSY 699. a-rdland DiMa1ation 
PSY 100. Nom.ident DIIRI1ation Research 
nmosomx 

PHIL 201. Introduction to Philotophy PHIL 225. Sdentlllc Penlpectivee of Humanity PHIL 'JZ/. Ways of Knowing PHIL 234. The Art of hacemaldng: Gandhi, Buber and Freire PHIL 246. Ethics IJid Business PHIL 261. Philosophyof Religion PHIL 312. Nlelzlche'a Trilogy PHIL 498. Dlm:ted Radlngs PHIL 598. Directed~ PHJL&. ~and~don PHIL 100. NOIII'IIIdent 01..-tation a-rch 
ROMANC!: LANt.LAlil;.) .uuJ U ll:lj 1 I Li'l'' ROFR 101. Beginning French I ROFR 102. !lcginning French II ROFR 103. Intermediate French ROFR 1Q4.. Conversational French ROFR 399. Special Studies ROIT 101. Beginning Italian I ROIT 102. Beginning Italian i1 ROIT 103. Intermediate italian ROIT 104. Conversational Italian ROIT 399. Special Studies ROSP 101. Beginning Spanish I ROSP 102. Beginning Spanish II ROSP 103. lntennediate Spanish ROSP 104. Conversational Spanish ROSP 399. Speci.ai Studies ROSP 401. Topics in Spanish Literature ROFR 500. French Graduate Reading ROI'O 500. Portuguese Graduate Reading ROSP 500. Spani5h Graduate Reading ROFR 597. Directed Readings 

ROFR 599. Thesis Research ROFR 600. Nonresident Thesis Research ROFR 697. Special Studies ROSP 597. Directed Readings ROSP 599. Thesi• Research ROSP 600. Nonresident Thesi• Research ROSP 697. Special Studies 
SOQOWGX 
SOC 102. Introduction to Sociology 
SOC 210. Gender Roles and Violence In Society SOC 220. Social Psychology SOC 301. lnequallty In American Society SOC 306. Race Relations In the US. SOC 311. Environmental Sociology SOC 319. Sociology of Sport SOC 498. Directed Reedings SOC 599. Thesis Direction SOC 600. Nonresident Thesis Research SOC 655. Directed Readings SOC 699. Research and Dissertation 
SOC 700. Nonresident Disserllllion Research 
JHEOI.QGY TiiEO 200. Foundationa ol Theology: Biblical/Historical nmo 200. Foundationa o1 Theology: Blbllcal/ Historical TiiEO 250. Roads to God nmo 260. Christian Ethics nmo 498. Directed Readings TiiEO500. Introduction to Graduate Studies TiiEO SOOA. Themes and Texts in the Catholic Tradition nmo 502. ute Cydes 1n Jewish Uturgy: Introduction to Judaism nmo Sl.1lA. Elementary lieiRw nmo509G1. Beginning Creel< 1 nmoS09G2. BeginningGreek n nmoS09G3. Beginning GREEI< m 
TiiEO 513. Paul'a U1e and !...etten nmo 516. John's eo.per nmo s22. Historical n-1ogy <Medieval) THEO 530. Pundamentals o1 Systematic Theology THEO531. Theologyof Reftlation THEO 532. Chrislology 'Jl{EO 534. Doctrine ofGod THEO 537. Seaarnenta1 Theology nmoSS2.lntelpenoiw Ethics nmo560. Uturglcal Hlslory nmo561. Christian Initiation nmo562. Eucharist 
nmo563. Utursfcal Prayer THEO 564. Uturglcal Year THEO 5660. Orden and Mlnistry THEO 570A. Protestant Worship THEO 572. Ritual Studies 
THEO 572C. Uturgy and Popular Culture THEO 573L. CDmps Rmew-Uturgical Studies THEO 573T. CDmps Rmew-Theologlcal Studle THEO 574. The Bible and Uturgy THEO 590. Hlsto'Y of Uturgical Muaic THEO 591A. Uturgical Law THEO 598. Directed ~lngs nmo599. Thesis 01rectton THEO 600. Nonresident Thesis Research THEO 699. Research and Dissertation THEO 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 


r---------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
R E c R D s Edison Rd. 
1631 Edison Rd. -South Bend 
277-8338 HC>URS 
10-9 11-7
~ $10.99 I $6.99 

Mon-Sat Sunday
~~q_ CD I TP ~\ ~ 

~~ 

~ c,v 








$2.00 

orr all 

Area's Largest Selection of CDs Imports 
CDs 

Friday, February 14, 1992 
Hockey travels to Kent St. 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame men's hockey team travels to Kent State for a two game series this weekend. 
The Irish, (8-14-1), will try to halt a four game losing streak when they face off with the Golden Flashes on Friday. 
The journey to Kent, Ohio, will complete the four game series between the two squads. The Irish split with the Golden Flashes when they met in November of last year for two games at the Joyce ACC. 
The Notre Dame offense did not show up for the firSt game, scoring only one goal for the game. Kent State, however, had no problem lighting the lamp, exploding for six goals behind Neal Purdon's hat trick. 
The second game saw the Notre Dame offense awake from its slumber. The Irish power play was the key, as they converted on four of five attempts in a 7-5 Irish victory. The scoring was led by Sterling Black's two goals, while five other players added a goal. 
The Flashes are currently on a six game winning streak, including a sweep of leading independent Alaska-Fairbanks. The Irish and Kent State are two of the four teams that are still competing for a spot in the season-ending independent tournament in Alaska. 
The Flashes, (12-12-2), are led in scoring by Claude Morin's 31 points. Between the pipes for the Flashes are Mario Lacasse and Scott Shaw. The duo combined for 59 saves and a victory in an 8-7 overtime win against Alaska-Fairbanks. 
Notre Dame leads the overall series 11-4-3, with eight wins and three ties in the last 12 meetings. 
swim Golski distance point. she breaking stli!:o~~~ r~et1tlt<ts the 500, free~ ~¢ l,a>~lr J)Eting 
forte.·· gotten her as a dlver. 
•yes, it's true, l tried . diving my junior year. It was impor­tant to me to be versatile for the team; I could swim or dive ifneeded,"' she said. 
Golski bad some background i~ diving; she was in a sunu:ll:er league but Without a cOa.ck Cutious as to 


•Anyone 
who purchases a ticket for this weekend's tennis match will be invited to a free clinic, put on by the men's tennis team. The clinic wil be today at 6 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion.Tickets are $5 for students. 

•Attention 
ND/SMC Salling team and anyone who likes to sail: There will be a mandatory meeting Monday, February 17, at 8:15 p.m. in room 204 O'Shaugnessy. Everyone is welcome to attend, including freshmen. 

•The 
new Bookstore Basketball commissioner for 1992 is Andy Sinn, and the following people have been named assistant commissioners: Theresa Forst, Bobby Sullivan, Pat Coleman, Allen Echiverri, John O'Rourke, John Neal, Dan Gutchewsky, and Scott Buccellato. Congratulations to everyone. 


IU,......,, . ., 
swim team re· 

debut was met by thused.. team a very qualified, coach .at Saint 
how she could d. ···  h the aid  
of a eoHe.  g coach.  
beil}g a...,.  he Belles  
hadacert  t  

"Also/' ,(;0J.sJd shyly conceded. "D'I..f times were getting worse and I was struggling and frustrated. Diving Was a good excuse to help out the team while still pleasing myselfr 
Half way .. ·· ' 

Buy-Sell-Trade Used CDs & Tapes 
..... SGie --. ClllcL

Great Prices on Blank Tape: ......... 
Maxell, Denon, TDK \.. -~-~~!!':.. -_, 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-

The Observer Friday, February 14, 1992
page 20 
Wrestlers streaking into MSU 
BYJIMVOGL Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame wrestling team takes a two game win streak on the road, facing Michigan State on Sunday. 
The series began in the 1985-86 season. Since then, the Spartans have taken four of six from the Irish, including the last two matches. 
However, the Irish (4-3) ap­pear to have the advantage this year. The Spartans currently post a 5-9 record, and won't get much rest before they face Notre Dame. MSU meets Central Michigan on Saturday. 
The Spartans have been decked in the Big 10, their only win in six matches coming against Illinois. The Irish also beat Illinois 24-11 two weeks ago, but have gaged the tough Big 10 competition, losing 32-9 to Ohio State. 
Notre Dame head coach evaluated his opponent. "As far as I can tell, they seem to be having kind of a won year. From the lineup I've seen, this is not one of their better teams. But they beat us last 
year and they are a Big 10 team. 
be a tough meet for us." 

A pair of seniors from Del City, OK serve as bookends for the Irish. The 126-pound Marcus Gowens is 19-4 on the 
year, good for a 13th place na­tional ranking. Facing MSU's Demond Betts (5-6), Gowens should leave East Lansing just eight short of 100 career vic­tories. His career record stands at 91-38-1. 
Heavyweight Chuck Weaver (15-4) made his first career appearance in the national rankings, placing 18th at heavyweight, steam-rolling to seven straight wins. His hit­list includes seventh-ranked OSU heavyweight Ray Mendoza. 
Three of Weaver's four losses have been at the hands of top-25 competitors, according to Amateur Wrestling News preseason rankings. Weaver takes on the Spartans' Don Whipp (24-11). 

"So I think this it's going to 
The only match that could top the heavyweights is at 177. 
J.J. McGrew is coming into top form, and faces one of Michigan's toughest in Brian Woods (21-12-1). 
Senior Tom Salvino (10-100 returns at 190 after sitting out last week's Syracuse meet with sore ribs. Freshman Harris Brumer stepped and earned a victory in his place. 
Sophomore Javier Rivera (0­1-1) makes his third start at 188, hoping to earn his first victory. He faces Jedediah Kramer (8-16). The rest of the Irish lineup will likely remain the same. 
reduce reuse Recycle. 
NOW!!! 

N D track teams head 
BY JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 

The indoor track season continues this weekend as the men's and women's teams travel to different meets. The men are headed to Iowa City, lA for the Central Collegiate Championships, while the women take their running shoes to West Lafayette for the Purdue Invitational. 
The men hope to improve on last year's fourth place finish in the 66th running of the Central meet. Michigan teams dominated the top spots with Eastern taking top honors, University of Michigan in second, and Western in fifth. Also finishing in the top ten were Purdue (finished second), University of Iowa, and Wisconsin. 
This year, in addition to traditional track powerhouses, Eastern Michigan, Iowa, and Purdue, Michigan State, which is having an outstanding year, will be represented at the meet. Notre Dame is looking to improve on last year's performance despite missing some notables from last Yllar's event. Gone are Raghib "Rocket" Ismail, who won the 55-meter dash, and Ryan Cahill, who placed second in the 5,000-meters, to name two. 
"Our goal is to do better (than last year)," said Notre 
Dame coach Joe Plane. "Last year, we had a luxury in Rocket because we knew before we even got on the bus that he could win the 55. But there are some areas where we can actually score some points." 
Rocket may be gone, but several runners remain who could do well for the Irish in the 55. Sophomore Willie Clark finished second to Rocket in the event last year and freshman sprinter Mike Miller has also been running well this year. Also in the sprints, senior Rod Smith will try to defend his victory in the 200-meter dash. 
The returning distance core should be a big asset to Notre Dame. Returning for the Irish are junior John Coyle and sophomore Mike McWilliams, both of whom will compete in the 5,000. Senior Pat Kearns and junior Nick Radkewich will represent Notre Dame in the 3,000, while senior co-captain Brian Peppard will try to improve on his third place fmish in the 1,000. 
The Irish should also score some points in the field events with the help of sophomore Jim Flanigan, senior co­captain Ryan Mihalko, and freshman Dan Grenough. Flanigan and Mihalko fmished third and tenth respectively in the shot put, while Grenough has btlen impressive in 
~~1!~·~~~~~~~......~"""·····­
Cinema at the Snlte Friday and Saturday 6:00 9:15 

in different directions 
performances this season. 
The women will face Purdue, Southern Illinois, Miami (Ohio), and Southwest Mississippi State in this year's edition of the Purdue Invite. Last year, the women fmished last with a meager seven points, behind winner Illinois, Purdue (second place), and Southern Illinois (third place). 
Nonetheless, the Irish are confident they will improve on last year's score. 
"We are a better track team than we were a year ago," said Plane referring to this year's freshmen class and the more experienced upperclassmen. 
In addition, last year's winner, Illinois will not be at the meet, leaving more room for the Irish runners to place. Illinois' absence should not affect the remaining teams too much. 
"We are the ones who will be changing the complexion of the meet, not the other teams," said Plane. "None of the other teams will be making a quantum leap from last year. We are going to make the quantum leap." 

Leading the way will be a handful of returning upperclassmen including junior hurler Karen Harris, sophomore sprinters Latrice Waters and Kristin Stovall, and sophomore middle distancer Laura Guyer. Harris finished third in the shot put, Waters finished fifth in the 55-meter dash, Stovall finished sixth in the 400-meter run, and Guyer fmished tenth in the 600. 
Part of Pi!lne's "quantum leap" will be the contributions of several freshmen. Already proven they can perform in big meets, the freshmen are expected to continue improving. 
Sprinter Monica Cox, middle distancer Becky Alfieri, and distancers Kala Boulware, Eva Flood, Stephanie Jensen, and Kristi Kramer have scored points for the Irish in the Meyo Invitational and the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships. In the field events, Lisa Junek and Susan Maher should also be assets for Notre Dame. 
Happy Birthday Mommy. 
One more year to go! Have a great JPW. 
Love Your "Domers" Brett and Mary 
Come to Shoney's for our Bite-Size Shrimp Dinner-a hearty helping of shrimp fried in 100% vegetable oil, served with cocktail sauce, dinner bread, your choice of baked potato, rice or fries, and Shoney's All-You-Care-To-Eat Soup, Salad and Fruit Bar. It's a big meal at a small price1 



SHOREY'~ 
Remel)lber Shoney's Seafood Bar Friday and Saturday starting at 5:00 p.m. 
Available a1 pantcipaling resuurams. 
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 

Friday, February 14, 1992 The Observer page-~ 
SMC Swims above heads 
By CHRISTINE PENOTE Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Working on the "little things" in practice last week helped the SMC swim team keep the score closer than expected against University of Indianapolis on Friday, 128-98. 
The Belles knew Friday's meet was going to be tough. This is to be expected when a· Division III team competes against a Division II team. 
But Belles coach Dennis Cooper is impressed with how the Belles swam. Even after a strenuous week of practice, the Belles refused to give up. 
"The final score was close for a Division 11/Division III competition," said Cooper. "They have way more rrrepower than we do, but our girls stuck it out." 
Three of four seniors boast success in their last collegiate home meet. Senior captain Michelle Colburn swam her lifetime best in the 200 back­stroke, just one second short of the school record. 
Kathleen Gloski, another senior captain, also swam her lifetime best in the 50 and 500 free, while diver Carrie Cummins placed frrst on the 3­meter board with her best score of the year, 225.2. 
Junior Jennifer Danahy swam well in both the 400 IM and 200 breast. 
"I was pleased because my times are rmally getting back to where they should be," said Danahy. "It makes you feel good about yourself to know that you can swim that well even if you're as exhausted as we were." 
The team seems pleased with Friday's outcome. As Cooper eeplained, the Belles will continue to "improve on the little things," but still work on those fmishing touches. 
IllALUM~N:-1=====1 
...CLUB 
STUDENT MANAGER APPUCATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM UP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPUCATION DEADUNE IS FEBRUARY 21, 1992 
~y1n=.it:u lov;r.;-r 
pizza, two large sort drinks & one order of breadsticks 
$12.99 
Dine-in only. Exp. 2/23/92 
Up late at night? Pizza Hut now delivering midnight 'til 3 a.m. on Friday & Satirday to 
UND~dents 
~ 
For Delivery & I Carryout 232-2499 I Dine-in at I 
Downtown 
Baguer fences for perfection 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Sports Writer 
For most collegiate fencers, an undefeated season and a shot at the national champi­onship would be the ultimate achievement. 
But for Notre Dame senior Ed Baguer, his 30-0 record is only a start, and even though he is a safe bet to make the NCAA finals, he would gladly trade a gold medal for a team national championship. 
You see, fencing for the team and keeping a team-oriented attitude is nothing new for the North Newark, New Jersey na­tive. 
"Winning for yourself is great," says Baguer, "But it's even better to win and make everyone else on the team feel great, especially the guys who don't compete but work in practice every day to make you better." 
Irish head coach Mike DeCicco has coached hundreds of athletes during his 30-year tenure at Notre Dame, and even he gets the feeling that fencers like Ed Baguer just don't come along too often. 
"He has given so much of himself to his teammates," notes DeCicco, "that next year they're really going to wish he was still on the team." 
Baguer has had an especially important influence on the younger fencers on the team. 
"In my opinion, it's like hav­ing another sabre coach," says DeCicco. 
In addition to the leadership and emotional support he has 
r----­
Buy one medium 
Lover's Pizza and 
get another same 
pizza FREE 
I Pizza Hut 282-2543 I I or I 
I

Roseland (US 31N) 

277-2121 
Delivery/carry out only. Exp. 2/23/92 
~-;o;ca"; e-;;t ;,.;belli~ -; ~e­
1 

$4.99 1 cheese pizzas 
includes spaghetti, I 
salad and beverage. Sunday lla.m.-4p.m. 
~ ~ i 
$1o o o 
• 

~ 
:nut. 
Delivery/carry out & Dine-in 

consecutive 20-win seasons in his first two campaigns, Baguer felt he was not fencing as well as he could and was not completely comfortable. 
So he took three months off, and was able to clear his head and reduce the pressure he was putting on himself. 
When he returned, he compiled a 29-1 record his junior year and finished15th among top American fencers in the U.S. Nationals. It seemed he was rmally breaking out of the shadows of four-time Irish All-American Leszek Nowosielski, who graduated last year with a 97-2 career record, and his older brother, current ND senior and three­time sabre captain, Chris Baguer. 
Nowosielski and the older Baguer, who took up fencing three weeks after his brother, have always given him a con­siderable amount of competi­tion and inspired Baguer to work harder. 
"I always used Leszek as a benchmark," says Baguer, _ "And Chris and I, we've always 
tried to out-do each other." 
Although Ed has earned the upper hand this year, Chris did finish with a 27-4 record this season and has tallied 12 9 career wins, 29 more than his brother. 
But as the sun sets on Ed Baguer's last season at Notre Dame, with only the Midwest Championships and the NCAA's left, he would like nothing bet­ter than to team up with his brother and capture a fourth national championship for Notre Dame. 


_j 
, Women's hoops breaks out! 
BY RENE FERRAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
After Notre Dame had finished polishing ofT its 78-62 victory over Evansville in women's basketball last night, everyone had one word on their lips: relaxed. 
MWe were loose, relaxed, and confident tonight," said Irish coach MufTet McGraw. "It was a team effort for the rrrst time since the Detroit game (two weeks ago)." 
MEverybody just calmed down and relaxed," added forward Sherr! Orlosky, who chipped in eight points and three assists in 32 minutes of action. MWe knew what had to be done, and we did it." 
It was a balanced attack for Notre Dame (7-14, 4-4), which had six players who scored eight or more points-including four in double figures, led by senior Margaret Nowlin's 17 points. More importantly, Nowlin helped stymie Evansville's top Ace, Christy Greis. The Irish held Greis to just half her season average, as she struggled to seven points on three-of-nine shooting. 
MMargaret did a super job keeping her off the boards," said McGraw, Mand our ball pressure was so good that she had to come ofT the block to get the ball, and she's not as good out there." 
US Hockey pummels Finland, 4-1 

MERIBEL, France (AP) ­The undefeated U.S. hockey team is headed for the Olympic medal round for the rrrst time in 12 years after this afternoon's 4-1 victory over Finland. 
Tim Sweeney's breakaway goal at 13:55 of the second period snapped a 1-1 tie, Scott Young scored twice and Ray LeBlanc made 29 saves as the United States (3-0) continued erasing memories of seventh­place rmishes in the 1984 and 1988 Games. 
"It's a completely different feeling," said Young, who was also on the '88 team that got off to a 1-2 start. "We had a good team in '88. We should have been so much better. It was a major disappointment. This is tremendous." 
The victory gave America the inside track for one of the top two seeds in its group. Sweden, which played Germany tonight, is 2-0 and meets the United States on Monday in the preliminary round finale. Finland (2-1) also is expected to qualify. 
The top four teams in each group make the medal round. The last time the United States made the medal round was 1980, when the "Miracle on Ice" team won the gold medal in Lake Placid, N.Y. 
"Not taking anything away from Italy and Germany (the 
U.S. team's first two victims), but we feel Finland is one of the better teams in the tournament," Younrz said. 
MI was trying to front her, and when she got the ball, to get a hand in her face as much as I could," explained Nowlin. 
And with Notre Dame containing Evansville's top threat, the Irish blew open a close game late in the first half. After Greis picked up her second foul with 5:20 remaining in the half, Notre Dame scored the last 13 points of the half to take a 44-30 lead into halftime. 
The Irish kept the momentum up after intermission as well, going on a 16-4 run to start the half to build the lead to 26 points, 60­34, with 12:31 remaining. 
Notre Dame was helped by its ability to establish an outside game early. Orlosky hit her first three jumpers, and sophomore Coquese Washington buried two more, including one from three-point range, to allow Nowlin and freshman Letitia Bowen (10 points, 14 rebounds, four blocks) room to roam. 
Ml've been struggling a little bit lately, so when I hit my first couple of shots, it was a big boost for me and for the team," said Orlosky. 
MI think Coquese and Kara (Leary) play well together," added McGraw. MKara allows her to run the floor and not worry about running the offense, and I think that helps her game." 
However, after the Irish were comfortably ahead, their relaxed attitude allowed the Aces to come back and make it interesting down the stretch. Evansville (10-11, 4-4) hit five three-pointers in the last 12 minutes, rallying to within eight points, 70-62, with 1:40 left on Krista Blunk's third three of the night. 

But after an ND timeout, the Irish were able to break the Aces' press easily, putting the game out of reach for good by scoring the last eight points of the game on layups. 
MThis game was very similar to two or three other performances we've had this year where we bury ourselves and don't play good basketball until the game is beyond salvage," said Aces' coach Bill Barnett. MThe amazing thing was that this was still a winnable game for us near the end, and if we make a couple of plays, the game all of a sudden is real tight. 
MBut instead, we make the same type of mental errors that led us to our 26-point deficit. Winners make plays; obviously, tonight we didn't." 
Recently, Notre Dame hadn't been making those types of plays either. But after tonight, the Irish look for better, more relaxed days ahead. 
MEveryone was looking for each other," said Nowlin. "I hope this is an indication of what's going to happen for the rest of the year." 
Michelle· Dian 
21 years ago you were born. 
Happy Birthday! 
We love you and are so proud of you. Love, Mom, Dad, David, and July 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 
by THORNTON WILDER Directed by Mark Pilkinton 
Wednesday Feb. 19, 8:10pm Washington Hall Thursday Feb. 20, 8:10pm Reserved seats: $7 
Friday Feb. 21 •8:10 pm Student and senior citizen discounts Saturday Feb. 22, 8:10 pm are available for Wednesday, Sunday Feb. 23, 3:10 pm Thursday and Sunday performances. 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa Orders: call239-8128 

The Observer/Garr Schwartz Forward Margaret Nowlin lead the balanced Irish scoring attack. Nowlin had 17 in Notre Dame's 78-62 win over Evansville 




RAINBOW MUFRBI 
-NATIONWIDE­
MUFfi.BI MAN 
CERTIFIED Mt:.G.,IANIIGSr 
---RArNBOW CoUPON---T---RAINBoWCOUPON --fR.§~Catalytic Converter 101 • Lillie • Flier · . 
~~;~:ed sI I 95 :~=s~s!-~1 8888 ,
Installed SFCO Qladed ol. Most ca;s It.leets ..old & rww PLUS 
Icor opedlic:dcno lor TAX :;::.cwo & rogtu Expires 3130192 """"-'::.--=::=-----------~--'----------­



coiiverier :~ Rrroorilsc 
'INCLUDES: 
Brakes 
!·Install pads 
Back
85995 ::g;n:vu 82988 
Mosl Cars IExpires 3130192 
I Most American cars & lrucks 
--weHOOOrrurDriDfeMDiiiBr~ 
Guarantees 
•Midas •Tufty •Main •Discount •Fair 
Your name on the warranty is good for a FREE muffler! 

THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON 
1\8<£ ~E. srM-111, PEERING OO'I'IN -mE 1>\Z.Z.'l\NG D~Pn\5 OF 1):)01-\ DROP .' \X) WE 1\JRN ARCl\J~\) fl.~\) Rt:\REAT TD 1\-\E ST\JI£";~\~G S'i:C.\>1!.\~ 0~ 



CROSSWORD CAMPUS 
by Bill WaUerson 


OR 00 WE. BRt>-.~E. \1-\£ I)E.~T, R\'31:. lkM\S't., A!\D t:XI'E.R\t.~C£ 1\\t. ~tOOl> OF SC»\fl.IK Sffi':ifl.l\ol'l 1\1~T SCR~~S WE AA£ A\.\\1£, GlCl\1.\()\)':>\..i P-.L\'J'e, \-\()t.lt'JER 
TE:t-\t\:>RJI..R\\..'1 ?.? 
I 



ACROSS 
1 Lacking stiffness 5 "Perry Mason" aCtress 
9 Miss Gabler 14 Matinee ­15 Kind of exam 16-soup 17 Eclectic 19 Type of fish 20 Simultaneously 
(4 wds.)22 Prison place 23 Departure 24 Barber shop items 27 Technique developed
by Freud 31 Sorrow 32 Blackjack command 
(2 wds.) 33 Chemical suffix 34 Beverly Sills' 
forte 35 Houses in Seville 36 Dash 37 Author's outputs 
(abbr.) 38 Musical maneuver 39 Heavy hammers 40 Door opening 42 Hit the ­43 God of love 44 "Darn it" 45-remark 50 Shinbone 51 Having no more 
space (3 wds.) 53 Distribute 54 No, in Nuremberg 55 Aware of 56 Orchestra section 57 Head inventory 58 Mae ­
DOWN 
1 Fleur-de-­2 Concept 3 Shed 4 Excess 5 Vacation places 6 Ascend 7 Molten rock 8 Basic 9 Antagonistic 
10 Antagonism 11 Per­12 Deal out 13 Opposite of syn. 18 Tennis strokes 21 College events 24-Act 25 Concise 26 Poker bet 27 Path 28 Word said during a 

toast 29 Together (2 wds.) 30 Conmon­32 Piece of precipi­
tation 35 Perform like Crosby 36 Suffers humiliation 
(2 wds.) 38 Warnings of trouble 39 Recurrent theme 41 Sentence part 42 Orchestra leaders 44 Fasten again 45 Accumulation 46 Competent 47 Mr. Long 48 First-class 4g Plenty 50 Seaman 52 Bon ­
r-------------------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
SUB EXECUTIVE BOARD APPLICATIONS 

Applications can bt picked up at the Student Ooverrvnent recep~onlst"s desk (BAR B) and they are due by 
February 21, 1992 

Interviews are February 2 7 (SI9n up ror an Interview when you turn In your application) 
The positlona Include: 
Board Manager Director of MMketlng 
DirectorofP~~g 
Director olllelallona 
Friday 

6 and 9:15p.m. Film, "Dances with Wolves." Annenberg Auditorium. 8 and 10:30 p.m. Film, "Doc Hollywood." Cushing Auditorium. 8 p.m. A Valentine's Day Solo Recital. "Aspects of Love in Song," South Bend Chamber Singers. 
Haggar College Center Parlor, SMC. Call284-4626 for tickets and information. 
Saturday 
6 and 9:15p.m. Film, "Dances with Wolves." Annenberg Auditorium. 8 and 10:30 p.m. Film, "Doc Hollywood." Cushing Auditorium. 
Sunday 
3:30 p.m One Act Play, "The Last Word." Schyleen Qualls. Stepan Center. 
LECTURES 
7 p.m. Lecture, "The Survival of People of Color in the 21st Century," Dr. Jawanza Kunjufu. Room 127, Nieuwland. Admission free. Sponsored by Black Cultural Arts Council, Office of Minority Affairs, League of United Latin American Citizens and Hispanic American Organization. 
MENU 
' 

Notre Dame 
Beef Fajitas Baked Chicken with Herbs Broccoli, Cheese, Rice Casserole Homestyle Chicken Sandwich with Gravy 
Saint Mary's 
French Fried Shrimp London Broil Vegetarian Stuffed Peppers Chopped Steak 

IIARCH6-15 7 NIGHTS AT THE RAMADA INN 
FOR$1991! 
JBUS TRANSPORTATION INCLUDED! 
Conlact the Secntart., lhe Student Government Office, 2nd Floor l..aFor1i.r1e Student Center 
a CAlL 23!H668 
DEADLINE FOR SIGN-UPS 1S FEBRUARY 1411 
(A $75 DEPOSIT IS REQUIRED AT SIGN-UPS) 
NTf;.z
Campus Band Competition 
Saturday. March 21 Stepan Center 
Sign up your campus bands NOW II Leave information with BARB i:n the 
Student Government Office (2nd Floor or LaFortune) 

D•~ H•ll~w••4 
Pi"tcla y. February 14 Saturday, February 15 II PM & 10:30 PM 
Cu•htna Auditorium SZ Admi••ton 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 





Sports 
page 24 Friday, February 14, 1992 
Eck to host "Legends of Tennis" 


By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's junior-dominated men's tennis team will have an extra item on their Junior Parents' Weekend agenda as the Legends of Tennis roll into the Eck Pavilion for a dual match with the Irish. 
The Legends lineup will include Hank Pfister, Peter Fleming, Gene Mayer and Colin Dibley. John Lloyd was forced to pull out of the event after tearing a hamstring on Wednesday night. Brian Kalbas, who played at Notre Dame's number-one spot in 1989, will join Irish women's coach Jay Louderback to fill out the six-man Legends lineup. 
The idea for the event was presented to Notre Dame 
Contradictions arise in day three of Anderson case 

By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Editor 
Contradictory comments from Notre Dame officials and silence on the part of Assistant Athletics Director in charge of RecSports Thomas Kelly have left recent allegations brought by Bill Anderson Jr., former volunteer coach of the men's volleyball club, shrouded in mystery. 
Anderson was dismissed from his unpaid, volunteer coaching position in January 1991 after the University ac­cused him of falsifying infor­mation on an information form he was not asked to fill out un­til six years after starting the job. 
He was asked three weeks ago by the volleyball team to return to the coaching position, but the University refused his reinstatement. 
The event in question-an al-Jeged felony in 1981 that Anderson said was an error which has been legally ex­punged-was supposedly grounds for his dismissal after a University records check un­covered the incident. 

The dismissal came after he led the Irish to a 13th place finish in the NCAA club division national tournament in 1990 and four straight conference championships. Anderson was a two-time coach of the year in the Midwest Intercollegiate Volleyball Association (MIVA). 
One day after Roger Mullins, director of Human Resources, stated that a felony was not necessarily grounds for dis­missal or for the University to not hire a person, depending on the position involved, he de­clined further comment on the matter. 
"I have nothing to say," said Mullins. 
Mullins indicated Wednesday that his office could release all materials in Anderson's file if Anderson were to issue a re­lease to Human Resources. 
Yet Thursday, Mullins main­tained that Human Resources had no official file on a Mr. Bill Anderson Jr., and that the pos­session of a release would pro­duce nothing. 
Adding to the confusion, Anderson alleged that Mullins told him Thursday morning that all files regarding his case had been given to Kelly and Rex Rakow, director of Security. 
Contradictory statements 

Mullins also suggested Wednesday that the University General Counsel might be the authority on whether a Notre Dame policy forbidding felons to have contact with students was an Indiana state or federal law. 
Upon questioning, Carol 

Macleod, Irish visit troubled Syracuse 


BY MIKE SCRUDATO 
• Sports Writer 
Early in the season Notre Dame coach John MacLeod said that this would be a year of ups and downs for his team. 
Thus far, his prediction has been right on the money, as the Irish have looked like a
• 
Final Four team at times, such as their 88-76 win over North Carolina. However, they have played like also-rans in other games, like in their 72-70 loss to Detroit-Mercy. 
On Tuesday, the Irish snapped a three-game losing streak and improved to 8-11, as they defeated Stanford, 64­
63. Notre Dame hopes to continue its current ascent tomorrow afternoon at 4 p.m. when it takes on the tenth­ranked Syracuse Orangemen at the Carrier Dome. The game will be nationally telecast by NBC. 
The Orangemen enter the contest at 16-4, 8-4 in the Big East, and are coming off an 86-76 loss to 25th-ranked Seton Hall on Tuesday at the Meadowlands. However, 
John Macleod 

playing basketball might not be the only thing on the minds of the Syracuse players. 
On Wednesday, Syracuse officials sent the NCAA a report in which they acknowledged at least 15 rules violations in its men's basketball program. The violations do not involve head coach Jim Boehiem, but rather team boosters. 
"I'm pleased that they came to the conclusion that there's no systematic intent to violate NCAA rules," Boehiem said. "That's something we've maintained from the very beginning, and I think the violations that were discovered were isolated incidents." 
Though none of the coaches were involved, Syracuse still faces NCAA sanctions. 
On the court, the Orangemen are led by senior forward Dave Johnson and freshman forward Lawrence Moten. 
Johnson, who might be remembered by Irish fans because of his hand gestures at the conclusion of last season's 70-69 Syracuse win at the Joyce ACC, leads Syracuse in both scoring and rebounding. He comes into the game averaging 21.1 points and 7.1 assists per game. 
Moten (18.5 ppg, 6.8 rpg) is the leading candidate for Big East Rookie of the Year and is the primary reason the Orangemen have surprised so many with their 16-4 record. 
Tabbed by most as a fifth place team in the Big East at best, Syracuse opened the season by winning its first nine games and is currently leading the conference, a half-game ahead of Georgetown and Pittsburgh, who are both 7-4 in Big East play. 
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
coach Bob Bayliss by Peter Bower, a South Bend native who, with Legend Colin Dibley, represents over forty former tennis stars. Bayliss is eager to see how his team will perform against the group. 
''I'm excited about it and I really don't know what to expect," said Bayliss. "We don't really know if they're better than we are." 

Bayliss' uncertainty is understandable. According to Bayliss and Bower, the event marks the first time that a college team has ever faced ofT against a professional team. In fact, no professional tennis star has played in South Bend since John MacEnroe played Vitas Gerulaitis at the Joyce ACC in 1984. 
"Over the past few years we've done a lot of things to bring quality tennis to the South Bend area, but this might top all of them," said Bayliss. 
Indeed, both the Legends of Tennis and the Irish will bring impressive credentials to the Eck tomorrow afternoon. The group of four former professionals competing for the Legends has won a total of nineteen Grand Slam titles, while Notre Dame's team boasts three players ranked in the collegiate tennis' top 50. 
"They (the Legends) are very intelligent players," said Bayliss. "They're more seasoned than the college players we play. Hopefully, we'll learn something. Similarly, we're younger, more fit and right in the middle of our dual match season." 
In fact, the last two weeks have provided a lull in the Irish 
see LEGENDS/ page 16 

Kaesebier of General Counsel reiterated Mullins' statements. 
"I spoke to Mr. Mullins," said Kaesebier, "and what he said was that it is University policy not to hire convicted felons, especially if they will have con­tact with students. He went on to say that he did not person­ally know if it was also a fed­eral or state law. I do not know if it is a federal or state law." 
Kaesebier's statements, how­ever, seems to contradict Mullins, who said that the presence of a felony on a record was not necessarily grounds for dismissal from the University or for the University to not hire someone. 
"I'm not familiar with it," said Mullins, "but RecSports says it's the law." 
Rich O'Leary, associate direc­tor for RecSports, stated that Mullins would be the authority on such regulations. 
"I think that Human 
Resources could answer that question," said O'Leary. 
Furthermore, the statements made by Mullins appear incon­gruous with the statements made by O'Leary and Thomas Kelly, assistant director of RecSports, who have main­tained that the decision to ask Anderson to cease serving as volunteer coach was made by themselves in conjunction with Human Resources. 
Kaesebier finally indicated that Indiana statutes might provide information on the le­gal status of requirements re­garding the contact of felons with students. 
Police charges and University silence 
Mullins further refused to comment on allegations made by Anderson that he had told Anderson that his file had been given to Kelly and Rex Rakow. 
Rakow, however, stated that 
see Day Three/ page 18 


The Observer/Eric Bailey Point-guard Elmer Bennett, shown here against Stanford, and the Fighting Irish head to Syracuse to face the Orangemen. 







