

~.~~t .g~. 
tA42·1902 

. l!ft-­

eObserver
Sf: SQUtCE NTE NNIAL 
Samt Mary's College 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 

VOL. XXIV NO. 116 TUESDAY , MARCH 24, 1992 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


Carters given first annual ND Award 
By ANDREW RUNKLE Business Editor 

Former President Jimmy Carter and his wife, Rosalynn were presented with the first annual Notre Dame Award for international humanitarian service at the Stepan Center yesterday evening. 
University President Father Edward Malloy presented the award to President and Mrs. Carter. The Carters received a custom-designed, inscribed Steuben crystal memorial of the Notre Dame Award. 
"We intend this new award to provide prominent and lasting recognition of international humanitarian service," said Malloy. "We can think of no finer examples of such service than President and Mrs. Carter." 
Carter, who served as the 39th U.S. President from 1977 to 1981. then presented a lec­ture which focused on inquiry, belief. and community-the three themes for the University's Sesquicentennial Celebration. He related these 
Evaluation yields no immediate clues in USAir crash 
NEW YORK (AP)-A quick evaluation of the cockpit voice recorder yielded no clues on the crash of a USAir jetliner at La Guardia Airport, a federal of­ficial said Monday. At least 26 people were killed. 
John Lauber. a spokesman for the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), told a news conference Monday evening that investigators had listened to the recorder, one of two retrieved Monday from the wreckage of Flight 405. 
"At this point there's nothing that leaps out based on that very quick listen," Lauber said of the initial review of the voice 
• Flight's final moments/ pg. 9
recorder. The plane had just lifted off "I was amazed so many peo­
the ground, witnesses said, 
ple survived," said Fire Capt.
when it crashed back onto the John Kurtz, who arrived shortly runway, skidded over an em­after the crash. "There were
bankment into Flushing Bay bodies burnt to a crisp and
and broke apart. 

bodies cut in half, and thenThe nose, wing and engine there were people walking
snapped ofT and the rest of the around."
plane exploded into a fireball 
The survivors suffered in­
and skidded into the water with 
juries ranging from minor to
its top sheared ofT. 

severe burns in Sunday night's It appeared luck was all that crash.
separated the dead from the 24 A light snow was falling when injured survivors who waded the plane took ofT at 9:30 p.m. It ashore. One passenger was still had been de-iced twice, at 8:29missing Monday. 
ND reorganizes physical plant 
By PAUL PEARSON Associate News Editor 
In a reorganization of the ND physical plant department, the University has appointed Michael Smith as director of facilities engineering and Gary Shumaker as director of facili­ties operations. 
Smith and Shumaker take over the duties previously held by Donald Dedrick, who retired in February. 
The regrouping was an effort to consolidate the resources and leadership of the physical plant, according to Tom Mason, vice president of busines!i affairs. 
Before the changes, the re­sponsibilities of the physical plant was divided between Dedrick and Col. David Woods, director of support services, Mason said. 
According to Mason, this produced a lot of unnecessary duplications. "Some of the maintenance people were re­sponsible to Don, and some of those people were responsible to Col. Woods." 
Although two people, Shumaker and Smith, will be reporting directly to him, Mason is counting on a team of four people-Shumaker, Smith, Woods. who will report to Shumaker, and John DeLee, di­rector of utilities, who will re­port to Smith-to make sure things get done. 
"The four of them will work together to get the job of the physical plant accomplished," Mason said. 
Shumaker. who was assistant director of physical plant under Dedrick, has been at ND since 1980. He will oversee such de­partments as fire safety, main­tenance, grounds services and support services. 
"We're bringing together three different groups of people (Handymen, General Services. and Support Services) all doing the same jobs," Shumaker said. 
Shumaker hopes that the 
changes will help his depart­ment serve the University more efficiently. "We hope to give better service to our users and funnel all our semi-skilled jobs through (the same) depart­ment." 
Smith, a 1971 graduate of Notre Dame, will oversee con­struction, renovations, utilities and facility planning. He had been the University's director of maintenance since August. 
The projects begun under Dedrick, including construction on the new DeBartolo Quad, will "continue to be done the way they were done before," Smith said. 
With the changes, Mason hopes that this confusion will be eliminated. "The hope is that now, when someone has a maintenance problem, they can call one number. only one req­uisition will be filled out, the process will go through only one loop, and a lot of duplica­tion will be eliminated." 
three issues to the work being done by the Carter Center, a nonpartisan organization which has, throughout the world, improved medical treatment and the environment, increased food production, and mediated civil conflicts. 
Carter said it is the role of the Carter Center to focus on "the wide range of conflicts in the world which are not presently being addressed." 
Throughout his presidential term, Carter was a human rights advocate, a dedication which he emphasized through­out his speech last night. President Carter's influence in human rights has continued after his presidency through the programs organized by the Carter Center. He emphasized the United States' responsibility as a wealthy nation to help the developing nations of the world. 
"We didn't invent human rights," said Carter. "Human rights invented America." 
One of the more influential and well-known programs of 
see CARTER I page 6 
p.m. and at 8:59 p.m., USAir President Seth Scofield said. The plane left the gate a minute later. 
The buildup of ice can distort the shape of an aircraft wing and inhibit its ability to lift an airplane. 
Patrick Silver, who watched from his home. said the plane appeared to flip over "three or four times before it went into the water. ... It lit up the living room. It was a huge fireball." 
Survivors included Richard Lawson, who plays Lucas Barnes on the television soap "All My Children." He escaped from a submerged section of the plane and walked ashore. 
"I was in this tunnel of ripped-up metal. It ·was like a metal cage. I was inside the fuselage and it was ripped to shreds," he said. 
Another passenger, who iden­tified herself only as Laura, said that in the instant after the crash she found herself "floating in the water, because those seats float. I opened my eyes, but there was no plane over me. I was next to it." 
But inside the fuselage, divers 
see CRASH/ page 6 

Mary Beth Irvin, a senior fine arts major specializing in ceramics and sculpting, works on her sculpture in Riley Hall of Art and Design. 
-~---~------------------------------~----~--~--~ 
page2 Tuesday, March 24, 1992 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Choose a major for the rigtit reasons 
"Child, stop playing 
around and get to work. 
You've got to start doing 
something with your life." 
"But Dad, I'm only eight­
and-a-half years old!" 
Pressure to do 
something with our lives 
and be "somebody" often 
times begins in childhood. 
I can remember my 

parents, other people':1-------­
parents, teachers, coaches, peers and even the 
Army telling me to be all that I can be. 
Sounds great, but be all of what? What 
exactly do people mean when they say things 
like "Start doing something with your life," and 
"Be all that you can be?" 

Who knows at age eight or even age eighteen 
what we want to do with our lives and what 
kind of person we want to be when we've grown 
up. 

Who says we ever grow up anyway. Life doesn't end when we reach adulthood. Life is a growing process designed to be full o challenges and changes. 
People don't or shouldn't reach adulthood and enter into some kind of fixed state of being. 
In other words, there is always time to change one's mind, try something different and be anything or anyone at any point in life. 
If this is true, then why do so many college students feel unbearable pressure to figure out what they want to do with their lives once they graduate from school and enter the "real world." 
As college students, we must choose a major and inevitably decide upon a specific career path we wish to follow. Because of the necessary requirements and certain number o credits we need to graduate, it is sometimes difficult to switch majors. 
Therefore, what we decide to study in college and what career path we choose seems to be set in stone. 
This is not necessarily true. 

Many people switch majors in the middle o their college careers. Some people make such radical changes that they switch from engineering to government or business to American studies. 
Choosing or staying in a major outside of one's true interests may be a grave mistake and a waste of time, money and energy. 
The philosophy behind this idea is simply i you don't like what you're doing, don't do it, because you're just going to make yoursel miserable. 
If it seems too late to change one's major, there is always the option of summer school or the five-year plan. 
What could be a worse case scenario is sticking with a major you hate or find dull and ending up in a job you find utterly boring and unfulfilling. 
Going through the hassle of switching a major, possibly attending a summer term, taking classes and getting a job you find stimulating and enjoyable could be a better long-term decision. 
The choice is yours. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 

Production: VIewpoint: Cynthia Ehrhardt Cheryl Moser Melissa Cusack Guy Loranger Lab Tech: Accent: Pat McHugh Laurie Sessa News: Cheryl Moser Frank Rivera Gerrie Hamilton Pete Loftus Graphics: Jennifer Habrych Eric Kreidler Sports: Systems: Rich Szabo The Czar 
Bert and Ernie 


WORLD 
Unfair sractices in Japanese prisons · 
NATIONAL 
Parents abandon daughter on highway 
•BECKLEY, W.Va. -An 11-year-old told police her parents left her barefoot by the side of a highway because she didn't want to join in a suicide pact and "go with them to heaven." Police said they didn't know where the couple were going or how they planned to commit suicide. Lorne W. Cooper, 27, and Cassandra Cooper, 30, of Woodbridge, Va., were jailed Sunday on charges of child abandonment and being fugitives from justice, police said. The fugitive charge came because they crossed from Virginia into West Virginia after leaving the girl, police said.Candice was picked up Saturday by a preacher who was driving by on Interstate 77 near Rocky Gap in West Virginia, Whittemore said.The Coopers were arrested about nine hours later, 60 miles away on Interstate 77. 
OF INTEREST 
INDIANA 

Wabash votes a~ainst admitting women 
•CRAWFORDSVILL , Ind. -The trustees of one of the nation's three remaining all-male liberal arts col­leges have reaffirmed their opposition to admitting women to the western Indiana school. Wabash College's 25 trustees voted unanimously Sunday against admitting women, saying the 160-year-old school remains a place where "tradition is more highly valued than trend." The approximately 650 Wabash students who crowded into the college's chapel cheered after the trustees' announcement, college spokeswoman Susan Cantrell said. Last week, the student senate had voted unanimously to recommend against admitting women because many of them said they chose the school specifically because it was single-sex. The trustees' vote was the result of a two-year study into converting the college. 
CAMPUS 

NO graduate dies of cancer 
•Notre Dame, IN-Terrence Hipskind, a 1991 graduate of Notre Dame, died of cancer Sunday in Fort Wayne. Hipskind, an economics major who lived in Alumni Hall, had been living with his parents in Fort Wayne since graduation. Visitation for Hipskind will be held today at Mungovan and Sons Memorial Chapel in Fort Wayne from 2-5 p.m. and from 7-9 p.m. The funeral Mass will take place Wednesday at 11 a.m. in Saint Peter's Catholic Church, 518 Dewald Street, in Fort Wayne. Father Andre Leveille, rector of Cavanaugh Hall, will deliver the homily at the funeral Mass. 
•Air 
Force ROTC in conjunction with a representa­tive from the United States Air Force will meet with stu­dents in the library Concourse from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. to­day. 

•catholic 
Volunteers In Florida will be holding a video presentation in the Center for Social Concerns at 4 


p.m. Anyone interested in at least 1 year of volunteer work is encouraged to attend. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ March 23 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 156,634,521 226.41 
0.55 .nw......_S,&I COMPOSITE 409.91 ~ 1.39 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3272.14 ~ 4.25 

PRECIOUS METALS GOLD • $ 0.0 to $338.50/oz. 
SILVER -$r 2.5¢ to $4.107 /oz. 
•Notre Dame Right to Life will be having an or­ganizational meeting to discuss upcoming events tonight at 7:30p.m. in Montgomery Theater of LaFortune. 
liThe Student Art Forum will meet tonight at 7:30 
p.m. at the Snite Museum of Art. 
liThe "Give Kids a Chance Coalition" will have an organizational meeting at noon on Wednesday in the Sorin Room (LaFortune Center). 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1958: Rock-and-roll singer Elvis Presley was inducted into the Army in Memphis, Tenn. 

• 
In 1976: The president of Argentina, Isabel Peron, was deposed by her country's military . 

• 
In 1980: Archbishop Oscar Arnulfo Romero, one of El Salvador's most respected Roman Catholic Church leaders, was shot to death by gunmen as he celebrated Mass in San Salvador. 

• 
In 1989: The nation's worst oil spill occurred as the supertanker Exxon Valdez ran aground on a reef in Alaska's Prince William Sound and began leaking 11 million gallons of crude. 


The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
~ 


_,_________________________ 
Tuesday, March 24, 1992 The Observer page3 
Report: Clinton lost cash in deal 

NEW YORK (AP) -Bill Clinton and his wife, Hillary, lost at least $60,000 on a real estate investment with a former Clinton aide who later owned a troubled Arkansas savings and loan, according to a review re­quested by the Democratic front-runner's campaign. 
Clinton, the Arkansas gover­nor, asked an attorney friend to conduct the review after The New York Times reported on the investment and raised ques­tions about the Clintons' illl­volvement with another friend whose business was subject to state regulation. 
Clinton has said there was "nothing inappropriate" in the deal. The report drew no con­clusions on whether the invmit­ment was appropriate for the Arkansas governor, and only addressed his personal financial stake in the investment. 
The Times article said the Clintons were 50 perce:(}t shareholders in Whitewater Development Corp. but were at little financial risk in the ve (}­ture, a failed plan to develop about 200 acres in the Ozarks. The Clintons entered the deal with James and Susan McDougal. James McDougal is a former Clinton aide who was president of Madison Guaranty savings and loan. 
The review released by the Clinton campaign late Monday said the Clintons "invested, loaned, or otherwise advanced" to Whitewater Development approximately $68,900 since the venture began in 1978 and have never received any return payments from the deal. 
The report said Whitewater had an outstanding mortgage of $10,400 plus accrued interest for which the Clintons are joint guarantors. 
The report confirmed a seg­ment of the Times account that said the Clintons improperly claimed interest deductions on 1984 and 1985 income tax re­turns to which the corporation was entitled, but not the Clintons' personally. 
Because of that error, which the Clintons' acknowledged in the Times' and subsequent re­ports, the Clintons improperly realized a tax benefit of $2,156, said the report, conducted by the Denver accounting firm o( Patten, McCarthy & Associates, which was retained by lawyer James Lyons, a Clinton friend. 
The firm said it believes its representation of the Clintons' financial stake in the venture was correct although it said some documents relating to the investment were not available for its review. 
"Even though you were a passive shareholder, you as­sumed considerable financial responsibility for a corporation whose liabilities exceeded and continue to be greater than its assets," Lyons said in a letter to the Clintons accompanying the accountants' report. "The facts confu·m that not only was there always the potential that you would lose money, you in fact lost significant sums." 
Lyons' letter said that as of May 1991. the end of its last fiscal year, Whitewater had a negative value of $118,000, half of which was Clinton's interest. 
ND begins ~)outh Bend tutoring program 
By JOHN CONNORTON Dame junior Yolanda Lawler program. 


News Writer 

The Southeast Notre Dame Coalition held an Open House 
The Observer 
yesterday to inaugurate a tu­toring program for children in 
is now accepting application for the 
following position: 
the Southeast Neighborhood of South Bend. Among the featured speakers was Jerome Bettis who, along
Accent Copy Editor 
with other concerned student­atheletes, gave his time in order to help the Notre Dame/South Bend community. 
The tutoring program was the
lease submit a one-page personal statemen 
brain-child of concerned community members who were

to Jahnelle Harrigan by 5 p.m. on Friday, 
anxious to help the 
neighborhood youth. The group contacted the 
March 27. Call Jahnelle Harrigan at 239-5303 

for more information. 
Black Cultural Arts Council (BCAC) which, along with Notre and graduate student Joan Martin, began to organize a program designed to aid in the education of local youths. 
The tutoring center is open to children from elementary school to eighth grade two days a week, from 5-6 p.m. The Revelation Church, on the corner of Pennsylvania and Rush Streets in South Bend, was chosen as the site for the 
The program is not just de­signed to be run local neigh­borhood adults, said Lawler. She emphasized that it was in fact "being run by different people from the neighborhood and Notre Dame students." 
Although the tutoring center was opened yesterday, the program does not officially begin until Wednesday. 



No gain.No pain. 
Keeping your weight at a moderate level may scale down your risk of heart attack. So maintain a healthy diet and lighten up on your heart. 


page 4 The Observer Tuesday, March 24, 1992 

Speaker discusses upcoming election, crisis of state 
By CHRISSY HALL News Writer 
Americans, confronted with deep-seeded worries about the 
U.S. economy, approach the upcoming fall election in a mood of exasperation and anx­iety, according to Wilson Carey McWilliams, a prominent polit­ical theorist who lectured at Notre Dame Monday. 
McWilliams' lecture was titled "The Crisis of the State in the 1992 Election." The lecture, sponsored by the Program of Liberal Studies and the Government Department, ex­amined issues from the American past up to the current presidential campaign. 
The close of the Cold War turns us away from foreign af­fairs and towards domestic is­sues, said McWilliams. He pointed out that President Bush's drop in popularity re­flects the American public's de­sire for the government to focus less on foreign policy and more on the dire state of the economy. 
Certain factors, such as the 20 percent decline in the middle class and the permanent disso­lution of white collar jobs, indi­cate that Americans' fears are not unfounded, said McWilliams. 
Despite the need for changes, the people distrust the government to make major al­terations in policy. Therefore, said McWilliams, politicians make promises for tax cuts, which are more favored by the public. 
Professor McWilliams also examined the possible reasons for the century-long decline in 
voter turn-out as well as con­
stituents' lack of party loyalty. 
According to liberals, said McWilliams, voting is barri­caded by the registration. He pointed out, however, that this explanation falters if you look at the sixties, when there were tremendous barricades for black Americans voting in the South but a larger voter turn­out. 
Conservatives, on the other hand, attribute voter decline to governmental intrusion, said McWilliams. This theory, ac­cording to McWilliams, does not stand up to the comparison of other countries' governments that are reportedly intrusive. 
In order to further under­stand the concept of state, along with its advantages and limitations, McWilliams defined state, ethnos, and polis in Hegelian terms. "A state," said McWilliams, "is a political soci­ety in which the members are subject to the law and who hold rights." 
"An ethnos society assigns rights to its citizens, but its cit­izens are limited to a specific race, tribe, or culture, said McWilliams. "Rather than fo­cusing on laws, it focuses on who you are. 
"A polis, crudely translated as a city-state," continued McWilliams, "is defined by the citizenship shared by its inhabi­tants. This citizenship involves sharing in the rule of the polis as well as possessing a voice instrumental in the deliverance of these laws." 
Proponents of the "state," according to McWilliams, would assert that both the ethnos and the polis societies are too restricted. The ethnos excludes different ethnic groups while the polis is too limited in resources, he said. 

"The state," said McWilliams, "appeals to the universal equality of natural rights and possesses resources as well as power." Moreover, the state can protect its citizens because of the use of its military power inside and outside its borders and its ability to enforce law within the state. 
At the same time, asserted McWilliams, the state lacks the dignity of the polis. "The voice of each citizen in the polis be­comes mere representation in the state," said McWilliams. Also, the state can ultimately lose its military mastery and can fail to protect its citizens. 
McWilliams used the United States as an example. United States military mastery means little now that the Cold War has ended. The increase in private security systems also indicates that the police are not adequate in protecting American citizens. 
Doubts about the state, said McWilliams, necessitate con­cern for our future as a nation. Compounded with these uncer­tainties is a loss of interest in American politics. 
"There is no indication that our vote counts for anything due to the large population. 
More and more count for less and less," said McWilliams. 
Rather than using votes to reflect our opinion, McWilliams spoke of the numerous opinion polls and of campaign contri­butions that Americans donate. Yet, according to McWilliams, random polls and donations cannot successfully indicate the true beliefs of the American public. 
McWilliams does, however, have some ideas about reinvolv­ing Americans with political life. 
"We can try to refurbish in­stitutions that link us with the government," he said. "Also, we must attempt to strengthen lo­cal parties. Local forums would connect candidates' names with faces and personalities. Ultimately, we must realize that as citizens, not just as voters, we can make a difference." 
AT THE RONKIN EDUCATIONAL GROUP OUR CLASS SIZES ARE LIMITED TO NO MORE THAN 10 STUDENTS PER CLASS. SIGN UP NOW FOR PREPARATION COURSE FOR SUMMER ISAT 
'This example of personalized attentiOn IS Just one of the reasons our classes are filling up fast CaiJ now to reserve a seat. 
• 
40 Hours Of Live Instruction 

• 
Live Tutorial Available At No Extra Charge 

• 
National 800 Telephone Helpline 





Z73-18bt.
• 6 Diagnostic/Practice fuams 
ZZ7 US ~1 NORTH 


• Constantly Updated Materials 
Acrou from Knights Inn 
Suite Z10 

WE'LL MAKE SURE You MAKE IT. 

Special Thanks T11:
NATIONAL NUTRITION 
fta Sesquicentennial Student Activities
MONTH. 


Committee: 
Frank Agnostlno Suzanne Froasard
LOW-FAT, LOW-CALORIE 
Michael Allen Marc Hawk 
LUNCH AND DINNER SPECIALS 
Scott Boehnen Otis Jackoboice Kimberly Bray Jennifer Mc:Redmond Chris Churchill Jessica Raniszeskl
FEATURED MARCH 23-27 
Joe DIMario Marianne Ravry Stephanie Ferry Jill Saenger Rachael Flanagan Sarah WiiUams Scott Friedman

OAK ROOM 


The Dorm Representatives: 
SOUTH DINING HALL 
Mark Babka Mike Keverllne Brian Bird Ryan Browne Laura Niemann Aimee Lucas
CALL OUR MENU LINE --239-7518 
Renee Wenger Margaret Kenny Faust CaPobianco Sarah Holland Tom mtselberger Michelle Osmanskl BrlanRool Pete Fleming


SPRING SPECIAL 
Erika Undhjem ChrlsUang 
Emllo Silvas Katie'nebel
Haircut-S& 
Bob Nabers Amy Young Andy Veitch 'ftm Phelan Dan O'Connell Kristin Costello

VARSITY SHOP 
Bridget Zappa Rob Pritchard Ron Perez Trevor Moriarity Laura Martinez
52580 U.S. 31 North 2 miles no. of campus 277-8057 
Also Thanks To: 
Student Activities Janell Whalen Camelot Music Store Col. Doug Hemphill Tracks Witmer-McNeese

Expires 3/31/92 
Alison Baker Papa Johns Mendoza's Guitar Store 

Tuesday, March 24, 1992 The Observer page 5 

The Observeri£isa Kklsle!Trm 
One step away from Hollywood 
Caroline Brock and John Cook edit a film in preparation for an upcoming a student film festival entitled "Student World Premieres." 


Expert discusses Bible and relation to history 
By RYAN KERRIGAN News Writer 

The Bible is an intricately­woven mix of historical events embellished by Biblical writers, said Robert Alter, professor of Comparative Literature at the University of California, Berkeley, in a lecture Monday at Notre Dame. 
"It is hard to draw a line around any particular historical event with a piece of chalk," said Alter last night in the Hesburgh Library auditorium in a lecture titled "Imagining History in the Bible." 
According to Alter, not until the late 1800s was the histori­cal authenticity of the Bible se­riously challenged. This re­sulted partially from the rise of Deism, Empirical philosophy, and historical criticism. 
Generally, Biblical passages consist of "a fragmentary skeleton of history rather than an intelligible narrative." This skeleton, Alter says, is aug­mented "by a large welter of highly-indeterminate events," such as motivation, characters, symbolic interpretations, and quotes. 
Alter concludes that the most accurate way to define Biblical content is "historicized fiction; with an indefinite amount of fiction and yet a quality of being history-like." Alter says the Bible is "analogous to what Shakespeare does in his history plays. The freedom to invent the soliloquy is the freedom to reinvent the historical charac­ter." 
Alter used numerous exam­ples from the story of David to demonstrate the juxtaposition of fact and conjecture. Reciting a passage in which the private thoughts of Saul are revealed, Alter asked rhetorically, "How did the writer know what Saul said in his heart, the unspoken speech of Saul? He knew be­cause he invented it." Additional information was often also added to "arrange the historical facts in a symbolic pattern... to put the facts into a pattern of meaning." 
Alter said in summary, "The Bible is not a historically accu­rate narrative, but a historically profound narrative." 
Professor Alter will hold an informal seminar today at 3:00 in the Hesburgh Library lounge. The seminar is open to the public. 
P R INC I P L E S of S 0 UN D RETIRE,\\ EN T IN\' ESTING 

CUNY replaces 

fiery professor 

NEW YORK (AP) -City College of New York on Monday named a retired Yale professor to take over its Black Studies Department from Leonard Jeffries, who has been accused of making anti-Semitic and anti-white statements. 
Dr. Edmund Gordon was named chairman effective July 1, said college president President Bernard Harleston. His appointment is for two years. He will begin as a tenured professor, said school spokesman Charles DeCicco. 
Jeffries was reappointed to an eight-month probationary term last year rather than the usual three-year term. His chairmanship ends June 30. 
F
or retirement to be the time ofyour life, you have to dream a little -about the things you've always wanted to do: travel, explore, start a business. Just imagine... 
W1th a dream and a plan, you can make it 
happen. Your pension and Social Security should provide a good basic retirement income, but what about all those extras that make your dreams possible? You'll probably need some additional savings. 

THE DREAM IS YOUR OWN. WE CAN HELP YOU WITH THE PLAN. 
TIAA-CREF Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAs), tax-deferred annuities for people like you in education and research, are a good way to save for retirement and save on taxes now. SRAs are easy-you make con­tributions through your institution before your taxes are calculated, so you pay less tax now. 
You pay no tax on your SRA contributions and earnings until you receive them as income. And saving regularly means your contribu­tions and their earnings 


Ensuring the future for those who shape it:' 
can add up quickly. 

What else makes SRAs so special? A broad range 
ofallocation choices, from 
the safety ofTIAA to the 
investment accounts of 
CREF's variable annuity; 
no sales charges; a variety ofways to receive 
income, including annuities, payments over a 
fixed period, or cash. You may also be able to 
borrow against your SRA accumulation 
before you retire.* 

All this, plus the top investment manage­
ment that has helped make TIAA-CREF the 
largest retirement system in the country. 
So start dreaming and planning for the time ofyour life. Because the sooner you start your SRA, the greater your savings and your retire­ment will be. 
,----------­
START PLANNING FOR THE 
TIME OF YOUR LIFE, TODAY. 
For your free TIAA-CREF Supplemental 
Retirement Annuity Kit, send this coupon to: 
TIAA-CREF, Dept. QC, 730 Third Avenue, 
New York, NY 10017. Or calli 800 8-~2-2733, Ext. 8016. 
Nanu (Please print) 
AJJru.r 
Cit,v 
!nJtitultim (Full name) 
Title 
TIAA-CREF Partti:ipant 0 Y..s ONo 




'Depending upon your institution's plan and the state you live in. CREF annuities are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual & Institutional Services, Inc. C For more complete information, including chargrs and expenses, caJII 800 842-2733. Ext 5509 for a prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money. 




Titmice 

Kalamazoo 
ShowStarts At8 YM. Tickets on sale at all Ticketmaster outlets and the State Theatre box office. Charge by phone at (616) :345-6500. 

77CK5f~~ 

r--~-----------~------~----------------~----~--~~-­
Environmentally, the Carter Center has focused on the de­pletion of the earth which re­sults from improper farming techniques. The Center has un­dertaken a program in West Africa to teach correct farming techniques and also increase food production. 
Carter downplayed his direct influence in all of these areas. Throughout the speech, Carter repeated the following state­ment on the international influ­ence of the Carter Center: "It is not Jimmy Carter, it's not Rosalynn Carter, it's the Carter Center." 
He also recognized many of his colleagues at the Center who are responsible for direct­ing the programs to improve foreign conflicts and better the lives of the poor people throughout the world. 
Carter said that the Carter Center does not serve by dupli­cating work of other organiza­tions, rather it strives to find new ideas and new approaches to improve the world. 
Both President and Mrs. Carter hold honorary degrees from Notre Dame. Carter de­livered the 1977 Commencement address, at which time he received an honorary doctor of laws degree. 
Carter's 1977 commencement speech, a very controversial one 
pageS 


The Observer 


Carter 
continued from page 1 
the Carter Center is the Habitat for Humanity, a program which undertakes home-building pro­jects for the the poor world­wide. According to Carter, there are 700 communities which have Habitat for Humanity programs and the program encompasses 33 for­eign countries. 
Carter has also been influen­tial as a diplomat for peace in the past decade. He was influ­ential in resolving conflicts in Nicaragua, Panama, Haiti, and Ethiopia throughout the 1980s. The International Negotiating Network is a part of the Carter Center which monitors conflicts around the world and examines negotiation and mediation methods. 
The Carter Center has formed task forces on both child sur­vival and on disease eradica­tion. With the help of the Carter Center, the percentage of the world's children immunized from disease has risen during the 1980s from 20 percent to 80 percent. The Carter Center has now targeted polio and guinea worm as two diseases which it will try to completely eradicate. 
----~ 
Tuesday, March 24, 1992 
at the time, denounced the Soviet Union as the major driv­ing force in American foreign policy. He stated rather that human rights must be "a fun­damental tenet" of a foreign policy "that is democratic, that is based on fundamental values, and that uses power and influ­ence, which we have, for hu­mane purposes." 
Mrs. Carter received her honorary degree in 1987, as a result of her involvement with the National Cambodia Crisis Committee. She joined ND President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh on this committee which raised funds to fight starvation in Cambodia. Mrs. Carter currently serves on the advisory council of the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and delivered a speech last fall at the dedication of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Please Quit Smoking. 



Crash 
continued from page 1 

repeatedly found dead passen­gers noating head down, still strapped into their floating 
seats.  Some  were  charred;  
others  appeared  to  have  
drowned.  

The pilot, Wallace Majure II, was among those still strapped 
in. YOU ASKED FOR IT, YOU GOT IT..~ 
"We tried to cut him out but couldn't," said diver Bill Lake. "We were working against the ~ 

KARAOKE NIGHT at ~ 
tide." ~ ~ 
Divers carefully put each ~ body in a bag, placed it in a 

ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB ~ 
basket and lifted it to shore with a crane. "We tried to give 
IllALUMNI

them a little dignity in death," said Officer Tom Collins. 



~CLUB
lHI~JPJPY Birthday e~t Love, Mom, Dad, Lynn, + Stephen  EVERY WEDNESDAY IN MARCH OPEN AT :00 PM KARAOKE 10-2 If You Blink, You'll Miss The Big NeXT™ Sale.  
P.S. Kee on fencing! Lottery for Bulls Tickets in Senior Class Office 23rd 3-Spm, 24th 2-4pm, 25th 3-5pm Each winning number can buy 2 tickets@ $20 each for  Nearly 40% saving before March 31! Admittedly, we're not giving you a lot of time. On the oth­er hand, we're giving you one of the most extraordinarydeals you'll ever see: Purchase a NeXTstatlon™ Color computer. with 17­or 21­lnch Color Display and 400 dpl NeXT",.. laser Printer by March 31st. and get nearly 40% off the list price. Of course. even •at full price. the NeXTstatlon Color com­puter offers more than any other machine In Its class; 16-blt color. 15 MIPS. standard UNIXTM, 16MB of RAM. CO-quality sound. vast storage. true multitasking and the Industry's only true object oriented system software. With over 30 bundled applications. Including Mathemati­ca™. It's perfect for statistical analysis. In depth report wrltJng, mathematics or any use that demands true-to-life­color. And with hundreds of off-the-shelf applications to choose from. like WordPerfert™, lotus™ Improv™ and Soft­PC™, it's a perfect productivity machine as well. Visit the Notre Dame Computer Resale Center!  
the April 13th game vs. Atlanta Hawks  
Winners will be announced March 30. Umit 4 IDs per person.  0/992 NJTCOffi{JUier,l~~e. AU ri1hts mef'l"eti. NeXT,theNdr lop twi NeXfiltJJioft are t1Yilkmari.r ofNJTCompuler. lttC­UNIX;. 11 ~~ilkfrld ll'dikmari-ofUNIXSystmuUW. Mtldtemalica il•rq*rwl tradnrttrio{Mbl.fi'mn lhNOrck AllmN:r~wtmtu-ri bdotrt ro thrirrnp«tiw OW!Wn.  

Tuesday, March 24, 1992 The Observer page 7 
Libya offers to surrender Lockerbie bombi-ng suspects 
UNITED NATIONS (AP} -441 people died in the attacks. would now stop pushing for the Arab League and uncon­At an emergency meeting Libya has offered to surrender Libyan Ambassador Ali further sanctions. "We are ditionally surrendered" to U.N. Sunday in Cairo, the Arab two men suspected in the Ahmed Elhouderi announced waiting to hear that these peo­Secretary-General Boutros League urged the Security bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 the plan to turn over the ac­ple will take the actions they Boutros-Ghali. Council t(]l hold off on sanctions to the Arab League for eventual cused to the Arab League while are supposed to take," he said. Arria also said he understood and give mediation a chance to trial in the United States or talking with reporters at the Libya's government previously the men -Abdel Basset Ali resolve the dispute. Britain, the Security Council United Nations. has denied involvement in the Megrahi, 39, and Lamen Khalifa Arab diplomats said Boutros­president said Monday. "We hope this can put an end bombings and said its citizens Fhimah, 35 -"most definitely" Ghali had interceded with his 
The offer marked a major to this unnecessary confronta­were not involved. It offered to could be handed over for trial fellow Egyptian diplomat, Es­Libyan concession as it seeks to tion," Elhouderi said. hold trials in Libya, but that to the United States or Britain. mat Abdel-Meguid, the Arab avoid U.N. Security Council Elhouderi said it would be up idea was rejected by the United Boutros-Ghali said he believes League secretary general. economic and diplomatic sanc­to the 21-member Arab League States and Britain. · "the Arab League must receive A new Security Council reso­tions being pushed by the to decide the fate of the It was not clear whether the the two accused Libyans and lution would have clamped an United States, Britain and Lockerbie suspects -whether plan included the four men hand them over ... in the pres­international arms embargo on France. to turn them over to the United sought by France -which pre­ence of a U.N. representative." Libya for not cooperating with 
London and Washington seek States and Britain, or to a neu­viously had offered to send a The United States, Pickering British, French and U.S. extra­the extradition of the two tral country, or to the United judge to Tripoli, Libya's capital, said, has "no objection to turn­dition requests. Libyans for bombing the New Nations. to observe their trial. ing the men over to the secre­The resolution, still being ne­York-bound Pan Am plane over He did not say when they The Security Council presi­tary-general without conditions gotiated with other council Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988. would be surrendered. dent, Ambassador Diego Arria if they are turned over to one of members by the three allies, France seeks four others for the U.S. Ambassador Thomas of Venezuela, said he believes our governments." also woulld cut off commercial bombing of a French airliner Pickering was noncommittal on the suspects would be Egypt's foreign minister, Amr air links to Libya. It also would over Africa in 1989. A total of whether the United States "unconditionally surrendered to Moussa, had said earlier in urge nations to expel most 
Cairo that diplomatic efforts Libyan diplomats. were under way to persuade
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Libya to surrender suspects in Pickering said later Monday the bombings. He said a way that the resolution was still was being sought to leave possible. '"There is a little pause 

: SENIOR WEEK : 
Libya's leader, Col. Moammar now while we digest what it is Gadhafi, a face-saving way out the Libyans have to say," he of the conf.~ro=n=ta=t=io=n"-.-----'sai=d.:_.-----~-----t

~ STUDENT ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~  WORKERS NEEDED  ~ ~ ~ ~  
:  FOR EVENTS  :  
:  MAY 8-17  :  
~ "lt­ ~ "lt­ 
: ~  FREE ROOM AND BOARD IF SIGNED LJP BY MARCH 27  : ~  
~  ~  
~ ~  $ 5.80 PER HOUR  ~ ~  
~ ~  CATERING EMPLOYMENT OFFICE  ~ ~  
"lt­""'" ~  BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL  ~ ~ ~  

"lt-"lt-"lt-~"lt-~"lt-~"lt-~"lt-~"lt-~"lt-~~~~ 
THE THOMAS J. WHITE CENTER ON LAW AND GOVERNMENT 
PRESENTS 
HONORABLE ALEX KOZINSKI UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT 
ON "THE TOYOTA PRINCIPLE" 
THURSDAY, MARCH 26 
12:00 NOON 
ROOM 220-LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 

Happy /21st Birthday 


OOMPA 

Love, 
Barhara, 
Doris. 

+Phyllis 


page 8 The Observer Tuesday, March 24, 1992 
Convicted rapist, murderer hired as town mayor's aide 
CHESTER, Pa. (AP) -Mayor Barbara Bohannan-Sheppard took office on a promise to eliminate corruption and crime in this rough-and-tumble, blue­collar town near Philadelphia. 
And then, for her right-hand man, she hired Robert Hill ­convicted murderer and rapist. In the resulting uproar, the very serious problems of this city of 42,000 have been reduced to Topic B. 
"If he were in some quiet, al­most invisible position as a clerk, that might be different," said criminology and law Pro­fessor Marvin Wolfgang of the University of Pennsylvania. "But because he is so publicly visible, this issue is going to come up all the time. It won't go away.' 
Hill was 14 when insurance agent Patrick Izzo knocked on his door to collect on a weekly policy. Hill beat Izzo over the head with a hammer, stabbed him 17 times with a butcher knife and stuffed his body in the bedroom closet, where it remained until Hill's father dis­covered it six days later. 
"The purpose," Hill told Sub­urban Cable's Channel 31, "was to rob him." 
Hill declined an interview with The Associated Press. But he told Channel 31 that he and friends dared each other to be the first to commit robbery. 
"It evolved out of a dare," Hill said. "It wasn't anger, it wasn't dislike for the man, it was nothing really personal about it... 
Why had he repeatedly stabbed the man? "Because he wasn't dead yet." 
Hill pleaded guilty to ·murder and was sentenced to 10 and 20 years at a boys correctional in­stitution. After nine years, he was placed in a work-release program. But in 197 4, he was convicted of raping a 16-year­old girl in a parking lot. He served 3 1/2 more years for the rape and related charges. Hill claims the girl consented to sex. 
He said he has undergone a spiritual transformation since prison, becoming a Nation of Islam minister and father of four. 
He also said he is ashamed of his past. 
"Every life is precious and when you take someone's life for something like that, it's be­yond terrible," he said. 
SECURITY BEAT 
Unlver$ity Health Center. 

Sf 6 a.m. Two Notre Dame .officers questioned three Mn""'"",u' re$idents who were engaged in su:;;~JtctotJSI 
activity outside of the Notre Dame School and had stolen property in 
10:36 p.m. Notre Dame transported an injured off oampus from the JACC to St. Joseph's Hospital. 


Campus Ministry... 
••• Considerations 
irst fruit of a catholic education 

n the slums of Nairobi where I used to work, there were a dozen ifferent languages mothers used when speaking to their children at eeding time. The people had come from a variety of tribal backgrounds nd were pushed closely together in the urban jungle, where the men alked to the factories everyday in endless search of employment and 
he women stayed behind and sold small piles of vegetables on the treet corners to make ends meet. 
or many people in this new cultural situation -alienating, confusing, nd so fast-paced -it was only the church that provided a chance for a eveloping sense of community. Traditional enemies, forced now to live ide by side, began to find a compelling reason to trust and depend pan one another, to move beyond the limits of tribal loyalty, as they ere invited to live a new life together in the one spirit of Jesus, as the ne people of God. 
othing, of course, is easy, and the building of real community is the ask of a lifetime; but again and again we saw clearly how the Gospel mperatives of unity and reconciliation carried meaning and new hope nto the lives of our struggling people. 

he Gospel teaches us that we are all one -we live the same story of ife, death, and new life -and that no person or people can be held as nemy or as other. We are taught that this world is one family. We are aught that all divisions are from sin. We are taught that our call is to ive with a spirit of universal goodwill towards all, embracing all as 
isters and brothers. 

ow powerful this teaching is, how radical; and how easily it is robbed f its compelling implications. 
t seems to me that the recapturing of some of those implications might 
a long way towards giving Notre Dame, and the Notre Dame ducation, and the Notre Dame family, all the distinctiveness and sense f mission for which we seem so often to search. 
hat does it mean to be a Catholic University? A lot of things I uppose, but at least one thing, and perhaps almost the first thing auld be that we look at the world as God does, as we have learned 
rom the example of Jesus, as we have been taught by the Church: as ne home for one people. 
ur political science, our economic planning, our teaching of hilosophy, our life in the residence halls would all constantly seek to hape our students to an embrace of the whole world as one home and f all people as one family. We would love the children of South Bend s much as the children of Mexico City, as much as the children of 
Baghdad, and we would mourn the deaths of any of them or their loved ones as our own. When politicians play to our self concern and call us to protect ourselves from the refugee or the migrant, we would seek policies where no human is valued more than another and plans are made for the betterment of all. We might even see that nation-states, to a Christian, are not much more than big tribes, ca!ling us to loyalty and security and affection, but also often dangerously dividing us from one another and leading us to war. 
Years ago Father Hesburgh began to speak often of our world as Spaceship Earth. He knew it was one world, where the grand majority of the people sought the same simple goals. He knew it because his travels had taken him just about everywhere and he had friends in almost every country. But even more, he knew it because he had loved the Gospel and heard Jesus' call to unity. 
Students returning from various years overseas have tasted it. International students on campus teach many of us about it. In today's political climate of protectiveness and fear, such insight may seem cliche-ridden and naive. Yet how powerful it would be if all Notre Dame students really came to believe and guide their lives by a profound commitment to the unity of the human family. That Catholic insight and conviction would give us something to contribute to our ever more alienated society, and would be one of the most creative fruits of a truly Catholic education. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 

WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT THE BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
Sat. March.28 5:00pm -Fr. Stephen Newton, C.S.C. Sun. March 2910:00 am -Fr. Michaellllmes 11:45am -Fr. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, March 24, 1992 The Observer page 9 


Last moments before Flight 405~ disaster remembered 
NEW YORK (AP) --Capt. patches of snow on runway 13-tion's busiest airports, es;pe­plane's wings and body. Wallace Majure pushed the 31. It was a bit foggy. The tem­cially in bad weather. Just one Majure, in a very reassuring throttle on the twin-engine perature was 31 degrees; visi­more thing the passengers had voice before departure, com­Fokker jet for what should have bility was three-quarters of a to contend with. forted the passengers by saying been an 80-minute flight to mile. Five people were continuing he asked for a second shot of Cleveland. The Charlotte, N.C.-based on from Florida to Cleveland. de-icing just to be on the safe 
Instead, the plane barely flight crew was coming off a 16-Forty-two new ticket holders side, passengers said. made it to the end of La hour rest when it went to work walked down the La Guardia At 9 p.m., the plane pulled Guardia Airport's 7,000-foot Sunday afternoon. It took a gangway into their red, white away from the gate and made runway -one of the shortest in plane from the Raleigh-Durham and blue seats. its way to the taxi queue; it the country at a major airport airport in North Carolina to Among those boarding were waited nearly 30 minutes be­-before it crashed in a ball of Jacksonville, Fla., via Charlotte. Thora} and Virginia Mitchell of fore being cleared for takeoff. fire into the frigid, dark waters Then, it was on to New York Cleveland, who tried to outflank When Majure pushed the of Flushing Bay. before it was to continue to congestion at their scheduled throttle, the jet rolled down the 
Majure, 44, died. He had Cleveland. departure point in Westchester, runway. From passenger ac­8,000 hours of flying, including These short-to-medium flight north of New York, by counts, it struggled a few feet two years as captain of the distances are what the Fokker rescheduling from La Guardia. off the tarmac, then tilted to the Fokker F-28 Model 4000. His was designed for. This particu­Mitchell, 60, a physical ther­left and slammed back down on co-pilot, John Rachuba, with lar plane, one of 48 Fokkers apist, was a contestant Sunday the runway. Momentum drove it 3,500 hours of flight experi­owned by USAir, was relatively afternoon in a paddle tennis over a 10-foot embankment ence, was fished alive from the new, the airline said. Purchased tournament at Sleepy Hollow designed to hold back high plane after portions of it sub­in 1985, it had flown for 12,000 Country Club in Tarrytown. He tides. The plane's nose, one merged. hours. Its left engine was re­and his wife had visited with wing and an engine were 
Of the remaining crew, flight placed in 1990; the right one their daughter, Tracy, 32, of sheared off and scattered on attendant Debra Taylor sur­last April. Neither of the Rolls Bedford. the ground. vived with a broken leg. Her Royce jet engines had more Ticket agents balked at allow­"I was floating in the water colleague, Janice King, was than 3,000 hours on it, ing the Mitchells to change because the seats float. I killed. Schofield said. plans, but Virginia Mitchell was opened my eyes but there was 
Such is the fickle nature of Flight 405 was 40 minutes a lawyer. She argued until she no plane over me. I was next to disaster. This time 26 people late leaving Florida, taking off and her husband got booked on it," said a 23-year-old woman died, one was unaccounted for at 5:15 p.m. It landed in New coach seats on Flight 405. They from Solon, Ohio, who identified and 24 survived. York at 7:49 p.m., 66 minutes did not survive. herself only by the name Laura. 
"A terrible tragedy," said behind schedule. It was to have While the plane waited at its She was buckled into seat 4A, USAir president Seth Schofield departed La Guardia at 7:20 gate, it was de-iced twice with a a window seat. of doomed Flight 405, which and landed in Cleveland at 9:05. brew of glycol and water, at She said she found herself crashed at 9:30p.m. Sunday. Tardiness is not uncommon 8:29 and again at 8:5·9, standing in waist-deep water, 
A spring storm was leaving on any Sunday at one of the na-Schofield said. Crews hosed the helping another passenger with 
.............................................................. 

Join 

Bishop John Sheets, S.].
• 

• 




!• • 

Notre Dtlme''s Sacred 11eart 

• •
• h 
•
: 


March 25t 
: 
• 
•
: 

(Wednesday) 
: 
• 

•
: 


Feast of the Annunciation 
:
•

i• Queen ofPeace : •• : Mass : i• 6:00p.m. i• 
: (receive the March 25th messagt' :
.•• ._____________________________________________from Medjugorje!) __•• 
a broken ankle out of the plane. 
The woman said she didn't know how she got away so easily. "I don't know how. It's a miracle. I have a guardian an~ gel on my shoulder or some­thing." 
The first five rows ended up underwater in the bay. The wreckage was so twisted the fuselage was turned belly up and its top sheared off. The tail section, bearing the designation N485US, stood out at a crooked angle. 
One of the survivors was a soap opera actor, Richard Lawson, who plays the charac­ter lucas Barnes on ABC's "All My Children." 
He said he was submerged, freed himself and made it to shore where he was assisted by Port Authority policeman Albert Gachett. 
"He said, 'Help me,"' accord­ing to Gachett. "I said I'd help him, it'd be all right." 
Before the plane went into the water, a fireball shot into the air and engulfed most of the wreckage in flames. 
Corrections 

A campus brief in yesterday's Observer incorrectly listed the date of a concert by the University of Cincinnati Men's and Women's Choruses. The concert will take place today at 8 p.m at Saint Mary's Church of Loretto. 
Another campus brief in yesterday's edition incorrectly reported the date and time of a student report of a man illegally exposing himself. The incident occurred at 2:49 a.m. on March 18. 


Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle. 

-Thanks 
CONTESTANTS 
WANTED!! 
WIN A FREE TRIP TO LOS ANGELES ! 
EXCITING TV GAME SHOW SEEN ON LIFETIME NETWORK M-F 
AT 1:30 AND 6:30 P.M. 
••SHOP 'TIL YO'D DROP" 
YOU COULD WIN A FANTASY SHOPPING SPREE TO PARIS, ROME 
OR HONG-KONG PLUS INCREDIBLE PRIZES 
* IDEAL CONTESTANTS: 
lJNOERGRAD MALE & 
FEMALE TEAMS * 

PLaCE; HOLIDAY INN -515 DIXIEWAY 
NORTH ~ TUESDAY, MARCH 24 ~ 5 -9 P.M. 





Viewpoint 
page 10 Tuesday, March 24, 1992 
:-Ihe Observer=-= 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ......•....•......•.•• David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ..Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not ne~essarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor. Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
GSU President attempts to clear up March election controversy 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing to clear up a controversy which arose at the March 18 Graduate Student Council meeting. The con­troversy concerns how I was reelected as President of the Graduate Student Union. The elections were to be held on March 18. However, because I was the only candidate who had announced by the deadline, the chair of the Election Committee declared me President for the next year. 
However, when this was an­nounced, one person initially raised objections to this. His objections were several fold. He said, first, that the elections were not publicized properly. However, there were two adver­tisements in The Observer, it was announced at at least two Graduate Student Council meetings, and the elections were announced in two issues of Grad News. 
In fact, the application dead­line was extended an extra week when, after the· original deadline, there were no other candidates besides myself. 
Second, he said that the fact that the officers receive a small stipend was not publicized. While there was a slight over­sight in that in the first set of announcements this was not mentioned, this was rectified after this was brought up at the Council meeting in February, and a change in the announcement in Grad News was made to reflect this infor­mation. 
He said that he had brought this point up because he had talked with some people from his department earlier in the day who, after learning from him that these were paid posi­tions, had considered running. This information was publicized in Grad News and all members of the Council, including him, who are supposed to report back to their departments, had this information. 
Third, he, and two others, felt that even though there were no other candidates, there should have been an election. The Election Committee Chair's decision to name me as President in the absence of any other candidates was not without precedent. 
There have only been a couple of occasions where the position of President has been contested, and so in most cases the one candidate has been de­clared winner by default, since having an election with only one candidate would be a waste of time and resources. This hap­pened two years ago, and as far as I can remember, there was no protest from this individual or from anybody else. 
This individual was also on the Election Committee and, when told that, after the appli­cation deadline, I was the only candidate and would be de­clared the winner, said this was fine and did not protest this de­cision.While I think that all rules and procedures were ade­quately followed, at least a few graduate students believe that I was reelected President in an underhanded way. 
I greatly resent any implication that I broke any rules. However, since some doubt does exist regarding the process, I am calling an extraordinary election to remove any such doubt. 
The deadline for nominations will be March 30. There will be a forum for the candidates to discuss relevant issues with members of the graduate stu­dent community on March 31, and the actual elections will take place on April 2. In addi­tion, advertisements will be run in The Observer this week, and other efforts will be taken to publicize the election. 
I hope this election will erase any doubt regarding my appointment as GSU President for the coming year. I have enjoyed working for graduate student interests this past year and hope that I will have the opportunity to do so again next year. If you have any questions on this or any other issue please contact me at the Graduate Student Union office on the second floor of LaFortune. 
Kurt Mills GSU President March 19, 1992 
Medjugorje should be revered as 'event of the century,' not mocked 
Dear Editor:  Annunciation) where the gen­ Letter  by  Bishop  Michael  the Holy See in Russia, (also at  The  Holy  Father  sets  Fr.  
Our Lady's admonition "when  uine March 25th message from  Pfeifer: "If Mary is appearing at  the time the Apostolic Pro­ Griffin a good example. Even if  
God  gives  messages  to  the  Our Lady will be given.  Medjugorje, then all must heed  Nuncio in Yugoslavia), Msgr.  he doesn't care to report accu­ 
world it shouldn't be treated as  When asked what should be  her message, because she, as  Francesco Colasuonno: "Father,  rately the facts of Medjugorje,  
a joke, n is lost on Fr. Griffin. His  done  for  priests who don't  the  Mother  of God,  is  the  Medjugorje  represents  the  much less "with great respon­ 
March 6th column boarders on  believe in the apparitions, Our  Mother of truth and goodness.  event of the century! And we  sibility, with great conscien­ 
the sacrilegious: "I heard that  Lady said on Dec. 31, 1981:  If she is not appearing, then it  need to study it very well from  tiousness," it is important that  
Our  Lady's  message of the  "It is necessary to tell them  would seem the messages still  the theological and scientific  Fr. Griffin-as a Christian (and  
month for March to the alleged  that, from the very beginning, I  have a divine source and should  points of view." Fr. Gianni went  a  priest!)-show respect to­ 
visionaries was: 'Medjugorje  have been conveying the mes­ receive our careful attention."  on to tell the conference:  wards the conscience of others.  
means fine tobacco' ... Maybe the  sage of God to the world. It is a  (The bishop said that his con­ "We all know quite well how  Since he is determined to con­ 
priests at St. James can turn  great pity not to believe in it.  science forced him to write that  the events in Medjugorje are  tinue writing about Medjugorje  
smoking into a sacrament that  Faith is a vital element, but one  pastoral  letter  to  his  San  still under the judgment of the  I would like to invite Fr. Griffin  
will make the sun dance. n  cannot compel a person to be­ Angelo, Texas, diocese after  Church, and the Church is now  to attend, as our guest, the  
Since many of Fr. Griffin's ar­ lieve. Faith is the foundation  having conversed with the Holy  examining  the  facts  of  1992 National Conference on  
ticles are spread throughout  from which everything flows."  Father about Medjugorje.)  Medjugorje with great respon­ Medjugorje this Mother's Day  
America by Our Sunday Visitor I  Perhaps  Fr.  Griffin,  who  At  the  1991  National  sibility, with great conscien­ weekend (May 8 -10) at Notre  
suggest that in an attempt to  mocks not only Our Lady and  Conference on Medjugorje Fr.  tiousness. I myself spoke with  Dame. Perhaps we'll be able to  
report accurately on our Lady's  Medjugorje,  but also many  Gianni Sgreva, who had at first  the Holy Father, John Paul II. It  arrange a seat for him next to  
messages from Medjugorje he  faithful whose consciences im­ been skeptical about Our Lady's  was April 4, 1985. The Pope  Mother Teresa.  
join Bishop John Sheets in  pel them to respond to her call,  apparitions there, shared the  said to me,"Father, I pray ev­ Denis Nolan  
Sacred  Heart  Basilica  this  should listen to the advice given  advice he received on July 31,  eryday for a good outcome from  Queen of Peace Ministries  
Wednesday (the Feast of the  in a  1988 Diocesan Pastoral  1985 from the representative of  the events of Medjugorje.  Mar. 18, 1992  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  


"It often 'feels wrong' to double a number and square the result." 
Chemistry: Science of Change (Textbook) 
Ifit feels good, submit it: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 



Viewpoint
Tuesday, March 24, 1992 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Smoker begs 'Grand Inquisitor' to return freedom 
something you probably will not 
advantages, invariably leave too.
understand. 
out one? Why are you so firmly, so tri­Some people believe that man You want to build a national umphantly convinced that onlyonly does nasty things because 
research palace of crystal, a what is conducive to good
he doesn't know what's good for place where all our actions will health is for the advantage ofhim, and that if he were en­be tabulated ideologically ac­man? Perhaps man loves some­
lightened, if his eyes were cording to the latest laws of thing besides good health.
opened to his normal interests, correctness. Even now the fac­Perhaps he sometimes needsman would at once cease to do ulty is busy publishing these something besides good health. 
nasty things, would at once be­laws in edifying works and task Don't you know that mancome good and noble, would at force reports in which every­even loves suffering, even needsonce stop smoking. 
thing is so clearly calculated it, when it is a sign of his free­But you already know that and explained that people have dom or of his simple humanisn't true, don't you? That's why no excuse for acting against frailty. Man, with his wild, un­your precious Task Force has their own interest and advan­healthy freedom, is the one ad­gone to such lengths to help tage. vantageous thing your palaceme, even force me (if it were But frankly, I don't care a lick builders, your moralistic Task
politically feasible, which 
for your benevolent social Forces, overlook. He is alwayssomeday it might be), to stop conscience or your statistical overlooked.
smoking. After all, my true ad­charts of medical probabilities. Of course. Suffering would bevantage and best interest are I admit that two times two out of place in your palace ofobvious, right? 
making four is an excellent crystal, your smokeless,
Why do all these statisticians, thing, but two times two mak­cancerless kingdom. It is un­sages, and lovers of humanity, ing five can be very charming, thinkable; suffering wouldwhen they reckon up human 
NO encouraged to attend Colloquy 2000 
Dear Editor: Catholic higher education. Auditorium, room 122, on 
The 150th anniversary year The University of Notre Dame, Monday, March 30. He will treat of the University of Notre in its present state and this important issue against the Dame's founding is a fitting inasmuch as it strives toward a background of his own time both for the celebration of coherent vision, embodies, one institution and Ex Corde the university's success as an can say, one model of Catholic Ecclesiae. institution and a time to recall higher education. On a related note, Notre and give thanks for the heroic There are, of course, others, Dame's Jacques Maritain dedication to excellence in and in the spirit of openness Center has invited Dr. Alejandro Catholic higher education of and the free exchange of ideas Llano, rector (the European generations of scholars, admin­that is characteristic of the equivalent of president) of istrators, and, in particular, university environment, it Spain's University of Navarre, to members of the Congregation of would be wrong for Notre Dame Notre Dame to speak. Dr. Llano, the Holy Cross. to isolate itself from the one of Spain's most respected 
It is also a fitting time for re­experiences and perspectives of philosophers, has visited Notre flection on the present and fu­other Catholic universities Dame previously to lecture in ture course of the university, which embody other models of philosophy. such as is being carried out by Catholic higher education. This A recent appointee to the rec­the "Colloquy for the Year would be contrary too to the torship of Navarre, Dr. Llano 2000" and similar initiatives. appreciation for diversity which will deliver a lecture this What has and must loom large is characteristic of our time. evening, Tuesday, March 24, at in such reflection is the way To aid in this exchange of 8 p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Notre Dame is to understand ideas and perspectives on auditorium, room 122, entitled her Catholic identity. Catholic higher education, the "The University and Unity of 
Reflection on the Catholic Graduate Student Intellectual Life". He will speak of the identity of Notre Dame is timely Life Committee has invited Dr. integration of faith, intellectual not only in light of the univer­Robert F. Sasseen, Notre Dame life, and the formation of the sity's sesquicentennial anniver­class of 1957, to Notre Dame to whole person which serves as sary but also with the relatively speak. Dr. Sasseen, who the animating spirit behind his recent issuing (Aug. 15, 1990) received a PhD. in Political institution. of the Vatican document Ex Philosophy from the University The University of Navarre, Corde Ecclesiae, the Apostolic of Chicago in 1961, has been only forty years old but widely Constitution on Catholic since 1981 the president of the regarded today as one of Universities. University of Dallas, one of the Europe's leading institutions of 
This document, authored by interesting recent experiments higher learning, was begun in 
Pope John Paul II and aided by in Catholic higher education. 1952 by the Venerable a vast consultation of the The University of Dallas Josemaria Escriva, Founder of Vatican Congregation for opened its doors in 1956 under Opus Dei. Catholic Education with bish­the sponsorship of the local We encourage members of ops, Catholic university presi­diocese. Its current enrollment the Notre Dame community in­dents (including Notre Dame's is 3000 students, and it is an terested in the challenges fac­own Fr. Malloy) and adminis­institution renowned for its ing Catholic higher education to trators, is, in the Pope's own strong Catholic liberal arts attend. words, a kind of "magna carta" program at the undergraduate for non-ecclesiastical Catholic level. Dr. Sasseen will deliver a Mark Smillie universities. It provides an ex­lecture entitled "The Church, GSU cellent guide and touchstone for the University, and Academic Intellectual Life Committee present discussions about Freedom" in the Hayes-Healy March 22, 1992 to such a building!


mean doubt, negation, thought, However, show me somethingand what would be the good of better, something worthy of my
a deathless golden dome if 
humanity, and I will give upthere could be any doubt about even my smoking. 
it, or any genuine thought? 
You can exploit and manipu­You want a crystal palace, a late my fear of death, you canbrave new earthly world, one coerce my obstinancy, but you
that will never be destroyed-a 
cannot take them away. Therepalace at which one will not be is only One who can do that,
able to put out one's tongue 
and He doesn't build palaces of even on the sly, and in which crystal. But then, we all know one will not be even reluctantly what Grand Inquisitors think of 
tolerated to smoke. And per­
Him. To be sure, anarchy is ahaps that is why I am afraid, poor substitute for Christ, but itbecause I believe you really do is a damn sight better than yourwant to build such a kingdom, 
policy.
in which we will be saved from 
I told you I was a spiteful

our freedom, from lighting up, man, an unpleasant man. But I even on the sly. 
am a man, and so I shall re­
Nonetheless, I have hope. 

main.
Man will never renounce free­dom and suffering, never re­
Joel Barstad 

nmmce destruction and chaos; 
Graduate Student 

for sometimes these are all that 
March 16, 1992 

'!Distance and distrust' r1ot good for community 
DEtar Editor: It is healthy and good to be 
In a press release dated able to break out of the shells March 4, I referred to numbers our positions form around us, willich I believed came from a and to see ourselves as people esc internal report concerning living our lives, most struggling the percentage of homosexuals to do what is best. In that in the Order. I was informed by spirit, to all Administrators and my main source for that infor­students with whom I've argued mation over Spring Break that during the past year, including . it WAS NOT a CSC internal re­port, but rather, an estimate by Fr. Malloy, Fr. Warner, Prof. a high-ranking member of the O'Hara, Fr. Rocca, Sr. Lenz, Fr. Order. McDermott, Fr. Levier, Fr. 
Before Spring Break, I Lewers, and Michael Garvey thought that the numbers had ... I take this moment, before some weight behind them (a re­the struggle continues, to salute port, somewhere, which, at this the service you give (and have point, seems not to exist at all). given) to Notre Dame. Now, I can honestly say that the I publicly acknowledge your numbers I used are no more dedication to the University, than rumor. I apologize for which continues unwaveringly, passing on such flimsy infor­even in the face of harsh mation. criticism. 
Please make note of this cor­Despite what I have angrily rection. said in other places, I do believe I would like to make one that you have the best interest other point. of gay and lesbian students at In the zeal to forward one's heart (even when your intention cause, oversights can some­has been upset by mistaken im­times be made. The above er­pressions about homosexuality ror is of that variety. and the group I represent-and 
However, a greater mistake the struggle resumes). can also be made, when I do believe Notre Dame is struggling with others over a becoming better as we speak long period: getting beyond the (let's get action down as well, struggle to the persons and we'll be in great shape). iavolved. And finally, to those of you 
As I have been recently re­who feel cheated because I'm 
minded, it is important to re­momentarily dropping the role 
member that we are all people of angry activist, I have only 
here, at Notre Dame and Saint this to say: chill out. Take a 
Mary's, working to make things moment to fmd the good in your 
better. That may sound trite, "opponents." 
but bear with me. Rediscover a place from 
In the heat of the argument, which you can talk to them 
one can begin to see one's op­instead of hating them. 
ponent as no more than a cut­Distance and distrust do none of 
out of his or her beliefs. Of us any good. 
eourse, people are much more 
eomplex than their positions, Michael Yore 
which change and grow as they Spokesperson 
do. People are much more im­GLND/SMC 
portant than the mere ideas March 18, 1992 
they hold in their heads at a 
particular time and place in 
their lives. 
.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----~-­



Accent 
Tuesday, March 24, 1992
page 12 





mer1can cr1s1s 
Professor Giamo confronts the American homeless problem 

By FRED KROL 
Accent Writer 
In our sagging economy, an increasing number of Americans are finding them­selves homeless, yet many people choose to ignore the situation or blame the homeless for the problem. 
American Studies Professor Benedict Giamo is not content to do either. 
"We want to blame the homeless. We want to believe that it's all their fault. That makes the problem seem less threatening, if we as a society aren't at fault," says Giamo. 
He views homelessness as an example that the 'American Dream" remains only a dream for many Americans. "Homelessness represents to Americans a crisis of ambiguity, a breach between ideals and reality," states Giamo. He explains that the presence of homeless people shatters the myth that equality exists in America. 
He contrasts the homeless­ness of the 19th century with the homelessness of today. "After World War I, the homeless and extremely poor were confined to skid rows. Skid rows... provided a sense of place and a coherent construct," says Giamo. Giamo feels that today's 

"Homelessness today is a homeless not only lack shel­lot more visible," he ter, but also a sense of com­explains. "They're spilling munity. He claims that the out into the neighborhoods breakdown of the family has of people who previously contributed to a sense of didn't have to think about "spiritual homelessness." them," he stated. "We've lost our extended families, and the nuclear family is at risk," notes Giamo. He sees this development as dangerous since he maintains that "the home is the fundamental unit of social order." 
Giamo points to the lack of affordable housing as only one reason for the crisis. "By thinking that homelessness is a housing problem with only one solution -more housing -we are doing a disservice to the homeless people and not understanding the complexity of their problems," declares Giamo. 

He also cites the deinstitu­tionalization of the mentally ill, the gentrification of older neighborhoods and the in­crease in substance abuse as other causes for the homeless problem. 
Giamo deals with the topic of homelessness in his course, Confronting Homelessness in America. The course incorporates books, personal accounts and art in its examination of the subject. 
"It's not just statistics," says Maggie O'Shaugnessy who took the course last semester. "There's not just one cause either. It's not just a housing problem," she adds. 
Giamo hopes his research will encourage people to examine the problems facing the homeless instead of blaming the homeless. If people continue to blame homeless people, he says, "Nothing will change. It will only get worse." 

'My Cousin Vinny' depicts courtroom chaos 

By PETER BEVACQUA 
Film Critic 
There have been many courtroom dramas that have glorified the great American legal system, but "My Cousin Vinny" is not one of them. The film is a humorous depiction of courtroom chaos and the North-South culture clash. 
Two New York college students en route to UCLA, via the deep South, become prime suspects in the murdering of a convenient store clerk. The two young students believe they are being accused of pilfering a can of tuna fish, and are convinced that the Southern legal system is only trying to teach the New Yorkers a lesson in Southern etiquette. 
Only after the true nature of the accusation is revealed to the boys are they forced to arrange for legal assistance. Billy Gambini (Ralph Macchio) calls on the services of his cousin, Vincent Gambini. With the appearance of Joe Pesci ("Lethal Weapon II"), comes the nonstop humor which makes the film a success. 
The two boys do not realize that Pesci has never been in a courtroom before. He has never tried a single case, let alone a homicide. Pesci has been finished with law school for over six years, and has just recently passed the bar exam after his sixth attempt. 
Pesci is a versatile actor who moves 

My Coual VDiy 
Produced by Dale Launer and Paul Schiff Directed by Jonathon Lynn * * * 
(out of five) 
Now playing at Town and Country Theatre 
effortlessly between comedy and drama, employing elements of both genres in his performance. He enters the picture accompanied by both his fiance, Marisa Tomei, and his Italian bravado. These "assets," however, conspire against him in this docile Southern town. 
The character of Vincent Gambini is quite reminiscent of Pesci's portrayal of Joey La Motta in "Raging Bull." Pesci relies on the same street wise mentality in the courtroom as he did twelve years earlier alongside Robert De Niro. Unfortunately, his bad grammar and his poor diction give people the impression that he is not very intelligent or capable. 
It is his rough exterior, accented by his overtly urban garb, which shields his true litigating abilities. However, these same exaggerated traits of the quintessential New Yorker produce the humor of the fllm. 

One of the most memorable scenes occurs when Judge Chamberlain Haller, played by Fred Gwynn, has ordered Pesci to "re-evaluate" his wardrobe. After soiling his one presentable suit, Pesci is forced to enter the courtroom in a wild array of clothing that would bring tears of joy to the eyes of Elton John. 
Granted the plot of "My Cousin Vinny" is not a masterpiece. There is no Manichean struggle between good and evil, nor are there any witty catch phrases that for years to come will con­cisely define our generation...but the plot does work well enough to support the nature of the comedy without becoming overly ridiculous and subsequently forsaking the tenets of the legal drama. 
The screenplay successfully allows for the admittance of gregariousness, based on the discrepancy of conflicting re­gional behavior, into the conservative world of the American legal system. I strongly recommend that instead of viewing "Wayne's World" again, give "My Cousin Vinny" a shot...you may even like it better. 
Tuesday, March 24, 1992 The Observer page 13 

Boilermakers cruise past TCU in NIT play, 67-51 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) -Craig Riley scored 12 of his 18 points in the second half as the Purdue Boilermakers beat Texas Christian 67-51 Monday night in the second round of the National Invitation Tournament. 
The Boilermakers (18-14) broke the game open in the second half by hitting free throws against foul-plagued Horned Frogs (23-11). 
Purdue scored eight consecu­tive points to take the lead for good. Brandon Brantley ignited the spurt by muscling in for a layup, giving the Boilermakers a 43-41 edge. Cuonzo Martin and Matt Waddell each made one free throw before Waddell and Woody Austin scored to give the Boilermakers a 49-41 lead. 
The Horned Frogs cut the deficit to 51-47 with 5:10 re­maining but the Boilermakers, who got into the free throw bonus with 10:01 to play and started shooting two shots with 
5:01 left, pulled away by scor­ing 13 of their final 18 points on free throws. 

Two Waddell free throws with 
5:01 to play gave Purdue a 53­4 7 lead. Ian Stanback made two free throws with 4:21 to play. Line Darner followed with a 3­pointer and the decisive spurt ended with two free throws apiece by Darner and Riley. 
Texas Christian was led by Reggie Smith with 21 points, but his team went scoreless for more than four minutes in the second half and shot just 36.7 
percent in the period. 
Austin contributed 14 points to the victory and Waddell had 13 for the Boilermakers. AI Thomas had 13 for Texas Christian, but had only two in the second half when his team made 11 of 30 shots. 
Thomas, with three baskets from 3-point range, scored 11 points as the Horned Frogs opened a 19-12 advantage in the first 10 minutes. But he picked up his second foul early and his team begari struggling on offense. Texas Christian, which made just nine of 23 shots in the first half, scored a single point in the 6:39 Thomas sat on the bench. 
Purdue used a 10-1 run ·to take its first lead at 22-20 be­hind two straight jumpers from Austin. 
Austin's 3-]pointer tied the game 25-25 wiith 2:31 left in the first half, which ended 27-25 on a tip-in by Smith with 50 sec­onds left. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day class~ieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 

Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  ··LosT·· a green jacket w/ a  3 Bedroom Walk to Campus  "JOBS, TRAVEL, ADVENTUHE! 200+ listings for over 50,000(1  Heading for EUROPE this summer? Jet there anytime for $169 from the  ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS  

 tan/brown collar  $555 Month  positions -national/international.  East Coast, $229 from the Midwest  A BABY! Young financially secure  
JUNIORS: Second City Trip Friday,  lost at turtle creek on  232 3616  Send $4.95 + $1 P&H to  (when available) with AIRHITCH!  Catholic couple looking to adopt  
3-27$19 includes Bus & ticket@  st. Patty's day  Renaissance Resources, Bo): 652,  (Reported in Let's Go! & NY Times.)  and provide a loving home to an  
LaFortune Info Desk before 5:00  call mike X4183  Driggs, ID, 83422 or call208-354­ For details:  infant. All Expenses paid. Please  
Wed. 3-25 FUN!  COLLEGE PARK CONDOS-12  2795."  AIRHITCH(r) 212-864-2000.  call collect (317) 364-0300 for more  
WANTED  NEW UNITS-1300 sq. fl.­Ironwood & Bulla -2 B/R -2 Bath ­ Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award  information.  
TYPING AVAILABLE  available immediately-call287­ Winning Hotel, has rooms for  Training to become a presenter for  ADOPTION  
287-4082.  SUMMER JOBS  0534 or 271-9268.  Graduation weekend. Located at  CARE's dorm rape awareness  If you think it may be best for your  
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart  programs is scheduled for March 29  baby and for you to consider  
Typing  PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  Ideal house for graduate  (12 miles from South Bend)  and April 5. The sessions will be  adoption, please call us. We are a  
Pickup & Delivery  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  student with family. 3 bdr  Minimum stay 2 nights with $11 0  held in Siegfried's lounge from  responsible, childless couple with  
277-7406  NEAR LAKE PLACID  2 bath. One block from ND.  deposit per room. Send letter with  noon-Spm both days. For more info,  values and traditions which offer a  
CALL 1-800-786-8373  637 Peashway. $525 month  deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rei.,  call Missy at 283-2926 or Teresa at  child security, 2 loving parents, and  
FOR ONLY $1499 SPHINX TOURS  234-1714  Elkhart, IN 46514.  284-5136  a warm home. We hope you will  
ANNOUNCES A 15 DAYS NILE  $350.00/DAY PROCESSING  choose us to be the parents of your  
CRUISE INCLUDING AIRFARE,  PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL  1 BDRM. FOR SUMMER SCHOOL.  Scot, every one of our thirteen  "KILLING US SOFTLY": Images  baby. Legal and Medical expenses  
ON BOARD ONE OF OUR  YOU. NO EXPERIENCE  USE OF FACILITIES. $225/MO.  months has been special. Twang!  of Women in the Media  paid. Please call Bill and Kathy,  
LUXURY FLOATING FIVE STAR  NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242.  232-27\)4.  Thanks for all you do for me. Love,  As part of CARE's Sexual Assault  collect, at 219-322-8187.  
HOTELS SAILING BETWEEN  Becky.  Awareness Week, this short film  
CAIRO AND ASWAN. ALL MEALS  Wanted: Female roommate(s) to  NEEDED TWO FEMALE  accompanied by a discussion will  Greenfields Cafe ...now open  
INCLUDED FROM OUR  share apartment for the summer.  ROOMMATES TO SHARE  be held tonight (March 24) at Carroll  Monday through Friday from  
EXQUISITE CUISINE, PLUS  Students staying for summer school  FURNISHED OAKHILL CONDO  WANTED: Two or more U2 ti:<  Audit. in Madeleva Hall (SMC). It  7:00 am -2:30 pm  
SWIMMING POOL, BAR AND  or internships ideal. Call 283-4098  FOR SUMMER AND/OR 92-93  for Chicago show. $-no object! Call  will begin at 7:30 and all are invited  
DISCO. VISITS TO 15 CITIES TO  for information.  YEAR. AMY@ 277-9452  1087  to attend.  Breakfast !;erved from 7:00  
SEE THE PHARAONIC  am -1 0:30 am.  
WONDERS. CALL 800-233-4978.  Driving to U2 in Chicago?  ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO.,  A question to the boys of aLUMni,  SOUNDTECHS  Lunch served 11 :00 am -2:00 pm.  
Have room for 2 more?Will  for large 4-BR, furnished house.  DJs  
LOST/FOUND  pay gas.Call Lori 2980  Complete security system; washer & dryer; 9-mo. lease. Deposit. 259­ celebratiNg 60 years of doing it dawg Style?  SOUNDTECHS DJs  For information, call 239-8577.  
7801 or 255-5852.  we know yoU can't sCore with st.  The Student Activities Office  
HELP HELPIII I've lost my sole- SALES  mary's chicKs, and women have  is looking for sound /light  
mate. I've heard that he was hanging from a tree outside the  NOW HIRING FULL TIME AND  FOR SALE  only been at nd for 20 yearS. what's up with that?  technicians and disc jockeys for next year. If interested  RED CRACKHOUSE revisited  
Riley building before break. We  PART TIME SALES ASSOCIATES  stop by 315 LaFortune  1. Whatacrock  
were separated on February 27,  FOR IMMEDIATE OPENINGS OR  United Limo round trip ticket to  the men from dillon  Student Center.  2. He's like budda ...  
1992, during a routine trip from the  SUMMER HELP IN THE NEAR  Chicago. Good for one year. $50  Deadline for applications is  now he's not like budda  
CCMB to Rockne. He is a very  WEST SUBURBS OF CHICAGO  ticket for $40. 272-4311 Eggleston  Friday, March 27.  3. tonight we're considering drinking  
worn, tan (well, dirty tan)  School.  To 2 women w/ breasts,  to excess  
Birkenstock and holds great value.  WE OFFER:  They are BEAUTIFUL! I have never  4. silent but deadly  
If you can help me -please call  GUNS 'N ROSES TICKETS FOR  been so stimulated before.  A Few Quotes from the Marauder  5. just open your throat and let it  
Brooke at x2665  • $8-$15 PER HOUR  SALE. FOR INFO -JILL X3021  THE BRAIN  Drill Meet at Nova:  come in spurts  
• WEEKLY PAYOUT  Scot: I'm on this van (exit girls, ent.  6. jalapenos, the meal of champions  
LOST: green petite woman's class  • TRAINING PROVIDED  For Sale: 2 Chicago Bulls tix Friday  Liz. King + Court)  7. jon will do me first because I  
ring. Possibly near Common's or  • FLEXIBLE SCHEDULE  April 3 vs. LA Clippers. BEST  What'd Hull say? Would he just  won't take very long  
Linebacker. If found please return  (10-40 HRS. PER WEEK)  OFFER call 284-5479  speak English!  8. aircloud 2000  
to 143 Farley or call Angie at4095.  • SATURDAY INTERVIEWING  Notice to ND and SMC chics: JIM  Where R Capt. P's fuzzy dice and  
Thanks.  AVAILABLE.  CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED  MORRISSON is turning 22 tc1day  strobe light?  
89 Mercedes ...................... $200  and the ball and chain is out of  Ever play tampon tag?  
LOST: woman's petite green class  CALL (708) 955-3578 AND ASK  86 vw.................................... $50  town. This may be your last chance  We're all milit. Ho's We do it for the  Nautilus Woman,  
ring. Inscription reads "ACS '93". If  FOR PHYL.  87 Mercedes ...................... $100  to give him a big B-day kiss before  $  Smile-it's contagious.  
found please return to 143 Farley or  65 Mustang .......................... $50  he drowns in a sea of love.  Oh, I have a story about HERI  
Angie at 4095.  Now taking aplication for part-time  Choose from thousands starting  Appointments for your turn will be  That Shargeant Majorsh gonna get  TOP 10 QUOTES FROM  
employment in a  $25.  taken at the Potato House. Don't  me a shpeeding ticket!  CONCERT NIGHT  
FOUND: a silver ring with a black  Bike Shop. 277-8866. Bike Shop  FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals  miss ill  Dan, U feel sick? U have that gross  1. This is what he looks like, except  
middle shaped like a sideways  exp. required.  Details 801-379-2929 Copyright  chicken taste in your mouth? Like  without the1 cheese.  
eyeball was found on a doorstep on  #IN11KJC  some warm mayo?  2. I try to make a good first  
Navarre street on St. Patrick's Day,  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  hey nil  The floor is wet, the bed is wet. I'm  impression and I grind.  
perhaps left by one of the  -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month.  gonna wake up SOGGY!  3. Is there any way you can induce  
unwelcome, rude and offensive  Free transportation! Room & Board!  Pioneer receiver & tape deck for  Drill Sgt, the color of my underwear  losing your voice?  
guests.  Over 8,000 openings. No  sale x2322  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTR.ALIA  is white ...wlbrown streaks  4. What flavor? But it's a powder!  
288-9421  experience necessary. Male or  Info on semester, year, graduate,  R U related to Unc. Festa?  5. Ride your broom right into my  
Female. For employment program  2 tixs for U2-Detroit-Friday  summer af\d internship programs in  Listen up folks, I've a new salute to  room. Wh)r?  
FOUND: PEN OUTSIDE OF  call Student Employment Services  Best offer. Efa 2270  Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and  showU  6. Where's the car? ...l don't know  
SOUTH DINING HALL ON FRIDAY,  at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597.  Melbourne. Programs start at  Hurry up, 1/2 pint  how to get home!  
3/20. CALL 232-2794 & IDENTIFY.  $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696.  How can POOP B in the Realm,  7. Are you sexually frustrated? Do  
NEED EXTRA CASH Ill 271-2001  TICKETS  and not ME? How many roads must a man walk  you want more ice? 8. Ready Nettie? Ready Bettyl  
I lost a Notre Dame Lacrosse  Local Card & Gift Shop  The Lizard King lives on! Down with  down...? (SOCIAL!)  9. I can't remember the third one--1  
sweatshirt Sat. night somewhere on  Looking for Student Interested in  Have 1,2, or 3 tix to Steve Miller.  the Crustaceans!  That's UNCANNY!  think it was Liberace.  
South Quad. It has #34 on the front  Part Time Work.  (Great seats!) x1684  I am the Lizard KingI  10. Gasp! Honk! Honk!  
and I really need it back. If you've  (Freshman Preferred)  Who the hell's VASQUEZ?  
found it, please call Kristine at  271-2001  U2 TICKETS FOR SALE  to the athletic dept.:  What's wrong w/Kane?-Why's he  
X3352.  Call Britton at Britton's Balloons and  March 31 concert at the Rosemount  your time is gonna come  'tawkin like dat'?  
Gifts (next to Tracks)  Horizon  -led zeppelin  Greg, U R NOT doing pushups.  Female roommate wanted for May.  
LOST Black & Silver Watch  271-2001  best offer  That's an order!  Lincon Park area, 2 blocks from the  
Sat. night at  call 284-3814  It puts the lotion on its skin, Clr else  Kris, we don't have contempt 4 U.  lake. 2bdrm/5rm, $451/mo plus  
Battle of the Bands  If anyone recorded the Lou Holtz  leave name, ph #and price you are  it gets the hose again.  We just make fun of U  utilities. call (312) 975-5035.  
Reward Call Matt x2347  presentation on March 19@ 7pm, I  willing to pay  Cannatta, I feel like U R in our van  
would like a copy of it. Contact me  (Stupid.)  cause they keep making fun of U  Irish Music and Dance  
···Losr··  at the Observer 239-6900. Thank u.  PERSONAL  She sings a song and I listen to  W/all due respect, U need to get laid Sofield's mom-What is she Weather  Every Tuesday at Club 23 SEAMAISIN  - 
glasses with  Need ride to North Carolina  The only cool people at the  what it says- Woman?  NEED 2 Tickets for Graduation  
metalic frame  May 8th or 9th  Observer are the typesetters.  If you want a friend, feed an)' animal  If we burned a cal. for every word  please call Neal at283-1159  
Will split tolls and gas  ·~·~·-------------------------------------­ There's so much space, I cui: me a  we said, I'd be emaciated  
REWARDI  Call Dave 3633  Pat B. likes BTMs  piece with some fine wine,  Capt. P:l took out P. Simon. I was  
call Joe at 1208  -----------------------------------------­ It brought peace to my mind in the  sick of listening to that little twirp  Good luck P-man,  
Gain' to Chicago on the 31st?  Ste- Summertime,  Liz: I can make Cann. do it ALL  I like what you do with your epee!  
U2?  llah ullll  And it rolled!  ·Top 5 Dan ·vasquez" Quotes  Love, Betty  
Found  Need a ride there? WE DO!II Call  Mah  5 Caimien, U R a Commun. major?  
mini 35mm camera  B.P.1323, honey, for riders and gas  -----------------------------------------­ Figures.  ---------------------------------------------­ 
Was found just before  moneyII  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  ADOPTION: PROFESSIONAL  4 Did I do-l mean, how many stupid  
CHRISTMAS break.  Good rates. Save Money. Call me  COUPLE, HAPPILY MARRIED,  things did I do last night?  Larry, Curly, and Moe,  
call Joe 1208  FOR RENT  for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus.  FINANCIALLY SECURE, STRONG BASIC VALUES, EAGER TO  3 There I am, walking on the highway w/a bloody maxipad and  Typesetters are NOT shy, quiet, people-people nor tall, dark and  
ADOPT AND WELCOME A BABY  cars passing by  handsome but your okay anyway!  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  I, myself, cannot.  INTO A LOVING CIRCLE OF  2 Kane tore my clothes off, threw  Love,  
LOST: Navy blue ID CASE at  219-291-7153.  FAMILY AND FRIENDS AND  me in bed, and told me to stay there  The best of the production  
Lafayette Square on 3/17. Many  We are not strong  PROVIDE MANY OF LIFE'S  •1 I could be a Gladiator if I wanted  goddesses!  
needed cards inside. If found,  FOR RENT  ADVANTAGES. EXPENSES PAID.  to  ----------------------------------------------­ 
please call x2722.  "ONLY $125 PER PERSON.  You should be with us, feeling like  JUDITH AND JESSE 1-800-933­ (Ain't we lucky we got 'em?)  
259-7801 OR 255-5852"  we do...  3499.  GOOD TIMES!  Happy 21st Frankl  
----------------------------------------------­ 


IRISH BASEBALL BOX SCORES vs ARIZONA STATE NCAA FENCING CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Arizona Stale I, Nolr8 Dame 5. Arizona State 16, Notre Dame 2. 
NCAA Fencing ChamplonahlpaN D A R H 81 ARIZONA ST. A R H 81 NO AB R H Bl ARIZONA ST. AB R H Bl at Nolr8 Dame, Ind.
Desena!. dh 3 0 0 0 Samuela, H 3 0 0 0 Layson, 2b 3 0 0 0 Weinberger, rf 6 1 2 1 Through Monday'a eventaCounsell, c 4 1 2 1 Ehrmann, 88 5 1 2 1 Bilk, 2b 0 0 0 0 Samuels. H 5 1 0 1 
Danapllls, rf 4 2 3 2 N9WBUom, 1 b 2 1 0 0 Lisanti, ph 1 0 0 0 Sclalo, ph·2b 1 0 0 0 Team Reaulla Blnklewlcz. 1 b 4 1 0 0 Henderson, dh 2 3 1 0 Counsell, as 1 0 0 0 Ehmann, ss 5 1 1 0 
Mee, 3b 4 0 1 1 Williamson, 3b 3 2 2 3 Danapllls, rf 4 0 0 0 Henderson, tb 3 1 2 2 
Men'a Men'a Man'a Women••
FaJJJa. cl 4 0 0 0 StEM>raon, cl 4 1 2 2 Blnklewlcz, 1b 3 0 1 0 Cody, ph tb 1 1 0 0 
Foil Sabre Epee Foil
Rooney, d 0 0 0 0 Robson, c 4 1 o 0 Mee, 3b 3 1 2 0 Robson, c 3 3 1 1 Verduzco. W 4 0 2 0 Cruz, rf 4 0 2 2 Failla, II 3 0 0 0 Newstrom, dh 3 1 1 2 LISanti, c 3 0 o o Dunn, 2b 4 0 1 0 Leahy, dh 3 0 0 0 Mayberry, pr-dh 2 1 0 0 
Yale Penn State Today TempleTOTALS 34 5 8 4 TOTALS 31 8 10 8 DeSensl, ph 1 0 0 0 Steverson, cf 3 4 3 3 Columbia Yale Today Penn State E· Counsell. N9WBtrom. DP-ASU. LOB-ASU 5, NO 4. 29-Counoen, Haas, c 2 1 1 1 Cruz, ph-cf 0 0 0 0 
Penn State NotreDame Today ColumbiaHenderson, Williamson. 3B-Oanapllla. HR-Oanapllla (1), Steverson (6), Verduzco, ph 1 0 0 0 Williamson, 3b 3 1 3 4 
Notre Dame NYU Today YaleEhmann (3). SB-Blrk (2). Veerduzoo (5), Danapllla (3), N9WBtrom (1). Samuela Bautch, cf 3 0 0 0 Dunn, 2b 4 1 3 2 (1). CS-Oesensl. SF-Williamson. Lootens, ph-2b-H 1 0 0 0 
Point Totala 

Pitching TOTALS 31 2 6 2 TOTALS 38 16 16 16 
NOTRE DAME IP H R ER BB so School Men's Men'a Men'a Women'a TotalLeahy (L, 3-1) 5213 8 6 5 2 7 E-Layson, Newstrom, Henderson. DP-ND , ASU. 29-Dunn, Henderson, 
Foil Sabre Epee Foil
Sinnes 1113 2 3 3 3 0 Mae. 39-Robson. HR-Steverson (4), Newstrom (3). SB-Steverson (12). Allen 1 0 0 0 1 0 S-Bautch, Mee. Wlllllamson. SF-Samuels. ARIZONA STATE PITCHING 
Penn State 875 1200 lndlvlcual (17) 1550 3625Matranga (7·2) 7213 8 5 3 7 NOTRE DAME IP H R ER BB so Yale 1200 1000 Individual (40) 1250 3450Fenton 1113 0 0 0 0 1 M lchalak (L, 3-1) 5 10 9 8 3 2 Columbia 1000 550 Team today 1400 2950WP-Leahy. Slnnes. HBP-Oesenal by Matranga. T-2:41. f'r.. 3082 Krause 1 5 5 5 1 0 Notre Dame 750 875 Team today 800 2425
Adams 2 1 1 1 5 2 Arizona State 10, Notre Dame 5. ARIZONA STATE 
Penn State and Yale will not lleld epee teams In today's team rounds. TheNO AB R H 81 ARIZONA St. AB R H 81 Newstrom 7 5 2 2 3 8 numbers In parenth8686 are the expected point totals In epee from theLayson, 2b 4 0 1 0 Samuels, rf 5 1 4 3 Smith 1 1 0 0 1 3 schools' Individual performers.
Failla. II 3 1 1 0 Ehrmann, ss 5 1 1 0 Fenton 1 0 0 0 0 1 
Counsell, as 3 2 2 2 Newstrom, 11-tb 4 1 0 1 
Blnklewlcz. 1 b 4 1 1 2 Henderson, dh 3 1 0 0 NIT SECOND ROUND BOX SCORES • 
Mee, 3b 4 0 0 0 Mayberry. pr-dh 0 1 0 0 
Danapilla. rf 3 0 Williamson, 3b 5 1 3 NOTRE ST. ME:lUCO 78, WASHINGTON ST. 71
0 0 4 DAME 64, KANSAS 47 NEW MANHATTAN 62, RUTGERS 61 
Leahy, dh 3 0 0 1 Steverson. cf 4 1 1 1 KANSAS ST. (16-14) WASHINGTON ST. (22·11) MANHATTAN (25-8)Bautch.cf 1 1 0 Cady, tb 0 0 Crlnon 5·9 2-2 12, Maxey 3-6 1-3 1 o, Seltzer 2-4 
0 3 0 Jackson 2-9 1-3 5, Jones 7-18 3-5 19, Howard 4­Edwards 5·11 3-3 15, Bullock 3-13 5-6 11,Lisanti, c 3 0 1 0 Weinberger, ph 0 1 0 0-0 5, Lewis 7-20 0-0 20, Derrick 4-17 2-2 10, Hill
1 9 2-3 10, Zeigler 0-2 2-2 2, Nickerson 1-6 0-0 2. 
Berns lay 5-7 3-4 13, A. Williams 2-7 2·2 7, Dubra 3 Maisano, ph 1 0 0 4 1-3 2-3 4, Paine 2-4 0-0 4, Corkrum 2·5 0·0 4,

0 Cruz. rf 0 2 2 Henson 0-9 1-4 1, Cunningham 1·2 0-2 2, 8 0·2 8, C.Wllllams 2-8 0-0 5, Brown o-o 0-0 o.Haas, c 0 0 0 0 Robson, c 3 1 2 3 Strickland 0-1 0-0 0, Collier 0-1 0-0 0, Reniger 2-4 Oatis t-2 0-0 2. Totals 27-70 7-10 71. Wilson 1-6 0-0 3. Totals 21·60 13-17 62. Dunn, 2b 4 1 2 0 2-4 6. Totals 17-61 11·23 47. NEW MEXICO (20-12) RUTGERS (16·15)TOTALS 28 5 6 5 TOTALS 38 Logan 6-124-519, Wllllmas 3-10 2-2 8, Seen 6·
10 15 10 NOTRE DAME (16-14) Jones 10·17 4-7 25, Smith 3-10 1·2 7, Weiler 1-: 
E-Llaantl, Mee. DP-ASU 2. LOB-ASU 9, NO 8. 2B-Williamson, Robson. Ellis 4-7 7-9 15, Taylor 2-3 1-2 5, Tower 2-4 o-o 14 4-4 16, LaMar 2-4 4-6 8, Banks 2-7 5· 7 9, Jaxon 0-0 2. Drury 0-Q 0-0 0, Worthy 3·11 4-6 11. Radder HR-Counsell (2), Samuels (6), Steverson (5), Blnkiewlcz (3). SB-Ehmann 4, Bannan 1·7 0-Q 2, Sweet 7-16 0-Q 16, Boyer t-3 7-7 1-3 15, McCrary 2·4 0-0 4, HeNner 0-0 0-0 0. 
0-1 0-0 0, Santiago 1·2 0-Q 2, Lurl1l!<ln 2-6 1-4 7. (5). CS-Samuels. S-Layson, Bautch, Mayberry. 0-0 3, Russellt-1 1·2 3, Cozen 2-4 2-3 7, Joe Ross Totals 28-56 20-27 79. 
Stokes 0-2 o-o o, Phillips 2-3 3-3 7. Totals 22-54PITCHING Halftlm&-New Mexico 40, Washington St. 32.

0-0 1-2 1, Jon Ross 4-7 0-0 8. Totals 24·52 12-18 13-22 61. NOTRE DAME IP H R ER BB so 64. 3-Polnt goal-Washington St. 10-18 (Lewis 6­
Halftlm&-Manhanan 26, Rutgers 26. 3-PolntWalanla (L, 1·2) 6 11 7 5 2 2 9, Maxey 3-5, Seltzer 1-2, Hill 0-1, Oatis 0-1). New

Halftime-Notre Dame 33, Kansas St. 21. 3­
goei-Mar.hanan 7-21 (Edwards 2-4, Oubra 2-6, Price 2 4 3 3 2 1 Point goal-Kansas St. 2-15 (Jones 2-7, Zeigler Mexico 3-12 (Logan 3-6, Soon 0-1, Banks 0-2. Wilson 1-3, R.WIIIiams 1·4, C. Williams 1-4),ARIZONA STATE Williams 0-3). Fouled out-Seltzer.
0·2, Henson 0-6), Notre Dame 4-12 (Bannan 0-1, 
Rutgers 4-12 (Lurl1l!<ln 2-5, Jones 1-1, Wonhy 1-4, Lowe (W, 6-2) 7 4 5 5 7 7 Rebound-Washington St. 33 (Crlnon 8), New

Sweet 2-6, Boyer 1·3, Cozen 1·2). Fouled out­
Redden 0-1, Santiago 0-1). Fouled out-Wilson.

Smth 2 0 1 0 Mexico 45 (Jaxon 16). Aaela-Washington St.
2 0 None. Rebound-Kansas St. 38 (Jones 11 ), Weiler. Rebounde-Manhanan 46 (Bemsley 14), 
WP-Walanla. HBP-Bautch by Lowe. T-2:45. A-1500. 13 (Lewis 3, Derrick 3), New Mexico t4 (Williams
Notre Dame 45 (Ellis 15). A ..le-Kansas St. 6 
Rutgers 33 (Jones 8). Aaaia~anhanan 13 (Zeigler, Nickerson 2), Notre Dame 18 (Bennen 9). 
4, Banks 4). Total louie-Washington St. 22, 
(Bullock 3), Rutgers 12 (Wonhy 3). Total foula­Total foul-Kansas St. 15, Notre Dame 23. A-Manhanan 20, Rutgers 19. A-4,350.
New Mexico 10. A-11,184. FLORIDA 77, PITTSBURGH 14 PURDUE 67, TEXAS CHRISTIAN 51Q,~~iNIA 77, TENNESSEE 52 FLORIDA (18·12) TEXAS CHRISTIAN (23-11)TENNESSEE . (18-15) Poole 7-19 3·3 17, Grimsley 2-5 0-2 4, DeClercq 

TRANSACTIONS 
Moton 2·9 1·1 5, Strickland 1·4 0-0 2. Smhh 9-12
Houston-6-14 4-4 19. Allen 0-8 0-0 0, Groves 4-3-5 t-2 7, Brown 6·13 4-4 17, Cross 2-3 9-11 13, 3-4 21, Thonnas 5-13 0-0 13, Atwater 1-8 2-2 4. 
BASEBALL 13 t-4 10, Prlce 0-2 0-0 0, Wiseman 1-8 2-2 4, Stewan 1-2 0-0 2, Kulsma 1-3 0-0 2, Hogan 4-5 2­
National Football League Tolley 2-7 0-0 4, Hocker 0·0 2-2 2, Graves 0-0 0-0 
American League Rivers 0-2 0-0 0, Sheffield 1·2 0-0 2, Johnson 2-3 4 14, Dyrkolbotn 0-1 1·2 1. Totals 26·56 20-28 77. 
CHICAGO BEARS-Announced the retirement 0. Totals 20-53 8-9 51. 
TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Optioned Domingo 0-0 4, Brand 3-6 0-0 7, Brown 3-5 0-0 6, Milson 0-Q PITTSBURGH (18·16) 
PURDUE (18-14)Manlnez, Infielder. AI Leher, pitcher, and Randy 0-0 0. Totals 20-63 7-10 52. 
of Jim Coven. onenslve tackle. 

McNeal 5-15 9-9 19, Antigua 0-1 0-2 o. 
INDIANAPOLIS COLTS-Announcad the Martin 1·3 3-3 5, Stanback 3-3 2-2 8, Riley 8-12 2­Knorr, catcher, to Syracuae of the International 
VIRGINIA (17-13) Morningstar 6-11 6-7 18, Millar 1-5 0-0 3, Sharee! 
retirement of Donnell Thompson, defensive end. 6 18. Austin 5-14 3-4 14, Darner 1-2 2-2 5, Waddell 
League. Stith 7-16 5-6 19, Burrough 5-15 3-4 13, Jeffries 3-5 0-0 7, Jordan 0-1 0·0 0, McCullough 5-10 0-2 
NEW YORK JETS-Signed Pat Chaffey, 3-4 7-8 13, Painter 0-0 0-0 0, Brantley 1-2 0-0 2, 
National League 4-5 3-4 11. Oliver 1·2 2-2 4, Alexander 3-8 3-4 tO, 12. Gant 3·6 0·3 6, Mobley 3·6 3·8 9. Totals 26-60 
fullback, and Troy Sadowski, tight end. McNary 1-1 0-0 2, Trlce 0-0 0-0 0, Spiker 0-0 0-0 0. 
MONTREAL EXPOS-Optioned Dave Parker 3-6 0-0 8, Barnes 2-3 4-6 8, Smth 0-0 4-4 18-31 74. 
PHILADELPHIA EAGLES-Signed John Bruhin, Totals 23-41 19-25 67. 
Walnhouse and Man Maysey, phchera, and Rob 4, Havlicek 1·1 0-0 2. Wilson 0-0 0-0 0, Williford o-Hslftlm&-Fiorida 40, Pittsburgh 39. 3-polnt­
guard, to two one-year contracts. Halftlm&-Texas Christian 27, Purdue 25. 3­
Natal, catcher, to Indianapolis ol the American 0 o-o o. l'otals 26-56 24-30 77. goala-Fiorlda 5-9 (Hogan 4-5, Brown 1-3,
Canadian Football League Point goai-TCU 3-14 (Thomas 3-9, Moton 0-1, 
Association. Halftime-VIrginia 37, Tennes899 25. 3-Polnt Stewan 0-1 ), Pittsburgh 4-15 (McCullough 2-6, 
CALGARY STAMPEDERS-Signad Doug Flutle, Tolley 0-1, Atwater 0-1, Strickland 0-2), Purdue 2·3 
goal-Tennessee 5-16 (Houston 3-7, Groves t-Shareef t-2, Miller 1-5, McNeal 0-1, Jordan 0-1). 
NEW YORK METS-Optionad Julian Vasquez, quanerback, to a four-year contract. (Austin 1-1, Darner 1-2). Fouled out-Thomas. 
pitcher, to Binghamton of the Eastern League and 1, Brand 1-3, Prlce0-1, Allen 0-2, Wiseman 0-2), Fouled out-DeCiercq. Rebounds-Florida 30 Rebound•-TCU 24 (Smith 7), Purdue 22 Eric Hillman, pitcher, to Tidewater ol the Virginia 1-6 (Alexander 1-4, Stith 0-2). Fouled (Grimsley 6), Pittsburgh 44 (Mobley 12). Assists­(Stanback 5). Aaaiat-TCU 12 (Atwater 4), International League. out-None. Rebounds-Tennessee 33 Florida 13 (Grimsley, Brown 3), Pittsburgh 14 Purdue 18 (Austin 7). Total foui-TCU 22,(Sheffield 7), Virginia 43 (Jeffrles 9). A..lsta­(Millar 6). Total foul-Florida 21, Pinsburgh 21. 
Purdue 9. A-1 0,399.

Tennessee~Allen _g)_._l.'irainia 1_2__(Aiexander 4). A---1!,541. ___ _ 
It can't do laundrY or fmd you adate,
but it can help you fmd more time for both. 
The new Apple" Macintosh' Classic'' II 
In addition to its built-in capabilities, the computer makes it easier for you to juggle Macintosh Classic II can be equipped with up classes, activities, projects, and term papers­to 10 megabytes of RAM, so you'll be able to and still find time for what makes college run several applications at once and work life rea/life. with large amounts of data. 
-
It's acomplete and affordable Macintosh If you already own a Macintosh Classic, Classic system that's ready to help you get and want the speed and flexibility of a your work finished fast. It's asnap to set up Macintosh Classic II, ask us about an and use. It has a powerful68030 micro­upgrade-it can be installed in just minutes processor, which means you can run even and it's affordable. the most sophisticated applications with ease. To put more time on your side, consider And its internal Apple SuperDrive'" disk putting a Macintosh Classic II on your desk. drive reads from and writes to Macintosh and See us for a demonstration today, and while MS-DOS formatted disks-allowing you to you're in, be sure to ask us for details exchange information easily with about the Apple Computer Loan. 
almost any other kind of computer.· It'll be time well spent. 
''~"'"''"'~•~~t~lr~•''"~,,~,,~•"""•·m·•t< 
~· 

Introducing the Macintosh Classic II. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 Math/Computer Building 
239-7477 
01991 Apple Computer, Inc Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are regiMercd trJdemarks and SuperDrivc is atrndcmark of Apple Computer, Inc MS-DOS is aregistered trademark of Microsof! Corporation Classic 1s aregislered 1r.1demark used under license by Apple Compuler, Im:. This ad was created usmg Macmmsh compUiers 

Tuesday, March 24, 1992 The Observer page 15 
DuBose, Mirer tabbed as Irish football captains 
Special to the Observer 
Senior linebacker Demetrius DuBose and senior quarterback Rick Mirer have been elected co-captains of the 1992 Notre Dame football team. 
Dubose, a 6-2, 234-pounder from Seattle, Washington, is coming off a strong campaign which included 127 tackles, a higher total than any other Irish player in the last six sea­sons. He is expected to contend for both the Butkus Award and All-American status. 
Mirer will begin his third season as quarterback of the Fighting Irish on the heels of a record-setting campaign last season. Mirer threw 18 touch­down passes last season to set a single-season mark, and with 26 scoring passes in his career, is nearing Joe Theismann's all-time record of 31. 
Completing 132 of 234 passes for 2,117 yards last season, Mirer finished eighth nationally in NCAA passing efficiency and shared the team MVP award with fullback Jerome Bettis. 

Tyson's sentencing drc3WS near 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The witnesses whose voices spoke in damning accusation and stubborn defense during Mike Tyson's rape trial will likely hold their peace when the con­victed boxer returns Thursday for sentencing. 
"It's not going to be a long hearing," special prosecutor Greg Garrison said Monday. 
Indiana law permits both sides generous leeway to plead for leniency or retribution at criminal sentencings. 
Garrison nonetheless says the state has no plans to call wit­nesses. And with the possible exception of Camille Ewald, Tyson's elderly surrogate mother, the defense may have none, either. 
"The defense will ask for le­niency, we'll be asking for sig­nificant jail time, and then the judge calls it," Garrison said. 
Tyson faces maximum 20­year sentences for his convic­tion last month on charges of rape and two counts of criminal deviate conduct in the July 1991 attack on Desiree Washington, a Miss Black America contestant. 
At the trial, she described a spur-of-the-moment date with Tyson that turned violent when he lured her to his hotel room, then ignored her pleas and raped her. 


Mike Tyson 

Attorneys say it is unlikely that Washington will appear at the sentencing. During a televi­sion interview, she expressed no vindictiveness toward the former heavyweight boxing champion. 
Tyson's defense team has re­mained largely silent during and since the trial, which ended Feb. 10. Joseph Champion, a spokesman for Marion Superior Court Judge Patricia J. Gifford, said the lawyers have given her no indication of whom they might call. 
Garrison speculated the de­fense may call Ewald, who with Tyson's one-time trainer, the late Cus D'Amato, raised Tyson after he showed boxing promise during a reform school term. 
Ewald rode at Tyson's side each morning as he arrived at the courthouse, then sat throughout the day in the spec­tator seats behind the defe_nse 
Make sure your road trip proceedswithoult a hitch. 

Sometimes road trips can be a little more adventurous than you 
expect them to be. Which is why you should always pack your AT&T Calling Card 0 
Its all you need to make a call from almost anywhere to anywhere. It's the least 
expensive way to call state-to-state on AT&T when you can't dial direct. And now, 
you could also get 10% back IIon all the long distance calls you make with 
your card~ 0 The AT&T Calling Card It's the best route to wherever you're going. 
Call more, save more with an AT&T Calling Card. Call1 800 654-0471, Ext. 5915. 
• Must make at least $30 worth of AT&T Long Distance Calls with your AT&T Card per quarter. Calls covered by special ~~~~~~~£~ plans are not included 
-





-~ATs.T
-
table. Tyson talked with her frequently during breaks, and she often squeezed his hand. 
Tyson testified in his defense and could take the stand again at sentencing, although his at­torneys have not said he will. 
It is unlikely that he will again face Mary Washington, the victim's mother, who de­scribed how her happy-go­lucky daughter had changed since the attack. Nor will Donald Washington, the victim's father, likely return and again confront Tyson with his baleful stare. 
The testimony even of many defense witnesses created an incriminating character portrait. Tyson claimed Washington consented to sex, and his lawyers called contes­tants to describe him as an oafish lout who made his sexual appetite clearly known. 
Even if no one testifies, Gifford will have reams of ma­terial to weigh in her decision. Hundreds of letters and peti­tions, pro and con, have arrived since Tyson's conviction, and the probation office has pre­pared a detailed report on Tyson's life. 
"I think every judge ap­proaches sentencing in criminal cases on an individual basis," said Clay Circuit Judge Ernest 
E. Yelton. 
Sideline 
continued from page 20 
struggling to stand straight up, but it also got one writer a free beer bath. 
From this point on, chaos equal to anythjng Dante could have dreamed up emerged. A DePaul writer called security over, and a tremendous alter­cation occurred, with the head honcho of the men's club slur­ring vulgarities that would be cut from an R-rated movie at the security guards, who, strangely enough, did nothing. 
I don't know who that guard was, but he must has been brought up to learn the virtue of patience, because no average mortal could withstand that kind of verbal assault on his persona. 
When MacLeod threw his coat and was hit with the technical that unfortunately cost the Irish the game, it was celebration time for the intoxicated. As the contest ended, they unleashed a barrage of 'complimentary' remarks at the Irish writers no doubt designed to endear us to DePaul and question our intelligence at choosing ND. 
In many arenas and stadiums across the country that sell al­coholic beverages, a policy has been enacted shutting down sales after halftime, the third quarter, the seventh inning, etc. This gives the drinking fans a chance to settle down. 
Whether the Rosemont deems it necessary to enact such a policy or not, their security force should be more effective. People such as these particular drunks not only embarrass themselves, but reflect poorly on the arena as well. 
There is nothing wrong with serving alcohol at sporting events, at least for part of the contest, but when the actions of people who have been drinking start to impinge on the enjoy­ment of others and take away from the atmosphere at the contest, then someone in charge should realize that there is a problem that needs to be worked out. 
Softball games are cancelled 
Observer Staff Report 
Due to the same inclement 
weather conditions that have 
affected the Michiana area, the 
Notre Dame softball double­
header scheduled today at the 
University of Illinois-Chicago 
has been cancelled. 
The Irish will hope the snow 
on Alumni Field melts in time 
for Wednesday's twinbill 
against Ball State. 
"Right now it's doubtful," 
said coach Brian Boulac, who 
said the decision will be made 
at noon today. 
The Irish currently stand at 
10-9 for the season, and after 
the Ball State games will head 
to Birmingham, Alabama for 
the Southern Invitational. 
The Irish are seeking a 
chance to avenge the two 
losses they suffered to the 
Cardinals at last weekend's 
-

Sycamore Classic, where Notre Dame haUled its way to a second-place finish 

page 16 The Observer Tuesday, March 24, 1992 

Attorneys meet investigators in Mets rape case 
PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. (AP) ­
Assistant Florida state attorney 
Dave Morgan and the inves­
tigative team assigned to the 
alleged rape of a 31-year-old 
woman by three members of 
the New York Mets conferred 
with lawyers for the players 
Monday. 
"The meeting was an effort 
by us to explain the needs of 
the investigation as far as their 
clients is concerned," Lt. Scott 
Bartal said. 
Bartal said Morgan requested 
that the players answer those 
needs by Wednesday but did 
not specify what the needs are. 
It's believed that the investi­gators have asked for blood samples from the players, identified by their attorneys as Dwight Gooden, Vince Coleman and Daryl Boston. Gooden's at­torney is Joe Ficarrotta. Coleman is represented by Edward Galante and agent Steve Zucker is representing Boston. 
Investigators interviewed witnesses in New York last weekend. "This information has been beneficial to the total investigation, however we can­not go into specifics at this time," Bartal said. 
Asked how close the investi­gators were to completing their work, Bartal said, "I can't ex­plain all the things left to do but it seems to be that the ma­jority of that will be getting the information that we need from the suspects named in the case." 
The alleged rape took place last March 30 in a house rented by Gooden. The players and the Mets organization have de­clined to comment. 
-
SPORTSBRIEFS 

•sports 
Briefs are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor o LaFortune. Please submit your name. brief, telephone number, and the dates the brief is to run. 

•sports 
Writers are needed to cover Saint Mary's sports. Anyone interested should contact Saint Mary's sports editor Nicole McGrath at the Observer office or at 284-5415. 

•Bookstore 
Basketball teams that are interested in playing against the Hall of Fame team should submit their proposals to the secretary in the Student Government office on the second floor o LaFortune no later than Wednesday, March 25. 

•women's 
Bookstore Basketball signups will he held Thursday, March 26, from 6 to 9 p.m. in the Sorin Room o LaFortune and the lobby of Haggar Hall (SMC). The entry fee is $5 per team. Call Eileen or Tracy (x1093) for questions and revised eligibility rules. 

•The 
Rockne Pool will be closed until further notice due to repairs. Rolfs Aquatic Center is open Mon·Fri from 7 am to 4 pm and Sat-Sun from 1 pm to 10:30 pm. 

•Bookstore 
Basketball captain's meeting is Thursday, march 26, from 7:30 to 9:00 pm in the Library Auditorium. Attendance is necessary. Schedules and game rules will be distributed. 

•Irish 
Heartllghts Spring 3 and 6 mile runs are scheduled for Thursday, April 9 at 4 pm. Students and staff can pick up entry forms at RecSports, LaFortune Info desk, and the Dining Halls. For more information, call 239-6100 and ask for Sally. 


Wednesday at 7:30 in 118 Nieuland. Elections for next year will be held. If you owe money for Stevensons, T-shirts, etc please bring it. Also, it you ordered issue sweatshirts from last semester. they can be picked up in 313 Farley at 7 pm before the meeting. The price is $25. Any questions, call Nimi at x4023. 

Casting & Angling Mini-Course 
Five Sessions Wednesdays 6:00 -7:30p.m. March 25, April 1, 8, 15, & 22 $8.00 class fee 
Classes held in JACC, Rolfs, and Campus 
Esring own equipment if possible 
Register in Advance at RecSports 
The Australian Consulate General and other speakers discuss trade blocs and their future impacts on trade and 

Sailing club opens season 
By RENE FERRAN 

1991-92 Associate Sports Editor 
Dodging snowflakes on St. Joseph's Lake, the ND/SMC Sailing Club hosted the Freshman Icebreaker last Saturday. 
Temperatures dipped into the 30's, turning the team's Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association {MCSA) opener into a real icebreaker. 
But despite the frigid condi­tions, ten schools turned out for the regatta which gave freshmen and first-year sailors a chance to gain collegiate ex­perience. Although a non-scor­ing meet towards the final MCSA standings, ND/SMC's second-place finish to Marquette was a promising start for the club. 
"A lot of our team graduated last year," said club president 
Another newcomer, Joe Boland, also fared well in his first-ever competition for ND/SMC, taking home one sec­ond-place finish as well as coming in third three times. 
At B-division, freshmen Julie Hurley (two first-place finishes) and Pat Fischer (two firsts, two thirds) made the strongest showings. 
Overall, Briggs was pleased with how the freshmen com­peted in their inaugural colle­giate regatta. 
"I'm very proud of our new sailors," she praised. "Usually, teams use only four to six sailors in a regatta, but we substituted in 12 people and still finished second." 
The sailing club next races at its first intersectional regatta of the spring season starting Thursday at Clemson. 
•The Rowing Club will have a very important meeting on r..!t;!!h!!ir:!!d..!in~th~r~e~e.!:m~o;!!r!e~.-----====~~==~==:!: 
Adrienne Briggs, "so it's a relief -~"T"7""1".,.,. to know how much depth we have to choose from." Ten races at both the A-and 
B-divisions made up Saturday's 
regatta, with ND/SMC's A-squad 
finishing second and its B-team 
third. ~~~ .!!.-1!=-1.~-.=..J.-.:=:t-1r'-+:':t-1 Freshman Bob Leonard skip­
pered four different crews loiolio;J.!-.4!.!.. 
among his ten races at A-divi-f"'-+''-+-'-~~ sion, winning one race, placing .-,..:-¥-'-..,.,_,~ '='"'~'+"'-~ 
second in another and finishing ~~~ 





The Observer 
has openings in the Sports Department for the position of: 
Sports Writer 
Contact Mike Scrudato at The Observer at 239-7 4 71. 
The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development 
Trade in the Pacific Rim 
trade relations in aforum among students, faculty, International Studies and business experts. 

~ 
" ··. . \)t~~\\\te -> • -v,~M,e' \O ~ .·:. 
·~~~~\ VV•E•D•N•E•S•D•A•Y March 25, 1992 7:00pm Hesburgh Center for 

Tuesday, March 24, 1992 The Observer page 17 


SMC tennis team cruises to 7-2 victory over Albion 
By KILEY COBLE Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team (4-4) won a tiring match against Albion College on Saturday, 7-2, in the indoor courts at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
The first home match for the Belles was highlighted by strong doubles play. 


Seniors Ellen Mayer and Ellen Mayer Marie Koscielski proved that In singles play, the Belles' they are a strong, aggressive Mayer was defeated by Myers, 
combination in the number-one 6-2, 6-4 at the first spot. At the spot. They defeated Albion's second spot, Koscielski pulledJen Myers and Jen Friedline in out a thrilling three-setter, 4-6, straight sets, 6-4, 6-1. 7-6, 7-5. Cosgrove swept her 
"Ellen is consistent with third-singles match, but junior
ground strokes," said coach Jo­Natalie Kloefer fell at the Ann Nester. "Marie is a strong number-four slot 6-0, 5-7, 6-1. server and that's good for Ellen Darby posted a 6-1, 6-0 win at 
at the net." fifth singles. 
Sophomore Mary Cosgrove Ayres had her first win of the and freshman Andrea Ayres season in singles play, beatingplay the number-two spot in Carnes 6-2, 4-6, 6-4, picking updoubles, and proved to be a the Belles' first win at sixth valuable tandem, winning singles this season. 
against Eve Kopp and Jen "Once in awhile, she was dif­Basch, 6-1, 6-1. ficult, she got everything I re­
At third doubles, sophomores turned. It shouldn't have goneThayma Darby and Shannon three sets." Ayres said. McGinn played two impressive The Belles will be in action sets, 6-4, 6-1 against Jen Kerr this afternoon at home against

and Kris Carnes. Aquinas College. so.in 
The Department of Music Spring Semester 1992 Lecture Series 
Phillip Gossett 
University ofChicago presents 
!J?.pssini at rr'UJO Hundred: Some 13icentenniaf ~Jfections 
TUESDAY, MARCH 24 
8:00P.M. 
115 Crowley Hall of Music 
The lecture is free and open to the public 



Bench 
continued from page 20 

Jon Ross took advantage of the room the K-State defense was giving him and tied his ca­reer-high with seven shots. 
"Coach MacLeod is really comfortable with me taking the outside shot. They kept leaving me open, so I kept taking it," Ross said. "I had a great week in practice and it carried over into the game." 
Though LaPhonso Ellis set a Notre Dame record with eight blocked shots and Sweet led the Irish with 16 points, the bench was the key to the win. 
"The seniors have carried us all year. It is nice to give some­thing back," Boyer commented. "We want to send them out with (the NIT) championship." 
Even with the possibility of an NIT title this season, one could not help but think of next year when the underclassmen were on the floor last night. 
However, the team is not worrying about that just yet. "Hopefully, we still have three ames left in this 

The Observer/John Bingham Freshman Malik Russell, searching for the open man here, provided steady play for the Irish off the bench in last night's NIT victory. 

Baseball 
continued from page 20 
offense in the game with two RBis and a homerun. Freshman Steve Verduzco (2 for 4) did his part while Counsell (2 for 4, 1 RBI) and Mee (1 for 4, 1 RBI) <contributed once again. 
Notre Dame starter Pat Leahy (3-1) ran into some trouble and was relieved after 5 213 innings of work on the mound by junior Dave Sinnes and freshman Craig Allen respectively. Sundevil Jeff Matranga raised his record to 7-2 and Mike Fenton got the save. 
Arizona State played almost flawless baseball in the series. "Their coach was the first to 

say that it was the best baseball that they had played in some time. They dominated us in every phase of the game," said Murphy. "I'm not pleased about the losses, but they are part of baseball." 
The freshmen provided some hope for the Irish with several starting in the series and others seeing some playing time. In the first game, Robby Birk, Paul Failla, Bob Lisanti, Craig DeSensi, Verduzco, Krause and Adams all played while Failla, and Lisanti started the second game. 
In the final game, DeSensi started as designated hitter, Failla in center, Verduzco in left, Lisanti behind the plate, and Birk at second. Allen also saw action in the contest. 
Graduate Student Union Officer Elections 
Elections will be held for the positions of President and Executive Vice-President of the Graduate Student Union for the 1992-93 academic year. All graduate student are eligible. Deadline for submission of application: March 30 
Public Forum with the Candidates: March 31 7:00PM Library Lounge 
Elections: April 2 Letters of application should include names, phone numbers, and on-campus addresses of both candidates on the ticket, and should be sent to: Elections Committee Graduate Student Union 220 LaFortune The following appointed positions will also be open: Vice-President for Administration Secretary Social Officer 
Information Officer Send letters of application for these positions to the same address. All of the above positions, both elected and appointed, are paid. Ifyou have any questions, stop by the GSU office, or call239-6963. 

Sure, there are other schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and! their chancesof being admitted into their first·choice schools. Fact is. noone has helped students score higher! 
... 



~-------------------~----------------~-~--~-----~~~--~-------~-­
page 18 

Irish 
continued from page 20 
added 15, including 7-9 from the free-throw line. Elmer Bennett, the third part of the Irish scoring machine, was nearly shut down from the field, with only two points. 
"Elmer just scored two, and we still won by 17," said Irish coach John MacLeod. "Elmer distributed the ball well with nine assists, but we showed that we can be successful when he doesn't score all the points." 
Bennett's bucket came on a shot-clock buzzer-beater with just under eight minutes re­maining in the game. The acoustic eruption that ensued was only one instance of the Thunderdome's NIT noise­making potential. 
Though last night's crowd of 6,144 was slightly smaller than the group which saw Notre Dame defeat Western Michigan last week, the decibel levels fa­cilitated by the closing of sev­eral bleacher sections in the ACC's upper reaches, coupled with the student seating behind both baskets, made for a tour­nament atmosphere. 
"That was a big crowd out there," said Sweet. " I was pleased to see it. They were ac­tive and helped us out." 
The Irish will next face Manhattan in the NIT's final eight. The Jaspers (25-8) de­feated Wisconsin-Green Bay and Rutgers to reach the NIT quarterfinals. 
The Observer 
Volleyball spike 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer ifW 
The Notre Dame Volleyball Club swept past Hope College last night 15-0, 15-1, 15-3to raise its record to 20-5. '*' · 
The Irish jumped out to a 6­0 lead in the opening game before Hope called a timeout to regroup. The strategy failed, as Notre Dame ripped off nine straight points to take the match. 
In the second game Hope managed to chalk up its first point of the night on an Irish error. It was the only point they would score, falling 15-1. 
The third game followed the same pattern, with,Hope
Gt:r. ··x· 


Rutgers loses NIT heartbreaker, 62-61 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. (AP) ­Chris Williams figured any number of his teammates could have been the hero, but he wasted little time taking advan­tage of the opportunity. 
That's because he had little time to waste. 
Williams dribbled the length of the court for a layup at the buzzer to give Manhattan a 62­61 victory over Rutgers in a second-round National Invitation Tournament game Monday night. 
Williams took the inbounds under his own basket and drib­bled up the middle of the floor. After penetrating the lane he tossed up the shot and it rattled in. 
And as the buzzer sounded, the sea came crashing down on 

The Irish play next at Andrews University on Wednesday, 1and then it's otT to the Midwest Invitational Volleyball Tournament on Friday and Saturday. ~. zh 
Reefer feels the tournament is a big step for her young t e c:lli!hFJita .. :r m .:>r; "We play allday Friday and hopefully all day Saturday," added Reefer. "If we can do well then we can accomplish one ofour " A 
Manhattan (25-8) to win two NIT games for the first time ever. This is the Jaspars' first trip to the quarter-finals since 1965, when it was a 16-team field. 
Trailing by three at halftime, Rutgers used a 10-2 run to take a 36-31 lead early in the second half. Manhattan battled back for a 42-41 lead before Rutgers scored seven straight to make it 48-42 with 9:34 left. 
Manhattan used a 5-0 spurt to get within one but Mike Jones, who had a game-high 25, scored seven points in a 9-2 run to give Rutgers a 57-49 lead. A 3-pointer by Charles Dubra and two foul shots by David Bernsley pulled Manhattan within 57-54 with 2:02left. 
Tuesday, March 24, 1992 

Junek represents women's track at Florida St. Relays 
By JOSEF EVANS Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame Women's track team was represented by a very small contingent this past weekend at the Florida State Relays in Tallahassee, with only one athlete competing. 
Freshman Lisa Junek made the trip for the Irish, making an early exit from the competition, as she placed fifth in the preliminaries for the 100 meter hurdles event with a time of 15: 31. 
"It was probably my slowest 
and Virginia's defense limited Tennessee to a season-low 32 percent from the field Monday as Virginia beat the Volunteers 77-52 in the second round of the National Invitation Tournament. 
Virginia (17 -13) dominated the game with its man-to-man defense and control of the boards. Tennessee (19-15) hit only 20 of 63 shots, including 12 consecutive misses to open the second half. 
Virginia shot just 46 percent, but the Cavaliers compensated with 14 offensive rebounds. Virginia won the overall battle on the board 43-33 with Stith also grabbing 8 rebounds. 
Florida 77, Pittsburgh 74 
time in the past two years. really don't know (what went wrong)," said Junek of the uncharacteristic performance. 
The competition was the first outdoor meet of the year, but Junek did not feel that fact hindered her performance. 
"If anything, running outside should have helped," she com­mented, offering a different ex­planation. "I guess I just wasn't ready for the race." 
With the Raleigh Relays on the horizon, hopefully this performance will turn into a blessing for Junek, providing her with incentive to improve. 
Florida advanced to the National Invitation Tournament quarterfinals with a 77-74 victory over Pittsburgh on Monday night. 
Brown, a native of Steelton, Pa., had 13 points in the second half for Florida (18-12). 
Pitt had one last chance when Florida's Dan Cross missed the second of two free throws with 4 seconds remaining. But Sean Miller's desperation jumper from just inside midcourt clanged off the rim as the buzzer sounded. 
Florida's Stacey Poole also had 17 points, 13 in the first half. Brian Hogan, who hit four 3­pointers, added 14. 
Rutgers (15-14) hurt itself by

Tickets for the 7:30p.m. con­
missing 6 of 10 foul shots in the 

test will go on sale Tuesday 
final 2:40. The Scarlet Knights'

morning at 10:00 a.m. 
inaccuracy at the line enabled 


PITTSBURGH (AP) Pitt (18-16) was led by Chris Virginia 77, Tenn.52 Sophomore Craig Brown scored McNeal's 19 points. Darren CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP) 17 points, including four free Morningstar added 18 and 
-Bryant Stith scored 19 points throws in the final minute, as Jerry McCullough had 12. 
--~------------------------~----~------~ 

•




DIDO 
oar 


..... 

I
• 

Get in"ol"ed in planning acti"ities and e"ents on campus. Make it happen here at Notre Dame! 
Positions available in each area: 
Programming: Marketing: 
• 
Campus Entertainment • Publicity 

• 
Cultural Arts • Account Executive 

• 
Ideas & Issues • Artist 

• 
Movies • Marketing Research 

• 
Music Entertainment 


Relations:
• 
Services 


• Internal Relations
• 
Special Events 

• 
External Relations 

• 
Office Manager 


STUDENT UNI()N B(>ARD 
Applications available 2nd Floor of Lafortune in Student Government or S.U.B. onices. 
Doe fPiday, MaPCh 27. 



--~ 

Today 

SPELUNKER JAY HOSLEF: 
ONE DA'I YOU'LL 
MEET A GUY TH~f CAN StE. 13£ YOND Wli R T 
You LOOk' Ut<£. 
BILL WATIERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
©Edward Julius Collegiate CW84-24 
48 Curved letter 11-ginACROSS 

49 Apportion 12 Containers 1 Hoss's brother 50-camp 13 This: Sp. 5 Meadows 52 Theatre employee 17 Chooses 9 Attention-getting 54 Command to a dog 18 Wire service 
sound 57 Narrow channel 23 Frets 13 January: Sp. 60 Sailor 24 -bourgeois 14 Move slowly 61 Miss Bancroft 27 Chemical suffix 15 Gudrun's husband 62 Annoyance (4 wds.) 29 Us: Sp.
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPIN JOHN MONKS 
16 Well-known address 65 Praise 31 -spumante
(4 wds.) 66 Fat 32 Garden problem19 French head 67 Japanese aborigines 33 Mr. Roberts 20-capita 68 Ends' partner 34 -rays21 Shows ill will 69 Fewer 35 Farewe11 22 Baseba 11 bat 70 Busch and Marsh, 36 Name for a 
wood of old movies dog 23 Comic -39 And so on (abbr.)25 Domestic trade 41 Ignited
DOWN

agency (abbr.) 44 Wise old men -. 26 -in the belfry 1 Puts in one's stake 47 Stashes 28 Poetic contraction 2 John Gunther book 49 Trifling30 Part of GBS (4 wds.) 51 Triumph33 Stout 3 Johnson of TV 53 Poker deals 35 John Jacob -4 Curly's brother 55 Asian river 37 Compass direction 5 Certain inmate 56 Driving needs 38 Kept up a sub-6 Accounting journal 57 Normandy town 
scription items (2 wds.)40 Keep apart 7 Alas: Ger. 58 Bandleader Jones 42 From -Z 8 "-Funny That 59 Cultivate 43 Restrict Way" 61 -Minor 45 Brightly-colored 9 Loses one's cool 63 Scottish denial 46 Strip of-wood 10 A -in time --64 -Browne belt 
CAMPUS 
Tuesday 

5 p.m. 12th Anniversary of the Martyrdom of Salvadorean Archbishop Romero, Mass. Chapel, Alumni Hall. Sponsored by World Peace Action Group. 
7:30 p.m. Discussion, "Killing Us Softly -Images of Women in the Media,· Pat White, Saint Mary's College, dean of faculty, and Kathleen Weigert, Notre Dame University Counseling Center. 


Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by CARE, SOS, Notre Dame Student Government, ND Safe Walk, Saint Mary's College Residence Life, Notre Dame Counseling Center and the Graduate Student's Women's Resource Committee. 9:15p.m. Film, "Written on the Wmd." Annenberg Auditorium. 
Crossing the village, Mowaka is overpowered by army 
Wednesday 
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Book Sale. Concourse, Hesburgh Library. 
Keeping the Faith, 12:15 p.m. Slide Show, "Peace Breaks Out," Stephen Moriarty, presenter. Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by World Action 

Sponso1red by 

Peace Group. 
· 16th 

·----·-----···-----·--···~·. ------------­
JUNGLE l?EvEa 
Friday, March 28 
... 

Saturday, March 29



sleeping with 
Cushing Aud:itorium

the enemy 
Admission is $2 "A TERRIFYINGLY GOOD ROMANTIC 8 PM & 10:30 PM THRILLER!" 
PAT COLLINS, WWOR-TV, NEW YORK 
Thursday, March 27 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 





Sports 

Irish roll on in NIT 
Team effort keys 64-47 win 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Associate Sports Editor 
Here come the Jaspers. 
Notre Dame's 17 -point demolition of an outmuscled Kansas State team last night makes Manhattan College the next date on the Irish schedule. The Irish will play the Jaspers Wednesday night at 7:30p.m. at the ACC. 
Kansas State (16-14) was no match for the Irish last night under the Thunderdome, as Notre Dame used a stifling de­fensive effort to smother the Wildcats, 64-4 7. 
The Irish never trailed, controlling the one-sided contest from tip-off to buzzer. After building a twelve-point halftime lead, the Irish advantage never dropped below 11, and the team coasted to the 17 -point victory. 
Leading by eight points after just five minutes, Notre Dame seemed to relax, and Kansas State was able to climb back into contention. When the Wildcats cut the margin to four with 7:00 left, Notre Dame, largely led by its four sophomores and freshman Malik Russell, went on a 15-5 run to close the half with a 12-point lead. 
The Wildcats would not come any closer. 
Notre Dame's LaPhonso Ellis put on a game-long defensive show, ripping down fifteen rebounds and blocking eight Wildcat shots. 
Ellis' eight blocked shots marked a career-high and a single-game Notre Dame record. Teaming inside with fellow senior Keith Tower for most of the game, Ellis clogged the lane, intimidating Kansas State's small lineup. 
"The shots seemed like they were in slow motion," said Ellis. "I just went up after them." Carl Cozen and Malik Russell added two blocks apiece to bring the Irish total to 12, a new school record. Daimon Sweet led the Irish with 16 points, while Ellis 
see IRISH/page 18 


Bench shines through in Irish win 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
Last night, the Notre Dame men's basketball team finally gave John MacLeod what he had been looking for all season. 
The Irish used a well-balanced scoring attack, including 22 points from the bench, to crush Kansas State, 64-47, at the Joyce ACC. 
Leading the barrage was the much­maligned group of sophomores-Brooks Boyer, Carl Cozen and Joe and Jon Ross. 
"We all know that we can play. We don't have to prove anything to ourselves," Boyer said. 
With the starters in first half foul trouble, the sophs and freshman Malik Russell were forced into action with the Irish up 23-16 at the 4:26 mark. Daimon Sweet replaced Boyer at 2:36, but the rest of the reserves stayed in the game for the remainder of the half, increasing the Notre Dame edge to 33­
21. 
"We play together in practice a lot, so we feel comfortable playing together," explained Jon Ross, who had eight points. 

"The team is really coming together. Different people are starting to step up for us, and that is what we are going to need down the road." 
MacLeod was pleased with the total team effort that led to last night's victory. 
"It was a great way to save the starters and instill some confidence in our bench players," MacLeod commented. "They {the reserves) were in the game long enough to calm down and get into the flow of the game. Their confidence is growing, and I'm not reluctant to put them into the game now. 
"Tonight, Carl {Cozen) gave us a good strong physical game, and Jon Ross gave us some hoops when we needed them." 
Cozen had the most impressive stats of the group with seven points, five rebounds, which tied a career-high, four assists and two blocked shots, which were both career­bests. 
see BENCH I page 17 

Baseball team falls at hands of Arizona State 
and every missed shot, intensifying in 
By JENNY MARTEN 

both volume and vulgarity until 
Associate Sports Editor

reaching its peak (or so we thought) with the altercation between Keith After winning three tourna­
Tower and Stephen Howard with 
ments to start out the year, the around six minutes left. 

Notre Dame baseball team got

This incident not only got them out 
a reality check at Arizona 

of their seats, shouting epithets at the State. The Sundevils (19-8)
Irish as they swayed back and forth, 
swept the Irish (10-5) in a three-game series over the

see SIDELINE/page 15 
weekend. 

-
"It was a good wake-up call 
Craig Counsell for us," said Notre Dame
INSIDE SPORTS 
coach Pat Murphy. "We came back to reality a little and 
realized that we are not in midseason form." 

Volleybal sweeps Hope 
In addition, the games marked the first time that the Irish 

see page 18 
played on a natural surface. With the South Bend weather as it is, the team has yet to have a practice outside. In the first game of the series on Friday, Arizona State de­

SMC tennis victorious 
feated Notre Dame 16-2. Pitcher Doug Newstrom (3-2) earned the win for the Sundevils by holding the Irish to five hits in

see page 17 
seven full innings of work. Junior pitcher Chris Michalak (3-1) took the loss for Notre Dame. 
The Irish were led at the plate by senior Craig Counsell (2 for 4, 1 RBI), senior Cory Mee (2 for 3, 1 double, 1 run), and

Sailing club impresses 
see page 16 
sophomore Matt Haas (1 for 2, 1 RBI, 1 run). 
Arizona State jumped out to an early lead with two runs in the second inning. Notre Dame put a single run on the board

DuBose, Mirer co-captains 
an inning later and in the sixth inning, but the Sundevils put see page 15 
the Irish away with an eight-run sixth inning. In Saturday's game, Notre Dame kept within striking range until the seventh inning, when the Sundevils pulled away for 


Tuesday, March 24, 1992 

The Observer/John Bingham Sophomore Brooks Boyer, who had three points, and the rest of the Notre Dame bench sparked the Irish to a 64-47 victory over Kansas 
State. 
Marciniak to transfer 
Observer Staff Report 
Last night Notre Dame freshman Michelle Marciniak, who came the women's basket­ball team as one of the country's most highly-recruited players, confirmed reports that she will transfer from the university. 
"Things just did not work out for me here," Marciniak told the Observer. "Notre Dame is a great place, but it is not the place for me." 
Right now she is considering Penn State, Rutgers. Tennessee and Virginia. 
Marciniak was Notre Dame's second-leading scorer this sea­son, averaging 12.0 points per game during the regular season. However, she only started 16 of the team's 31 games. 

the 10-5 win. The Irish picked up two runs in the first inning, but the Sundevils scraped together two runs of their own in the first. Notre Dame took the lead in the second until Arizona State scored three in the fourth and one in the fifth to take the lead for good. 
The Irish threatened in the seventh with a two-run burst that brought them within one again. A three-run bottom of the seventh and one-run eighth for the Sundevils took Notre Dame out of the game for good. 
Counsell had another big day offensively for the Irish with two hits, two runs, and three RBls. Binkiewicz also starred at the plate for Notre Dame with a two-run homer in the seventh. Counsell put a hit of his own over the fence in the game. 
Junior pitcher AI Walania (1-2) was the loser after pitching 6 1/3 innings and allowing 11 hits and five earned runs. Sophomore Tom Price relieved Walania in the seventh, but gave up four hits and three earned runs. Sundevil Sean Lowe (6-2) got the win while Brent Smith notched the save. 
Sunday's game was the closest of the three with Arizona State capturing the 9-5 win. Once again, Notre Dame got on the board first with a run in the first inning. The Sundevils grabbed two in the second to make the Irish lead short-lived. The Irish tied it up in the third only to let Arizona State score two of their own in the bottom half of the inning. 
Both teams scored a run in the fifth, but Arizona State scored another in the sixth to widen their lead. A three-run seventh looked like it might be the end of the Irish until Notre Dame responded with two in the eighth, but they would get no closer. 
Junior Eric Danapilis (3 for 4} provided most of the Irish 
see BASEBALL I page 17 









