---·-----~---~--------­
The Observer
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1992
VOL. XXV. -NO. 2 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Professors: Perot to have low impact 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT News Writer 
Ross Perot's re-entry into the presidential race will not have a serious impact on the outcome of the ele~;tion at this stage, according to Government Professor David Leege, because Perot has lost much of the substantial support he had in July. 
"Only about a third of the people who formerly supported Perot will even consider voting for him now," said Leege. 
Robert Schmul, chairman of American Studies, agreed saying, "Perot was a legitimate candidate during the late spring and early summer. Now, he is a genuine protest candidate." 
Perot has become a "protest candidate," Schmuhl said, because most of his votes will come from people who hate Bush and Clinton or those who generally hate politics in America. 
Although Perot will mobilize 
********** 
ELECTION 192 
• Religious strategy I page 6 

the votes of these people, Leege said that "it will not be enough to make a difference in the election." 
Both Leege and Schmuhl believed that Perot re-entered the race because he wanted to save his ego, which was hurt when he left the presidential race in mid-July. "More than anything else, it was an ego­saving act on Perot's part," Schmuhl said. 
Perot will attract the attention of the American public through an inte~e media campaign, according to Schmuhl. "Because of the volatile nature of the electorate this year, his media performances might have more of an impact than the votes he'll receive, especially if Perot participates in the presidential debates." Schmuhl said. 

The Observer/ Adriana Rodriguez 

You, too, can be Lou 
Pangborn juniors Laura Schnorenberg, Jamie Morris, Kuaren Kolodzieg, left to right, shown selling Lou Holtz masks on Saturday. Each mask is sold for three dollars and the money raised will benefit the Madison Center and its aid of the mentally ill homeless. 

Tornadoes bring another episode of destruction to Florida 
LARGO, Fla. (AP) ­Tornadoes  destroyed and 100 to 200  Schweitzer, a utility worker who  of Largo ­weren't immediately  Don Holcomb.  
brought a new round of  homes were seriously damaged.  recently returned from the area  available.  "The storm did a lot of jump­ 
destruction to Florida on Satur­ Pinellas County spokeswoman  devastated by Hurricane  Some homes were left a pile of  ing and skipping. We actually  
day, killing four people at mo­ Ronnie Goldstein said 25 people  Andrew. "There's so much  splinters and roofs were torn  had people in their yard watch  
bile home parks and smashing  were injured countywide.  devastation. House after house.  down to the plywood. Three  a tornado pass over and then  
dozens of houses into splinters  By early evening, Pinellas  The only difference is that in  shelters opened and about 30  drop down and hit another  
in the Tampa Bay area, author­ Park authorities said they had  Miami, it was more  people were bused in from  home a block away," Holcomb  
ities said.  surveyed the worst-hit buildings  widespread."  damaged neighborhoods.  said.  
A two-day storm with winds  and didn't expect to discover  One woman was killed and  "Everything that was in our  Pinellas Park resident Eric  
gusting to 90 mph also was  more deaths.  her husband injured at the In­ living room is in our kitchen  Knurr said police had blocked  
blamed for sinking a freighter.  In Pinellas Park, the storm left  dian Rocks Mobile Home Park  and everything in our kitchen is  off the damaged area. "You  
All 15 crew members were  someone else's front door  in Largo, where many of the  in our garage," said Kathy  have to sign up at a command  
rescued after the 255-foot Hol­ jammed in the side of one  152 trailers were damaged,  Hyatt, who came to a shelter  post," he said. "You can't go  
stein went down with 2,000  woman's house; a car stuck in a  manager Jennie Husfelt said.  with her husband and two chil­ farther than two blocks because  
tons of flour late Friday in the  pine tree; and two other cars  "Her trailer flipped over and  dren. "I can't believe we're all  streets are blocked."  
Gulf of Mexico.  upended, sandwiched together  she was caught in it," Ms. Hus­ OK."  President Bush escaped one  
The tornadoes killed three  against an outer wall of a  felt said, adding that the  The tornado that touched  tornado by about 70 minutes,  
people at a mobile home park  house.  woman's husband "is all cut."  down in Largo wrecked a gas  hopping aboard Air Force One  
in Pinellas Park and one in  Larry Schweitzer's water  She said many homes are va­ station, knocked down bill­ at St. Petersburg-Clearwater  
nearby Largo as they raged  heater was imbedded in the  cant at this time of year be­ boards and shredded a nursery,  Airport after the first of four  
from mid-morning to early  back wall of his garage, 4 feet  cause they are owned by winter  twisting an iron gate and  Florida campaign stops. The pi­ 
afternoon, said Pinellas Park  above the ground. The rest of  residents.  scattering blobs of insulation  lot of the press charter reported  
Police spokesman Lee Lerchen.  the garage was missing.  Details of the three deaths at  over the parking lot.  seeing flying debris and  
Pinellas Park Mayor Cecil  "This street reminds me of  the mobile home park in  Police were investigating re­ exploding electrical transform­ 
Bradbury said 84 homes were  Miami, big time," said  Pinellas Park ­10 miles south  ports of looting, said Police Sgt.  ers.  

Career Day to acquaint A&L students with options 
By JOE MONAHAN will be set aside so that News Writer representatives may answer questions students have and 
The annual Arts and Letters provide literature. Career Day tomorrow is aimed "The focus is for students to to acquaint liberal arts explore and investigate the va· students with the various riety of careers that are repre­career options they might sented." said Reynolds. "The consider pursuing l!POn people there represent career graduation. fields, not a particular com­
"(It's) a 'Career Fair'-stu­pany-so don't bring your re· dents can walk by and talk in­sumes, it's not a recruiting ef-. formally with representatives fort." in the fields of work in which That's not to say that profes­they are interested. They can sional companies won't be learn about and gain informa­represented. In fact, most of tion on a variety of fields in a the people involved with the short amount of time," said Career Day aren't even 
Paul Reynolds, associate associated with the University. director for Career and "If Notre Dame doesn't Placement Services (CPS) specialize in it, why should which is sponsoring the event. someone from the University 
The event will be held on the be there to represent that lower level of the Center for particular field? It's good for Continuing Education from students to talk to people who 
noon until 4 p.m. and areas see CAREER I page 4 
Israeli cargo plane crashes, triggers firestorm 
AMSTERDAM, Netherlands (AP) -An Israeli cargo jet with engine trouble crashed into an apartment complex Sunday night shortly after takeoff and triggered a firestorm that raced through a crowded suburb. 
At least 12 bodies were re­covered, but Dutch television said police feared up to 200 people may have died. The El AI Boeing 747 carried a three-man crew and one woman pas­senger, the carrier said. 
The pil9t was trying to wrestle the jet back to Schiphol Airport when it slammed into the nine­story apartment building, spewing flames and burning wreckage over a wide area of Duivendrecht (pronounced DOW-ven-drecht). 
Residents searched frantically for family members in the hellish landscape of fire, smoke and chaos. Some people jumped out of the windows of their apartments to escape the inferno, radio reported. 
"It crashed right into the building. I saw the wings and all ignited. It exploded into one huge sea of fire," said resident Mark van der Linden. 
Two nine-story apartment complexes was set ablaze. Mayor Ed van Thijn of Duiven­drecht said at least 50 apart­ments were gutted. 
Helicopters fitted with searchlights illuminated the scene for hundreds of rescue workers. Police reported looting in a nearby shopping mall. 
The Amsterdam Medical Center Hospital said it treated at least 27 burn victims. 
Airline officials dismissed early suspicion of a terrorist strike, which could have jeop­ardized sensitive Middle East peace talks. 
Yisrael Cherbin, cargo man­ager for El Al in Amsterdam, said the plane's captain re· ported problems with two engines after takeoff and asked to return to the airport, about 10 miles south of Amsterdam. 
"He's returning to land, and when he said he was landing, it crashed," said Cherbin. 
The plane flew over a lake to dump fuel and crashed about 
6:30 p.m. (1:30 p.m. EDT) on the turn to make a new ap­proach to Schiphol, one of Eu­rope's busiest airfields. 
"I saw the plane going nose­down with the left wing up and the right wing down behind the next flat (apartment) building," said a witness to the crash, photographer Peter de Neef. 
"The engines were smoking," the witness said, "and then I heard the pilot trying to pull up and then I didn't see it and I saw sparks coming in the air." 
,.....--~-----­
page 2 Monday, October 5, 1992
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Magic's HIV 

doesn't make 




him a hero 

November 7, 1991 was indeed a sad day in the wide world of sports. After twelve seasons as the NBA's premier ambassador, Earvin "Magic" Johnson announced his retirement from a league which he 
helped turn into a Kevin Hardman worldwide entertainment, Ad Design Manager marketing and sports phenomenon. 
One of the greatest players ever, a five time NBA champion and a three time MVP, had to retire because he had contracted HIV, the virus that causes AIDS. With this news, Johnson became one of the most visible spokespeople on AIDS and its sufferers. 
Before his retirement, Johnson was a basketball hero to millions worldwide. In his 12 seasons he and his unforgettable smile turned the Los Angeles Lakers into "Showtime." Yet since the news last November, he has been elevated to a new status. Not simply a sports hero but a hero for all of humanity. 
According to most doctors, you have the greatest chance of contracting HIV if you are a intravenous drug user or someone who has numerous sexual partners. "Magic" did not contract HIV because he was a hemophiliac who received tainted blood, nor did he catch the virus from an infected physician. Johnson has the HIV virus because he claims to have had many sexual partners. Some say that he is a homosexual, but AIDS has no sexual preference. "Magic" Johnson, may not have realize the consequences of having many partners. Even i he did, he obviously thought that this activity was a worthwhile risk. Like thousands o others, "Magic" made a wager for his life and lost. His life is now in danger. Many make this wager and appear unharmed, yet are these actions of responsible people? Responsible people don't sacrifice their health, their happiness and their family's happiness for a few moments of pleasure. 
Isn't it unfortunate that a man who has been so ultimately irresponsible is now viewed as a role model for todays youth? It is understandable that such an awesome basketball player should be idolized for his on­court ability. He is, in fact, one of the greatest ever, yet the praise should end there. 


AIDS is one of the most preventable diseases we know of. It is not hereditary and is not transmitted through casual contact. It strikes those who have not prepared. 
The championship rings and the trophies are unimportant now. "Magic" Johnson has lost this game. He is in no way a role model for our young. He should be an example of what results from sexual promiscuity, what results from irresponsibility, and what can happen from "no­strings attached" sex. Johnson's situation should pose this question: "Is a few moments o sexual pleasure worth your life?" 
His triumph in the Olympics and his sub­sequent return to the NBA should be proof that those who are HIV infected can function in society. His decision to forge onward is indeed valiant but the fact remains there is a inconsistancy in the values he apparently holds and the role he is trying to play. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 

News Alicia Reale Sarah Doran  Production Cynthia Ehrhardt Melissa Cusack  
Sports George Dohrmann  Systems Jon Halloran  

Viewpoint Accent 
Cynthia Ehrhardt Susan Marx 
Lab Tech 
Marguerite Schropp 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 
L 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
Harvard to pay workers with AIDS 
•BOSTON -Doctors, nurses and other employees of Harvard University and its hospitals will receive $100,000 in insurance benefits if they become infected with the AIDS virus on the job. The program, appar­ently the first of its kind, will pay the money immedi­ately to any of the 50,000 students and employees who prove job-related HIV infection, even if they are still healthy. Job-acquired AIDS infections are rare, although they can happen from needle jabs and other exposure to potentially tainted blood. The university estimates the program will pay an average of one claim a year. 

Murderer of three claims self defense 
•MIAMI-A National Guardsman charged with fatally stabbing three people he met in a bar told police he acted in self defense and raped two of the victims. Steven Coleman confessed to police that he stabbed the victims but only after one of them, Ronald Quisbert, pulled a knife on him. The victims were identified as Quisbert, 20; Regina Rodriguez, 15, and Andrew 


OF INTEREST 
•Notre 
Dame Aids Awareness Club will hold an organizational meeting tonight at 7p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune Student Center. 

•Interested 
in international marketing ? Mike Bruno, International Marketing Hepresentative for Polygon Co. will speak about marketing in today's international marketplace Tuesday at 12:30p.m. in Hayes-Healy, room 120. Sponsored by the ND MBA International Business Club. 

•Resume 
writing labs are being offered three times this sememster for students starting their resume on Wednesday, October 7, Monday, October 12 (DeBartolo) and Tuesday, October 13 (Math Building). Details will 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING October 2 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 187,414,700 ·2.92 to 225.81 S&P COMPOSITE 

-5.82 to 410.47 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
-53.76 to 3200.61

UNCHANGED 566 

GOLD 
+ .60 to $348.10 SILVEH 
+ .02 to $3.757 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
1931: Clyde Pangborn and Hugh Herndon completed the first non-stop flight across the Pacific Ocean. 

• 
In 1962: The Beatles' first hit, "Love Me Do," was released in the United Kingdom. 

• 
In 1970: Anwar Sadat was elected president of Egypt, succeeding Gamal Abdel Nasser. 

• 
In 1975: Congress ordered a halt to strip mining in California's Death Valley. 

• 
In 1982: The manufacturer of Tylenol recalled all capsules of the pain reliever after eight people were killed by contaminated capsules. 

• 
In 1983: Solidarity founder Lech Walesa was named winner of the Nobel Peace Pri;ze. 


< Sunny and mild to­
•·•••••·•·· day with a high·.··•·. around 65, but cooler ( tonight with a low in <:; the upper 30s. Sunny 
) tomorrow with highs in the upper 60s. 
TEMPERATURES 
H  L  
43  30  
70  57  
64  43  
71  58  
90  70  
78  51  
73  51  
80  55  
Detroit  75  51  
Indianapolis  73  47  
Jerusalem  90  68  
London  64  54  
Los Angeles  78  61  
Madrid  82  52  
Minneapolis  84  52  
Moscow  48  28  
Nashville  76  49  
New York  71  55  
Paris  57  52  
Philadelphia  72  54  
Rome  82  61  
Seattle  59  57  
South Bend  68  52  
Tokyo  73  64  
Washington. D.C.  71  50  


McGinnis, 22. Rodriguez and McGinnis had been sexu­ally assaulted, probably after their deaths, investigators say. The attacks occurred in a parking lot at Florida International University near the National Guard camp where Coleman was in the area to unload relief supplies for victims of Hurricane Andrew. 
Si1R:r tears up Pope's picture on TV 
•N YORK -Pop singer Sinead O'Connor tore up a photograph of Pope John Paul II on "Saturday Night Live," furthering her reputation for anti-establishment demonstrations. After the last verse of the reggae song 'War', which blasts racism and class-structured societies, she said, "Fight the real enemy," then held up the 8-by-12 color photo of the Roman Catholic leader and slowly ripped it to pieces. The demonstration was met with silence from the studio audience. O'Connor closed by blowing out several candles, then walked otT stage. 
be given about recommended resume content, using Resume expert Plus, proper completion of important placement codes, and other tips for preparing an effective resume. With limited space available, preregistration is required. Call Career and Placement Services at 239-5200 for further information or to sign up. 
•sophomore JPW committee applications are now available for those interested in getting involved with Junior Parents' Weekend 1993. Applications can be picked up at the information desk in LaFortune and are due at the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune, by 4p.m. Friday. Any questions call Rachel MacManus at 283-2985. 
' 
~--------------------------------------------------------------~~------------------------­
The Observer 

Monday, uctooer o, 1~~2 


Respect Life Week events to draw attention to the horrors of abortion 
By THERESA ALEMAN News Writer 
Respect Life Week exists to "draw attention to the horror of 4400 babies killed daily -that's one every twenty seconds in the United States alone," said Claire Johnson, member of the Notre Dame Right to Life orga­nization. This week, October 4­11, is annual national Respect Life week. 
Johnson stressed the current urgency of the group's mission because it is an election year and also because there is a bill in Congress which could con­ceivably eliminate current re­strictions on abortion. 
"People need to be educated on the dangers abortion posPs to both the unborn and to t hP mot.hnrs. A girl can't pinr~P. IH'r ears before she's eighteen without parPntal ronsent, isn't abortion a more serious deci­sion?" Johnson said. 
The Notre Dame chapter of the Right to Life organization exists to "inform students of the problems of abortion and let them do something about it," said Bill Keen of the ND Right to Life Organization. 
The ND chapter consists of 500 members, 200 of whom are active. This group has ex­isted on Notre Dame campus since 1973, according to John­son. 
Right to lifers began the week 

Club Column 
OCTOBER 5,1992 

1) ~~~.Clubs must make an appointment with their division chairs for t~e1r f1rs.t semester meetings. Information pertinent to all clubs will be discussed. Contact your division chair for an appointment time. And remember to check your mailboxes regularly. 
2) Campus F~llowship me.eting on Friday, 10/9 at 7:30p.m. 
3) Campus. Bible Fellowship meeting Tuesday, 7:00p.m. room 304 Haggar, Samt Mary's College. Hay-Ride Friday, 5:30p.m .. Questions call Steve at 272-8890. 
4) Children of M~ry invites anyone interested in praying the rosary every Monday-Fnday at 4:30 p.m. in the Grace Chapel. 
5) Notre Dame Accounting Association presents: Conviser Duffy public and corporate accounting, Tuesday, October 6, 6 p.m., room 222 Hayes-Healy. 
6) ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club meeting Thursday 10/8 is can­celled. 
7) Bap~ist Student Union meets 7 p.m. every Monday at the Center for Social Concerns. September 8, in the foster room. 
8) Amnesty International meeting Sun. Oct. 11 at 8:30 in the Montgomery room. 
9) ~tudent Alumni Belations g,roup meeting Tuesday, 10/6 at 7 
p.m. in Lafortune's Notre Dame Room. 
10) Psychology Club mandatory meeting Tues. 10/6 at 7 p.m. at 117 Haggar. 
11) M. U: N. Cl~b meeting Monday, 10/5 at 7 p.m. 124 Hayes-Healy. 
12) English MaJors Society meeting 10/7 at 5 p.m. on second floor 0 South Dining Hall. 
13) ND/SMC Equestrian Club horse show Sunday 10/11. Questions 
call Megan at 283-2784. 14)':Aedieval Club meeting Thursday, 10/8 at 7:30 in the Medieval Institute (7th floor of library) IS CANCELLED. 
15) Right to Life Group meeting Tuesday 10/6 at 7:30 p.m. in 122 Hayes-Healy. 
16) Anthropology Club meeting Tonight 10/5 at 7 p.m. in Lafortune's Foster Room. 
17) Toastmasters International of Notre Dame meets every Tuesday at 7 p.m. in Lafortune's Foster Room. 
All ~~~ist~red clubs may place short announcements of meetings and· act!Villes 1n the CLUB COLUMN. Entries are due in the Club Coordination Council Office by 5 p.m. on Thursday. 
Come and See 

Campus Bible Study* 
•c. B.S. 
Inter Faith Bible Study Tuesday, October 6, 1992 and every Tuesday 
Meetings: 7:00 P.M. one hour sessions (bring your own Bible) in the Conference Room of Campus Ministry Badin Hall 
Directed by: Fr. AID'Alonzo, C.S.C. For additional information call: 239-6633 or 239-5955 
All are invited to attend 
1m1 
0MPUS 
MNISTRY 


yesterday with a "life chain" 
consisting of 15 to 20 ND and 
SMC students. Stationed across 
the street from Notre Dame 
campus on Route 31, students 
displayed pro-life signs such 
as,"Adoption ... the loving op­
tion." 
Tomorrow, the group plans to 
have active members of the 
National Right to Life group 
give speeches in Hayes Healy at 
7:30 p.m. according to Johnson. Friday the group plans to picket the South Bend abortion clinic and Saturday they plan to pray the rosary all day outside the clinic. 
In addition to these sched­uled events, the group will dis­play crosses representative of aborted babies on campus and will maintain "a presence" of at least two right to life members for every hour the clinic re­mains open this week, said Keen.
r======_________:oQJt[]h~er._rQCOQ.!m:D_I!m).!:!u~n'!!it~~ro~up_ps participating. 

OFFICE Of KECRE.\ fllJ~:\L SPORTS 

CAMPUS BADMINTON-MEN AND WOMEN UNDERGRADUATES GRADUATE STUDENTS FACULTY AND STAFF 
VOLLEYBALL IHMEN IHWOMEN 
CO-REC BASKETBALL 
ENTRIES BEGIN SEPT 28 
ENTRY DEADLINE -OCTOBER 7 

STUDY & TRAVEL IN THE ORIENT 
Saint Mary's College 
?-t~ounq r1 
"

:;  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~­«'  

Orientation Session 
Tuesday, October 6 7:00pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium Full Semester of Study in Madras, India 
Travel Includes: Jap~n, .Hong Kong, China, Singapore, Ph1hppmes, Thailand, Nepal and India plus optional time in Europe 
All ND and S~C Students Eligible 

Study:Romanian women died in anti-abortion era 
WASHINGTON (AP) -More than 10,000 women died from illegal abortions and about 200,000 children were placed in orphanages while an anti­abortion law was in effect in Romania, a new study shows. 
In a report published Monday in the American Journal of Public Health, researchers said that a ban on elective abortion and on contraception in Roma­nia "resulted in the highest · maternal mortality rate in Eu­rope and in thousands of un­wanted children in institu­tions." 
The study is based on the 

statistics of births and maternal 
deaths during the 23-year pe­
riod after 1966 when Romanian 
president Nicolae Ceaucescu 
introduced policies that 
outlawed abortion and con­
traception, and actively prose­
cuted doctors who performed 
unauthorized abortions. 
Purpose of the policy change, 

the study said, was to increase 
the reproduction rate and 
population in Romania. It 
failed. 
"After a brief rise, the crude 
birth rate fell and continued to 
fall," the study found. 
"Romania did not succeed in 
sustaining desired levels of re­
production and natural in­
crease." 
What did increase, the study 
found, was the number of 
abortion-related maternal 
deatHs. Prior to the law, ma­
ternal death rates in Romania 
were consistent with those 
elsewhere in Europe of less 
than 20 per 100,000 live births. 
"For the decade 1980 to 1989, the average Romanian maternal mortality rate was 150 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births," the study said. "Many women obtained abortion illegally and every year approximately 500 otherwise-healthy women of childbearing age died from post abortion hemorrhage" or other complications. 
"The anti-abortion law in Romania resulted in over 10,000 deaths of women from unsafe abortion," the study re­ported. 
--~

..-------------­
The Observer 

page 4 
Bush takes a risk on cable veto 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Of three dozen bills President Bush has vetoed, none is more loaded with potential political peril than his weekend rejec­tion of re-regulation of cable TV rates. 
Behind in the polls and ac­cused by Democrats of callous­ness to the hardship caused by a poor economy, Bush is gambling that he can prevail in Congress and persuade the voters that the bill was a mis­guided effort to curb cable rates. 
"He made a mistake," Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton said Sunday. "I would have signed it." 
The president has won every veto showdown so far, and White House strategists fear that a defeat now would be viewed as a sign of weakness with the election a month away. To forestall that, the president invited a group of Republican senators to the White House on Sunday. 
But if elections are decided on pocketbook issues, this one carries clout. The bill was drafted in part to respond to consumer complaints about spiraling prices, and its spon­sors proclaim it loudly as an ef­fective remedy. 
Nqr is it the only measure aimed at middle-class voters that Democrats have served up for vetos in the waning days of the 102nd Congress. Bush re­jected a bill to give many work­ers time off to deal with family emergencies, and another to liberalize abortion counseling available at federally funded family planning clinics. 
He was sustained in both of those, but Democrats seemed content. "This issue frames this campaign. Yes, it really is about who is for families," Rep. Patricia Schroeder, D-Colo., said last week as Republicans sustained the veto of the "family leave" bill. 
At the same time, Democrats have ducked other confronta­tions where Bush might have held the high ground politically. When the president vowed at the Republican National Con­vention to veto spending bills that exceeded his request, Democrats quietly trimmed them to avoid being labeled big spenders. 
The latest bill Bush vetoed would cap rates for basic cable service, open the door to com­petition from emerging pro­grammers like home satellite services, and let broadcasters seek compensation for cable's use of their signals. 
In his veto message, the president called it "good inten­tions gone wrong," and said Congress had "fallen prey to special interests." 
"The simple truth is that un­der this legislation cable televi­sion rates will go up, not down," the president said. "Competition will not increase, it will stagnate. In addition, this legislation will cost American jobs and discourage investment in telecommunications." 
He said the bill would require cable companies to bear the costs of new regulations, and higher cable rates would result. 
But Bush's attitude toward the bill is not universal among members of his party. And his ability to sustain a veto re­mained in doubt Sunday. Co­sponsored by Sen. John Dan­forth, R-Mo., the measure passed the Senate supported by 24 Republicans and opposed by only 18. 
Penn. Governor Casey fails on second try to give N.Y. his anti-abortion speech 
NEW YORK (AP) -After two tries, Pennsylvania's Gov. Robert Casey is still looking for a way to get his liberal-against­abortion message across to an audience in New York. 
Barred from giving his speech to the Democratic Party convention here in July, the governor returned Friday to deliver the same lecture at a gathering sponsored by The Village Voice -but abandoned his effort after protesters represented at least three groups, the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power, known as ACT UP; the Women's Health Action Mobilization, or WHAM; and the Ad-hoc Coalition to Save Mumia Abu Jamal, a convicted cop killer on Pennsylvania's death row. 
"It was old-fashioned fas­cism," Nat Hentoff, a Voice columnist who served as host for the meeting, said Saturday. 
the free exchange of ideas," he said. "Sometimes I think there are about eight people in the United States who believe in free speech, and I haven't found them yet." 
He said Casey has delivered his "Can a Liberal be Pro-life?" message to Pennsylvania audi­ences without disruption. Casey was "genuinely surprised that these people wouldn't even lis­ten," Hentoff said. 
Monday, October 5, 1992 



Armando's Barber & Hair Style Shop 1639 Edison Road South Bend, IN 46637 
Walking Distance from Campus Across from the Linebacker Appointments Encouraged Walk-ins taken on a 111 come. 111 serve basis 
drowned him out with chants  
and shouts.  "The left is no better than the  
Witnesses said the hecklers  right when it comes to denying  
Career  opportunities available, student interest that year and on the practicality of having a particu­ 
continued from page 1  lar field represented. Only ap­propriate fields are repre­ 
who are out there in the real  sented-ones we think that the  
world and have experience in  students are interested in and  
those careers that they are in­ are prepared for. We won't  
terested in," said Reynolds.  have electrical or aerospace  
He is especially interested in  engineering there because  
getting sophomores and juniors  those fields don't apply to most  
to the event because he feels  students in the College of  
that career day would have the  Arts&Letters."  
greatest.impact upon them.  
"The career day is primarily for  This dosen't mean that ca­ 
seniors, but we would also like  reer day is just for students in  
to see a large amount of juniors  Arts &Letters, either. "If you  
and sophomores there because  are interested in some of the  
seniors usually have a good  fields represented, stop by and  
idea of what they want to do.  talk to the people there and  
Non-seniors aren't so sure.  find out if it's what you thought  
Career day offers them an  it was." said Reynolds "just be­ 
opportunity to talk to  cause you are majoring in X  
professionals and get an idea of  doesn't mean you can only go  
what it is 'really' like." said  into X, Y and Z-non-majoring  
Reynolds.  students can stop by and gain a  
The informal format of  lot of information on other  
career day is also a help to  fields that they might be inter­ 
students. Instead of having to  ested in."  
be lectured to and herded from  
presentation to presentation,  Besides learning about the  
students can talk to  actual fields themselves, stu­ 
representatives in fields of their  dents can also gain information  
choice and stay as long as they  about breaking into careers in  
want. "No talks, no  fields which aren't usually as­ 
presentations, students just  sociated with Notre Dame.  
walk by and talk to whoever  "Some careers. such as those in  
they want to." said Reynolds.  broadcasting and public rela­ 
Now in its 14th year, approx­ tions, don't even send repre­ 
imately 30 career fields will be  sentatives to campus to recruit.  
represented at Career day,  A student interested in these  
from advertising to social ser­ areas can talk to someone and  
vice to industrial design to  not only learn about what it's  
sports marketing. "We try to  like but also find out about how  
keep it between 30-40 fields  to get started in those fields as  
each year; content depends on  well." said Reynolds.  

Being a Marine Corps Officer can open the door to opportu­e-o1ch paying more than $1,300 nities you may have thought were beyond your reach. It • Juniors train in one ten-week summer session and earn helped Marine Officer Charles Bolden become a NASA astro­more than $2,200 naut. And if you're willing to make the commitment, it could 
• Free civilian Dying lessons help you also. You can get started while you're in coUege 
• Astarting salary of more than $22,000
with our undergraduate officer com­missioning program. You could take advantage of getting: 
• 
$100 a month while in school 

• 
Freshmen and Sophomores train during two six-week summer sessions 


Kewantxou 
togoasTar 
Immediately upon graduation you could become a Marine ~ Officer. It's your choice. Maybe you're the kind of · · man we're looking for. 
Tbe1ft Tbe Proud. Tbe Mluines. 



~onday, October 5, 1992 The Observer page 5 
UN resolves to seize Iraqi assets 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­After scrapping most of Iraq's weapons and cutting off its in­ternational trade, the Security Council struck Friday at a key financial asset of Saddam Hus­sein, moving to seize $1 billion in oil money. 
The council's resolution seizes assets from Iraqi oil sales abroad, most of them held in the United States, to compensate victims of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait and pay for 
U.N. weapons inspections and humanitarian aid to dissident Kurds and Shiites. 
It is the first time the United Nations had seized a nation's money. 
A top Iraqi envoy, Foreign Minister Mohammed Al-Sahaf, had traveled to U.N. headquar­ters to try to stop the action. He met earlier Friday with Third World members of the Security Council in a last-ditch attempt to head off the seizure. 
His efforts failed. Fourteen of the 15 council members sup­ported the resolution. China abstained, as it has in several council measures against Iraq. 
Al-Sahaf had proposed an alternative source for the com­pensation of victims and fmanc­ing U.N. operations: allowing Iraq to break a U.N.-ordered trade embargo and sell $4 bil­lion in oil. 
The council earlier had tried to get Iraq to pay for the pro­gram through a one-time sale of $1.6 billion in oil, under strict 
U.N. supervision. But' Iraq refused to accept the Security Council's terms for the sale. 
"The resolution adopted by the Security Council today is a reasonable and proportionate response to Iraq's intransi­gence," said Ambassador Ed­ward Perkins of the United States, which led the drive to seize Iraq's assets. 
China's ambassador, Li Daoyu, said the action was unnecessary and violated Iraq's sovereignty. 

•
Glasses in 1-3 hours...EVERYDAY! 

• 
Best prices...EVERYDAY! 

•
Best selection...over 1500 frame styles (including designer eyewear) 

•
Ourown glass and plastic laboratory to assure quality. 


aC&B. 
I
'Qt1ca
One. 

SOUTH BEND 4121 S. Michigan 
(U.S. 31 South) 
291-9200 
MISHAWAKA 5327 Grape Road 
( 1 /2 Mi. S. of University Park MaiD 
277-8121 

"When the Security Council plays the role of a court in such commercial dealings, this is out of its mandate fully," Al-Sahaf said. 
The resolution allows the council to confiscate proceeds from oil sales and money owed to Iraq for oil delivered before the Security Council banned trade with Baghdad on Aug. 6, 1990, four days after Iraq's in­vasion of Kuwait. 
At that time, Iraq's assets abroad -estimated to total $5 billion -were frozen but not seized. 
Oil was Iraq's main source of foreign cash. 
The United Nations will be able to confiscate up to $200 million from each country hold­ing Iraqi oil revenues, but will not be allowed to touch money claimed by Iraq's creditors. The confiscated accounts will be reimbursed when trade sanctions are lifted. 
Thousands protest Neo-Nazi violence 
SACHSENHAUSEN, Germany (AP)-'-Thousands of people gathered at the site of a Nazi concentration camp Sunday to protest anti-Semitic and anti­foreigner attacks across Germany. 
The denwnstration at Sach" senhausen, just n(}rth of Berlin, was the first time Germans rallied at a former concentration camp to call for an end to current rightist troubles. 
The symbolism of the site was heightened by the torching last month of a barrackS> there housing an exhibit on the camp's Jewish victims. 
''People today hear daily news about attacks on asylum­seekers," Robert Guttmann, the deputy chairman of the Central Council of Jews in Germany, told the demonstra~ tors. "People hear about them with less interest than they have for soccer results." 
Police said some 5,000 peo­ple, most of them Germans, took part in the rally sponsored by Jewish leaders, state government officials, human rights groups and others. Some held German and Israeli flags tied together. 
"I think it's important for Americans to know that not all Germans agree with what's taking place in Germany now," said 40-year-old Sonja Jura, one of the demonstrators. 
While the thugs have been cheered on in some places, many Germans have deplored the xenophobic attacks. About 25,000 protesters demon­strated in Frankfurt, Nurem­berg and Berlin Saturday in support of foreign refugees. 
Bad weather hampers Yugoslavian air lifts 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -More humanitar­ian flights arrived in Sarajevo on Sunday, but rainy weather hampered the aid effort to help people in the shattered capital survive the coming harsh win­ter. 
Relief officials fear the harsh Bosnian winter could claim hundreds of thousands of lives unless there are adequate sup­plies of food and fuel to feed residents of the besieged city. 
Power cuts have frequently left about 80 percent of Sara­jevo without electricity. People run to line up at water trucks, and on Sunday many put out pails to catch rainwater run­ning off the roofs. 
Warehouses in the city are empty, the only working bakery is producing only enough bread 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program 
Ill 

JERUSALEM MEXICO CITY AND SANTIAGO, CHILE 
SPRING SEMESTER 1993 APPLICATIONS DUE OCTOBER 15, 1992 
For more information please contact 
Dr. Claudia Kselman 
Assistant Director 

International Study Programs 
420 Main Building 
239-5882 
····'·'·''·':':--':'•'·'·:'"·•••:_ .·· 

to supply the military and hospitals, and a lack of fuel is hampering distribution. 
"I have nothing," said Mark Vachon, a U.N. refugee coordi­nator in Sarajevo. "I can't keep stocks in the warehouse, I would be shot dead. People are hungry." 
Sarajevo has been relatively quiet in recent days, but fight­ing flared in several towns in northern Bosnia on Sunday 
More than 14,000 people have been killed since Bosnian Serbs rebelled against a vote in February by majority Muslims and Croats to secede from Yu­goslavia. Serbs have seized about two-thirds of Bosnian territory. 
Almost daily reports of Serb air raids have led Western allies to urge the United Nations to impose a "no-fly" zone over Bosnia. President Bush on Fri­day promised to enforce it mili­tarily if necessary. 
But the commander of the Bosnian Serbs' air force, Maj.­Gen..'Zivomir Ninkovic, said Saturday he would never accept such a ban. 
The Serbs have about 40 air­craft the Yugoslav army left behind when it withdrew from Bosnia earlier this year. The republic's Muslim-led defense forces have no aircraft. 
ftAmerican HeartV Association 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
I ~;;, 
PF' 

SUMMER ENGINEERING FOREIGN STUDY 
. 
Ill 

LONDON, ENGLAND 
INFORMATION MEETING: Wednesday, October 7, 1992 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 7:00p.m. 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 

---~-----~------------­
r------­
-

page o 1ne uoserver IVIUIIUay, UL;tUUel O, I ::1::u: 
ELECTION '92 
,._y.4AIT:J

L-------------------------------------------------------~~~·~~~~~~*~~
ELECTION BRIEFS 
Debates scheduled 
•WASHINGTON -Aides to Bush and Clinton announced plans Saturday for three presidential debates beginning next Sunday in St. Louis, and said inde­pendent candidate Ross Perot would be invited to participate. Perot will be there, his spokesman said. The an­nouncement, capping 3 days of nego­tiations, set a compressed, 9-day time­table for the three presidential encounters and a vice presidential de­bate. Each will be 90 minutes long, take place before live audiences and be open to all subjects. The debates will be Oct. 11 in St. Louis, Oct. 15 in Richmond, Va., and Oct. 19 in East Lansing, Mich. 
Clinton endorses pact 
•RALEIGH, N.C. -Democrat Bill Clinton on Sunday endorsed the controversial free-trade treaty with Mexico, but said he would not sign it unless additional steps were taken to protect American workers. "If it is done right, it will create jobs in the United States and in Mexico," the Arkansas governor said in an address at North Carolina State University. "We must always remember why we're doing it­to help the working men and women of America." The announcement ended weeks of speculation over how the Democratic nominee would land on the trade pact. 
Registration records 
•WASHINGTON-So much for the year of voter turn-off. Record numbers of new voters are registering in some regions as get-out-the-vote drives sprout up everywhere from body lotion boutiques to music stores to soup kitchens. Missouri, for example, expects to add 300,000 voters to its rolls for a record registration by Election Day. "They're signing up voters everywhere -at Wal-Marts and malls and nursing homes and day care centers," said Frank Ybarra, a spokesman for the Missouri secretary of state's office. 
lJi'coming Events 
TUESDAY. OCTOBER 6 JESSICA NEVWIRm, J.D. 

President, Equality Now; former Chair, Women and Human Rights Task Force, Amnesty International-USA 

•EQUAUTY NOW!: HUMAN RIGHTS AS IF WOMEN MATIERFJ)• 4:15p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8 
DR. RON PAGNUCCO 
V~ Faculty Fellow, 
'Ik Kroc IDstituCe 

•THE FRACTURE OF GOOD ORDER: EXPLAINING THE USE OF NONVIOLENT ACI'ION BY AMERICAN PEACE GROUPS• U:lS p.m. Conference Room 103 The Hesburgb Cmtn-
Everyone Welcome 

111111 
INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAl PEACE STUDIES 
l__ UN/VERSrrY OF NOfRE DAME 
Bush has more left to spend than Clinton 
WASHINGTON (AP) -President Bush has as much as $20 million more than Bill Clinton to spend in the campaign's fi­nal month and plans to use his carefully hoarded funds to bankroll an unprecedented month-long media blitz. 
Clinton's campaign insists it still has plenty of reserve cash for a final volley of its own -and so does Ross Perot, who is unbound by any legal limits on campaign spending. 
An Associated Press review of campaign spending shows that Bush began October with about $49 million left of the $65.5 million the Republicans are allowed to spend on the fall election. Clinton, meanwhile, had between $27 million and $32 million left. 
The difference is explained by three factors: 
Professors: Bush campaign religious strategy backfired 
By DAVID KINNEY News Editor 
The Bush campaign's religious strat­egy has backfired, and both campaigns are backing away from the use of reli­gion to win votes this fall, according to several Notre Dame professors. 
"Bush has shamefully and shamelessly tried to use religion to try to win votes," said Father Richard McBrien, theology professor. But "they are aware of the fact that the religion button no longer works." 
McBrien said the Republican conven­tion in Houston alienated two groups Bush cannot win the election without: moderate republicans, who are con­cerned about jobs, health care and edu­cation, and Reagan democrats, who are patriotic, religious and generally intoler-

ONLY YOU CAN PREVENT FOREST FIRES. 

!;TONIGHT! 
" 
-
z 
A 
-

·~~~ 
11:30 PM 
Come in and listen to the album. 
12:00 'til1:30 
ON SALE!!! 
CD 
1f\\: 

i ({: 
Edison Rd. 

00 
~ 
0 
9(} 

-Clinton by law had to begin spending his legally limited fall campaign money a month earlier than Bush, since the Democrat received his party's nomination in mid-July and the GOP convention wasn't until mid-August. 
-Clinton's strategy called for spending more money early on to build a high profile -one that helped him grab the lead he now holds. 
-Bush's strategy called for husbanding campaign resources for a $30 million advertising blitz in the final month. 
The Clinton campaign says it's spending is right on schedule. Aides said the Democrat prepaid some of October's media expenses and also will benefit from an unprecedented Democratic Party get-out-the-vote drive and millions of dollars in generic vote-Democrat ads. 
ant on racial issues. 
Reagan was able to attract democratic voters with patriotism, anti-communism, and his position against abortion and for school prayer, but Bush no longer has the Cold War in his favor, said Professor David Leege ·of the government de­partment. 
Bush's attempts to win those same voters with a family values message failed because of the effects of the economic downturn. Leege said these voters are asking "Is it right to vote for him just because he has the right opin­ion on abortion and social issues, but is the economy important, also?" 
Clinton came to Notre Dame to reach out to the Reagan democrats, many of whom are Catholic, and he has suc­ceeded in pulling them back, according to Leege. 
Moderates saw the family values issue 
"I don't think they'll be running out of money over there. We'll just have a little more to spend down the stretch," said Charles Black, a senior adviser to Bush's campaign. 
Spreading a legally limited bankroll over the fall election campaign is an inexact science that historically has caused campaign strategists to pull at their hair, especially in the crucial final days. 
"When you start there's always a debate and infighting over how much you spend early on and how much you save until the last weekend. And in the end, you always wish you had more," said Leslie Dach, a senior aide to Democrat Michael Dukakis' failed 1988 bid for the White House. 
as negative, judgmental and parochial, according to Leege. Convention speakers Phyllis Schlafly, Pat Robertson and Patrick Buchanan also served to alienate moderates concerned with liberty and rights by telling people how they should live, according to McBrien. 
The Bush campaign is no longer using 
· the religion issue in a heavy-handed manner, and is even drawing away from the issue entirely, he said. O'Brien said that Bush and Quayle cannot champion their stand on the abortion issue either. "The pro-life people have let Bush and Quayle get away with waffling on it." He said the Bush campaign is afraid of losing re­publican women on this issue. 
But democrats have failed to take ad­vantage, so the issue has become unimportant in the fall election. 
(Midnight -1 :30 only!) 
!~~~"!~ 
1631 Edison I (219) 277-8338 
Viewpoint 
Monday, October 5, 1992 
The Observer 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor ...•....•............. David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor ......••.......... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ..•... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor .••.....•.... Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ... Anna Marie Tabor Controller .....................•.. David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Dear Editor: 
Recently, several letters with regards to Governor Clinton have been submitted to The Observer. Readers were able to choose between reading about how his " ... past insults war veterans," about how he is '"manipulating' catholicism," and about how he "isn't all he's wrapped up to be." 
I must admit these letters were very interesting-it is good to hear a different point of view. However, I must also admit that I am getting a little bit tired of all the "Clinton­bashing" that is taking place through this newspaper. 
I realize that there are many 
· people out there who are still uncertain about whom to vote for in November. There are also many first-time voters who want to be counted but don't know which path to take. I am writing this letter with these people in mind. First, I urge you all to look at and consider Governor Clinton with an open mind. You cannot always believe what you hear or read. Sometimes you have to find answers for yourself. I recommend that you get in touch with the College 
OOONESBURY 
RAY.' I OION'T KNOW YOU 
W£R&HER&! 
~lri'.\.\.~>1'Al 
Democrats here at Notre Dame 
if you have any questions or 
doubts. 
Although the opinions 
expressed in this letter are 
solely my own, I am almost 

positive that any member of 
this group would be more than 
willing to talk with you and help 
you in any way possible. 
If you are unclear about Gov­
ernor Clinton's stand on any is­
sue, position papers are easy to 
obtain. I will get them for you 
myself. All you need to do is ask 
me! 
In addition, I also advise you 
to examine the Republican and 
Independent candidates. Look 
at what has been accomplished. 
Look at what still needs to be 
done. Evaluate. 
I believe that American needs 
a change! 
To those of you who are 
uncertain and/or first-time vot­
ers, please help to make that .change. 

I ask you to dig deep below 
the surface! Ask questions! Al­
ways be skeptical! Do not be 
passive! 
Camille Terhune Badin Hall 
Oct. 1, 1992 
• 

NO's 'heritage' is not enough 
Dear Editor: renouncing its Catholic princi­oppose policies which would 
Recently, the Notre Dame ples on the one hand, and implement Church teaching 
alumni received a mailing from smothering beneath stultifying with regard to other matters. 
the University which solicited tradition on the other, the Uni­This sort of even-handedness 
comments for the "Colloquy for versity has-recently, at least­may be enticing to the 
the Year 2000." The same chosen both. intellectually fashion-conscious, 
booklet contained a quote from The "new and improved" but it is as reasonable as 
a member of the administration Notre Dame sponsors a Solomon's suggestion that the 
stating that Notre Dame heretical film (The Last two women split the baby-it is 
regards itself as "the place Temptation) on campus, while an option that is acceptable 
where the Church does its forbidding the students from only if one ignores the child. 
thinking." circulating petitions and various There is no more egregious an 
The fact that this notion other exercises of "free ex­example of "Aside-from-that­
infects many in the ad­pression" without official ap­Mrs.-Lincoln, how-did-you-like­
ministration comes as no sur­proval from the Dome. Co-ed the-play?" reasoning. 
prise to most students and re­housing is perceived as a threat Catholicism and intellectual­
cent alumni. Contrary to popu­to the University's Catholic ism are not irreconcilable. To 
lar belief in the administration, character; doctrinal improvisa­the extent that the administra­
the Church outside South Bend tion is not. tion believes that they are, 
is not some mindless automaton The list goes on, but most dis­however, they would do well to 
which requires Notre Dame tressing is the University's re­re-evaluate which of these two 
software to operate. cent conduct regarding abor­masters they plan to follow. 
Notre Dame does not think for tion. It is inconceivable that one We often hear of the 
the Church; it thinks about the of the most intractable foes of University's "Catholic heritage." 
Church. The distinction is im­the right-to-life movement That heritage is not enough. 
portant, for the first is neces­could be recognized by Notre Notre Dame would have a 
sarily Catholic and the second is Dame as "an outstanding Catholic heritage even if it were 
not. American Catholic" when the to become a Buddhist school 
The administration has had second Vatican Council deemed tomorrow. 
the difficult task of molding a abortion to be an "unspeakable No Catholic heritage, no small, humble, all-male Catholic crime." matter how illustrious, can . College into a larger, No doubt the administration substitute for Catholic princi­
prestigious, co-ed, Catholic countenanced this endorsement ples in the present. 
University. by observing that those in James Bohan 
Presented with the choice government who support the Harrisburg, PA 
between the ignominy of Church's position on abortion Oct. 1, 1992 

I J(JST Htl,Ht:e.' NO,THANI<5. ('AM80Vfl< 77115 MIJST8tSORTCF FORTH~ A FANTA5Y(f)M8 7l<IJI3 
GAMe. I rot<~ !If, 81XJPGI~'! 6(JTTA u;AVIJ 
500N... I 

'Panic askew in the hearts of the disenchanted always found ferver with the impassioned.' 
S. Patrik Hewson 

Lost in the rain in Juarez? submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 


·-~------------~ -~---·-'-,-.,............-~~---~--~-­
--------~~---~·-·­

Viewpoint
page 8 Monday, October 5, 1992 
Abortion issue 'depersonalizes' human life 
Magic's rebound too much for NBA 
In Planned Parenthood ~ 
Casey, this year, the Supreme 
Court upheld four marginal re­
strictions on Pennsylvania 
abortion procedure while strik­
ing down a requirement that a 
married woman inform her 
husband before she has an 
abortion. 
More important, the 5-4 majority explicitly reaffirmed Roe v. Wade, the 1973 abortion ruling. That 5-4 margin has led some pro-life advocates to claim that "we are only one vote away from overruling Roe 
v. Wade." That is not true. 
The four dissenters in Casey did say, in Chief Justice Rehnquist's words, "that Roe was wrongly decided and that it can and should be overruled." However, when those dissenters (Rehnquist, White, Scalia, Thomas) say they want to "overrule" Roe, they mean they want to turn the issue back to the states to let them decide whether to allow or forbid abortion. 
Such a states' rights solution would confirm, rather than overturn, the bedrock holding of Roe, that the unborn child is a nonperson who has no constitutional rights and who can therefore be legally killed at the discretion of others. 
The Roe Court held that, whether or not the unborn child is a human being, he is a nonperson. The ruling is therefore the same in effect as 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Charles E. Rice 
Right or Wrong? 

a frank holding that an ac­knowledged human being is a nonperson. 
The court in Roe indicated that if the unborn child is a person, the states would be constitutionally obliged to protect his or her life and could not allow abortion in any case. 
In Casey opinion, Justice John Paul Stevens explained this basic holding of Roe: 
The Court in Roe carefully considered, and rejected, the State's argument "that the fetus is 'a person'. within the lan­guage and meaning of the Fourteenth Amend­ment."...After analyzing the usage of "person" in the Consti­tution, the Court concluded that that word "has application only postnatally."... Accordingly, an abortion is not "the termination of life entitled to Fourteenth Amendment protection." ... From this ho 
dissent,...indeed, no member of the Court has ever questioned this fundamental proposition. Thus, as a matter of federal constitutional law, a developing organism that is n9t yet a "person" does not have what is sometimes described as a "right to life." This has been and, by the court's holding today, remains a fundamental premise of our constitutional law governing reproductive autonomy. 
In his opinion in Webster v. Reproductive Health Services, in 1989, Justice Stevens stressed that "(e)ven the dis­senters in Roe implicitly en­dorsed that "holding" of non­personhood "by arguing that state legislatures should decide whether to prohibit or to autho­rize abortions ... By characteriz­ing the basic question as a 'political issue,' ... Justice Scalia likewise implicitly accepts this holding." 492 U.S. at 568, n.13. 
When the Casey dissenters 

tion, they confirm the nonper­sonhood of the unborn child. If an innocent human being is subject to execution at the deci­sion of another whenever the legislature so decrees, he is a nonperson with no constitu­tional right to live. 
It is a mistake to see the Supreme Court as narrowly divided, with four Justices striving to uphold the constitu­tional right to life. 
Justice Rehnquist's bottom line is that, "A woman's interest in having an abortion is a form of liberty protected by the Due Process Clause, but States may regulate abortion procedures in ways rationally related to a legitimate state interest." Justice Scalia's bottom line is that: 
The states may, if they wish, permit abortion-on-demand, but the Constitution does not require them to do so. The permissibility of abortion, and the limitations upon it, are to be 
ant 

questions in our democracy: by citizens trying to persuade one another and then voting. As the Court acknowledges, "where reasonable people disagree the government can adopt one position or the other." 
In any civilized society in which personhood in the condi­tion for possessing rights, there is a necessary correspondence between humanity and personhood. 

The depersonalization of innocent human beings was the weapon an earlier Supreme Court used against the slaves in the 1857 Dred Scott case. And it was used to provide legal justification for the Nazi oppression of the Jews. 
Our Supreme Court is not narrowly divided on the basic issue of abortion. Instead, it is unanimous in its endorsement of the proposition that the law can validly depersonalize innocent human beings so as to subject them to execution at the discretion of others. 
On the contrary, a coherent legal response to permissive abortion would require a federal, state or constitutional amendment specifying that the unborn child is a person whose life is entitled to constitutional protection without exception. 
Charles E. Rice is a professor in the Notre Dame Law School. His column appears every other Monday. 
Dear Editor: 
I couldn't help but notice the irony in the article about Father Hesburgh (The Observer, Sept. 30). Father Hesburgh is on a council which will attempt to raise money for the National Association of People with AIDS. 
Father Hesburgh says that people with AIDS have been stomped on and that "a stand needs to be made and I am will­ing to assist." I commend him on his beliefs, but I also accuse him of being a hypocrite. 
How can he say he is willing to make a stand when the Uni­versity he is president emeritus of can claim no true AIDS policy except for a paragraph in Du­Lac which tells us, as unmar-
Dear Editor: 
On behalf of Lyons Hall, I would like to thank the Notre Dame community for its sup­port of our recent charity volley ball tournament. 
This year's event took place Sunday, Sept. 27 and raised over $500 to be donated to the American Heart Association in memory of former Lyons Hall resident, Karen Whitman. 
Many people and organiza­tions worked together to make this year's tournament a suc­cess. 
Special thanks go out to the local Notre Dame area mer­chants who donated prizes, Dennis McDonald for providing DJ services, Alumni, Keenan, Stanford, Morrissey, and Fisher Halls for providing nets, and ried students, not to engage in sexual activity. This does not effectively serve the students. 
What the students need is for the University to realize that while Catholic teaching is im­portant, keeping people alive takes precedence over this idea. 
The University must fulfill its "in loco parentis" role by doing more than saying "No!" It must attempt to educate and protect the students. 
This way those students who do not engage in sexual activity can learn, and those students who do can at least do so safely. It is the least any good parent would do. 
Miguel Perez Fisher Hall Sept. 30, 1992 
Student Activities, for all their assistance. 
Most importantly, though, I would like to thank all the 
teams  who  showed up on  
Sunday  to  play  in  the  
tournament.  

Many positive changes were implemented in this year's event, and through an entire dorm effort Lyons Hall was able to raise money for a very de­serving organization. 
We are already looking forward to next year and sincerely appreciate and thank all those who supported the 1992 Lyons Hall Charity Volleyball Tournament. 
Wendy Holthaus 1992 Tournament Chairper­son Sept. 30, 1992 
ND must teach more about sex than just 'No!' 
Lyons Hall appreciates support for charity tournament 
Dear Editor: 
It is my personal opinion that Magic Johnson does not belong back in the NBA. Prior to his contraction of AIDS, he was a . hero to millions of people, adults as well as children, for his basketball abilities and buoyant personality; few could find fault with this embodiment of the art of basketball. But then he got AIDS, and things changed. 
He retired a year ago, and he joined the AIDS commission. This was courageous and a cor­rect thing to do, devoting his life to halting the spread of AIDS. He showed people, myself included, that life doesn't end after the contraction of the HIV disease. 
Soon after, he joined the Olympic squad, and he had a ball. It warmed everyone's heart to see this fallen cham-
Dear Editor, 
Student Government, in an effort to evaluate student pro­gramming on campus, has formed a committee to review the Sophomore Literary Festi­val, a long standing tradition at Notre Dame. 
The committee is appealing to pion achieve one last athletic feat before AIDS ultimately takes his life. 

The message he conveyed in Barcelona was that one can still enjoy life after AIDS. This man, heroic for his basketball abilities and buoyancy, was now a true hero, bringing life to many who were suffering as a result of AIDS. 
What Magic does not seem to realize, though, is that enough is enough. His return to the NBA is going one step too far into his message that life doesn't end. What he is saying now is that life goes on as usual when you get AIDS. This is simply not true. 
As a celebrity, he is always under the scrutiny of the public. Children learn by his actions on and off the court. What Johnson is unknowingly telling these naive children by returning is 
all students, faculty, and staff who have been involved with the Festival in the past, as an organizer, participant, or guest, to give us your impressions of the Festival. 
Thank you in advance for your assistance in helping to improve student programming. 
that it's okay to get AIDS, 
because it hasn't changed his 
life at all. 
Obviously, this is not true. But 

do the children know that? All 
they see is a man who retired 
for a reason they don't 
understand returning better 
and more inspired than ever. 
All the fear Johnson instilled 

into these children through his 
past year's work is erased every 
time Johnson makes a no look 
bounce pass through Drexler's 
legs to a soaring James Worthy 
for a dunk. 
My image of Johnson as a 

hero has been crushed. The children's is being fortified. . Johnson does not belong in the 
NBA. 
Dominick Capozzola Zahm Hall Oct. 1, 1992 

All comments can be directed to us during the next two weeks. 
Catherine Danahy -Committee Chairperson Tim Callahan Joe Huston Kathy Macjena Pat Smyth 

----~---------------------------~~~-~-.C&P....~---------~~--~--------------------~--.----------~------------~~~~~~---------~~--~~----~~ 
I 
I 
I 
.,. I I I j
Accent 1 
I I 
Monday, October 5, 1992 page 9 

I 
t 
I 
I 
I
ea 
l I 
1 
BY WILLIAM ROSEMANN "helper of all those in distress, Accent Writer defender of the weak and op­pressed, strongest of all men, invincible, handsome as a god, Look! Up in the sky! It's a noble and gentle-in short, a bird, it's a plane, it's ... a coffin? man far superior to any other Yes, the rumors are true. Su­human being ... the ultimate 
perman will die in a battle on hero" according to "Comics: November 19 in "Superman Anatomy of a Mass Medium" by #75." DC Comics, home to fa­Reinhold Reitgerger and Wolf­mous heroes such as Batman, gang Fuchs. Wonderwoman, and the Flash. M. Thomas Inge, in "Comics 
is staging a war of epic propor­as Culture," states that through tions which will claim the life of his thousands of appearances in an American legend. print, television, and film, Su­
The last son of Krypton will perman has "captured the be killed in hand-to-hand American imagination and be­combat with the fearsome come our first twentieth century 
Doomsday, a monstrous folk hero, a perfect 
annihilator with bone-spiked mythological figure for an age fists who "will emerge from of technology." somewhere in America and just Because of his popularity, re­start walking towards sponse to Superman's death has 

Metropolis," according to Mike exhibited what Kowal called "a 
Carlin, editor of the Superman high degree of great shock." DC ing out its flagship character "readers are sure he'll be obituary for the fallen hero. 
titles. Comics has already received 
not only for economic rewards, back-cloned is a popular Following this special issueThe death will not be mean­hundreds of protest letters. 
but also for "all the different guess. They {DC Comics) are not will be an eight-part story lineingless, Carlin assured fans; "he Notre Dame senior Laura story ideas this could spark." going to cancel four titles a entitled "Funeral for a Friend,"is going to die saving as many Puente summed up public reac­
"We feel that Superman has month." in which, "The DC Universepeople on Earth and in tion: "It's like killing Mickey been taken for granted for some Martha Thomases, a DC goes into mourning. Superman's Metropolis as he can-which is Mouse-they can't kill him." Re­time," explained Carlin. "We Comics Spokeswoman, offered a vital signs appear completelywhat he's all about." actions from comic book collec­wanted to do a story that proves more pessimistic view. "I don't gone and he is pronouncedWhy is DC killing its most tors have ranged from blood­what it would be like to not know the schedule through all dead. All of DC's hero_es wear
popular character? John thirsty glee to sorrow. Chris 
have a Superman-a cavalry." eternity, but I know it through black arm bands and prepareKowal, owner of All Star Comics Hupf, Notre Dame freshman Come November, Kowal said March, and there's no Super-for life after Superman"of Mishawaka. explained and comic book collector, said 
heroes may look into the mirror man." ' according to "Coming Comics." 
"obviously DC wants more of "It's about time; he's pretty 
and think. "if Superman can Carlin maintained DC's Will mild-mannered Clark
the action -people who don't boring. I want to see him die." 
die, I could go anytime." Kowal tightlipped policy concerning Kent ever again utter "Up! Up!
normally buy comics will Fellow classmate and 
suggested that villains cackling the finality of the death, saying, And Away!"? How will Lex
purchase this issue." Kowal collector Ken Castellano, 
over the newly created power "You never know-death is final Luthor, Jimmy Olsen, and Loisbelieves the super slaying will hearing of the death. wondered: vacuum may embark on crime for Earthlings-but we don't Lane, Superman's new fiancee,"be a successful move for DC" "What are we telling our young sprees of mass destruction. really know what death means handle this tragedy? Can deathand is anticipating high reader readers? To think of killing him Children will look to the sky, for a Kryptonian." stop one who is "faster than a
interest. in the 50's would have been searching for that familiar flash DC is prepared to send the speeding bullet, more powerful
Kowal explained that this unthinkable-are our morals 
of red and blue, and wonder symbol of "truth, justice, and than a locomotive, and able todeath is attracting world wide changing?" 
who will save the day. The the American way" out with a leap tall buildings in a singleattention because Superman is Carlin defended DC Comics' characters of the DC Universe bang. "Superman #75," written bound"?
not a disposable supporting motivation for the controversial will have to cope with the fact and penciled by Dan Jurgens. Those who wish to find outcharacter. but rather, "one of killing; "The cynics of the world that their omnipotent guardian will hit newsstands as a pre­the answers to these questions,the top five representatives of will say that we're just doing it 
is suddenly gone. bagged Collector's Edition, and own a chunk of Americana, American culture." to sell comics. But that's not The never-ending battle, how­including a computer enhanced should watch newsstands inSince his conception 54 years the main reason he's being ever. may not be over. Following cover, a fold out poster of his November to discover if theago, the creation of Jerry Siegal killed off." 
the traditions of the genre, funeral, a commemorative Man of Steel will turn into theand Joe Shuster has become Kowal agreed that DC is wip-Kowal pointed out that, stamp, and the Daily Planet's Man of Rust. 
Multicultural Festival celebrates diversity 
_..,;~ro... 

BY GERALDINE HAMILTON to "Experiences Tuesday and collar workers. 
Assistant Accent Editor in Kenya." Thursday from "The education of people in R o s e m a r y 4:30 to 6 p.m. in an informal setting," said Lanin Haughton is a the student is the second goal of the 
Notre Dame's annual featured speaker c e n t e r festival. "People tend to graspMulticultural Fall Festival, during one of the Ballroom. things better in a relaxed being celebrated October 4-9, is Fireside Chats. The grand atmosphere," she said. 
a celebration of diversity of Haughton is well finale of the The third goal is to get the en­
people on the Notre Dame/Saint known as an Multicultural tire Notre Dame/Saint Mary'sMary's campuses and across the author as well as Fall Festival will community together. "Students nation, stated Adele Lanin. for her work with be the Taste of and faculty should interact-getAssistant Director of Student the homeless. Nations. This to know each other outside the Activities. The title of her annual event classroom," said Lanin "We 
The Multicultural Fall Festival lecture on home-featuring an have had eight to 80 year olds is for "the benefit of the Notre lessness will be international mingle at the same event," she Dame, Saint Mary's and Michi­"Song in a sampling of said. 
ana communities," said Maria Strange Land." foods and enter-Santos summarized the Multi­Santos. a member of the Multi­Food and tainment has cultural Fall Festival's function cultural Fall Festival Executive culture from drawn 3000 best when she stated, "it is a Council. "Casual learning in a several different people in past chance for the Notre Dame, positive atmosphere about cul­Notre Dame i years, said Saint Mary's and Michiana tural diversity is the purpose," grou s will bP-TheObserverFilePhotosantos The communities learn more
to 

~ b r a t e dHawaiin dancing performed during last year's Multicultural Fall Festival. event ~ill take
she said. c e 1 about the things around them. 
The celebration commenced Monday thru Fri-Week-long festivities and lectures will mark this year's event. place at the It is a fun atmosphere to simply on Sunday with the Spiritual learn about people." 
day from 12 to 1 Friday from 4:30 to 6 p.m. Stepan Center 
...-:.. ­

Celebration, the aim of which p.m. on the Fieldhouse Mall. The festival's "Cultural Cafe" on Friday from 7:30 p.m. to 1 was to get different religious Some of the groups that will not will include performances by a.m. 
groups, such as Muslims. 
only share their unique culture, Puerto Rican story teller and There are three primary goals 
Correction:
together to share their faiths, but also give a taste of folklorist Carmen Alicia that Lanin and the ten students said Santos. 
traditional foods from that Morales, the Infancia American who make up the Multicultural Monday thru Friday Fireside culture are the Japan Club, the Song and Dance group and a Festival Executive Council hope 
An article regarding Holy Cross 
...

Chats will be held in the LaFor­Hawaiian Club and the Italian reggae band. to reach. The first is "to educate 
College in Friday's Observer
tune Student Center from 12 to 
Club. Also the African Dance people about cultures different 
should have read. "Father
1 p.m. Each day a different talk The Ballet Folklorica and the Troupe will perform and teach from their own." said Lanin. 
Sorin travelled from France
will be given by a professor or 
Asian-American Club, along dance steps from African The different cultures are not 
over 150 years ago.'' The
an expert in a particular field. 
with other Notre Dame groups dances. said Lanin. These only represented by different Observer regrets the error.
The topics being discussed 
will be performing on the performances will take place ethnic groups, but also groups range from "Aging in America" Fieldhouse Mall Monday thru such as the elderly and blue 
page 10 
Men's 
continued from page 14 
The Irish defense allowed only five shots on goal as sophomore goalkeeper Bert Bader registered his 15th ca­reer shutout, just seven short of the school record. 
"We've been concerned with our play in the penalty box," Berticelli explained. "Today we wanted to control the penalty box and not give them too many scoring opportunities and I think we did that." 
It was quite an improvement from Friday night's loss, but the question now is which Notre Dame team will show up Wednesday night against De­troit Mercy. 

--~~----~~~-~-----~~------­
The Observer Monday, October 5, 1992 

The Observer/Macy Hueckel 
Sophomore Tont Richardson (17) runs down a ball during Notre Dame's 4-0 win over Dayton Sunday. 
The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day classilieds is 3p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
LOST: LOST ON STEPHEN FIELDS  2 room efficiency . utilities paid  Need Penn St. Tix  HELP! HELP' HELP!  TUTORS NEEDED TOWN AND  
AFTER FOOTBALL PRACTICE.  $7 a day, 288-0955  Tony x 1786  NEED 2-3 BC GA'S.  COUNTRY COMMUNITY CENTER  
NOTICES  .SMALL CAMOFLAGE LEATHER WALLET WITH I. D., LICENSE, ECT.  Faculty or Graduate Student to  FOR SALE 2 Pitt GA's Best offer by  MARY 284-5114  NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY PROGRAM, GRADE 1-6, 400-5:30  
PLEASE RETURN I! KATH ANNE  share large home ND/UPM area  10/5 call Ted 513-492-5190.  In need of two BC GAs. I have $$.  MON. AND WED. OR TUES. AND  
ATIENTION  X4011  Deposit-Lease-References  Please call me at x3891.  THURS., STARTING OCT. 5,  
For more information and  277-4156  I NEED TWO BYU GA'S FOR TWO  PROGRAM DIRECTOR (teacher)  
assistance regarding the investigation of financing, business  WANTED  2 BR house. basement. garage,  CHICAGO INNER-CITY YOUTH. JON 232-0550  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  CONNIE EMMONS, 258-9973 OR 288-3366  
opportunities and work-at-home  stove, refrigerator. @ 1115 Vassar,  YOU HAVE WHAT  
opportunities, THE OBSERVER  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT­ NW near campus. $300/mo +  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  I WANT  LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes  
urges its readers to contact the  fisheries. Earn $5000+/month. Free  Utilities. Yr lease & deposit. Grad  I NEED 2 BC GA'S!!!  every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am  
Better Business Bureau of  transportation! Room & Board!  students (20K) preferred. 272-1265  call Dena x2191  AND WILL PAY FOR IT  Eastern Time. Train and jump the  
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  Over 8000 openings. No  same day. Modern equipment ant  
Suite 9, South Bend. IN 46637­ experience necessary. Male or  SECLUDED 4BR, 2BATH  IN DIRE NEED OF 2 GA'S FOR  Y E S, Y 0 U K N 0 W W H A T  training programs. Licensed  
4200: or call the BBB at 219-277­ Female. For employment program  COUNTRY HOME NEAR CAMPUS.  BYU..  I'M TALKING ABOUT  instructors. FFI call Skydive  
9121 or 800-439-5313  call Student Employment Services  4 MEN OR 4 WOMEN $210  CALL KPO AT x1943  Hastings (616) 948-2665.  
at 1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584.  MONTH PER PERSON. LEASE.  NEED YOUR GAs  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  DEPOSIT. 272-0806.  IN DIRE NEED OF 2 GA'S FOR  AND YOU NEED  2 Nice Bed N' Breakfast Rooms ­ 
Earn Free Spring Break Trips &  BYU ..  MY MONEY  Close to Campus. Call 272-0128  
TYPING  $2500 Selling Spring Break  CALL KPO AT x1943  
287-4082  Packages To Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica, Florida! Best Trips &  FOR SALE  IN DIRE NEED OF 2 GA'S FOR  CALL ME ANYTIME!!!! K Y L I E 234-9433  ''''''' Campus Musicians """'' There will be an informational  
--­ LILILILI Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll LILILILILI LONG ISLAND BUS  Prices! 1-800-678-6386.  CHEAP! FBI/US. SEIZED  BYU .. CALL KPO AT x1943  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  meeting for all those interested in performing on a campus CD Wed.  
Sign up this week, only $115 for  $$$$ FREE TRAVEL AND RESUME  89 MERCEDES ......... $200  Oct. 7 at 9:00 in the SUB office in  
round trip! Leaving Fri. evening,  EXPERIENCE!!  86 vw ··········· $ 50  Do you need BYU, BC or PSU  WANTED 3 GA's ND VS BYU  LaFortune. Fo Mo InFo call Ryan at  
10/16 and will be back Fri. night.  Individuals and Student  87 MERCEDES .......... $100  Student tix? Call Kerry x3619  10/24 CALL COLLECT 215-355­ x1249 or 239-7757  
10/23. LIMITED seating. Check  Organizations wanted to promote  65 MUSTANG ............ $50  7131 RON  
your mail for flyers. Anthony x1867  SPRING BREAK, call the nation's  Choose from thousands starting  HAVE 2 STANFORD GA'S. WANT  Let's go camping!  
leader. Inter-Campus Programs  $25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour  TO TRADE FOR 2 GA'S FOR  PITI TICKETS!!!  What-ev-er  
DRUMMER WANTED  1-800-327-6013.  Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright  OTHER HOME GAMES. CALL 284­ 
must have kit  #IN11KJC.  5052  FOR SALE  Loving Catholic family longing to  
willing to play rock, progressive, &  Childcare and light housekeeping  adopt. We're concerned about you  
TV show covers  needed in our Granger home 12-16  IBM COMPATIBLE SOFTWARE  CALL D. J. or scon@ 1246  at this difficult time. Let's help each  
willing to develop original  hours per week (on Tuesday and  $2 EACH.  2 air tickets to San Francisco  other. Gloria 818-248-4890  
must have the look we like  Thursday afternoons) for toddler  WANTED: COMPUTERS.  LV 10/17/92 return 10/24/92  I have 2 BYU, 50 yd line GA's!!  
must rock hard  and infant. Experience preferred.  1530 WESTERN AVE, SB.  400.00 for both 258 7935  I want to trade these for any  HEY HEY HEY HEY HEY HEY  
Call Joe X1654 or Jon X1730  references essential. top hourly  287-7550.  2 Penn St. GA's. Joe x1395  THERE ARE ONLY TWO HOURS  
wage. Contact Karen at 271-9322.  NEED 4 PENN ST. GA'S  PER WEEK OF QUALITY COLLEGE  
BIKE for$20  NICK X4284  $$NEED 1 Penn. St. ticket call Eric  RADIO IN SOUTH BEND. TUES. 12  
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP I!  STUDENTS or ORGANIZATIONS.  call 273-1932  at x4284 will pay good money$$  AM-2 AM NOCTURNE. Don't be  
BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday  Promote our Florida, Spring Break  NEED PENN STATE TIX-call Sam  a Barney, Listen to some sweet  
Pandora's Books 808 Howard  packages. Earn MONEY and FREE  TV FOR SALE 19 IN COLOR 50$  x4842  Have 2 BYU tix, need 2 BC tix. Will  tunes, and maybe even win a free  
3 blks. from campus 233-2342  trips. Organize SMALL or LARGE  swap. Call (201) 487-9000.  disc!  
groups. Call Campus marketing.  CALL 2723491  88.9 FM DONE.  
Typing 237-1949  800-423-5264  FREE LANCE WRITER NEEDS  NEED 4 BYU GA's  i need 2 penn state GA's  
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing  WORK I'LL WRITE A STORY ON  Call Dan at 233-4140  call lisa X 4845 leave a message  MARGE  
I would love to ride home with you  YOU FOR YOUR HOMETOWN  Leave message.  
$$$$$$$$$$$  to ST. LOUIS for Oct. Break.  PAPER. 2723491  I need PS.U. tix  Physician and Attorney wish to  
Bill x2187  Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call  Bob 3398  provide loving home for your child  
COMPETE  For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call  1-800-922-BEAR.  filled with hugs, kisses, laughter.  
WITH THE BEST  NEED TO GET TO HOUSTON,  Rita Delivery on Campus  Will trade one student ticket to BYU,  Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy  
TEXAS. or anywhere along the way  234-6524  BC, and Penn St. plus cash for 2  Collect (708) 655-3124.  
5TH ANNUAL  over October Break? We need a  BYU GAs. Call Pat at 271-2360.  
AT&T INVESTMENT  rider/driver to help drive rental car.  Old Gibson Les Paul Custom  WE FOUND HER!  
CHALLENGE  Must be at least 21yrs old to drive  electric guitar, 1969, black, $1000.  I NEED 1 BC GA,  WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  JILL'S NOW AT  
rental car. Costs will be relatively  277-9882  DAVE, x4506  GOOD PENN ST GA"s 2773097  "WE CARE HAIR"  
TAKE YOUR FICTIONAL $500,000  inexpensive.  CALL HER FOR A CUT AT 271­ 
BROKERAGE ACCOUNT AND MAKE MILLIONS=  Please call Jill. Carrie, or Allison at x4758 ASAP if interested'!'!  2 RT TIX SB -WASH DC FOR OCT BREAK $150@  PERSONAL  7674.  
CALL 273-2752  DITKA shot the "magic bullet" from  
JUST LIKE WALL STREET  EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our  SMC & ND 1993 SUMMER  the grassy knoll'  
circulars! ... Begin NOW! ... FREE  82 Pontiac for sale, 84000 miles.  Will pay top dollar for 2 or 3 football  PROGRAMS-London and Rome.  
REGISTRATION DEADLINE:  packet' SEYS, Dept. 100, Box  clean, runs well. am/fm stereo.  tickets for any of the following home  Travel in Ire.. Scot.. Eng .. France.  DOME-POVERTY  
OCTOBER 30, 1992 HURRY! DON'T DELAY  4000, Cordova. TN 38018-4000.  Asking $600, call 239-5683.  games, Oct. 24. Nov. 7, Nov. 14. Call collect -ask for Joe Murphy. 8  Ger.. Switz.. & Italy. Courses in Bus., Ed., Hist., Italian, Mus.,  ..  
I need a ride to R.I./Baston for fall  CHEAP TICKET r.t S.B to Norfolk  A.M. to 4:30P.M. 614-382-1104,  Nursing, and Soc. Meeting Oct. 5,  
1-800-545-1975 EXT. 12  break. Will share cost/driving.  Va. for fall break: $175/b.o x1983  7:30PM. to 11 PM  6:30 PM Carroll Hall (SMC). Slides,  Oh, What a Night!!  
AmyX4012  614-389-4303 weekdays.  students from 1992, teachers.  Happy Birthday Rory,  
$$$$$$$$$$$ ILOST & FOUND I  I BUY BYUs X2319 I AM A 21 YR. OLD COLLEGE STUDENT EMPLOYED BY  TICKETS NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX  Weekends 9 A.M. to 9P.M. 614-389­4303. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 PENN STATE GA's !!  pizza, etc. Info Call Prof. Black 284­4460 or 272-3726. ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial  From your bud at Cavanaugh!! SONIC YOUTH-tonight' I!  
STUDENT PAINTERS. I'VE BEEN  CALL.JOE OR JAY X1760  Betsy 273-1792 (leave message)  security, excellent education and  Get a ticket and a ride to Chicago  
Please return  PROMOTED TO EXEC. POSITION  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  wonderful future for your baby.  for only $20. Whaddya say? I'm  
the grey  AND NEED MANAGERS FOR  I NEED ND FOOTBALL  Please let us help you in this  leaving at 2:00 or 3:00. Call me and  
TC TENNIS  SUMMER EMPLOYMENT.  TICKETS.272-6306  NEED BC TICKETS IN BIG WAY!  difficult time. Confidential and legal.  leave a message. Ro at 273-0895.  
sweatshirt you  ELKHART, MICH. CITY, LAPORTE,  DEREK SCHNACK X1374  Medical expenses paid. Collect  
found by the Stepan  NILES, THREE  anytime. (818) 246-1763  OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES  
volleyball courts  RIVERS/SCHOOLCRAFT SALES  Please help!!! I'm in DESPERATE  @@@@@@@@@@@@@@  
last Thurs (9/24)  EXP PREFERRED. BUT NOT NESS.  need of Penn State GA's ..  JUDGEMENT DAY IS COMING!!!  
Erin #2331  MUST HAVE GREAT ADD AND  Call Ann 284-5241  HAVE  Attractive and physically well­ GET THE T-SHIRT!!!  
.>  WORK HARD. AVG. EARNINGS  HAVE  endowed Notre Dame student with  
DID YOU LOSE YOUR GLASSES?  8,000. CALL 1-800-543-3793 ASK  I HAVE  good personality needs a date for  Hey Niff  
pair of brown wire-rimmed glasses  FOR TOM SMITH. .  TRADE: 2 BYU GA'S FOR 2 BC  Oct. 10 SYR.  
found Wed. night in front of the  GA'S (715-359-0222)  A L 0 T  MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR  
Snite. Call Jim at x3411 to claim  Need ride to S. Jersey/PhiIa. area  I will provide transportation.  FREE HAIRCUTS. CALL COSIMO'S  
for Oct. break. Will pay $$1 Call  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  P I T T GAs P I T T GAs  beverages, and hours of fun  277-1875.  
Maureen @ 2862  PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston College  whoever answers this ad.  
- HELP!!! I am blind and need you  GAs or student tix. Call Jill @  Will sell CHEAP cause my  You can call me AI,  
to restore my vision!!!  x4758 or x4721.  friends cannot go on the  This is not a joke. I really need a  But don't call Allyson.  
LOST: One pair of tortoise shelled maroon glasses and case. Please  FOR RENT  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  BEST ROADTRIP EVER!!!!  date.  She's already got a date for the SYR on Oct. 1Oth  
call Mick at X1856 or heal my  Need GA tix for BYU will buy or  Call me Philip 287-9118  You can call me AI..  SORRY!  
affliction in 438 Stanford.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  trade for my GA PENN ST tix. Butch  at 283-2703.  Stop calling AL at 283-2703.  
219-291-7153  (209) 449-1800/439-6170.  @@@@@@@@@@@@@@  


Monday, October 5, 1992 The Observer page 11 
Belles falter at Wheaton College Tourney 
Miami wins battle of unbeatens (AP) -Any notion that the was the highest-scoring team Buffalo Bills were invincible at in the league, averaging 38 home and that a hot-weather points per game. team couldn't win at usually While Marino was leading frigid Rich Stadium were dis­the offense, completing 21 of pelled by the Miami Dolphins. 33 passes for 282 yards and It was relatively hot in touchdown strikes of 24 yards Buffalo on Sunday ­with the to Jackson, 5 yards to Tony temperature in the high 50s ­Paige and 9 yards to Bobby and so were the Dolphins. Humphrey, the defense got big The Dolphins, spurred by performances from Oliver, Louis Oliver's three intercep­John Offerdahl and Bryan Cox. tions, including one that he re­Oliver returned his three in­turned for an NFL record­terceptions for 170 yards, the tying 103 yards and a second-highest total in NFL touchdown, and Dan Marino's history. Offerdahl led a three scoring passes, one to rushing defense that held newcomer Keith Jackson, Thurman Thomas to 33 yards stunned the previously on 11 carries, and Cox, the unbeaten Bills 37-10. AFC player of the month for The victory left the Dolphins September, had two sacks. (4-0) as the only unbeaten In other NFL games Sunday, team in the AFC and put them it was Minnesota 21, Chicago into first place in the East, 20; Denver 20, Kansas City 19; ahead of the Bills (4-1). San Francisco 27, Los Angeles The Bills had entered the Rams 24; Phoenix 27, Wash­game with 17 straight hoine ington 24; Los Angeles Raiders victories over AFC East oppo­13, New York Giants 10; New nents and had beaten the Dol­Orleans 13, Detroit 7; Atlanta phins six consecutive times at 24, Green Bay 10; Indianapolis home since 1986. Buffalo also 24, Tampa Bay 14.  
Happy 20th, Miss Bear, to a women of great talent, wit, and sweetness! Love, Mom  
The Observer is looking for business and economic students to write a guest column for the --susiness Page. Ifinterested contact Business Editor Pancho Lozano at 239-7471  

By EILEEN MCGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
It was a disappointing week­end for the Saint Mary's volley­ball team as they did not ad­vance to the playoffs in the Wheaton College Tournament. 
The Belles were off to a slow start, losing to North Central 10-15, 1-15. Errors, as well as mediocre passes helped North Central easily defeat them. 
"The whole problem was that we had just come off a three­game win and we expected to do well," explained Karen Lor­ton. 
The Belles had lost to Wheaton two times prior to this loss, which encouraged the Belles to play more conserva­tively. However, coach Julie Schroeder-Biek believes Saint Mary's was definitely the better team. 
"Although they (North Cen­tral) got their hands on more halls, they were not the better all-around team. 
"They did a lot of tips and rolls, which requires a lot of movement. We were not pro­ducing the movement or the passes which are required to run an effective offense," Schroeder-Biek stated. 
The Belles produced better results against · Illinois Wesslyan, yet did not come out on top, falling 10-15, 15-10, 10­15. 
The Belles made costly er­rors. Illinois was able to get around the Saint Mary's block with Saint Mary's not adjusting quickly enough. 
"We are going to have to start putting in extra time in practice regarding the service errors as well as passing because they 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
cost us matches. We will have to review as well as drill tech­nique," Schroeder-Biek noted. 
All was not lost, however. The Belles quickly and easily defeated both Rockford and Albion Colleges in the consola­tion bracket. 
Against Rockford, whom the Belles had never met before, Saint Mary's came out on top, 15-0, 15-10. Against Albion, similar scores resulted as the Belles won, 15-5, 15-5. 
Karen Lorton lead the team in kills this weekend with 36; and Michelle Martino chipped in 49 assists as well as 36 digs. 
The Belles' next encounter will be against the University of Chicago on Tuesday. 
Irish Youth Hockey League is looking for ND students to coach or assist coaches during the upcoming hockey season. If interested, contact Scott Gosselin at 271-7414. 
The Aikido Club will be having open practices on Mondays and Wednesdays from 6-8 p.m. in Rockne 219. Everyone is welcome. 
Officials are needed for RecSports co-ree basketball. There will he a meeting on October 8 at 5:30 p.m. in the JACC Auditorium. 
RecSports is taking entries for campus badminton, men's and women's interhall volleyball and co-ree basketball. Entry deadline is October 7. 
ND/SMC women's lacrosse will meet today at 4:30 p.m. at the Saint Mary's Library green. Call Heather at 284-5103 if you have any questions. 
Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club practice times have changed. The club will now meet on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7:30p.m. in the Fencing Gym at Gate 4 of the JACC. If you have questions, call Tim Kalamaros at 277-6797. 
ND/SMC sailing team will hold a mandatory meeting on October 5 at 6:30 in the boathouse. All members must attend to have a serious discussion about the future of the race team. If you have questions, call Rudy Bryce at 283-4280. 
ND/SMC field hockey will have a mandatory practice today at Stepan at 3:30 p.m. 

[!]•[!] 
~ h '~
iHey Sop omore.l 
~ ~ 
~ •Do you want to be involved in the J ~ most exciting weekend of the ~ ~ year? ~ ~ ~ 
~Then Sign Up To Join The I
i ~  Sophomore JPW Committee  iI  
~  ~  
~ ~  • If interested, pick up an application at the LaFortune  ~ 1  
; Information Desk.I•Applications due by 4 p.m.  ; ~  
~  Friday, Oct. 9th in the Student  ~  
~  Activities Office (315 Lafortune).  ~  
LL:::;  

[!].[!] 
• 

--===~~=-­
1'\0Rffi~ CfnYfRa fOR~ lltt ~ R T S 
Wednesday, Oct. 14,8 p.m., O'LaughJln Auditorium 
The National Tnuring Production  Friday-Sunday, Nov. /3-15  
lfnonffl  Saint Mary's presents AN EVENING OF OPERA AND DANCE Tickets $6/$5 MOREA I! GALLERIES, Brinslcy Tyrrell,  
..  OR  sculpture: Lilian Tyrrell, tapestries; Oct. 9-Nov. 6. Admission free. COMIN(; ATTRACTIONS... ACDA Central Division Colkgiatc llonors Festival Choir, Oct. 31... The Statesmen,  
Tickets $14/$12  Nov. 6 ...The Ink Spots, Nov. 21.  
----------------------­ 

~--------------------------------~-----­
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's ---f"H------­box office. located in a· Laughlin Auditorium. Saint Ma;1's Colleg~Information and charge card orders: 219/284-4626. 
NOTRE DAI.~ E· INDIANA 
page 12 
Irish fall to 13th, Stanford jumps seven spots 
(AP) -A number of teams moved in this weeks Associated Press Top Twenty Five. 
Miami's three point win over Florida St. earned the Hurricanes double the first place votes received last week. 
The Washington Huskies secrued their place atop the poll with a win over Southern Cal. 
Notre Dame's 33-16 loss to Stanford dropped the Irish to the thirteenth spot, while the Cardinal jumped to eleven. 
Michigan, Tennesseee, And Texas A&M round out the top five, while Alabama, Penn. St., the Seminoles, Colorado and fMlfti:ir:iiil;~~ unbeaten Virginia round out the [~ijq~i.~f.~~ 
top ten.
It is Virginia's first appearence t··]@§!%1lm:!J:i;'~ii{'fil in the top ten since 1990. 
UCLA's loss to Arizona fJ dropped the Bruins out of the top half of the poll, down to number twenty, two spors ahead of Boston College which tied Maryland. 
Each team in the second ten of the poll have suffered at least 


The Observer Monday, October 5, 1992 
Stenstrom, Milburn shine in upset win 
By MARK MCGRATH Sports Writer 

"I don't want anyone to ex­plain this one (Stanford's win), Notre Dame did not lose, we beat them." 
Those were the sentiments of Bill Walsh after the 18th­ranked Cardinal of Stanford upset the sixth-ranked Fighting Irish. 
The Cardinal came to Notre Dame expecting one thing and they came away with that ex­pectation fulfilled. 
"We felt we could control Notre Dame," said Stanford safety John Lynch, "we felt they (Notre Dame) were right for the taking." 
Perhaps this optimism was based upon what Stanford did prior the week to the game. Walsh dragged out the tape from last year's Notre Dame­Tennessee contest in which the Vols came back from a 31-7 deficit to win 35-34. 
"We studied the Tennessee game where they just kept playing and playing, and we used that to motivate our­selves," commented Stanford quarterback Steve Stenstrom. 
Notre Dame opened the scor­ing quickly. After the opening kickoff. Irish linebacker Demetrius DuBose blitzed Stenstrom causing a fumble. Irish linebacker Devon McDon­ald had a shot at the ball but Stanford's guard Brian Cassidy recovered the ball for an Irish safety. 
"We played well in the first quarter," said DuBose, "but as the game progressed, the de­fense was just on the field too much. We just can't be forced to be on the field that much." 
This was certainly the case. In the first half, Notre Dame led in time of possession by :36 seconds but in the second half, Stanford ruled the clock, hold­ing the ball for 18:35 minutes, 
12:05 of that coming in the fourth quarter. 
All week prior to the game, Walsh maintained that Stanford did not have players the same caliber as Notre Dame, but a look at the final statistics tell a different story. 
Cardinal running back Glyn Milburn rushed 20 times for 119 yards and two touchdowns. Excluding Stenstrom who was sacked four times and lost 35 yards, three other Stanford players rushed 16 times for 73. These totals make for a 5.3 av­erage yards per carry. 
If you add this to Stenstrom's 

passing numbers 32 attempts 21 completions for 215 yards and zero interceptions, it seems that Walsh was playing the role of the pessimistic coach, much like Irish coach Lou Holtz. 
When questioned about his comments made earlier in the week about his players, Walsh declined to comment on how his players were inferior to those at Notre Dame. 
"Our play was scrappy and inspired," added Walsh. "We hung in there." 
The Irish defense played well, but being on the field for so much time and seeing the offense turn the ball over five times hurt the morale of the defense. 
"You can't win with five turnovers." said Holtz. "We were up 16-0 and every turnover was key. It seemed like every turnover was after a big play." 
The fmal statistics are almost identical for both teams, except for turnovers. Stanford capital­ized on every Irish miscue. 
"They just kept on working, kept executing," said Irish safety Jeff Burris. 
Holtz praised the Stanford of­fense. 
"Stanford played extremely well. I can't fault my players, they were very talented. Mil­burn is a great back and their quarterback showed a lot of courage." 
Stenstrom, despite practicing for the first time this week on Friday, played like Stanford needed in order to win. 
"He is a competitor," said DuBose. "He is a great quarter­back." 
Milburn had a Heismen-like day, receiving praise from his backfield mate. 
"Glyn is amazing. He takes a lot of pressure off me. I feel honored to have him in the backfield," Stenstrom said. 
In the end, an emotional Walsh tried the magnitude of the win. 
"Notre Dame is under tremendous pressure to win, and that is tough for them," said Walsh. "But I give our kids credit for hanging in there. We had guts. This is as big a win as I have ever had in my career. I am very proud of our team and the University." 
Walsh also had some words for the Irish faithful. 
"Notre Dame will bounce back, and so will Holtz. He is a good friend and a marvelous coach." 
The Irish faithful hope that Walsh's optimism is correct. 
one loss in the season, and only [~~ Mt 
eight unbeaten, untied teams remain in the standings. Californiajumped back into the 

standings at the #24 spot after~~~~~~~~~~
dropping out a week ago after losing to Purdue. Clemson and N.C. State tied for the final spot, two below twice beaten Florida, the only team in f~-"~£EI!~~ili±j§Lfu1~:;!1]
the poll with a losing record. 


for your information. • • evening programs from ... the CollegiaJe Office and College Fellow 
College of Arts and Letters 
The Observer/Jake Peters A host of Irish tacklers bring down Stanford fullback Ellery Roberts. 
How to Choose a Major: Options, Opinions and Opportunities 
Tuesday, October 6, 1992 
6:30-7:30 p.m., in the Hesburgh Library Lounge On Notre Dame and S.R.23 
Club 23 

Dean Harold Attridge, Associate Dean Dian Murray, College 
Now Club 23 Subs! 

Fellow Frank Bonello 
FREE Deli very 
234-4015 

What is Graduate Education?
Open 4 p.m. -2 a.m. 

And Is It For Me?
Call to find out what's going on TONIGHT 
Wednesday, October 7, 1992 Mon Call us! 
6:30-7:30 p.m., in the Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Vice President Nathan Hatch, dean of the Graduate School, 
Tues Sub Special -$2M 7" Subs 

assisted by Professors Chris Vanden Bossche, English; Jeanne 
Wed Call us! 

Day, psychology; and Kevin Christiano, sociology.
(Or save the quarter-you'll need it) Thu Go "Around the World" with us 
The Personal Statement: C ystallizing Your Voice
• Also This Week • 

'f1 .ursday, October 8, 1992 
Brian, Colin, and Vince 

6 30-7:30 p.m., in the Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Fri•Sat Live Music 

1 rofessor Thomas Werge, English This Week• Jazz Friction 
Monday, October 5, 1992  The Observer  
Irish  back finished 21-for-32 for 215 yards. "(Stenstrom) showed a lot of  Holtz said. "It seemed like every turnover was after a big play." The Cardinal, however, did  
continued from page 16  courage, even after all the beat­ings he took," Irish coach Lou  not convert the turnover into points, as the Notre Dame de­ 
Irish lead to 16-13. Stenstrom, who did not prac­tice this week until the. Cardinal arrived in Michigan City on Friday, kept his composure all afternoon despite taking a pounding from the Notre Dame defense. The junior quarter- Holtz said. After the score, Notre Dame again started to move the ball before turning it over. This time Bettis took a Mirer pass in the left flat and rumbled 26 yards to the Stanford 35, where George knocked the ball loose. "Every turnover was ke "  fense stopped the drive at their own 46, where linebacker An­thony Peterson buried Sten­strom on a third-and-three. But the defense was back on the field 56 seconds later, after the offense failed to pick up a first down. "We showed that we are a  
tired football team," Holtz ex­ 
plained. "When you are tired  
you don't make the plays. We  
were sluggish and have no ex­ 
cuses.  
"When you hit the fourth and  
fifth week of the season, you  
have to cut back, take less time  
with your team.  
"I violated that. We didn't  
practice any less this week. I  
should know better."  
Stanford then went 66 yards  
in eight plays against the tiring  
Irish defense. The drive was  
capped by  J.J.  Lasley who  
caught a Stenstrom pass at the  
16, broke Greg Lane's tackle at  
the two and scored to give the  
Cardinal a 20-16lead.  
Stanford's drive seemed to  
spark the Notre Dame offense,  
which marched 66 yards to the  
Stanford eight. But safety John  
Lynch dashed any comeback  
hopes, picking off a Mirer pass  
in the end zone.  
Lynch commented on the play  
following the game.  
"It was my job to watch the  
tight end on the play, but I saw  
that Mirer was locked on the  
reciever (Griggs), so I broke on Lasley after a second half touchdown.  
The Observer/David Hungeling Cardinal tailback Glyn Milburn slips through the Notre Dame defense.  the ball and ended up making the interception." "I think that was the turning point," Holtz stated. Lynch was all over the field  tion to the interception. "Lynch is a big hitter and the cornerstone of our defense," Walsh commented. After Lynch returned Mirer's 


,.-:.__-----------------------~ for the Cardinal, finishing the 
errant throw to the Stanford 24, game with nine tackles in addi­the Cardinal went 56 yards to 
Heavenly 

HORSEBACK RIDING 
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 11
Dinner Deal 

$12.00 per person Register and pay in advance a RecSports in the JACC 
No experience necessary Call RecSports at 239-6100 for more details 
NOTRE DAME ALUMNI, SUBWAY ALUMNI and FRIENDS of the GREATEST UNIVERSITY in the NATION!!! 
Welcome to... NOTRE DAME-PITT PEP RALLY
Every Sunday to Wednesday 

7:00 p.m. to Midnight 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9,1992 Sheraton Hotel at Station Square downtown Pittsburgh, PA 
Spaghetti 6 Tomato Sauce 
$2.99 

Assessment:
per person 

$5.00 per adult If thou has not tasted our delicious Italian offerings, here's a 
$3.00 per student temptation: our very own Spaghetti and Classic Tomato Sauce 
Free for children under 12 and Band Members Dinner. This sinful portion includes homemade Minestrone soup or crisp salad and devilishly hot loaves of San Francisco 
Highlights: sourdough bread. An enlightening offer good Sundays thru 
• Cash Bar -Snacks Wednesdays until October 28, 1992. 
• 
Dancing to Rick Purcell Combo 

• 
Video Interview with Coach Lou Holtz 

• 
Remarks from Notre Dame's Official Family and Athletic Department 

• 
Irish Greats of the Past 


• 
Cheers by Cheerleading Squad • •All-Star Marching Band" 


if... 
Spaghetti Warehouse 
• Great Italian Food. All-American Fun. • 

No reservation necessary -just show up for agreat reunion evening of Notre Dame family a~d friends.
501 North Niles • In The Works Hotel • 232-4414 
Good Sunday through Wednesday, until October 28, 1992, dinner only. Not good with other discounts, coupons or specials. 



page 13 
,­


set up freshman Bobby Abrams' 
3 7 -yard field goal. 
The Irish got the ball back, trailing 23-16 with 8:22 left to play, but the offense could an­swer the call. Following a seven-yard reception by Griggs and two more incomplete passes by Mirer, the Cardinal got the ball back at their own 28. 
They then went 72 yards to go up 30-16. Milburn picking up 44 yards on the drive, in­cluding the final 14 for the touchdown. 
"We hit Notre Dame with a bob-sweep, which was a big part of the 49er offense," Walsh explained. "I think that snuck up on the Notre Dame defense." 
On the ensuing kickoff, the Irish tried the "Washington Redskin" play, but Clint John­son's cross-field toss to Lee Becton was intercepted by David Walker. 
"It was a desperation move," Holtz said of the play. "We worked on it a little, but we weren't ready to use it." 
The Cardinal added a field goal to provide the final margin of victory. 
The day started off well for the Irish, as Demetrius DuBose blitzed on the first play of the game and forced Stenstrom to fumble. The Cardinal recovered the ball in their end zone, and the Irish had a 2-0 lead less than 10 seconds into the game. 
After the free kick the Irish cruised 55 yards to open up a 9-0 lead on Reggie Brooks' 12­yard option run. 
Jeff Burris then extended the lead to 16-0 with 10:52 left in the first half, when he capped a 84-yard drive on a two-yard scamper. 
"Notre Dame is an intimidat­ing team. We were outmanned at the start, but we didn't lose courage," Walsh said. "We hung • in there and gutted it out. 
"This is one of greatest wins for Stanford University." 
And one of the biggest losses for Notre Dame, especially the 
....

seniors, who will leave without a national championship. 
"It hurts that it's most likely over," Mirer commented. "We don't have a conference to win, there's no consolation prize." 
page 14 The Observer Monday, October 5. 1992 

Weekend split for women's soccer 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team got a glimpse of what it is capable of, and also where it needs to be in the Golden Dome Classic this weekend. 
On Friday, the 20th-ranked Irish used a goal from freshman Rosella Guerrero and a strong defensive performance to topple 16th-ranked Wisconsin 1-0 at Alumni Field. 
Sunday against second­ranked Stanford, the over­matched Irish team fell 3-0. 
After falling short against two ranked teams the week before, Notre Dame finally came away with the win against the Bad­gers, its first· win against a na­tionally rated opponent. 
'Irish coach Chris Petrucelli was not reserved in his feelings on the magnitude of the win. 
"This is the biggest win of my career and the in the history of this program," said an emo­tional Petrucelli after the game. 
Lanza explodes for three goals in 4-0 win over Dayton 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
Consistency hasn't been a major strength for the Notre Dame men's soccer team this season. 
They proved that again this weekend, dropping a 1-0 deci­sion to Xavier before exploding to defeat Dayton 4-0. 
Missed scoring opportunities and an outstanding perfor­mance from Musketeer goal­keeper Dave Schureck ham­pered Friday night's game. 
Twice the Irish appeared to crack the scoring column. Freshmen Bill Lanza beat Schureck, but Xavier sweeper Brad Sullivan swept the ball away before it crossed the goal line. 
Cheap 
I continued from page 16 i 
f. Holtz commanded his quar­terback to throw thrice on the
I 
next Notre Dame possession.
I 
Only one pass was complete.
I 
Notre Dame punted. Stanford
I 
drove and scored. Game over.
I 
I With a pass-control attack 
I like Stanford's, Notre Dame could be something frightening, 
r 
I what with Mirer, good blocking, I and a plethora of pass­I catchers. With Bettis, Brooks,
I 
Becton and an occasional
I 
Burris, the Irish would blast by
I 
defenders.
I 
But Holtz, with his occasional 

I 
dependence on Mirer's arm,
I 
dooms the Irish to losses in big
I 
I 
' 
I l 
WE'RE PUTnNG DRUGS

I 
I 
OUT OF BUSINESS.

I 
I 
_ 
.. 
Sister Act PG 
5:15, 7:30, 10:00 
Hero PG13 
4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
The last of the Mohicans R 
4:40, 7:15, 9:45 

"For overall ratings and play­offs, this is a huge win." 
"Huge" was also a word de­scribing the play of the Notre Dame defense. Defenders Jill Matesic and Andrea Kurek, along with goalie Michelle Lodyga came up big, stopping numerous Wisconsin attacks, particularly in the second half. 
Their performance keyed the Irish offensive attack, opening the door for many scoring op­portunities, one being Guer­rero's goal at the 63:52 mark in the second half. 
The freshman forward took a perfect crossing pass from fel­low attacker Jodi Hartwig, and then beat the Wisconsin keeper to the right, top corner of the net. 
"The ball got over to Jodi, and she gave me a great pass," commented Guerrero. "I was a little off-balance but I was able to get the shot off." 
Wisconsin coach Greg Ryan acknowledged the strong show­ing by Notre Dame. 
"They (Notre Dame) got us out of our rhythm in the second half," said the Badger's coach. "They are an extremely fast, quick team and that was hard for us to defend." 
Aiding Notre Dame perfor­mance against the Badgers was the return of captain Margaret Jarc. The senior sweeper had been hampered by a knee in­jury, and saw her first action of the year. 
"It feels great to be back," commented Jarc. "The knee felt good. I went in for a tackle in the second half and it hurt a bit, but other than than that it was fine." 
Jarc got her first start against Stanford, but even her added experience could not help Notre Dame. The Cardinal proved why they are considered the second best team in the coun­try, dominating from the onset. 
Sarah Ratenelli struck first for Stanford in the games open­ing moments, beating Lodyga at the 2:54 mark. The junior's goal 
see SOCCER/page 1 0 
Earlier in the game, sopho­more Tont Richardson had a goal called back because of an off-sides penalty. 
"It's a little disappointing," Irish coach Mike Berticelli said. "We had two million chances, but we couldn't put the ball in the back of the net." 
Mike Mossei scored the lone goal on an assist from Brian Petz late in the first half. 
The win kept Xavier atop the MCC with a 4-0 record, while the Irish fell to 1-1 i~ the con­ference, but Berticelli didn't dwell on the loss. 
"The regular season confer­ence games are really just practice games for the confer­ence tournament," he com­mented. "We still believe that we have a great chance to win the MCC tournament and that is our focus." 
Redemption was their focus Sunday against Dayton, and Lanza and Richardson were key figures again. 
Lanza, playing with a slight contusion in his right thigh, notched the first of his three goals just seven minutes into the game when he took a pass from Richardson in front of the net and fired a bullet of a shot past a sprawling Dayton goal­keeper. 
Richardson scored Notre Dame's second goal one minute into the second half as he lofted a shot that found the back of the net, and the scoring barrage began. 
Lanza got on the board again fifteen minutes later after tak-
TRUMAN SCHOLARSHIP 
INFORMATION MEETING 
E.QR 
JUNIORS INTERESTED IN PUBLIC SERVICE 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6th 4:30 -5:00 p.m. 217 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALl. 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
DIRECTED BY MARK PILKINTON 
Wednesday, October 7, 8:10pm Thursday, October 8, 8:10pm Friday, October 9, 8: I 0 pm Saturday, October I0, 8: I 0 pm Sunday, October II, 3: I 0 pm 
Washington Hall Reserved Seats • $7 Student and Senior Citizen discounts are available Wed., Thurs. and Sun. performances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. Master Card and VISA orders: 239-8128 
ABORTlON K\LLS 
CH\LDREN 
ing a perfect lead pass from Kevin Adkisson and beating the Dayton goalie for the second time. 
With 20 minutes remaining, he took a pass from Mike Palmer and shook another Dayton defend~r. completing the hat-trick and giving the Irish a 4-0 lead. 
"Bill deserves a lot of credit," Berticelli said. "We expect him to make things happen in front of the goal, and he was able to do that today." 
The hat-trick was the first for an Irish player since sophomore Jean Joseph scored three goals in last season's game against the Flyers. 
see MEN'S/page 1 0 
7:00 
M)Til3Loy sla!S in !his 1926 film by direclor Ermt Lulit.i:h. 
PSYCHO 9:00 
Anlhooy Perkim &JaJEt Leigh in Hitcocock's claK!iic. 
TUESDAY ocr. 6 SHE'S GOTIAHAVE IT 7:00 
Spike Lte's fl!St fdm features his n(WI famous Mm Blackmon. 
TOUCH OF EVIL 9:00 
Marleo: Dietrich stm in OM! Welles' seedy 1958 mystery. 
FRIDAY &SATURDAY ocr. 9& 10 
THUNDERHEART 
7:15 &9:45 VI Kim~~ apct-SillllAIIapwlmllli!clWllllisNiill: 


F l) r 5 l' n i l) r N u r s i n g S t u d l' n t s 

NURSING 


HORIZONS 
A seminar to help you prepare for personal and professional decisions. 
October 16 & 17, 1992 Mayo Medical Center • Rochester, Minnesota 
SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS 
• 
Transition: From New Graduate to Expert Nurse 

• 
The Future Nurses of Oz 


BREAKOUT SESSIONS 
• 
Financial Planning • Preparing for Your Job Search 

• 
Collaborative Practice-What It Is And What It Isn't 

• 
State Boards: Are You Ready? 


Your $10 registration fee covers sessions, instruction materials and food. Mayo Medical Center will cover the cost of lodging for out-of-town participants. 
Deadline for registration is October 9, 1992 
Calll-800-545-0357 for registration information and brochure. 
C5J 
Nursing Horizons is sponsored by Mayo Center for Nursing Rochester, Minnesota 55905 
Mayo Foundation is an affirmativt• action and ••qual "l'l""tunify t•dut'llfor filiiI t'llll'loyt•r. A smoke-free institution. · · 



Today
Monday, October 5, 1992 
page 15 

SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


COMING ATTRACTIONS:  
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday &Saturday  
The Mclaughlin Group  Enjoy Wall Street,  The Hand that Rocks the Cradle  
Election Debate 1992  an entertaining film  is an exciting suspense thriller  
8 pm Stepan Center  about greed and  that will keep you on the edge of  
Free Admission  corruption in NYC  your seat  
All movies shown at 8:00 & 10:30 pm at Cushing Auditorium  
 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
fv\o\o\ OI{CE. S<l id <;HE LOYce:\ Jus\-H-I'E Wa'i l <HI\, So I 'tioHcit:R 'fl\-lqt WO\IL<I ·~t r 'Dtcq""~ "' cL<~t~~. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Harem quarters 57 Become enriched
35 Simians

1 Catamaran 
selfishly 5lnterlaced 36 Chaff 
62Wander 10 Ready money 38 Like-minded 
63 A sermon of 14 Dugout, French Buddha
folks 

style 41 Mediterranean 
64 An iridaceous 15 Selassie of Sea arm plant Ethiopia 
42Ciose by 65 Humdinger 16 Burden 
43 Actor Wallach 66 Of a bristle 11 Loafer 
44 Calendar abbr. 67 State, to Satie 20 Rankle 
45. Two-toed sloth 

21 This might be viva or sotto 46 Engendered DOWN 22 Discomfort 47-gum, used 1 Rabble in varnishes 
25 Towel fabric 2Have-in 49 Of the nostrils one's bonnet 
29 Finn's compatriot 3 Lippo Lippi's 
51 Rave's partner 
colleagues

32 Eskimo knives 
53 Namesakes of a 
4 Very bouncy

33 Within: Comb. mythical 
movement

form huntress 
5Asa consequence 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 6 Scull 7 Pizazz 8 Lycee attenders 9 Lucius Domitius Ahenobarbus ~:-F.t:==-1 10 Logical 11 Collection of anecdotes 12 Light source 13 F.D.R.'s successor 18 Female lobster 
~-'-"'+~::+-:--.. ~~RB:W...:::+.:-F--1 19 CL doubled .;:.+:;.:+;;:..fi!III-::=-IH;.:-t 23 Hebrew letter .:+.=+:-t:":-t-:-t~:::-1 24 Girl in "Le Nozze di Figaro" .;;.J,..;;...L;;;..L...;..L.;;....I=.&.~ 26 Stamen part 
BILL WAITERSON 

it \.tEll. Sot-1 Wqs GRO.'i Oll<l Sli?pt.R'\ 41-\d 5\..it-Ai, 
O.N o'JEIIS iztc:l 1-!oRs !)'OEUVRE, 'flo-~Ld 11\olll s\iLLI\<lvt. ~1\t 
27 English essayist: 45 False 1672-1729 46 Fresh's hat 28 Abominable 48 Ole relative so Serbian city 
29 Having rounded divisions 52 Headland 54 Barber's call 
30 Farewells 55 Where Korea is 
31 Gypsum 
notable

56 Immediately, to 
35 King in I Kings 

61 New Deal meas. 36 Concept of perfect beauty Get answers to any three clues 
a druggist 
37 Swiss stream by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
39Rat 5656 (75¢ each minute)•
40 Cape off N.C. 



CAMPUS 
Monday 
Noon. Multicultural Fall Festival. "Culture on the Quad," featuring food and entertainment. Fieldhouse Mall. Sponsored by Multicultural Executive Council. 
4:30 p.m. Multicultural Fall Festival. "Entertainment on the Quad," featuring entertainment by different Notre Dame groups. Fieldhouse Mall. 
6:30 p.m. Information Session, "London and Rome Summer Programs," Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's. Sponsored by London and Rome Programs, Saint Mary's. 
Tuesday 
Noon. Multicultural Fall Festival. "Culture on the Quad," featuring food and entertainment. Fieldhouse Mall. 

LECTURES 

Monday 
Noon. Lecture: "Does Religious Morality Play an Essential Role in the Argument for Human Rights?" Michael Perry, professor, Northwestern University, School of Law. Courtoom, Law School. Sponsored by The Thomas White Center on Law and Government. Noon. Multicultural Fall Festival Fireside Chats, "Grey Panthers." Lounge, ISO, second floor LaFortune Student Center. 
4:15 p.m. Lecture Series: "Brahms and Schenker: A Mutual Response to Sonata Form," Peter Smith. Room 124, Crowley Hall. Sponsored by music department. 
Tuesday 
Noon. Multicultural Fall Festival Fireside Chats, "Multiculturalism in the Media," Ava Collins. Lounge, ISO, second floor LaFortune Student Center. 
MENU 

Notre Dame 
Turkey Broccoli Bake Pasta Bar Cheese and Rice Croquettes 
_... 

r.----~---------~-~ 
! · Sports 
f 
..._ 
page 16 
ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Cheap Shots 
Return to run 
answer for stalled 
Irish offense 
Whatever happened to smash-mouth football? Whatever happened to three yards and a cloud of dust? 
Even Lou Holtz, that bespectacled Woody Hayes disciple, who has long been a vociferous supporter of a strong backfield, has succumbed to the allure of the passing game. 
Rick Mirer's strong arm has spoken to him in hushed tones, seduced him, lulled him into a pass-happy sleep. "Lou, I can take you where you have never been before. I can beat Bill Walsh for you." 
But Mirer's arm, and the passing game, deceive. They lied Saturday afternoon. With the Irish fighting off another opponent revitalized at half­time, Holtz turned to the passing game, and it betrayed him. 
Notre Dame loses when it passes. And the Irish are not supposed to lose-especially when at least two Reisman Trophy candidates claim resi­dence in the backfield. 
Notre Dame has always achieved success with the run, and will always achieve success with the run. The passing game is for nuts in California, crazy men like Walsh. Since Mirer took over as quarterback in 1990, Notre Dame is 22-7-1. When Mirer throws fewer than 25 times in a game, the Irish are 21-2. Subtract. 
When Mirer attempts more than 25 passes, Notre Dame is 1-5-1. 
Against Stanford on Saturday, Mirer attempted 38 passes. When Penn State walloped the Irish last season, Mirer threw 37 passes. In the 1991 Orange Bowl loss, the then-sophomore sensation threw 31 times. Each time, Mirer had 16 or fewer completions. 
But Saturday, the now-senior was not so sensational. Given, statistics can lie. Mirer was forced to throw on these occasions partly because opposing defenses bottled up the Irish running game. Against Stanford, however, Holtz had his big gun firing from ground zero. 
Mirer attempted 18 passes in the first half, completing only four. During the second half, Holtz had Mirer throwing with little abandon. One "drive" con­sisted of a long miss to Mike Miller, a run for a loss, and another bad pass. Punt. 
The next Irish possession was pushed by short runs by Bettis, Brooks and Mirer. The running game, coupled with Stanford penalties, brought the Irish close to the Cardinal goal line and another lead early in the fourth quarter. But an interception ended the drive, and according to Holtz, may have broken Notre Dame's back. 
But though Holtz and the Irish achieved their only success of the second half during that drive, with the running game, the coach never re­turned to that strategy. Instead, the coach fell victim to the passing game's allure. 
see CHEAP/page 14 
INSIDE SPORTS 
•women's 
soccer splits 


see page 14 
•AP 
top twenty-five 

see page 12 
•sMC 
volleyball faulters 

see page 11 
Monday, October 5, 1992 

Inspired Cardinal top Irish, 33-16 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 

The tie, Florida State-Miami, the polls, they are all meaningless to Notre Dame now. 
The Irish's national championship hopes were all but de­stroyed on Saturday, as the Stanford Cardinal scored 33 unanswered points to roll to a 33-16 win. 
"The last time (in 1990), there was an excuse when 
Stanford beat Notre Dame," Cardinal coach •offense keys win/see page 13 Bill Walsh stated. "This year, there is no excuse. We beat Notre Dame pure and simple." 
The Irish jumped out to a 16-0 lead early in the second quarter, but then their offense became plagued by turnovers. 
Though the Cardinal fell behind early, Walsh fplt his team was always in the game. 
"We saw tapes of Tennessee down 31-7, and we talked about how you play when you're down," Walsh explained. "We just continued to play hard. We have a high standard of performanee and you play at that level, regardless of the score." 
The first Irish miscue was a controversial fumble by Ray Griggs, who appeared to be down when the ball popped loose. Stanford's Darrien Gordon returned the fumble to the Notre Dame 23. 
Three play's later Glyn Milburn took a reverse right in from six yards out to pull the Cardinal within ten, 16-6. 
The Irish responded by marehing 46 yards to the Stanford 34, but they lost the ball on downs when Rick Mirer, who was an anemic 13-for-38 passing on the day, overthrew Adrian Jarrell. 
"I didn't have a good day," Mirer admitted. "I couldn't make the play when we needed it. This was the most frustrating day I've ever had. 
"We had (Stanford's defense) figured out, we couldn't exe­cute. I flat out missed a few guys. We just didn't connect to­day." 
On the first play from scrimmage in the second half, Jerome Bettis coughed up the first of his two fumbles in the game, and Stanford took over on the Notre Dame 22. 
"It was uncharacteristic of me," Bettis said in a quiet Irish locker room. "It very frustrating to have two fumbles. I'm going to have to re-evaluate the way I'm running the football, and the things I'm doing." 
Stanford once again capitalized, scoring on an eight-yard The Observer/Jake Peters pass from Steve Stenstrom to Tommy Armour to cut the Receiver Ray Griggs lunges for a Rick Mirer pass in the first half. 
see IRISH/page 13 

Late comeback propels Notre Dame to victory 
By SEAN SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
The sixth-ranked Notre Dame men's cross country team defeated 22nd­ranked Eastern Michigan by one point to win the thirty seventh annual Notre Dame Cross Country Invitational. 
Michigan expected to be a strong contender in this meet placed a disappointing third. Sandu Remenciuc, "the flying Romanian" out of Augustana College won the race with a time of 
24:30.8. Remenciuc, NCAA division III champion is undefeated this season. 
The race was close from the start. In the first 300 meters Eastern Michigan packed together and stayed close to Notre Dame All-American Mike McWilliams. Down this first stretch, the Notre Dame pack was more spread out than in previous races. 
By the first mile mark Notre Dame's pack had fallen apart. McWilliams was the first Irish runner and the rest of the Notre Dame team was scattered among the leaders behind him. Eastern Michigan stayed together after the first mile. 
By three and a half miles, the Notre Dame victory was at stake. 1\vo Eastern Michigan runners were out ahead of McWilliams and fellow All-American, John Coyle. 
"Eastern Michigan did exactly what it needed to win," said Notre Dame head coach Joe Piane. 
In the final mile, Notre Dame lost the lead. McWilliams and Coyle had been surpassed by Eastern Michigan and the race was left up to Notre Dame's three, four, and five men. 
"Our three, four and five runners came through and pulled out the win for us," said Senior captain John Coyle. 
Notre Dame's third runner, Nate Ruder finished ninth with a time of 24:58. Senior Nick Radkewich followed with a seventeenth place finish. The story of the day was the performance of sophomore J.R. Meloro who followed right behind Radkewich with an eigh­teenth place finish. 
"J.R. deserves a lot of credit,"said McWilliams. 
John Cowan who had a lackluster start insured victory for the Irish by passing Eastern Michigan's John Pottschmidt in the final mile. 
While Notre Dame won the meet, the team has certainly had better performances this year. 
"A win's a win, but McWilliams and I were disappointed by our performances," said Coyle. 
Notre Dame will have to improve from this race if it wants to insure a bid to the NCAA meet. Guaranteed bids are determined in the district meet where the Irish will face both Eastern Michigan, Michigan as well as second­ranked Wisconsin. 
"Eastern Michigan ran great," said Coach Piane, but as Notre Dame sophomore John Cowan put it "They haven't seen us run yet." 
Women finish second in Invitational 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Writer 
It looked like a scene out of Chariots of Fire as women representing schools from across the United States and Canada prepared themselves to attack the grueling 3.1 mile long layout at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
As the gun exploded, mass bedlam ensued, marking the beginning of the Notre Dame Invitational, the last home meet of the season for the Notre Dame women's cross country team. 
As the dust cleared, a large spectator turnout witnessed a strong team performance by the Irish overshadowed by an incredible running exhibition from the University of Michigan. 
"It was a good day for us, but we let Michigan get away too fast," said sophomore Sarah Riley, last week's Midwest Collegiate Conference Player­of-the-Week. "We should have stayed on them more at the start of the race, and maybe we could have caught them at the end." 
The Wolverines dominated from the outset, overtaking a lone Kent runner midway through the race and never looking back. The first four places were occupied by Michigan runners, who won the race with a total of sixteen points, followed by Notre Dame with 52 and Western Ontario with 120. Central Michigan took fourth with 193 points, and South Dakota State came in fifth with 195. 
Karen Harvey edged out fellow Wolverines Amy Bichhole and Chris Szabo to take the title. For the Irish, Riley set the pace with a fifth-place finish, followed by Emily Husted in eighth and Stephanie Jensen in ninth. Strong efforts by Eva Flood (fourteenth) and Kristi Kramer (sixteenth) helped Notre Dame to secure a second place finish. 
"We just wanted to compete with them and prepare ourselves for the upcoming meets," Riley said. "It was good for us to face the same competition that we will face in our District meet. Overall, we are pleased with how we ran today." 
The women's next meet will be Friday, October 16, at the Indiana Intercollegiates in West Lafayette, Indiana. The Irish will hope to remain consistent and to improve their times as they near Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships. 







