~-----~ -~­
. 

l 
~·~ 
-Q~­
1841 1992 

e Observer ~mMM~~Cd~ l 
SfSQUIC(N'INNIAL 
NOTRE OAME•INDIANA 

1


FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1992VOL XXIV NO. 141 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Student government report claims little funds spent on financial aid 
By PAUL PEARSON To help gauge student opin­resources further," the report 
Associate News Editor ion, the committee sent a sur­said. vey to students about their fi­The Office of Financial Aid nancial situations. According to estimated last January that 
Notre Dame commits too little the report, when asked to $26.6 million of the University's 
funds to student financial aid, characterize financial aid at 1991-92 undergraduate pack­according to a student ND, 41.38 percent of the re­ages are scholarships or grants; government report presented spondents called it "poor," and $13.5 million are loans and yesterday to the Board of another 34.48 percent de­$3.3 million are work-study Trustees. scribed it as "below average." programs, the report said. 
The report, prepared by a According to the report, this student government committee, • Trustees reply/ page 3 forces the University to devote said that the University's finan­its scholarships to two groups: cial aid situation drives many "Not one student circled the op­Notre Dame Scholars, which prospective students away. tion of 'excellent,"' the report are given to outstanding incom­
"Like it or not," the report said. ing students based on merit and says, "Notre Dame is in danger The survey also asked stu­need, and Holy Cross packages, of becoming a two-class uni" dents what forms of financial which are given to minority 
versity: a school for the wealthy aid they received. While more students based on financial 
and a school for the fortunate than 7 5 percent of the respon­need. 
few who receive substantial dents said they receive either a This policy, according to the 
scholarships and aid." Stafford or a Perkins Loan, less report, "annually eliminates 
The report recommends: than 25 percent said they have hundreds of outstanding stu­
• The Board form a commit­a University scholarship, the dents who deserve scholarship 
tee to further investigate the fi­report said. consideration." nancial aid situation. This survey, according to the The report also says that re­
• 
More unrestricted gifts from report, "demonstrates the belief cent University fundraising ef­the Sorin Society be directed that financial aid at Notre Dame forts have not put enough em­towards scholarships. is simply not what it should be." phasis on scholarship funds. As 

• 
The next University Notre Dame relies too heavily evidence for this, the report 


The Observer/Meg Kowalski 
fundraising drive focus primar­on student loans in its financial cites the recent Strategic
, 
Glittering dome 
ily on financial aid. aid packages, said the report. Moment campaign. Although 
• A group of ND donors be "The first components (of ND the campaign's overall goal was The golden dome glistens in the April sunshine. Spring has finally
created "for the sole purpose of student aid packages) are two exceeded by $156 million, only arrived in South Bend, and everyone on campus has been enjoying boosting financial aid." loans and a job, enabling the 
see REPORT I page 12 

the warm weather.
university to spread its scarce 

GLND/SMC denied official

Cultural diversity report ready 
By PANCHO LOZANO ment that is more inclusive change people's minds or News Writer and hospitable to various hearts." 

recogniton by University
cultures. The majority of the recom­

By BECKY BARNES judgement that formal
The Task Force on Cultural It was formed in spring 1991 mendations contained in the recognition of GLND/SMC car­Diversity will issue the first of­and is co-chaired by Smith and report focus on issues affecting 
News Writer 
ries with it an implicit sanction ficial report containing the Father Richard Warner, coun­undergraduate students, The Student Activities Office 
for a homosexual lifestyle
has denied Gays and Lesbians over the last year. "The concerns raised by the directed primarily at graduate 
preliminary findings obtained selor to the president. although a number are at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
• Org. endorsed/ page 3 

There will also be a students just helped simply to students. 
(GLND/SMC) University subgroup of the Task Force facilitate and focus efforts that Some of the issues addressed 
recognition as a student orga­which is not in keeping with thethis summer that will put were already underway," ac­by the task force include a re­nization. 
values of the University or thetogether an action plan which cording to Smith. "We decided view of topics such as the mis­Joe Cassidy, director of Stu­teachings of the Church."
will be a "phase II" of the to take this opportunity to re­sion statement, the dent Affairs, said that he saw 
In Tuesday's letter to
report not only to offer ally look at the issues of cul­curriculum, undergraduate no difference in the application 
GLND/SMC informing them of
recommendations, but also an tural diversity in a comprehen­support !'ervices, and an 
for recognition, submitted in 
the decision, Cassidy wrote thatinitial plan as to how these sive and pro-active way and identification of responsibility March, than in a proposal sub­"any change in the University'srecommendations may be ad­not be confined to specific for Cultural Diversity issues. 
mitted by the group in 1986, 
position would have to come on
which was refused by former
dressed, according to Roland issues." The report's recommenda­appeal to the Vice President forSmith, one of the chairmans of Warner believed that con­tions include: 
Vice President of Student Af­
Student Affairs."

the Task Force. cerns about higher education • The mission statement fairs Father David Tyson. 
Patricia O'Hara, vice presi­
Although the 1986 proposalThe Task Force on Cultural and Malloy's commitment to should emphasize that the dent for Student Affairs, saidDiversity was formed by cultural diversity created the University extends an open 
did not ask for recognition, 
she has not received an appealUniversity President Father urgency to form the task force. attitude towards welcoming a Tyson and other administrators yet and cannot forecast her re­Edward Malloy to address is­"It's difficult for people from more culturally diverse com­
determined that to grant the 
sponse until she sees such an sues raised by the Students different backgrounds and cul­munity. 
requests of GLND/SMC would 
appeal.

United For Respect (SUFR). tures to live together, but it's a • The curriculum should in­give formal recognition to the 
Michael Vore, official
Smith believed that the main terribly essential thing," said clude setting aside funds to group. 
spokesperson for GLND/SMC,
goal of the Task Force was to Warner. "Still you can never hire more minority faculty and In a letter to the organization, said that the decision by Stu-
Tyson wrote that recognition
create a total campus environ-legislate action that will 
see DIVERSITY I page 12 

was refused because "it is our see GLND I page 12 
National guard called to control riot-torn neighborhoods 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Riots, outburst of destruction that skyscrapers in thick smoke. rerouted around columns of Bernardino. arson and looting raged in the terrorized vast parts of the city Arizona Gov. Fife Symington smoke. Santa Monica, to the Most of the rioters were black, Los Angeles area Thursday and for a second day, from said California Gov. Pete Wilson west, closed its beaches. but whites, Asians and the death toll rose to 18 as downtown to the suburban San luuJ ilik~d biw fg;~; ~~~tig;g"l Shoppers stocked up on Hispanics took part in some of National Guard troops moved Fernando Valley. batteries and candles, fearing the violence.
• TV coverage/ page 15 

into neighborhoods torn by At nightfall Thursday, violence power outages as night In 18 hours ending at 6 p.m., 
outrage over the Rodney King had spread into San • Riot reactions/ page 14 approached. firefighters responded to 1,281 
verdict. Bernardino, 60 miles to the "Why tear down something structure fires. Officials said 
• Juror comments/ page 14 

Gunfire erupted after two east, where one person died in you own? We all have to make a they were too busy to compile 
Guard equipment and told him: 

dozen Guard soldiers arrived at a gun battle between a security living here. I just don't damage estimates.
"It's out of control." Wilson 

a video arcade threatened by guard and a motorist that police understand it," said Miles Police arrested six youths in
declared a state of emergency

looters. The machine-gun-toting said was riot-related. Taylor, 49, a black man who has suburban Compton and said
and was flying to Los Angeles 

soldiers did not return fire. Vandals descended upon lived in South Central Los they may have been part of a
from the capital, Sacramento.

Bands of people roamed the historic Hollywood Boulevard Angeles since 1965, when the youth gang that was trying to
Much of the city shut down.

streets after a dusk-to-dawn west of downtown, setting fire Watts ghetto exploded in riots. torch 10 buildings an hour. "To 
Bus service was halted,

curfew took effect. Police said to at least one business. Police spokeswoman Sharon them, it's a free-for-all," said
professional sporting events 

there were no immediate As many as 40 fires were Michaelson said 17 deaths had California Highway Patrol Lt. 
were postponed, thousands of 

arrests. burning at dusk. At least six been confirmed in Los Angeles Bud Shields. 
businesses and schools were

About 450 people had been new major blazes ringed from the rioting. That was in
closed, and some flights were

injured and 300 arrested in the downtown, enveloping the city's addition to the death in San see RIOT I page 15 
~page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 

I
l 
Partly sunny and  
warmer today, high  
70 to 75.  Cloudy  
tonight with a 40  
percent chance of  
thunderstorms.  
Partly cloudy  
Saturday and high  
65 to 70.  
TEMPERATURES:  
City  H  L  
And10rage  4 7  35  
Athens  82  55  
Atlanta  78  50  
Bogota  90  79  
Boston  64  38  
Cairo  82  57  
Charlohe  7t  49  
Chicago  61  43  
Cleveland  54  48  
Dallas  74  56  
Detroit  62  49  
ndlanapolls  75  45  
Jerusalem  68  52  
London  59  45  
Los Angeles  7 5  58  
Madrid  81  46  
Minneapolis  70  55  
Moscow  63  39  
Nashville  83  54  
New York  62  42  
Paris  54  36  
i)~c::=!  Philadelphia Rome Seahle  67 72 58  44 55 47  
RAIN.  T-STORMS  FlURRES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  South Bend  7 1  44  
Tokyo  66  52  
Washington. D.C.  64  49  
·:·:·::.:.  




TODAY AT AGLANCE 


MARKET UPDATE YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ April 30 

VOLUME IN SHARES 223,190,000  NYSE INDEX A. 232.15 v S&P COMPOSITE 414.95 .. DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3359.12 ...  2 3.84 2.93 5.94  
PRECIOUS METALS  
GOLDi'  $1.50  to $377.90 oz.  
SILVER-'ft  3.3¢ to $3.988oz.  

NATIONAL Abdul and Estevez tie the knot 

•SANTA MONICA, Calif.-Singer Paula Abdul, whose latest single is "Will You Marry Me?" exchanged wedding vows this week with actor Emilio Estevez. The celebrity pair, both 28, exchanged vows Wednesday in a judge's chambers at Santa Monica Superior Court. It is the first marriage for both. Janet Sheen, Estevez's mother, attended the small ceremony. His father, actor Martin Sheen, did not attend. The couple's honeymoon plans were not disclosed. 
Shatner rides in Derby Parade 

•LOUISVILLE, Ky.-After years of boldly going where no man has gone before, William Shatner, whose "Star Trek" television and movie series made him a cult hero as the Starship Enterprise's Capt. James Kirk, was eager to call it a day yesterday after covering two miles of hot pavement on horseback in the Kentucky Derby Parade. Shatner highlighted a parade which tens of thousands of people watched peacefully despite disturbances in several cities after four white Los Angeles policemen were cleared Wednesday in the beating of a black motorist. 

INDIANA 

Accident charges may soon be filed 

•SOUTH BEND -Findings from police investigation 


OF INTEREST 


into a hit-and-run accident on February 16, has been forwarded to the prosecuter's office, according to Sgt. Charlie Feirrell of St. Joseph County Police. The prosecuter's office will decide what charges to file in the coming weeks, he added. A Notre Dame junior later admitted involvement in the accident, but he has yet to be formally charged, Feirrell said. Saint Mary's sophomores Elizabeth Joyce and Cara McCourt were in­jured in the accident. 

CAMPUS 
Business professor given award 
•NOTRE DAME -Herb True, adjunct professor of business administration and economics, was named 1992 Education-Listener of the Year by the International Listening Association (ILA). The award honors True for being a model listener, speaker and educator. True, who describes himself as an educator, has written numerous books and has been featured on numerous television recordings. 
cert is sponsored by the India Association of Notre DameMhe Midnight Pancake Breakfast will be held Sunday and admission is $3. 
from 11 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. in both dining halls. 

•A panel presentation on "The portrayal of Native•Scholar Gregoriana, members of the medieval insti­
Americans in our local schools," will take place on Maytute will perform Ordo Virtutum (The Order of Virtues}, a 
12, at 7 p.m. in the Colfax Cultural Center, 914
medieval drama composed by St. Hideyard of Bingen on Lincolnway West. 
Sunday at 8 p.m. at St. Matthews Cathedral, 1701 Miami St. Renowned Irish vocalist Noirin Ni Riain will be fea­
•The St. Vincent Depaul Society will be holding a
tured in the role of the soul. 

clothing drive at all residence halls on May 4, May 12, and May 20. 
•A Concert of Indian Classical Music will be held May 7, at 7 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. This con-
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1884: Construction began on the first skyscraper, a 1 0­story structure in Chicago built by the Home Insurance Co. of New York. 

• 
In 1948: The People's Democratic Republic of Korea, or North Korea, was proclaimed. 

• 
In 1969: Students left the buildings they had seized at Columbia University after warrants for their arrest were issued. 

• 
In 1987: Pope John Paul II beatified Edith Stein, a Jewish­born Carmelite nun who was gassed in the Nazi death camp at Auschwitz during the Holocaust. 

• 
In 1990: Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev and other Kremlin leaders were jeered by thousands of people during the annual May Day parade in Red Square. 



· The-Cbsenler 


Trustees' reaction encourages government report committee 
By ALICIA REALE Assistant News Editor 
The Board of Trustees' reac­tion to yesterday's student gov­ernment report has encouraged the report committee, according to co-chairman Bong Miquiabas. 
"The purpose of the report was to substantiate that it (financial aid) is necessary so as to move toward the actual construction of the effort," said Miquiabas in an interview. 
"It wasn't as if we had to convince them (the Board of Trustees). With the report we were taking a pro-active stance," he said. 
"The trustees understand that financial aid is a problem. The report is to help them un­derstand how big a problem it is," said Michael Hobbs, com­mittee member. "There was a strong reception but the ques­tion is how they go about taking 
"Mnke your resoruntlons 
now for graduation!" 

the next step, " he said. 
The report dealt first with student dissatisfaction and second, with what Notre Dame is doing in terms of aid, what other universities are doing, and how to make improvements in the ND financial aid pro­gram, according to Miquiabas. 
"The big obstacle now is the nature of donations," Miquiabas said. Most people who are making six figure donations want to see tangible evidence of their donations such as buildings, he said. 
To make financial aid more appealing to contributors, the report recommends that dona­tions be increased through the creation of a society compara­ble to the Sorin Society, which would be solely devoted to fi­nancial aid. 
The report also recommends that plant funds be redirected in order to cut expansion and growth, and redirect endow­ment towards financial aid. 
"This is the ultimate goal," 
CHILOO£H 

UNDER 10 EllERY SUNDRY $3.95 
11 :30a to3:00pm 

Includes Soup, Salad Bar, Appetizers, 8Entrees and Desserts 
Cotlter ••nu lte1111 olao euolloblol 
30 Dixie Way s.. South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 272-7376 

""~vuS Trouble-free C~"" connections 
so you won't have a
U.P.S. 




SERVICE DAILY 

']jie Country J{arvester 
']v{onday tfiru :Friday 12 to 5 Saturday 11 to 2 'Ei(Jenad Jfours 'During :Finals Lower LeveC of La:fortune 
so<t. off each box with this ad 


$ 100.00 free insurance! 
said Miquiabas. "My optimism comes from the Trustees' con­cerns (with meeting these goals). They have already de­cided that financial aid will be the forefront of any subsequent drive." 
"The Office of Financial Aid can do no more than funds al­low. We will receive criticism as long as there are inadequate funds. Many students cannot attend the University because of financial concerns," said a member of the administration at the meeting. 
The board hopes to be able to meet the needs of every student and to reduce the self-help for each student. 
"Two Loans and work study are a hard burden to bear. A graduating 22-year-old is left with a 20,00 debt, a degree and a vague hope of finding a job," said one member. 
They hope to decrease self­help to only one loan instead of two. 

"Many are left unable to at­tend graduate schools (for fi­nancial reasons)," said a board member. "Notre Dame cannot continue to compete with other schools who can give more." 
The determination of who re­ceives financial aid "is not a perfect science, there is a lot of judgement involved. The results are adjusted through common sense," said a member of the administration. "I would cer­tainly endorse everything in the report. I have the sincerest consideration for what the trustees have done. The issue (of financial aid) is the most visible ever." 
"The problem lies in the com­peting needs of financial aid and the operating budget (of the University)," said a member of the administration. "It is dif­ficult to increase financial aid and lower tuition", the two are difficult to balance. 
"As an undergraduate student we see the new quad, the Strategic Moment campaign, we see the money going to ev­erything except financial aid," said Kimes. "We ask for the best faculty but we also ask the board to publicize our concerns because this is a pertinent con­cern to everyone." 
The NBC contract will con­tribute $20 million to financial aid in the next five years, ac-· cording to a member of the administration. 
About $75 million is received in aid by Notre Dame students. Over 60 percent of the current student population receives aid in some form but it is not all need-based. Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC), athletic and staff-child scholarships are some exceptions. 
"I am very optimistic about the future of the University," said a member of the adminis­tration. "Good things will hap­pen due to the high visibility (of the fmancial aid issue). We are in as good of shape as we have ever been." 

Faculty Senate endorses GLND/SMC application 
By BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 
The student affairs committee 

of the Faculty Senate will pro­pose a resolution endorsing the application of Gays and 

S-'4~. SIK.OO. --t,.,_~(6: ?~~ 'P.(). ~2 ~ Z>-u. 1..ua-46SSC. 
Wrae ,_~ -tie ~ ~tie~ --t-..at u.ut a~ t6 ,_. 'Z>~ t4 ?Jt.c., I 3. 
Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC) for recognition as an official Uni­versity organization, according to committee member Clark Power. 
Power, an associate professor in the Program of Liberal Stud­ies, said that the resolution originated because the commit­tee was approached by mem­bers of GLND/SMC, who asked for their support. To his knowledge, the Senate has never endorsed another group >eeking recognition. 
He expects the Senate to pass the resolution although objec­tions "may be more helpful than if the Senate just gave ap­proval," he said. 
If passed by the Senate, Power hopes that the resolution "would be taken into considera­tion by Vice President (Patty) O'Hara." 
Michael Yore, GLND/SMC spokesperson, expressed plea­sure that the faculty decided to consider their request and hopes they show support. 
If passed, "We hope that [the resolution] sends a strong mes­sage to the Administration," he said. 
Yore also asked that support­ers write letters to O'Hara. "We want as many people to be involved as possible," he said. 
The Senate resolution was written before the group was denied recognition by Student Affairs, said Power, and he does not know if the wording of the resolution will be changed. 



The Observer Friday, May 1 , 1992
page 4 

Malloy to speak at Catholic U. 
Special to The Observer 
Father Edward Malloy, president of the University of Notre Dame. will return to his hometown to address the Rfaduating class at The Catholic University of Amer­iea's 103rd commencement Hxercises May 9, in Washington. 
Malloy, in his fifth year as Notre Dame's president. will also receive an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree in ceremonies at the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception. 
Sister Alice Gallin. a mem­ber of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees and ex­ecutive director of the Asso­ciation of Catholic Colleges and Universities, will join Malloy and three others as honorary degree mcipients. Gallin also will receive an honorary degree at Notre Dame's Sesquicentennial Year commencement exer­cises May 17. 
Malloy is a member of President Bush's Advisory Council on Drugs, is a founding director of the Points of Light Initiative, and is vice chair and chair­elect of the American Council on Education. 
The Catholic University of America, founded in 1887, will confer degrees on more than 800 undergraduate and 600 graduate students at this year's commencement. 

Gofigtats Class ~f '92 F~om the ··No··cluo ofNew York. NYC Area Ddmers·call the Club Hotline: 718,826,DOME ·;for information on club activities. 
~.K.KKKK.KKK.NA"A"A"A"A"...-~~......-.KKKK.KK.KKKKKKKKKKKM 
~ ~  GRAND RE-OPENING  
~ ~  TODAY The Fund ue Parlor  
~  
~  
~  
~  
~  
~  
~  
~  
~ ~ ~ ~ ~  fast& the ,..\ronul of Roma~..... Reservations for Graduation now taken  
~  

~100 Center Old Brewery Building ~ Mishawaka ~ 255-1526 ~ 
~KKKKK.KKKKKKK.KKKK.KKKKKKKK.KKKKKKKNKKK~ 


Bush opens way for sale of public facilities 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) ­President Bush on Thursday gave states and cities greater freedom to sell to private in­vestors many public facilities built with federal help ­including airports, bridges, roads and sewage treatment plants. 
Bush said that in many cases. private companies can provide public services "more fairly and more efficiently" than govern­ments. 
The move was promoted as a revenue raiser for cash-starved states and communities. However. it was viewed warily by the National Governors' Assoeiation, the U.S. Conference of Mayors and others. 
"We're somewhat skeptical of this thing," said Tom Cochran, executive director of the may­ors' organization. Similarly, Rae Bond, public affairs director of the governors' association, said "This has not been on the governors' main agenda." 
Airlines expressed concern 
Move up to •MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS• 
• 
2 Bedroom Luxury Apartments (4 Apartments per Building) 

• 
Locked Entry with Intercom System 

• 
Full size Washer and Dryer for each Apartment 

• 
Pool and Clubhouse facilities 

• 
6 minutes from Campus 

• 
Flexible lease terms 

• 
Bring in this Ad for $50 off 1st months rent For further information call 277-3731 


Located at Cleveland and Bendix 
that private ownership of air­ports would bring higher oper­ating costs for the carriers. And Walter Shea, president of the AFL-CIO's Transportation Trades Department, com­plained, "For America's trans­portation workers, this call for privatization carries with it the frightening prospect that their jobs may soon be parceled out to the highest bidder." 
Bush announced his action on an abbreviated trip to Ohio. He cut back his appearances to consult with Attorney General William Barr. after violence flared in Los Angeles following the acquittal of four police offi­cers in the videotaped beating of black motorist Rodney King. 
After canceling an appear­ance at Bluffsview Elementary School. Bush addressed the Ohio Association of Broadcasters convention. He also attended a dinner to help Ohio's Republicans raise $600,000 for his own campaign and state GOP races. 

TovarA DEALER 
'f~~WKe {'harges accrue from lhe contract date. Deferred paymrnt not available in Nrw )et'SI')' on vehicles •ith a rash S<lling prier of less than $10,1XXJ 
0\992 Tuyotl ~otor Sales, l" SA, Inc 

SHEEPSKINS 

FOR CREDIT. 
Here's proof that your diploma is definitely worth more than the piece of paper it's written on. In fact. it can get you into a wild, yet practical, '92 Toyota Paseo. Or any one of our quality cars and trucks. 
Okay, motivated collegians. you can now take advantage of the incredible Toyota Class of '92 Retail Financing Program-if your diploma is from a four­year college, graduate school or regis­tered nursing program. Even if you're six months away from graduation. The hot scoop: Your dream Toyota can be 
SEE YoUR 
He called the violence in Los Angeles "mob brutality of the ugliest kind." He pledged to "do my level best to heal the wounds and to bring people to­gether in aftermath of the ugli­ness that we witnessed last night. A president should do no less." 
The dinner has caused a stir, with Democrats filing a com­plaint with the Ohio Elections Commission claiming the state GOP strong-armed lobbyists and others to buy tickets costing up to $10,000. Although Republicans denied the charges, GOP Gov. George Voinovich reprimanded his chief of staff last week for sending out a letter on the governor's stationery soliciting the purchase of tickets. 
It was Bush's second trip to Columbus in just 11 days. un­derscoring the importance of the Midwestern industrial state in the presidential campaign. 
The privatization announce­ment was the latest step in 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANDREW! 
,I 

15 years later -you are still a cutie. Love, Mom Da & Jim 





ThYOTA 
ACCEPTS 
yours for no money down and a 90-day* deferred payment1We offer you all this plus special College Grad finance rates. For even lower monthly payments. talk to your Toyota dealer about leasing. 
So, call it a diploma. Or call it a sheepskin. But be sure to call 1·800·5­COllEGE for the location of your near· 
estToyotadealer ~ 
and a brochure ~ 1'MCC] 
with full details CREDIT 
and qualification CORPORATION 
requirements. 
Bush's recent conversion to a campaign for deregulation, fol­lowing a growth in federal red tape in the first three years of his administration. 
In an executive order, Bush directed that states and local governments may be allowed to keep a larger share of the profits from the sale of facilities built with the help of federal funds. Traditionally, Washington has demanded a hefty share of the proceeds. 
The order said assets that could be sold include -but are not limited to -roads, tunnels, bridges, electric plants. mass transit and rail facilities, air­ports. ports. waterways, water supply facilities, recycling and wastewater treatment facilities, solid waste disposal facilities, public housing, schools, prisons and hospitals. 
"We hear complaints that America's infrastructure is crumbling and that states aren't putting enough money into expanding or repairing it." 


The Year in Review 
Friday, May 1, 1992 page 5 


3 



"Faculty, administration negotiating 

"Temporary hiring freeze now in effect in misconduct charges" 
"Burtchaell to resign amid sexual 
agreement" 

Arts and Letters" 
ND Theology 

Amid calls for a Professor James 
no-confidence Burtchaell 
vote, faculty and agreed to resign 
administration amid charges of 
representatives sexual 
agreed on a compromise tomisconduct with help resolve male undergrad­faculty concernsuates, according about their role to an article in in academic the National governance.
Catholic Reporter. 

December 3, 
April 22, 1992 1991 
6

5 
"Malloy reelected University President" 

"Loretto renovation certain; SMC women" 
"Pangborn Hall chosen to house community divided" 
University 


The Church of was selected to 
Pangborn Hall President Father 


Loretto at Saint be converted to a 
Edward Malloy 

Mary's will be women's 
was elected to a 

renovated in residence hall 
second five-year 

order to correct next year to 
term by the 

a number of accommodate an 
Board of 

structural increase in 
Trustees. He 

deficiencies. female students 
lauded alumni as 

Many at Saint at the University. 
instrumental to 

Mary's are the success of his 
opposed to the first term. 
changes. 


October 30, 
November 20, December 4, 1991 19911991 
9

8 
10 
"Task Force chair discusses new

"Bush will speak at graduation" 
"Butrus/O'Neill winners of presidential smoking policy" 
race" 

Out of concern President 


Greg Butrus George Bush will 
for the health 

and Molly O'Neill address 1992 
and well-being of 

!lotrusi(l'Ne\11 winner& ol presiden!ia! <ace won the election 
l--·. n1
the Notre Dame Notre Dame 

for student body graduates. 
community, 

president and Senator Daniel 
smoking was 

vice president, Patrick 
prohibited in all 

receiving 50.8 Moynihan will 
buildings, 

percent of the receive the 
stadiums or 

votes cast in the Laetare Medal at 
vehicles owned, 

four-ticket race commencement 
leased or exercises. 
operated by the 
University. 


March 19, 1992 
March 30, 1992 
February 11, 1992 




Editor's Note: Monica Yant and David Kinney served as editors for this section. Selections were made by members ofThe Observer News department . 
.-•-'"'""''"'*-.. -........ ~·-....... ,~~ · ~-..... ~ • ... ,.,.,: ... :'"':"" •.,.1"-...!.-_:':__ ~J;..:,r~.... .,:... 


~----------------~----~------­
page 6 
The Observer/Meg Kowalski 
Frying the brain! 

Becky Erickson, a Siegfried senior, gets a jump on studying for her final exams which mark the last tests in her college career. Finals begin Monday, and then summer vacation officially kicks off for students on Friday. 

.. GO TO OFHCER 
B'! 
1RAINING 
SCHOOL 

• 
ut your college 

• 
degree to work in the Air Force Officer Training School. 


Then, after graduating from Officer Training School, become a commissioned Air Force officer with great starting pay, complete medical and dental care, 30 days of vacation with pay per year and management opportunities. Learn if you qualify for higher education in the Air Force. Call 
CAll (219) 234-6713 FOR MORE INFORMATION. IMMEDIATE OPENINGS AVAILABLE. CAll TODAY! 

For

Hertz 

Do-lt-Yourself 
PEMSKE 

Moves Local • one way 
10 II. Vans 1411. Vans 18 II. Vans 24 II. Vans 1·2 Rooms 2-3 Rooms 4-5 Rooms · 6-8 Hooms 
Low Rates • Free Unlimited Mileage on One Way Rentals 
• Alf Condrlrontng and Aulomaltc Transmrssron • New. Clean Top·Marnlarned Models 
• Bwll·ln Loadmg Ramos • 24-Hour Emergency Road Servrce 7 Days a Week 
• Full L•ne ol Movrng Accessorres lncludrng Tow Dollres. Hand Trucks. Pads and Carlons • Free M<wong Gurde • Prolcchc>n Plans • Mosr Ma1or CrNirr Caft1S Ar.CC!'INI 


South Bend 277-0144 Mishawaka 234-9665 
"Ask for your 10% student discount" 
For One Way Reservalions. Call 1-800-222-0277 
Penske Truck Leas1ng Co 1991 
The Observer 

Friday, May 1 , 1992 
Undergrad education addressed 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT Basics" report, the Board of of the committee. The commit­
News Writer Trustees requested that the tee will continue the Academic Council of the momentum initiated by the University examine the issue "Back to Basics" report,
As Notre Dame becomes a more closely. Friedewald said. "We want to "National Catholic Research show the Administration that 
University," concerned students, A committee comprised of this is an issue which concerns faculty and administrators are faculty members, administra­all students." working together to ensure that tors, and a student is now being A two-year member of the 
the quality of undergraduate formed by the Academic "Back to Basics" committee, education will not suffer. 
Council that will work this Friedewald admitted that "the 
In February, student govern­summer to create a report for problem won't be solved im­ment presented the Board of the Academic Council, accord­mediately."Trustees with an extensive re­ing to Economics Professor port on the issue. In the "Back Frank Bonello, a faculty mem­She said that the committee to Basics" report, they revealed ber on the committee. will therefore monitor the situ­
that undergraduate education Stohr said that students and ation closely and issue progress was indeed suffering in the faculty must continue to put reports throughout next year. 
transition to a research univer­pressure on the University to "We want to work closely with sity, as proven by larger classes, actually act on the committees' faculty and administrators, and lower course availability, and recommendations. They must we hope they will support us, " less student-faculty interaction. also try to "keep up the aware­Friedewald continued. "If the ness of the Board of Trustees student body gets excited and 
According to Karen Stohr, and the Alumni Association," involves themselves by writing chairperson of the "Back to she added. letters to the editor or talking to Basics" committee, the re­committee members, something sponse to the report was The newly-formed Standing will get accomplished." 
greater than they expected. Committee on Undergraduate Along with Friedewald, the "The report has been well-re­Education will increase aware­committee includes freshman ceived by the Board of Trustees ness of the quality of under­Robert Bleil, sophomoresand the Board of Directors of graduate education at Notre Stephanie Gallo, Daniel the Alumni Association," Stohr Dame and apply pressure if Connolly and Timothy Callahan said. "Most agree that we are necessary, according to chair­and juniors Matt Bomberger,skimping on undergraduate ed­person Lynn Friedewald. Teri Niederstadt and Dean Sipe. 
ucation, and everyone agrees Friedewald, a sophomore in These students were recentlythat we need more faculty." the College of Arts and Letters, appointed by Student BodyIn response to the "Back to has been appointed chairperson President Greg Butrus. 




Leaving Campus? 
!~
B 


Get ..· ·.. · ....·..· ...... from Hertz Penske T1vck Rental. 
We'll give you up to $100 cash back when you rent a Hertz Penske truck. We've got everything you need to make your campus move easy-amodem, clean fleet. ..free unlimited mileage on one way moves... convenient coast-to-coast locations... a free moving guide...and all the accessories to get the job done. 
For reservations, check the Yellow Pages for the location nearest you, or call 1-800·222-0277. 

---.-----­
•.. ;-@; 


f
Leaving Campus? Up to 1100 CASH BACICI 
Hertz Penske is offering up to a $100 rebate on any one way move (rented in one city and returned to another). 
I 
Effective April 1, 1992. All coupons must be submitted by July 31, 1992. The amount of the rebate will be based on 10% of the time and mileage charges as listed on your truck rental agreement, up to a maximum of $100. 
I ~--------------------------------------------I 
~fiS ____________________________________________ 
Hertz 

arr_________________________ IIP____________ t
~An 
~MA~&MSrrl_______________________________________ 
PENSKE I 
llEimDIN -------------------llmJflNED TO_________________ 
Truck Rental I 
Mail this coupon and a copy of your rental agreement to: HERTZ PfNSKE JRUOC RENTAL • P.O. BOX 391 • llOUJE JO GREEN HIUS 
\ 
I 
l 
1 
I 
I 
' 
~ 
I 
I I 
--~------------~~~--~--------------------.------------~---­
Friday, May 1, 1992 

ND prof honored 

Special to The Observer 
Robert Schuler, director of the Radiation Laboratory and Zahm professor of radiation chemistry, has been named the first American recipient of the Maria Sklodowska-Curie Medal from the Polish Association of Radiation Research. 
Schuler received the award during the association's ninth triennial meeting held April 2-3 in Cracow, Poland. 
The Curie Medal is awarded to a prominent scientist in­volved in radiation chemistry or radiobiology research. The award commemorates Marie Curie, a Polish-born scientist who received the Nobel Prize for her discovery of radium. 
Schuler is the fifth radiation chemist to receive the medal. The first one was awarded to Lord Frederick Dainton, the current chancellor of the Uni­versity of Sheffield in England, in 1983. 
Schuler, who received his doctorate from Notre Dame in 1949, has been a radiation chemistry professor and direc­tor of the University's Radiation Laboratory since 1976. 







SENIORS! 
CELEBRATE OUR "FINAL" FINALS! 
The Observer 

S. Africa struggles .amidst unrest 



By SARAH DORAN 
News Writer 

South Africa, in its ongoing state of unrest, raises the issue of how to put together a legiti­mate government in the twenti­eth century because the country represents a microcosm of the universe, according to Peter Walshe, professor of govern­ment. 
"South Africa is the most po­larized society on the planet with the top five percent of the population owning 88 percent of the country," said Walshe in the his lecture "South Africa in Transition: Political Values and Legitimate Government." 
The 36 million inhabitants of the country are composed of 27 million Africans and three mil­lion whites while the other six million are from mixed races, he said. 
The country that has been running under its modern polit­ical structure since it was set up in 1910 by the British Par­liament, has been experiencing heavy government turmoil since the 1950s. 
The turmoil is rooted in the segregation of land that oc­curred in 1913 which allotted 87 percent of the country to the white minority and the other 13 percent to blacks, Walshe said. 
After the country was segre­gated, an industrial revolution occurred, but only within the white population, which was built upon black labor, he said. 
Three periods of unrest have occurred in the history of the current South African govern­ment, Walshe said. 
The first period of unrest was during the 1950s with the defi­ance campaign. The Black Consciousness Movement led by Stephen Biko, whose story was depicted in the film, "Cry Free­dom," was the second period of unrest in the 1970s, he said. 
According to Walshe, the cur­rent period of unrest was set off by the government regime attempting to install a black and Indian mini-parliaments in addition to the white parlia­ment in 1980. This was met with massive internal unrest which resulted in international sanctions. 
These sanctions are what fi­nally forced the South African government in 1990 to realize that it would have to change, Walshe said. 
The only way that the gov­ernment can change is by changing its participatory pro­cesses and its distribution of resources within society,Walshe added. 

"Changing the participatory processes will give an aura of legitimacy to South Africa," Walshe said. 
To amend its participatory processes, the country needs to adopt one person, one vote principle and also a bill of rights, he said. The institution of a house of representatives and of regional ethnic repre­sentation in the senate would also be good for the country, he said. 
"A society that remains polar­ized in economic terms will be a non-legitimate society," Walshe said, adding that "such a soci­ety will be ruled by force and not consent." 
In order to distribute re­sources in a positive fashion throughout the South African society, Walshe suggested pro­gressive income taxes and spe­cialized banks to help agricul­ture and other industries that are needy of investment and the institution of a national health service. 
The standard of living for the elites must be curtailed for South Africa to function under a legitimate government system based upon equality, Walshe said. 
The ISO sponsored the lecture. 

Come to the 


LAFORTUNE SENIOR MONTH STUDY BREAK 
Wednesday, May 6th 8-10 p.m. DOOLEY ROOM 
EXCEI,I,ENT PRIZES! FOOD! FUN! 
Off campus students: Sign up for the raffle at the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune 
MUST BE PRESENT TO WIN 
---------------··--·· ---­
·····---._...........-~ 
tempted to leave the Hesburgh Ubrary wl!h a book he had not Checked out. 
7 a.m. A South Bend resident re­ported that her vehicle hed been struck while it was parked in the A-15 parking 
A University employee 
<retlort!!d that his locked bicycle had been stolen from outside of the Administration Building. 
:IfJ(,... -· ..·/W!:w~:\ 
4:09 p.m. A Pa5querilla West resident 
reported receiving harassing phone calls. <::,:r.. 
·stM?/·~'·~·-···· .·! ••••,.,, 

Correction The Observer incorrectly reported details of intern­ship programs arranged by the Notre Dame Council on International Business De­velopment (NDCIBD) in an article in yesterday's edition. NDCIBD is sending delegations to Asia to arrange internships for Notre Dame students, according to President Andrew Kiel. The group hopes to establish an English school in China. The Observer regrets the errors.  
Have A Great Summer ._._.._._ ------------­ 

The Observer 

page 8 







TASK FORCE ON CULTURAL DIVERSITY 

And ifone member suffers anything, all the members suffer with it, or ifone member glories, all the members rejoice with it. 
-ICorinthians 12:26 
Introduction 
Much has been written about demographic shifts 
currently taking place in the United States. It is 
projected that by the year 2000 one-third of all high 
school aged youth will be African American, Asian 
American, Hispanic!Latino American or Native 
American. The much debated implications of these 
shifts are far reaching. The University of Notre Dame 
stands at a crossroad on the question ofits role in this 
regard, as the nation prepares for these demographic 
changes in the 21st century. The first road involves 
cosmetic changes or tinkering. The second road-that 
preferred by the Task Force-involves building on what 
has been achieved by virtue of the 1987 Provost's 
Committee on Minority Students Report, by 
undergraduate groups including Student Government 
and Students United For Respect, and by the 
commitments and accomplishments of Father Edward 
A. Malloy's first five years, and charts a course which can be distinctively Notre Dame. 
The higher education community has a vital role to play as acknowledged by national associations including the American Council on Education, the American Association of Higher Education, and the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities. Each of these organizations has devoted considerable effort to issues ofcultural diversity through conferences, publicatiDns, and other forums. In fact, 40% ofcolleges and universities nationwide have already developed programs and academic initiatives under the rubric of cultural diversity or multiculturalism. The quality of form and substance, however, varies widely. Notre Dame is certainly counted among the universities that have taken such steps. The steps, however, represent only the beginning of where we need to go. 
Cultural Diversity at Notre Dame, From 1988 to the Present 
Increase in minority presence 
On February 22, 1988, Father Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, announced a University-wide plan to increase minorities at Notre Dame. The University recognized a pattern of decreasing minority enrollment in higher education, particularly among African Americans and Hispanics, as a national problem with far reaching consequences. The administration expressed its desire to create a University community enriched by increased minority presence among students, faculty and administrators. 
The plan was comprehensive, and included provisions for the appointment of a senior administrator responsible for its general implementation, the designation of coordinators with special responsibilities in specific areas, the recruitment and retention of significant numbers of minority undergraduate students, the development ofan environment supportive and friendly to increased minority presence on campus, and the dedication of special funds to achieve these goals (cf. Minority Report press release, February 22, 1988). 
What were the results? 
The goal of a 15% of minority presence was reached for the incoming freshman class in 1989. Twelve million dollars was added to the eight million dollars then available in a special endowment fund set aside for minority scholarships. The goal of hiring fourteen minority faculty for the four colleges and the Law School was met, though in some cases, and according to the provisions of the announcement, through the selection of women. Cultural celebrations and a "Year of Cultural Diversity" were planned and took place in support of this effort. 
Two events took place in the 1990-91 academic year which captured the attention of the University community. The first was the mobilization of the Students United for Respect (SUFR). SUFR publicized 

Final Report 
issues which, from their perspective, ifleft unchecked, 
would imperil the broader University goals of cultural 
diversity. The second event was Father Malloy's open 
letter on cultural diversity to the Notre Dame 
Community. 
Students United for Respect (SUFR) 
During the 1990-1991 academic year, a group of 
minority students formed an organization called 
"Students United for Respect" to publicize what they 
perceived to be a lack of commitment on the part of the 
University to their special situation. They included 
among their demands the granting of tenure to current 
minority faculty and additional minority faculty hiring, 
the construction of a multicultural center, and 
additional and enhanced financial aid packages for 
minority students. SUFR's activities for the academic 
year included a one day occupation of the Office of the 
Registrar. 
In April, 1991, SUFR sought and received official recognition as a student organization, improvements were made in financial aid need-based packages including assistance with travel expenses, books and related expenditures and reimbursement of application fees. Administration commitments included the issuance of a special letter to the community on the status of cultural diversity on the Notre Dame campus and the establishment of a Task Force on cultural diversity to study the situation and make recommendations. 
Father Malloy's Letter to the University Community 
Father Malloy's April, 1991letter referred to achievements in the area ofcultural diversity during the first four years of his administration, including an increase from $ 8 to $ 20 million dollars in the endowment funds for financial aid to minority students, a minority faculty development program, a summer faculty conference focusing on course revisions to broaden the cultural diversity of the curriculum, the setting and achievement of a goal of minority recruitment among undergraduate students of 15%, and the development of the Black Alumni of Notre Dame. 
Father Malloy also indicated areas ofconcern in his letter, including dispelling the notion that ethnic minority students are at Notre Dame under 'false pretenses' rather than on their own merits, the development and promotion oflasting friendships across ethnic lines, and the differences in recognition and acceptance afforded student athletes from ethnic minorities as opposed to their ethnic peers. 
Membership on the Task Force 
In selecting membership for the task force, Father 
Malloy solicited recommendations from minority 
undergraduate student groups and organizations, 
including SUFR, the officers and the deans. 
The task force was comprised of the following persons: Roland B. Smith, Jr. and Richard V. Warner, C.S.C., co­chairs; from the administration and staff, Angie R. Chamblee, Maria M. Fuentes, Demetrius H. Marlowe, Thomas H. McDermott, C.S.C., Roger Mullins and Kevin 
M. Rooney; from the faculty, Sharon L. O'Brien, Patricia 
A. O'Hara, Jean M. A. Porter, F. Clark Power, Thomas 
G. Smith and Arvind Varma; from the students, Michael 
E. Allen, Joseph 0. Blanco, Deswood C. Etsitty, Nicole J. Farmer, Mari Ishibashi, Yolanda Knight, Richard D. Ruiz, Max L. Siegel and Joseph R. Wilson; student research assistant, Kenya D. Johnson. 
Definition of Terms 

It is clear that there is a varying understanding and use of the terms "minority" and "cultural diversity" throughout the University. The prevalent interpretation of "cultural diversity" and "affirmative action" on campus is that it means African American. As indicated by the questionnaires sent to 146 University units, the most commonly understood connotation ofcultural diversity is the hiring of people ofcolor. Few people/units interpret the terms to include understanding of, support for, or knowledge of differing cultures and groups. 
For the purposes of its work, the committee used the following definition ofcultural diversity: 
Cultural Diversity, as a stated goal of the University of Notre Dame, means that the University is convinced that it will most effectively carry out its mission of Catholic higher education in an atmosphere where the faculty, students, and staffof the institution are drawn from the full range of ethnic and cultural traditions represented within our society. Cultural Diversity is not simply a set of numbers tabulating the underrepresented ethnic or racial groups present at the University. It is that and much more. It is a way of thinking, seeing and behaving which demonstrates an understanding and respect for all ethnic and cultural traditions. Cultural Diversity signifies the University's commitment to an atmosphere of hospitality and dialogue where these various traditions can together contribute to a sharing of perspectives in the pursuit of truth. It is the recognition of the contributions-both individual and collective-of those ethnic or racial groups which have been legislatively and socially devalued. It is the recognition and celebration of the cultural differences within our University community. 

The Mission Statement 
We reviewed various mission statements throughout the University, including those found in undergraduate and graduate bulletins, academic departmental descriptions as they appear in the undergraduate and graduate bulletins, brochures from admissions and student affairs, the PACE report, etc. There is no consistent statement obvious in the various University self­descriptions and bulletins which makes clear the commitment to cultural diversity. 
In order to assist the University in its desire to build a culturally diverse community, we believe that the University's mission statement(s) should include specific reference to the importance of developing an environment that promotes and upholds values of cultural diversity among the students, faculty and staff. Such an environment should extend not only to the educational or academic aspects of the University but should also include its traditions and receive preferential attention in the allocation of resources. 
We believe that it is imperative that the University's 
commitment to cultural diversity be well enunciated in 
all mission statements, and offer the following 
suggestion to the University and the Colloquy for the 
Year 2000: 
The University of Notre Dame was founded on, and continues to be directed by, the insights of the Catholic faith. That faith is most compelling in its openness to every culture, reverence for all peoples, and in its conviction that every language can speak of the Holy. It is therefore constitutive to Notre Dame's Catholic character that it vigorously seek a culturally diverse community offaculty, students, and staff, where all are welcome and all are enriched. 
We recommend: 
-that every department I unit in the University 
rewrite bulletins and procedures to reflect this 
commitment; 
-that the University adopt a universal definition of "minority" which would include those groups traditionally underrepresented within American society. 

Curriculum 

Members of the task force spoke with the liaison with the Arts and Letters committee which is looking into the issue ofan Arts and Letters requirement on cultural diversity. There was also an analysis ofgeneral questionnaires sent to all units, including departments, and meetings with the dean of the Freshman Year of Studies and others. 
The offering ofcourses pertinent to cultural diversity cannot be accomplished without the hiring of more minority faculty, in particular, and the hiring ofmore faculty in general so as to allow faculty competent to teach in these areas the time to teach such courses. 
We recommend: 
-that the University hire more minority faculty; 
-that departments provide space for courses on cultural diversity to be offered by existing faculty; 
-~~---~--~-~------~------­


The Observer a e9 
-that each academic department review its specific courses with the goal ofexpanding informational content I readings and methodologies by non­traditional authors; 
-that each department publish a list ofcourses 
which fall under the rubric ofcultural diversity; 
-that the Freshman Year consider providing 
culturally diverse courses in Freshman seminar 
and writing courses; 
-that summer funding for course development in 
the area ofcultural diversity be continued; 
-that the Provost's Advisory Committee devote at least one meeting each year to presentations and discussions on areas ofcultural diversity; 
-that the Provost's Advisory Committee institute an information dissemination process and encourage workshops that will assist the members ofthe academic community in this regard. We further recommend that the Provost's Advisory Committee invite experts in the area ofcultural diversity to assist in this process. 
Recruitment of a More Culturally Diverse Undergraduate Student Body 
Admissions 
Task force members interviewed the director of 
undergraduate admissions and reviewed the 1991-92 
minority recruitment plan. 
The University has met and exceeded its established goal, set in 1988, of recruiting an entering class of freshmen in which 15% were students ofcolor. Minority students represent 14% of the student body in 1991-92. We believe the University is hampered in attracting and retaining a greater minority student enrollment by its lack offunding resources and support services. 
It is imperative for the success of this effort that 
increased financial resources be allocated to assist in 
recruiting and retaining socio-economically 
disadvantaged students. In an effort to provide an aid 
package competitive with peer institutions, the 
University will have to increase its financial aid 
resources and improve its academic and non-academic 
support services. 
We recommend: 
-that,the Office of Undergraduate Admissions continue its current effort to recruit a diverse student body; 
-that the University establish enrollment goals and provide the financial resources necessary to reach the goals while developing strategies to maintain the enrollment ofethnic minorities who have been traditionally and historically disadvantaged economically and under­represented. 
Financial aid 
We reflected upon information received from interviews with the director offinancial aid and the director of undergraduate admissions, and from surveys completed by the commanders of the ROTC units. 
There has been clear progress in the area ofenhancing financial aid since the proclamation ofthe 1988 plan. The task force recognizes the clear priority ofthe Office of University Relations and ofcertain donors in support of these concerns. Since 1990, a new financial aid plan has provided reliable aid packages to the present freshman and sophomores, under the categories of Notre Dame scholars (top 775 of admitted students) and Holy Cross grant nominees (most African Americans, Native Americans and Hispanics, some clearly disadvantaged Asian Americans and a few others from uniquely disadvantaged backgrounds.) This package was enhanced in 1991. 
Through the use of Stafford and Perkins loans and with the possibility of$ 1,800.00 available from campus employment, each student is expected to provide $ 6,450.00 in self-help. For current juniors and seniors (1991-92), this number can be even higher. This self-help expectation can seem to be a particularly large requirement to families of minority and/or disadvantaged students, particularly in comparison to packages put together by similar institutions with whom Notre Dame competes. 
We recommend: 
-that the University continue to maintain as a highest priority the securing offunds for scholarships, particularly as an essential component ofaggressive minority recruitment, and that the present system ofproviding reliable financial packages over the entire four years of need be maintained; 
-that financial resources be sought to complete the funding ofROTC scholarships for some minority students who demonstrate unmet financial need. 
Recruitment of a More Culturally Diverse Faculty 
Task force members reviewed the 1990-91 Academic 
Affirmative Action Report, and studied an analysis of 
faculty positions by ethnicity for 1991-92, provided by 
Office of Institutional Research. We also interviewed 
the associate provost designated by the provost to 
oversee faculty affirmative action issues, and the chair 
of the Academic Affirmative Action Committee. 
Affirmative action seems to be a genuine priority for the 
individual colleges, as expressed by the deans, and for 
the University as a whole, as stated by the provost. 
Some progress has been made within certain academic 
units. 
The tenured and tenured track faculty increased from 566 to 641 over the past seven years. Over the same period of time, and including permanent residents as well as United States citizens from traditionally underrepresented groups within American society, minority faculty increased from 51 to 70. The number of African American faculty has varied widely (from a low of2 in 1987-88 to a high of 7 in 1984-85 and in 1990-91). Asians and Asian Americans have increased from 32 to 41 and Hispanics and Hispanic Americans have increased from 12 to 22. As these figures indicate, it is only when permanent residents are included that a minimal increase in minority faculty can be shown. Two approaches exist for the hiring of minority faculty: they can be hired widely throughout the University or efforts can be concentrated in certain departments so as to create a critical mass. The pros and cons ofeach approach should be analyzed for its advantages and disadvantages. 
As indicated in the 1990-91 Academic Affirmative Action Report, each level within the University points to other levels as obstacles to attaining affirmative action goals. Efforts to identifY bottlenecks within the system have led to the conclusion that no one level is responsible for impeding progress. Every administrative unit must take responsibility for ensuring progress towards the goal. The affirmative action commitment "must be constantly reexamined and reemphasized at all levels" (1990-91 report of the Academic Affirmative Action Committee). 
We recommend: 
-an affirmation ofthe recommendations ofthe 
1991-92 Academic Affirmative Action Committee 
report, which are included as an appendix to this 
report; 
-that the University focus affirmative action 
recruiting efforts on the hiring oftraditionally underrepresented groups; 
-that the University set aside funds for the hiring ofminority faculty; 
-that given the University's historical relationship with Native Americans, every effort should be made to hire more Native American faculty and staff Native American students are currently without any Native American role models or mentors. 
Undergraduate Support Services· Academic 
Members of the task force interviewed and surveyed the deans ofthe Colleges and ofFreshman Year about the various support services in place for undergraduates. 
The Balfour-Hesburgh Scholars program, which has been in existence for five years has been effective in assisting students in their overall adjustment to college life and has had a positive influence in retention rates in the College of Science. Retention efforts are not as effective in the College of Engineering. The AEtna Summer program has only been in existence for one year, and will continue for two more years. Future funding for the AEtna program is currently unsecured. 
No formal support or mentoring programs currently exist in the Colleges of Science, Business Administration or Arts and Letters. Such programs would be beneficial to all students, including minority undergraduates. 
CANDAX McNair is the short designation for the cooperative structure which includes Clark Atlanta University, Notre Dame, and Xavier University. Its purpose is to identifY, encourage and prepare current undergraduates from underrepresented groups to pursue doctoral degrees. An interview was conducted with the associate provost who serves as director ofInternational Programs. Programs are available in fifteen countries for undergraduates and three for graduate students, with a total of 500 students participating. 
Participation by African American students in overseas programs is limited due to financial and cultural reasons. Hispanic students are particularly attracted to the programs in Toledo, Spain and Mexico City, and also participate in the full variety ofother programs. 
There are currently only three programs in Third World countries (Chile, Egypt and Mexico). Some of the reasons for this are because it is difficult to organize programs in the developing world due to worries about political instability, living conditions, and standards of participating schools. 
We recommend: 
-that the Minority Engineering Program offerings, which are running on soft money, be closely monitored for their success and possible imitation in other colleges; 
-that there be an enhancement ofacademic 
support beyond the Freshman Year -open to all 
students -with special sensitivity to minority 
students, especially in the Colleges ofArts and 
Letters, Science and Business Administration; 
-that there be a clear articulation from the Office 
ofthe Provost that these efforts are a priority not 
only in theory but in practice; 
-that outreach programs with the South Bend 
Community be developed, using the Upward 
Bound model, which can bring students to campus 
for an enrichment experience; 
-that curriculum development workshops, for 
administrators, teachers and counselors, be 
developed to explain the expectations colleges have 
for incoming students, and to share the concerns 
they have in preparing students for college; 
-that permanent fu'!-ding be sought for existing 
programs ofsupport, including AEtna and the 
Minority Engineering Program; 
-that the curriculum ofthe College ofEngineering be examined in order to provide more flexibility (i.e. offer more offsequence courses); 
-that each ofthe colleges designate a representative group offaculty to serve as resources for the CANDAX McNair and other programs; 
-that each college formalize its efforts to identify summer research and graduate study opportunities for promising minority students; 
-that efforts be made to find financial help for minority students to participate in international programs; 
-that strong efforts be made to open up programs in the developing world, for example, in Nairobi, Kenya. 
Undergraduate Support Services · Office of Student Affairs • Residentiality 
A data gathering process took place which included 25 
page 10 The Observer Friday, May1, 1992 
open hearings in residence halls and meetings with three minority student groups. Nineteen reports were submitted which contained summaries of these meetings. The purpose of these hearings was to inform the University community on the work of the Task Force and to provide an opportunity for those in attendance to offer comments and make suggestions about issues and concerns related to cultural diversity at Notre Dame. 
Although the Office of Student Residences changed several years ago to a largely computerized system for making housing assignments, it is not clear to undergraduate students how these assignments are made during the freshman year for ethnic minorities and others. Undergraduate students who have had the opportunity to room with an ethnic minority student claimed it had a positive effect on their subsequent attitude toward others from different ethnic backgrounds. 
There seems to be a general lack of experience with, education in and understanding of cultural diversity. We believe that it is important for the University to support programs, events and activities that are designed to help individuals increase their intellectual, social, personal and moral skills and capabilities in this area. 
The University has received a Lilly Grant for programming which promises to have an impact on the campus atmosphere, most particularly in providing programming for the residence hall staffs and students, and for the people working in the Office of Student Affairs. However, since this is only a three year program, plans will have to be made to assure adequate financing for these efforts when Lilly funding lapses. 
The following recommendations address areas and 
issues raised as important ones in the conversations 
which took place during these hearings. 
We recommend: 
-that the Office ofStudent Residences continue to 
manage diversity in freshman housing 
assignments so as to maximize the opportunity for 
inter-racial room assignments; 
-that the Office ofStudent Affairs review on a 
regular basis the system by which rooms are assigned to incoming students; 
-that the Office ofStudent Affairs, in cooperation with all rectors, develop policies, programs and activities that will assist in creating an environment within the residence halls that promotes and upholds cultural diversity values. It is vital to incorporate a session on ethnic relationships, as they relate to residential life, early in every freshman's experience within the residence hall; 
-that the Office ofStudent Affairs, in conjunction 
with the rectors, develop criteria to evaluate the effectiveness ofcultural diversity programming in 
residential life. 
-that the annual review ofrectors include an evaluation ofcultural diversity programming, and that it incorporate a measure ofthe sensitivity 
which the rector and hall staffmembers show toward all students in the hall, including minority students; 
-that these criteria continue to be used in the selection process ofrectors and ofhall staff; 
-that the Office ofStudent Affairs assume 
responsibility for implementing a comprehensive educational program that would include, but not be exclusive to, members ofthe residential life administrative staff; 
-that the Office ofStudent Affairs, in collaboration with the rectors and the Office ofMinority Student Affairs, develop strategies and methods for recruiting ethnic minorities for the Office of Student Affairs itselfand for hall staff; 
Undergraduate Support Services· Office of Student Affairs 
The Office ofMinority Student Affairs 
Interviews were conducted with the director and the assistant director ofthe Office of Minority Student Affairs, as well as with several students of color, about the goals, activities and difficulties experienced in the 
office. 
Both the director, an Mrican American, and the 
assistant director, a Hispanic, are new this year, so this 
has been a period of learning about the job and its 
possibilities. The Office of Student Affairs added a new 
assistant vice president to its senior staff in the fall of 
1991. An Mrican American was hired to fill this 
position. Among other responsibilities, this person 
supervises the Office of Minority Student Affairs. 
There is a perceived reality on campus that the issues of minority affairs and cultural diversity are basically about Mrican American issues, and the Office is seeking to respond to this perception. The basic concern is that with approximately 1,100 students to attend to, there is not yet adequate funding for equipment and supplies, and there is a need for expansion of staff. 
One of the areas which the task force intended to study was the advisability and feasibility of establishing a multicultural center at Notre Dame. Because of time constraints and the complexity of the issue, and because there are so many different and even opposing viewpoints with regard to this matter, it was not possible for this study to be completed in time for inclusion in this report. The members of the task force, however, do feel that this is an important issue and one that merits further in depth study before a recommendation can be made to the appropriate authorities. 
We recommend: 
-that the Office ofMinority Student Affairs receive the level offinancial support required to service adequately the expanded population for which it is responsible; 
-that the Office ofMinority Student Affairs work closely with the Office ofStudent Affairs in further development ofprograms to enhance the atmosphere on campus in relation to cultural diversity; 
-that the Office ofMinority Student Affairs be a 
critical component ofthe Lilly Programming; 
-that a special ad hoc committee be appointed to study the advisability and feasibility of establishing a "multicultural center." 
The University Counseling Center 
Cultural diversity amongst African Americans, Native Americans, Hispanics, Asian Americans and international students is sufficiently complex to suggest the need for counselors of color. Recent experience has indicated that a higher percentage of minority students tend to use the services of the University Counseling Center than the percentage of other comparable groups. This usage increases when counselors of color are available at the University Counseling Center. 
We recommend: 
-that the University Counseling Center hire more minority counselors; 
-that the University Counseling Center utilize more workshops to educate all counselors on the needs and cultures ofall students; 
-that greater outreach be done to encourage greater use ofthe University Counseling Center by culturally diverse students. 
Campus Ministry 
Campus Ministry has made an attempt in recent years to be more attentive to the concerns of students of faith traditions other than Catholic. Ecumenical prayer services are held five or six times a year. Lists of local churches are made available to students of other faith traditions and transportation is provided by many churches. Regular contact and support is maintained with the several prayer groups on campus, and a retreat opportunity for non-Catholic Christians was provided this year. The Campus Ministry staff includes two Asian Americans and one African American. 
The University currently has seven hundred international students from seventy countries. These and U.S. born students (and faculty and staff) represent many faiths and sects, including Buddhist, Hindu, Moslem, Jewish, and Protestant. 
We recommend: -that consideration ought to be given again to providing space for worship for students ofother 
faith traditions. 
Office of Career Placement Services 
The Office of Career Placement Services has integrated into its mission statement the goals of cultural diversity. To date, the office has excluded four companies from interviewing at Notre Dame because of their failure to uphold the office's standards in this regard. The office has also sponsored in-house training sessions. 
Graduate Program: Recruitment, Financial Aid, Support Services 
Interviews were conducted with the director of 
admissions of the Graduate School, the Law School, and 
with the director of M.B.A. program. 
Between 1986 and 1991, 3.5% of the doctorate degrees awarded at Notre Dame went to minorities -one Mrican American, one American Indian, four Asian Americans, and nine Hispanics. The number of Hispanics receiving degrees at Notre Dame is due in large part to the Patricia Roberts Harris Fellowships Program. Funded by the United States Department of Education, the program was designed by Notre Dame to provide assistance to Hispanic graduate students. 
The University has accomplished little in the area of minority graduate recruitment, due to the illness of the graduate school minority recruiter. The Graduate School has informal links with Xavier and Clark Atlanta, but no formal links with any colleges graduating large numbers of minority students. Outside of this, however, there is no network to bring minority students to Notre Dame. 
The lack of minority faculty has inhibited recruitment 
and retention of minority graduate students. There is 
rhetoric, but no directives from the top administration 
for departments to recruit minority graduate students 
seriously. This is important since departments make 
their own admission decisions. 
The Graduate School currently maintains no statistics on the retention rates of minority graduate students, 
thereby making it very difficult to assess the problem. The lack of data on graduate students from faith 
traditions other than Catholicism make it difficult to 
assess the religious needs of post-baccalaureate students. There is also no clear definition of"minority graduate student." 
We believe that the commitment to increasing and 
retaining minority enrollment at the graduate level 
must come from the top down and be communicated throughout the institution. 
We recommend: 
-that the Graduate School work more closely with individual departments in the recruitment and retention ofminority graduate students; 
-that the Graduate School increase the number of fellowships funded at a competitive amount for minority graduate students; 
-that the University adopt a clear and consistent definition of"minority" for use in graduate school funding procedures; 
-that the University maintain adequate statistics on retention rates ofminority graduate students; 
-that the University continue to support the International Institute ofPeace Studies Program. 
University Committees which Review Affirmative Action Issues 
Academic Affirmative Action Committee 
Members of the task force interviewed the liaison with the Office ofthe Provost and the chair of the Academic Affirmative Action Committee, and reviewed reports of the past five years. 
In the last three years, the committee has become much more proactive than previously when its function was simply to convey statistics to the Office of the Provost. There was a request from the committee, supported by the Office of the Provost, that each department formulate its own affirmative action policy. The committee is working under a vague and undefined 
Friday, May1, 1992 The Observer page11 
mandate. With its increased visibility amongst the faculty, it is being asked to intervene and investigate issues as they arise. The committee has had to decline these requests, given its lack of a clear mandate. 
There is little, to no, interaction and coordination between the faculty and staffaffirmative action committees. Some coordination does exist between the Academic Affirmative Action Committee and the Women's Committee. 
We recommend: 
-that the Academic Affirmative Action Committee be given an expanded and clearer mandate; 
-that the University support the Academic Affirmative Action Committee's recommendations as they appear in the reports from 1989-1992 (cf Appendix); 
The StaffAffirmative Action Committee 
Interviews were conducted with the associate vice president for business affairs and with the chair and some members of the Staff Affirmative Action Committee. 
In April 1990, Father Malloy re-activated the previously dormant Staff Affirmative Action Committee. 
The committee has made some attempts to increase the pool of minorities in the clerical classification. Contacts have been established with the local campus of the Indiana Vocational Technical College (Ivy Tech) to assist in identifying potential applicants from among it graduating students. The committee recently initiated a pilot co-op program with Ivy Tech to place its students in selected offices on a part time basis. In each case the department will pay half and the University will match the remainder. 
We recommend: 
-that a staffaffirmative action report similar to 
that for the faculty be published annually; 
-that the StaffAffirmative Action Committee and 
the Academic Affirmative Action Committee meet periodically to coordinate their efforts. 
-that a University-wide system ofaccountability be developed which includes performance reviews of department heads regarding affirmative action goals and the achievement ofsuch goals; 
-that annual workshops on managing diversity be 
held for all administrators and managers. 
Procedures for Handling Complaints Concerning Cultural Diversity 
There are no procedures for handling disputes between faculty and staff which arise on issues ofcultural diversity. The grievance procedure for staff members has been distributed to department heads and supervisors, but it is not clear how widely the policy is 
known to staff. 
A policy for reporting gri'evances currently exists. Alleged incidents involving students or a student and a faculty or staff member are reported to the Office of Residence Life, alleged incidents by faculty members are reported to the chair of the academic department, and alleged incidents by staff members are reported to the director of Human Resources (cf. 1991 Faculty Handbook, page 18, and 1991-93 DuLac, page 49). Specific mention of remedies or procedures for discriminatory harassment are lacking. 
We recommend: 
-that the current grievance procedure for faculty 
and staffbe expanded to include language that 
addresses discriminatory harassment and that the possibility ofa peer review panel be studied. This 
new policy should be made available in clear 
language to all present employees and to all new employees as a part oftheir orientation; 
-that the University appoint an ombudsperson to · discuss complaints in the area ofcultural diversity with persons who feel they have been aggrieved. This person should not be an administrator and should be recognized as a man or woman sensitive to the issues related to cultural diversity. 
Identification of Responsibility within the University for Cultural Diversity Issues 
The task force attempted to determine current practices and solicit recommendations by sending an open-ended questionnaire to approximately 150 departments and units throughout the University. 
The questions asked were: 
1) Please list, and briefly explain, current policies relating to issues ofcultural diversity and affirmative action within your department/area; and 
2) Please list, and briefly explain, any future plans or suggested policies which you intend to implement, or would recommend to the Committee on Cultural Diversity for follow-up. 
Seventy-four of 146 departments/units responded. The majority interpreted cultural diversity and affirmative action policies to mean the hiring of people ofcolor only. Eight percent of the respondents interpreted the questionnaire as referring to non-westem and non-U.S. oriented policies. Only 7% of the departments/units indicated that they consider training and knowledge of others as important components of their department's mandate, and pursuant to this mandate, sponsored workshops, speakers, in-staff training, etc. 
The members of the task force found that the University has no official policy with regard to cultural diversity, although major statements have been issued on this topic. The University has three senior administrators who have, amongst their many responsibilities, the oversight of affirmative action issues and policies. 
We recommend: 
-that each department I unit be mandated to define its own plans for attaining cultural diversity and affirmative action objectives; 
-that the University designate specific individuals at all appropriate levels with responsibility for attaining cultural diversity objectives. This responsibility must be an integral part ofeach job description with an annual review ofperformance in this area; 
-that the Office ofInstitutional Research be adequately staffed and funded to provide appropriate data on a timely basis so that better statistics can be maintained on issues related to cultural diversity and affirmative action, and so that decisions can be made more effectively on the basis ofadequate information. 
Transitional Recommendation 
An implementation committee selected from among the members of the task force, will develop an action plan based on the recommendations contained in this report. This action plan will be completed and presented to Father Edward Malloy before September 1, 1992. 
Respectfully submitted, The Task Force on Cultural Diversity 
May 1, 1992 
APPENDIX 

Recommendations of the Academic Affirmative Action Committee 
1. 
The goal of achieving a truly diverse faculty is too important to be sacrificed to short term financial considerations. 

2. 
It is essential to recognize that quality, the maintenance of a Catholic identity, and cultural diversity are co-equal priorities of the University. They must not be seen as in conflict with one another, or used as excuses for lack of progress in one area or another. 


3. 
The University needs to acknowledge that the creation of a truly diverse faculty is not simply a matter of achieving percentages. It also entails the creation of an atmosphere in which women and members of all ethnic groups feel welcome and part of the whole community. 

4. 
The University needs to reaffirm on a regular basis its commitment to affirmative action and to state publicly that it is one of the highest priorities of the institution. 

5. 
The administration should clarify its procedures and funding methods for implementing and improving affirmative action hires and retention. 

6. 
Achieving faculty diversity should be carefully factored into the University's larger allocation of budgetary resources, both for the hiring of new faculty and the retention of existing faculty. 

7. 
Deans and departments should continue to be pressed administratively to maintain diversity as a high priority in hiring decisions. 

8. 
In order to develop and recruit women and minority candidates, special fellowships, post­doctoral appointments, and visiting faculty positions should be targeted at these underrepresented groups. 

9. 
Issues offamily, particularly as they affect the retention of women, continue to be a pressing concern. Areas which still need attention include a spousal hiring policy and the provision of child care facilities. 

10. 
The creation of a truly diverse faculty should be regularly and publicly reasserted as a high priority of each of the colleges. Departmental chairs and appointment and promotion committees should be regularly reminded ofthe importance of generating a list of candidates which reflects the diversity of the availability pool. 

11. 
Departments should be encouraged to show a certain amount of flexibility in respect to defining their particular sub-disciplinary needs when these needs act as impediments to the achievement of affirmative action goals. 

12. 
Economic resources in the form offaculty lines and visiting positions should continue to h,_e allocated so as to encourage and assist d~partments in achieving affirmative action goals. 

13. 
Affirmative action goals and strategies should be clearly defined and be part of all appointment and promotion considerations. 

14. 
Actions should be taken to insure that, whenever a search is conducted, the candidate list reflects the diversity of the larger population. Networking and the consultation of minority vita data banks should be used to expand the candidate pool to include women and minorities. 

15. 
An effort should be made to incorporate women and minority faculty interdepartmental governance, including participation in searches, curriculum development, and appointment and promotion decisions. 

16. 
Efforts should be made to provide faculty guidance and resources to encourage and support promising female and minority undergraduates to pursue an academic career. 




page 12 The Observer Friday, May 1, 1992 
One counselor, from South Bend's St. Joseph's High School, told the committee that the 

Happy

financial aid situation hurts NO's recruiting. 

USED C-LUB SALE 
" 'Many excellent and highly qualified students cannot con­

Birthday

sider Notre Dame because of $3.00 each the costs,' " the report quotes the St. Joseph's counselor as 
saying. SATURDAY, MAY 2 


Colleen!

According to the report the lack of available financial aid at 
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP
ND is driving many prospective students to other colleges that 
,Love, Mom, 

can offer them more aid. 
6:00AM -7:00PM
"In the long run," thP report says, "Notre Dame may very 
Dad& 

well be undermining its own ef­
WHILE THEY LAST 
forts to improve the caliber of its students." 

Bridget 

UNUSUAL SUMMER JOB ON CAMPUS 
WNDU neecb a vacation reBel technician for swnmer employment from Ma)' through Septelllher to instaU, 




Notre Dame 
operate, maintain, and repair radio, televiaion, cable, and utellite equlpmeat. Tbb b ideal for a technicaU)'·IIIinded 8Cience/engineer rtudent with a know-ledge of electric:it,. and electronia. The position is for up to 40 boun per 
LACROSSE 
week, includes 8hlttwork, and requires a vaDd driver's Ucen8e with Co........-cial endonement. Pleue appl)' at the WNDU Studios 

Fighting 
Irish
Why take your winter clothes home for 
TAKE A STUDY BREAK AND 

the summer? 
WE'LL PROVIDE THE ICE CREAM!! 
Just pick up a storage box 
NOTRE DAME 
at Ziker Cleaners and fill it with your winter clothes. Then return the box to Zikers 
vs 
and your clothes will be cleaned and stored on hangers in our moth-proof vault all summer 

MICHIGAN STATE
and ready for you when you return in the Fall. Friday, May 1 
t Low cost storage t No payment until Fall 7:30pm
t Protection from t More closet s~ce for moths/fire/theft your summer things 
Krause Stadium 
Two Locations Near Campus! 
HELP CHEER THE IRISH TO AN 
207 us 31 (across from Bob Evans) 
NCAA TOURNAMENT BID 
272-8093 Ironwood at South Bend Ave. 
THE FIRST 600 STUDENTS
(next to Martin's) Greenwood Shopping Center 
WILL GET FREE ICE CREAM 
272-9461 



Report 
continued from page 1 
$50 million was raised in 
financial aid endowment, 
falling short of its goal by $10 
million, the report said. 
According to Daniel Reagan of the Development Office, the goal was not met because "the University had made many other priorities, and financial aid did not emerge as the most important priority until the middle of the campaign when money for professorships and buildings was at hand." 
The report also says that the cost of a Notre Dame education is increasing faster than University financial aid pack­ages and average family in­comes; in the last five years, fees for tuition, room, laundry, the 21-meal plan and other projected expenses have in­creased from $14,836 to $20,408, the report says. 
The committee sent a survey to 100 high school guidance and college counselors from all 50 states. According to the re­port, only one-third of the counselors called NO's financial aid packages "good," or "satisfactory." 

GLND 
continued from page 1 
dent Affairs was not a surprise. 
"We expected it, and we're going to appeal it," he said. He views the appeals process as just one more hurdle set by administrators the group must cross. 
"We have always met every other obstacle the administra­tion has put in front of us," said Yore, and they will continue following University procedure. 
Many people on campus think the fight for recognition is the only activity of GLND/SMC, he continued, but the group "has as complete an agenda as any student group on campus." 
They sponsor events, orga­nize support groups and hold regular meetings, he said. 
Although the group will con­tinue to operate as normal, Yore said, the group thinks "it is necessary in the long run to get recognition." 
Sharon Miller, a member of GLND/SMC, decided go public with her membership in the group because of the University decision to withhold recogni­tion. "I had no intention of be­coming politically involved on this campus," she said. 
Miller said that she decided to come out "because of the Ad­ministration's continual refusal to acknowledge the presence of homosexuals at Notre Dame," an act that "denies the needs of 10 percent of the student popu­lation." 
Miller expects to pay a price for her public announcement, but she said, "we are called at points in our lives to stand up for what we believe to be fun­damental rights, no matter what the personal cost." 
In a letter to the Office of Student Affairs that accompa­nied their application for recognition, GLND/SMC chal­lenged the conclusions reached in 1986 by the Administration. They cited the use of the term "sexual preference," which they said implies a choice. They be­lieve, however, that sexual ori­entation is in-born. 
They also clearly differenti­ated between sexual orientation and sexual activity. The posi­tion of the Catholic church re­garding homosexuality states that homosexual orientation is not a sin although sexual activ­ity is. 
According to their letter, "GLND/SMC is organized around sexual orientation, not activity, thus following Catholic teaching." Yore said that sex-

Diversity 
continued from page 1 
providing a selection of courses pertinent to Cultural Diversity. 
• 
That the support services include the opportunity for greater inter-racial residential­ity, a greater number of minor­ity counselors for the counsel­ing office, and the Office of Minority Affairs receives greater financial support. 

• 
That each department adapt their own policy for obtaining Cultural Diversity objectives. 


The information included in the report was compiled by hearings in residence halls, and surveys issued to department heads and other officials on campus. 
"We wanted to find out what kind of policies were in place at the departmental level and also to give people the opportunity to give suggestions about what might be done in the future," he said. 
Smith said that he was disap­pointed with the response given to the solicitations because many suggestions were not given compared to the number of surveys that were sent out. 
"Other than those that re­sponded, people simply just dido't have a sense of kinds things they could have said," Smith added. 
The implementation commit­tee assigned by the Task Force will continue to work through the summer in order to get the approved plans finalized for presentation to Malloy by September 1. 
Warner realizes that this Task Force has a long was ahead of them, but thinks they have a good foundation and a tradition of openness and concern. 
"We have to learn together how to live together," said Warner, "and if we don't then all the task forces in the world can't help us." 

ual activity is not mentioned in the charter of the group, and many other Catholic universi­ties have recognized gay and lesbian societies. 
Tyson also stated in his letter that "the needs of homosexual students ... can be met through the formal mechanisms of the University Ministry and the Uni­versity Counseling Center." Yore said, however, that "there are not the avenues out there" by which gays and lesbians can receive guidance. 

Friday, May 1,1992 The Observer page 13 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA I am a worm, sl.owly and surely Sess, Di, and Gab-the triple and DR. STAT-DR. LOVE-SQUIRE R. QUEEN of the LOVE NEST: Info on semester, year, graduate, sinking deeper into the bowels of the single ...what can I say? It's I FEAR THAT AN INFILTRATOR IS HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY 
Class summer and internship programs in the earth, putting more desolation been great. You guys are the best IN OUR MIDST. SOME ENTITY wine goddess!!!!! 
continued from page 35 
FRANK, KEVIN, RUDY AND PAUL, NO WON'T BE THE SAME WITHOUT YOU GUYS NEXT YEAR. GOOD LUCK AND ENJOY LIFE! 
-ALEX 

STOP)II DON'T THROW AWAY YOUR UNUSED PENS, PENCILS AND PAPER. DONATE THEM TO A STRUGGLING SCHOOL IN AFRICA. 
LOOK FOR THE "PROJECT PASSAGON" BOX IN YOUR DORM. 
Hey Erin, 
Remember the hot dog incident? Or how about when you were 13 and idolized Debbie Dallas? Remember when you were 16 and developed the perrenial bruises on your knees ... Anyway. Happy Birthday to the junior who's only 191 
Love, Gina B. Timmy Fresh. & Jordan. 
I NEED GRADUATION TICKETS!! 
CALL GREG@ 289-5311 Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. 
raft, you are missed. 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center We're Open Everydayll! 
to the athletic dept.: your time is gonna come -led zeppelin 
to the star chamber under the dome: lyin', cheating', hurtin', that's all you seem to do -led zeppelin 
HOW WOULD I DESCRIBE FOUR YEARS UNDER THE MALLOY ADMINISTRATION? "DRIVES ME INSANE, TROUBLE'S GONNA COME TO YOU"-LED ZEPPELIN 
ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS A BABY! Young financially secure Catholic couple looking to adopt and provide a loving home to an infant. All Expenses paid. Please call collect (317) 364-0300 for more information. 
ADOPTION Childless. Christian, Couple wishes to adopt. Legal and medical paid. Call Bill and Kathy, Collect, at 219­322-8187. 
between me and the universe 
Pete, Lauren, Dannika and Colleen (and anyone else to whom this pertains): Thank you for your hard work and dedication to this rag. Congratulations on surviving this ordeal known 'higher education,' and get ready for (gasp) THE REAL WORLD!I 
Love, 
The News dept. 
P.S. Get those plaid pants ready! 
Allegro 
Now open 24 hours a day thru exam week! 
HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP!! Ride needed back to NEW JERSEY after finals. Will help pay for gas/tolls. Please call Mike at x:3526. 
NEEDED: Ride back home to Boston/New England Area. Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call Greg at x3526 
My brother is a big fan of BUSH. So satisfy his desires with a graduation ticket. Call Herbie at 272-6392. 
THE SISTER CHAIN 
Saturday 
May2 
CLUB 23 roomies ever! From "emergency plumbers" to my wigging out to awesome 21st b-day parties, this year has been a ton-a-fun. Get ready for the Annex and Marion Street, girls. It's gonna be even better! Love, Nelldog 
Sess-just keeping looking ...I bet you'll find your own "Jamal." 
Di-Good luck on finals, kidde! -Nelldog 
I Need grad tix (who doesn't) Mike B. 234-1 048 
Dear Kate, Happy belated birthday!!!! 
(And no your brother never forgets) 
Love, Steve 
You are finally 21. It's about time the Mexican can be useful for something!!! But really, HAPPY BIRTHDAY, FABIAN!!I!I! 
from your roomies 
SAINT MARY SPORTS WRITERS 
JEN GUSTAFSON CHRIS BACON EILEEN MCGUIRE KILEY COBLE MAGGIE HELLRUNG 
I can't say thanks enough have an awesome summer and Chris, good luck in Texas! 
See ya in August nicole 

CONTINUES TO ASSERT THAT HE IS DR. REDUCTIO AD ABSUR­DUM. HE WILL BE ELIMINATED BY THE KUNG FU MASTERY OF DR. INKSTER. UNITE AND KILLIII! 
"Grrr!ll! I'm going to eat you up!" 
"Oh! Please Mr. Tiger, don't eat me up, I'll give you my beautiful little Purple Shoes with Crimson Soles and Crimson Linings." 
Lady, let me take a look at you now. 
MEREDITH McCULLOUGH: Have an incredibly awesome time in London next semester. Drink lots of French wine, German beer and English ale. And, when you wonder why you wanted to leave the U.S. for a while, just think about all of us. Love (and other indoor sports). The Observer News and Accent departments. 
P.S. Can we get the queen's autograph? 
Michael, your last personal of the year. I'm so glad you have kept all of them. I hope they brought you laughter and some happiness!! You are the best!!!!!!!!! I love you !Ill 
-Renee 
Happy 22nd birthday Chris(py). I'll collect on the pitcher of beer later. 
(We'll buy you a bowl ofLender's later!) Love, Lavender and Black 
Meeting of the gay and lesbian community 734 Notre Dame ave. 9 o clock 5/1 289-8917 Greg 
P.S. Livestock provided. 
Hey Grace Boys!! Want to have sex tonight? Never gonna get it -never gonnna get it!!! 
Love always, Coby, Miss, 0, Ren & Cristen 
Meg, 
Thanks lor a great year of fun and D'ohs! I'll really miss you neX1 year, but we'll see each other again I 
I love you, Danny 
Congratulations to the Walsh soccer team lor a season well done! Especially for our goalie, the tower of power, master of disaster! Not too bad lor a team that's never practiced! Just think, neX1 year when we practice (what an idea) we'll go all the way!!!! Thanx Fitz lor being an awesome coach!!! Love, Your Walsh Teammates! 
KEN; 
WHAT IS THE DEAL WITH THESE SUBLETERS, I MEAN WHAT IS THE DEAL!!!!!!\ 
LOVE ALWAYS, [heh, heh, heh] 


..,___.,..________ _____________ ___ 
The Observer 

page 14 Friday, May 1 , 1992 
King verdict sparks nationwide protests 
(AP) -Protesters rallied na­tionwide Thursday to denounce the verdict in the Rodney King beating case, and blacks at­tacked whites in Atlanta. Black leaders demanded federal civil rights charges against the white Los Angeles officers who beat the black motorist. 
"The anger is not only in Los Angeles. The anger is all over this nation," Rep. Floyd Flake of New York said at a news conference by black lawmakers at the U.S. Capitol. "When Rodney King was on the ground getting beat, we were all on the ground getting beat." 
Demonstrations were held in cities throughout the nation. 
In contrast to the deadly scene in Los Angeles, most of the demonstrations elsewhere were peaceful. 
But in Atlanta, young blacks left a peaceful demonstration at City Hall and attacked whites at a downtown subway station. Windows were smashed and passersby were beaten. A shop­ping and entertainment com­plex was ransacked, bus service to downtown was suspended and police made numerous ar­rests. 
"This is how Rodney King felt," rioters yelled as they stomped on a white man and ripped off his shirt. 
About 15 blacks beat a white newspaper photographer and a white woman who had driven past in her car. Another white woman was beaten and kicked on the steps of a state office building. About 100 young black protesters hurled rocks at buildings and cars. Twenty people were hurt. at least one seriously, hospital officials said. 
In Northern California, sev­eral hundred demonstrators marched from the campus of the University of California at Berkeley across the Bay Bridge to San Francisco, blocking ac­cess to Interstate 80, a key commuter route. 
And protesters in San Francisco blocked the north­bound lanes of Interstate 280, another commuter route, caus­ing traffic jams. Protesters in San Jose, Calif., smashed downtown shop windows dur­ing an early morning march. 
Two students were arrested 
for fighting during a demon­
stration at a high school in Odenton, Md., where about 75 students protested by refusing to go to class. 
Fights erupted between black and white students at a Tennessee high school. Students said the fights appeared to be in response to the vNrlkt 
Work legally on short-t£rm PI'O!JIITlS: • BritiJin •Ireland • France • • Germany • l8maica • New Zeal.rd .CostiJ Rica 
CCXIlCls Work Abroad Program, the only one ot Its kind ... cuts through the rm tape! 
Council Travel 
1153 N. OMtx:m St, 2nd Aoor O"lica90, II 6061 0 

311·951-0585 

Call For A Free 199i Student Travel or Work Abroad Catalog! 
Cleveland police arrested a man who disrupted a peaceful rally by twice driving by in a van while waving a flag show­ing a swastika. Part of the crowd chased the van, but it sped away in the wrong lane of a road. 
And in Madison, Wis., some­one shattered the windshields of 34 police squad cars parked at a garage. A note at the scene said "Justice for King" and "All pigs must die." 
Few court decisions have prompted such nationwide out­pourings. Those denouncing Wednesday's verdict included black leaders, police chiefs, civil libertarians and ordinary citi­zens, all of whom said what they saw on video didn't square with the jury's decision. 
Juror: King testimony might have altered verdict 
SIMI VALLEY, Calif. (AP) ­Members of the jury that ac­quitted four white Los Angeles policemen in the beating of a black motorist said race played no part, but the verdict might have been different if the man had testified. 
One juror said she had held out for convictions. 
Jurors were interviewed by various news organizations on conditions they not be identi­fied, so it was unclear how many jurors talked about the verdict. 
"In my opinion, based on all of the evidence that was pre­sented to us, it is not a racial thing," one juror said Thursday on CNN. "I am not unhappy one Asian and one Hispanic. There were expressions of hor­ror Thursday at the rioting that following their verdicts. 

A juror interviewed by tele­phone on the "Today" show said race "had absolutely nothing to do with the incident. Had the man been white, had he been of Oriental descent, had he been anything and acted as Rodney King did, he would have been given the same treatment." 
A juror was quoted on ABC's "Nightline" as saying: "Had King been able to talk to us, the video might have been looked at differently." 
King's lawyer said the mo­torist didn't testify because he 
reached." 
The jury that acquitted the officers of assaulting Rodney King was made up of 10 whites, 

Soflle~~-pie·t~ the Honor COtle :do~sn't 
-"""t----·--'~ 
wofl(>at-·Nn~·solne 






peopl~~e no !~$er at
----· ------....,
ND. -~Reaathe:uode. 
...~"~· ...--:::: 'ji' 
Understand-It:(#Know ·it. 
HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY 
y 
TO 1)11\1 WITH A ''Y'' 
MUCH LOVE, MOM, DAD& WICKIE 
--~ 
had nothing to add to the video. A prosecutor said he didn't call King because King's memory would have been clouded by the beating and by his drinking that night. 
The juror interviewed by ABC said the verdict was influenced by all the evidence, not just the videotape of the beating. 
"I have no regrets about the verdict," the juror said. A juror interviewed on CNN also said she had no second thoughts. 
At least one juror was quoted as saying the panel had reached decisions to acquit on 10 of 11 counts the first day and spent the rest of their six days on the final count. 
verdict that could have been

with the verdict; that's the only ~~~~~~;;!~;!eii•----..II:IIC!ll:\!~,~~~~~ 

We have the best daughter in the world. Her name is Pam Hunt. 
Happy 21st Birthday! 
Lo11e, Your Family 
DdiJ" ....... 7..., 9G4J kt.IS••· -·41)e, ,_91)0 
MICHAEL DOUGLAS 










BASIC ~~~fl~~f
o.u,41,.,7,,..-
DaU,-§ ..., ?tilt 9dJ. SIJO, 1100. '711~ ••It 
THERE 
WAS 
ONLY ONE. 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=====41:,.,::':-::.,:,.::::::~~~~~~~~~~~~.;(PG~l~
~ 
Delluery & carryout Call 232-2499 
XCELLENT VALUE! 
I Buy A 1 
I Large I
I For I
I Medium I 
I Charge I I SUlgle P1ua Orden 0u1y I I carryout/Delluery I I I
I .!':!!!!!, May 31, 1992 1 



I m I 
1 = 01
I Please mendon coupon when ordertno. One coupon 11per customer per visit at partlcipadng Pizza Hut 1I restaurill\s or delivery stores. NOT VALID WITH I 
ANY OTHER COUPON. limited delivery area.
Lii J 

TrytheHotTaste ofPizzaHuf1bnight.
• 
Dine-In et 
Downtown 282-2543 
or Roseland 277-2121 
CHOICE DEAL 
I 
1Wo Medium
I 
I 1-Thpping
I 
I Pizzas 







II S1099
I 
carryout/Delluery 
I ~....... I ,, '. @ I I 
IPlease menbon coupon when orderlno. One coupon 1 I per customer per visit at participating Pizza Hut 1 restauran!s or delivery stores. NOT VALID WITH Il ANY OTHER COUPON. limited delivery area. I 
..------------· 


Friday, May 1, 1992 The Observer 
Television allows viewers to see riot live 
(AP) -While fires burned in Los Angeles, television news beamed live coverage of the ri­ots from orbiting helicopters to satellites and onto TV screens nationwide Thursday. 
Television had repeatedly shown the videotape of Rodney King being beaten by police, and it covered the trial of four police officers charged with as­sault. Now it covered the violent reaction to the policemen's acquittal. 
By daylight Thursday, the he­licopters were showing looters streaming in and out of broken storefronts, as well as overhead shots of a driver, white, pulled from his truck and stomped and beaten by two black men. 
By the time "The CBS Evening News" aired Thursday, the program had a snappy "Rage In L.A." graphic to lead in and out of its reports. 
CBS planned a special edition of "Street Stories" from Los Angeles. ABC shifted its "PrimeTime" live to the belea­guered city and devoted an­other edition of "Nightline" to the story. NBC slated a 15­minute special for 11:35 p.m. 
Bob Furnad, CNN's executive vice president for news produc­tion, said relying mainly on aerial shots of the rioting min­imized the risk that television would fuel more violence. 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Assistant News Editor Copy Editor 
To apply, submit a resume and a one page personal statement to David Kinney by Friday, May 1. For further information, contact The Observer at 239-5303. 
Trouble packing your stuff? WELL ... 


STUFF THIS 
In Whatever you can and 
Boxes Plus 
ck it and 

Nothing is too big or too small 
• Books  • Bikes  
•  Stereos  • Computers  
•  TVs  •  Clothes  


Boxes Pitts 
5622 Grape Road Wilshire Plaza 
(bcl':J&'3n 'Naccarnaw and Sam's Club) 

Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 
Call these numbers br any large item pick-up and get your Free 
Discount Coupon!!! 
283-3047 283-1022 277-5555 
"I feel safer with aerials," he said. "The video is less likely to incite an angry reaction as op­posed to a tight shot. Also, the ground camera opens up a pos­sibility of people doing things for the camera." 
News coverage boosted late night ratings Wednesday for ABC, which said its "Nightline" had a 10.5 rating and a 25 share in 25 overnight markets. NBC, by comparison, had a 7.8 rating, 19 share and CBS fol­lowed with a 4.6 rating, 13 share. Both NBC and CBS stuck to their regular programming. 
One ratings point equals 921,000 TV homes; a share is the percentage of TV sets in use that are tuned to a show in its time period. 
CNN more than tripled its ratings for the evening. In the cable universe where one rat­ings point equals 590,000 homes, CNN's coverage peaked at a 3.1 rating and a 5.0 share at 10:45 p.m. EDT. 
On a "typical" news day, CNN would average a .6 rating for that time period. For the night, CNN averaged a 1.8 rating, compared with an ordinary night's .4 to .5 average. 

•*@)>* 
Pacific Ocean 
Mobs ignited fires, beat motorists and looted stores and offices throughout Los Angeles. Some of the first 

Victor Kotowitz and Don Clement I Los Angeles Times via 
AP 

Happy 21st Laurie and Jahnelle 
! 

Don•t end up like this on 
OUr birthda Love, Your Roomies 


CELEBRATE IN STYLE I 

PLAN A PARTY: -WITH YOUR FRIENDS -FOR YOUR FRIENDS -WITH YOUR FAMILY 



CALL TODAYI 
page 15 


Riot 
continued from page 1 
Two firefighters were wounded by gunfire. 
Near downtown, a security guard was fatally shot in a gun battle with looters outside a store. 
More than 100 Korean-owned stores were burned, looted or robbed. Racial tensions between blacks and Koreans have seethed for several years. 
1\vo thousand National Guard soldiers armed with M-16 rifles and pistols headed to troubled areas as night fell, to patrol and protect firefighters, said Lt. Stanley Zezotarski, a Guard spokesman. 
Wilson ordered the deployment of 2,000 more, and hundreds of Highway Patrol officers were flown in from Northern California. 
In Phoenix, Symington said Wilson had asked the Arizona National Guard to loan California 2,000 pieces of body armor and riot gear, and airplanes to help transport troops. 
Demonstrations were held in cities across the nation to protest the acquittal of the four police officers whose beating of King was captured on videotape by an amateur photographer. 
The protests turned violent in Atlanta, where black youths smashed windows and attacked a few whites. Windows were also broken overnight in San Jose. ' 
President Bush denounced the violence and called it "tragic for our country." 
Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley announced restrictions on the sale of ammunition and gasoline. "We cannot and we will not tolerate any violence as a means to express anger," Bradley said. 
The adjoining city of Inglewood also declared an emergency and asked for National Guardsmen. 
Ten miles from downtown Los Angeles, helmeted police converged to disperse hundreds of people outside a blazing South Central Los Angeles shopping center pillaged by looters. 
_ _j 

-_.,----------~---------~~~-----~ 
The Observer Friday, May1, 1992
page 16 

c  Arthur Andersen Welcotnes the FolloW"ing University of Notre Datne and Saint Mary's College Graduates to Our Firtn Elizabeth M. Anroman Michelle C. Kerwin New Jersey Office Houston Office Christopher T. Blanco Katherine A. Klemmer New York Office Chicago Office Melinda M. Bowker Matthew M. Knott Chicago Office Chicago Office Jeffrey M. Burgis Timothy J. Linehan Chicago Office Chicago Office Heather A. Burns David J. Ludwig Boston Office Indianapolis Office Stephanie G. Bury Thomas F. Matthias New York Office Chicago Office Joseph Christaldi Matthew P. McCiimon Chicago Office Indianapolis Office Kimberly A. Coady Alex R. Miller Chicago Office Chicago Office John F. Coffey Patrick R. Murray Chicago Office Chicago Office Sheila J. Dombal Keri A. O'Connor Stamford Office New York Office Sarah K. Esterline Robert M. Quinn Chicago Office Atlanta Office Ann M. Fleming Robert J. Reich Chicago Office Denver Office James J. Gillen Kevin D. Rooney Boston Office Chicago Office Peter D. Goslin M. Margaret Shane Chicago Office Chicago Office Philip G. Groves Gregory T. Soroka Chicago Office Chicago Office Nancy L. Hau Jennifer K. Switzer Chicago Office Chicago Office Thomas R. Hester Michael W. Taufkirch Chicago Office Pittsburgh Office Daniel R. Hickle Robert F. Thomson II Chicago Office Milwaukee Office Matthew B. Jenkins Michael A. Toner Atlanta Office Philadelphia Office Amy E. Witt Chicago Office  

··--··--·· ···-----·--·· ---------·-···----·--­

-~---~~--------------~ ~--~-~--~ ----~-~,-----­


Viewpoint 
Friday, May 1, 1992 page 17 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor .....................• David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor ........•.•.•..•.. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ..Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Professor reminds there are alternatives to abortion 
Parents of suicide victim describe pain 
Bookstore referee responds to criticism 
Project Passagon works to help small African city 
MR5. !XXJN&S81.JRY, rM ACIITEU 
AWA/?13 a= 7H/3 P!<f.J8l/3M5 OF G/3N~BIA5/N TH/3 CLASS­~7lXJAY. AlMErAU.. 
llJACHCRSAR/3 ... 
BUT 'rVU Uf)(J!PV7 I UNCER.­81ftj£V/31WFfFa-5TAN!l, 8lJT fi.Jtt.'l£!0'15 CAN ITC4N7Be PR/J.JtCT TH/311< PRES-1fT TH/3 ex­fNCE. TH&'IMAKe P!JNst OF­THtM!ilflVES ~y 7HU31~5' ffARI)FOR U5 7D 5/ftF-&5l!ZM. \ 16NOR/3. I 
lHOS/3 MRL-Y, BrfPOtU£RJNG /NFWENC£5ARE 50 /MFfJRJ'/WT. IN MY~, I LCARNWFI<Q11 MYM01HffR 708/3 7CU3H AND 
/Nf?/3PtWOfiNTANI? 5TANI? ON MYWN. 
""' 

a!ut-, BY. .. UM... A!JANWNING M/3. OKA~ BAP 
8XAMP/.b. 
\ 
'Stop! Children, what's that sound? Everybody look what gain' down .. .' 
Buffalo Springfield 

Let Post-post-modernism begin, submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Dear Editor: 
As the father of an adopted daughter, I would like to point out to those who read The Observer on April 29, that there are alternatives to abortion. 
i 

Dear Editor: 
Christophe Kougnizonde walked nine miles to school, nine miles each direction. He lived in Passagon, a tiny city in the African nation of Benin, which did not have a school. Christophe and his friends wanted to learn, to study, to understand the world around them. And so they walked those eighteen miles. But so few chil­dren could go and the people of Passagon wanted something better. They wanted a school. 
In 1973 the doors opened to a three room school in Passagon. With land, nails, wood, and time that they donated them­selves, the people of Passagon built the school. The school now has nine rooms but recent economic times have been rough. The school needs sup­plies. 
Inspired by Christophe who is 
DOONESBURY 
The Women's Care Center (234-0363) offers excellent counseling on the alternatives. 
now 
Notre Dame, Pi Sigma Alpha, the government honor society, is sponsoring an end of the year materials drive known as "Project Passagon" to collect unused pens, pencils, and paper for the residents of Passagon. A collection box will be placed in each dorm, and in the Government Office from Friday, May 1, until Friday, May 8. 
I ask that you, the members of the Notre Dame family, donate your unused pens, pencils and paper to the people of Passagon. 
Look for the "Project Passagon" box in your dorm or 314 O'Shaughnessy starting this Friday. Thank you. 
Karen Weigert President, Pi Sigma Alpha April 29, 1992 William M. Fairley Professor Emeritus April 29, 1992 
a graduate student at 
Dear Editor: 
On January 2, 1992, our daughter Julie committed sui­cide at the age of 18. She had attended Notre Dame for the first two months of the fall semester, after which she was hospitalized for major depres­sion. The problem, we thought, had been identified and profes­sional assistance was being sought. It was the most heart­churning time of our lives. The loss of Julie was the beginning of devastating confusion and perplexity. 
Julie's vibrant, unselfish life was cut short by an agonizing terminal illness, an illness which can go beyond the bounds of the rational mind and turn against it. Sufferers of the chemical imbalance, a brain disease, created by clinical depression must fight, like cancer victims, not to be con­sumed by their nemesis. But, unlike victims of cancer and other terminal illnesses, termi-
Dear Editor: 
I would like to respond briefly to the comments made by Mark McGrath regarding the Bookstore Basketball tourna­ment, specifically the officiating ("Bookstore Basketball," April 27, 1992). Having had offici­ated the last six Bookstore tournaments, and the finals of the past three, I have developed a thick skin when it comes to criticism of my officiating. 
Sometimes it seems like entire dorms show up just to give the refs hell. But that's ok, it's part of the territory. So if Mr. McGrath felt that we "did not call things consistently" this year, despite far more positive 

nal victims of major depression die by suicide. And suicide, throughout history, has been surrounded by myths which leave a permanent and unre­lenting stigma on those who must confront it. In order for progressive insight toward the treatment of this illness to oc­cur, the myths must be ques­tioned and the stigma resisted. 
It is estimated that as many as 90,000 persons die in the United States annually as a re­sult of suicide. Most of what we know about depression and other mental illnesses which cause these deaths has been discovered only in the past decade. And regardless of the growing statistics, dying by one's own hands has different implications than dying by what we call "natural causes" and other terminal illnesses. Indeed, there are a very few, if any, an­swers when coming to terms with the suicide of a loved one. But regarding the death in an 
than negative comments from both winning and losing players and fans, that's his opinion, and he's entitled to it. 
But when he suggested that future Bookstore commissioners either eliminate referees (which would bring chaos to what many consider to be a very important tournament) or bringing outside referees in order to be impartial for the round of sixteen onward, I must take issue. 
This year, I reffed nine of the final fifteen games, including the two outstanding semifinal games (Just Chillin' v. Gauchos and Bridget's v. Tequila White Lightning). I have known, 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
altogether removed and iso­lated way only perpetuates the stigma and does little to stop the numbers from rising. 
Our daughter, whom we loved dearly and unconditionally, was very sick and died. Coming to terms with the illness of major depression and the stigma re­sponsible for the ruin of so many lives confronts us. To do so is to call desperately for open minds, an ability to listen-really listen-to ourselves and each other, and a responsibility to talk and communicate. 
We would like to thank the Notre Dame community for your support and compassion in these most difficult times. 
The Memorial Service was beautiful and comforting. We will never forget all you've done for us. 
Tom and Gloria Ganther 
Oshkosh, WI 
April 29,1992 
played with, and have been friends with several members of both Just Chillin' and Bridget's for years, whereas I was almost completely unfamiliar with the team members of both of the winning teams. 
If Mr. McGrath is suggesting that student referees cannot be impartial, the proof to the contrary is the results of those semi-finals. I find it offensive that Mr. McGrath could leap to the assumption, as it is, to be sure, completely unfounded, 
Pete Skiko Third-Year Law Student Off-Campus 
April 28, 1992 


Viewpoint

page 18 Friday, May 1, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Coaches, captains respond to former teammate 
be explained in greater detail. NCAA bylaws allow schools to award a maximum of five fenc­ing scholarships for men. Notre Dame, for budgetary reasons, awards only the equivalent of one scholarship in men's fenc­ing. 
This amount is presently shared by three fencers, not in­cluding Jubba. Jubba's financial aid comes directly from the Office of Financial Aid. This year, he asked for, and received, supplemental aid from the Office of the Director of Athletics. A number of fencers at Notre Dame, including starters and one of our cap­tains, receive no athletic grants­in-aid, but instead receive financial assistance directly from the Office of Financial Aid, based on their particular financial circumstances, and not at all based on the fact that they are athletes. 
In 1990, after Jubba won the national championship, he in­formed the coaches that he would be unable to return for his junior year and that he would need to transfer to an­other school. At the same time, another student-fencer applied to Notre Dame, and demon­strated financial need. This student-athlete ultimately came to Notre Dame and received aid from the Office of Financial Aid based on his demonstrated need. As things turned out, Jubba was able to return to school, and continued to be a member of the fencing team in 
Dear Editor: 
Notre Dame is losing its foun­dation, failing in its mission. In the Bulletin of Information, Fr. Malloy declares that "Notre Dame remains a vigorously Catholic institution of higher education. Notre Dame contin­ues to maintain a core curricu­lum including philosophy and theology. 
It makes special demands on the students... " (7). The University's 1991-92 Fact Sheet states that Notre Dame has kept faith with Fr. Sorin' s vision of establishing a great Catholic university in America. Let me share the realities of the facts as seen through the vision of a different Sorin, a disillusioned first year student. 
Here at Notre Dame, part of the core curriculum is a mock­ery. A professor who teaches a few sections of the Introduction to Theology course to freshman allows the class to take scant­ron exams using notes, text­books, and even prior tests. Appalled when I discovered this from a friend in the course, I asked him about class. "It's a real sleeper, people passively sit and doze; the funny thing is, they all get good grades. 
All you need to do is remem­ber to bring someone's notes, a the 1991 season. 

We cannot question Jubba's financial needs, especially in these times of economic hard­ship and student-loan cutbacks, which many in our student body can appreciate. Jubba is fortu­nate to be the recipient of a substantial financial package consisting of scholarships, loans, and employment. 
Each semester, the Office of Financial Aid allowed Jubba to register for classes without necessarily meeting his finan­cial commitment in advance. Over the summer of 1991, to assist Jubba in earning a sum­mer stipend, as well as to gain experience in his chosen field, a door was opened for him to work as a summer intern at NBC in New York on Late Night with David Letterman. When one considers the extent that the Office of Financial Aid went to Jubba's aid, Jubba was very fortunate, indeed. 
There is no question that there are a number of students, including Jubba, who can make a major contribution to many of the Olympic sports that have limited grant-in-aids, and who are also in desperate need of financial assistance. 
Jubba seems to say that he deserved additional financial aid because of his athletic suc­cess. Such an argument is se­ductive. Yet, the logical corol­lary of this argument is that an athlete should get less financial aid, or none at all, because of athletic failure. Purchasing 
copy of last year's test, and the textbook to the exam; then, just pencil in those ovals," he said. The students leave bored, un­stimulated, unchallenged, and (if they know how to use an in­dex), often with an "A." 
The only "special demands" on the students might be a #2 pencil. This is the introduction to theology at the vigorously Catholic institution of higher learning in America. Such a class endangers a university professing to be Catholic and rooted in a foundation of the theology class, part of the es­teemed core curriculum, lacks inquiry. 
Instead, it teaches one to lis­ten; recording and regurgitat­ing facts onto paper, not think­ing or questioning. With this passivity comes a stifling of po­tential ideas and blind accep­tance of established ideas. As students of an expanding University, citizens of a demo­cratic nation, and members of a Church resistant to needed change; learning by acceptance, without thinking, allows those in authority to maintain the status quo. 
Seeking the truth through vig­orous inquiry can lead to a foundation of belief, whereas the passive acceptance of ideas success should be left to pro­fessional sports, where it be­longs. 
It is not what college athletics is all about, and it is certainly not what Notre Dame athletics is all about. Moreover, the ad­ditional financial aid that our athletic director provided for Jubba this year was not awarded to him because of his NCAA championship, but was awarded solely because of his demonstrated financial need. 
In spite of the financial hard­ships that Jubba has endured, he will graduate on time this semester with his class. We are extremely pleased, and extend to him all the credit he de­serves. 
Our ultimate regret is that our friend and teammate appar­ently leaves Notre Dame with some bad memories of his time here and of a team to whom he had given much of himself to. We sincerely regret that Jubba's time at Notre Dame was not as pleasant as he, and we, had hoped it would be. 
Michael DeCicco, Head Men's 
Fencing Coach 
Yves Auriol, Assistant Men's 
Fencing Coach 
Edward Korfanty, Assistant 
Men's Fencing Coach 
David Calderhead, 1992 
Captain 
Chris Baguer, 1992 Captain 
Dinamarie Garcia, 1993 
Captain 
Grzegorz Wozniak, 1993 
Captain 
April25, 1992 
not individually discovered and tested ean breed doubt, skepti­cism, and cynicism. Rather than fostering a community of be­lievers, the class runs the risk of creating a group of skeptics and cynics. 
As Notre Dame celebrates its sesquicentennial year, the foundation upon which the University supposedly rests is eroding. I am reassured to know that not all classes are like this one, but the mere exis­tence of such a class affects the University. Already, close to a hundred freshman have been deprived of a good theology course that should be expected from a school that prides itself for being Catholic. 
I find it distressing to see peers bored and cynical with something I know has real value. The present class is an injustice to the students and an indictment of Notre Dame. The University should put into prac­tice what it preaches in its bul­letins and pamphlets, stay true to its stated mission, and assure that the undergraduate education of today reflects that mission. 
Sorin Spohn 
Flanner Hall 
Aprll29, 1992 Dear Editor: 

We, the undersigned coaches, 
captains, and captains-elect of 
the Notre Dame fencing team, 
wish to take this opportunity to 
respond to the letter to the edi­
tor by Jubba Beshin (The 
Observer. "Viewpoint," April 
16,1992) attacking the fencing 
program. 

Jubba stated in his letter that "contrary to a previous article in The Observer, I did not leave the team to concentrate on academics," and labels this a "propaganda tool used by the fencing coaches to cover up the truth." This came as a surprise to us, as on January 20, 1992, Jubba informed the coaches and a visiting alumnus that after discussing the matter with his father, it became apparent that he could not devote a minimum of three days per week to practice and still carry an overload of courses that he enrolled in to complete his graduation requirements by this spring. 
The coaches' response to this was to respect his reasons for leaving the team, especially since it dealt with academics. If he had reasons other than aca­demics for leaving the team, he did not convey them to the coaches at that time. 
Our concern with Jubba's academics stemmed from his first semester at Notre Dame, after which he was declared academically ineligible for his second semester. As Jubba cor­rectly notes, he has not been on 
Pain, anger brought on by Rodney King verdict 
academic probation since then. During his first three years with us, Jubba has averaged three days of practice per week, in order to maintain his academic standing. Needless to say, we always acceded to Jubba's desires in this regard. 
Jubba states that he was rep­rimanded for not coming to practice three days per week this season. This attendance policy was agreed to, well be­fore the season started, by the coaching staff and the captains in all four weapons. 
In order to help Jubba meet this requirement, practice be­gan at 4:30 p.m.,one half-hour later than is customary, and an additional practice was sched­uled for Saturday mornings. Even with these changes, Jubba was unable to come to practice more than one day per week. We do not intend to cast any aspersions on Jubba's reasons for only coming to practice one day a week, but we do wish to state our rationale behind the attendance policy. 
Jubba states that the coaches lied to him in terms of his fi­nancial aid. The coaches never promised Jubba anything that they felt they could not live up to. To our mutual regret, Jubba determined that the coaches' efforts were not satisfactory. 
Jubba also states that he "felt he was being lied to" in that fi­nancial aid was denied to him in favor of other fencers. The circumstances of the allocation of athletic grants-in aid need to 

Dear Editor: 

Today my African American history professor stopped in the middle of her lecture, put her head down, took a deep breath and fought back the tears welled up in her eyes. She had beP.n discussing the acquittal of police officers, who in my opinion and the opinions of all rational and conscious ob­servers of the videotaped event, brutally and unlawfully beat Rodney King in Los Angeles. 
She had also been discussing the riots occurring as the result of this ridiculous, inhumane, racist acquittal. She knew, as we all did, that Rodney King was not the only life that was to be destroyed by this injustice. We her students, put our heads down as well, and some of us also felt tears welling in our eyes. And as I sat there, I had one wish: that every single white person at Notre Dame was in that classroom. 
My professor committed a brave act today. She shared her pain with her students. She shared the hurt, anger and frustration she felt at the racist society we live in and at the racist, hate-infested history she studies and teaches. 
Maybe, if white people here who claim they don't under­stand African Americans could witness for one brief moment the pain we carry as a people, then maybe their hearts would guide them to an intellectual understanding of us and our fight for human rights in this 
country and respect for Notre 
Dame. 

Maybe then they would com­prehend our anger and under­stand why we have all black or­ganizations, sit together in the class and in the dining hall, why we don't feel part of the Notre Dame family and why so many of us risked getting kicked out of school during a sit-in last year. 
On Sunday, May 17, president Bush will be joining us to cele­brate our 150th anniversary. I am disgusted by people who re­joice in celebrating 150 years of "Catholic teaching and living" with a man who, in response to the Los Angeles beatings and the acquittals of the perpetra­tors of those horrendous crimes, he stated that "the sys­tem has worked." Disgusting! 
I am not, nor will I be in two weeks, in the mood for celebra­tion. I am not in the least bit proud to be in the sesquicen­tennial graduating class of Notre Dame. I am not at all happy to hear George Bush speak anywhere, let alone at my graduation ceremony. The only thing I'm proud of and happy about today is that on May 17th I will be able to say I survived and succeeded at this racist institution and am getting out of here! 
Judith Killen Pasquerilla West Class of '92 April 30, 1992 
~~-~--­-------~...  
Friday, May 1, 1992  Viewpoint  page 19  
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR  


Change in University's mission comes with a price 
Dear Editor: 
Notre Dame-a "National Catholic Research University." What do these words mean to you? Maybe you've never really thought about it. Your eyes may slide over that phrase when it appears on signs, brochures, and University publications. So what, you may say. Why should you care what Notre Dame chooses to call itself? 
The answer is simple. If you care about your education and the future of this University, then you should be paying very close attention to what the powers-that-be mean when they call Notre Dame a "National Catholic Research University." That relatively recent self-description signals a fundamental change in the mission of this University-a change which is being brought about at a serious cost to undergraduate education. 
For those of you who are unaware of this transition, Notre Dame is trying desper­ately to become a major re­search institution. The idea is that calling ourselves a re­search university will attract top scholars, hopefully cata­pulting Notre Dame into U.S. News and World Report's list of the top 25 national universities. 
In order to bring this about, Notre Dame has concentrated an increasing proportion of its resources on graduate pro­grams and research activities. Meanwhile, we are continually reassured that undergraduate education is as important as ever. 
If you read enough University propaganda, you might even get the impression that under­graduates are benefitting enormously from the privilege of studying at a "National Catholic Research University." Wrong, wrong, wrong. 
There are two sorts of prob­lems inherent in this new title. 
First, it is not clear that Notre Dame can follow in the foot­steps of major research univer­sities and maintain its Catholic identity. Academia is by and large secular and Notre Dame may find itself having to com­promise a great deal in order to compete on that level. Second, undergraduate education is quickly losing its importance at this "National Catholic Research University." It is the second of these problems that I wish to address here. 
No one denies that under­graduate classes are becoming larger in size and fewer in number relative to the demand for them. No one denies that faculty-student interaction in such classes is minimal at best. No one denies the absurdity of students camping out to get classes in their majors. Most of all, no one denies that these conditions are detrimental to learning. Yet somehow, University administrators are able to deny that anything needs to be done about it. 
Four years ago, a University­appointed Task Force under­took a comprehensive study of the quality of teaching at a re­search university. The commit­tee found evidence of serious and fundamental problems with teaching and undergraduate education at Notre Dame, but their recommendations were essentially disregarded by the administration. 
Other studies have reached similar conclusions. In February, Student Government presented a 71-page report on this issue to the Board of Trustees. This report, entitled "Back to Basics: Undergraduate Education at a 'National Catholic Research University"', approached the problem from the perspective of an undergraduate student, focusing especially on class size, course availability, and faculty-student interaction. 
The sixteen-member commit­tee conducted wide-spread in­terviews and surveys of faculty members and students in an ef­fort to gauge levels of dissatis­faction with the current situa­tion. Statistics from university sources were especially difficult to acquire. Several 
departments were less than forthcoming with information. Four months of repeated con­tact with the Office of Institutional Research produced no results. The general lack of cooperation made the committee's work that much more difficult. 
"Back to Basics" is a disturb­ing report. The level of dissatis­faction and frustration among students and faculty is quite high. The vast majority of stu­dent comments from the sur­veys were negative. Surprisingly high numbers of faculty members disagree with the way in which this "National Catholic Research University" is being brought about. The findings can be summarized in three main points. 
First, the University does not employ enough faculty to meet undergraduate teaching obliga­tions. After reducing average teaching loads, the administra­tion failed to hire enough fac­ulty to compensate undergrad­uates for the lost classes. 
Second, the University has ig­nored the fact that the increas­ing enrollment of women is at least partially responsible for the crisis in the College of Arts and Letters. Over half of women enter Arts and Letters, compared to only one-third of men. Administrators have ei­ther not noticed or disregarded this factor. 
Third, the University does not do enough to promote and re­ward teaching excellence. A full 55 percent of faculty members surveyed agree with this state­ment. Rhetoric about the im­portance of teaching is not matched by tangible efforts to support and improve teaching skills. 
There can be no doubt that undergraduate education on this campus is suffering as a result of this transition to a "National Catholic Research University." Numerous faculty members and administrators have opposed this claim by ar­guing that research and teach­ing are not mutually exclusive, that better researchers make better teachers. 
"Back to Basics" does not contest this point. Talent is not finite with respect to either one. On the other hand, faculty time and resources are finite. If a given faculty member spends more time on research, he or she will inevitably spend less time in the classroom. And when the University refuses to hire enough faculty to compen­sate for this loss, undergradu­ates suffer. 
Administrators at Notre Dame seem to be under the illusion that they can have a research University and a high-quality undergraduate program with­out spending any more money. 
Notre Dame spends far less per student than any other in­stitution with which it compares itself. According to U.S. News and World Report, Notre Dame spends an average of $18,852 per student per year. In contrast, Stanford spends $72,551. Harvard spends $50,677 and Duke spends $40,229. Granted, these num­bers must be considered in light of different tuition costs and different types of programs of­fered. What is truly shocking, however, is the discovery that this "research" University spends less per student than liberal arts colleges without expensive graduate programs and equipment costs. 
Swarthmore spends $30,763 per student. Amherst spends $28,841 and Williams College spends $27,886. Notre Dame may allocate its money in a more efficient manner than these other schools, but it is certainly not that resourceful. 
Undergraduates, you have a great deal at stake in this mat­ter. Your tuition dollars are being used to fund a "National Catholic Research University." Are you benefitting as a result? Tuition costs are skyrocketing and the increased revenue is not being used to hire more fac­ulty members or improve the quality of teaching. You and your families are making tremendous financial sacrifices for your education here. You deserve the best that Notre Dame has to offer. You are not getting it. 
What can you do about it? For one thing, you can speak up. Write to Father Malloy, the Provost, the Board of Trustees, Student Government, The Observer, Scholastic, the South Bend Tribune. Let your local Alumni Association know what is going on. Get your parents involved. 
Unless you keep this issue alive, the quest for research glory will continue to overtake undergraduate education as the top priority of this University. You won't get more classes, you'll get more committees who will waste their time doing re­dundant studies. The transition to a "National Catholic Research University" is being brought about at a serious cost to undergraduates. Do some­thing about it. After all, this is your education at stake. 
Karen E. Stohr 1991-92 Student Body Chief of Staff Chair, "Back to Basics" April 28, 1992 

For people at Notre Dame, fear of AIDS is overblown 

Dear Editor: 
The April 28 letter about the prevalence or lack thereof of HIV infection at Notre Dame evidences a much larger problem here and within the media, that of specific detailed information of infection rates and methods of transmission. 
Here are the facts as detailed primarily in a 1990 book entitled The Myth of Heterosexual AIDS (New Republic Press). by Michael Fumento, a lawyer and former AIDS analyst for the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. I think these will surprise readers. 
A May 1989 study revealed that out of 16,861 students (of which there were more women than men) tested 30 were HIV positive. Of these, however, 28 were male. This implies that most of the people infected were gay men. When one factors out other possible sources of infection for the two positive women, there is every reason to believe that the heterosexually acquired infection rate for university men was something less than 1 in 10,000. 
Of 188,348 diagnosed AIDS cases (as of August 1991), whites who acquired the virus heterosexually amount to a "whopping" 727, less than one­half of one percent. Or consider that by the end of 1988, 17 million HIV-antibody tests had been performed on donated blood. The rate of infection was found to be 40 per 100,000. 
Among the infected, interviewers found that even though high-risk people had been told to screen themselves out before donating (anyone who has given blood knows about the questions involved), between 80 and 90 percent of those infected were from high­risk groups (i.e., homosexual/bisexual males, intravenous drug users, and hemophiliacs), leaving that rate at 6 per 100,000 for people like the majority of us at Notre Dame. 
Among women having unprotected sex with an infected man, the average woman did not become infected herself until she had had sex 1,000 times with the infected man. 
A survey of the early AIDS victims in that category showed that they had averaged 1,100 lifetime partners each, which suggests one of the two major reasons why the disease has been so prevalent among gay males, namely staggering promiscuity. The other is efficiency of transmission involved in anal intercourse. 
"You have sex with every single person your partner has had sex with," and presumably ad infinitum. This is simply misleading. Here is why: using the above-cited rate of infection of 1 in 1,000 with an infected person, the odds become 1 in 1 million that your partner (who we must assume had sex with an infected person) got infected in his/her one encounter with that person and then will transmit it to you on your one encounter. The numbers obviously decreased for multiple partners and multiple encounters, but the point remains, most especially for the one-night stand type. 
Of late, the favorite idea that media people have been tossing around is that the percentage of people becoming infected through heterosexual transmission is increasing, presumably implying that the long-predicted "breakout" is finally occurring. And again the implication is misleading. What. is actually occurring is that the rate of increase in new infections among heterosexuals is decreasing at a slower rate than among homosexuals. Fumento predicted as much in writing, "In the years ahead, homosexuals will make up even small slices of the pie, especially when their epidemic curve peaks and they are actually having fewer cases diagnosed each year than in the previous years. .the heterosexually transmitted category will suddenly bulge until such time as it begins to peak and decline as well. 
Will the media report this heterosexual transmission bulge as merely a growing slice in a rapidly shrinking pie? Or will there be another round of headlines: 'The Heterosexual Breakout Here at Last!' Don't bet against it." 
The facts demonstrate that to the vast majority of us AIDS has never been a big threat. 
For elaboration on the racial and socioeconomic aspects of AIDS, I refer you to Fumento's book. He -writes at length in explaining why the frightful numbers coming out of Africa are misleading and completely inapplicable in America. Lastly, and perhaps most intriguingly, he posits how and why this disease has been so poorly covered and distorted by the media and government. 
To relate one last comparison Fumento gives us of how the imagemakers in America have dealt with AIDS. Imagine that the government was running a campaign against breast cancer, a disease which strikes, with the exception of 900 unlucky American males a year, only women. If the government treated this campaign like they have AIDS, we would see ten ads featuring men saying things like, "I used to think breast cancer only struck women. . ., " for every one featuring a woman. Let that sink in. 
If you are still feeling scared about your past behavior, do not hesitate to go get tested. An HIV antibody test generally comes up positive within a few weeks of acquiring the virus and in the vast majority of cases within six months. The results. will bear out what I have written. 
The bottom line is that there are plenty of great reasons to hold off on or abstain from heterosexual intercourse, but under scrutiny fear of AIDS does not hold up as one of them. And with apologies to ACT-UP <the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power), in some cases, "Silence = Scared to Death (for no good reason)." 
Frank T. Pimentel Law Student April 27, 1992 



f~y 
MUSIC 

Bridget's, Trees, 9:30 p.m. Midway Tavern, Dead Silence, 9:30 p.m. Club Shenanigan's, P.S. Dump Your Boyfriend, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS 

Folk Dancing, Club House, Saint Mary's College, 
7:30p.m. 1992 Studebaker Festival, Studebaker National Museum, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
sa , ay
•
MUSIC 

Midway Tavern, Dead Silence, 9:30 p.m. Club 23, Sister Chain, 10 p.m. Club Shenanigan's, P .S. Dump Your Boyfriend, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS 

1992 Studebaker Festival, Studebaker National Museum, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Camerata Singers Pops Concert, Elco Theatre, Elkhart, 7:30 p.m. 
Marie Osmond, Old Lakeville School Project, 7 &9:30p.m. 

EVENTS 

Midnight Panc.ke Breakfast, North and South Dining Halls, 11 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. "Ordo Vlrtutum," Musical Drama, Basilica of the Sacred Heart, 8 p.m. 
~
......, 
FRIDAY 

"Beauty and the Beast," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 
10:30 p.m. "G111nd Canyon," Annenberg Auditorium, 8 &10:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY 

"Beauty and the Beast," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 
10:30 p.m. "G111nd Canyon," Annenberg Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
By JAHNELLE HARRIGAN Accent Editor 
I 
t's that time of year again. Some will travel. Others will work. And some have 
no idea. 
It's almost summer, and with 
finals soon approaching, many 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
students have made solid plans for 
the next three months. But others 
are still waiting for something to 
turn up."I have no clue what I'm 
doing this summer," said Notre 
Dame sophomore Heidi Toboni. 
Pursuing the possibilities for summer employment, Toboni has sent out 32 letters inquiring about job applications and information to businesses in her home state of New Hampshire. She's had only five responses. 
"I have to earn money in a big 
way because I'm going to London 
in the fall," she explained. 
Toboni is now looking into doing some kind of volunteer work this summer. "I looked into staying here (in South Bend) and working and going to summer school, but you can't live here (on campus) the whole summer and I don't think employers are interested in hiring someone for only a few weeks," said Toboni. 
Laura Pfouts has also had a hard 
time finding a summer job. 
"I was looking for a job at home in hospitals because I'm Pre-med, but they're just not hiring college kids. At least not this college kid," said the Notre Dame junior from Greensburg, PA. 
"It's hard being from a small town. There's not a lot of job opportunities for college kids," she added. "Also, I really haven't been home this semester. That makes it hard (to find a job)." 
Pfouts is now thinking about staying in South Bend and at­tending summer school because of the lack of jobs at home. "I'm trying to find a job here before I decide what to do," she said. 
Kitty Arnold understands students' needs for summer employment. As the Director of Career and Placement Services at ND, she handles student resumes and career-related questions on a daily basis. 
There are ups and downs to the job-availability situation for college students today, according to Arnold. "What we're seeing is a national trend for national 

'I'll be participating in a summer service project in Virginia Beach, VA, at a shelter for battered women and children.' 
-Andrea Topash (freshman) 

Students prepare t variety of su 
corporations to increase the number of internships they are offering," she said. 
But these same corporations are placing more and more emphasis on hiring their summer interns for permanent positions after graduation, thereby eliminating many non-intern students from being selected, according to Arnold. 
Earning money is a primary concern for many students, Arnold said. 
There are a lot of students who express a concern about the debt they will be in after college and the effect it will have on their families, according to Arnold. "I am very impressed with the seriousness our students take that family obligation," she said. 
Chad Sutcliffe, a Notre Dame freshman from Kennebunk, Maine has three different jobs lined up for this summer. He cites making money as his primary objective for 

ents 

For this poll, we random! they will be spendi 
All information was compiled and 

r-· 
'Still looking.. .' -Steve Franklin 

-J
(freshman) 
working. 
"Part of it goes to tuition. Part of it goes to spending money. Also, I. 
want to buy a car this summer," he 1 said. 
Sutcliffe, an engineering major, will gain career-related experience this summer by working 40-45 hours per week at Costar, a plant in his hometown that produces medical products for labs. "I'm not exactly sure what I'll be doing. It's not very well defined," he explained. 
He will also coach a track team of five to 12 ye ar-ol ds for approximately 10 hours a week, and will wait tables at an area restaurant for 10-20 hours per week. 
Saint Mary's freshman Molly Ryan will spend this summer working in construction. "Basically I put up walls and insulation. But I get paid a lot," stressed Ryan, from Deephaven, Minn. 


take advantage of 
•

1mer experiences 


Pittsburgh could have caused problems financially for him, said Prado. But Amoco will be paying for his housing in addi­tion to his salary while he's in Chicago. 
"They've taken care of just about everything. They've been unbelievable. They call about three times a week to see how I'm doing. I can't believe how much they've done," Prado said. 
But summer doesn't neces­sarily mean earning money. 
NO junior Michelle Mandeville is planning on working at the American Embassy in Paris this summer. Through a program set up by the Notre Dame Council on International Business Development (NDCIBD), Mandeville, a business major, will be doing some kind of unpaid work related to her major. 
"It will probably be doing studies and research into the 
'I'm going to Europe for three weeks with 



French economy-finding out which American firms would have the best success rate in France," she explained . 
''I've been wanting to go over there and travel. But when I heard about the internships I decided to do that instead," said Mandeville, from Excelsior, Minn. 
Pete Skinner also found an unpaid summer internship through the NDCIBD. Working in places such as Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo, the NO sophomore from Verona, N.J. is part of a four-student delegation going to the Far East. 
"We're going to the Pacific Rim to try to establish contacts for future internships," he ex­plained. 
Skinner was concerned with the amount of money he would earn this summer because he will be studying in London next semester. When he found this short three and a half week in­ternship, he decided to take it and work at home as a lifeguard for the remainder of the summer, he said. 
Volunteer work is also a popular alternative to the "average" summer job for many students. 
One hundred and thirty-seven students are participating in summer service projects coor­dinated by the Center for Social Concern this year, according to Coordinator Sue Cunningham. 
"Most students doing projects, about 95 percent, have been involved in different service activities over the years," Cunningham said. 
Junior Joe Theby is one ex­ample. The accounting major from Evansville, Ind. will be volunteering his time this sum­mer at Holy Trinity, a summer day care center in Indianapolis. 
"I've done a lot of esc stuff at NO-it (the service project) just fell into place," said The by, who will work with approximately 100 children ages four to five. He will be responsible for teaching as well as supervising activities such as field trips, he said. 
There is a wide variety of jobs available to students this sum­mer, according to Arnold. 
"It really goes all over the map," she said. 

The Observer/ Sean Faman Irish Accent comedy club members practice 'off the wall' skits. Their show will be Friday at Washington Hall from 8 to 10 p.m. 
Irish Accent: dedicated to keeping campuses laughing 
By EMILY HAGE Since its inception, the group Accent Writer has performed at various loca­tions, including the Saint 
T 
hey say that laughter Mary's, Alumni-Senior Club, is the best medicine, Theodore's and even at the but can it cure that North Dining Hall for a dinner befire finals stress? theater show. 
Irish Accent, Notre Dame' first and only improve comedy They have also traveled to group, will give it a try tonight several small colleges. At Skid­at Washington Hall from 8 to 10 more College, they participated 
p.m. in the third annual ----------N a t i o n a I 

This will be her second sum­mer as a construction worker. "There's a couple of college kids that do it every year. They're all guys," Ryan said. 
The fact that she is the only female in her workplace does not bother her. "It was weird at first, but then you really can't tell the difference," she said. 
Darin Prado's summer plans are set. The junior accounting major from Pittsburgh will work as a paid intern for Amoco in Chicago. 
'Til be doing accounting work in the crude oil purchasing division," he explained. 
After leaving his resume with an Amoco representative at the NO job fair, Prado was notified that he was selected as one of 12 finalists for one summer intern position. The applicants were then narrowed down to six and finally, he was offered the job. 
Living in a city other than 
The group will perform political 'If you want to skits and "off the 
scream a little bit
wall, bizarre" comedy, said Sorin and laugh a lot, Hall senior Doug come to our Hellerbe, co­
show.'
founder of the group with Tim 
Farish, also a Sorin Doug Hellerbe campuses is "on 
Hall senior. -the cutting edge," 
said Hellerbe. 

But the people on ----------Groups like Irish the stage won't be the only Accent are new to the 12 to 16 performers. college troupes who 
Irish Accent likes to includes participated in the Skidmore the audience in many of their conference, including the Uni­skits, and hopes to attract a versity of Michigan, Kenyon large audience "with the right College, Stanford University, attitude," said Hellerbe. and the University of Arizona. 
"If you want to scream a little bit and laugh a lot, come to our Notre Dame's group has had show," he added. from 7 to 12 members. Students 
performing tonight include: 

Improv participants will be Hellerbe, Farish, Lewis Hall poking fun at at such timely senior Jill Jones, second-year topics as George Bush as this law student Mike Cloonan, year's commencement speaker, Dillon Hall senior Jason Scar­in addition to the "best of' some lett, and Dillon Hall freshman their past skits, by request. Kevin Schmitt. 
"You'll think we're crazy," Fisher Hall junior Doug Boz­said Hellerbe. ick and sophomore Jamie Hill, 
Irish Accent was created four also of Fisher Hall, will replace years ago "to perform new av­Hellerbe and Farish next year enues of performance at Notre as its co-presidents. Dame, including both on and Irish Accent always welcomes off-campus subjects," said new members. Auditions will be Heller be. held in the fall. 
Comedians Confer­ence, where they were among the top 20 percent, according to Heller be. 
Student comedy on college 


The fellowship in Middle-earth has ended 
page 22 Friday, May 1, 1992 

On graduation weekend, I  they come back t he first time for  people let time pour through  
tend to have a field day, behav­ing like an S.O.B.. side-stepping the members of the graduating class who want to see me sad  Father Robert Griffin Letters to a Lonely God  a game in the fallthey are losing tractiveness becther ruining or sp , I see the way their at­ause life is ei­oiling them.  their fingers as though it were beach sand; they have so much of it available, they think, in the decades ahead; and I hope that  
when they say goodbye.  Looking  at  me,  they're  they do.  
Meeting them in the hallways,  startled to see  how shabby I  But the young years are so  
I  skillfully  elude  the  out­ Some years, I play or read,  an appropriate choice when I  look  ("Was  he  always  this  priceless. Yeats wrote: "The  
stretched hands. When anyone  "The Piper  at  the Gates of  use  it  as  a  valedictory  to  shabby?", they're wondering,  years like great black cattle  
says, "I would like you to meet  Dawn," from "The Wind in the  Domers facing analogous rites  "or have we jus t started now  tread the world ... And I am bro­ 
my parents," I answer, "In a  Willows."  of passage.  paying  attent ion  to  his  ken by their passing feet. But of  
minute, but first I need to at­ I leave listeners to make their  For me, these childhood clas­ shabbiness?")  course this was middle age that  
tend this call of nature."  own connection between Notre  sics I present have become like  I  remember  one  old  Yeats was speaking of; all of us  
The student thinks I mean the  Dame as God's little acre where  sections borrowed from the  grad,whom I hou se-broke as a  would like a time out or two  
bathroom; but the call of nature  old people dream dreams and  service of the Burial of the  freshman,  stud ying  me  as  when we're that far along. After  
I have in mind is an urge to go  young people see visions, and  Dead. Seeing the boys and girls  though I were  the worn-out  forty,  the  years  can  be  in­ 
birdwatching, preferably on an  the River Bank where the gentle  of summer in their ruin, I don't  couch from Good  Will which he  terchangeable in the way they  
overnight trip.  creatures like the Water Rat,  want them going gentle into  carried out to th e dumpster as  leave us bored.  
What the students don't real­ the Mole, and Baby Otter catch  that good night-which is the  he was getting r eady to move  But a year off in our salad  
ize is that by graduation week­end, the fellowship in Middle­ glimpses of old Pan, the nature god, or hear him playing the  real world that can kill you-into which they are heading.  out of the dorm. Finally he sai d, "Get some  days, when we are green in judgment, can mean a dream  
earth has already come to an  Pan pipes in the dawn light.  In honesty, of course, I don't  new clothes," an d he threw a  deferred; and dreams deferred  
......  end. The snippets of time de­voted to acting a little longer  But my favorite thing of all,  want to believe that any student I know has to be dragged  one hundred dofeet. "Michael,"  llar bill at my I said,  necessarily become hostages to Fortune, fickle Fate, and the  
like hail fellows, well met, for  when I'm on the radio the day  kicking and screaming into the  embarrassed to  have money  caprices of one's own karma.  
the sake of auld lang syne, can  before Commencement, is to do  life that awaits him after duLac.  flung at me as th ough I were an  
be full of pain. Why hold a wake for a dying  a live-voice broadcast of the fi­nal chapter in "The House at  But I do want the final chil­dren's program of the spring  organ-grinder's is the first time  monkey, "This I've worn the  Some survivors of the college merry-go-round would be wise  
school year that could leave you  Pooh Corner," in which Pooh­ semester to serve as a send-off  coat and pants I h ave on."  to drop out for a while; however  
with tears on your face? Why allow some wiz kid on his way out the door to demand a pound  bear and Christopher Robin reach an enchanted place in the forest and we leave them there;  to Domers about to drop out of my sight for a very long time. Acquainting them with an en­ I could tell you stories of how alme a little heart eight thousand ums have left -broken over  they know who they are, since their nervous breakdowns have already started. But the rank­ 
of flesh from you as though it  all of which is a farewell to  chanted spot at the top of woods  their rapid rise in  life.  and-file should march into the  
were a fringe benefit that came with the scholarship? "It's no  childhood, sort of in a way. That's because C.R., at four or  where a boy and his bear are forever playing-or leading  Generally I enjthe golden girls a oy visits from nd lads coming  future straight away, while they are all-over lusty with juices  
skin  off  your  nose  if  the  five, is leaving the nursery to  them to the River Bank where  back.  But  on  graduation  that make them ripe for any  
graduates finally figure you out  start  school.  Hearing  that  the  wind  sings  in  the  wil­ weekend, it's on m y mind to say,  adventure.  
as a cold fish."  Christopher Robin is  going  lows-or tuning them into the  "Stop the world:  I want to get  Some years, the humiliating  
For many years. I have gone  away, Pooh and  his friends  half-billion stars in which silver  offi" That's becau se I can't cope  part of the commencement is  
on  graduation Saturday  to  present the lad with a testimo­ bells fill the night sky with  gracefully with s aying goodbye  that after wearing myself out to  
WSND-FM for my weekly radio  nial saying they will miss him.  melodies, I hope they will fall in  to so many camp us sweethearts  avoid the admiring crowd for a  
program for children. Some  Later, when he's alone with  love with landmarks of the  whom I will ne ver again say  day  or  two,  I  find  that  
years I play a recording of Peter  Pooh, the lad says he is never  imagination reserved especially  hello to in my who le life.  nobody-nobody  at  all  that  
Ustinov  or  Richard  Burton  going to do Nothing anymore;  for children, where we can be in  Some of the ra diant young­ anybody  remembers  
reading  from  "The  Little  when  Pooh  asks  why,  C.R.  touch again as dear friends,  sters want to te ll me, before  seeing-has really been looking  
..  Prince;" highlights are the chapter on the Taming of the  replies thoughtfully, "They won't let you."  whenever I meet them there.  leaving campus athey're taking of bout the year f to do volun­ for me. But I remember Notre Dame before the coming pf the  
Fox, and the final, wonderfully  With  the  mention  of  the  Students flying into the wild  teer service  selfish people, who never look  
lyrical section which describes  ubiquitous  "They,'  we  see  blue yonder on their newly-is­ They're surpris ed to hear me  back.  
the ringing of bells all over the  shades of the prison-house  sued wings promise you that  say they could be  making better  May the great lion Asian, Lord  
night sky and the sound of  closing over the growing boy.  they will not change; but that's  use of their time;  of course what  of  Narina,  and  his  Father  
laughter coming down from a  The last of Milne's Christopher  like promising always to stay  they really expe ct from  me is  beyond the sea, bless all of you,  
star that E.T. could be living on.  Robin stories always feels like  young. Looking at them when  Applause! Appl ause! Young  and keep you in their peace.  


The University of Notre Dame continues to be a major source of staff for Price Waterhouse. We are proud to welcome the following 1992 graduates to our firm. 
.._ 
c BOSTON ······•.·•••J0 
Jeff Guckert 
Jon Martin 
(,,,,,. CHICAGO 
Jennifer Bonvechio Michele Hahaj Maria Reda Bridget Underwood Michael Wolfe 
(:] .. . ·. ···.··.·.·. '•f\
G••· ;..=.:.:,;: .... PALLA~.::.:?:,., .. [9 
Sandy Gill Nora Purtell Chad Tate 
(· ·.. ··:•·· .DENVER ,.::;:;::: ··••.JY 
Daryl Overholt 

Tom Murray Margarita Schramm Stephan 

(]\] .. :.;.. f><IEWYORK•···· ?··) 
George Masek  
(  .  PHILADELPHIA John Rapchinski  )  
(  ·•·•·•·· ·  SAN .JUAN Ruben Ramirez  )  

Price Waterho-uSe 


----~~--------~.-------------------~~-------------~----~---------------------~~~----~~-----------l 
I Friday, May 1,1992 The Obsrever page 23 I 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from I 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classijieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
"Our Old House" HEY YOU! NEEDED 2 Tickets to Graduation: Michigan Bed and Breakfast. 35 call Neal 283-1159 
NOTICES WANTED FOR RENT Mins. from Campus. (616) We have all the furniture and 
II II 
435-5365. apartment stuff you could possibly 2 Grad tix needed big $ L----------_J $350.00/ DAY PROCESSING BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY want. The latest in car interior call Bob at277-8491 thanxWORD PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL 219-291-7153. 
A riverfront sharp home and couches and Oriental settings. 
256-6657 YOU. NO EXPERIENCE apartment for rent weekends or We're looking to unload this Please Help! 
NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. RESERVE YOUR 2, 4, or 5 shortterms. 219-257-9101/219-merchandise so price is negotiable. I need one Grad. Tix. 
$$ FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-S'lt Bedroom House for 92-93 NOW! 
291-6100. We're at Castle Point so if you're Will pay top dollar. 
Pandora's Books BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR 3 Safe Area, Private Parking thinking of moving there look us up. Call Nick@ 271-0104 corner of NO ave & Howard CHILDREN DURING SUMMER. Lot, Volleyball & Basketball Court, Attention bisexual women Call HENRY or THUY @ 272-9326 reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday FULL-TIME, NON-SMOKING, AND Semi-Furnished. Call 234-1886 (and other interested parties): anytime and leave a message if HELP!!! I need one grad. tix RELIABLE. OWN Turtle Creek sublet available. Call we're not in. Please call pat @ 271-0835 Allegro TRANSPORTATION A MUST. SUMMER SUBLET 
Rian@ X1209 for details. money no object!
GOOD SWIMMER PREFERRED. 
CALL US!
A contemporary cafe with a PLEASE CONTACT MICHELE TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE 
Kicked off campus? Sexually One way plane tic. SB-Denver touch of the old world. AFTER 5:30 AT 277-5374. FOR RENT OVER SUMMER. TWO 
harrassed by your roommate for the ••• SENIOR LIQUIDATION ••• May 9$80 Brian 287-5987 
Located in the lower level of BEDROOMS, ONE AND ONE 
1992-93 school year? Three Word Processor/Typewriter­LaFortune Hall. Open 24 hours a ALL NEW IN '92! HALF BATHS, FENCED IN PATIO, (adjective) guys are looking for a disk mem,full screen,spellchk NEED GRAD TIX!
day thru Thursday 5/7. Distribute bumper stickers and T­LARGE LIVING AREA, WALKING Turtle Creek roommate. Call Chris 2 Bed Loft-made from tiqued TIM 289-7321 shirts. Help America and your DISTANCE TO CAMPUS. 
@ X1088 if you need us as much bunkbeds, best you can find!!
Mary Kay Skin Care wallet. Call 1-800-584-0757 nights CALL ERIC X1392 as we need you. We've been 5ft Office Desk w/2 shelves & Need Graduation Tix Call 299-0551 wknds or or weekends. CALL BRYAN or BRENNAN Phi lied! secretary chair $95 Call Mike 277-2124 
after 4:00 wkdys X1376 Stereo & CD w/remote $95WANTED: Female roommate to CALL KEN X1385 
RENT 1 BDRM APT nr ND CALL SCOOTER x1538 ATTENTION SENIORS: TYPING AVAILABLE help with off-campus rent for $250+util.,dep. 287-7039. 
287-4082. summer school, June 22-August 8. Summer Sublet ALPINE 7168 Digital FM/AM I HAVE 4 CEDAR POINTIf interested call Furnished 2 Bedroom FURNISHED ROOM, KITCHEN, Cassette Car Stereo: Dolby,Typing X1502 272-9817 AIR, PRIVATE ENTRANCE, 5 MIN. auto metal, power amp fader TICKETS FOR ANY DAY OFPickup & Delivery N. CAMPUS. 272-0615. 18 presets, digital clock, 
277-7406 SENIORS ATTRACTIVE STUDIO'S IN 
auto seek, and more. Never SENIOR WEEK. 271-9165 Want to sell your bicycle LOVELY OLD VICTORIAN BLDG. 
Turtle Creek Apartment used; still in original box TEXAS: I'm driving home tor the rather than take it home? NEAR N.D. 225-300/MO. CALL available for summer $260 value. Yours for $150. 
summer to Austin and I don't want Call 239-5335 and ask for 2879634 FOR SUMMER AND FALL 272-6489 to do it alone. Want to help, call Bill Walt. RENTALS. 
PERSONAL
Furnished -A!C -2 bedrooms x4274 CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 

BE ON T.V. many needed for ONE WEEK TIME SHARE. 
$450/month or make offer 

Attention Notre Dame I SMC commercials. Now hiring all ages. RENT $700 USA, $800 OTHER. SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $251 
89 MERCEDES......... $200 
NEW JERSEY students: for casting info. Call 60-90 DAYS NOTICE each way on discounted scheduled 
call Mark 271-1578 86 vw.......................$ so
Luggage Truck loading on (615) 779-7111 Ext. T-1678 USE BY AUGUST 8 airlines to Europe from CHICAGO. 
87 MERCEDES.........$1 00
Thurs. May 7 6:00-8:00 pm 616-435-5805. Call (800) 325-2026. 
Room to rent over summer in Turtle 65 MUSTANG ........... $ 50
Fri. May 8 12:30-2:30 pm Moving to Chicago area? '91 grad in Creek. Share with MBA student.Apt.
all loading at Stepan western suburb looking for roomate. HOUSE FOR RENT F
fully furnished, will need a bed. Choose from thousands starting 
Pick up Sun May 1 0 Call Don 708-629-3608. $150/mo. Call Paul287-2159. R
$240 pm. Ph. 273 2302 ask tor $25.
Morris Plains 9:30-11 :30 am I
Geoff. FREE 24-Hour Recording Reveals
CBA 2:30-4:30 pm CUTE BLONDE NEEDS HELP 2 bedroom Turtle Creek Townhouse E
Giveaway Prices. 
?'s call Matt VanderGoot DRIVING HER COOL PINK CAR -sublet during summer months N
LOOKY! LOOKY! LOOKY! 801-379-2929TO MD/WASH. DC AREA Best Offer-x4073
x 1756 or *!*!*!*!*!*!*1*1*1*1* !*! Copyright #IN11 KJC. D 
Keith McKeon x 4070 ON 5/17. CALL MOLLIE 4999. s
HANG BY THE POOL NEXT TO

WANTED: 3 FEMALE STUDENTS H
CONCRETE TURTLES! 88 Mazda 323, 4spd, AC, EC, 22K
Attention Washingtonians! MOVING TO SAN FRANCISCO??? FOR LG. HOME. $200/MO. PER I
CHEAP-CHEAP-CHEAP mi! Hundreds below blue book! Jim
ROOM. LOTS OF AMENITIES. P.C.B.
TOWNHOUSE READY FOR YOU W239-6064/H273-9059A luggage truck will be running from I AM LOOKING FOR SOMEONE YOU STUDY WHILE I TRAVEL & TO SUBLET THIS SUMMER
N.D. to Spokane and Seattle after TO SHARE AN APT. WITH IN THE ENJOY THE UTOPIAN LIFE. CALL Yayyy
CHEAP-CHEAP-CHEAP 1 hideaway couch-$75 graduation. BAY AREA. FOR APPT. PAUL 232-2794. 
CALL NOW #3414, 3439, OR 2668 1 col. table-$5
Limited space is still available! Call Hey Erin and Tammeee 
1 cushion chair-$1 0 Lisa X3153 or Theresa X2935 TOM X1762 HEY, all you party animals, the 
THOSE NUMBERS AGAIN 277-4491
ASAP to make reservations. FRAT HOUSE is available for the Your name in the paper?
#3414-PETE

Need transportation back to year 92-93. Make it the best year of #3439-STAN FOR SALE: '85 ISUZU I-MARK.
Madison, New Jersey area? call your life. Call 272-5509. Help Me, Please
#2668-KATE Ex. Condo, sunrl, Needs clutch 
LOST/FOUND 
287-8421. 
TURTLE CREEK SUMMER $1 ,200, O.B.O. -283-4903.
S U M M E R I N S. B . ? I need graduation tickets if anyone SUMMER JOBS AVAILABLE IN has some they are not going to use.
Lost: thin gold bracelet Looking for roommate to share Baseball Cards For Sale 
YOUR HOME TOWN! Works sublet the newest, largest, Call Quinn at x2059 if you have any 
between North Dining Hall turtle creek apartment for summer. Complete Sets 
Corps is looking for hard working 1-1/2 bath, most energy info.
and Knott or Knott and CHEAP RENT. Call 283-1926. 1964-90
and motivated students to manage efficient 2-bed appart. @ 
Grace-sentimental value­Call: 283-3576 
their own summer business. Earn Turtle Creek-for the same price of please, help me
if found please call x4914. WANTED: one roommate tor three­
up to $10,000. For more the other 2-bd. appt. 
person house on Napolean Blvd full-size mattress like new
information, please call 1-800-238-X2447 Meg,
LOST NO STARTER JACKET AT (only six blocks from Main Circle) Kelly 288-8762 
3254. CLEARLY THE BEST CHOICE • FRIENDS FOREVER*
SR. BAR ON 4/23. DID YOU GRAB $165-a month rent Call Pete #1187 ANDTHE WRONG ONE? LAUNDRY or Rich #3457 Dorm Fridge-cheap
SMC '91 Grad seeks 1-2 Near N.D. quaint,clean *LOVE YOU ALWAYS!* 
TAG IN JACKET WITH LAST Mike B. 234-1048 
roommates Sept. -Chicago. Call furnished apts. Studio-$230 Love,
NAME "ABBATE" AND NUMBER Need 1-2to sublet Turtle Creek 
Lisa eve. 1 Bedroom-$260, deposit, Land M
"80001". CALL TONY@ 277·6048. Tnhse. Sean x1933. HEY LADIES, MOVING TO
1-708-848-9013. references 1-800-582-9320 PANGBORN? 
To My Boy and Babes abroad, I 

LOST Sun. 26 April at Huddle: A Custom Double Loft for sale 
705 N.D. Ave. 3 bedroom available cannot wait for 
blue PHIL 244 notebook with my FOR SALE Maximize floor space. X2476
Summer Work for summer sublet, fall semester. you to get home! 
name, room number and phone 
Vector Marketing is interview­$475.00 Call234-8200. Pat B. 
number on it. My notes stink, but if ATTENTION SENIORS: 
ing students to place in South INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
you really want them I'll make you a 
Bend and all over the nation. YOU STILL HAVE A CHANCE TO Good rates. Save Money. Call me Hey-
copy and pay for it too. I just want I HAVE 4 CEDAR
Internships-Scholarships SUBLET FOR THE SUMMER!! for a quote 9:30-6:00, 
to be able to get a decent grade on POINT TICKETS 
possible. Interview in S.B. office. SLEEP CHEAP AT THE 'CREEK! 289-1993. Office near campus. The Pleaser, Sloandog, Ho-man, 
the final -please have a heart and if FOR SALE FOR 
Call 239-4700. CALL#3414 Stew, Go go gomez, Fleck, Rap, 
you found my notebook call 4911. SENIOR WEEK Shower, D, Bill-No questions will be asked!!!! CALL 271-9165
Hey!!! Cheapest TURTLE CREEK STUDENTS AND PARENTS! You're the shit Summer Nanny for three children in summer housing call PETE or SAVE on those housing costs. Buy Have a good one
LOST: SET OF KEYS WITH N.D. 
Elkhart. Must have dependable car BRIAN at x3414 this Oakhill Condo, walk to classes. The Freshmen -YAY BRASS KEYRING AND HONDA 
and vaild drivers license. Salary Get a break on your taxes, and a
CAR KEY AT STEPAN COURTS FOR SALE CHEAP: '83 Dodge 
plus mileage. Call262-1446 after 6. return on your investment after Alicia .... 
ON SUN. PLEASE CALL PETE AT Aries. 60,000 mi. am/lm cass good
STAYING FOR SUMMER graduation. Call Janet Knapp at 
287-9258. cond. call DAVE 277-7258. I also 
SCHOOL? REIMAX 100 realty for more WANTED: A rational explanation for 
have furniture to sell CHEAP! 
I WOULD LIKE TO BUY ANY OLD information. 219-255-5858 or 219-the termination of the ND wrestlingLOST LOST LOST LOST LOST !!I!! 
TUBE OR HIGH-QUALITY SOL.ST. House for rent!!! 277-7402. program. Must be logical, coherent, 
For Sale: 1 Yr Old Desk, Chair, 
STEREO EQUIPT. AND VCR. TRUE and must not make the 
A Gold Claddaugh Ring. Lamp, $200 value for $75. Chest of
ALEX#4223. Four Bedrooms, SAFE area ATTENTION PANGBORN university look like a bunch of 
Somewhere between: drawers, bed to sell also. Tom
FEMALES -1 YEAR NEW money-hungry idiots. If you can help
PW and Keenan/Stanford @258-5808
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT within walking distance 2 PERSON LOFT us out, call Athletic Czar DICK and -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. TO SEE CALL X2341 Rosenthal at his toll-free number 1­
PW and Lafortune DINETTE, new, $100; BAR
Free transportation! Room & Board! $150/mo. per person 800-GET-CLUE.
CHAIRS (2) and LAMPS (2).
Over 8,000-openings. No P.S. What team is next on the list? 
Please. this ring has great new, $30 each; LIVING ROOM
experience necessary. Male or CALL 284-4456 (asap) Airline ticket from South Bend to 
sentimental value. If you find it FURNITURE, 5 pc, $150; 
Female. For employment program Newark, NJ on 5/9 WATERBED, $150; DRESSER, U P S on CAMPUS please call X2873 and ask for Mary 
call Student Employment Services also selling bedroom dresser 
Jo. $100. MUST SELL. NEGOTIABLE. 
at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597. N.D. grad subletting great Chicago Michael277-2151 We don't miss a day! Ship
272-8648.
studio from June-October, option to your stuff home now and renew lease. Secure building in relax during Finals Week. Female roommate needed for Lincoln Park steps from lake and Round trip, nonrefundable air 
Lost-silver key ring with three keys TICKETS 
Williamsburg Apt. June 1st $234.50. buses downtown. $465 a monthe. tix -CHICAGO to JUNEAU, M-F 12-5 Sat. 11-2 between Knott and Call 258-5702 Call Mary H) 312-883-9428 W) 312-ALASKA leave Chicago on 5-24,SlEds on Sat night. Call Pete 642-1168. returns on 5-31, 617$ value tor PLEASE! Desparately need 1 grad 239-6714 at1698. 
SALES PERSON WANTED FOR ONLY 400$! call312-988-7964-tick. for my Grandma-277-4491. at FOOD VENDING CART ON THE leave message. THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 
WEEKENDS. LOCATION WILL BE ..1NEED GRADUATION TIX!!! .. lower level LaFortune 
CANT SEE??? 

ON THE EAST RACE. GREAT Selling contents of off-campus apt., ....Michael @233-3263 .... 
FOUND: Pair of wire-rimmed 
SUMMER INCOME. MUST BE MOVING TO CHICAGO? vcr, beds, couches and more. For sale: Pair of 1 00 watt Sonyglasses after bookstore finals on the 
OUTGOING. CALL RICK AT 288-Two 1991 SMC grads seek Call273-1814 for specifics. speakers. 
grass. Claim at campus lost and 
1454, WEEKDAYS. 273-0900 female, non-smok. roommate PLANE TICKET FOR SALE FROM Call x1563 
found. 
NIGHTS AND WEEKENDS. beginning June 1. Big N-shore 78 Volkswagon Van Outstanding NEWARK, NJ TO SOUTH BEND apt., $290/mo. Great location! California Condition. 120/K. ON MAY20. SPOC -WATCH OUT FOR THE Unbeatable price I Please call Automatic, White. $1,750. 616-CHRISTIAN X1806 TREES!! GOOD LUCK! LOVE 
LOST: 
Need Graduation Tickets BADLY -soon. (local) 271-1443, ask 684-7203. MOM, DAD, DIANE, CHRIS AND SILVER CROSS PEN WITH THE 
Will Pay BIG $. Ask for T.Rog at for Garrett. Need Graduation Tickets. Call COLIN 
NAME DANNIKA ENGRAVED ON 
288-7341 For sale: Racing Bike with many Laura X4980 IT. IF FOUND,PLEASE CALL accessories. Total retail $1100. ATTENTION SUMMER x4233 OR TAKE IT TO THE 
I need your REFRIGERATOR. Call Asking $350 or best offer. X3718 Need 1 or2 grad tix. Let's make a STUDENTS: 
OBSERVER OFFICE. 
289 2823 SIX EFFICIENCY APTS. IN BLDG. deal. Ron 3315, leave message. VITO'S BARBER SHOP NEAR N.D. WILL RENT For Sale: '91 Geo Metro XFI, 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
LOST: 14k Gold Link Bracelet-very 
NEED RIDE TO CT!MA AFTER INDIVIDUALLY OR 30R MORE AT Excellent gas mileage, 5 speed BULLS PLAYOFF TICKETS 233-4767 thin and about1/2 inch wide. 
GRAD, WILL PAY! A DISCOUNTED RATE STD, 23,000 miles. $5500. Call HomeGame7
PLEASE call if found-of great 
LANCIA, X1279 CALL2879624 277-4876. 1167 Kyle HAIRCUTS: $5.50 
value to me. X2948 
.... . --~ see .CLASS/page 35 
-. -:.-~~-­
---~-----~-­
.......,.~

·r--------------~----=4~~------------~----------~-~------· 
' 
' 
' 
L.. 
' 
,r 
I I 
FOOTBALL N•tlon•l Fool"-11 Le•gue AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE CLEVELAND (98) KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-Signed Wedneedey'e G•rne• Wedneedey'e Gernee 
Nance 8-19 0-0 18, Sanders 5-9 1-2 11, Michael Smith. wide receiver BaMimore 5, Minnesota 4 Allanta 8, Chteago 0 
Daugherty 4-12 11-13 19, Ehlo 5-10 o-oLOS ANGELES RAMS-Signed Don AMERICAN LEAGUE Milwaukee 5, Kansas C~y 3 St. Louie 2, San Francisco 1, 121nnlngs 11, Price 5-12 8-7 18, Williams 5-11 10­Bracken, punter; A.J. Jenkins and Tom Homco, Etoet Dlvlelon Seattle at D81roit, ppd., rain Pl!lsburgh 4, Clndnnat1 0 1 2 20, Kerr 1-3 0-0 3, Battle 1-4 0-0 2

linebackers; Derrick Carr, defensive end; Charles w L Pet GB L10 Stre•k Hol'llll Away Texas 5, New York 1 New York 1, Houston 0 Frank and Everen Nlchollaa, defensive backs; Toronto 16 7 .698 z-6-4 Lost 1 11-4 5-3 Boeton 8, Chicago 1 San Diego 7, Montreal 2 Totals 34-80 28-34 98 Randy Schneider, tadlle, and John Plncllney and Baltimore 13 8 619 2 z-7-3 Won 2 6-1 7-7 Toronto 1, Calllomla 0 Philadelphia 7, Loe Angeles 3 NEW JERSEY (89) Hendricks Johnaon, wide receivers. New York 13 9 619 2 z-6-4 Lost 2 7-5 6-3 Cleveland 5, Oakland 2 Thuredey'• a ...... Morris 8-19 5-8 22, Coleman 7-21 8-11 
MIAMI DOLPHINS-Signed Rodney Milwaukee 10 9 .528 4 5-5 Won 2 5·6 5-3 Thuredly'e a ...... San Frandsco 9, St. LoUJs 3 22, Bowie 3-5 3-4 10, Petrovic 8-14 2-2 Blackshear. wide r.oeiver, Kirk Carruthers, Boeton 9 9 500 4112 5-5 Won 2 8-5 3-4 California 9, Cleveland 5 Montreal 9, San Diego 3 
14, Blaylock 4-13 0-0 8, George 2-5 0-0 4,llnebacller; Tony Cllzen and Kevin Hart, running Cleveland 8 15 .349 8 z-4-8 Lost 4-9 4-8 Oakland 10, Detro~ 6 New York 4, Houston 3 Dudley 1-4 3-8 5, Mills 2·8 0-0 4. Andersonbaclls, Man Humphreys, Wneman; Tyrone Lewis, Detroit 7 14 .333 8 4-6 Lost 1·9 6-5 ChJCago 12, Texas 1 Phlladephla at Los Angeles, ppd , VIolence 0-0 0-0 0, Lee 0-1 0-0 0 Totals 33-90 21­cornerback, Rick Burkhead. tulback; and Joe w..t Dlvlelon Milwaukee 3, Toronto 2 

Only games scheduled Ostaszewski. no.. tackle w L Pet GB LtO Streak Home Aw•y Only games scheduled 29 89. NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-S~gned Oakland 14 8 .636 5-5 Won 1 7-2 7-6 Frldey'e Gernee Cleveland 16 24 27 31-98 William Price, defenalve back Chicago 11 8 579 1112 5-5 Won 1 5-4 6-4 Mlnnasota (Tapanl1-2) at New York (Perez 1-2), 7.30 p m. New Jersey 30 18 25 1~9 SEATTLE SEAHAWKS-Signed Texae 13 11 .542 2 4-6 Lost 1 3-7 10-4 Kansas City (Gub1cza 1-2) at Boston (Gardiner 2-0), 7:35p.m. 3-Polnt goals-Cleveland 2-5 (Ehlo 1-1, Tyrone Rodgerw and J...,_ Harrla, defensive Cal~omla 11 10 524 2112 z-!;.5 Won 1 3-6 8-4 Seattle (Johnson 3-0) at Bahlmore (McDonald 2-0), 7·35 p m. 
Kerr 1-1, Price 0-3), New Jersey 2-1 1 enda, Bryan May and Mke Jovanovich, oHenslve Seanie 10 11 476 3 1/2 z-6-4 Lost 2 5-6 5-5 Cal~orn1a (Langston 1-1) at Cleveland (Scudder 1-2), 7 35 p m 
(Bowie 1-2, Morris 1 -4, Coleman 0-1 ,linemen; and Joe Mero. defensive back Minnesota 9 12 .429 4112 5-5 Lost 2 4-7 5-5 Oakland (Stewart 1-2) at Detro~ (Tanana 0-2), 7·35 p m. 

Petrovic 0-1, Blaylock 0-1, Mills 0 1, Lee

World League K,.,..as City 3 17 150 10 2-8 Lost 1 1-8 2·9 Toronto (Key 1-0) at Milwaukee (Navarro 1-2), 8'05 p m. MONTREAL MACHINE--(;Ialmed Texas (Witt 2-2) at Chicago (Hibbard 4·0), 8·05 p m 
0-1). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Cleveland Greg Horne, punter, from Team Dallas NATIONAL LEAGUE Frld•y'a Gernee 84 (Daugherty 14), New Jersey 53 (Coleman Etoet Dlvlelon Chicago (Maddux 3-1) at Cincinnati (Swlndei11-1), 7.35 p m. 14). Assists-Cleveland 18 ( Ehlo 7), New
BASEBALL 
w L Pet GB L10 Struk Home Away New York (Young 2-0) a1 Allanta (Avery 1 -2), 7 40 p m. Jersey 21 (Coleman 6) Total fouls­Arnerlcen L..gue Pl!laburgh 
15 5 .750 z-7·3 Won 1 7-1 8-4 Plnsburgh (Tomlin 4·0) at Houston (Harnisch 1-3), 8 35 p m Cleveland 24, New Jersey 27 Technical­CLEVELAND INDIANS-Purchased New York 
13 9 591 3 z-B-2 Won 3 8-4 5·5 St. Louie (Cormier 0-3) al San Diego (Lefferts 2·2), 10:35 p.m. 
the contrad of Crllig Worthington, third baseman, St Loula Morris A-13,071.
11 11 500 5 5-5 Lost 1 5-4 6·7 Montreal (Haney 2-1) at Los Angeles (Candlotti3-0), 10:35 p.m. 
from Colorado Springs olthe Pacific Coast Philadelphia 
10 12 .455 6 6-4 Won 1 5·4 5·8 Philadephla (Abbott 0-4) at San FranCisco (Swift 4-0), 10·35 o.m. 
League. Optioned Jeaae Levla, catcher, to Montreal 9 14 .391 7112 3-7 Won 1 3-7 6-7 NATIONAL LEAGUEColorado Sprtnga. Chicago 
7 13 .350 8 z-3-7 Lost 3 5-5 2·8 BATTING-Kruk, Philadelphia, .407; Morandlnl, Phlladephla, 364, RThoJlllSOn, San Frandsco, .353; Gwynn, San Diego, 347,
DETROIT TIGERS-Sent Dan w..t Dlvlelon Gakeler, pMcher, to London ollhe Eastern League W L WCiark, San Frandsco, .346; ONeill, Clndnnatl, 338, Sheffield, San D18QO, .333. RUNs--Bonds, Plnsburgh, 17; Gwynn, San
Pet GB LtO Streak 
Home Aw•y D1ego, 16; Lankford, St. Louis, 15; Hollins, Philadelphia, 15, Gnasom, Montreal, 15; 9 are tied with 14. RBI-McGrtH, San D18QO,on a rehabilitation ualgnment San Francisco 12 10 
.545 5·5 Won I 
8-5 4-5 21; Gant, Atlanta, 19; Murray, New York, 19; Strawberry, Los Angeles, 19, Bonds, Plnsburgh, 17, Hollins, PhiladePhla, 18; TEXAS RANGERS-Activated Nolan Cincinnati 11 10 .524 112 5·5 Lost I 5-3 6-7 MaWIIIIame, San Frandsco, 18, Kruk, Philadelphia, 16; Dau~on, Philadelphia, 18. ltfS..-.{lwynn, San Diego, 34; Kruk, Ryan, p~cher, from the 1 !;.day disabled Uat. San Diego 12 11 .522 112 5-5 Lost 1 8·6 4-5 Philadelphia, 33; Lewis, San Frandsco, 29; Sheffield, San D1ego, 28, WCiark, San Francisco, 28; Duncan, PhlladePhla. 28;Optioned Barry Manuel. pitcher, to Oklahoma City Atlanta 11 11 .500 1 6-4 Won 5 7-3 4·8 DSanders, Atlanta, 27; TFernandez, San Diego, 27. DOUBLES-Duncan, Phlladephla. 10; Pendleton, Atlanta, 9; Murray, of the American Auoclatlon Sent Monty Farias, Houston 10 11 .476 1 112 z-4-6 Lost 5 9-6 1-5 New York, 8; WCiark, San Francisco, 7; Wallach, Montreal, 7; BJordan, St. Louis, 6; Sheffield, San Diego, 6; Calderon, Montreal, Infielder, to Oklahoma City on a 20-day Loe Angeles g 13 409 3 z-4-6 Lost 4 5-7 4-6 8; Gwynn, San Diego, 6; Johnson, New York, 8. TRIPLES-DSanders, Atlanta, 6; Butler, Loe Angeles, 4; 9 are tied with 2.
rehabll~allon asaijlnment Z·denotes llr111 game was a win. National League 
HOME RUNS-Bonds, Plnsburgh, 7; McGriff, San D1ego. 6; LWalker, Montreal, 5; Gant. Allanta, 5; MaWIIIIame. San Francisco, LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Placed 
5; JCiark, San D1ego, 4, DrJackson, San D1ego, 4, Davl8, Los Angeles, 4, Strawberry, Los Angeles, 4. 
KaJ Daniels, llrwt baaeman, on the t!;.day dl&abled.---------------------------------, lilt retroacllve to April 27. 
HAPPT BIRTHDAY BAPPT BIRTHDAY 
BASKETBALL • 
I 

United s..... B•kel"-ll L..".. 
Goi·ng Home Spec1a
ATLANTA EAGLES-Signed James 
Martin, guard, and Chrla Collier, forward 

Kenna will be 21 on the 24th ... 
~ 

JACKSONVILLE HOOTERS-• • 
f 

AcqulredWeeManhews,guard,lromlheAIIanla Make someone happy With a gift ro
Eagles tor Scolt Bailey, forward. and a player to be named later. MIAMI TROPICS-Traded the rights 
Wish the 
to Steve Bucknall, guard, Derek Strong, forward, Chuck Nevitt. center; and Sean Gay, guard, to the Atlanta Eagles lor future conalderatlona. 
Saint Mary's College
World Bask81ball Leagua COLLEGE 
"Futz" a 
BIG WEST CONFERENCE­Approved the addhlon ol Southweetern Loulelana, Louisiana Tech, Northam IINnola and Arkansas 
ALL CLOTHING 10% OFF 
State to the conference football program 
Happy
AUBURN-Announced the resignation of Pat Dye. athletic dlreclor, effective when a aucceaaor '-named 
During Finals Week May 4-May 8 
INDIANA-Announced that Jason Mad!, tootbaH center, hu lo8l his final year of 
~ Birthday ~ 
ellglbll~y alter being auapended lor a year by the at NCAA tor unspecified rules violations MICHIGA~arned Trlah Roberts women 'a basketball coach 
~~---n-o_w__________~~ 
ST. LOUIS-Named Win Case men's 
Saint Mary's SHAHEEN BOOKSTORE 
Ia .LLIYR ..tVOII.I.llltl ..tddVH ..tVOII.I.llltl
assistant basketball coach 
TEIKYO WESTMAR-Named David 



-...,..... a 
Friday, May 1, 1992 The Observer page 25 
CONGRATULATIONS 
TO THE RECIPIENTS OF THE 1992 GRADUATE SCHOOL AWARDS 
HUMANITIES 

Jonathan M. Strand, Ph.D., Philosophy 
Dissertation Director: Alvin Plantinga, O'Brien Professor ofPhilosophy 
SociAL SciENCES 
Augustus E. Jordan, Jr., Ph.D., Psychology 
Dissertation Director: David A. Cole, Associate Professor ofPsychology 
SCIENCE 

Gian Mario Besana, Ph.D., Mathematics 
Dissertation Director: AndrewJ Sommese, Chair and Professor ofMathematics 
ENGINEERING 
Paul M. McAllister, Ph.D., Chemical Engineering 
Dissertation Director: Eduardo E. Wolf, Professor ofChemical Engineering 
··­

The Graduate School Awards were established in 1990 to recognize superior academic achievement and research accomplishment ofa graduating studenfin each ofthe Graduate School's four divisions. 
-~----------------..,.....----~---------~ -----~----~~----­page 26 The Observer Friday, May 1,1992 
, L.A. riots affect two games 
Clippers, Dodgers contests postponed due to threats 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Thurs­day night's game between the Los Angeles Dodgers and Philadelphia Phi.llies was post­poned because of the civic un­rest that began a day earlier. 
The Montreal Expos are scheduled to play a three-game series at Dodger Stadium starting Friday, but some Mon­treal players were hoping for additional postponements. 
"I don't want to go there," Expos second baseman Delino DeShields said Thursday after the Expos beat San Diego 9-3 at Jack Murphy Stadium. "There's no need for us to go there when things are crazy. It'd be better otT for everybody, not just us. This game isn't very important. That stuff is a lot more important than a baseball game." 
The postponed Phillies­Dodgers game will be resched­uled at a later date. It would have been the finale of a two­game series. 
Mobs ignited fires, beat mo­torists and looted stores throughout Los Angeles after Wednesday's acquittal of four white policemen in the beating of blaek motorist Rodney King. 
"Our thoughts are with the people of Los Angeles at this time, and we thought it was in the best interest of everyone to postpone tonight's game," Dodgers owner Peter O'Malley said in a statement. 
The violence was centered in South Central Los Angeles, sev­eral miles away from Dodger Stadium. but there were distur­bances within a few miles of the ballpark. 
The unrest eontinued Thurs­day, and a dusk-to-dawn cur­few was imposed by Mayor 
reduce reuse recycle 
IF 
THE 
SHOE 
FITS,

REPAIR 
IT. 
~ 


Tommy Lasorda 
Tom Bradley. The California National Guard and the Los Angeles Fire Department were using the Dodger Stadium parking lot as an emergency staging area. 
Earlier in the day, the Los Angeles Clippers' NBA playoff game against the Utah Jazz at the Los Angeles Sports Arena was postponed until Saturday, and Hollywood Park's thor­oughbred racing programs of Thursday afternoon and Friday night were canceled. 
Tom Candiotti (3-0), sched­uled to pitch Thursday night against the Phillies, will pitch against Montreal's Chris Haney (2-1) Friday night, if the game isn't postponed. 
Philadelphia will open a three-game series at Candle­stick Park against the San Francisco Giants with Kyle Ab­bott (0-4) scheduled to pitch for the Phillies against Bill Swift ( 4­
0). 
Expos spokesman Richard Griffin said the team was spending Thursday night in San Diego and would leave at 1:30 
p.m. Friday and travel directly to Dodger Stadium by bus if there is a game. 
Griffin said the National League would inform the team at 1 p.m. Friday whether or not to make the trip. 
"There's no use taking· any chances," Expos shortstop Spike Owen said. "My feeling is there's no use in endangering anybody's safety -the players, the fans, or everybody who works at the stadium." 
"I don't want to go," said Expos outfielder Larry Walker, who is Canadian. 'Td rather go back to my beautiful country. 
· We don't need to go up there and take the risk of playing some games when they're call­ing in the National Guard." 


PEOORTIDC CENTER &: SHOE REPAIR 

______.~ -------~-~-,
----------------------------:.>-­
1 
l 
1 

Friday, May 1, 1992 The Observer page 27 

" 

THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
~~<v~~1>~ 
~~~ ~~~ C:>~<v 10% 0 ... * 
YOUR PURCHASES ON MOST ITEMS 
~~~REGISTER TO ~ ~~~ WIN PRIZES ~~ .._<§ <;; ~'"~· ~. ~A 
' v 7~ ~4 
~ ~~ Friday May 1st Only~ ~~/ ~ . ~'6 • ~~ 
'• 

Notre Dame Students Must Present Your I.D. At The Time Of Purchase To Receive Your Discount~ 
• 

* not applicable to= 
textbooks. film, film processing. health and beauty aids and class rings. 
l~p_a~ge__________________________________~____________T_h_e_O_b_s_e_N_e_r____________________~~~--~--------F_ri_da_y~,~M~a~y~1~,1-9_9_22s 
game against Denver drew a one-game suspension. "We really want the seniors to make the
Mats Lax 
t .. tournament," said Senger. "We don't want their last 
continued from page 40 along with Iowa." Heavyweight junior Steve King, a potential All­American who was redshirted the past season, flew the coup to the University of Michigan like hot shrapnel. "Coming from Notre Dame, I've always hated Michigan," said King, a native of Janesville, Minn. "But academically, they're actually ranked ahead of Notre Dame." Like McGrew, King will have an Olympian to train with in 26-year old assistant coach Curt Trost, a national champion in 1987. Sophomore Chris Jensen is due to land on the west coast at Oregon. "It's close to home (a four hour drive) and they've been in the top-20 the last three years," said the 118­pounder who held a 6-6 mark with the Irish the past season." Jensen expressed the predicament all the varsity wrestlers faced. "They gave me two choices-stay and don't wrestle or leave to somewhere to fulfill my goals as a wrestler." Other hot rocks will remain at the site of the explosion, including freshmen Matt Beaujon and Mike Fox, both starters, and the very promising Brian Murphy (10-5). Said Fox, a walk-on who earned the 142-pound starting job somewhat unexpectedly, "I knew my wrestling career would end sometime, but I never expected to have the rug pulled out from under me." "The sport's been a huge part of my life. "said Fox who, along with a few other former wrestlers, may consider walking on for the Irish football team. Those definitely leaving but uncertain about their destination include freshmen Jamie Downey and Harris Brumer. Both are considering Michigan, Northwestern and Wiseonsin among other schools. "I've got mixed emotions," said Brumer. who finished with a 10-2 mark at 167. "I'm just getting to like this place, but I know I'm doiing the right thing; I'm just not ready to quit the sport right now." Junior Jamie Boyd will stay put, but plans to use his final year of eligibility elsewhere during graduate school. 
The Chicago Tribune and Joseph Tybor contributed to this report. 
continued from page 40 
Villanova topped both the Irish and Spartans, but the difference appears in competitiveness, where Michigan State fell 11-2 and Notre Dame lost 14-10. Following that same trend is the Ohio-Wesleyan matchups. Notre Dame came out on top 11-5, while Michigan State squeaked out an 8-7 win. 
Yet, the Spartans would like nothing more than to reverse their losing ways against Notre Dame. Leading the charge will be midfielder Robby Robertson and attacker Andy Hilgartner. Robertson has a team 39 points, including 30 goals, and Hilgartner boasts a team high 22 assists and 33 points. 
On defense, the Spartans rely on their strength to thwart opponents. This may be to the advantage of Notre Dame who, like Ohio State, use quickness and ball control to victimize opposing defenses. 
The Irish have had the benefit of a week off to prepare for Michigan State, something the Irish have used to their advantage. 
"We used the week to really know what they like to do," said defender Pete Senger. "I feel we have the personnel to stop them on defense and be successful on offense." 
"Also, Mike Iorio has had time to rest and should be ready for Michigan State," continued Senger referring to the concussion Iorio suffered against Ohio State. 
If an NCAA bid isn't motivation enough, then the potential career ending game for seniors Mike Sullivan, Brian Schirf, Doug Murray and Chris Nelson should be. 
The group had been one of the most productive senior classes in Notre Dame history. Sullivan is the most obvious example, participating in more games than any Irish player (57) and finishing as the school's all-time scoring leader. 
Nelson should be well rested after sitting out the Ohio State game. An ejection he received in the April 20 
Top lifeguards receive honor 
Observer staff report 
Gracia L. Geraghty of Seattle and Julie M Robertson 
of Waukesha, Wiseonsin have received the 1992 
University of Notre Dame Lifeguard Award for 
Outstanding service. 


game to be against Michigan State." 
Joining the seniors as on-field leaders will be the usual names. Brian Mayglothing leads the middie attack, while attacker Randy Colley gets most of the attention at that position. 
If the Irish pull out the win against the Spartans, it will be the second trip to the NCAA tournament in the past three seasons. In 1990, coach Kevin Corrigan took a young Irish squad to the tournament, where they bowed out to Harvard in the first round. 
The first 600 people to arrive at the stadium will receive ice cream, and a "Study Break" raffle will be held at halftime. The game set to begin at 7:30p.m. 
Grace captures lax title 
Observer Staff Report 
Last night, Grace Hall beat Stanford Hall 4-0 to claim victory in the Interhall Lacrosse Championship. Grace was paced by Mike McMahon. who scored two goals and also dished out an assist. Joe Martinez and Chris Rosen also had a goal apiece and Sean Hyer preserved the shutout in the goal. 
"Hi, I'm Carren!" 
appy 19th to our favorite blonde! 
Love, 
Katie (your roommate!) and the est of the Badin girls. 
-------------------------------~ 
. -... -.... -J'T 

Friday, May 1 , 1992 The Observer page 29 
An Open Letter to the University of Notre Dame Community Concerning Child Care 
The Give Kids a Chance Coalition is an informal group of faculty, staffand students interested in making Notre Dame truly a family university. This group recently sponsored a signature drive to ascertain the university community support for a child care facility on campus. The response was overwhelmingly positive. 
"We, the undersigned, believe that the University ofNotre Dame should make broad-based and inclusive child care (for faculty, staff, and students) part ofour fundamental mission as a nationally known Catholic institution. The University has no child care policy at the present time. We urge the administration to immediately establish a child care center on campus with operating costs paid by user fees. 
Such a center would serve the child care needs ofthe Notre Dame family. 
This facility would assist the University in recruiting and retaining its employees and students." 
Margaret Giles  Eileen Kolman  Vish Yelsangikav  Betty Singer  Gwen Y. Scott  Dottie Andreae  Elizabeth D. 'fucker  ShihWinMa  
Christine Weiss  Rita K Grontkowski  Perry Mutchler  PatMedich  Nicholas Ayo, CSC  Judy Dean  Debi Craycraft  Dennis Prickett  
Arlene Spitz  Nahid Efran  Guoben Li  JoanGilliom  Kathleen Regan  Lisa M. Vervynckt  Lisa Jordan  Jason S. Van Lieshout  
Jean A. Cane  Angie Chamblee  Sunil Nariana  Rita Gong  Micahel McGurry  Wendy A. Harmon  Rodney F. Ganey  Phil Heard  
Evelyn Starczews!O Robin Lisek  W. Timothy McNeill Patricia Ham  Subra Kumaraswamy Rebecca E. Moskwinski  Debbie Kleiser PatKoers  Juliana R. Newbill Marci J. Moran  Irene Soley Marlene M. Malott  Barbara A Bromley Jerald Janicki  Christopher Bosio Robert E. Kubisiak  
Laura Ping  Francis McCaffery  Diane B. Schlatterbeck  Deoborah K. Buscoe  Martin Pullido  Linda Brady  Patricia Studebaker  Phy1lis Luckert  
Pamela Keller  Darlene Borlik  James Moriarity  Madeline Day  Stephen Murphy  Carla J. Linhoff  Michael A. Brach  Morton S. Fuchs  
Katherine T. Marshall  Karen Chavis  Catherine Wilhelm  Clayton Smith  Richard Porras  Christopher R. Lowe  Jennielea H. Vidrich  Loretta Wasmuth  
Rachel Boyd  Jeff Nix  Jan Bucha  Gretta Hoisington  Jim Bonalsky  Caryll Vicsik  Diana Loeffler  Joan R. Smith  
Carolyn Van Overberghe  Angel Delgado-Gomez  Debbie Strom  Cindy Francis  Dan Sheerin  Donald 0. '1\J.rk, Jr  Carol Hennion  David M. Lodge  
Barbara Gasperetti Tami Zimmerman  Phyl1is Shelton-Ball John P. Fisher-McPeak  Sally A. Smows Susan J. Elcock  Richard Johnson Dale Carter  P. I. Martin Kenny Shoab  Claude Devaney Carol A. Larkin  JoanneGion Peggy Queen  Charles F. Kulpe Robert P. Mcintosh  
Eileen M. Doran  Jonathan T. Taylor  Deborah K Antonucci  Sharon L. Szucs  Jessica Ziembroski  Roberta A. McMahon  Patricia Lynn Olson  Kathleen A. Pecen  
John H. Pearson  Barbara J. Sutton  Laura E. Szumial  Colette Babcock  Carol de Jesus  Susan Clark  Katha Machalleck  June A. Vecera  
Judith Lenger Veronica C. Blasquez  Jeanne Philotoff EllenM. Mast  Stephen M. Simons Rosemary Atkison  Donna Adams Timothy A. Baylor  Francisco Lozano LeeR. Mcintyre  Richard A. Emge Harriet E. Baldwin  Betty Vanderbeek Louise Webb  Julie A. Coyle John G. Duman  
Julie Wilberding  Marilyn Lamirand  Frances Hunter  Karen A. Aberli  Kevin Bugos  Peter Lombardo, Jr.  Lucy Zielinski  Paul R. Grimstad  
Pat Smith  Mimi Kintner  Mary Lou Abbott  Regina McNeir  Maureen Gleason  Kathleen W. Anthony  Debra DuRal1  AnnaM. Hin  
Sharron Harris  Donna Neely  Rita Rossigno  Michael Geg1io  Frank K. Reilly  Richard E. Burgess, Jr.  Nancy Fulcher  Malcolm J. Fraser, Jr.  
Marina De Fazio  Paul A. Orban  Ruthann Heberk  Marilyn Van Bergen  Donna Smith  Dianne C. Haimes  Jerry C. Wei  Yvonne Vadeboncoeur  
J. Westerink  Nancy Gundlach  Marina Smyth  Dorothy Wilcox  Kathy Royer  Laura E. Matteo  Eileen Miller  Troy D. Zars  
James F. White  Debra M. Page  Kim Baum  Virginia G. Ori  Kathleen Maas Weigert  Sue Anne Turza  Elaine Sera  Kathy Troth  
Steven Srmek  Ron Blessing  Jennifer Blatchford  Greg Trompeter  Sue Cunningham  Jacqueline Brogan  Jeffrey C. Kantor  Douglas McAbee  
William B. Drew Jr.  Bernadette Zoss  Alice Osberger  Don Fehrs  Jinny Weidler  Dwight King  Sherry DePoy  Mike Massing  
Debra A. Kuskye  Jo Eberhart  Joseph Wawrykow  D. T. Simon  Mary Ann Roemer  Lucy Salsbury Payne  Linda Phillips  Paul H. Snyder  
Jackie Haslett  Paula Miller  Lisa Boyett  Larry R. Davis  'Ibm McDermott, CSC  Chevelle Williams  Jeanne Davida  Walter B. Hines  
Sue Mansfield Joe Zakrzewski  Joanne H. Rupinskas Nancy L. Van Lue  Lezlie Knox Mark D. Holtz  GaryM. Kern J. L. Walter, esc  Don McNeill, CSC Sandra Barton  Mark Greaney Rebecca Carlton  Evelyn Reinebold Jennifer Gooley  Elizabeth D. Eldon Joe O"Tousa  
Debby Womsch  Lisa R. Williams  Nicole Discenza  Mary L. Filbert  Carol A. Porter  Gail Greaney  Jeri Lucas  Mary Louise Gude  
Janis L. Johnston  Margaret Hartman  Kent Emery, Jr.  Karl Kronstein  Jay W. Brandenberger  Kara O'Leary  Michelle Jaronik  Anne-Christine Houdebine  
Eleanor Bernstein, CSJ  Jude Phillips  Brian Smyth  Thomas J. Cashore  Kathy Robinson Coleman  Lenore S. Roark  Elizabeth Wajszcuk  Marie-Christine Escoda Risto  
Barbara Dudley  Connie Montana  Pat Karpinski  Susan Steibe-Pasa1ich  Elizabeth J. French  Kelley J. Collins  Martha K.. Vaan Overberghe  Therese Cover  
Theresa F. Koemke, IHM  Jill E. Moore  Marilyn Bierwagen  Julia F. Knight  Mary E. Andrews  Durleen M. Braasch  Debra J. Love  Belinda M. Hoffman  
John K. Brooks-Leonard  Jan McGowan  Laura Fuderer  Alex A. Himonas  John Carson  Ellen D. Rogers  Mary B. Lein  Elizabeth A. Pawlicki  
John M.J. Van Parys  A. Faye Sullivan  Jethrow Kyles  Andrew J. Sommese  Robert M. Hamma  Karen M. Pace  Jeffrey D. Rice  F.J. Castellino  
Lorraine Strope  Kathryn Kennedy  Ina Kahal  Cheryl Huff  Charles E. Jones  Pamela A. Krauser  Marilyn Rice  Jon Gentry  
Kathy Bryson  Maureen Cohagan  Rita D. Erskine  Mary Nemeth  Philip G. Haney  Mary Ann Clark  Paula F. Cook  Joan Lukasiewicz  
Deborah Gabaree  Carol L. Johnson  Bruce Bunker  Karen Jacobs  Theresa Hall  Lori A. Flory  Robert L. Rogers  Diana Weldy  
Shirley Burkus  Bill Martinov  Kathie Newman  Joan Hoerstman  Mark Witbeck  Janis L. Gholson  Triphan Lema, Jr.  Roman Smith  
Carol Kaesebier  John Miller  Anne E. Tabor-Morris  John Thurber  Br. Raymond Trottman  Jean C. Rose  Wayne Bishop  Bernard Blais  
Karen J. White  Matt McGettigan  Francis Deck  Zeljko Sokolovic  Byron J. Delee  William G. Hinkle  Jeff Moore  Fred Dallmayr  
Thomas V. Merluzzi  EricYouts  Daniel Plante  Anand PiJlay  Larry Marbley  Douglas A. Frafl80n  Kenneth A. Miller  Mario Borelli  
Raymond R. Reno  Kristin! Heath  UmeshGarg  Steven Buechler  Theresa A. Hennessey  Richard A. Hilliard  Jo Bessler  Thomas Kosel  
Alan Dowty  Kathleen Carey  Gino Serpa  Eugene Ulrich  Elizabeth Westrich  Francis M. Kobayashi  Susan Feirick  Roberta Lupo  
Sharon Struck  Dionne Smith  Richard J. Cohen  Peter W. Flint  Eleanor T. Kelly  Jeremiah P. Freeman  Flora M. Riddle  Fanny Wheeler  
Linda S. Dolan  Chris Hujnik  Chan-Yun Lee  Rob Kugler  JulieS. Epping  Myna A. Martin  Melodie Eiteljorge  Leona Strickland  
Charlotte S. Ford  Rory Richardson  Tzufen Lin  Nancy Cole  Luke Conway  Maureen Wickham  FeiFeiWang  Constance Slack  
Annette Zeller  David Holzweiss  Neal Cason  Connie J. Gordon  Elizabeth S. Gleaaon  Beth Schneider  Philip J. Andrzejewski  Jewan Bae  
Jennifer Carson  Meredith Reid  Paul Shanley  Judy Smith  Anne M. Barreda  Jan Swaim  Ann Rathburn  Clarice Staunton  
Tammy Krugh  Patti Chern  J. K Furdyna  Dixie E. Kullman  John Donlan  Michael P. Kenahan  Michele Gelfman  Craig Lent  
Sandy Doyle  Vu Tran  M. Oobrowolska-Furdyna  Diane Huddlestein  Sr. Elaine DesRosiers  Tamara M. Liddell  Lenice Schmidt  Robert Minnito  
Francis Leedy  Chris Ebberwein  I.Bigi  Kathleen Drajus  Amy Effertz  Sonia Goltz  Diane Scherzer  Michael Lemmon  
Colleen Jones Ann M. Barr  Shannon O'Hogan Michele Klesta  N.Dai Lesley Krueger  EdieHawley Edna S. Mutchler  Nancy M. Jacox Carol L. Taylor  Rafael Tenorio Eugene Halton  Skip Meyer Jill G. Lindenfeld  Wolfgang Porod John Kennedy  
Sandy Palmer  Patrick Barth  Z. W.Fu  Pauline Wright  Paul Broadheal  Joseph W. Thomas  Dianne Patnaude  David IOawiter  
Bobbi Wiseman  Aura E. Martinez  J. J. Kolata  Judy Spiro  ChrisHadrick  Rebecca L. Brothers  Peggy Williams  Charlene Avallone  
Debbie Brown  Brenda Moreno  Sandy Trobaugh  Jon O'MaJley  Sue Jay  Barbara E. Ritty  George Kammerer  Angie Brant  
Patricia Vanek SWlBn Kletka  Signid Argth Nelly Lorenzo  Kathy Burgess M. Wiescher  Linda Riley Baozhen Li  Linda-Margaret Hunt Carolyn Sherman  Florence J. Klecka Debra A. Fox  Cynd.i Sykes Nancy Dombrowski  Nancy Mitchell Jennifer A Morehead  
Norma Jean Hall  James 0. Bellis  Joyce Thmasch  Jeffrey W. Fergus  Mary R. Rhoden  Phyllis Strom  John Moshak  Joan Loranger  
PatMetz  Martin F. Murphy  Judith A. Kloc  Rajiv Doshi  Annette Hirl  Edward Huff  Susan C. Joyce  Jane Fies  
Carolyn Meert  Leo A. Despres  Brian Smyth  Li Wang  Anne Gapczynski  John D. Halfman  Juanita C. Levine  Alice Benjamin  
Pam Winenger  Mark A. Shurr  Marina Smyth  YuShen  Patt Sterzik  John Welle  Brenda Jones  Natasha Filipski  
Rita Derucki  Lori A. Butchko-Curran  Rita Donley  Donald Sniegowski  Laura L. Glon  Susan McGonigal  Marceline Y. Bingham  MarieKramb  
Carol Cain  Irwin Press  Michele M. Martin  Paul Reynolds  Rosemary Molnar  Jeanne Neely  Deborah M. Cooh  Stephan Moriarty  
Janet L. Brothers  J. Messenger  Nancy L. Hanson  Katie Wesolowski  Eileen M. Przybysz  Mary Pantzer  Mary Galovic  Meagan MacKenzie  
Lori Moser  Patrick D. Gaffney  Cecilia Lucero  Nancy Graham  Fred Snyder  Pam Holmes  Curtis A. Coffer  John Bellaschi  
Shirley Wise  Beverley Love-Holt  Kenneth J. DeBoer  Nancy Benjamin  Robert A Spence, Jr.  Jim Daves  Jennifer L. Warlick  Alicia Hernandez  
Roland Hall  Mary Lister  Peter P. Grande  Carolyn A. Moser  Victoria E. Schmidt  Ava R. 'futaon  Robert P. Burke  Suan Wilham  
Celia R. Monges  Tracy Cabello  Roberto Lupo  JoAnn Lake-Coughlin  Valerie A. Schroeder  Rose Piertzak  Heather Craycraft  Lisa Bucci  
Larry Fries  Martin M. Deridder  Sister Josef Riordan, D.P.  Lori M. Hosford  Vicki Mack  DavidA. Cole  Beth A. Bland  Lyn Magliola  
Pat Battles  Kelly Hamilton  Kathleen M. Creedon  Arleine Demien  Deborah Bang  Anne Evans  Frances L. VanThrnhaut  Cynthia Scott  
Jennifer Gl888  Colleen Gannon  Patricia A. Jochum  Phyllis Sandfort  Kathi Piekarski  Danielle Cantono  LynnS. Joy  Michael Garvgy  
1bby S. Green  Wendy Clauson Schlereth  Ann Schlaffman  Kern R. Trembath  Timothy R. Scully, esc  MaryKaven  Marina Smyth  Dennis Brown  
Dolores Michalski  Jennifer A. Webber  Elizabeth M. Toohey  Patricia Moorehead  Christine M. Kush  JeffWiemeri  Brian Smyth  Maryanne Pfannerstill  
Kevin Dobecki  Charles Lamb  Denis Goulet  Dorothy J. Anderson  Lorenzo A. Zeugner, Jr.  Kay Stewart  Art Grubert  William O'Rourke  
Janet Shulaw  Sharon Sumpter  Kevin J. Christiano  Anne Fearing  Carol Szambelan  Matthew Ryan  David Burrell, C.S.C.  Teresa Ghilarducci  
Penny Medina  William Kevin Cawley  Arvind Vanna  Carole Coffin  James MacKenzie  Richard Williams  Pam Brzezinski  Juli Tate  
Maureen Hallinan  Bernadette A. Thrry  Mary C. English  Carolyn Drajer  Marsha Stevenson  Susan Penrod  Tamara L. Ciszozon  Thomas Swartz  
Sylvia Phillips  Marie H. Moran  Maria Szopska  Kathleen Biddick  Sophia K. Jordan  Michael Newhouse  Shopon Mollah  Candance Hanes  
Cynthia Sutton  Muffet McGraw  Bart Burk  James M. Bishop  Mary Louise Pote  Julia V. Oouthwaite  SeemaSham  Rick DeVries  
Thresa Elston  David Glass  Allan Schell  Christa L. Wardlow  G. Margaret Porter  William 0. Albertini, Jr.  YoungJ. Lee  Martin Wolfson  
Philip Mirowski  Sandra L. Botham  Jean A. Pee  Alice Hohulin  Linda K. Gregory  Amy K. Heesacker  Phani Kurada  Martin Salz  
Kltty Arnold  Dan Crummins  Marilyn Bellis  Joyce Vogler  Joseph H. Huebner  Ed Delgado  Scott Milligan  Chu Huan Chang  
Gerald Arnold  John F. Glon  Sonia Gernes  Alberta B. Ross  Linda Messersmith  Linda Chalk  Donna K.. Zajac  Stephem Batill  
Chris Kennedy  Paul E. Gargan  Elliot Rosen  Elizabeth French  Beverly M. Jennings  Wendy Siebert  Cassie Baker Lee  Joel Preston  
JO&eph Manak  Patricia Gargan  Julie Niedbalski  Jim Langford  Michael A. Lutes  David P. Fitzgerald  Jay Hosler  Jose V. Nebres  
Barry Baumbaugh  Teri Szilagyi  Merrillyn Morgan  Ann Bromley  Barbara J. Jennings  Reynold F. Nesiba  Lesley Blair  Ken Cheung  
Erskine Peters  Victoria A. Ploplis  Gwen Stayback  Tom Ringenberg  J. Douglas Archer  Marek Szopski  Mark Lavery  James Pinkelman  
Prashant V. Kamat  Alan Krieger  Marvin Godsey  Midge Holleman  Denice Griffin  Jim Moure  Patricia M. Charlebois  Deborah Grismer  
M. Katherine Tillman  Cathleen L. Lindsay  Sharon A. Clancy Orban  Rosemarie Green  Kim Peterson  Chris Vandenbossche  Nadine L. Duhan  Shirley Loyd  
Kimberly A. Gray  Michael Brownstein  DonnaKamm  Catherine Burch  Cathy Rosenthal  James M. Jenista  Becky S. deBruyn  Perotha Loyd  
Elaine Tracy  Michael Buening  Mary M. Neenan  Anne Hayner  Donald Sporleder  John P. Sexton  Rosemary Onderdonk  Judy Gibson  
Louise Litzinger  Pat Larry  Camelis J. Coleman  David Cortright  Janet Rose  John C. Hom  Howard J, Saz  Wanda Clayton  
Raymond Sepeta  Linette Watkins  Tamara Chapman  Dorothy Coil  Michael Lykondis  D. A. Krieger  lnderChand  Jay Louderback  
Susan Good  John J. Hlavaty  Diane Bandurski  Judy Mahoney  Matt Zyniewicz  J. W. Plohetski  Maheshwari Sitaram  Denise Louderback  

The members of the Give Kids a Chance Coalition are gratified by the strong support ofundergraduate students who sponsored a petition campaign in Farley and Siegfried Halls. The following individuals signed a document supporting the establishment of a child care facility on campus. 
Jennifer Thompson Kim Steel Monica Garcia Amber Loyd Michelle Martinez Margaret Holland Caire M. Konopa Tara Hardin Carolyn D. Olson Cars Conway Susan Dognaux Nimi Gonsalves Lise Beaudoin Kirsten Dunne Andrea Cavanaugh Lorenzo Lamadrid Donna Trauth Betsy Frigo Anne Marie Quest Molly Crosby Erin Kelleher Kathleen Collins MaryYu Michelle Osmanski Sarah Kranz Julie VanTien Gretchen Ganc KoryKlem Amy L. Holthouser Jenny Ford Michelle Rovang Bernard Fife Klmberly Orga Belen Serrano Meghan Blake Nancy Studnicki Tish S. Powell Ivonne Justus Kristen Clark Michele Kleeta Sarah Kohls Kristin Appelget EmilyB1um Indira 'l)tler Shannon Guiltinan Becky Eifert LibbyTheby Marianne Palabrica Melissa Halac Jessica Ovel Katie O'Conner Shannon McCarthy Sheila Buckman Caryn Kikta Juliet Dickmann Anita Covelli Gina Smith Jennifer Furey Meredith L. Policinski Katie Wood Michele Cummings Andrea Sullivan Michelle BS~Tett Lioa Schmitt Jennifer Schenher Margo Burtchaell Diane Wagrowski Diane O'Connor Amy Baruch Kristi Misiewicz Heather McMurray Luara Trozzolo Megan Burtchaell Mary Kate Kelly Kelly O'Neill Jodie Flint Jeanmarie Murtagh Erin Quinn Angela Pearson Sandra Wiegand Ashley Kocevar Laura Makowski Karen Houk Rosalinda Reyes Catherine Sheehy Colleen Knight Diane Peters Eileen Donovan Marie Hauck Liska Stefko Claire Johnson Susan Bushnell Angie Bates Samantha Spencer Stacy Jones Erin Mullen Eileen Murphy Rachel Meuleman Amalia Meier Colleen Michuda Lisa Kriner Alicia Caputo Stacy Waldron 
C. Mulinaui Kathleen Aurigemma Kathy Sullivan Linda Keefe Kristi Quinn Amy Bacigalupi Michelle L. Griffin Julianne Gade Danyell Wright Katey Andrew Jennifer Swize Jill Miller Suzanne Juster Jennifer Woldt Elaa Scheidler Dionne Adams Maggie Walsh Will Price Kristin Farrell Patsy Brynjolfson Kate McLean Abbie Franke Margaret Haugh Laurie Bevelock Denisse Marion-Landais Julie Weniger MarceMeNeill Jennifer Mason Cynthia Crook Lisa Flanigan Heidi Weber Moira Muldoon Becky DeChellis Amy McAuliffe Erica Hall Danielle Gatti Jennifer Hampton Kathy Allred Cara Patton Becky Erickson Nora Whalen Joanne Jen 
A Special Note: The participants in the Give Kids a Chance Coalition wish to express our appreciation for the generosity of the many individuals who donated money to defray the cost ofthis ad and to the Graduate Student Union for their financial support. We apologize for any misspelling and for the omission over one hundred individuals whose signatures arrived after the creation of this ad. 

---------~ 

r-------------.--.--------------------------~·~----------------------------------.------------­
page 30 The Observer Friday, May 1,1992 
Connor defeated; Italy's II Moro beats New Zealand 
WhylsABook The Best Gift for Mom? 
One Size Fits All • No Assembly Required • Easy to Wrap Non-Toxk • Rt'cydable • F:asily F:xchangeahle User Friendly • Irs Not.l'erftmH' ComplimentarY Gift Wrapping Tool 
London $5t5• Frankfurt $655• Rome $715• TciAvN $765• Copcnh89cn $655• 
•F«es «e roundrip fa-depar1J.res up to Jl61e 15on schedJied carriers. International Teacher 

On Sale Today Only
IDs, Hostel c.Yds, om-seas l!l'lguage ~ for teachers. 
Council Travel 
f~>BOTOKPco£NT£R.
1153 N. De!l'bcm 5t., lind flocr <hica9o, II 60610 
We help yo11 find /JookJ Jlre 'II love. 
Inside the HUDDlE!
311-951-0585 
Ironwood Piau North • SIJI~ lto:td Z3 at Ironwood
Call For A Free 199!1 Student 
South ll~nd • Z77-4488 • Mon . .Sat.: 10:00.9:00 • Sun.: 10:00-5:00
Travel catalog! 
1O:OOam -5:00pm 
ONLY 
0 
The Water Watch is the first watch in 
Oifferent 
the world that runs on ordinary H20. 
Hot
Has Ditigal Time and setting buttons. To activate just add a few drops of water, 
Colors I 
to recharge just do the same. Eliminates 
costly batterys, comes in assorted colors 
~~SJ 
Medium Points, Black or Blue Ink
and styles. 
Watches come in circle face in blue with black ban, red face white ban, camouflage 
~nsore!l ~ 
survivor black ban with compass, black face blackban and purple face black ban. $16.00 + $1.75 for shipping. Add $1.00 more for camouflage. Send check orders to TBJ INC. 125 RUE MALLARME, SOUTH BEND, IND. 46615. 
The Notre !me MBA Entr,eneur aub
Allow 2 .. 3 Weeks for delivery. 

is now accepting application for the following position: Design Editors 
Paid Position 



SAN DIEGO (AP) -Dennis Conner talks a lot about the luck of the Irish. But there's something else that has kept him scrapping back in the 1992 America's Cup regatta against tough odds, mostly financial. 
"I like competing at anything, whether it's sailing or Space Invaders," Conner said Thursday morning before sail­ing Stars & Stripes against Bill Koch's America3 in the de­fender finals. 
"This is a chance for me to compete against the world's best, most powerful guys," said Conner, skipper of Stars & Stripes. "Everyone I'm out there against is a billionaire ­(Raul) Gardini, Koch, (Sir Michael) Fay, they all have un­limited resources. We're trying to do our very best. There's no excuse not to do your very best." 
Gardini heads Italy's II Moro di Venezia challenger syndicate and Fay, who's merely a multi­millionaire, heads the New Zealand challenge. 
Conner has some serious competing to do. America3 beat Stars & Stripes on Thursday to take a 6-4 lead in the best-of­13 finals. But he's in a better position than New Zealand, which was eliminated by II Moro in the challenger finals. 

This has not been an easy re­gatta for Conner. He has been outspent more than 4-1 by Koch, who built four yachts to Conner's single, year-old Stars & Stripes. 
A switch to a tandem keel between the first .lnd second rounds led to three straight routs before Koch allowed Trenkle recalled. "He was going to people in their respective areas, looking for better sails, a better keel, a lighter mast. He was always saying, 'Let's solve the problem. Let's not die 
here.~ 
Jerry La Dow, executive di­rector of Team Dennis Conner, agrees. 
"He's maintained an absolute stability," La Dow said. "He's recognized that we've been op­erating under certain economic handicaps. He's worked like hell to obtain resources, and accepted what came. He's worked within that framework, as has the whole team." 
Conner joined the San Diego Yacht Club at age 11. Besides the America's Cup, he has won several single-design world championships. 
La Dow remembers the young Conner. "He gravitated toward the 
best sailors and was constantly asking them questions and pes­tering them," La Dow recalled. "He always somehow got on the boat. He was also competitive and dedicated even at the early stage of his life." 
Sandy Purdon, the immediate past commodore of the SDYC, which is trustee of the America's Cup, has sailed with and against Conner. 
"Dennis just doesn't quit," Purdon said. "He has a tremendous ability to hang in there and do the right thing. He's just a hell of a good sailor." 
Conner "seems to be able to take in a lot of information and assimilate it and come out with the best decision," Purdon said. "Whether it's for a world championship or a local club regatta, he just prepares better than anybody else I've ever known." 

Conner to retrofit Stars & Stripes. In the third round, Stars & Stripes' $500,000 mast shattered. 
But Conner has come back, although never into a control­ling position in the finals. He won a race-off with Koch's Kanza to reach the finals, then was pounded in three straight races before winning four of the next five to tie it. America3 went back ahead on Wednesday. 
One big reason for Conner's comeback was light wind and low seas that Stars & Stripes favors. 
Conner cites his crew as an­other reason. 
"It probably starts with peo­ple," he said. ''I'm very fortu­nate to attract the finest people, and I've had them for a long time." 
Many of the Stars & Stripes' crew members have been with Conner for more than one America's Cup campaign. 
Tactician Tom Whidden, who also is the president of North Sails, and Bill Trenkle, opera­tions manager and sail trim­mer, have been with Conner since 1980. During that time Conner won the Cup three times and lost it once. 
"Tom Whidden and I have spent more time together in the last 12 years than we have even with our families." said Conner, a San Diego native who has been developing sailing intangi­bles since he was 11. "That's why we've hung in there, prob­ably because of the people. It's certainly not because of the boat. 
"People made this," he said. "People made the sails, people fixed the mast. It's a small group of very determined, ex­perienced, dedicated, loyal peo­ple." 
Conner didn't panic through the disasters, Trenkle said. "He was just trying to figure out what to do to go faster," 

--------~ ---~~---------­
-C OS 
Friday, May 1, 1992 The Observer page31 

Next Friday Night! 
7:00p.m. 
1992 National Conference 
on 
Medjugorje 
May 8-10, 1992 University of Notre Dame 
Medjugorje is a small village in (former) Yugoslavia that has captured worldwide attention since the appearances of the Blessed Virgin Mary to six young people beginning on June 24, 1981. Over twenty million people from all over the world have made pilgrimages to this remote mountain village. Our Lady continues to come daily as the Queen of Peace with an urgent plea for all humanity to pray, fast and be converted: "I am anxious for people to know what is happening in Medjugmje. Speak about it so that all will be converted ... .I have come to call the world to conversion for the last time. Tell the whole world, 
tell it without delay. Be converted and do not wait!" 
From Mother Teresa of Calcutta: 
"I'm afraid that I will not be able to come for the National Conference due to my health -though I will be with you with my prayer. We are all praying one Hail Mary before Holy Mass to Our Lady of Medjugorje ... Try to have one hour of Adoration during the Conference ... How beautiful that you are going to spend Mother's Day with Our Lady!" 
Featured Speakers 
Bishop Paolo Hnilica  The Honorable Alfred H. Kingon  
Confidant of Pope John Paul II  Former American Ambassador to Europe  
The Triumph of the Immaculate  Reagan, Gorbachev and Medjugorje  
Heart ofMary -Medjugorje & Fatima!  
Fr. Robert Fox  Fr. Rene Laurentin  
Author of over 30 books on Fatima  Author of 110 books (15 on Medjugorje)  
Our Lady's apparitions in 1917  The Family in Medjugorje  

7:00P.M. in the JACC at NOTRE DAME TIDS FRIDAY EVENING (MAY 8TH). REGISTER AT GATE 8 (JACC). (Saturday morning's Session begins at 8:00A.M., Sunday morning's Session begins at 8:45A.M.) Sponsored by Queen of Peace Ministries, P.O. Box 761, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219-288-8777) 
"I experience this war as a kind ofSatanism [the present war in (former) Yugoslavia] ...Some would gladly silence the Blessed Mother after ten years ofapparitions in Medjugorje so that no one hears her. Therefore, I consider this terrible war as God's warning for us all to convert {or our Croation people and the other peoples ofYugoslavia, Europe and the whole world to be saved." Archbishop Frane Franic 
,.... 
~ 
J 

-~--~-----------....---~-----­
page 32 The Observer Friday, May 1,1992 
SuperSonics knock out Golden State, 119-116 
SEATTLE (AP) -Ricky Pierce scored 27 points, and Gary Payton sank three free throws in the final 40 seconds as the Seattle SuperSonics edged Golden State 119-116 to capture their first-round playoff series 3-1 Thursday night. 
The Sonics will play the win­ner of the Utah-Los Angeles Clippers series in the Western Conference semifinals. 
Reserve Eddie Johnson added 26 points for Seattle, while Tim Hardaway had 27 points for Golden State. 
Pierce made a layup to give the Sonics a 114-113 lead with 
39.2 seconds left. After Hardaway missed a short jumper, Payton rebounded and was fouled by Sarunus Marciulionis with 25.9 seconds remaining. Payton made both free throws to give Seattle a 116-113 lead. 
After Hardaway missed a 3­point shot and Mario Elie missed a 20-footer, Shawn Kemp rebounded the ball for Seattle with 8.5 seconds left and Payton was fouled. Payton made the second of two free­
~~~~ulion~~temppu\~~d ~~; 
Warriors to within a point
when he sank a 3-pointer with 
4.6 seconds left. 

After Hardaway fouled Pierce, he made both free throws for a 119-116 lead lead 
with 2.8 seconds to go. Hardaway missed a despera­
tion 3-point shot just in front of 
The Sonics appeared to have the game under control with a 105-96 lead. But Golden State, which won 55 games during the regular season, fought back. 
The Warriors scored the next 10 points for a 106-105 lead with 3:54 to go. Hardaway broke a 112-112 tie with a free throw with 51.5 seconds re­maining, but missed his second free-throw attempt. 
Kemp scored 21 points for the Sonics, 19 in the first half. Elie added 22 for the Warriors. 
The Sonics won their first playoff series since 1989. 
Golden State scored eight of the first 10 points of the second half for a 68-60 lead, but Seattle came back to take the lead at 78-77 on Johnson's baseline jumper. 
Big West Goes Nationwide 
RENO, Nev. (AP) -The ath­letic directors of the Big West Conference have unanimously endorsed adding four indepen­dent schools as associate mem­bers to strengthen the league's foundering football program. 
The addition of Southwestern Louisiana, Louisiana Tech, Northern Illinois and Arkansas State was approved 6-0 in a conference call on Wednesday and will be acted on formally at the league's meetings May 11-15 in Las Vegas. 
If they are voted in, they would begin conference football play in 1993. 
"This definitely will strengthen the league," Nevada athletic director Chris Ault said. "It's going to happen. We'll definitely finalize it in Las Vegas. It's just a matter of ironing out a few items." 

Nevada left the Big Sky Conference to launch its first season of 1-A football in the Big West this fall. 
Other teams in the league are San Jose State, Utah State, UNLV, Pacific Stockton, New Mexico State, Long Beach State and Cal State Fullerton. Long Beach State dropped its foot­ball program last fall and Fullerton may do the same this year. 
Nevada joined the league after Fresno State bolted to the Western Athletic Conference. 
The consortium was pro­posed by Big West commis­sioner Jim Haney, who said he hoped to add two more Eastern schools. 
"This is a major step for the stability of our conference," Haney said. "It's a good ar­rangement for everyone in­volved. But we're not going to stand still." 
Haney would not name potential additions, but the Reno Gazette-Journal said on Thursday .that possibilities suggested by athletic directors include Tulsa, Tulane, Memphis State, Louisville, Cincinnati, Boise State and Northeast Louisiana. 
After the formal vote in Las Vegas, another conference call is scheduled May 29 to extend official membership invitations. 
Under the arrangement ap­proved on Wednesday, each school would play six league games, with the six current Big West members playing two Eastern teams each, one home and one away. 
If the league is further ex­panded to 12 football schools, Haney hopes to form two six­team divisions. 



The world is waiting for you! Let Active be your first stop. 
Loop Northwest 25 E. Washington 4800 N. Milwaukee Suite 1717 Suite 206 312.726-5771 312.736-8828 
ACTIVJI Tl!loiPORARY SI!RVICU, INC. 18 A CI!RTinKD Will: (WOMI!N'!! lll'!!!N£9!1 I!I'«I!~Rl81l) AND ltQUAL OPPORTUNITY l!loiPLOYI!R. 
We're just minutes from Notre Dame, Uni­versity Pari< Mall, the toll road and downtown South Bend. Our quiet community with spa­cious, well-kept grounds has a lot of appeal to the serious student. We offer 24-hour emer­gency maintenance service ... and we have an activities program that Includes fnte aero­bics classes, social functions, tee. .., sports and much, much more. 
Hyou're looking for the ideal off-campus home stop by today and we'll show you com­fortable, affordable apartment living! 
+llCKORU 
DlLLAYEI 
Efficiencies from $260 1-Bedrooms from $275 2-Bedrooms from $335 
-Featuring ­
+ 
Planned Activities Program 

+ 
Beautiful Clubhouse & Pool +Air ~onditioning +Disposal + Laundry Rooms 


+ Ba~:.etball Court 
+ 
Picnic Tables & Grills 

+ 
Volleyball Court + Gazebo 

+ 
Cable TV Available 


+ 24-Hour Emergency Maintenance Service 
*Ask about the Hickory Village Summer Breeze ... the easy and economical way to keep your apartment through the summer and still go home. 
272-1880 

Conveniently located on Hickory Rd., Just north of Edison 
_______ ~~~ Ho~:~~F!!:_9-7, Sat.~4 and Sun._E~ ______ _ 
VALUABLE COUPON 
Friday, May 1,1992 


MARIGOLD MARKET 
PtAN AIErofoR 
YouR GRivuA-nON 
CEtEERATION 
--~~­
PARTY PLATTERS 
Het<s D'oeuvRES 
BRU~H 0S lUNC:HEOr-1 

CONTACT OUR CATERING DEPARTMENT LASI MINUTE PART'< PLATTERS AVAILABLE 
McDonald's® announces••• 'Mc~oni® 
Big Mac® Double Cheeseburger Hamburger Cheeseburger French Fries Soft Drinks Iced Tea Coffee Egg McMuffin® Sausage McMuffin® with Egg Hash 3rowns Orange Juice Apple Juice Muffins 
Cookies 


~---~-~----.........--~~ --~--~------------· The Observer page 33 
Cavaliers eliminate Nets, 98-89 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -The Cleveland Cavaliers ended a 16-year playoff drought Thursday night with a time-tested postseason formula -tough defense. 
Reserve forward John Williams scored 10 of his 20 points in the fourth quarter, and the Cavaliers held New Jersey to 29 percent shooting in the final three periods, defeat­ing the Nets 98-89 for a 3-1 victory in the best-of-5 series. 
It was the second playoff series win in Cavs history and the first since 1976. 
Cleveland advanced to the second round of the NBA play­offs against the Boston Celtics, the most successful franchise in league history with 16 champi­onships and currently the hottest team with 11 consecu­tive victories. The first game is Saturday at Richfield Coliseum. 
Chris Morris and Derrick Coleman scored 22 points each for the Nets, who were 13 of 21 in the first quarter and 20 of 69 thereafter, including 3-for-20 shooting in the fourth period when Cleveland came back from a 73-67 deficit. 
Brad Daugherty scored 19 points, and Mark Price and Larry Nance 16 each for the Cavaliers, who matched Portland for the NBA's second­best regular-season record at 57-25. 
The Cavaliers never led until the 8:16 mark of the fourth quarter when Williams, who scored six points in the 11-2 spurt that opened the period, converted a layup for a 76-75 edge. 
After the Nets regained the lead at 79-78, Cleveland took the lead for good with six con­secutive points, including two jumpers by Nance. The closest the Nets came after that was 84-82, and the Cavs ended the game by scoring eight of the last 12 points. 
New Jersey led by 10 in the first minute of the second half before Daugherty scored nine points during a 22-13 spurt that pulled the Cavaliers to 63-62, the closest they got in the first three periods after the Nets started the game with an 8-0 run. 
But Coleman, who scored nine of his 11 third-quarter points in a span of 2:42, helped New Jersey rebuild the margin to eight before Nance's rebound dunk made it 73-67 with 34 seconds left. 

Chisox Derail Ryan Express 
CHICAGO (AP)-Nolan Ryan was wild in his return from leg injuries, allowing seven runs, five hits and five walks in 2 1-3 innings Thursday night as the Texas Rangers lost to the Chicago White Sox 12-1. 
Ryan, activated from the dis­abled list on Thursday and making his first appearance since opening day, also struck out three, raising his record career total to 5,518. 
The runs were the most Ryan had given up since July 25, 1990, against the New York 
THE 67TH ANNUAL CENTRAL COLLEGIATE CONFERENCE OUTDOOR TRACK AND FIELD CHAMPIONSHIPS 


Saturday, May 2, 1992 3:00pm-Field events 5:30pm-Final running events Krause Stadium, University of Notre Dame 
Competing schools include: Akron, Bowling Green, Bradley, Central Michigan, Cleveland State, DePaul, Detroit, Drake, Eastern Michigan, Illinois, Iowa, Kent, Loyola, Marquette, Michigan, Michigan State, Minnesota, Northern Iowa, Notre Dame, Ohio University, Purdue, Toledo, Western Michigan, Wisconsin 
FREE ADMISSION 

{\{\Id'S 
Friday & Saturday ONLY Midnight -2:00 a.m. 
LATE NIGHT DRIVE-THRU 
Only at McDonald's® Restaurant 1 51 9 N. Ironwood, South Bend 
Big Mac® Double Cheeseburger Hamburger Cheeseburger French Fries Soft Drinks Iced Tea Coffee Egg McMuffin® Sausage McMuffin® with Egg Hash Browns Orange Juice Apple Juice Muffins Cookies 

Yankees He made 64 pitches, just 28 for strikes. 
Ryan, 45, has been recovering from a strained left calf muscle and a sore right Achilles tendon. 
"I feel great," he said before the game. "I'm sure they'll be a pitching limitation, but it will vary if I have a long inning against any easy innings." 
But he didn't have any easy innings. Tim Raines tripled in the first and scored on Steve Sax's grounder for a 1-0 lead. 
Chicago added two runs in the second when George Bell singled and stole second, Ron Karkovice walked and Craig Grebeck and Raines hit run­scoring singles. 
Ryan walked Robin Ventura and Frank Thomas in the third, and Bell's single loaded the bases. Ventura scored for a 4-1 lead when Pasqua struck out on a wild pitch, and Ryan reloaded the bases by walking Karkovice. 
Floyd Bannister then relieved and got Lance Johnson to ground back to the mound, but Grebeck hit a three-run double, with all the runs charged to Ryan. 
Texas manager Bobby Valentine said before the game that his main concern was Ryan's health, not the result of Thursday's outing. 
''I'll feel a lot better after the game if he gets through this performance pain-free," Valentine said. "He'll determine how far he'll go. His legs feel good and he is still one of the best right-banders in the league." 
Ryan pitched just 4 1-3 innings on opening day in Seattle. 

.. 

..........._..._.....---~.....,__._...,_...__-----.---~--~ 
f 
page 34 
~ PW outlasts Walsh in lnterhall Soccer Action 
By MIKE HOBBES Sports Writer 

While many other individuals were taking full advantage of one of the few nice days that have graced the campus so far this spring, two female dorms were battling for the Women's Interhall Soccer Championship. 
Overcoming prior bad weather and tough competition, Pasquerilla West and Walsh Hall arrived at the last step in their journey. To get to the final, Walsh had managed a 3-1-1 record during the regular season with two more wins in the tournament. P.W., on the other hand, was able to boast a regular season record of 4-0 during the season with two tournament wins and an impressive six shutouts. 
The game was only minutes old 
when Amy Gerlacher, a P. W. 
sophomore, took advantage of 
a sluggish Walsh defense to 
notch her first goal. After 
barely giving Walsh a chance to 
regroup from her first score, 
Geralcher found herself in the 
middle of wild flurry in front of 
the Walsh net. With a quick 
sharp shot, Gerlacher nailed 
her second goal. 

"Today I had good day. I was in the right spot at the right times and put the ball in the net," said Gerlacher. 
) For the remainder of the half. 
P.W. 
kept attempting to lind a hole in the Walsh defense. but it recovered from its initial slow start and shut down the 

P.
W. offense. 



"Despite it bning such a beau­tiful day, we were not in the be­!{inning of the game. After we adjusted, wn were unable to capitalize on our scoring op­portunities" said Walsh co-
Meet 
continued from page 40 

petition. the homefield advan­tage and the motivated seniors could combine to allow for a stunning Notre Dame upset. 
"All the seniors have been talking about the meet all week," said senior Shawn Schneider. 
Pat Kearns, one of those se­niors, has set a lofty individual goal for the weekend. 
-. 
"Last year in this meet," he noted, "I set the track record for the lOK. This year, I'd like 
to lower that mark even more." 
Asked to remember the sea­son highlights. Piane again stressed the importance of this weekend's championships. 
"This season," he said, "the Central Collegiates, the National Invitational (May 9), 
... and the Intercollegiate Amateur Athletic Association of America (ICAAAA) meets are what the season's been geared toward. Hopefully, we haven't reached our high points yet.n No matter what place the Irish team comes in this week­end, they hope to add to their list of ICAAAA qualifiers. The list already includes Dean Lytle (200 meter dash), Mike McWilliams (10,000 meter run), John Coyle and John Cowan (3,000 meter steeplechase), Todd Herman (high jump). Jon Smerek (discus), and co-captain Ryan Mihalko (javelin) . 
coach Rich Riley. 

As the second half progressed. both teams had prime scoring opportunites but neither could convert until midway through the half when Walsh ended P.W.'s shutout streak. Laura Lavigne took the honors in finding a gap in P.W. 's defense to score what would be Walsh's first and only goal. 
"We are a good team, but to­day we just had a little trouble in matching up with P.W. They had so many people that they were able to wear us down," said Walsh co-coach Mike Fitzpatrick. 
As the game came to an end, fatigue, which had set in on many of the players, had the fi­nal say. as the game ended 2­1. 
"We played with alot of inten­sity, but it was that same inten­sity which really slowed us down as the game wore on," said P. W. midfielder Amy Wentling. 
"Having lost last year in the tournament, we really wanted to win it this year. Granted. we built an early lead, but we had to fend Walsh off for the rest of the game," said junior P.W. midfielder Christy Cook. 

nt CAIM.l 
PANCAKE HOUSE 
f ~ 
Try our new OVEN BAKED 4 EGG JUMBO VEGETARIAN OMELETTE Filled with Onion, Green Peppers, Mushrooms, Diced Tomatoes, and Broccoli 
Open 7 Days a Week 
At 6:00A.M. 
..............................................o:.a..............................._. 
The Observer Friday, May 1,1992 


U.S. 31 North In Roeeland 
(Aero. From The HoUday Inn) 272-7433 Juat North of Cam ua 

Arazi given tough position at Derby 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) -Now there's another reason to call Arazi a superhorse if he wins the Kentucky Derby on Saturday. 
Arazi drew the 18th post po­sition in a 19-horse field in Thursday's entries, and only one horse -longshot Gato Del Sol in 1982 -has ever won from that spot. 
"I prefer 18 to one or two," trainer Francois Boutin said. "Anyway, there's nothing I can do about it." 
The French-based Arazi stamped himself a potential wonderhorse last Nov. 2 when he went from eighth to first on the final turn and won the 
Cubs 
continued from page 40 
offensive support. 
Five months remain in the 1992 season, however, and baseball is a game of streaks. 
The only thing streaking in the Cubs organization, how­ever, are tears down the face of general manager Larry Himes. Pitcher Mike Morgan, Himes' big off-season acquisition, has stumbled to an 0-2 start. The worst ERA award goes to 1991's big · off-season acquisition Danny Jackson (6.39), who has won only one 
Serving ND/SMC Students for 27 Years 

MAY SPECIAL OUR HOUSE SPECIALTY OVEN BAKED PANCAKES $.50 Off All .Month (No Coupon Needed) 

........ -. ---.......... --__•____..... _____ .,...,._.,.., __.__ ___ .. 
Breeders' Cup Juvenile here at Churchill Downs. That lone race earned him 2-year-old of the year honors in North America. 
"If he's enough horse to sit back there and circle the field again, he is truly a super­horse," said Lynn Whiting, trainer of Derby longshot Lil E. Tee. 
According to jockey Pat Valenzuela, he's "enough horse." 
"You just push a button, and he accelerates like you were pushing the button on a rocket," Valenzuela said. "Everyone else will be running for second." 
ADDITIONAL SuMMER ScHOOL CouRSE 
......................... 
Creative WritingFiction 
ENGL 301w:O1 1:30-2:30 MTWTF 1 W. O'RouRKE 1 Aworkshop devottrl to the short-and shorter-forms of fiction writing. There will be assignments early on to produce aflow ofwork; then one longer story and its rewrite will be requirOO. Ananthologyofshortfictionwillbeused. 
DART CALL #0613 
AP 

game since he came to Chicago last season. 
The Cubs are in trouble. 
Don't ask the front office to make any changes, however, because there's no telling who they'll unload. Don't forget that the Cubs traded Dennis Eckersley and Lee Smith, now two of baseball's premier relief pitchers. They also sent Rafael Palmeiro, a solid .300 hitting left fielder to Texas, and no ad­equate replacements have been found for any of them. 
But that's all in the past, and if the Cubs hope to return to the glory days of 1908, they will have to do it with their current personnel. That's a pretty tall order and the Cubs appear to bP short on pitching and hitting. Without those two elements, it becomes rather difficult to win games. 
Don't be surprised if the Cubs lose 100 games this season. But always be faithful to the north siders. because they may surprise you next year. 
Opening day 1993 is only 340 days away. 


.._. 

--~-----~ ~------------------·~~--­
Friday, May 1 , 1992 The Observer page 35 
man, all I have to say born in the same hospital? year-But the coach with the 'fro he Roomies of 344 Farley (Cousins is...Providence???; and last, but 6.)Sheila, Gina, and Sarah-Here's had no fear-With Bennett, Sweet 1&2 & Shannon)-Bonne chance on
Class 
certainly not the least, to Martin, the to the Random 6-woman! and a guy named Tower-A big finals. Have a great summer! Come 
continued from page 23 
Anyone going to be in Durham, NC next year? Looking for a roommate. Call Amy X2860 
THE WASHINGTON D.C. CLUB 
"GOING HOME TRUCK" 
-PICKUP­
THURSDAY, MAY 7(1-5PM) 
FRIDAY, MAY 8(1-5PM) 
AT STEPAN AND LYONS 
BASKETBALL COURTS 
-DROP OFF­
SUNDAY, MAY 10(12-6PM) 
AT MONTGOMERY MALL 
QUESTIONS?? 
CALL PAT #3597 
FREE SUMMER FLA. VACATION If you are male and under 23 yrs. old, write for details to: Mark P.O. Box 14288 Jack­sonville, Fla. 32238 
To Jaime, Perry, lzzy and Gibb-you guys are still fast and sh-t; Jen B.­thank you for being my personal shrink for the last three years; Veronica (and quad)-you're terrific; Duane and Dede-where were those boxers?; Dude-another year, more tennis; To John Rock and Captain Stanley-we, of course, will rise again; to Jenny Marten, Melissa, Cyn, and the people who kept me sane in this damn office-bless you all; to my newfound Hungarian friend-all the best for next year; Bo­[continued next column] DJ who spins the tunes and has to put up with the most crap from me-l wouldn't trade the year for anything­we'll be back on the MGD soon. Heartfelt love and gratitude to all of you, without whom I would undoubtedly have been the biggest basket case. I owe you lots. Love ya, RICH Next year will rock. 
P.S. MCATS suck. 
SISTER CHAIN AT CLUB 23­SATURDAY NIGHT! II 
Are You From Northern Idaho or Washington State? 
A luggage truck will be running from 
N.D. to Spokane and Seattle after graduation. Limited space is still available! Call Lisa X3153 of Theresa X2935 ASAP for reservations. 
1024-1 025-1 026 FLANNER TOWER (1989-92) The end of an era... A University computer made us roommates. Good times and bad times made us friends. May we stay that way forever. 
Paul. 
P.S. Feel free to stop by and sit in the "Air Flanner" seats anytime. 
Mony-the week is over: Whew! Keep smiling, and good luck on that one final you have (must be rough!) Only 15 more days. . . -Nell EVERYBODY COME SEE THE SISTER CHAIN ON SAT. AT CLUB 23 AT 10 P.M. 
"THE SISTER CHAIN" 
CLUB 23, SATURDAY 
10:00 P.M. 
"Now it's time to say goodbye ....... ." to: 1.) Carrie -Are we going to discuss it next year? 2.)Mary -That something always works out! Right? 3.)AIIison -Is that the way the TV does? 4.) Jon-Marvin, this is mama. Did you turn on the sprinkler? 5.)Cameron-Did you know we were [continued next column] 
?.)Cath and Kelley-Jeepers is all I have to say! HA!HA! 8.)Luke, Mike and Pat-I'll be back as 12-pack next year, so watch out! 9.)Mary and Ag-Let's make some more Baharna Mama's! YUMMY YUMMY! 10.)AII of 10D-I hope I gave y'all a few laughs this year as I SLOWLY increased my tolerance! Goodluck on finals and have a great summer! I'll miss ya'll! See ya in August! 
Love, jill 
LEPPAD greetings to my love (& my lover). For 6 solid months we've 
· had only each other, to HAVE & to hold & to kiss & to smother. Do you think you could ever settle for another? Hmm...could I? I often wonder. Who else could have your fur,your "grr"? And who else could make me PURR? 
A little ode to N.D. Athletics 
Yo, Notre Dame is the place to be­So cheer the Irish on to victory­When I say Irish, I mean be proud­'Cause our teams are tough and we draw the crowds-We got the spirit, we're a family-At Notre Dame, the place to be 
I'm QB Rick, they call me Golden Boy-My arm's a rocket, man it ain't no toy-l'lllead the team and the fans will cheer-And we'll be number­one next year-So gather round and you will see-That Notre Dame is the place to be 
Men's hoops struggled to start the [continued next column] Phonz dunk it had the power-So they reached the finals of the NIT-At Notre Dame, the place to be 

Man, I got the power and I'm the AD-Dick's my narne and I own the money-1 made the call and with a wham-I blew away the wrestling program-If you bring in the dough, then I'll be happy-At Notre Dame, the place to be 
To be the best that is our goal-We can be found in any poll-There's commitment, tradition, and Irish pride-So who cares if Sports Illustrated thinks we're snide-Just be glad this ain't Miami-Since you're at Notre Dame and it's the place to be 
We're the Fighting Irish, we're E!lue and Gold-We are the best so I've been told-On the court, the track, on field or grass-We'll whip your butt and kick your ass-Sports under the Dome are extraordinary-At Notre Dame, the place to be Note-a couple paragraphs were cut to protect the innocent. ADIOS 
HEY BLACK SPANDEX LINEBACKER BABE!!! HEY BLACK SPANDEX LINEBACKER BABE! II RED DRINK MUSTACHE ICE CREAM IN YOUR HAIR '92 DIPLOMA IN HAND CLOSET WALL CAT SUPREME IT'S BEEN THE YEAR OF YEARS BABY, THANK YOU FOR IT ALL. MEET YOU ON THE BOAT AT THE LAKE. LOVE, RAUL & STAN back ready for the Fall 1992 EP hunt! I'll drop ya a postcard when I get to the Outback! Peace. Luv, Amy, your fav council member 
26" Mitsubishi Color T.V. wood grain cabinet w/stereo sound and remote. $250 obo call @289-6439 
THE BLENHEIM FINANCIAL GROUP WILL SOON RULE THE WORLD 
D I 
s 
S LOOK FOR THEM F IN AN AFTER FINALS U BLOWOUT! N K 
T 
I 
0 
N 
got any extra grad tix? call Iarissa 289-7829 
2 couches for sale--cheap! call289-7829 
PALACE LAUNDRY 
Sat., May 2-Bridget's 
Pretty cool. 
see CLASS/page13 

ongrats Erin Montgomery You're 19! ONLY 2 more years 'ill you're legal 
1-m-m-m 
Love, Mama M, Tom-bo, Molly, Darrel, Goldie & Sam 
OPEN 
Tua. -Scat. 5:00,.. The J1,(L 
Excellent 
l ncUan Cuf.sf.ne 
RESEiil'.lTUJWSm:wu;lJ I'111SOVJ1liEND..tl'E. (EDUmc alU.S. 2X) 
Track 
.continued from page 40 
control. The weather last week was cold and miserable, and it rained heavily for most of the meet. ,Sarah Riley, who will be running the 1500 meter race, made it clear what the team 

(211)271-0IJS really wants, as she said,
===========================• "Basically, we're just hoping
...E BOSTON BAGGAGE 
the weather wm be better so 
a D
PICKUP: 
-

BEHIND BOOKSTORE on MAy 7 FROM 1:00-3:00PM DROPOFF• 
• 

SUNDAY MAY 10 FROM 12:00 -3:00 PM (Usual Spot) 
* PAYMENT MUST BE MADE ON PICKUP DAY (Thrs. MAY 7). 
More info is co~·ting in the mail. X1398 
we can get some better times." The distance/middle distance corps, which has paced the 
team all season, will again be looked to for leadership. Along with those running in the 1500 and 3000, two women will be competing in the 5000 meters-freshman standouts 
Eva Flood and Kristi Kramer. 
With the entire squad will be making the trip, the stage is set for a good showing. 
recycle 

Shoney's All-You-Care-To-Eat Soup, Salad & Fruit Bar now costs 
TO All THE PARTICIPANTS, OFFICIAlS AND STUDENT EMPlOYEES 
just $2.99 Monday through Friday from 11:00 am to 3:00 pm. Choose from over 50 delicious items, including fresh fruits and 
WHO HElPED MAKE THIS AGREAT YEAR AT RECSPORTS
vegetables, mixed salads and a choice of hot, homestyle soups.=s:c~~~~ f~~~~~~~;. ySou feNw to
alsoHgetOa extraErrun~·u~tes Shoney's Soup, Salad & 1~ Fruit Bar. It can help keep you slimmer and keep 
your wallet a little fatter. SOU~ SAlAD I FRUIT BAR ® 
Offer available for a limited 11me at participating Shooey's. I 
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 


~~~~-~-~--------------~ 
The Year in Review 
page 36 Friday, May 1, 1992 

=-,....=;_=.:~:.._• .. ,~~~ ~=----~:1~= 

~iii 
2 

"Irish get in finale, upset Gators, 39-28" 
Sports 
The green-clad 

upH1 G.ators 3t-28 
and underdog Notre Dame football team upset the third­ranked Florida Gators in the USF&G Sugar Bowl, 39-28. Game MVP Jerome Bettis scored three touchdowns to lead the Irish. 
~-"'-­
January 15, 1992 


1 
"Wrestling program gets the axe" 
Notre Dame Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal announced that wrestling is being discontinued as a varsity sports offering at the University effective with the end of the 1991-1992 season. 
April 13, 1992 
Top 10 Sports Stories 
011991-92 
3 
"Dilucia climbs to Volvo rankings' summit" 
After being ranked in every Volvo Tennis! Collegiate Ranking during his four years at Notre Dame, Irish senior David DiLucia finally became the top-ranked collegiate tennis player. 
April 22, 1992 


6 "Women boaters gain first national ranking at 16th" 
Sports 
The Notre 

W¢num boo1cr~ 9iliil firSt 11.ii:i'i0ildl rBnkirtQ at 16th 
Dame women's 


soccer team opened the 
season with a 
10-0-2 record 
and gained their 
first ever 
national ranking. 
October15, 1991 

9 
"Women's hoops loses top freshmen" 
Sports 
Freshmen
e.._,·::<'~':~·a .'·'· ,,,,,, "''''"'"'"'' Michelle 
Marciniak and Audrey Gomez 
~·
. announced they were transferring from the University. Marciniak decided to go to Tennessee, while Gomez reversed her decision and will stay at Notre Dame. 

March 25, 1992 

"·---~­
4 
"Irish, Cavs to battle for NIT title" 
Sports 
The Notre 
$l"xa:i~--~~-g---·:. 
tMit:l1 IOJ 'SIM.-:lng ~ISh Dame men's !!/"~ 
basketball team 
concluded its 
unlikely march


.,;.. 
in post-season 
Irish, Cavs to baltle lor Nil title 

play, reaching the finals of the NIT where they eventually fell to Virginia in overtime. 
April 1 , 1992 

7 "Notre Dame's Mike McWilliams named All-American" 
Sports 
Sophomore 

~fliiM)i'li\lo* MeWIIII•tniii1iunod AII·Am~tk•" 
Mike McWilliams 
placed 17th at 
the NCAA 
Championship 
Cross Country 
meet to earn all 
American 
honors. 
November 26, 1991 


10 
"Men shock #2 UCLA in thriller" 

The Notre Dame men's basketball team pulled off one of the biggest upsets in the history of the Joyce ACC, knocking off previously unbeaten UCLA, 84-71. 
February 24, 1992

• 

5 

"Irish teams ready for post-season" 
Sports 
Both the men's 

!t'.~ ----------~---··· .:~-=..:..:...,.;;
:3:;.. ft Irish teams ready for poslsNson 
and women's 

·-·-'ti ':":...."2;.""1jjiif-illli :=.:::"" 
basketball teams 

'' ~--· ~-~-:;:1 prepared for post-season play. I The 14-14 men 
' 
received an NIT 
berth, while the 
women won the 
MCC title and 
received an 
automatic NCAA 
bid. 
March 17, 1992 
8 

"Notre Dame plays host to NCAAs" 

Notre Dame hosted the NCAA 
't ,.-..,.c,i ''' '1..-~(i~~:·•ltll 
Fencing
•Wli!l!Wl

...~·:· ""~.."";~~:-""'tl!""tll""fM• Nolrt! Oamt pleyJ ho'51 !o NCAA~; 
Championships for the seventh 
WWLJt:.lt'.il1.1iil.IM 
time. The Irish 
placed fourth 
overall at the 
meet and Notre 
Dame's James 
f"'ill"'?!F1L!!I!II!II 

:-.: ;:-.. :· ·:.:. ~~~1:!-uks. ~:'?ore pe~!o¥:'1'=ar·<:a Taliaferro was named to the All­American team. 

March 20, 1992 
Editor's Note: Mike Scrudato and John Rock served as editors for this section. Selections were made by members ofThe Observer Sports department. 
Friday, May 1,1992 
The Observer page 37 
Softball splits two with Walker's career round puts her in
tough Blue Demons 
Centellead 

By JIM VOGL Irish beat in last year's finals, Assistant Sports Editor stands on top of the conference TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) ­at 7-3. 
Former Florida State star

Winless in their last five In the second game, Staci 
Colleen Walker shot a career­games, the Notre Dame softball Alford tossed a four-hit shutout best, 8-under-par 64 Thursdayteam finally gained some mo­to gain her 11th win on the to take the first-round lead in mentum before defending their season against seven losses, the $1.2 million Centel Classic. 

Midwestern Collegiate Con­while entering the contest with 
Walker, one of four former ference championship crown. a tiny 1.26 ERA. Seminole players back in their college hometown for the tour­
The Irish broke out of a hit­"Staci's been throwing very nament, finished on the front ting slump, pounding out ten well but she's had some heart­nine with a 5-under-par 31. hits against DePaul starter Kim breaking one-run losses. Her "Right now I'm a little bit Blackmore, to get the 2-0 win record's not as good as last numb," Walker said. "I don't think it's sunk in that I've had
in the Windy City. year, but she's only had one or this low round." 
The Blue Demons took the two sub-par outings all year." 
Walker needed only 27 puttsfirst game, 1-0, on a shutout by during a bogey-free round. 

Suzanne Wiegner, who allowed The Irish stranded seven run­"It was kind of strange," she
just two hits. ners in the game, but capital­
said. "I was trying to get it 

ized in the fifth frame. Ruth close to the hole and they just
"DePaul's one of the best Kmak and Lisa Miller began fell in today. It just happened." teams in the Midwest," said things with singles. Then, after Walker, who has won one Notre Dame coach Brian a sacrifice, an intentional walk tour event this season and five Boulac. "For us to go in and to Sara Hayes, and a ground­in 10 years as a pro, said she split two, that's a big boost for out, Stephanie Pinter capped enjoyed being on a familiar us. We haven't been winning the rally with a base-hit up the course. 
"It's always good to come tothose one-run games." middle, scoring both runs. 

Tallahassee," said Walker, whoNotre Dame, currently 5-3 in Pinter, a sophomore first-visits often in the autumn to

the MCC, will need to win both baseman from South Bend, had The Observer/John Bingham 
watch her alma mater's foot­

games against conference foe two hits in the game, as did Irish first baseman Stephanie Pinter collected two RBI's as the Irish 
ball team. 

Dayton, today at 3:30 at Alumni freshman designated-hitter salvaged a split in Thursday's games against the DePaul Blue Demons. 
Michelle Estill was two shotsField. Detroit Mercy, whom the Andrea Keys. 

,. ---BRING THIS COUPON TO QUALIFY ---., 
I I
BUY at INVOICE* What are you so happy
I I 
about? Your birthday's 
I NO & SMC $cSolleQgeQGraduates 1 
not untilJune. Surprise!! 1 Students and Faculty Rebate... 1 Here's an ad anyways. 
I tiEi§lf ~ I 
Happy 21st Birthday 
I ~~'""'""' I
~~ r a Hyu~nda>~__ c.?Wichelle 'Devers! 
I~-~-..• -.•I
r· 

r :• 1 '' rnu•Tr:~n•
I any new FORD or HYUNDAI '""""I Love, Mom, Dad & Mark
lor o.tails contact: BASNEY FORD 1
..AJIARK HOUSER .&L 1 HvunoRa 1 Phone 291-6910 
r"• ~ mmm 32o EAST IRELAND w)AD 1 Sales Representative souTH BEND. IN.466,14 
1
I •Rebate to deder; Ptus tax. doc.. title and tags. ••Ford vehicles only. 
----BRING THIS COUPON TO QUALIFY ---­
back at 66 and Alice Ritzman, winless in 14 seasons on the LPGA tour, was at 67. 
Estill had one bogey, but needed only 26 putts and matched her career low. 
"I'm not known as the great­est putter in the world," said Estill, a second-year pro from Phoenix. "The greens rolled well." 
Ritzman took four shots off par on the front side and claimed the early lead with a birdie at No. 17. 
"At least I'm off to a good start," said Ritzman, who has earned almost $900,000 in her career. 
Beth Daniel, the 1990 tour­nament champion, was among those at 68. 

Macri's Pizza & Italian Restaurant ta-Sandwiches-Stuffed Pizza Pies 
Carry out or Dine in 20% off pizza with this ad. 52303 Emmons Rd. Georgetown Shopping Center <next to Club Shenanigan's) 
~--­

ARCCORD YO~ CAN ~RCAK 
STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF NEEDED! 
HElP BEAT THE BIG TEN RECORD 
fOR MOST PEOPlE AT AN AEROBICS ClASS 
,_ 

FRIDAY, MAY 1 4:30PM STEPAN FIELD 
(IN CASE OF RAIN-LOFTUS CENTER) 
r r.r 1 1 J. r· r· ,.,.,. rrr ~rrz-rt· r1·7 r r rrrrr r r r r r r r·rr r r ,.,. ,_,.,.._~ ..T ,_, 1 t 1 r r .r ...... , r· ,._.,. ·t. '~ ·\-'''' •'1=rlt.•''-·..,"-·.,._·~ ....,...._ ..... ,..,.""':f. ~-~'--..."'• .._'*'~'•••..,""&•••••••.-••""•'•"•'"••••·····•••·· ., ........,.,....-....... ._.• .a • • .a.· ....... • .,,.. 
page 38 The Observer ·.· . . Friday, May 1 , 1992 
Irish baseball triumphs over E. Michigan, 6-1 
BY JENNY MARTEN 
~ Associate Sports Editor 
~ 
I 
I On a perfect afternoon for baseball, the 24th-ranked Notre Dame base.I:Jall team (30­
12) extended its win streak to six games with a 6-1 win over Eastern Michigan (15-23) yes­terday at Jake Kline Field. 
"It was a good win," said Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy. "Our pitching has kept us in ev­ery game so far. Tom Price was 
, throwing strikes. He has re­bounded after struggling early in the season." 
Price (5-1) earned the victory on the mound with 7 2/3 in­nings of work giving up one earned run on five hits. The lefty struck out four Eagle bat­ters in the game while only walking one. 
"It was a pretty good outing for me," said Price. "I was able to get ahead on batters all day." 
Big hitters Eric Danapilis and Joe Binkiewicz only had one hit apiece, but scored all six of the Irish runs. Eastern Michigan pitchers Matt Hammett (3-4) and Shawn Winston served up twelve walks collectively; Danapilis and Binkiewicz col­lected three walks apiece in the game. 
In the first inning. Danapilis singled and Binkiewicz took a Hammett fastball deep to right for the two-run homerun. The Irish added another run in the third when Binkiewicz and Danapilis walked. Cory Mee ad­vanced both into scoring posi­tion with a sacrifice to set up Steve Verduzco's RBI. Verduzco hit a grounder that Danapilis beat out for the run. 
Notre Dame increased its lead to five in the sixth as the Eagle offense faltered. 
"Tom pitched a great game. but it makes it easier when the other team's not scoring," said Mee. 
In the sixth, Danapilis and Binkiewicz walked again this time setting up Mee's run­
.. scoring single which brought Danapilis across the plate. Pinch hitter Adam Maisano's long drive was snagged by cen­terfielder Mike Wisely, but the Eagles couldn't touch Bob Lisanti's double which scored Binkiewicz. 

.>\ a 
Eastern Michigan finally got run on the board in the 
eighth when two singles put runners on base and Irish errors brought Eagle Jim Bostock across the plate. 
The Irish got the run back in the bottom half of the eighth with, you guessed it, walks to Danapilis and Binkiewicz to open the inning. Mee laid down a sacrifice bunt to move the pair into scoring position. Pinch hitter Edwin Hartwell hit a long sacrifice fly to center to score Danapilis and give the Irish a 6-1 advantage. 
"Hammett is their number 
one guy and he likes to give his opponents little nibbles. If you're patient, you can get some walks. It was a tribute to our hitters that we were patient and got on base," said Murphy. 
Irish junior Dave Sinnes notched his third save of the year after replacing Price in the eighth inning. The right­hander allowed only one hit in an inning and a third. 
Today, the Irish meet Cleveland State for a double­header at 1 p.m. at Jake Kline 

I've worked 21 years to become a wrestler and now there's no team!! Happy Birthday Monica Yant. 

We love you, Mom and Dad 

ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS! 
If you will be involved in volunteeer work or Social Service for the year (or more) after commencement, please stop by The Center for Social Concerns or sign up on the form in each dorm. Important information is being gathered for the Senior Volenteer Send--Off. Don't be left out! 
TODAY IS THE FINAL DAY TO SIGN UP! 
Please sign up even if you have not yet accepted a program. 
Any Questions? Call the CSC (239,5293) or Jill(x4910) or Eric(x1099) 
and this weekend Notre Dame travels to Detroit Mercy for a four-game Midwestern Collegiate Conference series. The Irish will be lucky to keep the win streak alive through the weekend. , 
"Detroit-Mercy always plays us tough," said Murphy, "And the conditions will be adverse." 
Red Wings Cap Big Comeback 
DETROIT (AP) -The Detroit Red Wings, behind the dramatic goaltending of Tim Cheveldae, became only the ninth team in NHL history to overcome a 3-1 deficit when they eliminated the Minnesota North Stars with a 5-2 victory in the seventh game of the Norris Division semifinals Thursday night. 
Detroit will open a best-of­7 series against the Chicago Blackhawks on Saturday night at Joe Louis Arena for the division title. 
It was the second time the Red Wings had overcome a 3­1 deficit to win a playoff series. They rallied to oust Toronto in the 1987 division finals. 
Sergei Fedorov, Alan Kerr and Gerard Gallant each scored in the second period to take the Red Wings to a 3­0 lead. Bob Probert and Shawn Burr scored in the third period. 
Brian Bellows stopped Cheveldae's string of scoreless playoff minutes, which included shutouts in Games 5 and 6, at 188:36 with a third-period power­play goaL Minnesota's Mike Craig closed out the scoring with 51 seconds left in the game. 
Minnesota goalie Jon Casey, whose hot hand took the sur­prising North Stars all the way to the Stanley Cup finals a year ago, also played well. But he was no match for the determined Red Wings, who finished first in the division. 

Two beautiful bikini babes! Happy Graduation Michele! ND I992 Good Luck Melissa! SMCI99S 



Baccalaureate Mass are available!!! 
Pick up order £or...s in all dora.s a £ro... Educational Media 
Educational Media 
University of Notre Dame 
Room 9 of the CCE Bldg. P.O. Box 1088 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
219 • 239 • 5465 

'. 

Friday, May 1, 1992 
SPELUNKER 
GAV£ JEN AGOIN~· 
AWAY PRESENT 
FOR TljE. SUMME-R. 
OVER:JO'/ED, JIN (jAVE HANK A BIG. HU~. NOW 
TH£ £MOTIONAL FLOOD 6AT£S r!AVE 
l3f~N FLUNGt 
WID£ oPt:N, INU1 PASSION 
lNCARHAT£1 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
PMJL Gl\IJG\JIN 1\S¥:.~0, 
' 'tiiW.tK£ \)() W.'C CO~£' 
WI-lt..I A~ \'-IE? W\\t.RE 
f>..R't. 't-1£. GO\~? • 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
SPIN 
T6Cf8y 
page 39 
JAY HOSLER 


You•ve got10 get-+his· unsii:tcl')!.. fl1ye,99 sac 
b(eai\ any moment 

High drama at the Arthropod Trade Center 
MENU  
NOTRE DAME Cajun Chicken Breast Sandwich Vegetable Egg Rolls Broiled Turbot  SAINT MARY'S Potato Pancakes Lemon Dill Perch Fillet Cheese Tortellini  

ACROSS 
1 Sort of block­shaped 9 "I wouldn't ­for the world" 15 Fancy flourish in JOHN MONKS handwriting 16 Hydrocarbon found in natura 1 gas17 Creator of "Gargantua"18 Reddish-brown 
pigment19 Pulpy fruit 20 California live 
oaks 22 Total 23 Swampy areas 25 -Andronicus 26-out a living 27 Founder of psycho­
analysis 29 Actor Duryea 30 -offering 31 Deviser of famous 
IQ test 33 Hake fun of 34 Expert at sleight 
of hand 38 Hebrew tribesman 39 Nabisco cookies 40 Chemica1 prefix 41 Ch~mical suffix 
The Observer Wishes Everyone Good Luck on Your Finals! 
Collegiate CW83-3 

42 City in southern 9 High plateaus 
.France 10 "-a far, far 46 Give up better thing ... " 47 Part of a coat 11 "Ain't -Sweet" 49 Senior: Fr. 12 Ancient language 50 Ending for lemon 13 Derogatory remark 51 -vobiscum (the 14 Certain union 
Lord be with you) member 53 Specific dynamic 21 Sister 
action (abbr.) 24 Abate 54 -Tin 26 Large global region56 Household gods of 28 As said above 
the ancient Hebrews 30 "Don't -it" 58 Native of ancient 32 Never: Ger. Roman province 33 -casting59 Using one's 34 Posters imagination 35 -reading 60 Hade of inferior 36 That which builds a materials case 61 Combined with water 37 Foliage 41 "I think, there-DOWN fore-" 43 Poor stroke in many
1 Back of the neck sports 2 Tremble, said of 44 Salad green 
the voice 45 Sewn together 3 Suave 47 Boy's nickname 4 Halt and hops 48 Enticed 5 Anger 51 Past president of 6 "-Get Started" Mexico 7 Committed hari kari 52 West German state 
(colloq.) 55 Spanish aunt 8 Satchel Paige's 57 Organization for specialty (2 wds.) Hr. Chips 


-
....... 
~ 
~ 

"Hey! C'mon, Jed! ... Ease up on thern_~ammersl"
,----------------·-----------==========~===~ ~~f'§NEf PICTURES 
l 

Friday, May 1st 
I 
j

BeaUty 
Saturday, May 
J 
' 1 

8:00pm and 10:30 pm Cushing Auditorium 
Beast 
.,
Admission is $2.00 


Sports 



-
, .. 
Trailing the Pittsburgh Pirates by eight games with 142 left to play, the Cubs could certainly make a run at the divi­sional leaders. but the way it looks right now, they may nevAr score again, let alone win a game. 
If the Cubs and Pirates continue at their 
current pace, Chicago will finish around 
64 1/2 games out of first place, not bad 
for a team that compliments a weak 
pitching staff with an offense that 
couldn't score if Homer Simpson was 
pitching. 

In three games against Atlanta this week. the Cubs could manage only 12 hits while being held scoreless for 27 consecutive innings. 
Hoss Perot's bank account doesn't have that many zeroes. 
The frustration has been building all season long in Chicago. After a harmless pop up in a crucial situation on Easter Sunday, Cubs broadcaster Harry Carey let out some of his frustrations. 
"That wouldn't have been a home run in a phone booth," he said with disappointment in his voice. 
The Cubs haven't been able to hit one out of a phone booth since then. and the Braves didn't even let them get inside the door. 
Atlanta does boast an impressive pitching staff, but Chicago's lineup is not without capable hitters. 
Shortstop Shawon Dunston has gotten off to an uncharacteristically fast start, hitting .327 in the month of April. Centerfielder Sammy Sosa hasn't exactly been a force at the plate, but his speed and natural athletic ability make him a viable offensive threat. 
Then there's the meat of the order, which stacks up against any in the league. Baseball's richest player. Ryne Sandberg, is simply one of the game's most consistent hitters, and cleanup hitter Andre Dawson has been a proven run producer during the autumn of his career in Chicago. Then there's first baseman Mark Grace, a pure hitter with a swing that makes him look like he was born with a bat in his hands. 
Despite these offensive threats at nearly every position, the Cubs still can't seem to put runs on the board. 
It wouldn't be so bad if they were losing 9-8 everyday. Nobody expected Cub pitching to shake up the baseball world. But twice in the last two weeks they have dropped 1-0 decisions. Don't misunderstand, the pitching staff wouldn't scare the Kansas City Royals, but when they do pitch well, they get no 
see CUBS/page 34 
INSIDE SPORTS 
r::-::::-----:-:-----r----------. By JIM VOGL 
•Baseball 
Wins again see page 38 

•P.
W. takes IH soccer see page 34 

•softball 
splits with DePaul see page 37 

•Grace 
wins lax championship see page 28 


Assistant Sports Editor 
A bombshell hit the Notre Dame wrestling team on April 1Oth, and just as its fragments were finally beginning to settle when another hit. 
One big piece, 177-pound sophomore 
J.J. McGrew was involved in the latest development. 
According to the Chicago Tribune, McGrew, who will most likely land at Oklahoma State, about an hour away from his hometown of Cleveland, Okla., was allegedly involved in NCAA violations when he was being recruited regarded being Ohio-Wesleyan and Villanova. 
see LAX/page 28 

Notre Dame track teams face big tests 
Women head to Muncie again 
By JOSEF EVANS 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's track heads back to familiar ground this weekend. 
For the second week in a row they will be competing at Ball State University in Muncie. 
The competition will be strong, with four other area colleges competing-Miami (Ohio), Indiana State, Western Michigan and host Ball State. 
"It will be competitive," assured freshman Stefanie Jensen, but she was confident that the Irish could perform well. 
Surprisingly enough, in a sport which stresses individual accomplishment, she felt team­work was the key to success this weekend. 
"There are four Irish (runners) in my event. If we all run 
together and set a  quick pace, ~l$:!1#&~iff.; ..:.  
we  have  a  good  chance  to  
dominate the race."  

She will be competing in the 3000 meter race, along with Diana Bradley, Lisa Gorski, and Maureen Kelly. 
Jensen will be leading the way for these women, as she is coming off a first-place showing in the event at last week's invitational. However, she felt her performance was not all that it seemed. "My time wasn't that great. Everyone was holding back be­cause of the weather, so people were just running for a good place." 
Indeed, the most important factor in the women's success at this meet may be beyond their 
see TRACK/page35 
Photo Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Captain Ryan Mihalko will lead the men's track team at the Central Collegiate Conference meet at Krause Stadium on Saturday 
Alleged NCAA violations hit regrouping wrestlers 
out of high school in 1988. 
The accusations were by former Irish wrestler Andy Radenbaugh, who told the Tribune that McGrew used University facilities while attending Holy Cross College in 1989-90, and lived with assistant coach Rick Stewart for several months, a charge which Stewart denied. 
According to the Tribune, Notre Dame Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal said the University investigated the matter violated NCAA rules by doing so, but the workouts did not occur during formal practices. 
No evidence was found that McGrew lived with Stewart. 
McGrew could not be reached to 
Men host Cent. Collegiates 
By RIAN AKEY 
Sports Writer 
After a seven weeks on the road, that included stops in Florida, Texas and Iowa, the Notre Dame men's track team will find itself in a special place for this weekend's meet-home. 
Notre Dame plays host to the Central Collegiate Conference Championships this Saturday, and the Irish are happy to be home. 
Head coach Joe Piane dis­cussed the advantages of run­ning at home. 
"It's a real positive for the kids to run in front of their friends, and, in some cases, their parents. Plus, there's the added 
fact  that  we  don't  have  to  
travel."  
Senior  co-captain  Brian  

Peppard added another plus to the Irish list. 
"Since it's the last home meet it will help motivate the se­niors," he commented. "They will want to run their last meet at Notre Dame the best they possibly can." 
Hosting the Central Collegiates does have its disadvantages, however. These include running against nine-time defending champions Eastern Michigan. 
Can the Hurons be beaten? 
"I'm not sure if they can," mused Coach Piane. "They're like competing against the Chinese Army. They have so many good kids." 
Other teams to watch out for, according to Piane, are Michigan and Michigan State. 
Even with the powerful com-
see MEET/page 34 
comment on the allegations, but wa.s contacted earlier about his move to Oklahoma State. 
''I'm looking forward to the warm weather and seeing some old faces," said McGrew, already a two-time NCAA finalist participant. 
Two of those, coaches John Smith and Kenny Monday, are Olympic champs who will be going for the gold this summer in Barcelona, Spain. 
"The hardest thing is leaving my friends here," said McGrew, who will now settle for his second choice out of high school. "Oklahoma State is one of the two best programs in the country 
see MATS/page 28 









