
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 62 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Boutros-Ghali recommends limited force in Somalia 
Snow said he believed the
Expolosions damage U.N. trucks in northern Iraq 
mass grave contained the remains of about 17 5 Vukovar GENEVA (AP) -Explosions "The situation is still very cia!, at the U.N.'s European city is about 200 miles north of 
hospital patients who 
damaged six trucks that took confused," the official said. He headquarters, said the trucks Baghdad. 
disappeared from the hospitalU.N. relief supplies through refused to speculate on reports were part of a 25-truck convoy Nov. 20, 1991, a day after Iraqi-held territory to the capi­that the explosions may have that had left Diyabakir, Turkey, The Iraqi Kurdistan Front is­Serbian forces concluded their tal of Kurdish-occupied north­been caused by time bombs on Sunday. sued a statement in Washing­
three-month siege and 
ern Iraq, a U.N. official said to­attached to the trucks by Iraqis ton, D.C., saying Turkish drivers captured the city from Croat day. No injuries were reported. loyal to President Saddam Hus­The trucks were in the CARE from the convoy said they had forces. 
The U.S.-donated wheat seeds sein. Australia warehouse in Irbil, been stopped at Iraqi 
Snow reported finding the 
and wheat flour on two of the the capital of the self-pro­checkpoints on their way to remains of young men, some 
trucks were destroyed, said the U.N. armed guards in the claimed Kurdish republic in Irbil and were taken away for official, who spoke on condition U.N.-protected zone of Iraq are Iraq, when the explosions questioning by Iraqi officials. see GRAVEpage 4 of anonymity. investigating, he said. The offi-occurred, the official said. The 
Supreme Court declines to revive Guam anti-abortion law 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The issue: whether federal judges Supreme Court sustained have the authority to deal with women's basic right .to abortion abortion clinic blockades. Monday, voting 6-3 against re­"Today's action was hardly viving a 1990 Guam law that unexpected," said Burke Balch would have prohibited nearly of the National Right to Life all such operations. Committee, which opposes 
The justices refused to review abortion. "It underlines the lower court rulings that had reaffirmation of Roe vs. Wade." declared the U.S. territory's David Andrews of Planned sweeping law unconstitutional. Parenthood said his group was 
Monday's action, which ac­relieved by the court's action tivists on both sides of the na­but added, "It does not address tional debate had expected, the underlying problem of se­marked the first time in 20 vere restrictions" the court has years the high court declined to let states impose on women review a major abortion dis­seeking abortions. pute. The court last June reaffirmed 
But a new case, testing how the core holding of its landmark far states may go in making 1973 Roe vs. Wade decision­abortions more difficult to ob­that women have a 
The Observer/ Maureen Long 

tain, already is before the jus­constitutional right to abortion.
Rack 'em up 
tices and could be acted on as But the June decision also said 
early as next week. states may raise new hurdles
South Bend residents Jason White, Christopher Holten and Travis Logan challenge their Notre Dame Big 
Brothers to a game of pool yesterday in the LaFortune Gorch Game Room. The Big Brothers/ Big 
The court also is wrestling for women seeking to end their 
Sisters Association is a service-oriented campus organization in which many students participate. 
with another abortion-related pregnancies. 
Yeltsin's dissolution of Party leadership upheld 
MOSCOW (AP) -A court ganization. Monday upheld Boris Yeltsin's Both sides claimed victory decree dissolving the top lead­following the decision, which ership of the Communist Party, came as delegates to the but the compromise ruling also Congress of People's Deputies gave ammunition to his oppo­arrived in Moscow. nents on the eve of a crucial Hard-liners who had chal­parliament session. lenged Yeltsin's ban had hoped 
Russia's Constitutional Court the court would declare his de­ruled 11-2 that the Russian crees unconstitutional and pro­president acted constitutionally vide grounds for his impeach­when he banned the party's ment by the parliament, which Politburo and other national convenes Tuesday in the bodies after the failed hard-line Kremlin. coup in August 1991. Because the ruling was mixed, 
But the 13 black-robed judges the impact on the 1,046­said millions of rank-and-file member Congress was Communists -who played no uncertain. role in the coup -could While the chances of Yeltsin's resume grassroots activity and removal appeared slim, the file lawsuits to reclaim some of partial reversal of his ban could the vast party assets Yeltsin still spark an impeachment nationalized. proceeding and boost the 
The court left open the possi­
see YELTSIN/page 4

bility that Communists could gradually rebuild a national or-on the brink of starvation, loyalty of their militiamen anonymity. He emphasized that according to U.N. estimates. would evaporate. no decision has been made and 
But gunbattles between So­In Washington, a Pentagon that the U.S. forces would only malia's warring clans and ma­source said a three-ship, 1,800-move if the U.N. approves al­rauding gunmen have made it member U.S. Marine Corps lowing them to report to a U.S. dangerous, and at times im­contingent slated for duty in the commander on the scene. possible, to deliver the hun­Persian Gulf is prepared to set Andre Erdos, Hungarian dreds of thousands of tons of up an airstrip landing zone in ambassador and current presi­donated food and supplies. Mogadishu suitable for U.S. dent of the 15-member U.N. 
The country's warlords say troops. Security Council, said there was they want nothing more than to The ships could be ready to a risk of a U.N. military force end Somalia's suffering, but move into the city by Thursday, 
see SOMALIA/page 4 

without the looted supplies, the the source said on condition of 


Mass grave in Croatia is investigated 
VUKOVAR, Croatia (AP) -At a desolate cornfield outside the blasted city of Vukovar, U.N. officials are preparing to exca­vate a mass grave in a probe that could lead to the first war­crimes trials of the Balkan conflict. 
The grave, said to hold the remains of up to 300 Croatian soldiers and civilians, was found by U.N. investigators in October about four miles southeast of the city in eastern Croatia. 
Thousands of shells fired by the Yugoslav army and Serbian paramilitary forces reduced 
The Observer/ Maureen Long 

Vukovar to rubble last year. 

'Tis the season 
An estimated 2,500 people 
Swept up in the holiday spirit, Mike Luongo decorates a poinsettia 
died, converting the city into a 
with a Christmas bow yesterday at Irish Gardens in LaFortune 
grim symbol of the six-month 
Student Center. These festive flowers are popular during the 
Serb-Croat war that claimed at 
Christmas season. 
least 10,000 lives. 
U.S. forensic expert Clyde 

UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali on Monday rec­ommended limited use of mili­tary force to deliver humanitar­ian supplies to starving Soma­lia. 
He did not rule out an Ameri­can offer to commit 30,000 troops, but indicated a prefer­ence for a U.N.-led force. 
"I am more than ever con­vinced of the need for interna­tiona! military personnel to be deployed in Somalia," Boutros­Ghali said. "The Security Coun­cil now has no alternative but to decide to adopt more forceful measures to secure the human­itarian operations in Somalia." 
Since dictator Mohammed Siad Barre was ousted in Jan­uary 1991, more than 300,000 Somalis have died from the combined effects of famine and warfare, and 2 million more are 
l l 
' 
page 2 Tuesday, December 1, 1992 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Find the time to see the signs of our world 
"Oh. people. look around you. the signs are everywhere. You've left it 
or somebody other than you to be the one to care. "-Jackson Browne. 
The holidays are approaching and, con­


sidering how much Jennifer Guerin anticipation Thanksgiv-Asst. Accent Editor ing sent through your burnt-out brain cells, ________ they couldn't get here sooner. Considering all the work you have to do, however, those burnt-out brain cells are wishing an eternity would gracefully interject itself between now and December 19, allowing you time to salvage both your sanity and your precious academic career. 
"Let's face it," you might be inclined to say. "I don't have time to think, never mind care, about anything but schoolwork." And so you proceed through your days under the dismal South Bend skies patting yourself on the back i you complete your reading and finish your assignments more than 15 minutes before class. 
Now, engage in this thought experiment . 
For just a moment, reconsider the priorities of your little college world. Wake up tomorrow and instead of cursing your workload, be thankful you're alive. Be thankful you have a place to sleep and food to eat. Be thankful, as depressing as it may seem, that your family is not engaged in a bloody battle to save its homeland from being torn apart by religious and ethnic conflict. 
We are a generation bombarded with so many images that we find it difficult to sift through them to find what is true. Unable (or unwilling?) to spend the time to resolve the world into its many, distinct units, we start "udging the state of the world by a few stark headlines we glance at in passing by the stack of newspapers that we don't have time to read. 
Considering the gravity of most of today's international news stories, it is tempting to ignore them for the sake of maintaining personal happiness. Considering the size and population of the United States, it is difficult to know what is happening in each state, never mind the rest of the world. 
But living in a big country is no excuse for living in a small world. 
To say our generation lives in a bubble would be both callous and inaccurate. But many o us have been lulled into the addictive rhythm o college life. 
Denying the existence of the world's problems is an insult to both our intelligence and our compassion. By better informing ourselves o national and international affairs, we will realize that our own personal and academic struggles are miniscule compared to the struggles of our brothers and sisters around the world. 
Academics shouldn't be placed on the back burner for the sake of reading a newspaper., but we must find time to educate ourselves, manage our busy schedules and make time for the rest of the world. We can personally audit the class of life, which consists of no papers or tests. The only pre-requisite is an open mind and you will lose some of that academic stress by realizing that millions of people out there have more to worry about than how to get through final exams. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 
News  Production  
Sandy Neigand  Kathy Fong  
Bevin Kovalik  Kira Hutchinson  
Accent  Systems  
Mara Divis  Harry Zembillas  
Sarah Doran  Chris Caracciolla  
Terry Edwards  Business  
Sports  Pancho Lozano  
Brian Kubicki  John Connorton  
Susan Marx  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

H  L  
35  23  
49  29  
66  48  
72  54  
44  31  
37  30  
62  34  
41  32  
44  29  
57  46  
55  47  
74  48  
66  43  
35  28  
·20  ·18  
45  27  
•'3w York  46  36  
Paris  57  52  
Philadelphia  48  32  
Rome  63  48 


COLD WARM STATIONARY 

Seattle 41 39 
South Bend 38 32 
Tokyo 61 46

[i:i]
L ~ Washington. D.C. 45 32 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL Clinton to court freshmen lawmakers 
•SUMMERLAND, Calif. -President­
elect Clinton is considering a trip to Washington next week to court freshmen lawmakers who could help him push through a quick-action agenda in Congress. Clinton's trip would probably come early next week amid House organizational meetings, said a senior Clinton aide, who spoke 

on condition of anonymity. During his campaign, Clinton pledged to take sweeping legislative proposals to Congress within 100 days of taking office. He is expected to turn to the House's huge freshman class-there will be 110 new representatives next year -for help in getting his jobs, education and health care plans through. House freshmen are potential allies to Clinton because many of them were voted in on a call for change, just like he was. 
China recruits Russian technology 
•LOS ANGELES -China is recruiting Russian tech­nology and scientists wholesale to develop state-of-the­art weapons programs, private and Bush administration experts said in today's Los Angeles Times. "The Chinese are trying to transfer a high-technology industrial base from Russia to China," a senior U.S. official told the Times. "It's both people and technology, for new guidance systems, cruise missiles, anti-submarine warfare missile testing." China has set up recruiting offices inside Russia and has hired hundreds of technicians there for Chinese plants, the unidentified 
U.S. officials said. "The Chinese have been moving fast on this, because they are convinced that the United States and other Western countries eventually are going 
OF INTEREST 
•NDCIBD Marketing Division will meet tonight at 7:15 
p.m. in the ISO Lounge, 2nd Floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
•"Winter Holidays Around the World" continues with Fireside Chats Wednesday, Thursday and Friday 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING November 30 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 230,066,311 +0.73 to 237.45 

S&P COMPOSITE +1.19 to 431.35 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +22.96 to 3,305.16 
GOLD +$0.30 to 5334.30 oz 
SILVER +50.016 to 53.731 oz 
to put pressure on the Russians to stop," said Paul Godwin of the National Defense University in Washing­ton. 
INDIANA Cor~ses dumped in Newton County 
CAMPUS World AIDS Day to be observed 
•NOTRE DAME, lnd.-Michiana residents can join the rest of the world in observation of the fifth annual World AIDS Day today. At Notre Dame, Father Ron Raab and Sister Ethne Kennedy will lead a service and reflection period in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Library at 8 
p.m. The services are held to remember and celebrate loved ones affected by HIV and to raise awareness of AIDS-related issues. The 1992 theme, "A Community Commitment," illustrates the need to motivate all groups to eliminate prejudice toward HIV-infected individuals and to cooperate in educating others on HIV and AIDS­related facts, according to R. Michael Beatty, director of AIDS Ministries/AIDS ASSIST. 
from noon to 1 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, with guest speakers relating their holiday experiences from across the world. Wednesday night from 7 to 9 p.m. th_ere will be tree decorating in LaFortune, pictures With Santa Claus and campus carriage rides. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1919: Lady Astor was sworn in as the first female member of the British Parliament. 

• 
In 1955: Rosa Parks, a black seamstress, refused to give up her seat on a Montgomery, Ala., city bus to a white man. 

•In 
1959: Representatives of 12 countries signed a treaty in Washington setting aside Antarctica as a scientific preserve, free from military activity. 

• 
In 1969: The U.S. government held its first draft lottery since World War II. 

• 
In 1989: Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev met with Pope John Paul II at the Vatican. 

• 
In 1991: Ukrainians voted overwhelmingly for independence from the Soviet Union. 


Tuesday , December 1, 1992 
Special to The Observer 
A Notre Dame Law School trial team took fourth place at the Cathy Bennett National Criminal Trial Competition in Newport, R.I., Nov. 5-7. 
The team of third year law students Mary Yu, Brian Alexander. Charles Rose and second year law student An­drea Roberts beat eight other law schools to take fourth place. They were coached by Adjunct Assistant Professor Sanford Brook, Adjunct Professor Jeanne Jourdan and lawyers Wendall Walsh, Paul Perralta, Barb Brook, Jennine Gozdecki and Joan Koros. 

The competition, hosted each year by the Washington, D.C.­based National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers (NACDL), involved a three-and­a-half hour mock trial on fed­eral drug conspiracy charges. 
In each round of the competi­tion, team members presented opening and closing arguments, examined and cross-examined witnesses, introduced physical evidence and argued objections and pretrial motions. 
The ND team tried the case four times in two-and-a-half 
The Observer 

days, including preliminary and semifinal rounds. 
The team from Stetson Uni­versity College of Law, located in St. Petersburg, Fla., won first place in the competition and took home the $2,000 prize after beating the second place team from the University of Alabama School of Law, which received a $1,000 prize. Georgetown University Law Center took third place. 
The trial competition, which was judged by 60 NADCL members as well as Rhode Is­land Superior Court judges Dominic Cresto, Corrine Grande 
page 3 

AIDS test prompts talk between student pairs 
.LOS ANGELES (AP) -Edu­cation alone fails to make col­lege students ask prospective lovers about AIDS, but adding an AIDS test gets their attention and makes such discussions almost twice as likely, says a study released Monday. 
But despite increased will­ingness to ask partners if they were infected, almost two­thirds of the students in the study still didn't use condoms, the researchers found. 
The findings suggest that when doctors teach patients about AIDS, they also should offer voluntary tests for the human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV, which causes the disease, said Dr. Neil Wenger, chief author of the study at the University of California, Los Angeles. 
Education and AIDS tests combined "should be central to public health interventions to stop the spread of HIV," Wenger and his colleagues write in Tuesday's issue of An­nals of Internal Medicine. 
But the results "in no way support the concept of manda­tory testing in any population," they added. 
The study is important be­
cause it shows that taking an AIDS test can make people more likely to ask if their lovers are infected, just like showing patients their chest X-rays reinforced anti-smoking messages, said Dr. Mervyn Silverman, president of the American Foundation for AIDS Research. 
"Sadly, however, we see how difficult it is to get people to wear condoms when having sex," Silverman said by phone from San Francisco. 
Wenger and his co-authors said that might be interpreted as a failure of AIDS education. But they noted that sexual activity among the students was fairly low, few had multiple lovers and asking if a potential lover carries the AIDS virus "may be more important than the sexual activities engaged in with that partner." 
The researchers warned, however, that lovers may lie about their AIDS risk, and that "the unaware might be lulled into unprotected sexual behav­iors by unscrupulous partners." 
AIDS, which kills by crippling the body's ability to fight other diseases, is spread during sex, and by sharing contaminated needles. 
HIV-infected man sentenced for having unprotected sex 

PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) -A man convicted of attempted murder for knowingly exposing a 17-year-old girl to the AIDS virus was sentenced today to 
ROME June 13 ~July 12 Travel in France, Germany, and Switzerland 
consecutive 16-month terms for giving the girl marijuana. 
The case was seen as a test of the use of existing laws to prosecute those who knowingly or deliberately expose others to HIV at a time when many states have passed or are considering laws specifically to cover that situation. • 
Before sentencing, Gonzalez complained about his convic­tion. "I feel it was an extreme ra­cial vendetta from ... " he said, pointing to the prosecutor and a police detective. "I was a guinea pig. The first time, why not?" Haggerty, who said he was unsure if Gonzalez would be medically capable of serving his entire term, said there was no racial or judicial prejudice involved. Jurors deliberated for about 7 1/2 hours over two days before 
reaching  their  verdict  
Wednesday evening.  
Deputy  District Attorney  

David Peters successfully ar­gued that Gonzalez, who did not warn the girl he was in­fected, was a danger to society. 
Defense attorney Karolyn March said she believed the conviction was racially moti­vated. The prosecution has a lynch-mob met:ttality, she said, and "the criminal justice sys­tem is not the area for a public health issue." 
~--------· ~-------------------~---------------~-------------., 
Tuesday, December 1 , 1992 The Observer page 4 
Tsongas confirms cancer Somalia 
BOSTON (AP) -Former Democratic presidential candi­date Paul Tsongas, who has twice battled cancer, confirmed Monday a new growth in his abdomen is cancerous. 
"That's the bad news," Tsongas, 51, said at a news conference. "The good news is that it's contained." 
The former U.S. senator said he will undergo chemotherapy and radiation treatment as early as Thursday, and that those measures should effec­tively remove the cancer, which he identified as large­cell lymphoma. 
"Now, is this the last one they'll ever find?" he asked. "Who knows?" 
Large-cell lymphoma is more aggressive than its small-cell 
Grave 
continued from page 1 
sticking out of shallow graves, in a 30-by-90 foot area at the top of a ravine outside the vil­lage of Ovcara. 
He quoted witnesses who said wounded civilian men and soldiers were separated from women, children and the elderly, and taken from the Vukovar hospital in Yugoslav army buses. 
In a barn in Ovcara, two of the 
PRICES FOR STAY-NOT PER NIGHT! 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ''"'"SJQ9
5 and 7 NIGHTS 

DAYTONA BEACH ""'"$ 68 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

! I 
PANAMA CITY BEACH f<om$ Sf 
5 AND 7 NIGHT$ 

STEAMBOAT 
''""'~129

t 
2, 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

I 
MUSTANG ISLAND I PORT ARANSAS ''""'SfJ2
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

HILTON HEAD ISLAND f<om$J2J 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

FORT LAUDERDALE f<om$J46 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS

t 
t 12th Annual Party! 

TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
t·800·32t~59tt 


counterpart, but is considered more effectively treatable with chemotherapy and radiation. 
Tsongas ended his Senate career in 1984 after he was diagnosed with non-Hodgkins lymphoma. His condition worsened despite conventional treatment, and he underwent an experimental operation in July 1986 in which some bone marrow was removed and treated to kill the cancer cells. 
Doctors also removed a lymph node that was found to have lymphoma from Tsongas' armpit in 1987. 
He said it was unclear if the latest growth is a recurrence of the earlier episodes. 
Tsongas said he was relieved to learn that the newest growth, discovered near his pancreas, was not pancreatic 
captives were beaten to death by Yugoslav Army soldiers and Serb paramilitaries, according to witnesses, who said they managed to escape. 
That evening, prisoners were divided into groups of about 20 who were trucked away at 15­to 20-minute intervals. The descriptions suggested they were taken to the ravine and killed, Snow said. 
The mass grave also is be­lieved to contain the remains of Croats raptured in the village of Bogdanovci, according to the cancer, which can be quickly continued from page 1 fatal. 
Tsongas angrily blasted news getting involved in a conflict reporters for implying he had with clans and armed gangs if tried to cover up his 1987 deployed in Somalia. illness, and for harassing his wife and 11-year-old daughter "If you want to get involved in "about whether her daddy had certain crisis situations like the cancer" as speculation raged 
about his diagnosis during the last week. 
Yeltsin

Doctors at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, where 
continued from page 1 

Tsongas was diagnosed, de­
former Communists who
clined to comment. The insti­
dominate the parliament,tute's spokeswoman, Gina elected before the Soviet
Vild, said a medical history Union's collapse. 
was being prepared at 
"The Constitutional Court'sTsongas' request and would verdict heats up political pas­be released. 
sions, having put an extra
"I have come to the painful trump card in the hands of de­conclusion that there's no way 
fenders of the Communistaround full medical disclo­idea," Monday evening's
sure," Tsongas said. 
one in Somalia ... you have to take a certain risk," Erdos said in an interview with British Broadcasting Corp. radio. 
He said military intervention was necessary because "it is impossible to find the right partners" in a country where central authority has totally col­lapsed. 
Izvestia said. 
Yeltsin's opponents have said they will try during the Congress to soften his economic reforms, force changes in his Cabinet and block a renewal of his decree-making power. 
The president made no public comment on the court decision. 
"We consider the ruling sat­isfactory," his adviser and polit­ical strategist, Gennady Burbu­lis, told reporters. "The Consti­tutional Court came through with flying colors." 

independent Belgrade weekly 
,..---------=-=----.lruJ~® dlM /o'l
Vreme. Up to 980 young Croats from 
TO ~<f~ Vukovar are still listed as missing, of whom about 320 
Urban Plunge students c:g. 
were shot on the spot when the 
@

city fell, Vreme said. 
who missed ~ 
"We have indications of dif­ferent mass graves and we are investigating the (Ovcara) site," 
Orientation 
said Blondina Francis Negga, a 
U.N. civil affairs officer in charge of the eastern Croatian region, where U.N. troops were deployed last March to support a Croat-Serb truce. 
Make-up meeting 
December 2nd (Wed.) 

4:00 -6:00 pm 
at the Center for Social Concerns 
For Single and Married Notre Dame and St. Mary's Faculty and Spouses 
Sunday, December 6 
3:00 -7:00 p.m. 
mmml!l 
IE!IDI llli!:ml3
... 
,._. CWrc.IM 

A time of quiet and personal reflection, tile retreat will include opportunity for 
Zl'f•ZJIJ.-1141 Ut•Ut•Ul't 
-

shared reflection. Presentatio11s will focus 011 tire biblical texts of Advent. 
-a-.
~·-­


Place: Fischer Graduate Community Center Cost: The retreat will conclude with a pizza supper for which there will be a $3.00 charge. 
1.1 
CALL BY WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, TO RESERVE A PLACE (?MPU~
MINISTRY 
Conlacl Fr. John Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Graduate Residences 239-8606 or Sharon al Fischer Community Center 239-8607. 

$2.99 

AND RECEM A COMPLIMENTARY SMALL SOFf DRINK OR COFFEE 

Tuesday, December 1, 1992 The Observer page o Disciplinary action sought for eight involved in firing missile at Turkish 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Top Navy officials have recom­mended that the captain of the aircraft carrier USS Saratoga and seven other officers and sailors face disciplinary action for the missile firing last month that killed five Turkish sailors, military sources said Monday. 
The recommendation for the men, including Capt. James Drager, is short of a court­martial but serious enough to effectively end their careers, several sources said. All spoke only on condition of anonymity. 
Drager was considered one of the Navy's top stars, and was the first helicopter pilot to have been named commander of an aircraft carrier. 
The recommendation is ex­pected to be made public Tues­day when the Navy releases its report in Naples, Italy, on the Oct. 1 accident. 
Two Sea Sparrow missiles were launched from the carrier and one struck the Turkish ship Muavenet during a NATO exercise in the Aegean Sea. The Muavenet's commanding officer was among those killed, and 18 crewmen were injured. 
One senior military source said the report, endorsed by Adm. Henry Mauz, the com­
mander of the Navy's Atlantic Fleet, says five of the Saratoga's most senior officers and three enlisted men should face "mast" procedures, which are non-judicial hearings through which punishment is meted out under the Navy's disciplinary system. 
Such punishments usually do not call for reduction in rank or pay, but more often take the form of official letters of repri­mand. After such disciplinary procedures, promotion is un­likely and officers or senior en­listed men or women generally leave the service. 
Killer of Exxon president gets life sentence 
TRENTON, N.J. (AP) -A former policeman who killed an Exxon executive in a botched $18.5 million kidnapping plot to finance a lavish lifestyle was sentenced Monday to life in prison. 
Arthur Seale received a maximum 95-year sentence for federal charges. Seale, who pleaded guilty to kidnapping and killing Exxon International President Sidney Reso, was denied any chance of parole. 
U.S. District Judge Garrett Brown Jr. also fined him $1.75 million, although the defense said there was little chance Seale could pay anything. 
Hours later, a judge in Mor­ristown ordered a life sentence with a minimum of 30 years before parole on a state charge of felony murder, or causing 
"Christmas fJime JLround the Wor{d'' 

1:Jecem6er 1 
'!Jv[r. Pictwic(s Stories" 
8:10P.M. --Washington :J{a{{ 
-* 0 ~ 0 ~ 0 ~ 0 ~ 0 
1:Jecem6er 2, 3, ant£ 4 
!Fireside Cliats 
"Christmas 'Ezyeriences from Yl.round the Wor{d" 'J{pon to 1 P.M.--'J{ptre 'Dame 1\gom, La~ortune ~ree Lunch Served! 
~ o J;flr o ~o • O-#-o 
1:Jecem6er 2 
Christmas Ce{ebration 
rrree rrrimming, Pictures with Santa, S{eigh 1\jdes, and f}?sjreshments--7 P.M. to 9 P.M. --La~ortune 
4$r 0 -W 0 ~ 0 0 ~ 0
-

JI[[events proucf[y sponsorec£ by tlie %u[ticu[tura[l£~ecutive Counci[ 


death in the commission of another felony. Judge Reginald Stanton also imposed a 15-to 30-year sentence for kidnap­ping. 
Seale will serve his federal sentence first. He would enter state prison only if he were re­leased from federal custody. 
Reso, 57, was shot in the arm during the April 29 kidnapping outside his Morris Township 
home, then kept handcuffed, bound and gagged in a box in a storage vault. He died May 3, and Seale and his wife, Irene, buried him in a shallow grave in Bass River State Park. 

Get Your Rallpasscs For 1993 at 1991 Prices! 
•lurlil Raii*S 5wAn 15 ~ $1101 •Youth Flaii*S15wfn2mooths $410' •Youth 1month pass $470' 
"Rates scheduled tort~ 115 much 115 1!0% on )11111,1993. Posses Issued In 1992 ore !fOOd fortr!N'CI, lfvalidetedwithln slx months from issl.lf! dote. 
Council TriM2I 
1153 N. Deabom St., Sfld Roor Chicago, 1160610 

311·951·0585 
Call for a Free copy of The Student Travels Magazine! 


! Sll\Nl.EY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 

1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 
page 6 The Observer Tuesday, December 1, 1992 
One arrested in fire-bombing 
BONN, Germany (AP) ­Pressing a crackdown on right­wing extremists, federal au­thorities said Monday they have arrested a 19-year-old youth on suspicion of murder in the fire­bombing deaths of a Turkish woman and two girls. 
The chief federal prosecutor, Alexander von Stahl, said at least one other person was be­ing sought in the attack that shocked the nation a week ago. 
The firebombing of the women's home in Moelln, near Hamburg, was the most brutal of nearly 1,800 rightist attacks that have killed 16 people this year. 
It triggered an international outcry over neo-Nazism in Germany and apparently spurred the government to step up actions against extremists in an effort to deflect criticism that violence is escalating out of control. 
Despite a parade of promises from Chancellor Helmut Kohl and other officials to crush right-wing violence, young thugs staged a series of attacks on foreigners over the weekend. Rightists blame an influx of foreigners for Germany's 
Militant black group claims responsibility for club raid 
KING WILLIAM'S TOWN, South Africa (AP) -A radical black group claimed responsi­bility Monday for a hit-and-run raid on a country club Christ­mas party, the worst attack on white civilians in South Africa 

since the 1980s. 
The attack Saturday night, which left four dead and some 20 wounded, has shocked the country's 5 million whites, who have lived in fear of blacks for generations. 
Black and white politicians quickly reaffirmed their inten­tions to press ahead with efforts to stop the violence. 
But the raid was a startling remainder that even tranquil backwaters such as King William's Town, a tidy place of wide, tree-lined avenues and Colonial-style houses, are not immune from the country's po­litical tumult. 
Some survivors said the as­sailants smiled as they rolled grenades into the dining hall and then mowed down middle­aged and elderly diners with automatic gunfire. Blood, wine, and food covered the dining hall at the King William's Town Golf Club, which was being used for a Christmas dinner and wine­tasting party. 
struggling economy, particu­larly the depression that has gripped eastern regions since reunification. 
A statement from Stahl said the 19-year-old, identified as Lars C., was detained Saturday and formally arrested Sunday on suspicion of murder, at­tempted murder and breach of the peace in connection with the arson attack in his home­town of Moelln. Formal charges had not been filed. 
Stahl's office in Karlsruhe said that a witness reported seeing the suspect at the scene, but that the teenager denied involvement. 
ARD national television iden­tified the suspect in a late newscast as Lars Christiansen. Residents of Moelln confirmed the name, and described Christiansen as a quiet teenager who kept to himself. 
"He did at times wear combat boots and had very short blond hair, but as a teacher I cannot immediately judge him to be a skinhead or neo-Nazi because of that," said Gerd Klemske, who said he had taught Christiansen. 
The prosecutor said another 

ATTENTION JUNIORS AND SENIORS 
ECHOING GREEN PUBLIC SERVICE FELLOWSHIP 
Are you different enough to make a difference after graduation? 
Would you start a homeless education project? Initiate a school dropout prevention program? Or work with street children in Brazil? 
Last year, some outstanding graduates chose to make those differences. So can you. 
Echoing Green foundation is looking for outstanding young leaders with vision and a spirit for public service. The Echoing Green Public Service Fellowship offers talent­ed and committed individuals the opportunity to turn their ideas into reality. The Fellowship provides a $15,000 stipend for one year to assist young public service entrepreneurs in launching innovative projects to effect social change. Projects may be started in any field of public service including the arts, education, housing, health,intemational development, youth development, or the environment. Your only limit is your creativity and energy! 
INTERESTED IN FINDING OUT MORE? 
person, whose identity had not been determined, was being sought in the killings. 
Last week, Stahl's office de­tained Michael Peters, leader of a radical rightist group, and eight followers for possible in­volvement in three arson at­tacks in northern Germany in September. No one was injured in those attacks. 
1\vo more suspected members of the group were detained over the weekend in connection with the September attacks, the office said Monday. 
Prosecutors had said they would investigate whether Peters' group was involved in the Moelln deaths, but the office said Monday that no evidence had been turned up to link any of the 11 to that attack. 
President Richard von Weizsaecker and Foreign Min­ister Klaus Kinkel met in Bonn on Monday with a delegation from Turkey to discuss the Moelln firebombing. 
Turkey has expressed great concern about the attack, and tensions are high among the 1.6 million Turks living in Germany. 
Come to: Day: Time: 
Dolly Saengswang, Program Director from Echoing Green will give an information session on the Fellowship and answer all your questions. 
The Hesburgh Library Lounge Tomorrow, Wednesday, December 2 4p.m. 
The Observer 

Tuesday, December 1, 1992 
Packwood in alcohol program 
wood staff members or lobby­
WASHINGTON (AP) -Sen. said. 
ists -have accused the four­
Bob Packwood will spend a 
term senator of uninvited and
week in an alcohol treatment "It will involve some blood program, but won't consider tests, some therapy, some ses­unwanted sexual advances over resigning and has hired an at­sions," she told The Associated the years. 
Oregon Democrats and a
torney to defend him in a pos­Press. 
coalition of women's groups
sible Senate ethics investigation "The facility is very trained in of sexual harassment allega­the use of alcohol. I'm not going have called for Packwood's res­tions, an aide said Monday. to say any more about it," she ignation. The Oregon Republican, said in an interview. 
whose whereabouts have been "We're not going to tell where But Packwood, who was re­kept secret for more than a he is, because he needs privacy elected earlier this month, in­week, voluntarily entered right now," added Josie Martin, tends to take the oath of office an aide to Packwood. in January and "give a 110
treatment at an undisclosed in­
percent effort in the Senate like 
patient facility on Sunday, his 
Ten women -former Pack-he always does," Franklin said. 
chief of staff Elaine Franklin 
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA JOSEPHINE HAYNES, et al., Plaintiffs. ) 
v ) No. PCA 89-30093-RV SHONEY'S, INC., et al., Defendants. ) 
NOTICE OF PROPOSED CLASS ACTION SETTLEMENT AND CONSENT DECREE 
TO: BLACK PERSONS WHO (1) UNSUCCESSFULLY APPLIED FOR EMPLOYMENT, (2) WOULD HAVE APPLIED FOR EMPLOYMENT BUT FOR THEIR BELIEFS OF RACIALLY BIASED HIRING PRACTICES AGAINST BLACK PERSONS, OR (3) ARE CURRENTLY OR HAVE BEEN EMPLOYED AT SHONEY'S, INC.'S CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS IN NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE OR ANY SHONEY'S, CAPTAIN D'S, LEE'S FAMOUS RECIPE, FIFTH QUARTER, OR PARGO'S RESTAURANTS OWNED AND OPERATED BY SHONEY'S, INC. 
Shoney's, Inc. and Raymond L. Danner have agreed to settle an employment discrimination class action lawsuit now pending in the United States District Court in Pensacola, Florida. The lawsuit claimed that Shoney's, Inc. and Raymond L. Danner discriminated against black applicants for employment and black employees at Shoney's, Inc.'s Corporate Headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee and at Shoney's, Captain D's, Lee's Famous Recipe, Fifth Quarter, or Pargo's Restaurants owned and operated by Shoney's, Inc. 
THE PURPOSE OF THIS NOTICE IS TO ADVISE: 
o 
OF THE STATUS OF THE LAWSUIT, INCLUDING A STATEMENT OF YOUR RIGHTS WITH RESPECT TO A PROPOSED SETTLEMENT OF THE CASE 

o 
IF YOU HAVE A POTENTIAL CLAIM AS AN APPLICANT, THE REQUIREMENT THAT YOU MUST MAIL A REQUEST FOR CLAIM FORM 

o 
IF YOU ARE A CURRENT OR FORMER EMPLOYEE, YOU MAY MAIL A REQUEST FOR CLAIM FORM IN ORDER TO ASSURE THAT THERE IS A RECORD OF YOUR CORRECT CURRENT ADDRESS 

o 
OF THE OPPORTUNITY TO FILE WITH THE COURT AN OBJECTION TO THE SETTLEMENT 


1. The Affected Classes. The following persons may be entitled to receive benefits, including a monetary award, 
established in the proposed settlement: All black persons who unsuccessfully applied for employment at any time between February 4, 1985 and November 3, 1992 at Shoney's, Inc.'s Corporate Headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee or at any restaurant owned and operated by Shoney's, Inc. (Applicants); All black persons who are current or former employees at Shoney's, Inc.'s corporate headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee or at any restaurant owned and operated by Shoney's, Inc. and who were employed in one or more of those restaurants between February 4, 1985 and November 3, 1992 (Current or Former Employees); and All black persons who would have applied for employment at any time between February 4, 1985 and November 3, 1992 at Shoney's, Inc.'s corporate headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee or at any restaurant owned and operated by Shoney's, Inc. but failed to apply because of their belief that Shoney's, Inc. engaged in racially biased hiring practices against black persons (Constructive Applicants). 
2. 
Terms of Proposed Settlement. Subject to Court approval, the plaintiffs and defendants have agreed to the entry of a Decree by the Court that establishes certain hiring goals, a settlement fund and certain injunctive relief agreed to in order to satisfy claims of the plaintiffs and class members and to pay attorneys· fees, costs, and other expenses of litigation and settlement. This relief will be in final settlement of all claims by the plaintiffs and class members against Shoney's, Inc. and Raymond L. Danner for claims of employment discrimination and/or retaliation because of race that were raised or could have been raised in this case. 

3. 
The Settlement Fund. The proposed Decree requires Shoney's, Inc. to establish a Settlement Fund in the amount of $105,000,000.00 for payments to qualified claimants and for payment of some expenses that will be incurred in the settlement and claims process, not including attorneys' fees. Pursuant to the Decree, Shoney's, Inc. also has agreed to pay Class Counsel's attorneys fees, costs and expenses. The Settlement Fund will be used to pay monetary awards to qualified class members who comply with the claims procedure required by the Court. The exact amount of funds to be paid from the Settlement Fund for which a claimant might be eligible will be determined by the claims procedure, eligibility requirements and other limitations set forth in the Decree. Payments to qualified claimants will be made over a specified period of time as required by the Decree. Constructive Applicants will generally receive the benefits of the equitable hiring goals established by the Decree but will not be eligible to receive a monetary award from the Settlement Fund. 

4. 
Claims Procedure for Applicants. If you are a member of the Applicant class mentioned above and want to be eligible for participation in the settlement, you must submit a written Request for Claim Form; a sample is printed at the bottom of this notice. THE REQUEST FOR CLAIM FORM MUST BE SENT TO THE COURT CLERK'S OFFICE AT THE ADDRESS SHOWN BELOW AND MUST BE POSTMARKED NO LATEA THAN January 11, 1993. If the proposed Decree is given final approval by the Court, you will be sent a specific Claim Form only if you have previously sent a Request for Cfaim Form stating that you may want to file a claim. Each claimant must complete and return the Claim Form in accordance with the instructions on the Claim Form. PLEASE NOTE THAT SENDING A REQUEST FOR CLAIM FORM OR RETURNING THE ACTUAL CLAIM FORM DOES NOT GUARANTEE YOUR PARTICIPATION IN THE SETTLEMENT FUND. 

5. 
Claims Procedure for Current or Former Employees. If you are a member of the Current or Former Employee Class, you may file a Request for Claim Form to assure that there is a record of your current address. Shoney's, Inc. will be mailing claim forms to all Current or Former Employees for whom Shoney's, Inc. has a valid, current address. Shoney's, Inc.'s records, however, may not contain a correct address. It is your responsibility to assure that Class Counsel has your correct address. 

6. 
Other Affirmative Relief. The proposed Decree also establishes goals for hiring Black persons in certain positions with Shoney"s. Inc., implementatiOn of an internal complaint procedure, training and educational programs, as well as other obligatiOns. 

7. 
Binding Effect. The proposed Decree, if finally approved by the Court, will be binding on all class members and will bar any person who is a member ofthe classes from seeking relief other than that provided for in the Decree from Shoney's, Inc. or Danner for claims of employment discrimination and/or retaliation because of race. Class members will not be allowed to exclude themselves from the tenns of the Decree. 

8. 
ObjeCtions to the Consent Decree. If you believe that the proposed Decree should not be finally approved for any reason, you may present your objection at a hearing on January 25, 1993, at 1:00 p.m. at the United States District Court, United States Courthouse, 100 North Palafox Street, Pensacola, Florida. Any member of the settlement classes who wants to object to the proposed Decree must file an objection and appear at the hearing. The objections must be filed in writing with the United States District Court Clerk's Office, with service of copies upon Class Counsel and for the defendants, on or before January 11, 1993. Any attorney who will represent an individual objecting to the Decree must file a notice of appearance With the Court and serve counsel for all parties on or before the same date. 

9. 
Clerk's Address. The Clerk's address is: Office of the Clerk, United States District Court, Northern District of Florida, United States Courthouse, 1 00 North Palafox Street, Pensacola, Florida 32501 . All Request for Claim Forms or other correspondence must state the name and number of the case, Haynes v. Shoney's Inc., No. PCA 89-30093-RV. 

10. 
Class Counsel/Further Information. If you change your address after sending in the Request for Claim Form, it is your obligation to inform Class Counsel in writing. Failure to report a change of address may result in a qualified claimant being barred from receiving the benefits of the settlement. If you have any questions about the Decree, you may call or write the offices of Class Counsel at the following addresses or call the toll free number listed below: 


Thomas A. Warren Barry L. Goldstein 501 East Tennessee Street/Suite D Saperstein, Mayeda, Larkin & 
P.O. Drawer 1657 Goldstein Tallahassee, Florida 32302 1300 Clay Street /11th Floor Tel. 1-800-950·1556 Oakland, California 94612 
They or someone from their office will talk to you free of charge. YOU MAY OBTAIN A COPY OF THE DECREE AT YOUR EXPENSE. TO OBTAIN A COPY, YOU MUST CONTACT THE OFFICE OF THE U.S. DISTRICT COURT CLERK AT THE ADDRESS SET FORTH ABOVE. 
11. Address of Defense Counsel. For purposes of serv1ng copies of any objections, the address for service on counsel for the Defendants is: James G. Ramsey, Farris, Warfield & Kanaday, Suite 1900, Third National Financial Center, Nashville, TN 37219 
If the Settlement is not approved by the Court, no money will be pa1d and the case will proceed to trial. However, there is no assurance that any later decision would be in favor of class members, and if it were, that it would be as favorable to the class members as this settlement. 
Dated this 24th day of November, 1992. Clerk of Court, United States District Court, Northern District of Florida, Pensacola Division 
Haynes v. Shoney's, Inc. -PCA-89-30093-RV (N.D. Fla.) REQUEST FOR CLAIM FORM 
NAME (Last) (First) (Middle Initial) 
PRESENT ADDRESS City State Zip Code 
HOME PHONE (Include Am Code) SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER 
MAII....IQ; TO RECEIVE A CLAIM FORM(S), CHECK THE BOX(ES) WHICH APPLY: Ofllce of the Cieri< 
APPLICANT: 0United Smtes District Court Northern District of Florida 
CURRENT EMPLOYEE: 0 United s-sCourthouN FORMER EMPLOYEE: 0 100 Nortll Palafox Street Penaac:ola, Florida 32501 
Signature 
page 7 


One out of two people who take the LSAT don't get into law school. To improve those odds, Practice with Kaplan now--so you can be a practicing lawyer later. 
Sign-up now for the February LSAT class! PHONE: 272-4135 
KAPLAN 
The answer to the test question. 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATION HIP? 

A workshop or couples in a senous relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage. 
THURSDAY. DECEMBER 3, 1992 6:30 -10:30 pm 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: 
-Stages of relationships -Expectations for the future -Steps in making healthy decisions 
THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS WORKSHOP 
' 

BUT... REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED BY NOV.30 
Applications can be filled out at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
Call 239-5242 for more information 
Business 
page 8 December 1 , 1992 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Job outlook expected to improve 

NEW YORK (AP) -The domestic job outlook is expected to improve in the first quarter of 1993, suggesting an end to two years of workforce decline, Manpower Inc. said in a sur­vey. 
The Milwaukee-based temporary employment service said Sunday that 17 percent of surveyed companies plan to increase their workforce in the January-March period, while 13 percent plan staff reductions. That translates to a net gain of 4 percentage points, unadjusted for seasonal differences. 
Adjusted for seasonal factors, job creation is expected to grow by 12 percentage points in the first quarter, compared with 9 percentage points in the fourth and first quarters of 1992. 
Seasonally adjusted figures are considered more useful for tracking overall employment trends. 
"This indicates a halt to workforce attrition that has plagued the economy for the past two years," Manpower said in a statement. 
The projections were part of Manpower's quarterly survey on employment trends. The survey, in its sixteenth year, is based on telephone interviews with more than 15,000 public and private employers in 468 
U.S. cities. 

Quarterly job growth peaked with a seasonally adjusted net gain of 20 percentage points in the first quarter of 1988 and began trending downward in the third quarter of 1989, according to Manpower surveys. Growth is expected to return in next year's first quarter to levels not seen since the last half of the high-growth 1980's. 
About 67 percent of companies surveyed said they did not plan any changes in their workforce size, while 3 percent said they did not know whether they would make changes. 
Some industries, such as construction and wholesale and retail firms, normally experience a seasonal decline in new jobs in the first quarter. But the projections for the coming quarter were less negative than usual, Manpower said. 
Wholesale and retail companies, which typically announce layoffs after the holidays, predicted a gain of 15 percentage points, up from 12 percentage po_ints in the year-ago quarter. Similarly, the construction trade predicted a seasonally adjusted gain of 15 percentage points, up from 9 percentage points. 
Service firms projected a seasonally adjusted gain of 14 percentage points, up from 13 percentage points in the year-ago quarter. 
Manufacturing firms continued to strengthen from levels early this year. Non-durable-goods manufacturers 
Interest rates on student loan payments to be reduced 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The nation's largest provider of college student loans unveiled a program Monday that will re­duce interest payments for certain borrowers who pay their monthly installments on time. 
The program, called Great Rewards, "is a whole new concept in education lending.... It rewards good repayment habits," said Lydia Marshall, senior vice president of the Student Loan Marketing Association. 
"Good borrowers save us time, and they save us money" because the association, known as Sallie Mae, can avoid collection procedures, such as overdue notices and telephone calls. "The savings will be passed back to the good borrowers." 
Sallie Mae is a publicly held, federally chartered financial services corporation that buys education loans from banks and other lending institutions. It owns more than $20 billion in federally insured student loans, which amounts to one in three of all such outstanding loans today. 
Under the program, 2 percentage points would be shaved from the interest rate on a borrower's loan if payments are made on time for the first 48 months, Marshall said. The program is limited to Stafford loans, the most common type of student loan under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. 
A typical borrower with $5,000 in Stafford loans would save $246 over the life of the loan, which is usually 10 years. A borrower with $23,000 in loans -which becomes the undergraduate borrowing limit for Stafford loans in July-would save more than $1,100 in interest payments. 
The first group of students who would benefit by the new program typically have loans with an interest·rate of 8 percent in the first four years and 10 percent thereafter, Marshall said. Under the program, on-time payments for the first four years would cut the interest rate for the following years by 2 percentage points, to 8 percent, she said. 
Tougher worker safety enforcement needed 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Two months ago, two steel workers died when they were overcome by fumes at a plant in Texas. Labor unions say a pending federal safety standard, pro­posed years ago, could have saved their lives. 
Now, with Bill Clinton's help, the unions may get the work­place rules and enforcement they have long sought. 
With a new administration, "there is going to be a more positive atmosphere" on the is­sue of workplace safety, pre­dicts Bill Borwegen, safety di­rector of the Service Employees International Union. 
Accused of foot dragging through two Republican admin­istrations, the Occupational Safety and Health Administra­tion is likely to speed up the adoption of regulations to pre­vent job-related accidents and worker exposure to toxic chemicals, union officials and safety experts say. 
OSHA says it plans to issue one long-awaited standard by Jan. 1 that would protecfwork­ers entering confined spaces. But it should have been adopted years ago when it was first proposed, said Michael Wright, safety director of the United Steel Workers of America. 
It's not costly and don't re­
~ .·: 

quire a lot of expensive tech­nology, Wright said. 
He insisted that if the standard had been on the books, Everett Burkette and Homer White Jr. might still be alive. They were killed Sept. 29 at the Lone Star Steel plant in Lone Star. 
The new administration also is expected to reduce the power of the Office of Management and Budget to delay or derail new regulations. 
Under the Reagan and Bush administrations, "the OMB process is a way to ensure that regulation don't get issued," said David Vladeck, an attorney 
, t
~······-········"··~·:· ..... 
for Public Citizen, a non-parti­san group that has challenged Republican regulatory policies. 
"I don't think Clinton is so hostile to regulation that he is going to set up a system that is going to defeat them." 
Clinton campaigned on a platform plank of tougher en­forcement of the federal job safety law to protect workers from hazards that cause more than 10,000 accidental deaths every year. 
The president-elect has en­dorsed the concepts behind legislation to give OSHA more power that was approved this year by the labor committees in the House and Senate. 
predicted a gain of 14 percentage points in the first quarter, up from a gain of 12 percentage points in the year-ago quarter, while durable­goods manufacturers projected a seasonally adjusted gain of 13 percentage points, up from a gain of 8 percentage points. 
Durable goods are manufactured items expected to last at least three 
years,  including  consumer  
appliances,  aircraft  and  other  
expensive products.  

The finance, insurance and real estate industries are pulling out of a deep slump, projecting a seasonally adjusted gain of 11 percentage points, compared with 4 percentage points a year ago. 
The survey showed widely disparate results on a geographic basis. Firms in the South anticipated the best growth, with a seasonally adjusted gain of 14 percentage points. 
The Northeast, although still hurting for new hiring activity, projected a seasonally adjusted gain of 9 percentage points. 
The Midwest showed trends about even with the national average, at a 14-percentage-point seasonally adjusted gain. 
However, recovery appears distant among businesses in the West, where respondents projected a seasonally adjusted gain of 7 percentage points. 
GM begins 'lend-a-plant' program 
DETROIT (AP) -General Motors Corp. is lending some of its laid-off workers and unused factory space to suppliers as a way to recover a portion of its investment in people and excess capacity. 
A deal with Android Indus­tries Inc. is the first result of what GM calls its strategic in­sourcing program, GM spokeswoman Toni Simonetti said Monday. 
GM is providing 20 laid-off workers and part of its Coldwater Road plant in Flint, Mich. to Android, which makes internal mechanisms that raise and lower windows in car doors. 
The plant, part of GM's In­land Fisher Guide division, has about 1,200 workers. It makes window regulators and door hinges for many GM models. 
"We are trying to come up with a variety of creative ways to use our people and our under-utilized plants," Simonetti said. "This is not meant to spare idled plants or those that will be idled." 
GM is in the process of cut­ting 74,000 jobs and closing 21 plants by 1995, part of a downsizing to turn the automaker into a smaller and more nimble player in the industry it once dominated. 
GM is expected to announce the remaining seven of 21 plants it has targeted for clos­ing, after next Monday's board meeting in New York. 
The lend-a-plant idea was developed by J. Ignacio Lopez de Arriortua. 
,. • :: ..... -....-4 

----------~-~-------­
Viewpoint 

Tuesday, December 1, 1992 page 9 

The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ......•....••.•...... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller .•..•...•............... David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The Pope is 'truly a man of peace' 
Can Hoosier hospitality be brought to Big Apple? 
Dear Editor: 
As I was reading the guest column by Kurt Mills on Nov. 23, it occurred to me that many Notre Dame students may be unfamiliar with Pope John Paul II, his writings, and his life. It is easy to allow the popular media to form our image of this man who has indeed changed the world. 
Those who would like to see what our Pope is really like should take a minute to read some of his writings. The en­cyclical entitled On the Dignity and Vocation of Women, for in­stance, is demonstration of the high regard in which John Paul holds women. On the Hun­dredth Anniversary of Rerum Novarum is an update on the social teachings of the Church. 
For those who would like a more informal, less theologi-
Dear Editor: 
During your fall break this year a very special group of people came to Florida. It wasn't your typical Florida fall­break crowd. I am speaking about the students who came to help the people devastated by Hurricane Andrew. This letter is for them. 
You came down to rebuild homes. You did a fine job re­cally intense introduction to the Holy Father, there are many biographies available in our li­brary. I would recommend particularly Andre Frossard's Portrait of John II, which is an intimate introduction to the thought, spirituality, and per­sonality of this Pope. 
Better yet, those who would like to really see for themselves if Pope John Paul II is a man of peace should know that he is coming to the United States in August, 1993, for the biannual World Youth Day. This event will take place in the mountains of Denver, Colorado, Aug. 15­16. 
The last World Youth Day took place in Poland, when over two million young people from all five continents gathered to hear what message the Pope had for them. John Paul II, from the beginning of his pontificate, has traveled all over the world to spread the mes­sage of Christ with courage, and he has never failed to meet with young people like us, whom he is counting on to build a "civilization of love" in the third millennium. 
For more information about the Denver World Youth Day, you can contact your diocese, or ask the pastor of your parish, as there are many trips being organized through the dioceses. If you take the time to get to know this Pope, you won't regret it; he is truly a man of peace, and he wants to challenge us to live the message of Christ to the full. 
Moira Walsh Off-campus Dear Editor: 
This past weekend I had the pleasure of visiting your uni­versity while seeing a friend from home. 
I just wanted to take the op­portunity to personally thank Ed Walters of 218 Cavanaugh and his friends, especially the hospitality of his girlfriend Tara Lynch of 734 P.E., for a won­derful weekend. 
Despite my constant mocking of Notre Dame's location, or I should say lack of civilization as I know it to be because New York City does not have any corn fields, I was overwhelmed with Notre Dame's friendly stu­dent body. 
Coming from the Big Apple I was rather apprehensive the first day when complete strangers actually took the time to establish eye contact, greet me with a warm friendly smile, and say hello. Eye contact and a friendly hello is a no-no in N.Y.C. 
My greatest memory will be the Irish's victory over Penn State. I still cannot believe someone picked me up from the field, all 5'11 3/4 " of me, and literally tossed me over the heads of other fans for about 40 yards. 
It was even more embarrass­ing on the flight back to New York when an alumni sat next to me and told me the story of seeing some female student tossed around the field faintly screaming, "Get me back to Cavanaugh!" 
I truly appreciated the hospi­tality and outward friendliness I received from the student body at Notre Dame. From this ex­perience I have taken a little bit of the Hoosier hospitality back to fill in the many bites so many have taken from the Big Apple. 
Noreen Ann Mastellon 
V.P. Senior Class College of New Rochelle New Rochelle, New York 
Nov. 16, 1992 

Students restored spirits too 

Fright of fall was 'minimized' 
Dear Editor: knew who you are so I could A sincere thank you to the three thank you personally. Perhaps 
N.D. students and the security we'll meet at the basketball team who helped me when I fell games! last Monday near the JACC. The fright of the fall was Sr. Estelle Scully minimized by their compassion O'Hara-Grace and professionalism. I wish I 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
pairing the homes you worked on. The houses look great! 
But the people of South Dade need more than their homes rebuilt. What you did by your presence was to help rebuild and restore our spirit. It will be a very long time, years in fact, before our communities re­semble their former selves. Thanks to people like you the hope is there that it can and will be done. 
God Bless you this Thanksgiv­ing. You will be remembered in many prayers as the people of Miami give thanks this November. 
Francesca (Arsenault) Marotta Miami, FL Nov. 16, 1992 

YOU ReAU.YfXWT !NA!<&il..mtro UH-HUH. CUN7DN? Me ANI? 
HAt-P7H& 
OTH,fl? §TAFF LAIA/YffRS ON THeH/U... 
\ 

IT'S OUR. TURN, RIC/<. UJ15'Vb Bti3N tuA!T!Ak5 (){}!<. tufKJt&UV!ftS 
fOR A 9-f(JTATPUBUC 915R.­WC8. CUN7DN'5 ave OrU51 7HbPOINTMAN RJR. Ml et-IT/Re GE!N!iRA­
710N/ 
ANP SO YOU'Rb 
WING 70 5/T 711131<& 8'/7Hb f10.101UAmNG 
FOR.H/5 CAU? 
RJCK.,IPH/5 
CAU5, IT'U-f& 7H/5CUtM!NA­
710N OFMY 
U~!ANPHfo 
IAIIU.CAU! I KNOW H£'U­CAU-l I 
5ai<TOF. a.tt-Y I'W3 GOTMY 
HA!R.R&­
~VW. 
I 

'After sleeping with the Devil, you'd love to close the book, but you gotta wonder how baby's gonna look.' 
Chagall Guevara 

After the thrill is gone, submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 


~-----------------------~-~~ --~-~ -­
.------------~------------------------~--~ 
Accent 
Tuesday, December 1 , 1992
page 10 

Old Fashioned Fun 
'Mr. Pickwick' promises traditional holiday cheer 
By MARA DIVIS 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 

Students are invited to Charles Dickens' character Mr. Pickwick's home tonight as he hosts a Christmas storytelling and caroling party in Washington Hall. 
"Mr. Pickwick's Stories for a Christmas Evening," performed by Troupe America, will bring stories, poems and Christmas carols to the Notre Dame stage tonight, according to Bill Donati, the group's managing agent. 
Based on Dickens' novel The Pickwick Papers, "Mr. Pickwick Stories for a Christmas Evening" incorporates several holiday stories, using both music and comedy, Donati said. He added that the touring group makes the audience a part of its performances. 
"(The director) Curt Wollan is known for participatory theatre," he said. "You walk into Mr. Pickwick's house for a Christmas party and Mr. Pickwick actually comes out and starts telling stories." 
In addition to the adaptation of The Pickwick Papers, the complete story involves parts of Dickens' A Christmas Carol. and Clement Moore's "The Night Before Christmas." 
The story, based on The Pickwick Papers, involves much of the structure of the novel, according to Donati. 
He said that Pickwick, (Dickens' character) required his guests to role-play as they told his stories and adventures. In this way, according to Donati, 

Members of Troupe America will perform "Mr. Pickwick's Stories for a Christmas Evening" tonight. Tickets are 
available for $7. 

Troupe America's performance will echo Dickens' novel. 
Dickens was a writer known for his strong characterization, according to a review of the group's production. Mr. Pickwick is no exception. The review, from a Virginia newspaper, said that the performance's characters are similar to those of a Dickens novel. 
In addition, the second half of the show will be a takeoff of A Christmas Carol.. according to Donati. It will blend comedy and traditional Victorian music, he said. 
"It's songs, poems, and carols as it would have been back in the 1860's," he said. "The Christmas Carol should be very recognizable." 
Donati said that the theater will be decorated as a Victorian 
.,.,. _._.,•,• ·,•_,!,• ,._,._,•-' __ __ _: ,· .' _·'· ... ' ,' ,:·
,: ,. ___ __ .. '!. ___
••• __ 

·::. :::: :::: :::: :~: _]_jj :j:' :~~: 
' 

=~ ·~j ~;: ~j .. :: . ··: :;: ::: :; =~~ { /)jj} 
estate, complete with the servants serving "Aunt Margaret Pickwick's Christmas cookies." 
He said that entering the theater will be like entering Mr. Pickwick's home, as the character will welcome fictitious names as members of the audience come in. The audience is also invited to sing along with the company, Donati said. 
"As the audience is going out of the theater, the company will exit with them and be there to greet them," Donati said. "It's just good stories, familiar carols, and good holiday fare." 
upe America, formed in order to put live theater productions into the national touring market, according to a biography of the group. 
Producer/Director Curt Wollan started the 13-member group's productions in 1987, and since its inception, Troupe America has toured such well­known productions as "A Child's Christmas in Wales," "Nunsense," and "The 1940's Radio Hour." 
Based in Minneapolis, Troupe America is listed in Who's Who in American Entertainment and is a past recipient of the Twin Cities Drama Critics Kudos award, Donati said. 
In addition, Donati said that Mr. Pickwick is a tradition for the group. 
"This is our seventh production of "Mr. Pickwick's Stories for a Christmas Evening,"' he said. "We put it together every Christmas." 
Tonight's performance at 8:10 in Washington Hall is sponsored by Student Activities. Student tickets are available for $7 at the LaFortune Information desk. 
By PETER BEVACQUA 
Film Critic 

In "Home Alone 2: Lost in New York," Kevin McCallister (Macaulay Culkin) is once again alone, and this time he has all of New York City for his playground. But he isn't going to be alone for along. The notorious Wet Bandits, Harry and Marv (Joe Pesci and Daniel Stern), are bound for the Big Apple, too, still smarting from their last encounter with Kevin, and plotting larceny on a grand scale. 
Chris Columbus' sequel to the original, which is the third highest­grossing film in motion picture history, is both repetitive and humorous (an unlikely combination, yet possible in the world of Hollywood follow-ups). It is quite difficult to make a successful sequel to a film which was so appealing because of its unique formula-"Home Alone" is unique, "Home Alone 2" is a slightly altered version of the same thing. 
The first half of the film is tiresome. Once again Kevin is left on his own due to his inattentive parents. The only ray of light, in an otherwise bleak hour of cinematic boredom, is the photography of New York City. Columbus borrows shots identical to Francis Ford Coppola's depiction of young Vito Corleone in the one of the all-time great sequels, "Godfather II.'' Eventually the splendor of the cinematography wears thin, and the audience is left with a greedy kid 
'Home Alone 2' shines with humor, disappointment 
"Home Alone 2: Lost in New 
York" 
Produced by John Hughes
Directed by Chris Columbus 
Starrinq: Macaulay Culkin, Joe 
Pesc1 and Daniel Stern 
** 

(out of a possible five) 
gorging himself within the confines of "New York's most exciting hotel," the majestic Plaza. 
Columbus tries to deliver some sense of true Christmas sentiment by forming a relationship between Kevin and the mysterious Pigeon Lady. Audiences are moved by the warmth of Clarence in Frank Capra's "It's A Wonderful Life"-the Pigeon Lady is, (or lack 

of a better term, disgusting. There are two bright 
spots in this "Caddyshack II" Joe Pesci, Daniel Stern, andMacaulay Culkin star in Home Alone 2: Lost in New York caliber sequel (perhaps that is being a bit too rough). Once Kevin 
finds himself in the Plaza he embarks on a battle of wits with the hotel's persnickety concierge, played with extra dollops of snobbery and disdain by Tim Curry, who bears a striking resemblance to a figure who has become synonymous with the Christmas season, the Grinch. However, it is Kevin's battle with Joe Pesci and Daniel Stern inside a to be renovated Brownstone which is the 
. . . highlight of the film. Although the se_q~enc_e _bor.ro~s ~tunts fro~ the Original, It IS still h1lar_wus. There IS not one _among you who will not laugh_ aloud ~un?g the cartoonesque torturmg of esc! an~ Stern. . " . Home Alone 2: Lost m New Yor~ Is won~erf~l for a young audience, .~ut It will n~t appeal ~o everyone. Home Alone was and IS 
enjoyed by an audience of all ages-it is, however, difficult to amuse anyone over the age of ten, again, with the same material. Parts of the film are undeniably funny, and that spells money-nonetheless. For the sake of Macaulay Culkin, I hope they do not make a "Home Alone 3: Lost in God knows where" because there is a fine line between cute and obnoxious. 

Tuesday, December 1, 1992 Accent page 11 
Gospel performer to dramatize Luke in "Gift of Peace" production 
By JENNIFER HABRVCH Since the early 1980's, Accent Writer Defilippis has performed his dramatizations of the scriptures 
The Gospel will come alive and the lives of the saints today as Saint Mary's hosts a throughout the United States one-man performance of "The and Canada to over 150,000 Gift of Peace-The First Six people. Chapters of the Gospel of Luke." He won the bronze medal at 
the New York International Film 
Leonardo Defilippis, a former and Television Festival for the Shakespearean acto~ began televised drama "St. Francis: performing Gospel Troubadour of God's Peace." dramatizations with his wife Defilippis also received the Arby Patti. Award in 1989 from the 
Academy of Religious 
They attempt to capture the Broadcasters for two of his meaning of Christ's life. His dramas on "The Gospel of "Gift of Peace" performance is Luke." 
taken directly from the Gospel of Luke. Defilippis' most recent national tour was an original 
"We've been trying for some drama entitled "St. John of the time to bring him to campus," Cross and the Living Flame of according to Keith Egan, Love." director of planning for the Defilippis will perform"Gift of 
Center of Spirituality. "He has Peace" today at 7:30 p.m. in become very popular on Regina Hall Chapel. Admission campuses on the West Coast." to the performance is free. 
According to Egan, the Gospel "It {the dramatization) brings of Luke is rich in "the theology the old medieval tradition of of the coming of Jesus, which is drama performed in the Church appropriate for the advent together," said Egan. "Saint season." Mary's has always had a fondness for the medieval "lt will be a way for the tradition." college to celebrate Advent," he said. "Gift of Peace" is being 
Saint Mary's was also very sponsored by Campus Ministry, interested in bringing this the department of particular dramatization to Communication, Dance and campus. because the Gospel of Theatre, Student Government, 
Luke includes many women and the department of Justice figures and contains many Education. issues of justice, Egan said. 

lippis, a well-known Biblical performer, will bring his act to 
N D Health and Safety Week to focus on Campus Safety issues 
By JOHN FISCHER campus crime, and this forum will Accent Writer attempt to deal with that," Lucke said. 
When Health and Safety Awareness To deal with some of the most frequent 
Week kicked off yesterday, senior off-campus crime problems, Lucke says 
Melissa Lucke stepped into the the Student Life Department was able to 
unknown. Lucke, Women's Concerns convince most student-frequented bars, 
Commissioner of the Student Life except for Bridget's, to begin offering 
Department of Student Government, is free soft drinks to designated drivers. 
co-creator of the week with senior Ellen The bars will introduce this service this 
Hujarski. week, and, according to Lucke, will 
make it permanent. 
The concept for such a week The Off-Campus Forum and an on­
originated in Lucke's membership in campus counterpart will be presented by 
Students With AIDS Training, or SWAT. the South Bend police. 
In an attempt to increase publicity and 
attendance at SWAT activities, Lucke hit Lucke has some ideas for the future of 
upon the idea of consolidating several the program. In addition to an attempt 
existing programs into a weeklong to bring in speakers of a national 
health and safety extravaganza. reputation, she would like to see more 
tie-ins with the South Bend community. 
"Notre Dame does not know the risk "We are already working with the Police 
by and large," said Lucke of AIDS. Department and groups such as CARE, 
"SWAT examines the health dangers that but we'd like to see even more 
are present everywhere" as a result of cooperation with the South Bend 
AIDS, she added. community in the future, to ease some of 
Lucke was able to work through the fear and misunderstanding," she 
Student Government, in conjunction with said. 
the off-campus presidents and Safewalk, 
to bring together other programs under The week gets underway at 7:30 pm 
the auspices of health and safety. The off tonight with the On-Campus Crime 
campus presidents were instrumental in Forum at the CSC, followed by a CARE 
the scheduling of an Off-Campus Crime presentation on rape at 10:00 in 
Forum. Siegfried Hall. Wednesday, the Off­
"This forum has occurred in the past, Campus Crime Forum will take place in 
but we wanted to include it this year in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium at 7:30pm, 
our program because many students, followed by a SWAT presentation on 
both hosts and guests, are unaware AIDS in Stanford Hall at 10:00. Finally, 
about ordinances and rights pertaining there will be an encore presentation of 
to off-campus parties. Besides that, no the CARE program in Fisher Hall at 7:30 
one's ignorant that there's lots of off-pm on Thursday. 
____j 
----~---------------------~  
••. """~..-·-· e."'l'·  t:P.P. t  r '9dm9~~a .VY5hMu'T  
page 12  The Observer  Tuesday, December 1, 1992  

In final quarter of season, NFC playoffs clear, AFC still muddled 
(AP)-So what's new? The San Francisco 49ers are in the playoffs again, their ninth post­season berth in 10 years and their lOth straight 10-win sea­son. 
So what's new? What's new is that Buffalo stumbled in Indi­anapolis and could conceivably play on the road in January­like in Pittsburgh. 
As the NFL enters the final quarter of the regular season, the playoff picture is clear in the NFC, where the Super Bowl winner usually comes from, and muddled in the AFC, where Buffalo remains the favorite to get to Pasadena. The opponent? How about the 49ers or Cowboys. 
Without geting into the myriad "what ifs", here's a quick look: 
In the NFC: Unless Philadel­phia or Washington break down, only Green Bay (6-6) has a real shot at breaking into the projected group of playoff teams -San Francisco and Dallas (each 10-2); Minnesota and New Orleans (each 9-3) and the Redskins and Eagles (each 7-5). 
There's a good chance that by this time next week, only the last two spots will be open ­among the Eagles, Redskins and Packers. Plus a battle for the home field -San Francisco currently holds the tiebreaker over Dallas and Minnesota would like to move up and get a bye. 
The Packers, who haven't made the playoffs in a non­strike year since 1972 have a shot. If they finished tied with the Eagles, the get in because they beat Philadelphia 27-24 three weeks ago. 
"The playoffs are still a dream away. We've still got to win four or at least three out of four," kicker Chris Jacke said after his four field goals helped the Packers to a 19-14 win over Tampa Bay on Sunday. 
"All the factors will have to come together." 
Three of four? The Pack will be favored in two -at home to Detroit and the Rams. The other two are at Houston and Minnesota and they can hope the Vikings have nothing left to play for when they go to the Metrodome the final week. 
The Eagles get three of four at home -Minnesota next week, then the Redskins and Giants the last two weeks. Their only road game is at Seattle, 1-10 before Monday's game with Dallas. 
In the AFC: Houston could miss the playoffs after an NFL-high five straight appearances. This in a year a lot of people picked them to go all the way. 
Buffalo and Pittsburgh (9-3) will make it -the Steelers can clinch the Central with one more win and one more loss by both Houston and Cleveland. 
The Bills, despite their shocking overtime loss to the Colts, should still win the East but could lose the home field to the Steelers -their last two games are at New Orleans and Houston. That would jeopardize their third straight trip to the Super Bowl -they've gotten there the last two years by play­ing at Rich Stadium in January. 
There are six teams fighting for the other four spots ­Kansas City and Miami (8-4); Denver (7 -4 before Monday night's game); San Diego and Houston (7-5) and Cleveland (6­6). 
The Chargers remain the NFL's hottest team -they've won seven of eight and their fi­nal four opponents are Phoenix, Seattle, the Raiders and Cincinnati (combined record 13­34). That's courtesy of their last-place schedule that could help them to become the only team ever to overcome an 0-4 start to make the postseason. 
"Don't knock the schedule," 
says general manager Bobby Beathard. "We earned it." 
Kansas City probably has in the edge in the West -Marty Schottenheimer-coached teams normally close well. The Chiefs have two wins over San Diego (for tiebreaker purposes). and get Denver at home the final week. 
They also visit the Raiders and Giants (Sunday's win over the Jets was their first in the Meadowlands in nine games) and get the Patriots at home. That's three teams who are a combined 12-24. 
Right now? 

Make it Buffalo, Pittsburgh, Kansas City, Miami (with a tiebreaking win over Houston); San Diego and Denver. 
REMARKABLE RICE: It took Jerry Rice just 119 games to get 100 TD catches. Steve Largent took 200 -but didn't have Joe Montana and Steve Young throwing to him. 
More remarkable -Don Hut­son, who played from 1935 to 1945 had 99 TD catches in 117 games, in an era where the single-wing was in vogue and a lot of games ended like soccer matches -0-0, 2-0, 3-0, and the like. 
NEW QUARTERBACK SOCI­ETY: Mixed reviews for the six new quarterbacks who started Sunday. 
THE GOOD: Sean Salisbury, Minnesota, 23 of 34 for 238 yards in the Vikings' 31-17 win over the Rams. It was his first NFL start after seven years with four teams. 
THE FAIR: Peter Tom Willis, Chicago, in for Jim Harbaugh: 19 of 26 for 285 yards and two touchdowns. But the Bears lost 27-14 to Cleveland and Willis threw two interceptions, one of them returned 92 yards for a touchdown by David Brandon. 
Bernie Kosar, Cleveland, back after 10 games out with a bro­ken ankle: 8 of 17 for 59 yards, but the Browns won. 
THE UGLY: Timm Rosenbach, Phoenix: 19 of 34 for 262 yards but FOUR interceptions in a 41­3 loss to Washington. 
David Klingler, Cincinnati: 16 of 34 for 140 yards and 10 sacks in a 21-9 loss to Pitts­burgh. 
THE INCOMPLETE: 
Ken O'Brien, New York Jets: 1 of 3 for 13 yards in a 23-7 loss to Kansas City before leaving with a reinjured right thumb. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from f 0 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 3t4 LaFortune and from t2 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
I LOST MY RED UMBRELLA ROOMMATE WANTED: FEMALE SEEKING NEAT, MEN AND WOMEN @P#$@P#$@P#$@P#$@P#$@P#$@P#$@P DURING THE URBAN PLUNGE Looking for female roommate for NONSMOKING HOUSEMATE 
NOTICES 

MEETING IN THE LIBRARY AUD. 2nd semester. Castle Point Apt. 10 MIN. FROM CAMPUS. FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE E, Ellie, Eli, Elisa, Klosterwoman... 
LAST SUNDAY. PLEASE CALL Can move in before break. Call $260/MONTH. 277-7048. ATIENTION: AMY AT 4530. Deb at239-7890 or 271-8124 For more info, call COSIMO'S Yesterday was your birthday, but For more information and 277-1875. you weren 'I here to enjoy it and to assistance regarding the DID YOU TAKE THE WRONG Female roommate wanted-Campus FOR RENT read this wonderful birthday investigation of financing, business COAT AT THE WALSH FORMAL View Apts. for next semester. Call Lisa Holsinger will celebrate her classified. I just wanted to let you opportunities and work-at-home ON FRIDAY NOVEMBER 20? IF Erin or Nancy 273-2565. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 19th birthday in lnnsbruck on know that in 364 days you will be opportunities, THE OBSERVER SO PLEASE CALL 219·291·7153 Dec.13. Please send her a card: legal and free of further ticketing by urges its readers to contact the MARK X1857 Babysitter wanted for occasional Studentenheim RossHn-der-Au the South Bend police department. Better Business Bureau of evenings out. Experience & own ROOMMATE WANTED: Hottinger Au 34 Yesterday. you turned 20 and Michiana. 52303 Emmons Rd .. DID YOU TAKE THE WRONG transportation preferred. Pay to live w/ 2 fem. grad students A-6020 lnnsbruck unfortunately nothing really changes Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637-COAT AT THE WALSH FORMAL negotiable. Call277·9682 ext632. $175, incl. util., washer/dryer Tirol, Austria because you can already vote and 
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277-ON FRIDAY NOV. 20? IF SO call 277-2065 lv message be arrested as an adult and you're 9121 or 800·439-5313. PLEASE CALL SPRINGBREAKERS. Promote our SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK not 21 either. 
MARK X1857 Florida Spring Break packages. SECLUDED 4BR 2 BATH '93! JAMAICA, CANCUN. FLORIDA I just wanted to pass on my WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 Earn MONEY and FREE trips. COUNTRY HOME NEAR CAMPUS. FROM $119. BOOK EARLY, SAVE greetings and since I didn't get a 
HELP ... SKI SEASON IS NEAR !I! Organize SMALL or LARGE groups. 4 MEN OR 4 WOMEN. $210 $$. ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL chance to shop over the busy TYPING BUT my SKI IS are NOT HERE. Campus Marketing. 800· MONTH PER PERSON, LEASE, FREE! CALL weekend, I am giving you this 287-4082 LOST: Two pairs of downhill ski is in 423-5264. DEPOSIT. 272-0806 1-800-426· 7710. expensive personal ad which every 
blue ski bag,(Rossignol 4S & K2) one will read at lunch. ..SENIORS.. LAST SEEN: Farley Hall , but could SPACIOUS 6 BDRM HOME,NEAR ADOPTION: Loving Catholic couple FREE PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA be anywhere. I know, pretty difficult Help! I need a ride to the CAMPUS.SECURITY dreams of sharing life with newborn. Just for laughs ... TOMORROW to "lose"... WASHINGTON DC Area for X-mas SYSTEM.FURN. FALL 1993.272· Hear us on our taped message. Do you remember when we ... $1 cover Please contact Paula w/ and for Break. I can leave as early as 6306 Confidential. Expenses paid. 1-800· -Ran around an old house chasing ••sENIORS.. info @P 4271. Reward if found. Thurs. Dec. 17. Please call Allison 467-8522. murder suspects. 
Thanks. at X4758 or X4721 -Slept through an entire semester of WordWorks Typing Service FOR SALE environmental geology except for Term papers, dissertations, theses tosT: One pair of fruit-punch ELIZABETH-the day we talked about the tarpits. 277-7406 soaked size 13 Tevas in the stadium AGENCY CHRISTMAS SWEATSHIRTS for ••••••coNGRATULATIONs•••••• -Braved the slime in the lake only to 
lot. If found, please call Tony at 287· DIRECTOR/COUNSELOR sale!! I Call to see samples...273-be caught by security. All WORDPROCESSING services. 9341 because I doubt they'll fit you. Catholic Social Services. a 2967. -CAROL -Saw the pregnant man lose some Andy 234-8789 No questions asked. Bloomington based counseling clothing 
agency serving clients throughout For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call -Mooched our way around Boston 
....,..................................
South Central Indiana is seeking a Rita Delivery on Campus ·Gave new meaning to the phrase 
ILOST & FOUND I 
full-time director/counselor to work 234·6524 lip sync in N.O.I WANTED with a strong supportive board. On the twelfth day of Christmas my Lost: Responsible for daily operations of SONY INTEGRATED AMPLIFIER true love gave to me... Peace and Love, GOLD PULSAR WATCH COUNSELOR I CASEWORKER agency, program development, 135 watts/channel, full remote, EO Tickets to the Notre Dame Glee MARTEN please call me if found Catholic Social Services, a fund raising, and public relations in NEVER USED. $150 I OBO Club Christmas Concert Jen X1271 Bloomington based counseling addition to part-time counseling. Jason x2990 Saturday, Dec. 12 at 8:15 in JACC. P.S. Say hi to Princess Di for me. agency serving clients throughout Requires strong organizational, Tickets at LaFortune Info Desk. LOST: BRADSHAW'S BLUE South Central Indiana is seeking interpersonal, and communication For SALE @P#$@P#$#@P#$#@P$@P$@P$@P$@P$ BLAZER AT THE 'NAUGH full-time and part-time counselor 1 skills. Master's Degree in COUCH, TV, CD/TAPE PLAYER ..........*******************•••••••• @ FORMAL. IF FOUND CALL JOHN caseworkers. Responsibilities Counseling, Psychology, Social STAIRMASTER AT 283·1505. PEACE. include counseling for individuals, Work or related field required. Need details, call271 8418 TO THE PERSON SELLING THE 
SHORT ON CASH ? families or groups and strong case Preference will be given to "END OF AN ERA" (ND VS. PENN LOST: BLUE EDDIE BAUER management skills. Master's practicing Catholics. Salary and STATE) SHIRTS-Stop by MORRISSEY LOAN OVERNIGHT BAG WITH MY Degree in Counseling, Psychology, benefits commensurate with TICKETS PLEASE CALL ME, I'D LIKE TO 
Mon.-Fri.: 11:30 · 12:30 CLOTHES AND A BROWN Social Work or related field education and experience. Send BUY 2. 1st Floor LaFortune MEXICAN BLANKET IN IT. I LOST required. Salary and benefits resume and cover letter to: GREAT GIFT IDEAl CALL RICH AT x1 005 O'Hara Lounge IT DURING THE PENN STATE commensurate with education and WEEKEND AROUND SORIN OR experience. Send resume and R. Robbins, Chair 2 tix for PHANTOM 30 day loans up to $250 LEWIS HALLS. CALL DAN cover letter to: Director Search Committee FRESHMAN BAND SEEKS @ 1% interest 919·659-9067. REWARD WILL RR 2 Box 726 12·19-92 Chicago DRUMMER AND BASSIST MORE THAN MAKE UP FOR R. Robbins, Chair Spencer, IN 47460-9678 IF INTERESTED CALL CHAD MARGE COST OF CALL. THANK YOU. Search Committee FACE VALUE I AT X4186 OR ROBERT AT RR 2 Box 726 The Search Committee will begin X2258. IT'LL BE AN EXPERIENCE STRIPED & SWIPED Spencer, IN 47460-9678 reviewing applications December 2, Erin X2331 YOU WONT SOON FORGET What can I do to impress my formal 
1992. date? SOMEONE STOLE MY BARBER The Search Committee will begin Do you know anyone who is: • Have a dozen long-stem roses POLE ON SUNDAY NIGHT, reviewing applications December 2, PERSONAL •An Observer goddess delivered to her room? 
11/22/92. GREAT SENTIMENTAL 1992. Energetic musician w/ diverse taste •A Co-Ree hoops legend • Rent a billboard declaring my VALUE. $50 REWARD. PATS needs guitar/bass/drums for Hey Niff •Gracious host of Topher undying love for her? 
BARBER SHOP, 273-8440. originals band. Must own •A BABE ('Null ced.) • Send her a Chippendale's dancer INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT-equipment. No classic rock/Metal. OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES •Now 21 YEARS OLD!!!!!!!!! to...uh ... tell her stories? LOST· BLACK VELVETIE HEAR Make money teaching English Bring your sense of humor & leave NO!! BAND. LAST SUNDAY AT THE abroad. Japan and Taiwan. make your attitude at home. Call Jeff ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. you got it. ........ Take her to see the 
ENGINEERING DEPT, FIRST $2000·$4000 + per month. Many nights 273-1512. family can provide financial security, Flanner/Siegfried Play FLOOR. PLEASE, IF FOUND. provide room & board + other excellent education and wonderful ••HAPPY B·DAY JENN GUERIN". "THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING CALL 272·3920. benefits! Financially & Culturally Driving to Kzoo future for your baby. Confidential (Right on time-Biq time!!!!) UNCLE ROSCOE" 
rewarding! For International or Ann Arbor and legal. Expenses paid. Call Dec. 3, 4, 5 at Washington Hall. 
LOST: 14K GOLD BRACELET Employment Group: (206)632-1146 this weekend? Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805) LOSE FAl! Healthy, guaranteed diet It'll impress her, and won't cost you REWARD OFFERED. 239·7007 ext. J5584. DRIVE ME 520·5978 or attorney (818) 241· program. Affordable. Call (616)471-an arm and a leg. FROM 8-5 OR 277·5132 AFTER 5. I'll buy gas! X2331 5535. 3970. 

-

NFL STANDINGS 
RESULTS Gino loretta, QB, Miami NBA STANDINGS 11·0-Senior AMERICAN CONFERENCE EASTERN CONFERENCE
Helaman Hopefula Game-by-Game Ranked: No. 5 total offense, No. 18 passing Game-by-game statistics for some Heisman
East Att Cp Yds Td lnt Atlantic Dlvlalon Trophy hopefuls listed with position, team, at Iowa 51 31 433 2 1
w l T Pet PF PA Home Away AFC f\FC Div w l Pet.. GB 
team record, school year, and national Florida A&M 22 12 170 2 0
Buffalo 9 3 0 .750 314 199 5-1-0 4·2-0 6·3-0 3-0-0 5-2-0 Orlando 8 3 .727­
ratings: Arizona 46 26 289 1 1
Miami 8 4 0 HJ7 282 217 4-2-0 4-2-0 6-3-0 2·1·0 3-3-0 NewYork 8 5 .615 1
Reggie Brooks, RB, Notre Dame Florida St. 48 20 252 2 1
lndnplis 5 7 0 .417 163 266 3-4-0 2-3·0 4·7·0 1.0.0 3-3-0 New Jersey 7 7 .500 2112
9-1-1 -Senior atPennSt 31 11 80 o o
NY Jets 3 9 0 .250 173 249 3-3-0 0-6-0 3-6-0 0-3-0 2-3-0 Boston 5 8 .385 4
Ranked: No.7 rushing, No. 15 scoring, No. Texas Christian 35 20 350 3 1
New England 2 10 0 .167 162 294 1-5-0 1·5·0 2-6-0 0-4-0 2-4-0 Miami 4 8 .333 4112 
Central 25 all-purpose running atVa Tech 28 17 249 3 0 Washington 4 9 .308 5 Pttsburgh 9 3 0 .750 247 162 5-0-0 4-3-0 8-2-0 1·1·0 4·1·0 Philadelphia 3 8 273 5
No Yds 1D Avg West Virginia 40 28 363 3 0 at Northwestern 9 157 1 17.4 Temple 23 16 221 2 0
Houston 7 5 0 .583 270 218 3-2-0 4-3-0 5-5-0 2·0·0 2-3-0 Central Division 
Michigan 13 69 1 5.3 at Syracuse 43 28 343 0 3
Cleveland 6 6 0 .500 194 190 3-3-0 3-3-0 4-5-0 2·1·0 2-1-0 Chicago 9 3 .750 -Cincnnati 4 8 0 .333 206 269 2-4·0 2·4·0 3-5-0 1-3-0 1·4·0 Milwaukee 9 3 .750 ­
at Michigan St 10 56 1 5.6 atSanDiegoSt 35 19 310 1 o Waat Charlotte 7 6 538 2 112
Purdue 15 205 3 13.7 Totals 402 226 3060 19 7 Kan.City 8 0 HJ7 179 3-3-0 2-1-0 Atlanta 6 6 .500 3
Stanford 11 86 1 7B 562 passing pet4 251 5-1-0 6-3-0 5·1·0 
at Pittsburgh 14 84 0 6.0
Denver 7 4 0 .636 175 207 6-0-0 1·4-0 6-2-0 1·2·0 3-2-0 Indiana 6 6 .500 3 San llego 7 5 0 .583 214 182 5-2-0 2-3-0 6-5-0 1.0.0 3-3-0 TRANSACTIONS Cleveland 6 7 .462 3112
BYU 15 112 0 75 Navy 20 95 1 4B 
Detroit 3 9 .250 6LA Raidrs 5 7 0 .417 179 198 4-2·0 1·5-0 4-5-0 1·2·0 3-3-0 
Boston College 18 174 2 9.7
Seattle 1 10 0 .()91 BASEBALL WESTERN CONFERENCE
73 218 0-5-0 1·5·0 1·7·0 0-3-0 0-5-0 
Penn St 23 7$ 0 3.4
NATIONAL CONFERENCE National Laagua Mldwaat Dlvlalon 
at Southern Cal 19 227 3 12.0
Eaat CINCINNATI REDS-Agreed to terms with w l Pet.. GB 
Totala 167 1343 13 8.0
w l T Pet PF PA Home Away AFC NFC Div John Smiley, pitcher, on a four-year contract. Houston 7 4 .636 ­
Caught 1 pass lor 24 yards and one TD.
Dallas 10 2 0 .833 293 165 6-1·0 4-1·0 3-0-0 7-2-0 6-1-0 Agreed to terms with Dwayne Henry, pitcher, Utah 7 5 583 112 Washingtn 7 5 0 .583 219 190 5-1-0 2-4-0 2-1-0 5-4-0 2-3-0 on a one-year contract Placed Tom Bolton, San Antonio 5 6 .455 2 
Marshall Faulk, RB, San Otago St.
Ph~a 7 5 0 .583 269 188 5-0-0 2-5-0 2·1·0 5-4-0 4·2·0 pitcher, on unconditional release waivers. Denver 5 7 .417 2 112
5-5-1 -Sophomore
NY Giants 5 7 0 .417 251 279 3-3-0 2·4-0 1·2-0 4-5-0 2-3-0 MONTREAL EXPO~ent Doug Simons, Minnesota 4 7 .364 3 
Ranked: No. 1 rushing, No. 3 all-purpose 
Phoenix 3 9 0 .250 187 282 2-3-0 1-6-0 0-0-0 3-9-0 1-6·0 pitcher, outright to Ottawa of the Dallas 1 9 .100 5 112
running, No. 3 scoring 
Central International league. Pacific Dlvlalon 
No Yds 1D Avg

Minnesota 9 3 0 .750 307 191 4-2·0 5·1·0 2-1-0 7-2-0 6-1-0 Florida State League Portland 9 2 .618 ­
Southern Cal 27 220 3 8.1
Green Bay 6 6 0 .500 187 232 4-2-0 2·4·0 2-1-0 4·5-0 3-3-0 MIAMI MIRACLE-Promoted director of Seattle 8 4 HJ7 1112
atBYU 35 299 3 85
Chicago 4 8 0 .333 241 288 3-4-0 1·4-0 0-2-0 4-6-0 3-4-0 operations leslie Smith to assistant general LA lakers 7 4 .636 2 
at UCLA 23 118 1 5.1
Tampa Bay 4 8 0 .333 212 275 3-3-0 1·5·0 0-2-0 4-6-0 3-5-0 manager. Phoenix 7 4 .636 2 
at New Mexico 25 200 2 8.0
Detroit 3 9 0 .250 217 253 1-5-0 2-4-0 1·2·0 2·7·0 2-4-0 United States Baaaball Federation LA Clippers 7 6 538 3
Texas-EI Paso 30 156 1 52
Waat USBF-Named Mike Fiore associate Golden State 5 8 .385 5
Air Force 29 129 0 45
x-San Fran 10 2 0 .833 339 196 4-1·0 6·1·0 2·1·0 8-1-0 6-()..0 director. Sacramento 5 8 .385 5 
at Colorado St. 18 60 0 3.3
NewOrlns 9 3 0 .750 235 154 5+0 4-2-0 2-0-0 7·3·0 2·2·0 BASKETBALL Saturday's Gamn 
at Wyoming 33 127 0 3B
Atlanta 5 7 0 .417 234 296 5-2-0 0-5-0 2-2-0 3-5-0 1·3·0 National Baakatball Laague New York 112, Cticago 75 
Hawaii 43 300 4 7.0
LA Rams 4 8 0 .333 217 264 3-3-0 1-5-0 2-2-0 2-6-0 0-4·0 PHOENIX SUN~Iaced Kevin Johnson, Boston 117' Philadelphia 109 
Fresno St. 2 21 1 105
x-dinched playoff berth guard, on the injured list. Orlando 95, Cleveland 93 
at Miami did not play
Thuraday'a Gamaa Thursday, Dec. 3 Greek Basketball League Indiana 134, Charlotte 122 
Totala 265 1630 15 6.1
Houston 24, Detroit 21 Atlanla at New Orleans, 8 p.m. GBL-Banned Steve Burtt, guard, for life Atlanta 112, Miaml100 
Caught 18 passes lor 128 yards. 
Dallas 30, New York Giants 3 Sunday, Dec. 6 for testing positive for cocaine and hashish. Minnesota 62, Detroit 80 Sunday'• Gamaa Cincinnati at Cleveland, 1 p.m. HOCKEY Utah 108, Houston 99 
Garrlaon Hearat, RB, Georgia
Cleveland 27, Chicago 14 Detroit vs. Green Bay at Milwaukee, 1 p.m. National Hockey Laagua San Antonio 104, Seattle 97 
9-2-Junior
Kansas City 23, New York Jets 7 Indianapolis at New England, 1 p.m. ~JOSE SHARKS-Waived Petri Skriko, Milwaukee 97, Washington 95 
Ranked: No. 1 scoring, No. 2 rushing, No. 4
New Orleans 24, Miami 13 left Wing. LA Clippars 121, Denver 119 
Minnesota at Philadelphia, 1 p.m. 
all-purpose running 
Atlanta 34, New England 0 COLLEGE Golden State 134, Phoenix 131
New York Jets at Buffalo, 1 p.m. 
No Yds 1D Avg

Washington 41, Phoenix 3 Seattle at Pittsburgh, 1 p.m. BIG EAST CONFERENCE-Announced New Jersey 94, Saaamento 89 
at S. Carolina 17 134 1 79
Pittsburgh 21, Cincinnati 9 Dallas at Denver, 4 p.m. that Syracuse will be allowed to play In the Sunday's Gamea 
Tennessee 20 161 3 8.1
Green Bay 19, Tampa Bay 14 Kansas City at los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m. men's conference basketball tournament Detroit 92, New York 76 
CS-Fullerton 19 164 4 8.6
lndianapolis16, Buffalo 13, OT Miami at San Francisco, 4 p.m. despite sanctions barring them from the Portland 1 07, Saaamento 99 
Mississippi 14 40 0 29
Minnesota 31, los Angeles Rams 17 San Diego at Phoenix, 4 p.m. NCAA tournament. LA l.akers 114, Dallas 85 
at Arkansas 19 143 2 75
San Francisco 20, Philadelphia 14 Washington at New York Giants, 4 p.m. ARKANSAS-Named Danny Ford football Monday's Gamn 
Ga. Southern 20 173 2 8.7
San Diego 27, los Angeles Raiders 3 los Angeles Rams at Tampa Bay, 8 p.m. coach. No games scheduled 
Vanderbilt 21 246 2 11.7
Monday'a Game Monday, Dac. 7 RUTGERS-Named Steve Theobald Tuaaday's Gsmn 
at Kentucky 22 171 1 7B
Denver at Seattle, 9 p.m. men's assistant track and field coach, and Portland at New York, 7:30 p.m. 
Chicago at HousiDn, 9 p.m. 
at Florida 14 41 0 3.0 
Bobby Phillips women's assistant track and San Antonio at Washing~. 7:30p.m.
at Auburn 31 105 1 39 
field coach. hdiana at Atlanta, 7:30 p.m. 
Georgia Tech 31 169 3 55 
STETSON-Announced the resignation of BosiDn at Cleveland, 7:30p.m. 
Totala 228 1547 19 6B 
Margaret Jones, women's golf coach, to de­Houston at Denver, 9 p.m. 
Caught 22 passes for 324 yards and 21Ds. 
vote lull-time service as the school's educa­Dallas at Utah, 9 p.m. tional counselor. Charlotte at Phoenix, 9:30 p.m. Orlando at Seattle, 10 p.m. 
Canadiens, Roy shut out Sabres, 3-0 
MONTREAL (AP) -Patrick Ulf Dahlen, a former Ranger, games. Washington is 4-1-1 in Roy made 23 saves Monday and Mike Craig also scored as its last six. The win also gave night for his 19th career the North Stars broke open a 1-Capital coach Terry Murray a 4­shutout as the Montreal Cana­1 game and handed goaltender 4 career record against his diens beat the Buffalo Sabres 3-John Vanbiesbrouck his first older brother Bryan. 
0. loss in 20 games at Madison Vincent Damphousse, Stephan Square Garden. Vanbiesbrouck Bruins 4, Nordiques 3 
Lebeau and Denis Sayard had been 15-0-4 at the Garden Steve Leach scored his second since losing to Washington on goal of the game with 2:26 to
NHL Summary 
Nov. 13, 1991. play in the third period, lifting 
scored for Montreal, which 
The Rangers lost their fourth Boston over Quebec and hand­
moved back into a tie with 
straight home game, something ing the Nordiques their third
Pittsburgh for first overall in 
that hadn't happened since straight loss.
the 24-team NHL at 17-6-3. 
January 1983. The North Stars Joe Juneau drew his third as­The victory avenged an 8-2 
had been 0-6-3 against the sist of the game on the goal, adefeat in Buffalo on Oct. 11 ­Rangers. wrist shot by Leach from just
when the Canadiens were 
inside the right circle past Ron
playing their third game in four Capitals 4, Red Wings 1 Hextall.
nights. Buffalo dropped to 10­11-4, fourth in the Adams Di­
Defenseman AI Iafrate had The Nordiques, who trailed 2­
vision. The Sabres are 2-9-3 on 
his fifth goal in four games as 0 and 3-2, tied the game on Billthe road, with the only two vic­Washington beat the under­Lindsay's fluke goal at 8:06 oftories against Ottawa and Hart­manned Red Wings. the third period. Lindsay, at­ford. 
Detroit, playing its fifth game tempting to feed Claude La­in eight days as part of a stretch pointe on a 2-on-1 break, hadNorth Stars 4, Rangers 2 in which it plays 11 times in 18 his pass deflect off falling de­days, was without injured fenseman Glen Featherstone
Stu Gavin's tie-breaker trig­
forwards Sergei Fedorov and and behind Moog. 
gered a three-goal burst in 92 
Dallas Drake and rested Sundin and Scott Young had
seconds of the third period as 
defenseman Mark Howe. the other goals for Quebecthe North Stars beat New York, The Red Wings are winless in while David Shaw and Stevebreaking a nine-game winless three games (0-2-1). after a Heinze connected for the Bru­streak against the Rangers. 
streak of six wins in seven ins. 
Rice's 1OOth TD catch matches Largent's record 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP)-Jerry for second with Don Hutson surpassed Largent's mark for Rice is in a league of his own as (99). receptions in a career. a wide receiver. His next Rice, the 49ers' top draft Rice was playing in his 120th touchdown catch will prove it. choice in 1985 from tiny Mis­game when he caught Largent, 
Rice had his tOOth career sissippi Valley State, will get a who took 196 games to get his scoring reception Sunday dur­shot at breaking the record next tOOth. None of that takes away ing the San Francisco 49ers' Sunday when the 49ers play from the accomplishments of 20-14 win over the Philadelphia host to the Miamia Dolphins. Largent during a 14-year ca­Eagles, matching Steve Should it happen, it would be reer with the Seattle Seahawks, Largent's all-time record. the third of Largent's records to said Rice. "I have a lot of 
"I wanted to surpass Steve fall this season. respect for Steve Largent, and Largent, but I think everything Earlier this year, Buffalo's the things I really like about happens for a reason and James Lofton eclipsed Largent's him was that he ran precise there's always next week," said record for receiving yardage routes, he played hard and he Rice, who entered the game tied and Washington's Art Monk had a big heart," Rice said. 

-
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, December 1, 1992 
An unidentified USC ballcarrier breaks the tackles of Bobby Taylor (21) and another Notre Dame defender. 





The Observer I Marguerite Schropp 

The Notre Dame defense converges on an unidentified Trojan ball 
carrier. Although effective at stopping the run, the USC passing game USC speedster Curtis Conway drops a sure touchdown in the first half. The wide open Conway and his fellow gave the Irish fits most of the night. receivers still managed over 300 yards in receptions of Trojan quarterback Rob Johnson's passes. 
9 .. ~ ...... ~ . . .. \ .. ~ . J • ­

The Observer page 15
Tuesday, December 1, 1992 
-

Williams' speed, Taylor's talent lead Irish past Aussies B-ball 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Sports Writer 
It was a classic clash between a flash of quickness and speed, and a decidedly more laid-back and less-talented group of ath­letes. 
As the game started it looked as if the JACC would be treated to a second showing of the Monty Williams show, and they were. The 6-8 Williams was all over the court, scoring the Irish's first seven points on one foul shot and three flashy drives to the basket. 
As the Aussies scored eight straight points to close to within eight at 20-12, the only returning starter from last year's NIT finalists, sophomore forward Billy Taylor, took con­trol. 
Taylor finished the half with a team-high 16 points, but his play was actually not the real surprise of the game. It came from the lone healthy freshman on the Irish roster, a 6-2 guard from Roscoe, Illinois, Ryan Hoover. 
The calm and collected 
Hoover simply took over the 
point guard position for Lamarr Justice in Just his second college game and hit a bank-shot, slipped a back-door pass to Carl Cozen for a score. 

Hoover was so impressive that he started the second-half for Justice. In fact, Hoover's 13­point performance, highlighted by three treys, earned a loud roar from the sparse JACC crowd when he left the game for good. 
"I thought I'd get a chance to play more," explained Hoover, who averaged over 27 points a game last season at Rockton Hononegah High, "So I just did what coach asked me to. I was a little more relaxed tonight and I went out there with noth­ing to prove." 
Meanwhile, Williams was capping off the Irish rout with an outstanding 20-point, 15­rebound performance, featuring a couple more effortless no-look passes and driving lay-ups. 
"The big difference tonight was conditioning, I'm getting up and down the court better," noted Williams, ''I'm not where I want to be, but it's starting to come along." 
Williams, who has made a dramatic return since being di-
Guatemalan Imports 
Christmas Sale • Fundraiser Reductions up to 50% Many New Items 
Win $60 in merchandise you pick! Enter Raffle $1 per chance $3 for 5 chances 
Notre Dame Sorin Room in LaFortune November 30-December 5 
Sponsored by Amnesty International 
agnosed with a heart ailment, said he has been nervous play­ing his first games since an outstanding freshman cam­paign, even if it doesn't show on the court. 
"Because of pressure I have put on myself," remarked Williams, "Sometimes I try to make big plays instead of just doing the little things. But you can never push yourself too much." 
And all this time, the trusty Taylor was swishing jumpers and tearing down rebounds in the best game of his young ca­reer, surpassing his previous 22-point game against Loyola last year with a 24-point effort. 
"Being the only player with a lot of experience, I've been trying to do as much as possi­ble," said Taylor, who hails from Chicagoland's West Aurora High, "I've just been con­centrating more on my shots and also getting open easier. 
"My personality is such that I let my actions speak louder than my words, and I think that if my teammates see me working hard, they will work hard as well." 
Hopefully, this apparent clash of styles between tonight's starring cast of the restrained pair of Taylor and Hoover and the magical flash of Williams and Russell will be the perfect formula for many more Irish blowouts. 

The Observer I Marguerite Schropp Monty Williams out leaps an unidentified opponent for a rebound in last night's exhibition game. 
Happy Birthday, "Beanie" Hallisey! 21 and still picking Love, D.O., Bumbo, Matzo, Ball, Mina & Dan 
Mr. Pickwick's Stories for a Christmas Evening 
Tonight in Washington Hall 8: 10 pm Students $7 Non-Students $10 
An evening ofholiday entertainment for the young and old. Many Christmas songs, poems, and carols of1860's England have been combined into a delightful performance that would warm the cockles ofeven old Scrooge's heart. 
Tickets available at the LaFortune Information Desk, 239-8128 Sponsored by: SUB, VIVA, & The Student Activities Office. 

continued from page 20 
coach John MacLeod said. "But we were standing around too much offensively in the first half. I thought we moved the ball with better rhythm in the second half." 
In the second half, the Irish were as sharp as the Aus­tralians were sluggish. 
Freshman Ryan Hoover started the half at point guard and made a quick impact, con­tributing in all aspects of the game, including initiating a mini-run with a spectacular driving layup midway through the half. 
In the 11-2 spurt that fol­lowed, Hoover, Williams and sophomore Malik Russell showed their versatile skills with some tough inside moves and some slick assists that put away the Australians for good. 
"(Hoover) responded very well with the first unit," MacLeod said. "He plays under control and he is a good shooter. He has a lot of offen­sive skills." 
Rebounding was a main area of concern for MacLeod in Monday's game and he saw some encouraging signs. Williams pulled down a game­high 15 boards and Russell was next with 13. 
"We have to be active on the boards," MacLeod explained. "We are not a particularly big club so we have to concentrate on blocking out and getting the big rebounds." 
Poor field goal shooting hurt the Australians and helped Notre Dame's defensive cause. Pat Reidy collected 19 points for the All-Stars, but he hit only 8 of 24 shots from the field. Former Connecticut star John Gwynn was next with 17. 
Taylor's 24 points led the Irish, and Williams finished with 20. 
Although they are pleased with the outcome, the Irish realize that it was merely an exhibition, and the regular sea­son will bring much tougher competition. 
"It was a building game, a learning game," MacLeod commented. "We are making strides, and we have to con­tinue to improve as the season goes along." 
IRISH ITEMS: Junior Jon Ross spent the game on the bench with a case of Achilles tendonitis. He is expected to be back at practice on Wednesday. . . The Irish open the regular season Friday in Chicago against Loyola. The home opener is set Cor Sunday against Evansville...The Aus­tralian team will visit Louisiana Tech tomorrow Cor the final game or their trip before look­ing Cor more girls and more beers on a side trip to New Or­leans. 
.rr:titttt~ 
+BARBER SHOP t 
.HOURS: MON-FRI 8:00-5:30 • • SAT 8:00-3:00 • 
2112 South Bend Avenue • 
-
•

• Appointments if desired • 
272 6722 

~ Serving tlie~ 9{ptre 'Dame + communityfor over 30 years + 
~~~~~~~~~~=============~ •••••••••~ 
~----­
~ 
page 16 
-
Game··---•...-­
_§'" ... 

-_ -t··-~-s ··-·._.:::.:_:_ -_ 
. ~
No

& RICHKURZ 
Sports Writers 
For Reggie Bro 

Gipp's season yards per averaged 8.1 
doesn't have 
ashamed of. 
the Irish, and his two 200._ yard games ties him for first place in that statwitb Jiul Stone and Vegas Ferguson. If' Brooks had been able to play much of the fourth quarter~
Ferguson's 
record of 255 
*****•-.. 
Craig Hent:fieh much of the day V()rnitlng from the flu. and at least six other players< wiire a.lS(t. affected. The team flew back to South Bend. earlier in th~ day than theY had planned on the advice ofth:e team doctor, That. however. meant the playerswereil'~··•ablt!· to····. spend the day at DiSneyland~ · a trip that has become something of following Southern Cal. 
**"'*"'*"'*"'* 
usc wore1960'sstfle uni~ forms to celebrate the 100th year of Trojan football. "We were trying to bring back some of the old tradition,.. said Smith. "'It was a neat jersey anyway." "' 
*"'"'**"'"""** 
For the first time this 

USC is headed to the Free~ dom Bowl on December 29 against Fresno State. Bowl representatives from the Blo~kbuster Bowl were on hand, but the NotJ.'eiDame win and the Trojans loss to UCLA the week before appear to have dropped USC from consideration. Rep-, resentatlves from the Sugar and Cotton .Bowls witnessed Notre Dame's win. 
-
HOUSES 
FoR RENT 

93-94 4 & 5-6 Bedrooms Fully Furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers 
287-4989 
Listed with off­
campus housing 

_______________________, 
The Observer 

usc 
continued from page 20 

Reggie Brooks 

The three-point USC lead could have been, and should have been seven, but Conway dropped a sure touchdown at the goaline two plays earlier. "Curtis is going to catch that ball nine times out of 10, but it just happened that he dropped that one." said Johnson. 
"It was a lack of concentra­tion," Conway said. "Rob threw a perfect pass, but I took my eye off the ball. He had some pressure, but he put the ball right where we wanted it." 
Starting at their own 20, the Irish went 80-yards on only five plays in their final possession of the half. Brooks capped the drive with his second touchdown, outrunning the USC secondary for a 55-yard score and a 17-13lead. 
USC couldn't answer on its next possession, but Notre Dame's Charles Stafford and Mike Miller collided on the punt return, causing a fumble which Jeff Kopp recovered for the Trojans at the 28-yard line. Three plays later Ford kicked a 32-yarder to pull USC within one at the half, 17-16. 
The second half proved more of the same. Brooks running, Johnson throwing, and two overmatched defenses. 
Notre Dame and Brooks struck first on a 65-yard, eight play march capped by the se­nior running back's third score of the day. Brooks took the ball from Mirer, and following a key block from fullback Jerome Bettis, scampered 44-yards down the sideline untouched. 
The Trojans answered with a 67 -yard, five play drive of their own, which included three pass completions for 10 or more yards, the longest coming on the 18-yards scoring pass to tailback Estrus Crayton. 
The score remained 24-23 until midway through the fourth period when Bettis barreled through the Trojan defense from eight yards out, set up by a 42-yard run from Brooks. 
It appeared time had run out on the Trojans when on their next possession the Notre Dame defense stiffened, stopping USC on downs. But after holding Brooks and Bettis from the first down and forcing a Hentrich punt, USC got one last chance with the ball at their own 20 and 2:29 remaining. 
Johnson picked away at the soft Notre Dame zone. Four completions and a run by Strother put USC in Irish terri­tory at the 46. On the next play, Johnson hit Hannah 41 yards down the left sideline despite blanket coverage by Carter and what appeared to be an inter­ception. 
"I had the ball first and then he made a better play on the ball then I did," said the junior cornerback. "Never, at Notre Dame or in high school has that ever happened to me." 
After a USC time-out, Irish defensive end Devon McDonald sacked Johnson for a seven yard loss. After using its final time-out, Johnson brought the Trojans to the line with only 19 seconds remaining. 
Standing in the shotgun, h1: dropped two steps back and looked to the left corner of the endzone to Morton who was be­ing covered by Irish cornerback Greg Lane. In front of Morton and Lane was Carter, covering his man in the right flat. As 
Tuesday, December 1, 1992 
said Johnson. "But I wanted to give Johnnie (Morton} a chance one-on-one." 
It was the only mistake made by the USC quarterback in a ca­reer day. He finished with 302 yards passing, completing 27 of 41 attempts, all career marks. 
Notre Dame hammered the USC defense on the ground. Ranked sixth nationally in rush defense, allowing under a hun­dred yards rushing per game the Trojan defense allowed 330 yards on only 45 carries. 
"They line up and ran right at us," said Smith. "It was difficult for us to match up with them and that took its toll. 
"Notre Dame has an excellent football team, and I think we just got beat by a little better team today. It has nothing to do with preparation or anything like that. It was a hard-fought game and they found a way to win, and we didn't." 


Tom Carter 

Johnson threw the ball Carter broke from his man and faded back into the flight of the ball for the game-saving inter­ception. 
"My man did a hitch and I tried to stay with him so that the quarterback would think that the receiver behind me was open," said Carter. "But you could read where he was going and I drifted back when he threw. I knew I was going to make the interception." 
"It was a bad decision. I should have thrown it away," 
~--,SUNNY'S KIM CHEE GARDEN PATIO -~·· Specializing in Traditional Korean Cuisine 
'!f.~~ 

' ,.,_ Chinese and American Hours: .. ~· ~' I d 0 d B F •t• . I M Th
~0::-:!$-(~\?-.~-n oor or ut oor anquet actlttes 1-':lrm on· ,"r' ~"<;"~'·· Sunday Special: Complete Catering Services ll·IO rm Fn & s.u 512 S. Spring Street, Mishawaka, IN 46544 (219)255-5274 Just South of Lincoln Way West Downtown 
this is flying at il'i hest. And your ticket to fly is your college diploma. If you'd like to be up  _ k _.,, {~?~.· -~-...~  
there, contact your local Marine Officer Selec­ "'._,  
tion Officer. 1-800-MARINES.  ~­ 

SENIOR 

LUI 
•

en1ors 
Wednesday 
7-9: Free Papa Johns Pizza $1 cover 9-2: celebrate diversity and travel around the world. 
must be 21 

PLEASE CONSERVE OUR RESOURCES:­RECYCLE. RECYCLE. RECYCLE. 

Ownthesk}' 
To fly is one thing. To fly with the Marine Corps is something else. They'll show you the meaning ofwings. From the wings of the F-IR Hornet to the wings you wear as aMarine a\iator, 
Capt. Dennis Hollahan will be at the LaFortune Center. O'Hara Lounge, today and tomorrow from 10:00 to 2:00. Stop bv or call 1-800-945-3088. 
I
Tuesday, December 1 , 1992 The Observer page 17 
I 
Brooks finishes off Irish 'Decade of Dominance' 

By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 
LOS ANGELES-Irish coach Lou Holtz called USC versus Notre Dame "THE game," and before the game told his assis­tants he had the feeling this year's contest would be a clas­sic game. 
On page 14 of the USC foot­ball yearbook, Coach Larry Smith has beating Notre Dame as one of his top five goals for the team. Of course, he still doesn't know what that feels like while coaching the Trojans. 
T-shirts on sale around the Coliseum pronounced the Notre Dame string of victories over the Trojans as "The Decade of Dominance." But in the previ­ous three years each of the Notre Dame wins has been by four points. Not exactly total dominance. 
This was supposed to be the year that the Trojans came to­gether to beat the Irish. The game was in L.A. and the Southern Cal rush defense was ranked sixth in the nation in rush defense, surrendering less than 100 yards per game. 
Reggie Brooks alone broke that barrier in the first half. The Irish were getting back to basics this season, which to Holtz means running the foot­ball. 
Newly Remodeled 
Notre Dame 
Apartments 
Now available for the 2nd semester and '93 -'94 school year Call 232 -8256 for info and scheduled showings 
Meanwhile, USC, formerly known as Tailback U., passed the ball 41 times. 
On their first possession, the Irish ran the ball seven straight times, covering 7 4 yards in 2:58, and scoring a touchdown. 
The Notre Dame rushing at­tack left the Trojans in the dust. Reggie Brooks thrust himself back into the Heisman picture with a performance that Mar­shall Faulk or Garrison Hearst, the leading two running back candidates for the award, would have been proud of. 
Brooks scored on runs of 12, 44, and 55 yards on his way to 227 yards on all of 19 carries, for an average of 11.9 yards a carry. 
"Brooks has had a great year, he had great stats coming in," 
Citrus Bowl decides on Crimson Tide or Bulldogs 
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) -Geor­gia or Alabama will play in the Florida Citrus Bowl on New Year's day, depending on the outcome of Saturday's SEC championship game between the second-ranked Crimson Tide and Florida. 
The decision today by Citrus Bowl officials knocked the 12th­ranked Gators (8-3) out of the Citrus picture. 
With a victory over Alabama (11-0), the Gators would play in the Sugar Bowl, the Crimson 
NATIONAL AIDS DAY December 1 
Evening of Prayer: Tuesday, December 1 8:00~9:00 Hesburgh Library Auditorium Sr. Ethne Kennedy, S.H., Associate Director, Aids Ministries Committee/Aids Assist 
& 

Fr. Ron Raab, C.S.C., Pastor, St. Joseph Church; Chairperson, Religion Committee, Aids Ministries Committee/Aids Assist 
Followed by refreshments and discussion Sponsored by Student Government and Campus Ministry 
said Smith. "We knew he was a good player. He ran well and played a great football game." 
But it wasn't an individual ef­fort by any means. Bettis helped out with 89 yards on 18 carries, getting tough yards up the middle. 
The offensive hero of the day was the offensive line, however. Time after time, they blasted holes so big that the backs weren't touched until they got five yards past the line of scrimmage. 
"I thought our offensive line performed exceptionally well," said Holtz. "Reggie Brooks got some great blocking." 
Bettis echoed his coach's sentiments. 
"I have to give credit to the offensive line," said the junior fullback. "The holes were there and we ran through them." 
It may have been a bit brash for the Irish to think they could run on a defense that good. But the Irish offense is that good. 
"Our game plan was to run the football and try to control it," said Holtz. 
It was pure power football. 
"We knew that they came up the field hard," said Bettis. "So we took the ball right up the middle at them." 
Tide would play in the Citrus and No. 8 Georgia (8-3) in the Gator. If Florida loses on Satur­day, it goes to the Gator against No. 13 North Carolina State (9­2-1), while Alabama gets the Sugar and Georgia the Citrus against No. 15 Ohio State (8-2­
")···'· 
..... 
..-::::;., .. 


The Irish are on a roll, having beaten three straight ranked teams, and for the seniors, there was no better way to finish up the regular season than with a win over the Tro­jans. 
"I was talking to (former Notre Dame center) Gene McGuire the other day," said tackle Lindsay Knapp, a fifth­year senior, "and he told me that (beating USC) doesn't really sink in until you realize that you've beaten them five times." 
When Tom Carter picked off a Rob Johnson pass in the corner of the end zone to seal the victory, Notre Dame linebacker Demetrius DuBose took his helmet off and kneeled on the field, as if to breath a sigh of relief. 
"One, I was thanking God," he said, "and two, I was just exhausted. 
"We're playing the best since I've been involved with the team," the senior said. "This team is a tribute to itself and to Notre Dame." 
•
"I thought it was a great foot­ball game," Holtz said. "It was a game where nobody gave up. It was what Notre Dame-USC should be." 
1). If Alabama wins, it would play No. 1 Miami in the Sugar Bowl. 
The Florida Citrus Sports As­sociation has a contract with the Big Ten and the Southeast­ern conferences to accept their second-place teams. 
Congratulations Michelle and Bill! 
on your 

engagement 
From, 

your brother(in-law), 
David 


FOOTBALL BANOUET FRIDAY. DEC.4 
\\• 

1AITER i\ND \\•1,!\ITRESSES 
PL!\TE UP ,!\ND BRE.!\KD0\\•1N 
,i\PPLY 
C,i\TERING E~·IPLOY~IENT OFFICE 
BASE~tENT-SDH 
10-4P~·1 

Di\ILY 


j i I 
I 
l 
I 
l 
I 

-

page 18 The Observer Tuesday, December 1, 1992 
Irish hockey loses two over break, adds two for next season 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 

During a busy Thanksgiving break, the Notre Dame hockey team dropped two games and their record to 1-11-1 on the season, but picked up two re­cruits during the early signing period. 
The Irish fell to Michigan State at home on Friday night by a score 8-4 before moving on to the Palace in Auburn Hills, Michigan, where they fell to the University of Michigan, 5-l. The two losses left the Irish with a 1-10-1 record in the CCHA. 
Coming off a weekend which featured the first Irish win of the year, Notre Dame started out slowly in front of 2,807 fans in JACC on Friday night by al­lowing Michigan State to rattle off the first five goals of the game. 
Senior center Curtis Janicke was the first to respond for the Irish by scoring on a power play with 6:23 remaining in the second period. He was assisted by freshman Brett Bruininks and junior captain Matt Osiecki. 
After another MSU tally, freshman Jamie Matushak gave the Irish their second goal of the night with assists going to fellow freshmen Jamie Ling and Jay Matushak. The Spartans scored one more time before the close of the period to leave the score at 7-2 entering the final stanza. 
Senior Dave Bankoske made it a 7-3 game only one minute and thirty one seconds into the third period on an unassisted short handed goal. Eighteen seconds after MSU's last netting of the contest, Ling scored the game's final goal on a power play with Janicke assisting. 
Junior goaltender Greg Louder, rebounding from a groin injury, allowed the first seven goals on seventeen shots through the first two periods. Senior Carl Picconatto replaced him in the third period and stopped nine of the ten shots he faced. 
"At times we were playing fairly well," said Notre Dame head coach Ric Schafer, "but not as well as we are capable of. I have higher expectations." 
Although the crowd was the second largest home attendance of the year for the Irish, as well as the second largest over the past three seasons, it paled in comparison to the audience that arrived the following evening in Auburn Hills. 
18,147 spectators showed up to watch the first ice hockey game ever played in the Palace, setting a new record as the largest crowd in a NCAA non­tournament contest. 
Notre Dame's Ling scored the first goal ever in the Palace on a power play with Osiecki and Janicke assisting. However, the Wolverines responded by net­ting twice before the period ended to take a 2-1 lead which they would not relinquish. 
Michigan held the Irish with­out a goal for the rest of the night and managed to score three more of their own in the third period to claim their 5-1 victory. 
Picconatto played well in net for Notre Dame, making sixteen saves before being removed for the final half of the third period due to a ten minute misconduct penalty. Junior Brent Lothrop filled in and saved all three shots he faced. 
The Irish out shot Michigan, 31-24. "They (the Wolverines) are a 
Women's hoops set to open season at Marquette 
Observer Staff Report 

The Notre Dame women's basketball opens its season at Marquette tonight, after drop­ping its only preseason game to Slovan Bratislava. 
The Warriors put on the court an experienced squad which finished 16-13 a season ago. 
Four starters return for coach Jim Jabir, a group which includes guard Kris Maskala who averaged 21.9 points a game last season. Also return­ing is forward Christine Kennedy who led the team in rebounding (9.6 per game) a year ago. 
The Warriors tied for first in the Great Midwest Conference, but fell to DePaul in the confer­ence tournament final. 
Last season, Notre Dame lost its first two games before re­bounding to beat Marquette 83­68 at the JACC. The Irish were led by two graduate seniors. Margaret Nowlin and Comalita 

Letitia Brown 

Haysbert who scored 17 and 16 points respectively. 
Notre Dame fell in its only exhibition game, a 83-68 loss to Slovan Bratislova. 
Letitia Bowen looked impres­sive for Notre Dame, scoring 27 points off 11 of 18 shooting from the floor. The sophomore forward also nabbed 17 re­bounds and bagged 7 steals leading the Irish in all three categories. 
Prep Plus'" For the MCAT: The Best Medical Insurance 
No one can guarantee your acceptance to medical school. But we can guarantee that you'll score your highest on the MCAT. Our unique Test Your Best"' guarantee is your insurance policy. If you're not completely satisfied with your MCAT score, we'll let you repeat the entire course ...at no charge' 
We offer expen live instruction, innovative home study materials, unlimited review in our TEST-N-TAPEs labs and lots of personal attention. That's why Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared more test takers, and produced more top MCAT scores, than everyone else combined! 
!STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
-REGISTRATION FOR THE MCAT CLASS IS: November 30 to December 15 
PHONE: 272-4135 Today! 
Senior guard Coquese Wash­ington added eleven points, while juniors Sherri Orlosky and Tootie Jones each pitched in ten. 
Along with these four, junior Kara Leary is expected to start in tonights game against Mar­quette. 
Notre Dame was picked to finish second in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference by the coaches at media day. Xavier, the 1991-92 regular season champion was picked to finish first. 
At the same event, Washing­ton was selected as a member of the preseason second team ali-MCC team. 
Following the game with the Warriors, Notre Dame will have its first of four games against ranked opponents. Ninth­ranked Purdue visits the JACC on Friday night. 
very good hockey team," said Schafer, who predicted that Michigan will be one of the Fi­nal Four in this year's NCAA tournament. 
"We've come a long way from our first loss against Michigan," Osiecki said. "It's just a matter of getting a few breaks and putting up a few wins instead of losses." 
The squad's freshmen con­tinue to play outstanding hockey, as they scored three of Notre Dame's five goals this weekend and earned three as­sists. Ling, who had two goals and an assist on the weekend, is currently on top of the CCHA scoring chart with eighteen points. 
Although the Irish did drop both contests this weekend, they can find solace in the fact that they have already signed two prospects during the early signing period. 
Tim Harberts, a center from Wayzata, Minnesota, was one of the most highly recruited centers in the nation. On top of leaving Wayzata as the career scoring leader, he has also played for the United States Se­lect-16 Team as its top forward. Minnesota, Harvard, and Wis­consin were the three other schools which he was most se­riously considering. 
Ben Nelsen, a defenseman from Plymouth, Minnesota, was considered one of the premier defensemen in Minnesota high school hockey as well as one of the top players in the USHL. 
Also seriously recruited by Boston College, Brown, Minnesota and Vermont, he will add a potent offensive threat to the Notre Dame blue line. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Student bowl game tickets will be on sale December 9-11 from 9 a.m.-5 p.m. at the JACC Gate 10 ticket windows. Notre Dame's opponent will be announced on December 6 and at that time the bowl and ticket prices will be announced. 
All interhall football coaches should return their all-league ballots to Jenny Marten's box in the Observer office on the 3rd floor of LaFortune as soon as possible. If you did not receive a ballot please contact the Observer. 
SportsTalk welcomes football players Derrick Mayes, Todd Norman and Aaron Taylor on WVFI 640 AM at 8 p.m. tonight. Call in with questions and comments at 239-6400. 
Shear Image Hair & Tanning Salon 
328 1/2 Dixiewav N. Roseland Next to Pepe's Mexican Rest. 
1 0°/o discount on all services 
with a student 1.0. We now have 2 tanning beds to better serve you. Sign up a friend for a package and receive 2 free sessions. 
Call for package prices 
Z77-1934 
Oak Room 
Breakfast Club 
Free breakfast! Free football mug! 
Pick up your breakfast club card at the Oak Room, Decio or Waddicks 
Join today for big savings! 
.... 

Today II. ­
Tuesday,••December 1, 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 

BUT l'LL TElL '/OlJ T~P...T, 
WI-lEN l'M t>..T SO\OOL, MY 
MoM P\JTS ON A Pt>..TRIOTIC. 
LEOTAR\), A CAPE, ANI) 
Kl'lEE· 1-\\<:rl-\, 1-\\GI-H-\EELED BOOTS, AND 51-\E f\G\-1\S CRIME A~ A. SUP'i:R ~~\1'-lE. 
\~~ 
~"
10 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Guru 5Adequate 9 Hedda Gabler's 
creator 14 Occasional, in 
Edinburgh 15 Baby seals 16 Statement of 
faith 17 Cordelia's 
father 18 On the main 19Weird 20 This may lead to 
a Ewing score 22 Confusion of voices 23 Starts for Athenians 24 Life-jacket material 
26Arid 61 A.M. repast 28 Makes an effort 63 Foreign 32-·Ski 
64"Casino 36 "Cogito, -Royale" role: sum" 1967 38 Anatomical 
65 Olfactory organ 
passages 66 Hawaiian porch 39 Furnish 67 "-1 built a 41 Messy; railroad ..." disheveled 68 It may be good43 "-Uke It Hot" or bad44 European 69 Plumbers' foes 

vacationland 46 Herb for 70-off (irate) 
liqueurs 71 Containers in 
47 Unspoiled Cumbria 
49 A.B.A. member 
51 Staff of life 

DOWN
53 Baseballer Tim 1 Sing a scale 
58 "It's a 2 Pertaining to Wonderful Life" space director 
3 Comprehend 
4 Blue planet 
5 Few and far 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
between 6 River in 
Yorkshire 7 Tom Foley, e.g. a Second city of 
Japan 9lnsulated chest 10 Show a zero balance 

BILL WATTERSON 

I 1-\0P't. 'IO\J'RE t\LL DlJL'( 11'<\I'RES~t.D. 1\-lM-lK '{<1J 'JER.~ MlJC\·1 . 


27 Stagger 29 Branches 30 Cooking amts. 31 Fill 32 Part of a 
basilica 33Goad 34 The Eternal City 35 "Never give a 
sucker an-" 37 Sudden burst of wind 40 A freshwater fish 

LECTURES  
Tuesday 12:30 p.m. Lecture: "Transition to Democracy: Southern Europe vs. Eastern Europe," Valerie Bunce, Cornell University. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 3:30 p.m. Lecture: "Poland 1992: A Librarian's Perspective," Robert Miller. Faculty Lounge, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by The Friends of the Library. 7:30p.m. One Man Performance, "The Gift of Peace: The First Six Chapters of St. Luke's Gospel," Leonardo Defilippis, actor. Regina Hall Chapel, Saint Mary's College.  
CAMPUS  
Tuesday 4:15 p.m. Colloquium in History and Philosophy of Science, "Romantic Oversight: Experimenting and Administering in Germany AI:"ound 1800," Michael Dettelbach, Stanford University. Room 131, Decio Hall. Sponsored by Reilly Center for Science, Technology and Values and Notre Dame Program in History and Philosophy of Science. 8:10 p.m. Viva 92/93 Series, "Mr. Pickwick's Stories for a Christmas Evening." Washington Hall. Sponsored by Student Union Board and Student Activities. Wednesday 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. UNICEF Card Sale. Concourse, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's.  

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Early plumbers 
EARLY WEEK SPECIAL  
Today's Soecial: 1 Medium ~395Pepperoni Pizza ~ (Additional toppings 95¢ per pizza) Valid at participating S[Ores only. Not valid with any Call Now other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limired ro ensure safe driving. OurNO 271,0300 drivers carry less than $l0. Our dri\'ers are nol penalized for hue deliveries. © 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc.SMC 289,0033  

MENU 

Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Country Fried Steak  Deli Bar  
Baked Pollack w!Herbs  Pizza Bar  
Cheese Enchiladas  Turkey Tetrazzini  

42 Inuit canoe 45 Work-crew boss 48 Rafsanjani and 
Bani-Sadr so Swapped 52 Monastery's 
main man 54"-for You," Dylan song 
55 Ruth's mother-in-law 56 German iron and steel city 57 British guns sa Dial 59 Seed wings: Bot. eo-colada 62 Suffix with infer 

ay Perm 
$1995

includes shampoo, conditioner and haircut (additional charge for longer hair) an $8.00 savings expires 12/31/92 
tanning beds 1 0 for $35QQ or 
we 
$5QQ per single session 
with student ID 
ffas Your Tan 
FADED? 
Revive your tan with our 
EUROTA 
... 
Sports 
• 
page 20 
MIKE SCRUDATO 
Random Thoughts 
Bowl picture waits for Seminole decision 
Who are we playing in the game? 
That is the question on a lot of people's minds, as the semester and the college football season draw to a close. 
The only thing that appears to be set in stone is that Miami and Alabama will play for the national championship in the Sugar Bowl if the Tide beat Florida on Saturday. 
If this happens it appears that the Cotton Bowl, which has the next choice, will invite third-ranked Florida State to play Southwest Conference champion Texas A&M, which auto­matically plays in the Cotton. 
"We have to do what is best for the Cotton Bowl, but keep in mind what is best for Texas A&M," Cotton Bowl selection chairman Jim Brock said. 
Some people, however, are speculating that the Seminoles will pass on the trip to Dallas and play Nebraska in the Orange Bowl, instead. They are allowed to do this because the Coalition allows teams to pass for three reasons: a regular-season rematch, a third straight bowl appearance or economic reasons. 
Florida State could pass due to the third condition. The Seminoles would make $1.2 million more in the Orange. If they opt to do so, Notre Dame would go to Dallas to face the undefeated Aggies, while Syracuse and Colorado travel to Tempe for the Fiesta Bowl. 
Now that you have that straight, let's discuss the possibilities if Florida upsets Alabama in the Southeastern Conference title game. 
This would put the Gators in the Sugar Bowl and knock the Tide into the Citrus Bowl, where the SEC runner-up is locked into. In this scenario, the Seminoles would face Miami in the Fiesta Bowl. The Hurricanes cannot pass on such a game because it is a number-one versus number-two matchup. The fact that the teams have already played is meaningless.~ 
This would leave the Aggies and Irish to play for second place in the Cotton Bowl, and Nebraska would most likely face Syracuse in the Orange. 
The bottom line of this mess is that Miami will be playing either Alabama or Florida State for the national championship, unless Texas A&M somehow jumps to second in the polls. 
Notre Dame will most likely be playing the Aggies in the Cotton Bowl, unless Florida State accepts the Cotton's invitation. If that happens, the Irish will probably face Nebraska in the Orange Bowl. 
The Cotton Bowl is the best place for the Irish to go. It gives them an opportunity to face an undefeated team which is ranked ahead of them, and a win there could give the Irish the second spot in the polls. 
INSIDE SPORTS 

Tuesday, December 1 , 1992 

Irish run streak to ten in a row 
. The Observer I Marguerite Schropp Regg1e Brooks (40) runs around the block of Lake Dawson during Saturday night's 31-23 victory over USC. Brooks had 227 yards in the game. 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 

LOS ANGELES -The foreshadowed 
"Decade of Dominance" became a reality 
Saturday as a late vindication by Tom 
Carter and a Heisman-like performance 
by Reggie Brooks led Notre Dame to a 
31-23 win over USC at the Los Angeles 
Coliseum. 

"I thought it was a great football game," said Irish coach Lou Holtz. 
Girls and beer help Irish defeat Aussies 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 

Girls and beer helped lift the Notre Dame men's basketball team to a decisive 101-68 exhibition win over the Victorian All-Stars from Australia Mon­day at the Joyce Center. 
On their exhausting tour of the United States, some of the Australian players have been more concerned with scouting the local bars than the opposing teams, and it showed against the Irish. 
"Some of our guys are interested in working hard and improving," Victorian coach Ian Stacker said. "But some of them are more interested in looking for girls and drinking a few Budweisers. I am very embarrassed with the way we played." 
From the opening tip the Irish dominated the game, jumping out to a 12-0 lead behind seven quick points from senior Monty Williams. 
Despite the great start, Notre Dame's half-court offense was stagnant for much of the first half, but their improved conditioning was too much for the All­Stars. Sophomore Billy Taylor provided much of the Notre Dame offense in the opening half, scoring 16 of his game high 24 points, while Williams added nine points and 10 rebounds. 
"We've had some good, hard (practice) sessions and we've made some improvements in our conditioning," Irish 
see B-BALUpage 15 
"There were a lot of critical plays. It was a game where nobody gave up. It was what Notre Dame-USC should be." 
Brooks rushed for 227 yards on 19 carries and scored on touchdown runs of 12, 55, and 49 yards despite suffering from the flu, which forced him to remove himself from a number of plays. 
But Brooks effort may not have been enough if Carter hadn't intercepted Trojan QB Rob Johnson's pass in the endzone, two plays after he allowed a 41-yard reception to Travis Hannah to put USC within scoring distance. 
Both teams revealed their strategies early. Johnson attempted four passes in the game's opening five plays, while Notre Dame's first drive consisted of seven straight run plays. 
The two teams quickly found success. USC went 60-yards in 12 plays, highlighted by Johnson's three completions to split end Johnnie Morton. The offense stalled in Irish territory and settled for a 35-yard Cole Ford field goal. 
Notre Dame countered with a seven play, 7 4-yard drive in which Brooks ran three times for 36-yards including the 12-yard scoring pitch giving the Irish a 7-3lead. 
"Our game plan was to run the football and control it," said Holtz. "I thought our offensive line performed exceptionally well, and it was a tremendous job of running by our backs." 
Johnson picked up where he left off in the Trojan's second possession. Completions of 17 and 19-yards to flanker Curtis Conway and a 23-yard strike to Morton set up a one-yard touchdown leap by tailback Deon Strother, returning the lead to USC, 10-7. 
The two teams exchanged turnovers on their next possessions. An interception of a Rick Mirer pass by Trojan safety Stephon Pace at the Notre Dame 31 set up a golden scoring opportunity. But after gaining only nine yards on its first three plays, USC coach Larry Smith decided to go for it on fourth down, using a play which victimized his own defense in an early season win over Washington State. 
Johnson faked a fumbled snap, then took three steps back before lofting a pass over the middle intended for tight end Yonnie Jackson. Irish safety Jeff Burris was not fooled on the play, staying with Jackson and batting away the pass. 
Craig Hentrich kicked a 37-yard field goal to tie the score, and Ford converted his second attempt of the day, this one from 38-yards out, bringing the score to 13-10. 
see USC/page 16 

Lions await Irish volleyball in NCAA 
SyDAN PIER 
Sports Writer 
The Thanksgiving holiday weekend turned out to be a good news-bad news affair for the Notre Dame women's vol­leyball team. 
The good news included the completion of a regular season among the best in program history, a berth in the NCAA Volleyball Championship, and Regional Coach of the Year honors for head coach Debbie Brown. 
The bad news consisted of a season­ending loss to USC and the announcement of Notre Dame's NCAA first-round opponent, powerful Penn State, and location, Penn State's Rec 
Hall. · Notre Dame tried to view .the tidbits of bad news as a series of challenges 
rather than disappointments, beginning with the USC match. The 22nd-ranked Irish fell to number 11 Southern Calon 
Friday, 15-5, 15~12. 15-10. 
"It could potentially be a setback, but we don't look at it thaJ way," sald Brown of the defeat. "Teams like to go into the tournament playing their best volleyball, which is not what we did Friday; But Jhave a lot ofconfidence m this team, ueca1JSe from losses Mltfir,~:v Dame. threat came in game two, when the Irish led late but faltered. Katie Haller powered the USC attack with 16 kills and 16 digs, while Christy Peters chipped in 15 kills and Jessica Fiebelkorn garnered 13 digs in a losing cause. 
Despite ending on a negative note, the Notre Dame squad has every reason to be proud of its regular season accomplishments. The Irish went 30*7 for only the third 30-win season in program history, and are ranked 22nd in the nation by the coaches' poll. The year also included Midwest Collegiate Conference regular season and tournament championships, a plethora of conference awards including Player of the Year for Jet;sica Fiebelkorn and Coach of the Year for Debbie Brown, and victories over three nationally ranked squads. 
All that success has earned Notre Dame its spot in the upcoming tournament, but that spot is not an easy one to he in. Penn State (27-3} is ranked ninth in the nation and is 183-8 in R@Q tlall since 1980, including 69 wins in its last 70 matches there. Once 
again; Brown is upbeat in facing a dif~ ficultsituation•. 
·· ..•.• "A ~(}t of peuple have talklld about it being a tQ\lgh draw/' said Nptr" Dam0's . ·....·'<Aut t~~(~ okay. . anything to iose, 
.,x¢\lses. We'll • 








