
The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 38 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Candidates debate issues, Stockdale calls it gridlock 
ATLANTA (AP) -AI Gore and Dan Quayle collided over leadership, the environment and the economy Tuesday night in a crackling debate of vice presidential candidates spiced by James Stockdale's passionate denunciation of the political gridlock in Washing­ton. 
President Bush and Quayle were like "deer caught in the headlights" when the recession struck, Gore charged, paralyzed and unable to re­spond. He pledged that he and Democratic presidential candi­date Bill Clinton "stand for change." 
Quayle quickly retorted that Clinton and Gore would "make matters much worse. Jobs will be lost," he said, adding that the Democrats would raise taxes and spending, as well. 
The Republican incumbent bore in on Clinton as an un-

VICE PRESIDENTIAL 

DEBATE 
A T L A N T A 
trustworthy man, declaring at one point, "Bill Clinton has trouble telling the truth." Gore responded immediately, re­minding Quayle of Bush's 1988 convention vow, "Read my lips, no new taxes," and a number of other Bush statements. 
Quayle's was a finger-waving, combative demeanor from the outset, attacking Clinton in vigorous manner over and over. He accused Gore several times of "pulling another Clin­ton," by which he apparently meant lying. 
Stockdale exploded at one point after Quayle and Gore ar­gued, saying, "I think America 
see DEBATE/ page 4 


The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 

Golf n' Stuff 

Junior Rich Toohey waits for a student outside of DeBartolo Hall. Toohey is manager of the golf cart service, which is available free to all students temporarily disabled. All drivers volunteer their time and service. 



Mother Teresa given Notre Dame award 
Special to The Observer 
Mother Teresa of Calcutta has been selected by the University of Notre Dame as the second recipient of its Notre Dame Award for international humanitarian service, Univer­sity President Father Edward Malloy announced Tuesday. 
"She is one of those precious few human beings whom one hesitates to describe, because words truly cannot do justice to her accomplishments," Malloy said. 
The Notre Dame Award was established in celebration of the University's Sesquicentennial to honor persons "within and without the Catholic Church, citizens of every nation, whose religious faith has quickened learning, whose learning has engendered deeds, and whose deeds give witness to God's kingdom among us." 
Mother Teresa is the first in­ternational figure to receive the award, which was presented last year to former President Jimmy Carter and his wife, 

Mother Teresa 
Rosalynn. 
Born Agnes Gonxha Bojaxhiu in Skopje, Albania in 1910, Mother Teresa was first sent to Calcutta, India in 1929 as a member of the missionary order the Sisters of Loretto. 
In 1946, after hearing what she calls "a call within a call" from God, she began a life de­voted to caring for the aban­doned and dying people she and her fellow sisters found in the streets of Calcutta. "We cannot let a child of God die like an animal in the gutter," she said. 
Receiving the Nobel Peace Prize in 1979, Mother Teresa departed from the customary Oslo ceremonies by leading participants and press people in a recitation of Saint Francis of Assisi's prayer for peace. 
The Missionaries of Charity, an international religious order which Mother Teresa founded in 1950, aspire to a life which combines contemplative prayer with active service to the poor and unwanted. The order has 30 communities in the United States and are active in 100 countries worldwide. 
Mother Teresa is the first Notre Dame Award recipient to be announced on October 13, called the University's Founder's Day because in the Catholic liturgical calendar it is the feast of St. Edward, patron saint of the University's founder, Father Edward Sorin. 
Arrangements for Mother Teresa's acceptance of the award will be announced at a later date. 



Marilyn Quayle to address law society 
By DAVID KINNEY 
News Editor 
Marilyn Quayle, wife of Vice President Dan Quayle, will address the Notre Dame Law School chapter of the Christian Legal Society Thursday at 12:30 p.m. 
She will speak in the Barry Courtroom of the Law School, and due to space limitations, the speech will be open to members of the Notre Dame community and the media only. The court­room holds 200 people. 
During Thursday's cam­paign in Indiana, Quayle will visit a school in New Albany, hold a press conference in Terre Haute and attend a fund-raiser for Republican women candi­dates in Indianapolis. 
The visit comes on the heels of a poll released Sat­urday by the Indianapolis Star that said Gov. Bill Clin­ton and President George Bush are running neck-and-

Marilyn Quayle 
neck in Indiana. 
"Certainly Indiana is a key state for us," said Darcey Campbell, assistant press secretary for the Bush cam­paign. "We are not taking any state for granted, and will continue to campaign hard in states like Indiana." 
The poll showed that 42 percent of the respondents favor Clinton, while 41 per­cent favor Bush. Despite a 
3.5 percent margin of error, the survey revealed a marked gain for Clinton, who trailed Bush 50 to 41 percent in a September Star poll. 
Quayle, a native of Indi­anapolis, earned a bache­lor's degree in political science from Purdue Uni­versity and a law degree from the Indiana University School of Law. 
She remains an active participant in the legal field, serving as honorary co­chair of the Republican 
National  Lawyers  As­ 
sociation  and  honorary  
chair  of  MENTOR,  a  

program in which lawyers help high school students understand law and the legal system through partnerships between schools and law firms. 
Campbell said she expects other high-level representa­tives to visit the state before election day. 
The event is sponsored by 
see QUAYLE I page 4 


Cultural Diversity Task Force releases recommendations 
By PANCHO LOZANO News Writer 

After over a year of compiling its information, the Task Force on Cultural Diversity is ready to implement the action plans devised by the task force, ac­cording to Father Richard Warner, co-chairman of the task force. 
These action plans were de­veloped as a response to the recommendations presented in the final report of the task force. 
The deadline was originally set for October 1, but had to be postponed due to delays in pro­cessing the information on the recommendations. 
A subcommittee was formed this summer to collect and assess the reactions to the rec­ommendations issued in the preliminary report this past April. 
Each department and com­mittee was shown the recom­
mendations and asked to assess how those recommendations could be implemented in the most effective manner. 
"We covered a lot of ground and had very encouraging re­sponse by the officers," said Warner, "but we must revisit those areas to make sure that the action plans are effectively enforced." 
Over the next year, the Uni­versity Committee on Cultural Diversity formed by University President Father Edward Mal­loy will meet monthly "to attend to Cultural Diversity on a continuing basis in order to give attention to matters given in the report." 
The University Committee on Cultural Diversity will consist of officers from the office of the President, the Provost, Business Affairs, Student Affairs, Student Government and other appointees. 
Some of the recommenda­
see DIVERSITY/ page 4 

Malloy delivers annual address 
By ALICIA REALE Assistant News Editor 

The University must make an effort to set educational goals and "position ourselves as an institution within the system of higher education," said Father Edward Malloy at his annual faculty address yesterday. 
"These times sap the spirit of Americans. Financial realities are forcing hard decisions to­day.. leading to a creeping paranoia in America," said Malloy. "During this war of at­trition, various levels of educa­tion have to constantly mobilize supporters." 
After examining the state of the University, there is good and bad news, according to Malloy. 
On the good side there is a balanced budget, growth in en­dowment (ND is in the top 20 in the nation), increase in internal financial aid resources, suffi­cient funds for renovation of· academic buildings, salary in­creases on faculty and staff levels and the largest fundrais­ing effort in history, according to Malloy. 
"Notre Dame has survived and flourished despite it all," he said. 
On the negative side, how­ever, there is less budget flexi­bility and resiliency, and more competition from other univer­sities for the right student mix. Fundraising is negatively af­fected by increasing numbers of universities, public and pri­vate and charities and muse­ums seeking money from the same sources, according to Malloy. 
"We need to remind ourselves that there are no shortcuts or magic potions. We simply have to live within our means," he said. "We need to translate our ideas and goals toward viable fundraising campaigns. I am confident that the best is yet to come." 
Malloy said the core mission of the University is first what faculty activities are appropri­
see MALLOY I page 4 



page 2 Friday, October 9, 1992
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 




Coffeehouses scent the aroma of life 
As the chill of fall sets into the bones, I find myself wishing for a good cup of coffee. And we're not talking instant Folgers. 
Sure, Notre Dame has Allegro-but that's a Nicole McGrath coffee shop. And they SMC Sports Editor don't play real "coffee"-------­music. (You'll see what I mean later.) Saint Mary's has Dalloway's coffeehouse. They, at least, have live acoustic sets, poetry readings and different types of drinks. 
But I miss my coffeehouses back in Santa Barbara, where the names are odd, the cafe lattes are foamy and the people are, well, strange. 
Places like the Green Dragon, Expresso Roma's or Hestia House attract art gurus, college students and time-warped types, who still want to "let love rule." 
If "The Great Gatsby" were written today, Daisy and Gatsby would frequent Kaldi's. That is the coffeehouse I worked at all summer. Kaldi's attracts real estate brokers, tourists and rich unknowns that want to keep it that way. 
Coffee is an attitude they have down to an art. 
Working the early morning shifts, I always started the day with a double mocha and played some Ella Fitzgerald. 
When the eight a.m. rush came through, Pearl Jam, Beastie Boys or Squeeze went into the tape player. Music is essential to a coffehouse's setting. 
At night, on the weekends, locals came in with their guitars, threw Guatemalen blankets on the floor and lit the room up. 
Stereo blaring, my friend Sunny would yell orders over the songs. "Double capp to go -lots of foam," she'd holler. 
Usually Margo ordered this coffee. When she wasn't jetting to New York, she was a regular who loved to gossip. 
"Triple expresso with a little half and half," I heard over the din. Conrad's favorite drink. That day, styling in an Italian suit, he had a big real estate deal. 
The CEO of Paul Mitchell Products was looking for about twenty acres of oceanfront property. He wanted to build a new corporate getaway spot. Just another day of business. 
Day in and day out, I worked with guys like Dave, a thirty-year-old Englishman; hungover all morning. 
And Jesse, who sometimes worked and sometimes auditioned new music gigs for the weekend. Depending on his mood, he sometimes never showed up. 
My friends and I took breaks as soon as everyone went home for dinner. 
We'd sit out in Kaldi's courtyard, smoking Marlboro's and having cappuccinos. "Red, Red Wine" played loudly from inside. Often we spoke about how long the summer was dragging. 
So, back in South Bend, I crave a tall, thick cappuccino. And I wouldn't even mind a long summer's day. 
By the way, tonight there will be ethnic poetry and prose readings at Dalloway's from 8-10 p.m. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Today's Staff 
Production News 
Peggy Crooks Frank Rivera Bryan Nowicki Kenya Johnson 
Sports Systems 
Jason Kelly Harry Zembillas 
Accent Lab Tech 
Julie Wilkens Pat McHugh Mary Schultze John LoGiudice 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
FRONTS: 
.. .. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY © 1992 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 


H L 
{)~U
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Pope supports Haitian bishops 
•Dominican Republic-Pope John Paul II expressed support Tuesday for Haiti's conservative bishops, who have complained to the pontiff that a U.S.-backed hemispheric embargo has I inflicted suffering. In a meeting with 20 Haitian bishops and lay people, the pope made no reference to ousted Haitian president Jean-Bertrand Aristide, a radical priest whose grassroots Catholic movement often was in conflict with the church establishment. Aristide, Haiti's first democratically elected president, has repeatedly accused the Vatican of supporting the military government that ousted him on Sept. 31, 1991. 

OF INTEREST 
•A Sports Dinner will be held from 4:45 p.m. to 6:45 
p.m. 
in North and South Dining Halls today. 

IIAn open Alcoholics Anonymous meeting will be at 6 

p.m. 
in the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education, LaFortune Mezzanine. 

•congressman 
Tim Roemer will be speaking today 

•WVFI 
presents Palcae Laundry tonight between 7 



p.m. 
and 9 p.m. The acoustical jam can be heard on 640 AM, WVFI. 


at 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge at St. Mary's.  
•Auditons for Eastern Standard, a production, will be held tonight at O'Shaughnessy, room 203A.  7  Lewis Hall P..m.  in  

MARKET UPDATE YESTERDAY•s TRADING October 13 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 184,166,400 +1.03 to 225.31 

S&P COMPOSITE 
+4.78 to 407.44 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
+27.01 to 3,201.42 
GOLD 
-$5.20 to $345.20 oz 
SILVER 
-$0.026 to $3.752 oz 
L------------------------------~ 
FORECAST 
Mostly cloudy today with a 30 percent chance of showers. Highs around 70. Cooler Thursday with a 40 percent chance of rain. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H9  L  
Anchorage  39  19  
Atlanta  68  50  
Bogota  66  45  
Boston  66  50  
Cairo  88  64  
Chicago  64  36  
Cleveland  61  38  
Dallas  89  63  
Detroit  61  37  
Indianapolis  69  36  
Jerusalem  82  63  
London  55  43  
Los Angeles  80  63  
Madrid  64  48  
Minneapolis  57  36  
Moscow  39  19  
Nashville  72  47  
New York  66  54  
Paris  57  37  
Philadelphia  64  53  
Rome  82  64  
Seattle  62  48  
South Bend  60  36  
Tokyo  66  63  
Washington, D.C.  66  50  



NATIONAL 

Court declines suits against rock star 
•WASHINGTON -The Supreme Court today refused to reinstate a pair of lawsuits that accused heavy metal rock star Ozzy Osbourne of inciting, through his music, the suicides of two Georgia teen-agers. The court, without comment, let stand rulings that said Osbourne's free-speech rights protect him against such legal action. Similar suits against Osbourne over suicides committed by youths in California and Nevada had failed previously. 
Woman dies from pig liver transplant 
•LOS 
ANGELES -A woman who received a pig liver to keep her alive died late Monday before surgeons could implant a human organ. Susan Fowler, 26, had been in critical condition since Sunday, when the pig liver was implanted next to her own during an eight­hour operation -the first pig-to-human liver transplant. The pig liver was considered a means of keeping her alive until a human organ could be found, not a permanent replacement for her own liver. 

•The 
American Cancer Society of Notre Dame Club will meet at 7:30 p.m. in the Freshman Learning Re­source Center, main room. 

•Ticket 
donations are still being taken for mentally handicapped individuals at Logan Center. Tear off your BYU (10/24) tickets and drop them off in the dining halls or the Center for Social Concerns. 

•Faculty 
interested the workshop, "Experiential Education" and community awareness/service should call Patty at 239-5319 to make a reservation. The workshop will be on October 20 from 8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1066: Normans under William the Conqueror defeated the English at the Battle of Hastings. 

• 
In 1944: German field marshal Erwin Rommel committed suicide rather than face trial and execution as a traitor to the Nazi regime. 

• 
In 1947: U.S. Air Force Captain Charles "Chuck" Yeager became the first person to fly faster than the speed of sound. 

•In 
1960: The idea of a Peace Corps was first suggested by presidential candidate John F. Kennedy. 

• 
In 1964: Civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. was named winner of the Nobel Peace Prize. 

• 
In 1986: Holocaust survivor and human rights advocate Elie Wiesel was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. 




Wednesday, Octobe r14, 1992 The Observer 
page 3 

'Rudy' scene to be filmed Koop: Preventative medicine education needed 


at halftime of B.C. game 
By BEVIN KOVALIK News Writer 
Lee Mayes, the producer of the movie "Rudy," informed the Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) last night that TriStar productions will film the main football scene of the movie during half-time of the Novem­ber 8, Boston College game. 
During the filming, the crowd will be needed to play the role of Rudy's fans and cheer him on as he suits up for his first game, according to Mayes. We need a large crowd of people to return November 9, to film the last play of the game since half-time is not long enough to shoot an entire scene, he said. 
According to Owen Rice, di­rector of the extras casting, they still need twice as many men to register for extra roles. Anyone who is still interested can sign up anytime at the of­fice trailers in the Holy Cross Annex. 
"Filming a movie on campus is a lot of fun, but you will get tired of us," said Mayes. "Try to be patient with us since we will be here until early December." 
The price of the basketball ticket booklets has been low­ered this year to $44 for eleven home games, according to Bill Schall, from ND Ticket Office. Because we were able to drop the price to $4 per game, all seats, including the lower arena will be the same price, he added. 
The student seats have also been relocated to the area un­der the basket and near the team bench, he said. "Both the coaches and players like having the fans right near them," Schall said. "Without the stu­dents, basketball is not loud and fun," he said. "Students make it an event." 
In other business, the Saint Mary's junior class will be sponsoring a lip sync contest on November 22, to benefit the YWCA, according to coordina­tor Valerie Hicks. The entry cost is $8 and both students and faculty are invited to regis­ter, she said. 


Educators challenge Catholic universities 
By NANCY DUNN News Writer 
Medical schools need to teach preventive medicine, former Surgeon General C. Everett Koop said Tuesday. 
While this would be a substantial change to the present health care system, Koop said in the long run it would be less costly. The way our nation's health system is presently organized,"income is derived from what we do to patients and not from what we do for patients," he said. 
Koop feels that the "art of medicine" has been lost. 
· Medicine is not " a series of techniques, but a philosophy of care, a philosophy of life." 
In his lecture, "Medical Schools and the Crisis in Health Care," Koop said he believes that the heart of the problem lies in the way physicians are presently trained. Pre-med students need to have greater contact with the public and other physicians, Koop said. 
As one solution, Koop 

STORM 
OVERTHE


UNIVERSI 

suggested the establishment of a mentor system where student lessons would not have to be squeezed in between a professor's research projects. 
Koop also addressed American health care, attributing the soaring cost of care to four factors. 
• 
The demand for state of the art technology has created "dueling hospitals." 

• 
The new procedures that are performed have not taken the place of, but have rather became supplements to pre­existing tests. 

• 
Pharmaceuticals are extremely expensive. 

• 
Because of the state of the American legal system, physicians are now confronted with the high cost of malpractice insurance. 


For these reasons, according to Koop, health insurance has become a luxury. He said 34.5 million Americans went without health insurance for at least part of last year. 
Koop called Medicaid a fraud because it excludes over half of the poor because they are considered to be too rich to receive help. While there is a lack of funds for some people, in other cases, billions of dollars are being spent on tests that Koop said, "patients do not want, do not need, or that physicians do not understand." 
Unless this excessive spending can be controlled, Koop said our nation will be forced into socialized medicine. 
Koop pointed out that medical schools can be a part of the solution by reducing the "crushing burden of medical school debt" that saddles new physicians. Because of this debt, he said, many physicians opt for jobs in larger cities or in specialized fields, rather than working in service poor areas such as rural communities or inner cities. 
MIAMI (AP) -A lawyer for two adopted children of a cou­ple who no longer want them since Hurricane Andrew de­stroyed their home and busi­ness told a judge today that's fine with the kids. 
"The children don't want to go back," Karen Gievers, an at­torney representing the 11­year-old boy and 7-year-old girl, said at a hearing where state officials were seeking to reunite them with Alma and Gary Knight. 
"I do not believe that going back to the Knights would be in the best interest of the chil­dren," she said. 
Couple accused of deserting children set to face judge 
By BRIAN SEILER News Writer 



STORM 
OVER THE 
Two prominent spokesper­
sons for educational problems 
UNIVERS in the United States challenged the Catholic universities in this
The state Department of Health and Rehabilitative Ser­vices still insists, as it must do under state law, that it will at­tempt to reunite the family even though neither the par­ents nor the adoptive children wish a reconciliation. 
"We know the hurricane has placed an enormous stress on parenting," said Jim Towey, a district director for the agency. "But the law is very clear. It asks us to try to reunify the family." 
The boy and girl would stay with foster parents until the case is resolved, he said. 

of financial aid monies. 
Turner focused on how Catholic universities can con­tinue as religiously based in an increasingly secular world. 
He said that in order to be effective educational facilities, 
country to adapt to the secular  Century hasl....to_r_n-th-e-"b_l_u_s_h_o_r...J  Catholic universities need to in- 
world.  innocence"  away  from  the  tegrate tradition with moder­ 
Elizabeth Kennan, president  undergraduate experience,  nity, and avoid a "retreat into  
of Mount Holyoke College, and  universities will "do well to in- Catholic tradition. "  
James Turner,  Professor of  vest their energies in reality."  Turner said that a successful  
History at the University of  The university, she said, as  Catholic University will ensure  
Michigan, spoke  about the  part of its attempt to deal with  that at least half of its faculty  
changing  function of universi­ reality,  should make an at- are Catholic,  while the other  
ties in America, especially  tempt to "address the agony of  half should be composed of dif­ 
Catholic Universities on Tues­ our  society." Among her sug­ ferent religions or non-believ­ 
day.  gestions were the stricter polic­ ers.  He believes this is neces­ 
Kennan stressed that because  ing of athletic policies and  the  sary in order to provide the  
the chaos of the Twentieth  reassessment of the distribution  "ongoing  synergy  between  
Christians and non-believers."  

McElroy: Columbus seen as heroic or greedy 
By MEGAN BRUCHAS "He is seen as taken an ar­travels Columbus gave new News Writer gious(sic) journey, who came definition of the world to Euro­across a surprise in his explor­peans, according to McElroy. Christopher Columbus has ing," said McElroy. Since European countries
Fall Break Special 
now taken on two faces re­Today, after 500 years were taking in exploration, cently, said Jerry McElroy in a Americans are still trying to McElroy said, it was inevitable lecture at Saint Mary's Tues­understand who Columbus is, that North America would have 
day. said McElroy, who believes that been discovered even if it was Columbus has been seen as a Americans must continue to not Christopher Columbus. 
Beat the Clock! 

selfish, greedy individual who learn about his history. McElroy said Columbus' voy­was out for profit, McElroy said. In over two million works that age can be used to better un­
Wed..Thurs 

Despite this he said the have been written about derstand the human spirit. tradition side of Columbus is Columbus the story seems to be "As a sailor from day one, he still important to Americans. the same with minor variations, began with a clouded dream 
5:00pm..7:30pm 

McElroy said. Through his that turned out to give him great glory," he said. 
Price of large 

Columbus' dream can teach Americans to pursue dreams. 
1 topping pizza 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 

"Everyone needs to keep
is the time you call! 

moving ahead of ourselves," he said, "keep exploring, and have
Dan and Brian Alesia 

a healthv dose of humilitv." 


r:>OJ>~
1~:ov-~0~"'"' OPEN
~"C~~rF.rii 
..._b & 7 N. h

~~qj' 19 ts 
'? 




1-ffi.. PICKWICK'S STORIES performed by 
ThE CoMeDy Of ErRoRs 

FOR A CHRISTMAS EVENING 
The National Shakespeare Company 

Tuesday, December 1 
a series ofthree outstanding performances. 
Monday & Tuesday Student Non-Student 
November 2nd & 3rd $10 1-------------1
Individual Show $ 7 

CHOROVAYA AKADEMIA
All Shows 8:10pm
All3 Shows $14 $20 Men's A-Capella Choir from Moscow 

Washington Hall Tickets: LaFortune Information Desk 

Saturday, March 20
University ofNotre Dame (219) 239-8128 

·-··-··---··---------·-----------' I 

I-----------------------------­
~------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, October 14, 1992 
Situation desperate in Sarajevo, according to U.N. official 
YUGOSLAVIA (AP) -Serbian police using clubs reportedly clashed with ethnic Albanian demonstrators Tuesday in southern Kosovo province, the next potential hot spot of ethnic violence in what used to be Yu­goslavia. 
In Sarajevo, the senior civilian 
U.N. official in the splintered Yugoslav federation said the situation was "desperate" in the Bosnian capital. Cedric Thornberry said crews trying to restore water and electricity before the onset of winter were coming under frequent gunfire. 
Fighting convulsed parts of Sarajevo. Government troops repulsed Serb infantry attacks in the western suburb of Stup, and mortar rounds targeted several other city sectors. 
Tension rose over a U.N. "no­fly" zone in Bosnia-Herze­govina. The commander of the rebel Bosnian Serbs' warplanes threatened to defy the order. In Washington, U.S. officials said the government was consulting allies on a response to reports Serb bombers were already violating the flight ban. 
While the ban the U.N. Secu­rity Council approved Friday is not militarily backed, the United States and other mem­bers have threatened to seek a resolution authorizing en­forcement. 
Yugoslav Prime Minister Mi­lan Panic appealed for calm in Kosovo and announced he would travel to the predomi­nantly Albanian province Thursday. 
Ethnic Albanians have been agitating for greater autonomy for years. 
Opposition leaders in Bel­grade have repeatedly charged that Serbia's hard-line leader, Slobodan Milosevic, could ex­ploit violence in Kosovo to un­dermine Panic's efforts to end the Yugoslav crisis. · 
Milosevic, leader of Serbia's former Communist party, has accused Panic of being too con­ciliatory in trying to end the isolation of Yugoslavia, now only Serbia and tiny Montene­gro. Milosevic's strong support for Serb militants in Croatia and Bosnia brought severe U.N. trade sanctions on Yugoslavia. 
In Kosovo, protest organizers said police officers assaulted ethnic Albanians who tried to enter the university building in downtown Pristina. 
Belgrade radio said several protesters and police officers were injured before the demonstrators dispersed early in the afternoon. A statement released by a coalition of ethnic Albanian parties said police "brutally beat up" demonstra­tors and ran over a 17 -year-old girl with a squad car. 

Smaller clashes also occurred in the towns of Lipljan, Urose­vac and Mitrovica, where sev­eral arrests were reported. 
Ethnic Albanians have boy­cotted schools and the province's single university the last two school years to protest changes in the curriculum by Serbia's Ministry of Education. They claim the changes abol­ished their right to instruction in their mother tongue. 
Nearly 100 ethnic Albanians have died in clashes with Ser­bian police in the three years since Milosevic curbed Kosovo's autonomy movement. 
Albanians account for about 85 percent of the province's 1.9 million people. Neighboring Al­bania would likely be dragged into any full-scale conflict in Kosovo. 
Speaking in Zagreb, Croatia, Thornberry said work crews again failed to repair electricity lines and water mains in Sara­jevo. Despite guarantees from Serb militias and troops loyal to Bosnia's Muslim-led govern­ment, most of the teams were shot at when they tried to re­store utilities, he said. 
U.N. officials say the resump­tion of heat and water in Sara­jevo could stave off thousands of deaths this winter. Dysentery cases already are climbing. 
Bad weather is hampering ef­forts to fly food to the city, with only a fraction of the daily 200 tons of food required getting in. 
U.N. officials said one trans­port plane was hit by fire from the ground as it approached Sarajevo airport. They did not give its nationality or other de­tails, and they gave no indica­tion the airlift would be halted. 
Bosnian Serbs control about 70 percent of Bosnia and have circled the capital for months. 

Diversity 
continued from page 1 
tions given by the task force addressed topics such as the mission statement, the curricu­lum, the undergraduate sup­port services,. and identification of responsibility for Cultural Diversity issues. 
The action plans include: 
• 
more aggressive recruit­ment of minority students for the Overseas Program, 

• 
two additional counselors in the University Counseling Center with an emphasis on sensitivity toward cultural di­versity, 

• 
an environment in resident halls which upholds cultural diversity values, 

• 
workshops for faculty and University officials on issues concerning cultural diversity. 


Warner believes that they have made great progress but the task has still not been completed. 
Malloy 
continued from page 1 
ate responsibilities for teaching and research. "We need to progress towards a balance." 
"There are unlimited de­mands placed on all of us in an institution like Notre Dame," Malloy said. 
He discussed the activity de­mands on the "professor as educator," which include: 
•For 
class preparation there are many hours of concentrated laborious preparation as the course is designed, material chosen and form of interaction chosen. 

•"The 
evaluation of student performance is the highest re­sponsibility of professorate," said Malloy. 

•Faculty 
also participate in student advising by helping students to choose majors, choose graduate schools, being dissertation directors and helping them develop better 


study skills. "The faculty per­sonify vigor and stimulation of the world of intellectual in­quiry," he said. 
•Faculty are also dedicated to scholarship and research through "a sustained effort to­wards the mastery of their field," said Malloy. "The en­gagement of one's faculty and skill in the quest for truth re­quires time." 
The University offers much toward scholarship and re­search through the libraries, labs, theaters, and many other components of ND academia. "Collaboration with colleagues on and off campus is integral to best reflection and analysis," said Malloy. 
•University 
faculty is involved in publishing in appropriate form. Malloy said, "Any mode or medium of communication is a result of one's scholarly ex­ploration." 

•Professor 
citizenship is im­portant through involvement on university, faculty and field committees. 



"The primary issue is how to strike a proper balance among the multi-faceted role (of the faculty). We need to move be­. yond the shrill rhetoric of de­spisers of contemporary pro­
fessorate," said Malloy. 

The second mission of the 
University is the best faculty 
effort to sustain and enhance 
the University, according to 
Malloy. 

•The 
University needs to ex­amine composition size and project developments. "Notre Dame predominantly remains an undergraduate institution with 75 percent of students be­ing undergraduates," said Mal­loy. "We do hope to enhance a sense of culture and community among graduate students." 

•The 
University continues to seek funding for specific pro­grams, according to Malloy. "To enhance the quality of teaching faculty needs colleague and student feedback." 

•
"We need to make sure all students receive a quality edu­cation," through mixing class 


sizes and course content. 
Notre Dame is on the fore­front of creative use of technol­ogy, according to Malloy. The DeBartolo building has blessed us with computer assistance and technology. 
"Education is more than a whiz bang delivery system," he said. "Wisdom, hard work and interaction are important but we would be foolish not to uti­lize the new gifts arriving on our doorstep." 
Reduce Reuse 
Recycle 
Mother Earth will Thank You! 

Debate 
continued from page 1 
is seeing right now the reason this nation is in gridlock," adding that Perot was the man to fix the system. 
The heated debate prompted occasional applause from an audience made up of partisans of the three men -and a few hisses, as well. That prompted moderator Hal Bruno of ABC News to say, "There's no call for that ... so knock that off." 
It was the second of four campaign debates this fall, and the format made it a lively af­fair, with one exchange after another. 
Quayle 
continued from page 1 
the Christian Legal Society, which consists of Notre Dame Law School students and faculty committed to in­corporating their faith into the practice of law. 

From West of Here 
Playing Tomorrow 
. 1 mile east of campus 
Bush, Clinton and Perot met on Sunday night, and will do so again on Thursday in Rich­mond, Va., and again next Monday in East Lansing, Mich. 
The political imperative was clear for each of the three run­ning mates: to boost the for­tunes of the man at the top of the ticket in a race that has ex­actly three weeks left to run and shows Clinton with a dou­ble-digit lead in the polls. 
Stockdale stressed his non­politician's status, and he stumbled over his words peri­odically in a demonstration of his inexperience at political combat and perhaps his lesser familiarity with some of the is­sues. 
"Don't expect me to use the language of the Washington in­sider," he said in his opening statement. "The centerpiece of my life was the Vietnam War." He went on to describe leading the first bombing run over North Vietnam, being shot down and held as prisoner of war for seven years. 
The candidates clashed briefly over the environment, the topic of a recent book by Gore. 
"I read Sen. Gore's book," said Stockdale. "I don't see how he could possibly pay for his proposals in today's economic climate," he said. 

G/arisa... D'?oses are red 23ubba's a Jfunk Jfapp_y 21sl lo ourjauorile 7Jrunk/ 

Eave, Xancy, %ary 'Pal, J/(fss_y, 23ech_y, :len, Aalhy & 23ubba 


Christine, Honey: 
We wish you all the happiness in the world on your 18th Birthday on October 15th. 
You are always in our hearts and our minds. 
With Love, Your Dearest Mom, Dad and Sis 



Wednesday, October 14, 1992 The Observer 
page 5 Schoettler: Women artists need awareness of place in art world 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 

Young women artists who are not aware of their history of struggle are doomed to repeat it, according to Ellouise Schoet­tler, a noted feminist artist. 
Schoettler, in her lecture, "Then and Now," addressed the need for women artists to be aware of their place in the art world. 
"I think it's important for women artists to see and por­tray themselves as artists," she said. "We didn't start yesterday. We've been doing this for a long time." 
Schoettler said that she developed an acute interest in the issues of women and their place in the artistic world in 1972, when she attended the First National Conference of Women and the Arts at the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. 
"It was electrifying to come into an auditorium filled with women artists," she said. "I wish I could give you a feeling of the excitement at the opening of that show." 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 

Old Notre Dame 
Graduate student Ninghuni Zhang examines a display regarding old residence halls which used to exist at Notre Dame. Zhang is a peace studies student from China. 
Pig liver transplant patient dies 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Sur­geons who tried to save a dying woman by implanting a pig's liver defended the effort Tues­day in the face of criticism that it was morally and scientifically unjustified. 
The operation was a tempo­rary measure to keep her alive until a human liver could be found. But Susan Fowler, 26, died Monday evening after a human liver was sent to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center from Utah. 
She died of complications of acute liver failure even though the pig liver transplanted Sun­day was functioning, said Dr. Leonard Makowka, head of the transplant team. 

Rapid deterioration in the woman's health caused doctors to choose the pig liver trans­plant, he said. 
"We were faced with a young woman deteriorating in front of our eyes with signs of severe brain swelling," said Makowka. 
"If we're faced again with this situation tonight, we would have to proceed." 
But a medical ethics specialist denounced the pig liver trans-
Katie Smith-You were a star even then! 
Happy 21st Birthday! 
-The Griswolds 
plant. 
"There's absolutely no basis in basic research for trying a pig liver in a human being given the differences in biology between people and pigs," said Arthur Caplan, director of the Biomedical Ethics Center at the University of Minnesota at Minneapolis. 
"But the gap in biology be­tween a pig and a person at the present time is too large to morally justify subjecting any human being to a transplant of organs from a pig," Caplan said in a telephone interview. 
Makowka insisted that a pig liver is suitable as a temporary measure. 
"I understand his concerns ... but Dr. Caplan hasn't had the benefit of years of research" into transplanted pig livers, Makowka said. 
Cedars-Sinai said Monday that the pig liver transplant was a world's first. 
But a La Jolla surgeon, Dr. Gustavo Kuster, senior consul­tant on general surgery at Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation, said two such transplants done in Belgium in 1972 were cited in a 1976 book he edited. One patient died and the other survived after the temporary transplants, he said. 

Becker awarded Nobel Prize for interest in social problems 

matrimony as a long-term agreement, he said. His theories draw students as well as controversy. 
Andrea Buraschi, a doctorate candidate in economics from Milan, Italy, said he came to the University of Chicago in part because its approach to economics, as symbolized by Becker's views, differs from other schools. 

"Here they are trying to ap­• Masks & raffle • 
ply economics to many differ­ent sociological problems," he
• tickets available on • 

said. "That is the contribution : campus in all : 
of Becker." • dorms through • 
r-:., ~ & ~ 
J ~ ov ~0 ":-.~
• HPC members, at • 

~(/)~If'~"?
: Anthony Travel (in : 

~b~~b· Karaoke
• LaFortune Ceo-• • ter), Senior Bar or • 

~o~~ Every 
• Dorm Concessions. • 
Wednesday

• 9:30-1:30 
1 mile east of campus 


Buy a $3.00 Lou Holtz mask to support Madison Center's programs for the homeless, and you'll be entered in a raffle for the following prizes: 
Grand Prize 
Round-trip airfare for two on Northwest Airlines and a week's accommodations in a luxury oceanfront condo in beautiful Kauai, Hawaii. 
First Prize 
A $500 shopping spree at Martin's Supermarket. 
Second Prize 
A weekend for two at the Drake Hotel in Chicago plus two tickets to the January 2, 1993, Bulls-Pacers game. 
A ·~;.~... Sotitt.y ~MADISON CENTER WSBT®TVii 

CHICAGO (AP) -Economics and sociology professor Gary Becker says he has "enjoyed being unpopular" for the the­ories on crime, divorce, dis­crimination and other social problems that won him the Nobel Prize in economics. 
"It's good to go against the grain," said the 61-year-old professor, the fifteenth person connected to the University of Chicago to win the Nobel eco­nomics prize in 22 years. 
Becker's theories that every aspect of human behavior can be analyzed from a business point of view were met with skepticism and distrust when he advanced them in the 1950s, and they remained controversial. 
"I have enjoyed being un­popular at times," he told re­porters Tuesday. 
Winning a Nobel Prize left him "happy, surprised, still in a bit of a shock," he said. "I didn't think it was going to happen this year." 
Sherwin Rosen, chairman of 
Schoettler said that she developed an interest in prob­lems that her colleagues face, which she said include discrim­ination and isolation. 
Showigg slides of the work of both noted classical artists and of work of modern women artists, she explained that a study of the history of art pro­vides a male bias that is damaging to women's advancement in the field. 
"[As women artists,] your role models were not available in the text," she said. "Women who made it had an escort, or a guide, to help them into the system." · 
As a result of her experience, she began to generate positive ways to help women in their work within the art world. She said that networking, support, and perseverance are necessary for women to ad­vance. 
"We tried to improve the system by establishing a net­work," she said. 
The lecture was sponsored by the Art Department at Saint Mary's. 
the economics department, said other economists were suspicious of Becker's work because he applied the disci­pline to unconventional sub­jects. 
"He has redefined the boundaries of economics to in­clude problems in economics that had gone out of style," Rosen said. 
Becker said he aimed to solve social problems when he began teaching economics 30 years ago. 
His theory that human be­havior follows the same ra­tional principles, whether it in­volves a household or a busi­ness, has influenced sociology, demography and criminology. 
He suggests that people choose their level of education depending on its economic consequences and that crimi­nals weigh the probability of getting caught more than the type of punishment. 
Becker advocates marital contracts that would spell out child custody and property di­
vision in the event of divorce. The divorce rate might be low­ered if men and women treated 
Environment 

page 6 Wednesday, October 14, 1992 
World leads way; Bush drags feet 
BY DOMINIC MANZO 
This summer, representatives and heads of 
state from many nations around the globe 
met in Rio de Janeiro to debate and sign 
precedent setting treaties on the environment 
at the United Nations Conference on 
Environment and Development. 
The Convention on Climate Change (CCC), 
Agenda 21, The Biodiversity Convention 
(BDC), and The Forest Preservation Treaty 
(FPT) were the major developments of the 
Rio summit but President Bush only signed 
weakened versions of the first two and 
balked at the prospect of signing the latter 
two. Initially there was hope for the summit 
and the treaties, but apparently parochial, 
sophomoric approaches to the global envi­
ronment, like Bush's, still dominate U.S. lead­
ership and clearly leave us isolated in the 
world community. 
The major international accord that was reached at the conference was Agenda 21, which calls for "integrated activities to reduce waste, improve energy efficiency, and promote sustainable economic development." Unfortunately the U,S. tarnished this treaty by demanding the removal of all promises of financial aid. This recognition of the impor­tance of, and the promise of action for, the environment was the primary achievement at this international summit despite the U.S.'s efforts. 
The CCC, which the U.S. did sign, was origi­nally aimed at limiting the threat of global warming by putting restrictions and limits on emissions of 'greenhouse gases,' but the U.S. refused to commit to specific targets and timetables. Bush claims that U.S. cutbacks will have no effect because of the predicted increase from developing nations, and the 
U.S. should help these nations so that they will never reach the current emission levels of the U.S. Bush's reasoning is preposterous and it thinly veils that, as Tim Beardsley said, "The U.S. is [not] prepared to reduce its stan­dard of living." 
The BDC, which Bush did not sign, will bind signatories to protect genetic resources harbored within indigenous plants and ani­mals. The U.S. rejected the BDC because of selfishness and greed for profits at the expense of the environment. Even though Bush did not sign the BDC, he claims that the 
U.S. efforts will far exceed the requirements of the unsigned treaty. If this feeble claim was true, then signing the treaty would have been a gesture of solidarity and good faith on behalf of the U.S. Clearly Bush is so shortsighted that he is willing to forsake the preservation of endangered species in order to save the U.S. some money. 
The FPT is not a treaty as such, but rather a beginning to the process that will lead to a concrete accord. At Rio, the importance of preserving the world's forests was stressed and perhaps a future summit will draft a treaty pertaining to such concerns. Hopefully the U.S. will be an active participant in this summit unlike the Rio summit. 
Unfortunately, the U.S. seems to be one of the few nations in the world that does not share this commitment. As Bush said, "[I will] not sign a treaty that puts too many Americans out of work. I refuse to accept that kind of criticism from ... the extremes in the environmental movement." Or as Economist Alan Blinder encouraged," We should hesitate before spending huge sums to protect ourselves from hazards that may be as much imagined as real." These attitudes exemplify the political narrow-mindedness of Bush and the U.S. delegations while demonstrating how far behind the times the 
U.S. is when these "extremes" include Europe and Japan. Hopefully the U.S. will begin to recognize the supreme importance of the environment as so many other nations already have. 
Manzo is a conscious earth dweller and a romanticist in the College ofArts and Letters. 

Football game refuse ends up in landfill 
By STEPHEN ZAVESTOSKI 
Environment Editor 
Trash clean-up following a Notre Dame football game in­cludes five groups consisting of more than 100 workers who collect more than 350 tons of refuse to be hauled to a nearby landfill by Superior Waste, a con­tracted waste hauler, according to organizers of the massive effort. 
The question has been asked, by visiting fans and members of the Notre Dame community alike, why this trash is not recycled. According to those in charge of clean-up duties in and around the stadium, most of what can be recycled is being recycled, just not through formal procedures. 
"We have 30 guys sweeping from the top of the stadium down," according to Dale Getz, athletic maintenance director in charge of clean-up inside of the stadium. In less than three hours they have swept all of the trash to the tunnels where it is collected and loaded into Superior's refuse trucks. 
"Most of what ends up going to the landfill can't be recycled," said Getz. 
Because cans and bottles are not allowed into the stadium, most of what is collected from the stadium cannot be recycled. Paper food wrappers and food itself are what make up the ma­jority of the trash inside the stadium. 
"A few years ago when food services switched to the plastic souvenir cups it drastically re­duced the amount of trash we collected," said Getz. The cups, according to Getz, are taken home by fans and students to be used in the home or dorm room. "We come across very few cups when we clean the stadium,'' he said. 
Aside from the wrappers and packaging used by the concession stands in serving food, Notre Dame Food Services recycles what it can. All of the cardboard is recovered and recycled through Food Service's comprehensive recycling pro­gram. 


'They clean up the concession stands and recycle everything they can before we even come in,'' said Getz. 
The areas outside of the stadium fall under the jurisdiction of General Ser­vices and Support Services. But even in these areas, where fans dispose of trash from tailgate parties, most of what is collected cannot be recycled. 
"Most of what we collect are paper products," according to William Thistlethwaite, director of General Services. 
But the University, although it collects the aluminum cans recycled on campus for its own profits, does not bother to collect aluminum cans or other recyclable waste left over after football games. According to Thistlethwaite, scavengers comb the fields for all of the aluminum cans before they can be recovered by the clean-up crews. 
"We tried having boxes for aluminum in the past, but as fast as people put their cans in them they were taken out by scavengers," Thistlethwaite said. 
But while most of the aluminum cans and plastic cups are being recycled or reused, glass and other paper products are neglected. 
According to Maureen Brown of Re­cycling Irish, the scope of the effort involved in recycling the trash produced at a football game is beyond the capabilities of Recycling Irish. 

"We are stretched to our limits now," she said. "We barely have enough volunteers working to collect from the dormitories. And with other campus buildings wanting to recycle, we just couldn't handle it." 
Until materials other than aluminum can be recycled for a profit, or until the cost of landfilling these materials exceeds the cost of separating and re­cycling them, any extensive recycling effort at Notre Dame on football week­ends will remain unwarranted. 
But according to Dave Young of WorldWatch institute in Washington, D.C., what we need to focus on is re­duction at the source. Young, as well as many other environmentalists, ad­vocates a change in our consumption patterns. 
"We can't keep consuming the way we do," Young said, "or in the end it will come back to haunt us." 
In the meantime, patterns of trash disposal will continue to be determined by economic restrictions; which means that, until the technology exists to efficiently recycle all of the trash produced on a Notre Dame football weekend, the majority of it will continue to end up in the landfills. 
Huddle to begin new poly recycling program 
By KATHY RUTKOWSKI 
News Writer 
Visitors to the Huddle recently have been welcomed by a sign reading "University Food Services Recycling Center -Coming Soon." 
The purpose of the recycling center, according to Dave Prentkowski, direc­tor of Food Services, is to promote the recycling of polystyrene. 
These "centers," according to Prentkowski, will consist of two large containers in the Huddle into which customers will sort their trash. There will be four different compartments in each: one for polystyrene, another for glass containers, one for newspapers, and a last which will hold the rest of the refuse. 
Prentkowski stated that "the biggest switch from the old system is the movement to recycle polystyrene." This category includes the cups, plates, and flatware that the estab­lishment uses. 
Prentkowski said that he "can't guarantee that every poly cup that a customer uses is recyclable," but that "the paper cups definitely are not." 
Cleaned polystyrene products are fully recyclable while the technology to recycle wax-coated cups does not exist. 
This concept of recycling the polystyrene products is simply the ex­pansion of the program which is al­ready in existence. All of the recy­clable products are collected locally by Superior Waste and then sold to a different source. Under the new pro­gram the polystyrene will be sold to a system in Chicago which will turn the waste into usable pellets and will sell them to various companies. 

According to Prentkowski, the pro­gram will take a while for the cus­tomers to get used to, but he is confi­dent in its success. He pointed out that it took a year for students to get used to recycling newspapers, but "now it's pretty much common na­ture." 
The containers are in the process of being built, and will be in place after Fall Break of this year. 
Gas mileage shows no improvement since 1987 
WASHINGTON (AP) -While con­sumers will see slightly more fuel ef­ficiency in 1993 cars compared with the previous year, automakers have made few improvements overall in gasoline mileage since the mid-1980s, according to government figures. 
The Environmental Protection Agency's annual fuel economy statis­tics, covering more than 1,000 vehi­cles, show that 1993 cars coming into showrooms are expected to get 28.1 
miles per gallon on average, a half percentage point higher than 1992 models. 
But that number is no higher than the mileage achieved by new cars six years ago, says the EPA. Since then, mileage has remained fairly stagnant, and in some years even dipped a per­centage point or so as automakers put more emphasis on larger cars and performance vehicles. 

The EPA's 1993 model mileage list once again -as it has for a number of years -included a dozen or so gasoline misers, led by the 1-liter engine mini-compact Geo Metro XFI, the stingiest fuel user on the road. It gets 53 mpg in city driving and 58 miles on the highway. 
Six of the 10 highest ranking 1993 cars -all in the mini-compact cate­gory -got 50 or more mpg. 

Viewpoint 

Wednesday, October 14, 1992 page 7 
The Observer 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Edltor ........•..•..•....... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ...•..•...... Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor •........... Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The Observer shouldn't Slanted calls make circus of game 
Dear Editor: in reality was a fifth down. winning touchdown, with ten
'editorialize' headlines 
We are writing on behalf of 

Farley had already taken their seconds left on the clock, on a 
the Siegfried Interhall Football 

two allowed timeouts for the controversial roll into the end­Dear Editor: managed a 41-38 score against Team in reference to Sunday second half. zone. I wish that The Observer Stanford, and political report­night's game against Farley. Nevertheless, the referees al­It was obvious that Farley'swould please try to refrain from ing, some would venture to say, Siegfried lost the game 12-7 
lowed then to take a third. A victory was a direct result of the editorializing in their headlines. should be held to the same level after an unbelievable series of 
Siegfried coach protested to the unfair officiation. We do notIn an arena where differences of journalistic integrity as blatantly slanted calls by the extra time-out. The defense hold a grudge against Farley'sof several percentage points sports reporting. 
RecSports referees. 

lined up and play was about to players; our major complaint isfrequently determine the choice 
We do not feel that we are 

resume when, after a long de­against paid referees, who ob­
of whatever elected official, a Ben Schwartz 
being sore losers, but the out­

lay, a referee threw a flag. viously have little care for the41 to 38 percent margin for Bill Sarin Hall 
come of the game was deter­

After being asked by a fellow integrity of the game as itClinton in The Observer's latest Oct. 7, 1992 
mined not by the players and

poll must certainly be classified referee what it was for, he re­should be played. 
their abilities but instead by the 

as a lead. sponded "I have something on Any of these calls in singular­
referees.

Editor's note: The margin of the other coach. What do you ity would not merit this re­I doubt that any responsible error in the poll was 5 percent, It may be easy to write off want to call it?" sponse, but the accumulation of journalist would have an­girls interhall football as unim­
causing ambiguity in determin­After discussing it, it was de­them in the last two minutes of 
nounced a tie on Monday ing a clear-cut winner with portant and insignificant, but to cided that the Siegfried coach's the game is too blatant to gomorning had Notre Dame only a 3 percent difference. the girls who spend hours 
protest, which was not vulgar uncontested. 
practicing and playing it is any­

or out-of-line, was unsports­We realize that the game'sthing but unimportant. 
manlike conduct. Siegfried was outcome will probably not be 
We simply ask to have impar­

Clinton's record exemplifies penalized half the distance to reversed, but we are compelled
tial, informed referees who take 

the goal line and Farley was to alert the rest of the campus
their duties seriously. Anyone 

awarded a first down. that RecSports, by using such
concern for mothers,children 
who watched what transpired 

It should be noted that the referees, is defeating its own 
on Sunday night would have 

Farley coach was being just as purpose of quality, non-varsity Dear Editor: the nation. laughed at the ludicrousness of vocal as our coach, as well as athletics. Our team feels like it 
the calls and penalties. 

being verbally abusive to the came home from a circus in­
Arriving at Notre Dame, a His record as Governor of The controversy started in the Siegfried sideline. Perhaps this stead of a football game. 
Liberal Arts University, I was Arkansas exemplifies his con­second half when Siegfried was went unnoticed by the refereesexpecting to see diversity and cern for mothers and their 
ahead 7-6 with two minutes 
because of their close connec­

open-mindedness towards is­children. He has revived the Katie Wiltrout 
left. It was third down, Farley 
tions with one of the Farley

sues. However, I was surprised public education system in Rachel Mitchell
had possession. A Siegfried 
coaches.

to see how conservative and Arkansas and has put his state Siegfried Slammer 
player intercepted a pass and 
This seems to be a conflict ofignorant many of the students third, after Oklahoma and 

Football Team
ran for a 30 yard gain before 
interest. After this comical of­are in their thinking. Kansas, in the organization and Oct. 7,1992her flag was pulled.

improvement of state economy. ficiation, Farley scored the 
Because of offsetting penal­

I was offended at the letter 
stating that Governor Bill Clin­Clearly, Governor Clinton has ties, the referees decided the ton cares nothing for mothers been, and is currently, working down would be replayed. At and their children. His ap­for the benefit of the nation's this point, the person holding pearance here at Notre Dame families. Knowing this is just the down-marker was told was a definite reinforcement of another reason to vote for Gov­twice by the referee to change his concern and care for the ernor Clinton to be the next 
the marker back to the second nation's youth. president of the United States. 
down, drawing much protest 
• from the Siegfried sidelines . 

Taking the opportunity to After two more plays, and
speak to Notre Dame students, Michelle Di Re 
what should have been a

Clinton showed our generation Pangborn Hall change of possession, Farleythat he is working for a change Oct. 1, 1992 


that will benefit the children of 
DOONESBURY 
MY816(JTRY'! THAT'S CRAZY! 
M/NNI/J MOUse COUSLAUJ/ 
BON~/ PI<£6S MYlll NO. 
~ 1,173/ 
called a time-out, before what 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
THEN tAifY/JI/J YDU 7RY 7lJ /(/J/iP YOURYII./6Hlll< FROM 

'Politics are usually the 
/;1A,T?RY/N6 A JE!tU, RtRJRTEi?­t.Y S4W~ "YOUN/!lil? 7rJHAV!3 

executive expression of human 
YOUR (){fti?RfiN /./X¥< UK& YaJ"'! I MffAN, I RNI? 
immaturity.' 
7HAlfiV(.J'i&iVIDI<-V.' 
\ 
Vera Brittain 

Express some maturity, submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint

page 8 Monday, October 14, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Alumna disturbed by student senate resolution 

special relationship with NBC. I 
ideas, no matter how con­
think it's incumbent on NBC to troversial those ideas might be. 
apologize." 
While students at Notre Dame
In addition, the article re­
have every right to be angered
ported the view of many 
by O'Connor's actions, NBCCatholics that O'Connor be 
owes no one an apology for let­
banned from any future NBC 
ting her exercise her freedom of appearances. 
speech.
As a recent Notre Dame 
I have no idea why O'Connorgraduate, I was extremely dis­chose to criticize the Pope. 
turbed by this article. 
Perhaps O'Connor, herself aOf all the freedoms contained victim of child abuse, is in­in the Bill of Rights to the Con­censed over recent reports al­stitution, perhaps the most im­leging the Catholic Church hasportant is the First Amendment, repeatedly covered up incidents guaranteeing people the right of child abuse and sexual mis­to express themselves as they conduct by priests.
choose. And nowhere should 
Or perhaps, as an avowed
the First Amendment be more feminist, she disagrees with the cherished than at a university, a 
continued refusal of thetraditional forum for the 
Catholic Church to allow ca-exchange of information and 
President Bush will put children, families first 
President Bush has dedicated himself to keeping taxes low so 
Dear Editor: 
As a Catholic student at Saint that we can afford to live with­
Mary's College I was offended by Bill Clinton's recent speech out government aid. lie has 
proposed a $500 increase in
at Notre Dame in which he al­leged he would strengthen the the per child tax exemption. 
family. Ile has stressed educational He recited the watchword of choice so that parents may 
the United States Catholic Bish­send their children to their fa­ops' November 1991 pastoral vorite public, private or letter, "Putting Children and parochial school. 
Families First." Clinton, how­Ile has initiated housing pro­ever, would not further the let­grams allowing public housing ter's substance.· The bishops residents to purchase their 
condemned welfare programs homes and manage their prop­promoting dependance. erties. Regardless of his rhetoric, And he opposes "value-free" 
Clinton depends on the support sex education in our schools, in of special interests who owe which children arc taught no their existence to a steady flow moral differences separate 
of government money. various sexual practices and all The more the poor depend on "safe" sex is OK. government largesse the 
greater the damage to the fam­Bill Clinton may like the title of the bishops' letter, but it is
ily. 
The bishops noted that gov­President Bush who is literally ernment dependency fosters a "Putting Children and Families loss of self-esteem and self-re­
First." liance. It splinters a family­based society by devaluing re­Katherine Walsh spect for one's community and LeMans Hall Oct. 6, 1992
individual effort. 


censorship is on the rise in
pable women to become priests "special." It is the same rela­America, I am saddened thatsolely on the basis of their gen­tionship NBC has with every students at Notre Dame wouldder. other show it broadcasts -Notre contribute to this atmosphere. 
The point is, her reasons do Dame allows NBC to televise its If you don't like what Sine ad not matter. The First Amend­games, and NBC pays Notre O'Connor and NBC have to say,ment gives O'Connor the right Dame a handsome sum of change the channel. But pleaseto speak out against the Pope, money. 
don't fry and limit the right ofthe Catholic Church or even To suggest that NBC owes O'Connor or others to speak as(heaven forbid) the University of Notre Dame anything, after they choose. 
Notre Dame if she chooses. paying them approximately $35 I was also amused by the million dollars, is ludicrous. 
Surely you have more impor­suggestion that NBC owes all Notre Dame has been more tant things to do. If not, I might Catholics an apology by virtue than adequately compensated suggest reading a banned book.
of the fact that it televises Notre for this deal. 

Salman Rushdie's "The SatanicDame football games. Furthermore, a Notre Dame Verses" comes to mind.
NBC stands for the National football game is a sports pro­Broadcasting Company, not the gram, not a religious broadcast. 
Pam Smith
Notre Dame Broadcasting That's why the games air on 
ND '89
Company. Saturday afternoons, not 
ND Law '92 
The relationship between Sunday mornings. (Although 
Hermosa Beach, CA 
NBC and Notre Dame is not perhaps NBC could advertise 
Oct. 8, 1992 
Abortion restrictions hurt women 
Dear Editor: to raise a child. subjected to "winging it" when 
In the Oct. 5 edition of The Adoption is not always a solu­she knows that she cannot af­Observer, Theresa Aleman tion. Although we see adver­ford to do it right. quoted Claire Johnson, a mem­tisements from seemingly well­Having a child restricts one ber of the Notre Dame Right to prepared potential adoptive professionally. One's ability to Life organization, as saying that parents in The Observer daily, work long hours, to travel, and "4,400 babies (are) killed this opportunity is not offered to accept distant assignments daily ... " to women living hand-to-mouth are all greatly restricted when 
Assuming that Johnson meant in the run-down inner-city she is responsible for the life of that 4,400 fetuses are aborted neighborhoods who were acci­a child. daily, can you imagine 4,400 dentally impregnated. Neither As women of unplanned unwanted children born daily? are these opportunities for pregnancies and unwanted 
Legislation restricting elective adoption available to drug ad­children are forced to endure abortions oppresses women dicts. all facets of the ordeal, the man socially, economically, and pro­Are we supposed to force who are at least as responsible fessionally. these women to carry their for the pregnancy may escape 
Restricting abortions will unplanned pregnancies to term all responsibility by just walk­create a society where men are and to raise unwanted chil­ing away. free to walk away from un­dren? Consider the conse­One cannot tell that he is a planned pregnancies, but quences of child abandonment party to an unplanned preg­women are imprisoned by the and abuse. nancy by looking at him. He is social stigma, financial bur­Socially, the unwed woman not bound to raise an unwanted dens, and professional restric­with an unwanted pregnancy child financially, and his pro­tions of an unplanned preg­endures unjust prejudices fessional endeavors are not re­nancy, and of an unwanted against her moral character. stricted by responsibilities to an child. The married woman with an unwanted child. 
Not everyone faced with an unwanted pregnancy is sub­Women have as much right to unplanned pregnancy fits the jected to unwelcome congratu­social, economic, and pro­image portrayed by the Arthur lations and probably to feigned fessional freedom as men. 
D. Moss Foundation anti-abor­cheerfulness. Can you imagine To restrict women's rights to tion commercials plaguing the trying to convince acquain­elective abortions will bar television airwaves with happy, tances that you and your women from ever reaching so­healthy toddlers in private spouse really do uot want to cial, economic, or professional school uniforms. have a child, while you are six­equality with men. 
Consider the results of un­months pregnant? wanted pregnancies of those Prenatal care and child rear­Betty Chang who cannot afford to carry ing are no small financial un­Off-campus through a pregnancy, much less dertakings. One should not be Oct. 6, 1992 
S.W.A.T. educates students on AIDS 
Dear Editor: students. group has encountered is the 
I am writing to address As of now we have made pre­low turnout at dorm presenta­Miguel Perez's letter (Observer, sentations in two dorms and are tions. Oct. 5) regarding the going to begin scheduling I would like to strongly urge University's role in educating its presentations in other dorms each and every student to students about HIV and AIDS. after fall break. watch for signs in your dorm 
Perez says that "The univer­We will also come and speak and come to the presentations. sity ... must attempt to educate to special interest groups or Please remember that the and protect the students" more campus organizations if there is subjects covered in these pre­than just saying "No.'' an interest. If you would like to sentations could mean the dif­
I would like Perez and every schedule a presentation or if ference between life and death. other student to realize that you have any questions regard­there is a new group on cam­ing S.W.A.T. call Ruthann He­Glenn J. Cassidy pus, named Students With AIDS berle, the group's advisor, at the S.W.A.T. Member Training (S.W.A.T.), who have Health Center (239-8662). Cavanaugh Hall begun the task of educating The biggest problem that our Oct. 8, 1992 


20 years of Coeducation 

i 1m,,¥# Ilr 
~ I I 
i%\1' "f#jf 'II! h,,m..,.,. #· .fJ. 
.......
E' -I jl Li) ' E p t~ W!!l I 

above: A banner hung from the windows of south dining hall welcomes women to Notre Dame as its first year of coeducation commenced. below right: Two Notre Dame women enjoy the comforts of their room in Farley Hall. 
By MONICA YANT 
Editor-in-Chief 
The year was 1972. Notre Dame-a one-time bastion of Catholic masculinity-became a co-educational institution. 
People had talked about it for years and signs began to show in the early 1960s. A co-ex­change program with Saint Mary's College was instituted in 1965, allowing students from both schools to sample academic offerings. 
Plans for a merger with Saint Mary's looked promising. During the 1970-71 academic year, administrators from both institutions examined the possibilities. In May of 1971, the trustees of both schools gave the merger a green light. 
But something went awry in the fall of 1971. Financial prob­lems seemed to hamper the merger, and the question of whether to institute a unified budget plagued members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Inter-Institutional Team. 
The logistics of the merger were also an issue, as adminis­trators had trouble deciding which programs would be housed on which campus. 
An official announcement terminating unification plans came Nov. 30, 1971. Officials from both schools cited financial and administrative problems as the chief obstacles to the merger. 
The immediate reaction on both campuses was shock and anger. A group of 1,300 stu­dents, many from Saint Mary's, boycotted classes. Demonstra­tors from both schools worked to pressure the schools into changing their minds. 
But the decision to halt the merger did not squelch Notre Dame's interest in bringing women to campus, it merely changed the way they would be admitted. 
Included in the termination statement was the University's decision to admit women in the fall of 1972. Officials said the move would make Notre Dame "more humanized" because "an all male institution is totally un­realistic." 
Notre Dame enrolled 365 fe­males that year, 125 of them freshmen. Of the 365, 211 were transfers from Saint Mary's. 
The presence of women at an historically all-male school brought immediate change to Notre Dame, both structurally and emotionally. 
Walsh and Badin Halls were converted into women's resi­dence halls at a cost of almost $150,000. Washing machines and dryers were installed. An ironing room was designated. 
Full-length mirrors were placed in each of the newly­painted pastel rooms. Female security guards were hired and card-lock systems were imple­mented to protect the new stu­dents. 
In the bookstore, feminine items were stocked for the first time. Even the infirmary was renovated to accommodate the new students, although requests to hire a gynecologist were denied. 
Women at Notre Dame experienced more than a cultural shock. Their arrival coincided with the growth of the women's movement. Female students pressed for greater concern for women's issues and the need for equality among the sexes. 
The integration process went relatively smoothly. By 1975, the undergraduate student body had a ratio of four men to every woman, up from 17:1 in 1972. In 1976, the first 125 women undergraduates received diplo­mas from Notre Dame. 
Gradually, more residence halls were designated for women and a greater presence
of women in academic and social settings was thought to have improved relations. 
But the status of women at the University was still being examined in a critical light as the 1980s approached. 
An April 1982 special anniversary section in The Observer, "Women at Notre Dame," looked into the progress made by co-education over 10 years. 
Complaints that lack of social space inhibited relations be­tween the sexes were prevalent, as were comments that students at Notre Dame were still unsure of how to interact. 
Women were uncomfortable with the idea of asking men on dates, while male students fought to. understand the concept of male-female friendships. 
Segregation in the dining halls, at popular bars and in classrooms was still a norm, further stifling relations. 
Even in 1982, with an under­graduate population of almost 2,000 women, both sexes still suffered from tension, and often resentment. 
"Before women were admit­ted, Notre Dame was known as a male bastion. Now, with women getting into the spotlight, competing in all areas, the men feel they have to be more macho," said Father John Van Wolvlear, then vice­president for Student Affairs. 
Female students at Notre Dame struggled to break the mold and fight stereotypes. Be­yond the problems on their own campus, the female minority continued to suffer from strained relations with women at Saint Mary's. 
"It strikes me that there's this 'woman against woman' thing. It's about damn time we started 
1
1 
·. ''· 
N 

pulling together," said 1982 
Saint Mary's Student Body 
President Eileen Murphy. 

Notre Dame females agreed. 
"People characterize the typical 
'SMC chick' based on a minority 
and assume it fits all Saint 
Mary's students. And this in 

stereotypes continue," said one student. 
This story originally appeared in an Observer Sesquicentennial special section March 20, 1992. 
Editor's note: This special section commemorates this year's 20th anniversary of co-education at Notre Dame. Because of Notre Dame'$. Sesquicentennial, the University will not officially commemorate t~ anniversary of co-education, but will instead celebrate i~s .~5th anniversary, according to Dennis Moore, direi;tor ojj:JuQ.lic Relations and Information. In upcoming months, The. Qbserver's A<.:"cent department will examine various issues relati(lg to~ co-education. The editors extend special thanks to Charles Lamb and Jennifer Webber in University Archives. without whose· help this section could not have been produced. All photos compliments ofUniversity Archives. 
Section Staff: 

Jahnell · 'gan Jeanne Blasi 
Monica Yf Marguerite Schropp 
turn fuels the fire so the 


20 years of CJ 
Behind the 


A Notre Dame woman takes class notes. Students participate in a humanities s~m· Seminars were one way for students of 
Saint Mary's merger fails, 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Tell a Saint Mary's first year student she came to the College for the benefits of Notre Dame and you're likely to get a dirty look. 
Twenty years ago you might have been right on target. 
Students enrolling at Saint Mary's for the fall of 1972 were promised a joint degree between the then all-male University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. 
"The national trend at the time was in favor of co-edu­cation, and we got kind of caught up in it," said Sister Basil Anthony O'Flynn, vice­president of Fiscal Affairs in 1971. 
But while some institutions like Yale, Dartmouth, and Princeton may have succeeded in co-education, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's did not. 
What went wrong in the re­identification of the school as Saint Mary's College within the University of Notre Dame in­volved time, money, and plan­ning. There was deficiency in. all three. 
Plans for co-education began in March, 1970, when trustees from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame decided that a merger would simply be an expansion of the existing class co­exchange program between the two schools, according to "A Panorama," a book tracing the history of Saint Mary's by the College's Sister Immaculate Creek. 
The Executive Committee of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's hired objective academic consultants Lewis Mayhew and Rosemary Park to construct an ideal model·of a merger. The study began in the fall of 1970 
and  was  met  with  some  
apprehension  from  Saint  
Mary's.  

As the College community feared losing its traditional 

identity, faculty groups proposed co-education plans balancing Saint Mary's independence and merger with Notre Dame, according to "A Panorama." 
Ten months later, the Park­Mayhew report was complete and in agreement with faculty groups. Park-Mayhew offered a comprehensive plan including board action, faculty, degrees, student life, and cooperation. 
In spite of the plan's caution against "precipitous action," Notre Dame wished to merge immediately, causing Saint Mary's anxiety to surface again. 
The two executive commit­tees met again on March 21, 1971, where they agreed on a merger between the schools. 
The Joint Statement on Unifi­cation was signed by both parties on May 14, 1971. 
But no sooner had the decision been made when problems surfaced. The committee agreed that the "new identity" of the unification inevitably meant loss of identity for Saint Mary's as the College would be obsolete under the Dome except in name. 
The public promises for co-ed­ucation soon went bad. 
Unanticipated financial and administrative hurdles proved too high to clear. The pressure of meeting deadlines, such as second-semester planning and faculty contract renewals, increased the chances for a failed merger. 
After a series of meetings, the Boards of Trustees and Administrative Officers of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's decided that "the two schools were unable to solve financial and administrative problems connected with the proposed unification," according to a press release issued on Nov. 30, 1971. 
The release promised contin­ued 'cooperation between the schools in academic, social, cul­tural and spiritual areas while 
A group of Notre Dame women Badin was one of the first men's 
remaining separate. Also, Notre Dame said it would admit women the next fall, while preserving the six-year-old coexchange program with Saint Mary's. 
"The two institutions still rec­ognize unification as a goal to be desired and hopefully to be achieved in the future," the press release said. 
Some were pleased with the Trustees' decision. 
"I felt there was a very real place for a small women's col­lege in the American educational scheme," said Tony Black, chairman of Faculty 
page 3 

scenes.. • • 
Saint Mary's student body presi­dent, Kathy Barlow, and Na­tional Public Radio did a 10 minute documentary on the sit­uation. 
Not all responses to the Trustees were demanding, how­ever. Some students even pro­posed alternative solutions. 
The Hall Presidents' Council suggested waiting for Saint Mary's to have a change of heart. A coordinator would be appointed to organize co-ed housing on both campuses as well as medical services, security departments, placement bureaus, admission offices, public relations, and development departments to name a few. 
In spite of the sentiments in favor of co-education, termina­tion of the merger was made of­ficial on February 28, 1972. 
"Morale was terrible," Mandell said of the Saint Mary's community. "There was a deflated image of Saint Mary's students and their abilities. They tended to think of themselves as second class citizens," she said. 
A lack of credibility in the ad­ministration caused a complete turnover and the 1972-73 classes were led by a new presi­dent and dean, according to Mandell. The administration of President Jack Dugan brought changes in the Saint Mary's cur­riculum, reestablishment of the nursing program, and financial solvency. 
"We did not fall apart," Man­dell said. "Saint Mary's got stable about three years later." 
Twenty years after the merger fell through, O'Flynn still feels that Saint Mary's made the cor­rect decision in remaining inde­pendent. "The whole world is turning to women for leader­ship-we have a gorgeous op­portunity to provide that," she said. "I think if you have a prod­uct that's been a success for 150 years, you really have something to sell." 

Women confront challenges of ND 
By JAHNELLE HARRIGAN 
Accent Editor 

The spotlight was on them when they came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1972. But while many transitions to co-education were smooth, the first women to attend the University sometimes faced opposition. 
"~eople tended to look at us as oddities. Some people were not thnlled that we had destroyed this male bastion of knowledge " said Patricia Willing, a 1976 Notre Dame graduate and memb~r of the first freshman class to include women. 
With Badin and Walsh Halls-----------­renovated for women, entire dorms of men were forced to move-and many were not 'People tended to look pleased, according to Willing. 
at us as oddities. 
Sterotypes of the "typical" 

Notre Dame or Saint Mary's Some people were not woman were common among b~~h mal~ and female students. thrilled that we had 
Sometimes you had to deal with attitudes that you were destroyed this male 
only out to get your 'Mrs.' de­gree," said 1.?76 graduate Re-bastion Of knowledge ,
becca Code.  There were some  ·  
who felt that Saint Mary's stu­dents came from wealthier  - p t · · a riCia  W"ll"I 1ng,  
families and dressed better, and that Notre Dame women  1976 NO  graduate  
were more studious and aca­ 
demic."  

Willing agreed. "We had stereotypes about Saint Mary's women-that they were more 'dressed to kill' and were only looking for husbands." 
Stereotypes were held by non-students, as well. One professor told a class that the only reason parents would send their daughters to Notre Dame was to find a good husband, according to Willing. 
Women also faced opposition in social situations. 
Willing remembers the first time she and a friend entered North Dining Hall for dinner. "There was dead silence," she said of the men's surprise at seeing the women. 
"Part of the problem might be that so many people came from single.-sex h~gh schools and they weren't used to having the oppostte sex m classes and other situations," Willing said. 
A parietals system kept men and women even more separate, and dating difficulties resulted. 
"There were always complaints that the interaction (between men and women) wasn't very good," said Willing. "We once figured out that each woman at Notre Dame could have 42 dates 
each weekend because of the ratio (of men to women)." 
'I didn't feel intimidated But in many cases, this did not occur. "I think that a lot of people 
by going to a male 

felt that guys wouldn't ask girls out because they thought 
chool-1 was more 

that they already had dates. And then the girls would just
intimidated by Emil T. 

sit at home. That was one misconception," said Code. 
Hoffman's chemistry 

While social situations and stereotypes sometimes caused
uizzes.' 

problems, the first Notre Dame women were strong in aca­-Rebecca Code, demic life. 
1976 NO graduate "There weren't any women 
that had difficulty with the 
academics-Notre Dame made 
sure they were getting the 
cream of the crop," said Will­
ing. But it wasn't always easy. Men and women were not consistently seen as equals. 
"I had one teacher who used to say how much higher the women's score was than men's. That made things a little uncomfortable," said Willing. 
And even when they were seen as equals, women faced challenges. 
Willing was the only woman in her lifesaving class for physical education, and she felt she was unfairly treated as "one of the guys." "I had to pull a 180 pound man out of the water-it was really difficult," she said. 
But beyond the many challenges, some had few problems moving into a previously all-male university. 
"I didn't feel intimidated by going to a male school," said Code. 
"_I was more intimidated by Emil T. Hoffman's chemistry qmzzes. I never really got the impression that I shouldn't be there-the guys I hung out with were very accepting." 
conducted by Professor Paul Rathburn in one of the earliest co-educational classes in the mid-1970s. sexes to adjust to the changes at the University. 
leaving NO to go it alone 
ize together in Badin hall in 1975. itories to be renovated for women. 
Assembly in 1972. 
uwe were all in favor of the merger because we were look­ing at getting Notre Dame de­grees and the prestige of a large university," said Missy Under­man Noyes, Saint Mary's 1972 student body president. "We were forging ahead full-steam with plans, never dreaming it wasn't going to happen." Noyes, who now sells real estate in Philadelphia, had been on a committee to change the hand­books and bylaws to accommo­date the changes. 
But many faculty and students 
protested the discontinued merger. 
Saint Mary's English professor Elizabeth Noel was dissatisfied with the decision, but she emphasized that there was no single prevailing attitude among faculty. "It seemed to me that if Notre Dame went co-ed, which it undoubtedly would, that Saint Mary's would suffer. And it did. They creamed the top off our student body." 
''I'm not sure that Saint Mary's has ever regained the kind of status that we had before the merger," she said. 
Saint Mary's student reaction included petitions demanding both schools to continue merger negotiations in 1972 and for equal student representation on trustees' decision-making committees, according to a South Bend Tribune article on Dec. 10, 1971. 
Legal action was taken. An at­torney was hired by Saint Mary's Student Government for misrepresentation in Saint Mary's brochures sent out to freshmen promising "students at the university, meeting the same requirements, having the same classes, and earning the same degrees." 
Students boycotted classes and an assembly was held in O'Laughlin Auditorium on Dec. 1, 1971, to allow the Board of Trustees and administration to appear before the firing squad of angry students. 
"I remember being unable to take a couple of finals because we were so embroiled in the protests. It was really very emo­tional," said Noyes, recalling subsequent demonstrations. 
Other reactions included with­holding the spring tuition/room and board payment of $1,720, letters to parents, alumnae, trustees, registering for Notre Dame classes only, and request­ing transcripts to transfer. 
The event even captured na­tional media attention. NBC and CBS news interviewed 1971 
-
20 years of Coeducation

page 4 Wednesday, October 14, 1992 
Irish sports revolutionized 
Notre Dame women excel in athletics after aslow start 

A women's interhall football team poses for a team photo. With co-education came the slow, but steady development of women's athletics at the University. 
By JONATHAN JENSEN modest beginnings. Sports Writer "When I came along in 1978, there were no scholarships 
With the arrival of women at available for women in any Notre Dame in 1972 came the program," recalls Conboy. arrival of a new realm of Irish But the programs continued athletics, one that just 20 years to grow. Women's basketball later boasts national rankings, had 12 scholarships by 1980 post-season berths and envy and gained North Star Confer­among competitors. ence affiliation in 1983. "Before 
"It's been a long and arduous we had a conference affiliation process," noted Notre Dame everybody liked to schedule Assistant Athletic Director Notre Dame, everybody like to Brian Boulac. "To say you're beat Notre Dame, and back 
going to become a national then we weren't particularly power overnight, that just difficult to beat," Conboy said. doesn't happen. A lot of things Just four years later, in 1987, have to fall your way." came a man who's contribution 
And they have, since the first to women's athletics can't be ig­women's athletic organization nored: Athletic Director Dick -a fencing club of Saint Mary's Rosenthal. 
students and ND faculty He has been instrumental in 
daughters-began in 1970. the rise of Olympic sports at 
The club was organized by Notre Dame, adding 24 full Mike DeCicco, now in his 32nd men's scholarships and a stag­year coaching fencing at Notre gering 43 new athletic scholar­Dame. DeCicco was later ap­ships for women. proached by then Executive Rosenthal used interest sur­Vice President Father Edmund veys to determine which 

Ffield hockey became of the first women's vasity sports at Notre Dame in 1974.
Joyce about expanding the op­women's sports were in demand portunities for females in ath­on campus. The strategy paid 

softball team that could play that was 9-27 into the 25th­But observers can't help butletics. off in 1988 with the addition of with anyone in the country." ranked team in the nation. remember last year's abrupt"(Joyce) wanted to make ath­women's varsity soccer, softball, Women's cross-country and cutting of the wrestling team toletics available to (women) even and golf. 
Performance pays off swimming teams have also devote more funds to women'sbefore we had the facilities," "Creating these new sports The increases in financial aid captured conference champi­athletics -a decision thatsaid DeCicco -noting that his has been relatively easy," he available for female athletes onships since 1987. stirred emotion on campus.
current office was probably the said. "We can measure the in­has allowed Notre Dame to re­Part of this success can be The athletic departmentfirst women's locker room on terest and we can observe it cruit the highest caliber ath­traced to an aggressive recruit­maintained that the decision campus. with intramural play and the letes, leading to nationally ing philosophy that has drawn was necessitated by the Title IXJoyce nearly doubled the activity of women on campus. 

ranked teams. top athletes like senior volley­decision which requires athleticfencing program's budget, ex­We've tried to respond to the •Fencing: Women's fencing ball captain Alicia Turner to programs to promote genderpressly to outfit the new genuine and legitimate interests has been the most successful of Notre Dame -and away from equity in athletics. 
women's fencers. "He was ea­of the student body." 

the women's sports at Notre perennial powerhouses like Notre Dame brought its foot­ger to make sure that women Dame, finishing in the top three usc. ball team into the equation in 
were not second-class citizens, Starting from scratch in the nation six times, "I was first attracted mainly 1988, although the program 
-they were given top equipment. For Notre Dame, a major including a national champi­by the university -it was the has a staggering 92 scholar­He didn't care how much it challenge was starting the onship in 1987. 
campus that really did it for ships. But the success of the 
cost, he wanted it to get done," women's athletic programs The program has also pro­me," Turner said. "But as the Irish football program meansDeCicco said. from scratch;...------------duced arguably programs improve, it's going to stepping up the commitment to
By 1974 Notre Dame made "We ha 

the greatest be a lot easier to attract the top women's sports, which thusfencing the first women's var­m i n i m a l'(Joyce) wanted to female athlete athletes." puts other men's sports -like
sity sport. Field hockey would scholarship aid . in Notre Dame wrestling -at risk for funding

follow. in the begin-make athletiCS history, Molly A Rocky Road cuts."That [fencing and field 
ning," notedavailable to (women) sullivan 0 But Notre Dame's success has Women now number 39 per­
hockey] was the advent of Boulac, who Sullivan won 

not come without controversy. cent of the Notre Dame studentwomen's athletics," said Boulac, won 1988-89even before we had two individual Some say that increased body, and the rise of women's 
who was an assistant football MCC Coach-of-. . . , n a t i o n a I spending on the women's ath­athletics at a once all-malecoach at the time. "It was non­the-Year honorsthe faCilitieS. championships letic programs has come at the institution is a story in itself. 

scholarship activities based on fDoarme's Nfoi.trrset -Mike De Cicco ~nd competed expense of the men's programs. "The way in which they'veinterest. From there we started 

m the 1988 and It's not a new feeling, according taken off has absolutely amazed to make some inroads." season of 1992 Olympic to Conboy, who said the us. These programs have all
Basketball, tennis, and vol­women's softball games. 

sentiment followed her during just taken their place alongleyball were soon introduced, and who has •Basketball: an undergraduate career which with all of the other great tradi­and the women's athletic pro­had three Since Rosenthal saw 12 scholarships awarded to tions we have had here for a 
gram became a small, but spir­daughters earn hired Muffet the women's basketball team. number of years," he added. 

ited, addition to the Notre Dame monograms at-------------:McGraw to "There was some negative But Rosenthal makes certain 

campus. Notre Dame. guide the women's basketball backlash in that a lot of people to give credit where it is due. Women's softball won two-program in 1987-88, the team perceived that the hockey pro­"I think the main complimentGetting there straight MCC titles as Rosenthal has won four conference 
gram was cut at that point in has to go to the kids them­
It was this spirit that in 1978 increased the program's schol-championships-and landed in 

order to make way [for selves. They put in the disci­drew an intelligent and athletic arships and recruiting budgets. its first appearance in the NCAA women's sports,]" she said. pline, they commit the effort18-year-old basketball player "All the credit has to go to the tournament a year ago. 
The times have changed, at and time, and they're the peo­
from Buffalo to Notre Dame. girls because without their •Soccer: Under the direction least for Conboy and her col­ple who have made the pro­
Today she is the highest rank­work ethic and ability it would of coach Chris Petrucelli since leagues in the athletic depart­gram work." 
ing woman in the Athletic De­not have grown as quickly as it 1990, women's soccer is na­ment. "The way we've ap­"It's been fun to watch," he
partment, Associate Athletic Di­did," said Boulac, who has since tionally ranked in just its fifth 

proached it in recent years is added. "We've been thrilled
rector Missy Conboy. handed coaching duties to Liz year of existence. 

we'll try hard to make sure that with their victories, we've criedConboy captained the Irish in Miller. •Volleyball: Debbie Brown we increase revenue so that we at their defeats, but we've been
her senior season, leading the "I think the (financial) aid to-took over as coach of the have enough to pay for growing laughing a lot more than we've team to a 17-6 record in their day is much greater that it was women's volleyball program men's programs and growing been crying, and that's kind of

fifth year of competition. She when we started, and we have last year and has turned a team women's programs." nice."remembers well Notre Dame's a good group of kids on the 
Accent 

Wednesday, October 14, 1992 page 9 

Award winning 'Lend Me a Tenor' showcased at Saint Mary's College 
William Rosemann 
Sucking the Marrow of Life 
A quest for truth down Sesame Street 

rnie is dead," she said, "Sesame Street wanted to teach kids about death, so they gave him leukemia. But I didn't see it ­
it's only a rumor." 

My senior year began not with happy reunions, but with the revelation of this dire uncertainty, which hung from my neck like a rotting albatross. 
Why Ernie? Why not wipe out a herd of Fraggles? They're· disposable. But Ernie ­Ernie was my best buddy -Ernie is innocence -his scratchy giggle is the sound of childhood. 
I spent the next week wailing in my shadowed room, tortured by the knowledge that an insidious blow had been dealt by the Dark Side. My sleepless nights were haunted by visions of "Sesame Street: The Death of Ernie ­Hell is Upon Us." 
Bert would be devastated, an emotional vegetable. No more "Hey Bert!" No more "Bert, are you awake?" No more scattered toys. No more "Ernie 'n Bert," just '"n Bert." He'd quit his job (what the hell did he do? who paid the bills?) and wander around an empty apartment like one of those old men with 87 cats, except they'd be pigeons. 
Rubber Ducky would float alone in the tub, wondering where Ernie was, waiting for: "Rubber Ducky, you're the one -you make bath time so much fun." He would never hear it again. 
The muppet in the overcoat (who used to whisper to Ernie: "Pssst -wanna buy an S?") wouldn't have any one to sell his letters to. He'd end up pushing vials of crack to Grover. 
Imagine this scene of horror: "Hi-ho, Kermit the Frog here at a very sad occasion ­the funeral of Ernie." All the muppets are wearing black, gathered around Ernie's grave (right next to Mr. Hooper's). Bert, his tuft of hair pressed flat by the drizzle, tosses a black rose onto the tiny coffin. The Count wails "One! One dead Ernie!" Cookie Monster, in an attempt to drown his grief, binges on raw cookie dough. The eternally confused Big Bird asks, "Why's Ernie in that box?" Mired in despair, Snuffleupagus clutches a bottle of malt liquor. Oscar the Grouch refuses to come out of his garbage can, but all can hear the sobbing within. Grover, strung out on crack, attempts to pick pocket those in attendance. 
This evil rumor, the source of my nightmares, had to be dispelled. I called WNIT, the local public station, and voiced my fears. A nervous voice mumbled "I can't confirm that rumor." In the background I heard the sounds of paper shredding, harsh whispering, and pill popping. I smelled a conspiracy. 
Cleaving through their web of evil, I screamed "The truth you den of vipers -the truth!" Someone whispered "It's hitting the fan -is Electric Company hiring?" With a trembling hand I dialed the all-hallowed Chil­dren's Television Workshop. 
"Do you realize you've upset the cosmic balance and sent us all spiraling into chaos?!" I shouted into the receiver. 
"Fear not-Ernie is immortal," cooed a soothing voice, "It's just a rumor that's spread nationwide." 
"You mean just like that one about Mikey, of Life Cereal fame? You know -that he died when he ate a whole pack of Pop Rocks and a two liter of Coke-and his stomach exploded?" 
"Yes," the voice replied, "and don't believe all that Brady Bunch smut. There was only platonic love under Mike and Carol's roof." 
My world order restored, I ran out into the sunny quad, hugged a bewildered squirrel, and asked him, "Can you tell me how to get -how to get to Sesame Street?'' 
William Rose mann is an Accent columnist for the Observer. His columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 
Into the deep 
Scuba lessons offered to students in St. Joe's Lake 
By JIM VOGL 
Accent Writer 
S cuba diving in South Bend? Sounds about as appropriate as ice fishing in the Bahamas. Notre Dame's RecSports makes this tropical paradise pursuit available to students amid the confines of the Midwest's hum-drum locale. The seven-week program, conducted by the YMCA and held at the Rockne Memorial, runs two to three times every school year. The $115 cost includes books, equipment and instructions from a field of experts. After being confined to the Rockne's classroom and chlorinated, olympic-sized pool, students get the opportunity to explore the campus' micro-biological aquarium, St. Joseph's Lake. The current scuba class will undergo four open water dives there between Oct. 31 and Nov. 1 before becoming lifetime certified divers. Picture yourself plunging into the mysterious, murky mish-mosh on a brisk late-autumn morning. Like some sort of deranged dream, you'd explore the depths of this body of water which, although located amid a busy campus, rarely has visitors venture beyond its shores save a few sailboats, ducks, and bluegill. Diane Tiser, owner of J.R. Aquatic Center, 51333 US 31 N., South Bend, has supervised the program at Notre Dame for six years. She explained how her students react when confronted with the challenge of jumping into the lake armed with up to 50 pounds of equipment strapped to their backs. "They're hesitant at first until they get in, but once they get out they're really exuberant. They love it." 
And who knows just what they'll find in the largely unchartered waters. "We've found stuff in the past: bikes, CB radios, shoes, bottles, rudders, mostly just a bunch of junk," recalls Tiser. "But one man's junk is another man's treasure. Finding something lost at the bottom of a lake is always interesting." 
In years past, Tiser held the open water dives at Diamond Lake, a resort area in Michigan, about 30 minutes from campus. However, in dealing with students' tight schedules and lack of reliable transportation, she opted for on-campus dives and the promise: "You get to find out what's at the bottom of St. Joe Lake!" 
Tiser also conducts classes at Andrews College in Barrien Springs, Southwestern Michigan College, Culver Military Academy, Niles, Michigan City, and local YMCA's, totaling from 450 to 550 students per year. 
"People who learn in the Mid­west make better divers. They learn to handle the cold water and low visibility," explained Tiser. 
Still, the vast majority of Tiser's students learn scuba skills for use in more exotic locations. 
"Especially at Notre Dame, we get a lot of people from foreign countries-Puerto Rico, Japan, Mexico, France, Spain, Germany, Russia-where they have the opportunity to dive but they don't know how," said Tiser. 
Other students enroll in the class in preparation for Spring Break or for family trips to places like Florida, the Bahamas, Mexico and Hawaii. In fact, Tiser's company also acts as a travel agency, booking scuba trips that include air-fare, lodging, and plenty of diving. 

The Notre Dame program handles between 15 to 40 students who meet certain restrictions. 
"You don't have to be a great swimmer, but you can't be afraid of the water," said Tiser, who requires a 300-yard swim with no time limit, a 50-foot underwater swim and a 15­minute tread. 
Tiser's staff includes 12 in­structors who offer personal attention on technical abilities such as equipment and safety. 
Two Notre Dame faculty mem­bers, photography professor Richard Gray and biology professor Bill Archer, add artistic and scientific flavor to the students' underwater experiences as assistant instructors. 
Diving is only a launching pad for other specialized scuba skills. Gray had a reef ecology course in Jamaica which he said, "added a new dimension to this class (which he took three years ago)." He also experiments in underwater photography and plans to integrate it into some of his future works. He and Archer give students an idea of what to expect under the water, with in­formation about marine biology and other scenic features. 
"The skills you can learn don't stop at underwater level," urges Tiser. Other certifications include advanced diving, rescue, dive master, recreational diving, photography, deep-diving, search and recovery, night diving, and navigational diving. 
"There are many directions you can go," emphasized Tiser. 
But for divers under the Dome, it all begins at the muck-bottom ... of St.Joseph's Lake. 
By MARY MURPHY 
Accent Writer 
·
T he latest Broadway smash to hit the stage at Saint Mary's is none other than 
the Tony Award winning "Lend Me A Tenor." This popular comedy comes to O'Laughlin Auditorium, Wednesday, October 14 at 8 p.m. 
The play stars Burton Fitzpatrick as Tito Merelli, an Italian opera singer; Michael Garziano as Max, an aspiring singer and assistant to the producer; and Lesley Blumenthal as Maggie, daughter of the producer and Max's girlfriend. 
The setting is Cleveland, 1934 and the story takes place around the Cleveland Opera's production of "Othello." The play is staged in a hotel suite over the course of a day. The comedy begins when Tito, the star of the show, becomes unavailable just before the curtain rises. In an effort to save the evening, the show tries to find a tenor to impersonate Tito. 

Written by playwright Ken Ludwig, the comedy won two Tony Awards, four Drama Desk Awards, and three Outer Critics Circle Awards. 
Tickets are available at the box office of O'Laughlin Auditorium, Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tic~ets are $14 for adults, $12 for senior citizens and Notre Dame students, and $6 for Saint Mary's students, faculty, and staff. 
page 10 Wednesday, October 14,1992 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from t 0 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
-
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
·classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
ATTENTION: 
For more information and assistance regarding the investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the Better Business Bureau of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 or 800-439-5313. 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
TYPING 
287-4082 
WordWorks Typing Service 
Term papers, dissertations, theses 
277-7406 
APPLYING TO THE LONDON PROGRAM? 
Beat the rush... 
Get your 
APPLICATION 
in before break 
ILOST & FOUND I 
-LOST: Black and Gold Crucifix (Broken from Chain) If found please call Bill x1131 
BIG REWARD, no questions asked 
For my class ring lost 10 I t. If 
found, please call Andrew 
283-4076. 
Lost: Water Supply and Sewage Book (McGhee, 6th ed.) Blue-If found, contact Matt at 277­8178. Midterms are coming! 
HELPI!!!! I LOST A THIN GOLD 
BRACELET MADE OF HEARTS. 
... It was a present from my boyfriend and one of my most sentimental possessions. If you find it, will you please do the kindest thing you'll have ever done and return it to me? I promise a reward to the person who places that bracelet back in my hands! Thanks! 
COLLEEN 
LYNN 238 WALSH 
X4528 
lost: blue jean jacket with green collar and flannel liner please call Pat 272-8115 
WANTED 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn $5000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545­4155 ext. A5584. 
Drummer or Bassist Wantto PLAY? -1887 
WANTED: 2 Bost. Coli. GA's and 2 Penn St. GA's. If you can help, call ALEX x1928. 
Arthur Victor Painting Inc. is 
looking for Branch Managers for 
summer '93. Experience helpful but 
not necessary; complete training 
and field support. High income 
potential. 
800-775-4 7 45 
NEED a ride to OMAHA on 10/16 call TIM @ x1696 will help pay gas and tolls 
Fun female looking for a ride back to ND from Philly-Wilm.-S.N.J. area in time for the BYU game ­whenever. Will share driving & costs. Amy X4012 
SPRING BREAK! Campus Sales Reps. Individuals or organizations. High commission, free trip, easy work. Call College Travel 1-800­998-TRIP. 
Need ride to 
GRAND RAPIDS 
10-16 
X2331 
Three girls desparately need a ride to Chicago Midway on Friday October 16 by 7pm. Will help pay tolls and gas. Please call Jill, Carrie, or Allison at x4758 or x4721. 
Need ride 10/16 to NAPERVILLE,IL area. Will help with gas -Emily x2329 
EARN $1 ,500 WEEKLY mailing our circulars!. .. Begin NOW!. ..FREE 
packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. 
I AM A 21 YR. OLD COLLEGE STUDENT EMPLOYED BY STUDENT PAINTERS. I'VE BEEN PROMOTED TO EXEC. POSITION AND NEED MANAGERS FOR SUMMER EMPLOYMEN~ ELKHART, MICH. CITY, LAPORTE, NILES, THREE RIVERS/SCHOOLCRAFT. SALES EXP. PREFERRED, BUT NOT NESS. MUST HAVE GREAT ADD. AND WORK HARD. AVG. EARNINGS 8,000. CALL 1-800­543-3793 ASK FOR TOM SMITH. 
Riders needed for October break. However, only one way between school and Baton Rouge-my parents are making me fly back. Please call Anne 284-4425. 
HURRICANE, RECONSTRUCTION AND CLEANUP, MANY NEEDED. BOTH SKILLED & UNSKILLED, MEN & WOMEN. HIGH WAGES, FOR INFO. CALL 615-779-5505 EX~ H541 
Going my way? Stopping in or driving through, DESPERATELY need a ride to MEMPHIS, TN for October break!! Will pay half the gas and all tolls! Kelly 284-5114 
WANTED: TRAVEL REPS FOR SPRING BREAK. ESTABLISHED COMPANY WITH MANY YEARS EXPERIENCE. EARN MONEY ON SPARE TIME AND FREE TRIP TO CANCUN. CALL 1-800-3SIESTA, ASK FOR BONNIE. 
NEED a ride to DETROIT on 10/16 call Jeff@ x1138 
I need a ride back from a small town between Nashville and Chatanooga on 1-24 in Tennessee Will help pay for gas, etc. 
Please Call 
Dave x 1740 
I need a ride to or near ST. 
LOUIS 
for Fall Break. I will split gas and 
tolls 
Please call Tim at 1422 
..RIDE NEEDED••Fall Break 
To: Harrisburg, PA; Frederick or 
Baltimore, MD; Washington, 
D.C. 
I Will Help Pay For Gas! 
Please call Cheryl x4813. 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
FOR SALE 
R.T. BUS TICK. to CLEVELAND B.O. X2862 
MacPius, 2.5 meg RAM, carrying case, ext. BOOk drive, ext 20 meg HD, modem, lmagewriter. Asking 500. Call 273 9275. 
For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call Rita Delivery on Campus 234-6524 
MAC SE/20 & lmagewriter II Soflwares and more, $1000 Caii239-8713W or 271-1507H 
FLY TO WASH DC FOR BREAK 2 RT TIX 10/16-10/21 $100 each 273­
2752 
TICKETS 
Boston College Tickets Needed Call Chris x1117 
NEED PSU AND STANFORD 
TIX 
CALL JOE OR JAY X1760 
NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS.272-6306 
Please help!ll I'm in DESPERATE need of Penn State GA's..... 
Call Ann 284-5241 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston College GAs or student tix. Call Jill @ x4758 or x4721. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED PENN STATE TIX-call Sam x4842 
Need One Ticket For Boston College!!! Call273-2967!!! 
Will trade 4 BYU tix for 2 BC tix and 2 Penn St tix. Call (708)665­1827. 
In Need of 
BC tickets 
(as many as humanly possible) call Aileen X4292 
-NEED 2 BYU GA'S­PARENTS ON 1800 MILE TRIP 
TO SEE ONE GAME. WILL PAY PRICE FOR TIX 
CHRIS x1463 
!@#$%'&.()!@#$%'&.()!@#$%' &·o 
BYU BYU BYU 
buy my BYU stud. ticket! BYU BYU BYU 
AMY x 4530 
!@#$%'&·ol©#$%'&·o !@#$%' &·o 
WANTED: 2-4 BYU GA's Call Marie X3818 
NEED 2 BC GA's & 2 PS GA's­JOSH X4107-leave message 
Need Penn St. Ga's -big $$$ Lisa 288-5196 
@@@@@@@@@@@@@ 
FOR SALE FOR SALE 
We cannot go to the BYU game, so we are selling our stu tix. Please take advantage our misfortune. 
Thank you for your help. 
Mike 283-1161 
@@@@@@@@@@@@@ 
IT'S GOING TO BE REALLY COLD BY NOV. 21 AROUND HERE. LET ME PAY YOU TO SIT IN THE COMFORT OF YOUR ROOM OR FAVORITE BAR--ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS GIVE ME YOUR PENN STATE STUDENT TICKET--WHAT A GEAT DEAL!I! 
CALL RICH AT x1 005 
I have 2 50 yd line BYU GAs & 2 BC GAs. I'm looking to trade for any Penn St. GAs. Joe 
x1395 
Need 4 G.A. tickets to BYU Game CALL -1851­
FOR SALE: STUDENT TICKET BOOK CALL MEGAN X4667 
Wanted: 1 BYU GA. Call Mary x3427 
NEED PENN ST. GA'S NICK X4284 
•••••••NEED PSU Tlx•••••••• Call Laurie x2998 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
BYU Stud Ticks for sale Need BC Stud's & GA's Pat 272-8115 
45 yd line BYU stud for sale. CHEAP!!! call Michele @3194. 
HELP!!! I need 1 B.C. ticket. Stud. or G.A. Call x3490. 
I NEED Penn St. tixll! G.A. onlyl!! Call Jessica x3490. 
BUY MY BYU! 
call Erin@ 2331 
Need PSU tix Mike 234-8306 
NEED BYU G.A.'s X4108 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I must have B.C. tickets! Either Student or G.A.'s. My cousin and his buddies are coming in from 
B.C. to watch their team get 
slaughtered! Please help me out! I'M DESPERATEII!III X4990 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!11!!!!111!!!!!1!11!1111!!1!1 
!!!!!!! NEEDED... 4 G.A.'s tor BYU 
CALL JENNY @ 273-2993 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Please help! Friends from Seattle want 2 GA's to BC or Penn. This is my last year! x4174 
I NEED 2 BYU GAs Dan x2053 -Leave message 
HELP! 
My family was devastated when they saw ND lose to Stanford. Help them out of this depression by selling me 2 BYU GA's & 2 stud tix.Call Missy X2947 
#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$##$#$#$#$# 
2 NAVY GAs tor sale. 
Call JACK at 283-1747 
#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$ # 

ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 618-439-3338. 
Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call 1-800-922-BEAR. 
I NEED 1 BC GA, 
DAVE, x4506 
WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR GOOD PENN ST GA"s 2773097 
NEED BC TICKETS IN BIG WAY! DEREK SCHNACK X1374 
In need of two BC GAs. I have $$. 
Please call me at x3891. 
WANTED 3 GA's ND VS BYU 1 0/24 CALL COLLECT 215-355­7131 RON 
TICKETS NEEDED-tO plus BYU GA's-Dan #1852 $$4U 
California ALUM desperate tor Penn State GAs Top $. Pis lv mess. (( 
(415)597-2319 
Need 15 BYU GA's! 
289-7875 

&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&& 
Help me out, Help me out 
Because Because 
My parents, sisters and grandparents are coming tor BYU. They would like to 
see one game together before I graduate. 
PLEASE otter your B Y U GAs 
to me. 

Thank you for your help. Joe G. x 1161 
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&& 
Need to trade 2 BC GA's tor 2 BYU GA's Call Jim at 232-2107 ­after !O:OOpm. 
NEED 4 BYU GA's HEATHER 284-4369 
I need 4 BYU GA's in a bad way. 
WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!! 
Chris 273-8470 
I'LL DO ANYTHING! tor 1 or 2 GAs to B.C. Lisa 284-5080. 
FOR SALE!!!! 
TWO MARRIED STUDENT TICKET BOOKS (no signatures needed) CHEAP TICKETS FOR FRIENDS OR FAMILY CALL BILL AT 299-1845 
$$$$$$$$$$ HELP!!! I NEED 1 GA FOR BYU 
TIM x2763 $$$$$$$$$$ 

ND Alum will pay good price for 4 BYU GA tix. Call (708) 359-2727 Mon-Fri 9-5. Ask for Mitch. 
No one understands how important it is for me to get: 
GA tickets tor the BC game. 
Call Digger at x1052 
Selling BYU and Penn student tickets. Luis 273-1528 
HAVE BYU STUD. TICKET. JAY X1528 
I need 2 BYU GA's. Call Greg x3460. 
Need 2 GA's for BC ASAP Call Derek 283-4522 

NEED ONE GA FOR BYU 
CH X2849 in PW 
I NEED 2 GOOD BYU GA's I GOT$$! BRIAN x 4073 

NEED 2 BYU GA'S QUICKLY!!! HAVE DAD'S $$$$$$ TO SPEND CALL MATT AT X3006 ... 
•••••• NEED BYU GA'S ••••••• 
CALL DAN AT 
283-4499 

HELP! 92 GRAD DESPERATELY NEEDS 2 PENN ST GAs PLEASE CALL JENNY 
215-265-7346. 

Available 2 BC & 2PSU GAs Call 215-641-1154. 
SELLING BYU STUD. TICKET CALL ANN 2790 
I need 2 BYU GA's will pay!!! x2990 Paul 

FOR SALE: 1 BYU STUD. TIX. CALL MIKE x1975 
I NEED 2 B.C. GA'S call Tom 288-1027 
Selling 1 BYU Stud CHEAP -Jennifer 1257 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
You have what I want You have what I want 

and I am willing to pay tor it yes, I will pay tor it !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
PLEASE GIVE IT TO ME I desperately need it NOW!! 
Your right, I NEED GAs 
KYLIE 287-9118 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I need BYU STUDENT TIX. Call Brian 273-8368 

Need 3 BC Tickets, Student or GA. Top Dollar. Call Dan @ 288­6818. 
Wanted: B.C. GA's 
Call Joy x1675 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEEDED!!!! 2 BYU GA'S 
CALL BETH 284-5173 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Got$$$ Need 4 PENN ST GAs Call Ben at x3797 

see CLASS/page 16 

page 11

Wednesday, October 14,1992 The Observer 

~~rce;~r:~~llke ¥~;er~~~ ... ~~te&\~e~~e. how~i~¥. sz statistics reflect..the so-called p(m;9rii of Afdcan..Aifi~.Q¢a,rf "unrefined~ graduation rate, f99tl1~U . playets which regards even students gdl.duated~the highest rate in who transfer from a schooLin ~li.~ ~~~~try for Dlvi~J9jlJSA good stan(}JJ,lg as.. rion" . schogl~~Hh···more t1liil;rtl? graduates, and does <not ··· Ar:ddan~Ailiericanretrnit£1. In include students who tra,nsfer atiat~ion, Jb.e rat~ tol' .NQtre. to a school and graduate: D~me'~ Africall.~A:tql'i#!¢an The "refined~ graduation players was virtuaUjidl!l::i:j.ti¢aJ. rate for Notre Dame football··· to the rate (81 percent) fotthe 
AP File Photo Bob Welch and the rest of Oakland's pitching staff has been working on four-days rest, while Toronto's pitchers have had just three. 
What do you want to do with your Christmas money? 
Aspen/Snowmass, CO. Jan 2, 10, 1993 
Sponsored by ND Ski Team 
$42500 
Questions Call Chris Boone 
273,2958 


Armando's Barber & Hair Style Shop 
1639 Edison Road South Bend, IN 46637 Walking Distance from Campus Across from the Linebacker Appointments Encouraged 
Walk-ins taken on a lit come, 1!l serve basis 

Toronto's three-man rotation looks shaky 
TORONTO (AP) -It's a prob­lem that pops up every post­season: When making pitching plans, do you use a three-man rotation or four? 
The Toronto Blue Jays chose three for the AL playoffs, and went with Jack Morris, David Cone and Juan Guzman. The first time around, it looked pretty good. 
But now, after watching Morris and Cone get pounded in their second turns, the decision seems shaky. 
"I wouldn't want to use it as an excuse at this point," said Cone, who had not started on three days' rest all season. "It's a valid question and something to speculate on. You can use it as a factor, not as an excuse. 
"My arm felt different out there, but it feels different every day," he said. "That's the starting pitcher's dilemma and he has to deal with it." 
The Oakland 1\s went with a four-man rotation of Dave Stewart, Mike Moore, Ron Dar­ling and Bob Welch. Working with the usual four days' rest, they've all pitched pretty well, 
OPEN AUDITIONS!!!! 
RJRTHE 
ST. ED'S PRODUCTION OF 
Out of the Frying 
Pan 
(A COMEDY IN THREE ACTS) 
will be held this coming Tuesday and Wednesday (Oct.I3 & 14) from 9-11 pm m Room 123 Nieuwland 
No preparation necessary!! 

Laettner close to a deal ­
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Chris­tian Laettner is close to signing a six-year contract with the Minnesota Timberwolves, ne­gotiators on both sides said Tuesday. 
"There are reports that we're all done that I wish were true," Timberwolves president Bob Stein said. "We're getting close, but until the deal is finalized, you never know." 
Said Laettner's agent, Arn Tellem: "We're very close but it's not a done deal yet." 
Laettner, the third-overall pick in the 1992 NBA draft, couldn't be reached for comment. 
The Timberwolves, who began workouts last Friday, wrap up the first part of training camp Wednesday morning at St. Cloud State. They then return to Minneapolis before leaving for Thursday night's preseason opener against the New Jersey Nets at Grand Forks, N.D. 
''I'm hopeful that we can get him here in time for him to play 
with the best effort being Stew­art's complete-game victory in Game 5 Monday. 
Stewart, given one more day to rest than his Toronto oppo­nents. kept the Athletics alive in the series. Oakland trails 3-2 going into Game 6 Wednesday. 
Guzman is scheduled to start on three days' rest. Moore will work with four days between starts. 
"I always have my good stuff," Guzman said. "I could pitch on two days' rest. It's no problem." 
That's what the Blue Jays thought about Morris and Cone, too. 
Morris did it with no trouble last October, winning twice for Minnesota against Toronto in the playoffs and going on to be­come the World Series MVP. 
This year, he pitched on three days' rest only once during the regular season, doing it in late September and earning his 20th victory. 
Morris went nine innings in Game 1 of these playoffs, gave up six hits and gave his team a chance to win. He allowed three homers and absorbed a 4-3 in our first game," Stein said. 

"Assuming everything moves ahead, he can be there," Tellem said. "But there are still some issues that are unresolved. That's the problem. It's definitely not a done deal." 
Neither Stein nor Tellem would confirm reports that Laettner's six-year deal would be worth between $20 million and $22 million. 
If Laettner signs, he'd become the third of this year's top eight NBA draft choices with con­tracts. No. 1 Shaquille O'Neal agreed to a seven-year, $40 million deal with Orlando in August, and No. 5 LaPhonso El­lis signed a five-year contract for $13 million with Denver last week. 
The 6-foot-11 Laettner led Duke to national champi­onships as a junior and senior. He averaged 16.6 points as a four-year starter for the Blue Devils and 21.5 points as a se­nior. 
loss. 
But in Game 4, he was out of it right away. Morris was tagged for five runs on five hits and five walks in only 3 1-3 innings, and luckily wound up with a no-decision. 
Morris has won his last seven decisions on three days' rest. Cone was 6-2 with a 1.74 ERA on three days until Monday's debacle. 
Cone, who shut out Oakland for eight innings in Game 2, was ripped for six runs on six hits and two walks in four in­nings. 
"Both guys coming back didn't pitch as good," said Jimmy Key, who was bumped from Toronto's rotation. "It's something management is go­ing to have to look at." 
Blue Jays manager Cito Gas­ton admitted he was worried about the sudden turnaround in his starters, although there's not a lot he can do about it now. His only option would be to start Todd Stottlemyre in pllice of Guzman. 
"I wish I knew why," he said. "If I did, I'd do something about it. I can't really answer that." 
Pirates 
continued from page 16 
July 14 in San Diego. And Glavine was just as awful as he was in the All-Star game. 
Glavine allowed seven straight hits in that one, and what prevented that from occurring again was Atlanta's spring training-like defense.In all, the Pirates had a record­tying eight hits, Atlanta had an on-field error and a mental one, and Glavine had a nightmare. 
Captaln Ron PG13 
5:00, 7:30, 9:30 
Hero PG13 
4:30, 7:00. 9:30 The Last olthe Mohicans R 4:45, 7:15. 9:45 

_P_a~g:e:1:6:::::::::::::::==::=:=:=:=:=:=~--~-------------Th-e~O~b~s~e-N~e-r____________________________________w_e_d_n_es~d~a~y,October14,1992
-e1~~-,r-~,-~~~r~r·
: z: ; : I : I 
-:-r--r--. ·-·-···.

el • -0 e ._IL...I_II ··.L-1-_ii__,i !! ·· .. L_I 0 • • 0 
NCAA SOCCER POLLS  TRANSACTIONS  NHL STANDINGS  
for October 12, 1992 MEN 1. Virginia 2. UCLA 3. UNCCharlone 4. Creighton 5. Bowling Green 6. StJohn's  12-0 9-1-1 8-1-1 9-2 11-0-1 10-0-2  WOMEN 1. North Carolina 2. Stanford 3. Connecticut 4. Portland 5. Hartford 6. SMU 7. Virginia 8. Massachusetts  14-0 9-0 12-0-1 11-1 11-0 12-3 9-3 11-1-1  BASEBALL American League CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Named Don Cooper minor league coordinator. SEATTLE MARINERS-Fired Bill Plummer, manager; Dan Warthen, pitching coach; Gene Clines, hitting coach; Marty Martinez, third-base coach; Rusty Kuntz, flrst·base coach; Russ Nixon, bench coach; and Roger Hansen, bullpen coach. National League  WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Division w L New Jersey 3 1 Pittsburgh 2 0 Philadelphia 2 1 NY Rangers 2 1 Washington 1 3 NY Islanders 0 2 Adame Division  T 0 2 1 0 0 1  Pta 6 6 5 4 2 1  GF 16 19 16 12 12 9  GA 13 14 15 8 17 14  Home 3­0-0 2­0-1 1­0-0 1­0-0 (). 2-0 (). 0-0  Away (). 1-0 (). 0-1 1­1-1 1­1-0 1­1-0 (). 2-1  Div 3­1-0 1­0-1 2­0-1 1­1-0 (). 3-0 (). 2-0  
7. Washington a NC State 9. Penn State 10. James Madison 11. StLouis 12. Duke  7-1-3 7-2-2 10-3 10-2 9-2-1 8-1-2  9. Santa Clara 10. Central Florida 11. William & Mary 12. Colorado College 13. Duke 14. Rutgers  8-2-1 6-2-1 9-3 7-1-2 10-3 6-2-4  CHICAGO CUBS-Named Jimmy Bank traveling secretary and Scott Nelson dlreclor of player de· velopment administration. Assigned Jeff Hartstock, pitcher, and Elvin Paulino, first baseman, to Iowa of the American Association. SAN DIEGO PADRES-Named Tim Flannery roving minor league instructor and manager of  Quebec Boston Buffalo Montreal Ottawa Hartford CAMPBELL  3 0 0 2 0 1 2 2 0 1 2 1 1 2 0 0 4 0 CONFERENCE  6 5 4 3 2 0  20 12 22 13 10 7  9 8 15 17 18 19  2­2· 1­(). 1· ().  0-0 0-1 1-0 0-1 0-0 2-0  1­(). 1­1­(). ().  0-0 0-0 1-0 2-0 2-0 2-0  2­2­2­1­1­().  0-0 0-0 1·0 2-0 2-0 3-0  
13. Boston  7-4  15. NOTRE DAME  7-4-1  Spokane of the Northwest League.  Norrie Division  
14. Portland 15. SMU 16. Clemson 17. Indiana 18. San Diego tie Rutgers 20. George Mason  8-3 8-2-1 8-2-3 6-5-1 9-3 7-4 6-3-3  16. NC State 17. Wisconsin (Mad.) 18. NC Greensboro 19. Yale 20. St. Mary's (Cal.)  10-4-1 6-3-2 8-3-1 6-3 6-4-1  SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Sent Francisco Oliveras and Jim Myers, pitchers, and Jim McNa· mara, catcher, outright to Phoenix of the Pacilic Coast League. Announced Oliveras refused as­signment and became a free agent. McNamara becomes a six·year minor league free agent. BASKETBALL National Basketball Association  w L Detroit 2 1 Minnesota 2 1 Chicago 1 1 Tampa Bay 1 St. Louis 2 Toronto 0 2 Smythe Division  T 0 0 1 0 1  Pta 4 4 3 3 2 1  GF 12 11 10 12 8 10  GA 10 9 11 9 12 12  Home (). 0·0 2­0-0 (). 0-1 1­0-0 1­1·0 (). 1-0  Away 2· 1·0 (). 1·0 1­1-0 (). 1-1 (). 1·0 (). 1-1  Div (). 0·0 2­1-0 1­1-1 1­1-1 1­2-0 (). 0-0  
tie 22. 23. 24. 25.  Dartmouth Army New Mexico Wake Forest Santa Clara  6-2-1 6-2-1 9-2-1 6-4-1 6-2-1  National Football League DALLAS COWBOYS-Traded Alexander Wright, wide receiver, to the Los Angeles Raiders for an undisclosed 1993 draft choice. DENVER BRONCOS-Waived Jeff Alexander, running back.  NEW JERSEY NETS-Signed Chris Morris, lor­ward, to a three·year contract. WASHINGTON BULLETS-Signed Don Maclean, forward, to a multiyear contract. Waived Rudy Archer, guard, and Derek Strong and Craig UpchU!ch, lorwards. Continental Basketball Association COLUMBUS HORIZON-Signed Ronald Rut- Vancouver 3 Calgary 2 Los Angeles 2 San Jose 1 Winnipeg 1 Edmonton 0 Monday'• Gamea Boston 6, Ottawa 3  0 1 1 1 3 3  0 0 0 0 0 1  6 4 2 2 1  18 14 14 7 11 11  7 9 12 9 19 20  2­2­1· 1­1· ().  0-0 1·0 1-0 1-0 0·0 1-1  1­(). 1­(). (). ().  0·0 0-0 0-0 0-0 3-0 2-0  3­1­2­1­(). ().  0-0 1-0 0-0 0·0 3-0 3-0  
HOUSTON OILERS-Waived Corey Harris, wide  land, guard.  New Jersey 4, Washington 2  
receiver. LOS ANGELES Evans, quarterback.  RAIDERS-Waived  Vince  FORT WAYNE FURY-Signed Kelvin Upshaw, guard, and Andre Patterson, forward.  New York Rangers 6, Hartford 2 V1.ncouver 8, Winnipeg 1  

Birdo-I hope you have a ATTENTION RICO AND RICO COMMUNITY SERVICE HOURS Andrea and Kate are HEY PANGBORN LESBIAN wonderful 21st birthday studying for
Class 

JR ... ? AWESOME!!! LOVERS, NICE TO YOU MADE your physics test. Just watch out for Dammit, we've had our rooms IT FROM THE CLOSET TO THE those JELLO shots! 
continued from page 1 0 

straight all along! I All our love Volunteer for RECYCLIN' IRISH CONGRATS TO THE WINNERS BED ON 11TH. WHAT'S YOUR 
to the guys of 507, #7 and the Collection Crews OF THE LYONS GOLF CLASSICI EXCUSE THIS TIME? Since you probably don't Please Help me... taco bell man from Dayton. •$100 Grand Prize Winning Team remember our conversation at lunch HELP THE ENVIRONMENT, of Joe Huston, David Colgan, Chris Doctor and teacher will make yesterday since you're getting up in I desperately need 4 BYU GA's. Heidi-HELP YOURSELF! Garlitz, and Mike Nuss with the dreams for your baby come true. years (the mind in the first thing to If you_ have them, I want them. Have you gotten any good piggy­score of 5 under. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; go). I just want to remind you that back rides lately? EASY! FUN! •Jell Hasselman for winning summers by the beach. Your baby now that you are officially old to Call ANDY at 283-1723 -Erin Longest Drive and a Parisi dinner rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace make sure you have your blood CALL Becky at #4836 for info. for two. in winter, and by ocean waves in pressure checked regularly, eat you NDE #23 and the Grey-Duck •Jesse Ewan for winning Closest summer. Art, music, the best bran, and do those self breast 
HeyNiff Mucklucks, you'll be a part of me COMMUNITY SERVICE HOURS to the Pin and a Papa John's pizza education, endless love. Call examinations regularly. forever. Keep floating! Love, ? party. Franny or Stephen collect. (212) 
OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES The Bearer of the Sacred •Raffle Winners: 369-2597. Peace and Love-MARTEN 
Slippers Loving young couple want to Vince Casingal, Rob Eng, @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@# 
ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. adopt baby. llllom a teacher will stay Chris Buckingham, Hegh-Jun Ju, T.R.-@# family can provide financial security, HAPPY BIRTHDAY home full time. Call Laura/Brian Chris Ewart, and Ted Gilchrist. How much meat do you like in excellent education and wonderful JEANNE-MARIE!! collect 708-482-7576 or 312-220-• Thanks to all golfers & caddies! your taco? Peter Krebs is a godly looking 
future for your baby. Please let us Even if we won't see Cecilia 3194 man, but Matt Owens is a hell of 
help you in this difficult time. tonight, we'll take a raincheck for -the big, green alover. Confidential and legal. Medical alter break. Love always, !111!1111111 Jersey boys -turtle 
expenses paid. Collect anytime. The Florida Seven We hope you had fun Saturday. Hi Cricky, Kathy, and Kerg: 
(818) 246-1763 John: we'll bring you hairspray @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@# I can't wait for the 
DOING SERVICE WORK OVER Hobbes is still not 21, too bad next time! @# PumpkinCarving Festivities!! 
LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes FALL BREAK? Interested in talking some day you'll drink with us Greg: I hope there's no Have a great Rock-tober Break-­every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am to an Observer reporter about your permanent damage! Here are the TOP FIVE things 1'11 miss you all! Eastern Time. Train and jump the experience? Raise awareness !I!!!!! II!! John: At least one of you has a that the general public does not Love Peggy 
same day. Modern equipment ant about service opportunities and get conscience. know about Bridget "BIRD" Graham: 
training programs. Licensed your name in the paper!! I STILL NEED BC GA'S IN A Thanks for the game-we gave Hey Mayonnaise and Lunchmeat­instructors. FFI call Skydive -Call the Observer Accent dept. BIG, BAD WAY. THE THREAT OF you those last 5 pts out of pity. 5. She likes her pickles extra Here is your much awaited 
Hastings (616) 948-2665. or Jenn at 4059 and leave your PHYSICAL DANGER IS IMMINENT Rematch? large. personal (RIGHT!). Hope you have name and#. IF I DO NOT COME THROUGH 4. Her hips take her places. great Breaks, we'll party when we 
HELP! NEED A RIDE TO TWIN FOR MY "FRIENDS." -the tallest three dates you 3. She takes judo because she return--PEG 
CITIES-OCT. BREAK. WILL PAY 4 MARGE ever had. enjoys throwing men to the ground. 
GAS & TOLLS. 284-5157 Please save my 2. She is the former Queen of 
Physician and Attorney wish to life. ERICA PW. HI BRYAN! YOU'RE NEAT! MOM, PATMAN, JULIE, WILLY, provide loving home for your child Jenn x4059 LOOK AT THE MOON!!! 
ZHACK AND JACKIE: filled with hugs, kisses, laughter. HAPPIEST BIRTHDAY 1. Today is her 21st Birthday!! Do You like My Gilt To You?? Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy saw the mail truck and thought of WE LOVE YOU, 
I Miss You!!! Love, AMY Collect (708) 655-3124. you! SHELL, KAR, JESS 
EARN $2,000 +FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! North America's #1 Student Tour Operator seeking motivated students, organizations, fraternities and sororities as campus representatives promoting Cancun or Daytona Beach! Call1-800-365-4654 
• 
-~ 
SA........-r .........,~·& c~~­
t\ORtftU CrnTfR fOR Tttt ctl R T S 
Wednesday, Oct. 14,8 p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Friday-Sunday, Nov. 13-15
The National Touring Production 
Saint Mary's presents 
AN EVENING OF OPERA AND DANCE 
Tickets $6/$5
nnonfn 
MOREAU GALLERIES, Brinsley Tyrrell, sculpture; Lilian Tyrrell, tapestries; Oct. 9-Nov. 6. Admission free. 
• OR 
COMING ATTRACTIONS ... ACDA Central Division Collegiate Honors 
• 
Festival Choir, Oct. 31... The Statesmen, 
Saint Mary's community (w/id) $6 ND students/guests$12 Nov. 6...The Ink Spots, Nov. 21. 
~matoHarl
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's 
. ~ 
box office. located In O'Laughlln Auditorium. Samt Mary's Colle~ C.~>l Information and charge card orders: 219/284-4626. 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
Hiiiiiidi1 
I 

THE 
~~L?e*" 
DOMER DASH 
WHAT: A two-person (1 male & 1 female) 
team obstacle course, of course! WHERE: At the JACC, Gym 2! WHEN: October 28, Wednesday, 7pm! WHO: Grab a partner and 'DO THE DASH'! HOW: Sign up at the RecSports Office, call 
239-6100! 
Participate or just watch. Those present can enter a drawing for the GRAND PRIZE -A Compact Disc Player 
Participate and compete for pri~es worth over $200! 
WE 
DARE YOU!! 
(double dog) 
** A National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week Event ** *** Sponsored by : Office of Recreational Sports & 
Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
*** 


Wednesday, October 14,1992 The Observer page 13 
Flanner, Zahm stay on top in IH football 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Sports Writer 
With only one week remain­ing in the regular season, last weekend's interhall football contests were especially impor­tant for teams on the brink of finishing in the top four of their division and thereby advancing into the playoffs. 
The first place team in each division stayed on top, as Zahm improved to 4-0 to lead the Blue division, and Flanner stayed unbeaten at 3-0 to lead the Gold division. 
In playoff position behind Zahm in the Blue division are Cavanaugh (3-0), Alumni (2-1), and Carroll (2-2). The Gold division is just as tight at the top, as both Off-campus (3-1) and Keenan (3-1) trail by just a half game, while Stanford (1-2) and Dillon (1-2) will battle Wednesday night for the final berth. 
Alumni 14, Sorin 11 

After losing its first game, Alumni has come roaring back in recent weeks, improving to 2-1 after edging Sorin (1-3). Sorin drew first blood in the contest, booting a 40-yard field goal after intercepting an Alumni pass on the first pos­session of the game. However, Alumni caught a lucky break later in the first half, as on fourth and long another pass was intercepted by the Sorin defense, but this time was fumbled into the endzone, and although covered by Sorin, re­sulted in a safety, giving Alumni momentum going into the half. 
This momentum was quickly converted to points in the second half, as Alumni quarterback Conrad Hanson connected with Dan Morrison for the game's first touchdown. Later in the half the Alumni defense struck the games' de­cisive blow, as Mike Lauinger intercepted a Sorin pass and darted 50 yards for the clinch­ing touchdown. Sorin managed to make the waning moments of the game exciting, connecting on a "Hail Mary" pass for their only touchdown, but Alumni recovered the ensuing kickoff and managed to run out the clock. 
Zahm 14, St. Ed's 0 
Zahm continued its domina­tion of Blue division competi­tion, blanking St. Ed's (0-3). Zahm receiver Pete Couri proved to be the star of what Zahm captain Matt Seng called "a relatively clean game." Couri set up Zahm's first score by catching a short pass and breaking tackles en route to a 30-yard gain. Quarterback Chris Hammond converted on a touchdown run shortly thereafter. Couri wasn't fin­ished however, as he iced the game with a spectacular punt return for a touchdown, provid­ing the game's final margin. 
Cavanaugh 7, Carroll 0 
Cavanaugh stayed undefeated by dropping Carroll (2-2), al­lowing for the possibility that a win this week would vault them in a tie with Zahm for first place in the Blue division. Ca­vanaugh's defense was the main factor behind the victory, as they held Carroll's dangerous quarterback Jon Oleksyk scoreless with crucial stops at the goal line. The game's only points were scored by Ca­vanaugh back Nick Preservati, who broke loose for a 25-yard scoring run. 
O-C12,Stanford 0 ~ 
Off-campus played oppor­tunistic football to stay in a challenging position in the Gold division, dropping Stanford into 
WHAT IF YOU DONIJGET INTO THE KHOOL OF YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure. there areother schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep cou~s help students raise their scores and their chancesof beingadmitted into their first-choice schools. Fact is. noone has helped students score higher! 
1717 E. South Bend Avenue South Bend, IN 46637 
(219) 272-4135 


a must win situation in this week's game against Dillon. Tom Pitstick, who 0-C coach Keith McKeon notes is "making a strong argument for league MVP," dominated the game, returning an interception 75 yards for one score and scoring the game's only offensive points on a pass reception, set up by a 45-yard pass from Joel Wine to Jeff Burns. Although Stanford was able to move the ball well all game against 0-C, Pitstick again came up big in crucial situations, adding a sack just as it seemed Stanford might score. The game was marred by a brawl that saw both benches clear, forcing the officials to stop the contest with time still left in the fourth quarter. 
Keenan 14, Grace 0 
The Keenan defense blanked Grace for its third straight shutout, keeping pace with OC in the Gold division. Rich Toohey was the key to anchor­ing the Keenan defense, as he penetrated the line for numer­ous tackles in the Grace back­field. Offensively, Keenan mixed ·both the run and the pass successfully, as quarter­back Matt Casey connected with Ben Mitchell for a 20-yard scoring pass, while Brian Mur­phy had a 30-yard run for the other Keenan score. 
Flanner 6, Morrissey 0 
Flanner stayed undefeated and dropped Morrissey (1-3) out of playoff contention in a game that Flanner captain Bernie Keller called "exciting if you like defensive football." The Flanner defense may not be particularly exciting but is un­doubtedly effective, refusing to allow Morrissey a good scoring opportunity. The only points of the game were scored by Mike Thompson, who carried the Flanner offense all game long, on a seven-yard run. 
Dean 
continued from page 16 
power that had accumulated an undefeated conference record in its six-year MCC membership. 
The win improves Notre Dame's record to 7-4-1 (4-1 in the MCC) and has Berticelli sat­isfied with the present state of 


• 
stronger commitment to win­ning than any team I played for 
I
I in high school," he said. I I
Sales R~oresentative 

Dean credits much of the I New Memberships or Transfers 
defense's resurgence to Irish 1 sweeper and team captain l
Auto & Property Insurance 
cHicAGO 

I
Tricoci, who has provided the
AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 

I
MOlOR 

squad with some much-needed
5922 GRAPE ROAD 
CLUB 

leadership.
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 

Dean says that he and his 1 fellow defensemen are not 1
MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 

troubled by things like scoring
Pjease ask for John O'MIIIIey. 

statistics. They find more in-lllll•••••••••••••••••••••••tangible ways to inspire them­
selves. 
Cashier's Office 
106 Administration Bldg. 
is now open 
9 a.m.-4:30 p.m. 

-
the team. this year. That would get us an 
"The team is beginning to automatic bid in the NCAA mature," the coach said. tournament," Dean said. "Our "We've gotten better every time main objective is to eventually we've played." take the conference over." 
Dean believes that the team Dean should know some­will continue to improve and thing about domination in soc-. has hopes that the Irish season cer. His high school team, Je­will continue into postseason suit Prep, won all 41 games in play. which he played. It did not 
"We're definitely expecting compare to last year, his first at to win the MCC tournament Notre Dame, though. "Last year's team had a 
"Getting less recognition doesn't affect us. We're con­tent with our role on the team. We take pride in ourselves as a defensive unit." 
GREEI<S & CLUBS 
RAISE A COOL 
'1000 
IN JUST ONE WEEKI 
PLUS $1000 FOR THE 
MEMBER WHO CAlLS! 
No obligation. No cost You also get a FREE HEADPHONE RADIO just for calling 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 


page 14 The Observer 

Wednesday, October 14,1992 


-
Coyle wants to be part of a national title 
By BRIAN KUBICKI 
Sports Writer 
John Coyle knew of Notre Dame's traditional standing as a powerhouse, and he enrolled hoping to be a part of a national championship-a cross-country national championship. 
Two years ago as a sopho­more he almost saw his dream realized. Coyle led a talented Irish squad to a third-place fin­ish in the NCAA national invita­tional by fmishing 24th overall, earning himself All-American honors, as well. 
"Mike McWilliams and I kind of stumbled into (the leadership roles on the team)," Coyle ex­plained referring to injuries sustained late in that season by Mike O'Connor and Ryan Cahill, the two senior leaders of the squad. 

With Coyle and McWilliams both coming off All-American seasons and a crop of promis­I ing young talent, the Irish r looked to improve on that finish I in the following season. Disap­
I 
I 
pointment was all that they found.! Notre Dame failed to qualify for nationals as a team, sending 
I Soccer
I 
continued from page 16

r 
"For a first year team they have ,'I done really well." McCarthy thrived against the 
r 
last first-year program she

I 
faced, scoring the first three

I t Notre Dame goals in a span of 
I ten minutes. 
' Kentucky should have diffi­' culty handling McCarthy and 
' 
fellow attackers Alison Lester 

't 
! 
l and Rosella Guerrero. The trio has accumulated 21 of Notre Dame's 34 goals on the year. 
The only hope Kentucky may 
r.,>O.b~ 

'
I ~ ~· O''r ~&A,'\
I " or:< ,._"'f
~-<;;~~I

I "~ .,.,.
,'0 ~

f 
t '~~~~ looking for 
c.,o Campus Bands 

' ' t 
Call 233-7747 

~ 
' 
After 3 p.m. 

f 
I I 
I 1 mile east of campus
I 
t 
r 
~ 
Volleyball slips past Bowling Green 
By DAN PIER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame head volleyball coach Debbie Brown often takes pride in the fact that her team does what it takes to win. Matches like last night's victory over Bowling Green State, however, is not quite what Brown hopes for when she uses that terminology. The Irish struggled all night and prevailed only after facing four Falcon match points, 15-10, 9­15, 15-8, 11-15, 18-16. 
"I don't want any more of these," Brown exclaimed. "As usual, I'm extremely pleased that we won. I just wish we wouldn't struggle so much sometimes. We just weren't sharp tonight." 
The Irish were just sharp enough, though, being spurred on by a strong bench and a clutch performance by the front line late in game five. 

John Coyle 
only McWilliams and Coyle back to the meet to compete in­dividually. For Coyle the disap­pointment continued as he failed to repeat as an All­American, finishing 41st. 
"I had a good season up to nationals. On any given day I could have performed, but that day I didn't," he recalled. But Coyle said that the disappoint­ment has helped him and the team to focus on this year's goals. 
For Coyle individually, it is to finish in the top ten at nation­als. But the senior captain stresses the team goal, "If we beat anyone who wears red and white, we will be successful and 
have is that Notre Dame will be looking ahead to its matchup with ninth-ranked SMU on Oc­tober 19th. 
"Coach (Irish coach Chris Petrucelli) was worried that we would not be concentrating, but I think everyone is focused on the game," added McCarthy. 
If Notre Dame was looking ahead it would be for good rea-
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Asst. Saint Mary's Editor 
Contact Anna Marie Tabor at 239-5303 or 284-5440 for !!'.ore information. 
win the district and nationals." Wisconsin ranked third in the nation is the top team in Notre Dame's district, and Arkansas is the returning NCAA champions. 
Despite leading the team on the course as a sophomore, Coyle says his role as captain off the course this year is very different. "Even though he was injured, Mike O'Connor as cap­tain was one of the reasons we finished third. I learned a lot from him. I am doing a lot of the things he did and trying to improve on them." 
Championships are not new to Coyle who admits his high school, Christian Brothers Academy in Howell, New Jersey "is a cross-country powerhouse that has many state championships in its trophy case." With this in his favor, Coyle's high school coach con­vinced him to give up soccer and run. 
Coyle has never looked back, revealing that running is in his future. "I hope I can keep im­proving and step up to the na­tional level. If I want to put making money on the back burner, maybe I can even make the Olympics. I have a ways to go, but I love it that much." 
son. The Lady Mustangs are the last top-flight team on the schedule, and the final chance for Petrucelli's squad to im­prove its ranking and make an impression on the NCAA committee handling tourna­ment bids. 
"This is a big week for us," said Notre Dame's third year coach. "It's going to be a big game against SMU." 

Sophomore outside hitter Nicole Coates played the last three games, racking up eleven kills and three service aces, while first year setter Shannon Tuttle also played three games and contributed 42 assists. Five of Notre Dame's last seven points came on block kills. 
After winning the first game, Notre Dame was plagued with sloppy spells the rest of the way. The Irish committed eight errors en route to dropping game two. Coates gave the Irish a lift in game three, however, spraying five kills and serving all three of her aces. Tuttle set up most of the team's 23 kills. 
"Our bench definitely helped us tonight," Brown reported. "Nicole did a good job, and Shannon came in and picked up the team. She deserved to stay in there." 
Notre Dame stumbled in game four again, committing five service errors. Bowling Green scored eight unanswered points to take a 9-5 lead and cruised. 
In game five, the Falcons took the lead 4-1. After battling to a 13-11 deficit, though. the Irish came through in the clutch. Marilyn Cragin pounded out two big kills after that point, while Cragin, Cynthia May, Jessica Fiebelkorn, and Tuttle combined for five block kills. A block also caused the Falcons to hit the ball long to end the game. 
"Real important," Brown said of her net defense. "We knew where they were going but they were just getting balls through us. In game five, we had finally seen it enough times that we were able to execute." 
Christy Peters led the Irish offense with 22 kills. Fiebelkorn had 34 digs. Love led the Falcons with 24 kills and 25 digs, while Costein contributed 21 kills and 23 digs. 
SPORTS BRIEFS  
Irish Youth Hockey League is looking for ND students to coach or assist cuaches during the upcoming hockey season. If interested, contact Scott Gosselin at 271·7414. The Aikido Club will be having open practices on Mondays and Wednesdays from>6·8 p.m. in Rockne 219. Everyone is welcome. Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club practice times have changed. The dnb will now meet on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7:30p.m. in the Fencing Gym at Gate 4 of thtJ JACC. If you have questions, call Tim Kalamaros at 277-6797. ND/SMC field hockey will practice on October 14 in Loftus at 9 p.m. If you cannot come, please call Liz at 283-2670. ND/SMC field hockey will hold practice on October 14 at 9 p.m. in Loftus. Ifyou cannot attend, callLiz at 283-2670. SMC varsity basketball open gym will last only three more days on October 26; 27 and 29 from 8-10 p.m. Everyone is strongly encouraged to attend.  
reduce reuse recycle  


Tues:50°/o off everything (including appetizers) 
Weds:If you know what's happening, come in and give us a penny for your thoughts 
Thurs:Everything's $1 VELCRO jUMPING -o.­1150 Mishawaka Ave.P__._0 ___ 
South Bend, IN ,...,.../' ! 
•
om••••-•,_ ~ •
288--0285 ------,.--t 
~ ~ 


Today ­

Wednesday, October 14, 1992 page 15
Brought to you by DOMINO'S 

SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


-cc() zo ~­:JZ ....JW <((I) :IHl  IaIt's never too early to start thinking:::» about your costume for the biggest ..I Halloween celebration ever! October 31st at The Club 9--2 must be 21  

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
CROSSWORD 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
4;..+:;.+-::~~ 
Fi~~ 
-=+::::+::+=-~=+::+.'-E+=-i 
=+::=+=+::-i 
__.__.__...__. 
IF \Gt-lORI~JK~ \'::> BLISS, 
Tl-\IS L~ WOULD APF'D.R 1D Bt. f.. OCLI8t.RA'It. f>.ntMPI 00 iOIJR PART m DtPRI~ ME r::Jr 1-\~PP\t-.IESS, 'ffi£ P\JR'SU\1 cr-W\\IC\.1 1'::> tJ\'{ UNf\LitN"-BLE 
RIGI-\i (>,CCORDit-.\G It> 11\£ CECV..R~\\Ot-.1 \ll= \t{\lEPB\IJrnCE 
I 
63 "The Times -,"songby2 Down 
66 Flow against 67 Band leader 
Shaw 68 Vols' state 69 Theatrical 
honor 70 Where runners get together 71 Command to Spot 
DOWN 
1 Take time to smell the flowers 2 Singer born 5/24/41 3 Unaccompa­nied 4 Suburbanites' 
machines 5 Pro's foe 6" ... on-and 
a prayer" 7 Its capital is Nairobi a "-Talking," Rivers book 9 Library sound 10 "The Lion-," 1968 movie 
11 Spahn teammate in the 40's 
12 Prong 13 Early car manufacturer 18 Chemical 
compound 19 Dark, in poesy 25 With equanimity 
I 11-IEREFC>RE A'SS£R\ !II'{ PA\RIOT\C PRERoGATI'JE NOT 
TO ¥:!'\OW -rn1s Mt\1£R\F--L. 
1' Ll 13£ OVT 0~ 11\£ 
P\.AiGROUN.D. 
BILL WATTERSON 
HELLlPP.' 
MONAROIISTS ! 
27 Buck's 
outgrowth 29 Hindu deity 30 Netman Lend I 31 Do some 
darning 32 Saroyan hero 33 Musical finale 34 Ski lift 36 Type of dye 37DIIxll 38 Scottish uncle 41 Wage earner 42 Twain's last 
hometown 
47 Hollywood's Turner 49Catkins 51 Alpine river 52 Diminish 
53 Implicit 55 Debra of films 56 Minneapolis 
suburb 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 


.. 
57 Comedian 
Bruce 58 Norman town 59 One-legged 
protagonist 60 Third son of 
Jacob and Leah 64 Ewe's mate 65 "F~r-a jolly 

ACROSS 
1 Bede of fiction 5 Teatime 
comestibles 10 Ratio words 14 Molar: Comb. 
form 15 Long-jump 
champ: 1936 16 Capture 17 Song by 2 
Down 20 Highway divisions 21 Actress Carrie 
22 Twining stems 23 First of 12, in 
Madrid 24Nicelad 26 Wee, in Wick 28 County in NW 
Mich. 
32 Put on a show 35 Jewelry material 39 Overhang 40 Real name of 2 
Down 43 Original man 44 Jim -,Apollo 
astronaut 45To-fro 46 Christie's Jane 
48 Singer Sumac 50 Steer steerer 54 Drive forward 58 Literary 
gathering 61 Monogram of a famed suffragist 62 English novelist: 1814-84 


-
Sports 
page 16 

Wednesday, October 14,1992 
.. 
JENNY MARTEN 
On Top of Sports 
Forfeits hamper 
Rec-Sports 
competition 
In the realm of sports, it really doesn't mean that much, but for the guys and I, winning the RecSports co· rec softball title was pretty important. 
It was on a Thursday afternoon just a few weeks ago when my team became co-ree softball champions. The game was tight and went back and forth all the way. 
The game was so close that we had to go into extra innings. Then finally in the second extra inning, we went ahead for good and shut the other team down with strong defense and the title was ours. 
The competition in the game was excellent. Big hits and sparkling defensive plays were turned in by members of both teams and the game could have probably gone either way. The best part of it was that the game was a lot of fun. 
Fun and friendly competition are the purpose of every RecSports league and the RecSports staff does a good job making sure that there are plenty of leagues for a variety of sports. There is only one ~hing that the RecSports staff can't do-prevent games from being forfeited. 
My team had a season record of 6-1 which includes two victories in the tournament. In actuality, we were only 2-1. The other five games we won by forfeit. This statistic casts an ominous shadow on the championship caliber of the team on one hand, but on the other hand it says that we were dedi­cated enough to show up for the games. 
I'm not insane. I know that people will always have conflicts in scheduling and not everyone will be able to make it to a RecSports league game, but it defeats the purpose of the league if people don't try. 
My team won those forfeited games because we always had a few guys show up for every game and if there weren't enough people, we just tried to find people to play in that game. I assume that it's against some RecSports rule to have people play who aren't on the roster and who haven't signed insurance forms, but playing with a person not on the roster seems better than not playing at all. 
If you sign up on a team for a RecSports league, be considerate of the other teams and try to show up for the games. It makes the league more fun if the teams actually play games. The games aren't too time-consuming and they provide a healthy break from classes, tests, labs and stuff. 
In addition to myself, people who played for the champion co-ree softball team included Mike Bremner, Dave Hazelton, Cameron Turner, Luke Lam­prey, Andy Wieser, Pat Duffy, Eric Moran, Sean Fitzpatrick, Dan Costello, Matt Zino, Wade Barnhart, John Mattingly and superfan Jeff Taddio. 
Tt,e Observer/Kyle Kusek 

Sophomore Chris Dean's intensity and committment to winning have helped spark an improving Notre Dame defense. 
Dean's intensity boosts Irish defense 
By TEDS PETERSON 
Sports Writer 
One assist. 
That is all you will find in sophomore defensemen's Chris Dean's career scoring statistics, but numbers do not come close to h'easuring his value on the Notre Dame H> .•n's soccer team. 
When Irish coach Mike Berticelli speaks about Dean, words like "intensi~y" and "focus" come up often. "He's committed to winning," says Berticelli. 
This statement could apply to the whole of the hard-working Irish defense, led also by senior Mario Tricoci, senior Kevin Pendergast, and sophomore Kevin Adkisson. 
Dean and company showed that type of commitment again on Sunday, as the Irish used unyielding defense to shut out Evansville, 1-0. 
Dean and the rest of the Irish defense has played a critical role in the approach of a Notre Dame soccer record. After the Evansville victory, sophomore goalkeeper Bert Bader is only six shutouts away from the Irish career mark. 
Dean says that Bader's success is one of the points that the defense uses as an 

Bader named MCC Player of Week 
Special to the Observer 
It has been a good week for Notre Dame men's soccer player Bert Bader. 
Just days after being in Soccer America's "Collegiate Personality Profile," Bader registered the 16th shutout in his two~year career and the fifth in 1992 as the Notre Dame fighting Irish (7-4-1) topped the Evansville Aces 1-0 Sunday at Black Beauty Field in Evansville. For his. efforts, he was named the MCC player of the week of Oct. 5~11. 
acid test for their own performance. 
"We [the defense] take a certain amount of pride when Bert does well," Dean explained. "He's accomplished so much so early in his career." 
It is this type of unselfish, team­oriented philosophy that has helped the Notre Dame defense finally gel after a slow start. 
"Earlier, we were winning games 3-1 or 4-1 when they should have been shutouts," Dean said. "The rest of the team lost confidence in the defense." 
Wakefield, Pittsburgh blast Atlanta to force seventh game 
ATLANTA (AP) -Tim Wakefie"ld and the Pittsburgh Pirates didn't knuckle under to the At­lanta Braves and the win­or-go home pressure. 
The rookie baffled the Braves again with his dipping, dancing knuckleball Tuesday night in a 13-4 victory that forced another seventh game in the National League playoffs. 
The Pirates tied the record for most runs in a playoff game. Barry Bonds homered to start the second inning and by the time the Pirates stopped eight runs later, the series 
'liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ was tied at three games
• apiece.INSIDE SPORTS Pittsburgh, which 
• Volle b JI.L.f t · r. Green seemed destined for a
8
•·· y a ~· ea s ow tng ..··. third straight playoff 
... ·.····. seepage 
14 failure, will try for an­other r1:1cord in Game 7: IIJohn Coyle wants to be part of a the first NL team to rally championShip team seepage 14 from a 3-1 deficit and win the playoffs. They'll also atH footbalhoundup try to do what the Braves 
seepage 13 did to them last year, rallying from 3-2 down by 
winning the final two games on the road. 
"We were in an oxygen tent for a couple of days," manager Jim Leyland said. "We HAD to win that game." 
On Wednesday night, John Smoltz, who's already beaten Pittsburgh twice, will oppose Doug Drabek, who's lost his last three starts but hasn't had a four-game losing streak since 1989. 
Here's another number to ponder: in 12 of the last 13 playoff series, the team that won the penultimate game also won the series. 
"Maybe we need a Baptist preacher to come in and redeem us," Braves manager Bobby Cox said. "Most people expected it to go seven games; I just wish it was over by now." 
Only one team in major­league playoff history has rallied from a 3-1 deficit by winning the final two games on the road: Kansas City in 1985 against Toronto. The Blue 
Jays' manager? Bobby Cox. 
"Two of the best pitchers in baseball will decide it now, but I'd have rather lost this way than lose 2-1 on a bloop hit in the lOth," Cox said. 
"But we haven't done anything yet, all we've done is force a Game 7," said Lloyd McClendon, who had three of the Pirates' 13 hits. 
Atlanta has a statue of a knuckleballer outside its 
· stadium, and the way he's pitching, Wakefield may find one waiting for him back in Pittsburgh. 
"To me, it was just a great honor to pitch this game," Wakefield said. "It was the opportunity of a lifetime, and I didn't want to blow it." 
The Knuckleball Kid has beaten Braves 20-game winner Tom Glavine twice, a remarkable feat considering he was in the minors when Glavine started the All-Star game 

The victory over the No. 24 Aces was Evansville's first regular season MCC loss in 16 games, dating back to the middJe..of 1989. 
Bader, just a sophomore, leads the conference with a .90 overall goals­against average and five shutouts. He has 50 saves on the year and has given up only two goals in Notre Dame's five conference matches as the Irish are 4-1. On his career. he is already six shutouts shy of matching the school record for shutouts (22}. 
If the Irish defense was in the doghouse because of earlier performances, Sunday's game did plenty to dig them out. 
In an intense, physical battle, the Irish shut down Evansville, a team that had not lost a regular-season conference game since entering the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. 
Dean said that the victory was a "big accomplishment" for the defensive squad, controlling a perennial top-20 
see DEAN/ page 13 
Women's soccer 
ends homestand 
against Kentucky 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team plays the final match of an eight-game homestand when Kentucky visits Alumni Field tonight at 7:30. 
The eight game stretch started on a negative note for the Irish as they fell to 1-3-1 after five games, but a victory against Wisconsin, followed by back-to back wins over Loyola and Cincinnati place Notre Dame in a position to finish the set above .500. 
The odds of that seem high with a Wildcat team in its first year of existence facing the 15th-ranked Irish. The last time Notre Dame faced a program in its inaugural year was the Loyola contest last Wednesday, an 11-0 blowout. 
Kentucky appears to be more respectable than the Ramblers, with a 5­5-1 record. The one tie came against Michigan State who fell to Notre Dame 4-0. 
The youthful Kentucky team is led by freshman midfielder Cheryl Shimovetz with 13 points. Shimovetz is the lone of­fensive threat amidst a team who's concentration is primarily defense. 
"They haven't given up a lot of goals," said Irish freshman Michelle McCarthy. 
see PIRATES/ page 11 ~_______ __ 4
se_e_s_occ_E_RJ_P_a_g_e_1--' 







