-----------------------., 

~.Jl4iit

.ge,. 
. t%1-­

lt41·1992 

eObserver
HSQUICENJENNIAL 
samt Mary~ College 
NOTRE DAME•INOIANA 

VOL. XXIV NO. 131 TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Boris Yeltsin's cabinet submits resignation 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Cabinet of President Boris Yeltsin submitted its resignation en masse Monday, telling a com­bative parliament that aban­doning free market reforms could heighten inflation and bloGk Russia's entry into the world marketplace. 
Yeltsin asked his ministers to continue working a few days through the end of the parlia­ment session, when he will de­cide whether to accept their resignations, Deputy Premier Yegor Gaidar said. 
The Cabinet's departure could create the worst governmental crisis since the Soviet collapse in December. The ministers had been threatening to quit to protest parliament's vote Saturday to demand changes in Yeltsin's economic reforms. 
Several legislators said they thought the resignations were a bluff, and Parliament Speaker Ruslan Khasbulatov addressed the ministers with such derision that they walked out of the 1,046-member Congress of People's Deputies. 
"Don't try to blackmail us. We are not afraid of anyone or anything," Khasbulatov told the ministers, drawing cheers from many lawmakers. 
"If you want to work, dear members of the government, you have everything that is nec­essary to your work," Khasbulatov added. 
Several lawmakers began chanting "Shame! Shame!" at the ministers in the front row of the vaulted parliament chamber in the Grand Kremlin Palace. Khasbulatov cut them off. 
"Don't," he barked. "There is no shame. These kids have just lost their heads," he said, re­ferring to the Cabinet. 
Students at Saint Mary's choose living environments 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
News Writer 
With the shared-single rooms experiment conducted in Regina South this year, and the upcoming conversion of McCandless to a card-ex honor parietal system, Saint Mary's students will now have choices in their living environments. 
"My hope, and the hope of the Residence Life. staff is that residents feel they have control over their life and their living situations," said Mary Kelleher, Director of Residence Life. "The women here are mature and responsible, and they deserve respect. Together they can decide the direction of residence life." 
The concept of the shared singles (three single size rooms shared between two students) and the honor parietal system in Regina South, which was implemented at the beginning of this academic year, was to give students a choice, according to Kelleher. 
"If there is one thing about Saint Mary's seniors, they want singles and independence," said Kelleher. "We had the space in Regina South, and decided to try to make it like Augusta Hall, which has always been popular with juniors and seniors." 
The overall reaction to the change in Regina South has been positive, according to Chris Pugliese, the community developer in Regina South. 
"The student reaction has overall been positive," said Pugliese. "Students have gained more sense of independence. There have been some problems with parietal violations that we need to iron out for next year, but overall the change has been positive." 
With the success of the experiment in Regina South, the Residence Life staff has chosen to implement an honor parietal system and a card-ex system for next year in McCandless Hall. The experiment in McCandless will not be limited to only upperclassmen as Regina South was, said Kelleher. 
"The change in McCandless will again give students another option," said Kelleher. 
According to Chrissy Britt, a freshman who will be living in McCandless next year, "Parietals was an extra incentive. It won't be such a hassle to have a male friend come over and have to worry about having him leave an ID at the front desk." 

M'8ei*'OO 

Boris Yeltsin, shown here addressing the Supreme Soviet in 19~0, is now faces with the impending resigna­tion of his cabinet. 
Off-campus Saint Mary's students receive smaller aid packages 

By MARA DIVIS 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students choos­ing to live off-campus in for the 1992-93 school year will receive less financial aid than students choosing to live on campus, according to Mary Nucciarone, Director of Financial Aid. 
Off-campus students have al­ways been awarded smaller fi­nancial aid packages than stu­dents residing on-campus, Nucciarone said. She added that this policy, based on the fact that off-campus students have different needs requiring different amounts of aid, has always been the College's pol­icy. 
"There are different budgets for different students," she said. "The grant assistance to students choosing to live off­campus is different from the award package given to a stu­dent opting to stay on campus." 
She said that since on-cam­pus students must pay for col­lege services such as room and board in addition to tuition and fees, they receive more aid than the students who do not take make use of such services. 
Although this policy has al­ways been in place at the col­lege, the issue became promi­nent this school year because of student concerns about financial aid in relation to deciding to move off campus, Nucciarone said. 
According to Vice President of Fiscal Affairs, Dan Osberger, not as many students expressed interest in moving off-campus last year, and, as a result, the office of financial aid held a presentation to explain the college's financial aid policy. 
"A year ago, we didn't have as many students ask about students moving off -campus," he said. "We said the package is different, that the way you develop budgets is different." 
As a result of the concerns and questions, in February President William Hickey wrote a letter to the parents of all students clarifying the college's policy, Nucciarone said. 
In response to the fact that 30% of the current senior class lives off campus, Hickey ex­plained in his letter that the college encourages every Saint Mary's student to live on-cam­pus. 

" ... The out-of-classroom ex­periences that students derive from a residential campus be­come the foundation for a ca­reer networking and friend­ships that will be valued for a lifetime after graduation," he said. "For this reason, we en­courage every Saint Mary's student to live on-campus." 
Further, Hickey said that the process for aid awarding is complex. For example, a resi­dential student with a fmancial need of $10,000 may get up to $5,000 in gift aid, he said. The same student living off-campus would receive only $2,800 in gift aid, he said. 
"The College's award process gives preference to students choosing to reside on campus," Hickey said. "This preference reflects both our firm commitment to the residential experience as well as the fact that we do not use institutional funds to help subsidize off-campus housing costs." 
Student Senate supports study days before finals 
The Senate also voted to By CARRIE KINSELLA extend support to the ND News Writer wrestling team. The resolution, 
which was submitted by O'Neill 
Student Body President Greg and HPC Co-Chair Jason Coyle, Butrus and Vice-President criticized the abrupt Molly O'Neill's plan to initiate termination of the program two study days before finals "without consultation with, or was discussed at the 1992-93 forewarning to, the coaching Student Senate's first formal staff and athletes." meeting Monday. A Student Body budget of 
A resolution supporting $400,000 for 1992-93 was Thursday and Friday as study passed. The contingency fund, days will be discussed on April 22 by the Academic Council. see SENATE I page 6 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
otre Dame's 
latest fall 

from grace 
From the arrogant new emphasis on research to an obnoxious deal with NBC, Notre Dame is slowly losing its grace. 
The humble yet transcendent values the University grew from are 

becoming ghosts in the  JOE MOODY  
woodwork. howling in the  Viewpoint Editor  
past. 

There is a new Notre:________ Dame emerging, ready for a P.C. New World Order based on economic gain. 
The most recent chapter of Our Lady's fall from virtue ocurred within the athletic de­partment. Last Friday, Notre Dame dropped its wrestling program. 
In older days, the program may have been dropped if no one wanted to wrestle or no one wanted to coach. 
But the new Notre Dame dropped the program because it "has not translated into the fan interest we might have hoped for," said athletic director, Dick Rosenthal, in a press release issued Friday. 
Another reason he cited was that "wrestling is sponsored by only 40 percent of the Division One schools in this country." 
Since when does popularity and "fitting in" with number one have to do with the spiritual emphasis this school was inspired by? 
The wrestling coaches were shocked and "greatly upset." One coach was left unemployed with a family. Many of the players have expressed similar feelings of hurt. 
The University originally integrated sports into its learning program as character building outlets of discipline and skill, furthering the development of the whole human. 
When did our arenas for athletic activity ehange to dens for profiteering scams? 
"Ultimately, we feel the funds allocated to wrestling can better be directed towards programs that will more directly impact a larger portion of the student body and university community," Rosenthal said. 
So much for the portion of students and sta that have evolved and developed themselves throughout their lives in this now defunct sport. 
The bottom line is that wrestling was not profitable enough for the new Notre Dame. It wouldn't draw the kind of hyped attention those "Thunderdome" advertisements seek. 
The latest move by the University is more mud in the students' eyes. It indicates that it's no longer a question of what the University can give to the student, but what the University can get from the student. 
Disgusting. 

Notre Dame has always stood out because is went its own way. Whether that way was in the form of charity or throwing the first football, the way was usually good, though sometimes obscure, and seemed to nurture a deeper sort o success. 
We're now become a money making machine. 
And not only will Notre Dame's new "hip look" damage its unique character, it will continue to damage the nation's view of Catholicism as a whole, since the school's name and the faith are inseparable... 
At least, they used to be. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author. 
Today's Staff:  
Production:  Systems:  
Cynthia Ehrhardt  The Czar  
Melissa Cusack  Jon Halloran  
News:  Harry Zembillas  
Frank Rivera  Lab Tech:  
Jennifer Habrych  Pat McHugh  
Sports:  Viewpoint:  
Rich Szabo  Pat Moran  
Business:  Accent:  
Susan Marx  Pat Moran  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
-----.-­
City H L .,, 
Anchorage 
28 11 Athens 63 50 Bogota 72 48 Boston 45 31 Cairo 79 59 Chicago 43 34 Cleveland 43 29 Dallas 83 61 Denver 83 44 Detroit 40 28 Indianapolis 56 38 Jerusalem 68 50 London 55 41 Madrid 73 43 Minneapolis 40 30 Moscow 39 28 Nashville 77 43 New York 5t 31 Paris 57 37 Philadelphia 52 34 Rome 70 40 San Francisco 68 53 South Bend 41 31 Tokyo 6t 41 Washington, D.C. 54 38 

Pr85Surs 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Bank ma~ aid Soviet defense industry 
•BUDAP ST, Hungary-Governors of an interna­tional bank created to help rebuild former Communist economies on Monday agreed to consider giving the bank a role in converting the former Soviet Union's defense industry. A plan approved by the 55-member Board of Governors of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will examine ways to retool the Soviet military complex for civilian purposes. It also will look at how the bank could help make moribund state businesses profitable. Both ideas are opposed by the United States, the year-old bank's largest shareholder with 10 percent of its $12.5 billion in capital. 
• NATIONAL 
Smart drinks promoted in many bars 
•NEW YORK -Alcohol, the great social lubricant, no longer is invited to some bars and parties these days. Instead, so-called smart drinks, often brightly colored fruit cocktails, have replaced it as the focal point in a number of social settings. The smart drinks are sometimes promoted as increasing awareness and, for drug users, increasing the sensations of a drug trip. The drinks themselves, however, do not get a person high like illegal drugs such as Ecstasy or LSD. Smart drink enthusiasts go to great pains to pooh-pooh alcohol as a depressant that makes the brain fuzzy. 
OF INTEREST . 
•cultural 
Awareness Week at Saint Mary's continues today as Economics Lecturer Ravi Parashar speaks on "Embracing the World at 12:15 p.m. in Haggar Parlor. Tonight's activities will also include "Soul Food Night" in the dining hall. 

•NDCIBD 
Marketing Division will have its last meeting of the year at 6 p.m. in the ISO Lounge of LaFortune. 

•Arts 
and Letters Business Society proudly welcomes Arthur Decio, Chairman of the Board and 


C.E.O. of Skyline Corporation, Elkhart. The meeting will be at 7 p.m. in the Foster Room of LaFortune. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/Aprill3 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 4"-­
173.88 million 224.16 '"ill" .8 S&P COMPOSITE 406.08 .. 1.70 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,269.90 it 14.5 

PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD-{} $1.90 to $339.20/oz 
SILVER-(} 1.5¢ to $4.093/oz 

Man takes life after his son's suicide 
•GREENFIELD CENTER, N.Y -Three weeks after his 16-year-old son Ted shot and killed himself, Eugene Arnold told police he was so despondent he wanted to join him. As a deputy watched last week, Arnold put a shotgun barrel to his own stomach and pulled the trigger. The suicides stunned residents of this rural village of 500 about 30 miles north of Albany. "I guess the whole thing was just too much for him," Dolphin said of Eugene Arnold, 37. "I guess everything came down on him just like thunder." Early on March 20, Ted Arnold went to a flagpole on the campus of Saratoga Junior-Senior High School, where he was a sophomore. Then he put a .22-caliber rifle to his chin and fired. Ted Arnold's suicide was apparently the last straw for his father, said his mother-in-law Mary Carpenter. 
CAMPUS 

Observer staff wins awards 
•NOTRE 
DAME, lnd.·Three Observer staff members were honored yesterday in the Columbia Scholastic Press Association's 9th Annual Gold Circle Awards program. Brenden Regan, former graphics editor, won second place in the category of color art/illustration and a certificate of merit for an informational graphic. Kelley Tuthill, 1991-92 Observer editor-in-chief, received a certificate of merit for a personality profile. Former illustrator Jake Frost received a certificate of merit for an arVillustration. The program is the largest awards competition for individual achievement for high school and college student writers, editors, designers and photographers, attracting 11,437 entries. 

•christmas 
In April Reflection scheduled for 7 p.m. in the Keenan chapel has been cancelled. 

•Lenten 
Penance Service will take place at 10 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, Most Rev. John D'Arcy, Bishop of Fort Wayne/South Bend, will preside. 

•Applications 
for 1992-93 Dome section editors, photographers, and general staff are available in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune. They are due on Thursday, April 23. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1828: The first edition of Noah Webster's "American Dictionary of the English Language" was published. 

• 
In 1865: President Abraham Lincoln was fatally shot by John Wilkes Booth at Ford's Theater in Washington. 

• 
In 1912: The RMS Titanic ran into an iceberg in the North Atlantic and began sinking. 

• 
In 1931: King Alfonso XIII of Spain went into exile, and the Spanish Republic was proclaimed. 

• 
In 1981: The first test flight of America's first operational space shuttle, the Columbia, ended successfully at Edwards Air Force Base in California. 

• 
In 1991: The final withdrawal of American combat troops from southern Iraq began. 


Tuesday, April 14, 1992 The Observer page 3 
O'Meara forms group
. 

to find Kroc director 
By MIKE DeFRANCO News Writer 
University Provost Timothy O'Meara recently announced the formation of a search committee to select a new di­rector for the Kroc Institute of Peace Studies. 
This committee, chaired by O'Meara, will include five University faculty members: Barbara Fick, associate pro­fessor of law; Paul Kenney, professor of physics; Scott Mainwaring, associate profes­sor of government; John Van Engen, professor of history and Conway director of the Medieval Institute; and Arvind Varma, Schmitt Professor of chemical engineering. 
John Attanasio, the current director, will leave Notre Dame on June 30 to become dean of the St. Louis University Law School. 
According to O'Meara, the committee's first step will be a discussion concerning the di­rection of the Institute. "The last few years have been spent establishing the Institute," he said. 
However, said O'Meara, now that it has been established, the time has come to move on. 
Therefore, the committee must decide whether the pre­sent "hot spots" approach of studying problems as they oc­cur should continue, or if a more scholarly direction of studying what it is that makes people fight will be instituted, according to O'Meara. It is also possible that a combination of these two approaches will be desired. 
Whatever the result of this discussion, O'Meara noted a few qualities which will be re­quired in the incoming di­rector. The person must be able to bring a blend of scholarly competence, ad­ministrative skill and fund raising abilities to the direc­
see KROC/ page 6 

TWO OPERAS IN ONE EVENING 
Dido and Aeneas The Impresario
IlriY IIlOOlll'lY IP!IJ[pOOIJ!l IlJ'iY m'o & ~ 
Tickets: 

Garry Grice, Director 
Wednesday and Thursday April15 and 16, 1992 8:00p.m. 
Washington Hall 
LaFortune Student Center Box Office 
$6-Adults, $4-Students/Senior Citizens 
Phone: 239-8128 
Columnist Anderson blames Fidel Castro for the assassination of John Kennedy 
By MAURA HOGAN News Writer 
Renowned Washington columnist Jack Anderson pointed Monday to Fidel Castro, not the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) as hypothesized in Oliver Stone's movie "JFK," as the mastermind behind John Kennedy's assassination. 
Anderson arrived at this theory after talkillg to mobsters Johnny Roselli and Joe Scheiden and CIA hitman William Harvey, whom Anderson termed, "the coldest man you ever met in your life," he said in a lecture on the sub­ject, 
Anderson also quoted "other stories, other circumstances," which he said he could not re­veal. 
The story began, Anderson said, in August of 1959, when CIA chief Alan Dulles an­nounced what Anderson termed "a chilling plan for liquidation of Fidel Castro" in order to fa­cilitate the imminent Bay of Pigs invasion. 
Inheriting this Executive Action Plan when his brother appointed him to CIA chief in 1960, Robert Kennedy recruited the mafia as CIA hitmen, ac­cording to Anderson. 
Robert predicted that the mafia was already peeved at 
Castro's recent move to close their Cuban casinos, and that they were most likely the "best 
killers  in  Havana,"  said  
Anderson.  
The  plan backfired,  said  

Anderson, when Santos Tropicana, the "Godfather of Havana," leaked the details of the assassination plot to Castro in retaliation to President Kennedy's harsh crackdown on mob activities. 
In a move that went unno­ticed by American media, "Castro announced, 'Two can play at that game. If the CIA continues (their assassination plans), U.S. leaders will not be safe,"' Anderson said. 
According to Anderson, when Castro learned that the CIA was persisting in its assination at­tempts, he, "in perfect Latin irony," hired Santos Tropicana on September 13, 1963 to as­sassinate John Kennedy during his November visit to Dallas. 
According to Anderson's mafia sources, Tropicana "sent three Cuban sharp-shooters to Dallas," and, in perfect mafia fashion, "set up Lee Harvey Oswald as a patsy," or a cover­up. 
Oswald, according to Anderson, represented the per­fect "patsy." He was "neurotic, a loner, and a misfit." He had been a Marine sharpshooter 

".•.engaging street energy and plenty of humor." 
Are You 
Cumin' 
or What? 
Cinema at the Snlte 
-TUESDAY 9:30 


Lenten Penance Service Tuesday, April 14, 1992 
10:00pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Most Rev. John M. D'Arcy, Bishop of Fort Waynt/South Bmd, 
Opportunity for individual confession following the service. 
C[MPUS

MINISTRY 
Presider 

and had at one point defected to the Soviet Union. 
Oswald had lived in New Orleans with his uncle, a low member of Carlos Marcello's mafia, and had been overheard by "a reliable source in the Cuban embassy" speaking on the phone about an assassina­tion, Anderson said. 
Anderson's mafia sources confirmed that Tropicana hired an Oswald double to inquire about guns on numerous occa­sions at various gun shops. It is possible, Anderson believes, that it was this double who many witnesses swear they saw at the sixth floor Book Depository window as shots rang out. 
Anderson also noted that, in the footage of the assassination, the witnesses standing "between the presidential limousine and the grassy knoll fell to the ground as if shots rang out from behind the grassy knoll." 
The first person to climb the hill, a railroad employee, found "fresh footprints and cigarette stubs" as if someone had been waiting there for a while for the president to pass by, said Anderson. 
Anderson denied that the per­son behind the hill could have been an ordinary spectator, asking why an eager citizen would hide "behind a clump of bushes and trees" to view the President. 
According to his mafia sources, Anderson said, Tropicana planned to immedi­ately assassinate Oswald after Kennedy's death and make it appear as if Oswald were shot by "an irate citizen who did it out of grief and love for the fallen President." 
Yet, according to Anderson, Jack Ruby, Oswald's assassin, was a hoodlum and a member of Sam Giancona's mafia and was known to hate President Kennedy. Similarly, Anderson said he found it extremely co­incidental that Ruby would be present when Dallas police ap­prehended Oswald within a small Dallas movie theater. 
Anderson quoted George McBundy, national security ad­visor after Kennedy's death, as advising President Lyndon B. Johnson (LBJ) to publicly ac-
see JFKI page 6 

Houses for Rent9Z-93 
S s-6 Bedroom Fully Furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers 


287·4989 
Save S2so.oo with this AD* *new renters only 
r-----------------------~-~------------------------­
The Observer 

page 4 Tuesday, April 14, 1992 
Students hear lectures discussing cultures 
By KATIE O'CONNOR 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students were exposed to the Indian and African-American cultures that are present but not integrated into campus activity through two speakers from these cul­tures. 
Last night's lecture, "Family Photos: Images of Ou.r People" featun~d Manini Samarth, of the English Department and Patricia Washington, Director of Minority International and Non­Traditional Students (MINT). 
Samarth prHsented portions of three films focusing on the contrast of Indian woman against "the ideal woman" in the United States. The Indian women are depicted primarily through art films and commer­cial einema which have been in­fluenced by western culture. 
Heferring to the films, Samarth described "the ideal is purity combined with vampish­ness." 
Covert sexuality and muted sensuality were among the topics of discussion. These elements combined create an 
image of a woman who consid­ers giving herself completely to men. 
The attendants of the lecture came to realize that Indian women in the film differ in many ways from women in our society. This may be because "the notion of beauty is culture dependent," according to Samarth. 
Washington, discussed the development of rap music as an expression of the African­American culture. The level of rap music known to the public today has developed over many years. African-Americans have used their heritage to establish this sensual. suggestive mate­rial. 
"They speak of the violence inflicted upon themselves and their world in hard edged, cold lyrics," said Washington. "This is definitely music with a mes­sage." 
The questioning of what is ideal surfaces while looking at music videos. Women are dis­played as fit. fair. with long hair and wearing minimal clothing. 
see CULTURE/ page 6 




Sexual assault expert Tropp discusses Tyson rape case 
By ALICIA REALE 
Assistant News Editor 
Natalie Tropp, a sexual as· sault expert, said her presence at the Mike Tyson trial re­minded people of the impor­tance of the issue of rape. 
"As soon as I heard Tyson was indicted I knew the media would be pouring in," said Tropp of the Julian counseling center in Indianapolis, media consultant in the Mike Tyson trial, 
"It was important that some­one with knowledge of sexual assault be there so that the media could not ignore the is­sue of rape," she said. "Otherwise they might have covered it as a news story or simply sports." 
"This was new to all of us," she said, because Indianapolis had never had a celebrity trial before. 
Because Indiana has a state law prohibiting the televising of rape trials only the media and a few judges were allowed in a viewing room to watch the en­tire trial. 

Tropp said it was important for her to be in the room. 
"Just my being there re­minded people of the issue of rape," she said. Reporters started to come forward to hear her expertise and to inter­view her. 
She is presently giving many lectures. educating others about rape and the Tyson trial because "the whole thing (the trial) is a mystery to people. This is an opportunity to edu­cate people about rape," Tropp said. 
"I felt like I had to listen to virtually every word because anything could be the thing that changed the mind of the jury," she said. 
In rape cases the state has the burden of having to prove the guilt of the defendant be­yond a reasonable doubt. 
"Acquaintance rape cases turn into 'he said, she said' cases," Tropp said. The state had an unusually strong case and Desiree Williams was a very consistent witness, ac­cording to Tropp. 
People thought Williams fall­ure to cry was unusual, according to Tropp. She said that Williams had simply begun to heal. 
She related many facts about the case which the rest of the population, unable to witness the trial, was unaware of. 
"Tyson really dug his own grave by taking the stand," said Tropp. "HH took a risk and it did not really pay off." 
"The verdict was not a sur­prisH, the prosecution had a very strong case," said Tropp. 
She said Williams' frhmds say this has been a painful experi­Hnce for her. 
"PeopiH tHnd to blame the victim and say she implied consent by being with him," Tropp said. She compared rape with other crimes. "If my house were burglarized no one would ask why I made my belongings available. If I am raped why am I asked why I made my genitals available." She com­pared it to being blamed for having bodies that are raped. 
Tropp said she does not like 
see TROPP/ page 6 





an1pus inistry... 
...Considerations 
T e Best News 

Compared to the truly First Class news that Christians will 
proclaim this weekend, everything else we pay attention to is 
pretty much like hanging around somewhere back in Coach. 
Did you know that the Love that Moves the Sun and the Stars does it all for you and me? Have you heard that the Dark Abyss of Death, whose fearful shadow shapes all our lives and who drives us all to hide from Stalking Truth with skin creams and hair-restoration schemes-have you heard that this Beloved 
Death really hath no sting? 
It can take some time to catch on to this important announcement. 
Lent is a time for catching on, for getting ready for the Easter story. It is a time to recommit ourselves to what we announce to the world by being baptized. The hope is to give forty days of continual attention to the quality of our lives and to our need for real growth, to know ourselves more honestly and to build our lives more completely in the pattern of the life of Jesus. The trouble is that just a few days after Lent begins here on campus, off we go on Spring Break, to some exotic location where the last thing we want to notice is the struggles of life, death, and new life, and the biggest fear we have is of peeling skin. 
This week is Holy Week-the end of Lent, and the celebration of the Paschal Mystery in the ancient rituals called The Triduum. If your classes go too late on Thursday, or you have to drive too far on Friday, you can lose half this holy time on the highway. That would be a crime, because these are the days that teach. We should really find time to listen and to pray. 
Holy Thursday remembers how the Lord desired to spend time with His disciples, to teach them one last time, and give them one last gift to sustain them when He was gone. All are called to the table. All are bound in one holy family. All will be sustained by one holy meal. Thus to teach the power and the purpose of the family, and of the meal, Jesus takes off His cloak, wraps Himself with a towel, and goes to His knees in a poetic sign of the fullness of His call, the call to humble service of others. 

Faithful, yet doubt-filled men and women by the millions will kneel and kiss the holy wood, the place where God took their pain and made it God's own. Years of loneliness, years of pain and suffering, years of frustrated struggle for dignity and justice will be brought to the Cross with a kiss. The procession of pain seems endless, the power of evil undaunted -year after year of war and famine and fear -the same people always in the line. And yet they know why they come, they know their only hope. 
On Saturday night and Sunday, that hope is loudly proclaimed. A new light conquers the darkness. A happy fault is the cause for Redemption. The Easter Proclamation says "This is the night when Jesus Christ broke the chains of death and rose triumphant from the grave ...The power of this holy night dispels all evil, washes guilt away, restores lost innocence, brings mourners joy: it casts out hatred, brings us peace, and humbles earthly pride." With candle and song, with fire and water, with white robes and faith-filled new members alive in their midst, the followers of Jesus will break bread together and share another cup of wine and shout their First Class News aloud-that death holds no fear for us, for we are bound for Glory. 
It'd be crummy if the unfortunate academic schedule kept us from hearing clearly this Good News, or if other secondary concerns distracted us from the power of this proclamation. 
The Liturgy points us directly to our hope and to our joy. The Lord is alive and we are free. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 

oly Thursday  April 16  5:00pm  Evening Mass of the Lord's Supper  
ood Friday  April 17  3:00pm  Celebration of the Lord's Passion  
oly Saturday  April 18  9:00pm  The Paschal Vigil  

for other campus liturgies, consult the posted schedules) 
reverence. 
The Observer 

Tuesday, April 14, 1992 
page 5 


Roemer discusses home, Haegel lectures on life after graduation 
heroes and political hopes 
By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH Assistant News Editor 
The Catholic values that were instilled in Congressman Tim Roemer during his youth have followed him in his political ca­reer, said Roemer addressing students in St. Edward's Hall lounge last night. 
During his informal lec­ture/discussion titled "My Hopes as a Catholic in National Politics," Roemer spoke on his home, heroes and hopes in politics in light of his Catholic faith. 
As one who has been baptized as a Catholic, educated in Catholic schools, and at times challenged his Catholic beliefs Roemer said he is Catholic "not just through choice, but through love." 
Although Roemer explained that he was raised in "disciplinarian, strict" Catholic environment, during his college years at the University of San Diego and then later as a grad­uate student at Notre Dame, he said that he often underwent the same struggles with faith that face college students today. Still, he said that during this time he became involved in ac­' tivities that "had an effect on people" and helped organize 
programs like the Grace Hall 
run from campus through 
South Bend neighborhoods and 
the Big Brother/Big Sister pro­
gram. 
"I wanted to help others on 
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, 
Thursday, Friday, 
Saturday-not just deal with 
what happened on Sunday," he 
said. 
Reinforced by heros such as his father, his mother, and Senator Robert Kennedy, Roemer's drive to be a positive influence on others has contin­ued during his first term in the House of Representatives, he said. 
By supporting programs in­cluding Just Life, a pro-life or­ganization that helps address issues of pre-and postnatal care, and Headstart, and en­couraging governmental re­forms, Roemer said he has been able to integrate his Catholic beliefs into his policy. 
In addition, Roemer called on college students, especially Notre Dame students, to ac­tiv-ely and intelligently partici­pate in the government. 
"Notre Dame people make the greatest public servants," he added, "because they are not just taught about the bottom line, but ethics, caring and compassion." 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program 
lll


Information Meeting With 
Sr. Mary Aquin O'Neill, R.S.M. Former Director, Jerusalem Program 
Tuesday, April 14, 1992 7:00P.M. 1 05A O'Shaughnessy 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 
By KENYA JOHNSON News Writer 
Former Notre Dame co-vale­dictorian Nancy Marie Haegel, returned to campus to discuss and answer questions concern­ing the future of graduating ND engineers. 
Haegel, who graduated in 1981, presented "Eureka Moments on Holy Ground: Engineering After Notre Dame." 


She is now an associate 
Nancy Marie Haegel

professor in the Material 
Science and Engineering de­she abides by in order to inte­partment at the University of grate her values in the engi­California Los Angeles (UCLA). neering work place. "I always 
Haegel explained that her try to listen to others," Haegel biggest challenge after gradu­said first. She explained that ating Notre Dame was integrat­listening is the "deepest sign of ing all aspects of her life into compassion". her work force. Haegel's "second rule to live 
"On that May day in 1981 by" is to be guided by her own 
when I delivered my com­value system. mencement address I articu­Her third and finally rule is lated the large disparity be­derived from the Gospels. 
tween the simple and hopeful "Jesus always tells us to not be prayer of our community here afraid," Haegel stated. "So I try and the discouraging complex­not to be." ity of the world in which we Haegel provided the simple were preparing to live and reason for teaching engineer­work," she said. ing. 
Haegellisted three main rules "It's what I call the 'eureka moments'. It's the discovery students have when they finally understand a concept or prob­lem," she explained. Haegel added that engineering for her was fun. 
One discouraging aspect in the engineering field for Haegel is the amount of women in the career. She stated that when she attended Notre Dame she had no female professors in­structing her engineer based courses. Even today Notre Dame's Engineering depart­ment only possesses two women professors. Haegel described a similar situation at UCLA. 
"Out of 140 engineering fac­ulty members at UCLA, six are women and only four of these six are tenured professors," Haegel stated. 
She said she is "happy and hopeful" about the upcoming increase of women engineers, but said the attitude has to change too. 
The lecture sponsored by Society of Women Engineers and the Center for Social Concerns. 

Money raised at annual pow-wow stolen 
By SANDY WIEGAND a.m. last Monday and found the Assistant News Editor front door frame cracked and her possessions strewn about 
Money raised by the Native the apartment. The burglar(s) American Student Organization had turned out the porch light, at its annual pow-wow April 4 and appeared to have kicked in was stolen from co-president the door, Yazzie said. LaVern Yazzie's apartment last In addition to the $2,219 be­week, Yazzie said. longing to the organization, 
Yazzie, a Notre Dame junior, about $210 in personal cash said she came home around 10 and a ring were also stolen, she said. Other valuable items were 
WANT TO TRY SOMETHING NEW? 


CM '9\[ CO!l(1( 

LaSalle X Cap'n' 
Cork 

LO'Ll?{_{jf£ 
TIRED OF THE SRNE OLD PLRCE? 
TUES. $ .50 DEALS & NO COVER WED.$ 1.00 JAMS-HOP ON STAGE TFIORs. $ 3.00 STUDENT 

NOTICE TO MAY GRADUATES 
Have you borrowed $$$ to finance your Notre Dame education? Ifyes, you must follow these instructions. 
As part of the graduation process, federal regulations REQUIRE all students who have borrowed from the Stafford Loan Program and the Supplemental Loan for Students (SLS) to attend an EXIT INTERVIEW before leaving the University. The exit interview will review your rights and responsibilities for repaying your loan(s), deferment options, and loan consolidation benefits. 
For your convenience, we have scheduled the following exit interview sessions: 
Monday, April 13th; Tuesday, April 14th; Wednesday, April 15th LaFortune, Notre Dame Room 
11:00-11:30 am  12:30-1:00 pm  
11:45-12:15 pm  1:15-1:45pm  
Wednesday, April 15th  Hesburgh Library, Auditorium  

6:30-7:00 pm 7: 15-7:45 pm 8:00-8:30 pm 
To prepare for the exit interview, bring the name of your lender(s) and the total amount of your Stafford and SLS borrowing while at Notre Dame. If you need assistance gathering this information, contact the Notre Dame Office of Financial Aid. Please allow one day for processing. 
left by the door as if the bur­glar(s) decided at the last minute not to take them. 
"The way they had come through my apartment seemed like they knew the (club's) money was here," Yazzie said. She said she reported the inci­dent to the South Bend Police. 
Police refused to give infor­mation by telephone. 

3:28 p.~: Notre Dame Security r~st~d Iii Birmingham, .Ala, resident charged him with criminal · outside the ROTC building. 
5:40 p.m. Notre Dame Security and Department t~eated an injured Grace resident at the Stepan basketball 
later transported him to St. 
Center. 

The Observer incorrectly identified two students in an article in yesterday's edition. Michael Drinane, 21, is a student at Notre Dame and Julie Garden, also 21, is a student at Saint Mary's. The Observer regrets the error. 
----,­
~­

page 6 The Observer Tuesday, April 14, 1992 
body parts, bouncing to the stand this music, culture explo­Judge Patricia Gifford clari­beat." This adds to the view of ration is essential," she said. fied this in the Tyson trial say­



Culture Tropp
"rap as a masculine form of ing there is no difference be­music." The lecture is the first in a tween rape that occurs on a
continued from page 4 continued from page 4 
three day cultural awareness date and another rape.
While the men in the videos The continuing expression series entitled "We are Family," 
appear in a variety of shades, the term date/acquaintance The lecture last night was
through music comes out as a sponsored by the MINT com­
sizes and tend to be covered 
reflection of the times. "Rap mittee of the Board of rape. "You don't call it date sponsored by SMC/ND CARE with clothing. 
music is an original African­Governance and Marriott Food murder and stranger murder," and SOS as part of Sexual 
She said "women become 
American art form. To under-Services. she said. Assault Awareness Month. 

Kroc 
continued from page 3 
torship. 

A strong ability to lead will also be needed as the director will be required to provide aca­demic and moral leadership for the Kroc Institute in the years to come, he said. 
The role of the director of the Kroc Institute is a complicated one, according to O'Meara. The director is responsible for guiding the Institute in such a way that it is able to reach it's potential in an often changing field. 
The person is also responsible for the quality of personnel appointed to the Institute and the general well-being of those who are already there, he said. The director also must create the Institute's budget and be willing to raise funds from in­dividual and corporate donors and foundations. 
O'Meara said that "The committee will be looking for the best qualified candidate ei­ther inside or outside the University." As a result, he said "The search could be brief or it could take a while." 
The committee must first de­cide whether to appoint an act­ing director after June 30 or solely to concentrate on finding a full-time director. · 
If they decide to first appoint an acting director, O'Meara said "The same requirements will be looked for, but they won't be as thorough." 
profit of $7,300. The Senate also discussed

Senate 

the formation of a seven-person Standing Committee on 
continued from page 1 

Undergraduate Education. A 
which is available for student senator, a class officer, programs not specifically two hall presidents, three mentioned in the budget, was student body appointees and 

Arrest 
continued from page 1 
He said that the police have come to the house two times the entire school year asking that the cars parked around the corner on Hollyhock Road be moved, but that was the extent of the complaints they have ever received from the police or neighbors since they have been there. 
Feirrell said that illegal 

selling of alcohol at the party occurred, as well. According to Feirrell, students had to pay to drink the beer at the party. 
Feirrell explained that selling or even distributing large quan­tities of alcohol is illegal without a permit. 
For a class D felony, Feirell said the seniors face up to ten years in jail or the state prison and a maximum of a $5,000 fine. 
"However, if the men have no previous criminal records, they could plea-bargain to have the sixth member of the Warren Commission represented "LBJ's ace in the hole," Anderson said. 
Years later, in an interview with Howard Smith, an ABC anchor. LBJ "spoke as if he were expressing a silent thought," according to Anderson, when he said, "'Kennedy tried to kill Castro but Castro got Kennedy first.'" 
Anderson's lecture was spon­sored by Notre Dame Student Government. 

responsible for JFK's death, the public would call for action against Fidel Castro, and Russia would press the button and take 40 million American lives." 
In Anderson's opinion, LBJ thought he was saving these 40 million lives by deciding to pub­licly endorse the Warren com­mission. 
Appointing former CIA chief Alan Dulles, who was aware of the entire CIA plot to assassi­nate Castro and its role in Kennedy's assination, as the felony charges reduced to a misdemeanor and most likely won't end up going to jail," Feirrel continued. 
Feirrel added that the maxi­mum fine for a misdemeanor is $1,000 and the jail sentence is one year or less. 
According to Grabs, neither he nor Gerdenich has a previ­ous criminal record and have already hired a lawyer to han­dle the case. A trial is sched­uled for April 20. 

increased from $10,000 last year to $12,000 this year. 
Business reports were presented by Matt Cenedella. The Irish Gardens showed a gain of $40.93 for the month. AdWorks lost $220.64 and ND Video lost $109.99. 
However, for the year-to-date, according to Cenedella, the Business Board has turned a 
two faculty members will be selected for the committee, which will address issues stemming from the Board of Trustees' "Back to Basics" report. 
Anyone interested in working on this committee should contact Student Government by Thursday. 
JFK 
continued from page 3 
accept Oswald as the assassin, causing the 30-year cover-up. 
According to Anderson, McBundy feared that, seven months after the Cuban Missile Crisis in which Kennedy had forced the Soviets to "take their pants down in public, were it revealed that Fidel Castro was 



Happy Easter and Have a Safe Break! -from the Observer Staff 
Please Stop Smoking. -Thank You. 



Graduate into your own car. 
Speaat ieatel *?tYt a-~U#Uted 7U~te tJ4/ 
8.65% :PR 
Maximum Term -60 months 
We'll even give you deferred payments until August 15, 1992 
(please bring an offer letter from your future employer and your acceptance letter). 
To help with your relocation, we also have: MasterCard 14.92%* APR $1 0 annual fee 
• Rates subject to change without notice. Members must meet qualifications. 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
(219) 239-6611 
Independent of the University 

Perennial Bestsellers At Little Professor 
Choose h-om our wide selection of books on 
spring planting. gardening. and landscaping. 
Receive afree seed packet with every 
gardening book purchase of 
$5 or more.* 
Ironwood Piau North • State Rolld Z3 at Ironwood South Rend • Z77-4488 • Mon . .Sat.: 10:00-9:00 • Sun.: 10:00-5:00 
-~----------------~-­



Viewpoint 
Tuesday, April 14, 1992 page 7 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager .••.....Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor ................•• Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor .•.......... Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager ...........••• Patrick Barth Photo Editor •........ :.Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ..Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor·in·Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Send my diploma in the mail 
Dear Editor: plishment from Monk Malloy does not take much imagination 
I am scheduled to receive my would be like Christ asking to envision the whining that Ph.D in the May Judas' advice on the most would occur if he were dying or commencement ceremony after heroic way to die. But what if he were a member of any seven long years of involvement clinches my decision not to par­minority group (racial, ethnic, with this university. ticipate in May commencement gendered, or sexual) during the 
As a former representative of is the knowledge that George past three regimes of privilege GLND/SMC, I have faced pa­Bush will be there. for white, non-gay, upper­tronizing and hypocritical ad­Once more this campus is to middle-class males. ministrators in their offices be the stage for Bush's photo I cannot in good conscience under the dome, been anony­opportunism during an election stand on the same platform mously harassed and gratu­year. This is a shameful selling with Monk Malloy and George itously accused of sexual mis­out of church to state, just like Bush, both of whom are more conduct by some of my more the one I protested (with Pax than willing to sell gay folks and neanderthalic students, faced Christi) four years ago. Here is PWAs down the river for the that harassment alone with no the George whose wimphood sake of preserving the status support from supervisors, had was redeemed by a media will­quo: the oppressive power subsequent teaching appoint­ing to broadcast a photo of him structures of patriarchy, com­ments in the Freshman Writing with his arm lovingly draped pulsory heterosexuality, and in­Program held up by spineless around a large gunbarrel stitutional J udeo-Christianity. and homophobic administra­(curious). Send my diploma through the tors. and all in the name of the Here is the George who curi­mail, preferably in a plain "Catholic" character of this ously objects to the political ac­brown wrapper. "University." tions of ACT UP and QUEER 
After all this, I had already NATION because of the stri­J. Michael Leger virtually decided that receiving dency of those actions. His ob­Off-campus any affirmation for my accom-jections are curious, because it April 9, 1992 
'Lurid' art out of place on 'Christian' campus 
Dear Editor: display appalling. Mr. Flynt is, sexual activity which has no · 
In Riley Hall of Art and of course, free to exhibit his art relevance to the stated themes Design, there is currently a in public museums and gal-of the artist. photographic exhibit entitled leries, but the nature of this Therefore I find it highly "Wetwork," by Robert Flynt, on display is completely incongru-unacceptable that the Art display. Upon viewing this ex-ent with the religious character Department should so promi­hibition, I was shocked and of-of the University. nently display such a lurid col­fended. The explicit and overt Furthermore, Mr. Flynt claims lection of photographs. Let the homoerotic nature of the work that his photographs are meant artist find a more suitable loca­is entirely inappropriate for to stimulate greater awareness tion for his work than a display at a Catholic university. of the AIDS epidemic, pre-Christian university. 
While I do not advocate the sumedly in the homosexual Jason Catania censorship of art, I find the community. I, however, see Flanner Hall University's sponsorship of this ~o;.:n~ly~a~g~ra;;;;,t;.:u;;;;,it,;,;o;.:u;.:s;..e,;,;x~h~i~b~it;;,io.;.;n;,;,.,;o;,;;f_____~:---~~1~7.;,,~1~99•2 

Group awakens NO to peril of Native American 

THANKS FOR 
CfJMING OV8R., 
5/f?. 50RJ<'f 
ABOUT7H/3 
5HOf?JNOlle&. 

NO PR08Wr10! THe BABY. 
I3UTWHAT 8.(}. ANDI 
f3R{){JGHT ae<EARGUING 
AU, TH/5 OVeR UHJSe.LAST 
ON? I NAM£ H/3 tWUW 
· HAVe ... 1 
Dear Editor: 
As Amnesty International Group #43 of Notre Dame cele­brated Indigenous Peoples' Days on April 8 and 9, few stu­dents took notice. As a mem­ber of Amnesty International, I believe that it is incumbent upon all people to become aware of indigenous peoples, the violations of their human rights, and the ignorance of which the United States is guilty in regard to this issue. 
Amnesty International is a worldwide human rights orga­nization which works on behalf of victims of human rights vio­lations around the world. It seeks the release of prisoners of conscience. It works for the fair and prompt trials for all political prisoners. 
It opposes torture and execu­tion of all prisoners. With over 30 years of experience and more than 1,100,000 members in over 150 countries and terri­tories, Amnesty International has become the representative for all people seeking interna­tional adherence of the 1948 United Nations' Universal Declaration on Human Rights. 
The indigenous peoples of the Americas are modern victims of human rights violations. Indigenous peoples are descen­dants of populations which originally inhabited the geo­graphical region to which the country belongs. They consider themselves distinct from other 
The 

More than 39 million native people inhabit the Americas; 2 million live within the United States. These native people are the victims of resettlement poli­cies, detention, torture, and re­pression because of economic interests and the struggle for land. 
The economic weakness of jndigenous peoples and their relatively small population dis­tribution make them suscepti­ble to large private landowners who, with the support of local authorities, freely violate the land or water rights of indige­nous communities. Without federal protection, indigenous peoples are defenseless. 
All citizens of the Western hemisphere are responsible for the overt discrimination inflict­ing indigenous peoples of the Americas. As a beacon of civil and human rights protection worldwide, the United States must become shamefully aware of the human rights violations within her own borders and throughout the continent. 
Native Americans have never been granted the dignity that they deserve as human beings. And although we, as Americans, are painfully aware of the gross mistreatment of the Native Americans in our na· tion's past, we must awaken ourselves to the injuries in­flicted upon indigenous peoples in the Americas in 1992. Let us all promise to actively uphold the human rights of all people, the civil and human rights that we expect for ourselves. 
Gregg Behr 
Co-President 
Amnesty International NO 
April 9, 1992 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
AN07HEN ITHIT tE-al& 
5HOUW JUST GeTMAR-5CXJN[)5 /?1!31), ANOt&THIM 7JlJ(E R£A50N­7H£ FATH&R'5 !.A~TNAM&, Aete... 
'Religions tend to disappear with man's good fortune.' 
Raymond Queneau 

Priorities disappear mingled with money: 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q, ND. IN 46556 
--------------~----------------~------------------~------~------------------------­

Viewpoint

page 8 Tuesday, April 14, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: to any permanent political set­
I am writing this letter in re­tlement along the lines of U.N. sponse to the political cartoon Security Council Resolutions printed in The Observer on Fri­242 and 338. day, April 3. The cartoon, enti­To listen to the Shamir gov­tled "Hun Silent. Run Deep", ernment, which accuses the implies that recent United Bush administration of taking States policies reflect some "the Arab line," one would be deep seated prejudiee towards inclined to believe that the cur­Isranl. rent position represents a shift 
The portrayal of President from previous policies; in fact, Bush and Secretary of State been turned away. plicitly force immigrants to set­Palestinians negotiate neither every U.S. administration since Baker, as commanders of a U­In a visit to this campus last tle in the occupied lands, cur­as an independent delegation, 1967 has opposed settlements Boat called "anti-Israel Bias," Thursday, Michael Shiloh, rent housing shortages in Is­nor over anything beyond an in­on the occupied lands in the firing a U-Loan Guarantee Can­deputy chief of mission at the rael, coupled with generous fi­terim settlement with limited West Bank and Gaza. cellation" torpedo at a ship Israeli embassy, explained that nancial subsidies to people who autonomy, these communities The Bush administration has carrying Hussian Jews seriously the exorbitant costs of settling choose to live there, create will continue to fall largely un­set forth compliance with long­distorts the facts of the situa­the new immigrants have strong economic incentives to­der Israeli control, and will standing U.N. resolutions as a tion. The author names the forced the Israeli government to ward continued expansion. In perpetuate the refusal to rec­condition for loan guarantees, 
boat carrying the Russians, the turn to the United States for the past year, the Housing Au­ognize any legitimate right to but this decision does not form 'Exodus', a reference to the assistance. If the United States thority under the direction of Palestinian self determination. a basis for the proposition set ship carrying 4500 Holocaust were to guarantee loans, Ariel Sharon has increased the In light of Mr. Shiloh's asser­forth by the cartoon, namely, 
survivors whkh, in 1947, in ac­putting aside a sum of several pace of settlements to the point tion that peace talks will last that United States policies have 
cordance with immigration hundred million dollars as a se­where, ever increasingly, this many years, even if one were to been anti-Israel. quotas into Palestine, was re­curity deposit against Israeli de facto annexation will be irre­accept the claim that occupied In fact, even as this dispute fused permission by the British default, Israel would be entitled versible. The 1991 budget in Is­lands are a legitimate bargain­between the Bush administra­to land at I laifa and was forced to receive bank loans at more rael allocated over a billion ing chip, this frenzied settle­tion and the Shamir govern­
to return to Europe. favorable interest rates. dollars to projects in the occu­ment activity, the attempt to ment creates tension between 
In my opinion. no anti-Israeli Ambassador Shiloh would try pied territories, including over present a fait accompli, will the governments, United States bias had any impact or rele­to have us believe that the two 13000 housing starts and eight also, in effect, remove this issue still provides between three and vance to the denial of loan policies should be mutually ex­new settlements. from the negotiating process. four billion dollars a year in guarantees. clusive, that the aid for the Additional land confiscations While the cartoon implies that foreign aid to Israel. 
Bather, the conflict between Hussians is strictly a from Palestinians, at triple the the Bush administration U­the two governments has re­"humanitarian" issue, while the rates of the previous year, now cancelled" these loan guaran­A much more plausible expla­sulted from the attempt to link settlements are a "political" is­mean that 65 percent of the tees because of an anti-Israeli nation for the refusal to guar­economic aid with adherence to sue that should be resolved in West Bank and 42 percent of bias, testimony before Congress antee loans would not invoke existing United Nations resolu­negotiations between Israel and Gaza have been brought under in February by Mr. Baker re­antilsraeli or pro-Arab bias, but tions. the Arab states. formal Israeli control. The facts veals otherwise. Baker stated might take into account the 
While the limited economic It is not at all dear to me how seem to indicate that the that the United States is not natural reevaluation of United capacity of Israel to absorb Ambassador Shiloh can hold Shamir government seeks the opposed to loan guarantees, States Middle East poliey in the immigrants has led many Bus­that these two practices must annexation of these areas, cre­but, in effect, the Israelis have wake of both the collapse of the sian Jews who want to emigrate not be linked. Some of the ating "segregated Palestinian to rank their priorities and Soviet Union and the Persian to postpone their departures, Hussian immigrants, are al­communities on the rest of the make a choice between such Gulf war. unlike the passengers of the ready settling in the occupied land (Sharon)." guarantees and continued set-· Exodus, the four hundred territories. While the current Given the restrictions imposed tlement in the occupied territo­Rob Stevenson thousand who, to this point, percentage is small, and the Is­on the current Middle East ries, a practice at odds with in­Morrissey Hall have chosen to leave have not raeli government does not ex-peace talks, in which the ternational law and an obstacle April7, 1992 
Middle East portrayal was 'inaccurate' Abortion debate perverts 
Dear Editor: West Bank, Gaza Strip, Golan proposed a two-state solution to I was quite disappointed to Heights, and East Jerusalem. the problem and the P.L.O's 
the real issues at hand 
read Ilarris Brumer's own dis­Israel continues this oppressive recognition of Israel's right to torted and historically inaccu­occupation in violation of UN exist. Dear Editor: ine or propose solutions to the rate account of the Arab-Israeli Resolutions 242 and 338, which In recent weeks, the abortion abortion issue. We should be conflict. (The Observer, April 7) call on Israel to leave these It is unfortunate that Mr. issue has become more per­marching for more funding to­Mr. Brumer should not try to Arab lands. Brumer has conveniently left verse. Pro-choice supporters ward birth-control research or "set the story straight" regard­these details out of his distorted want the freedom for legal free education and contracep­ing this issue until he gets all of I also find it interesting Mr. rendition of history. abortions and a woman's right tives for poor and low-income the facts correct and includes Brumer conveniently fails to to have control over her own women. all relevant information in his mention anything about Israel's In order to resolve this con­body and decisions. Pro-life Pharmaceutical companies biased account. bloody invasion of Lebanon in flict, one must understand the supporters believe in the sanc­should develop more effective 
1982 and its subsequent occu­entire problem, not just the se­tity of life which must be pro­and reliable birth-control 
First of all, Mr. Brumer fails pation of south Lebanon. Nor lective and often inaccurate ac­tected and thus oppose abor­products. Promoting abstinence to mention that the 1947 U.N. does Mr. Brumer mention any­counts that Mr. Brumer has tions. and sexual responsibility partition plan left the Arabs thing about the U.N. chosen to present. Such mis­Yet, each group has failed to between men and women with only 44% of Palestine, Resolutions that call Israel to representations only add to the examine the real problem--pre­should also be approached. The while they comprised 60% of end its occupation of Arab ignorance and confusion about venting unwanted pregnancies. list could go on. the population. lands. this issue. Family planning and sex educa­Let's come together and solve 
tion is essential for everyone. It the real issues. Maybe if we ex­
lie fails to mention that this Nor does Mr. Brumer make I suggest that Mr. Brumer is also critical for a nation that amine solutions we can prevent unfairness was the reason any reference to Israel's brutal enroll into the Contemporary has doubled in population unwanted pregnancies and the behind the Arab's disapproval oppression and human rights Middle East course taught by within little more than a half a killing of the unborn. of the plan. violations against the Professor Gaffney in order to century and for a world whose 
Palestinians, which have been learn the entire history of the resources are increasingly lesley Boehnen 
Mr. Brumer is inaccurate documented by the United conflict accurately. Until such strained by billions of people. lewis Hall when he describns the Arab ini­Nations, Middle East Watch, time, Mr. Brumer's biased and Neither side seems to exam-April 8, 1992 tiation of the 1967 Six-Day War and Amnesty International, one-sided accounts fail with Israel. On the contrary, as among others. miserably in "setting the story was the case with 1956 war. straight." Israel attacked Egypt first. Nor does Mr. Brumer make From this initial Israeli attack. any reference to Israel's disre­Pierre Nona the Six-Day War began and gard of the P.L.O's peace initia­Off-Campus Israel has illegally occupied the tive of November 1988 which April 8, 1992 

Rape survivor puts faith in God 
Dear Editor: drinker, and I remember a lot of tiona! healing of all the scars physical abuse, too. and hurts are hard to handle, 
After reading the various but I'm recovering. letters about rape survival in I have been going to a support the Mareh 26 edition of The group at our church for women The only thing I can tell you is Observer, I felt I had LO respond. who were abused as children to let God completely handle it, 
now for about two months and and eventually he will heal you 
You are sleeping, you do not want to believe 
I, too, am a survivor of sexual the support from other and anyone else who has ever 
You are sleeping, you do not want to believe 
abuse. My father sexually Christian women who have had gone through it. abused me his whole life, and I similar experiences is very recently had a flashback of an­helpful. My prayers are with you and I 
Submit letters to: 
other adult who had sexually want you to know God will al­

Viewpoint
abused me when I was five or The remembering of the ways be there for both of us. six years old. abuse and the pain of it are 
P.Q. aox Q easier to deal with than the Also A Survivor 

Notre Dame. IN 46556
My father was also a heavy emotional recovery. The emo-AprilS, 1992 

-~-----------~ -~,...--------.....------------­



Accent 
Tuesday, April 14, 1992 page 9 




Student's choice 

The Observer/Pat McHugh Assistant Professor Rev. Wilson Miscamble was awarded the Frank O'Malley Undergraduate Award. 
Rev. Wilson Miscamble given award honoring the 
importance of teaching 
By JIM BONALSKY 
Accent Writer 
The University of Notre Dame bestows many awards upon well-qualified, deserving people. 
These awards, such as honorary degrees and the recently-inaugurated Notre Dame Award (given to President and Mr.s. Carter in March), are rightfully given to individuals who demonstrate attitudes of good-will, determination, and self-sacrifice. While this recognition is well-deserved, one might note that it is rarely given to anyone who has had much personal contact with the students. 
Last Wednesday night, Rev. Wilson Miscamble became the first recipient of an award that has a great deal of significance to the Notre Dame student body. The Frank O'Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award, newly established by the student government and the alumni association to focus on the importance of teaching, was awarded to this associate history professor based on the quality of his work. 
What makes this unique is the fact that the actual "judges" of the winner were the students themselves. In fact, it was the undergraduates of this university who were asked to nominate and describe the teacher they thought was the best on campus. After all the ballots were collected, a committee completely comprised of students read them all and chose a winner based on the comments about them. 
Miscamble was chosen from among a pool of nominees that encompassed all the colleges on campus, based on the "enthusiasm for teaching that he demonstrates both in and out of the classroom," according to Karen Stohr, the student government chief-of-staff. Among the many qualities mentioned in the ballots was his "personal touch ... by the third week he knew every person's name." 

Miscamble, an Australian native, came to Notre Dame in 1976 and received his doctorate in 1980. He was ordained a priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1988. His main research interest is 20th century U.S. foreign policy, which is also what he teaches. 
"I was deeply honored by the award," Miscamble said, "and I tried to say that at the ceremony. Teaching is very impor­tant to my ministry and I am deeply committed to it." 
When asked what he thinks the secret of his success is, the Zahm Hall resident replied with a laugh, "Maybe its my accent. Actually I try to engage the students and ask them to be committed to the work as well. We all learn together. I've learned a great deal from my students." 
Francis "Frank" O'Malley was a very popular professor at Notre Dame. He died in 197 4 after serving as a member of the English department for 42 years. He was known for his explorations of the relationship between religious belief and literary imagination. For thirty years, his "Modern Catholic Writers" course was one of the most popular classes at the university. 
According to Greg Butrus, Student Body President, a plaque will be put up in LaFortune, naming the current, and all future winners of the award. It will be given out annually from now on. 

Michelle Shocked travels with a new southern sound 

By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Music Critic 
Through her first few albums, Michelle Shocked has gone down a few musical roads. She has been a folkie and a swinger, and with her new album, Arkansas Traveler, Shocked takes traditional tunes of the American South and sets them to her own stories. 
Many of the songs of Arkansas Traveler have roots in blackface minstrels, whose history has been left behind with the civil rights movement. But Shocked has revived much of their music with this album, and traveled much of the world to do it. The result is an album which belongs on the stereo of a car driving down the kudzu­flanked roads of a summer in the South. 
But Arkansas Traveler was recorded on the road from Sydney to Dublin and a dozen American locations in between, with several impressive musi­cians helping out at each stop. 
Near St. Louis, where Shocked put down "Shaking 
Hands (Soldier's Joy)" on a boat in the Mississippi River, Uncle Tupelo played with her, and Hothouse Flowers lent their support when Shocked came to Ireland for the recording of "Over the Waterfall." Shocked's own all-star band marks a new milestone in her departure from the stark sound of an acoustic guitar and her voice, but her choice of collaborators does not impersonalize her music. 
The album never loses the sound of a live performance, despite the high standards of production which Shocked now employs. She has come a long way since the days when her folk debut, The Texas Campfire Tapes, was recorded on a portable tape deck. 
But Arkansas Traveler's southern drawl comes across as clearly as Shocked's voice, which has always given her reason to stand out from the crowd. 
The album starts off on the road with "33 RPM Soul," which could easily be played at Heartland for the Garth-loving 
Michelle Shocked has jost reclused her new album, Arkansas Travel, which features sounds of the American South. 
folk updated-a Woody Guthrie Shocked through several song played by the innovative, rounds with her creative barri­creative Shocked. She plays ers. After the investigation she mandolin alongside her father, gives to blackface minstrelsy Dollar Bill, whose inspiration with Arkansas Traveler, the lis­started her in music. tener must wonder where those 
So far, that inspiration has led barriers lie. 
~--------~----~-~--------~----~-------~ --~­

Accent

Page 10 Tuesday, April 14, 1992 


and outside of the South Bend 


Basix introduces Velcro-jumping 
By PAIGE SMORON 
Accent Writer 
It takes a certain amount of courage. It takes a certain amount of talent. But above all. it takes a certain amount of-stickiness. 
Velcro-jumping is here. 
Every Thursday, Friday, and Saturday nights, visitors to the Basix nightclub are afforded the opportunity to hurl them­selves at great speed towards a giant board of Velcro. There, they stick. And then they are carefully peeled down. 
While it's not exactly sweeping the nation-Basix owner Bill Watkins says that his is the only board he is aware of in the Midwest-Velcro-jumping has arrived in the greater Michiana area. 
Inspired by David Letterman's historic late-nite leap, Velcro-jumping has be­come a bonafide sport-or at least a bonafide fad. Do-it-yourself Velcro­jumping kits became available for upwards of $3,000, but "...we said 'screw that-we'll build it ourselves,"' according to Jack, a Velcro Spotter. 
Spotters are an integral part of the sport-nearly as important as the springboard. These are the men who will transform a possible head-on collision into a majestic aerial flip. 
Their duties include uplifting customers, drumming up apprehensive jumpers, coaching, and administering shots, and sometimes simply getting out of the way. 
Spotters have been known to go above and beyond the call of duty. Although jumpers are supposed to be physically suited for the sport, no one is turned away. "Even if they're huge, we can basically just throw them up there," says Jack. 
Gabrielle is not huge, but she is a first­time jumper. And she's feeling a little hesitant. 
Potential jumpers must first sign a release laden with words and phrases like "waive," "not liable," "potential injury," "death," and "next of kin." 
Gabrielle signs. When her name is called, however, she panics. "No. I changed my mind," she 

pleads. Her friends nudgn her forward. making poultry noises. Gabrielle takes a few more swigs of her drink and says re­signedly, ''I'm gonna die. I want my name in the paper for this." 
She suits up. A red and blaek jumpsuit of the space-age unisex variety has been covered with Vekro in all the areas most likely to stiek. Thny are dnsignnd to flatter no one. "I haven't seen anyone look good in one yet," comments .lark the Spotter. "They all have saggy butts." 
Gabrielle looks in the mirror to check for the possibility of a saggy butt. 
She smooths her hair. 
She poses for pn~-jump pictures. 
She confers with the Spotters. 
She tests the springiness of the springboard. She is advised, "Okay, go up-and then around-kind of..." 
She takes a few more swigs, and ... 
She runs towards the board amid enthusiastic shouts of "Go Gab!". bounces off the springboard, and attempts a flip-but it is low, too low, and everyone is disappointed. 
Spectators murmur eritieally. "Oh, she can't do it. She's awful. .. " "Should've stuck with trying a twist..." 
Gabrielle, for her part, is looking a slightly dazed. But surprisingly, she announces ... 
She's going to go again. 
Gabrielle takes off again, hurtling herself towards the board. Good speed-good height-she's a natural. Suspended upside-down on the giant Velcro board, Gabrielle's expression is euphoric, and a little disoriented. She calls for a shot. Bulbs flash. The blood begins to rush to her head, and Gabrielle is triumphantly peeled down. 
The crowd is approving. "Nice form ... " "Good dismount. .." 
Even Jack the Spotter is impressed, and tells her, "You are the best Velcro jumper that ever lived." 
"No, I was crooked," says Gabrielle modestly. 
She has jumped and lived. She is the latest participant of a new and exciting sport destined to endure. Yes, Velcro­jumping is going to stick. 

------~--------------~-~---------­
Tuesday, Apnl 14, 199 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
05/15 
WORD PROCESSING 
256-6657 
$$FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-Sat 
Pandora's Books 
corner of ND ave & Howard 
reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday 
LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes every Sat. and Sun. at 8:00AM. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment and training programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948­2665: 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
287-4082. 
Typing 
Pickup & Delivery 
277-7406 
PRESCHOOL REGISTRATION 
for FALL. 
Children's Community Co-op 
Morning Classes for 3's, 4's, 
5's and also Toddler Playschool. 
SPRING OPEN HOUSE, 
Sunday, April 26, 3-5 p.m. 
333 N Main St. South Bend 
Growing popularity within the 
Notre Dame Community 
(Call tor references) 
Peg Moody 234-2320 
DAYTON, OH 
I need a ride to Dayton for 
Easter break!! Please 
call Kathy X4026. 
ILOST/ FOUND I 
LOST­
WILSON SOFTBALL MITT ON 
THURS., 4-2. LEFT AT 
BOOKSTORE COURTS ON THE 
BLEACHERS NEAR BADIN HALL. 
I-LOVE MY MITT-IT HAS GREAT 
SENTIMENTAL VALUE I IF YOU 
HAVE ANY INFO, PLEASE, 
PLEASE, PLEASE 
CALL MARGARET •2953 
FOUND: At Stonhenge, 1 
groovy looking hoop earring 
with brass beads and so on... 
drop by 303 St. Ed's or call 
x1672 
LOST: BETWEEN SOUTH DINING HALL AND FISHER REGATTA A GOLD ID BRACELET WITH NAME "MELISSA". SENTIMENTAL VALUE!!! IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 283-3865. 
LOST: SILVER CELTIC CROSS ON SILVER CHAIN. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MARY 3440. $$$ 
LOST: WALLET LAST THURSDAY AT THE COMMONS. IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO JEFF LYMANX1171 
Found: One stick of red, glossy 
lipstick in a motel in Greencastle, 
Ind. this weekend. If this is yours, 
please contact John Rock at •3559 
WANTED 
Even though MR. BUSH is speaking at graduation, my aunt still wants to come. Please help her out;Sell me a graduation ticket. Call x4233 
SENIORS: '88 ND Grad is directing an office in Las Vegas for a national, publicly­held company. I'm not interested in your degree. I'm looking for a hard worker who wants a career opportunity. Call702-647-0017 from 1 0-4. Ask for John. 
HELP: I need a ride to Wash DC 
area tor Easter. Will help pay expenses. Call Kara x2969 
MOVING TO LA? 
I'm looking for roommates to live 
near Manhattan Beach after graduation. 
CALL JULIE x1342 
Two ND students need two roommates to share apt. in DC (Foggy Bottom/GWU area) for the summer. Call Steve (x1889) or Dan (x2013) if interested. 
Need ride to/from Pittsbgh 
4 Easter. Will split gas/tolls. Ray 
x2388 

SUMMER LIVE-IN 
NANNY POSITION 
MILWAUKEE 
X2613 

ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8,000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597. 
Turtle Creek guys need two more roommates for next year. Call Brian at x3414. 
Female roommate needed for Williamsburg Apt. June 1st $234.50. Call 258-5702 
HELP!!! Everyone bailed on me. Need 1,2, or 3 roomates tor place off campus for next year. Have nice furniture! Call JP@ X1081. 
$$We need rides to NJ/Phila for 
Easter! 1321-Kristinmna 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
2 Bedroom Walk to Campus 
$390 Month 
232 3616 
COLLEGE PARK CONDOS -12 NEW UNITS -1300 sq. ft.­Ironwood & Bulla -2 B/R -2 Bath ­available immediately-call287­0534 or 271-9268. 
SUMMER SUBLET (TURTLE CREEK) 272-9540! 
ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO., FOR LARGE 4-BEDROOM, FURNISHED HOUSE. COMPLETE SECURITY SYSTEM, WASHER & DRYER, 9-MO. LEASE. DEPOSIT. 259-7801 OR 255-5852. 
705 Notre Dame Ave., 3-bdrm., 
family or grad students. Avail. 611, 
summer lease and/or fall term. 
$475/mo. 234-8200 for details. 
4 BEDROOM HOUSE for 
SUMMER. 
Walk to campus. Furnished. 
Safe neighborhood. 
Call Agnes x2769 
New condo available mid-May 
thru mid-August. COMPLETELY 
furnished, incl­
uding linen, towels, and dishes. 2 
bedrooms, 2 baths. 
Walking distance to ND campus. 
Call Kathleen -277­
1709. 
OAKHILL CONDO FOR RENT NEW, SPACIOUS 2 BDRM, 29TH, WID, GARAGE, WALKING DIST. TO ND CAMPUS, NICE POOL. CALL CAROLINE OR BILL AT 317­875-8890. 
Attractive studio's in lovely old Mansion 112 mile from ND 225­300/Mo. plus deposit. Call 2879624 for summer and fall rentals. 
2 Bdrms. NOW; 3 available in June, summer school. $200/mo. Use of all facilities. Close to campus, safe neighborhood. 232-2794. 
TURTLE CREEK SUMMER 
SUBLET-PRICE NEG.; 
FURNISHED. 271-1399 
FOR SALE 
1974 Fiat Xt-9, convertable, 
red, replaced motor, 4-sp, 
restored, woman owned, 
$3500 O.B.O. 
Jim 271-1211 or 287-5713 
anytime 
TICKETS 
Help -I need an extra graduation ticket so my Grandfather won't be disappointed (It'll be worse for him 
to miss it than have to listen to George) 
PLEA$E HELP ME! 
call Steve 273-2501 
Extended Catholic family coming from NJ. Need as many grad. tix as humanly possible. Call Teresa x2899 to haggle. 
FOR SALE: chp. 1 way tick. SB to Los Angeles. Monday, 5!18. Jim x1558. 
Need 1-2 grad tix. Talking big$$. Ron 3315, leave message. 
PERSONAL r 
PORT-A-PIT CHICKEN & RIBS Saturday, April 25, (Blue-Gold Game Day), at St. Joseph's High School. 
Help the parents keep the kids safe after the prom. Proceeds go to support the 
Jr/Sr Post-Prom Party. Advance ticket prices tor Port-A-Pit are $3.50/chicken, and $4/ribs. Call 272-3753 and leave message. Tickets can be delivered directly to you on campus. 
to the athletic dept.: your time is gonna come -led zeppelin 
Help Me, Please 
I need graduation tickets if anyone has some they are not going to use. Call Quinn at x2059 if you have any info. 
please, help me 
LET'S GO GREYHOUND TO PHILADELPHIA. $128.00 ROUND TRIP. RESTRICTIONS APPLY. 287-6541. 
LET'S GO GREYHOUND TO NEW YORK CITY. $116.00 ROUND TRIP. RESTRICTIONS APPLY. 287-6541. 
Is anyone out there interested in studying for our Economics 303 exam: (Statistics) . . . ? ? ? Please call Cris @ X4907 
NEEDED: Graduation tickets ! ! ! ! for family, Please call Alice @ X4907 
Meg, 
• FRIENDS FOREVER" AND "LOVE YOU ALWAYS!" 
Love, Land M 
WHOOPS! Is "Our Baby" growing in your tummy by accident? Loving doctor and his stay at home wife would like to discuss Baby's future with you. Please call us collect anytime. (219) 462-5250. Debra and Michael. 
SHAGGY/HOBBES (a.k.a. Chris Carrigan) ... 
You are a stud. I love you. 
-Olive Oyl 
SENIORS 
E 
N "NEW JOB LISTING" HANDOUTS AVAILABLE IN CAREER AND PLACEMENT 
SERVICES. 
0 
NOW 
R 
S UPDATED WEEKLY 
S E N 0 R S 
E 
N "NEW JOB LISTING" HANDOUTS AVAILABLE IN CAREER & PLACEMENT SERVICES. 
0 
NOW R 
S UPDATED WEEKLY 
JOE DURAND: Now that you have your black belt, will you continue to get thrashed at practice? "No, now I've moved up to 'trounced.'" Congratulations!!! All your roommates and friends. 
Does anyone have extra tickets tor graduation ? ? Please call Cris @ X4907 

Here they are ...what you've all been waiting for---quotes from ICPA '92: --"He's a lot bigger than guys I'm used to being with" -"I'm a little worn out" -"1 am not in heat and I am not a dog" -"Was he a two-hander?" -"I love Hobbs" -"The idea is ..." -"His last name means 'Cathcher of Anna'" -"I've only had one two-hander in my life" -"It's a foot long. It's possible. It really is" -"Oh yeah, those Italian sausages" -"Tuts, you may not believe me, but I hate it when people get so drunk they puke. It's just so stupid" -"We only have 12 people. I'll be in your office in a minute" -"As if Monica's ego isn't big enough already" -"Anna, you look so...Disheveled" -"Jay sucks!" -,-"If you're interested in a little badminton..." 
The Arts and Letters Business Society proudly welcomes: 
Arthur J. Declo 
"Chairman of the Board and C.E.O., Skyline Corp. 

•Member,ND 
board of trustees 

•Received 
presidential appts. to 3 nat'l commissions ·served on the boards of over 35 civic,religious, business, educational, and financial organizations ·vice-chairman of the board; Nat'l Salvation Army 

•Director, 
Internal'! Special Olympics, Bane One Indiana, Schwarz Paper Co., and NIPSCO Industries. Mr. Decio will be discussing his activities and answering any questions. 

Tuesday, April 14,1992 7pm -7:30pm Foster Room, LaFortune everyone is welcome! 


•ATTENTION 
NDCIBD MEMBERS Those interested in going to the Roundtable, 4/23, call Amy Markx4290. Patricia Besser, VP oft st Nat'l Bank of Chicago will speak on "Corporate Aspects of Supply & Demand" 


To Special Agent Mavencka: Your Mission: Attack tower 2 and take no prisioners. 
Esperanza 
c 
A 
p 
CHECK IT OUT N 
c 
0 R 
K 
THE FIRST ANNUAL BREEN-PHILLIPS SING-A-THON Tonight, Apnl14,1992 in Theodore's from 7pm-2am 
All donations will go to the CATHOLIC WORKER HOUSE 
Come out and support B.P. in JUDY'S JAM '92! 
WHY YOU HIT ME? 
hey nit 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Callt-800-878-3696. 
The Lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans! 
Irish Music and Dance Every Tuesday at Club 23 SEAMAISIN 
Heading for EUROPE this summer? Jet there anytime for $169 from the East Coast, $229 from the Midwest (when available) with AIRHITCH! (Reported in Let's Go! & NY Times.) For details: AIRHITCH(r) 212-864-2000. 
ADOPTION Childless, Christian, Couple wishes to adopt. Legal and medical paid. Call Bill and Kathy, Collect, at 219­322-8187. 
ANYONE LEAVING FRI. 17, GOING WON 1-80 CALL SHARIF @ 1931 
Happy Birthday! John Flanagan! 
Now that you are 21 , we think you should know: Your sisters do tart!! 
Yo jane, what's up with the El NATURAL look 
SPORTSMANSHIP OF THE YEAR AWARD 
goes to the player who blatantly fouled 00 on Sarg's team yesterday during bookstore at Stepan. Nice job jumping on his back, guess you can't win playing fair. 
From, A few loyal fans 
To the Garlitz Brothers, Get Well Soon! Love, Your adoring fans from PW 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
4th FLOOR KEITH ANDERSON: We're watching you ...and we're coming TO GET YOU!! You'd better lock your door! 
PIG TOSTAL IS COMING!!IIII 
WHAT YOU HIT ME FOR? 
RIDE NEEDED--Iowa City or vacinity for Easter. JEN 2198. 
Eileen O'Connor, 
You are so lucky that you missed roompicks! They were from hell! Poor Chinetta got screwed out of her roompick. It is okay now she is living with Kara! Have fun! 
Love, Cyn and Melis 

BOOKSTORE RESULTS 
Sarg del. Pale Riders, 21-14 Come Under Nelson's Tent del. Tequila Whne Mockingbird XII, 21-6 Yeah I CorTmissloner Censored Our Name d. Five who Penetrate & Shoot, 21-12 10 Minutes to Wapner del. 878lbs of Dangling Fury, 21-10 Amateur Phafactlc del. Dahmer, Mason, Ghandl & other Humanitarians, 21-11 WHate Jimmy Buffet del. Fr. B's Study Group, 21-14 4 Guys Eatln' Regularty & 1Single Guy del. Guns & Rosses, 21-10 Shoot or Get Off del. We're Not Frazier, 21-15 Blackjack del. Penetrators, 21-13 Air Panther del. The Reach-Arounds, 22-20 5 Guys that Can1 Score wnh T del. Whne Shadow Returns, 21-16 Man Curoe's Wedding Present del. Not Just Whne...Really White, 21-17 2 Guys & 3 Other Guys del. Mr. Kipper & the Unforseen Realizations, 21-12 We Drink More Before 8 am... all day del. We Short, Slow White, 21-15 4 Studs & One other Guy del. 4 Musty Pe~s. 21-16 Bitter del. As Good as a Bye, 21-2 We're Good Enough We're Smart Enough del. Magic & 4 Others, forfeit II We Weren1 Such Good Looking Guys d. 5that have never been in Waddicks, 21-19 Zollle's Double Cheeseburger del. Young Lust, 21-16 Drive By Shooting del. CJ's Voodoo skybo~ers of Love, 21-15 Civil Disobedience del. Migraines & Other Headaches, 21-17 Word to your Mother II del. Bloody Lugars, 21-13 Charlestown Chlffs del. April Reign, 21-17 Soul Glow del. Vanilla Smurfs, 21-19 Frank Prebin & ... del. Live and Let Dyer, 21-17 AD's Nlghtdub del. 3RA Rejecls & 3 Guys who like this place, 21-10 Hot Fudge del. Larrbelr WannaBe's, 21-11 Bittersweet del. Dissed by Peter, 21-15 Panic Hardware del. Aloof Clueless Jerks, 21-13 Team 587 del. Yogurt, 21-18 A Blow Dryer, Curting Iron & Others Your Girtfriend Uses del. Black Beans & Rice, 21-5 Jim Chitwood & "Picket-Fence" d. Behind Back, Between Legs, In Hole, 21-17 Black Sheep del. No Blood, No Foul, 21-5 Painkiller Quln del. Eddie and Bruisers, 21-13 Club Shenanigan's del. Dingle & the Berries, 21-5 5 Man Acoustical Jam del. Jerry's Kids, 21-6 
BOOKSTORESCHEDULE . 
STEPHAN CT1 The Crimedogs vs. Box In-Box Out, 4:00 Cr. Scholl's Crew vs. Orange Juice, 4:45 Hypothetical Sex vs. The Lionhearts, 5:30 Spllnln' That vs. Common's Club, 6:15 STEPHAN CT2 All the President's Men vs. Richochet Warriors, 4:00 ABC vs. Vegetable Eroticism. 4:45 NUTS vs. We Shoot Like Glris, 5:30 L-Traln Ill vs. The Good, The Bad, & The Laundry, 6:15 STEPHAN CT3 Ebony Side of the Dome vs. Fat Bob & the Sausage Factory, 4:00 Touch My Monkey vs. Too Hot for You, 4:45 Tommy's Tavern va. The Men of Kernel, 5:30 ? vs. No Snackin at theY, 6:15 STEPHAN CT4 Fighting Kemats vs. Jesus on Wheels, 4:00 4 Dudes & Flaming Gomer v. Attack of Phyjitus­lipped Gravity Beasts, 4:45 Desert Eagles vs. Real Fab Five, 5:30 Team 244 vs. Hawk Will Never Die, 6:15 STEPHAN CT5 McCormick& vs. DC Underground, 4:00 Nubian Brothers vs. The Dyslexics 96ing Happy Fun Smoke Gang, 4:45 You Can't Spell Rat w/o RA vs. Men Who Love Fermented Grain, 5:30 Anthony Travel vs. Apocalypse & the Four Horsemen, 6:15 STEPHAN CT6 Caesar & the Pleased vs. Mama's Posse, 4:00 The Steins vs. (Un-nanned team), 4:45 Game Cancelled vs. Pass the Beernuts, 5:30 

#47 We Love to Be Seeded #70 The Fab Five 
#50 EZ4U2NV #13 From Bookstore 5:30 
#38 Look But Don't Touch #9 Rattle and Hummus Wednesday, April22 Lyons 11 Lyons 12 #43 PIGS #69 Smooth, Swift, & Sweaty
4:30 

#14 Montezuma's Revenge #66 Ring My Belle II #8 Schwing
#15 Da Belles 

5:30 #48 We Be Strokin'
#70 The Fab Five 

-----~--------~-------~--~---~­
page 12 The Observer Tuesday, April 14, 1992 
Men's track team performs strongly at Dogwood Relays 
By RIAN AKEY 
Sports Writer 

While much of the Notre Dame campus concentrated on DAHT times and elass times last weekend. a ditTerent kind of time eoneerned the Irish men's track squad. !)uallfying times were the focus of the ND tfJam 's efforts at the Sea Ray Dogwood Relays in Knoxville (Tn). an important meet in the Irish schedule. 
"This was a very large meet," commented head coach Joe Piarw. "There were over 60 schools and 2000 athletes participating." 
The large numbers of com· petitors made top Irish p(lrfor­manees evtm more impressive. Once again, Irish muscle was particularly flexed in the middle distance and distance events. 
Two runners placed first in their respective 1500 meter heats. Sean Schneider's time of 3 minutes 54 seconds shaded J. T. Burke's 3 minutes 57 seconds to earn him team honors in the event. 
Outdistancing most of his competition in the 10,000 me­ters was Mike McWilliams. His time of 29 minutes 49 seconds earned him second place over­all. 
Also running to a second place finish was Nate Ruder, who completed the 5,000 meter course in 14 minutes 34 seconds. 
Huder teamed up with Schneider, Burke, and John Cowan in the 4 X 1500 meter relay, where the talented team dashed to a seventh place fin­ish. 
In field events, Jon Smerek continued to perform steadily in the discus. His throw of 161 feet landed him in fourth plaee. 
Coach Piane was again satis­fied with the meet's results, calling it ~a very successful weekend." 
Lewis breaks IH floor hockey barriers 
By JOSEF EVANS 
Sports Writer 
"We're tough gals," said Amy Hughes of her Lewis Hall floor hockey teammates, and by looking at their situation, you might say they'd have to be. Their team is the lone female squad in the HecSports interhall league. 
There was no statement being made when these girls decided to form a team. The girls of the team were just as surprised as the league's organizers to find themselves in that situation, but decided to tough it out anyway. 
"We thought there would be other girls teams playing," noted Hughes. 
Coach Steve Curley admits, however, that the team's prospects in the all-male league were not too bright. 
"I didn't expect much. In fact, I was just worried they wouldn't have a good time because they would be getting beat so bad. They really surprised me, though." 

Many of the women on the team played either lacrosse or field hockey in high sehool, and therefore have been able to hold their own on the floor. Though they have posted an unimpressive 0-3 record and lost by some rather convincing margins, the fact that they can give the other teams in the league a good game is victory enough. 
1 Their opponents, meanwhile, 
are not often too excited about 
facing a women's team, and 
sometimes play with much less 
than their best effort. This only 
adds fuel to the women's fire. 
"They used to detest the way 
the guys didn't try, but now it 
just motivates them further." 
commented Curley. 

Hughes, however, speaks 
more highly of her opponents. 
"The guys are usually pretty 
niee. They're really courteous." 
In a team sport, all the 
players on the squad contribute 
their part, but there is definitely one athlete who stands out, and that is goalie Mary Lisa Penilla. 
"She was outstanding," said Curley. "We usually only got about 5 shots on goal in a game, while our opponents would get something like 26, so she stopped a lot of shots." 
No matter how they do, the women of Lewis Hall's floor hockey embody the whole phi­losophy behind RecSports: they are really enjoying themselves, no matter how their opponents treat them. 
Being the only female team in a male league may be challenging, but the Lewis team undoubtedly rises to the occasion. 
"It's great, beeause we can be as rough as we want with (our opponents) when we play." added Hughes. 
Steve Curley probably said it up best when he summed up the season so far, saying, "Fun has been had by all." 
And that's what it's all about. 
Lax 
continued from page 16 

whieh beat the goalie low and to his right. Midfielder Brian Mayglothing assisted in the record-breaking goal after deliv11ring a perfect pass from bnhind the net. · 
As the stadium announcer re­ported Sullivan's accomplish­ment, the crowd rose to its feet and saluted Notre Dame's new scoring leader. The loudest of those cheers came from the family and friends of Sullivan in attendance. 
"It definately meant more for me to break the record at home," stated Sullivan. "To have my roommates, my mother and my cousins here to see it means a lot." 
It also meant a lot to coach Kevin Corrigan, who has wit­nessed all of Sullivan's 79 as­sists and 76 goals. Sullivan was a member of the first freshmen class coached by Corrigan when he arrived to head the program in 1989. 
"Everybody is happy for Sully. His record reflects the devel­opment of the Notre Dame program and Sully's develop­ment as a player," said Corrigan. "It is well deserved, and there are few players who have worked as hard as he has." 
After the crowd settled and the ball which marked Sullivan's accomplishment was set aside, the Irish continued their dominance of the Patriots. 
In the remaining two periods, Stony Brook shot thirteen times, finding the net only once. Notre Dame hit between the pipes six more times before the final buzzer sounded. 
Notre Dame attempted an amazing 63 shots on goal which included 21 in the first period alone. While Patriot goalie Rob Serrnatore was being pelted with shots, the Notre Dame goalkeeping eorps of Chris Parent and Ryan Jewell had only to swat away 24 Stony Brook attempts. 

The amazing shot total by the Irish is deceptive considering the poise Notre Dame showed while victimizing the porous Patriot defense. 
"They moved the ball excep­tionally," commented Kolm. "They were very patient on of­fense, and that gave us a lot of trouble." 
Eight different Irish players benefitted from that patience, the most frequent being Colley. 
The six-foot three junior tallied his seventh hat trick of the sea­son and also dealt a team-high five assists. 
"Overall we played really well," added Corrigan. "We are getting more consistent and getting more people contribut­ing. We are coming together." 
The six game win streak dates back to the matchup with Lake Forest on March 18. Only three teams in Notre Dame his­tory have won as many consec­utive games as this year's squad. The most recent came in 1989 when Corrigan led his first team to six straight before falling to Denison. 

C.J. O:J.6.Ji. ;.,6. (;.(JJ/.l't;_ t~;_ Q:f. l;(l.{J. l:.f'il.. 1J.I.:J}J.li11. ACCT 231 02 0822  AIUII AHill AHill  169 01 397 01 461 01  0970 3307 3550  ECON ECON ECON  303L 02 403 01 403T 01  0296 3584 3585  GSC GSC GSC  358 01 430 01 475 01  3648 3457 3657  MSA MSA MUS  543 01 580 01 2201) 01  0651 3517 2092  PSY PSY HLST  472 01 481 01 200 12  2364 3813 9512  Til EO Til EO Til EO  200 16 200 20 200 24  0719 OH08 4161  
ACCT  2:ll  06  Oll26  AHST  133S 01  0990  ECON  421  01  1350  GSC  41l0Z 01  3352  MUS  220D 02  0330  HLST  200 14  9514  Til EO  224 01  0262  
ACCT  231  OH  0828  AHST  149A 01  0992  ECON  422 01  0662  HIST  225 01  0933  MUS  221 01  2646  RLST  200 1H  9518  THEO  227 02  0260  
ACCT  231  II  Oll31  AHST  241S 01  2892  ECON  489 01  1881  IIIST  230 01  3393  MUS  223 01  0327  HLST  220 22  9522  Til EO  229 01  3873  
ACCT  231  14  0834  AHST  325S 01  1003  EDUC  201F 02  8402  HIST  308 01  3119  NSCI  211  03  2151  HLST  220 24  9524  Til EO  237 01  0709  
ACCT  231  15  0835  BA  230 01  1051  EDUC  201F 04  8404  IIIST  308A 01  3722  NSCI  411  03  2165  HLST  235 40  9540  Til EO  250 01  0661  
ACCT  334 OJ  0841  BA  230 06  0121  EDUC  201F 07  8407  !liST  326A 01  3723  PHIL  201 01  2182  HLST  235 42  9542  Til EO  258 01  :i874  
ACCT  334 02  0842  BA  230 07  0120  EDUC  324 18  8418  IIIST  334A 01  3725  PHIL  201 02  2183  RLST  240 28  9528  Til EO  261 01  0704  
ACCT  371  04  OH49  BA  362 01  1057  EDUC  404 26  8426  !liST  348A 01  3728  PHIL  201 03  2184  RLST  240 30  9530  Til EO  263 02  3876  
ACCT  372 01  bH52  BA  363 02  1059  EDUC  440L 30  8430  HIST  354A 01  3731  PHIL  201  04  2185  RLST  335 56  9556  TilEO  265 01  0703  
ACCT  475 02  0857  BA  363 04  1061  EDUC  452 42  8442  HIST  358A 01  3733  PHIL  201  05  2186  HOFR  103 05  2551  Til EO  268 01  3879  
ACCT  475 03  Oil 58  BA  391  01  0769  EE  222T 01  1373  HIST  370 01  3121  PHIL  201 06  2187  HOFH  241  04  2H41  THEO  281  01  3151  
ACCT  476 01  3007  BA  391 02  0768  EE  342L 01  1397  HIST  395 01  0080  PHIL  201 07  2188  HOFR  310 02  0810  THEO  286 01  3882  
ACCT  479 01  0863  BA  391 03  0559  EE  3421. 02  1398  IIIST  431A 01  3737  PHIL  201  08  2189  ROFR  426 01  3438  THEO  287 01  0254  
AEHO  4441. 02  0873  BA  490 03  1067  EE  342L 04  0144  HIST  444A 01  3741  PHIL  201 09  2190  HOlT  103 01  2567  THEO  288 01  4070  
AEHO  4441. 04  0875  BA  490 04  1068  EE  344T 02  1402  !liST  453A 01  3743  PHIL  201  10  2191  ROIT  105 02  2849  THEO  290 01  4156  
AEHO  4461. 02  0879  BA  490 05  1069  EE  348T 02  2690  HIST  458 01  3744  PIIIL  201  11  2959  HOlT  312 01  2852  
AEHO  4461. 03  0880  BA  490 06  1070  ENGL  300C 01  3591  !liST  458A 01  3745  PHIL  201  13  0792  ROSP  to2A o:i  2578  (;J.t~J;.l.J '![~71:. ll.f.J.J.  
AEHO  4461. 04  Oll81  BIOS  2011. 01  1073  ENGL  311  01  1561  HIST  465A 01  3747  PHil.  201  14  4100  HOSP  102A 04  2579  KEDl'l.tU~'!l..l.dt.&!. J:.IXL  
AFAM  329 01  3224  BIOS  201L 02  1074  ENGL  313 01  1563  HIST  472A 01  3748  PHIL  201  15  4101  ROSP  102A 05  2580  ~  
AFAM  384 01  3520  BIOS  201L 03  1075  ENGl.  319A 01  1564  IIIST  474A 01  3749  PHIL  201  16  4102  ROSP  103 02  2583  ACCT  231  02  0822  
AFAM  384C 01  3519  BIOS  3041. 01  1081  ENGl.  319A 02  1565  liPS  247 01  3192  PillI.  222 01  2195  HOSP  103 04  2585  ACCT  231  06  0826  
AFAM  401  01  3463  BIOS  344L 01  1084  ENGL  324 01  3592  liPS  320 01  3020  PHIL  223 01  3784  HOSP  103 05  2586  ACCT  476 01  3007  
AFAM  452 01  3214  BIOS  344L 02  1085  ENGl.  328A 01  0175  liPS  335 01  4138  PHIL  225 01  3137  HOSP  103 06  2587  AL  211  10  OH97  
AFAM  474 01  4152  BIOS  344L 03  3897  ENGL  340 01  0041  liPS  473C 01  4145  PHIL  230 01  3785  HOSP  103 07  258/l  AL  211  14  0901  
AL  211  01  0888  BIOS  344L 04  3899  ENGL  371 01  3594  liPS  584 01  3089  PHIL  2:15  01  2197  HOSP  103 08  2589  AL  211  18  0905  
AI.  211  02  0889  BIOS  405 01  0135  ENGL  379T 01  3596  LAW  506 02  1787  PHIL  238 01  0449  HOSP  103 09  2590  AL  211  19  0906  
AI.  211  03  0890  BIOS  420 01  1912  ENGL  384C 01  3164  LAW  601 01  1806  PHIL  241 02  4186  ROSP  103 10  2591  AL  211  20  0907  
AI.  211  04  0891  BIOS  420L 01  1916  ENGL  416F 01  3074  LAW  603 02  1810  PHIL  242 01  0055  HOSP  103 11  2592  AL  211  23  0910  
AI.  211  05  0892  BIOS  420L 02  1931  ENGL  417 01  3611  LAW  6060 01  1813  PHIL  242 03  4188  HOSP  234 01  3836  ANTH  313 01  3536  
AL  211  06  0893  BIOS  455 01  3991  ENGL  440B 01  3613  LAW  631A 01  1826  PHIL  243 01  3786  HOSP  236 01  3837  AHST  149A 01  0992  
AL  211  07  0894  CAPP  315 01  1164  ENGL  471A 01  3623  LAW  631B 01  1827  PHIL  245 01  4189  ROSP  237 01  0286  ARST  241S 01  2892  
AI.  211  09  0896  CAPP  361  01  1165  ENGL  475A 01  3351  lAW  633 01  2994  PHIL  245 02  4190  ROSP  237 02  0521  BA  490 03  1067  
AI.  211  10  0897  CE  442 01  1178  ENGl.  478B 01  3624  LAW  652A 01  0535  PHIL  246 01  2198  ROSP  310 01  2601  CHEM  223L 04  1236  
AI.  211  12  0899  CIIEG  255T 02  0233  ENGL  485C 01  1581  LAW  695 03  1841  PHIL  247 01  3190  HOSP  318 01  2602  EE  342L 01  1397  
AL  211  13  0900  CHEM  119L 02  3053  ENGL  492C 01  3628  LAW  695 05  1843  PHIL  253 01  3141  ROSP  328 01  2603  ENGL  319A 02  1565  
AL  211  14  0901  (:II EM  119L 04  3057  ENGL  493A 01  3629  LLRO  451  01  3826  PHIL  261 01  2200  soc  232 01  2917  FIN  361 01  1607  
AI.  211  16  0903  C:IIEM  119L 05  3059  ENGL  495A 01  3630  MARK  231 02  1846  PHIL  261 02  3788  soc  242 01  3843  GOVf  340T 03  3669  
AL  211  18  0905  CIIEM  119L 07  3510  ENGL  592C 01  3637  MARK  231 03  1847  PHIL  263 01  3789  soc  242 02  3844  HIST  348A 01  3728  
AL  211  19  0906  CHEM  223 01  1230  ENGL  595B 01  3638  MARK  231 04  1848  PHIL  265 01  2201  soc  300 01  3845  MARK  370 01  1856  
AI.  211  20  0907  CIIEM  223 02  3999  FIN  360 02  1601  MARK  231 06  1850  PHIL  268 01  2202  soc  332 01  0054  ME  241  01  0241  
AI.  211  21  0908  CHEM  223L 01  1231  FIN  360 03  1602  MARK  231 07  1852  PHIL  301 01  2204  soc  370 01  3847  MGT  240 02  2023  
AL  211  22  0909  CIIEM  223L 02  1233  FIN  360 04  1605  MARK  231 08  1853  PHIL  301 02  4103  soc  372 01  2139  MUS  221  01  2646  
AL  211  23  0910  CIIEM  223L 03  1235  FIN  361  01  1607  MARK  350 02  1855  PHYS  171 01  2230  soc  374 01  3449  NSCI  211 03  2151  
AI.  211  24  0911  CIIEM  223L 04  1236  FIN  361  02  1608  MARK  370 01  1856  PHYS  221 01  2231  soc  400 01  3850  PillI.  201 04  2185  
AI.  211  25  0912  CHEM  235 01  1238  FIN  361  05  1612  MATH  225T 02  0213  PHYS  221L 02  2234  soc  400T 01  3851  PHIL  201 05  2186  
AL  211  27  0914  CIIEM  322L 01  1242  FIN  361 06  1613  MATH  225T 03  0212  PHYS  221L 05  2236  soc  445 01  3855  PHIL  201  11  2959  
AI.  211  28  0915  CIIEM  3221. 02  1243  FIN  370 01  1614  MATH  225T 08  4005  PHYS  221L 06  2237  soc  448 01  3027  PHil.  201  16  4102  
AL  211  30  0917  CIAS  305 01  3064  FIN  376 04  1620  MATH  323 01  1922  PHYS  222 01  2238  soc  520 01  2631  PHIL  238 01  0449  
AI.  211  31  0918  COT! I  204 01  3071  FIN  380 04  1624  MATH  325 01  1923  PHYS  222L 01  2239  soc  653 06  0505  PHIL  242 03  4188  
AI.  211  32  0919  COT! I  204 02  3565  FIN  462 01  1625  MBA  601 01  4074  PHYS  229 01  2240  STV  225 01  3138  PHil.  245 02  4190  
AL  211  34  0921  coni  205 01  3073  FIN  476 01  0117  MBA  649 01  2697  PHYS  229A 01  4011  STV  229 01  3713  PHIL  261  01  2200  
AL  211  35  0922  COT! I  205 02  3566  FIN  478 01  1630  ME  241 01  0241  PHYS  229L 02  2243  STV  247 01  3290  PHil.  268 01  2202  
AMST  384 01  2887  COT!I  210 01  3567  GE  101 01  1689  ME  241 02  0240  PHYS  331L 01  2249  STV  253 01  3142  PSY  457 01  3811  
AMST  422 01  2811  COT! I  330 01  3569  GE  101 03  1691  ME  327 01  1995  PHYS  331L 02  0658  STV  263 01  3715  HOSP  102A 04  2579  
AMST  5HO  01  3534  COT! I  334C 01  3572  GE  103 01  1694  MGT  231 01  2012  PSY  211  01  2357  STV  310 01  3716  soc  232 01  2917  
ANT II  310 01  2935  COTH  377 01  3079  GE  301  01  2984  MGT  231 02  2013  PSY  341  01  2361  STV  454 01  3029  soc  242 02  3844  
ANT II  313 01  3536  COTH  435 01  3575  GOVT  340 01  2986  MGT  231 03  2015  PSY  341 02  2770  THEO  200 01  0738  STV  225 01  3138  
ANT II  328 01  2798  ECON  223 02  1333·  GOVf  340T 03  3669  MGT  231 05  2018  PSY  341 03  2769  THEO  200 02  0736  THEO  200 01  0738  
ANT II  329 01  3225  EC:ON  224 02  1335  GOVf  343T 01  0380  MGT  231 06  2019  PSY  341L 01  2768  THEO  200 03  0737  THEO  200 03  0737  
ANT II  329A 01  3539  ECON  224 03  1336  GOVT  343T 03  0384  MGT  240 01  2022  PSY  341L 02  2446  TliEO  200 04  0735  THEO  200 06  0733  
ANTI I  405 01  3543  ECON  224 04  1337  GOVT  403 01  3670  MGT  240 02  2023  PSY  341L 03  2417  THEO  200 05  0734  THEO  200 09  0724  
ANT II  405A 01  3544  ECON  224 05  1338  GOVT  419 01  4150  MGT  240 03  2024  PSY  342 01  2363  THEO  200 06  0733  THEO  200 16  0719  
ANTII  420 01  2566  ECON  225 01  2971  GOVf  454 01  3673  MGT  240 05  2026  PSY  356 01  3809  THEO  200 09  0724  THEO  263 02  3876  
ANTII  454 01  3028  ECON  225T 05  4089  GOVf  474 01  4096  Ml  308 01  3120  PSY  457 01  3811  THEO  200 13  0720  THEO  286 01  3882  

Tuesday, April 14, 1992 The Observer page 13 
Upperclassmen pace women's track squad 
By JOSEF EVANS Sports Writer 
It was age and experience winning out over youth and ex­uberance for the Notre Dame women's track team this past weekend, as the upperclass athletes came through with the strongest performances in the Sea Ray Dogwood Relays in Knoxville, Tennessee. 
In the past weeks, it has been the large corps of freshmen athletes leading the way for the squad, ·as they have turned in some surprisingly strong fin­ishes. 
Knoxville, however, provided them with a strong reality check, while at the same time pushing the more experienced athletes back into the forefront. 
Freshmen Stefanie Jensen, Eva Flood, and Kristi Kramer finished 11th, 24th, and 31st of 34 in the 5000 meter race, re­spectively. Their disappointing showings were preceded by fel­low freshmen Emily Husted's lOth-place finish in the 3000. 
"The competition was very, very strong --the people were from all over (the country). There were probably some fu­ture Olympians there." com­mented Kramer. 
Among the upperclassmen, though, the news was much more encouraging. Team cap­tain Diana Bradley provided some much-needed senior leadership by racing to the squad's top performance of the weekend, a 10:13. 82 running of the 3000 that was good enough for a third place finish. 
Women golfers win individual, team titles at Bradley ~nvite 

By MIKE HOBBES Sports Writer 
Coming off a week of prac­tice, the Women's Golf team captured first place in the Bradley Invitational this past Sunday and Monday with a double-digit margin of victory 
"We did well at this tourna­ment, despite the adverse weather that had hindered our scores in past tournaments," said coach Tom Hanlon. 
The Irish received strong performances from Crissy Klein, Kathy Phares, and Allison Wojnas who finished the tournament in that respective order. The Irish 
took  first  place  in  the  
individual  and  team  
competitions.  

"It's good to be playing well again. I had endured a slight lapse, but last week's tough practices really helped the team concentrate on some of the finer aspects of our game," said individual-medalist Crissy Klein. 
Junior Lisa Gorski also rose to the occasion with a fifth place finish in the same event (10:19.33). 
In the weights events, Karen Harris continued her consis­tently strong throwing, placing seventh in the shotput with a top throw of 44'10". 
The 4 x 800 meter relay squad, meanwhile, came in sixth in their event with a time of 9:13.61, just .42 of a second behind fifth-place Pitt. 
Though they struggled this 
"This was very encouraging, but I think we can play better. This shows that we are a team with good potential and the ability to compete with stronger teams. It's just a mat­ter of time," said Hanlon. 
The Irish will attempt to maintain their strong perfor­mances in Lafayette, IN. this upcoming weekend at the Purdue Invitational. 
past weekend, the young mem­bers of this squad have had an example set for them by their older counterparts. 
The younger athletes can use the lessons learned this week­end to their advantage, strengthening their perfor­mances throughout the re­mainder of the season. 
Next up for the team will be both the Kansas Relays and the Mount Sac Relays over the Easter Holiday. 
Carnesecca leaves Redmen 
NEW YORK (AP) -Lou Carnesecca, known for his sweaters, success and sideline schtick, retired as coach of St. John's on Monday, a month be­fore his enshrinement in the Basketball Hall of Fame. 
The 6 7 -year-old Carnesecca stepped down after 24 seasons at St. John's, a school he took to postseason play each of those years and the only college he ever worked at. 
"It's going to be very difficult to put the ball down, but the time has come," he said at a packed news conference on campus. "There are two rea­sons, really. I still have half of my marbles and I still have a wonderful taste in my mouth about basketball. It's a difficult decision, but it's all mine." 

Like most Eastern basketball powers, Carnesecca jumped into the national spotlight with the creation of the Big East Conference. 
His teams led by Chris Mullin and Walter Berry may not have earned him as much notice as did his penchant for sweaters, some rather gaudy, instead of the traditional jacket and tie, and his ability to run and jump on the sidelines. like a man 20 years his junior. 
Carnesecca, barely able to look his point guards in the eye, retired with a career record of 526-200. His teams produced 20-win seasons 18 times. St. John's reached the Final Four in 1985 when three Big East teams advanced to the national semifinals at Lexington, Ky. 
Belles softball drops two 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team fell below .500 yesterday as they dropped both games of a double-header to Albion College. 
Although they scored three runs in the seventh inning, the Belles, who are now 9-10 on the season, were not able to hold off the Brittons, and fell by a 6-4 margin in the first game. 
The sixth and seventh innings proved to be the most impor­tant for the Brittons in their victory. 
In the sixth inning, two sin­gles, coupled with two errors and two wild pitches, gave the Brittons a pair of runs, while two singles and a triple pro­vided three more scores in the 

The Brittons defeated the Belles 4-1 in the second contest, with Seanne Patrick scoring the only run for the Belles on a hit by freshman April Rhoades in the fourth inning. 
According to sophomore Staci Bogataj, Albion found most of their strength in their pitching staff. 
"They weren't strong hitters, but they had two really good pitchers, " she said. 
The Belles also turned to pitching yesterday. Once again, freshman Lisa Bright started and went the distance on the mound. 
"I think I pitched o.k. I didn't walk too many, but we had a few errors that really hurt us." Bright said. . 
Bright has started and gone the distance in all but' two of the Belles games, and has re­mained strong despite the rig­orous schedule. 
"We've been playing a lot of games, and that gets hard on my arm, but it really hasn't been a problem." Bright com­mented. "It makes me feel more like a part of the team when I can contribute so much." 
Offensively, Bogataj played aggressively by going 4-for-7 in the two games, including a double early in the first inning of the second. 
"I was pleased with how I hit, but I wish that we could have won." Bogataj said. 
SUMMER STORAGE! 
AS LOW AS $5.78 PER MONTH~ 
RESERVATION 683-1959 (272-8656 AFTER 5:00) 
MASTER MINI WAREHOUSE 
Together we 
W IE JL C ([]) lMIIE 
these members of the Notre Dame community into the Catholic Church 
seventh. 
The Observer 
is now accepting application for the following position: 
Accent Columnist 

Please submit a 1 page personal statement and a sample colu.mn to Jahnelle Harrigan by 5 p.m. on Wed. April15 
To apply, please contact fahnellle at 239-7471. 

ICAMPUS REPS WANTED I 
To market ourprograms on campus. 
The perfect job for those bound for graduate school! Look at the advantages: 
• 
Generous compensation! 

• 
Work on your campus! 

• 
Set your own hours! 

• 
Earn BIG commissions! 

• 
Have fun while you work! 

• 
Earn a FREE LSAT, GMAT, GRE or MCAT Prep Course! 




1(ic/(.7L[varez (jurCi :B{om6erg Cliristoplier :B{um :Bruce :Brai{ey 'David (jarcfey Jolin (jor/(pwsKj Lisa Xjmer LesCie PaCmer 

-Rite of Full Communion Mass Tuesday, April 14 5:00 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart
1-1 
(CMPUSMNIS1RY 
._.__..... 
_.,.., _ 
___.._,__ 

Grand Opening April ~d 
Rainbow Video WE SPECIALIZE IN: Korean Japanese Chinese VideoTapes Free Membership State Road u 8 Ironwood Next to 1• Gas StaUon Mon-Sat 10 am to 10 pm Sun 1:1 noon to • pm 
{219) 273-9545 
_j 
~~~~-~--~--­
page 14 

I Wrest I in g 
continued from page 16
I Boulac, assistant athletic director. O'Connor wrestled with the club sport program and his son, Paul O'Connor, was on Notre Dame's varsity team when he died in a car crash. "The endorsement was meant solely for wrestling," Gowens explained. "Bucky told us that his goal was to make sure that this team became as successful as other Notre Dame athletic teams. (Rosenthal) is breaking this agreement. Boulac said the athletic department asked O'Connor if the endowment could be directed specifically toward developing the wrestling program. "It is completely unethical and opposed to the way (O'Connor) originally wanted it to be done. There is no way he (Rosenthal) should take these funds and give them to other sports." Rosenthal may have exercised his power to "reassess and realign" the school's athletic department as he sees fit, according to Gowens. Some, like Gowens, speculate that Rosenthal's personal feelings played a part in the decision process, which "didn't take the human factor into account." "We graduate all our wrestlers, followed all the university rules," reasoned junior Emil Soehnlen. "It reminds me a little bit about the Digger Phelps situation. It seems like they fired him for all the wrong reasons. Do we stress academics or winning? "I thought they cared for the individuals here; that's one of the reasons I came." 
A few weeks :~~ on TV, I saw 
the Division II basketball championships. I was intrigued 
to hear that one of the teams, 
Bridgeport, Conn., was closing 
its school for good after the 
summer term. How could the 
athletes, students, faculty and 
staff go about their regular, 
everyday business knowing 
this? 
At least Bridgeport went out 
with grace and honor. They 
announced the decision well in 
advance and explained the 
matter in clear terms ("We're 
broke!") so people could seek 
other options. 
But mighty Notre Dame, steeped in all its glory and tradition, made the decision so late and with such hazy reasoning that only friction, bad feelings and contradictions now exist. 
Rosenthal is out of town and Associate AD/Athletic Business Director Joe O'Brien is understandably busy. On the other side, various players will appear on WVFl tonight at 8 p.m., and express their opinions on some of these pressing concerns: 
•Why 
did the administration wait until Thursday, one day after the wrestling banquet, to make the announcement? 

•Why 
did a school like Oregon-currently competing in Alaska-hear of the news before most Irish wrestlers? 

•where 
will the extra money, especially O'Connor's endowment, go? 

•For 
that matter, where will the talented core of young wrestlers go, with the April 15th college athletic scholarship offer deadline now just a day away? 


For now, these questions remain unanswered. 
Sports Writer Samantha Spencer contributed to this article. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•sports 
Briefs are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor o LaFortune. Please submit your name, brief, telephone number, and the dates the brief is to run. 

•Notre 
Dame ROTC will sponsor the 2nd Annual Tri-Military run for charity on April 24. Registration will be held the day of the race beginning at 4 p.m. behind the security building. The race will bebri.n at 5 p.m. All are invited to participate. The cost is $8 per runner which will go to the Special Olympics. 


•sportstalk welcomes wrestlers to the show on WVFI at 8 
p.m. tonight. Emil Soehnlen and others will discuss how they feel about the wrestling program being cut. Call and talk with the wrestlers at 239-6400. 
Student Summer fmPiovees 
Educational Media is searching for 
Energetic, Hardworking, Responsible 
students to work Summer 5eeeion until Graduation 
'9:3, '94, or '951 
Will be trained on AudioNisual needs for a plethora of duties Including: Set-Up of Equipment on Campus and Training in the new DeBartolo classroom building. 
':.' 

The Observer Tuesday, April 14, 1992 
Rugby advances in National Tourney 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
It's Sweet Sixteen time in the National Collegiate Rugby Tournament. 
After winning two prelimi­nary-round matches last week­end at Stepan Field, the Notre Dame Rugby Club is preparing for a trip to Bowling Green University to compete for a spot in the tournament's "final four." 
Notre Dame, two-time de­fending champions of the Chicago Area Rugby Football Union, dominated their two op­ponents this weekend to earn a berth in the Midwest Regional 
Tennis 
continued from page 16 
Alabama. The Irish reached the .500 mark again at 10-10 as they cruised to a 6-0 win. 
Harris was the only Irish player extended to three sets in the shutout. 
South Alabama's Amanda Mitropovlou rebounded from a first set loss to win the second set 6-2, but Harris responded in the third, winning 6-2 and the rout was on. 
"I thought Melissa really played well," Louderback com­mented. "She won a close first set and got down in the second, but she came out strong in the third." 
Freshman Laura Schwab had a tough time in her number two singles match, struggling to beat Vanessa Farlan 7-5, 6-4. At third singles, Christy Faustmann shelled Kelly Williamson 6-2, 6-0 and Tholen won her 19th match in her last 20 attempts with a 6-0, 6-3 de­cision over Kira Briggs. 
Terri Vitale was a winner at semi-finals. 

On Saturday afternoon, the Irish defeated Wisconsin-White Water 34-12, before blasting Miami (OH) 44-12 on Sunday. 
"We had a really solid per­formance," Rugby Club presi­dent Vic Pisani said. "We're enthusiastic for next weekend and we just have to keep the momentum going." 
Notre Dame's opponent in Saturday's opening round has not been determined, but the field at Bowling Green will in­clude the University of Wisconsin at Madison, Penn State and host Bowling Green. 
The format of the tourna­ment will be the same as last 
number five singles and senior Ann Bradshaw closed out the rout with a 6-0, 6-0 blanking of Leslie Davis at number six. 
"We played really well against South Alabama," Louderback explained, "but they're not nearly the team LSU is." 
Another big match awaits the Irish on Wednesday as they close out their spring schedule at Michigan. A win would put the Irish above .500 for the sell.son, a mark they have had a 
·weekend's. The teams will be seeded and play the opening round on Saturday. On Sunday, the losers will play a consola­tion game before the winners square off to determine the Midwest representative in the tournament's final round in Colorado Springs. 
Winners from the nation's four regions will converge on Colorado Springs to determine the 1992 national champion. 
The tournament is not the end of the team's season, how­ever. They will play their final home match during AnTostal on April 25 against Northwestern. 
tough time reaching in 1992. 
They will have to put together a great match to knock off the Wolverines, but their best match of the season came against another Big Ten rival, Indiana. 
"We've been very close to putting it all together in a lot of matches this season," said Louderback, "but I think the closest we came to playing a really great match was against Indiana." 

The Observer 
is now accepting application for the following position: 
Assistant Accent Editor Accent Copy Editor 
Please submit a 1 page personal statement and a sample column to Jahnelle Harrigan by 5 p.m. on Wed. April IS 

IS THERE LIFE AFfER ND??? A RETREAT FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
APRIL 25-26 
This may be your last chance to make a Notre Dame Retreat! limited Space Available. 
Sign up by April 15 
Applications are in the 
Campus Ministry Office 
103 Hesburgh Library 
For further infonnation contact Judy Hutchinson: 239-6515 
Plea6s apply at Room 9, Lower Level In the CCE 61dg. Monday-Friday 8:30 am to 12:00 pm and 1:30 pm to 4:00 pm 
6y April 24, 1992 
~------------~-----------------------------------------------------·------------·--~--------------------------------------­
Today 
Tuesday, April 14, 1992 page 15 
SPELUNKER 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
II.~ 1-tOR.CISC.cl£ SA.'IS. • T\JRN­A~\JT MEA~<; C.\IK\JM':.\Po.N(E<; It-\ '10\JR \=(>..'JOR. f>.<;)£R\ 'l\t.'f{<; IN CONIWEN\ W..t-l~t.R. L~N,._R Cic.LE. 1-\\G\-1, \o\11-.N~ C>r 'IC>IJR 
KE'( I'OL\C\ES 'NilL 
8t. IMI'l.t.\o\£NTEO." 
I 
THE FAR SIDE 
IS~'\ \\\t>.T GRE:,._T? \Cll>t\'1 l'li\ Ff>.~t> 
10 GE\ li\'( 
'tJf...'{.' T\-1£ \.\Et>..'lEW5 DECREE 1"1! 
FIRST, 08--JIC>IJSL'f, 10::. "OONT 
\X) \.\0\i\E'NOR'C C:MO\Il, 
LETS GC> OVI f>.NI) Pli'-.'1.' 
GARY LARSON 
SPIN 
BILL WATTERSON 
1-\E.RE COt<\£S ~0\JR MOI'I\ t>.\lll) II LOOKS LII(E. 'SWt: 1-\t>S A B\lN£ \tJ 1'\CK 'tilT\.\ 1\-\£ MOON. 
1-\f:-.! Wi\R\-\1-A.£ f..<;<;ERT t.\~ ~l£Yf., IN ~ CC>Nfi\)H~T 
Mi\NN'tR.' 
JOHN MONKS 


Up until that moment, Raymond had been a rather shy employee with a nervous twitch. Up until that moment. 
MENU 

Notre Dame 
Chicken Romano Beef Stew w/Biscuit Chili Cheese Macaroni Broiled Chicken 
Saint Mary's 
Fried Chicken BBQ Rib Macaroni & Cheese 
CAMPUS 
Tuesday 
7:30 p.m. The film "Ethnic Notions" will be shown in Knott Hall's chapel lounge. A panel discussion will follow. 
©Edward Julius Collegiate CW83-12 
44 Slender 

45 African country 1 Football players 46 Piece of thread 5 Rich or prominent 49 Contribution 
man 53 Change 10 Scarlett's home 55 Author Grey 14 Defeat soundly 56 Detroit output 15 Market place 57 Mother-of-pearl 16 English river 58 Give off 17 Roman road 59 Items for Tom 18 Military stance Watson 
( 2 wds.) 60 Ms . Garson 2D Living by a certain 61 Charlie Brown 
religious vow expression 22 French painter 23 Take out 
ACROSS DOWN 

24-up 25 Free from sin 1 Mr. Sevareid 12 A Kennedy 13 Picnic problem 19 Between: Fr. 21 Red as a ­24 Swiftly 25 Spreads unchecked 26 Pass off 27 Mouth of a river 2B Circus pole 29 Asunder 30 Brazilian river 31 Golf club 33-plug 36-army 37 -Prize 39 Web-footed birds 40 Gaucho gear 42 Venezuelan 
2B Warlike persons 2 Beginning for book grasslands 
32 Chemical additive or paper 43 Flag 
33 Microscope shelf 3 Formal fight 45 Actor Dudley 
34 Vigor 4 Shrill 46 Immediately, in 
35 Money 5 Bomb substance hospitals 
36 Condiment 6 Marble 47 Authentic 
37 Half of Samoan town 7 Interior diameter 48 Scold 38 "Guinness Book" of a gun barrel 49 Recipe direction suffix 8 -pro nobis 50 "-Camera" 39 Trite 9 Light, playful 51 "I wouldn't bet-" 
40 Donkey banter 52 New Jersey team 
41 Firm supporter 10 Goal 54 Whale the ­
43 English city 11 Declare out of 
LECTURES  
Tuesday 12:30 p.m. Kellogg Seminar, "Rethinking the Spanish Transition," Robert Fishman, Department of Theology, Kellogg Institute. C-103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute and the Committee for European Studies. 6:15 p.m. History and Philosophy of Science Colloquium, "The Importance of Model Construction in Theorizing: A Deflationary Semantic View," Professor Steve Downes, Department of Philosophy, Northwestern University. Sponsored by the Reilly Center for Science, Technology and Values.  
Please Recycle This Newspaper. -Thank You.  


''THE SHIRT'' 

liIR.li§ JHI 
ONSALENOW 9-5 pm at the Student Government Office 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Cost is $5.00


Sports 

page 16 Tuesday, April 14, 1992 
• 
; 
JIM VOGL 
And Now a Word From 

Questions linger in wrestling controversy 
Last Friday's news that the Notre Dame 
athletic department would discontinue 
the varsity wrestling program struck as a 
reality check for this school and college 
athletics in general. 

When one mentions Notre Dame 
athletics. people think success, tradition, 
and power. athletic programs that are 
invineible, elean. honest. open, and 
reliable. 

But recent occurrences prove that in the business of college athletics, these ideals are impossible to maintain, even for thn mighty University of Notre Uame. 
Coach Fran McCann. in the business for 23 years. had a realistic perspective. 
"When you're dealing with college athletics, you know there's always going to be cutbacks. which I did," he said. 
"When you're coaching a non-revenue sport, you're a fool to think otherwise. But you don't expect to get dropped. But it's an administrational decision and I can understand it fully." 
Instead. McCann blames the unpredictable system of college athletics. 
"I think we're sending a real message. With Title Nine (an NCM regulation that tries to push bigger non-revenue programs and an equal distribution of men's and women's teams), it puts a real burden on athletic departments; they're put in a real tough situation today and we (Notre Dame) are not excluded." 
As McCann explains, Notre Dame, in a way. is in an even more difficult situation. 
"This is a private institution and things are more expensive, like the grant-in-aid being costly, more so than at a state school." 
After an eight-year term, McCann has accepted the decision, a demotion to the 
P.E. department and a cut in salary. But many others have expressed bitterness, frustration and confusion in trying to swallow the decision. 
Senior Marcus Gowens, the ninth wrestler in Irish history to eclipse the 100-career victory mark, was outraged and outspoken when he heard the program would be discontinued. 
"The basic bottom line is this: Rosenthal's release gives no valid reason. It has completely ruined the lives of the group of guys on the team. They now have to make decisions they shouldn't be forced to make," he said. 
While financial considerations are usually the most prominent cause of such a deeision. McCann, Gowens and Sports Information director John Heisler denied that money was a primary concern. 
The wrestling program had been funded over eight years ago by an estimated $3 million endowment (while Gene Corrigan was still AD) from the late Bucky O'Connor with somewhat ambiguous direction, according to Brian 
see WRESTLING/page 14 
INSIDE SPORTS 

• 
Rugby reaches Sweet 16 see page 14 

• 
Strong performance by 


golfers see page 13 
• 
Men's track impresses see page 12 

• 
SMC softball drops two see page 13 


Record-setting lax squad tops Stony Brook 
l' By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
1.'·' 1:·, 
Sports Writer 

' 
It was a monumental day for the Notre Dame lacrosse team. 
Senior attackman Mike Sullivan became the Notre Dame career scoring leader and the Irish tied the Notre Dame record for consecutive wins in a season with six. 
These accolades came at the expense of an ov!H­matched Stony Brook team, which fell to the Irish 14-3 at Moose Krause Stadium. 
The Patriots entered the game hoping their matchup with the 22nd-ranked Irish would yield similar rt~sults to their upset win against Michigan State earlier in the season, but Notre Dame quickly dismissed any thoughts of that. bolting to a 5-0 lead at the end of the first period. 
A goal by Randy Colley push1~d the lead to six to open the second quarter. before Tim Kolm broke the ice for the Patriots with 11:27 to go in the period. Stony Brook managed another goal in the period. but two goals from the Irish attack kept the lead at six, 8-2. 
The latter of those goals came from Sullivan as he passed Joe Franklin on the all-time scoring list. Sullivan's 162nd point came 

The Observer/Jake Peters on a quick righthanded shot Senior attacker and co-captain Mike Sullivan, shown here against Mount Saint Mary's, broke the all-time from the left side of the net, scoring record in 22nd-ranked Notre Dame's 14-3 victory over Stony Brook yesterday afternoon. see LAX! page 12 
Irish softball wins three at Creighton Invitational 
By JIM VOGL some pretty 
Sherri Quinn, and finally produced runs Assistant Sports Editor disappointing in the top of the seventh and eighth to games this ice the extra-inning victory. 
The Notre Dame softball team (21-17) year (Western "Sherri started out the season as our returned from the Creighton Michigan, designated-player," said Boulac. "Two Invitational in Omaha, Ne. with a strong Bowling years ago she hit the ball a ton for us 3-1 showing. Green)." (.328 average, 4 homers), but she 
After winning their first game 2-1 "Staci struggled a bit last year. This year she's 
against Creighton (15-23), the Irish got (Alford) starting to find her stroke again." shut out 2-0 by Nebraska pitchers pitched very Quinn, with a 4-for-7 performance at Emily Manon and Lisa Shandy. fine (in the Omaha, raised her season average to 
On Sunday, Notre Dame dismantled Nebraska Sherrl Quinn .263. Missouri-KC (8-20) and nipped local game) but we Another revitalized bat in the Irish rival DePaul, 2-1, to assure no worse had some bad mental errors," said lineup belongs to senior shortstop Ruth than a second-place finish depending Boulac, whose team team committed Kmak, whom Boulac demoted from on the outcome of Nebraska's final four errors leading to both unearned cleanup to ninth to take some pressure game. runs. off her. Kmak went 5-for-10 and is now 
"Nebraska and Creighton are two of While the other three teams were second on the team with a .289 the more stable programs in the first-time Irish opponents, DePaul average. country," said Irish coach Brian Boulac, offered some familiar faces. Notre Valparaiso plays host to the Irish at 
"We seem to play up to our Dame's one-run victory cut the Blue 3:30 p.m. today. The Crusaders (7-21) opponent," he explained, regarding his Demons series advantage to 8-4. return just one of 13 last year's letter­team's performances against nationally­In that game, Alford and Demons' winners, and they are led by Erin Reiter ranked teams such as North and South hurler Missy Nowak battled through (3-9, 2.31 ERA) on the hill and Carolina, Southwest Louisiana and eight innings. The Irish pounded out outfielder Krista Bane (.296, 6 RBI) at Northern Illinois. "But we've also had ten hits, including three from junior the dish. 
Women's tennis splits weekend matches 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame women's tennis team is on the court, you can usually pencil in wins from Melissa Harris and Lisa Tholen at number-one and number-four singles, respectively. 
Unfortunately, on Saturday against number-23 LSU, they were the only Irish players to notch victories in a 7-2 loss. 
"Those two have really lost very few matches," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "We just needed to get a few more wins." 
One place they expected those wins to come from was the doubles competition, but they weren't able to win a match. 
"Our number two doubles team played really well," Louderback said. "At number one we played a little tired and we just never seemed to get going at number three." The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz 
It was a different story on Sunday against South Sophomore Christy Faustmann, seen here against Tennessee, chalked up a straight-set third singles win in a match at South Alabama. 
see TENNIS/page 14 







