

~.!l4~t

-Q8·
1842· IQ92 
---1%1---
SESQUICENTENNIAl 

eObserver 
Saint Marx's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME•INOIANA 

VOL. XXIV NO. 109 rtJ b · l 08] 
WEDNESDAY , MARCH 4, 1992 
\ THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Alumni wins Iceberg Debate final 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT News Writer 
Alumni Hall defeated St. Ed­ward's Hall by a margin of four to one in the Iceberg Debates final round by arguing that an increased emphasis on research at the University of Notre Dame will be beneficial to its undergraduate program: 
Alumni took the negative po­sition on the resolution, "The University of Notre Dame's move to a national Catholic re­search university will be detri­mental to Notre Dame's under­graduate program." 
Freshman Sean Dempsey and junior Hugh McGowan spoke for Alumni, while freshman 
E.L. Chaffee and senior Ron Severino spoke for St. Ed's. They presented their positions on the resolution before five judges. 
In taking the negative position, Alumni's team empha­sized that research improves learning because as professors conduct their research, they in­crease the amount of knowl­edge made available to their students. 
Alumni also argued that Notre Dame's long--term goal of establishing itself as a national research university will attract better faculty and create a 
see ALUMNI I page 7 


(AP) -Paul Tsongas won Maryland's presidential primary Tuesday night and Bill Clinton countered in Georgia as Democratic rivals battled coast­to-coast for frorit-runner credentials. President Bush swept three Republican pri­maries, but Patrick Buchanan vowed to press his conservative challenge. 
Bush said his triple-header victory in Georgia, Maryland and Colorado meant he was "well on our way to the nomi­nation." He added he was "committed. to regaining" the support of Republican voters who deserted him for Buchanan. 
Bush was getting well over 60 percent of the vote in Georgia, Maryland and Colorado. Buchanan's best performance was 37 percent in Georgia. 
Tsongas dubbed himself the "breakthrough kid" for his Maryland triumph, the first for any Democrat outside his home region. "They said that I was a regional candidate. They're right: North, South, East and West." 
Clinton's Georgia win was his first of the primary season, but it lacked drama, coming in his southern stronghold. He had almost 60 percent of the total
'How's my stock doing?'· vote and claimed a large major­ity among blacks. 
An unidentified student reads over the Wall Street Journal in the ND 
The Democratic list of states
Law School Library. 

voting included caucuses in 

Bush sweeps three Tuesday primaries 
• One eager voter I page 4 
Mmnesota, Washmgton, Idaho and American Samoa. 
Overall, the night's results pointed to a continuing, con­tentious string of primaries as Democrats pick an opponent for Bush in the fall. The party held caucuses in Minnesota, Idaho and Washington state during the evening. 
The Democratic also-rans, Sen. Bob Kerrey and Sen. Tom Harkin, spoke bravely of stay­ing alive in the race, despite poor showings in all the pri­mary states. "This is still a completely wide open race," Kerrey said, and Harkin said the campaign " is really just starting." 
Clinton's victory was a long time coming for the candidate who loomed large before a series of controversies stalled his campaign in January. He hoped to parlay his win into success next week in several southern states, and wasted no time in attacking Tsongas as an advocate of "a refined version of 1980s style trickle-down economics." 
Tsongas, too, pointed his campaign southward. Arriving in South Carolina, which votes on Saturday, he said he was best able to win Republican and independent votes, adding, "I'm not going to pander to them. It's not going to be an endless series of giveaways." 
Ravry, Coyle elected '92-93 HPC co-chairs 
By BECKY BARNES Council. "I don't like it," he News Writer continued. Other members cited the Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) changing role of HPC from a 
tmanimously elected Marianne "bulletin board" to a body that Ravry and Jason Coyle co­represents the students on chairpersons for next year's campus and the administra­
council and discussed the pos­tion's lack of response to rec­sibility of enlarging the role of og-nize this shift. "This organi­HPC at the University during zation has really matured ... in Tuesday night's meeting. its ability to do serious policy Ravry, currently president of making work," said Delevan. Walsh Hall, and Coyle, Keenan Council members expressed Hall president, said they would concern that the administration attempt to "normalize rela­does not consult the group be­tions" with the media in their fore making policy changes. "I tenure and attempt to give next think this would be a good body year's incoming presidents a to consult before they're going better overview of HPC policies to make a decision," said Coyle. and procedures. Ravery and "We're definitely in touch with 
Coyle ran unopposed. the students." Members cited the resolution 
A sub-committee of the Collo­concerning the removal of quy 2000 committee "Mission, washing machines in Washing­Opportunities and Challenges" ton Hall as an example where also questioned HPC. Col. Dave they heard no response from 
Woods, Director of Support the administration. "It's frus­Services and member of the trating when we go to work to committee, said that their draft a resolution and we hear group focuses on communica­nothing back," said one mem­
tion and asked how the Council ber. feels it is represented on cam­Pasquerilla East Co-President pus. Adrienne Speyer agreed that 
Rich Delevan, co-president of "HPC is heard of, not heard Planner Hall, responded that he from." has been told by Student Affairs Woods responded that the 
Assistant Vice-President of University, especially President Residence Life Bill Kirk that Father Edward Malloy, is inter­resolutions that come from HPC ested in student opinion, and have no value unless they are that their presence at the meet-
also passed by the Campus Life 
see HPC I page 6 

Bush, Yeltsin announce first summit 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­
United States could offer Yeltsin dent Bush announced Tuesday in economic aid. that he and Russian President The summit will take place Boris Yeltsin will hold their first less than a month before the formal summit meeting June 16 Democrats select their candi­in Washington. They'll try to date for a challenge to Bush in use the two-day meeting to a campaig-n in which hard times establish new momentum at home look like the dominant toward eliminating additional issue. thousands of strategic nuclear That left open the question of warheads. whether Bush would feel able to 
In the post-Cold War era, offer a substantial commitment agreements to reduce nuclear of U.S. foreig-n aid during a po­arsenals have been easier to litical challenge at home. achieve than U.S. commitments Yet, U.S. observers of events 
Boris Yeltsin 

for massive financial assistance in the former Soviet Union sug­to help Russia stabilize its At the June meeting, the two gested that economic aid would foundering economy. leaders are expected to try to have to be a priority topic. 
That could prove even likelier move toward agreement on the "We're going to have to be for a summit taking place in the broad disarmament goals each heavily engaged in the reform midst of a presidential has recently outlined. effort," said Gabriel Schoenfeld, campaig-n. Yeltsin and other leaders of a senior analyst at the Center 
Bush said he and Yeltsin former Soviet republics are for Strategic and International would "get into the nuclear and scheduled to meet in Kiev on Studies. military questions. and then the March 20. U.S. officials are . Schoenfeld said that in the joint efforts in support of re­hoping the leaders of Russia, nuclear area the United States form in Russia." Ukraine, Belarus and Kaza­has "a very clear idea of what 
Speculation in the capital was khstan -the four states with our policy is and is now trying 
that Bush would press the Sen­strategic nuclear weapons -to get the Russians and every­ate to ratify the pending will pledge to adhere to the re­one else to proceed." Strategic Arms Reduction ductions in the pending START But, he added, "With eco­Treaty (START) before the June agreement. nomics there's so many unpre­summit and that he and Yeltsin The republics' leaders have dictable things that could hap­
would formally set a subse­generally agreed that the new pen between now and June." quent goal of reducing each na­Commonwealth of Independent Bruce Parrott, director of tion's arsenal to 2,500 to 4,500 States should exercise joint Russian area studies at Johns such warheads. control over nuclear weapons . Hopkins University said that, by Bush and Yeltsin emphasized If the four republics sign a mid-June, "we'll have a better 
their mutual friendship and re­START pledge, said a Senate fix on popular attitudes toward spect after a three-hour meet­source, the Bush administration Yeltsin's economic reforms and ing at Camp David, Md., on Feb. would probably press the whether people are going to put 1. But the Russian president Senate to ratify the treaty, up with them. The stocks and also cautioned that, "if the which calls for reducing· strate­supplies that people were reform in Russia goes under, gic nuclear forces to 8,000 to relying on to carry them 
the Cold War is going to turn 9,000 warheads each. through will have pretty much into a hot war." Less clear was what the run out." 
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Tradition just as rich now as 150 years ago 
In the fall of 1987, as an 
eager high school senior, I 
came out to visit Notre 
Dame. While here, I took 
one of those student tours 
that roam the campus in the 
afternoons. Jay Colucci 
Our guide was a Production philosophy major from Manager Pangborn. He showed us------­around God Quad and then up to the North and Mod Quads. Then we walked down to the south side of campus to see some of the classroom buildings and dorms. In particular, he pointed out Howard Hall which had just recently been converted into a women's residence hall. 


After seeing most of the campus (even Carroll Hall) we ended our tour at the Grotto. Walking back up the path to the Administration Building, our guide turned around and pointed behind us. 
"Oh, yeah," he said, "I always forget. That building on the hill by the lake is Holy Cross Hall. Pray they don't put you in that dorm. It's a long walk to anywhere on campus, and the guys who live there aren't that smart." 
Nine months later, my parents dropped me otT at my new home: Holy Cross Hall. 
Probably only about half of the students now on campus ever stepped foot in Holy Cross Hall or even saw it. The dorm and its residents had a character unlike any other on campus. 
Unfortunately, the presence of Holy Cross seems to be missed only by those who lived there. In May, when the last of those men graduate, Holy Cross Hall will truly fall into the history of Notre Dame. 
As the University has grown over the years, several changes have been made. When it came to Holy Cross, however, those changes were not made well. 
Students often find that their dorms serve as a smaller and closer-knit family within the Notre Dame community. When residents of a hall are told that they can no longer live together, it is often like splitting up that family. 
In the spring of 1989, while the residents of Holy Cross were celebrating the dorm's centennial, the Administration decided that the next school year would be the dorm's last. 
To some Holy Cross men the University was ready to close the dorm immediately. 
Maintenance of the building fell to an even lower level than it had been in the past. It appeared the University did not feel repairs were worth doing on a building that was ready to be knocked down. 
Once the building was taken down, it seemed that it's history was gone as well. When moving into my new dorm last year, I was introduced as one of the guys from Holy Cross. It hurt when the freshmen thought I had transferred from Holy Cross College down the road. They did not even know there had been a Holy Cross Hall at Notre Dame. 
In this Sesquicentennial year, I hope that some people will not just celebrate the years when Sorin and the others struggled to build the University. As with the University's history from 150 years ago, it's history from five years ago is just as rich and exciting. The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 

Woman forces son's girlfriend off cliff 
•SAN DIEGO, Ca.-A woman was convicted of murdering her son's girlfriend by forcing her otT a 390­foot cliff to collect on a $35,000 life insurance policy. Virginia Rearden, 55, was found guilty Monday of murder for financial gain and faces a sentence of life without parole. She was also convicted of insurance fraud and other offenses. Prosecutors said Rearden and then­husband Billie Joe McGinnis plotted to kill Deana Hubbard Wild, 20, who lived with them in Chula Vista, by drugging her and pushing her otT a cliff. McGinnis died of AIDS while in jail awaiting trial. In 1987, Rearden paid for an insurance policy covering Wild. One day later, Wild plummeted from a Big Sur overlook while on a sightseeing trip with Rearden and McGinnis. 
CAMPUS 

Measles outbreak reported in Texas 
•NOTRE DAME, ln.-University Health Services released a public health notice today informing students of a measles outbreak in Corpus Christi, Texas, according to James Moriarity, lead physician. Students planning to be in this area during Spring Break are at risk if they have not had two vaccinations after their first birthday. 
OF INTEREST 

• 
The Solid Waste Advisory Committee of St. Joseph's County invites the public to a meeting at 7 p.m. at St. Andrew's Greek Orthodox Church, 52455 N. Iron­wood Rd., to listen to public opinion and concerns on so­lutions for the Solid Waste District. Issues will include: reuse, reduction, recycling and disposal of trash. 

• 
Danny Glover and Felix Justice will recite works by Langston Hughes and Martin Luther King, Jr., today at 


7:30 p.m. in Stepan Center. Student admission is $2 and general admission is $4. A question and answer period will follow. 
• Women United for Justice and Peace members are encouraged to attend the lecture by Dolores Grier, "Race, Genocide, and Abortion," Thursday at 7:30 p.m. There will be a discussion afterwards. 
Students who have been diagnosed by a physician as having had the measles or have laboratory evidence of measles immunity are not at risk, he said. 
S~eech team wins L.S.U. tournament 
• OTRE DAME, ln.-The Notre Dame Speech Team, represented by Joe Wilson and Sonia Miller, won first place overall in the Mardi Gras Tournament at Louisiana State University this weekend, Wilson said. Wilson placed first in poetry interpretation and dramatic interpretation of literature, and was the third best speaker overall. Miller reached the semi-finals in prose interpretation and dramatic interpretation of literature. The team was one of 38 teams participating, Wilson said. 
Kmiec agfears before committee 
• 
Attention Seniors: Don't forget to turn in pictures for the Senior Class Video by Friday, March 20, to the Student Activities Office, third floor of LaFortune. 

• 
The International Festival will be held Saturday, March 28, at the Century Center's Bendix Theater. Anyone interested in participating please contact the In­ternational Student Office, second floor of LaFortune, 239-5243. 

• 
Feeling under pressure from upcoming exams and papers? Counseline, an audio tape service of the Uni­versity Counseling Center, offers these tapes: #30, "Anxiety and possible ways to cope with it;" # 37, "Relaxation Exercises;" and #38, "Coping with Stress." Call 239-7793 and ask for the above tape numbers. 


Today's Staff Production News Lisa Bourdon Paul Pearson Kristin Lynch Steve Zavstoski 
Frank Rivera Sports Graphics Rolando de Aguiar Beth Duane Accent VIewpoint Patrick Moran Rich Riley Paige Smoron Brian Stalter Anna Marie Tabor Cheryl Moser Lab Tech Systems David Le..;;e_______;.;M.;.;;ik~e~M~urp;.,;:;.;.;h,_y__ 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/March 3 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 

{7
203,139,300 228.43 .23 S&P COMPOSITE 412.85 .. .40 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,290.25 .(} 14.98 
PRECIOUS METALS 

_ GOLD{)r $1.60 to $350.85/oz SILVER.. 1.4¢ to $4.101/oz 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1917: 75 years ago, Republican Jeannette Rankin of Montana took her seat as a member of Congress, the first woman to be elected to the House of Representatives. 

•In 
1933: The start of the Roosevelt administration brought with it the first woman to serve in a president's Cabinet: Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins. · 

• 
In 1933: In his inaugural address, President Franklin Roosevelt said, "The only thing we have to fear is fear itself." 

• 
In 1981 : A jury in Salt Lake City convicted Joseph Paul Franklin, an avowed racist, of violating the civil rights of two black men who were shot to death. (After initially declaring his innocence, Franklin admitted the shooting in a 1990 interview.) 


Wednesday, March 4, 1992 The Observer page3 
New federal government numbers point to start of economic recovery 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Reports of a big jump in the gov­ernment's main economic barometer and a surge in new home sales suggested on Tues­day the economy has begun to perk up. 
President Bush, under attack from presidential candidates from both parties for his han­dling of the economy, welcomed the reports, saying, "It's nice to have some encouraging news." 
But analysts agreed that any recovery would be anemic, un­like the robust revivals that followed the World War II re­cession. And Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan cau­tioned that "extraordinary forces" still make the future uncertain. 
"It looks like the economic recovery is under way," said economist Sung Won Sohn of the Norwest Corp. in Minneapo­lis. But he added, "it will be a very modest, gradual one." 
The Commerce Department said its Index of Leading Eco­nomic Indicators jumped 0. 9 percent in January after two straight declines. Seven of the as a fairly reliable -although
lndexO~ of Leading Indicators 598Sonally ad jus t9d indsx, 1982 = 100  
148  

146  

144  
142 • ~--11--·1-­ --H  
140 -· •• -o --•-•••••-•FMAMJJASOND 1991 1 Jan. '91 Dec. '91 Jan. '92 1138.81 1145.21 1146.5  ­J 992 1  

not infallible -signal of an 
approaching recession. 
The report also showed the November and December drops were not as sharp as previously thought. They were revised up­ward to 0.2 percent for each month from the 0.3 percent de­clines originally estimated last month. 
"This tells us that (the econ­omy) is not likely in fact to fall back into another recession ... or a double-dip," said Mark Obrinsky, an economist with the Federal National Mortgage Corp. 
Gordon Richards, an economist with the National Association of Manufacturers, said the report is "consistent with other evidence pointing to a gradual recovery in the sec­
Source. U.S. lJBpt. ol Comll19rcs AP ond" quart~Jr. 
11 forward-looking statistics For the year, the Bush admin­posted gains, led by soaring istration and many economists stock prices. are forecasting growth of just The index is designed to fore­1.5 percent compared with an cast economic activity six to average of 6 percent during the nine months in advance. Three first year of recovery from other 
consecutive declines are viewed post-World War II recessions. 

Nap time 
Joe Wilson, a Grace Hall junior, is caught napping on a couch in Washington Hall's Green Room. 




Senate committee approves middle-class tax cut 
WASHINGTON (AP) Brushing aside veto threats, the Senate Finance Committee on Tuesday approved a $300-per­child, middle-income tax cut that would be paid for by rais­ing taxes on the wealthy. 
The bill includes a capital­gains reduction, liberalized In­dividual Retirement Accounts and investment incentives Pres­ident Bush has proposed to stimulate the economy. 
About 20 million families would get the permanent tax cut. Fewer than 1 million of the richest Americans would have to pay more. 
The party-line vote was 11-9. 
Senate consideration is ex­
pected next week. 
"I hope the president will work with us, not obstruct the 
• process," Chairman Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, said as the committee began work on the bill, which he proposed. "But if he wants to continue to protect the wealthiest at the expense of average Americans -and veto this bill because it asks 0.7 per­cent of the wealthiest to pay their fair share -that's his choice." 

Bush says daily that he will veto any bill that raises taxes, even though his own budget calls for tax increases this year. The Senate bill would not result in a net tax increase; it would raise some taxes by a total of $57 billion over the next five years and cut other taxes by the same amount. 
"It doesn't create one job," insisted Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole of Kansas. 
· "This bill is going to be vetoed 
TONITE'S THE NIGHT! 


KA•<ROKE 
tiiGIIT 
AT THE 

ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
Ill 
AJ.UMNI ~CLUB 

OPEN TONIGHT AT 9:00PM KARAOKE FROM 10:00 PM-2:00AM 

GREAT SPECIALS! 
and that veto will be sustained. That's what the Democrats want -the so-called fairness issue," so they can accuse Bush of killing a middle-income tax cut. 
Dole even accused Democrats of tinkering with the proposed tax increase in such a way that members of Congress would not have to pay. Bentsen, prepared for that charge, replied that a check already had been made and that more than 70 of the 100 senators would have to pay more ifthe bill became law. 
Outnumbered Republicans on the committee washed their hands of the bill and urged Democrats to quickly do what they had to do: send the mea­sure to the Senate to pave the way for a Bush veto. 
"Democrats appear intent on raising taxes while doing noth­ing to improve competitiveness and productivity," said Sen. Bob Packwood of Oregon, the senior Republican on the committee. 
Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine, noted that many Republicans had urged tax cuts in the 1980s. "Now, when Democrats propose to cut taxes, we are told it's politics," he said. 
The Finance Committee bill is similar in many parts to the one that Democrats pushed through the House last week. One key difference is in the principal individual tax cut. 
The Senate bill would give a credit of $300 per child to fami­lies with incomes up to $50,000 a year; the credit would drop gradually and would not be available to those with incomes over $70,000. By comparison, the House voted a credit of up to $200 per wage earner ($400 per couple) regardless of family size or income. 
Senators included in their bill some version of all seven eco­nomic-stimulus provisions that Bush asked Congress to pass by March 20. Some, such as the capital-gains cut, are consider­ably different from what Bush wants. Others, including relief for the real estate industry and incentives for business to buy machinery this year, are quite similar. 
While Bush asked for a $5,000 credit for some home buyers, the Senate plan would give that break only to those who buy newly built homes. 

Bring own equipment if possible Register in Advance at RecSports 
------------------------------------~-----~~--------------------~-------------------. 
page4 The Observer · Wednesday, March 4, 1992 
SECURITY BEAT 

.27 

11:22 a.m. A faculty member reported the theft of some video equipment from O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
2:29 p.m. A Siegfried Hall resldertt reported receiving a harassing phone call. 
7:42 p.m. A Flenner Hall resident reported the theft of his locked bike from outside the Loftus Sports Center. 
11:45 p.m. A Zahm Hall resident reported 
the theft of his unattended book bag trom eJACC. 
/ 
FRIDAY, FEB. 28 

12:01 a.m. A Notre Dame Security offJCer transported an Injured Grace Hall resident from Loftus Sports Center to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
12:45 a.m. A Notre Dame Security officer discovered a small fire in the Riley Art building and assisted the Notre Dame Fire Department In extinguishing the fire. 
2:40 a.m. While investigating suspicious activity in the LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame Security found several students In violation of the university's alcohol policy. 
11:02 a.m. minor two car accident oc­curred In the D2 parl<lng lot. 
10:28 a.m. A graduate student reported he was the victim of a credit card fraud in which someone is charging various Items using his credit card account number. 
1:15 p.m. An off campus student reported the theft of his watch from an unsecured locker In the JACC. 
1:34 p.m. A university employee reported vandalism to the basement area in Haggar Hall. 
5 p.m. A graduate student reported the theft of his book frOm a lab in the Galvin Life Science bUilding. 5:16p.m. An off campus student reported the theft of his unattended book from the Hesburgh Library. 8 p.m. A Flenner Hall resident reported the theft of his unattended camera from a room In the Arcl11t9C!Ure Building. 
9:15 p.m. Notre Dame Security transported an Injured Air Force Academy hockey player from the JACC ice rink to St. Joseph's Hospital. 
SATURDAY, FEB. 29 

2:36 a.m. A Notre Dame Security officer transported an Injured Dillon Hall resident 
ROSEMONT, Ill. (AP) -For­aging for backing among the religious right, President Bush promised a cheering audience of evangelicals Tuesday that new attempts to expand abor­tion rights "will not become law as long as I am presi~ent." 
"Let me be clear," Bush said. "I support the right to life." It was the only time that his speech to the 50th annual con­vention of the National Associ­ation of Evangelicals was inter­rupted by standing applause. 
Bush had been invited to speak to the convention every year since he became president but it was the first time that he accepted, said Donald Brown, spokesman for the group. The White House said the speech was non-political -meaning the trip was paid for by the taxpayer. 
The last time a president ad­dressed the association was in 1984, when Ronald Reagan was campaigning for his second term. 
In the hour before he ad­dressed the evangelicals, Bush gave interviews to Chicago tele­vision stations. The Illinois primary is on March 17. 
Aside for some tailoring for his audience, there was little 
President Bush 

different in this speech from the ones Bush has made on the campaign. "Tonight our chil­dren and grandchildren will go to their beds untroubled by the fears of nuclear holocaust that haunted two generations of Americans," he said. 
He said he has kept the choice of childcare with parents and out of the hands of government bureaucrats and has appointed judges "who punish criminals, not honest cops trying to do their jobs." 
Bush praised the values of faith and family and said "we must add the infinitely precious value of life itself. Let me be clear: I support the right to life." 
He's more eager than most from the Student Health Center to the St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
to get to the voting booth
10:53 a.m. A Notre Dame Security officer 
lots. It, too, had volunteers

Bush takes tough stand on abortion 
ready to accommodate voters 

transported an Injured off-campus student 
COLLEGE PARK, Ga. (AP) -It
frOm Stepan field to St. Joseph's Hospital. 

took some transportation but
4:10 p.m. A Notre Dame Security officer 
not much convincing to get 87­
transported an injured Gary, Indiana, 
year-old Samuel Amlin to the
resident from the JACC ice rink to St. 
polls. "Know why I'm anxious
Joseph's Hospital. 

to make this trip?M he asked. "I
SUNDAY, MARCH 1 

don't know if I'll be alive next
12:25 a.m. Notre Dame Security and Fire 
year."

Departments treated an Injured Grace Hall 
Efrem Harris, a first-time
resident at Cavanaugh Hall. The student 
volunteer for Arkansas Gov. Bill
cut his head when he fell in the hallWay. 

Clinton, drove 60 miles round­
1:06 a.m. Notre Dame Security issued 
trip from downtown Atlanta to 
trespass warnings to two South Bend 
make sure Amlin got his chance 
reSidents and escorted them from the JACC 
to cast his ballot in Georgia's
Arena. One of the suspects was arrested 
presidential primary. 

on an outstanding warrant In St Joseph's 
Other campaigns, even Presi­
County. 

dent Bush's, relied on more
1:56 a.m. A graduate student reported the 
modest means to press the
theft of some cassette tapes from her 
turnout for their candidate,
unlocked vehicle that was parked in the E3 
though all were manning phone
parl<ing lot. 

banks. Sound trucks and old­
3:2t a.m. Notre Dame Security responded 
fashioned sign-waving were 
to a report of an intoxicated Purdue 
among the other tools.

University student who was visiting Dillon 
A Pat Buchanan boiler-room
HaU. 

operation phoned supporters and reminded them to cast bal­
who requested a ride, but 
He told the evangelicals that "We're not going to ride around 
he has vetoed six bills that 
and hunt 'em," said Rich 
would have allowed federal Richardson, a Buchanan 
funding of abortions but "now coordinator. 
we have yet another fight." 

Reid Warren, a spokesman for Sen. Bob Kerrey's campaign, 
Congress will begin hearings said, "We're mainly going to be 
Wednesday on a "Freedom of 
doing 'visibility' at heavily
Choice Act," which would 
traveled sites" -in other 
establish the right to abortion words, volunteers will hold up
by federal statute. Pro-choice signs.
advocates favor such a law to 
As phones buzzed in the 
preempt a possible overturn of background, Marshall Akers of 
Roe v. Wade by the Supreme the Tsongas campaign wished 
Court. 

for just another week to pro­
The legislation, said Bush, 
mote the former Massachusetts would block state laws that re­senator. 
quire parents be told about 
"We're not hauling people to 
abortions being performed on the polls or anything like that,"
their daughters and override 
he said. "Our organization was state laws restricting sex-selec­
tion abortions. 

"This is not right," said Bush. "It will not become law as long as I am president of the United States." 
House Republicans Tuesday introduced a letter from Attor­ney General William Barr stat­ing the administration's oppo­sition to the bill. 
In the letter to Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., Barr said the bill "would impose on all 50 states an unprecedented regime of abortion on demand going well beyond the requirements of Roe 
v. Wade.M 
put together on the lOth day of 
February. A lot of us have 
worked hard, but we don't have 
a slick organization." 
"Clinton's organization, it's 
been put together for months," 
he said. 
Loveless Johnson III, Clinton's 
Georgia field director, 
confirmed the assessment. 
"We're phone banking. We're 
knocking on doors. We've got 
free rides to the polls. And 
we're passing out literature," 
he said. 
Sound trucks were rolling into 
"lagging precincts" in behalf of 
Clinton. But unlike Amlin, many 
voters, even in areas with a 
record of strong turnouts, 
seemed content to sit this one 
out. 
Geraldine Boykin, a Clinton volunteer from the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees union, noted the demand for rides was lighter in many targeted black precincts than when former At­lanta mayor Andrew Young ran for governor of Georgia two years ago. 
"Our experience in Andy's race, we had over 2,000 people who needed rides," Boykin said. "But people are not that excited this time. A lot of people are undecided." 
Volunteers from the National Association for the Advance­ment of Colored People took to church pulpits Sunday to urge a large black turnout. But the organization's overall get-out­the-vote effort was scaled back for lack of money, said the NAACP's Earl Shinhoster in At­lanta. 


If you see news happening, call us at 239-5303 and let us know. The Observer 
. . . . . ...
~ 

A Spring Break y.,.....,......-to'Remember 
___.... _,.,..,.__......,_ 
kq>-~--~,.....­
•y.,.-,......,..,bc._..oobc~""" 
0< ""' dnnb alf.a your drivins sldlls. 
-~..... a dcoiplatcd dtM:< and II<' "''CT)'OflC
.T-,.._.--"<-~-·-­
when: !bey""' soin8 5.11dy. 
• __._................. aad ,.,...-owt>--<ochoose 
...,. to drink. Tho:n:'s picn<y of fun to be had Mthoot •lrohol . • -.-.-.._IIIIMloun-pollda. 
• ._,... ,.._. tricnda-lmJ*"""--•fs """of'"" 
f.uu::a tlf:l\'1 lO end .a frienc:tshjp 
• Wa.r ~ .ma bell---41's your beR proiC'CUOO .11fP.IIl5l an 
tmpaucd~. 
l'lltyll-~-..... roadoalylfyou......,thcm. 
,_ _ .--..-a.IAOCHUII.,. o....,. IOOQCI. o-r--. co~ !lOl) 17t.XIIf

• 

SADD/BACCHOSwishqs you a safcz Spring Br(lak! 
Register W ednesday 
and Thursday in the dining halls and LaFortune for a drawing for a Free Car and other great prizes! 

Wednesday, March 4, 1992 
COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP} ,..,....· Sen~ Ernest Hollings says he was just responding to Japanese criticism when he told workers they "should draw a mushroom cloud and put underneath it: 'Made in America by lazy and illiterate Americans and tested in Japan."' 
Hollings said he used the World War II image of thfl:. atomic bombs dropped QU Japan, which killed thousands and hastened the end of the war, because he wanted to show that he was tired of Japanese criticism. 
The 70-year-old Democrat, who is up for re-election in November, was touring South Carolina's Roller Bearing Co;<of' America plant Monday .y..,,.,......... 
he made the sta~•:auo:;J.~~ about 90 work comments drew apJpla·use' fti the workers at Hartsville. 
ENGINEERING MATHEMATICS 
EDUCATION HUMANITIES NURSING 
SESSION I Wednesday May 27 to Wednesday June 24 SESSION ll Friday June 26 to Monday July 27 

EVENING SESSION Wednesday May 27 to Monday July 27 
For summer Bulletin, write: SUMMER SESSIONS OFFICE 

CONTINUOUS 
REGISTRATION 
Or, if you prefer, call: 

Villanova, PA 19085I Please mail me acurrent Summer Bulletin. 
I I 
Name I Address --------------------­1 City/State/Zip. I ~-----------------~~ 
COMPUTER SCIENCE NATURAL SCIENCE SOCIAL SCIENCES 
LANGUAGES COUNSELING THE ARTS 
The Observer page 5 


Alleged former assistant testifies at Gatti's. trial 

NEW YORK (AP) -John Gotti watched from behind the tinted windows of a limousine as his henchmen pulled off the assassination that vaulted him to the top of organized crime in America, his alleged former underboss said Tuesday. 
Gotti then drove past the bul­let-riddled bodies of mob boss Paul Castellano and his body­guard outside a Manhattan steakhouse on Dec. 16, 1985, and made sure they were dead, testified. mob defector Salvatore "Sammy Bull" Gravano. 
"I told Johnny they were gone," said Gravano, testifying a second day as the govern­ment's star witness in Gotti's murder-racketeering trial. 
Gravano has violated the blood-sealed secret oath of the mob to detail how he says Gotti helped plan the assassination. 
Gotti, 51, has been acquitted three times in six years on racketeering and assault charges, earning him the nick­name "Teflon Don." But prose­cutors have never before used a witness against him who was as highly placed as Gravano within the Gambino family, the nation's. most powerful crime syndicate. 
• 
DO®l! 
Love, Pop, Mom, Butch-ND '91, Mike, Richie 





Money 


Our Spring Break Loan is back by popular demand 
(probably because it's easier than getting money from your parents!) 
• 
Only 12% APR, fixed rate 

• 
Sl 00 minimum, $500 maximum loan amount 

• 
Deferred Payments 

• 
Students with good credit or no credit-qualify 


No co-signer is needed. Bring in your student I.D. 
0 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
239-6611 • Independent of the University John Gottl 
Gravano and Gotti were parked a block away in a black Lincoln Continental when Castellano and his driver and bodyguard Thomas Bilotti were shot to death, Gravano told the jurors. 
"I believe Paul got shot first," he said. "Tommy squatted down to look through the win­dow, and somebody came up behind him and shot. He was actually watching Paul get shot." 
After the shootings, Gotti drove across East 46th Street past the restaurant, stopping briefly beside Bilotti's body sprawled face up on the street, Gravano testified. 
"I pulled up," Gravano said. "I looked at Tommy on the floor and I told Johnny they were gone." 
They then drove back to Gra­vano's Brooklyn office, where they had earlier planned the slayings, he said. 
Prosecutors charge that Gotti orchestrated the murders to take over the Gambino family. 
Gravano's testimony was in­terrupted briefly and the Brooklyn federal court jury was hurried out of the courtroom when a woman screaming Gotti's name tried to push her way in. 
The woman, Anna Carini, be­lieves Gravano killed her two sons, who were found mur­dered in a car, her niece, Geor­gette Carini, told reporters. 
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, March 4, 1992 
Yugoslav barricades down, but tensions still high 
SARAJEVO, Yugoslavia (AP) -Hundreds of armed Muslims on Tuesday took up positions on roads into Sarajevo to confront Serbs reportedly moving on the city, the center of a growing ethnic conflict over Bosnia­Hen:egovina's independence. 
A day earlier, Serb militants set up barricades in Sarajevo, the republic's capital, and fired on peace demonstrators. 
Radovan Karadzic. leader of Bosnia's Serbs, told Sarajevo TV that he called for a march on the city after Muslims allegedly attacked Serbs in the nearby village of Pale. 
President Alija lzetbegovic confirmed that Serbs in some surrounding villages were mov­ing. "They want to attack 
Presenting evidence 
Sarajevo," he said. "If the Serbs are coming, we will not sit with our arms folded." 
A policeman at one make­shift checkpoint told The Asso­ciated Press that Serbs had blocked the road leading from Pale to Sarajevo. Hundreds of Muslims also were taking up positions. 
Violence broke to the surface after a weekend vote for Bosnian independence, which Serbs bitterly oppose. At least eight people were killed in Sarajevo, a city of 600,000 that is best known as the site where an Austrian archduke's assas­sination ignited World War I. 
All sides have warned that ethnic conflict in Bosnia-Herce­govina would be far worse than 
in the civil war -in Croatia, where 10,000 people died in battles that pitted the federal army and Serb irregulars against Croat independence fighters. 
The leaders of Croatia and the republic of Serbia agreed to allow thousands of U.N. peace­keepers to move into Croatia to prevent further outbreaks of violence there. 
But tensions were growing in Bosnia, which until this week had been largely free of vio­lence. 
On Tuesday, Izetbegovic, a Muslim, accused Serb militants of plotting to block international recognition of his republic after the vote to secede from the tatters of Yugoslavia. 
The Observer/E.G. Bailey 


Professor Tom Singer and law student David Dyer participate in a trial advocacy class at ND Law School. 
Germany's foreign minister, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, called Tuesday for swift recognition of Bosnia. Genscher led the drive for European Community recognition of Croatia and its neighbor Slovenia. 
Izetbegovic also charged that soldiers of the Serb-dominated federal army, acting on their own, had joined Serb gunmen in firing on thousands of demonstrators in Sarajevo on Monday. 
The demonstrators were mostly young people who favor a multi-cultural Bosnia and op­pose Serbian nationalism. At least three people were wounded. 
The army, however, denied its soldiers fired a shot, the Tanjug news agency reported. 
At least two towns in north­ern Bosnia and roads in the Croat-dominated Hercegovina area of the republic were re­ported closed Tuesday 
Fighting in one of the towns, Bosanski Brod, left one person injured but local defense units restored peace by Tuesday evening, Sarajevo TV said. 
Earlier Tuesday, Serb mili­tants dismantled barricades of trucks and buses that were erected Sunday in Sarajevo after a Serbian Christian was killed in a wedding procession through a Muslim district. 
At a news conference, Izetbe­govic brushed aside Serb asser­tions that the barricades went up as a result of the wedding murder. 
"There are indications these events were planned in ad­vance," he said, adding that many Serbs who manned the blockades do not live in Sara­jevo. 
"The purpose of the barri­cades was to make it more dif­ficult for Bosnia to be interna­tionally recognized," Izetbe­govic said. 


Travel the World with Little Professor 
Travel guides, books, and maps to help you plan your next vacation. 
FREE 
canvas travel tote bag when you purchase a Fodor's travel book* 
•while supplies las! 


~ BOTOKPCOENTER 
W~ /refp 'YOII /ifld bools you'// iofJe
m . . 
ghway U at Ironwood; South Bend UJ.9):Z77-4488 
A member of the Uule Profeuoc funi}y of toc.Uy-owncd bookuorea. 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
ing was an example of this in­terest. 
Jim Gannon, Pangborn senior and member of the committee to convert Pangborn into a co­ed chemical free dorm, re­turned to HPC to hear the re­sults of the presidents' discus­sions in their hall council meet­ings. Most presidents reported that their dorms had supported the group's efforts although some had questions. 
Gannon said that after meet­ing with Student Affairs last week, the group is moving to­wards protesting the principle that co-ed housing is not of­fered at Notre Dame. They are also pushing for the next dorm that is scheduled to be con­verted to a female dorm within the next few years be instead turned co-ed, he said. 
Mike Collins, a representative of a telecommunications con­sulting group from Chicago, also asked for the group's input concerning the new telephone system that is to be installed at the University. 
Ideas discussed were call­waiting, call-transfering, in­stalling more phones in rooms which have more than two peo­ple, consolidation of the system between students and adminis­tration and increasing security offerings. 
Father of the Bride PG Dolly 4:45, 7:15, 9:15 Radio fluer PG-ll Dolly 4:3D, 7:00, 9:30 Wqyne"s World PG-13 Dally 5:00, 7:30, 9:45 
Toni~ht Don't Miss: 
...... 

An Evenin2 with Lan2ston and Martin" 
featwing 

DANNY GLOVER & FELIX JUSTICE 
(from "Lethal Weapon") (Actor/Director) 
(A theatrical performance by two great actors reciting works by Langston Hughes and Dr. Martin Luther King) 
Wednesday, March 4th 
7:30 Stepan Center 
Tickets Now Available at LaFortune Info. Desk Student Admission $2.00 


General Admission $4.00 STUDENT UNION BOARD 

SHEER MADNESS

G 

Wednesday, March 25 Buses leave LeMans Circle at 6p.m. 
~ Tickets $15 ~ Includes admission and transportation to and from Chicago For Ticket Information contact 
Tamie Petak or Tammy Malopsy at 284-5081 Sponsored by the Student Activities Board/Cultural Events 
Wednesday, March 4, 1992 The Observer page 7 
Former Israeli prime minister Begin hospitalized following heart attack 

TEL AVIV, Israel (AP) ­Former Prime Minister Men­achem Begin, who won the No­bel Peace Prize for leading Is­rael to peace with Egypt, suf­fered a heart attack Tuesday and was unconscious and par­tially paralyzed in a Tel Aviv hospital. 
The 78-year-old Begin, who has suffered several heart at­tacks dating to the 1960s, was in serious condition and breathing with the help of a respirator, health officials said. 
Begin is a major figure in Is­rael's history, and he once was known for stirring the Israeli public with sharp-tongued rhetoric. But he resigned with­out explanation in 1983 as the army was bogged down in the Lebanon war. He has been a virtual recluse since. 
As leader of the right-wing Ukud bloc, Begin in 1977 broke the power of the center-left La­bor Party that had ruled Israel since its founding. Likud re­mains the governing party 15 years later. 
Begin won the Nobel prize in 1978 for establishing peace with Egypt, the only Arab coun­try to reach a settlement with Israel. But he also presided over the 1982 Lebanon inva­sion, which became Israel's most divisive war. 
There has been wide specula­tion that Begin's seclusion stems from a combination of that war and depression he ex­perienced over the death of his wife, Aliza, in 1982. 
Hagai Elias, spokesman for the Health Ministry, reported that Begin's condition improved following an initial setback after he was brought unconscious to Ichilov Hospital at 7:35 a.m. 
After issuing detailed bul­letins on Begin's condition in the morning, hospital officials refused to give out information, apparently at the request of Begin's son, Benjamin, a mem­ber of Parliament and one of Likud's young generation of leaders. 
Begin's room was guarded by border police with automatic rifles. His son, daughters Leah and Hasia, two granddaughters and a few friends, including longtime aide Yehiel Kadishai, were allowed to visit. 
His daughter Leah, who lives with Begin in a Tel Aviv apart­ment, called an ambulance at 
6:58 a.m., saying her father had collapsed, according to Israel radio. 
Because Begin was uncon­scious, doctors first believed he had suffered a stroke. But at mid-morning, Ichilov's director, Dr. Dan Michaeli, said the former premier "almost cer­tainly" had a heart attack. 
"We now know that the attack made him lose consciousness," Michaeli said. He said tha:t Begin's blackout "was not emanating from the brain," as it would in a stroke. 
Asked why Begin remained unconscious hours later, Michaeli said, "There was a disturbance in his blood supply because of the heart attack." 
Health officials said Begin's left side was paralyzed. 
Since his resignation, Begin usually has appeared in public only for an annual graveside memorial for his wife and at a few family events. His last ap­pearance was on Oct. 3 at the wedding of his granddaughter, Orit. 
Begin also granted occasional radio interviews, commenting on political events and some­times justifying his leadership decisions. 
Last July, Begin pointed to the Gulf War to answer the heavy international criticism he faced in 1981 after he ordered warplanes to bomb Iraq's Osirak nuclear reactor. 
"In the days when the Scuds (missiles) fell on our heads, many understood ... that they were not right . . . and we were right," Begin said. 
Russia's first sex shop opens for business 
viet system opened up in recent years, sex manuals and soft­core pornography also emerged for sale in subways and on street corners. 
The store's seven shelves dis­played dozens of imported sex devices, lingerie, inflatable "love dolls," colored condoms and other erotica. Most items cost more than the average monthly salary of 960 rubles. 
The imported goods were not for direct sale; they can only be ordered, with a two-to three­week wait that would seem to dampen most spontaneous urges. 
The store's outer room has a counter of cheaper, domestic 
no money has been diverted from undergraduate programs to go towards research. 
St. Ed's team argued that an increased emphasis on research and graduate programs would take resources away from un­dergraduate programs, limiting the university's capacity to hire more faculty. 
Faculty members would be rewarded for excellence in re­search, they continued, there­fore they would not have the in­centive to improve their teach­ing. In addition, they argued that the needs of students would be sacrificed because undergraduate education is not items, including tampons, shampoo and sex manuals. Tiny rubber "stimulators" were selling briskly at 40 rubles each. 
"It looked like a caterpillar twirled by its tail -it's not for us," said Kostantine, a 31-year­old who was shopping with 20­year-old friend Sergei. 
Both men were disappointed there were no sex magazines. 
"There are some things here which we would have liked to buy, things that are not avail­able in drugstores," said Sergei, who like his friend declined to give his last name. "The rest is just like a show." 
a priority at a national research university. 
Ron Severino of St. Ed's quoted Provost Timothy O'Meara to illustrate this point. According to Severino, O'Meara said, "When teaching loses its importance, the students suf­fer." 
While the judges made their final decisions, an open forum was held for members of the audience to discuss the resolu­tion and the positions taken by Alumni and St. Ed's. 
St. Ed's received $250 as runners-up, while Alumni was awarded $500 and the travel­ling trophy for winning the Ice­berg Debates. 
Standing still 
Rachel Zutell, a Pasquerilla West senior, measures junior Marcus Vaughn in Washington Hall's costume room. 
~\-. F. ~c~---~,
·71 uftle ~~~ /reeK 

Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 
2/1 0 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts. '2 Bedroom Townhouses 
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 

272-8124_ 

MOSCOW (AP) ~ Russia's first sex shop opened this week, offering exotic oils and oint­ments and an array of plastic and battery-operated devices designed to help workers of the world really unite. 
Dozens of customers, mostly men, lined up Tuesday at the store, which is called "Intim"­short for "intimate." They paid 20 rubles for admission to an inner room decorated with purple satin curtains. 
Customers said such a store was long overdue in a society that had an almost puritanical attitude toward sex during the Communist regime. As the So-


Alumni 
continued from page 1 
greater influx of funds for the university, which will both benefit undergraduates. 
Finally, they proposed that research and teaching are not mutually exclusive. "It is pos­sible to have both", McGowan said, as proven by the fact that 
.,.,.EN,.ION SOPHOMORES!!! 
Looking for a great leadership opportunity? Want to be a part of the best Jr. Class event? Applications are now available for the 

1993 JUNIOR PAREN,.S 
WEEKEND CHAIRPERSON 
at the Lafortune Info Desk. Deadline: Fri., March 6. 
Experience not necessary -just enthusiasm! 

r---------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------~-----------------------------­

Viewpoint 
page 8 
-e--O.bse-~~·r­
-·Ih-. ----.1..-=Y=-~ --­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Dlractor .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LEnERS TO THE EDITOR 
Gulf War veteran responds to professor's lecture 
Dear Editor: in the weapon system's ability nothing more than the moniker until later) in military and leaders were acutely aware of 
As a veteran of the Persian to deliver the ordinance as ac­for a huge rectangular grid commandeered civilian vehicles the tremendous destructive Gulf War, I would like to re­curately as possible, the attack overlaid on Iraq and Kuwait. along the only two roads was power at their disposal and the spond to the article by Jay was not carried out, or was di­Assignment to a kill box was met by coordinated sequential potential for collateral damage Stone reporting on Professor verted to an alternate target not carte blanche to hurl bombs air strikes that were concen­and civilian casualties, and de­George Lopez's lecture, that had no chance for collat­in some sort of free-for-all. It trated by the time compression liberately made the minimiza­"Quotable Quotes, Slippery eral damage. did mean that concentrations of of the ground offensive, the tion of such effects an integral Slopes and the Search for Ethics This was no less true in Basra mobile enemy units had been rapidly shrinking battlefield, part of their planning from the in War: Fighting in the Persian or any other location outside identified in that sector; and the restriction of the non­very beginning. Yet, war and its Gulf" (The Observer, Baghdad; it was a mandatory aircrews were always given the tracked vehicles to paved sur­aftermath are and will always Wednesday, Feb. 26). element of every strike briefed. last known coordinates of the faces. The attack was swift, de­be unpleasant, inexact, and un­
I must qualify my comments As it happens, I flew the final units, which helped to localize cisive, and devastating, not un­predictable. by noting that I did not attend allied air strike mission prior to the target acquisition process. like virtually every other offen­That the Iraqi people continue the lecture itself and that my the cease-fire. Assigned to When multiple strikes (usually sive thrust during the 100-hour to endure hardship because of perspective is limited to my eliminate a certain infrastruc­with different targets assigned) ground war. this reality is undeniable. But personal involvement in the ture target located in the mid­were scheduled for a single kill the blame does not belong on conflict. However, if Professor dle of Basra (and carrying pre­box, an airborne forward air The allied battle plan was the allied forces just because Lopez's views were accurately cision guided munitions, by the controller (FAC) would provide brilliantly conceived, exhaus­the plan worked better than reported, they raise serious way), I know that not only was an on-the-scene update to at­tively coordinated, and effi­anyone had hoped. Rather, it questions about how the air the target chosen expressly be­tacking aircraft, and frequently ciently executed. To suggest rests squarely upon Saddam war was conducted which I cause its destruction would aid would mark the target itself that its unprecedented success, Hussein, for his initial aggres­believe do not characterize the the U.S. effort to reduce with a spotting rocket (Norman measured in terms of Professor sion against Kuwait, his stub­actual operation. Saddam Hussein's military ca­Friedman, "Desert Victory: The Lopez's "kill ratios." was the re­born refusal to capitulate, and 
I am a bombardier/navigator pacity, but that only targets of War for Kuwait," Naval Institute sult of unethical action by the his subsequent willingness to in the A-6 Intruder all-weather such significance were even be­Press, Annapolis, 1991, pp. participants is revisionist and permit his own people to suffer. attack aircraft and was as­ing considered by that stage. 175-6). untenable. One might ask, if his signed to a squadron operating And the rules did not view is accepted, what in­from one of the carriers in the change-when I arrived over In the case of the highways creased level of allied casualties Lt. James M. Jenlsta, USN Persian Gulf. I also stood the target, it was only leading north out of Kuwait would have made the outcome Assistant Professor of Naval watches in the strike warfare intermittently identifiable, and City, a massed Iraqi movement ethical. Science center and flag officer war so I proceeded to my secondary (not even identified as a retreat The truth is that the allied March 3, 1992 room aboard the carrier and so target many miles outside the was exposed to communication city. traffic at the highest levels of Finally, Professor Lopez's de­operational command. scription of the attack on re­
The implication that the be­treating troops along the Jahra havior of the allied forces may highway as a "shooting gallery" not have matched the "best in­in indiscriminate "kill zones" is tentions" of the U.S. leadership misleading. First, there is a in trying to limit civilian casual­world of difference between a ties is not supported in my ex­retreating army and one that perience. has surrendered. Retreating 
To the contrary, the rules for units still have the will and ca­collateral damage (defined as pability to fight, and at least one unintended damage that could allied aircraft was shot down cause civilian casualties if during the attack, as I permitted) were clear, passed personally listened to the coor­down the entire chain of dinated rescue effort on the ra­command, and repeated often. dio. If one was not certain of the Second, the "kill boxes," as 
J.S. 


target and completely confident they are correctly called, were 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'like all dreamers, I confuse 
disenchantment with truth.' 
Jean-Paul Sartre 

Woke up in a cold sweat? submit: 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 
~----~~ 

-----~-~-----------------------------, 
Viewpoint
Wednesday, March 4, 1992 page 9 

JFK movie is long on fiction, but short on facts 
Editor's Note: The following is the "Fact or Fiction D paper mentioned in Professor Ward's column that appeared last Thursday involving the JFK's shooting: 
Movie: The gun could not be aimed and fired within the short time period, the movie emphasizing 5.6 seconds. It was also inaccurate and gov­ernment marksmen could not duplicate Oswald's shots on a test firing range. 
Evidence: Both the Warren Commission, and the House Se­lect Committee found it took experts using the Mannlicher­Carcano only 2.3 seconds to eject the previous cartridge, slide another bullet into the fir­ing chamber, aim and fire. Since the first bullet was most probably already in the firing chamber, Oswald had enough time to get off three shots. 
Three U.S. infantry master ri­flemen tested the Mannlicher for the Warren Commission, aiming from an elevated tower at targets placed up to 265 feet away, duplicating the various distances the president was from the gun at the time he is believed to have been hit. None of the marksmen was familiar with the weapon. 
In the first four attempts, firing as quickly as possible, they hit the first and third tar­gets, but missed the second by inches. In a later test, an FBI expert using the rifle was able to place four groups of three shots within a diameter of three to five inches on a stationary target 300 feet away. The sight of the gun was not properly aligned, but this could have actually made Oswald's shooting more accurate because of the angle he was firing. 
It should be noted that Oswald's first shot happened at Zapruder frame number 186. The second shot at frame num­ber 230, and the third shot, the one that struck the President in the head, was at frame number 313. 
The 8mm Bell and Howell home movie camera used by Abraham Zapruder operated at 
18.3 frames per second. A little simple math shows that the time elapsed between the first and second shots was 2.4 sec­onds, and between the second and third shots was 4.53 sec­onds. This 6.93 seconds cer­tainly gave Oswald enough time to fire all three shots, consider­ing that his third shot was only 265 feet away. I personally have been able to duplicate his feat in less than 6.5 seconds. 
Movie: The Zapruder film shows Kennedy's head jerking backward when he is hit by the second bullet. This "proves" he was shot from the right front, probably from a nearby grassy knoll. 
Evidence: The House Select Committee assembled a panel of pathologists to review the Zapruder film and evidence re­lated to the shot to Kennedy's head. Of nine pathologists on the panel, eight concluded that the bullet hit the President's head from the rear. 
The sole dissenter became a consultant for Oliver Stone. Pictures of Kennedy's brain taken at the autopsy show the left hemisphere intact and the right hemisphere almost com­pletely destroyed. There was a violent straightening and stiff­ening of Kennedy's entire body as a result of a seizure-like neuromuscular reaction to ma­jor damage inflicted to nerve centers in the brain. 
This is consistent with a shot that would hit the right side of the president's head, coming straight from the rear. And the neutron activation analysis said it was "highly likely" one of the bullet fragments found on the floor and a bullet sliver found in the president's brain were part of the same bullet. 
In 1979, the House Select Committee determined that with a 95 percent certainty a fourth shot came from the Grassy Knoll. Such findings were based on a dictabelt recording from an open micro­phone of a Dallas patrolman, H. 
M. McClain, who was riding a motorcycle in the Kennedy motorcade. Such recording was later ruled invalid by the Na­tional Academy of Science and Department of Justice. There is absolutely no physical evidence to support that any shot was fired from the Grassy Knoll. 
Movie: One bullet, dubbed "the magic bullet", could not possibly have hit both Kennedy and Connally as described and emphasized in the movie, be­cause of the positions in which the men were seated in the car and because it was found nearly intact. 
Evidence: The standard Mannlicher-Carcano bullet weighs 160-161 grains. The so­called "magic bullet" found in the hospital weighed 158. 6 grains. Two minute fragments were recovered from Connally's wrist. Neutron activation anal­ysis showed it was "highly likely" the bullet that left slivers in Connally's wrist was the one found near the stretcher Con­nally was brought in on. 
Ballistics experts said this bullet was fired from the rifle found on the sixth floor of the Depository buiilding to the ex­clusion of all other rifles in the world. 
Doctors treating Kennedy that afternoon at first told the news media they saw a wound in the lower part of his throat which they guessed may have been an entrance wound. 
They conceded, however, that they were so busy trying to keep the president alive that they didn't even turn him over on the stretcher and did not see what the autopsy later determined was the entrance wound in his upper back. The doctors' early statement, through, gave rise to reports that Kennedy had been hit from the front, indicating another gunman. 
The autopsy, though, con­cluded the bullet had gone through Kennedy's neck without encountering bone and had emerged to strike Connally with great velocity. 
Still pictures and the Za­pruder film (frame 230) were able to show that about the time Connally appears to have been hit, he had turned his body to the right, still in a seated po­sition, with his right hand on his left thigh. 
This, the pictures show, put him at an angle such that the shot passing through Kennedy's throat could have hit Connally just as described by the Warren Commission. It is possible that the rifle bullet could have penetrated Kennedy and Connally with little distortion. There is no physical evidence of any other bullets being round anywhere. 
Movie: A "Col. X" with high­level government connections explained to Garrison the na­ture of the conspiracy against Kennedy. 
Evidence: Col. X is a compos­ite character, loosely based on a retired military officer, L. Fletcher Prouty. He did not 

James Ward 
Guest Columnist 

meet with New Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrison. 
Movie: Oswald had unusual dealings with the Soviet Union, including defecting to that country and obtaining easy readmission to the United States. 
Evidence: This. is true, but there is no connection of the dealings with the assassination. 
Movie: Many witnesses re­ported that they heard shots from the grassy knoll. 
Evidence: The Warren Com­mission questioned 171 people who were in the Dealey Plaza area at the time of the shooting. Of these, 76 said they did not know from what direction the shots came, 16 said the shots came from the School Book Depository, 29 said the shots came from some place other than the Depository or the grassy knoll, and 20 said they heard the shots from the grassy knoll. The Commission believed that evidence showing the shots came from the Depository was the most compelling. 
It is perfectly understandable that the witnesses were con­fused as to the origin of fire. Not only does Dealy Plaza resound with echoes but here you have a situation of completely unexpected shots over a matter of just a few seconds. Then compound all of this with the fact that the witnesses were fo­cusing their attention on the President of the United States and his beautiful wife. A mes­merizing event for most of them. With the chaos, hysteria, and bedlam that engulfed the assassination site, it is re­markable that there was any coherence at all in what they thought they saw and heard. Human observation, notoriously unreliable under even the most optimum situations, must give way to hard scientific evidence. 
Movie: Lee Harvey Oswald and Jack Ruby knew each other. 
Evidence: There has been no concrete evidence found to support this. There is evidence to support that Jack Ruby may have been stalking Oswald after he was captured at the Texas Theater. Because of Ruby's acquaintance with the Dallas police, he was able to gain access to the press conferences at which Oswald was present, and entry to the Police Department basement where he killed Oswald on November 24, 1963. 
Had he been able to get closer to Oswald prior to that day, he would have killed him sooner. He felt it was his self-appointed duty to save Mrs. Kennedy the turmoil of returning to Dallas for Oswald's trial. In actuality, he has created endless specula­tion as to the actual motives and means of the assassination. 
Movie: A picture of Oswald with a rifle was likely fake. 
Evidence: Analyses of the negative and Oswald's camera indicates the negative was not fake and was taken on his cam­era. 
An FBI photographic expert matched one of the pictures to the Oswald camera which Ma­rina Oswald said she had used to take the pictures. Many of these pictures now in circula­tion were retouched by news­paper publications, giving them an artificial look. 
Movie: After Oswald died, his palm print was put on a rifle used to shoot Kennedy. 
Evidence: Oswald's palm print was found on the rifle by Dallas police just after the as­sassination. It also was found on wrapping paper that had been used to bring it into the building. 
Movie: President Kennedy was considering witli-drawing from Vietnam. 
Evidence: Virtually every scholar agrees that this is not true. Kennedy made a few iso­lated statements that could be interpreted this way, but he is generally viewed as having been a hard-liner against communism. 
Movie: Businessman Clay Shaw, who Garrison alleged was involved in the conspiracy, was under CIA contract. 
Evidence: Shaw, who due to his business work was de­briefed about twice a year by the CIA, had been contracted by the CIA to provide any informa­tion he knew, but was not part of the agency .. 
Movie: Kennedy's brain tis­sue is now missing, preventing further analysis of it. 
Evidence: This is true, as re­ported by the New York Times almost 20 years ago. Interviews determined that the brain and section slides were delivered in 1965 to a representative of Sen. Robert Kennedy, who was him­self assassinated in 1968. Since the brain had been fully autop­sied, the fact that it had been returned to the family did not cause official concern. 
Movie: Phone lines in Wash­ington, D. C., were out for an hour immediately after the shooting. 
Evidence: This is not true. 
Movie: Oswald could not possibly have hidden the gun between boxes and run down four flights to the second-floor refreshment area of the Depos­itory where he was found just 110 seconds after the shooting stopped. 
Evidence: Dallas police Offi­cer M. L. Baker said that it was about 110 seconds from the time he stopped his motorcycle and dashed into the Depository and up to the second-floor re­freshment area where he found Oswald breathing normally. He told the Warren Commission, though, that the time span could have been longer. 
FBI agents, reconstructing Officer Baker's movements, which included a brief search for a building manager and a wait for a freight elevator that didn't come down, also thought the time span was longer. Nev.ertheless, an FBI agent, recreating the event, did hide that gun and race down the stairway to the refreshment area within 90 seconds. 
He was not out of breath. During the late 1970's, I recre­ated Oswald's path from the sixth floor southeast window down four flights or 72 stairs to the second floor lunchroom. Such recreation was done in 94 seconds. 
Movie: Oswald did not fire any shots at President Kennedy and had no hand in the assas­sination. 
Evidence: The physical evi­dence and eyewitness testimony against Oswald is overwhelm­ing. While Oswald was consid­ered a very bright man, I do not think that he decided of his own voalition to kill President Kennedy. 
Now before you jump up and say "conspiracy", let me ex­plain. He did not have a strong sense of self-worth. During his many trips in the South during the seven month period leading up to the assassination, I be­lieve he was within earshot of some of his questionable fringe group acquaintances who made flippant statements that Kennedy must be killed. 
No one ever approached him to be the trigger man, but when fate placed President Kennedy in Dallas, and the motorcade next to the building where he worked, he seized the opportu­nity to make a name for him­self. Those people who Oswald may have overheard, be they the "mob", pro-Castro backers, anti-Castro rebels, former CIA employees, pro-Marxism back­ers, etc., became by fate third party beneficiaries of the as­sassination but not conspira­tors. 
Final Thoughts: Objective ra­tional research into JFK's as­sassination has given way, has lost ground to, a highly specu­lative form of inquiry which has one "feeling more and thinking less." Playing to the emotions, rather than to a balance of reason and emotion, tenuous relationships and far-fetched theory have become the founda­tion for so-called truth, sup­planting facts, common sense, and reason. 
Having spent almost 20 years researching and investigating physical evidence, particularly all the evidence dealing with and found in Dealy Plaza on that fatal day in November, 1963, I have come to the con­clusion that for, with a few ex­ceptions in timing and detail, the assassination of President Kennedy was nothing more than we were told. 
The Warren Commission was right. The House Select Com­mittee was right as well, until it allowed itself to be misled by an improper interpretation of the August 20, 1978 acoustical re­construction of the assassina­tion. 
It is very difficult for the American people to accept that one lone nut could have pulled off the crime of the century. I would very much like to say there was a massive conspiracy and cover-up surrounding the assassination. In my earlier years of research, I actually thought that I could prove such a hypothesis. 
I did not accept any thing I read, heard, or saw. I sought to prove that science must always be the standard of proof for critically analyzing the physical evidence. While the reports of the Warren Commission and House Select Committee were flawed and riddled with incon­sistencies, they were in the fmal conclusion correct. 
We will never know the an­swers to all of the vexing ques­tions that exist today. I will quietly continue to follow any new lead that is credible in sub­stance. I believe that the "closed" files of the Warren Commission and House Select Committee will be made public. But don't expect to find a smoking gun. There will be no new evidence to show that some one other than Lee Harvey Oswald, acting alone, fired the rifle that killed President John 
F. Kennedy. 
When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, no matter how improbable, re­gardless if you wish to believe it, must be the truth. 
James Ward is a practicing CPA in South Bend and Accounting Professor at Notre Dame. 





Accent 
Wednesday, March 4, 1992

page 10 
Jeanne Blasi 
From the Playpen 


Columnist sparks giant 'protest' 
L 
ast night. Tuesday. March 24, nearly 
1,000 students participated in an 
organized revolt against parietals in 
front of the Administration Building. 

Roused by one of The Observer's Accent columnists. students met and organized a mass parietal violation to take place on "God Quad" last night beginning at 12 a.m.. the hour when parietals go into effect. 
The columnist has allegedly been suspended by the Administration. 
These brave students decided that the only way the Administration would seriously reconsider its position on parietals and co-ed dorms was through a mass parietal violation. 
The men and women brought their overnight gear out onto the quad to spend the night together. 
They sang songs such as the popular 'Kum-ba­yah' and 'If we could stay in Sorin tonight...' to the theme of the Coca-Cola theme song. 
Some students went so far as to relocate their lofts and bunk beds to the quad, as if preparing for a long stay. 
One student sacrilegiously hung a hammock between the outstreched arms of a statue on the quad and proceeded to sleep there. The student was apprehended by the Notre Dame security force. 
Consequently, Notre Dame Security was unable to arrest any other protesters because they were unable to send more than three officers to suppress the 1,000 people, since the rest of the force was "eKtremely busy." 
However, Security points out that they did send out 50 more $100 fine notices to students whose cars are improperly registered. All in a day's work. 
University President Monk Malloy allegedly brought out his basketball for the first midnight 

By JEANNE De VITA dancers into a .select The Ballet will be performing tonight at 7:30 in St. Mary's game of co-ed 'Monk Hoops.' 
Accent Writer group of professwnals, O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
University Officials expressed disbelief that the whose work expresses
students overcame their fear of expulsion. 
"the traditional Russian heritage Khachaturian, and Kuprovichus.
Dismayed, one official said, "It would be At a time when one of the 
world's foremost global powers is of classical ballet, along with The pieces promise to reflectimpossible to expel all these students. the loss in suffering an identity crisis, the modern free dance and jazz the finest in Russian and SovietAlumni donations would be far too great to risk." 
Moscow Dramatic Ballet is elements." culture as related by universalStudents also carried signs reading, "We're of seeking to sustain 70 years of O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint human experience, anage, we want to rage" to further protest the in musical and artistic contributions Mary's will host the Moscow experience which the Moscow
loci parentis policy. 
of Soviet culture. Dramatic Ballet during its first Dramatic Ballet is committed to
Aras, an undergraduate and one of the Embarking on its first North North American tour. The expressing to their North
founders of SAND (Students Against Notre 
American tour, the Moscow program planned will include American audiences. 
Dame). says. "We're only grains of sand, but Dramatic Ballet presents the several one act ballets, united bytogether we're a beach. We're tired of letting the masterpieces of Russian and a "common theme of moral "Having chosen flight asUniversity scatter us grains of sand like dust in Soviet musical composition with choice and spiritual human a symbol of the eternal striving of the wind. 
the "distinctive ballet language" renaissance." mankind towards perfection, I"It's time to unite and form a desert so that the created by the company's "Each ballet represents a wished to define the main themeUniversity Administration will get thirsty and ask founder and artistic director, Yuri dimension in the world of of the ballet as the spiritualus for a drink." 
Puzakov. feelings, emotions, and human rebirth of man as the result of his The students announced they will live on the 
relations: Man to Man, Man to encounter with the beautiful.
quad until the Administration reforms the 
Puzakov has dedicated a Nature, and Man to Society," said This is one of the main themes ofparietal policy, the revolt is expected to last lifetime to the creation of the art Puzakov in the company's contemporary art, which elevates months, even years. 
of dance. His resume includes program. man towards goodness. harmony, The bookstore seized the opportunity to market 
membership in the Leningrad "The Montagues and the and beauty," Puzakov said,
· new Notre Dame overnight accessories such as 
Chamber Ballet Company, soloist Capulets," "The Birds," and describing his piece "The Birds." 
pup tents with the NO logo, NO overnight duffie work in Moscow's Stanislavsky several smaller works, such as Tickets for the Moscowbags, toothbrushes, and, special to the bookstore, Musical Theatre Ballet, and "Moonlight Sonata," the"Adagio Dramatic Ballet's Wednesdayblue and gold 'Fighting Irish Toothpaste.' 
reception of the title laureate for from Swan Lake," "Saber 7:30 p.m. performance are stillThis revolt raises serious questions regarding Dance," and "Song of the Blue available st the Saint Mary's boxthe extent of parietals. Since parietals extend to his contributions to choreography. before founding Sea," are likely to be included in office. Tickets are priced at $16ofT-campus students. do they also apply to these the Moscow Dramatic Ballet. the performance at SMC, with for adults and $8 for Saint Mary's students living on the quad together? 
Puzakov's direction has shaped music provided by the talents of students. For more information,
Jeanne Blasi is Production Manager ofThe 
the 18 classically trained ballet Tchaikovsky, Beethoven, call the box office at 284-4626. 
Observer. Her columns appear every third 
Wednesday in Accent. 
Are you a bookworm?. 
Would you like to become The Observer's literary critic? 
The. Acc~nt depa~tJ?ent is looking for an u~dergraduate or graduate student with strong writing skills to serve as a regular h.ter,ary c.nh~ for The Observer. Just.hke fhe book reviewe~s of The New York Times, you will be the ND/SMCcommunity s voice on the world of the wntten word. If you are Interested, submit a writing sample and a one-page perso!lal statement to Jahnelle Harrigan at The Observer office by March 4. Arts and Letters maJors preferred. Any questions call Jahnelle at 239-5303. 

Accent
Wednesday, March 4, 1992 page 11 

Danny Glover, teaming with Felix Justice, breathes new lite into Langston Hughes and Dr._ Martin Luther King, Jr. 


By PAIGE SMORON Assistant Accent Editor 

Danny Glover is playing another role. No big news. Most recently, he added the film "Grand Canyon" to his long and prolific career. 
But tonight Glover's acting will take a historical approach as he plays Langston Hughes, a prominent poet of the Harlem Renaissance who still contributes to American literature. In celebration of Black History month, he will be half of "An Evening with Langston and Martin," which will be performed at 7:30 p.m. tonight in Stepan Center. 
The program will also feature actor/director Felix Justice, who will speak as Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., in an attempt to combine the emotional impact of a theatrical reading with the audience interaction of a personal appearance. Viewers are invited to ask questions of the historical figures following the performance. 
Glover is no stranger to acting. One of Hollywood's most versatile and respected actors, Glover has gained international renown for his work and become-of the busiest performers in the business. In 1991 alone, Glover had four films released. 
Some of his more memorable performances are in "Lethal Weapon," earning him the NAACP Image Award, "A Rage in Harlem," "Places in the Heart," "Witness," and "The Color Purple." Glover received his second Image Award as well as an Ace Award for his performance in HBO's 1987 presentation of "Mandela," filmed in Zimbabwe. 
He also earned an Emmy nomination for Best Supporting Actor in "Lonesome Dove." The Independent Feature Project/West's Best Actor Award followed when Glover stepped into the executive producer role in "To Sleep With Anger." In the early part of 1990, he collected two prestigious awards in recognition for his achievements in the arena of performing arts. In February he was inducted into the Black Filmmakers Hall of Fame and in April, he received the prestigious Phoenix Award from the Black American Cinema Society. 
Glover's awards aren't limited to the film industry. He relates social concerns plaguing teenagers in his annual corporate-sponsored month­long tour of the country. Earlier this year, he was presented with the Landmark West School's Albert Einstein Award for his work to helping others to overcome the obstacles of dyslexia. He has also been a spokesperson for the National Association for Sickle Cell Disease for the past two years. 
The performance, sponsored by SUB, will be tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Stepan Center. Tickets are $4, and will be available at the door. 

Are you a movie buff? 
Would you like to see a movie every other week for free? 
If you answered 'yes' to these questions, then The Observer wants you! Accent is looking for an avid movie goer with strong writing skills to be The Observer's movie reviewer. Just like Siskel or Ebert, you will be the ND/SMC cqmmunity's voice on the world of film. If you are interested,_ submit a writing sample (movie reviews encouraged) and a one-page personal statement to Jahnelle Harrigan at The Observer office by March 4. COTH, AMST or ENGL majors preferred. Any questions call Jahnelle at 239-5303. 
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, March 4, 1992 
Pete Rose's son keeps legacy 
22-year-old plays minor leagues for Indians 
TL'CSON, Ariz. (AP)-He has the same close-cropped, flat-top haircut that his dad had at this age. He has the same enthusiasm for the game of baseball. 
And in spite of all his dad's troubles over the past few years, Peter Edward Rose Jr. is prouder than ever of the name and the No. 14 on back of his jersey. 
The 22-year-old Rose is spending his first year in the Cleveland Indians' minor league system -his third team -as he tries to make it in his father's old world. 
"I'm like Pops. I'm a workaholic. I'm going to get there someday," Rose said this week. "I think I can be up there in a year and a half or two years. But if it means it takes me 20 years, I'll stay down here that long." 
Rose is a third baseman, which in the Indians' system might be a handicap because their starter at the position is Jim Thome, who's a year younger than Rose. But Rose already has a plan. 
"I heard he grew a couple 

inches and added some weight over the winter. Maybe they'll have to move him to first base. I already told Thome to look out for me," Rose said, smiling. 
The task ahead is formidable, PC~;rtly because Rose hasn't developed as quickly as some of his Cincinnati-area peers -he played high school ball against Ken Griffey Jr. of Seattle and Mark Lewis of Cleveland -and partly because of the weight of the Rose name. 
Rose was 15 when his father surpassed Ty Cobb by getting career hit 4,192 on Sept. 11, 1985. Rose joined his father at first base for a memorable hug during the nine-minute ovation that followed. 
But in 1989, just as the younger Rose was beginning his pro career, the family's world came apart when the elder Rose pleaded guilty to tax evasion for failing to report gambiing earnings to the IRS. He spent five months in a federal prison in Marion, Ill. 
"It was real tough when Dad got suspended from baseball," Rose said. "My coach in Erie at the time was Bobby Tolan, and he took real good care of me. In '90, when Dad was in jail, I went to see him and I had tears in my eyes. I wanted to take my pop home with me. 
"When I played, if people didn't like my dad, they'd take it out on me. In one place, people are chanting, 'IRS, IRS,' and waving dollar bills at me, saying, 'Bet you can't get a hit.' Nobody should have to go through what I went through when I was 19 and 20." 
There's also the pressure that comes with being named after the game's most prolific hitter. 
''I'd say to myself, 'Hey, I'm Pete Rose's son. I'm not supposed to strike out. I'm not supposed to make an error,"' he said. "But if I'm in the big leagues and I get 4,255 hits, one less than my dad, people still would say I got there because of my name." 
Rose hit .276 at Erie in 1989, one point lower than his father's average in the Penn League. "I went into the last day hitting .279, and the manager asked me if I wanted to sit out so I could beat Dad," he said. "I wanted to play. The 
NHL players threaten to strike without agreement 
(AP)-National Hockey League players are prepared to strike if no collective bargain­ing agreement is reached within the next two weeks. 
"I hope things get resolved, but it will be interesting," Buffalo Sabres star Pat LaFontaine said Tuesday. "It has come down to the wire." 
Players on at least 11 teams have voted unanimously to give NHL Players Association chief Bob Goodenow a strike man­date to take into meetings with league governors March 9-10 in New York. All 22 clubs are to take votes this week. 
Montreal Canadiens captain Guy Carbonneau and New York Islanders chairman and general manager Bill Torrey each said this week they expect a walkout if there is no agreement at the meetings. 
The players have been with­out a collective bargaining agreement since last September. 
"If no progress is made, they'll walk on the 16th,'' Torrey told the Montreal Gazette. 
"There's no other solution," Carbonneau said. "If nothing happens ... I don't see how a walkout can be avoided. If we play for the rest of the regular season and the playoffs, they will lock us out next year. Most of us really feel that way." 
The timing suits the players, who make most of their money during the regular season. The owners' payday comes in the playoffs. 
Players receive their last reg­ular-season paychecks on March 13. A walkout on March 16 would give management three weeks to reach an agree­ment before the postseason be­gins. 
The Sabres, Islanders, Vancouver Canucks, Quebec Nordiques, New York Rangers, Boston Bruins, Los Angeles Kings, Chicago Blackhawks, Philadelphia Flyers, Pittsburgh Penguins and San Jose Sharks have voted for a strike man­date. 
"Let's put it in perspective ­it was an authorization vote," Islanders player representative Ken Baumgartner said. "We don't have the intention of go­ing out. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 

must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NEEDED: A RIDE TO OMAHA OR SHARE 2-BR HOME w/ M Grad MAGGIE, KATEY, LAURIE, KAREN, SOUTH PADRE ISLAND If you're an ND student with a lot of DES MOINES FOR BREAK CALL Stdnt Garden, appls, 2-car gar. Avl JOY, MO AND JULIE (WAY OFF IN CONDOMINIUMS FOR SPRING electronicI NOTICES JEREMY X1861 Apr 1 (No joke!) 288-3878 CHI-TOWN): CANCUN IS BREAK. $25 PER PERSON PER junk/computers/appliances and you 
COMING. TIME IS TICKING. SUN NIGHT/ OFF BEACH. $29 PER want to be interviewed for an ND USED TEXTBOOKS! RIDE NEEDED TO COLUMBUS/ HOUSES FOR RENT, SECURITY AND SIN ARE ON THE WAY .... PERSON PER NIGHT/ Magazine article, call nm at 272­Buy & Sell Books CENTRAL OHIO FOR BREAK. SYSTEMS, FURNISHED, 4-8 BEACHFRONT. 1-800-422-8212. 6392 or 239-5335. Pandora's Books CALL LISA. 277-6321 BEDRO<j>MS, KEGERATORS. 287-JIM (FROM ALABAMA), 3 blks. from NO 4989. I HAVE AN IDEA OF WHO YOU to the athletic dept.: We're not Worthy! 233-2342/10-5:30 M-Sun Need a ride to anywhere in or ARE. YOU'RE SO COOL. your time is gonna come 
around NJ on Mar 7 or 8 Sat or Sun Student rental, large 6-8 bdrm. MESSING WITH PEOPLE'S LIVES. -led zeppelin We are women, hear us roar! TYPING AVAILABLE will pay gas/tolls call Jessica x2948 avail. Aug. 288-6740. YOU'RE JUST SO COOL 287-4082. BOB We're not worthy! 
Student staying in South Bend for · GRATEFUL DEAD TIX -3/23,24 Typing the summer interested in house­SUNSHINE CAB CO. marge, lush, katey, kar, mo. joy and AUBURN HILLS. I have 2 tix for 
L--,._.;_FO_R-=S=A=LE~~­
Pickup & Delivery sitting or subletting. Call Monica at 50 cents off with this ad and 4 hours julie (our chaperone?): cancun is each show. John 2719165 277-7406 283-4098. CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED advance reservation. Station wagon moments away. DO NOT SPEND 89 Mercedes ...................... $200 available for large groups. MONEY THIS WEEK. We need SUMMER JOBSIII I need painters 86 vw....................................$50 299-0202 every cent we have ... To the two Brunettes and the Blond,
LOST/FOUND 

for the summer in the South Bend 87 Mercedes ...................... $100 I am up for great sex. Where area; experience helpful but not 65 Mustang .......................... $50 Susan, ATIENTION CREW TEAM did it ever say I was looking for LOST necessary. Call Mike 684-6145. Choose from thousands starting Happy fourth anniversary! I MEMBERS PAST AND PRESENT: love? My only question for you is 
$25. couldn't have been more blessed Today IS John O'Brien's birthday. are we talking one at a time or all One bright blue te~ WANTED: FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals than I am by having you. Give him money. Now. together? "Gambler's" hat with a 1/2 inch navy Details 801-379-2929 Copyright Kristopher love and Kisses, blue ribbon/bow. Sentimental value. A 150 OF SEXUAL #IN11KJC GOING TO NORTH JERSEY/NYC the TALLER Rob. Please call Teresa, x2899 if found. REPRESSION T-SHIRT Charlie Fisher is a sillyhead AREA FOR BREAK ??? 
CALL PAT X1763 I need a ride and will help will help Garth Brooks is a GOD and we are LOST: GOLD CAMEO RING. TICKETS VOTE*VOTE*VOTE*VOTE* with tolls/gas/driving. going to see him this Saturday
I I 
IT'S VERY OLD & THE FACE IS THIS IS ITI Frank x2106 nightlllll SMOOTHED OVER. MY FOR RENT ~ 1-way ticket, South Bend to Dallas GRANDMA'S & DEEP "=========~ 3/6/92, 5pm. American: SB-Chi­FONG-TEIBEL We're not worthy! We're not worthy! SENTIMENTAL VALUE! LOST BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY DFW. WALSH CO-PRESIDENTS BETWEEN SMC BUS STOP & 219-291-7153. $50 call Chris x1658 1992-93 Green Eyes-Shwingl HAYES-HEALY@ NO. CALL ! admit defeat. Granted you are 283-5319. SUMMER SCHOOL RENTAL -TODAY*TODAY*TODAY*TODAY* quite phenomenal. Kristin, 
3 SEPARATE BEDROOMS, USE Obviously you can: bowl, kiss-up, Heartland?
1 PERSONALS 
LOST -One black leather jacket OF FACILITIES, I, myself, cannot. drink, flirt, and b-11-sh-t Liz a with wallet and car keys. Lost at KITCHEN, WASHING, $225/MO. INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. better than me-but sugar, always The Commons Tuesday night. NICE NEIGHBORHOOD Good rates. Save Money. Call me Beware NO ... remember-I have more class! Dearest Rob, Information? Call 234-2779. & HOME. for a quote 9:30-6:00, The reign of terror of -Deegan I am so looking forward to our 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 289-1993. Office near campus. BP 3M has come! Spring Break of Passion! It will be LOST: Brown framed glasses PAUL232-2794. Luv you guys, TO ALL OF MY LOYAL FANS, I so nice to finally get away from your in a red case, if found please DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO 326 APOLOGIZE. DR. SMEGMA IS NO dumb room-mates and have some call 284-5256 TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE O'HARE? CALL UNITED LIMO. MORE. I WAS OPPRESSED BY privacy. 
AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK FROM N.D.WOMEN'S CHOIR: Ash Wed. QUEEN TUT(Hill). GOODYBYE. love forever, LOST: One Birkenstock with tan SUBLET -CHEAP FOR FOUR NO BUS SHELTER. 674-7000 OR Mass-meet in robe room in Sacred Kim straps and very worn bottoms. Lost STUDENTSII DO NOT PAY 1-800-833-5555. Heart @ 4:40. See you there! HAO, LULAC, and the Office of enroute to Rockne from CCMB on EXPENSIVE DORM RATES AND Minority Student Affairs cordially Jahnelle, Thursday, February 27. Rumored to PUT UP WITH RULES -HANG BY cancun countdown: 2 days SENIORS: BEAT THE SLOW JOB invite you to attend Dr. Samuel I hope you make in in your new have been hanging in a tree outside THE POOLIIII CALL X3414-MARKET BY VOLUNTEERING! Balances' lecture, "The Many job! the Alley art building. HELP MESSAGE. SPRING BREAK-S. PADRE Deadline for Holy Cross Associates Faces of the Hispanic" on Mon. HELPIIIII If found, PLEASE call ISLAND, TEXAS. "RADDISON is Friday March 20. March 16, at 7:00pm in the Library 
GUARANTEED ALASKA JOBS Brooke at x2665. 6-7 BDRM HOME. NEAR RESORT"BEACHFRONT Stop by the CSC for info I Auditorium. A reception will follow CAMPUS. FURNISHED.272-6306 PARTIES! SLEEPS 6, ALSO 3 BR, and all are welcome. LOST: pr. of black ski mittens SLEEPS 8. DISCOUNT BY Typing Service -Experienced typist on way to Loftus from Lewis. Student rental for '92-93. OWNER. 1-212-472-1414. -resumes, papers, etc. uses AT&T ***Gooney misses you! This great weather may not last and 4 bdrms & loft. Avail. Aug. 232-computer. Epson printer. Call 656-***He can hardly wait for spring I need those mittens. 4964. We are Strong I 3158. break. Tow ropes are harsh on the ***He really wants his bed back. bare hands. Call Jeni at x4209. FOR RENT NEED A JOB NEXT YEAR? STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA -Gooney Into on semester, year, graduate, Lost: I lost 3 id cards last week with "ONLY $125 PER PERSON .... Student Activities is hiring summer and internship programs in HELPII Our ride cancelled! the names of: 259-7801 OR 255-5852" students for: Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Desperately need a ride for two to Todd Ogburn LaFortune Building Managers Melbourne. Programs start at NYC area for Spring Break! I Please Blane Shearon For Rent Stepan Building Managers $3520. Call1-800-878-3696. call X2672 or x26481 Kevin Feerick 5Br. 2 bth house Office Assistants If found, PLEASE call Brian at for next semester Sound/Light Technicians The Lizard King lives on! Down with Hiya Nicole Mastejl SMILE x3537 and I will identity them. newly remodeled, 1 mile Programming Assistants the Crustaceans! from campus. Right behind Lat. Information Desk Attendants I'm going to Gracelandl Squ. Security sys. Wash/dryer Theodore's Room Monitors I need a ride to Texas;will help 
WANTED 

call 232-8256 Disc Jockeys drive/gas. Moira x4190 Happy Birthday Herbie ...... . 
Games Room Attendants Try to keep your tongue in your AGENTS WANTED TO PROCESS COLLEGE PARK CONDO -Pick up applications at there's nothing worse than to see a mouth IIIII phone orders. People Call you. Will Ironwood & Bulla -2 B/R -2 Bath -LaFortune Information Desk. whole family torn apart by Love and sloppy kisses, Train. 1-800-727-9716 Ext 555. 24 available immediately-call287-Deadline for applications is something as simple as a pack of Liz a HAS. 0534 or 271-9268. Friday, March 6. wild dogs 
e~ it OQO...IWk. room. board & a.rl.11e N£NJ. '92 80 pg QUicie reveals most current ~vspecrs tn Fishlflg. Oil. Alaska leach'" Placootenl. Degread lObS. Consrrucl;oo, &mudl more Weulo.:tJfllo avatlable St.1IP.l!SCI.ll!".l:td agttnc~ Alaskemp Guarantee: S&we Alaslta JOb. 0' 100'1. rOIIXld Send $9 95 • $3 S&H 10 Alaskamp. Box 1236 ·X. Cc.v~~s. OR 97J39  
BIG LEAGUE PARTY PANAMA CITY! LAST CHANCE FOR $129 Beachfront Condo/Hotel 8 DAYS/7 NIGHTS FREE PARTIES! call 1-800-234-7007 NOW! VISA/MASTERCARD, DISCOVER 24 NRS. DON'T MISS OOT!  


SCOREBOARD
Wednesday, March 4, 1992 Page 13 page 14 The Observer Wednesday, March 4, 1992 
TRANSACTIONS  NHL STANDINGS  NBA STANDINGS  
BASEBALL  
American League  WALES CONFERENCE  EASTERN CONFERENCE  
BALTIMORE ORIOLEs-Agreed to terms with  Patrick Division  Atlantic Division  
Ben McDonald, pitcher, on a one-year contrat.  w  L  T  Pis  GF  GA  Home  Away  Div  w  L  Pet  GB  L10  Streak  Home  Away  Coni  
BOSTON RED SOX-Agreed to terms with Bob  NY Rangers  42  20  4  88  265  210  23-6-3  19-14-1  15-11-0  New York  36  23  .610  5-5  Won  1  22-7  14-16  23-15  
Zupcic, outfielder; Scott Cooper, third baseman;  Washington  37  23  6  80  276  227  19-10-1  18-13-5  18-9-0  Boston  32  26  .552  31/2  4-6  Won  1  22-6  10-20  19-17  
and Eric Wedge, catcher, on one-year contracts.  New Jersey  33  22  9  75  240  203  20-10-3  13-12-6  12-11-4  New Jersey  27  31  .466  81/2  8-2  Won  4  19-11  8-20  17-21  
CALIFORNIA ANGELs-Agreed to terms with  Pittsburgh  29  27  8  66  273  247  13-13-6  16-14-2  13-14-3  Philadelphia  27  31  .466  8 1/2  3-7  Won  1  17-11  10-20  17·23  
Luis Sojo, infielder, on a one-year contract.  NY Islanders  27  30  7  61  232  249  15-14-5  12-16-2  10-13-4  Miami  27  32  .458  9  4-6  Lost  3  20-9  7-23  19-tB  
CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Agreed to terms  Philadelphia  24  29  11  59  193  208  16-8-7  8-21-4  6-16-5  Washington  t9  40  .322  17  2-8  Won  1  8-21  11-19  11-25  
Wilson Alvarez and Jeff Carter, pitchers, and  Orlando  14  45  .237  22  2-8  Lost  3  9-21  5-24  10·28  
Warren Newson, outfielder, to one-year contracts.  Adams Division  
KANSAS CITY ROYALs-Agreed to terms with  x-Montreal  38  22  8  84  226  167  24-7-3  14-15-5  16-8-5  Central Division  
Terry Shumpert, second ba~eman, on a one-year  Boston  30  26  9  69  221  223  19-8-4  11-18-5  12-9-4  Chicago  48  12  .800  7-3  Lost  26-4  22·8  31-6  
contract.  Buffalo  24  30  11  59  232  246  17-11-4  7-19-7  9-11-5  Cleveland  37  19  .661  9  6-4  Lost  22-5  15-14  29-9  
MILWAUKEE BREWER5-Agreed to terms with  Hartford  20  32  11  51  200  225  11-13-9  9-19-2  10-13-5  Detroit  34  25  .576  131/2  6-4  Won  19-11  15-14  23-18  
Jaime Navarro, pitcher, on a one-year contract.  Quebec  13  41  10  36  189  259  13-16-2  0-25-8  6-12-5  Atlanta  29  28  .509  17 112  5-5  Lost  1  18-11  11-17  16-20  
MINNESOTA TWINS-Agreed to terms with  Milwaukee  26  31  .456  201/2  3-7  Won  1  21-8  5-23  17-22  
Mark Guthrie, Paul Abbott and Larry Casian,  CAMPBELL CONFERENCE  Indiana  27  33  .450  21  7-3  Won  1  18-11  9-22  16-21  
pitchers, on one-year contracts.  Norris Division  Charlotte  21  36  .368  251/2  7-3  Won  4  16-14  5-22  15-22  
NEW YORK YANKEEs-Agreed to terms with  w  L  T  Pis  GF  GA  Home  Away  Div  
Scott Kamieniecki and Ed Martel, pitchers, and  Detroit  36  20  9  81  271  209  22-10-3  14-10-6  16·8-2  WESTERN CONFERENCE  
Dave Silvestri, shortstop, on one-year contracts.  St. Louis  31  26  9  71  233  218  21-9-3  10-17-6  8-14-3  Midwest Division  
OAKLAND ATHLETIC5-Signed John Briscoe,  Chicago  28  24  13  69  209  195  19-6-7  9-18-6  12-10-4  w  L  Pet  GB  L10  Streak  Home  Away  Coni  
pitcher, to a one-year contract.  Minnesota  27  33  5  59  205  227  16-13-3  11-20-2  10-11-3  Utah  39  21  .650  7-3  Won  1  26-3  13-18  24-11  
SEATTLE MARINERS-Agreed to terms with  Toronto  23  36  6  52  191  242  17-14-3  6-22-3  11-14-2  San Antonio  35  23  .603  3  7-3  Won  4  22-6  13-17  23-15  
Calvin Jones, pitcher; Tine Martinez, infielder; and  Houston  31  28  .525  71/2  6-4  Lost  1  20-8  11-20  19-16  
Alonzo Powell, outfielder, on one-year contracts.  Smythe Division  Denver  20  38  .345  18  2-8  Lost  6  16-13  4-25  11-25  
R9newed the contract of Jim Campanis, catcher.  Vancouver  35  21  9  79  237  199  21-9-5  14-12-4  18-8-3  Dallas  17­ 41  .293  21  3-7  Lost  2  12-19  5-22  11-23  
TEXAS RANGER5-Agreed to terms with Brian  Los Angeles  28  24  13  69  239  241  15-9-9  13-15-4  12-10-5  Minnesota  11  46  .193  261/2  3-7  Lost  2  7-22  4-24  8-28  
Bohanon and Terry Mathews, pitchers, and Kevin  Edmonton  30  29  7  67  246  244  18-11-3  12-18-4  14-12-4  
Reimer, outfielder, on one-year contracts.  Winnipeg  26  29  11  63  202  208  16-13-4  10-16-7  8-13-5  Pacific Division  
TORONTO BLUE JAY5-Agreed to terms with  Calgary  25  31  9  59  237  251  14-11-5  11-20-4  12-12-2  Portland  40  18  .690  6-4  Won  24-6  16-12  22-12  
Eddie Zosky, shortstop, on a one-year contract.  San Jose  14  45  5  33  167  286  12-18-3  2-27-2  8-17-3  Golden State  39  18  .684  1/2  7-3  Lost  1  21-8  18-10  26-13  
National League  x-clinched playoff berth.  Phoenix  38  22  .633  3  6-4  Won  2  26-4  12-18  23-14  
LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Named Darrell  Seattle  33  26  .559  71/2  8-2  Won  2  19-10  14-16  22-13  
Evans hitting coach for San Antonio of the Texas  Tuesday's Games  Pittsburgh 6, Calgary 3  LA Clippers  30  28  .517  10  7-3  Won  3  21-10  9-18  17-20  
League.  Late Game Not lnlcuded  Philadelphia at Los Angeles, (n)  LA Lakers  30  28  .517  10  1-9  Lost  3  17-12  13-16  19-19  
PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Agreed to terms  Winnipeg 4, Detroit 3  Sacramento  20  38  .345  20  3-7  Lost  16-12  4-26  9-24  
with Tommy Greene and Pat Combs, pitchers; Kim  Hartford 4, Boston 0  Wednesday's Games  
Batiste, shortstop; and Ruben Amaro, outfielder. ST. LOUIS CARDINALs-Agreed to terms with Ray Lankford and Felix Jose, outfielders; Omar Olivares, pitcher; and Luis Alicea, infielder, on one­year contracts. BASKETBALL National Basketball Association LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS-Signed Tharon Mayes, guard, to a t 0-day contract. PHILADELPHIA 76ERS-Activated Mitchell Wiggins, guard, from the injured list. Placed Brian Oliver, guard, on the injured list. Continental Basketball Association RAPID CITY THRILLER5-Signed Fred Cofield, guard. FOOTBALL National Football League CINCINNATI BENGAL5-Signed Randy Kirk, linebacker-long snapper. LOS ANGELES RAMS-Signed Blair Bush, center. MINNESOTA VIKINGS-Signed Lorenzo Freeman, defensive tackle; Jack Del Rio, linebacker; and Skip McClendon, defensive end. NEW YORK JET5-Signed Donnie Gardner, defensive end.  Montreal 4, N.Y. Islanders 3 Buffalo 4, Quebec 4, tie Minnesota 3, Washington 1 World American Football League BARCELONA DRAGON5-Signed Travis Curtis, safety. Traded Stephen Weatherspoon, linebacker, to the Birmingham Fire for future considerations. Released Tim Frager, running back; Dave Johnson and Kim Phillips, cornerbacks; Franklin Thomas, tight end; and Darien Trieb, linebacker. BIRMINGHAM FIRE-Released Ken Bell, Jon Reed, Shawn Wiggins, and Lamonde Russell, wide receivers; David Fair and Tony Satter, running backs; Steve Gage, safety; Byron Holdbrooks, defensive end; and James Sherron, guard. FRANKFURT GALAXY-Released John Cook, defensive tackle; AI Jacevicus and Kelly John-Lewis, tackles; Everett Lampkins, linebacker; and Tom Whelihan, kicker. LONDON MONARCHs-Released Shane Foley, quarterback; Greg Home, punter; Ruben Mendoza, guard; and Clarence Seay, wide receiver. MONTREAL MACHINE-Signed Elliot Smith, cornerback. Released Bernard Blackmon, wide receiver; Stacy Danley, running back; Orsorlo  New Jersey at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m. Toronto at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. Los Angeles at San Jose, 10:35 p.m. Jackson, cornerback; Mike Rhodes and Brent Snyder, quarterbacks; and Bill Rudison, punter. NEW YORK-NEW JERSEY KNIGHTS-Released Tom Doctor, linebacker; Ronald Ferguson and Peda Samuel, cornerbacks; and Kevin Simons, guard. OHIO GLORY-Released David Borwndyke, kicker; Mike Estes and Anthony Spears, defensive ends; Ray Jackson, safety; Jeroy RobiMon, linebacker; and Michael Wallace and Steve Williams, cornerbacks. ORLANDO THUNDER-Signed Tony Brown, tackle. Released Brian Covington and Ernest Spears, cornerbacks; John Durden, tackle; Howard Gasser, quarterback; Derek Hill, Chris Roscoe, and Bruce LaSane, wide receivers; and Willie Walker, linebacker. SACRAMENTO SURGE-Released Art Malone and Mike Adams, cornerbacks; Theron Ellis, linebacker; Christopher Gale, defensive end; Fernando Horn, defensive tackle; Sean Love, guard; and Jeff Smith and Herkie Walls, WR.1  Tuesday's Games Wednesday's Games New York 1 02, Dallas 83 Orlando at Boston, 7:30 p.m. Washington 1 06, Orlando 93 Atlanta at Philadelphia, 7:30p.m. LA Clippers 117, Miami 116 Indiana at Detroit, 7:30p.m. San Antonio 103, Minnesota 102 Charlotte at Milwaukee, 8:30 p.m. Phoenix 112, Houston 107, OT Portland at Denver, 9 p.m. Indiana 103, Chicago 101 San Antonio at Utah, 9:30p.m. Portland 105, LA Lakers 101 New Jersey at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. Seattle 111 , Denver 92 Cleveland at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. Utah 123, Golden State 1 01 NOTRE DAME 87, XAVIER 86 XAVIER, OHIO (15-10) Halftime-Notre Dame 51, Xavier, Ohio 43. Walker 1-2 0-0 2, Williams 8-14 4-5 20, Grant 7­3-Point goals-Xavier, Ohio 6-8 (Gladden 4-4, 11 5-5 19, Gladden 10-16 0-0 24, Hawkins 2-6 2-4 Hawkins 1-1, Gentry 1-2, Edwards 0-1), Notre 7, Gentry 2-5 5-6 10, Brantley 1-1 0-0 2, Edwards Dame 5-8 (Ellis 2-2, Taylor 1-2, Bennett 1-2, Sweet 0-2 0-0 0, Wilson 1-4 0-0 2. Totals 32-61 16-20 86 1-2). Fouled out-None. NOTRE DAME (14-12) Rebounds-Xavier, Ohio 33 (Grant 14), Notre Ellis 12-14 1-3 27, Taylor 6-11 1-1 14, Tower 3-9 Dame 30 (Ellis 11). 0-0 6, Bennett 3-11 3-4 10, Sweet 12-18 3-3 28, Assists-Xavier, Ohio 16 (Hawkins, Gentry 5 Boyer 0-0 0-0 0, Russell 0-0 0-1 0, Justice 0-0 0-0 each), Notre Dame 22 (Bennett 11 ). 0, Cozen 0-1 0-0 0, Joe Ross 0-0 0-0 0, Jon Ross Total fouls-Xavier, Ohio 13, Notre Dame 18. 1-10-02. Totals37-658-1287. A-9.708.  




Oklahoma football player talks 
Calhoun's name surfaces 
McBride's testimony hurts Switzer in civil suit 
as possible UNLV coach 


STORRS, Conn. (AP) ­Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun declined Tuesday to respond to a report he has been contacted about replacing Jerry Tarkanian at UNLV, saying only that he would talk to his players about it. 
'I really don't have anything to say about it. But I would probably talk to them about what it doesn't mean," Calhoun said. 
Calhoun told The New York Daily News, which reported Tuesday that Calhoun had been contacted by UNLV athletic director Jim Weaver, that he would never discuss a job at another school during the season. 
Calhoun's name came up as a candidate for the coaching job at Virginia two years ago and at Notre Dame last year. 

BU student describes accident scene 
Olympian Charles Smith faces manslaughter charges 
BOSTON (AP) -A Boston University student described Tuesday the aftermath of an accident that killed two fellow students last March and left a former Celtic charged with manslaughter. 
My Ton, a junior economics major, testified in the manslaughter trial of basketball player Charles E. Smith IV in SuiTolk SupPrior Court. 
Jurors also heard from Smith's former college tPammate, a passenger in the van Smith was driving on March 22. Benjamin Gillery testified that he heard "a thump," but never saw the victims before or after the crash. 
Smith is charged in the deaths of Michelle Dartley, 20, of Hidgewood, N.J., and An Trinh. 21, of Placentia, Calif., who were struck on Commonwealth Avenue, which divides the urban campus. 
Ton, who was riding on Commonwealth Avenue in a taxicab, said she didn't actually witness the 1:30 a.m. accident because she was behind the partition separating the cab's front and back seats. 
The driver "told me to look in front of us because someone had just hit two girls," Ton said. She said the van appeared to stop and back up, then sped off. 
Ton said Dartley was laying face down about 100 feet beyond the intersection where the accident occurred, with Trinh about 130 feet away from the point of impact. A bag of groceries they had carried from an all-night convenience remained where it was dropped when the women were hit, its contents smashed on the pavement. 
Ton said she got out of the cab and ran to Dartley, who was laying near the trolley tracks. The impact of the accident had thrown Dartley's clothes up over her head. 
"I pulled her clothes down over her body and I saw all of 
Macri's Pizza & Italian Restaurant Pizza-Pasta-Sandwiches-Stuffed Pizza Pies 
Carry out or Dine in 

52303 Emmons Rd. Georgetown Shopping Center (next to Club Shenanigan's)
llAM-lOPM 

AUSTIN, Texas (AP) -A former Oklahoma football player said he knew of no in­volvement by reporter Jack Taylor Jr. in an alleged scheme to plant drugs on Sooner foot­ball players. 
Brad McBride's testimony Tuesday in Taylor's $30 million lawsuit against former Oklahoma coach Barry Switzer was shown to a jury during a nearly four-hour videotape. 
Jim Calhoun 

McBride, who played for the Sooners in the 1980s, said he
"Anytime a good job 
felt he was being set up by a
becomes available, Jim 
woman he was living with to
Calhoun's name is going to 
pick up a package of cocaine 
come up," UConn athletic 
after the 1988 Orange Bowl indirector Lew Perkins said. "It Miami.
tells us we have one of the best The woman has been identi­coaches in the country." 
fied as Janeeo Dior. But attor­The Huskies, who have lost neys say they haven't been able seven of their last eight games, to find her. 
host Syracuse at Hartford 
Switzer, in his autobiographyWednesday night in their final 
"Bootlegger's Boy," alleged
home game of the season. 

Taylor was involved in the 
the marks on her back," Ton said, referring to injuries. "I lifted up her hair to see her face ... there was a lot of blood." 
She heard Dartley cough once. 
She didn't want to leave Dartley because she feared the victim might be struck by another car. But looking back to the intersection, Ton spotted a red coat. "I ran back to get the coat to cover her," she said. The coat has since been identified as Trinh's. 
Asked how soon an ambulance arrived, Ton replied: "It seemed like a long time to me." Asked to be more specific, she said about 15 minutes. 
Gillery, who was Smith's teammate at Georgetown University and now plays basketball for a team in Argentina, testified that he was in Boston last March to visit his agent. 
He said that he and Smith drank two beers apiece and part of a third at a Boston bar that night. 
Gillery said they left the bar about 1 a.m and began driving around looking for someplace to get a sandwich. He estimated that Smith was driving about 30 to 40 mph along Commonwealth Avenue, keeping up with the flow of traffic. 
He said that Smith slowed down a half-block before a red light at Granby Street, but speeded back up when it turned green. Gillery didn't see the accident because, he said, he was looking down as he fiddled with the radio buttons. 
"Just as we were coming through the intersection, I heard a bump, a thump." Gillery said. 
Smith briefly lost control and the van fishtailed, he said. 
"I looked back and asked Smitty what he hit and he said 'Nothing, just a pothole.' I told him to pull over and check it out," Gillery testified. 
They stopped and Gillery opened the van door. But before he could step out, he said, Smith took off. As they continued on, Gillery asked Smith why he didn't stop. He said he couldn't recall Smith's reply. 
Gillery said both men became aware they were being tailed by a taxicab as they crossed into Cambridge and back into Boston. Cab driver Tochukwu Achebe, who chased the van and radioed its movements to his dispatcher, testified Monday. 
Gillery said he dido't realize the vail's windshield and grill had been damaged until he looked at the vehicle later from the outside. His testimony was expected to resume Wednesday. 
Police stopped Smith at Massachusetts Avenue and Boylston Street, about a mile away from the accident scene. 
Smith, 24, is charged with two counts each of manslaughter, motor vehicle homicide while under the influence of alcohol and leaving the scene of an accident. He remains free on $100,000 bond. 
Smith's second 10-day contract with the Celtics expired a few days after the accident and the team opted not to sign him to a full contract. 
He now plays for the Albany, Ga., Sharp Shooters of the Global Basketball League. 
AT THE RONKIN EDUCATIONAL GROUP OUR CLASS SIZES ARE LIMITED TO NO MORE THAN 10 STUDENTS PER CLASS. SIGN UP NOW FOR PREPARATION COURSE FOR SUMMER ISAT 
This example of personalized attentton IS JUSt one of the reasons our classes are filling up fast. Call now to reserve a seat. 
• 
40 Hours Of Live Instruction 

• 
Live Thtorial Available At No Extra Charge 


EDUCATIOIAL GROIP

• National 800 Telephone Helpline 
•
273-186~

• 6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams 
227 US 31 NORTH

• Constantly Updated Materials 
Across from Knights Inn Suite 210 
WE'LL MAKE SURE You MAKE IT. 

Barry Switzer 

scheme to plant drugs on McBride. 
Taylor denies the accusation and has sued Switzer for libel, slander and invasion of privacy. 
Co-defendants in the case are Austin writer Edwin Allen "Bud" Shrake, Switzer's brother Don and book pub­lisher William Morrow and Co. Inc. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•Sportsbriefs 
are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit your brief, your name, your telephone number, and the dates the brief is to run. 

•The 
Rowing Club is looking for wxswains for both the varsity and novice teams. Interested individuals should call Pete at 271-8466. 

•The 
ski team now has three spots open due to some individuals dropping out of its spring break trip to Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Anyone interested should call Chris Woods at 277-7089. 

•The 
Observer is looking for Saint Mary's sports writers. Anyone interested in covering Saint Mary's sports for The Observer should contact the Saint Mary's Sports Editor, Nicole McGrath, at The Observer office or at 284-5415. 

•Off 
Campus Lacrosse is looking for new players. Anyone interested in playing should contact Jim Mahoney as soon as possible at 289-7736. 

•Attention 
all rowers: there will be an emergency meeting today at 5:00 at the Main Circle. 


The Obseruer 
has positions auailable for 
Day Editor 
Contact Colleen Knight at 239-7471 or 283-4900 by Thursday 3/4 Must be available Wednesday and Thursday Afternoons 
Switzer has filed a $6 million counter suit, alleging Taylor il­legally obtained his tax returns. 
McBride testified that he "had no specific knowledge of such an attempt by Taylor," to plant drugs. 
McBride said that FBI Agent Phil Shockey of Norman, Okla. told him that he had received a telephone call from Taylor, saying McBride would be bringing back drugs from Miami. 
Ruthie Williams of Oklahoma City, who worked briefly as a housekeeper for McBride and Dior, testified that the woman met at least twice with former Dallas Times Herald reporter Dan Lagendorf. 
Lagendorf ga've her a tape recorder, which Dior used to record telephone conversations with Sooner football players, Williams said. 

Wednesday, March 4, 1992 The Observer page 15 
Mayberry leads Razorbacks to comeback win over LSU 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. (AP) ­Lee Mayberry made a school­record nine 3-pointers and scored a career-high 35 points as seventh-ranked Arkansas rallied from a 15-point halftime deficit to beat No. 23 Louisiana State 106-92 in overtime Tuesday night. 
Mayberry scored 23 in the second half, including a 3­pointer that tied it at 87 with 
1:19 remaining, sending the 
game into overtime. His two straight baskets in 
Seniors 
continued from page 20 
87-86 lead, but the senior missed his free throw, and the Irish still had to stop the Musketeers on the last posses­sion. Again, the seniors came overtime got Arkansas off to a 93-87 lead. Todd Day, who demolished LSU with 43 points in January, scored 27 Tuesday night, including 19 in the second half. 
The Tigers' Shaquille O'Neal ruined Arkansas in the first half, but the Razorbacks collapsed two and often three defenders on him in the second half and the Tigers' shooters couldn't get the job done from the outside. LSU hit 57 percent of its shots from the field in the 
up big, preventing Xavier from getting a good shot ofT. 
"It's a nice way to go out," commented Keith Tower. "We were in a pressure cooker; we got the fans into a good game. You want to go out with a W, and I want to thank all the fel­lows for giving me such a great feeling leaving this place." 

first half, but only 36 p.ercent after intermission. 
O'Neal, who had 11 points and seven rebounds in the first half, finished with 21 points and 14 rebounds. But he didn't score in the final 16 1/2 minutes, including the 5-minute overtime period. 
Arkansas (23-6) improved to 12-3 in the Southeastern Conference and is now atop the SEC's Western Division. LSU (18-8) is 11-4 in the SEC. Each has one game remaining. 
The seniors led the way throughout the game, with Bennett and Sweet pushing the ball up for easy buckets. The Irish turned up the tempo in the first half and looked to run away, building up a 40·25 ad­vantage. Ellis and Sweet were flying high, putting in 16 and 17 points in the first half, mostly 
LSU took the lead with less than 12 minutes remaining in the first half and stayed in front until Day tipped in Warren Linn's miss with 6:21 left to play to make it 75-74. 
Vernell Singleton led LSU with 23 points but fouled out with 
3:05 to play. He made four straight free throws as LSU regained the lead 84-82. Justin Anderson missed the first of two free throws but made the second for an 87-84 lead with 
1:47. Then Mayberry hit his 
on easy layups. 
"We wanted to run because we saw in the films that they were sending four people to the boards," explained Ellis. 'That's why I was able to hit Sweet in the open floor for some layups." 
Though Xavier came back and took the lead, the seniors did not lose their composure. 
ninth 3-pointer in 12 attempts. 
Mayberry missed with 40 seconds to play and LSU worked the ball to O'Neal, but Oliver Miller blocked his shot to send the game into overtime. 
Arkansas went on a 6-0 run to open overtime. 
Clarence Ceasar stopped the barrage momentarily, but Day scored again and then got loose on a break. He was fouled and the prayer he threw up was answered. His three-point play made it 98-89 with 1:43 to play. 
Down the stretch, the seniors showed their mettle, and were determined not to go out with a loss. 
"Our seniors did not want to lose this game," said MacLeod. "They wanted to finish here on a high note, and they did. They have fought their hearts out." 
Track 
continued from page 20 
Dame has the depth needed to place that highly, but to break into the top five spots, the Irish will need a little more. 
"In some of the events, we will do very well. For us to place in the top five in the meet, we will have to have some very high finishes and we have the potential to do that in several of the events," said Pian e. 
On March 13-14, three members of the Irish squad might compete in the NCAA meet. Right now, Clark, Coyle, and Herman have all qualified for the event, but their attendance is contingent on how others do this weekend. 

Clark will represent Notre Dame in the 55-meter dash. Coyle will compete in the 3,000­meters and will most likely compete in the 5,000. In the 5,000, only the top 10 athletes will be taken, but Coyle is currently one of those top ten and unless several other runners outperform him this weekend, he will be in the 5,000. 
"Clark can do very well if he replicates his 6.22 several times," said Piane. "Coyle's chances of scoring are very good." 
Herman is on the bubble. Only the top 14 high jumpers will be able to compete in the NCAAs and Herman is not among them. In order to be accepted into the meet, Herman has to improve his qualifying mark by an inch or an inch and a half according to Piane. 
Fencing 
continued from page 20 
places, led by All-American David Calderhead (33-3), who will defend his standing as the Midwest's top epeeist. 
"I liked what I saw last week­end," said DeCicco. "We need to see performances like that from them this weekend and at the NCAAs, as well." 
Sophomore Grzegorz Wozniak (23-12) and freshman Per Johnsson (9-3) should also qualify with good finishes, while senior Ben Finley (7-0) has been improving and could contest for that third spot. 
"Ben's starting to peak," noted DeCicco. "He's a very in­timidating figure out on the strip." 
As for the second-seeded women's foil squad, they will 

look for defending national champion Heidi Piper (28-3) for inspiration. She finished sec­ond to Wayne State's Larissa Lehmkuhl at the open, and there could be a rematch for the gold this weekend. 
Junior Kathleen Vogt (24-15) has a good chance to qualify, as evidenced by last week's sev­enth-place finish. Senior Rachel Haugh (24-15) and sophomore Mary Westrick (28­8), who finished 9-10 last week, also have an outside shot at qualifying in the top six. 
"In order for us to not just qualify, but to have an impact on the team standings, we must give Heidi support," said Irish women's coach Yves Auriol. 
For the Irish to finish with each of their teams in the top two and qualify all of them in the team competition, they will need a spirited effort. 
The challenge has been ac­cepted by the four Irish cap­tains, Calderhead, Chris Baguer, and Jeff and Heidi Piper, so don't be surprised to see the Irish well-represented at the NCAAs. 
"They have set an example for the team with their hard work and discipline," said DeCicco, "Focusing on an unde­feated season, and then on the Midwests, and now the quali­fiers." 

~------------------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, March 4, 1992
page 16 
Tanya Williams fails to qualify for Olympics 

Special to the Observer 
Swimming at the Olympic Trials in Indianapolis, Notre Dame All-American Tanya Williams missed a chance at an Olympic bHrth Tuesday night in the 100-meter backstroke. But the senior will try again Thursday, when she swims the 200-meter individual medley. 
Hacing for the first time in five weeks, Williams turned In a 1:04.58, which was good t~nough for 23rd place in the field. The etTort. however, did not qualify her for the event's final last night. 
Last year, Williams was ranked In the top ten nationally in the 100-metAr backstroke. 
At the 1988 Olympic Trials, Williams placed fifth in the 200 individual medley, missing an Olympic team spot by only three spots. Only two swimmers in each event qualify for the Olympic squad. 
Williams wiiJ also compete in the 200-meter backstroke on Friday. 
LAS VEGAS (AP) -Jerry Tarkanian stood courtside Tuesday night for the 614th and final time in his UNLV career, his familiar doleful look betraying none of the emotion of the end of an era of Shark­led Hunnin' Hebels. 
In the stands, Tarkanian boosters wearing T-shirts reading "Keep Tark" in bold black letters on the front and "Fire Maxson" on the back filed into the 19,000-seat campus arena Tarkanian's program was credited with building. 
A silhoutte of a shark circled around the arena as Tarkanian watched his Hunnin' Hebels warm up for the Utah State game that would end his 19­year run as the spark plug of the Hunnin' Hebels. 
"I feel good," Tarkanian said as photographers jostled to get his picture. 'Til be all right." 
Nearby, though, wife Lois wasn't. 
As the crowd rose to give Tarkanian a standing ovation, Lois Tarkanian broke into tears 
Nards come back to tie Buffalo 
QUEBEC (AP) -Mats Sundin scored on a penalty shot at 
15:30 of the second period on Tuesday night, enabling the struggling Quebec Nordiques to earn a 4-4 tie against the ButTalo Sabres. 
The penalty shot was awarded when Sundin was tripped on a breakaway by defenseman Doug Bodger after Pat LaFontaine had given away the puck. Sundin skated in on goaltender Tom Draper before firing a short wrist shot between his pads for his 24th goal. 
The Nordiques, who've won only once in their last 17 games, overcame deficits of 2-0, 3-1 and 4-3 before Sundin tied the game. Quebec preserved the tie by killing ofT a major penalty to Claude Lapointe midway through the third period. 
Jets 4, Red Wings 3 

DETROIT -Phil Sykes' goal with 5:26 to play broke a 3-3 tie and enabled Winnipeg to end its four-game losing streak. 
Danton Cole started the play by breaking through the Detroit defense. Goalie Greg Millen stopped his first shot and turned aside Cole's swipe at the rebound, but Sykes put in the third shot for his third goal of the season. 
Sergei Fedorov had tied the game at 2-2 by scoring 4:20 into the third od. Mike Lalor 
Tarkanian's rollercoaster comes to its end 
UNLV faithful cheer departing coach in his 614th career contest 
put Winnipeg back in front at 5:18, but Shawn Burr made it 3-3 just 56 seconds later. 
North Stars 3, Capitals 1 

LANDOVER, Md. -Minnesota knocked out ex-North Star Don Beaupre by scoring on three of its first seven shots and extended Washington's winless streak to four games. 
Darcy Wakaluk had 21 saves for the North Stars, who were 1-7-0 in their previous eight games. The victory gave fourth­place Minnesota a seven-point lead over idle Toronto in the race for the final playofT spot in the Norris Division. 
Goals by Gaetan Duchesne, Mike Modano and Steve Maltais gave the North Stars a 3-0 lead after the first period and enabled them to coast past the struggling Capitals, who managed only three shots on goal in the opening 20 minutes. Paul MacDermid scored Washington's only goal. 
Canadiens 4, Islanders 3 

UNIONDALE, N.Y. -Brent Gilchrist's second goal of the game with 2:21 remaining gave the Montreal Canadiens a 4-3 victory over the New York Islanders on Tuesday night, spoiling "Mike Bossy Night" at the Nassau Coliseum. 
The Islanders retired Bossy's number in emotional pre-game 
·­

near the Rebel bench. 

"I feel sad at all this expres­sion of love, all these little peo­ple," Mrs. Tarkanian said. "The town is losing something." 
Tarkanian's final game was supposed to be a tribute to basketball's winningiest coach by percentage, before a bitter battle with UNLV president Robert Maxson and his admin­istration threatened to over­shadow and overwhelm it. 
The sea of black and white T­shirts worn by fans normally clad in school colors of scarlett and gray, though, was notice of the undertone of resentment and loyalty fans had to a coach that took them to four Final Fours and one national cham­pionship. 
"Quite possibly it will never be duplicated again," said Brad Rothermel, who was UNLV's athletic director before resign­ing two years ago. "He's one of the greatest of all time." 
UNLV players paid a tribute of their own to Tarkanian, coming on court wearing black jerseys 
ceremonies, and could have used his scoring touch. After cheering for the Hall of Fame right wing, the fans went home quiet when Gilchrist scored the tie-breaker, banging in the rebound of a point shot by Sylvain Lefebvre. 
Gilchrist had given the Canadiens a 3-2 lead midway through the third period. 
Kirk Muller also scored twice for Montreal as the Canadiens extended their unbeaten streak at the Nassau Coliseum to 4-0­
1. Pierre Turgeon had two of New York's three goals. 
Whalers 4, Bruins 0 

HARTFOHD, Conn. Hartford ended a 12-game regular-season winless streak against Boston as Peter Sidorkiewicz posted his second shutout in 10 days. 
Sidorkiewicz, winless in 12 games before shutting out Quebec 4-0 on Feb. 22, made 30 saves -16 in the first period ­as he won for the third time in his last four starts. 
The Whalers went ahead when John Cullen, skating double shifts in an attempt to spark the offense, scored at 
14:49 of the third period. Bobby Holik, Mikael Andersson and Cullen added third-period goals as Hartford ended an 0-10-2 drought against Boston. 
with the word "Tark" on front and Tarkanian's old No. 2 college number on baek. 
Earlier More than 300 people crowded into a room at the UNLV campus arena for a booster luncheon, and Tarkanian didn't disappoint them, alternating shots at UNLV president Robert Maxson with jokes about the plot he alleges Maxson hatched to force him out. 
So many fans wanted into the luncheon that boosters who had eaten were asked to leave their tables so others could also sit down and eat. The turnout surpassed even the final luncheons before Tarkanian's last two UNLV teams went to the Final Four. 
Tickets were even harder to come by for the evening's game against Utah State, a game that was the NCAA playoffs, Final Four and national cham­pionship wrapped in one for the Hebels. 
Some 19,000 fans-the sea­son's first sellout -began pouring in early to pay tribute to college basketball's most successful active coach. 
Inside Tark's Shark Tank, formally known as the Thomas & Mack arena, Tarkanian pre­pared to walk on the court for the last time in an arena his successful basketball program is generally credited with build­ing a decade ago. 
"The toughest part is going to be walking down that tunnel," Tarkanian said. 
The game, ironically, was sponsored by the Las Vegas Heview-Journal, which ran pic­tures last year showing UNLV players in a hot tub with con­victed sports fixer Hichard Perry. Tarkanian has accused the paper of conspiring with university officials to force him out as coach. 
Though his sixth-ranked Runnin' Rebels were on a 22­game winning streak, the game against Utah State seemed al­most an afterthought to the controversy and hoopla sur­rounding Tarkanian's 614th and final game at UNLV. 

Please Recycle This Newspaper. Thank you. 
Ihe Obset:Ver= 
For anyone interested in the paid position of 
St. Mary·s Day Editor 
please submit a one page resume to Michelle Clemente 
by Thursday March 5 at 5:00pm at the McCandless front desk or 
Room 538 McCandless. 
Any questions... call 284·5 536 
• 

--=::::::::::=~:::==-­
1'\0RffiU Cf'nYER cfcSR lttL <fi RT s 
LIVE ON THE O'lAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM STAGE! 
THE FIRST NORTH AMERICAN TOUR 
BY ONE OF RUSSIA'S PREMIER DANCE COMPANIES 
THE M 0 S C 0 W DRAMATIC 
\ 


B A L L E T 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4, 7:30P.M. • TICKETS: $16/$12/$8 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office.  ---!It--­ 
located In O'Laughlln Auditorium. For Information  Saint Mary's Colleg~  
and charge card orders. call 219/284-4626.  NOTRE DAME·INDIANA  



Wednesday, March 4, 1992 The Observer page 17 
Pacers upset Bulls in Chicago; Spurs edge Wolves 
CHICAGO (AP) -Reggie Miller scored 23 points and Chuck Person added 22 as the Pacers surprised Chicago, handing the Bulls only their fourth home loss in 30 games. The Pacers won for the ninth time on the road in 31 games, overcoming a 22-point deficit. 
Chicago's Scottie Pippen was fouled with two seconds left by Micheal Williams, but missed both free throws. On the last attempt, the ball went off the rim and the buzzer sounded during a scramble for the ball. 
Michael Jordan hit for 27 points, Horace Grant added 23 and Pippen 22 for the Bulls. 
Spurs 103, Wolves 102 
MINNEAPOLIS -David Robinson's layup with 1.4 sec­onds left, San Antonio's only points in the final 3:25, were decisive. 
Minnesota rallied from a 17­point deficit to take a 102-101 lead on Gerald Glass' 3-point 
Tark 
continued from page 20 
the NCAA tournament if not for the post-season probation. The bottom line is simple. Tarkanian is a great college 
Win 
continued from page 20 
Gillen commented. "We wanted to get the ball to Jamie. but they were ready. 
"You have to give a lot of credit to their defense." 
Gladden inbounded the ball and the Musketeers worked the ball to Williams, who finished with 20 points. He had been on fire early, but did not do much after the Irish made a switch in shot with 5.6 seconds left. The Spurs then fed the ball inside to Robinson, who muscled past Thurl Bailey and a collapsing defense for the winning basket. 
Robinson's 25 points paced San Antonio, which got a sea­son-high 19 assists from Rod Strickland. 
Pooh Richardson led Minnesota with a season-high 27 points. Doug West scored 23 for the Timberwolves, who have lost 20 out of their last 24 games. 
The Spurs have won four in a row and eight of their last 12. They also swept all six games against the Timberwolves this season. Minnesota is 1-14 in three years against the Spurs. 
Suns 112, Rockets 107 
PHOENIX -Tom Chambers scored seven of his 17 points in the first 3 1/2 minutes of over­time, and Jeff Hornacek's 3­pointer with one minute left nailed down the Suns' victory. 

Hornacek, who scored 22 points, put his team ahead 110­104 with his last shot. Until then, Phoenix had not led by more than four points. 
Hakeem Olajuwon had 34 points and 15 rebounds for the Rockets, who took an early 12­point lead and was not caught until the third quarter. Olajuwon scored his club's first six points in overtime. 
However, Phoenix regained the lead for good 105-104 on a layup by Kevin Johnson, who finished with 19 points and 17 assists. 
Knicks 102, Mavs 83 

NEW YORK -Charles Oakley made up for Patrick Ewing's worst offensive game of the season, scoring 14 of his sea­son-high 17 points in the first half Tuesday night as the New York Knicks defeated Dallas 102-83, the Mavericks' 15th consecutive road loss. 
Washington's swarming de­fense also limited Orlando to 15 baskets on 46 shots in the sec­ond half. 
The victory was the Bullets' 11th on the road this year, three more than Washington has won at home. The Bullets are the only NBA team with a better record away from home. 
Clippers 117, Heat 116 

MIAMI-Ken Norman hit a layup with 2.4 seconds to play. The Heat led 116-115 when Miami's Rony Seikaly blocked a shot by Charles Smith. Seikaly came down with the ball but was called for traveling. Norman took the inbounds pass from Danny Manning, who scored 30 points, 12 in the fourth quarter, and put in the deciding basket. 
Miami's Grant Long, who scored 20 points, then missed a driving jumper at the buzzer. 
The Heat's Glen Rice had 30 points, but was taken to the locker room during the final seconds with an apparent in­jury. Seikaly had 20 points and 20 rebounds for Miami, while Ron Harper scored 20 for the Clippers. 
The Heat played without rookie starter Steve Smith, out with problems in his right knee, which was operated on earlier this season for torn cartilage. 
basketball coach, one who provides rare bright spashes of vitality in a more or less staid profession and his, career should not end amidst controversy such as this. 
UNLV shouldn't make Tarkanian thrown in his 
their man-to-man defense. 
"Keith (Tower) was having problems with Williams. So, we moved Phonz onto him, and it was a change for the better." MacLeod said. "Williams was just too quick for Tower." 
Williams tried to drive to the basket, but Ellis trapped him in the corner. The only thing he was able to do was force a pass to guard Steve Gentry. 
With time running out, Gentry rushed a shot from the top of the key just inside the three-point line. 
Then, freshman Billy Taylor, 

The Knicks survived getting just four points from leading scorer Ewing, just over 19 be­low his average. Ewing, who entered this season with a streak of 208 straight games scoring in double digits, has to­taled under 20 points in each of his last five games and under 10 in two of those. 
Xavier McDaniel and John Starks led New York with 18 points each. Greg Anthony added 15. The Knicks have won six of their last eight at home, but just two of their last six overall. 
Dallas' last road victory came on Dec. 23, 1991 at Houston. The 15-game road slide is the second-worst in club history, four short of the club record, set during the 1980-81 season. 
Bullets 1 06, Magic 93 
ORLANDO, Fla. -The Bullets forced 12 turnovers in the sec­ond quarter, when the Magic blew a nine-point lead in the fi­nal 1:07 by committing five turnovers when harried by Washington's half-court press. The Bullets outscored Orlando 12-0 in the final 67 seconds to lead 60-57 at halftime. The 
· Magic never got a shot off in their last five possessions. Orlando had 16 turnovers in the first half, leading to 17 Washington points. 
trademark white towel. The school will never be able to find a replacement who can even match the personality of Tarkanian. College basketball will have trouble finding another coach to dislike. What a shame, because Tarkanian filled that role so well. 
who netted 14 points, came up with one of the biggest plays of his college career, as he got a piece of the ball. This caused to shot to come up short of the rim as the buzzer sounded to give Notre Dame its seven win in its last eight games. 
The Irish were able to hold off Xavier's second-half charge in which the Musketeers turned an eight point Irish advantage with 17:07 left into a late lead. 
Gentry hit one of two foul shots at the 4:30 mark to give Xavier its first lead, 77-76. 
PUBLIC HEALTH NOTICE 
March 3,1992 

The Indiana State Department of Health has been 
notified by the Centers for Disease Control that a 
measles outbreak is occurring in Corpus Christi, 
Texas. 
If you are phtnning to be in this area of Texas during Spring Break, you should be protected from catching the disease if: 
1) you have had two doses of a measles-containing vaccine after your first birthday. 
2) you have been diagnosed by a physician as having had the measles. 
3) you have laboratory evidence of measles immunity. 
You can obtain your immunization record from University Health Services by calling 239-7497 between 7:00am-10:00pm. 
The lead then changed hands four times before Gladden hit a trey to give the Musketeers an 86-85 edge with 59 seconds left in the contest. However, these would be Xavier's last points of the night. 
"We are making a move here at the end, and I think we are worthy of (NCAA) considera­tion," MacLeod commented. 
Gillen also liked Notre Dame's NCAA Tourn(!.ment chances. 
"They deserve to be in the NCAA Tournament. Even at 14­14, they deserve to get in. I know that has never happened before, but they have had a lot of great victories," Gillen stated. 
"If they finish 15-13, I think they'll be in for sure. If they are not, it will be the greatest mis­carriage of justice in the history of collegiate basketball." 
The Irish greatly improved its position with last night's win over the Midwestern Collegiate Conference leaders. 
Notre Dame came out strong in the first half, as it shot 61 percent from the field and was three for three from downtown. 
Two of these three pointers came from an unexpected source--Ellis. 
The first came at 5:46, with the crowd urging him on, Ellis swished a three from the left side to put the Irish up 40-25. 
"They (Xavier) were leaving me open and they were pressuring Elmer off the screen, so I put it up," Ellis said. 
Ellis nailed his second trifecta from the top of the key to give the Irish a 47-34lead with 2:19 left in the half. 
Xavier cut the Notre Dame lead to 51-43 at the half when Williams hit a six-foot fadeaway putback at the buzzer. 
"I'm very proud of my team, We could of let ourselves get blown into Lake Michigan, but we fought our way back into the game," Gillen commented. 
"We phryed as well as we could, but we just lost to a team that was a little bit better than us." 
$BASIX$ 

•
IT'S HERE 
AND EVERYBODY'S DOING IT 
/~ 

~ 

I 

AR£YOU? 
VELCRO JUMPING (JUST UKE LETTERMAN) 
Wed: Penny Night, Ladies $3.00 Thurs: $3.00 60oz. Deals Fri./Sat: Whateuer Deals We Feellilce GET PLASTERED TO THE WALL RT BRSIH 1150 Mishiwalca Rue. 288-0285 

page 18 The Observer Wednesday, March 4, 1992 
Golfers travel to sunny Florida 
Men to spend break time in Orlando; women in Tampa 
By JASON KELLY Spo:1s Writer 
As the weather gets warmer, 

people begin to think about 
pulling the golf clubs out of the 
basement and hitting the links 
for another season. 
For the Notre Dame men's 

and women's golf teams, the · clubs have been out for quite a while in preparation for a 
spring break trip to Florida. 
The men travel to Orlando 

for the Central Florida 
Invitational, while the women 
visit Tampa for Northern 
Illinois University's Snowbird 
Intercollegiate Tournament. 
It was a roller coaster ride 

for the both teams during the 
fall season and they are 
looking for improved 
consistency this spring. 
At the Michigan State 

Invitational in September, the 
women eclipsed a school 
record by 22 strokes with a 
three-round score of 922. Only 
a week later, however, they 
Evans and Biondi win return trips to Olympics after Trials wins in Indy 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Janet Evans and Matt Biondi, America's swimming stars at the 1988 Olympics, won return trips Tuesday night after taking unfamiliar detours. 
They're headed back to the Summer Games but no longer dominate the spotlight as they did when he won five gold medals and she won three at Seoul. 
Evans won her 18th straight women's 400-meter freestyle in four minutes, 9.47 seconds at the U.S. trials Tuesday night after failing to qualify for the Olympics in two events Sunday and Monday. In 1988, she won a gold medal in the 400 freestyle in 4:03.85, the current world record. 
"For two days, people kept saying, 'I'm sorry, you'll get another chance,' " she said. "It felt a lot better to hear, 'Good job, Janet.' " 
Biondi came back to win the men's 100-meter freestyle in 
49.31 after finishing sixth in the 100-meter butterfly Monday. One of his gold medals came in the 100 freestyle. He set the world record of 48.42 at the 1988 trials. 
"I might be able to get some sleep tonight. That hasn't been the case the last few days," he said. "I know that there's a lot of talent in this country and if I didn't swim like I knew how, I'd 
• end up watching on TV." 
He can become the first male swimmer to win gold medals in three Olympics, having won his first on the 400 freestyle relay 
IU, Iowa ready for battle 
Iowa coach Davis wary of Knight 
IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP) -very important to him and he Whether or not Indiana coach doesn't lose sight of that. You Bob Knight is done seething can count on them being ready after his team's sloppy victory to play." over Illinois is immaterial to Knight was so upset after Iowa's Tom Davis, whose Indiana's 76-70 win over the Hawkeyes entertain the second-. Illini last Sunday that he ranked Hoosiers tonight. refused to meet the news media 
"I'm not sure there's such a afterward and didn't talk to his ballooned to a 996 total, leaving coach Tom Hanlon looking for better senior leadership and improved play from his younger players. 
Senior captain Allison Wojnas was a steady force for the team in the fall and her leadership will be needed again to help the young Irish mature. 
Sophomores Chrissy -Klein, Alicia Murray and Denise Paulin also made big contribu­tions in the fall, but they need to play well week in and week out if the Irish hope to be suc­cessful in the tough spring campaign, which includes trips to Indiana, Purdue and Ohio State. 
The Snowbird Intercollegiate will be a good measuring stick for the Irish as they face a field that includes Big Ten rivals Wisconsin and Illinois and Big Eight powers Kansas State and Iowa State. 
The men's team was as in­consistent as the women during the fall season. 
team in 1984. 

"One of my goals is to make my third Olympic team and I've done it and it makes me ex­tremely happy," said Biondi, who also won a silver and bronze medal in 1988. 
The top two finishers in each race make the U.S. team for the Summer Games in Barcelona. 
Four years ago, Evans, now 20, and Biondi, 26, had little trouble making the team. And they came back from Seoul with the only gold medals won by Americans in individual events. 
That's unlikely this time with swimmers like Royce Sharp, 19, Janie Wagstaff, 17, Anita Nail, 15, and Jenny Thompson, 19, on the team. 
Wagstaff broke her own American record Tuesday night in winning the 100-meter back­stroke in 1:00.84. Runner-up Lea Loveless' time of 1:01.17 fell short of Wagstaffs former record of 1:01.00. 
Sharp set an American record in Tuesday night's other race, winning the 200-meter back­stroke in 1:58.66. The previous record of 1:58.86 was set by Rick Carey in 1984. The other qualifier was Tripp Schwenk in 1:58.97. 
In the first two days of the trials, world records were set by Thompson in the 100 
, freestyle and Nail in the 200 breaststroke. Evans hasn't lost the 400 freestyle since 1986, but her time Tuesday night was far be­low her world mark. Erika Hansen, who already had qualified for the Olympics in the 
Led by Chris Dayton, the Irish fmished just three shots out of first-place at the Purdue Invitational in September. Their two-round total of 583 was good for third place. 
Like the women, however, they were unable to post the low numbers consistently. 
Just two weeks later they fell to eighth place at the Cincinnati Invitational, and finished 23 strokes behind Xavier at the Midwestern Collegiate Conference championships, after losing by just three strokes a year earlier. 
The late season swoon disap­pointed coach George Thomas, but he is looking forward to a difficult spring slate that in­cludes tournaments at Kentucky and Indiana along with the Firestone and Kaeppler Invitationals. 
Dayton will again hold the key to the Irish fortunes, while junior Joe Dennen will also be expected to contribute. 
400 individual medley, came in 
second. 

"For once this whole meet, I 
felt in control of a race," Evans 
said. Mark Schubert, her coach 
at the University of Texas and 
the women's Olympic coach, 
"told me I needed one (strong) 
swim to get my confidence back 
up. I was nervous in a very de­
termined way." 

In the 400 individual medley Sunday, Summer Sanders and Hansen won the Olympic berths. Evans, who won the 1988 gold medal in the event, was third. On Monday, she fin­ished seventh in the 200 freestyle. 
Evans also is entered in Wednesday's 800 freestyle, in which she holds the world record and won a gold medal in 1988, and Friday's 200 back­stroke. Her other world record is in the 1,500 freestyle, a non­Olympic event. 
In the men's 100 freestyle, Jon Olsen was second to Biondi in 49.42. The next two finishers -Joe Hudepohl and Tom Jager -join Biondi and Olsen on the 400 freestyle relay team. 
·~I had some doubts (about making the team) after my but­terfly," Biondi said. "But I just tried to remind myself of the things I've accomplished and the training I have done.'' 
Biondi's only remaining event is Thursday's 50-meter free­style. The world record he set in the event in winning the gold medal in 1988 has been broken by Jager, who also will compete Thursday. 
~ 
~ 
~ ~~~ 
..e, ~. "'~"'~-~~ 
"")) ~~e<"''t,"~~. • 
~ 16WrG•fl.w...~J,,:-·
....".........,...., 

Off-Campus shuts down Fisher in IH hockey final 
By JOSEF EVANS Sports Writer 

RecSports' version of the Stanley Cup finals was played Monday, as Off-Campus beat the Fisher Hall Green Wave 6­
2. It brought to a close one of the most competitive seasons in recent memory, matching two unbeaten teams in what, if one were to go by record alone, appeared to be a surprisingly lopsided victory. 
This has been a different kind of season for interhall hockey, as the level of play improved markedly over past years. 
"The league was very competitive (this year)," said Stanford Hall captain Brian Horvath. "In the past, there were usually only about one or two good teams." 
Fisher captain Don Held was also positive about the past season. 
"Each dorm had enough good players to have a decent team," he said. 
After the final whistle sounded Monday night, though, it was evident that no team was at the level of the Off-Campus skaters. They posted a 5-0-1 regular season record, and began the playoffs with a 7-4 victory over Sorin!Carroll in the semifinal round. In the other playoff matchup, Fisher edged Stanford 4-3, upping their overall record to 7-0. 
"We played well, and . probably should have won, but we just couldn't get the goals," said Horvath. 
The title game began with a hooking penalty on Off-
RACE .GENOCIDE THROUGH ABORTION 
a talk by 
Dr. Dolores B. Grier 
Notre Dame Law School Norman C. Barry Courtroom Thursday, March 5 
7:30 p.m. ALL ARE WELCOME 
. Dr. Grie~ is the founder and president of the Associa1ion of Olack Catholics Agamst AbortiOn,_ and a board member of the. African _American Society Againsl Abortion and of the New York Rtghl 10 Ltfe Commince. 

Spunsorcd t'ly Notre Dame Law School Raghlto Lafc .Jnt.l Notre Dame/ Saini Mary"s Right to Lafc 
Campus, giving the Fisher team a preview of the intimidating style they would face for the next three periods. Early on, it seemed to be the tight matchup the two unbeaten records suggested, but after Off­Campus' Tom McConnell scored the opening goal, his team began to take control. 
Fisher goalie Chris Kochurek did all he could, making a number of great saves, but OfT­Campus' unrelenting offense never gave him a chance to catch his breath, and came up with a flurry of goals to end the period up 4-0. 
The second period opened much the same as the first, but Off-Campus eventually scored again and made it S-0 before Fisher could finally scrap out a goal. In the final period, Fisher scored a quick opening goal and gave their fairly large contingent of fans something to cheer about. However, it did not last, as Off-Campus quickly responded with another goal to put the game away. 
Despite their great effort, Fisher just could not match up with the faster, better passing Off-Campus team. 
"We just didn't have the speed or the skills," said Held. 
With four team members on the ND club hockey team, Off­Campus was too much for everyone. The Crime concentrated on Fisher's two offensive weapons to stop the Green Wave. "We just paid attention to shutting down Rob Ganz and Dan Held," ·said Off­Campus captain Dan Miller. 

thing as the 'right' Knight to players, either. 
"SING-A-LONG" 
face," Davis said. "He's terrific Angry or not, Knight has in the sense of using the Indiana (21-4 overall, 12-2 Big 
Ramada Inn -South Bend ~ moment to get his team ready Ten) in first place in the 
TONIGHT•••• YOU ARE THE STARlr
to play, and yet he's also good conference while Iowa (16-8, 8­at seeing the big picture. 6) is tied for third with "The Big Ten championship is Michigan and Michigan State. 

Wednesday, March 4, 1992 The Observer page 19 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPIN JOHN MONKS 



In Saddam Hussein's war room 
Brad takes advantage of a revolutionary new technique in studying 
JAY HOSLER nlG HLIDDL€ BU 
"An Evenin~: with Lan~:ston and Martin" 
featuring 
DANNY GLOVER & FELIX JUSTICE 
(from "Lethal Weapon") (Actor/Director) 
Wednesday, March 4th 
7:30 Stepan Center Tickets Now Available at LaFortune Info. Desk 
Student Admission $2.00 General Admission $4.00 
(A theatrical performance by two great actors 


SPELUNKER 
THiS IS f?:ClB Bl..rf'Z.~ FFPM .SoOTH B£ND WI-I£RE A vr: 
$TUC£Ni C · S 1"0 HA c; FOUND A FORe UN­11\PP~D 6A5 SOURcE 
~ 

CROSSWORD 

CAMPUS 
Wednesday 
7:30 p.m. The Moscow Dramatic Ballet. O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Saint Mary's College. 
LECTURES 
Wednesday 
4:20 p.m. Colloquium, "Proton Radiation Therapy-Has It Finally Come of Age?" Paul DeLuca, Jr., University of Wisconsin, Madison. Room 118, Nieuwland Science Hall. Sponsored by the physics department. 
Thursday 
12:15 p.m. Lecture, "Transition to Democracy and the Judiciary in . Chile," Jorge Correa, director of the Chilean National Commission for Truth and Reconciliation. Conference Room 103, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by the Institute for International Peace Studies, .. Kroc Institute, and the Center for Civil and Human Rights. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Shrimp Poppers Grilled Turbot Cheese Tortellini w/ Marinara Sauce 
Saint Mary's 
Fried Perch Cheese Enchiladas Vegetable Stir Fry Deli Bar 

reciting works by Langston Hughes and Dr. Martin Luther King) ·STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Sports 
page 20 Wednesday, March 4, 1992 
JENNY 
MARTEN 
On Top of Sports 
Tarkanian's bad boy image will be missed by basketball fans 
lie will be missed. Assuming that last night was Jerry Tarkanian's last game as UNLV head coach, it is sad to see him go. 
Over his 24 years as a college basketball coach, Tark has amassed quite a group of enemies. He is considered one of the most corrupt coaches in the sport today, but yet he is a vital member of the college basketball scene as the winningest college coach in history (624-122). 
Whether you like him as a person is irrelevant. Tarkanian provided a much­needed breath of fresh air to college basketball. Every sport needs a bad boy and Tark fills the role in the college baskPtball coaching ranks. 
EvPr since he started coaehing at UNLV. eontroversy has surrounded him. In 1977, UNLV was placed on probation for two years and Tark·anian was suspended from coaching for two years. Tark fought his suspension all the way to thP Supreme Court. This year, UNLV is banrwd from all television and post­stmson appearances.

"'­
On June 7 of this past year, Tarkanian handed in his resignation from the head coaching position at UNLV effective at the end of the season. Last wHek, Tark rescinded the resignation siting impropieties by UNLV in the investigation of his program. Calling for a indHpendent investigation, Tark left his resignation up in the air. 
Hopefully, we'll see him on the floor leading the Runnin' Rebels again next year. It would be a shame for UN LV to let him go. Tark is not quite "Las Vegas' best salesman" as he recently claimed, but he is an added bonus to the college basketball scene. Tark provides a color to the sport that no one else could provide. His animated court-side antics far surpass those of Indiana head coach Bobby Knight. Can you imagine Knight in all his whininess as basketball's lone bad boy coach? 

.. 
The most impressive thing about Tarkanian is that he is a successful coach and has proven that he can win games. One may argue that his recruiting violations are responsible for the successful seasons, but it takes determination and commitment to turn raw street ball players into college stars. 
UNLV president Robert Maxson is trying to salvage the academic integrity of his school and he is making Tark his scapegoat. It is commendable that Maxson is so worried about his school's reputation in academic circles, but where was his concern last year when UNLV was undefeated and headed into the NCAA tournament as the top seed? 
Currently, UNLV is 25-2 for the season and would once again be highly rated in see TARK!page )7 
~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
INSIDE SPORTS 

Golf teams to spend Spring Break in Florida 
see page 18 
Calhoun rumored as Tarkanlan•s replacement 
see page 14
____.:._ 


Notre Dame fencers prepare for NCAAs 
By JONATHAN JENSEN should definitely challenge for 
Piper, who won the bronze Sports Writer the NCAA title that has last week, should qualify with evaded them since 1986. Lefevre. Trisko finished fifth 
The Notre Dame men's and They have posted two third­last week and another women's fencing teams will and one second-place finish impressive performance could travel to East Lansing, Mich. since then, and are hungry also get him in. this weekend to the Midwest for their fourth crown. "The foilists will have to re­Championships, the final "The NCAAs are what we ally perform well as a unit on piece of the NCAA have been working for all Sunday," said DeCicco. qualification puzzle. season," said Irish head coach "Wayne State will be coming 
The field will be whittled Mike DeCicco. at us with Stephan Schroder down to six fencers in epee To realize their goal, the and Michael Cho, who and women's foil, and five Irish will need an impressive finished 1-2 at Midwest, and
Heldt Piper
fencers from men's foil and performance from their Illinois is the only foil team
they should take three out of
sabre, with the Irish hoping to undefeated sabre team. that beat us during the
the five spots.

land a few fencers in each Irish All-American James regular season."
In foil, the steadily­
division. Taliaferro (25-6), who took The strong epee squad re­
improving Irish rest their
These fencer~ will go for the second last week behind Ohio markably has four potential
hopes on the team of junior
title at the NCAA State's Gellert Toth, will be qualifiers, but only three are
captain Jeff Piper (22-5),
Championships, to be held counted on to challenge for able to come from one team.
sophomore Rian Girard (15­
here on March 20-24. · the gold. Together with team Last week the Irish
3), and seniors Ed Lefevre
If last week's Midwest Open captain Chris Baguer (27 -4) garnered four of the top six
(25-7) and Mike Trisko (22-8). 
is any indication, the Irish and senior Ed Baguer (30-0), see FENCING/page 15 
Irish win duel with Musketeers, 87-86 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Phonz," Notre Dame coach Sports Writer John MacLeod explained. "It worked out just the way we 
"Great players make great wanted." shots in those situations," However, Ellis was unable to Xavier coach Pete Gillen said convert the three-point play of LaPhonso Ellis's seven-foot and gave the Musketeers (15­turnaround jumper. which 10) a chance to win on the last lifted the Notre Dame men's shot. basketball team (14-12) to a They took a timeout with 16 nail-biting 87-86 win last seconds remaining to set it up. night at the Joyce ACC. Almost everyone in the 
Ellis received a pass from arena expected Xavi,er guard Elmer Bennett, who had a ca­Jamie Gladden, who scored 24 reer-high 11 assists, before points on 10 of 16 shooting, to hitting the shot and drawing a be the man to put it up. foul with 21 seconds left. "Down the stretch, you have 
"We wanted to have Elmer to go to your best player," pop out and make the feed to see WIN/page 15 
Senior hoop stars shine Home finale thrills JACC crowd 
By ANTHONY KING the ball to LaPhonso Ellis, and Associate Sports Editor for the NBA-bound senior to somehow put it through the 
It was the last time for the hoop. four Notre Dame seniors to Xavier coach Pete Gillen ex­shine in the ACC. pected Ellis to get the ball. 
They did not want their last "We told them they were go­lingering memories to be ones ing to go to Ellis," explained of letting a young Xavier team Gillen. "We had a guy in front steal a victory, especially of him and a guy behind him, Irish senior Daimon Sweet puts a move on Xavier defender Tyricewhen an NCAA bid looms. but we didn't want to foul Walker to score two of his 28 points in last night's one-point win. 
The Irish seniors refused to him." 
through the net, the foul was "Earlier they were doublingquit, however, and held off the Billy Taylor inbounded the whistled for a three-point play down on me," explained Ellis, pesky Musketeers. ball to Elmer Bennett, and opportunity. " but I didn't they'd doubleWith 26 seconds left to play Bennett looked for Ellis. 
senior, an down Elmer
in the contest, coach John Bennett threaded a pass into "He's a All-late. had 
American player, I think," confidence in me and gave itMacLeod called timeout with the heavily guarded Ellis. 
said Gillen. "He made a little to me. I was lucky enough toNotre Dame down 86-85. He The 6-9 forward went right six-footer in traffic and made knock it down." 
gathered the team around the up with the ball, with a a heck of a play. It's tough to Ellis' shot gave the Irish anbench and drew up a play. turnaround jumper in heavy 
stop a six-nine player like SENIORS/ 15
The play was designed to get traffic. As the ball swished that." see page 
Piane hopes for strong ICAAAA showing 
By JENNIFER MARTEN ICAAAAs will be a very talented cast of Nonetheless, freshman' Lee Becton Sports Writer Irish runners. Sophomore Willie Clark qualified for the triple jump and and freshman Mike Miller qualified for freshman Brian Headrick and sophomore 
The indoor track season will come to the 55 meters while sophomore Dean Todd Herman qualified for the high its conclusion over the spring break as Lytle will run the 200 meters. Senior Phil jump. Notre Dame will also field a mile members of the men's track team travel Casper qualified in the 400 and relay team and a distance medley team. to the ICAAAA meet in Princeton, NJ this sophomore Miguel Conway qualified in There will be a strong field at the 
weekend and some to the NCAA Indoor the 500. ICAAAA meet which could feature Championships in Indianapolis the For the distance events, seniors Brian runners from up to 80 teams. The Irish following weekend. Peppard and Shawn Schneider will are fortunate to have as many runners 
After an extremely successful indoor represent Notre Dame in the 1,000-going as they do. track season, the majority of the men's meter and mile events respectively. In "We have a nice balanced team," said team and the entire women's team the 3,000, junior John Coyle and Notre Dame coach Joe Piane. "It would finished its season last weekend at the freshmen Nate Ruder and J.R. Meloro be nice to have an extra weight man or Alex Wilson Invitational at Loftus Sports will all run for the Irish. Senior Pat two, but I am expecting a great meet." Center. There is not a version of the Kearns and sophomore Mike McWilliams With the number of teams that could ICAAAA meet on the women's side and qualified to compete in the 5,000-meter be at the meet, any team that hopes to the women's team did not qualify any race. place in the top 15 should have a deep runners for the NCAA championships. Not as many Irish runners qualified for squad with at least 20 people. Notre 
Representing Notre Dame at the the field events as was hoped. 
see TRACK/page 15 










