The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 24 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Open forum begins with party debate 
By AMY SANTANGELO 
News Writer 
A possible loan program for college students was among the topics discussed by the College Democrats during their debate with the College Republicans 
• Debate cancelled I page 8 

last night. 
The initiation of the Morrissey • Perot still around I page 8 Manor Open Forum featured the two groups discussing Satti mentioned several plans current issues and stances of that Bill Clinton hopes to en­
each party's presidential force if elected, one of which is candidate. a National Trust Program that 
Speaking on behalf of the will allow anyone who wishes to Democrats was Chris Satti, Vice receive a college education an President of the College opportunity through loans. Democrats, while Jeff O'Donnell These loans will be paid back represented the Republicans. over a period of years in one of Morrissey assistant rector Dan two ways: either by having a McDevitt moderated the event. small percent of a person's 
Both sides spoke on the "hot paycheck withheld to repay the topics" in the election, namely loan, or by devoting two years 
education, the environment, of service to the public. social concerns, foreign policy President Bush has a similar and economics. 
see DEBATE I page 4 

Many voters focus on candidates' financial aid policies 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH country.get moving again," professor of political science at The re-authorization of the ciarone. News Writer Zinbler said. Saint Mary's. Higher Education Act that Both Russo and Nucciarone Clinton proposes to fund the "With the population at the Congress recently passed mir­stressed the importance of real­
With the growing cost of plan by cutting defense and two institutions, I'm not sure of rors many of the proposals izing that any planned increase higher education in the United other spending, especially the impact either plan will Bush has suggested, including in financial aid is not subject to States, many voters are focus­White House spending, and have," said Pierce, "but the an in crease in student loans whether it is passed through ing on how the presidential imposing a surtax on those with Clinton plan may produce a and a new formula that will al­Congress, but whether or not it candidates plan to help students an income of more than more diverse student body." low more middle-income fami­is appropriated for each year in finance their education. $200,000 a year, he said. However, the plan does carry lies to borrow. the budget. 
President George Bush and Bush's proposal would include an obligation. Russo said that at Notre Dame "Authorizing things is not the Democratic presidential candi­an increase in access to Pell "It is an obligation that stu­the act will lead to increased same thing as putting the bucks date Gov. Bill Clinton both pro­Grants for middle-income dents might not want to incur, borrowing by both families and out there," said Russo. posed policies to increase stu­families by placing a cap on the but it is an obligation students students, but whether the Pierce said whether his plan dent aid, but each plan varies in amount a family's home value may incur if it enables them to money for more loans will be is enacted immediately depends the way it will be financed, and can count in calculating finan­receive a better education like appropriated by Congress is still on how he prioritizes the how it will affect students at cial eligibility, and an increase that offered at Notre Dame and in question. policies he has proposed. institutions like Notre Dame of $2.1 billion in funds for guar­Saint Mary's," he said. "Each year it is more and "If he pushes for the passage and Saint Mary's. anteed student loans. "It is to premature to conjec­more difficult to meet the full of his higher education plans 
Clinton's plan, the National The president proposes a ture anything, because we don't needs of our students," said his chances are very, very good Trust Fund, would allow any "reordering of spending and the know enough about de­Russo. "Now we don't know the that it will happen," Pierce said. American to borrow money to elimination of 246 wasteful tails,"said Joe Russo, director of full extent of how difficult peo­fund their education, according domestic programs," according financial aid at Notre Dame, ple's needs will be to meet, or Andrew Holmgren, president to Ethan Zinbler of the Clinton to Cathy Fauster, assistant press During the 1980s, the de­how many more families will be of College Democrats, said he campaign. secretary for the Bush crease in federal funding for eligible." believes that Clinton's plan is 
The loans must be paid back campaign. "The money from higher education has decreased Mary Nucciarone, director of the better. either as a percentage of in­spending cuts will outweigh the shifting the burdens elsewhere, financial aid at Saint Mary's, come after the student goes to increase in spending," she said. said Russo. said the financial aid issue "With Clinton's plan we can work or through two years of While both programs will "It is more difficult for many needs to be taken out of presi­start sending more people to community service. provide more aid to students, families to shoulder the burden, dential politics. collage who deserve to go," said 
"This will allow people to Clinton's plan seems more " he said. "The programs have "More and more students are Holmgren. "It's a really good serve their community in comprehensive, said Patrick been stable, but the growth is receiving need-based aid, and program that can really benefit beneficial ways to help the Pierce, chair and associate not equal to the rising costs." the costs are rising," said Nuc-the students of Notre Dame." 


Students rplan':mhurric~.lle 
.::Jr:;{,.;.;. 

By ALLISON MCCARTHY Arsenault said. News Writer A,r~~~auJt and.Mackl~ ,will acc(l~p~.J:!Y a group of app.r9)ti­matelythirty students on the In response to South Florida's trip. They will be working with 

d~~I~!crf~n~JPH~~~~:'ai::.lll ,!!~ t::;~~ri~~~~j~~z~!o~:;~lr
drew, the Center lor Soci~J}' many.groups traveling to Concerns and two Notre Dame Florida to represent universi­studen ts are organizing a ties from around the nation. "Hurricane Andrew Rel Dn~ng~ljeir vveek long ~tay; Trip" to take phice over the the students will be assigned coming October Break. various tasks. "The main· part 
Keenan Hall sophomor~ will be e:xtensive clean-up, light Mike Arsenault and senior eons~~b(!tion and repaJror John Mackie, both residents ()f homes~ sorting and distribution Miami, are in charge of the ef~ of food, clothes. and other do­fori. nations. and day care for the 
According to Arsenault. the childre~ of the migrant work­group was formed at the sug~ .... ers w}to were q:m~pletely wiped gestion of a friend who is also' ··out." Arsenault said. from the Miami area. The ·· will be housed at 
"There's such a need for nna Youth Cen····ter, there that he asked if ovides bedsihand was . anything that t no cost. Fun.d~ng students} could do and has nofyet gested we form a ~""'"t'''..."''" to represent Noir~ D 
Five Guard members to march 
By BECKY BARNES 
Assistant News Editor 
The five first-year members of the Irish Guard not dismissed by Student Affairs will march in Saturday's game, said Professor Luther Snavely, band director. 
Vice President for Student Af­fairs Patricia O'Hara disbanded the group Tuesday for alcohol­related offenses. However, she did allow provisions for a pro­bationary group consisting of the five members of the Guard who were not part of the group last year. 
Snavely said the remaining Guards will march in the two upcoming home games, and it will be determined later if try­outs for additional members will be held. 
"Right now, we're just trying to figure out how to make it work with five," he said. 
The remaining five, Vinnie Romeo, Bill Kempf, Greg Scherle, Dan Thuente, and Brad Metz, expr~ssed shock and 
disappointment at the decision. 
"It's still hard to believe it 
happened," said Metz. 
"It's a little disappointing be­cause I enjoy the company of those guys," said Kempf. 
Some members of the Guard have complained that many of the allegations against the group were unfounded. Metz agreed that "a lot of it's based on rumor," but he also added, "a lot on truth." 
Snavely refused to comment on the disbanding of the group. "It would be very inappropriate for me to make a comment on what was decided in Student Affairs," he said. 
---------------------" 
Thursday, September 24, 1992

page 2 The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Life is the strongest right to defend 
While driving to East Lansing last Saturday, the conversation in the car covered a broad scope of issues affecting college students. We starte'd with Friday night's happenings. 


Then Julie conveyed her  Richard Riley  
love of music  to  us  in  Business Manager  
great  detail,  which  

captivated the occupants of the "'Wagonmeister". Julie had a copy of the latest issue of Rolling Stone magazine with her. The feature article was an interview with Bill Clinton. As most political conversations go, the topic of abortion quickly came up. We discussed its evolution in America, from a lady in Colleen's grandmother's time who performed illegal abortions at her house to Kirsten's commenting on friends of hers in high school who had three or more abortions performed. The comment that stuck in my mind was that "abortion has become a form of birth control for some people". 
I am a firm believer in life. I do not believe in capital punishment . I believe that every human is entitled to the same rights and opportunities that any other person could have. I believe most strongly that every person has the right to experience life for himself and not have the decision made by another that it would simply be too difficult or inconvenient for this child to survive at this time, so we won't give the kid a chance. To be denied basic human rights is one of the greatest crimes committed in our world. To deny a person the right to vote because of skin color is ignorance and bigotry of the highest level. To imprison a person because o political beliefs is simply criminal. To execute millions of citizens of a nation, simply because of their religious beliefs, is maniacal. To deny the chance to have your skin exposed to the sun, to form political beliefs and religious tenets is the culmination of crime in my mind. 
Chris Zorich grew up in the worst section o Chicago. He is the child of a father he knew little about and a mother who raised him single­handedly. He was beaten by other children for being different, but overcame adversity to become a very successful man. Had his mother felt it would be too difficult for her to raise him or didn't want him to grow up in such a violent environment, he wouldn't have had the chance to try. While there are far more failures than successes in some lives, it is criminal to not allow someone to have e the chance to try for success. 
It is up to the politicians of the United States to attempt to make it easier to survive and the chances to succeed more available to the disadvantaged. I sincerely hope the winners o this year's political elections do all that they can to make this country a better place to try to be successful. I hope that laws and lawmakers make religious toleration and political opinions more easily expressed and open-mindedly received. But it is a fundamental human right,to live freely and have the choice to decide 
and form opinions, a right that is so primary that it should never be considered otherwise, whether that person is a Jew in Germany, a 
black person in South Africa, the son of an imwed mother in the south side of Chicago, or someone who hasn't had a chance to form opinions because she hasn't been born yet. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
News Frank Rivera Bevin Kovalik  Today's Staff Production Kathy Fong Cheryl Moser  Accent Gerrie Hamilton Amy Hardgrove  
Sports Jason Kelly Jim Vogl  Systems Matt Carbone  Graphics Chris Weirup  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Cuban prostitutes driven by need 

•HAVANA-Fidel Castro says they do it because they like it. But Cuba's prostitutes say they are driven by need, not pleasure or greed. "I've got my mother and child to take care of," said Sandra. a slim 29-year-old prostitute lingering near an entrance to the capital's seafront Hotel Riviera. "It's not a matter of liking it." Government officials say the prostitutes do not rep­resent the hard-working, stoic and dedicated majority. But the problem has embarrassed the state, which claims to have eliminated the corruption and vice that marked the rule of dictator Fulgencio Batista before Castro's revolution toppled him in 1959. 
Hotel offers the bare essentials 

•TOKYO -For the guest who has too much of ev­erything, a luxury hotel in Kyoto is offering special rooms without telephones, televisions, radios or even clocks. The Miyako Hotel has removed the appliances from four rooms so that guests can enjoy quiet during their visit to the ancient capital and escape the rush of their normal lives. Even newspapers won't be delivered to the rooms. "We noticed that more than half our guests don't look at the newspapers we put under their doors," hotel official Tamio Watanabe said on Wednesday. The rooms, priced at $290 and $355 a night, do have furniture, refrigerators and buttons to press for room service 
NATIONAL 
"Murphy Brown" scores high ratings 

•NEW YORK -Vice President Dan Quayle and 44 million other viewers tuned in to watch the hour-long 
OF INTEREST 

• International Interns of the Notre Dame Council on International Business Development will discuss their experiences abroad this summer in a fireside chat tonight at 6 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge, next to the auditorium. All NDCIBD members are encouraged to attend. 
MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING September 23 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 
97,907,100 ·0.28 to 229.20 S&P COMPOSITE 

-0.79 to 422.14 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
-4.59 to 3276.26
UNCHANGED 587 

GOLD 
-$0.30 to $348.80 oz 
SILVER 
-$0.029 to $3.799 oz 
FORECAST 
Sunny and warmer today with highs in the upper 70s. Clear and cool tonight in the low 50s. Partly cloudy and mild Friday with highs in the mid 70s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  38  24  
Atlanta  87  69  
Bogota  68  50  
Boston  84  59  
Cairo  86  58  
Chicago  62  40  
Cleveland  70  59  
Dallas  80  58  
Detroit  68  38  
Indianapolis  68  43  
Jerusalem  77  57  
London  64  54  
Los Angeles  96  75  
Madrid  81  57  
Minneapolis  77  65  
Moscow  61  45  
Nashville  76  51  
New York  81  54  
Paris  66  54  
Philadelphia  87  54  
Rome  86  61  
Seattle  72  55  
South Bend  75  52  
Tokyo  79  63  
Washington, D.C.  88  57  


season premiere of "Murphy Brown." Monday night's episode logged a 29.3 rating, the A.C. Nielsen Co. said. The CBS comedy, competing with NFL football on ABC. received a 41 percent share of viewers watching TV at that hour. The "Who Shot J.R. ?" episode of "Dallas" drew an 80 share in 1980, and the "M-A-S-H" finale three years later did even better. Last spring, Quayle accused the show of glamorizing unwed motherhood by having its title character give birth out of wedlock. On Monday's episode, Murphy (Candice Bergen) responded in an editorial on her fictional news show. "Perhaps it's time for the vice president to expand his definition and recognize that whether by choice or circumstance, families come in all shapes and sizes," she said. "And ultimately, what really defines a family is commitment, caring and love." 
INDIANA 

School bus riders on candid camera 
•EVANSVILLE, Ind. -Some Warrick County school buses are rolling with cameras on board to quell mischievous behavior among student riders. The 8­millimeter cameras with two-hour tapes have audio as well as visual reproduction to show who was responsi­ble for any disruptive behavior. The cameras are being used on three of the school corporation's 97 buses. "I really like having one on the bus," said Doris Rohrscheib, a bus driver for three years. "It's been a great deterrent to the kids. They know that anything they do, their parents and the principal are likely to see." Discipline problems have been few on the three buses since cameras were installed about two weeks ago, according to Bill Abel, the transportation director. 
•First Aid Services Team will meet tonight at 7 
p.m. 
in 116 O'Shaughnessy. Important information will be discussed and uniform shirts will be available. 

•No Programming Contest Meeting tonight at 7 

p.m. 
in 356 Fitzpatrick. There will be a meeting to dis­cuss an ACM Programming Contest on October 10. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1869: Thousands of businessmen were ruined in a Wall Street panic after financiers Jay Gould and James Fisk attempted to corner the gold market. 

• 
In 1955: President Eisenhower suffered a heart attack while on vacation in Denver. 

• 
In 1957: The Brooklyn Dodgers played their last game at Ebbets Field, beating the Pittsburgh Pirates 2-0. 

• 
In 1960: The USS Enterprise, the first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, was launched at Newport News, Va. 

• 
In 1990: The Supreme Soviet voted to give preliminary 


approval to a plan for switching the Soviet Union to a free­market economy. 

and a future. 
Washington suggested to take the initiative and read about other cultures and lifestyles. She said to talk to and learn from people of other races and cultures. 
"We need to find things that will bring us together," Wash­ington said. 
"Expand your orbits, reach out more," she said. "Do your little bit to make this world a better place." 
The lecture, "Making Contact with the Unfamiliar Other" was the second lecture in the "Racism: Woman's Voices" series sponsored by the Center for Spirituality. 

The Observer/ Cynthia Exconde Notre Dame seniors, Kathleen and John Mackie and Keenan Hall sophomore Mike Arsenault discuss the Hurricane Andrew Relief Trip which they have organized in conjunction with the Center for Social 
Thursday, September 24, 1992 The Observer page 3 
Washington: Stereotypes, oppression still in existence 
By JILL HOTEK News Writer 
Stereotypes and oppressions still exist in our society, and men and woman of all colors need to talk about these stereotypes and differences in an open forum, according to Patricia Washington, a profes­sor at Indiana University-South Bend. 
"Consider the ways in which we are similar, not different," said Washington. 
"We don't know what a per­son is like by looking at them," she said, urging people to try and see a person as having qualities, beliefs, culture, a past 
Go Irish ... 
Concerns. Thirty students will travel to Florida over October Break to help the hurricane victims. 
Beat Boilermakers 

The Observer 
Accent department is holding a mandatory meeting for all new and old reporters. 
Monday, Sept. 28 8:15p.m. Foster Room, LaFortune 
All those interested in writing for Accent, please attend. For more information, call239-5303. 
Convocation marks sesquicentennial 
Special to The Observer associate professor of history, given by Thomas Stritch, pro­will be the presiding celebrant. fessor emeritus of American Friday's Sesquicentennial studies. 
Notre Dame's College of Arts 

Convocation will begin at 2:30 
and Letters will celebrate the 

p.m. with an academic proces­During the convocation,
University's Sesquicentennial 

sion from O'Shaughnessy Hall Thomas Swartz, professor of 
with a Mass and academic con­

to Room 101 of the DeBartolo economics, will receive the 
vocation today and Friday. 

Classroom Building. 1992 Father Charles Sheedy
The Sesquicentennial Mass 

A welcome and invocation award for excellence in teach­
will be celebrated in the Basil­

will be given by Dean Harold ing and will give an address on 
ica of the Sacred Heart today at 

Attridge, and an address on the "The Rewards of Teaching in a 
5 p.m. Father Thomas Blantz, 

history of the college will be Research University." 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 239-5303 and let us know! 

ANY DAY 
SPECIAL 
(7-!Op.m.) 

mall Medium Pepperoni ese izza zzas 
$399 $799 
LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REQl'IRED. Valid at panlcipaling sJOres only. NoJ valid wilh any other offer. CusJomer pays sales JaX where i!JlPIIcable. Delivery areas limiled 10 ensure safe drivmg. OUr drivers carry less Jhan $20. Our drivers are not penalized for laJe deliveries. 0 1992 Dornino"S PizZa. Inc. 

a Winning Combo 
NO 
271-0300 
SMC 
289-0033 
Watch for Domino's at your tailgater on Saturday­Proceeds go to Logan Center 
1 1 a.m.-2 a.m Sun-Thurs. 1 1 a.m.-3:30 a.m. Fri-Sat. 
Remember, Domino's Delivers in 30 Minutes GUARANTEED 
-

page 4 The Observer Thursday, September 24, 1992 
Biosphere crew marks anniversary 

The Observer/ Andriana Rodriguez
The Lou Rag 
Joe Huston, senior class president, and Dan Connolly, junior class president, organize the "Lou Rags" for the junior class fundraiser. 

To learn more about the Planned Giving Program, call us today. It's the first step in making a memory that lasts beyond a lifetime. 
ftAmerican Heart 
~Association 
American Heart Association 
ORACLE, Ariz. (AP) ­llalfway through their two-year mission-under-glass, eight men and women sealed in Biosphere 2 and those watching over them are trying to provo the 
experiment is  more  than  a  
stunt.  
Their goal is  to  operate  a  

space colony prototype, grow­ing their own food and tending wildlife in a th reo-acre, glass­and-steel complex designed to recycle air, water and waste. 
Critics have said the project is unscientific because, among other things, outside air has been pumped in and a crew member who was released for medical treatment returned with supplies. 
Organizers, however, hope a review by an outside panel of scientists -and some changes 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
idea for such a policy that in­
volves school vouchers. His 
policy is more directed at im­
proving schools that are ca­
pable of positive instruction of 
the youth. 
Both sides have a similar 
opinion on the role of the econ­
omy in improving the American 
position. Satti explained 
Clinton's position of not only 
looking "forward" but also 
looking inward. 
The Bush position was de­fended by O'Donnell who felt that the way to improve the current state of the American economy is to make America competitive in the world mar­ket. 

7Day Delivery 
Roses Flowers Balloons Plants Gift & Fruit Baskets 
Clockrower Square  ( 219) 2 7 7  1291O'<-~e'<­~  
51400 31 North  ~'(.  
~~~~~ 

South Bend, IN 46637 
Mention This Ad and Receive I0% off ~ Not good for Valentine's Day 
"Medjugorje is a sign to all ofyou and a call to pray and live the days ofgrace that God is giving you .. ... Thank Godfor the gift ofmy being with you because I am telling you: this is a great grace!" 
Medjugorje 
August 25, 1992 Message from 
Our Lady,Queen ofPeace 
"Dear Children! Today I wish to tell you that I love you. I love you with my motherly love, and I call upon you to open yourselves completely to me so that through each of you I may be enabled to convert and save the world, where there is much sin and many things thatare evil. Therefore, my dear children, open yourselves com­pletely to me so that I may be able to lead you more and more to the marvelous love of God the Creator, who reveals Himself to you day by day. I am atyourside and I wish to reveal to you and show you the God who loves you. Thank you for having responded to my call!" 

Tomorrow Night! 
Qu~~ll6'~rPea~~s·Mass 
St. Adalbert's Catholic Church 
(Corner of Olive and Huron Streets in South Bend) 
(Student rides will leave the Library Circle at 5:45p.m.) 
Come and receive Our Lady's September 25th message! 

recommended by the experts­will give tho project credibility. 
Biosphere 2, on a ranch 35 miles north of Tucson, is a pri­vate, for-profit venture financed by Texas billionaire Ed Bass, who invested at least $150 million. 
The experiment began with a great deal of hoopla as the four men and four women began life beyond the airlock. 
But after a series of setbacks and public relations gaffes, Bass appointed an eight-mem­ber committee that includes scientists from NASA and tho Smithsonian Institution to ex­amine the project's scientific erodibility. 
The panel's initial report, re­leased July 21, said Biosphere 2 had put commercial concerns -such as technology devel-
Concerning foreign policy, the Clinton side feels that cuts in defense are not only needed, but also appropriate because there is "no longer the throat of the 'evil union' of the 1980s." Those affected by the cuts would be trained in other areas so they will not be without jobs. 
President Bush feels that the only good foreign policy is ex­perienced foreign policy. 

opmont and tourism -and public education ahead of science. 
It recommended appointing a director of basic science, setting up a well-crafted science plan, pursuing scientific publication, taking steps to ensure accuracy and establishing a starr of scientists. 
Bass said the recommenda­tions will be carried out. Despite its criticism, the panel was encouraging. 
"The Biosphere project is one that has a lot of potential," said Stephen O'Brien of the National Cancer Institute. "But whether it does get realized does depend on how willing the organizers are to implement the recom­mendations, or at least tho spirit." 

O'Donnell cited current exam­ples of the Gulf War, the Berlin Wall toppling, the collapse of Communism and the spread of freedom and democracy as successes in foreign policy. All these events have enhanced Bush's experience in foreign policy, according to O'Donnell. 
nne­

we hope that vou had a terrific Birthdav! 
Love, from Kristi, Tricia, Marv Beth and Katie 

The NEW Six Foot Combo Special From SUBWAY Is A Deliciously Affordable Change Of Taste For Your Next Group Function! 
SUBWAY's New Six Foot Combo Special is a delicious combination of ham, bologna and salami*, plus generous portions f cheese, lettuce and tomato, all on our own freshly baked bread. This ak:es it a welcome change from the usual Pizza, Chicken and Burgers. 
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE: 
We're ;o sure that you and your group will love the j'ix Foot Combo Special,that we will refund yo .u money ifyou are not completely satisfied. 
Great for Tailgate and After-Game Parties! 
For more information, call the SUBWAY location nearest you: 
SR 23 & lronwoodt2n-7744 
US 31 N. (North Village Mall)/277-1024 
115 W. Washington (Downtown)/289-1288 

•All Turkey Based 
.-------~------------~----~--------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, September 24, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Storm kills 32 in southern France 

VAl SON-LA-ROMAINE, France (AP-France's deadliest storm in 34 years killed at least 32 people, including 21 in an ancient town devastated by a flash flood, officials said Wednesday. Hundreds of rescue workers searched for nearly 50 missing people. 
Torrential rains and violent 
· winds swept through southern France on Tuesday, ruining crops and damaging roads and buildings in the scenic Vaucluse region, a popular destination for French and foreign vaca­tioners. "It's an indescribable tragedy," said Claude Haut, mayor of Vaison-la-Romaine, the hardest hit town. Weather forecasters said the same storm system struck England on Wednesday, swelling rivers in the south and central regions. No deaths were reported but highways and rail lines were flooded, and thousands of commuters were stranded. Italian authorities reported two people were missing when flash floods swept the Savona area on the coast north near the French border. French officials put the num­

her of deaths in northern Vau­cluse at 27, including five Bel­gians. Twenty-one of the victims were killed in Vaison-la­Romaine, a town of 5,000 dat­ing to Roman times, 25 miles north of Avignon. 
Four were killed in the town of Aubignon and two in Gigondas. 
Of the nearly 50 people re­ported missing, five were Bel­gian, two German and one Dutch, officials in Avignon said. 
Elsewhere, a postman drowned in the Drome region and four people were killed in Ardeche, between Lyon and Avignon, including a young man who tried to save his father from the swollen Ardeche River, authorities said. 
It was the highest death toll from a storm in France since October 1958, when 36 people were killed by flooding in the neighboring Gard region. 
In Vaison-la-Romaine, wit­nesses recounted seeing camp­ing vans being carried down the Ouveze River with people inside screaming for help. A wall of water swept through the town about 4 p.m. Tuesday, causing damage as much as 50 feet above the normal level of the river. 
The town hall was converted Wednesday into an emergency center, where residents sought information on the injured and the missing and obtained food and clothing. 
Violent winds toppled at least a dozen buildings in Vaison-la­R.omaine, officials said, and thousands of people were evac­uated after electricity and water were cut off. 
"Some areas looked like they'd been bombarded -ev­erything was destroyed," said Interior Minister Paul Quiles, who inspected the damage and visited a temporary morgue set up in a gymnasium. 
"It was horrible-the little coffins of 5-and 6-year-old children," he said. 
About 1,500 rescue workers, including soldiers, used heli­copters and amphibious craft to search for the missing in northern Vaucluse, which was drenched by flash floods. Some bodies found Wednesday were entangled in branches on the banks of the Ouveze, police said. 
Denmark to vote on European union; 
AIR FORCE ROTC UNITS 

Proposed currency system in danger
FILLED TO CAPACITY 
COPENHAGEN, Denmark (AP)-European Community 
leaders struggling to revive the union treaty now face yet an­other obstacle: the only country 
NOT! 
Don't believe everything you hear. The Air Force 
to reject the pact will vote

continues to seck outstanding students to fill future officer 
again, but on terms that may

requirements. See yourself becoming a leader, graduating 
undermine Hs key element. 
from college as an Air Force officer with fully developed 
Like the treaty's narrow ref­

qualities ofcharacter and managerial ability. Notice, too, 
erendum victory in France on
the opportunities. Like eligibility for scholarship 
Sunday, Denmark's qualified

programs that can pay tuition, textbooks, fees... even $100 in tax-free income each academic month. 
announcement that it would Visualize a crisp uniform that reflects pride in yourself and 
have voters reconsider the ac­your ability to accept challenge. Get the picture? 
cord could hardly hearten 
backers of European political Captain Andrysiak 239-6634 
Now make the call! 
and monetary union. Approval by Denmark ­

•AIM HIGH-AIR FORCE• 
where voters rejected the ac­cord in June -is necessary to rescue plans to forge by 1999 a 


277·7273 

Kick Off Your Tailgate Party 
With Delectable Deli Fare From 


Bring in this ad and receive 20o/o off your catering purchase. 
• 3 FT. SUBS • DESSERTS 
• MEAT & CHEESE TRAVS 
ENJOY MACRI'S UNSURPASSED QUALITY FOR THIS WEEKS GAME NOTRE DAME VS. PURDUE 
(24 Hour Notice Needed For Catering Orders} 
STOP IN OUR DELl AFTER THE GAME OR COME WATCH THE GAME WITH US GRAPE RD. -UNIVERSITY CENTER 

European superpower with a single currency and common defense and foreign policies. 
But the Danish prime minis­ter, Poul Schlueter, said Tues­day that his country would seek some changes in the treaty and opposes one of its centerpieces: a common currency for the 12 community members. 
"I can say that we don't want to be tied to the European Monetary Union's third phase," Schlueter told a news conference. He refused to elab­orate, but the "third phase" fo­cuses on a single European currency. 
The recent chaos in the Eu­ropean currency markets has increased resistance to the sin­gle currency plan, especially among Germans who fear los­ing their strong mark. Most EC currencies have lost value be­cause of high German interest rates, which make the mark more attractive. 
The dramatic fluctuations threaten to tear apart a 13­year-old system to stabilize ex­change rates of EC currencies. Already, Italy and Britain have pulled out of the system. 
The central banks of Ger­many and France tried to prop up the franc by purchasing vast quantities of the French cur­rency on Tuesday. Today, they issued a joint statement pledg­ing to defend the franc. 
"So many speculators made so much money betting against the pound and the lira­they've got money to play with against the franc," said Simon Knapp, an economist at Bar­clays de Zoete Wedd Ltd., the large London brokerage. 
Knapp said the exchange-rate mechanism "seems to be in the gravest danger of splitting apart." 
In Florence, Italy, tens of thousands of workers on Tues­day protested government-im­posed austerity measures to reduce the country's ballooning deficit. 
~N Esp~ ~'~'--..,~i Spanish Mass ~ 
Todos Estan lnvitados All Are Welcome 
domingo, septiembre 27 
10:30 a.m. 
Breen-Phillips Chapel 
Celebrante Padre Bruce Cecil, C.S.C. Parroquia de San Esteban 

-

page 6 The Observer Thursday, September 24, 1992 
Security Council diplomats plan war crimes resolution 
UNITED NATIONS (AP)-Se-been characterized by cam­curity Council diplomats were paigns of terror against minor­laying plans Wednesday for a ity ethnic groups, followed by new war crimes resolution to attacks, massacres, and punish "ethnic cleansing" and shelling of besieged cities, such attacks on civilians by warring as Dubrovnik in Croatia and parties in former Yugoslav re-Sarajevo in Bosnia-Herzegov­publics. ina. 
The pole that bore Yu-The war flared this year in goslavia's flag for decades was Bosnia after fighting died down bare Wednesday morning after in Croatia. Slovenia and Mace­the U.N. General Assembly donia seceded from Yugoslavia voted 127-6 the night before to quietly, and only Serbia and expel it from the assembly for Montenegro still belong. arming and encouraging rebel More than a million people Serbs in Bosnia-Herzegovina. have been driven from their 
But the flag was raised homes as a result of the conflict around noon-"iJrovisionally" and "ethnic cleansing" cam­-General Assembly spokesman paigns, in which one ethnic Alexander Taukatch said. group is driven from an area to 
Yugoslav Premier Milan Panic make room for another. It is the has requested U.N. membership worst refugee crisis in Europe as a new state, but the 15-since World War II. nation Security Council was not Reports by the United Nations expected to review Yugoslavia's have blamed all groups­status until December. Serbs, Croats and Muslims-for 
The flag-raising confusion such outlawed tactics. reflected Yugoslavia's unclear But many-including the U.S. status in the 179-member government, U.N. Secretary­world body, which had not sus-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali pended a member in its 47-year and the U.N. Human Rights history. The Yugoslav desk was Commission's special envoy on empty Wednesday, but the Yugoslavia, former Polish Prime "Yugoslavia" nameplate Minister Tadeusz Ma-remained. zowiecki-single out the Serbs 
The wars that broke out as as the chief aggressors. Yugoslavia disintegrated have Mazowiecki has urged the creation of an international commission to investigate war crimes. 
Croatia and Bosnia have called for international war crimes tribunals. and Germany has demanded that Serb leaders be tried under a 1948 
U.N. resolution that pledges sig­natories to prosecute those accused of genocide. 
U.S. and European diplomats said the new war crimes reso­lution would be based on the 1949 Geneva Convention on the treatment of civilians in times of war, which outlaws mass deportations and attacks on civilians, hospitals and mercy missions. · 
On Tuesday, the United States turned over to the United Na­tions detailed evidence that warring ethnic groups were torturing prisoners, attacking civilians and committing other human rights abuses. 
The new resolution would set in motion a process that could eventually lead to a process similar to the 1945-49 Nurem­burg trials of Nazi war crimi­nals, one diplomat said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 

SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina {AP) -Serb artillery pounded the northern town of Bihac. killing 11 people in a hospi1.al, radio reports said to­day, a day after the U.N. pun­ished Yugoslavia for fomenting Bosnia's war. 
Sarajevo was generally quiet today, although it was not clear if power had been restored. Much of the war­weary capital of 400,000 was without power Tuesday after shelling destroyed a electric transformer. 
In Bihac, 140 miles northeast of Sarajevo, the hospital was hit by Serb artillery late Tuesday, killing 11 patients and seriously wounding more than 20. Croatian radio reported. The report could not be immediately confirmed. 
Serb forces in Bosnia offered this week to open 10 land cor­ridors from Sarajevo to free passage for civilians to escape six months of siege. Gen. Philippe Morillon, the French 
Serbian artillery kills 11 in hospital, report says 
deputy commander of the U.N. peacekeeping forces, said Tuesday he hoped similar cor­ridors would relieve all other besieged Bosnian cities but warned a mass exodus might follow. 
Sarajevo's residents fear an exodus could cut into their de­fense capabilities, or that the evacuation of women and chil­dren could effectively clear the decks for an all-out fight for Bosnia's cities. 
Fighting in Bosnia, which has killed over 10,000 people, broke out after Muslims and Croats voted Feb. 29 to secede from Yugoslavia, prompting a rebellion by Serbs opposed to independence. 
But analysts say the Serbs are becoming increasingly outnumbered, and fuel shortages in their ally Yugoslavia have forced them to use air strikes as they fight to preserve a strong negotiating position at peace talks in Geneva. 
Muslims accuse the Croats of secretly conspiring with Serbs to carve up Bosnia between them. Last month, Croat forces close to Sarajevo turned back at least two arms shipments to Sarajevo's besieged defenders, 

~~~~A~~~s ~~r~~ti"~ru=~~e~e .~~~~al .~:!:?,~:. ~~;~ ~B~R~U~N~~O~'S~~p~~IZ~Z~A~~ 
presidents of Croatia and Croatian President Franjo Council to lift the blanket arms Bosnia-Herzegovina on Tudjman, meanwbile, an-embargo on Yugoslavia so they -;­Wednesday announced a mu-nounced that he does not intend can match the weaponry of the · · Made from scratch tual defense pact to battle Ser-to ask U.N. peacekeepers in his Serb militias. r bian aggression. country to stay beyond March <~ . '' 1n ~ Q Italian Pizza 
The agreement was an-1993, when their mandate Bosnian President Alija -u f;l nounced, ironically, just min-expires. Izetbegovic conceded that he 

and Pasta utes before a Security Council He said the Serbs in Croatia had found no sympathy so far in subcommittee enforcing the will be peacefully integrated the Security Council for the arms embargo against the into political life by then, so request. 
Call for Reservations 
former Yugoslav republics met "there will be no need to extend 
288-3320
to hear evidence on a plane-the mandate of the U.N." The new agreement is an ex­load of weapons bound for pansion of a July 9 pact be­
irr ~ 
~ 
Bosnia that Croatia impounded. In fact, tensions have been tween Croatia and Bosnia, 

•Banquet Rooms Available•
Despite an earlier defense high in some of the Serb-domi­which applied mainly to defense pact signed in July, relations nated areas patrolled by the of their border areas, Tudjman between Bosnia and Croatia 10,000 U.N. peacekeepers de­said. 

GO ND!! BEAT PURDUE!! 
have soured in recent months. ployed in Croatia. The U.N. 
troops are separating Serb separatist and Croatian troops whose fighting left 10,000 dead last year. 
At a news conference, the Bosnian and Croatian leaders said their governments had 

We're Still Here! 
"Please know of the sincerity of our desire to meet the needs of gay and lesbian students and to create a more welcoming place In which gay and lesbian students live In an atmosphere ofpeace and security." 
P. O'Hara, VIce-President for Student Afl'alrs, June 1, 1992 In a letter to the student leaders of an unrecognized gay/lesbian student organization turning dow!;1 their appeal for University recognition, P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556, Jeff 288-3878. 

What do a chemistry major, a mat1<eting major, a finance major,and an American Studies majorhave in common? 
They were all hired byLeo Burnett. 
Whether your major is basket weaving or political sdenc:e, you might have what ittakes to get into advertising. Because, at Leo Bumett. we look for more tilanjust a major We look for smart. fun, energertic people who are interested in tile wor1d of advertising. If you're one of tile interested. stop by our presentltion sept. 24 at tile Unrversity Club from 8-10 p.m. You'll see some great rommerdals, and you'll hear Notre Dame alums tell you what acareer in advertising is really like. (Get tilere ear1v. tile good fcx:x:l goes fast!) 


Leo Burnett Company, Inc. 
Advertising 


Thursday, September 24, 1992 The Observer page 7 
Digging replaces diplomacy in MIA search 
DANANG, Vietnam (AP) -A little diplomacy and a lot of digging count for more than derring-do in the joint U.S.­Vietnamese effort to account for Americans missing from the Vietnam War. 
For four years, with little fanfare, Americans have been regularly conducting searches, hacking their way through jun­gles-real and bureaucrati-to painstakingly collect evidence to help resolve the fates of the 1 ,658 servicemen unaccounted for from a war that ended 17 years ago. 
Members of the Pentagon's Joint Task Force-Full Account­ing unit last week concluded their 19th joint mission with their Vietnamese counterparts. Fifty-one analysts, anthropolo­gists, mortuary specialists, medics and ordnance experts from the Army, Navy and Air Force took part. 
The task force is the official 
U.S. body charged with ac­
counting for the 2,266 Ameri­cans listed as missing from the Indochina War. Besides those lost in Vietnam, 519 are missing in Laos, 81 in Cambodia and eight in China. 
"The work is not cut-and­dried," says Air Force Senior Master Sgt. Gary Flanagan, of Ballinger, Texas, interviewed at the task force's compound in Hanoi. "It involves a lot of luck, and hard work on the part of soldiers in the field." 
The U.S. effort was upgraded nine months ago, with an in­crease in personnel from 39 to 142, and a change in emphasis from analysis to operations. 
Task force members say the changes brought renewed en­ergy to their work. 
Flanagan postponed his retirement because he now has hopes of seeing the task completed. 
The task force teams have a three-fold mission. Investigation teams, through interviews and site surveys, pinpoint areas for excavation; recovery teams excavate such spots, which are generally crash sites and burial spots. 
Intelligence specialists research so-called live sighting reports, the tantalizing ac­counts of mysterious Western­ers sighted in post-war Vietnam who just might possibly be former prisoners-of-war. 
Task force members are careful to distinguish the differ­ent types of cases on which they work. 
In Vietnam, searchers have a list of more than 100 priority cases they are determined to investigate by the end of Jan­uary. Priority cases, by and large, are instances in which there is evidence that the missing individual was alive after surviving the incident of loss, after which his fate is un­known. 
Such cases might be based on reception of the individual's rescue beepe~ intercepted Vietnamese transmission indi­cating his capture, or even pub­lished photographs of the indi­vidual in captivity. 
Air Force Master Sgt. Bill Deeter worked on a Danang­based investigation team on the most recent search. 
They had some unexpected luck-they've been able to interview the former commander of a jungle prison camp who's been on their must­see list for 10 years. Officials of the Vietnamese Office Seeking Missing Persons, the task force's counterpart body, produced the man. 
The best available informa­tion indicates that six POWs died in the camp, which was constantly relocated because of fighting. 
The fate of one of them has never been confirmed. The commander has promised to lead them to the former camp areas, where they will excavate grave sites. 

vital issue after war 
BANGKOK,:Tha¥(l.ndjAP) ment currently lists 2,266 Rambo~sty · raysihave. .. service personnel as still launched, mUlion in rec. missing -1.658 in Vietnam, ward :ttlone .. ·· .~n~.l' · 519 in Laos~ 81 in Cambodia dies perpe ......... ed o.n the · and eight in Chinese coastal SJiiJ1 Q~dS that Ainerica_... S(Jl\' Waters. diers still languish inthe jail$ American experts and their and jlll1~les ofIndochina~ Indochinese counterparts have 
Nearly 20 years after the Ill~ been engaged in stepped up dochina War ended for the ground searches in all three united State$, ·three d~cad~s countries, With the 19th such after tM first casualties, tb.e joint search in Vietnam re~ que,stioJl.of~hat papp~ned ••~· c~:mtly ~ompleted.America/s missing fr<lm that Slowly and painstakingly, the conflictrema:~s vitf:li ...·... . ..• ..• MIA roster is being pared
tUs fueled by JfloUywotid down -.although it is movies. and con artists, the conceded that it will be im­sut'fering ofMIA fa_mil¥ #Imfi.., possiJ1Ie to resolve every case .. hers and revelations by senior High priority is being given u.~ ...o;:flcia\~ incJictttingtb.e to 135 so-called "discrepancy American .public has liQf cases'' >of American service.. 
· been fully inforiU~~. . menb~Ueved to be alive at the 
•fates. ofthe miSsing; N time of their capture but nei· 
Mc~ntlav.. • two see~ ther released in 1973 nor later reported as dead by their cap· tors. 
;; Reports of live Americans in Laos have been particularly numerous. Some private ..MIA 
i Jh:UJltetl·;" still maintain several are being held remote locations. . 
1980s, several gu~r­..nna-~t}'le operations.ixlto Laos were $!aged by private Ameri~ but failed to locate any .s•..Jtte.c:ervma the most pUb· . headed by a fl1};mboy­
·"'r"'""a:tAri Vietnam' 
~t 1~'Ptirm~~;ch was 

·group w:J·u~htJilCJVo,e.a former Con~ Hendon andMIA group offered to. anyone who COllltl tmott11ce a live American .seriditng. their message in across the boundary be­
.• u<twl<~mu and Laos. helpt;ld spur Indlocllinjese cot­

TheJssl!~ (l.lSC) t.>u1m1tnu tage industry. Over the years, dominate u.S.~v·.te·,u··:1arne~•e fake and real identificatl.on lations, with Washington tags, aircraft parts, animal insisting it receive a satisfac.~ and human bones, dubious tory MIA accounting before information and doctored pho­
E)Stablj,shtilg ties tographs have been offered for 
sale w American officials and private citizens. 

~GIANT 
~Pr«isJeeTJli&ht Cllola1l 

In the city... On the road... Or in the mountains... 
Giant® takes your cycling seriously. Giant bicycles are designed. engineered and crafted to be your precisely right choice. They're easy to ride. easy to enjoy and easy to afford ... Let us help you choose the one that fits your cycling needs. 
ONE OF MICHIANA'S LARGEST BICYCLE DEALERS_. 
G H T 11 S 

CYCLING & FITNESS 2720 LINCOLNWAY WEST MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46544 Phone: 255-8988 ( l I/2 blocks east of Ironwood.) 

Presidential debate in limbo six weeks before election 

(AP)--A presidential debate 

planned for next week perished 
on Wednesday, a casualty of 
President Bush's opposition to 
bipartisan ground rules de­
signed to bring him and Bill 
Clinton together on a televised 
stage. 
With the debate issue in limbo 

six weeks before the election, 
the president, his Democratic 
rival and their advertising 
gurus stepped UP''lhe intensity 
of the campaign for the White 
House. 
Bush "promised 30 million jobs in eight years. He's 29 million short," said a Clinton commercial aired in Texas, Bush's adopted home state. 
A Bush re-election commer­

cial countered that from cable 
television to beer, Arkansas 
Gov. Clinton has "raised state 
taxes, and not just on the rich." 
The commercials were the campaign in microcosm: the Democratic would-be president depicting Bush as the failed steward of the nation's econ­omy; Bush portraying Clinton as an untrustworthy governor of a small state. 
In Washington, the Commis­sion on Presidential Debates announced it had pulled the plug on the debate set for Louisville, saying that Bush's aides had refused to come to a meeting to discuss plans for the encounter. 
It was the second such cancellation in several days, and like the first, resulted from Bush's rejection of plans for a single-moderator debate. 
"We regret that a debate for the American public may not take place on Sept. 29," the panel said. " We remain committed to working to ensure that the American people benefit from debates between the candidates in this important election." 
Democratic vice presidential candidate AI Gore said Bush was "running for cover" from the debates. 
The president, well behind in the polls, said, "I want a de­bate...l will stand on my record and I won't let that Arkansas governor run away from his record, either." 
He objects, however, to the format proposed by the biparti­san commission that would have a single moderator in hopes of the most freewheeling possible debate. Bush favors a panel of three journalists ask­ing him and Clinton questions, the format used in 1988 de­bates. 
The president campaign aside, Democrats in Washington staged a media event for the party's 10 women Senate candidates. 
Each pledged change if elected. "Will the president veto a family leave bill if there are more of us in the U.S. Senate?" 
GREEI<S & CLUBS 
RAISE A COOL 
'1000 
IN JUST ONE WEEKI 
PLUS $1000 FOR THE 
MEMBER WHO CAlLS! 
No obligation. No cost You also get aFREE HEADPHONE RADIO just for calling 
1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 
asked Dianne Feinstein of California. "I think not." 
It was votes that Bush and Clinton sought as they carried out their daily sparring over economics, taxes and military policy, as well as grappling with the debate issue. 
Bush, underscoring the rhetoric in his new commercial, told campaign audiences in North Carolina and Pennsyl­vania that Clinton sees small business "as the goose that lays the golden eggs," and advocates taxes that would cut its profits. 
In contrast, the president out­lined a series of tax breaks and regulatory relief for small busi­ness that he said would help in business expansion. 
It includes a cut in the lowest corporate tax from 15 percent to 10 percent. White House aides said the tax breaks would be financed by passage of the spending cuts the president has previously outlined. 

you want Ros president of.......... United 
and get Qn ~UiJt llXIJ.!i''' 
TV a P3St . ,wquld leW support· whether .he should ··· 
active ean.p~gn. On Perot hint~d, such a was imndnenta.nd a mistake" by presidential race in 
Iri North LwrolJLna.•· .r tivist Ju~. Fotz tors in about 90 100 counties had Swindle's query. 
:..:.: ···.;.,~,~:.­
'Td sa.~'j)9 p~rceit> o(¢a)ls we're getting in, the answer is tf_), the ·first, and yes t() 'the 
iif!'I~~E~cll,nd," Fotz said. ~j\jif(i[lii// 
1J1\fPTOJ\[S 
'Ba&cms, Caris, (jift.s, atuf51ntiques 
{21~;~~:~1 ~ I'
1
Sutufay 10-6 
1627'Edison 1(pad • Soutfi 'Bend, f'J{ 46637 5lcross tfie street from Line6acfi:!r·adjacen t to Jamison fnn 


•$5.00 coupon · witfi $15.00 minimum purdUJ.Se • 'Britton 'l(nowft.s · Owner 

CALL LISA 284-5529 

JACK, WHERE HAVE YOU BEEN? 
American+ 
Red Cross 
, 

Business 
page 9 


Study cites education funding 
United States spends average percentage on learning 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Affluent international education Norway and Luxembourg, America spends only an indicators ever published. Sweden, Japan and Germany. average portion of its money on "We have never before had Turkey is the poorest among the education, compared with other comparable database" because 24 countries studied. industrialized nations. Japan of the differences both in The Bush administration touts spends the smallest percentage education systems and in the notion that the United but gets the most results for its methods of data collection, said States spends a great deal of its yen, a study of the world's 24 Albert Tuijnmann of the OECD wealth on education. But it wealthiest industrialized Secretariat. ranks behind 12 other democracies showed Tuijnmann, who helped industrialized nations in its Wednesday. prepare the report, said in an public spending on education, 
Denmark and Finland lead in interview that the countries and behind eight other nations spending public funds for began work about five years in overall spending, public and education, followed by Norway, ago to standardize definitions. private, according to the Canada, the Netherlands, They agreed to use 1988 data, report's charts of education Belgium and Luxembourg, said taking the national income and spending that include only 20 of the Organization for Economic dividing it by the entire the OECD's 24 countries. The Cooperation and Development, population, and then adjusting charts include no figures for an intergovernmental agency in it for what the money really Greece, Iceland, New Zealand Paris that monitors the world's buys. This measure of a and Turkey. economies. country's national wealth is the The 20 countries spent an 
The OECD report is the first to gross domestic product. average of 4.8 percent of the compare education systems According to the report, the GDPs in public funds on 
AP File Photo 

among industrialized nations, United States is the wealthiest education, with 0. 9 percent
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and Treasury Secretary 
and represents the most wide­industrialized nation, followed from private sources, the report
Nicholas Brady had an understanding of the Bush administration's 
ranging and reliable set of by Canada, Switzerland, said.
economic plan prior to Greenspan's reappointment, according to an 
L.A. Times Source. The source denied a report that Brady had pressured Greenspan to lower interest rates. 
FDA seeks fees from drug industry 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The for processing applications to ical art seem "as primitive as
Source: Greenspan knew 
Food and Drug Administration 12 months. FDA now takes an blood letting seems to us now," (FDA) needs to raise $350 mil­average of 20 months to decide Kessler said. lion to evaluate an anticipated whether a new drug can be The money raised from the
Bush's economic goals 
flood of new medicines for marketed, he said. user fees would be on top of 
WASHINGTON (AP) interest rates during the AIDS, cancer and other now­"The pharmaceutical, what Congress already gives to Treasury Secretary Nicholas meetings. incurable diseases, the agency's biotechnology, and medical in­the FDA and would allow the Brady and Alan Greenspan had But Coyne said he doubted commissioner says. dustries derive enormous pri­agency to hire 600 new em­"an understanding" prior to the that Greenspan felt he was To pay the hundreds of people vate benefit from FDA's review ployees, Kessler said. Federal Reserve chairman's being pressured to lower rates it will need to hire, the agency and approval," Kessler said. The idea is supported by the reappointment that the Bush during the meetings. wants to bill drug companies "FDA approval tells consumers administration, by Democrats in administration's 1992 economic "He didn't show he felt any for evaluating the products they that marketed medical products Congress and by the industry. goals were realistic, an pressure around here," Coyne want to market. FDA are safe and effective." But Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, administration source said said. Commissioner David Kessler Kessler said the agency ex­said he's not sure he likes it. He today. Coyne said he did not know said the fees should raise $350 pects a burst of new applica­ticked off a handful of reasons, 
But the source, who spoke whether Greenspan believed million over five years. tions in the coming years as including the possibility of only if not identified, denied a the administration's economic And the drug companies think medical science advances to causing more regulations and report in the Los Angeles Times goals were realistic. In any it's a good idea. treat such diseases as cancer raising the costs of drugs. today that Brady had pressured event, Coyne said, the Federal "It's a rather unusual situa­and AIDS. "As you can see, I'm not in the Fed chairman to heat up Reserve chairman "made no tion where a regulated industry He said research may pro­the best of moods," Hatch said the economy before this year's commitment" to lower interest seeks additional resources for duce gene therapies for cancer, at the end of his list of com­election. rates. its regulator," Irwin Lerner, AIDS and multiple sclerosis, plaints. 
Brady and Greenspan met The administration source president of Hoffmann-La "growth factors" that would The House and Senate are regularly, often on a weekly also denied that Brady sought Roche Inc., told the Senate La­help wounds heal quickly, and considering similar legislation, basis, during the Fed any commitment, but added bor and Human Resources drugs that would regenerate and Sen. Edward Kennedy, D­chairman's first term. Joseph that "there was an Committee on Tuesday. organs to help or replace ones Mass., chairman of the Labor Coyne, a Greenspan understanding" that the Kessler testified the fees that are damaged. Committee, said Congress may spokesman, acknowledged that administration's goals "were would pay for enough extra The coming advances may still be able to pass a bill on the Brady often talked about lower realistic and attainable." people to cut the agency's time make the current state of med-fees before it adjourns this year. 
White House plans veto of cable TV bill 
ly gaining,

WASHINGTON (AP) -The 
quirements on the cable indus­White House says President try and the government agen­
I to FedBush still intends to veto legis­cies that regulate it." lation to restrain cable televi­Sen. John Danforth, R-Mo., 
weakened in autos, aerospace,

sion fees. The Democratic another of the bill's sponsors, 
., and defense"-related industries.
I

presidential campaign says said he hoped Bush would 
' ... Outside these sectors. how­
Bush would do that "at his own change his mind. 
I 
ever, improvement is noted inperil." "There are a number of Re­.orders, production and sales."

Approval in both chambers publican senators who would The Federal Reserve report came on margins large enough like to support the president,
! was . compiled from 
' f 

to override a veto: 7 4-25 in the but have a record supporting information gathered by its 12 Senate on Tuesday; 280-128 in this. It's very hard to ask them 
hanks, based on 

the House earlier. Bush has to go back and change posi­
,.,i'"'"'"" with busjnefjs

vetoed 31 bills and none has tions," Danforth said. He said toJttdlltcted before Septbeen overridden. some change in circumstances be :used by top
A spokeswoman for the would be necessary to justify
AI Gore ]Il())l,atak}'Y nn''"'''-'.rn when 
Democratic vice presidential sustaining a veto. 
6 .to r~vililw

candidate, Sen. Al Gore of Ten­because of poor service. But Sen. Conrad Burns, R­
intP.rE\!lt·-r:~:tP. polices .. · nessee, said Bush "vetoes this Eventually, a referendum on Mont., a leading opponent of 
.,u:toe.nuta":;L9llfY, the c~htra.l

bill at his own peril." the TCI service was held, the· the measure, said he would be 
. reduced interest 

j
"For both Bill Clinton and Al company lost and the city de­working to get the eight votes 
24.tmt~.br an attempHn 

JGore, the choice is clear: you cided to build its own system. needed to sustain the presi­
th~ .. stag~ant

stand with the consumer," The measure would require dent's veto. 
with the latest 

Marla Romash said. "It's not so the Federal Communications "This is obviously a tough 
j
red~tti()J;Jt on Sept. 4 brlnging .~

clear with George Bush." Commission to determine rea­fight, but it isn't over," said d 
key iJrrtefb~mk lending rate to a 

Gore, who long has been a foe sonable rates for minimal cable James Mooney, president of the 
~YeaJ:JIPW of 3 percent. ;;·;

of what he calls cable TV's service and prices for equip­National Cable Television · only mildly
monopoly practices, is a mem­ment that consumers need to Association, which has led a book repor.t
ber of the Senate communica­use cable television, including vigorous campaign against the nrob<abl,v ,;vo:Lild not serve as a tions subcommittee and one of remote-control devices. bill through media and direct­afi()thtir cut, partiCldarly the bill's authors. He left the It also would enhance com­mail advertising. 
surg~s .~..Iii

campaign trail Tuesday to vote petition in local communities "Consumers are sick and =+r for the measure. between existing cable compa­tired of getting soaked by big 
Gore is scheduled to travel nies and others capable of pro­cable companies," Gore said. Thursday to Morganton, N.C., viding expanded television pro­"This legislation will force cable which spent $500,000 in a six­gramming. companies to do what they so year legal battle to rid itself of a Bush has said the bill would far have refused -answer to cable company operated by "hurt Americans by imposing a their customers and compete in Telecommunications Inc., the wide array of costly, burden­a market that for too long has nation's largest cable operator, some and unnecessary re-been a monopoly." 
Viewpoint 
-~-­
page 10 Thursday, September 24, 1992 


The Observer 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant 
Managing Editor John Rock 

News Editor•••..•.•.............. David Kinney 
Viewpoint Editor ········:~······Joe Moody Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Accent Editor ..•.•....... Jahnelle Harrigan Photo Editor........... Marguerite Schropp Saint Mary's Editor... Anna Marie Tabor 
Business Manager Richard Riley 
Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Controller ........................ David Beliveau 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Bush speech handled differently 
Dear Editor: 
In a letter to The Observer (Sept. 17). Glenn Fogarty rep­rimands faculty and students who, having objected to the handling of then Vice-President George Bush's visit to campus during the '88 campaign, did not protest Governor Clinton's visit this month. The abusive and sneering tone of Fogarty's letter does not invite dialogue. 
But as most of the student targets of Fogarty's accusation of hypocrisy are no longer here to defend themselves, and as few of today's students were here in '88, I think it necessary to respond for those who raised complaints four years ago. 
We did not object to Bush ap­pearing on campus, but instead to the manner in which the visit was packaged. While billed as a White Center for Law and Government lecture, the appearance was an unabashed rally. 
Those inclined to say that Clinton's visit was no different should consider the following facts. 
The university, while refusing to provide the services of our marching band, allowed the Bush campaign to bring in the Ball State Marching Band to accompany the candidate. 
As the news cameras rolled at the airport, the band played the Notre Dame Victory March. Following the speech, the cam­paign staged a photo session with the football team, images of which appeared on the evening news. 
We objected also to the man­ner in which access to the speech was restricted. The Col­lege Republicans received early word on the ticket distribution plan, and used their effective grapevine to inform only Bush loyalists. By the time others became aware how to obtain tickets, the tickets had already been snapped up by Bush sup­porters. 
Can Fogarty or anyone else object to members of the Uni­versity calling foul at such un­seemly and partisan scrambling to insure the candidate a friendly crowd'? 
Whether Clinton's speech was less of a stump speech than Bush's is a matter for debate, one about which reasonable people perhaps can disagree. But what is clear is that Governor Clinton's visit was made accessible to all the uni­versity community, not to sup­porters only, and that it un­folded without the Victory March and the football team. 
Perhaps the Clinton campaign had greater respect for Notre Dame as a community of learning, or perhaps the Uni­versity decided not to play pos­sum to campaign media consul­tants as it did in '88. 
In any event, the circum­stances that gave rise to the objections to Bush's visit did not repeat themselves this year, and thus the ugly charge of hypocrisy must appear ill-con­sidered and irresponsible. 
Stephen Fallon Associate Professor Program of Liberal Studies Sept. 18, 1992 
Thursday's Verse 

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
Stepping up to the edge of 56th and Watersharp­prophets shuffie past, bringing dollar signs from the skies for everyone's eye in everyone's living room. 
Holy slogans shout: Enjoy Coke, Drink Pepsi Artists far and wide provide the paid propaganda until5 p.m. when God closes. 
By John Barleycorn 
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA~AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
Send your unpublished poem to: Thursday's Verse, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN, 46556 

DOONESBURY 
Ex-guardsman relates his side of controversy 
Dear Editor: 
My love for Notre Dame foot­ball began at the age of five cheering for victories, crying for losses, and singing the fight song for touchdowns with my father. I adored the blue and gold 15 years ago and that ado­ration will be with me forever. 
Last year, I made the Irish Guard, and for a year and three games I dressed in a uniform that I loved and performed for 60,000 people. 
Now that my thrill of trotting to the roar of Knute Rockne Stadium on a Saturday after­noon has been taken from me, I must perform my last duty as an Irish Guardsman. 
First of all, I must dispel a rumor printed by our ever so inaccurate student newspaper detailing the pouring of a bottle of alcohol down the throat of an Irish Guardsman. It is rumors exactly like this one that have caused my dismissal. 
That Saturday morning, one of my brothers, a senior veteran guardsman, now an ex­guardsman, was extremely sick from (a) the stomach flu, (b) the heat involved with wearing fifty pounds of wool on a ninety de­gree day, and (c) the nerves in­volved with performing in front of tens of thousands of people. 
This so-called Observer eye witness did in fact see half the story, a sick Irish Guardsman by a tree at the Alumni Associa­tion's tailgater with his Irish Guard brothers around him. 
What made that bystander envision a bottle of booze rather than a coke given as aid to my brother by an alumni parked right next to that tree'? I will never know nor do I care to know about such idiots. 
What he, the rest of the stu­dent body, and faculty fail to understand is the true frame­work behind the Irish Guard. The Irish Guard is a fraternity filled with a love and brother­hood. It is not a secret or­ganization that simply hazes and humiliates its members. 
Last year, I was a rook with six other rooks. I can honestly say that I will never have a better year again in my life. 
Is it so bad to sip from a traditional drink on occasion or perform harmless actions that have been a part of Notre Dame men, doctors, lawyers, teach­ers, and executives for over thirty years'? No, I think not. 
An amazing feeling of pride overwhelms you when an alumni of the Irish Guard from 1962 comes up to you and is elated to see that the traditions have continued. Every organization on this campus has age-old traditions. I know that my rooks will carry on the long line of Irish Guard secret traditions, and I hope that your organizations can likewise continue their great legacies. 
I am no longer upset about Student Affairs' poor, unjudicial, and un-American handling of the Irish Guard's situation. When I look at all my positive experiences as a Guardsman, one fact will always remain with me: there are six guys in this world, my Irish Guard brothers, who will always stand by me with love and respect. That is love, that is brotherhood, and that is the Irish Guard. 
I will always be a member of the Irish Guard. No one can ever take that away from me. 
I love you Brothers, and good luck Rooks. 
Mike Maier Irish Guardsman Sept. 23, 1992 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"&T/JI&EN 1779/W/? 1841 THe RJPULATION !NC/?bAS£5/? 8f 172%, MAkiNG !Ra.ANIJ, BY /?15RA&U'5 IETIMAT&, 7H8 MET!?!3Nst3l.YfOPULAlW AReA OFeU!<DP&..." 
I OION'TREA/.,/Z/3 H£3 WAS 60/N<3 70 GET SO P£3RSONAL-! 
\ 
'The more that you give, the more it will take.' 
Grateful Dead 

One gathers what another submits: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

Accent 

Thursday, September 24, 1992 page 11 


Yesterday recreates the songs of the Beatles 
By ALISON DASSO 
Accent Writer 
Beatlemania will hit Saint Mary's when the four-man group, Yesterday, brings its live concert tribute to the Beatles to O'Laughlin Auditorium September 25 at 8 p.m. 
Don Bellezzo reprises his role as John Lennon, a part he first performed in the Los Angeles production of "Beatlemania." Tim Piper plays the role of Paul McCartney, his brother Greg Piper is George Harrison, and Dave Mealey, the newest member of the ensemble, sits behind the drums as Ringo Starr. 
The group got its start six years ago when Bellezzo put the quartet together. Bellezzo claims that he is able to play the part of John Lennon because of his resemblance to Lennon and also because of his musical ability. 
"It's easy to think of ourselves as the Beatles when we're up there on stage," Bellezzo said. 
Yesterday strives to re-create the Beatles' physical appearance as well as their sound. Nearly 30 songs recorded by the Beatles are crammed into Yesterday's two­hour performance, ranging from their earliest hits to the Sgt. Pepper-era-and-beyond tunes which the Beatles never actually performed on stage. 
During the first half of the show, the group dons the suits and mop-top hairdos characteristic of the early days of Beatlemania. For the second half of the performance, Yesterday sports the famous Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band uniforms. 

"If you want to see the Beatles, come and see us," urged Bellezzo. "The audience can expect to see impersonations of the Beatles live in concert and later on in their career." 
Even the Beatles' trademark instruments are replicated, 
down to the Hofner bass, the Gretsch and Rickenbacker guitars, and the Slingerland drum kit. 
Tickets for Yesterday are priced at $8 and $10 and are available at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Office hours are from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. Tickets can be charged to Visa, MasterCard, and Discover by calling 219­284-4626. 
Habitat for Humanity lends a helping hand to the community 
By EMILY HAGE on Activities Night, and The Habitat for Humanity was Accent Writer otherwise Habitat has spread founded by Millard Fuller in by word of mouth. The Americus, Georgia according to 
On most Saturdays of the members are presently selling the "theology of the hammer," year, members of the Habitat t-shirts in order to raise money said Benedetto. It is a Christian for Humanity, a group devoted for the club. organization, but accepts all to eliminating the housing Right now, the group is denominations. crisis, venture forth to one of planning a lecture series and In the early 1970s, Fuller, a the three sites in the South will also be giving a series of successful businessman, Bend area. talks to area high schools. underwent a conversion and 
Begun in 1988, the Habitat There are two approaches to decided to devote his expertise now consists of 100 members, providing housing for the poor. to eliminating the housing led by co-presidents Robert The Habitat can either build a crisis. He created the Habitat Benedetto and Katie McNeil. house from scratch or they can International based on the 
One of 200 campus chapters renovate the homes purchased Koinania Partners Christian 
ways. Church organizations while you're working with
in the United States, the Notre by Saint Joseph's county. community, which is still an often sponsor a house, and them." He added that, "It wasDame campus chapter was first In order for a family to active affiliate of the Habitat. 
professional building great to walk into the house
recognized by the university as participate in the program, they The Habitat became associations contribute their and look at what we had done. 
a club last year. must be interviewed by the incorporated as a non-profit expertise. Donating their time They are eternally grateful. I'veThe group is committed to county. If accepted, the family organization in 1976. Today it to the organization is valuable never seen people as thankfulthree goals: to supply has the opportunity to buy the exists in all 50 states and has to the companies as it serves as as they are." 
volunteers, act as a fund­house at a minimal cost. spread to 25 countries. The 
a form of advertising for them. Habitat for Humanity hasraising outlet for supplies, and Lumber is donated or bought, number of affiliates reached a been successful at Notre Dame,educate people on the housing and the families themselves total of 700 when campus According to Benedetto, one said McNeil, because thecrisis in the world. must put 500 "sweat hours" chapters were added in 1988. 
of the best things about the students enjoy seeing their
Most of the volunteers for the into the construction of the The construction of the homes 
Habitat is "developing labor result in a concrete
Notre Dame chapter signed up home. is funded in many different relationships with the family product that is appreciated. 

page 12 The Observer Thursday, September 24, 1992 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from f 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
ATTENTION: 
For more information and 
assistance regarding the 
investigation of financing, business 
opportunities and work-at-home 
opportunities, THE OBSERVER 
urges its readers to contact the 
Better Business Bureau of 
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., 
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­
9121 or 800-439-5313. 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
TYPING 287-4082 
·sENIORs• 
SENIOR ClASS CRUISE 
THUR. SEPT 24 
$25 
INCLUDES EVERYTHING!! 
BUY@ LAFORTUNE INFO DESK 
•SENIORS• 
Earn $ selling silk neck ties I hanks I suspender sets. Newest styles I great profit margin. $40.00 start up. (215) 824-2914. 
JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS!!! 
FORMAL, FRIDAY SEPT. 25 FORMAL, FRIDAY SEPT. 25 FORMAL, FRIDAY SEPT. 25 at Union Station 9pm tickets $16 at Lafortune Info desk. 
JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS!!! 
FORMAL, FRIDAY SEPT. 25 
FORMAL, FRIDAY SEPT. 25 
JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS!!!! 
•••• GRAPHIC LITERATURE •••• 
Entertainment for the 90's!!!! 
Find out what you're missing at: COLLECTOR'S DEN (Comics, Toys & Games) 4609 Grape Rd. 
JMS Plaza, Behind Hardee's 
M-F 11 to 7, Sat 10 to 6 
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!! BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday Pandora's Books 808 Howard 3 blks. from campus 233-2342 
TRAVEL FREE! SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS TO JAMAICA, CANCUN AND FLORIDA! BEST COMMISSIONS I FASTEST TO FREE TRAVEL! CALL SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710 
Typing 237-1949 Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: EYEGLASSES AND A BLACK CASE DURING MICHIGAN GAME WEEKEND. IF FOUND, CALL BRENDAN 234-1376. 
FOUND Watch 9/21 by lakes x4991 
LOST CALCULATOR 
Casio fx7000 (graphic display 
and other stuff). Badly needed. 
$$$ and no questions asked. 
Please call Jose @ x2070 
WANTED 
BONNIE DOON 
HAS POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR 
SERVERS, COOKS AND 
FOUNTAIN 
Apply in person to: 
52446 Dixie Way No., South Bend 
4615 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Guaranteed INCOME with 
HUGE PROFIT potential. 
Need extra money? 
Are you motivated? 
Want to have some fun? 
Send letter of interest to: 
Maingate Erterprises 
P0915 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
or CALL: 
287-6730 (Leave message) 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Pis need ride to BOSTON for Oct. 
break. Share gas & all. Brian 1 068 
WANTED: Part-time child care 
worker for in-home care of 2 
children, 1 infant. 10-12 
hours/week, afternoons. 273-1702. 
EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our circulars! ... Begin NOW!...FREE packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn $5000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545­4155 ext. A5584. 
$$$ NEED MONEY? $$$ 
Now hiring 10 drivers and 5 inside­help. Make $8-12/hour delivering for DOMINO'S PIZZA. Pt. time and Full time available. Employee discounts on pizzas. Business is booming. Call Brian at 271-0300 to set up an interview. 
HURRICANE, RECONSTRUCTION AND CLEANUP, MANY NEEDED. BOTH SKILLED & UNSKILLED, MEN & WOMEN. HIGH WAGES, FOR INFO. CALL 615-779-5505 EXT. 541 
TASP INTERNATIONAL IS LOOKING FOR INDIVIDUALS WHO WANT TO GAIN MANAGEMENT EXPERIENCE NEXT SUMMER. EARN $8,000­10,000. POSTION AVILABLE ACROSS INDIANA (MICHIGAN) ( ((((( ((((((( KENTUCKY) (TENNESSEE). CALL TOM SMITH 1-800-543­3792 
I NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET AND 2 GAs FOR STANFORD. PLEASE CALL #3074 OR# 2599. 
Looking for Bagpipe Practice Chanters. Call Ed 277-6976. 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST for ND-SMC families. 2 bdrms. w/twin beds; 1 bdrm. w/single. 10 mins. from campus in attractive neighborhood. For football & special weekends. Call 234-2626. 
Near N.D. cozy furnished apts. studio-$220 I bedroom-$255 2bedroom-$280 Deposit, 1-800-582-9320 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
B & B -UNIQUE COUNTRY SETTING. MINUTES FROM NO. NEAR GRANGER. 616-663-8308. 
FOR SALE 
RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR, TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR, TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY FREE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-5959 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 MERCEDES.........$200 
86 vw.......................... $ 50 
87 MERCEDES.......... $100 65 MUSTANG............. $ 50 Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright #IN11KJC. 
IBM Compatible 286 Computer. Keyboard, Monitor, Mouse. 
14 EGA Monitor 40 MB hard drive 
12 MHz speed 640KB RAM memory High Density 1.2 MB 5.25 floppy 
Dot Matrix Printer 
219-656-8987. 
'88HORIZON 
POWER BRAKES & STEERING. NEW TIRES, A/C. 
51,000 MI. 289-1564. 
CHEAP FLIGHT NY (LGA) to SB OCT 23 Call Brian 273-0967 
'86 Cavalier RS, 2 door, black 
Excellent transportation 
$1,800 or best offer 
Please call 284-5376 before 5pm 
FOR SALE 
1986Toyota Tercel Wagon 
GREAT CAR 
4WD/SR5 am/fm/cass AIR 
BOOK VALUE $4,475 
call 239-5959 
STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKETS 
SELLING BOOKLETS! 
ROW SIX SEATS! 
CALL BECKY 283-2689 For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call Rita Delivery on Campus 234-6524 
FOR SALE: 
ROUND-TRIP TICKET 
South Bend -DENVER 
Fall Break, $165 
Call MARGARET x4087 
TICKETS 
NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX CALL JOE OR JAY X 1760 
I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.272-6306 
STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE 
CALL 283-1747 
I'VE GOT TWO PURDUE GAs YOU'VE GOT TWO PENN STATE GAs WANNA TRADE? Call Bret (me) at 1248. !love you. 
player needs many PU GAs and 2 stud tix call Rich or Tom-1121 
NEED 3 STAN GA'S-WILL PAY BIG$$$ CALL PHIL-283-3542$$$ 
STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKET BOOK FOR SALE -ALL TICKETS AVAILABLE-CALL KATIE AT 284-5443 -LEAVE MESSAGE, BEST OFFER!I! 
NEED BC GA's. Call Kickham at 1068 
I need 1 student ticket for Stanford Joe X1666 
NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PURDUE & BYU. PERSONAL USE ONLY. CALL 271-9540. 
Want to trade 2 GA Purdue tix for 2 GA Stanford tix. Call 606-278-9820 
DESPERATE ALUM NEEDS 6 GA TIX TO STANFORD GAME. WILL MAKE VERY GENEROUS OFFER. CALL 412-644-3125 (DAY) OR 412­441-9613 (EVENING). 
I'll do anything for 1 GA to B.C. or Penn St. Lisa 284-5080. 
Need many BC GAs or M.Stud. $ or will trade Pur, Stan or BYU GAs. Nick or Tracey 239 7733. 
WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE GA'S FOR 2 PENN ST. GA'S OR 2 STANFORD GA'S. 277-3097. 
NEEDED: 2 STANFORD GA'S CALL MIKE x1528 
I NEED 1 PURDUE STUDENT OR GA! CALL LISA @ 273-2527 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED PURDUE GA'S FOR MY 
FUTURE IN-lAWS!!!!!!!!! 
PLEASE HELPIII!II! 
ED @ 272-0864 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
SELLING 1BYU AND NEED 1 
BC TICKET. CALL NATASHA 
1257 
PURDUE 
stud. tkts. FOR SALE!!! call #1756 
NEED 2 PURDUE GA's 
CALL Derek x1771 
REALLY NEED 2 PURDUE GAs OR STUDENT TIX CONTACT LYNN X1675 
I NEED 3 PENN ST GA'S 
WILL PAY, MIKE x2209 
Billy Ray Cyrus (4th Row) For Sale or Trade For GAs 289-3273. 
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ 
FOR SALE 
PURDUE STU TIX 
My brothers cannot come, so their 
tickets are for sales, please help 
Michael283-1161 
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ 
I NEED 1 PURDUE GA. I HAVE $ BRIAN X4073 

//PURDUE//PURDUE//PURDUE/1 4 GA's, x1166 Scott, Paul 
NEED PURDUE TIX! CALL X4074 
FOR SALE: STUD AND GA TX TO 
EVERY GAME x1416 ANTHONY 
I have 2 Purdue GAs & 
2 Stanford GAs! Want 
Penn St GAs Ask for 
John x1372 
Have Purdue & BC Stud. Tix Will sell or trade for Penn St. & Stanford Tix plus $ 
Eric x1200 

$ RICH family needs 6 GAs $ $ for Stanford game $ $Call Pat@ 1900$ 
Please help!!ll'm in DESPERATE 
need of Penn State GA's ..... 
Call Ann 284-5241 
Have 1 purdue student ticket! Do ya want it?? Call Beth x4801 (: 
I NEED PURDUE GA'S CALL TIM 289-6052 $$$$ 
TRADE: 2 BYU GA'S FOR 2 BC GA'S (715-359-0222) 
NEED 3 PURDUE GAs. PLEASE CALL MARY@ 271-7288 
MOMONEYI 
MO MONEY! --MO MONEY! SELL ME YOUR PU GA's TO GET... 
MO MONEY! 
CALL TOM 289-8735 
NEED PURDUE GAs CALL EMMETT x1 084 
need stanford stud tix or purdue ga's-call mike 1594 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston College GAs or student tix. Call Jill @ x4758 or x4721. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY 
HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 618-439-3338. 
HELPII I Need 4-5 GAs for Nov. 7 BC game. Please call x3799. Thanks. 
NEED PENN STATE TICKETS. WILL PAY $40 EACH. CALL COLLECT 614-354-5716 
Need GA's for all home games Brian 273-8368 
Need GA's for all home games Kim 284-4401 
NEED PURDUE GA'S. CALL SANDY AT 272-6194. 
HELP!!! 

NEED 2-4 PENN ST. GA'S OR 
STUD. TIX. CALL ALAN x1597 
Wanted: Stanford vs Notre Dame 1-415-991-3416 call collect 
NEED 2 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S. Morrissey Hall & Law School Alumnist. Please help. Call David at 816-931-1267. 
Need 1 Stant. G.A. pay top$$ call Scott x4243 
STANFORD TICKETS 
I NEED STANFORD TICKETS!!I 
CALL COLLEEN AT 283-4528. 
111111111111!11111111!111111111!11111111111111111111111!1 
STANFORD.STANFORD• 
HELP MEl 

I NEED STANFORD GA'SI IF YOU HAVE ANY CALL SABOL AT 283-2950 ·sTANFORD.STANFORD• 1!!!!1!!!1!1!11!!!!!!!!11!!!!1!111111!!!!11111!!!!!!!!!!! I!! 
N.D. BAND DAD NOS G.A. FOR 
B.Y.U. REASONABLE. SARAH X3874 
NEED 1 PURDUE STD. TICKET 
CALL 289-5980 

I need 3 G.As and 1 student ticket 
for the Stanford game. If you can 
help, please call Suzy at x3722. 
I need lots of PURDUE tickets!! Call Nicole x1564 
Need 1 0 plus BYU GA's Call #1852 
Need 4 BC Ga's Have Purd, byu stud tx 
and free kitten. 
Brian 273-1962 
NEED PURDUE GA's FOR G-PARENTS!!! CALL 284-5118 
Need Pur. & Stan. GA's Call Mike #1151 Leave msg. 
$$$$NEED PENN STATE TIX$$$ Student tix or GA's. Call x2998. 
WILL TRADE 2 STAN. GA's for 2 PURDUE GA's call Ted x2647 
HELP! I NEED 10 PENN ST GAs!$ is no object! call Pat x2071 
I NEED 1 STANFORD GA CALL ART x1153 
Need 2 PENN St GA's and 1 BYU GA-Call 273-2873 
Need 2 Penn State GA's Please Call Lisa at 289-3790 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I DESPERATELY NEED GA & STUD STANFORD TIX!! ERIN #2638 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call 1-800-922-BEAR. 
Selling STUDENT TICKET BOOKLETS. Luis 273-1528 
Help! I need two Purdue GA's. Will pay $$$$. Call Alan @ 273-2624. 
NEED TO TRADE 2 PURDUE GA'S FOR 2 STANFORD GA'S CALL X2707 
NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S CALL ANDREW AT 1881 
$NEED 2 STANFORD$ $GAs x3593$ 
Need 2 PU & 2 BYU GA's Call Lyn 283-4551 
YOU YOU YOU YOU YOU CAN CAN CAN CAN CAN HELP HELP HELP 
I NEED GAs for FAMILY 
PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE HELP HELP HELP 
KYLE 287-9118 
THANK THANK THANK YOU YOU YOU 
I desperately need STANFORD TIX! Monique x4042 
have PU GA'S will sell or trade for Stan. GA's +$call Chris 273-2514 
I NEED STANFORD TIX!! STUDENT OR GA'S ARE OK!! CALL MICHAEL •4239 
NEED Stanford Tix. Call Matt x1741 
WILL TRADE 2 stud. BYU or stud. tix to any home games for 2 STANFORD GA'S MATT x3335 
I NEED 1 BC GA, DAVE, x4506 
I need 6 Purdue GA's call Kathleen X4092 
pleeeeeeese! i need 1 or 2 stanford ga's call lisa X4845-leave a message 
BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR PURDUE AND OTHEn HOME GAMES. APPROX $30/GAME. JIM 273-9059. 
WILLING TO TRADE: 
2 BYU GA'S FOR 2 BOSTON 
COLLEGE GA'S. 
CALL KATY AT 273-2989! 
FOR SALE 

2 Married Stud Tix Books 
Call 271-7197 
I need 2 Purdue GAs. Decent $ for decent tix; good $for good tix. Rich, leave a message 233-9279 I need 2-3 GA's for the Stanford game. Will pay lots of cash. Angel x2545 
PURDUE GA'S 4SALE CALL PAUL X1240 
I NEED AT LEAST 3 GAs 4 BC 
GAME CALL TARA X2605 
Purdue GAs for sale 
2711168 
I Need 1 Purdue GA 271-8139 
PERSONAL 
Hey Niff 

TOP TEN QUOTES FROM MSU for DUI, My Cousin Vinny, and assorted Zahmbies 
10) Let's get 2 waters, a large lemonade, and biggy coke for the ice only. 
9) A plunger--you've played this before. 
8) Harriet Beecher Stowe--Get outta the car. 

7) It all looks the same in the dark. 
6) There's a guy in his boxers changing in the street. 

5) That's OK--we'll take the floor 
4) GOOD MOANING VIETNAM! 
3) Do another cartwheel--tow in a 
row 

2) Where's their student section? The parking lot! 
1) Is this railing sturdy--SMACK! 
Great times, guys! Love, Col and La 
OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 

MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR FREE. HAIRCUTS. CALL COSIMO'S 277-1875. 
A touch of elegance doesn't have to cost a lot of money... Greenfields Cafe 
ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Please let us help you in this difficult time. Confidential and legal. Medical expenses paid. Collect anytime. (8 18) 246-1763 
Do you need a ride to Miami, OH? I'm going this weekend. Call Dave x4274 
Mary O'Connor, Thanks for the cookies. Hope your Calc test went well. Remember, Big Brother is watching. 
--Your Big Brother 
P.S. Sorry about the scolding yesterday. 

ATTENTION ARTS & LETTERS MAJORS-Ever thought about a career in advertising? Join Leo Burnett Company of Chicago at Univ. Club, THURSDAY SEPT 24th at 8pm. FREE APPLES! 
ATTENTION SCIENCE MAJORS 
Ever thought about a career in advertising? Join Leo Burnett Company of Chicago at Univ. Club, THURSDAY SEPT 24 at 8pm. 
FREE APPLES! 
ATTENTION ENGINEERING MAJORS-Ever thought about a career in advertising? Join Leo 

Burnett Company of Chicago at Univ. Club, THURSDAY SEPT 24 at 8pm. FREE APPLES! 
DEEP THOUGHTS: Pubic hair...why??? 

TOP 10 REASONS TO GET SOME PLAY IN THE LYONS HALL VOLLEYBALL TOURNEY 
10. You can't have more fun doing it than doing it for charity. 
9. You'll have a chance to put both wrists together for something besides handcuffs. 
8. You don't have to be "21" to be served. 
7. You can work on your tan ... Not. 
6. You can stay on the team regardless of how many donations you receive from NO Alumni. 
5. It's not covered in Dulac. 

4. You might never have a chance to see Lyonite's legs through black net. 
3. You don't have to wait for an SYR to be set up. 
2. Get to spike a Lyonite ... You'll really dig it! 

1. It may be your only chance to score at ND! 
see CLASS/page 18 

AMERICAN LEAGUEAMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE BASEBALL Eaat Dlvlalon ..
BATTING-EMartlnez, Seattle, .343; Puckett, BA TYING-Sheffield, San Diego, .332; American League Minnesota, .329; Molitor, Milwaukee, .325; VanSlyke, Pittsburgh, .327; Kruk, Philadelphia, AL-Announced that Todd Stottlemyre, Toronto w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Thomas, Chicago, .320; Mack, Minnesota, .319; .325; Roberts, Cincinnati, .320; Gwynn, San Diego, Blue Jays pitcher, had dropped his appeal and 
Toronto 89 63 .586 z-7-3 Won 1 49-27 40-36 Milwaukee 84 67 .556 4112 z-8-2 Won 1 48-28 36-39Griffey, Seattle, .316; RAiomar, Toronto, .313. .317; Bonds. Pittsburgh, .315; LWalker, Montreal, would Immediately begin serving his five-game Baltimore 82 68 .547 6 4-6 Lost 1 40-35 42-33RUNS -Phill~. Detro~. I tO; Thomas, Chicago, .311. suspension . 
New York 72 79 .477 16 1/2 z-4-6 Won 3 39-37 33-42103; EMartlnez, Seattle, 100; RAiomar, Toronto, RUNS-Bonds, Pittsburgh, 102; Grissom, CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Signed an agreement Cleveland 71 79 .473 17 z-6-4 Won 1 38-36 33-43
99; Knoblauch, Minnesota, 96; Raines, Chicago, Montreal, 97; DHolllns, Philadelphia, 95; to be affiliated with the Vancouver Canadians of 96; Anderson, Banimore, 95; Mack, Minnesota, 95; VanSlyke, Pittsburgh, 93; Sandberg, Chicago, 93; the PacHic Coast League. Detro~ 71 81 .467 18 z-6-4 Lost 2 35-40 36-41 Puckett, Minnesota. 95. Pendleton, Atlanta, 92; Biggio, Houston, 91. National League 84 .444 21 1/2 2-8 Lost 2 4t-35 26-49
Boston 67 Weal Dlvlalon
RBI-Fielder, Detroit, 119; Carter, Toronto, 111; RBI-Daulton, Philadelphia, 105; Pendleton, FLORIDA MARLINS-Signed a four-year GBell, Chicago, 107; Thomas, Chicago, 105; Atlanta, tOO; Shellleld, San Diego, 96; McGrilf, agreement to be affiliated with the Kane County 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Oakland 92 59 .609 z-8-2 Lost 1 48-27 44-32Puckett, Minnesota. 103; Belle, Cleveland, 102; San Diego, 96; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 94; LWalker, Cougars of the Midwest League. 
Minnesota 84 67 .556 8 z-6-4 Won 2 44-30 40-37Devereaux, Baltimore, 1 02. Montreal, 90; Murray, New York, 89. NEW YORK !.lETS-Announced they terminated Chicago 81 69 .540 10 1/2 6-4 Won 1 47-30 34-39HITS-Puckett, Minnesota, 197; Baerga, HITS-Pendleton, Atlanta, 187; VanSlyke, their working agreement with Tidewater Protes­Texas 72 80 .474 201/2 3-7 Lost 1 34-43 38-37Cleveland, 186; Molitor, Milwaukee, 184; Pittsburgh, 185; Sheffield, San Diego, 177; sional Sports Inc. and have taken over control ol California 67 83 .447 24 1/2 Z-4-6 Lost 2 37-37 30-46EMartinez, Seattle, 181; Mack, Minnesota, 179; Grissom, Montreal, 174; Grace, Chicago, 173; the Tidewater Tide& of the International League. 
Kansas City 67 83 .447 24 1/2 5-5 Won 2 42-34 2>49Mattingly, New York, 174; Devereaux, Banimore, Sandberg, Chicago, 172; Lankford, St. Louis, 167. PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Recalled Brad Seattle 57 94 .377 35 1-9 Lost 3 34-41 23-53173. DOU BLES-VanSiyke, Pittsburgh, 43; Brink. pitcher, \rom Scranton-Wikes Barre of the In­
DOUBLES-EMartlnez, Seattle, 46; Thomas, Lankford, St. Louis, 38; Grissom, Montreal, 38; ternational League. 
NATIONAL LEAGUEChicago, 39; GrKfey, Seattle, 38; Mattingly, New WCiark, San Francisco, 38; Duncan, Phlladephia, SAN DIEGO PADRES-Fired Greg Riddoch, E..t Dlvlalon
York, 38; Jefferies, Kansas City, 35; Yount, 38; Grace, Chicago, 36; JBell, Pittsburgh, 36; manager. Named Jim Riggleman manager. w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away
Milwaukee, 35; Ventura, Chicago, 34; Puckett, Pendleton, Atlanta, 36. BASKETBALL Minnesota. 34. TRIPLES-DSanders, Atlanta, 14; Finley, National B..ketball Aaaocfatlon Pittsburgh 89 62 .589 7-3 Lost I 50-28 39-34 
Montreal 82 69 .543 7 z-4-6 Lost 4 39-37 43-32
TRIPLES-Devereaux, Baltimore, 11; Houston, 12; VanSlyke, Pittsburgh, It; Butler, Los UTAH JAZZ-Signed David Benoit, lorward. to a LJohnson, Chicago, 11; Anderson, Baltimore, 9; Angeles, It; Alicea, St. Louis, I 0; Morandlni, four-year contract. 
St. Louis 76 74 .507 12112 5·5 Won 1 39-34 37-40 
Chicago 75 76 .497 14 5-5 Lost 1 40-35 3>41Lofton, Cleveland, 8; RAiomar, Toronto, 8; Sierra, Philadelphia, 8; Ollerman, Los Angeles, 8; Continental Basketball Association New York 68 82 .453 201/2 5-5 Won 1 38-36 30-46Oakland, 7; Raines, Chicago, 7; Molitor, Sandberg, Chicago, 8. FORT WAYNE FURY-Signed Craig Upchurch, Milwaukee, 7. HOME RUNS-McGriff, San Diego, 34; forward. 
Philadelphia 61 88 .409 27 z-4-6 Won 2 36-39 25-49 HOME RUNS-JuGonzalez, Texas, 40; Sheffield, San Diego, 32; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 30; GRAND RAPIDS HOOPS-Signed Tim Ander­
Weal Division w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home AwayMcGwire, Oakland, 40; Carter, Toronto, 33; Fielder, Daulton, Philadelphia, 27; DHollins, Philadelphia, son, torward. 
Atlanta 90 60 .600 z-5-5 Lost t 46-28 44-32Detroit, 32; Belle, Cleveland. 31; Deer, Detroit, 29; 25; Sandberg, Chicago, 25; LWalker, Montreal, 22. ROCHESTER RENEGADE-Signed Roderick T ettleton, Detroit, 29. STOLEN BASES-Grissom, Montreal, 73; Wade. forward. 
Cincinnati 84 67 .556 6112 z-8-2 Won 6 5t-24 33-43 
San Diego 78 72 .520 12 3-7 Won 1 43-33 35-39
STOLEN BASES-Lofton, Cleveland, 61; DeShields, Montreal, 46; Roberts, Cincinnati, 43; YAKIMA SUN KINGS-Signed William Hunter Listach, Milwaukee, 53; Anderson, Baltimore. 51; Lankford, St. Louis, 42; Butler, Los Angeles, 41; and Sean Tyson, lorwards. 
Houston 72 79 .477 t81/2 5-5 Lost 3 42-33 30-46 
San Francisco 67 84 .444 23 112 4-6 Lost t 40-36 27-48Polonia, Calilornia, 51; RAiomar, Toronto, 46; OSmith, St. Louis, 41; Nixon, Atlanta, 40. FOOTBALL Los Angeles 61 90 .404 29 112 z-5-5 Won 1 37-39 24-51RHenderson, Oakland, 46; Raines, Chicago, 44. National Football League z-denotes lirst game was a win.
DETROIT LIONS-Signed Andre Jones, linebacker, to the practice squad. 

AMERICAN LEAGUE
INDIANAPOLIS COLTS-Signed Hendricks 

Thursday's Games NATIONAL LEAGUE
Johnson, wide receiver. Waived Jeff Graham, quar · 

Detro" (Tanana t3-9) at New York (Kamieniecki Thursday's Games 5-12), 7:30 p.m. 
Atlanta (Giavlne 20-6) at San Francisco Cleveland (Scudder 6-9) at Boston (Dopson 7­
RAMS-Placed Todd Lyght. 

(Brantley 5-7), 3;35 p.m. 9), 7:35 p.m. 
on in­

Signed Sammy Lilly, cornerback. Houston (Blair 5-6) at San Diego (Seminara 8­Toronto (Key 1 t-13) at Baltimore (McDonald 12 4), 4:05p.m. 
and Leon White, linebacker. Released Troy Strad­

12), 7:35 p.m. 
Pntsburgh (Drabek 14-10) at Montreal (KruegerCalifornia (Biyleven 8-9) at Milwaukee (Bosio 
0-0), 7:35p.m. 15-5), 8:05p.m. Chicago (Castillo 9-10) at Philadelphia (Greene Oakland (Welch 10-6) at Chicago (McDowell 20 3-2), 7:35p.m. 
PATRIOTS-Signed Walter 
NEW YORK GIANTS-Signed Jesse Campbell, 

8), 8:05 p.m. 
New York (Saberhagen 3-4) at St. Louis Seattle (Leary 7-9) at Kansas C"y (Rasmussen 
(Osborne t0-8), 8:05p.m. 2-0), 8;35 p.m. 
BAY BUCCANEERS-Signed Brian 

Blados, offensive lineman. Waived Rhett Hall, de­Cincinnati (Ayala t -1) at Los Angeles (Ojeda 6­
Only games scheduled 
9), 10:35 p.m. Friday'• Games 
Friday's Games Toronto at New York, 7:30p.m. 
Hockey League St. Louis at Philadephia, 2. 5:35 p.m. 
Boston at Ba~imore, 7:35 p.m. 
Chicago at Montreal, 7:35p.m. 
HARTFORD WHALERS-Sent Corey Beaulieu, 

Cleveland at Detroit, 7:35p.m. 
Cam Brauer, Brian Chapman, Scott Humeniuk, New York at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. 
Oakland at Milwaukee, 8:05p.m. 
Atlanta at San Diego, 10:05 p.m. Stevens Houston at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 
Karl Johnson, Yuri Krivokhizha, Scott Matusovich, 

CaiHornia at Chicago, 8:05 p.m. 
Kansas City at Minnesota, 8:05 p.m. 
and Martin Hamrlik. delensemen; Denis Chaliloux, Cincinnati at San Francisco, 10;35 p.m. 
Seattle at Texas, 8:35p.m. 
Leonid Toropchenko, centers; Barry Nieckar,left wing; Paul Guay, Trevor Stienburg and Paul Cyr, right wings; and Mike Le­

the American Hockey League. Sent Mark Visheau. NIAGARA-Named James Daye assistant bas­Mario Gosselin, goaltenders. to 
delenseman, to London ol the Ontario Hockey ketball coach. League. 
NORTHEAST MISSOURI STATE-Announced
WASHINGTON CAPITALS-Assigned Rick Cor­

COLLEGE the resignation ol Lois Heeren, women's basket­
riveau, delenseman; Justin Morrison, center; and 

AKRON-Extended the contract of Coleman ball coach, to become an assistant coach at to Hampton Roads ol the Crawtord, men's basketball coach, through the Southwest Texas State. 1994-95 season. 
SAN FRANCISCO STATE-Announced the res­
JETS-Sent Mark Richards and ARKANSAS STATE-Named Brian Oldlield, ignation ol Harry Marra. track and held coach, el­

Sean Gauthier, goa~enders; Rob Cowie, delense­

Scott Shaffer and Brad Miller men's assistant track lective at the end of the 1992 tall semester. 
man; and Craiq Martin. riQht wing, to Moncton ol and lield coaches. 


Tonight 

Alumni--Senior Club 
\/--''·:,....,1 
The Place To Be For The Class Of '93 
9 2 
must be 21 


, 
t r I ! ! ! t
, 
t
,
, 
! 
! 
! 
' 
I I 
,! 
t 
! 
t t t
, ,I r 
, ! 
page 14 1he Observer I hursday, ::>eptember 24, 1992 
Surprising number of blockbuster trades marks the off-season in NBA 
(AP) NBA general managers, The Orlando Magic, in the offseason blockbuster still seemingly handcuffed by salary second category, are stockpiling looms. cap constraints a year ago, are draft picks, while the New York The Houston Rockets and hurling blockbusters with Knicks, in the first category, Hakeem Olajuwon both are amazing frequency this have traded two first-rounders, tight-lipped about whether they offseason. a second-round pick and Mark want to break up, but they 
Jackson for veterans like haven't said they want to make 
Charles Barkley, Jeff Blackman, Tony Campbell, up, either. Hornacek, Rolando Blackman, Smith and Doc Rivers. The SuperSonics and Miami Chuck Person, Pooh Richard­"Teams getting closer to Heat, who already acquired son, Charles Smith, Rodney championship level historically John Salley, are two of the McCray, Jay Humphries and have used trading draft picks to teams most prominently Dale Ellis are among the top complete the cycle," Whitsitt mentioned in Olajuwon trade players traded since the 1991-said. "At the other end of the scenarios. 92 season ended three months spectrum, you're trying to "Marquee guys don't move ago. rebuild, moving veterans that too often," Whitsitt said, "but 
"For the most part, the won't help you in the future and Wilt Chamberlain, Kareem players getting traded aren't getting draft picks." Abdui-Jabbar and Oscar role players," Seattle Super­Whitsitt said the public Robertson were traded, so Sonics president Bob Whitsitt misconception is that a team anyone can be traded. It al­said Wednesday. "These are making a move to acquire a ready has happened to starters. Cap management is veteran made a bad deal if it Barkley." what it's all about when the doesn't win a title. desire is present to make a "Only one team can win a One danger for a team trade." championship," Whitsitt said. making as many changes as the 
Whitsitt said the teams "Even if Blackman doesn't work Knicks, who could have as dealing with each other often out the way the Knicks hope, it many as four new starters, is come in two categories -those doesn't mean it was a bad move that they won't have time to trying to make the jump from at the time. Why shouldn't they adjust to each other's games. playoff team to championship go for it?" "Any time you add a new team and those trying to re­player it takes time for them to build under a new coach or Even with all the multi-team, learn together," Knicks vice management. multi-player deals, the biggest president Ernie Grunfeld said. 


CAMPUS MINmRY... .....CoNSIDERATIONS 
Fidelity, simplicity, wonder 

To revel in the crispness of the air, to joyfully celebrate the change of the Last year I took part in a series of conversations with a group of my good 
seasons, to enjoy the quirky sounds of the geese, these can be tonics to friends where the object of our discourse was to come up with a short list 
lift any rotten mood. Getting all excited about one of the sciences, or all of the values we deemed most needed for Christian life in modem intrigued by how some gadget is put together, or all caught up in the America. Our conversations were spirited. Our attitude was all~knowing, 
sounds of great music fills our life with precious grace. Receiving life as a 
probably pompous. Our purpose in composing this short list was to try to gift is the real beginnings of prayer; cultivating a sense of wonder and awe lay the foundation for imagining a new approach to religious education is a vital spiritual discipline. for young adults. We figured if we had at least some clue of what we wanted to teach, we might gain a decent headstart towards knowing how In the end, like all the Christians who 
to teach it. have gone before us, we seek lives that are shaped by and known for faith and hope The values we came up with, as needed in our time, were three: fidelity, 
and love. But for your Thursday lunchtime simplicity, and wonder. meditation this week, my friends and I 
suggest that the particular path to these The ways of our world are shallow. The teachings of modem society cardinal virtues in our time may pass through emphasize self~gratification and the avoidance of pain. If you watch fidelity, simplicity and wonder. enough Oprah or Donahue, you can get the idea that nobody follows 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
through an any of their commitments anymore. Hence our call to fidelity. Enough marriages have ended in divorce. Enough priests and nuns have left their ministries. Enough promises have been broken. Surely we all know that life is tough, and nobody knows the circumstances of any particular life story well enough to judge another. 

WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Yet when we talk to the young, it seems we must emphasize the 

Sat. Sept. 26 5:00p.m. Rev. Joseph Ross, C.S.C. 
importance of living our life for truth, loyal to the wisdom we inherit, 

Sun. Sept. 27 8:00a.m. Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. 
committed to our promises, and trusting in the promises of God to give 

lO:OOa.m. Rev. Wiiiam Seetch, C.S.C. 
strength to those who seek after fidelity. The reason can be persevere is 

11:45a.m. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. 
not because of our strength, but God's. 
The second value it seems important to call for or hold up is simplicity. 
The love of material possessions is robbing our life of joy. The need to endlessly consume is destroying the ecological balance of the planet. The 

Scripture Readin~s for this
accumulation of conspicuous wealth while great numbers of our sisters and brothers have so little, or nothing at all, numbs our souls and makes 

Comin~ Sunday 
us sad, and finally, it makes us sinners. Only when those of us who have so much can consciously choose to live with less, to live simply, will 
there be a chance for a decent life for those who have so little. This 

1§1 Reading: Amos 6, 1. 4 -7 
coming Sunday's Gospel is a clear and strong story, unable to be avoided. 

nd Reading: 1 Timothy 6, 11 -16 The third value we may need to cultivate in our modem life seems to be 
Gospel: Luke 16, 19-31 
wonder. So many other things would probably fall into place if we could gently cultivate within ourselves real joy and awe about the amazing gifts of life and creation and relationships. 
-~------­

Thursday, September 24, 1992 
McEnroe wants to be Davis Cup captain 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -It's an uneasy alliance these days be­tween John McEnroe and U.S. Davis Cup captain Tom Gor­man. McEnroe is publicly cam­paigning for a job that Gorman is not ready to give up. 
The captain serves as coach and adviser to the team, which this weekend meets Sweden in the semifinal on the red clay at Target Center. And McEnroe, the top player in U.S. Davis Cup history, says he'd be perfect for the job. 
''I've been doing this for a long time. September of '78 was my first match," said McEnroe, who'll be paired with Pete Sampras against Sweden's Stefan Edberg­Anders Jarryd doubles team. "For me, it would be a great transition." 
Gorman, in his seventh year, is noticeably uncomfortable discussing the situation. 
"It's tough for m 'o talk about somebody (covt. g) my position," he said. "I ll. ••vw he wants to be captain. John and I have talked a number of times about the position. 1· personally think John_ would be a good captain. But I don't know if next year is the time." 
That's because Gorman still wants to be captain next year. Besides, he thinks the 33,year­old McEnroe still has plenty to offer as a player. 
McEnroe, however, suggested strongly that he feels Gorman has already served too long. 
"'Vhen so many people would like to do it, whether it's me or not, there's a question of how long a guy should do it," McEnroe said. "I don't know if there should be a moratorium, five years or whatever, but I think that'$ something to con­sider." 
Andre Agassi, who along with Jim Courier will be playing singles beginning Friday, likes the idea of McEnroe as captaiJ}. 
"Nothing against Tom. Tom has been great with the play­ers. He's really open to learn• ing from them, understanding them and working with _them as individuals; But I think John would be great," Agassi said. 
"I, like~i~ lot of players, have been .n by John. Just watchi commitment to Davis Cup; watching his com­mitment !Q telling things like it is as opposed to what people want to hear. 
"He's there for me when I ask him,his thoughts. You don't have to se(l!:)!ld-guess. You just take t~ a, ' with lt. 1f any­body else .N. •.• you things, you 
have to wonder what part of that information is good and what part isn't." 
McEnroe is by far the most successfulDavis Cup player in 
U.S. his\nr going 41·8 in sin­gles fli~ti >·and.16-2 in dou­bles for ~ ~~Hnbined 57-10 mark t}i~t ·· p.uts him 19 victories ahead of the next­winninge1!t American, Vic 
Seixas. ;•;;.# 
The Observer 
News Department is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Business Editor 

Please submit a resume and personal statement to David Kimzey by 5 p.m. Thursday, Sept. 24. For more info, call239-5303 
The Student Activities Office Presents: 
JIM WAND Master Hypnotist 
Wednesday, September 30th at 8:00p.m. in the Library Auditorium 

Tickets--$3. 00 on sale at the LaFortune Information Desk Starting Wednesday, Sept. 23rd! 

Grab your friends and discover what they really can do!! Act Like Gorillas, Sing Like Madonna .... 

LAS VEGAS (AP) -If Jimmy Connors won't play the male chauvinist role for his mixed­gender match against Martina Navratilova, Bobby Riggs is more than happy to oblige. 
Riggs, who elevated the role to an art form in his losing effort 19 years ago to Billie Jean King, wastes no time picking the winner of Friday's million-· dollar match. 
"I predict a blowout," Riggs said Wednesday. "He's a great, great match player, a great money player. She hasn't got a clue about how tough this guy is." 
Riggs joined Connors and 
Navratilova at a news confer­
ence to hype Battle of the Sexes 
III, a best-of-3 set match Friday 
night at Caesars Palace. 
And he left no doubt his 
thoughts on. women's tennis 
haven't changed in the two 
decades since his historic 
match against King. 

"Martina's smart enough to know the top women player couldn't play the top men's player even and have a snow­ball's chance," Riggs said. "He's going to go right after her, give her no quarter. He's out for sheer blood.· 
Navratilova, of course, isn't playing Connors even. After much negotiating, she was given half the doubles' alleys for the match and Connors will 
be limited to only one serve. 
That is, if the two sides can resolve the remaining bickering over whether the outside of the line that halves the doubles' alley is in our out. 
"She's made a controversy over everything," Connors complained Wednesday. "She's talking about how the lines are painted, what kind of balls should be used. Let's just play the thing and get it over with." 
Navratilova and Connors will 
be battling for $500,000 in the 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Sports Copy Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement to Mike Scrudato by Friday Sept. 25. Contact Mike at 239-7471 for more information. 

U111ousi11c {-r Primlt' Tnlll:ijrt•rfalillll St'n•iL"t' A,·,11 l,1hk Fnr llu...in•·.,~ & ~ll·i.ll En~.~~··nwnt... 
(219) 273-1234 ?a¥ {219) 271-0442 
P.O. Box 109 • Notre Damt!, IN 46556-0lll'J 
Very Reasonable Rates: $5.00 Anywhere within city limits $25. 00 per hour Fully Equipped Vans w/Color Tv, VCR and Stereo 8 person capacity "Two vehicles for price ofone" Lower than cab rates 
match, which will be televised nationally for those willing to cough up $24.95 for the pay­per-view telecast. 
The two reportedly also re­ceived $500,000 each in ap­pearance fees. 
"The money is a nice bonus, but that's not what we're play­ing for," Navratilova said. "I'd rather give up the $500,000 and win the match.· 
For the 40-year-old Connors, 
winner of a record 109 men's singles titles, the match is an opportunity to win tennis some new fans and in the process make amends for Riggs' loss to King. 
"I've been waiting 20 years to get even," Connors said. "It's been playing on my mind for 20 years. I want to set it straight." 
Connors, though, insists there's no animosity between the two players. Just an oppor­tunity for him to conquer some new worlds. 
Two Irish athletes earn MCC honors 
Special to the Observer 
Two Notre Dame athletes earned Midwestern Collegiate Conference player of the week honors for the week of September 7-13. 
Junior Alison Lester gar­nered the honors in women's soccer after collecting three goals in two games. She notched a pair of goals in a 4-1 win over Dayton, Notre Dame's first MCC match of the season, and added another in a 4-0 win over Michigan State. Lester has five goals this season, one behind the MCC leaders and her 11 point total puts her fifth in conference scoring. 
In volleyball, sophomore 

... 
Christy Peters captured the conference award. She was named to the all-tournament team at the Purdue Mortar Board Premier Tournament, as the Irish captured second­place. She leads the MCC in kill average with 3. 7 per game and ranks fourth in digs with a 4.0 average. 

page 16 The Observer Thursday, September 24, 1992 
Gretzky: Illegal hits caused back injury SPORTS BRIEFS 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. (AP) ­Wayne Gretzky believes his rare back injury was caused by a common problem in the NHL: illegal hits. 
"Those people who say Wayne Gretzky never gets hit, I guess I'm living proof that that's a lie," Gretzky said late Tuesday after it was announced he won't be playing again for quite some time, if ever. 
"The only thing I'm worried about now is getting rid of the pain so I can walk down the street with you guys." 
Gretzky, the NHL's career scoring leader, has a herniated thoracic disk, an injury that could possibly end his career. But Dr. Robert Watkins, a spine consultant from the Kerlan­Jobe Orthopedic Group, said chances for a full recovery are good. 
The pain stems from the disk extending into the spinal canal and putting pressure on a nerve running between two ribs. 
Gretzky is one of several NHL superstars hampered by serious back injuries in recent years. Others include Mario Lemieux, Mark Messier and Mike Bossy. 
Gretzky and Los Angeles Kings owner Bruce McNall, who acquired the player from the Edmonton Oilers in 1988, said the injury is clear evidence that NHL officials must crack down on players who check from behind. 
A rule that allows referees to eject players who hit from be­hind was created last year. 
"People who play this game are getting bigger, faster and stronger," Gretzky said. "Hitting from behind is a serious situation. We can't afford to lose a Mario Lemieux or a Brett Hull." 
Or, Gretzky might have added, a Wayne Gretzky, who became 
Reduce 

AP file photo Wayne Gretzky will likely sit out this season due to a rare back injury h6 believes was caused by illegal hits. 
the NHL's career scoring leader "It's a serious problem and at age 28 -almost three years we've got to stop it," McNall ago. said. "Wayne had pain for sev­
"I hope this shows people eral months. To imagine him there is a lot of hitting from be­playing hockey with this is ab­hind," Gretzky said. "To me, solutely remarkable." this is not from one hit. It's the culmination of getting pounded Gretzky said that he experi­night after night." enced chest and rib pain in 
"That's an excellent way to get "March, April and May" last this kind of injury," Watkins season. Perhaps that was a said, alluding to being checked contributing factor as he scored from behind. a career-low 121 points, includ­
ing a career-low 31 goals, and 
Gretzky's game has always couldn't spark the team's aging been based on skating ability, stars in the playoffs. finesse and awareness, not "When I was hurting ... I had strength or size. He carries only no idea when I had gotten hit," 170 pounds on a 6-foot frame. he said. 

ND/SMC women's lacrosse is still looking for members. Questions? Call Heather at 284-5103 or Cathy at 283-4998. 
The campus 2-person golf scramble will take place on September 27. The tournament is open to all students, faculty and staff. Sign up as an individual or in pairs. Entries and entry fees due by September 23. 
NO Varsity Hockey is looking for statisticians and videotapers for the upcoming season. Anyone interested please call assist9.nt coach Jim Johnson at 239-5227. 
Irish Youth Hockey League is looking for ND students to coach or assist coaches during the upcoming hockey season. If interested, contact Scott Gosselin at 271-7 414. 
The Aikido Club will be having open practices on Mondays and Wednesdays from 6-8 p.m. in Rockne 219. Everyone is welcome. 
ND/SMC Field Hockey wiH hold practice on September 23, 28 and 30 at 9 p.m. for all interested. For more information, call Liz at 283-2670. 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will be holding a meeting tonight and will have a guest speaker. Dave Edmundson will b1l speaking on "Working Out Your Salvation" at 7 p.m. in the basement ot Farley. Everyone is welcome. 
NO Ski Team and Club will have a mandatory meeting on September 29 at 8 p.m. in Room 127 MSA. All interested in the Aspen trip are welcome. Bring checkbooks for deposits and turtlenecks. Questions? Call Chris at 273-2958. 

Happy Birthday Eamon Shea! 
Lots of love, Your Big Sis 
& 


the Basement

lm.. · 
of Pangborn 


Reuse 

Now you can come
Recycle 

with a lifetime warranty.
TI-IE POIJTE 


So many things come with a lifetime warranty. At TIAA, we want you to be one of them. 
AT SAINT JOSEPH 

That's why we created Group Life and Long-Term Disability Insurance for the educational community. 
GAOCP LOX~·I'EitlllR'\UIIUTr"d ·"'~\, __.. INIII.I.\.~L"F.I'IIOPOS.\1
:for (jraduate Students These pIans can prov1 e c~ ,~~>---------· 
~~:,ll'~\·~ ~ 
additional financial security \ ..J~.!)~~ •
and:Facu{ty 

as well as outstanding bene-\ fits like paycheck protection, ~ continued contributions toward retirement, Social Security assis-
We afso fiave furnished 

tance and expert claims service. \
e~ecutive suites 

To find out more about how \ you can give yourself the best life-\ time protection, call your benefits office 
Office Hours: 

and ask about us. At TIAA, we think
Monday-:Friday 9 a.m.-6 p.m. 

everyone should be guaranteed for life. 
Saturday 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 
.,.~:~ 
--:::;; 
..·-.:::.::
.2:::. 
fa ;::: 


TIAA Group Insurance. The Smart Relationship. 

Teachers 
730 Third Avenue 
Insurance and 
New York, NY 10017-3206 
Annuity
307 LaSaUe Jlvenue, Soutfi 13eru£ Indiana 46617 

Association 
(219) 287-2684 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it. 


--------------~----------~----------~------, 

Thursday, September 24, 1992 
Photo courtesy of Peterson family Freshman Erica Peterson (shown here with her nephew) won a silver medal at the Junior World Championships in Seoul, Korea. 
HOWARD HUGHES MEDICAL INSTITUTE PREDOCTORAL FEllOWSHIPS IN BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES 1993 COMPETITION 
Fellowships are for full-time study toward the Ph.D. or Sc.D. degree in cell biology and regulation, genetics, immunology, neuroscience, or structural biology, as well as biostatistics, epidemiology, or mathematical biology. 
FEllOWSHIP TERMS 
• Three-year initial awards, • $14,000 annual stipend 
with two-year extension • $12,700 annual cost-of­possible education allowance 
EUGmiiJTY 
• 
Less than one year of post­• If an M.D./Ph.D. student: baccalaureate graduate study not in a funded program in biology: 

• 
No citizenship requirements: college seniors 


U.S. citizens may study first year graduate students abroad; others must stt..dy in M.S., D.O., D.D.S., D.V.M. the United States students or professionals 
SCHEDULE 
• 
Application deadline: • Fellowships start: November 6, 1992 June 1993-January 1994 

• 
A wards announced: early April 1993 


FOR PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENTS, EUGmlllTY GUIDEliNES, AND APPliCATIONS Hughes Predoctoral Fellowships National Research Council Fellowship Office 2101 Constitution Avenue Washington, DC 20418 Telephone (202)334-2872 
The Howard Hughes Medical Institute welcomes applications from all qualified candidates and encourages women and members of minority groups to apply. 
The Observer 
Track 
continued from page 20 
was third. They took us into the athlete control room. I was there when they announced it. I couldn't even talk, I just cried," said Peterson. 
Peterson is a two-year mem­ber of the Canadian National Team and one of the top hur­dlers in Canada. Earlier this year, she tried out for the Barcelona Olympics finishing first in her heat and qualifying for the finals, but she caught the eighth hurdle and stumbled. She did finish the race, but the fall put her eighth in the standings. 
"I had competed against a lot (of the other runners) before at Nationals. It was exciting just to think that you're kind of close to their level," said Peterson. 
Her roommate Jennifer 
Dougherty knows that Peterson 
is closer to the top hurdlers that 
she admits. 
"She is too modest. She is a 
totally incredible runner and 
you wouldn't know unless you 
looked at her times," said 
Dougherty. 
"It's really hard to upset her. She is always in a better mood when she comes back after practice." 
The modest freshman hails from a town called The Crew's Nest Pass in the Alberta Province and it was there that she first started running just five years ago. When she was in ninth grade, Peterson joined the town's track club because it was a popular things for kids to do in their spare time. 

Peterson showed potential right away competing in the long jump, 100 meter dash and 200 meter dash. After trying out hurdles, she found that this was the event she did best in and started to focus on it. 
Peterson stuck with running for several reasons. 
"After the first year, I think I was hooked. I love running and I'm just really competitive. What drives me is that I want to win," said Peterson. 
Although she was the first member of her family to get in­volved in running, her family has been with her the whole way. Because they couldn't make the trip to Korea to watch her, her family sent her a good luck videotape of her awards­covered bedroom at home and of themselves wishing her well. Unfortunately, the tape didn't arrive until after Peterson re­turned from the meet, but it was a welcome gift nonetheless. 
"My mom cried when I told her (about the silver medal)," said Peterson. "My family is really supportive of my running. Now they're track junkies. My dad is president of the track club and my mom officiates at 
Success can be a matter of making the right connections.  
Reporting & Writing Magazine Publishing Broadcast Journalism  0 0 0  

Newspaper Management 0 The new curriculum 0 in Integrated Advertising I Marketing Communications 

Make a connection. A Medill representative will be at 
Notre Dame/St. Mary's October1 
Or call1/708/491-5228. 
Medill School of Journalism Graduate Programs Northwestern University 
PROCTER & GAMBLE 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS DIVISION 
Invites interested students to learn more about career and internship opportunities available at Procter & Gamble! 
I ­

PRESENTATION AND PIZZA 
Thursday, September 24 at 7:00PM LaFortune Student Center -Foster Room 

For Students Majoring in: Engineering, MIS, Applied Math, CAPP, MBA 
(Visit P&G at Industry Day, as well!) 
page 17 

the meets." 
Her family will also be sup­porting her as Peterson leaves Canadian coach Ritch Braun and starts her track career at Notre Dame. She will compete in both the indoor and outdoor seasons and Peterson is eager to start practicing with the team. 
''I'm interested to see what it's going to be like. I have never trained on a track before, just the road, said the freshman. 
"I love to practice. The first weekend here I hadn't run in a while and it felt so good to run, but there are days when you just don't want to practice." 
She trains every day and each practice is different with alternating days of weights, speed work, technique and in­terval training. Despite the practice, Peterson still gets butterflies before meets which isn't always a bad thing. 
"I get really nervous for every meet. Sometimes it helps because it gets the adrenaline flowing," added Peterson. 
The adrenaline from Seoul has stopped flowing and it is time for Peterson to catch up on her school work and settle into the life of a Notre Dame freshman. As a reward and a rest, she will take two weeks off from running before she starts training under Irish sprint coach John Millar. 
Volunteer. 

American Heart Association 

PASS ALONG 
VALUABLE THAN GOLD. 
LIFE. When you make a be­quest to the American Heart Association, you're 
passing along a precious legacy. The gift of life. That's because your contri­bution supports research that could save your de­scendants from America's number one killer. 
To learn more about the Planned Giving Program, call us today. It's the fll'St step in making a memory that lasts beyond a lifetime. 
&\American Heart 
~Association 
This space provided as a public service. 

... 
., 

.....---------------------------~---------------­
page 18 The Observer Thursday, September 24, 1992 
Fall season gives Notre Dame lacrosse chance to glimpse potential 

BY KEVIN JANICKI Sports Writer 
On October 3, the Notre Dame lacrosse team kicks off its first fall season in several years. After an outstanding 10-4 season last spring including a school record in wins, consecu­tive wins, and an NCAA Tour­nament bid, coach Kevin Cor­rigan is looking to take his team even higher this season against some top-notch opponents. 
Now in his fifth season at Notre Dame, Corrigan hopes to take advantage of an excellent recruiting class by exposing them to tough competition as early as possible. By playing a fall schedule, the team will try to get a head start on blending together what Corrigan believes to be the healthiest mix of young players and veterans he's had. 
The team began workouts on September 1 and the coaching staff is still in the process of picking the team. They are only practicing three times a week, and thus far, Corrigan is pleased with the newcomers as well as several returning play­ers who have shown improve­ment. 
Sophomore defenseman Mike Iorio spent the summer playing for the U.S. Under-19 national team in the World Games where he was voted All-World First Team. Senior Brian Mayglothling who holds the school's midfielder scoring record appears ready for a sue­cessful senior campaign. Cor­rigan also can be comfortable with the goalie slot. 
"We have the best goalie sit­uation we've ever had," he said. 
Three goaltenders, seniors Chris Parent and Pat Finn and sophomore Ryan Jewell all have experience as starters and are playing well enough in practice for Corrigan to believe that whoever gets the nod on opening day will deliver. 
Next weekend's game pits the 
Irish against a team of club All-• practices will help determine Stars from Philadelphia and • the team's potential heading Baltimore. Corrigan is excited into the spring. 
about playing such intense competition simply because he can sec how the team can mca­sure up. 
"We're looking for basic things at this point rather than wins or losses," he explained. 
Another great opportunity to see how well the squad can match up against the best will come on October 18 when Notre Dame will play in the Syracuse Tournament. There, the Irish will face Division I powerhouses Syracuse and Cornell as well as Hobart, win­ners of 13 of the last 14 Divi­sion III championships. 
One year after his finest sea­son with the Irish, Corrigan is confident that the team has more talent than last year. And the fall schedule will serve two purposes: first, young players will get a taste of college com­petition, and second, the team as a whole can begin coming together as a unit. These fall 


Class 
continued from page 1 0 
To the fiersome foursome of freshmen stranded at the U2 concert Friday, we want our blankets!!! 
Attractive and physically well-endowed Notre Dame student with good personality needs a date for Oct. 10 SYR. 
I will provide transportation, beverages, and hours of fun whoever answers this ad. 
This is not a joke. I really need a date. 
You can call me AI. .. at 283-2703. 
Hey Paul-here's your message! I hope you have a better day today. Your favorite fellow Dixonite, Kate. 
MARGE 
Attention! Earn $2500! Students, Greeks, Clubs Earn Free Spring Break Trip After Selling Only 8 Trips At Your School! SpringBreak 1·800-678·6386. 
SPRING BREAK '93 · SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!! . Student Travel Services is now hiring campus representatives. Ski packages also available. CALL 1·800-648-4849. 
ATIENTION BUSINESS MAJORS Ever thought about a career in advertising? Join Leo Burnett Company of Chicago at Univ. Club, THURSDAY SEPT 24 at 8pm. FREE APPLES! 
•••••••HELP!!!!!!!!!! BEAUTIFUL, BUT DESPARATE, GIRL NEEDS A RIDE HOME TO 
PHILA. AREA FOR OCT. BREAK. WILLING TO PAY GAS. TOLLS. CALL LIZ X2373 
Fay. 
Barkley vs. Godzilla .. DITKA
... 
Need a ride to Raleigh/Durham area Oct 29-Nov 1? Call Laura x4801 
Kara. DON'T WORK TOO HARD!!! Which will you remember 20 years from now--a big exam, or an awesome time with friends? 
Your big bro. 

Student Ticket Book For Sale Senior Section Caii27H264 
The Sister Chain Tonight! Club 23 
Hey Floozy and Slut, Can you reccomend a good chemistry teacher? ·Slider 
Beth Bolger: I've got ribbon, tape and some tirne. Give me a chance & I'll put a nice big bow on you . 
Teresa Testa: I just woke up, no one's here, do you want to ... GET SOMETHING TO EAT!!!! 
I have GAs to all home games-cheap!!! Call Bret at 1248. 

Notre Dame Communication & Theatre 
Cinema at the Snlte 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 , 9:45 

Center for Professional Education 
Topic: Adapting to the First Year in the Business World 
Thursday, September 24 

6:00 pm ­ CCE Auditorium  ARTHUR  
Refreshments to follow  ANDERSEN  
Dress is casual  ARTHUR ANDERSEN & Cq SC  

All Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Students Arthur Andersen presents 


AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL MEETING SUN SEPT. 27 8·9 pm MONTGOMERY THEATRE 
Brown ... normal Orange ... weird No color ... nothing Brown ... normal 
This is the story of Rolando's hair. 

Why, you may ask, do we even care?  
Yo, it's sporty's birthday ... .  Well, maybe we don't  
wuttup silky short man.. .  Maybe he'll shave again  
Maybe he won't.  
For a real man who can satisfy (and I mean  
really satisfy), call Weirup at 1248.  This is the chair where Elijah sits ...  

NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM! 
Nationally ranked IRISH CROSS COUNTRY hosts the National Catholic Invitational Burke Memorial Golf Course 
Friday Women: 4:15pm Men: 5:00pm #16 IRISH WOMEN'S 



SOCCER vs #14 Duke 
Friday 7:30pm 
Alumni Field 
Free Subway Subs Compliments ofthe Alumni Association for all fans (while supplies /Jut) 
Free admission to both events 
-a live _television broadcast from our 



-~-----~ 


59 Ancient Greek town in Italy 
60Transmit electronically 
Today 

Thursday, September 24, 1992 
SPELUNKER 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I ~AI£ GOli'-\G TO 
SC.\.IOOL. I Wl':iH 
I WAS A T\Gt.R. 
1lGI:.R'5 \X)NI NUD 
TO K~OW A.N'H\\ltiG. 
-=+=+:C-F.+.::-i 27 'Tempest" spirit 45 Cleans hides for 28 Design transfer 
tanning 47 Extended sundowns shortage 

COMING ATTRATCTIONS: 
MOVIES 
THE RUSSEL SIMMONS 
Real GeniusDEF COMEDY JAM Thurs, Sept. 24 
As seen on HBO 
Fri. Oct. 2 
Lethal Weapon 3
Stepan Center 
8:00p.m. Fri. & Sat. Sept.25 & 26 
Movies shown 8:00 & 1 0:30p.m. in Cushing Auditorium
$10.00 
Admission: $2.00 
A.Tit-.O:lN.G RUNNING ANll-\ALS ltiiJOLIJE.S A. LC)\ Of P\-\~S\0":,. 1\\t.R£5 '/aD(\1'/, GRA'llli M{O LAWS or Monot-1, NC>I m ~ENT\ot-l A.LL 1\\E 13\DLOG-i WE 1-\f\'1( 1t> KNOW. 11\t.l-1 1\\t.RE':. 1\\t. ARnST\C 
EXPRt.95\C>N CJt. II  
t-.\L, />,NO A l()T  
MCRt::.'  
65 Kind of club  
66 Rocket stage  
67lnnisfail  
68 Pelt  
69 Zulus' kin  
70 Movie pooch  
71 Tyrant  
DOWN  
1 Latin music  
2 "Waiting for  
Lefty" playwright  
3 Colonist's  
greeting to an  
Indian  
4 Trapper's activity  
5 Intense fear  
6 Brother of Moses  
7 The act of  
drinking  
8 Spill the beans  
9 Acid: Comb.  
form  
10 German city on  
the Danube  
11 Sticky stuff  33 Newscaster Huntley et al.  
12 Follower of F.D.R.  34 -to(should)  
13 Curler's mark  35 Peepshow  
21 Sinning  36 Buzz off!  
22 Boss in  37 City of NW Spain  
McKinley's day  40 Island of the  
25 Diamond fig.  Lesser Sundas  
26 Pepys's legacy  44 Ballad ending  

page 19 
JAY HOSLER 
BILL WATTERSON 

50 Custard apple 52 Icelandic literary 
works 54 0wn up ss Jamaican citrus 61 In the past 
fruits 56 Silent films' Bara 62 Legal matter 57 Guide 63 Actress Alicia 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

CAMPUS 
Thursday 
8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Film: "Real Genius." Cushing Auditorium. Sponsored by Student Union Board. 
Friday 
11 a.m. Workshop. "Border Pedagogy: Cultural Dif­ference and the Politics of Hope." Foster Room, LaFortune Student Center. Sponsored by Gender Studies Concentration and the Anthropology Department. 
12:15 p.m. Forum at the Center For Social Concerns. "Aging and Ethics: A Business and Economics Perspec­tives," Professor Ken Milani. Room 124, Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns. 
STUDENT UNION BQ.t.RD 

• 
-
• 
llftUO)O)WUHU 
ACROSS 1 Part of S.A.R. 5 Hippies' haunts 9 Anything whatever 14 Arabian gulf 15 Zelle's alias 16 Intimate actress? 17 "-Smile Be Your Umbrella" 18 Algerian port 19 Overact 20 Not homemade 23 Aiming h1gh 24 Barbary sheep 29 New Deal agcy. 30 Female lobster 32 Fen 33 Pet of Elizabeth II 36 Having a narrow slit 
38-Guo-feng, Chinese leader 39 Utmost extent 41 One of a 8-52 crew 42 U.S. power agcy. 43 Flagrant 46 Pastoral composition 48 Penn pronoun 49 French possessive 50 Atmosphere: Comb. form 51 It may have tweeters 53 Free samples 58 Battlewagon 60 Capacitance unit 64 Exec's car 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 



-_ __j 

.. 
Sports 

The Observer/John Rock Irish coach Lou Holtz said Tuesday that versatile talent Willie Clark could be lost for the 
page 20 MIKE SCRUDATO Random Thoughts 

Knicks are ready now, while Magic and Clippers build 
Tuesday's three-way trade between the New York Knicks, Los Angeles Clippers and Orlando Magic demonstrates the three different directions that each team is going in. 
The Knicks gave up Mark Jackson, 27, and two draft picks, their first­round pick next year and 1995 second­round choice. In return, they got three established NBA veterans in point guard Doc Rivers, forward Charles Smith and guard Bo Kimble. 
The Knicks are mortgaging their future on the next few years, as they traded draft picks in two other deals this year, in which they got Tony Campbell from Minnesota for a second­rounder and Rolando Blackman from Dallas for a first-round pick "in 1996. 
This indicates that the Knicks feel they are ready to knock the Bulls from the top, something they almost did last year without the outside scoring threats they now possess. 
Tuesday's deal give the Knicks yet another weapon-depth. Rivers will 

• team with Greg Anthony at the point, while Kimble will fight with Blackman, John Starks and Hubert Davis, New York's first-round draft pick for playing time at shooting guard. Smith, who is the best of the trio, can play either forward position where the Knicks already have Campbell, Charles Oakley and Scottie Pippen's favorite Knick, Anthony Mason. The 6'10" Smith can also spell Patrick Ewing at center. Despite the loss of Xavier McDaniel, the addition of Smith and Campbell give the Knicks a better front-court than the one which caused the Bulls so many problems last spring. The Clippers and Magic accomplished the opposite of what the Knicks did, they stocked themselves for the future. Though the Clippers gave up three of the players who were responsible for their first playoff appearance since moving to Los Angeles, they assured themselves of playoff berths in the future by acquiring Jackson and Stanley Roberts, the 22-year old center who was destined to backup Shaquille O'Neal in Orlando. Roberts will provide the Clippers with a big man in the middle for years to come, while Jackson will give them an experienced point guard who is four years younger than Rivers. In a few years the Knicks might have a few more championship banners hanging in Madison Square Garden and the Clippers might be a perennial playoff team, but the team to beat could be the Orlando Magic. 
The Magic already possess an 

-
impressive array of young talent in Steve Smith, Kendall Gill and this year's lottery prize, O'Neal. The trade gives the Magic two more first-round picks to bolster this lineup. 
INSIDE SPORTS 

• 
•Fall 
season begins for lacrosse see page18 

• 
Illegal hits caused Gretzky's Injury see page 16 

•McEnroe 
wants to captain Davis Cup see page 15 



Thursday, September 24, 1992 
Injuries and academics challenge Irish 
BY JIMVOGL  
Assistant Sports Editor  
In preparation for the vastly improved  
Purdue Boilermakers this Saturday, Lou  
Holtz expressed concerned about his  
players' approaching mid-terms, and  
announced several key injuries, at his  
weekly press conference Tuesday.  
The Irish enter a critical phase over  
the next three weeks in which his team  •  
historically doesn't perform well, Holtz  
stated. With the players' increased  
devotion to studies, Holtz vowed to keep  
the gameplan simple and "not add a lot  
of new things."  
"In the past, we've tried (to add some  
new plays) and the players would never  
retain it," said Holtz, who instead will  
stress execution. "We'll just try to get  
them to play on Saturday."  
It should make for a good battle with  
what Lou Holtz called the best  
Boilermakers squad he's faced.  
(Purdue's last win came against a Gerry  
Faust coached Irish squad, 35-17 in  
1985.)  
This year's Boilermakers boast the  
talents of quarterback Eric Hunter,  
flanker Ernest Calloway and tailback  
Jeff Hill along with a solid defense and  
strong leadership from second-year  
head coach Jim Coletta.  
"They're very sound in their approach  
to the game," said Holtz. "They don't  
trick or fool you, they just line up and  
play the game."  
Senior Todd Norman returns for the  
game to bolster Notre Dame's offensive  
line. Norman, who went down with a  
knee injury a week before this season's  
opener with Northwestern, gets the  
starting nod at right guard over  
sophomore Mark Zataveski. Norman played in ten games last season, starting three. Versatile talent Willie Clark, curiously  season because of a broken wrist. absent nearly the entire season, broke his wrist before the Michigan game. "In all probability, Clark will be out for  

the season," Holtz announced. 
Year-round training key to Notre Dame baseball's success 
BY MATT BOWER Sports Writer 
Throughout the last five seasons, the Notre Dame baseball squad has established itself as a national powerhouse under the leadership of head coach Pat Murphy. 
He has turned a mediocre 15-29 team into a team which has finished with forty-five or more wins in four straight seasons. 
Maintaining this record requires a year-round effort. 
"At this level, baseball is a year-round commit­ment," Murphy said. "You have fall practice, winter conditioning, spring season, and summer ball," 
Currently, the squad practices six days a week. 
"We have to evaluate the players and develop their talent," Murphy explained. 
The desire to improve upon last year's 11th place finish seems to be 
contagious  in  the  fall  
workouts.  
"Everyone  has  a  

tremendous attitude," Murphy said. "Some people say Notre Dame can't repeat, but I feel that with this team's 
Cory Mee 
attitude and hard work, we can do better." 
Murphy should have no trouble realizing his goal. lie has a strong supporting cast of players and coaches, the most no­tab I e of which is new assistant coach, Cory Mee. 
Mee graduated from Notre Dame last spring as an academic all-American and a first team all-MCC player. 
"lie was such a unique player who really used his abilities," Murphy said of his new assistant. "It is a rare exception for a player to be able to return and coach like this." 
Leading this year's squad on the field will be captain Edwin Hartwell. Hartwell has had a storybook career at Notre Dame. lie was not recruited out of high school, and walked on his freshman year. 
"He is another true 

example of what this program can do," commented Murphy. "It is amazing how he emerged from nowhere and became the leader of this squad. It is because of the Notre Dame envi­ronment. You wouldn't find this at a Miami or LSU. 
"Hartwell has a great experience base and he is well respected among the players. Most of all, he believes in the program. He has watched it overachieve for the last four years." 
Experience will definitely be a key for this year's Irish squad. 
"Last year's players were one pitch from the national championship. They know what they are capable of. They have a vision now, and every player has improved," Murphy added. 
Many have ola~ed expectations on this year's squad to repeat last year's performance, but Murphy chooses not to ac­knowledge outside opinions. "This is college athletics-we go out to have fun," he said. "We set out own expectations. We know how good we are." 
Backup right tackle Junior Bryant suffered a bruised back and could be out "a day or two or a week or two," according to Holtz. 
Frosh wins silver medal at Junior World Meet 
BY JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 

Two weeks ago, most Notre Dame freshmen were eagerly anticipating their first home football weekend. They bought "The Shirt" and learned the fight song. A chill might have gone up their spines when they walked into the stadium for the first time. 
Another student had a similar experience last week, but in a much bigger stadium and in a place far from South Bend. 
Notre Dame freshman Erica Peterson competed in the Junior World Championships last week in Seoul, South Korea and won a silver medal in the 400 meter hurdles with a time of 58.09. The 4 x 400 meter relay she was in placed seventh in the finals. 
ult was incredible," said Peterson of her trip. "f was very nervous especially for the first round. I didn't know what to expect. When I walked into the stadium (Olympic Stadium), there were so many people I felt like lt was closing in on me." 
Despite her nP.rvon<;n<>"'" P<>t<>r<;on performed well in the first round, placing first in her heat. Her time of 
58.00 made her the fastest qualifier in the finals. The second place finish made her first visit to the Junior World Championships a memorable one . 
"The most exciting moment was when I realized I was second. Another girl finished next to me so I thought I 
see TRACK/page 17 







