
VOL. XXV. NO. 47 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Clinton wins by landslid-e 

Bush years drew curtain on Cold War 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The most enduring accomplishment of George Bush's presidency may have been his role in helping end the Cold War, the ideological battle that shaped 
U.S. foreign policy for 45 years and kept the world at the brink of nuclear war. 
But voters on Tuesday re­jected Bush's plea for a second term to try to try to help both America and the world fully ad­just to the "new world order." 
Of the Bush presidency's fail­ings, one of the most remark­able was his inability to get Congress to pass his proposals for restoring vigor to the econ­omy. He blames Congress for the inaction; his critics say he didn't assert leadership. 
Possibly the most well-re­membered Bush misstep may, in the long run, be his decision in June 1990 to accept a Demo­crat-led tax increase after pledging in his 1988 speech ac­cepting the GOP presidential nomination: "Read my lips: No new taxes." 
Bush, himself, says his strong suit is foreign affairs. 
In the final weeks of his re­election campaign, Bush never missed a chance to remind people of the enduring impor­tance of ending the Cold War, during which the United States and the Soviet Union built tens of thousands of nuclear weapons -enough to blow up the world many times over. 
"I take great pride in the fact 
see BUSH I page 4 

Perot hails Clinton win, promises to stay active 
DALLAS (AP) -A jubilant but losing Ross Perot appeared before a large crowd of cheer­ing supporters late Tuesday, danced with his wife and pro­jected that Bill Clinton had won the U.S. presidential election. 
"The American people have spoken. They have chosen Governor Clinton," Perot said just minutes before CNN, NBC and CBS projected Clinton the winner, based on partial re­turns and exit polls. 
To the tune of "When the Saints Go Marching In" and "Crazy," Perot took his wife and then a daughter in his arms· as supporters applauded and chanted support for his losing presidential campaign. 
P.erot said he would use the guideline that "if it's good for the country," he and his sup­porters would back a proposal. 
"As long as we're together nationwide, you will have an enormous voice in this coun­try," the Texas billionaire said, 
Clinton handed presidency by wide electoral margin 
Bill Clinton was elected the 
• Clinton campaign I page 4 
nation's 42nd president on 
• Election section I page 9 
Tuesday in a Democratic 
• Campus turnout I page 9 
landslide that swept George Bush from office and ended 12 for our country to face the years of divided government in challenges of the end of the 
Washington. The Arkansas Cold War and the beginning of governor vowed to confront the next century," Clinton said. 
problems "too long ignored," "To restore growth to our from the economy to AIDS and country and opportunity to our the environment. people, to empower our own 
Bush wished Clinton well and people so they can take more promised a smooth transition of responsibility for their own lives."
power. "It's over," he whispered to his wife Barbara. The 46-year-old governor will Voters were renewing become the nation's third­Democratic control of Congress youngest president when he 
and said pocketbook concerns takes office Jan. 20. had mattered most as they With 76 percent of the chose a new generation of precincts reporting, it was 
leadership. Clinton with 43 percent of the Clinton, who campaigned as a vote, Bush with 38 percent and "different kind of Democrat" independent Ross Perot with 18 
and vowed an end to 
percent. 
Republican "trickle-down" The Associated Press tally economics, built his majority in showed Clinton had won 349 all regions of the country. He electoral votes and led for 29 
settled matters in Oregon, more -far more than the 270 Washington and California, needed to win the election. where he was the first 
Bush had 115 electoral votes, a Democrat to prevail since 1964. far cry from the 426 he 
He won customary compiled in 1988. Democratic strongholds, Perot ran the strongest third­captured key battlegrounds in candidate race in more than a 
Illinois, Ohio and New Jersey generation, and the Clinton­and put Vermont and Kentucky Gore team will take office after in the Democratic column for having won far less than 50 the first time in many years. percent of the vote. Savoring his triumph, he The race among Bush. his appeared with Vice President­young Democratic challenger elect Albert Gore and their 
and a maverick businessman families before a crowd of 
that absorbed a nation thousands at an outdoor rally in emerging still from a dreary Little Rock, gathered to cheer recession. the first Democrats to win a The voter surveys showed national election since Jimmy Clinton winning key voting Carter in 1976. blocks. He was matching Bush's "This election is a clarion call 
see ELECTION I page 4 


pledging to keep his volunteer organization together. 
With 40 percent of precincts reporting nationwide, Perot had 17 percent of the vote, to 44 percent for Democrat Bill Clinton and 39 percent for President Bush. 
"Are you more dedicated than ever to putting this country back to work?" Perot asked, as supporters shouted agreement. 
"We'll keep on going as long as you want to keep on going," he said. 
Perot earlier in the day had declared that Inauguration Day would find his supporters cele­brating in Washington. 
Unorthodox to the last, Perot's campaign told only a few photographers he was going to the polls -after saying previously that he had voted by absentee ballot. 
"I thought the vote was sup­posed to be private, but I guess 
see PEROT I page 4 


r--~-----------------...,---~-­
page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Lack of focus cost Bush re-election 
President Clinton. 
The awkward phrase fumbles off the lips like a word said too many times. The words are even more difficult for the conservative voter to say. 
And so it will remain until the fact sinks in that the United States is under the leadership of a -------­Democrat for the first time in 12 years. 
As delirious voters wake up today, gone is a campaign that has stretched over one and a hal arduous years, officially beginning last winter in Iowa and New Hampshire. The final week saw an upbeat Clinton faltering in the polls but promising better times, and a very un­presidential George Bush firing attacks and swinging wildly at his opponents. 
In truth, the Republican campaign never got off the ground. Voters saw a campaign that appeared more like an meandering, babbling stream than a drive for re-election. Voters kept looking for a punchline that never came. 
Not only did it appear that the president have no campaign strategy, but no real plan for the next four years either. 
Even after a somewhat bruising primary bout with conservative columnist Pat Buchanan, Bush assumed a passive presidential stance. He refused to even mention his opponent's name until August, a clear indication that he did not take the governor's run for the White House seriously. 
Mter a disastrous "family values" campaign, the Republican strategy depended strongly on the final week of campaigning, which became a bitter, personal battle. Early in the week, Bush and Quayle's repeated hammering of the trust and truth issues appeared to be successful, as Bush moved to within one percentage point o Clinton in one tracking poll. 
But the trust issue backfired as a late-week in­dictment against former Secretary of Defense Casper Weinberger revealed that the President was indeed "in the loop" of the Iran-contra scandal, contrary to earlier claims. 
Slowly, quietly, Bush began to slip in the polls until Clinton's margin was again seven points in most polls. 
For Bush, it was too late. He failed to trust the American people with his conservative message, and never effectively responded to attacks from both Clinton and Perot about the economy. 
At the end of four years in the presidency and a bruising campaign, the president seemed exhausted and somehow willing to relinquish the reins of the country to the governor from Arkansas. 
And he had a special challenge for the youth of America: "I urge you to participate in the political process. It needs your idealism, it needs your drive, it needs your conviction." 
But unfortunately, Bush's defeat means that Americans have lost a unique opportunity: a chance to allow a long-term conservative pro­gram to succeed in the United States. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The Observer Wednesday, November 4, 1992 
FORECAST 
Cool today with 40 percent chance of rain. Highs in the lower 40s. Snow flurries tomorrow with highs in upper 30s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  31  21  
Atlanta  74  49  
Bogota  73  45  
Boston  48  4t  
Cairo  86  64  
Chicago  42  36  
Cleveland  65  46  
Dallas  66  52  
Detroit  54  40  
Indianapolis  68  38  
Jerusalem  79  59  
London  54  45  
Los Angeles  66  62  
Madrid  70  41  
Minneapolis  34  32  
Moscow  34  32  
Nashville  75  42  
New York  55  49  
Paris  54  41  
Philadelphia  67  56  
Rome  66  57  
Seattle  52  38  
South Bend  50  38  
Tokyo  64  45  
Washington. D.C.  73  55  



WARM STATIONARY 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
Cheerleader's father guilty of threats 
•LEXINGTON, Ky.-A man who couldn't afford to let his daughter be a high school cheerleader pleaded guilty to sending letters threatening to kill her if she wasn't taken off the squad. Bennie Lee Doan wrote the letters as if they had been written by a disgruntled parent whose daughter did not make the cheerleading squad. The letters demand that his daughter, 15-year-old Jennie Doan, be dismissed from the Harrison County High School squad or be killed. Doan faces up to five years in prison. 
Woman kills husband on Halloween 
• ANOKA, Minn. -A woman has been charged with killing her estranged husband and his girlfriend after showing up at their home on Halloween wearing a black cape and a monster mask. Marsha Palmer was charged Monday with two counts of second-degree murder of Jeffrey Palmer and Karlene White. Friends said the Palmers were entangled in a bitter divorce. Marsha Palmer greeted police at the door and led them to the bodies. 
OF INTEREST 
•A 
memorial service for Danielle Zock will be held at 4 p.m. in Regina Chapel at Saint Mary's. 

•An 
Urban Plunge information meeting will be held at 4:30 p.m. in the Haggar Parlor at Saint Mary's. Registration forms and learning agreements will be available. Registration deadline for Urban Plunge is Friday, Nov. 6. 

•The 
Student Advisory Board to the Center for Social Concerns will hold a formation meeting tonight at 6:30p.m. in the esc lounge. 

•WVFI, 
AM 640, will feature Mr. Head, a campus band, live in the studio from 7 to 9 p.m. 

•Troop 
Notre Dame will meet at 9 p.m. in room 219 Rockne. Anyone interested in joining should attend. Dance classes and auditions will be discussed. 

•Placement 
tests in French and Spanish will be offered by the Romance Language Department Wednesday and Thursday. Students must be registered to take the tests. 


MARKET UPDATE 
INDIANA 

Policeman may have faked his death 
•AUBURN, 
Ind. -An arrest warrant has been issued for a former Indiana policeman who authorities believe may have faked his drowning to avoid sentencing for child molestation. Jerry Collins was convicted of three counts of felony child molestation and was to appear for sentencing Monday, but did not show, said assistant court reporter Sandy Cleverly. An arrest warrant was then issued, she said. Collins' wife, Susan, told authorities earlier this month that her husband tumbled from a nearly 40-foot cliff into the Sturgeon River. Police spent three days searching underwater and by air for his body, with no success. "We have serious questions about this drowning," he said. 

•Women 
United for Justice and Peace are sponsoring a hospitality luncheon Thursday Nov. 5 from 


11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. All are welcome. 
•ND 
Friends of St. Jude's Hospital will hold a meeting Thursday, Nov. 5 at 6 p.m. in the Sorin Room at LaFortune. The club is involved in helping support the hospital, where children receive free medical care. All are welcome. The meeting is mandatory for anyone interested in working the concession stand at the Penn State Game. 

•A 
basketball coach for fifth and sixth grade boys is needed for Our Lady of Hungary School in South Bend. If interested, call 289-3272 between 8 a.m. and 2 p.m. Practice can begin anytime. 

•Grace 
hall's 24-hour run will be this weekend on the fieldhouse mall. If you would like to run or work the tent, sign up in Grace's lobby. Proceeds go to the North­east Neighborhood Center. All are welcome. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
Today's Staff:  
Production:  
Melissa Cusack  Graphics:  
Cynthia Ehrhardt  Brendan Regan  
News:  Anne-Marie  
Julie Barrett  Conrado  
Kenya Johnson  
Sports:  Accent:  
Jonathan Jensen  Susan Marx  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

YESTERDAv·s TRADING November 3 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
207,808,400 -1.24 to 231.24 S&P COMPOSITE 

-2.83 to 4.19.92 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
-9.73 to 3,252.48

UNCHANGED 581 

GOLD 
-$2.40 to $338.20 oz SILVER 
-$.01 to $3.782 oz 

• 
In 1950: The United Nations revoked its sanctions against Spanish leader Francisco Franco. 

• 
In 1952: Dwight Eisenhower was elected President, defeating Democratic opponent Adlai Stevenson. 


• In 1956: Soviet troops with 1,000 tanks rolled into 
Budapest to stop an anti-communist uprising, arresting Premier lmre Nagy. 
• In 1968: Pan Am Airlines began its first helicopter service 
from New York to Newark. 
• In 1980: Ronald Reagan was elected President, defeating 
incumbent Jimmy Carter. 
--~---~--------~---------~---~~--~-------~---­


Wednesday, November 4, 1992 
The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 

Decisions, Decisions 
Saint Mary's senior Hollye Harrington of Regina Hall exercises her right to vote at the Augusta Hall voting station. 
The Observer 

HPC: Homeless luncheon announced at meeting 
By BEVIN KOVALIK News Writer 
The Center For The Homeless will sponsor its second annual Christmas luncheon fundraiser on December 2, volunteer John Whelan told the Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) yesterday. 
Lou Holtz will be the keynote speaker and Deborah Hurt, a woman who once lived at the shelter, will read poetry she has written to express her pain, according to Whelan. 
"This luncheon is both a ben­eficial fundraiser and an oppor­tunity to bring Notre Dame, the homeless and the people of South Bend together as a community," he said. 
The fundraiser is $30 a seat or $240 for a table of eight. "We encourage everyone to make a donation to help the shelter," Whelan said. 
An Extern Program which pairs ND students with alumni sponsors who have similar ed­ucation and career goals is scheduled for the week of spring break, according to 
Knott Hall president Sara Skalicky. 
"The Extern Program is dif­ferent from an internship be­cause the students gain experi­ence in their fields of interest, but do not receive payment," she said. 
The Student Alumni Relations Group (SARG) will have a meet­ing November 19 at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame room of LaFortune to discuss the pro­gram, Skalicky added. 
In other business, entries for the Iceberg Debate teams is December 10, said Chairperson Amy Usterman. 
The deadline for the USC trip is November 6, according to Joe Cassidy, director of Student Affairs. "We will be staying in Huntington Beach right on the water, so those of you who wish to escape the South Bend win­ter weather better sign up," he said. 
Weekend Wheels now in­cludes Senior Bar; the buses run every forty minutes from 11 
p.m. to 3 a.m., said Maureen Connelly of Knott HalL 
Panel: Bigger minority role needed on college campuses 
page 3 

where more than 230 of the 1,000 students spent the .summer doing public sl:rf\li · ... k. And 55 at last . 5:00 graduates have go,:u;; into public interest law. 
The rl:la$9ns are diver~W. 


~~why Are You At A Chri.stian University?" 
a discussion with George Marsden, ND History Professor 
1"hursday, N ovmnber 5 7:00 p.1n. Siegfried Chapel 

Sponsored by: lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship and Campus Prayer Groups 

Northwestern College ofChiropractic 
is accepting applications for its 1993 entering classes. Qanuary, May and September) 
General requirements at time ofentry include: 

• 
Approx.. 2-3 years ofcollege in a life or health science degree program. 

• 
A G.P.A. of2.5 or above. 

• 
A personal interest in a career as a primary care physician. 


Northwestern offers: 

• 
A professional school of 500 students with student faculty ratio of 12:1. 

• 
Aspacious 25 acre campus in suburban Minneapolis. 

• 
Full accreditation by North Central Association ofColleges and Schools and the Council on Chiropractic Education. 


Call: 1-800-888-4777 or Write: Director ofAdmissions 2501 West Eighty-Fourth Street • Minneapolis, MN 55431-1599 
AMHERST, Mass. (AP) -A federal civil rights panel on Tuesday called for more minor­ity recruitment and multi-cul­tural studies at the University of Massachusetts, which is work­ing to ease racial tension on campus. 
"Despite evident progress, a need obviously exists for ad­ministrators, students, and faculty to continue to listen to, and work with, each other so that by mid-decade tensions will have been reduced -per­haps to the vanishing point by the dawn of the 21st century," said its chairwoman, Dorothy S. Jones. 
The 13-member Mas­sachusetts Advisory Committee to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, an independent federal agency, is to release a report Nov. 9 on a wave of unrest at the school. Officials released details of the report Tuesday. 
It calls for boosting the num­ber of minority students with more federal scholarships and financial aid, as well as heavier student involvement in shaping a culturally diverse curriculum. 
It also says campus police are not fully trained to deal with bigotry and sometimes con­tribute to the problem. 
Minority students and faculty made similar complaints at the Amherst campus in September and October. 
Uninsured more likely to suffer negligence 
CHICAGO (AP) -Uninsured hospital patients suffer negli~ gent medical injuries more than twice as often as insured patients, according to one of the largest and most compre­hensive studies of its type. 
One possible reason is that uninsured people tend to lack regular medical care and to take regular-care problems to emergency rooms, where treatment is accelerated and more prone to mistakes, re­searchers said. 
Also, hospitals may be reluc­tant to admit uninsured pa­tients, turning them away de-

THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
presents 
The Hibernian Lecture 
Faction Fights: Another Look at the Irish in the American West 
Professor David M. Emmons University of Montana 
Thursday, November 5, 1992 
4:15p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge University of Notre Dame 
spite serious health problems, the researchers said in Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical Association .. 
The study is the first to show that inferior treatment is di­rectly linked to insurance sta­tus, regardless of race, gender, patient income or type of hospi­tal, said the principal author, Dr. Helen Burstin of Harvard Medical School. 
The researchers analyzed 30,195 patient records from 1984 at 51 hospitals in urban, suburban and rural New York state. 
The team found 1,278 injuries caused by medical treatment, including 306 caused by negligence, the failure to meet expected standards of care. 
The uninsured were 2.1 times more likely than insured patients to suffer negligent medical injuries. In hospital emergency rooms, they were 
5.2 times more likely to suffer negligent injuries than insured patients. 
The researchers cited a woman with abdominal pain who went to an emergency room and was given a preg­nancy test. It came back posi­tive but no one ever checked it. 

-~~----~----~ ------­
page 4 The Observer Wedn,esday, November 4, 1992 
"Comeback kid'' Clinton had rocky campaign path 

WASHINGTON (AP) -More often than not, the "comeback kid" was hoarse, mostly from trying to talk his way across another campaign crossroad. 
From the character con­frontations in New Hampshire, to one last primary storm in New York, through a Big Apple convention and three crucial debates, it seemed Clinton was always fighting a failing voice when his campaign needed it most. 
He was the pre-season fa­vorite, the smooth-talking, im­pressive Southerner who came to recession-stunned New Hampshire with his favorite recipe for success -specifics. He aimed his economic plan squarely at the middle class that had defected from the Democrats in the 1980s. 
Then came Jan. 27. 
Gennifer Flowers held a na­tionally televised news confer­ence to allege a 12-year-affair with the Arkansas governor. 
Clinton went on CBS' "60 Minutes," his wife, Hillary, at his side, to acknowledge past problems in his marriage but deny Flowers' allegations. 
Then another controversy struck: his maneuvering to avoid the Vietnam draft. He complained all he was asked 
~· 

. . Photo courtesy of Clinton/Gore '92 
Bill Clinton and AI G?re stole the presidential office from George Bush 
and Dan Oualye dunng last night's election. Clinton rounded up about 
43 percent of popular votes, while Bush held onto 38 percent and 
Perot had 18 percent. 

about was "a woman I didn't rivals said it, each fell. , sleep with and a draft I didn't In one week before New York's dodge." primary, Clinton had a shouting 
New Hampshire gave him match with an AIDS protester, second place, enough to sur­admitted trying marijuana a vive, and two weeks later Ge­"time or two" in college, but in orgia came through with a first. a now-famous line, "didn't 
So it went throughout the inhale," and sparred with Phil primary season. He kept win­Donahue, who wanted to talk ning, while those around him about Gennifer Flowers. said he couldn't win. Each of his Hecklers were everywhere. 
Clinton chose a favorite tactic: Go on the offense, and change the subject. He delivered a major speech calling for aid to the former Soviet Republics; President Bush rushed out his own plan to counter. 
Clinton responded but never gave a step-by-step accounting of his draft status; some an­swers appeared to contradict others, some questions were never answered. Bush would be urging Clinton to "level with the American people" to the campaign's end. 
After New York, it was over. Jerry Brown would fight to the July Democratic convention, but Clinton began running against Bush. 
Then, suddenly, came Ross Perot. 
The Texas billionaire's can-do talk overshadowed Clinton before he could answer the doubts of a bruising primary season. At his moment of tri­umph, clinching the Democratic nomination June 2, Clinton was third in the polls. 
Clinton searched everywhere for media exposure. He played saxophone on "The Arsenio Hall Show," one of many forums Clinton would use to target young voters; he bought 
network time for town-hall meetings. 
He rewrote his economie plan into a book: "Putting People First." While Bush and Perot bickered over alleged Republican dirty tricks, Clinton promised jobs, jobs and jobs. Just before his convention, he crept into a dead heat. 
His choice of Tennessee Sen. AI Gore raised eyebrows. Why twin Southerners? But voters approved. Clinton ticked up a bit more in the polls. 
Then the dam broke. 
Perot quit the very day Clinton accepted the nomination. He was suddenly a front-runner again. This time, no modifiers suggested an imminent fall. 
Running against a president he painted as out of touch, Clinton wanted a down-to-earth campaign. What started as a post-convention gimmick be­came his trademark: cam­paigning by bus, with Gore at his side. 
Again and again, Bush tried to steer the debate to character and trust; Clinton tried to push it back to more hospitable turf. From beginning to end, hi' fol­lowed the simple motto hanging at his campaign headquarters: "The economy, stupid." 
Election 
continued from page 1 
popular vote in the South. He was out-drawing both Bush and independent Ross Perot among women, independents, the young, the elderly and those who didn't vote in 1988. 
And he was pulling back more than half of his party's long-lost Reagan Democrats -the ethnic, blue-collar, rustbelt voters who had helped elect 

Republican presidents since 1980. 
When Vice President Dan Quayle congratulated Clinton at his Indiana rally, some in the crowd booed. But Quayle help up his hand and said of Clinton, "If he runs the country as well as he ran this campaign, we'll be all right." 
Bush gracefully called it the "majesty of democracy." Curtis Gans, an expert on voter turnout, said at least 100 million Americans had cast their ballots, eclipsing the previous high of 92.6 million set in 1984 and producing the first reversal in a 32-year decline in voter turnout. 
Bush, who had sharply attacked Clinton during the campaign, conveyed his congratulations by telephone, and then, made a televised concession. He pledged a "smooth transition of power." 
"I wish him well in the White House. Regardless of our differences, all Americans share the same purpose," he said. 
Perot conceded in Dallas, where he said, "the people have spoken," and offered his congratulations. 
Clinton's victories included Arkansas; California; Colorado; Connecticut; Delaware; Hawaii; Illinois; Iowa, Kentucky; Louisiana; Maine; Maryland; Massachusetts; Michigan; Minnesota; Missouri; Montana; New Je.rsey; New Mexico; New York; Ohio; Oregon; Pennsylvania; Rhode Island; Tennessee; Vermont, Washington; Wisconsin, West Virginia, and District of Columbia.. 
Bush won in Alabama; Idaho; Indiana; Kan!jas; Mississippi; Nebraska; North Dakota; Oklahoma; .South Carolina, Texas, Utal;". Virginia and Wyoming. He led narrowly in Florida. 
Perot 
continued from page 1 
nothing is anymore," Perot said after casting his ballot at the Walnut Hills Recreation Center. He was accompanied by his daughters Katherine and Suzanne. 
He chatted with voters and their children and stuck his head in the door of an aerobics class, declining an invitation to 
James Stockdale 

join the women wearing span­dex leotards. cred Heart' Catholic Church 
Perot's running mate, James near his home in Coronado, Stockdale, voted a few minutes Calif. Stockdale was traveling to after the polls opened at the Sa-Dallas to join Perot at an elec-
Bush 
continued from page 1 
that the young kids go to bed at night without the same fear of nuclear war that their parents had. That is a major accom­plishment," Bush told a cam­paign rally in suburban Detroit last month. 
Bush could take little credit for the fall of the Berlin Wall on Nov. 9, 1989, but he stayed en­gaged with Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev during the trying times that followed, including the frightening but failed coup in Moscow in Au­gust 1991. 
Just before the coup, Bush and Gorbachev held a summit meeting in Washington and signed the Strategic Arms Re­duction Treaty to cut nuclear arms by one-third. The nego­tiations were done mostly dur­ing Ronald Reagan's presi­dency, but Bush initiated fol­low-up talks that culminated this year in an agreement ­not yet fully implemented -to make cuts in nuclear arms. 

The president also counts a,mong his accomplishments his leadership in organizing an coalition to defeat Iraq in the Persian Gulf War. He contends the victory restored American pride in its military strength and also cleared the way for the first direct Israeli-Arab peace negotiations. 
Asked to name his biggest accomplishments, Bush mentioned the Clean Air Act of 1990, the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990, his record on judicial appointments and his setting of national education goals. 
tion night party. candidates. As recently as election eve, He ran in a year when anti­
Perot had predicted he would sweep all 50 states. 
Branded a bearer of "nutty" ideas by President Bush and delusional by White Bouse spokesman Marlin Fitzwater for his charges of Republican dirty tricks, Perot turned his opponents' barbs into a joke as he concluded his campaign. 
Conventional wisdom among political analysts has it that third-party candidates lose support as voters 'get to the polling booth. But Perot's can­didacy didn't necessarily fit the historical pattern of third-party incumbent anger was at a high pitch and unlike other third­party candidates was able to spend nearly $60 million of his own money to buy network TV time to spread his gospel of a balanced budget and fiscal austerity. 
Perot's performance in debates helped push his sup­port to nearly 20 percent in polls last month. But the surge ended when he made charges that he was forced from the race in July because Republican operatives planned to smear one of his daughters. 

NOTRE DAME 
vs. SOUTHERN CAL AIR ONLY 
or COMPLETE PACKAGES 
with air from South Bend, hotel, and game tickets. 
271 ..4880 
~travelmore 
~Carlson Travel Netwo(k 



Fri.-Sat., Nov. 13-14,8 p.m.
Thursday, Nov. 5, 7:30p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Sun., Nov. IS, 7:30p.m., The Little Theatre Saint Mary's Department of Communication, Dance & Theatre and Department of Music presents 
An Evening of 
presentation 


Tickets $6/$5, Students $3 

Tickets for events on sale at the Saint Mary's l!l---­box office. located In O'Laughlln Auditorium. SaintMary's Colle~ Information and charge card orders: 219/284-4626. NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 



Wednesday, November 4, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Appeals court rejects gag rule on abortion 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The vated by politics. Bush administration may not Left unclear after Tuesday's enforce a rule restricting fed­ruling is whether the adminis­erally funded family planning tration could enforce the clinics from counseling patients broader gag rule, barring even about abortion, a federal ap­doctors from discussing abor­peals court ruled Tuesday. tion. 
A three-judge panel of the U.S. "We're examining our op­Circuit Court of Appeals here tions," said Susan Zagame, a said the revised gag rule, lawyer with the Department of permitting only doctors at the Health and Human Services. clinics to discuss abortion with She declined further comment. patients, was adopted illegally. 
The Department of Health and The gag rule would affect Human Services adopted the some 4,000 clinics that serve modified rule without giving the about 3.7 million women a year. public adequate opportunity to challenge it, the appeals court Jubilant abortion rights ad­said. vocates said Tuesday's ruling 
The agency changed the 1988 means that if Bush is defeated rule at the direction of for re-election by Democrat Bill
The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 

President Bush to exempt doc­Clinton, the so-called gag rule is 
Weird Science 
tors from the gag rule in what dead, since a lame-duck 
Saint Mary's freshman Christa Brisken of Le Mans Hall measures closely as she researches calorimetry 
administration critics said was administration would not have 
during chemistry lab. 
a fraudulent compromise moti-time tore-implement it. 
Survey: "Old boy network" Commission says women should not hinders working women be allowed to serve in ground combat 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Women the enemy, like destroyers, retain and codify their prohibi­LONDON (AP)-The "old boy lack of child care. Of those with 
in the military should be frigates and aircraft carriers. tion of women on air combatnetwork" remains the single children, 21 percent said they 
allowed to serve on some That vote came after an ap­missions in view of thebiggest obstacle to the had trouble working standard 
warships but continue to be peal from the commission's "potential consequences of as­advancement of women in the office hours. 
barred both from ground chairman, retired Gen. Robert signing women to combat posi­workplace, according to a sur­"Men are the prime barrier to 
women in management. De­fighting and combat missions in Herres that the panel not to to­tions."
vey of management attitudes 
Air Force and Navy aircraft, a tally accept the status quo. The proposal was made by Air 
toward women in Britain. spite some progress, old-fash­presidential commission rec­"A great number of people will Force Reserve Sgt. Sarah F.
Women ranked "men's clubs," ioned sexist attitudes are still ommended Tuesday. not believe we credibly White, who deplored that there
in which men help each other common and represent a real, The 15-member commission considered these issues" with­"are women willing to kill or be
behind the scenes to get the not imagined barrier to the on the assignment of women in out some concession to chang­killed to promote equal oppor­
best jobs, as a greater barrier progress of women," Institute 
the armed forces strongly sup­ing times, the former vice tunity."
to career development than Director-General Roger Young ported retaining the ban on chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Other opponents spoke oflack of child care and inflexible said. 
land combat but defied expecta­Staff told the President Bush­dangers to the national security working hours, the survey said. Survey researchers also said tions in its 8-7 vote to keep the appointed group. if women pilots are capturedThe Institute of Management's they found "widespread preju­current policy on air missions. The votes on air and sea and the possible negative ef­survey, released Monday, said dice among male managers The panel voted 8-6 with one combat came· in the afternoon, fects of women on the cohesion43 percent of women said they against their women col­
suffered at work because of leagues," and that women who abstention to repeal existing following the return of four of fighter pilot units. laws and modify service policies members who walked out of the 
male networks, and 9 percent have become managers 
said they suffered because of "appear to have done so at on women serving on morning session to stress their The panel earlier voted 8-2 

IJ 
Gladieux TRAVEL 
Top Ground Gainer ci '68 Has Gone To The Air 

11.-•b Gladieux 
234.6636 

combatant vessels. They rec­view that there should be no that women should be excluded 
considerable personal cost." ommended retaining the cur­expanded role for women in the from direct land combat units.
While 92 percent of male rent ban on women aboard military. A fifth man with However, it added that service
managers were married and 86 

submarines and amphibious similar views boycotted the secretaries should recommend
percent had children, 3 3 vessels but allowing them to ·morning meeting. to Congress what units and po­
percent of female managers serve for the first time to serve The recommendation said the sitions should fall under land
were unmarried and half had on fighting ships that seek out Air Force and Navy should combat exclusion. 
children, it said. 

Breast implants resume under supervision 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Op­they agree to participate in the have a better idea of how many erations to give women silicone studies. Mentor is the only women are signing up," he said. gel breast implants are resum­company to gain FDA approval The implants had been on the ing, but the patients will be to conduct the studies. market for more than 30 years monitored for years to see if the Condon, speaking by tele­when the FDA called for a devices cause health problems. phone from company head­moratorium on the surgery Some 500 surgeons already quarters in Santa Barbara, until the safety of the devices have signed up to take part in Calif., said Monday that some could be determined. The clinical studies of the implants, women who had an "ttrgent agency had received complaints said Dennis Condon, a need" have already had the that silicone leaking from the spokesman for Mentor Corp., a implants installed. He said he implants caused women health manufacturer of the implants. did not have figures on how problems, including damage to 
Under rules established by the many operations have been the immune system and cancer. Food and Drug Administration, conducted overall since the im­the implants will be available to plants became available again. Also on Monday, the company women only on the condition "In another six months we'll that pioneered development 
Happy 21st Birthday, Mike 
{A/K/A Beav) 
Love and best wishes, 
Dad, Mom, Kip, Bubba and Bell 
and was the major producer of the implants disclosed that some of its manufacturing records had been altered. 
Dow Corning Corp. said the changes in the company records did not represent a health risk. 
Former Attorney General Griffin Bell, who was hired by the company to conduct an in­ternal investigation of its sili­cone-gel operations, discovered the alterations and recom­mended that Dow Corning tell the FDA about the violation of company policy. The changes involved substituting original charts recording oven temper­atures with replacement charts. 
The Observer 

page 6 Wednesday, November 4,1992 
A 

7.t~-4 ,6--.a_~-; ~-'-~-5~-§-~-§~:~,5§5=.._ 

/ .. . ,.. •. 1..-J.. ----·-----• ­
1 ... : -~-~="""---.=-~ -· -=--~~-.1111111111~
.. .. -,. ~ ... ~---., -....~J---. . -~ 
~........, -.---, _.. ... ., .... _.....--....... ,,_ ~-..a....~ ....
--------.. --..,. --·--· .. ,._ 
-------& ·-\1 & ·~-~-• I ­
--· -_.. -.-----.. . ---. . ---­
-----...... -~ _ --ll--------------~~...--­
--·-­
.._ /---/1--I ------~~§~
' ... ---­
..... 

Investment Banking Opportunities at First Boston 
First Boston, a global investment banking firm headquartered in New York, will be recruiting Notre Dame graduates for its fmancial analyst program. This two-year program offers individuals a unique opportunity to gain experience in the investment banking industry. Individuals with all academic backgrounds are encouraged to join our Firm. Positions are available in the Investment Banking Department in New York and in various Regional Offices. 
All students are cordially invited to join First Boston representatives for an introduction to the firm and the analyst program on: 
Wednesday, November 4, 1992 Foster Room La Fortune Student Center 7:00p.m. 
Interview date: 
January 28, 1993 
For further information and inquiries, please feel free to contact: 
Greg Dingens Investment Banking (312) 750-3071 
-­~ 

~WI
....._ . 
._ --~ 
~.. 11
A FIRST BosTON 
W I
-=-a member of the CS First Boston Group 

Wednesday, November 4, 1992 The Observer page 7 
Nigerian jets bomb American plantation 
MONROVIA, Liberia (AP) -tens, and we are still trying to Nigerian jets in a multinational get to those areas but there is force defending Monrovia still just too much fighting," Dr. bombed the Firestone rubber Ruth Tshabalala of Swaziland plantation, a rebel spokesman told reporters. She said a and relief sources said Tuesday. cholera outbreak was feared Military sources said rebel dueto rotting bodies and a wa­leader Charles Taylor was ter supply cutoff caused by storing munitions at the Amer­fighting. ican-managed plantation. Dr. Johan Heffinck of 
Rebel radio claimed 200 peo­Medecins Sans Frontieres' Bel­ple died in Monday's raids gian branch said: "It's abso­around Harbel, a Firestone lutely impossible to say how company town just east of the many people have been killed. capital. The manager's cook, We don't know because we reached by phone at the planta­can't get into those areas." tion, said 38 people were killed; Medecin Sans Frontieres­a rebel spokesman said 125 Belgian· said they were trying to people had died but it was not fly in a plane Tuesday with possible to reconcile the fig­medical and sanitation workers ures. plus 20 tons of medication and 
About 25 Americans work at equipment but it went to Abid­the plantation but communica­jan instead because the crew tions have been so crippled by refused to fly into Monrovia. the war and information re­mains so sketchy that it was not Relief sources with the agency known if any were among the said rebel leader Taylor sent a casualties. fax saying he considers all 
Up to 3,000 people, mainly planes coming into Spriggs civilians, may have died since Payne airfield in Monrovia to be the siege of Monrovia began enemy aircraft that will be shot anew on Oct. 15. Most of their down. bodies litter the suburbs where fighting continues, the World Many of the casualties are Health Organization director floating in swamps or being said Tuesday. buried in shallow graves, with 
"We have reports of people limbs sticking out, Dr. Tsha­who have died in dozens and in balala said. 


The Observer/Kathy Daly 

A sure shot 
Junior .Shan.nah Duddy tries to enjoy herself as she recieves a flu shot to prepare her health for the upcom1ng w~nter. Free flu shots are being given today and tomorrow from 10 a.m.-6 p.m. at Hesburgh Library and Lafortune Student Center. 
Former premier of Bulgaria sent to prison Cambodia asks U.N. 
SOFIA, Bulgaria (AP) -Bul­and a co-defendant, former ousted in a party coup. garia's last Communist premier Economics Minister Stoyan Atanasov and Ovcharov were to cancel disarmament was found guilty Tuesday of Ovcharov, were victims of a po­found guilty of misusing a char­giving supporters $8,400 in litical trial. Ovcharov, 50, also ity fund for orphans by giving PHNOM PENH, Cambodia (AP) tiona! Council so the other fac­state funds that were supposed was convicted Tuesday and the money to 42 orphans of -Cambodia said Tuesday that tions can proceed with prepara­to go to needy orphans. He was sentenced to nine years im­partisans killed fighting with U.N. peacekeepers should scrub tions for elections next May. sentenced to 10 years in prison. prisonment. the Bulgarian resistance the operation to disarm fighters The council, comprising leaders 
Georgi Atanasov, 59, has They were the latest in a against the Nazis during World and instead help government of the four armed Cambodian maintained his innocence since string of former officials sen­War II. These people were troops defend against the threat factions, works with the U.N. his arrest in April on embez­tenced to prison for economic middle-age or older when they of a Khmer Rouge offensive. peacekeepers in guiding the zlement charges. He said he crimes committed during the received the money. Children of U.N. officials have blamed the country before the elections. would appeal the Supreme Communist era. They were ac­former partisans were highly Khmer Rouge in recent weeks U.N. officials and France and 
Court's decision. cused of embezzling the money privileged and well cared for for several serious truce Indonesia will make a last-ditch 
Atanasov has charged that he from 1986 to 1989, while under the Communist regime. violations. The government says effort at talks this weekend in Atanasov headed the last gov­the highly secretive Communist Beijing to prod the Khmer ernment under Communist The recipients of the money, group is planning an offensive. Rouge back into the peace pro­leader Todor Zhivkov. who used it to buy housing, The Khmer Rouge denies the cess.
CRUISE JOBS 
charge, but has refused to dis­Khieu's proposals would ef­
Students Needed! paid it back to the government arm any of its 28,000 guerrillas. fectively overturn the peace ac­
Earn$2,000+/monthworkingforcruiseshipsor Zhivkov, 81, was found guilty during the trial. That was an tour companies. Holiday, Summer, and Full-in September of embezzling apparent effort to reduce the Khieu Kanharith, adviser to cord three guerrilla factions Tune employment available. For your '92/'93 some $85,000 and sentenced to severity of sentence, which un­Premier Hun Sen, said the and the Vietnamese-installed
employment program call: 
Cn~ise Employment Services seven years in prison. He ruled der Bulgarian law could have Khmer Rouge should be ex­government signed last year to 6 
pelled from the Supreme Na-end nearly 13 years of war. 
p;;;;~(2D6:)~34-~04~6~S~Ex~t.~c~s~584~iiiiiiiiiil~f~o~r..;:3~5~y~e~a~r~s~b~e~f~o~r=e~b~e~in~gl been up to 20 years. 
Jl~ker CPA Review Course Invites you to attend a presentation on 
"How to prepare for the CPA Exam" 

ednesday, November 4th, 1992 
LaFortune Center-Montgomery Theatre 
5:00p.m. 
Pizza and Pop will be served 
Drawing for a $50 Gift Certificate 
from Notre Dame Book Store 
for further info., caD: 
277-43&& 

Yugoslav premier survives confiden.ce vote 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) cused by many in the interna­by Milosevic's Socialists ­-Premier Milan Panic barely tional community of working former Communists -and al­survived a no-confidence vote behind the scenes to foster na­lied nationalists. Tuesday, foiling an attempt by tionalist warfare by ethnic The upper Chamber of Re­archrival Serbian President Serbs in Bosnia and Croatia. publics, however, is divided Slobodan Milosevic to oust him. The vote strengthened the equally between deputies from 
Panic, a moderate, has pushed position of Panic and his ally, Serbia and Montenegro, the for concessions by Serbs to end Yugoslav President Dobrica only republics remaining in the fighting in the republics of Cosic, as Serbia prepared for Yugoslavia. Montenegro sup­Croatia and Bosnia­Dec. 20 elections, in which ports Panic, who was appointed Herzegovina, which split from Milosevic is up for re-election. premier in July. the Serb-dominated Yugoslav Panic, a Serbian-born Cali­federation. fornia millionaire, won the vote Panic has gained broad sup­
He has been locked in a power in the upper house of the fed­port among Yugoslavs tired of struggle with Milosevic, a eral Parliament 18-17, a day warfare and the U.N.-imposed former Communist who is ac-after being roundly defeated in economic sanctions. At least 
I 
GREEI<S & CLUBS 
RAISE A COOL 
51000 
IN JUST ONE WEEKI 

PLUS $1000 FOR THE 
MEMBER WHO CALLS! 
No obligation. No cost. You also get a FREE HEADPHONE RADIO just fur calling 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 
the lower house. It would have 24,000 people have died in the taken 21 votes to remove him ethnic warfare in Bosnia and from office. Croatia. 
"Democracy is working," Panic told The Associated Panic has pushed Milosevic's Press. Socialists and their allies for 
Deputy Premier Oskar Kovac concessions aimed at getting said Panic's government will the United Nations to lift the continue to try to seek peace sanctions it imposed to punish accords with the governments Yugoslavia for its role in of Croatia and Bosnia. Bosnia's war. He has also made The lower Citizens Chamber, conciliatory moves in Serbia's which voted 93-24 against restive Kosovo province, where Panic on Monday, is dominated ethnic Albanians are a majority. 
Viewpoint 
page 8 
The Observer 


P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Courage means acting on convictions 
Dear Editor, 
In late September, 1943, a Spitfire went down in the Bay ofBiscay during a raid on Ger­man submarine bases in France. The pilot's body was lost at sea. That was my father and it was eight months before I would be born. He left behind a grieving twenty-one-year-old widow, an unborn child, disbe­lieving parents and siblings, and mourning friends. 
During the first year of my life, bombs rained down on us in London in Hitler's last at­tempt to force England to sur­render. When my mother and aunts and uncles talk about that time, they speak of blackouts, rationing, air raid shelters, and frequent news about the deaths of friends and relatives. 
My father, a Philadelphian, was not drafted. He disagreed with his country's isolationist policy in 1939 and joined the Royal Canadian Air Force so that he, if not his country, could enter the war. His logbook, which I inherited, lists nearly numberless missions in a hand that is to me both strange and oddly familiar. My father, by all accounts, was a hero. 

But my story of war does not end with my father. Two decades later, I came of age during the Vietnam conflict. I had some friends who joined up, some who were drafted, and some who died in Vietnam. I also had some friends who protested the war and did all they could to avoid it: some went to Canada, others to graduate school, some joined the National Guard or the Coast Guard, some even got married during the time that married men were deferred. 
My history of war and my father's death did not privilege me then, nor does it now, in judging these actions. Among all these friends, both those who went to Vietnam and those who protested the war, there are heroes. I, of course, was exempt from making any hard decisions because of my sex. 
But I thought about what I would have done: I would have done nearly anything not to go. I believed then, and I do now, that the conflict in Vietnam was fought for the wrong reasons, in the wrong place, by the wrong people. I protested the war because I believed, and I still believe, that it is our duty as 

DOONESBURY 
CAN'T&U&Ve QI0 5l/C/(lA/lUI& OTH&RJJNT 
WON... 

Baseball isn't perfect, but game is still alive 
citizens to call our country to conscience. 
We are called not to pledge blind and mindless loyalty to our government but to struggle with it to force it and us to be true to our noblest selves. 
It took me forty years, but a few years ago I finally went, at my husband's urging, to look at the Bay of Biscay -my father's burial place. I stood with my feet in the water and imagined a conversation with my father. "Was I wrong to protest the war?" I asked. "Did I betray your memory?" 
"What I hope I left you," he replied, "is not a foolish belief that war is necessarily good or noble. I fought in a war in which I believed. In fact I dis­agreed with my government. My joining the RCAF was a protest against a misguided policy. Just as you protested what you believed misguided. You thought things through, you acted on your convictions. That is true courage. You are indeed your father's daughter." 
I write on Election Eve and motivated by Jamie O'Brien's moving letter about his uncle. Bill Clinton's unwillingness to go to Vietnam is not a counter­point to O'Brien's uncle's hero­ism nor my father's. 
It was a different choice, a different time, a different war. A Commander-in-Chief may lead us into war; he also may decided not to go to war. Both are legitimate and courageous choices determined by the con­text. Perhaps it falls to my_ generation better to articulate the difference. 
Theresa Godwin Phelps Professor of Law Dear Editor: 
Jim Vogl's Chalk Talk column of 2 Nov., 1992 was a terrific installment in the ongoing series of "Let Me Tell You How Rotten America Really Is" arti­cles. 
Hey, since just about every­thing else is falling apart, it was, for the sake of consistency, good of Mr. Vogl to show that baseball is not exempt. No sir. Heck, if America is slipping over the abyss, its game might as well go too. 
Seriously, it's not that bad. Baseball, that is. Sure, the Japanese can do it faster and cheaper, but I still think the game as played on this side of the Pacific is not over. This is not to say perfect. 
When Faye Vincent was forced out, I grimaced. The or­ganization of baseball needs to be looked at. You know, get under the hood and get to work stuff. Maybe Perot for Com­mish? 
But the game is still there. To bemoan the demise of baseball because of a Deion Sanders temper tantrum is premature. True, "in America, egotistical baseball players don't always celebrate wholeheartedly." I doubt egotistical players of any sport celebrate wholeheartedly in any country. 
But the wholehearted players sure do. Did you see Dave Win­field's face when the Blue Jays won? His grey stubble said over forty, but his eyes cheered nine. 
Japan is half a world away. Its culture and customs are vastly different from ours. They can tie. We sit through twenty innings to get the "W" Or "L". When they get hit by a pitch, they bow. All the time? And not all Americans "are taught to hate their opponents and charge the mound if pitched in­side." 
Did you ever see Don Baylor at the plate? He would just ab­sorb the ball into his ham-sized shoulder and trot down to first base. No complaints. He was a class act. 
Don't burn down the tree be­cause you find a few rotten ap­ples, Mr. Vogl. 
Baseball is not a perfect mi­crocosm for the nation. Either nation. Especially not for America. But if it has to be, I'll take the game of Lou Gehrig and Winfield instead of Sanders and Darryl Strawberry any day. 
Jonathan M. Walsh Morrissey Manor Nov. 2,1992 


GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
6Ut55 7HC. C.UCTION
WHO COUt.f? HAV& 
REAL-l-Y WAS A!30UT
PR/3/?Ir::TW 7HI5 
QTRUST!
0MIRACU3? 
QCHANG&!
QO&BACte? 
0 
0 
CJ 

5URE AM toOI<ING FORIAJARP 70 FCIUR. MOR& YCAR5 OF 
0 WING NOTHING. OWINGNOTHING. 
'It you hate a person, you hate something in him that is part of yourself. What isn't part of ourselves doesn't disturb us.' 
Herman Hess 
Ain't no time for hate, submit: 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND. IN 46556 

----~-----~---­
ection ' 

A Supplement to the Observer
page 1 Wednesday, November 4, 1992 
Clinton beats Bush in ND precincts 
Bayh, Coats and Roemer also win 
By PANCHO LOZANO and ceived 53 percent (277 votes), STEPHEN ZAVESTOSKI while President Bush received News Writers 37 percent (191 votes) and Ross 
Gov. Bill Clinton won two of • ND voting history I page 4 three precincts for Notre Dame • Indiana races I page 2 voters in yesterday's election. In the Portage 1 precinct, Perot received 14 percent (7 4 
Clinton received 43 percent votes). (172 votes), while Bush received The Clay 2 precinct is not ex­40 percent (162 votes) and clusively for Notre Dame stu­
Perot 10 percent (39 votes). In dents. that precinct, 401 votes were The Observer was unable to cast. obtain results from the Portage
In the Portage 1 B precinct, 1A precinct, where Saint Mary's Bush edged Clinton by a 10 students voted. percent margin with 48 percent In the race for the third dis­(94 votes) to 38 percent (74 trict, Representative Tim "·,.,'Pit.,. " 
;<,...-;>p· ~

votes) for the Democratic Hoerner took all three precincts 
the ClintontGOre

candidate. Perot received 12 tallied with a 69 percent major­Gov. Bill Clinton, shown here campaigning earlier this fall, has lost his voice at occasion during the campaign. 
percent (23 votes). One hun­itv (730 votes) to Baxmeyer's 31 Clinton joked of the situation Monday, saying he'd be the country's voice for the next four years. .
dred-ninety four votes were percent (327 votes). 
percent (441 votes). defeated Timothy Bookwalter the media early on," she said,
cast there. In the race for the Senate 
Incumbent Gov. Evan Bayh 547-370. "but overall everything wentIn the Clay 2 precinct, which seat, Sen. Dan Coats defeated defeated Hepublican Lindley According to Ann Casini, in-smoothly."
took place at the Little Flower Democratic challenger Joe 
Pearson 674-312. spector of the Portage 1 Casini said a local televisionChurch llall, 518 voters came to llogsett in the three precincts In the race· for Attorney precinct, voting went smoothly. station reporter was trying tothe polls and 38 absentee by taking 53 percent (547 votes) General, Democrat Pam Cartcr "We had a small problem with see CAMPUS 1 page 4ballots were cast. Clinton re-while Hogsett recieved 44 
Campus leaders positive about Clinton victory 
By PAUL PEARSON importance of education, par­Associate News Editor ticularly higher education, in bringing a higher quality of life 
Reactions from Notre Dame for everyone,"said Father Ed­and Saint Mary's students and ward Malloy, president of Notre campus leaders to Clinton's Dame. victory last night ranged from Saint Mary's President elation to disappointment. William Hickey said he would 
Voters chose Clinton as an like to see whether Clinton and "agent of change" because they a Democratic Congress "will be "were a little sick and tired" of able to create greater job op­the present administration, ac­portunities for the people." cording to Andrew Holmgren of Clinton has a big challenge College Democrats at Notre ahead, according to Lyons Hall Dame. Rector Sister Kathleen Beatty. 
Hall Presidents' Council Co­"We have to have something chairman Jason Coyle said he totally different in our domestic was glad the governor won and arena," she said. hoped that Americans will be Sorin Hall Rector Father able to put the past aside and Stephen Newton said he is glad "have four good years." that Americans rejected Bush, 
Student Body President Greg who "had no social conscious­Butrus said he was impressed ness whatsoever." with the record turnout of Others were less pleased with young voters. "It seems Clinton the outcome. John Cowen of speaks more to their agenda, College Republicans said he and it is reflective of the fact was disappointed with Bush's
A gift from Notre Dame that in the future young people loss, but it is now more impor­are going to be taking more of tant than ever for Hepublicans
President-elect Bill Clinton receives a token of appreciation from University President Father Edward Malloy 
an active role in politics." to remain active to help Amer­(right) and Notre Dame Football Coach Lou Holtz (center) during his visit to the University. Clinton addressed "I would hope that the next ica "stay on the road to eco­member of the Notre Dame community on Sept. 11 during his presidential campaign. 
president would recognize the nomic recovery." 
Clinton must form economic plan for divided population 
By BECKY BARNES 
the outcome reveals uncertainty gathering people and planning concrete proposal for spending regard for professional politi­Assistant News Editor about the public's choice for a programs, said Arnold. reduction within six months to a cians, said Kmiec. His cam­new direction, Bush's defeat re­Clinton must take a three­year if his presidency is to be a paign connected to the people
President-elect Bill Clinton flects the voter's unhappiness stage approach to solving the success, he continued. and "pumped some life blood must form an economic policy with the past 12 years, he said. economic problems of the coun­But the problems of the econ-back into the political system," that addresses the nation's Clinton now must take this try, he said. First, a short-term omy will not be solved immedi-• said Leege. problems while working with vote for change and mold it into program to provide moderate ately, and no one should expect A third party lacks infrastruc­
the divided population that re­a program to help the economy, economic stimulus, such as too much, said Leege. ture and is difficult to maintain,vealed itself in the narrow he continued. public spending on infrastruc­
The democratic majority said Kmiec. Perot will probably
margin of the popular vote, said The position of a president­ture. He must then decide 
elected into the House and not drop out of the political
several Notre Dame professors elect is somewhat like that of a about long-term programs in Senate may present an envi-landscape, but perhaps find a following the presidential pilot landing an aircraft carrier, areas of human resources like ronment in which Clinton can role as a television commenta­election. coming to sudden stop from an vocational education, public take real strides in problem tor, said Kmiec, or play some The Democratic victory is a extremely high speed, said schools and health policy, and solving, said Kmiec. Although small role in Clinton's economic 
"momentous occasion" since Arnold. Clinton has been on an finally deal with larger struc­the "democratic monopoly" may program, said Arnold. only one Democrat has held the extensive period of campaign­tural problems. pose problems, if Clinton is presidency in the last 24 years, ing, and he is now suddenly Resources must be shifted "genuinely going to pursue a President Bush will probablysaid Peri Arnold, chair of the faced with the reality of the and cuts must be made, which moderate course, than he's got spend the remainder of his term government department. presidency. "It's an extraordi­is a process of "legislating real opportunity to address
a quietly and will make an "effort 
The combined performance of nary change of focus," he said. pain," said Arnold. Although some problems and heal some 
not to make any critical 
Clinton and Perot shows a ma­Clinton will spend the next increased spending for short­wounds," Kmiec continued. decisions that will make it diffi­jority not for Clinton but for months of the transition period 
term economic stimulus may be The sizable vote for Perot re­cult for an incoming president," change, said Leege. Although forming his administration, successful, Clinton must show a flects public skepticism and low said Kmiec. 

--~-~-------~---·­
page 2 
The people speak out: How they voted and why 
HARPERS FERRY. W.Va. (AP) -Pat Bartley, wearing jeans and a corduroy shirt, stands before the old brick Camp Hill Wesley United Methodist Church where two tiny American flags mark it as a polling place. She brushes away the gnats -the result of a sudden burst of warm weather -and talks about Bill Clinton. 
"He's airy-fairy," she says, then explains that when she can't think of an exact word for something she makes one up. 
"With Clinton, it's like waving a magic wand, and everything is going to be good and wonderful." 
So who got her vote? Clinton. Bartley is a general contractor. She 
has built four houses, one that turned out to be impossible to sell. She learned fine woodworking from her handyman­father and picked up carpentry. She likes to build. 
Across America, the politicians fell silent on Tuesday and the people had their say. On this day, in this land, the leaders listened for their marching orders. The people were sovereign. 
Some of the voters stopped to talk about their vote. Ms. Bartley, swatting away the gnats, explained hers. 
"It was a real dilemma," she said, "a tougher dilemma than any time I've ever had voting." 
She started out for Ross Perot, "who was willing to deal with the issues," but maybe he couldn't win, and that would re-elect George Bush. 
She was young herself, once, she said, and felt like Clinton did about Vietnam. Bush bringing that up made her angry. It was a long time ago; people change. 

Now that Clinton's her man, she hopes he will find a way to bolster the economy. And do something about "the deprivation of some of our people who live in the streets." And about "the extravagance" of government spending. And the deficit. 
"We need to look at the deficit," said this home builder. "It needs to be attended to." 
As for Bush, she paused, said there had been so much mud she did not want to add to it. "I guess," she said at last, "maybe he did the best he could." 

At the South Main Street Elementary School in Pleasantville, N.J., a rack containing The Book of Knowledge propped open the door to the library, a polling place. 
Kids giggled at the line of adults, strangers in their school. 
Frank LaRosa, 75, a real estate agent, always a registered Democrat, acknowledged that times are rough. The LaRosa family first leaned toward Clin­ton, but didn't like what they learned of Clintonomics. They went for Bush. 
Clinton "scared the hell out of us," said LaRosa. 
Child psychologist John Sikorski got a kick out of voting in a mausoleum, the San Francisco Columbarium, a domed building that shelves the cremated remains of 15,000 people in ur'ls and boxes. 
"This," he said, "is an appropriate place for this election." He chose Clinton, "lesser of three evils." "I love voting here," he said . 
Cheryl Morris, 34, a lifelong Republican, went to the polls in Jacksonville, Fla., intending to vote for Perot. There she changed her mind; what if Clinton were to win? 
She would have stuck to her guns if Perot had had a chance, "but I didn't As for Clinton: "A snake in the grass," said this Bush voter. 
ELECTION '92 
Wednesday, November 4, 1992 
Democrats maintain Senate hold 
WASHINGTON (AP) Carol Moseley Braun became the first blac woman in the Senate giving women record setting membership i the male-dominate chamber, in election Tuesday that seeme certain to strengthen Democratic Party majority rule. 
Braun's victory i Illinois, coupled wi former San Francis Mayor Dianne F triumph in California, creased membership in Senate from three to five.. Two other Democrats Rep. Barbara Boxer California and Patt Murray in Washingto state, also made stron bids for Senate seats. 
In Colorado, Democratic Rep. Be Nighthorse Campbell be­came the Senate's firs American Indian, defeating Republica Terry Considine. The pony-tailed Campbell makes jewelry and was member of the 1964 U.S. Olympic judo team. 
Incumbents of both the Democratic and Republican parties were faring well despite the harsh anti-incumbent mood in the American electorate. 
Eleven Democratic incumbents won new terms, while only one, Sen. Terry Sanford of North Carolina, was upset. On the GOP side, seven incumbents survived Democratic challengers while only two, 
Sens. Hobert Kasten of Wisconsin and John Seymour of California, were ousted. 
Democrats were in good shape to pad their 57-43 advantage over Hepublicans -but not by much -in a Senate that often was stalled by partisan bickering during the 102nd Congress. With 60 members, Democrats theoretically would 
Hepublican Sen. Arlen Specter. attack for his performance uring the Clarence Thomas-Anita Jill Supreme Court confirmation ngs, barely survived a scare m Lynn Yeakel, who said she impelled to run becausP of the 
harassment issue. 

Sanford was upset by Democrat­urned-Republican, Lauch aircloth, who used negative vertising to accuse the in­of being a big-spending iberal who took too many ongressional junkets. Sanford 
off the campaign trail for two eeks after undergoing heart ry late in October. 
Republican Sen. Alfonse Amato, who rode to the Senate n the Ronald Reagan landslide in 980, survived a stiff challenge .i'i'i,ilfr....."' Democratic Attorney General Abrams in one of the most of all the Campaign 92 Senate contests. D'Amato painted Abrams as "hopelessly lib-
But in Wisconsin, Kasten, who was seeking a third term. was beaten by state Sen. Russell 
Feingold, a Rhodes scholar who used humor and lighter-side campaign commercials to poke fun at his opponent. 
"You hired me and I know who the boss is -you are the boss," a jubilant Feingold told supporters in his victory statement. "We showed that monev is not the only thing in politics." · 
GOP makes gains in House, but fail to control Veterans, newcomers squeak through to 'radically new' Congress 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Voters Tuesday elected record numbers of blacks and women to the House and ousted more than 20 incumbents. Hepublicans headed for modest gains despite Democrat Bill Clinton's victory. 
The GOP won or was leading in 27 seats previously held by Democrats, while Democrats were wresting 14 seats away from the minority party. Redis­tricting appeared likely to cost Democrats two other seats, for a total loss of about 15. 
But the changes were far short of the number needed for Republicans to take control of the House, which has been in Democratic hands since 1954. The current House lineup is 268 Democrats, 166 Republicans. 
Five Southern Southern states sent their first black representatives to Washington since the 1800s, and record numbers of women were elected in what was shaping up as the most radically changed House since 1932, when 165 seats turned over. 
Against a backdrop of institutional scandals and record retirements, dozens of sitting House members were in the closest races of their careers. In the earliest returns, however, most incumbents seemed to be holding their own. 
"I think Bill Clinton tonight is helping a lot of people," said Rep. John Lewis, D­Ga., a member of the House leadership, as he surveyed returns showing that many of his colleagues will return next year. 
But in Texas, Hepublican television executive Henry Bonilla shocked incumbent Democrat Albert Bustamante, whom he had attacked for writing 30 "cheques calientes" ­Spanish for "hot checks" -at the infamous House bank. 
Voters in northwest Missouri rejected Republican Rep. Tom Coleman, who had a narrow escape two years ago and was accused of ignoring the homefolks. He was ousted by Democratic state Sen. Pat Danner, who will help swell the number of women in the House. 
In South Carolina, Hepublican attorney Bob Inglis surprised Democratic incumbent Liz Patterson and Minnesota Democrat Gerry Sikorski was soundly beaten by Hepublican Rod Grams, a former TV anchorman and abortion opponent. 
Ohio Democrat Mary Rose Oakar, labeled as one of the worst abusers in the House bad-check scandal, was downed by lawyer Martin Hoke in a district that was redrawn to include more Republicans. 
Two incumbents were defeated by lawmakers who ran on their credentials as veterans of the Persian Gulf War: Republican Don Hitter in Pennsylvania, who was beaten by Marine Corps reservist and former state Rep. Paul McHale, a Democrat; and Democrat Jim Jontz in Indiana, ousted by attorney and Gulf War veteran Steve BuyH, a Hepublican. 

_____, ___ 

---------------~·----~--------------~~ --~---~--~~­
ELECTION '92
Wednesday, November 4, 1992 page 3 
NO-grad Roemer wins re-election bid 
By MARK KREJCI 
News Writer 
In an election year in which many politicians resorted to negative cam­paigns, Democratic Rep. Tim Roemer last night proved he could win with a positive message. 
Roemer, a Notre Dame graduate, defeated Republican challenger Carl Baxmeyer for a second term as an Indiana representative for the third con­gressional district. 
At press time, the incumbent con­gressman had 58 percent (112,193 votes) to Baxmeyer's 42 percent (79,784 votes) with 421 of 480 precincts (88 per­cent) reporting results. 
Roemer announced at 10:20 p.m. at the Democratic Party celebration that Baxmeyer had formally conceded the election. 
In his victory speech at M.R. Falcon's Club, Roemer said he wants to "bring people together to work for a just America, a fair America" and that "more emphasis should be placed on productivity and people instead of guns and Gucci." 
Roemer, in his campaign, said he was committed to put America back to work and make Congress work better for the people. 
During the campaign. Baxmeyer argued that people were ready for a change in a Congress that did not address the country's problems. But the Republican's negative advertising did not prove effective. 
Roemer says he has pushed for "fully funded Head Start programs for four to five year olds," and that he supports Indiana Plus which provides better job 
Observer file photo 

Notre Dame alumni Tim Roemer, shown here in a 1990 campaign stop at the University, 
will retain his 3rd district congressional seat. 
training and internships to high school students. 
The congressman said he supports Clinton's National Trust Service Plan by which any college students can receive a college loan, to be paid back through payroll deductions or community service. 
Roemer's foremost strength to voters was his accesibility to his constituency, according to Mark Thomas, doctoral candidate in Notre Dame's government department. Roemer's "strength is constituent service." 
South Bend Mayor Joe Kernan agreed. 
"Elected officials need to be accessible." Other policies of the Congressman include: 
• 
Roemer supports a Marshall Plan for America to rebuild roads and bridges, strengthen our manufacturing base and create new jobs. 

• 
He aims to control medical costs and guarantee basic health coverage to all. 

• 
He opposes the Bush's NAFTA, which he said "would send Indiana jobs to Mexico." 


Baxmeyer could not be reached for comment after the election. 
Coats, Bayh sail to predicted re-election ­
(AP) -Indiana incumbents fared well in Tuesday's elections, as Gov. Evan Bayh and Sen. Dan Coats won re­election bids. and nine of ten incumbent representatives were sent back to Washington. 
Bayh got the mandate he wanted, if not the team he wanted to help him in a second term. 
The governor swept to a record victory Tuesday, capturing 62 percent of the vote to become only the fourth Democrat in history to win a second term as Indiana's chief executive. 
"I can't begin to tell you how much I appreciate the vote of confidence and support you gave me this evening," Bayh told supporters at a Democratic victory rally. "I am deeply humbled." 
With 96 percent of Indiana's precincts reporting. Bayh had 1,296,909 votes, or 63 percent, to 776,457, or 37 percent, for Republican Linley E. Pearson. 
But the governor didn't get everything he wanted: Republicans maintained control of the state Senate, a GOP bul­wark against Bayh legislative initiatives the last four years, and former Bayh aide Stan Jones lost the contest for superintendent of public instruction. 
Despite the mixed results in other races, Bayh, the nation's youngest governor, contended that the size of his victory "allows me to argue even more persuasively with the Legislature." 
It was a bad year for incumbents in many places, but not for Sen. Dan Coats, who found safety by standing on his principles. 
"We chose the road less traveled," Coats said after defeating Democrat Joe Hogsett. "We made decisions we thought were best for the long-term interests of this nation and Indiana." 
Coats defeated Hogsett, the Indiana secretary of state, 1,236,491 votes, or 58 percent, to 877,585, or 42 percent, with 99 percent of the state's precincts reporting. 
Coats survived despite his vote to close Indiana's two military bases -Fort Benjamin Harrison in Indianapolis, and Grissom Air Force Base in Peru. 
The cutbacks in the defense budget will cost Indiana thousands of military and civilian jobs, and Hogsett claimed the senator had turned his back on the state. 
"I hope this victory tonight is the end of politics as usual, and the beginning of a new era, doing what's right, even if it's not politically expedient," Coats told cheering supporters Tuesday night. 
Hogsett said the attack hurt his candidacy, but wasn't decisive. 
''I'm sure anytime somebody says you can't be trusted, it doesn't help you," Hogsett said. "It may have swayed some voters, but I think ultimately this race was won or lost on the basis of the way people perceived the kind of leadership that Dan Coats has brought to the United States Senate the four years he has been there." 
Nine of Indiana's 10 House members won reelection despite a brooding voter disaffection toward Congress. 
Democrat Jim Jontz lost his 5th District seat in Tuesday's election to Steve Buyer, a Republican who said he ran in memory of one of his Persian Gulf War comrates who didn't make it home to Indiana. 
"We sat in that desert for months and were proud to serve, but we came back and we saw the government was in gridlock, that things weren't being done to address the problems of the people," Buyer said after he defeated Jontz 111,567 votes to 106,926. 
Buyer and Lori Lawton, a Purdue University doctoral student from Lafayette, went to Saudi Arabia as part of an Indianapolis-based Army Reserve unit. She died in a combat vehicle accident. He said he ran to address the nation's problems in tribute to her. 
"You return from the theater of war ... and see things going on in the country that upset you and you say, 'Excuse me, but our country is better than this,"' Buyer said. 

~-~~--------~------~----------~----­
ELECTION '92 
page 4 Wednesday, November 4, 1992 
Clinton win cduld end DC gridlock 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Bill works projects to create jobs. Clinton's sweeping victory and the election of dozens of fresh Clinton promised tax cuts for faces in Congress create instant the middle class, but that might expectations for a break in gov­go on hold because of the ernment gridlock and a rush record budget deficit that toward solutions to fix the topped $290 billion. economy. 
After 12 years of Republican Voters also made clear they rule at the White House, the want the president and country is turning toward an­Congress to produce a plan to other course, with Clinton's ac­control soaring health-care tivist government in command. costs and provide coverage for It's an unmistakable vote for the more than 40 million Amer­change. icans who have no health in­
"We're going to have a very surance. active government for awhile," Clinton said he would phase predicted Michael Deaver, one in universal coverage, and a of the top advisers in Ronald national health board would set Reagan's White House. "That's budget ceilings for health care going to get the town bustling. spending. All the communications people With the election behind him, and lobbyists are going to be Clinton's next assignment active again-health care, jobs would be the 10-week transi­bills, tax proposals." tion to taking over the White 
"Hold on to your seats," said House. Burton Yale Pines, chairman of His first appointments were 
Quayle's future questioned 
the National Center for Public expected to be members of his Policy Research, a conservative economic team and his secre­think tank, predicting a surge tary of state. The hope is to of legislation when Congress send reassuring signals that 
Stays mum while supporters chant of '96 
returns in January. Bills that he's serious about getting the President Bush vetoed, family economy going, and that he will INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Vice 
get him into the National Guard leave for instance, are sure to be a serious player on the President Dan Quayle, silencing during the Vietnam War. be back next year and coast world stage. supporters who booed Bill Clin­Quayle never caught his foot­through. ton's name, accepted defeat ing in that campaign, and was There will be a giant turnover It won't take a complicated Tuesday night with a call for leveled by Sen. Lloyd Bentsen in 
in jobs, as more than 3,000 search process to Clinton to fill healing and a promise to keep debate with his "you're no Jack Republican political appointees his ~government because he's fighting "for what I believe in." Kennedy line." are replaced by Democrats. got extensive political ties, Moments after President Bush But Quayle aides argued he 
-
Real estate agents already Democrats said. "For Bill Clin­finished his own concession was a strong campaigner this are licking their chops in ton, his Rolodex, his Christmas speech, Quayle strode into a year and said no one could se­
anticipation of sales. card list is his talent list," said hotel ballroom here filled with riously argue that he cost Bush 
Clinton offered a generational Democratic strategist Ann 400 mostly young supporters. this election. and ideological change. At 46, Lewis. "I would expect you'd As a band played "Ain't No­Earlier in the day, Quayle he'll be the first baby boomer in see a number of governors" on body Crying," the crowd broke Dan Quayle strolled around his hometown the White House. his team. into a chant of "Quayle '96!" of Huntington and visited his 
what I believe in and I will con­
Come January, more than 100 "Thank you, Indiana," the 45-dentist before voting and 
tinue to stand up and to speak
new House members will take Many Democrats elected to year-old vice president told awaiting the verdict on his fu­
for what I believe in," said
their seats. Intent on restoring Congress were only too happy Hoosier voters who supported ture. 
Quayle, who battled some of the 
their legitimacy in the eyes of to have Clinton at the top of the Republicans when only a hand­The mood was grim among
highest negative ratings of any 
voters, lawmakers will be intent ticket, and that should help ex­ful of other states did. backers of the Republican
vice president. 

on getting things done. tend his honeymoon. When Quayle said he had just ticket. 
He had to shush the crowd
got off the telephone with Clin­"The sun doesn't shine on the 
again when his par~isans booed
Stephen Wayne, a George­"For the first year he's going ton, the crowd booed. same dog's butt all the time,"
AI Gore's name. "They deserve
town University specialist on to have a long, long leash," said "No, tonight is Bill Clinton's said Rex Early, Indial)a's GOP 
our respect. And we will work
the presidency, said Clinton's I;arry Sabato, a University of night," said Quayle. "We must chairman, as he left a private
with them to make America
victory generates "a kind of Virginia political scientist. all pull together now. He is go­vote-watching party at the 
stronger," he said. 

new optimism that government "Democrats are going to be ing to be the president of the Columbia Club, where Quayle
Quayle's wife, Marilyn, and
can work." falling over themselves to be United States for the next four and his family were spending
their three teenagers stood with 
nice. The second year is when years." the night. 
him on the stage. 

Fixing the economy is job No. you're going to hear loud de­"If he runs the country as well Hundreds of well-wishers 
Quayle's political career be­
1. And Election Day provided mands from the interest groups as he ran his campaign, we'll cheered the vice president as 
gan in 1976 when he ousted a
an unwelcome reminder of the for payment due." be all right," said Quayle, fully he strolled to the courthouse in 
veteran Democratic congress­
problem: The government's composed in the first defeat of his hometown of Huntington, 
man.

gauge of future economic activ­Democrats say Clinton his 16-year career in Ind .. Tuesday morning to cast 
He went on to unseat three­
ity fell in September for the learned from Jimmy Carter's Washington. his ballot. 
term Democratic Sen. Birch
third time in four months. mistakes and won't spill out a After praising Bush, Quayle Even Ed Roush, the Democrat 
Bayh in 1980. Four years ago
limitless agenda. "He'll keep his spoke of his own future. Quayle defeated for Congress in 
George Bush tapped him as a
Clinton aides said his first priorities in order," said Lewis. "We have made a difference 1976, reached out to shake 
surprise running mate. The
proposals would be aimed at "He will not go up to Congress and we will continue to make a hands. 
grandson of a newspaper pub­
sparking the economy. He is with a 1,000-page shopping list. difference," he said. Quayle's ritual visit to his 
lisher, Quayle was quickly
expected to propose investment He is realistic enough to "Thank you, Dan," the crowd dentist, Dr. John Regan, began
caught up in questions over
tax breaks and tens of billions understand he can do a few chanted. when he won his first congres­
whether strings were pulled to
of dollars in spending on public kinds of change at a time." "I have always stood up for sional race. 

Notre Dame/St. Mary's Precinct Voting History 
Portage Precinct 1 Notre Dame/St. Mary's 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students' voting records have historically mirrored the national electorate's. The presidential winner is noted for diJ!IIIIIIIIIIeCIUOrls in which the Portage precincts differed from the national 
George Bush (Rep) * 1940 Wendell Wilkie (Rep)Ronald Reagan (Rep) Franklin Roosevelt 

nald Reagan 1936 Franklin Roosevelt 

Ford (Rep) 1932 Franklin Roosevelt 

al-Jimmy Carter (Dem) * 1928 Alfred Smith (Dem).

*1972 McGovern (Dem) Herbert Hoover (Rep) Nixon (Rep) 

* 1924 John Davis (Dem)*1968 phrey (Dem) Calvin Coolidge (Rep) 
Nixon 1920 Warren Harding (Rep) 1964 ohnson (Dem) 

1916 Woodrow Wilson (Dem)1960 
* 1908 William Jennings Bryan (Dem) 1956 
William Howard Taft (Rep)1952 
1904 Theodore Roosevelt (Rep)1948 
1900 William McKinley (Rep) *1944 
information courtesy of St. Joseph County Election Board and Monica Yant The Observer/Ann-Marie Conrado 
spector.

Campus 
Students leaving the polls tended to be hesitant about
continued from page 1 
their vote. 

interview voters as they waited in line to vote. After a mix up in "I voted for everything else," which a voter entered the poll said one student, "then came without signing his name due to back to the president and de­confusion following an inter­cided to vote for Clinton." view, the reporter was asked to leave in order to avoid any Another student said she further interference in the 
hadn't decided to vote for voting process. Clinton until she got to the 
Of three machines tallying polling booth. votes for the two precincts in the J .A. C. C., Casini said two 
Other students shared the were jammed at one time. same sentiments on the side of Bush. 
"We had a big crowd at lunch time before things picked up "I figured he hadn't done such again when students started a bad job after all in his first coming in after classes," she four years," said one student. said. After the votes were tallied at Voting went smoothly at the the precincts, an official copy
Little Flower Church Hall, ac­
was sealed and taken to the 

cording to Dorothy Howell. in-county city building. 
Viewpoint
Wednesday, November 4, 1992 page 9 
Present economic policy could be called 'looting' 
My objective in this section is to explain positions and offer ideas that work to the benefit of Americans and their institu­tions. The judgment on the value of what is said is left to you, the reader. Let's start by looking at our present economic system. 
Our present economic policy can be described in one word and that word is looting. 
A workhorse of looting is cor­porate raiding. A company is functioning. It's paying taxes; it's providing the income for people to care for their families; it's investing in research and development; it's investing in new equipment. The corporate raider sees this and decides to work his magic. 
When the corporate raider is finished, the corporate raider has made a huge sum of money and the company is saddled with huge amounts of debt. The result is that the company is no longer making any money so there are no taxes to pay; it has to cut back so people get laid off and now don't have the income to provide for their families; the money that was spend on re­search and development and new equipment is now used to service the debt. 
Looting -contribute nothing and take everything. 
Another workhorse is inter­national looting. We close down United States facilities and re­open them abroad. Our workers now have no place to use and develop their skills, to make innovations. 
In time, their skills deteriorate 
Frank Corey 
Guest Columnist 
and become obsolete. All the future innovations that would have been made by the workers if that facility had remained in the U.S. will not be made now. We have given up our place as an industrial nation. 
When the facility reopens abroad, the wages paid are so low that the workers are forced to live in one room shacks without running water. In short, we are making these people hate us. The ramifications of this are enormous. 
Studying the previous three paragraphs, we should ask ourselves: "How are the best interests of Americans being served here; how is our ability to prosper in a global economy being served here; how is world stability and hence our security being served here?" 
In my opinion, this leads to a hard question that no one has asked but, I feel, must be asked and that is: "Is our present economic policy a viable eco­nomic policy working for the benefit of Americans and their institutions or is it an extremist political policy serving other goals?" 
Now let's look at democracy. Democracy is government of the people, by the people, and for the people. Simply, government works to improve the lot of its citizens and their institutions. Following are suggestions to do that. 


Let's start with a policy for getting sales from outside our borders. Market positioning. Let's look at other countries as a vast market for goods and services. Many things they need are not made in their country. We want them to like us so they will want to buy from us. 
Let's say to neighboring countries that we want to raise their living standards to ours. We want to be good neighbors. And we can do that by adopting a policy that says that on all manufactured goods entering the U.S., the labor on those goods is paid the same wage as the average wage in the U.S. for the same product (wage parity}. 
Say a textile worker in Hon­duras makes fifty cents an hour. One week he/she works on goods that are being shipped to the U.S. where the average wage is $8 per hour, so for that week instead of making $20 for forty hours, he/she makes $320. What do you think he/she would think of Americans? Do you think he/she would buy an American product as opposed to a Japanese or German product if given the choice? 
Now what if we make a law that says every U.S. company with facilities in foreign coun­tries are to immediately raise their wages and conditions to 
U.S. 
standards and are to re­main open for a period of at least five years? What would this do for the acceptance of 

U.S. 
made products in these countries? Wouldn't this also work towards world stability? 


Access to domestic markets. A democracy should protect its citizens and their institutions. The question to be asked is: "Should the government do anything more in protecting the above than having a policy of wage parity and anti-dumping regulations? here again this is a question that each individual American must answer for himself. 
We are engaged in a war for the survival of our standard of living. To succeed we need the brains and the actions of each American. The ball is now in your court. 
Frank Corey is a construction worker living in Crystal Lake. Illinois. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
I could not help but respond to Anne Linehan's letter of Oct. 10 ("Rating system of 'evils' needs work"). I take great ex­ception with her characteriza­tion of Mr. Payne's ethics. 
Ms. Linehan, it is no more possible for Mr. Payne to un­derstand rape, slavery, or pregnancy than it is for you to understand the fetus' trauma as it is aborted. 
Such logic does not destroy his argument. Nor does his belief that abortion is a greater evil than rape or slavery necessarily mean that he would pass an enslaved human being or a rape victim without reacting. 
And the accusation that he would rather see a woman raped or another person enslaved than take his girl­friend, sister, or daughter to an abortion clinic is nothing but inflammatory, and detracts from the point of his letter. 
The point of his letter, if you could get past your own preju­dices, is that nothing is more precious than human life -in all forms. 
To be sure, rape (which, inci­dentally, account for less that 5 percent of abortions in the U.S.) 
Logical arguments, not inflammatory attacks 
and slavery are heinous acts, and any conscientious human being would not favor them at all. Mr. Payne is merely pointing out his belief that a} the fetus is a life, b) that abortion is a wrongful taking of that life, and that c) as such, abortion is murder. 
This being the case, his point is that abortion is worse than rape or slavery, just as he be­lieves that murder is worse than rape or slavery. A victim of rape or slavery has the chance to receive a redress for their grievances, but the victims of murder and abortion have only. one choice -death. 
Of course, it is possible that you disagree with these beliefs that Mr. Payne holds. However, Ms. Linehan, your cause is better served by arguing logi­cally, not wrongfully accusing him of things he does not be­lieve, or accusing him of "cold­hearted ignorance." 
Such inflammatory statements as yours do not serve to clarify issues, they merely cloud them even more. 
Kristopher S. Hull 
Stanford Hall 
Oct. 30, 1992 Dear Editor, 

As I write this letter, it is four days before election day. I am as of yet undecided as to who I should vote for, but I will vote. 
I know it will be too late for this letter to be in print before election day; nevertheless, I feel compelled to respond to Joseph Vallely's letter (Oct. 30) in which he labels all who vote for "pro­abortion" candidates as mortal sinners. 
I ask Vallely "So who do I vote for?" Bill Clinton and Ross Perot (as well as most of the minor candidates) are pro­choice; therefore, if I vote for any of them, I, by Vallely's rea­soning, commit a mortal sin. 
If I vote for George Bush, by the same line of reasoning, am I no less a sinner? Bush's policies of neglect have allowed poverty, suffering and death to continue in our inner cities and in countries torn by war and its aftermath. 
I am trying very hard to make an informed decision so that I can (hopefully) vote for the 
Will God be more understanding? 

Alcohol Awareness Week appreciated 
candidate who will do the most good or at least the least amount of harm while he is in office. 
According to Vallely's chain of logic if I vote for any of the available candidates, I am damned. 
If I don't vote at all, substan­tial harm may be inflicted by a candidate I might have voted against, either by his action or by his inaction, and therefore, I have sinned by not attempting to avert harm by voting against him. 
So Joseph Vallely, what do I do? Vote and be damned, or not vote and be damned? I was never warned during my Catholic upbringing that I would be in danger of eternal hell by exercising my duty as a Christian and U.S. citizen to vote. 
Of course, it's entirely possible that God is a little more un­derstanding of my fallibility than Vallely and realizes no one can make a perfect choice when there are no perfect options (not even close!) from which to choose. 
Anna M. Hill Graduate Student Oct. 30, 1992 

Dear Editor: 
I would like to express my appreciation and support to the Office of Drug and Alcohol Edu­cation, Students Against Drunk Driving, the St. Joseph's County Prosecutors Department, and anyone else involved in the activities of National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week. 
Drunk driving is a very seri­ous matter, and few people realize just how many lives it affects. 
My own sister was killed by a drunk driver three years ago, on Oct. 29, 1989. She was 23 years old and had a very bright future ahead of her. I cannot even count the number of peo­ple who were affected by her sudden and tragic death: family members, friends, her fiance, co-workers, old classmates, etc . And all of this pain was caused by one man who decided very irresponsibly to drive after drinking. 
I still can't believe it hap­pened to me, but it did. And, it can happen to you. I usually don't tell anyone about my sis­ter because it seems that peo­ple become very uncomfortable if it happens to come up, but this subject needs to be ad­dressed. I have learned to deal with the fact that drinking and driving kills. 
I just hope that this letter will stop at least one person from learning this lesson the hard way. 
Carrie Isabell Badin Hall 


Accent 
page 10 Wednesday, November 4, 1992 
Jahnelle Harrigan 
Things, life, whatnot 
DART: the nightmare continues 
I 
'm DARTing for the last time in my Notre Dame career, and I'm ready. 
I think. 
I'm in my room, sitting on the floor. I 
have my designer dorm phone, DART 
book. course authorization numbers, 
PIN number, three different DART 
worksheets, a Bud Light and two Advil spread 
out strategically in front of me. 
I'll admit it-l'm a nervous DARTer. 
Weeks before my "Day of Doom," I start to 
plan and worry. I see my advisor. I talk to 
friends who have taken classes I want. I see my 
advisor again. I hide away on the 13th floor of 
the library, thoroughly researching courses that 
intrigue me. I panic. 
For those of you who tend to scream, cry or 
throw large, sharp objects when DART time 
rolls around, here's some thoughts. 
A little music can always put you in the right 
state of mind and fire you up for some serious 
power-DARTing. A few suggestions for pre­
DARTing: 
•"867-5309, 
Jenny" by Tommy TuTone. A classic to get your fingers warmed up for some quick dialing. 

•"Against 
All Odds" or "Don't Lose my Number" by Phil Collins. Don't even think about losing DART's number-things could get ugly. 

•"With 
a Little Luck" by Wings and Paul McCartney. Exactly what everyone needs in this hellish game of chance. 

During your DART time-slot, try: 

•"Pressure" 
by Billy Joel. What more can I say? 


If your DARTing was a success, crank up 
"Celebration" by Kool and the Gang. But be 
realistic-"! Still Haven't Found What I'm 
Looking For" by U2 and that classic 70's tune "I 
Will Survive" by Gloria Gaynor should be ready 
to go-most likely, you'll need them. 
But even with the right music, DART scares 
me. 
I simply don't like the idea that my fate for an entire semester lies in the hands of a talking computer. Who the hell is he/she/it to tell an American Studies major she can't take CE 453-"Waste Disposal Management"-as an elective? What's wrong with this system? 
If I want to take AERO 443-"Vicious 
Flow"-as a women's health class, shouldn't I be 
able to? (Oops, sorry-that was "Viscous Flow.") 
I need permission to take 
PHIL355-"Philosophy in a Different Voice?" Oh, 
well ... I'm not sure I could talk in a different 
voice for an entire semester, anyway. 
But my aversion to DART goes even deeper. 
In fact, I have come to the frightening 
realization that DART isn't a mere computer. I 
think that DART is something more. In fact, I 
believe that DART is... human. 
The mastermind of the Administration, DART 
was created as a method of guaranteed torture 
for students once a semester. Although it is said 
to be a computer system, all indications show 
that Vice President of Student Affairs, Patty 
O'Hara, is DART. 
Now it all makes sense, you say? I agree. 
I've always had the eerie feeling that DART 
was laughing at me-with a sick, evil 
laugh-when it told me I was closed out of 
classes I needed. Now I know why-DART is 
punishing us for our du Lac sins. 
Well, my DART time is here, Billy Joel's in the 
background, my fingers are just itching to dial 
x3003 and I can't wait to hear those welcoming 
bells and my favorite words: "Good afternoon. 
The semester code for spring is ... " 
Crack open the Bud-it's time for war. 
Jahnelle Harrigan is the Accent editor ofThe Observer. Her columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 

Makin' it Big 
Holy Cross grad finds success in show business 
Photo courtesy of Brad Perry/Jenny Jones Brad Perry prepares to jump from a subway train as Damon Wayan's stunt and photo double in the film,' Mo'Money.' 
By ELISABETH HEARD Accent Writer 
Everyone dreams of making it big and going from rags to riches. But that is just a Hollywood dream, right? Wrong, just ask Brad Perry. Educated at Holy Cross Junior College, Perry has sprinted up the ladder of success in the difficult and competitive world of the entertain­ment industry. 
"I love acting," said Perry, and it was this love that prompted him to take acting classes at Notre Dame. He preformed in the 1987 -'88 St. Ed's production of the "Odd Couple,'' and then joined the Irish Accent comedy group. The acting bug bit him so hard, that in 1988 Perry decided to form his own comedy group called Misfits in Disguise. "I always wanted to have my own group," said Perry, "and we weren't really connected with Notre Dame, so we could be more risky in the things that we did." 
The group consisted of five students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross. "We had skits that were improvised like a Second City type of background," ex­plained Perry. "It was a success for the little time we had to do it." 
In the summer of 1989, Perry went to Chicago to pursue acting. He began by performing comedy and then landed a job as Damon Wayans' stunt and photo double in his movie "Mo' Money." "The only thing I didn't like was the fact that I had to shave my head,'' laughed Perry. 
After finishing the movie, Perry moved to Los Angles to work on television pilots from February to April. He was very fortunate for a beginner, and many of his shows made it past the primary cuts that are necessary before a show can be shown on the networks. 
The scrutinizing eye of Hollywood, however, often stood between him and getting certain parts. "I was very lucky," said Perry, "but I did get turned down a lot. Once I got turned down because I was an inch taller than the star." 
Perry returned to Chicago, and his life began its rapid climb. One day while working in The Gap on the North side of Chicago, Bo Banks, the production executive of the Jenny Jones show, came in. "She liked my kidding around, and said that I had potential for a couple of projects that she was doing and she asked me if I wanted to be a production assis­tant," said Perry. 
In a matter of two weeks, Perry rose from getting coffee and doughnuts to assisting the people who run the entire show. "For the most part I got coffee for them, got guests, and answered phones," Perry continued. "I did this for about two weeks. Then one day the executive 
'When someone tells you don't go into entertainment, do it. It's going to be frustrated and lonely at times, but don't give up.' 
-Brad Perry 

producers came in from the Donahue show to produce a Jenny Jones show. They liked me, and asked if I would like to be assistant to the executive producer. So now what I do is assist the people who oversee the show. People come to me if they want to talk to the executive producers." 
He continued to take another step on the ladder, and then another. "The show was looking for a person to warm up the audience before the show starts," explained Perry, "and because of my jokester personality I asked if I could be the warmup person, and I got the job. I tell jokes and get them really riled up," he said. 
But like all talk shows, some of the topics deal with things that are upsetting and depressing so Perry tries to lighten the mood. "I try to talk about it [the topic] like it's not sad. I do have serious topics but it's my job to make it not seem so bad. You want the audience to be warmed 
,.; 

up and asking questions," stated Perry. 
Working on the Jenny Jones Show is not the extent of Perry's talents. Perry has also developed his own production company. "I call it 'Blah, Blah, Blah Entertainment,' because I always heard so much crap about why I didn't get a part. After a while all I hear is 'Blah, blah, blah.'" ex­plained Perry. "What I do is get writers to write movies, and I try to push them to different studios. Hight now I have a movie about a black hockey player, and I am also working on a new television interview show geared for the MTV audience." 
The future looks very bright for this twenty-three year old. "By the time I am 25 I want to have movies and television shows done as both a producer and an actor,'' Perry said. "Some people say that you can't act and produce, but I think you can. In the distant future, when acting begins to take a wear and tear on my body, I want to strictly produce." 
Perry's quick rise to success has surprised everyone, even himself. "My dream was to act, but I never thought that at twenty-three I would be an assistant to an executive producer at a major TV show." He laughed, "I thought I would be starving by now." 
The times that Perry spent at Notre Dame are very special to him, and have influenced him in his career. "Start in Chicago," said Perry, "because it is closer to Notre Dame, which is home. People's arms are always open there, and Notre Dame will never let you down. Take advantage of Notre Dame and all of the opportunities because it is the greatest networking school. No matter where you go, people either love it or hate it, but they still respect it." 
Making it in any type on industry, especially television is not easy, but Perry has some advise for aspiring entertainers. "When someone tells you don't go into entertainment, do it," said Perry. "It's going to be frus­trating and lonely at times, but don't give up." 
--------~ -----~--------~~----------------~·-----------­
Wednesday, November 4, 1992 page 11 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classijieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
CHEAP return ticket to San  BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC  NEED BC TICKETS IN BIG WAY!  A PENNSYLVANIA RESIDENT  MEN AND WOMEN  
NOTICES  Francisco out of Chicago-OHare, 20 to 24 Nov.  Need BC Ticket -Stud or GA Call Greg at 3451  DEREK SCHNACK X1374  REALLY NEEDS 2 PENN STATE G.A.'S PLEASE!  FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE  
Call289-7114 after 7.  BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC  HELP!  
ATIENTION:  I NEED 2 B.C. TICKETS  CALL GEORGE  For more info, call COSIMO'S  
For more information and  For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call  HELP HELP HELP HELP HEL.:P  EITHER GA OR STUDENT  X3015  277-1875.  
assistance regarding the  Rita Delivery on Campus  
investigation of financing, business  234-6524  TWO LARGE ALUMS are  CALL KATIE X1262  Need BC tickets Will pay  NORDY,T-MAC,MONEY&DE BEBE  
opportunities and work-at-home  holding me captive and forcing me  $$$$-Call Brendan 289-2683  BOY  
opportunities, THE OBSERVER  Cheap trip to southern vactionland!  to drink MD 20/20 until I get them  SELL ME YOUR PENN STATE  
urges its readers to contact the  G.A.'s AND YOU CAN BE A PART  I really really really REALLY need 2  THANKS FOR OUR FIRST  
Better Business Bureau of  Selling a plane ticket to North  B. C. TICKETS  OF ONE OF THE BIGGEST  BC and 2 Penn State tickets. Please  PLAYOFF SEASON IN BADIN  
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  Carolina over Thanksgiving Break.  Please help!  TAILGATERS IN N.D. FOOTBALL  please please please call Monica  HISTORY!  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ You name the price.  CALL PAUL 289-4278  HISTORY!  @283-4033 and leave message  
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­ Call DAVE at 283-3662.  HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP  CALL RICH AT x1005  with nomber, price, etc.  YOU'LL ALWAYS BE OUR  
9121 or 800-439-5313.  "DADDIES"  
Need 2 BC GA's:  I need a PSU ticket. Do you have  We NEED Penn State GA's and  I NEED BC STUDENTS AND GA  LOVE  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 will pay $$$$ or trade 2 PENN GA. CALL AGNES 273-9376 TYPING I 287-4082 TICKETS ILOST & FOUND I.__Ne_e_d-Bo-st-on-C-ol-le-ge-T-ick_e_ts--J . · Please Call Chris x 1117  one? please call 2241 ! michelle PLEASE HELP­I really, really need any Penn \\\ State ticket!! Call Katie x2988 I NEED GA'S FOR BC AND PENN  Boston College student OR G.A. tix! Please call at x1771  TICKETS CALL STEVE AT 283-3422 NEED 2 PENN ST-GA OR STUD. call x4907: leave price and pho# One Student Ticket Booklet For BC and PSU Games For Sale. Lisa x1322.  THE '92 ATIITUDE To rny favorite Irishmen on first floor Cavanaugh: Thank you for taking care of me last week and hopping in bed with me when it was needed.· I owe you guys. See me personally for compensation. Love, your Polish  
Lost: 35mm Vivitar camera  ST. !!!! CALL AARON@ 271-2908  NEED  BPwife  
somewhere between 02 and Sarin.  NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX  Have 2 BC GAs. Call Maria@ 4036  
If found. please call x2690.  CALL JOE OR JAY X1760  Have 2 Penn st. Ga's  Boston College  w/ best offer.  Gulch and Socko,  
need 4 g.a's together and 5  Ciao Belli! Buongiorno da Rorna.  
LOST: Blue 3.5" floppy disk wallet  I NEED NO FOOTBALL  students for B.C.  GA's  Need Penn St. GA  Two lonely Italian chicks longing for  
Possibly left in Fitzpatrick cluster  TICKETS.272-6306  Need 8 penn st. Students  Tony x1786  two blond haired. blue eyed  
Call Jeff x2271  call mike at 273-2233  American guys for fun after Dec.  
These disks hold my homework!!  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Need Penn St Ga's  19. We rniss and love you!  
PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston College  I NEED 2 BC GA'S!  Call Jeanne  Bill x1594  Nora & Jennifer  
LOST: Silver earring; two linked  GAs or student tix. Call Jill@ x4758  CALL DARCY X3427.  
quarter-size circles with engraved  or x4721.  atx2645  NEED BCTIC  MARGE  
design on each. Lost on Saturday,  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  NEED: BC AND PENN STATE  CALL TIM 4441  
Oct. 31 somewhere on North Quad.  TICKETS. CALL BONNIE X4653  Physician and Attorney wish to  
If found. please call 289-6485.  Need One Ticket For Boston  I have 2 Billy Ray Cyrus tix for sale.  provide loving home for your child  
College!!! Call273-2967!!!  NEED 1 BC GA-JOHN X3648  Sec 12. ggod seats. Face value.  filled with hugs, kisses, laughter.  
Found: Dangling pearl earring.  Call Steph at 4090.  Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy  
Call 272-8356.  In Need of  Need many GA's for BC  The people who pay my tuition  Collect (708) 655-3124.  
Also looking for one student ticket  need 4 GAs for B.C.  Need Buttloads of BC tix  
WANTED  Please call Whitney at x2666  call Rich 233-9279  Call Ryan 271-1220  !  !  !  !  !  
BC  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR NO - Help!  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT­ tickets  Will pay BIG BUCK$ for your BC  BC GA TICKETS. CALL JOE @  I must have 3 BC GAs, or 2 GAs  Hobbes is still not 21, too bad  
fisheries. Earn $5000+/month. Free  GA's! Call Jim x3367  287-4561.  and 1 STU. Please Call X1234.  some day you'll drink with us  
transportation! Room & Board' Over  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Help!  
8000 openings. No experience  (as many as humanly possible)  PLEASE HELP, NEED B.C.  !! !! !  !  !  
necessary. Male or Female. For  call Aileen X4292  NEED PENN ST. TIX  TICKETS. CALL 1573  DO YOU NEED TICKETS? Selling 2  
employment program call Student  NICK X4284  Student ticket books  Doctor and teacher will make  
Employment Services at 1-206-545­ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  BB STUDENT TIX APP  with IDs for BC and Penn St.  dreams for your baby come true.  
4155 ext. A5584.  I must have B.C. tickets!  Either  I HAVE 2 GA'S TO BOTH B.C. AND  FOR SALE  CHEAP!!!  Call Bid  273-2954  Full-time parenting. Best of the city;  
Student or G.A.'s. My cousin and  PENN STATE FOR SALE. CALL  BEST OFFER  summers by the beach. Your baby  
EASY WORK! EXCELLENT PAY!  his buddies are coming in from  JOE AT 1758. BEST OFFER BY  USA  X4845  Boston GAs 4 sale  rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace  
ASSEMBLE PRODUCTS AT HOME.  B.C. to watch their team get  THURSDAY GETS THE TICKETS.  2711514  in winter, and by ocean waves in  
CALL TOLL FREE 1-800­ slaughtered! Please help me out!  GOOD LUCK!  TRADE YOUR TICKETS TO THE  summer. Art. music, the best  
467-6226 EXT 6840.  I'M DESPERATE!!!!!! X4990  FREEZING-COLD OUTDOOR  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  education, endless love. Call  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Trade/Selling BC GA's  PENN STATE GAME TO ME FOR  Franny or Stephen collect. (212)  
NEEDED: TUTOR for 3rd grade  for 1 PSU  x 4483  DRINKING MONEY SO YOU CAN  I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S/STUDS  369-2597.  
boy in SB. I tutored him last year  I NEED 3 BC GA'S AND 1 PENN ST  ENJOY THE WARMTH OF THE  CALL MIKE X:3343  
but I graduated. Please call me  GA. PRETTY PLEASE WITH A  For sale: 2 BC student tix. Call  GAME IN THE COMFORT OF  DO YOU LIKE KIDS? Then you'll  
collect in NY for more info Mike  CHERRY ON TOP.  Meredith at x2690  YOUR FAVORITE BAR STOOL  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  love this 3rd grade boy who needs  
Ferguson 718-325-9642 or call CSC  MIKEX2209  CALL RICH AT x1005  tutor. Call me collect in NY for more  
I need 2 GA's for the Penn State  NEED 1 STUD. TIC FOR BC GAME.  info@ 718-325-9642 or esc.  
I NEED PSU TIX: GNSTU CALL AL: 273-8382 EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our  NEED 10 PENN ST GAs BIG TIME CALL PAT x2071  game so badly, it's ridiculous. Call Mark at 4063 and take financial advantage!  Need BC tix stud or GA call Chris 273-9176 I need BC tix badly!  r'';;~;ONAL  DIET MAGIC! 30 lbs. 30 days. $30. Call (616)471-3970  
circularst. .. Begin NOW! ...FREE  •••PENN.PENN"PENN.PENN•••  Help! I need a BC GA or stud tix!  John x2763  Hey Niff  ••spring Break!•• Bahamas Cruise  
packet! SEYS, Dept. 100. Box  ••TiCKETS.TICKETS.TICKETs••  call Beth 3724  (+ 10 Meals) $279!  
4000, Cordova. TN 38018-4000.  Need 4 Penn State Tix  OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES  Panama City with kitchen $119  
I  Call Tom X3423  Cancun $429! Jamaica $479!  
HURRICANE, RECONSTRUCTION  NEED  ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif.  Daytona (kitchens) $149! KeyWest  
AND CLEANUP, MANY NEEDED.  4  2 BC GA's FOR SALE  I need as many  family can provide financial  $249! Prices increase 12/11/92!  
BOTH SKILLED & UNSKILLED,  PENN STATE  Robert at 287-9118  •• PENN STATE TICKETS..  security, excellent education and  1-800-678-6386  
MEN & WOMEN. HIGH WAGES,  GA'S  as you have!!  wonderful future for your baby.  
FOR INFO. CALL 615-779-5505  ..Call Tara #4766..  Please let us help you in this  RIDE NEEDED: Desperately need  
EXT. H541  CALL JEANNE AT 283-2645  difficult time. Confidential and legal.  ride to Milwaukee area this  
I still need BC student tix!  I am in desperate need of 2 Penn  Medical expenses paid. Collect  weekend,Nov. 6-8.Will pay  
BRIDGET'S IS HIRING MATURE  •••pENN•PENN.PENN.PENw••  Call Mike F. at 289-5563.  State GAs.  anytime. (818) 246-1763  gas.tolls.and $$.Call Dave at 3213.  
BOUNCERS. 271-0373 FOR APPT.  ••TICKETS.TICKETS.TICKETS••  Jim x4110  
I have 2 B.C. GA's 289-6052  CUT INTERRUPTIONS! GET THE  TO HAN & LElAH & CHEWIE  
Now Hiring Spring Break Reps!!!!  WORD OUT! Hotlines for faculty,  Thank you for the timely rescue  
For Panama City Beach. Greeks,  DESPERATELY NEEDED!!!!!!  NEED 1 PENN STATE GA  ONLY YOU CAN HELP ME!  student groups, teams, event­ from being sexually assaulted by  
Organizations, Individuals. Earn  2-4 STUDENT TIX FOR PENN  call Kim 1511  I NEED 2 PENN STATE GAS  sponsors only $10 month. Callers  RED HAIRED CHARLIE FROM 5TH  
Cash, Free Trips, & Experience. Call  STATE!  CALL PETE AT 273-1962  hear latest info. Local exchange.  FLOOR GRACE. May the force be  
Joe. Endless Summer 1-800-234­ My friends are poor but If you are  NEED many STUD B.C. TIX  Remote updating. Limited number  with you, and may it spay him. - 
7007.  nice and aren't planning on going  -call Bill -at 1104  available. Call277-8260, Ext. 22.  Medusa  
they would appreciate your help.  NEED 2 BC GA'S.  
HELP!  Call JON X3592.  Need BCTix  CALL CHRIS 1-419-882-7208.  WHAT MAKES YOU SO SPECIAL?  Echo,  
I NEED A FEW OF THOSE COOL  Gary x1624  Every year. $6 billion in college aid  Had a little run in with security, huh?  
NO/BUD T-SHIRTS IF U HAVE ANY  WE NEED BC STUD TIX BADLY!  Need 2 BC GA's  goes unclaimed. You qualify for  We loveya!  
4 SALE CALL MEGAN 4222  CALL KEV OR MIKE AT x1103  Help ME! The Junkman needs BC  Joe#1112  some of it. For $39.95, I guarantee  221-1+1  
GA's. Please call John at x2174.  to find at least 25 potential aid  
FOR RENT  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Needed:  HELP I need BC tickets PLEASE call 272­ sources based on your qualifications. Group discounts.  Mary O'Connor, Behave yourself.  
N E 1: D  PENN ST &  BC  Capitalist  1 8115  Call277-8260, Ext. 23.  If not. be careful.  
HOME BED & BREAKFAST  with  Remember....Big Brother knows all,  
AVAILABLE FOR PARENTS ON  WILi..  BEAT  B.C.  G.A'S  need 2 Penn stu tks -John 3648  ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif.  Big Brother sees all.  
WEEKENDS. 219-291-2899.  2 tixormore  family can provide financial  
ANY  INSANE  Jimmy x1946  HELP! Need 1 BC Ticket .  security, excellent education and  Need 2 BC GA's  
For rent: 1 room available -use of  ...Bless you  Call Usa 217-9129  wonderful future for your baby .  Call 4984 Will Pay Big Money  
all facilities -clean & safe  OFFER  Confidential and legal. Expenses  
neighborhood -close to campus ­ Need B.C. Stud. Tix-Bob 2002  I DESPERATELY Need ONE Penn  paid. Call Cyndi and AI collect  Szabo: Congrats on getting into  
$200 a month. Ask for Paul 232­ kyle  State Ticket. Either Student or GA.  anytime (805) 520-5978 or attorney  medical school, even if it's in New  
2794.  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  Please call Chris x4511  (818) 241-5535.  Jersy. I think you need to tip the  
234-9433  HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT  flask to that.  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  618-439-3338.  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  
219-291-7153  Information on semester,_year,  Smile Eileen O'Connor,  
Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call  I NEED ANY PENN STATE  graduate. summer and internship  your in The Observer  
2 room efficiency utilities paid $7 a  WILL BEAT  1-800-922-BEAR.  TICKETS! GA's or Student  programs in Australia. We represent  Don't worry, Study Queen,  
day 2880955  Call Rich x3367  28 Australian Universities. Call us  It's almost over.  
ANY INSANE OFFER  toll free 1-800-245-2575.  Live for November 18!!!  
Need to sublet  
trtle crk apt  GIVEACALL&TRY  ME  DO CONFLICTS PLAGUE YOUR  I know someone who wants home  
Call Damien x1870  I NEED 1 BC GA,  LIFE?  baked COOKIES!!  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  DAVE, x4506  Need two BC GA's, call Podge,  Come to the Mediation Exploration  
FOR SALE  I NEED 2 BC GA'S CALL WALLY  x4782  meeting at the esc to discuss the possibility of a Mediation Service on  Hey J.J. Boobsey-1 heard you've been working the personals scene  
X3443  NEED 2 BC GA'S  campus.  pretty well. Keep up the good work  
I week /2 person FLORIDA  -STEVE #2054­ Wednesday, Nov. 4 at 5:15  and maybe you'll find a really tall  
VACATION with CRUISE to  NEED GAs, Penn St, BC  dude.  
BAHAMAS. Best Offer 288-6811  x3593  California ALUM desperate for  N.D. Alum has B.C. GAs and is  Guaranteed Free Spring Break Trip  
Penn State GAs Top $. Pis lv mess.  looking to buy or trade for 2 Penn  To Bahamas or Panama City!  Marty the mechanic is a God!  
For Sale: United Airline transferable  I REALLY need 4 BC tickets!  ((  State GAs. Cal! (717) 697-2219  Cancun, Jamaica, Daytona. Keys!  
travel credits. Phone  Please call Jeff -3810  (415)597-2319  and ask for Tom or leave rnessage.  Sign-Up Before 12/11/92!  Rick, Paul, Chip-Dallas Cowboys­ 
259-0324.  Springbreak! 1-800-678-6386.  1993 Super Bowl champions!!!!!!  

r-------------------~-.-------~------------------------------~-----------~ --~~---------------------­

TRANSACTIONS NHL STANDINGS 
0 
HOCKEY National Hockey League 
BASEBALL PITTSBURGH PENGUINS­

WALES CONFERENCE Reinstated Jeff Chychrun, dofenseman, after a two­American League 
NEW YORK YANKEES-Traded Patrick Division 
game suspension.

Roberto Kelly, outlielder, to the Cincinnati Reds for w T Pts GF G<\ 
TAMPA BAY LIGHTNING-Acquired 
Paul O'Neill, outllelder, and Joe DeBerry, first 9 2 20 65 41
NI::W YUHK (AI-') "'"'111 '\f'ICJo.ut:no PrttsburghDave Capuano, center, and a fourth-round draft
baseman. Player, Team CP G A NY Rangers 8 4 1 17 54 4 4 
selection in the 1994 entry draft from tho 
TEXAS RANGERs-Named Claude PTS PIM New Jersey 7 5 0 14 42 43 
Vancouver Canucks lor Anatoll Semenov, center. 6 13 464 24
Osteen pitching coach. Lemieux, Pgh 12 18 20 NY Islanders 5 1 
American Hockey League 

National League 38 4 Philadelphia 3 7 3 9 5160 
PROVIDENCE BRUINs-Sent Jeff
PITTSBURGH PIRATES-Agreed to Stevens. Pgh 12 14 18 Washington 4 8 0 8 36 44 terms with Lloyd McClendon. outlleldor. on a two­Adams Division
Ricciardi, dolenseman, to Johnstown ol the East 
32 16
Coast Hockey League. 

year contraCI. LaFontaine, But 11 10 Montreal 8 3 2 18 57 45 
SOCCER

Soul horn Loag ue 20 30 19 Boston 7 2 1 15 51 32 
National Professional Soccer League
CHARLOTTE KNIGHTs-Named Gilmour. Tor 12 14 Quebec 7 3 1 15 51 38
8

BALTIMORE SPIRIT-Signed Mike
Pete Moore assistant general manager. 22 26 Bullalo 6 4 2 14 64 46 
Conway, Roberto Ascenzl and Billy Reinhardt. 
BASKETBALL Andreychuk, Bul 11 8 Hartford 3 8 0 6 30 47 
forwards, to one-year contraels. 

National Basketball Association 13 21 8 Ottawa 1 9 3 25 61 
CHICAGO POWER-Signed An
ATLANTA HAWKS-Waived Rodney Selanne, Wpg 12 11 9 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Wywrot, forward, and Albert Adade, defender.
Monroe and Elmer Bennett. gua•ds. and Dan 20 10 Norris Division 
CLEVELAND CRUNCH-Signed Mar1<o
Cyrulik, center. Sakic, Que 11 8 12 w L T Pts GF G<\ BOSTON CELTICs-Waived Darren Detroit 7 5 0 t4 49 44
Bartulovic, lorward-midlielder, to a one-year 
20 6 Morningstar. center, and Jason Reese. forward. Rocchi, Pha 13 8 12 Toronto 6 4 2 14 43 41 DALLAS MAVERICKS-Tony 20 18 Minnesota 6 5 1 13 43 45 Farmer, forward, and Mike Morrison. guard. Jagr, Pgh 12 6 14 St. LOUIS 5 6 11 43 50 GOLDEN STATE WARRIORs­
20 8 Waived Kevin Stevenson, guard. Turgeon. NYI 12 6 14 Ch1cago 4 
Tho Top Twenty Five 
teams in tho Associated Press 1992 college 5 11 45
HOUSTON ROCKETS-Waived 2 Tampa Bay 43
20 4
football poll, with first-place votes In parentheses, 8 9 43 43
Chancellor Nichois, lorward. Oates. Bos 10 4 16 Smythe Division
records through Oct. 31, total points based on 25
MILWAUKEE BUCKs-Waived Jim 20 6 Calgary 9
points lor a first place vote through one point for a 4 0 18 
54 38 25th place vote, and ranking In last week's poll: 7 4 1Farmer, guard. and Jawann Oldham, center. Kurrl, LA 12 7 12 Los Angelos 
15 5146 Record Pts Pvs 5 11 42 
MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES­19 2 Vancouver 5 1 
37

Waived Daren Engellant, center. Messier, NYR 12 6 13 Winnipeg
1. Washington (33 112) 8-0-0 1 ,520 1/22 4 9 0 8 45 54
NEW JERSEY NETS-Traded 19 14 Edmonton 3 8 I
2. Miami (27 112) -8D-O 1,514 1121 7 33 54Mool<ie Blaylock, guard, and Roy Hinson, forward. Savard, Mtl 12 4 15 San Jose 2
3. Alabama ( 1) 8-0-0 1 ,388 4 9 1 5 31 
56 4. Michigan 7-0-1 1,374 3ORLANDO MAGIC-Waived Dalmon 5. Texas A&M 8-0-0 1,283 5 Sundin. Que 11 9 9 New York Rangers 7, Buffalo 6. OT Sweet. guard. 18 6 Montreal 2, Winnipeg 1 
to tho Atlanta Hawl<s for Rumeal Robinson, guard. 19 14 Monday·s Games 
6. Florida St. 7-1-0 1,286 6
PHILADELPHIA 76ERS-Waived Jeff Muller, Mtl 312 15 Calgary 5, Vancouver 3 7. Nebraska 8-1-0 1,181 8
Ruland, center, and Michael Anderson, guard. 18 22 Tuesday's Games
8. Notre Dame 6-1-1 1 ,067 1 0 PHOENIX SUNS-Waived Frank 
9. Boston College 7-0-1 1 ,034 11 Francis, Pgh 12 2 16 Chicago vs. Washington at Indianapolis, 7:40p.m. 
Johnson. guard. and Bob Martin. center. 

18 4 Quebec at Hartford. 7:40 p.m. FOOTBALL 11. Southern Cal 5-1-1 949 13 Kvartalnov, Bos 10 10 New Yor1< Islanders at Pittsburgh, 7:40p.m. National Football League 17 4 St. Louts at Tampa Bay, 7:40p.m. 
10. Syracuse 7-1-0 1,013 12 
12. Arizona 5-2-1 767 17
ATLANTA FALCONS-Placed Chris Yzerman, Dot 12 
10 7 Ottawa at Edmonton, 9:40p.m. Miller, quarterback, on injured r8&8rve. Waived 17 2 Wednesday's Games
13. Kansas 7-1-0 764 18 
14. Florida 5-2-0 754 20
John Buddenberg, guard, and Fred Foggie, Roenick. Chi 12 8 9 Montreal at Detroh, 7:40p.m. 
15. Georgia 7-2-0 739 7cornerback, from the practice squad. ACiivated Joe 
17 16 Philadelphia at Now Yor1< Rangers. 7:40p.m. Fishback. safety, from the praellce squad. Juneau. Bos 10 5 12 Calgary at Vancouver. 10:40 p.m. 
16. Colorado 6-1-1 596 8 
17. N. Carolina St. 6-2-1 499 21
CINCINNATI BENGALS-Signed 4
17

18. North Carolina 7-2-0 477 22Richard Isaiah, wide receiver, to the praellco 19. Mississippi St. 6-2-0 385 24squad. Waived Mike Barber. wide receiver. 
20. Texas 5-2-0 324 25HOUSTON OILERS-Waived Reggie 21. Stanford 6-3-0 301 15Slack, quarterback, from tho physically ·unable to 22. Ohio St. 6-2-0 221perform list. 
23. Penn St. 6-3-0 211 14NEW ORLEANS SAINTs-Placed 24. Tennessee 5-3-0 114 16Tyrone Legette, cornerback, on Injured r8&8rve. 
25. Washington St. 6-2-0 108 19Re-signed Cedric Mack, cornerback. 
Others receiving votes: Hawaii 86, VIrginia 76, NEW YORK GIANTS-Placed Mar1< Georgia Tech 74, Mississippi 16, San Diego State Ingram, wide receiver, on Injured reserve. 
14, Brigham Young 8, Memphis State 6, BowlingPITTSBURGH STEELERS­Green 4, California 4, Wake Forest4, West VirginiaActi'lated Ariel Solomon, offensive lineman, from 
4. Southern Mlssissippl3. Oregon 1.
injured reserve. Waived Dean Caliguire. offensive lineman. 


~ay: 
7--9 FREE PIZZA 
9~2 Travel around the world 
Thursday: 9--2 Start your weekend off right 
must be 21 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------------­
Wednesday, November 4, 1992 The Observer page 13 
-~

Karros and Kelly the big names in baseball news 
Dodgers first baseman named top rookie 
NEW YORK (AP) -Eric Kar­run total was the highest by a ros, who nearly played his way Dodgers rookie since Greg out of the Los Angeles Dodgers Brock also hit 20 in 1983, and organization, was selected the his RBis surpassed Ron Cey's National League Rookie of the Los Angeles rookie record of 80 Year on Tuesday. set in 1973. Karros also led all 
The husky Los Angeles first rookies this season with 30 baseman was chosen first on 22 doubles. of the 24 ballots and received "1 wasn't surprised but I'm 116 points overall from the definitely happy," said Karros. Baseball Writers Association of "It's been something that's been America. Montreal outfielder talked about the last few Moises Alou was the runner-up months and it's finally done. It with 30 points, followed by reflects the season I had, but I'd Pittsburgh knuckleballer Tim exchange it for our club to have Wakefield with two first-place been in a pennant race." votes and 29 points. Karros' spot on the Dodgers' 
Karros hit .257 with 20 was no sure thing entering homers and 88 RBis. His home spring training. 

"We talked about sending him out," Dodgers manager Tom Lasorda said of Karros. "But we decided to keep him because he worked so hard in spring training that he deserved to come with us." 
After getting one hit in 14 at-bats for the Dodgers at the end of the 1991 season, Karros went to winter ball in Caracas, Venezuela, instead of complet­ing the 16 credits left on his economics degree at UCLA. It almost backfired. 
Karros hit .113 with six RBis and no extra-base hits in Venezuela before turning things around in the spring. 

IDENTIFIED AS DON REESE 
For more information and a close up look at him, purchase your tickets to see him perform at Washington Hall on November 6th at 8:00 p.m. General Admission Tickets are on sale now at the LaFortune Information Desk for only $3. 
A grounded Eagle and a listless offense highlight this week's pro football notes 
•PHILADELPHIA-Slumping Philadelphia Eagles quarter­back Randall Cunningham has been benched in favor of backup Jim McMahon for Sun­day's game against the Los An­geles Raiders. 
But even as the move was an­nounced, it was characterized as a temporary measure. 
"I don't want you to think that this is going to be a week-to­week deal or anything like that," Eagles coach Rich Kotite said Monday. He said McMahon will start Sunday, but Cunning­ham will return when the team plays Green Bay the following week. 
He said he benched Cunning­ham because "I want to back him off for a week," adding he wants the quarterback to "take 
Yankees star goes to Reds 
CINCINNATI (AP) -All-Star outfielder Roberto Kelly was traded by the New York Yan­kees on Tuesday to the Cincin­nati Reds for outfielder Paul O'Neill and minor-league first baseman Joe DeBerry. 
Kelly, 28, has a .280 batting average for his six years in the major leagues. He hit .272 in 152 games for the Yankees this year, with 31 doubles, 10 home runs, 66 RBis and 28 stolen bases. He started 99 games in center field and 4 7 games in left field. 
"I feel this is a good move for both teams," new Reds general manager Jim Bowden said. 
"We are very pleased to ac­quire such a multi-talented player. Roberto hits for both average and power, and he runs, fields and throws very well. " 
O'Neill, 29, has played his en­tire career in the Cincinnati or­ganization. The Reds were dis­appointed in his production this season, when he batted .246 with 19 doubles, 14 homers, 66 RBis and six stolen bases in 148 games. 
"I was shocked a little bit," said O'Neill, who will make $3.5 million in 1993 and 1994. "I've played in Cincinnati for the last five years. 
some of the pressure off him­self, and that's why I did it." 
Even if McMahon has a great game against the Raiders, Cunningham will return to the starting role, Kotite said. "He's our quarterback." 
In reaction, Cunningham said, "If he thinks a week off will help me, he doesn't know me as well as I thought he knew me." 
.FOXBORO, Mass. -Forget about wondering when the New England Patriots will win again. When will their offense score again? 
The offense was pointless in last Sunday's 16-7 loss at Buf­falo, and the team is winless midway through the season. Next up is New Orleans, with one of the NFL's stingiest de­fenses. 
The Patriots have no rushing touchdowns and only 10 by passing. They have 87 points in eight games, which projects to the second-lowest non-strike total in their 33-year history, even lower than the 181 they scored when they went 1-15 in 1990. 
"It's hard to score points on any defense in this league," quarterback Tommy Hodson said. "We have to continue to be optimistic and think we can do it, and I think we can." 
There is, however, cause for pessimism: 
-The Patriots are using their backup quarterback, Hodson, because Hugh Millen is side­lined with a separated left shoulder which should keep him out of his second straight game Sunday. 
-Left tackle Bruce Arm­stron-g, who went to the Pro Bowl the past two seasons, is out for the year with a knee in­jury suffered at Buffalo. 
-The 196 yards the Patriots squeezed out against the Bills was their lowest output of the season. Now they must face the Saints, who gave up 154 yards to Tampa Bay last Sunday and are third in fewest points al­lowed, an average of 12.9 per game. 
The Patriots defense held Buffalo to 288 yards and scored the team's only touchdown. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
... 


Soccer 
continued from 16 
of the program. Petrucelli also lead his young team to five straight wins to end the season, never allowing his team to let up despite the dimming chances of receiving a tourna­ment bid as the season neared its end. 

The strong finish and the win over Wisconsin will be seen as the bright spots of 1992, but the year should also be re­membered as Petrucelli's fmest. The thirty-year old coach took a young team, unsure of itself, and installed a confidence which will bring success in the years to come. 
"Chris has the program headed in the right direction," Duke coach Bill Hempen. "He has done a wonderful job in the few years he's been there, and I look for that success to con­tinue." 
"I think he's the best coach in the country," said Jarc. "and I will argue that with anyone." 
If Petrucelli continues to do what he did this season, no one will want to argue. 

r 
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, November 4, 1992 
Men's lnterhall football playoffs down to final four 

By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Sports Writer 
IH Football reached its final four after last weekend's playoff action, which saw Alumni advance to a rematch against Zahm and Keenan win to earn another bid to topple Planner. Due to the driving rain and windy conditions that were present for last Sunday's con­tests, the scores from the first round were particularly low, as defense and the kicking game played major roles in most of the games. 
Flanner 12 Carroll 0 
Undefeated Planner, the top seed from the Gold division, routed Carroll on the merits of a powerful running game and a strong defense. The Planner offense was able to score the 

-most points of any team in the first round through the efforts of tailbacks Jake Cervantes and Mike Thompson. 
• Rugby continued from 16 
an attainable goal." 
"The Wisconsin game should be a close one and it could go either way. Ideally, we'd like to win big to allow some of the non-starters to see some ac­tion." 
If the Irish win this weekend's regional they will advance to the national final four in Houston next Spring, capping off a successful Fall campaign. 
"This year's team has been particularly successful and good to work with," said Colonel John Stevens, the club's faculty advisor. "Notre Dame can be proud of the image this squad has maintained." 

Cervantes broke free on a 40­yard touchdown run for the game's first score, and Thomp­son enabled Planner's ball­control offense to march down the field on the second scoring drive. This drive was capped by a touchdown pass from Tim Kusserow to captain "Too" Keller on the only pass Planner attempted all game. 
The Planner defense was also extremely successful, forcing three Carroll turnovers, includ­ing an interception by Jack McCloud and a fumble recovery by Marty Phalen. Planner will face Keenan next weekend, hoping to avenge a loss in last year's playoffs. 
Keenan 6 Cavanaugh 0 (OT) 
Keenan, the league's defend­ing champion, handed Ca­vanaugh its first loss of the sea­son in a game plagued by turnovers. After neither team was able to seriously threaten 
The Department of Music Presents 
'JKE NoTRE :0..-tn£ U.N'LVERS'LTY ORCKESTR.A 
' j 
:f"ALL CONCERT 
,..,~tc' 
with faculty guest soloist 
C:H'l{JSTI'J!/:J-'.l(U'TLT.tiXj'E, o/Iou 
Music of 
GABRIEL! ROSSINI STAMITZ HAYON 
Thursday, November 5, 1992 . 8:15p.m. 
The Castle &Co. Is Your New Wolf Tanning Center 
featuring: 

• 
New Woll Tanning Beds • Luxurious, Clean Private Rooms 

• 
Facial Tanners • Stereo & Body Cooling With Every Lounge. 


272-0312 
The Castle 
State Rd. 23 & Ironwood, Suite 1 A Closed Monda Minutes From Campus 

Volleyball crushes Michigan in 3 games 
By DAN PIER Sports Writer 

Defense has been the key to the Notre Dame volleyball team's success all season. Last night was no exception, as a scrambling defense carried the team to a 15-9, 17-15, 15-12 victory over Michigan at the JACC. The Irish came up with 67 digs and a season-high 18 team blocks to hold Michigan to a slim .146 hitting percentage. 
"Notre Dame played really well when they played like tra­ditional Debbie Brown-coached teams," said Michigan head coach Greg Giovanazzi. "When they had great defense, great coverage, and went after balls, it was their best volleybaJI of the night." 
Giovanazzi had in mind a key stretch in the second game when Notre Dame came back from a big deficit. The Irish jumped out on top in that set 6­1, but Michigan charged back to a 13-7 lead. At that point, the Irish defense got tough, scrapping to save several ap­parently lost points and coming up with four block kills en route to a 10-2 run to win the game. 
"We really scrambled late in the second game and picked up our defense," Notre Dame head coach Debbie Brown com­mented. "I think Michigan got back into the match because we weren't playing good defense." 
The third game witnessed no large momentum swings, re­maining close all the way until 12-12. There, Notre Dame took over with three block kills and three offensive kills. Two of those kills came by Marilyn Cragin, who produced 14 kills with just one error in 22 at­tempts for the match. It was Cragin's second straight match with a hitting percentage over .500. 
Michigan was hampered by the absence of two starters due to illness and injury. Gio­vanazzi moved Aimee Smith to an unfamiliar outside hitter po­sition where she filled in ably, but the Wolverines felt the ef­fects of the change. 
"It's just hard to play with people in different positions," Brown said. "It's not the way they are used to playing." 
Notre Dame (22-5) kept on track to gain an NCAA tourna­ment berth, which is expected if the team can maintain or im­prove upon its current rank­ings, 21st in the nation and 4th in the NCAA Mideast region. Michigan (16-8) must improve its 9th regional ranking to reach its goal of a tournament bid. 
0-C squad. 
In what Alumni coach Paul Zachlin termed "a total defen­sive struggle," the two teams did not threaten to score in regulation, forcing the game into overtime. Alumni was held to one first down by the Tom Pitstick/Matt Carr-led 0-C defense which did not allow a touchdown all season. 
0-C was able to move the ball a bit better, but coach Keith McKeon lamented his team's miscues that cost them the op­portunity to score. However, he was quick to note how hard his team had played all year, terming it a successful season with a disappointing conclusion. 
0-C started with the ball in overtime, but missed a field goal wide left, opening the way for Volker Blankenstein to win the game with a 27-yard field goal on Alumni's first play from scrimmage in the extra period. 

in regulation time, the game moved to overtime, following a format that is used in many high school playoff games. 
After a coin toss, one team is given the ball at its opponent's 10-yard line and has four downs to score. Regardless of whether this first team scores, the other team gets the ball under the same conditions at the first team's ten and must try to tie or win. If after this the score is still tied, the procedure is repeated. 
Cavanaugh got the ball first, but on its second play turned the ball over on a fumble. Keenan then took over on the Cavanaugh ten, and after a run up the middle on first down, Jim Wolf took a pitch, broke to the outside, and dove in from the four for the game-winning touchdown. 
Keenan, which lost to Planner in the season's first week, has not allowed any points since, and should prove to be a strong challenge to Planner's previously unstoppable ground game. 
Zahm 3 Dillon 0 
Zahm remained undefeated and advanced to a rematch against Alumni on the strength of its defense and the leg of kicker Scott Ecker. 
With five seconds remaining before the half, Ecker booted a 37-yard field goal despite the adverse weather conditions in what would prove to be the game's only points. 
Zahm's defense held on for the victory late in the game, forcing the driving Dillon of­fense to turn the ball over on downs at the Zahm 25 yard line. 
Alumni 3 Off-Campus 0 (OT) 
Alumni continued its winning streak and earned a chance to repay Zahm for its only loss of the season by defeating a strong 

MCAT 
ON NOVEMBER 5TH AT 6:30 TO 10:00 PM THERE WILL BE A MOCK MCAT GIVEN IN THE NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ROOM 127. TO SIGN-UP FOR THIS TEST, CALL FR. WALTER AT x.6675 OR VISIT THE PRE-PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. THIS TEST WILL BE ANALYZED BY COMPUTER AND THE RESULTS MAY BE PICKED UP IN THE PRE-PROFESSIONAL OFFICE TWO WEEKS AFTER THE TEST. 
-

Today 
Wednesday,••November 4, 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S ••page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

Today's Soecial; 
1 Large 
Thin...crust Pizza 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
BILL WATTERSON 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Gorby's turndown
1 Captures 35 Williams athlete 5 Fissure 36 Give a farewell 9 Salten's deer performance?
14 Biblical trader 39 Elijah15 Saddam Muhammad'sHussein's land: originalVar. 
surname16 Wide-awake 41 This may be thin 17 Afterward 42 "The Wreck of 18 Church 

the Mary-"

schedule 43 Work out all the 19 Navigators bugs?
Islands, today 20 Frocks for 
46 Diarist Ana·is­

locks? 23 Symbol of 47 Where the wisdom 
Rhone and Sa6ne meet

24 Devoid of fluid 25 Unmannered 
48 A minute after type 
12:59 

27 Double play? 49 Plumbing tools 30 Patriotic erg. 51 A-aardvark 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
53 Adventure 54 Ind. neighbor 5& Officers' club? &2 Leg bone 64 Others, to Ovid &5 Breeding place 
for 25 Across? 66 Threw, aIa 
David &7 Kill a bill 68 Its captain 
wanted fleece &9-Semple 
McPherson 70A.D.C., for one 71 Cleansing 
solutions 
DOWN 
1 Actress Howland 2 Former court 
star 3 Earth goddess 4 Cherry-topped 
concoction 5 Abbott-Costello 
film & Miscalculated 7 Passing fancies 8 Part of Ali's rec. 9-profundo 
saves dough? 12 The-, Dick Tracy foe 13 Letters like this: Abbr. 21 Bureau section 
27 Drive back 45 His works are 57 Coffee, to some 


the "Cats" sa Corrida cheers 
meow 59 Ind. city 
so Type of drum 
60 Exhort 52 P.R. man's 
&1 "Dukes of 

concern 
Hazzard" 53 Southern dish lawman 54"-boy!" 63 Leon's last 55 Caron flick name? 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

28 Resin used as an adhesive 
29 This contains the pick of pix 
30Cod trap 
31 City of Uttar Pradesh 33 High n,est 34 New Kids fans, mostly 
37 Futile 
38 City on Fyn Island 40 Looking glass? 44 Leonardo's lady 
Call Now ND 271 ..0300 SMC 289..0033 

MEIU 
Notre Dame Cheese Sticks with 
Marinara Sauce Marin!lte~ Flank Steak ;:;,,, San Grlnecl 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers cany less than $20. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. © 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
Saint Mary's 
Veal Pannesan Manicotti ·.·Carved Turkey 
, "The Dissertation Process." 
IMilfntg;omery Theater, Laflottu:ne.Student Center. Part of Pr<JfeiSSl•tlnc'll OevelopnHrlit Wotkshops sponsored hv,••:th.AJ 
-

r 
-Sports 
page 16 Wednesday, November 4, 1992 
• 
-
GEORGE 
Men's cross-country wins conference 
DOHRMANN 

By SEAN SULLIVAN said All­
McWilliams and Sports Writer American Mike ended up McWilliams. running with 
The Jock Strip 

Notre Dame returns to its "We ran well as them for a good winning ways, as the twelfth-a team." portion of the1---W-O_m_e_n_'S_S_O_C_C_e_r--f ranked Irish men's cross T h e race. 
narrOWly miSSeS 
• "t
tournament lnVI e 
Last Monday Chris Petrucelli sat in 
his office reflecting on the season that 
just ended, his third as Notre Dame's 
women's soccer coach. Earlier that 
morning, the NCAA committee 
announced that the 15th-ranked Irish 
would not be among the twelve teams 
invited to postseason play. 
For the second straight year 
Petrucelli missed achieving the goal he 
set when he came to Notre Dame from 
Old Dominion in 1990. Last season a 
season ending game to Central Florida 
halted Notre Dame's path to the 
tournament. 
"When coach came here, he told us 
we were going to win the national 
championship," said graduating senior 
captain Margaret Jarc. "He said, 
'Maybe not this year, qr the in the next 
few years, but Notre Dame we will win 
it.' " 
This probably wasn't the year 
Petrucelli was talking about, but it 
definitely was a year that his team 
would make its mark on the national 
scene. A good blend of returning 
veterans and anxious newcomers made 
this year's team the most talented Irish 
women's team ever. The preseason 
polls placed Petrucelli's squad at 18th 
and a opening date with fifth-ranked 
N.C. State loomed as the perfect opportunity for Notre Dame and Petrucelli to leave a lasting impression. 
Petrucelli and company were denied 
that opportunity before it even arrived. 
Injuries to senior starters Jarc, 
Michelle Lodyga, and last season's 
leading scorer Stephanie Porter forced 
Notre Dame's coach to turn to youth 
against the experienced Wolfpack. 
Five freshmen and four sophomores 
started in the 4-3 loss, the three goals 
coming from Rosella Guerrero in her 
first collegiate game. The game started 
a horrible trend for Notre Dame, as it 
was the first of many games it would 
win on the field but lose in the score­
board. 
Notre Dame probably lost its chance 
at an NCAA bid in the later part of 
September when it dropped back-to­
hack games to then fifth-ranked 
Portland and 14th-ranked Duke by 
identical 2-1 scores. Both games frus­
trated Petrucelli as he watched his 
team fall in games that they deserved 
to win. 
"I just don't think we know how good 
we really are," he said after the second 
loss to Portland. "We played well 
enough to win both games and we 
didn't." 
Nothing could be more frustrating for 
a coach then to lose games it should 
have won. But Petrucelli remained 
patient with his young team, screaming 
encouragement with every mistake and 
mountains of praise for each 
accomplishment. 
His work paid off two games after the loss to Portland when Notre Dame beat 13th-ranked Wisconsin for its first win over a ranked opponent in the history 
see SOCCER/page 13 
'=iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
• 
INSIDE SPORTS 


country team won the performance of 
When it was Midwestern Conference the day was over the fresh­from Irish man had placed
Championships this past
Saturday in Cincinnati. Notre harrier Derek fifth in the meet Dame beat the entire field of Seiling. Seiling, and fourth on nine teams by over 41 points, a freshman the Notre Dame with LaSalle placing second f r o m team, finishing and Loyola at third. Pennsylvania Mike McWilliams only 18 seconds 
The Irish front line of John ran well behind the lead Coyle, Mike McWilliams, and against Oregon, but came pack with a time of 25:08. Nate Ruder won the race fin­through in a big way on After the race Seiling was ishing together with a time of Saturday. Seiling just named the 1992 MCC 
24:50. strarted out trying to keep Newcomer of the Year. 
"The MCC's were an im­pace with the All-Americans "Seiling's performance was provement on the last race," John Coyle and Mike no surprise," says Irish head 
Rugby wins two, advances to national sweet sixteen 
By.RIAN AKEY regional final tournament in Bowling Sports Writer Green, OH. The Irish advanced to the sweet sixteen after two wins last The Notre Dame rugby team has high weekend, dropping Central Michigan 10­hopes as it prepares for this weekend's 0 and drubbing host Bowling Green 22-0. 

The Observer/Jake Peters The Notre Dame rugby team practices in preparation for their next game in the national tournament. With two wins last weekend, they have advanced into the sweet sixteen. 
coach Joe Piane. "He was fifth runner for us in Oregon and has been running well all season." 
Seiling attributes much of his victory to the support he has received from veteran runner Mike McWilliams. "Mike has really been instrumental in my sticking with the lead pack." 
Coming off this strong victory Notre Dame looks towards the District Meet. The Districts are the qualifying meet for the Na­tional Championships. McWilliams is hopeful that "If we pull one or two more things together we'll be in great shape for Districts." 

The Central Michigan contest saw the Irish face a host of external factors en route to victory. 
"We had just gotten off the bus, and we came out very flat into some adverse weather conditions," said club president Mark Babka. "But we pulled together and were able to come away with a victory." 
Pulling together was also an important factor in the Bowling Green match, as the Irish upset a squad who had already beaten them 30-5 in September. 
''I'm very happy with our match against Bowling Green. They're a team who would have exploited any letdowns," commented j3abka. "Fortunately, we did not have any-physically or mentally." 
"The game really displayed our discipline," noted senior council member Dan McNeive. "I'm especially proud of the way we maintained our composure. When Bowling Green got behind, they began coming at us with some cheap shots, but we channeled our aggression and focused on the game." 
Babka was also impressed with the play of junior Jamie Hill. 
"Jamie stepped into the loose forward position in place of one of our senior leaders, Eric Poley. The team gave up nothing in the transition." 
Notre Dame hopes to continue its stellar play as it returns to Bowling Green this weekend for the regional finals. The Irish open play Saturday against Wisconsin, and if victorious, will face the Purdue vs. Cincinnati winner: 
"Our team's goal is to win the Midwest," said Babka. "Last year we placed third in the region, but this year we would like to move up a notch. It is 
see RUGBY/page 14 

BP-Knott showdown highlights interhall playoffs 
By HEATHER WILEY Sports Writer 
The girls interhall football playoffs began with some even matchups and a close game between Breen-Phillips and Knott. 
BP had been working especially hard on the extra point after losing to Badin 13-12 in a game earlier this season. Practice paid off on Monday, with BP managing to convert both points and giving them the winning margin, 14-13, over Knott. 
Both Carly Yezzi and Paula Black scored the touchdowns for Knott, with Black's contribution coming on an interception and return. Karen Weigert also turned in a strong game for Knott 
with an interception and a couple of long 
catches that helped Knott to really move the ball. 
For BP, Wendy Mores turned in the first TD and Gail Mulligan scored the other. Rachael Downey turned in one of the extra points and had a good all­around game. Also contributing to the BP win was quarterback Kim Smith and nose-guard Christa Lopiccolo, who picked off a pass to preserve the victory. BP will face Walsh on Sunday at 5 p.m. 
Walsh 6 Badin 0 
Walsh topped Badin to continue in the playoffs this Sunday against BP at 5 p.m. Badin spent a good part of the game in Walsh's end of the field, but were unable to convert. Jill Satanek caught a pass in the last second of the game and ap­peared to be in the endzone, but a flag was thrown at the one-yard line and Badin was not given the score. 
Turning in strong games and strong seasons were Amy Krattenmaker, Allison Meriaux, Krista Milburn, Aurelie Gal­lagher, and Jill Satanek. 
Siegfried 25 PW 7 
Siegfried soundly defeated PW Sunday night for the second-straight time. On the first drive, a 24-yard pass from Marcie McNeil set up the first of her three touchdown passes. The Siegfried sophomore has had an exceptional season, racking up eleven touchdown passes and four TD runs. Priss Peralta scored the first of Siegfried's touchdowns, with Jo Ellen Shannon and Bobby Jean Schleifer turning in two more. 
Defensively, the Slammers were strong, highlighted by an interception by Margaret Zimmerman that she carried for 33 yards, setting up their fourth touchdown. Siegfried seniors Suzanne Juster and Angie Luzio have had banner seasons combining for six touchdown passes, one touchdown run, and five extra points. Siegfried will face Lewis this Sunday at 4 p.m. 
For PW, Kristi Lewis had a touchdown pass in the endzone and an extra point conversion. Defensively, Heather Hughes racked up a sack and senior Christy Cook and junior Jenny Marten also had a strong season. 
Lewis 19 Lyons 12 

Lyons offense got off to a slow start Sunday against the Lewis Chickens, being unable to score until the second half when Wendy Holthaus gave Lyons a touchdown on a 40-yard run after a fake reverse play. Melissa Cook also had a touchdown, but Lyons was unable to convert on either of the point-after attempts. Turning in strong games were freshman quarterback Julie Byrd, sophomore tight end Shannon Sheedy and senior defensive captain Christy Kavanaugh. 
Noticeably missing on Lyons defense was linebacker Cristina Kerger who was unable to make the game, but led the team throughout the season. "I was happy with our play this season. We showed great improvement over last year's record of 1-5," commented coach Rich Carrigan. Lewis will play Siegfried this Sunday at 4 p.m. 



