
1&21092 SESQUICENfENNIAL 
VOL. XXIV NO. 88 
Venezuelan coup collapses; Reports say 70 people dead 

CARACAS, Venezuela (AP) Loyal soldiers repulsed an attack by rebel troops and tanks on the presidential palace Tuesday, crushing an attempt to topple one of Latin America's most stable democracies. 
El Nacional newspaper reported that 70 people were killed in the early morning attack, but the government gave no casualty figures. Government forces arrested 300 rebel soldiers as the rebellion against President Carlos Andres Perez quickly collapsed. 
By Tuesday afternoon, Defense Minister Fernando Ochoa said loyal troops had "completely suffocated" the rebels, who had earlier abducted a state governor and staged attacks in the western cities of Maracay. Valencia and Maracaibo. 
Witnesses said loyal F-16 fighter pilots filed on rebellious troops from the Paramacuay Armored Brigade in Valencia, 100 miles west of Caracas. 
Ochoa said four leaders of a rebel paratroop regiment were among those arrested, including Lt. Col. Hugo Chavez, who in a TV address urged fellow fighters to surrender "before more blood is shed." 
Another detained coup leader, Lt. Col. Francisco Arias, said the rebels sought to "rescue the Venezuelan people from politicians, from demagoguery and bureaucracy." 
The coup attempt followed violent protests and labor unrest arising from a growing disparity between rich and poor in Venezuela. 




eObserver 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
The government of this oilrich nation, an OPEC member, has admitted that just 57 percent of Venezuelans are able to afford more than one meal a day. 
A border dispute with Colombia has created tension between Perez and the military, which opposes giving Colombia rights to the oil-and mineral-rich Gulf of Venezuela. 
Soldiers, like many others in the country, have seen their wages shrink dramatically because of inflation. 
Arias said rebels chose Feb. 4 for the uprising to mark the birthday of Venezuelan hero Antonio Jose de Sure, the sec-
Congress extends benefits for jobless 
WASHINGTON (AP) Congress voted overwhelmingly Tuesday for a new 13-week extension of unemployment benefits, its first salvo of the year aimed at boosting the sagging economy. 
"We are delighted that Congress acted so quickly," said White House spokeswoman Judy Smith. "We are anxious to get the bill so we can get the benefits to people in need." 
Separately, the battle over curing the recession flared anew as Bush's top economic advisers warned Democrats against their plans for a broad tax cut financed by higher taxes on the wealthy. 
The House approved the $2.7 billion expansion of jobless coverage by a one-sided 404-8 margin. Senate passage came shortly afterward on a 94-2 vote. 
The avalanche of support came with members of both parties convinced the public would not tolerate a replay of last year's four-month partisan battle over new benefits. 
They were also aware that there could be no more embarrassing way to begin the election year than by ignoring the 600,000 jobless Americans ex
 Bush in Orlando/ page 6 
pected to deplete their benefits in the last two weeks of February. 
"In talking to citizens on the Northwest side of Chicago, there is no higher priority, no larger concern than job security," said Rep. Dan Rostenkowski, D-Ill., a sponsor of the measure. 
"Politics should be set aside in the best interests of the country," said House Minority Leader Robert Michel, R-Ill. 
In the Senate, acknowledgement of the need for the extra benefits also crossed party lines. 
"The unemployed need it, the state of the economy demands it," said Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, DTexas. 
"We're not much better off than we were six months ago," Sen. Bob Packwood, R-Ore., said during the Senate's debate. "This is the only thing to do." 
But the bipartisan harmony masked the larger battle just beginning between Bush and congressional Democrats over their competing plans to help 
see CONGRESS I page 6 
ond-in-command in Simon Bolivar's war against Spanish rule in the early 19th century. 
Sen. David Morales Bello, an ally of Perez, said in Congress that three of Perez' bodyguards were killed in the palace attack. Perez, with an aide, escaped hidden under an overcoat and managed to get to a private television station, according to news accounts. 
From there, Perez telephoned Ochoa and told him: "No negotiations. Give them bullets. I want to be back in (the palace) soon," according to an account in El Nacional newspaper. 
Six hours later, the 69-yearold Perez, a leading democrat in the hemisphere, declared from the palace that he had beat back the first coup attempt in Venezuela since the early 1960s. 
The government banned public demonstrations, broadened police arrest powers and suspended some constitutional civil rights guarantees for at least 10 days. 
The United States, Mexico, Brazil, Cuba, the Organization of American States and the European Community condemned the coup attempt. Venezuela has the second longest-standing democracy in South America, following Colombia. 
President Bush, a strong ally of Perez who took office about the same time three years ago, called the attempted overthrow an "outrageous, illegal military coup" against "one of the great 
Magnolias."
see COUP I page 4 
The Observer/Kristina Roderick 
Love is in the air 


Walsh freshman Kim Massman makes herself beautiful for a dress rehearsal of Lewis Hall's coming-weekend production of "Steel 
(left to right) Freshmen Anne O'Connor and Stephanie McCann help Cupid in making the Valentine season festive. 
HPC delays vote on amendment 
By CATHY FLYNN 
News Writer 
Hall Presidents Council (HPC) 
agreed again to put off formal 
discussion of an amendment to 
their charter which addresses 
concerns about the "gag-rule" 
provision of the new legislation. 
The amendment to Article 1, 
section 3 of the charter states 
that "at no time may members 
of the HPC accept resolutions 
discouraging, prohibiting or 
restricting members from 
publicly discussing the contents 
of any meeting, special session, 
committee or subcommittee of 
the HPC." 
St. Edward's Hall President Robert Pritchard reintroduced the amendment after a two 
week hiatus of its debate. 
"If we all agree not to talk about something, then that is one thing," Pritchard said. "The group shouldn't be able to silence anyone in the organization," he added. 
Council members agreed to discuss the amendment in their hall council meetings this week. HPC will address the issue again after these meetings. 
see HPC I page 4 
page 2 Wednesday, February 5, 1992 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Voters should 
stick to the 
real issues 
In the past couple of 
weeks the presidential 
campaign has drifted 
away from what the 
majority of Americans 
claimed they wanted-a 
campaign on the issues. 
The reason for this is Mike Scrudato 

the story run by Star Sports Copy 
magazine, a supermarket ___E_d_i_to_r__ 
tabloid, accusing the 
Democratic front-runner, Bill Clinton, of 
having a 12 year love affair with Gennifer 
Flowers. 
Flowers, a cabaret singer, was reportedly 
paid $40, 000 by the Star to reveal her story 
to the public. I find it ironic that Flowers just 
now came forward with this accusation with 
Clinton as a presidential candidate, instead of 
when he was simply the governor of 
Arkansas. 
Another thing that bothers me about the 
entire affair is the gullibility of the media and 
the public. We are living in the midst of a 
recession that is not going away as quickly or 
as easily as people predicted it would, and 
our current government is not providing us 
with any concrete solutions. George Bush's 
only answers are to stay the course and 
Japan-bashing. 
Clinton has laid out a plan to help the country get out of its economic woes and was looking like a serious threat to President Bush until the Star printed Flowers' accusations. 
Her story is filled with holes that have yet to 
be patched up, such as meetings with Clinton 
in hotels that did not exist and talking to him 
in places when he was not there. I guess some 
people would say anything for money. 
It is scary that this story is being taken seriously by the American public. It was published in a magazine that ran the exclusives, "FOUND! Ted Danson's forgotten first wife" and "I was Stevie Wonder's secret lover for 24 years" in the same issue as the Flowers story. 
What's next? Is Peter Jennings going to start doing features on aliens from Jupiter that look like Elvis on ABC's World News Tonight? 
I think it is time for voters to smarten up and stop believing unsubstantiated stories in magazines that also tell us how we can lose 40 pounds as easily as Roseanne Barr did. 
It is time for voters to start looking at the issues. This entire matter should be overlooked because of its incredibility and irrelevance to politics. The fact is that Bill Clinton has provided the American people with some answers, which is a rarity amongst American politicians. 
When the voters go to the polls this year. they should do what Americans have done in the past when questions about the private lives of Franklin Roosevelt, Dwight Eisenhower, and John F. Kennedy were raised, ignore them. 
Unfounded rumors about a candidate's private life should not be taken into account when it comes to running the country. 
The American public should listen to what it was saying when the campaign started and stick to the issues. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff  
Production  News  
Lisa Bourdon  Paul Pearson  
Kristin Lynch  Becky Barnes  
Sports  Graphics  
Mike Scrudato  Brendan Regan  
Accent  VIewpoint  
Patrick Moran  Rich Riley  
Paige Smoron  
Systems  Lab Tech.  
Patrick Barth  David Lee  
Mike Murphy  

The Observer (USPS 599 24000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WORLD 
The show goes on at Moscow circus 
MOSCOW -Backstage in a dingy kitchen at the Moscow State Circus, animal trainer Zhanna Mayorova stands over a stove, lovingly stirring a pot of chicken soup with boiled onions and potatoes for her dogs. "Of course they would prefer just meat," she says, prodding the grayish bird as it simmered in an enamel pot. "But what can you do?"Shortages, lack of space and bad equipment are daily fare at Moscow's oldest circus -one of two permanently based in the capital -but performers and keepers try to make the animals as comfortable as possible. With 45 packed performances every month, the state-run circus is still going strong. But its management wants to negotiate with the government to make it privately-owned, officials say. 
NATIONAL 
John Sununu to host talk show 
NEW YORK -John Sununu, President Bush's former chief of staff, was named Tuesday to fill in on CNN's "Crossfire" for the man who is challenging Bush in New Hampshire's GOP presidential primary. Sununu, who resigned as chief of staff in December after controversy over his abrasive style and use of government planes for personal business, will start 

filling in for Patrick Buchanan on March 2, CNN said. He will be the conservative counterpart to liberal Michael 
OF INTEREST 
 
All Interested in participating in service projects within the Hispanic community are invited to attend an organizational meeting at 4 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, 2nd Floor, LaFortune. For information call Laura at 283-2666. 

 
A summer services project informational meeting will be held today at 7 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 

 
Learn how to play euchre and pinochle tonight at 9 


p.m. at Saint Mary's Dalloway's Coffee House. This activity is sponsored by Students Activities Board. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 4 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 231,494,500 228.79 .. 2.18 S&P COMPOSITE 413.85 .. 4.32 OOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,272.81  38.69 

PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD..(} $ .50 to $356.20/oz. SILVER1} 0.3 to $4.173/oz. 
,.... 
::: 
FORECAST: Today partly sunny and cool with a high in the mid-30s. Thursday will be partly cloudy and warm with a high of 
40. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City 
Amsterdam 
Adanta 
Bogola 
Boston 
Brussels Chicago Fargo 
Fairbari<s Great Fals 
Honolulu Houston Johannesburg Kansas City London 
Los Angeles Miami Beach 
e::Paul 
SaoPaulo South Bend Tokyo W8naN 
H 39 66 
68 34 
45 
40 27 
-13 
57 
74 
51 
86 
41 
55 
78 
73 
~ 
n 
45 55 36 
L 
36 
40 
39 23 36 35 21 20 35 63 50 
57 
33 
43 
54 
67 
25 
28 
45 
49 
68 
25 
39 
32 
Pr.sure H L HIGH LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T -5TORMS  FLURRES  SNOW  ICE  . SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  Washington, D.C.57  30  

 .. ;:.贩  

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
Kinsley on the weekday political talk show. Sununu, former governor of New Hampshire, will continue on the series for as long as Buchanan is campaigning, said CNN spokesman John Bianchi. 
INDIANA 
Purdue students to st'-e break-in 
CAMPUS 
Lafortune evacuated for fire alarm 
Notre 
Dame, Ind. -Most of LaFortune Student Center was evacuated for fifteen minutes at 7:15 p.m. last night when a duct detector in a ventilation shaft set off fire alarms, according to Bob Rodgers, shift captain of the fire department. Searches for the source of the smoke did not point to any definite cause, said Building Manager Anthony Garces. 

 
The summer service project interview schedule is available in the office at the Center for Social Concerns. Please come in and sign up for your interview time if you haven't already. 

 
Attention juniors: The last day for JPW seating requests is today. Call Katy at 283-2537. 

All 
participating in Wednesday's lunch fast need to remember that the program starts today. If you were on the fast last semester, your name has automatically been added to this semester's list. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
 
In 1783: Sweden recognized the independence of the United States. 

 
In 1887: Giuseppe Verdi's opera "Otello," based on the tragedy by William Shakespeare, premiered at La Scala in Italy. 

 
In 1917: Congress passed, over President Wilson's veto, an immigration act sharply curtailing the influx of Asians. 

 
In 1973: Funeral services were held at Arlington National Cemetery for Army Lt. Col. William B. Nolde, the last American soldier killed before the Vietnam cease-fire. 

 
In 1983: Former Nazi Gestapo official Klaus Barbie, expelled from Bolivia, was brought to Lyon., France, to stand trial for alleged war crimes. (He was convicted in 1987 and sentenced to life in 


prison.) 
------~-----~~--------------------~------------------~---------. 
The Observer 
Wednesday, February 5, 1992 
page3 
Policeman kills 3 in N. Ireland 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland (AP) -A policeman distraught over a comrade's death killed three people and wounded two with a shotgun Tuesday at the offices of the Sinn Fein political party, which supports the IRA, police said. 
Constable James Allen Moore, 24, of the Royal Ulster Constabulary, later apparently committed suicide. 
Moore had telephoned police from a north Belfast pub to claim responsibility, a constabulary statement said. 
His body was found three hours later near his car by the shore of Lough Neagh about 20 miles west of Belfast, a shotgun by his side. Moore was described as an anti-terrorist of-fleer who won a commendation for bravery. 
The statement said Moore was arrested Monday after drunkenly firing shots over the grave of a comrade buried earlier in the day. How the comrade died was not clear but it apparently was not in a terrorist incident. 
Moore was released early Tuesday after surrendering his handgun. He failed to appear for a scheduled medical appointment. 
Sinn Fein is a legal political party that supports the Irish Republican Army. The shootings took place at its offices on the Falls Road, the main street of a Catholic area. 
Killed were doorman Patrick Loughran, 60, Patrick McBride and Michael O'Dwyer, police said. 
One victim was shot pointblank in the chest while his 2year-old son, sitting in his lap, escaped unscathed, reported Richard McAuley, the Sinn Fein's chief news media spokesman. 
Authorities said another man was critically wounded in the chest and a woman's face was grazed by shotgun pellets. 
Irish President Mary Robinson, who was making a rare official visit to Northern Ireland on Tuesday, said, "This kind of violence and loss of life is a tragedy that seems all too common in Northern Ireland." ' Belfast's pro-British lord 
Annual Fund assistant directors appointed 
Special to The Observer 
Jeanine Van Es and Kathleen Webb have been appointed assistant directors of the Notre Dame Annual Fund. 
A South Bend native, Van Es has worked in several areas of the University's development office during the last ten years, most recently as administrative assistant for the Notre Dame Annual Fund. 
A former Saint Mary's College student, her new responsibilities will include production and layout of Annual Fund mailings and management of its Corporate Agent and Matching Gift programs. 
A 1991 Notre Dame graduate with a major in anthropology, Webb has worked as a student assistant in the University's development office and as a resident assistant in Badin HalL 
As assistant director of the Annual Fund, Webb will be responsible for management and operation of the development office phone center and for expansion of the Reunion Giving and Annual Fund Challenge programs. 
The phone center has raised more than $13 million since it was established in 1988. 
The Observer/E.G. Bailey 
Perusing the periodicals 
Art Purcaro, an Augustinian priest , searches the Hesburgh library
S[eeping 13eauty periodical section for articles on Peru, the country where he works. 
presentetf 6y tfie Inaianapo[is 13a[[et 7"/ieatre 
~~e.. ND-SMC 
~~ ~~ STUDENTS
t~J~O.~ 
19th Annual Program ~~ ROME 
LONDON June 14-July 13 
May 20-June 19 Travel in France, 
Travel in Ireland, Germany, and 
Scotland, and France Switzerland 

Courses offered in ART, BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN, BIOLOGY, POLITICAL SCIENCE 
MEETING Monday Feb. 17 
6:30pm Carroll Hall, SMC *Free Pizza "*Past student and faculty participants will be present For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
WHYASKWHY? 
ATTENTION: ND and SMC Business Students and MBA's 
DDB-Needham Worldwide Executives: 
Dennis Ryan (Vice President-Creative Director)~ 
8 o'c~ ~rilfay, ~e6ruary 7, 19:J2 
ND Class of '84 
0 'Laugfilin Jllutiilorium, S ' 'MP.ry 's Cofkge AND 
Michael Holsinger (Account Supervisor); ND Class of '82 
'li~t.s avail46k al 
will be givin~ a presentation on the advertising industry, 
LaJ'orturu lnfomuJtion 'Des~ aruf O'fAuefrlin 21o.t Offia 
advertising agenctes, and the Bud Dry campaign "Why Ask Why?" 
They will cover the campaign aspects from both a creative director's perspective and an account supervisor's perspective. 
'){pm 'Dame/St. 'Mary's Suufertt.s: S7 (jenera! Jlamission: S14 5mior Citir.tri.S ana CliiUlren 'Uruler 10: $12 
STUDENT UNION -ltD 
WHEN: Thursday, February 6 AT 7:00 WHERE: LaFortune's Montgomery Theatre, 
f~tfloorl..aFortune 
 sponsored by Notre Dame Marketing Club  



---~---------
The Observer 
page4 Wednesday, February 5, 1992 

Teen becomes chess grandmaster 
1992 ICEBERG DEBATES
BUDAPEST, Hungary (AP) -world's greatest musical grandmaster. Judit Polgar, a 15-year-old prodigy. Known in the chess world for Hungarian teenager, has quali"At the age of 11 or 12 she driving a hard bargain, Polgar 
ROUND I RESULTS':"''::;;::'''::::,::::"':.
fied as the youngest grandmaswas a Mozart ... who was charges four-figure dollar sums ter in the world of chess, beatknocking down grandmasters for interviews with his family. 
F~bruary 4 .::::::::::j:~:~:::::::::::;::::: .. ing Bobby Fischer's record by a like 1 0-pins," Parr said. Attaining men's grandmaster AFfiRMATIVE v~TJ:S ~m; NEGATIVE . VOTES POIHT8 
month, the International Chess Polgar had previously been a rank means a player must score 
St.Ed~~.. ' 2 84184 Fisher 0 ..贩(11/81
Federation said Tuesday. grandmaster in a separate cata minimum number of points in KliOtf .o:at/87.
2 . 91191 Grace A. 
egory for women's competition. two tournaments of 12 or more 
-ppd-Breen-PhillipS 
~-
Polgar earned her new rankrounds, or in three tournaments r~~~::.,,-.. 2 85185 AannEit B 0 >80/80ing by winning the Hungarian Patrick Wolff, a 23-year-old of nine rounds. Flanner A. 87187 . (l J;l4/84
2 Pasquerilla East 
National Championship last Boston grandmaster, also Judit Polgar reached her first LeWis贩 
o 71161 Off-Campus < ~ \ 85187
December, said Felix Esdadilla praised Polgar for her aggresmen's norm in Amsterdam in 
SPrin 2 85185 ~hm I) 80175 
of the International Chess Fedsive style, saying, "I think she 1989 and her second in Vienna 
Gra&e B  2 86/86 Pangborn 0 . 80/85 
eration in Lucerne, Switzerland. has as good a chance as anyone last year, clinching her ranking 
Sta.nlord 2 90184 Keenan 0 67/81
The teenager will be conin the world to be the next at the Hungarian tournament. 
Morrissey B 0 71/62 Alumni 2 83188 
firmed as a grandmaster at the world champion." Polgar got off to a bad start 
siegfried. 1 85/84 Morrissey A 1 70/86 next federation conference in But rival Hungarian grandMonday, the opening day of the 
Bye: Cavanaugh 
June. master Zoltan Ribli said in an Melody Amber tournament in 
Polgar qualified for the title at interview last month with the Roquebrune-Cap-Martin, in the age of 15 years, five Budapest daily Nepszava that southern France. 
ROUND II SCHEDULE months. Fischer qualified in Polgar "has a lot of catching up She lost all three games February 6 1958 at 15 years, six months, to do in terms of the top 10 played to Britain's Jonathan AFFIRMATIVE NEGATIVEaccording to the Guinness Book male chess players." Speelman and Michael Adams 
Grace A St. Ed's
of World Records. Polgar's parents, determined and India's Viswanathan 
Fisher Carroll
Comparatively, current world to raise champions, weaned JuAnand, and finished the day in 
Sreen-Phillips Knott
champion Gary Kasparov was a dit and her two older sisters 12th and last place with no 
Pasquerilla East Lyons
late starter, entering the chess Zsuzsa, 22, and Zsofi, 17, on points. 
Off;Campus Cavanaugh
stratosphere at 17. chess, designating at least 10 Parr said a few more years 
Flanner B Lewis
Larry Parr, former editor of hours a day for training. Under will pass before she starts 
Pangborn Sorin
the American chess magazine the tutelage of Laszlo Polgar, challenging for the world title: 
Zahm Grace 8 
Chess Life, compared Polgar's Zsuzsa became the first woman ~she's world class, but she's not 
Alumni Siegfried
chess genius to that of the ever to gain the rank of world championship class yet." 
Keenan Morrissey B Morrissey A Stanford
meal in the blue room of the video will be shown at the May 
Bye: Flanner A 
dining hall as one means of 15 graduation dance.
HPC 
preserving the positive aspects The Observer/Brendan Regan of the council dinners while at Camera crews will be filming
continued from page 1 
the same time cutting down on senior dorm life this weekend costs. However, some council and will concentrate on off
Pritchard also attempted to 
members quickly moved to campus residences next week~li'fffi)o
reignite debate about HPC's 
close the discussion, accusing end. The final video will I..!J.9.!llllJ l.!J..!Jo 
spending of dorm funds for 
Pritchard of "beating a dead include scenes from the JPW 
"personal use." specifically for 
horse." slideshow and commencement. food. However, in light of an It will be available for purchase SHEs 21 AND 
HPC resolution passed two 
In other business, the council later this year. 
weeks ago giving hall councils' SHEs GOT SOME
was petitioned for funds for the 
discretionary right to decide 
St. Edward's Hall Carnival. Other announcements at the 
this issue individually, the topic Dorm representatives are meeting included news about CRAP ON was closed after a brief discus
needed to help to coordinate the Junior Class Formal, which sion. 
the event, the benefits of which will have a cash bar. It will be 
HER TEETH.
go to a charity of each dorm's held on February 29. 
"Your proposal did not offer a choosing.
viable alternative," said StanAlso, Weekend Wheels will reHAPPY ford Hall Co-President John 
The Carnival will be held in sume servicing the campus this 
Donohoe. "What are we supconjunction with the Fisher Hall weekend. Council members B-DAY!
posed to do instead at our 
Regatta on Sunday, April 12. were still unsure about whether meetings?" 
Also. plans for a senior class or not it will make on campus
Pritchard suggested sharing a -Til COACH
video were announced. The pick-ups, however. 
battered a palace door in attempts to break in.
Coup 

Perez went on nationwide television five times in the early 
continued from page 1 
morning hours to rally support. democratic leaders of our He said rebel units led by a hemisphere." paratroop regiment had sought 

Caracas residents in several to assassinate him. areas of the city were caught in The attack came about an the cross-fire between the rival hour after he returned to the 
on
forces. Rifles. automatic country from a international weapons, mortars were used, economic conference in and one rebel tank repeatedly Switzerland. 
Survey on Sexual 
The Chinese Golden Dragon Harassment Acrobats and Monday, Feb. 10th Magicians of 7:00PM Taipei 
Library Lounge 
Thursday and Fri February 6 and 7 
8:10pm Questions, answers, follow-up, Washington Hall ideas, discussion. Tickets $8-Notre Sponsored By Faculty/Student Dame and Saint 
Committee on Women
Mary's Students $10-General Admission Group rates availabl LaFortune Center Box office 
Wednesday, February 5, 1992 The Observer page 5 
SECURITY BEAT 
AP poll: Tax breaks won't help most 
THURSDAY, JAN. 30 
2:20 a.m. A Notre Dame Security Officer responded to a report of an individual tying under a picnic table near Flanner Hall. When the officer arrived at the scene, he observed two students helping this individual Into Flanner. The student was intoxicated and required assistance into his dormitory. 
8:35 a.m. A University faculty member reported an automatic gate arm closed en his vehicle as he entered the BOt faculty parking lot. 3 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident reported the theft of her unattended student 10 card from the second floor of the Hesburgh Ubrary. 5 p.m. A minor twocar accident occurred on Juniper Read. 
7:43 p.m. A Notre Dame Security Officer transported an injured Grace Hall resident from the JACC to the Student Health Center. 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 31 
8:49 a.m. A University employee reported the vandalism of a Food Services truck that was parked outside North Dining Hall. 5:15p.m. A Morris Inn employee reported the vandalism of a gate behind the Inn. 
8:37 p.m. Notre Dame Security and Fire Departments treated an injured Pangborn resident at O'Shaughnessy Hall and later transported him to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
8:55 p.m. A Notre Dame Security Officer transported an injured St. Mary's student from the JACC to the St. Joseph's Emergency com. 
9:25 p.m. A Notre Dame Security Officer transported an Injured Sarin Hall Resident from the JACC to the St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
SATURDAY, FEB.1 
1:40 a;m, AN~tt~ Dame Security Qflicer tfansporte~ an lhj\Jted Zahm Hall resld~nt from tne JACC to the St Joseplf~
Emergency Rcorri. 贩贩贩贩贩 
2:19a.m. A Niles, Mich.. resident wali arrested for driving while intoxicated by a Notre Dame Security Officer. The incident occurred on Douglas Road. 
2:41 a.m. A Notre Dame Security Offlc~ transported an injured Sarin Hall resident from the JACC... to the St Joseph~s Emergencr jijoorrif'  . . ,,.,,... . i 
9:10 a:A'i' N Securityt!lhd Fjre Departments. injured Grace Hall resident althe JACC and later assisted in transporting him to St. Joseph's EmergenCy Room. 1 p.m. A Sarin Hall resident reported t~ theft of his jacket, bookbag, wallet, and other personal articles from Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
3:29 p.m. A minor two-car accident occurred at the JACC. 
3:54 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident reported the theft. of !'l.er parking decal ftom her locked vehicle whi(lh was parked In the 002 parking lot. 
5:30 p.m. A Carroll Hall resident reported the theft of his wallet from an unsecured locker at the Rockne Memorial. 
NEW YORK (AP) -Three out of four Americans believe President Bush's tax proposals would not make a significant change in their personal finances and just 38 percent say he deserves re-election, according to an Associated Press poll. 
Results of the poll highlight the considerable challenge facing Bush as he prepares to launch his campaign for a second term while under pressure to revitalize the recession-bound economy. 
Forty-eight percent said Bush does not deserve re-election to a second term. That view was shared by 21 percent of Republicans and 52 percent of independents, whose swing vote could prove crucial in deciding the outcome in November. Fifteen percent said they did not know or did not answer. 
The poll showed pessimism about the economy as a clear influence on those saying Bush has not earned re-election. 
Democrats were named by 41 percent of those polled as the party that would do the best job in dealing with the economy while 32 percent said the nation's economic problems would be safer in Republican hands. 
The telephone poll of 1 ,000 Americans was conducted Wednesday through Sunday by ICR Survey Research Group of Media, Pa. It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. 
The interviews began the night after President Bush delivered hls State of the Union Message, outlining steps designed to lift the economy out of what economists say could turn out to be the longest recession since the 1930s. 
Bush proposed a variety of tax breaks for businesses and individuals, including tax credits for first-time home buyers. He announced that the 
We are looking for outstanding junior accounting majors to pmticipate in our Internal Audit Depmtment's summer internship program. 
A summer internship with us is an excellent first step toward Aetna's impressive career opportunities, an exceptional professional development program, direct involvement with top management, special consulting, fraud investigation assignments, and some travel. As a full time member of our staff after graduation, you can qualify for CPA licensing in Connecticut. 
Aetna was recently named by Fortune magazine and The Wall Street Journal as one of America's most admired companies. Our outstanding compensation, benefits and training programs were major reasons why. 
We are looking for individuals with proven analytical ability, effective 
communication skills, initiative, flexibility and creativity to join our large 
staff of audit professionals at our corporate headquarters in Hartford, 
Connecticut. We'd like to meet you and learn more about your expectations. 
Bring your resume and transcript to our infonnation session on the 
following date: 
..,. Information Session 
Wednesday. February 5 4:00p.m. LaFortune Student Center Sorin Room Refreshments will be served 
Check with your Internship Office for fw1her details. 

Aetna is an Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action Employer. 
government would withhold less from individual paychecks, a move designed to pump more cash into the economy. 
Bush also renewed his longstanding demand for congressional passage of a reduction in the tax on capital gains -that is, earnings from investments. 
Among those surveyed, however, just 29 percent said they expected to derive some personal benefit from those proposals, while 61 percent said they would not and 10 percent expressed uncertainty. 
Only 42 percent of Republicans polled expected to benefit from Bush's proposals. 
The pessimism seemed to center more on pocketbook concerns than on whether Bush could get his proposals enacted by the Democratic-controlled Congress. Just 18 percent said they expected a significant difference in the amount of money they will have if Bush's proposals are adopted. 
A full 7 4 percent said adoption of Bush's proposals would not make a difference. Among Republicans, it was 69 percent. 

mmer d
su Neede
IIelp. A ..,..pfiea 
. ~~翻
lll 
Mexico, Ecuador, Paraguay, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Brazil 
Work  Share 
 Live  Learn 
You can have a summer full 
of adventure and personal growth whole improving health for the people of Latin America. 
Meeting for all those interested in becoming a 4, 6 or 8 wk summer volunteer Wednesday, Feb. 5th 7:30 in Lewis Hall Party Room. Contact Jen Babula @ x2665 with questions. 
--,4~ 
Application dealine: March 1, 1~2 Incentives available for early comrrutment 

SMA Fathers, Dept. NDO 500 Everett Ave., Monterey Park, CA 91754 818-280-6967 
___________________! 

4 MILES FROM THE CARRIER DOME
FEBRUARY 21, 1992 

L--------------
STUDENT BODY & CLASS ELECTIONS MANDATORY INFO MEETINGS 
Feb. 5 9-1Op.m. Feb. 6 7-8p.m. 304 Haggar You Must Attend One of These Meetings if You Plan to Run! 
.-----------------------------~-----
Pizza with a smile 
Carrie Kinsella, a junior from Pasquerilla East, keeps customers happy while serving Leprechaun Pizza. 

Congress 
continued from page 1 
revive the economy. 
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan signaled that no immediate further lowering of interest rates was likely. He told Congress that while the Fed would consider a further easing of rates, he believed the recent reductions should be "adequate to turn the economy onto the path of sustained recovery." 
That left the politicians fighting over which of their plans was best. Bush defended his package on the road, telling 
I 
IllALUM~N~I=-===:=:: 
I
i!:CLUi 
I 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS 
I
& 
JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 
I
ARE NOW AVAILABLE. PICK THEM UP AT THE 
I 
LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. APPLICATION DEADLINE IS 
I 
a grocers' convention in Orlando, Fla.: "We ought to give it a try and ... I'm going to keep the heat on." 
r 
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady told the House Ways and Means Committee that propos
I 
als Bush unveiled last week including plans to cut the capital gains tax and provide other 
I 
tax breaks to families and business -would give the 
I
economy the boost it needs. Rostenkowski, who chairs the Ways and Means panel, said 
I
lawmakers would join Bush in "any good-faith effort to get this economy" moving. He said 
I
his committee would begin writing an anti-recession bill next week. 
I 
We've Got 
The PerfectHideout 
ForYour NextWeekend 

I
In Syraruse. I 
I 

Escape to Homewood Suitesand enjoy all the comfort, privacy and convenience of home. Without the chores. Including separate living and sleeping areas, complete kitchen, complimentary breakfast and so much more. All at the price you'd expect for an ordinary hotel room. It's the perfect hideout. 
Wednesday, February 5, 1992 
Bush accuses his opponents of 'political carping,' rudeness 
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) -A trip to promote President Bush's economic plans turned into a day of accusations Tuesday, with Bush attacking opponents' "political carping" and his spokesman accusing Democratic governors of rudeness. 
Democrats returned the fire from Washington. 
Bush and his aides found themselves on the defensive for a second straight day in pitching the recovery plan. 
Addressing the National Grocers' Association, Bush said his George Bush week-old proposal would get roll when another point of view 

the sluggish economy "fired up is available," said Homer. again." 
Deputy White House chief of 
The audience of about 5,000 staff Henson Moore defended grocers and their guests gave the president's plan againstthe president a warmer recepcriticism from Romer and tion than he got the day before others -including housingfrom Democratic governors at secretary, Jack Kemp -that the White House. 
the proposal contained 
Gov. Roy Romer and other "gimmicks."Democratic governors, who up"Just let it be clear, by God,staged Monday's meeting by that we don't think the presidenouncing Bush's recovery dent's economic plan is a gimplan to his face, drew return mick," Moore told reporters on 
fire Tuesday from Bush Air Force One. spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. 
Bush, asked about the criti
''The easiest, cheapest trick in cism of gimmickry, said: the world is to be rude to the 
"I don't think that criticism is 
president to get on the news," valid .... This is no time for Fitzwater said. 
political carping. It's time to get
Romer, meanwhile, told rethe thing moving." porters: 
"It will stimulate the econ
"I did the right thing. 
omy," he added, "So we ought"If the cameras are going to to give it a try and that's all I'm roll when the president is saying and I'm going to keep
speaking, the cameras ought to the heat on." 

I 
"FORTIIE PRICE OF11IE I ORDINARY,
You CAN I 
HAVE TilE Ex!MORDINARY'>'A 
APROMUS COMPANY 
I 
For the hotel that's like home call 
1-800-cALL-HOME 
Or your travel agent 
I
Syracuse-Liverpool 275 Elwood Davis Rd. (315)451-3800 
I 
Wednesday, February 5, 1992 The Observer 
page 7 


Vasser Arafat 
After completing her studies in political science in 1989, Tawil returned to Tunis. A few months later, she was hired as a secretary to Arafat. 
'Doonesbury' readers want Texas citizenship 
world's 5 million Palestinans are Muslims. 
Speaking by telephone from Tunis, the sources said Arafat and Tawil met when she was a student at the Sorbonne in France. She had traveled to Tunisia to visit her mother, a friend of Arafat who was working at the Palestinian news agency WAFA, they said. 
sisters and a brother. Two of her sisters are married to Palestine Liberation Organization representatives. Her brother works for a Palestinian information office in Washington. 
The sources said that a year before their marriage, Tawil and Arafat suddenly became inseparable. 
AUSTIN, Texas (AP) Comptroller John Sharp is offering unofficial Texas residency to those who sent in "Doonesbury" coupons to be "just like the Prez" and avoid paying state income taxes where their home -but not their heart -is. 
Sharp, a Democrat, printed tongue-in-cheek certificates to answer the 150 comic-strip pair of Tony Lama cowboy boots. A New Jersey man said he was a graduate of Texas A&M University "whom a sad fate has taken to New Joisey." 
The certificates, printed with Sharp's political funds, grant unofficial Texas residency "Good for state income tax purposes only. (And then only if you can get away with it)." 
On Sunday, "Doonesbury" cartoonist Garry Trudeau encouraged newspaper readers to become Texas residents, "just like the prez" and pay no state income tax. It included a cutout coupon addressed to Sharp saying it was the writer's "intention to live in Texas at some later date." 

IS GOD CALLING YOU TO THE CARMELITES? 
-CONTACT-
Fr. Peter W. McGarry, 0. Carm. 1313 Frontage Rd.  Darien, Illinois 60559 (708) 852 -4536 
coupons seeking Texas resi-P.. 
dency he's received in three days from 29 states and Brazil. 
A California couple said they deserved to be Texans because they own a pickup truck and a 

-Ib0 Qbse.~~ 
---~ --~~'-'"&.-=-
Applications are now being accepted for the following paid 
positions: 
News Editor Sports Editor Accent Editor Viewpoint Editor 
Saint Mary's Editor Photo Editor Systems Manager 
Advertising Manager Ad Design Manager Production Manager OTS Director Controller Art Director 
A three-page personal statement and resume must be submitted to Monica Yant by 5 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 12. For further information or job descriptions, contact Monica Yant at The Observer, 239-5303. 
INTERHALL COMPETITION FLOOR HOCKEY (Meo aod WomeD) 
DEADLINE-FEBRUARY 5 
INTERHALL COMPETITION LACROSSE BASEBALL 
GRADIF AC/ST AFF COMPETITION BASEBALL 
DEADLINE FEBRUARY 28 ENTRIES BEGIN FEBRUARY 18 

 
LSAT, GMAT, GRE & MCAT Prep Courses 

 
Grad School Selection 

 
Application Assistance 

 
Free Diagnostic Testing EDUCATIONAL GROUP



US 31 N South Bend
 Enrichment Courses 
273-1866 
Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, february 5, 1992 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
AIDS patients deserve our JPW not a happy occasion for all 
Dear Editor: event without this loved one. pretending once again that
compassion, not funding 
Another JPW is currently beFor students who have they come from a "perfect" ing planned and anticipated experienced the divorce of family is overwhelming. Dear Editor: believe it to be a vast majority, by many on the campus. For their parents, it can stir up a Please respect the choices 
I am writing in response to of these people have done those of you working hard to range of feelings, especially if friends, sectionmates, roomtwo recent articles dealing something immoral or illegal make it a success, I commend they feel caught in the middle, mates and classmates make with the allocation of which has resulted in their your efforts. For those of you need to deal with step-parents about whether they resources to ill persons. Over predicament. eagerly awaiting a special as well as parents, or feel participate in this weekend or the last two weeks I have read weekend with your parents roommates or significant not. If people want to discuss articles penned by Mr. Acker This is not to say that as sick and special friends, I hope you others do not understand how how they feel about the of the law school and Fr. human beings they should not have an enjoyable and hard it is to cope with this. weekend, encourage them to Griffin of the wealth be shown compassion. On the memorable experience. For students who struggle fitell you as much or as little as redistribution school. While I other hand, sufferers of The purpose of this letter is nancially, it may not be they feel comfortable thought both articles were Alzheimers and cancer have to heighten awareness of possible for parents to take discussing. Consider inviting well written I am troubled not "brought their disease those individuals who may not time ofT from work to travel to someone who does not have with what I perceive to be a upon themselves." Granted be looking forward to this and from Notre Dame or feel family coming to join you and misinterpretation of Mr. the person who has smoked event. In my work at the they can afford the expense of your parents for part of the Acker's article by Fr. Griffin. two packs of cigarettes a day Counseling Center the past the weekend. For the students weekend. Encourage those not 
Fr. Griffin recently wrote has contributed to his own five years, I've met many who grew up with alcoholism, attending to plan other that we should have lung cancer, but rarely have I individuals who dread this sexual abuse, physical activities for the weekend so compassion for persons heard smoking analogized to weekend. Why would someone violence, lack of support, they do not feel so alone and suffering from AIDS. Of course sodomy. dread such a special and constant criticism or many isolated. Respect differences. we should. We should have It seems reasonable to me to happy occasion? other difficulties, the idea of Rita J. Donley, Ph.D. compassion for anyone who is allocate more resources to the For students who have exposing any of this to friends, Assistant Director suffering from any illness or treatment and cure of experienced the death of a the fear that others could see University Counseling hardship. diseases which are not parent there is sadness as how dysfunctional their Center 
Mr. Acker did not propose reduced or eliminated by they attend another special families are, or the anger of Feb.3,1992 

that AIDS patients do not behavior modification. This is deserve compassion. Fr. particularly true when the Griffin suggests that the Acker resources which are being article overlooked the allocated have been extorted innocent children and hefrom taxpayers in the form of mophiliacs who suffer from our unjust taxation system. aids. Even a brief reading of Anyone is certainly entitled to Mr. Acker's article shows that contribute their own funds to he acknowledged the fact that the wars on AIDS, cancer, or not all AIDS patients have drugs. But when we speak of done something immoral or tax dollars, shouldn't we illegal. consider societal norms and societal disgust toward certain 
The point of Mr. Acker's behavior? article as I understood it was Do not take this to mean that that since we have limited we should not show resources we should allocate compassion to anyone, those resources in a manner because we should. that is consistent with merit. James A. O'Brien While there are innocent aids Off-campus victims, the majority, and I Feb.3,1992 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

THAT'S /AJHAT I'VE 8f:fN 5AYIN6. A SUCK. PROPOSA/.., 8IfTIAJH/31?&'5 
GMJ?t5NI 
TH&SUF? !AHJE GOING 70 138 
R'3RJN51&FOR!<.\ TRJ&VING 7H& 80/Jif5S2 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'My mind is a steel trap. Provide me with information and I will mangle it and retain it.' 
Joan W. Smith 
.. . Fire alarm is going, gotta go! submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Accent 
Wednesday, February 5, 1992 page 9 

Paige Smoron 
Non Sequiturs 
Nerves, nail polish, and the interview from hell 
H 
ella, Miss Smoron. I'm Miss Van Orsdel. You may call me Ma'am." "Thank you, Ma'am. I'm Paige. I'M SO NERVOUS! On my way in I accidentally tripped on your secretary and I think I ran my nylons. Would you have any nail polish? Peanut butter? Anything?" 
"I really don't think so. So tell me-is this your first visit to Northwestern University?" 
"Oh my, yes. I'M SO NERVOUS! I applied here for undergraduate admission, but it was really just a back-up choice, because, let's face it, I mean, you don't really have a football team, at least they're not very good ..." 
"I understand." 
"Urn... Ma'am? What are you writing there?" 
"Oh, just some notes for myself so that I can refer back to this interview. Don't mind me." "Oh. Okay. I'M SO NERVOUS! You misspelled 'slovenly.'" "So I did. Thank you. Now-why are you interested in graduate school?" "Well, I figured it's better than getting a job, right? Ha ha ha! I'M SO NERVOUS!" "Yes. Well. Do you like to write, Miss Smoron?" 
"Oh, wait-this is a trick question, right? I practiced these. NO, I don't like to write, in fact I'd rather die a slow and painful-" 
"I see. What exactly are your plans for the 
future?" 
"Well, grad school. That's why I'm here." 
"I meant after that." 
"Gosh. I don't know. I hadn't thought that far 
ahead. I guess I figured something would come up. Maybe I could take over for that Miss Manners woman when she retires, because I really believe in silverware etiquette ... " 
"Let's keep moving right along, Miss Smoron. Where do you stand on journalistic ethics?" 
"What?" 
"You know. distorting facts, leaving out valuable inform?ion ..." 
"Oh! I'm dgai.tst it. Absolutely. Write that down. Also war. I'm against war. By the way, I'm feeling much less nervous now." 
"I'm so glad. Miss Smoron-may I be frank?" 
"I thought you wanted me to call you Ma'am." 
"Smoron, you remind me of myself at your age-NOT. Have you ever considered that journalism might not be the career for you?" 
"But Ma'am-Frank-ever since I was a teeny 
tiny toddler I've wanted to attend Northwestern, 
although to be honest, at that time I hadn't fully 
grasped the state of the football team ... " 
"Oh, stop sniveling, Smoron. It doesn't become 
you. And let go of my hem." 
"I think I might be getting nervous 
again, Frank." 
"May I suggest that you explore some other options that might be open to you? Any other options? You mentioned nail polish earlier-it seems to me you might be particularly wellsuited for a position in the manicuring field." 
"You know, I've thought long and hard about dedicating my life to beauty, but in my experience, I've found that when I try to do other people's nails, I get all confused because they're upside down ..." 
"Maybe that's just the kind of challenge you 
need, Smoron. Yes. Yes. I see you as a certified 
and practicing manicurist in a city far, far away 
from Northwestern. Wait! You could join the 
Peace Corps and bring the joy of cuticle hygiene 
to those less fortunate than you and me." 
"Cuticle hygiene. Huh. I like that." 
"Yes. Well, looky here, what's this-it's the 
door! Now you be sure to keep me posted on 
what country you're in ..." 
Pause. "I flunked the interview, didn't I, 
Frank?" 
SLAM. 
Paige Smoron is Assistant Accent Editor ofThe 
Observer. Her columns appear every third 
Wednesday in Accent. 

By MATTHEW MOHS 
Accent Writer 
Less than 50 years ago, a young man from Notre Dame looked up into the sky and envisioned his future. 
It was Spring, 1945 and Benjamin A. Cosgrove watched the B-17 bombers fly over the Golden Dome and Notre Dame Stadium, which were traveling from the West Coast to the East Coast for use in the European campaign of World War II. 
At that point he had no idea that 
he would be instrumental in the 
design of the B-17's replacement. 
Then, with a little prodding from 
his NROTC instructors, Cosgrove 
chose to be an aeronautical 
engineer because he liked 
airplanes. His choice has paid off 
many times during his long career 
at Boeing. 
Cosgrove, now the senior vice
president in charge of Boeing 
Commercial Airline Group 
engineering and flight test 
operations and engineering, was 
rewarded for his contributions 
this past Dec. by the National 
Aeronautical Administration. 
With his acceptance of the 
Wright Brothers Memorial Trophy, 
Cosgrove has joined a list of 
recipients including Charles A. 
Lindbergh, Harry F. Guggenheim, 
and Barry M. Goldwater. This 
award is the most prestigious 
honor anyone can receive in com
mercial aviation. 
He was recognized for his 
dedication to commercial aviation 
safety and his contributions to the 
development of four generations 
of Boeing aircraft. 
"I was extremely surprised and 
pleased by the award. It reflects a 'lot on Boeing and on the people who taught me to do the right thing. This isn't just an award for me, but for everyone who has helped me through the years," 
states Cosgrove. 
Airline safety has been one of 
the biggest concerns during his 
career. He organized a group of Boeing engineers to conduct a study of all hull loss accidents since the 1950s. This group's conclusions included recommendations that all carriers and airports could take to improve safety. 
Cosgrove has also worked with the government to move airline maintenance programs from inspection-based repairs to preventative repairs. He says he feels that this is an extremely important move considering the aging air fleet that most carriers have. While at Boeing, he has also searched for better designs and has always emphasized integrity in people. 
Cosgrove started working at Boeing in 1949 on military aircraft. He worked on tail assemblies for the B-4 7 and also worked on the wing design of the B-52. He then turned his expertise to commercial jets such as the 707 and the 727. He was the chief project engineer for the 767, one of the newest planes in the commercial fleet. 
Some of the elements incorporated into this plane have revolutionized air travel including advanced engines, the use of advanced metal alloys in parts, and the new two-crew cockpit. Cosgrove says he believes that this plane is one of the best ever built. 
Now he is working on the new 777 which should reaffirm Boeing's place as the leader of commercial aviation. 
"I think my success or the company's success is being able to go any where in the world, look up, and say I did something. There is great satisfaction in knowing that Boeing planes are all over the world and that they are the best," Cosgrove responds. 
He also stresses that Boeing's success is a group effort, "Building airplanes is not a one man job. People have always tried and they have never gone up." 
His plans are to stay at Boeing for the next couple of years to oversee the development of the 777. He is also excited about prospects of dealing with Russia in the future. Cosgrove recently returned from discussions with people in Russia about the future. 
"I'll probably retire after the 777 is finished," he predicts because he still has a lot of things to do. 
However, his road to Boeing was not a very easy one. When he chose aeronautical engineering, he did not know how hard it was going to be. "I will always remember going to pray at the Grotto for different classes. I would go down and ask for help in getting a grade in calculus or similar classes." 
He found most of his classes very challenging and at times he felt as if he was not going to make it. He stuck with them and this dedication to work has affected the rest of his life. 
"If Notre Dame taught me anything, it taught me that integrity and stick-to-it-iveness will win in the long run. I learned to be honest with myself and with others around me," he recalls fondly. 
Cosgrove has incorporated these values into his family as well. He and his wife have raised five children and helped raise five grandchildren with these important lessons in mind. He says he feels that they have turned out well. One of his daughters has graduated from Notre Dame as an engineer. 
He looks back on his time at Notre Dame very fondly. "It may have been tough, but it was worth it. One of my best memories is of a football game. I think it was 1947 and Notre Dame was playing Purdue. The final score was 28
27. It was a wonderful day." 
Cosgrove reflectively puts his life in simple terms. "At the side of Sacred Heart there is a motto above the door that states 'God, Country, Notre Dame.' My life can be described by a similar statement: God, Family, Boeing, Notre Dame." 
page 10 Wednesday, February 5, 1992
The Observer 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
USED TEXTBOOKS! 
Buy & Sell Books 
Pandora's Books 
3 blks. from NO 
233-2342110-5:30 M-Sun 
VALENTINE GLAMOUR. Give the 
best valentine of all YOURSELF! 
GLAMOUR portraits by nationally 
published model photographer. 
Free brochure. Joe Ringer. 287
0613. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
287-4082. 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-7868373 
The Women's Care Center I Pregnancy help Center is holding a training session for volunteer counselors during the weekend of February 14,15, & 16 on the Notre Dame campus. Anyone interested should call the Center at 255-4595. 
Student volunteers wanted to help raise money for local pregnancy help center. The Women's Care Center is holding its annual phonea-than Feb.1 0-13 & Feb. 17-20 from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. We could use your help any or all nights. If interested please call Michelle at 255-4595 
AVOID THE RUSH & LONG, LONG 
LINES. 
SUBMIT YOUR VALENTINE 
PERSONALS TODAY. 
STOP IN THE OBSERVER OFFICE 
ANYTIME BETWEEN 
8 AM-3:30PM DAILY. 
ATIENTION: SPRING BREAKERS 
INTERESTED IN BECOMING A 
CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE AND 
EARNING A FREE TRIP TO 
CANCUN, MEXICO OR A CRUISE 
TO THE BAHAMAS? 
LOOKING FOR ENERGETIC, 
SOCIAL PEOPLE WHO HAVE AN 
INTEREST IN 
SALES/MARKETING. LOOKS 
GREAT ON THE RESUME. 
CONTACT LANCE@ 271-1681 
STUDYING ABROAD NEXT FALL? 
NEED A PLACE FOR SPRING? 
I'm graduating in December. Take 
my spot in three bedroom apt. at 
Castle Point. Cheaper than the 
"other" places, but much nicer! 
Call Paul: 277-5329 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST a pair of clear pink 
glasses in a pink case 
between Galvin and Farley 
on 1/21 If found please call 
Carolyn X4053 
FOUND: Mini 35 mm camera outfit. 
Was found just before Christmas 
break. Call Joe at x1208. 
FOUND: 
Orange bike in Nieuwland Hall 
last semester. Here's the catch-I'm 
not sure that it is not mine that was 
stolen earlier in the year. If you can 
prove that it's yours, call 
Doc @ 234-1 048 
Found: A set of keys on a Notre Dame key chain outside the JACC last Friday night. To claim call x2963 
LOST: Gold chain with half heart pendant. Monday evening between SOH & JACC. VERY SENTIMENTALIII Call Ryan x1134. 
Lost: sterling silver ring with gold plating on front and round blue lapis stone. Sentimental value. If found, please call at X2948. 
Stolen: From the Rockne, navy 
NO nylon sports jacket w/ 
gold sleeves, leprechaun 
patch, NO lettering, and 
wallet and keys. Valuables 
sorely needed returned. No 
questions asked, no grudges held. 
Reward. Call Steve 1131. 
LOST: Plastic I. D. Case with 
Driver's License. Sr. Bar Card, and 
Vali-Dine. If found, please call 
Michelle X1280. 
Found: 2 dorm keys in North quad, near dining hall. Call Joe x1153 to identity. 
Lost glasses w/ black case during or after orgo test Dave, x2187 
$$$$ LOST: GOLD BRACELET Lost between Pangborn and Grace! Call 284-5504 Reward! Sentimental Value! 
WANTED 
CAMPUS BANDS WANTED TO AUDITION FOR PROFESSIONAL QUALITY MUSIC VIDEO. PLEASE CALL 283-3710 BY FEBRUARY 11. 
need ride to PITI for JPW.will help 
w/ gas/toll. Tiffany X3861 
ND-SMC couple '81 offering FREE 
ROOM AND BOARD for part-time 
summer help with toddlers. 
Barrington, IL area. Call 708-428
1051. 
$40,000/YRI READ BOOKS and TV Scripts. Fill out simple "like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun, relaxing at home. beach, vacations. Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 Hour Recording 801-379-2925 Copyright #IN 11 KEB 
YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK 
TO LIVE! DO IT RIGHT! SPRING 
BREAK IN JAMAICNCANCUN, 
FROM $4291 INCLUDES HOTEL, 
AIR, TRANSFERS. 
SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426
7710. 
Summer internships -Average earnings $4,000.00. University Directories, the nation's largest publisher of campus telephone directories, hires over 250 college students for their summer experience in advertising, sales and public relations selling yellow page advertising tor your campus telephone directory. Positions also available in other university markets. Expense paid training program in Chapel Hill, N.C. Looking tor enthusiastic, goal oriented students for challenging, well-paying summer job. Internships may be available. Interviews on campus Thursday, February 13th. Sign up at the Career Center, Hesburgh Library. 
FOR RENT 
4-8 BEDROOM HOUSES FOR 
RENT FOR 92-93. HURRY, NOT 
MANY LEFT. SECURITY 
SYSTEMS, KEGERATORS. 
287-4989. 
FOR RENT: 3 BD HOUSE 1 BTH TRILEVEL ON 5 ACRES. 10 MIN. FROM CAMPUS $500.00 MO. 1ST LAST + SEC. 684-3778. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153. 
HOMES FOR RENT WALK TO CAMPUS 232-3616 
6-7 BEDROOM HOME.SECURITY ALARM.FURNISHED.WALK TO CAMPUS.FOR 1992-93.272-6306 
Downtown Mishawaka office tor lease (studio, lawyers, doctors, etc.) 900 sq. 11.(4.85 per sq. ft.) $365 a month. Call272-6877. 
Bed & Breakfast for N.D./ St. Mary's families. 2 bedrooms, private bath. Ten minutes from campus. Safest neighborhood in area 234-2626. 
FOR SALE 
Mac Classic 2MB I 40 MB HD Word 4.0 & More Software Brand New $1200 or best off. Chuck x3677 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50, 87 MERCEDES $100, 65 MUSTANG $50. Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Details 801-379-2929 Copyright# 1N11KJC 
Need any house PAINTING done? Experienced, quality painting at reasonable prices. Call Mark at 277-6578. 
FENDER GUITAR AMP: Tube amp, for practice/performing, 2 inputs (high/low gain), tone, vibrato, exc. cond. 271-0138 
TICKETS 
Need to buy NDvsMICH B-Ball tix Pat#3360 
need 1 ticket to Mich game 
x2546 
NEED 3 TICKETS FOR ND-MICH B-BALLII CALL BETH 284-4409. 
NEED 4 ND-MICH B-BALL TIXS. CALL JOHN 273-9165 
Need Mich-ND tix in a BIG way! Derek X1374 or x1373 
I Need 2 NOv. UM Basketball Tickets. 283-2067 
ZACH NEEDS MICH TIXIII 
X 2374 
HELP!! I need NO/UCLA B-ball Tix!l Please call Lynne X2614 
NEED TICKETS FOR NO VS MICHIGAN Call Karen -277-5183 
PERSONAL 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER VACATIONSI 
Jamaica, Bahamas including airfare, great hotel, and much more from only $599. Buy from the #1 name you trust for quality vacations. FOUR SEASONS 1-800-331-3136. 
NEED A COMFORTABLE PLACE FOR PARENTS TO STAY FOR UPCOMING WEEK-ENDS? Call Home B&B 291-0535. Approved by In B&B Assoc. 
CAMPUS BANDS WANTED TO AUDITION FOR PROFESSIONAL QUALITY MUSIC VIDEO. PLEASE CALL 283-371 0 BY FEBRUARY 11. 
George Loves Rachel Tom Loves Maul Hal 
SPRINGBREAK SAILING BAHAMAS 48ft Luxury Yachts/ Groups of 6. Seven Days Barefoot Sailing The Bahamas. All Inclusive With Cabin & Meals $488 Each. CALL ANYTIME. 1-800-999-7245. 
SPRING BREAK TO FLORIDA BEACHES. FUN IN THE SUN, 4/RM. prices. Daytona $149, Panama City $139 Kitch, Wtrfrt & Trans Available. Call CMI at 1-800423-5264. 
WHO IS THE REAL LIZARD KING? OF COURSE....IT'S BOSKII 
7 NIGHTS ON SOUTH PADRE FROM $199-CALL JAMES 2779249 
MORRISSEY FILM FESTIVAL 
Start making your movies tor the 4th annual Film-Fest. CASH PRIZE for winner. 
It will be on February 28th with films due the 23rd. Check with your hall president to be your dorm's rep. or call 3593 tor more info. 
MORRISSEY FILM FESTIVAL 
AND THEN DR. ENEMA SAID, "LET THERE BE SMEGMA," AND THERE WAS SMEGMA. 
EVIL BUTI MAN FROM DILLON, We have caught on to your tricksII Love, Mo & Mo 
IT'S NOT TOO EARLY TO SUBMIT YOUR VALENTINE PERSONALS. COME IN ANYTIME DAILY BEFORE 3:30 PM AND AVOID THE LAST MINUTE LINES. 
SADD MEETING SADD will have a meeting at 
6:45 tonight in Lafortune. Take the north stairs to the mezzanine and follow the signs to our meeting in the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. All interested are welcomeII!II 
"Dance for Heart" Aerobathon and Health Fair at Stephen Center Saturday, Feb. 8th. Health Fair begins at 1Dam-no admission. Power aerobic workout from 1-3 with instructor, Patrick Knowles. Aerobathon is $15 with N.D. 
10. Proceeds benefit the American Heart Association. Call x4969 tor details and pledge forms Ill 
YOU'RE GONNA VOTE FOR A RAT FOR SBP ANYWAY, WHY NOT VOTE FOR SOMEONE WITH A LIFETIME OF EXPERIENCE? 
VOTE WILBUR/GUS FOR SBP 
Vote WILBUR AND GUS for SBP. This is Notre Dame, you haven't got anything better to do. 
Dear Stanley, 
Could you please give me back my $700 so I can buy a plane ticket to visit Hilary? 
Thanks, 
Andy A. 
To my Favorite Keenan Quad 
(+One) Dan: Such a "professional-looking" thug you are! Alan: Yes, you died wonderful-ly! (Thanks for letting us in.) Justin/Jake/John B.: You're a SOULMANII Jim: GREAT SAXI (That's what SHE said!) Chris: The show was excellent-now I have you back! GREAT SHOW KEENAN II C.M. 
WHAT ARE YOU DOING FOR VALENTINE'S DAY??II (JPW?) Don't forget that Irish Gardens in LaFortune has everything you need 
FLOWERS BALLOONS CARDS 
With easy delivery to both campuses. Quality, Convenience, and Affordable! We're a studentrun business just for you. 
ALL V-OAY ORDERS MUST BE RECEIVED BY WEDNESDAY THE 12th-BEAT THE RUSH Ill 
HOURS: Mon-Sat. 12:30-5:30 
Emily, Jodi, and Jill 
You question our sticks, we question your abilities. As for us, we know our sticks' utilities. As poets, we are not that great, But we can assure you, good things come to those who wait. -C. and A. (the Hitchhikers in Dillon) 
ADOPTION Happy, loving couple wishes to raise your white newborn with warmth and love. Can provide financial security and education. Medical/legal expenses paid. Please answer our prayers by calling Maureen & Jim. Call1-800456-2656. 
hey nit 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1800-878-3696. 
The Lizard King lives on I Down with the Crustaceans! 
FAX MAGS Fax your Mac documents for $1 page. Free campus pick-up of your disk. Call Michael at 237-1864. 
We've been helping to meet the needs of gay, lesbian and bisexual students and their friends for almost 20 years. Write us with your questions or suggestions. CONFIDENTIALITY GUARANTEED! 
GLI@/SMC, Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Monk: you protect abusive homosexuals and refuse the rights of healthy ones. Could you please explain?-Michael 
7TH ANNUAL MR. STANFORD CONTEST. FEB 8TH. 7:30 P.M. WASHINGTON HALL TICKETS CAN BE PURCHASED AT LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE OR IN STANFORD HALL ROOMS 119 AND 223 FOR $3.00. ALL PROCEEDS BENEFIT LOGAN CENTER. This years' contestants include: 
1. 
Mike Donnino 

2. 
Bill Kempf 

3. 
Kevin Monahan 

4. 
Joel Link 

5. 
Chris Peterson COME CHEER ON YOUR FAVORITE STUDS Ill 


michael -bologna sandwiches and beet jerky, that's what I've seen for 15 years -monk 
Because dulac gives you what yoL want-Because it's a ploy-Because v:e vetoed 11. 
Mike & Chris, You make us hot and bothered, except when you're drinking whiskey. Mike: don't call her bluff! Thanks for wining and dining us! Love, the girls from 648 PE 
There are enough weasels in student government -it's time for a rat. VOTE WILBUR/GUS FOR STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT NICE-PRESIDENT 
Pooh Bear, you're all the honey in 
the world to me. Love, your honeypot 
Girls of the middle room, Rule #157, No making tun of Renee and Michael!!, but comments about Erin and her date are allowed. 
HOWARD HALL SPIRIT WEEK: WEDNESDAY: Howard night at the movies returns to the pink lounge. Join everyone for some popcorn and fun flicks!! I IIIIIIIIIIIIISMILE KATY HARTIIIIIIIIIIIII!Only 13 more days and you're done. 
Love, Alicia (the evil one) 
..... NAZZ '92 ***** Campus Band festival coming in March. All bands should register now with Barb in Student Government 2nd floor LaFortune.  NAZZ '92  
ONLY 3 DAYS 'TIL ALBERTVILLE OLYMPIC WINTERFEST '92111 USA, USA ,USAI 
Dear the D's: D#1 : I hope all is going well and that Spanish is going well! 0#2: I hope you have smiled at least once since I saw you! 
Molly, I had a scrumptous eclair last night! Could you tell me, please, how that fits into my daily totals! Should we try to go "to the max" this week? 
If your going to vote tor a tool for Student Body President you might as well vote tor the guy with the biggest tool. Vote for wilbur 
Cucumbers are lettuce but only if you speak Russian on Thursdays. 
Erin: Great job so far! We're one step closer to Boston every day I 
Alright Waylon, Willie and the Boys: I've had enough of this slamming Garth Brooks ...... The man is a GOD, pure and simple and I will not tolerate any further attacks on his talent or worthiness as the latest country music icon !Ill 
Love, Sandy B. 
I second that emotion I 
To Pete and Belch, This is official notice of the boycott. If you do not write soon,we will swoop like vultures! 
All our love, The Junta 
Cap 'n Cork Cap 'n CorkCap 'n Cork Cap 'n Cork Cap 'n Cork Cap 'n 
Hey Keenan: Thanks so much tor the tickets. You provided some much needed laughs. Love, the Women's Swimming Team. 
I can't remember how many days til Cancun ladies. I'll get on it ASAP. 
~ QICIIDFOI ia!IC~~~ aC[;ii Key West Sucks Skiing is too cold Get on your own party plane to Cancun, Mexico 
Cancun $475/Plane, Hotel Padre $199/Condo Bahamas $279/Cru1se Panama C1ty, Fl $99/Hotel Daytona Beach $250/Bus, Hotel 
Cell Lance ct 271-168 1 
DAYTONA BEACH 
"~''04 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ..~. 1f2B STEAMBOAT .. 1f22 PANAMA CITY BEACH .... 1f22 FORT LAUDERDALE 
""''fJ6 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND ..~.lff9 MUSTANC ISLAND I PORT ARANSAS .....Sf28 
DOIIT IIIIAIT 'Til IT'S TOO LATE 
nth Annual Celebration! 
TOll FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
18003215911 
-=---.._,_. --~ 
~ -------...,.... -__,.. 
-.........w~............._. 


-~~-------
Wednesday, February 5, 1992 
SCOREBOARD 
page 11 

NBA STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS NHL STANDINGS 
BASE WALES CONFERENCE 
EASTERN CONFERENCE American League Diviaion
Patrick Atlantic Division BALTILMORE ORIOLEs-Agreed to terms w~h 
w L T Pts GF GA Home Away DivW L Pa G8 L10 Streak Home Away Conf Manny Alexander and Ricky Gutierrez. Infielders; NY Rangers 34 17 2 70 206 168 16-6-1 18-11-1 11-8-0
New York 29 16 .644 7-3 Won 1 17-5 121\ 211\ Cesar Devares catcher, and Mike Oquist, p~cher, Washington 18 64 176 1581
30 4 222 15-1()-3 149-0
Boston 27 18 . 600 2 6-4 Lost 2 18-6 9-12 1713 on one-year contracts . New Jersey 26 17 7 59 194 156 16-7-3 10-1()-4 9-9-4
Philadelphia 23 23 .500 6112 7-3 Won 2 16-8 7-15 15-16 KANSAS CllY ROYALS-Agreed to terms with Pittsburgh 26 20 6 58 229 1111-5200 15-9-1 13-12-2
Miami 22 25 .468 8 64 Lost 1 17-6 5-19 16-15 Tom Gordon, pitcher, and Mike Macfarlane, NY Islanders 19 7 193 11-115 8-9-4
New Jersey 19 26 .422 10 5-5 Lost 5 1310 6-16 1()-17 24 45 205 8-13-2
catcher, on one-year contracts. Philadelphia 17 25 
10 44 152 179 12-8-6 5-17-4 5-134Washington 15 30 .333 14 1-9 Lost 1 7-16 8-14 8-21 TEXAS RANGERS-signed Don Carman, Adams Divialon Orlando 11 35 .239 181/2 3-7 Lost 5 7-15 4-20 8-19 pitcher, to a minor league contract w~h Oaklahoma Montreal 
32 18 4 68 171 128 2071 12113 1682
Central Division City of the American Association. Boston 19 59 181 17-7-3
26 7 173 9-124 128-4
Chicago 39 8 .830 7-3 Lost 1 212 18-6 243 National League Buffalo 21 22 10 192 189 15-7-4 6-15-6
52 8-1()-4Cleveland 30 13 .698 7 6-4 Won 3 19-4 11-9 23-7 ATLANTA BRAVE8-Agreed to terms w~h Ron Hartford 15 25 8 38 146 169 8-1()-7 7-15-1 7-12-4
Detroit 26 20 .565 12 112 6-4 Won 2 14-9 12-11 15-14 Gant, outfielder, on a one-year contract. Quebec 12 33 6 30 212 1213-1 Q-20-5
155 6-11-2Atlanta 23 23 .500 15 112 4-6 Lost 3 14-8 9-15 11-15 CINCINNATI REDs-Agreed to terms with Tim CAMPBELL CONFERENCE
Milwaukee 21 23 .477 16 112 46 Woo 2 16-6 5-17 13-14 Layana, phcher, on a one-year contract. Norris Diviaion Indiana 18 29 .383 21 46 Lost 1 13-105 -19 1()-17 LOS ANGELES DODGERS-signed Jim 
w L T Pts GF GA Home Away DivCharlotte 13 33 .283 25 1/2 28 Won 1 9-14 4-19 9-19 Neidlinger, pitcher, to a contract with Abuquerque Detroit 28 16 8 64 214 174 178-3 11-8-5 125-2
WESTERN CONFERENCE of the Pacific Coast League. Chicago 20 58 17-6-4
24 10 175 161 7-14-6 9-8-4
Midwest Division PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Signed Greg St. Louis 22 9 182 184 1573 7-1()-3
22 53 7-15-6W L Pet G8 L10 Streak Home Away Conf Mathews, p~cher. to a contract w~h ScrantonMinnesota 22 24 4 48 164 176 14-1()-3 8-14-1 10-9-3
Utah 31 17 .646 82 Woo 4 2Q-2 11-15 187 Wilkes-Barre of the International League, and Toronto 16 31 5 37 141 192 5-18-3
11-13-2 6-12-2
San Antonio 26 18 .591 3 6-4 Won 4 15-5 11-13 1711 invited him to spring training. Smythe Diviaion Houston 25 20 .556 4 112 64 Woo 1 167 9-13 14-10 BASKETBALL 
Vancouver 29 14 8 66 181 
146 16-8-5 13-8-3 157-3
Denver 17 28 .378 12 112 37 Lost 4 14-11 3-17 1()-20 National Basketball Association Winnipeg 22 10 166 14-1()-3 7-9-5
22 54 162 812-7Dallas 13 32 .289 16 112 1-9 Lost 6 816 5-16 8-17 HOUSTON ROCKETS--Placed Carl Herrera, Los Angeles 20 20 11 51 181 193 11-8-8 9-12-3 10-8-5
Minnesota 8 37 .178 21 112 1-9 Won 1 6-17 2-20 6-23 lorward, on the injured list. Activated Larry Sm~h. Calgary 21 24 7 49 194 11-7-4187 10-17-3 1Q-1Cl-2
Pacilic Diviaion forward-center. from the injured list. 
Edmonton 21 26 7 49 196 206 12-103 9-16-4 11-124Penland 31 13 .705 9-1 Woo 6 2()-5 11-8 14-9 Continental Basketball Association San Jose 37 4 2611 129 228 9-142 223-2 8-15-3Golden State 29 13 .690 1 7-3 Won 3 147 15-6 19-10 
RAPID CllY THRILLERS-Traded Wayne Monday'a Gamea Wedneaday'a GamesPhoenix 31 16 .660 1 112 7-3 Won 2 193 12-13 20-8 Engelstad, forward, to the La Crosse Catbirds for Detroit 4, Pittsburgh 4, tie Washington at Detro~. 7:35p.m.
LA Lakers 27 18 .600 4 112 64 Lost 2 15-7 1211 1712 future considerations. Signed Cliff Robinson, Minnesota 4, Toronto 2 Pittsburgh at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m.
Seattle 23 24 .489 9 112 4-6 Won 1 1210 11-14 14-11 
forward-center . Tueaday'a Gamea Minnesota at T01onto, 7:35p.m.
Won 1116 Sacramento 15 31 .326 17 5-5 Won 1 f2-9 3-22 7-21 
LA Clippers 21 24 .467 10 112 3-7 1 15-8 6-16 ROCKFORD LIGHTNING-Activated Dan Late Games Not Included Quebec at Calgary, 9:35 p.m. 
Godfread. center. from the suspended-reserve list. Buffalo 7, Washington 3 Montreal at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m.
Placed Doug Ovenon, guard, on suspendedNew Jersey 3, Philadelphia 1 Chicago at San Jose, 10:35 p.m.
Tuesday's Games Nedneadaya Gamea Orlando at Minnesota, 8 p m. reserve list. Boston at Winnipeg, (n) Thuraday'a GameaLate Games Not Included Seattle at New Jersey, 7:30 p.m. Chicago at Phoemx 9:30 p m FOOTBALL N.Y. Islanders at Los Angeles, (n) Boston at Phlladephia, 7:35 p.m.
New York 122, Miaml91 Cleveland at Philadephia, 7:30p.m '   Football League
Charlotte 115, Washington 99 Golden State at Miami, 7,30 p.m. LA Clippers at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. 
National Hartford at San Jose, (n) New Jersey at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m.
GREEN BAY PACKER8-Named Mark Montreal at Vancouver, (n)
Penland at San Antonio, (n) Milwaukee at Detro~. 7:30p.m. Utah at Sacramento. 10:30 p.m. Hartford at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 
Schiefelbein director of community relations. Dallas at LA Cli~rs. (n) Houston at Boston, 8 p.m. 
N.Y. Islanders at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m.
PHOENIX CARDINALS-signed James Richards. offensive lineman. 
standings or in the financial best." Spendthrift George 
day's outrageous baseballBaseball books. Steinbrenner and last year's salaries can be placed on Oakland A's prove that dealing overzealous owners. Often
continued from page 16 
Assuming this is the case, with big egos and big contracts teams are owned by wealthy inthe commissioner will potenare big obstacles in the way of dividuals who run their teams career pitcher; the Orioles tially have considerable impact the chemistry that wins chamto fulfill a personal quest. Somegambled a million on former in baseball's future. One propionships. 
reformers believe corporate
Cub washout Rick Sutcliffe. posal is total revenue sharing (Anheiser-Busch in Saint Louis)So what issues are raised by among major league teams, Some teams, wisely knowing and community (in Pittsburghthese soaring player contracts? improbable because it goes this postulate or just conceding and Montreal) ownerships areThe Darwinian argument is against the very premise of a poor finish, opt to minimize more capable of running teamsthat, with continued free capitalist America. Taking back their losses by withdrawing like a business. Excess money
agency and skyrocketing generous rights such as free 
from the bidding wars. Teams could go to making thesalaries, larger markets (New agency would also help keep like Houston, Montreal and recustomer's experience moreYork, Los Angeles and Chicago) salaries down, but it would be 
cently Saint Louis and comfortable... and less 
American
will win out. The most eminent hard to reverse the trend. A Philadelphia have traded their expensive.
losers would be the 1993 ex-more practical option would be 
veteran superstars or let them 
Red
pan.sion teams of Colorado and to follow suit with the NBA by go as free agents and put faith Something must be done toFlorida who, starting off in debt instituting a salary cap. 
in the farm system and the fuprotect baseball owners' budand with inferior teams, may Other critics say: "The most 
Cross
ture. gets from bankruptcy and playnever break even in the expensive team is rarely the Much of the blame for to-ers' egos from bursting. 
..r:--------------------~................................. l More trouble for UNLV basketball
I   
Weaver and university counUC Santa Barbara ThursdayLAS VEGAS (AP) -More sel Brad Booke said they had
~:: cross country ~: night.
trouble has surfaced for the determined that Rider did not 
Rider was arrested in the
UNLV basketball program, pay his own bail, a violation of early morning hours of Jan. 24
with leading scorer J .R. NCAA rules. 
following a disturbance at a
Rider declared ineligible Rider will have to make restirestaurant near the campus.
H~ skiing tour ~! 
because of concerns over the tution on the $200 bail before According to police reports,source of bail money he used UNLV can apply for his rein
Rider became abusive. Rider
:1: :II to get out of jail last month. 
statement from the NCAA. contended that police harassed
I  e  That could happen as early as him. 
Rider was not suspended Tuesday.:1: ~-:-; :1 and will continue to practice Rider had to make bail after 
Weaver said the arrest was
:I   I 
with the team during an he was arrested for obstructing not a factor and any discipline
I / :1 ongoing investigation, UNLV a police officer following an inon that incident could haveathletic director Jim Weaver
1   I , cident near the campus. been handled by Tarkanian. He
said late Monday night. 
said the university became in
:1 : sunday, february 9 : I ' 
Ron Allen, a UNLV academic volved when it appeared some
"Those decisions have
: I : lO:OOam registration and orientation : : adviser who helped arrange for one else paid his bail. 
always been made by the Rider's bail, could have been
I  11 :OOam -1:30pm tour with lunch : university," UNLV coach reprimanded, reassigned or 
The university is also check
I  I Jerry Tarkanian said
  $3.00 or $5.00 with equipment : I possibly fired. Under the terms ing into ownership of a vehiclefollowing Weaver's anof an agreement reached by Rider was driving at the time. 
:I :register in advance at RecSports by Friday at 5:00pm  I
I   nouncement. "And I've UNLV officials and attorney The Rebels, 18-2 and ranked
always supported those 
decisions." not discussed. 
 :J Steve Stein, Allen's status was No. 17, are banned from TV 
and postseason play this season
......................................-------------,
-~-------------------
Weaver said he concluded as a final resolution of a 14
that Rider did not pay the bail. year battle between Tarkanian Allen's name appears on the and the NCAA. The school also 
bail receipt. 
faces 29 new alleged violations. Weaver said he expected That case is expected to be 
Rider to be reinstated in time heard by the NCAA Infractions for the Rebels' next game, at Committee later this year. 
PAUL AND BARBARA HENKELS LECTURE SERIES
AT THE RONKIN EDUCATIONAL GROUP OUR CLASS SIZES ARE LIMITED TO NO MORE THAN 1 0 STUDENTS PER CLASS. 
""FOR THE CANON OF THE WESTERN TRADITION
SIGN UP NOW FOR PREPARATION COURSE FOR SUMMER I.SAT 
This example of personalized attention IS JUSt one 

Eva Brann, Dean
of the reasons our classes are filling up fast. 
Call now to reserve a seat. 
St. John's College, Annapolis 
 
40 Hours Of Live Instruction 

 
Live Thtorial Available At No Extra Charge 


Thursday, February 6 
 National 800 Telephone Helpline 
273-1866 
8PM
 6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams 
US31 North 
 Constantly Updated Materials 
Hesburgh Ubrary Auditorium Free and Open to the Public 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, February 5, 1992 
SPORTS BRIEFS
Bulls show they are not perfect 
SALT LAKE CITY (API Chicago's third loss in five games after 13 straight victories left the Bulls a picture of frustration. 
Michael Jordan. protesting the call that gave Utah a 126123 victory Monday night in three overtimes. was ejected with a half-second left. And coach Phil Jackson was outraged over the Jordan foul that gave Jeff Malone three free throws with the score tied. 
With just a short day's rest, the Bulls wrap up their sixgame road campaign at Phoenix on Wednesday night. They return to Chicago to face New Jersey next Tuesday. 
The Bulls, who were on a pace to win a record 70 games during the regular season, are now 39-8 after finishing the first half of the season at 37-5 -the second best start in NBA history. 
If the Utah defeat was particularly bitter for the defending world champions, it was especially sweet for Jazz coach Jerry Sloan, a one-time Chicago player, scout and coach. 
"We were fortunate to get the win," he said. "Those are the kinds of games you like to win, and obviously because it was Chicago, it was magnified." 
The outcome also vindicated Sloan's decision not to call a timeout after Jordan, who finished with 34 points, buried a 15-footer with 5.6 seconds left in the third overtime to tie the score 123-123. 
Sloan said Tuesday that a timeout may have handed Utah the ball at midcourt, but it also would have given the Bulls time to set their defense. 
"I started to call time out and then we called it off," he said. "We think we're better off to push it down the floor in those 

AP Photo Karl Malone grabs a rebound from Chicago's Horace Grant. Malone and the Jazz topped the Bulls, 126-123, in triple overtime Monday situations. Chicago's such a great defensive team." 
With the Bulls still falling back, Utah's Jell' Malone drove toward the key and was whacked on the leg by Jordan, the ball bounded away and a foul was called. Jordan, protesting the whistle, drew a technical from referee Tommie Wood and was ejected. 
Malone, who had 13 points on a miserable 4-for-21 night from the field, hit all three foul shots to give the Jazz a win after 63 minutes of play. 
Jordan refused to be interviewed, but Jackson vented his fury over the foul. 
"I think they got tired of us being in the position to win it in the two overtimes that we lost before that, so they said, 'To heck with it; let's give the home team the chance to win it and send them home,"' he said. 
At first, it appeared Jordan may have been ejected for bumping referee Wood, but referee Jake O'Donnell said Jordan was tossed for his language. Jackson said the words were well-earned. 
"Whatever he said, that referee deserved it because you don't make foul calls like that in the end of an NBA game. People know it's a desperation drive. I don't know how much he got him, but you just don't make those calls." Jackson said. 
"Unfortunately it ended a good game. We probably should be (still) playing out there," he added. 
Jackson's comments have drawn the attention of the NBA in New York. The league could fine him for criticizing officials. 
"We're in the process of doing a formal investigation. Once that is done, we'll be making a decision about any action," said Penny Nelson, assistant to NBA operations vice president Rod Thorn. 
Sloan said that from his an
gle, he couldn't see the contro
versial play. 
"Jeff had his back to me. But that's what officials are for. I couldn't see the foul, but obviously the officials saw it," he said. 
Ih~Obset:Ver_ 
Applications are now being accepted for the following paid positions: Managing Editor Business Manager 
Applicants for the Managing Editor's position should: Have a wide base of Macintosh computer knowledge Have strong interpersonal and management skills Have strong editing skills and experience Be familiar with newspaper production 
Applicants for the Business Manager's position should: Be a sophomore or junior Business major Have desire to gain valuable work experience Have strong interpersonal and organizational skills Have a firm grasp of basic accounting principles 
A three-page personal statement and resume must be submitted to Monica Yant by 5 p.m. Friday, Feb. 7. For further information or job descriptions, contact Lisa Eaton (Managing Editor) or Gil Gomez (Business Manager), at The Observer, 239-5303. 
Hapkido/Tae 
Kwon Do practice every Monday and Wednesday. 6:30 p.m.-7:45 p.m. Room 301 Rockne Memorial. Beginners welcome. Any questions, call Sean at 283-3457. 

A 
Cross Country Ski Clinic for beginners is being ofl'ered on the golf course by RecSports, today at 4 p.m. Register in advance at RecSports. 

The 
Bookstore Basketball Tournament is looking for a new head and some assistant commissioners. Anyone interested should pick up an application at the student government secretary's desk on the second floor of LaFortune. Applications are due by Friday, February 1 and interviews will be held on February 10 and 11. Any questions, contact Kevin McGee at 234-5193. 

The 
RecSports Downhill Ski Trip, originally scheduled for January 24 is rescheduled for Friday, February 7. Buses will leave the Library Circle at 5 p.m., and return at approximately 11 p.m. 25 dollars includes lift ticket, equipment and transportation. Register at RecSports by 5 p.m. Wednesday. 

SMC/ND 
women's lacrosse club first praetice will be Wednesday, February 5, from 8-10 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. For the rest of the month pracitces will be Sunday, from 2-4 and Monday and Wednesdays from 8-10 p.m. at Angela. 

The 
NO Cricket Team will practice on Wednesday, February 5 at 10 p.m. at Loftus. New players welcome. Call Marko at 2833587 or Tim at 283-1473 for details. 

Mixed 
doubles tennis social is open to all undergraduate students. Informal games will be played and you can sign up on an individual basis. The first night will be Monday, February 10. To sign up, please call Renee Wenger at 283-134 7 by this Friday. 

The 
Rowing Club has a meeting this Wednesday at 7:30 in room 120 Cushing. Dues and spring break deposits will be collected. 

ND/SMC 
Equestrian Club: Anyone interested in showing in the Iowa State Show from February 14 to 16 at Peotore, Illinois, please call Larissa at 289-7829. 


Cltlt!eseAmerican 
.......,.... ' 
CodltiW lHn&t 
Aulhenroc Szechua, Mandann & Hunan CUtsone 
ALL YOU CAN EAT Chikti'WI under 1 0 Hatt Price 
Includes Soup. Apaehzer. 8 Entrees ind Desser1 (Otlvlt mtnu ttJmS .rlso ~ ala~' 130 Dixie Way S., South Bend (net to Ran<Sall"s lnnl 2 
..----------------------.. 
SPRING BREAK Surfs Up 
Get on en NO-SMC Perty Plene from South Bend to Cencun, Me xi co from $475 -$635 
Get on e Perty Bus from South Bend to Dey tone Beech, Flori de from $250 to $270 
Perty on the "Love Boet" from Ft. Leuderde 1 e to the Behemes from $279 -$329 
Perty in Pedre in your own Condo on the Beech for $199 
Perty in Pe neme City, Flori de from $99 -$ 1 99 
Contact Campus Reps: 
Lance Dawson 271-1681 Jeff Burgis 289-6642 Scott Hezen 289-6642 Mike Kemredt 289-6642 (SMC) Mery Kemredt 284-4380 
ATTENTION: Looking for motivoted ND-SMC students who would like to be compus reps ond get a free trip to Cancun or cruise to Wednesday, February 5, 1992 The Observer page 13 



Tyson case continues in Indianapolis Devils win, move into 3rd 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The mother of Mike Tyson's accuser cried Tuesday as she described how her happy-go-lucky teenager became a frightened child plagued by nightmares in the weeks after the alleged raped. 
"She sees his face, and she's scared. She's reliving this nightmare over and over," the mother said, her voice cracking and tears flowing. 
"I just want my daughter back." 
The mother's testimony, which moved at least one juror to cry, capped a morning of Iegal setbacks for the defense. Earlier, Judge Patricia J. Gifford refused to allow the jury to hear three surprise defense witnesses but permitted the prosecution to play parts of a tape of Tyson's accuser talking to a 911 operator. 
Tyson, 25, is accused of raping the woman after inviting her back to his hotel room July 
19. The former world heavyweight champion claims the 18year-old consented to sex. He 
JACC 
continued from page 16 
Michigan come to the Thunderdome, the games sell out. I understand that people want to see great teams, but almost every game should sell out anyway. Using the excuse that Notre Dame is not a top 25 
Hoops 
continued from page 16 
found itself in a position to take the lead with 32 seconds remaining as Bennett stepped could get up to 63 years in prison if convicted. 
His accuser's mother described her child as a smiling, enthusiastic "people person" who was transformed when they saw each other later on the day of the alleged rape. 
"She didn't look like the same daughter I sent down here. She was pale and upset. I just ran to her and hugged her," the woman said, and began to cry. 
She said her daughter, who was competing in the Miss Black America pageant, was determined to finish the competition but was "just going through the motions." 
"Her smile was fake. Her eyes were swollen, and make-up couldn't hide it," she said. 
The mother said she told her daughter that the teenager would have to decide for herself whether to press charges. 
"I said she'd have to live with herself, whatever she decided. I did encourage her to do what she felt was right," she said. 
They were about to leave the city after the pageant when the young woman decided she wanted to go to the police, her mother said. 
Portions of the 911 tape in which the operator urged the woman to press charges were deleted at defense request. On the tape, the woman is heard saying: "I came out of the bathroom and this person was in his underwear and he just basically kind of did what he wanted to do and kept saying, 'Don't fight me. Don't fight me.' I was saying, 'No! No! Get off of me, get off of me please....' 
"And the person is a lot stronger than I was and he just did what he wanted, and I was saying, 'Stop, please stop.' And he just didn't stop." 
Tyson's accuser testified last week that she met him at a pageant rehearsal on July 18 and that he called her from his limousine in the pre-dawn hours of July 19, insisting she go out and talk with him. She accompanied him to his hotel suite because she thought they were going to pick up someone, she said. 
Knicks crush Heat, 122-91 
team is no excuse. When the Irish played at West Virginia this year, 13,759 spectators showed up to see the 5-6 Irish. 
Last night during halftime, I heard one sports writer make the satirical comment, "Someone contain the student body". 
Maybe the reason for the lack of support is a lack of money. I do not believe this because every weekend you hear students talk about drinking or 'going out'. Maybe if the students gave up a couple of beer dollars a week, I would not have to listen to this pitiful excuse. 
I hope Irish faithful continue to attend the games and maybe by some weird chance, the basketball team will get more support. 
to the line facing of a one-onone. 
However, the front end bounced off of the rim, and Detroit quickly passed the ball upcourt. Lamarr Justice fouled, and the Irish were soon down three with only 26 seconds remaining. 
Detroit hit two free throws to push the lead to five with twelve seconds remaining, but after Bennett's desperation three, the ball was left bouncing on the baseline as the clock sounded. 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -Tom Chorske scored two goals to back a 26-save performance by Chris Terreri and the New Jersey Devils continued Philadelphia's road woes by defeating the Flyers 3-1 Tuesday night. 
The loss ended the Flyers' four-game overall unbeaten streak and extended their road winless streak to 10 games (08-2), dating to a 3-0 win against Minnesota on Dec. 21. 
Against Patrick Division foes on the road, the Flyers are even worse. They have not won since Feb. 23 of last season when they defeated the New York Islanders 5-3, and are 0-11-3 in that span. 
Sabres 7, Capitals 3 BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) -Dave Andreychuk scored a goal and 
NEW YORK (AP)-Patrick Ewing scored nine of his 19 points during a 23-6 secondquarter spurt, and the New York Knicks stayed unbeaten at home in four years against Miami with a victory over the Heat on Tuesday night. 
The Knicks scored the first two baskets of the second half for a 66-43 lead, and the Heat got no closer than 20 thereafter. 
New York's largest lead was the final margin. 
Miami's Glen Rice scored 21 points, extending his franchise record of consecutive games with 20 or more to eight. Rony Seikaly had 15 points and 12 rebounds. 
Hornets 115, Bullets 99 CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) -Johnnv Newman oaced a hal
assisted on four others to power the Buffalo Sabres to a 7-3 victory over the Washington Capitals. 
The game was tied 3-3 midway through the third period when Buffalo scored twice in just 59 seconds. Randy Wood made it 4-3 when he blasted a 20-footer over the left shoulder of Capitals goaltender Mike Liut at 11:12, and defenseman Ken Sutton powered a 30-footer past Liut at 12:11. 
Pat LaFontaine scored his 30th goal of the season, tucking the puck in from behind Liut with just over four minutes left in the game. Rob Ray tallied with 15 seconds left as the Sabres extended their home unbeaten string to seven games and their overall record in their last 11 games to 9-0-2. 
anced Charlotte scoring attack with 19 points as the Hornets led all the way in the second half and breezed past the Washington Bullets. 
Seven Hornets scored in double figures. Larry Johnson and Kendall Gill had 18 each and ten of Charlotte's 11 players scored. 
The win ended a three-game Charlotte losing streak. Washington lost for the ninth time in 10 games. 
Charlotte led through the entire second half as the Bullets could get no closer than six points. 
Pervis Ellison fmished with 19 to lead the Bullets. Michael Adams, named earlier in the day to replace Larry Bird in the All-Star ~rame. had 16. 

9:00 pmNotre Dame RoomLaFortune 
..,; 
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, February 5, 1992 
NFL hopefuls gather for combines 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -It's show time for 460 college football players who hope to prove they're ready for the big time during the annual NFL Scouting 
Combine  that  begins  
Wednesday in  the  Hoosier  
Dome.  

It's a mixed group of players who have won All-America and all-conference honors at major colleges, along with those lesser known products who have toiled in relative obscurity at smaller schools. 
The process, described as a meat market by some past participants, is conducted mainly behind closed doors, with the media and public locked out. 
During a gruelling three-day process, each player undergoes extensive physical and athletic examinations and has personal interviews with team representatives. 
"This is like a major examination," says Duke Babb of National Football Scouting, which coordinates the annual a last chance to boost their stock for the April 26-27 NFL draft in New York. 
"The players know what this is all about," Babb says. 
The seniors received their invitations more than a month ago, but Babb had to wait until the NFL announced its Jist of eligible underclassmen this week before asking them to attend. 
"It's another tool to evaluate the puzzle," says Jack Bushofsky, director of player personnel for the Indianapolis Colts, who own the top two picks in this year's draft. 
"The draft puzzle begins with school visitations. Every team has a preliminary idea of what it wants at this point, but the combine gives you a chance to compare the players side-byside. You have a mental picture of a player's potential going in, but you get a good idea of their release, catching abilities and foot work at the combine," he added. 
Teams don't like to discuss specific players, leery of giving Tobin, Chicago's vice president for player personnel. 
"It's made this year's draft deeper, but that's not something the NFL wants. We still would like those kids to stay in college. 
"In many cases they'll be coming to the combine because they were pushed by agents or advisers and they might be making a mistake," Tobin said. 
"The NFL doesn't need someone leaving college. Some of those players aren't even going to be drafted. They've lost an opportunity for more education, and haven't helped themselves." 
He conceded, however, "There are some high profile underclassmen who came out this year, and they're going to go early." 
Not all players who are invited make the grade. 
"We've had players who have come here out of shape and others who have tested positive for drugs," Tobin says. "That's just stupidity." 

event. "The teams have already opposing teams some advanreceived scouting reports and tage or insight into their made evaluations. This gives thoughts. them a unique way to make "I won't discuss individuals," their decisions for the draft." Bushofsky said. "This looks like 
Ill ALUMNISENIOR =====:1 
a pretty good year. There are 
Most of the participants are quite a few good defensive seniors, but 14 underclassmen corners and there's quality who have decided to boost their among offensive and defensive bank accounts rather than conlinemen." 
i!:CLUB 
tinue their education also have been invited to attend the com"There isn't a lot of depth at bine, which continues through linebacker this year and there Monday. aren't as many top, or well
STODENT BARTENDER APPLICATIONS
The Jist of those who declared known receivers," Bushofsky their eligibility for the NFL says. 
&
draft include Heisman Trophy "The potential of the draft winner Desmond Howard of has been boosted by the underMichigan, Outland Trophy winclassmen coming out," says Bill 
JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 
ner Steve Emtman of Washington and UCLA quar
ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
Reduce
terback Tommy Maddox, a sophomore. The first group of offensive 
Reuse 
PICK THEM OP AT THE 
and defensive linemen begins the process Wednesday. 
LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
Recycle
For the majority of participants, the combine represents 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 5, 1992. 
r=-..
....... _f.~';;::;\___ --~ 
"[[l]_rtle ~CreeK~ 
Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 
I 
2/1 0 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 

272-8124 
7th ANNUAL 
A CONTEMPORARY CAFE WITH A TOUCH OF THE OLD WORLD
MR. STANFORD CONTEST 
Opening February 5, 1992 
Feb. 8th 7:30 PM Washington Hall 
Tickets can be purchased at 
Stop in for a Free Sample of 
LaFortune Box Office or in Stanford Hall, Rooms 119 and 223 for $3.00. 
Our Fresh Ground Coffee 
All proceeds benefit Logan Center. 
February 5, 6, and 7 
This year's contestants 
7:30 AM -2:00 AM 
include: 
1. Mike Donnino 
~ 
2. Bill Kempf OPEN: 7:30AM UNTIL 2:00 AM -MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY3. Kevin Monahan 10:00 AM UNTIL 2:00 AM -SATURDAY AND SUNDAY4.Joel Unk LOCATED IN THE LOWER LEVEL OF LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER5. Chris Peterson 
COME AND CHEER ON YOUR FAVORITE S1lJDS Ul 


Wednesday, February 5, 1992 The Observer page 15 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPill JOHN MONKS 
NOT\C~ ~ [ K＃1>1-\'i j"-W 
Slt>.CKI '3J !-\~ Wl'JW. ~~S O~N. [ 11<'\ NO\ "'Cl S~\lJ:)W Ii\\I:.R I '3:::> l \)R,():)L I *ID l ~I' \1\'i ~ts \.\fo..\f-?:>C,~, s:> t IXlt-lT \JS'f. t>.N~ WJSC.\,.'3 
t>.i t>.\.L 

"Hey ... this could be the chief." Part of a series or Dr. Lewis' experiments on nightless birds 
JAY HOSLER
SPEWIIIER 
Yf.SSI RE' IT'S A 
WHO I.- N IA.i RII Of OPNN5S liND 
HoN65Tf 
CAMPUS

@Edward Julius Collegiate CW8812 
MARCH 6-15 7 NIGHTS ~RAMADA INN F 9 !! BUS TRANS RTA NINCLUDED Contact the Secretary illhe Student Government 2nd Floor LaFortune Student Center a CAll239-7668 DEADLINE FOR SIGN-UPS IS FEBRUARY 7!!! (A $75 DEPOSIT IS REQUIRED AT SIGN-UPS) ~~~~  'JfJ.e tru{\.a.n.poUs Ba.Ue.t 'Jhea.tn~. proudLy presents S[eeping 13eauty :Je6ruary 7, 1992 O'LaugfUin ~uaitorium 8 P':M 'Tu~ts on sa(t at tfie La:Jortunt Infonnatian 'DesK._ ana O'LaugMin '1Jo;r_ Offices Notre Dame/St. Mary's s1udenls $7 General Admission $14 Set~lor Citizens & Children (under 1 0) $12  J.ATMAN THURSDAY, FEB. 6 8 PM & 10:30 PM t(J'ft.. N THE H(J(Jt> s FRIDAY, FEB. 7 ~0~ SATURDAY, FEB. 8 .q,. 8 PM & 10:30 PM 0~-~&.r.S~~ ~-~''" :.-vo 贩.~ '1~ STUDENT UNION BOARD  

ACROSS 
1 Discolorations 7 -Coast (India) 
14 Floating structure 
16 City in Texas 
17 Country in Africa 
18 Concise 
19 Prefix: mouth 20 Very pale 
22 Well-known magazine 23 Actor Gibson 24 Math concept, for short 
25 Young boy 
26 "Beat it!" 
28 Emp 1 oyi ng 
30 -d' Azur 
31 Put the football into play 33 Stirred up 35 Retained 36 Furniture wood 37 Withdraw 40 Favors 43 Vigor 44 Less cool<.ed 46 Prophet 
48 Word in Cagney phrase 
49 Region of India 
50 Organization for 
C. Everett Koop 51 Prayer part 53 Lacking delicacy 55 Cut 56 Dug out canoe 58 Milk glass 60 Repeat 61 Trifling 62 Mexican garb 63 Office workers 
DOWN 
1 Tics 2 Mexican Indians '3 From Luanda 4-veto 5 "... -iron bars 
a cage" 6 Begrime 7 Slander 8 "The Story of 
Boy" 9 Official permit (abbr.) 
10 "Thanks -!" 11 Mussolini, et al. 12 Enliven 13 llent backward 15 Carpentry item 21 Nullify 27 Duped 28-Volta 29 Miss Garson 30 Garden vegetables 32 Prefix: child 34 Clad 36 Disloyalty 37 Ancient Egyptian 
god 38 Ancient Asian 39 Affair need 40 Malayan boat 41 Straighten again 42 Type of class 45 Concurs 47 Badgerl ike 
animals 52 Miss Bayes 53 Good-loold ng 54 Name for a dog 55 Voucher 57 Hiatus 59 Miss Irving 
Wednesday 
4 p.m. Aetna Presentation/reception for all Accountancy sophomores and juniors interested in discovering career opportunities. Sorin Room, 1st Floor, LaFortune Center. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
7 p.m. Film, "Henry V." Engineering Auditorium. Sponsored by Department of English. 
7 p.m. Old Kent Bank and Trust Presentation for all MBA students interested in career opportunities. Alumni Room, Morris Inn. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
LECTURES 
Wednesday 
12:30 p.m. "News Chronicles and Urban Violence: Caracas in the 1980s," Susana Rotker, Rutgers University. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 
4 p.m. "Effective Interviewing," Kitty Arnold, Career and Placement Services. Career and Placement Services Conference Room. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Spinach & Cheese Tortellini Baked Orange Roughy Sirloin Steak Sandwich 

r 
I 
I Sports 
page 16 Wednesday, February 5, 1992 
Detroit Mercy surprises Irish despite Bennett's 38 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
In the world of sports, solid team play will almost always win out over spectacular individual achievement. 
Last night was no exception. 
Despite a career-high 38 points by Elmer Bennett and season-high 15 rebounds by LaPhonso Ellis. Notre Dame (7
10) was unable to overcome sloppy game-long performance in dropping a 72-70 decision to Detroit Mercy (9-11 ). 
"They (Detroit) were sharper than we were from the outset. They got the lead on us and it was a battle for us the entire way. said coach John MacLeod. 
"Elmer had a big night. But I think Elmer will be the first one to tell you that he would prefer to have 18 points and have his other points distributed amongst his teammates rather than scoring a lot of points and our losing. But he did a good job." 
Bennett topped his previous career high of 32, set last Wednesday in a win over DePaul, but was somber after the loss. 
"When you get a five-point lead, you build on it to seven, nine, eleven, and finish off a team like Detroit," said Bennett. "But we came down and had a few key turnovers where we did not have the opportunity at a field goal. That gave them the momentum and they got a 
Lack of fan support evident at JACC 
By MARK McGRATH 
Sports Writer 
Last night, the Notre Dame men's basketball team suffered a 72-70 loss to Detroit Mercy in front of 8,031 spectators. 
lt is widely known that a home game is supposed to be a great advantage. If you listen to people speak about college basketball programs and their fan support, you often hear of teams such as Duke, North Carolina, Kentucky and Indiana. 
Last Saturday at Duke, the Irish were forced to play in front of a capacity crowd at Cameron Indoor Stadium. 
Notre Dame head coach John MacLeod commented on the Duke crowd at the press conference Monday. 
"They are a great college crowd. It's like playing in 
Trgovac named defensive line coach 
Special to the Observer 
Mike Trgovac, defensive line coach the last two seasons at Colorado State, has been named defensive line coach on Lou Holtz's Notre Dame football staff. 
Trgovac replaces Dick Bumpas, who left the Irish staff after only two years in that role to become defensive coordinator at Utah State. 
The 32-year old native of Youngstown, Ohio, previously spent one year as defensive line coach at Navy in 1989-and three additional years in that same role at Ball State (1986
88) where he coached with recently-hired Irish defensive coordinator Milan Vooletich, who had been his position coach when he played at Michigan. 
At Ball State, Trgovac helped seven-point lead. But we should not have been in that position in the first place. 
Indeed, turnovers killed the Irish. Several miscues led to easy Detroit baskets. 
"We had 22 turnovers," said MacLeod. "That's a bunch of turnovers. We seemed to lack the zip we've had in previous games. 
"That's the first time this year that we've looked like that. We looked like we were tired, and that did not look like us." 
Despite their sloppy play, the Irish hung tough throughout the game, and led by seven with only twelve minutes remaining. However, Detroit went on a big run to eliminate that lead. 
After an 18-4 Detroit scoring spree put the Titans up by seven with just under two minutes remaining, Notre Dame went to work to repair the damage. 
Bennett was put at the line with a one-and-one, and calmly dropped both free throws to bring the Irish to within five. After a Titan hoop, Bennett was fouled while shooting a threepointer, and hit two of three free throws, drawing Notre Dame to 68-63. 
Dwayne Kelley, returning from a sprained ankle suffered last week, walked on the ensuing possession, leaving Daimon Sweet to slash to the left side of the basket and hit an eight-foot jumper. 
Down 68-67, Notre Dame 
see HOOPS/page 13 

John Macleod 
Chicago Stadium against the Bulls. They support the team and love the ball club. It's what you want to see. I think that is what college ball is all about." 
Irish players were made known of their presence throughout the game. Irish guard Elmer Bennett felt the crowd was definitely a big factor. 
"They always have a great 
the Cardinals lead the MidAmerican Conference in total defense and rushing defense in 1986, good enough for an overall defense ranked 13th in the nation. In 1988, Ball State led the MAC in total defense and scoring defense, while it ranked second in pass defense. 
A student assistant coach at Michigan in 1981, Trgovac also served as a graduate assistant with the Wolverines in 1984 and '85 prior to moving to Ball State. 
His coaching credentials include involvement with four bowl ~earns-Colorado State in the 1990 Freedom Bowl, and Michigan in the '84 Holiday, '81 Bluebonnet and '86 Fiesta Bowls. 
Trgovac played middle guard on defense at Michigan and earned four letters from 1977 crowd. They (the crowd) can affect the way you play and sometimes they can affect the refs." 
In the Notre Dame basketball media guide, it says "Sellouts are the rule rather than the exception in the colorful, 11,418seat arena." 
Individual games may be sold out, but it has been 10 years since the JACC has had a season attendance average over 11,000. This even includes the 1985-86 season in which the Irish finished 15-0 at home. 
Over the last four and a half year, only 17 of the last 69 games have been sold out. The Irish home record over the same time period is 48-21. 
I see no reason why the games fail to sell out. When teams such as UCLA and 
see JACC/page 13 
through 1980 before graduating in 1982 with a degree in education. A three-year starter for the Wolverines under Bo Schembechler, he was a twotime all-Big Ten selection and a second-team All-American as a senior in 1980. 
He participated on Michigan's Rose Bowl teams following Big Ten championships in 1977, '78 and '80, as well as playing in the '79 Gator Bowl. CBS Sports selected him as Michigan's player of the game against Ohio State in 1979. 
Trgovac graduated from Austintown Fitch High School in Youngstown in 1977, and earned all-state honors in football as a senior. He was also named Northeast Ohio Lineman of the Year in addition to seizing the Ohio state high school heavyweight wrestling title. 
::i 
The Observer/ Marguerite Schroop Senior forward LaPhonso Ellis scored 1 0 points and pulled down 15 rebounds for Notre Dame last night. However, it was not enough, as the Irish were upset by Detroit Mercy at the Joyce ACC, 72-70. 
Baseball salaries are getting out of hand 
ByJIMVOGL 
Sports Writer 
Major League baseball players are still weeks away from spring training, but agents, arbitrators and owners have already played their fair share of pepper in baseball's winter meetings. 
Right now, the busiest people in the baseball business appear to be the accountants. 
It all started in 1919, when owner Charles Comiskey's stinginess inspired the Chicago Black Sox throw the World Series. At the time, commissioner Kinnesaw "Mountain" Landis banned the players to protect the credibility of Comiskey and the game itself. 
Seven decades later, the pendulum has swung to the side of the players. Former commissioner Peter Ueberroth shocked many when he charged owners with collusion to keep player salaries down. What resulted was a $280 million arbitrator's ruling against the owners, who have loosened their pocketbooks considerably since then. 
Major league baseball salaries rose by 103 percent between 1988 and 1991. Last year's payroll, at an average of $891,000, is up an estimated 80 percent over 1990, and with present conditions, salaries will continue to climb. 
Blockbuster contracts have been sprouting up daily. The New York Mets won the Bobby Bonilla auction, agreeing to pay the slugger $29 million over the next five years. Once a player sets a precedent, owners are subject to the domino effect. Barry Bonds, not to be outdone by his former Pirate teammate, will remain in Pittsburgh for around $4.9 million per season; Detroit re-signed first-baseman Cecil Fielder for a mammoth $4.5 million one-year deal. 
Other front-running teams in the in free agency race are Toronto and Los Angeles. Over the winter, the Blue Jays paid the price with hopes of finally capturing that elusive World Series crown. They added two veteran leaders, hurler Jack Morris (two years, $1 0.85) of last year's World Series Champion Twins, and 40-year old outfielder Dave Winfield (one year, $2.3 million). 
The Dodgers, always a prestigious organization, tried to solidify their aging club by snatching from Toronto pitcher Tom Candiotti, who signed a four-year, $15.5 million pact. The Dodgers bankrolled injury-prone Ore! Hershiser for three-years at $10 million, and paid big money to retain Mitch Webster, Jay Howell and Juan Samuel. 
These days, even the most mediocre players are millionaires. Mike Morgan, signed by the Cubs at $12.5 million over four years, is a .500 
see BASEBALL I page11 



