
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 7 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1,1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Kellogg Institute receives $2 million grant from Coca-Cola 
By BECKY BARNES this time in Latin America. The Haime Ros, senior fellow of the 
Assistant News Editor issues addressed will effect the institute and professor of eco­well-being of Latin America in nomics is directing the research the future." part of the program. 
In a collaboration that breaks "We are grateful to the Coca­The institute will work with 
new ground in the merger of Cola Company for this impor­Golden Dome Productions to business and academic worlds, tant and timely support," said produce a series of educational the Coca-Cola Company has University President Father videos for distribution to li­donated two million dollars to Edward Malloy. "It will greatly braries and academic institu­the University's He.len Kellogg enhance the University's in­tions within the U.S. and Latin Institute for International Stud­volvement in a critical field of America, Bartell added. 
ies to be used for a five-year international study." In addition, the institute program dealing with Latin The forums of the program helped to fund Golden Dome American public policy. will address such issues as Productions' filming at this 
The gift will be used to hemispheric free trade, poverty, summer's Earth Summit in Rio, initiate a series of forums human rights, the environment, which wifl be used in an dealing with critical issues U.S. foreign policy and public upcoming forum on the envi­facing Latin America and to and private ethics, Bartell said. ronment, he said. provide 15 four-year graduate They will feature major The fellowships to b-e fellowships for study at Notre decision-makers within Latin awarded are also a major com­Dame, according to Father America along with researchers ponent of the program, Bartell Ernest Bartell, executive in the academic field, including said. director of the Kellogg Institute. Notre Dame faculty members. Many of the current policy 
Bartell said that Coca-Cola makers in Latin America re­approached the University with The forums are designed to ceived their doctoral degrees the idea of a collaboration and reach a variety of audiences, from American universities, "so called the move "a first" on including a popular audience the potential for service to the their part. through Latin American televi­hemisphere out of these 
Many of the ideas for the sion, Bartell said. They will doctoral fellowships is pretty program originated in dis­als-o reach academic and pro­high," he added. cussions with Pedro Pablo Diaz, fessional fields through the director of external relations in publication of monographs that The joint effort between the Latin America for Coca-Cola. will result from the research University and Coca-Cola is 
"We don't expect this pro­papers, seminars and work­"somewhat unusual," said gram to sell an additional bottle shops that will accompany the Bartell. 
lilt:: VU>:l~OIYCI/\JCU\.C rc::at::l>:ll 

of Coca-Cola in the short run," forums. 
Say cheese! 
Diaz told the people of Latin Work has already begun on He sees Notre Dame "at the America. "We are doing it be­the first forum, to be held in the leading edge of collaboration 
Photographer Steve Connelly shot senior portraits yesterday in 
LaFortune. Graduating seniors will see these pictures once again in
cause it is the right thing for a spring and focus on hemi­between the corporate world 
next spring's yearbook. 
company like Coca-Cola to do at spheric free trade, Bartell said. and higher education." 
Marines construct first tent cities for victims of Hurricane Andrew 
HOMESTEAD, Fla. (AP) -250,000. Chiles warned that if schools, which had been origi­''I'm shuffied here, there and Hundreds of Marines built the • Florida primary I page 4 the federal government didn't nally set for Monday. U.S. Dis­there," said Mike Phipps, 49, first tent cities for hurricane pay 100 percent of reconstruc­trict Court in Miami announced who pedaled a bicycle to West victims Monday, a full week FEMA had distributed 80 tion costs, "the state of Florida it would begin no new criminal Homestead Elementary School after Andrew left thousands checks totaling $16,000 by will be totally busted." Prelimi­trials for two weeks because of to collect Red Cross vouchers homeless, and the first two midday, said spokesman Ed­nary damage estimates have problems recruiting jury mem­for food and clothing. "I go to ships of a Navy convoy arrived ward Lecius. started at $15 billion. bers during the cleanup. the Army and ask for a tent, with heavy-duty relief equip­Thousands of others fumed in White House spokesman Mar­There was confusion about they say go to City Hall. I go to ment. traffic jams as Miami-area lin Fitzwater said Bush was who was in charge of the City Hall, they said see the 
But while thousands of south businesses reopened, some for "quite sympathetic" to Chiles' enormous relief effort. An Army Army." Floridians remained without the first time since the hurri­plea, but that no final decision spokesman, Lt. Col. Bill The confusion has led to do­adequate food or shelter, state cane struck. had been made. Reynolds, said U.S. Trans­nated food spoiling and clothing and federal officials bickered "There's no way you can do it President Bush said in portation Secretary Andrew being dumped in the trash after over who was in charge of relief all at once," Gov. Lawton Chiles Washington that he would visit Card was in charge. sitting in mud puddles. Health from the costliest natural said while touring the tent city Florida and Louisiana again But Chiles' chief of staff, Tom officials are worried about rat disaster in U.S. history. on a baseball field in hard-hit Tuesday to check relief efforts. Herndon, insisted the state and attacks and sanitary conditions. 
And throughout southern Homestead, 30 miles southwest He visited both states early last federal agencies were leading The stench of garbage could be Dade County, people waited in of Miami. week. their own programs. "There is smelled by people flying in a line: for food stamps, for mail, The governor raised the es­The hurricane forced Florida no single boss of all bosses," he helicopter more than 300 feet for Red Cross vouchers, and for timate of hurricane-wrecked to postpone Tuesday's state told reporters. over one area. checks from insurance compa­homes to 85,000; Estimates of elections in Dade County, push Many people in the relief nies and the Federal Emer­the number of homeless people back the Miami Dolphins' home pipeline have complained of a 
see CANE/page 4 

gency Management Agency. have ranged from 180,000 to opener and delay opening Dade lack of coordination. 

University to install new telephone system 
By BEVIN KOVALIK phones. one must dial '4' News Writer before the original four-digit number, and to dial intra­
The Llniversity willJp$tall a campus to the administration new phone system next. one must dial T before the semester which will incorpo~ four-digit number. rate ~qth students· ~lld th~ . The system was created to administratlon on one t0I"q accommodate the administra­phone system, according to tion and alleviate increasing Jim Lyphout., MSociate vice problems of the old system, in­president for btisiness M'fairs, cluding bU$Y circuits and a 
"Returning back from shortage of numbers and Christmas break, students will switch parts, Lyphout said. not notice anything dif'ferent/' In fall 1993, new telephones 
Lyphout said, "except fora will be installed with call wait­new method of dialing to both ing, Lyphout said. Call waiting the 283-and 239· exchanges." will he either an optional fea­
The ture available at an additional td use cost, or it will be incorporated 
The Observer/John Bingham 

To protect and to serve 
into telephones and added Members of the Airforce ROTC colorguard marched yesterday in a ceremony to honor Col. Howard 
ho~~~pg

Hanson, who is retiring after 30 years in the Air Force. 
...-----------··----­
page 2 The Observer Tuesday, September 1, 1992 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Make these the best years of your _lif_e_ 
Mom... Dad ...l got in!!! I got accepted to Notre Dame!!! O.K., just calm down, no need to panic. I visited the campus and read the brochures, so I already know all there is 


to know about the Pancho Lozano 
school. .. right? Great. 
Copy Editor 

Now I can get started polishing my mud -------­chariot for that nutty and wacky Spring festival that I keep hearing about. I'm going to follow right in my father's footsteps: Pre-Med with a concentration in Medieval Studies. 
One of the largest mistakes one can make is to decide on a major to early. When I see a Dogbook I have to laugh, seeing all the pre­declared majors. Half of the people I know still don't know what they want to do. 
The second semester of my freshman year I found the evil demon of the corporate raider come upon my soul and quickly changed my major to Business Finance. A year later, I repented and declared American Studies which I thoroughly enjoy. 
With all the different colleges and classes available, I find it best to take a wide range o classes, so as not to limit myself to one subject. 
In exploring the social scene, if you listen to the sophomores down the hall, you might find yourself frequenting South Bend's finest evening establishment, Bridget's, by simply presenting your grandfather's Medicare card. 
There are also the infamous dorm mixers. They are a lot of fun if you can get in the door. And if you really want to get crazy, head up to Theodore's for one of their after hours dance parties. Personally, I prefer to mix with the interesting, yet aloof at Club 23. 
Athletically, RecSports is the best possible way for the high school player who couldn't make the college ranks to stay in shape. There's no pressure and everyone plays for the pure fun o it, which is hard to find nowadays even in prep sports. 
For anyone that cares to get involved reli­giously, there's Campus Ministry or you can become a Eucharistic Minister for your dorm. 
Don't forget you can always join the Dolphin Club, Shennanigan's, Synchronized Swim Club, Big Brother/Big Sister and the Democratic Socialists of America to name a few. 
One of the most adventurous things that a student could do for themselves is to study abroad. Whether it be a semester or a year, your college years are the only time you may have to experience something like studying in a foreign country. 
With all the possibilities open to you at a university such as this, there is no reason to limit yourself. Take in as much as you can and live large. After all, college is supposed to be the best four, or in my case, five years of your life. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 


News Sports 
Becky Barnes Jim Vogl Bevin Kovalik 

Production Systems 
Kim Massman John Halloran Chris Carrigan Cheryl Moser Melissa Cusack 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
CAMPUS Drunk driver injures student 

SOUTH BEND-Walsh Hall resident Maureen Riggs was struck by a car driven by a drunk driver on South Bend Ave. early Saturday morning, according to Lieutenant Larry Blume of the South Bend police. Robert Wilson, 34, of Mishawaka was charged with driving while intoxicated after police determined his blood-alcohol level to be 0.12, said Blume. Wilson ap­proached the intersection of Edison and South Bend Ave. driving eastbound when Riggs ran in front of the car in an attempt to cross South Bend Ave. Riggs suf­fered a broken leg. 

WORLD 

"Crusties" unwelcome in Bath 

BATH, England -The unwashed are unwelcome in Bath. Citizens fear the influx of "new-age travelers," a hippie-like youth culture, is soiling the image of a city famed for Roman baths and gracious 18th century architecture. "Crusties" is the local pejorative for the travelers, who smell bad and hover around the baths and abbey, pestering tourists for change. The effect on tourists is a worry because Bath counts on two million a year. "Bath has become a magnet for them, and its very sad because it's spoiling the beauty of the city and the enjoyment for the visitors," said Caron Cooper, owner of one hotel. 
Of INTEREST 
FORECAST 
Mostly sunny today . High in the middle to upper 70s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Ancl1orage  58  50  
Atlanta  86  64  
Bogota  57  46  
Boston  81  66  
Cairo  93  73  
Chicago  75  52  
Cleveland  70  53  
Dallas  91  73  
Detroit  72  55  
Indianapolis  75  53  
Jerusalem  91  64  
London  61  52  
Los Angeles  78  63  
Madrid  86  57  
Minneapolis  78  55  
Moscow  86  68  
Nashville  86  .  62  
New York  83  67  
Paris  64  57  
Philadelphia  83  68  


Notre Dame Encounter Fourth Day reconvenes Wednesday at 7:15 p.m. in the Keenan-Stanford chapel. 
Freshman Registers will be distributed at the infor­mation desk in LaFortune from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. on Wednesday. Notre Dame or Saint Mary's ID required. 
MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING August 31 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 203,096,160 -0.40 to 228.03 S&P COMPOSITE ·0.81 to 414.03 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -10.26 to 3,257.35

UNCHANGED 593 

GOLD 
+$2.80 to $343.60 oz 
SILVER +$0.056 to $3.73 oz 


Auditions for Shenanigans will be Wednesday and Thursday from 6:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. in 204 O'Shag. Sign up at Room 209 St. Ed's or call 239-5896. More information will be available at activities night. Piano, trumpet, and trombone players are also needed. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

In 1905: Alberta and Saskatchewan become provinces of Canada In 1915: Germany offers written promise not to sink liners without warning. In 1939: German troops storm Poland In 1951: U.N. Security Council asks to end Egyptian blockade on Isreal In 1953: Soviets open Moscow University In 1962: Report indicates world population over 3 billion In 1984: Solar power ray deployed by space shuttle "Discovery" 
Rome  81  66  
Seanle  76  58  
South Bend  76  58  
Tokyo  90  79  
Washington, D.C.  85  66  

INDIANA Charges filed against Granger man 
SOUTH BEND -Michael Barnes, St. Joseph County prosecuting attorney, announced that his office would seek criminal reckless charges against Paul Thurston, 28, of Granger, Ind., in a shooting incident in the parking lot of Linebacker Lounge, 1631 South Bend Ave., early Sunday. Thurston was shot in the right arm by an off-duty South Bend police officer after he ignored or refused requests to drop a loaded shotgun. "The facts are clear, and not in dispute," Barnes said. "The actions of the officer were reasonable and appropriate." 


Cafeteria worker suspected thief 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Mount Vernon School Corp. is considering filing a lawsuit or criminal charges against a cafeteria worker who has been asked to repay nearly $29,000 in missing lunch money. Ailyne Johnson, a cafeteria cashier at Mount Vernon Elementarv School, denies responsibility for the missing cash·. School Superintendent Larry Yazel said the amount of money missing is too large to be attributed to pupils' losing their lunch money and taking their lunches on credit instead of cash. But he said he's not certain Johnson is responsible and doesn't know what, if any, action will be taken. 

----------------------------------~--------------------------------------­
--~-------~------....-, 

Weaver gives up after 11 days
The mass-circulation Bild newspaper said today that tele­vision reporters from the United States and France paid young people in Rostock to give the Nazis' outstretched hand salute before TV cameras. 

squad was investigating. 
The surge in rightist violence has coincided with a huge in­flux of refugees, which this year could double last year's record 

ctiicAG'o 
MOTOR 
CLUB 

WHAT: 
DATE: TIME: LOCATION: ENTRY FEE: DEADLINE: ROSTER: AWARDS: DIRECTORS: 
Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers Auto &Property Insurance 
AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 5922 GRAPE ROAD INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Pjease ask for John O'Malley. 

NAPLES, Idaho (AP) -A fugitive who held off a small army of law-enforcement offi­cers for 11 days at his remote mountaintop cabin surrendered Monday, an intermediary said. The fugitive's son and wife and a U.S. marshal had died in shootouts during the siege. 
Randy Weaver carne out of the cabin with his three surviv­ing children, an infant daughter and two older girls, said James "Bo" Gritz, who has been a liaison between Weaver and authorities since Friday. Gritz said he and an associate accompanied Weaver and his daughters. 
•
run, Jane, run 
(Muffet McGraw's) 
J ..QN..J BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
(Women Only) 
Double elimination 3-on-3 Basketball Tournament with two divisions. 
Sunday, September 13, 1992 Pre-registration 11:00 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Play starts at 1:00 p.m. Stepan Center Outdoor Courts 
$20 per team, absolutely no refunds. 
Friday, September 4, 1992 A minimum or three and a maximum of four players. Prizes will be awarded. Sandy Botham/ Sara Liebscher 239-5420 

INFORMATION: Call N.D. Women's Basketball Office. For an application, stop by the Women's Basketball Office at the J.A.C.C. 
F~nds ra_ised by run: ja~e, run will b_enefit the programs and services of the YWCA of St. Joseph County, mcludmg Domesttc Y10lence Servtces, Self-Sufficiency Services, and Chemical Dependency Services. Volunteers (Court Monitors & Refs) Needed 
ALUMNI
Ill 
SENIOR 
~CLUB 
This Wednesday 
Travel around the world with our great specials and see 
"Access Denied" 
9.-2 
must be 21 yrs. old 
"The situation is over because all of the family are out and they're all safe," Gritz told reporters and Weaver support­ers gathered at a police barri­cade about three miles from the cabin. 
Gritz extended his arm in a Nazi salute as he approached Weaver's supporters. He said Weaver asked him to make the gesture. 
Gritz, a retired Army Special Forces lieutenant colonel and Populist Party candidate for president, said Weaver was put aboard a military helicopter and was being flown to Boise. Gritz said federal authorities had agreed to let Weaver's girls stay with a family that lives in the area. 
Federal officials at the scene didn't immediately confirm Gritz's account. 
Weaver, 44, a devotee of the Christian Identity Movement that combines Old Testament, right-wing and white­supremacist beliefs, and his family were holed up in the cabin since February 1991, when he failed to appear in court on a federal weapons charge. He allegedly sold sawed-off shotguns to an un­dercover agent. 

Authorities traced the family to the cabin and conducted pe­riodic surveillance, saying they hesitated to risk a confrontation because of the children. 
On Aug. 21, six deputy U.S. marshals ran into Weaver, his son and Weaver's friend Kevin Harris during a reconnaissance patrol near the cabin on Selkirk Mountain, about 40 miles south of the U.S.-Canadian border. 
A shootout ensued, and Deputy Marshal William Degan and Weaver's 14-year-old son, Samuel, were killed. 

Weaver's wife, Vicki, 43, was slain and Harris was wounded in a gun battle the next night. Harris, 24, surrendered Sunday to get treatment and was hospitalized in serious condi­tion, authorities said. 
More than 100 federal, state and local law enforcement offi­cers and National Guardsmen had surrounded the cabin since the siege began. 

Taco Bell Presents 
AMERICA'S ROCK 'N' ROLL BAND 
See them two way\ELECTRIC...THEN ACOUSTIC!' 

---------------------------~ 
page 4 r ne uoserver I Ut::::;uay, .:>t::jJU::iiiiUt::l I , I ::1::1.:: 
Florida would h11ve 11,510 federal troops, 4,600 portable

Cane Primaries delayed because of Andrew 
toilets, 15,500 radios, 34 

continued from page 1 portable food kitchens, 638,600 MIAMI (AP) -Florida's pri­lots. Lauderdale area to the Keys. 
Some have urged unified ra­dio frequencies for all relief agencies and a high-profile dis­aster czar, such as retired Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf. 
Card said at a news confer­ence Monday that the relief op­eration could only work with complete state and federal co­ordination, and he conceded there has been "a significant amount of red tape." 
The first tent city was erected on Homestead's Harris Field by 450 Marines who had worked all night. Fourteen cots fit into each of the 108 tents. 
Marines also set up a similar camp on parkland in adjacent Florida City. And an Army unit began building a 40-tent camp in Homestead. None of the three camps will have electric­ity, showers or kitcht;m facilities until at least Tuesday, but the military said it would not turn away anyone seeking shelter. 
Residents of those neighbor­hoods have been reluctant to leave the ruins of their homes because they fear looting. 
The Navy's USS Sierra, a de­stroyer tender from Charleston, S.C., arrived Monday with 15 tons of tools and a crew of ready-to-eat meals, 240,000 cans of insecticide and enough tents to hold 23,570 people. 
It was difficult to confirm how much of that had arrived, in part because traffic was heavy and telephone service had not been restored to all areas. About 525,000 people still had no electricity. 
Thunderstorms hit for a third straight day Monday and steady, seasonal rain was fore­cast throughout September. 
The Federal Emergency Management Agency started handing out relief checks Mon­day in Louisiana, where the storm caused an estimated $400 million in damage. More than 50,000 Louisiana residents still had no power, and the Red Cross said 25,000 people there were homeless. 
The number of deaths blamed on Andrew in Florida, Louisiana and the Bahamas stood at 35. 
In addition, many Floridians have been injured while remov­ing fallen trees, falling off roofs, or stepping on nails and broken glass, and a relief worker struck by lightning while un­loading a helicopter remained in serious condition, emergency officials said 

mary election can be delayed for one week in hurricane-rav­aged Dade County but state of­ficials cannot be forced to seal results in adjoining counties, the state Supreme Court ruled today. 
The ruling came as candi­dates scrambled to get the vote delayed across the state, argu­ing that they weren't able to campaign and that many voters in South Florida won't be able to get to the polls Tuesday be­cause of Hurricane Andrew. 
The high court, in a one-page order issued upstate in Talla­hassee, upheld Dade Circuit Judge Leonard Rivkind's post­ponement of Tuesday's primary until Sept. 8 for Dade County only. 
But the justices rejected Rivkind's order to postpone the release of results from multi­county races that include Dade. The state argued in a brief filed Sunday that Rivkind lacked authority to seal results outside Dade County. 
Several candidates said they would ask a federal court today in Miami to delay the elections statewide. They said Dade wasn't the only county where hurricane damage would pre­vent people from casting hal-
Monroe County, which in­cludes the Florida Keys, asked Rivkind to delay its elections, but Rivkind said a Monroe judge would have to do that. 
Dade County, which includes Miami, suffered the worst dev­astation when Andrew swept through a week ago. By itself, the county casts more than 10 percent of the statewide vote. 
Since the storm, there has been virtually no campaigning in the Miami area. Telephone and mail service have been dis­rupted, news media are preoc­cupied with the storm and relief efforts, and tens of thousands of voters are homeless or without electricity. 
Some candidates also say the storm affects elections else­where in Florida, because more than 3,000 National Guardsmen and thousands of volunteers and state officials helping the relief effort won't be home Tuesday to vote in their own counties. 
"The only way to avoid con­fusion and chaos is to postpone the elections statewide," said Nicki Grossman, a county commissioner who is seeking the Democratic nomination for a U.S. House seat from a district stretching from the Fort 
The primary includes races for the U.S. Senate seat held by Democrat Bob Graham, and 23 seats in the U.S. House. Ten of those seats are vacant: four newly created because of the state's population growth, and six where the incumbents are retiring. 
The election will choose Florida's first black member of Congress since Reconstruction. All three Democrats in one Mi­ami-area district are black: state Sen. Carrie Meek, state Rep. Darryl Reaves and Uni­versity of Miami professor Donald Jones. 
Meek, considered the front­runner, scrapped politicking last week. "We've almost turned the political campaign into a hurricane-relief campaign," said an aide, Haiba Jabali. 
Another Miami-area district will elect the first Cuban-born man in Congress. State senators Lincoln Diaz-Balart and Javier Souto are running in the Republican primary; no Democrats are running. 
A Cuban-born woman, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, is seeking re­election in yet another Miami district. Ros-Lehtinen was first elected in 1989 in a special vote to succeed the late Rep. 

1,000, followed by the USS Opportune, a salvage ship from 
Did you go on a high school retreat?

Little Creek, Va. Five ships were expected by Tuesday. 

Happy 2Ist
Are you ready to take the next step?

The Defense Department said that by the end of the day, south 
Joe

For a closer relationship with God
Phone 
For a better understanding of 

continued from page 1 
Christianity

be incorporated into all telephones and added to the 
For good Christian friendships 
Love, 

overall housing cost, Lyphout 
Mom, Dad, Kristina,
For a way to change the world

said. "We decided that even though 
Marianne, Alicia, the old phone system worked 
Craig, Grandpa, Bo,

well for students, the entire 
At activities night stop by 

Kip, Mikie, and Pipa changed in order to have one 
system might as well be 
The Campus Fellowship booth
main switch for everyone," Lyphout said. 

Catch the Action! 
~ G~ 
Notre Dame vs. Northwestern September 5th 
Round trip bus transportation to Soldier Field (Buses leave at 1 0 am from CCE) 
Tickets: $10 at the La Fortune Info Desk 

Student tickets to game available at the JACC Athletic Box Office 
1992 Activities Night 
Tuesday, September 1 7 pm-10 pm J.A.C.C. (Gate 3) 
Over 150 Clubs & Organizations To Meet Your Interests 
•Music Clubs 
•Athletic Societies 
•Special Interest Clubs 
•Academic Clubs 
•Social/Service Organizations 
•Ethnic Clubs 
•Media Organizations 
Meet New Friends Get Involved in the Spirit ofNDISMC 

Sponsored by: Student Activities, Rec Sports, Club Coordination Council and the Center for Social Concerns 
.....-------------­
-----------------~--------------~ 
lllt:IUU:St:IIVt:ll

Tuesday, September 1,1992 page 5 
'Murphy Brown'claims Emmys 
PASADENA, Calif. (AP) -herself. night. Hollywood's cultural elite "I had to make sure it really "If Jim had a mike, he would showed Dan Quayle what's said that," she said. remind you that 12 children die what by awarding "Murphy Craig Nelson won the comedy every day, killed by guns," Brown" three Emmys, while actor trophy for his starring Bridges said as Brady watched "Northern Exposure," the off­role on ABC's "Coach," and from his wheelchair in the back beat show about a New York Michael Jeter of CBS' "Evening of the auditorium. doctor in the Alaska boondocks, Shade" was named best sup­Valerie Mahaffey, who plays won six trophies. porting comedy actor. Jeter re­the hypochondriac Eve on 
CBS' "Northern Exposure," ceived a 1990 Tony Award as a "Northern Exposure," was whose honors at Sunday's 44th supporting actor in the musical named best supporting actress annual Emmy Awards included "Grand Hotel." in a dramatic series, and writ­best drama series, tied for most Dana Delany took the Emmy ers Andrew Schneider and Di­trophies with "The Simpsons," for best dramatic actress for ane Frolov were honored for which won all technical Emmys her role as a Vietnam War scriptwriting. The series won for voice work. nurse in ABC's canceled "China three technical Emmys on Sat­
"Murphy Brown" -attacked Beach." Christopher Lloyd won urday. by the vice president as glorify­best dramatic actor for the Joshua Brand and John ing unwed motherhood -was Disney Channel's "Avonlea." Falsey, who produce "Northern named best comedy series, "Miss Rose White," about Exposure," earned a writing Candice Bergen won as best Holocaust survivors living in Emmy for the pilot of NBC's ''I'll comedy actress for the second New York, was named best Fly Away." Eric Laneuville was time, and Barnet Kellman W!lS television movie. It also was honored for drama series honored for directing. recognized for directing and for directing in 'Til Fly Away." 
"I would like to thank our best supporting actress, for NBC's "The Tonight Show sponsors for hanging in there Amanda Plummer. Starring Johnny Carson" was when it was getting really dan­Political speeches were not named best variety, music or gerous," said Diane English, limited to Quayle-bashing dur­comedy program. Bette Midler's creator of the CBS series. To ing the 3 1/2-hour show, tribute to Carson on his next-to~ single parents, she said, "Don't broadcast by the Fox Network last show won her an Emmy for let anyone tell you you're not a from the Pasadena Civic Audi­individual performance in a family." torium. variety or music program. 
Bergen got in a few digs at Beau Bridges won the minis­Richard Dysart won his first Quayle for his "potatoe" mis­eries actor award for his por­Emmy for his dramatic sup­spelling, thanking English for trayal of presidential press sec­porting role as the law firm's "writing these great words and retary James Brady in Home patriarch in "L.A. Law." spelling them correctly." Box Office's "Without Warning: Gena Rowlands won best 
ABC's "Roseanne" finally won The James Brady Story." miniseries actress for "Face of a an Emmy, for Laurie Metcalf for Brady was shot and seriously Stranger" on CBS. Hume best supporting comedy actress. injured in 1981 by presidential Cronyn won best supporting The three-year snub of assailant John Hinckley. Since actor in a miniseries or special 
Members of the Colorguard Airforce ROTC honor Col. Howard

Roseanne Arnold's No. 1-rated then, he has campaigned for for his role as Ben in "Neil Si­
Hanson who is retiring after thirty years in the service. Hanson has

comedy prompted Metcalf to stronger gun control, and mon's "Broadway Bound"' on 
been at Notre Dame for four years. 

grab the envelope and read for Bridges did likewise Sunday ABC. 
Ancient riddles of the Sphinx finally uncovered by historians 
GIZA PLATEAU, Egypt (AP)­says yes -and whether the Sphinx. •Many Egyptologists have be­shape of a sphinx and placed in Restorers of the Sphinx are Sphinx was meant as a star at­"The mystery of the Sphinx lieved ancient artists situated a particular spot for a specific uncovering the long-hidden traction or just something to has been revealed," he de­the Sphinx to cover a stone reason. The sculptor says the history of one of the ancient hide an ugly rock -definitely clared. outcropping, an eyesore that Pharaoh had a master plan for world's great, mysterious le­the former. Major restoration of the marred the beauty of the Giza Plateau from the pyramids gacies, even the story of how it Who built the Sphinx? Why? 4,600-year-old monument be­pyramids behind it. Mabrouk to the Nile. was built. How? What did the ancient gan in the spring of 1988 after a found that the Sphinx was "The big man came here and 
Among riddles being an­Sphinx look like? large stone fell from its right meant for a particular spot, ac­told his architects, 'I want a swered are whether the man­Answers to all these questions shoulder. A year later, experts cording to a master plan. sphinx here,"' Mabrouk said. beast crouching at the foot of now are known, said Zahi called in Mahmoud Mabrouk, a •Artists started work on the "Geologists told the Pharaoh the the Giza pyramids originally Hawass, general antiquities di­Cairo sculptor, to apply an Sphinx by outlining the face and rock was weak. He insisted the had a beard -new evidence rector for the pyramids and artist's touch to the massive neck. Architects followed to work proceed." 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paidpositions: 
Day Editor Typist 
Contact Colleen Knight at 239-5303 for more information. 


Please join us 
at the 
WELCOME PICNIC 
for 
ALL Graduate Students 
Thursday, September 3 6:00 -7:30 pm Com1nunity Center 
Fischer, O'Hara-Grace Graduate Residences 
Campus Ministry Fischer Community Center 239-8607 (8:00am-12:00 noon) 

statue. shape the rest of the body. After artists outlined the face, 
Mabrouk did not come to Artists again were summoned stonecutters quarried rock rewrite history, but as he to give the statue its lion­around the Sphinx, fashioning inched his way, removing and shaped body and tail, and to building blocks for the pyramids repairing blocks, peering deep finish facial details. and other nearby monuments. into the heart of the mother •Original stones in the Architects used some of them to rock, he found a far different Sphinx's chest suggest they cover weaker areas of the Sphinx than other people see. supported the weight of a mother rock that became the 
"Nobody writing about the beard. Remnants of a later Sphinx's body. Sphinx, about its dating and beard are now in museums in Master artisans then returned functions, has ever truly exam­Egypt and England. to give the face a Pharaoh's ined it and looked behind its •Sphinx artists worked as a pomp and its subtle smile ­smile," Hawass said. "For the team, producing a masterpiece, and, according to Mabrouk, a first time, we see the Sphinx but over the centuries, their beard. through an artist's eye." skills were lost. In rehabilitating Hawass said the Pharaoh of 
That is the key, Mabrouk said. the Sphinx through the mil­the Sphinx was Chephren, The Sphinx is puzzling to the lennia, restorers dramatically whose reign ended in 2494 B.C. world, but "to a sculptor, it can changed its shape by adding He built the Sphinx and a be understood." smaller stones randomly. temple in honor of a new reli­
These are some of the most Among Mabrouk's most sig­gion begun by his father most dramatic discoveries since nificant insights is that the fa­Cheops, who became in death 
rpstoration began: 

mous statue was carved into the the sun god Ra. 
Tornado costs rise 
WAUTOMA, Wis. (AP) -day to assess damage and de­Damage estimates rose to $8.5 termine whether federal disas­million Monday from a tornado ter aid is warranted. that cut a 21-mile swath Wautoma High School re­through central Wisconsin, opened Monday following the damaging more than 500 summer vacation, but most of homes and businesses. the 400 students were sent out 
One person was killed by the to help with the cleanup, Prin­tornado, and another died later cipal Al Prosser said. of a heart attack. The storm touched down Sat­
Waushara County Sheriff urday evening about nine miles Patrick Fox said about 150 west of Wautoma and cut homes and businesses re­across the southern outskirts of mained without power Monday town. and some highways were closed County emergency director so utility crews could work. It Jerry Miller said the new dam­could be later this week before age estimate did not include all electricity is restored, figures on extensive crop loss. officials said. He said 48 homes and seven 
The sheriff said a 7 p.m. to 8 businesses were destroyed. 
a.m. curfew was in effect again Monday night. Donations of food and cloth­
A four-member team from the ing were piling up, said Kathy Federal Emergency Man­Marks, chairwoman of the agement Agency arrived Mon-Waushara County Red Cross. 


The Observer Tuesday, September 1,
page 6 

~' ~ 
( 

I I 
/ 
/ 

''@o I take 'The Microbioloay of Potehfia/ly 
Patho9enic Befa -Herno/yfic. )+reptococci.' Or I The f=volu+ion of the )ifuafl~n (omedy.' Do I really want to 1\\le with Judy the neat freak-~aia. I can·+ believe I've got u11ti I Mo"clay to dec ide itI'm -a Biolo3y or-a TAeatre rnajor. Have I completely lost it? Will I ever be able to make ~ deci>ion, 
• 

again? 'vlait arrHhute,juJ+ yefferday, I wa) able to picl< a phone company with ab Soh..tely ()O prohlern ...Y~5, there ir hope~' 
W 
ith AT&T, choosing a phone company is easy. 
ones your roommates make. And the AT&T Calling Card 
Because when you sign up for AT&T Student makes it easy to call from almost anywhere to any­
Saver Plus, you can pick from a complete line ~:)i!;ii><t• where. Also, when you sign up for AT&T, your first call 
of products and services designed specifically to fit your is free: 
needs while you're in college. Whatever they may be. And with AT&T, you'll get the most reliable long Our Reach Out~ Plans can save you money on distance service. AT&T Long Distance, no matter where and when you call. Call AT&T Student Saver Plus. It's the one college decision that's Manager will separate your AT&T Long Distance calls from the easy to make. 
If you're an off-campus student, sign up for 
­Am' Student Saver Plus by calling 1800 654-0471 Ext. 851. 
ATs.T 
©1992 AT&T. "You'll receive ooe S3 AT&T L.D. Certificate equivalent to 22 minutes ol dirett-dlaled, roast-to-coast, night and -'<end calling based 



oo rates elfettive 6/8/92. You coold get more or fewer minutes depending on where or when you call. Offer limited to ooe certificate per student. 
111~ uu::;~rv~r

Tuesday, September 1,1992 page 7 
Election '92 
Clinton refutes GOP job claims 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) ­Bill Clinton on Monday dis­missed Bush campaign efforts to ridicule the Democrat's plan for 8 million new jobs, saying Republicans lack credibility on the issue and ran the economy "into the ditch." 
Clinton offered a reminder that Bush had promised to create 15 million jobs in his first four years "and come up 14 million short." The Demo­crat~ proposal to generate 8 million jobs over the next four years is highlighted in a Clinton TV ad that began airing Mon­day. 
Republicans "have no credi­bility to say anything about jobs," Clinton told reporters in Little Rock, where he was tending to state business and meeting with Hispanic support­ers on get-out-the-vote efforts. 
"They don't know how to create jobs. All they know how to do is give more money to the richest Americans, bankrupt the country and run the econ­omy into the ditch," Clinton said. He noted that Bush four years ago promised 30 million new jobs over eight years. In Bush's first 3 1/2 years, the number of non-farm jobs inched up just 923,000. 
Clinton said just 100,000 new jobs over the last four years had come from the private sector, adding, "we produced 

almost that many private-sector jobs in Arkansas." 
The Democratic nominee brushed off suggestions that Republicans had successfully put him on the defensive in the last two weeks with their re­peated attacks on his tax record. 
"This week, we'll be talking about some different things," Clinton said. He noting that by some estimates, Bush would have to impose more than $1 trillion in spending cuts to fi­nance an across-the-board tax cut and other campaign promises. Bush has not stated what areas would be cut. 
"They want us to wait til Jan­uary with baited breath to see what they're going to do," 


916 E-rsk1ne Ploza • South Bend. lndiaoo 46614 (219) 2990600 
J!lvaifa6{e for 

Personal Portraits• Passports • Identification Graduation Pictures Always at a reasonable price 
Just 5 minutes from campus 
Clinton said. "There are only a few options and ... I think we ought to explore that this week." 
The debate over taxes, jobs and economic growth also sur­faced elsewhere on the cam­paign trail Monday: 
•While 
President Bush was at the White House focusing on hurricane relief efforts, cam­paign chairman Robert Teeter took aim at the Democrats' ad touting Clinton's record as Arkansas governor. "We're very happy that Gov. Hinton appears to be willing to run on his record," Teeter said at a Washington news conference. "Gov. Clinton's record is one of taking a state ... with some dif­ficult problems and leading it nowhere." 

•Democratic 
vice presidential candidate Al Gore, campaigning in California, said the Re­publicans were wrongly sug­gesting Americans must choose between jobs and protecting the environment. He added, "you can create jobs and have economic success while protecting the environment and leading the way toward environmental responsibility." 

•Vice 
President Dan Quayle, campaigning in Alabama, re­peated his assertion that elect­ing Clinton would mean higher taxes, insisting the Democrat "thinks you create jobs by raising taxes." 


Clinton said he welcomed a tax debate, because Arkansas voters had approved various tax increases for education and economic development. 
"If they want to have this election on their tax record against mine, on whether peo­ple got their money's worth here as opposed to the national government, that's fine with me," Clinton said. 


Chicago:MUSEUMS, ART INSTITUTE,TUEATERS SHOPPING ,RESTAURANTS, NITE ur:E MichiqanCity:OKTOBERFEsr-SEPT'a'R ST"-7TH LIGHTHOUSE PLACE OUTLET CENTER 
PorterCounty: CAMPING, HIKING. TilEDUNes NOTRE DAM& 
"\JS 
llOltlHWESTERN 
SEPTEMBER 5TH WE GO DIRECT TO THE GATES OF CHICAGO's SOI.D/ER FIEJ.O. 

COMFY· CONVENIENT• GREAT PRICE·ItATS PII~IN6l 
Calll-800·356·2079 Station·2702W. Washington 
-----[li'ill@ii\illjll]----­
anew ~ lyvvot> 
B\lS.Qi!cVlfCJn all five states ill Missouri handily, goal was to rally 
.........,', ..,own consarvatl~~ 
~Aiabi!U:U;awill be.there, th~ O:m.th'•>ri:ll be there and Amer• be there," Quayle told ott,;, crow(l that Ari·,.,J.i,¥h.A . mairi.(y Of 
schoolChildren . voting age. 
'''"'~"(!"'·'·"'" .. ''n.r' you~ wor~,. dedication. your enthu· 
·win,tbe e 

Gore faults trade status 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) ­Democrat Al Gore on Monday faulted the Bush administration for offering favorable trade status to China when the coun­try has "a record of human rights violations as long as your arm." 
The Democratic vice presi­dential candidate also criticized the White House for claiming that his ideas on the environ­ment would threaten American jobs. Gore said President Bush and Vice President Dan Quayle have done little to put Ameri­cans back to work or to pre­serve the nation's natural re­sources. 
The Tennessee senator said he and Clinton "disagree with Bush and Quayle when they continue to grant most-favored­nation status to one of the worst communist dictatorships still in the world with a record of human rights violations as long as your arm." 
Congressional Democrats are nearing a showdown with the White House over China's trade status. Products from nations with most-favored-nation status are assessed the lowest possible tariffs, and the designation is normally given only to the best trading partners. 
The House last month ap­proved legislation to deny MFN status to China and passed a separate bill to require that Bush certify significant progress in the human rights, trade and weapons areas be­fore granting normal trade status and the lower tariffs it confers. 
The Senate has yet to act on the legislation, but has passed similar bills before. However, Bush has vetoed every one of the measures and Congress has yet to muster the two-thirds majority needed to overturn a Bush veto. 
In Oakland, Gore toured American Brass and Iron, a foundry whose workers said their company was being hurt by China "dumping" its prod­ucts in the United States, flooding the American market with underpriced goods. 
"We have supported mea­sures that would tell China, look, we want you to come into the family of free nations, we want you to stop violating the human rights of your citizens. We want you to stop the unfair practices you are now engaged in," Gore told workers at the plant. 

Mandatory Meeting for all Irish Gardens Employees on Tuesday, Sept. 1 at 7:00 at the store. Questions? 
Call283,2670 (Maureen) 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, September 1 , 1992 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Sports Editor •.....•...... Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Prayer and worship keep family together 
The American family has ex­must be given the highest pri­perienced many changes since ority in its being addressed and the end of World War II in corrected by the Federal, State
Br. Edward Courtney 

mood, appearance and in mo­and local governments and
Guest Columnist 

bility. their interested agencies, which It has been estimated that is the cause of so much sorrow, only 7 percent of families in tragedy and disruption of family 
and a new mystery into the 

America today still function in life.
magnificent union of the mem­

days of yore. One judge has ~haracterized
bers of a family.

May their numbers increase these twin evils as common­
Special attention must be de­

and hopefully history will re­place today in the United States
voted to the welfare of our chil­

peat itself. In my opinion, one which is a very sad commentary
dren by developing in them a 

of the changes affecting family indeed on the image of this
profound esteem for their per­

life today has been the depar­country and the honor, respect,
sonal worth and dignity, and 

ture from the home of the wife veneration and inviolability we
their innocence must be assid­

during the day in joining her traditionally upheld for our
uously guarded and protected.

fellow sisters to the big city and women and children. 
Children offer their own 

employment there. We may possess an arsenal of
unique gifts and charisma in 

Family solidarity will be weaponry that staggers the
the building and in the strength

achieved when a spirit of self­imagination and billions for
of the family and even the 

sacrifice, patience forgiveness, defense but it will ill behoove us
sanctification of the parents.

and a spirit of reconciliation is if we are inadvertently
We, as parents, are rightly

present. Every family has ex­embarked on a course of self­
concerned about the friends 

perienced hurts, slights, and and associates our destruct.
the of 

misunderstandings and the like, The fall and the destruction of 
children and may inadvertently

for we are imperfect creatures the once mighty Holy Homan
overlook what is beamed into 

living in a very imperfect world. Empire is one sad and tragic
our homes via TV, radio, the 

The values learned in the example of what befalls a soci­
cinema and certain periodicals.

home are nurtured by the co­ety when the cancer of dry rot
The innocence and the 

operation of church, synagogue sets in within. 
integrity of our children and 

and the school. One's devel­Finally. The American family
our homes must be jealously

opment in the home, one might has witnessed and weathered
guarded and protected from 

say, is our individual destiny. many a storm in her 200 year
what parents consider to be 

The family will love its local history. We as a family of na­
unseemly, improper and not 

church and synagogue and will tions will meet the challenges
suitable family entertainment,

take an active interest in its facing this nation as we enter
and on the other hand, parents

ministry. The family serves the the 21st century if we work to­
should support what is good,

nation's needs, respects its laws gether as brothers and sisters
healthy, uplifting and whole­

and will promote its prosperity under the Fatherhood of God
some for the family. 

for the common welfare of all of and its peace. Parents are natural
the 

Both the family and society our families.
teachers and role models for 

are inter-dependent for an in­The old but ever new maxim
their children and will develop 

crease of life and of liberty. is true today as it was 200 years 
in them a sense of right and 

The world-wide importance of a ago that: "The family that
wrong conduct and the true 

universal faith in the value of prays and worships together
meaning of freedom. Parents 

family life is so obvious that it is will stay together." 
as well as children have a need 

so often taken for granted as Br. Courtney is a Holy Cross
for love, understanding and 

we search for values, peace and Priest who lives at Columba
patience.

the meaning of life in a very Hall.
The criminal abuse of our 

complex and dangerous world. 
women and children has 

Every promise and every ex­
reached epidemic proportions

perience offers a new insight 
in the United States today and 

DOONESBURY 
MR. Ra?Ffl<N ~ OH YOUUW HAV& YOU 6(JTA R£PORT? MR. ' LbAV&M& ffliJMINIJT&S 7 IP OH... 5UR& ... 
REf)-H&f?0l?AP. WV& l0600VCR. FIN& ... ~RN:z IXJN1 K/55 J8ff'5 R£PORT I 

/ M&,Of<AY? 
~~~...,.lf/ITH 
\ ·~ YOU. 
~\ 
IAJiAT?.,. ai, OI<AY, 50N... 
""' 
Personal rights lost in opinionated smoke-screen 
Dear Editor, 
As many members of the Notre Dame community are aware, the Administration has banned smoking in the Univer­sity buildings. 
While many people are upset by this policy, it seems to have made others extremely happy. That you are one of the satisfied ones, Mr. Regan, does not bother me in the least (The Observer, Aug. 25). 
Your reasons for being in fa­vor of the ban, however, seem somewhat smug and self-righ­teous. 
You ignored the issue that the Administration and many other people consider most impor­tant: health. 
While I agree that the rights of an individual extend only until they infringe upon the rights of another, I think that your evocation of .Justice Holmes is quite out of plaee in your artide. 
You think that people who smoke are inconsiderate, but you claim that you are "not concerned about possible risks" to your health. 
The restriction on free speech that you mention, though, is directly concerned with health. Shouting "fire" in a crowd is not only in­considerate, but dangerous. Indeed, that people might dis­like what others say is not at all an issue in limiting free speech. 
Along the lines of considera­tion, you claim to dislike "the horrid odor" you must inhale when around a smoker. 
If rights were restricted by personal opinion, though, they would not exist at all. I person-
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

ally would suggest a ban on certain types of music, ugly people, bad food, and people who like to spout rhetoric from a soap box. 
Of course, all these things are subject to opinion, as is the description of cigarette smoke as bad smelling. 
You can, of course, fall back upon the argument that ci­garette smoke is dangerous, in spite of your lack of concern for this aspect of it. 
I hope, however, that such an attack is confined to smoking in enclosed public space. If you wish to extend the ban on smoking to outdoor areas, as the University is considering, neither opinion nor health can be cited as reasons to do so. 
To cite these would mean a ban on automobiles, factories, and the ethanol plant we all know and love. In addition, you would sound a bit too much like the environmentalists you abhor. 
I ean do nothing but protest your attack on smoking in gen­eral. Opinion simply cannot be a basis for the removal of an­other person's rights. 
That you would attempt to use your preference for just that, and that you go so far as to say that cigarette smoke disgusts you more than just about anything else, it is a sad indication of the mindset of the community. 
Christopher Hatty Dillon Hall 
Aug.27,1992 
YOUSfZM fJO YOU KMJIAJ A BIT PR&­HOW7D65TBY ocaJP/&0 TH&HAMM&R. 
TOOAY, MR. BRIJTHCRS IN R&[)ffl?N. MARlO' 
I 3'? 
'As we finally raise males and females to be equal humans, must we also pass along the male vices that kept the females enslaved for so long?' 
Humpty Dumpty 
Get offyour wall(((!})). submit: 


The Observer 

Center for Social Concerns Paid Advertisement 

ND students tutor in the neighborhood served by St. Hedwig's Neighborhood Center. 
Make this Year a Journey into Unknown Territory 
And the desire was as pure as the polar snows; to go, to see. 
Ursula K. Le Guin SUR 

I read Ursula Le Guin's short story SUR just as this summer was coming to a close and I was thinking,of our imminent return to campus. I am always amazed at how often the stories that I read seem relevant to my particular situation. It didn't take me long to connect Le Guin's story of nine women's journey to the bottom of the world to my anticipation of the coming academic year. During the coming year we will encounter difficult terrain and we will be required to share the journey with unlikely traveling companions. We will, no doubt live through some long nights and see some spectacular views along the way. 
So, we begin our expedition to go and to see. Le Guin's story is full of the courage of the voyagers. They were not willing simply to see things that others have already seen or go places that have become tourist traps. Le Guin says, "We hoped to go a little farther and see a little more; if not simply to go and to see." Le Guin's words became my end-of-summer challenge. I decided that I would make this year's journey a special one by going a little farther and seeing a little more. I challenge all of you to do the same. 
The Center for Social Concerns offers programs that will take you farther down the academic road to places that are not heavily traveled. We invite you to go into South Bend to meet fellow travelers who are full of important information and fascinating stories. There is most surely an excursion into our city that will suit your particular interest. You could help out at the Center for the Homeless or work at Logan Center. You may go and see how children live in our community by working for Headstart or by tutoring with the Neighborhood Study Help Program. During fall or spring break you can choose to go and see Appalachia or Washington D.C. or Chicago. At Christmas time consider the Urban Plunge, an experience that takes you a little farther and allows you to see a little more in your own home town. 
Just as Le Guin's characters needed each other to provide warmth and companionship as they traveled into the Antarctic region, you will need accompaniment along the way. All of the programs that the Center for Social Concerns offers include the opportunity to reflect with others about your experience as you go and see. You will find companions for your journey and a safe place to rest at the Center for Social Concerns. 
I invite you to join me in this year's journey into unknown territory. Let the Center for Social Concerns help you map out your trip. Le Guin's nine women came home full of stories that changed their lives and the lives of the people they loved. By having the courage to go and to see you will add volumes to your personal story and the stories of those you touch along the way. Maybe in the end you will have collected material for a story that you can share with others that will become for them a challenge just like Le Guin's story was for me.. Good luck as you take off on this 1992/93 voyage. 
-Kathy Royer 

Center facilities include ... 
. a coffee house . a large multi-purpose room . seminar rooms . a resource room . a library and . a reflection room 
Contact the Center receptionist to reserve rooms for lectures, films, liturgies, meals, and other gatherings. 
WELCOME! 
The Center staff joins me in inviting you to spend a few minutes reviewing the opportunities outlined in these four pages. 
Again and again we hear from alumni in law, business, medicine, engineering, counseling, etc., that many of their service, social action, and experiential learning involvements have been extremely valuable to them in their careers. 
Please explore the challenges open to you. Stop in at the Center or give us a call! 
Director 

DID YOU KNOW? 
Academic credit is available for the experiential and service-learning seminars listed below. These, and the additional courses listed on p. 3, have been primarily developed and coordinated by Center staff. They are offered through these academic departments: Theology, American Studies, Gender Studies, Psychology and Sociology. See p. 3 for a brief description of all of these credit-bearing courses and seminars. 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS (2 credits) (THEO 360) 
NOTE: 1 credit is available for each of the seminars listed below. 
URBAN PLUNGE (THEO 376) 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR (THEO 361) 
WASHINGTON, D.C. SEMINAR (THEO 363) 
LEADERSHIP ISSUES SEMINAR (THEO 369) 
CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR (THEO/SOC 362) 
WOMEN, CHURCH, AND SOCIETY SEMINAR 
(THEO/GEN ST 364) 

MEXICO SEMINAR (THEO 366) 
j~
:.: 

A Spring Retreat for Seniors brought together students involved in service and social action during their years at Notre Dame. The Retreat was co-sponsored by the Center and Campus Ministry. 
University of Notre Dame Box F Notre Dame, IN 46556 
1992-93 DIRECTORY OF SERVICE AND SOCIAL ACTION GROUPS UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Amnesty International Best Buddies Big Brothers/Sisters Center for Basic Learning Center for the Homeless GILA Community of Caring Council for Fun & Learn Dismas House Environmental Action Club First Aid Service Team FoodShare G.A.L.A. Habitat for Humanity Headstart Hispanic-American Org. Model United Nations NAACP Council for Retarded NISDC Neighborhood Study 
Help Program Overseas Development 
Network Pax Christi Recyclin' Irish Right to Life SAVE (Student Advocates 
Volunteers for the Elderly) STEP (Student Tutorial Education Program) Volunteers for Language 
& Literacy Women United for Justice 
& Peace World Hunger Coalition World Peace Action 

The Observer Center for Social Concerns Paid Advertisement 
Groups Enrich Community and Students, Too 
CHILDREN 


Objective: To build one-to-one relationships between Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students and mentally handicapped people Needs: Ten Notre Dame Students who are interested in developing a friendship with a mentally handicapped person which would require approximately four hours every two weeks Contact: Indira Tyler -283-4023 
-:/,l~
llo--/l //\ 

Objective: To provide a setting for shared time and friendship between a student and a child Needs: Student volunteers. Contact: Chris Zepf-283-3129 Mike Nugent 
CILA (Community for the International Lay Apostolate) 
Objective: To live a Christian service-oriented life-style through education, service projects, spiritual and social activities Needs: Volunteers to attend weekly meetings and to plan and participate in projects. NOTE: CILA members also volunteer at El Campito Day Care Center Contact: Kathleen McBride -283­3888 Philip Tomsik -, .. 
COMMUNITY OF CARING 
Objective: To work with local schools to develop a community within the schools that will strengthen values and develop self­esteem of middle school students Needs: Volunteers to spend one hour/week at a local middle school Contact: Erica Cain-239-4855 Jacquelyn Kyles-283-4003 
COUNCIL FOR FUN AND LEARN 
Objective: To provide a recreational/socialization program for 6-16 year old children Needs: Volunteers on Saturday from 9-11:30 a.m. Contact: Steve Cozzolino -273-0891 Todd Kazmierski -283-3302 
HEADSTART 
Objective: To prepare young 
children for school Needs: Volunteers to work two hours per week in Headstart classrooms with children on a one-to­one basis Contact: Tamara Lyzinski-283-1336 

Kathleen Glynn ­(2nd Sem.) 
• MADISON CENTER 
Objective: To create a healing environment for emotionally disturbed elementary school age children Needs: Volunteers to work in the classroom on a one-to-one basis Contact: Laurel Eslinger-234-0061 
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AND PROBLEM PREGNANCY 
*MADISON CENTER S.O.S. PROGRAM Objective: To provide cnsts counseling and education for victims of rape Needs: Volunteers to respond to rape crisis situations and to give ongoing support to rape victims Contact: Laurel Eslinger-234-0061 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
Objective: To provide support and counseling to women who are experiencing problem pregnancies Needs: Volunteers to work with 
clients Contact: 234-0363  Women's Care Center  - 
ECOLOGY  

ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION CLUB 
Objective: To organize the collection of used aluminum Needs: Volunteers to help plan for collection Contact: George Smith -273-2433 
RECYCLIN' IRISH 
Objective: To continue to develop a recycling program for the entire University Needs: Volunteers to help with organization and implementation of a university-wide recycling program Contact: Randy Davis ­Maureen Brown ­


ELDERLY 

SAVE (Student Advocates Volunteers for the Elderly) 
Objective: To provide services to the elderly in the South Bend community Needs: Volunteers to visit nursing homes or elderly people in the community on a weekly basis Contact: Katie Bergin -283-277 4 
HANDICAPPED 
CHILDREN 

BEST BUDDIES 
Objective: To build one-to-one relationships between Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students and mentally handicapped people Needs: Ten· Notre Dame Students who are interested in developing a friendship with a mentally handicapped person which would require approximately four hours every two weeks Contact: Indira Tyler -283-4023 
COUNCIL FOR RETARDED 
Objective: To provide one-to-one support to clients of Logan Center Needs: Volunteers to work with Logan clients to be scheduled individually Contact: Juliet Dickmann -283­4825 
NORTHERN INDIANA STATE DEVELOPMENT CENTER 

Objective: To work with mentally retarded children and adolescents who are residents of NISDC Needs: Volunteers to work on projects and one-to-one with NISDC residents Contact: David Tarantino -283­1651 Kevin Keefe -283-1739 
HOMELESS 
CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS Overnight Volunteers: 

Objective: To stay with guests at the Center for the Homeless during the night Needs: Four volunteers every night from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. 
Daytime Volunteers: 

Objective: To help with the program for the Homeless during the daytime hours Needs: Volunteers to serve meals, take care of the desk or spend time one-to-one with residents 
Volunteers to transport food: 

Objective: To collect fresh food from donors and deliver to Center for the Homeless Needs: Volunteers in morning from 8-9. No vehicle necessary Contact: Kathy Royer -239-5293 
see GROUPS I page 4 
SERVICE/SOCIAL ACTION GROUP LEADERS -1992-93 
Amnesty International  Greg Behr  283-4107  
Arnold Air Society  Leslie Palmer  283-4233  
Best Buddies  Indira Tyler  283-4023  
Big Brothers/Sisters  Chris Zepf  283-3129  
Mike Nugent  
Center for Basic Learning  Robin Hoban  283-3799  
Center for the Homeless  
CILA  Kathleen McBride  283-3888  
Philip E. Tomsik  
Community of Caring  Erica Cain  283-4855  
Jacqueline Kyles  283-4003  
Council for Fun & Learn  Steven Cozzolino  273-0891  
Todd Kazmierski  283-3302  
Council for Retarded  Juliet Dickmann  283-4825  
Dismas House  
Environmental Action Club  George Smith  273-2433  
First Aid Service Team  Fernando Gutierez  239-2188  
FoodShare  Stephen Egan  283-2054  
Joe Gavigan  283-2055  
G.A.L.A.  
Habitat for Humanity  Robert Benedetto  283-4267  
Katie MacNeil  273-2202  
Headstart  Kathleen Glynn  

Hispanic American Org. Model United Nations NAACP NISDC 
Neighborhood Study Help Program Overseas Development Network Pax Christi Recyclin' Irish Right to Life SAVE 
STEP 

Volunteers for Language & Literacy Women United for Justice & Peace World Hunger Coalition 
Tamara Lyzinski  283-1336  
Israel Verver, Jr.  283-1721  
David Certo  283-1069  
James Taliaferro  283-1481  
David Tarantino  283-1651  
Kevin Keefe  283-1739  
Paul Chisholm  283-3321  
Andrew Dinan  283-1881  
Michael Pries  283-2380  
Tara Deutsch  
George Smith  273-2433 .  
Emily Neufeld  
Randall E. Davis  
Maureen E. Brown  
Bill Keen  283-4259  
Claire Johnson  283-4220  
Katie Bergin  283-2774  
Erika Lindhjem  283-4035  
William Bruening  
Mirka Blomme  283-2679  
Erin Duffey  283-1822  
Kara Luckew  283-2639  


Center for Social Concerns Paid Advertisement The Observer 
ACADEMIC COURSES/EXPERIENTIAL SEMINARS 
URBAN PLUNGE 

The Plunge is a 48-hour immersion into the kind of life most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have never seen. 322 students made an Urban Plunge during early January 1992. 
The purpose of the Plunge is to experience injustice, apathy and poverty; to increase awareness of people who are working to improve these situations; and to witness and reflect on ways to address Gospel concerns regarding the oppressed. (1 credit) An Information Meeting will be held at the Center on October 6 and October 14 (6:30-7:00 p.m.) 
Working Side by Side: APPALACHIA SEMINAR 

Each semester break approximately 90 students travel to the Appalachia region of Kentucky and West Virginia. Students spend the week working side by side with the people of the mountains. Through physical labor and person-to-person contacts, students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces that influence the lives of the mountain people. (1 credit) 
An Insider's Look: WASHINGTON SEMINAR 

Approximately 24 students travel each semester break to the nation's capital to explore crucial issues of the day from a variety of perspectives. In Washington, they meet with the decision-makers, members of congress, ambassadors and church leaders. On-campus preparation, on-site experience and follow-up reflection combine to create a unique learning opportunity. (1 credit) 
CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR 

This seminar explores the rich cultural heritage of Chicago's ethnic neighborhoods and immigrant tradition. The corresponding problems of urban life and racism also are examined during the semester break experience. (1 credit) 
WOMEN, CHURCH AND SOCIETY SEMINAR 

This seminar is designed to acquaint students (during a week of involvement in Chicago) with the challenges of women in society and the church. This seminar studies gender issues and commitment to community and service. (1 credit) 
LEADERSHIP ISSUES SEMINAR 

The Leadership Issues Seminar is designed for students working in a leadership capacity promoting community service or social action. This course offers a multidisciplinary examination of leadership and empowerment issues and the opportunity to examine personal leadership styles in the context of ministry/service. (1 credit) 
ADDITIONAL EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES 

include, as resources allow, service-learning trips to the L'Arche Daybreak Community in Toronto, to the rural south, and to U.S. -Mexico border region. Student leadership plays a key role in developing unique learning opportunities. 

1st Row: Kathleen Maas Weigert, Faculty Liaison/Academic Coordinator; Ardis King, Secretary; Don McNeill, C.S.C., Director; Sandy Barton, Administrative Assistant; 2nd Row: Eugene McClory, Associate Director; Carol Porter, Secretary; Patty Flynn, Secretary-Receptionist; Sue Cunningham, Coordinator: Urban Plunge and Summer Service Projects; 3rd Row: Kathy Royer, Coordinator: Service/Social Action Groups; Mary Ann Roemer, Coordinator: Senior/Alumni Programs; Jay Brandenberger, Coordinator: Peace and Justice Education. The work of the Center is also facilitated by student managers and student assistants, by resource persons, and volunteers. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C., is the liaison of Campus Ministry with the Center. 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS 

The Summer Service Projects are eight week sessions of community service facilitated by Alumni Clubs all over the country. 133 Notre Dame students took part this summer. A tuition scholarship is awarded to each participating student. The scholarships are provided by Notre Dame Alumni Clubs and the James F. Andrews Endowment. Every project is different: students work in shelters for the homeless, soup kitchens, homes for abused children, spouse abuse shelters, Headstart programs, camps for inner city children, etc. (2 credits) An Information Meeting for the 1993 SSP will be held at the Center on December 1 and January 20 (6:30-7:00 p.m.). 
THEOLOGY COURSES ­
Don McNeill, C.S.C., Ph.D. and Staff-Reading and reflection on issues raised by service experiences. Courses include: "Church and Social Action," "Theology and Community Service," "Reflections on Service," "Theology and Social Ministry." (3 credits per course) 
OTHER JUSTICE AND PEACE COURSES -Study and ana'lysis of contemporary issues of justice and peace. 
Jay Brandenberger, Ph.D. -"Children and Poverty." 
Kathleen Maas Weigert, Ph.D. -"Introduction to Peace Studies," "Peace Movements in America," "Women and Men: War and Peace," "Power and Change in America." (3 credits per course) 
LATIN AMERICAN OPPORTUNITIES 

Students study in Mexico for a semester in the Program in Global Community of Cuernavaca. Also, in late may, the Center sponsors a one­credit Mexico Seminar. 
Community Service Commissioners 1992-93 

Alumni  Bret Feranchak  364  1248  
Steve Senna  219  1082  
Badin  Katie DeBrunner  234  3802  
Julie Epping  338  3629  
Breen-Phillips  Carolyn A. Seraphin  203  1269  
Lynn Vandermeulen  137  1675  
Carroll  Bill Keen  303  4259  
Cavanaugh  Vincent Casingal  
Dillon  Brian Bernasek  141  1615  
Farley  Kelly Riordan  142  4095  
Jessica Ovel  
Fisher  Matthew Healey  203  1945  
Flanner  Mike Palmer  902  1521  
Grace  Dave Ring  817  3883  
Howard  Elizabeth A. Connors  424  2468  
Sarah Ireton  409  2494  
Keenan  David Leonard  235  3280  
Jon Lindberg  
Knott  Allison M. Dilling  434  4758  
Lewis  Kate VanRooy  306  3850  
Michelle Jennings  
Lyons  Patricia Malloy  122  1499  
Kendra Pickens  
Morrissey  Blane T. Shearon  223  3527  
Bill Merritt  464  3685  
Pangborn  
Pasquerilla East  Kellie Abbott  611  3794  
Christina McAdams  711  4308  
Pasquerilla West  April Gerber  204  2985  
Maren Schulte  242  2904  
Kristen Herring  312  2849  
St. Edward's  Mark Berrettini  406  1590  
Jason Woodward  106  3758  
Siegfried  Juliet Dickmann  234  4825  
Andrea Sullivan  407  4878  
Sorin Hall  Deitz Lefort  303  2226  
David Grover  256  4302  
Stanford  Seung Beom Yu  326  2035  
Walsh  Colleen A. Malloy  329  2639  
Zahm  Tim Rinehart  218  1307  
Chris Howard  218  1307  

PEACE AND JUSTICE PROGRAMMING 
The Center sponsors or co-sponsors a variety of creative peace and justice programs throughout the year, including films, panels, invited speakers, performing arts and theme weeks (e.g., "A Call to Peacemaking"). Each opportunity focuses on an important issue of social concern (e.g., racism, poverty, the environment). 
POST-GRADUATE SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES 
Workshops, seminars and other meetings enable seniors to consider the integration of service into their chosen careers and/or the advantages of a year of two of volunteer service, e.g., Peace Corps, Holy Cross Associates. Contact Mary Ann Roemer (239-5293). 
SENIOR RAP-UP GROUPS 

Approximately 150 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seniors participate in senior rap-up groups. Notre Dame seniors are invited to join about eight to ten of their classmates to form a senior rap-up group. They gather approximately once a month in a faculty or staff home where they plan and prepare a meal followed by informal discussion that focuses on the plans and concerns that students have as they approach graduation. Contact "' Mary Ann Roemer (239-5293). 

Center for Social Concerns Paid Advertisement
I -. 
r 
' 
r I I 
t 
i 
~ 
f 
I 
r 
' 
, 't 
r 
The Faculty and Center Activities 
The Observer 


Faculty participate in Center programs in two basic ways. First, they serve as resource personnel for many of our programs. Some are speakers in the FRIDAY FORUM series. Others serve as Urban Plunge facilitators, opening their homes for an evening discussion to provide students an opportunity to reflect on and begin the analysis of their Urban Plunge experience. Some host the Senior Rap Up groups, groups that meet in the faculty's home four or five times in the spring semester to converse about their undergraduate years at Notre Dame and to examine how social concerns are and will be integrated into their lives upon graduation. Others serve as advisors to the many service/social action groups, etc. 
Second, they participate in programs held specifically for them. There is the FRIDAY FORUM series, a faculty-led talk discussion that meets three times each semester to talk about major themes. The fall semester is focusing on "Aging in America." There is the annual faculty workshop, to be held this year on October 20­21, with the emphasis on "Option for the 90s: Experiential Education." Occasionally there are reading groups, Urban Plunges for. faculty, and other opportunities. 
Faculty interested in getting involved in any of these opportunities may contact Dr. Kathleen Maas Weigert (239-5319/5322). 
Groups
~ 
Continued from page 2 
HOUSING 

HABITAT FOR HUMANITY 

Objective: To provide affordable housing to low­income people Needs: Volunteers to renovate houses Contact: Robert Benedetto ­239-4267 Katie MacNeil ­
HUNGER CONCERNS 

FOODSHARE 
Objective: To feed the hungry in the South Bend area with food left over from the ND dining hall Needs: Volunteers to transport food after dinner Contact: Stephen Egan ­283-2054 Joe Gavigan -283-2055 
OVERSEAS DEVELOPMENT NETWORK (ODN): 
Objective: To respond creatively to problems of world hunger and poverty Needs: Volunteers for meetings and projects Contact: Michael Pries ­283-2380 Tara Deutsch ­
• rid hvngerta.\;hoo 
Objective: To educate the community on issues related to world hunger and raise money for hunger relief Needs: Volunteers to fast every Wednesday for the noon meal in the dining hall Contact: Kara Luckew ­283-2639 Craig Anzilotti ­
PEACE AND JUSTICE CONCERNS 
4 AMNESTY 
INTERNATIONAL 
Objective: To advocate human rights, work to free prisoners of conscience, stop torture and execution Needs: Volunteers for letter­writing to publicize in community and raise funds Contact: Greg Behr -283­4107 Michelle Borb-283-4117 
CILA (Community for the International Lay Apostolate) 
Objective: To live a Christian service-oriented life-style through education, service projects, spiritual and social activities Needs: Volunteers to attend weekly meetings and to plan and participate in projects. NOTE: CILA members also volunteer at El Campito Day Care Center Contact: Kathleen McBride ­283-3888 Philip Tomsik ­
G.A.L.A. (GRADUATE ASSOCIATION FOR LATIN AMERICA) 
Objective: To foster interest in Latin American issues Needs: Members interested in meeting regularly to Oiscuss issues and organize programs to inform the N.D. community about the Latin American situation 
HISPANIC-AMERICAN ORGANIZATION 
Objective: To raise the awareness of the Notre Dame community about the Hispanic American experience and to serve the local Hispanic community 
Needs: Volunteers to serve 

-------------------------in__s_o_u_t_h~B_e_n__d_'s~H-i_s_p_a_n_i~c
community, in neighborhood 

r 
FAITH AND ACTION: COLLABORATION WITH CAMPUS MINISTRY 

The desire for a deeper intergration of faith and action in the lives of Notre Dame students has led Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns to work towards a more creative and public collaboration. In moving towards this goal, Rev. H. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C., (right) serves as Campus Ministry's liaison with the Center, and Eugene McClory as the Center's liaison with Campus Ministry 


centers, day care centers, parishes and clinics Contact: Isabel Verver ­283-1721 
MODEL UNITED NATIONS 
Objective: To participate in simulated United Nations conferences around the United States Needs: Members who are interested in learning about global issues and how the United Nations works to address these issues Contact: David Certo -283­1069 
NAACP 

Objective: To raise the awareness of the Notre Dame community about the African American experience and to serve the African American community in South Bend Needs: Volunteers who are interested in working in the African American Community in South Bend in neighborhood centers and parishes Contact: James Taliaferro­283-1481 
OVERSEAS DEVELOPMENT NETWORK (ODN): 
Objective: To respond creatively to problems of world hunger and poverty Needs: Volunteers for meetings and projects Contact: Michael Pries ­283-2380 Tara Deutsch ­
f
Pax Chri.5li 

Objective: To raise consciousness on peace and justice issues Needs: Volunteers for bi­weekly meetings Contact: Emily Neufeld ­George Smith -273-2433 
~ 

WOMEN UNITED FOR JUSTICE AND PEACE
' 

Objective: To educate the community on the power of common sisterhood to understand responsibilities in the world today and take appropriate action Needs: Volunteers to plan programs and attend meetings Contact: Mirka Blomme ­283-2679 Erin Duffey ­
RIGHT TO LIFE 

Objective: To educate the Notre Dame community 
La Casa provides one of many tutoring sites in the Michiana area. 
about the issues of abortion Needs: Volunteers to plan programs and attend meetings Contact: Bill Keen -283­4259 Claire Johnson -283-4220 

WORLD HUNGER COALITION 
Objective: To educate the community on issues related to world hunger and to raise money for hunger relief Needs: Volunteers to fast every Wednesday for the noon meal in the dining hall Contact: Kara Luckew ­283-2639 
WORLD PEACE ACTION 
Objective: To bring together the groups and organizations that are concerned with issues of human rights Needs: Volunteers who are interested in issues of justice and human rights Contact: William Albertini ­283-1310 Elizabeth Trigg -283-4559 
PRISONERS 
j~j_ ~ 
OIS~IAS, Inc. 
Objective: To operate a community of former prisoners and students Needs: Students to live in the community and volunteers to cook and help maintain house Contact: Kathy Royer -239­7862 
TUTORING/LITERACY cJJNTER FOR BASIC LEARNING SKILLS Objective: To teach literacy skills to adults on a one-to­one basis Needs: Volunteers to work two hours one morning per week Contact: Robin Hoban ­283-3799 
COMMUNI1Y OF CARING 
Objective: To work witl,l local schools to develop a community within the schools that will strengthen values-and develop self­esteem of middle school students Needs: Volunteers to spend one hour/week at a local middle school Contact: Erica Cain-239­4855 Jacqueline Kyles -283-4003 

NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP PROGRAM 

Objective: To tutor area children from kindergarten through high school Needs: Volunteers for one hour twice a week Contact: Andrew Dinan ­283-1881 Paul Chisholm­
*ST. HEDWIG'S NEIGHBOR­HOOD CENTER 
Objective: To tutor children from the neighborhood served by St. Hedwig's Needs: Volunteers to tutor two hours per week Contact: Kathy Royer -239­5293 
STEP (Student Tutorial Education Program): 

Objective: To tutor and provide support to young people who are in the South Bend Juvenile Detention Center Needs: Volunteer tutors two hours per week minimum Contact: Erika Lindhjem ­283-4035 William Bruening ­
VOLUNTEERS FOR LANGUAGE AND LITERACY 
Objective: To tutor newcomers to the U.S. as well as those who have not had the opportunity to learn to read and write Needs: Volunteers to tutor in basic English conversation, reading and writing. Meet for one to two hours weekly to teach literacy and/or once a month for conversation groups Contact: Anne Montgomery -289-9083 
MISCELLANEOUS 
FIRST AID SERVICE TEAM 
Objective: To provide first aid service at a variety of 
N.D. events Needs: Volunteers to complete course and to provide service Contact: Fernando Gutierrez­
*Denotes a community service agency recruiting student volunteers; not a Center group. 


---, 
. ~ 
. j 
Accent 

Tuesday, September 1, 1992 page 9 
Literary Excellence 
Notre Dame Magazine celebrates 20 years of educating alumni andfriends 
By SARAH DORAN 
Accent Writer 

Most alumni magazines are designed to keep their readers abreast of what is going on on campus. Many often heavily focus on staged photos of big donors presenting checks and of old grads enjoying reunions. For two decades, Notre Dame Magazine has informed alumni with articles that go beyond campus events by addressing issues relevant to the lives of their readers. 
"Our purpose is to provide continuing education to alumni and friends of the university," said the magazine's Editor Walton Collins, a 1951 alumnus. "That gives us the opportunity to do a lot of different things. As well as being about the University, we feel our hunting ground, so to speak, is any issue that well educated men and women would find interesting. 
"We try to remind them of the feeling they felt when they were in school and at the same time try to address what people are encountering in their lives," said Collins. 
The quarterly magazine, which celebrated its 20th anniversary last spring, addresses issues by attempting to deal with the moral dimensions of contemporary issues. The issues that are featured in the magazine can be as far­ranging as television in our society to the place of women in Catholicism to "Woody Allen and the Meaning of Life." 
The magazine has a full time staff of three editors, a writer, and an art director. Collins and his staff of four produce the 80-plus pages of the magazine from their fourth floor offices in the main Administration building. It features a great deal of material from freelance writers, but gives preferences to alumni contributors, Collins said. 
Among those who have contributed to the magazine in the past are Charles Kuralt, William Pfaff, James Reston, Max Lerner and Ira Berkow. 
The four sections of the magazine are Notre Dame stories relating directly to the university, the features section (the largest of the sections), the alumni section, which includes both the classnotes and an alumni profile, and the perspectives section. 
Notre Dame Magazine's formula has produced quite a winning combination, Collins said. Its accomplishments have been noted by numerous awards, including last year's silver medal for general excellence in university magazines, gold medal in writing which were both awarded by the Council for the Advancement and Support of Eduction (CASE). 
The magazine has also twice won the Sibley Award from CASE as the outstanding alumni magazine in the country and in addition the Catholic Press Association's Best Catholic magazine award. 
The keys to success are simple, Collins said. 
"A dozen universities produce this kind of magazine," he said. "To do it, you need first a vice president for university relations who is committed to this kind of publication. Second, you need a president who is tolerant of a magazine that presents the institution in an honest light. We're not out looking for a scandal, but we will tell people what this place is about and they can then make their own judgements." 
Collins has been the Editor of the magazine for the past nine years. He had Qeen employed in the journalistic field prior to coming to the helm of the magazine. During his stay he has seen the magazine grow and change but also has seen it stick to its goals of informing well­educated readers of interesting topics in a morally influenced way, he said. 
One hundred fifteen thousand copies of the magazine are printed each quarter and distributed free of charge primarily to alumni, friends of the University, benefactors and parents of students, he said. 


Single White Female fails, not frightens, viewer 
By PETER BEVACQUA 
Film Critic 
"Single White Female," is a psychological thriller about two women who live with an unspoken bargain intended to help both survive in the vast and often frightening canyons of New York City-a bargain that goes quickly and terrifyingly awry. 
The film stars Bridget Fonda as twenty-something software expert Allie Jones, and Jennifer Jason Leigh as Hedy Carlson, who moves not only into the apartment, but into the most personal aspects of Allie's life. 
Barbet Schroeder's ("Reversal of Fortune," "Barfly") latest endeavor at first sight would seem to appeal to the viewing public of mainstream 1990's America. It is a film which questions the plight of sanity throughout society, as well as the degradation of traditional social mores. The setting, New York City, is ideal: a failing metropolis where everyone is a stranger in a strange land. 
However, the film, despite a valiant effort from soon to be megastar Bridget Fonda, fails miserably. Schroeder's effort of selling cheap thrills with pop psychology is not able to produce any degree of suspense. 
Jennifer Jason Leigh's character is noticeably deranged from her initial appearance on screen. Therefore, the viewer is not surprised when she begins her transformation into a murderous fiend. Leigh tries to replace the loss of 
"Single White Female" 
produced and directed by Barbet 
Schroeder 
starring: Bridget Fonda and 
Jennifer Jason Leigh 
** 
(out of a possible five) 
her twin sister by forming a delicate symbiotic relationship with Fonda. The formation of this relationship is too obvious and too predictable. 
Schroeder tries to use Freudian 

themes in a way which would ~•·• enable him to produce a thriller the I likes of Alfred Hitchcock's "Vertigo," or Roman Polanski's "Rosemary's Baby." However, while Photo courtesy of Columbia Pictures cinei?atic psychological gl!rus such Allison Jones (Bridget Fonda, i.) admires the earrings that her new roommate, Hedra Carlson as HI~chcock and ~olanski are able (Jennifer Jason Leigh), has given her in the psychological thriller "SINGLE WHITE FEMALE," a 
to ~timulate _th~ mtellectu~l andColumbia Pictures Release. 
ratwnal cunosity of the viewer, Schroeder's film appeals shamelessly to the basic instincts. 
Shroeder's previous works have created memorable Hollywood personas 
(i.e. Mickey Rourke's performance in "Barfly"). With "Single White Female," Schroeder is at the mercy of the Hollywood "system." Candidly revealing all the subtleties, which if hidden would have allowed for a better film, he creates a predictable and tiresome tale 

. . of socml_ hystena. . 
The viewer never nee_ds to questiOn th~ou?hout the fllm, n~r IS the ps~che of Lmgh s character ~mbiguo~s -th~s cre­ates ~ psychologi~al_ t~n~ler without questwns and a~btgmt~es IS analogous to a Western without six-shooters and 
horses. . . . . 
Two _bng?t spots shme m this otherwise ~Ismal portray~! of recent Hollywood Impotency: Bndget Fonda and Luciano Tovoli. Bridget Fonda's 
work is of merit, but even Michael Jordan needs four other warm bodies out there with him. 
The best element of "Single White Female" is the camera work of Luciano Tovoli. Tovoli transforms the New York City apartment building where all the "action" takes place into a gothic artifice which conveys through its mere presence an air of macabre distortion. It is a shame the camera ever goes inside. 

-
page 10 The Observer Tuesday, September 1 , 1992 
Cooper preparing Ohio St. tor opener against Louisville 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) ­Despite a 2-9 record a year ago, Louisville's fans didn't run out and snap up all of the tar and feathers in town for a postsea­son party with coach Howard Schnellenberger. 
John Cooper is pretty sure he wouldn't be handled so chari­tably by Ohio State's fans if the same thing happened here. 
"I don't know where I'd be, but I wouldn't be coaching here," Cooper said with a laugh during his first weekly news conference of the season Monday. ''I'd be fishing some­place, I guess." 
Cooper's 17th-ranked Buckeyes host Louisville Saturday in the season-opener for both teams. A year ago, Ohio State escaped a late surge by the Cardinals to win 23-15. 
The Cardinals were without quarterback Jeff Brohm, who broke his leg nine days earlier in a loss to Tennessee. But fifth­year senior Erik Watts stepped in and passed for 303 yards ­most in the fourth quarter ­and two touchdowns. 
Now Brohm, a farmhand with baseball's Cleveland Indians during the summer, is back and Louisville is itching to prove last year was a fluke. Sixteen starters join him for a fresh start. 
"Last year was a disappoint­ing year for them," Cooper said. "Those things happen." 
What the fifth-year Ohio State coach is most concerned about is his own team. Expectations are high, with 1990 Big Ten freshman of the year Robert Smith returning to the fold along with 14 starters. 

"We're going to mix it up a little more on offense," he said. "We want to pass the ball more effectively, but not at the ex­pense of our running game. We still want to be known as a physical offensive and defensive football team, controlling the line of scrimmage and running the football. But if people gang up on us like they were doing late last season, we want to have the ability to throw the ball." 
That means fifth-year senior Kirk Herbstreit, who has started two games in his career, must have a big season. 
Cooper also said that he would give his defensive front more of a free rein to harass the opposing quarterback. 
"We're going to turn the linemen loose a little bit more up front and make some things happen," Cooper said. "We hope to get more turnovers, particularly more interceptions than we got last year. That was a disappointing statistic, we only got 13 interceptions last year. Hopefully we can do a better job with that." 
Opposing quarterbacks won't be happy about that. A year ago, outside linebacker Jason Simmons set school season marks for tackles for a loss (18.5), sacks (10.5) and lost yardage (103). 

Raymont Harris, penciled in as the starter at tailback, is nursing a sprained ankle and hasn't practiced the last nine days. Cooper said if Harris is not healthy, Smith would likely get the call. 
Smith bolted from the team a year ago after charging Cooper and assistant coach Elliot Uzelac did not have enough concern for academics or play­ers' health, allegations they denied. After running track last winter for Ohio State, Smith re­joined the Buckeyes three weeks after Uzelac resigned under fire. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from tO a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

HELP!!!!  FOR SALE:  NEED TIX FOR MICH. & PENN  FREE MONEY  $$$MICHIGAN$$$  
NOTICES  I REALLY need a ride home to  ONE IMAGEWRITER II PRINTER FOR APPLE OR MAC.  BADLY. 284-5410.  If you can provide me with 5-10 MICH GAs for 5th year reunion  I WILL PAY LARGE SUMS OF$$$ FOR G.A.'s &  
CLEVELAND or surrounding area  BRAND NEW.  NEVER USED.  De$$perately  Call Jeff @ 283-3306  STUDENT MICHIGAN TIX  
For more information and  this FRIDAY, Sept. 4th.  $150 OR BEST OFFER.  $$eeking ticket$$ to  PLEASE, PLEASE HELP ME  
assistance regarding the  CALL TODD X1634  ALL home football game$$...  Call  NEED MICHIGAN GAs  $ $ $ CALL x 2 4 5 4 $ $ $  
investigation of financing, business  Can leave anytime in the  Sean•2263  WILL BEAT ANY OFFER  
opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER  afternoon.  TICKETS  GA's For Purdue, Stanford, BYU,  PLEASE HELP KYLE 234 9433  Hey Niff  
urges its readers to contact the  Are you heading my way???  and Boston College For Sale or  There will be a mandatory meeting  
Better Business Bureau of  Can help with gas and tolls.  PLEASE  HELP:  Trade For Michigan.  289-3273  ALUM NEEDS TIX FOR MICH.,  for all Irish Gardens employees on  
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  My dad would like to see one  STANFORD, PENN ST. CALL DAN  Sept. 2 at 7:00 pm at the store.  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ Call 284-5254  Michigan game before I graduate  Need tix for P.S.U.  (312) 868-0009.  
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­ and need tickets.  Mir.h, Pur  If you have any questions contact  
9121 or 800-439-531-3.  NEEDED BYU and Michigan GA's.  Call Mike 283-1161  $$bob x3398  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Ma,ureen at ext. 2670.  
Please call 284-4308.  Will pay crazy cash for ND  
·sENIORS•  NORTHWESTERN TIX FOR SALE  Help!  NEED 3 GAs for  -Michigan GA's. Call Paul at  Hey! I Do You Play Drums??  
DISORIENTATION WEEK  PLEASE! Help me. I need two GA's  CALL JOE X1760  PERDUE game!  289-6648.  
TUES: CLASS DINNER@  for Michigan. $$ X3762  Call Jessica@ •1325  Well then give us a hand. Call Rob  
MACRI'S  I NEED ND FOOTBALL  Badly Need MICHIGAN Tix!!!!  at 1441 and help us start an original  
WED: BRIDGET'S SENIOR NITE  WANTED: BIG USED BACKPACK  TICKETS.272-6306  $$ Need Mich Tic $$ GA or Student  Please Call 273-1758  band. Thanks for reading  
THURS: BECON BOWL & free  FOR  EURO TRIP.CALL CARRIE  -Name Your Price  Ask for Doug  this, good night.  
T-Shirts  AT X2812 TO TALK$$.  Call Jim 273-2969  
FRI-SAT: NORTHWESTERN  DESPERADO NEEDS Ml TICKET  This ad is for the JACC  
ROADTRIP--game ticket,  BONNIE DOON  Help I Dave, that great guy from  JUST ONE!! Student or GA.  administrators who, in their "infinite  
transpo,Second City, & hotel-$65  HAS POSITIONS AVAILABLE  I WILL BUY YOUR TICKET  Grace(last year) who got me many  Call Tim x4116  wisdom," did the following to the  
@ LaFortune INFO. DESK  FOR SERVERS, COOKS  APPLICATION$$  tickets for Pitt. and Tenn.-WHERE  seniors who camped out for tickets:  
AND FOUNTAIN  283-1161  Michael  ARE YOU? Call Liz x3783 or 218~  4 sets GAs For SALE! 272-7034  • Made a perfectly orderly line move  
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!!  Apply in person to:  itself 90 degrees.  
BUY 'EM NOW  f0-5:30 everyday  52446 Dixie Way No., South Bend  NEED STANFORD GA's, MICH &  HELP!! I Need 4-5 GAs for Nov.  • Made the same line move back 90  
Pandora's Books 808 Howard  4615 Grape Rd., Mishawaka  PSU Student tix.  Will Pay $$ or  7 BC game.  Please call x3799.  degrees about an hour later, and  
3 blks. from campus 233-2342  DESPERATELY SEEKING 2  exchange livestock!  Rich x3367  Thanks.  • Forgot to post any guard/security  
Responsible person seeking extra  MICHIGAN GA'S. WILL OFFER  at two of the ticket gates (allowing  
lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship  cash needed to deliver cakes.  FIRST BORN CHILD. CALL LISA  WILL TRADE 2 MICH GAs FOR 2  WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  people who were just arriving to get  
invites you to the  Approx. 45 min/day. Must own car.  (COLLECT) AT (509) 534-4227.  PENN ST. GAs. MATT MICKLE  GOOD ND\MICHIGAN GA's  tickets before people who had spent  
1st Group Meeting  Call Jim or Pat x3367 or x3360  (713) 332-6709.  2773097  the night in line). I KID YOU NOT!!!!!  
7:30 pm, Wednesday, Sept. 2  TWO USC TICKETS FOR SALE  A suggestion from all of us who  
Siegfried Chapel fun, music, bible study & more  FOR RENT  CALL AMY@ 272-6264  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE  Trade 3 tix and get 4! Give me 3 Mich GAs I will give you 2 Brig.  spent the night sleeping on concrete, the next time you try this,  
? , call Kevin at 1384, Lisa at 4290  $$$  PAY LOTS of MONEY $$$  AT 618-439-3338.  Young + 2 Boston or Penn GAs.  call this special number first:  
BED AND BREAKFAST. PRIVATE  For Many MICH TIX!!  Call271-5618 any day before noon.  1-800-GET CLUE!!!!!!  
·sENIORS•  ENTRANCE. 291-7845.  Call ED at  X1002  TICKET$$ TICKET$$ TICKETS$$  
NORTHWESTERN ROADTRIP  $$$1  DEPERATELY  N E E D  Will trade 2 PENN GA's for 2 MICH.  To ALL students in last semester's  
Sept. 4-5  BED "N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  !HELP! My little bra & his 3 friends  6  G. A. 's  FOR  MICHIGAN$$$  Lisa 284-5419.  PHIL 302:  If you need any help or  
219-291-7153  are flying out from NY and I  please, please, please, please  just someone to talk to, I'm STILL  
Includes:  REALLY need to get them 4 Mich.  CALL X2454  NEED 1 OR MORE STANFORD  here for you in carrel #828 -T.H.  
Roommate needed for Oak Hill  tickets! PLEASE HELP! call Julie  GAs. JIM 273-9059  
Game ticket in ND Student section  condo. All utilities included. Rent  x4042  HELP A SENIOR! Need 4-5 GEN  SHORT ON CASH ?  
Transportation  negotiable. Call Jon or Mark at  or STD tkt for U MICH.  Last Hope  NEED MICH  T ICKET STUDENT  
Hotel Downtown Friday  272-8563.  •••••oiane's big sis is coming out for  for family I Tim @289-5196  OR  GA  Stop by MORRISSEY LOAN  
Second City Ticket  the Michigan game-she is  ANN  X3604  Mon.-Fri.: 11:30-12:30  
Roomates wanted: quiet, clean 2-3  unbelievably cool. She lives for ND  Will pay big bucks for NO-MICH  1st Floor LaFortune  
•5s·  BR house. $150 plus util. Lv msg for  football, and will live for you if you  G.A. tix. Call Joe@ 287-4561.  ••TRADE••  O'Hara Lounge  
David 239-6963  sell her a student or GA  TRADE ME YOUR TWO MICH-ND  
•purchase tickets @LAFORTUNE INFO DESK· I FOR SALE LOST/FOUND I RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR,  ticket--please please please! I!! Price negotiable. Call 4059. Thanks!***** ST. MARY'S STUDENT BOOK  HAVE 2 NORTHWEST GA's NEED MICH and/or WHOLE STUD. BOOKS 288-1027 -MARK  GA'S FOR MY TWO NWSTRN-ND GA'S AND LOTS OF MONEY. -GREG X3844­Will give First Born and CASH  30 day loans up to $250 @ 1% interest Make great money in your extra time as a representative for The  
•  TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE  AVAIL  KRISTIN 277-6274  I NEED 3 MICHIGAN GA'S  for MICH Tix!!!  Even more for  Collegiate Investment Association.  
LOST: BLACK CARRYALL BAG.  SEMESTER 69.95.  13" COLOR,  DESPERATELY  SEASON TIX!!!  KAY x3489  Minimal time required. Great  
It contains my VISA, glasses, and  TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE  Dad needs 2 GAs for Stanford.  WILL PAY  opportunity to make extra money  
many other things important to me.  SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY  He's willing to pay big $$$. Call  CALL MIKE AT X 2209  $$$ Need 2 GA Stanford tix. $$$  and add good experience to your  
If found, please take to International  FREE.  COLLEGIATE RENTALS,  Chris R. at  x1179.  call Michele @3194.  resume. For details call (708) 533­ 
Student Organization on the second  272-5959  WANT TO MAKE A BUCK?  0765.  
floor of LaFortune.  Desparately Need 5 Purdue and  I REALLY NEED MICH. TICKETS!  Wanted:  
***********CARPETS**********  2 Penn State GA's.  WILL PUT DEPOSIT ON TICKET  STUDENT TIX BOOKLET  MARGE  
ANDY we have found your  ""**********CARPETS**********  Call Dan at 273-1497  BOOK. CALL JON DEBARTOLO  or APPLICATION $$$  
FOXTAIL--call Emily  ***********CARPETS**********  AT x3587.  Also, I need 4 MICH STUDENT TIX.  Need BC tix, student and GAs. Call  
***********FOR SALE**********  WILLING TO TRADE 2 TICKETS  Dave, 4274  283-4271  
PLEASE HELP ME!!! I lost my  In excellent condition and very  TO NO'S HOME GAME ON SEPT.  $$$$  
- great-grandmother's long silver necklace with a Virgin Mary charm.  cheap. Please call 289-5563.  5 FOR 2 TICKETS TO ANOTHER HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL 317­ NEED 3 MICH TIX!  CALL KIRSTIN  Senior Northwestern Trip for sale $65.00. Call x2810  Top Weekend Quote from 225 Grace (The Patch.):  
Great sentimental value. Reward.  776-2639.  X4281  "I WIN!!"-Joe  
#4419.  HUGE SCREEN TV  ND Alum needs 2 reasonably priced  Close second:  
4SALE  OKAY, I'M BEGGING ... My parents  HELP!! Need 1 MICH GA  Michigan tix.  Please call (408)492­ "JC is my roomate!!"-Marty  
WANTED  BEST OFFER CALL 283-1254  will pay big for Mich. tickets! $$$ Call#4419.  Call Scott at x4243 Good price  0660 X248 or (415)579-1432.  ND CREW's new motto:  
2 Northwestern tickets for sale  We do less AFTER 9am than most  
LOCAL GOLF PRO SHOP NEEDS  ••••••NEED Ttx•••••••  Call Ellen x4294  people do all day.  
PART-TIME HELP. CLOSE TO  Need 2 student tix for Michigan.  PLEASE PLEASE.  
CAMPUS. CALL CHAD AT 282­ SR TIX APPLICATION FOR SALE  Please call Ann at x2821.  I NEED MICH. GA'S.  N.D. ALUM NEEDS 4 MICH GA'S.  To the Badin Babes  
3727 FOR MORE INFO.  45 YARD LINE BEST OFFER  CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303  WILLING TO PAY OR TRADE ANY  (JAF,JMM,CK,L?): Gnarly day at the  
CALL MARTY X1165  Will TRADE 4 PURDUE GAs for  BEFORE 4 PM,  OTHER HOME GAME GA'S.  Dunes! Thanx for lunch! -CR & JC  
4 BOSTON COLLEGE GAs.  OR 272-3753 AFTER 5.  PLEASE CALL (312) 327-9853 ASK  
FLUTE/SAX TUTOR FOR 15­ Please call Robin at x2867.  SCALPERS NEED NOT CALL  FOR PAUL OR LEAVE A  Well, Bill this past weekend was not  
YEAR-OLD. 1 HOUR PER WEEK, TRANSPORT ARRANGED. CALL EVE_. 287-7449.  COMPUTER: Epson Equity dual floppy, monitor, printer. $550 or offer. Lv msg for David at 239-6963  Have 4 Penn St. GA Will trade for 4 Mich GA Call Bo at 3502  NEED 2 MICH. GA'S. CALL 708­251-4502 & LV. MESSAGE, OR MARK RUST AT 708-982-1776.  MESSAGE. PERSONALS  I  for us. I am wishing for that day to come soon. I can't wait! Love, Jen  
MOTHER'S HELPER TO CARE  How much for da cat?  
FOR OUR 3-YEAR-OLD. MUST BE  DORM FRIDGE-$5Q-271-1532  WANTED: GA'S/STUDENT TIX  I NEED 2 GA MICHIGAN TICKETS  FENCING CLUB: Meets 6:30-8:00,  
FRIENDLY, WITH EXPERIENCE  FOR ANY/ALL HOME GAMES­ I HAVE MONEYI  Fencing Gym, JACC. Beginners  
AND OWN CAR. PART TIME  DO U NEED PLANE TIX TO  MICH. A MUST! ALUMNI IN  CALL SUSAN 289-6485  welcome. First meeting September  HAVE BLOCKS OF  
DAYS, SOME EVENINGS. 232­ CHICAGO OR N.Y. FOR SEPT. 5?  DESPERATE NEED!! 708-843­ 1st. Equipment provided. $80 per  NORTHWESTERN TICKETS FOR  
2201.  CALL EILEEN 283-2773.  6947.  NEED TIX TO ND-MICH  x3373  semester.  SALE.  CALL MIKE X1611  


FOOTBALL 

Alln,_ EDT AMERICAN LEAGUE Eaat Dlvlalon 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Toronto 75 57 .568 z-5·5 Won 2 41·23 34·34 Baltimore 72 58 .554 2 z-6-4 Won 2 36·29 36-29 Milwaukee 70 61 .534 4112 4·6 Won 1 41·25 29·36 Detroit 63 69 .477 12 5-5 Lost 2 30·34 33-35 New York 61 71 .462 14 z-6-4 Lost 2 33·32 28-39 Boston 60 70 .462 14 5·5 Won 1 39-29 21·41 Cleveland 59 71 .454 15 z-4-6 Lost 4 34·34 25-37 West Division 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Oakland 79 51 .608 z-7-3 Won 3 40-22 39·29 Minnesota 73 59 .553 7 5·5 Won 2 39·29 34·30 Chicago 68 61 .527 10 112 5·5 Lost 2 43-25 25·36 Texas 65 68 .489 15 112 z-6-4 Won 1 31·38 34-30 Calnornia 59 72 .450 20 1/2 z-5-5 Lost 1 32·29 27-43 Kansas City 58 71 .450 20 1/2 Z·4·6 Won 1 34-27 24-44 Seattle 54 77 .412 25 112 5·5 Lost 2 31-36 23-41 
NATIONAL LEAGUE East Dlvlalon 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Pittsburgh 74 56 .569 z-6-4 Won 2 38·24 36-32 Montreal 71 59 .546 3 z-7·3 Won 2 34·31 37-28 Chicago 67 63 .515 7 z-8-2 Won 4 35-27 32-36 St. Louis 64 65 .496 9112 z-7·3 Won 4 34·29 30-36 New York 60 68 .469 13 7-3 Lost 34-29 26·39 Philadelphia 53 75 .414 20 z-3·7 Won 31·36 22-39 West Division 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Atlanta 76 52 .594 3·7 Won 1 39-24 37·28 Cincinnati 71 59 .546 6 4·6 Lost 5 41·20 30-39 San Diego 69 61 .531 8 5·5 Lost 3 40-28 29-33 Houston 60 70 .462 17 7-3 Lost 1 35·29 25-41 San Francisco 59 71 .454 18 2·8 Lost 6 36-33 23-38 Los Angeles 53 78 .405 24 1/2 1-9 Lost 6 34-36 19-42 
z·denotes first game was a win. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Monday'• Games Monday'• Gamea 
Late Games Not Included Late Gamea Not Included 
Toronto 9. Chicago 2 Atlanta e. New Yorks. 14 innings, 1st game 
Minnesota 5, Detroit 3, 10 innings Atlanta at New York, 2nd game, (n) 
Milwaukee 4, New York 1 Montreal 8, Cincinnati 4 
Texas at Kansas Cny, (n) Chicago 2. Los Angeles o 
Boston at Seattle, (n) Philadelphia at Houston, (n) 
Baltimore at Oakland, (n) St. Louis 6, San Diego 2 
Cleveland at California. (n) Only games scheduled 
Tuesday'a Gamea Tuesday'a Gamea Chicago (McCaskill 9-tO) at Toronto (Morris 17· Los Angeles (Crews 0·1) at Chicago (Harkey 4. 5), 7:35p.m. 0), 2:20p.m. Minnesota (Trombley 0·0) at Detron (Doheny 4· Montreal (Martinez 14·10) at Cincinnati (Pugh O· 3), 7:35p.m. · 0), 7:35p.m. New York (Perez 11·1 3) at Milwaukee (Navarro San Francisco (Burkett 11·7) at Pittsburgh 14·9), 8:05p.m. (Jackson 6-11), 7:35p.m. Texas (Ryan 5·8) at Kansas City (Pichardo 8·5), Atlanta (Nied 0·0) at New Vorl< (Whitehurst 2·7), 8:35p.m. 7:40p.m. Bahimore (Milacki 5-7) at Oakland (Siusarski 5· San Diego (Benes 10·11) at St. Louis (Osborne 4), 10:05 p.m. 9·7), 8:05p.m. Boston (Young 0-3) at Seattle (Fisher 2·1), 10:35 Philadelphia (Brantley 2-5) at Houston (Williams p.m 6-4), 8:35p.m. 
Cleveland (Cook 5·6) at California (Fortugno 1· Wedneaday'a Games 
1), 10:35 p.m. Atlanta at New York, 1 :40 p.m. 
Wedneaday'a Games Los Angeles at Chicago, 2:20p.m. 
Bah;roore at Oakland, 3:15p.m. Montreal at Cincinnati, 7:35p.m. 
Chicago at Toronto, 7:35p.m San Francisco at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. 
M1nnesota at Detroit, 7:35p.m. San Diego at St. Louis. 8:05p.m. 
New York at Milwaukee, 8:05p.m. Philadelphia al Houston, 8:35p.m. 
n--o-iiii'_s_iiiiiiiiiliji;;.Jiiiiiiiliiii·iiiiz;;;;;;;;iiii;;;A;;;;;'~iiiiiN;;;GT;;;;iOiiiiNiiiiRE;;D;;;;;SKiiiiiN;;i;S-iiiiW;;;iaiiiiiiveiiiiidiiiiAiviiiiii~-W~~'" '"~F~ibri~~if~:rtii~n 
National Football League ATLANTA FALCONs-Placed John Rade, linebacker. and Tracey Eaton, safety, on injured reserve. Waived Tim Paulk, Oscar Giles, and Darryl Hardy, linebackers; Reggie Dwight, tight end; and Fred Foggie, cornerback. . . . . BUFFALO BILLS-Agreed to terms with Cornelius Bennett, linebacker, on a multl)'ear contract Waived Brian Baldinger .. M1ke Brennan. and Joe Staysniak, offensive lineman; Darrick Brownlow and Eric Fairs, linebackers; Dwight Drane, Eric Coleman and Manny Hendrix, defensiVe backs; Chris Walsh and CuMis Mayfield, wide receivers; Gary Baldinger, defensive lineman; Howard Griffnh, running back; and Vince Marrow and Ed Thomas, tight ends. Placed James Patton, nose tackle, on injured reserve. . CHICAGO BEARS-Waived Glen Kozlowski and Eric Wright, wide receivers; Maurice Douglass, defensive back; Mike Stonebreaker and J1m Schwantz. linebackers; Paul Justin, quarterback; Todd Harrison, tight end; Eric Kumerow, defensive end; and James Rouse, fullback. . CINCINNATI BENGALS-Waived Erik Wilhelm, quarterback; Eric Kanus, tight end; Craig Taylor, running back; Elston Ridgle and Andrew Stewan, defens1ve ends; John Earle and Chad Germer, guards; Eric Shaw, linebacker; Omar Soto, running back; Marcus Shipp, safety; Richard Isaiah, wide receiver; and Lance Oberding, tackle. . . . DALLAS COWBOYS-Waived Dale Hellestrae, center; Gerald Alphin, Tony Lomack, and Derrick Shepard, wide receiVers; Michael Beasley and Chuck Weatherspoon, running backs; Reggie Cooper and Maurice Crum, linebackers; Chad Fonune and Fullen Wacasey, tight ends; Jason Garren and Craig Kupp, quarterbacks; Kevin Harris, defensive end; and Tom Myslinski, guard. . . . DETROIT LIONS-Waived Leonard Burton and Jack Linn, offensive linemen; Earnest Fields, Andre J-. and John Derby, linebackers; Enc Lynch, runmng back; Derek Tennell, tight end; Jerry Woods, defensive end; Ed Tillison, running back; Crawford Ker, Mike Hinnant and Dennis McKnight. guards; and Bernard Wilson, nose tackle. . . . . DENVER BRONCOS-Placed Ronnie Haliburton, linebacker, on Injured reserve. Waived Stanley Morgan, Barry Johnson and Cednc T1llman. w1de receivers; Sean Farrell, offensive guard; Tim Lucas, John Kacherskl and John Sullins, linebackers; Jeff Alexander, fullback; Nick Subls and Jim Johnson, offensive linemen; Rob Awatt, tight end; and Don Gibson, Mark Flythe and Ron Geater, defensive linemen. . . GREEN BAY PACKERS-Waived Mile Tomczak, quarterback; scan Stephen, linebacker; Greg Bell and Steve Avery, running backs; Sebastian Bame, . defensive end; Jerry Evans and Darryl ingram, tight ends; Mike McDonald, linebacker; Frank Kmet, defensive lineman; David Viaene, offensive tackle; and LoUis Cheek, offensive lineman. Placed Joe Garten, offensive lineman, on injured reserve. . HOUSTON OILERS-Waived Victor Jones, running backs; Mario Bailey, Manny Hazard, Wade Hopkins and Ebert Turner, w1de relvers; George Bethune and Elijah Austin, defensive ends; Bernard Dalney, offensive tackle; Terry Gray and Erik Norgard, guards; Charles Pharms and Carlton Lance, safeties; and B1ily Bell and Emanuel Martin, cornerbacks. iNDIANAPOLIS COLTS-Waived Alben Bentley, Brian Lattimore and Maury Toy, running backs; Quintus McDonald, Ray Savage and Man Vanderbeek, linebackers; Alan Grant, defensive back; Sammy Martin, Mike Bellamy, Reggie Thornton and Eddie Britton, wide receivers; Pat Torrberhn, Mark Tucker and James Brown, offensive linemen; Michael Brandon, defensive end; Tim Bruton, tight end, and Mlcheel Heldt. center. KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-Waived Robb Thomas, wide receiver; John Hagy, defensive back; Phil Bryant, running back; Jim Jennings; guard; Ron Goetz and Stephan Weatherspoon, linebackers; Craig Hudson, tight end; and Pellom McDaniels, defensive end. Placed William Kirksey, linebacker, on Injured reserve. LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Waived Vince Evans and Anthony Dilweg, quarterbacks; Tom Benson, linebacker; Ron Brown, Daryl Hobbs and Tyrone Montgomery, wide receivers; Napoleon McCallum and Kevin Smith, fullbacks; Ro~ Graves, J~l Patten, Josh Ta?toai and Rich Stephens, offensive linemen; Doug Reed and A.J. Jimerson, defensive linemen; CurtiS Cotton and Robert McWr~ght, defensive backs; and Feme Collons, defensive end. LOS ANGELES RAMS-Waived Marcus Dupree, Derek Lovilia and Erma Thompson, runmng backs; Glenell Sanders. Bnan Townsend and Thomas Horrco. linebackers; Jim Skow and Karl Wilson, defensive ends; Ricky Jones, safety; Joe Domingos, punter; Vance Hammond, defensive tackle; MIAMI DOLPHINS-Waived Fred Banks, wide receiver; Chris Dressel, Orson Mobley and Dave Moore, tight ends; Kameno Bell and Bernie Parmalee, running backs; Kevin Robbins and Blaine Ross, offensive linemen; E.J. Junior, linebacker; Mike laquanlello, safety; Doug Pederson. quanerback; Michael McGruder, cornerback; and Shawn Lee, defensive lineman. Placed Pat Swoops, defensive end, on Injured reserve. MINNESOTA VIKINGS-Waived Darrin Nelson and Chuck Evans, running backs; Mark Dusbabek. David Bavaro and Ed McDaniel, linebackers; Brent Novoselsky and Mike Jones, tight ends; Darren Hughes, Mike Mayes and Solomon Wilcots, defensive backs; Carl Parker, Terry Obee and Joe Randolph, wide receivers; and scan Adams, guard. Placed Todd Kalis, guard, on injured reserve. NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Waived Marvin Allen, running back; Wayne Hawkins and Kelvin Means, wide receivers; David Dixon, nose tackle; Steve Gordon, center; scan Bowles, offensive lineman; Ben Jefferson, tackle; Alex Johnson, wide receiver; Rob McGovern, Reggie Clark and Troy Wilkes, linebackers; Eric Bergeson, safety; Tim Edwards, defensive end; and AI Golden, tight end. NEW ORLEANS SAINTS-Waived Buford Jordan, fullback; Cary Blanchard, kicker; Karl Dunbar, defensive lineman; Donald Jones, linebacker; Marcus Dowdell, wide receiver; Greg Scales, tight end; and Paul Jetton, Mike Keirn and Mike Gisler, offensive linemen. NEW YORK GIANTS-Waived Ortis Anderson and Anthony Lynn, running backs; Jeff Carlson, quanerback; Gary Reasons and Bobby Abrams. linebackers; Michael Wright, Roger Brown and Brian Allred, defensive backs; Stacey Dillard, Murray Garren and Dennis Tripp, defensive linemen; Eric Bruun, punter; Ted Popson, tight end; Nick Flneanganofo and Jeff Novak, offensive tackles; and Charles Swann, wide receiver. NEW YORK JETS-Waived Johnny Hector and Leroy Kinard, running backs; Mike Haight, offensive lineman; Troy Taylor, quarterback; Bill Pickel and Wayne Wlcka, defensive linemen; Troy Johnson, Rickey Andrews and Keo Coleman, linebackers; Pat Beach, tight end; R.J. Kors, defensive back; and Reggie Moore, wide receiver. PHILADELPHIA EAGLES-Waived Jeff Kemp, quarterback; Floyd Dixon and Kenny Jackson, wide receivers; Thomas Sanders, running back; and Ephesians Bartley, linebacker. PITISBURGH STEELERS-Waived Rick Strom, quarterback; Scottie Graham, running back; Mark Didio and Darrick Owens, wide receivers; Dave Harbour, tight end; Dean Callguire and Tom Ricketts, offensive linemen; Garry Howe and Tom Gibson, defensive linemen; Man Jaworski, linebacker; and Kevin Smith, Todd Krumm, Sammy Lilly and Mickey Washington, defensive backs. SAN DIEGO CHARGERS-Waived Johnnie Barnes, Yancey Thigpen, Robert Claiborne and Walter Stanley, wide receivers; Tony Lenselgne, halfback; Peter Tuipulotu, running back; Terry Beauford, James Parrish and Jeff Waiker, offensive linemen; Greg Clark, linebacker; Cedric Mack, cornerback; and Arthur Paul and Tony Savage, defensive tackles. Placed Kevin Little, defensive end, on Injured reserve. 
SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS-Waived Harry Sydney, running back; Todd Bowles, safety; Mark Seay and Odessa Turner, wide receivers; Joe Prokop, punter; Man LaBounty, defensive end; Martin Harrison, Reggie McKenzie and Ilia Jarostchuk, linebackers; Greg Joelson, defensive lineman; Tom Neville and Ricky Slglar, offensive linemen; and Darryl Pollard, cornerback. 
SEATTLE SEAHAWKS-Waived Nesby Glasgow, safety; Brian Blades, guard; Eric Hayes and Mike Frier. defensive linemen; Rick Newbill and Chico Fraley, linebackers; Brad Leggett, center; Mike Oliphant and Muhammed Shamsid-Deen, running backs; Anthony Hamlet and John MacNeill, defensive ends; Derwin Brewer, Brian Treggs and Rod Moore. wide receivers; Malcolm Frank, cornerback; and Rafael Robinson and Joe Merom, defensive backs. 
TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS-Waived Elijah Alexander, linebacker; Chris Barber, Joe King and Mark Berry, defensive backs; Willie Culpepper, Willie Drewrey, Jeff Parker and Leslie Shepherd. wide receivers; Mark Duckens and Rhett Hall, defensive linemen; Randy Grimes, center; and Stanford Jennings and 
Mazio Royster, running backs. 


IU 
ALUMNI 
SENIOR 
!CLUB 

Open Friday for Lunch 
12--2 Start your weekend off right! The place to be for the "Class of '93" open all Friday non..football weekends 
must be 21 

Seniors interested in Pursuing Graduate Study Abroad are invited to an informational meeting with advisor, John Welle (7204) on Thursday, September 3rd at 
7:15 p.m.in the Center for Social Concerns 

JOIN OUR 
TEA~1 

CATERING E~1PLOYMENT NEEDS YOU!! 
EARN$$$$ FLEXIBLE HOURS ~tEET NE\\1 FRIENDS HAVE FUN \\IORI<ING 

SiQn up in t.he basement. of SOH 

2-5 PM ~lon-Fri 


..... 
-
-
(iiii;-TiiiiexiiiiasiiiiatiiiiK..a:;;;;is,~iiiiCiiiiityiiii,8iiii:3iiii5~piiii~iiii~iiiiJ_<_riiii.iiii.iiiuiiii-c..iiii._iiii. $2.00 off any size pizza w/Student l.D. Special Available Sun .. Thur 4 .. 10 p.m. ia~~ offer expires 9~30-92 ~ DINE IN & CARRY OUT ONLY ~ vq_,'<., '· 02610 Prairie Ave. 288 ..3320 ~"& ~q_, ~ 'VCi ~  


r---­
~ ... 
1.. 
I 
I 
I 
I I NFL coaches make final roster cuts to 45 
page 12 The Observer Tuesday, September 1, 1992 
I I I I r I I I 
I 
i 
I 
I ! 
--
-
Bengals Rookie Klingler could get starting nod 
CINCINNATI (AP) -The Cincinnati Bengals say they aren't going to pressure their quarterback of the future to make a big impact in the pre­sent. 
The Bengals ended four months of negotiations by sign­ing first-round pick David Klingler on Sunday night. General manager Mike Brown said the record-setting quar­terback from the University of Houston will be given plenty of time to show what he can do. 
"We took him for the long haul, not the short term," Brown said. "This year will be a learning experience for him. David will get a chance to be our starting quarterback at some point and we believe he can do it." 
Asked if Klingler might chal­lenge Don Hallas this year for the backup job, Brown said: "He's not at number two now, and we'll leave it to him to prove where he should be as things go along." 
Klingler joins starter Boomer Esiason, Hallas and four-year veteran Erik Wilhelm at quar­terback. The Bengals are not likely to carry four quarter­backs on the roster. They do not have to do anything about Klingler for two weeks because he is on exempt roster status. But it was considered likely that Klingler's arrival would lead to Wilhelm's departure in today's final roster cuts. 
Neither Brown, Klingler nor his agent, Leigh Steinberg, would give details of Klingler's contract. But it was reported to be worth about $7 million over four years. 
The only higher-paid Bengal would be Esiason, who earns an estimated $3 million per year. 
Klingler was the sixth overall pick in April's NFL draft. His NCAA records including most touchdown passes in one game 
(11) and in one season (54). 
"I didn't expect it would take this long," Klingler said of ne­gotiations with the Bengals. "Obviously, I'm behind. But I've been throwing in Houston to anybody who would catch it, even my wife in the front yard a couple times. And at least I had four weeks of learning the offense" in minicamps and voluntary camps. 
Volley 
continued from page 16 
match against them in a spring tournament and expect them to be a good team." 
Ball State returns three starters, including 5-foot-1 0 setter Lorie Vandenberg, who logged a school-record 1,224 assists last year. Hitters Lisa Hadorn and April Hoeltke are also back, while sophomore transfer Carin Zielinski, a Mishawaka native, will make a big impact.if fully recovered from a shoulder injury. 
Tonight's match is the first of the season for both teams. Brown doesn't believe that will be a problem for Notre Dame. 
"There are always first-game jitte-rs, but we can overcome that," said Brown. "The team we start is experienced. I ex­pect them to be a little nervous for the first few points, but that will go away." 

Will Bears close door on the Fridge? 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. (API -Harrison; defensive end Eric There were no surprises today Kumerow and fullback James when the Chicago Bears cut Rouse. nine players to get down to the Defensive tackle William "The 47-man roster for the upcoming Fridge" Perry, who remains NFL season. unsigned, made an appearance 
Wide receiver Glen Kozlowski at camp. Perry appeared to be and defensive back Maurice close to the 3 20 pounds that Douglass were among those cut Ditka demanded before he but both were expected to be would allow Perry to rejoin the recalled Tuesday when several team. players are expected to go on The Bears have insisted that injured reserve. Perry's contract be structured 
Others cut were linebackers with weight clauses. Mike Stonebreaker (formerly of Notre Dame) and Jim Asked if he was going to play Schwantz; quarterback Paul with the Bears, Perry said "''m Justin; wide receiver Eric going home to play with my Wright; tight end Todd son." 
MACRI'S PIZZA & ITALIAN RESTAURANT Pizza & Pasta-Sandwiches-Appetizers 25 Pizza ToRpings & 1 lb. burgers Free Dehvery to Campus SEPTEMBER SPECIALS:(cxpires 9/30/92) 
PICKUP ONLY $1 off any 12" or 14" Pizza $2 off 16" or 18" Pizza Only wirh rhis ad 
52303 Emmons Rd.

AP File Photo 
Georgetown Shopping Center (next w Club Shenanigan's) 

The Cincinatti Bengals haven't had much to celebrate about lately, but 
rookie David Klingler hopes to help things change. 


l) 

Notre Damets Stereo Alternative 
WANTS"YOU-! 
Afraid of working for aclassical/fine arts radio station? DON'T BE! WSND-FM is looking for new student announcers with great personalities for both daytime and evening shifts. Even if you know nothing about music, try out: we'll even program your shows if we have to! We also have shifts available in: 
•Ja~~ • New Age 
• Blues • Progressive/Modern Rock 
Stop by our table tonight at Student Activities Night or call 239-7342 for more info. 

The Observer page 13 
Seles rolls in first round of Open 

NEW YORK (AP) -Monica Seles looked like, well, Monica Seles today as she began the defense of U.S. Open title by crushing Audra Keller 6-1, 6-0. 
Putting to rest at least mo­mentarily the rumors that she might be ripe for an upset, Seles needed only 45 minutes to dispatch her bright red-clad opponent on the opening day of the year's final Grand Slam tournament. 
In other early first-round matches on the hardcourts at the National Tennis Center, 11th-seeded Michael Stich of Germany, the 1991 Wimbledon champion, defeated Olivier Delaitre of France 6-4, 6-3, 6-4 and No. 7 Mary Joe Fernandez stumbled before stopping fellow American Donna Faber 3-6, 6­0, 6-4. 

Rhodes/Marshall ScholarshipApplicants 
Seniors applying for a Rhodes or Marshall Scholarship: Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have an informational meeting on September 2, 1992 at 7:00p.m. in room 101 of the Law school 
33 for Keller, a right-hander from Memphis, Tenn., ranked 78th in the world. 
Tonight, the defending men's champion, Jim Courier, was to make his 1992 debut at Flushing Meadow, playing Alex O'Brien, the NCAA champion from Stanford. 
Both Seles and Courier want to believe that Wimbledon was just an unscheduled bump in their rush to being named players of the year. After all, both won the singles on the rubberized hardcourts of the Australian Open in January, then grabbed the second of the four Grand Slam crowns by winning on the slow, red clay at the French Open. That was be­fore the slippery grass courts of Wimbledon ended their chances at being the first Grand Slam winner since Steffi Graf performed the all-winning feat in 1988. 
Seles. ranked No. 1 in the world and seeded No. 1, is in the unique position of having to defend her record. She has, after all, lost her last three trips to the final -to Graf at 5 in the world. 
Chopped liver, they're not. Still, the questions come. 
"It's a bit surprising to me that Monica's lost three finals, but I really don't think that will affect her in the Open," Graf said. "I would say she has a big chance there." 
The third battle on Stadium Court will be a rematch of Marc Rosset of Switzerland against fifth-seeded Goran Ivanisevic of Croatia. Rosset upset the heav­ily favored Ivanisevic at the Barcelona Olympics, and went on to capture the gold medal. 
Ivanisevic, runnerup at Wimbledon·, had to settle for a bronze medal and hints he might not last too long at the 
U.S. Open. 
"When you've played too much tennis, you come to the point where you hate to see the court, hate to see the other guy across the net," Ivanisevic said. "I have to get over that or I'm going nowhere." 
Then comes the Courier­
O'Brien match. 
While Courier is expected to advance easily and face the winner of the Pablo Albano­Andrei Chesnokov match, he 


There's a lot more than a great a bonus book that's good for free calculator waiting for you when software, a free PC link cable you purchase an HP 48SX oran and hundreds ofdollars back HP 488 between June 1, 1992, on applications-like electrical and October 31,1992. You'll get and mechanical engineering­

memory cards, training tools, 
games, and HP's infrared printer. It's a really big offer. Worth more than $500. And it's going to make your HP 48 calculator even more valuable to you. The free serial cable lets you exchange information with your PC. And the free software disk lets you enter and plot equations easily; do 3D plotting, and analyze polynomials. 
©1992 Hewlett-Packard Company PGI2203B 

Beyond all the bonuses, you'll have the right calculator for your most challenging classes. HP 48 calculators have over 2100 built-in functions and offer a unique combination of graphics and calculus. 
Head over to the campus book­store now. After all, you don't see this kind ofdeal every day. HP calculators. The best for your success. 
Ff/0'1 HEWLETT 
a!alll PACKARD 
knows that another NCAA champion from Stanford, John McEnroe, made an impact on the U.S. Open just after winning his NCAA title in 1978, reaching the semifinals in the inaugural year at Flushing Meadow. 
If the seedings hold, Courier will meet McEnroe, a four-time 
U.S. Open champion. in the fourth round. 
"This is the one where you have to really bear down men­tally," Courier said of the U.S. Open, where the crowd, noise and heat can easily distract a player's concentr.ation. "You have to be fit to begin with, and you always know there's going to be at least one match over the course of two weeks where you aren't going to be at your best but you've still got to figure out how to win it. And for a player who's never done that, it can be overwhelming." 
Honoring a friend or loved one has never been easier. 
1-800-242-8721 
The American Heart Association Memorial Program. An Investment in Life. 
American Heart Association 

Th1s space prov1ded as a public serv1ce 1992 American Heart Association 
Indiana Auto Insurance Our good rates may save yoo money. Call fr>r a quote 9-5, 289-1993. Office near camr:us. 
Needed: 

-
]azz Pianist 
ND Jazz Band Call: Fr. George 
239--7136 
ASAP 


page 14 The.Observer 

Tuesday, September 1, 1992 
SPORTS BRIEFS Erickson's not overlooking Buckeyes 
Notre Dame Rugby Club is starting practke.. All l'et\l.rning players and anyone .interested in playing should come to Stepan Field at 4:15 p.m. No experience necessary. Please bring cleats, mouthpiece and proof of insurance. Questions? Call 287-3587. 
Football Officials are needed for RecSports leagues. Come to meeting on September 9 in the JACC Football Auditorium at 5 
p:m. for Grad football and at 5:30 p.m. for women's inte.rhall. Officials earn $9 a game. 
Baseball umpires needed for fall baseball leagues. Anyone interested should report to an umpire's meeting on September 3 at 5 p.m. in the JACC Auditorium. Umpires earn $10 a game. 
The SMC tennis team will hold a meeting for anyone interested in trying out for the team on September 2 at 4:30 p.m. in Angela Athletic Center. 
Tickets for the Notre Dame~Northwestern game re available through Ticketmaster {312) 559-1212 and the Northwestern Ticket Office 1-800-WILDCAT. 
Soccer Officials are needed for RecSports soccer leagues. Come to a meeting on September 10 at 5:30 p.m. in the JACC Auditorium. Officials earn $10 a game, 

--:.-
RecSports is accepting entries for interhall cross country and men's soccer, campus volleyball and grad/faculty/staff soccer. Entries are due in the RecSports Office in the JACC by September 9. 
The campus 2-person golf scramble will take place on September 27. '}'he. tournament is opento all students. faculty and staff. Sign up as an individual or tn pairs, Entries arid entry fees due by September 23. 
All Saint Mary•s students interested in playing varsity basketball should attend a meeting on September 3 at 4 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Center. 
SportsTalk returns to WVFI 640 AM on Tuesday at .8 p.m. Join hosts Noah Cooper and Mark Woodmansee as they diScuss the upcoming season with Clint Johnson and Lake Dawson. 
The Notre Dame hockey coaches will silk screen the ND Hockey logo on clean T-shirts, pillow cases and whatever else students bring to the hockey table at Student Activities Night. 
The 8th AnnuaJ run, jane, run: Women in Sports Fundraiser will sponsor a women's double elimination 3..on-3 basketball tournament on September 13 at the Stepan Outdoor Courts. Registration and the $20 fee is due before September 4. Contact Sandy Botham at 239-5420 for registration forms. Funds raised by the event will benefit the YWCA ofSt. Joseph County. 
Anyone.interestec:t. in indoor or. Q1Jt~oor track should come .t? an informatipri meeting on Sep~Jjl~r 9 at 4 p;m, Auditorium. Questions? Call YVette McNeillat 283-4412 

Off-Campus soccer players are trying to organize ateam. Anyone interested in playing otT-campus interhall soccer should call Pual at 277-5329. 
Pro Volleyball Players Kiraly, Timmons to visit Mishawaka 
Special to the Observer 
Karch Kiraly and Steve Timmons, two of the greatest volleyball players in the worlJ, will be at Outpost Sports, which is located at 3602 North Grape Road in Mishawaka, on Wednesday at 5:30 p.m. ac­cording to owner J.V. Peacock 
Kiraly and Timmons anchored the USA to gold medals in the 1984 and 1988 Olympics. Timmons was also on the 1992 bronze medal winning team, and both are accomplished two­man beach volleyball players. 
The former roommates are the sport's first million dollar players, and last teamed up to bring an Italian League cham­pionship to Il Messaggero for the first time in 39 years in May, 1991. 
Kiraly's most recent accom­plishments have come on the beach, where he and partner Randy Stoklos equalled a record of 13 straight wins. 

·-
Timmons is best known for revolutionizing the indoor game. Playing opposite the setter, his right back attacks from behind the 10 foot line gave the Americans a decided 
-
edge in international competi­tion for 12 years. 
After a free clinic and auto­graph session, Timmons will team with Penn High School coach Mark Watts in a match against Kiraly and Mishawaka's Mike Fifer. 

VERO BEACH, Fla. (AP)-The top-ranked Hurricanes For University of Miami coach have struggled to concentrate Dennis Erickson, Hurricane on preparations for Iowa. Andrew has diminished the Following their first workout at importance of football, particu-Dodgertown last Thursday, larly Saturday night's season Erickson angrily complained opener at Iowa. that the players were dis­
" I think the whole thing is tracted. less significant," Erickson said On Monday, his tone was dif-Monday. "We all in our lives get ferent. carried away with things that "Obviously their complete Co­supposedly are important to us, cus isn't on football, and .it but when you face something shouldn't be," he said. "We like this ... it's a game. It's not a have practiced good at times, life-and-death situation. and not so good at times. We've 
"But we have a lot of pride, all put football in perspective and we're going up there to win with life in the last week or so." the game." Like other members of the 
Irish 
continued from page 1 

Reggie Brooks and Lee Becton have both shown the talent needed at the collegiate level, but neither have much experience. And if something should happen to either one, the depth drops off consider­ably. Thus, Clark gives the coaches a tough choice to make, but one that many pro­grams wish they had to make. 
In the two weeks since the Los Angeles Times broke the story of the NCAA investigation of Demetrius DuBose, the NCAA has yet to hand down a judgement. As the first game approaches, the Irish defense is facing the very real possibility that their captain may not be on the field when the Irish face Northwestern on Saturday. 
To prepare for that possibil­ity, Pete Bereich has been practicing with the first team defense, moving over from backing up Anthony Peterson. He played there during last Friday's final scrimmage and has continued in that role in practice. Like DuBose, Bereich is responsible for calling the defensive alignment in the huddle. 
But replacing 127 tackles won't be easy, if in fact the Irish are forced to play without DuBose. Almost as important is the leadership DuBose pro­vided on the field. In DuBose's absence, someone will have to pick up the slack in that de­partment. 
Notre Dame's freshman class was ranked a nearly unani­mous number-one by scouting reports, and several members coaching staff, Erickson has been juggling his time between football and personal matters -arranging accommodations for his family a.nd repairs on his house. 

"It's kind of trashed," he said, "but we're in a lot better shape than probably a couple of hundred thousand other peo­ple. At least we can rebuild the house." 
Erickson, his wife and their two sons waited out the worst of the storm in a closet at the home of an assistant coach. 
of that group are poised to make a contribution to this year's team. 
Brian Magee, a defensive back from Largo, Fla., has taken turns with the first unit defense, coming in on obvious passing situations as a nickel back, sharing that responsibil­ity with junior LeShane Saddler. 
After junior tight end Oscar McBride broke his jaw in Friday's scrimmage, which re­quired him to have the jaw wired shut, Pete Chryplewicz, a first-year player from Sterling Heights, Mich., has moved into the second-string role at tight end. 
Other freshmen who have played well in practice and will likely contribute to the Irish defense include safety Bobby Taylor and defensive lineman Paul Grasmanis. 

Ill 
ALUMNI 
SENIOR 

~!:CLUB 
Thursday is 

Cup Night! 
You may have missed last Thursday ... Don't miss this one! 
The place to be for the Class of '93 
must be 21 



Today 

Tuesday, September 1, 1992 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

CALVIN AND HOBBES  BILL WATTERSON  
liE~ OAO, KI'-IOW Wf\t>.T I FIGURED OIJT? n\t t<\£ANING Ot= WORD'S I'Sl'-11  To TI-IAT £.1\\D, I'LL ISE \1{\1£\nlt-lG NE\'ol OEnl'm\O\Il'S R)R cc~~ON WORDS. SO WELL I3E IJNP,\3L£. 10 C0\1\MVt-l\Cf...\E.  MARIJ'f. FA\3. ~AR 0\JT.  
t>.. I="\XED 111\NG! At-l'( WORD O.N to\U.N AN'{Tl\\fo.lG! ,.......,...,.....L,  




-·­
-
page 16 
Mike Scrudato 
Random Thoughts 
Injuries force freshmen into spotlight early 
Last season Michigan's Fab Five thrilled college basketball fans with its NCAA Tournament run. which ended with a 71-51 loss to Duke in the finals. They proved that it was possible for a Division I team to be successful on the national level without on-the-court senior leadership. 
For the next few weeks,· the Notre Dame women's soccer team will try to do the same. Senior captains Michelle Lodyga, Denise Chabot and Margaret Jarc are all out with injuries, leaving the team in the hands of predominantly underclassmen. 
Irish coach Chris Petrucelli has discovered one positive thing about the loss of his captains. 
"The injuries happened early enough where we were able to develop as a team without them (the seniors)." 
Though the Irish have developed as a team, it still is one lacking in experience. This could be a detriment to Notre Dame, which started five freshmen in Sunday's scrimmage against Saint Mary's, in the season's first two weeks. In this period the Irish will play its first five games away from Alumni Field. 
"That will hurt," Petrucelli commented. "We have some of our tougher games early, and we will go into some of those games as an underdog."
When Notre Dame does play a home game, it will not get any easier as they face Midwestern Collegiate Conference foe Dayton and national power Duke. The injury epidemic could do one of 
two things for the Irish. The freshmen could falter under the pressure of being thrust into the starting lineup and the 

Sports 
Tuesday September 1, 1992 
Clark, DuBose now in limbo for Irish 
The Observer/Margueritte Schropp 
Sinking Captain? 

Senior defensive captain Demetrius Dubose's case is still under NCAA scrutiny. 
v II b II

0 ey a set to open season against BSU 
By DAN PIER 
team would then have to dig itself out of Sports Writer 
a hole for the remainder of the season. 
This is something the Fab Five never had to do. The Wolverines fared well early, winning nine of their first ten, with the only loss coming to top-ranked Duke in overtime. In this period. the freshmen were gradually eased into the starting lineup. 
However, Notre Dame is not necessarily facing eminent disaster. The injuries could also have a positive effect on the team. Should the Irish get through the early season with any kind of success, they could be amongst the nation's elite by tournament time. 
"It's real important that we get on some sort of roll early on," Petrucelli explained. "(If we do so), it will help us later on." 
In addition to the young talent that brought the Michigan basketball team so much success, Notre Dame will also have senior leadership and big-game experience, something the Wolverines did not have in the Final Four. 
Whereas Michigan's five seniors combined to average a mere 5.4 points per game, the Irish will have three experienced senior captains to turn to in crunch time. This, along with the freshmen who will mature throughout the year, could secure Notre Dame's place as a national power in women's soccer for years to come. 
After a preseason of fierce competition for starting spots, the Notre Dame women's volleyball team is ready to open intercollegiate competition. Head Coach Debbie Brown believes the practices have prepared her team well for tonight's 7:30 match against Ball State at the Joyce ACC. 
"We had a good preseason," said Brown. "It was so competitive that it was very difficult to select a starting lineup. I think we're ready for the opener." 
The six players Brown selected all saw a lot of action last year. Janelle Karlan will start at setter; captain Alicia Turner and Christy Peters will be the outside hitters; Jessica Fiebelkorn and Cynthia May will be the middle blockers; and Marilyn Cragin will round out the starting lineup. As the preseason competition proved, however, the Irish are deep. 
"Molly Stark and Nicole Coates will see a Jot of court time tonight and throughout the season," said Brown. "They could be starting before the season is over." 
Brown is also impressed with first-year players Brett Hensel and Shannon Tuttle. 
"Brett will play tonight, in the back row at least, and possibly more than that," commented the coach. "Chanin set well in the preseason. We won't hesi­

;.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-tate to use her if JaneIIe struggl e s." 
INSIDE SPORTS 
•Miami-Iowa preview 
see page 14 

IISeles begins US Open 
see page 13 

•NFL makes roster cuts 
seepag~ 12 


The Irish will face a formidable opponent as they begin their quest to improve upon last year's 26-10 record. Ball State compiled a 19-9 record in 1991 and tied for second in the Mid­American Conference, earning head coach Randy Litchfield MAC Coach of the Year honors. 
"I can only hope that what we did last year gives the whole team a huge amount of self-confidence," Litchfield said. "I thoroughly expect this team to 
By RICH KURZ 
Associate Sports Editor 

It appears that Willie Glark's quest for a permanent position isn't over just yet. Not long after announcing that Clark, who was moved to tailback after last season, was going to move back to the secondary, he was back practicing on ofl'ense again. 
Clark has begun all three of his seasons as a tailback, but in the last two he has been pressed into emergency duty as a defensive back and has ended up starting. The last move to offense was expected to be his last. Recently, how­ever, Clark decided he wanted to go back to hitting people instead of being hit. But in the past few days, Clark was back where he began-tailback. 
Ironically, part of the difficulty in keeping him at one spot stems from his tremendous talent. His speed and moves with the ball are unquestionable, and after bulking up to over 180 lbs., he seems more durable. But at the same time, his speed and his desire for the physical part of the game makes him a nightmare for receivers. 
Given Holtz's preference for a backfield by committee, Clark poses a dilemma for the coaching staff. Keeping him on offense means he won't be on the field as much as he would as a full-time defensive back, but moving him to defense means the tailback spot would be left up to two unproven contributors. 
Further complicating matters is the stability of the defensive backfield, which looks pretty much set. Jeff Burris and John Covington man the safeties with Tom Carter and Greg Lane at the corners. It's difficult to see any of those players losing their roles to Clark. especially with LeShane Saddler and freshman Brian Magee pushing those four. 
see IRISH/page 14 
be th.~ best ball-handling team I've had here. 
Brown concurred with Litchfield's assessment of his team. 
"As a team, they have excellent defensive and ball-handling skills," she said of the Cardinals. "We had a good 
see VOLLEY/page 12 






