The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 60 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1992 
Tornadoes rampage across South 
A wall of thunderstorms pushing across the South spun tornadoes from Texas to Ohio, killing at least 19 people. 
• Typhoon in Guam I page 6 
smashing houses and blowing trucks off highways. 
Several states in the path of the storm were under tornado watches Sunday night. 
Tornadoes killed 15 people and injured at least 150 in Mis­sissippi late Saturday and one person was killed early Sunday in Tennessee. At least two people were killed and scores of others were injured as tor­nadoes moved across Georgia on Sunday. At least one person was killed and at least nine in­jured in northern Kentucky Sunday afternoon. 
A tornado touched down in the western Ohio village of Ar­canum Sunday night. There was no immediate word of se­rious injury. 
Thunderstorms and torna­does wrecked homes and busi­nesses in Alabama, Indiana and Georgia, where a steeple was ripped from a church during Sunday's service. Thou­sands in Indianapolis were without power. 
Texas and Louisiana were hit by tornadoes Saturday. with heavy damages and numerous injuries. but no deaths. 
Among the hardest hit areas was in and around Brandon, Miss.. where 10 people died. 
"It's unbelievable. We're lucky we didn't lose more lives than we did," said W. Whittington, mayor of Brandon. 
A tornado smashed through a mobile home park and then skipped across Braodnon to an upscale neighborhood, where it killed a father and son, along with two of the boy's Cub Scout buddies spending the night there. 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Professors: Clinton plans changes in military, ROTC 

By JOHN CONNORTON 
News Writer 
If President-elect Bill Clinton holds to his campaign promises, the armed forces are likely to experience dramatic cutbacks and a reworking of traditional practices which would include allowing homosexuals to serve in the military. 
Clinton has stated that he wants to trim the defense bud­get by about $78 million over the next four years. Such a cut would mean the loss of over one million military and civilian jobs. 
Although there are no official job retraining programs in any of the armed forces, there is a job placement program avail­able to those who had been employed by the Department of Defense. both military person­nel and civilians, according to Colonel James O'Brien, chair and professor of Military Science. 
The Army has the Army Ca­reer and Alumni Program (ACAP). to assist those who have left the service for any reason, whether by choice or 
The Observer/Scott Schittl 
because they have been cut.
The video man O'Brien emphasized that the army is very committed to
St. Edward's Hall sophomore Miguel Casillas works in the LaFortune 
make any transitions from mili­
Video store which is located in the basement of the LaFortune Student 
tary to civilian life as smooth as
Center. 

• Haiti awaits Clinton/ page 6 
possible. "I can only speak for the army," said O'Brien, "but I'm sure the other services are as well." 
Cuts in the military are likely to effect the availability of ROTC scholarships, said Captain James Pattison. Professor of Naval Science. 
"I would expect us to continue to see a continue of the decline in ROTC enrollment," he said. "In the fall of 1987, there were 329 students in Naval ROTC. In the fall of 1990, there were 343 midshipmen here at the Uni­versity, our high water mark. Now there are only 269." 
The University ROTC program has had to adjust to the tightening military budget, Pattison added. The naval pro-
see CLINTON I page 4 
ND partnership encourages academic careers for blacks 

By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame and Clark Atlanta (Ga.) University have established an official partner­ship designed to increase the number of African Americans who pursue academic careers. 
Studies show that the number of African Americans com­pleting doctoral programs is decreasing just as the number of minorities in college is in­creasing, according to Roland Smith, executive assistant to the president. 
"We feel that it's not enough lege, a liberal arts school, and Atlanta University, a graduate school. 

"With that merger, Clark At­lanta became a private, histori­cally black, doctoral-granting institution. They are an up-and­coming institution," Smith said. 
Similar to Notre Dame's ex­isting relationship with Xavier University of New Orleans, the partnership with Clark Atlanta will involve student and faculty exchanges. 
"Our goal is to try a number of creative things," Smith said. "We're trying to build a com­prehensive working relationship between our two institutions." 
However, he stressed that student and faculty exchanges are not the sole elements of the partnership. 
"We also want to have 'mini' visiting professorships, where faculty would visit for a week or so at the other school, and par­ticipate· in lecture series," he said. "There are also a range of activities that the institutions can work together on, like stu­dent government, newspapers or other projects." 
According to Smith, the rela­
see CAREERS I page 4 
Program discusses how to talk to today's teenagers 
By HONORA BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Parental concerns about teenage drug use and sexual activity and the differences between parents and teenagers in their views on adolescent problems were two of the topics explored in a Notre Dame Alumni Association interactive television program telecast yesterday. 
Four panelists discussed the challenges arising from en­counters between adults and adolescents in the hour-and-a­half program titled, "A Positive Approach to Parenting our Teenagers." 
Other issues examined in­clude how parents can uphold moral values without preaching to their children and the possi­bility of restructuring schools to better meet the needs of teenagers. 
"We feel we have a responsi­bility to bring this continuing education to the viewers," said Chuck Lennon, director of the Alumni Association. 
One hundred and twenty Notre Dame alumni clubs across the country participated in the program through satellite link and telephone. The show was broadcast on 46 cable networks. 
"We are very pleased that we're able to do this," Lennon added. "This is our fifth pro­gram on family values and it has gone over very well."' 
The Alumni Association pre­sents these television shows twice a year through Golden Dome Productions. In the past, such topics as marriage and raising elementary and preschool children have been discussed. 
see PROGRAM I page 4 

Food of all nations 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Masako Uchioke serves her version of Yakitori, a Japanese dish, at a pot luck dinner Saturday night. The dinner was a fund raiser for the International Students Organisation and club members each brought food of their native country. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Make like a 
pilgrim and give thanks 
This week most students will travel to their or their roommate's house to celebrate Thanksgiving. Since any other topic I would write about would probably 

offend someone, it seems Mike Scrudato 
an appropriate time to Sports Editor reflect upon all the reasons we at Notre 
Dame have to be -------­thankful. First and foremost are parietals. This archaic law prevents us from having members of the opposite sex from staying past a certain hour because the administration does not want us to do anything against Catholic teaching, like throwing a movie in at 1 a.m. A group of men and women watching a film past 2 a.m. would require at least five Hail Marys as penance. Isn't it ironic that the University likes to refer to us as men and women, even though it does not trust us enough to let us sleep where we please. The administrators think we might have, shhh, we're not allowed to say this to loud, sex. It's understandable that they think this, as we are all just a bunch of sexually frustrated perverts, but parietals are not going to stop us from having sex if we want to do so. If you're not very brave, it is very possible to have sex and safely get a girl home before 2 a.m. If you have some guts, parietals are not the hardest thing in the world to break, just lock the door and be quiet. However, the concept of parietals is a nice one. The administration wants to keep our minds free of impure thoughts and wants to make sure we don't stay up too late watching movies with some friends. For the ad­ministration's apparent care and concern, I am thankful. A second thing to remember on Thursday is DART. What is there to say about it other than the variety of things various students have already screamed at the insensitive, heartless piece of machinery. There is something inherently wrong with a system that causes supposedly well-educated people to be yelling at a computer over the phone and has juniors taking classes at 8 a.m. Then again, humans can foul up all the messy paper work involved with registering for classes. They actually decide to let an extra student into a class that he/she is thinks is truly interesting. I would much rather be in a boring class with the "proper" amount of people, than be the "extra," non-major person in that history class I was interested in taking. For DART's apparent care and concern. I am thankful. Another thing we should all be thankful for is the Michiana weather, and that most of us will not have to deal with it for a few days. There aren't too many other places this side of the Arctic Circle that you could only see the sun once every three weeks or so. Granted this is not the administration's, nor DART's, nor even Dick Addis' fault, but still, it's simply very grey. But even this has its bright side. Just think o all the harmful ultraviolet rays that the clouds are keeping away from us. They are like having a giant pair of Ambervision sunglasses above us almost every day. For Mother Nature's apparent care and concern, I am thankful. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff:  
Production:  Viewpoint:  
Cynthia Ehrhardt  Honora Buckley  
Melissa Cusack  Accent:  
News:  Jeanne Blasi  
Julie Barrett  Lab Tech:  
Sarah Doran  Jake Peters  
Sports:  Systems:  
George  Jon Halloran  
Dohrmann  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Monday, November 23, 1992
The Observer 

FRONTS: COLD WARM STATIONARY 
[n]
H L ~ 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
INTERNATIONAL 
• ATICAN CITY -Pope John Paul II on Sunday beatified 25 Mexicans who were killed fighting government's persecution of the church after the Mexican revolution. An official Mexican delegation attended the ceremony in St. Peter's Basilica, the first such visit by Mexican authorities since the revolution began eight decades ago. Though overwhelmingly Roman Catholic, Mexico only re­established relations with the Holy See in September. The pope beatified 22 priests and three lay workers who died between 1915 and 1937. The Mexican constitution following the revolution included bans on the church. The measures led to persecution of priests, hundreds of whom died fighting the bans. Beatification is the last step before possible sainthood. 
Seven killed in train accident 
• NEW DELHI, India-A speeding passenger train collided with a stationary train in central India Sunday, killing seven people and injuring 62, according to news reports. Six people were killed instantly, and one died later, United News of India reported. Most of those killed were railroad employees responsible for maintaining tracks. They had climbed into the waiting train some time before the collision, the news reports said. The accident occurred near Ratlam, 340 miles southwest of New Delhi. 
OF INTEREST 
• 
CSC Spring Break Seminar informational meeting for "Into the Fields: Migrant Experiences" will be tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 

• 
Congress Bundestag Youth Exchange Program is accepting applications for American citizens between the ages of 18 and 24 for a year-long program of studying and working in Germany. German language 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING November 20 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 218,667.251 +1.78 to 232.87 S&P COMPOSITE +4.23 to 496.04 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +2.16 to 3209.53

UNCHANGED 564 

GOlD 
+ $0.80 to $335.20 
SILVER + $0.05 to $3.763 
.•:•:•. ,•:: . 
FORECAST 
:·:·. Cloudy today with a chance of light showers. Partly cloudy Tuesday and a little warmer with a high around 50. Thanksgiving day outlood includes a chance of showers. 
TEMPERATURES 
City H L Anchorage 42 16 Atlanta 70 59 Bogota 66 45 Cairo 66 57 Ch~ago 43 39 Cleveland 51 49 Dallas 53 40 Detroit 45 43 Indianapolis 65 49 Jerusalem 59 50 London 59 54 Los Angeles 68 50 Madrid 72 43 Minneapolis 34 31 Moscow 36 32 Nashville 73 56 New York 65 58 Paris 52 48 Philadelphia 65 57 Rome 59 41 Seattle 49 « South Bend 41 Sl Tokyo 54 43 Wuhlngton. D.C. 64 43 

NATIONAL 

• PROVIDENC , .1. -The capsized boat of a yachtsman who disappeared during a solo voyage to France was found Sunday by a freighter that couldn't get close enough to determine whether he was on board, the Coast Guard said. The 60-foot sloop Coyote was spotted by the passing freighter about 480 miles southwest o Ireland, said the brother of the missing Michael Plant. The Coast Guard had stopped searching for Plant last Wednesday, after five days, but it said Saturday the hunt would resume because of his past successes in overcoming hardships at sea. Plant, 42, of Jamestown left New York City on Oct. 16, planning to arrive in Les Sables d'Olonne, France, on Oct. 30 to participate in an around­the-world race that started Sunday. Three days after leaving New York, Plant asked a passing freighter to relay that he had lost electrical power, preventing him from using his long-distance radio gear and automatic pilot. 

Allen: "I've lost my reputation" 
Sunday, saying he thinks he'll never get his good name back after child molestation allegations arose amid a custody battle with longtime lover Mia Farrow. But the filmmaker said he doesn't care. "You know that doesn't bother me. That's the least of my concerns," he said. "I care -if you tell me that I can see my children and be with them, and all of that, that's all that I care about. "Police in Connecticut are investigation allegations Allen molested 7-year-old adopted daughter Dylan at Farrow's country home. Allen denies wrongdoing. 
ability is not required but is recommended. For more information and an application contact CDS International Inc. at 212-760-1400. 
• Interested in organizing humanitarian aid for Croatian and Bosnian refugees, or joining the ND/SMC Croatian Club? Please call Anthony at 273-2889 or Suzanne at 284-5006. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1889: The first jukebox made its debut in San Francisco, at the Palais Royale Saloon. 

• 
In 1936: The first edition of Life magazine was published. 

•In 
1963: President Lyndon B. Johnson proclaimed Nov. 25 a day of national mourning following the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. 

• 
In 1971: The People's Republic of China was seated in the 


U.N. Security Council. 
• 
In 1983: The Soviet delegation walked out of superpower talks on reducing medium-range nuclear weapons in Europe. 

• 
In 1991 : Yugoslavia's rival leaders agreed to a new cease­fire, the 14th of the Balkan civil war. 


Monday, Novemoer 23, 1992 1 ne uoserver page 3 
Kennedy assassinated in Dallas 29 years ago 
Speaker to examine Kennedy shootings 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR John F. Kennedy and his 
Saint Mary's Editor brother Robert tonight at 7 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's. 
Drawing on slides, still pho­tographs, motion pictures and He will also summarize the video footage, John Gordon, an numerous theories and expla­expert on political assassina­nations surrounding the assas­tions, will review, minute-by­sinations and indicate the areas minute, the sequence of events in both cases which need fur­in both shootings of President ther investigation, said Brett 
Art IS 22 on the 251h! 
Still dreaming of "greener pastures. 
Happy Birthday 
We Love You! Mom&Dad 
McLaughlin, SMC director of public relations. 
"One thing he'll probably dis­cuss was the presence of a sec­ond gun in both John's (assassination) and his brother Bobby's," McLaughlin said, adding that this is one of the more prominent theories. 
McLaughlin said he suspects that this theory is Gordon's fa­vorite, but added that Gordon "presents other sides and tends to leave off the discussion a lit­tle bit open-ended." 
Gordon has served as an ad­visor to the California State Archives and as a consultant to ABC, NBC and PBS on news programs, documentaries and made-for-television docu-dra­mas about the Kennedys. He also has taught courses on American politics and the his­tory of political assassination. 
McLaughlin added that Gor­don has done research into the secret service and how the 
L-.------------------------' oresidents are protected. 
* * * OFFICE OF ALCOHOL & DRUG EDUCATION 
;;:;;~;..;..;..;..;..;;~;;~;.~;..;..;..;..
.......................................... 
.....,..........ri'•J'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•
,.....,...................................... 
................ri'•J'•J'•rl'•......, ....
........................................... 
......................ri'•J'•rl'•ri'•J'•J'•
.............,...........................
...........,....,....,.............."'.
.......................................... 
......................J'•rl'•rl'•ri'•J'•rl'•
.........................,............... 
•J'•rl'•ri'•J'•J'•J'•ri'•J'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•
......................................... 
•J'•rl'•ri'•J'•J'•ri'•J'•ri'•"•"•J'•J'•J'•
......................................... 
•ri'•J'•ri'•J'•.,•rl'•rl'•rl'•............., 
WANTED 
Students to attend a one­time meeting to brainstorm alternative social activities where alcohol is not the central focus. 
DATE: Nov. 23, 1992 PLACE: NO Room LaFortune TIME: 10 p.m. 
REFRESHMENTS SERVED 
* * * 
People gather in Dallas to reflect on death of JFK 
DALLAS (AP) -President John Kennedy arrived in Dallas in searing sunshine 29 years ago Sunday, but his assassination cast a somber shadow that never quite left a corner of downtown. 
About 1 ,200 people marked the anniversary of the 35th president's death with a visit to The Sixth Floor exhibit at the former Texas School Book Depository, the site of sniper fire Nov. 22, 1963. 
At 12:30 p.m., the time three shots rang out as Kennedy's motorcade rolled through the streets of downtown Dallas, about 250 people tied green and white ribbons to trees near the so-called "grassy knoll," where some conspiracy theorists allege there was a second gunman. Some left flowers. 
The Warren Commission de­termined that Lee Harvey Oswald, acting alone, fired the 
DIDYOUKNO 

That while you are home feasting on Thanksgiving dinner, poor families in South Bend will go hungry with no food to feed their children... 
UNLESS YOU HELP! 
We will be delivering food baskets Monday, Tuesday & Wednesday of Thanksgiving week to these 350 poor families in our community. If you can donate any of your time during those three days, 
PLEASE CALL 
Kara Luckew X2693 ALSO, don't forget that the$ for these baskets comes from YOU. Don't forget to donate $1 at your hall mass on Sunday, November 23. 
fatal shots from the depository. 
But the exhibit of nearly 400 photographs, documentary films, graphs, charts and other information on the life, death and legacy of Kennedy left Betty Lauman and her step­daughter, Robyn, with ques­tions. 
"You leave here wondering two things: 'What would have happened had it not hap­pened?' and 'Who did it?"' she said. 
Exhibit spokesman Bob Porter said Sunday's turnout was slightly above average, but many visitors hadn't known it was the anniversary of Kennedy's death. 
"We're a little bit embar­rassed, but we didn't realize it until yesterday," said Debbey Boles, 43, of Lakeland, Fla., who toured the exhibit with her husband, Rick. 


~ 212.·192.2. ..."' 
~L----___j 

page 4 The Observer Monday, November 23, 1992 
the military faces internal wise advised a slow approach in the military is also being de­most ships ought to be open to change as well. Clinton has also and predicted that Congress bated, Pattison said. President women with the exception of
Clinton 
said that he intends to put an might overturn the presidential Bush recently appointed a submarines and amphibious immediate end to the historical order. commission to study the role of landing craft, he said. The
continued from page 1 
ban preventing homosexuals Pattison had no comment on women in the military. commission also recommended 
gram has gone from goals of 1,700 ensigns every year to about 1 ,000, nearly a forty per­cent cut, according to Pattison. 
"I expect we will continue to get a little bit smaller as the years go by," he continued, but added that because Navy ROTC allows students to pick which schools they wish to attend from a pool of 53, it would be hard to give a firm estimate. 
Along with budget changes, 
Program 
continued from page 1 
sents these television shows twice a year through Golden Dome Productions. In the past, such topics as marriage and ra1smg elementary and preschool children have been discussed. 
Each program has a different topic and a different audience in order to reach a wide range of viewers, according to Len­non. "We focus on one specific area," he said. "For example, for this program we sent 3,400 letters to high schools tQ inform them on the program and what it was on." 
The next presentation titled, "Our Family Roots: Why We Are, Who We Are," will address 
Careers 
continued from page 1 
tionship between Clark Atlanta and Notre Dame will benefit both institutions. 
"They will have the advan­tage of some of our expertise," he said. "And certainly they have expertise in addressing the needs of minority students in preparing them for competi­tive careers. If possible, we'd like to see some of their stu­dents come to our graduate school. It's a symbiotic relation­ship." 
Although the partnership is new this year, the relationship has been growing over the last few years, Smith said. 
"We've been deliberate in moving slow because I've 
Correction 
The caption under a photo on page 3 of Friday's Observer was incorrect. The man pictured was Sami Mnguni, a graduate student in theology. The Observer regrets the error. 
from serving in the military. 
Clinton's recent declaration has come under attack from all sides. On ABC's Face the Nation, Sam Nunn (D-GA). chair of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said he feared vio­lent attacks on military gays unless Clinton's policy reversal is "stretched out" over a period of time. 
According to the New York Times, Bob Dole, Republican Senate Minority Leader, like-
Chuck Lennon 
the topics of birth families and interpersonal relationships within families and will be tele­cast March 7, 1993. 
The panelists on yesterday's show were: 
•Patrick Utz, director of the ND counseling center and con­sultant to several hospitals on dysfunctional adolescents. 
learned from other universities that there's not enough time spent with people from each university getting to know each other," he said. 
"We've spent time cultivating relationships," he added. "It's important for that to take place before we can allow the rela­tionship to blossom." 
In addition to working on the relationships with Xavier and Clark Atlanta, Notre Dame is pursuing future partnerships with two Texas institutions. St. Mary's University of San Anto­nio and St. Edward's University of Austin. 
"They have ties to the His­panic community, and both schools are very interested in a possible partnership with us," Smith said. 
Please recycle this newspaper. 
the future of gays in the mili­tary, saying, "at this point in time, I believe the Pentagon's policy has already been ex­plained by Chief of Staff Colin Powell and Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney. Anything I had to add would merely be speculation." 
O'Brien was also reluctant to 
speculate on Clinton's declara­
tion. "No new policy has been 
released," he said. 
The future of service women 
•Darcia 
King O'Blenis, a 7th grade teacher at Navarre Mid­dle School in South Bend. 

•Kevin 
Jordan, chief psychol­ogist at Oaklawn Hospital in Goshen, Ind. 

•Joan 
Lennon, founder of Shamrock Preschool Early Childhood Education Centers in South Bend and co-founder of Concerned Parents at Adams High School in South Bend. 


"Clinton has stated that he wanted to wait for the commis­sion's results before deciding on any policy," Pattison said. 
The commission's results, re­leased last week, argued that 

rLife•s a tr1p• •••so take on~ 
$119*  
Amsterdam  $145*  
Madrid  $169*  
Guatemala  $145*  
Bangkok  $475*  

*FCJ"es CJ"e each Wi!tf from Chicago based on a roundtrip purchase. T~~Xes not induded Cl"ld restrictions apply. call for other wxldwide destinations, bolh one way Cl"ld rotlldtrip. 
Council Trawl 
1153 N. De.rlxm St, 9-ld floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 
Call your FREE copy of the 
Student Travels Magazine 
Mr. Pickwick's Stories for a Christmas Evening 
Tuesday, December 1 Washington Hall 8: 10 pm Students $7 Non-Students $10 
~&~ 
Tickets available at the LaFortune Information Desk, 239-8128 Sponsored by: SUB, VIVA, & The Student Activities Office. 
LOVE, YOUR ROOMIE 
women should be kept out of air 
combat and ground war. 
"Currently, we have no indi­
cation of what Clinton's going to 
do with the commission's re­
sults," Pattison said. 
Happy Birthday Laurie! You're the Best! 
Monday, November 23, 1992 
Students deported to Mexico 
OMAHA, Neb. (AP) -Two across the Mexican border, the high school students were Omaha World-Herald reported yanked from class and deported Sunday. to Mexico by immigration He had little money and no officials who said the teen­change of clothes. agers were illegally in the Immigration officials also ar­United States. rested Augustin Antunez, 15, at 
Two immigration officials South High School and deported summoned Ambrosio Lopez, 17, him. from an English class at Omaha Jim Ramirez, community re­
South High School on Nov. 6. He lations specialist for the Omaha was held at a detention center School District, said the Immi­over the weekend, then flown to gration and Naturalization southern Arizona and escorted Service acted irresponsibly. 
Guatemalan Imports 
Christmas Sale • Fundraiser Reductions up to 50% Many New Items 
Win $60 in merchandise you pick! Enter Raffle $1 per chance $3 for 5 chances 
Notre Dame Sorin Room in LaFortune November 30 -December 5 
Sponsored by Amnesty International 
The Observer 
Hoppv Birthdov Sean! 
Miss You 
See You In March 
Love Goonis 

page 5 
Institutions seek answers in tight times 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Schools that train teachers need to change their ways to meet tight budgets and prepare for the classrooms of the future, leaders of the American Association of State Colleges and Universities said Sunday. 
"Many of our presidents and campuses are under siege be­cause of the fiscal difficulties in which states find themselves," said James Appleberry, presi­dent of the association, as the group opened three days of meetings. 
At an opening session, a committee named to find cre­ative responses to the tough budgetary climate that schools face heard reports on reforms undertaken in half a dozen states from coast to coast. 
"Schools are doing things with land through joint ven­tures with private developers to build residential or recreational complexes with revenues going to an endowment fund," said Dr. Robert Shirley, president of the University of Southern Col­orado at Pueblo and chairman of the committee. 
CRUISE JOBs· ··~­
Students Needed! Earn$UXXl+Imonth workingforcrui..., .ttipeot tour companies. Holiday, Swnmer, and Full­Time employment available. For your '92/'93 employment program cal.l.; 
Cruise "t.mploymmt Servicu (206) 634-0468 ExL C 5584 

Solutions from your Apple Campus Reseller. The holiday gift you can really use. 
Tell your folks anew Mac~ntosh will help you succeed today as well as tomorrow. It shows you're thinking ahead. 
An Apple Macintosh"computer is the one holiday gift that will help 
you work better and faster from one new year to the next. Because Macintosh is so easy to use. And thousands of software applications are available to help you with any course you'll ever take. There's even software that allows you to exchange information with computers running MS-DOS or Windows. In fact, Macintosh is the most compatible computer you can buy. And the advantages of Macintosh don't end when school does -the majority of Fortune 1000 companies now use Macintosh computers: So ask your Apple Campus Reseller to help you choose which Macintosh to put at the top ofyour holiday gift list. 
Macintosh. It's more than apresent, it's afuture. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 Math/Computer Bullding 
239-7477 
© 1992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo and Macmtosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc MS·DOS is a registered trademark, and Windows a trademark, of Microsoft Corporation. 'Based on a survey conducted by Computer Intelligence. 1991. 

page 6 The Observer 

The Observer/Pat McHugh
Drafting up a storm 
Zahm Hall sophomore architecture student Matt Fitzgerald drafts his plan for the lobby of a fictitious Chicago Hotel Sunday night. 
Clinton could prompt Haitian exodus 
ANGE-A-GALETS, Haiti ­Haitians are awaiting Bill Clin­ton's inauguration with high expectations, ranging from a quick return of the country's exiled president to a warmer reception for boat people. 
"That's the only thing that's being talked about right now ­Jan. 20," said Roman Catholic priest Bill Quigley on La Go­nave, a dusty, deforested island that long has been a principal launching site for wooden boats crammed with U.S.-bound refugees. 
Quigley, an American who has lived on the island 12 years, said U.S. concerns of a new wave of boat people were well founded. He said most of about 50 boats La Gonave lost last year, when Haitians fled in droves after a bloody military coup ousted elected President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, have been replaced by new ones. 

"A new exodus? You can bet on it," he said. 
Clinton has pledged to make it easier for Haitians to apply for political asylum. During his campaign he criticized Presi­dent Bush for ordering the di­rect repatriation of refugees but, amid concern over a flood of refugees, aides now say he may not rescind the order. 
Nonetheless, on the pebbly beaches of Ange-a-Galets, a port town that links the island to mainland Haiti, workmen were banging together rough­hewn wooden boats. 
One of them, 55-year-old Leprincier Pierre, took a break 
t 
Show yourfamily FLORAL CO. you miss them Inc. on Thanksgiving! 
"" ___ 327 Lincolnway West, South Bend 
""-""-232-3354 
Mary B. Green Come in and Browse Open daily 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Sundays 9:00a.m. to 12:00 Noon Serving Notre Dame and St. Mary's Serving South Bend, Mishawaka & Granger for over 60 years 
Little Professor Book Center 
presen£s an lmling wilb 
Dr. Tom Morris 
join us for an engaging, funny and illuminating 
evening with Dr. TomMords, the University of Notre Dame's reknowned philosophy professor to celebrate the national premiere of his new book MaldngSenseojliAII. 
We will offer a 1096discounlon this book during the signing. 
Monday, Novem~r 23 • 7 -9pm 
e 
Little Professor Book. Center Ironwood Plaza North • State Road 23 at Ironwood • South Dend • 277-4488 Mon.-S~l.: IO:U0-9:00 • Sunday: Jll:(K}-5:UO 
from pounding shredded burlap with a wooden mallet into the seams of a 50-footer to talk of his new hopes. 
"We welcomed Clinton's vic­tory, because we were dying," he said. "We had lost our president, who was going to save us." 
"We are going to be saved now,"he said. 
Pierre said he believed Clinton would bring democracy back to Haiti. Echoed by many other poor Haitians both on and off La Gonave, his hopes reflect how large the United States looms in the country's history and national psyche. 
American troops occupied the country, the poorest in the Western Hemisphere, from 1915 to 1934. 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA-HERE COME Till-, llill:iH! 
NOTRE DAM.B CLUB OF ORANGB COUNTY INVITES YOU TO JOIN THE CELEBRATION: IN THH NOTRE DAME "TRADlTION OF EXCELLENCE": 
TH.B DBCADB OF DOMINANCE NOTRB DAME vs USC 
(1983-1992) 
Notre Dame Club of Orange County Weekend Headquarters: Anaheim Hilton llotel & Towers (Right Acros8 From Disneyland) 
Thursday, November 26, 1992: A Day of Fun In The Sun (Beach, Pool, Outdoors)· Than ksgiv!ng Day Dinner (Hotel Restaurants) 
Friday, November 27, 1992: 
Notre Dame Orange County -"Bookstore West" (Paeific B!illroom-Salon :\) Notre Dame Theater (Pacific Ballroom-Salon B) Notre Dame Pep R!illy -7:30PM (California Rallroom) (Door!'i Open At 6:00 PMJ Post-Pep Rally Party (California Ballroom) (DJ and Bond Until Late!) 
Saturday, November 28, 1992 (Game Day): Con tinen tal B reakf116 t (California Promenade) Notre Dame Orange County -"Bookstore West" (Pocific I3nllroom-Salon AJ Hound-Trip Bus Transportation -Hotel To L. 1\. Coliseum {Buses Leave & Return -In Front of Hotel) Tail Gate Party .. Coliseum (Los Angeles ND Club Sponsored) ND vs USC (5:00 PM PST) (Los Angeles Coliseum) Victory CelCbi'ation !'arty (Pacific Ballroom-Anaheim Hilton Hotel) (Begins After The Uatn(! and continues until Late!!) 
Sunday, November 29, 1992: Notre Dame Family Communion Bl'eakfast -10:00 AM (Pacific Ballroom) (With the Coaches, Team, Administration, Students, Celebrating Alumni • triends) 

For Information And Reservations Call Notre »•me Club Of Orange County HOTLINB: (714) 513-6321 
Monday, November 23, 1992 
Typhoon Gay reaches Guam, North M 
AGANA, Guam (AP) -The outer fringes of Typhoon Gay began lashing Guam and the Northern Marianas islands with high wind and heavy rain early Monday, the sixth typhoon to hit or threaten the Marianas in three months. 
"We feel scared. Just when they say it's a super typhoon, you get scared," said Visi Quitugua, the administrative officer in the mayor's office on Rota. the Northern Mariana is­land expected to get the brunt of the storm. 
Gay was dubbed a "super ty­phoon" Thursday in the Mar­shall Islands when its maximum sustained wind speed reached 150 mph. 
By 3 a.m. (12 p.m. EST Sun­day), wind was blowing at 45 to 65 mph across the island of 2,300 people, but there were no immediate reports of damage. 
"We're just standing by, waiting," said Quitugua. She said about 70 people had gone to shelters while most of the population was at home, "all boarded up." 
Wind on Guam was ustin to 

Have the best birthday ever. 
Love, MomandDad Svoboda 
Happy Birthdayl 
60 mph with "on and off" heavy rain, said Ken Bettini, at Guam Cable TV. 
zThe U.S. military's Typhoon Warning Center on Guam re­ported the eye of Gay was 90 miles east southeast of Guam at 6 a.m., moving west-northwest at 17 mph with sustained wind of 145 mph and gusts to 175 mph. 
To Amy, 

----~-----------------------­
Monday, November 23, 1992 The Observer page 7 
Iraqis to ask United Nations to ease economic sanctions 

goslavia, which now consists of 
tured more than 70 percent of Serbia and Montenegro. the republic, and Croat forces 

from glass shards. and movements fielded candi­Polls opened at 8 a.m. EST dates. and were to close at 5:30 p.m. 

Airborne radar and maritime hold much of the rest. The patrol aircraft will assist seven Muslims hold Sarajevo and little NATO ships in coordination else.
The Observer 
Troops deployed in Lima as Peruvians vote 
is searching for students who have 
LIMA, Peru (AP) -Peruvians rule, accusing lawmakers of for several weeks. lined up amid heavy security hampering his fight against the The government deployed
experience working with Aldus 
Sunday to vote for a new Shining Path rebels and drug 100,000 soldiers and police to Congress, but the two main op­traffickers. protect voters and polling sta­
Freehand, Adobe Illustrator, or 
position parties refused to par­The Shining Path, a fanatical tions against possible attacks by ticipate, saying the election was Maoist group weakened by the rebels. There were more than an attempt to legitimize a dicta­capture of its leader two 11 million registered voters, 
QuarkXpress to work in the Ad Design 
Department. Please contact Kevin 
torship. months ago, threatened to dis­and turnout appeared to be In a move backed by the mili­rupt the vote. At least half a high.
Hardman at 239-7471 if interested. 
tary, President Alberto Fujimori dozen small bombs exploded The 80-member assembly will dissolved the previous Congress around the capital Sunday, in­rewrite the constitution and sit in April and imposed one-man juring two people with cuts until 1995. Eighteen parties 
To Our Valued 
Unofficial projections were ex­About 250 international ob­pected Sunday night, but offi­servers monitored the vote for
Customers: cial results won't be released fairness. 
Due to the widening of 

lJrcoming Events
S. Rd. #23 and Edison 

Road we are forced to relocate. 
MONDAY.NOVEMBER23 Lecture EMILE SAHLIYEH 
The "New" I Can't Believe It's Yogurt will be 
Political Scientist, 
North Texas State University 
located 2 blocks north on St. Rd. #23 at the 
"NEW DIRECTIONS IN 
PALESTINIAN TIDNKING: 
Campus Shoppes Plaza. 
THEIR IMPLICATIONS FOR THE PEACE PROCESS" 7:30p.m. Hesb. Ctr. Auditorium
We will Close Thanksgiving Day andre, 
TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 24 
open at our new location Friday Dec, 4th at 
Presentation/Discussion 
GEORGE A. LOPEZ 
10:30 a.m. 
Acting Regan Director of the Kroc Institute; Professor, Department of


Notre Dame 

Coming Attractions 

Government and International Studies "LAST MINUTE TIPS FOR


-rG> • Espresso 
APPLYING TO GRADUATE 
SCHOOLS IN 
o· ~ •Cappuccino 
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS" 
>­
~
.2 
4:15p.m . 
g.· • Java Coast Gourmet 
Hesb. Ctr. Auditorium
\OLDI 

EdisonAngela 
Coffee Beans 
INSTITUTE FOR 
• Hand Scooped 

INTERNATIONAl
en 0" 
~ 
"0 "0 ~0 
>-Frozen Yogurt 
UJ <Q0 
I J)J((I~N~~;o;~?L:;
§
00 
• Muffins And More ... 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­
U.N. representatives said Sun­day the Security Council was unlikely to agree to ease eco­nomic sanctions imposed on Iraq after the Persian Gulf War despite fresh requests by top Iraqi officials. 
Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz and Foreign Minis­ter Mohammed Said al-Sahaf were scheduled to appear be­fore the council on Monday to request an easing of the em­bargo, which Baghdad blames for many civilian deaths. 
But the U.N. officials said Baghdad remains evasive in providing information about its nuclear weapons program. Cease-fire terms require Iraq to cooperate in dismantling the program before sanctions can be lifted. 
"There's been no movement to date which would give the council any inclination to con­sider lifting or modifying the sanctions any time in the near future," said Andre Erdos of Hungary, which holds the rotating council presidency this month. 
The council imposed sanc­tions to punish Iraq for invad­ing Kuwait in August 1990. Baghdad was routed from the emirate by U.S.-led forces in the 1991 war. 
A central demand was that Baghdad cooperate with U.N. experts in dismantling its nu­clear, chemical and biological weapons programs, and mis­siles with a range greater than 90 miles. 
Sarajevo cease-fire shattered 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -A once-promis­ing cease-fire virtually col-, lapsed Sunday in the heaviest artillery bombardment of Sarajevo since the truce went into effect 10 days ago. 
Bosnian authorities also ac­cused Serb forces of deploying Scud missiles in positions that threaten two northern towns. A Serb military spokesman denied the allegation. 
U.N. peacekeeping troops from Britain moved on Sunday to protect U.N. relief ware­houses in Travnik, a town 45 miles northwest of Sarajevo that is clogged with refugees fleeing approaching Serb forces. 
NATO warships began stop­ping and searching vessels entering Yugoslav territorial waters in line with a U.N. deci­sion Friday to toughen eco­nomic sanctions against Yu­officials said in Naples, Italy. 
The NATO ships include five destroyers from Italy, Germany, Greece, Turkey and Britain, plus a Dutch and an American frigate, the USS Halyburton. 
The NATO and European forces have been monitoring the embargo in the Adriatic since July, but they have not had the authority to stop and board ships. Most materials reaching Yugoslavia have come overland or along the Danube river. 
The embargo was imposed in May to punish Serbia for fo­menting the Bosnian war, which erupted after the republic's majority Muslims and Croats voted in February for independence from Yugoslavia. More than 14,000 people have been killed in the fighting. 
Serb rebels have since cap­
Viewpoint 
Monday, November 23, 1992
page 8 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ........•... Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .........•.••...•.... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Inner beauty hides external beast CBF Program offers a 

Dear Editor: statement about the society we prince. Regarding Kenya Johnson's live in, it is unfair to call it "a She grew to love him because 
summer of experience 
article about "Beauty and The light-hearted cartoon." That la­he started to portray his inner Beast," (The Observer, Nov. 17), bel belittles the effort and beauty. Also, Belle expresses Dear Editor: chip companies nationwide who I would like to comment on thought that was put into the that The Beast's Every year the University of draw heavily from this resource what I believe are some of the movie. unattractiveness derived from Chicago Graduate School of for recruiting. 
Business (GSB) invites approx­Other benefits for the CBF'sfoundations of The Walt Disney I can not imagine any other his attitude more than his 
Company. ending that would fit the physical appearance. imately 40 students from se­include automatic enrollment Mr. Walter Disney, the traditional Disney film. I am In her opinion the lected liberal arts colleges into the GSB within three years originator of this world-known sorry that you found it a little transformation came in the across the country to enroll in of completing their undergrad­
their Chicago Business Fellows uate education without having
organization, was a dreamer disappointing. You mentioned middle of the movie when he who loved happy endings. His that "Belle loved the The Beast changed from "coarse, mean, Program (CBF) the summer to take the GMAT'S. Not to ideals on creating have been for the simple fact that he was and unrefined" to dear and before their senior year. mention the experience of carried over to his staff, different." sweet. The purpose of this program spending the summer with the including the late Howard You emphasize that "the best The physical transfiguration is to encourage liberal arts stu­other Fellows and graduate Ashman, creator of The Beast lesson we can teach our at the end should be considered dents to explore the business students. and other characters such as, children today is that the symbolic of inner beauty taking world. The tuition for the CBF The selection process takes Ariel, from "The Little Mer­external is not the most impor­precedence over external flaws. Program is paid for by the Uni­place on each individual cam­
maid." tant characteristic." Through versity of Chicago. The Fellows pus. At Saint Mary's the process Although I do not believe Belle, Disney did just that. Belle Patricia J. Rangel attend two or three classes dur­includes completing the GSB Ashman and the rest of Disney fell in love with The Beast, not Lyons Hall ing the summer quarter, application as well as par­were trying to make a serious with the figure of a handsome Nov. 18, 1992 earning graduate school cred­ticipating in on-campus inter­
its. views. 
Weekly management semi­Saint Mary's College will be nars are hosted by various sending one student with a companies and business pro­liberal arts discipline to the CBF fessionals from the Chicago Program this summer. The area. Corporate visits are made informational meeting is to top companies throughout scheduled for Tuesday, Dec. 1, Chicago with opportunities for 1992 at 7pm in Haggar College liberal arts students. Center. All junior liberal arts 
And, the GSB holds career majors are welcome. workshops to help students with interview skills, resume Mendy Nitsch writing, etc. The Fall after the LeMans Hall program is completed, the GSB Gretchen Flicker 
If love is real, beauty won't fade away 
sends out a resume book of all Off Campus CBF's to approximately 80 blue-Nov. 20, 1992Dear Editor: pus who are only interested in a probably seem a little strange 
I am writing in response to pretty face. I agree with them, to most, but true love is what Kenya Johnson's article, "There but it is equally sad that many helps a relationship last. is more to beauty than just good females judge males only by looks" (The Observer, Nov. 17). l their appearance also. I applaud Kenya for writing recently saw Beauty and the Far too many people classify the article. I'm sure that she Beast for the first time. others as "ugly ducklings" would agree with me in wishing 
It was so good that I had to without realizing that they may that more people could be like watch it again the next day. have beauty on the inside; and Belle and love others for what's Like Kenya. the movie also because of this, they miss out inside. After all, outward made me think about the way on meeting the people who beauty can fade, but internal that society places too much have the most to offer. beauty can last forever. emphasis on outward beauty. What would have happened, 
A few nights ago, some had Belle married the Beast Valerie D. Childs friends were telling me that without him changing into a lyons Hall they are tired of guys on cam-prince? The marriage would Nov. 19, 1992 
DOOIESBURY QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'A critic is a gong at a railroad crossing clanging loudly and vainly as the train goes by.' 
Christopher Morley 
We'll keep on rollin' baby, submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint
Monday, November 23, 1992 page 9 
'Chill out children,' the Pope can defend himself 
Recent events have demon­strated yet again that the stu­dents at Notre Dame are so out of touch with reality that they think that they, their University, and their religion are the center of the universe. 
I am talking, of course, about the action taken by the self­righteous adolescents on the Student Senate who passed a resolution demanding that NBC apologize for Sinead O'Connor's symbolic act of ripping up the Pope's picture. 
There are two different sets of issues involved here, although only one has been discussed at all. The first issue concerns whether or not the Student Senate was right in passing the resolution. 
It seems to me that this is not the kind of issue which student government should be involved in. What happens on late night television has very little to do with the quality of educational and other experiences at Notre Dame. which are the traditional purview of student government. 
I am surprised that they could pull themselves away from bashing graduate education and research to consider this issue. Perhaps they were able to do this because of the "special relationship" which allegedly exists between Notre Dame and NBC. 
I fail to see how a business relationship where Notre Dame performs a certain function-in 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
this case, playing football-and NBC pays them well for this function, can be described as special. Further, whatever kind of relationship Notre Dame has with NBC, it surely does not involve veto power over its programming. 
If the members of the Student Senate were so offended and outraged, maybe they should have, instead, called for Notre Dame to cancel its lucrative contract with the Satan of the entertainment industry. 
More troubling are the impli­cations regarding censorship and freedom of expression. The Student Senate says that it was reacting tointolerance. Yet, this very act of attempted censorship is, itself, an act of intolerance. If you are offended by something on television, you have the option of turning it off. 
The inevitable comparisons to Salman Rushdie have been made elsewhere, but the point bears repeating. Once we start putting forth one way of think­ing and try to force others to think the same way and prevent them from expressing their own opinions, we are well on our 

Kurt Mills On The Other Hand 
The above points are fairly obvious. However, an important part of the incident has been glossed over. The media have said repeatedly that her act of tearing up the picture and saying "fight the real enemy" was not connected to the song she sang right before-Bob Marley' s "War"-and thus had no meaning. 
It is, indeed, hard to figure out exactly what her message was. However, actually examining the lyrics might provide a few helpful hints. 
"War" is a protest song about injustice and discrimination. It talks about the fact that until there are no more first class and second class citizens, we will have war, or at least civil and social unrest. What, you might ask, does this have to do with the Pope? 
After all, he is supposed to be a representative of God and certainly would not promote such divisiveness. Yet, some of lesbians do exactly this. 
By excluding women from certain activities and by denying them the right to control their bodies, and by denouncing gays and lesbians, he is attempting to create a second class citizenry, which, as we have seen, certainly does not promote social harmony. 
By condemning birth control, he has contributed to the global problem of population explosion which, in turn, can increase pressures for unrest and war. 
In addition, the song talks specifically about South Africa. The Pope has probably at some point made a statement de­nouncing apartheid. Yet, ac­cording to sources in South Africa, he has also worked to undermine calls for the end of apartheid. 
In the 1980's, the Institute for Contextual Theology in South Africa put forth the Kairos document which questioned the South African state's legitimacy because of its continued support of apartheid. Based on this document, the South African Council of Churches declared the South African 
The South Afriean Bishops Conferenee had declared apartheid a sin and supported sanctions against South Africa, and according to sources, also wanted to declare the state il­legitimate. 
However, pressure was applied from Rome to prevent them from doing so. Apparently, the Pope was annoyed by what he perceived as pesky liberation theologians in Latin America (we know how he has silenced various people of their ilk in Latin America) who he was worried might engage in similar condemnations. 
So, concerned. about the precedent which might have been set by such action in South Africa, the Vatican intervened with the South African bishops to prevent them from truly identifying the South African state for the evil it is. This is an action which indicates more concern with promoting papal authority than pursuing justice. 
So, I say to the members of the Student Senate who voted for the dangerous and ill-con­ceived resolution: chill out chil­dren. The Pope can take care of himself, although he will have trouble answering for some of his actions. 
Kurt Mills is a doctoral candidate in the Department of Government and International Studies. His column appears every other Monday. 
Fisher asks, 'May I make one related observation?' 
Dear Editor: personally have no wish to Explaining further, the Sacred the Congregation's 1986 doc­
The knee-jerk invective harm homosexuals, and I fully Congregation says (section 11), ument on the same subject]. That essentially is the against my Nov. 6 paid com­agree with the June/July Vati­that in certain areas, such as Notre Dame prides itself on philosophy which undergirds mentary concerning the can documents which state "employment of teachers, or being a Catholic Research Insti­such entities as Planned Par­teaching of the Catholic Church (section 7): "The intrinsic dig­coaches, and in military re­tution. Accordingly, I strongly enthood, the Rockefeller Foun­on homosexuality is not sur­nity of each person must always cruitment" it is "not unjust dis­recommend that anyone truly dation, and the World Watch prising. be respected in word, in action crimination to take sexual ori­interested in the Church's Institute. It should never be the 
However, I am saddened by and in law." entation into account ... " teaching on the morality of philosophy dominant at Notre 
the ad hominem personal I also agree with the para­Civil rights are not absolute, homosexuality should take a Dame. attacks. The strident prose is graph which follows immedi­the Vatican documents assert in few moments to read the doc­the ages-old reaction to ately after that sentence. It section 12. "They can be le­uments mentioned above, and The gentle C.S.C. devotee of 
unwelcome news: "Kill the says: gitimately limited for objectively their internal citations. Surely, Bartlett also thought I "should messenger!" "But the proper reaction to disordered external conduct. Campus Ministry will do every­come here to stay for awhile, 
Regardless, I am delighted to crimes committed against ho­This is sometimes not only thing possible to make those and see that despite its growing make the Notre Dame family mosexual persons should not be licit but obligatory .... Thus it is documents available. pains, Notre Dame has not lost aware of the actual Church to claim that the homosexual accepted that the state may re­In his column on Nov. 13, the the state of grace." I did. teaching on the issue. As re­condition is not disordered. strict the exercise of rights, for amiably acerbic Father Robert cently as June and July, 1992, When such a claim is made example, in the case of conta­Griffin, C.S.C. ("Father Chips") I came from the Washington, 
the Vatican's Sacred Congrega­and when homosexual activity gious or mentally ill persons, in suggests that objections to ho­D.C. area thirty months ago to tion on the Doctrine of the Faith is consequently condoned, or order to protect the common mosexuality reflect a penumbra retire here because I love the put the reality of the situation when civil legislation is intro­good. " of Nazi philosophy. He should external ambiance, the memo­
even more starkly. duced to protect behavior to Concluding, the Vatican know that I voluntarily entered ries, the great people unique to 
Both summertime versions of which no one has any conceiv­guidelines assert: "16) Finally, military service to violently op­this campus, and because Notre the Holy See's fixed opinion on able right, neither the Church where a matter of the common pose Nazism and other Dame helped to mold my mind. homosexuality reaffirm a nor society at large should be good is concerned, it is inap­totalitarian dictatorships. similar 1986 communication to surprised when other distorted propriate for Church authorities If I may make one related ob­the Bishops on the same notions and practices gain to endorse or remain neutral I did not go into battle to servation. Perhaps the cruci­subject. ground and irrational and vio­toward adverse legislation even make America safe for fixes spread throughout the 
The June/July Vatican letters lent reactions increase." if it grants exceptions to Church Gnosticism and Manicheeism, a campus should be replaced by are intended as Church guide­The documents continue: " organizations and institutions. philosophy which posits that willow trees, because the Uni­lines for "the conscientious 10) 'Sexual orientation' does The Church has the re­matter is evil, and that every versity now seems to bend so Catholic legislator, voter, or not constitute a quality compa­sponsibility to promote family effort must be made to stamp easily to the winds which blow Church authority" who is con­rable to race, ethnic back­life and the public morality of out such evil. Thus, the from the academic liberal fronted with laws relating to ground, etc., in respect to the entire civil society on the Manichean mentality advocates establishment. "discrimination on the basis of nondiscrimination. Unlike basis of fundamental moral as "good" homosexuality, 
homosexual orientation." these, homosexual orientation values, not simply to protect abortion, and contraception, all Paul A. Fisher As David Green in his Nov. 16 is an objective disorder ... and herself from the application of of which prevent the creation of Class of 1943 letter correctly points out, I evokes moral concern." harmful laws (cf. no. 17)" [of "evil" human "matter." Nov. 17, 1992 
Is NO losing its spirit for the sake of a new image? 
Dear Editor: 
I attended the Boston College game on Nov. 7, 1992. The weather cooperated and it was a great football day. 
However, I was really disap­pointed once I got to the sta­dium. For a school that boosts in being so first class, it is cer­tainly missing the mark when it comes to their stadium. 
First off, it was mass chaos trying to get to your seat. You were pushed, shoved, pulled and felt you had an aerobic workout by the time you got to your seat. 
Then, the worst part, when you get to your seat you find out you only have half a seat allotted and you had better not mind half sitting on the stranger next to you. 
To make matters worse, seats were double sold in our row, so suck it in and tighten up because you have to make room for one more person. And, to think, I paid $30.00 a seat for these conditions. 
I thank God no one around me had a medical emergency! They would die before any help could reach them. But, on their grave it could state "Died in the Spirit of Notre Dame". 
Is Notre Dame getting that greedy for money that the safety of their fans is no longer a consideration? 
I tried to use the restroom at half time. What a Joke! I not only didn't make it into the restroom but had to wait in line again to get back to my seat. 
What happened to all the Irish Spirit? The leprechaun didn't go around the field once and excite the crowd. I looked forward to him getting the wave going. 
That's what makes going to a live game so much fun. I can honestly say, I'll think twice before I give up the comforts of home to watch a game before going to the stadium. 
I think Notre Dame is trying too hard to create a new image and in the process is losing what the "Fighting Irish" are all about. Let's get back that Spirit! 
Ginny Schumacher Mishawaka, IN Nov. 11, 1992 
Accent 
Monday, November 23, 1992
page 10 

Editor's note: Since retiring from his coaching position at Notre Dame, Richard "Digger" Phelps has be?or:ne a heralded player in the Bush admznzstra­tion 's "Weed and Seed" program. Observer Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant interviewed Phelps in Washington D.C. over the summer and in subsequent tele­phone calls this fall. 
By MONICA YANT Editor-in-Chief 
Dodging phone calls behind a stately, yet cluttered, executive desk, Richard "Digger" Phelps sounds like a Washington power broker with the blue suit and red tie to prove it. No, he can't come to a luncheon on the Hill. Sure, he'd be happy to look into a pro~am in San Antonio. Yes, yes, yes -gettmg the IBM folks involved would be a fabulous idea. 
To know this Digger Phelps is to know he's come a long way from the locker room. For 20 years, he was Notre Dame. He looked it, in the now immortal green sportcoat. He spoke it, as one ?f t~e University's most enthusiastic supporters. He lived it, boasting a perfect graduation record of 56 basketball players in 20 years. 
But now his success stories are told off the court -on the streets of some of the nation's poorest inner cities where Phelps is fighting the drug war and 
working  to  rebuild  crime-ridden  
communities.  
•••  

When he retired from Notre Dame in the spring of 1991, the coac~ with _an unusual penchant for commumty serVIce 
tossed around life-after-basketball op­tions with some friends in high places-including President George Bush. 
He met Bush at a charity golf tournament 18 years ago and their relationship flourished over the years. "I had told him at one point that before he got out of his first term I would like to 
work with him," Phelps recalls. 
While Phelps negotiated with Bush administration officials, a brief stint as an NCAA tournament commentator came and went. So did rumors of his taking another coaching position. Then, in April of 1992, Bush named Phelps special assistant to the director of the National Drug Control Policy and liaison 
for Operation "Weed and------------calls the town "a third-
Seed." ' th" 
A lofty title with a simple Once we get IS message, Phelps i~sist.s: COUntry COnVinced As Bush's fighter pilot m . , . . the war on drugs, "Weed that ItS JUSt go1ng to and Seed" . is designed to take people-forget "weed" neighborhoods of . . 
drugs. crime and violence the politiCS-We can and "seed" th~m with change it.' 
programs to Improve housing, establish community policing and create employment . 
opportunities. -Digger Phelps and some 3,000 feet of 
"[We try to) give the streets back to the neighborhood," Phelps says. "but the 
neighborhood takes responsibility." 
Federal, state, local and private forces help the cause. Yet federal funding for 1993 is a question mark after Bush's recent veto of a pork-laden urban aid and tax bill that contained the $500 mil­lion "Weed and Seed" budget. 
Phelps wears many hats in the program, dabbling in sales and marketing to lure grassroots or­ganizations and businesses to the effort. The bulk of his work is done on the road, in cities like Los Angeles, Houston and Cleveland, where he meets with 
/ 
undeveloped property on Lake Michigan. His eyes flicker as the mental wheels 
turn: With a train service here and a 
canal there. a developed beach area here and revitalized downtown there, Phelps quickly transforms the city into a weekend-escape resort filled with vacationing Chicagoans. And all in one breath. _
Benton Harbor officials are working with Phelps on the solutions. "They're doing it on state and local level, and waiting for federal money," he says. "The grassroots programs, the neigh­borhood associations are doing it." 
Yet Phelps insists the "Weed and Seed" Democrats, conservatives, liberals ... have to play in this game of life, because we're losing." 
But if a self-described Democrat briefing a Republican president on his drug program seems odd, try telling it to the man who insists the issues aren't about partisanship or politics; they're about people. 
"Give me two hours a week. Teach some woman how to read on a Saturday or Sunday. Go put your arm around some kid and go talk to him. Once we start with that, the other things will follow." 
If the perspective sounds folksy and idealistic, it is. Phelps preaches a philosophy of "crossing the _str_e~t." urging middle and ~pper cla~s mdiVId~­als to get involved m the sociOeconomic problems that plague the nation's inner cities. 
"I call it a game of life," he says. "These people know how to lose, I'm trying to teach them how to win . . . If I get other people to play in the game of life and help these people with their needs, we can teach them how to win to get it done." 
Athletic analogies aside, Phelps' game is being played at high stakes around the country and in areas closer to home than most would admit. "We've got to ask, 'Why is this happening in neighborhoods,' whether it's South Bend or South Central Los Angeles or the South Bronx." 
For Phelps, the answer must involve untapped corporate sources. He asks 

-~. 
Photo courtesy of Sports Information · d. ·d t help
In operation "Weed and Seed," Phelps urges middle and upper c1ass In lVI ua s 1 o 
fight urban decay. community officials to plan "Weed and 
Seed" strategies. Less than one hour's drive from Notre Dame, Benton Harbor, Mich., is one of Phelps' hopefuls. He 
world city," likening the high unemployment and drug use to tough urban 
areas across the nation. 
"They've got so much potential," Phelps says of Benton Harbor residents who are just 
90 miles away from Chicago. Enter his idealism: He believes the town's best assets are its proximity to Chicago concept involves more than band-aids 
and dollar signs: "It's not money. It's people understanding." 
What Phelps wants people to understand is that the nation needs a major face-lift to stop an urban decay in which "the mindset is that young people know they'll be dead by 21." 
•He advocates reforms in gun control 
laws which would keep firearms away from young people. 
•He believes in 'Th 
making drug ese peep e n0 W separated from his wife treatment . options how to lose I'm trying Terry and home in South 
more accessible to the ' Bend. For Phelps, the poor. to teach them how to chance to put his 
•And he believes in · "f 1 t th networking skills and individuals making the Wln ...l ge 0 er persuasive powers to ~ost of their g?d-people to play in the work for the needy feels 
given talents, usmg all too right. the government only game Of life and help "My father, an wchenpenrecessaHryo.uTsai·nkge these people with their undertaker, always said to 
0 0 us as kids that all races 
DevelopT?.ent in New needS We can teach are our races, all religions Orleans: If there are ' are our religions, all four women who are them how to win to get colors of skins are our good cooks, maybe 't d , colors of skins. That's they . can st~rt a I one. always made the biggest catenng busmes~. -Digger Phelps impression on me. 
Maybe the Small Busi­
businesses to do more than donate 
money -to actively participate in community programs because he believes they should. 
Phelps' partisanship shows only when he discusses the responsibilities businesses have in domestic affairs. "(Bush) left corporate America alone be­cause corporate America wanted to be left alone. But corporate America hasn't given back, from the boom of the 1980s to the needs of these cities of the 1990s, 
so they point the finger at Bush. "Corporate America and the 
foundations aren't on the [Capitol] Hill. But they can get into the streets in these neighborhoods and make a difference." 
"It's been the most incredible seven months of my 51 years," says Phelps of his stint inside and outside the Beltway. But whether the change in presidential leadership come January will put a halt 
to the "Weed and Seed" program is still unknown. Phelps has said all along that he's 
willing to stay in Washing­ton for four more years, in 1 k spite of the strain of being 
ness Association will get il!volved." 
Phelps' message centers around people and is directed at a non-partisan audience. "I think Republicans, 
"Here I am a Democrat. I'm just committed to the issue. Once we get this country convinced that it's just gofng to take people -forget the politics -we can change it." 
-------------------------------~----~----------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------, 
Monday, November 23, 1992 The Observer page 11 
Win 
continued from page 16 
began to pour it on with an all out. aggressive offensive attack. Eighteen seconds after Banko's goal, WMU soph Ryan D'Arcy hit a screaming shot past Pic­conatto. 
The constant pressure brought out the best in the Irish defense and the crowd began to roar. Then, with 30 seconds left, WMU pulled their goalie and things became chaotic. 
Notre Dame freshman James Morshead missed an open netter by inches. WMU brought the puck back into the Irish zone and senior captain Pat Ferschweiler came free with the puck in front of the net. However, the luck of the Irish prevailed, because Fer­schweiler's shot hit the top of the goal and the Irish were able to control the puck and gain their first win. 
Describing the last 30 sec­

onds, Schafer said, "I was scared that one small turning point would tie the game." For­tunately, the puck stayed out of the net. Schafer added, "we de­served to win and we worked hard; it was a great team effort and we had to play our absolute best, which we did." 
After so many close losses to ranked opponents, the Irish coach attributed the win to the fact that his players, "played smart, inspired hockey and made the easy plays needed to win games." 
As for Picconatto' outstanding play in goal, Schafer felt, "Carl Picconatto has worked so hard and I'm happy to see him play­ing well." 
The Irish didn't have much time to rest on their laurels, because Saturday night they faced WMU again in Kalama­zoo, Michigan. The Broncos came out inspired to avenge Friday night's loss, while Schafer realized "we didn't play our best hockey." As a result, WMU came out on top 5-4. 
"WMU was an extremely bet­ter team on Saturday and they came out ready to play," said Schafer. 
Although ND fell behind 2-0 early into the second period, Bruininks scored his first col­legiate goal to get the Irish closer. However, WM's star freshman Chris Brooks added a goal and Ferschweiler tacked on another one to make it 4-1. 
Notre Dame fought back and put themselves in position to win the game. Janicke scored his fifth goal of the year at the end of the second period and freshman Chris Bailes scored his second of the season with 16 minutes left in the game. 
But it wasn't meant to be for the Irish, as Brooks completed his hat trick with 2:53 left. Irish senior Sterling Black closed out the scoring with his second of the season. 
Schafer described Brooks play as, "hustling and being in the right place at the right time." 
''I'm happy to see we're playing better," he said. "This was a testimony to the fact that 
Women's swimming cruises past Ball State 
By HALEY SCOTT 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swim team crushed Ball State University last Friday night by a score of 175.5 to 121.5. The Irish won 13 of 16 events, in­cluding all 12 of the individual swimming events. 
Notre Dame began the meet with Tanya Williams, Jesslyn Peterson, Kelly Walsh, and Amber Wiebe winning the medley relay with a time of 1:49.67, setting the tone for the rest of the meet. 
Senior Kay Broderick said, "It was nice to take charge from the beginning of the meet. There was no question that we dominated." 
Broderick was one of several individual winners, winning the 200 yard backstroke. Broderick also took second place, to Cara Garvey, in the 100 yard Back. 
Notre Dame head coach Tim Welsh commented that Broder­ick's 200 backstroke, "sticks out in my mind as one of the exceptional races of the meet, and of her career. She really raced aggressively." 
Notre Dame was also in complete control of the middle distance and distance freestyle events, as anticipated. Placing first, second, and third in the 200 yard freestyle were Jenni Dahl, Susan Bohdan, and Lorrei Horenkamp, respectively. Each swam their best times of the season. Dahl and Bohdan also took a one-two finish in the 500 yard freestyle. 
In the longest event of the meet, the 1000 yard freestyle, Notre Dame only had two swimmers: Joy Michnowicz and Kristen Heath. They finished first and second. 
Notre Dame also swam well in the sprint events. As opposed to last year's Ball State domination in the 100 yard freestyle, freshman Jesslyn Peterson scored for the Irish with a first place time of 53.31. The closest Ball State came to winning an individual event was in the 50 yard freestyle, where Cardinal Sheri Kreuger tied Amber Wiebe for the win. 
As usual, the Irish swam ex­tremely well in the stroke (including the breathstroke and butterfly) events. Breathstroker Amy Bethem had what Welsh called "her best meet in over a year." The sophomore from Reading, PA, won the 200 breathstroke with a season-best time of 2:26.77. Bethem also placed second in the 100 breathstroke behind Peterson. 
Senior co-captain Tanya Williams placed first in both the 100 yard and 200 yard butterfly events. Williams' time in the 100 butterfly, 57.06, is the fastest she has swam at Notre Dame, a new university record. 
Welsh was pleased with the 
The Observer/Brian McDaunough A Notre Dame player controls the puck during Friday night's win. 
it will take tremendous amounts for Thanksgiving, the Irish will of work to win games and we host Michigan State Friday must make smart plays with night and play Michigan at the regularity." Palace in Auburn Hills on Sat-
Although school will be out urday. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

result of the meet. "Everyone from the seniors to the fresh­men swam well. It was a won­derful display of team perfor­mance and team balance in the sprint, distance, and stroke events." 
The next meet for the Irish is the National Catholics champi­onships at the University of Rhode Island on December 3-5. 
Bohdan said the meet against Ball State has made her "excited for the team to shave and taper and go even faster at National Catholics." 
"I can't wait to see what hap­pens next," added Welsh. "There is a lot in store for this team. I think we are going to be very good." 
The Observer accepts classitieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline tor next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
ATIENTION: 
For more information and 
assistance regarding the 
investigation of financing, business 
opportunities and work-at-home 
opportunities, THE OBSERVER 
urges its readers to contact the 
Better Business Bureau of 
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., 
Suite 9. South Bend, IN 46637­
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­
9121 or 800-439-5313. 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
TYPING 287-4082 
All WORDPROCESSING services. Andy 234-8789 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Lost: GOLD PULSAR WATCH please call me if found Jen X1271 
LOST: Sister's N.J. license on B.C. wkend name-Meghan Shannon REWARD! call Joellenx4814 
LOST-AT BRIDGETS AFTER BC 
GAME, A PURPLE SKI JACKET 
WITH A PINK ZIP-OUT LINER. 
PLEASE CALL MIKE X1103 
LOST IN THE FIELD FRENZY AFTER THE IRISH VICTORY: Blue Noter Dame w/ about 8 beer 
caps snaped to it. A Green snap on hood. A Blue snap on hood. 
$$$$ CASH $$$$$$$$ 
$$$$ REWARD $$$$$$$$ 
Happy Happy! Joy Joy! 
Ren & Stimpy Rules 
/-------­
LOST -Gold Claddagh wedding band in front of Macris Deli HUGE CASH REWARD! Call liz 1271 
HELP ... SKI SEASON IS NEAR !!! 
BUT my SKI IS are NOT HERE. LOST: Two pairs of downhill skiis in blue ski bag,{Rossignol 4S & K2) LAST SEEN: Farley Hall , but could be anywhere. I know, pretty difficult to "lose" ... Please contact Paula w/ and for info @ 4271. Reward if found. Thanks. 
WANTED 
••••••••••••wANTED••••..•••..••• Ride to Scranton. PA or any where along 1-80 in PA for Thanksgiving. Will help with gas, tolls and driving. Flexible in departure and return times. CALL JILL@ X4758 
FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!! 
Individuals and Student Organizations wanted to promote the Hottest Spring Break Destinations, call the nation's leader. Inter-Campus programs 
1-800-327-6013. 
HELP A DESPERATE TARHEEL GET BACK TO NC FOR XMAS 
BREAK ERIC X1757 
Looking for a male undergrad who wants to move off campus for summer or next year. A friend of mine is moving out to South Bend and is in desperate need of finding a roommate. He's a really nice guy. I promise. If you're interested please call Maria x4266 -you won't be sorry!! 
Female roommate wanted-Campus View Apts. for next semester. Call Erin or Nancy 273-2565. 
Babysitter wanted for occasional evenings out. Experience & own transportation preferred. Pay negotiable. Call277-9682 ext 632. 
I NEED A RIDE TO THE MILWAUKEE AREA WED NOV25 CALL JULIE X3736 
Ride wanted to CLEVELAND for Thanksgiving Break. 
Will pay for gas, tolls, and maybe fries along the way!!! 
Caii284-5254.... .THANKS!!! 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
ROOMMATE WANTED: to live w/ 2 fern. grad students $175, incl. util., washer/dryer call277-20651v message 
FOR SALE 
IBM COMPATIBLE SOFTWARE: 
$2 EACH. WANTED: COMPUTERS. 1530 WESTERN AVE., SB. 287-7550. 
CHRISTMAS SWEATSHIRTS for 
sale!ll Call to see samples ... 273­
2967. 
SKIS 
Atomic 833 sl -203 em. 
new, great price 
call Kevin x1062 
For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call 
Rita Delivery on Campus 
234-6524 SEGA GENESIS & GMS: BST OFR 273-2514 
Selling a plane ticket to North Carolina over Thanksgiving break. Interested? Call Dave at 283-3662. 
SONY INTEGRATED AMPLIFIER 135 watts/channel, full remote, EO NEVER USED. $150 I OBO 
Jason x2990 
TICKETS 
@@@@@@@@@@ 
Feel the sun, Feel the sand, See the coast, Enjoy the culture, 
All this and more for those who buy my USC GAs. 
Go to CAll & not South Bend with the help of my GAs. 
Clarke 234-9433 
@2@2@2@2@2@ 
FOR SALE -2 U.S.C. TIX CALL TED-513-492-5190 
PERSONAL 
HeyNiff 
AMANDA KAY have a wonderful day 
OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 
ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Confidential and legal. Expenses paid. Call Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805) 520-5978 or attorney {818) 241­5535. 
MEN AND WOMEN 
FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE 
For more info, call COSIMO'S 277-1875. 
PIMAllY PIMAILY PIMAILY 
PIMAILY 
SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK '93! JAMAICA, CANCUN, FLORIDA FROM $119. BOOK EARLY, SAVE $$. ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL FREE! CALL 1-800-426-7710. 
$5.50 HAIRCUTS 
VITO'S BARBER & STYLING SHOP 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 233-4767 
ADOPTION: Loving Catholic couple dreams of sharing life with newborn. Hear us on our taped message. Confidential. Expenses paid. 1-800­467-8522. 
Forget Thanksgiving! Get ready for Christmas with UNCLE ROSCOE! 
PLEASE HELP, NEED RIDE FOR 2 TO DAYTON, OH FOR THANKSGIVING, WILL HELP PAY GAS/TOLLS. CALL 
DAN, X2318 
Hey, SZABOI! May you never have to swear to become a priest infront of SUDS again. Happy 21st birthday! -from the half of the SMC staff you hooked up with. 
LOSE FAT! Healthy, guaranteed diet program. Affordable. Call (616)471­3970. 
! !! !! !! !! !! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! I I ! I ! ! I ! I !! 
HELP! We have had an overwhelming #of requests for Thanksgiving baskets this year. PLEASE help us shop, arrange and/or deliver, and share the blessings of the holiday with families in need. 
Monday-Wednesday, 11/23-25: 8 a.m.-meet at the esc to go grocery shopping. 12 noon-4 p.m.-come to the esc at any time to help put food in baskets. 4 p.m. on-Help deliver baskets to homes in the area. 
They need you. Please help us. Call2639, 4059, or 271-7889 with questions. 
God bless, The World Hunger Coalition 
Christmas comes early this year. NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB CHRISTMAS CONCERT Saturday, December 12, at 8:15 p.m. in the J.A.C.C. 
I'm driving to ATHENS, GA {via atlanta) for Thanksgiving & I NEED someone to ride with me. If interested, please call 283-2454 for details. 
How many days 'til there's a red headed woman in new jersey? I don't know i'm asking? 
2 all instigators I have not dated anyone at NO so get a life and stay out of mine Love Ed Fletes 
page 12 The Observer Monday, November 23, 1992 
Ball State no match for determined Notre Dame swimmers 
By ALLISON MCCARTHY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish seemed unstoppable in their home meet Friday night against Ball State University. 
Facing what had been hailed as one of the toughest oppo­nents on this year's schedule, the men's swimming team showed no mercy to the Cardi­nals, emerging with a 137-100 victory. 
"We've been training very well this season, especially for the past two weeks,"stated Irish head coach Tim Welsh. "We've been saying to ourselves we would have a breakthrough meet sometime. It happened to be Friday. 
"We were great across the board, from the first to the last event, including the diving. This was true for all classes. Everyone improved their times on Friday. When you swim like that, the score takes care of it­self." 
Notre Dame won nine of the eleven swimming events on the evening and took both second places in diving for a total of nine first, five second, eight third. and eight fourth place winners, all of which scored points in the Irish win. 
According to Welsh, "The meet reflected really good bal­ance and team growth." No one class dominated the meet. "The 200 free, for instance, had a swimmer from each class, the 500 free had four freshmen, and the 200 back had two freshmen and two seniors in it," said Welsh. 
In several events, the Irish swam so well that they were racing solely against their own teammates. In the 200 I.M. and the 200 back, Notre Dame swept first, second, and third places. 
"We were counting on the strength of our stroke events to help us win this meet, and our swimmers came through for us," said Welsh. 
The 200 back proved the tal­ents of this year's co-captains, seniors Tom Whowell and John Godfrey, who claimed first and second laces, respectively. 
Happy 21st 
from your fami[y 
The race was one of the closest of the evening with Whowell finishing at 1:55.32 and Godfrey at 1:55.52. Freshman Ross Parrish took third with a time of 1:57.46. 
The 200 I.M. was another strong event for the Irish. Se­nior Colin Cooley placed first with a 1:57.46, while Senior Ed Broderick and freshman Rob Flynn secured second and third place points for the team. 
A constant and exceptional contributor to the team this year has been senior Greg 
Cornick. Cornick took his fourth first place win of the season in the 100 free on Fri­day with a time of 47.33. He has won the 100 free in every dual meet this season. 
Cornick also placed first in the 200 free with a time of 
1:44.96 and propelled his team to a come-from-behind victory in the 400 free relay, with a split of 46.1, beating the Cardi­nals by over three seconds. 
"He has been sprinting ex­ceptionally well," said Welsh of the senior freestyler. 
Newly Remodeled 
Notre Dame Apartments 
Now available for the 2nd semester and '93 , '94 school year Call 232 , 8256 for info and scheduled showings 
Monday, November 23, 1992 The Observer page 13 
Men's cross country to compete in national meet .... 
By SEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
The NCAA Championship has arrived. Today the Notre Dame men's cross country team will face the 22 best teams in the nation. The Irish, ranked ninth nationally, qualified last weekend in the District Meet in Bloomington, Indiana for the NCAA tournament. 
While the districts were an extremely important meet, the NCAA Championships have been the focus of the Irish since the first day of practice. 
"It's the pinnacle of cross country running at the collegiate level," said 

By EILEEN MCGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team lost their first two games of the season this weekend in the Lake Forest Tournament after winning both pre-season scrimmage games. They lost to both Lake Forest 74-64 and University of Chicago 7 4-73. 
Against Lake Forest, the Belles had the lead until the last five minutes, when Lake Forest came alive and stole the game. 
"We're disappointed but we knew our opponents were strong," explained Coach Marv Wood who is currently in his eighth season at Saint Mary's . "We were pleased, however, that we played well." 
Co-captain Julie Snyder agreed. "Both games were close but we did not come out on top. We knew that we could have beaten both teams." 
With 14 turnovers and a 38% shooting percentage from the field and 58% from the line, the Belles know that they need to work on their offensive game. However, they easily out-re­bounded both Lake Forest and University of Chicago 45-32 and 41-28 respectively. 
"We really need to make this a positive experience," stated 
CATCH THE SOUTH SHORE LINE AT THE 
MICHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT TERMINAL TO 
DOWNTOWN CHICAGO. 
4 westbound trains and 3 eastbound trains every weekday. 8 trains in both directions every 2 hours on weekends. 
Museums, shopping, sporting events, restauronts, cross country skiing in the Dunes all within eosy reoc1:j. aboard NICTD's South Shore Line. 
Worried about snow? Don't be! Leove your cor at honic·. Transpo buses serve the Airport every l /2 hour on week days and every hour on weekends. 
For schedules and fares call: South Shore Line at: l-800-356-2079 Transpo at: 233-2131 

MRA 

traMJ)DNORTHlRH IHOIAHA <OMMUHR IRANIPORIATIOH DISTRICT 
Last year, Notre Dame failed to qualify with a fourth place finish. This year, behind the leadership of senior team captain John Coyle, the Irish will foot the line with best in the nation to determine the best in collegiate cross country. 
"For these fellas it's their shot at winning a national championship. It's their bowl game. It's their final four. This meet validates the quality of the program," said coach Joe Piane. 
But while collegiate bowl games in football do not necessarily determine a champion, this meet does. This year the two favorites for the top spot are Arkansas and Wisconsin, ranked 
,--:J:.::o:.:.:h:.:.:n....:C::::o:..::.y.:;le;;.;,.___________...,.:~~~~~~~~respectively. While 
Notre Dame's chances of a national championship are slim, the thought can not be ruled out. Two years ago, the Irish came into the NCAA Meet as unknowns and finished third. 
"This is as good as any team we've had in the last decade," said Coach Piane. 
Under Piane the Irish have placed in the top ten three times in the past five years. 
This race will also feature the battle for the individual title and thus answer the question: who is the greatest collegiate runner in the nation. 
The top American contender is Indiana runner and 1992 Olympian Bob Kennedy. This meet also determines all 
Coach Wood. "We know that we need to work on timing and position. This will help us re­duce turnovers. The chips are all there for a great season, we just have to put them together." 
Saint Mary's experienced a very short practice season. Wood, in his 38th season as a basketball coach, knows that it takes time to develop a good rhythm. 
"Our younger players will be with us in a few more weeks," he affirmed. 
Against the UC, the Belles could have easily pulled out the win. But two late free throws gave UC the win. 
In addition, the UC stayed with a full court press the en­tire game. This hurt the Belles American status. The top 25 individual finishers are named all-Americans. 
The Irish hope to keep their all­American streak alive. Notre Dame has had at least one harrier achieve the elite status in each of the last five years, totalling seven honorees since 1987. Coyle and Mike McWilliams are strong contenders this year. 
McWilliams summed it up best when he explained what the NCAA Championships mean to him, "It's pride. Stepping on the line toe to toe with the greatest runners in the nation. There's so much talent on that line that in this meet you figure out exactly how good you are." 
Saint Mary's basketball drops two over weekend 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp SMC forward Jenni Taubenhein dribbles the ball in a game last season. 
., Practically Speaking..... 
.,• 
.,• 
•
?
.,
.,• 
.,• 
.,• 
.,• 
?• 
• JOHH H. GORDOH, E~D
?•
., 
.,• • *Consultant NOVA (PBS}
* Consultant 20/20(ABC}
?• 
* Consultant, Kenneciy(NBC)?• * Advisor, Calilornia State Archives
?•
? ., • • Monday, November 23
., .,• • 7p.m. Jr.~a 
?
• Carroll Hall 
BOARD!
?•
? .
k: 
.; $1 donation at the door, proceeds will go 
• to the St. Jude Athletic Association 
and caused 31 turnovers. 
"We didn't think ahead," stated co-captain Kim Holmes. "We were under pressure and didn't take control of the situa­tion." 
Furthermore, the Belles front line got into foul trouble and thus could not play as aggres­sive defensively. 
"That easily effects the whole team," stated Coach Wood. "They're our size and we need to keep them in there." 
Snyder and the team are convinced that this was a good experience. 
"We know exactly what to work on and we're ready for the next game. They were good competition, we learned a lot and I believe we had fun." 

Monday, November 23, 1992
The Observer 
page 14 
effort was good but we made a
.. Men's hoop opens with USA Verich Hoops lot of freshman-type mistakes." 
Bowen led all scores with 27 
Observer Staff Report 
The success of the Notre Dame men's basketball team this season depends on how fast they mature. 
Sophomore Billy Taylor is the team's only returning starter, while classmate Lamarr Justice and juniors Brooks Boyer and Joe Ross will be seeing the first extended action of their ca­reers. 
Senior Monty Williams, a key figure on the 1989-90 team, re­turns to fill out the starting lineup, but the jury is still out on whether he can reach his potential after sitting out the last two seasons with a heart condition. 
With that many question marks, expectations are not high for the Irish as they open the 1992-93 season tonight with an exhibition game against USA Verich. 
"We are using these two ex­hibition games (tonight and next Monday against the Aus­tralian National Team) to get a handle on our conditioning," Irish coach John McLeod said, but he insists his team is ready to show that they are better than people expect them to be. "I see a determination to prove they can be better than what's expected of them." 
-
Defense will be a key for the Irish, and McLeod is not happy with what he has seen in prac­tice. 
"I have major concerns about our defense," he said. "We're a long, long way from where we need to be." 
One player who can remedy that situation is 6-8 sophomore Malik Russell, who has matured a lot during the off-season. He 
has the versatility to play several positions, and his 
CLASSES THAT WILL REOPEN AT :Z:OO P.M. 1lL23L92 
ACCT 232 12 1799 ACCT 232 13 0120 ACCT 479 01 3081 AFAM 260 01 4617 AFAM 492 01 4S87 BA 230 02 OS34 ENOL 300B 01 4222 FIN 360 07 4418 GOVT 407 01 1390 GOVT 433 01 4258 HIST 225 01 071S HIST 440A 01 4310 MARK 231 02 1170 PHIL 233 01 4333 PHIL 241 01 1472 PHIL 242 02 4336 ROSP 232 01 4380 soc 232 01 0280 soc 260 01 2167 soc 300 01 1547 soc 436 01 4565 THEO 229 01 4400 
CLOSED SECTIONS AS OF 11:00 A.M. 1lL23L92 
ACCT 231 01 0938 ACCT 231 02 1284 ACCT 232 02 3268 ACCT 232 03 2862 ACCT 232 05 2671 ACCT 232 12 1799 ACCT 232 13 0120 ACCT 371 01 2262 ACCT 372 05 1322 ACCT 380 03 1203 ACCT 475 02 4417 ACCT 477 01 0754 ACCT 479 01 3081 ACCT 480 02 2994 
.. 
AERO 441L 01 2859 AFAM 204 01 469S AFAM 260 01 4617 AFAM 329 01 359S AFAM 389 01 393S AFAM 390B 01 4699 AFAM 391 01 3439 AFAM 419Z 01 4698 AFAM 420 01 4620 AFAM 4S4 01 3536 AFAM 479 01 4084 AFAM 492 01 4587 AL 212 23 2445 AMST 334 01 0316 AMST 391 01 3440 
~ 
AMST 493 01 4161 ANTH 329 01 4164 ANTH 329 02 416S ANTH 361 01 3807 ANTH 386 01 4686 ANTH 389 01 3934 
J 
ANTH 454 01 3454 
• 
tenacity on defense could make said. "(He) has the ability to him an important element of defend at three or four posi­the Irish attack. tions. He has made big strides "Malik's attitude is much and will play a lot." better, he seems to have a bet-The regular season opens on ter handle on himself," McLeod December 4 at Loyola. 

The Rock 
Sophomore Malik Russell will be a key figure tor coach John Mcleod and Notre Dame this season. 

Happy 21st 
Marc! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Larry, Michele, Chris and Andrew 
ARCH  S98B  01  0420  EDUC  201L  OS  840S  GOVT  343T  
ARCH  S98F  01  0269  EE  242L  02  0162  GOVT  404  
ARHI  169  01  31SO  EE  242L  04  1929  GOVT  407  
ARHI  462  01  3647  EE  4980  01  4478  GOVT  433  
ARHI  496  01  36S4  ENOL  201A  01  4214  GSC  341  
ARST  134S  01  0146  ENOL  201B  01  421S  GSC  424  
ARST  ISOK  01  1154  ENOL  204  01  4063  GSC  493F  
ARST  212S  01  2356  ENOL  300B  01  4222  GSC  498  
ARST  232S  01  2361  ENOL  300C  01  4223  HIST  116T  
ARST  242S  01  1250  ENOL  301  01  0648  HIST  116T  
ARST  246S  01  3464  ENOL  301C  01  0966  HIST  225  
ARST  292S  01  3346  ENOL  311  01  0623  HIST  309  
ARST  326S  01  OS09  ENOL  312  01  0808  HIST  309A  
BA  230  01  0932  ENOL  315F  01  4710  HIST  311A  
BA  230  02  OS34  ENOL  316F  01  4124  HIST  327  
BA  230  06  1328  ENOL  317C  01  3726  HIST  327A  
BA  362  01  2693  ENOL  319B  01  4224  HIST  331A  
BA  363  04  OS49  ENOL  319E  01  4216  HIST  348A  
BA  391  01  0393  ENOL  325  01  1021  HIST  3S7A  
BA  391  02  1296  ENOL  340  01  1S31  HIST  3S9  
BA  391  03  1690  ENOL  379C  01  4225  HIST  3S9A  
BA  464  01  3111  ENOL  384A  01  3764  HIST  36SA  
BA  490  01  0677  ENOL  390B  01  4226  HIST  391  
BA  490  03  1994  ENOL  412C  01  4227  HIST  396  
BA  490  04  2439  ENOL  413E  01  3770  HIST  399  
BIOS  344L  02  1305  ENOL  414B  01  4713  HIST  403  
BIOS  407L  01  0375  ENOL  4161  01  4228  HIST  403A  
BIOS  407L  02  2718  ENOL  416J  01  4634  HIST  410A  
BIOS  411L  01  2234  ENOL  417  01  4245  HIST  41SA  
BIOS  411L  03  2308  ENOL  422  01  1022  HIST  440A  
BIOS  412L  01  2613  ENOL  426F  01  4230  HIST  4S4  
BIOS  412L  02  OS87  ENOL  433B  01  3784  HIST  4S4A  
CAPP  253  01  OS31  ENOL  440  01  4233  HIST  460  
CAPP  316  01  2763  ENOL  4SSB  01  4234  HIST  460A  
CAPP  361  01  1683  ENOL  461C  01  4236  HIST  699  
CAPP  452  01  3371  ENOL  465  01  2096  liPS  493  
CE  356  01  0589  ENOL  493F  01  4241  liPS  507  
CHEM  118L  07  2280  ENOL  513B  01  4220  liPS  673  
CHEM  202  01  1666  ENOL  S19F  01  4246  LAW  60S  
CHEM  224L  02  1080  ENOL  S22A  01  4218  LAW  631F  
CHEM  334L  01  0492  FIN  231  02  2447  LAW  676A  
CHEM  334L  02  1556  FIN  231  04  1174  LAW  68S  
CLAS  423  01  372S  FIN  231  10  3091  LAW  69S  
COTH  204  01  3503  FIN  360  05  3250  LAW  69S  
COTH  204  02  4191  FIN  360  07  4418  LAW  69S  
COTH  20S  01  3S05  FIN  361  02  0824  LAW  69S  
COTH  20S  02  4126  FIN  361  03  2786  LAW  69S  
COTH  211  01  4192  FIN  361  07  3096  LAW  695  
COTH  413  01  1014  FIN  370  03  0840  LLRO  S33  
COTH  43S  01  4196  FIN  370  04  3071  MARK  231  
COTH  436  01  4197  FIN  470  01  0790  MARK  231  
COTH  440  01  4696  FIN  475  01  2739  MARK  231  
CSE  221L  01  4467  FIN  476  01  3407  MARK  374  
CSE  233  01  4474  FIN  478  01  1884  MARK  374  
CSE  411  01  4471  GE  364  01  4148  MARK  381  
ECON  22S  04  4205  GE  564  01  4149  MARK  492  
ECON  421  01  OS38  GEOS  242  01  1834  MARK  49S  
ECON  430  01  1383  GEOS  362  01  4465  MATH 324  
ECON  434  01  3597  GOVT  316F  01  4S78  MATH  336  
ECON  450  01  3745  GOVT  340  02  1620  MBA  600  
ECON  456  01  4210  GOVT  341  01  3409  MBA  606  
ECON  487  01  4779  GOVT  342  01  1072  MBA  607  
ECON  498  01  1768  GOVT  342T  03  1194  MBA  624  
EDUC  201L  01  8401  GOVT  342T  04  0970  MBA  625  
EDUC  201L  04  8404  GOVT  343T  04  2197  MBA  627  

con tinued from page 16 
the left side of the hoop for the final basket in regulation. 
Notre Dame scored first in both overtimes but were coun­tered by a strong Bratislava at­tack which matched scores with the Irish until it reeled off ten unanswered points in the final overtime. 
"Letitia was very strong inside, but the turnovers and missed free throws were the difference," said McGraw. "Our 
points, and also had a game-high 17 rebounds. Washington also added eleven in the losing effort. The Czechoslovakian team was led by Renata Janusova's 21. 
Notre Dame shot under forty-percent from the floor while Bratislava made over forty-five percent of their shots, including 21 of 23 from the free throw line. 
Notre Dame begins regular season play December 1 at Marquette. 

KRAZE 
Now Open at Ironwood Plaza in South Bend Next to Martin's Supermarket 
Mon-Sat 9 a.m.-9 p.m. 
All Iten1s $1 or Less 
Sunday 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 

OS  2066  MBA  637  01  4431  RLST  201  10  9S10  
01  0981  MGT  240  02  0097  RLST  201  14  9SI4  
01  1390  MGT  240  03  2813  RLST  201  16  9SI6  
01  42S8  MGT  499  01  442S  RLST  201  18  9SI8  
01  0277  MI  309  01  3S34  RLST  213  20  9S20  
01  4734  MI  403  01  4S94  RLST  213  22  9S22  
01  4700  MI  433  01  3785  RLST  240  24  9S24  
01  1240  MI  647  01  4331  RLST  240  26  9526  
03  3246  MSA  S47  01  1815  RLST  2S1  32  9S32  
OS  0728  MSCI  212  02  1661  RLST  261  34  9S34  
01  071S  MSE  225  01  1839  RLST  261  36  9S36  
01  3S3S  MUS  220  01  3037  RLST  306  38  9538  
01  4299  MUS  220  02  0899  RLST  351  42  9S42  
01  4301  MUS  220  03  3252  RLST  370  44  9S44  
01  2460  MUS  220  04  4138  ROFR  499  01  0390  
01  4302  MUS  222  01  13S7  ROIT  106  01  2236  
01  4287  MUS  22S  01  0278  ROSP  103  04  1458  
01  39S1  MUS  226  01  0032  ROSP  103  OS  0152  
01  4288  NSCI  412  01  3192  ROSP  231  01  10S2  
01  4306  PHIL  201  03  2S34  ROSP  231  04  2222  
01  4307  PHIL  201  04  1491  ROSP  232  01  4380  
01  4290  PHIL  201  06  1990  ROSP  236  01  4382  
01  1938  PHIL  201  07  3098  ROSP  329  01  2919  
01  1427  PHIL  203  01  1131  ROSP  432  01  4383  
01  33S6  PHIL  221  01  4332  ROSP  494  01  3287  
01  4289  PHIL  233  01  4333  ROSP  499  01  1701  
01  4291  PHIL  235  01  4335  RU  376  01  41SO  
01  4293  PHIL  239  01  1464  soc  220  01  2031  
01  4308  PHIL  241  01  1472  soc  232  01  0280  
01  4310  PHIL  241  02  2725  soc  234  01  35S6  
01  3S37  PHIL  242  01  0717  soc  242  02  OS62  
01  4311  PHIL  242  02  4336  soc  260  01  2167  
01  102S  PHIL  242  03  4337  soc  300  01  1547  
01  4312  PHIL  244  01  0022  soc  302  01  4391  
01  1122  PHIL  245  01  3548  soc  379  01  4395  
01  4S62  PHIL  247  01  4338  soc  421  01  3308  
01  3422  PHIL  248  01  4030  soc  424  01  4729  
01  4S91  PHIL  2SO  01  3S51  soc  430  01  4S66  
01  2364  PHIL  257  01  4031  soc  436  01  4565  
01  0555  PHIL  261  01  2765  STY  250  01  4681  
01  2673  PHIL  261  04  4725  THEO  229  01  4400  
01  0307  PHIL  264  01  2181  THEO  23S  01  17S5  
01  1449  PHIL  464  01  4348  THEO  23S  02  2106  
02  1668  PHYS  222L  02  2582  THEO  242  01  1216  
03  14S9  PHYS  222L  04  IS24  THEO  243  01  1513  
04  1675  PHYS  222L  05  2730  THEO  243  02  4401  
05  1831  PHYS  SIOL  01  4528  THEO  24S  01  2070  
06  3201  PLS  382  03  1910  THEO  249  01  0383  
01  4375  PSY  211A  01  2036  THEO  250  01  0066  
01  2865  PSY  341  02  1733  THEO  2S2  01  0783  
02  1170  PSY  341T  02  1727  THEO  2S4  01  1118  
03  0838  PSY  342  01  0947  THEO  262  01  0786  
01  OS33  PSY  342  03  2898  THEO  263  01  4402  
02  0650  PSY  342L  01  1981  THEO  265  01  0214  
01  1722  PSY  342L  03  3163  THEO  268  01  440S  
01  3544  PSY  357  01  0008  THEO  281  01  3589  
01  3828  PSY  37S  01  4360  THEO  286  01  2148  
01  328S  PSY  403  01  4362  THEO  290  01  4406  
02  3148  PSY  404  01  4363  THEO  396  01  1S19  
01  0080  PSY  40S  01  4364  THEO  400  01  4746  
01  4428  PSY  441  01  .  4365  THEO  S28  01  4416  
01  4671  PSY  452  01  , 1130  THTR  276  53  97S3  
01  0876  PSY  456  01  3044  THTR  377  58  97S8  
01  3406  PSY  585  01  4370  THTR  410  59  9759  
01  0290  RLST  201  08  9508  



-
Today 

Monday, November 23, 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S ••page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

Happy Thanksgiving!!! 
from the Student Union Board 
Look forward to more S.U.B. events in December 

BILL WATTERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
~0\l j\JST I'LM ON T~E AAILRof\D 
\T WO\JLO 

I ! @ 
H'\ 'S\JRE 
!{ 
i c 
l 
_l
:...!L___ l.!!"~·lJ!.....__________..,::.=::.:.....J .) 
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  30 Map within a  57 More boring  
1 "-meyour ears" 5 Stirring stories 10 Raced 14 Hodgepodge 15 Straighten 16 ·-Shanter" 17 Spanish town  map 33 Uses a millstone 35 Weep and wail 37 Thickness 38 Defeat 39Aplomb 41 Bucket  61 "Omnia vincit " 62 Island home of Columbus: c. 1479 64 Humdinger 65 Suffix with parliament 66 Talking bird  
where Columbus  42 Psychic in its.  67 Epochs  
died: 1506  43 Deck unit  • 68 Valuable fur  
19 Actor from  44 Mock  69 Fly high  
Chicago  46 Come to  
20 G.O.P. symbol 21 In abundance  48 Spacecraft part, for short  DOWN  
23 Pillboxes  so Hermit  1 Mezzo-soprano  
24 Hereditary  51 Sister's  Shirley- 
factors  daughter, e.g.  2 Israeli airline  
25 Biblical land of  53 Few: Comb.  3 Egypt's lifeline  
gold  form  4 Miami eleven  
28 Shell implement  55-d'hotel  5 Co-Nobelist for  
Peace:1978  
6 Noted Cuban  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  ballerina  
7Golden  
&Cuckoo  
9 Marsh plant  26 Thackeray's  41 Playbills  55 Buck or bull  
10 "-Kisses,"  forte  43 "Mermaids"  56 Long Asian river  
1968 film  27 Where the  star: 1990  57 Bit; fragment  
11 Whence Columbus sailed: Aug. 3, 1492  Santa Maria was wrecked: 1492 29Tolerate  45 Inventor Howe 47 Lemon tree, e.g. 49 Human being  58-Mountains, in ECalif. 59 Sicilian menace 60 Niagara sound  
31 Slur over  52 "N'est--?"  63Afeast­ 
13 Completed  32 Tippecanoe's  54 Sierra- famine  
18 Drive- associate  
bargain 22 Blue dye 24Mardi­25 Peep-show fan  34 Hot tub 36 Marry 40 Wreath on a knight's helmet  Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute).  



"One good thing about living in this age­all the caves are brand new." 

DOMINO'S DAILY DEAL 
Today's Soecial: 
2 Medium Pepperoni Pizzas 
Valid at participating smres only. Not valid with any 
Call Now 
other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our
ND 271,0300 
drivers carry less than $20. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. © 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc.
SMC 289,0033 
MENU Notre Dame Saint Mary's 

Southern Bar Beef Club Veal Cutlets Fried Clams Grilled Turkey and Corned 
Noodles Pasta Primavera Mozarella 

LECTURES Monday 

7 p.m. "Our Lady of LaSalette," Erwin J. Lovas, member o1 the Deanery Council of Catholic Men, and Dolores Tantoco· Stauder. Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. 7 p.m. "Focus on Kennedy Assassinations," John Gordon. Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Student Activities, Saint Mary's College. 
7:30 p.m. "New Directions in Palestinian Thinking: Their Implications for the Peace Process," Emile Sahliyeh, North Texas State UniverSity. Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 8 p.m. "Revising the Revisions on Verdi's Opera La Forza de Destino," Roger Parker, Cornell University. Room 124, Crowley Hall of Music. Sponsored by the Music Department. 
CAMPUS Monday 

7 p.m. Film, "God's Stepchildren." Annenberg Auditorium. 9 p.m. Film, "Videodrome." Annenberg Auditorium. 

~ 
------~~---­
-
Sports 
page 16 
JONATHON JENSEN 
Game Point 

3,178 fans at the end of Notre 
1-----N-o-tr_e__D_a_m_e-'s____,_ Dame's first hockey win of the 
hopes Call for di.Vt'ne intervention 
Every Saturday, like thousands of other fans of Irish football. I stoop to rooting for teams such as Houston, Mississippi State, and Texas Tech, in the hopes that the Irish can move up one or two spots in those twisted, illogical things we call the polls. 
• I know it's not just me, you know who you are. For a couple of hours you sit on the edge of your seat, sweating over each ABC or ESPN update to see if Clemson is still beating Florida State, or if Arizona leads Miami. Now is the time to turn it up a notch. In case you're not one of the poll watchers, our beloved Irish have now climbed the rung up to become the number five team in the nation, after a bit of divine intervention led John Cooper's Buckeyes to a tie against Michigan and the now-beloved Cougars of Washington State stunned their home-state rival Huskies. As a result of these unforeseeable events, a glimmer of hope has broken through the permanent clouds over South Bend as the Irish are back in the national title race. I can see the discussions in the dining hall already. All that has to happen is second­ranked Alabama, third-ranked Florida State, and fourth-ranked Texas A&M have to falter and we can all sit pool­side in Tempe, Arizona drinking pina coladas, preparing to ther Irish crush the Hurricanes in the Fiesta Bowl. Keep quiet you pessimists, stranger things have happened. In the land of parietals, Touchdown Jesus, and a mandatory two semesters of Theology, the least the Big Guy could do is have a couple of illnesses sweep through some team's athletic dorms. Even without another miracle like Reggie's now-famous "Catch", or some help from The Man, I still think it can happen. Just as my mom asks my step­dad to "program" certain teams to lose if I ask her to, I am now calling for the entire campus to program wins for some upset-minded teams next weekend. Dream about the Auburn Tigers, or War Eagles, or whatever the heck they call themselves steamrolling over 'Barna on Thanksgiving Day. Envelop yourselves with the image of the Texas Longhorns running roughshod over the Aggies on Thursday night. And when you stare blankly at the wall during class, envision Shane Matthews throwing numerous touchdowns against Florida State. Assuming the Irish will do their job over the sub-par Trojans on Saturday night, all the pieces will then_be in place for our dream matchup against Miami on January 1st. 
So, if you haven't already pitched this paper in the recycling bin, I am deploring you to heed my call and program these outcomes. Who knows, maybe with 8,000 minds centered on the exact same thing this weekend we can send shock waves all the way down to Birmingham, Tallahassee, and Austin to set the laws of logic spinning out of whack and send all of us to sunny Arizona. 
INSIDE SPORTS 

Monday, November 23, 1992 
Irish get first win over #1 0 Western Michigan 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA 
Sports Writer 
"Five, Four, Three, Two, One ..... " That was the chant of 
season on Friday night. The crowd, which was the largest at the Joyce Fieldhouse since the program was brought
back to varsity status in 1984, 

Carl Picconato
witnessed Notre Dame's 
see the home team come outshocking 3-2 upset of Western on top."
Michigan University. 
WMU came into the gameThe win, Notre Dame's first ranked number ten in the na­in the Central Collegiate tion and tied for third in theHockey Association, was CCHA. Notre Dame wasdescribed by Irish coach Ric lurking in the wings ready toSchafer as "an important win knock of a national power. 
in an exciting hockey game, 
The Irish opened the
with a good crowd on hand to scoring 6:33 into the game on freshman Jaime Ling's team leading sixth goal of the year. At the time, Notre Dame had a five on three advantage. The goal was assisted by seniors Dave Bankoske and Curtis Janicke. 
A little more than five min­utes later, the Irish increased their lead on sophomore Jeff Hasselman's second goal of the year. Hasselman was just entering the ice on a player exchange when he received the puck and took off for the net. He faked WMU goalie Brian Renfrew to the right and hit the shot into the lower left corner of the net. Senior Eric Gregoire was credited with the assist. 
In the second period, both teams had numerous chances to score, but Notre Dame senior goalie Carl Picconatto turned away 18 shots. Unfortunately, the Irish had two shots hit the pipes in the period. 
WMU finally broke into the scoring column 4:45 into the third period. Sophomore Derek Schooley scored from in front of the net. 
The score remained the same until Bankoske scored with 3:0Y left on a scramble in front of the goal. Freshman Brett Bruininks assisted on Bankoske 's fourth of the year. 
From that point on, WMU 
see WIN/page 14 
Notre Dame volleyball NCAA bound 
By DAN PIER 
Sports Writer 
A simultaneous shout for joy and sigh of relief could be heard from the Notre Dame women's volleyball team at Duquesne Saturday night. The team joyfully celebrated its impending NCAA Tournament berth, relieved that the payoff for their season-long dedication to a dream is finally secure. 
The Irish grabbed the Midwest Collegiate Conference Tournament championship and its accompanying NCAA bid by virtue of their 15-9, 13-15, 15-10, 15-5 final round victory over Loyola of Illinois. The team earned its second straight conference title and second ever trip to the NCAA. 
"There was almost a feeling of relief when we won it," head coach Debbie Brown said of her first-seeded team. "We were very excited, but during the celebration we also felt like, 'Whew, we did it."' 
After dominating the MCC regular season, a lot was expected of Notre Dame, and the Irish disappointed no one in the two-day tournament. Notre Dame disposed of Evansville 15-1, 15-3, 15-2 in Friday night's first round match and topped fourth-seeded Dayton 15-8, 15-1, 16-14 in Saturday's semifinals. 
Continuing her recent strong play, senior middle blocker Jessica Fiebelkorn was named Most Valuable Player for the tournament and earned MCC Player of the Year honors for her regular season exploits. Fiebelkorn was quick to point out that if she and her teammates felt relief, it was not from the pressure of others' expectations. 
"The pressure came from within ourselves," Fiebelkorn said, "because we wanted to win it so bad. Two years ago, none of us would have thought this possible, but we've been shooting for it all year." 
Sophomore outside hitter Christy 

By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team dropped an exhibition game to a touring Czechoslovakia team 85-76 in double overtime Friday night, thanks in part to a strong shooting performance by their opponent, but due mostly to a mistake-filled debut by the Irish. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw's team missed 16 of 31 free throw attempts and committed 32 turnovers, 13 by usually sure-handed guard Kara Leary. 
Despite the mistakes Notre Dame still had an opportunity to win the game when a basket by sophomore forward Letitia Bowen sent the game into overtime on a layup with nine seconds left in regulation, but the Czechoslovakian team out-scored the Irish 25-16 in the two extra periods. 
Bowen's score capped a last minute comeback by the Irish. A trey by Slovan Bratislava guard Renata Gersiova ended Peters joined Fiebelkorn on the all­tournament team and the all-MCC first team. Junior setter Janelle Karlan was also named to the first team, while senior outside hitter Marilyn Cragin earned second team honors. Head coach Debbie Brown was named MCC Coach of the Year. Freshman outside hitter Brett Hensel was listed on the All-Newcomer team. 

All of the personal awards, however, were overshadowed by Notre Dame's 
anticipation of the upcoming NCAA first­round match. The opponent, site, and date of the match will be announced next week. But the players might have to wait even longer for reality to set in. 
"It's so exciting, I don't think all of the ramifications have hit me yet," said senior captain Alicia Turner. "I think when I walk into the gym for the NCAA Tournament, it will hit me. We've accomplished a lot and we're anxious to see if we can go farther." 
Women's basketball falls in exhibition 
a 56-56 tie with 59 seconds remaining. Bowen was fouled on Notre Dame's possession but made only one of the two free throws rewarded after she was fouled on a drive to the right side of the basket. 
With the score at 59-57 Notre Dame forward Coquese Washington committed a foul on Bratislava forward Andrea Duetshova who made one of two free throw attempts. 
Down by three, the Irish again looked to Bowen who again found herself on the charity stripe. After sinking the first shot. the sophomore forward missed the second. But during the mad scramble for the rebound, the ball hit a Bratislava player, giving Notre Dame another opportunity with sixteen seconds remaining. 
After an Irish timeout, and kick violation against the Czechoslovakian team, Bowen took the inbounds pass on 
see HOOPS/page 14 



