·-· ----~-­
--------------------------------, 
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 13 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Senior· interrupts studies to join Clinton campaign 
By MONICA YANT Editor-in-Chief 
As the fall presidential cam­paign heads into home stretch, Notre Dame senior Ashanti Butler has what pundits might call an inside track to the Democrats' strategy of attract­ing youthful voters: Start by attracting youthful workers. 
"I think people our age don't really relate to George Bush," Butler said in a telephone in­terview Tuesday from Clin­ton/Gore '92 campaign head­quarters in Little Rock, Ark. 
"(Bill Clinton) is a product of the era of our parents, not our grandparents. A lot of the things that he is concerned with are things that we are go­ing to be facing after gradua­tion." 
The government major has a good reason for such polished Clintonspeak: She is a full-time staffer at in Little Rock -a feat even Butler admits is unusual for a college student on a leave of absence. 
But thanks to good fortune and contacts made during an internship with the Democratic National Committee, the Indi­anapolis native netted an offer last January she simply couldn't refuse. 
"(Clinton) has a real plan for getting America back on track," Butler said of the Arkansas governor's economic and education proposals. "I remember being at Notre Dame and hearing about people who couldn't come back for financial reasons. That's ridiculous." 
Other young voters must share her view: According to Assistant Press Secretary Ethan Zindler, at least 200 of the more than 350 staffers in the 

• 
Gore in Texas/ page 5 

• 
Politic roundup I page 5 

• 
Lawyer bashing I page 5 


Little Rock office are under 25 years old. 
Butler has worn many hats in the campaign. She's focused voter outreach efforts at college students and the elderly and tracked Clinton delegates at the July Democratic Convention, where her responsibilities at the convention included every­thing from orchestrating sign­waving to reminding the mem­bers of five state delegations of voting sessions. 
Butler now works primarily in surrogate scheduling. Put simply, if neither Bill or Hillary Clinton, AI or Tipper Gore is available for a campaign ap­pearance in the South, it is But­ler's task to find an appropriate replacement among key Democrats at the local, state or national level. Past surrogates include party Chairman Ron Brown, Boston Mayor Ray Flynn and Indiana Governor Evan Bayh. 
In mid-October, Butler will again switch gears, heading back to the states for outreach activities that will "make sure that all the voters know that Nov. 3 is the day to vote for Bill Clinton." 
The decision to put her stud­ies on hold for the campaign was not an easy one, Butler admits. 
see INTERRUPT I page 4 
Michelangelo virusallac[Gs> NO Law schqgl ~qiJlpJ..IIer 
By JOHN CONNORTON •-• was thatthe taw $(ihool had -·­News Writer been depending on a virns ...... package d¢veloped in .t9S6~7••·-·-····•·•· 


~?.:\~!~;a(~ 'i,i•Viht[~,,
School computer center last ·. · 
Friday night by a 3law ·· · . Vtru$~$ wod{i by \ 
student. · ···· -~es_tr_o • • .·._.___ the • · . ·_.·.-...·.
· · ··· ___ }'UJ,___ g_ _____ru_e a.J_.l_•.-..•·oc_· • o_n_
____ a_ti_
Krista MaeLmnari, alaw 
. 
student at Notre Dame. dis~ ... 
covered the Virus when she · tried a disk..she bad bee.ri.. using at the.LlliW Sch®lunJk ·computer· at..tmr fat})er~s Jaw .. _. office where if was detect&L 
MacLennari··and. het hus~··· / band TQm, PersollaF£9m--········-·········-··-··-·······-···· ·· i · 
pUMf cQQt9l9tH9~ .nf.tfl)~i ......,.... I,? 
~Notr~o;4e~~·~rdu!:ot:#u;:~ .:::::: 
u e arne gra u~ 9; ~Ill+ mediately notified Jeff Mbl';. gan,-· .the·.•.·. computer?consultant at the> Law School. 

Altho-ugh·_· ··-_ ._·M_·_-i·c-_.he-1-a_•n·_·_·_·g•_··•e··l_·_·.o·._· · ~Y. ¥\cm.,~langel(J •· · ··
__-·· •·-t~rro~i.z~.d. · · 
•••····· wh~lf t;(irnP'4t~t #~p~rts••·· 
was· eliminated from the deterp;tb:uid, tha.t the virus· Law School, any disk that i\V?uld act~vate 011 ~ar~ 6, .•..•••-•. 

~~inr:!f -.ts~•·~~~:~~nfl~t~: .... -········~~t~t~~~~h1ias~1•~~t~~kl~;-•••·•••••·····
carrying the virus._ ·. __· · h!l.VQC o~.·-_ the• world7s i "Basicallyt~t:!•·-·ptq~f~~ ~mp~Wrsy&t~ffi~.> ·· ·-··· · 


The Observer/Pat McHugh 

Giving the gift of flowers 

Seniors Ilona Carlos and Bryan Krayer purchase flowers and balloons at Irish Gardens, located in the basement of LaFortune Student Center, which opened Monday. 

Business school sponsors campaign discussion 
Special to The Observer 
Dennis Moore, director of public relations, confirmed that Democratic presidential candi­date Governor Bill Clinton will speak in Stepan Center on Fri­day. 
Clinton campaign officials said the candidate will speak at 1 p.m. 
Although the presidential campaign will take center stage Friday, the College of Business Administration's advisory council is also sponsoring a speech by political commenta­tor Mark Shields and a panel discussion focusing on the campaign. 
Shields will speak on "The Making of a President: 1992" at 

1:30 p.m. in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Edu­cation (CCE), and will report­edly give a broadcast from South Bend for the MacNeill­Lehrer Hour later in the day. 
"The American Political Pro­cess: Is This Any Way. to Run an Election?" will feature a panel of four Notre Dame faculty members in a round-table presentation at 10:15 a.m. in the CCE auditorium. Partici­pants will include: Robert Schmuhl, chair of American studies; Douglas Kmiec, profes­sor of law; Thomas Morris, professor of philosophy; and Barry Keating, chair and Jones professor of finance and busi­ness economics. 
Moderated by James O'Rourke, associate professor of management at Notre Dame, the panel will analyze the elec­toral process, the economy and changes in the American politi­cal landscape in the 1990s. The discussion will be videotaped for cable broadcast at a later date. 
A 1959 graduate of Notre 
· Dame, Shields is a Washington Po.st columnist and -along with Pat Buchanan, Robert No­vak and AI Hunt -a member of CNN's "Capital Gang." He is the author of "On the Campaign Trail," and has pro­vided convention and election coverage for CBS and NBC. 


Lopez: peace research faces three perils 
By MICHELLE CROUCH News Writer 
"Teaching seriously and frankly that which is terrible and that which is beautiful" ought to be the emphasis in international peace studies, ac­cording to George Lopez, direc­tor of Notre Dame's Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
In Tuesday's lecture, "Pericles and the Perils of Peace Studies," Lopez set the agenda for the institute for the coming year. 
He explained that peace re­search today faces three perils: 
•First, 
many peace re­searchers focus too heavily on conflict management, or war. 

•The 
second peril is "brought about by the way that money corrupts." According to Lopez, "our research and teaching gravitates to where the money is as opposed to where some believe the priorities ought to be." 

•The 
third peril is "the dy­namic state of change in the world that we witness daily." 


Lopez proposed overcoming these perils by teaching stu­dents of peace studies both the terrible and the beautiful in the tension between violence and peace today. 
He quoted Thucydides who said, "Those who are truly courageous are those who know what is terrible in life and what is beautiful and recogniz­ing these can march out and meet what is to come." 
Lopez then specified some of the "terrible" facts in peace studies. 
"More people on a per capita basis died within their own boundaries at the hands of their own country people than in wars," Lopez pointed out, "Internal violence has wreaked more havoc on peace than the institute of war." 
He emphasized the need to find out more about the causes and conditions of internal social violence. 
Lopez said that we need to develop "new concepts and models for economic security for states who walk the line of economic peril." 
Lopez also brought up the plight of the environment. "What constitutes ecological se­curity and what are acceptable standards thereof?" Lopez asked, "The same way we have the Geneva Convention to pro­tect prisoners, where are the protocols to protect the inter­national environment?" 
According to Lopez, Notre Dame has one of the few major peace centers in the United States that does not teach an undergraduate or graduate multidiscipline course on the environment. 
Along with explaining the "terrible," Lopez also talked about the "beautiful" in the realm of peace studies. 
"If beauty is in the eye of the beholder," he said, "this be­holder believes that the most serious and significant thing that a peace research program can do is to study principled and practical nonviolent ap­proaches to social change." 
"I think our own niche in this may very well be placed in the ability to look in the 1990s at where the concerns about peace and war may be going," according to Lopez. 
Lopez discussed the large in­volvement of Notre Dame stu­dents in social concerns. How­ever, he expressed disap­pointment that it is isolated to the Center for Social Concerns, the dorms, and other organiza­tions. 
He emphasized "the need to make it connect to what they're learning in class." 
"I think we can come together as faculty and students," Lopez concluded, "examine the terrible and study the beautiful, raise hard questions about how they fit together, and march out and meet what is to come." 

·---------~----------·---­
r-------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 Wednesday, September 9,1992 
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Mostly cloudy and cooler today. High in






Saint Mary's 
the mid 70s. Partly 
sunny and mild 
Wednesday with 


has special 
highs in the mid 70s. 


appeal 
H L

lr--A-=-n_n_e____H..e_r_o_m_a_n---, 

55 44 86 69 70 46 70 57 
Three years ago ifl Ad Representative 
someone would have told me I would be living 
88 70 84 63

in Indiana, I would have thought it was the 
84 68
craziest thing I had ever heard. 
94 74 78 68

When I was looking for a school, I looked all 
82" 68 

over the East coast for the the school with the 81 63 64 55best location, weather, etc. However, people 
82 65

kept telling me about Saint Mary's College in 90 61 72 51
Notre Dame, Indiana. It sounded pretty good 
73 59 89 69 75 64 

except where it is located, especially with me 
being from the South. Anyway, I thought who 
64 48 77 68 75 50 

would want to go to an all women's college by 
choice? 
66 45 

WARM STATIONARY 78 eo
The people who strongly suggested Saint 
79 68

Mary's were my parents, especially my father. 
Pressure 
D.C. 80 68

He continually told me about the strong 
L ~ ~ [TIJ {)
tradition and how important it is to go far away to school. He got my two brothers, who graduated from Notre Dame about twenty-five years ago, to tell me all about life up here. Finally, in the fall of my senior year of high school, my father decided I must experience a 
TODAY AT AGLANCE
Notre Dame football game to see the spirit and 
excitement in the all the people attending.  I  
also remember him continually telling me how the football team goes to the student section  CAMPUS  the St. Joseph county sheriff's department believed was the cyclist, was taken to St. Joseph hospital with a  
after each game, win or lose, and raise their  Mass held for deceased student  fractured pelvis.  The accident is under investigation.  
helmets to the students' support. He figured that I would fall in love with it all and want to  •NOTRE DAME-A funeral mass will be held for Krzysztof Trautman on Sept. 14 at 10 a.m. in the  WORLD  
go to school here. Well, his plan worked, but not exactly as he planned. I toured the campuses and spent the night at Saint Mary's. The atmosphere of the school was incredible. There are so many ways to describe Saint Mary's that I could go on for pages. Everyone I came into contact with was genuine and I truly felt a part of the campus in everyone.  Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Trautman, a 26-year old graduate student from Warsaw, Poland, was found dead Saturday in his room at the Fischer Graduate Residences. University President Father Edward Malloy will preside at the mass. Father Daniel Jenky will give the homily and a choir of graduate students, conducted by Sister Patricia Clark, associate rector of the Fischer Graduate Residences, will provide music for the liturgy. Burial will be in Cedar Grove Cemetery following the  Nelson Mandela calls for removal •BISHO, South Africa -An angry Nelson Mandela called Tuesday for the removal of the black homeland ruler whose troops killed 24 protesters and wounded 196, sparking a major confrontation between black and white leaders. Religious leaders, including Anglican Archbishop Desmond Tutu, tried to persuade the ruler of the Ciskei homeland to hold a referendum on  
I felt like I could easily become a crucial part of  mass.  Father John Gerber, graduate school chaplain,  returning the nominally independent territory to South  
the campus. I felt  this way nowhere else I  will preside at the burial service.  Africa. They said the ruler, Brig. Gen. Oupa Gqozo,  
visited.  It  was a wonderful sense of security  refused.  Earlier, Tutu and other church leaders went to  
and a place I could easily make home.  Saint Ma~'s student injured  the field where the killings took place, kneeling and  
Then I faced ridicule from family and friends.  praying between police armored vehicles. Hundreds of  
My oldest brother, a graduate, stressed to me  ANC members huddled around campfires in  an  
that Saint Mary's was the place for me because  overnight vigil at the site.  
Notre Dame would be too overwhelming that I  

probably wouldn't make it. That is the reason he thinks I didn't apply, so I'll let him believe 

OF INTEREST
that. Notre Dame is a great university with tons to offer a student, just not the one for me. 
•Junior Career Kick-Off Night will take place from 8 p.m. in room 301, Rockne Memorial. Beginners are Therefore, I didn't apply. Then, of course, I got 
6:30 to 7:30p.m. in the Little Theater tonight. Informa­welcome. Contact head instructor Sean Hurley at 289­comments about living in the middle of a corn 
tion on internships, job search programs and summer 5563. job information will be distributed. The program is
field which turned into jokes about imagines in sponsored by the Junior Board, Counseling and Career •Brian Muller live on WVFI! Listen to WVFI AM 640
Children of the Corn. The two popular 
Development Center and the Alumnae Office. from 7 to 9 p.m. and hear Brian Muller from the bandquestions I received were "Are you gay?" and Brian Live.
"Do you want to be a nun?" To set the record 
•The Arts and Letters Business Society will have
straight, the answer to both questions is NO. 
an organizational meeting tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the •Meet the Firms Night for accounting majors will 
Even today I get puzzled looks, especially at 
Notre Dame Room on the second floor of LaFortune. be from 7 to 9 p.m. in the Monogram Room of the JACC home by those who don't know about Saint 
Student Center The society will discuss opportunities tonight. 
Mary's, when people ask where I go to school. 
for liberal arts majors in the business world. •Pax Christi-ND, the local chapter of the national Then I start to explain. But it is worth it. I 
Catholic peace movement, will meet at 8 p.m. tonight in enjoy having to explain what Saint Mary's is to 
•Engineering Placement Night, sponsored by Ca­the Center for Social Concerns chapel. them, because they see my love and enthusiasm 
reer and Placement Services, begins at 7 p.m. tonight in for Saint Mary's. This way they don't recognize 
the Hesburgh Library auditorium. Representatives from .renors and basses are still needed for the Notre General Mills, NASA and PCCI Environmental Dame-Saint Mary's Collegiate Choir. The choir meets
the name and have to think twice about it. Consulting will be presenting career information. two nights a week in 114 Moreau Hall on the Saint
It is difficult for many to understand why Mary's campus and may be taken for one academicpeople would want to leave Saint Mary's, but I 
•A Big Brothers/Big Sisters orientation meeting credit. Call 284-4632 for more information, or come to ahave to force myself to remember that Saint will be from 7 to 8 p.m. at the Center for Social rehearsal Thursday at 6 p.m. 
Mary's isn't for everyone. I do know it is the Concerns tonight. 
right place for me. Each year I send Christmas 
•Volunteers are needed at the Early Childhood De­

cards home that have my picture on them. This 
•Learn Korean martial arts and practical self­velopment Center on Saint Mary's campus, to play with, year I will be sticking my head out of a field of 
defense with Hong's USA tae kwon do. The class meets read to, and work with children 7 5 minutes per week. corn. 
Mondays from 7 to 8:30p.m., Wednesdays from 6:30 to For more information call 284-4693. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 1919: Most of Boston's 1,500-man police force went on

YESTERDAY'S TRADING September 3 
strike.
Today's Staff 
• In 1948: The People's Democratic Republic of Korea


Production News 

VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
(North Korea) was created.
Peggy Crooks Frank Rivera 

196,784,680 -1.38 to 228.37 

• In 1957: President Dwight Eisenhower signed into law the 
Bryan Nowicki Emily Hage 
S&P COMPOSITE 
first civil rights bill to pass Congress since Reconstruction. 
-2.64 to 414.44


Sports Systems 
• In 1985: President Reagan abandoned his opposition to
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -21.34 to 3,260.59 

Jason Kelly Harry Zemballis 
sanctions against South Africa, ordering implementation of


Viewpoint Accent 

UNCHANGED 
measures against the white-ruled Pretoria government. 

Kelly O'Rourk Jeannie Blasi 
630 

• In 1986: A jury in New York indicted Gennadiy Zakharov, a
GOLD 
+.90 to $342.50 

Soviet U.N. employee, on espionage charges, three days after through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday 
the Soviet Union formally charged U.S. News and World Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
SILVER 
+.08 to $3.711 
Report correspondent Nicholas Daniloff with spying. 
rights are reserved. 

---------------------------------------------------------------. 
Wednesday, September 9, 1992 The Observer page3 
:·. :~~ 
Liam s 20 to ay, but ifs not his FAU LTI 




Happy Birthday! 
Love Sleepin_g Beautyand-the Evil Stepsisters 
WHAT IF YOU 
DON'T GET 
INTO THE 

SCHOOL OF 

YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure. there are other schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and their chancesof being admitted into their first-choice schools. Fact is. noone has helped students score higher! 
1717 E. South Bend Avenue 
South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 
t 

Buy a piece of Guatemala 
Lee Torrence sells Guatemalan imports in the Sorin Room of LaFortune Student Center. The sale is always popular with students. 

GSU looks to improved school year 
By GERALDINE HAMILTON News Writer 
The Graduate Student Union (GSU) is looking forward to im­proving the graduate school's activities and integrating in new programs during the 1992-93 school year, said GSU president, Mike Kelly. 
Last week, the GSU started off the year by having orientation for the first year graduate stu­dents, said Kelly. 
Other programs that have been GSU issues in past years are the effort by members to make more travel grant money available, and the social func­tions that the graduate school sponsors annually, he said. 
A new program that the GSU is working on is a system where minority and female graduate students would be mentors for undergraduate students. 
The GSU "is always looking for things to improve," said Kelly. "The mentor program is a very good idea." 

A needed improvement that the GSU is fighting for is better insurance coverage by the uni­versity, he said. 
In addition, the GSU, along with university employees, is working towards child care fa­cilities for graduate student use on the Notre Dame campus, said Kelly. 
Right now the only child care center is on the Saint Mary's campus and "everyone knows there is a need for additional facilities," he said. 
Kelly said that the university is cooperating and that he is pleased with the progress that the GSU has made. 
"Most of our (GSU's) man­power right now is tied up in the day care and insurance projects," he said. 
One issue that Kelly was very concerned about relating to the graduate student body was that counseling services are avail­able for those in need of it. This special concern was due to the death of graduate student, Krzysztof Trautman. 
Graduate and undergraduate student relations are on very stable terms, said Kelly. 
"We (graduate students} all knew when we entered gradu­ate school we'd be working with undergrads," he said. "We certainly came here looking forward to do so. We were all undergraduates once." 
The programs and issues that the GSU is working on will "directly or indirectly affect the undergrads. Any issue, whether it be better stipends or child care, will increase the caliber of graduate students to choose from," said Kelly. 
The fears of the university turning into primarily a re­search institute are unwar­ranted, he said. 
"The research program is not a bad thing to undergraduates," he said. "It will help the undergraduate program by giv­ing the students increased ac­cess to better resources." 

HPC discusses creation of rape support group 
By JOE MONAHAN News Writer 
The Hall Presidents' Council discussed the creation of a sup­port group for rape survivors which will be offered by the Sex Offense Services in conjunction with C.A.R.E. (Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination}. 
Open to all female under­graduate and graduate students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and is completely confidential. 

Information is available by calling 234-0061 ext. 1308. 
Weekend Wheels, the HPC shuttle campus program, will begin operations this Friday night from midnight until 2:30 a.m., according to the HPC. Nightly pickup schedules will be posted in dorms or people can call the F-R-E-D line. 
Irish Gardens expressed in­terest in coordinating flower sales with dorm dance ticket sales to help alleviate the prob-
Ill 
ALUMNI 
SENIOR 




!CLUB 
lem of lines in LaFortune Stu­dent Center. 
In other business, Dr. Richard Keeling, noted AIDS lecturer, will be speaking on Sept. 16 at Saint Mary's. 
A representative from Papa John's addressed the council about working more closely with campus dorms this year in handling special orders and mentioned that special large­order rates were available to the dorms. 


KARAOKE 
Wednesday night! 
9--2 

The place to be for the "Class of '93" 
must be 21

page4 The Observer Wednesday, September 9, 1992 


Two U.N. peacekeepers killed Magellan maps Venus; 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­wounded since June. Also, four the parliament set up by rebel­
govina (AP) -Heavy machine Italian airmen were killed when lious Bosnian Serbs, told The prepared for lower orbit 
gun fire blasted a U.N. convoy arriving from Serbia late Tues­day, killing two French peace­keepers and wounding two others, U.N. officials said. 
The attack on the convoy from Belgrade occurred near the airport, where a vital airlift of humanitarian aid was sus­pended after an Italian aid plane was downed Thursday. Clashes have raged for days around the airstrip. 
U.N. 
forces have increasingly come under fire from warring factions, and the latest incident could bolster proposals seeking greater protection for peace­keepers and relief flights. 

U.N. 
spokesman Yusuf Khalef said it was not immediately clear who fired on the convoy, but Serb militias and Bosnian government forces have posi­tions near the airport. Two French peacekeepers were slightly wounded in the attack, he said. 


Military officers, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they thought the attack was de­liberate because the gunfire lasted at least five minutes. 
Four U.N. peacekeepers in Bosnia have been killed and 46 officials say their relief plane was shot down. 
Sarajevo is reeling from heavy clashes as government forces have tried to break through lines of Serbian militias encircling the city, where food and other supplies were running low. 
A Serb official said Tuesday that Serb militiamen will have their heavy guns around Sara­jevo under U.N. supervision by Thursday, two days before a deadline set by international mediators. 
U.N. peacekeepers hope that monitoring Serb artillery, tanks and other heavy arms will re­duce the fighting that has bat­tered Bosnia's capital and other besieged cities for months. 
But there was no immediate sign of respite for Sarajevo. The airport is a lifeline for about 380,000 people, and people scavenged streets and hillsides for food and wood. 
U.N. officials said it was un­likely the airlift would resume soon because governments providing planes wanted stronger security guarantees. 
Momcilo Krajisnik, head of Associated Press that the Serbs would beat the Saturday dead­line for monitoring of their big guns. 
"We have made sure that our heavy artillery positions will be ready for'U.N. supervision on Thursday, two days before the deadline," Krajisnik said in a telephone interview. 
The Serbs agreed to the plan last month but so far have not implemented it. 
The European Community, meanwhile, tightened its trade boycott against Yugoslavia on Tuesday with tougher rules on truck traffic through its only two remaining republics, Serbia and Montenegro. 
The boycott is intended to punish Serb-dominated Yu­goslavia for fomenting violence in Bosnia. At least 8,000 people -and perhaps as many as 35,000 -have died since the majority Muslims and Croats voted Feb. 29 for independence over the objection of ethnic Serbs. 
A senior U.N. peacekeeper in Sarajevo had expressed hope that relief flights could resume to Sarajevo on Tuesday. 


Intellectuals urge reform in Iraq 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) -A state-run newspaper on Tues­day ran an appeal urging Iraq open its rigid one-party political system, in an apparent effort to suggest the government of President Saddam Hussein permits dissent. 
The appeal by a group of eight Iraqi intellectuals ­highly unusual under Saddam's tightly controlled regime -was printed in the state paper Al­Jumbouriya and carried by the Iraqi News Agency. 
It ran one day after Saddam's son, Udai, called for greater democracy in an editorial in his Baghdad newspaper, Babel. Both pieces seemed calculated to show Saddam's government is not as repressive as it is por­trayed outside Iraq, but permits citizens to speak their minds. 
The apparent public relations campaign comes as the Bagh­dad government tries to mar­shal public backing for its showdown with the West over Iraqi attacks on Shiite Muslims 

Interrupt 
continued from page 1 
"At first I said no. It just wasn't in my plans," said Butler, who was scheduled to study in London for the spring semester and had just completed a semester in Washington, D.C. in December when the call came. 
But campaign officials per­sisted, flying her to Arkansas to discuss the job opportunities. Their commitment to Clinton's in southern Iraq. known allies of the Iraqi dicta­
In other developments: tor. 
-The head of a U.N. team of "These are stooges and col­chemical weapons experts in laborators who are trying to Iraq cited "very good" cooper­save whatever left of the ation by Baghdad while testing regime's credibility," Saad Jabr, two Iraqi-built plants built to leader of the Iraqi Free Council, destroy mustard gas and nerve told the AP. agents. Previous U.N. weapons Saddam, he said, is "a tyrant inspection teams were blocked who never keeps his promises." or intimidated. Laith Kubba, spokesman for 
In an interview with The As­the National Iraqi Congress, sociated Press, Ron Manley said another opposition group, he might be able to say by called the statement "a clear Saturday when full-scale de­sign of weakness" that will not struction could begin at the lessen the opposition's deter­Muthanna production site, mination to topple the Iraqi about 70 miles north of Bagh­leader. dad. 
PASADENA, Calif. (AP) -The Magellan spacecraft is back in business after a seven-week outage and is making radar pictures of some of the last un­mapped regions on Venus, NASA said Tuesday. 
Magellan will fly into a lower orbit next week so it can mea­sure Venus' gravity to gain clues about the planet's inter­nal structure. 
If the spacecraft continues to work properly through Sunday, it will have mapped 99 percent of Venus' landscape, far more than its official goal of 70 per­cent to 90 percent, said Doug Griffith, project manager at the space agency's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. 
Scientists "are ecstatic," he said. 
One of Magellan's two transmitters broke down in January. The other transmitter was plagued by heat-related "noise" that interfered with its ability to send pictures of Venus back to Earth. 
So NASA turned off the transmitter July 15, when Magellan already had mapped 
97.5 percent of Venus. The 
shutdown was intended to make sure the transmitter would still be able to work when Magellan flew over yet­unmapped regions of Venus' southern hemisphere this month. 
Griffith said mapping re­sumed Thursday after engi­neers raised the transmitter's temperature to a level that minimized "noise" and allowed pictures to be sent to Earth. 
Magellan probably won't be able to get pictures of the final, unmapped 1 percent of Venus' terrain because those areas are "little teensy things here there and everywhere" on the planet's surface, Griffith said. 
Magellan is in an elliptical or­bit that ranges from 162 miles to 5,282 miles above Venus' surface. Griffith said the low end of the orbit will be lowered to 113 miles in altitude on Monday so that the next day Magellan can start making pre­cise measurements of how the planet's gravity varies in differ­ent regions. 
Such variations will help sci­entists understand the struc­ture ofVenus' interior. 
l.'d\'ERSITY OF NOTIH: DA\11 
I\ ILW\ArlO"AI. STlii>Y l'l{oH;It\\1 1\ 
TRINITY COLLEGE DUBLIN, IREI_JANT) 
19'13·9~ \cadcmic Y";"· 
INFORMATION MEETING About A .Junior Year Exprri('nce 
Wednesday, September 9. l<)92 .:t:30P.M. Room 114 O'Shaughness~ 

-Officers on the aircraft car­rier USS Independence said pa­trolling southern Iraq to protect the Shiites has become routine enough to warrant scaling back 
Share the operation, but that it will take a political decision. 
In London, Shiite opposition leaders said the eight Iraqis who signed the statement call­
a Littleing for democratic reform were 
-and her -future convinced Butler to take the plunge. 
When she returns to Notre Dame in January, Butler will be a year behind her classmates. 
HappinessAlthough graduation, law school and a possible career in politics have been postponed because of the campaign, she insists the time was well-spent. 
"This has helped me realize 


Become A Big Brother
exactly what goes on behind the scenes (in politics,)" she said. "It's opened a lot of doors for me. I have no regrets." 

or Big Sister Volunteer 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program 
Orientation Meeting
111 


Tonight, 7:00--8:00 p.m. 
Jerusalem 
Center for Social Concerns
Spting 1993 

INFORMATION MEETING 
Wednesday, September 9, 1992 6:30P.M. 106 O'Shaughnessy 


"Who saw not Jerusalem in its glory has never seen a beautiful city.· Talmud 



United Way 
APPLICATION DEADLINE OCTOI\ER IS. 1992 


Wednesday, September 9, 1992 The Observer page 5 
ELECTION '92 
Clinton focuses on employment market; Bush camp attacks Clinton draft status 
(AP) -Bill Clinton pledged to come clean four years ago While his supporters focused Tuesday to spend $2 billion a when the vice president's ser­on Clinton's draft status, Presi­year to help American manu­vice in the Indiana National dent Bush himself devoted most facturers create more jobs, Guard was under question. of his day to official business in hewing to economic themes as The Bush campaign's political Washington, mixing in a little his Vietnam draft status came director, Mary Matalin, said in a politics along the way. under a three-pronged attack statement that Clinton "says he The president asked Congress from the Republicans. wants to set the record straight, for $7.6 billion in emergency 
Vice President Dan Quayle but this is one draft record that aid for cleanup and rebuilding and others in the Bush camp continues to fly out of in the wake of Hurricane called on Clinton to clear up formation." Andrew. Later, in a speech to what they called unanswered Senate Minority Leader Bob Jewish leaders, he suggested questions about how the Demo­Dole of Kansas, meanwhile, that Saddam Hussein's ouster cratic presidential nominee went to the Senate floor to call from Kuwait might not have avoided serving in Vietnam. on Clinton to release all files, happened had Clinton been 
Quayle, who went through his notices and letters about his president. own press ordeal four years ago draft status, saying the Demo­"Ask yourself where we would over his military record, offered crat's statements "don't add be if we had someone in the no sympathy for Clinton and up." Oval Office who would have said the Arkansas governor Clinton has called recent re­waffled, who would have wa­should "come clean with the ports about his draft status "not vered and wanted to have it American people." worth a hill of beans" and says both ways," said Bush, sound­
"Every day there's a new he has been consistent in his ing his theme that Clinton is question raised, there's a new explanation of how he avoided indecisive and straddles the story, a new angle, and Bill the draft. The Democrat ob­fence on tough issues. Clinton simply has not told all tained a draft deferment by The day after the Labor Day the facts," Quayle said at a agreeing to join ROTC but later start of the fall race found news conference in east Los gave up the deferment and Clinton in Connecticut. sounding Angeles. Quayle said Clinton drew a high lottery number that familiar themes and plans to had given him the same advice was not called. help manufacturers. 
GOP attacks 'crazy' legal system 
WASHINGTON (AP) -It's no of control legal system." National Committee. secret that Americans don't like He painted legal costs as a Bush this week displayed little lawyers. The question is major reason for the country's of the belligerence that whether they dislike them economic problems -driving characterized his acceptance enough to turn lawyer-bashing up prices, inhibiting product speech. He said then that and legal reform into winning development, and costing jobs. Democratic rival Bill Clinton issues for President Bush. Democrats say that argument was supported by "every trial 
The trial lawyer's tasseled won't fly. lawyer who ever wore a tas­loafer, immortalized in Bush's "He's got a long way to go to seled loafer" while he, the convention speech last month, convince very many people that president, would climb into the has succeeded the welfare the central economic problem ring with the lawyers and queen's Cadillac as a Republi­of this country is lawyers. A lot "round one starts tonight." can symbol of what's wrong more of them believe George The Clinton campaignpersonalized, quality service. 
with America. Bush is the central economic weighed in Tuesday with some When you're ready for a 
Bush devoted nearly a third of problem," said strategist Mark post-Labor Day spin. "Georgechange to a more narural his Labor Day kickoff speech to Mellman, who does polling and Bush attacking lawyers is like looking nails call on The what he called "our crazy, out focus groups for the Democratic Arnold Schwarzenegger com­Castle. We're in the 
plaining about violence in the spotlight, for performance, 
movies," said communications director George Stephanopou­precision and elegance. 

los. "Bush's single biggest group of campaign contributors is lawyers and lobbyists." 

The Observer 


news department is holding an 
Surveys show Americans don't particularly like or trust lawyers, and pollsters say they've found the public does 


informational meeting for new reporters. 




The Castle 
make a connection between

Wednesday, Sept. 9 
lawyers and the high costs of

St. Rd. 23 at Ironwood, Suite lA Convenient Parking 
automobile and health insur­


7:30p.m. 
ance.


%7%·8471 
But independent researchers

Foster Room, LaFortune 
have found no basis to the ad­ministration's larger claim that All those interseted in writing for The Observer 
the country's legal system has compromised its competitive­

please attend. For more information, call239-5303. 

The Observer 
ness. 

is now accepting applications 
We !(now you're liungry. We !(now you're a growing 6oy {orgir{}.
for the following paid position: 
We !(now it's a sacrifice! 

Advertisisng Account Executive 
Last yeaJi tfie Wednesday {uncli fast 
The position involves daily interaction with 
resu{tea in a{most $15,000
clients and consumers incorporating all 
forgrass roots farming ana
aspects of advertising and marketing. 
education programs around tfie wor{tf.
Please submit a one-page personal statement or resume to Mike Hobbs by Tuesday, Sept 15. Contact Hobbs at 239-6900 for more information. 


Stacy 
Regular $55 Student Discount ($10 off) $45 

' 
. 
Signs ups: tliis wee/( in 6otli aining fia{[s. Orca[{ 271-7889 6y :friday, 6 p.m. 

~----~------------...,­
Viewpoint 
page 6 

The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant 
Managing Editor John Rock 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Viewpoint Editor ....•........•.... Joe Moody Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor 

... 
Business Manager Richard Riley 
Advertising Manager ••••.•.. Mike Hobbes Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Bookstore employees doing the best they can 
Dear Editor: 
As an employee of the Notre Dame Bookstore, I just wanted to make a comment about the article in the Sept. 2 edition of The Observer relating to the service at the Bookstore as far as students purchasing books. 
I'm from a middle class family background and was taught from day one that you might not have everything in life but you make the best out of what you do have. 
Here at the Bookstore we, as any common person can see, have limited space. 
We do the best we can to ac­comodate the students and give them the best service we can when they return for the Fall Season. 
Sure we can transfer books to other buildings on campus for student pick-up in better venti­
rooms but extra help which means higher expenses which means higher prices for books. 

We try hard to get the best prices to offer the students here at the bookstore. 
My suggestion is to submit a set of blue prints to the Univer­sity and get a bigger bookstore built for students and fellow customers. 
But until then, like I men­tioned, we work as a family here at the bookstore which Brother Conan started from scratch. 
If students come in prepared with a cool shower and clean sweats and deodorant to keep the air smelling sweet, I'm sure we'll survive. 
CharloHe S. Ford Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Sept. 3, 1992 
Wednesday, September_9, 1992 


Coke grant raises questions 
Dear Editor: 
I read with great interest your recent story on a gift of $2 million from the Coca-Cola company to support Latin American Studies at notre Dame. I could not help but wonder if the company has been as generous to the fami­lies of the eight Coca-Cola em­ployees in Guatemala who have been murdered in recent years because of their union activities? 
The Coca-Cola bottling plant, which has operated in Guatemala for about 50 years, was unionized in 197 4. In 1975 a a series of disputes broke out between the workers and the plant's president, a Houston lawyer named John Clinton Trotter. Trotter, who was a close friend of the military thugs who ran the dictatorship of General Lucas Garcia, in­stalled a contingent of coun­terinsurgency soldiers, attack dogs and the Mobile Military Police right in the plant to in­timidate the workers. 
In 1978 the union leaders were threatened by name in a series of death squad lists. In the following years eight of them were murdered or "disappeared." Pedro Quevedo y Quevedo, for example, was shot in the face; Manuel Lopez had his throat slit; Marlon Mendizabal was machine­gunned; and two others were kidnapped in broad daylight by Guatemalan police and never seen again. One worker was even shot right on the grounds of the plant "by mistake" when he borrowed the hat and coat of a man on the lists. The terror worked, and union membership soon plummeted from 500 to 63. 

By 1984 Coca-Cola of Guatemala was in the hands of two businessmen, Anthony Zash and Roberto Mendez y Mendez, who were faced with a union that had been quietly rebuilding its strength. They announced that they were going to close the bottling plant because of "imminent bankruptcy" and offered four leaders a sixty thousand dollar bribe to quietly accept the death of their union. Suspecting that they were being tricked, but unable to prove it, the workers launched an occu­pation of the plant as a last­ditch measure to save their jobs. 
Incredibly, the occupation lasted a year and eventually became internationally known. North America, European and Guatemalan unions and private citizens began to support the workers, especially after it was discovered that the owners had been keeping two sets of books. The set that was made public to try and justify the closing of the plant was fake. The real books showed that the plant was making over a million dollars a year in profits. 
In 1985 the plant reopened under new management , and the workers were finally able to go back to their own homes. 
unionists were never properly investigated, much less prose­cuted, just like the hundred thousand other deaths in Guatemala during the same period. 
Ironically, one of the topics to be investigated with the two million dollar grant is "human rights." If the Coca-Cola cor­poration is seriously trying to improve human rights in Latin America, wouldn't it make more sense to begin massive direct funding of the indigenous human rights groups in Guatemala, El Salvador, Ar­gentina, Chile and Peru which at great personal risk, on shoestring budgets, are valiantly attempting to investi­gate and prosecute murders like the ones at Coke's own bottling plant? 
Far be it from me to suggest that the Coca-Cola plant grant is a publicity stunt. For all I know, it may represent new evidence of good will in the corporation. But I would sug­gest that until Coke begins to return a substantial portion of the enormous profits it makes in its third world operations back into those countries on a grass-roots level, to directly benefit the masses of poor who consume their product, then it ain't "the real thing." 
Steve Moriarty 
Notre Dame '69, '80 
South Bend, IN 

The murders of the eigh~t-:;::~~~--------m
SS


GARRY TRUDEAU 
1GREAT. IAJH&RE~ r
YOU BtT. IA/f 
ANONOIAJ
TIW7H£KNOT 
NO... NO, !T'5 NOT H£'5
IA/8'1<& 
RIGHT HCRE I'M IN 5HatJ

JUST THIS 
INMAUBU. BIEIN&$.I 

U!<E 7HATI IA/&'RE 60T A 
UXJKING

YE4R. 
FROM THe CHA/?L7VN 6UN!GO
a!IWT 70 fAIORJ<
ra<tUARO 
\
I 
CUJS/370 

t£TYOIJR AFAM!l-Yl 
7DRAISING 
I 
HOM£! GUN, HONI3Y.1 \ I 
Accent 
Wednesday, September 9, 1992 page 7 


Jeanne Blasi From the Playpen 
lntercrayola marriages add color 
I 
n the beginning, God created crayons: red, blue, and yellow. And He was pleased. 
In Redtown lived a crayon named Rosy. Rosy grew up like a typical red child. She only attended Crayolithic 

schools, was a colorball cheerleader and dated all the muscular "fat crayons." 
Rosy graduated from St. Crayons High School with honors and proceeded to the University of Colors. CU had a diverse crayola body; red, yellow, and blue crayons all attended the university. Rosy never knew a crayon of another color, but she assumed they were regular crayons, created by Crayola God, just like her. 
When Rosy started her freshman year, she didn't understand why the red, blue, and yellow crayons never mixed; in fact, she found them to be prejudiced. It did not make sense to Rosy; they were all crayons, some were just different colors from different crayon cultures. Why should it matter what color anyone was? 
Rosy once discussed this topic with her red friends, who said, "Oh, I'm friends with lots of yellow and blue crayons, but I don't think we were meant to mix with them. I'm not prejudiced, but just imagine what would happen if a red and a blue crayon fell in love and had a child. The poor crayon would be an unheard of color and everyone would persecute it mercilessly." 
Rosy did not understand their narrow­mindedness. How could two beautiful colors produce anything but a more beautiful color? 
Their attitudes especially upset Rosy because she was "scoping" on a hot yellow dude in the waxing hall. She finally got the courage to ask him to her colorfest and the two had a great time, in spite of everyone's staring and whispering. 
The two continued dating throughout college, and in spite of endless persecution, mocking, and being told how immoral they were, they got married and had a child. They named him Orange. 
Gaining courage from Rosy, other red and yellow crayons joined together and fought the prejudice of others. And soon orange crayons became prevalent and the ignorant, prejudiced crayons came to accept the Oranges (though some will always remain narrow-minded fools). 
Yellows and Blues soon followed suit producing green offspring. And Blues and Reds had purple offspring. 
Each color had to struggle to overcome the vast prejudices of the narrow-minded crayons. Some say it was ignorance, others argue it was fear. But it was slowly overcome. 
And on and on the mixing went. And more beautiful colors were created each time. Soon, prejudice was overcome, and now they can proudly say that the original box of three crayons has grown into a large box of 64 vibrantly colored crayons (with a built in sharpener). 
And Crayola God saw it. And He was pleased. 
This column was originally run in The Observer in October, 1990. 
Jeanne Blasi is production manager ofThe Observer. Her columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 
The Observer/Maureen Long 

Artist Jennifer Spitz poses in front of her mural. 
By ELISABETH HEARD 
Accent Writer 

They are all there: Rockne, Leahy, Parseghian, and 
Holtz. There are also such Notre Dame football greats as 
Joe Montana, George Gipp, and Angelo Bertelli. They are 
all present, frozen in time, for all to see. 
This mural of the history of Notre Dame football is not 
being shown in any museum or football hall of fame. It is 
painted on the basement wall of Paul Roy, a retired 
schoolteacher from California and Notre Dame fan. 
"''m a Notre Dame addict," Roy said. Upon moving to 
South Bend, Roy hired two art students, Jennifer Spitz 
from Saint Mary's and Laura Vinnedge from Notre Dame, 
to paint a mural saluting Notre Dame football on the four 
walls of his basement. 
"Everyone who walks in is in awe of its size," said Roy, 
"Specifically the Rockne part." 
Roy holds a special place in his heart for the famous 
football coach. In order to express this love, he created 
this mural which he feels represents everything that is 
great about Notre Dame. 
Along the first wall by the edge of the basement steps 
there is a painting of Joe Montana and Paul "The Golden 
Boy" Hornung. After Hornung there is a single lightbulb 
burning, and underneath is painted the words, " PRIDE. 
What Tho The Odds Be Great Or Small Notre Dame Men 
Will Give Their All." Next to that is a painting of the 
Golden Dome with the words "Lest We Forget." 
After the Dome, the mural moves on into the Rockne 
era. The four horsemen charge towards you with a look of 
determination, and next to them stands Rockne. George 
Gipp is to the right of Rockne. 
Roy recounts the legendary story about Gipp. "He had 
caught pneumonia and was on his death bed. They were 
going to play Army the next day. Rockne came to his bed, 
and when he was getting ready to leave, Gipp said 'Win 
one for the Gipper,' meaning beat Army. And they did the 
next day." 

As the wall turns the corner, the mural enters the Leahy 
era. Angelo Bertelli is poised, throwing a football and next 
to him is Johnny Lattner, ready to catch a pass. 
Roy looked admiringly at the large painting of Frank Leahy, "For the time he spent at ND he was the best coach we had. He won four out of five national championships." ·Roy sighed, "His health was going, and he and Father 
Hesburg didn't see eye to eye, so he retired." 
Next to Leahy near the floor is a simple representation 
of any sport, but especially Notre Dame football. Four 
anonymous players wait anxiously to get into the game. 
Next to them is Tom Clements, with his arms up ready to 
throw a football. Roy looked at him and laughed, "I put 
Sister Chain to record demo 
By MARA DIVIS 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
After months of planning and rehearsal, the music which has filled Clarissa Dalloway's and several other area events will be recorded as Sister Chain, the all-female band comprised of five Saint Mary's seniors, does a live recording tonight at Dalloway's. 
According to Erin Grefenstette, a band member, the group saw its start when four of its members were studying in Ireland. She said that they 
The Great Wall of South Bend 
-
Basement Mural preserves the history ofND football 

him up there in June when he hadn't made coach yet. Now he is the Notre Dame quarterback coach. It's pretty ironic." 
As the eras change from Leahy to Ara Parseghian, Joe Theisman runs with the football. In this section Parseghian smiles as Dave Reese gets ready to kick the football. · 
Turning the corner to the last wall, the well-known face of Lou Holtz finishes up the mural. The most recent football legends surround Holtz. Chris Zorich stands ready to attack, Tim Brown runs with a just caught pass, and Raghib Ismail strains to catch the football. 
Jennifer Spitz, the Saint Mary's artist who worked on the mural decided to become involved when she was approached by her professor. Roy asked the art depart­ments of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's if they had students who would be interested in such a project. 
"My teacher knew that I live in South Bend, and it would be convenient for me to do it. I wasn't quite sure about doing it at first because I had another job. So I waited a week and then gave him a call. It turned out that I was the first person to call who was really serious," said Spitz. 
The painting of the mural was a long and detailed process. "There was nothing but four walls," Spitz laughed. From its sparse beginnings Spitz used her talents to work magic and transform the wall into a work of art. "We used a projector to project the pictures on the wall. I then traced the pictures with markers because I wanted it to match almost perfectly." 
''I've been working on it since the middle of May, and I still have some finishing touches to do," Spitz said. 
Now that the mural is almost finished, she can look back and take an objective view of her work. "When I );Iegan, I thought that it was just going to be for a party room, and I didn't think much about it because I'm not really into football." Spitz stated. "But the more I painted, the more I learned about the history. It pulls out some of the most important people in Notre Dame history." 
Looking at the mural it is easy to become swept up in the richness of the history. There is a breathtaking aspect of some of the greatest figures at Notre Dame being preserved on the wall of a simple basement. 
"At first it was just a painting," Spitz said in amazement, "but the more I painted, the more I felt the spirit of the players, and it became more important to me." 
To celebrate the completion of the mural, Roy is holding a public showing on Sunday, September 13, between 2 and 5 p.m at 1106 Stanfield, four blocks south of the Notre Dame golf course. 
This mural is, to Paul Roy, the embodiment of everything that is special and unique about Notre Dame. 
belonged to a folk group at the college they attended and began to consider forming a band back at Saint Mary's. 
"We were in a folk group and we all liked singing together," she said. "We realized that there aren't any Saint Mary's bands. But Saint Mary's students have the drive to be in a band and to be in a community." 
The group's musical variations, which include a majority of original lyrics, in addition to covers of Sinead O'Connor and Indigo Girls music, will make up their recording tonight, Grefenstette said. 
"There's a wide range of musical tastes that enjoy our music," she said. "We're going to make a master tape to give to bars, to sell it, or to keep it for our own benefit," she said. 
The recording is tonight at Clarissa Dalloway's Coffeehouse and is sponsored by the Student Activities Board and Special Events, according to Joelle Kazmierski of SAB. One hun­dred twenty tickets are available at Haggar College Center. 


---------------------------------------------------------~------------~ 
The Observer accepts c\assifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 3t4 LaFortune and from t2 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Personal  
Notices  89 MERCEDES ......... $200  2 MICHIGAN GA'S FOR SALE  Need atleast 3 Purdue G.A.'S.  
86 VW .......................... $ 50  I NEED 2 GA's AND 1 STUDENT  Will Take Best Offer$  Will pay big $. 273-0629  $$$MICHIGAN$$$  
For more information and  87 MERCEDES .......... $100  TICKET FOR PENN STATE.  Call Steve at x3272  WILL TRADE RESV AT SB  
assistance regarding the  65 MUSTANG ............. $ 50  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS  Need Purdue tix  HOLIDAY  
investigation of financing, business  Choose from thousands starting  Call John X4478  Need Penn St. Tix  I have U2 tix & am willing to deal  INN ON 9/11 & 9/12 FOR 2 GA'S.  
opportunities and work-at-home  $25. FREE lnlormation-24 Hour  Tony x1786  x1884  CALL 283-2454.  
opportunities, THE OBSERVER  Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
urges its readers to contact the  #IN11KJC.  Need 1 Student Ticket tor Michigan  Need STANFORD GA's or STD's  HeyNiff  
Better Business Bureau of  SR. STUD. TIX FOR SALE. BEST  Will Pay Big $$$$  Call Brian 273-0967  
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  TYPEWRITERS: IBM Selectric &  OFFER. ''289-6589"  call Mason 289-4278  JUDGEMENT DAY IS COMING!!!  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ Selectric 11($75 ea/obo) 2729770  HAVE 2 STANFORD GA'S NEED  
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­ Need Mich tix. Stud or GA $ Call  FOR SALE:  TIX FOR BOSTON COLLEGE.  THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS  
9121 or 800-439-5313.  LUV SEAT & CHAIR($75). New  Brian 277-2645  2 Mich GA's  CALL WENDY X1264  Sept. 10 at Stepan 8:00p.m.  
coffee maker($10). 272-9770  283-4483  Tix on sale at Lafortune Info desk.  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  I need Michigan GA's.  NEED BYU TIXI CALL WENDY  $8 students-$12 Gen. Public  
STUDENT TIX BOOK 4-SALE.  Call Matt x1962.  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  X1264  
AITENTION CAMPUS BANDS!!!  JENNIFER 284-5503.  HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE  Madame X wuz here '92  
WVFI is looking for acts to take part  NEED TICKETS FOR ALL HOME  AT 618-439-3338.  LOOKING TO TRADE 2  
in a live campus bands show-a Ia  U2 TICKETS  GAMESICALL BRIAN 800-443­ STANFORD GA's FOR 2 BC GA's.  Are you looking for a warm, caring  
John Peel-on Wednesday nights  -for Tuesday, Sept. 15 at World  6701 x5281 or 312-248-3425  TICKET$$ TICKET$$ TICKETS$$  CALL JOHN at X3526.  romantic relationship with a loving,  
this semester. If you're interested in  Theater (Chicago)  $$$1 DEPERATELY N E E D  considerate partner? You are? Well,  
getting on the air, call Rolando at  -Call Rich at 287-3123; will accept  MICHIGAN TICKETS  6 G. A. 's FOR MICHIGAN$$$  MICHIGAN TIX needed  who isn't lame brain. Maybe if you  
273-0895.  best offer.  FACE VALUE!!  please, please, please, please  GA's or Student  spent more time getting to know the  
X1605  CALL X2454  Call Bill-1104  people around you than burying  
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP II  FURNITURE: Call: 287-7611  your#@%&'! nose in the classilieds  
BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday  Entertainment Center & Bookcase  NO Alum needs 2 tickets Purdue  Will pay big bucks for ND -MICH  Need 4 Perdue GA's  you'ld have a little success. Go on!  
- Pandora's Books 808 Howard 3 blks. from campus 233-2342  $30; Teak Bookcase $75; Oak Bookcase $20; Chair $20; Green  and BC. Call collect 216-282-9902  G.A. tix. Call Joe@ 287-4561.  Have Stanford GA's to trade +$$ John x1166  Put the paper down the paper and do some schmoozing. Don't be  
Easy Chair $50.  NEED MICHIGAN TIXI  HAVE 2 NORTHWEST GA's  pathetic ALL your life.  
.......Appalachian Seminar********  GA'S& STUD.  NEED MICH and/or  $$ND-Mich stud or GAs needed$$  
Take part in an extraordinary  FOR SALE: G.A.s for ALL  PLEASE CALL MIKE AT:  WHOLE STUD. BOOKS  call Steve x1594  
opportunity to learn about yourself  Home Games.  287-1506  288-1 027 -MARK  
in the Appalachian region of  X 1679  HELP!!!  
Kentucky and West Virginia over  Two Football bklts, right together, 4  WANT TO MAKE A BUCK?  NEED 2 MICHIGAN GA's.  STEVE CURLEY'S COMING TO  
your fall break.  BSR 6 disc CD player. Remote, 2  sale. Call 2309 leave message and  I REALLY NEED MICH. TICKETS!  TIM x 2763.  TOWN!  
Applications now available at the  Cartridges. Good Condition. Call  name price.  WILL PUT DEPOSIT ON TICKET  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  STEVE CURLEY'S COMING TO  
esc.  Dan x1689.  BOOK. CALL JON DEBARTOLO  TOWN!  
Important information meeting on  I have 6 Mich. Ga's, 2 purd  AT x3587.  2 U2 9/16 4sale -BILL X2187  Look out Domer's, Curley is BACK!  
September 8.  SKIS  GA's,need 9 Mich. stud. let's make  Watch out for him at the Michigan  
Atomic 833sl -top of the line  a deal. Call mike at 273-2233.  HELP!! Need 1 STAN GA  "MICH TIX CHEAP" MIKE 1594  game-ready to attack!!!  
3-year old male chesapeake bay  direct from factory, still wrapped  Call Scott at x4243  He will be watching Irish Guard!  
retriever needs good home lor the  excellent pric.e!  Need G.A.'s for B.C.,B.Y.U. and  Good price  Needed: 2 Michigan  
school year. For information call  Kevin x1062  Penn St. Will pay BIG! #4419  4 BC GA's  WE LOVE YOU STEVE!  
Mike or Theresa at 239-5368.  PLEASE PLEASE.  Joe #1112  Love, your favorite Walshiitesl  
Tickets  We Have G.A.s for ALL  I NEED MICH. GA'S.  
ILOST & FOUND I  PLEASE HELP: My dad wol.Jid like to see one  Home games incl. MICH. Call x1679  CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303 BEFORE 4 PM, OR 272-3753 AFTER 5.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ A rich old man will pay serious cash for 2 Mich. G.A.'s. Call Chris  HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY  
LOST: BLACK PURSE BETWEEN FISHER & HURLEY. CALL 283-3103\F FOUND.  Michigan game before I graduate and need tickets. Call Mike 283-1161  ELP!!I I NEED 1 STANFORD GA My grandmother is making her first and last visit to ND from Yazoo City, MS (would I make that up)  SCALPERS NEED NOT CALL. DESPERADO NEEDS Ml TICKET JUST ONEil Student or GA.  x1624 Wealthy alum will trade job and both children for Michigan ticket...  ANDY AUYER!! Get ready for a great night at Coach's! Luv, the BP gang  
LOST: silver ring in Hayes Healey 1st floor bathroom. Sentimental value -please call Laura 273 8377.  I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.272-6306 Have 4 Penn St. GA Will trade lor 4 Mich GA  and would like to see a game while she is here! Please call Stephanie at x37 43 I need 4 PURDUE GA's and I can  Call Tim x4116 HELP !II Need 4-5 GAs for Nov. 7 BC game. Please call x3799. Thanks.  call Tom @289-3887 MICHIGAN stud. tkts. FOR SALE!!! best offer. call #1756  Tracey, Happy Birthday to my favorite lefty! This comes with more "upside down stamp" than you know! See  
FOUND: 2 keys on a ring outside of Haggar on 9-7. Call x2989 to claim.  Call Bo at 3502 WANTED: GA'S/STUDENT TIX  PAY; call Tom, x1663. Pay big $$$ for THREE MICH. GA's  NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN PLEASE HELP. CALL 1573  I NEED 1 MICH. STUD. TICKET CALL VINCE 272-8503  you at the station. -Pep '"CLUB 23"'  
FOR ANY/ALL HOME GAMES­ or student tix (will put down deposit  TONIGHT! Quarter Cups!  
WANTED  MICH. A MUST! ALUMNI IN DESPERATE NEED!! 708-843­ for book) Call Pat: 232-4528  Will give First Born and CASH for MICH Tixlll Even more for  SELLING MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS BOOKLET  I COULDNT AFFORD THE  
6947.  Need 1 Mich. stud or GA  SEASON TIXIII KAY x3489  (9-11) 271 19 98  PLANE, BUT I WANTED TO TELL  
NEEDED BYU and Michigan GA's.  -Sean 273-2497  ALL THE TRUTH.  
Please call 284-4308.  Need tix for P.S.U.  HELP!  MICH TIX For Sale  SOLDIER, I LOVE YOU. THANK  
Mich. Pur  I need 2 MICHIGAN tix  NEED 2-10 STANFORD GA'S  Call2711514  YOU FOR THE WORKS.  
GOING TO THE U2 CONCERT?  $$bob x3398  call Kathleen X4092.  CALL JOE X 1560  
4 desperate babes need a ride to  OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES  
and from on 9/16. Will pay gas &  $$ Need Mich Tic $$ GA or Student  I have a pair of incredible MICH  NO Alum needs 2 reasonably priced  
tolls. Will split up 2 & 2 if needed.  -Name Your Price  GA's. Will take best offer. Call  Michigan tix. Please call (408)492­ MARRIED STUDENT TIX BOOK  2 HOTEL ROOMS AVAILABLE  
PLEASE HELP US! Call x4721.  Call Jim 273-2969  Chrissy-3845 or 3620.  0660 X248 or (415)579-1432.  MICH game 9/11-9/12 in Elkhart.  
FOR SALE BOB 287-9118  Call Will at 716-383-7439 or 716­ 
EASY, FUN PHONE WORK.  $$NEED 4 MICH GAs BADLY$$  Football tickets for sale-married  N.D. ALUM NEEDS 4 MICH GA'S.  288-7439  
EVENINGS. HIGH PAY. 237-1988.  CALL AMY x2609  student booklets 273-9424.  WILLING TO PAY OR TRADE ANY  NO ID REQUIRED  
OTHER HOME GAME GA'S.  NO ID REQUIRED  Wanted: Transportation for 2  
Going to  Desperately seeking GAs  Sell married student booklet. Like  PLEASE CALL (312) 327-9853 ASK  wonderful women to the Sept. 15  
WINNIPEG, MANITOBA  for  GA's (not ID needed). 273-9612  FOR PAUL OR LEAVE A  U2 concert in Chicago. PLEASE  
lor Christmas break?  Michigan and Stanford !!1!!11  MESSAGE.  call X4068  
Will take riders to split the cost  Please call Liz at x3783 or x2184.  09/11  BOSTON COLLEGE SUCKS!  
Christina 283-2974  Need 1 or 2 GAs tor Mich-who  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  So why don't you sell me your  MARGE  
NEED PENN ST. TIX. GA'S ONLY.  doesn't? Call Judy-239-6515.  tickets?  
EXTERIOR PAINTERS  234-8306 OR 800-323-7687.  I need Michigan student tickets and  Call Delli 283-1693  'T'N'D'  
Experienced Student Painters  I DESPERATELY NEED A GA OR  2 BYU GA's.  TROOP NOTRE DAME  
needed to paint South Bend area  NEED 2 MICH. GA'S WILL BUY,  STUDENT TICKET FOR PENN  NEED TWO MICHIGAN G.A.'S  
homes. Full or Part Time.  OR TRADE FOR PURDUE, BYU,  STATE-GALL JAHNELLE AT 283­ Call Molly 284-4377  CALL STEVE 277-5329  The organizational meeting  
AMERICA'S COLLEGE PAINTERS  BOST. COLL. OR PENN ST. GA'S.  2998  scheduled lor Thurs. Sep. 1 0  
1 (800)626-6267  232-0817  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Brother coming out for weekend  9:00 p.m. at rm. 219 Rockne  
"painting America's homes coast to  I need student and/or GA Purdue  Desperately need  has been changed to the  
coast"  football tickets and Boston College  FOUR FRIENDS OF A PLAYER ON  3 or 4 MICH TIX  Notre Dame Room -2nd floor  
HELP HELP HELP!  GA football tickets; please call Dave  THE '88 TEAM NEED TIX FOR  $$$$$$$$$$$  Lafortune  
EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our  I NEED A BOOK OF STUDENT  at x4506.  MICHIGAN GAME. THEY REALLY  Call Jon x4239  
circularsi...Begin NOW!... FREE  TICKETS -for my over the hill  WANT THE TIX BAD.  'T'N'D'  
packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box  Alumni Brother.  NEED 2 Michigan GAs $$$ x3593  CALL 1075 AND ASK FOR MARK  PLEASE!!III  
4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000.  If you want to sell yours,  OR QUAALUDE  Need one BC GA lor friend from  ARTS AND LEITERS BUSINESS  
CALL BLAS AT X2645.  NEED STUDENT TIX FOR MICH.  Cali. Please call Gina B 4974.  SOCIETY-ORGANIZATIONAL  
For Rent  WILLING TO PAY BIG $$$.  WANTED:  MEETING-ALL ARE WELCOME TO  
CALL BRIAN AT 273-8453.  MICH. AND PURDUE TIX. CALL  WILL TRADE  AITEND. WED. AT 6:30 IN THE  
SHARP RIVERFRONT HOME­ MIKE @1151 & LEAVE MSGE.  2 MSU GAs  NOTRE DAME ROOM, 2ND  
FOOTBALL WKNDS/SHORT TERM  will trade 2 STAN GA for 2 PSU  I NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS  FOR  FLOOR LAFORTUNE  
RENTALS. ALSO APT. &  GA or STD x1645  ONE OR TWO PLEASE!! I  Wanted: MICH & PURD TIX. Call  1 U of M GAISTUDENT  
BEDROOMS.257-91 01.  $$CALL JOHN X 1450$$  Mike@ 1151 & Leave Msg.  PLEASE CALL ASAP  MIMS IS COOL.  
Badly need 2 student or GA tickets  MERI 284-4346  Sorry, Mims. They rejected my  
NICE B & B ACCOMMODATIONS  to Michigan. Will pay good money.  MY BRO IS A GREAT H.S. QB.  I NEED TWO MICHIGAN TIX  MAY SELL 2 MSU GAs  column. Is this close enough?  
AVAILABLE NEAR NO. CALL  x2714.  HE LUVS TO GET PLAYS FROM  STEVE 277-8178  
271-0989.  NO. HE NEEDS PLAYS.  NEED PENN STATE TICKETS.  '"HEY LADIES OF ND/SMC'"  
THERE'S ONE WAY.  I need 2 GA's for both B.C. and  WILL PAY $40 EACH. CALL  JIM GUERRERA IS 22 YEARS  
BED "N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  I have MARRIED student tix book  SELL ME YOUR PU, ST, BYU, BC,  Penn State. 283-4607.  COLLECT 614 -354-5716  OLD TODAY! IF YOU'VE ALREADY  
219-291-7153  Need to sell Marty 1165  PENN GA'S!  BEEN "HOOKED" BY HIS CHARM  
CALL ERIN 284-5128.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  TRADE:  OR JUST WANT TO BE SWEET  
UNIQUE B & B COUNTRY  I have MARRIED student tix book  MICH tix lor STAN tix  TALKED BY A SMOOTH  
SEITING. MINUTES FROM NO  Need to sell Marty 1165  HELP I NEED TO TRADE 4 BC  I NEED MICHIGAN STUDENT  please call Marce x4857  OPERATOR, WISH HIM A HAPPY  
NEAR GRANGER. CALL 616-663­ GA'S FOR 4 BYU GA'S. PLEASE  TICKETS and BYU GA's.  BIRTHDAY!  
8308.  .. 1993 FINAL FOUR ..  CALL COLLECT AFTER 8 PM  If you have some you are willing to  I NEED MICH STUD. TIX  
I have 2 tickets to 1993 FINAL 4 in  (609) 769-0721.  sell please call Molly 284-4377  CALL JOHN X3646  B,C,D,S,  
West End Mishawaka apartment,  New Orleans. Will trade for  YOU DONT KNOW  
newly remodeled clean 1 bdrm,  STANFORD GA's. Larry x3671  WANTED:  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  SELLING ONE STUDENT TKT  LOVE,  
$275 @ mo. + deposit + utilities.  STANFORD GA'S &/OR STUD'S  SEC 35 B/0 LV MESSAGE  THE BEST  
256-2108 or 256-7152 alter 6 pm.  I Need 1 MICH STUD  WILL PAY$ $ $ I  2 MICHIGAN GAs available. Trade  283-2291  
4648 Maria  PLEASE CALL TODAY!  lor PENN ST or best$ offer 614­ HAPPY 21ST B-DAY BREIT  
For Sale  DANIELA 284-4346 OR  885-8196  Need general admission tickets lor  MORASKI ! I I You're the man!  
If you have 2 MICH GAs, I have lots  BOB 283-1090  Michigan and Purdue games. Call  EHII!  
RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR,  of$$$$ Call Kirstin x4281  THANKS!  Will pay BIG BUCKS lor 2 MICH  Mary Lou or Ray. Daytime:234­ Erik,Bryan,Pat, and Pete  
TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE  GA's. Call STEVE 289-2683  7553. Evening: 234-3873  
SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR,  I Really Need 1 Student ticket for  NEED 1 MICHIGAN STUDENT  Hey Cowboy!  
TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE  Penn State ...Brian at x1771  TICKET OR GA. WILL PAY  PLEASE HELP!  Ticket booklet for sale!!!!!!  want you, need you, miss you, &  
SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY  BUCKS\\ SHANNON X2996  ALUMNUS SEEKS GA'S TO  Leave offer on answering machine.  LOVEYOUI  
FREE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS,  Any Mich GAs out there? If so, call  MICHIGAN. CALL BILL AT 614­ '3647  
272-5959  Brian at x1771  NEED 1 STANFORD AND 1 BC  885-4616 AND I WILL CALL YOU  
GA. CALL X2805  BACK. THANK YOU!  

Wednesday, September 9,1992 The Observer page 9 
Edberg takes giant step toward a U.S. Open repeat 
NEW YORK (AP) -Stefan Edberg took a giant step toward successfully defending his U.S. Open title yesterday when he defeated Richard Krajicek of the Netherlands 6-4, 7-6 (8-6), 6-3. 
The victory, his first over the Dutchman in three meetings, put Edberg into the quarterfinals of the year's final Grand Slam tournament. 
For Edberg, the No. 2 seed, the victory was not as easy as the score might indicate. Both players used their strong serves to set up a rush to the net where they hit penetrating volleys. It was just that Edberg was a little bit better in all aspects. 
It was the third time the two have met -and the first time the Swede has won. Krajicek had beaten Edberg in New Haven, Conn., in 1991 and in Tokyo earlier this year. 
Monday night, John McEnroe said he sees the writing on the wall. It's probably because he can't the writing on the ball as it goes whizzing past. 
'This is a pretty clear indica­tion that Jim has outplayed me and that the top guys are clearly a step ahead of me," McEnroe said after falling to top-seeded Jim Courier in a fourth-round match. 
"I have nothing to hang my head about," McEnroe said. "I played as hard as I could. He just outplayed me, simple as that." 
McEnroe plays a touch game, chipping, taking the net, using angles. Courier is raw power. 
And when Monday's match on the hardcourts of the National Tennis Center finished its two­hour, 34-minute run, Courier had overpowered the 33-year­old McEnroe 6-2, 6-2, 7-6 (7-1). 
Although Courier, winner of the Australian Open in January and his second straight French Open in June, used his powerful serves and blistering groundstrokes to bludgeon McEnroe, he was gracious to the crafty left-bander who has won seven Grand Slam titles ­three Wimbledons and four U.S. Opens. 
"At his peak, I don't think there was anybody that could beat him ... on grass," Courier said. "I am sure we are going to miss him when he is gone. you jus don't replace talents just like that. There are some other players, surely, but there will never be another John." 
It was a battle of styles ­power vs. touch -and of eras -the past vs. the present. McEnroe, an aging but dan­gerous warrior, had no answers to the various problems presented by Courier, the world's top-ranked player . 
Then, to show that the teach­ings of McEnroe have been ap­preciated and absorbed, Courier even showed his deft touch with a drop volley, a shot that brought a smile to McEnroe's face. 
The victory boosted Courier into the quarterfinals where he will face eighth-seeded Andre Agassi, a 6-4, 6-3, 6-2 winner over No. 10 Carlos Costa of Spain Monday night. 

"I am not writing him off," Courier said of McEnroe. "I am not putting him in the grave because he has still got a lot of good tennis in him." 
The other top-half quarter will pit No. 3 Pete Sampras, the 1990 U.S. Open champion, against surprising Alexander Volkov of Russia. On Monday, Sampras stopped No. 13 Guy Forget of France 6-3, 1-6, 1-6, 6-4, 6-3 while Volkov stopped Brad Gilbert 6-2, 6-4, 5-7, 7-6 
ATTENTION!!! 
Accounting Majors Meet the Firms Night 
Wednesday, September 9 7-9 p.m. Monogram Room, J.A.C.C. 
(7 -5) in a battle of unseeded players. 
In a third-round men's match, No. 14 MaliVai Washington needed just 10 points to topple Frenchman Henri Leconte in the shortest and longest match of the day. 
Washington broke Leconte at 30, then served a love game to capture a 6-4, 6-7 (2-7), 6-4, 6­3 victory in a match that was suspended Sunday night be­cause of rain. 
In women's play, second­seeded Steffi Graf defeated Florencia Labat of Argentina 6­2, 6-2; No. 5 Arantxa Sanchez Vicario defeated No. 14 Zina Garrison 6-0, 6-1; No. 9 Manuela Maleeva-Fragniere defeated Carrie Cunningham 6­3, 7-5 and Magdalena Maleeva of Bulgaria defeated 16-year­old Chanda Rubin x-x. 
In the quarters, Magdalena, at 17 the youngest of the three Maleevas, will play her oldest sister for the second time in a tournament. Manuela, now married and living in Switzerland, beat Magdalena in the first round of the Canadian Open two years ago. 
It will be the first time sisters have met at the U.S. Open since Katerina Maleeva, the middle sister, defeated Magdalena in a first-round match in 1990. 


Clean~)~~~QJI@Stop
ass•i•slant•····•at••······•oa••rt•m·o·u•t.h·············· 
ALUMNIIll SENIOR !CLUB Thursday is ___ Night! (Rhymes With Pup) START THE FIRST FOOTBALL WEEKEND OFF RIGHT! The place to be for the "Class of '93" 9-2 must be 21  recycle Li111ousinc t-r Primtc Transportation Scruicc AvailablL' For Business & Social EngagL•nwnts (2/fJ) 273-!234 '?•u (2/fJ) 271-0442 P.O. Box 109 • Notre Dame, IN 46556-0lOlJ Very Reasonable Rates: $5.00 Anywhere within city limits $25. 00 per hour Equipped with Color Tv, VCR and Stereo  


Young men's soccer team confident about conference opener at Loyola 

BY JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team may be the best 0-2 team in the nation. 
Although they dropped two tough games to No. 4 UCLA and No. 13 Duke last weekend, the Irish proved that they can compete with the nation's best. 
Coming away from the sea­son's first two games without a win is usually a disappoint­ment, but the young Irish are confident heading into tonight's Midwest Collegiate Conference opener against Loyola in Chicago. 
"I think we're going in with a reasonable amount of confi­dence," Notre Dame coach Mike Berticelli said. "We had a chance to look at the game films and the players realize that if they work hard and im­prove in certain areas they could be a very good team." 
Loyola may not have the tal­ent of UCLA or Duke, but the Irish won't have to worry about a letdown tonight. Last season, the Ramblers handed Notre Dame their only conference loss with a 2-0 season-opening win and the Irish are looking for revenge. 
"We are very motivated for this game," Berticelli said. "We look at every win as important and we want to take each game individually." 
Conference games will be especially important for the Irish this season as they pursue the MCC tournament champi­onship and a berth in the NCAA tournament. 
But post-season play is a long way off, and a win over Loyola tonight would get the confer­ence season started in the right direction. That will not be an 
Monty 
continued from page 12 
abnormalities in heart rhythm and blood flow through the heart now provide a basis for classifying HCM patients. Because of this, NIH doctors now believe that patients such as Williams with a very low risk should be allowed to play competitive sports. 
" Our greatest concern has always been for Monty's health, and our only interest has been for him to continue to monitor his condition and obtain the most up-to-date diagnostic opinions available," 

,_.-Notre Dame athletic director Dick Rosenthal stated. "We're delighted for him that subsequent examinations and information by an acknowl­edged expert in this area of medical research have resulted in this favorable report on Monty's present and future health." 
Indiana Auto Insurance Our good rates may save you money. Call f0raquote9-5, 289-1993. Office near camp.Js. 
~------------------1 

The Observer/Jake Peters Irish midfielder Jason Fox and the rest of the men's soccer team begin conference play today against Loyola. 
easy task for an Irish team that starts six sophomores and a freshmen. 
Although they are very tal­ented players, their inexperi­ence showed against UCLA and Duke. Freshman Bill Lanza scored Notre Dame's only goal of the season, and will be po­tent offensive threat throughout the season, while sophomores Jean Joseph, Tim Oates and Tont Richardson will also have to contribute for the Irish to be successful. 
Defensively, the Irish have some new faces joining veteran Mario Tricoci. Senior Kevin 
Irish 
continued from page 12 
points in just the first two games of the season. 
Guerrero looks to be just the ingredient that the Irish will need to establish themselves as one of the nation's premier programs. 
recycle! 
Study Abroad in Ireland! 
Information Session 
SMC Wed. Sept. 9 

?p.m. Chameleon Room, Haggar College Center, 
Saint Mary's College campus 
Everyone is welcome. 
Pendergast and junior Mike Palmer both moved to defense in the preseason and have had surprising success against some of the nation's top offensive players. 
Tonight they will be put to the test again. 
"Loyola is a tough place to play and we'll have to be ready," Berticelli added. "They have a very good team and we're looking forward to play­ing them. They beat us last year and they have some excel­lent players so we will have to play well." 
corrections The volleyball photo in yesterday's paper was incorrectly identified. The player was Ball State's Carin Zielinski. 
Wednesday, September 9,1992 
.•_-········••.m .• .•.•_s.·_•-•-•--·-•-·
__~r_·-_•·.·---·····-_·····-······-··-···-··········_····s_ .•_-...••. a.•·•••-··._,__.w.··.•-••-•-· ___._-_._ 
.•-The tt&f>tte oarne Soccer Club wiD be Mlding tryog~JQt~U
undergtads on Septelriber ;,8 l)lld 10 at S p.rp. at the fie](l~ 
$OuthJl(the 
•. JA.(;C· parking -l~t across Edison
•. Bring a baJ1j(. 
po~sib)~. .·· ·•··· · .. · · 
·.·.-.:_:_:.:.:: 
..... _NP/SMC women;s lacrosse is s'till.•loQking.for meQ1bet-$/' .Qtl~U9~?· Call_Heather at 284~$1():3 or Cathy.at 283~4998.• ··· ·:: 
•••.•••.•• football Oqi;i:~:-~re.needectfor HeeSportsl¢~es, f-:f!tt\e ~; )neetiogtm.·.~Pte~tJJJnthe .JA.CC FootbaU AudltQriwn at li 
~tfrii~~ 91,*~1$~~~!~~nd•.~t.g;~9.p.m. for }Vomen'~j9t~r4all· 


·---~~p,;~~~
!ll·,==~~~31•:~~~tiiii•. 
$*l¢®r' Ehl:ri~s ~e .due in the ReeSports Office m the JACe .by S~piember ~hi···· · ·· 
~'~~ :mpus 2-petSOft golf scramb~ will take ploce on Sept~r 27+ The tournament is open to all students, faeultyan-d $®i. Sigrlup. as an individual or in pairs. Entries and. entry fee~ d;ue byseptember 23. . 
..... ·. .... . 
\Anyone interested in indoor or outdoor track should eo111e ~o an information meeting on September 9 at 4 p.m. in Lort1J5 Auditorium. Questions? Call Yvette McNeill at 2834412. 
·• 
••···•·. Fellowship of· Christian Athtetes will be playing volleyball 
~n Septem_ber<~ at 5 p.m. on tbe Stepan courts. There will also 
pe>a meeting on September 10 at 7 p.m. in the basement Qf 
Farley.··· 
......... 
$t~~em$ ~Jiij h~v~ ri.bt. b()Y,ght.t1leir·$tudent ticket books. c~pp9rchase..• the~t;. (JckeJs•.. at. t}le -JACC bQx oft'ic~, Stud~nts .must.. J?r~s~nttlmir ticketJorni an<l itUo buy the tiC~ets.. . · ·· 
::·:.::·::··:·········:·· 

A grass volleyball tournament sponsored ]Jy the men's voll¢yb~ll team will be. held September 13 on White field~ Registrat!on will be taken up to the start of play out at the courtS~ $5 .ffrr ~oubles a.nd $8 for quads before 1 p.m. on Saturday,. $7 fot doubles and $10 for quads between 7 p.m. SatUl:'day and 9 a.m. Sunday, can Dan at 283~1086 or Chris at 277~5415 for infonnation and registration. 
RecSports intermural tennis players need to play first match by September 14. 
The SMC track team will be holding an informational 
meeting f()r all who are futerested on September 14 at 8 p.m. in Angela Athletic Center. 
Anycme interested in off~campus women's football. should call Theresa Forst or MarianneHaggerty at 273·2388. 

GUATEMALEN &INDIAN IMPORTS 
jewelry, clothing, & accessories GREAT SELECTION, GREAT PRICES! 
stoP bY SEPTEMBER 7-12 to look, buy, 1_0 a.m:-5 p.m. r Visit... 1n Sorm Room 
o of LaFortune 
$1 Raffle for $60 in merchandise. Proceeds go to St. Thomas Lutheran Church for project in Guatemala 



--~ -------~----------------------~----------------------------------------------------------~~­
..

Today 
Wednesday, September 9,1992 page 11 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

OH,NO,NOT AT AU.ITS£t'MS.-------------, w£ NEED A CDRf\~5PoND€N IN nt£ AFrf"RUF£. You KNOW, So(l1f:CNE TV 6,E"f" GOD's OPINION ON nlt LATEST i.U~l..D EVENT5 MAYBE 6o 1Zl H<LL 1\N D tiVI(;f<.VIEW fi\MOV~ /{X.If· 
ClA-NS. SiNCE" YoU'RE ntE /...£ 1\SI Po PUL..!'rR 
CHARACTER IN 1H1S SfRIP, WE CttosE" YoU. :!:1 SHvULD BE FUN. 
~ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 A kind of bone 5 Ride downhill 10Computer 
information 14 Grocery item 15 High dudgeon 16 Material for a 
lamp base 17 UNITED 
STATES 19M. Coty 20 On the outside 21-thefat 
(gabbed) 23Truncate 24 Him and her 25 European 
polecat 29 Athas and Burr 33 Filipe, Jesus or 
Matty 
9 Like a windpipe ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Meola . 
11 Over aga1n 
~;:+:::-!-=-! 13 Cut down 

i-!-1-~~:...j 18 Narrow fillet on 
a shaft 
22 Greeting 
24 Private 

instructor ~~+=-! 25 Ancient temples R.;.+:=+=~ 26 Actress 
Verdugo 27 One in a scull 
iii(~~~··· 28 Jamaican
Ill export 

-=+±+--F--E+=+:~ 29 Cubes .;;+:~t-:-l 30 "Jaws" menace ~~~ 31 Like some 
currents 

BILL WATTERSON  
I"VE GOT !>­\)ART Gl.lN, fWE COMIC BOOK'S, '3:lt#.E G\Jt-\, A ~Rt:.tKI-\, A. BOOK 01'{ B\J<;S, A Mt>-P OF MONTAN/>-, AN ERA'SER., f-.1'\D A ROCK.  "ffiE UMBREU..A DOOSLES KSA Pr>.RP.,C\\\JTE  


Calvin and Hobbes 
NC, WE \-11\0 PI"Z.ZA I..AST NIGI-\T, AN\) BES\OE5, IT'S 
1\)C:) t.X~S\'J£. 1t> £AT 
0\.l\ 1\\.L IWC. llM£ . 

32 Teatime treat 34ltem in a rec room 37 Author of "Daniel 
Deronda" 38 A chemical salt 39 Transport for 
Sin bad 44 Loser to St. George 45 Combination in a bridge hand 46 Furniture style 
48 Fanatic 49"-Price Glory?" 
so Like an underdone steak 
51 "-kleine Nachtmusik" 52"Givea­horse ..." 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
53 Roman statesman 
54 Certain transportation to N.Y.C. 
55 Site of Vance 
A.F.B. 56 Salesman's car 59 Lemmon film: 
1967 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

At Slow Cheetahs Anonymous 


CAMPUS Wednesday 
7 p.m. Engineering Placement Night. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Sponsored by Career Placement Services. 
MENU 

Notre Dame 
Marinated Flank Steak Sandwich Cheese Sticks with Marinara Sauce Grilled Sole 
Saint Mary's 
Baked Cod Fried Clams Fried Shrimp 
by Bill Watterson 
34 Very important 35-jacet (words on a tombstone) 36 UNITED 
STATES 40 Vane letters 41 Cargo handler 42 Port in Algeria 43 Young 
pilchards 45 Gridiron player 47 Newspaper 
section, for short 48 Scarlet 49 Foliage arrangement 52 Put handcuffs on 
57 Reagan's first Secretary of State 58 UNITED 

STATES 60 Pisa's river 61 Military coat 62 Neat 63 Harold of the 
comics 64 Give the slip to 65 Booklet on 
Masses 
DOWN 

1 Used a loom 2 Berry-bearing 
shrub 3 Famed muralist 4 "Sweet" place 5 Is unable to 6 Ready to be 
drawn 7 "-inCalico," old song a Cap. Hill figure 
IO~B 
••• --: -·· .,. ____ ... _____ y ___ -----.... --.-·..-·.... 


Sports 

page 12 Wednesday, September 9,1992 
JENNY 
Monty Williams to return to Irish lineup
MARTEN 

BY MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Editor 
On Top of Sports 

The Notre Dame men's basketball 1-------------:-----t team, which had no senior scholarship 
New generati.On dominating pro 
tennis ranks 
Murmurs of retirement were circulating around the National Tennis Center yesterday after John McEnroe lost to the younger Jim Courier 6-2, 6­2, 7-6. 
McEnroe himself hinted that he might have reached the end of his career. 
"I am not as good as the top players. That's the bottom line. I am an echelon below," said McEnroe after his match. 
It has been a rough week for the fans of the tennis heroes of the early 1980's. In addition to McEnroe, birthday boy Jimmy Connors also fell in U.S. Open action to Ivan Lend! this week after celebrating his 40th. Even the durable Martina Navratilova is showing serious signs of weakness after losing to an unknown in the early rounds and Chrissy Evert has already left the sport to start a family. 
It appears that the sport of tennis has become dominated by a new, younger generation of stars on both the men's and women's sides. These young stars include Courier, Pete Sampras and Andre Agassi as well as Monica Seles and Jennifer Capriati. 
They are quicker and stronger. On the other side of the net, the aging stars of the early 80's look slow to react and well...kinda old. 
I enjoy watching the new generation play because their matches are fast paced and exciting. They are at the top of their game and it shows as they send backhand bullets and rocket serves across the net. 
Watching the older generation isn't easy. With McEnroe and Connors and Navratilova slipping into the unfamiliar role of underdog, I find myself rooting for them not because of their play on the court, but rather for nostalgic reasons hoping to see one of them win one more Grand Slam tournament. 
It's kind of like watching Larry Bird in his final games. The glory years had passed and all the world had left was a hero whose body couldn't overcome this injury. Sentimentality aside, I think that Bird made the right decision. 
I would love to see these tennis greats continue playing, but I don't think that they can be competitive anymore. The time has come for them to start seriously considering retirement. 
This doesn't mean that I think the sport should be dominated by teenagers. I have yet to mention the tennis stars of the late 80's such as Ivan Lend!, Boris Becker and Steffi Graf. These players are still at the top of their game and have an experience -advantage over the younger players. 
Look for Graf, Lend! and Becker to make a significant impact on the outcome of this year's Open while Connors, McEnroe and Navratilova contemplate retirement. 

players on its roster, got one yesterday when the University announced that six­foot-seven forward Monty Williams has been cleared to play in the upcoming 
se~~~iams, who was withheld from competing with the team the last two years due to a probable diagnosis of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), was released to play by his physicians at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) following continued research and more detailed classification that indicate that his condition does not pose a threat to his health that would preclude his partici­pation in varsity sports. "Monty is going to have a positive impact on the team," Notre Dame assistant coach Jimmy Black said. "The other kids are going to have a lot of respect for him because of what he has gone through. "It is still too soon to say what role he will play on the team. Roles are defined once we start practice on November 1." Though Black feels it is too early, center/forward Jon Ross believes Williams' part on the team has already been determined. "He is going to be our go to guy and have a big impact on the team," the six­foot-nine junior said. Williams, who averaged 7.7 points and 
3.7 rebounds per game as a freshman in 1989-90, has two years of eligibility remaining. 
He has undergone continued regular testing and evaluation since September, 1990 when his condition was first detected during a routine physical exam­ination. 
In particular, he went through a week­long exhaustive physical examination in July, after which doctors in Bethesda, 

1"0010 counesy OT NOire uame ::.pons 1mormat10n Monty Williams to return to the Irish basketball team this year after sitting out two seasons 
because of a heart ailment. 
Md. determined that patients like Williams should be able to compete in intercollegiate athletics. 
"When the initial diagnosis was made two years ago, there was no determination of the amount of risk involved," Dr. Stephen Simons, the University physician who has worked with Williams throughout the case commented. 
"Further research and clinical testing now permit risk assessment in individual cases. It's the judgment of the NIH staff that Monty's case falls into the extremely small risk category. 
Notre Dame volleyball team dominates Morehead State 
BY DAN PIER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team has earned its first national ranking since 1988. The Irish are ranked 20th in the nation inVolleyball Monthly magazine, while the American Volleyball Coaches Association lists them 24th. After both polls came out yesterday afternoon, the Irish (5-0) went out and celebrated by crushing Morehead State 15-1, 15-2, 15-6 last night at the JACC. 
"I think it's great that we're finally ranked," said Irish head coach Debbie Brown. "It doesn't really mean anything, but it's important in establishing our program. It's another documentation of the progress we've made." 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.:. The Not re Dame program has made a
INSIDE SPORTS 

major resurgence since 
......=M""'e-n--,''s_s_oc-,-·

•. -ce-·r-.-pr_e_p_a_re_s.....-fo'r-.L'o-y'o:-ola-:-··' Brown took over in 1991, see page 10 one year after the Irish 
posted a 9-27 record. The coach, however, was quick
.Cleary takes top assistant post at 

to credit the players for
Dartmouth see page 9 

the turnaround. 
"The players have 
•Edberg looks to repeat at U.S. 

worked very hard for (the Open see page 9 
ranking)," Brown said. "I think they deserve it and 
~~~~~~----~----~~ 
I'm happy for them." 
In last night's match, the Irish established their dominance immediately, taking just 13 minutes to dispatch the Lady Eagles in game one. Christy Peters had five kills and Molly Stark added two aces to lead the attack. Notre Dame pounded out nine kills while committing only one error for an astounding .800 attack rate. 
Morehead State scored the first two points of game two, but Notre Dame took over from behind the service line after that. Marilyn Cragin used a wicked jump serve to tally four of her team's seven aces for the game. Stark and Nicole Coates, starting for the first time, assaulted the Lady Eagles defense from the net. 
"I made the decision to start Nicole and Molly because they have really been coming on of­fensively," Brown explained. "They have been pushing Alycia and Jessica (Turner and Fiebelkorn, respectively, the usual starters) very hard and they continued to do an excellent job tonight." 

In the third game, Brown rotated a bevy of Notre Dame players, and the substitutes hardly missed a beat. Majenica Rupe intimidated Morehead State with her blocking and added two kills, while Julie Harris and Shannon Tuttle added one kill apiece. Coates led the team with five. Tuttle also set well after replacing Irish standout Janelle Karlan. 
Brown was pleased to cruise through a match after this past weekend's nail-biters against Louisville and Kentucky. 
"It's important to execute and maintain our concentration," Brown explained. "This was an opportunity to practice that. The substitutes also gained valuable match experience." 
IRISH NOTES: Jen Slosar's courageous comeback from a broken leg ended recently. The senior hoped to compete with the team after sitting out almost all of last year, but frequent playing proved too painful. Slosar will remain with the team but will no longer suit up. 
"We've met extensively with Monty, his parents and the doctors at the NIH. Monty wishes to return to playing basketball, and both the NIH and the University have cleared him to do so." 
HCM is a rare condition featuring a thickened muscle between the chambers of the heart. An echocardiogram re­vealed Williams' thickened muscle wall two years ago and additional tests and and specialists confirmed that diagnosis. 
After extensive testing of more than 700 patients, the NIH has shown that 
see MONTY/page1o 
Guerrero's two goals lead women•s soccer pastButler 
BY JONATHAN JENSEN Sports Wfiter 
lt was a ea$e Of youth triumphing over..,vvell; YPli!.Ul. .. .. . . .... .. 
The youthful'Qut exuberant '8th-. ranked Notr.e Dame women's soccer team, starting. a .younger lineup due to injuries, ovettame a scrappy Butler squad 3~ lin Indianapolis. 
The Bulldogs, vvho are starting just their seoond ye4:( of competition, return all 1l of last y~ar·s starters from a 10..7~ l team. So they are actually more experienced. than Jhe.·Irish, who, in. the absence 9f seni9f captain Margaret Jan~~ $enlor•.• Miebe!h~ J;;odyga, and ·Juntor ~t~pJ:1~9ie PPtl~·fv find. ihemselyes 

st!Uii11~ fiyefr~s!Uri.en. ··. · 
·•··.. But. it was ~~~ ot those freshmen Who• 
prov.lded the. a#al'k. last .nigh~, ~s neweq~er 1\o~lla. Guerrero had a hand in all oftheJ1'$b~$; scorhig. hitting on two .scores and a.sS~tirlg t>ri. another. 
JuniorAJiaoli Mster~• Notre Dame~s 
leading ~Q~r iJll990. oonverted a pass from Gnerrero five niliiutes into the first half to !five the hj~ their first lead of the 
game~. ••·.··.·· > •· . ... · 
From thettr Guerrer() took over; She scored tWo goals~ .onejust before the end or the half and her second just after the beginning af the second to eUneh the Irish's first victory of the year. 
Add these soores to her remarkable hat trick in Saturday's 4-3 lass to fifth­ranked North Carolina. State. and Guerrero has coptpiled an amazing 1l 

se$.IRISHtpage 10 








