.--------------------­
The Observer 
-~--­

VOL. XXV. NO. 14 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Clinton campaign targets young vote 
By MONICA YANT Editor-in-Chief 
For political strategists like Kate Fucher, campaign stops like Gov. Bill Clinton's tomorrow at Notre Dame represent opportunities to reach an important, historically "alienated" youth vote. 
"It's time to give American young people the opportunity to get involved in the political process. Their energies, their ideas, and their experiences need to be addressed," said Fucher, coordinator of campus visits in the Clinton/Gore headquarters in Little Rock, Ark. 
Fucher's role is typical of Clinton staffers working to get the saxophone-playing, MTV­watching governor elected in November. At college campuses across the country, workers are trying to galvanize support for the generation Fucher believes has been "overlooked" and made "cynical" by the Bush administration. 
But if Clinton has aimed at attracting younger voters, Bush has counterreacted by staying faithful to his faithful-if older-supporters, according to Robert Schmuhl, acting chair of American Studies. 

"Clearly, the 1992 race has a strong generational aspect/ Schmuhl said. "You see George Bush invoking the name of Harry Truman at every stop-in the hope that older Americans will see some of Truman in Bush." 
"Bill Clinton, on the other hand, is working as hard as he can to stress his youth -and the youthful presidency of John Kennedy," he added. 
But targetting the youth vote could be a gamble for Clinton, Schmuhl concedes: "Bush knows older Americans vote. Clinton can't be sure about younger ones." 
Historically, voter turnout among 18 to 24 year-olds is among the lowest. Since 1972, the number of young voters has decreased by more than one­fourth-to the point where only 
The Observer/ Adriana Rodriguez 

36 percent turned out for the 
Listen to the music 
1988 election. 
Junior Brian Muller of "Brian, Colin, and Vince" performs on a live see CLINTON I page 4 
acoustic show for the campus alternative radio station WVFI. 
Study: 30 million Americans suffer hunger 
BOSTON (AP) -About 30 million Americans who are poor or struggle to get by fail to eat enough food as hunger spreads beyond inner cities to the heartland, a report says. 
The research, prepared at the request of the Democratic chairman of the House Select Committee on Hunger, estimates hunger has grown by 50 percent since the rnid-1980s. 
"When we see increasing poverty and decreasing incomes, it's not at all surprising that hunger has increased," said J. Larry Brown, director of Tufts University's Center on Hunger, Poverty and Nutrition Policy. 
The increase in hunger also creates potential for more learning deficiencies among young children, more illness among the elderly and diminished productivity for 
workers, he said. 
In 1985, Brown led a national task force that warned that 20 million Americans suffered from hunger, defined as a condition where health is threatened because a person repeatedly doesn't consume enough nutrients. 
Brown said he has confidence in the updated figures because three different methods were used to calculate them, and each resulted in a total around 30 million. 
Brown said the profile of hunger has changed as the problem has grown. 
"The stereotype is that this is largely an inner city and minority problem," he said. "Those stereotypes no longer hold. "It's very dramatic to go into the Midwest and hold a malnourished child in your arms at a family farm. Hunger 

The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

Feed the hungry 
Walsh hall junior Terri Castellucci works at the Wednesday lunchfast booth in the South Dining Hall Wednesday. The program encourages students to give up their Wednesday lunch ticket with the proceeds going to feed the poor. 
is in America's breadbasket." 
Dr. Stephen Berman, a pediatrics professor and director of health policy at the University of Colorado, said families at high risk for hunger might have never experienced economic trouble before. 
"We have a situation where you have people who are unemployed or who go from a well-paying job to a minimum paying job," said Berman, who also served on the 1985 hunger task force sponsored by Harvard University. "It takes a while for them to understand the system to get food stamps or other supports." 
Betty Khanoyan, 33, a mother of four from Clinton in central Massachusetts, said she has been helped by the federal food supplement program for women, infants and children, known as WIC. 

Clinton visits NO tomorrow 
By PAUL PEARSON Associate News Editor 
Democratic presidential candidate Governor Bill Clinton will address the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community at 1 p.m. this Friday in Stepan Center. Doors will open at noon. 
Due to seating limitations, attendance at the event will be limited to ND/SMC students, faculty and staff. Admission will be on a first-come, first-served basis to those presenting valid ND/SMC I.D. cards. 
Notre Dame received word of Clinton's plan to visit about a week ago, according to Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security. "It's fairly normal to get seven to ten days notice for a campaign visit like this," Rakow said. 
Notre Dame Security is "helping coordinate" security for the event with South Bend, St Joseph County and Indiana State Police, as well as Secret Service members, according to Rakow. 
The security for Clinton's 
see VISIT I page 4 


ND graduate teaching program awarded grant 
By THERESA ALEMAN News Writer 
The Notre Dame graduate teaching program has been awarded an $80,000 grant by Burlington Resourses Foundation, according to Nathan Hatch, dean of the Notre Dame graduate school. 
Over the next four years, five students will receive $4,000 each year. Recipients of the grant money are senior graduate students currently working on their dissertations, according to Hatch. 
Grant recipients were selected for their academic excellence as well as past 
teaching experience, he said. 
All grant recipients will teach sections of Freshman Seminar, Hatch said. 
Though gr-aduate students are currently teaching sections of freshman seminar, Hatch believes that "the freshman program stands to be greatly enhanced through this program" by attracting the best graduate students with the most teaching experience. 
Hatch, who was on the board to select grant recipients last spring, added that the grant money was awarded to ND graduate students so that highly motivated students could "learn to teach well." 


Hurricane's toll: A boy named Andrew 
MIAMI (AP) -Andrew Guanche was laid to rest Wednesday in the calm after the hurricane for which he was named. 
He was born into poverty and took with him little: a pacifier and a hairbrush, placed alongside him in a tiny casket, 10 inches wide and 24 inches long. They were the first gifts he received in his short life. 
"Andrew! Andrew! Andrew!" his mother, Natalia, cried hysterically as she bent over his grave, running her hand across the casket, the last connection to her son. In Spanish, she screamed: "Why, God, why? You gave me this child only a few days. Why did you take him?" 
Natalia and Andrew's father, Felipe, each placed a chrysanthemum on the casket. 
And then Andrew was buried, in a cemetery surrounded by Hurricane Andrew's fury: piles of tree limbs, dirt, the debris of houses. Some of the trees in the cemetery itself were toppled. 
Both Andrews had lived short lives that touched all around them. 
Baby Andrew was 9 days old when he died. He slipped away, not in a horne surrounded by toys and pets, but in the coldness and loneliness of a Red Cross shelter, in a donated crib that suffocated him. 
He was the 39th death and, so far, last death in Florida blamed on Hurricane Andrew. The hurricane had hastened his birth, and then betrayed him. 
Buried with him was a piece of the American dream of his parents, who came to the United States 12 years ago from Cuba aboard the "Freedom Flotilla" boatlift. 
"I lost part of my life," said his father, a 48-year-old unemployed handyman. "It's a hard strike for us. We have lost all our happiness and strength. I am emotionally destroyed." 
He was the one who picked up the child from his crib, felt the coldness of his body and stared into a face that had turned blue. 
"I can't overcome that memory," he said. 
The funeral drew scant attention, a dozen relatives and friends. 
But to his father and mother and six brothers, baby Andrew was an omen of good fortune. He enriched their lives at a time when they had lost everything they had to Hurricane Andrew. 
Even in the finality of their son's death, they did not have any money to pay for his funeral or cemetery plot. The funeral horne donated both. 
"My dream was to come to the States," said Felipe, speaking through a translator. "And even if we were living among the poor people, we were happy." 
He said he saw his purpose in life as being more of a father than a husband, and Natalia, 41, was more of a mother than a wife. 

page 2 Thursday, September 10, 1992
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The grumpy
old man really


likes Bush 
I had this interesting conversation with this grumpy old man at the local watering hole the other day. 
"Can ya believe what the University has done now?" he asked me. 


Anything in particular, I Paul Pearson asked. 
Associate News 
"Inviting that pro-choice 
Editor

fruitcake Bill Clinton to come here. This shows -.::h:-:::o:-::-:w::-Th"'tr~tl'-'e--,v'""a:-1Ir:-:u:-:::e-N
10 D 

places on unborn human life." 
Hold on, there. Notre Dame invited both Bush 
and Clinton to come here. Bush simply hasn't 
said whether or not he'll come. 
"Yeah, but they probably told Bush he couldn't give a political speech or some garbage like that. Anyway, I'd have liked to see Bush. He's ·ust like Harry 'Give em Hell' Truman, ya know." 
He is trying to paint himself in Trumanesque colors, but frankly I don't see the resemblance. First of all, Bush voted against Truman. Secondly, Truman was a man of rigid principle. Bush hasn't met an issue he didn't reverse himself on. Remember the 'no n.ew taxes' thing? 
"Now, don't ya start blaming Bush for somethin' Congress did! Bush's whole 'Clean House' deal is about stuff like Congress raising taxes. Don't you remember anything from civics class, kid?" 
Wait a second. Bush's promise was to fight Congress, with vetoes if necessary, on stuff like tax increases. Also, about 90 Republicans members of Congress voted against Bush's last budget. Don't you read the papers, sir? 
"Nab. Then I run the danger of seeing one o your columns." Then you didn't read my last one about Bush and his 'family values' campaign. 
"Nope. But it was probably some trash about letting single women and gays run households. No wonder Dan Quayle is so upset at ya 'media elite!'" 
You're not fond of my writings, I take it. 
"Not one bit. Yer one of those flag-burning, fag-loving, draft-dodging liberal Democrats who've abandoned family values. I can tell from yer columns." 
Pardon me, sir, but I'm not a Democrat. I'm an independent (it cuts down on my junk mail). Heck, I'd vote Republican, if they nominated someone like Theodore Roosevelt, someone who really wants to change this country. 
"Hey, kid, ain't ya been paying attention? Bush is the real candidate for change. He says so all the time." 
Yeah, every time he sees. a negative poll, he responds with a change in his views. He was once pro-choice, you know. 
"Hey, at least MY candidate didn't have to blow a saxophone to get TV time." True. All Bush had to do was lose his lunch in the Japanese prime minister's lap to get on TV. "That's it, ya flaming liberal! Let's step outside!!" 
Calm down, sir. This is a 'kinder, gentler nation.' Remember? Anyway, I've finished my beer now, so I'll leave. Anything else you want to say, Mr. Bush-lover? 
"Yeah! Go Blue!!" 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obserz1er. 
Today's Staff 
News Alicia Reale Sarah Doran  Production Kathy Fong Cheryl Moser  
Sports Jon Gensen  Systems Jon Halloran  
Viewpoint Cheryl Moser  Lab Tech Macy Hueckel  
Accent  

Laurie Sessa Amy Hardgrove 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
FRONTS: 
COLO WARM STATIONARY 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
Judge removed from tobacco case 
PHILADELPHIA -A federal judge who has presided over cigarette-hazards lawsuits for the past decade has been removed from one case by an appeals court that said he had a possible bias. The 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals also overturned a February ruling by U.S. District Judge H. Lee Sarokin of Newark, N.J., who ordered confidential tobacco industry documents turned over to the plaintiff, a woman whose father died of lung cancer.The tobacco industry appealed, saying Sarokin was so prejudiced against it that a fair trial was impossible.The appeals court, in a unanimous opinion released Friday, said Sarokin may be capable of presiding over the case without bias, but "the appearance of impartiality will be served only if an 
fAU~ to another judge is made." 
NO alumnus to recieve award 
NOTRE DAME-James Douglass, ND alumnus and peace activist, will receive the 1992 Pax Christi USA 

OF INTEREST 
Disaster training classes will be held at the St. Joseph County Chapter for those persons interested in becoming Red Cross volunteers. Family Services will be held today from 1-5 p.m. at the chapter house on 3220 East Jefferson Boulevard in South Bend. 
NDCIBD fundraising division will meet at 7 p.m. tonight in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. New members are encouraged to find out more about the council's newest division. For more information, call Troy at 283-4070. 
Seniors majoring in Business (Finance, Management, and Marketing) are invited to their Placement Night tonight at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Representatives from General Mills, Goldman Sachs, and LaSalle National Bank will discuss opportunities in their representative industries as well as offer insights on interviewing. 
The Hispanic-American Organization will have its first meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. Any questions, contact Izzy (283­7721) or Anita (283-4231). 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY•s TRADING September 9 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 172,890,324 +0. 73 to 229.10 S&P COMPOSITE +1.92 to 416.36 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 

+10.80 to 3,271.39
UNCHANGED 594 

GOLD 
+.90 to $342.50 SILVEH 
+.08 to $3.711 

::::::::: 

© 1992 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Book Award for his book, "The Nonviolent Coming of God," Monday at 5 p.m. in Room 100 of the Center for Continuing Education. University Provost Timothy O'Meara will represent the University, which is co­sponsoring this year's award with Pax Christi USA. The award annually recognizes a book "which promotes Christ's peace, upholds the vision of Pax Christi USA, and offers a valuable contribution to the Catholic peace movement." Douglass, who received a master's degree from Notre Dame in 1962, was a visiting professor in the University's Program for the Study and Practice of Nonviolence during the 1969-70 academic year. 
SMC Professor dies 
NOTRE DAME-St. Mary's College Professor Mark Bambenek passed away early Wednesday morning. Bambenl:)k was a professor of Chemistry and Physics and past chairman of the Chemistry Department . He had suffered a stroke earlier in the summer. The funeral will take place later this week at St. Mary's. There will not be a visitation. 
Student Union Board is now accepting applications for the Director of Programming. Applications are available from the S.U.B. Secretary on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. The application deadline is Tuesday, September 15 at 5p.m. 
Student activities is seeking responsible, flexible students to work as part of the new LaFortune Building crew. Responsibilities include room set ups and breakdowns. Hours are varied-mainly weekends and evenings. Pay rate is $5.30/hr. Position reports to Assistant Director, Facilities. Pick up applications at Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. Deadline for applying is Wednesday, September 16. 
Troop Notre Dame organizational meeting scheduled for Thursday, September 10 at 9 p.m. at Room 219 Rockne has been moved to the Notre Dame Room on 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
International students on Notre Dame policy on 
U.S. Taxes: Due to a change in University procedures, Federal & State income taxes will be deducted from paychecks as of September 30, 1992. Professor Milani will explain on Thursday Sept. 10 at 4:15 p.m. or October 5 at 6:30p.m. in Hayes-Healy Room 122. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1963: Twenty black students entered public schools in Birmingham, Tuskegee and Mobile, Ala., following a standoff between federal authorities and Governor George Wallace. 

• 
In 1977: Convicted murderer Hamida Djandoubi, a Tunisian immigrant, became the last person to date to be executed by the guillotine in France. 

• 
In 1989: Hungary gave permission for thousands of East German refugees and visitors to emigrate to West Germany. 

• 
In 1990: Iraqi President Saddam Hussein offered free oil to developing nations in an attempt to circumvent a U.N. trade embargo 



Thursday, September 10, 1992 

Pumping iron 
"The art department has not,
Alumni Hall senior Paul Kaemmerer lifts weights yesterday in the 
to my knowledge, made the
Rockne Memorial. 


Yeltsin's trip postponed to resolve dispute 
MOSCOW (AP) -President Boris Yeltsin called off a trip to Japan on Wednesday in the face of growing pressure at home and abroad to resolve a dispute over four disputed Kuril islands seized by the Soviet Union in 1945. 
Many Russians had expressed fear that Yeltsin would surrender two of the four islands during his three-day 
trip in exchange for major signing a treaty formally ending relations with both theser------------------------......;jj states," the statement said. 
In Tokyo, Japanese officials expressed regret at Yeltsin's announcement. But Foreign Minister Michio Watanabe said: "We are taking this calmly." 




~ ..,BRUNO'S PIZZA 
"YOUR FULL SERVICE F\.ORISr 
Z, 
Made from scratch 

Clocktower Square (219)277--1291 51400 31 North Order 24 hrs 
i,~ fg~ Q Italian Pizza 


· ~ and Pasta .._.~ ~ j 
South Bend, IN 46637 a day 
Call for Reservations 

~_ft.­

Mention this ad and receive 
288-3320 

:~

10°/o off 
•Banquet Rooms Available• 
Not good for Valentine's Day 
GO ND!! BEAT MICHIGAN!! 


EL. ED. MAJORS MEETING MANDATORY 
For all current and new students of the department Thursday, September 17 6:00 --7:00 p.m. 
SMC Science Bldg. Room 105 St. Mary's 
The Observer page 3 

SMC works to redisplay sculpture 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Art Department said that they will continue to work towards l:aving Marcia Kaplan's outdoor sculpture returned to the campus grounds in a letter addressed to the entire SMC community. 
There is a "desire to have them (the sculptures) exhibited there and that's where it should be," said Doug Tyler, chairman of the art department. 
"It is very important to have her work returned to the lawn," Tyler continued. "There was an agreement reached and now what was agreed to is not being
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

done." 
economic assistance from World War II. Japan. Yeltsin's press office blamed 
Japan has insisted that the "a number of circumstances" dispute over the Kurils -for the indefinite postponement known in Tokyo as the Northern of the visit, which had been Territories -be settled before scheduled to begin Sunday. It it contributes large-scale aid to did not elaborate, but said Russia. Russia's foreign minister would 
The dispute has been the continue talks with Japan. 
major stumbling block in their relations and prevented the "The president's decision does Soviet Union and Japan from not affect good neighborly 
Support 



Fighting Irish Football 
and their drive to victory against 
Michigan 
Come to the 
Dillon Hall Pep Rally 
featuring guest speaker 

Lou Holtz 
Tonight at 6:30pm 
outside Dillon Hall 
request formally to have the sculptures returned to the Le Mans lawn,"said Dorothy Feigl, vice president and dean of faculty. 
One of the four outdoor exhibits was damaged either the evening of Aug. 27 or the early morning of Aug. 28. After the damage was incurred "The administration contacted a member of the Art Department and insisted that the works be removed from the exhibition site, both to protect them from further damage and because they questioned their suitability for exhibition at Saint Mary's College," the letter also said. 
The letter continued by stating that in "the opinion of the Art Department these works are fully appropriate for public exhibition and display at Saint Mary's College." 


Justice Department clears some in check scandal 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Justice Department on Wednesday began clearing an unspecified number of lawmakers of criminal wrongdoing in an investigation of the scandal-plagued House bank. 
But the preliminary inquiry of thousands of overdrafts will leave some members under a legal cloud through Election Day. 
"On the evidence we have reviewed, I have concluded that there is no basis for pursuing a further inquiry regarding possible criminal violations 

Feigl that their has been no formal communication between her and the art department, but the artist, Kaplan, has said the sculptures were best displayed on the grounds where they were originally intended to be. 
The issue is more complex now that the community is involved, said Feigl. 
Tyler said an emergency meeting of the Faculty Assembly was called for Sept. 17 to discuss the issue, but Feigl said that she knew of a regular meeting of the Faculty Assembly next week, but does not recall seeing discussion of the issue on the agenda, although it could be a special topic. 
"We will continue to try to remedy the situation so that the artist is satisfied with the display," said Tyler. 
concerning your account," special counsel Malcolm Wilkey told individual House members in hand-delivered letters Wednesday. 
Within hours, 58 members said they had received the letter. 
Among those cleared were Speaker Thomas Foley, D­Wash., who had two overdrafts, and Minority Whip Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., who had 22. 
House Minority Leader Robert Michel, R-Ill., had no overdrafts. 
The Justice Department would not say how many House members were being cleared in the initial batch of letters, expected to be delivered over the next few days, or how many will face a continuing review. 
But a department statement said it was Wilkey's "firm expectation that the vast majority of members and former members under review will receive clearance letters." 
Wilkey's letter to members said future notification letters will be sent "as soon as we have satisfied ourselves that the records do not disclose any conduct which would warrant further inquiry." 
He wrote that the notifications received now "should not imply that members not yet notified will not in the future receive a letter similar to this." 
Rep. William Thomas, R­Calif., who had 119 bad checks and did not receive a letter, said, "I assume they're going through the stack and doing the easy things first. Some will take longer. I imagine it will go on all fall. It's not politically bad so long as the media report it correctly." 
Foley, in a statement on behalf of the House Democratic leadership, said it "has always been evident to us" that "no member has violated any law in this matter." 
~-----­
. -· -··-··-··-··! New for '92 
Play like a Champion Today 

:Spirit Towelsi 
Catch the sp1rrt and own a poece ol history ' e same trne. A M.JST have otem' 
, To get yrurs just cmtact any rrmter of 
· S. A. R. G. o.'~~h~ Student Alurmt Relthons Group J'~~ ! 
~ Also available at the Oo ! Alumni Office-Main Building · 
~-" 
--~-­

page 4 The Observer Thursday, September 10, 1992 


Visit 
continued from page 1 

speech does not create any special problems for Rakow's staff. "The only difference" between this weekend and a normal football weekend "is 
that  we  will  have  people  
working  one  extra  day  of  
overtime," Rakow said.  

An advance team has been at Notre Dame for the past four days preparing for the event, according to Ethan Zindler, assistant press secretary at the 

Clinton 
continued from page 1 

But the disinterested youth were not alone: Voter turnout among 25 to 44 year-olds also plummeted, from 63 percent in 1972 to 54 percent in 1988. 
The importance of age in 1992, however, is obvious. A youthful ticket attracting a youthful audience is what Clinton's assistant press secretary Ethan Zindler will fuel a November victory. 
"As we get closer to the election, it's really starting to pick up -people are going from 'I hate George Bush' to 'I really like Bill Clinton,"' Zindler said. That some of Clinton's strongest supporters are in the 18 to 30 year-old group can be credited to the Democrats' "willingness to speak out on the issues that are of concern to younger people," he said. 
Notre Dame's Wesley Kirkpatrick is listening. The graduate student in philosophy who likens Clinton to Franklin Roosevelt is coordinating the campaign's efforts at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Friday's visit is "just the 
We're Making a Difference. 

Clinton/Gore campaign headquarters in Little Rock, Ark. 
Zindler compared the advance team's job to preparing a place for a rock concert. "You basically have to make sure the sound system and everything works." Most of the details of Clinton's visit are still being worked out between Clinton's team and University officials. 
At visits like these, Clinton enjoys staying after the speech to shake people's hands, Zindler said. "He really enjoys the personal contact." 
Local student is arrested for bank robbery 
ELKHART. Ind. (AP) -A Chinese student allegedly robbed a bank and made his getaway on a bicycle, only to be arrested minutes later a block from police headquarters, authorities said Wednesday. 
Police identified the suspect as Zhao Wenle, 19, of Shanghai, who had studied biology at Goshen College last 

Fieldhouse Moll ol f'<D (By Loforlune) 
American Heart 

Association 

Refreshmen Is Provided!! 
If you missed oclivilies niqhl-il' s nolloo lole lo join!! 
You Are Invited to consider Sacramental Preparation 


Baptism Full Communion Confirmation 
in the Catholic Church 

FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE COME ... 
§~&~~~~~~ffili~ 
N®~~ IID~cs ffi~!rnl~ J1IDWcm~<a 
Baptism For unbaptized people interested in joining the Catholic Church 
Full Communion For baptized Christians interested in Full Communion in the Catholic tradition 
Confirmation For Catholics interested in receiving the sacrament of Confirmation 
Questions? can or visit Campus Ministry Badin Hall Office 239-5242 

ln Quayle _.-the country was "tecbnicaUy out ofi .the recession;~· but W:adaed, 
"C~liforni~:~:;.unJo~tu~~~~~~;has 
umque pro~lems •. l@' • • i .... nearly 2;000 people ~t ~ rally . The Golden State's pro~leJ1l!l :If, in Upland; Calif. "Bill Clinton mclude defense '''industry '·knows less about national 
cutbacks triggered by the ~nd of the ~?J~. War that have helped<)i~\iJ';push.i<~. 
unetpployD1eP:t rate b 

almost :tO percent a .·•·... ·· t President. Busb laggiq!J f~r behind B1ll Clinton in the pons~ w 
But Quayle warned ·•Bill Clinton will cut an $60 bi!Uon out pf. wbicb ll)(:la~s an:.· ·.· tens ofthousands · 
__ _-Clinton for_ his _ . in Connecticut on Tuesday confusing the Patriot missile with the so-called smart, laser-guided weapons that scored dramatic hits·in .BagJtdad. dl)ring,the~ershtn 
ul£War. The Patriot was the defensive+ weap.lnt¥i that intercepted Iraqi Scuds. 
"Governor, you ;J/ have confused the Patriot with the .Cruis~ ~issiJe," Quayl~ told 
security than I do ·about spelling/' 
.Quayl~ exuded confidence abo"l.lt the chances for ~Alome~ from~b(lhind victory· "in CaHfotnia. "I talked to the master today, Ronald Reagan, and he looked me right in the eye and he said, 'Look, l know 
what  ··  polls say. bttt you can  
California going for  
·  <  ...•.  ;'"he said.·  ·  







HAppy 
You 1RE So lAryl 

Come to the first social event for the 
BiRTHdAy IRCLE K 

DiANE! 
LovE,



CLUBS 
T~E REST 

of Saini M01'41sand Noire Dame 
of T~E TuNNEl 

Thursday, September 10, 6:30-8:00 p.m. 
SUBWAY's New Six Foot Combo Special is a delicious combination of ham, bologna and salami*, plus generous portions f cheese, lettuce and tomato, all on our own freshly baked bread. This akes it a welcome change from the usual Pizza, Chicken and Burgers. 
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE: 
We're so sure that you and your group will love the Six Foot Combo Special,that we will refund your money ifyou are not completely satisfied. 
Great for Tailgate and After-Game Parties! 
For more infonnation, call the SUBWAY location nearest you: 
SR 23 & lronwood/277-7744 
US 31 N. (North Village Mall)/277-1024 
115 W. Washington (Downtown)/289-1288 


beginning of the symphony" for Kirkpatrick and other Clinton supporters whose intent is to "rebuild the Democratic movement at Notre Dame." 
Although statistics and poll results vary on an almost daily basis, an August survey conducted by MTV showed Clinton leading Bush 57 to 33 percent among 18 to 29 year­aids -although the same poll showed Bush with a 51 percent favorable reading among the voters surveyed. 
Zindler wants to keep young people interested in Clinton, and is working with students on campuses across the country to plan college visits and voter registration drives. 
"Young people are as adamant as any group in terms of wanting to keep the campaign focused on the issues," he said. "They know what's important this year and they're not going to be distracted." 

year. 
"No formal charges have been filed yet," said Elkhart County Prosecutor Michael Cosentino. 
Zhao was being held at the Elkhart County Jail in Goshen 
pending  an  initial  court  
appearance.  
Police  were  called  to  the  

Midwest Commerce Bank at Easy Shopping Place shortly before 3 p.m. Tuesday after an Asian man wearing sunglasses presented a teller with a note demanding money. The man was not armed, police said. He fled by bicycle in heavy traffic just as police day shift patrols were returning to headquarters, said police spokesman John Clark. 
"Officers cordoned off the area, conducted a search and found him a few blocks from scene," Clark said. 
Zhao was carrying money taken from the bank, he said. 

.------------------~---------~----­





Business 
page 5 


Pizza wars heat up on campus 
By DANA ANDERSON Patton, said, "We weren't really two-for-Tuesday deal (two 
Business Writer trying to increase the sales of · pieces of pizza & regular drink our pizza with this promotion. for two dollars). In addition, We personally wanted to help the Leprechaun Pizza Company 
Convenience and cost are the out the hurricane victims. now honors and accepts any 
two factors that area pizza When the student group came competitors' coupons. chains must deal with in order to us with the idea, we agreed Senior Huddle manager to get ND and SMC students' to participate because we felt Larry Schaack said," When business. Currently, the cam­we'd be able to donate a lot competitors advertise, we feel pus is being flooded with news­since we do so many on-campus pressured to compete with their paper ads, coupons in the mail, deliveries'." specials. In addition, there also 
and other special promotions However, Papa John's also is a segment of the eatingfrom pizza places competing for tries to be receptive to students' population that will not be students' business. It seems a budget needs by offering a late interested in a product unless pizza war has started on night special and an ND touch­there are special deals available campus. down special during football to them." 
Pizza Hut manager Larry games, in which the first ten The Leprechaun Pizza Com­Radabaugh defended the pro­callers after ND scores a touch­pany has a slight advantagemotions. "Each year it is a new down to say the new score of over its competitors. Because it story all together, especially the game receive a buy-one-get­is a self-supporting auxiliary of with a new class and transfer one-free pizza deal. the university, it has to make students arriving on campus. "The Notre Dame community just enough revenue to cover its We must establish our name, has really accepted us, expenses and turn in minimal appeal, and convenience all especially since last year was profit to the university, whereas over with the students. It's im­our first year in the South Bend its competitors are in the 
AP File Photo portant to be the first to make area. We want to help the stu­business solely for maximizingFormer Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, here pictured with James an impression in a student's dents whenever we can. If their profits.Baker, proposed the building of new settlements in occupied Arab mind. We have to try to battle something is at all feasible for Schaack also said he expectsterritories. New Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin was promised loan through all the competitors to us, we will do it for the stu­that within the pizza market, guarantees for Israel from President Bush last month. do this, which is where the dents," said Patton. the trend will be to continue 
need for special promotions Domino's is another area with promotions and coupons. comes in," he said. pizza chain doing its best to His competitors agree. 
Bush pledges U.S. loan 
In order to make this im­make the students happy, even "College students don't justpression, Pizza Hut has two dif­in unusual circumstances. On brand buy, they go for what ferent promotions. The first is a Sept. 2, when the sophomores they can pay for. Our business

package to help Israel 
full-page ad on the back of the camped out for football tickets, from them is the result of spe­
WASHINGTON (AP) -A the former Soviet Union. Daily Shillelagh. The other a Domino's pizza man came by, cial prices or deals. It is more package of U.S. loan guarantees Bush rejected Israel's request promotion consisted of packets offering a large pepperoni pizza important generally to the stu­for Israel seems headed for for the guarantees while previ­distributed to students with a for five dollars to all those dents that they buy a conve­approval in Congress, resolving ous Prime Minister Yitzhak message board and coupons. camping out. He returned nient and cheap pizza, instead a dispute that badly soured Shamir promoted the building "The response from the thirty minutes later, amid heavy of a certain brand of pizza ev­relations between the two of new settlements in occupied message board promotion has thunder, lightning, and an ery time," said Radabaugh. countries. Arab territories. His approval gone through the roof. I'm sure incredible downpour with his Even with all these competi­
The Senate Appropriations came after Israel's new leader, if we did not have that going, arms full of pizza. tive prices, none of the major foreign aid subcommittee is ex­Yitzhak Rabin, announced he the awareness of Pizza Hut In addition, Domino's always pizza chains should suffer much pected to act on the five-year, was limiting future settlements. would not be as high," said offers a late night and a Fightin' loss, or have a need to scale $10 billion package next week "Yes, we're in tough economic Radabaugh. Irish special. Also, they will be back their business. as part of its 1993 foreign aid times in this country, but don't Another campus favorite, doing a direct mailing of coupon "There is plenty of business bill. Agreement in the House let any member of Congress tell Papa John's, floods the campus books worth $10 to students. for everyone,"said Radabaugh. and final passage are expected you that we can't afford to do with ads almost daily. Papa Assistant manager Brandi "Remember, we also serve the well before Congress adjourns this," Bush said in a speech to John's tries to be receptive to Johnson said, "We are doing as city of South Bend besides just for the year in October. the international convention of the students by participating in much as we can to keep the the Notre Dame campus. If a 
President Bush, in a speech to B'nai B'rith. "We can, and we campus sponsorships and spe­students, our customers, happy. business just wants to meet sta­a Jewish service organization must." cial offers for SYRs, the Fisher If we did not offer any specials, tus quo, it doesn't need campus on Tuesday, renewed his Congressional and adminis­Regatta, SUB giveaways, and the students would not buy business. However, if they are promise to ask Congress for up tration sources said that sig­other groups. Last week for pizza." looking to build their business to $10 billion in guarantees. naled the administration had three days they offered to do­On campus, the Leprechaun and expand profit, which is Israel wants to use the money resolved the problem of how nate one dollar for every pizza Pizza Company, located in The after all the purpose of being in to build housing and provide much to set aside to cover the ordered on campus to the Hur­Huddle, is offering two separate business, then it is wise to be­jobs for an influx of Jewish risks associated with the guar­ricane Andrew victims. · deals. Back again from last year come involved with the student immigrants, most of them from antees, and who should pay it. Papa John's owner, Alison due to popular demand is the market." 
Senators lash out at Bush over trade pact 

Ttt•~66 --pleact"guilty to 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Demo­
None of the committee Re­cratic senators signaled Tues­publicans defended Bush by day to U.S. Trade Representa­name. Only Sen. John Danforth 
food stamp fraud 
tive Carla Hills their anger over addressed the Democrats' ire. 
-Three months," Rush said. 
the Bush administration's use of "It should be debated in con­The Agriculture Department
the proposed North American nection with an election year," · to spend some $18 bil·Free Trade Agreement on the said Danforth, R-Mo., citing the food stamp·. be;nefitscampaign trail. treaty's impact both nationally 
year, which ends

"What I've seen over the last and in the world economy. 
More than 25 Jllil)ion

two weeks isn't responsible -"I have absolutely no qualms -'-one in 10 Americans
it's pure politics and the admin'­on that score at all." 
receive food stamps, More

istration knows it," Sen. Lloyd Baucus also contended that than 220.000 retailers accept
Bentsen, D-Texas, told Hills American negotiators rushed fo stamps from customers
during an appearance before conclusion of the pact to coin­
then redeem them at

the Senate Finance Committee. cide with the Republican Na­
cash.

"Politicizing this agreement Lloyd Bentsen tional Convention, which began case involved olli· 
will not help its prospects in five days after a deal was an­
rbert Whole$ale

Congress," cautioned Bentsen, "No responsible person nounced. 
gaily _ oe_~-~&<lie, . , also known as
who chairs the committee. should make a decision that But Hills rejected that claim. 
1990 · illegally 1-lVJteats Inc.
Congressional Democrats quickly on an agreement of this "There was no rush here at 
redeemed than $12.8 Company chairman David
have been irked by President complexity and this magnitude all," she replied. 
millionin ff)Qd stamps, the Garced and his brother, com·
Bush's repeated free trade-re­-and no one should respon­The hearing kicked off con­government said; pany treasurer Norbertlated attacks on Democratic ri­sibly expect it," Bentsen said. gressional scrutiny of the The case· dwarfs what had Ga:rced, pleaded guilty in U.S.
val Bill Clinton. Bush has Montana Democratic Sen. agreement, which won't be 
been US_ largest food District Court for the Eastern
stepped up his claims in recent Max Baucus also defended considered by Congress before stamp fraud ~-·a Tq:ledo; · ict of New York to felonyweeks that the Arkansas gov­Clinton. next year. 
Ohio, gro<:-Icted -in ..... arges of food stamp fraud,ernor is straddling the fence on "For President Bush to sug­The 1,078-page document 
January of.i redeeming the department said. Their
the trade pact. gest that Gov. Clinton or any of released Tuesday, which goes $7.2 millioninf(.J(.Jd stamps. nephew, company presidentClinton has said he favors the us in this Congress should en­with a companion 900-page Jeff Rush, USDA deputy Jose Vasquez, pleaded guilty toconcept of free trade with Mex­dorse a treaty which we have tariff schedule issued last week, assistant inspector general. a misdemeanor charge of foodico, but wants to make sure en­not had the opportunity to re­chronicles in minute detail how said others d of stamp fraud.
vironmental and labor stan­view would be the height of ir­the trade pact would affect the dards are addressed before responsibility," said Baucus, flow of thousands of products, endorsing an agreement. who chairs the international services and investment. 
Bentsen noted that a conclu­trade subcommittee. The document lays out tariff sion to the treaty, which was Hills' recent appearances in phaseouts in all three countries 
program for their

made public Tuesday, was only Texas and other states on be­and limits on the movement of a company andreached Aug. 12. The 2,000-half of the Bush-Quayle cam­wide gamut of items ranging grocery store inpage text underwent revision paign also have been viewed from television picture tubes to until recently, he added. with disfavor. automobiles and farm produce. 
page6 The Observer Thursday, September 1 0, 1992 



Dear Members of the Notre Dame Community, 
During the past academic year a small subcommittee of the working group on Missions, Opportunity, and Challenges (MOC) of the Colloquy for the Year 2000 drafted a mission statement for the University. We discussed this draft with the members of the MOC group of which we are a part and with the Committee for the Whole of the Colloquy. We now feel ready to share that draft with the larger Notre Dame community for your comments, suggestions and emendations. 
I o the left of the mission statement we have added a "Prenote" which sets out the theological understanding that undergirds the mission statement itself. That "Prenote" intends to express our understanding of the word Catholic which is pan of our self-understanding of Notre Dame as a national Catholic university. It is not the mission statement but the context out of which the mission statement arises. 
Our purpose in publishing this draft in the Observer is simple: we invite students, staff and faculty to help us produce a final statement of mission and purpose that will be part of the final document produced by the colloquy. We would invite you to communicate any reactions you may have to any member of the subcommittee whose name is listed below. We would like such responses before the end of September. 
Gregory Burrus (Student Body President) Lawrence Cunningham (Professor: Theology) Carol Ann Mooney (Professor: Law School} Thomas F. O'Meara, O.P. (Warren Professor: Theology) Mark Poorman, C.S.C. (Assistant Professor: Theology) Kathleen Maas Weigert (Academic Coordinator: Center for Social Concerns) 
PRENOTE: THE CONTEXT OF THE MISSION 
The following statement of purpose and definition will speak of the University of Notre Dame as aplace of teaching and research, of scholarship and publication, of service and community. These components follow quite naturally from certain distinctive characteristics ofCatholicism. The first is sacramentality. The Catholic vision encounters God in all things ­people, events, the world at large, the whole cosmos. It is in and through the visible world and our endeavors within it that we come to know and experience the invisible God. The second is mediation. The Catholic vision perceives God to be not only present in, but also working through persons, events and material things. The Catholic believes there is an 
THE MISSION STATEMENT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 


he University of Notre Dame is a Catholic academic community of higher learning, animated in a special way from its origins by the Congregation of Holy 
L_______J 

Cross and dedicated to the communal pursuit and sharing of truth. This University exists that through free inquiry and open discussion the variant lines of Catholic thought might intersect with all the forms of knowledge found in the arts, sciences and 
professions. This University is Catholic in its deliberate determination to render to the Church and to the world this unique service in Christian wisdom. 
This purpose is concretely realized in the intellectual interchange that constitutes the life of the University, the development of its students and faculty, and the advancement of knowledge through distinguished teaching, research, scholarship, publication and service. 
Therefore, the University of Notre Dame essentially includes within itself the presence, the voices, and the contributions of diverse scholars and students, both those who represent the Catholic intellectual heritage and those from other traditions. The diversity of Notre Dame is further enhanced by the presence of different races and ages, nationalities and genders. This pluralism enables and enriches the exchange that forms the University community. The continuing presence of a predominant number of Catholic intellectuals is crucial for the Catholic identity of the University. What is asked of all scholars and students, however, is not a particular creedal affiliation, but a respect for the objectives of Notre Dame and a willingness to enter into the conversation that gives it life and character. The University, consequently; insists upon that academic freedom which makes this open discussion and inquiry possible. 
The University fosters the development in its undergraduate students of those disciplined habits of mind which are inculcated by : the liberal arts and which characterize educated, free human beings. Such skills are: to read with critical understanding; to think and express oneself with clarity and coherence in speech and writing; to frame problems of theoretical inquiry or practical action with a sense of the relevant evidence, historical context, and procedures appropriate 
--------~~-------------. 
Thursday, September 10, 1992 The Observer page 7 
intelligibility or coherence to all reality, discoverable through the mind and the imagination, and through the sciences which give shape and discipline to both. The Catholic further believes that all human activity is called into collaboration by God to bring this world to its completion. The third is communion. The Catholic vision sees the way to God and Gods way to us as communal, not individualistic, and that the consummation of the world lies in a communion of persons. That is why the Church as a community has had such a significant role in Catholicism, and why Notre Dame has always conceived ofitselfas afamily and has fostered familial bonds at every level of its institutional life. 
These three characteristics find their source and 
reality in jesus Christ, the incarnation ofthe 
divine in the human. He is the sacrament of 
divine presenceamong us. He is the mediator 
who manifests Gods love to humanity and who 
teaches the way to salvation. He is the Lord 
who formed a new kind ofcommunity to preach 
the coming of the Kingdom. A Catholic university, then, draws its basic inspiration from jesus Christ as the source of wisdom and its mission from the conviction that all things can be brought into their completion in Christ. 
As the University draws its inspiration from jesus Christ, it understands the imperative for higher education to be heightened by critical developments that have made of this planet one world. Religious and cultural, technological and environmental, economic and political challenges make up that world. Free women and men and the communities they form will direct this world into its next millenium. The shape it takes will reflect their knowledge, their skills and their commitments -in a word, their education. 
for a reasonable resolution; to possess an understanding of quantitative thinking and scientific method; to comprehend something of the great discoveries of science and technology as well of their contemporary promise; to think in a manner that is both insightful and creative and to recognize this in others; to analyze issues philosophically back to their fundamental presuppositions; to grasp the significance of Gods self­revelation in jesus Christ and to apprehend the theological implications of knowledge gained in other disciplines as these relate to the great questions of human existence. 

ogether with these liberal capacities of mind, the 
University cultivates in all its students a humane 
sensitivity both to human accomplishment and to 
human misery: an appreciation of such great achievements of human beings as are found in art and literature, history and sociology, mathematics, technology and science; a disciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice and oppression that burden the lives of so many of their fellow human beings. Such a sense of human solidarity and a developed concern for the common good reaches its fulfillment as learning becomes service to justice. 
As a research university, Notre Dame takes the responsibility not only for the diffusion of knowledge through the academic formation of its undergraduates, but also for the advancement of knowledge in a search for truth through original inquiry and publication. This objective particularly engages the faculty and the various divisions of the graduate program, but also its professional schools and special institutes. As a university committed to public service, Notre Dame sponsors professional schools that equip their students for a particular career with the skills and disciplines proper to each. The University also sponsors special institutes whose focus is research and science on pressing contemporary social issues. The graduate programs, the professional schools and these special institutes, aided by the general ethos of the university, also foster in their students those intellectual habits and humane sensibilities that the University expects from all its graduates. 
The Catholic character of Notre Dame as an academic community depends upon the seriousness with which the religious dimensions of all human learning are recognized, given priority, and explored throughout the University. 
The University embodies its deep concern for the religious and moral education of the students not only in the academic reflection brought to bear upon ethical and social issues but also in its encouragement of a manner of life consonant with a Christian community. Residential life contributes significantly to develop in the students that sense of community and of responsibility which prepares them for subsequent leadership in building a society that is at once more human and more divine. As a Catholic community, liturgy and retreats, spiritual direction, volunteer work and the continual promotion of service, permeate the life of the University and contribute to the complete education of the human person. 
In all of these dimensions of the University, Notre Dame pursues its objectives through the formation of an authentic human community graced by the Spirit of Christ. 


r---------------------------­
page 8 




The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ............ , ......... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
Thursday, September 10, 1992 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Controversy surrounding Kaplan's sculpture contributes to its purpose 
Dear Editor, 

I was pleased to read in The Observer (Sept. 7) that Marcia Kaplan's sculpture, previously displayed in front of LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's, has sparked controversy and debate concerning both the piece as well as the role of art today. 
In lH·r Tw_;,• r .. lu;•,n. \. "· :.larle laLu1 uuJ he1 fri~.:11J concluded that the sculpture "must be some kind of revolting joke," and they insist that it "didn't give us anything to ponder about our bodies that we haven't been forced to before." 
Perhaps they didn't ponder further about their anatomy, but it is obvious that the sculp­ture prompted a strong reac­tion, an intelligent conversation, and subsequent thought which Tabor felt strongly enough about to share with all students and faculty. 
These are precisely some of the goals many artists strive toward with their work. And many women artists today, such as Cindy Sherman and Laurie Simmons, choose to work with the exact same issues of the exploitation and subjugation of women that Kaplan apparently addresses. 
Their art, and perhaps Ka­plan's art, does not endorse traditional ways of viewing women, as Tabor suggests. Rather, through their work, they attack society's way of thinking, with the hope of prompting debate and instigat­ing changes. 
Less specifically, a function of 
DOONESBURY 

modern art is to open the senses and the mind to new and different ways of experiencing and thinking, not only about art, but about the world around us. Tabor wished for a warning and an explanation of the work before she experienced it. 
However, I must agree with Ki!.pl··" "1 •., ]J,,,. "" rJ, .. ;, .. t" ::OjJlJli uul lwl iulellllUil::O. nw viewer must interpret the work for himself or herself, and then use the experience and the knowledge gained for his or her own purposes. What use do we have for a work which has been explained and untangled for us? 
The manner in which the piece was abruptly presented allowed each person to ap­proach the sculpture without previously formed expectations, and thus they were free to react in their own individual way. 
In the article, Tabor agrees with Prof. Schlesinger's definition of art as "a beautiful creation." But I have to agree with the recently deceased American avant-guard com­poser John Cage, who said, "left to itself, art would have to be something very simple-it would be sufficient for it to be beautiful. But when it's useful it should spill out of just being beautiful and move over to other aspects of life so that when we're not with the art it has nevertheless influenced our actions or our responses to the environment." 
Tabor also suggests that the sculpture be placed in Moreau 



Viewpoint 

Gallery, "where most art ap­pears." This, she claims, would have lead to a better reception of the piece. Its placement in a gallery, I'm afraid, would have lead to a reception with little or no debate, and the fullest potential of the work would not have been served. 
Tlw "1'1"'.'" .,.,.1 '" ·.,,. f...,•. 
~.,uuwwuale · a1l.i::.l::. "" iw.J1 1a­bor speaks of are no longer limited to galleries and muse­
ums. Many modern artists, from Duchamp in the early part of the century to Christo in the present, have worked to shorten the gap between art and life by bringing art into the everyday environment. 
To quote Cage again, "The changes that have taken place in this century are such that art is not an escape from life, but rather an introduction to it." The hushed observation of art in a museum, entered by a pa­tron full of expectations and pre-conceived ideas, no longer allows art to fulfill its complex new roles in an equally complex modern society. 
Although the entire situation surrounding Kaplan's sculpture seems to Tabor to be a disaster, my understanding of modern art brings me to see the initial installation as a phenomenal success. I am happy to read that Ms. Kaplan seems to be ·or a similar opinion, even in light of the physical damage. 
Douglas J. Klostermann Off-campus Sept. 8, 1992 

Thursday's Verse 
WhBn a Liturgist Dies 
(In Memoriam Dr. Mark Searle,+ 16 August 1992) 
terrestrials land, Celestials leave. 
lente, lente currite equi noctis ! 
Couples meet and match and hatch; while rituals the dead dispatch. and life endures in spire and pew. 
BUT. .. 
When a liturgist hies, a liturgist flies, liturgist dies, 

tllid•.t liturgisls' sighs 
we gnash our ordinary Ordines We beat our breviaries with our breasts. 
we seize our sacramental guests re-living re-vised in-clusive in-cultural 
abc's Abluting Burning Consecrating 
DEATH! A mudpied Mass Upon the sting purloins a passion's purpled cue. Mass shuddering beneath the albs of faithless thought imbue 
Wonder for the wonder? Or thoughtless faith, its mime begins mouthing the mirabile, of faithless the ecce... 
MEMENTO HOMO---MEMENTO MORI. 
Souvenez-vous o dieux: my cocktail, not yet ... Now plant the dead with dirt and dirge. Return to table, drink and purge the doubt once more to deep recess; and dust off toward the next process. 
By Craig B. McKee 

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
Send your unpublished poem to: 
Thursday's Verse 
P.O. Box Q, ND, IN, 46556 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Tradition can become repetition when you end up holding onto something because you're afraid to let it go.' 
David Leavitt 

Wars were waged for the right to submit: QUOTES, PO. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
MYFAMIL-Y t<A/5WM& RJGHT­£;t.801J.J5 OFF 7H8 TA!3U3, 
lOTS OF ?HANK-YOU N0785 70 
JH& GRANI?PAR£N75, JWI/A!3­
50WTEJ..Y ORJ.JG5, 13XCEPT 7088 
f?JUT&. 




Accent 
Thursday, September 10, 1992 page 9 

Aquestion of faith 
In his novel, 'An Occasion ofSin, ' Father Greeley addresses many controversial issues regarding the Catholic church 
The answers to these and a

By JIM MALLOY 
few other questions determine whether John McGlynn will be Anyone with conservative 
Literary Critic 
disgraced or elevated to opinions about religion, the 

An Occasion of Sin 

sainthood. church, and the role of the 
The Vatican contacts the clergy should avoid Father 
Archdiocese of Chicago and Greeley's novel, "An Occasion of 
Written by Andrew Greeley, 

arranges for an investigation to
published by Jove Books, 

determine if there are any
Sin." 
-
New York 

obstades to McGlynn's Catholicism, the Catholic 
Father Greeley's treatment of canonization. The Archdiocese
323 pp 

appoints Father Laurence his novel is very controversial. 
church, and the priesthood in 
$5.99 

McCauliffe, a man who knew However, his ideas are 
the Cardinal since the innovative, provocative, and 
Seminary. McCauliffe regards fascinating. 
"Jumping" Johnny McGlynn asmedical science cannot explain. 
a superficial show-off and,One cure occurs after 
Greeley's characters are fully more succinctly, "a son of a
McGlynn's pectoral cross is 

human, both laity and clergy, bitch."
placed on the child, the other 

and his concept of God is that of when a young child touches the 
a God of Love who sometimes McCauliffe's investigation is a
Cardinal's tombstone. 

llHi draws straight with crooked fascinating journey into the
Are they miracles? The

._,inlin$! ·lines. heart of clerical politics,
Vatican wants to know. If they 
•'

'~·~~ In "An Occasion of Sin," mysticism, and the life of a
are, Cardinal McGlynn may very 'i'llld Greeley justifiably treats as well be canonized a saint. Cardinal who, towards the end h;, !IW ludicrous the notion that men of his life, would write "Who 
,,,,;, \illl,l<, 

cease to be men once they are are You? What do You want?
Before making its decision,

i I \.11 ,, adorned with the Roman collar. the Vatican wants to find out Why have You intruded into my Hi·-..!;,t·ll.in.~;; That they obviously do not life? Why don't You leave me
the answers to a few questions. \HihHI J;f would seem to be a truism, yet In his dying utterance, was the alone? I am not worth Your 
11 H'JiS I'H this is the source of most of the trouble."
Cardinal addressing God or 1\IN controversy surrounding Marybeth? After all, rumors 
Greeley's work. Greeley is a fine storyteller.
followed them throughout their 

He writes with style and
lives, even to the point of
lmn.. 

In his most controversial work spP~1111!tinP" l'ls tn whPthPr thP generates suspense until the .td. : . ,·harl'lr~t·•··
t1 r· .I • t : • ·: ~ t' Ip \'. . ; ·. 

'14 :;: 'JJ,., .. .l·w·;·,. ·'t,·:·. . : · Cardinal McGlynn of the ask themselves questions which 
·.··I·····~ in fact the cure of McGlynn's
. .. !: .. •;i 

Archdiocese of Chicago, is shot own grandson. we seek answers for every day by rebels in Central America of our lives. while on assignment. Cardinal The work of Greeley offers
Furthermore, did Cardinal 

iii, McGlynn dies in the arms of his McGlynn even believe in God? answers to some of these w f!l· lifelong friend Marybeth, troubling questions. Is it
Even McGlynn's most staunch 

I 
whispering, "God, how I love possible for an occasion of sindefenders grudgingly admit that 
you." to be an occasion of grace as
the Cardinal believed in the 

Shortly thereafter, two well? As McCauliffe says in the 
existence of God only some of 

children, one of them last pages of "An Occasion of
the time. Yet, never once did 

' 
In his controversial novel, "An Occasion of Sin," Andrew Greeley Marybeth's grandson, are cured Sin," "'That, I think, is the
McGlynn doubt that he was 

addresses questions of religion, the church, and the role of the clergy. of diseases in ways which Storyteller's whole point.'" 
meant to be a priest. 

They Might Be Giants innovates the music world 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR excellent musicians." commercial success. Music Critic Flansburgh expressed "When we first started, we concern about the show being had limited access to recording 
Stepan Center will kick off its played in a geodesic dome, a studios, said Flansburgh. "So 1992-1993 concert season structure pioneered by R. there's always been something tonight when They Might Be Buckminster Fuller, which very simple to all of our Giants take the stage at tends to play cruel acoustic arranging." Michiana 's oldest, largest and pranks on performers. But They Might Be Giants has most famous geodesic dome. "Maybe (Bill) Clinton will have been innovative in other aspects 
Jfailing from New York, after some of our songs still bouncing of their music. Their witty lyrics meeting in grammar school around in there," said are among the most intelligent near Boston, They Might Be Flansburgh, referring to the in music today, and some of the Giants is the duo of guitarist governor of Arkansas' speech in band's ideas are simple genius. John Flansburgh and Stepan Center on Friday ''I'm going down to accordionist John Linnell. The afternoon. Cowtown!fhe cow's a friend to group sings some of the wittiest They Might Be Giants has me/Lives beneath the 
songs ever recorded in any been recording since 1986, ocean/That's where I will be Indo-European language, when their self-titled debut beneath the waves," Linnell except for Farsi. album was released, including sings in "Cowtown," from 
For the first time in their "(She Was A) Hotel Detective" Lincoln, the group's second touring history, They Might Be and "Don't Let's Start." The album. Giants is playing with a full latter was an MTV staple of Though most They Might Be band, producing a sound which sorts, and earned the group Giants songs are one hundred 
more closely resembles their some nationwide name percent goofiness, they do have current sound. recognition. a social conscience. 

"It's actually a lot more different for us than it is for the people in the audience," said Flansburgh. "In the past we've had to strip down songs a lot when we played live, but now we can more closely match our recorded sound. On a musical level, it's a lot more challenging to keep up with these really 
"We really thought of the first album as a document of our shows in New York," Flansburgh said. "Then we played all over the country." 
The group has released three albums since, including Apollo 18, its latest effort. Flansburgh has enjoyed the technical blessings that have come with 
"Minimum Wage," from 1990's Flood, consists of two lyrical words, a bullwhip crack and about forty seconds of accordion, and concisely tells the story of what minimum wage work is all about. 
"I don't think we are the kind of band you can successfully imitate," said Flansburgh. "We have a pretty unusual balancing act to perform." 
Opening for They Might Be Giants is campus act Victoria's Real Secret, who have a new lease on their musical life after surviving the addition of a bass player. 
"We are pumped and we are ready," said VRS's Steve Sostak. "We just got our new bass player and everything's real tight. We're ready to get the car moving.'' 

Tickets for tonight's show are available for $8 for students and $12 for non-students. 
Stepan Center's doors will open at 7 p.m. 
Thursday, September 1 0, 1992

page 10 The Observer 
The Observer accepts classifiads avery business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Canter. Deadline for next-day classifiads is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
!!11!!!!!!11!!1!11!11!!1!!!!11!1!!!!1!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!  HELP! NEED TO TRADE 4 BC  NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN  
NOTICES  FOR SALE  !!!  GA'S FOR 4 BYU GA'S. PLEASE CALL COLLECT AFTER 8 PM  PLEASE HELP. CALL 1573  MARRIED STUDENT TIX BOOK  
RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR,  I have MARRIED student tix book  (609) 769-0721.  HELP!  
For more information and  TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE  Need to sell Marty 1165  NEED 2-10 STANFORD GA'S  FOR SALE BOB 287-9118  
assistance regarding the  SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR,  NEED 1 MICHIGAN STUDENT  CALL JOE X1560  
investigation of financing, business  TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!111!!!1!!1!!!!!!!!!  TICKET OR GA. WILL PAY  NO ID REQUIRED  
opportunities and work-at-home  SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY  1!!1  BUCKS!! SHANNON X2996  ND Alum needs 2 reasonably priced  NO ID REQUIRED  
opportunities, THE OBSERVER  FREE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS,  Michigan tix. Please call (408)492­ 
urges its readers to contact the  272-5959  !!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!111111111!111!  NEED 1 STANFORD AND 1 BC  0660 X248 or (415)579-1432.  
Better Business Bureau of  !!!  GA. CALL X2805  
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED  N.D. ALUM NEEDS 4 MICH GA'S.  BOSTON COLLEGE SUCKS!  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ 89 MERCEDES ......... $200  I have MARRIED student tix book  2 MICHIGAN GA'S FOR SALE  WILLING TO PAY OR TRADE ANY  So why don't you sell me your  
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­ 86 VW. ......................... $ 50  Need to sell Marty 1165  Will Take Best Offer$  OTHER HOME GAME GA'S.  tickets?  
9121 or 800-439-5313.  87 MERCEDES .......... $100  Call Steve at x3272  PLEASE CALL (312) 327-9853 ASK  Call Delli 283-1693  
65 MUSTANG ............. $ 50  111!1!111!!!1!!1!!!1!11!!!!!!!1!111!!!!!!11!!11!11111!1!1  FOR PAUL OR LEAVE A  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  Choose from thousands starting  1!1!  Need Penn St. Tix  MESSAGE.  NEED TWO MICHIGAN G.A.'S  
$25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour  Tony x1786  CALL STEVE 277-5329  
ATTENTION CAMPUS BANDS!!!  Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright  •• 1993-FINAL FOUR"  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
WVFI is looking for acts to take part  #IN11KJC.  I have 2 tickets to 1993 FINAL 4 in  Need 1 Student Ticket for Michigan  Brother coming out for weekend  
in a live campus bands show-a Ia  New Orleans. Will trade for  Will Pay Big $$$$  I need Michigan student tickets and  Desperately need  
John Peel-on Wednesday nights  TYPEWRITERS: IBM Selectric &  STANFORD GA's. Larry x3671  call Mason 289-4278  2 BYU GA's.  3 or 4 MICH TIX  
this semester. If you're interested in  Selectric 11($75 ea/obo) 2729770  $$$$$$$$$$$  
getting on the air, call Rolando at  I Need 1 MICH STUD  FOR SALE:  Call Molly 284-4377  Call Jon x4239  
273-0895.  U2 Tickets For Sale!  4648 Maria  2 Mich GA's  
4 Lawn Seats, 9-15 at World,  283-4483  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  PLEASE!!!!!  
- TYPING 287-4082  Chicago. $40 ea or best. 287-5724.  If you have 2 MICH GAs, I have lots of$$$$ Call Kirstin x4281  PLEASE SELL ME ONE STUDENT  FOUR FRIENDS OF A PLAYER ON  Need one BC GA for friend from Cali. Please call Gina B 4974.  
STUD TIX FOR SALE SEC.31  OR GA TIC FOR PURDUE.  THE '88 TEAM NEED TIX FOR  
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!!  MAKE OFFER PETE-3626  I Really Need 1 Student ticket for  CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303  MICHIGAN GAME. THEY REALLY  WILL TRADE  
BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday  Penn State ... Brian at x1771  BEFORE 4 PM OR 272-3753  WANT THE TIX BAD.  2 MSU GAs  
Pandora's Books 808 Howard  LUV SEAT & CHAIR($75). New  AFTER 5 PM.  CALL 1075 AND ASK FOR MARK  FOR  
3 blks. from campus 233-2342  coffee maker($10). 272-9770  Any Mich GAs out there? If so, call  OR QUAALUDE  1 U of M GAISTUDENT  
Brian at x1771  MICHIGAN GA'S FOR SALE!!!  PLEASE CALL ASAP  
3-year old male chesapeake bay  STUDENT TIX BOOK 4-SALE.  289-6589  WANTED:  MEAl 284-4346  
retriever needs good home for the  JENNIFER 284-5503.  I need 4 BOSTON COLLEGE tix.  MICH. AND PURDUE TIX. CALL  MAY SELL 2 MSU GAs  
school year. For information call  PLEASE call Robin at x2867 if you  MIKE @1151 & LEAVE MSGE.  
Mike or Theresa at 239'5368.  U2 TICKETS  have some to spare.  NEED PENN STATE TICKETS.  
-for Tuesday, Sept. 15 at World  STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE  Wanted: MICH & PURD TIX. Call  WILL PAY $40 EACH. CALL  
ILOST & FOUND I  Theater (Chicago) -Call Rich at 287-3123; will accept  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  CALL 283-1747  Mike@ 1151 & Leave Msg.  COLLECT 614 -354-5716  
best offer.  I NEED 2 GA's AND 1 STUDENT  I NEED TWO MICHIGAN TIX  TRADE:  
LOST: BLACK PURSE BETWEEN  TICKET FOR PENN STATE.  STEVE 277-8178  MICH tix for STAN tix  
FISHER & HURLEY. CALL  FURNITURE: Call: 287-7611  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS  please call Marc2, x4857  
283-3103 IF FOUND.  Entertainment Center & Bookcase  Call John X4478  I really need two GA's for Purdue.  I need 2 GA's for both B.C. and  
$30; Teak Bookcase $75; Oak  Will pay good money.  Penn State. 283-4607.  I NEED MICH STUD. TIX  
LOST: silver ring in Hayes Healey  Bookcase $20; Chair $20; Green  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Mike 277-9139  CALL JOHN X3646  
1st floor bathroom. Sentimental  Easy Chair $50.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
value -please call Laura 273  SR. STUD. TIX FOR SALE. BEST  I'VE GOT TWO PURDUE GAs  SELLING ONE STUDENT TKT  
8377.  FOR SALE: G.A.s for ALL  OFFER. **289-6589**  YOU'VE GOT TWO PENN STATE  I NEED MICHIGAN STUDENT  SEC 35 B/0 LV MESSAGE  
Home Games.  GAs  TICKETS and BYU GA's.  283-2291  
FOUND: 2 keys on a ring outside of  X 1679  Need Mich tix. Stud or GA $ Call  WANNA TRADE?  If you have some you are willing to  
Haggar on 9-7. Call x2989 to claim.  Brian 277-2645  Call Bret (me) at 1248. I love you.  sell please call Molly 284-4377  Need general admission tickets for  
BSR 6 disc CD player. Remote, 2  Michigan and Purdue games. Call  
LOST****  Cartridges. Good Condition. Call  I need Michigan GA's.  MICHIGAN GA'S ...I HAVE 411f you  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Mary Lou or Ray. Daytime:234­ 
SET OF 3 KEYS W/KEY RING  Dan x1689.  Call Matt x1962.  need them call 283-1166-ask for  7553. Evening: 234-3873  
AT SOUTH DINING HALL STEPS  PAUL.  Will pay BIG BUCKS for 2 MICH  
ON SUNDAY NIGHT.  SKIS  I have 6 Mich. Ga's, 2 purd  GA's. Call STEVE 289-2683  Ticket booklet tor sale!!!!!!  
CALLX-1748  Atomic 833sl -top of the line  GA's,need 9 Mich. stud. let's make  NEED 2 BYU GA'S BADLY-CALL  Leave offer on answering machine.  
I WANTED  direct from factory, still wrapped excellent price! Kevin x1062  a deal. Call mike at 273-2233. Need G.A.'s for B.C.,B.Y.U. and  X3625 MARRIED STUDENT BOOKLETS  PLEASE HELP! ALUMNUS SEEKS GA'S TO MICHIGAN. CALL BILL AT 614­ '3647 I Have Mich GAs  
Penn St. Will pay BIG! #4419  FOR SALE 277-9389 AFTER 6 PM  885-4616 AND I WILL CALL YOU  Chris X1717  
NEEDED BYU and Michigan GA's.  Like NEW AMPLIFIER For Sale  BACK. THANK YOU!  
~ease call 284-4308. GOING TO THE U2 CONCERT? 4 desperate babes need a ride to  Call Mike x1849 I TICKETS  Need MICHIGAN Tix, Pay $$$ 289­2683 We Have G.A.s for ALL  Need 2 tickets-GAs-for Oct. 3 Stanford game. Call Angela 283­4058  Need atleast 3 Purdue G.A.'S. Will pay big $. 273-0629  HAVE MICH. GA'S IN PAIRS & 4 TOGETHER CALL CHRIS 277-5733  
and from on 9/16. Will pay gas &  +++++++++++++++++++++++  Home games incl. MICH.  Need Purdue tix  
tolls. Will split up 2 & 2 if needed.  Call x1679  NEED 2 TICKETS Penn State  I have U2 tix & am willing to deal  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
PLEASE HELP US! Call x4721.  WE HAVE THE GAs.  game Nov 14. BIG $Call Sam  x1BB4  I NEED TWO GA TICKETS FOR  
YOU NEED  **************************************H  Collect (D)908-687-1330 (N)201­ THE STANFORD GAME. CALL  
Going to  MUST UNLOAD 'CAUSE  ELP!!! I NEED 1 STANFORD GA  376-9427  Need STANFORD GA's or STD's  MATT AT X1741  
WINNIPEG, MANITOBA  PARENTS CANNOT COME =  My grandmother is making her first  Call Brian 273-0967  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
for Christmas break?  PLEASE f!ELP ME OUT  and last visit to ND from Yazoo City,  NEED ONE MICH STUD TICKET  
Will take riders to split the cost  BOB 287-9118  MS (would I make that up)  MOLLY 233-4925  HAVE 2 STANFORD GA'S NEED  I HAVE 4 MICHIGAN GA'S  
Christina 283-2974  ++++++++++++++++++++++  and would like to see a game while  TIX FOR BOSTON COLLEGE.  Call Vince x1251 & make an offer  
she is here!  WILL TRADE my 2 Michigan GA's  CALL WENDY X1264  
UNIQUE, PART-TIME, INCOME  I have Michigan GA's  Please call Stephanie at x3743  for your 2 Penn State GA's. Call  Have std. tik booklet and 2 BYU  
OPPORTUNITY. Seeking a  Patsy at x4876.  NEED BYU TIX! CALL WENDY  GAs to sell or trade for Purdue,  
creative, competitive marketing  I need BC tickets  X1264  Stanford, BC or Penn GAs. 271­ 
person to represent a new, low cost  Pay big $$$ for THREE MICH. GA's  DESPERATELY NEED STUD TIX  5618.  
product to people searching for a  Will trade ... call Sean  or student tix (will put down deposit  BOOK x2205  LOOKING TO TRADE 2  
new career. For interview call 234­ @1817  for book) Call Pat: 232-4528  STANFORD GA's FOR 2 BC GA's.  FOR SALE:  
1171, 8am-5pm.  CALL JOHN at X3526.  Two excellent Mich. GA's  
I have Michigan GA's  Need 1 Mich. stud or GA  ***TICKET BOOKLET for sale!!!!!!  45 yard-line. Taking best offer.  
-Sean 273-2497  leave offer on machine X2905  MICHIGAN TIX needed  call 299-1845  
@1817 Sean or Harry  GA's or Student  
EXTERIOR PAINTERS  I need 2 MICHIGAN tix  2 Stud BOOKLETS on Sale x1849  Call Bill-1104  
Experienced Student Painters  PLEASE HELP:  call Kathleen X4092.  *****I NEED 2 MICHIGAN GA'S****  
needed to paint South Bend area  My dad would like to see one  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  Need 4 Perdue GA's  NAME YOUR PRICE-My parents  
homes. Full or Part Time.  Michigan game before I graduate  HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE  Have Stanford GA's to trade +$$  are coming down for their one and  
AMERICA'S COLLEGE PAINTERS  and need tickets.  I have a pair of incredible MICH  AT 618-439-3338.  John x1166  only football game-please call 272­ 
1 (800)626-6267  Call Mike 283-1161  GA's. Will take best offer. Call  9128!  
"painting America's homes coast to  Chrissy-3845 or 3620.  Will pay big bucks for ND -MICH  $$ND-Mich stud or GAs needed$$  
coast"  I NEED ND FOOTBALL  G.A. tix. Call Joe@ 287-4561.  call Steve x1594  Need Mich. Student tix & GA's. My  
TICKETS.272-6306  Football tickets for sale-married  dad's willing to pay big bucks for the  
EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our  student booklets 273-9424.  HAVE 2 NORTHWEST GA's  HELP~!!  GA's.  
circulars!. ..Begin NOW!... FREE  Have 4 Penn St. GA  NEED MICH and/or  NEED 2 MICHIGAN GA's.  Call Ann Marie x2775.  
packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box  Will trade for 4 Mich GA  Sell married student booklet. Like  WHOLE STUD. BOOKS  TIM x 2763.  
4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000.  Call Bo at 3502  GA's (not ID needed). 273-9612  288-1 027 -MARK  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  SALE: STUDENT TICKET BOOK  
288-4919  
09/11  WANT TO MAKE A BUCK?  2 U2 9/16 4sale -BILL X2187  
Mature NO or SMC student(s)  WANTED: GA'S/STUDENT TIX  Need 1 or 2 GAs for Mich-who  I REALLY NEED MICH. TICKETS!  SELLING TWO MICHIGAN G.A.'s.  
wanted to provide child care in our  FOR ANY/ALL HOME GAMES­ doesn't? Call Judy-239-6515.  WILL PUT DEPOSIT ON TICKET  Needed: 2 Michigan  THAT'S RIGHT. I'VE STILL  
home for two happy children (2  MICH. A MUST! ALUMNI IN  BOOK. CALL JON DEBARTOLO  4 BC GA's  GOT' EM. CALL 272-8540 AND  
yrs;6 mos). Must have own  DESPERATE NEED I! 708-843­ I DESPERATELY NEED A GA OR  AT x3587.  Joe #1112  MAKE AN OFFER!!  
transportation, interest in children.  6947.  STUDENT TICKET FOR PENN  
Call Mary Fran, 289-7017.  STATE-CALL JAHNELLE AT 283­ HELP!! Need 1 STAN GA  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  NEEDED:  
$$NEED 4 MICH GAs BADLY$$  2998  Call Scott at x4243  A rich old man will pay serious cash  TWO STANFORD G.A.'S  
FOR RENT  CALL AMY x2609  I need student and/or GA Purdue  Good price  for 2 Mich. G.A.'s. Call Chris x1624  CALL TOM AT 273-8355  
NEED PENN ST. TIX. GA'S ONLY.  football tickets and Boston College  PLEASE PLEASE.  
SHARP RIVERFRON rHOME­ 234-8306 OR 800-323-7687.  GA football tickets; please call Dave  I NEED MICH. GA'S.  Wealthy alum will trade job and both  SUPPORT THE NO FAMILY  
FOOTBALL WKNDS/SHORT TERM  at x4506.  CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303  children for Michigan ticket...  
RENTALS. ALSO APT. &  NEED 2 MICH. GA'S WILL BUY,  BEFORE 4 PM.  call Tom @289-3887  I will buy your tickets I have family  
BEDROOMS.257-9101.  OR TRADE FOR PURDUE, BYU,  NEED 2 Michigan GAs $$$ x3593  OR 272-3753 AFTER 5.  coming and need to buy as many as  
BOST. COLL. OR PENN ST. GA'S.  SCALPERS NEED NOT CALL.  MICHIGAN  possible.  
BED "N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  232-0817  stud. tkts. FOR SALE!!!  PLEASE HELP Little 'ole me  
219-291-7153  I NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS  I have U2 (Chi) tickets. I want PSU  best offer. call #1756  Call anytime at 234-9433  
will trade 2 STAN GA for 2 PSU  ONE OR TWO PLEASE! I!  tickets, TRADE?  Please help Little 'pie me  
UNIQUE B & B COUNTRY  GA or STD x1645  $$CALL JOHN X 1450$$  Dan x1374.  I NEED 1 MICH. STUD. TICKET  
SETTING. MINUTES FROM NO  CALL VINCE 272-8503  SUPPORT THE ND FAMILY  
NEAR GRANGER. CALL 616-663­ Badly need 2 student or GA tickets  MY BRO IS A GREAT H.S. QB.  DESPERADO NEEDS Ml TICKET  
•8308.  to Michigan. Will pay good money.  HE LUVS TO GET PLAYS FROM  JUST ONEil Student or GA.  SELLING MARRIED STUDENT  
x2714.  ND. HE NEEDS PLAYS.  Call Tim x4116  TICKETS BOOKLET  STUDENT TICKETS 4 SALE  
West End Mishawaka apartment,  THERE'S ONE WAY.  (9-11) 271 19 98  CALL X1547 TONY OR MARK  
newly remodeled clean 1 bdrm,  NEED STUDENT TIX FOR MICH.  SELL ME YOUR PU, ST, BYU, BC,  HELP!! I Need 4-5 GAs for Nov.  
$275 @ mo. + deposit + utilities. 256-2108 or 256-7152 after 6 pm.  WILLING TO PAY BIG $$$. CALL BRIAN AT 273-8453.  PENNGA'S! CALL ERIN 284-5128.  7 BC game. Please call x3799. Thanks.  MICH TIX For Sale Call271 1514  see CLASS/page 14  


All Times EDT AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division w L Toronto 81 59 Baltimore 77 62 Milwaukee 75 64 NewYorl< 67 73 Boston 64 75 Cleveland 64 75 Detroit 64 75 West Division w L Oakland 81 57 Minnesota 78 62 Chicago 74 63 Texas 69 73 California 63 76 Kansas City 62 77 Seattle 56 84 NATIONAL LEAGUE East Division w L Pittsburgh 81 58 Montreal 76 63 St. Louis 69 68 Chicago 69 69 NewYorl< 63 75 Philadelphia 56 81 West Division W L Atlanta 83 55 Cincinnati 75 64 San Diego 7 4 63 Houston 66 72 San Francisco 61 77 Los Angeles 55 83 z-denotes first game was a win.  Pet .579 .554 .540 .479 .460 .460 .460 Pet .587 .557 .540 .486 .453 .446 .400 Pet .583 .547 .504 .500 .457 .409 Pet .601 .540 .540 .478 .442 . 399  GB L10 z-8-2 3112 z-6-4 51/2 6-4 14 6-4 161/2 z-5-5 161/2 5-5 161/2 z-2-8 GB L10 z-4-6 4 z-7-3 61/2 6-4 14 z-5-5 181/2 z-5-5 19 1/2 z-4-6 26 2-8 GB L10 z-8-2 5 z-6-4 11 z-7-3 11 1/2 z-4-6 171/2 3-7 24 z-4-6 GB L10 z-7-3 81/2 4-6 81/2 5-5 17 z-7-3 22 2-8 28 2-8  Streak Won 2 Lost 4 Lost 1 Won 4 Lost 2 Won 1 Lost 2 Streak Won 1 Won 3 Won 2 Won 2 Lost 1 Lost 2 Lost 7 Streak Won 2 Lost 1 Won 1 Lost 2 Lost 2 Won 2 Streak Won 5 Lost 2 Lost 1 Won 1 Won 1 Lost 2  Home 45-24 36-32 44-27 36-33 39-29 37-34 31-38 Home 41-27 42-29 45-25 33-39 36-33 38-33 33-37 Home 45-26 36-35 37-31 36-31 35-32 33-37 Home 44-26 44-23 40-28 39-30 37-34 34-35  Away 36-35 41-30 31-37 31-40 25-46 27-41 33-37 Away 40-30 36-33 29-38 36-34 27-43 24-44 23-47 Away 36-32 40-28 32-37 33-38 28-43 23-44 Away 39-29 31-41 34-35 27-42 24-43 21-48  AMERICAN LEAGUE Wednesday's Games Late Games Not Included Minnesota 6, Seattle 2 New York 5, Baltimore 2 Texas 3, Boston 2 Toronto 1, Kansas City 0 Cleveland 5, Milwaukee 4 Detroit at Chicago (n) Oakland at California (n) Thursday's Games Detroit (Haas 3-2) at Chicago (Fernandez 7-8), 8:05p.m. Toronto (Ju.Guzman 13-3) at Texas (Pavlik 3-2), 8:35p.m. Seattle (Johnson 11-12) at Oakland (Darling 12-9), 10:05 p.m. Only games scheduled Friday's Games Kansas City at New York, 7:30 p.m. Detroit at Boston, 7:35p.m. Milwaukee at Baltimore, 7:35 p.m. Cleveland at Chicago, 8:05p.m. California at Minnesota, 8:05 p.m. Toronto at Texas, 8:35p.m. Seattle at Oakland, 10:35 p.m. NATIONAL LEAGUE Wednesday's Games Late Games Not Included Philadelphia 2, New Vorl< 1 St. Louis 10, Montreal3 Pittsburgh 13, Chicago 8 Atlanta 12, Cincinnati 7 Houston at San Francisco (n) San Diego at Los Angeles (n) Thursday's Games Houston (Bowen 0-4) at San Francisco (Burkett 11-9), 3:35 p.m.  Men Singles Quarterfinals Jim Courier (1), Dade City, Fla., del. Andre Agassi (8), Las Vegas, 6-3, 6-7 (6-8), 6-1, 6­4 . Pete Sampras (3), Bradenton, Fla., del . Alexander Volkov, Russia, 6-4, 6-1, 6-0. Doubles Quarterfinals Jim Grabb, Tucson, Ariz., and Richey Reneberg, Houston (2), del. Neil Barwick and Simon Youl, Australia, 6-4, 7-6 (7-4), 6­3. John McEnroe, New York, and Michael Stich, Germany (6), del. Sergio Casal and Emilio Sanchez, Spain (13), 6-7 (4-7), 6-3, 6-7 (8-10), 7-6 (8-6), 6-4. Semifinals Kelly Jones, San Diego, and Rick Leach, Laguna Beach, Calif. (4), del. Todd Woodbridge and Mark Woodforde, Australia (1), 7-6 (7-4), 7-6 (7-3), 6-2. Women Singles Quarterfinals Arantxa Sanchez Vicario (5), Spain, del. Steffi Graf (2), Germany, 7-6 (7-5), 6-3. Manuela Maleeva-Fragniere (9), Bulgaria, del. Magdalena Maleeva, Bulgaria, 6-2, 5-3 retired. Doubles Quarterfinals Gigi Fernandez, Aspen, Colo., and Natalia Zvereva, Belarus (3), del. Lori McNeil, Houston, and Rennae Stubbs, Australia (6), 6-3,6-2 . Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, Spain, and Helena Sukova, Czechoslovakia (2), del.  Jana Novotna, Czechoslovakia, and Larisa Savchenko-Neiland, Latvia (1), del. Mary Joe Fernandez, Miami, and Zina Garrison, Houston (5), 1·6, 6-4,7-6 (7-1). Martina Navratilova, Aspen, Colo., and Pam Shriver, Baltimore (4), del. Patty Fendick, Sacramento, Calif., and Andrea Strnadova, Czechoslovakia (8), 6-2,6-2. Mixed Doubles Quarterfinals Helena Sukova, Czechoslovakia, and Tom Nijssen, Netherlands (5), del. Zina Garrison, Houston, and Rick Leach, Laguna Beach, Calif., (4), 6-4, 6-4. Semifinals Nicole Provis and Mark Woodforde, Australia (6), del. Elna Reinach, South Africa, and Pat Galbraith, Tacoma, Wash. (7), 6-0, 6-3. Helena Sukova, Czechoslovakia, and Tom Nijssen, Netherlands (5), del. Jill Hetherington, Canada, and Glenn Michibata, Woodland Hills, Calif., 6-4,6-3. Masters Man Singles First Round llie Nastase, Romania, del. Dick Stockton, Dallas, 7-6 (10-8), 7-6 (8-6). Mixed Doubles Semifinals Wendy Turnbull, Australia, and Marty Riessen, Dallas (1 ), del. Betty Stove, Netherlands, and Sherwood Stewart The Woodlands, Texas, 6-1,6-2. '  
Cincinnati (Swindell 12-6) at Atlanta (Avery  Rachel McQuillan, Australia, and Claudia  
10-9), 5:10p.m.  Prowik. Germanv (12\. 6-4,1-6,6-4.  
San Diego (Deshaies 3-4) at Los Angeles  
(Hershiser 9-12), 10:35 p.m.  

CAMPUS MINisrnY... 
. .... CoNSIDERATIONS 
An Invitation to Fourth Day 
As a Rector in a residence hall, as well as a Campus Minister, I have had many opportunities to observe students and to listen to their concerns. I am particularly intrigued by incoming first year students who are desperately trying to find their niche at this university. As I recall my own college years, I remember how important it was to "fit 
in" somewhere; to find a community with whom I could relate, socialize and share my life. The alternative to "fitting in" was, 
unhappily, being alone. Obviously, there are times when all of us want to be alone, but those should be times of our own choosing. None of us wants to be alone because we haven't quite found a way to belong. 
In their eagerness to fit in, individuals may often fall in with groups with which they are not comfortable. Ideally, we would all like to share time with those who hold the same values and beliefs; who like to participate in the same type of activities which we enjoy. However, nobody wants to spend their free time alone, so it is not uncommon to hastily join in, either formally or informally, a group with which one has very little in common. In this situation, an individual then begins to feel the pressure to do things or become involved in ways with which he or she is not comfortable. Peer groups can often be very influential on a person's actions, regardless of the beliefs that a person holds. 
There are many healthy and happy communities which exist inside of this large community which we call Notre Dame. Each residence hall is a community in itself and offers many opportunities on social, educational and spiritual levels to become involved. As a person who works in the Office of Campus Ministry, I am particularly interested in encouraging students to become involved with communities which will allow them to explore their faith. One of the wonderful things about this university is that it allows people to openly talk about being a Christian without feeling embarrassed about it. Expressing our faith is not only encouraged here ~ it is expected. 
There are various communities on campus that exist for the sole purpose of praying together and discussing issues which are relevant to the spiritual life of the members of this university. One such community calls itself the "Fourth Day." Originally organized as a follow~up for those who participated in the Notre Dame Encounter with Christ Retreat, the Fourth Day community comes together weekly in order to allow students to pray and talk together with their peers. The community invites all who are interested in this type of activity to attend. Many students are involved for the sheer enjoyment of meeting weekly with a large group of people who hold some of their same beliefs. Others come to talk about their daily struggles or to discuss questions with which they are concerned. It is a fun time for people to gather in a community of faith. It is a time to NOT be alone. 
I would like to invite you to explore various communities on campus which allow you to investigate further your own spirituality. You will certainly meet others who share your concerns and questions. You 
will find a group with whom you can "fit in." Most importantly though, you will most probably meet a few individuals whom you can begin to call friends. 
Judy Hutchinson Rector, Breen~ Philips 


Asst. Director, Campus Retreats 
Forth Day Meetings Are Held Every Wednesday From 7:30p.m.~ 8:30p.m. in Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. Sept. 12  5:00p.m.  
Sun. Sept. 13  8:00a.m.  
lO:OOa.m.  
11:45a.m.  

Rev. John Conley, C.S.C. Rev. George Wiskirchen,C.S.C. Rev. Peter Rocca,C.S.C. Rev.Thomas McDermott, C.S.C. 
Applications for Notre Dame Encounter #23 
Scheduled for the weekend of October 9 -11,1992, will be available this coming week September 14-18, 1992 in the Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 
page 12 The Observer 
Fridge activated; Zorich starts 

LAKE FOREST, Ill. (AP) -The Chicago Bears will activate William Perry -all 315 pounds or less of him -to play against the New Orleans Saints this weekend, coach Mike Ditka said Wednesday. 
"He's moving good. He looks good," Ditka said after practice Wednesday. 
Perry, who signed a two-year contract last week, will alternate at the left and right defensive tackle slots with Chris Zorich and Steve McMichael, but will not start, Ditka said. 
"One reason we're not starting Perry is because Zorich has played very well," Ditka said. "I don't think that somebody coming back should start automatically." 
Thunder 
continued from page 16 

Unser Jr. who he holds in high regard. 
"He's my idol because he was so young when he got into it (racing). He's got a real flam­boyant driving style and he makes big moves. He's always exciting to watch," added Buf­fomante. 
Buffomante also got an early introduction to the racing life. Buffomante's father, Anthony Sr., raced karts as his son was growing up and Buffomante used to work the crew for his dad. The elder Buffomante won the first race he ever ran in 1969 in the JACC parking lot. At that time, there was a Sports Car Club at Notre Dame and Buffomante was the vice presi­dent. 
Despite his racing success, Buffomante Sr. never pressured his son to go into racing. At age 12, Buffomante decided that he wanted to try his hand at racing. He ran his first race that year in a go-kart with a five-horsepower engine and a maximum speed of 50 miles per hour and following in the Buffomante family tradition won his first race. 
After four races, Buffomante showed enough promise to move up to a more powerful Sprint Kart and ran in the World Karting Association Na­tional Series. It was at this level that Buffomante started to at­tract attention. He won the WKA National point series three years in a row from 1987­1989 and in 1989 got the opportunity to represent the United States in races half way across the world. 
Buffomante was chosen to captain Team USA in the Kart­ing World Championships in New Zealand and helped the 
~~t~•heObserver ,Jif ... ~ast. ~ight's,.men's soccer }game against Loyola of Chicago . has been rescheduled for October 14. 
' 

GREEI<S & CLUBS 
RAISE A COOL 
•1000 
IN JUST ONE WEEKI 

~LUS $1000 FORTilE ME:MBER WHO CALLS! No obligation. No cost You also get aFREE HEADPHONE RADIO just for calling 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 
The coach said Perry will see a lot of playing time and may eventually be the starter. But in any case, he added, the three 
players  will  continue  to  
alternate.  
"This  should  make  us  

stronger," Ditka said. "We did the same thing when we had Steve and Dan (Hampton) and William." 
Ditka said he is not looking forward to making player cuts on Friday. 
"There's a chance we'll keep eight defensive linemen, but at this point it's very hard to make cuts," he said. "You don't want to make cuts. But we've got to do what is best for the 4 7 people who are going to play, and try to make the team as 
team to a fifth place overall fin­ish in the three week event. 
Buffomante has logged hun­dreds of hours behind the wheel of karts and cars since becoming competitive in the sport of racing, but in an ironic twist of fate he ran into some trouble during his driver's test. 
"It was two days before Homecoming and I wanted to get my license so my sister wouldn't have to drive me to the dance. The test was on old roads and I was cutting corners like a race car driver would and I failed," said Buffomante. 
Right now, Buffomante knows where he wants to go in racing, but he also knows that he has a long way to go. Currently, Buffomante is sponsored only by Island Thunder, but competitive racing costs much more than one family can give. Most drivers have several strong as it can be." 
Ditka said he is not planning to do too much differently against New Orleans in the Superdome than he did last year, other than to help out his offensive tackles. Rookie Troy Auzenne is starting on the left side and right offensive tackle Keith Van Horne is questionable because of sore toes. 
The news about Perry will not sit well with New Orleans' coach, Jim Mora. 
"It means we'll have to double team him," Mora said in an earlier conference call from New Orleans. "That's the only way you can stop him. Perry is a great football player and he adds to an already tough Bears' defense." 
sponsors such as Valvoline and Newport who pay for tires and equipment and Buffomante is hoping a winning trip to the SCCA National Championship will attract the attention of the corporate sponsors. 
"Not having a sponsor is re­ally frustrating because the other guys have so much money. The guys with the big bucks are buying the very best motors and equipment," said Buffomante. ''I'm doing the best I can, but I always feel that I have to overdrive the car just to keep up." 
Despite the odds, Buffomante has continued to succeed in racing, but he's not satisfied. 
"I don't know if a racer is ever happy. Everytime I go out there, I want to win and if I don't it's disappointing," said Buffomante. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM at 


MEXICO CITY 
SPRING 1993 1993-94 ACADEMIC YEAR 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With PROFESSOR ANGELA BORELLI 
Thursday, September 10, 1992 
4:30P.M. 
Room 202 DeBartolo 

ALL ARE WELCOME! 
"YES, YOU CAN ATTEND YALE!!!" 
presented lly 
FRED JERVA 
(N.D. Class of '90) 

representing Yale University College of Science Department of Pharmacology 
Please JOin us on Thursday, September 1O, 1992 
in The Life Sciences Auditorium -Room 283 Galvin a15:00 PM 
for: 
A brref review of Mr. Jerva's research. -An introduction to pharmacology, and -lnformatron about applying to Yale 
Graduate School 
SPONSORED BY THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME BIOLOGY CLUB 
'COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) -If you've noticed that the Bowling Green-Ohio State game isn't on the daily betting lines, it's because Bowling Green is in the Mid-American Conference. 
Tim McCarthy, a sports book supervisor for Harrah's in Reno, said the game is not listed on the latest line because the MAC is one of two conferences "not on the official rotation." 
McCarthy said games involving the MAC and Big West Conference are seldom on the list because they are not considered among the nation's preeminent major college teams. 
"There's two things at work here," said Russ Culver, sports book manager for The Mirage 
Thursday, September 1 0, 1992 
hotel and casino in Las Vegas. "First, those conferences are never on TV, so there is no coverage. Second, they don't have any stars to speak of, although Randall Cunningham came out of the Big West. With all the games on a Saturday, there's just not much interest in Mid-American Conference games." 
When MAC teams play against national powers, Culver said the games are seldom listed because they are usually "walkovers." He said Bowling Green was a good team for the MAC but was overmatched against Ohio State. 
Culver lists Bowling Green as a 14-point underdog. 


Linwu:;inc t_:,-Primtc Tran:;pMiation Scruicc 
A\'ailabk For Bu~iill'~S & Social Eng,1gL'nwnt-. 
(219} 273-1234 ?a-t: {219} 271-0442 
P.O. Box 109 • Notre Dame, IN 46556-0lOSI 
Very Reasonable Rates: $5.00 Anywhere within city limits $25. 00 per hour Equipped with Color Tv, VCR and Stereo Reservations stron ly recommended 
THE CLASSIC TALE OF LOVE AND ADULTERY IS NOW THE MOTION PICTURE EVENT OF THE SEASON. 
"TRIUMPHANT! ONE OF THE YEAR'S 
MOST PROVOCATIVE FILMS! The incomparable Isabelle Huppert is astounding:' -Peter Travers, ROWNG STONE Magazine 
"SEE IT!" 
-Vincent Canby, THE NEW YORK TIMES 
"ONE OF THE YEAR'S 10 BEST!" 
-Michael Wilmington, LOS ANGELES TIMES 
THE SAMUEL GOLDWYN COMPANY AND MARJN KARMITZ 
ISABELLE HUPPERT 


!!dattt(5'/ 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:15 , 9:45 
------------------·--~ --~-----­
Thursday, September 1 0, 1992 The Observer page 13 
Yount gets no. 3000 
MILWAUKEE (AP} ~ He broke in as an 18-year-old shortstop in 197 4 and now, 19 seasons later, Robin Yount has become a player for the ages with the Milwaukee Brewers. 
Unassuming, consistent and durable, the Brewers' Rockin Robin has reached 3,000 hits, joining only 16 other major league players on one of baseball's most elite lists. All but Pete Rose, barred from baseball for betting, are in the Hall of Fame. 
Yount got No. 3,000 Wednesday night, a line single to right center off Cleveland's Jose Mesa in the seventh in­ning. 
"I've been fairly consistent and been fortunate to stay away from a major injury that kept me out of an extended period of time. The key has been consistency and health," said Yount, who's been on the disabled list only twice in his career. 
A week shy of his 37th birthday, Yount is the third­youngest player to hit the 3,000-hit milestone. Only Ty Cobb, who was 34, and Hank Aaron, who was 36 years and four months, were younger when they got their 3,000th. 
Yount. never one to like the spotlight, has played his entire career with the same small­market Brewers, joining them after only one short minor­league season. 
He is one of three major leaguers to win two Most Valuable Player Awards at dif­ferent positlons. He won as a shortstop in 1982 when the Brewers went to their only World Series. After switching to the outfield in 1985 because of shoulder problems, he won his second MVP four years later as a centerfielder, even though the Brewers were a .500 team that season. 
"The fact that I have seen how this game can take its toll, both physically and mentally, helps me appreciate the goal of 3,000 hits," said Paul Molitor, Yount's teammate since 1978. 
"It talks of consistency, ability and endurance as well as super talent, necessary to reach such a goal." 
The thought of the Milwaukee Brewers without Robin Yount is one team president Bud Selig can't bear to consider. 
Selig has had a personal hand in negotiating•contracts with Yount, including a three-year, $9.6 million deal Yount signed after the 1989 season. 
ONE·DOZEN 

STUPENDOUS 

If you can't decide on just one of our meat. seafood or cheese sauces, choose any two of a dozen delectable choices. Being indecisive has never been so rewarding. Entrees include soup or salad and freshly baked San Francisco sourdough bread, and lots of fun. 
S: 
Spaghetti ~ Warehouse 
Great Italian Food. All-American Fun. 501 N. Niles Ave. • The Works Hotel; 232-4414 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP} ~ Jeff Zgonina of Purdue, a semifinalisf for the Lombardi Award as the nation's top lineman, doesn't hold back when assessing his potential. 
"It was my fault I wasn't an All-American last year," said the 6-foot-2, 270-pound senior from Long Grove, Ill. "I believe I should have been an All­American last year, but I didn't play up to my ability." 
Zgonina has been moved from nose guard to tackle this year to make it more difficult for offensive linemen to thwart his charges into opposing backfields.He doesn't care where coach Jim Colletto plays him, however, when the Boilermakers open the season 
Saturday  against  No.  17  
California.  
"To  me  it doesn't make  a  

difference, as long as I'm making the plays," Zgonina said. "I've been here five years now, and I've got to show leadership. The best way is to show leadership on the field, making the big plays and firing up the team so it goes back to the huddle pumped up." 
"No matter what position I'm at, I will be an All-American this year," he said. 
"I want to win. I want to go to a bowl game. I want to be an All-American, win the Outland or Lombardi award," he added. 
"If I don't, it will be my fault. ... I want to leave me name here as someone who has turned this program around. "Zgonina compared himself to another Purdue line great, Dave Butz, who went on to star with the Washington Redskins. 
"I want to be mentioned in the same sentence as Dave Butz as one of the great linemen that have been here," Zgonina said. 
Zgonina last year had 53 solo tackles despite constant double­and triple-teaming by opponents. He has 195 after starting 33 consecutive games for Purdue. 
"I wasn't focused enough last year," Zgonina said. "Being double-teamed for the first time since I've been here that much, for the whole game, got me flustered and kind of bothered me." 
Colletta thinks a new position will help Zgonina fulfill his potential. 
"Many times he's going to be on a guy all by himself. and that guy is going to have his hands full. We did it to give him a chance to make more plays," Colletta said. 

Colletto agreed post-season honors are within Zgonina's reach. 
"I don't think he's even reached his potential as a college football player. I don't feel he's really turned loose," Colletto said. "If he does, he can really become a bigger force." 
Zgonina has created problems for his Boilermaker teammates in practice. 
"He controls everything. We try to keep him out of a lot of things and we don't get much done," Colletto said. Hopefully, he can do the same thing to Cal's offensive linemen." 
California defeated San Jose State 46-16 in coach Keith Gilbertson's debut with the Golden Bears on Saturday. 
"We have a lot of respect for him," Gilbertson said. "I think he's certainly an Outland Trophy candidate. He's a guy when you turn the film on or every time you go to the line of scrimmage, you better know where he is." 
GUATEMALEN & INDIAN IMPORTS jewelry, clothing, & accessories GREAT SELECTION, GREAT PRICES! 
StoP bY SEPTEMBER 7-12 to took, buy, 1.0 a.m: -5 p.m. VI•sit... 1n Sorm Room 
or of LaFortune 
$1 Raffle for $60 in merchandise. Proceeds go to St Thomas Lutheran Church for project in Guatemala 
EXPORT QUALITY OUTFITS 
PAKISTANI CLOTHING 
100% COTION & LINEN ON SALE 
SKIRTS•OPEN BUTION SHIRTS SLACKS•TOPS SOFA BACKS &CUSHION COVfRS PAKISTANI JEWELRY HANGINGS AND MANY MOR[! 
ISO LOUNGE 2..1 FLOOR LA'FORTUNE FRIDAY•SEPT. 11 9 A.M. TO 10 P.M. 
Go 
Irish 
Beat 
Wolverines 

page 14 The Observer Thursday, September 1 0, 1992 
.... 
Pacers reload without The Rifleman 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The Indiana Pacers' first trade in three years was for stability, not scoring. 
They already had enough points. The problem was finding a way to distribute them that kept everyone happy. 
"To have Detlef Schrempf, Reggie Miller and Chuck Person on the floor all the time ... there's not enough balls to go around," said Pacer president Donnie Walsh, who engineered a four-player swap with Minnesota. 
Sent packing Tuesday night were Person, a 6-foot-8 forward who was the 1987 NBA rookie of the year, and Micheal Williams, a 6-2 guard who found a home -and a starting role -with the Pacers after a two-year odyssey through the NBA. 
In return, Indiana got Pooh Richardson, a 6-1 guard who was Miller's backcourt mate for two years at UCLA and averaged more than 8 assists a game for his 3-year NBA career, and Sam Mitchell, a 6-8 forward who was the Timberwolves' all-time leading rebounder. 
"We felt we had an overabundance of offensive players and not enough players who could perform roles," Walsh said. 
That designation as a role player suits both Richardson and Mitchell. 
''I'm not Chuck; I'm not going to try to be Chuck," said Mitchell, who averaged 10.1 points a game last season. 
"I see myself as a role player, to play defense, get some rebounds. I'm not going to change my game." 
He said the trade to Indiana from a team that won only 15 games last season is a "pleasant surprise." 
"It's going to be a different feeling knowing from the jump ball you have a chance to win. 
With an expansion team you are just hoping you can win," Mitchell said at a news conference late Wednesday afternoon. 
Mitchell said the Pacers' search for a winning team chemistry means "doing whatever they have to do to win." 
"Sometimes everybody has to take a back seat. Whatever it takes-that's what we're going to do." 
Richardson, who was second in scoring for the Timberwolves last season at 16.5 points a game, said he can bring direction and leadership to the Pacers, and that being reunited with Miller "helps a great deal." 
"It will take some pressure off him knowing there is someone there who can get him the ball." 
Richardson would not speculate whether he would start for the Pacers. 
American Heart Association
fXfRCISf 

Does Your Heart Good. 
Class 
continued from page 10 

FOR SALE MICH. PENN STALL GAMES 272 7233 
NEED TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAMES 277·1659 
MICHIGAN GA's for sale! Call Mike or Tim at x1 006 
•• Ticket booklet for sale •• 272 ·1249 (Evening) 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 2 PENN STATE GAs 284·5208 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ ·····-··---------------------------------­

I am in dire need of 3 Stanford GAs Willing to pay good cash . CAll Christian at 4125. 
PERSONAL 
HeyNiff 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY, CHRIS! YOU'LL BE GREAT FOR NOTRE DAME! YOU DESERVE THE BEST! 
AMANDA KAY have a wonderful day 

I 
PRESCHOOL REGISTRATION: The Children's Community Co-op is now filling its morning classes I for ages 3·5 and also the Toddler Playschool. This is a co-op with a growing
I 
popularity within the Notre Dame 

! I 
Community. Call for more info: Peg Moody 234·2320 (mornings). 

,
' JUDGEMENT DAY IS COMING!!!
I 
I Madame X wuz here '92 
r 
' 
I Are you looking for a warm, caring romantic relationship with a loving, considerate partner? You are? Well, who isn't lame brain. Maybe if you spent more time getting ' to know the people around you than burying your#@%&•1 nose in the 
' 
I 
I 
' classifieds you'ld have a little success. Go r on! Put the paper down the paper and do some schmoozing. Don't be pathetic ALL 
your life. 

RIDE NEEDED: Thursdays late afternoon/early evening to Castle Point. Will pay. Eileen 283·2385 
MARGE 

Indiana Auto Insurance 
Our~ rates may save )0.1 money. Call baqoote9-5, 289-1993. Office near amliXJS. 
1 
T·SHIRTS!!I 
"HERE COME THE IRISH," but ''wear" can I find the schedule? Call283·1693 
STEVE CURLEY'S COMING TO TOWN! STEVE CURLEY'S COMING TO TOWN! Look out Domer's, Curley is BACK! Watch out for him at the Michigan game-ready to attack!!l He will be watching Irish Guard I 
WE LOVE YOU STEVE! Love, your favorite Walshiites! 
OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 

2 HOTEL ROOMS AVAILABLE MICH game 9/11·9/12 in Elkhart. Call Will at 716· 383·7439 or 716·288·7439 
GOOD LUCKI! 1992 N.D. Cheerleaders, Wagz, & Coach Love, Broccoli & Yo 
Wanted: Transportation for 2 wonderful women to the Sept. 15 U2 concert in Chicago. PLEASE call X4068 

To the Dillon Fresh who never returned perfume from scavenger hunt to PE: I know where you live. Be afraid. 
·rwD· 
TROOP NOTRE DAME 
The organizational meeting scheduled for Thurs. Sap. 1 0 
9:00 p.m. at rm. 219 Rockne has been changed to the Notre Dame Room · 2nd floor Lafortune 
·rN·D· 
JULIE 
You're finally legal. .. 
in Alberta! 
HAPPY 18TH B·DAY! 
Luv Cyb, Jen, Erica, Eddie V. 
T·SHIRTSII! 
A milion shirts say "Notre Dame," but how many have you seen with the FIGHT SONG? Call 283·1693 
One year later, and Cheryl Moser is still a production goddess. 
Hey ND/SMC ladies: 
Tired of throwing boring parties in your dorms? Looking for a way to liven things up? Well hire Notre Dame's own personal stripper for your next soiree. He's most definitely guaranteed to make sure that your dorm mates and friends don't leave bored!!!! 
HAPPY HAPPY HAPPY HAPPY HAPPY HAPPY BIRTHDAY Kirsten Kearsellll Hope your day is a special one. 
Love, Maura 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Advertisisng Account Executive 
The position involves daily interaction with clients and consumers incorporating all aspects of advertising and marketing. 
Please submit a one-page personal statement or resume to Mike Hobbs by Tuesday, Sept 15.. Contact Hobbs at 239-6900 for more information. 
Oilers' Jones returns 
HOUSTON (AP) -Defensive end Sean Jones, a major factor in the Houston Oilers' pass rush last season, "unretired" and reported to the Oilers training facility Wednesday. 
"It was just time," Jones said after arriving near the end of practice and emerging from his first team meeting. "The reasons I retired may have been a little bit premature. It's something I can always do at another time." 
Jones played last year following bitter contract negotiations and has said he remained angry the entire sea­son. He asked to be traded in the off-season and then an­nounced his retirement and missed preseason and Sunday's season opening loss to Pittsburgh. 
Jones' arrival left the Oilers with defensive end William Fuller and cornerback Cris Dishman in contract nego­tiations. Dishman and his agent met Wednesday with Oilers officials. 
Jones said a talk with coach Jack Pardee helped bring him in. 
"I have a lot of respect for him and it was a lot of the things he told me and the feel­ing he has for this organiza­tion," Jones said. "I maintained if I did come back I would put everything behind me and move forward." 
Jones played in all 16 games last season and started 11 at right end. He was tied for sixth in the AFC and led the team with 10 sacks. He was second on the team in total tackles with 60. 
Jones said he is ready to play this week against the Indianapolis Colts. 
"I've kept myself in pretty good condition so I know I can come off the ball and get after the quarterback," he said. "In terms of how much more coach Pardee wants me to be part of the game plan, that's up to them. 
"Every player feels he can roll out of bed and play, I just have to convince the guys in Indianapolis to be as cooper­ative." 
Pardee said he'd have to see Jones in practice before deciding how much to use him against the Colts. 

NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM!! 

Join the Men's Soccer team 
Friday and help get their home 
schedule off to a BANG! Free 
FIREWORKS compliments of 
Centel Cellular after the Irish 
take on Illinois-Chicago. 
Friday, 7:30pm Alumni Field 
Join the Irish Volleyball 
team as they host the 

MCC-MAC Challenge 
this weekend. The Irish 
will play both Friday and 


Saturday at 8:00pm in the JACC. 

TflEP()l\TE 

AT SAINT JOSEPH 
:for (jraduate Students andS[acu[ty 
We afso liave furnisliec£ e~cutive suites 
Office :J-fours: Moncfay-:Friday 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Saturday 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 
307 LaSaf{e Jl.venue, Soutli 'Bent{, Indiana 46617 
(219} 287-2684 
----~ ---~-~------~ 
Thursday, September 10, 1992 SPELUNKER 
-------~~----------------------------~------......, 
Today 
JAY HOSLER 
'J-)0 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
E\G\-\T ~lJ~DR8) Al'W ... t:cllJR 1-\lJI'oii)R£0 ~1\'ol'tT{ ·O"t. 5£'{£NT'{ -I}IR££ to\\LLIo~ ... T\-\00 Sf>..~\) .... 
I 



... SIX 1-\l.lNORED AND 
~tRI'(-Tlt'O.' 


\ '"'\j\ \
~~j 
BILL WATTERSON 
1\WS GElS £A'SIE.I2 W\-\E\'-1 T\-\E. NlJMBE\<5 f>...Rt. BIG. 
-

page 15 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

Calf delinquents 
CAMPUS Thursday 8 & 10:30 p.m. Film: "I Love You To Death," Cushing Auditorium. 
LECTURES 
Thursday 

4:15 p.m. Lecture: "The Other Within: Comments on the Tokyo War Crimes Trials," Ashis Nandy, Delhi, India. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kellogg In­stitute. 
Friday 

12:15 p.m. Friday Forum at the C.S.C. "Aging and Ethics: A Business and Economic Perspective," Professor Ken Milani . Room 124, Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns. 
MEN Notre Dame 
Roast Chicken Veal Parmesan Grinder Pasta Primavera 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Plats 
5 Separated 1 o Short ride 14 Basketball's 
Jazz 15 Peeling utensil 16 French river 17 Mindanao 
native 18 Official council 20 Acceptable 22 Gives 23 Type of type, for 
short 24 Wear for an unlucky skier 25 Made contact with 29 Rules 
33 Some cocktails 34 Poet Walter 
~Mare 
36 Balmacaan 37TV ad 38 Printer's 
bracket, for short 
39Sine~ 
40 Latin I word 42 G.l.'s need 43 Stock without 
an assigned value 45 Ice cream or beauty follower 47 Shown ostentatiously 49General Wingate 51 Dissembler 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
52 Slatterns 
55 Accounts­receivable clerks 
58 Limits 60 Arrow poison &1 Biblical giant 62 Is nomadic 63 E.r.a., e.g. 64 Cincinnati nine 65 Lean 66 Recipe amts. 
DOWN 

1 Waikiki wear 2Above 3 Fussy 4 Word with pea 
or straight 5 Horrifies 6 Former emcee 
on TV 7 J.F.K. abbr. a Souvenir 9 Three-hulled 
boat 

..:..!+=+=.:...j.:=-1 10 Corporeal 
~a]l!JII 11 Wall portion 
.! between windows 12"--lt Romantic?" J..:..=..I-=..J.:.:..j,;,~~+=-~.::. ~....,~~=+=-! 13 Final proceeds ~"""'"'=4'-'"+-'~ 19 Cathedral 
~~~~~~ section 
~ 21 Col -7-+=+:=+.-:+:+::::+::::-+=-1 25 Assn. for Kern 
and Kahn -=+=+=+:::-! 26 Type of butterfly ~:...:..J.:::....a..::.J 27 A round cheese 

28 Skin: Comb. form 30 Christening sponsors 31 Female swimmer 32 Cubic measure 35 Author Uris 38 Western sidekicks 41 Bratislava citizens 43 Catch a crook 

44 Certain teacher of the deaf 46 City in Utah 48 Crinkly fabric 56 Lop the crop so Prevent, in law 57 Matched pieces 52 Boom or gaff 
59 Actress­53 Rural path Marie Saint 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 

Sports 
page 16 
RICH KURZ 
Eye in the Sky 


Williams' return 
could mean big 
things for Irish 
It's official now. After rumors too numerous to count spread this past summer about the availability of Monty Williams to rejoin the Notre Dame basketball team, the University has cleared him to play. 
Anyone who remembers watching Monty play for the Irish during his freshman season, or has played against him in the Rock since then, knows what his return will mean to a Notre Dame team thin in talent. 
At six-foot-seven, Williams is tough inside and outside, and his ball­handling skills are remarkable. And despite not playing on the team the past two seasons, he will still be looked to 'for the senior leadership this year's squad will be in need of. 
The inevitable wondering will occur. Imagine how much better last season's team could have been with Williams in there. A few of those close losses would probably have gone the other way, and the Irish may have been wreaking havoc in the NCAA Tournament instead of the NIT. 
Though the Irish received bits of inspiration from junior center Jon Ross and junior forward Carl Cozen, they were not able to spell a tired LaPhonso Ellis as much as the Irish coaching staff would have wanted. 
Ellis would have been much more effective if he could have had Williams, in addition to Ross, to back him up. 
But that is all in the past. 
True Irish basketball fans will look to the upcoming season, and a team that until yesterday had a front line that looked very bleak with the absense of seniors Ellis and Keith Tower. 
Think of Williams being inserted into a lineup that will most likely consist of a core of young but experienced players like juniors Joe and Jon Ross, Cozen, Brooks Boyer, and sophomores Malik Russell, Billy Taylor, and Lamar Justice. 
Not bad for a team that lost one of the best senior class in the history of Notre Dame basketball. 
True, the Irish will be rough around the edges, but so was last year's squad with the addition of a revamped coaching staff. But by the end of the year the Irish had pulled off a myriad of stunning upsets and become the cinderellas of last year's college basketball season. 
This season the Irish will be fully adjusted to Coach John MacLeod's up­tempo offense and he will have a nice group of fresh legs to work with. 
Including a set that has been just itching to get back onto the ACC hardcourt for two long years. 
I can imagine it now... defending champ Duke falls to an inspired Irish squad at the ACC... Kentucky's Pitino helpless against the swarming Irish defense as yet another top 10 team falls ...Williams named Final Four MVPOne can always hope. 
INSIDE SPORTS 


·­
Thursday, September 10, 1992 

SMC volleyball opens year in Kalamazoo 
BY EILEEN MCGUIRE Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team will begin the 1992 season at the Kalamazoo College Tournament this Saturday. 
Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek, currently in her second season, is apprehensive about beginning the season with a tournament. but has confidence that the Belles will come out on top. 
"We've only had two weeks together including tryouts. However, we have more talent and depth which would make for a successful season," said Schroeder-Biek. 
The Belles possess six returners, two of whom are seniors -a recipe for great success. The ultimate goal for the volleyball team is simple: to acquire · more national attention and obtain a bid in the NCAA tournament. 
Last season, the Belles placed first in the nation in blocking percentage. Producing individual records in hitting percentage and sets achieved were senior co-captain Karen Lorton and junior Michelle Martino, respectively. 
Beginning Saturday, Schroeder-Biek would like to see the start of many more individual records. 
The team will have to defeat four of the eight teams in Saturday's confrontation in order to place in the tournament. The Belles will be facing Kalamazoo who, last year, was ranked third nationally. 
"We played them well last year," praised Coach Schroeder-Biek."This season, Kalamazoo lost many key play­ers so no one knows what to expect. 
"We're trying out a new defense this year. Hopefully, this tournament will allow us to work on it. I'm confident we'll do well." 

Guerrero starts college career off right 
BY MATT BOWER Sports Writer 
After flirting with disaster throughout the preseason, the Notre Dame women's soccer team has returned, with a new star for the future. Freshman Rosella Guerrero has stormed into the women's soccer scene, scoring 5 goals in Notre Dame's first two regular season games. 
A grim season was shaping up as four Notre Dame starters fell victim to injury. In addition to losing the three team captains: Margaret Jarc. Michelle Lodyga, and Denise Chabot, the Irish also had to play without their leading scorer, Stephanie Porter. Even Guerrero had to endure early season injuries. 

Buffomante speeding to the top of pack 
Photo courtesy of Island Thunder Racing Notre Dame junior Tony Buffomante, shown here in his Formula 2000 race car, hopes to be driving in the SCCA National Championships 
in October. 

BY JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
Gentlemen, start your engines. 
It's the command that starts the "Greatest Spectacle in Racing" and it's the command that Notre Dame junior Tony Buffomante hopes to hear in a few years. 
Buffomante, affectionately known as "T" and now in his seventh year of racing, is rapidly moving up through the divisions and levels of racing. He is currently racing a Formula 2000 car owned by Island Thunder Motor Sports. a small racing team composed of and financed by Buffomante's family and friends. 
The team is very important to Buffomante and his racing career. 
"It's a total team effort. Everyone helps out. Everyone has a job to do," said Buffomante. "It's always 'we' because I can't go to the track by myself and be good." 
The team includes Buffomante's parents. his sister, stock car driver Mike Stahl and anyone else who comes out to watch him. His roommates in St. Ed's and friends around campus have also become fans. 
This year, Grand Island, NY native has successfully competed on the Sports Car Club of America (SCCA) National circuit in the Northeast division finishing in the top five spots in five of the six races he ran. He was named the Rookie of the Year for the Northeast division for his performances. At the end of September, Buffomante will find out if his year was good enough to qualify him for the SCCA National Championship in October. 
The Formula 2000 car that he races is two steps below an Indy car that the "Big Boys" race.. With his success at the SCCA level, Buffomante sees an Indy car in his near future. 
"I want to run the next level in the next two years and get into an Indy car in the two years after that. Hopefully, I can be in an Indy car at age 23 or 24. I would like to be one of those guys who is one of the youngest to break into Indy cars," said Buffomante. 
"The 500 (Indianapolis 500) is a dream. Getting into Indy cars. everyone dreams of winning the 500. If I have four or five years experience at the Indy level, I feel that I'll be ready." 
Buffomante has already met some of the drivers on the Indy car circuit and has even raced against some of the younger ones including Scott Pruett and Paul Tracy. The 23 year old Tracy currently drives for racing magnate Roger Penske, but Buffomante has beaten him a few times. 
He has also met his racing hero, AI 
see THUNDER/page 12 


"I was hurt for a week and I had to sit out of practice. I was worried that I would be out of shape for the first game," said Guerrero 
Though many critics might have written off this injury-riddled team, head coach Chris Petrucelli knew his younger players would rise to the challenge. Petrucelli decided to start five freshman and four sophomores. "I am totally confident in their ability. It doesn't matter what year they are, they are just great players," noted Petrucelli. 
Guerrero immediately took advantage of the situation to prove herself as an Irish star of the future. She scored all three Irish goals in a heartbreaking loss to fifth­ranked North Carolina State. 
Coach Petrucelli commented after the game, "I didn't know if the team could even get three goals. No one could have guessed that she would do this." 
Guerrero's stellar perfor­mance continued into Tuesday's game with Butler University. She had a hand in all three Irish goals, scoring two and assisting junior Allison Lester on the third. Petrucelli commented, "She has really filled the hole created by Stephanie Porter's injury." 
Perhaps Guerrero's most valuable attribute is her great attitude. · 
"I love my teammates. If it wasn't for them I wouldn't be here. They are so supportive and they are always pushing you. They all have such a positive attitude," she remarked. 







