
server 
VOL. XXV. NO. 30 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1992 ~ THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Whisler is 
•

w1nner 1n• SMC race 
Observer Staff Report 
The Lisa Whisler!Liz Fedesna defeated the Juliet Stancato/Jen Woo ticket in the run-off elections for president and vice president of the Saint Mary's freshman class, according to Becky McLain, elections commissioner. 
Whisler/Fedesna won 50 per­cent of the 197 votes and Stan­cato/Woo received 49 percent; one percent abstained. 
Whisler and Fedesna must select a treasurer and secretary from the 13-member board of the freshman class, McLain said. 
The election committee penalized the Whisler ticket in the primary election after friends of the candidates ran a birthday advertisement in The Observer to wish them good luck in the election. The expense sent the ticket over the $50 limit set for campaign costs. 
Whisler decided not to appeal the decision, since the five per­cent penalty still left the ticket short of the majority needed to avoid a run-off. "We're glad that the whole confusion ... didn't interfere with the re­sults," said Fedesna. 

A little night light 

The scene of the Golden Dome and "Stonehenge" is highlighted by the light trail of a plane overhead. Recent warmth has made the nights comfortable on campus. 
Trustees hear report about Catholic teaching, research 
By BECKY BARNES Assistant News Editor 

The Student Affairs Commit­
tee of the Board of Trustees 
will express its support for 
establishing a "Center for 
Excellence in Teaching" at 
Notre Dame, as the result of a 
Student Government 
presentation to the committee 
Thursday, "Upholding the 
Mission: Teaching and 
Research at a National Catholic 
University." 

Such a center "should pro­vide services and programs for faculty at all levels, but espe­cially for new faculty and grad­uate students," said the report. 
The "Upholding the Mission" presentation, prepared by the Student Government Standing Committee for Undergraduate Education, follows last year's "Back to Basics" report to the Board. It draws on several other faculty and University re­ports, and focuses on common themes of improving the qual­ity of teaching, academic life, and undergraduate education. 
The goal of the report is to "reaffirm that students are still concerned, to keep the issues ( of "Back to Basics") alive," said Lynn Friedewald, chair of the Committee for Undergraduate Education. 
The Student Affairs Commit­tee of the Board acts as an "information line from the stu­
dents to the Board of 
Trustees," said a committee 
member. The Board then 
makes recommendations to 
University administration. "We 
don't have the power to grant 
wishes," said a trustee. The 
board's role is to "advise, 
exhort and persuade, rather 
than direct," he said. 

"Undergraduate education is the core of the University," the report reads. However, when many students are closed out of the classes they need, and when they think a class with 40 students is small, they come to believe they aren't getting the kind of education for which they are paying, said Friede­wald. 
"There must now be action on the part of the University before its only course is regret," she concluded. 
Although the report makes nine specific recommendations, discussion during the presentation focused on three main issues: the formation of a teaching center, the Hall Fel­lows Program, and the forma­tion of "gates." The committee wanted to highlight "issues where there is a concrete de­bate," said Student Body Presi­dent Greg Butrus. 
The, committee of trustees showed the most support for 
seeTRUSTEES/page 8 
Perot officially re-enters the presidential race 
DALLAS (AP) -Ross Perot Declaring his candidacy in the things right. plunged back into the presi­final month of the campaign Perot made the announce­dential race on Thursday, set­after bowing out in mid-July, ment at a packed, sometimes ting up a three-way struggle raucous news conference,
• Perot platform I page 1 0 
with President Bush and Bill saying he was in the race to win 
Clinton. He said the major par­the Texas billionaire declared: despite his meager standing in ties haven't tackled the nation's "Not only is government a mess, national polls. major economic problems but politics is also a mess." He "we can fix anything." suggested he was the one to set "My objective is not to commit 
Russia trip shows faculty fellow that 'think-tank' lacks solutions 
By JOHN LUCAS News Writer 
Boris Yeltsin's Russia is sink­ing down in a sea of economic, social and political problems that threaten to slow the pro­cess of arms reduction, visiting Faculty Fellow David Cortwright told an audience at the Hesburgh Institute for Peace Studies. 
• Russia privatizing/ page 5 
"The exuberant promises of last year have come upon hard realities... the outlook is not particularly promising," Cartwright said. 
Having returned from his seventh trip to Russia, Cortwright provided fresh in­sight on the current situation in the troubled country. Hosted by Mikhail Gorbachev's Foun­dation for International Studies in Moscow, Cortwright was able both to meet with gov­ernment officials and to discuss 

' the future of Russia with Foun­dation staffers. J 
see RUSSIA I page 8 

l 
I l ! 

political suicide," Perot said. 

Still, even though Perot once had support rivaling that of Bush and Clinton, recent polls show him a distant third. A na­tional tracking poll by Cable News Network and USA Today released on Thursday gave Perot only 7 percent support, 
compared to 52 percent for Clinton and 35 percent for Bush. 
Even so, his entry, coupled with the prospect of a series of October debates, had the effect of injecting uncertainty to a race that Clinton has led consis­tently since July. 

3:00 p.m. Campus Tour, Main Gate 
4:00 p.m. Women's Cross Country, Burke Golf Course 
4:30 p.m. Marching Band Rehearsal, Main Building 
4:45 p.m. Men's Cross Country, Burke Golf Course 
5:00 p.m. Women's Soccer vs. Madison, Alumni Field 
7:00 
p.m. Pep Rally, J.A.C.C. 

7:00 
p.m. Folk Choir Concert, 


Holy Cross Brothers Center 7:30p.m. Men's Soccer vs. Madison, Alumni Field 
8:00 p.m. Photo Buttons, LaFortune Student Center 
9:00 a.m. Pregame Tailgate Party, Morris Inn Patio 9:00a.m. NO, SMC, HCC Alumni Hospitality Center, 
J.A.C.C.  
10:30 a.m.  Glee Club Concert, J.A.C.C.  
1 0:30 a.m.  Porn Pan Squad and  
Cheerleading Performance, Bookstore  
11:00 a.m.  Shenanigans Performance, J.A.C.C.  
11:00 a.m.  Band Concert, Main Building  

12:35 p.m. Football Kickoff, Notre Dame Stadium 
5:00 p.m. Vigil Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
6, 7, 8, 9:30, and 11 a.m. Mass, Sacred Heart Crypt 8, 1 0, and 11 :45 a.m. Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
4:00 p.m. Spanish Mass, Breen-Phillips Chapel page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Our culture perpetuates faulty core of values 
Most of us never realize the significance of our actions. Simple gestures such as a hand shake are based on a social construction that has been passed on and 


relearned by subsequent By Stephen generations. In turn, our zavestoski actions, through a Associate News process endowing actions Editor with symbolic meaning,-------­are based on certain core values. Unfortunately, because we so often fail to realize the deeper meaning of an act or a gesture, we also fail to realize when our cultural practices perpetuate beliefs based on faulty core values. 
One such practice, Notre Dame football, has reached the end of its effectiveness as a social construct. The negatives generated by this money-making machine outweigh the positives. First, we must understand the pervasiveness and penetrating effects of not just "the game," but all of the symbolism and iconography attached to the game and, more specifically, the role it plays in our society. 
Most people associated with Notre Dame value Notre Dame football. We are capable of holding this, or any value, because of our reasoning faculties. Likewise, we are capable of examining those values, and prioritizing them based on deeper, innate core values. We can take any human value and, through a process of "reasoning to ground," discover on exactly which core value that lesser value is based. 
Now, in examining Notre Dame football as a value we hold, we can reason to ground in order to find out on what core values it is based. 
For instance, many people value Notre 
Dame football because they can become a part 
of a greater collective which represents power 
and dominance, as well as the more specific 
collective of the University itself. But these 
values are linked to competitiveness and 
capitalism-two values which are in turn linked 
to selfishness and greed. 

These values are not at all associated, however, with our more fundamental and natural core values of justice and compassion. The competition and maximization of material wealth inherent in Notre Dame football exclude it from such a value structure. 
The real tragedy in holding Notre Dame football so high in our value hierarchy is that we are less likely to question it. It is vital, however, that we question this value; that we realize that it is based on core values that are contradictory to our human tendencies toward justice and compassion. 
But because only the voice of the dominant 
paradigm can be heard, it will take this voice 
losing some of its power before the other 
voices, those crying for a more practical, more 
sustainable, and more realistic worldview, can 
be heard. 

Today's Staff 
News Mike O'Hara Sandy Wiegand  Production Susan Marx Whitney Sheets  
Sports Brian Kubicki Mike Scrudato  Systems Cesar Capella  
Viewpoint Allison Ebel Graphics Brendan Regan  Accent Jennifer Guerin Terry Edwards Tomi Otey  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Tuesday, September 29, 1992
The Observer 
1

WEAIIR Fl~BIRii••····. iiilifflr~~9~!i~~.~~Yl ~~~~f~i· :························ IrECASt 
.... '''"'''''''''''":':::'::'::': ··'''''' ''""''·:::,:,.,,:,:-.·<<·· .,...... ··· ·· ······..·.·.·..·. ·· '.:."::'.)f:-:'f> ··.·.·, ,·,:'''}':',:::::,: ·>>·''"''''''""'"''"''''"". ···.·.· """"··,:::,,,. "·'·''"''""''""'' .., ..... n w1'th h'ghs 1'n 
· · '·'·"'''''''"' "'''''''''::::',:::::::::;::::::: ::: ::::, ''<": :::::::-:': :' .:>:>':" ' " '· ·.·. "."'':::::::'>::>:': ,,,,,,,,,,,,,::,:_:::.:.:::::::::.....·..·. ."'' "'"''''':'' ·:::.: ::-:.:, '"'' :::);:::;:::.:,:::: > . ,::,un y 1 
... ·.-.· ·.•.·.·•·.·.·.·.·. :-.·:-:-;.:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·> .•.. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
© 1992 Accu-Weather, Inc. < 
Pressure 

H L 
~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWEqs RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

... ·········.·.··.·.·.·:.·.·.·.· ............. 
.. ···.·.··:···· ·.·..· ·.·.··,·,·,·,·,·..·.·.·.·.· .·.·.··. ·.··-:-:-;.: 

. . ·:<<· :-:-:-:-.-:;::.:::::>:::-.;::::: ::;.:-:;:;:;.;.·:: :;:::-:-:-: :-:-: <<<·>: -:.; ..... ·•· . . -:-:-:-:-:-1-".· . . . . . . . . :;:::::·:-:-···.;.·-·.·. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Fischer and Spassky play 13th game 
• BELGRADE, Yugoslavia -Boris Spassky tried today to win his second straight game and cut Bobby Fis­cher's lead in their $5 million chess rematch. Spassky narrowed the series to 5-3 on Wednesday after forcing the American to retire on the 54th move. There was a brief applause for Fischer when he entered the hall at Belgrade's Sava Center, but there was no reaction when Spassky appeared. The previous games were played in the Montenegrin coastal resort of Sveti Stefan. The players had a 1 0-day break before resuming play in Belgrade. The $3.35 million first prize goes to the first player to win 10 games, with the loser getting the balance of $1.65 million. Fischer, 49, defeated the Russian-born Spassky, now a French citizen, for the world title in 1972. 
NATIONAL 
Exorcism proves fatal 
• SANTA ANA, Calif. -A couple obsessed with trying to rid their 5-year-old daughter of demons drowned her in a bathtub during an attempted exorcism and buried her on a Mexican beach, a prosecutor says. Marcos Escamilla Morales, 56, and his wife, Beatriz Irene Morales, 47, are charged with the November 1978 murder of their daughter, Lisa. "They constantly referred to her as the evil one, the devil," he said. The girl's body was disposed of on a beach near Tijuana, Mexico, but it has not been found. Despite earlier claims that Lisa had been privately adopted, Mrs. 
OF INTEREST 
• Logan Center Volunteers, meet at 3:45 p.m. at the 
P.W. circle for van pick-up if you want to go bowling. 
• An Alcoholics Anonymous meeting will be held tomorrow at 9:30 a.m., as well as every home-game Saturday morning in the multipurpose room of the Cen­ter for Social Concerns. 
MARKET UPDATE YESTERDAY'S TRADING October 1 
VOLUME IN SHARES 224,371.680 

NYSEINDEX 
+0.56 to 229.46 
S&P COMPOSITE 
+1.00 to 417.80 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
+4.86 to 3,291.66 
GOLD 
-$0.40 to $347.80 oz 
SILVER 
+$0.14 to $3.762 oz 

the 70s. Cool tonight 
with lows around 50. Mostly sunny Saturday with highs 
in the upper 70s. 

TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  41  29  
Atlanta  68  52  
Bogota  70  41  
Boston  53  36  
Cairo  86  66  
Chicago  74  41  
Cleveland  67  38  
Dallas  79  53  
Detroit  68  39  
Indianapolis  70  43  
Jerusalem  82  63  
London  63  50  
Los Angeles  94  73  
Madrid  81  52  
Minneapolis  80  48  
Moscow  57  45  
Nashville  73  44  
New York  59  39  
Paris  66  50  
Philadelphia  60  41  
Rome  82  61  
Seattle  71  53  
South Bend  72  43  
Tokyo  72  66  
Washington, D.C.  64  45  


Morales' attorney has conceded that Lisa died at home. But he has argued that there is no evidence of a murder or who did it. Her husband's attorney has said that since Lisa's body ltas never been found, there is no evidence of a death. 
CAMPUS Guest recital to be held on Sunday 
• NOTRE DAME -The Boston Museum Trio will perform a guest recital Sunday at 2 p.m. in the An­nenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. The ensemble -harpsichordist John Gibbons, Laura Jeppesen on viola da gamba and baroque violinist Daniel Stepner -will perform eighteenth century works by Johann Sebastian Bach, Guiseppe Tartini, Domenica Scarlatti and Jean-Philippe Rameau. The trio, founded in 1973, became the resident performing ensemble at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, where they offer an annual series of concerts. Sunday's show is $5 for general admission and $2 for students and senior citizens. 
Sorjn talent show will benefit charity 
• 
NOTRE DAME -A talent show will be held tonight on the Sorin steps at 8 p.m. The show is being held as a charity event for two local charities. If $1000 is raised ($500 for the Center for the Homeless and $500 for Big Brothers/Big Sisters of South Bound} Scott Cur­tis, a co-president at Sorin, will have his head shaved bald onstage. Donations can be made by calling 283­4302 and asking for Chris or by bringing money to the show. 

• 
A Spanish Mass will be held Sunday at 10:30 a.m. in the Breen-Phillips Chapel. The celebrant will be Father Richard Wilkinson and the Mass is sponsored by Campus Ministry and HAO. 


• Wrestling coaching opportunity is available. 
Anyone interested in coaching grade school students in a wrestling program at St. Matthews grade school please contact Doug Block at 291-1526 or Mary Niedbalski at 233-9760. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1901: A rebel attack in the Philippines killed 48 Amencans. 

• 
In 1932: Fifteen thousand workers at a General Motors plant in Detroit began a five-day work week. 

•In 
1943: Adolf Hitler's book "Mein Kampf" was published in the U.S. 

• 
In 1950: United Nations troops recaptured the South 


Korean city of Seoul three months after it fell to the Communists. 
• In 1982: Cyanide-laced Tylenol capsules killed seven people in Chicago. 
--.. ---... --------_---~ --•• c: 
Friday, October 2, 1992 page 3 
The Observer 



Folk choir to present sacred music tonight 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Folk Choir will present a con­cert of sacred music tonight at 7 p.m. in the Holy Cross Brother's Center on the Holy Cross College campus. 
The concert, intended to raise money for the Holy Cross Fam­ily Catholic Worker House in South Bend, will feature an ensemble of singers and in­strumentalists. A collection for the house will be taken during the choir's performance. 
The arrangements of sacred music to be performed will in­clude four-part choral har­monies, flute and strings, gui­tar, Irish harp and Irish drum. 
The choir's recordings include "Mass on the Feast of St. Patrick," a collection of ancient and contemporary Irish sacred music; "A Companion to Prayer," recorded with the monks of Gethsemene Abbey in Trappist, Ky.; and "Common Song," a collection of instru­mental and sacred music. 
Earlier this year, the choir toured Ireland. 
Holy Family Catholic Worker House was founded in 1987 by a small group of Catholic laypeople. Under the direction of Sister Suzanne Patterson, it offers hospitality to homeless families and women in the per­sonal tradition of the Catholic Worker movement. 
Thank you for a wonderful year
Arhy Lynn Chadwell!!! 

You're so SMOOOTH ... 

MARIGOLD MARKET 
lET US PREPARE YOUR TAllOATE PICNIC. so YOU CAN ENJoy THE 6Alv1 E! 
GRAPE.~CLEVELAND 272·1922 
The Observer/Pat McHugh 
Enjoy it while it lasts 

Students enjoy the abnormally warm weather yesterday by the Evans Memorial Crossroads Fountain. Pretty soon, however, the good weather and the fountain water will both disappear. 

BRUNO'S PIZZA 


Made from scratch Italian Pizza and Pasta 
288-3320 
Welcome ND Parents! 
GO ND!! BEAT STANFORD!! 


WE'RE SHELLING OuT 


If you like prime rib and seafood, your ship has come in at the Wharf! Choose from four delicious combinations. 
• 
Prime Rib and Snowcrab Legs • Prime Rib and SJ;trimp Scampi 

• 
Prime Rib and Almond Shrimp • llb. of Snowcrab Legs 



Each of these dinners includes coleslaw, vegetable of the day, and choice of potato or rice. And it's all just $12.95! 
So, don't you think it's prime time you set sail for the Wharf? But hurry, it's only for a limited time. 
300 E. Colfax at the River 234-4477 

Early resuIts 
of Angolan elections in 
LUANDA, Angola (AP) ­
President Jose Eduardo dos 
Santos enjoyed a powerful lead 
over former rebel leader Jonas 
Savimbi in early returns 
Thursday from Angola's first 
democratic elections. 

The early returns -up to 5 
percent of the vote in 10 out of 
18 provinces -showed the 
ruling Popular Movement for 
the Liberation of Angola, or 
MPLA, winning 67 percent of 
the legislative ballots, and dos 
Santos with 66 percent in the 
presidential election. 

The National Union for the 
Total Independence of Angola, 
the U.S.-backed rebel group­
turned-opposition party, had 
25.6 percent, according to the returns. Its leader, Savimbi, had 27.6 percent of the presi­dential vote. 
A spokesman for the opposi­
tion party, known by its initials 
UNITA, claimed the early re­
sults were unrepresentative of 
voting patterns across the vast 
southern African nation. 

"We're getting positive results 
for UNITA in all parts of 
Angola," said Jorge Valentin. 
But Valentin said he had no 
complaints about the voting 
process. 
Angolans waited nervously 
for the results, which could 
take a week to count, wonder­
ing whether the loser would 
accept them as free and fair or 
react with violence. 
The two parties fought a bit­ter, 16-year civil war that killed at least 350,000 people and devastated the once-prosperous former Portuguese colony before a truce was declared in May 1991. 
The MPlA was supported by Cuban troops and Soviet arms. As the conflict escalated into a Cold War conflict, the United States sent arms, and South Africa sent soldiers to back Savimbi's rebels. 
The results from the National Electoral Council will be subject to a recount if requested by one of the 18 parties participating in the election. 
None of the smaller parties gained more than 2 percent in the preliminary tally. 
The first official results came 12 hours later than expected as officials painstakingly counted the paper ballots. 
-. ' 1 ' • ' _ •_ • • :..._ • , • --• ' _ ~ • ' , _1 • -• ' ' • , ''~ • , ~ • • , , ~ _, .. r _ , ­
page 4 The Observer Friday, October 2,1992 


FoR MY PART DECLARE To You, You ARE "RocK," AND ON THIS RocK I WILL BuiLD MY CHURCH, 
AND THE }AWS OF DEATH SHALL 
NoT PREVAIL AGAINST IT. I WILL 
ENTRUST To You THE KEYS OF THE 
KINGDOM OF HEAVEN. WHATEVER 
You DECLARE BouND ON EARTH 
SHALL BE BOUND IN HEAVEN • 
... ­
. MATTHEW 16:18--19 
• 

o ONE MAY, IN Goon 
~ 
' 
CONSCIENCE, SUPPORT A 
' 
' 
r CANDIDATE FOR POLITICAL
r 
~ 
' 
r 
OFFICE WHO FAVORS ABORTION OR 
t ' 
' .
' 
t 
THE FUNDING OF ABORTION. . 
~ 
I 
. ' ' 
r
•I 
r~ 
THE SACRED CONGREGATION FoR THE 
~ 
' 
' ~ 
I 
DOCTRINE OF THE FAITH 1978
' 
' 
~ 
' 



Friday, October 2, 1992 
Gorbachev is ordered to testify about Party 
MOSCOW {AP) -The Constitutional Court on Thursday issued a new demand for Mikhail Gorbachev to testify in a trial on the fate of the banned Communist Party, hinting it may bring him to court by force. 
The court's resolution warned Gorbachev that "as a Russian Federation citizen, he has no right to evade the law." 
The 13-man panel last week summoned Gorbachev and several other former Soviet officials to testify. Al­most all the others have agreed to appear. Gorbachev refused, saying the trial ..may aggravate the social and political situation in the country." 
The court is trying to rule on the legality of President Boris Yeltsin's decree last year that banned the party. 
If the ban is overturned, it could seriously damage Yeltsin's authority. 
Gorbachev issued no for­mal response to the newest resolution. But Vladimir Tumarkin, his press officer, said he doubted Gorbachev would give in. 
"From all signs, his per­sonal feeling is that he won't change his position," Tumarkin said outside the courtroom. 
If Gorbachev fails to com­ply, the court said, it will "use all means envisaged in the Constitution and laws to ensure that the hearings are full, objective and comprehensive." 
Gorbachev, the Soviet president from 1985 until December, could be brought before the court by force, under legal codes cited in the resolution. 
The Observer page 5 
Russia launches privatization 
Vouchers give citizens a chance at ownership 
MOSCOW (AP)-The Russian government on Thursday began distributing vouchers that will give its 148 million citizens a chance to become capitalists by taking ownership of state companies built during seven decades of communism. 
The privatization program, the centerpiece of President Boris Yeltsin 's economic re­forms, is an experiment on an unprecedented scale to trans­form a centralized economy into a free market. Critics have accused the president of selling out the country. 
The program will open up more than 6,000 state-owned shops, factories and other businesses to private investors who can buy into them at auc­tions with vouchers and rubles. 
Despite a government adver­tising blitz, the program was immediately beset by confusion over how to get the "privatization vouchers," how to use them, what companies would become available, and 

THE 
when they would be put on the auction block. It was too early to predict its success or failure. 
The cream-colored vouchers have a face value of 10,000 rubles, or about twice the aver­age monthly salary. They pre­sented a bewildering array of options to a people taught that private ownership meant ex­ploitation. Many Russians, per­plexed and suspicious, were expected to sell their vouchers instead of becoming investors. 
"I don't think we need vouchers. We aren't used to things like stocks and vouchers in this country," said Natalya Dubyanskaya, 81, a retired mi­crobiologist who said she will sell her certificate. 
Opposition leaders criticized the government for betraying the country. 
"Hordes of Vouchers Attack Russia," read a headline Thursday in Pravda, the voice of the hard-line opposition to Yeltsin 's government. Other headlines in the newspaper 

COME JOIN "MOOSE" KRAUSE OR A SPECIAL AUTOGRAPH SESS/0 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2Nll 
AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" (from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m.) 
.,._ 

.. 
read: ..People's Property Given 
to Criminals" and "Survival 
Hardly Possible." 

The government hopes people will band together and pool their vouchers to purchase small stores or obtain shares in mutual funds that invest in large businesses. The great sell­off of state property won't begin before Dec. 1; the certificates are valid from Dec. 1, 1992, to Dec. 31, 1993. 
Russia's most valuable assets, however, remain off-limits to investors for now. The privati­zation plan excludes municipal property, as well as nuclear power stations, defense facili­ties, pipelines, and vast mineral resources and forests, which will remain under state control. The vouchers are not legal ten­der and cannot be used to buy land. 
Many large enterprises have been spared for now, and others-such as a large limou­sine factory -were taken pri­vate before the vouchers were issued. 
Sarajevans share horror of 'cleansing' 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -They made Fadil Dedic kneel, stripped him to the waist, and shoved a pistol in his mouth. They threatened Enver Dzelilovic's mother with a knife and kicked Jozefina Gliha when she tried to prevent her daughter from being abducted by Serb forces. 
Muslim and Croat residents of a Serb-controlled section of Sarajevo told harrowing tales Thursday of four months of oc­cupation by Serb militias and a sudden sweep to "cleanse" the area of non-Serbians. 
Relatively safe, seated in a ' ' central Sarajevo school with ~. I their few belongings, each also had stories to tell of Serb neighbors who helped them ­and in some cases may have saved their lives. 
The sudden move to clear Grbavica, a neighborhood across the Miljacka River from the center of Sarajevo, could be connected to nascent moves to find a negotiated settlement to the siege of Sarajevo and six months of warfare throughout Bosnia. 
By evicting all non-Serbs from the area, Serb Bosnian forces could more easily lay claim to keeping it as a bargaining chip or a toehold in Sarajevo, a multi-ethnic city of 400,000 residents. 
Government officials said the recent spate of "ethnic cleans­ing" created 550 refugees. 
The refugees said they had 15 minutes to pack up and leave their apartments. They were harassed, but agreed there was little violence. 
However, they said able-bod­ied men of fighting age were not allowed to leave. No one knows what happened to them, but Bosnian government sol­diers stationed across the Mil­jacka River said they heard screams until early Thursday morning. 
The number of detained men was not known but appeared to be scores. One of the refugees, Enver Dzelilovic, said 56 people carne out with his group but about 30 men were left behind. 
page 6 The Observer Friday, October 2,1992 


!
;i 
r 
} 
! ( 
')
\ 
( 
t 
t 
r 
r4
f 
'J 
l ~ 
' 
~ 
·} 
t ·~ f 
f 
( 
' 
1 
f 
... 
) 
i 
; ' 
f 
I 
~ 
J 
f 
t 
:! 

FIRESID__E CHATS 
..-;:=--: ----: ' 

MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL OCTOBER 5TH-9TH, 12:00-1 :OOpm 
MONDAY Mr. Paul Reese, AARP Aging in America Ms. Molly Toole 
TUESDAY Prof. Ava Collins Multiculturalism and the Media 
WEDNESDAY Prof. Khalil Matta The Middle East Peace Process 
THURSDAY 
Fr. Tom McDermott The Cultures of East Africa 
FRIDAY Ms. Rosemary Haughton Homelessness: Song in a Strange Land 
FREE LUNCH INCLUDED 

~--------------------------------.-------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------~---­
Friday, October 2, 1992 The Observer page 7 
British, German relations take a dive along with the pound 
LONDON (AP) -The slide of In a challenge to burgeoning the European Community was the British pound has brought anti-European sentiment in his supposed to bury. Britain's relations with Ger­divided Conservative Party, Ma­The anti-German rhetoric has many along for the ride. jor also pledged to submit to also been fueled by an un­
The dispute between the two Parliament by early next year a derlying fear of the might of free-market champions of Eu­bill to ratify a treaty on closer unified Germany. Most recently, rope has roused ghosts of World union of the European Com­Britons were offended by War II. The rhetoric had munity. German plans -later scrapped sharpened to such a point -to celebrate the V2 rocket, Thursday that Prime Minister The principal strain between which killed thousands of John Major urged a cooling-off Germany and Britain is money British civilians in World War II. period. -specifically the pound's 
downturn and Germany's re­"Humiliated economically and 
"I think it is time to draw a fusal to cut interest rates fur­frightened politically, we return line under this war of words ther. to the war years," wrote Times with Germany," said Major, the of London columnist Bryan current president of the 12-British anger is often laced Appleyard, after Princess Diana nation European Community, with references to Nazis, in recently decided to swap her after the latest diplomatic con­what many see as a disturbing Mercedes-Benz for a British frontation. revival of historic animosities car. 
Syrian leader asked 
Bring this coupon to 
The Observer/Andrea Fisk 
Day In and day out
Little Professor and receive 
tQ U•N• peace taI k s Sophomore Katie Wood shares her schedule with her parents who 
came in from California for Parent's Weekend. 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -Israel's foreign~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ inister on Thursday invited Syrian President • •
$1 OFF b a Czech parliament rejects 
I afez al-Assad to a summit to discuss 
comprehensive peace accord between their a purchase of $5 or more or... 
ations, but hours later his boss called such talk b k f d 
r~~a~~~ftation by Foreign Minister Shimon Peres rea up sans r e ere n u m arne in a speech to the 47th General Assembly and PRAGUE Czechoslovakia (AP) or Slovak parliaments could 'ndicated Israel is ready to give up some of the_ Czech~slovakia's federal pass their own bills breaking up

$20FF 
olan Heights, won in the 1967 Mideast War, in Parliament on Thursday the country. Another possibility xchange for peace. defeated a measure that would would be a peaceful secession 
a purchase of $10 or more or ... 
"We ~ave made clear to the S~rians th~t U:N. have permitted the Czech and of one republic from the r~solu~wns 242. and 3.38 contam a terntonal Slovak republics to quickly sep-federation. dtmenswn, combmed With other aspects of peace arate without holding a refer­and security, which must be equally respected," endum. 
"The defeat of the bill 
IPeres said. The vote was a bitter and un­changes nothing in Slovakia's . "The le.aders of both .co~ntries ~hould ~e directly expected defeat for Czech resolve to leave the federation," a purchase of $15 or more. 

$30FF 
mvolved m these negotiatiOns, which are m need of Premier Vaclav Klaus and Slo-said Ivan Gasparovic. speaker new approaches and creative thinking. vak Premier Vladimir Meciar, of the Slovak Parliament, 
On~ discount wlecbon per CU51omer; olfer valid only on regularly-priced books 
"I call. on the president. of Syria ~o set .a~ide his who agreed after winning June according to the official CSTK
in slod< ond not valid with other diocounts. 
reservatiOns and meet With the prime mmister of elections that their republics news agency. ls.J:aal." ·· -· would become fully separate -"The federation is falling
But latP.r Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said on states in 1993. apart whether we like it or not,11~-1BQLITOTLKEPCR~oEF NE5 sT..,.OERR. Israel TV, "Talk of a summit is premature." the point is to find a smooth and l 1 He said that eventually, an lsraeli-Syrian summit In a further challenge, Par-quiet mechanism for its 
We help you {i11d books you'lllove. 1is necessary as the final step before a peace treaty liament ordered a commission dissolution," Klaus said after IronwoodPlazaNorth •neartheNewMartin's !was signed. "But} do~'t se~ that h~ppening in the to prepare legislation for a fu-the vote. He accused his oppo­

State Road 23 at Ironwood • South Bend !,next few months, Rabm said, laughmg. 277-4488 • Mon.-Sat.: 10:00-9:00 • Sunday: 10:00-5:00 : Israel and Syria are still technically at war. 
1 -~=========-========::::1.! 
• 


Ice Cream 
Now being served at your favorite campus 
restaurants and 
eateries! 
My Daddy Makes The Best Ice Cream For the 
~~\NG ~/tf<'(j ol ~ .... Notre Dame ~ 
ture "Czecho-Slovak Union" in nents of wanting "nothing ex­which the two republics would 
cept creating chaos." coord'mate economic. and de­fense policies. Despite their leaders' pledge, 
The proposed union would polls show less than 40 percent have a president, legislature of Czechoslovakia's voters ac­and governing council, although tually want the country divided 
most power would rest with into independent Slovak and separate Czech and Slovak Czech states. parliaments. Ever since the bloodless revo­
It was not immediately clear lution in 1989, Czechs and Slo­what the next step would be. vaks have differed over post­One possibility is that the Czech Communist reforms. 

THE 

~0~uuE PAR{o 
Fe a turing '/iBeef, Chicken, Seafood and Vegetarian Fondue Entrees 
And Our Famous Flaming Chocolate Dessert 
Welcome ND Parents! Upper Level Old Brewery 100 Center Comple~ Mishawaka • Phone: 255-1526 Tue.-Thur. 5-9 p.m. • Fri.-Sat. 5-10 p.m. 
Reservations Appreciated 
HAPP't7 BIRTHDAY 

THE BIG Guv 

The Observer Friday, October 2, 1992
page 8 

Trustees 
continued from page 1 
the formation of the teaching center. Board members praised the recommendations for their emphasis on improving the teachers already here. 
"There isn't enough money here to tell students that they are going to be taught by a se­nior professor all the time," said a trustee. Because of this lack of professors, many de­partments have graduate stu­dents teaching classes. students who may not have any teaching experience. 
"It's very difficult for graduate students to come in and teach a class without having any idea how to teach a class," said Christina Rieger, a member of the Graduate Student Union and a report committee member. 
The report recommends the formation of a teaching center as a long-term goal for improv­ing the quality of teaching by graduate students and faculty, but it also suggests implement­ing orientation and instruc­tional programs for teaching assistants as a short term solu­tion. 
Board members expressed their support for the teaching center and said it is "compatible with the whole idea of moving forward as a re­search university." 
The report also "calls upon students to take initiative in im­proving their learning experi­ence," said Friedewald. In re­turn, this initiative "must be re­ciprocated by administration and faculty." 
Students can show their in­terest in academics through the Hall Fellows Program, a pro­gram in which each residence hall chooses a faculty member to participate in dorm events. Several dorms have an active program now, but it has de­clined in many halls, said Stu­dent Body Vice President Molly O'Neill. 
This program "can really serve to integrate academic life and dorm life," said O'Neill. 
Board members expressed a positive interest in the program, but finally decided there was little for the Board to do in implementing it. "It's here on the campus, and hopefully if enough people want to do it, they'll do it," said a trustee. 
Discussion also centered on 


• CONVENIENT LOCATION Huntington, Long Island campus is easily reached by public or private transportation. 
8 DAY AND EVENING CLASSES Select either a Full-Time Day, Part·Time Day, or Part-Time Evening schedule. 


Sophomore Katie Barton struggles up the steps of Farley after a 
long day of band practice. 

the topic of gates, which the report defined as an institu­tional barrier which limits the number of students allowed in each discipline at the Univer­sity." Although no such policy is currently followed at Notre Dame, the Undergraduate Af­fairs Committee expressed concern that it might be con­sidered at some future time. 
Trustees expressed support for the committee's position and called the discussion a "preventive defense" measure. 
Board members also promised to help in obtaining statistical data relating to the issues raised in the report. The student government committee has attempted without success to gain this information. 
"We share your dismay with what has not happened so far. We will support and do what­ever we can to obtain reason­ably accurate data on the sub­jects you need," said a board member. 
Both student government members and trustees were pleased with the outcome of the presentation. 
TksMALAt\AR txceU.ent 1ndtan Cutslne 
OPEN 
Tua. ·· SGt. 5:00,.. 
REttSlP.lT\.OWS DES\JltD 
17Dt 501lTK BIMD :AVE. 
(DUOH .MU.E. 21) 
(211) 271-0115 
If you wish to receive admission materials and/or arrange for a campus visit, you are encouraged to contact 
Office of Admission Jacob D. Fuchsberg Ulw Center 300 Nassau Road Huntington, New York 11743 


Phone

• ACCREDITATION TOURO COLLEGE The Law Center is Fully (516) 421·2244 Approved by the American r1f1
JACOB D.

Bar Association. ext. 314 
FUCHSBERG ~ 
an affirmative aC1ion I

LAW CENTER 
equal opportunity insti1ution 
"I think (the Board) will rep­resent our concerns well," said Friedewald. "They seem to recognize the importance of the quality of teaching, and the classroom situation problems." 
"We're very excited and pleased that students are that interested in improving educa­tion," said a trustee. 
However, this report does not end the issue, said members of both committees. The board requested that a future report convey student preferences for either large classes taught by a professor or smaller classes with graduate student teaching assistants. 
"I think (this report) has been instructive, but it cannot be the end," said a trustee. We need to have a conclusion to "Back to Basics," and the Board is look­ing forward to it." 
Russia 
continued from page 1 

since his ouster as President of Russia. Serving as an interna­tional "think-tank" in which solutions to economic, global, social, and disarmament prob­lems may be devised and pre­sented to governments for im­plementation, the group gath­ers information and writes po­sition papers on a variety of topics. 
According to Cortwright, the Foundation has fallen short of its lofty goals. Cartwright claims he "could learn just as much by reading the daily newspaper," as from the group. Although it employs 200 researchers, he explained, "the Foundation has little or no role in influencing the government. They are viewed as has-beens." 
Despite the failures of the Gorbachev Foundation, Cortwright was able to discover much about the condition in the Commonwealth of Independent States and presented several ideas of how the United States could help. He explained that the Commonwealth faces both poverty and inflation problems that have become dramatically worse since the end of Com­munist rule in 1991. 
"It's pretty much the poverty of old; only before it was cov­ered up better," Cortwright said. 
Cartwright suggested the Bush administration could do more both to encourage private investment and to put pressure on the International Monetary Fund to end the so-called "economic shock therapy" Rus­sia is now undergoing. 
Failure to provide "economic assistance and encouragement" could result in a slow-down of disarmament or return to hard-line rule. he said. 
"Russian proliferation of nu­clear weapons is a clear and present danger that must be addressed. Since the fate of Russia and the United States is intertwined, we must work together for a new partnership for reform," Cartwright said. 
Cortwright said he "hoped Clinton would seize the opportunities that exist to jump ahead." 
"The political situation is volatile, but overall, the people still have a tremendous sense of optimism and hope," Cartwright said. 
NOW OPEN IN MISHAWAKA 
SZECHWAN GARDEN 
Chinese Restaurant Daily lwlcheon Specials Mon.-Sat. til 3.a pm Sunday Buffet 11:30~ SJ95 
• 6 Entrees • Soups
• Salads • Appetizers • Desserts 
Carry Out Service Available 
3 W. McKinley, Mishawaka 
255-6868 
(Just mt of Graoe Rd. 01 McKinley) 
S2.00 OFF 
(EXCLUDES SALE ITEMS, USED,  
ANY REOUL"R PRICED  SINGLES, AND BUnGETS)  
CASSETTF OR  COUPON EXf'lnES  I 2-3 1 -9 2  
COMPACT DISC  liMIT ONE f'ER CUSTOMEn I'ER VISIT  


I!IJ!IIIII-1111!11-------------------------------------------------------­
----~---~-­
page 9 Friday, October 2, 1992 The Observer 

Banker who loaned to Iraq alters plea ongress negotiates a 
ATLANTA (AP) -A judge Italy's government-owned District Judge Marvin Shoob to threw out a plea agreement Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, throw out the plea bargain. 
Pentagon spending blll 
Thursday and cleared the way will be tried on 347 counts of Shoob agreed. for a trial for a former bank bank fraud. He pleaded guilty ..Drogoul cannot have it both WASHINGTON (AP) -. It also seeks to force the manager on charges of mas­in June to 60 counts, but later ways," said acting U.S. Attorney House and Senate negotia­Pentagon to choose terminding a scheme to loan tried to withdraw the plea, Gerrilyn Brill. "He can't plead tors reached agreement between competing Iraq $5.5 billion during its pre­saying he was made a scape­guilty, ask the court for leniency Thursday on a $274,3 programs for the next Gulf War military buildup. goat by top BNL officials. and project a public image of billion Pentagon spending generation of tactical 
A lengthy trial is now ex­Drogoul, 43, could have been innocence. There is no middle bill for the coming year that aircraft by providing money pected in the case, which has sentenced to life in prison, fined ground." cuts $1 billion from for the AX long·range raised questions about whether $17.5 million and ordered to The case's change in direction President Bush's request bomber, the developmental the Bush administration cov­pay $1.8 billion in restitution came a day after Drogoul's for the futuristic Strategic F-22 Air Force fighter and ered up its role in arming Sad­for the 60 counts. attorney, Bobby Lee Cook, pre­Defense Initiative anti­upgrades of the F-18 dam Hussein before the war. At a sentencing hearing sented a mysterious document ntissle system. fighter. But it withholds Christopher Drogoul, former Thursday, prosecutors reversed countering the prosecution's The bill also provided about one-third of the Atlanta branch manager for themselves and asked U.S. contention that Drogoul alone $2.7 billion to round out the money until the Pentagon masterminded the loan scheme. Air Force·s fleet of B-2 makes key decisions about 
Cook presented a document Stealth bombers at 20 which programs to pursue. purportedly showing BNL offi­planes, and about $1.5 "Everybody looking at the cials had sought assurances billion for· programs to help tactical air package knows through an intermediary from defense industries and you can't buy them all/~ then-U.S. Attorney General Dick workers make the said Senate Armed Service$ Thornburgh that the bank adjustment to a new and Committee Chairman Sam would not be implicated. 
leaner Pentagon budget. Nunn. D-Ga. 
Thank You St. Jude for favors recieved

Class 
LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes every Sat. & Sun. continued from page 17 at 8:00 am Eastern Time. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment ant training 
TUTORS NEEDED TOWN AND COUNTRY programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call SkydiveCOMMUNITY CENTER NEIGHBORHOOD Hastings (616) 948-2665. 
STUDY PROGRAM. GRADE 1-6. 4:00-5:30 MON. AND WED. OR TUES. AND THURS , STARTING 
Baby Back Ribs 
C squared OCT 5, PROGRAM DIRECTOR (teacher) HappyBDayl Thanx for being my special bud! 

CONNIE EMMONS. 258-9973 OR 288-3366 -Edberg 
APPETIZER~ 
Sl\'ffT TREATS Try our Deep Fr.~d Alligator, 
"Known for 
C.. C...
the Best Food 

LIKE TO GOLF? Carrot Cake,
Calaman Rmgs l:ohill!'" 
Best of luck on the LSAT! !
Cocktail, r 

New York Cheesecake
in Town and 

HATE TO CARRY CLUBS?? 
andl.!ore!

Mozzarella Slicks & rJore! 
...enter the LYONS HALLAll Around" 
The Marlboro Man says "Don't get smoked!" 

GOLF CLASSIC! 
Drop your resume off at the Career Placement 

RESERVATIONS AND l'IAJOR CRt:DIT CARDS ACCEPTED 
Have a Lyonite carry your clubs as you tee off in Office TODAY! (a friendly reminder from the Leo hopes of the $100 grand prize!! Watch for sign-
Burnett Advertising Co.) r-------------------------_,~;u!!.ln~in the dining halls .... ""******"**•'*** 
" . .And while I agree to live life while you can, 
The Observer is looking for business and econom.ic students to vvrite a g!lest colull1n for the -Business Page. If interested contact Business  .,. MC)ncy B.& . ~::-,_.....-.~ ~ . StlZie Q. Happy~ ~/0~--F·.~~ , ... , , . A.r111iversity!·', ......·... -..," ,~' ... '' • AI ...• ,.,'•.-...I . '\ ' ... -... . ... frc)m yc)ttr -f ~ I I • •1: ... .... ... lc)Ving... ' .' .. •.,.,f . • rc)()n1ates  
Editor Pancho Lozano  

In all honest~' rd ratllcr eat harn."

at 239-7471 
Hair Designers 
Say you saw us in The Observer 
Haircuts $6.00

§ave 51SU 
with Student 1.0. 
277--0057

a "'ear-
Efficiencies now from just $255 1-Bedrooms now from just $270 2-Bedrooms now from just $330 
Just Minutes From Notre Dame! 
11 you're looking tor the ideal off-campus home stop by today and we11 show you beautiful, aHordable apartment living! 
We Deliver 

• 
Clubhouse & Pool 

• 
AV Conditioning 

• 
cable TV Available 

• 
Laundry Rooms 


Cou~tky tfQo/!.l~t

• 
Picnic Tables &Gr~ls 

• 
Gazebo & GIFTS. INC. BY DENNIS 

• 
Basketball & Volleyball Court 


8080S U.S. 31 SOUTH PH. 2Jg·281·3g37

+ 
24-Hour Emergency Maintenance SOUTH &END. INDIANA -4681 ..

+ 
Planned Activities Program 


.-rs.t 
-
272-1SS() 
-

rHlCKORU ~ DlLLAYE 
••.. •Conveniently loCated on Hickory Road, just north of Edison. 
291-3937 


Mon.-Fri. 9-7, Sat. 10-4 and Sun. 12-4 
2 Nice Bed N' Breakfast Rooms ­Close to Campus. Call 272-0128 
Hey man, cheer up_ Maybe you can retest the anatomy thing with a hot TA this weekend. 
HI MOM & DAD!!!! 
Hope you have a good weekend up here! Luv, Kim 
HI MOM & DAD!!!! Thanks for coming out-hope you have fun' Love, Colleen 
SHORT ON CASH ? Stop by MORRISSEY LOAN Mon.-Fri. : 11:30-12:30 1st Floor LaFortune O'Hara Lounge 
30 day loans up to $250 @ 1% interest 
Fay. 
Closets are for clothes: come out, come out, where-ever you are! 
DROP DEAD, NIFF! 
F =caliente' 

WE FOUND HER! 
JILL'S NOW AT 
"WE CARE HAIR". CALL HER FOR A CUT AT 271-7674. 
ARE YOU DRIVING TO OR THROUGH BUFFALO FOR OCT BREAK??? I NEED A RIDE HOME! CALL X1337. THANKS! 
Flowers! Flowers! Flowers! Parents coming in this weekend? Greet them with flowers! 
The most meanungful way to say, "I've missed you." ***Irish Gardens*** Open 12:30-5:30 today. In the basement of LaFortune. Balloons and cards. too. 
See our ad for more details. 

* * * ERIK GLOSTER * * * happy, HAPPY BIRTHDAY from Mom & Dad, Sean, Agnes. Brian. &Max. 
The Pillsbury Doughboy doesn't want to get flattened any more than you do! So get your resume into the Career Placement Office TODAY! (a public service announcement for all seniors, sponsored by the Leo Burnett Advertising Co.) 
Soph. German student will tutor handsome. gallant male German student in German or French <grin> You know who to call! 
MOLLY (Jane) CROSBY-Don't worry about our fish. just focus on Orgo and Tarzan. From your loving roommates! 
Ditka's Prediction: Irish.........69 Stanford ...... O 
Joe Riley of Dillon hall, 
The stud. Joe, we Walsh women are 
wild about you. Hope to see you at out and 
tailgating soon! 
love. 
the walsh babes. 
To the Rich-meister: I hope that we get butt-wasted this weeked, but if not. I'm sure that I'll fmd something else to do. 
Happy Birthday Peg Love, 1 North 
GOOD LUCK P.E. PYROS 
Tired of listening to Steve Miller and other such things? Tune into WSND's Nocturne program midnight to 2 a.m. Sunday through Friday nights. No classic Rock here. folks. 
---------------~ ---------~-­
.;:. 
t t ar;:':'Q 

page 10 The Observer Friday, October 2, 1992 
ELECTION '92 
Jf:':'S'-h 
Perot platform combines both liberal, conservative elements 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Ross Perot preaches a liberal social philosophy and a conservative economic agenda, favoring abortion rights, sex education, less spending and higher taxes. 
The Texas billionaire, who last spring offered himself as a "Mr. Fix-it" to repair a broken government, espouses a phi­losophy that combines strains of libertarianism and tight-fisted economic policies of orthodox Republicans. 
Perot favors abortion rights and would permit federal fund­ing for women who couldn't af­ford it. 
The Texas billionaire favors sex education for school stu­dents "so that they don't make mistakes that damage their life." Perot also doesn't object to distributing condoms to stu­dents to prevent the spread of AIDS. 
But he opposes prayer in schools in ke~ping with the Constitution's separation of church and state. 
"It seems clear that he cuts across the usual liberal-conser­vative spectrum because on a lot of social issues he is a liberal in a libertarian sense," says Benjamin Page, a Northwestern University political scientist. 
"At the same time, in terms of economic matters, he is very conservative in what I would call the old-fashioned Republi­can sense, not Reagan-Kemp supply side economics, but pay­ing attention to the deficits and actually balancing the budget," Page said. 
Perot, who announced he would re-enter the presidential race, has made balancing the federal budget and paying off the national debt a hallmark of his economic program. 
Perot says it was a mistake to drop out of the race because nehher Pre~dent Bush nor Bill Clinton has proposed ways to cut the national debt. 
While an active candidate, Perot outlined his ideas in speeches and interviews but didn't offer a specific prescrip­tion for balancing the budget 

Indiana Perot supporters are enthusiastic, but a bit unsure what they should do next 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Ross Perot's Indiana supporters cheered his plunge back into the presidential race Thursday, even if they didn't quite know what to do next. 
"That's a darn good ques­tion," said Perot volunteer Ted Martin. He and others in a core group of seven Perot organizers watched the Dallas busi­nessman's televised re-entry into the race and fielded dozens of calls from_ well-wishers and news media. 
"I feel fantastic -better by the minute," said volunteer Ernie Baker, also .at the north­side Indianapolis Perot head­quarters. "I knew he was going to run. I've never seen a better­engineered campaign in my 
Recent poll shows Perot at 7 percent 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Ross Perot began his late-starting presidential campaign Thurs­day as a decided underdog, with only 7 percent support in a poll that gave Bill Clinton a 17-point lead over President Bush. 
Clinton's 52 percent to 35 percent lead came in a national tracking poll that Cable News Network and USA Today began Monday, CNN reported. Gallup surveyed about 1,000 regis­tered voters by phone over three days. The margin of po­tential sampling error was 3 percentage points. 
Perot's 7 percent was his lowest showing in recent na­tional polls. CNN reported that 72 percent of their respondents said there was "no chance" they would vote for him. 
In contrast, just 32 percent said there was no chance they would vote for Clinton and 48 percent said there was no chance they would vote for Bush, CNN said. 
Perot had the highest unfa­vorable rating of the three presidential candidates, 66 percent, compared with Bush's 56 percent and Clinton's 38 percent, CNN said. 
The network said it planned daily reports of its tracking poll through the election. Since the sample from any one night would be too small to be reli­able, each day's results will be a fresh three-day average. 
Such polls can pick up sudden shifts of opinion faster than traditional polls, but experts caution that changes in the numbers due to sampling error and other polling effects can create an exaggerated sense of movement in the race. 
life." lost a hell of a lot." 
The Indiana group was Martin said the Perot move­preparing mailings and other ment proved itself at the tough­means to reach out to voters. est time possible -when Perot Baker said he thought Perot announced 11 weeks ago that could win, but that Thursday's he would not run. announcement was only the .. He has kept a hardcore start. movement alive because of its 
"We got a bunch of volunteers own volition," he said. "There's who have never been in just enough true sentiment at politics," he said. "We need a the grass roots of this nation. political organization." There was a tremendous effort 
carried on even when he 

The coordinator of Perot's backed away from the race." Indiana volunteer effort said Brian Vargas, a political the candidate's decision to drop science instructor and pollster out of the race in July was a at Indiana University-Purdue mistake, but not a decisive one. University at Indianapolis, ear­
"We didn't mess up and not lier said Perot would probably go to the polls," Wally Howard receive only 10 percent to 15 said. "The election's still in percent of the Indiana vote at front of us so we still haven't best. 
until after he had dropped out of presidential race on July 16. 
That bitter medicine, pre­scribed in a book that Perot published in August, includes higher income taxes for the wealthy, fewer tax breaks for home mortgages, higher Medi­care premiums and increases in federal excise taxes on gasoline and cigarettes. 
Last spring, the billionaire complained that wealthy people such as himself should be forced to pay higher taxes for Social Security benefits. In his manifesto entitled "United We Stand," Perot calls for taxing more of the benefits of retirees whose incomes exceed $25,000 for individuals or $32,000 for couples. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Great Tastes Begin Here... 

2041 Cassopolis Elkhart, IN 
262-1500 
121 S. Niles South Bend, IN 
234-9000 

120N.Main 'Doc.'.P""~~ Mishawaka. IN 

255-7737 
Reservations Appreciated 

Workaholics, night owls, tnsomntacs. 
Happy Welcome. Belated 21u Colleen r-----------------,(Butt-fungus Queen)! : $.99 Late Night Color Copies : Don )t be kissing any 1Bring this coupon into Kinko's and receive 99~ color 1 1copies between midnight and 6AM. One coupon per Itoilets tonight! I customer. Not valid with other offers. Good only at I I South Bend location through December 31,1992. I 1open 24 Hours kin•·o..fj 11271-0398 ft • 1LoPe, 118187 State Road 23 th I Between Ironwood & Edison ecopycenter Ijeuu_, Whiz, A~vs.ra, 1inti_, & Hanll ~-----------------~  
ATTENTION FUTURE HOLLYWOOD STARS: Sunbeam Productions needs EXTRAS for a film shooting in South Bend which takes place on the Notre Dame campus in the sixties. If interested, men should let your hair and sideburns grow NOW for a late 60's look. Stay tuned for more details.  

, 
page 11
Friday, October 2, 1992 The Observer 
,..~~~AliT

ELECTION '9 2 Jf:.>f-~ ~~ 
Quayle decides his public schooling Clinton says Bush isn't such a disadvantage after all 
defends dictators 
COLUMBUS, Ind. (AP) -crowd as he arrived to ad­Washington, D.C., and I'm 
Vice President Dan Quayle said Thursday he's proud to be the product of public schools and claimed "the media elite" -not he ­thinks that's a disadvantage. 
Quayle, who said a day earlier that attending public schools left him at ..a big disadvantage" in debating private school alumnus Al Gore, changed course. 
Speaking to a welcoming dress the national Farm Progress Show, Quayle said, "I grew up in a small town called Huntington. I went to public schools and I'm proud of it. I was raised with Midwestern values and that, my friends, is the real advantage in this campaign." 

A day earlier, he said of Gore: ..He went to the most expensive private schools in 
FLOWERS & MORE BY JACKIE 
674--9903 
Campus Delivery Available 
For Parents Weekend: One Dozen Carnations in a Box, $7.95 
Come see the Talented Otters ofSorin College at the 1 OSth Annual Sorin College Talent Show! 
Show starts tonight at 8:00pm on the front steps of Sorin Hall 
the product of the public schools. ~.. I'm at a big dis­advantage, but we'll do all right... 
But Thursday. he said, "The media elite will tell you Sen. Gore has a big advantage." 
Quayle attended public schools in Arizona and Huntington, Ind.• and then attended private DePauw University in Indiana. 
Give your heart an extra helping. 
Say no to high-fat foods. 

§•~}. American Heart Association 

..---­

<)Fr!CE 0~ 

MILWAUKEE (AP) -Demo­cratic presidential nominee Bill Clinton accused President Bush on Thursday of defending po­tentates and dictators instead of "the mainstream pro-democ­racy tradition of American for­eign policy." 
..No American foreign policy can succeed if it neglects our domestic needs, and no Ameri­can foreign policy can succeed if it slights our commitment to democracy," Clinton told a uni­versity-sponsored world affairs conference at the Pabst The­ater. 
"The President often takes a lot of credit for communism's downfall, but fails to recognize that the global democratic revo­lution actually gave freedom its birth," the Arkansas governor said. "He simply does not seem at home in the mainstream pro­democracy tradition of American foreign policy." 
Clinton said Bush seems to 
RECRE.\ rl<>~.\l ~PORTS 

ENTER NOW 
CAMPUS BADMINTON -MEN AND WOMEN UNDERGRADUATES .___ .-.,_;· _ GRADUATE STUDENTS FACULTYAND STAFF 
VOLLEYBALL IHMEN IHWOMEN 
CO-REC BASKETBALL 
ENTRIES BEGIN SEPT 28 
ENTRY DEADLINE -OCTOBER 7 

Special Offer for Students! •This Weekend Only!• Purchase Lou Holtz Autographed Copies of 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TODAY at a 20% discount 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TODAY, an exquisite, hardcover book, will be available to all Notre Dame students at the cost of $32 per copy (20o/o off the regular retail price of $40). This valuable keepsake will be available outside the Varsity Shop on the second ..floor concourse of the ACC. Hours are 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Friday and 9 a.m. to 12 noon on Saturday. Students must show a valid 10, and there is a limit of two copies per person. NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TODAY offers the most complete, behind ..the,scenes look at Fighting Irish football ever compiled. Coach Holtz gave seven of America's top photographers unrestricted access to the program during the past three seasons. They took more than 30,000 photos, the finest of which were carefully selected for this commemorative edition. The book also contains a foreword by Joe Montana. Thebook makes a great gift, and every loyal Irish fan should have one. Don't miss out on this special opportunity. 
---·-·--... ~-------···" .......... ~~-.. ... 
prefer ··a foreign policy that embraces stability at the ex­pense of freedom, a foreign pol­icy built more on personal rela­tionships with foreign leaders than on consideration of how those leaders acquired and maintain their power." 
''But in a world where free­dom, not tyranny, is on the march, the central calculus of pure power politics simply does not compute." 
Besides, he added, smiling, .. Individual leaders come and go, even in the United States, I hope." 
Clinton said he wasn't advo­cating "reckless crusades to force U.S. ideals on other peo­ple." 
"The real danger is that in a time of wrenching, sweeping change, under President Bush we will cling to tired, outdated notions that do not work and cannot inspire," he said. 
Campaigns battle over Bush tax ad 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­
dent Bush began airing an ad 
claiming Bill Clinton would be 
forced into a sharp middle­
class tax increase to keep his 
campaign promises that drew a 
roar of protest Thursday from 
the Democratic camp . 

The 30-second Republican 
tax ad began airing Wednesday 
night on network television. 
Clinton quickly called it 
"bogus." 

The Republican ad shows 
what Bush aides said were real 
taxpayers -a steamfitter, a 
scientist, two sales representa­
tives and a housing lender. It 
claims their taxes would go up 
by amounts ranging from 
$1,088 to $2,077 under Clin­
ton's economic plan. 

"You can't trust Clinton eco­
nomics," the ad says. "It's 
wrong for you. It's wrong for 
America." 

Clinton and his running mate, 
AI Gore, expressed outrage 
over what they called an 
inaccurate ad. 

"It is a disgrace to the Ameri­
can people that the President 
of the United States would 
make a claim that is so 
baseless and so without 
foundation," Clinton said, "so 
shameless in his attempts to 
get votes under false 
pretences." 

Gore called it "the most mis­
leading and deceptive national 
television advertising I have 
ever seen." 

Bush spokeswoman Alixe 
Glen shot back that the ads 
were "100 percent accurate 
and definitively document how 
Clinton's so-called economic 
plan is a bald-faced lie." 

The Bush campaign arranged 
for a senior Bush ad­
ministration official to brief re­
porters about the economic ar­
gument behind the ad. But the 
official refused to be quoted by 
name. 

Clinton has said he would in­
crease taxes only for the top 2 
percent of incomes, or those 
making over $200,000 a year. 
The Bush campaign, how­
ever, issued a statement noting 
Treasury figures showing tha.t 
the top 2 percent starts at 
$64,800 in taxable income. 

------__________________________,;.,_"""'-iii____........___ 
i 
H 
I 
j; 
l' 
" H 


Viewpoint 
page 12 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor.................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager., ............ Patrick Barth Photo Editor........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
Friday, October 2, 1992 

EDITORIAL 
Perot entering race to salvage broken ego 
After much fanfare, Ross Perot is back in the race for the White House. 
Once again, he is spouting criticism of the two major parties, the federal government and politics in general. And once again, his true self-serving motives for run­ning are clouded by altruisms and promises that he will adcfress the issues. 
When Perot withdrew from the race in July, he said he did not want to be a disruptive influence on the political process. But it appears that his exit and re-entry were, in fact, planned spectacles designed to gather steam for a faltermg cam{laign and avoid the party conventions. By re-entering JUSt 33 days before the election, Perot could make a strong, short drive for the White House. 
In fact, the independent candidate even spent millions of dollars after his withdrawal to maintam a political organization and ensure that his name was on the bal­lots in all 50 states. 
Perot's return appears to be motivated by ego. After the July announcement, much of the media and many of his own supporters labeled him a quitter. If he couldn't stick it out in the presidential campaign, the public asked, what would he do if he was elected? 
While Perot said he is re-entering the race at the re­quest of his volunteers, his true reason is transparent: he is running for the presidency to salvage a broken ego. 
13ut his flip-flop on whether to run signals indecisive­ness and his conspicuous jockeying damages his cred­ibility, leaving some voters suspicious. 
His personal motives are also illustrated in his choice for running mate: a choice few Americans are aware Perot has even made. In fact, retired Adm. James Stockdale has been virtually silent, leaving one to as­sume that Perot would rather run for the presidency alone and, if elected, run the country alone. 
Although Perot's announcement promises to shuffle a stagnant election picture, it appears that his decision wilf only increase the emphasis on character over is­sues. His re-entry does little more than to add one more character to the debate. 
All things considered, perhaps the alternative choice Ross Perot-a man seeking personal gain, a candidate spreading empty promises -is the biggest politician in the race. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Charge of 'stoogery' misses mark 
Dear Editor: 
Your recent editorial "SMC Art Controversy Smells of Stoogery" has missed the mark and unfortunately does not do justice to the actions or inten­tions of either the Saint Mary's community or the individuals involved. 
There were valid and differ­ing concerns expressed by var· ious constituencies of the Saint Mary's community regardingthe content and placement of Marcia Kaplan's sculptures on the grounds of the college. 
Initially, after one of the works was damaged, it was necessary that they be tern­

porarily removed while out­standing questions were re­solved. 
What followed the initial re­moval of these works was a very difficult period of re­assessment, sometimes made more complex by the enigmatic character of Kaplan's sculp­tures. 
Students were consulted, let­ters to the editor were written, a forum for discussion was 
held, the Faculty A-.sembly met to voice its opinion and a committee of the Faculty Assembly worked aggressively to seek a compromise. 
In all of this, and gratefully with the help of The Observer, our community sought to re­solve a very complex, moral, philosophical and socio-political issue. 
The outcome of this delibera­tion at Saint Mary's was not stoogery on anyone's part. In­stead, the Administration's de­cision to offer the option of re­displaying Marcia Kaplan's artworks reflect confidence in the character of our community and its ability to work through important contemporary issues in a reasoned manner. 
Douglas E. Tyler Chair of the Art Department 
Oct. 1, 1992 
Faulty logic, hypocrisy characterized letter 
Dear Editor: 
In response to Liam Ma­honey: we found your letter (Sept. 30) extremely thought provoking. Strained logic circles, hypocrisy and moral relativism are all part of your attack on Jon-Paul Hurt's letter concerning alcohol abuse. 
Our respect is dampened by your lack of respect for the moral views of others. 
We have several points we would like to make. First, is it true that by your standards one's right of expression does not include the right to make moral statements? You claim that he has no right to tell a person how to live his life. However, you yourself tell him not to make moralistic state­ments. 

Secondly, your logic is based solely on what you want. The needs of society are such that certain limitations must be placed on an individual's ac­tions. The ramifications of rea­soning is that anyone can do whatever they please. This is commonly known as anarchy. 
Lastly, you argue that if peo­ple desire to do something, and then do it, it is because they desire to do so. Obviously, Mr. Hurt desires to express his opinion on an issue that is important to him. 
Just because people hold dif­ferent belief systems than you, it does not mean that they have any less right to espouse them in a public forum. 
In doing so, they do not act wrongly. 
John Hinding Jonathan Lienhard Sorin Hall 
Sept. 30, 1992 

DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

8.[)., H0/41 I caw ya; TIO<-CAN7 £TlfX1< Sit?~ PtAY 
>a!~ K/<K¥(/N 8lV~­HIM Yt=Af?t3.' IT&6
I ,.,... 
I 
8AIJ8. 
\ 
I A//50 1.&7 23 
8A8CSOFF 
IA/rrH FR/t:Nllt-Y 
tJ./ARJI!N6S. 
tp-\ 
IAIHPT; YOU 
HAVe A CJUOTA'? 
\ 

'Character consists of what you do on the third 
and fourth tries.' 
James Michener 
Do something your cat can't, submit: 
QUOTES, P. 0. Box Q, ND. IN 46556 
'~ 
... .. 

Friday, October 2, 1992 
Viewpoint 

page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Andy the Mascot' still loves the Irish Guard 
Dear Editor q·27Sj'1My name j~-:f\ndy Mathews, f-ern Jn-f\~ ade qt Stm~r'­



ve?.. favor:Ite-thJt1gs ~t aD -I.Ma!"_C~:ing_ wrth the ltish Gua-r~_-d-an-d2-.P\ zzo at the-Hu-cfJtfi;­~:mcim=amtiliia told me -fbe~ Ir1 sh _G-r~Clr-d rY\dd e o GI~in\tsfci\~~bel"\ I get a:.-pu~-,_sh~~1jl'v\y mom ®d d~-~ _t~~1!f"--tJ they stifJ
kive lvle---F -rtt14-to"Q pat'
1 

~ l .. . -L -_~r' h-· ._ J M'1,
-C n rl S"> 0\Jf\ CJ-=-r lS ct f)Q 1f\e sistent ~reatment ~ffor~e~ the 

----·--.h-. -G d 
h+ to-" t e rot+(l rth
e f 'I ~-·· ······ --.-· -v \...A 
nad:lt_JQlmi=]ij~+ 5 Cdh­
~s so thd_t--!hey could mcH'ch witt\ rne Q8dj" with 




--· --sco 

Editor's note: Andy Mathews, age six, has been marching with the Irish Guard as a "mascot" since he was three years old, and has been distressed about the actions involving his "heroes. " He is a resident of Lake Bluff, Ill. 
Seniors should consider joining a Rap-Up group 

Dear Seniors: 
Are you looking for way to talk about life with people your own age over a home-cooked meal? 
Then think about a Senior Rap-Up Group. Seven times throughout the year, small groups of seniors will meet at the homes of faculty to mix good company, conversation and cooking. 
If this sounds interesting. 

beneficial, and fun, then please go to the Center For Social Concerns where you can get more information and sign up to participate. 
We're looking forward to our Rap-Up Groups and we hope you give it a try. 
Jennifer Swize Margaret Haugh Farley Hall Sept. 28, 1992 
Bush is hypocritical on abortion 
Dear Editor: 

The feeling around campus this election year, and for many Roman Catholics around the country, is that the November 3rd election will be decided on one issue: abortion. 
Abortion tends to be a reli­
gious issue. Religion tends to 
make us see things in black and 
white. 

When we read magazines and watch television, some of us automatically register George Bush as good because he is Pro-Life and Bill Clinton as bad since he is Pro-Choice. But seeing issues in black and white never leads us to the truth. 
First, one must consider the relationship between the Oval Office and the issue of abortion. Harry Blackmun, the justice 
who wrote the opmton 
instituting Roe v. Wade, was appointed by Dwight Eisenhower, a conservative Republican. 
Eisenhower did not put a liberal on the court intentionally-he just didn't know what he was getting, and in the end was enraged with his choice. 
That happened with the re­cent addition of Justice David 
H. Souter. He was supposed to be a sure-fire Pro-Lifer. Not so. He was one of the swing voters this summer who prevented the overturning of Roe. 
That Justice Thomas said he had "never read or discussed Roe" shows further that what you see is not always what you get. H sided with Justice Scalia in trying to overturn Roe outright. Contingencies like these are the reason that 12 years of Republican power and five (yes, five) Justice replacements later, Roe is still standing. 
People don't like to eliminate something that others take for granted. The President is basi­cally powerless on the abortion issue. 
Now consider the President himself. To say that George Bush is Pro-Life is preposter­ous. Do any of you who support Bush know that before he sided with the more Conservative Reagan in 1980, Bush had been a professed Pro-Choicer in Texas? 
When a reporter asked Bush in 1980 what his views were, Bush responded that "I'm whatever he is" (referring to Reagan). 
It appears that Mr. Bush will take whatever side gets him the most votes. Bush should look at those children already born who are impoverished or inflicted with disease. 
If Bush wants women to carry their babies to term, why doesn't he sign the family leave bill authorizing women to take time off for pregnancy? 
Vice-President Dan Quayle's statement that if his daughter became pregnant he "would support whatever decision she made" further testifies that the Republican ticket isn't as Pro­Life as it professes to be. 
For those of you who think it a "sin" to vote for Bill Clinton, how much worse is it to vote for the hypocritical George Bush? 
Brian Posnanski St. Edward's Hall Sept. 30, 1992 
Clinton 'rally' revealed intolerance 
o~:r;~~~:~r 

to The Observer (Sept. 24). Professor Stephen
Fallon responded to my com­mentary regarding the incon­
respecttve campatgn vtstts of Messrs. Bill Clinton (1992) and
Bush (1988) by the more left­
~:~~n~0 :::::,~:~~s of the Notre 
Professor Fallon contends that the "liberal" criticism sur­
rounding  Bush's  campaign  
speech  in  1988,  which  he  
characterized  as  an  

"unabashed rally" (as opposed to Clinton's euphemistically de­scribed "policy address"), fo­cused on the fact that ticket dis­tribution was handled in such a way to give the College Repub­licans an edge in securing a friendly crowd. 
I feel I must point out, as Professor Fallon somehow failed to mention it, that the Clinton campaign also acted in such a manner so as to secure a friendly audience at Stepan for their honorable candidate. 
By contacting campus Democrats and providing tick­ets to Center for Social Con­cerns partisans well in advance. Moreover, scores of campus Democrats were swept "under the rug" into Stepan's expanse by designating them to be "Clinton Volunteers," a clever euphemism indeed. 
The combined effect of these 
strategic actions ensured that 
Mr. Clinton could himself 
conduct an "unabashed rally," 
with a cheering section 
dwarfing that of Bush several 
years ago. 

Strangely, however, no criti­cism of this strategy was forth­coming from Notre Dame's honorable "left-wingers," noble souls widely noted for their aversion to any and all double standards. 
These modern "liberals" de­mand tolerance and unimpeded free expression for speakers of their own ilk, but they are conspicuously unwilling to extend this tolerance to people who do not share all of their views. 
Bush can come to campus and be greeted by venomous valedictorians, protestors, hecklers, and self-appointed critics who cry "Political Rallies are Undesirable fare for this campus!" Liberals lionize such individuals as rebels with a noble cause. 
Slick Willy Clinton rolls into town, and suddenly political rallies become acceptable fare. and the few Clinton opponents and "hecklers" amidst the Pro­Clinton multitude are branded by the liberals as "opponents of free speech." Such a double standard regarding free ex­pression runs counter to any sense of true, enlightened lib­eralism. 
The great political tolerance of the campus Clintonites was clearly demonstrated by the greatly under-publicized rough handling of Right-to-Lifers in the rear of the Stepan crowd. 
The actions of some Clinton volunteers against these indi­viduals met the legal standard of assault and battery. One unassuming man who was holding up a picture of the Blessed Virgin was accosted by Clinton volunteers, tolerantly ordering him to take such a villainous image down. 
One girl, carrying a small piece of paper with a Pro-Life message on it, was practically pulled over backwards by Clintonites who had climbed over other students in their valiant attempt to silence this fiendish anti-abortion foe. 
The chivalry, valor and dignity of these Clinton supporters make the knights of old Jook like pansies. (Even a knight wouldn't have the guts to attack an unarmed woman, much less one who defends the rights of unborn children.} Strangely, Professor Fallon failed to mention their noble deeds in his letter. 
....~ .. 
." ;~ 
: :.• ...t­



' 
i· ,) 
1. 
OCTOBER 2-4 
weekend calendar 
friday 
,., . MUSIC 

Blah Blah Blah, Club Shenanigans, 1 0 p.m. 
Starliters Blues Band, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 9:30p.m. 
Notre Dame Folk Choir, Holy Cross Brothers Center, 7p.m. 
EVENTS 
Pep Rally, JACC, 7 p.m. 

saturday 
MUSIC 

Glee Club concert, JACC, 10:30 a.m. Elwood Splinters Blues Band, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m. Starliters Blues Band, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 9:30p.m. 
EVENTS 

Notre Dame vs. Stanford, Notre Dame Stadium, 
12:35 p.m. Shenanigans concert, JACC, 11 a.m. 
suijday 
EVENTS 

Women's Soccer vs. Stanford, Alumni Field, 12:30 p.m. Men's Soccer vs. Dayton, Alumni Field, 3 p.m. 

FRIDAY 

High Heels, Snite Museum, 7:30 &9:45 p.m. Father of the Bride, Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST Sneakers, 7 & 9:40 p.m. Bob Roberts, 7:15 &9:20 p.m. Enchanted April, 7:40 & 9:45 p.m. Singles, 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. Husbands and Wives, 7:15 & 9:30 p.m. School Ties, 7:30 & 9:50p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST Mr. Saturday Night, 7:00 &9:30 p.m. Captain Ron, 7:45 &9:50 p.m. The Mighty Ducks, 7:30 &9:40 p.m. 
SATURDAY 

Hia.h Heels, Snite Museum, 7:30 & 9:45p.m.Falher of the Bride, Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST & WEST See Friday's schedule 
IUSB boasts intimate relations with community 
By MAURA HOGAN Accent Writer 
W 
hat do a Coca-Cola plant, a cheese factory, and a disreputable bar have in common? 
In the early 1900's, these buildings were unrelated spokes in South Bend's vital hub of industry and manufacturing. 
Today, they have been transformed into classrooms and administration buildings of "the university that educates Michiana," Indiana University at South Bend (IUSB). 
Established almost 70 years ago as an outpost campus of Indiana University at Bloomington, IUSB has been "growing like crazy," according to Ellen Mathia, Director of Public Communications. 
It has grown tremendously since 3 3 students received the first diplomas conferred at the South Bend campus in May, 1967. 
Since 1987, enrollment has increased from approximately 6,000 to almost 8,000 students. 
"Including part-time students in the count would increase the numbers. to..l2,0QP." npted Daniel 
Cohen, Chancellon of the Office of External Affairs. 
Unlike traditional universities such as Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, IUSB aims to serve what Mathia termed "the new majority" of students. 
"More and more students are coming from outside the traditional age group," said Mathia. "They have homes and families, and commute to school." 
lUSB draws students from seven Indiana counties and three Michigan counties. 
The University works diligently to dispel the image of the "town and gown" separation, that imaginary line which can exist between a uni­versity and the members of the surrounding community. 
"Our community is diffuse and extensive and there is no border," said Cohen. " You can draw a line around the property we own, but that line has little meaning beyond a legal one," he added. 
"We owe it to Michiana," urged Mathia, "to give back to the community. Our first goal is to educate and to create good citizens, and our second is to apply research locally." 
Students have researched such pertinent topics as the women's suffrage movement of Elkhart County, the water quality of St. Joseph County, and the culture of fanatic bingo players. 
IUS B shares many faculty members with Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Because ic cannot rely as heavily on endowments as private institutions such as ND and SMC, IUSB finds it must "be very efficient with our money, and make do with a fair number of adjunct faculty," said Cohen. 
350 of the 565 faculty members at IUSB are part-time, and many also 
• 

teach at ND or SMC. Mike Keen, formerly of the ND Center for Social Concerns (CSC). is a professor in IUSB's sociology department, and Pat Washington, a former SMC administrator, is now Director of the Masters in Social Work at IUSB. 
In a relatively small community such as Michiana, there are apt to be "collaborations between working areas," said Mathia. Within one family, it often occurs that one spouse teaches at IUSB and the other at NO or SMC. 
Case in point: Sam Shapiro, history professor at Notre Dame, is the husband of Gloria Coffman, Di­rector of Women's Studies at IUSB. 
''We owe it to Michiana to give back to the community. Our first goal is educate and tO·· create good citizens ~ . . " 
-EUen Mathia

·.. .. .. . 
·;;•~::·, .•:.:·•·l:~~·r-·=~:"t::·~•:······rr·,··:•··~·-:~:..·~~ii••a·•••~ 
In another husband-wife team; Harvey Bender teaches genetics at ND, while his wife Eileen serves as IUSB's Special Assistant to the Chancellor. 
ND/SMC and IUSB have also collaborated in social service organizations. Recently, IUSB Student Body President Sabine Schweitzer and NO's CAUSA president Mike Arsenault combined efforts to provide humanitarian relief to the hurricane victims in southern Florida. 
Calling the current program "a great success," Schweitzer is 
enthusiastic  about  further  
interaction between  the  two  
communities.  

Cohen had his own list of goals for IUSB's future. Labeling the current physical plant as "a hodgepodge of buildings," he described his dream to "now create a campus. " 
He is eager for IUSB to "outlive its ugly duckling myth" and to realize its potential role as "the most beautiful urban campus" in Indiana, as predicted by a disciple of Frank Uoyd Wright. 
The university is currently in the process of petitioning the state legislature for a new classroom building while it enjoys the recent construction of Northside West, which houses a six-floor library, the new bookstore, computer labs, and classroom space. 
Cohen also foresees increased numbers of programs in technology and the sciences, an area tradi­tionally dominated by Purdue within the state of Indiana. 
Their dreams are lofty, yet their visions are clear-headed. Clearly, lUSB is an institution of which Michiana may be proud. 
~I 

page 15 
Holy Cross maintains close ties to NO 
By JOHN COWAN Accent Writer 
A 
!though it's located just across the street from Notre Dame and adjacent to Saint Mary's, few know about the neighbors at Holy Cross College, nor the ties the institutions have with one another. 
The bond between Notre Dame and Holy Cross stretches back to when Father Sorin travelled from Ireland with six brothers, OVP,r 150 years ago. In fact, there is just one constitution which governs both Holy Cross and Notre Dame. In addition, one Superior General represents both institutions at the General Council in Rome. 
Brother James Bluma, Vice President of Student Affairs at Holy Cross, stresses that the· emphasis between the two in­stitutions is on "collaboration and cooperation." This manifests itself mainly in thf' sharing of personnel, faculty and student resources. 
II oly Cross faculty are invited to workshops and other academic activities and students and faculty are able to use library facilities, as well as the computer and media centers at Notre Dame, with their ID cards. 
Although Holy Cross does not have any intercollegiate athletics, its students are able to use both Rockne Memorial Gym­nasium and the JACC. Holy Cross also has intramural volleyball and basketball teams. 
Perhaps more important than the similarities between ND and Holy Cross, are the differences. "We are not NO," says Brother Bluma, "We are Holy Cross. And we are proud of that." 
The Brothers of the Congregation of the Holy Cross established Holy Cross in 1966 as a two-year college for brothers. Now a Catholic, two-year college, Holy Cross offers a liberal arts curriculum which parallels the freshman and sophomore course offerings at most senior colleges. Most students transfer to four-year colleges after one or two years at Holy Cross. 
About one-half of the Holy Cross students transfer into the IU system, but about 20 percent apply to Notre Dame, with more than 50 percent being accepted. 
Many Holy Cross students have parents who went to Notre Dame or are on the Notre Dame Staff. In the past, Skip Holtz, son of ND head football coach, Lou Holtz, and the nephew of Father Theodore Hesburgh, university president emeritus, have attended Holy Cross College. 
With a student enrollment of about 400, Holy Cross offers a smaller, more personal environment than larger schools. Class sizes are small and the faculty very accessible. "Holy Cross is easing me into a larger college environment," said Ryan Hamilton, a Holy Cross student,. 
"It's good because the classes are small. You have all the responsibilities of college study, with the big advantage of personal attention from the instructors," he said. 
The Holy Cross faculty is composed of brothers, priests, sisters, laymen and laywomen, offering years of experience and expertise. All faculty hold graduate degrees in their academic areas. 
The academic program offers courses in liberal arts (English, Spanish, French, chemistry, mathematics, physics, busi­ness, anthropology, sociology, geology, his­tory, art, religious studies, psychology, economics, government, music, philosophy, speech and biology). All courses are transferable, so students may pursue other fields of major upon transferring to a senior college. 
Holy Cross is a non-residential college. While some students are able to commute from home, many reside in two privately owned apartment complexes about a mile from campus. Other students choose to live in apartment complexes within the South Bend-Mishawaka area. 
The campus grounds cover about 140 acres, stretching from Angela Boulevard to Saint Mary's and from highway 31/33 to the St. Joseph river. The main college building contains both classrooms and library facilities, while the administrative offices are located in Andre Hall. There is also a small gymnasium. 
The Brothers of the Holy Cross have their provincial house on campus; Basil Hall serves as their residence hall. 
In addition, the campus contains St. Joseph's chapel, James Hall, which houses the Continuing Clergy for Ministry, the St. Joseph's community cemetary, the Dujarie House, the infirmary for Holy Cross and, finally, a maintenance shop. 
Although its campus and student body are much smaller than those at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, Holy Cross still upholds a grand reputation. 
"The importance of an institution's work does not depend on its size," said Notre Dame President, Father Malloy, at a ceremony this past weekend commemorating 150 years of education in the United States for the Holy Cross Brothers. 
Referring to the common mission of both schools, he added, "We're all in this together." 

Obsm·a graphic BRENDAN REGAN 

r 
page 16 Friday, October 2, 1992 

Marching to the beat of a different Buddha 
From the outside, the celestial 
That one bear the burden of the go through at the subway Smithsonian in the City of God other is the simple and clear entrance in order to sell the
Father Robert Griffin 
would look like the New York call that comes from all newspaper which the Worker Public Library, if its walls were suffering." (Dorothy Soelle) published as a free handout. 
Letters to a Lonely God
not made of alabaster, and if, in Christ came not to take away She'd pretend to grow faint, place of the lions at the main our suffering,but to fill us with and be on the point of falling entrance, there were not his presence, a great Christian down the subway stairs. As jewelled unicorns. We can tell that He's a loner Never again could he pray to a teacher has told us. But if He is soon as the commuters 
In this gallery of sacred by taking stock of ourselves as Protector-God. From then on, there for us, should we be there extended their hands to save antiquities, you can see loners, remembering that He God and Jesus were to him, for Him? her from an accident. she would naugahye reconstructions of created us in His own image. I powerless, suffering, limited. Isn't this the meaning of that stick "The Worker" in their Leviathan and Behemoth, the used to give light-hearted God was still the Father, but He reproach in Gethsemane, faces, and say: "Buy my blueprints followed at the explanations of the ways God was as powerles as Trocme the "Could ye not watch one hour paper?" parting of the Red Sea, and the could be lonely. father was. God could only join with me?" So much of the Darby's ploy was to wander foreskin of Moses, rumored to In my salad days as a smart­us in our grief, not save us from Holocaust literature seems to the campus in the hours after be the size of a grapefruit half, ass, I used to set traditionally it." say that the earmark of God's midnight, looking lost or to remind sight-seers that the Satholic nerve-ends on edge by It would not surprise me to chosen people is their abandoned. Good-hearted patriarch who met God face-to­suggesting that God created learn that Trocme put his finger willingness to suffer with Him. students, concerned for his face on Sinai was the last of the people because the Three on the scandal of the To speak, then, of the Lonely welfare, would find out where giants. Persons of the Trinity needed a Incarnation. Did God send His God is to give Him the street he lived, and bring him home 
In the archives next to the fourth for bridge; or because Son to live among us like a name which reminds us to like the Gospel lamb. arboretum where the Jesse they liked barber-shop soldier without weapons, or believe in Him even when He is The truth of the matter was Tree is kept watered, is a book harmony, and needed a tenor to even angels to protect Him, silent or in pain that he knew the layout of the with golden pages on which are form a quartet. because He chose to get by in Two weeks ago, I mentioned a campus like the back of his inscribed the Nine Thousand I wasn't trying to make His our world on love that is dog of mine who seemed to paw, and always found his way Names of God. tri-uneness sound like a stronger than death? serve as a gateway into God's home, when he was ready. He 
The fax which the Pope has of committee. Did it diminish Sunt lacrimae rerum et kingdom; but I didn't explain was bringing those students to this catalogue is three pages God's glory to conjecture that mentem mortalia tangunt. how. A book of my earliest see me, so I could help them, if longer than the Oxford English He brought man into existence "There are tears shed for things Observer pieces, which start in need be, as strays. Dictionary, since it contains His because He wanted to sing with even here and mortality touches 1970, contains a number of many job descriptions as well as him?Now that I'm older, I the heart." {Virgil) Can we articles about the original Through Darby, I had years of the salvation; histories that go suspect His divinity overlaps credit God with being Darby O'Gill, as well as pictures meeting mavericks who stayed with the Names He is known by our humanity in a more vulnerable? Jurgen Moltmann which show how good-looking to talk, and came back to pray. in other galaxies. poignant way. says a God who cannot suffer is he was. Sometimes, they would talk 
In our tradition, He's "I AM Andre Trocme was the poorer than any man. "One who The collection could almost be with him for quite a while, WHO AM," a.k.a. Yahweh-a pacifist Huguenot pastor of a cannot suffer cannot love, titled, "The Gospel According to before they were willing to grand old name, plain as any small Protestant town in France either, and so he's a loveless Darby," except that there is no bother to give me the time of name can be, though with that became famous for saving being." such gospel. Nor do I wish him day. propriety, society has dubbed thousands of Jews from the "Everyone who helps another to be called by borrowed titles; You .could, if you wanted, Him "our ground of being." All Nazis. In 1944, Trocme's 14-yea is Gethsemane," says the Charlie Brown's Snoopy has no demythologize the faith I have our understanding of Him old son committed suicide, and Russian liturgy. "Everyone who rivals as "the hound of heaven." in the Lonely God, since all mybegins with the name He used the heartbroken father never comforts another is the mouth Still, Darby all-unconsciously reflections on the mysteries when He struck up an got over that tragedy He of Christ." was a minister of God's grace. could be wishful thinking; but acquaintanceship with Moses. suddenly believed that human In other words, "Wherever Born as the runt of his litter, he the dog is no myth.
I mention this to reassure you life is thrown into a world people suffer, Christ stands with had a lame hind leg, which Darby III walks in his shadow 
-'\ that when I continue last week's dominated by absurd and them...as long as Christ lives could touch your heart, when as though he were acquaintedexplanation of Him as the chaotic accidents, instead of a and is remembered, his friends you saw him, as though you with his ghost as the elder Lonely God, I'm not using one of world providentially ordered by will be with those who suffer, were looking at Tiny Tim. statesman. When Darby II came 
the arcane stage names he is a loving God. Where no help is possible, he I used to know an old lady here to walk in his pawprints in 
credited with in the archives, or Trocme's biographer writes: appears not as the superior living at the Catholic Worker 1980, he reminded me of brash in any way marching to the beat "Never again would he believe helper but only as the one who House in Manhattan. She had a Kack Kennedy succeeding Ike in of a different Buddha. that God protects precious life. walks with those beyond help. song-and-dance routinue she'd the Oval Office. 

Emilio 
Estevez THE 
IPGI 
CAPTAIN RON
MIGHTY 
kurt russell 

martin short IPc: ll) PG 5:30, 7:30. 9:45 
DUCKS 
PG13 5:00,7:15, 9:30 

-liary ~·ran kiln, KCOI'-1''\1, LOS ,\:Ill a·:t.ES
PG5:15, 7:30,10:00 
DANIEL DAY-LEWIS 
THE LAST OF [!!] 
THE MOHICANS 
PG13 4:30, 7:00. 9:30 

R 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 
.-· 
.. 

t 
' 
'· 
' 
Serving 
ND/SMC 
Students for


GO IRISH! 27 years 
Beat Stanford! 
1r-----------------------,Colonial Pancake House 1 
I I 
: Apple Pancake :
October 
I I 
: SAVE $1.00 off :
Special: 
I I 
1 exp. 10/30/92 I
Fresh Squeezed L-----------------------~
r-----------------------,
1 Colonial Pancake House 1 
I I
Orange Juice 
: Any Omelette : 
I I
25¢ 
: SAVE $1.00 off : 
I I
all month I exp. 10/30/92 1 no coupon needed L-----------------------~ 
U.S. 31(Dixieway) North in Roseland (Across from Holiday Inn) 
272-7433

Open at 6:00 a.m. daily 
Just North of Campus 

--------~-----==-~--------------------------------------------------------------------~--------­
' .
.. 
Friday, October 2, 1992 The Observer page 1 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for ne)(t-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
'* .......................................,.. ••* * 
Have 2 BYU tix, need 2 BC tix. Will I STILL HAVE 2 STANFORD GA'S HELP!!! I am blind and need you I NEED A STANFORD TICKET, swap. Call (201) 487-9000. LOOKING TO TRADE FOR BYU OR
NOTICES I FOR SALE 
to restore my vision! I! student or GA. Please call Diane, PSU. CALL NOW! JOE X1760 LOST: One pair of tortoise shelled CHEAPI FBI/U.S SEIZED x4059. @@@@@@@@@@@@@@
ATIENTION: maroon glasses and case. Please 89 MERCEDES .......$200 I need 2 STANFORD GAs For more information and call Mick at X1856 or heal my 86 VW........................ $50 FOR SALE 2 Pitt GA's Best offer by If you can help, call Chris at X2033 I HAVE assistance regarding the affliction in 438 Stanford. 87 MERCEDES ......... $100 10/5 call Ted 513-492-5190. HAVE 
investigation of financ1ng, business 65 MUSTANG..... ....$50 I HAVE
••••••****....................********'*** 
. . . 

opportunities and work-at-home Choose from thousands starting i need 2 penn state GA's 
opportunities, THE OBSERVER LOST: LOST ON STEPHEN FIELDS $25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour call lisa X 4845 leave a message A L 0 T 
urges its readers to contact the AFTER FOOTBALL PRACTICE .. Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright NEED YOUR GAs Better Business Bureau of .SMALL CAMOFLAGE LEATHER #IN11KJC. Yo! I NeeD 10 PeNN St GAs Badly P I T T GAs P I T T GAs Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., WALLET WITH I.D., LICENSE, ECT. N E E D Y 0 U R G As Please CaLL: PAT x2071 Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637-PLEASE RETURN I! KATH ANNE Sweatshirts For Sale!!! Handmade Will sell CHEAP cause my 
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277-X4011 Christmas & Irish Sweatshirts and T­Sell me your GAs so that my family Selling student tickets & booklets. friends cannot go on the 9121 or 800-439-5313. shirts for sale. For more information can come to the games. I will I have BC GA's too. Luis 273-1528. BEST ROADTRIP EVER!!!! 
or to see samples call Kim 273-match all equitable prices to allow TYPING WANTED 2967. them to come see the Golden Stanford GAs For Sale Call me Philip 287-9118 287-4082 Dome. Thank You or Trade 289-3273 
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ 

SURVEY RESEARCH 1516 Oakhill Condo-2BRs, 2 Kyle 287-9118 •••• GRAPHIC LITERATURE TECHNICIANS Baths, 1170 sq. ft., fireplace, I NEED 2STAN & BC GA'S HELP! HELP! HELP! 
Entertainment for the 90'sl! I! Flexible schedules available for skylight, spiral sta~rcase to loft/den NEED YOUR GAs CALL CHRIS #3830 NEED 2-3 BC GA'S. Find out what you're missing at: "The best and the brightest ." Able 1 car garage. Walk to NO $77,500. MARY 284-5114 COLLECTOR'S DEN (Comics, Toys to work 4PM-10PM or 5:30PM-Coldwell Banker 277-8000. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR & Games) 4609 Grape Rd. 10:30PM during the week and Ruth Ann Smith 288-8875. STANFORD GA TIX. CALL JOE AT In need of two BC GAs. I have$$. JMS Plaza, Behind Hardee's EITHER 9AM-3PM or 3 30PM-I NEED TWO BYU GA'S FOR TWO @*& Please call me at x3891. M-F 11 to 7, Sat 10 to 6 9 30PM on Saturday OR 11 AM-SPM BICYCLE FOR SALE CHICAGO INNER-CITY YOUTH. 287-4561. 
or 5:30PM-9:30PM on Sunday to do Black Trek 800 18" JON 232-0550 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ survey research interviewing, Good Cond1tion-2 yrs. old. I NEED 4 STANFORD GAs or STUD. YOU HAVE WHAT coding and data entry in our $200. Call 232-2944 & ask for WANTED: 2 STAN. G.A.'s TIX. CALL MARY AT X3427. I WANT •.\ BECOME AN EXCHANGE growing South Bend Research Geoff. 277-2645 Brian STUDENT Operations Center. Excellent HELP HELP AND WILL PAY FOR IT compensation and working IBM COMPATIBLE SOFTWARE: I NEED STANFORD GAS HELP HELP AT&T Collegiate Investment conditions. PC experience desired. $2 EACH. JOHN 271-2909 Y E S, Y 0 U K N 0 W W H AT Challenge Typing required. Send resume or WANTED: COMPUTERS. Need two PENN STATE GAs I'M TALKING ABOUT letter of interest to: 108 N. Main, 1530 WESTERN AVE., SB. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ My sisters are coming out and I do Manage your own $500,000 Suite 311, South Bend, IN 46601 or 287-7550. I NEED 2 BC GA'S!!! not have tickets for them. NEED YOUR GAs portfolio and enjoy the excitement call 219-233-3453 for appointment. call Dena x2191 Please help them out. AND YOU NEED of real Wall Street action. ALSO HIRING WEEKENDS ONLY BIKE for $20 THANK YOU MY MONEY 
call 273-1932 I need Stanford GA's Kyle 234-9433 ENTER NOW' ENTER NOWI ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT­call Kathleen 4092 CALL ME ANYTIME!!!! Availability is limited, so hurry. fisheries. Earn $5000+/month. Free The Ultimate Tailgating & Off­HELP HELP Steven 287-9118 
CALL 1-800-545-1975 ext. 12 transportation' Room & Board' Campus vehicle. '76 Cadillac &*(%$#@ )-HELP HELP $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Over 8000 openings. No Fleetwood Brougham, dark blue, $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ experience necessary Male or great stereo. runs & looks good! BYU STU Will trade one student ticket to BYU, WANTED 3 GA's ND VS BYU 
Female. For employment program See it before every home game in BC, and Penn St. plus cash for 2 10/24 CALl. COLLECT 215-355­The Pillsbury Doughboy doesn't call Student Employment Services Red West. $2,195. FOR SALE BYU GAs. Call Pat at 271-2360. 7131 RON want to get flattened any more than at 1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584. Leave message at 299-1522. you dol So get your resume into the BYU STU NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S­PITI TICKETS!!! Career placement Office TODAY! (a Earn Free Spring Break Trips & TV FOR SALE 19 IN COLOR 50$ KEVIN 271-8641 public service announcement for all $2500 Selling Spring Break call Mike@ 283-1161 FOR SALE seniors, sponsored by the Leo Packages To Bahamas, Mexico, CALL 2723491 Need 6 tickets for Stanford game Burnett Advertising Co ) Jama1ca. Florida! Best Trips & FREE LANCE WRITER NEEDS &*(%$#@!)-255-9648 CALL D. J. or scon@ 1246 
Prices' 1-800-678-6386. WORK I'LL WRITE A STORY ON Dead Quote of the Week YOU FOR YOUR HOMETOWN IN DIRE NEED OF 2 GA'S FOR WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR NEED 4 BC GA's Looking for a top fraternity, sorority, PAPER. 2723491 BYU... GOOD PENN ST GA"s 2773097 Joe #1112 
.. 
Grateful Dead The motif of a cycle or student organization that would CALL KPO AT x1943 of folk tales which begin with the like to earn $500-$1500 for a one For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call Will pay top dollar for 2 or 3 football · 4 SALE 4 U ...STUDENT hero coming upon a group of week on-campus marketing project. Rita Delivery on Campus IN DIRE NEED OF 2 GA'S FOR tickets for any of the following home STANFORD TIX ... X1448 people ill-treating or refusal to bury Must be organized and hard 234-6524 BYU... games. Oct 24, Nov. 7, Nov. 14. the corpse of a man who had died working. Call (800)592-2121 CALL KPO AT x1943 Call collect -ask for Joe Murphy. 8 w1thout paying h1s debts. He g1ves x308. • 4 Stanford student tix 4 sale. A.M. to 4:30P.M. 614-382-1104, PARENT'S NEED STANFORD 272­his last penny either to pay the Sorta cheap, but negotiable. IN DIRE NEED OF 2 GA'S FOR 7:30 P.M. to 11 PM 3229 man's debt or give him a decent $$$$ FREE TRAVEL AND RESUME X4012 * BYU ... 614-389-4303 weekdays. burial. Within a few hours he meets EXPERIENCE!! CALL KPO AT x1943 Weekends 9 A.M. to 9P.M. 614-389­with a travelling companion who Individuals and Student Old Gibson Les Paul Custom 4303. PERSONAL a1ds h1m in some 1mpossible task, Organizations wanted to promote electric guitar, 1969, black, $1000. Do you need BYU, BC or PSU gets him a fortune, SPRING BREAK, call the nation's 277-9882 Student tix? Call Kerry x3619 $ $ $ $ $ Hey Niff or saves his life. The story ends leader. Inter-Campus Programs NEED 1 STANFORD GA with the companion disclosing 1-800-327-6013. BUY BYUs X2319 ND Parents Need 2 Stanford G.A. Call Kim x 1511 AMANDA KAY himself as the man whose corpse Will Pay$$$ Call Meg @ x2985. $ $ $ $ $ have a wonderful day the hero befriended. Childcare and light housekeeping 
needed in our Granger home 12-16 2 RT TIX SB -WASH DC FOR *Football Tix 4 Sale@ 277-9074 • NEED TICKETS FOR STANFORD OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES Typing 237-1949 hours per week (on Tuesday and OCT BREAK $150@ PLEASE HELP, CALL 1573 Spee-Dee Wordprocessing Thursday afternoons) for toddler CALL 273-2752 2 Stan GA X3436 MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR and mfant. Experience preferred, Need 4 PITI tix!!! FREE HAIRCUTS. CALL COSIMO'S $$$$$$$$$$$ references essential, top hourly Need Stanford tix Call Pete ( 1-800-322-0228) 277-1875 wage. Contact Karen at 271-9322. TICKETS Todd x2292 COMPETE HELP! I need 2 Stanford GA's for ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. WITH THE BEST EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX my Dad's boss! Name your price­family can provide financial circulars!. ..Begin NOW!...FREE CALL JOE OR JAY X1760 I NEED 1 STANFORD TICKET Call Kirsten at 271-0933 security, excellent education and 5TH ANNUAL packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box wonderful future for your baby. AT&T INVESTMENT 4000, Cordova. TN 38018-4000. I NEED NO FOOTBALL PLEASE CALL MARY X285 7. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Please let us help you in this CHALLENGE TICKETS.272-6306 I NEED 2 PENN STATE GA's ! ! difficult time. Confidential and legal. WANTED: Child care worker for Betsy 273-1792 (leave message) Medical expenses paid. Collect TAKE YOUR FICTIONAL $500,000 in-home care of 2 five year-olds, NEED TICKETS FOR ALL HOME $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ anytime. (818) 246-1763 BROKERAGE ACCOUNT AND Fridays, 9AM-2. 287-5117. GAMES!CALL BRIAN 800-443-Rosemary needs Stanford GAs!!! MAKE MILLIONS= 6701 x5281 or 312-248-3425 x4071 NEED 2 STANFORD TICKETS EVERY FRIDAY IS RESUME DAY I AM A 21 YR. OLD COLLEGE call Aaron at 273-0663 at The Copy Shop in LaFortune JUST LIKE WALL STREET STUDENT EMPLOYED BY HAVE 2 STANFORD GA'S. WANT SAVE 20% off copies STUDENT PAINTERS. I'VE BEEN STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE TO TRADE FOR 2 GA'S FOR TRADE: 2 STAN GAs for 2 BC GAs on our resume paper REGISTRATION DEADLINE: PROMOTED TO EXEC. POSITION OTHER HOME GAMES. CALL 284-call 277-8732 after 8 OCTOBER 30, 1992 AND NEED MANAGERS FOR CALL 283-1747 5052 HURRY! DON'T DELAY SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. 2 STANFORD GA'S Attractive and physically well­ELKHART, MICH. CITY, LAPORTE, Have 2 Stanford GA's, will trade for TO BEST OFFER BY endowed Notre Dame student with 1-800-545-1975 EXT. 12 NILES, THREE I NEED 3 PENN ST GA'S 2 Penn State GA's. Call Don at 271-FRL STACY@ 2854 good personality needs a date for RIVERS/SCHOOLCRAFT. SALES WILL PAY, MIKE x2209 4060 or 256-1776 LEAVE MESSAGE Oct. 10 SYR. $$$$$$$$$$$ EXP. PREFERRED, BUT NOT NESS. 
MUST HAVE GREAT ADD AND Have BC Stud. Tix Two Stanford GA's. call 233-6581 Will trade 2 Stanford GA's for 2 I will provide transportation, Reserved parking available for all WORK HARD. AVG. EARNINGS Will sell or trade for Penn St. & Penn State GA's-Call Doug @ beverages. and hours of fun rema1n1ng home games. Short walk 8.000. CALL 1-800-543-3793 ASK Stanford Tix plus $ I NEED 1 Stanford ticket x1148 whoever answers this ad. to stadium. Call LOGAN (219)289-FOR TOM SMITH. Eric x1200 Student or GA 271-8139 4831. HAVE 2 STAN. GA'S. This is not a jOke. I really need a 
RIDE WANTED ************************ ***** ••••••••• ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY WILL TRADE FOR 2 BC OR PSU. date. The Marlboro man says "Don't get 10/9-10/11 Please help!!! I'm in DESPERATE HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT CALL RYAN x 1007 smoked!" Drop your resume off at to U-Mich need of Penn State GA's ..... 618-439-3338. You can call me AI.. the Career Placement Office $$$ for driver Call Ann 284-5241 need 3 G.As and 1 student ticket at 283-2703 TODAY! (a friendly reminder from #2331 Wanted: Stanford vs Notre Dame for the Stanford game. If you can the Leo Burnett Advertising Co.) 1-415-991-3416 call collect help, please call Suzy at x3722. 
Need 4 GA's for Penn State. Call $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 5 VERY LARGE MEN will hurt me if I 283-2972 between 8-10pm. PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston College TRADE: 2 BYU GA'S FOR 2 BC don't have GAs for them when they 
GAs or student tix. Call Jill@ x4758 GA'S (715-359-0222) SEVERAL STUD. BOOKLETS 4 come for the BC game. Please 
Need ride to S. Jersey/Phila. area or x4721. SALE. 2711627. help. Jenn x4059. Please return for Oct. break. Will pay$$! Call $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ the grey Maureen @ 2862 Need 2 Penn State GA's SEVERAL STUD. BOOKLETS + PAWN BUY SELL TRADE TC TENNIS Need GA tix for BYU will buy or Please Call Lisa at 289-3790 STANFORD TICKETS 4 SALE. OZARK TRADING POST sweatshirt you trade for my GA PENN ST tix Butch 2711627 1530 WESTERN AVE. found by the Stepan FOR RENT (209) 449-1800/439-6170. Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call · 287-7550 
volleyball courts 1-800-922-BEAR. **FOR SALE: 2 STANFORD GA's last Thurs (9/24) BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY I have 2 BYU GA's!!! PETE x1567 SENIORS DON'T MISS OUT!! Erin #2331 219-291-7153 I am looking to trade these for $NEED 2 STANFORD$ Today is the last day to sign up for 
2 Stan. GA's or 2 Penn St. GA's $GAs x3593$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Senior Rap-Up groups. Stop by the Found Dorm Room KEY on soccer 2 room efficiency , utilities paid Joe x1395 Need 1-4 GAs for Stanford esctoday to sign up. ball key chain call 3312 claim. $7 a day. 288-0955 call x4782 
Need Penn St. Tix $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED A RIDE??? 
2 BR house, basement, garage, Tony x 1786 We're leaving 10/15 for Central DID YOU LOSE YOUR GLASSES? stove, refrigerator. @ 1115 Vassar, I NEED 1 BC GA. Need 2 Stan GAs Mass. (Worcester area) and we're pair of brown wire-rimmed glasses NW near campus. $300/mo + I have a Stanford GA and need .a DAVE, x4506 x1212 going through Albany TIM x1045 found Wed. night in front of the Utilities. Yr lease & deposit. Grad Penn State GA-want to trade? Call Snite. Call Jim at x3411 to claim students (20K) preferred. 272-1265 Jahnelle at 283-2998 NEED STANFORD & PENN ST 
TIXS.272-6306 

ILOST &FOUNDI 
........ ..._.. ___ .......-.. see CLASS/page 9 
~ 
.. :~" .•.•. • • ....•.,a.,.a.••.•.•.. ~ .....•.••••e•-..•·••~•~ ...,I",,.,,.J',.I .... .J ..• ..·.•·•••• 
-

... --. .-r-------···· ..•... ··•*-.. .... ;L .. ___ ,..... ___ ------·-----------·------------..... -· -·-----·---~ 

page 18 The Observer Friday, October 2, 1992 
MLB STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS INTERHALL SCORES 
All Times EDT HOCKEY

AMERICAN LEAGUE BASEBALL National Hockey League Results for the week of Sept. 27-Oct. 2
East Division American League NHL-Named Gil Stein president. 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away BOSTON RE 0 SOX-Named Charles CALGARY FLAMES-Assigned Trevor INTERHALL BASEBALLToronto 93 66 .585 z-6-4 lost 1 50-28 43-38 "Buzzy" Bowers full-time scout. 
Kidd and Andrei Trefilov, goaltenders, and Sunday's gamesMilwaukee 90 68 .570 2112 z-8-2 Lost 1 53-28 37-40 CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Agreed to extend Paul Kruse, left wing, to Salt Lake of the Alumni 9, Sorin 1Baltimore 87 72 .547 6 5-5 Won 1 43-38 44-34 their affiliation with Palm Springs of the International Hockey League. Dillon 2, Grace 0 Cleveland 75 84 .472 18 z-5-5 lost 2 40-38 35-46 California League for two years, through the HARTFORD WHALERS-Traded Kay OC 4, Stanford 3 Detroit 75 84 .472 18 z-5-5 Won 1 38-42 37-42 1996 season . 
Whitmore, goaltender, to the Vancouver Monday's gamesNew York 75 84 .472 18 z-5-5 Won 1 41-40 34-44 SEATILE MARINERS-Signed Ron Canucks for Corrie D'Aiessio, goaltender, St. Ed's 5, Cavanaugh 1Boston 71 88 .447 22 4-6 Won 1 42-36 29-52 Villone, pitcher, and assigned him to the and a conditional 1993 draft pick. Fisher 5, Alumni 0 West Division Arizona Instructional League. 
MINNESOTA NORTH STARS-Namedw L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away TEXAS RANGERS-Named Tim Murphy Bob Goldsworthy scout. INTERHALL FOOTBALL-MEN'Sx-Oakland 94 64 .595 Z-4-6 Lost 1 49-28 45-36 general manager of Port Charlotte in the NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Agreed to terms Sunday's gamesMinnesota 88 71 .553 6112 Z-6-4 Wont 1 48-33 40-38 Florida State League. 
Wtth Darius Kasparaitis, defenseman. Sorin 7, Carroll 0 Chicago 86 73 .541 8112 Z-6-4 Lost 1 50-32 36-41 National League Zahm 17, Fisher 7 Texas 75 83 .475 19 4-6 Won 1 36-45 39-38 PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Announced NEW YORK RANGERS-Assigned Ric Cavanaugh 10, St. Ed's 3 
Kansas City 71 88 .447 23112 z-5-5 Lost 1 43-35 28-53 they will not exercise its 1993 option on the Bennett, left wing; Mike Stevens, center; and California 70 89 .440 24 1/2 3-7 Won 1 39-39 31-50 contract of Ken Howell, pitcher. Steven King, right wing, to Binghamton of OC 6, Morrissey 3 Seattle 61 97 .386 33 4-6 Won 1 35-42 26-55 SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Acquired Rob the American Hockey League. Keenan 3, Dillon 0 
Katzaroff, outfielder, from the New York PHILADELPHIA FL YEAS-Acquired Brent Stanford 8, Grace 3 NATIONAL LEAGUE Mets to complete an earlier trade involving Fedyk, left wing, from the Detroit Red Wings East Division Kevin Bass. outfielder. Assigned Katzaroff to lor a 1993 fourth-round draft pick. INTERHALL FOOTBALL-WOMEN'S Sunday's games
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Phoenix of the Pacific Coast League. WASHINGTON CAPii.•&."Cs-Traded John PW 6, Farley 0
X-Pittsburgh 95 64 .597 z-7-3 Lost 1 53-28 42-36 BASKETBALL Druce, right wing, and a conditional 1993 Montreal 86 73 .541 9 4-6 Lost 3 43-38 43-35 National Basketball Association draft pick to the Winnipeg Jets for Pat Siegfried 19, PE 13 St. Louis 81 78 .509 14 z-6-4 Won3 43-35 38-43 DENVER NUGGETS-Waived Ken 
Knott 12, Lewis 0

Elynuik, right wing. Chicago 76 83 .478 19 z-2-8 Won 1 41-37 35-46 Johnson, forward. Signed Gary Plummer, BP 12, Walsh 0 New York 70 89 .440 25 z-3-7 Won 1 39-39 31-50 forward. 
OC 12, Howard 0 Philadelphia 69 90 .434 26 z-8-2 Lost 1 41-40 28-50 HOUSTON ROCKETS-Signed David Badin 12, Pangborn 7 
West Division Wednesday's games
Wesley, guard. Wednesday's Games 
W L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Lyons 13, Howard 6 
LOS ANGELES LAKE AS-Extended the Hartford 4, Ottawa 3, OT x-Atlanta 95 63 .601 z-6-4 Won 1 48-29 47-34 contract of Magic Johnson, guard, through Rangers 4, Islanders 1 Walsh 12, Badin 6 Cincinnati 89 70 .560 6 112 z-7-3 Lost 1 52-26 37-44 BP14,0C8
the 1994-95 season. Boston 6, Philadelphia 5 San Diego 80 77 .510 14 1/2 3-7 Lost 4 45-36 35-41 PHILADELPHIA 76ERS-Signed Greg Toronto 3, Buffalo 2 Houston 78 80 .494 17 6-4 WenS 44-33 34-47 Grant, guard, to a one-year contract. Winnipeg 5, Edmonton 4 INTERHALL SOCCER San Francisco 70 89 .440 251/2 Z-4-6 Lost 1 42-39 28-50 Continental Basketball Association vancouver 6, Los Angeles 2 Sunday's games Los Angeles 63 96 .396 32 1/2 3-7 Won 1 37-44 26-52 ALBANY PATROONS-Signed Joey Thursday's Games Carroll 3, Grace B 1 
x-ctinched division title. Zahm B 5, Stanford B 2 
Wright, guard. Late Game Not Included Dillon 2, Sorin 0z-denotes first game was a win. LA CROSSE CATBIRDS-Signed Jaren Hartford 4, Ottawa 3 Cavanaugh 1, Morrissey 0 Jackson, guard, and Reggie Tinch, forward. Boston 5, Philadelphia 3 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Keenan 3, St. Ed's 1
AMERICAN LEAGUE OMAHA RACERS-Traded Ronnie St. Louis 4, Detroit 3 
Thursday's Games Alumni 3, OC II 0
Thursday's Games Grandison, forward, to the Rochester Minnesota 5, Chicago 2 
Late Games Not lnduded OC I, Flying Buttresses OF
Late Game Not lnduded Renegade for Skeeter Henry, forward. Winnipeg at vancouver, (n)Minnesota 9, Chicago 6 Los Angeles 4, Cincinnati 2 QUAD CITY THUNDER-Traded A.J. Friday's Games Zahm A 2, Grace A 0 
Tuesday's games

California 5, Kansas City 2 Atlanta 6, San Francisco 5, 1 0 innings Wynder, guard, and a 1993 fourth-round Boston at Tampa Bay Baltimore 3, Cleveland 2, 10 innings San Diego at Houston (n) draft pick to the Tri-City Chinook for Roy Edmonton at Calgary Flanner B 5, Stanford B 2 Texas at Oakland (n) Only games scheduled Marble, forward, and a 1993 first-round pick. Hartford vs. New York Islanders at Miami Zahm A 3, Fisher 1 
Wednesday's games

Milwaukee at Seattle (n) Friday's Games ROCKFORD LIGHTNING-Signed Richard Buffalo vs. Toronto at Hamilton 
Cavanaugh 2, Stanford A 0 Only games scheduled Montreal (Nabholz 11-11) at Chicago Morgan, guard. Montreal at Quebec OC II 0, Flanner A 0 Friday's Games 

(Morgan 15-8), 3:20p.m. FIELD HOCKEY New York Rangers at New Jersey 
Thursday's gamesNew York (Wickman 5-1) at Boston San Diego (Benes 13-13 and Deshaies 4-6) UNITED STATES FIELD HOCKEY Saturday's Games Carroll 3, Zahm B 0 (Dopson 7-10), 7:35p.m. at Atlanta (P.Smith 6-0 ad Smoltz 15-12), 2, ASSOCIATION-Announced the resignation Tampa Bay vs. Boston, at Atlanta Grace A 6, OC I 2

Baltimore (Lefferts 1-2) at Cleveland 5:40p.m. of Carolyn Moody, executive director. Calgary at Edmonton (Mesa 7-12), 7:35p.m. San Francisco (Rogers 0-2) at Cincinnati Named Carrie Haag short-term executive Detroit at St. Louis Detroit (Gullickson 14-12) at Toronto (Rijo 15-9), 7:35 p.m. director, effective Oct. 5. washington at Philadelphia Please support.(Morris 20-6), 7:35p.m. Pittsburgh (Drabek 15-10) at New York FOOTBALL Winnipeg at Minnesota Minnesota (Smiley 15-9) at Kansas City (Schourek 5-8), 7:40 p.m. National Football League Toronto at Pittsburgh (Haney 2-2), 8:35p.m. Philadelphia (Schilling 14-1 0) at St. Louis GREEN BAY PACKERS-Signed Keith Quebec at Montreal Texas (Chiamparino 0-3) at California (Osborne 10-9), 8:05p.m. Millard, defensive tackle. Waived Esera San Jose at Los Angeles (Langston 12-14), 10:35 p.m. Los Angeles (Hershiser 1 0-14) at Houston Tuaolo, nose tackle. Sunday's Games 
+

Milwaukee (Navarro 17-11) at Oakland (Kile 4-10)~ 8:~5 p.m. LOS ANGELES R~IDE~S-Piaced Sam Detroit at Chicago American(Darling 15-10), 10:35 p.m. Graddy, Wide rece1~r-k1ck r_eturner, on , Toronto at New York Rangers RedC1'088 Chicago (Hough 7-11) at Seattle (Fleming injured reserve. Re-stgned Vmce Evans, ~ .,f 1 End Preseason 16-10), 10:35 p.m. quarterback. ' -~.~ 

GET THE SHIRT BEFORE JUDGEMENT DAY! 

Multi-colored design on Hanes white or ash T-shirt Available at select area distributors: Bleachers, Coaches, Hall of Fan1e Sportswear (downtown), Britton's Card Shop (located next to Trf;lcks), or call287-6730 or 1-800-338-5231 With this ad get 10% off 
----------------------------~---~------------·-... ---------~--------------~ 
Friday, October 2, 1992 The Observer page 19 
With 3000 hits, Brett now ponders future 
longer he'll play. 
"I don't know," Brett, 39, said after he got four hits in his first four at-bats against the California Angels on Wednesday night to become the 18th major leaguer to reach the 3,000-hit 
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) -Ge­orge Brett almost called it quits more than 100 hits shy of the milestone. 
Now that the Kansas City Roy­als' star has his 3,000 hits, the big question is how much 

TliE POI~Tr: 

AT SAINT JOSEPH 
~or (jratfuate Students and~acu{ty 
We afso fiave furnislied e~ecutive suites 
Office 9lours: Monday-~riday 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Saturcfay 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 
307 LaSa[{e 5?lvenue, Soutft 1Jenc£ Indiana 46617 (219) 287-2684 

plateau. "I want to enjoy this for a while and go back to Kansas City." 
Discouraged earlier this sea­son when he was hitting .150 and the Royals lost 16 of their first 17 games, Brett considered retiring right then and there. But Kansas City manager Hal McRae, among others, talked him out of it. 
Two considerations will figure heavily in his decision for next year and beyond: whether he believes he can still play at a high level, and whether he be­lieves he will still enjoy the game. 
"I know I'm not the player I was five years ago or 10 years ago. But I still think I can help this team win some ballgames, and I still think I can play better than most players. 
"But at the same time, I don't want to out there and embar­rass myself. And once I feel that I':o-t embarrassing myself, then it's time to quit." 
Winfield could be the next one to plateau 
{AP)-With another injury-free season, Dave Winfield of the Toronto Blue Jays will likely be­come the 19th player to reach 3,000 hits. 
Winfield, who turns 41 on Saturday, is 136 hits short of 
the mark that was reached this season by Milwaukee's Robin Yount and Kansas City's George Brett. Winfield is batting .290 with 167 hits, 26 homers and 106 RBis this season. 
Eddie Murray of the New York 
Our roses are ret£ Our irises are 6{ut. (jrut your parents witli. jfmuers to tli.anK_tli.em for a[[ tli.ey tlo! 

o/isit Irisli (jardens tTotfay! 
~­
... 

Open 12:30-5:30 (doseaSaturday arnlSurulay} 
• rose.s, irises, tlaisies, snaptfragons, afstromeria, fark§pur, mums anti 
mere! ~y matfe 6ou.quets availa6Ce or cfwose your own assortment. In tli£ 6asement of£a![ortune 
Mets and Andre Dawson of the Chicago Cubs could reach the mark in 1995 or 1996. Murray, 36, has 2,644 hits and Dawson, 38, has 2,502. 
Oakland's Rickey Henderson, the Cubs' Ryne Sandberg and Baltimore's Cal Ripken would need to play for the rest of the decade to reach the milestone. Henderson, 33, needs 1,001; Sandberg, 33, needs 1,065, and Ripken, 32, needs 1,084. 
Kirby Puckett has averaged over 200 hits in his first nine seasons with Minnesota and could reach the mark in 1998 by maintaining his current pace. The 31-year-old has 1,804 hits. 


The Royals have a $2.5 million option on Brett's contract for next season, with $1 million buyout, but they haven't indi­cated their plans. 
"I've always said I'm not going to play the game of baseball for money," Brett said. ''I've always said I'm not going to play the game of baseball if I don't have fun. 
"Sometimes, I just feel like I'm overmatched against some pitchers, and I never felt that way before. It's not a good feeling." 
A good feeling would be a first­ba11ot election to the Hall of Fame, a prospect greatly en­hanced by reaching the 3,000­mark. But a Cooperstown in­...­duction is not Brett's present concern, although he's happy to be in that position. 
"I haven't thought about it," he said. "Hopefully, with the 3,000 hits now, I've put another candle on the cake. 

0MPUS MINISTRY  The University of Notre Dame Folk Choir @ presents a concert of Sacred Folk Music to benefit The Holy Family Catholie Worker House of South Bend FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2,1992 7:00PM Holy Cross Brothers' Center (across from WNDU-TV) The Uni\•ersily of Notre Dame Folk Choir is a unique ensemble of singers and instrument.llists. Their arrangements of sacred music include four-part choral harmony, flute and strings, guitar, Irish harp, organ, and bodhran (Irish drum). The Folk Choir has toured Ireland in 1988, "90 and "92. Their recordings include Mass on the Fa~st of Saint Patrick, a collection of ancient and contemporary Irish sacred music; A Coml'arzio11 to l'rayer. recorded with the monks of Gethscmani Abbey in Trappist, Kentucky; and CommonScmg, a collection of instrumen­tal sacred folk music. Free will offering.  ASK -'SOUT C U A 809 E. Jefterwn Boua.v.td p 0. Boll70 MISI'le-ka. IN o4e!><5 JEFF CELIE """"• (219) 259-1981 New and Used Cars & Trucks El<Mt1-'-c.! (219) 674-9928 Tol F'"(800) 8:17-1981Extension 632 Buy at $100 overGo Irish! dealer invoice!  
IRISH EXPRESS Your Football Weekend Outlet Dooley Room • LaFortune Student Center • 239-8128 Hours: Friday 12-9 p.m. Saturday 8 a.m.-9 p.m. Sunday 9 a.m.-5 p.m. VISA • MASTERCARD • DISCOVER ACCEPTED!  

page 20 The Observer Friday, October 2, 1992 
NCAA slaps Syracuse with two-year probation 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. (AP) -The long-awaited NCAA sanctions against the Syracuse basketball program came down Thursday, lighter than expected because of the school's cooperation in the investigation. 
The Orangemen are banned from 1992-93 postseason play and the school's entire athletic program was placed on two years' probation as violations were also found in the women's basketball, football, lacrosse and wrestling programs. 
The NCAA said the penalties were less than the minimum for major violations because of Syracuse's cooperation in its 
Women 
continued from page 28 
The Badger's size is what most concerns Notre Dame's third­year coach. A physical game does not favor the Irish, who rely on speed to breakdown opposing defenses. Notre Dame forwards Rosella Guerrero and Michelle McCarthy, along with midfielder Regan Coyne, will be looked upon to dissect Wisconsin's defense, but their size may be a factor. None of the trio boasts the size to physically battle the Badger defensive line. "We need to keep the ball on the ground and use our speed," said Petrucelli. "I'm hoping that the size difference will work to our advantage." Strategically Petrucelli will do more than hope against the 1991 NCAA runner-up. For­ward Allison Lester will be moved back to her normal posi­tion in the frontline. Lester spent the last two games sup­porting the Irish defense, but Petrucelli feels the need to in­crease his offense pressure. "We were able to score some goals when Allison was up front," commented Petrucelli. "That's an area where we have 
been  lacking  the  last  few  
games."  
Awaiting  Notre  Dame  on  

Sunday will be the undefeated Cardinal, sporting an explosive offensive front and one of the nation finest goalkeepers. Junior Sarah Rafanelli returns this season after leading Stanford with 16 goals and eight assists last season. She will be joined by senior Julie Foudy (15 goals, seven assists in 1991). In the net for the Cardinal is Leslie Garrard, who carries a .34 goals against av­erage, allowing only six goals in Stanford's first six games. "Stanford is probably the best 

probe. The NCAA Committee on Infractions stopped short of banning Syracuse from live television appearances, but did assess scholarship and recruit­ing penalties. 
"But for their cooperation, their penalty would have been much greater," said David Swank, dean of University of Oklahoma Law School and chairman of the committee. 
Syracuse chancellor Kenneth 
A. Shaw said the university would accept the penalties. 
Basketball coach Jim Boeheim said his players were disap­pointed when told of the penal­ties Thursday morning. 

Jim Boeheim 
"But this class (of seniors) has been to the last three tourna­ments and they're going to have to accept it. There are a lot of kids, a majority of kids, who go to college and don't get to go to 
team we will face this season," added Petrucelli. "They have world class players in the front, midfield, and on defense." Notre Dame took a day off after last Sunday's 2-1 loss to Portland, deciding to put in an extra day preparing for the Classic. "We've worked hard this week, and they may be a little tired right now," said Petrucelli before Thursday's practice. "I feel they will be rested by Fri­day's game." Worrying Petrucelli more than opposing defenses or his squads stamina is team moral. Three straight losses have put a damper on the high expecta­tions Notre Dame had a week ago, when they boasted a 4-1-1 record and a school high #16 ranking. The fragile mental state of his youthful team prompted the Irish coach to meet with his team to boost their confidence. 
NoTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS 


Jefferson  


Main & Jefferson Hours Mon-Th 11 a.m.-11 p.m. Fri-Sat 11a.m.-11 p.m. 
h. AF edB. Sun4p.m.-9p.m
NotaFranc 1se• am1.1y Own usmess 
257 --1100 "This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" Authentic New York Pizza 
Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs Dine In • Carry Out $2.00 off any pizza with Student ID 

NOTRE DAME: A SENSE OF PLACE 
The most dramatic visual celebration of Notre Dame ever produced is now available in a palferhack edition published by the University of Notre Dame Press. Its more than 100 four­color, full-page photographs by Willtam Strode capturing the essence and spirit of Notre Dame make this the perfect keepsake of a special place. 
$21.9') paper• II" x 9""•106 color phorographs 
Available at 

Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
• The Second Floor • 
three NCAA tournaments," he said. 
No penalties were assessed against football and women's basketball because of the lim­ited nature of the infractions by those programs. 
The wrestling and lacrosse programs each face a reduction in the number of scholarships awarded by the school because both programs exceeded their financial aid limits for several years. 
Regarding the basketball pro­gram, the Infractions Commit­tee determined "there were repeated and conscious efforts by representatives of the uni-
Death is fore\ler. 
Heart disease doesn't have to be. 
DIRECTED BY MARK PILKINTON 
Wednesday, October 7, 8:10pm Thursday, October 8, 8:10pm Friday, October 9, 8: I 0 pm Saturday, October I0, 8: I 0 pm Sunday, October II, 3: I 0 pm 
Washington Hall Reserved Seats • $7 
Student and Senior Citizen discounts are available Wed., Thurs. and Sun. performances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. Master Card and VISA orders: 239-8128 
For Mature Audiences 

ANDREW DICE CLAY 
IN CONCERT FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6th 8:00P.M. MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
Tickets available at the Morris Civic Auditorium, Tracks Records, Orbit Records, and World Records CHARGE BY PHONE 235-9190 
Produced By Sunshine Promotions and Contemporary Presentations 

versity's athletic interests to gain recruiting and competitive advantages for the men's bas­ketball program." 
As a result, Syracuse loses a scholarship in 1993-94 and 1994-95. 
In addition, the NCAA banned the men's basketball coaches from off-campus recruiting from Jan.1-June 30,1993. For the rest of the year, only one coach at a time will be allowed to recruit ofT campus. 
Shaw took exception to the committee's finding. "This is not a maverick ath­letic program," he said. 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASSCI"IATION MEMORIAL PRCERAM® 
~~ 


-~----.. 
'
--~--------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------~-------------­
Friday, October 2, 1992 
The Observer page 21 

lf!IILM!I!.-.--r·~~?-It~s a,,b[~d'!~isio"r;:..,S~~~~J~ng_ u:h~re to ~eg~·n yJur career. There are many reasons to join Deloitte & Touche­our "!!fents, our dedication to quality, our professional development opportunities, our people. People who enjoy what they do. Our mission is simple: to consistently exceed the expectations o/our clients and our people. 
With 16,500 people in more than 100 offices in the United States, and through our global organization, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu International, we o/ler c/;ents worldwide an outstanding and diverse portfo/;o o/ services. For you, this means unlimited opportunities to grow, professionally and personally. So why not join a f,·rm that w;/1 exceed your expectations? 
Congratulations to the following graduates /rom the Class of '92 who have recently joined Deloitte & Touche: 
Nancy Arena Stacey Durante Tim Gray Terrance O'Connell Jennifer Shimp Barbara Bryn fohn Evans III Nancy Kesmodel Jim Panacek Peter S/amkowski -4. Noemi Bueser Gary Faucher Mark May Greg Ritacco Michael Smit/1 
Greg Cooper Scott Frigon Todd Miller 
In addition, Adrienne Speyer and Kimberlee Steel are j,·rst /rom the Class o/ '93 to accept an o/ler o/employment a/ter graduation. Welcome Adrienne and Kim! 
The above professionals are joining our offices in Chicago, Cincinnati, Indianapolis, Kansas City, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, New York, Parsippany, Pittsburgh, Seattle, and Was/1ington, D. C. 
Deloitte& 


Touche 
Accounting, Tax, and Consulting Services 
• 
1 •

We L 1 s t e n • We D e 1 v e r • 
Deloitte Touche T ohmatsu International 
Deloittc &Touche is an equal opportunity firm_ We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote 
witbout re~tard to race, creed, color, national origin, a~tc, sex, veteran status, or irrelevant handicaps. 
.. 
page 22 The Observer Friday, October 2, 1992 
-........ 
Yugoslavia banned from 1994 World Cup 
ZURICH, Switzerland (AP) ­World soccer's governing body FIFA banned Yugoslavia today from the 1994 World Cup com­petition. 
A FIFA statement said it made the decision in view of continu­ing United Nations sanctions on Yugoslavia, now consisting of Serbia and Montenegro. 
The announcement dashed hopes of the soccer crazed na­tion that an exception would be made to allow its team to com­pete in the competition which climaxes in 1994 in the United States. 
Following the imposition of 
U.N. sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro in May, the Yugoslav team was banned from taking part in June's Eu­ropean Championship finals in Sweden. 
In June, FIFA said it would have to expel the team from the World Cup championships if the 
U.N. hadn't lifted sanctions by the end of August. 
However, Yugoslavia's Prime Minister Milan Panic last month 
Men 

1 
l 
continued from page 28 
tournament, and the inside 

track to the automatic NCAAi tournament bid that goes to the tournament champion. 
I 
-....._ But that is still a month away and Xavier is Notre Dame's only concern tonight. Doug 
Tegge, the nation's fifth leading scorer, leads the Musketeers' 
... 
I 
,, attack and he will be the focal ·~ point of the Irish defense ' tonight. "Tegge is an outstanding
~~ player," Berticelli said. "We 
~J have to be aware of their 
' 
' 
strengths up front and find a way to deal with them." 
Notre Dame dealt with De­Paul's strengths on Tuesday in a 3-0 win that saw two Irish players continue to move up the career charts. 
Senior Kevin Pendergast scored the 28th goal of his ca­reer to move into a tie for ninth-place on Notre Dame's career goal-scoring chart, while sophomore goalkeeper Bert Bader notched his 14th shutout, just eight short of the record. 
Pendergast's goal was his fourth of the season, tying him with junior Mike Palmer for the team lead. 
They will be expected to con­tinue their leadership Sunday afternoon when the Irish return to the field against Dayton. But

j the Flyers are secondary in the 
} minds of the Irish as they prepare for tonight's game against the Musketeers. 
"We're just taking it one game at a time," Berticelli explained. "We won't be caught looking past Xavier." 

J 
,-=-....... 
J 
i j 
:.v 
! 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
~ 
l 
pleaded for extra time while he took the case to the U.N. that sports and culture should not be included in th~ boycott. 
FIFA agreed to delay its deci­sion until Sept. 30. 
The decision means that there are now only five teams left in European Group 5. Yugoslavia was a favorite in the group to a dvance to the finals. 
FIFA said it could not replace Yugoslavia in the group be­cause European qualifying play has already begun. Other teams in the playoff are Hungary. Greece, Luxembourg. Russia and Iceland. 
Two matches against Iceland and Russia scheduled for September had been suspended pending FIFA's final decision. 
Yugoslavia was traditionally among Europe's top soccer na­tions and qualified for three of the five last World Cup final rounds. But the team has been hurt by the defection of talent from the four other former Yu­goslav republics. 
SMC soccer faces St. Thomas 
Belles look to maintain perfect record tomorrow 
By MAGGIE HELLRUNG Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's has something to get excited about on Saturday, and it has nothing to do with lawn sculptures. 
The Saint Mary's soccer team has had a lot to brag about lately. 
So far, the Belles have cruised through their season undefeated, with seven victories under their belt. 
"The team has really pulled together," said coach Tom Van Meter. Last Sunday, the Belles had a surprising win over Division II Saint Joseph's col­lege, 2-0. 
"The team really surprised me," said coach Tom Van Meter, "We've never beaten St. Joe's. I was very pleased with the girl's performances." 
The Belles continued their winning streak by crushing Aquinas College on Tuesday by a 
landslide score of 12-0. The Belles will battle it out on 

INTRODUCTORY OFFER 
EUROTAN BEDS NORMALLY 10 VISITS FOR $4500 SPECIAL INTRO. OFFER FOR STUDENTS 10 VISITS FOR $3500 
OFFER EXPIRES OcTOBER 25 
DoN'T FORGET...WE HAVE $800 HAIRCUTS AND PERMS STARTING AT $1922 WITH FREE HAIRCUT WITH STUDENT 1.0. 

1811 SOUTH BEND AV£.•271--7674 


Here's your chance to get a portable picture for the ages. Show up at the LaFortune Lobby on Saturday of Parent's Weekend between 8 a.m. and Noon and for only $2, you can get a photo button ofyo.u and your parents. It's fun, fast, and cheap! How many other things can you say about that here at Notre Dame? 
(Sponsored by Student Activities) 
home turf against the University "This will be a tough game," of Saint Thomas this Saturday said VanMeter, "Our goal at 10 a.m. keeping is going to be the key to 
According to VanMeter, the winning." Belles will look to junior forward Megan Delsaso and Because Saint Thomas is a senior forward Stacey Winget to nationally ranked Division III provide the offense, and will be team, a victory for the Belles on counting on a strong defense to Saturday wiU put them one step hold back Saint Thomas. closer to a post-season bid. 
THE THOMAS J. WHITE CENTER ON LAW AND GOVERNMENT PRESENTS 
PROFESSOR MICHAEL J. PERRY HOWARD J. TRIENENS CHAIR IN LAW NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW 
ON 

'"DOES RELIGIOUS MORALITY PLAY AN ESSENTIAL ROLE IN THE ARGUMENT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS?" 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5 
12:00 NOON 
ROOM 220 -LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 

5 ~9\!PIO!J{.S 'Ba[foons, Cards, 
(jifts anaYlntiques 
(jreat Sr-IU':Forma[ (jifts 
:J-{ours: {219) 271-2001 Mon-Sat 10-9 Sunday 10-6 
1627 'Edison ~ad • Soutfi 'Bend, If}{ 46637 .9Lcross tlie street from Linebac~r­adjacent to Jamison Inn 

•$5.00 coupon· witli $15.00 minimum purcfia.se • 
fJJritton 'l(now{es-Owner 

'Ike Country Jfarvester introduces ... 
I9(ISJi o/ILLYl{j'E 'Begin your campus co[{ection now witfi wood rep ficas off}{ptre 1Jame 's Jldministration 13uifding and SacredJ{eart 13asi{ica. 
A~ 
';d8Le' 
; ~ ,_.. T 


MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Gary Gaetti is gone. Jack Morris is a name from the past. But the 
· idea of Kirby Puckett following in their free-agent footsteps makes the Minnesota Twins and their fans shudder. 
Parents name their babies after him. 
At the Democratic National Convention, Minnesota dele­. gates listed him as one of the 
state's main attractions. 
The Twins general manager ­the man who is trying to convince Puckett not to ask for the Metrodome in his next contract -has said he'd have to leave town if he lets Puckett get away. 
"I think Kirby's value to the team transcends what happens between the white lines," Min­nesota general manager Andy MacPhail said. "What he means 
., 
·_;:;. 
~\ 
' . ­Friday, October 2, 1992 The Observer page 23 
Puckett to declare free-agency, but not set on leaving 
to the organization. What he means to the community. What he means' to the league. We would have an easier time replacing the 100 runs, the 100 RBis, the 19 homers and 200 hits than the individual that Kirby is." 
Puckett has said he will file for free agency at the end of the season, meaning Thursday's game may have been his last at home with the Twins. He is ex­pected to command a five-year contract at least as large as Cal Ripken Jr.'s $32.5 million deal with Baltimore -more than the Twins say they can afford. 
"You look at the potential costs. You operate under some real-life restraints," MacPhail said. "If Kirby's price gets so high that it means we can't field a respectable team, that we can't sign 24 other players to 
Blow, 

Kevin, 
Blow! 

Happy 21sr, Doc~ Boy! 

• 
...., . 
..... 


Available on Campus for $12.00 at: 
LaFortune Student Center (Irish Express) JACC Varsity Shop 
Alumni Association Office and Hospitality Center Student Concession Stands Friday Night Pep Rally 
To order using Visa or MasterCard call: 
(219) 239-6316 
keep us competitive, that's not going to help us." 
Minnesota had a $27.6 million payroll on opening day and fig­ures to stay at about the same level next year. If Puckett gets $6 million of it, that doesn't squeezes the amont left for the rest of the roster. 
"There are people who say that if Kirby Puckett isn't signed, then the Twins will lose more money," said Puckett's agent, Ron Shapiro, who also represents Ripken. "What's the heart worth to a body? Kirby Puckett is the Twins' heart. And if you say you need a new heart, and you can't afford one, then you die." 
Puckett had agreed to a five­year, $27.5 million contract with Minnesota before Twins owner Carl Pohlad reportedly nixed it. News of the breakdown 
in negotiations awoke Twins fans to the possibility that Puckett may not be around much longer. 
Rallies were held, petitions were signed, T-shirts were printed begging the Twins to pay him. When Pohlad was in­troduced in a post-game cere­mony last week, he was greeted with boos and chants of "Kir­bee! Kir-bee!" 
Pohlad sought shelter next to Puckett, who told him, "Don't drag me down with you." 
Puckett received standing ovations before each at-bat in Thursday's game against the White Sox, as he has for most of the past month. For his last time up, the crowd stood through the entire at-bat. 
He struck out looking. "The fans probably think this is it," Puckett said after the 
Pohlad incident. "They don't know, man, they're just like me. They don't know what's going to happen, I don't know what's going to happen." 
Talking to Puckett about his future is an exercise in futility. The closest he's come to a good­bye is: "Some of us might not be around next season. You know the way baseball is." 
'Tm still holding the cards in my hand. There's no dealing," he said. "I hope that I'm here, but that's not up to me. All I can do is just go out and play, man, do my job. and it's up to somebody else to do their job. If it were up to me, I'd be signed now." 
Puckett is arguably the most popular player in Twins history, and with a .321 lifetime average and 142 homers he's popular among his teammates as well. 

LeBlanc readies for another year in minors 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Gone is the International Hockey the jubilation of Olympic suc­League with the Indianapolis cess for goalie Ray LeBlanc. Ice. 
A series of rejections and dis­After a brilliant performance appointments has him back in with the U.S. team in the Winter 
1 Hour Film Processing Across from University Park Mall 

~~~~ t~~~~~ Special Student Offer 
(?\\~ j .\S wtth Student I. D. \S\1\I\l _/ 0$1.00 off 12 exp. roll 
.......__.,~ 0$2.00 off 24 exp. roll 0$3.00 off 36 exp. roll 02nd set of prints free 
Hours: Mon..Sat 9 .. 9 Sun 12 .. 5 272--6710 
Olympics, LeBlanc was ignored by the Tampa Bay Lightning and Ottawa Senators in the Natioonal Hockey League expansion draft. 
Then he anticipated playing in Europe this season, but that fell through in July. 
He said one week before he was supposed to sign with a German team club officials found a loophole in contracts of former Communist players and acquired another goalie from Germany. 
"It was just one of those summers," said LeBlanc, 27. 



''The Shirt '92 ,, 
The Official Football Shirt of the Notre Dame Student Body Sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Association 
• 
Worn by over 95% of the student body at the September 12th Notre Dame vs. Michigan game. 

• 
Front features a silk -screened image of the Golden Dome emblazoned with "Notre Dame Football." 

• 
Full screened, six color back features a tribute to coaching legends Rockne, Leahy, Parseghian, Devine, and Holtz. 

• 
100% pre-shrunk cotton, Hanes forest green T-shirt . All sizes extra large (XL). 

• 
All proceeds benefit student organizations. 



~ ~ HFC ~cl~Ch~k~~~yili~fu~14.50~~hm(i~ud~S&H)oc;~ 


your Visa or MasterCard. I 
[ ] Visa [ ] MasterCard [ ] Check or Money Order: 
I

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• J 
Or send Check or Money Order for $14.50 (includes S&H) along with Acct # Exp. Signature I 
your name and address to: 
The Shirt '92 P.O. Box 608 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(Please allow 4-6 weeks for delivery.) 
.............................................................................................................................. I  
Name (Print)  1  
•  ······························································································································ Address  I  
~  ···:·························································································································· I  

~acy s~ ~ 1 
L--------------------------~ 
... ---­
.. 
... 

\ 
~ 
!\I 
...... 
,..i 
:t 
\i 
;~ ·~ ·~ '~ 
pl 
Itt i 
' 
.........._,
I l,l 
l 1 ~ 
'1-. 
ht 
k 
:I·
1 
(· 
l)
; 

The Observer Friday, October 2, 1992 
page 24 

SMC volleyball earns third straight 
#24 Mississippi St.· romps 
By EILEEN MCGUIRE tonight while Anne played an second game, but they kept 
Sports Writer all around good game espe­their heads, got more cially hitting against good comfortable and stuck it out the 
over #13 Florida, 30-6 
STARKVILLE. Miss. {AP) -and backup quarterback Greg Division I Chicago State Uni­blocks," commended senior co­whole way." 
Frankie Luster's goal line Plump. pressed into service 
captain Karen Lorton who The Belles have qualified for
versity was no match for the
interception stopped a soring when Sleepy Robinson went 
Saint Mary's volleyball team contributed nine kills of her Division III NCAA recognition in threat and Kevin Henry set up down with a suspected season­
(11-6) as the Belles defeated own. attack percentage, digs per 
a touchdown with another of ending left knee injury, scored 
the Cougars 15-1, 15-11, 15-4 In the second game, Panowicz game and blocks per game. Mississippi State's five thefts as on the next play for a 20-6 lead 
for their third straight win. stepped in as setter for the first Also, Karen Lorton has the 24th-ranked Bulldogs with 13 112 minutes to play. 
Although Chicago State sports time in a game situation. qualified in attack percentage buried No. 13 Florida, 30-6. 
three women above 6'0", Saint ''I'm very proud of Laura," and kills per game while Mary Mary's was able to place the praised Schroeder-Biek. "There Wheeler has joined her in
Mississippi State (3-1 overall, Luster's big play occurred when 1-1 Southeastern Conference) Florida was threatening to ball in the correct positions as was some confusion in the qualifying in attack percentage. well as utilize its entire bench. 
intercepted five passes off regain the momentum after Florida quarterback Shane State's game-opening scoring 
"We came ofT two great wins riiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiJ
and therefore were mentally •
Matthews and also recovered drive. The Gators drove to the two fumbles while holding the Mississippi State 2 before an il­
and physically prepared," ex-
A S G f 
plained senior co-captain Laura upport fOup 0 f
Gators (1 ..2 overall and SEC) legal procedure penalty backed Panowicz.
without a touchdown for the them to the 7. On third down, first time in 21 games. Luster stepped in front of a 
Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek 
RAPE SURVJVQ·RS
agreed, saying, "This was a 
screen pass at the 10 and re­
really good team game. I'm re­
The Bulldogs blew the game turned it to the Florida 49. 
ally pleased with the bench." 
•Open to all· St. Mary's & Notre Dame
open early in the fourth period 

Freshman Stacy Amos con­when Matthews, under heavy Robinson ran for 34 yards and 
Undergraduate and Graduate \Vomen
tributed six kills while fresh­
pressure, threw a pass into passed for 39 on State's open­
man Anne Lawrence chipped in 
•Completely Confidential & Free of Charge
two kills and two blocks. 
Henry's arms at the Florida 17. ing drive, which ate up the first 
•Held on campus
"Stacy's hitting was great
Henry returned to ball to the 1 7 minutes, 15 seconds. 
Football 
Continued from pg. 28 7 Tennessee (4-0) at LSU (1-3), No. 8 Penn State (4-0) at. Rutgers (3-1), South Carolina (0-4) at No. 9 Alabama (4-0), No. 11 UCLA (3-0) at Arizona (1-2-1), No. 12 Ohio State (3-0) at Wisconsin (2-1). No. 14 Virginia (4-0) at Wake Forest (1-2), No. 16 Georgia (3-1) at Arkansas (1-3). No. 17 Syracuse (2-1) at Louisville (1­3). Iowa State (2-2) at No. 19 Oklahoma (2-1), No. 21 North Carolina State (4-1) at No. 23 Georgia Tech (2-1). No. 22 Boston College (4-0) at West Virginia (3-0-1), and Ten­nessee-Chattan"wga (2-1) at No. 25 Clemson (1-2). · In the only other game involv­ing the ranked, No. 13 Florida (1-1) visited No. 24 Mississippi State (2-1) on Thursday night. Larry Smith, whose Trojans (1-0-1) last beat Washington in 1989 and hold a 39-22-3 edge in the series, would like to see the Huskies (3-0) affected by the top ranking and their 17­game winning streak. · "It gives Washington some­thing else to think about," he said. "I don't think anyone wants to be No. 1 now. "The biggest thing is, how is your team going to react? "Some guys can handle it, some guys can't." Among those who apparently can is Torretta, who cast aside the pressure a year ago against Florida State to silence a legion of detractors, among them Florida State fans derisively chanting "Gi-no, Gi-no." "It felt real good just because everybody was doubting me the whole season -until that game," Torretta said. "I don't 
think you can have  a better  
feeling."  
Torretta, hoping  to  lead  

Miami to its 17th straight victory and extend its unbeaten streak at the Orange Bowl. 
WAVEY­1LovE You VERY MucH AND I AM So SORRY. 
ALWAYS, 
MISSEROO 

For more information, 
call Sex Offense Services at 234-0061,
If there's a pain in vour chest. be a pain 
ext. 1308

*:."":~:":..":.. 1•~-1
c'iH:ase. The soort:t ~cu set . _
in lhe neck. 

your doc1or. lhe better your chances lor lile
Complain to a doctor. 
SupportMadison Center's programs for the homeless.... 
Your purchase of a Lou Holtz mask and a raffle ticket will benefit the programs Madison Center provides for the homeless. Madison Center is a not-for-profit organization that is supported by contributions from people like you. 
Mask and Raffle Ticket: $3.00 
Available at Society Bank, Martin's Super Markets, Gloria Jean's, Burger King, Belmont Beverages and other locations throughout St. Joe County. 
Grand Prize 
A $500 shopping spree courtesy of Martin's Super Markets. 
m~rfin'r 

Second Prize 


A weekend for two at the Drake Hotel in Chicago plus two tickets to the January 2, 1993 Bulls-Pacers game, courtesy of the Dr~ke Hotel and Resource Planning Group, Inc. 
Drawing will be held October 31 at 11:30 p.m. 

MADISON CENTER 5~~,~~·M .S'~!~t,y WSllT®TV~~ 
..-.. 
BURClR

Special thanks to: ~~-) KING 
Printing donated by.Kinko's The Copy Center
-..-.: 

Available on campus at Anthony Travel/LaFortune Center, Senior Bar, Dorm Concessions or the Alumni Office. 
... 
Friday, October 2, 1992 The Observer page 25 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
. ND/SMC Equestrian Club is holding an. intermural horse show October 11 for all members. The registration deadline for new members is October 2. If you want more details call Megan 283·2784 or Julie at 283-4042. 
Irish Youth Hockey League is looking for ND students to coach or assist coaches during the upcoming hockey season. If interested, contact Scott Gosselin at 271-7414. 
· The Aikido Club will be having open practices on Mondays and Wednesdays from 6-8 p.m. in Rockne 219. Everyone is welcome. 
Officials are needed for RecSports co-ree basketball. There will be a meeting on October 8 at 5:30 p.m. in the JACC Auditorium. 
RecSports ts taking entries for campus badminton, men's and women's interhall volleyball and co-ree basketball. Entry deadline is October 7. 
NO/SMC womenfs lacrosse will meet at Loftus at 10 p.m. on Monday and Wednesday. All members should come on both days. Call Heather at 284-5103 if you have any questions. 
ND SMC 
Students

zorh Annual Summer Program LONDON ROME 
May 19 .. June 18 June 13 .. July 12 
ravel in Ireland, Travel in France, cotland, and France Germany, and Switzerland 
Courses offered in 

BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, NURSING, 
EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN, MUSIC 
MEETING Monday Oct. 5, · 
6:30 p.m. Carroll Hall, SMC • Free pizza Past students and faculty participants will be present 
For information call Prof. Black 284,4460 or 272,3726 

TRY OUR EXCmNG NEW SHRIMP DISHES. 
Shoney's four great new shrimp dinners. They're all just plain delicious. New Shrimp Stir-FI]', Grilled Shrimp, Shoney's Special Recipe Shrimp and Buffalo Shrimp with a hot dipping sauce. All four are served with your choice of potato or rice and, 
~~~~~~~~~a~~~;~~~:tfas::;~ ~HONE,~ 
Salad and Fruit Bar. You're CJ ,(CJ shrimply going to love them. HIMPDINtiRS ® 
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 
Lacrosse begins fall schedule 
By AlAN AKEY Sports Writer 
"Former All-Americans against future All-Americans." That is how head coach Kevin Corrigan bills today's lacrosse match between the Irish and Bachrach all-stars. 
"The Bachrach squad is made up of former college players," said Corrigan, "Seven or eight of them are former collegiate All-Americans." 
But these lacrosse alumni are former only in graduate status. "These players are still very active in club lacrosse. The game should be a real chal­lenge for us," he continued. 
The Irish are not without tal­ent of their own. The squad is led by senior Brian Maygloth­ling, junior Randy Colley, and sophomore Mike Iorio. Accord­ing to Corrigan, "These three players are potential All-Ameri­cans this year." 
Colley is optimistic about the team's chances going into the match. "The level of play in practice has been picking up. The team has been more fo­cused and we've been playing together well. 
"The match against Bachrach will give us some good prepa­ration for upcoming contests. Particularly the Syracuse tour­nament we have in a couple weeks," he explained. 
That tournament features several of America's premiere teams, including host Syracuse. The Orangemen have won three of the last five national championships in division I lacrosse. Cornell, another top division I team, and Hobart, a division III powerhouse, round out the field. 
"The quality of the Bachrach squad should be similar to that of the teams we will face at Syracuse. This game will give us a good indication of how we will measure up there,~ said Colley. 
Daly amongst five who lead Southern Open 
PINE MOUNTAIN, Ga. (AP) ­
John Daly. who last week won ..... 
the B.C. Open for his second 
PGA Tour victory, shot a S­
under-par 67 on Thursday, his 
fifth consecutive round of 6 7 or 
better. for a share of the first­
round lead in the Southern 
Open. 
Using his length ofT the tee to shrink the 7,057-yard, par-72 Mountain View Golf Course at Callaway Gardens, Daly shot nines of 34 and 33 to grab a share of the lead with Ed Humenik, Kelly Gibson, Ed Fiori and rookie Robert Friend. 
Humenik had a tournament­

best 31 on the front nine and 
Fiori had a 31 for the best 
score on the back nine. 
At 68 were Phil Mickelson, who made five birdies and one bogey, and Gary Hallberg, who was at 5-under before making bogey on the par-4 17th. 
"Keeping my swing as slow as I have, even last week, has really paid off," said Daly, who pocketed $144,000 for last week's victory, his first since winning the 1991 PGA. "I've just been hitting so many more greens than usual. This is ­probably one of the most solid first rounds I think I've played all year. I just hope to keep the tempo going." 

The Observer/ John Rock Randy Colley, shown here last season, will lead the Irish this weekend. 
The Department of Music Presents 
'Boston Museum 'Trio 
DANIEL STEPNER LAURA JEPPESEN JOHN GIBBONS HARPSICHORD
BAROQUE VIOLIN VIOLA DA GAMBA 
WORKS BY SCARLATTI, TARTINI, RAMEAU, AND BACH 
Sunday 
October 4, 1992 
2:00p.m. 


Annerberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art 
$5 General Admission, $2 Students and Senior Citizens 
~GIANT 
~ TM Precisely Night choice! 
In the city... ()n the road... Or in the rnountains... 

Ciiant® takes your cycling seriously. Giant hicyclcs are designed. engineered ancj craftcc1 to t:>c your precisely rigtH choice. Tt1ey'rc easy to ride. easy to enjoy and easy to afford...Let us help you ct1oosc the one that fits your cycling needs. 
ONE OF MICHIANA'S LARGEST BICYCLE DEALERS. 
BRIGHT" S


CYCLING & FITNESS 
2720 LINCC)LN\VAY \Vl::Sl~ MISI li\\VJ\K,\, lNl)IANA 46544 Phone: 255-8988 (I 1/2 blocks cast of Ironwood.) 
rneJ#r-----,r----------,
I I I Deal #2 I I 1 0 °/o 0 ff ~ I I .::._-;:;..::.;:;..::.;;,..;:::,.;;,.-=;;;...;::::;...0::.. I I any helmet I I .!.~!.~~~!.~ ~~!.~~ I 1 with 1 1 1 1 new bike . 1 I 20% off 1 purchase 1 any one tire & tube 1 tOne coupon per visit. Not valid 1 : I 
with other promotions. I One coupon per visit. Not valid I1Expires 10/31/92 lwith ~ther promotions. 1 ~-------·---.J ~!P!!:~ !_01,!~9!----...1 
, 
page 26 The Observer Friday, October 2, 1992 
Competetive fields will put Irish runners to test 

ND men favored behind their All-
American duo 
By SEAN SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
"This is going to be one hell of a cross country meet," said Notre Dame head coach Joe Piane. 
Today the Notre Dame men's cross country team will host the 37th Annual Notre Dame Invitational. Held at Burke Memorial Golf Course, this is one of the nation's oldest and largest cross country invitationals. 
The men's race, beginning at 
4:45 pm should again feature 

'""' one of the strongest fields in collegiate cross country. The field includes two teams ranked in the top ten, sixth-ranked Notre Dame and eighth-ranked Michigan. 
The Irish enter this weekend's race with the momentum of winning their last two competitions. The first was a 24-31 dual meet victory over Georgetown on September 12 and the second was a win in the National Catholics on September 25. 
Returning this week to the Irish lineup is senior Nick Radkewich who finished third for the Irish at the meet last year. Radkewich who rested last race due to a rigorous racing schedule this summer, should add great depth to the Irish top seven. 
The Notre Dame harriers who have had impressive performances in their last two races now face their first true test. Once again Piane feels that it is important for the Irish to run as a team. While Michigan and Eastern Michigan have some exceptional runners, Notre Dame is still the team to beat. With All-Americans Mike McWilliams and John Coyle plus the return of senior Nick Radkewich the Irish have the ability to put on a show of force in this important meet. 
Eastern Michigan, currently ranked 22nd, and an impressive caste of top ranked NAIA. NCAA Division II and NCAA Division III schools round out the field. 
Malone and Hillsdale are the second and third-ranked NAIA schools, Southern Indiana and South Dakota State are top ranked Division II schools and Northern Central College, Augustana of Illinois are the top three Division Ill schools in the nation. 
Outstanding individuals to watch include Division II champion Martin Lyons from the University of Pennsylvania Edinborough and the "flying Romanian" Sandu Rebenciuc the Division III champion out of Augustana. Rebenciuc finished second in last year's race. 

"I expect this to be a triangular meet," said Piane. j He believes that the race will come down to the three district
t rivals, Notre Dame, Michigan, and Eastern Michigan battling for the team title. 
"This race is a real prelude to the district championships," 

Women's team looks to establish itself against tough competition 

Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's cross country team will host the Notre Dame Invitational Friday. Coming off a convincing victory last weekend at the National Catholic Invitational, the Irish will compete against some running powerhouses. including Michigan, Western Ontario, and South Dakota St. 
The competition at this meet is a change of pace over last week. Notre Dame placed six finishers in the top seven. 
Sophomore Sarah Riley, who was named Midwest Collegiate Conference Player-of-the-Week last week, should pace the Irish again Friday. But senior captain Lisa Gorski and sophomore teammates Stephanie Jensen, Emily Husted, Eva Flood, Becky Alfieri, and Kristi Kramer should challenge Riley. 
With a team effort, the women are hoping to improve on their personal times as they face their toughest competition so far this year. 
By MIKE NORBUT 
"The competition will be tougher than it was last week," said sophomore Kristi Kramer, who placed tenth in last week's meet. "It will tell us where we stand as far as our district is concerned. We're excited, and it's going to be a great race." 
The women's race is sched­uled to start at 4:00 p.m. Friday at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. The Irish are hoping for a large spectator turnout in their last home meet of the season. 
Take your heart to court. 
Exercise serves you right. 

IaAmerican Heart V Association 
WE'RE FIGHTII\G FOR 
lOJRLIFE 


MACRI'S PIZZA 
& ITALIAN RESTAURANT Delicious , Homemade Pizza & PmUl 
Buy Any 18" Pizza and Get 12" 
he Observer 1Scott Schittl Irish runners hope to set the pace against today's competetive field. 
k
One(JFo~v~s!.~~oz~'~'~EE
Offer Good for Dine In, Carry Out, Delivery 
EE Delivery to Campus 11 a.m. , 10 p.m. 
271 .. 2055 
_... ,~ Alumni Field 5:00pm 

LAW 

~-,v.. Men's Soccer vs Xavier 
~'\>

']'!/ Alumni Field 7:30 pm 
Sunday 

SCHOOL 
Nationally ranked Women's Soccer vs #2 Stanford Alumni Field 12:30 pm 
Free food and drink compliments ofthe Alumni Association and Coca-Co/a 

CARAVAN
Men's Soccer vs Dayton Alumni Field 3:00pm 
sponsored by Teacher's Credit Union 
Monday, October 5 
a mother, a daughter, a lover. relationships can be murder. 
10:00 a.m. --2:00 p~m. Monogram Room, JACC 
"DELICIOUSLY
victoria abrll 

(Enter Gate 2, Then Upstairs) 
FUNNY!"
marisa parades 
-D1Yicl Denby, NEW YORK MAGAZINE 
miguel bose 

Representatives From 
An engaging spoof 




"****' 
about love, lust 
Over 50 Law Schools Nationwide-­
and murder." 
-Bruce Wllll8111son, NEW WOMAN 
Information, Brochures 
"BRILLIANT!" 
-Marcil P1lly, PENTHOUSE 
All Students Invited! 
said Piane. These three schools and Wisconsin make up the top 
Co-sponsored by
~ four schools of District 4 of the 
11 
I NCAA. "A good performance 
Career and Placement Services 
~·' 
I 
... here gives us a leg up in the 
and Pre-Law Society 
I• districts." 

Today • 
Friday, October 2, 1992 page 27 
SPELUNKER 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
So Ff\R , Trt£ R~ 1\'Rt: ONL'I 111 VILLAINS IN THE Cow-Boi UNIVERSE. AND lHEY'R~ItU­
t..AMf OR BEHIND BARS 
MY ANNDYINfn St0£KICI{ 15 DEI'rfJ FO~ Tif€ nM€ F,E1N6, AND Tlte 'FRIDl."IE IS 
FULL OF SODA 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Agreed, in a sa Mugwump's way stance
1 Dancer's 34 Dockworkers' 10 Buyergliding step org. 
at Type of rummy7 Deutsch 35 Berne book: 
expletives 12 "The die -" 1964
11"­
83 Possessive 

Miserables" 40 Siamang, e.g. pron. 14 Ganef 4t Arrow poison, 84 Anagram for 12 
also called 
15 Nixon's pet Down 
, curare_
17 Mezzo-soprano 85 Saint-Saens's Varnay 42 Suffix with 
sharpscount or11 Most snively number

11 Player like 44 Far from subtle DOWN
Rickey Henderson 
48 Start of a t A 1929 event 21 Embellishes, Hemingway title 2 Dispatchwith "up" 48 Othello's 
3 Starwort 22 Rosemary, e.g. ancient 
4Ciawat 23 Glacial ridges 52 Thin -(very 
5 Spanker 25 Ensigns slim) 
1 E German river 28Author of 55 Sang like a 
?Feign"Momo": 1978 Tyrolean 

aJewish elementary school 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE I Centers ....................~ to Heap of stones ~~~~ t t Sediment t2Gaelic ...!.+=+=+~~ t3 Concordes 11 ·Gin a body -body": Burns .:...,.;::.,a.:~~ 20 Rajah's wife ~~~ 24 Bohemian dances 21 Smith and Hirt 21 Short snort .:.,:.,.:~:-+:::~ 21 Nursery tumbler ..=..&...:...+:.,....+.;;~ 30 Jai ­~.;.+;,..,_~ 31 Manta ~.=.a.:..;.a,:=.J,.,;;...o~ 32 Cassette 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
So iT'5 NOTHIN6J &lrKICK­IN&l -v P 1"'1'{ FEET, KNOCI<iNG-1 [3ACt< So/VJE LOVfL'I (ARBcN-'-----~~~::;:::-;-:::::""1 
AfED BEVERNnE.S AND WA-TLHINrfJ Hll2£l RERuNS, 
AS NOTI-I JN(n EA F:rH 5 HA1'tEl< "'!&! ( oNmwes Tll HFtPPtN 

BILL WATIERSON 

It was always a bizarre spectacle, but no one ever, ever, ridiculed the Teapot Kid. 


47 Muslim 53 Child's magistrates command 41 Robert and Alan 54 Rainbows 
3eHopscotch 37Mauna­31 Pelagic bird a Job's need 43 Conductor 
Caldwell 44George Washington, e.g. 4S Yankee pitcher in 1980 
CAMPUS 

Friday " 
7 p.m. Benefit concert for the Catholic Worker House, Notre Dame Folk Choir." Holy Cross Brothers' Center {across from WNDU·TV). Sponsored by Notre Dame Folk Choir. 
Saturday 

9:30 a.m. Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous. Multipurpose Room, Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
MENU 
Saint Mary's 
Baked Lasagna 

50 Foxes' quarry se "Metamor­
Broiled Flounder 

phoses" creator 51 "Till the Day I 
Tarragon Chix Quarters 

Die" playwright 57 Lucy's spouse 52"... much­s•New life was worth" : Orleans-to­Sterne Savannah dir. 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

COMING ATTRACTIONS: 
Laugh your heart out at the RUSSELL STIMMONS COMEDY JAM 8 p.m. at Stepan. Admission is $1 0.00. 
········-------------····------­
FRIDAY 
at Cushing Auditorium. 


SATURDAY 
Relax at the movies after the game!! FATHER OF THE BRIDE is held over for your convenience!! Showings at 8:00 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium. 
--·---------------------­
• 


Sports 

page 28 
RICH KURZ 
Eye in the Sky 
British fans know their sports-just not the right ones 
Having had the great pleasure of 
spending the past semester across the 
big pond, over in the country we beat 
up to get our independence (England, 
for all of you non-history majors}, I feel 
it is only my civic duty to relate some of 
the stranger goings-on in the British 
sports scene. 
Contrary to what you may have 
heard, they do play football in the 
United Kingdom, but they got their 
sports mixed up. What they call 
football, we call soccer. Anyways. there 
are many similarities between the 
American and British forms of the 
game. 
For instance, the match itself is little more than a side show to the fans having a good time, except the fans over there are a little more rabid. English football fans get drunk before games, act loud and obnoxious and insult the opposing fans. Of course, after the game, the British fans get a little more emotional. Supporters of the losing team often start brawls and riots. pulling out their knives and broken bottles to keep the winners from celebrating too much. Then again, sometimes the winners brawl and riot to show just how much they love their team. 
Then there is the other national game, cricket. If anyone reading this even remotely understands the game, then you are way ahead of me. Actually, I do have somewhat of a grasp of the game, it just took an Aussie about four hours {and a pint or two) to explain the game to me. 
It's kind of like baseball, except there 
are only two bases, but they aren't 
called bases, they're called wickets, 
and there are two people up all the 
time, at least until nine of the ten 
players get out, in which case there is 
only one batter, but then that team's 
chance to bat is over because there is 
only one player up. 
The pitcher, called the bowler, tries to 
hit the wicket, which is a pile of sticks, 
while the batter tries to hit the ball 
with a two by four. But if he does hit it, 
and doesn't want to run, he doesn't 
have to. 
The real beauty of cricket, though, is 
the players themselves. By the looks of 
them, British sports medicine isn't 
quite up to par with the rest of the 
world. Most of the players spend their 
off-hours in pub and have the general 
round shape of an over-the-hill pro 
wrestler. 
But British sports on television sums it all up. Imagine my roommates' and my great delight on the first weekend, while we were still experienceing NFL withdrawal, to flip on the dart champi­onship. But before you start getting images of those silly plastic darts various amusement establishments put up to rob us of more money, think again-these are finely skilled athletes, whose darts are weighted to the milligram. 
INSIDE SPORTS 
•cross--country hosts meet 
see page 26 
,. 

•Lacrosse opens fan season 
see page 25 
IISaint Mary's soccer preview 
see page 22 
: ... 


Irish soccer teams doing double duty 
Women face ranked foes 
ByGEORGEDOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame plays host to the Golden Dome Classic this weekend with four nationally­ranked women's soccer teams seeing action on Alumni Field. Second-ranked Stanford, 13th­ranked Central Florida, and #14 Wisconsin join the 20th­ranked Irish on the card. Stanford and Central Florida open the tournament at 2:30. Notre Dame will meet regional foe Wisconsin following that game. The Badgers earned a trip to the NCAA championship game last year, after finishing 1991 with a 17-2-0 record. The loss of five starters from last year's team has greatly affected the Badgers this season. Their record stands at 4-2-1, equal­ing their loss total from last season. Five senior starters pace Wis­consin's attack, but the best player on the team is junior Erica Handelman. The forward led the team in scoring in 1991, posting 15 goals. 
"Wisconsin is a good team. They have good size. and a number of fine players," said Irish coach Chris Petrucelli. 
see WOMEN/ page 20 

Men ready to show MCC strength against Xavier, Dayton 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's soccer team is hoping that some of the electricity surrounding the football weekend will spill over onto Alumni Field. 
They will need the spark as they tangle with Midwestern Collegiate Conference rivals Xavier and Dayton. 
Tonight's game against Xavier will be the first home game for the Irish since September 20 and they are happy be back on familiar turf. 
"We like playing at Alumni Field," Notre Dame coach Mike Berticelli said. "It's always nice to be home and it will be a great environment this weekend." 
The Irish, 4-3-1 overall and 1-0 in the MCC, have struggled early in the season against some of the nation's top teams, but that experience should pay off as 
I •

they head into 
Huskies set to defend their spot atop the polls 
(AP)-Surely, the Washington Huskies will learn that reaching the top is easier than staying there. 
Considering they took over the No. 1 ranking last week by doing nothing, the Huskies already have a dilemma ­an opponent. 
Make that two. -First, there's 20th-ranked Southern Cal, the Huskies' opponent on Saturday in a crucial Pac-10 game. -Then, there's the winner of the showdown between No. 2 Miami and No. 3 Florida State. 
Armed with the knowledge that Miami's 8-7 victory last week over Arizona dropped the Hurricanes (3-0) to No. 2, the Huskies must realize that just winning probably won't keep them on top. It will probably take an impressive victory to hold the ranking. • 
It's an issue coach Don James won't address. " ... Play each game as it it comes and let the polls take care of themselves," James said. 
Meanwhile, Miami is pinning its hopes on quarterback Gino Torretta, who has known both success and failure against the Seminoles (4-0). That, wide receiver Lamar Thomas insists, is a plus. 
"He knows what to do and what not to do when it comes to this game," Thomas said. 
The Hurricane quarterback was intercepted four times when Miami lost to Florida State in 1989 and twice last year. But, after after being picked off twice last year, Tor­retta engineered a pair of fourth-quarter drives that gave Miami a 17-16 victory and eventually a share of national honors with Washington. 
In other games Saturday, it will be Iowa (1-3) at No. 4 Michigan (2-0-1), Texas Tech (2-2) at No. 5 Texas A&M (4­0), No. 18 Stanford (3-1) at No. 6 Notre Dame (3-0-1), 
see FOOTBALL/ page 24 
• I • I • 

Friday, October 2, 1992 
Ap .I 0: ~ ~--./3 
9/27 Team 9(2() 
1. Washington 3-0-0 1525 2 2. Miami 3-0-0 1471 1 3. Florida State 4-0-0 1431 3 4. Michigan 2-0-1 1321 4 5. Texas A&M 4-0-0 1267 5 6. Notre Dame 3-0-1 1228 6 7. Tennessee 4-0-0 1172 8 8. Penn State 4-0-0 1127 9 9. Alabama 4-0-0 1123 7 10. Colorado 4-0-0 955 10 11. UCLA 3-0-0 920 11 12. Ohio State 3-0-0 840 12 13. Florida 1-1-0 768 13 14. Virginia 4-0-0 761 14 15. Nebraska 3-1-0 668 15 16. Georgia 3-1-0 607 18 17. Syracuse 2-1-0 553 17 18. Stanford 3-1-0 527 19 
19. Oklahoma 2-1-0 359 20 
20. Southern Cal 1-0-1 352 22 
21. N. Carolina State 4-1-1 348 23 
22. Boston College 4-0-0 297 25 
23.GeorgiaTech 2-1-0 178 
24. Mississippi State 2-1-0 75 
25. Clemson 1-2-0 64 
This weekend begins a stretch of five consecutive conference games that will be especially important for the Irish to solidify their position in the MCC. 
"This is a very big weekend," Berticelli said. "We have to be ready to play because conference games are the most important for us right now." 
The winner of the MCC regular-season title earns the top seed in the post-season 
. -.... 

·~--­

. .J -· . • • . 

. . ' . • • J , . . ' . . . ~ ~-~ 
. . ----..
L //'(/. L .) c. t ;/ / I ~-._ I 
Irish Football 

A Supplement to The Observer 


Reggie Brooks and the Notre Dame offense hope to pick apart Stanford's defense, rated second nationally. 
page 2 Notre Dame vs. Stanford Friday, October 2, 1992 
GAME NOTES --. 
THE GAME: Notre Dame (3-0-1) versus Stanford (3-1). 
KICKOFF: 12:35 p.m. EST. 
TV and RADIO: NBC (Tom Hammond, Cris Collinsworth and John Dockery) will provide national television coverage. Mutual Radio Network (Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna) will broadcast the game to a national radio audience. 
TICKETS: Notre Dame Stadium {59,075) is sold out. 
RANKINGS: Notre Dame: AP 6th. USA Today/CNN 7th. Stanford: AP 18th, USA Today/CNN: 19th. 
THE SERIES: Notre Dame leads the series 6-2. The teams have split the last two games. 
THE LAST TIME: Notre Dame beat Stanford 42-26 at Stanford Stadium. 
Jerome Bettis rushed for 179 yards and became the first Irish player since 1987 to score four touchdowns in one game. 
LAST WEEK: Notre Dame blanked Purdue, 48-0, while Stanford got past San Jose State, 37-13. 
FYI: Notre Dame leads the nation in total offense. 
The winner of the game receieves the Legends Trophy, a combination of Irish crystal and California redwood. It was first presented in 1989 by the Notre Dame Club of the San Francisco Bay Area. 
SCHEDULES 
NO.I.REQAME. 

SeptemberS at NorthNesterrr 
September 12 MCHIGAN Septembe: 19 at M~gan State :September 26 PURDUE . 
Cttooor:s  STANFORD  
.0ctoDe(1 0  at Pirtsb0rgh  
Cctober 2t  BYU  
O:tooer 31  at Navy 
•No~~oor /  BOSJ.O'J COLL.  
Nove~oor ;~;  Ft~IN STATE  
Noveroor 28  at USC  

vv 42} T17+1-T 
W'52~3t 
W48-Ck 
:-:.. 
-: 
. ,....._. 
. . .........._~-:_:_,I 
J 



STANRlRD 
hJgust 26---•· Texas A..~l~~'',~!',~·nr-· LT-10 Ssote:nrer:2 OREGON -. W2l-7 Septefllber 19 N001Hv\IESTERNV135~ 24 Septembe~ 2b SN'JJOSE STATEtV37~l3 
CLtober3  at NOtre Dame  · ·  · · ·  -·  
CVtober :0  at-UCLA- 
October 17...  .ARIZOY\  
Oc~a·ber ')J_• • ., !...  "'+ Ort::>N\(' s:_q·oc, .v~Vl .. _.. -·'-'  -·  
CX!ober3~  atWasr.:-~otu-,  
Novembe' 7  USC  v  
Noverr.r~r 1~  \'VASHlf\KJTON STAJE  
Novemoe' 21  at Ol;iforr:ia  

Notre Dame vs. Stanford Section Staff 
Design Mike Scrudato _ Rolando de Aguiar 
Production Melissa Cusack Rolando de Aguiar Mike Scrudato 
Lab Tech Jake Peters 
Reggie Brooks is shown on a scoring run against Michigan. During the run, he refused to go down, escaping five hits by Wolverine · defenders and collapsing into the end zone, dazed. Brooks was helped off of the field after the 20-yard scamper put the Irish up 6-0. 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Associate Sports Editor 
Entering the 1992 season, Reggie Brooks was a question mark . 
The graduation and departure of Rodney Culver and Reggie's brother Tony to the NFL left a gaping hole behind Rick Mirer and Jerome Bettis. 
But with 487 rushing yards through four games, including 205 last Saturday against Purdue. the senior tailback has transformed himself into an exclamation point. 
During spring practice, coaches and players alike wondered who would be able to fill that hole in the Irish backfield. But, by the time fall practice had rolled around, coach Lou Holtz was convinced that Brooks was his man. 
"Reggie has excellent speed, a lot more strength than you'd think and great balance," Holtz said. "He had never been able to utilize his speed until this year, because he spent a lot of time running laterally. But (running backs) coach (Earle) Mosley helped him transform himself from an east-west runner into a north-south runner." 
Brooks has been running north and south for very long distances this season, having broken touchdown runs of 80 and 63 yards versus Purdue and a 72-yarder against Northwestern in the season opener. 
Through these runs, Brooks has become the big-play man the Irish have been looking for ever since Raghib "Rocket" Ismail packed his bags and headed north after the 1990 season. But, Brooks doesn't spend time pondering his big runs of past weeks. 
"Hopefully there will be more (long runs) to come." he said. "I don't think too much about the past because there's a lot to look forward to." 
This week, Brooks is looking forward to Stanford, and its defense, ranked second nationally. But the tailback is not sure exactly what moves he'll have to make to elude Ron George and the rest of the Cardinal defense. 
"I don't know what I can exploit, because they're pretty solid all around," Brooks said. "We'll just have to go in and execute." 
In last week's defeat of Purdue, the Irish offense executed everything except Purdue's history during a grisly 48-0 suffocation in the sloppy mud of Notre Dame Stadium. With three touchdown runs and the first 200-yard game for any Notre Dame runner in nine seasons, Brooks led the onslaught against the Boilers. 
"It's always good when you are successful, but especially Saturday, when we performed well in such terrible conditions," Brooks said. 
Brooks led the charge in the rain, but was supported by the performances of Mirer and Bettis. The latter two, presea­son Heisman Trophy candidates, were also seen as the cornerstones of the Irish offense. But statistically, Brooks has outshined both during Notre Dame's first four games. 
But Brooks attributes much of his success to opposing defenses' attention on the Irish quarterback and fullback. 
"The attention on Rick and Jerome has made it quite a bit simpler for me," Brooks said. "Most teams are constantly aware of the talent that Jerome and Rick possess, and they are focused to stop those two guys. 
"They tend to fall asleep when the tailback gets the ball. I'm trying to make it easier on Jerome and Rick so that we can use their talents. But I am also making them (opposing teams) respect the tailback position." 
If Brooks hasn't been able to impress the opposition with his numbers, then they must be impressed by his performances on national television. Perhaps Brooks' most spectacular run came in the Irish home opener against Michigan, when the senior bounced ofT of five different members of the Wolverine defense on his way into the end zone, giving Notre Dame a 6-0 lead. 
"I don't recall breaking as many tackles as everyone said I did," he said. "I got bounced around a lot, but basically I just made one spin move. and then I was able to keep my balance." 
As Brooks crossed the goal line, he was on the receiving end of a shot from Michigan's Coleman Wallace. The hit spun him around and dumped him on the end zone grass. 
"When I fell in the end zone, I was dazed," Brooks said. "He got a good shot on me at the end." 
Despite the questions and attention that arose from that run, Brooks refuses to acknowledge it as a remarkable individual effort. He also denies comparisons to Irv Smith's touchdown reception in the 1991 season opener, in which the tight end dragged several Indiana Hoosiers into the end zone. 
"I didn't see it as being as spectacular as people were telling me it was," Brooks said. "Even after I saw it on film, it looked a lot simpler to me than people told me it was. 
"With Irv there was no other way you could put it, because he dragged four guys twenty yards. His run overshadows mine completely." 
Despite Brooks' modesty, the senior is being looked upon as another workhorse in the bruising Irish backfield. 
His performance in 1992 has answered the questions of his doubters, and put an exclamation point on the Irish backfield. 
Friday, October 2, 1992 Notre Dame vs. Stanford page 3 
Minter's defense seeks to maintain intensity 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 
Rick Minter's eyes always 
seem to be focused. Intensely 
focused on the task at hand, as 
his locked jaw shouts instruc­
tions in his Texas accent. 
Let head coach Lou Holtz give 
the press their quotes and 
quips. Minter will just continue 
to do the job with his no-frills 
style of coaching. 
The first-year defensive co­
ordinator was hoping that his 
constant intensity would rub off 
on his defensive players this 
season, as it has in the past 
during his seven-year tenure at 
Ball State. 
In 1990, the Cardinals fin­
ished second in the nation in to­
tal defense and last year they 
ranked 11th in the country. 
1ne Notre Dame defense, led here by Greg Lane (33), converges on Michigan's Jesse Johnson during the September 12 game.
But this year's Irish defense has not put up the same type of usually dormant Northwestern up and stay focused." The defense responded. It had "The defense needed a shot in numbers. After the first three offense racked up 408 yards, There is that word again-in-been forcing a lot of second and the arm, and this shutout gave the Irish let up 3 7 8 against tensity. Holtz saw that was the third-and-long situations, but us a confidence boost," said Michigan, and Michigan State one ingredient that was missing letting the offenses pick up Minter. "Now I think we're on
"The defense 
ended up with an astounding from his defense, as they have those crucial first downs. On the right track." 483 yards, and even though the talent and skills to be one of Saturday, the defense stopped To stay on that right track,needed ashot in some of that was against the the nation's best defenses. Purdue in 10 of a possible 13 Minter and the defense will second-string defense, the That is why before the final third-down situations.· have to be on their toes againstthe arm, and this numbers are not something to practice last week, Holtz "It gets down to getting our-some of the nation's top of­sneeze at. brought his defense together selves off the field when we fenses. This week they face ashutout gave us a However, the times are and challenged it to prove that need to," stated Minter, "You're Stanford squad led by offensive changing. Last Saturday the it was not one of the worst de-not going to be perfect, but we genius Bill Walsh, and later theyconfidence boost. Notre Dame defense recorded fenses in the country. He really made an improvement. will meet up with an explosive 
its first shutout of the season, stressed that the only way it "They were just ready to play. Penn State offense. 
limiting the highly-regarded was going to improve is to up its The coaches had a good game Only time will tell whether the
Now I think we're 
Purdue offense to just 226 total intensity, and instill an attitude plan and we executed it for the defense can keep their intensity yards. The Irish defense frus-in itself that each and every first most part. Basically we did two up, and keep opponent's
on the right 
trated the Boilermakers, as they down is an affront to its ability. things. We committed to a little yardage totals down. Minter 
played incredibly stingy, and "His words of encouragement more pressure and we made feels they can.track." finally, intense defense. had an impact," said Minter. more plays on third down." "We certainly have the talent, "That is what we've been "We have some guys on this Saturday's showing was so we just have to progress," said -Rick Minter striving for all season," noted team who have a lot of pride impressive that it looks like it Minter. "We 'II need a com­
tackle Bryant Young, who ac-and what he did is just chal-· could be a definite turning point bination of stepping up our games of the season, the Irish counted for a team-high seven lenge them. The truth hurts for the defensive unit. game and coming together, then ranked 96th out of 107 Division tackles on Saturday. ''Now we sometimes, and he got their at-"It felt real good," said we can look back and say it was 1-A schools in total defense. A just have to keep the intensity tention." Young. a great year." 

Come Our Experience Our Dream Come True Mon Fri Open At 6:30 a.tn. Saturday At 7:30 a.tn. Gourmet Coffees & Gormet Sandwiches  GAME DAY SPECIALS CoLOR T.V.'s MICHIANA'S BEST COFFEE "NATURAL Foons FoR YOUR TAILGATING"  





~ ----------------~~~~~----~~------------------------------...................... 
page 4 Friday, October 2, 1992
Notre Dame vs. Stanford 

Defense will be deciding factor 
By JENNY MARTEN ing one for a touchdown al­Associate Sports Editor ready this year, while Albert has picked off one of his own. 
Saturday's contest pitting The job of this experienced Stanford Cardinal against Notre defense will be to control Rick Dame will be decided by the Mirer and company. The Notre 2 Lenard Marcus CB 5-9 175 So. 
51 Estevan Avila DE 6-3 285 Sr. defenses. Dame offense received a lift in 3 Kent Burke RB 5-8 170 So. 
52 Toby Norwood ILB 6-0 215 Jr. Stanford comes into Notre the last two games with strong 4 Vaughn Bryant CB 5-11 180 Jr. 
53 Emmanuel Ba.rt-Piange OLB 6-1 215 Sr. Dame Stadium with the second­offensive efforts by Mirer and 5 Glyn Milburn RB 5-9 175 Sr. 
54 Rick Pallow C 6-4 270 Sr. ranked defense in the country the receiving corps as well as 6 Eric Abrams PK 5-7 160 Fr. 
55 Sean Cavanaugh OG 6-4 255 Fr. and the Irish come into the Jerome Bettis, Reggie Brooks 7 Mark Butterfield 08 6-4 200 So.. 
56 Damon Southward OLB 6-3 220 So. game with a much improved and Lee Becton. 8 Kwame Ellis CB 5-10 175 Fr. 
57 Kurt Criter OLB 6-3 220 So. one. Walsh sees this as a serious 9 Troy Kent 08 6-1 195 Fr. 
58 Dave Grable ILB 6-3 224 So. "Stanford is as good a defen­threat. 10 Ron Redell CB 6-3 195 Sr. 
59 T.J. Gaynor C 6-5 270 So. sive team as we've seen in sev­"A problem will be that Notre 11 Paul Stonehouse p 5-8 175 Sr. 
60 Tyrone Parker DE 6-4 290 Sr. eral years. The secondary is Dame's offense has far more 12 Marion Evans WR 6-0 175 Fr. 
61 Tyler Batson DE 6-5 260 Sr. very good. The defensive line is dimension then we've seen so 13 Mark Hatzenbuhler ILB 6-1 225 Jr. 
62 Carl Mennie OT 6-5 270 So. very physical," said Notre Dame far this year. They have an out­14 Tommy Knecht FS 6-4 195 Jr. 
63 Parker Bailey OG 6-4 245 Jr. head coach Lou Holtz of a standing option game with Rick 15 Jami Webb FL 5-9 170 Fr. 
64 Eric Herrling OT 6-6 280 Fr. Stanford defense which returns Mirer. Put the ball in his hands 15 Jared Hopkins 08 6-1 210 Fr. 
65 Brian Cassidy OG 6-5 300 Sr. ten starters and 21 lettermen. and give him the option of 16 Seyon Albert ss 5-11 195 Sr. 
66 Mike Jerich OT 6-6 270 Jr. Stanford coach Bill Walsh pitching to a great back, let's 17 John Lynch FS 6-2 215 Sr. 
67 Clark Masters OT 6-3 260 Fr. compared his defense to the say in this case, it might be 18 Steve Stenstrom 08 6-2 200 Jr. 
68 Ryan Waters OG 6-5 265 So. Irish's. Brooks," said the former 49er 19 Chris Berg 08 6-0 200 So. 
69 Derron Klafter OT 6-7 290 Sr. "We didn't play well offen­coach. 20 Roger Boden FL 5-11 175 Jr. 
70 Ken Loncar OT 6-7 285 Fr. sively against San Jose State. Offensively, the Cardinal is 21 Darrien Gordon CB 6-1 185 Sr. 
71 John Hebert NT 6-5 250 So. We weren't in sync. We won also very experienced with six 22 Ozzie Grenardo FL 6-9 165 So. 
72 Jason Fisk NT 6-4 270 Jr. because we wore them out and starters returning including a 23 David Walker CB 5-11 185 Fr. 
73 Seth Dittman OT 6-7 280 Jr. played good defense. That's healthy chunk of the offensive 24 Scott Lange RB 5-9 180 So. 
74 Glen Cavanaugh C 6-7 290 Sr. line and two other key players 25 Ethan Allen RB 6-1 200 Jr. 
75 Steve Hoyem OT 6-8 300 Sr. in the offense. 26 J.J. Lasley FB 6-0 208 Sr. 
76 Jeff Bailey OT 6-7 290 Sr. "They get better every week 27 Matt Vaughn p 6-0 190 So. 
77 Jeff Buckey OT 6-5 290 Fr."A problem will offensively," said Holtz. "(Glyn) 28 Branyon Davis WR 6-1 170 So. 
78 Aaron Rembisz NT 6-3 265 Sr. Milburn is an outstanding back. 29 Ron George OLB 6-2 225 Sr. 
79 Allen Gonzalez DE 6-4 275 So.be that Notre He can do a lot of things and is 30 Damien Crochet CB 5-11 190 Sr. 
80 Justin Armour FL 6-6 215 So. prominent in their running 32 John Brockberg FB 6-3 220 So. 
81 Mike Cook WR 6-4 200 Sr.Dame's offense game and passing game. They 33 Ellery Roberts FB 6-1 215 Sr. 
82 Andre Kirwan WR 6-2 175 Fr. have a big, strong offensive line 34 Bryan Schultz WR 5-10 175 Sr. 
83 John Sims OLB 6-1 210 Fr. and a great quarterback in 35 Kevin Garnett OLB 6-1 225 $r. 
84 David Shaw WR 6-1 195 Jr.
has far more 
(Steve) Stenstrom. The receivers 36 Tom Williams ILB 6-0 235 Sr. 
85 Vince Otoupal OLB 6-3 220 Sr. don't have a lot of speed, but 37 Aaron Mills PK 6-0 175 Sr.
dimension then 
86 Ryan Wetnight TE 6-3 220 Sr. they have good hands." 
87 Tony Cline TE 6-5 230 Dr. Although All-American line­39 Mike Buckley RB 6-1 195 Sr. 
38 Billy Wittman CB 5-11 190 Sr. 
88 Jason Wingard TE 6-5 210 So.we've seen so far man Bob Whitfield left school 40 Nathan Olsen FB 6-4 245 So. 
89 David Calomese WR 6-0 180 Sr. early, the offensive line returns 40 James Patterson CB 5-10 185 Jr. 
90 Jaff Hansen TE 6-6 215 So.this year." senior tackle Steve Hoyem 41 John Henton FS 6-2 185 So. 
90 Brian Taylor DE 6-4 255 Jr. (6'8", 300), senior guard Chris 42 Dave Garnett OLB 6-1 225 Sr. 
91 Jason White DE 6-3 235 Fr.
-Bill Walsh 
92 Craig Thompson TE 6-2 220 Jr. guard Brian Cassidy (6'5", 300) · 44 Justin Morabito ILB 6-1 229 Fr. 
Dalman (6'4", 290), senior 43 Aaron Hazelrigg WR 5-11 175 Fr. 
93 Pete Swanson DE 6-5 265 Fr.
what Notre Dame usually does," and senior center Glen Ca­45 Josh Wright CB 6-2 175 Jr. 
94 Ryan Turner OT 6-6 250 Fr.
said Walsh. Last week, the vanaugh (6'7'', 290). 46 Jimmy Klein OLB 6-3 225 Jr. 
95 Coy Gibbs ILB 6-0 210 So.
Cardinal defense gave up just 
This corps of big men should 47 Hartwell Brown ILB 6-3 230 Jr. 
96 David Carder DE 6-5 250 So.
38 rushing yards to San Jose provide ample protection for 48 Mike Hall ILB 6-2 225 So. 
97 Ross McOuivey DE 6-4 260 Jr.
State. 
junior Cardinal quarterback, 49 Ed Herring WR 6-0 195 Sr. 
98 Damon Phillips OLB 6-3 210 So.
The defense will be led by one Stenstrom. Stenstrom earned 50 Chris Dalman OG 6-4 290 Sr. 
99 Rooney Thomas OLB 6-0 215 Fr.
of the most talented and 
the starting role last year and experienced pairs of outside led Stanford to seven straightlinebackers in the country in­
wins to close out the season last 
eluding All-American candidate year. So far this season, he has Ron George, a senior who has completed 78 passes on 129 at­also been named to the prelim­
tempts and is averaging 12.7 DEPTH CHART 
inary list of candidates for the 
yards per completion.
Butkus Award. 
His favorite targets include 
"Ron George presents a lot of sophomore Justin Armour and-----------------------------------------­problems because it's hard to pass protect against him with ~~~O:c ~6k:e~~~:r t~~[s ~~~~~ When the Cardinal have the ball 
just one man," said Holtz. and flanker Jon Pinckney.rP_ro_b_a_b_le_st_a_rt_e_rs
__in_b_oTid_f_a_c_e._______________________________~~M-----------------------. 
George notched four tackles 
FLANKER SPLIT END
Amour has 15 receptions this 
C d• I 
CORNERBACK

against San Jose State including · g· 18 7 
ar 1na 80-JustinArmourll-6. 2oa. so. 81-Mib Cooll6·4, 200, SR. 33-Grq Lane 5·9, 180, JR.
year and IS avera 1ng · 
89-DavidCalomese6-o, 185.SR. 84-0avid Shaw 6-1. 195, 37-Travis Davis
two quarterback sacks and a 

TACKLE 
6-0, 188, so.

yards a catch. Cook, has hauled 
ff 
7&-Jelf Bailey

fumble recovery. On the other in 16 catching this year for over 
0 ense 
6-7,310, SR. 
66-Mike Jerich

side of the field will be senior 
TACKLE 6-6, 270, JR. ' 52·Ginnalne Holden 
252 total yards.
outside linebacker Dave 
Another favorite target of 
6-4, 2C5, so. 
GUARD 95-Juni()l' Bryant
Garnett. Garnett has started 31 Stenstrom's is senior tight end 
65-Brtan Cassidy 6·4, 279, SR.
of his 38 games in his career at 
6-5, 305, SR. 

,
Ryan Wetnight. Stenstrom and 
59-T.J. ~or

Stanford. 
Wetnight connect an average of 
6·5. 255.'

The Cardinal also return 
three times a game and Wet­
starters at the inside linebacker 
night averages 11.9 yards per
position in senior Tom Williams reception.
and sophomore Coy Gibbs with The focal point of the Cardinal 
FULLBACK 
26-J.J. Lasley

junior Toby Norwood ready to 
NOSE

offense will be All-American 
6.0, 208, SR. 
TACKLE

step in when needed. 
33-EIIery Roberts

and Heisman Trophy candidate 
44-Jim Flani9aa

6·1, 215, SR. OUTSIDE LINEBACKER
The Stanford defensive line is 
. &-2, 2711, JR.

Glyn Milburn. Against San Jose 
89-Karmeeleyah McGill~ 55-Qiiver Gibson

continuing to improve with 
6-3, 233, SR.
6-3, 275, JR.

State, Milburn, ranked second 
30-Nick SmithGUARD 50-Greg Stec

several returning players such 
6-2, 229, SR.

in the nation in all-purpose 
50-Chris Dalman 6-2, 250, so. 
as junior nose tackle Jason Fisk, 
6-4, 2911, SR.
yardage, accounted for 256 all­
77·Jeff Buckey
senior defensive end Tyrone 
6-5, 290, FR.
purpose yards. He is also a po­Parker and senior defensive end 
tent kickoff and punt returner 
Estevan Avila. Avila is second 
racking up 107 yards on five 
on the team with four 
punts and returning a kickoff 39 
TACKLE

quarterback sacks including 
75-Steve Hoyem 6-8, 310. SR. FREE SAFETY
yards. 
69-Derron Klafler

two against San Jose State last 
INSIDE LINEBACKER 9-Jelf Burris
Also in the backfield will be 
6·7, 290. SR. 6-0, 204, JR.
49-Anthony Petenon
week. He also had five tackles 
6-0, 223, JR. 21-Bobby Taylor
senior J.J. Lasley who is aver­
46-Brian Ratigan 6·3, 190, FR.
in the game. 
aging 4.3 yards per carry. 6-5. 231. SR.
"The secondary has become a 43-Bill Wagasy
Lasley broke open for a 18-yard 
224. FR.
strength of the squad whereas 
trot against San Jose State, his in past years Stanford may not longest of the year. 
STRONG SAFETY

have had as much talent," 
Stanford's special team crew TACKLE 29-John CCIYingtonexplained Walsh in the Stanford 117-Bryan! Yeung . • INSIDE 6-2, 211' JR.
has two strong kickers this year. 2-leShane Saddler
6-3, m,JR. LINEBACKER 
5-10, 194. JR.

media guide. Senior Paul Stonehouse will 92-John Taliaferro 31-Demetrlus DuNn 
Leading the way in the Car­6-4, 226, SO. 6-2, 234, SR.
handle the punting re­4 7 ·Pete Sertich CORNERBACKdinal defensive secondary are 6·1. 237, JR. 9-Tom Garter
sponsibilities while high-school 
6-0, Z64,JR.
converted wide receivers Vaugh ........_ TIGHTEND
All-American Eric Abrams wi OUTSIDE 23 LaRon Moore 
""'''I 86-flyln Wltlllthl &-3, 225, SR.
Bryant and Darrien Gordon as LINEBACKER 5-9. 177, SO.
be the placekicker. Abrams is 87-Tony Cline 6-5.230, JR. 45-0nOn McDanaltl 
Irish

well as senior strong safety H,241,SR.
10 for 10 in PATs and is five for 
58-Jeremy Nau

Seyon Albert. Bryant has 
defense

six in field goal attempts. 6--4. 234. SO. 
intercepted two passes includ­
......................£.. 
Friday, October 2, 1992 Notre Dame vs. Stanford page 5 

NOTRE DAME IRISH ,,'··.l~
. . 
1992 ROSTER :; · 
1 Derrick Mayes 2 leShane Saddler 3 Rick Mirer 4 lee Becton 5 Paul Failla 6 Jerome Bettis 7 Dean L~tle 
8 Clint Jo nson 

9 Jeff Burris 10 Adrian Jarrell 11 Tom MacDonald 12 Kevin Pendergast13 Tom Carter 13 Matt Johnson 14 Ray Grig~s14 Stephen ope15 Kevin McDougal16 Chris Parenti 
.<; 16 Joe Smith 17 Brian Magee 18 Wade Smith 18 Stefan Schroffner 19 Mark Swenson 19 Jim Guerrera 20 Mark Andrzejewski 20 Lamar Guillory 21 Bobby Taylor 22 Shawn Wooden 22 Rob Leonard 23 Jeff Baker 23 LaRon Moore 24 Charles Stafford 25 Mike Lalli 25 Brent Boznanski 26 Drew Marsh 26 Mark Monahan 
-~ 27 Tracy Graham 27 David Fuentes 28 Craig Hentrich 29 John Covington 30 Nick Smith 31 Demetrius DuBose 32 Willie Clark 33 Greg Lane 34 Ray Zellars 35 Matt Adams 36 Jeremy Samhle 36 Jim Arbbrig t 37 Travis avis 38 Rick Lozano 38 Kevin Carretta 39 Matt Lahey 
-:: 40 Reg~ie Brooks 41 Joe abey42 Alton Maiden 43 Bill Wagasy 43 Tim Klusas 44 Jim Flanigan45 Devon McDonald 45 John Lynch 
DEPTH CHART 
WR CB QB TB QB FB FB SE FS FL QB K CB QB SE FS QB QB CB DB QB K FL QB 
ss 
CB DB FL 
K SE CB SE FS 
PK 
K DB 
ss 
FB KIP 
ss 
DE 
LB TB CB FB FB LB LB FS TB LB CB TB LB DE LB TB DT DE WR 
6-0 205 Fr. 5-10 194 Jr. 6-2 215 Sr. 5-11 190 So. 6-2 193 So. 5-11 254 Jr. 6-2 240 Jr. 5-8 180 Jr. 6-0 204 Jr. 6-0 194 Sr. 5-11 175 So. 5-10 168 Sr. 5-11 191 Jr. 5-11 192 Sr. 6-1 200 Sr. 6-3 199 Jr. 6-2 190 Jr. 5-11 193 Jr. 6-0 175 Sr. 5-11 195 Fr. 6-4 180 Fr. 5-9 160 So. 5-8 152 Jr. 6-0 176 Sr. 5-8 164 So. 5-9 190 Sr. 6-3 190 Fr. 5-10 177 So. 6-1 186 Jr. 5-11 183 Sr. 5-9 177 So. 5-10 176 So. 5-11 201 Sr. 6-4 185 Jr. 6-0 187 Jr. 6-0 180 Fr. 5-10 197 So. 5-9 198 Jr. 6-1 186 Sr. 6-2 211 Jr. 6-2 229 Sr. 6-2 238 Sr. 5-10 185 Jr. 5-9 180 Jr. 5-11 218 So. 6-0 235 Sr. 5-11 218 So. 5-10 215 So. 6-0 192 So. 5-10 189 Sr. 6-1 212 Fr. 6-1 165 Sr. 5-8 211 Sr. 6-1 218 Fr. 6-3 260 Fr. 6-2 224 Fr. 5-8 192 So. 6-2 276 Jr. 6-4 241 Sr. 6-2 185 Fr. 

46 Bnan Ratigan 6-5 47 Pete Berc1ch LB 6-1 237 Jr. 48 Renaldo WEftnn DE 6-3 230 Fr. 
48 Deswood tsitty FS 5-11 180 Sr. 49 Anthont Peterson LB 6-0 223 Jr. : 50 Greg Sec DT 6-2 250 So. ; 51 Stuart Tyner OG 6-4 282 Sr. 52 Germaine Holden DE 6-4 245 So. 53 Jim Kordas OG 6-5 271 So. 54 Justin Goheen LB 6-2 226 So. 54 Andrew Mims OT 6-2 270 Fr. 55 Oliver Gibson DT 6-3 275 Jr. 56 Huntley Bakich DE 6-2 217 So. 56 Steve Armbruster c 6-0 205 So. 57 Bernard Mannelly DT 6-4 270 Sr. 58 Jeremy Nau DE 6-4 234 So. 59 Lance Johnson c 6-1 277 Sr. 60 Adam Kane OL 6-3 238 Fr. 60 Ross Mihalko DE 6-1 215 So. 61 Tim Ruddy c 6-3 286 Jr. 62 Mike McCullough DT 6-3 274 Fr. 63 Jason Beckwith OG 6-2 238 Jr. 64 Steve Misetic OL 6-5 266 Fr. 65 Linds~ Knapp OT 6-6 282 Sr. 66 Todd orman OG 6-6 297 Sr. 67 Mark Zataveski OG 6-5 295 So. 68 Jeff Riney c 6-4 268 So. 69 David Quist DT 6-5 248 Fr. 70 Mike McGlinn OT 6-6 285 Jr. 71 Herbert Gibson OT 6-5 289 So. 72 Ryan Leahy OT 6-4 290 So. 73 Justin Hall OT 6-4 304 Sr. 74 Will Lyell OL 6-5 263 Fr. 75 Aaron Ta~or OG 6-4 299 Jr. 76 Jerem~ A ers DT 6-5 272 Fr. 77 Dusty eigler OL 6-6 240 Fr. 78 Jordan Halter OT 6-7 292 Sr. 79 Tyler Young OL 6-4 275 So. 80 Oscar McBride TE 6-5 251 Jr. 81 Rich Sauget TE 6-4 218 So. 82 William Pollard SE 6-4 226 Sr. 83 Mike Miller FL 5-7 157 So.
\ 83 Mark Holdener TE 6-2 215 So. 84 lrv Smith TE 6-3 253 Sr. 85 Robert Hughes TE 6-7 256 Jr. 86 Ben Foes DT 6-3 226 Fr. 86 Max Dieterle SE 5-11 170 So. 87 Lake Dawson FL 6-1 202 Jr. 88 Leon Wallace TE 6-3 268 Fr. 89 Karmeeleyah McGill DE 6-3 233 Sr. 89 John Ko~ris TE 6-4 227 Fr. 90 Brian Hamilton DT 6-3 275 Jr. 91 Anthony Jones DE 6-4 242 Fr. 92 John Taliaferro DT 6-4 261 So. 93 Paul Grasmanis DT 6-3 265 Fr. 94 Reggie Fleurima DT 6-3 262 So. 95 Junior Brkant DT 6-4 279 Sr. 96 Thomas noght DE 6-4 231 Fr. 97 Bryant Young DT 6-3 277 Jr. 98 Pete Chryplewicz TE 6-5 233 Fr. 99 Cliff Stroud DT 6-2 264 Fr. 
The ObserveriBrendan Regan 
When the Irish have the ball 
Probable starters in boldface. 
Irish offense 
TAILBACK «HHeaoot Brooks 
H.2ff,SR. 
4-Lee Becton 5·11, 190, SO. 
FULLBACK 1-Jtrome Bettis 5-11, 254, JR. 7·Dean Lytle 6-2, 240, JR. 34-Ray Zellars 5-11,218, so. 
GUARD &&·Todd Nonnan 
6-8,297, SR. 59·Lance Johnson 6-1,277 53-Jim 6·5, 271, 
TACKLE 73-Justin Hall 6-4, 304, SR. 72-Ryan Leahy
6-4, 290, so. . 
TIGHT EN.:> ........._ 84·1r1 Srvltll ~ 6-3,253,SR. 
80-0scar Mc8nde 
6-5, 251, JR. 
88-Leon Wallace 6·3, 268, FR. 
Stanford got gift on its last visit 
SPLIT END 87·Lake Dawson 
CORNERBACK 6·1, 202, JR. 4-Vaughn BryantTACKLE 
8-Ciint Johnson
65-Linclsay Knapp 
5·8, 180, JR.
H,217,SR. 
70-Mike McGlinn 
6-6, 285, JR. 
END

71-Herb Gibso' 
51-Eitevan Avila
6-5, 289, so. 

8-3, 285, SR. GUARD 
96-David Carder 75-Aaron Taylor 6·5, 235, so. 6-4, 299, JR. 
,
79-Tyler Young 
6-4, 251, so. 
' 
NOSE GUARD 72-Jason Fisk 8-4, ZIG, JR. 
, 78-Aaron Remblsz 
-•· 6·3, 260, SR. 
I ~INSIDE 
liNEBACKER 
05-Coy Gibbs 
8-0, 218, so. 
58-Dave Grable 
6-3, 225, so. 
INSIDE LINEBACKER 52·Toby No!Wood IS-O, 215, JR. 93-Mike Hall 6·2, 225, SO. 
STRONG SAFETY 16-Seyon Albert

END 
5-11, 195, SR.

&O·Tyrone Pamr 
38-Billy Wittman

6-4, ZiS, SR. 
5-11,190,SR.

61·Tyler Batson 
6-5,260, SR. OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 21-Ron George 1-2,221, SR. 85-VInce Otoupol 
CORNERBACK

6-3, 220, SR. 
f'I-Oarri•• Garaa 1-1~,111, SR. 10.HOR Reden 
6-3, 195, SR. 


By JIM VOGL 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Two years ago, the Notre 
Dame football team was riding 
high on a warm and sunny 
October 6. The Irish held the 
number-one ranking and pre­
pared to face the 1-3 Stanford 
Cardinal. 
Never in their worst night­
mare did they envision what 
would transpire that afternoon­
a heart-breaking 36-31 defeat 
that would cost them their spot 
atop the polls. 
Earlier that week, junior 
Raghib "Rocket" Ismail sat out 
practice with a painful thigh 
bruise he suffered three weeks 
previous in a win over Michi­
gan. 
Despite the disappointing ab­sence of their exciting re­turner/flanker. Irish fans could foresee little to worry about; it would take an epidemic to stop Notre Dame from extending their home win streak to 19. 
Actually. the Rocket's re­placements suffered a fatal dis­ease-known as fumble-itis. The bright sun, combined with 30 mile-per-hour gusting winds, played a part in three fumbles on Notre Dame punt-returns that resulted in 14 points for Stanford. 
The game's final play re­flected the fatefully frustrating afternoon for the Irish. With six seconds left, tight end Derek Brown turned and sprawled into the corner of the end zone after a pass lofted by Rick Mirer. But the ball fell off Brown's outstretched fingertips for an incompletion. 
"I don't know if I've ever been in a loss that was this difficult," said a dejected Lou Holtz later that day. "The three turnovers on punts were absolutely disastrous." 
Off to an early 7-0 lead in the first quarter, the Irish defense stopped the Cardinal and pre­pared to get the ball back. But, Ricky Watters botched the first of two punts on the game, as the ball sailed and hit him in the face mask, bouncing into the arms of Stanford's Tommy Vardell at the nine-yard line. 
On the next play, Cardinal tailback Glyn Milburn romped into the end zone to tie the score at 7-7. 

quarter, Holtz decided to drop 
back two returners, Watters 
and sophomore Adrian Jarrell. 
Paul Stonehouse's punt hovered 
half-way between the two, as 
Jarrell circled under the ball at 
midfield and let it ricochet off 
his hands and fall into enemy 
hands. 

Four plays later, the fullback 
Vardell scored the third of his 
four touchdowns on the day, 
trimming Notre Dame's lead to 
31-29 with 17 seconds left with 
a quarter of tantalizing football 
remaining. 

Stanford coach Dennis Green, a disciple of former San Francisco 49er and present Cardinal head coach Bill Walsh, designed an offense with many screens and short pass plays which quarterback Jason Palumbis executed to near perfection. Teaming up with six-foot-six Ed McCaffrey, Palumbis completed 26 of 34 for 256 yards against an outsized, sagging and confused Irish secondary. 
At that point. Lou Holtz's Irish had given up more than 35 points in only one game, when they defeated USC 38-37 on November 29, 1986, Holtz first year at Notre Dame. 
However, that afternoon turned out to be the second, as Stanford took the lead for good, 36-31, on another Vardell touchdown in the fourth quar­ter. 
Last year, an inspired Notre Dame squad knew better than to overlook the Cardinal. They flew to California with visions of Brown's desperate incompletion pounding in their minds, and resigned to pound their hosts. 
Lou Holtz opted for-rrno-holds barred offense. complete with a flea-flicker halfback pass, a no­back offensive set. and tried to send the fullback deep on a pass pattern. to go along with a traditionally solid ground game. 
The result was a resounding 42-26 Irish victory which qui­eted Notre Dame's screaming memories of the disappointing defeat in 1990. 
Jerome Bettis led the Irish at­tack with 179 yards rushing and four touchdowns. Tony Brooks added 122 yards on the ground, as the duo became the first two Irish backs to break 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Notre Dame vs. Stanford 
STEVE STENSTROM RON GEORGE GLYN MILBURN ESTEVAN AVILA 

Every titne the Irish 
• score a touchdown, the first 10 callers to say "Notre Dame Scored", Buy 
one pizza and get one FREE! 
page 6 
Stanford's Abrams adjusts to eleven-man college football 
By ED DONOVAN Stanford Daily Sports Writer 
Editor's Note: The Stanford Daily is the student newspaper of Stanford University. 
For freshman placekicker Eric Abrams, the world both at practice and in games is one of relative isolation. Only on the field for a few seconds at a time, his position requires a concentration and precision that can influence the outcome of a game dramatically. 
Abrams grew up playing soccer and kicked filed goals for fun during halftime of his games. As he grew older, his coaches saw that he had an exceptional foot for his age and encouraged him to try football. 
Abrams attended La Jolla Country Day, a small, private high school near San Diego that participated in an eight-man football league. From any other position, making the transition to major college football would have been nearly impossible. 
"For me it's the same," Abrams said of the change. "Kicking is one position where you're kind of isolated. All you need is a good snapper and holder, and we have that." 
In high school, Abrams demonstrated a range and consistency that is hard to find even in the collegiate ranks. He twice made 53-yard field goals and also set ~he national high school record for most extra points in a career. 
Unlike most positions, kickers aren't heavily recruited. Abrams expressed interest in Stanford by sending films of his kicks to the team. When it came time to make the choice, UCLA was the only hitch in his decision to attend Stanford. 
"At UCLA, you get more privileges as a player than you do here, " he said. "Plus I would have played closer to home." 
Abrams made the decision to go to Stanford largely because of its academic reputation. 
When this season began, Abrams was the backup behind junior Aaron Mills. After the team's first game against Texas A&M, in which Mills missed his lone field goal attempt, Abrams stepped in front of the Stanford Stadium crowd of 43,656 for the Oregon game, he was un­derstandably nervous. 
Kicking from the right hash mark, Abrams nailed a 29-yard field goal to put the Cardinal ahead, 3-0, with 4:38 remaining in the first quarter. 
"In my mind, there's no such thing as a chip shot. That first field goal was real important to me," Abrams said. "After that, I was as relaxed as could be." 
He finished the game with eight points; two field goals and two extra points. 
He appears to have the confidence that is so crucial for a placekicker. He articulates the philosophy of his craft with cold succinctness. "When you're kicking you're out there by yourself," he said, "it's 100 percent mental. If you don't miss in practice, you shouldn't miss in the games." 
This is not to say that Abrams is 


Photo Courtesy of Stanford Sports Information Eric Abrams replaced junior Aaron Mills, shown here, as Stanford's kicker after one game. 
perfect. The misses will inevitably come, as one did against Northwestern two weeks ago. He missed a 50-yarder on a play where the field goal unit was clearly rushed because of indecision over whether the offense should try for a first down. 
"I wasn't exactly set," Abrams said, "The clock was running down and I looked at it and got kind of unsettled." 
Even a missed field goal couldn't ruin the day, however, and the Cardinal won by a 35-24 count. After the game, Abrams walked out of the stadium with his parents, signed a couple of autographs and looked forward to his next chance to split the uprights in front of the Stanford crowd. 

The junior quarterback is ranked second in the Pac-10 in passing efficiency and third in total offense. He has thrown 19 career touchdown passes including four already this year. 
Senior outside linebacker has emerged as an All-American candidate. George leads Stanford and in among the best in the Pac-10 in sacks with seven and tackles for loss with 12. 
Senior halfback is also an .All­American as well as Heisman candidate. Milburn has rushed for 385 total yards in the first four games of the season. 
Senior defensive tackle has had an All-Pac 10 season so far this year. Avila is second on the team with four quarterback sacks and five tackles for a loss. 
.,.,
.. 
" 
•'.. 

Senior tight end is a quality player with excellent pass catching ability. Usually converts his average three receptions a game into first downs. 

NE\V EXTENDED HOURS 
~1 ...\\1ed ~ll:OOanl ... l:OOam Thur , 11:OOam ~ 2:00am Fri~Sat ... 11:OOan1 ... 4:00atn Sun...Noon ... 1:00am 
Friday, October 2, 1992 Notre Dame vs. Stanford page 7 
Griggs blocks out past 
Overcomes preseason injury to contribute 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Editor 
Last week the Notre Dame offense ran wild over Purdue, gaining 458 yards rushing. This assault included four touchdown runs of 20 yards or longer, but the Irish backfield was not the sole reason for Notre Dame's best rushing day since 1974. 
"The receivers have been playing outstanding football," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "They have been extremely unselfish. Their blocking effort has been exceptional the last few weeks." 
Starting flanker Ray Griggs, whose blocks keyed a 63-yard scoring run by Reggie Brooks and a 24-yard touchdown burst by Jerome Bettis, has played the primary part in the re­ceivers' effort. 
Though his blocking was commended by ESPN's Lee Corso on Saturday, the "little things" Griggs does to help the Irish offense usually do not get mentioned by most or appear in the box score. 
The senior from University Park, Ill., however, does not mind, as long as he is con­tributing. 
"We (the receivers) always talk about finding a way to contribute. You don't always have a chance to do it catching the football," Griggs explained. 
"On Saturday, because of the rain we weren't effective with the pass, but we were able to have an effect with our block­ing. When Reggie, Jerome or anyone scores, to contribute to it feels good." 
Griggs shares time at flanker with Adrian Jarrell, who started two games while Griggs nursed a sprained ankle earlier this season. The two are good friends both on and off the field, something they both use to their advantage. 
"We're always pushing each other to work harder." Griggs said. "We each want to see the other do their best. 
"When either one of us is in 

Griggs said of his first week back. week of practice. 
This hard work paid off. After Griggs made an impact im­a cameo appearance against mediately, catching three Michigan, Griggs was back with passes for 78 yards and a the first-team offense the touchdown against the Spar­following week. tans. 
"I wasn't expecting it, but we Now that he has overcome have a motto: you practice how the injury and is contributing you play. And I had a good weekly, Griggs feels that he is 
r---56¢-ott---i I 
t I I
'any CooltopperT"' 1 
: (Expires 1 0/30/92) : 
: rcant :1 
:Yogurt!:~
I I I I
with your choice of topping blended in 
: We put asmile on your taste1
and another scoop heaped on top! 
L_1§2ey_~~~D _R.£>~C! J 
G-GS  Rec. Yds.  Avg.  TO  Lg  
1989  9-0  1  7  7.0 0  7  
1990  9-0  3  69  23.0  0 44  
1991  12-3  5  66  13.2 0  17  
1992  3-2  4  94  23.5 .1  39  

Total 33-5 13 236 18.1 1 44 

there, the other is on the side­line rooting for him to do his best." 
Both Griggs and Jarrell have influenced the younger re­ceivers on the team and showed them that it takes a lot to make a complete receiver. 
"All I thought about in high school was running my patterns and catching the ball, but they have shown me what it takes," junior split end Lake Dawson noted. ''I'm now as block­conscious as (Notre Dame left guard) Aaron Taylor." 
A few weeks ago it looked as if the only way Griggs was going to influence anyone was from the sidelines. In preseason drills, he severely sprained an ankle, which was very slow in healing. 
"It was tough to see everyone practicing and progressing," Griggs said of the time he sat out. "To think that I was falling behind everyone was frustrat­ing. 
"I was real anxious to get back, and when I did I wanted to contribute immediately." 
Griggs did just that in the week before the Michigan game, in another one of those small, unnoticed ways-work­ing on the Irish scout team while testing the ankle. 
"I worked hard and I think I 

Ray Griggs celebrates his 39-yard touchdown reception versus
did a good job down there," 
Michigan State. The senior had three catches against the Spartans. 
where he wants to be in the Notre Dame offensive scheme. 
"After the ankle injury, I thought I might never get the chance to get back out there," Griggs said. "I'm glad that I got that chance. It's gratifying to be in the role I want to be in." 
S\r\'EE1'SPOT RACQUET SHOP Everything you need 
• 
•

In racquet sports. PIIDCIJ' Everything. W~on 

Edison 

301 E. l)Ayr HJ1.t\l) 
~Day~~ JIN.D.
258-4268 


r-----------,
4--14'' Large 1 Topping Pizzas 


$1995 
+Tax 

Additional toppings 95¢ each. 
~~::~~~;~~any ... 
L-------..-----..1 
~------.-.--...---., r-----------, ~-----------~ 
Late Night Special 
9 
p.m. ·close 

1~ 14" Large 1 Topping Pizza 
$5~.~ 
Additional toppings 95¢ each. Not valid with any .~ other coupon. ··----~-I 
L--------..----...1 
2--14'' Large 
Ch 
eese Pizzas 
$9~.~ 
Additional toppings 95¢ each. Not valid with any LM.~­other coupon. ~~-----1
L-----------..J 
ot 

Game Day Special 1~ 14" Large 1 Topping Pizza 


and Stix 
$8 76 
.~ 

Additional toppings 95¢ each. 
­Not valid with any .... Iother coupon. ~---------·-··
L-----------.J 





pages Notre Dame vs. Stanford Friday, October 2, 1992 
Notre Dame inspired Walsh to return 
By RICH KURZ was listening in to Holtz's press Associate Sports Editor conference this weekend, called in and good-naturally poked fun at Holtz for 
Four years ago, Bill Walsh seemed to doing commercials for golf products. make the perfect exit from the coaching It also sounds like a meeting of the ranks. He had just won his third Super Mutual Admiration Society. Bowl with the San Francisco 49ers, and "I've served, on occasion as a sort of 
was stepping down and letting one of his private counsel for Lou, and he with me./ assistant coaches have a shot with the Our last seating was talking about Niners. intercollegiate athletics, basically his A position as the number-one NFL wisdom relating to it, so we exchanged a 
analyst for NBC was his for the taking, couple of things," said Walsh. ..r 
and he seemed to enjoy the job in the "I spent time with Lou at the Olympics 
press box. Then NBC made a decision to this summer. I had dinner with Lou and 
broadcast all of Notre Dame's home his wife, so we're good friends. I have games, making Walsh the analyst on the great respect for him. 
Irish broadcasts as well. "Lou Holtz is one of those few college When he had the opportunity to spend coaches, in reality, that does manage the time with the college athletes, traveling game as the game progresses. Lou really
~ 
to their campuses while doing back­manages the game well." 
l i ground for the games, he discovered Holtz echoes Walsh's admiration. something-he missed coaching. "I have a lot of respect for him," Holtz It just so happened that there was a said. "I think Bill Walsh has done an perfect position waiting for him. Stanford excellent job with this football team. It's 
' University, which gave him his first on the rise." college head coaching spot in 1977, was Walsh's first game back on the looking to replace Dennis Green, who left sidelines wasn't a smooth one, as the to pursue an NFL head coaching position Cardinal fell to currently fifth-ranked with the Minnesota Vikings. In a matter Texas A&M, 10-7. Stanford, though, has of days, it was a done deal. been on the rise since then, and is now 
"I don't know if I'd have even thought ranked at number 18. Walsh has had to about returning to. coaching, in any make some adjustments, as far as sense had I not spent time at Notre dealing with the players and worrying Dame, but also at the opposing schools," about academics, but he seems to be said Walsh. doing fine. 
"So we visited Annapolis, which was 
very impressive, and Tennessee, and "There are still some areas I suffer in," Michigan State, and even Southern Cal," he said. "I almost unconsciously expect Walsh said. "So that, in itself, gave me an certain things and even talk to the team
flavor of the 49ers with Stanford." Notre Dame Stadium, the inevitable 
inspiration to return to college football like that, and then come around soon
But if there is any team in college speculation about what Irish 
because I began to appreciate the ath­after, (but it's) nothing of consequence,
football that Walsh knows something quarterback Rick Mirer would do in 
letes and the programs." nothing that anybody would notice
about, besides his own charges, it is Walsh's pass-oriented system was 
As might be expected with a legend except probably me." 
Stanford's opponent this weekend. Walsh rampant, and his comments about Mirer 
like Walsh, he brought an impressive It's apparent, though, that Walsh
studied Notre Dame last season, when he only fuel the "what-ifs." 
group of assistant coaches to Stanford enjoys coaching, an enjoyment that may
covered six Irish home games for NBC. "I think Rick is as fine an athlete as 
with him, including Terry Shea, assistant have been waning over his final years
But he doesn't think that gives him any has played that position. He has the 
head coach, offensive coordinator and with San Francisco. The college game
great advantage in preparing for the poise of Joe Montana, at this stage of his 
heir apparent when Walsh decides to provides some perks that aren't in the
game. life. He is an outstanding runner, very
step down. pro game. 
"We'd meet with (Irish coach) Lou quick, great open-field speed. He has a 
He also brought a group of former 
(Holtz) for, he says an hour, but really 30 great arm, a lot of poise. Each time he 
49ers-players who were used to a high "Their (the college athletes') natural
or 40 minutes at best, but he would give plays, he gets a little bit better. Would he 
level of success on the pro level. Tom enthusiasm for what they're doing, and
us the time, and over a period of weeks have gone early in the NFL draft? I 
Holmoe, Bill Ring, Mike Wilson, Guy their dedication to the program and to
became more and more comfortable. We would think he would have been the 
Benjamin and former All-Pro linebacker each other, and just a wholesome
were not a threat, as far to our broad­number-one pick, because he would 
Keena Turner joined Walsh's staff, atmosphere among the athletes. We have
casts, and he would exchange with us warrant that." 
though none has any previous coaching some problems here and there,
openly. When everyone would leave, Walsh doesn't hold back about his 
experience. naturally, because these guys are in the
we'd trade a remark in fondness and respect for Notre Dame. 
"What I attempted to do," explained growth years of their lives, but they don't 
friendship." said Walsh. "His (Holtz's) program is on the cutting
Walsh, "and I think successfully, is even approach what might be going on
"Last year I had a chance to talk to edge of college football," he said, adding 
attract some very bright, articulate, in the NFL.
both Rick Mirer and Jerome Bettis at that as an analyst for NBC, "no one was 
knowledgeable, aggressive young guys "The athletes are just as interested in
times, but I don't know how that will more positive about Notre Dame than I 
that will recruit very, very well, that have learning, and they take pride in it. And
affect the game aside from the fact that I was. We (Dick Enberg and Walsh) were 
playing history and the respect among working together, and all those kind of
can wave to them after the game is over. very impressed with Notre Dame." 
the college athletes and the potential things we would like to think football
I'll know where the locker room is, Tomorrow's games will be a study in 
college athletes." stands for educationally." 
which drinking fountain to use , but coaching contrasts, with Walsh matched 
But that doesn't necessarily mean that 
that's all." by Holtz on the opposing sidelines, men 
l 
Walsh is turning the Cardinal into the So far, Stanford has seemed to be the
Likewise, Holtz doesn't think Walsh considered among the top at their 
Stanford 49ers. perfect match for Bill Walsh, and at least
has gleaned any great secrets about Irish profession. Walsh, the Californian who 
"We don't remark much at all about in the short term, he has proved to be
football, just things anybody following practically invented the ball-control 
NFL football with our players," Walsh right for the Cardinal. Bringing along an
Notre Dame closely would pick up. passing game, and Holtz, who clearly
< 
said. "Occasionally something will be heir apparent and a group of young

"If you spend time with someone, reflects the running attack of his former
' 
said about someone's technique, but we coaches shows that Walsh is building for
you're going to learn some things," Holtz mentor, Woody Hayes. 
concentrate on the college level, and Stanford's future. If his record with a
said. Given their experience of working
most often refer to other college teams Walsh made no together over the past year, it should college team approaches his record with
secrets about his 
or players, so I can't say the 49ers have pro teams, he will prove to be a long­
feelings on at least one Notre Dame come as no surprise that the two are
been distinctly involved, or that there's a term success with the Cardinal as well.
player. Last season, with Walsh around friendly, to the extent that Walsh, who 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS (PLEASE, NO WAGERING) 
Each week during football season, The Observer sports staff, AI Lesar of the South Bend Tribune and a guest prognosticator predict the outcomes of the week's major college football games. Records are compiled as to how each 






Jim Vogl Jenny Marten David Kinney Mike Scrudato AI Lesar Rich Kurz Rolando de
person does against the spread. 
Assistant Sports Associate News Editor Sports Editor South Bend Associate AguiarHome teams are in CAPS. 
Editor Sports Editor Last week's 30-26-0 Tribune Sports Editor Associate 31-25-0 31-25-0 guest: 8-6-0 29-27-0 26-30-0 Sports Editor 21-35-0 
MIAMI 3 over Florida State Hurricanes Hurricanes Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Hurricanes Seminoles 

MICHIGAN 18 over Iowa Hawkeyes Wolverines Hawkeyes Wolverines Hawkeyes Wolverines Hawkeyes GA. TECH 2 over N.C. State Wolfpack Wolfpack Wolfpack Yellow Jackets Yellow Jackets Wolfpack Yellow Jackets 
Boston Coli. 2.5 over WEST VA. Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles Mountaineers Eagles Eagles 
Indiana 4 over MICHIGAN ST. Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers 
Ohio State 10 over WISCONSIN Badgers Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Badgers Badgers Badgers 
TEX. A&M 15.5 over Tex. Tech Aggies Aggies Red Raiders Red Raiders Aggies Aggies Aggies 
Syracuse 12.5 over L'VILLE Orangemen . Cardinals Orange men Orangemen Orange men Orangemen Orange men 
Penn State 14 over RUTGERS Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Scarlet Knights Scarlet Knights Nittany Lions Nittany Lions 
Tennessee 7 over LSU Vols Vols Vols Vols Vols Vols Vols 
ALABAMA 25 over S. Carolina Gamecocks Gamecocks Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Gamecocks Crimson Tide Crimson Tide 
WASHINGTON 13.5 over Usc Huskies Huskies Trojans Huskies Trojans Trojans Trojans 
Ucla 6.5 over ARIZONA Bruins Wildcats Bruins Bruins Bruins Bruins Bruins 
NOTRE DAME 12 over Stanford Irish Irish Irish Irish Cardinal Irish Cardinal 









