------------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


MONDAY APRIL 6 1992VOL. XXIV NO. 125 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Students sign petition for coed housing at ND 


By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI 
Associate News Editor 
Only three days into their term as student body president and vice president, Greg Butrus . and Molly O'Neill have had their first victory-an offer from the Library's Food and Drink Task Force to renegotiate plans for a no food and drink policy. 
"We didn't want to help im­plement what we didn't agree with," said Butrus, referring to the task force's attempt to get the student government's ad­vice in enforcing the no food and drink policy-a policy ini­tially decided upon by the task force without any student input. 
For Butrus and O'Neill, the victory came in the mail Friday when they received a letter from the task force asking the student government for its in­put in reexamining the possibil­ity of a no food or drink policy. 
In the meantime, though, Butrus and O'Neill have been working toward the fulfillment of one of their campaign promises-study days. According to Butrus, he and O'Neill have been working on the project from day one. 
"Bill Dailey (an executive offi­cer on Butrus and O'Neill's General Counsel) has been heading up that project," said Butrus, "right now it's on the agenda for the Academic Coun­cil and will be addressed at their next meeting April 22." 
While both Butrus and O'Neill expect another success in get­ting study days before final ex­ams, they are even more confi­dent about their plan for a campus-wide meal card. 
According to Butrus, the idea for a meal card that can be used at any campus eating establishment is only part of their plan. "The identification cards would have a magnetic strip on the back that could be marked to allow only autho­rized people to enter the dorms and other specified offices and buildings," he said. 
O'Neill added that Shannon Windsor, executive coordinator of the Special Projects Depart­ment, has been organizing the effort to meet with representa­tives of the various interests in­volved in such a switch. 
"I think the administration is realizing that our system (for meals and identification) is quickly being outdated and that we need some kind of a new card," said O'Neill. "Right now it's a matter of monitoring the need and finding out which de­partments want to be in­cluded," she added. 
As for other projects, Butrus and O'Neill have continued the work on date rape awareness which was begun by Joseph Blanco and David Florenzo. 
"We want to at least continue increasing the awareness of date rape on this campus," said Butrus. 
"When it comes down to it," 
see VICTORY/ page 4 


By BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 
In response to last semester's announcement of the adminis­tn.tion's intent to convert Pangborn Hall to a women's dormitory, approximately 2,000 students signed a petition last week that "urge[s] that coresidentiality be brought to Notre Dame through the con­version or construction of the next residence hall." 
The petition focuses on the University's decision to lift the cap on the number of women admitted to Notre Dame from 37 to 44 percent. This seven percent increase will entail about 140 more female stu­dents per year. Because of a need for increased female housing within the next few years, the petition calls on the University to add an option for coresidentiality when absorbing the increased number of women. 
The petition was initiated by the same group of students who originally sought to convert Pangborn to a co-ed, chemical free dormitory next year. However, since they saw little support from the administration for this change, they decided to change their focus, said group member James Gannon. 
Gannon said that several administrators and rectors have confirmed to him that there will be another residence hall built or converted within the few years. "We're saying, let's use this opportunity to create co-ed housing," said Gannon. 
The purposes of the petition are to "make people aware of the opportunity for co-ed hous­ing that we have now and to show the administration that there is strong support," ac­cording to Gannon. 
The petition, which was circu­lated in front of the dining halls last Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, urged that coresi­dential housing be brought to Notre Dame and asked if stu­dents would be willing to live in a coresidential dorm. Gannon said it received about 2,000 signatures and the majority of those people would choose to live in coresidential housing. 
The petition has been "very successful," said Gannon. "A lot of people really were inter­ested in it." 
The only negative response, he said, "has been people who think we're wasting our time." 
"I think that's ridiculous," he added. "If anyone's going to change anything around here, it's going to be the students." 
Gannon referred to the growing number of students' rights groups on campus in­cluding Adult Students for AduJt Privileges, Society for Initiation of Renaissance, and the group that staged last Tuesday's parietals demonstration. 
see COED/ page 4 

Lugar: U.S. must lessen defense 
By KELLY DERRICK 

News Writer 
United States support for dismantlement of nuclear weapons is essential to main­tain national security, said Richard Lugar (R-In) Sunday in his keynote address, "From Start to Finish? The Future of Nuclear Security Issues." 
"In the post cold war era, the role of the United States is to lead the world," said Lugar, 
U.S. Senator and senior mem­ber of the Senate Foreign Rela­tions Committee. The U.S. must continue to deter any advances that may be unforeseen and could challenge military rivalry by proliferation of nuclear weapons, he said. 
"The United States must con­tinue to hold at risk the capa­bilities and assets of the former Soviet Union," said Lugar. He said that Russia will remain the only power in the world who could threaten our national se­curity. 
Tactical weapons still remain housed in the Ukraine, accord­ing to Lugar. He said that there is still a danger that these weapons could cause conflict from the newly rising states. 
"While the U.S. can not be policemen of the world, righting every wrong, we will address selectively those wrongs that threaten our safety 
see SECURITY I page 4 

J 
~ 
t 
page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Is there any value in ser­vice? 
I had the opportunity to participate in the Center for Social Concerns' trip to Appalachia over spring 
break.  Following  are  
reflections  of  my  
experience:  



How does one describe j 
the feeling that overcomes MIKE HOBBES 
them when they are Advertising 
toiling away at a job and __M_a_n_a.:::g_e_r__ 
those that they are helping don't even lift a finger to offer the simplest form of assistance? How can one maintain a sense of worth for their service while no one is there to support them? How can one understand a lifestyle that they were not brought up in and can only observe from the outside, where no information is offered? If we are informed about a people and their condition, which results from some activity that we may or may not condone or comprehend, how can we offer sympathy or even empathy to these people when they chose to adhere to or abide by such mores? 
I can offer no answers that will remedy the situation. I can not even offer any valid theories that account for a single aspect of the questions posed. I can only answer for myself most of the time, much less that of others some of the time. Even then, it is still done with great difficulty. 
I am sure that everyone at one point or another has called into question their raison d'etre, whether in life as a whole or in an isolated incident. The only individual difference being their means of verification for the involvement or investment of time. I can't say that everyone chooses to do things for reasons similar to mine, but I would propose that everyone conceivably decides to take that step towards the unknown out of a feeling of ignorance. Not ignorance in a derogatory sense, but ignorance as a lack of knowledge and an inquisitive desire to comprehend something that would otherwise remain foreign to them. 
From my experience, I developed a greater appreciation for my ability to help others, without question as to their beliefs and motivations. I cultivated a sense of meaning in otherwise toilsome activities that seemingly exuded no measurable benefits or rewards. I, like so many before me, once again found worth in doing for others what they would not or could not do for themselves. 
There is no measurement stick that cal­culates the direct amount of satisfaction derived from these actions, only a feeling of the ability to put aside personal desires for the common good of others. In so doing, the group, of which I was a member, came closer in understanding and in mind as to our presence and purpose for our journey. 
I do not know that I can any better de­scribe my experience in words, for words are so limited in their capacity to express meaning and emotion. For me, words can seem so trivial when compared to the realm of meaning that is displayed in heart-filled actions. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

A
~ ~ [[] 0 w 8 
SHOWERS RAIN T..STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE 
. :·~ ..:·:·:-:·:······ ··:·:·: .•:·:·:· :-:-:·:·.· 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
'E.T.' Host weds actress Sellecca 
• BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -"Entertainment Tonight" host John Tesh and actress Connie Sellecca exchanged wedding vows before 250 friends and relatives at a sunset ceremony. The couple met in Palm Springs in April 1991 and were engaged at Thanksgiving. The newlyweds will live in Beverly Hills. It's the second marriage for both. Miss Sellecca, a television actress who starred in the series "The Greatest American Hero" and "Hotel," appeared this season in CBS' "P.S.I. Luv U." Tesh also is host of an NBC morning program, "One on One with John Tesh." 

Mother Teresa to defend killer 
• OAKLAND, Calif. -Mother Teresa will ask Gov. Pete Wilson to spare a convicted killer scheduled to go to the gas chamber this month, a peace activist said Sunday. Jesuit seminarian John Dear said the 81-year-old Roman Catholic nun would call Wilson Monday and urge him to cancel the planned April 21 execution of Robert Alton Harris for the 1978 murders of two San Diego teenagers.The execution would be California's first since 1967. Dear said she would ask that Harris's sentence be commuted to life in prison. Mother Teresa, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1980 for her care of the world's poor, met Harris during a visit to San Quentin Prison in 



OF INTEREST 
• 
The Diocese of Samoa Program is looking for students interested in teaching on a South Seas Island. The program wants to recruit ten to fifteen volunteers for next year. Ann Cusick will be on campus to give applica­tions and more information at the Hesburgh Library con­course from 10 a.m. -noon or the Center for Social Con­cerns from 1p.m.-5 p.m on April 7. 

• 
Academic concentration information will be given concerning Peace Studies in Room 103 C Hesburgh Center at 4:30 p.m.; Film and Cultural Studies in the O'Shaughnessy Loft at 5:15 p.m.; and Gender Studies in Room 119 O'Shaughnessy at 7:30p.m. 

• 
An effective resume workshop will take place in the Foster Room of LaFortune from 6:30-7:30 tonight. The workshop will cover how to write a powerful resume 


MARKET UPDATE 

52 34 56 35 73 48 
66 49 67 45 
57 50 56 35 
1986. Last March, she appealed to then-Gov. George Deukmejian on Harris' behalf. The governor has said he would consider granting clemency. 



CAMPUS 

Buildin~s lose their power 

• NOTA DAME -Last night approximately four South Quad buildings lost their power for more than an hour. According to the Power Plant Supervisor, a boiler malfunctioned, resulting in a loss of generating capacity. The Law School and South Dining Hall, Grace Hall, as well as three or four other buildings, lost either half or all of their power. The boiler was repaired and power was restored around 11 p.m. 

SMC students join pro-choice march . 
• NOTRE DAME -Three Saint Mary's students were part of a pro-choice march in Washington, D.C. over the weekend. According to Jennifer Rasmussen, a sophomore at Saint Mary's, the three went with a bus load from the National Organization for Women representatives from South Bend. She added that seven times as many people came to the pro-choice march than for a pro-life march earlier in the year in Washington, D.C. The theme of the march was "We won't go back." According to Rasmussen, the theme referred to women's rights and their reluctance to go back to a time when they did not have the choice. 
which accurately depicts your qualifications and methods of focusing resumes for specific jobs. 
• 
JPW committee 1993 will have an informational meeting at 7:30 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. Applications are available at LaFortune information desk and are due by April 8. 

• 
The Alumni Association is now accepting job applications for Reunion '92 (June 4-7) and Alumni Fam­ily Hall (June 1-August 10) summer jobs. Applications available in Room 201, Main Building. 

• 
SMC students interested in writing for the Observer should contact Amy Greenwald (news) at 277-4871; Nicole McGrath (sports) at 284-5415; Mara Divis (accent) at 284-5535, or Amy Bennett (assistant) at 284-5183. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1896: The first modern Olympic games formally opened in Athens, Greece. 

• 
In 1909: American explorer Robert Edwin Peary became the first person to lead an expedition to the North Pole. 

• 
In 1917: Congress approved a declaration of war against Germany. 

•In 
1987: Los Angeles Dodgers executive AI Campanis told ABC's "Nightline" that blacks "may not have some of the necessities" to hold managerial jobs in major-league baseball. 

• 
In 1991: Iraq reluctantly agreed to accept United Nations conditions for ending the Persian Gulf War. 


Today's Staff: 
Business: Andy Runkle Susan Marx 
Viewpoint: 
Cheryl Moser 
J. Brian Stalter 
Accent: 
Chrissy Prask 
Sports: 
Jim Vogl 


News: 
Emily Hage Meredith McCullough 
Production: 
Lisa Bourdon Melissa Cusack 
Systems: 
Charlie Chaplin Paul Froning 
Lab Tech: 
Garr Schwartz 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.

I 
I 
~------------------­
Monday, April 6, 1992 



Yeltsin vows to fight to retain full authority 


MOSCOW (AP) -President Boris Yeltsin said Sunday that he will fight efforts in Russia's parliament to trim his powers and will use his full authority to press ahead with painful eco­nomic reforms. 
"Only one way can exist today -the continuation of radical reforms," he told a gathering of supporters. 
His comments came on the eve of a crucial session of the Congress of People's Deputies that will debate a new constitu­tion to replace the political sys­tem left by the Communists. Parliament leaders are demanding that Yeltsin relinquish some powers and ease the hardship caused by his market reforms. 
Barely four months after pre­siding over the death of the So­viet Union, Yeltsin could face a political firestorm during the session of the 1,048-member body, which convenes Monday in the Grand Kremlin Palace. 
But a key Yeltsin aide, State Secretary Gennady Burbulis, said pro-reform groups agreed tentatively Sunday to form a parliamentary bloc to defend the president. He said the bloc included a majority of lawmak­ers, but that could not be con­firmed independently. 
In return, Yeltsin agreed to consult with the bloc in making government appointments and formulating policy. That is the closest he has come to joining a political organization since quitting the Communist Party in 1990. 
Acknowledging criticism from lawmakers, Yeltsin said he would continue to shuffle his Cabinet and to make "partial corrections" in his reforms, which sent prices soaring. At the same time, farm and factory production has fallen. 
Opponents from the right and left are demanding changes in the reforms and the repeal of 
Boris Yeltsin 

the special powers Congress granted him to rule by decree. 
More than 2,000 Yeltsin crit­ics demonstrated Sunday in Manezh Square next to the Kremlin. One speaker de­nounced Yeltsin and former So­viet President Mikhail Gor­bachev, saying: "All that was possible to sell has been sold, all that was possible to betray has been betrayed." 
Outside the concert hall where Yeltsin spoke, protesters formed a "corridor of shame" leading to the entrance, calling women "whores" and men "Judases" or "traitors" as they entered. 
A group of young men tried to block some people from the hall. At least two fist fights broke out, but no serious in­juries were reported. Police sat in buses nearby and did not in­terfere in the demonstration. 
In Russia, the largest of the former Soviet republics, indus­trial production is falling and inflation is raging. The ruble's value, briefly stabilized last month, has plunged again. Yeltsin's lifting of price controls on Jan. 2 made most goods unaffordable to many citizens. 
Yeltsin reshuffled his Cabinet last week, demoting four prominent reformers. However, all retain important govern­ment posts, and it appears the shake-up may only be cosmetic, 11n 11ttempt to appease critics. 
l.Jfcoming Events 
MONDAY. APRIL 6 

12:00 ~ture REPRESENTATIVE LES ASPIN 
(D-WI), Chairman, Armed Ser-rices Committee "CHALLENGES FOR U.S. SECURITY POLICY IN THE POST-COLD WAR ERA" CCE Auditoriwn 


1:30 p.m. Panel Discussion -niE COLLAPSE OF THE SOVIET UNION: IMPLICATIONS FOR U.S. SECUim'Y POLICVW Panelists: PROF. JERRY HOUGH, Director of 
tbe Ceater for East-West Trade, Duke Uoiversity 

JO HUSBANDS, Director, Committee on International Security, National Academy of Scieaces 
GENERAL ED ROWNY, former 

Arms Control Advisor to Presideats Ronald 
Reqan and GeorJe Bush, Chief Negotiator 
for tbe START Talks CCE Auditoriwn Everyone Welcome 

INSTITUTE FOR 
-~~INTERNATIONAL 





111111~;!~o;~?!~ 

The Observer page 3 
The Observer/Sean Farnan 

Enjoying the outdoors 
Onlookers admire the rollerblading skillls of their fellow Notre Dame students. 

Mcintosh outlines ecology debate 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT partment. News Writer Mcintosh said that humans affect ecology, "the total rela­
In the debate concerning tionships of organisms and the ecology and technology, ecology environment," through technol­is often portrayed as the victim ogy, which he defined as "the and technology as the assailant, collection of art by which hu­according to Robert Mcintosh, mans manipulate their envi­professor emeritus in Notre ronment." Dame's Biological Sciences De-"The effects of humans have 
Move up to •MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS• 
• 
2 Bedroom Luxury Apartments (4 Apartments per Building) 

• 
Locked Entry with Intercom System 

• 
Full size Washer and Dryer for each Apartment 

• 
Pool and Clubhouse facilities 

• 
6 minutes from Campus 

• 
Flexible lease terms 

• 
Bring in this Ad for $50 off 1st months rent For further infonnation call 277-3731 Located at Cleveland and Bendix 



become paramount," Mcintosh said, since humans are the ones to develop technology, and the human population is steadily increasing. 
According to Mcintosh, "Unbridled technology debases the quality of the environment." It is responsible for such envi­ronmental problems as air and water pollution, deforestation, and global warming. 
Many ecologists, Mcintosh said, are consequently in favor of abandoning high-level tech­nology and returning to a sim­pler way of life. He added, how­ever, that such a solution "would require half of the world's population to disappear to be effective." 
Instead of abandoning tech­nology, Mcintosh proposed that we should learn to use it in a way that would not threaten the environment. "We need ap­propriate distribution and ef­fective use of technology," he said. 
In the United States, however, policy-makers are resisting the call for limits on technology. In addition, according to Mcin­tosh, they are reluctant to par­ticipate in the international conference on environmental problems in Rio de Janeiro this summer. 
Mcintosh emphasized the need for environmental aware­ness and action from the Amer­ican public in general, and from Notre Dame students in particular. "If the problems are not resolved," he said, "the consequences could be catastrophic." 


page 4 

The Observer/ Adriana Rodriguez 

A musical moment 
Karen Buranskas, Associate Professor of Music, plays the cello at The Notre Dame String Trio Faculty Recital on Sunday at 2 p.m. at the Annenberg Auditorium. 
NEW YOHK (AP} -Billy Gra­ham, the first evangelist to preach in North Korea, says the communist republic still is a closed society, but one that may be ready to reach out to the world. 
"I think there's going to be some changes," Graham said Sunday in a telephone interview from Hong Kong. "They've lost the support of the Soviet Union. I got the impression they're reaching out toward other na­tions for some friend." 
Graham, who had just com­pleted an unprecedented five­day Christian crusade through 


Coed 
continued from page 1 
"There's a serious undercur­rent. Students and faculty are finally getting annoyed at hav­ing no say in the policies which are dictated to them," said Gannon. 
However, he added that the petition may not show the true support of coresidentiality on campus. Because the group was permitted to display the petition at only one entrance of North Dining Hall, many stu­dents were unaware of it, he said. Also, many students con­fused this {letition with the co­ed, chemical free Pangborn is­sue, he added. 
The petition will be presented to the administration as soon as all the results are tallied, said Gannon. 
North Korea, said he was as­tounded by how the country is shut off from the rest of the world. 
"I've never seen anything like it," he said. "You feel like you're in another world." 
North Koreans receive no in­formation of the outside world through newspapers, radio, television or even telephone communications, he said. 
But Graham said he found many things to praise about the country of more than 20 million people. 
"There is no crime, no unem­ployment. It is a very rich coun-
ADVENTURE 
SKILL 

EXCITEMENT 
RED CROSS COURSE FOU A POOL SESSIONS 1 DAY EXCURSION 
CLASS DATES APRIL 7, 9, 14, 21 6:00PM 8:30PM ROLFS AQUATIC CENTER 
REGISTER AT RECSPORTS 
The Observer 



Victory 
continued from page 1 
said O'Neill "the responsibility is still with the individual, and that's not something student government can cure." But Butrus added that "by creating awareness, we can cut down on the possibility of the environ­ment or situation being created where that (date rape) would occur." 
Another area in which Butrus and O'Neill will attempt to make progress is in student in­put for policies affecting stu­dents. 
"There is a realistic problem with student apathy," said Butrus, "but we were elected as representatives of the students to give our input where every student can't be heard by the administration." 
"We definitely are trying to get more input from students," added O'Neill. "We're encouraging students to come up to the office and talk to us or stop by our rooms." 
As for input from the inside, Butrus and O'Neill will have a 


Security 
continued from page 1 
or the safety of our friends," he said. 
Lugar and Senator Sam Nunn (D-Ga) are leading an effort to provide financial assistance to the former Soviet Union for co­operation in dismantling and 

try, with gold and other miner­als," he said. 
"The capital (Pyongyang) is 

one of the most beautiful in the 1.;.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;~~;;:
world. It is very clean." 
He said the people don't be­lieve in God, but in "Juche," an ideology based on self-reliance that was developed by North Korean President Kim Il Sung to blend spirituality with Marxism. 
But the two churches where he preached -one Catholic and one Protestant -each were filled with about 400 people who "certainly knew those hymns," Graham said. 
Attention-Student Summer Storage 
What NEW Mini Warehouse and Storage Faculty REFUSED to charge Deposits, Administrative Fees, and UNFAIR Higher Student Rental Fees Last Season. 
•Security 
System •Resident Manager 

•Spacious 
and Conveniently Located 


(219) 271-1105 We are expanding just for you! CALL NOW for your Reservation!! 
5 X 10's -$30 1990 Prices Special Student Rate 10 X 10 10 X 20 $45 Your Choice! 
Monday, April 6, 1992 


··-""""" 

Greg Butrus and Molly O'Neill 
48-member cabinet to offer suggestions. 
"The more people we have in­volved," said O'Neill, " the more access we will have to ideas." 
Butrus added that now is the most opportune time for stu­dents to get involved. "We've been encouraging students to write letters offering sugges­tions to the various committees of the Colloquy 2000," accord­ing to Butrus. "Through the Colloquy, every aspect of the University will be addressed. And based on the success of the PACE committee, it is almost certain changes will be made," he said. 
Chief among the appointees to the cabinet are: Teri Nieder­stadt, student body treasurer; 
destroying their nuclear weapons. 
The money provided will help convert the former Soviet de­fense industry to civilian pro­duction and will also help fund transporting, storing, and safeguarding weapons before they are destroyed, Lugar said. 
Failure to provide aid would be more costly in terms of na­tional security than the price of providing immediate aid, ac­cording to Lugar. 
If you see news happening call The Observer at 239-5303 and let us know. 
I!0901N01ANATOl.lROAO 
* St.Miry's 
.. 
MlniWirehOUSI 
aniiSiorage 
GRAPE ROAD 
STfW:n 
II II 
Mike Griffin, Chief of Staff; Megan Sullivan, Executive Co­ordinator of the Intellectual Life Department; and Mark Woodmansee, executive coordi­nator of the Legal Department. 
Also in the cabinet will be Eric Happel, executive coordi­nator of the Public Relations Department; Ellen Hujarski, executive coordinator of the Student Life Department with commissioners covering women's concerns, campus im­provements, university services and social concerns; Shannon Windsor, heading the special projects department; Jim Kirk, in charge of student govern­ment reports; and Jen Blanchet at the head of the Club Coordi­nation Council. 
He said that not only is de­stroying these remaining tacti­cal nuclear weapons of impor­tance to U.S. security, but also of utmost importance to world peace. 
"I feel that the U.S. executive and legislative branches are fully capable in 1992 of con­structing national and interna­tional" security strategies," said Lugar. "Much has been accom­plished, but much needs to be done." 

Monday, April 6, 1992 The Observer pages· 



Close to 500,000 demonstrate for abortion rights 
WASHINGTON (AP) -An es­timated half million abortion­rights demonstrators marched on the nation's capital Sunday to show political muscle that they hoped would sway politi­cians and a conservative Supreme Court. 
"The more we learned about the law at Harvard, the more we realize how fragile these rights are," said Julie Doyle, a Harvard Law School student. 
"We're going to turn out of office people who don't support us," Patricia Ireland, president of the National Organization for Women, said at a morning rally. 
It was the first abortions rights march on the capital in three years, and Ireland called it "the largest ever of any kind in this nation's capital." 
U.S. Park Police estimated the size of the crowd at 500,000. 
As it does with all major demonstrations on the Mall, park police photographed the crowd from a helicopter and then superimposed a grid over the composite photo to estimate the crowd. The estimate is made under a formula derived from calculating the number of people who would normally fit into a certain number of square feet. 
NOW had said it expected between 300,000 and 700,000 people to take part. 
"We do count and there arB an awful lot of us and they should watch out," said Isabel Glass of New York. 
Democratic presidential can­didate Jerry Brown sat quietly for about an hour, but left without speaking to the main crowd. He did stand on a fold­ing chair on the back of the main stage to address a small crowd with a bullhorn. 

A NOW spokeswoman, who refused to be identified by name, said the group decided not to allow any presidential candidate to speak. 
Bill Clinton, who like Brown took time out from campaign­ing for the New York Demo­cratic primary to attend the assembly, marched in the rally surrounded by supporters who chanted, "pro-choice, pro-Clin­ton." 
Both sides in the abortion is­sue see this year as a possible turning point for legalized abortion in America. The 
..--------------------------.Supreme Court is scheduled to 
Dominos Pizza Presents 

L-------------------------------------------------~ 

~~~ w-<ti\ 

~ RULES 'V~~ 
For every 

"U()VM W 412~" 

pizza order your Dorm will receive $1.00 
The Floor of the Dorm with the most orders will win a 

"FREE" DOMINO'S PIZZA PARTY 

NOTRE DAME STUDENTS CALL: 


271-0300 

SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS CALL: 



'DII 
mm. 
289-0033 ()()12M WAl2§ 
Large 15 ". Pizza 
one toppmg 

S7 22requ~ 

Valid at participating stores only. Not valid w~h any other offer. Prices 
may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas 
lim~ed to ensure sale driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 
Cash value 1{20c. OUI drivers are not penalized lor tale deliveries. 
1992 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
•LJMITED TIME ONL y• 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid wlh any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Cash value 1(20f. Our drivers are not penaUzed for late deliveries. 
1992 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
•LIMITED TIME ONL y• 

hear arguments April 22 on a Pennsylvania case that imposes restrictions on abortions. 
People on both sides of the is­sue believe the court will use that case to undermine or even overturn Roe vs. Wade, the 1973 decision that made abor­tion legal. 
As the march began, skies were clear, temperatures were brisk and strong winds swept Washington, which also was marking the start of its annual cherry blossom festivities. 
Many of the marchers were clad in white and were from out of town, having spent the night or at least the early hours of the morning crammed into buses for the trip to Washing­ton. 
As they passed the White House, some demonstrators hurled onto the lawn tennis balls bearing the message "Are you ready to be a mother?" Uniformed Secret Service offi­cers stood inside the iron fence impassively watching the bright green balls arc through the air. 
President Bush, who has made telephone speeches to anti-abortion rallies, yvas at the 
Brown, Clinton march with activists to muster pro-abortion support 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Rival Democrats Bill Clinton and Jerry Brown, trying to shore up support among abortion rights supporters, broke from frenetic campaigning in New York Sun­day to join a pro-choice march in Washington. 
Neither presidential hopeful was speaking to the throng, but each wanted to show unity with supporters participating in the march. 
''I'm here expressing my solidarity with the women on this march," said Brown. "Our whole cause is Democracy, the economy, the right of people to decide their own destiny and nothing is more fundamental to that freedom than a woman controlling her own body and her own destiny." 
Clinton also joined the march, surrounded by supporters who chanted, "pro-choice, pro­Clinton." 
Earlier, in a televised debate in New York, Clinton was grilled on an ad he ran, then pulled off the air, on seemingly inconsistent statements Brown has made on abortion over the years. 
Brown, after working with Mother Teresa in Calcutta, told a nun that he believed it was "crazy" that so many unborn children were being killed through abortions each year. 
Clinton said the ad, which quoted Brown as saying he was against abortion, was not misleading, but "it made the wrong point." Clinton said he was not trying to question Brown's personal views, because "I think most people who are pro-choice have reservations about abortion." 
But the Arkansas governor charged that Brown had tried to hold up a pro-choice platform at a California Democratic convention, an accusation Brown denied. 
"Maybe what we ought to do in this campaign is reaffirm where we stand on it. I am pro­choice," Clinton said. 
But he has been questioned about his commitment, too, because Arkansas does not help poor women who want abortions and Clinton sup­ported a law that requires minors to notify their parents before getting an abortion. 
"I opposed the vote of the people to ban public funding," he .said. 
Clinton has defended the notification law, saying there should be someone around to help young girls who have abortions. He also notes that a judicial bypass provision allows a girl could get around having to tell a relative in the case of incest or abuse. 
presidential retreat in Camp said Sen. Barbara Mikulski, D­David, Md. Md. 
Anti-abortion demonstrators Geraldine Ferraro, the 1984 planned a peaceful rally at the Democratic vice presidential West Front of the Capitol, just a candidate who's running for her couple of blocks from where the party's nomination for the afternoon pro-choice event was Senate from New York said , being staged. "We're damn mad.-For the 
Dozens of politicians partici­record, this is a pro-choice na­pated in the march and rally. tion." 
"We want to make sure that The march also drew a num­our right to choose remains in ber of big-name entertainers, the families and out of politics," including Peter, Paul and Mary. 

Sophomore Class Cubs Trip 
vs. St. Louis • 


April 12th 
Buy your Tickets for $15 Monday -Thursday at the Sophomore Class Office ... 
they will go fast! 
t' 
page 6 The Observer 

Monday, April 6, 1992 

Drug control office tries to get increased funds 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Office of National Drug Control Policy has waged intense. be­hind-the-scenes battles to force six recalcitrant Cabinet agen­cies to seek $115.3 million in additional funds for the war on drugs, according to documents obtained by The Associated Press. 
The office's real power lies in its ability to expose agencies seeking what it believes is too little money to carry out the president's anti-drug strategy. 
But revealing such problems required a breach of the admin­istration's normal reluctance to tell outsiders -that is, Congress -about family squabbles. 
Nevertheless, the drug control policy office threatened to do just that late last year after less drastic measures failed to persuade s.ix departments to increase their anti-drug budget proposals for fiscal 1993. 
After the warning, the six in­creased their total budget re­quests by $115.3 million, most of that for drug demand reduc­tion programs, according to the documents sent to the Senate Judiciary and House Gov­ernment Operations committees by the office of ONDCP director Bob Martinez. 
The Bush administration has asked Congress for $12.7 billion to pay for federal anti-drug efforts in fiscal 1993. 
Thus far, the office has not used its ultimate weapon: send­ing letters signed by Martinez to a department head declaring the department's drug-war funding inadequate. 
Instead, it has fired warning shots. 
"We've threatened by sending over drafts of unsigned letters that would decertify agencies, and that got an answer," Bruce Carnes, ONDCP's director of planning, budget and adminis­tration, told a Senate panel last week. "There we've got definite big time power." 
Because the congressional committees requested the drafts as well as Martinez's signed letters certifying every department's final budget re­quest as adequate, the threats to expose the reluctant drug warriors to Congress became, unintentionally, reality. 
The documents show the sec­retaries of Education, Health and Human Services, Treasury, Housing and Urban Develop­ment, Veterans Affairs and La­bor received draft letters. 
After receiving the letter, the Education Department boosted its proposal for Drug-Free Schools and Communities grants by $62.5 million. 

MILWAUKEE (AP)-A gov­ornment investigation shows regulations governing travel on military airplanes are so vague that high-level federal officials use them virtually without re­strktion at a cost of $150 mil­lion a year, The Milwaukee Journal reported Sunday. 
The newspaper quoted a draft report by the General Ac­counting Ofliee, the investigat­ing arm of Congress, as saying the planes based at Andrews Air Force Base, Md., average more than 75 flights a month. 
"The policies and their im­plementation by the Air Force and the Department of Defense are inadP-quate and do not pro­vide assurance that the wing is being used appropriately and an adequate deterrent to abuse," the report was quoted as saying. 
The investigation has been under way for about a year at the request of Rep. Frank Hor­ton of New York, senior Repub­lican on the House Government Operations Committee. 
The Journal said it obtained parts of the draft report, which has not been made public. 
The study covered airplanes of the Air Force's 89th Military Airlift Wing, which had 22 fixed-wing aircraft as of De­cember. The wing provides travel for the president, vice president, members of Congress, cabinet secretaries, judges and high-level military officers. 
Secretary of State James Baker III announced last week that he would start using com­mercial flights for personal travel after the Journal re­ported on another GAO study 
Correction 
The Observer incorrectly identified the speaker in a photograph on page 4 of Friday's edition. The person was Anne Blackwell, division director of policy, planning and development for the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs. The Observer regrets the error. 
Applications for Freshman Orientation Committee Available now in Student Government Office Deadline: Friday, April 10 5:00pm Questions? Call Chris x 3445  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Finance Club Members C!Juiirt:rJJ:g® Tf1fii[JJ) April 23 & 24 $20I person includes hotel and breakfast reimbursement for gas and parking ![interested contact one ofthe following by Wednesday April 8th: Amy Listerrnan x4900 Suzanne Juster x4899 Justin Farley x2038 AI Pisa x1179 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  


WITH 

Get 
Smart. 
College students can get great haircuts from profes­sional stylists at everyday low prices. And you never need an appointment. Stop in at our convenient mall 
location. At MasterCuts we trim prices, not quality.  
~-MasterCuts  -~  ~-MasterUJts  -l  
I 1 120°/o Off 20°/o Off :Any Haircut : : Any Perm  1 I  
J  

MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 277-3770 
c: Regts CCM'poraiKW"' 1992 
showing he made 11 private trips on military aircraft at a cost to taxpayers of $371,599. 
The GAO was quoted as say­ing its estimate of the $150 million annual cost included pay for about 1,600 military and civilian personnel, aircraft maintenance and fuel, and other operating expenses. It said it did not include deprecia­tion, new aircraft acquisition or construction costs for facilities. 
The agency said that in most cases the use of the VIP wing aircraft was considerably more expensive than commercial travel. For instance, it would cost $4,752 for 12 government officials to fly coach to Los An­geles, but the cost on a military 12-passenger jet would be about $50,626. 

The report said members of Congress made about 16 per­cent of the trips, and 58 percent of the congressional trips were overseas. It said spouses flew on about 40 percent of the foreign trips, and most were authorized to travel free. 
It said 24 percent of executive branch trips and three percent of those by military officers were to destinations outside the country. It also said that about 10 percent of the trips were taken by foreign dignitaries. 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) --Snipers fired on peace demonstrators and Serb mili­tants assaulted a police academy as violence surged Sunday in Bosnia-Hercegovina. 
The attacks came the day be­fore the European Community was to consider recognizing the republic's independence, the main issue inspiring the vio­lence. 
The Tanjug news agency also reported the resignation Sun­day of Bosnia's Premier Jure Pelivan, an ethnic Croat. No reason was ·given. 
At least eight people were killed and 30 wounded Sunday in-the Bosnian capital, Sara­jevo, said Sabina Cabaravdic, an editor at Radio Sarajevo. 
Leaders of the republic's three main communities -­Croats, Serbs and Muslims -­agreed to call for a cease-fire. They and the federal military commander for Bosnia ap­peared on television as a com­mentator read their appeal. 
• 


The Observer page 7Monday, April 6, 1992 
Possible EC recognition ignites Bosnia violence 
Shooting was reported in sev­eral parts of Sarajevo, which grew increasingly isolated. Tanj ug said its airport was closed, and Radio Sarajevo re­ported that Muslim forces blew up the main road to Belgrade about seven miles from Sara­jevo. Local residents said the army took over security· at the airport. 
Sarajevo TV showed demon­strators scattering in front of parliament as snipers opened fire from the nearby Holiday Inn hotel, used as a command center by Serb militants. But people later regrouped and continued marching through the city center. Ten people were wounded, said Tanjug, based in Belgrade, Serbia. 
Rival militias --Serbs on one side and Croats and Muslims on the other --battled in two ar­eas on the edge of Sarajevo that had been used as athletes' villages during the 1984 Olympics, witnesses and media reports said. 
The Observer/Sean FIWI1Ill1

Under repair 
The pool at Rockne Memorial is temporarily unavailable to interested swimmers _whil_e it unde_rgoes some 
repair work. Rolfs Aquatic Center in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center IS still operational. 
•••••••••••s••••••••••••• 
~IONDAY AND TUESDAY APRIL 13A~ll 14

tVA TRENT ARTERBERRY 

8:10p.m. Washington Hall 
Tickets: $8--~otre Dame :md Saint ~lary's Students $10---Gencral Admission $~hildren (12 and under) Group rates available. LaFortune Center Flox Ofticc 

~lime Trent Arterberry moves through a series of contemporary scenes with a unique athletic grace and presence. His show ranges from hilarious descriptive mime to inrerpreti1·e dance and includes improvisational sketches with audience participation. Arterberry began studying mime in the '70s with such masters as Marcel Marceau. 
Your Paper
Deserves 
Our Paper. 
'XIhen you've worked night and day on something as 
important as your thesis, you want it to look as smart as it 
sounds. From high quality paper to impressive binding, 
Kinkols has everything you need --at aprice guaranteed 
to make the grade with your budget. 'XIhen it comes to making agreat impression, your paper definitely deserves 
the paper at Kink01S.
r--15%_0ff__ 
All Thesis Work 

Bring this coopon to any participating Kinko's and receive a 15% discoont on all thesis copies and bindings. Discoont not good the 
COpM center 
in combination with any other J 
offers or discounts. Ole coopon We Can Help You Make per customer, please. A Great Impression Open 24 Hours A Day Seven Days A Week 
18187 State Rd. 23 • 271-0398 
()Kioo's is proud to offer recycled paper . 

campaigns against each other. parliamentary elections, in 
Tehran said the air strike was which he is trying to crush op­in retaliation for a raid by ponents of moves to improve guerrillas of Mu' ahedeen Khal relations with the West. 
For

Hertz 
Do-lt-Yourself 
PENSKE 
Moves Local • one way 
Truck Rental 

10 11. Vans 14ft. Vans 18ft. Vans 24ft. Vans 1·2 Rooms 2-3 Rooms 4-5 Rooms 6-8 Rooms 
Low Rates • Free Unlimited Mileage on One Way Rentals 
• Air Cond11ioning and Au1oma11c Transm1ss1on • New. Clean. Top-Mamtamed Models 
• Buill-In Loadmg Ramps • 24-Hour Emergency Road Serv1ce. 7 Days a Week 
• Full Line of Moving Accessories Including: Tow Dollies. Hand Trucks. Pads and Cartons • Free Movmg GUide • Protec11on Plans • Most Ma1or Credtl Cards Accepted 
Elkhart 
2220 Toledo Rd. (Hwy. 20 East) 
293-5681 
"Ask for your 10% student discount" 
For One Way Reservations. Call 1-800-222-0277 

Penske Truck leasrng Co 1991 
The air attack was the most serious clash since March 1991, when units of Iran's Revolutionary Guards crossed the border during Kurdish and Shiite Muslim rebellions and clashed with Iraqi troops and their allies. 
Mujahedeen Khalq, the largest exiled Iranian opposi­tion force, said one of its fight­ers was killed and several others wounded when its base near Khalis, 30 miles inside Iraq and 40 miles from Bagh­dad, was showered with cluster bombs on Sunday morning. It denied attacking the Iranian villages. 
Ali Reza Jafarazadeh, a Mu­jahedeen spokesman in Bagh­dad, said, "The real reason for today's attack was the tremen­dous political crisis facing the Tehran regime inside Iran over the parliamentary elections." He spoke by telephone with The Associated Press in Nicosia. 
Iraq said eight U.S.-built F-4 Phantom jets "heavily pounded" the Iranian base and that Iraqi troops shot down one warplane and captured the two crewmen. 
The rebels said 12 F-4s at­tacked in five waves and claimed they shot down the jet. 
The official Iraqi News Agency said President Saddam Hussein met with his military commanders after the attack. It did not give details of the discussions. 
Baghdad Radio said Iraq's Foreign Ministry sent a letter of protest to U.N. Secretary­General Boutros Boutros-Ghali. His predecessor, Javier Perez de Cuellar, angered the Iraqis last year by blaming Iraq for the Iran-Iraq war. 

NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) --Ira­nian warplanes bombed an Ira­nian rebel base near Baghdad 
• on Sunday, the first air strike by 
•' Iran on Iraqi territory since a : 1988 cease-fire halted their 
• 1 eight-year war. 
•, Iraq claimed its forces shot down one of eight Iranian fighter-bombers and captured the two-man crew. State-run Baghdad radio, monitored in Cyprus, called the raid an act of "blatant and unjustified ag­gression" and warned Iran of "grave consequences." Rebel supporters in Europe responded by attacking Iranian embassies in at least six coun­tries. 
The air raid marked a sharp deterioration in relations be­tween Iran and Iraq, which have not signed a peace treaty to formally end their 1980-88 war and have been waging in­creasingly strident propaganda 
AP 
or People's Holy Warriors, on two villages in western Iran on Saturday. It also blamed the Mujahedeen for recent attacks on Iranian diplomats in Baghdad. 
But the raid may have been an attempt by Iranian President Hashemi Rafsanjani to shore up support five days before 
r----------....... 
page 8 Monday, April 6, 1992 
........-.....------_.,...------~--~-~-~~-----~~-~-----------~~~-~--~ 
Business 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Unemnluv•11•e::• it rate holds 
• WASl-IINGTON-The nation's unemployment rate held at 7.3 percent in March, the worst in nearly seven years, underscoring the halting pace of the economic recovery. 
The Labor Department said Friday the number of unemployed people stood at 9.2 million, also unchanged from February. That's 2.5 million more than when the economic downturn began in July 1990. 
The job market has failed to rebound so far despite signs of life elsewhere in the economy. including increast~s in rt>tail sales, factory orders and housing construetion. 
OP~ falls short of goals 
Domestic vehicle sales rise 
• DETROIT-Sales of North Ameri can-made vehicles rose 3.1 percent in late March, led by the continued surge in light truck buying. 
For all of March. total domestic and imported vehicles sales were up 2.5 percent, also led by light trucks, aceording to figures from the nine automakers who release sales data. 
For the year to date, total industry sales were up 1.2 percent compared with recession-weakened sales in the first quarter of 1991. 
Problems the focus of trade talks 
• WASHINGTON -U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills said discussions next week on a North American free trade pact would focus on a few trouble areas and wouldn't guess on how dose bargainers were to agreement. 
Hills is scheduled to meet Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday in Montreal with Canadian Trade Minister Michael Wilson and Mexican Commerce Secretary Jaime Serra Puche. 
Those discussions will be the first among the three top trade negotiators since Feb. 10. Since then, lower level negotiators have been meeting off and on. 
L----------------------~ 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Latin America made impressive eco­nomic gains last year after the "lost decade" of the 1980s, the Inter­American Development Bank reported Sunday. 
Total income rose 2.7 percent in 1991, compared with a decline of 
0.8 percent in 1989, it said. 
"Argentina, Chile, Mexico, Panama and Venezuela ... were especially successful in establishing growth," the report said. 
The bank study found Venezuela showed the best growth, estimating that per capita income in the country grew $194 over the 1990 level of $3,038. By contrast, per capita income in the United States in 1990 was about $22,000. 
However, the economic im­provement didn't stop an attempted 1992 coup by the Venezuelan army against the elected government. The army drew strength from the failure of the nation's oil wealth to reach the individual citizen. 
During the 1980s,. population rose faster than economic growth. 
Panel addresses continuation of affirmative action 
By JOHN CONNORTON 
Business Writer 
The future of affirmative ac­tion was addressed by a panel of experts on Thursday in a discussion emphasizing the im­portance of continuing affirma­tive action. 
The panel consisted of Annie BlackwHII of the U.S. Depart­ment of Labor, David Dow of the Xerox Corporation. and Garrett Heilly of the General Electric Company. 
Blackwell, the first to speak, emphasized the importance of affirmative action in redrtlssing "the major inequities in em­ployment of minorities and women. Without such a pro­gram, these inequalities would have existed for a much longer time, said Blackwell. 
"We feel that affirmative ac­tion has seen alot of progress," Blackwell continued. "We have eliminated the segregated working position and have cre­ated greater access to entry­level positions for minorities." 
The Department of Labor has been very active in pursuing cases of discrimination. From 1968-1990, most cases pursued by the department have been racial in origin, with sex dis­crimination right behind, said Blackwell. 
Disabilities are also an issue of discrimination. "Persons with back problems, epilepsy, or vision impairments" have been 
Retail pioneer Walton dies of cancer 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) -Sam Walton, the feisty business pioneer who never lost touch with his Arkansas roots as he built Wal­Mart into the.nation's largest retail chain, died Sunday. He was 74. 
He underwent treatment for leukemia in the early 1980s and was diagnosed with bone cancer in 1990. The cause of death wasn't immediately disclosed, said Wal­Mart spokeswoman Jane Arend. 
Walton was a shrewd busi­nessman who used high-tech management and lots of cheer­leading to sell employees on a philosophy of efficiency and service to the customer. 
That philosophy enabled Wal­Mart, which began with a single store in Rogers, Ark., in 1962, to ring up $43.89 billion in 1991 sales and dethrone Sears, Roebuck and Co. as the nation's largest retailer early in 1991. 
It also made Samuel Moore Walton one of the richest people in the United States. In October 1991, Forbes magazine placed him and his four children as Nos. 3 to 7 on its list of the wealthiest Americans, with a net worth of $4.4 billion each. 
Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton, a Democratic presidential candidate, called Walton a charitable man. 
"Hillary and I treasured Sam Walton's friendship and we will miss him very much," Clinton said. "He was ... one of the greatest citizens in the history of the state of Arkansas." 
Walton died about 8 a.m. at the University of Arkansas Medical Sciences Hospital, where he had been more than a week, Wal-Mart officials said. 
Born March 29, 1918, in Kingfisher, Okla., he attended the University of Missouri, receiving a bachelor's degree in economics in 1940. He went to work as a management trainee at J.C. Penney Co., then served in the Army from 1942 to 1945. 
After the war, Walton opened a Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Ark. He moved it to Bentonville, Ark., in 1950 and renamed it Walton's 5&10. Walton and his sometime partner, brother James L. "Bud" Walton, eventually operated 15 Ben Franklin stores. 
Walton opened the first Wal-Mart Discount City store in 1962. By 1969, there were 18 stores, but the company began growing explosively in the 1980s, sometimes adding hundreds of new stores a year, most of them in small towns. 

Latin America grows after decade of decline 
And while population continues to rise, the average individual income rose in 1991 because income increased faster than population. 
The decline in total and per capita income continued in Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica and Brazil, Latin America's largest country. 
The bank said Brazil's total income was about the same in 1991 as the year before, but population growth of about 3 million people meant that the average Brazilian's income ­$2,169 in 1990-continued to decliae. 
"Despite the improvement in economic growth, average per capita output in the region now stands at the level reached a decade and a half ago," the bank said. 
"Average per capita output" ­the amount of goods and services the average citizen produces -is considered the same as average individual income. 
The Inter-American Development 

at a disadvantage, Blackwell 
said. 

Dow opened his discussion by 
agreeing with Blackwell that 
"affirmative action is critical for 
the '90s." 

He emphasized that the workforce needs to reflect the demographics of the country if the company wants to be suc­cessful and competitive in the marketplace. "It is to our ad­vantage to give everyone an op­portunity to grow with the company," Dow told the audi­ence. 
He explained that by the year 2000 the demographics of new workforce entrants will have radically changed. Females will make up approximately 42 per­cent of the new entrants into the marketplace. White males will make up only 15 percent compared to 13 percent immi­grant males and 8 percent non­white males, according to statistics released by the Hud­son Institute. 
"If a company cannot attract 
~--····· 
that diversity into its workplace, its finished," concluded Dow. The Observer/Pat McHugh 
Reilly stressed that affirma­Anne Blackwell, division director of Policy, Planning, and tive action is "certainly a neces­development, office of federal contract compliance programs at the sary part of doing business." If U.S. Department of Labor speaks at the third annual public policy 
the United States is to remain 
competitive in the world mar­workplace according to the people. I truly fear the semantic ket, it must make use of all its demographics of the United damage done to affirmative resources, he said. States. action," Reilly concluded. 
"Private business action is 
"However, people hear affir­essential to attract minorites mative action and they think The Hesburgh Program in and females," Reilly explained. quotas," he continued. "I think Public Service sponsored the New programs must be devel­affirmative action semantically colloquium discussing the fu­oped in order to balance the has been wounded by a lot of ture of affirmative action. 
Bank and the World Bank are the leading sources of development loans to Latin America, lending the area a total of more than $10.5 billion last year. 
Lawrence Summers, vice president of the World Bank and its top economist, calculates that 12 Latin American countries ­Argentina, Chile, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela, Bolivia, the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras, Jamaica and Panama ­produced less in 1989 than they did in 1965. 
Summers, writing in the March issue of "Finance and Development," a quarterly put out by his bank and the International Monetary Fund, cited war as a major reason the area's countries have failed to develop. 
Other reasons, he said, included large government defieits, policies that restrict private enterprise and too little investment in schools, health care and farming. 
Pact to allow more U.S. paper trade 
WASHINGTON {AP) -U.S. and Japanese negotiators reached agreement Sunday on removing barriers that have blocked sales of foreign paper products in the Japanese market. 
U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills, who announced the agreement, said it would widen sales by American companies of paper and paperboard products in a huge Japanese market estimated to total $27 billion annually. 
"This agreement is good for our industry and workers, good for the Japanese consumer and good for our global trading system," Hi11s said in a statement. 
"For too long, the globally competitive U.S. paper industry has been thwarted in its efforts to make inroads into the Japanese market," she said. 
The American Paper Institute also welcomed the pact. Irene Meister, an official of the trade association, called it a "major achievement." 
U.S. paper companies have complained for years about being prevented from competing on an equal footing in Japan. 

---~------------~-~--------­
Viewpoint 
Monday, April 6, 1992 page 9 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor ............•..... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor .•......... ,.Michael Scrudato Production Manager .•....... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager ............•. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor..Anna Marie Tabo r Controller ..•..................... David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
How does alcohol affect important areas in your life? 
Dear Editor: 
I am currently revising an al­cohol information manual for new students on this campus. I was trying to determine what these new students would want to know about alcohol issues at Notre Dame. And it dawned on me that maybe students want to hear from other students. Maybe not from an administra­tor's point of view. 
Help me help new students by sharing your encounters, good and bad, with alcohol. Points of views of particular interest in­clude the relationship between alcohol and: 
1 
) self-esteem 

2 
) academics 

3) 
sports performance 

4) 
body image 

5) 
health 

6 
) relationships 

7) 
vocational success 

8 
) unwanted encounters 

9) 
any other issues. 


Please send your response to the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education/ 1 Mezzanine Level/LaFortune Student Center/Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
Mark A. Pogue Office of Alcohol and Drug Education Apri13, 1992 


Viewpoint. P.O. Box Q Notre Dame. IN 46556 

DOONESBURY 
Students encouraged to save energy 
Dear Editor: 
Energy. Our modern world would not survive without a constant flow of energy from the power plants, run by fossil fuels, that provide electricity for homes, businesses, universities, and hospitals. As a nation comprising 5 percent of the world's population, we use 25 percent of its known fossil fuels. Unfortunately, until our sources of these fossil fuels, especially oil, are threatened by OPEC or Saddam Hussein, we take them for granted. 
But even when we realize ex­actly how addicted we, as a na­tion, are to cheap fossil fuels, our only solution to the problem is to try to think of ways to get more. We do not consider ways to change American wastefulness nor do we seek al­ternative sources of energy. 
Soon after the Persian Gulf war, fought in part to regain our threatened supply of for­eign oil, President George Bush revealed an "energy policy" that included no strategies to conserve energy or to increase research of renewable energy sources, but suggested that we open the fragile ecosystems of the Alaskan National Wildlife Refuge to oil exploration where enough oil to last us only 30 years at most might have been found. 
In fact, all of our sources of fossil fuels are rapidly running out. Although estimates vary, it seems that we have only 300 years of coal and 70 years left of oil in all known sites in the world at the current rates of consumption. 
"So what?" you may be thinking, if you've even read this far. "He's just another nutty tree hugger and besides, there's not a whole lot I can do about it, right?" Although I have hugged a tree or two, our national energy policy still con­cerns every one of us at Notre Dame because when those greedy old men in Washington are gone and replaced with a new set and all our fossil fuels are getting rare and expensive without new, renewable sources of energy, we wi,ll be the ones who will pay dearly. 
A good first step is to harass your congresspeople, especially since a lot of them will be boot licking for your votes, anyway. But perhaps a better thing to do about our national and global energy situation would be to begin selfconsciously saving energy, especially electricity. If we form energy-saving habits now, it will" probably save money in the real world when we actually have to start paying bills. 
To encourage the student body to save electricity, Notre Dame Students for Environmental Action is spon­soring a dorm energy competi­tion during the month of April. The dorm that saves the most electricity during the month will have $500 of trees donated to a campus landscaping project in their name, with a plaque and all, and they will also receive the much-coveted Green Cup award. 
SEA will determine the winner when the Notre Dame power plant reads the dorm electricity meters at the end of April. We will compare the electricity used by each dorm for the month of April with the electricity used by that dorm during April 1991. The dormitory that achieves the greatest percentage decrease in electricity consumption will be declared the winner. 
Little things that individuals can do to save electricity can potentially amount to a lot. Some simple and easy ideas that won't hurt include: 
-Shut off any lights, TV' s, stereos, etc. upon leaving your room even for a little while. 
-Drip dry your laundry in­stead of using the electric dry­ers. Your roommates won't mind at all. 
-Don't use your hair dryers and curling irons and all that stuff so much. 
-Shut off the lights to the bathrooms and the dorm study lounges if you're the last one to leave. It can get ridiculous if they stay on 24 hours daily. 
The point in starting this competition· is so that we, the future leaders of this world, will acquire habits that will save energy and money throughout a lifetime and not merely for the month of April. It is important that we change our usual short­term thinking about energy use and other environmental concerns and consider the impacts our behavior will have upon the world of our future. 
Consistent efforts to reduce overly wasteful energy con­sumption will not only help our fossil fuel supply last longer, but will reduce the water and air pollution, including the greenhouse gases that are causing global warming. You have nothing to lose. Give it a shot, Notre Dame. Your planet will love you for it. 
George Smith St. Edward's Hall March 31, 1992 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'You know life is really sad when you start dancing to a Burger King commercial.' 
Lisa Walbridge Chairperson Board of NO Social Life 
' 

Whad'ya say? submit it: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint
page 10 Monday, April 6, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
I guess the statement on our graduation ticket request forms sums up Notre Dame's attitude towards seniors and our commencement exercises. "Tickets are a privilege not a right," the pleasant little note reminds us. Gee, what was I thinking when I complained that I am only guaranteed three tiekets. 
I should have realized that the tuition myself and all of my classmates paid over the past four years did not entitle us to any amount of respect. And I guess the choice of our gradua­tion speaker only reinforces the point that our administration believes that the students are here to serve the Administra­tion and not the other way around. 
We, the sesquicentennial class of the Notre Dame, who have spent four years of our life liv­ing, learning, and growing un­der the watchful eye of the Golden Dome are being treated like three year olds again. Our input was ignored and now we are forced to watch a weekend originally intended for our par­ents and families, turn into a stop on the Bush campaign trail. 
The issue of ticket allotment and commencement speaker goes to the very heart of what Notre Dame so often has be­trayed itself as being-a pater­nalistic business that breath­lessly attempts to inflate its own reputation through association with famous organizations and people. 
In light of our treatment, two 
First, who is commencement 
weekend for? And second, does 
Notre Dame want itself used by 
a politician running for political 
office? 

I had believed that graduation weekend would be for my whole family. I hoped that they could all come and share the weekend with me, like we had done for my brother's graduation from Colgate two years ago. His graduation was a festive time, one in which we all shared. However, in the name of practicality, Notre Dame holds their graduation in the Thunderdome, guaranteeing only three tickets to each grad­uating senior, with the potential of a fourth if there should be extra. 
Indoor exercises are under­standable on a rainy day, but why don't we use the stadium which would accommodate all of the families that want to come. I have been told that the House that Rockne built can be used for only one purpose, and not even graduations can be given an exemption. The finals of interhall football can play in the stadium, but graduation can not. I guess the Notre Dame family applies only when it is convenient. 
So now we get only three tick­ets. For some this is a sad re­striction on a celebration many had looked forward to. But we must realize that though we are students at Notre Dame we have no input in anything that goes on. Remember "tickets are a privilege not a right." 
And if this slap in the face is not bad enough, Notre Dame our u­
ation speaker. Once again, we, 
the tuition paying senior class, 
are given no voice as to who we 
may want. There are many is­
sues that arise out of this insult. 
First, in 1981, when President Ronald Reagan spoke at the commencement, seniors were told in May that, due to security precautions, each student would get at most two, but usually only one ticket to the graduation. Will this be a re­peat performance? If so, will I be forced to split up my Notre Dame family and give my one ticket to the parent who wins the coin toss? Is even the President of the United States that important? 
Notre Dame may believe that it is an honor to have the President of the United States speak, but do the students? This family oriented weekend will turn into a media and secu­rity avalanche, while the point an e on year and Notre Dame is allowing itself to get used by a politician who is pur­posely coming to Notre Dame to campaign, not only for the Indiana vote, but for the Catholic vote. 
Many people look to our University as the paradigm of Catholicism in the United States and will see our action as an endorsement of one candidate over another. 
We are prostituting ourselves in an attempt to further our reputation. Is this the last lesson Notre Dame wants us to take out into the rest of our lives? 
I am equally against any can­didate for any position speaking at my graduation. Some may argue that it is the office of the President of the United States that is honoring our school. Well if this is the rationale for the Administration's actions, it is a weak one. However, since I have no ability to stop what those who work under the Golden Dome have already begun, I will try to at least alter it with a suggestion. 
If George Bush is coming here to honor us with his title and is actually not coming her to tell us how he won the Cold War and killed 150,000 people in Desert Storm, then I suggest his speech be given without any press access. This is not ridicu­lous. I worked on a campaign two years ago that had a fund raiser which Dan Quayle spoke at, and at which we barred the press from covering. 
Notre Dame determines who has access to our graduation and they can refuse the vora­cious press from covering this event. The press will also take up valuable room that could be used for our families. If the Administration believes that the graduation is for the students, then there is no need to have the press. 
I am of course not addressing the specific issue of whether or not a man who made deals with Manuel Noriega; was involved in the Iran-Contra Scandal; dealt with China shortly after the Tiannemen square mas­sacre; led a racist campaign in 1988; refuses to clean the envi­ronment, and a litany of other things exemplifies the sesqui­centennial themes of Belief, Enquiry, and Community. 
Notre Dame rhissed a golden opportunity to prove that it ac­tually values its students and teachers by not having the win­ner of the student government Best Teacher of the Year be our speaker. This could be an in­centive to all faculty members to strive for better teaching skills and would allow the stu­dents to have a voice in the commencement ceremony. Imagine if someone like Fr. Michael Himes were to deliver the address, the speech would be both interesting and funny. Well, maybe next year. 
Alas, though, Notre Dame has chosen their speaker and dic­tated their terms to their grad­uating seniors who they have molded into the leaders of to­morrow by consistently refusing them a say in the decisions of today. 
Terry Coyne 
Off-Campus 
March 31, 1992 


Homeless person should be invited to speak with Bush 
Dear Editor: 
When I think of a commence­ment speaker I think of an indi­vidual who can provide me with some insight on what the future will bring. I think of an individ­ual who has experienced real life, both good and bad, has learned from it and who can now offer me some advice on how to approach it's many dif­ferent aspects. 
I think also of an individual who can offer me their opinion on what holds true value in life. and on what I should really be concerned with when I leave school to enter into the "real world." 
I was very impressed with the announcement of President Bush as the 1992 commence­ment speaker. I am sure that the University went to great lengths to attain this speaker and they should be comple­mented for their efforts. An in­dividual in the position of pres­ident of our nation will un­doubtedly be able to offer us all some insight and relate to us, in his experience, what we can expect in our future lives, and I will be anxious to hear this. 
But I am also looking for something more. I believe that it would not only be beneficial to us, but that in a way it is our responsibility to hear a different perspective on what the future will bring. I believe that we need to hear the other side of the story, the story of an indi­vidual who has also experi­enced real life, but who has come out of this experience with a very different view of our society and what we can expect from it. 
My suggestion is that we invite one of the homeless persons from the South Bend commu­nity to be a guest at our com­mencement and to speak to us about their perspective on life. By so doing we will be given the opportunity to hear from an individual for whom the system did not work. An individual who came across obstacles in life but did not have the fortunate opportunity to have others as­sist them in moving beyond these. 

We will hear from an individ­ual who can give us a different perspective on the true value of things and what we should re­ally be concerned with in our lives. And hopefully we will also be able to hear about what needs to be changed in our so­ciety in order to clos.e the gap between these two drastically different perspectives of life. 
I am presuming that this sug­gestion of mine might receive some negative response and could be seen as an insult to ei­ther the University, President Bush, or to the students them­selves. 
To these responses I offer the following: the University would show not only it's openness and awareness of the many prob­lems in our society, but it would also be praised for it's com­mitment to offering it's students true preparation for the future and a realistic perspective on life; President Bush also would be able to demonstrate his care and concern for the problem of homelessness in our society and by sharing the stage he would show us all that he is truly committed to serving his citizens; and finally, as stated, the Class of 1992 would be given perhaps (but hopefully not) its one chance to really hear some differing perspec­tives on the reality of life and the opportunity to show our re­spect and concern for our neighbors. 
This is the opportunity to look forward to our future with an understanding of the many dif­ferent turns it can take and with the knowledge that we are part of a community that truly prospers only when all of its members are accounted for. 
I hope that the Administration will seriously consider this re­quest and I also ask for my fel­low classmates to voice their opinion concerning this issue. 
Aneel L. Chablani Off-Campus March 30, 1992 


Viewpoint
Monday, April6, 1992 page 11 
Notre Dame allowing itself to be used By inviting Bush to speak, 
Dear Editor: not inform the rest of the Notre typical campaign drivel spewed It seems that almost four Dame community on the real forth by all the major 
ND makes an endorsement 
years later, Notre Dame has not ticket distribution times. Again, · candidates? learned its lesson. from those distant windows on Maybe we should consider Dear Editor: The commencement address 
Back in the fall of 1988, I was the third floor of the Golden ourselves lucky for having the · Yes, yes, yes, it's an honor to brings to conclusion our expe­excited that Vice President Dome, the Administration qui­"education President" (who have President Bush speak at rience as Notre Dame students. George Bush was coming to etly nodded its head. slashes aid to higher education) graduation this year, but why As a community of believers, 
Notre Dame to speak. I was told All in all, it was obvious that speak at a school that saves its did we invite him? To teach a these words should encourage that Bush was to speak on some Notre Dame was used by the scarce financial aid for football last-ditch course in civics? To us to see our radical depen­sobering topic that vice Bush campaign to further its players and ROTC students . thrill our parents with an ad­dence upon God, to see our­presidents like to speak about. own goals at the University's It is eerily frightening that a dress on foreign or domestic selves as God's instruments in 
What I remember from that expense. For the first time at candidate who is criticized for policy? To have one of the great the world, to give witness to fateful autumn day was an Notre Dame, I was honestly being "out of touch with the orators holding public office Christ in our struggle for jus­unabashed campaign rally with ashamed to be a student here. American people" is going to be impart some pieces of wisdom? tice, to be merciful as God has an audience deliberately Three and a half years later, the University's 147th gradua­I suggest that it is for a been merciful, and to be signs packed with proBush zealots. we are making the same mis­tion speaker. After all, don't we different reason. of hope in a world that desper­
Back in '88, the Administra­take. While my ideology differs undergrads always claim that It is not my intention to dis­ately needs it. We might forget tion, in a feeble attempt to act from Mr. Bush, I really wouldn't the Administration is out of cuss the relative successes and the words of the address, but, if neutrally on the issue, refused have minded if he spoke here in touch with the student body? failures of the Bush they are consistent with what to let the University band play a non-election year. Don't others claim that Notre Administration, or even to we have heard and seen at at Bush's speech. The Bush University commencements Dame students are out of touch challenge President Bush's Notre Dame, maybe we will do 
campaign countered by bring­are important events, and, with the "real world?" ability to deliver a significant it. ing in some band from a nearby since Bush is obviously a very So as my fellow graduates sit message to the graduates. And, At root, what is at issue for me school. riling up the crowd with important person in this world, there in the ACC, on the verge I do believe that President Bush is this: What are we saying by that rousing election-type music I would have accepted my fate. of their future as complacent will refrain from political pan­thechoices that we as a 
heard at campaign rallies. Of After all, Notre Dame is a members of this great democ­dering as much as possible (he University continue to make? It course, the Administration said special place where Catholics racy, wondering if Bill Clinton will not bring the Ball State takes courage to choose not to nothing. can emulate Bush's WASP played for Duke or Indiana, or University marching band, as invite a candidate, particularly Secondly, the Notre Dame lifestyle and not feel guilty. if a tax credit is like a course he did at his last "lecture" on the sitting president, in his or chapter of the college However, to invite Mr. Bush to credit, I will be standing there, this campus). her election year. It takes Republicans, embodying the speak here in an election year holding my sheepskin, and once However, the University stakes courage to emphasize under­
same "fair-play" tactics of their would be a disgrace to the sup­again be very, very ashamed for something of what it is in this graduate education, consider­post-graduate mentors, pur­posed "independence" of the being a part of Notre Dame. selection. And, like it or not, ing the examples of other lead­posely gave their fellow young University. Are we that stupid to Jeff Jotz there is, implicit in the se­ing universities. It takes Republicans first dibs on the think that Bush wouldn't turn Off-campus lection, an endorsement, not courage to be a Catholic tickets for the speech and did his speech into a barrage of the March 30, 1992 necessarily for a particular University. And sometimes we candidate, but of a set of val­seem short that courage. ues. This decision reeks of the Christopher W. Cox
Bush's record will reflect poorly on ND 
value it places in power and Moreau Seminary Dear Editor: Perhaps those who invited tration shuns the impoverished, prestige. March 31, 1992 
I am extremely disappointed Bush to Notre Dame felt that while singing the praises of in the selection of George Bush killing tens of thousands of Iraqi capital gains tax cuts. as the commencement speaker. civilians over oil exemplified the I fail to see how these Although it is prestigious to Catholic nature of this "accomplishments" are consis­have the President of the United University and the man who led tent with the Christian way of States address the graduating us into this war would serve as life Notre Dame attempts to seniors and it will undoubtedly a good role model for the teach its students. bring loads of great press to our "Notre Dame Family," as it Bush is sure to use his Notre "National Catholic Research heads off to become business Dame visit as a stepping stone Institution," it is important to leaders, scientists and politi­to re-election. It saddens me to keep in mind what President cians. I hope this is not the know that this University sup­Bush stands for and how this case. ports Bush's campaign, in spite reflects upon the University. In Bush's twelve years of ex­of his disregard for the dignity 
Four years ago, as then Vice ecutive power, our national debt of human life, which Catholics President Bush campaigned for and defense spending have profess to hold sacred. I hope the Presidency, he promised us soared to record highs. The rich that I will not be alone in ex­a "kinder, gentler America." have gotten richer, while the pressing my dismay. This image brought us the poor find it harder to get by Molly Crowe invasion of Panama and the with each passing day. Walsh Hall Persian Gulf war. Meanwhile, the Bush adminis-March 30, 1992 

Students asked to reflect What is purpose of ND education? 
Dear Editor: of all found knowledge and graduates serving Jesus or
about abortion this week 
Recently articles have been learning..." mammon? written debating if Notre Dame The condition required for Some Christian friends fromDear Editor: never be a positive solution for is primarily secular or Christian entrance in these schools was my school days agree with meDuring the course of the women, for men, for families, in nature. The specific question usually pr-oficiency in the that only 5 or 10 percent of our
1991-92 academic year, the and, most of all, for unborn 
has been whether restrictions Hebrew, Greek and Latin lan­classmates survived ND with aND/SMC Right to Life Group has children. 
on academic freedom are guages. If prospective students living personal faith in Jesus
attempted to create an 
restrictions on the pursuit of acquired this knowledge, even Christ and His Word; secular awareness on both campuses of Our goals are always founded 
truth. This particular question at the early age of 14 or 15, humanistic thought and teach­the issue of abortion. Our at­upon the sanctity of life, and, betrays a secular or at least an they could be admitted. This ers (among other things) had 
tempts have at times met with for the week of April 6-10, we heretical Christian mentality. was because the primary destroyed or prevented
success, at other times criti­want an awareness on this 
The good news of the activity in these colleges was Christian faith from growing incism, and, still more often than campus that will question the Scriptures is that truth and the the study of God's Word. their hearts.
not, complacency. values and issues abortion way to it has now been re­In contrast, the condition of The Scriptures say: "The goal As we head into our final raises. 
vealed. Jesus said, "I am the entrance at Notre Dame is a of our instruction is love from aweeks of the semester, our There is a saying, "Those who truth and the way and the life; high school diploma, and a good pure heart, a clear conscience, group will continue to strive to stand for nothing will fall for 
no one comes to the Father grade point, SAT scores and and a sincere faith." If the
provide students, faculty, and anything." As educated Notre 
except through me" and "the social standing, etc. Also, in central mission of this
community with events, sym­Dame and Saint Mary's 
words I speak are truth." The contrast, the reason for University is to nurture
bols, forums, and speakers that students, we owe it to ourselves so called pursuit of truth should studying at ND is to obtain a ND Christian faith, hope and love in bring this controversial issue to to take a stand. 
b~ one of growing in the grace degree in order to get a good the hearts and minds of its stu­life. 
and knowledge of Jesus Christ job and to make a decent living. dents, I think it could be doing
We encourage everyone to Julie Hennigan 
and His Word. Students are at ND to learn, but much better. Its efforts (thoughtake a moment next week, Pro­Siegfried Hall This was the purpose of the problem is few agree on recently greatly improving) to
Life week, to think of what President, ND Right to Life 
America's earlier universities. what is to be learned. develop the students spirituallyabortion truly is, and how it can 12, 1992 All the Ivy League schools ex­The Christian belief through are weak. 
cept Cornell were established to the centuries had been that For instance I know of stu­
prepare young men for the God's Word in its original lan­dents who have tried five, six, 
work of preaching God's Word guages was the primary if not and seven times to attend the 
through studying the scriptures. only truth to be studied in order Notre Dame Encounter retreat 
For instance, Harvard's origi­to live correctly. before they could get in. There 
nal charter or preamble states: Notre Dame's soul is in dan­is a hunger here for truth, but 
"Let every student be plainly in­ger because it either does not unfortunately there is a famine 
structed, and earnestly pressed know what is truth and where for the Word of God and that 
to consider well, the main end to find it or it is trying to do true bread from heaven which -­
of his life and studies is to know what Jesus said was impossible: alone can satisfy this hunger. 
God and Jesus Christ which is "You cannot serve God and 
eternal life (John 17:3) and mammon." I know many will Peter Helland 
therefore to lay Christ in the disagree, but "wisdom is justi­Notre Dame '78 
bottom, as the only foundation fied by its children." Are the ND April3, 1992 
. -.. ---~ ..... t:. 

Accent 
page 12 Monday, April 6, 1992 
And th e w1nner 1s. • • 
Pasqueri lias sweep dorm and rector of the year 
By STEVE TANKOVICH 
Accent Writer 
Hall Presidents' Councii(HPC) has made an announcement of the 1991-92 dorm and rector/rectress of the year. The winner of 'dorm of the year' was Pasquerilla West(PW). and the rector/rectress of the year award was presented to Sister Joris Binder of Pasquerila East( PE). 
A live member panel from HPC came to the decision after reviewing a number of applications for both awards submit­ted by dorms across the campus. 
"It's a difficult process," stated 1991­92 HPC co-chair Kevin Roxas, a member of the reviewing committee. 
"A lot of ingenuity was shown," added Hoxas, mentioning that the panel received such diverse applications as a video, essays, slides and picture books. 
The recently selected dorm of the year, Pasquerilla West, has a long list of accomplishments for the past year. One of the dorm's busiest periods took place in October, when PW held a large number of events in conjunction with their tenth anniversary. 

Pasquerilla Day was held on October 5, 1991. The joint event with Pasquerilla East involved competitions between the two dorms and a birthday celebration. In the evening, a dinner was held in honor of the Pasquerilla family, the benefacotrs of the two dorms, and a Mass was said by Father Malloy. 
In addition, PW made a donation to the Holy Cross Missions as a way of thanking the Pasquerillas for their generosity. 
Along with PW's involvement with Pasquerilla Day. the dorm held their fall SYH that same weekend. For a different twist, there was a Dorm Queen contest which involved competition in many creative events like "the slowest bike race" and a jello tug-of-war. 
During the fall semester, the dorm sponsored several dinners and forums for special interest groups in the PW community. In addition to a date rape seminar with Cavanaugh and an alcohol education program with Sorin, welcome back forums were held for the foreign studins students, and a dinner was held for the seniors with South Bend professional women to discuss career issues. 
There were also two dinners held for PW's first year students: one, held at the Center for Social Concerns, to acquaint the students with the center and opportunities to volunteer, and the other for minority students to introduce them to the Office of Minority Affairs, 
The ladies of PW shined through in their commitment to service. They held a clothing drive for Sex Offense Services, and cooked dinner for Catholic Worker House residents and a local soup kitchen. 
PW sponsored a collection to aid a needy Native American family in the South Bend area, organized a holiday clothing drive for Saint Margaret's and YMCA, and donated to Toys for Tots. In addition, a dinner was held for all those who participated in summer service projects. 
In the area of fellowship, PW did much to promote bonding and friendships within the dorms. The dorm posted a strong set of teams in RecSports this year, sending their soccer and football teams into the late rounds of tournament play for the second year in a row. The basketball and volleyball teams also had noted success. 
Finally, PW's spiritual development was promoted through a series of retreats. PW held a combined retreat with Stanford in the fall, a women's retreat in the spring, and also a retreat for graduating seniors. 
The members of the PW were very excited about the award, an achievement to be added to PW's being named last year's Antostal dorm. 
"We're really glad that a newer dorm got recognized," voiced 1991-92 PW Co­President Jennifer Avegno. 
Excitement was also expressed by the members of Pasquerilla East, upon recognition of Sister Joris Binder as the rectress of the year. 
"We were totally thrilled." said 1991­92 Pasquerilla East Co-President Adrienne Speyer, who along with fellow Co-President Patricia Stanford, nominated Sister Joris for the award. 
Speyer and Stanford went around PE to collect anecdotes from residents in preparation for the nomination. Then, Speyer put the strong feelings that PE residents felt for their rectress into an essay for the application for the award. 
The essay explained how Sister Joris is someone who is always there for the residents of PE. 
The dorm has faced real tragedy in the last year with the death of two of its residents. Would-be sophomore Caroline Schippereit was killed in a tragic automobile accident last May, and freshman Julie Gather died over this past Christmas break. 
During this time Sister J oris " ... demonstrated compassion in the face of grief.", stated the essay. After learning of Caroline's death, Sister Joris took direct steps to contact the members of PE over the summer in a compassionate letter to inform them of the community's loss. 
The essay explained that Sister Joris spent long hours in planning masses for both of the departed students and that a workshop for Julie was held in the dorm by University Counseling Center "to help the students cope with grief,". 
Sister Joris " ... still talks and corresponds with Caroline's family on a regular basis, thereby personifying her perva­sive belief in the universality of the Pasquerilla East Community.", said Speyer. 

Yet, even beyond Sister's willingness to respond in times of tragedy, the members of PE attest to Sister Joris' strong leadership. "She is there every day... ," Speyer remarked, " ... even in the little things." 
Sister Joris helped the Pasquerilla East Government (PEG) with her strong support of and participation in PEG's activities. 
She played a big role in PEG's first semester leadership workshop, in a second semester follow-up workshop, and at PEG's first All-Hall meeting last September. One attendee of the meeting pointed out that as part of an icebreaker activity called "Musical Babyfood" Sister Joris was even willing to eat a spoonful of Gerber's green pea baby food. 
In the essay, credit is given to Sister Joris for encouraging the Hall Fellows program and for establishing an annual Saint Catherine of Sienna award. This honor is awarded to "an outstanding woman in our midst who possesses the qualities of Saint Catherine.", explained Sister Joris. · 

Sister Joris' response to the rectress of the year award was very humble. "I consider myself an enabler ­consider this a ministry," said Sister. 
She compliments her staff, including the dorm security and housekeepers, and she especially compliments the residents of PE. 
"They're the ones that really execute," stated Sister Joris, ".. .1 have not been as involved as I would have liked to be." Sister Joris considers this award as a real tribute to the PE community. 
"It's a sign of the leadership of women today~ in the Church and more than ever, in society." Sister Joris stated. 
Despite the tragedy that Pasquerilla East has faced, the residents of PE have been able to continue their growth as community and individuals. The members of Pasquerilla East are quick to attribute much of this to their rectress, Sister Joris Binder. As Speyer wrote in the essay, " ... Sister has taught all those around her to respond with a warm heart and sympathetic delicacy." 
Psych department seeking twins 
By JULIE WILKENS 
Assistant Accent Editor 
n an effort to conduct studies 
concerning the genetic behavior 
of twins, the psychology 
department at Notre Dame is 

creating a "1\vin Registry." 
To produce this listing of twins, the 

department is requesting that all twins, 
whether identical and fraternal, contact 
them with their name, address, and 
phone number. 
The Twin Registry's purpose is to 

create a pool of candidates for future 
studies in behavioral genetics such as 
homosexuality and alcoholism, two 
topics that were recently studied at the 
Boston University school of Medicine and 
the University of Minnesota respectively, 
explained Ed Delgado, a graduate 
student in psychology. 
Delgado is working on the project with 

an eventual aim to incorporate the work 
as a base for his master's thesis. 
The registry is headed by Dr. Cindy 

Bergeman, Ph.D. Dr. Bergeman has 
worked extensively with twins, including one study she completed while in graduate school at Penn State on the genetic effects on the aging process of twins. 
Dr. Bergeman will be teaching a course at Notre Dame in behavioral genetics in the fall. 
Twins who partake in the Twin Registry can be students, staff, and alumni. Although the twins must be of the same sex, only one of the twins needs to be on campus. 
The backbone of the studies will deal with the role of genetics versus the environment in certain behaviors. 
"Take a study already done, such as alcoholism, for example,;' said Delgado. "Twins would be asked whether they had any self-reported alcohol problems. If both have had some problems, we would consider that alcoholism is genetic. If only one reports a problem, then we would consider it random, or owing to the environment. Other things we might look into might be personality, such as introverts versus extraverts." 
The studies themselves will vary with each instance. "Most of the studies will consist of questionnaires or psychological tests," explained Delgado. 
"There will be nothing medical like blood tests, nothing in a lab. There is absolutely no risk." 
Eventually the studies will provide valuable information on physical health. "The twin design offers a very good way to study such possibilities," said Dr. Bergeman. "Eventually we can gain information on types of diseases as well as different attributes such as per­sonality and intelligence.", he added. 
Although signing up for the Twin Registry does identify the subject as a twin, they are not obligated to participate in any of the studies. With each test, subjects will be given consent forms and granted the opportunity to refuse involvement. 
"Every test must go through the 
University Committee for the Protection of Human Subjects," said Delgado. "They must approve the test following the use of certain guidelines. This would be prior to any contact with the subject." 
When questioned on the benefits for twins who participate, Delgado explained. "Psychology majors may receive extra credit for participation. As far as any monetary pay, it is dependent of each study. Although it is not necessarily involved, I wouldn't rule it out in the future." 
"I think most twins realize they are a valuable resource in the field of research," said Dr. Bergeman. "There are so many factors in differentiating be­tween regular siblings, but twins are the same age at the same time." 
To become entered in the Twin Registry, students may send their name, phone number, and address to 118 Haggar Hall, Department of Psychology, Campus. Students may also call Ed Delgado at 271-9039 and leave the information. 
M_o_n_d_a_y_,A_p_r_ii_6_,_19_9_2____________________________________~Th~e~O~b~se~~~e~r----------------------------------------------~e13 

SOFTBALL
BOOKSTORE
TRANSACTIONS E\IANSY!LI E AB B H B! NQTBEOAME AB B H Bl Czenk,W 2 0 0 o Alvarez. c1 
3 0 0 0 

BASEBALL National League Saunders, ph 1 0 0 0 Folsom, c 2 1 1 0 
American Laagua ATLANTA BRAVES-Sent Vinny Castilla, infielder, Kuehane, c:l 3 0 0 0 Hayes, rl 2 1 1 0
5 Guys with No Social Life d. Fiesta Quad & Some Random Chick, 21-17
to Richmond ol the International League. Pollman, ss 3 0 0 o
BALm.40BE OBIOLES-Op1ioned Alan Mills and Pinter, 1b 3 0
4 Studs_& Some other Guy del. Fumigated Dingleberries, 21·12 0 0LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Placed Jay Howell,
Jim Lewis, pitchers, 10 Rochester of the April Be1gn del. All of Cliff's Men, forfeit H ayes, 3b 3 0 0 o Connoyer, 2b 3 0 0 0
pitcher, on the 15-day disabled list, retroactive to

International League. Yogurt del. Macadam Mayhem, 21·15 Spurlock, p 2 0 0 0 C.Mil!er, p 3 0 0 0
April 4. Sent Kip Gross. p~cher. to Albuquerque of Wiley, dp 3 0 1 0
CALIFORNIA ANGELS-sent Luis Soja, infielder, Development Dawgs IV del. Options without a Future, 21-19 Boulac, 3b 2 0 0 0
the Pac~ic Coast League. Manassah, 1 b 3 0 0 0
to Edmonton of the Pac~lc Coast League. Sent The Rubber Biscuits del. Gir!z in the Hood, 21-14 Quinn.~ 2 0 0 0
MONTREAL EXPOs-Sent Sergio Valdez, pitcher,

Bene Gonaz!es, Infielder, and Chris Beasley, Sutton, rl 2 0 0 o Kmak, ss
Snake Dance Watussis del. The Good Hands People, 21-19 2 0 1 0to minor league camp for reassignment. Sent
pitcher, to their minor league camp for reassign· Milaca del. It'll be a Lot Like Spartacus, 21-19 Mahler, 2b 2 0 1 0 l.Miller, W 0 0 0 0
Jonathan Hurst, pitcher, to Indianapolis of the May,c 0 0 0 0
mont. Morris In Keepers del. Pink Volvo's 21·17
American Association.

CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Placed Bo Jackson, TOTALS 24 0 2 0 TOTALS 22 2 3 o
I~am Cheese vs. Home Alone: !siah Thomas Summer Story, double forleit
NEW YORK METS-Optloned Chris Dannels, in·

designated hitter, on the 15-day disabled. Signed F1rst Bound Bye del. Juan Y Los Peluches, forfeit E-Hayes, Spurlock. LOB-NO 4, Evansville 4. 2B-Hayes. SB-Aivarez 2.
fielder, to Tidewater of the International League.

Terry Leach, pitcher. Sent Brian Drahman and PITCHING P H B EB BB SO
L·Train Ill del. The Hall One Still Can1 Play, forfeit
PITTSBURGH PIRATES-Optioned Rosario

Steve Wapnlck, pitchers, to Vancouver of the NOTRE DAME (16-13)
Quimbola Men· too much JT and JD to care del. Bird and Loees, 21-16Pacific Coast League. Team 244 del. Boss, 21-17 C.Miller (W, 4-4) 7 2 0 0 6
Rodriguez, pitcher. to Buffalo of the American 
Association.

DETROIT TIGERS-Optioned John Kiely, pttcher, 5 Degrees and No Jobs del. BA Ho's, 21·7 EVANSVILLE (8-18)
SAN DIEGO PADRES-Placed Larry Andersen,

to Toledo of the International League. Spurlock (L, 2-4)
American Gladiators del. Cirrhosis of the Liver, 21-16 6 3 2 0 2 3pitcher. on the 15-day disabled list. Optioned Phil
OAKLAND ATHLETICS-Placed Bob Welch and Boyz in the Hoop del. Pile on Dave, 21-17 I-1 :15. A-100.
Stephenson, first baseman, to Las Vegas of the

Joe Klink. pitchers; Walt Weiss and Bandy Beady, EVANSYIII E
The Hackers del. If you think we're tough...., 21·12 A B H Bl NOTRE DAME A B H B1Pacific Coast League. Purchased the contracts ofinfielders; Daw Henderson. outlielder, on the 15· Tyson &4 who won't contend for title del. Homey's w/out harmony. 21·18 Kuehne, cf 3 0 0 0 Alvarez, cf 2 0 0 0Pat Clements and Dave Eiland, pitchers; Kevin
day disabled list. Placed Kirk Dressendor1er. May,c
SoCo, Zero, & the Jersey Trio del. The Pork Choppers, 21·9 3 0 0 0 Keys, ph 1 0 0 0Ward, ouUielder, from Las Vegas of the Pacificpitcher, on the 60-day disabled list. Sent Johnny We Don't Like Box Defense del. It's Good to be the King 21-13 Pollman, ss 3 0 0 0 Folsom, c 2 0 0 0Coast League.
Guzman, pitcher, to Huntsville of the Southern Civil Disobedience del. Stone Cold Busch, 21·4 ' Spurlock, 1 b 3 0 0 0 Cook, ph 1 0 0 0
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Placed Kevin Bass.

League. Recalled John Briscoe, pitcher, from 
The Big Buss Attack del. 5White Guys, 'null Said, 21-10 Wiley, dp 2 0 0 0 Hayes, rl 3 0 0 0
ouUielder, on the 15-day disabled list retroactive toTacoma of the Pacific Coast League. Purchased How Do Ya' Li<e them Apples? del. Bunning Scarred, 21-10 Hayes, 3b 2 0 0 0 Pinter, 1b 3 0 0 0

March 29. Recalled John Patterson, infielder, from

the contract of Mike Kingery, outlielder, from 
Game Cancelled del. We Got Screwed out of a Name Last Year 21·13 Osowski, p 2 0 0 0 Connoyer. 2b 2 0 1 0
Phoenix of the Pac~ic Coast League.

Tacoma. 
Team 666 del. Big hair Kara & the Monsters, 21·13 ' Mahler, 2b 2 0 0 0 L.Miller,pr 0 1 0 0
FOOTBALLTEXAS RANGERs-Assigned Todd Burns. pttcher, Boss Twins & 3 Other Guys del. Hop, Skip, & Go Naked, 21-7 Czenk, n 2 0 0 0 C.Miller,lf 2 0 0 0

to Oklahoma City of the American Association. National Football League 
Torts 'B' Us del. Hawk, Scrod, Vinny, Steak, & Wizard, 21-12 Sutton, rl 0 0 0 0 Boulac, 3b 1 0 0 0TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Announced that Shawn TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS-Announced that 
U, Me & OPP del. Cliff Claven, Boss Twins, & 2 others who can1 Score, 21-19 McMurray, dp 2 0 1 0Harry Hamitton, defensive end, will not be offered aHillegas. pitcher. refused a waiver claim and be· If You're Soft You've Lost del. Guts, 21-4 Reuter, pr 0 0 0 0 came a free agent. Optioned David Weathers, contract. 
The Fab 4 & One More del. BP Bosom Buddies, 21·13 Cline, pr 0 0 0 0World Leaguepitcher, to Syracuse of the International League. 
Nuts del. Have Thall, 21-13 Kmak, ss 1 0 1 0LONDON MONARCHS-Released Greg Jones.
Purchased the contract of An redo Gr~fin, infielder. 
20 3 0
quarterback. OHIO GLORY-Activated Kerry Owens,linebacker.

from Syracuse. 
E-Boulac, Mahler. LOB-NO 3, Evansville 1. SB-L. Miller. CS-Beuter. S­
Boulac. PIICHIM> IP H B EB BB so NOTRE DAME (17-13) 
Linn fY'/, 7·7) 7 0 o o o EVANSVILLE (8·19) Osowski (L.4·10) 6 3 o T-1 :05. A-100. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
TOTALS 22 0 0 0 TOJALS 

NOTICES  Lost: Blue ID case lost on 4/1 in the Huddle sometime between 11-12 at lunch. Contains NY license, NO id,  **'*Driving to MA for Easter Break? Looking for a ride to the Springfield or South Shore area-PLEASE call Jenn at 4241 !!!I!****  6 BEDROOM HOME. WALK TO CAMPUS.FURNISHED.272-6306 j FOR SAlE II  In the heart of every woman, there is a Mardi Gras Mombo waiting to come out. ..  ATIENTION!II MATI CARR IS 21 It's o.k. to be 21 and still a VIRGIN !I Don't worry, hopefully little  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  Senior Bar card, money card, Detex. If found, please call Dee at 277-5798.  FOR RENT  I MAC+ with 2 DRIVES and HARD  S E  E  N  I  0  R  S:  Pepe will grow someday!! hey nil  
$$ FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-Sat  ·  DRIVE with tons of SOFTWARE.  
Pandora's Books  LOST: Gold Louisville Cardinal  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  asking $900 Chris2779442  N  "NEW JOB LISTING"  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  
corner of NO ave & Howard  charm with ruby eye. Sentimental  219-291-7153.  HANDOUT AVAILABLE IN  Info on semester, year, graduate,  
reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday  value! Reward! Call271-1177  '71 OLDS DELTA 88  CAREER & PLACEMENT  summer and internship programs in  
3 Bedroom  "The Perfect College Car!"  SERVICES OFFICE. PICK  Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and  
LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes  Found 3/28 a strand of pearls by  Walk to Campus  Only 61,500 ORIGINAL miles  0  UP YOURS TODAY.  Melbourne. Programs start at  
every Sat. and Sun. at 8:00AM.  Greenhouse behind Haggar.  $555 Month  Auto, NC, PIS, P/B, P/Seats  $3520. Call1-800-878-3696.  
Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment and training programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948­2665.  Call Eric x2059 to claim. FOUND: TEAL PACIFIC TRAIL SKI JACKET LAST FRIDAY, 3/27, IN CAVANAUGH HALL. CALL  232 3616 COLLEGE PARK CONDOS -12 NEW UNITS -1300 sq. ft. -Ironwood & Bulla · 2 B/R -2 Bath - Runs Perfectly!1-;~~~~;;  R s S  E  N  I  0  R  S:  The Lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans! Irish Music and Dance  
MIKEAT1431.  available immediately-call287­ One way ticKet. :sm. t::mo. 10  Every Tuesday at Club 23  
DOS User's Meeting  0534 or 271-9268.  Pgh. on 4/15. $80.  Call Lee.  E  SEAMAISIN  
Thurs. April 9 at 7:00pm Room G015B of the CCMB  WANTED  Newly remodeled 4-bdrm,  # 1200  N  "NEW JOB LISTING"  to the athletic dept.:  
Come for the software raffle!  2-bath home. Near Lafayette  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS.  HANDOUT AVAILABLE IN  your time is gonna come  
SUMMER JOBS  Square Town homes. All kitchen  Will pay ANY amount of money.  CAREER & PLACEMENT  ---Jed zeppelin  
TYPING AVAILABLE  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  appliances, washer/dryer. 2-car  Call JIM X1577  SERVICES OFFICE. PICK  
287·4082.  PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  garage. $700/mo. Ref. & 10-mo.  0  UP YOURS TODAY.  Heading for EUROPE this summer?  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  lease required. 277-4583.  Paul Tsongas wants tickets!! Total  Jet there anytime for $169 from the  
Typing  NEAR LAKE PLACID  $$tor 2-4 grad tix Mickey x1846  R  East Coast, $229 from the Midwest  
Pickup & Delivery  CALL 1-800-786-8373  Summer sublet-Turtle Creek  (when available) with AIRHITCH!  
277-7406  2-bdrm, furnished 271-8466  DESPERATELY NEED TICKETS  s  (Reported in Let's Go! & NY Times.)  
Grad student seeking House­ TO GRADUATION IN MAY!!  For details:  
sitting position for summer.  SUMMER SUBLEASE CHEAPII!  You should be with us, feeling like  AIRHITCH(r) 212-864-2000.  
LOST/FOUND  Will care for plants & pets. Mature & Responsible. Call  Furnished Turtle Creek Townhouse Available for summer. 2, 3, or 4  WILL PAY MUCH$$$!!  we do...  ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS  

 Yanxi 277-7876.  students rent negotiable. 2  Keith -Welcome to the Jungle  A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS  
LOST: gold chain w/heart  bdr,2bath, pool. Call Mike/Matt  CALL RUSS @ #2369  A BABY! Young financially secure  
overlapping another heart (w/  STUDENT NEEDED to manage the  X3414 or 3410  PORT-A-PIT CHICKEN & RIBS  Catholic couple looking to adopt and  
stone). If found, please call  Notre Dame area of an Ann Arbor  HAWAII AFTER FINALS?  Saturday, April 25, (Blue-Gold  provide a loving home to an infant.  
Stephanie at X4914. Much  Business. No experience nee. but  SUMMER SUBLET (TURTLE  One-way ticket to Hawaii!  Game Day), at St. Joseph's High  All Expenses paid. Please call  
sentimental value. Reward Offered  must be motivated, May 'til July.  CREEK) 272-9540!  For Sale! CHEAP!  School.  collect (317) 364-0300 for more  
Good$. 313·930-6962 2-5 p.m.  Leaves Saturday, May 9  Help the parents keep the kids safe  information.  
Lost:  GRADUATING SENIOR-FEMALE  call x1435  after the prom. Proceeds go to  
A pair of eyeglasses w/Carrerra  Looking for experience to place on  · LOOKING FOR ROOMIE FOR  support the  THE TUTUS ARE BACK...  
frames, in either Fitzpatrick or  your resume? Need Notre Dame or  MISH/ELKHART AREA. JOYCE  FOR SALE: chp. 1 way tick. SB  Jr/Sr Post-Prom Party.  
LaFortune computer labs on late  St. Mary's students for part-time  284-5319  to Los Angeles. Monday, 5/18.  Advance ticket prices for Port-A-Pit  There I was, there I was, there I was  
Wed. night (Mar. 25) or€arly Thurs.  sales positions, from April through  are $3.50/chicken, and $4/ribs. Call  ... in a tutu  
morning (Mar. 26). If found, call  July, 1992, to sell advertising in  ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO.,  272-3753 and leave message.  
Frank @1692.  Daily Shillelagh. Seeking  FOR LARGE 4-BEDROOM,  Tickets can be delivered directly to  ADOPTION  
motivated, enthusiastic, outgoing,  FURNISHED HOUSE. COMPLETE  you on campus.  Childless, Christian, Couple wishes  
FOUND:  1 gold hoop clip-on  and professional students with  SECURITY SYSTEM, WASHER &  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  to adopt. Legal and medical paid.  
earring.  Between B.P. and  reliable transportation.  Send  DRYER, 9-MO. LEASE. DEPOSIT.  Good rates. Save Money. Call me  Mak 'n Ste  Call Bill and Kathy, Collect, at 219­ 
Farley, Friday night, 3/27.  resume to Karen Prebys, Penny  259-7801 OR 255-5852.  for a quote 9:30-6:00,  lluv u  322-8187.  
call Jim · x1558.  Saver, P.O. Box 326, South Bend,  289-1993. Office near campus.  
IN 46624.  RESERVE YOUR 2, 4, or 5  G­ S  E  N  I  0  R  S:  
LOST: My favorite brown SUEDE  Bedroom House for 92-93 NOW!  Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award  Congrats on UW  
GLOVES! If found, PLEASE call  We are looking for a mature and  Safe Area, Private Parking  Winning Hotel, has rooms for  -j  E  
Jen at x2650.  dependable student to babysit our  Lot, Volleyball & Basketball Court,  Graduation weekend. Located at  
newborn for 30 to 40 hours a week,  Semi-Furnished. Call 234·1886  Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart  Happy Birthday, Tommy P.  N  "NEW JOB LISTING"  
LOSTI LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST!  in our home, starting May 18th.  (12 miles from South Bend)  HANDOUT AVAILABLE IN  
On Wednesday, 3/25, I lost my HP- Experience preferred; personal or  6-month Sublet, Junto Nov  Minimum stay 2 nights with $110  a.k.a. Warde  CAREER & PLACEMENT  
17B business calculator somewhere  academic references accepted and  University Village 2 B/R  deposit per room. Send letter with  SERVICES OFFICE. PICK  
on campus. SERIOUS REWARD!!!!  salary negotiable. Please call us at  Washer, Air-con, VCR  deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd.,  a.k.a. Book in the Head  0  UP YOURS TODAY.  
John x3588.  287-3247.  $195,  271-8401  Elkhart, IN 46514.  
May you live many more moons,  R  
LOST  Need a ride to Vanderbilt any  Attractive studio's in lpvely old  SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $251  and may we meet for many pints in  
Men's spiral hairbone  weekend. Will help with expenses,  Mansion 1 /2 mile from NO 225­ each way on discounted scheduled  the future.  s  
necklace somwhere between  etc.  300/Mo. plus deposit. Call 2879624  airlines to Europe from CHICAGO.  
Flanner. Comp/Math, and ROTC  Call Rich @ X1695  for summer and fall rentals.  Call (800) 325-2026.  (That goes for everyone.) .  ***JOE BINKIEWICZ***  
Please call Mike x1143  You wear your sweatpants well!  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  Help Me, Please  Your Binkie ain't too dinky!-Secret  
LOST!!!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!I!!!LOST:  -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month.  FOR RENT: 515 W. Marion; roomy  Custom-made  Admirer  
Free transportation! Room & Board!  3-story house, ample parking,  HAIR-BOWS  I need graduation tickets if anyone  
GE DOUBLE CASSETIE PLAYER  Over 8,000 openings. No  security, close to NO. 272-5509.  has some they are not going to use.  HELP! I need 4 grad tix-Mary  
experience necessary. Male or  by Lynn and Sally  Call Quinn at x2059 if you have any  X2512  
@ At Zahm Jam at Thee's.  Female. For employment program  ROOM FOR RENT.  info.  
call Student Employment Services  Privacy, garage, cable, utilities incl.,  callx2764  "I got a woman  
If you know of its whereabouts  at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597.  wash/dryer. Nice home -must see.  please, help me  stay drunk all the time."  
please call:  291-9093.  -various materials, designs  Zepfest IV  
BE ON T.V many needed tor  and colors available- Need to feed a crowd?  April9,10 &11  
284-4382  commercials. Now hiring all ages.  SUMMER SUBLET! I!  Try our six foot Cold Cut Combo!!  
For casting info. Call  Turtle Creek-2 bdrm townhouse.  Served with lettuce and tomatoe ­ 
Thanks Easter Bunny  (615) 779-7111 Ext. 1678.  Rent negotiable.  NEED 2 Tickets for Graduation  only $37.95!!  Who needs her?  
Call Teri or Laney x4829  please call Neal at 283-1159  Call SUBWAY 277-7744  


---~-~-­
page 14 The Observer Monday, April 6, 1992 
Goodenow strikes proposal to end NHL players' holdout 
NEW YORK (AP) -The NHL 

Players Assoeiation has pre­
sented the strike-bound league 
with a new proposal in the 
area of contract length. 
executive director Bob 
Goodenow said Sunday night. 
At a hastily called newes conf~lrence prior to Monday's board of govPrnors meeting in New York, Goodenow said that he had talked to NHL president John Ziegler earlier Sunday and gave hi1n the proposal to take to the owners. 
Goodenow said the proposal is for a two-year contract, along with a retroactive year dating bat:k to the start of the 1991-92 season. Goodenow said the proposal includes a "reopener" clause after one year based on economic condi­tifms. 
"We're trying to be respon­sive to the areas of concern for the owners," Goodenow said. 
Originally, the owners wanted a five-year contract and the players three. The owners' last proposal was for a one-year deal. which the players rejected. 
Goodenow also reported on various discussions that he had had with Ziegler over the past week in Toronto and New York. He said also that there had been "a significant change" involving the free agency issue. 
Asked to explain lt, he said only: "It involves the right of first refusal in certain cate­gories." 
It was the second news con­ference involving association players within six hours on Sunday, the fifth day of the NHL strike. 
Earlier, an NHLPA negotiat­

ing committee member had 
said there are "very few things 
holding up an agreement" on 
a new contract. 

The only major issue standing between owners and players for a new collective bargaining agreement was the licensing of hockey trading cards, said Mike Gartner of the New York Rangers, a member of the NHLPA negotiating committee. 
"We want to continue to re­ceive the money from the hockey cards," Gartner said Sunday at news conference. "That is probably the single­most important issue. 
"It's one of those issues, if it doesn't get decided (Monday at the board of governors' meet­ing), it will never get decided. It's extremely important to our players association." 
Gartner said most of the is­sues, including free agency, had been virtually decided. 
The hockey card market brings in about $16 million a year. The players and their union receive about $11 million of the revenue. 
The owners want to negotiate an agreement that would give them more money. Because the money from cards helps to run the union, players do not want to negotiate that issue. 
"Our union is the main is­sue," Gartner said. "Free agency has been negotiated and agreed to in principle. The others are non-economic is• sues." · 
Sunday's news conference was unexpected in its format. It was originally supposed to be a solo conference. 
McHale, Boston shoot Bulls down 

AP Photo 

Kevin McHale lead the Boston Celtics over the Chicago Bulls Sunday in teammate Larry Bird's absence. 
BOSTON  (AP)  - Kevin  in their three previous meet- four. Cleveland, which has won  
McHale, taking charge with  ings, got 26 points from Michael  four straight overall and 12  
Larry Bird out with an aching  Jordan and 22 from Scottie  straight at home, has a magic  
back, scored 10 of his 20 points  Pippen. But the Bulls' bid for a  number of three over New York  
in the fourth quarter and the  club-record 62nd victory was  for clinching home-court advan- 
Boston Celtics foiled Chicago's  delayed.  tage through the second round  
bid for  a  four-game  season  of the playoffs.  
series sweep Sunday with a 97­ Cavaliers 97, Knicks 93  The Knicks overcame a  13­ 
86 victory over the Bulls.  RICHFIELD,  Ohio  - Brad  point fourth-quarter deficit be- 
The Celtics, who have won  Daugherty scored 22 points, in- hind  the  shooting  of John  
eight of their last nine, ended  eluding  two  clinching free  Starks,  who  sank  three  3­ 
Chicago's five-game winning  throws after Larry Nance's  pointers in the period. His 3­ 
streak and handed the Bulls  block preserved a two-point  pointer with 2:31 left put New  
only their second defeat in 15  lead in the closing seconds.  York ahead 92-90. But Nance  
games.  New York's magic number for  ·  answered with a  layup and  
Chicago, which had beaten  clinching the Atlantic Division  Battle sank a 15-footer that put  
Boston by 19, 22 and 34 points  title over Boston remained at  Cleveland ahead for good, 94­ 
92.with 1·08 left  

~··one twre way to see businesses Joet moce than $60 Wolves 93, Jazz 91 )'0111' (u~ 10 up in IIIIOke. 
biDioo to drup. So this year, fail;::~.:·::.:.~~ WE'RE PUTniG o•s OUT OF -lESS. MINNEAPOLIS -Reserve
Dodrup. moet ol the Fortune 500 will be l>oini drup could blow )'0111' • • 
Tony Campbf'll scored 22 points

Lut year alooe, America's administerina drua testa. u)'OU whole education. Parlrlnsltipfor a l>rNg-FtW AIIWriaJ 
and Minnesota made eight free throws in the final minute to win its third straight game. 

CHEM 119L 02 3053 HIST 395 01 0080 RLST 240 30 9530
Closed sections as of 
Pooh Richardson added 17

COTH 330 01 3569 HIST 440A 01 3739 RLST 335 56 9556
12:00 noon 4/6/92 
points and Felton Spencer had 

COTH 334C 01 3572 HIST 444A 01 3741 ROFR 426 01 3438 
16 points and a season-high 16 ACCT 372 01 0852 COTH 435 01 3575 HIST 453A 01 3743 ROSP 103 05 2586 
rebounds for the Timberwolves, ACCT 473 01 0854 ECON 403 01 3584 HIST 458A 01 3745 ROSP 318 01 2602 
who have defeated Denver, Dallas and the Jazz after losing 

ACCT 475 02 0857 ECON 403T 01 3585 HIST 459A 01 3746 ROSP 328 01 2603 
a team-record 16 in a row. TheACCT 475 03 0858 ECON 421 01 1350 HIST 465A 01 3747 soc 332 01 0054 

victory ended a team-record,ACCT 475 04 0123 ECON 422 01 0662 HIST 472A 01 3748 soc 400 01 3850 

eight-game home losing streak ACCT 479 01 0863 EDUC 324 18 8418 HIST 474A 01 3749 soc 400T 01 385i 
for Minnesota. AERO 444L 01 0872 ENGL 311 01 1561 !IPS 335 01 4138 soc 448 01 3027 
Karl Malone led Utah with 33 points and 13 rebounds, but heAERO 444L 02 0873 ENGL 319A 01 1564 LAW 631A 01 1826 soc 520 01 2631 missed a potential game-tying AERO 444L 04 0875 ENGL 319A 02 1565 LAW 631B 01 1827 STV 247 01 3290 jumper at the buzzer. 

AERO 446L 02 0879 ENGL 324 01 3592 LAW 652A 01 0535 STV 310 01 3716 AERO 446L 03 0880 ENGL 328A 01 0175 LLRO 451 01 3826 STV 454 01 3029 AERO 446L 04 0881 ENGL 384C 01 3164 MARK 476 01 1861 THEO 237 01 0709 
Cheap

AFAM 384 01 3520 ENGL 416F 01 3074 ME 469 01 0235 THEO 250 01 0661 AFAM 384C 01 3519 ENGL 417 01 3611 MGT 231 03 2015 THEO 258 01 3874 
continued from page 20 

AFAM 452 01 3214 ENGL 440B 01 3613 MGT 231 05 2018 THEO 261 01 0704 nearly muted the next day,
AFAM 474 01 4152 ENGL 471A 01 3623 MUS 220 01 0330 THEO 265 01 0703 when America realized that five
ANTH 310 01 2935 ENGL 475A 01 3351 MUS 2200 01 2092 THEO 281 01 3151 freshman had brought their 
ANTH 328 01 2798 ENGL 485C 01 1581 MUS 221 01 2646 THEO 287 01 0254 
team to the Final Four. ANTH 329 01 3225 ENGL 492C 01 3628 MUS 223 01 0327 THEO 288 01 4070 
And Michigan is riding the ANTH 454 01 3028 ENGL 493A 01 3629 MUS 226 01 2095 THEO 290 02 4157 
wave. Though the Wolverines keep getting caught in closeARHI 397 01 3307 ENGL 495A 01 3630 NSCI 411 03 2165 games, they never seem to loseARST 133S 01 0990 FIN 376 04 1620 PHIL 222 01 2195 

Classes that will 
control. Despite the Five Xs' 

ARST 325S 01 1003 FIN 4 62 01 1625 PHIL 225 01 3137 
lack of experience, Michigan BA 362 01 1057 FIN 473 01 1629 PHIL 230 01 3785 
reopen at 7:00 p.m. 
pounds and pounds until the BA 391 01 0769 FIN 476 01 0117 PHIL 235 01 2197 
Monday 4/6/92 
opponent succumbs. Duke just keeps dodging bullets, whetherBA 391 02 0768 FIN 478 01 1630 PHIL 243 01 3786 ACCT 475 02 0857 

they be off-balance Randy

BA 391 03 0559 GE 301 01 2984 PHIL 246 01 2198 ACCT 475 04 0123 
Woods shells or Todd Leary

BA 490 03 1067 GOVT 403 01 3670 PHIL 247 01 3190 ANTH 310 01 2935 
downtown bombs. BA 490 04 1068 GOVT 419 01 4150 PHIL 253 01 3141 BA 490 03 1067 
Duke is tired. They've gotten
' 
bored with this Final Four thing. Laettner looks like he's BA 4 90 05 1069 GOVT 454 01 3673 PHIL 265 01 2201 BA 490 05 1069 

BA 490 06 1070 GOVT 474 01 4096 PHIL 268 01 2202 BIOS 344L 01 1084 
ready to stay in Minneapolis

BIOS 344L 01 1084 GSC 358 01 3648 PSY 342 01 2363 ENGL 319A 01 1564 with the Timberwolves. Bobby
BIOS 344L 02 1085 GSC 430 01 3457 PSY 454 01 0306 ENGL 475A 01 3351 
Hurley wants to start practicing BIOS 344L 03 3897 GSC 475 01 3657 PSY 472 01 2364 GOVT 474 01 4096 
alley-oop passes to Grant Hill. BIOS 344L 04 3899 HIST 308A 01 3722 PSY 481 01 3813 ME 469 01 0235 
Krzyzewski seems sick of the attention-let Michigan haveBIOS 405 01 0135 HIST 326A 01 3723 RLST 220 24 9524 MUS 2200 03 2092 some more limelight, he seemsBIOS 455 01 3991 HIST 354A 01 3731 RLST 235 40 9540 RLST 335 56 9556 to say. 

CE 442 01 1178 HIST 358A 01 3733 RLST 240 28 9528 But Michigan is ready to take 
it all. 

Monday, April 6, 1992 The Observer page 15 
SPORTSBRIEFS 
•sports 
Briefs are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit your name, brief, telephone number. and the dates the brief is to run. 

•The Rockne Pool will be closed until further notice due 
to repairs. Rolfs Aquatic Center is open Mon~Fri from 7 a.m. to 4 

p.m. and Sat-Sun from 1 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. 
•trish 
Heartlights Spring 3 and 6 mile runs are scheduled for April 9 at 4 p.m. Students and staff can pick up entry forms ~t RecSports, LaFortune Info desk, and the Dining Halls. For more information, call 239-6100 and ask for Sally. 

•Bookstore 
Basketball enters the round of 5l2 this weeR? Schedules are still available at the SUB ofl'ice,Awaich was foun~. on Stepan 5. Call 283~1224 to claim. 
· ·· 

•Bookstore 
Basketball officials are needed. Interested? Bobby (283-3515) or Patrick (283-407~). ·· 


;%¥ 

•An Tostal Volleyball tournament""si'gn~ups 3f~'.Wed 
from 6-9 p.m. in the Sorin Room in. LaFortune apjl in H Hall lobby. "' 
•Aerobic instructor tryouts wiU!Je-conducted on-Fridl\ 
p.m. in Gym 1 at the JACG. Menan(! worn~ t§!.re auditioning for Aerobic teaching positions year s complete an application form in the RecSports Office prior to<the tryouts. Call239-5100 for more information. 
Sox beat Astros in Denver 
White Sox 4, Astros 2 
DENVER -Mike Huff lined a two-run double off the left-field wall, highlighting a three-run fourth inning, and Chicago got six strong innings from Alex Fernandez to beat Houston at Mile High Stadium. 
The game, played in 70­degree weather, was witnessed by 24,201 fans, who will see major-league baseball for real a year from now when the Colorado Rockies join the National League. 
Cardinals 6, Braves 5 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -St. Louis rallied for two runs in the bottom of the ninth inning to beat Atlanta. The !Braves fin­ished the exhibition season 10­19. 
Terry Pendleton, the 1991 
Summer 
flousing 
m New York City 
Housing available May 24-August 15 
For more information and an application, call toll free 
l-800-282-4NYU Ext. 784 
New York Universily is an affirmative action/equal opportunily institution 
MVP, hit a home run for the Braves. Pedro Guerrero had three hits for St. Louis. 
Angels·7, Dodgers 5 
LOS ANGELES (AP) California completed a three­game sweep of the Los Angeles in their annual Freeway Series, as John Morris keyed the vic­tory with four hits and three RBis. 
Chuck Finley pitched three scoreless innings for the Angels, whose only other three-game sweep of the Dodgers came in 1987. They held them scoreless over the first 21 innings and scored 10 unanswered runs, until Mike Sharperson greeted reliever Chris Beasley with his first home run in 34 at-bats this spring leading off the fourth inning. 
Will you be working, doing an internship, or enjoying a summer in New York? You can live in the heart of Greenwich Village as an NYU Associate or take a course in our exciting summer sessions if you wish. 
• 
Minutes from New York's business and cultural centers 

• 
Apartment-style and traditional residences· single and double occupancy ' 

• 
Outstanding sports-recreation facility 

• 
Includes the New York Experience, an enjoyable noncredit program exploring careers and culture in New York City 

• 
Over 1,000 undergraduate, graduate, and 


professional courses offered 
at 
day and evening 
New 
York 
University 
NYU Summer Housing 
5Washington Place New York, N.Y. 10003 


Baseball's vets open new season 
(AP)-Neither Nolan Ryan nor President Bush made their best pitches to start last year. Today, they both got another chance. 
In a season marked by new faces, new chases and new places, Bush was to begin a new era of baseball in Baltimore with a ceremonial toss this afternoon at Oriole Park at Camden Yards. 
Later in the evening, Ryan, 45, was to begin his 26th season in the majors when he started for the Texas Rangers in Seattle. 
"In all likelihood, this will be my last season," Ryan said. 
Last year, Bush and Ryan pitched together in Texas on opening night. Bush bounced his throw and Ryan struggled, losing to Milwaukee. Both figure to bring their best fastballs this time. 
''I'm ready," Ryan said. ''I've had all the spring training I want." 
Bill Gullickson was to make the first pitch of the year shortly after 1 p.m. EDT at Tiger Stadium in the first of nine openers. Everywhere, there's a new look. 
Jack Morris, Kevin Mitchell, Bobby Bonilla, Wally Joyner, Eric Davis, Eddie Murray and' Dave Winfield are among the big names in different places. The Montreal Expos, one of the teams that have changed uniforms, will show off their bright blue stripes. 
Morris, with his third team in three years, will become the first pitcher to make 13 consecutive opening-day starts, breaking a tie with Robin Roberts and Tom Seaver, when he pitches for Toronto against his old team, the Tigers. 
Morris has been booed in Detroit before, so it won't be anything new if it happens again. 
"I don't really care," he said. "Fans have a right to boo and cheer. I'm just trying to win a game for the Toronto Blue Jays." 


"I was called in to pitch when Mark Fidrych couldn't answer the bell OQe day," he said. "That was bacl( when he was The Bird. Forty-five thousand people stood up and booed when they announced that I was going to pitch instead." 
Morris was last seen pitching for the Twins, winning Game 7 of the World Series and the MVP award with a 10-inning shutout against Atlanta. His 1-0 victory capped a year in which Minnesota became the first team to go from last place to champions. 
About one hour after the Toronto-Tigers game starts, the Twins begin the job of trying to become the first World Series champion to repeat since the 1977-78 New York Yankees when they face Milwaukee and its new manager, Phil Garner. 
Scott Erickson, a 20-game winner last season, pitches for Minnesota against Bill Wegman. In Erickson's last two starts in spring training, he gave up 12 earned runs on 17 hits and six walks in 12 innings. 
"The numbers matter a little bit, sure, but I think the main thing is that I feel good," Erickson said. "My motion is still a little bit off, but I think it can be worked out by Monday." 
President Bush will try to bring his best motion to the first game at Oriole Park at Camden Yards. 
The new ballpark in Baltimore, featuring odd dimensions and the city's skyline as a backdrop, already has gotten rave reviews. In fact, so many that Orioles manager Johnny Oates held a team meeting l'ast week, telling his players not to let the publicity about the new building overwhelm them. 
"I don't want to downplay the beauty of the stadium, but nobody's asked me one question about the team since I got to town. If we don't win some games, in two years we'll all have to buy tickets ifwe want to get in here to see a game," Oates said. 
The last four teams to open a new stadium -the Chicago White Sox, Toronto, Minnesota and Montreal -all lost the first games in their new parks. The Orioles, with free agent Rick Sutcliffe pitching, have the right team in town to beat in the Cleveland Indians, who lost a franchise-record 105 games last season. 
A lecture and discussion series to offer us o chance to look ot and 
ask questions about our church and our faith: Where hove we 
come from. where ore we now and where ore we going? 
"TOMORROW" PROFESSOR JOHN CAVADINI AND MRS. NANCY CAVADINI Tuesday, April?, 1992 
Life after Notre Dome: Professor Cavodinl and his wife speak about how to give your best to your family, your parish. your faith 
• 
FACULTY DINING ROOM South Dining Hall 


• 

7:30 p.m. -9:00 p.m. Tuesday, March 24, 31, and April 7, 1992 
COME WITH QUESTIONS! 
0fv11'US Sponsored by Campus Ministry MN5iRY 
Holy Cow! 
page 16 The Observer 
to reach second base until the eighth inning when Matt Terrell 
Baseball 

doubled for the only extra base hit the Broncos would get. 
continued from page 20 
"It was a good win for us," said Murphy. "Westernto the gap scored pinch-runner 
Michigan has a great traditionMike Rooney who replaced Pat in baseball. We've been playing
Leahy on first after Leahy 

great baseball. Today we got awalked. 
'few balls to fall and the pitching Chris Michalak's shut out was was fantastic."
ruined in the ninth when the 

Four runs in the fourth inningBroneos scored ofT reliever Tim iced the Irish's 7-1 win in theKraus on an error. a single, and first game of the doubleheader
a groundout. Michalak raised against Ball State on Saturday

his record to 4-1 with a stellar 

afternoon. The Cardinals'
eight-inning performance. The 

pitcher Eric Jones walked
junior gave up only five hits and Danapilis and Binkiewicz and
two walks while striking out then hit Mee with a pitch to

11ight. lie did not allow a runner load the bases with one out in the fourth. 

Massimino out 

Craig DeSensi singled to score Danapilis and give the Irish a 1­
at Villanova; 

0 advantage. Bautch's hit ricocheted off the pitcher's 
single with two outs. In the glove and the Cards managed to sixth, it was all Counsell as the
Pete Gillen in? 

get DeSensi out at two, but shortstop sent his third home­PHILADELPHIA (API ­
second baseman Curtis Greene run of the season over the right Xavier basketball coach Pete 
tries to turn the double play and field wall bringing home Gillen has been contacted 
threw the ball away. Binkiewicz Layson, who walked, in addition about replacing Hollie 
scored off the fielder's choice to himself to complete the Massimino at Villanova and 
while Mee scored on Greene's scoring. has expressed interest in the 
error. Verduzco's hit was Leahy pitched a complete job, according to a report 
game and allowed only one run Sunday. 
bobbled by the shortstop 
Darrell Betts putting runners on and four hits through seven in­Gillen, a former Villanova 
first and second to set up nings. assistant, in Minneapolis for 
Lisanti's hit and run single "Leahy pitched a great game," the NCAA finals, told The 
which scored Bautch to bring said Murphy. "The first game Philadelphia Inquirer that he 
was good. The second was just has spoken with Villanova 
the score to 4-0 in favor of the 
Irish. one of those things. They hit the athletic director Ted Aceto 
ball where we weren't and we about the job. 
Ball State put one on the 
board in the top of the fifth hit the ball where they were." "There is some interest on 
against winner Pat Leahy (4-2). AI Walania pitched a complete both sides," he said. 
Left-fielder Ken Reed nailed a game in what turned out to be a Aceto confirmed the two 
double to right. Then Cory pitcher's duel in the second have talked. but declined to 
White hit the ball to first pulling game. Walania held the Cards answer other questions, the 
Binkiewicz off the bag. Leahy to five hits and three runs while paper said. 
missed the flip and Reed the Cardinal arsenal of starter Gillen guided Xavier into advanced to third and Bret Scott Archibald, Tony the NCAA tournament six Smith's sacrifice fly to left Christopher, and Steve Niehaus years in a row, but the held the Irish to six hits and
scored Reed. Musketeers were only 15-12 Notre Dame collected another shut out Notre Dame. The last 
run in the fifth when Counsell
this season and weren't time the Irish were shut out was invited to the tournament. doubled and scored on Mee's on April 6 last year when 
Massimino last week left Villanova after 19 years and one national championship to take over a UNLV basketball program that has been successful on the court but plagued by NCAA violations. Villanova was 14­15 this season. 
Gillen was an assistant under Massimino from 1978 to 1980. 
Gillen, who has turned down jobs at Virginia and Notre Dame in the last two years, said he would be interested in getting a Big 

.,:::1
East job. 
"Obviously, the Big East is one of the top three or four conferences in the country and is a step up," he said. 
lie said he hasn't talked with Massimino. 
"I was surprised that Hollie left," he said, "but I think he was a little burnt out. I think he needed a new start." 

• 
SUNDRY, APRIL 26 7:30 PM MORRIS tllllt RUDITORIUM RLL SERTS RESERUED: S19.50 
RURILRBLE RT THE AUDITORIUM BOH OFFICE, American Heart TRRCKS,ORBIT RECORDS, RND WORLD RECORDS 
Association tHRR6E: 284-9190 

Iy:·y ~~ J (1 
'
r-:~ --.. .. 

Arabic at the University of Notre Dame 
• 
It is spoken by over 180 million people in the Middle East and North Africa. 

• 
It is the devotional language of more than one billion Muslims. 

• 
It is the language of a region of the world of crucial international importance. 

• 
It is the ancestral language of more than 5 million Americans. 


Introduction to Modern Arabic MLAR 101 I Fall 1992 MWF 12:15·1 :05 
Dept. of Classical and Oriental Lang. The University of Notre Dame 

Evansville closed down Notre 
Dame 5-0. 

"Walania pitched a great game. He was in total command giving up five hits and no walks, but we can't get shut out." said Murphy. "You have to give credit to them, they didn't walk anyone and made some great catches." 
The Cards got the winning run in a two-run third inning off of three singles and an error and then added the third and final run in the fourth when Dan Lehrman homered off Walania. 
Notre Dame threatened in the fifth when Counsell reached first on a fielder's choice and Danapilis singled to right to put Irish runners on the corners, but Notre Dame could not get them across the plate. 
"We can't have too high ex­pectations," said Murphy. "We are going to lose a few here and there." 
Hopefully, the Irish won't lose one tomorrow when the 
Monday, April 6, 1992 
University of Toledo rolls into town for a single game at Coveleski Stadium (3 p.m.). This will be the first time the Irish will face Toledo during the Murphy era. 
"They are a lot like Ball State and Western Michigan. The Mid-American Conference has some good baseball teams," said Murphy. "But, it will be a 'World Series' game for them. They have everything to gain and nothing to lose by playing us." 
Freshman Craig Allen (0-0, 

9.00) will be on the mound for the Irish while sophomore Tom Price and junior Dave Sinnes will be waiting to relieve Allen if need be. Toledo will definitely be ready to play Notre Dame and will most likely send their best team to meet the Irish. 
"If we play well, we'll win the game," said Murphy. 
Kevin Malloy and Notre Dame sports information contributed to this report. 
Love, Maureen and Molly 



Monday, April 6, 1992 The Observer page 17 
Softball 
continued from page 20 
the Irish finally broke through in the seventh by doing the little things. 
Debbie Boulac led off with a single. Then, pinch-runner Michelle Cline narrowly beat the catcher's throw at second on Lisa Miller's perfectly exe­cuted sacrifice bunt. The high throw sailed into centerfielder, allowing Cline to come home with the game winner. 
The second game against Detroit was just as tight. In the third, freshman Sara Hayes belted 2-0 pitch well over the left-field fence to give the Irish an early 2-0 lead. 
"That homer was as well hit as any I've seen in this park," mused Boulac. It was Hayes' fourth homer on the year, as she went three-for-five in the contest_. 
The Irish held the lead until the seventh, when the Lady Titans broke through for a run. The 3-3 score held through eight, when darkness forced the umpires to postpone the game until Saturday at noon. 

LoVe-FEST 
Come and shed your winter inhibitions 
WVFI in Conjunction with the Hall Presidents Council, the Senior Class and Student Activities Proudly presents a concert on Fieldhouse Mall featuring the 
The delay cost the Irish their intensity. "We didn't come out ready to play on Saturday," admitted Boulac. 
In the tenth, the Lady Titans finally ended the two-hour, fifteen-minute marathon on a fluke play. A liner deflected off Irish pitcher Staci Alford (6-2) into centerfield, scoring two and putting the game out of reach, 5-3. 
Due to the postponement, the Irish elected cancel their non­conference game versus Ohio scheduled for Saturday. After Detroit beat the Irish, they split a pair of 1-0 decisions with conference foe Evansville. 
"[Evansville is] a much im­proved ballclub," said Boulac. "In four conference games, they've only given up four runs; that impressed me." 
With the first taste of inter­conference action, the Evansville coach assured that this year's MCC crown will be up for grabs. 
"I think there's a lot of parity this season in the MCC," said Lewis. "In both games (against Notre Dame). the wins were both on one error here or there." 
It's just a game of inches ... 




LENTEN 
"I thought we would be more competitive in our losses,"
Tennis 
noted Irish head coach Bob Bayliss, "But to win at one and
continued from page 20 
two the way they did took a scored a surprisingly easy great effort. They stepped it up 
victory over Deer, 6-4, 6-1. It when they had to." was a matter of revenge for Will Forsyth beat Dan Coleman, as Deer beat him in Nabedick at three-singles, 6-2, last year's match with the 6-3, and Ron Rosas impressedBadgers. at six-sin s with a 7-5, 6-3 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
David Dilucia teamed with Chuck Coleman to beat Wisconsin, 6-2, 6-1. 

with campus bands, SMEAR and ? 
Tuesday April 7 at 5:30p.m. on the Fieldhouse Mall 
WVFI 

am 640 take time to stop and smell the bands 
no meat 

the rain location is Theodore's (first 500 people) 
win over a powerful Jordan Richman. 
"Our top three (Zurcher, Coleman, and Forsyth) really took on the load and responded against three really good players," noted Irish head coach Bob Bayliss. "And Ron (Rosas) was able to execute by keeping it away from Richman's great forehand; that was the key to the match." 
On Saturday, the Irish faced a talented West Virginia squad and flexed their muscles with a convincing 9-0 victory. The Mountaineers figured to make some noise, as they boasted a top singles player in 42nd­ranked Mark Booras and an excellent doubles team with Rodrigo Gonzalez joining Booras-the nation's 26th­ranked tandem. 
However, DiLucia, Zurcher, and Coleman scored three wins at one, two, and three-singles. First, DiLucia had to fight his way to a tough 4-6, 7-6, 7-6 win over Booras. Booras has been traditionally tough for DiLucia, as he lost 6-4 in the third set of their last match. 
The next matches were a bit 
easier, as Zurcher beat Manolo 
Moure, 6-4, 6-3, and Coleman 
posted a 6-2, 7-6 victory over 
Joran Burgwall. 
Forsyth, North and Wojtalik then picked up victories at four, five and six-singles, and the route was on. 
Forsyth won 6-0, 6-4 over 
Steve Flanagan and North beat 
Mark Nigalen 6-4, 6-2, while 
Wojtalik posted a 6-3, 6-7, 6-4 
win over Rod Stevula. 
DiLucia and Coleman decided 
not to play doubles due to 
DiLucia's tender shoulder, but it 
really did not matter. Zurcher 
and Forsyth, who were once 
among the national rankings, 
beat Booras and Gonzalez's 
replacement, Flanagan, 6-4, 6-4 
to add one more "W" to the 
slate. 
At two-doubles, North teamed 
with sophomore Tad Eckert for 
a 6-3, 6-2 win over Burgwall 
and Steve Dufim. The tandem of 
Wojtalik and Todd Wilson also 
came up with a 6-1, 6-4 victory 
against Moure and Stevula to 
end the perfect match. 
"I was really pleased with our 
performance," said an elated 
Bayliss. 
Bayliss is smiling at the 
moment, but just wait until the 
Irish have to meet up with 
22nd-ranked Ball State in a 
tough match on Wednesday . 
We will see then if the 7th­
ranked Irish can respond to 
another challenge and keep 
their fifth-yea.r coach smiling. 
r--~~.,.~~~--•
I  s.t. ,~3,00  I  
I  I  
:  MAPLE LANE  :  
:  BARBER SHOP  :  
I  I  
II  2112 South Bend Avenue South Bend. IN 46637  II  
I  AppolntrMnts if Desired  I  
I  272-6722  I  

·-----------· 
rand Opening April 3rd 
Rainbow Video WE SPECIALIZE IN: Korean Japanese Chinese Video Tapes Free Membership 
State Road 23 & Ironwood 
Next to 76 Gas Station Mon-Sat 10 am to 8 pm Sun 12 noon to 6 pm 
(219) 273-9545 
----------~ 
page 18 The Observer Monday, April 6, 1992 
ND lax thrashes Denison, 17-5 
.. '• 
, -..·"· ... 
' , ' -..1 .. ~ ....... , 4' -·
·'-' Jl..-~--,1.. :.•~ \; 
.... .._._...................... ~ ; ,<» . ~~ .. 
.• 
?:~}_,. 

The Observer/John Bingham Notre Dame battles Denison at Cartier Field on Saturday. The Irish won big for their fourth victory in a row. 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame laerosse team won its fourth straight game, topping Denison 17-5 Saturday. 
Three players recorded hat tricks for the Irish. Randy Colley, Mike Sullivan, and Brian Mayglothing placed their names three different times in the scoring column, and Sullivan added a team-high two assists. 
The Notre Dame goals came early and often. Sullivan opened the onslaught with a goal under two minutes into the game and three more followed before the end of the first period. 

The second period seemed a repeat of the first. This time Mayglothing started the scor­ing, joining Billy Ahmuty and Steve Manley in the scoring column to raise the Notre Dame halftime lead to 7-3. 
"We were a little impatient at the beginning of the game, but we settled down to start the second half," said Robbie Snyder, who tallied a goal and assisted on another in the win­ning effort. 
The one-sided offensive at­tack continued in the third with Notre Dame scoring five unan­swered goals. The defense was equally impressive in the third period, holding Denison score­less for the full fifteen minutes. 
There was no rest for Denison goalie Marc Jacobson in the fourth period. A Notre Dame unit, filled mostly with reserves, still pelted him with 12 shots, netting five goals. Denison ended a twenty minute scoreless stretch on a goal by Thomas Kavanaugh seven min-
SMC softball makes up St. Francis game 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team travels to Saint Francis in Fort Wayne today to play a double-header that was sched­uled for March 21, but was called because of the weather. 
Currently, Saint Francis is 9-3 overall, 4-0 in the MAlA con­ference and boasts a four game winning streak. 
The Belles are going to have to watch for several players, including senior pitcher Mary Von Burgan. Last year, Von Bargen had a 9-5 record and a 
1.70 ERA. 
Saint Francis will also turn to twins Cary and Kelly McNamara, who play second and first base, respectively. Cary, a junior, batted .380 last year, while Kelly, who is in her first year at Saint Francis, is batting .444 this season. 
Others to watch for include catcher Dawn Knox, who bat­ted .356 last year, Dawn Kiel, a .344 batting shortstop, J.B. Butler, who plays third and batted .444 last year at Nazareth College, and Stacey Piper, a freshman outfielder batting .375. 


For the Belles, who have only played two games, sophomore Staci Bogataj has already stepped forward as a real leader. 
"We beat Saint Francis last year, and if we play like we did in the first game against Hope College, we should win." Bogataj said. 
According to Bogataj. the Belles need a little improvement in fielding, while continuing to hit well. The first four hitting positions are filled by Erin Wachter. Carol Grobner, utes into the period. 
The tight defense and potent offensive attack has combined in the past four games to propel the Irish to 5-3 on the season. 
"Our offense has really bene­fited because we are starting to win face-offs and keep the ball at the offensive end," said Snyder. 
That point was clearly evident against Denison, as Notre Dame grabbed all but five of the 28 face-offs. 
"Also, our defense has been great," commented Snyder. "Our mid-field defense has been great, and we are playing as a team." 
That team play will be on ac­tion Saturday against Mount Saint Mary's, as Notre Dame 
games against Hope, the first three batters contributed two hits each, while Miller added three. 
Pitching will also be key in this game. Freshman Lisa Bright is ready for both games after coming off an impressive showing at Hope. 
Bogataj also noted that the weather should help the Belles. "It was hard to play in the freezing cold last week, but it's supposed to be warmer today, so that shouldn't be a prob­lem." 

Men's track enters big pack in Indianapolis 
By RIAN AKEY 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's track squad, who sent no more than five athletes to each of its early season meets, posted a solid team effort this weekend at the Indiana Intercollegiates. 
Twenty-nine Irish runners earned the team a fifth-place finish out of twenty at Indianapolis. 
Head coach Joe Piane was pleased with his team's per­formance, considering many of Notre Dame's best runners stayed home. 
"In order to prepare for next weekend's Dogwood Relays [in Knoxville, Tn.]. we did not send seven of out best runners," he noted. 
Taking top individual honors for the Irish was co-captain Brian Peppard. The Irish se­nior peppered his competition with a time of 1:55, placing him second in the 800 meters. 
Three Irish runners made a strong impact in the 3000 me­ter results. The trifecta con­sisted of senior Michael Drake finishing in third place, sopho­more Jim Trautmann in fourth and senior Kevin Keegan in fifth. 
In their first meet of the out-

J.R. Meloro 
door season, three other run­ners successfully contributed third-place finishes to the Irish team effort. 
Freshman J.H. Meloro ran the 10,000 meter course in 
31:44. In the 1500 meters, junior J.T. Burke outdistanced all but two competitors by finishing in exactly 4:00. Sophomore David Amitie bounded to a time of 55.2 sec­onds in the 400 meter hurdles. 
Also placing high was sophomore Christopher Lilly, who sprinted to a fourth place finish in the 110 meter high hurdles (15.2 seconds). 
Coach Piane appeared satis­fied with the results of the meet. 
"Overall, the day went rea­sonably well for us," he com­mented. 

American Red Cross + 
seeks its fifth win in a row, and l~EEiEEiEBEB~B~BiB~~~EEIEtiEffJ_j
sixth overall. t 

NO MORE LATE NIGHT 
)OGS DOWN 31 BECfiOSE 
YOOR BIG 
DfiY HfiS 
COME. HAPPY 21st TERRI WELCH 
LOVE. fiLL THE W.O.f.SI 
GET OUT OF THAT LAB AND ENJOY YOURSELF FOR JUST ONE WEEK! 
LOOK FOR SIGNS ALL WEEK 
EG WEEK TREASURE HUNT CLUB: The Department in Charge of Current Events. 

Today 
Monday, April 6, 1992 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
Spend three captivating evenings with the Corleone Family!!! Part I Tuesday April 7, 1992 
Part II Wednesday AprilS, 1992 Part III Thursday April9, 1992 All showings at 7pm in 105 Science Hall, Saint Mary's College Admission: $1 Sponsored by: Popular Culture Group 
Don't Miss It... It'll Be MOBBED!!! 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
!):) 'IClU B\:.LI\:.'1£ IN 1\-1£. DE\/I L ? 'fO'J K~OW, 'fO\J JUST G.~T Thli:. " A S\1\'Rt.t<\£ £.1/ll B£.1\IIG TO A.~IMA.LS A~OO\ 
D£.0\G.T~I> Th -mE W£.'5£ T\.\\I-IGS. 'ltM~A.\ION' COR.R.\)1'\"\0l-1, Ml~ I)~STR.\ICIION C!i 
«;:)Edward Julius 
53 Tree of the birch 13 Infertile
ACROSS 

family 16 Fred Astaire's 1 Dutch philosopher 55 French kings sister 8 Wonder of the world 56 French morning 21 -sign 
locale 58 Unsatisfactory 24 Ward (off) 14 Degree of quality product 26 Drive back 15 Boat race 60 Presidential 29 Taker of 17 Everything counted monogram dictation
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPIN JOHN MONKS ( 2 wds. ) 61 Put to use · 31 Cleaning problem 18 Gave forth 63 Hemophiliac 34 "The Pri saner 19 Prefix: wool 65 Merrymaker of-" 20 Barbara and Sir 66 Molybdenum, e.g. 36 Racer Al or Bobby 
Anthony 67 Disavow again 3B Good-natured 22 Coast 68 Gnawing animals ridicule 23 Ms. Arden, et al. 40 One who scolds 25 Close to (poet.) 41 Fidgety 27 Actor Jannings DOWN 42 Unclad 28 Avian abodes 1 Triangle with 44 Walked on 30 Shoe parts unequal sides 45 Apparent 32 Cakes and ----2 Idle chatter 46 Gobi and Mojave 33 Inferior sub-3 Disease 47 Relative of the 
stitute 4 Insect egg monkey 35 God of the sea 5 Woodwind instrument 49 Organization 37 Swerve 6 Classmate of Dobie component 39 Mr. Connery Gillis 52 like a bathroom 40 Eileen or Walter 7 Eve and Enoch wall 43 On the stock 8 Beforehand bargains 54 Comic strip 
exchange 9 -and haw character 47 "light-horse Harry" 10 Spartan king 57 Shade of green 48 Hatred 11 Early-blooming 59 Exigency 50 Audacity (poet.) 62 Buddhist sect 51 Formerly, formerly 12 Empire or footstool 64 Scottish uncle 
LECTURES 
Monday 

4:15p.m. Paul and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholars Series: Urban Finance Under Siege, "What are the Limits of Government: What are its Obligations?" William Tabb, L:.:li~~:ii.o&;-~{7---------------.. professor, Queens College. Room 122, Hayes-Healy. 
As Nyles left the safari club, his stomach suddenly knotted up. Foolishly, he had ignored the warnings not to park his Land Rover in this part of Tanzania. 
MENU Notre Dame Saint Mary's  CAMPUS Monday 7 p.m. Film, "La Nuit De Varennes." Annenberg Auditorium.  
French Bread Pizza BBQ Ribs Baked Cajun Cod  Chicken Enchiladas Roast Beef Au Jus  9:30 p.m. ditorium.  Film, "Spirit of the Beehive."  Annenberg Au­ 


Admission free. 

7:30 p.m. Hesburgh Program in Public Service lecture series: "Recovering the Dream, A Policy Analyst Looks at Public Health Care Policy." Peter J. Fugiel, Vice President, John Nuveen and Co. 184 Nieuwland Science. 
Tuesday 

12:30 p.m. Kellogg Seminar, "The Great Transformation: Opinions on Capitalism and Democracy in Eastern Europe," Laszio Bruszt, faculty fellow. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Admission free. 

Sports 

page 20 Monday, April 6, 1992 
ROLANDO 
DE AGUIAR 
Cheap Shots 
Youth and experience go head-to-head in NCAA's final battle 
Tonight. all of the other cards are worthless. 
Only one pair of teams remains in the NCAA tournament-college basketball's big show. But Michigan and Duke, each of whom has won five straight tourney games, are a pair of aces. 
Tonight's matchup is a dream that CBS bigwigs used to tell their closest friends about-a ratings bonanza in a rematch of onn of the college basketball season's most-watched overtime thrillers. Now the drnam has come true. 
Youth versus experience. The world's largnst alumni association versus the world's most vocal student section. College basketball's present versus r,ollegn basketball's future. The world versus Christian Laettner. 
Mike Krzyzewski's Duke team staked its claim to the rule of college basketball seven years ago, when Laettner was but a high school sophomore and the Blue Devils were led by forgotten players like Tommy Amaker and Mark Alarie. But Louisville freshman Pervis Ellison upended Duke before it could begin its reign. 
After several failed attempts to claim the throne, Duke proclaimed itself king of 

.. the court only last season, when Laettner single-handedly usurped UNLV's heralded position in one of the most memorable clutch performances in recent NCAA his­tory. Now. after dodging bullets fired by Iowa, Seton Hall, Kentucky and Indiana, Duke is poised to become the first collegiatn basketball .dynasty since John Wooden's UCLA Bruins dominated the sport 20 years ago. While Krzyzewski, Laettner & Co. have finally put Duke on the threshold of dynastydorn after years of frustration, Steve Fisher and five superstar freshmen have jumped right into the Blue Devils' spotlight. By reaching the Final Four, the Fab Fivn (or, as they now prefer, Five Xs) have arrived early, and are portents of college basketball's future-a future which could see Michigan as the UCLA of the '90's, with several fat Wolverine national championship rings on Fisher's fingers by thn turn of the millenium. .luwan Howard, Ray .Jackson, Jimmy King, .Jalen Rose and Chris Webber are the brash new superstars of college basketball; a group which arrived tognther and will start together (Michigan fans hope) for four years at Crisler Arena. They have stolen Duke's thunder with their bald-hnaded, trash-talking, slam­dunking style of play, and have done it swiftly and decisively. All the attention Laettner received last Saturday for hitting the shot which beat Kentucky was 
see CHEAP/page 14 

INSIDE SPORTS 
•Lacrosse 
continues streak see page 18 

•Irish 
men's track in Indy see page 18 

•Belles 
softball travels-to St. Francis see page 18 

•NHL 
negotiations continue 


4
1 
see page 

Irish baseball splits two with Ball State 

By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The fourth inning was the charm for the Irish (13-8) as the Notre Dame baseball team finally got the home season started this weekend with a doubleheader which they split with Ball State (11-14) and a 9-1 win over Western Michigan. 
Yesterday against Western Michigan ( 8-9), Notre Dame jumped out to an early lead in the first inning scoring two runs. After giving up a singles to Dan Bautch and Eric Danapilis and walking Craig Counsell to load the bases, Mustang's starter, Rob Krueger walked Joe Binkiewicz to put Notre Dame's first run on the board. Cory Mee's ground out brought in the second run. 
Notre Dame scored again in the third as Danapilis, who went 4 for 4 in the game, sent his team-leading fourth homerun over the left field wall, but the fireworks came in the fourth inning when the Irish scored four runs. The first three batters reached base off Dave Gould, who replaced Krueger and then Gould committed a throwing error allowing Bob Lisanti to score. Counsell brought Robby Birk and Dan Bautch home with a two-run triple which 
Men's doubles helps to annihilate Wisconsin 
Softball squeaks by three of four MCC opponents 
By JIM VOGL 

Assistant Sports Editor 
It's a game of inches. 
This adage held true in Midwestern Collegiate Conference softball action this weekend at Notre Dame's Alumni field. The 
Speedster Ronny Alvarez and the Irish softball team executed the "littte things" this weekend, beating MCC foes in three of four. 
host Irish squad (17 -13) won three of four, their only loss corning at the hands of Detroit (12-3) in ten innings. 
In Notre Dame's second game against Evansville (8­
18) on Sunday, senior Melissa Linn carne inches away from throwing her second career perfect game. 

The Observer/Jake Peters Freshman left-fielder Paul Failla takes a cut against. Ball State on Saturday. 
careened off the right field wall. the fifth inning with a single and a Counsell scored when Danapilis' long stolen base. He came home a little later drive to center got stuck in the wall for on a wild pitch. Failla also came up big a ground rule double bringing the score in the seventh inning when his double at the end of four innings to 7-0. see BASEBALL/page 16 
Paul Failla, who went 2 for 3, led off 
serve was supposedly not at full strength due to shoulder stiffness that kept him out of the singles competition, and the were facing a team that reached the Midwest Regional Doubles Championship finals a year ago. 
However, a good match-up turned into a whitewash thanks to many powerful forehand blasts from an in­spired Coleman, and some unbelievable gets from DiLucia. 
"We just gelled today," said DiLucia. "This is the best we've played outside all year, and we needed to play well 
The Observer/John Rock 

In the sixth inning, Tricia Czenk hit a dribbler that third-baseman Debbie Boulac couldn't handle; it was the .Aces' base-runner the entire 
game. 

"Melissa came ready to play today," said Irish coach Brian Boulac. 
Linn (7-7), who struck out five in the 1-0 victory, also pitched a rain-shortened five-inning perfect game her sophomore year. 
"Any time a pitcher can throw a no-hitter, the pitches have to be there," commented Aces' coach Gwen Lewis, "and her team behind her played real good defense." 
"Taking nothing away from [Linn], but we don't fear her. I don't think she's a big threat," said Lewis, noting that her team's lack of offensive intensity has made little mistakes more costly. 
"We're in a big hitting slump as far as getting a full­team effort," she said. "We've only made one error in each of these games, but it was a game-losing mistake because we're not getting any hits." 
The Irish, whose bats were equally quiet, took full advantage of Evansville's mistakes. In the fifth inning, Casey McMurray lofted a pop-up into shallow center, where the Aces' Amy Koehne had trouble with the sun and to beat these guys." 
The Wisconsin match was competitive due to excellent play from Badger freshmen Aaron Dubie and Rob Oppenheim. They won both their matches at four and five-singles, with Dubie outlasting the Irish's Tom North 0-6, 6-2, 6-3, and Oppenheim beating Chris Wojtalik 6-0, 6-2. 
The Irish dominated otherwise, with 49th-ranked Andy Zurcher leading the way at one-singles with a 7­5, 6-3 win over Nelson. At two-singles, Coleman, who is also ranked 92nd in singles, 
see TENNIS/page 17 
let it drop. That allowed pinch-runner Lisa Miller to score from third base for the game's only run. 
In the first game against Evansville, the Irish capitalized on Stephanie Spurlock's first inning error that accounted for both runs in the 2-0 victory. The Aces' hurler overthrew first-base, allowing Amy Folsom and Sara Hayes to score. 
Notre Dame sophomore Carrie Miller (4-4) then shut down Evansville on just three hits. 
On Friday, the Irish faced Detroit in a rematch of the 1991 MCC Championships. Despite dropping both regular season games to Detroit, the Irish took the post-season twinbill and won the crown. 
This time, Detroit carne in with a solid 10-1 record and some equally dominating stats. But Miller mowed down the Lady Titans on just two hits, no walks and four strikeouts. 
"Carrie did a great job," said Boulac. "She's had a little trouble adjusting to throwing in the cold weather, but she carne through today." 
Detroit senior Teresa Emery (6-1), who had yet to surrender an earned run in 33 innings this season, proved equally tough. But 
see SOFTBALL/page 17 By JONATHAN JENSEN 

Sports Writer 

Just when you think they're down, they turn it up a notch. 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team, facing a jumbled lineup due to Mark Schmidt's ankle injury and clinging to a 4-2 lead over a scrappy Wisconsin squad, got the win they needed from the 7th-ranked doubles team of David DiLucia and Chuck Coleman. 
The two frustrated the excellent Badgers' team of Brian Nelson and Joey Deer all match long, drubbing 

Chuck Coleman 
them 6-2, 6-1. 
Going in, however, the match did not look to be such a mismatch. DiLucia's 






