
1--'oltt.-~ [;f1p1t: ~ I JI 
~ IDy '/ 8' 
• () JL/ v, 7 .t; ."fF s-Y 
I 
server 


J 
r 
~ 
( 
: 
I 
,,.,'7. 
···:=-... ~,.·· 
VOL. XXV. NO. 54 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Clinton details plan of action 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) -President-elect Clinton on Thursday detailed a crowded blueprint for action including quick reversal of Bush administration abortion policy and creation of more than a half-million jobs in his first year. 
Clinton, in his first formal news conference since the election, also promised his transition and administration would have the strictest ethical guidelines in history. 
Calling on congressional Republicans as well as Democrats to work with him on his busy agenda, he said, ..The clear mandate of this election from the American people was the end of politics as usual and the end of gridlock in Washington and the end of finger pointing and blame." 
Vice President-elect Al Gore stood nearby as Clinton fielded questions at the Old Arkansas Statehouse. 
The Arkansas governor called the news conference to announce 48 additions to his transition team, a mix of political and policy advisers charged with helping Clinton build the first Democratic administration in a dozen years. 
"They reflect my commitment to assembling the 
see POLICY I page 4 

Clinton hopes he will be more accessible 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) -President-elect Clinton said today he hopes to escape a little more often from the security bubble that so often keeps presidents from real people. 
''I'm a real sort of informal person," Clinton told reporters at his first news conference as president-elect. 
Clinton reportedly got his first real lesson this week about the restrictions of his Secret Service protection when, during a family card game, he had to send his mother-in-law out for sandwiches rather than go himself. 
And his daughter, Chelsea, also is now going to school accompanied by Secret Service agents rather than being driven by her baby sitter. 
Clinton said he understood the need for the 
see ACCESS I page 4 

By MARA DIVIS leave the building. They didn't 
News Writer have the elevator code or the 
ID to reach the first floor." 
Citing inconvenience, the lack However, LeMans Hall Direc­
of a need for a new system, and tor Ann Marie Jordan said stu­
the fact that male guests must dents protested more before 
still leave a photo ID at the the system was activated than
3:00p.m. Campus Tour, Main Gate 
hall's front desk, LeMans Hall now.
4:30 p.m. Marching Band Rehearsal, Main Building 
residents said they are dissatis­..There were more problems
7:00 p.m. Pep Rally, J.A.C.C. 
fied with and frustrated by the before it went in than now," she
7:00p.m. Hockey vs.· UI-Chicago, J.A.C.C. 
recently installed card access said. "We might not have 
and security system. agreed with it, but now it's 
With the new system, LeMans here." 
residents must now insert their She added that the system
9:00 a.m. Pregame Tailgate Party, Morris Inn Patio 
student ID cards into has forced visitors to come to
9:00 a.m. NO, SMC, HCC Alumni Hospitality Center 
computerized slots beside all the front desk and ask about
J.A.C.C. ' 
doors which lead to the resi­how to get to the residence
10:00 a.m. Women's Volleyball vs. Duquesne, J.A.C.C. 
dence floors in order to enter floors.
11:30 a.m. Glee Club Concert, J.A.C.C. 
or exit the building's stairwells. "On Saturday during the
11 :30 a.m. Porn Pon Squad and 
Residence Life also issued a game, people were walking
Cheer.leading Performance, Bookstore 
numbered elevator access code. down the hall, pushing doors,
12:00 p.m. Shenan1gans Performance, J.A.C.C. 
Students said these measures trying to get up," she said.
12:00 p.m. Band Con~ert, Main Building 
pose a problem to residents of "They were frustrated. The
1:35 p.m. Football K1ckoff, Notre Dame Stadium 
other halls using facilities such front desk has seen more peo­
5:00 p.m. Vigil Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
as the computer lab and ple coming here, trying to fig­
7:30p.m. Women's Volleyball vs. LaSalle, J.A.C.C. 
writing center in the basement ure out how to get up." of LeMans, as they have no way However, students also of leaving the building other protested the parietals restric­than the tunnels that connect tions. Despite the added safety
6, 7, 8, 9:30, and 11 a.m. Mass, .~acred Heart Crypt 
only some buildings. measures, men must still leave
8, 10, and 11 :45 a.m. Mass, Bas1hca of the Sacred Heart 
"I think it's a good idea, but an ID at the front desk. This is 
10:00 a.m. Women's lnterhall Football Championship 
it's really inconvenient," said because there are a number of
Notre Dame Stadium ' 
junior LeMans resident Melissa men who work in the adminis­
11 :00 a.m. Men's lnterhall Football Championship 
Maki. "I was in the computer trative offices on the first floor
Notre Dame Stadium ' 
lab the other night and some of LeMans Hall, according to students had no idea how to 
see DETEX I page 4 


FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1992 
Panelists call NAFTA agreement inevitable 
By THERESA ALEMAN News Writer 
While panelists in a debate yesterday about NAFTA agreed that a trade agreement is inevitable if the United States 
• Mexican tariffs on U.S. may threaten NAFTA I page 11 
hopes to contend as a world 
power, they were split over 
whether free international 
trade is more important than 
American jobs. 
The North American Free 

Trade Agreement, according to 
one summary written by Ac­
cess, a security information 
service, proposes primarily to 
eliminate tariffs and similar 
trade barriers between the 
U.S., Canada, and Mexico. 
In addition, the agreement seeks to liberalize restrictions on foreign investments and to roll back barriers to trade in services including finance, ad­ve'rtising, insurance, transport, and telecommunications. NAFTA also proposes upgrad­ing the protection of intellectual property rights such as patents and copyrights. 
Mark Kelley, a WNDU-TV news anchor, moderated the five-member debate. 
The panelists included eco­nomics professor Anthony Apostolides of Indiana Univer­sity at South Bend and Ray Larson, president and chairman of Wells Electronics, Inc. 
The panel also included Pat McMahon, executive director of Project Future, an economic 
see NAFTAI page 4 

Professor says countries need constitutions 
By ROB AD"AMS 
News Writer 
The countries of Eastern 

Europe need to draw up 
constitutions to govern their 
peoples, according to Pro­
fessor Graham Walker of the 
University of Pennsylvania. 
Walker, who has recently been on a tour of Eastern Europe researching the countries' situations, lectured Thursday on "Constitutional Theory and the Post­Communist Situation." 
He said having a constitu­tion implies that some pro­visions have been made to protect people from abuse of those in power. 
Walker said Eastern Eu­ropeans "wonder how, in the United States, a constitution can be affiliated with total good." 
People in Eastern Europe, according to Walker, worry that a constitution will take over their society. Walker cited some problems with the "new order," including questions about Hungary's 
see EUROPE I page 4 



page 2 Friday, November 13, 1992
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 

dd football awards for the oddest of years 

This Saturday's game against Penn State is, barring graduate school, my last home football game as a Notre Dame Paul Pearson 

student. Associate News Editor 
It has been a weird 
senior year so far, with ________ the bizarre and the mundane hitting each other head on, like Jerome Bettis smashing through a Nittany Lion defensive line. 
Here, I thought it would be fitting to honor the most outstanding moments of the season (on and especially off the field) with my version o an awards show. The drumroll, please. 
• 
The Aaron Taylor Award as the year's most immovable object goes to that TV time-out referee who decided to stand on the field for up to three minutes during the rain-soaked Purdue game. We thank you for all those sniffles and coughs, fella. 

• 
The Devon McDonald Award for the most sacks in one play goes to the office of Student Affairs for sacking five members of the Irish Guard without the dull drudgery of a fair trial. Is it a wise idea to upset that many men who are that tall at once? 

• 
The Jimmy Johnson Award, given to the person we will miss the least, goes to the Texas billionaire H. Ross Perot (actually, he spent $60 million of his own money campaigning for this award, so I had no choice). 

• 
The Rick Mirer "Long Bomb" Award is given to Pat McCarthy, the man who used the Student Senate to send a censorship message all the way to NBC headquarters in New York. Not even Michael Jordan can top that long-distance play. 

• 
The Wrestler of the Year Award (otherwise known as the "Dick Rosenthal") goes to our very own Lou Holtz for his all-American headlock o a referee who made a heinous non-call during the BYU game. Give 'em hell, Lou. 

• 
The Bo Schembechler Award for mixed signals is presented to all those pro-life people who confused the statement "Let's help the children who are born" with a blanket approval for abortion. 


This confused me at first. You see, it never occurred to me that the pro-life people would be against helping children once they are born. 
• 
The Reggie Brooks "Out of Nowhere" Award is given to our new international members o Major League Baseball, particularly the new Japanese owners of the Seattle Mariners and the Canadian World Series champions (the Blue Jays). Whoulda thought it? 

• 
Finally, the Justice Alan Page Award for outstanding alumni achievement goes to Paul Fisher, ND Class of 1943. His achievement: Surviving four years at Notre Dame and still being capable of writing a piece last Friday in which he accused people who defend the rights of homosexuals of having "an excessive sense o 
Christian charity." (As if such a thing was possible.) 


Anyone who can do that and pass Intro to Theology has pulled off quite a feat. My hat's o to you. 
Enjoy the game, everybody. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 
News Sports Sandy Weigand Rolando De Aguiar Dave Kinney Steve Zavestosky Accent 
Jennifer Guerin Production Terry Edwards Susan Marx Tomi Otey Cheryl Moser Kenya Johnson 
Systems Viewpoint Harry Zembillas J Brian Stalter 
Lab Tech Business John Bingham Pancho Lozano 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
. 
. 


Forecast for noon,. Friday, November13
WEATHER REPORT 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FORECAST 
Cloudy and cold today with a 40 percent chance of scattered snow showers. High in the mid 30s. 
TEMPERATURES 
H  L  
32  17  
59  54  
64  46  
55  45  
73  46  
51  42  
54  51  
75  46  
52  45  
Indianapolis  56  55  
Jerusalem  75  50  
London  48  41  
Los Angeles  75  52  
Madrid  72  46  
Minneapolis  46  29  
Moscow  28  16  
Nashville  65  59  
New York  56  50  
50  43  
59  52  
64  41  
48  47  
50  44  
64  50  
58  47  
-----­ 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Flurry of bombs hits Bogota 
•BOGOTA, Coi.-Nine bombs exploded Wednesday alongside police stations in Medellin and Cali, wounding at least 35 people and killing one. The explosions were part of a wave of violence that has killed 40 people since Saturday. Authorities attribute the violence to leftist rebels and drug traffickers. National police chief Miguel Gomez blamed leftist rebels for the bombings, but the recent arrest of members of the Medellin drug cartel have led others to believe the bombings were ordered by the cartel's boss, Pablo Escobar. 
CAMPUS Notre Dame ROTC unit recognized 


•NOTRE DAME-The Notre Dame Army Reserved Officer Training Corps (ROTC) battalion has been recognized as the best ROTC battalion in the region, Capt. Bryan Selling said. This is the third consecutive year the battalion has been named the top post 
in the 2nd Region, which covers 110 ROTC battalions covering 300 schools "from the Canadian border to the Gulf of Mexico," Selling said. The Notre Dame ROTC unit was chosen by Gen. Joseph Frazar of the national ROTC headquarters on the basis of academic performance, the juniors' performance during their summer training, and 
OF INTEREST 

• 
"Mary the Woman," a lecture on author Mary Wollstonecraft will be presented by Frances Sherwood from the IUSB English department at 12:15 p.m. in the Stapelton Lounge at Saint Mary's. 

• 
The pep rally for ND vs. Penn State will be at 7 p.m. in the J.A.C.C. The guest speaker is John Lujack. Come cheer on the football team at the final pep rally of the year. 

• 
Kurt Vonnegut's "Happy Birthday, Wanda June" will be shown at the Lab Theatre in Washington Hall at 8 


MARKET UPDATE YESTERDAY•s TRADING November 12 
VOLUME IN SHAHES NYSEINDEX 
275,019,040 +0.2!:i to n2.83 


S&P COMPOSITE 
+0.67 to 422.87 
DOW JONES INDUSTHIALS 
-.54 to 3,2:\CJ.7'J 
GOLD 

+S 1.40 to S3:\3.SO oz 
SILVEH 

+5.108 to 53.778 oz 
the organizational skills of the battalion's officers and NCOs, according to Selling. 
Charity to operate stand 
•NOTRE DAME-The ND Friends of St. Jude's Hos­pital will operate a concession stand Saturday from 9 
a.m. to noon before the Penn State football game. The stand will be near the Hesburgh Library, in front of the Center for Social Concerns. Donuts, coffee and hot chocolate will be served. The concession stand is the very first fundraising event for the Notre Dame Friends of St. Jude, a local club which raises funds to help support the research and medical care of children at St. Jude's Hospital in Memphis, Tenn. 
NATION Native Americans observe warriors 
•LITTLE BIG HORN NATIONAL BATTLEFIELD, Mont.-In a ceremony Wednesday, American Indians honored past warriors who defeated Gen. George Armstrong Custer in 1876. The ceremony also recognized the successful battle to persuade Congress to remove Custer's name from that of the battlefield. "Now I feel like I am welcome," said Senator-elect Ben Nighthorse Campbell of Colorado, a Northern Cheyenne whose grandfather fought in the battle. Campbell sponsored the legislation as a member of the House. 
p.m. Admission is free. 
• Masses will be held Saturday at Sacred Heart 30 minutes after the game, at Sacred Heart Crypt at 5:45 
p.m. Alumni, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Keenan and Sorin will have Mass 30 minutes following the game and Planner · will hold Mass at 5:15p.m. 
• A Spanish Mass will be held Sunday at 10:30 a.m. in Breen Phillips Hall Chapel. Padre Richard Warner will preside. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• In 1789: Benjamin Franklin wrote his saying, "In this world 
nothing can be said to be certain, except death and taxes." 
• 
In 1942: President Roosevelt signed a measure lowering the minimum draft age from 21 to 18. 

• 
In 1956: The U.S. Supreme Court struck down laws calling for racial segregation on public buses. 

• 
In 1969: In a speech in Des Moines, Iowa, Vice President Spiro Agnew accused network television news departments of bias and distortion. 

• 
In 1991: The U.S. House of Representatives approved a Senate-passed bill guaranteeing many workers up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave for family emergencies. 


.. 
Friday, November 12, 1992 The Observer page 3 


Annual NO snowball fights have caused injuries 
By BEVIN KOVALIK News Writer 
Student Senate and the Hall Presidents' Council have rec­ognized that the snowball fight that traditionally follows the first snowfall at Notre Dame each year hurts the students themselves, according to Bill Kirk, assistant vice president of Student Affairs. 
Student Affairs has made progress in preventing damage to University property and per­sonal injuries through Student Government's efforts, Kirk said. 
"The purpose of the letter in The Observer written by Pro­fessor O'Hara and Student Body President Greg Butrus was to let the students know that this event is of great concern," Kirk said. 
Past snowball fights have re­sulted in serious injuries, in­cluding a detached retina on one student, while other people have suffered minor abrasions and black eyes, he said. 
A few years ago the stained glass windows in the Dillon Hall chapel were shattered, costing several thousand dollars in damages, according to Greg Butrus, student body president. 
In response, the Uniyersity threatened to withhold match­ing funds from all the dorms and took almost three thousand dollars from the funds to pay for the damages, Butrus said. 
Compared to the past few years there has been a lot less damage to University property, Kirk said. "I think students have come to realize the negative consequences of the snowball fight, and this is a sign of maturity on the students' part," he said. 
Notre Dame Security intends to take photographs and confis­cate students' identification cards if the snowball fight gets out of control, said Chuck Hur­ley, assistant director of Uni­versity security. 
"Although we would like to see the end of the snowball fights, we expect that some students will take part, and that's a shame," Hurley said. 
"I hope that penalties will not be necessary this winter," Kirk said, "but students should be aware that disciplinary action will be enforced should prob­lems occur." 
"We're not going to tell people not to participate, but we will encourage personal safety," said Jason Coyle, HPC co-chair. 
"Students should be aware of the dangers and that they are putting themselves and other people at risk," Butrus added. 

Student Government plans card for access to campus facilities, dorms 
By TRAVIS SMITH News Writer 
Student Government mem­bers are busy planning activi­ties for the upcoming winter months. 
"Our biggest project right now is concerning the 'card,'" Student Body President Greg Butrus said. "This card will serve as identification, provide access to University facilities and dorms, and eliminate cash payments in such places as The Hammes Bookstore and vend­ing machines." 
Student Government is now distributing a questionnaire to measure students' opinions on the "card." Members also are consulting representatives from the library, bookstore, Registrars office, Food Services, and LaFortune. 
In other Student Government 
rr================================================· 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME J.. 
CHRISTMAS ~ 

ARTS& CRAFTS FAIR 
LaFortune Student Center: Lower Lounge, Main Lounge, & Ballroom 
.~~ 
!22'1 
~ 
f!~r.~eee 
~ ? ? ? ~ ? T 
Y~Yyy~~ 
!t!q!q~~1-1-1­
nnnnnn~nn 
FRIDAY,~ 

1VOVEAfBER 131' 8AiW-6PM 
SATURDAY, 

NOVEMBER 141 
JJJJJ!!!!'~~~~\\\~ 
t&li$$liiiiiiitii 

SpofiS{)rtJ/ by tht LilFortune lnformiJiion Desk. For mort lnformDJion ciJJi 219-1121 

8AM-7Pft,f 
Stop by anti get your , Christmas 
1 
. I 
shoppmg 
1 
done early! iI 
I I 
I 

_____j 

business, Butrus announced that "Notre Dame For the Homeless Week" will be from Nov. 14 to 21. Student Gov­ernment has several events planned, including dorm dis­cussions, a speakers' forum, and a handful of fundraising activities. Proceeds will be do­nated to the Center For the Homeless. 
There are also opportunities around campus for students to 
get involved in AIDS awareness, is working to bring "The Butrus said. Most dorm Name's Quilt" to campus. The 
presidents are selling stainless steal bracelets for $2 apiece with the names of AIDS victims printed on them. 
Butrus said Student Govern­ment is also planning a mock AIDS clinic to show students what an actual AIDS patient has to go through when receiving treatment. In addition, Student Government 
Chinese -American Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge 

Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin & HWlan Cuisine 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at .....$3.95 Dinners starting at .....$5.95 Banquet rooms available for up to 200 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 
quilt contains the names of AIDS victims and is big enough to cover Stepan Courts. 
Notre Dame graduate and Wall Street "genius" Paul Tier­ney will kick off the Annual Lecturer's Series on November 18, Butrus said. This series will include many business lectur­ers, and possibly Dave Thomas, the founder of Wendy's. 
If there's a pain in your chest, be a pain in the neck. 
Complain to a doctor. 
$ 

&:~Ameri~a.n Heart ~,Association 
WE'RE FIGHTING Fa< 

---~-x_t_to_R_an_dall_'_s_Inn_)__________::::.::........:...=.:.....,;,_______,1 'OJR LIFE 





Ice Cream 
Now being served at your favorite campus restaurants and 

eateries! 
My Daddy Makes The Best Ice Cream For 
the  
~"'(\NG  ~  
!<.'(:;  of  ~ ~ 

Notre Dame

.... 

---------~ 

r-------------------------,

: Save 50¢ : 
1 when you buy a medium or large cup of frozen 1 1 yogurt. In Original, Nonfat and Sugar Free Nonfat. I I I
1 Offer good only at participating full si<'<'d I Can't Believe It's Yogurt" 1I stores. Coupon not vaild with any other off<'r. Off"r c~pircs 11/19/92. 
1 

I I 
1THE TASTE THAT'S WON THE WORLD OVER.'~ 1 
C~"~ I C'.ll"''t~:~ If• Y~ Ltd. f'nlo!Pdint!'W" U5A 
I 1635EdisonRd. I 
I 271-9s4o I 
(2 blocks east of NV Stadiunr) .J
L. 
'~ CllOWNING ACHIEVEMENT 
AMASTERPIECE \.,.. 
Afilm ofdazzling visual splendor." 
-Dovid Ansen, NEWSWEEK 

"SO MUCJI FUN 11IATD BECOMESAGlJIL1YPlEASURE... ·. 
Acomedy ofcharacter, expertly realized in perf017118nces _.,.~--.·••''""'• that mtltcb any on the screen nou• or in the recent past." -Vincent Canby, 11/E NEW roRK TIMES 
. 
::, 
I 
(HIGHEST RATING) 

"****"
-KA!blmr Ciumll, .Vfl' YORK OOI.Y.\liJS -J-i llmrmi ..\l'POST -Jtd.+falbNs, .,l!JS/ltl' -MtU C/lri, LM ]00.(}' --1Jrr1u ll'lllilmlsoll. PW110Y 
'711E FIRST GREATMOVIE OF 1992!" 
Notre Dame Communication & Theatre 
Cinema at the Snlte 
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 7:00, 9:45 


page 4 The Observer Friday, November 13, 1992 
Policy 
continued from page 1 
most qualified and diverse group of people available, including men and women with broad experience, some of whom served in the campaign and others who are just joining us now as we move toward 

Europe 
continued from page 1 
statute of limitations on murder 
prosecutions, the opening of 
secret police files from the 
"normalization" in 
Czechoslovaleia, and the dis­
tribution of land in Russia. 
Walker said he worries that 

Eastern Europe's new rights 

NAFTA 
continued from page 1 
developing agency, professor Jaime Ros, a Notre Dame eco­nomics profe~sor, and Don Vanett, president of the North Central Council of the A.F.L.­C.I.O. 
Ros contended that the agreement offers both costs and benefits, but that the benefits, in the long run, will by far outweigh the setbacks of the agreement. 
McMahon agreed that NAFTA, in theory, offers long-term economic benefits for all countries involved, but said, "In its present form, NAFTA threatens the American econ­omy with a number of shock waves for blue collar workers. It needs to be more carefully plotted out." 
Larson said, "There can be no pain without some gain," and NAFTA offers organization to the positive international trade which is already taking place. 
Vanett offered an opposing viewpoint, saying, "NAFTA is not about free trade, but something far more sinister. It is about employers and in­vestors increasing foreign in-
Detex 
continued from page 1 
Resident Advisor Tricia Desi­mone. 
"As an RA, we've had to work at the front desk," she said. "We had no idea how to stop everyone coming through. Now, desk workers no longer have to stop men from coming in." 
The idea of an honor parietals system would be an ideal solution to the problem, students said. 
"I wouldn't mind putting up with it if we had an honor sys­tem," said sophomore resident Kate Palzer. "Then we'd have a reason for it. Now I feel like I'm in a prison." 
A detex security system with honors parietals similar to the one in place in the women's dorms at Notre Dame would be a fair compromise, Desimone said. 
"Girls across the street have had security for years," she said. "We just want what they've had." 
If you booze and cruise-you lose. 

Gladieux 
TRAVEL 
Top Ground Gaaner ci '6R 
Ha~ Gone To The Aor 
l~.b GladieuiC 
2H-6636 

governing," Clinton said of his picks. 
The president-elect then an­swered questions on an array of topics, from his general eco­nomic and foreign policy priori­ties to his specific plans to pro­vide jobs and deal with nuclear proliferation, as well as his feel­ings on the heavy security and intense media attention that came with his election. 
could trivialize their aspirations, and thinks moralists would be the best type of people to write consti­tutional text because, "the idea of a constitution provides shape and structure and stands over a country like moral good." 
Walker said the countries in Eastern Europe are heading for some kind of constitution, which he feels is probably the best solution because, "even 
vestment." 

Vanett said that a better agreement can and should be drafted and that NAFTA in its current form offers little more than increased unemployment. 
Aposolides said that NAFTA offers increased international trade and an increased stan­dard of living, but he main­tained that the agreement has adverse effects in that it will undoubtedly cost an uncertain 
Where All Your Collectible Dreams Come True 
The Good Ideas Company Presents ....... . 
Jeckle-Jenson Kunstlerpuppen by European 
Artist Dolls .... American Girl Collection .... 
Gotz Dolls .... Pictura Christmas Cards by 
Lisi. ... New Lines of Artist Bears .... 
Lonestar Bears by Oz.... Chocolate 
Bears by Charpente' .... Garlee 
Muffy Bear (125.00) .... North 
American Bear Gingerbear and 
Alpine outfits .... New Muffy Spring 
catalog to browse through.... 
NOVfEMIBIEAR...~OVIEMfBEAR NOVEM!BlEAR•••~OVIEMBEAR 
Bring in this Ad for $5 off any purchase of $20 or more. 
Hours:

The Good Ideas Company 
Mon-Thurs 10 to 6
On US 31 Between Douglass 
Fri

and Cleveland Rds. 10 to 9 277-6184 Sat 10 to 6 Sun 2 to 5 
''I'm having a wonderful time," Clinton said. "It is an enormous responsibility, but I asked for it, and it's an indul­gence to feel overwhelmed by it. ... I'm just going to give you my best effort every day." 
He spoke quietly and seriously throughout most of the 40­minute, nationally televised question-and-answer session, but took a few occasions to joke 
those who want minimal law should cultivate their standards and draw up a constitution." 
A "constitution" and "constitutional text" are not the same, he said. A constitution is a set of standards by which a certain people decides to live, while constitutional text is how they define those standards. 
"Human beings display an insatiable appetite for justice," said Walker, "and many people 
amount of U.S. jobs. 

When the panel opened to audience questions and com­ments, several members of the audience expressed sentiments that NAFTA threatens many American jobs. 
While panelists in favor of the agreement did not dispute the notion that it will cost Ameri­cans jobs, they maintained that in the long run, better paying, higher quality jobs will result. 
You're Beary Special at The Good ldeas__(;ompany
,r/Q 
and one to angrily denounce the Bush administration search of his State Department passport files during the campaign. 
If he hears of people doing anything like that, he said, "I will fire them the next day." 
Clinton shed little new light on his agenda, but did offer a portrait of his priorities in the economic and foreign policy arenas and a glimpse at some of the steps he is likely to take in his first days as president. 
~ 
· 

\,ACC£'P _: 1 
.-:s..· 
n~ .:..r 
WITH




'D.LILHISAD 
Furc 1ry·s SuR r RIs r: 
t*Jf:} 
· · 
TED~ 


Access 
continued from page 1 
security and praised the Secret Service. 
But he expressed a wish to make himself a little more ac­cessible to citizens, modeled perhaps after the way he and Vice President-elect Gore had contact with voters during the campaign. 




pageS
The Observer 

Friday, November 13, 1992 



Professor: Reason, empathy can reduce social exclusions 
By CORA SANDBERG News Writer 
Social exclusions can be re­duced by impartial reason and empathetic thought, according to Diana Meyers, a philosophy professor at the University of Connecticut, Storrs. 
Meyers' speech at Saint· Mary's Thursday, "Beyond Im­partial Reason: Difference, Empathy and Rights," was ded­icated to Mary Wollstonecraft. Meyers is the author of two books: "Self, Society, and Per­sonal Choice" (1989) and "Inalienable Rights: A Defense" (1986). 
Gender-related exclusions, a major type of social exclusion, was the focus of Mary Woll­stonecraft's book "A Vindication of the Rights of Woman." 
Including Our Famous Texas Nachos Find Your Lost Shaker Of Salt -Jimmy Buffetville-
Social exclusion is the prob­lem of difference, not prejudice, said Meyers. Some differences are socially constructed and are a result of illegitimate use of power, said Meyers. These are the "bad" differences, she continued. 
Another type of difference is self-defined -and deserves re­spect, Meyers said. 
Impartial reason, as proposed by author Martha Minnow, does not promote standards that are across-the-board rules, Meyers said. Rather, impartial reason treats different cases differently. 
Empathetic thought also as­sumes no standard case, it looks at individuals as distinct persons, she said. Empathetic thought assumes difference to be the norm. 
~u Finally Made ltl 
Happy 21st 



Birthday! Love, 
Your Family and Friends 


theatre 

GroHesco 

RESERVED SEATS: $7 STCDEKT &SEt\IOR CITIZEr\ DISCOCKTS ARE AVAILABLE WED.. THL'RS. AKD St:~. TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE LA FORTP\E TICKET OFFICE. .~lasterCard and \'lsa orders call: 239·8128 
wed  nov 18  8:10pm  
thurs  nov 19  8:10pm  
fri  nov 20  8:10pm  
sat  nov 21  8:10pm  
sun  nov 22  3:10pm  

Empathetic thought requires one to change his or her per­spective, continued Meyers. "Dialogue is critical" when people take the moral approach of empathetic thought, she said. 
The speech was sponsored by Saint Mary's College. Friday, the talk "Mary, the Woman," will take place at 12:15 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. The speaker is Frances Sherwood, a profes­sor of the English department at Indiana University, South Bend, and the author of the forthcoming novel of Woll­stonecraft's life, "Vindication." 
NO teams ranked well in computer contest 
By NICK RIOS News Writer 

Two Notre Dame teams ranked well in the annual As­sociation for Computer Ma­chinery (ACM) East Central Re­gional Programming Contest Saturday. 
RE8TAORAJIIT£ 
1/2 Price A~~etizers 
.'rjSL...Jt~c~---~.. 212-a124
?1 ur 1e • _,reei\.. 
Notre Dame's Closest-Neighbor 
2/10 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
Affordable Student Housing 
L..--­


Main & jefferson 
.l:in!ill 

Mon·Th II a.m. • II p.m. Fri-Sar lla.m. • 11 p.m. Nora Franchise• A Family Owned Business Sun 4 p.m.· 9 p.m 
257, 1100 
"This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" Authentic New York 'Pizza 
alzones•Hot and Cold Subs•Strornboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs Dine In • Carry Out $2.00 off any pizza with Studt~nt ID 
c••2  
Jefferson  



~ 
The Observer/Pat McHugh 
Finally, the game 

The owners of this sign, which has been hanging from the third floor of Cavanaugh Hall since September, will final!y see if their wish will come true Saturday when Notre Dame takes on Penn State. 
A team of three Notre Dame students finished twentieth out of 100 tearris in the contest, while another ND team fmished in the top 50. The contest began fifteen years ago, but this is the first time Notre Dame has participated, according to Ray 
. Zepetta, a counselor in the 
Freshman Year of Studies. 
"It was the first time we have ever attended so we did not know what to expect. We tried to adapt to the format as fast as we could," said Angie Adams, a senior math major. 
In the competition, each three-person team was given an envelope with eight pro­gramming problems they had to solve in a limited amount of time. 
"It was not so much the difli­culty of the problems; it was more the short amount of time we had to solve them," that made the contest a challenge, Adams said. 
The team composed of Mike Nahas, Tony Stornetta and Gary Shirart achieved 20th place in the contest by solving three of the eight problems. The team of Adams, James Scott and John Dacosta finished in the top 50, Zepetta said. 
"We knew what we had to do, but finding the solution took us more time than what we thought it would," said Nahas. 
The University of Waterloo took first place, solving five of the eight problems. Other schools taking part in the com­petition included Ohio State, Indiana State and Michigan State Universities. 
"I am very encouraged by a promising start beating teams from high-ranked universities like Purdue and Carnegie Mel­lon. I know we will do better in the future," said Zepetta. 
ThP students that participated were glad they attended what for seniors Adams, Dacosta, Stornetta and Shiart was their only competition. 
"I was surprised how much I enjoyed the competition of it, although I wish I could do it again next year," said Adams. 





Looking for an extraordinary gift from Notre Dame? Well, there's probably someone back home who would love to meet one of your great professors. To make that possible, the Alumni Association has just published the first four programs in the Notre Dame Great Teachers Series. Why? Because the university can offer something exciting for people whose college days are behind them but who haven't forgotten what a difference great teachers made in their lives. So we asked four of ND's outstanding professors to help us throw open a window for the mind and spirit. They responded with specially prepared lectures on classic works --works they have spent their careers studying and teaching. The result is an affordable, accessible, high-quality series of videotape or audiotape programs that each come with the appropriate books and suggested readings. 
Now the folks at home don't have to wonder what you've been up to. You can show them. They may not have told you this, but they would give their right arms to have the freedom and the time that you have to explore what Notre Dame can offer. So give a great gift to someone who's house-bound, career-bound or family-bound. Send them on an adventure this Christmas with a great teacher. 

Images of Man in Shakespeare's Tragedies Professor Paul Rathburn 
Shakespeare has never failed to move anyone who came to him and listened. In his major tragedies -Hamlet, Othello, Macbeth and King Lear-the greatest dramatist and poet in our language holds up a mirror to what is mysterious and uncontrollable in our lives. Paul Rathburn will help you see into that mirror-into Shakespeare's unforgettable and progressive visions of youth, passion, ambition and old age. Some have thought that these disturbing visions simply end in darkness and lack of meaning. Paul proposes that Shakespeare is never that simple, that he wrestled 
to the end with issues of fate and flawed humanity. 

Professor Rathburn holds degrees in both Theology and English and has taught drama at Notre Dame since 1966. He is a Sheedy Award winner for outstanding teaching in Arts and Letters, and our students cannot find enough places in his courses. An expert o'n filmed versions of Shakespeare's plays, he offers invaluable advice on the films you will want to track down and watch to experience the Bard at his most powerful. (Four lectures on videotape plus a text of the four plays.) 

The American Constitution and the People Who Made It Professor Walter F. "Jack" Pratt, Jr. 
In the summer of 1787, a remarkable collection of statesmen gathered to launch the greatest free deliberation about self-government in history. Out of it came the Constitution ofthe United States . The delegates faced an almost impossible task: forging consensus on a dramatically new form of government for the fragmented former colonies. Jack Pratt invites you to look in on their deliberations, recalling who these men were, what initially divided them and what ultimately brought them together. Then he explores the five Supreme Court decisions that have most influenced our interpretation of their work. What was at stake in each constitutional crisis, and why did the justices rule as they did? Not only will you meet great Amerians here, you will come to grips with the essence of our political experience. (Ten lectures on audiotape, plus text of The Federalist Papers and the Constitution.) 
A legal historian, Jack Pratt is Associate Dean of Notre Dame's Law School, and holds his D.Phil in Politics from Oxford and his J.D. from Yale. In 1978-79, he was Law Clerk to Chief Justice Warren E. Burger. His talks on the Constitution have drawn some of the highest ratings at the last two summer Elderhostel series on Notre Dame's campus. 
Dante and Aquinas: The Road to Paradise 
Professor Ralph Mcinerny 
What did the cosmos look like to the two greatest geniuses of the Middle Ages? St. Thomas Aquinas, a Catholic theologian, took on the daunting and controversial task of relating twelve centuries of Christian thought and reflection to the rediscovered works of ancient Greek philosophers. Dante Alighieri, a poet inspired and informed by Aquinas, shaped one of history's most powerful visions of the human condition in The Divine Comedy, a journey through Heaven, Hell and Purgatory. Walk with Ralph Mcinerny as he explores the medieval world, · the ideas of Aquinas and the incomparable poetry of Dante. You will come back from Paradise a different person. 

Ralph Mcinerny is the Michael P. Grace Professor of Medieval Philosophy, Director of the Jacques Maritain Center, and former Director of the Medieval Institute. At Notre Dame since 1955, he is perhaps as well known for his "Father Dowling" mysteries as for his prolific scholarship and sparkling teaching. He has delighted audiences as a guest lecturer at over 50 other colleges and universities. (Ten lectures on audiotape plus the text of Dante's Divine Comedy.) 
Pascal and the Meaning of Life 
Professor Thomas Morris 
Ever wish you had an inside track on the meaning of life? So did Blaise Pascal. A superb scientist and mathematician, Pascal gave us the first calculating machine, the first theory of probability and the first system of public transportation. Then at age 31, famous throughout Europe, he experienced a sudden, startling and thorough conversion of life. For the next eight years until his death, he thought and wrote intensely on the alternatives human beings face as they try to answer (or avoid!) ultimate questions. Tom Morris will introduce you to Pascal's famous Pensees-provocative, eloquent, urgent, deeply personal. Why should anyone wager that there is a God? How far is thinking about God going to get you? What is it that really drives the human heart? How can you know? Get some unexpected and extremely intriguing answers here. (Four lectures on video plus the text of Pascal's Pensees. 

Tom Morris has electrified student audiences ever since he took his Ph.D from Yale and started lecturing at Notre Dame in 1981. Winner of numerous teaching awards, Tom has been featured on The Learning Channel and speaks to rave reviews from adult audiences across the country. He is one of Notre Dame's most popular teachers with both students and alumni groups. 
Quantity Course 
Pascal and the Meaning of Life The Constitution and the People 
,
Who Made It Dante and Aquinas: Road to Paradise 
Book 
Pascal's Pensees 
Federalist Papers & The Constitution 
The Divine Comedy 

Images of Man in Shakespeare's Tragedies 
The Great Tragedies 
$89.00 First course ___ + _courses @ $69.00 each = Total Amount for Courses ___ + Add $5/course for shipping 
---=Total Amount Remitted 

How to Order 
For fastest service, call toll-free 1-800-955-8118 {ask for ext. 20) to put your order on VISA, M/C or American Express. Or mail in this form and make your check payable to Notre Dame Great Teachers Series, c/o Fulfillment Center, 1681 Glens Drive, Florence, KY 41042. 
One course is $89.00, with additional courses only $69.00 each. (This discount applies whether you order different courses or multiple copies of the same course. All courses ordered before Dec. 12 will be shipped in time for Christmas.) 

Ship my order to: 
Name 
Address 
City, State, Zip 

0  Enclosed is my check  
0  Please charge my credit card:  
0  Amex Cl  VISA Cl  M/C  

Credit Card#------­Expiration Date _I_ Signature--------­
Friday, November 13, 1992 The Observer page 7 

SECURITY BEAT 
TUESDAY, NOV.10 

10:55 a.m. A Carroll Hall resident reported that his car had be-en vandalized while 
parted at the Bookstore. The hood of the V$hid$ had several dents In it. 3:48p.m. A visitor to the University re· ported the theft of his watch from the Bookstore. 8!10 p.m. A Howard Han resident reported receMng harassing phone calls. 
8:55 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident reported the theft of his jacket from outside of the weight room at the Rockne Building. 
9:50 p.m. Notre Dame Security traMported an injured Lyon$ Hall resid$nt to the St. 

Medical Center. The victim injured her ankle when she was accidentally knocked over d4ring the Spin Doctors concert. Nov. 10 Food was reported stolen from vending machines In the basement of the SMC library. 
WEDNESDAVt NOV.11 

8:21 a.m. Notre Dame security responded to the report ot a two vehJcfe. accident at the A-19 parking lol No injuries were reported. 
12:21 p.m. Notre Dame Security re­sponded to the report of a two vef\iole aa:ident in the C-1 partllng lot No in}Uriee were reported. 
1:30 p.m. A vitltor to the University re· ported the theft of hiS jacKet from a locker at theJACC. 
1:40 p.m. A Sorin Halt resident reported the theft qf his jeans from the laundromat 
LaFortune. 
3:55 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident reported recelvif'l9 harassif'l9 phone calls 
6:02 p.m. A Huddle employee reported theft of her necklace from Mr gym bag while she was woridng. 
THURSDAY, NOV.12 
8:39 a.m. A lJnlverslty employee repQl18d that an office window had been kiCked In at Haggar Hall. 
9:22 a.m•• ·A Flanner Hall resident reported the theft of his watch and gold braceletfrom hiS unlocked dorm room. 


ST. EDWARD'S 
HALL FORUM 
Professor Fernand Dutile 
Acting Dean, ND Law School 
speaks on 
"HOW TO GET INTO A GOOD LAW SCHOOL" 
Tuesday,November 17 7:00 p.m. 
at St. Edward's Hall 
Jury says the drug Halcion helped to kill 
DALLAS (AP) -A jury Thursday awarded the family of a convicted murderer up to $2.15 million after deciding the sleeping pill Halcion helped the man kill. 
But the actual damage award, which still must be approved by a judge, is likely to be less because the jury split the blame for the killing.among the man, his doctor and Upj ohn Co., maker of the drug. 
The Dallas County jury reached the decision after nearly two days of deliberation in the nation's first civil trial over the drug's alleged side ef­fects. Similar cases against Upjohn, Halcion's maker, are pending around the country. 
"We do disagree with the de­cision ... and we will pursue all available means of recourse," spokeswoman Kaye Bennett said from Upjohn headquarters 
.at Kalamazoo, Mich. 

The lawsuit was filed by William Freeman, former as­sistant police chief of Fort Stockton, Texas, and his family. They said Halcion altered Freeman's personality and caused him to kill his friend Donnie Hazelwood in 1987. He is serving a life prison term for the murder. 
The Food and Drug Adminis­tration has reviewed Halcion several times since it was ap­proved for use in 1982. It has become the most widely pre­scribed sleeping pill in the world and is sold in more than 90 countries. 
But several countries, includ­ing Britain, have banned or re­stricted its use. Public Citizen, the private advocacy group led by Ralph Nader, petitioned the FDA in July to ban it in the United States. 
,-­
O'Connor: 


By KRISTIN MCGOWAN4 .. ~ wid~ly supp6rled. aecording 
to· O'Connor. ··
News Writer Her study indicates tbat tbe · 
Women in all countries con­women surveyed do not , 
sider themselves ..second-class cate the ordination of women 
members"' of a Church that as a means to achieve power 
speaks ..to men. about men. and position. Their motivation 
and of the advancement of is. according to O'Connor, their 
men only.,. said· Sister Francis wish for ..the opportunity to 
O'Connor yesterday at the Hes.. minister to their sisters 
burgh Center. for International brothers·in Cluist... 
Studies. . Many women in her study •· '· .· In a lectu~~f!titl'~d *Only a~so poluJed tp the fact ......·-~.... North American Women Want much ofnunistry ofthe 
Full Participation in the is already carried out .by· ·Church? Third World Catholic women to· reinforce their .view.· . Women Challenge Rome's that women are more than 
Assumption.~ . OfConnor qUalifiE)4 to be ordained. 
ssed the results of her O'Connor. at;tribiUtf~S UU.JU.I:J. 
i'hw•no-u.n 

study en in .· Bra~il."''"'''·"·v·4)rnert:>t~)NJfea:Jt••,,u,.," 
of women iS ··c·J()IDOa'tW,le 
the teaching ofJ~sus. 
In the U.S.• the ordination of women is a focalissue. but even in the Third .World. where women have a · somewhat different understanding of ordination. it 


303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 
~----------------------_j 
L---------------------------------------------------------------­
"If Rome is· ignore North A.m,erf•mn and looking countries in dealing with U!f,A,4L"'• women.~ she a big 
Notre Dame Food Services exec honored 
Special to The Observer 
Dennis Ellis, ·executive chef of Notre Dame Food Services, has been named an honorary fac­ulty member at Michigan State University's School of Hotel, Restaurant and Institutional Management. 
Ellis lectured on English cooking, including its applica­tions and history during Michi­gan State's "Visiting Distin­guished Cher' series. He spoke about his 43-year career in the kitchen, which began at the age of 16 as an English ship's kitchen boy. 
Ellis, who became ND Food Services' head chef in 1987, is a member of the South Bend chapter of the American Culi­nary Federation and serves as chairman of its new appren­ticeship program. He oversees 11 apprentices in 11 restau­rants and country clubs in the South Bend area and teaches a class for the program. 
The English-born Ellis emi­grated to Canada in 1960 and in 1963 began working for sev­eral American hotel companies. 

THE HUDDLE LEPRECHAUN PIZZA COMPANY POST-6AME SPECIAL 
14• PEPPERON I It SRUSA6E PI ZZH 
and 64 oz. PITCHER OF POP FOR THE LOW PRICE OF 
s10.00 

Offer auailable this Saturday only 7-11 pm 


~ ~·---~------------~~----------------------------------------------------~~~~~----~--------­
page 8 The Observer Friday, November 13, 1992 
Honecker on trial for killings of East Germans 

BERLIN (AP) -Former Communist leader Erich Ho­necker went on trial Thursday for the killings of East Germans fleeing to the West. But the ill­ness of an elderly co-defendant forced the court to recess until Monday, demonstrating how difficult the prosecutors' job will be. 
The criminal case is consid­ered the most important in Germany since the Nuremberg war crimes trials against Nazi bosses after World War II. 
t For many Germans, the trial represents a final reckoning 
( 
1 
U.S. treasurer under investigation; l f may have taken company payoffs 
! 
l 
! 
NORCROSS, Ga. (AP) -A company that received $68 million in federal contracts after hiring U.S. Treasurer Catalina Vasquez Villalpando has filed for bankruptcy pro­tection, a newspaper reported today. 
The Atlanta Journal-Consti­tution also reported that Com­munications International Inc. also has lost two government contracts and has fallen behind in its payroll. 
Villalpando, a shareholder and former vice president of the 
Clinton says Jordan has no conflict 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent-elect Clinton said today he sees no potential conflict of interest in his transition chair­man's position as director of a major tobacco company. 
Clinton was asked at a news conference whether transition chairman Vernon Jordan, an influential attorney who is on the board of directors of RJR Nabisco Inc., could have a conflict regarding health policy. 
"I don't think the American people should be concerned about it," Clinton said. He added, however, that he has asked Jordan not to attend any corporate board meetings. 
"Vernon Jordan is my friend ... but Vernon Jordan is not going to pick these people who serve in the major health posi­tions -I am," Clinton said. 
Jordan is best known as the former head of the Urban League. But in recent years the civil rights leader has become an influential Washington lawyer whose clients include major corporations. He also sits on the boards of over a dozen major companies, including RJR Nabisco. 
Clinton's transition team in­

cludes other big guns from the 
corporate lobbying world who, 
if they serve in his administra­
tion, could be forced to give up 
lucrative business for years 
afterward under his strict new 
ethics code. 
Clinton's campaign chair­man, Mickey Kantor, now a member of the transition board, is a corporate lawyer from Los Angeles who has rep­resented Lockheed Corp., Santa Fe Railroad and Occidental Petroleum. 
with the ousted and disgtaced East Berlin regime, which Ho­necker headed from 1971 to 1989. But many others think it serves no purpose. 
Outside the Berlin District Court, former East German po­litical prisoner Rolf Richter hung up a flag from his now­vanished country, with the words "Send Honecker to Bautzen" written on it. Bautzen was the Communists' most notorious prison for political foes and people caught trying to escape. 
About two dozen Honecker 
supporters also gathered out­side the court, where a dozen police vans stood by to prevent trouble. 
"Freedom for Erich Honecker and Erich Mielke," one woman shouted into a megaphone. 
Mielke, one of the six defen­dants, is the 84-year-old former chief of East Germany's dreaded secret police. 
Although his lawyers claim he's deathly ill with liver cancer, the 80-year-old Honecker did not appear frail. He smiled occasionally as he took his place inside the dark, cramped 
company, is the subject of an FBI influence-peddling probe. She has denied any wrongdoing. 
The Norcross-based telecommunications company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection Nov. 2 after more than two dozen lawsuits were filed against it by lenders and suppliers, the newspaper said. 
Meanwhile, it lost this week two government contracts worth $750,000 at Army instal­lations in Virginia. And the newspaper said employees working in Virginia reported they hadn't been paid in four weeks. 
The Journal-Constitution re­ported that Federal Communi­cations Inc. of Posquono, Va., said it had received two con­tracts that earlier had been given to the Georgia company. 
Communications International attorneys declined comment and owner Joseph Profit Sr., former Atlanta Falcons running back, did not return phone calls today. 

closeouts and discontinued lines--many of them name brands. We're locally operated and we're here from now unW Chrtstmas only. 
North Village Mall 52565 US 31/33 North South Bend, IN Mon ... Sat 10 ... 8 Sun Noon ... 5 (219). 211 ... 115o 

~~~~~TH~E=~\ 

~o~ouE PAJllo 
I 

Fe a turing './( Beef, Chicken, Seafood and 
Vegetarian Fondue Entrees 
And Our Famous Flaming Chocolate Dessert 
Welcome ND Parents! Upper Level Old Brewery 100 Center Complex.. 1\tishawaka • Phone: 255-1526 Tuc.-Thur. S-9 p.m. • Fri.-Sat. 5-10 p.m. 
l~esen•ations Appreciated 


courtroom. 
Dressed in a natty blue suit and maroon tie, he posed for photographers and briefly waved to one supporter who gave the Communists' clenched­fist salute. 
"Did you bring enough film along?" Honecker asked one photographer, as three of the shooting victims' relatives sat nearby. 
One, Selestre Malear, wiped tears from his eyes as he waited for the trial to begin. 
Honecker is charged with manslaughter in the deaths of 13 people who tried to escape to West Germany. Nine were killed by mines and booby traps at the border, and four were shot at the Berlin Wall. 
All six defendants are charged with manslaughter, but only Honecker, Mielke and former East German Premier Willi Stoph are charged in all 13 deaths. 
The defendants belonged to the National Defense Council, which supervised the deadly patrols along the East German border and the eastern side of the Berlin Wall. 

A LECTURE BY 
JUDGE STEPHEN M. SCHWEBEL INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE THE HAGUE ON PROFESSONAL CAREERS IN INTERNATIONAL LAW 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16 
12:15 P.M. 
ROOM 220 -LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 

I 


e Tnne ~~Year B~et 
IsA 

Sh9neysAll;You-Care-To-Eat 
ThanksgwmgBuffet. $6.99 
Children wxler 5eat free. Children 5-12 eat for $2.99. Our fabulous Thanksgiving buffet includes all your favorites, like delicious oven-roasted, all-white breast of turkey, cornbread dressing, giblet gra,y, mashed potatoes, yams, peas, glazed ham, 

~:;~r~~l'I~%?r~~~~~~~~~USiiolt·vEVs 
free slice of pumpkin pie! But 11 , ( ~ 
make sure you arrive hungry. • THANKSGIVING BUFFET BEGINS AT 11:00 A.M. BREAKFAST BAR SERVED UNTIL 10:00 A.M. 
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 
Friday, November 13, 1992 The Observer page 9 




Americans' fear of violence is founded 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­The United States leads industrialized nations in murders, sexual assaults and other attacks, and the fear of violence has per­meated American life, the authors of a new study say. 
The specter of violence has degraded American life, left people afraid to walk their neighborhoods at night, put children in danger in school and caused many to barricade themselves behind locked doors, according to a report released Thursday by the National Research Council. 
"The nation's anxiety on the subject of violence is not unfounded. In 1990, more than 23,000 people were homicide victims," the report said, although it noted that murder rates were higher earlier in this century, and higher still in some locations last century. 
"Violent deaths and inci­dents that result in lesser 
• 
. The Bead ·· Workshop• 
. Opening Sale
• 
• 10% off 
11113thru12115i92 
over 1000 different beads

• 
of all shapes and sizes 

• and a full line of supplies 
Thlscoupcnonlltleatheholderlo

• 
I 10% olf on purchases over $S.OO 
injuries are sources of chronic fear and a high level of concern with the seeming inability of public authorities to prevent them," the report said. 
The United States, the study found, is, in general, more violent than other societies. 
"Homicide rates in the United States far exceed those in any other industrialized nation," the report said. "Among 16 industrialized countries surveyed in 1988, the United States had the highest prevalence rates for serious sexual assaults and for all other assaults including threats of physical harm." 
The Observer/Pat McHugh 
Puddle study 

Recent rains give civil engineers and Notre Dame juniors Angie Luzio and Kristie Lala the opportunity to collect data about drainage problems on campus. Both are members of Hall Presidents' Council's Drainage Committee, which plans to submit recommendations on how to solve the problems to the Administration 
this year. 

Military understands the argument, but on gut level still objects to gays 
(AP) -On the intellectual level, people in the military say 
they understand the argument






r·········, 
that homosexuals have the 

2222 Mishawaka Ave. 237·0500 -;:~{i 1 k d l'k ' 
near Ironwood .. OVer 00 e -Ull I e a person S

•L······-·J 
Bring this coupon to Little Professor and receive 
$1 OFF 
a purchase of $5 or more or. .. 


$20FF 
a purchase of $10 or more or... 

$30FF 
a purchase of $15 or more. 
~ ducour-1 ~per cweo..; ..... Vlllid .., .. ~ly·,ne.d ........ ill -.:k ............... wttll oUMr ........ 
~·sliTTLE PROFESSORR 
t~J OOK CENTE . 
We help you [i11d books yvr/11/ove. 
Ironwood Plaza North • near the New Martin's State Road 23 at Irunwood • South Bend 277-4488 • Mon.-Sat.: 10:00-9:00 • Sunday: 10:00-5:00 
JEFF CELIE FORD 
New & Used Cars & Trucks TOYOTA 
609 E. Jefferson Blvd
VOLVO 
P.O. Box 370
MITSUBISHI 



Mishawaka, IN 46545 
(219) 259,1981 ext. 632 
Toll Free, (800) 837 .. 1981 ext. 632 Elkart Area Call (219) 674 ..9926 
• 
buy at $100 over dealer invoice 

•less 
college graduate rebate of $500 •possible $3,000 savings 


~-<~~ right to serve their country. On 
=:~&,:·the gut l.ev~l, many have doubts 
-and anxieties. ~~~: From the rank-and-file to '!'~==~Pentagon brass, opponents say ~homosexuality isn't compatible \fwith military life. An open pol­~~-icy would be divisive, a morale­
~:~~:=:bu. ster, a likely_ source of con­
... fl t d t 1 th t d 
-~-· IC an urmOI • ey COn en · fiJ... Homosexuals have always 
~)been in the military. But it's 
I 
l
been a quiet reality, an Orienta­:f\. ion that could be hiddec or 
color or sex. If trouble cropped up, a soldier or sailor could be moved on or out. 
Not Keith Meinhold. When the military dismissed him after a national television interview in which he disclosed he was gay, the 30-year-old petty officer fought back. So far he has won. 
After winning a judge's order, Meinhold returned to his job Thursday as a sonar instructor at Moffett Naval Air Station near San Francisco pending a decision on the overall constitutionality of a 50-year­old ban on gays in the military. 
"He's gay and proud of it. That's fine. This is America after all," said Ray Austin, 46, who retired last year after 25 years in the Army. "But there's no doubt about it. It's a problem and it's going to get bigger if they keep letting them in." 

They will. President-elect Clinton said this week he will end the ban. 
Austin, who retired as a mas­ter sergeant and lives in the military community of Hamp­ton, Va., said the topic is hot. But there is no debate among his friends. They do not equiv­ocate: "We're 100 percent against it." 
LAS VEGAS NIGHT 
{•.·l·y~ 
ST. JOSEPH HIGH
....... ..... ~ 
SCHOOL GYM 
I. 
CoRNER of Bus. ~ 1 ANd ANGElA FRidAy, NovEMbER 1 J, 1992 
RAfflE,REfREsHMENrs.-FuN MusT BE 21 A SJH BENEfiT 
~"' EsJ:l ~~ ~1)i Spanish Mass ~ 
domingo, 15 de Noviembre de 1992 
10:30 a.m. Breen-Phillips Chapel 

Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 
Ce le brante Padre Richard V. Warner, c.s.c.. 
-0J'v1PUS MNISW' 


r 
t 
\ 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

page 10 The Observer Friday, November 13,1992 
I am writing to express my surprise and frustration following the two-page advertisement in the Nov. 6 edition of the Observer entitled CONSIDERATIONS... ANOTHER PERSPECTIVE and the outcry against anti­Semitism and abortion in the Viewpoint pages of the following edition. I only feel this necessary because I fear that the advertisement encourages violently harmful ideas which are based on principles that the aforementioned outcry suggests that your readership finds inappropriate. 
Paul A. Fisher's advertisement displays a thorough and commendable knowledge of Biblical text. If his purpose is to demonstrate that during the original writing of the Biblical canon the Judea-Christian religion took a firm stance against homosexuality, and that the tradition has generally upheld this stance, then I can have no argument with him. In fact, I must praise him for directing the readers of the Observer to relevant passages of the Bible. In my experience, many of my friends at Notre Dame, especially those raised in the Catholic tradition, are not as familiar with their holiest text as they ought to be. Unfortunately, it would be shockingly easy to conclude from Mr. Fisher-s advertisement that certain actions and beliefs are obligatory for anyone who claims the name of Christian -actions and beliefs which should be forcefully rebuked by any moral person. 
These potentially dangerous consequences result from inadequate, although I am certain unintentionally so, exegesis on Mr. Fisher's part. His first reference, Genesis 19:5, refers to the first version of the story of Sodom and Gomorrah which we find in the Pentateuch. The sin of the inhabitants of Sodom does indeed, as Mr. Fisher alleges, "involve men having carnal relations with other men." The particular detail that the threatened sexual relations occur between people of the same sex, however, is unimportant. Consider the passage in its entirety (Genesis 19:1-11): 
The two angels came to Sodom in the evening, and Lot was sitting in the gateway of Sodom. When Lot saw them, he rose to meet them, and bowed down with his face to the ground. He said, "Please, my lords, turn aside to your servant's house and spend the night, and wash your feet; then you can rise early and go on your way." They said, "No; we will spend the night in the square. " But he urged them strongly; so they turned aside to him and entered his house; and he made them a feast, and baked unleavened bread, and they ate. But before they lay down. the men of the city, the men of Sodom, both young and old, all the people to the last man, surrounded the house; and they called to Lot, "Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us, so that we may know them. n Lot went out of the door to the men, and said, "I beg you, my brothers. do not act so wickedly. Look, I have two daughters who have not known a man; let me bring them out to you, and do to them as you please; only do nothing to these men, for they have come under the shelter of my roof." But they replied, "Stand back!" And they said, "This fellow came here as an alien. and he would play the judge! Now we will deal worse with you than with them. " Then they pressed hard against the man Lot, and came near the door to break it down. But the men inside reached out their hands, and brought Lot into the house with them, and shut the door. And they struck with blindness the men who were at the door ofthe house, both small and great, so that they were unable to find the door. 
The sin of the Sodomites is clearly not homosexuality, but violation of the sacred duty held by a host to a guest. This interpretation is further corroborated by the second, nearly identical, version of the story found at Judges 19:16-30. Even supposing that Mr. Fisher is correct in his interpretation, proper exegesis demands that we take the writings of the Bible in their context. Are we blindly to follow the stories and tales of the Old Testament for our modern sexual mores? Lot, the paradigm of decency, offers to submit his virgin daughters to forcible rape and battery. Surely this is not a recommendation for ethical behavior. Other stories from the Old Testament, if treated in Mr. Fisher's manner, would counsel us to take multiple wives (Genesis 29), seduce our father if he will not let us marry (Genesis 19), avoid touching our unclean wives after birth for several weeks, especially if the child was a daughter (Leviticus 12), and cast out our wives and children if they do not belong to our chosen race (Nehemiah 13). Even my most fundamentalist, inerrantist acquaintances would not espouse such views as these drawn directly, out of context, from Scripture. 
Mr. Fisher might respond that the abhorrence of homosexuality is not specific to Hebraic culture, but is universally condemned, giving us good reason to consider the Old Testament view to be still binding on moral agents today. Even supposing this glaring inaccuracy to be true, what does the Old Testament clearly instruct? Homosexuals, as Mr. Fisher accurately cites, are in no uncertain terms an abomination to God and must be put to death. To maintain otherwise would be to violate the terms of the papal Encyclical Inimica Vis (1892}, cited by Mr. Fisher at the conclusion of his argument. There can be no clemency, I am sure, for those who make God "vomit." Not so long ago, Christian doctrine and an uncharitable interpretation of the Scripture led many well-meaning Christians to maintain that dark-skinned Africans and all their descendants were condemned by God to be slaves. Does Mr. Fisher really identify with this kind of unthinking bigotry? Do good Catholics truly have a divinely proclaimed moral obligation to ostracize and kill homosexual people on the grounds that they fall in love with people of the same sex? I should hope not. 
The difficulty with trying to infer sexual ethics from the Old Testament comes from the fact that too many of their concepts do not accurately translate into ours. The writers of the Torah, Nebiim, and Kethubim, the sources of our modern canon, had no concept of homosexuality as an act of love or as the result of forces, inborn or learned, beyond one's control. For them, homosexuality could only be understood in terms of violent rape in the context of a deliberate choice to inflict harm. This behavior, which became attached to the term "sodomyn and served as the source for nearly all other Scriptural references against homosexuality, certainly deserves everyone's condemnation. Surely, though, no one would seriously and rationally conclude that stable monogamous homosexual couples who vote, pay taxes, give to charity, and raise well-adjusted, tolerant children deserve only ostracism and death, whether one considers such a social structure evil or not. 
It is interesting that with the exception of the Letter of Jude, all of Mr. Fisher's New Testament references which condemn homosexuality come from St. Paul. Like the writers of the Pentateuch, Paul makes many decrees which almost no one today feels obliged to observe. Like the commandments of God in Leviticus concerning the ritual purification of lepers, Paul's commandments in First Corinthians concerning proper hairstyles do not morally bind us. With respect to sexual morality, it amazes me that one with such insight on charity and tolerance for both Roman and Jewish customs as Paul should be so intolerant regarding homosexual Christians. Perhaps he was thinking only of the professional pagan prostitutes, the catamites, or perhaps the Old Testament tradition of violent and evil sodomites clouded his judgment. 

Perhaps his intolerance is a testament to the limitations and fallibility of even the greatest of saints. Or, perhaps, just possibly, he was right, and homosexuals are disgusting perverts whom no decent person should 
countenance. 

If this were the case, I can only imagine that the truly Christlike response to homosexuality would be not to ostracize, but to embrace the wicked; not to slaughter and malign, but to understand and to forgive. Mr. Fisher suggests that Christian tolerance to homosexuality is "caused by an excessive sense of Christian charity." I was not aware that Christian charity knew limits and that one could be too excessive in one's imitation of Christ. If Mr. Fisher is correct, then there is no place in Christendom for lesbians or gay men regardless of their piety or abstinence, and are like the fig tree Christ cursed because it would not bear fruit. I prefer to think that the Jesus I encounter in the Gospels, the one who came to redeem our sinful natures, would be less legalistic in His interpretation of Old Testament law and more accommodating of those people society sees fit to reject. Christian grace is richer than the literal legalism of the Pharisees and the particular needs of a small but faithful first-century Near Eastern flock struggling for credence, recognition, and survival, and it would behoove all thoughtful Christians to realize this fact. 
Mr. Fisher might respond that my charge that Paul's opinions were culturally biased are disproven by his sociological data. However, his reference to the allegedly "historical" facts of homosexuality, drawn from Father Malloy's book, are neither accurate nor relevant. Some cultures in the world do in fact "accept homosexuality as a normal or desirable behavior pattern." To name just a few, the Sambia culture of New Guinea incorporates sexual activity between males as part of their normal passage into adulthood. A large number of Native American cultures included the institution of the female or male berdache, in which homosexuals performed a privileged, shamanlike function. In Western culture, Denmark legalized homosexual . marriage several years ago. Whether or not homosexuality is caused by nature or nurture or a critical combination of both is a question whose answer is by no means as decided as he implies. Regardless of its genesis, however, Mr. Fisher seems to agree with the notion that one's homosexuality is, after a certain age, something which is largely beyond one's control, and never part of one's personal choice. For these individuals, Mr. Fisher seems to leave no option but death. Perhaps it is not surprising that one out of three teenage suicides in this culture is a homosexual youth, if Christian charity can find no better role for them. 
Consider Mr. Fisher's, and Father Malloy's, all too common summary of the "homosexual lifestyle": it produces no children, it destroys society by destroying the family, it cannot be as mutually enriching as a relationship between a woman and a man, it is "a deliberate pursuit ·of sexual pleasure in the absence of a stable framework for mutual growth and sharing," and it is "irreconcilable with the Christian way of life." I confess I do not know for certain what is meant by a "homosexual lifestyle." I generally think of a lifestyle as being comprised of all of the enduring facets of a life, and have no inkling what the phrase "heterosexual lifestyle" demarcates. Perhaps "homosexual lifestyle" refers to engaging in homosexual behavior on the basis of a homosexual orientation. In this case, Mr. Fisher's characterization of homosexuality is not only uncharitable but highly inaccurate by his own terminology. 
Let us consider what Mr. Fisher and Father Malloy consider the "most positive expression" of homosexuality: the stable, presumably monogamous couple. Any reasonable definition of Ufamily" which can include nuclear families, extended families, single-parent families and heterosexual adoptive parents should include our homosexual couple. While procreation is of course impossible, that fact alone no longer compels good Christians to challenge the validity of the marriage of two octogenarians, or of a sterile couple. Neither ought inability to reproduce condemn a stable social and economic unit to charges of attacking the family. As for Malloy's contention that this couple is a sexually hedonistic pair without stability, we are presently entertaining his notion of a stable couple. The pursuit of sexual pleasure, however, is so strong and inevitable a motivation that St. Paul had to make allowances for it by permitting the institution of Christian marriage, although he would have preferred universal chastity. The existence of Christian marriage ought, then, to guarantee that the pursuit of sexual pleasure is not in itself "irreconcilable with the Christian way of life." 
Although none of these characterizations of the "homosexual lifestyle" appear both relevant to our stable couple and inherently irreconcilable with living as a Christian, perhaps Father Malloy is right, and even what he terms "the most positive expression" of homosexuality is spiritually and socially harmful. What options remain for the hapless homosexual? Psychological "cures" for homosexuality have a shockingly low success rate and only the poorest of research suggests that the "cure" is not temporary brainwashing. Other sexual behavior must surely be more sinful than the most positive expression of homosexuality. Abstinence, if we are to be consistent, is not possible for the person of true homosexual orientation: every time a lesbian turns her head or lets her thoughts wander, she is acting on her homosexuality. Let us make no mistake about it: it is these small behaviors which convince one of one's sexual orientation, no matter what alignment. This leaves one option, the option espoused by a literal reading of the Scriptures and apparently by Mr. -Fisher: death. 
I refuse to believe that good Christians, or even rational moral agents, will consent in good conscience to this option. 
Fortunately, there is another option. Mr. Fisher, having graduated in 1943, might not be as familiar as others with a certain event of the 1960's known as Vatican II. Mr. Fisher is correct in saying that "Catholics have always been taught to follow the Magisterial teachings of the Church." However, Catholics are absolutely bound to believe only those statements which the Pope makes ex cathedra, none of which pertain to homosexuality. In fact, in Vatican II it was clearly articulated that in all other cases, a Catholic is obliged to follow her conscience. If the consciences of the Observer's readers tell them that anti-Semitism calls for quick and fervent denunciation, then they might also dictate that espousing the death penalty for homosexuals does as well. If a large percentage of the Observer's readers believe that the killing of a human who has little ability to plead for its own life deserves public outcry, then so ought the recommendation that homosexuals, who dare not speak on their own behalf, be killed. If Father Malloy believes, as he implies in his letter to the editor, that "hate literature" which attacks minorities is unacceptable, if he believes that events like the Holocaust (which involved the calculated labeling, incarceration, and death of gay men as well as Jews and several other groups) merit outrage, and if he believes that "bigotry and hate" are "anathema," then perhaps he should object to his monograph being used to support the equally oppressive hate literature of Mr. Fisher. 
Rick Dechance Fischer Graduate Residences 




Business 

Friday, November 13, 1992 page 11 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 


IITOKYO ~Japan•s tratl:'~~lus shot up 51 percent in October compared with a year ago. pusbing tbe surplus for the first 10 months of tbe year above the record for an entire year. the Finance Ministry said today. Economists attributed the trend, a growing irritation to Japan's trading partners, to weakening domestic deiQ:and due to an economic slowdown and the stronger value o the yen. which increases the dollar vah.ie o exports. Exports that passed through customs in October exceeded imports by $10.89 billion, up from $7.20 billion in October 1991. Those figures were not adjusted for seasonal factors. +' 


IIWASHINGTQN -The number of Ameri­cans filing new claims for jobl~ss benefits fell by 5,000 in late October to the lowest level in more than two years, the government .re­ported today, The Labor Department said first-time applications fot unemployment insurance totaled 355,.000 during the week ended Oct 31. down from 360;000 during the previous week. lt was the lowest since claims totaled 354,000 during the week ended Aug. 
4. 1990, at the beginning (){the recession. Claims had reached a l*~Gession big~ Q, 530,000 during the week ended March 23, 1991. The nwnber'Of weekly applications bas remained below 400.000 since it fell from 424,000 to 399.000 during the week ended S~pt. 26. 
::;:r:•· 
•MIN"'E4POLIS -. ,M~t~t'than l.OO() world agricultural leader$ if.'ttl ex.peete~ .tn gather at tbe University Qfi<N{innesota Jil' summer for follow-up discussions on issues raised at this year's Earth Summit in Brazil. United Nations officials said. The global agriculturalconference is ~~..beduled from June 22·26. in trf~pneapoU~~.J.~eal spons~rs
said. Whettrthe Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro adjourned in Ju:ne. agriculture was one of several issues targeted for follow·up conferences, said Noel Brown. regional director for the U.N.. Environment Program in New York. One chapter in the agenda is a plan for promoting sustainable agriculture and rural development. 

Group hopes to simplify policy ..NDIANAPOLIS -A bipartisan coalition or business and labor said Thursday it hopes to improve understanding of state tax polic during the 1993 General As~~mbly's fi$CA1 debates. The Indiana Tax Eqtllty Coalition hopes to provide objective analyses of tax bills introduced in the 1993 session. The group's members said they are convinced that, given the fragile state of Indiana's finances, tax issues are bound to be dis­cussed. "We believe quite firmly that fiscal pressures are mounting on Indiana. and that there will be significant difficulties in balancing the budget:• sai~ David Reed. director ofa tax an is center:r w,;;;gc 
Mortgage rates could decline again 

SAN DIEGO (AP) -Savings tion on Wednesday. and loan executives and If the new president wants to economists say mortgage see rates stabilize or even rates could start declining edge down, he must couple again if President-elect Clin-any effort to stimulate eco­ton proves to financial mar-nomic growth with a credible kets he isn't going to enlarge plan to reduce the deficit, they the budget deficit. said. 
Since early September, when That's essential to prevent average interest on 30-year an increase in interest rates fixed-rate mortgages hit a 19-from offsetting the economic year low of 7.84 percent, rates effect of any stimulus from in­have jumped up by nearly haif creased government spending a percentage point. or tax cuts, they said. 
That's a reflection of the fi-Martin Regalia, chief nancial markets' nervousness economist of the trade group, over what Clinton might do, said he believed Clinton would said executives and others at-resist calls from liberal tending the final session of the Democrats and keep his eco­Savings & Community nomic package relatively mod­Bankers of America conven-erate. 
Clinton has savers and investors worried about proposed revision of tax rules 
families with adjusted gross incomes of $200,000 or more, and single filers at $150,000 and up. 
At less exalted levels, where there has been talk of tax cuts, advisers are taking a cautious view right now. "Any tax cuts proposed by the Clinton administration are likely to be limited to lower-and some middle-income families," C&L says. 
"To date, he has proposed tax relief for working families with children; an expansion of the earned income tax credit. and new 'individual develop­ment accounts' for low-income persons saving for education, home ownership or other select purposes." 
Among its secondary effects. the tax­bracket shakeup has been seen as a possible boon to the municipal bond market by creating extra demand for the tax-exempt income these bonds provide. 
Some analysts caution against making too much of this prospect. Under Clinton, they say, the supply of municipal bonds also may well in­crease. 
But its impact already is being felt. Among brokerage-firm branch managers recently surveyed by the Putnam Cos., a Boston investment­management firm, "56 percent ex­

Still, the experts agree it is a solid bet greater bottom-line value. pressed concern to expect that Clinton will urge, and The marginal-rate increases Clinton increase under Congress will pass, increases in the top has advocated would apply only to ministration."  that taxes the Clinton  will ad­ 
Board changes slated for Ford Mexico  
(AP) -Ford Motor Co. was expected has said he will retire sometime in to identify today the executive team 1993, was not expected to make his angersthat would lead the No.2 automaker retirement date public.  
until at least the turn of the century, Poling, 67, may want to stay on according to industry sources. through next summer's critical ranchers  

WASHINGTON (AP) -Mexico has imposed tariffs on U.S. cattle and beef imports, infuriating American ranchers who already were nervous about the proposed North American free-trade agreement. 
The tariffs, which are higher than existing U.S. tariffs on Mexican meat, took effect Tuesday. They would be eliminated if Congress ratifies the free-trade agreement negotiated by the Bush administration this year. 
"Trade is a two-way street and the beef cattle industries in both countries have benefited enormously to date. However, this recent tariff action is contradictory and unacceptable," said Jimme Wilson, president of the National Cattlemen's Association. 
Mexican ranchers apparently were pressuring for the tariff because of their country's high feed costs and rising beef imports, said Alisa Harrison, a spokeswoman for the cattleman's group. 
The association has taken no position on the trade agreement, known as NAFTA. but some ranchers say the pact could allow other countries to send beef into the United States through Mexico. 
The Mexican Embassy had no immediate comment on the tariff today. 
The Bush administration should demand the tariff's removal, said Sen. Tom Daschle, D-S.D. 

"This outrageous action by the Mexican government shows that it is not committed to fair trade with the United States," Daschle said...Mexico must be made to understand that this action makes it very difficult to win congressional approval for NAFTA." 
The tariff is 15 percent on live cattle, 20 percent on fresh beef, and 25 percent on frozen beef. 
NEW YORK (AP) -Though any formal action by the White House and Congress won't come until next year, many savers and investors already have started revamping their plans to adjust for tax changes proposed by President-elect Clinton. 
For one thing, financial advisers are looking at the likelihood of higher marginal income-tax rates for upper­income individuals and families ­perhaps taking effect as early as Jan. 1. 
They also are considering what impact, if"any, revision of the tax rules is likely to have on investments that produce capital gains or interest that is exempt from income tax. 
"For businesses and individuals alike, the incoming Clinton presidency is fraught with tax implications," observes the accounting firm of Coopers & Lybrand. 
Like other advisers, Coopers & Lybrand cautions that whatever specific changes are made in the rules will depend on several unknowns, including refinement of the basic ideas by Clinton and his advisers, and the preferences of a Congress peopled with many new faces. 
So decisions now have to be made on the basis of prospects and probabilities rather than hard information. 
Ford directors were to announce the changes as part of their regular board meeting at the company's Dearborn, Mich. headquarters. 
The changes, including the installation of Alexander Trotman as president of the Ford Worldwide Automotive Group, have been anticipated for several months, but Ford has kept its plans and the timing secret. Trotman also is expected to be given a board seat, according to an industry analyst informed of the decision who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The board also was expected to name Allan Gilmour and Louis Ross as vice chairmen of the board, said a person familiar with the decision who also asked not to be identified. 
Ford president Phillip Benton, 63, was expected to announce his retirement, effective at the end of the year. However, chairman and chief executive officer Harold Poling, who 
If that happens, mortgage rates, which hit a four-month high of 8.29 percent last week according to the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp., could fall as low as 7.5 percent or 7.25 percent by the middle of next year, he said. If not, they could shoot up over 9 percent, he said. 
'I think Clinton's a pretty sharp guy, and I think his ad­visers are pretty sharp," Re­galia said. "They have a guy with a mandate. and they don't want to mess it up by doing something stupid that causes financial markets to react badly. 
"If they do this one right, 
·. ,#;
t
·. 
tax brackets, which could have ripple effects for anyone with money to manage. 
"Although the inauguration is not until Jan. 20, these tax increases could take effect at the beginning of the 1993 tax year," Coopers & Lybrand ob­serves. 
Accordingly, planners are advising their high-income customers to consider accelerating income into 1992, where possible, and perhaps to postpone tax deductions into 1993, when they will presumably have a 
national contract talks with the United Auto Workers, according to people close to Ford. 
Ford employs about 7,000 people in Indiana at plants in Connersville, Indianapolis and Bedford. 
It was unclear whether anyone would be named to succeed Benton at today's meeting. However, the promotions rep­resent what was expected to be the final positioning of top executives in anticipation of Poling's retirement. 
It is widely expected that Gilmour, whose background is in finance. will succeed Poling as chairman. He was passed over for the chairman and chief executive jobs in 1990 when the board chose Poling, then Ford's president, to succeed the retiring Donald Petersen. 
Trotman, 59, a native of Britain, is expected to become chief executive officer when Poling retires. Trotman has been executive vice president in charge of Ford's North American operations. 
they could be looking at a fairly long run of a reasonably good economy. But if they mess this one up, it could be a nightmare four years." 
In a survey by the trade group, 500 S&L executives seem to be modestly optimistic about mortgage-rate prospects. Only 10 percent said they expected a substan­tial increase over the next six months. Seventy-one percent anticipate a moderate in­crease of 1 percentage point or less. An additional 16 per­cent expect no change in rates and 3 percent see a modest decrease of less than 1 per­centage point. 

----~--------------~----------------------------.---------------------------------------~----.. 
Viewpoint 
Friday, November 13, 1992
page 12 

The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 

1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ••...••....•....•.•... David Kinney Advertising Manager •...••..Mike Hobbes VIewpoint Editor ••••.••••..•••••••Joe Moody Ad Design Manager •.••.•Kevin Hardman Sports Editor •.........•.. Michael Scrudato Production Manager .•••..•••Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor •••••••.•••.Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager ••••••••••••••Patrick Barth Photo Edltor .••••...•••Marguerite Schropp OTS Director •....••••..••...•••..Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller•••..••••.•••••.•••....•David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 


LEnERS TO THE EDITOR 



Petition for women's resource center is drafted 
Dear Editor: campuses to overwhelming bring to campus that isn't al­the University of Notre Dame ofthese various groups. 
Many members of the Notre success. Saint Mary's College, at ready provided by the Counsel­will be circulated during the Such a center, consisting of a Dame community can still re­the initiative of two senior ing Center or the Center for remainder of this semester. The single office. would provide member a time when only students last year, now has a Social Concerns. text of the petition follows. women with information on males attended class under the Women's Alliance which helps The answer is that while events and issues of particular Dome. bring together all the Saint these centers serve essential Please show your support. If interest to women. 
Female students were first Mary's groups related to functions at Notre Dame, they you are interested in sharing admitted to the undergraduate women's issues. were never intended to carry and working toward this vision, Academic efforts would in­programs 20 years ago this Nearby Kalamazoo College the flag for half the student contact the GSU Women's Re­clude lectures, films, confer­year. Since 1972, the proportion recently opened an entirely population, nor should they be source Committee, the Women's ences. and a calendar of of women has increased student-run office that operates asked to. Concerns Committee, or any events; and nonacademic steadily, so that they now rep­a crisis hotline in addition to Concerns relating to women other group on campus that aspects would encompass a resent almost half of the stu­providing sexual assault cover an incredibly wide range addresses itself to women's support network, sexual as­dent body. awareness training and main­of topics including sexual as­issues. sault awareness, University 
We cannot ignore the fact that taining a library for anyone's sault, health, support groups, policies and procedures. admitting women as students at use. religion, minority and interna­PETITION FOR WOMEN'S women's health, minority and Notre Dame has changed and Given enough student, faculty, tional women, University poli­RESOURCE CENTER international women's issues, continues to change the and administrative support, an cies, and changing gender roles. women and religion. and other University in countless ways. institution the size of Notre No office or organization It is becoming increasingly crucial matters. 
Any past or present resident Dame could certainly pull off currently exists here which is apparent that the University of of Pangborn knows that. All what these smaller schools have prepared to address all of these Notre Dame could benefit from indications are that the changes achieved. topics. a women's resource center. Re­are here to stay, and the task at One argument against such a The demanding world of sources above and beyond those hand is to adapt to them. center is that it represents a Notre Dame makes it far from provided by the Center for Patty O'Donnell 
When the University began separatist ideal which would easy to be a student, male or Social Concerns and Counseling Lisa Riley actively recruiting minority serve only to drive men and female. An academically com­Center are essential. Linda Chalk students, it recognized that it women further apart on an al­petitive environment such as Presently, 12 groups and Melissa Locke could not engineer such a tran­ready divided campus. this one poses serious chal­committees exist on campus to Lori Hanchin sition without making internal To the contrary, one major lenges for mutual understand­address various concerns re­Tonya Callahan adjustments, and the Office of purpose of a women's resource ing between individuals. let lated to women. This suggests a Women United for Minority Affairs was created. center would be to promote alone between the sexes. need for a centralized location Justice and Peace 
Now it is time to officially ad­understanding between the Yet understanding and ap­and coordination of the efforts Nov. 9, 1992 just to the idea that women and sexes by providing a space in preciation of diversity is the talk men will be studying. socializ­which to learn and a forum in of the hour. Many under­ing, eating, and playing Frisbee which to voice opinions. graduates, graduate students, together here for a long time to Compared with the long tra­faculty, and administrative staff come. dition of male students, the his­have at one time or another 
Several organizations exist on tory of female students at Notre wished that we could find an campus to serve those inter­Dame is just beginning to be opportunity to bring people to­ested in women and women's written, and everyone at the gether rather than push them issues-for example, Women University has a part in it. apart. United for Justice and Peace In conjunction with women­A women's resource center is and Feminist Forum. related groups on campus, that opportunity. A meeting 
However, the University badly speakers and films would be place and information clear­needs a unifying structure for brought in and a library of re­inghouse are just what is these organizations that will source materials established to needed to unify the efforts of better enable them to meet the create a system of support and many individuals and small many diverse needs of women education for both women and groups into a community en­at Notre Dame. A Women's Re­men as Notre Dame continues deavor that can support and source Center is called for to to evolve as a coeducational, strengthen us all. provide this structure. Catholic University. Petitions asking people to en­
Women's resource centers It has also been asked what a dorse the establishment of a have been created on other women's resource center could Women's Resource Center at 





Viewpoint

Friday, November 13, 1992 page 13 

'Community standards' test may be too narrow 
Andrew Cutrofello 
Subterranean Homesick Politics 

The other day I was supposed to meet my buddies Jocelyn, Dex, Hank, and Jessica at the dining hall. Since we never sit in the same place, I sometimes have difficulty finding them. This time, though, I had no trouble at all. 
The reason was that my od­dball friend, Hank, was stand­ing on his chair and, well, I guess "orating" would be the most accurate word. 
When I got closer, I realized that he was saying stuff like, "Jessica says I am a total jerk." And, "Jessica says she wouldn't go on a date with me even if medical science could raise me to the level of homo sapiens." 
In the mood for a somewhat quieter meal, I coaxed Hank to take a breather and sit down with the rest of us. 
Jocelyn answered my unasked question. ''Hank's defending Jessica's freedom of speech," she said. 
"Cool," I beamed. "I told you Hank was a good guy," I added, as if this proved I was a better person for introducing him to Jessica and Jocelyn. 
Dex explained further. "Jessica has laryngitis. But she wanted to let the whole school know that just because she handed out Clinton flyers with Hank for one evening that she's not dating him." 
Hank smiled through his salami sandwich. "It would be censorship if I didn't give Jes­sica the right to have her views heard." He crooned to Jessica, 
~ filA •• 
® 
·•; e--­
Jessica 
"You know," Jocelyn said, turning to Dex, "Hank's antics do raise an interesting ques­tion. Suppose Jessica's only way of getting her voice heard publicly were through Hank. Would it be censorship if he re­fused to announce her views to the world?" 
"Definitely. In my opinion, Hank would be morally obliged to wear buttons expressing her every view.'" 
Not sure if Dex was joking or not, I ventured, "So if someone doesn't have a voice then who­ever has a voice is obliged to let the silent person be heard?" 
"Why not?" Dex asked. 
"I'll tell you why not," Jocelyn answered. "Even if Hank were a walking newspaper he wouldn't be obliged to voice somebody else's opinion." 
Jessica whispered, "Are you saying that censorship is sometimes justified?" 
"I wouldn'i call it censorship at all. But sure, I have no problem with censorship in certain cases. If someone felt obliged to give voice to every­thing other people said, they'd be as stupid as Hank is pretending to be." 
"There's no one as stupid as me," Hank megaphoned across the room, bits of salami flying on to the table next to us. 
"But Joe," Dex offered, "weren't you one of the people who complained when it looked as if the Saint Mary's adminis­tration was refusing to allow those controversial sculptures to be displayed on campus?" 
"Sure, but that was a differ­ent issue." "What makes it different?" I asked. In her hoarse whisper, Jessica 

said, "Community standards. Our community has the right to decide what is appropriate for public presentation and what should be censored." 
Jocelyn shook her head vig­orously. "Sorry, Jess, but I to­tally disagree with that one. The appeal to community stan­dards is too narrow and parochial." 
"Why?" Dex asked. 

"For one thing, it's dangerous to define community standards. Besides, it's wrong to make one's community or tradition the ultimate arbiter of moral questions. 
Suppose we belonged to a community of neo-Nazis. From the standpoint of our tradition, it wouldn't be wrong to espouse hateful anti-Semitic views. But I want to say that anti-Semitic views should be censored, period." 
Hank seemed to be back with us. "Jocelyn," he said solemnly, 
"I do not claim to agree with 
Jessica about my alleged total 
cretinness. In fact, I think she's 
wrong. But I cannot claim 
moral certitude. Hence I have 
an obligation to let her voice be 
heard." 
At which point, unfortunately, 
he got back up on his chair and 
reminded the general public 
about what a loser Jessica 
thought he was. 
To the rest of us, Jocelyn re­sponded, "The question of moral certitude is totally sec­ondary. Sure we have no van­tage-point other than a particu­lar culture's standards. 
But when we make moral claims, what we're doing is striving to attain a moral knowledge which transcends the limited appeal to the values of our own tradition." 
Dex looked doubtful. "Wouldn't a Catholic commu­nity contain the resources to sanction the censoring of anti­Semitic diatribes?" 
"Certainly," Jocelyn agreed. "But I still wouldn't want to jus­tify censorship on the basis of community standards alone. Look at it this way. Do we say anti-Semitism is wrong because our tradition says so? Or does our tradition say anti-Semitism is wrong because we think it's wrong?" 
"Either way," Jessica whis­pered, "it makes no sense to think that we have a moral obligation to publish every­body's views." 
Andrew Cutrofello is a professor ofphilosophy at Saint Mary's College. His column appears every other Friday. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Supporter is still 'crazy' about Perot 
Dear Editor: 
OK, last time. Remember Nov. 3rd, you know, the day you pulled the lever? I hope you weren't expecting coins to gush onto your lap. This lever actu­ally decided our future. It was a vote: and the winner by default, is a 46-year-old, gray haired governor! 
At 45, his head was fully brown, but we all know he is much wiser and more distin­guished now. Right! I wonder if it will be brown again by Jan­uary? 
It probably matters what the Democrats want the public to perceive him as; young and energetic or wise and distin­guished. Or maybe his hair dressers will simply forget to add the gray dye! 
This brings me to my point, I think. My point is that I'm crazy! Yes, I'm a Perot sup­porter, and disappointed about the low turnout for the ring leader of us all, H. Ross Perot. Yeah, Yeah, he did better than any independent since Theodore Roosevelt, but I'm disappointed in all the people that were going to vote for him and didn't. 
People changed their minds for Clinton or Bush because they were afraid of the other leading candidate's chances. And it was driven into their minds that Perot couldn't win. People in America were afraid, and they voted by default! Where is your courage? 
The purpose of voting is to vote for the person that you feel is the best to lead your country. Doesn't anybody stand up for what they believe in anymore? I know 19 percent of the country does, but we're all crazy. 
Here is a man that gave more than $60 million of his own money just to deliver a mes­sage, get more involved and force out the real issues. But this day and age, being in a re­cession, we resent people with money and feel like they are trying to manipulate us at every chance they get. 
Wasn't it Saint Thomas who said we should take the fortunes we are granted and use them to help others. Perot is no saint, but he is trying to help us and America. 
After all, we asked him to run for president, we put him on the ballot in all fifty states, and because of our lack of courage to vote our beliefs, we let ourselves down. 
Now I'm not as naive as it seems because I know there are a lot of people who don't be­lieve in Perot. That's fine, that's American, but I bet, unlike some people, they voted for the person they believe in. 
It really saddens me to find out only 17 percent of the voters taken in an exit poll from USA Today said they were excited about Clinton being President. It was scared voters that put Clinton in charge. We could have made a difference. 
So why do I bring this up after the election? Because I, like millions of others, am crazy about this country. And I believe we missed an opportu­nity of a lifetime. Luckily, at times life is forgiving, and 
although you might have 
wasted your vote on someone 
else we can still rely on old 
Ross. 
Perot is thP American dream. 
With a $1000 loan from his 
wife, extreme loyalty to and 
from his employees, and twenty 
years of hard work he built a 
company worth over $2 billion. 
It was because of this country that this was possible and he will never forget that. Patriots respect, love and would die for their country. Unfortunately, politicians control, abuse, and use dye to hide from their country. (Corny, but the truth hurts!) 
We deserve better! We de­serve the best! We will get a second chance to "take our country back" whether Perot runs for president in '96 or if he just acts as a spiritual leader for the people. 
He has the capabilities to spread our influences like no­body we can even dream of. I believe we all love this country and, we want to take it back. If Americans bond together there is nothing we cannot do, our history has proven this over and over. 
But in order to do this we must take action now. I do not want to revolt against the new president, but I do want the power in the people again. It is a scary concept. but we must stop being lazy. It's time to get crazy! 
Jack Buck Morrissey Hall Nov. 9, 1992 

Let BC game be an example, keep 'Rock's house' pumped! 

Dear Editor: 

Lately observers of Notre Dame football have commented about quieter crowds in "Rock's house," concerned that our home field edge is slipping away. 
A great student body, band, and cheerleaders seemed un­able to sustain crowd momen­tum when really needed, in the second halves against Ten­nessee last year and Michigan and Stanford this year, even when the defense made some great plays... due partly to in­creasingly un-"savvy" crowds ( a lot of one game a year visi­tors), partly to the 3-4 minutes TV timeouts. 
The band and cheerleaders were uncoordinated just when it was critical to keep the crowd in the game (leaving the players to risk a penalty by inciting the crowd). Even the pep rallies seemed more sterile, more a show for visitors, less attended by the students. 
The good news? The BC game! Finally the crowd was a factor. During the TV timeout when BC was driving in the third quarter, the cheerleaders and band were right there to keep the crowd "wired." 
Of course, it was a blow-out. Will 1his trend keep up? Some key points to watch: 
•Will 
the band and cheer­leaders stay focused? 

•Will 
the momentum keep building in the pep rallies (why not look for ways to get all the students on the floor?) 

•Can 
we recapture some fighting spirit traditions? For instance, ND has four great fight songs, most schools don't have any. Let's relearn the Hike Song, On Down the Line, and As Irish Backs Go Marching By. 

•Most 
of all, can the students keep shaking down the thun­der at the right moments to keep everybody pumped up? 


Pete Herrly Class of 1968 Nov. 12, 1992 



Send responses to Ross 
Dear Editor: 

Three key issues that face the nation today are environment, economy and education. Could you design a strategic plan to remedy these issues and pro­pose a solution to any impera­tive issue that should be ad­dressed? 
I would advocate sending 
your response to: 
Mr. Ross Perot 6606 L.B.J. Freeway Dallas, TX 75240 
John J. Greene Illinois Resident Nov. 7,1992 


~-~ -~------~ -----~-----~-----------------------------------------­


NOVEMBER 13-15 
~ -~ 
weekend calendar friday 
MUSIC 
Housemarys, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m. Dave Snyder Blues Band, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 
9:30p.m. An Evening of Opera and Dance, Saint Mary's, 8 p.m. Access Denied, Alumni-Senior Club Dead Sea Trolls, Bridget's 
EVENTS 
Christmas Arts and Crafts Fair, LaFortune, 8 a.m.-6 p.m. Lettice and Lovage, Morris Civic Auditorium, 8 p.m.,$ Our Town, Battell Center, 258-1666, 8 p.m.,$ 



saturday 
MUSIC 
An Evening of Opera and Dance, Saint Mary's, 8 p.m. Dave Snyder Blues Band, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 9:30p.m. Housemarys, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS 
Notre Dame vs. Penn State, Notre Dame Stadium, 
1:30 p.m. Lettice and Lovage, Morris Civic Auditorium, 2 p.m. 
and 8 p.m.,$ Hobby Holiday Show, North Village Mall, 9 a.m.-9 p.m. 


sunday 
MUSIC 
Con Tempo, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite, 2 p.m. An Evening of Opera and Dance, Saint Mary's, 7:30p.m. 

films 
FRIDAY and SATURDAY 
Far and Away, Cushing Auditorium, 7:30 & 10:30 p.m. Howard's End, Annen berg Auditorium, Snite, 7 & 9:45 

Voices of Faith praise the j 
By MICHELLE CROUCH Accent Writer 
T 
hey're a real testimony to the power and the joy in the gospel tradition and a gift to the Notre Dame Community," said Father Tom McDermott, faculty advisor to the campus's gospel ensemble, Voices of Faith. 
Notre Dame's only gospel choir, was formed by a small group of students in 1979, and now consists of approximately seventy members who perform gospel music upon request at local churches in South Bend and present two concerts on campus each year. 
"We're not into competitions," said the group's president, senior Chinetta Hart. "Right now our goal is to praise the Lord." 
Voices of Faith sings a variety of gospel music, including titles such as "Behold the Lamb of God" and "How Majestic." The choir usually chooses their music in an informal way: members bring tapes of songs they've heard from the radio or in their church congregation at home. The member who proposes the song then teaches the selected song to the other members. 
The Voices of Faith fall concert, "Oh, Come Let Us Sing," was held on November 1 in Washington Hall, and both the members and the audience considered the concert very successful. 
Junior Kendra Washington described the 


Chorale masters music of 
did not have a lot of time to practice and we had so many new people." She also noted that the crowd was large and very diverse. 
"After the concert, lots of people told us how we uplifted them," said junior Tory a Tynes. Confirming this sentiment, the group received a gracious letter from an assistant rectress who had a friend smile for the first time, in a long time, after the concert. 
The ensemble prides itself on being a very personal, Christian group of people. Even though the group's members practice many different faiths, they pray together before they sing, while they sing, and after they sing. · 
Recently, the choir has incorporated praise reports into their practices, during which members describe something good that happened to them that week or a problem they are having, and everyone prays for them. 
The members emphasized the satisfaction these practices give them. 
"It's a way of gaining spiritual fulfillment 



a variety of composers 
By LORI LINDLEY Accent Writer 
H 
ours devoted to mastering challenging music, concert tours around the country, hard work combined with a lot of fun times-these are a few of the things that make up the rewards and responsibilities of being a member of the Notre Dame Chorale. 
"The group is made up of around sixty students who just love to sing and love music," said Chorale President Erin O'Neill. 
Only a few of the members are music­related majors. "It really is a fun experience," said O'Neill. "From adversity blossoms a lot of unique relationships." 
The group's work throughout the year focuses largely on preparation for two tours, a fall weekend tour and a week­long winter tour. Chicago was the site of this year's fall tour, which took place during Halloween weekend. 
The group took a bus to Techny, a beautiful, prestigious church which usually houses groups like the Vienna Boys Choir. There, the Chorale sang at mass on Friday and performed a concert on Friday evening. Saturday was spent shopping and sightseeing, and on Sunday the group performed at mass and a concert at St. Cletus. 
The Chicago tour was a great success in multiple ways. "I really think it has done a lot for the Chorale to be able to have the weekend tour," said O'Neill. "The practical aspect is that everyone feels the pressure to get the music organized and get it in their heads before the tour. 

"But you also get the social aspect of people really getting to bond together and have experiences together outside of just the Notre Dame community, which is really important," said O'Neill. 
A longer winter tour is planned for the last week of Christmas break. Members will return to school early before embarking on a ten-day tour of the southeastern states. While on tour, the group will perform every night. usually in churches. 
This year an additional tour to Dallas, where the group will christen a new orchestra hall, has been added to their schedule for February. 
"This year we're doing a lot more performances than we did last year," said O'Neill. "We're really beginning to come of our own, which is great." 
O'Neill remarked on how cohesive the group is this year, and how well they work together. 
"The best thing about the Chorale is the people," she said. "There is not one member of the Chorale that is not really good-hearted and good-natured. It's a lot of hard work and it takes a lot of hours, but I have a lot of really dedicated people working with me." 
The one thing that really seems to tie the members together is their love for music. 
"I thought it would be a good opportunity to grow as an amateur musician." said freshman, Amanda Cragen "Plus, it takes away from the stress of other classes, like Calculus. I just really like the chance to be able to sing," she added. 
much upliftin fellowship," said J 
"I love to sing first love," said 1' for me-l get en through the next spend with the L£ 
Washington c "somewhere wh reflect on things. • 
About 45 active to the practices Friday night. 1 student-run; at E member Latrece soprano, and tenc 
Unlike most oJ groups, Voices of. welcomes all inte 
Having no audi1 diverse group o Washington. 
"It makes it sE people comin~ something selecU 

The Notre Dame Chor1 embark on a ten-day tc 
Emily Lord, also a likes the emphasis a the exposure to a lot-4 
"It's definitely excil Chorale because if touring," said Lord. • are great and we gp.t musical pieces. We a of composers." 
One problem.O'Neil too many people re; about the group. 
"We don't reall' exposure," she said. : group, it's such a <i 

page 15 

Choirs provide unique
fl the Lord through song 
sounds for ND/SMC 
said. Last year, Voices of Faith went on their first national tour. Visiting Florida and 

Musical Ministry
Atlanta, they sang at the University of Southern Florida at Emory, in various 

By THERESA ALEMAN and really liked us." World 
community centers, and twice at Disney Youth Day is an international

Accent Writer 
World. The Notre Dame alumni clubs in 

youth conference which the these areas sponsored this tour, which Pope will attend. "We feel
A 
sa part of Notre Dame
attributed to the tour being such as 
and Saint Mary's honored and very excited for success. Musical Ministry, the this event," added McLean. Tynes considered the tour a great 
McLean became involved inFolk Choir and Handbell 
so fellowship," said junior Todd McKinney. accomplishment for the choir and said she the group when she heardChoir perform regularly at 
~ry "I love to sing and gospel music is my is excited to go on another tour with the Sacred Heart Basilica. Notre them sing at her Freshman 
first love," said Tynes. "It's a spiritual outlet group this year. She said she hopes that Orientation Mass when she wasDame and Saint Mary's boast a 
us for me-l get encouragement to make it through the tours, Voices of Faith will diverse collection of campus a freshman. "They had a ya through the next week. It's a time to I can become more well-known and eventually unique mixture of instrumentschoirs and bands, and the Folk 
he spend with the Lord and sing his praises." receive invitations to gospel competitions. and an unusual sound," saidChoir and Bell Choir are just 
an Washington described the choir as McDermott accompanied them on last two groups of many which add McLean. "Folk Choir is a very ile "somewhere where we can retreat and year's debut tour. "Everywhere they go, .. spiritual group, and every
to the diverse musical talent at 
. they're always interested in lifting up

he reflect on things." Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. performance is a valuable 
About 45 active members regularly come other people's faith. They are people of experience for me as a
The Folk choir has thrived at · a to the practices, which are held every hope," he said. 
Notre Dame since 1979. member," said McLean. 
le. Friday night. The group is completely This year's tour, which is tentatively 
Comprised of 46 members, two 
ce student-run; at each performance, junior scheduled to be concentrated in the East are SMC students and the rest In addition to the Folk Choir, ler member Latrece Stewart directs the alto coast, is planned for Spring break. Areas are ND students. The choir Notre Dame's musical ministry 
.er soprano, and tenor sections. ' now on the itinerary are New York, New has a Handbell Choir. The
sings every Sunday at 11:45
Jersey, Boston, and Pennsylvania. Handbell Choir consists of 14
mass at Sacred Heart Basilica. 
ed Unlike most of the University's choral Washington said she enjoys singing in In addition to this weekly members and performs once a ng groups, Voices of Faith has no try-outs and South Bend because, "Notre Dame doesn't obligation, the choir sings for month at Sacred Heart od welcomes all interested members. really incorporate South Bend in any of its weddings, memorial services, Basilica. The choir consists of a Having no auditions makes choir "a more programs. This gives us a chance to go out graduation masses, ordination a group of hand held bells, and ne diverse group of people," according to there and minister to the kids." ceremonies, and final vows each member plays the bells 
Washington. In the future, Hart hopes to see more while reading the music for his
Ceremonies. 
he "It makes it seem like a community of touring, expansion of members, and even The Folk Choir mixes an or her individual part. people coming. together rather than more unity in the club. organ, a Celtic harp, two flutes, In addition to this monthly mt something selecti-.e. It's like church," she two violins, and is currently performance, the group plays auditioning for a cello position. at various dorm masses, at 
The group tours every SMC during Christmas, and for Advent Lessons and Carols.
summer and every other 
summer, the tour is an They also perform occasionally international one. In the for the Holy Cross Brother's summer of 1990, the group Center and for different traveled to Ireland where they weddings and ceremonies at 
Sacred Heart Basilica.
sang for various church parishes for two weeks. In Under the leadership of 19991, the group traveled graduate director Heather through the northeastern Martin and undergraduate United States, again director Anne Marie performing for different church McMorrow, the group performs parishes. For about 10 days and practices regularly. during the summer of 1992. According to McMorrow, "We the group traveled extensively used to tour, but last year we 
throughout Ireland and added a new octive of bells and England, singing at local that basically depleted our 
-.
funds. The bells cost about
churches. This August, the group plans $2000, but with the overall a trip to Denver, Colorado for performance of the group, they 
were worth it." ·
World Youth Day. Kathleen McLean, a NO senior and the McMorrow added that the group's student leader said, group is willing to play for I 
"We sang last June at the virtually any functions and that i
,, 
Bishop's Conference at Notre they hope to gain the funds Dame, and some scouts saw us soon to begin touring again. 
I 
The Observer/John Bingham 

The Notre Dame Chorale travels extensively during the year, performing challenging foreign pieces and songs from operas. The group will embark on a ten-day tour of the southeastern United States during Christmas break. 
Emily Lord, also a freshman, said she people, but so few people even know that the group holds on campus. While the likes the emphasis on performance and it exists," said O'Neill. "I don't think it Chorale gives many concerts each the exposure to a lot of different music. really gets the respect that it deserves." semester, only a few are actually at 
"It's definitely exciting to be a part of The Chorale sings a very heavy, Notre Dame. Chorale because it involves a lot of difficult music, including pieces from "It's hard to get the audience that we need here," explained O'Neill. "We
touring," said Lord. "But also, the people operas and songs written in other 
actually perform a lot more in the rest of

are great and we grt to sing a lot of great languages from all over the world. musical pieces. We are exposed to a lot "People want to hear lighter songs," the United States than we do here." 
of composers." O'Neill said. "But when you do the The Chorale performed last night at One problem.O'Neill noted was that not heavier material right, it's definitely Washington Hall. and the Chamber Choir, too many people really know anything worth listening to. We're putting on St. a small division of Chorale, will perform about the group. John's Passion next semester, which is a on November 22. The Chorale is directed "We don't really get that much fantastically difficult piece." by Mark Ring, director of choral 
exposure," she said. "It's such a fantastic Another reason for the lack of activities and visiting assistant professor group, it's such a dedicated group of exposure may be the number of concerts of music. 




Friday, November 13, 1992
page 16 

Hate-mongering zealots may strip souls of hope 
Father Robert Griffin 
/Jeffers loa fdonefj 9od 

As a wartime president, Abe Lincoln had trouble getting some of his generals out of their armchairs and onto the battlefield. 
"If you're not planning to use the Army of the Potomac," he once asked General Maclellan, 
"Would you let me  borrow it,  
since I have a use  for it my­ 
self?"  

I would like Paul A. Fisher, ND '43, heard from in last Friday's Observer, to know that if he has no use for the Notre Dame gays he is trying to trash to death, Campus Ministry would like to keep them as practising Catholics. 
Does Fisher have any idea of the harm he can cause by his free-lance guilt mongering? Does a seventeen-vear-old freshman' all at sea and helpless over the mystery of his emerging sexuality, really deserve those dark warnings which St. Paul delivered to the Romans? 
Sometimes young homosexu­als, shamed into believing that they're heirs to an Old Testa­ment curse, have to be talked back, not always successfully, from the edge ofsuicide. 
Last week in The Observer, we were treated to an anti­Semitic diatribe, taken, I pre­sume, from the spurious "Protocols of Zion" which fired up Hitler. The letters of protest poured in, telling the editors, "You should not have printed it." The editors replied: "In the name of free speech, we reserve the right to print anything." 

cording to a scale that sepa­rates harmony from dissonance. Racking my brain, I can't see why gays should be treated as rejects. 
According to the ground rules which Christ gave us when He started the Church, gentleness, fair play, and charity are the stars we must set our course by. None of us has the right to say, "I thank you, God, because I am better than other men." None of us gets to heaven on his or her own merits. Grace, which makes us pleasing to Him, is His free gift. 
We have traditions, like Christian marriage ,with which we honor God: the unity and deep love existing between a man and his wife should keep us mindful of Christ's giving His life for the life of the Church. 
As sinners falling short of our ideals, we hold ourselves ac­countable in conscience for our lapses from the tradition. Hu­man sexuality is commonly re­garded as the litmus test of our fidelity as Christians to the will of Christ. Tensions with the Church can arise as we struggle to discern the sacred and profane in the lifestyle we live by. 
In the temptations we have impurity, fornication, adultery, and divorce. Gay love, physi­cally expressed between homo­sexuals, is an option at odds with marriage in Christ as a sacrament of the Church. We'd be hypocrites to deny that gay love is regarded as sinful, at least by Christians who don't practice it. 
But to treat the homosexual as an object of fear and spite, on the pretext that ancient Bible texts oblige us to do so, is irresponsible and hateful. We know that now, even if Moses, Solomon and St. Paul didn't feel that way thousands of years ago. 
Perhaps the Hebrew religion didn't owe anything to homo­sexuals that Moses or Paul could recognize. But we know that Christianity would be im­poverished if homosexuals through the ages hadn't made their rich contributions to the Church. 
Obviously, Mr. Fisher feels that Notre Dame is more per­missive now than it was in his time under the Dome, but there's nothing Father Malloy can do to bring back the Church as it was in its said days, green in judgment and cloistered. But may be this ageing alum should ask himself why he spent money for space in The Observer, which he would use to cause pain. 
Why, if he loves his Alma Mater, is he trying to challenge us to hurt one another, when the gays here hurt enough al­ready? Why does he bring his guilt-mongering into a com­munity that should learn car­ing? 
Maybe. he should come here to stay for a while, and see that, despite its growing pains, Notre Dame has not lost the state of grace. 
Peace be to him and all the old grads. 
oes a newspaper ave a right to print something that they know will cause harm? Would The Observer print ob­scenities, and allow the readers to judge if they are porno­graphic? 
John Milton, writing about freedom of speech in his "Aeropagitica," said, "He that can apprehend and consider vice with all her . . . seeming pleasures, and yet abstain, and yet distinguish ... he is the true wayfaring Christian. I cannot praise a fugitive and cloistered virtue ..." 
I don't suppose Milton would have thought that the Christian would be helped much if he were exposed to pornography, and although I'm fairly broad­minded, I don't think Notre Dame was helped much by reading Paul Fisher's article. 
What worries me is the guilt­mongering of the zealots, which can harm souls if it leaves them without hope. 
"Love has pitched his mansion in the place of excrement," wrote Yeats. Isn't the Church Love's mansion? Are not gays God's children, or are they children of the lesser gods? 
What, I wonder, does Mr. Fisher think that Notre Dame should do about gays? Should they be required to wear identi-David worn by Jews in Hitler's Germany? Should they be forced to carry bells like lepers, to ring as a warning to passers­by? 
I used to be quick to argue gay rights. Now I leave it to gays to defend gay rights. Do gays have rights in a church with a Bible like ours? They must have some rights, if not as militants asking for liberties that would frighten the horses, then as a silent majority which has always been part of the Church. 
To make the Church strong, Christ built it on a rock. To make it truthful, He sent the Holy Spirit to teach us all things. To redeem our sinful­ness, He shed His blood. To keep the Church holy, He left us the Mass. 
Still, the Church has a fragility that keeps us humble. The Church's fragility lies in our humanity: flawed, sinful, and weak. His life is in us as the life of the vine is in the branches, and all of us together represent His mystical Body. 
He created us male and fe­male; even a gay person must be one or the other. Gay, then must be some kind of fine tun­ing between the genders, ac­

NOTRE DAME: 
A SENSE OF PLACE 
The most dramatic visual celebration of Notre Dame ever produced is now available in a paperback edition published by the University of Notre 
\ 
Dame Press. Its more than 100 four-color, full-page photographs by William Strode capturing the essence and spirit of Notre Dame make this the perfect keepsake of a special place. 
$21.95 paper• II" x 9"•106 color photographs 
Available at 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
• The Second Floor • 

Join Uttle Professor Book Center for 
An Evening with 

Father Hesburgh& FatherJoyce 
ofthe University i of /\'otre Dame 
If.~
I.:::~·'-", ­
'~k~
~F •­

Delight in the adventures thev've captured in their just releJsed bock 


TRAVELS WITH 
TED&NED 
they'll be signing copies betwee:-~ 
7:00 & 9:00 pm Tuesday, November 17th 
10% Discount on Trm:efs u·:th Ted &Sed Tuesday night: ~ovember 1~ R.S.V.P. • 277-"lci88 


Little Professor Book Center 
Ironwood PIJ.za ~orth • State Road 23 at Ironwood • South 3end 21:·-·i<i88 • Mon.-Sar.: 10:00-9:00 • Sunday: 10:00-5:•)0 

Friday, November 13, 1992 page 17 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 

12109 ATIENTION: For more information and assistance regarding the investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the Better Business Bureau of Michiana. 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9, South Bend. IN 46637­4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 or 800-439-5313. 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
TYPING 
287-4082 
Guaranteed Free Spring Break Trip To Bahamas or Panama City! Cancun, Jamaica, Daytona, Keys! Sign-Up Before 12111192! Springbreak! 1-800-678-6386. 
WordWorks Typing Service 
Term papers, dissertations, theses 
277-7406 
**Spring Break!** Bahamas Cruise (+ 10 Meals) $279! Panama City with kitchen $119 Cancun $429! Jamaica $479! Daytona (kitchens) $149! KeyWest $249! Prices increase 12111/92! 1-800-678-6386 
THE NOTRE DAME COUNCIL ON 
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS 
DEVELOPMENT congratulates 
*JEFF GODDARD* 

of Dillon Hall on winning the USC­
NO weekend raffle. Thanks to all of 
those who supported and 
participated in the raffle drawing. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: Blue 3.5" floppy disk wallet 
Possibly left in Fitzpatrick cluster 
Call Jeff x2271 
These disks hold my homework!! 
LOST AT B.C. GAME: black Canon automatic camera. Probably in parking lot outside stadium, opposite DeBartolo. PLEASE Call 273-2989 if you found it. 
LOST: Franklin Word Finder 
possibly at The Observer or the 
SMC LeMans computer lab. 
Please return if found. Great 
sentimental value. REWARD. 
284-5334 Eileen. 
LOST: Old St. louis Browns hat. Gray with Brown brim and yellow lettering. Might have been lost near Stepan. Very high sentimental value. Call Wally x3443. $$Reward$$ 
LOST: I LOST MY DORM KEYS 
IF YOU FIND SOME KEYS CALL 
X1745: REWARD 
*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*& HELP ME. ... I lost my jacket at the Spin Doctors concert... It's a green barn jacket with blue corduroy cuffs and collar and the label says Forester. 
You know how cold it gets in South Bend. I NEED my coat. Plus it has sentimental value because my sister gave it to me and she doesn't live in the country anymore. If you found it, please contact Bethany at 283-2702. &*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*& 
LOST: Silver and green Claddaugh ring at Senior Bar on Thurs. 5 Nov. Sentimental value! Erin x3867 
LOST: Sister's N.J. license on B.C. wkend name-Meghan Shannon REWARD! call Joellenx4814 
DID YOU TAKE THE WRONG SPORTCOAT AT LEMAN'S DANCE AT UNION STATION ON FRI. 6TH? CALL STEVE X1089 
LOST LOST LOST 
A cheap but special gold heart 
charm with a koala bear on each 
side. PLEASE return. lost blw 
Walsh and Pasquerilla. 
CALL All at 2316 LOST! SENTIMENTAL WATCH 
(GOLD/SILVER) IN THE JEWELRY DEPT. OF HAMMES BOOKSTORE AROUND 2-3 PM ON TUESDAY, NOV. 10, 1992. PLEASE CONTACT ND SECURITY -VERY IMPORTANT!! 


WANTED 
looking for a top fraternity, sorority, or student organization that would like to earn $500-$1500 for a one week on-campus marketing project. Must be organized and hard working. Call (800)592-2121 x308. 
NEED A AIDE FOR 2 TO MINNESOTA FOR THANKSGIVING. WILL PAY GAS. CALL MOLLY x4121. 
************WANTED*******••••••• 
Ride to Scranton, PA or any where along 1-80 in PA for Thanksgiving. Will help with gas, tolls and driving. Flexible in departure and return times. CALL JILL @ X4758 
SPAINGBREAKERS Promote our Florida Spring Break packages. Earn MONEY and FREE trips. Campus Marketing. 
800-423-5264. 
FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!! Individuals and Student Organizations wanted to promote the Hottest Spring Break Destinations, call the nation's leader. Inter-Campus programs 1-800-327-6013. 
Roomate Needed. Very close to Campus. No deposit needed. Call Jose 273-8459 after 8 pm. 
***** MINNESOTA-NEED RIDE FOR THANKS BREAK-WILL PAY! ALLISON X234 7 
WANTED VERY BADLY!!!!!!!!!!!! ND/PSU "End of an Era" T-shirt. Please call lisa at x1322. 
I need a ride to the greater INDIANAPOLIS area (Greenfield) this weekend to see my little sister in "Our Town" It's her first high school play. Please help me out! Will pay gas. Call AMY x4530 
DRIVING TO NJ FOR THANKSGIVING? PLEASE CALL TIM 4441 

FOR RENT 
HOME BED & BREAKFAST AVAILABLE FOR PARENTS ON WEEKENDS. 219-291-2899. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 

FOR SALE 
1516 Oakhill Condo-2BRs, 2 Baths, 1170 sq. ft., fireplace, skylight, spiral staircase to loft/den. 1 car garage. Walk to ND $77,500. Coldwell Banker 277-8000. Ruth Ann Smith 288-8875. 
IBM COMPATIBLE SOFTWARE: 
$2 EACH. WANTED: COMPUTERS. 1530 WESTERN AVE., SB. 287-7550. 
CHRISTMAS SWEATSHIRTS for sale!!! Call to see samples ... 273­2967. 
SALE: 2 MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS for PENN ST. call 289-3865 
DO YOU NEED A HOTEL ROOM FOR SATURDAY THE 14TH? CALL JILL X4670 
Return air ticket to San Francisco, 21-24 Nov. $150-call289-7114 
1 way tix to D.C. area (Dulles) on 11/23. Cheap! Kelly x2899 
Apple 12" Color RGB monitor for Mac Only 9 mo. old wlwarranty $310 or b/o Call (908) 382-8253 & ask for Jeff 
For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call Rita Delivery on Campus 234-6524 
Cheap trip to southern vactionlandl 
Selling a plane ticket to North Carolina over Thanksgiving Break. You name the price. Call DAVE at 283-3662. 


TICKETS 
FOR SALE: 2 PENN ST. 50-YARD LINE GA'S X1746JASON 
NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX CALL JOE OR JAY X1760 
I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS.272-6306 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
N E E D PENN ST & BC 
WILL BEAT 
ANY INSANE 
0 F FER 
kyle 
234-9433 
WILL BEAT 
ANY INSANE OFFER 
GIVE A CALL & TRY ME 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
TICKETS NEEDED-Penn St GA's­Dan#1852-$$4U 
I NEED A PENN ST. STUDENT TIC X 2187 Bll 
Need Penn State GA's -$PLEASE CALL MARY@ 271-7288$ 
Penn St•Penn St•Penn St•Penn St FOR SALE: call x3346, ask for 
l~vell 
PENN ST STUD FOR SALE call 3832 for Chanza 
Need 2 PENN STATE tix Joe X2053 
I still need Penn St GAs Pat x2071 
We NEED PSU GA's and STUDS -289-6052 
NEEDED: PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED: PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED: PENN STATE TICKETS CALL TRISH 283-5255 PLEASE! 
I need 2 Penn St. GA's Tad x 1562 
DESPERATELY NEEDED!!!!!! 2 STUD TIX FOR PENN ST.! My friends are poor but if you aren't going and are nice they would appreciate your help. 
CALL JON X3592 
HELP!! I NEED PENN GA'S FOR MY DAD'S BIRTHDAY. PLEASE CALL 273-0622 
Need Penn State GA'S Call lisa 289-3790 
Need PSU lix Eric x1200 
I NEED PENN STATE TICKETS 
CALLJENN AT x3358 
......................... 
I need Penn St. tix GA or stud. 271-8139 
We need Penn State student tix. Call x1771 
I need Penn tix GA's or stud x1624 Gary 
I need student tickets: 4 married student tickets & 2 regular student tickets call mike -273-2233 
You will be invaded by guys in Afghan rebel hats unless you sell me your Penn State GA's or studs.­so call Pete now at 273-1962 
Help!! I need PennState lix * 1 GA * 1 Student 
Please call Gina @4 721 
I need PSU stndt tckts Paul@273-1364 239-5273 
PENN GA's I need 'em You need $$$$$$$ Call Jim at 287-0889 
Now that PSU has lost a few & your friends aren't coming anymore, sack up & make some money. Sell me your Studs & GA's. 233-3990 Mike. 
need 3 student or GA's for PSU game. Call 283-3422 and ask for Vic. 
NEED PENN ST. TIX STUDENTS OR GA'S CALL MIKE AT: 287-1506 
Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call 1-800-922-BEAR. 
Need 4 Penn State lix Call Tom X3423 
need 2 Penn stu tks -John 3648 
I DESPERATELY Need ONE Penn State licket. Either Student or GA. Please call Chris x4511 
........................................... 
NEED LOTS OF PENN ST. GA'S-CALL TOM X:3343 
******.***** * *.**.**••••••••••**** * ••• 
I need Penn State G.A.'s Call Brian at x1771 
NEED 4 PSU GA'S SET YOUR PRICE!! CALL JEFF X1244 
Hello-we need a couple of Penn State GA's, please call 272-8503 if you have any. ask for Mike or Chris 
NEED PSU STUD. TIX X 1746 
I NEED ONE PENN ST. GAl Call Marty X1206 
•• 2 PENN STATE GAS FOR SALE•• ••••••1 PENN STUD FOR SALE ...••• call 4455 for Jeanne or Kenya 
NEED PENN ST. STUDENT TIX MATI x1802 
I NEED 2 PENN ST. GAs!!! x4074 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I WILL PAY BIG BUCK$ FOR YOUR PENN STATE GA'SI!! CALL RICH X3367 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Penn lix 4 sale 271 1514 
..................................... 
I NEED 
PENN STATE 
GA'S 
OR 
STUDENT 
TICKETS 
CALL MARK AT 
283-1684 
....................................... 
3PSU Stud lix 4 Sale B/0 x4246 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED PENN STATE GAS LOTS OF THEM TOM: 3593 CALL NOW! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 

I need 2 Penn St. GA's for 2 cool parents from GA. Diane X4059. Thanks. 
2 Penn St. Studs. for sale 277-8790 make offer 

I Need 2 PSU Ga's; John -233­4413 
Need three Penn St. GA's Call Jon x4239 
Please, I need 2 PSU studs! x3000 
NEED MANY PSU TIX steve 1772 

Please sell me your PENN STATE GA. Leslie-273-2661 
I need 2 Penn St GA's Will pay big for good seats Call 273 -2624 

NEED TWO PSU STUD. TICKETS! call Paul at x2714 
I NEED 2 PENN.ST. TICKETS. PLEASE CALL CHRIS AT #1717 
I need Penn St. Stud. lix Call Don x3286 

@$#%"&*(!+)?:<$&#@$ PENN STATE FOR SALE 
My family cannot come so I'm selling their tickets ( BOTH GA'S & STUDENTS) so I can go to USC (nice weather)!!l!!l!l!!!!! 
Mike 283-1161 ) • " ( o/o $ #@ ! " #" & " o/o # ( • # 
Need Penn St. stud. Joe#1112 
*NEED 2 FOR PSU* 
Forecast says SNOW Youre gonna be COLD Dial 256-2844 & consider your TIX SOLD! 
I need 1 PSU GA PLEASE MIKE X2209 


PERSONAL 
Hey Niff 
AMANDA KAY have a wonderful day 

OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 
EVERY FRIDAY IS RESUME DAY 
at The Copy Shop in LaFortune SAVE 20% off copies on our resume paper 
PAWN BUY SELL TRADE 
OZARK TRADING POST 1530 WESTERN AVE. 287-7550 

ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Confidential and legal. Expenses paid. Call Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805) 520-5978 or attorney (8 18) 241­5535. 
MEN AND WOMEN 

FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE 
For more info, call COSIMO'S 277-1875. 
PIMAILY PIMAILY PIMAILY 
PIMAILY 

!Ill!!!! !Ill! 111111! II!! !Ill!!!!!!! !!Ill !!II!! I!! I!! I !!I! Jill!! If you bought my Penn State ticket, please give me a call. Kerry x3619 I!I!! 111!11111 !I!!!!! II! I! IIIII!! I !!II! !Ill! 1111!! II! I !I! I!Ill! 
SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK '931 JAMAICA, CANCUN, FLORIDA FROM $119. BOOK EARLY, SAVE $$. ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL FREE! CALL 1-800-426-7710. 
MARSHMELLOWS CAN HURT PEOPLE. YAAAAH RIGHT! THROW THOSE SUCKERS!!!!!!! 
$5.50 HAIRCUTS 
VITO'S BARBER & STYLING SHOP 1523LINCOLNWAY WEST 233-4767 
Jason Fish-eating fish, SYR and Colorado stories. You're giving me a "Dyslexic Heart." Call me. 
Saturday's were made for SYR's (Christmas ones)ll 
SHORT ON CASH ? 
Stop by MORRISSEY LOAN Mon.-Fri.: 11:30-12:30 1st Floor LaFortune O'Hara lounge 
30 day loans up to $250 @ 1o/o interest 
MARGE 
ADOPTION -loving couple wish to open our hearts & home to your baby. Call Nancy collect (317)824­8312. 
!! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! I I 
Hobbes is still not 21, too bad some day you'll drink with us !! !! ! ! ! ! ! I I 
DO YOU LIKE KIDS? Then you'll love this 3rd grade boy who needs tutor. Call me collect in NY for more info @ 718-325-9642 or esc. 
NEED A HOTEL ROOM FOR SAT. 14TH? IF YOU'D LIKE MY DAYS INN RESERVATION CALLX3646 
Hey everyone, Teresa Testa has just turned 21 !!I 
Happy B-day from Dan, Keith, Jeff 
IrS A HORSE OF A DIFFERENT COLOR AT THE SWIM HOUSE! 
IrS A HORSE OF A DIFFERENT COLOR AT THE SWIM HOUSE! 
HI MOM & DAD FICCO! MICHAEL, WHAT HAPPENED TO THE TIRES? 
I need 2 Penn State GA's for 2 cool parents from GA. Please call Diane x4059. Thanks! 
CLT­IT'S YOU! CLC 
TOP 10 QUOTES FOR TARA'S BIRTHDAY 
10) I CANT BELIEVE I PEED ON A CHURCH! 
9) ARE THERE BOOKS IN THE LIBRARY? 
8) IT'S FURRY, ISN'T IT? 
7) THIS PLACE SUCKS!! 
6) I'M PLAYING WITH THE IGUANA. 5) 2 RUMPLEMINTS, 2 JAGERMEISTERS, 5 LONG ISLANDS, 3 DR. PEPPER SHOTS, AND STILL STANDING! 
4) THE BONG QUEEN 
3) I FELL OFF THE END OF YOUR TRUCK? 
2) DON'T LOOK AT MY NINNIESJ 
1) I HATE MY BIRTHDAY!! HAVE A MOST EXCELLENT BIRTHDAY, TARA!! TWO YEARS ISN'T THAT LONG, LUSH PUPPET! (WELL, MAYBE IT IS.) LOVE, BUCKY, GINA, DEEJ, AND METRO 
P.S. GIVE TARA A HAPPY BIRTHDAY CALL 284-5453 
Kirk: I've got them spotted. Meet me at the swimmin' hole. 
........................... 
Happy Birthday John Patrick!! Love, The Gang
............................. 
Happy Birthday Johnathan Patrick!!! love, Hank 
Selling 1 Penn State student ticket Call Anna 284-5440 
Warm it up, Chris! That's what I was born to do! 

Take the keys. Take a stand 
Don't drink and drive.
Call a cab. 

. 
page 18 The Observer 
NBA STANDINGS NFL . . 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Division 
w L Pet. GB New York 3 0 1.000 Orlando 3 1 .750 1/2 Boston 2 2 .500 1 1/2 Miam1 2 2 .500 11/2 New Jersey 1 3 .250 2 1/2 Philadelphia o 3 .000 3 Washington 0 4 .000 31/2 Central Division Chicago 3 1 .750 Milwaui<ee 3 1 .750 Cleveland 2 1 .667 112 Char lone 2 2 .500 1 Detroit 2 2 .500 1 Atlanta 2 .333 1 1!2 Indiana 1 2 .333 1 1/2 WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Division 
w L Pet. GB Utah 2 1 667 Minnesota 2 2 .500 ,2 Denver 1 2 .333 1 Houston 1 2 . 333 1 San Antonio 1 2 .333 1 Dallas 0 3 .000 2 Pacific Division Portland 2 0 1.000 Seattle 2 0 1.000 Sacramento 3 .750 Golden State 2 1 .667 1,2 LA Lai<ers 2 1 .667 112 Phoenix 1 1 .500 1 LA Clippers 1 3 .250 2 Wednesday's Games 
Boston 109, Charlotte 99 Indiana 120, Philadelphia 114 Milwaukee 124. Dallas 116 Houston 101. Atlanta 82 Ch1cago 98. Detroit 96. OT LA Clippers 109, Sacramento 101 
Thursday's Games 
Late Games Not Included Minnesota 88, New Jersey 84 Orlando 127. Washington 100 Detroit 95, Miami 88 Atlanta at San Antonio, (n) 
CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS TO DART BOOK 
COURSES CANCELLED 
AMST 591 01 #4577 GOVT 343T 01 #()119 LAW 6198 01 •4780 LAW 662 01 •3365 PSY 398 20 •2498 PSY 425 01 .0212 PSY 498 20 .0330 PSY 599 20 #2538 PSY 619 01 •4553 PSY 694 20 •1015 PSY 696 20 .0338 699 20 #()675
~~ 700 20 #}209 
CLASSES IHAI WILL REOPEN 
.u1lQQ f,M. 11/13/92 ACCf 473 02 0490 ANTH 336 01 4166 ARST 150K 01 1154 ARST 326S 01 0509 BA 490 03 1994 BA 490 04 2439 BA 490 07 0663 ECON 434 01 3597 
NFL Injury Report NEW YORK (AP) -The Nat1onal Football 
League injury report for this week's  games  as  
provided by the league:  
Sunday  
CINCINNATI  AT  NEW  YORK  JETS  - 

Bengals: RB Eric Ball (ankle) is probable. Jets: WR AI Toon (concussion), LB Joe Kelly (ankle) are out; RB Blair Thomas (groin) is probable. 
NEW ENGLAND AT INDIANAPOLIS ­Patriots: QB Tom Hodson (right thumb/throwing hand-injured reserve) is out; DE Ray Agnew (elbow), RB Sam Gash (abdomen), QB Hugh Millen (shoulder). G Reggie Redding (ankle). LB Johnny Rembert (foot), S Randy Robbins (foot), RB Leonard Russell (hip). LB Chris Singleton (groin). LB Richard Tardits (knee), LB Andre Tippett (groin) are questionable; DE Chris Gannon (knee). CB Jerome Henderson (shoulder), WR Walter Stanley (knee) are probable. Colts: DE Steve Emtman (knee-injured reserve) is out; LB Duane BICkett (hamstring) is questionable; LB Jeff Herrod (shoulder). G Bill Schultz (ani<le), G Ron Soil (shoulder). LB Tony Waiker (elbow) are probable . 
SAN DIEGO AT CLEVELAND-Chargers: DE Burt Grossman {ankle), WR·KR Nate Lewis (hip) are questionable; RB Eric Biememy (ankle), RB Marion Butts (knee). G Eric Moten (knee). LB Kevin Murphy (hamstring). DE Leslie O'Neal (knee) are probable; Browns: G John R1enstra (shoulder) is questionable; DT Michael Dean Perry (knee) is probable. 
SEATTLE AT LOS ANGELES RAIDERS -Seahawks: T Ronnie Lee (knee), WR Doug Thomas (toe). DE Tony Woods (hamstnng) are questionable. Raiders: CB Elvis Patterson (ankle) 
is probable. 
CHICAGO AT TAMPA BAY-Bears: WR Tom Waddle (ankle), RB Brad Muster (back). WR Wendell Davis (ankle). LB J1m Morrissey (knee). DE Trace Armstrong (knee) are probable. Buccaneers: LB Calvin Tiggle (ankle), S Darrell Fullington (shoulder), DE·DT AI Chamblee (neck) are doubtful; T Rob Taylor (knee). TE Ron Hall (elbow) are questionable. 
LOS ANGELES RAMS AT DALLAS-Rams: DE Bill Hawkins (knee-injured reserve), RB Robert Delpino (knee-injured reserve), TE Damone 
Johnson (shoulder-injureo reserve), DT David 
Rocker (knee-injured reserve). S Michael Stewart 
(arm-injuredreserve) are out. Cowboys: DE Tony 
Hill (hamstnng) is doubtlul; S Darren Woodson 
(arm), DE Jimrme Jones (wrist) are probable. 
NEW ORLEANS AT SAN FRANCISCO ­
Saints: TE Hoby Brenner (knee). LB Joel 
Smeenge (hand) are questionable; TE John T1ce 
(groin). LB James Williams (concuss1on) are 
probable. 49ers: NT Michael Carter (knee) is 
questionable; LB Antomo Goss (ankle). LB Mart•n 
Harrison (shoulder). LB David Wilkins (back) are 
probable. 
PHILADELPHIA VS. GREEN BAY at Milwaukee-Eagles: WR-KR Jeff Sydner (ribs). S Rich Miano (toe) are questiOnable. Packers: LB Brian Noble (back), DE Matt Brock (neck) are questionable; CB Vinnie Clark (leg). C·G Frank Winters (toe) are probable. 
PHOENIX AT ATLANTA-Cardinals: C Bill lewis (hamstring) is doubtful; G-T Mark May (chest) is questionable; DT Eric Swann (cnesl). T Luis Sharpe (calf), G Lance Sm1th (elbow) are probable. Falcons: S Elbert Shelley (groin) 1s questionable; T Chris Hinton (knee) is probable. 
DETROIT AT PITTSBURGH-Lions: WR Jeff Campbell (ankle). TE Jimmie Johnson (ankle) are questionable; WR Aubrey Matthews (eye) IS probable. Steelers: WR Jeff Graham (ankle). S Larry Grilfin (foot). WR Dwight Stone (knee) are questionable; T Tunch llkin (back), G Carlton Haselrig (shoulder), WR Yanes;• Th1gpen (shoulder) are probable. 
HOUSTON AT MINNESOTA -Oilers: G John Flannery (knee) is doubtful; LB Eugene Seale (leg), DT Doug Smith (hamstnng) are questionable; S M1ke Dumas (jaw) is probable. Vikings: LB Ray Berry (thigh) IS questionable: WR Cns Carter (knee). TE Steve Jordan reaR}. DT Brad Culpepper (hip) are probable 
WASHINGTON AT KANSAS CITY -­Redskins: T Elewonibi (knee-injured reserve) 1s out; LB Andre Collins (back) is questionable; LB Monte Coleman (neck). S Danny Copeland (neck 1, 
LB Kurt Gouveia (neck), G Joe Jacooy (neck) are probable. Chiefs: CB Albert Lewis (arm-injured reserve), TE Mike Dyal (arm-injured reserve) are out: DE Bill Maas (shoulder) is doubtful: TE Keith 
----
--
--
. 
-
---
-
--
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
--
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
. 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Hist. African-American Relig.; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 11: 15-12:30; cross-listed with 
THE0326 
Social justice Bi;g~y; 3 cr. hr5.; TH 09:30-10:45; cross-listed with ECON 
401. GOVT 401. 401, BA 401, liPS 401 Representations of Motherhood; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 03:25­04:40; cross-listed with ENOL 493F & GSC 493F Research and Dissertation· var. cr. hrs. Latin-American Ima~es ofUJii 3 cr. hrs.; TH 02:45-04:00; cross-listed with ENOL 316F, liPS 31 F, GO 316F AS{Teaching Concepts in Design; 3 cr. hrs; MWF 0 I: 15-05:00 Social Justice Bio~~y; 3 cr. nr5.6 TH 09:30-10:45; cross-listed with ECON 401,GOVT401.~ 401 BA4 I,IIPS401 Mathematical Methods in Chemical Physics; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 09:30-10:45 Visiting Student Research; 0 cr. hrs.; Permission Required Topics in Labor: Human Resources Development; I cr. hr.; F 01: 15-02:05 SoCial-Cultural Features of Russian and East-European Markets; 3 cr. hrs.; T 2:45-5:15 English for Non-Native ~akers; 0 cr. hrs.; MW 12:15-01 :30; Permission Required from James H. owell Assoc. Dean of Graduate School Writing Skills in Enl\lish; 0 cr. hrs.; MW 04:00-05:15; Permisison Required from ~mesH. Powe , Assoc. Dean of Graduate School Non-esident Thesis Otrection; I cr. hr.; Permission Required Social justice Bio~y; 3 cr. h'4b TH 09:30-10:45; cross-listed with ECON 401,GOVT401,, 401,BA I,IIPS401 Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required Senior Honor5 Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required Senior Honor5 Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required Senior Honor5 Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required Senior Honors Essay; 3 cr. hrs; Permission Required Area Studtes Essay; 3 cr. hrs.; Permission Required Area Studies Essay; 3 cr. hrs.; Permission Required Philosophy and Poverty; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 01:15-02:30 Philosophy and Pove1{; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 02:45-04:00 Add pre-requisite: "P YS 116 or 118 or 142 or 222" Add pre-repuisite: "MATH 212 or EG 120 or PHYS 4 71" Beginning ortuguese I; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 03:25-04:15 Be~innin~ Portuguese II; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 09:30-10:45; ROPO 101 prerequisite Se and ociety; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 02:20-03:10 Social justice Bio!§~Yi 3 cr. hrs6 TH 09:30-10:45: cross-listed with ECON 401, GOVT 401. 401, BA 4 I, liPS 401 Thesis Direction; var. cr. hrs. Proseminar; 1 cr. hr.; W 03:50-05:05 Moral Phil & Theolo~ical Ethich3 cr. hrs.; T 09:30-12:00 Eastern Litu~es Semmar; 3 cr. rs.; F 09:30-12:00 Reformation iturgies; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 02:20-03:35 Liturgical Theology Seminar; 3 cr. hrs.; W 09:30-12:00 Directed Readings; var. cr. hrs. Dissertation Research; var. cr. hrs. Nonresident Dissertation Research; I cr. hr. 
Add restriction: "Engineering Seniors only" 
Change to 0 credit hours 
Add restriction: "M~ors onk through 1st period; then open to all" 
Change time to: M F I 0: I -II:00 
Change time to: MWF 11:15-12:05 
Change to "Permission Required" & Remove prerequisite 
Change to 3 credit hours 
Change to 3 credit hours 
Change to 3 credit hours 
Add restriction: "Accoumijl majors only" 
Remove Permission RHuire 
Change days/time to: 01:15-02:05 
Add prerequisite: "CHEM 224 or CHEM 236 and CHEM 224L or 236L" 
Add restriction: "Freshmen only" 
Add restriction: "Freshmen only" 
Add restriction: "Freshmen only" 
Add restriction: "Freshmen only" 
EE 4980 01 4478 ENOL 300C 01 4223 ENOL 301 01 0648 ENOL 379C 01 4225 ENOL 390B 01 4226 HIST 327A 01 4302 MUS 222 01 1357 PHIL 245 01 3548 PHIL 248 01 4030 RLST 350 40 9540 soc 220 01 2031 THTR 135 49 9749 
CLOSED SECTIONS M QI 1lQQ 
P.M. 11112/92 
ACCT 232 03 2862 ACCf 232 05 2671 ACCf 232 09 2871 ACCT 232 10 1791 ACCT 473 02 0490 ACCT 485 01 3399 AERO 441L 01 2859 AFAM 204 01 4695 AFAM 419Z 01 4698 AFAM 420 01 4620 AFAM 454 01 3536 AMST 493 01 4161 
ANTH 336 01 4166 ANTH 389 01 3934 ANTH 454 01 3454 ARCH 598B 01 0420 ARCH 598F 01 0269 ARHI 169 01 3150 ARHI 496 01 3654 ARST ISOK 01 1154 ARST 212S 01 2356 ARST 232S 01 2361 ARST 246S 01 3464 ARST 326S 01 0509 BA 464 01 3111 BA 490 01 0677 BA 490 03 1994 BA 490 04 2439 BA 490 07 0663 BIOS 411L 01 2234 BIOS 412L 02 0587 CHEM 118L 07 2280 CLAS 423 01 3725 COTH 435 01 4196 COTH 436 01 4197 COTH 440 01 4696 ECON 434 01 3597 ECON 450 01 3745 EE 4980 01 4478 ENOL 300C 01 4223 
ECON 115 ECON 115 ECON 115 ECON 224 
ECON 224 
EE 476 FIN 370-478 
GEOS 142 GOVT 342 
GOVT 501 GSC 204 GSC 227 GSC 242 GSC 242 GSC 300C GSC 329 GSC 329 GSC 346 GSC 355 GSC 360 GSC 412C GSC 468E GSC 475Z GSC 477 GSC 493F GSC 499 GOVT 430 GOVT 513 HIST Ill 
HIST 394 HIST 628 HIST 636 HIST 675 liPS 466 liPS 566 MARK 370-495 
MATH 214 MATH 222 MATH 608 MBA 552E MBA 56IE MBA 563E MBA 622E MBA 675E MBA 683E MBA 685E ME 226 ME 498C Ml 646 
486
M~tA
MS 225 
PHIL 235 PHIL 697 PHIL 7018 PHYS 250 ROPO 201 sc 362 
soc 122 soc 122 soc 232 soc 513 THEO 201 THEO 391 
THEO 392 
THEO 455B THEO 582 THEO 586 THEO 593C THEO 595B 
THEO 596 THEO 623 
ENOL 301 01 0648 ENOL 301C 01 0966 ENOL 316F 01 4124 ENOL 317C 01 3726 ENOL 319B 01 4224 ENOL 340 01 1531 ENOL 379C 01 4225 ENOL 384A 01 3764 ENOL 390B 01 4226 ENOL 422 01 1022 ENOL 440 01 4233 ENOL 462B 01 4237 ENGL 465 01 2096 ENOL 513B 01 4220 ENOL 522A 01 4218 FIN 231 04 1174 AN 231 06 0751 FIN 231 07 2932 FIN 231 08 0767 FIN 231 09 lOll FIN 231 10 3091 FIN 231 12 1714 FIN 475 01 2739 FIN 476 01 3407 FIN 478 01 1884 GOVT 316F 01 4578 GSC 493F 01 4700 HIST 309A 01 4299 

HOCKEY 
at Univ. of 111.-Chicago 7:00p.m. 


FOOTBALL 
Penn State 

1:35 p.m. Notre Dame Stadium 

WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
Duquesne 
10:00 p.m. LaSalle 7:30p.m. J.A.C.C. 

BUFFALO AT MIAMI-Bills: G Glenn ParKer
Cash (ankle), WR Fred Jones (ankle), LB Tracy 
(knee) is doubtful; LB Shane Conlan (ankle). LB
Simien (shoulder), LB Percy Snow (groin), RB 
Carlton Bailey (groin), RB Eddie Fuller (hand). WR
Barry Word (ankle) are questionable. 
Andre Reed (groin) are questionable; CB Chr1s
NEW YORK GIANTS AT DENVER-Giants: 
Hale (ankle), CB Nate Odomes (hamstring). T Will
LBs Lawrence Taylor (achilles-injured rt·serve) is 
Wolford (shoulder) are probable. Dolphins: NT
out; LB Pepper Johnson (knee). DT Stacey Dillaro 
Chuck Klingbeil (knee). LB John Otlerdahl
(ankle) are probable. Broncos: RB Samm1e Sm1tn 
(abdomen). C Jetl Uhlenhake (knee.ankle) are
(groin) is doubtlul. 
questionable.
Monday

I 
j I I 
I 
J 
I 
01 #3372 02 #1700 03 #4204 01 #3051 
01 #)907 
01 #4025 
01 #3101 01 #1072 
01 #1506 01 #4062 01 #3804 01 #3981 02 #4616 01 #4575 01 #3596 02 #4563 01 #3563 01 #4603 01 #4712 01 #4703 01 #4574 01 #4702 01 #4586 01 #4700 01 #4625 01 #4257 01 #4274 01 #{)603 01 #4601 01 #4314 OJ #4313 01 #2384 01 #3912 02 #3911 
01 #4523 02 #3327 01 #{)598 01 #2943 01 #2634 01 #2951 01 #3)14 01 #3273 01 #1732 01 #{)377 01 #{)701 01 #4446 01 #4719 01 #1625 01 #1839 
01 #4335 01 #4724 01 #2444 01 #1410 01 #4716 OJ #4631 01 #1734 02 #1461 OJ #{)280 01 #1380 01 #{)209 01 #{)596 
01 #2710 
01 #1776 01 #2682 01 #{)265 01 #{)237 01 #1534 
01 ..-2933 01 #4546 
-
-
-
--
-
--
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
--
-
-
--
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
. 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
---
-
-
-
-
-
-

Add restriction: "Freshmen only" Add restriciton: "Freshmen only" Add restriction: "Freshmen only" Add restriciton: "College of Business students only through 3rd period; then 
. . <?~n ro all . 

Add restnctton: College of Busmess students only through 3rd period: then o~n to all 
Add prerequisite: "EE 347 or MSE 225" 
Change restriction to: "Maiers only through 2nd period; BA students only 
3rdrriod; then orn to all 
Ad : "GEOS 142 corequisite" 
Add restriction: "~ors only through 3rd period; then open to all" and GO 342T corequisite Add restriction: "Graduate students only" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Re0ired" Change pre-requisite to: " OVT 141 or 341 or permission of instructor" Change days/time to: TH 01:15-02:30 Add restriction: "Freshmen only" Add restriction: "Majors on~" Change day to: H 07:30-09: 0 P.M. Class Change days to: M 12:00-02:30 Add restriciton: "Graduate students only" Change time to: MW 03:50-05:05 Change time to: MW 03:50-05:05 Change restriction to: "Majors oni0through 2nd period, BA students only through 3rd period; then oMn to al" Change pre-requisite to: " ATH 120 or MATH 126" Change time to: MWF 01:15-02:05 Change time to: MWF 09:05-09:55 Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" Add pre/corequisite: "MATH226" Change restriction to: "ME 439 & AERO/ME 334 Change day to: H 07:30-09:30 P.M. Class Change time to: TH II :00-12:15 Add ~re/corequisite: "(CHEM 115 or 117 or 125 or 195) and (CHEM 116 orll orl26orl96) Course is nQI permission required Add restriction: "Graduate students only" Add restriction: "Graduate students only" Change time to: TH 09:30-10:45 Change time to: MWF02:20-03:10 Add pre-requisite: EASC 14 or GEOS 141 or SC 141 Add restriction: "Freshmen only" Add restriction: "Freshmen only" Change time to: MWF 10:10-1 :00 Change time to: MW 11:15-12:30 Change time to: TH 09:30-10:45 Delete pre-requisite (6 credit hour5 THEO); Add: "Does not satisfy university Theology requirement" Delete pre-requisite (6 credit hour5 THEO); Add: "Does not satisfy 
COURSES ADDED 
AFAM 326 
AFAM 401 
AFAM 493F 
AME 699 AMST 458 
ARCH 598) 8A 401 
CHEM 553 CHEM 699Z 
ECON 455 
ECON 487 
ENOL 500 
ENOL 500A 
ENOL 600 
oovr 401 
GOVT 494R 
oovr 494R 
GOVT 494R 
GOVT 494R 
GOVT 494R 
GOVT 494R 
GOVT 494R 
oovr 494R 
GOVT 494R 
GOVT 494R 
GOVT 494R 
GOVT 494R 
GOVT 495R 
GOVT 495R 
PHIL 258 
PHIL 258 
PHYS 309 
PHYS 333 
ROPO 101 
ROPO 102 
soc 370 
soc 401 
soc 599 
THEO 400 
THEO 655 
THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO 
CHANQES 
AERO 
AME 
AMST 
ARCH 
ARCH 
ARHI 
BA 
BA 
BA 
BA 
BIOS 
CHEM 
CHEM 
COTH 
COTH 
COTH 
COTH 
672 679 683 698 699 700 
465 680 360 144 
553 
481 391 391 391 464 521 202 420 104 104 105 105 university Theollifhrequirement" 
01  #4758  
01  #4747  
01  #4751  
14  #4757  
01  #4756  
01  #4787  
01  #4750  
01  #4781  
01  •4782  
01  #4785  
01  #4779  
01  #4763  
01  #4764  
01  #4765  
01  •4748  
02  #4766  
03  #4767  
04  #4768  
05  #4769  
06  #4770  
07  #4771  
08  #4772  
09  #4773  
10  #4774  
11  #4775  
12  #4776  
13  #4788  
02  #4778  
03  •4777  
01  #4759  
02  #4760  
01  #3723  
01  #()653  
01  #4784  
01  •4761  
01  #4752  
01  #4749  
01  •4762  
01  #4746  
01  •4415  
01  #4547  
01  #4408  
01  •2602  
01  #2635  
01  #1654  
01  •1235  
01  #4012  
01  #4456  
01  #4684  
01  #2258  
01  #1225  
01  #3646  
01  #{)393  
02  #1296  
03  #1690  
01  #3111  
01  #3212  
01  ..-4514  
01  #0649  
01  #3502  
02  #4190  
01  #3504  
02  #4127  


Change to 3 credit our5 
Change days/time to: M 01:15-02:30 
Change to 3 cr. hrs. & change days to: TH 09:30-10:45 
Add restriction: "M DIV stUdents only" 
Change days/time to: W 09:45-11:00; and add resrriction: 
onlf 
Ad restriction: "M DIV students only" Change title to: "Patristic Sem: Gregory the Great" 
HIST 311A 01 4301 PHIL 248 HIST 327A 01 4302 PHIL 265 HIST 357A 01 4288 PSY 375 HIST 365A 01 4290 PSY 403 HIST 403 01 4289 PSY 538E HIST 403A 01 4291 RLST 213 HIST 454A 01 4311 RLST 213 HIST 699 01 1122 RLST 240 liPS 493 01 4562 RLST 251 LAW 631F 01 0555 RLST 261 LAW 695 01 1449 RLST 350 LAW 695 02 1668 RLST 351 LAW 695 03 1459 ROSP 499 LAW 695 04 1675 soc 220 LAW 695 05 1831 soc 346 LAW 695 06 3201 soc 379 ME 466 01 0045 soc 415 MI 403 01 4594 soc 421 Ml 433 01 3785 soc 424 MSA 546 01 4438 THEO 235 MSA 547 01 1815 THEO 235 MUS 220 02 0899 THEO 262 MUS 222 01 1357 THEO 265 MUS 225 01 0278 THEO 290 MUS 226 01 0032 THTR 135 NSCI 412 01 3192 THTR 276 PHIL 245 01 3548 THTR 377 PHIL 246 01 2483 THTR 410 
"M DIY students 
01 01 01 01 01 
20 
22 26 32 36 40 42 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 02 01 01 01 49 53 58 59 4030 0387 4360 4362 4741 9520 9522 9526 9532 9536 9540 9542 1701 

2031 
3562 4395 3659 3308 4729 1755 2106 0786 0214 
4406 
9749 9753 9758 9759 
..
J 
Friday,November13, 1992 The Observer page 19 


'Iliere are near{y 10,000 liome[ess s/ie[ters and faci{ities in tlie country 6ut tliis is among tlie 6est. " ~red 1(arnas, e~ecutive director 9\[ationa{ Coa{ition for tlie J{omefess 
requests your presence at tlie second annua[ 

Centerfor the Home{ess Christmas Luncheon Wednesday, 'lJecimber 2, 1992 
11:30 a.m. Soutli r.Bend Century Center 
~or reservations and information, please ca£[: (219) 282-8700 

r o-ves~l-plan-toTOIncoach-H"OitzDecember21n supportoT 'MTchlana'sliomeiesS.-Pieasereserve:, 
__tables of eight at $240 per table seats at $30 per reservation 0 I am unable to attend the December 2 luncheon, but please accept my holiday gift of $ to the Center for the Homeless. 
Please make checks payable to: Center for the Homeless, .,nc. 

NAME_________________________________________ COMPANY NAME ________________________________ ADDRESS _________________________________ CITY __________STATE ____ZIP ____ PHONE ( )________ 
Contributions to the Center for the Homeless generally are fully tax deductible ($20 of each $30 luncheon reservation is deductible). Please RSVP by November 25, 1992 
L---------------------------------------------------------------~ 
-------------------------~-----------------~ 





I' 
) 
~ 
\ 
) 
( 
page 20 
Ivy League 
gives up on 
frosh football 
NEW YORK (AP)-One of college football's longest­running traditions comes to an end Friday when the Ivy League plays its final schedule of freshman football games.
The Ivy League is the last Division I conference to maintain a freshman football program that's separate from the varsity. 
'Tm kind of sorry to see it go," said Columbia athletic director Dr. John Reeves, whose freshman squad hosts Cornell in one of three scheduled games. "I thought freshman football distinguished Ivy League athletics from other athletic programs." 
The Ivy Group presidents voted last year to discontinue. freshman football as a separate sport due to a combination of factors including economics and the quality of competition. 
"The immediate contributions from well­qualified student-athletes will benefit our developing programs," Reeves said. "Also, it will be good to have one cohesive unit." 
Freshman football dates back almost to the inception of the college game because it was felt that first-year players were not skillful enough to compete on varsity squads. 
Later, academic considerations became a factor for maintaining the teams, allowing incoming freshman to get used to scholastic requirements while facing a reduced football commitment. 
llil:k()O' 
Viilaue 
From the day you move in, our excellent staff will give you quality, personal­ized service. 
Look at some of the great advantages Hickory Village offers: 
• 
Beautifully Landscaped Grounds 

• 
Clubhouse 

• 
Neat & Clean Laundry Facilities 

• 
Cable TV Available 

• 
Disposal 

• 
Sparkling Pool 



-~~~------------------------------------~------------------------------~................. 
The Observer Friday, November 13, 1992 
Men 
continued from page 28 
by one point. However, since then, Michigan and Eastern Michigan have improved dramatically. 
Michigan, whose performance against the Irish was particularly lackluster, finished their season winning the Mid America Conference Champi­onship by 32 points. Notre Dame's strongest competition will come from the University of Wisconsin. Wisconsin is un­defeated and currently ranked second in the nation. The Bad­ger squad features Jason Casiano as their lead runner, Jerry Schumaker and former high school national champion Brian Dameworth. 
The Irish have their work cut out for them. Last year Notre 

Stop by today and discover qual~y. affordable living. 
Efficiencies from $255 1-Bedrooms from $270 2-Bedrooms from $330 

272-1880 
rHlCKORij 
DlLLA~E~ 
Mon.-Fri. 9-7, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 

Happy 18th Birthday Amy! 
Hope it's Great! Teel Heel Hee. 
• 
Attentive Staff 

• 
Balcony or Patio 

• 24--hour Emergency Maintenance Service 

• 
Air Conditioning 

• 
Planned Activities 

• 
FrM Aerobics 

• 
Close To Shopping 


Dame went into the district meet expecting a sure-fire bid to the national championships. They boasted a 4-1 record and considered the Districts a mere formality. 
But complacency took its toll. The Irish placed fourth in the meet and after a spectacular season, Notre Dame was denied a bid to the national championship meet. It's hard not to draw parallels between this year and last. Once again the Irish have a 4-1 record and once again they are predicted to qualify for the national championships. But after last year's disappointment, this year's squad refuses to become complacent. 
"This year we know that there are no nationals without districts," said sophomore har­rier John Cowan. 
all you have to do is hand out

"To motivate us for this race, r;========================-~ 
Love, Your 18 Buddies 

the stats from last year's race, when we lost," said All-Ameri­can Mike McWilliams, Notre Dame's top runner. "Those stats are the best motivator around. They show us exactly what we can't do this weekend." 
While this year Notre Dame may benefit from a new deter­mination, once the starting gun fires, the Irish will rely on the traditional tactics that have carried the team throughout the entire season. As sophomore runner John Cowan puts it, "We can win as a team, if we run as a team." 
"We've got to run controlled for the first half of the race and we've got to run as a team," said senior captain John Coyle. 
Heading into districts the Irish will be lead by the All-American tandem of Mike McWilliams and John Coyle. McWilliams and 
Pep Rally 
Friday, Nov. 13 
7:00 p.m. JACC 
Guest Speaker: John L:uJack 

ame 

vs. 

Penn State 
Go Irish! 
Coyle are superb runners and are the foundation on which the 1992 Irish squad was built. 
Behind them has been the consistent third runner, sophomore standout Nate Ruder. As McWilliams puts it, "Ruder just does not run poorly." 
The four other members of the Irish top seven are J.R. Melaro, John Cowan, Derek Seiling and Jim Trautman. "It is essential for our fourth through seventh runners to run well," said Pian e. 
While the Irish know that they are facing stiff competition this weekend, they are confident in their abilities and the potential for victory. 
"If we run like we're capable of running we will go to the National Championships," said Piane. 

Back in 1935, Leo Burnett made big black Alpha pencils part of "standard equipment" for his advertising agency because he felt these pencils helped generate big ideas for our clients. 
Today, we still believe in big ideas at the Leo Burnett Company and we're looking for people with big ideas to_join the ranks. 
Come learn more ofwhat it's all about to be in Media at one of the largest advertising agencies in the countn. \Ve'll be on campus on r\'ovember 18th so we can get better acquainted with you, and you with us. Please join us for one of our two presentations: 
Wednesday, November 18, 3:30 p.m. Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall (SMC) 
Wednesday, November 18, 8:00p.m. Main Lounge, University Club 
So grab a pencil and mark your calendar for November 18th. We look forward to meeting you. 
.I 
LEO BURNE'IT COMPANY, INC. 3., West Wacker Dri\'e, Chicago, Illinois 

Friday, November 13, 1992 The Observer page 21 
to when we came in. I'm thoroughly enjoying this." 

V-ball 
Irish fans are enjoying the transition as welL Spectators

continued from page 28 
can now witness a version of 

volleyball entirely different Cragin, an outside hitter. "It's from that seen a few short such a great feeling. I think it years ago. Notre Dame has would be hard for a freshman toppled three ranked teams this coming in to realize what a season and played well against great team this is as compared the top competition in the 
r-------------------------, 
Sunday·s Hre For Students 
~orr~~!! 
Downtown South Bend 
Free Food Bp.m.-10p.m. Specials Bp.m.-12 
Come with your friends to match Sunday night football, enjoy FREE food, great specials and Rmesome Halftime 
country. The same players were formerly afraid to face competition in their own conference. 
"We view each game differently now," said May, a middle blocker. "At the beginning of our junior year, we went in hoping we could win. Now, we know we can. We go in saying, 'We've got to win this game."' 
Brown realized in 1990 that she was taking over a team that was down on itself. She knew the only way the Irish could gain sorely-needed confidence was through hard work and steady improvement. 
"Their skills have improved and their play has become more consistent," Brown explained. "Their confidence in themselves and the team has become evident. As a class, the seniors have shown good leadership in that process." 
The progress the seniors have made shows in their accomplishments. May and Fiebelkorn combine to make 
t~­

Alicia Turner 
the Irish defense a force in the middle, standing first and second, respectively, in the Midwest Collegiate Conference in blocks. They make an equally strong contribution on offense, where both boast hitting percentages over .280. 
Despite adjusting to a non­starting role for much of this season, Turner has amassed 130 kills and 221 digs in a strong all-around effort. Cragin also hits over .280 and has come on strong lately to amass 244 kills for the season. She 

Jessica Fiebelkorn 
can also set if necessary: she has the most assists of any non­setter on the team with 55. 
Perhaps the most important lesson this class has learned, though, is to rely on one another. The players had no choice but to do that during their difficult seasons, and the practice carried right over when success came along. In fact, the seniors' reliance on each other has certainly had a lot to do with that success. 
"In all the experiences we've been through, we've bonded together," Turner, the team 
Rafflesllllll 

SMC Students Interested in Writing for 
The Observer 

The SMC computer can now send stories to ND office. 
Contact: Amy Greenwood-news 273-2993, Nicole McGrath-sports 284-5193, Mara Divis-accent 284-5254 or Anna Marie Tabor-editor 284-5440 for more information. 

Hair &Nail Studio 
OPEN 6 Days AWeek 
STUDENT SPECIAL 

-$10 off afull sef of nails 289-4335 
2301 Mishawaka Ave., South Bend 
Great Tastes Begin Here... 
2041 Cassopolis 
M?W~l1  Elkhart, IN 262-1500  
121 S. Niles  
~ South Bend, IN  
H~~~~urilnf  234-9000  
'l)oc CD:  ,  120 N. Matn  

•~.-£en;'.,C $ M!shawaka. IN 
255-7737 
Reservations Appreciated 

Hair Designers 
Say you saw us in the Observer 
Haircuts $6.00 
with Student I.D. 277-0057 2 miles north of campus on U.S. 31 
Attention students-Our ad in the ND telephone directory was placed in the wrong section. Please record our number under beauty !,and barber shops. 
captain, said. "We had to make a change, and we did that as a group." 
By making such a drastic change, the seniors have created for themselves a chance to realize their ultimate dream: the NCAA Tournament. Reaching that pinnacle seemed a like preposterous aim after 1990. But if, as expected, Notre Dame wins the MCC tournament, they will earn an automatic bid to their first NCAA tournament since 1988. Even without the conference's free pass, Notre Dame will likely earn a trip on the merit of their overall season. 
"That's been our dream, to come to college and make the NCAA," said Turner. "This is our last shot at it We have a great opportunity. We don't want to just be in it, we want to win the first round and then we'll look from there." 
It's obvious that the Notre Dame seniors. by fighting through hard times together, have learned to rely on each other, believe in themselves, and aim high. And now they can learn the kind of lesson taught by good times: how to enjoy themselves thoroughly. 
The Constituition of the United States grants all Americans the right to a free press. Defend that right. 

Students for Enviromental Action 
presents 

Campus Earth Week 
November 16-21 
Watch for Details 
"Live simply, so that others may simply live" 
1 

Come see us for 
Nick's Patio !Breakfast served all day 
tr. .f. m' I . Lunch • Dinner 
J amu.y ..L~staurant , 

Open 24 -Hours 
5ln 'Eating t£zyerience I On Iron\\'ood Between Edison & Douglas 
'•­
L-----5-m_i_n_uf_es_f_ro_m_ca_m_pu_s_·____.. L_~ ______j 27 7 ~ 7 400 


:\1 ' 
.( 
L' t 
I
.i; l ~ 
l; 
~ 
' l . 
!t 
\
I. . '-. 
t 
l\ l1 
; j 

i I 
I ' 
. ' 

page 22 The Observer 
Alabama readies for Bulldogs 
Number-two ranking on line in ballgame 
KNOW
IT

HERE'S N 0 

ALL
•
CH THING Afr I...---HOLL-YW0-00CO-MES-TO
S-OUTH-BEN-D NOT-RE •.
RN-D 0--RME­
ASTROKE 0~······If===~~BE=:P~RR~T~OF~T~HE~M~R~G!::IC:!II~II====j GOOD LUCK. (
• I ""-h ~~=.=.=u=o~v~•
~.~s~T~HE~n~.:.~,~D~F~I~N~£~,~.J.~N~5~M~II~N~•];•§•~r~I=LL!a~w~£~1~
..~.=s~D~I:E:aM=T:oj
r · ..\ ' 
IIUI TIE ILU INI &GLD.
l 
~~) 
Know the warning signs. Early detection may save your life. 


WANTED: 20,000 FIGHTING IRISH FANS 
•"'"":,::;{W~~~·:.:;'.~~·: ~~~: :::;;-,·••·"· 
W IN··· W 1 N • • • W IN 
JIR GRANO PRIZE 
yn2'rcm 1992 G£o METRo"J'~JrU I U COURTESY OF GATES CHEUY WORLD • 
FIRST PRIZE 

2 RouNoTRIP TlcKns To THE NoTRE oAMuusc GAME IN Los ANGELEs WITH ONE ROOM FOR TWO NI6HTS RTTH£ UNTliRY CITY MARRIOTT • 
SECOND, THIRD RND FOURTH-CASH PRI2ES 
(2)-$1000.00 
SOVtliBENO (4) -$500.00 •
.,\\amott oo1-st oo.oo •.... ,.•. 
FIFTH RNO SIHTH PRIZE ON£ WEEKEND GHRWRY FOR TWO RT THE MARRIOTT RNO RESIDENCE INN IN SOUTH BEND 
SEUENTH PRIZE 4-DINNERS FOR TWO AT LASALLE GRILL 

FIRST 1800 P£0PL£ IN TH£ ODOR R£C£1U£ R FR££ "RUDY., T-SHIRT. 
Ttlls pert of the film Is set In the ICJ10's. so llttl out those wide lapels. trenthtoets, NIUII P-toeh, dart flded jeans end pleese no neon or beseball tops. (ell 219/239-8895 for more detailed Info. You'll bf' asked lo stand, cheer, shout for Notre Oeme. Don't forget to dress u• 11 r m 111 . W ,. I o ., k for w 11 r d I o s e f' i il q ua u lt• ere 1-il 1 R t \ t1 111 
Hain Date: Saturday, Nt)\'embcr 21". Listen to U!l:l for more details. For each raffle ticket turned in, $Itt will he clon:tle1l lo The Cl•nlcr fnr lhe Homeless. 
•let• ••••• ••••la.ltee a, 1•• "• t•rc.•••• '' lllll'llrtt .,.,,,. IH•.., ·•• It'.,,,, .. ,'" •••· ••••• ,, •••••••• , 11 , •• ,. •' ••••• ,.1 ••••••••• ft,;,;.. flf\1 ••••••• , ,,,, •••••• ,, 
111 1
•Itt ' "••~11 ••••• fre• , .. ,,,Ill llltl•ll 1•t· tt flit t•fltlt" tf' ''' Jtltft !t 'Itt 
rtl711 lfl Jt.tl lftl&ltrt.lt lltltl ttl 11.-ltt• It I j t•r .,,,,, tlf•t t• • ''''"5 t•tt•t II IJit' ltMIIf If lttlltll••l• It'"' t•ttttl•l"• ..,., '''''''•lit• tl I' '''II •• •llttt \wtett.t•••• I• ••• •••• •• , .. ., ••••• 1 r '''''•• •. , •t•• 1,, ••• , ••• 1 ,, ·••' ••• ''\. ,. • ••• ,, .... ''''''''' c. •••• , •• , •••••••• ~. •• ll•-•• ••. , .•••• -·· .......... ~ •. ,.
1111 1
.....,, .............,,....., ..........., ...., ..............................., .. . 
•w••••••••• tf • '" '••'•II '"•" ••It• ••• ••••• •·• ••• '•'• •••••••••'"" 1 eT '""' .,,.,,. •.,,, 
....................... , .. , ••••••,.' Jlll.ll.................... ''~·· •••,.' ~~····· llll.,•t•t tlltle •f flfHl efll• '' 111.11 1111••••• ••••• ef lhl' "''"" 1 !1.11. (stl .. ,t.c ••••• •f ., •• ·-····· ,, \l.lt. 

.:;.-j 
winless South Carolina. The Bulldogs' other loss was 24-3 at Louisiana State, a team Alabama beat 31-11 last week. 
Still, Sherrill has led State to consecutive winning seasons for the first time since 1980-81 and the Bulldogs are the frontrunner for an appearance in the Peach Bowl in Atlanta on Jan. 2. He says it's easy to compare his team with his alma matter. 
"You have one team that has played and deserves to be No. 2 in the nation, and is trying to get to No. 1," Sherrill said. "And you have a team that has brought back respect to its program and is moving in the right direction." 
Can Mississippi State pull off the upset? The Bulldogs have ended Alabama streaks before. 
In 1980, Alabama was No. 1 and had a school record 28­game winning streak. 
Mississippi State won 6-3 in Jackson when Alabama was held to 180 yards total offense and lost its only game in the last 34 meetings. 
As far as national championship talk, Stallings said he has talked with his players about it this week and "put it aside." 
''I'd rather have that kind of distraction than people not caring about anything riding on the game, except a little good will or feelings," Stallings said. 
Take a Frrst Ard class wrth the Amencan Red Cross. We'll teach you what you need to know to·save someone you love . ..from 
choking. bleedrng or dozens of other lrfea 
threatenrng emergencies Call your chapter of the American Red Cross today. And know rl aiL 

Friday, November 13, 1992 
Irish baseball announces signees in 1994 freshman class 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame baseball coach Pat Murphy announced the signing of seven recruits for the 1994 season early signing period yesterday. 
The recruits were led by right-handed pitcher Larry Mobs of Nutley, N.J. A 6-7 fireballer, Mobs was called the nation's best right-handed pitching prospect by one major­league scouting service . 
Catcher Dennis Twombley, a 6-2, 205-pound catcher from San Diego, Calif. could be Mobs's battery mate in future Irish lineups. Twombley hit .350 with seven home runs and 31 RBis during his junior season. 
Irish coach Pat Murphy also landed three quality southpaw pitchers. 
Paul Pryblo, of nearby 
fq
1
1 
~ ~ 
.. 
~, ~ ~ 
. . 
~ ~ 
~~-i 
• 
t . l. o; 

H ~; •. <: ;'~ ,., .....~.\... ·~. 

' .p . • ........ '.....
~.. &a-..... ~ • 'i:/ ·,:( ...... -~ -~ . . .. . 
• , oil \
i. 

~! ·-1 'O'Hara Room-LaForrune 
.. · 

Your Football Weekend Outlet 
Dooley Room -LaFortune Student Center-239-8128 
Hours: Friday, 12:00 -9:00pm Saturday, 8:00am -9:00 pm Sunday, 9:00 am -5:00 pm 
VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPTED! 

-.i'liia..RISH IMPORTS Direct from Ireland 
Sweaters • Jewelry • Music • Gifts 
ttune Student 
~~0 ~~-Sorin Room 
THIS WEEKEND ONLY 
Fri. 9am-8pm • Sat. 8am -6pm 
LaPorte, Ind., had the numbers during last year's high school baseball season to make him a star in anyone's rating system. The LaPorte High School star went 13-2 with a 0. 70 ERA. Goth of his losses were 1-0 pitchers' duels. 
Greg Henebry, another of the lefty pitchers Murphy picked up this fall, plays quarterback for his Clinton (Mass.) High School football team. Rounding out the group of southpaws is is Wally Widelski of Holland, Ill. Widelski brings impressive credentials to the Irish program, what with 143 strikeouts in his 95 innings. 
Murphy did not forget to improve his infield, adding pitcher/catcher/first baseman Mike Amhrein of Oak Park, Ill. and shortstop/second baseman Randall Brooks of Hazel Crest, Ill. to his list of 1994 signees. 
This Year 

A Notre Dame Memory 
by Ken David On Sale 
STARKVILLE, Miss. (AP) ­Talk of a seventh national championship at Alabama may be a bit premature. The second­ranked Crimson Tide has yet to win the Southeastern 20.Conference's Western Division . 
The Tide (9-0, 6-0 in the SEC), despite a 19-game winning streak, faces a formidable foe Saturday in No. 16 Mississippi State (7-2, 4-2), the only team left with a chance to take the West title away. 
"Every game is a big game," Alabama coach Gene Stallings said. "You can't put too much emphasis on any team, but not give it all of your attention. It's a fine line. 
"Our players know the importance of this game, as do the Mississippi State players." 
Alabama wins the first-ever SEC West title with a victory. Mississippi State must beat Alabama and Ole Miss, and Alabama must lose to Auburn on Thanksgiving Day for the Bulldogs to get into the inaugural SEC championship game on Dec. 5. 
"There are a lot of things that have to fall into place and the odds aren't in our favor," Mississippi State coach Jackie Sherrill said. "That doesn't mean it can't happen. But Alabama's pretty well assured." 
Mississippi State, a 10 1/2­point underdog, has won five in 

Gene Stallings 
a row at sold-out Scott Field and is 9-1 there since Sherrill took over last season. But the Crimson Tide has never lost in 10 trips to Starkville. 
Quarterback Jay Barker, 13-0 as the Alabama starter, believes the Tide will have to play its best game of 1992 to stay unbeaten. 
"Mississippi State has a real good football team and they are going to play us tough," Barker said. "It's their chance to put themselves back into the title race. It's going to be the biggest game of the year. 
"We have to get ourselves ready to play the best game we've played all year long. It's going to take that to beat Mississippi State." 
What was expected to be the biggest game in the SEC this season lost much of its luster Oct. 17 when Mississippi State was shocked 21-6 by previously 

l 
I 
i 
l ; ~ 1 
l : 
l
~ r 
I 
~~ ' 
L: 
r \ 
I' 
J 
ll 
,~ 
! 
i. 
' 
-~-· 
i 
I
J ,I•
1 
• 
.1:1: 
~ 
·4; 
... 

~'* :~ ... to 2 a m·
Friday: u./" TV-~·_·, '!;-•
~ • • 

Saturday: 30 rn.irrutes after the end o'f tl1e game tO 2 a.m. 
J 
Hot Dogs & Hamburgers Huge Dance Floor Spacious Bathrooms Snow Volleyball Great Music Friendly Staff 

The Secret is Out, The Club is the Place to Be 
I("· 
(located just south of the stadium) 

411#'
.'1' 
-, -; . , 

-I -I -. ~ 
page 24 The Observer Friday, November 13, 1992 
Huskies not forced to forfeit 


i ·.; 

·.. 
~ j J :~,, 
r 
! 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Power volleyball is being played at the Rock on Mondays from 12 p.m.·1:15 p.m. and is open to all. If you have any questions, call Mike at 239-5689. 
ND/SMC Equestrian Club members interested in showing at Ball State November 20-22 should call Katie at 284-5114. 
Football lnterhall Championships are scheduled for November 15 in the stadium. The women's game will start at 
9:30 a.m. and the men's game will immediately follow the women's game. Enter the stadium at Gate 14 after 9 a.m. 
The Irish men's volleyball team will be hosting Laurentian University in a match at the JACC at 7 p.m. on November 15. Admission is free. 
....-----------::J::-:J=-a-p--p--y--Z
......-J~d-:-1 
a•lrthday 


-~.\ ~·· __4s~~c~~~N (f~)
s~_ I ··' .. t,,_ ':.~ FI;N~ss ;g 
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP, INC. • Sales • Service • Bike Storage and Packaging 
135 DIXIE WAY SOUTH 3835 LINCOLNWAY EAS-1 SOUl H BEND. IN 46637 MISIIAW/\KI\ IN t1 f)!)4 4 (219)277 -8B66 (:219)259-4862 ROSELAND 
CANDYMAN ~ 
Fn: 5:00. 7:00, 9:15 Sat-Sun: 1:00. 3:00. 5:00. 7:00, 9:15 
DANIEL DAY-LEWIS THE LAST OF ffiJ THE MOHICANS 
Fri: 43>. 7:15. 10:00Fri: 4:45, 7:30, 9:45 Sill-Sun: 1 :30. 4:!)0, 7:15, 10:00 

Sat-Sun: 2:00. 4:45, 7-:JO. 9:45 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -The University of Washington won a major victory Thursday when a Pacific-1 0 Conference committee recommended the Huskies not forfeit any of the eight games quarterback Billy Joe Hobert played in this season. 
Hobert, a redshirt junior, was declared ineligible Tuesday after an investigation by the Pac-1 0 and Washington found he had taken $50,000 in loans from the father-in-law of a friend last spring with no collateral, apparently relying on his pro football earning potential. 
"It was a very difficult decision, although it was unanimous," said Douglas Hobbs, one of the three­member panel which made the recommendation. "The critical factor for the committee was its belief that the outcome of athletic contests are best settled on the field. We're better off sticking with the result rather than engaging in hindsight." 
Hobert and the Huskies aren't off the hook just yet, though. The recommendation of the committee will be considered by the Pac-1 0 Council. which meets Sunday in San Francisco. 
The Council's verdict will then be forwarded to the presidents and chancellors of the Pac-1 0 schools, who will make a final decision Tuesday. 
"The University of Washington is encouraged with the recommendation of the review committee," Washington athletic director Barbara Hedges said in a statement. 
PAss ALONG 
AN HEIRLOOM MORE 
VALUABLE THAN GOLD. 
LIFE. 
When you make a be­quest to the American Heart Association, you're passing along a precious legacy. The gift of life. That's because your contri­bution supports research 
that could save your de­scendants from America's 
number one killer. 
To learn more about the 
Planned Giving Program, 
call us today. It's the ft.rst 
step in making a memory 
that lasts beyond a lifetime. 
A American Heart V Association 
This space prCNided as a public service. 
WE'RE PUTnNG DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS. 

representative at UCLA, said he has no way of knowing what the Council will recommend. 
The committee met behind closed doors at a Los Angeles hotel for 4 1/2 hours Thursday before its recommendation was announced. Other committee members beside Hobbs were Ted Leland, athletic director at Stanford~ and Patricia Drapela, senior woman administrator at Oregon State. 
Hobbs said the evidence was not compelling enough to recommend that Washington forfeit the eight games Hobert played in. 
"We could not find any evidence at all that Washington knew about the loan and unless we were prepared to engage in 20-20 hindsight, we were unprepared to say they should have known," Hobbs said. 
Hobert said he spent the $50,000 in three months, using 1 _it to pay bills, for entertainment 
and to buy cars, guns and a stereo. 
The investigation found that the loans were improper because: 
-a promissory note signed by Hobert included payback terms based on his future earnings as a professional football player; 
-the loans were not from an established family friend; 
-Hobert's professional potential played a part in the decision to provide the loans. 
NCAA rules prohibit a player from accepting a loan based on his future earning potential as a professional athlete, or from receiving a loan that is not ordinarily available to other students. 
The Pac-10 Compliance and Enforcement Committee will consider at a later date the NCAA rule violation. 
Washington coach Don James had said he didn't learn of the loans until last Wednesday. 
"If they had played him after they knew he was ineligible, those games certainly would have been forfeited, I'm sure," Hobbs said. "The question resolved itself down to should they have known. 
"We'd be very reluctant to punish an institution where it was unknown and unknowable (about the loan). That just isn't the American system." 
Hobert can apply to have his eligibility restored for next season, and he said he may do that. He also is contemplating entering April's NFL draft. 
The Department of Music Presents 

9{ptre f})ame sContemporary Cliam6er Music if.nsem6k 
GEORGINE DESI~It. SOPRANO eNDIDINE DI'ILEDC;E, VIOlA 
eAQOL)'N PUMMED, VIOLIN KADEN BIDAIIIIISitAS, ~ELLO and guest artist ICATIIDYN VO'IAPEit. VIOLIN 
WORKS BY DIAMOND, RAVEL AND SCHOENBERG 
liNDA)', IIOYEM.ED 15, 1991 I:&& P.M. 
Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art 
The Concert is free and open to the public. 

THE POINTE 

AT SAINT JOSEPH 
Start the holidays off with a cozy place to stay. 
The Pointe at Saint joseph Apartments are nestled on the Saintjoseph River bank and convienently located in downtown South Bend. 
•Close to ND Campus 
•Selected 1 or 2 bedroom apartments on special for a big Holiday Savings 
Your Luxury Apartment is waiting for you 

j 
J ' 
~ r
_... 

Friday, November 13, 1992 
The Observer page 25 
Volleyball slams Ramblers 

Special to The Observer 
Senior middle blocker Jessica Fiebelkorn slammed down a season-high 20 kills and hit .395 to lead the Notre Dame volleyball team to its 25th win of the season as the 20th-ranked Irish improved to 25-5 on the season. 
The Irish disposed of 
conference foe Loyola (Ill.) 15­8, 15-9, 15-12 to breeze to a 5­0 mark in the league. 
Notre Dame, 17-2 when it boasts a team hitting percentage of over .300, narrowly missed that mark against the Ramblers with a .299 percentage to Loyola's .138. 


Delicious Pizza & Pa.'ita-Sandtviches-Apperizers 25 Pizza Toppings & 1 lb. burgers 
OPEN 

4-10 pm T-TH 4-12 am F-Sar 4-9 pm Sun 
271;2055 
31 
Free Delivery r@ 
to Campus 
52303 Emmons Road Georgetown Shopping Center (next to Club Shenanigan's) 

Irish women start on road to nationals 
Michigan will be harriers' target during district meet 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Writer 
The road to the national championship will begin Saturday for the Notre Dame women's cross country team, as they travel to Bloomington, Ind., for the NCAA District IV Meet. 
The Irish are coming ofT of a victory and complete domination of the field at the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships Oct. 31, in which the team placed all eleven runners in the top 21 places, scoring a conference meet record eighteen points. Saturday's race, however, will feature the toughest competition of the year for the Irish, including Big Ten powers Iowa, Wisconsin, and Michigan. 
The Wolverines, favored to win the race, defeated Notre Dame Oct. 2 at the Notre Dame Invitational. setting a blistering pace early that made it impossible for the Irish to catch up later in the race. 
The Irish have a different strategy this time, however. and will be focused on competing with Michigan. 
"We have to run with them (Michigan) from the start, which is something we didn't do at the Invitational," said sophomore Becky Alfieri, who placed seventh at the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships two weeks ago. "If we run with Michigan, then we should be able to place in the top two." 
In order to advance to the NCAA Championships Nov. 23, the Irish will need to place either first or second, though a third-place finish could earn them an at-large bid because of their strong performances in previous races this year. 


COME JOIN "MOOSE" KRAUSE 
R A SPECIAL AUTOGRAPH SESSIO 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13rH 
AT THE HAMMES NOTRE"' DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" (from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m.) 
Last year, Notre Dame finished a disappointing eleventh place, and is determined to bounce back this year. 
The team is hoping to use their victory two weeks ago as a springboard for this meet, though it will be run on a harder course and against tougher competition. 
"This race will be a lot tougher than the conference meet, but we're ready," continued Alfieri. "We feel we have a very good chance Saturday." 
Behind Alfieri, captain Lisa Gorski, Stefanie Jensen, Eva Flood, and Sarah Riley, who won the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championship October 31, the Irish are hoping to place in the top two in order to go on to the NCAA Championships Nov. 23. 
Penn 
continued from page 28 
Tomorrow is the final game in this series, and bragging rights for a while will be settled. And most of all, the seniors this year have their final chance to play before the horne crowd wearing the gold and blue. 
Now that we won't win the national championship this season, there is only one other small desire I have, one wish that would satisfy me completely. Hand Penn State a good, old-fashioned butt­whipping. Run the score up on them. Send them back to not­so-Happy Valley with their Nittany tails between their legs. 
Like most Penn State-Notre Dame games, the weather forecast promises less than ideal conditions, unless, of course, you like watching football in the snow. Hopefully, though, they can't change the weather, the Irish can change recent history and redeem themselves with a win over Papa Joe and the Nittany Lions. 


CRUISE JOBS 

Students Needed! Bam$2.00)+I month working forcrW8e shipsor tour compe.rues. Holiday, Summer, and Pull­Time employment available. For your W./93 employment program call: 
cnn. Empwymmt Snvicn 
(206) 634-0468 Exl c 55M 

.. 
!. ___

~-··----_20----....~---­
f' ---~ .. -?'· ......... -.... ~ •' ~--' --~ ---·-· -~ ~=,....._ _...~ . 
r . 
l \';'ID ' 
'~~ 
' .\ 

page 26 The Observer 
Hockey looks to douse Flames 


By BRYAN CONNOLLY Sports Writer 


The Irish hockey team will open up a home-and-home series tonight in the Joyce ACC against the University of Illi­nois-Chicago Flames. With a 7­6 lead in the overall series, Notre Dame is hoping to claim its first victories of the year and turn around the losing streak which has engulfed the begin­ning of the season. 
Although the Irish have not yet won a game (0-7, 0-6 in CCHA play), they have been comfortable with their perfor­mances this season. Though three of their first four oppo­nents were ranked among the top ten college teams in the na­tion (number-two Lake Supe­rior, number-four Michigan and number-seven Miami), the Irish have stayed close in all but one game. 


UIC (2-5, 1-3 CCHA) is two points ahead of Notre Dame in the league standings. It swept the Irish in a home-and-home series last year and will be try­ing to repeat that performance this weekend. 
"We match up pretty well," said Notre Dame coach Ric Schafer. 
Indeed, the Flames too are a predominantly young team, with a bulk of their players be­ing freshmen and sophomores. They have also been able to rely on the strong play of goalie Jon Hillebrandt, one of the

I;: 
premier goalies in the league. 

I, 
The Irish have been working on several things in preparation for this weekend's match up, including the play of their special teams units. With a twenty seven percent success rate on the power play, Schafer 

The Observer/Jake Peters 
Freshman Jamie Ling looks for an opening in Lake Superior's defense. 
categorized it as "one of the ar­eas we feel very confident about." In penalty killing, on the other hand, Notre Dame ranks last in the CCHA and is in need of some adjustment. 
On top of special teams play, the Irish have been trying re­duce mistakes in their own zone and avoid taking more penalties than their opponents, problems which have been nagging them all season. 
Winless on the season, the Irish would like earn their first victory at home tonight against the Flames before moving on to VIC Saturday night for the final game. They are hoping to suc­ceed in their goal of becoming a better team with each game by earning their first points of the season this weekend and work­ing their way up the CCHA lad­der. 
NOTRE DAME OI.JYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM 
FRIDAY Irish Ice Hockey vs Illinois-Chicago 
JACC Ice Rink 7:00PM 
Quarlerback Club Night 


I 
I. 
SATURDAY . 

!I 

#20 Irish Volleyball 

.I 
vs Duquesne

If~ lO:OOAM JACC
~ i 
Free Admission 
vs La Salle

'1 
7:30PM JACC 

'1 l ' ~ f 

'1 
Now, the
r 
"Best Brunch in Michiana" 

"*
~ 
ll ~ I! 
is Twice as Good 

;j 
The Landing has been voted ''Best Brunch in :\ lichiana," and now The Village Landing at ~orth Village .Mall features the same wide 
Yariety of entrees, salads, and desserts! Try the 
best brunch in Michiana at either location! 

I~ 
t : 
' ' 
l; J J 
T LANDING VILLAGE LANDING 
1717 Lincolnway East 52565 Rte. 31-33

I : 
South Bend at North Village Mall 

i ~ 
(219) ~89-4122 South Bend (219) 272-8180 
Sunday Brunch 10 am -2 pm 

rLife•s a, 
tr1p• •••so 
take one. 
London $119* Amsterdam $145* Madrid $169* Guatemala $145* Bangkok $475* 
•Fares are each Wat from Chicago based on a rcundtrip purdlase. Taxes rot included arld restrictions apply. Call for other v.orldwide destinations, both one wert arld rOU1dtrip. 
Council Trauwd 
1153 N. Dearbom St., 2nd floor Chicago,ll60610 
311·951-0585 
Call your FREE copy of the Student Travels Magazine 
_ 


Friday, November 13, 1992 
~J~4;NOW 

OPEN 
Try a Taste of Baja California 
Love, Peace, and Fish Tacos 
Open late on Fridays and Saturdays 'til 2 a.n1. 
Dine in or Carry OLtt 
r-----------------------,
Off Any Combo
1 0 O 
• and Medium Soda 
In the Campus Shoppes Center across from Corktowne on S.R. 23 
277-JACK 
gootJ through 11/22/92

L-----------------------~ 
Career opportunities at J.P. Morgan 
Interview.'/ for lVotre Darne l;enior.'/ interetded in Corporate Finance will be held in Chicago on Friday, .January 8, 1993 
P/PCu;e subrnit a cot•er lt•ller and re.wune 
b.Y ,Vovernber 20 to: Alice llicltard.'/oll Fi.'/lter 60 JJ(JI/8treet ./.R ,Horgan & Co. Incorporated .\ell· JiJrk, .vr 10260-0060 
JPMorgan 

J.P. :\1of1.ran is an t>qual opportunity t-mployt-r 
-· 


II. Today 

Friday, November 13, 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S ••page 27 
r•-~eB~~~~~~----------~----------~~==----------------------------~====~~~~-~-~----~---~-~-------------------------------~ 
SPELUNKER 
JAY HOSLER 


SUNTAN 
RAIN
0 
RADIO,
0 
0 
A-LL 
(J 





ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~:::-+:=:+:=-+:-t =+~~ 
~~"+:::-i 
~~~~ ~~~ -:-:+=+::~ 
~~~~ ~=+::+:::~ 
H:-±:+.::-i 29 Charlemagne's dom. 

FI?IDAY AND SATURDAY, Nov.l3 & 14 
TOM CRUISE 
"·f.~R A:'ID o\W\\~ IS,\ S£!\SATIO~.\L PIECE OF E:'lTIRTAINM£:-tT!. 
"""'a-.·~''''*' 
"'fAR .\,~n :\\\W HAS ..\STOl:\DI:\G (0\IED\'. Amo~ -\:'0 VJSt.\LS:'
.,...,_.,llL.--1' 
7:30 and 10:30 Cushing 
FARANDAWAY 
,-~~~~~.~z=~-~UNI&------~,____._~--------~-·------~~~--------------------------­
58 Any young animal 59 Not "fer" 60Uve 61 Ghazels 62 "Caro-," Verdi aria 631dem 64 Slue goo 65 Dita or dilo 
DOWN 
1 Slavic nurse 2 Inflexible 3 Lombok 
neighbor 4 Deserving censure 5 Kerry's county 
seat 6 Snow leopard 7 Hesse river 
8 "And-fine seam" 9 Ferns 
10 Niche 
1 t Asian boundary river 12 Meets 13 Sault-Marie 21 Lace tip 22 Penny-a-line 25 Ship's crane 26 Highest of the 
Pyrenees 
27 Poet Louise­
28 Zygotes 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
BILL WAITERSON 



30 Beat Karpov  47 Resist  53 Napoleonic  
31 Author Turin  49 Fall bloomer  victory site  
32 Intrusive  50 Very long skirt  54 Operatic prince  
37Lend­ 51 Pt. of a  55 Favorable  
(hearken)  ...  monogram  opportunity  
38 Encore!  52 Item discussed  56 Ko-Ko's weapon  
39 Hawaiian island  by Lucretius  57 Attach firmly  
40 Exceptional  
45"-Saves  

Christmas," 
Get answers to any three clues
1988film 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420·
48Aemains 
stationary at sea 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
The stand-up COMEDY of WALL I COLLINS 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"Won't talk, huh? ... Frankie! Hand me that scaler." 
DOMINO'S PARTY PACK 
Today's Soecjal: 

4 Large 

95 
Thin Pepperoni 
Pizzas 
Call Now 
MENU 
Notre Dame 

Baked Pollack Apple Cheddar Quiche Spaghetti, Mostaccioli 
...
·

CAMPUS ..... 
Friday 7 & 9:45p.m. Film: ..Howard's End... Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:30 
p.m. Folk Dancing. Club House, SMC. 

7:30 
& 10:30 p.m. Film: "Far and Away." Cushing Auditorium. 8 p.m. "An Evening of Opera and Dance."' Uttle Theatre, SMC. 


Saturday 7 &9:45p.m. Film: "Howard's End." Annenberg Auditorium. 
8 p.m. "An Evening of Opera and Dance... Uttle Theatre. SMC. 
additional topping 95e per pizza 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drtven carry less than $20. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. 
C> 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
Saint Mary's 
Mexican Bar Salmon Pasta BBQ Ribs 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Type of lettuce s Ten inside two pumps 9 Effrontery 14 The Amu Darya 
feeds it 15 Primitive 16 Slacken 17 Cattle catcher 18 De novo 19 Crucial 20 Marx Brothers 
film 23Jamesor 
Tommie 24 Dads and lads 25 Putter 28 King or queen 
33American chameleon 34 Julian or Varro 35 T ouse or tawse 36 Dieters' main courses 41 Give-whirl 42 Zero 
43 Certain straight-grained wood 
44 Lacking in expression 47 Sometime 4B"Bel-," Burnford novel 490n-with so Paint thinners 57 Declines in power 

, 
! 



page 28 

.. _f. .I-. $-__qg .-...... ._ ---....-&-4@ •.5 _; 
. r·-­
-·· 
Sports 

Friday, November 13, 1992 
Irish seniors play final home matches

RICH KURZ 
Eye in the Sky 
Penn State: The end of the road for Irish seniors 
Sorry, fellow seniors, but our time has come. We are down to our final home football game as students at the University of Notre Dame. 
Only one last obstacle, and since the 'Canes are too busy playing the mighty Temple Owls, the most fitting available team is showing up Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium. We have a score to settle with the Nittany Lions and their coach with the coke-bottle glasses. Ever since Jimmy Johnson left the college coaching ranks, Joepa has easily held on to the title of official Antichrist. 
Two years ago, the then-seniors gathered for their final game to watch the number-one ranked Irish take on Penn State. The seniors went home after watching Notre Dame lose a big lead and the national championship in the second half. 
But bitter defeats like that don't overshadow the accomplishments of Irish football in our collegiate career. No, we didn't win a national championship while here, but short of that, the Irish have provided their share of excitement. 
Freshman year, what was billed as the greatest team in Notre Dame history awaited us, and for the first 11 games of the season, they held on to that belief. 
The Rocket burned Michigan for two touchdowns, and Tony Rice directed the troops in a dominating fourth­quarter drive to bring the Irish back to victory against the Trojans. Only a loss to Miami, including the infamous 3rd­and-43 play, separated us from back­to-hack titles. 
The Irish kept fans on a roller­coaster ride sophomore season. Rick Mirer added another page to Notre Dame lore, leading the Irish to a comeback win against the Wolverines and a number-one ranking. But losses to Stanford and those jerks from Penn State put the championship out of reach. And who will ever forget Rocket's punt return at the end of the Orange Bowl, called back by a penalty, robbing the Irish of a win. 
A devastating loss to Tennessee, followed up by a crushing defeat at Penn State last year, were only offset by a victory in the Sugar Bowl big enough to shut up 200,000 Gator fans and clear that disgusting blue and orange off Bourbon Street. 
A tie and a loss this season have kept the Irish from a realistic shot at a national title this season, but Notre Dame has grasped on to the concept of attempting to be the most dominating team it can be, if last week's game is 
any indication. 
And if you thought the Irish had plenty of motivation to beat the other Catholics, from up New England way last weekend, you better believe that 
was  nothing  compared  to  the  
motivation  they  have  going  into  
Saturday's contest.  

Two losses in a row to Penn State. 
see PENN/page 25 
INSIDE SPORTS 
IIHockey looks for first win seepage26 
IIWomen's cross country at districts see page 25 
•rtsh women sign swimmer see page 26 
A little daylight 
By DAN PIER 
Sports Writer 
If hard times are valuable for teaching us lessons, the seniors on the Notre Dame volleyball team have gotten an education on the court as well in the classroom during their four years here. After the team managed just a 14­17 record their freshman season, things only got worse. Internal strife caused the removal of head coach Art Lambert as the Irish and interim head coach Maria Perez stumbled to 9-27 in 1990. 


Cross country faces challenge 
District meet this weekend 
By SEAN SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
On Saturday, the Notre Dame men's cross country team will face its greatest challenge of the year. The Fighting Irish travel to Bloomington, Ind. to race in the NCAA District meet. The top three teams from the district qualify for the national championships. 
"Notre Dame's district is by far the toughest district in the country," said Irish head coach Joe Piane. "No other district in the country has three teams in the top 12. We have four." 
Those four teams are Michigan, number twelve, Notre Dame, number ten, Eastern Michigan, number nine, and Wisconsin, number two. Only the top three teams from this meet qualify for the national meet, and this year there are four extremely strong teams vying for these positions. 
Notre Dame met two of its strongest competitors, Michigan and Eastern Michigan, in the Notre Dame Invitational earlier this year. In that race the Irish surpassed Michigan by 18 points and edged out Eastern Michigan 
see MEN/page 20 

everybody, but the success has been very much due to the good things they have done as a class." 
·The seniors-Marilyn Cragin, Alicia Turner, Jessica Fiebelkorn, Cynthia May, Andrea Armento and Majenica Rupe-realize how far they have come. Recalling the unhappy season of two years ago, they are making sure they appreciate the good times they have now. 
"It's amazing to see a team change this much in such a short period of time," said 
see V-BALUpage 21 


The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
have led the Irish to a 25-5 mark this year and have set the team up to make its second-ever appearance in the NCAA Tournament. The seniors will play their final home matches in a day-night doubleheader Saturday, facing Duquesne at 10:00 
a.m. and LaSalle at 7:30 p.m. And as far as head coach Debbie Brown is concerned, the class will graduate magna cum laude. 
"The success of the team this year is, in a large part, due to the seniors," Brown explained. "We've had to have strong play from 

The Observer/Rebecca Boucher Cross-country runners Mike McWilliams and John Coyle lead Notre Dame. 
A block from Ray Griggs helps give Jerome Bettis a gaping hole during a win over Brigham Young. Bettis hopes to see holes in Penn State's defense this weekend, as the Irish face the Nittany Lions at Notre Dame Stadium. Game time is 1 :30 p.m. Saturday. 


7

N cd; ~E .f-.~/9 /".n C::: C.o II· ~ . \ £..,0 -~-;/I/ , 0 / i/ I /J-/3-)2....
-F-t· 
-~~ . r-·-..
L vo /, 2~ 



page 2 Notre Dame vs. Penn State Friday, November 13, 1992 
GAME NOTES 

THE GAME: Notre Dame (7-1-1) vs Penn State (6-3). 
KICKOFF: 1:35 p.m. EST. 
TV and RADIO: NBC Sports (Tom Hammond, Cris Collinsworth and John Dockery) will broadcast the game nationally. Mutual Radio Network (Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna) will broadcast the game to a national radio audience. 
TICKETS: Notre Dame Stadium (59,075) is sold out for the 106th consecutive game. 
RANKINGS: Notre Dame: AP: 8th, USA Today/CNN: 8th. Penn State: AP: 22nd, USA Today/CNN: 21st. 
THE SERIES: Penn State leads the series 8-7-1 and has won the last two meetings. This is the final game of the series, as the Nittany Lions begin Big Ten play next year and are replaced with Florida State on the Irish's schedule. 
THE LAST TIME: The Irish were dominated in Happy Valley, as Penn State was up 21-0 before Notre Dame had a first down. The Nittany Lions cruised to a 35-13 win. 
LAST WEEK: Notre Dame crushed then number-nine Boston College. Penn State was idle. 
A Leader By Example 
Demetrius DuBose sets tone for defense 

The Observer/Jake Peters 

Demetrius DuBose, shown here against Stanford, will attempt to lead the defense to another impressive performace tomorrow. 

September 5 September 12 September 19 September 26 October 3 October 10 October 17 October 24 October 31 November 14 November 21 
September 5 September 12 September 19 September 26 October 3 October 10 October 24 October 31 November 7 November 14 November 28 at Cincinnati 
TEMPLE W,48-8 EASTERN MICHIGAN W, 12-7 MARYLAND W, G13 
at ~~ers W, 38-24
Ml I L, 14-17 
BOSTON COLLEGE L, 32-35 at West Virginia W, 40-26 at Brigham Young L, 17-30 at Notre Dame 1:35 EST PITTSBURGH 1:35 EST 
at Northwestern w. 42-7 MICHIGAN T, 17-17 at Michigan State w, 52-31 PURDUE w, 48-0 STANFORD L, 16-33 at Pittsburgh w, 52-21 BRIGHAM YOUNG w, 42-16 at Navy w, 38-7 BOSTON COLLEGE w, 54-7. PENN STATE 1:35 EST at Southern Cal 5:00 PST 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame linebacker Demetrius DuBose has been the center of attention for much of his career. 
On and off the field. 
While opposing offenses have tried-with very little success-to neutralize his impact on a game, DuBose has also been embroiled in some much­publicized controversy off the field. 
A week before the 1991 season-opener against Indiana, DuBose and quarterback Rick Mirer had a questionable run-in with South Bend police at an off-campus party. Hundreds of Notre Dame students face similar situations each year, but because DuBose and Mirer are high-profile football players, it was splashed across sports pages all over the country. 
Controversy reared its ugly head again this season. DuBose missed much of pre-season practice while the NCAA investigated charges that he accepted a loan from a couple representing the University in his hometown of Seattle. This time, the NCAA handed down a two-game suspension, and the Irish were forced to open the season without last year's leading tackler. 
But that is all behind him now, along with most of his college career. What has been a rocky career off the field, has been a remarkable one on the field. 
In the 1991 Blue-Gold game, after playing sparingly in the 1990 season, he gave Irish fans a glimpse of things to come, earning defensive MVP honors after collecting ten tackles. 
The 1991 season saw DuBose develop into one of the nation's best defensive players. Starting in eleven gamf)s, he collected 76 solo tackles and assisted on 51 others to lead the team with a total of 127. 
But DuBose does not want to be remembered by his statistics. 
"When people talk about Chris Zorich, the first thing they mention is how hard he played," he said. "I want people to say the same thing about Demetrius DuBose." 
His effort has never been questioned, and neither has his leadership ability, which earned him co-captain honors for 

"I lead more by example. I'm not one of those guys who goes around yelling at people," DuBose explained, but he is quick to recognize the importance of his position. "It's a special honor to be named captain. You follow in the footsteps of so many great players and people." 
Now it is DuBose who is leaving the footsteps, but it hasn't been an easy road. Throughout the past two seasons, the defense has taken much of the heat for blowing big leads that cost the Irish some games. And as his career winds into its final stages, DuBose wants his legacy to be a memorable one. 
The defense, led by DuBose's six tackles, displayed an impressive turnaround against Boston College, completely shutting down the vaunted Eagle attack, allowing only 11 yards of total offense in the first half. 
This week they will face another tough test when Penn State brings a struggling but potentially explosive offense to South Bend. Despite a recent slump, the Nittany Lions are averaging 35 points and 442 total yards per game. Reserve quarterback Kerry Collins, tailback Richie Anderson and flanker 0. J. McDuffie are Penn State's main offensive threats, but this game could be won on emotion. 
With a national championship seemingly out of their grasp, the Irish have little more than pride to play for, and DuBose is particularly fired up about the opportunity to make up for two straight losses to the Nittany Lions. 
"They beat us twice, once at home," he told the Chicago Tribune. "As soon as we lost to them last year, I circled it on my calendar and said if there's any game I want to play, it will be Penn State. 
"I don't know what you're going to see, but hopefully you'll see a crazed dog out there." 
That's what Irish opponents have grown accustomed seeing when DuBose is across the line of scrimmage. And it is that intensity that made him an all­American and a semifinalist for the Butkus Award last season, two honors he is expected to contend for in 1992. 
"My goal is to be the best linebacker in the country," he commented. "Whatever it takes, I'm going to do it." 
the 1992 season, along with Mirer. That's quite a legacy.
The Observer/Brendan Regan 

~---­
page 3 
Friday, November 13, 1992 Notre Dame vs. Penn State 
Versatile McDuffie aims for record-breaking weekend 


Special to the Observer 
O.J. Me Duffie, Penn State's silky wide receiver and all-pur­pose gamebreaker, is within four catches of becoming the Nittany Lions' leading pass re­ceiver of all-time. 
By the time the fifth-year se­nior from Warrensville, Ohio closes the book on his career, he is likely to own every major Penn State receiving mark. 
"He plays so tough, gets 


KEEP YOUR EYES ON... 


make something happen, even 
when you're losing," Penn State 
coach Joe Paterno said. 
"He is so unselfish. He can literally win a football game all by himself." 
McDuffie has 114 career re­ceptions, second only to Jack Curry, who caught 117 passes from 1965-67. For the season, McDuffie has 53 catches for 819 yards and eight touchdowns. 
These numbers bring him within an eyelash of season marks for receptions (55) and receiving yards (846) estab­lished by Terry Smith last fall. McDuffie could easily break all three records tomorrow against the Irish. 
The eight touchdown catches have tied Smith's record in that category. 
Earlier this season, in Penn State's 35-32 loss to Boston Col­lege, McDuffie set the game marks for catches and yards with 11 receptions for 212 yards. In doing so, he became the first Nittany Lion to crack the 200-yard barrier in receiv­ing. 
"I don't know if there is a bet­ter football player in the coun­try than O.J.," Paterno stated. "It would be tough for anybody to tell me that somebody is bet­ter. I don't know if he is getting the kind of credit that he de­serves." 

To replace Kenny Jackson as Penn State's all-time leading receiver, McDuffie, who is third on the list, needs to average 89 receiving yards in the season's last two games. Jackson accu­mulated 2,006 receiving yards from 1980-83. 
In his Penn State career, Mc­Duffie has 3,495 all-purpose yards. This places him eighth on the Lions' list, but every one ahead of him is a running back. His explosiveness is shown in the fact that he averages 14.6 
. 


LOU BENFATTI 
Senior tackle is right behind teammate Yeboah-Kodie in tackles with 43. Benfatti led the Lions against BYU with eight tackles in the game. 
yards every time he touches the ball. 
McDuffie is also threatening Blair Thomas' single-season record for all-purpose yardage. Thomas gained 1,772 yards in 1987, while McDuffie has 1,509 through nine games. 
Even if McDuffie never gained another yard, his Penn State career would already be a record-breaking one, as he is Penn State's career leader in punt return yardage with 1,014, punt returns for touchdowns in a career with three, and in a season with two. 

RICHIE ANDERSON 

Sophomore tailback is the leading scorer in the nation having scored 17 touchdowns. Anderson went 43 yards on 15 carries against BYU. 
TROY DRAYTON 
Senior tight end has posted impressive numbers for Penn State this year. In the last four games, Drayton has caught 24 passes for 322 yards and one touchdown. 



FaV\tastic Ba~gaiV\s MaV\}' New Jtems 
WiV\ $60 iV\ Me~chaV\dise that yo~ pick! EV\te~ Raffle fov-$1 • 7 ChaV\ces fov-$5 20°/o off all me~chaV\dise wheV\ yo~ eVlte~ v-aftle with 7 chaV\ces! 

OPEN 7 DAYS 
One Dozen Roses for $12 
1169 Scottsdale Mall 1404N. Ironwood Dr. Lower Level 
South Bend, IN 46635 South Bend, IN 46612 
(219) 288..3995 

(219) 291,6745 M,f 7:30,9M,f 10,9 SAT 8,8 
Le}\..1(..\J·,s•)\Jove.•nbe'"" 17 -20 
SAT 10,9 

SUN 10,5 SUN 12,5
;'\Jo-h4 e. I.>cvne. So•4 i~' RocHn, l._ol-ol""h-\J·\e 

CHARGE IT BY PHONE 
)\Jove•-nbe,.4 30-!)ec.e•·nbe,.4 5 

ALL MAJOR CREDIT CARDS 
I I f t I ' 


page 4 Notre Dame vs. Penn State Friday, November 13, 1992 
Penn State ready to bounce back 

caller. Though an injury kept 
State team presents the same en t e lttany IOns ave t e a
Kerry Collins out of action for 
types of problems that past Pa-Probable starters in boldface.

the first half of Penn State's 
ternosquadshavecaused.Longr---------------~-~---R----------~~~---~--~T-E~----------~~--------------~~------~ 
season, he has started the 
known as Linebacker U., Penn Nlttany Lion MO.J.McOIIftle&-11,1'!!1R. 1-111ttlTIIUIUH,

team's last two games, setting 27 Justin WIRiams 5-10, 111, so. 3-thip LaBarca 5·10,
State boasts a mature, ffe ' 

school single-game records for 
TACKLE

experienced corps of players at 0 nse . ::~HIIIIIIIIIf8al-l,211i,
attempts and completions dur­that position in 1992. 54-Marco R1:.a-•. 265, so. --~~ ing the loss to BYU. 
6-4 MO ·.·..
Three seniors and a junior 
~-Gea:s:.;:.·:···.0.~
9Wan·'-..
"We always looked on Collins 
linebackers patrol the defense 
&4.. s .. 

as being their starting quarter­
,
for Penn State this season, in­

back," said Holtz. "He's six-feet­
cluding Phil Yeboah-Kodie,

five, he's got a strong arm, a .
quick release and he's thrown 
tany Lions. Reggie Givens is notvery, very few interceptions this far behind with 44 tackles.

year." 
But the linebackers are not
Collins' primary target is All­
the only strength of Paterno's American candidate O.J. Mc­

defense. Led by right tackle LouDuffie, who is only four catches 

Benfatti, whose name oozes away from becoming Penn 

football toughness, the Nittany

State's all-time leader in recep­
Lion defensive line has held 

tions. McDuffie also does the 
CENTER
opposing teams to 161.3 
77-E.J. liMtilly

chores on special teams as 
1-4, •.SR.
rushing yards per game. 

60 8ucky Greely INSIDE
Penn State's kickoff and punt 
"(Left tackle) Tyoka Jackson 6-3. 266', JR. LINEBACKER 
returner. All of those ball­4t-AIIIIIany
has missed the last couple of ~ FREE SAFETY
handling opportunities have w.m,JR. 21-Bobbr Taylor
games with an ankle injury, but 46·Brian RatiQan 1-3, 1M, FR.
placed McDuffie sixth in the 6-5, 231 , SR. 
29-John Covington
he makes a big difference," said 
6·2, 197, JR.

nation in all-purpose yardage. 
Holtz. 27-Tracy Graham "O.J. McDuffie gives you an 5-10, 177, so.
"We have a lot of trouble

awful lot of problems at wide moving the ball against Pennreceiver," said Holtz. "I don't 
State," said Holtz. "They're al­STRONG SAFETY
know if we'll play anybody any ...,., llllrrls 
ways very solid and they always INSIDE IH,1M,JR.
LINEBACKER
more skilled than O.J. McDuffie. 17-Brian Magee
play us so well on defense. 31-Demetrtus 
5-11, 195, FR.

We've watched him for the last Dvlosl 
1-2, 234, SR.
several years. and as Joe 47-Pete Bereich CORNERBACK
"Penn State is as good a foot­

6-1, 237, JR. 13-Tem carter
Paterno said, he's probably H, 2t4,JII.
ball team year in and year out 
23 laRon Moore

underrated." ""' TIGHT END 
5-9, 1n. so.
as there is in the country. Make 11-,.,., Orlytlll &-3, 228' Sft. 
Irish
Collins will also look to senior 81·Kyte Brady 6-6. 255. JR. 
no mistake about it."

tight end Troy Drayton, who 
defense 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 

Associate Sports Editor 
Penn State had a rough Octo­ber. 
After winning their first five games this fall, the Nittany Lions have dropped three of 

1 Tisen Thomas WR 5-8 SR.

their last four, including losses 
2 Mike Archie TB 5-8 so.

to Boston College and Brigham 
3 Jeff Davis CB 5-11 176 SO.

Young. Though Notre Dame 
3 Chip LaBarca WR 5-10 180 SR.

coach Lou Holtz was able to 
4 Phil Collins WR 5-11 181 JR. 

lead his team to convincing 
5 Craig Fayak K 6-1 190 JR. wins over both of those teams, Joe Paterno 6 Lionel Fayard SAF 5-9 170 so. 
Penn State looms as a huge ob­7 Josh Kroell SAF 6-1 165 so.
has 33 receptions this season. stacle this weekend. 7 V.J.Muscillo 5-8 190 SR.
"Troy Drayton probably has p "I thought that, after watch­4.4 speed," said Holtz. "I don't 8 Ricky Rowe CB 6-0 183 so. 
1 0 Bobby Engram WR 5-10 182 so.

ing them against Miami (the 
think Irv Smith has his speed, 
12 Kerry Collins QB 6-5 220 JR.

Nittany Lions' first loss, 17-14), but you'll see two of the finest 
13 Andrew Joyner WR 5-10 174 FR.

Penn State was the best football tight ends in the country on p
14 Jamie Dreese 5-10 178 SR. team in the country," said Saturday in Drayton and Irv 15 John Van Allen K 6-0 177 SR. Holtz. "I thought they were the Smith." 15 Frank Yeboah-Kodie CB 5-11 182 SR. most impressive football team But the Nittany Lions' offen-16 Brian Geizheiser ILB 6-1 225 JR. I'd seen." 17 Mark Graham CB 5-9 170 SR.
sive strengths are not merely Penn State (6-3) has beaten 17 John Sacca QB 6-2 200 JR.
aerial. The traditional Penn 
18 Troy Drayton TE 6-3 220 SR.

the Irish (7-1-1) the last two State style, of bruising running 
19 Brian King SAF 6-2 184 so.

years, including a 35-13 behind crushing blocks, con­
20 Richie Anderson TB 6-2 210 SR.

thrashing in Beaver Stadium tinues this season. Tailback 
21 Shelly Hammonds ss 5-10 190 SR.

last November. And this year, Richie Anderson's 17 touch-23 Terence Williams FB 5-9 207 SR. Joe Paterno returns to South downs (16 rushing, 1 receiving) 24 O.J.McDuffie WR 5-11 185 SR. Bend with many of the same have made him the nation's 25 Tony Pittman CB 5-8 170 JR. players who have helped defeat leading scorer. 26 Cliff Dingle CB 5-9 188 so. Notre Dame in the past. "In (Richie) Anderson I think 27 Justin Williams WR 5-10 177 so. While Tony Sacca, who led they have excellent tail-28 Jason Gigliotti CB 6-0 192 SR. 
an 29 Brian O'Neal FB 6-1 227 SR.

the Nittany Lions to their last back," said Holtz. "I remember 
30 Thad Brennan ILB 5-11 220 JR.

two victories over the Irish, has last year he really impressed 
32 Ki-Jana Carter TB 5-10 205 so.

moved on, Holtz seems just as me. He reminded me of a lot of 
33 Brian Moser ILB 6-1 228 SR. the great tailbacks that they've 34 Marlon Forbes ss 6-1 199 JR."We have a lot of had that have gone on into the 34 J.T.Morris FB 5-11 211 so. pros." 35 Derek Bochna CB 5-11 188 JR.trouble moving WR 171 so.
36 Eric Gallman 5-6
Anderson will have a solid 
36 Brian Monaghan ILB 6-2 225 SR.
offensive line in front of him 
37 Ivory Gethers ILB 6-1 204 SR.

the ball against 
Saturday to make holes in 
38 Jon Whitman OLB 6-3 220 FR.
Notre Dame's 13th-rated rush­
39 Lee Rubin SAF 5-9 185 SR.

Penn State. ing defense. Though made up of 
40 Stephen Pitts TB 5-11 185 so. relatively small players 41 Geff Kerwin OLB 5-10 203 JR.

They're always 
(ranging between 260 and 285 43 Phil Yeboah-Kodie ILB 6-1 220 JR. pounds), the Penn State line has 44 Brian Milne FB 6-3 226 SO.

very solid and 
45 Brian Kurlej OLB 5-11 203 SR.
earned rave reviews from opponents.

they always play 
"Their offensive line is aw-

us so well on 
fully, awfully good," Holtz said. "I think coach Paterno said it

defense. " 
was the best offensive line they've had. I know that we
-Lou Holtz DEPTH CHARTS 
tried very hard to recruit John c Gerak and Todd Rucci. ..

worried about this year's signal Defensively, this year's Penn Wh h N• l• h 

4 7 Brett Wright ILB 6-1 225 SR. 48 Chris Cisar ss 6-0 188 SR. 48 Carl Gray FB 6-0 228 so. 50 Jeff Hartings G 6-3 242 so. 51 Chris Mazyck NT 6-3 264 SR. 52 Willie Smith ILB 6-1 224 so. 53 Keith Conlin T 6-7 275 SO. 54 Marco Rivera G 6-4 265 so. 55 Lou Benfatti DT 6-3 270 SR. 57 John Gerak G 6-5 278 SR. 58 Reggie Givens OLB 6-0 218 SR. 58 Steve Valahovic G 6-0 238 JR. 59 Mike Fagan DT 6-4 260 JR. 60 Bucky Greeley c 6-3 265 JR. 61 Bart Gahir T 6-3 260 JR. 62 Mike Heller G 6-1 255 SR. 63 Mike Bass T 6-3 275 JR. 64 Perry Pritchard c 6-3 253 JR. 65 Bob Lupo T 6-0 225 JR. 66 Greg Huntington T 6-3 265 SR. 67 Todd Burger T 6-3 270 SR. 69 Derick Pickett T 6-5 275 SR. 70 Bob Ceh KS 6-4 230 SR. 71 Todd Rucci T 6-5 285 SR. 73 Scott Stratton T 6-5 325 SO. 74 Wayne Holmes T 6-6 310 so. 76 Ken Lupoid c 6-3 241 SR. 77 E.J.Sandusky c 6-4 260 SR. 78 Vin Stewart NT 6-3-275 JR. 79 Mike Malinoski G 6-2 260 SR. 80 Rob Holmberg WR 6-3 214 SR. 81 Kyle Brady TE 6-6 255 JR. 82 Jeff Perry OLB 6-3 245 JR. 83 Rick Sayles WR 6-5 215 SR. 83 Justin Wheeler TE 6-1 226 SO. 85 Barry Williams WR 5-7 178 SR. 86 Chad Weaver TE 6-1 226 SO. 89 Eric Clair NT 6-1 255 SO. 90 A.J.Burawski OLB 6-0 205 SO. 91 Andre Johnson DT 6-5 264 so. 93 Todd Atkins DT 6-3 225 SO. 94 Eric Ravotti OLB 6-3 247 SR. 95 Todd Kulka ILB 6-2 195 so. 96 Ryan Grube TE 6-4 228 SR. 97 Tyoka Jackson DT 6-2 255 SR. 98 David Thomas NT 6-2 315 so. 99 Rich McKenzie OLB 6-3 235 SR. 
h b II 


pageSFriday, November 13, 1992 Notre Dame vs. Penn State 

' 
~ 
·· , 

1 Derrick Mayes2 LeShane Saddler 3 Rick Mirer 4 Lee Becton 
5 Paul Failla 6 Jerome Bettis 
7 Dean Lytle8 Clint JOhnson 9 Jeff Burris 
10 Adrian Jarrell 11 Tom MacDonald 
12 Kevin Pendergast13 Tom Carter 13 Matt Johnson 14 Ray Grig~s
14 Stephen ope15 Kevin McDougal16 Chris Pareno 16 Joe Smith 17 Brian Magee1 6 Wade Sm1th 18 Stefan Schroffner 
19 Mark Swenson 19 Jim Guerrera 20 Mark Andrzejewski
20 Lamar Guillory21 Bobby Wclor
22 Shawn ooden ii 22 Rob Leonard 
23 Jeff Baker 23 La Ron Moore 24 Charles Stafford 25 Mike Lalli 25 Brent Boznanski 
26 Drew Marsh 26 Mark Monahan 27 Tracy Graham 
27 Davia Fuentes 28 Craig Hentrich 29 John Covmgton
30 Nick Smith 31 Demetrius DuBose 
32 Willie Clark 33 Gr~Lane 
34 Ray ellars 
35 Matt Adams 36 Jeremy Sample36 Jim ArBabright
37 Travis avis 38 R1ck Lozano 38 Kevin Carretta 39 Matt Lahey40 Reg~ie Brooks 
.~"!} 
41 Joe alley42 Alton Maiden

'""'"~ 
43 Bill Wagasy43 Tim Klusas 
44 Jim Flanigan45 Devon McDonald 45 John ~nch
46 Brian tigan 

DEPTH CHARTS 
When the Irish have the ball 
Probable starters in boldface. 

SPLITENO 
IH.UDIWIOA TACKLE " 1• 202• JR.
65-LIMsa¥ lJIIIIql 1-0errlck Mayes 
H, 217, SR. 6-2•.190, FR. 
70-Mike McGlinn 8-chnt Johnson 
H. 285, JR. lit.. .. 5-8, 180, JR. 
57-Bernard ManniiiY 6-4.273, SR. 
GUARD 
75-Airon TaytorH,219,JR. 
QUARTERBACK 59-Lance Johnson 
3-Aicl! Mini' 1-2. 6-1, 265,~
15-Kevin McDougal 
5-Paul Failla 
6·2,193, so. 
CENTER 81-TIIIIIIIMify
1-3, 211, JR. 
78-Jonfan Itaim 
6-7,f92. SR. 
INSIDE-'
lEFT TACKLE LINEBACKER
17 frokl Jacbon ..7-lnll Wrlgldf-2, 225, SR. 1-1,225, SR.
93-Todd Atklns 52 Willie Smith
6·3. 225. so. 
6-1,224, SO.

TIGHT END M-lrwSmlttl ......... &-I, 253, 8ft. . 
OUTSIDE 
~ 80-()scar McBride 
LINEBACKER
6-5, 251, JR. 
51-RIItfl Glwfta
98-Peter Chryplewicz 
H,211SR.
6-5, 235, FR. 
16 Brian Geizheiler
88-L.eon Wallace 
6-1, 225. JR.
6-3. 268, FR. 



OUTSIDE~ 
LINEBACKER 
11-Ricll MeKenzlt 
6-3, 235, SR. 
89 Eric Clair 
6-1,225. so. 
~ . FREE SAFETY 
39-LHRHitl H,115,SR. 48-Chris Cisar 6-D. 188, SR. 
.STRONG SAFETY 35-Denlt lltcllna 5-11,1A,JR .. 46-Marlon Factlll 6-1. 199,_JR. 
Nftt.F~Y Uon ....~ . defense 
... ~ '. 

Paterno motivated by move to Big Ten 
never been to the Rose Bowl. I don't know what it's like. I'm

COMMENTARY 
excited, maybe more than I have been in a lot of years."
By JIM VOGL 
Yet perhaps Paterno's look of 
Assistant Sports Editor 
confidence behind those hazy Coke-bottle glasses is only a fa-

The winds of change are cade. Behind him, a school 
blowing in college football, steeped in tradition seems to be 
wisping major independent escaping from its roots, and a 
Penn State to the midwestern venerable coach from his roots. 
magnet conference, the Big Penn State will terminate its 
Ten. relationships with long-time ri-
Since the Miami Hurricanes vals Pittsburgh, Syracuse, West 
landed in the Big East, it means Virginia, Maryland and Boston 
Notre Dame remains the lone College. Who knows what will 
standing pedestal not affiliated become of previously capacity 
with a conference. It also crowds (93,715, second-largest 
means yet another football stadium in college football) dur­
powerhouse has flown the coup ing Big Ten battles void of tradi­
from Notre ·Dame's schedule. tion or regional rivalry? More 
Tomorrow's game will be the than likely, the move will spell 
last in a 12-year series between deteriorating alumni support. 
the Irish and Nittany Lions. When he was voted Sports 
Some Irish fans will breathe a Illustrated's "Sportsman of the 
sigh of relief. Since 1981, Penn Year" six years ago, Paterno 
State's head coach Joe Paterno stood as the patriarch of 
has victimized Notre Dame, nobility for running such a 
taking eight wins against only successful, clean program. But 
t h r e e then, a series of 
losses, incidents 
including have tar-
em bar-image. His 
rassment status as an 
at frigid tv educator 
B e aver also fell 
StadiumCONFERENCEwith ~he 
1 a s t NCAA published report statmg 
season. that the school graduated just 
But like someone who misses 56 percent of football players 
a rude ex-neighbor who has who enrolled in 1983 and 1984 
moved up and out, most Irish (sixth among 11 Big Ten 
fans will probably miss their ri-schools). 
val deep down. They will miss 
the constant challenge, the 
And to be truthful, Penn State

pain, the irritation, the warm 
football appears a long shot forfeeling of hatred. 
"the Grand Daddy of them all"

This same hatred could now 
next season, when all but threemanifest itself in hidden envy. 

of this year's starters will be
Yes, envy. 
lost to graduation.

Both football programs tradi­As teams like Michigan State, 
tionally created envy among 
Illinois and Ohio State return to

competitors for their elite 
form, how will Paterno react tostanding-the way they drew hot playing a solid schedule, game­prospects (even from California 

in, game-out? Remember,

and Florida) with big IQ's to Paterno is just 10-29 againsttheir frozen tundras, the way 
teams that finished in the top

their alumni provided loyal, 
10).

bountiful support, the way they expressed an attitude of superi­
One thing that cannot be
ority. 
questioned is Paterno's power­

Last season, in signing an 
ful dedication to his employer

exclusive deal with network 
for the past 32 years. A devout television, Notre Dame proudly fund-raiser, he has also donated

one-upped their independent 
$350,000 uut of his own pocketrival. 
for the school's needy library.

If anything, Big Ten affiliation And his career record of 240­
will provide Penn State with 62-91 says enough about hisguaranteed television coverage 
contribution to the football

and rock-solid financial stability program. He intends to ride theand in effect, replacing them on Big Ten wave until age 70. 
an elite plane with the Fighting But maybe Paterno's desire toIrish. But that's where the envy join the Big Ten is really that ofshould end. 
an old, weary man groping for

At age 65, Paterno doesn't something on which to lean. 
appear exhausted by the ardu­
Before it's over, perhaps the 

ous transition to the Big Ten. 
wind will be the only thing

Rather, he appears invigorated. 
holding him up. 

"In 42 years, I've never 
And in the face of this wind,

coached in a conference," he Notre Dame's legacy as an in­
told The Sporting News. ''I've dependent still stands strong. 

ox: 
Production: Melissa Cusack Design: Mike Scrudato Graphics: Kevin Hardman 
...,..",,· ... ,.,,. ·Brendan Regan 
Lab Tech: Macy Huenckel 


page 6 Notre Dame vs. Penn State Friday, November 13, 1992 
Lindsay Knapp always looking for extra weight 


By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
Just a few more pounds. 
Not many people around want what Notre Dame offensive lineman Lindsay Knapp is looking for. 
While William "The Refrigerator" Perry is trying to lose the pounds, Notre Dame offensive lineman Lindsay Knapp would be happy to take the weight off Perry's hands (and hips). 
Knapp has been trying to keep the scales tipping more towards the heavier side since high school, but it has been difficult. 
"It's a never-ending struggle for me to gain weight. I'm never 
"I want to dominate and physically pound them. Alot of times, only you and your coach will know (if a lineman excels). " 
-Lindsay Knapp 
as heavy as I want to be, said Knapp. 
"I played basketball in high school and I was never a big guy." 
Currently, not a small man at somewhere around 280 pounds, Knapp would like to get up into the 290's along with most of the National Football Leagues's offensive tackles. 
Notre Dame offensive coach Joe Moore is comfortable with Knapp's weight for Notre Dame's purposes, but agrees that, with a few more pounds, Knapp will fit right into the NFL. 
"The pros want him to weigh more and that would just come gradually. He's just going to all 13 games last year. This experience has enabled him to become an accomplished blocker both on the run and on the pass. He has learned the differences and the similarities of the two blocks. 


"There is a big difference between pass blocking and run blocking obviously. The run is more of a dominating block and the pass block is more of a finesse block, but they have their similarities. You can dominate a player with both blocks," said Knapp, known to be a tenacious blocker. 
Although the offensive line is not a position that boasts statistics or records, it is a 
challenging  position  that  
provides  a  more  hands-on  
satisfaction.  

"You really have to concentrate. You have a lot of assignments and have to know what you are doing," said Knapp. "The other teams throw a plethora of defenses at us. We have to be mentally prepared. 
"There's not really tangible goals. I want to dominate and physically pound on them. A lot of times, only you and your coach will know (if a lineman excels). You have to be a self­motivated person and be responsible for what you do." 
The Deerfield, Ill native has been motivated in everything he has done since his high school days. As a prep star, the gentle giant was named to the high­school All-American team by Parade and along with some of his Irish teammates was rated one of the top 100 incoming freshmen in 198 7. 
Knapp has also been motivated in the classroom. After graduating from the College of Arts and Letters in the fall of 1991, Knapp is in his second semester of classes in the MBA program. 
"He's a great kid and an excellent student," concluded Moore. "He's just a top-shelf type person." 
contiue to grow, said Moore. 
"Pro teams like them a little bigger. They draft more on size then on talent." 
For the most part, Knapp has been pleased with his work in the left tackle slot. In terms of strengths and weaknesses, the fifth-year senior is comfortable with his strengths. 
"I think I'm relatively quick compared to other guys and I have a relative degree of athletic ability," said Knapp. 
Moore cites Knapp's toughness, outstanding athletic ability and excellent attitude as reasons for his success on the line. 
"He has really come along for us. He's had a good year so far and wants to finish it up right. I'm quite sure he will," said Moore. 

Returning to the Irish offense this year as the most experience lineman, Knapp has been lucky to last this far into the season more or less injury-free while the line has featured a merry­go-round of new faces filling in when injuries struck and old faces returning to action. 
He has started all of the Irish football games this season after being on the starting lineup for 
HOURS 
M...Wed ... 11:00am ... 1:00am Thur ... 11:00am ... 2:00am Fri...Sat ... 11:OOam ... 4:00am Sun...Noon ... 1:00am 
Friday, November 13, 1992 Notre Dame vs. Penn State page 7 
McGill is now drawing attention with his talent 
ByGEORGEDOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
In his three seasons with 
Notre Dame, Karmeeleyah 
McGill's name is one that has 
stood out on the roster. But 
thanks to some impressive play 
on the field this season it his 
performance on the football 
field, not his name, which is 
getting noticed. 
McGill, a six-foot-three, 280­pound defensive end, was better known for his interesting name than his performance during his first three seasons with the Irish. He earned monograms in both his freshman and sophomore seasons, due mostly to special team appearances. 
It was not until the end of last season, however, that the Clearwater, Fla. native became a force for the Notre Dame de­fense. After seeing action in all thirteen games on special teams and at drop end, McGill got the his first start against Hawaii in the regular season finale and responded with four tackles. 
But in Sugar Bowl win over Florida that McGill showed what he was capable of con­tributing to the Irish defense. In coach Lou Holtz's altered de­fensive front, McGill was one of only three defenders rushing Gator quarterback Shane 
Mathews. He responded by 
sacking Mathews twice, deflect­
ing a pass, and tallying six 
tackles in the 39-28 Notre 
Dame victory. 
"I thought I made the plays I was asked to," said McGill. "I had played the position before and in practice, so it wasn't that difficult to step in and do well." 
After his strong showing against Florida, much was ex­pected of McGill coming into the 1992 season, and he has lived up to the expectations. After nine games, seven of which he started, McGill ranks sixth on the team in tackles with 45 and also has three sacks. 
"I think I've played well," he said. "But I am my own worst critic, and I think I can improve. I just go out there and try as hard as I can and handle my responsibilities." 
McGill joins with fellow de­fensive end Devon McDonald to give the Irish an impressive outside pass rush. In last week's win over Boston College, the bookends of the Irish defense continually pressured Eagle quarterback Glenn Foley, resulting in hurried passes and three first quarter sacks. 
"There is definitely going to be more performances like last Saturday's," added McGill. "The whole defense knew their assignments and played well." 
Off the field, McGill must deal with his workload as a man­agement major and also the demands of his religion. McGill is the only member of the foot­ball team of the Muslim faith, and one of a small group on campus. 
His religion sometimes con­flicts with his football commit­ments, but he is allowed flexi­bility in his commitments to the Irish defense when his religion calls. 

"Anytime I need to miss practice because of my religion its allowed," he said. "But other than a few occasions there re­ally haven't been too many -· times." 
Saturday's matchup with Penn State gives the Notre Dame defense an opportunity to continue to make a name for itself (McGill withstanding). Partial responsibility for the containment of Nittany Lion quarterback Kerry Collins and running back Richie Anderson will fall into McGill's hands. 

"My assignments are too stop the run, and to fall back into pass coverage during passing downs,., commented McGill. "As a team, our main goal is to stop the run, which has been our goal every week." The Observer/Jake Peters 

Karmeeleyah McGill has been the victim of more than this hold. 
RESTAURANT & LOUNGE -OPEN SUNDAYS­ELKHART SOUTH BEND 2425 Cassopolis St. 127 N. Main St. (219) 264-0183 (219) 288-5565 Specializing in Barbequed Baby Back Ribs APPETIZERS SWEET THEJ\TS Tn our Ikq> Frwd Carrot Cake. NewAlli!.~.ttor ( .tlam.tn Hi11~-;. Shrimp "Known for the Best York Chccs<·c·;liH'('(}( kt.dl. Mozz.trdl.t dlld More!Sllcks & More! Food in Town and All Around"  Official Travel Headquarters for N.D. B()wl Gatne U.S .C. Trips Still Available ANTHONY TRAVEL, INC. LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER T·he ()fficial Nf)tre [)at11e Tra\lel Service 239~ 7080 • 1~800, 7~ lJOMERS  


Ciatne Day Spec· 

r-----------, r;-----------11 r-----------, r-----------,
4..14" Large Late f:.i:~~~~;ecial 2..14" Large 1--14" Large 1 Topping Pizza 
1 Topping 1~14" Large Cheese 

with Stix and 2
Pizzas 1 Topping Pizza Pizzas 

soft drinks 
$1995 $595 $995 
+Tax +Tax +Tax 

$10°0 
+Tax Additional toppings 95¢ each. Additional toppings 95¢ each. Additional toppings 95¢ each. Additional toppings 95¢ each. Not valid with any~ Not valid with any= Not valid with any~ Not valid with any~ other coupon. .I othercoupon. ~. other coupon. • other coupon. tiii.MD~
L-----------..1 L-----------..1 L-----------..1 L-----------..1 

Fast • Hot • Ferfect 
271~1177 

. 
. . . .. . . . .. 
-' ' ' I 
' 
. ' : : 
I I f I • ! t / 1 t , I : I ( I • 1 ,1 : ~ 1 , 1 , 

1 ' ' ., 

page 8 Notre Dame vs. Penn State Friday, November 13, 1992 
Flanigan finds a home on line 
By JONATHAN JENSEN even wanted to play football or Flanigan of his parents. "There Sports Writer not." was no pressure to play any Today, after a year of perse­sports at all. Everything used to com~ so verance and sacrifice, Flanigan ''I'm very proud personally easy for Jim Flanigan. has changed his tune. that they just encouraged me 
At Southern Door high school "I think it was really the best without any pressure. That in Brussels. Wise., Flanigan was thing for me," said Flanigan. "It really just came from within." a Parade All-American, his really helped my chances and There is no doubt where he team won a state championship I'm playing a lot better." inherited that competitive fire in his senior year, and he was Flanigan claimed the starting from. ranked first in his class with a nose guard spot over Oliver ''I'm a really competitive per­
3.97 grade point average. He Gibson in the second game of son." stated Flanigan. "And I even won three state champi­the season and has not looked think I got that from them, onships in both the shot put and back since. He has tallied 29 that's one way they infl~enced discus for the track team and solo tackles and three-and-a­me." lettered for the basketball team. half sacks. Flanigan's competitive nature 
His success continued in his The success of the transition also spilled into the classroom, freshman year at Notre Dame, is a testament to Flanigan's in­as the former valedictorian where he saw action in nine ner strength. but it did take a earned a 3.73 grade-point av­games while being tutored by lot of getting used to. In addi­erage during the spring former Irish All-American tion to changing his mind set of semester to make the Dean's Michael Stonebreaker, and was an inside linebacker into the List. Flanigan now boasts a penciled in at the starting attitude of an interior lineman, cumulative GPA of 3.03. linebacker slot in just his he has also endured some "I wanted to be the first one sophomore season. physical changes. After starting from my high school to get a 
Everything was falling into his college career at around 235 Division I scholarship," noted place for Flanigan, as it looked pounds, he now tips the scales Flanigan, "And I realized you as if he might follow in his fa­at 270 pounds. had to get good grades to do ther's footsteps into the NFL, "It changed my wardrobe that. I just tried to be the best where he was a linebacker for mostly, because I had to buy all student I could." four seasons with the Green Bay. new clothes," noted Flanigan. a As for his future as a defen­Packers in the late sixties. Sturgeon Bay, Wise. native, sive lineman, Flanigan says he 
Then came last season. "And sometimes I look in the is looking forward to improving 
After three less than than mirror and I .don't feel like the his skills and giving himself a spectacular showings at the same person. But my body is chance to play at the next level. starting linebacker slot, Flani­getting used to it." "Next year will be a big year gan was asked to bolster a de­Although the change ensured for me because I'll have a full pleted Irish front by becoming a there would not be another Jim year of experience and I'll be defensive lineman. He was Flanigan playing linebacker in able to use my talents and distraught and unsure of his the NFL, that was just fine for techniques more," said Flani­abilities. It was the lowest point Flanigan since he has never gan. ''I'd like to make it to the of his football career. been pressured to follow his fa­NFL, but right now I just want 
"It was a real hard time for ther's career path. to play up to my potential. me," noted Flanigan. "I didn't "They didn't push me at all, That's the biggest thing. if I do
: l 
know what to do, whether I they just encouraged me," said that everything else will follow." 
' 
) 
! ' (i NCAA FOOTBALL SCHEDULE DEMETRIUS DuBOSE by Steve Duenes 
Morgan St. (2-7) at Howard U. (5-4) Purdue (3-6) at Michigan St. (4-5)
Saturday, Nov. 14 
Prairie View (0-9) at Jackson St. (6-3), Night Kansas St. (4-4) at Missouri (1-8} 

I . EAST 
Delaware St. (6-3) at Liberty (6-4) Western Illinois (7-3) at Northern Iowa (8-1) Northern Illinois (5-4) at Army (3-5)

I 
Tennessee Tech (7-2) at Marshall (6-3) Penn St. (6-3) at Notre Dame (7-1-1)Syracuse (8·1) at Boston College (7·1·1)

I 
Clemson (5-4) at Maryland (2-8) Illinois St. (4-6) at Southeast Missouri St. (2·7)Connecticut (4-5) at Boston U. (1·8) Sam Houston St. (6-2-1) at McNeese St. (6-3) Eastern Michigan (1-9) at Toledo (6·3) 

I 
Dartmouth (6·2) at Brown (0·8) Tennessee (5-3) at Memphis St. (5-4) Central Mich. (5-5) at Western Mich. (6-3-1)

l 
Lafayette (6·3} at Bucknell (3·6) 
Temple (1-8) at Miami (8·0) Minnesota (1-8) at Wisconsin (4-5)
Holy Cross (4·5} at Colgate (4-5) Morehead St. (3-6) at Middle Tennessee St. (7-2) SOUTHWEST

I 
Cornell (7·1) at Columbia (1 · 7) 

I 
Louisiana Tech (5-4) at Mississippi (6·3) Oklahoma (5-3-1) at Oklahoma St. (4-5)
Maine (5·4) at Massachusetts (7-1) Alabama (9·0) at Mississippi St. (7-2). Night Baylor (5-4) at Rice (4-4) 
Vanderbilt (3·5) at Navy (1·7) Tennessee St. (3-6) at Murray St. (2-7) North Texas {3-6) at Southwest Texas St. (5-4)
Harvard (2·6) at Penn (5·3) Duke (2-7) at North Carolina St. (7-2-1) Southern Methodist (4-5) at Texas (5-3)
Louisville (4·6} at Pittsburgh (3·6) Stephen F. Austin (3·6) at NE Louisiana (7-2), Texas Tech (3-6) at Texas Christian (2-6-1)
New Hampshire (3·5·1) at Rhode Island (1-8) Nicholls St. (1-7-1) at NW Louisiana (5-4), Night FAR WEST
West Virginia (4·3·2) at Rutgers (5-4) Delaware (8-1) at Richmond (6-3) Brigham Young (6-4) at Air Force (7·3)
Northeastern (5-3-1) at Towson St. (4-4) Texas Southern (5·4) at Southern U. (3-5), Night California (4-5) at Arizona St. (4-5), Night 
Fordham (1-7) at Villanova (7-2) Samford (7-2) at Tennessee-Martin (3-6) Ohio U. (1-9) at Colorado St. (3-7)
Princeton (7-1 ) at Yale ( 4-4) Furman (5-4) at Tennessee-Chattanooga (2-7) Boise St. (5-4) at Eastern Washington (6·3) 
SOUTH Southern Mississippi (6-4) at Virginia Tech (2-6-1) Montana St. (4-5) at Idaho (7-2) 
Miss. Valley St. (4·4) at Alabama St. (3-6}. Night East Tenn. St. (5-4) at Western Carolina (6-3) Southern Utah (1-1) at Idaho St. (3-6), Night 
North Carolina A&T (8-1) at Appalachian St. (5-4) Lehigh (3-6) at William & Mary (7-2) Hofstra (4-5) at Montana (4-5)
Georgia (7-2} at Auburn (5-3-1) 
MIDWEST Minnesota-Duluth (5-4-1) at N. Arizona (3· 7) 
Eastern Kentucky (7-2} at Austin Peay (2-7) Youngstown St. (7 -2) at Akron (6-3) Utah St. (4-5) at Nevada (5-4)
Norfolk St. (3-6) at Bethune-Cookman (1-7} 
Ball St. (5-5) at Bowling Green (8-2) Texas-EI Paso (1-8) at New Mexico (2-7) James Madison (4-6} at Central Florida (5-3) Kentucky (4-5) at Cincinnati (2·7) Cal St.-Fullerton (2-7) at New Mexico St. (4-5)
S.C. St. (6-3) vs. Charleston Southern (3-6} Western Kentucky (3-5) at Eastern Illinois (4-6) UCLA (4-5) at Oregon (5-4)

i VMI (2-7} at Citadel (8-1) 
Ohio St. (7-2) at Indiana (5-4) San Jose St. (6-3) at Pacific U. (3-6)

i Arkansas St. (1-8} at East Carolina (4-5) Southwest Missouri St. (6-3) at Indiana St. (3-6) Hawaii (7·1) at San Diego St. (4-3-1 ), NightSouth Carolina (4-5} at Florida (6-2) 
Northwestern (2· 7) at Iowa (4-6) Arizona (6-2·1) at Southern Cal (5-2-1)Grambling St. (7-2) at Florida A&M (7-2), Night Nebraska (7·1) at Iowa St. (3·6} Washington St. (7-2) at Stanford (7-3) Tulane (2-7) at Florida St. (8-1)

. I 
Colorado (7-1-1) at Kansas (7·2) Wyoming (5-5) at Utah (5·4) Troy St. (8-1) at Georgia Southern (7 ·2) Kent (2·8) at Miami, Ohio (5-4·1) Oregon St. ( 1-7-1) at Washington (8-1) Wake Forest (6-3) at Georgia Tech (5-4) Illinois (5-4} at Michigan (8-0-1) 

: . I ~ I 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS (PLEASE, NO WAGERING) 
Each week during football season. The Observer sports staff, AI Lesar of the South Bend Tribune and a guest prognosticator predict the outcomes of the week's major

I ! 
) college football games. Records ) are compiled as to how each Jenny Marten Jim Vogl AI Lesar Jahnelle Mike Scrudato Rolando de Rich Kurz 








I 
person does against the spread. Associate Assistant Sports South Bend Harrigan Sports Editor Aguiar Associate l \ Home teams are in CAPS. Sports Editor Editor Tribune Accent Editor 50-60-2 Associate Sports Editor I 58-52-2 56-54-2 55-55-2 Last week's Sports Editor 46-64-2 
guest: 9-5-0 49-61-2
l
I MICHIGAN 26 over Illinois lllini Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Syracuse 4 over BOSTON COL Eagles Orangemen Eagles Orangemen Orange men Eagles Eagles FLORIDA 16 over S. Carolina Gators Gators Gators Gators Gators Gators Gators 
I 
~ 
Georgia 8.5 over AUBURN Tigers Bulldogs Bulldogs Tigers Tigers Bulldogs Bulldogs Colorado 2.5 over KANSAS Buffaloes Buffaloes Jay hawks Buffaloes Buffaloes Jay hawks Jayhawks Nebraska 27 over IOWA STATE Huskers Huskers Huskers Huskers Huskers Huskers Huskers Alabama 11.5 over MISS. STATE Tide Tide Bulldogs Tide Bulldogs Tide Bulldogs STANFORD 8 over Wash. State Cardinal Cougars Cardinal Cardinal Cardinal Cardinal Cougars WASHINGTON 34 over Ore. St. Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies Beavers Huskies Huskies MIAMI 43 over Temple Owls Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes USC 2.5 over Arizona Wildcats Trojans Trojans Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats SAN DIEGO ST. 4 over Hawaii Aztecs Aztecs Aztecs Aztecs Rainbows Rainbows Rainbows Baylor 2 over RICE Owls Bears Bears Owls Bears Owls Bears NOTRE DAME 10 over Penn State Irish Irish Nittany Lions Irish Irish Nittany Lions Irish 
' i 
------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
















