The Observer 
VOL. XXXiV. NO. 34 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Barnes, Germond debate Germond: over upcoming election Bush needs 
By SANDY WIEGAND phy. Assistant News Editor Germond characterized both 
surprise act 
candidates as unresponsive to 

Two McLaughlin Group the public's desire for discus­By FRANK RIVERA members came to Notre Dame sions about substantive issues, Assistant News Editor to spar about the 1992 presi­a desire he said was evident in dential candidates Wednesday, the attention given to primary Journalists are expecting a but both Jack Germond and election candidates, including surprise in October from Presi­Fred Barnes began their com­former Massachusetts senator dent George Bush, according to ments with disclaimers about Paul Tsongas, who made con­Baltimore Evening Sun writer 
the candidates they were sup­crete proposals. Jack Germond, speaking at a posed to be defending. Bill Clinton is "carrying pretty press conference last night be­"George Bush ... probably heavy baggage," Germond said, fore his debate with Fred doesn't deserve to be re­but, unlike Bush, is "willing to Barnes of the New Republic. 
elected, but I think the Ameri­talk about some specific issues Bush's desperate position can people probably deserve in some specific ways." only one month before the something better than Bill But, according to Barnes, if election calls for a surprise, Clinton and the Democratic the candidates were judged not said Germond, who represents 
Party," said Barnes, who rep­on the basis of their perfor­the liberal point of view on resented the debate's conser­mances while in office, but by PBS' The McLaughlin Group vative viewpoint. their plans for the next four opposite Barnes. 
Barnes writes for The New years, Bush would be the clear Barnes was unable to attend Republic and appears fre­winner in the eyes of the public. the press conference. quently on CNN's Crossfire. The president has the However, "a foreign adven­
Germond, offering a liberal "better" and "the more popu­ture would be cynical," Ger­viewpoint, is a reporter for the lar" stances on the issues most mond said. "It wouldn't work." Baltimore Evening Sun and has important to Americans, Barnes Bush is a tenacious politician, covered national elections since said. According to him, the he added, so writers "don't the 1960s. Both are regulars on issues are taxes, government know what they're waiting for." 
the political panel program The spending, the role of gov­With the national television McLaughlin Group, aired on ernment, free trade, school appearance of Ross Perot last PBS. choice and legal reform. night, Bush and Democratic 
The debate consisted of Bush may have made the candidate Bill Clinton are being opening statements by the mistake of turning 'away from forced to address the deficit, commentators and questioning Reaganomics, Barnes added, Germond said. by a panel of professors fol­but Clinton "wants to do more In this sense, "Perot is a fac­lowed by the audience. The of what Bush did." tor , " he said. "He throws the 
panel consisted of Robert cards on the table." Schmuhl, American Studies Increased taxes would only But, Perot dealt only with the chair. Rev. Timothy Scully, as­mean more money wasted by "diagnosis" and not the
Fred Barnes, a writer for The New Republic, speaks for the 
sistant professor of govern­"corrupt urban political ma­"medicine," Germond said. It
conservative point of view in The Mclaughlin Group debate where the 
ment, and Wesley Kirkpatrick, chines," he said. does, however, force the candi­
merits of presidential candidates George Bush and Bill Clinton were assistant professor of philoso-see DEBATE/page 4 argued. dates to address the important issues, and to create possible solutions to problems, rather than avoiding them, he added. 


Candidates' economic plans to open job market 
Perot's Tuesday night ap­By PAUL PEARSON ran, will help the small busi­trepreneurs to take risks, and pearance affirmed the growing nesses who need tax relief the reward those with the patience, importance of television as the
Associate News Editor 
* * * * * * * * *'* 

most, which will, in turn, gen­the courage and the determi­force in setting the agenda for At a time when many seniors ELECTION 192 erate jobs in these businesses. nation to create new jobs," ac­how campaigns are run, he are starting to think about their A series on issues "The President has tailored cording to Jim Blassingame, said. 
after-college careers, the major his economic policies to cut press secretary for the Clin­The television networks have presidential candidates are affecting students burdensome federal mandates, ton/Gore campaign. been irresponsible in the way both offering economic plans and to help small businesses get Clinton has also called for the they have handled appearances
created 500,000 jobs this year," 

which they claim will lead to better access to capital," he development of new environ­by the candidates and must be
according to Jim Doran, press 

more American jobs. said. mental technologies and for a more careful, according to 
secretary for the Bush/Quayle

President Bush is offering a Gov. Bill Clinton has also of­plan to help small defense con­Germond.
campaign.

plan that includes tax credits fered an economic plan geared tractors to convert their indus­"If a politician has something
Bush has also proposed the

for first-time homebuyers, a toward helping small busi­tries into peacetime uses. to say, he calls a press confer­
creation of Skills Grant Vouch­

reduction in the capital gains nesses. His plan calls for new "Many of the skills and tech­ence," he said. "The reporters
ers, which would give displaced 

tax, and an increased federal tax credits for long-term in­nologies required to rebuild decide what the news is."
workers up to $3,000 in vouch­

investment in research and de­vestments, research and do­America are similar to those Otherwise, Gerond said, the 
ers "to gain new skills in a col­

velopment. mestic investments and now used in our defense indus­candidate is allowed to provide
lege or trade school," Doran 

equipment. tries," Blassingame said. anything he has to say as news.
"Had the President's growth 
said.

plan been passed by the Demo­
This plan, according to Do­

cratic Congress, it would have 

GSU to double funding for Quality of Life group 

Clinton's plan "will encourage small business people and en-see JOBS/page 6 see PRESS/page 6 
Professors give advice on graduate school 
By KENYA JOHNSON 
"Working in the academic life News Writer enables you to work on your own projects and do the activi­
Working in the higher educa­ties you want to do," Day said. tion field is wonderful because Hatch also advised students it is challenging, fulfilling and on the graduate school applica­rewarding, according to Nathan tion process. Hatch, vice president of "You've . got the GRE's graduate studies, speaking in a (Graduate Record Exam), your panel discussion yesterday ti­academic record, your state­tled, "What is Graduate Educa­ment of intent and your rec­
tion and Is It For Me?". ommendations," he said. "The 
Hatch was accompanied by only thing that distinguishes so colleagues, Kevin Christiano, many excellent applicants from associate professor of sociology, I ' one another are the recom­Jeanne Day, associate professor Jeanne Day mendations from professors." of psychology, and Chris Vanden professor, he added. Vanden Bossche emphasized Bossche, associate professor of "It's a very people-oriented the importance of the statement English. job," he said. "You have your of intent. 
Today, entry-level jobs in students and the other faculty "The other things you really higher education at major uni­members. There's a lot of peo­don't have control over," he versities are around $35,000, ple interaction and I like that." said. "Your statement will be 
and tenured professors reach Hatch also spoke of the free­the only part of the application around $60,000-$75,000 a dom that a professor has. solely from you." year, Hatch said. "You have the freedom to "Surprisingly, most students 
But money is not the only nor read, write, discuss and pre­don't take advantage of it and the best reward for being a pare what you want," he said. see PANEUpage 6 
By SARAH DORAN News Writer 
The Graduate Student Union (GSU) passed a resolution at last night's meeting that will double its funding of its Quality of Life Committee (QLC), a committee that fo­cuses on the issue of child care at Notre Dame. 
The QLC's ultimate goal is to have the University open an on-site child care facility by the fall of 1993 that will serve the staff. faculty and graduate student's child care needs. 
The committee has already been successful at forcing the administration to address the needs of child care by precipi­tating the formation of the University Committee on Child 
Care by the Offirn of the Provost in March of 92. 
Representatives oi the QLC stated that the committee war­ranted the budget increase be­cause of the need to increase its outlets that serve to inform those interested in its cause. 
Their main method of publi­cizing their cause is through advertisements run in The Ob· server. Due to the high cost of these advertisements, QLC was not able to run as large an amount of advertisements as it desired. 
The GSU approved a $1,000 budget for the Women's Re· source Committee and voted to create an ad hoc committee for the Travel Committee. 
The ad hoc committee will 
see GSU/page 4 


page 2 
WARM STATIONARY 


Americans after the year 2000? 55 percent said "Greater." 
Will the Second Coming of Jesus Christ occur in the next thousand years? 53 percent answered "Yes. " 
(From a survey of 800 American adults taken or Time/CNN by Yankelovich Inc. Sampling error in+ or-3.5 percent) 
Today's Staff: 
News  Systems  
Julie Barrett  Matt Carbone  
Jennifer Habrych  
Scoreboard  
Production  Samantha  
Kathy Fong  
Whitney Sheets  Illustrator  
Dave  
Sports  
Jonathan Jensen  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Rome 73 64 Seattle 60 46 South Bend 70 36 Tokyo 66 50 RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE Washington, D.C. 63 43 
iL----------' 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
Mother sues because child cannot read 
•SANTA ANA, Calif.-The mother of a 10-year-old boy who made it to the fifth grade without being able to read or write filled a lawsuit seeking to close her son's school down. Lourdes Gutierrez maintains that her son, Roberto, suffered humiliation among his classmates be­cause educators at Glenn Martin Elementary School did not teach him properly. Her lawsuit, filed last week against the Santa Ana Unified School District, asks that the school be closed and that the money used to operate it be given as vouchers to students to pay for private school education. Roberto Gutierrez's first language is Spanish. His mother said she decided not to enroll him in a bilingual education program because she wanted him to learn English. 
NECO puts bounty on O'Connor albums 
•NEW YORK-The National Ethnic Coalition of Organizations (NECO) has put a $10 bounty on Sinead O'Connor albums. The coalition, upset that the Irish singer ripped up a picture of Pope John Paul II during an appearance on "Saturday Night Live," will donate $10 to charity on behalf of 

anyone who sends in one of her records, cassettes or 
OF INTEREST 
•"Ghandi", the movie, will be shown tonight at 6:30 
p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune Student Center, courtesy of Pax Christi-NO. Admission is free. 
•Hall 
Athletic Commissioners, clubs and organiza­tions wishing to reserve weekly basketball court time at Stepan Center must attend a scheduling meeting today at 4 p.m. in Montgomery Theatre, first Floor, LaFortune Student Center. 

•Questions 
about Graduate School and the ap­plication process will be addressed in a presentation today at 4 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING October 7 
VOI.Ut\IE IN SIIAHES NYSEINOEX 11<3.1 I0,000 ·1.25 to 222.84 

S&P COMPOSITE ·2.80 to 404.77 
DOW JONES INDUSTHIJ\LS 
-25.'l4lo :1,152.2!i

L'\'CIIA\'GED 
(,2S 

COLD + 0.90 to 5351.00 
SII.VEH 
• 0.01 to 53.72:1 
Thursday, October 8. 1992 
FORECAST 
Mostly cloudy with an 80 percent chance of afternoon showers. High in the upper 60s. Lows in the upper 40s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City H L Anchorage 45 38 Atlanta 68 50 Bogota 64 4t Boston 53 39 Cairo 95 72 Chicago 63 36 Cleveland 58 35 Dallas 88 60 Detroit 62 39 Indianapolis 66 41 Jerusalem 88 68 
57 52 
85 62 
79 52 
73 54 
46 39 
71 44 
58 40 

Paris 54 50 © 1992 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Philadelphia 60 42 

compact disks. The group already has begun asking radio and television stations not to play O'Connor's music, said its chairman, Bill Fugazy. "We think she went to far," Fugazy said. "she may not approve of the church, but she shouldn't desecrate the picture of a world religious leader. We're going to hit her hard in her pocketbook." Fugazy said the money will be sent to the registered charity of the record donor's choice. 
INDIANA 

•SOUTH 
B NO, lnd.-A furniture parts manufacturer is expected to locate a new factory in in South Bend employing 250 people. Accuride International, Inc. of Santa Fe Spings, Calif. said details would be announced today at a news conference at Michiana Regional Airport. If details are as expected, a 165,000-square­foot plant would be built in the Landmark Industrial Park, located just north of the Indiana Toll Road and just west of the U.S. 31 Bypass. Ground is expected to be broken for the plant later this month with completion set for next summer. 

•Right 
to Life of ND-SMC will hold a peaceful demonstration and prayer service at the South Bend abortion clinic all day tomorrow. Rides will leave from the Main Circle at 9, 10, and 11 a.m. and noon, 1, and 2 


p.m. Questions call Claire at 4220. 
•The 
Center for the Homeless is sponsoring a hospitality lunch today from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. All are welcome. 

•The 
Red Cross Water Safety Instructor Course will be administering a written and skills pretest today at 6 p.m. in room 218 of the Rockne Memorial Building. For more information, call Brother Louis Hurcik at (239­7053) or pick up a brochure at the Rockne front desk or the issue room in Rolfs Acquatic Center. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1934: Bruno Hauptmann was indicted for murder in the death of the infant son of Charles Lindbergh. 

•In 
1945: President Truman announced that the secret of the atomic bomb would be shared only with Britain and Canada. 

• 
In 1956: Don Larsen pitched the only perfect game ever in a World Series as the New York Yankees beat the Brooklyn Dodgers, 2-0. 

• 
In 1970: Exiled Soviet author Alexander Solzhenitsyn was awarded the Nobel Prize for literatue. 

• 
In 1982: The Polish parliament approved a law banning the trade union Solidarity . 



The Observer/Nora Duncan Saint Mary's alumna Rachel Tomas spoke yesterday on the lasting effects of racism that occurs in American society in her lecture "Women of Color: Tales from an lnnner-City Classroom." 
PC Club Meeting #2 Topic: Toolbook 
Build your own applications for Windows! 
All are welcome! Software Raffle: FAR SIDE Calendar program 
Thursday October 8th, 1992 8:00P.M. In Computer Math Bldg. Rm. G015 



Ifyou think it's hard living on your salary, try living without it. 
We all like to complain a little about how tough it is to live on the money we're making. But imagine one day finding you can no longer work because of a disability ...and your salary suddenly stops. 
Frightening? At TIAA, we don't want it to be. That's why we offer the best Group Long-Term Disability plans around. These . 
continued contributions 

and expert claims service. "·"""'"'""y--......
"<-A,­
,·-..:=.:

TIAA Long-Term '-·~!.;
·---,......
·'--..-.

.,.,..........~,.........._
Disability Insurance can help ··~ 
make your future more secure... regardless of what surprises the future may hold. 

TIAA Group Insurance. The Smart Relationship. 


Teachers  730 Third Avenue  
Insurance and  New York, NY 10017-3206  
Annuity  
Association  

Ensuring the future for those who shape it. 

SMC alumna says racism still a problem in America 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Racism is inherent in the system and its effects are scar­ring youths throughout Amer­ica, according to Saint Mary's alumna Rachel Tomas. 
Victims of racism are similar to victims of rape in that the healing process lasts a lifetime, Tomas said during her lecture at Saint Mary's yesterday titled, "Women of Color: Tales from an Inner-City Classroom." 
Racism surfaced in the thir­teenth century with the upper­class French and spread to Spain in the fifteenth century, she said. Religious castes be­came racial castes, she contin­ued. 
When Columbus came to America in 1492, "racism had gripped Europe to a large de­gree," Tomas said. 
The explorers found ways to justify stealing from the indige­nous peoples in the new world by claiming racial superiority, according to Tomas. Thus, she said, came the birth of "forced hereditary slavery." 
Black slavery in America can be attributed to de Gama who sailed around the Cape of Good Hope in 1498, she added. 
Tomas described the legal system structured to exclude blacks and the indigenous 
people from rights the Euro­pean whites enjoyed as "demoralizing." 
"Racism is a distinctly Euro­pean concept brought to the new world by Columbus," she said. "There is a continued le­gacy of racism today." 
Tomas recalled an incident that happened to her at home in Illinois over fall break one year. While buying drinks for her friends at a bar, a military officer approached her and said, "In the Philippines I can buy ten of your kind." 
Tomas said she "remembers the incident like a young child who falls off a bicycle for the first time and runs to her mother." 
This and other incidents have led her to conclude that "anger and hatred are normal reactions to experiences in white America." 
There is a problem of mi­norities denying their heritages, especially in pre-college years, Tomas said. She admitted to asking her mother to fix hamburgers and tuna casserole instead of Philippino food when her friends visited. 
Tomas said stereotypes and racism are due to fear and ig­norance and Americans are "challenged to re-educate and empower each other, and carve out our own paths." 
Six killed in military plane crash 
BERKELEY SPRINGS, W.Va. (AP) -Milton Barnhart was sitting at his kitchen table Wednesday morning when an Air National Guard transport plane crashed into his house in a huge fireball, killing all six people on board. 
Barnhart's house was de­stroyed, but he escaped without serious injury, and only his hair singed. 
Witnesses said one wing or engine on the four-engine plane, which was on a routine training flight, appeared to be on fire before the crash. 
The turboprop C-130E was part of the 167th Tactical Airlift Group based at the Eastern West Virginia Regional Airport at Martinsburg, 20 miles east of Berkeley Springs in the state's Eastern Panhandle. The unit's 12 aircraft were used to ferry troops and supplies during the Persian Gulf War. 
Air National Guard Maj. Ed­ward Dockeney Jr. said an Air Force investigation board will convene to determine the cause of the crash. He would not discuss possible causes. 


USDA offers money for homeless children 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Federal money is now available to help public homeless shelters feed their pre-school children, an Agriculture Department official said Wednesday. 
Betty Nelsen, administrator of USDA's Food and Nutrition Service, said the agency is so­liciting grant applications from city-and county-run shelters seeking federal money to feed infants and toddlers. 
The feeding program had been limited to private, non­profit shelters until this sum­mer, when a new law opened the program to publicly run shelters. 
According to the Congres­sional Budget Office, there are nearly 25,000 children under age 6 living in emergency shelters. Other federal pro­grams, such as the school lunch program, feed school-age children. 
Little, however, is done for younger brothers and sisters who remain in the shelters all day, says Sen. Patrick Leahy (D­Vt.) and chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee. 
Nelsep said the agency is in­forming states and announcing the availability of government money in magazines and other publications used by homeless center administrators. 



TI-lE POI~TE 

AT SAINT JOSEPH 
:For (jraduate Students 


and:Facu{ty 
We afso liave furnished e~ecutive suites 
Office 9-fours: 9vfonday-~ritfay 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Saturday 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 
307 LaSaf{e .9lvenue, Soutfi 'Bent£ Indiana 46617 (219) 287-2684 
~-----­
page 4 


A liberal view 

Jack Germond, a reporter for the Baltimore Evening Sun, speaks at a press conference before taking the liberal point of view at The Mclaughlin Group debate held yesterday in Stepan Center. 
----~ ·-~ --~---~ 
Thursday, Octoboer 8, 1992 


El AI flight 'black box' could provide clues 
AMSTERDAM, Netherlands 
(AP) -Investigators found the 
charred and dented flight data 
recorder of an El AI Boeing 747 
Wednesday, saying the "black 
box" could provide clues to why 
the jet slammed into a subur­
ban apartment block. 

The briefcase-sized box was found as hundreds of searchers, sifting carefully through an unstable mountain of rubble and wreckage, pulled more bodies from the apartment building destroyed in Sunday's crash. 
By Wednesday night, 40 corpses had been removed from the smoldering rubble, but 250 people were still unaccounted for, according to City Hall spokesman Robert Kaercher. He said the missing were presumed dead. 
If confirmed, the toll would 
make it the world's deadliest air 
disaster in terms of deaths on 
the ground. 
Authorities said a more pre­
cise casualty toll was impossible 
because an unknown number of 
illegal immigrants lived in the 
low-income apartment block. 
The recovery was also slowed because searchers were finding bits and pieces of bodies in the rubble, charred in the intense heat from the fuel-laden jumbo jet that exploded on impact. 
The Israeli airline said it was setting up an emergency fund to assist survivors of victims of the crash. 
Authorities said they hoped the flight recorder would pro­vide details of the last moments before the Boeing 7 4 7-200 cargo plane crashed into the 10-story building 10 miles east of Schiphol Airport. 



Debate 
continued from page1 
And Clinton's plan to get the government involved in health care would only harm the sys­tem, he continued. "America has the best health care system in the world. We do not have a health care crisis in this coun­try, although there is a health insurance crisis." 
The answer to the education crisis is "competition," and not throwing further money at the problem, Barnes said. 
talking about." 

One example of Bush's lack of touch with Americans, accord­ing to Germond, was his at­tempt to relate to victims of the Los Angeles riots by comparing the city's damage to that caused by a storm at his vacation home in Maine. 
Bush has shifted from one catchword to another -and back -throughout his cam­paign, Germond said. The "change" issue was a difficult one because, in effect, Bush was campaigning against his own record, he said. 
The "trust" issue was re­placed by "family values," he said, which has mainly been an 
One advantage to today's Democratic Party is that it has "outgrown most of the litmus tests," Germond said, such as mandatory opposition to capital punishment, formerly necessary for candidacy. 
Questioned by Scully about the alleged censoring of Penn­sylvania anti-abortion Governor William Casey at the Demo­cratic national convention, and the question of whether the party has room for pro-life ad­vocates, Germond said, "I don't think anybody should expect their party to agree with them on all issues." 

appeal to the religious right.
Germond attacked Bush on 

1&1 

ALUMNI
The "dangerous liberal" mes­the economic issue, saying the 
SENIOR

sage has failed to resonate evenPresident "has a tin ear," and in the South, he added. 
"no idea what the people are 

ate Students for travel ex­



~!:CLUB 
penses.
GSU 

Also approved was a $500 
Pre--Pittsburgh Social Gathering
continued from page 1 

budget allotment to the inde­pendent campus publication Common Sense and the pay­
9--2
serve to consider options de­

ment of $150 to the band 
signed to change the procedure "From West of Here" for its or­

Thursday at the Club 
that the Travel Committee 

ganization of the Oct. 30 GSU 
presently follows dealing with social. 

the reimbursement of Gradu-.--------------------11 E'RE PUTTING DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS. l'urtnashl{l ,;,, lfiiii!:·Fn!',\IH!'I1CtlReduce  The Place To Be For The Class Of '93 must be 21  
Reuse  



Do You Have Swimmer's Hair? 
Recycle 

Has Your Hair Lost its Shine Due To Hairspray Build--Up? 
Stop in for a 



Malibu 2000 Treatment 
And wash all the Build,up AwaySister Act PG 
5:t5, 7:30, 10:00 
Hero PG13 
4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
The Last of the Mohicans R 

Only $7°0 
4:40, 7:15, 9:45 

'University :liair Stylists LaFortune Student Center 
239--5144 
Mon--Fri 9 a.n1... 9 p.m. 
•Opens at 3 p.m. 

Sat 9 a.m ... 4 p.m. We Will Be Open During Fall Break 

Bush promotes free trade pact 
SAN ANTONIO (AP) -Presi­
holding campaign events built dent Bush participated in a around it, we would have a far high-profile ceremony in a better NAFTA." must-win state Wednesday to If approved by lawmakers in highlight the successful negoti­all three countries, the trade ation of an agreement creating agreement is scheduled to go the world's largest free trade into effect on Jan. 1, 1994, be­zone. ginning a process of removing 
With Canadian Prime Minister all tariffs and other barriers to Brian Mulroney and Mexican trade, services and investment President Carlos Salinas de between the three countries Gortari looking on, Bush hailed over a 15-year period. the 2,000-page North American The pact is designed to create Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) the world's largest and richest that was negotiated last August. free trade zone, covering 360
President Bush 

"This meeting marks a turn­million people. 
Salinas told the crowd that

ing point in the history of our American labor unions and
"we can all win with this

three countries," Bush told a many environmentalists
agreement" while Mulroney

crowd of dignitaries in the strongly oppose the pact,
called free trade "the pathway

courtyard of a local hotel. "We charging that it will cost up to a
to prosperity." 

are creating the largest, richest half-million American jobs as
As leaders of the three nations

and most productive market in more companies move their
looked on, their trade ministers

the entire world." operations to Mexico to take
initialed the completed text in

Bush defended the pact advantage of low wages and lax
what was largely a symbolic

against criticism that it will re­enforcement of environmental
ceremony. Under U.S. law, Bush

sult in the loss of U.S. jobs from laws.
cannot actually sign the

companies being lured across The administration disputes
agreement before Dec. 17. 

the border to lower wages in that view, arguing that the
Critics of the trade pact noted

Mexico. Instead, Bush said the agreement will end up creating
that a similar "initialing" cer­

removal of trade barriers would more jobs than it loses as U.S. 
emony was not held when the

expand U.S. exports to Mexico, companies are able to boost
United States negotiated a free

which is already America's their exports to Mexico, already 
trade agreement with Canada

third largest market. America's third largest foreign
in 1988. 

"If anyone doubts the impor­market.
Calling the event "pure polit­

tance of trade for creating jobs, While the free trade agree­
ical theater," Sen. Max Baucus

they should come to this great ment is not politically popular
(D-Mont.), a key congressional 

state," Bush told the crowd, in auto states such as Michigan,
critic of the accord, said, "If the 

saying that exports from Texas the administration sees the deal 
Bush administration spent as

alone totaled $47 billion last as a political plus in border
much time and energy nego­

year with $15 billion of that states such as Texas and Cali­
tiating the NAFTA as it spends

amount going to Mexico. 
South Bend, IN 4663 7 ~~ o.~~ 
Mention This Ad and Receive 10% off ~ Not good for Valentine's Day 

fornia. 
-~-­

---------------------. 
page 5 


Unions see trade pact as threat to job security 
NEW YORK (AP) -Presi­services. dent Bush's latest promotion The Institute for Interna­of the North American Free tional Economics, a nonparti· Trade ~Agreement comes san Washington-based re­against a backdrop of grow­search group, has estimated ing union anger over lost the pact will create 600,000 jobs, an issue that goes to the jobs in Mexico and 130,000 heart of what the pact means jobs in the United States. for U.S. workers. Opponents of the pact say 
A rash of recent high­hundreds of thousands of profile strikes in this country American jobs will be lost, have been at least partly due beyond the estimated to the outrage that unionized 400,000 that already have employees feel over what gone to Mexico in recent they see as threats to their years. job security. Those threats include a migration of work "It doesn't take a brain sur­to Mexico, where labor costs geon or an economist to are about one-twentieth of figure out what this agree­costs here. ment is about and what its 
potential impact is," said 

Most union leaders say the Mark Anderson, an proposed free*frade pact, economist with the AFL-CIO which will eliminate cross* in Washington. border economic barriers over 15 years, is simply a "It's an investment agree­green light for many big ment. not a trade agree· American corporations to ment," he said. "For men and accelerate or greatly expand women in manufacturing,
this migration.. .:::f:k 
this isn't trading Ben & 

Bush and other supporters Jerry's ice cream for Corona of the pact contend it will Beer. It's an agreement eventually result in a net gain creating better investment of U.S. jobs, as Mexico security for companies like becomes more of a consumer General Motors, and they economy and buys more (the workers) are scared to American products and death." 
7 Day Delivery  
Roses  Flowers  
Balloons  Plants  
Gift & Fruit Baskets  
Clocktower Square  (219)2 7 7 , 1291O'<-o,.e'<-~  
51400 31 North  ~-t  

Walsh wants Poindexter ruling reinstated 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The day to reverse an appeals court By a 2-1 vote last November, Supreme Court is being asked ruling that overturned Poindex­the U.S. Circuit Court of Ap­to examine key legal issues in ter's conviction. peals said Poindexter's convic­the Iran-Contra affair and rein­The affair involved secret U.S. tion on two counts of obstruc­state the conviction of former arms sales to Iran during the tion of Congress must be re­National Security Adviser John Reagan administration and versed because the law is too Poindexter. diversion of some profits to vague to prohibit lying to 
Independent counsel anti-communist Nicaraguan Congress. Lawrence Walsh formally ap­rebels when U.S. aid to them pealed to the justices on Tues-was prohibited. '"Corruptly influencing' a 
congressional inquiry does not clearly encompass lying to Congress," the two judges wrote. 
The appeals court judges who overturned the conviction were Douglas Ginsburg and David Sentelle, both appointed by President Ronald Reagan. Dissenting was Judge Abner Mikva, appointed by Jimmy Carter. 
Thursday, October 8, 8:10pm Saturday, October I0, 8: I 0 pm 

Reserved Seats • $7 



Jobs 
continued from page 1 
Most of the jobs created by Clinton's plan will be in small businesses, according to Blassingame. "Small businesses create most of the new jobs in this country and they need to flourish if we are all to prosper," he said. 
However, right now there are no indications that the job mar­ket for graduating seniors will improve in the immediate fu­ture, according to Kitty Arnold, director of Career and Place­ment Services at Notre Dame. 
"This is not a commentary on either candidate's program, but right now the economy does not show any foreseeable signs of improvement," Arnold said. 
Three years ago, companies conducted 11,000 job inter­views at Notre Dame, but only 7,800 last year, she said. "This is not a positive year, but it is not substantially worse than last year," she said. 
According to Jeff Roberts, assistant director of Counseling and Career Development at Saint Mary's College, the two main problems for job candi­dates are companies that are reducing their staffs and merg-
Panel 
continued from page 1 
really hurt themselves with an ordinary, bland statement," Vanden Bossche added. 
The four speakers advised students not to look only at the university to which they apply, but at the particular depart­ment in which they choose to study. 
"A prestigious college does not have all quality depart­ments," Christiano said. "Conversely, a small unknown college may be renown for one of its departments." 


Press 
continued from page 1 
For example, Perot is allowed to appear on Larry King Live at will, he said, while the other candidates must call press conferences to communicate with the press. 
The press conference and debate were sponsored by the Student Union Board Ideas and Issues Committee. 
6~ l> .s..~(/) r::-.$>0 ~ '"'" ~0 ~'b· 
~,b~ ~ looking "<, 0v~ for 

'? Campus Bands 
Call 233-7747 After 3 p.m. 

GREEI<S & CLUBS 

RAISE ACOOL 
'1000 
IN JUST ONE WEEKI 
PLUS $1000 FOR THE MEMBER WHO CALLS! No obligation. No cost You also get aFREE HEADPHONE RADIO just for calling 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 





CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 
Information Systems Management 

We're looking for a few highly motivated people with a strong background in computer related disciplines who want a career in Information Systems Management. 
If you're the kind of person who's interested in rotational assignments, exposure to senior management, structured classroom development, and you like the idea of having input into the direction of your career, the ACCENT Program may be the right opportunity for you. 
We'll be on campus for: 
Information Session: 
Monday, November 9, 1992 CCE -Room 206 7:00p.m. 

Interviews: 
Thesday, November 10, 1992 Wednesday, November 11, 1992 
Contact your Placement Office for more information. 


TheTravelerst' 
You're better off under the Umbrella.® 
©1991 The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183 An Equal Opportunity Employer 
ers. 

"The big fish are eating the little fish up, and a number of positions are being squeezed out," he said. 
Many opportunities can be found by looking at smaller companies, Roberts said. 'The opportunities lie with anybody trying to bump off whoever's at top. You have to look at the sec­ond tier," he said. 
That phenomenon is espe­cially true in fields like aerospace, according to John Prette, president of the Notre Dame chapter of American Institute of Aeronautics and As­tronautics (AIAA). 
"Companies like Boeing aren't hiring, but there are some smaller companies that are strong right now, which is where people should be spreading their horizons and looking for jobs," Prette said. 
Aeronautics is still a field that is suffering from recent defense cuts, Prette said. "This is a field based on defense." 
The reverse seems to be true in the finance field, according to Amy Listerman, president of the Notre Dame Finance Club. "Big firms are recruiting, but the smaller firms might not be recruiting this year," she said. 

Listerman is not optimistic about the future job market. "It might be a slower recovery (than in past years) no matter who wins the election," she said. 
Julie Jedlinski, president of the Saint Mary's Management Club, is more optimistic about the job market. "Personally, I think we'll come out of the re­cession soon," she said. 
However, the candidates don't have the right plans to help the job market out, according to Listerman. "They have their ideas, but I don't see" how they will lead the U.S. out of a recession, she said. 
Roberts, on the other hand, thinks that a president can have a direct impact on the job market. 
He said, "The President can create a sense of optimism among the people, like when John F. Kennedy did when I was young." 
The Observer/Nora Duncan 
One more lap 

Debbie Young and Caroline Molnar (left to right) finish another lap in the Oktoberfest run/walk held yesterday at Saint Mary's. 
Thursday, October 8, 1992 

The Observerl1\lora Duncan 

One with nature 
Susanne Treloar, a Saint Mary's junior, takes advantage of the nice weather by catching up on her reading outside. 
The Observer 



Allies reach agreement on Bosnian 'no-fly zone' 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Bush administration will con­tinue to seek the establishment of a "no fly" zone over Bosnia despite promises from Bosnian Serbs of an immediate halt to military flights over the country, a spokesman said Wednesday. 
Department spokesman Richard Boucher said the pledges lack credibility because the Serbs have persisted in carrying out aerial attacks over Bosnia in violation of promises made six weeks ago. 
"They have not kept that commitment," Boucher said. 
President Bush called last Friday for a ban on Serb mili­tary flights over Bosnia and said he would be willing to uti­lize U.S. military assets to en­force any such ban. 
At the United Nations Wednesday, diplomats said the United States, France and Bri­tain reached agreement on a draft resolution to ban war­planes from flying over Bosnia. 
The United States had been advocating a strong enforce­ment provision in the resolution but bowed to French and British demands for a more cautious approach, the diplo­mats said. Under the proposed resolution, the sources said, U.N. personnel would be as­signed to monitor airfields and the possibility of an additional resolution to enforce the ban was left open. 
In a television interview Tuesday night, Acting Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger expressed understanding for the British and French positions. But, he said, the sit­uation "in and around Sarajevo and Bosnia is so disastrous now that we need to move hard and fast to prevent it from becoming worse." 
Establishment of a no-fly zone along with a U.N.-sponsored commission to investigate alleged atrocities in the former Yugoslavia have emerged as key elements of the Bush administration's efforts to end the fighting there. 
The U.N. Security Council approved the establishment of the war crimes commission Tuesday with the strong back­ing of the United States. 
Boucher said the United States already has provided U.N. officials with data on 50 "reliably attested incidents" in response to a prior Security Council resolution. 
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES 
Invite The UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME students to attend a presentation "on career opportunities 
Thursday, October 8, 1992 8:00p.m. Main Lounge of the University Club 
Featuring Tom Helfrich, ND '72 Senior Vice President, Corporate Human Resources 
Recent Notre Dame Alumni and Interns will also be available to talk about their experiences at The Travelers. 
All majors encouraged to attend. 
Refreshments will be served. 
FALL INTERVIEW DATES: ACCENT 
(Information Systems Management) TTMP 
(Telecommunications) FMDP 
(Financial Management) MCEBO ASSOCIATES 
(Managed Care and Employee Benefits) 

November 10-11, 1992 November 10, 1992 November 10, 1992 November 10, 1992 






TheTravelersj 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
page 7 
Serbians win strategic city in Bosnia 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -With a final push fought hand-to-hand on the streets, Se-rbs captured the northern border city of Bosan­ski Brod and with the victory widened their land corridor from eastern to western Bosnia. 
The Serbs followed up Tues­day's victory early today by de­stroying the bridge that was the last Croatian-Muslim-controlled link over the Sava River to Croatia. 
Meanwhile, heavy shelling was reported in the capital this morning, and some shells landed near the presidency building. Sarajevo radio termed it "one of the most hellish mornings since the beginning of the war" six months ago. 
Serb forces were poised to capture Orasje, the last Bosnian government stronghold on the southern bank of the Sava river. Its position was rendered almost indefensible by the sudden Serb capture of Bosanski Brod, 95 miles north of Sarajevo. 
Serbs, who now hold about 70 percent of the republic, seemed intent on eliminating the entire Bosnian enclave along the Sava River boundary with neighboring Croatia. It used to stretch for nearly 30 miles along the river and some 25 miles south. 
In the past, that enclave threatened the supply routes running from Serbia proper to areas held by Serb rebels in western Bosnia and central Croatia. 

Georgia gets closer to war 
TBILISI, Georgia (AP) -The Georgian intelligence chief ac­cused Russia on Wednesday of giving battle tanks to Abk­hazian separatists in Georgia's Black Sea coastal region, but the Russians denied it. 
In an effort to stop their slide toward war, Russian President Boris Yeltsin and Georgian leader Eduard Shevardnadze talked by telephone Wednes­day, news agencies reported. Details were not released, but ITAR-Tass called the talk "sharp and principled." 
The two leaders discussed holding a "top-level meeting on resolving the conflict," and touched on Yeltsin's an­nouncement Tuesday that Russian troops were taking control of the railway and a narrow strip of Abkhazian coastline, Interfax reported. 
The conflict, in which hun­dreds have died over the past few months, threatened to worsen as opposing forces con­centrated around the Abk­hazian capital of Sukhumi, a coastal resort town of 150,000. It was captured by Georgian 

I 
troops in August and is the 

I 
northernmost Georgian I stronghold in Abkhazia. I 

ELECTION '92 
ELECTION BRIEFS 
Perot target of Vietnam 
•WASHINGTON-Ross Perot told a Senate panel that the FBI warned him of an assassination plot against him by North Vietnam in 1970 involving Black Panther hitmen because of his efforts on behalf of POWs, according to testi­mony released Wednesday. Perot also said that in 1986, then-Vice President Bush asked him to pay $4.2 million for a videotape purporting to show live POWs and promised that the federal government would reimburse him. 
Poll: Perot behind in Texas 
•HOUSTON-Ross Perot's presi­dential campaign got off to a weak start in his home state, with a poll showing 14 percent of likely voters supporting the Dallas businessman, compared with 40 percent for President Bush and 35 percent for Bill Clinton. 
Student poll: Bush leading 
•MIDDLETOWN, Conn. -Forget the polls showing Bill Clinton ahead in the race for the White House. A student newspaper that has picked the winner in every election since 1956 weighed in Wednesday with good news for President Bush. Bush was the choice of 55 percent of the more than 600,000 students surveyed in the Weekly Reader, drawing especially heavy support among those in kindergarten through fourth grade, said Editor-in-Chief Sandra Maccarone. 


Bush campaign predicts farm vote deciding factor 
WASHINGTON -Suddenly, the farm vote is looking like a crucial factor in this year's presidential campaign. 
Farmers haven't always had so much clout in this campaign; only recently were farm issues discussed in more than passing by President Bush or Democrat Bill Clinton. 
But both campaigns now agree that growers could help decide the race in some of the key toss-up states. Some say farmers could even tip the election. 
"Both campaigns are just waking up to the farm vote and ·farmers' needs," says Mike Dunn of the National Farmers Union. "They're looking for every vote they can, and the rural vote suddenly looms very important. Here you've got a block of folks that could have a real impact in these states." 
Clayton Yeutter, Bush's deputy cam­paign manager, agreed. 
"The farm vote may decide this elec­tion," Yeutter predicted Tuesday in an­nouncing a coalition of more than 300 farmers, agribusiness owners and rural leaders who support the president. 
Yeutter said several farm states ringing the Great Lakes are especially critical to Bush's chances of holding on to the White House. And the farm vote in Texas, one of the biggest electoral prizes, will be a factor. 
Democrats also see the farm and rural vote being potentially decisive in some of the important swing states, said Miles Goggans, director of Farmers & Ranchers '92, an independent committee of farm leaders that supports Clinton. 
Quayle visits farm on tour 

FRESNO Calif. (AP) -Vice President Dan Quayle told California farmers Wednesday that if Bill Clinton and AI Gore are elected, "you can say goodbye to water, goodbye to food, goodbye to your job." 
Quayle, winding up a three-day Cali­fornia swing, said President Bush would veto any legislation that would strip too much water from California farms. 
He said Bush opposes legislation pending in the Senate that would re­quire shifting more water from Cali­fornia agriculture to protecting habitat for fish and wildlife. 
The Republicans are trailing far be­hind Clinton and Gore in California, the biggest electoral prize with 54 of the 270 votes needed for victory. 





Democrats encourage blacks to vote in election 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Democrats, betting that Bill Clinton will benefit from a higher black turnout, announced a bus tour Wednesday to encourage blacks to vote. 
Black Americans make up an estimated 11 percent of the national electorate, but only 51 percent voted in 1988 compared to 59 percent of whites. 
The voter turnout effort, which begins Monday, follows a campaign led by Jesse Jackson to add more blacks to the regis­tration books. Black Southern lawmakers also have urged the Arkansas governor to more aggressively court black voters. 
Democratic Party chairman Ronald Brown said at a news conference that Clinton would appear at two stops on the five-day tour, an opening day rally in Charlotte, N.C., an,d a closing rally in New Orleans. Tour stops are also scheduled in Georgia, Alabama and Mississippi. 
Clinton and running mate AI Gore have focused much of their attention on "Reagan Democrats"-the relatively conservative, white, working-class voters who abandoned the Democrats in the last three presidential campaigns. As a result, Clinton has been accused of ignoring blacks, among the Democratic party's most loyal constituencies. 
"I know that criticism has been made," Brown said. "It happens not to be true." 
He said the party must "get back some of those Democrats who have deserted the party. I think it's a pragmatic common-sense strategy which helps us to get to where we want to get." 
STORM OVER 


THE UNIVERSITY 

1842·1992 
S E SQU ICE NTE N N I A l 

RETHINKING ACADEMIC MISSION • RECLAIMING PUBLIC TRUST 

October 12-13, 1992 • Centerfor ContinuingEducation • University ofNotre Dame 
Storm Over the University is the major academic symposium of
Areyou concernedabout: 

Notre Dame's Sesquicentennial Year. It is designed to examine the range of issues that underlie the erosion of confidence in higher education by society
•Teaching vs. Research •The spiraling cost ofhigher education 
at large. The conference features a stellar lineup of speakers discussing topics
•International competitiveness •Political correctness of vital interest to all students. 

Monday, October 12, 1992 
9 a.m. -Session I-The Univmity ll1lli Contemporary Society 

• 
The Rok anJ the Authority ofthe Univmily in Contemporary Society Robert Wutbnow, Gerhard R. Andlinger Professor of Social Sciences, Princeton University 

• 
The Sellrr:h for Omrmunity in a Multicuitural Age Johnnetta B. Cole, President, Spelman College 



11 a.m.-Session H-The University'sAcmlemic Mission: The LiberalArts 
• 
Teaching and &starch: The Matttr ofPmpective Francis Oakley, President and Professor of History, Williams College 


• 
The Debate Over the Curriculum: Untkrlying Issues John Searle, Mills Professor of Philosophy of Mind and Language, University of California at Berkeley 


12:30 p.m. -Luncheon -Open to all symposi~~m attnulees. Mvtm« rtgistrllJWn foe requmJ. 
2 p.m. -Session m-The University's Auulemic Mission: .Science ll1lli Engineering 
• The Future ofAcaJnnic Science Walter Massey, Director, National Science Foundation 

• The Amtrican Univmity anJ Technological Competitiveness in a Global Ecfi1Wmy 
Chang-Lin lien, Chancellor, University of California at Berkeley 

4 p.m. -Session w-Graduate Education 
• Challmges to GraduAte Etlucation in the 1990s 
Theodore Ziollwwski, Class of 1900 Professor of German and Compantivt Literature, Princeton University 
• Univmities and the EJtJcation ofAmrrican Business Managemmt 
Donald P. Jacobs, Gaylord Freeman Distinguished Professor of Banking and Dean of the J. L Kellogg Graduate School of Management, Northwestern University 
Tuesday,October13, 1992 
9 a.m. -Session V-ProftssioMI Educ4tion 
• Medical Schools and the Crisis in Health Care 
C. Everett Koop, Mcinerny Professor of Surgery, C. Everett Koop Institute, Dartmouth College 
• Law Schools and the Character ofthe Amrrican Legal System John T. Noonan, Jr., United States Cirruit Judge 
11 a.m. -Session VI-The University tU a Center ofValues 
• The Moral Functions ofHigher EJucation in Motlern Society Elizabeth Topham Kennan, President, Mount Holyoke College 
• The Catholic University in SeculAr Acatlnne: Challmge and Dilemma James Turner, Professor of History, University of Michigan 
AD ~sium sessions are open to the public. 
Viewpoint 
Thursday, October 8, 1992 page9 
The Observer 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219} 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Guard alumnus remembers 'traditions' differently than recent Guardsmen 
Dear Editor: 
One thing that time teaches is that there are at least two ver­sions of Notre Dame--what a student experiences during his/her short time as a student and the longer continuum of events and traditions which happen over the decades. The two can become confused when a current student believes, for reasons no stronger than hearsay, that something "has always been that way" and is, therefore, a tradition. 
In his letter (the Observer, Sept. 29, 1992), Mike Maier, formerly a member of the Irish Guard, tells of his pride when a Guard Alumnus of 1962 is "elated to see that the traditions have continued." I believe Maier, and many other Guardsmen of recent years, have been misled by an attitude (which seems to have developed and grown since the mid­seventies) that the Irish Guard has some sort of elevated status independent of the Marching Band. 
Maier never once mentioned the band in his letter, although he made several references to the fraternity of the Irish Guard. Forgotten somewhere is that the Band could get along fine without the Irish Guard, but the Guard is nothing with­out the Oldest Marching Band in America. 
Thirty years ago, the Band Director and the Captain of the Irish Guard selected new members jointly after the try­outs. There was no initiation of "rooks," no "traditional drink" either before or after perfor­mances, and nothing especially secretive about the business of the Guard. 

Father Tyson had no fears of our becoming "a subculture," and there was no need for an­nual meetings to warn the Guard about unacceptable be­havior. Perhaps we could return to these traditions. 
Many older Guardsmen had hoped that the 1987 incident would eliminate the artificial autonomy of the Irish Guard. Professor O'Hara has done us all a service if she can make this message stick: The Irish Guard and the Marching Band serve to bring honor to the University; only someone who is unacceptably self-centered would see it the other way around. 
MichaelS. Squyres Irish Guard--1962, 1963 Sept. 29, 1992 

'Destroying life' is more rude than interrupting 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to those letters that criticized the pro-lifers who heckled Bill Clin­ton. I was one of those protesters, and I do not apolo­gize to anyone for my actions. 
Some people believe it was rude to heckle Bill Clinton. I agree. To interrupt somebody while he is giving a speech is very rude, but I feel it is also rude to interrupt somebody's life by destroying it. Tem­porarily interrupting some­body's speech means nothing to me when compared to per­manently ending someone's life. 
What if a politician was advo-
DOONESBURY 
eating the legalization of rape or slavery? I am sure he would be more than heckled during his speeches. You see, I feel abortion is even worse of an evil than rape or slavery, so for me, heckling Bill Clinton was no big deal. 
I do not want people to con­fuse politicians with mothers. How I approach a mother con­templating an abortion would be totally different from my ap­proach to a politician. In a lov­ing and caring manner, I would try to show the mother that life is beautiful and precious and that having a baby is a miraculous and glorious occa­sion. 

Having the opportunity to bring a life into this world is a unique and awesome experi­ence, and although she might be confused and frightened, she needs to make her decision based on love, not on fear. I would not heckle her, and I would not judge her. 
But, yes, I will heckle Bill Clinton and any other high au­thority who tells me that the killing of a people, the unborn, is a rational and legal thing to 
do. 
Robert E. Payne Alumni Hall Oct. 4, 1992 

T h u r s d a y 's V e r s e 
Spirits' whispers for the lovers 
Did he tell her the words The words from the woods The misty woods Where the spirits roam at night Did he make the sounds And touch her And tellli~r til: wor 
s The words from the spirits :i&> The spirits from the misty woods Did she whisper back to hini 
And breathe ..,::,:::,:,,:. '':"''''':::::.: Breathe life into the thoughtS' The thoughts from the water The warm water next to the cold misty woods The misty woods where the spirits roam Walking through th¢ night Did they feel the power The power ofgods With the words and the touch And the leaves in her hair And the dew upon his back Did the spirits look out upon them From the woods and from the water And did they whisper And did they whisper And did they whisper and then fade back Fade into the night 
By Donald J. Modica 

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
Send your unpublished poem to: 
Thursday's Verse 
P.O. Box Q. ND, IN, 46556 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 



Viewpoint
page 10 Thursday, October 8, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Johnson still has 'much to offer' Arrest reports benefit students as a player and a spokesman 
Dear Editor: Magic Johnson acquires pressed resentment towards HIV-Major news source The Observer because the arti­Dear Editor: any semblance of a normal ex­·.I would like to respond to the reports story-Effect: People cles "further humiliated our istence? letter submitted by Patrick Finn realize, "Hey, if Magic can get friends ... and others." I hate 
I am writing in response to It seems as if Capozzola has and Dan Wietecha who ex­HIV then maybe I can too to have to be the first one to sayMr. Capozzola's letter to the tired of Magic Johnson and pressed bitterness towards The unless I'm careful." Event: it, but you just experienced a editor which condemned Earvin openly yearns for Johnson to Observer and Julie Barrett for S.U.D.S. raids The Commons dose of "real life" (No, I don't "Magic" Johnson for ending his not simply retire from the NBA reporting the S.U.D.S. raids at and Turtle Creek-The mean "like the show on MTV").retirement and returning to the but from life as well. What The Commons and Turtle Creek Observer reports that Joe or In real life, papers print the NBA (The Observer, Oct. 1, Capozzola does not seem to and for printing the names of Jane Domer gets cited-Effect: names of people convicted of 1992). To begin, Magic Johnson realize is that Magic Johnson students cited. Other Domers realize, "Hey, if drunk driving and other alcohol 
does not (unless we have been serves as a constant reminder Finn and Wietecha implied so and so got cited then maybe I related arrests for the sole 
misinformed) have AIDS, as the of not only the AIDS virus but that The Observer should have can too unless I'm careful." purpose of deterring others 
moralizing Capozzola suggests, also one man's attempt at ignored these recent events like The point in printing the from doing the same. 
but rather is HIV­surviving and achieving. "every other news source in the names of students is to rein-Those that were "humiliated" 
positive-which is indeed an The HIV virus and AIDS are greater South Bend area." force the message that, in light by the appearance of their 
important distinction. indeed very serious issues, not Excuse me, but don't you think of recent events, you are taking names in The Observer are 
Capozzola remarks that only for those infected, but for most students would consider a chance if you go off-campus serving as deterrents for other 
Magic's retirement a year ago all those affected by their very these stories relevant? Don't to drink, and the consequences underage students who are 
and his commitment to the existence. Capozzola is you think students might ap­of taking that chance are considering drinking off-
AIDS commission was commendable in the concern he preciate being informed of the potentially serious. campus.
"courageous and correct" seems to express for the wel­recent cracking down on un­I for one am not in any finan­
because such actions helped fare of the naive children, but derage drinking in the greater cial position to treat a stiff fine As far as dealing with the hu­
people understand that "life these naive children must learn South Bend area so that they casually, and because I am now miliation of having one's name 
doesn't end after the contrac­to deal with AIDS. don't have to find out the hard aware of what is going on in the printed in The Observer, I ask: 
tion of the HIV disease." I do not believe that the crux way? greater South Bend area, I'm what do we do in real life situa­
Capozzola recounts the of Magic Johnson's message In reference to The Observer's going to exercise greater tions like these? We deal with 
highlights of Magic's Olympiad, was to frighten children. In­policy to print the names of the caution if I decide to to to an them, learn from them, and 
describing the event as "one stead, Johnson attempted to students cited, Finn and Wi­off-campus party. I wonder move on. In short, we grow up 
last athletic feat before AIDS serve as a role model and to etecha sarcastically praise The how many students considered a little. Don't pass up such a 
ultimately takes his life." spread a message of hope while Observer's commitment to going with their friends to these golden opportunity. 
However, person who is HIV­also conveying the truths about journalistic excellence. places and thanked God the 
positive does not necessarily die AIDS and the HIV virus. OK, let's draw a parallel be­next morning that they were Kevin L. McGuire 
of AIDS, nor in all cases do HIV­By refusing to allow Johnson tween The Observer and every not there. Keenan Hall 
positive persons acquire AIDS. to return to the NBA, are we other source of news. Event: Finally, Finn and Wietecha ex-Oct. 6, 1992 
It seems to me that, unlike protecting children from the 
Johnson, Capozzola has already idea that is is "okay to get 
sealed Magic's coffin and is AIDS," as Capozzola suggests, 
anxiously awaiting the "fallen or expressing our fears about 
champion's" decomposition. persons infected by the virus? 
The charitable Capozzola Magic Johnson has a lot left 
states that Magic's Olympic re­to offer, not only as a basketball 
turn conveyed the message that player, but also as an 
"one can still enjoy life after inspiration for all those who 
AIDS ... a true hero, bringing struggle not only with AIDS but 
life to many who were suffering any other illness. 

as a result of AIDS." It is too easy to view Johnson 
But just as we least expect it, as a spokesman who has 
Capozzola endures a Dr. Jekyll outlived his usefulness. Perhaps 
and Mr. Hyde transformation it is time for us to appreciate 
and admonishes Johnson for Johnson as an inspirational, 
not realizing "that enough is struggling and enduring human 
enough. (Magic's) return to the and stop viewing him as the no­
NBA is going one step too far look-HIV-infected-bounce pass­Dear Editor: but this mother seemed justice that oppresses livinginto his message that life does hang-aromid-too-long-for-his­uninterested in the safety of her children. This group is one ofnot end. What he is saying is own good-near-death-role­
This letter is intended for own children, preferring mothers more interested in
that life goes on as usual when model-destroying-former-bas­those members of the South instead to clamor against the screaming polemic at passing
you get AIDS." ketball-star that some of us 
Bend and Notre Dame/Saint "slaughter of the unborn." cars than in keeping their ownWas it not Capozzola who had would like him to be. 
Mary's communities who took Perhaps these self-appointed children safely out of the way of so recently admired Magic for part in the Right-to-Life protest "protectors of the children" traffic.
his courageous and correct Paul Wasinger along Route 31 on Sunday, Oct. would be well advised to pay It may seem to some that I amattempt at combating the HIV Dillon Hall 4. closer attention to those whom overreacting to this incident,virus and his effort to retain Oct. 4, 1992 
Specifically, I would like to re­they themselves have brought but I feel that I am not. When I count an incident which oc­into the world. see a mother neglecting the curred during that protest In general, though, this inci­safety of her own children in which, in my eyes, discredited dent made quite clear in my order to wave slogans at me, I your entire organization. As I mind the hypocrisy of this en­have to wonder about the trueview of the news and issues drove from the downtown area tire organization. This group intentions of this organization. towards Notre Dame during seems not so much interested in Is an unborn fetus more 
Media present self-interested 
Dear Editor: all an innovator. What motives your protest, I noticed a num­the protection of human life as important to this woman thancould Perot possess? He cannot ber of children who had been indicating their own morality to her own children?
This is concerning your edi­live on $3 billion? Maybe he brought along by their parents. those who have not beentorial "Perot entering race to wants to buy a country. Come One group of children and "enlightened." In my mind, Right to Life hassalvage broken ego" (The Ob­on people, wake up! 
their mother especially caught Practicality is not an issue for forever discredited itself be­server, Oct. 2, 1992) in which Many say that Perot is avoid­my eye, just south of the bridge, your organization. You choose cause of its basic neglect ofyou cavalierly dismiss Perot's ing the issues. Society needs to on the east side of Route 31. to neglect the fact that children these children's safety. If you 
re-entry into the race as ego realize that the issues pre­
The mother of these children in the South Bend community can't even keep your own chil­motivated. This is the response sented are not the real issues. 
seemed to be so caught up in live in poverty. You do not dren safely out of traffic, whoof a media-repressed drone. For example, there will always waving her "Abortion Kills protest child abuse, something are you to dictate that all chil­Granted, this is not your fault be two sides to the abortion Children" sign at my car that which affects the healthy devel­dren are to be brought into theas all Americans are sucklings issue, and no one will ever find she failed to pay attention to opment of living children. world, regardless of whetherof mother television. Society is an answer. Can you say facade? 
her own children, who were Your organization finds it they will be protected or not?
programmed by the media to Politicians realize the emotion playing in the street. more important to insure thatbelieve what it wants us to that arises from the abortion I suppose a sign reading children are born into a world David J. Holsingerbelieve. issue and use it to shield other "Traffic Accidents Kill Children" of poverty, injustice and abuse Stanford Hall
In this case, Perot poses a issues such as economically 
would be too obvious for most, than to fight the poverty and in-Oct. 5, 1992threat. His threat is change. motivated warfare, population Change is bad for the media. regulation, racism, and gangs. The media do not like that The bottom line is that politi­which is bad. The media do not cians are controlled by the peo­like Perot! The media programs ple who finance their cam­ideas into the society (e.g. paigns. Perot finances his own "Perot entering race to salvage campaign; thus, he can broken ego"). This discredits concentrate on implementing Perot. Perot does not win the new ideas. Perot is concerned election. The media is happy! with America in the long run, 
(I am sorry if the simplicity not just the time he would serve insults anyone's integrity but in office. why complicate something Quit being stupid, Americans: which is simple?) think critically, question every­
It is a terrible time in America thing-the media are not good. when we question the motives of someone who is trying to do Shawn Lane Beals something decent. Perot is a Off-campus genius, an inspirator, and above Oct. 3, 1992 


~-~-­
-

Accent 
Thursday, October 8, 1992 page 11 
Remembering the past 
Murals in the Main Building depict scenes from Columbus., life 
By SARAH DORAN Sacred Heart Basilica when Indians of the late 19th Accent Writer Sorin asked him to create the Century," said Bradley, adding series of murals of Christopher that "Gregori was wrapped up 
Although it is fairly well Columbus, a historical figure in the notion of what it was to known that the SOOth whom Sorin had great be an American Indian in the anniversary of Christopher admiration for. late 19th Century but did not Columbus' first voyage to the According to Bradley, Sorin condone the attitude typical to New World is Monday, few saw many parallels between his the time that was most often know that the trials and own pioneering of higher degrading · to American triumphs of his life and times education in relatively Indians." are depicted on massive murals uninhabited Northern Indiana, The murals deal with almost adorning the hallways of Notre and Columbus' pioneering of every aspect of the voyage Dame's Main Building. voyages to the New World. including a blessing before the 
For more than 100 years, 12 These parallels that Sorin voyage, mutiny on board the massive Columbian murals associated between himself and ship, his first sighting of land painted by Italian artist Luigi the discoverer are what and Columbus on his deathbed. Gregori have decorated the sparked the ideas behind the The miniaturization of the building. The murals not only murals, said Bradley. largest of the murals, "Return depict the voyages of Columbus, Gregori's use of campus of Columbus and Reception at but also provide a glimpse of personalities as his models Court," was featured at the life at Notre Dame in the late combined Columbus' New World's Columbian Exposition 19th century as Gregori used World with the new world at in Chicago in the late 19th students, faculty and Notre Dame. He also century. The mural was also administrators as his models. characterized Native American used as the design for a 10 cent 
"The murals are a Indians of the late 19th Century postage stamp commemorating romanticized and nostalgic way in the murals by decorating his the quadricentennial. The of [Gregori] looking back on figures in American Indian stamp was part of a Columbian 400 years of progress," said Warrior costumes, which are set reissued this year. Douglas Bradley, curator of the currently on display at the The feature of the murals at Snite Museum of Art. Snite. For example, "Spain's the Columbian Exposition and 
Luigi Gregori was a painter at King Ferdinand and Queen on the postage stamps received Notre Dame beginning in the Isabella are painted in Native quite a bit of publicity. The mid 1870's when he was American costume as they attention that this publicity brought over from Italy by would have been seen in the drew to Notre Dame was Father Edward Sorin to be the 19th Century," said Bradley. probably exactly what Sorin University's first artist in The use of the American had in mind when he asked residence. Gregori had already Indian in the murals is "typical Gregori to paint them, said painted the ceilings of the of how Europeans perceived Bradley. 
Crichton turnsfantasy into reality in 'Jurassic Park, 
ever suspected. Therein lies the 
By JIM MALLOY 
problem which is the main focus of Crichton's book. Ask any group of fifth graders 
Literary Critic 
In "Jurassic Park," Hammond
Jurassic Park 

does far more than construct an vice-presidential candidate. 
who Bill Clinton picked as his 
attractive, exciting place to take Chances are, more than half of 
the kids when Disney World them will not know the answer. 
Written By Michael Crichton 
becomes tiresome. 
Published by Ballantine Books
In fact, some of them might respond, "Bill who?" Take that 
Hammond, with the help of same group of fifth graders and 
New York 

his scientists, recreated a form ask them to describe a 
of living being that was never tyrannosaurus. Almost every 
399 pp. 

meant to be recreated. Crichton hand in the room is guaranteed 
questions the ability of anyone 
$5.99 

to take responsibility for such There is a very simple to shoot up. 
an act. explanation for the fact that The soundness of this kids know less about AI Gore This is the dream of premise, which could have than they do about a carnivore Crichton's aging, misguided turned into a dry, metaphysical that vanished from the earth character John Hammond. In debate, is demonstrated over 100 million years ago. Kids the novel, Hammond is a skillfully through the action of are scared, excited and philanthropist and a dinosaur the novel. fascinated by dinosaurs, and enthusiast. He spends millions The tour of the park turns these feelings do not disappear of dollars in order to employ into a nightmare when the as they become adults. the best scientific minds in the technological security system 
Michael Crichton, author of world to research methods of begins to fail. The members of the bestseller, "The Andromeda recovering and cloning the touring group, including Strain," taps into this child-like dinosaur DNA. Hammond's two children, are fascination with dinosaurs in However, most of the stuck on an island filled with his recent bestseller, "Jurassic scientists employed by dinosaurs. Park." Hammond are unaware of the 
final project. Only the people The last two-hundred pages 
Imagine a theme park that closest to Hammond realize of the book are filled with recreates a time when what he is trying to accomplish. suspense and incredibly vivid dinosaurs roamed the earth, as Jurassic Park, located on a depictions of the dinosaurs in they did during the Jurassic small island near Costa Rica, is action. period (for which Crichton's nearly completed when "Jurassic Park" is a difficult book is named). Imagine the Hammond invites a group of book to put down. Stephen thrill of driving by a group of scientists and investors on a Spielberg was on location in enormous brontosaurs or tour through the park. Hawaii filming the movie through the legs of a ferocious Another character in the version until Mother Nature tyrannosaurus. The more novel, Dr. Alan Grant, a man intervened in the form of a lifelike the dinosaurs looked, dedicated to the study of fossils, hurricane. If Spielberg does 
The New York Times the more exciting the park is amazed at how much real justice to the special effects as would be. dinosaurs differ from the he has in the past, then Take your imagination one textbook descriptions to which "Jurassic Park" will be a 
step further. How exciting he had contributed. Dinosaurs spectacular visual epic. But -


would the park be if the are quicker, more graceful, and don't wait for the movie. Read 
Michael Crichton provides action and suspense in his recent bestseller, 
dinosaurs were alive? more intelligent than anyone the book first. 
'Jurassic Park.' 
-~~~-~~~­
-A's bash their way to 4-3 win to take series lead 
TORONTO (AP) -The Oak­land Athletics always manage to do things with flair at the SkyDome, don't they? 
Even without Jose Canseco hitting rocket shots, the A's still won with plenty of power Wednesday night. 
Mark McGwire and new Bash Brother Terry Steinbach hit consecutive home runs in the second inning, and Harold Baines led off the ninth with a drive into the second deck in right that gave the A's a 4-3 victory over the Toronto Blue Jays in Game 1 of the American League playoffs. 

Jack Morris and Dave Win­field, the two free agents that Toronto signed in the winter to help them win in October, did their jobs. 
Winfield, hounded by his horrible slump in the 1981 postseason, hit a solo home run in the sixth that made it 3-2, and doubled and scored the tying run in the eighth on John Olerud's two-out single. 
Morris, whose last appear­ance in the postseason pro­duced a 10-inning shutout in Game 7 of the World Series last year and earned him the MVP award, had not allowed a hit since the fourth inning before Baines connected. 
Baines singled in his first two at-bats, then won it when he hit Morris' second pitch of the ninth inning into the stands. 
"It was a slider up over the plate," Baines said. "I was try­ing to drive it well. I don't con­sider myself a great home run hitter, but it was a great time to hit one." 
Dave Stewart went 7 2-3 in­nings and maintained his repu­tation as a big-game pitcher, and Dennis Eckersley enhanced his status by pitching the ninth for a save. 
The A's won their seventh straight playoff game, a streak that dates back to 1989, when they wiped out Toronto in five games. 
Toronto will try to even the series Thursday night when David Cone pitches against Mike Moore. 
"Everybody has kind of writ­ten us off," Steinbach said. "But our attitude all year has been kind of, 'Let's play ball.' Now we have a big game tomorrow. We have a real tough pitcher going against us in David Cone." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classijieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  Earn Free Spring Break Trips & $2500 Selling Spring Break Packages To Bahamas, Mexico,  FOR SALE  Need st. tickets for BYU,B.C.,P.S.? Call Greg@ x2148 Best offer!  NEED 5 PSU, GA or STUDENT & A POOL TABLE  Hey Rob!!! Here's your belated birthday personal!!! Happy 21st!! !II X-mas  
Jamaica, Florida! Best Trips &  CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  CALL MATI@ 233-8514  should be fun, but I'm not in charge  
ATIENTION:  Prices! 1-800-678-6386.  89 MERCEDES ......... $200  HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE  of waking you up this year!! Have  
For more information and  86 VW. ......................... $ 50  AT 618-439-3338.  Need 15 BYU GA'sl  a great rest of the week!!  
assistance regarding the  STUDENTS or ORGANIZATIONS.  87 MERCEDES .......... $100  289-7875  Love ya,  
investigation of financing, business  Promote our Florida Spring Break  65 MUSTANG ............. $ 50  Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call  Julie  
opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER  packages. Earn MONEY and FREE trips. Organize SMALL or LARGE  Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour  1-800-922-BEAR.  PERSONAL  End of 3rd quarter 20-0  
urges its readers to contact the  groups. Call Campus marketing.  Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright  I !!lEnd of game 21-20!!!!  
Better Business Bureau of  800-423-5264  #IN11KJC.  Ditka vs. Dennis: Dennis!  
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  Hey Niff  (the trumpet sounds!)  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ NEED TO GET TO HOUSTON,  For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call  I NEED 1 BC GA,  By the way, Ditka vs. Johnson in  
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­ TEXAS, or anywhere along the way  Rita Delivery on Campus  DAVE, x4506  OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES  November!!  
9121 or 800-439-5313.  over October Break? We need a  234-6524  
rider/driver to help drive rental car.  MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR  GRETCH  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  Must be at least 21yrs old to drive  Old Gibson Les Paul Custom  FREE HAIRCUTS. CALL  HOW MANY MONTHS DOWN?  
rental car. Costs will be relatively  electric guitar, 1969, black, $1000.  COSIMO'S 277-1875.  ONLY 8 TO GO.  
TYPING  inexpensive.  277-9882  WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  ALL MY LOVE  
287-4082  Please call Jill, Carrie, or Allison at  GOOD PENN ST GA "s 2773097  ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif.  
x4758 ASAP if interested I!!!  82 Pontiac for sale, 84000 miles,  family can provide financial security,  F =caliente!  
Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll  clean, runs well, am/fm stereo.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  excellent education and wonderful  
LONG ISLAND BUS  HELP  Asking $600, call 239-5683.  I NEED 2 PENN STATE GA's II  future for your baby. Please let us  DOME-POVERTY  
Sign up this week, only $115 for  Need ride to PHILLY area for Oct.  Betsy 273-1792 (leave message)  help you in this difficult time.  
round trip! Leaving Fri. evening,  Break  TWO TICKETS TO NEWARK  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Confidential and legal. Medical  DITKA said to look for Three for  
10/16 and will be back Fri. night,  Please call Tom x1232  BETWEEN NOV. 22-NOV. 27. $150  expenses paid. Collect any1ime.  Thursday! Here goes ...  
10/23. LIMITED seating. Check  EACH. 288-9658.  Need to trade 2 BC GA's for 2 BYU  (818) 246-1763  
your mail for flyers. Anthony x1867  EARN $1 ,500 WEEKLY mailing our  GA's Call Jim at 232-2107-after  Ditka vs. Hulkster.  
Typing 237-1949  circulars!...Begin NOW!. ..FREE packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box  TICKETS  10:00pm.  But, Hulk has 69 Hulkamaniacs. Ditka!  
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing  4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000.  HELP! HELP! HELP!  Attractive and physically well­ 
NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX  NEED 2-3 BC GA'S.  endowed Notre Dame student with  Coming soon to Texas Stadium ...  
$$$$$$$$$$$  Spring Break '93  CALL JOE OR JAY X1760  MARY 284-5114  good personality needs a date for  Ditka Does Dallas.  
Panama City Beach, Florida  Oct. 10 SYR.  
COMPETE  Sales Representative needed to  I NEED NO FOOTBALL  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  GRACE 11-D + DITKA=  
WITH THE BEST  work with #1 Spring Break Team  TICKETS.272-6306  I will provide transportation,  
TRAVEL ASSOCIATES AND TOUR  YOU HAVE WHAT  beverages, and hours of fun  GRACE 11-DITKA  
5TH ANNUAL  EXCEL. Sell the BEST properties  WANT  whoever answers this ad.  
AT&T INVESTMENT  on the beach  Please help!! I I'm in DESPERATE  Seniors -Graduate School  
CHALLENGE  SUMMIT CONDOMINIUMS  need of Penn State GA's .....  AND WILL PAY FOR I  This is not a joke. I really need a  Preparation. Nuts and Bolts  
MIRACLE BEACH RESORT  T  date.  Workshop. Thursday, October 8  
TAKE YOUR FICTIONAL $500,000  HOLIDAY INN  Call Ann 284-5241  4:00 p.m. Notre Dame Room,  
BROKERAGE ACCOUNT AND  PIER 99  Y E S, Y 0 U K N 0 W W H AT  You can call me AI. ..  Lafortune Student Center.  
MAKE MILLIONS=  Earn top commission and free trips  I'M TALKING ABOUT  at 283-2703.  
For more information call: Julie  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  S. T. E. D. S.  
JUST LIKE WALL STREET  1-800-558-3002  PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston  I NEED YOUR GAs  (in the theme of s.t.u.d.s.)  
College GAs or student tix. Call Jill  AND YOU NEED  PAWN BUY SELL TRADE  tonite 8pm st.eds 1st floor lounge  
REGISTRATION DEADLINE:  I AM A 21 YR. OLD COLLEGE  @ x4758 or x4721.  MY MONEY  Ken Maverick & Matt Day1on +  
OCTOBER 30, 1992  STUDENT EMPLOYED BY  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  OZARK TRADING POST  Carly Yez;z:i & Kristin Egelston &  
HURRY! DON'T DELAY  STUDENT PAINTERS. I'VE BEEN  CALL ME ANYTIME !!I!  1530 WESTERN AVE.  Michelle Crouch = ????????  
PROMOTED TO EXEC. POSITION  NEED 4 PENN ST. GA'S  K Y L I E 234-9433  287-7550  
1-800-545-1975 EXT. 12  AND NEED MANAGERS FOR  NICKX4284  BASKETBALL COURT TIME AT  
$$$$$$$$$$$  SUMMER EMPLOYMENT.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes  STEPAN CENTER. ...... any hall or  
ILOST & FOUND I  ELKHART, MICH. CITY, LAPORTE, NILES, THREE RIVERS/SCHOOLCRAFT. SALES  NEED PENN STATE TIX-call Sam x4842  WANTED 3 GA's NO VS BYU 10/24 CALL COLLECT 215-355­ every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am Eastern Time. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment ant  organization wishing to reserve weekly court time at Stepan for the 1992-93 academic year, must  
EXP. PREFERRED, BUT NOT  7131 RON  training programs. Licensed  attend a meeting TODAY at 4pm in  
"N.D. Mom" lost gold bracelet on  NESS. MUST HAVE GREAT ADD.  NEED 4 BYU GA's  instructors. FFI call Skydive  the Montgomery Theatre, 1st fl.  
Sunday Oct. 4th, Stephan Field.  AND WORK HARD. AVG.  Call Dan at 233-4140  PITI TICKETS!!!  Hastings (616) 948-2665.  Lafortune. Any questions, call  
South Dining Hall. Flanner Hall  EARNINGS 8,000. CALL 1-800­ Leave message.  FOR SALE  Student Activities 239-7308.  
area. Great Sentimental value.  543-3793 ASK FOR TOM SMITH.  Take 4 men and a babe-magnet,  
Reward. Please contact Fr. Bill.  I NEED 2 BYU TICKETS  CALL D. J. or scon@ 1246  add WEIGHTGAIN (and hydrofuel),  Vito the Fishman, Roy, & the South  
Flanner Hall Rector 239-8104.  Need ride to S. Jersey/Phila. area  student or GA's  and put them all in a room w/ a  Bend Homeless Shelter would like  
Thank you!  for Oct. break. Will pay $$! Call  Call Dave X3573  I have 2 BYU, 50 yd line GA'sll  shower, 5 lofts, and a 69 in it, and  to wish Gail Carey a Happy  
Maureen @ 2862  I want to trade these for any  you get a frightning overdose of  Birthday! We love you knappy  
LOST: Black and Gold Crucifix  Need One Ticket For Boston  2 Penn St. GA's. Joe x1395  testosterone that could mean the  Nilluc!!  
(Broken from Chain) If found  Riders needed for October break.  College!!! Call 273-2967111  end of the world!  
please call Bill x1131  However, only one way between  $$NEED 1 Penn. St. ticket call Eric  -the  
school and Baton Rouge-my  ************HEY!***************  at x4284 will pay good money$$  Brett- 
LOST: LOST ON STEPHEN  parents are making me fly back.  I Need Tickets  It had to be you.  Let's go camping!  
FIELDS AFTER FOOTBALL  Please call Anne 284-4425.  TICKETS NEEDED-10 plus BYU  What-ev-er  
PRACTICE...SMALL  7 Penn State GA's  GA's-Dan #1852 $$4U  Hey Niemann !I Get some sleep...  
CAMOFLAGE LEATHER WALLET  COLUMBIA MISSOURI OR BUST  2 BCGA's  i Que pasa con el gran  HEY EVERYONE  
WITH 1.0., LICENSE, ECT.  FOR OCT. BREAK I NEED A RIDE  NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S.  smoochador? -roomie  
PLEASE RETURN!! KATH ANNE  TO COLUMBIA OR ST. LOUIS­ If You Got' em Call JOCIE x3783  HAVE BYU ST. TICKET TO SELL  MARY B. GOOD  
X4011  AIRPORT CALL CHRIS 273-8355  JAY X1528  What was it that Lauri said the other  
night?  I had to get you back for what you  
•••Lost on North Quad•••  WANTED:  PITI!! PITI!! Need 4  California ALUM desperate for Penn  "You can't get into my bed unless  printed about me.  
My roommate has locked me out of  Call Pete (1-800-322-0228)  State GAs Top$. Pis lv mess. ((  you know the trick."  
the room and I can't get back in  Experienced bartender  (415)597-2319  (And you thought we had forgotten.)  P.S. Sorry you took it personally.  
without my keys. They're on a  for this Friday 9 -11 p.m.  Will trade 4 BYU tix for 2 BC tix and  Paybacks really are hell. Sorry.  
leather string, #407.  If interested, please call  2 Penn St tix. Call (708)665-1827.  &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&  HELP! STRANDED GRACE  
x2320  FRESHMAN NEEDS A RIDE TO  Desperate female needs ride to  
Also, I lost a silver Notre Dame  In Need of  Help me out, Help me out  PHILL Y AREA FOR FALL BREAK  Twin Cities area for fall break.  
medal on a silver chain which belonged to my grandfather when  FOR RENT  Because Because  WILL SPLIT TOLLS, GAS, TICK­ETS AND BAIL!!! X1658  Will pay gas, tolls, and even a sundae with all the toopings.  
he went here. It says No. 141 on  Call Leah 284-4308  
the back. I know it looks really cool,  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  BC  My parents, sisters and  Rewind the Neil Diamond tapes ­ 
but it means a lot to me. I'll give  219-291-7153  tickets  grandparents are coming for BYU.  we'll all know the words by the time  GOOD LUCK PYROS I!!  
you money, whatever, just give it  They would like to see one game  we get to Tennessee, if not  
back. MATI x1530  2 room efficiency , utilities paid  together before I graduate.  Cincinnati! (Scary ... )  The Best Defeated Team  
$7 a day, 288-0955  (as many as humanly possible)  PLEASE offer your B Y U GAs  in the League  
WANTED  2 BR house, basement, garage,  call Aileen X4292  to me.  SP:  
stove, refrigerator. @ 1115 Vassar,  Will trade two BC G.A.'s for two  Thank you for your help.  WE'LL CARRY YOUR BAGS!!  Don't worry about Saturday. You  
ALASKA SUMMER  NW near campus. $300/mo +  BYU tix Call 277-8263  Joe G. x 1161  in the  won't have to defend yourself, and  
EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn  Utilities. Yr lease & deposit. Grad  LYONS GOLF CLASSIC  can let down your guard because  
- $5000+/month. Free transportation I Room & Board! Over 8000  students (20K) preferred. 272-1265  -NEED 2 BYU GA'&-­PARENTS ON 1800 MILE TRIP TO  &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&  SIGN UP IN NOH & SOH THE  your date will be able to do all the protecting. Love, Your Roommies  
openings. No experience  SECLUDED 4BR, 2BATH  SEE ONE GAME. WILL PAY  Need 2 BC GAs  REST OF THIS WEEKI! 4  
necessary. Male or Female. For  COUNTRY HOME NEAR CAMPUS.  PRICE FOR TIX  X2529  PERSON SCRAMBLE (9 holes),  KJ;  
employment program call Student  4 MEN OR 4 WOMEN. $210  CHRIS x1463  WINNING TEAM WINS $10011  You can rest assured that your date  
Employment Services at 1-206-545­ MONTH PER PERSON, LEASE.  WILLING TO TRADE:  $10/per GOLFER, includes  is taller than you and will be a  
4155 ext A5584.  DEPOSIT. 272-0806.  Need st. tickets for BYU,B.C.,P.S.?  I HAVE 1 BC GA AND NEED 1 BYU  RAFFLE PRIZES & CADDY!!!  bundle of laughs. Have a great time  
Call Greg @ x2148 Best offer!  GA -call Darrell 273-2873  Saturday.  

-~--~--­

NFL STANDINGS 
MLB STANDINGS 
-

WALES CONFERENCE AMEruCAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCEBRAVES 13, PIRATES 5Patrick Division Quarterbacksw L T Pts GF GA Pittsburgh 000 000 410-5 7 0 AH Com Tds TO lntNew Jersey 1 0 0 2 4 3 Atlanta 040 040 SOx-t 3 14 0 Kelly, But. 147 92 1334 11 6Washtngton 1 0 0 2 6 5 a-struck out lor Mason In the 2nd. b-flted out for Moon,Hou 140 94 1145 7 7Phtladelphta 0 0 1 1 3 3 Hunter tn the 5th. c-s•ngtPd tor Tomhn tn the 7th Manno. Mta. 144 90 1081 7 5Ptttsburgh 0 0 1 1 3 3 d-struck out tor Redus tn IM 7th a-walked tor Kneg, K.C. 123 76 943 3 2NY Rangers 0 0 0 0 0 0 O'Donnell. Ptt 110 58 847 4 3
McClendon 1n the 8th. !-struck out for Wohlers tn

NY Islanders 0 1 0 0 3 4 the Bth Elway, Den 121 65 884 4 4Adams Division Millen, N.E. 125 82 791 5 8, LOB-Pntsburgh 7, Atlanta 9. 2B­
Montreal 0 0 2 5 1 McCiendon 11). Pendleton (1). Stanton (1). 3B­Nagle, NY-J 138 69 878 4 4
Boston 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Ltnd (1), Blauser (1) HR-Gant (1) oft Walk. Mannovtch, Rat 108 59 772 2 5Buffalo 0 0 0 0 0 0 Stouffer, Sea 127 6 t 591 2 3
RBis-McCiendon 11), Slaugh! (1), Ltnd 2 (3),

onawa 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Blauser (2), Pendi•Mn 2 13) Jus!lce 2 (2), Gant 4 

Quebec 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Rushers
(4), Berryhill (1), Lemke (21. Avery (1). Stanton

Hartford 0 1 0 0 1 5 
(1). SB-Ntxon (2) SF-Avery AH Yds Avg LG TOCAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Foster, Ptt. 9? 4'i0
Runners left m sconng posltlon­49 69 3Norris Division Pntsburgh 3 (VanSlyke. Bonds. Ltnd); Atlanta 5 Word, K.C. 101 40G 40 25 2w L T Pts GF GA (Pendleton, Just•cf.l, Brr:;!rlrn, G;mt, Avery). T. Thomas, Buf 84 3A3 4.6 31 5St. Louts 1 0 0 2 6 4 Green, Crn. 74 362 49
Runners moved uo-VanSiyke, 52 1Chtcago 0 0 0 0 0 0 Ktng, Slaught, Pend•eton 2. Warren. Sea. 76 347 46 52 1Tampa Bay 0 0 0 0 0 0 Whtte, Hou. 62 304 4 9 44 1lnhent8d runners-scored-MasonDetrott 0 1 0 0 4 Htggs, Mta. 84 2Q2 3 5 13
1-0, Tomltn 1-0. Pattwson 2-0. Freeman 1-0,

Mmnesota 0 0 0 4 6 Stanton 2-0. Wohlers 1-1 Bernstme, S 0 <'0 2R9 4.8 19Toronto 0 0 0 5 6 Thomas, NY-J 53 247 4 7 17 0
lAB-off N•'~niR CNtxon) 1, off Walk

Smythe D1v1s1on 
(Justice) 1. WP-Avery PFI-8P.rryhtll. Dickerson, Rat 62 22g 3 7 40 1Los Angeles 1 0 0 2 5 Vancouver 1 0 0 2 5 4 ATHLETICS 4, BLUE JAYS 3 
Receivers
,

Wtnntpeg 0 0 2 4 1 No Yds Avg LG TOSan Jose 0 n r 0 0 0 Oakland 030 000 001-4 6 1 
Reed, But 32 51 2 16.0 51 2Calgary 0 1 r 0 4 5 Toronto 000 011 010-3 9 o 
Jetftres, Hou 29 337 11 6 47 2Edmonton 0 1 0 0 4 5 a-stngled for Lee rn the 9•h 
Duncan, Hou. 25 3C7 12.3 33 0Tuesday's Games 
1-ran tor Olerud tn the Bth 2-ran tor Fryar, N.E. 24 366 15 3 39 3Wash mgton 6. ToroPto 5 Sprague tn the 9th 
Mtller, S.D. 2' 300 14 3 67 2Montreal 5, HCl"'lord 1 E-RHenderson ( 1) LOB-Oakland 4 Harmon, S.D 21 298 14.2 55 0New JP"AY 4. NPw Vorl< Islanders 3 Toronto 7. 28-Wtnfteld (1) HR-Wtnlteld (1) oti 
T. Thomas, But. 20 2G6 13 3 43 2Phtladelr>hta 3 Pttlshurgh 3. tte Stewart, Borders (1) off Stewart. Batnes (1) off 
Wtlliams, Sea 20 128 64 20 0
W1nmpef1 4, 0Plro•t 1 JaMorns, McGwtre (1) off Jallftorns. Stetnbach (t) Graham, Pn. 1 g 334 17 6 51 1
Sl. Lou•s 6, r~~~l!lnP<>OI::t 4 

off JaMorns. RBis-Batnes (1), McGwtre 2 (2), Lofton, But 1 g 292 15 4 50 2Los AnqPies 5 C•lqary 4. OT 
Stetnbach (1). Wtnfteld (11. Olerud (1), Borders 

Moore, NY -J 19 288 15 2 41 1 (1). SB-WWtlson (11, Rlllomar (1). GlOP­
Toon, NY-J 19 190 10 0 28 1 Lansford, Stetnbach. RAiomar. Gruber 
L. Hams, Hou. 19 1A9 99 27 Runners left m sconn~ pos111on-Oakland 3 • McNatr, K.C. 1 g 151 7 g 
20 (Sierra, WWtlson, BordtCkJ, Toronto 3 (RAiomar !SconngCarter2) · 
Touchdowns D P -Oakland 2 rBord:ck. Blankenshtp and 
Til 
Ru"'h Rec Ret
McGwtre), (Bordtck, Blank~n"'"D and McGwtre)· 

T. Thomas, But 5 2 0 42
Toronto 2 (JaMoms, LPR and Olerud). (Lee: 

Metcalf. Cle. 
3 0 24RAiomar and Oterud) Ball, Crn. 

I 0 18 Foster, Ptt. 
0 0 18
WP-JaMomc: 


CAMPUS MoosrRY... 

. .... CoNSIDERA'IIONS 
Perspective A series of campus events leads me to a consideration of the importance of perspective in our lives. 
The remarkably nice weather of the last few weeks seems to have given plenty of opportunities for the architecture students to sit around on the lawn during class hours and draw pictures of campus buildings. I expect that they are learning how important it is to consider perspective and viewpoint in their drawings if they ever hope to represent their subject as it really is. Things look very different depending upon where you are coming from. 
This week is Multicultural Week at Notre Dame. The premise is that to hold up and celebrate a variety of backgrounds and cultures within our community will deepen the educational experience for all of us. On Sunday it began with a celebration of praise in the LaFortune Ballroom. Hispanic trumpets and guitars, Hawaiian hula dancing, African~ American poetry and Islamic wisdom together called all the participants to a wider vision of faith and a deeper respect for the variety of cultures. Throughout the week there has been music and food from an assortment of ethnic backgrounds on the Fieldhouse Mall and Fireside Chats on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
Unfortunately, it appears that from the perspective of most of our students, this is a very busy time, with plenty of papers and tests, and so these worthy events are underattended. Hopefully, by Friday night, the pressure will be off, and those not already booked up for an SYR somewhere will consider going over to Stepan Center and joining the closing event called "A Taste of Nations." Rumor has it that college students are fond of free food ~ so be there, or be square. 
Sunday's closing of the Sesquicentennial Year seemingly calls us to another perspective, that of gratitude and amazement for clear accomplishments over time. Years ago, there wasn't much here~ now there's a fine, big school. Years ago, the whole deal burned down~ faith and hope built it back up. Years ago, the project was placed under the patronage of the Blessed Mother, and the fruit of that decision is seen everywhere. May a prayerful liturgy and a joyful picnic renew us all and lead us to hope. 
Finally, on Monday, several special events may call us to perspective. First off, that day is the 50()lh anniversary of Columbus' arrival in the New World. For some it will be a celebration of courage and discovery; for others it will be a painful reminder of invasion and subjugation. It depends on your perspective. In Chicago thousands will march to celebrate the brave Italian sailor. At Notre Dame on Monday night, Amnesty International will sponsor a vigil on the Fieldhouse Mall to remember the plight of indigenous peoples, those victimized in the bloody past and those yet suffering around the world today. For the powerful, history is a series of stories about empires and conquests and victories in war. For too many of the common folk of too much of history, life is a challenge for survival while being between the agenda of assorted greedy warlords. The East Africans have a saying that "when two bull elephants fight, it's only the grass that suffers." Plenty of people from the slums of Panama to the sands of Somalia know the meaning of that proverb. 
The other anniversary to be celebrated this coming Monday may also ask for some appreciation of the perspective of those who suffer. October 12 is being called "Coming Out Day" for the gay and lesbian communities in the United States. We can imagine that in a variety of towns and university settings, there will be parades and speeches and self~ declarations. We can also imagine that at Notre Dame and St. Mary's there will probably not be much public activity at all. Maybe that's fine, maybe it's not. Some years ago, a couple of guys from a certain dorm declared themselves gay on a campus radio interview show and started a persecution of themselves and their entire dorm that really embarrassed everyone involved. What would happen nowadays, I'm just not sure. Some would likely be 
hostile, others would celebrate courage. But what is clear is that very little about our atmosphere will soften or grow until many more of us are willing and able to see life from the perspective of others, and particularly from the perspective of those who suffer the most. 
Perspective is one of the tools architects use to create new buildings; may it be one of the tools we all can use to create a newness of life. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
Cfosing Liturgy Cefe6rating tlie 
St£SQf[llCE9{P£9{9{J!U 
Oj'TJlE 

f{b..[J'VE!RJIPY OJ' '1\[0EJ{'E 'iJ51%'E 
Sunday, October 11, 3:30 p.m. Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS SUNDAY 
1§1: Reading  2 KINGS 5, 14-17  
rm Reading  2 TIMOTHY 2: 8-13  
Gospel  LUKE 17: 11-19  

-
-Xavier sneaks past Irish in MCC championship 
Special to the Observer 
The Xavier Musketeers opened up a ten shot lead over the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame after nine holes today and then held on to win the Sh­erwjn-WOliams Midwestern 
Lou 
continued from page 20 
coach can only call the plays, 
he can't execute them. He made 
a number of mistakes in 
preparation for last Saturday's 
loss, but that wasn't the reason 
Notre Dame lost. 
Subtract the fumbles from 
Saturday's game and the 
Michigan tie as well, and the 
Irish are sitting pretty at 5-0. 
ranked number three in coun­
try. A coach can't point the fin-
Men 
continued from page 20 
legs but he was able to save it 
before it crossed the line and 
save the victory for the Irish. 
"Detroit came in excited and 
playing hard just like everyone 
does when they play here and 
we were able to handle it," 
Berticelli said. 
One thing Berticelli had 
trouble handling was a goal 
that was called back late in the 
game because of an off-sides 
call.. 
"That's the fifth goal we've had called back and four of them were mistakes," he commented. "It is frustrating because these calls are costing us a lot." 
The call didn't cost them 
Wednesday, however, as they 
improved to 6-4-1 overall and 
3-1 in the MCC. 

Collegiate Conference men's The Musketeers were led by golf championship at the tournament medalist, David von Brookwood Golf Course in Haefen (226) and third-place Buchanan, Michigan. The vic­finisher. Jon Sweeten (229). Von tory marks the third consecu­Haefen shot a three-over-par 75 tive year that Xavier has won in the final round, the best the tournament. score of the day. to finish two strokes ahead of Dayton senior Davis Boland (228). 
Despite the efforts of Notre Dame senior co-captains Joe Dennen (223) and 1991 medalist Chris Dayton (232), the Irish were unable to make up the deficit. The Musketeers were able to clinch an eleven stroke victory. Detroit-Mercy was only seven shots behind after the first two rounds, but fell off the pace in the third round to finish 28 shots back in third place. Butler finished fourth followed by Dayton, La Salle, Loyola, Evansville and Duquesne. 
Xavier coach Doug Steiner was happy with his team's performance. 
''I'm real proud of David von Haefen. He had a good first nine today and when he started to have trouble on the back nine, he kept his head and still finished strong," said Steiner. The junior carded a two-under­par 34 on the front nine, then dropped four strokes on the first three holes of the back nine. He regrouped to par five of the last six holes. 
Steiner was also proud of the performance by Jon Sweeten. 
"Last year, Jon Sweeten was close to the last player on our team. He averages about 84 per round. This year, his average is closer to 7 4. It is a real tribute to his hard work and determination." 
Detroit-Mercy coach Mark Engel won Coach of the Year honors while freshman Jason Paholsky, also of Detroit-Mercy, earner Newcomer of the Year honors. 

ger at specific players (something Mike Ditka has yet to learn.) A coach must shoul­der the blame for his team when a loss occurs. Holtz has taken the responsibility for the loss and for the tie with Michi­gan when it really wasn't en­tirely his fault. 
The Notre Dame faithful and the press have overlooked the real reason's the Irish are 3-1­
1. They are satisfied with laying all the blame on Holtz. and the Irish coach is feeling the effects. 
Holtz has stated he wants to end his career here. He wants to coach as long as he still en­joys coaching. With the obvious increase in pressure on Holtz this year, the question must be raised as to what is too much. When will he stop loving coaching? 
Those questions should make Irish fans reach for their Lou rags to wipe the sweat from their foreheads. If the pressure on Holtz continues, Notre Dame better hope that the Lou mask can lead them in the years to come, because the real thing will be gone. 
HEART 
We're Making a 
Difference. 
• 
•
Amencan Heart ~~,'7'
Association ~

DISfASE 
' 

The Observer 
is looking for business and economic students to write a guest column for the l3usiness Page. If interested contact Business Editor Pancho Lozano at 239-7471 

'I~'\ ~ ;r~Jf

@~·--( ,, . ~ -,
.. . \. ';,;;;; r
~ 
'-' . . ­
' ~"' .,.. 
~\ j /1 -.:~_.] i3 

. /~ 
"''E------~ 
-~ 
-

ANYONE INTERESTED IN FORMING A PEP BAND FOR OLYMPIC SPORTING EVENTS OR ANY GROUP INTERESTED IN AUDITIONING PLEASE CALL MEG AT 239-8103 ~ 
I r;::,, 


~F 
~/~ 


-
Thursday, October 8, 1992 The Observer page 15 
Braves throttle Pirates to take commanding edge 
ATLANTA (AP) -Oh, what years without a big inning in Pirates manager Jim Leyland pitching. Atlanta has it all. Oh, postseason play, but the four said. "But I don't think what hitting. The Braves own meaningless runs in the seventh anybody's pressing and you can that, too. The only oh for the came after Atlanta was well on throw out all the psychological Pittsburgh Pirates: 0-and-2. its way to a 13-5 victory stuff. What we need are some 
Steve Avery on the left, John Wednesday and a 2-0 lead in hits." Smoltz on the right, 20-game the best-of-7 series. winner Tom Glavine ahead of And soon. Only two of the 10 them. Everywhere the Pirates "The weight's on their shoul­teams to trail 2-0 in the NL look, they see trouble. They're ders now," Avery said. "They playoffs have rallied to win the playing the best team in base­wanted to come in here and series, and the Pirates give no ball, and they certainly look split and they didn't do it." sign they'll be the third to do it. second-best to the Braves in the "We were embarrassed. If they don't, they'll be the first National League playoffs. We're in an uphill climb and it's team since the 1976-78 Phillies 
Pittsburgh finally ended 13 not a good situation to be in," to lose three straight playoffs. 
grinned. Mandy Eiler and the rest of Sometimes shooting back is the Saint Mary's soccer team
SMC 
difficult. Especially on a bus will be playing at Wooster Col­ride, when the entire soccer lege on Saturday, October lOth.
continued from page 20 
team is swaying and serenading Then the Belles will play at goat. I enjoy it, but I try to this Saint Mary's junior with Denison University on Sunday,shoot right back at them." Eiler Barry Manilow's "Mandy". October 11th. 
R E S E R V E OFFICERS' TRAINING C 0 R P S 

Your Uncle Sam. Every year Army fees. They even pay a flat rate for text­ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds of books and supplies. You can also receive talented students. If you qualify, 
an allowance of up to $1000 each these merit-based scholarships can school year the scholarship is in help you pay tuition and educational effect. Find out today if you qualify. 
ARMYROTC 
THE SMARTESTCOWGE COIJRSEYOUCAN TAKE. 

Call Captain Selling, 239-6264 or 6986 for more information. 

Ill 
::z:: 
.... 

"We've been getting our heads beat in and we've got a headache," Andy Van Slyke said. "We're in the emergency room and we hope we're not in intensive care by Friday." 
The cure? 
"We've got to score some runs, get out in front and win a game, there's no secret to that," Leyland said. 
"It's definitely not a good sit­uation to be in, two games down, but this is also the major leagues," Braves shortstop Jeff Blauser said. "That's a pretty good team over there." 

Not so far. The Pirates have been outscored 18-6 in the series, and they've now got to face Glavine-he's 4-0 against them this season -in Game 3 Friday in Pittsburgh. 
"The pressure's on them now," said Avery, whose major league-record record streak of 22 1-3 scoreless playoff innings was stopped in the seventh. 
Mandy Eiler, shown here against St. Joseph's College, is a quiet sparkplug for the Saint Mary's soccer team. 
You Deserve Better! Lunch 
12~2 
This Friday 
mustbe21 
Sunday·s Rre For Students 
~orr!~!! 
Downtown South Bend 
Free Food 8p.m.-1Dp.m. Specials Bp.m.-12 
Come with your friends to watch Sunday night football, enjoy FREE food, great specials and Rwesome Halftime Rafflesllllll 

A bi-monthly support group 
For gay and lesbian undergraduates 
Meeting 1st and 3rd Thursday Evenf(lgs 
7:00p.m. 
P.O. Box 194 Notre Dame, lN 46556 
-

.----------------------------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer Thursday, October 8, 1992 
Paterno a nemesis of Miami 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. (AP) -­Twenty-five years ago, a skinny, second-year coach with thick­rimmed glasses earned the first major victory when Penn State beat favored Miami in the Orange Bowl. 
That young coach was Joe Pa­terno, whose team plays Miami again on Saturday. The last three times the Nittany Lions and Hurricanes have played, the result had a direct impact on the national championship. 
Saturday's game should be no different. The Hurricanes (4-0) are ranked second, the Nittany Lions (5-0) seventh. 
"Anybody who plays college football and doesn't look for­ward to playing a game against a team as good as Miami shouldn't be in the game," Penn State coach Joe Paterno said. "I shouldn't be in coaching if I wasn't looking forward to this." 
Penn State and Miami have played 10 times, nine with Pa­terno coaching the Nittany Lions. The most famous matchup is the 1987 Fiesta Bowl showdown for the na­tional championship, which Penn State won, 14-10. 

But in 1981, Miami beat then­No. 1 Penn State, 17-14, help­ing boost the Hurricanes to the near-complete dominance of college football they have en­joyed since. 
The Hurricanes beat the Lions last year 26-20 on the way to their fourth title in nine years. If Penn State hopes to be the Miami of the future, they must beat the Hurricanes on Satur­day. 
"We took a tough one last year," wide receiver O.J. Mc­Duffie said. "We felt afterward that we should have won the game. It's been a bad taste in everybody's mouth since then." 
In 1967, it was a victory over Miami that propelled the Lions to their most successful period. 
Paterno began coaching in 1966, but his team's five victo­ries that year came against Maryland, Boston College, West Virginia, California and Pitt. 
It wasn't until the second game of the 1967 season that Paterno won against a well­established team. It came against Miami, which finished 1966 ranked ninth and opened the 1967 season No. 8 in the preseason poll. 
Both teams entered the game with 0-1 records, but Penn State had to leave three defen­sive starters at home because of injuries. The Lions --11-point underdogs --started six sophomores on defense. 
"Penn State, which will open its home season against na­tionally ranked UCLA one week from tomorrow, will not be at full strength for Coach Charlie Tate's Hurricanes, whose name appeared among the top echelon in pre-season polls," the Centre Daily Times news­paper of State College reported the day of the game. 
The next morning, after a 17­8 victory, the paper's headline read "Teen-Agers Ambush Mi­ami." 
That year's sophomores lost only one more game in their college careers --the UCLA game the next week. The Lions were 30-0-1 before losing to Colorado in 1970. 
Irish hockey nabs home radio contract 
WNDU-AM 1490 will be the radio voice of Notre Dame Hockey this winter as the Irish take to the ice in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association, the University and WNDU have announced. 
Chuck Freeby will call the ac­tion for the Irish, as WNDU tentatively plans to broadcast all 14 home games beginning with the Oct. 30-31 matchup with the defending NCAA champions, the Lake Superior State Lakers. 
Freeby covered Irish hockey as a Notre Dame student from 1982-86. "I'm excited to be a part of Notre Dame hockey and the CCHA," said Free by. 

"We are already enjoying the benefits of joining the CCHA, and this is just another step that shows the commitment to hockey at Notre Dame," said sixth-year head coach Ric Schafer. "Within our commu­nity and within our recruiting realm, people have taken notice that Notre Dame has recommitted itself to hockey. WNDU's broadcasts are a great addition to the program. It's further testimony that the hockey program is taken very seriously by the athletic de­partment." 
The Irish have 14 home 
Business & Computer Science Graduates 

Where You Go Has A Lot To Do With Where You Start! 
UJB Financial Corporation has exposed to virtually every area a lot to offer today's graduate, of the company. You'll receive starting with exciting entry­excellent on-the-job training, level career opportunities. As a while enjoying a competitive top ranked, notably progres­starting salary, outstanding sive financial institution, we benefits, continuous learning also offer a opportunities, dynamic pace and educational 
On Campus

and solid reimbursement. potential for There area
Recruiting

upward lot of reasons to mobility. Friday, begin your career Ifyou're with our $13 bil­graduating November6 lion organization, 
with a Business degree and at least 12 Accounting Credits, or a Computer Science degree, you'll find the solution to your expectations in our Auditing Division. 
You'll work in a congenial 
group comprised of other 
recent graduates and will be 

-
headquartered in Princeton. Find out all about them, when you join us on Friday, November 6. Opportunities are available throughout New Jersey and Eastern Pennsylvania. 
For additional informa­tion, please contact your Career Center. 
DUJB -FINANCIAL 
Equal Opportunity Employer 

games, including a six-game swing in mid-January that has the Irish playing three straight weekend series at home. All games begin at 7 p.m. 
o0
0~ 
~~(/) ~.:Yo~ 9 
'" _,~o ~o· 
~ 



CONCERT OF LITURGICAL MUSIC IN CELEBRATION OF 111E 150111 ANNIVERSARY OF NOTRE DAME PERFORMING 
'l(:pJ{JUSSM{CE 'MVS I C ~01lS!'f l'J{JJ 0~ TJfE C1{'ll'li,CJl 

PARAMOUNT PICTURES PRESENTS A PERCY MAIN/LEGENDE PRODUCTION A RIDLEY SCOTT FILM GERARD DEPARDIEU 1492:CONOUEST OF PARADISE ARMAND ASSANTE AND SIGOURNEY VVEAVER MUS~~VANGELIS 
•.!'J~~'i.1.".."•.'1~ADRIAN BIDDLE. B.S.C. PROOUCE\\~MARC BOYMAN AND ROSELYNE BOSCH .~'l.'h'i.~r~~= MIMI PoLK SoTELA AND lAIN SMITH wRm:~ RosELYNE BoscH 
PROOuc:~ RIDLEY SCOTT AND ALAIN GOLDMAN ooREcr:~ RIDLEY SCOTT nt"'l~· A PARAMOUNT COMMUNtCATIONS COMPANY 
ft 

IPG·t3IPAREmSTROIIGI.YCAUTIDNED""I ~~ ···--··-..·-·~·-.... -,.~R~· r ·, 
,..._...........,..,.......QtWr..u..t1S.e EAST WE:;>~~;'ci~:;~~:~~E~V:~:~~~O:!CT DISCS ;. •/ \\l ... 
COMING OCTOBER 9 TO THEATRES EVERYWHERE 
Thursday, October 8, 1992 The Observer page 17 
BP romp heads interhall action 

By HEATHER WILEY 
Sports Writer 
Breen-Phillips defeated Lyons Sunday night 12-6 to preserve their undefeated record this season. Michelle Hurst had a strong night, scoring a touch­down on BP's second possession and again in the second half. Lyons also had a strong night and were able to move the ball well throughout the game. 
"I was really impressed by Lyons. They were a much-im­proved team than we've seen in the past and their defense played really tough," said BP captain Darcy Mehling. "It was a good game." 
Hurst also had another key play, when on a fourth and twelve she broke for a thirty­yard gain and a BP first down, setting up the drive for the game-winning touchdown. 
Lyons next game will be against Pangborn on Sunday at 8 p.m. while BP will have a bye. 
Badin 6 Off-Campus 0 
Badin defeated the Off-Cam­pus team Sunday by sending Andrea Ricker into the endzone with a center-sneak play that proved to be the only score of the game. Both teams stood out with strong defense and both were able to move the ball pretty well throughout the game. Shelly Dillenburger had two interceptions for Badin's defense, which was especially 

~O~l)UE PAJl{o 
Featuring ~ Beef, Chicken, Seafood and 
Vegetarian Fondue Entrees 
And Our Famous Flaming Chocolate Dessert 
A GREAT PLACE FOR DINNER BEFORE YouR SYR/FORMAL 
Upper Level Old Brewery 100 Center Complex, Mishawaka • Phone: 255-1526 Tue.-Thur. 5-9 p.m. • Fri.-Sat. 5-10 p.m. 
Reservations Appreciated 


HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
GAIL! 
Love, Mom & Dad 
tough. 
"We tried to keep it mainly a ground game at the end to pre­vent them from having a chance to intercept, " said Badin quarterback Shari Shepard,"0­C's defense was strong." 
Badin's next game is Sunday against Howard at 6 p.m. and Off-Campus faces Walsh at 4 p.m. 
Walsh 21 Pangborn 18 
Walsh defeated a determined Pangborn team in a close game Sunday night. The score at the half put Walsh in the lead with a touchdown, but Pangborn~ team caught up quickly to give Walsh a run for her money, scoring two touchdowns in the last nine minutes of play. 
"It got close. They (Pangborn) had a good comeback, but we managed to pull it off," said Walsh captain Laura LaVigne who turned in a touchdown of her own from an interception in the second half. Yvonne McCray and Terry Castelucci also had strong offensive games with a touchdown apiece. 
Walsh plays Off-Campus Sunday at 4 p.m. and Pangborn will meet Lyons at 8 p.m. 
Farley 13 Siegfried 7 
Farley claimed the victory over the Siegfried Slammers after the Finest's quarterback Molly Riestenberg completed the winning touchdown pass with ten seconds left in the game. Rebecca Law also played 
THE 

well, scoring for Farley on a  
four-yard run off an option pass  
from Riestenberg.  
Siegfried quarterback Marcie  
McNiel also had a strong game,  
scoring on a twenty-yard  
touchdown run.  
Siegfried will face undefeated  
PW this Sunday at 9 p.m. and  
Farley will play Knott at 5 p.m.  
Knott 6 PE 0  
Knott shut out the PE Pyros  
with a touchdown scored on a  
Karen Wells fifty yard pass to  
Karen Weigert. Pasquerilla  
East played strong offensively,  
managing to move the ball well.  
Pyro quarterback Allison  
Kossler also had a strong game.  
A game-breaking play came  
with a tackle from Beth Hinchey  
on a fourth down play at the  
one yard-line that PE could not  
convert, allowing Knott to  
preserve their win.  
Knott plays Farley this Sun­ 
day at 5 p.m. to determine  
which team will have the play­ 
off berth, and Pasquerilla East  
will meet Lewis at 7 p.m.  
PW 14 Lewis 12  
Pasquerilla West defeated  
Lewis in a close game Sunday  
night that saw Lewis in the lead  
at 12-7 for most of the game  
until the Weasels managed  
another touchdown to put them  
over the top.  
Kristie Lewis scored for PW  
on two consecutive passes from  
quarterback Bethany Riddle,  
and Jenny Tate contributed one  
as well. Bridget Graham had a  
big side-line run that took her  
to the endzone, but it was de­ 
termined that she was down  
and the play did not count.  
PW will meet the Siegfried  
Slammers Sunday at 9 p.m. and  
Lewis will play PE at 7 p.m.  
Women  of the season. Although the game didn't pose much of a challenge for  
continued from page 20  Notre Dame, Petrucelli still felt the game was important.  
unassisted goal, her first score  "The great thing about these  

BRUNO'S PIZZA 

~lafa 
iff ~ 
~ 

Registration to be an Extra in the movie ''Rudy'' to be filmed at Notre Dame this Fall! 
Where: Stepan Center • Notre Dame When: Sat., Oct. lOth • 9 a.m. --5 p.m. Bring: a Pen, a Color Snapshot, Bring Friend~! 
For more info. Call 239--8877 
Made from scratch Italian Pizza and Pasta 
Call for Reservations 288-3320 
type of games IS that everyone gets to play," said the third-year coach. "The kids that usually don't get time played well. 
"It is good for the players who go to practice every day and work as hard as the starters to get some playing time." 
The Irish face Cincinnati on Friday at Alumni Field, the seventh game in an eight game homestand. 
"'THUNDERHEART' HAS ALL THE POWER, BEAUTY AND PASSION OF AMODERN DAY 'DANCES WITH WOLVES~" 
-jim Whaley, CINEMA SHOWCASE 
Notre Dame Communication & Theatre 
Cinema at the Snlte 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:15 , 9:45 
-
.. 
.. 

_j 
r--------~--------------~---~------~----­
-

Branstetter paces SMC volleyball 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON Sports Writer 
Every team has one. The kind of player who silently leads the team, both through talent and a positive attitude, yet receives little recognition. 
Junior Kim Branstetter is that player for the Saint Mary's vol­leyball team. 
She has stepped up as a ma­jor force in helping the Belles to a 13-8 record at the midway point of the season. 
According to coach Julie Schroeder-Biek, Branstetter is a very valuable player. 
"I don't know if she knows how valuable she is," she stated. 
Schroeder-Biek described Branstetter as a good all­around player. 
"Kim is a steady force on the offense, but defense is definitely her best contribution. We can 
Courtesy of Saint Mary's Sports Information Saint Mary's junior Kim Branstetter heads a talented SMC volleyball team as they seek a postseason bid in the final games of the season. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

always count on her for the dig," she said, "She was not nationally ranked on this re­port, but she will be on the next." 
Although her passing has al­ways been good, Schroeder­Biek noted that it continues to get better, as does her defense. 
Serving is another one of Branstetter's strengths. She has been called upon as first server each game and has been very consistent in winning points for the Belles. This is essential in getting the team into the game. 
Kim also contributes through her attitude. By being up for every game, she spreads en­thusiasm throughout the team. 
"I try to be someone that ev­eryone can depend on to keep them up and excited," She said. 
Team success has always been her primary focus. 
"It is not one person that makes the difference, but all six, " She pointed out, "When we win, everyone deserves recognition. We win as a team and lose as a team." 
Branstetter, as well as the 
rest of the team will have to perform at top level for the re­mainder of the season if they are to receive a national bid. According to Branstetter, they must play well every game. 
"We can't give up any games, we must be undefeated for the remainder of the season," she said, "It is important that we have good stats." 
Statistically, the Belles are performing at a national level. On the latest report, the Belles were ranked second in hitting percentage (.310), ninth in kills per game (12.12), and fourth in digs per game (22.44). 
Schroeder-Biek feels that the possibility of a bid is there, but time is running out quickly. 
This weekend will prove to be crucial in determining post­season play as the Belles play host to Illinois Benedictine Col­lege and Kalamazoo College, both of whom participated in the national tournament last season. 
Schroeder-Biek hopes that the Belles will be able to improve on earlier tournament play this weekend. 
"We have performed well in tournaments this year, but we haven't been able to pull them out like we should have," she said. 
The Belles lost in the semi-fi­nals at their Kalamazoo tour­nament earlier this season after obtaining a number one seed. 
The opposite was true of their Baldwin-Wallace tournament, where they got off to a slow start and then finished well. 
The Belles hope to enter this weekend on a winning note as they play host to the Britons of Albion College tonight. 
The two met this weekend at the Wheaton College tourna­ment. Although the Belles fin­ished a disappointing seventh, they were able to easily hold off the Brits 15-5, 15-5. 

NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM Irish Volleyball presents the Golden Dome Invitational 
Friday: Notre Dame vs Florida State 8:00pm* Saturday: Notre Dame vs Pittsburgh 1:00pm* Notre Dame vs #3 Long Beach St. 8:00pm* 

·@ Free demonstration clinic by Olympic ' Volleyball tear.; member Tammy Iiley aJ 6:00pm in the Pit 
'Oj[__~ ,....
....., 

Irish Women's Soccer vs Cincinnati ~5/ Friday 7:30pm ~~~,F: Alumni Field '9_ -.c;,...~ ...-­Free Admission -ze: 
* Free admsission with Blue and Gold Card Free rickets available aJ all Marathon Service Stations 

6:§J o0 

FLoWERs AND MoRE BY JAcKIE
·~QJ ~,:YO~ 

i/'~~~o (!)c;:.o' Open 
674-9903
l-."'\) ;s ~ Jam
"(J o..J 

Campus Delivery Available
'? with 

Don't Forget About Your SYR Date:
Quick Change 
One Dozen Carnations in a Box, $TJ5
Every Sun. 8-midnt. 
GR.ll.DU.ll.TE STUDENT RETRE.ll.T 
SATURDAY. October 31 SUNDAY, November 1 
1:00 p.m. 1:00 p.m. 
A time of silence and reflection. prayer companionship and conversation focused on biblical texts. 
Place: Lindenwood Retreat Center at Ancilla Domini College, Donaldson, Indiana, 45 miles south of Notre Dame. 
Coal: $15 lor the 24 hours, Including 3 meals. 
CJlLL BEFO!U: OCTOBER BREAK FOR INQUIRIES AND TO RESERVE A PLACE 
Contact Fr. John Gerber, C.S.C.. Fischer Graduate Residences 239-8606 or Sharon at the Campus Ministry Office. Fischer Community Center 239-8607. 
Participants will be invited to share in tho planning of the retreat il they c:are to do so. 
.. 
Today 
Thursday, October 8, 1992 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

BILL WATIERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
CM. ~OT\1\NG. I Wf:..S JIJSI '(OIJ'R£ OLO ENOIJGI\ TO SIJ'( 11\lN~lNG, Mf:..~SE, It 't<JIJ \l.M> FIREARtl\5 1\t-lO 11-\E TIM£, '(OJ AND I CCIJLD D.I>LOS\'J£'5, 
R\Gl-\1:> \lRO}ECT. 1()\J ~C)W, ..IIJS\ \1-\E TWO OF VS. 
IX> f>.. !=1\11-\t.R-'SON KlNO Of 


Years later, Harold Zimmerman, the original "Hookhand" of campfire ghost stories, tells his grandchildren the Tale of the Two Evil Teen-agers. 
ACROSS 27 It was tackled in 59 Rest-less Kiev Mit's tackled in 
1 Snakes or 35 Privy to the U.S.A. •scarves 36 Water of Vichy &7Shabby5 Going fare 37 Spin the same &a Musical9 "What's in yarn miscellany
-?" 
38 No-no &9 Heavy metal 14Yen 40 French Mrs. 70Mr. Frome 15 Where a 42 Drive back 71 Proximateserpent enticed 43 Turns away 72 Horse chow 1& Place for a from 

name tag 45 Do something 
11 It's tackled in DOWN
47 Middle: Comb. 

Ulm form 1 Moped, e.g. 
20 Parade time 48 They do 'em in 2 River in Norway 21 Actress Nice 
3The-,

Zetterling 51 Concern for American22-precedent Hershiser 
bridge team 23 Article for 52 Monogram for 
4 Open-and-­

Einstein our 18th Pres. case 
25"But-on 53 Steinbeck siren 5Dosome forever": 57 Heady pub editingTennyson serving &Fuss 
7Timefor a senator or 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE student a Involve 9-carte 
B::-t:~~ 10 Hentoff and 31 Articles 49 Place for 46 sa Agatha Turner 
Down contemporary32 Brave's shelter 
lilt:=:T:+b.....-11 Part of a church so Northern home 60 Mary's "South 
33Theyhave12 Do lunch, e.g. 

Pacific" C'o-star 13 Fitzgerald runners 53 Farm unit &1 Pound, the poet 
34"You're­54 Army kid, 
18 Snorer's letters perhaps &21t can thickenNeed," old song 

!-:-:+:~~ 19 Difficulty 35 Type like this: 55 "Our Gang" 63 Desires
24 Linguist 

Abbr. author as Opposite of ant. ~~-~~~ Chomsky 39 Sooner State sa Film dog &&Fort-, N.J.
~ 2& Seas or sees native
r:+.=+:::+="'E+.~ lead-in t:t:+.=~+=-1~:::1 27 Rogue 41 Curtain color 

Get answers to any three clues 
~-'-=+~~ 28 Togae 44 It can be in the 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420·
f-::-t:::-+=:..t=i 29 Poetic "vast" wind 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
L;;;..,L.;:::;...L.:=;.J..=.J 30 Singer Yma 46Souse 

•
• 

Thursday: Friday & Saturday: 
Join Michael Douglas and The Hand that Rocks the Cradle Charlie Sheen on the corrupted is a suspenseful thriller that is sure to streets of New York in the exciting keep you on the edge of your seat. 
film Wall Street, showing @ 8:00 Showing @ 8:00 and 10:30 in Cushing and 10:30 in Cushing Auditorium. Auditorium. • 

page 20 
Thursday, October 8, 1992+ 
GEORGE 


Great Night for Notre Dame soccer
DOHRMANN 

Women crush 
The Jock Strip 

visiting Loyola 
t---------------1 By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Strain on Lou mounts as losses multiply 
I noticed something different about 
my parents when they departed last 
Sunday from their Parent's Weekend 
experience. 
Gone were the Notre Dame 
sweatshirts, hats, golf balls, etc. which 
normally filled my parents arms and 
suitcases, replaced by something which 
I now find a little scary: Lou Holtz 
paraphernalia. 
Lou rags, Lou masks, and The Shirt featuring our esteemed coach, were the souvenirs of choice last weekend. Everywhere I turn the name or face of Notre Dame's coach is plastered to some wall or promoting something, and it is affecting my sanity. 
I can no longer bow to the coach at the end of the third quarter or after he makes a great call. When I drive by Bridget's, I have to look the other way to avoid seeing the "We Love Lou" sign pasted atop the front door. In fact, I can't even call my aunt Louise anymore because of the spelling of her name. 
I see a vision of Holtz in everything. I have difficulty watching The Simpsons because I think Mr. Burns is Lou. Every time I see Ross Perot I think he's going to start discussing the inconsistency of the Irish defense. 
The reason Holtz has encompassed all of my thoughts is that I am scared. I am scared that Notre Dame will be without its esteemed coach in the near future. 
None of us can imagine the pressure Holtz is under, and it can't help the cause when the fans and students of Notre Dame treat him like a God. After 10,000 students bow to you at the start of the fourth quarter, how can a coach live with himself after making a mistake. 
Throw on top of that the countless charities and causes and now the wave of Lou-like products and it may be too much of Lou for Notre Dame's coach to handle. 
Each year it seems like there is a new rumor about Holtz leaving Notre Dame. In the past, those rumors have mostly centered around open pro jobs, but now those rumors may whisper another possibility, retirement. 
After only five games, Holtz has been blitzed with more questions concerning his decision-making than in the six previous seasons. The Lou masks won't show it, but there is a hint of stress showing on Holtz these days, and it could have a frightening result. 
Holtz spends most of his time in the off-season playing golf and lying under the sun in Florida. He has said he will one day retire there, a day which could be sooner than thought. 
His love for football and for coaching has been evident in past years, but not this year. The typical sayings like, "Life goes on," and "You have to overcome adversity," are still there, but the emotion behind the words isn't. 
I listened as the students and fans chastised Holtz for his decisions in the loss to Stanford. The truth is that a 
see LOU/page 14 
._iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
INSIDE SPORTS 


Sports Writer 

Notre Dame women's 
soccer coach Chris Petrucelli 
thought last night's game 
against Loyola would be an 
easy one, and he was right. 
The 15th-ranked Irish 
scored eleven goals, and held 
the Ramblers· to only one 
shot, raising their record to 
6-4-1. 

The scorers sheet looked like a novel, with all but one of Notre Dame's players seeing action, and seven different names in the scoring column. 
Freshman Michelle McCarthy started the scoring, turning a perfect pass from Jodi Hartwig into a 1-0 Notre Dame advantage. McCarthy didn't stop there, the forward scored the next two Irish goals, completing her hat trick. 
Fellow freshman Rosella Guerrero followed McCarthy's lead, raising the score to 4-0 after beating Loyola goalie Karen Butler. Guerrero's goal was followed by scoring shots from Gennifer Kwiatkowski and Stephanie Porter to heighten the halftime score to 6-0. 
The Notre Dame defense didn't have much to fend off in the first half. The Rambler's ·got their only shot of the game late in the opening period, forcing Irish goalie Kim Gold to make the only save of the game. 
The second half was more of the same. Margaret Jarc, Robin Mego, Tasha Strawbridge and Tania Macioce all put shots in the net. The Irish ball movement and speed was too much for the Rambler defense to handle. 
The best example came at the 68:24 mark in the game, when Mego weaved through 
The Observer/Macy Haeckel 
five defenders to score an 
Sophomore Chris Dean, shown here against Dayton, started all 20 see WOMEN/page 17 games for the Irish last year and is a leading defender this season. 
r:.W=-:-:-----:---:---...,...--,-,--------. notes Eiler. · omen's lnterhall wrapup At the time Eiler's brother was 
Men scrape by Detroit-Mercy 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team has been on luck's bad side for most of the 1992 season, and early in Wednes­day's 2-1 win over Detroit. it looked like they might stay there. 
The Titans took the lead at the 31:30 mark when senior Kevin Messing put a shot past Irish goalkeeper Bert Bader. 
Soon after Detroit jumped ahead, freshman Bill Lanza had two golden scoring opportunities taken away. Twice he broke away from the confusion in front of the net and sent shots toward an empty goal. And twice a ·Detroit defender sent the shots the other way as they 
neared the goal line.  
But  Notre  Dame's  luck  
would change.  
It was Lanza again,  on a  

play similar to his two missed chances, and this time he was able to put the ball in the back of the net at the 41 :07 mark. 
Sophomore Keith Carlson bounced a header past Detroit goalkeeper Jason Wood less than two minutes later to give the Irish a 2-1 lead. 
"I think things are starting to come together," Notre Dame coach Mike Berticelli said. "We played much better around the net and the defense also played better." 
Although all the scoring was done in the first half. the second half was not without excitement. 
Wood made some dazzling saves to keep Detroit in the game, and as time wound down those saves looked very important. 
In the final minutes, the Ti­tans had three good scoring opportunities. One went off the post. one went wide, and one went through Bader's 
see MEN/page 14 

Eiler quietly leads Saint Mary's volleyball quest 
By MOYA SOMERSET 
Sports Writer 

After playing on the boy's high school soccer team in Festus, Missouri, Mandy Eiler knew that she wanted a college with a girl's soccer team. 
"I played all through high school. The teams varied. I played for one year on the Sain Pius boy's soccer team, the Coca-Cola Select team and other teams," attests Eiler. 
Eiler's athletic ability is not just confined to the soccer field, as she was also on the basketball, cross-country and softball teams in high school. But when she was considering Saint Mary's, she decided to stick with her favorite sport. 
However, soccer was not Saint Mary's only selling point for Eiler. "I went to a couple of classes and loved the school. One of the classes was an accounting class. Accounting is now my major," is getting used to her new role on the soccer team. "I was a little un­comfortable at first because I am not used to playing my new postition. I have played midfield my entire life and now I am playing stopper. Stopper is pretty much all defense," notes Eiler. 
Working with a new position and playing with a new group of players is the most challenging aspect of a position change for Eiler. 
"I have gotten used to it and I like the position now. I know what I am suppose to do and I am a lot more comfortable with this position," says Eiler, "I know the other defenders and how they play. We all cover for each other. I think we all work together really well. It just took a little bit of time to get used to." 
Despite her defensive sterling play this season, Eiler prefers having the spotlight on the team. "For the past two games we haven't done too well but we are still getting used to each other. I think that we have the potential to do very well. It is just the little things that we have to 
SAINT MARY'S COUEGE SOCCER Remaining Schedule 

Sat. 10/10 at Wooster College 3:00pm Sun. 10/11 at Denison Unlv. 12:00pm Thu 10/15 Trinity College 4:00pm Sun 10/25 Rockford College 1:00pm Wed. 10/28 at DePauw Unlv. 3:00pm 
"She works really hard. Once she gets in the game Mandy knows what to do and where to go with the ball. She is a solid dependable player," agrees forward Maura Sullivan. 
"What I try to contribute to the team is encouragement. I know that everybody out there is trying and people make mistakes," says Eiler, noting here propensity for boosting the team's morale, "I always try to say things like, 'good·try' and 'you'll get it next time'. 
see page 17 

attending Notre Dame. "My parents work on," says Eiler. just try to be really positive. I know that loved the idea that we were together. Saint Mary's head coach Tom VanMeter some players really get down. I try to 
The overall experience sold me," Eiler is pleased with Eiler's game. "Mandy keep everyone positive." reminisces. has played great this year. She has made Her good attitude alleviate.s tension 
•Paterno readies Lions 
see page 16 

This season marks a new beginning for remarkable improvement since last year. among the Belles. Eiler, as she has switched from Every time she gets out there, she "I get picked on a lot. I am an easy 
•Men's golf 2nd in MCC's 

midfielder over to stopper where she will continues to improve. Mandy is very target. I never get mad so it doesn't virtually abandon her previous offensive much a part of the team," notes bother me. I guess I make a good scape responsibilities. Despite the switch, she VanMeter. see SMC/page 15 
see page 14 






