---------~----­


-Q&·
e Observer ~~ 
Sa;ntMare,Cd§ 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA. 

VOL. XXIV NO. 94 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1992 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S ~" -~ _ 
Professors debate effect of research on students 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI 
News Writer 
Recent concern over Notre Dame's emphasis on faculty re­search over undergraduate ed­ucation was debated last night in a panel discussion between faculty members. 
The discussion came on the heels of the Student Govern­ment's 61-page report to the Board of Trustees last Thurs­day. According to Karen Stohr, chair of the committee involved in researching the issue, the committee attempted to present to the board the students' expe­riences as Notre Dame under graduates. 

Hard at work 
Stohr added that results of the research showed students were concerned with the availability of professors, class sizes and interaction with the professors. 
The student government re­port also noted that University President Father Edward Mal­loy claimed 77 percent of the University's operating budget comes from tuition, room and board. "These are costs in­curred almost solely by under­graduates. Do the undergradu­ates receive 77 percent of their professor's time? Rarely," the report says. 
According to Stohr, under­graduate education will suffer as further emphasis is placed on research. "And after all," she adds, "it is the students who are the core of the university." 


David O'Connor, associate professor of philosophy and panel member, disagreed. "The students aren't the core of the university, the faculty is," he said. He added that the purpose of the university should be to foster a learning atmosphere. "The focus should be on letting intellectuals live intellectual lives." 
According to O'Connor, faculty members who are excited about their disciplines and who are doing research so they can further stimulate their students are necessary in realizing this 
The Observer/Pat McHugh 

Farley senior Jennifer Yost helps eight year old Curtis Carter, of South Bend, with his writing homework. 
focus. can have a research university 
Panel member Morton Fuchs, and still be a great undergrad­chairman and professor of bio­uate institution," said Nichols. logical sciences, agreed with "We have to avoid polariza­Stohr's report that the answer tion of the problem," said to the problem is to hire more Scully, "this is not black and faculty members. "I don't think white, win or lose." there is anyone who wants to Instead, Scully proposed shortchange undergraduates," establishing priorities and en­Fuchs said, "but to be competi­couraging creativity in solving tive in hiring with other univer­the problem. For instance, sities, we have to offer the op­Scully cited instances of stu­portunity for research." dent/professor interaction in 
Father Timothy Scully, assis­research. tant professor of government, All four professors unani­and William Nichols, professor mously agreed that research is of accountancy, both agreed essential to any institution of that the concepts of research learning. "We cannot be a and undergraduate study are 
see RESEARCH I page 4 

not mutually exclusive. "You 

Bushlaunches'92run for the Presidency 
WASHINGTON (AP) 
President Bush today formally 
launched his re-election cam­
paign, telling a cheering crowd, 
"I want to continue serving as 
your president four more ·years." 
"From this moment on I am a 
candidate for president of the 
United States, officially," Bush 
said. 

Today's announcement was 
hardly a surprise. Bush already 
has raised $11 million for his 
re-election drive and is on the 
ballot in 26 states. He enters 
the race with diminished popu­
larity in polls amid widespread 
anxiety about the economy. 
Bush and Vice President Dan 
Quayle launched their cam­
paign at a Lincoln's birthday 
rally at a downtown hotel be­
fore 1,000 of their most loyal 
supporters. The audience 
cheered them with calls of 
"four more years." 
Later, the president was fly­
ing to Manchester, N.H., for a 
day of campaigning before its 
leadoff primary next Tuesday. 
Bush was introduced by his 
wife, Barbara, who presented 
him as "the person I love and 
respect most in the world: the 
next president of the United 
States." 
"We're gathered here 
because the American people 
wanted leadership and we 
answered the call," Bush told 
the gathering. 
"And we didn't do the easy things. We did the right things," he said. 
"From day one, I fought for strong and effective national defense, I stuck to my princi­ples and we kept strong and we won the Cold War." 
Bush took a veiled swipe at his conservative challenger, commentator Patrick Buchanan, who is running his GOP campaign on a theme of "America First." 
"The American people do not believe in isolationism because they believe in themselves," Bush said. "We Americans do not hide from a good test of our ability. We rise to the challenge. Our national bird is the eagle, not the ostrich." 
"Let's not kid ourselves," the president said. "We're in a tough fight. I don't seek unnec­essary conflict but when princi­ple is at stake I fight to win.... Together we will win, I am cer­tain of that." 
"I came here to do important work, and I finish what I start," Bush declared. 
In a broadside at the Democratic-controlled Congress, Bush vowed, "This year we say 'No more' to those who want to obstruct progress. We say get moving or get out of the way. We've got an agenda." 
The crowd erupted again into chants of "four more years." "We've got an agenda," Bush 
see BUSH I page 3 


Fire at ND Apartments forces 16 to evacuate 
By ANDREW RUNKLE The fire was caused by an News Writer unattended pan on the stove. One of the tenants was cooking 
A fire at the Notre Dame fries when he fell asleep, ac­Apartments Wednesday morn­cording to Prawat. ing resulted in $55,000 in dam­Other tenants tried to extin­
age and the evacuation of 16 guish the fire to no avail. "Most tenants from the building, ac­tenants went out on patios to cording to Bert Prawat, chief of avoid the smoke," said Prawat. fire prevention. 
The South Bend Fire The 16 evacuees were taken Department was called to the to shelter to avoid the cold. No scene of the fire, 820 N. Notre injuries resulted from the blaze, Dame Ave., at 4:39 a.m. The and the only tenants to be dis­
fire began in Apartment C-1, placed were Franklin and which was occupied by the cur­Gargania, Prawat added. rent tenants Tony Franklin and Fred Gargania, according to The damage to the building 
Prawat. was $50,000, plus $5,000 dam-
GSU discusses child care, rape 
By JULIE BARRETT 
News Writer 
The Graduate Student Union (GSU) discussed the status of its child care proposal to the Board of Trustees and NO Security's policies and procedures concerning acquaintance rape at a council meeting last night. 
According to GSU Quality of Life Chair Rita Francis, the Board of Trustees reacted posi­tively to the group's child care proposal and offered their sup­port for the recommendations made to expand day care ser­vices on campus for the chil­dren of faculty and grad stu­dents. However, Francis said the trustees felt the GSU committee should go through "administrative channels" to get the proposal passed. 

"The bottom line is that the trustees were surprised that (the GSU) brought this issue to them, because they thought it was an issue to be dealt with by the Administration," Francis said. 
The committee is presenting another report on child care needs to the Faculty Senate and the "Give Kids A Chance" Coali­tion on March 18. Input from graduate students regarding the issue is welcome and should be directed to Francis as early as possible. 
Director of NO Security Rex Rakow attended the meeting to clear up any confusion GSU members had about NO Secu­rity's policies and procedures regarding acquaintance rape. 
Questions and concerns were raised by members about dif­ferentiations made by Security between attack rape and ac­quaintance rape, and sexual at­tack victims' rights to confiden­tiality concerning such crimes. 
According to Rakow, the cur­rent guideline Security follows is to make a public statement only about attack rape because it poses "an immediate threat to the public." 
Rakow admitted that greater 
see GSU I page 4 


page 2 Thursday, February 13, 1992
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 
her input on renovations badly needed 

Although the proposed 
renovation of the Church 
of Loretto at Saint Mary's 
College has apparently 
only received support 
from members of the 
Renovation Committee, 
the parties involved 
intend to continue with 
the deflowering as 
scheduled. 
The proposed renovation raises a number of questions. First, if the committee did not think that the students would care about the renovation. as Sister Mary Turgi, chairwoman of the Renovation Committee, has stated (Observer, Feb. 11, 1992) then they must surely have discussed student reaction to the changes. Yet as the current situation indicates, the committee decided that the students do not matter. 
This is strange, especially at an all-women's college with a widely-publicized problem of declining enrollment. At a time when students are losing interest in attending Saint Mary's, to snub the current student body-as well as the vast majority of the Sisters of the Holy Cross-is institutional suicide. 
Secondly, members of the committee have stated that the changes are necessary to correct the "theatrical" atmosphere of the church. The plans call for moving the pews into a circle so that churchgoers focus on the fact that they are a worshipping community. 
This is odd, since what they are supposedly worshipping (i.e. God and specifically the Eucharist) are being pushed out of the picture. It seems that the focus of placing the pews into a circle is to achieve a sort of self-worship. The focus of the liturgy becomes egocentric, with churchgoers contemplating each other, those who were so good as to come to church. 
The issue of removal of the "painted" glass supports the egocentrism hypothesis, for the stained glass windows depict Mary at various stages in her life. 
The stained glass windows are remnants of the original church built in 1885. They are di­dactic, aesthetically elegant windows which inspire prayer and reflection in addition to keeping the wind out. Yet they are to be replaced with clear glass. 
The comments made by Turgi and others clearly indicate that the committee and certain elements of the Sisters of the Holy Cross are pursuing private political agendas. As an IUSB art professor has noted (Observer, Dec. 3, 1991). the renovations would constitute a destruction of art. 
Worst of all, Turgi and other related nuns may be pursuing their agenda by· intimidation, as several older members of the Sisters of the Holy Cross would only speak under condition of anonymity. 
Write or call Sister Mary Turgi or Sister Mary Ellen Vaughan. Write to Mr. Publicity himself-Bill Hickey, president of Saint Mary's College-and let him know your feelings. Although the college reportedly does not own the church, the students at the college are visibly angered by Turgi's plans. The nuns, who have reportedly short-circuited attempts by the college to improve security, will look very suspect indeed if they again snub the college. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



Business: David Kinney 
News: 
Colleen Gannon Andy Runkle

Becky Barnes Cheryl Moser Illustrations:
Sports: Jake Frost 
Mike Scrudato Steve Duenas 
VIewpoint: 
Systems: Matt Helminiak 
Jake Peters 
Production:

Accent: Janelle Harrigan 
Kristin Costello Cheryl Moser 
Cheryl Moser 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
-tr····· 
= ·::::..: 
Possible flurries today variable cloudiness. High 
temperature will be 38, low 31. 
TEMPERATURES: 
H L 
··•••·•• City
•:••••• Amsterdam 43 34 
56 41 
64 38 
27 17
!ll!il!il 
!~~II 
45 39 
•.. ··•· Chicago 36 26 
· ·. Fargo 25 13 Fairbanks 12 0 Grea! Falls 39 24 Honolulu 76 60 Houston 73 56 Johannesburg 90 64 Kansas City 47 33 London 45 37 Los Angelel 60 52 Miami Beach 69 56 Mpla-St. Paul 31 22 
.· .· New York 36 32 
••.••••• Paris 411 37 
() San Diego 65 56 
38 31

[f:r-~--------------------------------,.,...,. Soulhllend 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
INTERNATIONAL 
Blast hits house of U.S. envoy

•LIMA. PERU -Two police officers were killed and the 
U.S. ambassador's residence damaged in one of seven bombings to strike a capital where security was tight in anticipation of an "armed strike" by leftist rebels. Two other police officers were seriously injured in the Tuesday night blast outside Ambassador Anthony Quainton's residence. Later, at least five banks and a movie theater were bombed, slightly injuring several people, police said. Neither the Shining Path nor Peru's other leftist guerilla group, the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement, claimed responsibility. 
NATIONAL 
Afllrmative action linked to hate mail 

• ALBUQUERQUE. N.M. -Death threats aimed at minority teachers and students have popped up on computers at Albuquerque Academy . an exclusive prep school that was nearly all white before it began an af­firmative action drive in the mid-'80s. The computer hate mail may have resulted from a failure by the ad­ministration to to prepare the school for the new ad­missions policy, said a consultant hired last month to lead workshops against racism. 
OF INTEREST 
•The fourth clue in the Knott Hall charity medallion hunt is: "To fmd our Medallion you must turn your heart and mind to a greater concern. This clue we give, you'll want to share it. Not all treasures are 14 carat." The final clue will be published tomorrow. Whoever finds the medallion should return it to 419 Knott Hall to claim the prizes. 
IIA hospitality luncheon hosted by the Center for the Homeless will be held at the Center for Social Concerns today from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. All are welcome. 
IICommunity Service to Hispanics: Those presently participating in any form of service work for Hispanics or those interested are invited to a meeting today at 4:30 
p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. For more info, call Laura at 283-2666. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February12 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 221,450,070 228.95 it-O.Ql S&P COMPOSITE 411.23 {} 2.34 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,276.83 .. 25.26 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLDf. $ .60 to $356.80/oz. 
SILVERf. 0.3¢ to $4.473/oz. 

56 38
@}~~ 
37 30 ) Washington. D.C. 38 34 
'•'·'··:::·:·:·· 

Photo of POW labeled a fraud 
• WASHINGTON -A color photograph purportedly showing Army Maj. Donald Carr, a missing soldier from the Vietnam War, alive in a prison camp was a fraud, ABC News reported Tuesday night. ABC said that after investigation, the photo is believed to be a man now living in Germany who resembles Carr. 
CAMPUS 

E-mail courses scheduled 
• 
NOTRE DAME -Four training sessions for the campus electronic mail system have been scheduled for University of Notre Dame students by the Office of University Computing. Electronic mail is a system that allows users to transmit messages from one computer to another. The training sessions are scheduled for Thursday and Feb. 19 from 6-7:30 p.m. or 8-9:30 p.m both nights. Classes will be held in rooms G015A and G015B in the Computing Center/Math Building. Students will be required to provide a 3.5-inch floppy diskette. Class sizes will be limited and registration is first come, first serve. For more information and to register, call Gina DeMeyer at 239-5934. 

•ND/SMC 
Right to Ufe will meet tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Montgomery Room in LaFortune to discuss upcoming events for the spring. All are welcome. 

•ND/SMC 
Ballroom Dance Club will celebrate Valentine's Day tonight at Dan O'Days in Mishawaka. Meet at 7:45p.m. at the Main Circle. Dress appropriately. 


fihe Freshman Year of Studies Convocation will be held on today at 8 p.m.in the Stepan Center. 
fio campaign with Tim Roemer on President's Day, Monday, February 17. either morning or afternoon, call 239-5293 on Friday to reserve a spot. 
•Quartenmal Rounds of Iceberg Debates will be held Feb. 18 at Flanner, Alumni, Lyons and Sorin. The topic will be: Resolved that the death penalty should be 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1935: A jury in Flemington, N.J. found Bruno Richard Hauptmann guilty of first-degree murder in the kidnap-death of the infant son of aviator Charles Lindbergh. The verdict carried an automatic death sentence. 

• 
In 1633: Italian astronomer Galilee Galilei arrived in Rome for trial before the Inquisition. 

• 
In 1920: The League of Nations recognized the perpetual neutrality of Switzerland. 

• 
In 1990: The United States and its European allies forged agreement with the Soviet Union and East Germany during an "open skies" conference in Ottawa on a two-stage formula to 



lllt:IUU::;t:I!Vt:ll

Thursday, February 13, 1992 page 3 
Riley, Rock to take new positions 
By DAVID KINNEY Associate News Editor 
Rich Riley has been named business manager, and John Rock will take the position of managing editor of The Observer for the 1992-93 aca­demic year, Monica Yant, edi­tor-in-chief elect, announced Wednesday. 
Riley, who will succeed senior Gil Gomez, is a junior business 


administration major from Erie, John Rock Rich Riley Penn. He has served as design editor at The Observer since 
The business manager over­torial board to make The 

Jan. 1991. He also held the 
sees the l:iudget of the newspa­Observer even better this com­position of assistant production per and is responsible for the ing year," he said. "We're going manager between January and operations board. to work hard to provide the best May 1991. 

Rock, a sophomore from collegiate paper." 

"It was an excellent group of Sturgis, Mich., has held the po­Rock, a biology major living in applicants, and I am honored to sitions of assistant photography Morrissey Hall, a:lso intends to be selected," said Riley. "I look editor and photographer at The minor in secondary education 
forward to working with 
Observer. He will succeed in biology at Saint Mary's. 

Monica, John and the rest of current Managing Editor Lisa The job of the managing edi­next year's board, who I think, Eaton. tor includes overseeing the edi­
by the looks of the applicant 
torial board. 

pool, will provide great leader­"I look forward to working Both students will take over ship for The Observer." 
with Monica (Yant) and the edi-after mid-semester break. 

Law professor joins effort to get Buchanan elected 
By MEGAN JUNIUS Most districts began collect­
News Writer ing signatures six weeks ago. 
Because of Rice's recent ap­
pointment, Indiana's Third 
NO Law Professor Charles Congressional District began Rice has recently been ap­collecting signatures about two pointed Third Congressional weeks ago. The petitions must District coordinator of the peti­be completed by February 25, tion drive to place Pat so Rice urges all Buchanan Buchanan on the Republican supporters to act immediately. 
Presidential primary ballot, ac­The duties as coordinator o cording to Bill Ball, Indiana the petition drive do not inter­State Coordinator for fere with Rice's duties at the Buchanan's campaign. Law School, nor are they at any 
According to Rice, he has vol­expense to the University, Rice unteered to gather 500 signa­said. Rice said his involvement tures from the Third with the Buchanan Presidential Congressional District in sup­campaign will discontinue after port of Pat Buchanan's nomi­the filing of the petitions. nation to the Republican Although this position is Presidential primary ballot. Rice's first involvement with "Signatures on the petition do Indiana elections, he has not directly endorse Buchanan previously endorsed right wing in the primary. They are ap­parties. In the 1960s, he held proving Buchanan's name on the position of state vice chair the ballot," Rice said. for the New York Conservative 
"Pat Buchanan's nomination Party. Rice currently advises would allow a chance for a the Young Republican Club at healthy condition for a clashing Notre Dame. of views," he said. 
""""""""""""""""~"" 
Bush
'f You're Invited 1b Britton's 'f 
continued from page 1 
" " 
continued, "and here's what we
'f Balloons, Cards, Gifts & Antiques 'f 
will do: Together we'll get our economy up and running at full speed.
'f Edison Plaza, 1627 Edison 'f 
"We'll restore decency to the
M (Adjacent to Jamison Inn) M 
American way of life. We will T CUp this coupon and Bring it in for a 20% discount on your purchases. T 
silence the voices of hatred and M Good thru February, 1992 M gloom." 
T Featuring Recycled Paper Cards & Gifts, Blue Mountain Arts C<irds T M & Gifts Far Side & Saturday Night Live Cards & Gifts, Stuffed M T Animals, 'victorian Prints, Jewelry, and Balloon Bouquet Specials T 

An American Company
¥ 'f Convenient Easy Shopping ¥ ¥ 
Serving America.
'Jf Britton Knowles, Owner (219) 271-2001 'Jf Dick's Marathon 
"""""""""""~~"""""~ 
2046 South Bend Avenue South Bend, IN 46337 
•FREE 
MOHCHIES 

•T 
-SHIRT GIVEAWAY 

•SOHY 
DISCMAH DRAWIHG 


Sponsored by: 
273-1866 227 US 31 North South Bend, IN 

MUST BE 21 AND PRESENT TO WIN ---------·
•r--------------------------------------------­
Bring this coupon to Coach's Tonight. 
Receive a free gift. Phone:
Name: 

~------------------------------------------------------­
lln. .......... A................ IN•.......,..,•~ 
ONE F1lEE TOW TO OUR STATION POillllD'ADl 
FREE (S4s.oo) FREE 
ou ......... •u.ts +tal< ........... o....-......YWt 
'------J®L-------------------------------~ 
Roses are Red, Elephants are Gray, Today Missy turns 21 0-0-0-0-kay! 
Love, Pat, Nancy, Clarisa, Becky, )en & Kathy 
OBCJAPAN 
OBC English Conversation School is offering full time teaching positions beginning in July 1992. Excellent working conditions, benefits, and salary Open to ALL majors. Career and Placement Services February 24, 25, 26 

page 4 
Research 
continued from page 1 
teaching university without re­search," according to Scully, "but it is possible to be a re­search university without teaching." 
Nichols agreed: "Would I de­vote more time to teaching without research? Yes. Would I be a better teacher? No." 
The four faculty representa­tives as well as Stohr also agreed that the administration is dedicated to making im­provements in undergraduate education. According to Scully, University Provost Timothy O'Meara prefers to bring new intellectuals into the Notre Dame community. "But I think we could reallocate certain in­ternal uses of resources," he added. 
GSU 
continued from page 1 strides in research and devel­opment need to be made re­garding Security's handling of acquaintance rape crimes. The GSU Women's Resource Committee has planned a vari­ety of events regarding women's issues for the week of March 22. The film "Killing Me Softly" about women's portrayal in the media will be shown March 24. and a forum for concerned others, friends and family members of sexual assault victims, is scheduled for later in the week. More infor­mation about places and dates of these and more events will be posted. GSU President Kurt Mills announced last night that ap­plications for paid GSU officer positions are due by Feb. 21, 
"This is a time of great op­portunity," according to Ni­chols. But Stohr believes that the university's conservative spending patterns, while they have kept the university out of debt, are hindering this oppor­tunity for growth. 
O'Connor added that Notre Dame was more "free-spend­ing" in the 80s but is less so now. "We'll return to that trend, though," said O'Connor, "there is a serious commitment at the top." 
While each panelist recog­nized that the conflict between research and undergraduate education is an issue, Scully emphasized that the univer­sity's goals must be clearly identified. "We need to know what we want to become," he said. "We have to be careful that the growth of the univer­sity doesn't outpace its iden­tity... 
This ain't no disco 
Sloe Joe. 
Correction 
A photo in Wednesday's Observer incorrectly placed Dan Sheridan at WVFI instead of WSND. The show, "Taselmusik," airs from 5-7 p.m.· weekdays. The Observer regrets the error. 

Also in Wednesday's Observer, the quarterfinals for Iceberg Debates were incorrectly listed. They will be at 9 p.m. Feb. 18 i in the affirmative residence § halls. ~ 
j 
.. )~ 
HEY STUDnm!!
II··.;/$LOOK
• .•• .d
• :.-.· .....: •r· 

WHAT'S NEW! 

.,·PRICE DESTROYER. 
Ott!l••• ••
' ... 
..: Two Medium Pizzas 
with five toppings 
$8.99 
•271-0300 Notre Dame 
•289-0033 St. Mary's 
-----~--------r------------­
r ' :I TRY OUR NEW 15" 
I II LARGE CHEESE PIZZA II Five Toppings. 11I $6.99 
I And receive a free 32 oz. 
I $8 • 99 II Domino's cup. While supplies last. I Sausage. Pepper<Xll. Onions. II 15~ more pi2za, only a dollar more. I Mushrocrns & Green ""R-•· II 
(Umlllld l'lxtlons. No Sub&lltutions.) 1 Slu«nt ID .t Coupon Required. !'lcue I Mention Coupon When Ordenng.I Third Pizza only $4.00 morel II otrw • .,a.I-zt.t99l.Yu;.~o,,_.;.;­
I 1 II ,.......,.....,.llot..tid willa..., -•··
Um!Mdllrne oller.
I Not valWS wllh UIJ ~ o«-. I · Ullliled cWi._,. ._u...ua ule .m.,.
u..;_.-,...10 ...... ..c._--.. I . c-.,.,....-.....-_.,ahlo. o...
I II c~,.,. ........bcnc•ppb:•~o... I . . • ...ao ...,_ti.acl.r••a~~~·.._.,..., -...--...lizedf•la~adc!J........ -----­
and the election date for those positions is March 18. Ap­pointed positions open are GSU president. executive vice presi­dent, vice president for Admin­istration. secretary, social offi­cer and information officer. 
Applications for these offices should include names, phone numbers and on-campus ad­dresses of candidates and should be sent to the Elections Committee, Graduate Student Union in 220 LaFortune. 
Nominations for the Graduate School Award are due by March 
20. This annual award is given to a faculty member for distinc­tion in graduate teaching or other exemplary contributions to graduate education. Ques­tions and nominations should be addressed to Nathan Hatch, vice president of the graduate school in room 312 of the Main Building. 
Travel Grant Applications are due this Friday. 
r-------------.~ 
11
I PAN-TASTIC! 
I 11
I Medium 12" 1
1
1 !-Topping Pizza 11 
: $5.99 I : 
I Choice of Crust: Pan or Original I 1 
lllt::VU:St::JVt::J 

Thursday, February 13, 1992 
Sophomores Courtney McGovern, Molly Crowe, Beth Howells, Jemma ~aar and Kirsten Kear~e (left to right) use an unusual instrument to create a unique sound as they wnte a new song for the1r band 
p;~;eli;e~;~}tt 
Super Saver prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuff1ng, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 
(219)277-1291

51400 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 Phone answered 24 hrs. 
i 

ii 
Why settle for apa!tY
when you can have aball. 
The 6" Meatball Sub Only 
~S1.69
_,. 

~------~-------~~~~~~~~~-----­
_ 
I
1 
1 1I 
1 1 I 
I 
I I I 
I

1 Student lD cl: Coupon P.eouired. Please I I Sl.udent lD ~ eo.,-R"ffllltld. !'leve AfeniJoo I Mention Coupon Wh. •, Ordcnng. I I eo.p. W... Orderillf. 1 I 
I . . 1 O..o.....-11,1992. Yoliolatponici· I 
Ofi"'"'"P"""IW> '.1992.YolodoLponoa· I II ....._..,,Not•aliolwidomy-o!fn
I pali.aaa~oaly ••lYaladwathany~alfa.l • ......_.....,..._ -.u....redrivia• 1
10

L.illlik>d dd1wry uta lO eot~ ufc drivma. c--,.,. ... ••..-.qplicaYc. Our : ~111 ;!U]il!l : 
J CwtDGICI'pap..UC.t.aawbcrca~a~c.Our 1 :. -...--~f•lmdeliwriaL 1
II 
• dri.,...~DOtpculiudforlatedd;YCneL J._ -----~-----_ 
~---------------­
1 
WE NOW HONOR I 

ALL I I $1.00 OFF I 
1 

I $1.00 off any regular footlong I COMPETITOR'S I sandwich. Limit five footlong I
I 

sandwiches per order. I
I
COUPONS : 

Not volid with any-diocount • Ofter good Ill I 
. . I I 1111 participating locoDons. • Eocpireo 2i2IW2 
1 
$1.99 SPECIAL I 
Buy one regular footlong and large I Coca-Cola at regular price, get a I second regular footlong of equal or I 
lesser value or only $1.99. n....o.~ ~ ~ inc:lu....~. I 
uuuu,. "-·~ """ Not valid with .,y other diooounl. • OHer good at I al participating loadions. • Expir• 212&'92 
I 
~11F!illtri : 


~----------------------~ 
.-----------~ ~---­
1 hursday, t-ebruary 13, 1992 1ne uoserver 
Bush to respond to ozone crisis 
WASHINGTON (AP) 
demands that it phase out CFCs President Bush, in an election­ahead of the 2000 target agreed year environmental turnabout, upon in an international treaty will speed up the elimination of called the Montreal Protocol. industrial chemicals that are However, Bush on Tuesday depleting the Earth's protective called on other nations to follow ozone layer. his lead on the speedup. 
Bush said Tuesday he will Sen. AI Gore, D-Tenn., author order U.S. makers of ozone-de­of a Senate amendment that pleting chemicals, mainly chlo­last week passed by a 96-0 vote rofluorocarbons (CFCs), to stop and called for a faster phase­production by the end of 1995, out, said Bush's decision was with a few exceptions. That welcome, "but still inadequate." would be five years ahead of a He said-Bush waited too long to
George Bush 

timetable that has been laid out act. in an international treaty. 
Bush's action followed the icals come from releases of "It took an ozone hold over release last week of a new halons and industrial CFCs, Kennebunkport to get his at­study showing the ozone layer which are commonly used in re­tention, but he is fmally recog­was being depleted much more frigerants, foam manufacturing nizing an urgent problem that rapidly that had been believed. and cleaning agents. needs immediate response," The National Aeronautics and Ozone in the upper atmo­Gore said. Space Administration report sphere helps shield the Earth cited "alarming" levels of from destructive ultraviolet ra­The White House announce­ozone-destroying chemicals diation. Scientists fear an in­ment -on the eve of Bush's over Canada, Europe and New crease in skin cancers and formal declaration of candidacy England, including other health problems if the for re-election -brought Kennebunkport, Maine, where ozone layer is depleted. approving notices from envi­Bush vacations. The administration previously ronmentalists. But they 
Most of the destructive chem-had resisted environmentalists' pressed for even swifter action. 


E 
NOTRE DAME 
TONIGHT! 
featuring the music of Willie Porter as well as several ND student groups 
9:00p.m. -midnight basement lounge of LaFortune 
OPEN MICROPHONE-ALL ARE INVITED TO PERFORM 


AT THE RONKIN EDUCATIONAL GROUP OUR CLASS SIZES ARE LIMITED TO NO MORE THAN 1 0 STUDENTS PER CLASS. 
SIGN UP NOW FOR PREPARATION COURSE FOR SUMMER ISAT 
This example of personalized attention IS JUSt one of the reasons our classes are filling up fast. Call now to reserve a seat. 
• 
40 Hours Of Live Instruction 

• 
Live Thtorial Available At No Extra Charge 



L G 
• National BOO Telephone Helpline 
273-1866
• 6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams 
227 US 31 North
• Constantly Updated Materials 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 

---~---------
Gadomski, a meteo­rologist at the Penn State Weather Communications Group, a part of Penn State University. "Such a period of below-normal snow is not un­
~uliWl:<m~LD'" precedented." Between the mid-5os and late 7os. · 
ORDER EARLY AND WIN A GIANT TEDDY BFAR FOR THAT 
SPECIAL SOMEONE 
Remember Your Valentine! 
TUXEDO DEUVERY WITH AU. ORDERS 
SEND THE BIGGEST AND BEST­EVERLASTING LOVE ... $35.99 
A HUGE 6 FOOT BOUQUET WITII SEVEN JUMBO BAllOONS ATTACHED TO A CUDDLY BEAR 
10 OTHER SPECIAL DELIVERIES AVAILABLE 
BALLOON WORKS 
234-1431 
Ih~Obse&Ver 
Applications are now being accepted for the following paid positions: Illustrations Director Graphics Director 
•Applicants 
for Illustration Director should have strong drawing skills and editorial experience. 

•Applicants 
for Graphics Director should be creative and familiar with Macintosh MacDraw. 

•All 
applicants must have good management skills. 


To apply, submit a one page personal statement, resume, and 3 examples of past work to John Rock by 5 p.m. Tuesday, Feb. 18. 
For further job descriptions, call The Observer, 239-5303 
Business 
page 6 Thursday, February 13, 1992 
Current Economic Issues 
Prof. Denis Goulet 
NO Economics Dept. 

What kind of development? 
Between 1969 and 197 4 Brazil's GOP (Gross 
Domestic Product) increased by 11 percent per 
year, a spectacular rate of growth. Garrastazu 
Medici, president at the time, was asked by a 
journalist what he thought of the "Brazilian 
miracle". He replied, "It's good for the econ­
omy, but bad for the people." 
Indeed, growth had been won at the cost of 
severe political repression, massive unemploy­
ment, and a declining standard of living for the 
poor. As economist Celso Furtado noted, 
Brazil's economy "benefits the few while sacri­
ficing the millions." 
In many Third World countries "development" 
does precisely this: create wealth for a few and 
poverty for the many. This is why many experts 
now denounce development as its very opposite: 
anti-development. The noted French 
agronomist Rene Dumont declares that in Africa 
development has simply not occurred. 
Latin America, on the other hand, has created 
great wealth, ranging from sophisticated nu­
clear industries to skyscraper cities. But, Du­
mont laments, this growth has been won at the 
price of massive pollution, urban congestion 
and suffocating debt. Moreover, the majority of 
the continent's population has not benefited. 
The dominant model of development aims at 
maximizing industrial growth and commercial 
exports, promoting greater consumption and 
rewarding those who produce efficiently. 
All that matters is WHAT is produced, not 
HOW it is obtained. Economic growth's social, 
environmental. cultural and political costs are 
treated as unimportant. However, these 
"externalities" are what is most important. 
In 1990, the United Nations issued its first 
annual "report card" on human development in 
the world. This Human Development Report 
argues that we should not measure 
development by economic gains, but by 
qualitative improvement in people's lives. 
"The basic objective of development is to cre­ate an enabling environment for people to enjoy long, healthy and creative lives," the report ex­plains. "This may appear to be a simple truth. But it is often forgotten in the immediate con­cern with the accumulation of commodities and financial wealth ... excessive preoccupation with GNP growth and national income accounts has obscured that powerful perspective, sup­planting a focus on ends by an obsession with merely the means," states the report. 
Economic growth is not the end, but the means to a larger end, human development. 
Economists have lost touch with the real world. In his book "On Ethics and Economics", Harvard's Amartya Sen urges fellow economists to restore their discipline's link with ethical val­ues. "Economics is supposed to be concerned with real people.... It is hard to believe that the real people could be completely unaffected by the reach of self-examination induced by the Socratic question, 'How should one live?'" 
The failure of growth models has given rise to alternative development strategies based on meeting human needs, creating jobs, getting non-elite populations to participate in decisions affecting them, safeguarding cultural diversity and environmental health. 
The move is on to launch "another develop­ment" and other indicators of performance, centering on people's quality of life instead of the money value of their economy's production. And economists are finally learning to "do eco­nomics" in a different way, one that integrates theory with practice, and political and ethical logic with abstract economic rationality. 
Development demands nothing less than a new model of sustainable and equitable growth, new indicators, and a new way of doing economics. The vital question remains, in the Canadian economist David Pollock's words: "Does man live by GNP alone?" 
The views contained in this column are_.those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Seniors face worst job market in years 

By CATHY FLYNN 
Business Writer 
Notre Dame graduates face the worst job market in 30 years according to many economists. 
Fewer than 160 firms conducted campus interviews last semester, said Kitty Arnold, Director of the Career and Placement Center. However, the most severe drop occurred between 1989 and 1990 when the number of companies interviewing on campus fell from 285 to 187. 
"Even worse though, is that the companies that are interviewing on campus have fewer openings than last year," she said. Although statistics are not yet available, Arnold said she expects fewer job offers this year. 
This recession is industry-wide, said Arnold. Although some areas, such as pharmaceuticals, have not been hit as hard as others, nobody's job is secure, she said. 
"Even in the worst economic situation, however, people get hired every day,n she added. "If you have excellent qualifications and you exactly fit the qualifications of the employer, you will get a job." 
"I feel really fortunate to have a job," said senior Kim Mitchell, who 
• accepted Prudential's offer to be a financial systems representative. "The job market is really tight and it is often a matter of luck, of being in the right place at the right time." This recession is different from others in the past, because it affects management level employees too, according to Arnold. 
"There is an old joke that says: 'If 

Kitty Arnold 
you lose your job this is a recession, but if I lose mine it's a depression,'" Arnold said. "Well, now there are not only blue and pink collar workers losing their jobs, but white collar workers too. 
n 

The stress that the poor economy is putting on seniors is evident in the increase in students seeking career counseling, Arnold said. Only 752 students came for counseling in 1989 compared to 946 already this year, she said. 
''I'm discouraged at the horrendous job market," said senior Scott Brunermer, an accounting major who has had 10-15 interviews already. "I just want to get my foot in the door somewhere." 
The Career and Placement Counselors have increased their availability to students and conducted more workshops to meet the growing demand, Arnold said. 
"There are just no guarantees,'' she said. "We have to learn to live with tremendous ambiguities in our lives." 
Many students are broadening the scope of their job searches in response to the recession, Arnold said. For instance, Brunermer said that while he initially focussed on accounting jobs, he now is looking into the prospect of teaching. 
"A larger number of graduates are accepting jobs that don't require a college degree or are not in the area that they trained for," Arnold said. " I worry that more students may be giving up there hopes and dreams these days than in the past." 
Financial conditions force some graduates to take any job that they can, she said. For instance-, most student loan repayments begin six to nine months after graduation, plac­ing added pressure on some students, said Assistant Loan Officer Sue McCombs. 
Although over 98% of Notre Dame graduates repay their loans on time, McCombs said that she still worries. "It frightens me every year when I see how many students don't know how much they owe or who their loans are from,'' she said. 
The average indebtedness for Notre Dame students with Stafford loans was $8,800 in 1991, said Lisa Lanpher, loan coordinator. Average monthly payments on these loans was $105, she added. 
The Financial Aid Office will conduct "Exit Interviews" for all graduate borrowers in April. 
Until then, the scramble for jobs goes on for many seniors. "If this situation continues, I will definitely worry about my student loans," said Brunermer. "But I think things will improve ... I hope so, anyway." 

Debate rages over student loan legislation 
By ANDREW RUNKLE 
Business Writer 
In the face of Congressional 
legislation, a debate is raging in the 
collegiate financial aid community 
over the method of distributing 
student aid through loans, according 
to Joseph Russo, Notre Dame director 
of financial aid. 
The major debate is whether to implement a new direct loan program or adjust the current guaranteed student loan program. The legislation in Congress called the Income-Dependent Education Act (IDEA) program contains many components of a direct loan program. 
The new direct loan program would eliminate banks, servicers, and private billing and collection organizations from the process, Russo said. "The government would raise the capital for the program by selling bonds, n he said. 
The government would be responsible for administering the student aid, with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) collecting the repayments as part of the student's income tax. The rate of student repayment would be based on income after graduation and deducted from paychecks according to a calculated formula. 
An extension of the current legislation will expire on September 30, by which time reauthorization of the Higher Education Act of 1965 should have occurred. 
Russo supports improvement of the current guaranteed student loan program, instead of the removal of the program and the implementation of a new direct loan program. 
"I am very much in opposition to dismantling the current guaranteed student loan program and the establishment of a new direct loan program. I feel strongly that we can fix the program, which has worked so well for so many years for so many millions of individuals and so many billions of dollars, without throwing the entire thing out and starting all 


Joseph Russo 
over," Russo commented. 
Russo suggests these im­provements; a greater "concentration on the more fundamental questions of loan/grant imbalance, simplicity of delivery, and integrity." He said that, "The financial aid administrators were also in agreement that the heavy debt burden, the need for simplicity, and the need for integrity were the biggest issues. n 
The House Education and Labor Committee heard testimony last Thursday on IDEA. The IDEA pro­posal was authored by Congressman Tom Petri (R-Wisc.) by Senator Paul Simon (D-Ill.) and Senator Dave Durenberger (R.-Minn.). 
IDEA would make available $70,000 of loans for most college and graduate-level students and up to $143,000 for medical students. Under this proposal, upon graduation students would repay the loans based on their income. Those with higher post-graduation incomes would be expected to repay with slightly higher interest rates and faster than others. 
IDEA loans payments would be collected by the IRS as part of the individual's income tax. According to Petri, most students would repay the loans within 12 to 17 years and indi­viduals would not be responsible to repay loan totals left after 25 years. 
Petri identifies three sources of savings in the IDEA program, which are currently under debate. First, the program would have virtually no student loan defaults, according to Petri. "Because the loans are automatically rescheduled based on income, there would be no reason to default. Further, IDEA repayments are defined as income taxes. Evading repayment would be tax evasion. So there would be no opportunity to default,'' he said. 
Second, the cost of loan capital under IDEA would be lower because the IDEA program would use direct government capital rather than bank capital which, under current pro­grams, comes with a politically­negotiated high interest rate, accord­ing to Petri. Finally, Petri believes the program would be much simpler to administer, as a result of the col­lection by the IRS of the loan repayments as income tax. 

Russo has certain concerns about the proposed direct loan program. According to Russo, the record of the federal government in administering student aid in an efficient and accurate manner, leaves much to be desired. "The U.S. Department of Education has itself, along with the administration, indicated its serious concern about being able to admin­ister a direct loan program." The IRS has also been leery about involvement in the program, he said. 
Russo also fears that many new responsibilities would fall on the schools, which most financial aid offices would not have the ability to fulfill. "Since we would effectively become bankers, each institution would be subject to learning and staying on top of a whole new set of banking regulations," Russo added. 
Russo said that the present guaranteed student loan program needs major revamping and that a complete program change to direct loan would be unnecessary. "Moreover, some of the suggested features of the proposed program (e.g., electronic funds transfer (EFT) and standardization) are currently achievable and, in some cases, al­ready in use, n he said. 
----~--~~ ------------~-------------. 
Viewpoint 
Thursday, February 13, 1992 
---Ih---e-O.bse.-~~a._.a.~•=-~.L-~ -­
. ---­

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 

News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Dlractor .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Rector abused power by censoring election posters 
Dear Editor: Student Activities for posting. and the voters to discuss and Father George's actions have George typifies the attitudes of 
Father George has committed exchange ideas, but this process violated the rights of the candi­the Notre Dame Administration. 
On Thursday, Feb. 6, 1992, a terrible abuse of his authori­cannot be fully realized when dates and the students. This is A university is a place for minds The Observer published an arti­tative power. He had no right to certain ideas are unjustly being an election for the students, and to exchange and explore the cle that infuriated me. The arti­remove the posters from the withheld from the voters. the students will decide which ideas and opinions of others in cle concerned the actions of walls of Alumni. It is totally ir­ticket is worthiest, but a fair an open environment. Father George Rozum, rector of relevant whether he agrees or In an election process, the and complete judgement cannot Unfortunately, the Alumni Hall. Father George disagrees with the voters have the right to hear be made without access to all administration does what removed the campaign posters Delevan/Wilson posters, be­and read all ideas and available information. I do not makes them look and feel good of the Delevan/Wilson ticket be­cause this election is for the platforms put forth by the understand how Father George with total disregard for what is cause he felt the posters "were students, not for Father George. candidates. Conversely, appointed himself official best for their students. not consistent with the Through his actions, he has candidates in the election censor for Alumni Hall? University policy on sexuality." defeated the entire purpose of process have the right to This is all so very dishearten­John Anthony Anella Ironically, these posters were an election. An election is an express all their opinions no ing. I feel this display of Alumni Hall approved by the Office of open forum for the candidates matter what they may be. closemindedness by Fat~er Feb.10,1992 
Students must defend All ND varsity teams deserve support 
Dear Editor: campus. support as much as any major Mark McGrath seems upset I would suspect it even revenue producing sport. 
'slaughtered' babies 
with the lack of fan support for outdraws the championship We are not a campus of Dear Editor: For surely the Notre Dame men's basketball. After all, game of the Bookstore drones who follow some herd community can and does re­barely 8,000 fans showed up to Basketball tournament, mentality. Thank those who 
The last two years I've been spond to tragedy as witnessed watch the men's basketball although it's possible that the follow your favorite sport and working at the pregnancy help by the outpouring of compas­team play Detroit Mercy. Mark whole Bookstore tournament tolerate those who choose to center located three blocks sion which occurred should be grateful, though. outdraws the whole men's bas­support a different sport or west of the J.A.C.C. and subsequent to the deaths of While men's basketball doesn't ketball season. even non-sports activities. Any adjacent to St. Joseph County's Margaret Beeler and Colleen attract as many fans as the What's my point? Why give given team is a symbol of the only abortion clinic. Every year Hipp. Is there not also a need varsity football team, it does the men's basketball team spe­University, but all are equally about 1700 babies are killed in for an outpouring of seem to attract more fans than cial treatment? Why not lament such. this clinic. One or two days a compassion on behalf of these the swim teams, the tennis the lack of fan support at all Nick Laflamme week I see people at the en­preborn children? teams, the baseball team, the varsity events? There are other Notre Dame '85 trance of the abortion clinic try­While the Old Testament re­softball team, the fencing good teams on campus, and Feb.5,1992 ing to persuade mothers out of peatedly warns us of God's teams, the hockey team, or any even the teams which don't get aborting their babies. anger against those who do other varsity or club sport on national recognition deserve fan 
During the school year I also nothing about preventing inno­see some Saint Mary's and cent blood from being shed with 
Rape combaters not necessarily 'victims' 
Notre Dame students now and impunity, Jesus' words are then doing this "sidewalk coun­possibly much more threaten­Dear Editor: However, he did not speak to well-trained to educate our seling." Compared to other ci­ing: "I tell you the truth, what­In regards to student body the identified victim. At no peers about rape. ties with abortion clinics and ever you did not do for one of presidential candidate Richard moment during our presenta­
Delevan's remarks concerning tions would we identify our-
the proximity to Notre Dame the least of these, you did not Sheila Buckman 
C.A.R.E. in an interview in the selves as victims. Because we Claire Konopa the number of people trying to do for me." "Then they will go 
most recent issue of Scholastic, are aware of the damaging Margaret Roper be a voice for the unborn is away to eternal punishment but we, as members of C.A.R.E. misconception that all those Missy Sherman surprisingly small. the righteous to eternal life." 
wish to correct a mistake. In who work to combat rape have R.G. Starman
I do not know why more stu­Peter Helland 
the printed interview Richard been raped themselves, we Nora Whalen 
dents are not more concerned Class of '78 
Delevan states that he had spo­wish to clarify that we operate Jenny Witt 
that 35 babies a week are being Jan.29,1992 ken with a "victim" at our pre­as a group of concerned men C.A.R.E. slaughtered at their doorsteps. sentation in Planner Hall. and women who have been Feb.9,1992 
DOONESBURY QUOTE OF THE DAY

r----------------------------,
CAMPAIGN''32 -TRASH FOR CASH 
5. My relationShip with the 1. I believe my story will: candidate lasted: 0 ~store my good name 0 12years 0 help me find a hustand 
060days 0 malt:e my parents proud 060second5 Oget me a ~m deal ONOtsure 0 renePit manKind 
6. lheJast thint;~ that the a. Mynameis: candidate said to me was: 
0 Gennifer witha "G"
0 "This will not stand." 
0 Jennifer with a ''J"0 "Need a jot>?• 
0 t<andy with a "K"
0 "CUomo's acting lilce an 
OCDrrii with two''i's• 0 r<aree with a "K': one 
Italian-American stereotype.• 
O"Message: I care.• 
"r"and t.wo •e•s•
o·WtJat~ that whirring sound~· 
0(Jther_____ 
.._____________________________... 


'To be ignorant of one's ignorance is the malady of the ignorant.' 
A. B. Alcott 

Don't keep it in the dark. submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 
Viewpoint

PageS Thursday, February 13, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Co-ed, chemical-free dorm offers a novel solution 

administration's misgivings on the issue are unfounded. 
Why should we suddenly pro­pose this? Simply put, the polls taken and released by campus publications show that an overwhelming majority of stu­dents favor co-educational housing. We do not feel it nec­essary to repeat the arguments for co-ed housing (they have been rehashed periodically in campus publications) instead we believe that we now have a unique opportunity to act on what has been discussed for years. 
Previously, the unwillingness to convert one's own dorm was most often cited as the single 
greatest obstacle to co-ed living at Notre Dame. But now, with the eviction of the residents of Pangborn, the administration has removed this barrier. None of the present occupants are scheduled to live in Pangborn next year, so no one will lose a dorm. The time is perfect for the conversion to co-ed housing. Why a chemical-free dorm? In order for the student body to even get the attention of the administration and University on this issue, we must, in the preliminary stages of discus­sion, show that we are willing to make concessions. With the recent talks in Grace Hall about a chemical-free section, we feel 
that a voluntarily chemical-free dorm would be a great way to show those in power that those living in the co-ed quarters are responsible individuals, willing to be held accountable for their actions and serious about their commitment to co-educational living. 
We are certain that many of the misgivings about co-educa­tional housing (acquaintance rape, general rowdiness), since they are alcohol-related, will prove unfounded were the pro­posed conversion to take place. 
Who would be eligible for such a dorm? Anyone willing to live in close proximity to members of the opposite sex, and at the 

same time agree to keep the dorm chemical-free (no alcohol or drugs to be consumed or possessed inside the dorm and no returning to the dorm intox­icated). Anyone who wants the opportunity to prove the doubters wrong and show that male-female relations are bet­tered by co-ed housing. And anyone with the commitment to take a stand and sacrifice some of their alcohol-related rights to show that co-ed housing works. Naturally, because one would have to volunteer and sign a contract to be in a chemical­free dorm, freshmen would have to make this agreement rather than just be assigned to 
next few weeks to show the true depth of student support for co­ed housing. In the meantime, we ask that you, the student body, show how you feel by writing to the various campus publications. Presenting a unified student body through letters to the editors of The Observer, Scholastic. etc. is the only way any of us can achieve anything. This may be your only chance to stand up and be counted -please take advantage of it. 
John Daly James Gannon Pangborn Hall 
Feb.8,1992 

American coverage of Northern Ireland lacks illumination 
Dear Editor: 
In the last month there have been several letters to the edi­tor concerning Northern Ireland and this show of interest is not surprising considering the gathering of Irish-Americans here at Notre Dame. This concern, however, is frustrated because of a complete lack of attentiveness to the situation in Northern Ireland by the American press. Recently violence in Northern Ireland has increased significantly. Despite this, no illumination of the subject for the average American has been given by the 
U.S. media. 
Also, almost no direct cover­age of these events by American journalists occurs with most feeling content to take the facts from the British press. What has developed in the U.S. is a lack of interest in the North and the general feeling that nothing can be done about the troubles. 
The situation in Northern Ireland is complex and the sound bites comprising the news we hear tell us little, if anything, of use. For instance, recently an RUC (Royal Ulster Constabulary) constable shot and killed three people in the Sinn Fein office (Sinn Fein wants unity with Republic of Ireland) in Belfast and then killed himself. This was stated to be due to the death of an­other constable who was his friend. What was almost uni­versally ignored was the fact the the friend's death was unre­lated to the fighting going on in the province. Also, only one of the people killed was a member of Sinn Fein. 
By failing to mention these simple pieces of the story, the implication in the American press was generally that the death of the first constable was the doing of the IRA and the shooting at the Sinn Fein office was a retaliation. So the con­fused lashing out of one indi­vidual then appears to be part of the ongoing fighting that seems hopelessly irreparable. 
The way in which we get our news also impairs our ability to understand the situation in Northern Ireland. Most of our information comes from British sources where the IRA routinely provide the focus for the pre­sentation of events. If the IRA is not involved, the actual group involved is often not even mentioned. Sometimes this leads to the conclusion that the IRA is killing Republicans or Catholics when in fact it was the Loyalist Ooyal to the Queen of England) UFF or UDR or RUC who were acting. This was the case in the recent murder of five Catholics by the UFF. 

Again, an accurate under­standing of the event is trashed and the view presented is that the IRA are just engaging in more mindless violence. More generally, a greater knowledge of the sides and their positions is not passed on. 
These are just two simple examples in which events are consistently twisted by our press. When this happens re­peatedly, as in fact it does, the compounded effect is that the 44 million plus Irish-Americans are prevented from understand­ing the conflict and the conflict is thereby prevented from being resolved. It should be explicitly noted that I do not insist that the IRA don't do their share of violence, only that there are more aspects to this issue than our news leads us to believe. 
The Northern Ireland Awareness Group has been cre­ated to right this wrong for as many at Notre Dame as care to participate. A second function of the group is to act, and we may be encouraged to know that there are peaceful ways to do so such as supporting the MacBride Principles of Fair Employment. If you are inter­ested, please join us in our meeting Monday, February 17 at 7:00p.m. in the Montgomery Theater in LaFortune . 
Bob Kehoe Off-Campus 
Feb.12,1992 

Avoiding sports events does not constitute a crime 
Dear Editor: 
I've only been to one Notre Dame basketball game (well, I did watch a girls game for a few minutes, but I won't count that). That lone game was our loss to North Carolina at the Meadowlands. I don't intend to go to another game either. Does that make me a bad Notre Dame student? The plain fact is, I don't like to watch basket­ball that much. Why should I shell out big bucks to go to games I don't enjoy? 
Do I want Notre Dame to win? Yes. Do I realize that it's a lot of hard work to play basketball? Yes. Do the players deserve fan support? Of course they do, but certainly no more than Rugby players, fencers, or the women's golf team. 
I've been reading these stupid letters for what seems like weeks about how our fan support stinks. About how it used to be so great and now its not. And especially about how, apparently, there are these loyal few that attend every game and cheer their hearts out for their beloved team (in a transitional period of course). When's the last time they were at the golf course to support our cross country team? This is not to say that I've ever been to a cross country meet, I have no interest in watching that either. 
What I want to know is when did it become a crime not to at­tend a sporting event? The fact is that attendance is not going to pick up until the team im­proves. These guys play their hearts out (I think) and deserve to win, but they're just not.. .good. People want to see a good team play, it's as simple as that. What makes Notre Dame Men's Basketball (notice the capitals) immune to this universal rule? Why should we all of a sudden start going to see a team that's not good? 
Basketball's just like any other sport. Heck, it gets a whole lot more fan support than most. 
The only people who go to see most sporting events are friends of the players. If basketball fan support was like it is for the rest of Notre Dame sports, they'd have one of the smallest crowds. 
There's no way to improve basketball attendance without improvement in the team. Even playing off the Notre Dame student mentality won't work. What's the first question that pops into the mind of the aver­age ND student when asked to do something? It's "What's in it for me?" So, maybe the admin­istration should give credit for attending sports events. 
The athletic department could rank the sports in terms of im­portance, with football being worth least because most peo­ple go anyway, and say, a fenc­ing meet being worth most be­cause hardly anyone would ever want to go there (trust me, they're really long). Each stu­dent would have to build up a certain amount of credits in order to complete each semester. I realize this would be difficult and possibly require different evaluations for men and women. 

For example, women's soccer would have to be worth less for men because I've got to believe it's considerably more enter­taining for a guy than a girl. But, after a few hundred sur­veys, I'm sure the Athletic Department, in all its wisdom, could come up with some sort of system. 
Maybe they could even hire some washed up ND football player to head the project (it's got to be getting harder and harder to come up with these jobs every year, and it would take a little pressure off the alumni to hire them). Problem is, fencing attendance would swell to football proportions with people who want to get their credits out of the way, guys might discover women's soccer is actually a good game too, and basketball attendance 
would probably drop, it being 
the second most worthless sport 
behind football. Catch-22. 
Football attendance is high 

because the team's good and lots of nuts who never went here love to go too. Don't try to tell me that no students skipped the football games when Gerry Faust was at his worst (no of­fense, I like Gerry. I've left games early and skipped them entirely. Does that make me crazy? Some say so -probably the same people whose minds were "put at ease" when Rick Mirer decided not to be embar­rassed in the draft. Does this make me a bad ND student? If it does, then I'm content to be a distant relation in the Notre ·Dame Family (I won't even get 
started on that one). 
John Stoj Rich Huftalen 
E. Jay Nash 
E. Rommel Nash Off-Campus 
Feb.10,1992 

1 
I i I
Accent I 
I 
I Thursday, February 13, 1992 page 9 l 


ASearch lor Perspective 
Annual exhibit showcases work created 
by architecture students 
while in Rome 


neering, in accordance with JPW. 
While in Rome, the students were responsible for a major project each semester. Last year, during first semester design, students were to complete the plan for unification of the seven pilgrimage churches, as proposed by Pope Sixtus V in 1585. 
Second semester, students followed instructions from a "distinguished family in Rome" wishing to build an urban palazzo for their Roman residence. Two sites were available, and the program was complicated by the family's eccentric interests and business needs, including requirements for a printing studio, antique shop and music room. 
Studying for a year in Rome was very experiential, according to Kasman and Laucirica. "It definitely broadened our horizons," agreed Expo Roma co-chariman John Vandevelde. "We were able to see everything we see in books and slides firsthand." 
"It brought architecture alive," Laucirica said. The Rome Program of 
Architectural Studies originated in the fall of 1969. under chairman Frank Montana. In 1982, a Chicago design focus began for the fourth year of studies. 
Together these programs give students the opportunity to study the urban architecture of Europe, specifically Rome, in addition to today's American architecture of Chicago. 
More than 100 displays are -­included in this year's Expo Roma, with various amounts of work-time being devoted to each by students. While a sketch may take only an hour to complete, "it takes months to develop ideas," Vandevelde said. 
Expo Roma begins with an opening reception on Friday, Feb. 14 at 7 p.m. and concludes on Saturday, Feb. 22 at 1 p.m. with a reception to familiarize area ar­chitectural firms with the work by Notre Dame students. 
"We want to open our doors and have people come in," said Laucirica. 
By JAHNELLE HARRIGAN 
Assistant Accent Editor 
The history and tradition of Rome is coming to Notre Dame in a way unlike any standard textbook. 
Expo Roma, an exhibit of student work from the 1990-91 Rome Studies Program, is being presented Feb. 14-22 by current fourth-year architecture students who spent the last year studying in Rome. 
The exhibit, located in the lobby of the Architecture Building, presents work such as watercolors, sketches, photographs. and design projects completed by students during their year in Rome. 
"These fragments of a year of study in Rome are woven together by a common outlook of exploration and discovery," according to the exhibit's literature. 
This year's Expo Roma, entitled "A Search for Perspective" is an attempt by students to integrate their studies at Notre Dame with their experience in Rome to help them better understand the architect's role in both a larger cultural and historical context. 
Students expressed their hope to share their work with the Notre Dame community. "We feel that when you're abroad, you become sort of separated from the University," explained John Kasman. a fourth-year architecture student and co-chairman of Expo Roma. "You want to show the work you're so proud of." 
"It's an incredible experience (studying in Rome)," fourth-year student Stephen Laucirica said. "We want to demonstrate to the whole school what we've done." 
It is no coincidence that Expo Roma begins during Junior Parent's Weekend. Because architecture students spend their junior year in Rome, their fourth year at Notre Dame is used for JPW and gives parents a chance to see the students' work. 
Fourth-year architecture students will attend a program Saturday morning including a breakfast reception, slide show presentation, speeches by Thomas Smith, director of the School of Architecture, and Tony Michel. the Dean of Engi­
----------..._..........---­

Accent 
page 10 Thursday, February 13, 1992 
Just an old-fashioned love song 
South Bend Chamber Singers to perform solo recital at Saint Mary's on Valentine's Day 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN 
Literary Critic 
It is the book that Congress­man Tim Roemer seems to think that every congressman should read. 
In fact, Roemer feels so strongly about this that he is in the process of distributing a copy of the second edition of Professor Robert Schmuhl's critically acclaimed book "Statecraft and Stagecraft: American Political Life in the Age of Personality" to every member of Congress. 

-
Written for a broad audience, "Statecraft and Stagecraft" is a clear, provocative approach to American politics that explores the involvement of the media in our public life. Schmuhl at­tempts to deal with the funda­mental questions that arise 
from the reliance of today's politicians on popular forms of communication. 
In this second edition, Schmuhl updates his study of the involvement of the media in our public life by including a new chapter on the Persian Gulf War. The well-timed paperback, as noted by Washington-Post columnist David Broder, also provides a peek ahead to what voters may expect in the 1992 presidential election. 
After the precedent set in the 
1988 presidential campaign of 
mud-slinging and negative ad-


Statecraft and Stagecraft: American Political Life in the Age of Personality 
By 
Professor Robert Schmuhl 
vertising, the American people are understandably anxious to see what lay ahead in the up­coming months. 
Schmuhl assures his readers in the "Postscript," the newest chapter added to his book, "that growing controversy over political negativism has led to some institutional soul-search­ing ... .In journalism the realiza­tion of the impact of negative spots on individual campaigns and on the whole political cli­mate is resulting in more sus­tained scrutiny of the ads as they appear." 
According to Schmuhl, 1992 is plagued with problems that were not evident in 1988 and is a "year that cries out for sub­stance." It will be on the shoulders of the media to get candidates to address the problems with specific solutions that the American electorate is demanding. 
"As a result, there is less chance of having a campaign dominated by flags and fur­loughs," Schmuhl said. 
Schmuhl points out George Bush's vulnerabilities as he en­ters the 1992 presidential cam­paign. 
"The trick for the 
Democrats," writes Schmuhl, 
"will be to exploit or cope with 
that vulnerability." 
According to the author, Bush's huge popularity during the Persian Gulf War scared many front-running Democrats out of the race. Democrats want someone that they think can win and that someone needs to have strong appeal in the South. "Gov. Clinton, at first blush, seemed to be that person," Schmuhl said. 
The Democrats have "gone from having someone who quickly emerged as the likely front-runner to someone around whom many serious questions swirl, so many, in fact, that [Clinton's] candidacy is very much in doubt," Schmuhl added. 
Schmuhl seems to believe that the problems with our political system are far greater than the problematic politicians attempting to run for office. The origin of America's political chaos is rooted in the process in which chooses the candi­dates. "We can expect the problems we now see," said Schmuhl. 
He writes, "The need for a different political-media envi­ronment is apparent to anyone who passed a basic civic course. Without changes in the way we learn about and assess 
By ERIN BROWN 
Accent Writer 

The South Bend Chamber Singers is a local group of per­formers who are bringing their talent to Saint Mary's on Valen­tine's Day. 
The theme? Love, of course. 
The choir will be performing a solo recital at Haggar College Center Friday evening. Although there are nearly 30 members in the group, only a select eight or nine will per­form. 
According to director Nancy Menk, these semi-professional singers will entertain their au­dience with light-hearted music to keep the Valentine's Day theme of love. The vocalists will perform selections by Gershwin, Rodgers, and Lloyd­Webber, to name a few. 
Although many people may not be familiar with the Cham­ber Singers, the members aren't all strangers. In fact, two of the singers are Notre Dame professors. Philosophy professor Kenneth Sayre, a baritone, and physics profes­sor, Steve Lundeen, a tenor, will be doing some out-of-the­classroom performing on Friday. 
The choir was founded in 1989 by Menk, who is also the associate professor of music at Saint Mary's. Menk has been the director of choral studies at Saint Mary's since 1984. This Pennsylvania native has lec­tured and written much on the subject of women's choir litera­ture. According to Menk, she founded the choir because she saw much local talent, but few opportunities to express it. 
The 28 male and female members range in age from their 20s to their 60s. Menk says that the singers are an "extremely musical group, and very intelligent. They are a lot of fun to work with," she added. 
According to Menk, the choir mostly performs 20th century contemporary pieces by living composers This is done in order to keep a fresh and un­common mix of music unlike many conductors who stick to 18th and 19th century music. 
The Chamber Singers present three concerts annually and one solo recital. They have also performed with the South Bend Symphony Chamber Orchestra. 
This spring, the group will be performing on March 28 at Saint Mary's Little Theatre and on April 26, one of the season's highlights, with the Chicago Chamber Orchestra. 
As for the future, Menk doesn't have many plans other than to "continue with the regular concert season." But, according to her, with the high caliber of talent and perfor­mances, that will be plenty. 
The chamber singers will perform their Valentine's Day show this Friday at 8 p.m. at the Haggar College Center Par­lor at Saint Mary's. 
STATECRAFT 
---·------------·--·------· AN'D 
STAGECRAFT 
AMERICAN POLmCAL UF£ iN TH£ Aut OF PERSONAU; t 
---ROBERT SCHMUHL--­
"Statecraft and Stagecraft: American Political Life in the Age of Personality," written by Prof. Robert Schmuhl, can be purchased at the Notre Dame Bookstore. 
public figures and affairs, Director of the Program on American political life will con­Ethics and Media at the Univer­tinue to be polarized." sity of Notre Dame. 
Schmuhl is the acting chair­"Statecraft and Stagecraft: man and an associate professor American Political Life in the in the Department for Age of Personality" is available American Studies as well as the at the Notre Dame Bookstore. 
-
~---~--~ 
Thursday, February 13, 1992 page 11 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day class~ieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 

USED TEXTBOOKS! Buy & Sell Books Pandora's Books 3 blks. from ND 233-2342/10-5:30 M-Sun 
Multimedia Demo and DOS User's Group Meeting Thurs. Feb. 13 7:00pm G015 Computer -Math Build. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082. 
LOST/FOUND 
Found: Men's watch in the Final Exam room for Todd Whitmore's War, Law, and Ethics during Fall 
Exam Week. 
Inquire at Lost and Found iri 
Hesburgh Library. 
LOST: IRISH GOLD RING IN THE HUDDLE. PLEASE CALL CLAUDINE IN DELl AT 239-5044. 
LOST: Pair of round-frame, prescription sunglasses-I can't ski/see without them!! Please call x4980 
LOST -black Sharp calculator in Library auditorium on 217 call x1621 
LOST: FRESHWATER PEARL & 
GOLD BEAD BRACELET ON 2/7. 
CALL ANNE 234-1752. 
LOST: LADY'S BLACK SHEER SCARF WITH ROSES. TAKEN FROM BOOKBAG RACK IN HUDDLE. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. PLEASE CALL SHEILA AT 
255-7684 BEFORE 3 PM OR 
RETURN TO HUDDLE DELl. 
LOST GOLD FILIGREE HEART 
BRACELET OF GREAT 
SENTIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE 
CALL KATARA W. @2965 IF 
FOUND. REWARD PENDING! 
LOST ONE GOLD FILIGREE HEART LINK BRACELET OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND OR YOU KNOW WHO HAS, PLEASE CALL KATARA W. @2965. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. REWARD PENDING! 
FOUND: 
Gold Ring in SDH on 2/9/92 
Call Marianne at x4174 
REWARD!!! REWARD!!! 
REWARD!!! 
Lost: Gold chain with half 
heart pendant. 1/27 between 
SDH and JACC. 
VERY SENTIMENTAL!!!!!!!!!!! 
Call Ryan x1134. 
LOST!! AT THE SOPHMORE FORMAL BLACK BRAE FER coat with the name Diggy on the nametag. Please call Becky at 284­4107. 
LOST: 2/8 Blue ND ID pouch with 
Fla driver license, ID, Detex, and 
keys. If found, PLEASE call Lynn 
x1260. 
Men's glasses at wild Howard 
party on 1/25 -Bevo x2558 
LOST: 4 KEYS ON A SMC 
BOTTLE-OPENER KEYCHAIN 
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN ST. 
ED'S AND LEMANS HALL. 
Christian 283-2742 
WANTED 

ND-SMC couple '81 offering FREE 
ROOM AND BOARD for part-time 
summer help with toddlers. 
Barrington, IL area. Call 708-428­
1051. 
Need ride to Ll or Area for S.B.Can 
leave 3/6. Anne x2580 WANTED: 5 TO 10 DEDICATED STUDENTS TO FILL THE MON.4-6; THURS.6-8; FRI.6-8, 8-10,AND10-12 EVENING SHIFTS FOR COUNSELINE. IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN PROVIDING THIS COMMUNITY SERVICE, CALL 239-7336 
Going to Hart1ord, CT area for Spring Break? I need a ride. Will help w/ gas and tolls. Donna: 284-5191 
$40,000/YR! READ BOOKS and TV Scripts. Fill out simple "like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun, relaxing at home, beach, vacations. Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 Hour Recording 801-379-2925 Copyright #IN11 KEB 
Need a ride to D.C. Met. area Will Split gas & tolls 
Call Bill at x4141 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153. 
6-7 BEDROOM HOME.SECURITY 
ALARM.FURNISHED.WALK TO 
CAMPUS.FOR 1992-93.272-6306 
ROOM TO RENT. USE OF ALL UTILITIES/FACILITIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. NICE NEIGHBORHOOD & HOME. $225/MO. PAUL 232­2794. 
Bed & Breakfast for N.D./ St. Mary's families. 2 bedrooms, private bath. Ten minutes from campus. Safest neighborhood in area 234-2626. 
FOR SALE 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50, 87 MERCEDES $100,65 MUSTANG $50. Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Details 801-379-2929 Copyright # 1N11KJC 
2 NITZEREBB CONCERT TIX 
THE VIC -CHICAGO 
DIE WARSAU OPENS 
7:30, FEB 16 (this Sun) 
RyM X1048 
Got BOGUS plans for SPRING BREAK? Here's a deal: $165 rndtp fit to S Padre Mar 6-15/ 16 & sweet condo $130 for the week. Avail b/c 2 friends can't go last min. Scott x1538 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 Mercedes ...................... $200 
86 vw....................................$50 
87 Mercedes ...................... $1 00 
65 Mustang .......................... $50 
Choose from thousands starting 
$25. FREE 24 Hour Recording 
Reveals Details 801-379-2929 
Copyright 
#IN11KJC 
TICKETS 
NEED 3 UCLA TIX CALL BLAIR 
277-2695 
HELP! I Need 4 UCLA 
B-Ball Tixs!! 
Mimi 284-5158 
PERSONALS 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
Good rates. Save Money. Call me 
for a quote 9:30-6:00, 
289-1993. Office near campus. 
Chris and Brian, 
I love you both so much, 
I long to feel your touch. 
It's you two that I miss, 
Come and steal a kiss! 
Passionately, 
Ellis F. 
P.S.: Forgive me J.l? 
SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS London (5/20-6/19) and Rome (6/14-7/13). Travel in Ireland, Scottland, England, France, Germany, Switzerland, and Northern Italy. Courses in bio, business, education, history, photography, poly sci, Italian, soc. Organizational meeting FEB. 17, 
6:30 pm, Carroll hall (SMC). For info call Prof. Black 284-4460 (office) or 272-3726 (home). 
ADOPT -Devoted father, full-time mother seek newborn to join family. We promise your baby love and understanding, a good education & fun. Supportive grandparents. Legal. Call Bev & Howard COLLECT 914-235-3917. 
TODAY IS THE LAST DAY TO SUBMIT YOUR VALENTINE'S PERSONALS. DEADLINE IS 
3:00PM. 
BUY SPRING BREAK TRIPS NOW to Bahamas, S. Padre, Cancun, Panama City, or Jamiaca From LISA at x4667. Trips are selling FAST! Don't be left out!! 
Waking Nose, 
I am the culprit. 
Leeks in the Night 
BOSKI is too SEXY for his 
Lizard King!!! 
DID YOU FORGET TO ORDER 
THAT VALENTINE A DELIVERY 
FROM IRISH GARDENS??? 
You can still come in and buy 
flowers, balloons, and cards. 
THEY'LL STILL LOVE YOU. 
We PROMISE. 
Lucas Fairborn, 
Hal Hal hahahahahahah!!!!!!!!! 
with love, 
your mother 
GOING TO U of I, CHAMPAIGN 
this weekend? We need a 
ride; can help with gas! Call 
Elizabeth X3885 or Karen X2891 
That's the way it goes, I guess ... 
Kelly .... 
Waking Nose, Book in the Head, 
and Two Winds, 
May your horses run fast to the 
buffalo, we must smoke the peace 
pipe. 
Leeks in the Night. 
DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO O'HARE? CALL UNITED LIMO. SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK FROM ND BUS SHELTER. 884-7000 OR 1-800-833-5555. 
7 NIGHTS OF CRAZY COLLEGE 
FUN FROM $199/BUS 
$299-CALL JAMES 277-9249 
Bunny, 
Happy Birthday! 
Love, Peter 
ATIENTION. We aren't going to feign subtlty. Monica Yant is a vey sexually frustrated young women. So, why not call her (X 4098) and tell her it could be worse. She could be a male at Notre Dame. 
Yes, we killed your snowrnan. But we were putting him out of his misery. He was dying a slow, painful, melting death. Near the end he was just begging us to kill him. And what kind of friends are you anyway, leaving him out in the cold like that? We were his only two friends, and we've slept better now that we know that your miserable snowman isn't suffering anymore. 
hey nil STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call1-800-878-3696. 

SUMMER JOBS 

ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-786­8373 
The Lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans! 
SPRING BREAK '92. Day1ona, $149, Cancun $489, Bahamas $449. Best prices & accommodations guaranteed!!! 1 (800) 724-1555 or 236-5825 (24 hrs.) 
To the little girls who just can't take 
it. 

SMICTERCOURSE: The overwhelming phenomenon here at N.D. which has to do with the men being able to go to a bar, spend under five dollars on beer for a girl and then bring her back to his room and get play. 
-thanks 

HAPPY VALENTINE"S DAY, ERIN! 
We've been helping to meet the needs of gay, lesbian and bisexual students and their friends for almost 20 years. Write us with your questions or suggestions. CONFIDENTIALITY GUARANTEED! 
GL!@/SMC, Box 194, Notre Dame, 
IN 46556 

Why isn't your dorm a Safe Haven? Why isn't your class a Safe Haven? Why isn't your organization a Sale Haven? Take care of yourself and your friends: do something about it! 
EVERYTHING YOU KNOW IS 
WRONG!!!!!!I!!!!II!IIIIII!!I!I!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Come see big, burly German men 
at the Cavanaugh Hall Play. 
February 27, 28, and 29 
Washington Hall 8 p.m. 
Donations accepted for the Andy 
Sowder Scholarship fund 
N.D. Best Buddies T-shirts!! $10 at NDH & SDH 2/11-2/13 (Tue-Thu) Great Valentine's Day gift!!!! 
CREIGHTON CREIGHTON CREIGHTON CREIGHTON CREIGHTON 
BUT HAVING OBSERVED ALL 
FROM ON HIGH, DR. INKSTER 
WAS PLEASED WITH DR. 
STAT,HIGH COUNCIL 
PROPHET,AND SAID,"GO 
STAT,MY SON. I GIVE TO YOU 
THE POWER OF THE COUNCIL 
TO BATILE THIS EVIL" 

Trained masseuse offering services. Steve x2354 
HURRY! Don't Miss Out. SOUTH PADRE and CANCUN SPRING BREAK of "92"1 Seven night packages from $199. Lowest prices guaranteed. Call Orion Tours TODAY: 1-800-800-6050. 
SHANNON 
Thanks for a great weekend in 
Chicago. I hope we get to spend 
some time on V-Day. Happy pre­
Valentine Day. 
C­
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center We're Open Everyday!!! 

For any one looking for a romantic 
adventure, you can find it on THE 
LOVE BOAT! Wear a CARDIGAN 
and be ready to hit the FLOOR! 
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL MEMBERS (OR ANYONE INTERESTED IN HELPING FIGHT HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES): PLEASE COME TO OUR MEETING SUNDAY, FEB. 16 AT 8:30P.M. 
IN MONTGOMERY THEATER IN LAFORTUNE. EVERY BIT HELPS! 
WRITE A LETER ... ... SAVE A LIFE. 
IT IS BETIER TO LIGHT ONE CANDLE THAN TO CURSE THE DARKNESS-AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL MEETING 8:30 SUNDAY IN THE MONTGOMERY THEATER. BE THERE. 

Wishing Cheryl Moser an early Happy Valentine's Day, 'cause she's real cool and the men of Notre Dame don't know what they are missing. You're awesome!!! 
The weights were lifted, the 
muscles rippled, and when it was 
over, two guys from 3rd floor 
Flanner were victorious. Here are 
the official results. 
915-16 Grace: 710 pounds 
320 Flanner: 920 pounds Wow, that leaves a 21 0 pound difference. Special mention to a kick-butt perform;mce by Jaime. Jaime almost set a new max, and Rich set two new highs. Marty and Rich thank Perry, lzzy, Jaime and Gibb for trying. Like we said earlier, you may be tough, but we're BAD. Can't wait for that beer. Think of it as a learning experience, but you guys are still fast and s**t.!l 

Dawn-This weekend is going to be great, Jason or no Jason. He doesn't know what he's missing! 
-The Walking Hormone 

Shelley-Have fun with your parents! Don't forget to eat a bunch of breadsticks for rne! -Mariah Carey 
Angie and Todd-You'll have the room to yourselves this weekend and I expect it to be put to GOOD USE!! Seriously, I'll be envying you guys-when you break out the Ready Whip, think of lonely little me with only my letters and teddy bear. -Me 
Where would we be without Ween? -without all the men she's seen. -we wouldn't know where we have been. -we wouldn't have pictures (and stories) obscene. -we wouldn't know how to be mean. -we wouldn't have Mexico's jumping bean. -we wouldn't make the list of the dean. -we wouldn't be hip with the bar scene. -we wouldn't intimately know the lacrosse team. -things wouldn't be as they seem. 
Happy Birthday!! II!!!!!!!!!! Love, La, Cheryl, and Gennie 
To Colleen-Happy Birthday!!!! Love,your"scopes" SF, B, "Scope," & T 
C-
Happy B-day! Are you 22 or 20? 

can't remember. Looking forward to 
another year of sisterhood scopin'l 
I'll get you an SYR date for your 
birthday ... your choice ... what a 

present! WOW!!! Whatta woman!!! 
Love, La 
Colleen-Happy Birthday!!!! 
Welcome to the world of non­
teenagers!lllllll 
Love, Cheryl 

Alas, Alack, Anon, Forsooth, Heavens to Mergartroid, Heavens to Betsy, and Betwixt. -To all those who seem to care. Don't give me that look Jen, it doesn't scare me. 
Happy Birthday, Colleen!!!!!!! 
Hey Beavs GET A LIFE!!! GO OFF-CAMPUS! 
If you want to spend money, give it to us instead of buying personals. 
LEAVE US ALONE! Thanks­The Project 
To the taller ROB from Tuesday's classifides-
We don't have red hair, but we are 2 voluptuous brunettews and a blonde .... 
DIE SNOWMAN DIE!!! 
ATIENTION MIKE STIVERS!!! 
IN THE LAND OF THE BLIND, 
THE ONE-EYED MAN IS KING. 
oris it THE ONE-EYED WOMAN IS QUEEN? 
BLOCK, BLOCK, ATIACK. Your 
cococut patty is still on hold. 
I need a ride to anywhere in Florida (want to go visit my "summer service project" friends in Orlando)! I would be willing to help with gas $ and with driving. Please call Cristina x4907. 
It's Colleen's 20th Birthday Today!!! 
Hello to Dr. Hohenstein's 2:45 TfTh 
Core Class!lll!ll! 
Feliz Cumpleanos, Colleenl!l!llll!!!! 
EXPLORE THE PHYSICAL, BIOLOGICAL, & SOCIAL SCIENCES W~h Low-Cost Educational Software For IBM PC® & Compatible Computers. Music & Gardening Software Also Available Send Self-Add. Stamped Env. for Catalog to 
D.E.D. ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING 10306 E. Live Oak Ave., Arcadia CA 9t 007 
"Grand Opening" Mo' Better 
Ribs & More 1740 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 219-271-7415
J).
u......; Ribs-Tips-Chicken And Much More 
Carry-out/Delivery Available 1/2 mile away from campus come In and enjoy a taste of Mo' Better Ribs & More Plus $ .50 off any purchase with this ad! 
~~~ 
American Red Cross 

-

The Observer Thursday, February 13, 1992
page 12 

Schmidt wins strength and conditioning coach award 
Bv DAN PIER Sports Writer 
The finely sculpted physiques of Notre Dame athletes are very recognizable on campus. The man who helps make them that way, Jerry Schmidt, was honored last week as the premiere strength and condi­tioning coach in the college ranks for 1991. U.S.A. Sports Fitness presented Schmidt with the Emrich!Riecke/Jones Award at a banquet in Indianapolis Thursday night. 
Schmidt is in his third year of overseeing the strength pro­gram for Notre Dame. He su­pervises the Haggar Fitness 
Random 
continued from page 16 
In the U. S. team's pre­Olympic exhibition games against NHL teams, Team Canada and whatever you want to call the Soviet/Russian/Commonwealth of Independent States/Unified team, LeBlanc posted a me­diocre 3.73 goals against aver­age. 
There is the possibility that LeBlanc is simply in a groove and will continue to play over his head, much the way Craig did in 1980. If you remember, the Olympic hero was an NHL flop. 


(all For A Free 1992 Student Travel Catalog! 
Complex in Loftus Sports Center and manages the year-round weight training activities of all Irish athletes. His re­sponsibilities require a lot of hard work and expertise, but Schmidt is quick to credit others for the success of his program. 
"The athletes really want to get better here (at Notre Dame)," said Schmidt. "They come in here and work hard ev­ery day, even though it's not fun. Without their hard work my program wouldn't be where it's at." 
Schmidt does the bulk of his work with the football team, and he cites head coach Lou 
Even if this is the case, a medal-winning performance would still be a lot to ask of the 
U. S. team. Going into Albertville, many people ques­tioned the American defense, and these questions still have not been answered, despite the shutout of Germany. 
In that game, the Germans outshot Team USA 46-27. If the Germans can get 46 shots on goal, it is scary to think what will happen against more expe­
rienced, more disciplined teams Holtz as well as the athletes. 
"I could have the best pro­gram in the world, but if I don't have the support of the head coach, it won't work," Schmidt explained. "Coach Holtz reall}' supports the program. He has' also taught me a lot in the areas of coaching, motivation, and handling athletes." 
Schmidt says he became in­terested in strength and condi­tioning in high school, when his training helped him as an ath-Jete. He wants Notre Dame's athletes to have the same expe­rience. 
"We only use lifting as a tool for athletes," Schmidt said. 
like Finland and Sweden, both of which the U. S. has to play in the preliminary round. 
Though the Americans could clinch a spot in the medal round of eight teams with a win over hapless Poland on Saturday, it is hard to see them getting past the first game where they will likely face Canada, Czechoslovakia or the Unified Team unless their de­fense improves in a hurry or Ray LeBlanc turns into
Superman. 

"We're not trying to make weightlifters out of them. We want to help good athletes be­come great athletes." 
Athletes have different needs according to their sport and position. The programs are de­signed individually to help each athlete reach his or her goals. 
Besides the quality of a coach's program, U.S.A. Sports Fitness considers his back­ground in strength and condi­tioning. Schmidt has extensive experience with some of the best programs in the country. He graduated from the University of Nebraska with a degree in exercise science. He worked with Nebraska's pro­gram for four years before be­coming an assistant at Oklahoma State, where he worked with 1988 Heisman Trophy winner Barry Sanders. Schmidt then joined Notre Dame's staff in 1989. 
r:::;:;::;::;::;::;::;::;;:;:;::;::;:::;:::::------------, 

Now you can live up to your middle name... Happy 21st 
Katie "Pardi" Aurelio! 

..._____________________...J 


1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
I -STUDENT SENATE :
• 

•• Candidate Meeting :
•

• 7:00PM I
•-•­
•­

Notre Dame Room •-­
• 

(LaFortune) :
•

! TONIGHT!! .~: 
= ~ • 
llrlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllii 
ND/SMC DEI.IV1:RY HOURS 4:00 -9:30 7 DAYS A WI"EK BRUNO'S NOW DELIVERS 18" PIZZA. 2 ITEM LIMIT $1.1..00 288-3320 AVAILABLE 7 DAYS A WEEK  IllALUMNI===== ~!:CLUB STUDENT BARTENDER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. PICK THEM (Jp AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 5, 1992  

-
~-----------­

Thursday, February 13, 1992 The Observer page 13 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•Anyone who purchases a ticket for this weekend's tennis match will be invited to a free clinic, put on by the men's tennis team. The clinic wil be Friday, February 14, at 6 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion.Tickets are $5 for students. •Women's Bookstore Basketball will have an organiztional meeting today. Anyone interested in commissioner or assistant commissioner positions is welcome to attend and should call 287­9548 for information on time and place. •The Shick Super Hoops 3-on-3 basketball tournament for SMC students will take place Saturday, February 15. The registration deadline is today at 5 p.m. Winners will receive t­shirts, sports bags and qualify for the Indiana State tourney. For more information call 284-5548. •Attention ND/SMC Sailing team and anyone who likes to sail: There will be a mandatory meeting Monday, February 17, at 8:15 p.m. in room 204 O'Shaugnessy. Everyone is welcome to attend, including freshmen. •Fellowship of Christian Athletes will meet tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Farley. Newcomers are welcome.  
Reduce THANK YOU! Reuse Recycle  


• 
Glasses in 1-3 hourso..EVERYDAY! 

• 
Best prices...EVERYDAY! 

• 
Best select:ion...over 1500frame styles (including designer eyewear) 

• 
Our own glass and plastic laboratory to assure quality. 


aC61.B. I'Qt1ca
One 
SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA 
Anderson 
continued from page 16 
pre-season. 
"If there was a policy, why didn't they tell me about it at the beginning of the pre-season in September?" queried Anderson. "Why did they wait until January?" 
Anderson also alleged that Flecker and Dave Bose [volleyball club co-president] called him on January 26, 1992 (Super Bowl Sunday) and asked him to return as volunteer coach of the men's volleyball club. This call was received the week before the men traveled to the University of Michigan for a tournament, as Flecker and Bose had entertained hopes, alleged Bose, that Anderson would coach them at Michigan. 
Anderson further maintains that O'Leary and Kelly delayed answering Flecker and Bose for a week and a half, an allegation supported by Flecker and Bose. 
"I just don't understand why they would go back 11 years and hold something against me when I had done a proven job for five years," said Anderson. "I felt that I was discriminated against because other coaches didn't have to do the same pro­cess. 
"I felt that they had a ven­detta against me because I went to Dick Rosenthal about Art Lambert and because of the racist comments by O'Leary, which I felt were directed to­ward me. I felt the department tolerated racism." 

"After we asked Bill to come back, he went to RecSports that week [week of January 27)." said Bose. "They said 'Go to Human Resources,' which he did, and he talked to Roger Mullins there. He told Bill to go back to RecSports. They just led us on, wondering if we had a coach." 
Treatment not unusual 
Although Anderson said he did not understand why he was asked to fill out the information form after holding his position for six years, Kelly explained that the request was not unusual. 
"We were doing a self-analy­sis at that time, and we had never done that before," said Kelly. "So everybody filled out an application form." 
"I have no more comment on his application," said Kelly, when asked about the weighing of facts surrounding Anderson's coaching career and information form. 
"We had instituted a policy throughout the NVA depart­ment for formalizing applica­tion processes for all of our programs, including student of­ficials and whatever," O'Leary said. "We did evaluations. We did all the clubs across the board. 
"We [O'Leary and Kelly] read them over and sent them to Human Resources. They took care of them there. Human Resources reviewed Mr. Anderson's application and found problems with it. It [Anderson's dismissal] was a joint decision between us and them, based on facts." 
O'Leary further stated that he assumed Anderson's successor, Steve Anderson, (no relation), had filled out such a form. Mullins said that records of such forms could not be re­leased without permission from the parties in question. 
"We would have no purview since he [Bill Anderson Jr.] was a volunteer," said Mullins. "We only have purview if people are paid. The decision over whether a person is acceptable is up to the department involved. There was some check done [on Anderson] and some question did develop." 
"The purview of human re­sources is to see if the University is in compliance with labor law. Mr. Anderson is talking about an information sheet which RecSports requires all part-time and other people to complete. RecSports used us to check legal issues. Did we approve the decision they made? No." 
Mullins said the question that remains is whether Anderson's claims of racism are founded. 
"This concerns Title Seven of the Civil Rights Act. Was this person displaced because he's black? Those are the things that if we have to terminate a person at the University, we make the decision based on facts and is it going to cause a problem for the University." 
DIAL 27-ROSES 
FOR VALENTINE FLOWERS-CUT ROSES-BONSAI PLANTS ROSELAND FRUIT AND GARDEN CENTER-(ACROSS FROM RANDAU.S INN) 
27-ROSES OR 277-6737 OR 272-7760 YOU ARE OFFERID A $2.00 DISCOUNT ON THE PURCHASE OF A DOZEN ROSFS, IF AND ONLY IF, WHEN YOU ORDER YOUR ROSFS YOU TELL US HOW MANY LITTERS ARE IN THE PHRASE, "THE flGHTING IRISH OF NOTRE DAME"! 
VISA WE DELIVER 
~*****************************•
* --~~-~"~------~ *
* llhe n1ni:h Annna1 * 
~ W1n~eRP0S~ ~ 
* *
* Friday, February 21 * * [am.puS-Wide * ~ Skating Part13 ~ 
* 10:30-l;~:~k=t~ ~~~~J~A.C.C. * 
* FREEHOTC~OCOLATE!!
* • *
We «se<ve the dght to emd"' crowd wntml. 
Saturday and Sunday * * February 22-23 *
** 

* Shlllip * 
* * 
~ Cah~-rfa.!l4' to 5'ki 8tl~o-rt : 
Package includes: *
* Overnight accommodations at the Days Inn 
* o 

o Free Continental Breakfast (Sunday AMI * .ll. o Discount on Ski Rentals .ll_ IT' Two-day lift ticket IT'
o
* ONLY $65!! * 
Sign-ups for the Caberfae Ski Trip 
* 

wilf·be Feb. 12-14 in Ihe S.U.B. Office (6-7 p;-.,1)_ 
* *
.lL_ •riJIII',,rmcnt ~at the time of sign up. 
7\ Anytime afterwards, please sign up ,,t the* *
* 

Student Government Receptionist's Desk (BARB). 
~ "'"'""&:'"'"''"' ~ 
* * ­
4121 So Michigan 5327 Grape Road 

" ~ " 
(U.S. 31 South) (1 /2 Mi. S. of University Park Mall) 

....______2_9_1-_92_0_0____
27_7_--8_12_1_____. *'*****************************. 
-d 
page 14 The Observer Thursday, February 13, 1992 
SMC hoops after third straight 
Special to The Observer 
The finals of the 62nd annual Bengal Mission Bouts, the University of Notre Dame box­ing club's yearly tournament for charity, return to the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center arena at 8:00 p.m. on Saturday, February 29, 1992 after an eight-year absence from that facility. 
Since 1984 the Bengal Bouts have been staged either at Stepan Center or the Joyce Center fieldhouse on campus. And again in 1992, the quarterfinal and semifinal rounds set for Sunday, February 23 and Wednesday, February 26, respectively, will be held in the JACC fieldhouse. 
But, for the first time since 1983, the Bengal finals-consistently sold out in recent years with crowds in 

by THORNTON WILDER Directed by Mark Pilkinton 
Wednesday Feb. 19, 8:10pm Washington Hall Thursday Feb. 20,8:10 pm Reserved seats: $7 Friday Feb. 21, 8:10 pm 
Student and senior citizen discounts
Saturday Feb. 22, 8:10 pm 
are available for Wednesday,Sunday Feb. 23, 3:10pm Thursday and Sunday performances. 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa Orders: call 239-8128 
tickets: ND/SMC* $J2 Public $JB 

-
*ID re9uired limit 4 t1x per ID 
Bengal Bouts to be held in Joyce ACC arena 
excess of 3,000 fans-are slated for the Joyce Center's main arena. 
For the first time in the his­tory of the Bengals, two differ­ent boxers-Mike Trainor and Kerry Wate-will have opportunities to become four­time champions. 
Trainor, a senior from Leominster, Mass., competed a year ago in the 170-pound classification. Wate, a senior from Auburn, Wash., representing Grace Hall, took the 165-pound title in 1991. 
More than 80 boxers overall are expected to compete among 10 weight classes. 
The Bengal Bouts, begun in 1931 and organized for many years by Dominick J. "Nappy" Napolitano, have raised more than $300,000 over the years to benefit the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. 
Observer File Photo/ David Lee 
The Bengal. Bo~ts will be held in the Joyce ACC arena this year. This w1ll be the f1rst t1me they have been held there in eight years. 


Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 
By CHRIS BACON Sports Writer 
Riding high on a two-game win streak, the Saint Mary's basketball team (5-8) hits the road tonight, traveling to Grace College. 
Although a two game win streak does not seem like much to most, for the Belles, it is their first winning streak of the season, and one they would like to stretch at Grace. 
"I think our biggest thing is we're looking for our third win in a row," explained senior forward Catherine Restovich. 
The Belles defeated Grace in their last two matchups. 1\vo years ago, the Belles squeaked past their hosts 61-59. Last season, the Belles trounced their visitors 84-62. The Belles are hoping to keep that string alive tonight. 
"Grace is usually pretty tough. They often call it the ri­val of the religions," explained senior forward Janet Libbing. "I think we won last year, and the year before that we went there and barely won." 
"Grace is one of the strongest NAIA teams in Indiana," added Belles coach Don Cromer. "We're going to have to do the things that we are good at, and that is run." 
The Belles have struggled this season with their fast-break. But as Cromer explained, prac­ticing the team's new motto of "run, gun and have fun" is pay­ing ofT. 
~ 
My Girl, PG 5:00, 7:30, 9:45 Father of the Bride, PG 
4:Jo. 7:00,9:15 Freejack, R 4:45,7:15,9:30 ../ 

"We had a real good practice Monday. The girls looked real sharp. I think the girls are at a point where they've realized we've got to run." he com­mented. 
The Belles have had plenty of opportunity to rest and prepare for tonight's trip to Warsaw. Saint Mary's matchup against the 15th-ranked University of Wisconsin-Oshkosh (14-4) last Saturday was cancelled due to weather. The Belles last game was 10 days ago against Bethel College, when the Belles strug­gled to defeat the visiting Lady Pilots, 78-75. 
As the Belles look for their third straight win tonight, they will be led by Libbing and her sidekick Catherine Restovich. The two forwards lead the Belles in scoring this season, each scoring over 200 points this season. Libbing also leads the Belles in rebounding. 
"Janet gives you 100 per­cent," Cromer explained. "She can hit the three point, she can drive. She can get the team go­ing when it's down." 
The Belles will return home Saturday to host Beloit College. 

Cinema at the Snlte 
Friday and Saturday 6:00 9:15 
.._________________________-J 


LegendsTennis 
lOth-Ranked Notre Dame vs. The Legends of Tennis 
Hank Pfister 
• Two-time French Open Doubles Champ • 
John Lloyd 
• Wimbledon & French Open Mixed Doubles Champ • 
Peter Fleming 
• 4 Wimbledon & 3 U.S. Open Titles • 
Gene Mayer 
• U.S. Davis Cup Member • 
Colin Dibley 
• 17 Grand Prix Doubles Titles • 
February 15 •• 1:30 p.m. Eck Tennis Pavilion University of Notre Dame 
Tickets: $25 Courtside, $7 Adult (Gen. Adm.) , $5 Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Students & Youth under 16 Call (219) 239· 7356 for Tickets 
b­
Thursday, February 13, 1992 The Observer page 15 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPEWIIER JAY HOSLER 


I I(NOIIJ, BIJT 1'10~ OFTEN 
1>0 THe L.AMf: G\l'fS ON 
1lllS CArf\PO!:> EVER 1\SK 
US olll? BESIDES, HANI<'S SWE~, HAS No VIS18L6 
Sc.<H~S 

To PICK ME: CoNVERTIBLE TDNI61ft­


CROSSWORD LECTURES 

©Edward Julius Collegiate CW8805 
ACROSS 

"Beat it!" 34 Jazz pianist Tatum 
6 Sticks together 35 Shanty 12 Ill ness symptom 36 Glitter 14 Biblical mountain 40 Choose 15 Labor 43 Ad­16 Aircraft landing 44 Actor Peter -­
aid 
46 Unit of resistance 18 Engages 48 Soviet sea 
19 Former Middle 50 ForaysEast initials 
51 Prefix: new 

21 See 52-Across 52 With 21-Across,22 Former basketball Calif. college townleague 53-soup23 Archie Bunker, for 54 Saying what's on one one's mind 
25 Accordingly 56 The Three ­
26 Calendar abbrevi­59 Innocence 
ation 
61 Make certain 

27 Places 62 Formally withdraw29 Was corrosive 63 Considered
30 Calm 
64 "Nothin~ could be

32 Rushed violently 
SUB EXECUTIVE BOARD APPLICATIONS 

Applications can be picked up at the Student Government receptlonlst"s desk (BAR B) and they are due by 
February 21, 1992 

Interviews are February 27 (Sign up ror an lntervktw when you turn In your application) 
The positions indude: 
Board Manager Director of Marketing Director of Programming Director of Relations 
33 Path (abbr.) 36 Hits 37 Plundered 38 Marine mollusk 39 Passed away, as 
time 40 Certain automobiles 41 Acknowledge defeat 42 College major 45 Golf ball's position 47 Beauty mark 49 -change 54 Veni, vidi,­55 Item for Wolfgang 
Puck 57 Pas tage stamp 
ingredient 58 Sooner than 60 World War I group 
DOWN 
1 Penmen 2 Cary Grant movie 3 Split 4 Seward's folly 
(abbr.) 5 Roman 1051 6 Guard units 7 Exist 8 F!'ivolous -­9 Pay for 
10 College in Indiana 11 Act 13 Artificial channel 15 Defrost 17 -out (defeated) 20-Khan 23 Soft drink manu­facturer 24 Restraining lines 27 Songbirds 28 Human beings 31 To 


MARCH&-15 7NIGHTS AT "!l-iE RAMADA INN 
FOR$199!! 
(BUS TRANSPORTATION INClUDED! 
Conlacllhe Secnllly h the Sludent Govemmart Olllce, 2nd Floor LIFollln Sludent Cenlar 
a 
CALL 239-7668 
DEADLINE FOR SIGN-UPS 1S FEBRUARY 14. 
(A $75 DEPOSIT IS REQUIRED AT SIGN-UPS) 

Thursday 

4:15p.m. Paul and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholars Series: Property Taxes Under Siege, "Housing Markets as We Approach the 21st Century," by James Follain, Syracuse University. Auditorium, Hesburgh library. Sponsored by Program of liberal Studies and College of Arts and Letters. 
4:15p.m. Lecture: "The Canada-Quebec Dilemma in a Changing World," Louis Sabourin, guest scholar. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 
8 p.m. Lecture, "The Dead Sea Scroll and Ancient Texts and Modern Controversies," Eugene Ulrich and James Van DerKam. Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Department of Theology. 
Friday 

12:15 p.m. Friday Forum at the Center for Social Concerns. Theme: Sesquicentennial Year Notre Dame and the Social and Ethical Issues of an Interdependent and Technological World. "The Real World Order," Professor John Robinson. Room 124, Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. 
MENU 

Notre Dame 
Italian Grilled Chicken Breast Veal Parmesan 
Saint Mary's 
Southern Fried Chicken Baked Lasagna Vegetarian Chow Mein Deli Bar 
GHOST Thursday, February 13 8 PM & 10:30 PM 
Cushtna Auditorium S2 Admission 
N~;,z 

Campus Band Competition 
Saturday.March 21 Ste]Jan Center 
Sign up your campus bands NOW!! Leave information with BARB in the Student Government Office (2nd Floor of LaFortune) 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Sports 
page 16 Thursday, February 13, 1992 
the 

By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Editor 
One day after a former volun­
teer coach qtwstioned his dis­
missal and alleged that the 
Notre DamP athletic depart­
ment tolerates racist attitudes, 
dPtails of thP mattf•r are be­
eorning dParer. 
Even so, rontradietory com­
ments from University officials 
have left the story of former 
mpn's vollevball club coach Bill 
AmiPrson Jr. unresolved. 
AmiPrson was dismissed from 
his unpaid, volunteer eoaehing 
position in tlw spring sPmester 
of 191J I aftPr the Uniwrsity ac­
euspd him of falsifying infor­
mation on an information form 
he was nut asked to fill out until 
six yPars after starting the job. 
Thn event in question-an al­
leged fplony in 1<JR I that 
Anderson said was an error 
whieh has been legally ex­
punged-was supposedly 
grounds for his dismissal after 
a University records cheek un­
covnrcd thP incident. 
The dismissal came after he 
Jed the Irish to a 13th place fin­
ish in the NCAA dub division 
national tournament in 1990. 
AndPrson was a two-time eoach 
of the year in the Midwest 
Intercollegiate Volleyball 
Association IMIVAl. 
Yet a recorded felony, accord­ing to Hoger Mullins. director of Human Resources, is not necessarily grounds for dis­missal or for the University to not hire a person, depending on the position involved. 
"There is a requirement that if a person has committed a felony they can't have contact with students," said Mullins. 
Mullins, however. was unsure whether the requirement about felons having contact with stu­dents was an Indiana state law, a federal law or merely a Notre Dame rule. 
"I'm not familiar with it," said Mullins. "but RecSports says it's the law." 
Rich O'Leary, associate direc­tor for RecSports, stated that Mullins would be the authority on such regulations. 
"I think that Human Resources could answer that question," said O'Leary. "There is a policy about who can be in contact with students. Background checks are a de­termining factor to a certain level, that we will not hire someone to be a professor or in 
contact with or in charge of 
students with a felony." 
At any rate, the statements 
made by Mullins appear incon­
gruous with the statements 
made by O'Leary and Thomas 
Kelly, assistant director of 
HeeSports, who have main­
tained that the decision to ask 
Anderson to cease serving as 
volunteer coach was made by 
themselves in conjunction with 
Human Resources. 
Claims of racial motivation 
In the midst of the confusion. 
Anderson has claimed that the 
dismissal was racially moti­
vated. 
lie said he approached 
Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal 
sometime between August 1990 
and October 1990 to discuss 
alleged racist statements and 
practices of then women's 
volleyball coach Art Lambert. 
Anderson maintains that in 
January 1991 he was asked not 
to return as a coach of the 
men's club volleyball team be­
cause he was viewed as a trou­
blemaker. 
Anderson further alleges that 
he was accused of possessing a 
key ring with keys to Joyce ACC 
offices and of being cohorts 
with a ring of campus thieves. 
Even after the volleyball team requested that Anderson return as coach last week, the athletic department denied his rein­statement. 
Confusion continues to sur­round the circumstances of a year ago, when Anderson al­leges that O'Leary told him that the University did not want him to continue as a volunteer coach. 
"He [Anderson] understands completely the situation," said O'Leary. "He made no argu­ment when I first brought the matter to his attention. I prob­ably told Bill that it was my un­derstanding that there were different categories of employ­ment based on records." 
Anderson, howeveF, maintains that O'Leary was more specific. 
"Rich O'Leary told Mike Flecker [volleyball club co­president] to tell me that 'Bill knows why he can't come back, and I don't know why. 
"Mr. O'Leary used the words 'maintenance person' and 'groundskeeper' to talk about positions where I wouldn't have contact with the students," said Anderson. "I took it to mean that I wasn't good enough to coach, but I was good enough to 

Irish women take on Evansville 
With just seven games left in the regular season, the Notre Dame women's basketball team looks to salvage its sinking ship 
MCC 
The first step for the Irish will be hosting MCC rival Evansville (10-10, 3-4) tonight at 7:30p.m. 
critical time for Notre Dame (6-14, 3-4), which is currently in the midst of a three-game losing streak. If the Irish harbor any hopes of mak­ing the NCAA Tournament, this is the time for them to make 
This drama is being played out against the backdrop of charges printed by Chicago Sun-Times writer Toni Ginetti which allege that Irish Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal intends to fire Notre Dame coach Muffet 
cut the grass." 
O'Leary denied having used 
the words 'maintenance person' 
or 'groundskeeper.' Yet it was 
just this alleged use of words, 
maintains Anderson, which led 
him to believe that he was dis­
missed for racial reasons. 
Anderson further cited his 
mention of Lambert's alleged 
racist attitudes and practices as 
reason the athletic department 
would have to remove him. 
Because he was dismissed, 
alleges Anderson, the athletic 
department has condonPd 
racism. 
Chronology of events 
According to Anderson. O'Leary told him that the dis­missal was the result of a dis­crepancy on his information form. Although O'Leary and Kelly, and hence Anderson, have referred to the form in question as an application, Mullins has stated that it was likely an information form used by ReeSports. There was no application made because Anderson was not applying for a paid position. 
"He told me that I had been 
charged with a felony and that 
the charge was robbery," said 
Anderson. "I said it never hap­
pened. Then and there I ex­
plained the whole Cincinnati 
thing." 
Anderson said he was in­formed that there was another man with his name in Cincinnati, and that a letter with an incorrect social security number on it indicated that the other Bill Anderson Jr. may have been involved in the confusion. 
Anderson said Cincinnati offi­cials advised him to go before a judge to have his record ex­punged and the matter cleared. 
"I gave copies of all of this to Jim Frame [then director of Human Resources]. I had my record expunged a month and a half after that-on April 26, 1991. Then they [Notre Dame] said later, after I had explained the mix-up in Ohio and gotten my papers together, that I had falsified the application [information form]. 
It was in January 1991, claims Anderson, that O'Leary mentioned the alleged discrep­ancy to him. Anderson said he was confused by the affair be­cause he had been allowed to coach the team since the fall 
see ANDERSON I page 13 

McGraw and replacP her with the current women's coach at Illinois State. Rosenthal and McGraw have denied the allegations. 
The Irish and the Aces will meet twice in the next 11 days as Notre Dame faces five con­ference opponents in a row as it seeks to build momentum to­
Notre Dame especially needs production from senior Comalita Haysbert ( 11.5 ppg, 
5.0 rpg). Haysbert, who had averaged 16.5 points in ND's last four games and earning MCC Player of the Week honors two weeks ago, scored just three points against DePaul. 
ward the MCC tourney to be "We need Comalita to score," held in Cincinnati, Ohio. The said Irish coach Muffet McGraw winner of the tournament re­after Tuesday's loss. "We're ceives an automatic bid into the coming off a bunch of games NCAA's. where she's scoring, but it just wasn't there tonight." 
However, if the Irish wants to The Aces are led by 6-foot-4 make a move, they will need a junior Christy Greis (14.1 ppg, more balanced effort than they 14.1 rpg, 2.8 blocks). the na­received in Tuesday's 62-49 loss tion's leading rebounder and to DePaul. Of their 49 points, 33 eighth leading shut blocker. came from two players: senior Margaret Nowlin (16.8 ppg, 9.4 Evansville has lost two rpg) and freshman Michelle straight coming into tonight's Marciniak (13.4 ppg, 3.6 rpg). game and three of its last four. The rest of the team went a including a 76-67 defeat at combined 3-of-19 against the home against Butler last Blue Demons. Saturday evening. 
The Observer/ Marguerite Schropp The Saint Mary's basketball team, shown here in action against Northeastern, have won two straight games. See story on page 14. 
Do not expect a miracle from U.S. Hockey Team 
Do you believe in miracles? 
Not this year. Despite the United States Olympic Hockey Team's 2-0 start, do not expect a repeat of the 1980 Miracle on Ice in Lake Placid when goaltender Jim Craig and captain Mike Eruzione led the the 
U. S. to an emotional 4-3 upset of the Soviet Union and the gold medal. 
However. that was 12 years ago. Mike Scrudato 
In the two Winter Olympics since Random Thoughts 
then the United States has not lived 
up to lofty expectations, including 
a seventh place finish in the 1988 Calgary Games when the team was coached by this year's coach 
Dave Peterson. 

The 1992 team was not expected to do much in Albertville, but its 6-3 win over Italy and 2-0 shutout of Germany have rekindled memories of 1980 and raised the hopes of many, especially those at CBS Sports who are hoping for better ratings. 
These memories have led to unfair comparisons to the gold medal winners, especially between goaltenders. Current goalie Ray LeBlanc recorded the first shutout by an American since 1964 with a 46 save performance versus Germany on Tuesday. 
However, one game does not win a gold. Jim Craig played brilliantly throughout the entire competition, turning away tra­ditional powers such as the Soviet Union and Sweden, who the Americans defeated to clinch the gold. 
LeBlanc, a 27 year old, career minor-leaguer, has yet to show he can maintain the spectacular level of play for a sustained pe­riod of time. Though he has played well, he has done so against two weak teams. Italy and Germany have a combined record of 0-4 thus far. 
see RANDOM I page 12 






