-------~--------_.... 
t-./' 
'--1/ .v 
! ~ I I 
)
.' 
server 

VOL. XXV. NO. 4 THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 1992 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Cablevision installed in dormitories 
By DAVID KINNEY 
News Editor 
Cable is being installed in all dormitory common rooms and rector's rooms during the next few weeks, according to William Kirk, vice president for Resident Life. 
"I see it as an improvement to the campus," Kirk said. "It is a positive that it is in the com­mon areas of the dorms." 
Cable was installed by Heritage Cablevision into all classroom buildings this sum­mer for academic program­ming, so the University was able to connect it to the dormi­tories on a limited basis, he said. 
"It is a great idea," said Sister Josef Riordan, rector of Walsh Hall. "The students are de­lighted." 
The University has "no inten­tion" to expand the service to all dorm rooms, because it would be too expensive and the service is available to all stu­dents living on campus in their hall's common rooms. 
He added that he was not sure that installing the service in all dorm rooms "would be a good addition." 
Kirk pointed out that it is against the law to pirate the cable signals from the common rooms. 

The Observer/Pat McHugh 
Watch out below 
Freshmen from Dillion Hall are doused with water in the annual dunking and scavenger hunt Wednesday. 


SMC assists handicapped student 
By LAURA FERGUSON News Writer 
Years of gradual renovation and a quick response to a summer tragedy have made a Saint Mary's student's tempo­rary confinement to a wheelchair more manageable. 
Junior Tricia Wallace suffered extensive leg and arm injuries from a drunk driver this sum­mer. She is undergoing physical therapy at Angela Athletic Facility and the Regina indoor pool and could be walking as early as October. 
Existing curb ramps and a new buzzer system at the en­trance to the Cushwa-Leighton Library have made mobility easier for Wallace, who is living in the basement of Holy Cross with access to a restroom and the Health Services office. 
"Saint Mary's couldn't have been any better," Wallace said. "Although I can't go anywhere by myself I can always find as­sistance." 
Automatic door openers on some campus buildings are in the works, according to John Marshall, superintendent of Buildings and Grounds. 
"We are doing a constant survey of all buildings on the Saint Mary's campus for future planning to make it more con­venient for handicapped stu­dents," said Marshall. 
"We have found that making the alterations to the facilities is easiest and most cost effective during the summer when major repairs are being done on campus." 
Marshall said the improve­ments have been a gradual summer occurrence that com­ply with the American Disability Act requiring structural reno­vations to include making build­ings handicapped-accessible. 
Wallace is undergoing physi­cal therapy at Angela Athletic 
see SMC/page 4 


ND senior jailed for hit-and-run 
By JULIE BARRETT Assistant News Editor 
Louis Flores, a Notre Dame senior, was sentenced Monday to 60 days in jail for leaving the scene of a serious traffic accident in which he struck and injured two Saint Mary's students last February, according to Sgt. Charlie Feirrell of the St. Joseph's County Police Department. 
Flores, who pleaded guilty to the charge, will spend the next 30 weekends in the St. Joseph County Jail and perform 500 hours of community service, Feirrell said. He remains a full-time student at Notre Dame. 
"The fact that Flores did come forward and pleaded guilty to the charges acted in his favor," Feirrell added. Flores could have faced up to one year in jail for the crime. 
The incident occurred early Feb. 16. when then sophomores Elizabeth Joyce and Cara McCourt were walking on Ivy Road near Turtle Creek apartments. Police said Flores, driving his roommate's car, struck the women at a high speed, sending them off the side of the road. 
McCourt received a broken lumbar spine and contused kidney. Joyce was hospitalized with a broken neck and skull fractures. Flores went to the police after the incident was publicized by the media. 
"The police were close to finding Flores when he came forward and pleaded guilty," Feirrell said. "We were searching parking lot by parking lot for the car and had received tips from anonymous callers about the accident." 
Staff changes made in SMC Student Affairs 
By KIM ST. CLAIR News Writer 
Several personnel changes have been made this year in the Department of Student Affairs at Saint Mary's. 
Sherri Crahen is the new di­rector of Residence Life and Housing. Crahen has a masters degree in Counselor Education from Pennsylvania State University and was previously the Assistant Director of Housing at California State University at Fresno. 
Georgeanna Rosenbush, who has been at Saint Mary's since 1983, was promoted to the act­ing director of Student Activities. 
She said she hopes to try new ideas, as well as continue im­proving last year's successful ones such as Spes Unica Resource and Volunteer (SURV) Center and Clarissa Dalloway's Coffee House. 
"We need to put students back in student activities, espe­cially through Student Activities Board committees," Rosenbush said. 
Other changes include new resident directors in Holy Cross and McCandless Halls. 
Patricia Warfield is the new resident director in Holy Cross. She received a Master's degree 
in  Counseling  from  the  
University  of  Wisconsin­ 
Oshkosh.  

McCandless' new resident di­rector is Colleen McKenna. McKenna has a Master's degree in English from Kent State and Student Personnel from Slippery Rock University. 
The final change of staff in Saint Mary's Student Affairs is Marlene Johnson's promotion from resident director in Le Man<> Hall to assistant director of student activities. 

Hurricane Andrew strikes Louisiana; Florida recovers 
FRANKLIN, La. (AP) ­Hurricane Andrew threw its deadly fury into the heart of Louisiana, striking only a glanc­ing blow at New Orleans before heading deep into Cajun coun­try today. It weakened as it moved inland but still pounded towns and fields with hurri­cane-force wind. 
The storm, already labeled the costliest natural disaster in U.S. history with damage put at more than $15 billion, added plenty to the bill it ran up earlier this week in Florida and the Bahamas. 
"We're really in bad shape," Mayor Emmett Hardaway of Berwick said this morning after Andrew moved through. ''I'd venture to say this is the worst damage Berwick has ever seen in a hurricane." 
"It's a lot worse than I though it would be." 
There were no immediate 

• Florida survives/page 6 reports of deaths in Louisiana, but the toll in Florida, which Evacuees from the south­Andrew raked Monday, rose to 
central Louisiana town, 15 today. There were also three population 4,000, are being told deaths confirmed in the not to return home because Bahamas. "we've had such damage here, As Andrew moved inland, it 
.there's nothing to come back to flooded roads, uprooted trees, right now," Hardaway said. tore off huge limbs and started 
... . OKLA. ; ARK. ..•/..... /E.~~::: _{.<.:;::·~·~6:··· ... 
..... , ...... ·· (.. / MISS.{ ALA. ·~ '·\ 
TEXAS :, LA. . GA. ··. ~ / New Qrleans ~~···1· ~ .. Graiid.Tsle · ..... · 
3P.M. , :·J FLA
• _,... ~..._:_, d · •t • ··.. . .. 

Galveston / ·H·j Qkfi1 . ·. 11 P.M.I I·. '>..., 8 A.M. 3 P.M... 
f M 2PM '~~·,._,,41( ,..........,,£,.I M1ami.......,w-y.-:;-:-: .. ·:; . ··•···· .
'f I . . 11 A M. . £···~-·-··f • · 
GU/j o ex co I "I 7 .•..· :·, '..":-: • 
.;.· ~.... ") ;._ . . 
~~~~~y~~~m. EDT 11 P.M. 5 P.M. BAH.AMAS '" · · • · 
s:~~s: -~~-;co ''t2:;-':~:~it ~~;:~,!~~2;~ 
."AP 
,. 
,.. ... ··.·.·: . .. . . . ·. · . y Tropical Storm · f Hurricane Andrew 
30° 
Atlantic Ocean 
·.· ..• ·· 
L'WI'S1 L'W!!J1 'W.r!z.fi 12 A.M. 5 P.M. . . 5t'M. 
.,.:I'··,, ~~--.•.._.--~ 

power lines popping throughout the region. A tornado spun off by· the storm ripped through a New Orleans suburb, and 30 people were reported injured. 
Several hundred homes were inundated in coastal Terrebonne Parish, said sheriff's Lt. Morris Duplantis. Residents had been evacuated as Andrew approached. 
To the north, a tugboat was sinking in the Mississippi River at St. Francisville, north of Baton Rouge, and a ferry was dispatched to rescue six crew members who were in the water, police said. 
The water in the river is so rough that "they say it looks like the Gulf of Mexico in the Mississippi River," said state police spokesman Capt. Ronnie Jones. 
Tens of thousands of people rode out the storm in shelters and boarded-up homes. But shelters were not all unscathed. 
"This house is falling apart around me," said Ken Perry, manager of an airport in Patterson, 60 miles west of New Orleans. ''I'm standing in water right now in the house, and we're 10 feet above sea level." 
A high school in Patterson where 120 people took refuge lost its roof to the wind, said Sheriff Huey Bourgeois of St. Mary Parish. He said no one was hurt. 
The hurricane·s leading edge came ashore about 11 p.m. CDT and scraped along Louisiana's coast, a marshy area dotted with cypress trees, Spanish moss and fields of sugar cane. The storm center came ashore four hours later, 55 miles south­southeast of Lafayette. 
In Franklin, a town of 22,000 
see HURRICANE/page 6 

page 2 Thursday, Augst 27, 1992
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Bush's 'values' are worthless to real families 
It's so weird that this year, which just happens to be an election year, politicians are talking all about "family values." (This began, again. coincidentally, with President Bush's "non-Paul Pearson political" speech at our Associate News very own commencement Editor in May.) 
Very few people will argue with them that government should adhere to some sort of value system. The question, it seems, is how to translate "family values." Just what do they mean? 
Let's see if their family values would fit into the administration of the average, mainstream, ordinary All-American family (of which George Bush, the All-American millionaire, claims to be a member). 

• Trustworthiness. No family would be able to function if members lied to each other on a regular basis. However, Bush has been caught lying to the American public more than once. Aside from the now-infamous "No new taxes" (a promise to fight Congress), Bush has told the general public over and over again that Kuwait is now liberated. 
I hate to break this to you, George, but giving the country from one absolute dictator (Saddam Hussein) to another absolute dictator (the emir of Kuwait) doesn't qualify as "liberating." 
• Openness. With the exception of Santa Claus and the like, families do not do things behind each other's backs. However, Danny "I joined the National Guard because I flunked the Army's spelling test" Quayle, used his Council o Competitiveness to eliminate the rule in the Clean Air Act that forces companies to tell the public when they plan to increase its production of pollutants. 
If Quayle is so family-value-oriented, why is this the first time many people are learning this? 
• 
The "being there" factor. A parent who is never there for the children is generally considered a bad parent. Yet, a president who pours all his energy into foreign policy, and breaks out a domestic policy once every four years, is considered a great president? Is there something I'm missing here? 

On that note, Bush recently reiterated the fact that he has a health care plan that will solve America's medical crisis, but he still refuses to reveal it. Must be one of those papers that got shredded along with all that unpleasant Iran­contra stuff. 

• 
Compassion. Family members, almost by definition, care for and love each other. Bush has, over the past twelve years, shown his compassion for a lot of people, like Lee Iacocca, oil tycoons and other American billionaires (except, of course, for Ross Perot, but that's another story). 


Unfortunately, Mr. President, those people already have people who are concerned about what happens to them. They're not the ones who need the government to fill that role. 
In all seriousness, just what kind of family would display the sort of "family values" that Bush, Quayle and their buddies have shown over the past four years? 
Perhaps the Addams family. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff Sports Production 
Mike Scrudato Kathy Fong Jonathon Jensen Cheryl Moser 
Viewpoint News 

Guy Loranger Julie Barrett Jennifer Habrych 
Business Systems 

Andy Runkle Harry Zenbillas 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
FORECAST 
Forecast for noon, Thursday, August 27 


Mostly cloudy and rainy today. Highs in 
the mid 70s. Rainy 
and cooler tonight 
lows in the 60s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City H L 
Anchorage 57 49 
Athens 95 75 
Atlanta 85 70 
Bogota 64 48 
Boston 89 66 
Cairo 93 73 
Charlene 86 68 
Chicago 89 69 
Cleveland 86 70 
Dallas 94 71 
Detroit 86 67 
Indianapolis 86 67 
Jerusalem 86 66 
London 72 61 
Los Angeles 82 67 
Madrid 93 66 
Minneapolis 61 57 
Moscow 61 50 
Nashville 90 69 
New York 91 69 
Paris 79 64 
Philadelphia 87 67
• 'f 'f 'f 

Rome 93 68
COLD WARM STATIONARY © 1992 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Seanle 83 50 South Bend 89 85
Pressure 

Tokyo 93 81 Washington, D.C. 90 69
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
L Associaied Press 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
• Conference focuses on Serbia 

LONDON -Warring parties in Bosnia-Herzegovina gathered for a new round of talks to try to end fighting that has killed thousands, after a European mediator resigned from what he described as a frustrating task. At the three-day international conference beginning today, the U.S. delegation led by Acting Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger was seeking to ensure Serbs do not to keep the territory they gained in their war with Bosnia's Croats and Muslims.Eagleburger, a former ambassador to Yugoslavia, also planned to press for a tightening of U.N. sanctions against Serbian­dominated Yugoslavia for backing the Serbs in Bosnia, 
U.S. sources said. 

• U.N. wants to send troops to Somalia MOGADISHU, Somalia-The U.N. secretary-general wants to send up to 3,500 armed observers to help pro­tect the emergency effort to feed Somalia, where the 
Red Cross says 11 of its workers were killed last week. Meanwhile, equipment problems, leaking cooking oil containers and a mass of storks on a runway Tuesday slowed the U.S. airlift in neighboring Kenya, where thousands of Somali refugees and Kenyans are in need of food. The United States, which has been delivering food to northern Kenya since Friday. plans to start airlifting food this week into Somalia. Germany began its own airlift Tuesday. The aid campaign has been difficult in a country where the drought sweeping southern Africa and civil war have combined to create chaos. 
OF INTEREST 

• 
Attention Freshman Scholars do not forget about the meeting tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. It will be brief, but important, so please at­tend. 

• 
Copies of Du Lac are available in the Office of Residence Life in the Administration Building room 315 . The Student Handbook, a Notre Dame resource booklet, is also available on a limited basis. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTEHDAY,S THADING August 26 
VOLUME IN SIIAHES  NYSEii\DEX  
+0.13 to 226,47  
210.925.070  S&P CO~POSITE  


413.51 +1.90 

DOW JONES li\DUSTHIALS 3.24b.llt +14.59 
GOLD 
+2.30 to $337.20 
SILVEH 
+S.021 to 53.727 
NATIONAL 

• Heavy smoking linked to cataracts 
CHICAGO-People who smoke a pack or more of ci­garettes a day are twice as likely to develop cataracts, and up to one-fifth of U.S. cataract cases may be caused by smoking, according to two studies published yesterday. The studies, reported in the Journal of the American Medical Association, tracked 17,824 male 
U.S. physicians from 1982 through 1987 and 50,828 female U.S. nurses from 1980 through 1988. Among the doctors, men who smoked 20 or more cigarettes a day were 2.05 times more likely to be diagnosed with a cataract than those who never smoked. Among the nurses, women who smoked 35 or more cigarettes a day had 1.63 times the likelihood of undergoing cataract surgery as non-smokers. 
INDIANA 

Arrests may end drug ring in Indiana 
HAMMOND, Ind. -Authorities believe the arrest of 11 people il). Gary and East Chicago could cripple a heroin and cocaine ring. "This is a culmination of a long and arduous investigation conducted jointly by the FBI and Drug Enforcement Administration," said U.S. Attorney John Hoehner. Those arrested were named in a 39-count indicted returned by a federal grand jury Aug. 20, but kept sealed until Tuesday. Hoehner said the ''amount of drugs and scope of trafficking were both significant." 
• Reporters needed to write environment related stories for the Observer contact Stephen Zavestoski at 283-2016 or 239-7471. No journalism experience is re­quired; some knowledge of environmental issues would be helpful. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

• 
In 1883: The island volcano Krakatoa blew up, claiming 36,000 lives in Java and Sumatra. 

• 
In 1928: The Kellogg-Briand Pact was signed in Paris, outlawing war and providing for the peaceful settlement of disputes. 

• 
In 1962: The United States launched the Mariner II space probe, which flew past Venus the following December. 

• 
In 1967: Brian Epstein, manager of the Beatles; was found dead in his London flat from an apparently accidental overdose of sleeping pills. 

• 
In 1982: Rickey Henderson of the Oakland A's stole his 119th base of the season, eclipsing Lou Brock's record of 118 steals in one season. 


-------------------------------------------------------~-------~~ -------. 
Thursday, August 27, 1992
page 3 The Observer 
Bush warns
World leaders condemn Serbia for civil war 
LONDON (AP) -World leaders Serbs defiantly declared that future" for Serbs if they did not that work over the next couple Iraq ofcondemned Serbia on the former Yugoslav republic end their sieges of Sarajevo and of days and beyond," Major 
Wednesday for the war in Bosnia-Herzegovina and warned at an international peace conference that aggres­sors face economic isolation and prosecution for war crimes. 
As heavy fighting raged in Sarejevo and other parts of Bosnia, the leader of Bosnian "doesn't exist anymore." But Radovan Karadzic, who briefly walked out of the talks, offered to give up some Serb-held territory to win a peace settlement. 
Acting Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger warned of a "spectacularly bleak 
other cities held by Bosnia's Muslim-led government. 
Milan Panic, federal premier of Yugoslavia, now made up only of Serbia and Montenegro, pledged his support for peace efforts. 
Opening the largest in­ternational conference so far on said. 

Frustration with the Serbs for a war that has claimed more than 8,000 lives and created 1.2 million refugees dominated the first session of the conference, which drew officials from the United Nations, two dozen countries, and the six former 
OllYWOOD. EVERYTHING YOU'VE HEARD IS TRUE! 

"A masterpiece! One of the smartest, funnies~ most penetrating movies about moviemaking ever made a . .great big. funny film that's going to ring bells, 
IIUVOCH: SOCKS 0111' 'IE • 
throw people for loops, ll1d il general aeate the commotion of the yeaf." 
--SCephen SeMI, VANITY FAIR 

"Wickedly Funnf£' 
I'UY80Y MloGAZlH~ WOMAN 
"Hilarious and Deadly,
lne PIa~ er 
WONDERFU~~y 


SUBVERSIVE 
F 
FiNELINE 
••.this movie is nothing if not fun." 
fEATUHS 

-Oml AMen, NEWSWEDI CtMZ-1M-C.,. Alllltlob­
CtN£11-A :AT THE SN'LTE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:15 ' 9:45 
SENIORS 
Class of 93 
NORTHWESTERN ROADTRIP 
Sept. 4-5 
Only $65 
Trip includes: 
BUS TRANSPORTATION 
GAME TICKET in ND student section 
SECOND CI1Y COMEDY CLUB Ticket 
HOTEL DOWNTOWN (Michigan Ave. & Ohio St.) 
Purchase tickets now @ the LaFortune Info. Desk 
the Balkan crisis, British Prime Yugoslav republics, as well as Minister John Major called for other organizations. guarantees for the delivery of "Where does the main source humanitarian aid to Bosnia, a of evil lie?" German Foreign halt to human rights abuses Minister Klaus Kinkel asked at and respect for existing a news conference. "The borders. answer is obvious -in 
"In this room are the people Belgrade! The response to the who can stop this war, end the disintegration of former bloodshed, reach a lasting Yugoslavia, which was their settlement. I don't believe that own fault, was a ruthless war world opinion will readily aimed at creating an 'ethnically forgive anyone who impedes cleansed' greater Serbia." 
.........••......••••.....•••••••••••••...••••........••.•....•••••••..•••........... 
WELCOME WEEKEND '92 · 
THURSDAY, AUGUST 27TH 
Encino Man SB White Sox vs. Beloit Brewers 
7 pm, 9:30 pm, 12:00 am 7 pm--Coveleski Field 
Cushing Auditorium FREE 
FREE! 
Tickets at La Fortune 
-fl. l.! 

Info Desk · '~ ~_,_ ~ 
~~ 

FRIDAY. AUGUST 28TH 
Live at Stonehenge: Rockfest! 
4 pm-12:00 am 
Fieldhouse Mall (Rain Location: Stepan Center) 
Bands scheduled to appear: 
The Porkchoppers Ryan's Suitcase 
Victoria's Real Secret XYZ Affair 
Dysfunktion Acce::;s Denied Katharsis 
Free snow cones, sodas, popcorn, spin art! 
SATURDAY, AUGUST 29th 
Beach PartyatStepan Courts 
lpm-5pm WVFI live remote Tie-dyeing One ton sundae Volleyball tournament Giveaways 
SATURDAY/SUNDAY AUGUST 29th/30th 
Comedian Carrot Top as seen on MTV, Showtime Comedy Club 
Network, Evening at the lmprov 8 pm Washington Hall Tickets: $3 at the La Fortune Info Desk 
Sponsored by: Student Activities, Student Union. Board, WVFI, Classes of 1993, 1994 and 1995 : ··················································································· 
..---J •. 

Fast • Hot • Perfect 
Z7:l•II77 
Serving Notre.Dame, St. Mary's & South Bend area 
1 r---------,----------------,
-~--­

1·14'' Large S6H I 2· I4'' Large SI,ftn I 
I +Tax I T • ~ax I
I I Topping I I oppmg I I p· I p· I : IZza ~: IZza ~: 
I ~~~~~~7~~~~hp~!; ~~e:a~~upon I ~~~~~7~\~~Jt~!~ ~~~e:a~upon I 
L-•---------------1----------------~ 
no-fly zone 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) 
Baghdad newspapers today 
denounced the United States 
and its allies for their plan to 
protect Shiite Muslims by 
blocking Iraqi planes from the 
southern skies. 
President Bush officially an­
nounced the ultimatum in 
Washington and said it would 
begin in 24 hours. At the 
United Nations in New York, 
Iraqi Ambassador Abdul Al­
Amir Al-anbari was summoned 
to the French U.N. mission to 
receive a "communication" 
about the "no-fly zone" from 
the U.S., British, French and 
Russian envoys. 
"Our great people are on a 
state of alert, unified and angry 
along with their leadership and 
armed forces and are ready to 
fight the enemies and to foil 
their Zionist-imperialist 
schemes," said Al-Thawra, the 
organ of the ruling Baath party. 
The allied move comes amid 
steady Western condemnation 
of President Saddam Hussein 
over his treatment of the Shi­
ites in the southern marshlands 
and his reluctance to admit 
U.N. weapons inspectors to Iraqi ministries as required under Gulf War cease-fire reso­lutions. 
The warning tells Iraq to 
clear the skies south of the 
32nd parallel or risk attacks in 
the air. In Washington, the 
State Department said Iraq had 
essentially moved all its fixed­
wing aircraft from the south, 
although it still had some heli­
copters based there. 
In London, the British gov­
ernment said today it would 
send six warplanes Thursday to 
a base at Dhahran, Saudi Ara­
bia, to help enforce the "no-fly" 
zone. Three are Tornado GR-1 
fighter-bombers capable of 
fighting other aircraft and 
attacking ground targets and 
three are Tornado GR-lA all­
weather reconnaissance 
planes. 

Transport aircraft carrying logistic support left fol the re­gion early today, the Defense Ministry said. 
The United States has based fighters, attack planes and other aircraft in Saudi Arabia since the Gulf War and the air­craft carrier USS Independence is in the Persian Gulf. 
Western air and ground units were sent last year to carve out a safe haven for the Kurds in northern Iraq. Fears have been expressed in the region that another safe haven in southern Iraq could effec­tively partition the country. 
Syria, Egypt and Saudi Ara­bia have voiced opposition to moves that would precipitate Iraq's break-up, fearing that would heat up regional tensions as new efforts are made to end the Arab-Israeli conflict. 
However, they appeared to have been persuaded that a "no-fly zone'' would weaken and possibly eliminate Saddam, considered a long-term threat to the region's stability. 
The English-language Baghdad Observer said that "the U.S. and its allies have had a free ride for too long" in the ..ongoing move to dismember Iraq." 

Thursday, August 27, 1992
page 4 The Observer 
SMC Clinton hopes Gore will help in border states 
continued from page 1 
Facility and the Regina indoor pool. 
"We will use methods of wa­ter walking, the exercise bike, and low weights. Further strength development will fol­low," said Jo-Ann Nester, di­rector of Athletics. "Our goal is to try walking independently by October break." 
Nester and Academic Advisor Mary Connolly credit the sup­port of the student body for aiding Wallace's recovery. 
"There has been no hesitation to help on· the part of Saint Mary's," Nester said. 
"This encouragement is im­portant, but support from other students is wonderful," Mary Connolly added. "Visits and prayer lead to recovery. Their efforts are a real credit to the student body." 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) -Bill Clinton tapped running mate Al Gore's fund-raising base Wednesday, and the Democrats appealed to female voters by celebrating the anniversary of women getting voting rights and by projecting their ticket as true defenders of family values. 
Clinton and Gore, a Ten­nessee senator, raised some $1 million in Memphis and Nashville for the Democratic Party's fall war chest and deliv­ered a strong defense of their commitment to family -both in their personal lives and public service. 
They also took time to ap­pear, with their wives, on the cable TV program "Nashville Now," mixing talk about their economic ideas with jokes about their musical tastes. The program is a favorite of country music fans. For the Democrats, it was the latest in a campaign-long effort to reach voters through unorthodox media ap­pearances. 

After the show, they headed for Texas to launch another campaign bus tour, pressing their effort to wrest border and Southern states from the Re­publican electoral lock. 
As the political terrain set­tled after last week's Republi­can convention, Clinton aides said they were convinced that President Bush got little bounce out of his week in the spotlight, except to shore up his support among hard-core Republican voters. 
As a result, they said, Clinton plans no major changes in a campaign strategy that targets Bush's handling of the economy and fights back against GOP suggestions that Democrats 
• • • ALUMNI 

Seniors, Thursday is Cup Night 
Come see the rest ofyour 
class at your place. Only you can make it ''The Place To Be'' 
9-2 

Must be 21 yrs. old 
,
r -----------------­
CAMPUS DELIVERY OF 

I %e :J\[?w Yorl( Ttmes I I ONLY 30 CENTS/DAY MON ..SAT I I
I ( ) MON ..FRI .. $18.90( ) MON ..SUN .. $51.90 ( ) MON ..SAT .. $ 21.90( ) SUN ONLY .. $30.00 I
I 
I DELIVERY BEGINS MON SEPT 7 & FRI DEC 11 I (NO DELIVERY DURING FALL OR THANKSGIVING BREAKS
I I 
MAKE CHECK PAYABLE TO: BILL LANE
I I I Name _____________Phone __________ I 
I Address______________ I 
IClip & Mail to: The New York Times I I c/o Bill Lane .. Campus Rep P.O. Box 885 
I
Notre Dame In 46556..0885 
.J
~-----------------­
don't stand for traditional family values. 
The themes of the GOP gathering in Houston -includ­ing attacks on Clinton's wife, Hillary. and an anti-abortion platform plank -left them convinced the Democrats could increase their edge in support among women voters. aides said. 
The Clinton camp this week began detailed state polling as it works to refine its electoral strategy. Among areas to be studied closely are New Jersey and Texas, states where Clinton had been faring better than his campaign expected prior to the convention. 
At a sun-drenched rally in Memphis, Clinton mocked the Bush campaign's attacks on the family values issue by reading a sign in the crowd: "Ten million Americans in this country have family values but no jobs." 
Clinton urged the crowd not to let Republican attacks steer the campaign debate away from economics and the need for what he called for pro-family policies including universal health care and family leave. 
''I'm tired of excuses," Clin­ton said. "In the end, this race will be a race of hope against fear, of the future against the past, of new ideas vs. a tried and failed course." 
Gore's job before the homes­tate crowd was to boost Clin­ton's Arkansas record at a time Republicans are bashing it. 
(219) 277-7482 
-~'il~., 
":~·
.. ,,

10" Houseplants3 for $39 
\ . Fresh Cut Flower­
~:~~))(:}

Delivery Worldwide 
~.;,_7ir

Weddings& 
Special Occasions Full Service Floral , · · ~j;. lnteriorscaping & 
1 


Thursday, August 27, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Violent attacks on refugees shame many Germans 
ROSTOCK, Germany (AP) ­After Rostock residents applauded attacks on foreign­ers, Uwe Jannutsch stood in the city's picturesque central square with a sign reading "I am a Rostocker. I am ashamed." 
Many passers-by stopped off to agree with the 36-year-old art teacher. For many, the attacks calling to mind the country's painful Nazi legacy. 
But shame hasn't stopped the violence. Although the refugees whose center was attacked were bused away on Monday afternoon, skinheads and other ultra-rightists attacked again on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday nights. 
The attacks are fed by two rising streams: the flow of refugees to Germany and what authorities see as growing strength of the anti-foreigner far-right. 
The Interior Ministry said in mid-August the number of right-wing extremists rose from 32,300 in 1990 to 39,800 last year. 
It said violent acts by these people leapt from 270 to 1,483 in 1991, mostly attacks on foreigners. 
The number of refugees registered in Germany through July was 233,904, more than double the pace of 1991 when the country took in a record 256,000 people seeking asylum. That does not include more than 100,000 who came from Yugoslavia on visitors visas or on special programs to help people fleeing the civil war. 
The attacks in Rostock were aimed at a weak point in the government's make-do method of dealing with the refugees. 
Like elsewhere in the country, the refugee center in Rostock's Lichtenhagen district was overflowing. 
It was to have been emptied Sept. 1, and the people moved to a more secure facility in a nearby town. 
At the end, it housed about 200 Romanian Gypsies, an ethnic group that has long suffered heavy prejudice in Germany. 

Ulf Seemann, a 20-year-old student, said the local people did not hate foreigners, but the Gypsies were "not civilized." He said they had stolen cars, insulted women, used the lawn around the center as a public 
toilet  and  shoplifted  from  
nearby stores.  
"The  shops  here  were  

terrorized. Customers wouldn't come in," Seemann said. 
The authorities heard a flood of complaints, but could only ask for patience. 
A demonstration on Saturday against the presence of the refugee center turned violent and more clashes with police followed for three days. 
To some in east Germany, the violence was the latest in a series of setbacks to their hopes in united Germany. 
Rostock Mayor Klaus Kilimann said at a demonstration against violence on Tuesday, "I am angry, sad, and ashamed. It is almost as if we carried out our peaceful revolution three years ago for nothing." 
He said foreigners had always been welcomed in the port city, but the problem lately was a concentration of too many Gypsies-a remark that drew boos from leftists at the rally. 


They Might Be Giants 
Thursday, September 1Oth Stepan Center 
Tickets: $8 Students 
$12 Public
Club Shenanigans Georgetown ShopRing Center One mile north of campus 
On sale now 
5203 Emmons Rd 271-1727 
at LaFortune Info Desk 
SNV91NVN3HS on-e 
mJ~ U_NJON B{».RD 

If you see
I • • ALUMNI -SENIOR 

news happening, call The Observer at 239-5303 
CLIFF IS BACK! 
This Friday and Saturday 
and let us 
Come Find Out What 
know. 
You've Been Missing 
REDUCE REDUCE 
REUSE REUSE
9-2 

RECYCLE RECYCLE 
Must be 21 yrs. old 

Thank you! 
page 6 The Observer Thursday, August 27, 1992 
Hurricane Florida struggles to survive after hurricane devastation 
continued from page 1 
some 40 miles southeast of Lafayette, Bourgeois said the losses to cane farmers would be severe. 
As the storm passed near Baton Rouge, power was knocked out at the state Capitol and offices were running on emergency generators. A flash flood closed a section of Interstate 110. 
MIAMI (AP) -Dogs trained to sniff out bodies were sent into wrecked shopping centers in search of more victims of Hurricane Andrew as survivors struggled to find drinkable water and food that hadn't spoiled in the heat. na Maria Sarlat said Tuesday. 
Two days after Hurricane Andrew smashed through South Florida, leaving an estimated 50,000 people homeless, some 2 million people remained without electricity. Authorities warned that it could be weeks before water and power are completely restored. 

Fourteen people were reported dead, and the toll was expected to rise. On Tuesday, dogs were sent into the rubble of shopping centers in Cutler Ridge, a Miami suburb. 
"Some bodies are caught in the wreckage and they have 
had to be left for the time being," said Jay Eaker, a Federal Emergency Management Agency spokesman. 
Kate Hale, Dade County emergency management director, estimated damage to the region at a preliminary $15 billion to $20 billion. Her figures, if borne out, would make Andrew the costliest natural disaster in U.S. history. 
Officials feared that food rotting in Florida's August heat, polluted water and sewage backups could lead to outbreaks of salmonella and hepatitis. 
"When food gets hot, that means bacteria. And then the garbage leads to rats and vermin and disease," said Walter Livingstone, environmental administrator for the county Public Health Department. 
At 10 a.m. CDT, the center was about 25 miles west of Baton Rouge, and the storm was moving northward about 8 mph. Its top sustained winds had dropped to 7 5 mph. When it came ashore, it had winds of 140 mph and gusts of 160 mph were reported, the weather 

service said. 
I
I. 
"Loss of energy from the warm gulf waters is going to kill this thing. It will die a slow and painful death," said Roger Edwards, a meteorologist at the National Hurricane Center. 
Forecasters warned of inland flash floods, but the threat of storm surges on the coast subsided. Up to 10 inches of rain were possible. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Accent Copy Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement to ]ahnelle Harrigan by Friday, August 28. Contact Jahnelle at 239-5303 for more information. 



. .... CoNSIDElWITONS 
The Best Years of Our Life 
Since August 1st, the Huddle and the Library Concourse have become "smoke-free" environments. Earlier this summer, the old heated bus stop was knocked down and the Main Circle was expanded to ... really look like a circle. Any time soon now they will finish pushing the dirt around in front of th~ ne~ DeBartolo Building and cover that whole f1eld w1th a carpet of brand new, perfect green sod. 
One hundred new teachers have joined the faculty. Dozens of new courses have been added to the curriculum in the various colleges. New foreign study programs have been announced and are aggressively recruiting participants. 
The dining hall is up to full speed. The ATM's are spitting our cash like crazy for new books; the band and the football team have already been practicing for weeks. 
All summer long this campus was rel~tively quiet ­its lush peace oroken only by the ant1cs of hundreds of returned alumni chasing golden memories and 12 year old sports camp kids cflasi~g errant pop-fl!es and grey haired mob1le ho~e af1c1onados-chas~ng good trade-in deals on the1r not-so-old used tra1lers. 
But now the real stuff begins again. 
What makes me happy, and somehow a little bit overwhelmed, is the return of our Notre Dame and St. Mary' students. While U -Hauls are unloaded and hammers and saws build lofts, postcards from last years' graduated seniors and han~shak~s with this years' new first year students aga1n rem1nd me of how short our time together reafly is around here. 
College life is not a long term experience. The deeply important purposes of this place and the reas~n for all its beautiful facil~ties must b_e grasped rela~1vely early on in a collegiate career 1f the nchness IS to be mined and the treasure fully revealed. 
A thousand teachers, 1200 acres of campus, and a 700 million dollar endowment have all been assembled to be at the service of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, and to facilitate their growth. in wisdom and character. The teachers are dedicated and competent, the campus is peaceful and spirit­filled all the money has purchased classrooms and labs that match anything in the country. 
What it awaits now is the open minds and open hearts of our students. 
Fr. Scully is fond of saying that "this life is no dress rehearsal." What he means is that NOW is the time for us to kick in and show some passion. We won't get a second chance. What he means is that we all benefit most when we push a little bit -push ourselves and our teachers and our rectors and our friends -to make the most out of every opportunity for learning and for growth. Creativity 
and courage are some of the gifts we ought pray for and. nourish. An . openness to questions and a des1re for honest relationships are some more. 
Add a little patience and a sense of humor, and what can stop us from 

having the best year of our life? Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
Marriage Preparation Retreats at Fatima 
October 30-31, 1992 March 5-6, 1993 April 23-24, 1993 May 28-29, 1993 

Notre Dame Encounter Schedule NDE #23-0ctober 9-11 NDE #24-December 4-6 NDE #25-February 5-7 NDE #26-March 26-28 NDE #27-April 2-4 
Business 
Thursday, August 27, 1992 page 7 
Chao to lead United Way 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Peace Corps Director Elaine Chao will become the new president of United Way of America, replacing William Aramony, who was ousted amid charges of financial mismanagement. a United Way source said today. 
The source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Chao was being introduced to the organization's board at a meeting in Alexandria, Va., by ' a search committee that rec­ommended her selection. 
An official announcement was expected later in the day. 
Chao, 38, who oversees a $197 million budget at the Peace Corps, is one of the highest ranking Asian-Ameri­can officials in the Bush administration and served as a former deputy transportation secretary. She was confirmed as director of the Peace Corps in December. 
The choice of Chao for the United Way post was first re­ported in today's edition of The Wall Street Journal. 
Aramony was ousted in May amid allegations of financial mismanagement and lavish spending. New York authorities and the Internal Revenue Service are investigating allegations that nearly $3 million of United Way money was loaned to some affiliated groups in which Aramony and others had financial interests. 
The United Way rewrote its bylaws last week to give local chapters more power after revenue dropped 42 percent for the first five months as local contributors withheld their support. 
Interim President Kenneth Dam said last week that about 975 of the approximately 
1.400 local United Ways have resumed paying their 1992 dues. Most of them suspended payments due to the contro­versy surrounding operations of the national group. 
Merger approved despite hurricane destruction 
COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) -Seibels Bruce Group Inc. shareholders approved a merger with an Indiana insurance company that a day earlier canceled the deal because of Seibels' potential losses from Hurricane Andrew. 
Approximately 81 percent of Seibels Bruce's outstanding shares were voted in favor of the merger, the company said. 
The vote was taken despite Tuesday's announcement by Lincoln National Corp. of Fort Wayne, Ind. that it was with­drawing from the proposed $46.9 million merger of Seibels Bruce with its subsidiary, American States Insurance Co. 
Lincoln cited Seibels Bruce's potential exposure to damages from Andrew and said it could be a material change in the company's finances that al­lowed cancellation of the merger. 
Sterling Beale, Seibels Bruce's chairman, responded that the 
agreement  could  not  be  
terminated  and  said  the  
company's  executives  and  

lawyers decided to go ahead with the stockholders' meeting. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Orders 
to factories for durable goods 
such as cars and computers 
slumped badly in July for the 
second time in three months, 
the government said Wednes­
day, deepening pre-election 
gloom about the economy. 
The unexpectedly sharp 3.4 percent decline, bringing orders to a seasonally adjusted $119 billion, was the worst so far this year, the Commerce Department said. 
A plunge in orders for aircraft and military hardware ac­counted for much of the drop, but other key categories, in­cluding industrial machinery and primary metals such as steel, also fell. 
"This report says the econ­omy simply is going nowhere," said Allen Sinai of Boston Co. Economic Advisers Inc. "Our economy is not in recovery. It's not in full-fledged recession. It's in never-never land." 
In advance, most economists had anticipated a slight decline of less than 0.5 percent. Orders had jumped 2.8 percent in June after a 2.1 percent drop in May. 
Sinai said the earliest the na­tion could see a substantial economic upturn is in Novem­ber or December. too late to benefit President Bush. Bat­tered by voter discontent with the economy, Bush is trailing Democrat Bill Clinton in public opinion polls despite a week of publicity from the Republican National Convention. 
Orders for durable goods, big­ticket items intended to last three or more years, are a crucial indicator of economic 
goods New orders ~~I Billions of dollars. seasonally adjus/ed  

132  

128  

124 t--­t-­1t-­120 t--­f-­'-­-r.mr­-t--­~ t--­-1108 0 t---ASO N D • M J 1991 1992 July '91 June'92 July '92 j127.2ll123.2ll119.0~  

Source US Dept of Commerce AP 
health, measuring the willing­
ness of consumers and busi­
nesses to commit to major pur­
chases that often require bor­
rowing. 
Without a sustained im­
provement in orders, 
economists see little prospect 
for a meaningful decline in the 
unemployment rate, which was 
7.7 percent in July, just under the eight-year high of 7.8 per­cent in June. 
In a sign of poor prospects for manufacturing employment, the backlog of unfilled orders fell 
1.4 percent in July to a sea­sonally adjusted $461.2 billion. the lowest level since February 
Bush sets hurricane relief plan 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush urged Americans to "pull together to help" the vic­
. tims of Hurricane Andrew and said he would fly to Louisiana later today to inspect the devas­tation there. 
'The destruction from this storm goes beyond anything we have known in recent years," said Bush, who made a similar quick inspection to Miami after the ferocious storm first hit the 
U.S. mainland there. 
Bush, at a White House news conference, announced that he was freeing $10 million in fed­eral funds to create 5.000 short-term jobs to help in the clean-up in Florida. where damages have run into the bil-


UniOnS may lose insurance benefits 
NEW YORK (AP) -For years, labor unions have negotiated successfully to have employers pay for their members' health care. But as medical costs keep rising, experts say free health plans are a .benefit unions may start losing. 
General Motors said this week that salaried workers and retirees must start paying health insurance premiums. The United Auto Workers says that means that health care could be a thorny issue at next year's contract talks. 
David Wilson of the consulting firm Foster Higgins & Co. says the move should signal that fully paid health-care plans have gotten too expensive for workers to continue counting on them as a benefit. 
"GM has been a kind of all­powerful corporate giant that has appeared immune to a lot of the cost problems associated with benefits," Wilson said. "It's clear they can't afford to do that 

Durable good orders fall badly in July Durable 
~~ 
1989. It was the 11th consecutive 
decline and an indication that 
the current factory work force 
was having little trouble keep­
ing up with orders. 
"The backlog points to very 
sluggish industrial activity 
down the road. Manufacturing 
employment will be in the dog 
house for quite some time to 
come," said economist Sung 
Won Sohn of Norwest Corp. in 
Minneapolis. 
The Commerce Department attributed most of the July drop to a 15.2 percent plunge in orders for transportation equipment, particularly for air­craft and parts. It was the biggest decline in that typically volatile category in 10 months. Orders for military goods, which overlaps the transporta­tion category, plummeted 26.4 percent. 
Excluding defense, orders fell 2 percent. Excluding trans­portation, they rose 0. 7 per­cent, with the strength concen­trated in a 2. 7 percent rise in orders for electrical equipment. 
"Although the report was worse than expected it's not as bad as it looks on the surface because a big chunk of the de­cline comes in aircraft, which is a very volatile sector," said economist Priscilla Trumbull of the WEFA Group, a Bala Cyn­wyd, Pa.. forecasting firm. 
However, because orders for both primary metals and indus­trial machinery fell 1. 9 percent, the report must be considered "moderately disappointing," she said. 
George Bush 

lions of dollars. "Our country must pull to­gether to help," said Bush. "I want to express our con­tinued concern and support for 
the people of Florida and Louisiana as they recover from this dreadful hurricane," said Bush. "I want to go to Louisiana as soon as possible today to communicate this directly to the people of that state." 
He said he was clearing his schedule, but gave no other details of where he was headed. 
"The destruction from this storm goes beyond anything we have known in recent years," said the president. 
"Damage is in the billions of dollars, and deaths already in double-digits," he said. "Literally millions of American citizens ·today find themselves in the midst of personal devas­tation." 
anymore ... and the union is going to have to face it." 
GM, which provides insurance coverage for about 1.8 million active and retired workers and their dependents, said its health-care costs have jumped 12 percent annually since 1965. The nation's largest automaker said the costs now amount to $929 for every vehicle it builds. 
The nation's No. 1 automaker is by no means in the vanguard in requiring employees to con­tribute to the cost of health in­surance. 
Last year, 55 percent of 2.400 companies surveyed said they required workers to pay part of the cost of health care, Foster Higgins said. That was up 14 percent from five years before. 
"It's more common than not to find employers requesting a substantial contribution to health care costs by employ­ees," said Cheryl Skolnik, an analyst with Advest Inc. in Washington. 
Labor unions, meanwhile, have fought hard to keep their members' health care plans in place. The consulting firm No­ble Lowndes says health care was the reason for 55 percent of the labor strikes in 1990. 
To a large degree, the unions have been successful. 
While 55 percent of the com­panies Foster Higgins surveyed required workers to pay at least some of their health-care costs, only 29 percent of the compa­nies with 50 percent or more union workers did so. 
Unionized companies also paid $4,255 per employee for health care, compared with $3,328 for non-union compa­nies. 
But a survey of 550 execu­tives of large corporations by the Conference Board showed that 80 percent expect employ­ees will have to pay more for health-care costs over the next five years. 
Auto sales rise despite low consumer faith 
DETROIT (AP) -· Trucks 
again saved the domestically 
built vehicle market from flat 
sales and falling consumer 
confidence, mid-August auto 
sales figures show. 
Car and light-truck sales rose 11.8 percent for the 10 major dome~tic automakers in the Aug. 11-20 period, despite reports that consumers' faith in the economy is dropping, according to data released Tt:(esday. 
Truck sales, which have· been strong for months, accounted for much of the surge. They increased 31.2 percent, while car sales re­mained flat with a 0.2 percent decrease. 
Ford Motor Co. showed the biggest jump. with a 23.6 per­cent overall sales increase. The automaker was the only one of the Big Three to report an increase in car sales. Truck sales increased 36.7 percent and car sales rose 13.7 percent from the same period a year ago. 
"There's just more people coming through the door right now," said Bill Simmons, gen­eral sales manager at the Dick Strauss Ford dealer in Rich· mond, Va. 
..Our main problem with sales in August is that our in­ventories are starting to get slim,'' he said. "We had as­sumed that this year things would be the same as Jast year, and now all of a sudden everything·s getting better." 
The projected annual rate 
for new car sales rose to 6.2 
million for the period. up from 
a three-month low of 5. 8 
million in early August. 
Still, the Conference Board 
reported Tuesday that con~ 
sumer confidence was down 
this month to its lowest level 
since March. 

The widely watched economic survey said con­sumers were more negative than in July, both in terms of their view of the current situa­tion and expectations for the future. Since June, the index has fallen about 20 percent. 
Analysts said that's bad news for automakers. 
"Consumer confidence typi­cally leads car sales. so it's not a positive sign for future levels," said Steve Girsky, an analyst with Paine Webber Inc. 
General Motors Corp. re­ported a 2.9 percent overall increase in sales. But that was buoyed largely by a 19.3 rise in truck sales. Car sales fell 
6.9 percent from this period last year. 
Chrysler Corp. sales. esti­mated by Ward's Automotive Reports. rose 18.8 percent. Again, truck sales accounted for the bulk of the growth, with a 36.7 percent jump. Car sales fell 9.3 percent. 
There were nine selling days in this year's Aug. 11-20 period compared with eight last year. 
~-~----­
-----"""""!"'~~-----~-------------~-~-------.... 
Viewpoint 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant 

Dear Editor:  
I would like to extend to you a  
warm welcome on behalf of all  
of us who work in the Division  
of Student Affairs-the offices  
of Residence Life, Security,  
Student Residences, Alcohol  
and Drug Education, Student  
Activities, International Student  
Affairs,  Minority  Student  
Affairs, Counseling Center,  
Career and Placement, Health  
Services, Campus Ministry and  
Hall Staffs.  
Although we provide a variety  
of services, we share a common  
desire to do everything we can  
~  to help facilitate your intel­ 
(  lectual, spiritual and personal  
growth in your lives outside the  
1  classroom. We welcome  back  the  
1 I I I  sophomores, juniors and se­niors, as well as the returning graduate and professional stu­dents.  
f  We extend a special welcome to our new students-the  

Managing Editor John Rock 

News Editor ...................... David Kinney Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Sports Editor •.••....•.... Michael Scrudato Acoent Editor .•..•••..•..Jahnelle Harrigan Photo Editor •.......... Marguerite Schropp Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor 
Business Manager Richard Riley 
Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Production Manager ••.•••...Jeanne Blasi Systems Manager .••........... Patrick Barth OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Controller ....•..••...••....•..... David Beliveau 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and ttie free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
O'Hara extends welcome to students 
freshmen, transfer and new graduate and professional stu­dents. 
You join a proud community with a rich tradition that dates back one hundred and fifty years to the vision of our founder Father Edward Sorin, 
C.S.C. 
We hope that all of you-both those who are new and those who are returning-will be able to achieve the academic, spiri­tual and personal goals you set for yourselves this year. 
I hope that I will have the op­portunity to come to know as many of you as possible in the months ahead. 
Until I am able to greet you in person, please know that you have my very best wishes for a year filled with all God's good blessings. 
Patricia A. O'Hara Vice President for Student Affairs Aug.24,1992 

page 8 Thursday, August 27, 1992 

Thursday's V e r s e 
"Lollapoemooza '92: Houston Convention Days Revisit.ed <A Frighteningly Fruitless Quest for the Last Great American Potato( e)>" 
PROLOQUE: 
allow the publik 
to be wary 

of those who envision 
an amerika 

their deluded version 
of "beautiful" 

reality vs. weird hallucinations of grandeur 
the kind voters shall decide 
and may the great holy Bro' from on high bless 'em: oh, beautiful for polluted skies and ice-t's awakening, boycotted growls for a wanna be white house majesty campaigning 
across 

the jobless plains america (all 4 point somethin' schmillion dollars national debt of ya) buddha spare the fate of thee if u dunce cap yer good with some square like pat buchanan 
(that trigger happy hood) from harlem to south central L 
A 
By Guy Loranger 
Guy Loranger is an Assistant Viewpoint Editor and a sophomore in the College ofArts and 

Letters. 

Some sing. Some don't. Some feel. Some ignore. Some write. Some just read. 
Send your unpublished, poetic, point of view to: Thursday's Verse 
P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
IT'§ NOT fOI< M&, OF ClXJR5t, 
Bl!TA Y(}()l¥3 NE5W U/!Fe-~ 
GIVe JIM A fJYNAM/C IMAGE. 
A WOMAN U~ THAT VALJOOES 
H/13 t3Ucat3S IN "-­THeWO!<W! 
IAJUL-, If YOU 
A5KM&, TH& 
ONL.Y -nt!NGIT VAUCJATE:S IS 

H15FA!WRE ~~~/ ATHOM/3. 
fJCAR, IF YOU N&W TO & 5UJV 
«JITH A BIMBO, 
fAJHY /XJN'T YOU 
J~TRENTON& 
FRIJM AN &9CORT 
SCRVIC£.~ 
'What luck for rulers that men don't think.' 
Adolf Hitler 

Work that mush in your skull, submit: 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q, ND. IN 46556 
Accent 

Thursday, August 27, 1992 

•
10 

By PAUL PEARSON 
Associate News Editor 
They look like normal Notre Dame 
students in their flannel shirts, blue 
jeans and sneakers. They talk about all 
the normal things that students talk 
about-final exams, news from home, 
and so forth. 
Their common bond is not so normal. 
These students, who look like they want 
to be lawyers or accountants, live in Old 
College. 
These men are thinking about 
entering the priesthood. 
The Old College is a program for ND 
freshmen, sophomores and juniors who 
want to join the Congregation of the 
Holy Cross. Students live and pray 
together in a community setting. While 
working toward their bachelor degrees, 
they think about whether the life of 
celibate devotion to God is right for 
them. 
The students follow an extensive 
regimen of spirituality, including daily 
Mass, morning and evening prayer and 
occasional retreats. 
Along with spiritual fulfillment, the 
program gives students a financial 
benefit-a full scholarship courtesy of 
the Holy Cross priests. 
Juniors who complete the program 
can spend their senior year in Moreau 
Seminary, in the hopes of eventually 
earning a master of divinities degree 
and ordination as Holy Cross priests. 
Between now and then, though, comes a great amount of soul searching.Anton Eppich, a junior physics major from Portland, Oregon, isn't even sure he wants to be a priest. He learned about Old College from a recruiter he met at a retreat at the University of Portland. "It seemed like a great way to feel out the system (of priesthood), and to attend Notre Dame." 
The Old College program also gives Eppich something that surprised him at first-"a chance to be a normal student." 
The students must earn 12 credit hours in theology and 18 hours in philosophy. Other than that. they can follow any curriculum they choose. 
The Old College students live in a three-story brick house (complete with central heating, carpets and a color TV) located behind the Architecture Building. 
The house was constructed in 1843 by Father Edward Sarin, and is now the oldest building on campus. In the past, it has functioned as a residence for Holy Cross sisters, a house for lay brothers and a temporary college. In fact, from 1854 until 1880, the house even served as a bakery for the University. 
On March 19, 1906, the house, according to the plaque on its side, was oflicially opened "as a house of studies for teaching and training Holy Cross Brothers," which it has been hosting ever since. 
Despite the Old College's odd location, "It's not a Benedictine monastery," Eppich says. "We're kind of forced to have a social life." 
The students wear normal clothes and are encouraged to socialize with other students, even to date and go to other dorms' formals. 
Program Director Father John Jenkins wants his men to date before deciding upon a life of chastity. "I want them to have that experience and say 'Yes, I can do that, but I want something else.' They should not be making this choice because they feel uncomfortable with women." 
Eppich tries to lead a normal social life1 which includes participation in the Physics Club and Notre Dame Encounter (NDE) retreats. "I have to make time for myself to keep my sanity," he says. 
'It's not a Benedictine monastery. We're kind of forced to have a social life.' 
A large part of Jenkins' job is evaluation. Jenkins and his staff regularly check the students' psychological and spiritual growth with interviews and tests. "We try to discover if these men have a sense of God's presence in their lives." 
This evaluation includes secular help. Students who complete the program go through a one-and-a-half-hour session with a University Counseling Center psychologist and take a 700-question objective test. 
One person who helps Jenkins with the students is Sister Patricia Clark, the associate rector at the Fisher Graduate Residences. She helps gauge the students' spirituality. "I try to help them come to a decision (about their lives.)" 
Clark believes that these candidates need "a real love of the Lord and his people," as weII as an unselfish personality. "We try to discern if he can be outside himself enough to be of service to others." 
The toughest thing the students face. Jenkins says, is the expectations they will face as priests. "If you fall short, you can really damage people and undermine their trust and faith." 
page 9 


Students study at Old College in preparation tor the priesthood 

This difficulty is doubly harsh on Eppich admits that the Old College is Jenkins, who feels he must be an not perfect. "There are things that I've example to these men. "The hardest been attracted to, and things that I've thing (about this job) is to live up to this struggled with," he says. But on the sort of life at all times. These whole, he says, "I can't see anything (candidates) are young people, and you that I disagree with." need to guide and nurture them." Eppich still has "eight years of 
formation" between now and final 
Is this pressure to be perfect vows. At the moment, his solution to unbearable? Not in Jenkins' opinion. this problem is to "take things one day After all, "It's very hard to be a at a time." Christian." 
Inevitably, Jenkins says, about half of One thing that keeps him going is the the students who enter the Old College people he has met. Besides being decide that they do not want to be "bright, intelligent, capable and hard­priests after all. When that happens, the working," his Old College friends are, in students simply leave the program, Eppich's opinion, "the best part about move into another dorm. and continue the program." their collegiate careers. Even if he decides to leave the 
John Rock, a junior biology major program, Eppich will still believe that from Sturgis, Michigan, is one of those people. ­
In 1988, during his junior year of high 'The hardest thing (about 
.......

school, Rock and his parents "stumbled 
this job) is to live up to this
into" Moreau Seminary during a visit to Notre Dame and were told about the sort of life at all times. Old College program. Rock was 
These (candidates) are
interested in becoming a priest, so he decided to "give it a shot" and enrolled young people, and you in the program in the fall of 1990. need to guide and nurture 
them.'

After one semester, Rock decided that this sort of life was not for him. "I was not as interested in (the priesthood) as I he benefited from it. "I can't answer the had thought." He also felt that this life questions (about my life) if I don't ask was keeping him from "a lot of other them." things that I wanted to get involved in." Jenkins agrees. The people who leave 
the Old College, in his opinion, have not 
When Rock decided to leave, he found wasted their time, since "they have that the people in the program were become more mature and can be just as "very supportive and understanding" of happy," as students who become the decision. They realize that "it's a priests. 
long road, and some people bail out early," he said. The work is worthwhile for Jenkins Although Rock left the program, he "when you see people grow, and you 
found it rewarding. "It's a good feel as if you have been a part of that." program for young men to think." he Eppich, Rock, Father Jenkins, and said. Sister Clark seem to agree on one thing 
Rock has no regrets about the Old when it comes to the Old College: "It's a College, or about his decision to leave. very rewarding program." ''I'm glad I went through it, I'm glad I It doesn't take a miracle to figure out was there and now I'm glad out." why. 
The Observer Thursday, August 27, 1992
page 10 
Rice 
continued from page 12 
he still found himself playing second fiddle to Scott Erney at the helm of the Dragon offense. 
At the completion of his sec­ond year, Rice decided against returning for a third year. He returned to South Bend, to his wife Felicia and his two daugh­ters Alexandra and Melany. 
While at home, for the first time in his life, Rice contem­plated quitting the game which he had played for as long as he can remember. 
"I thought that was it. I really thought about ending my ca­reer, but when the Attack called I figured it was worth taking a chance on," added Rice. 
Two days after receiving the call, Rice was in Sacramento taking a crash course in Arena League offense. He wouldn't be asked to start, just simply an insurance policy in case starter Mike Hold fell to injury. 
"I never thought I would be playing in the Arena league," stated Rice. "I used to watch it on TV, and think how crazy those guys were, but this is an opportunity to keep playing. Football is in my blood, and it's hard to let go of." 
In his AFL debut, Rice simply stood on the sidelines. Although it was obvious he would not appear in the game, the crowd still chanted "We want Rice," near the end of the game. It was a small testimony to the feeling which Rice created in the minds of his fans. 
Even from the sidelines Rice's passion and love for the game could still be seen, but as the past two years have shown, Rice's love for the game is not enough for a certain future in football. 
"I haven't signed anything with Sacramento for next sea­son, but I am optimistic," commented Rice as he finished removing his third pro uniform in as many years. "I feel I can play in this league, but if I am not signed then I will go home, start work, and spend time with my family. 

The fact that this could be the last season of football for Tony Rice lingers on the mind of his fans and Rice himself. But Rice's happiness is not depen­dent on whether or not he throws a pass or scores a touchdown, it relies on his contentment with life. A task which he has mastered. 
"I have a good job in Chicago which I can start anytime, so financially I am not worried." said Rice optimistically. "It's rough to think about giving up football, because I've played it my whole life. But if I do, I know things will work out and I will be happy." 
Anyone who saw Rice in his days at Notre Dame feels the force which surrounds him. His greatness on the football field created that feeling, but the happiness he derives from life strengthens the spirit which make Tony Rice special. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 


. Varsity Hockey will have a meeting on August 31 at 4:30 p.m. in the JACC Football Auditorium. '' 
Varsity s~ftball will hold an informational meetirig for aU riew and returning players today at 4:30 p.m. in the JACC Football Auditorium. Questions? Call the softball f;)ffice at 239-6167. 
:.::~:::::.. 
SMC sports writers have a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in 409 LeMans~ Anyone interested in covering Saint Mary's sports should come. For more info, call Nicole McGrath at 284-5193. 
Rowing Club will hold a meeting at 7:30 p.m. tonight in 205 Cushing. All varsity rowers should attend. 
Lacrosse meeting for all current team members and for people interested in trying out for the team on August 28 at 3 
p.m. at the Loftus Sports Center Auditorium. 
SMC Club Sports will hold a meeting tonight at 6 p.m. in Angela Athletic Center. Anyone interested should attend. 
The SMC tennis team will hold a meeting for anyone lnterestedin.tryingout for theteam onSeptember2 at 4:30p.m. in Angela Athletic Center. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 

For more information and assistance regarding the investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the Better Business Bureau of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 or B00-439·5313. 
*SENIORS* NORTHWESTERN ROADTRIP SEPT 4-5 
includes: BUS TICKET SECOND CITY TICKET HOTEL DOWNTOWN $65 Purchase @ LaFortune info desk 
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!! BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday Pandora's Books BOB Howard 3 blks. from campus 233-2342 
IVCF IVCF lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship 
invites you to a Picnic 

2:30 p.m., Sunday, August 30 meet at Main Circle,rides to 
Potawatami Park come for food and outdoor activity ?, call Kevin at 13B4, Lisa at 4290 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Lost: Blue NO 10 Holder Fri NighU Linebacker Please call Julie 2BB-5196 
LOST: A GOLD BRACELET, LINKED CHAIN, WITH THE NAME NICOLE ON THE TOP AND A HEART CHARM ATIACHED. IF FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT NIKI VOELZ AT 244 KNOTI, PHONE 4945. 
LOST: BLACK CARRYALL BAG. 
It contains my VISA, glasses. and many other things important to me. If found, please take to International Student Organization on the second floor of LaFortune. 
LOST: set of keys on round blue and gold ND keychain at Bridget's on Tuesday night. Please call Christine or Mary x2297 ASAP!!! 
WANTED 

LOCAL GOLF PRO SHOP NEEDS PART-TIME HELP. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL CHAD AT 282­3727 FOR MORE INFO. 
ROOMMATE**I'm looking for a roommate to share a two bedroom apartment two miles from campus. cost 200$/month. "l"am a swedish grad student.phone: 239560B.ask for Ragnar or 2725740. 
PAPA JOHN'S PIUA NOW HIRING Full-time and Part-time Drivers and Inside Help. Flexible Schedules. Call 271-1177 today for more information or apply in person at 54533 Terrace Lane (next to Subway) off SA 23 across from the new super Video Watch. Drivers need car, license and insurance. 
MOTHER'S HELPER TO CARE FOR OUR 3-YEAR-OLD. MUST BE FRIENDLY, WITH EXPERIENCE AND OWN CAR. PART TIME DAYS, SOME EVENINGS. 232­2201. 
FOR RENT 

Nice 2-bedroom apartment by Tippecanoe Place. $350. w/heat. 609 W. Washington, 232-7B61. 
2 Bed 'n Breakfast rooms. 1 mi. from campus -$75 a night, no smoking or drinking. Excellent neighborhood. 272-012B. 
2 night stays preferred .. 
School Year '92-'93. Two bedrooms, large outdoors. Home close to campus. Clean, quiet neighborhood. Use of kitchen and laundry facilities. A HOME away from HOME. WANTED: Mature goal-oriented, graduate & transfer students need apply. Preferably political science, music, and art majors and athletes. Only women who love children and are willing to spend their spare time teaching while living in the home. $200/month. Ex-California teacher and coach, 35 years experience. I travel periodically. 232-2794, ask for Paul. 
3 BEDRM FURNISHED, 922 
NOTRE DAME. 288-3942 OR 289­
6146 AFTER AUG. 27. 
NICE B & B ACCOMMODATIONS 
AVAILABLE FOR PURDUE, 
STANFORD, BYU &BOSTON 
COLLEGE. NEAR NO. 
CALL 271-09B9. 
Room for rent in safe neighborhood 
3 miles from campus. Phone, 
water, cat-petting privileges 
included. $275 plus half electric. 
Call Susan 271-0413. 
BED "N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291· 7153 
Share 2-BR Home with Male Grad 
Student. $260 plus phone. Jeff 
2BB-3878 Leave a message. 
UNIQUE B & B COUNTRY 
SETIING. MINUTES FROM ND 
NEAR GRANGER. BEDROOMS 
W/SHARED BATH. CALL 616·663­
B30B. 
need somebody to sublet my trtle 
creek apt(furnished studio);call 
Kevin at 273-8434 
FOR SALE 
19B7 V-4 Taurus. loaded, great shape. t-owner. Call 291·B999. 
OAKHILL CONDO • 2 BAS, 2 Baths, 1,170 sq. ft., fireplace, spiral staircase to lotuden. 1 car garage. Walk to ND. $77,500. Call Coldwell Banker, 277-BOOO or Ruth Ann Smith 2BB-BB75. 
Full size futon (frame and cushion) 
10-speed woman bike 
For details, call 271-B41B 
RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR, TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR, TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY FREE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-5959 
STAINMASTER RUG, 7 FT. SQ. ROSE W/GRAY BORDER. LIKE NEW. $150. 2B7-9B75. 
•••••••••••cARPETS******'**** ***********CARPETS**.. ••••••• *******!<... **CARPETS*****••••• ***********FOR SALE********** In excellent condition and very cheap. Please call 2B9·5563. 
COMPUTER: Epson Equity dual floppy, monitor, printer. $550 or offer. Lv msg for David at 239-6963 
TICKETS 
PLEASE HELP: My dad would like to see one Michigan game before I graduate and need tickets. Call Mike 2B3-1161 
NORTHWESTERN TIX FOR SALE CALL JOE X1760 
I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS.272-6306 
* • * * * • * • * * * • * • * 
Please Help Please Help My father would greatly appreciate any GAs to any games. And yes, he knows that the tickets are going at high prices. Mike at x1161 
• • • • * • • • • * • • • • • 
=========================== 
I WILL BUY YOUR TICKET APPLICATION$$ 2B3-1161 Michael 
=========================== 
WANTED: 2 TIX NO-MICH. WILL 
PAY. CALL 904-630-6346. I'LL 
CALL BACK ON MY WATS. 
CHUCK WHITE. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 2 
MICHIGAN GA'S. WILL OFFER 
FIRST BORN CHILD. CALL USA 
(COLLECT) AT (509) 534-4~7. 

SELLING 4 TIX TO NORTHWESTERN GAME -FACE VALUE. CONTACT: CATHIE 312­876-7729. 
TWO USC TICKETS FOR SALE CALL AMY @ 272-6264 
FOR SALE: 1 MICH. STUD. TIC 1 NORWST GA. X1B03 AFTR 6PM. 
$$$ PAY LOTS of MONEY $$$ For Many MICH TIX!! Call ED at X1002 
PLEASE SELL ME ONE BYU GA!! CATHERINE @ X2849 
$$ I Need MICH TIX!! $$ please please please please Call Dennis@ 2B3-1577 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 61B-439-3338. 
TICKET$$ TICKET$$ TICKETS$$ $$$1 DEPERATELY N E E D 6 G. A. 's FOR MICHIGAN$$$ please. please. please, please 
CALL X2454 
HELP A SENIOR! Need 4·5 GEN or STD tkt for U MICH. Last Hope for family! Tim @2B9-5196 
Will pay big bucks for ND -MICH 
G.A. tix. Call Joe @ 2B7 ·4561. 
I NEED 3 MICHIGAN GA'S 
DESPERATELY WILL PAY CALL MIKE AT X 2209 
WANT TO MAKE A BUCK? I REALLY NEED MICH. TICKETS! WILL PUT DEPOSIT ON TICKET BOOK. CALL JON DEBARTOLO AT x35B7. 
HAVE 4 BYU, 2 BC, 2 PS. 
NEED 2-4 MICH. 
B00-359-6B64 CHRIS OR ED B. 
$$$$ NEED 3 MICH TIX! CALL KIRSTIN X42B1 
HELP!! Need 1 MICH GA Call Scott at x4243 Good price 
NEED 1 STUD. MICH. TIC. CALL SEAN 2B3-1303. 
NEEDED: 1 Ticket for Oct. 3 Stanford/Parents' Weekend Game for my little brother. Please 
HELP! Call MICHELLE X2521 
PLEASE PLEASE. 
I NEED 7 MICH. GA'S. CALL 
SHIRLEY AT 239-5303 BEFORE 4 
PM, OR 272-3753 AFTER 5. SCALPERS NEED NOT CALL. 
NEED 2 MICH. GA'S. CALL 70B­
251-4502 & LV. MESSAGE, OR 
MARK RUST AT 70B-9B2·1776. 
I NEED 2 GA MICHIGAN TICKETS I HAVE MONEY! CALL SUSAN 289-64B5 
FREE MONEY If you can provide me with 5-1 0 MICH GAs for 5th year reunion Call Jeff @ 2B3-3306 
I have U2 (Chi) tickets.! want PSU tickets, TRADE? Dan x1374. 
Let's be honest, our parents aren't dying and yes, they have already seen an ND game. but they would like to see another. If you have any extra Michigan tickets, student or GA, please call Christine or Mary at x2297 Thanks! 
NEED MICHIGAN GAs WILL BEAT ANY OFFER PLEASE HELP KYLE 234 9433 
ALUM NEEDS TIX FOR MICH., STANFORD, PENN ST. CALL DAN (312) B6B-0009. 
PERSONAL 
FENCING CLUB: Meets 6:30-B:OO, Fencing Gym, JACC. Beginners welcome. First meeting September 1st. Equipment provided. $BO per semester. 
Steve is a God Audrey Gomez 
TEC TEC TEENS ENCOUNTER CHRIST IN SOUTH BEND AREA ARE VERY HAPPY TO WELCOME NOTRE DAME/ST. MARY'S STUDENTS WHO WISH TO JOIN US HERE. CALL 277-2535. 
$$$MICHIGAN$$$ 
I WILL PAY LARGE SUMS OF$$$ FOR G.A.'s & STUDENT MICHIGAN TIX PLEASE, PLEASE HELP ME $ $ $ CALL x 2 4 5 4 $ $ $ 
Hey Niff 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center 
Now open even LATER!!! 
Mon-Thur 7:30am -Midnight 
Fri 7:30am-7:00pm 
Sat Noon-6:00pm 
Sun Noon-Midnight 
DJs, DJs, DJs, DJs, DJs, DJs, DJs: Student Activities is hiring DJs for the LaFortune Ballroom. All those interested should apply at 315 LaFortune-if you applied at the end of last year and still want to be a OJ, you should reapply. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Happy Birthday!! 
DIANE WONG is the big 21!! 
Happy Birthday!! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 

I'm looking for a student to help me clean my big, old house on Friday afternoons. I can provide transportation. $12 per week, around 2 1/2 hours. Call 234-449B evenings. 
CHISEL *CHISEL*CHISEL 
We need a BASS player. 
Wanna stick it to the man? Learn how to play, record, and sell your own product without THEIR help! 
CALL: 2B9-4278 TODAY!!! 
To ALL students in last semester's PHIL 302: If you need any help or just someone to talk to, I'm STILL here for you in carrel #B2B -T.H. 
SHORT ON CASH ? 

Stop by MORRISSEY LOAN Mon.-Fri. : 11:30-12:30 
1st Floor LaFortune O'Hara Lounge 
30 day loans up to $250 @ 1% interest 
DIANE WONG, Hope you have an awesome birthday!! HAPPY 21 !!!!! Tanjoobi omedetoo gozaimus!! 
love Diane & Eileen 

HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY AMY McAULIFFE!!! A bit of advice from some wise Juniors: KEEP THE BUCKET CLOSE TO YOUR HEAD! LOVE, Christine & Mary 
Rrrusty ... 
Used Bicycle wanted! Please call Khristy at x2555. 
Used refrigerator wanted! Please call Allison at x2529. 
Happy 21st Diane! Love, Alicia, Ann, Carrie, and Katy 
Steve's generosity is known campus-wide. 
Brian Kubicki is my Sam the Bald Eagle hero. 
Hi Maura Gallagher! Welcome Back from Austria and don't worry about anything because this year is gonna be great. 
SP keep smiling this year will be alright. You have all my respect and trust unlike someone else we know. 
To my Iii bro and sis, Kevin Krayer and Kathy Timons:Welcome to NO, good luck this semester and have a blast. 
BLOCKS OF NORTHWESTERN 
TICKETS FOR SALE 
CALL HOBBS AT X1161 
This is 
the end 
of classifieds. 
Thursday,August27, 1992 
The Observer page 

''~ou know, itf )o ridiculou). If I don't call my parent5 every ~unday at exact~ s.o'clock, the~ thihl<. I was kidnapped by alleM. or ~omething. Arryway I Ot'\e Sunday t'Y\9 and M k we decide to take-off and checkouf th!rcify. )oc we're haflgin3. out and I look. a+-~ "'· ..... rf\Y watch. 5 o'cloc/(. Alrrght, So rny call1h9 
card ahd r head dow"' +o the local pool hall. (Which I happen to know haJ apayphohe) And I te II the folk5 the Ma/"tiQnr SeY\d -Their bert.'' 
o matter where you happen to be, the 
for another. 
·· .' AT&T Calling Card can take you home. If you get your Calling Card now, your first 
It's also the least expensive way to call will be free~* And you'll become a member of call state-to-state on AT&T, when you can't dial .................... AT&T Student Saver Plus, a program of products direct. With the new AT&T Call and Save Plan, and services that saves students time and money. you'll get special discounts on AT&T Calling Card calls~ All of which makes the AT&T Calling Card out of And once you have your card, you'll never need to apply this world. 
To get an AlBa' Calling Card for off-campus calling, call1800 654-0471 Ext. 850. 

ATa.T· 
© 1992 ATIT. 'Ptnding FCC appnMI Please all ~ 800 oomber for detaib. '•'obu11""""' one $3 ATiT L.D. C<rtifiale ~~ Ill Z2 .,;.....,. ol ant or dirm·dialed. aNt·ID-<OISt. ni!tn and ......,.. callinc bos<d m ,_ dla:tiw 6f8f1l.. lW could J1<1 """' or i:Mr miwto dependir~~ oo where or wbm yw call Offer Umited 10 ooe ctniliar< I"" studml 
--·-------------___. 
.J 
•• ! 
~r~···~;~~: 

~-~ --~-----.....---~---~---------.,.--------------------------------­
page 12 
Rice 
continued from page 16 
could attest to the force which encompasses such a player. 
That feeling existed, despite the fact that Rice had not played a down in the night's contest. It was something which could never grow dim, no matter how many years passed 
or games spent watching from 
the sidelines. 
The unusual thing was that the feeling no longer existed for Rice. He had once felt it, in his days under the Golden Dome. ,Eyery game students,. alumni 
SEE WHAT TAKES SHAPE. 
EXERCISE. 
American Heart Association 

tQ 1992, Amencan Heart Association 

The Observer 
Systems Department is hiring for 
the paid position of:
I) 
) 
1 
Typesetter 
:l 
If any questions, please contact Patrick Barth@ 239-7471 
I I 
P@'S~7 Day Delivery 
l 
~ Roses Flowerstt1. Balloons Plants 
~ rt Gift & Fruit Baskets 
'"YOUR FUU SERVICE F\.ORISI 

Clocktower Square (219)277.,1291 51400 31 North Order 24 hrs South Bend, IN 46637 a day 
Mention this ad and receive 10°/o off 
Not good for Valentine's Day 
Taco Bell Presents 
AMERICA'S ROCK 'N' ROLL BAND 
The Observer Thursday, August 27, 1992 
and fans laid their hopes on his task which is proving to be his shoulders with the utmost con­greatest accomplishment. fidence. That task began in Barcelona, 
For fans, memories keep the home to the Dragons of the feelings alive, but for Rice it is World League of American gone. It has been replaced by Football. After leaving Notre his desire to please himself, a Dame, he decided to help christen the WLAF in it's inaugural year after playing briefly in the Canadian Football League. 
He was undoubtably the biggest name in the league, but 
see RICE/page 1 0 

RESERVE 0 F F ICE R S' TRAINING C 0 R P S BELIEVE IT OR NOT, THIS GUY IS IN CLASS. Excitement and adventure is the course description, and Army ROTC is the name. It's the one college elective that builds your self-confidence, develops your leadership potential and helps you take on the challenges of command. There's no obligation Wltil your junior year, so there's no reason not to try it out right now. ARMY ROTC THE SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. Contact Captain Selling 239-6264 for information  


CARROT TOP 
Appearing: Saturday, August 29th and Sunday, August 30th 
8PM 
Washjngton Hall 

Tickets: $3 at the La Fortune Info Desk (Satisfaction guaranteed or your money back!) 
As seen on: MTV, Evening at the Improv, Showtime Comedy Club Network Sponsored by Student Activities 

_ _I 

Thursday, August 27, 1992 
The Observer page 13 
Forty-Niners trade disgruntled Haley to Cowboys 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. (AP) ­Linebacker Charles Haley, a spectacular defensive play­maker who was unhappy with the San Francisco management. was traded Wednesday by the 49ers to the Dallas Cowboys for a series of conditional draft picks. 
The pass-rushing specialist tied for the team lead in sacks last season with seven. He had 63 sacks in his stormy six-year career with the 49ers, who drafted him out from James Madison in the fourth round of 
Decorate your room in style with flowers, plants, &balloons 
Heaven & Earth 
143 Dixie Way South (31 North) (1/4 mile North of Notre Dame) 
10% discount with Student I.D. 
the 1986 draft. 
Carmen Policy. the 49ers club president, said the trade could involve first-, second-and third­round picks in the 1993 and possibly 1994 drafts under certain conditions. 
Policy said the conditioos re­lated to the respective finishes of the 49ers and Cowboys and were not linked to player per­formance. He refused to go into further detail, saying the two teams had agreed to keep most conditions confidential. 

Policy said the deal was also 
IheDbserver 
is now accepting application for the following position: 
CIRCULATION DRIVERS 
Get paid to tour NO/SMC campuses at lunch! 
To apply, please contact Rich Riley at 239-7471. 
conditioned on Haley passing a 
physical. Haley had offseason 
surgery to repair a torn rotator 
cuff but had practiced with the 
49ers during training camp and 
was a projected starter. 
Though he was regarded as the 49ers' premier defensive player, Haley had clashed with coach George Seifert· as well management. He openly ques­tioned such player personnel moves as the decision to leave Ronnie Lott and Roger Craig unprotected following the 1990 season. Both Lott and Craig left the team as Plan B free agents. 
Following the 49ers' 12-6 loss to the Los Angeles Raiders last season, Haley had a locker room tantrum. He yelled at quarterback Steve Young for throwing a couple of key inter­ceptions and calmed down only after Lott, summoned from the opposing locker room, came to talk to him. 
Haley also criticized Seifert last season, accusing him of in-suiting his defensive unit by 
L-------------------~-----' showing them films of the 
Philadelphia Eagles defense, and spoke sarcastically of owner Eddie DeBartolo's at­tempts to cut the 49ers' operat­ing costs. 
Haley long believed the 49ers were trying to get rid of him, especially after they obtained Tim Harris, another pass­rushing linebacker, in a trade last year with Green Bay. 
On several occasions last sea­son, Haley said he wanted out. But the 49ers were reluctant to deal him -and had said so publicly -until Wednesday. 
"It is believed to be in the­short-and long-term best in­terest of this organization and we sincerely hope it's in the best interest of the player as well," Policy said. 
Jock  
continued from page 16  
becomes quite clear.  
The first stadium initiative  
came during the greatest mo­ 
ment in recent Giant history.  
their 1989 season, and more  
specifically, their World Series  
appearance. With the initiative  
all set to breeze through the  
polls, old Ma Nature decided to  
hit the Bay Area with the  
biggest earthquake since the  
"Big One" in 1906.  
The people of San Francisco  
had more pressing issues, like  - 
finding homes for thousands of  
people. So, dishing out a hun­ 
dred million dollars for a new  
stadium seemed understand­ 
able ludicrous. That started a  
trend which continued for  
three more elections, and led to  
the departure of my beloved  
team.  
It may take years but I may  
find a new team. It may even  
be the Oakland A's, who are  
only a short ways fr~"ll home,  
(Although it will ta1.. e me a  
while to get used to a team  
who owns more pairs of Oakley Blade sunglasses then they do  ..  
games above .500}. But I will  
never forgive Mother Nature  
for taking away my team.  

Indiana Auto Insurance Our good rares may save 'YW money. Call fOr a quote 9-5, 289-1993. Office near camp.lS. 

There's a lot more than a great calculator waiting for you when you purchase an HP 48SX or an HP 488 between June 1, 1992, and October 31,1992. You'll get a bonus book that's good for free software, a free PC link cable and hundreds ofdollars back on applications-like electrical and mechanical engineering­memory cards, training tools, games, and HP's infrared printer. 

It's a really big offer. Worth more than $500. And it's going to make your HP 48 calculator even more valuable to you. The free serial cable lets you exchange information with your PC. And the free software disk lets you enterand plot equations easily, do 3D plotting, and analyze polynomials. 
01992 Ht>wlett-Packard C'~mpany PG12203B 

Beyond all the bonuses, you 'Jl have the right calculator for your most challenging classes. HP 48 calculators have over 2100 built-in functions and offer a unique combination of graphics and calculus. 
Head over to the campus book­store now. After all, you don't see this kind ofdeal every day. HP calculators. The best for your success. 
Ff/OW HEWLETT 
a:~ PACKARD 

--~~--~----~~--~--~~---------------~~--~----~----------------------------------~---­

; 
il 
I
I .i 
i 
1 
; 

I 
I , I 
I 
I . 
-.. 
-~ 

f: 
,,' 
J; 
H 
F 
l 
I 
I'l 
I 
j \ I; 
-' 
page 14 
Deion puts Braves on ho~d 
SUWANEE, Ga. (APJ ---Eugene Parker, -Saliders· Atlanta Falcons president agent. Later in the day Parker Taylor Smith said Wednesday was expected to meet with the team may consider allow-+Braves general manager John ing cornerback Deion Sanders,. Schuerholz. to miss two games to play with: "I think Eugene is inhere to the Braves. in the event get something done forDeion," Atlanta's baseball team makes Smith said...The decision it tC? postseason play, needs to be made now and 
· "We're interested in Deion then everyone goes on~ We're being here, number one as a reasonably sure the decision full-time football player," will be madEfin the next day or 
-Smith said. "If there's a see~ so." nario where it would be some· Sanders. a Pro Bowler last bing less than that,. we're season, was offered a $1 . willing to listen, but. ~·t" ·million bonus by the -Falcons Smith and vice president to report to training camp on 
~-:~~:/

Jim Hay met Wednesday with time. --···· 
Attention Students! NBD Bank has you needl • No-Fee Checking and Savings Accounts •Loans •Computer Banking wHh NBD Express •AlMs • Extended Banking Hours Visit NBD Bank located a few blocks from the Notre Dame campus. NBDBank 18083 S.R. 23 North 273-1280M Gl Member FDIC LiN~II -­ 
University of Notre Dame Graduate Student Union Thursday, August 2 7 Tips for Lecturing --Center for Continuing Education Auditorium 7 p.m.... 8:30 p.m. Running Discussions and Seminars --Center for Continuing Education Rooms 100 .. 104 8:30p.m ... 10 p.m. Assisting in Laboratories --Center for Continuing Education Roorns 100 .. 104 8:30p.m ... 10 p.m. Monday, August 31 Teaching Across Gender and Cultural Differences ... Center for Continuing Education Auditorium Rooms 100 .. 104 7 p.rn ... 8:30 p.m.  

The Observer Thursday, August 27, 1992 
Paterno suspends accused pair 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. (AP) ­Penn State coach Joe Paterno on Wednesday suspended two players charged in an apartment break-in, saying he was "upset and saddened" about the allegations. 
Wide receivers Ricky Sayles, 22, and Bobby Engram, 19, were charged with burglary, theft and receiving stolen property, police said. Sayles was accused of interfering with police officers last month. 
"A lack of respect for personal property is a very se­rious offense," Paterno said. "Both athletes will be sus­pended indefinitely pending the final disposition of the charges against them." 
Sayles, a senior, was released on $5,000 bail shortly after noon. Engram, a sophomore from Camden, S.C., remained in the Centre County Prison in lieu of $5,000 bond. 
Police said they caught the men carrying stereo equipment out of a State College apartment complex at about 2 a.m. About $1,500 worth of goods ­including a compact disc player, 
BEACH PARTY 
SATURDAY, AUG. 29 
®ST. JOSEPH LAKE BEACH 
(RAIN DATE AUGUST 30) 
BIATHLON 
INDIVIDUAL AND 2 PERSON TEAMS SWIM 1/2 MILE AND RUN 2 MILES VARSITY & "THE REST OF US" DIVISIONS 
OON BEA TOURNEY 


TEAMS SIGN UP IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS 3 & 6 PERSON TEAMS 
a speaker, amplifier, and clothes -were stolen, police said. 
The incident was just the latest in a string of arrests of Penn State players this summer. 
Sayles, wide receiver O.J. McDuffie and cornerback Mark Graham were arrested early July 10 after a series of fights during an arts festival in State College.Police said Sayles and McDuffie interfered with offi­cers who were trying to break up the fights. 
CANOEING PADDLE BOATS KAY AKING CLINIC SAILING ROWING DEMONSTRATION SWIMMING 
SPONSORED BY RECSPORTS 
Attention OFF--CAMPUS Students 
First Football Practice will be Monday, August 31 5:00p.m. Stepan Field 
Anyone interested in playing or coaching any off.. campus sports contact Keith McKeon at 2 7 3--2514 
I ~~ I 
' 

THE NOTRE DAME SPORTS MARKETING DEPARTMENT IS l.,OOKING FOR STUDENT ASSIST ANTS TO HELP PROMOTE OUR OLYMPIC SPORTS PROGRAMS 
IF INTERESTED, CALL MEG AT 239-8103 
I'  
' 
.  
J  





Today 

Thursday, August 27, 1992 
page 15 

SPELUNKER 
AHI-I, HANK. How '5HAI..t. I HURT THE£, LET M£ COUNT TH£ WAYS... 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

CROSSWORD 
1 Taste 28 Byron poem 52 Uncoln's second Secretary of War
29 Fragments 

6 Trash 53 Event at 
11 Hectic routine 30 B. Lancaster film, with "The": Tanglewood
13 French waiters 1956 54 Singer John15 Monkshood 32 Be suitable 55 About 10
16 World Series ,.losers: 1991 35 Where Brunei is gallons, in Europe
17 Lawyer's 36 Ocala's st. document 
39 Honshu port 19 "-MySwiss," 40 Author Barstow DOWN 
1925 song 41 Asset 1 Dockworkers' 
20"­
activity
42 Baseballer Mel 

Miserables" 2 Star of
43 Fr. holy woman 

21 Exist "Gunsmoke" 22 Noises 44 Trombones. to 3 Poker openers, jazzmen23 Drones sometimes 
45 Those in control

25 Message 4 VIII 
received 50 Beneficiary 5 Coral formation 6 Bulb units 7 A Guthrie 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
8 Disfigure 9Vessel's capacity 
~~Fi 10 Matriculated 11 White-water 
producers 12 Baldness 13C.I.A. head 14 Lord Peter 
Wimsey's creator 18 School song 
23 Reagan's first Secretary of State 
24 Samovar 
II Sf>..~'S 1\) 1'\-\£ WORLt>, "t'IW \OE~ITN \') Si:J WR~~P£0 
\JP \~ W\J.~T I BW 111/1-\ 
I PA\'0 \tl.t. COMPANY 10 
AMRT\5£. liS PRDDlJCIS.'• 
I 
JAY HOSLER 
OOD ONE! M GLAD TO SEE YOV'V£ FINAL.L't' D€VE LDPE:D A 56N'5f OF HU~ 
ABouT THtS€ &:ATINftS, HANK' 
BILL WATIERSON 

S-11 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

-
-
Carroll 

Film "Encino Man." 
SAINT MARY'S 
Sweet & Sour Pork 
Do you write? Do you draw? Do you take pictures? 
Tell us. Join us. 

The Observer 



25 Mother of Zeus 26 Hockey great 28 Turner of 
filmdom 29 Fleece 30 Seoul G.l. 31 Sly-fox 32 Areas in cafes 33Art lover 34 Gridiron pass 38 Praise effusively 
37 Building boards 46 Pub order 38 Declare 47 Cartoonist 40 Violinist from Soglow 
Russia 46 U.S. humane 
41 Gambol org. since 1866 43 Syncope 49 Disney movie: 44 Ideate 1982 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute)• 

WELCOME Weekend 192 
National Comedian 
CARROT TOP Beach Party 
at ND for 2 days only Encino Man Aug. 29 Stepan Courts 1 .. 5 p.m. 
Aug 29,30 FREE @ Cushing Auditorium One Ton Sundae Tie .. Dying
7 p.m., 9:30 p.m., 12 a.m.

8 p.m. Washington Hall 
Giveaways & More
Tonight

$3 @ LaFortune Info Desk 
Rockfest LIVE Aug. 28, 4p.m . ., 12 a.m. @ Stonehenge Dysfunktion, Access Denied, XYZ Affair & Many More 

STUOENT UNION 80.\RD 
~·· . 
-

-·· ---------_,_...._._.....,._...........,._...._________~-----------------------­
. ' 
if 

;;; 
)·, 
l 

-'t,,:. 

page 16 


GEORGE DOHRMANN 
The Jock Strip 

My beloved Giants heading East and I have no choice 
There are many cliches to describe an absence in one's life, such as, A man without a country, a sailor without a ship, and a boy without dog. 
Each case is terrible in it's own right, but nothing is worse than the cliche which stands under my name at the present moment-fan without a team. 
After weeks of avoiding it, I finally let myself in on a well known secret. The San Francisco Giant's are moving and they're not taking me with them. 
There new place of residence is the brand new Florida Suncoast Dome, in St. Petersburg, where they will be known to as the Tampa Bay Giants. 
I've heard all the talk about the financial advantages the move has for the Giants franchise, but as a fan who makes slightly less than the 111 million dollar price tag on the Giants, I only concern myself with the emotional ties that myself and the rest of the Giant faithful have for our team. 
I have been told several times that the Giants can still be "my" team, despite their relocation, but there are a number of factors which make that im­possible. 
The first of these issues deals with the stadium. I can't quite fathom why a state which boasts of the slogan "The Sunshine State" would build a domed stadium. Even a kid who can't spell baseball knows that domed stadiums ruin the game. If baseball inventor Abner Doubleday wanted baseball to be played indoors, then he would have invented it in his garage. 
The second problem which prevents the Tampa Bay Giants from remaining my team is the name. Everyone knows that nothing Giant has ever come from Tampa Bay. Especially football fans who have followed the history of the Buccaneers franchise. 
So here I stand, teamless. 
Shortly after the announcement of the proposed sale of the Giants, I watched a TV show which gathered a number of sports writers, who took turns stating who was to blame for the team's departure. The answers varied, but the majority stated that the move was the fault of the fans, due to the four stadium initiatives which failed to pass at the election boxes. 
Being one of those fans, I am quick to push the blame elsewhere. It isn't as easy as in New York where every piece of blame falls on George Steinbrenner's shoulders, so I started a comprehensive search. 
To my surprise my digging reveled a single culprit responsible for the Giants' move, Mother Nature. 
Ma Nature's part in the Giant's move is abstract, but after taking a longer look at her role in the scheme, it 
see JOCK/page 13 
INSIDE SPORTS 

•Penn 
State players suspended see page 14 

•cowboys 
acquire Haley see page13 

•Braves 
up Deion's offer see page 14 


Sports 

Thursday, August 27, 1992 

Rice's inner strength fuels his big dream 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer 
Tony Rice sat alone in the small dressing room, quietly undressing the Sacramento Attack uniform which had been given to him only five days earlier. 
He blended in with his teammates physically, but there was a feeling about Rice which set him apart from the other players in the room, a wave which signified something larger than the Arena league and the game which took place moments earlier. 
All the players felt it, and the people who mingled in the room as well. It did not take much to feel. Anyone who caught a glimpse of Rice in his days at Notre Dame, and witnessed that moment as he rounded the 
see RICE/page 12 

Jarc leads rise of ND women's soccer 



Senior co-captain heads Irish attack 
By RIAN AKEY Sports Writer 
For a young program, the Notre Dame women's soccer team is well on its way to becoming a powerhouse. In only its fifth year of existence, the Irish should begin their 1992 campaign among the top 20 teams in the country. 
Third-year coach Tim Petrucelli feels that the play of captain Margaret Jarc, along with an intense schedule, will contribute to the Irish's success this season. 
"Margaret has come back from the summer in great shape, and with a great attitude," he noted. "She has worked on and improved a few areas of her game, such as her quickness." 
Jarc began her collegiate career in impressive fashion. As a freshman, she was third on the team in goals scored. Her numbers have decreased since then due to a change in her role on the squad. 
"Margaret plays offense well," Petrucelli commented. "She's very quick on the attack, but we've moved her to sweeper-a defensive position. That accounts for her lower numbers." 
Jarc is joined by two other captains: Michelle Lodyga and Denise Chabot. 


However, each has been temporarily sidelined with an injury. 
"At first I was concerned about being the only remaining captain," Jarc said, "but now I realize Michelle and Denise are still here for the team mentally. I'm determined to prevent that situation from affecting my play." 
And determination is not foreign to Jarc. Last season, she broke her toe the night before the Michigan State game, but still competed in 70 of the contest's 90 minutes, helping the Irish roll to a 4­0 victory. 
Efforts such as Jarc's will be required from all members of the Notre Dame squad as they face stiff competition throughout the season. 
"There is not one game on the schedule which we can win by just showing up. We need to focus and play hard to win every single game,"said Petrucelli. 
The lrish open their season at· North Carolina State on September 5. 
"The Wolfpack has consistently been the best of second-best team in the country for the last 9 years," said Petrucelli. 
In late September, the Irish face four probable top 10 teams-Duke, Portland, Wisconsin, and Stanford-within a two week period. 
The competitive schedule, however, "Should help our chances to qualify for the 12-team NCAA tournament," said Jarc. "If you play weak teams and blow them away, it's still not as impressive as playing well against better squads." 
Come out and support the Irish at Alumni Field, as the first home game in the Irish's quest for an NCAA bid is September 20, against Dayton. 
Local sox poised and ready for stretch run 
BY JIM VOGL Assistant Sports Editor 
Many Notre Dame students have visited Coveleski Stadium downtown to root for the Irish baseball team. 
But Rita Baxter, Vice President of sales and promo­tions for the South Bend White Sox, also hopes to draw students to root for the Cove's true home team. 
"Notre Dame baseball plays 99 percent of their home games at Coveleski, plus they will be practicing here this season," says Baxter. "So we feel close to Notre Dame, although maybe they don't to us. 
"Students call a lot for tickets, and we also get a lot of groups." 
As incentive to bring Domers closer, the Sox will be offering students free tickets to tonight's game with the Beloit Brewers. Tickets can be picked up at the LaFortune Information desk. Gametime is 7 p.m.. 

"We had a Notre Dame/Saint Mary's night in the spring, "explained Baxter. "But it was cold and right before finals so they had some trouble coming out." 
Tonight's game pits two teams deadlocked in a tie for first-place in the Midwest League's Northern Division. With around two weeks left in the season's second-half, South Bend (34-27) now holds an identical record to Beloit, losers of six straight. 
The Brewers will send their stopper to the hill in right­hander Kevin Kloek, who sports a dominating 9-1 record and a league-leading 
1.92 ERA. The Sox, leading the league in team ERA, counter with Robert Ellis (5­5, 2.44). 
The Baby Sox offer a look at past, present and potential future Major Leaguers. 
First-year manager Terry Francona, just 33, spent ten years in "the Show." Starting in 1982 with the Montreal Expos, the well-travelled first-baseman also played for the Cubs, Reds, Indians, and most recently, the Brewers in 1989. 
Michael Huff, on a habilitation assignment with the Chicago White Sox, should be the center of attention. Huff, hitting .429 including a double, triple and homer in just 21 at-bats, has Chicago manager Gene Lamont anxious to see him again. But the speedy outfielder will likely be with South Bend until at least Saturday nursing a shoulder injury. 
Milwaulkee Brewer fans will recognize shortstop Billy Spiers, also on rehab from the parent club. South Bend also features two brothers of Major League players, shortstop Glen DiSarcina (brother of Angels' Gary) and first-baseman Troy Fryman (brother of Tigers' Travis). 
As for the future, keep an eye on Sox second-baseman and lead-off man Essex Burton, whose 58 stolen bases lead the league. Closer Jeff Pierce (3-5, 1.98 ERA, 29 saves) hopes to follow the road Scott Radinsky and Roberto Hernandez blazed from the bullpen in Coveleski to the one in new Comiskey. 

The South Bend White Sox have great success at the box office. Since their initiation in 1988, the club has drawn over one-million home fans. At Tuesday night's double­header, South Bend resident Dan Czerna was the lucky millionth to cross the turnstiles, winning a trip for two to Montigo Bay among other prizes. 
Although the Sox can't offer all Notre Dame students a Jamaican vacation, they are offering a free night of quality baseball. 
"We'd just like to let students know that there's a good, quality Single-A baseball team in South Bend and we always welcome them out to the park," says Baxter. 





