
VOL. XXIV NO. 85 

~M~lit .Q~­
e Observer SillmMa~~~~~
NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 

FRIDAY ,JANUARY31, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Democrats vow quick action on revised budget 
WASHINGTON (AP) Democrats promised Thursday to speed an economic recovery package through Congress, but vowed to rearrange President Bush's budget proposal to ben­efit middle-income Americans, not the rich. 
"Democrats will not obstruct, but we will try to improve the president's package," said House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo., as the Budget Committee began hearings on the spending plan Bush pre­sented Wednesday. 
Gephardt said Democrats "will provide a clear distinction between the allegiances and ambitions of the two political 
Cat, mouse cause of power failure 
By JOHN CONNORTON 
News Writer 
In the ultimate "Tom and JerryM scenerio, nearly half of the Notre Dame campus was plunged into darkness yester­day when a cat chasing a mouse across two wires short­circuited fuses in the substation that connects the campus with the I&M power station. 
The loss of power was most severe on the western half of the campus, along Juniper Road, said John DeLee, Direc­tor of Utilities for the Univer­sity. 
Numerous buildings, includ­ing the Computer and Mathe­matics Building, Crowley Hall of Music, Hayes-Healy Center, Hurley Hall of Business Admin­istration, the South Dining Hall and the Notre Dame Law School, were left in the dark, forcing many professors to cancel class. 
Notre Dame sports facilities were effected as well. Loftus, the JACC, and the Eck Tennis Pavilion also lost power during the blackout. 
Every floor above the second in the Hesburgh Library lost power, further eliminating nu­merous class space. 
Although only one-third of 
see BLACKOUT I page 4 
parties." raised and how to awaken the 
White House budget director economy. Richard Darman told the panel With Democrats dedicated to that the $1 52 trmjop spepdjpg making the recession the year's 
political issue, Bush advanced a
• Economic report/ page 7 
budget with no federal program
• Mayor's reaction to budget 
that directly creates jobs and no proposal I page 7 broad, immediate tax cut for 
middle-income workers. blueprint was "clearly a serious Democrats are pressing for both plan" for shoving the economy approaches. out of the recession it has been Instead, Bush wants to reduce mired in since July 1990. the amount of taxes the 
He defended the president's government withholds from demand that Congress enact by paychecks beginning in March. March 20 tax breaks for prop­That would give the average erty owners, businesses, home person $300 this year that buyers and others, saying, "The would otherwise not be avail­country needs it." able until 1993's tax refund 
The session signaled rough checks. 

By AMY GREENWOOD 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
A pair of dogs attacked a female Notre Dame student and an unidentified male near the Notre Dame campus last night in separate incidents. 
The female student was at­tacked at approximately 9:30 
p.m. as she approached her Campus View apartment. "One of the dogs apparently came from behind and bit her," ac­cording to Officer Eric Rucker of the St. Joseph Humane Soci­ety. The attack was unpro­voked. 
The male victim was attacked by two dogs about 10 minutes earlier, outside Mike's Restau­rant, 18127 State Rd. 23. "The male victim's injuries were much more severe," said Kris Rybicki of the St. Joseph County Humane Society. 
One dog bit the man's arm while the other attacked his foot and then his heel. The man is now undergoing treatment for rabies. 
The pair of dogs have been described as 45-60 pounds and of medium height. One dog, a pit bull or pit bull mix is of brownish-red coloring and has 
The Observer/John Rock 

a short snout. It is believed to 
have attacked the female vic­tim.
Ephemeral art 
Unless cooler temperatures forecast over the weekend prevail, 
The other dog is black, but no 
specific description of his breed
this snow sculpture by David DeSalle and Mike Whitman (left to 
is available at this time. 
right) on Holy Cross Hill will soon perish. 

He also proposed nearly halving the top rate on the capital gains tax, paid on profits from sales of stocks and other property. Bush says that plan, rejected before by Congress, would stimulate the economy and create jobs. 
In addition, Bush would give tax breaks to first-time home­buyers, students, businesses making investments and buyers of expensive yachts and planes. 
He would shrink Pentagon spending by $50 billion over the next five years beyond already­planned cuts and eliminate or reduce 330 other federal pro­grams. 
Dogs attack NO female and unidentified male 
The St. Joseph County Hu­mane Society has advised resi­dents of the area bounded by Douglas, Ironwood, State Road 23, and Juniper streets to use caution when they are outside. 
"People on the Notre Dame campus should also be aware of the situation because dogs often travel around and do not stay in one specific area,M warned Rybicki. 
The dogs are considered dan­gerous and will attack even if they are not provoked, she said. Often dogs become more vicious when they travel in pairs. 
The St. Joseph Humane Soci­ety is conducting an ongoing search for the dogs in the area of the attacks as well as the owner or owners. 
"At this time we do have three suspected dog owners in the immediate area who harbor this breed of dog,M said Rucker. "We have also had complaints about these dogs in the past. M 
The dog owners are legally and financially responsible for the attacks and any injuries or costs resulting from them. 
The Humane Society has ad­vised people not to panic if anyone encounters either of these dogs. "Use extreme cau­tion," said Rucker, "because the dogs will most likely be silent. 
The Humane Society warns people walking in unknown ar­
see DOGS I page 4 

Kelly examines ethics of 'manipulating reality' in photos 
By KERRY COLLIGAN war photography, even if I hac calls poured into their office. reader/viewer, and the obvious News Writer a bullet-proof everything." Th1 Anxious readers questioned, interpretations of the pho­train shot is only one of the five "When will they march again?" tographs should be considered. "Manipulating Reality" is a "near death" experiences he 
and "How long will they be in Yet, the decision remains for 
pressing issue in photo-journal­has endured while on assign­town?" the editors, he added. ism today. Tony Kelly, a leading ment. Another of his reasons Clearly, said Kelly, this pho­If computer enhanced, com­photographer and professor at for switching was that, tograph was misunderstood by puter generated, or computer the Medill School of Journalism " ... everything is going to visual the general public. This situa­altered photographs are used, at Northwestern University, because the complexity can only tion raises a few questions, he the publication runs the risk of presented his views on the be registered that way... " he said, where do editors draw the losing credibility, said Kelly. 
ethics of manipulating said. line? Which photographs are Kelly described a situation in photographs in a lecture With photos illustrating acceptable, and which are not? which when reporting the ex­Thursday evening. techniques and examples, Kelly The answers to these ques­plosion of the Space Shuttle 
Kelly began his journalism informed those present of the tions are widely debated-de­Columbia, "The Orange Country career with a pen but switched technological problem of ma­bated to the extent that Kelly Register" altered a photograph to a camera, citing the elements nipulating reality in photogra­offered no answers. However, of the incident which they re­
Tony Kelly 

of excitement and danger for phy. There was a time when he stated, "I think the average ceived. The sky appeared very his move to photo-journalism. ethical questions in photogra­of a button, he added. Joe or Jane walking along, I dark, almost black in the actual 
On assignment in a rail yard, phy involved only maintaining Picture downtown Toronto. think a tremendous percentage photo. In the newspaper, the Kelly was almost run over by a privacy, said Kelly. However, The "Toronto Sun" ran a com­of them just assume they are picture showed a clear, blue train while lying on the tracks with the development of puter generated photograph of looking at an (actual photo­sky. Whether or not this action in preparation for a shot. How­$55,000 computer systems, Russian troops marching graph)." is ethical, the newspaper lost ever, Kelly confesses that, photographs can be altered, for through the downtown area, He also mentioned that the " ... I've alway:; chickened-out of whatever purpose, at the touch said Kelly. Countless telephone expectations of the see ETHICS I page 4 
page 2 Friday, January 31,1992 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Beware of Student Body elections 
"Deck the halls with useless fliers (ja Ia Ia Ia laaa. Ia Ia Ia Ia) 'Tis the season for great liars (ja Ia Ia Ia laaa, Ia Ia Ia Ia)" 
It's that time of year again, folks. The petitions are circulating, the flyers are Paul Pearson being written, and the 
Asst. News 
whole campus is bravely 
Editor 
free-falling toward that ------­wonderful moment in our lives (drumroll, please)-the student government elections! For those of you not familiar with the process, at about this time, candidates for various student offices. from Student Body President to Pooper-Scooper Committee Chairperson, start passing out fliers and telling anyone near enough to listen why they are the right ones for the office. In the past, some candidates have displayed, well, less-than-fully-commendable qualities on their way to elected positions. Here are a few characteristics to beware of in particular: 
• 
Use of ulterior motives. In 1990, one ticket for student body president and vice president, Vinny Sanchez and Melissa Smith, violated some archaic rule against putting up table tents in the dining halls. In a Senate meeting held to discuss this violation, two members of opposing tickets (including eventual winner Rob Pasin) failed to see the obvious conflict of interest and voted to sanction and fine the Sanche:z/Smith ticket. 

• 
Naivete. These same candidates were obviously under the impression that college students select their leaders on the basis of table tents. 

• 
Lack of backbone. Even though the Student Senate violated its own appropriations policy with its special funding of Right to Life, they recently voted down a resolution that would have formally admitted it. 

• 
Secretiveness. Earlier this month. at the one HPC meeting that would have drawn an actual audience. the council decided that, in order to "prevent misrepresentation of what occurred at the meeting," (read: to make sure only the official version of the truth got out), closed the meeting to the public. 

• 
Obsession with "the rules." A candidate should not become so bound to the policies of past administrations that they eliminate the possibility for improvement. The same arcane rule that prohibited a thing ao silly as table tents in the dining hall (and possibly cost Sanchez/Smith the election) is still on the books. And. finally ... 

• 
Lack of concrete issues. Some of the recent elections have boiled down to a question of who promised to get more soft drink machines for the dining halls. A candidate who promises nothing, in my opinion, is worse than a candidate who promises ev­erything-instead of failing to meet expecta­tions, that candidate sets up no expectations at all. Now that you are armed with these warnings. you can help set a brand new precedent at ND-an election with actual campaign substance. 


The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Friday's Staff Production 
Sports
Peggy Crooks 
Rene Ferran Bryan Nowicki News Accent Meredith McCullough Shonda Wilson Steve Zavestoski Cristina Oritz Graphics Gerrie Hamilton Brendan Regan Cheryi~~Aa~s~e~r____________ 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
H l 

39  25  
50  48  
66  39  
32  28  
82  68  
33  28  
59  25  
39  25  
·02  ·07  
56  35  
Honolulu  83  72  
..  Houston  54  52  
::::  london  45  39  
69  52  
n  72  
27  22  
41  31  
39  30  
46  26  
84  59  
70  50  
38  28  
59  39  
57  34  

D.C. 48 29


H L b~'~l ~ m 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
··:::: :·:::::: 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Irish Prime Minister to resign 
• DUBLIN, Ireland -Prime Minister Charles Haughey. whose administration has been rocked by scandals, has told members of his party that he will resign next week, his office said today. First word of Haughey's intention to step down came from a senator who attended a party meeting. today. Haughey, who has led the Fianna Fail party since 1979 and is serving his fourth term as prime minister, resigned at the insistence of the junior partner in his coalition government. Haughey, 66, had come under fire after one of his former close allies publicly accused him of lying about a 10-year-old wiretapping scandal. 
NATIONAL 

Sea lion takes to road 
• SAN DIEGO -Earlier this week a San Diego resident stopped his pickup to let a 6-foot-long, 400-pound sea lion get across a busy road leading to a shopping center. "It was unbelievable. He was huge," said Bill Bronsky, who was leaving the center Tuesday when the male sea lion flopped out of the San Diego River and waddled across Avenida del Rio. The sea lion, more than a mile away from the ocean, probably crossed the road because that stretch of the river is shallow and choked with plants. The sea lion has cruised the river for at least six months, but Tuesday was the first time it was seen jaywalking. 
OF INTEREST 
• 
Students for Environmental Action will hold an important organizational meeting Sunday at 7 p.m. in Montgomery Theater, LaFortune. 

• 
Amnesty International Group #43 will be meeting Sunday at 8:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater of LaFor-


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ January 30 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 248,970,500 226.64 • 2.31 ~...._..._:s&l COMPOSITE 410.34 .. 4.62 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3224.96 .. 47.18 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD{} $0.20 to $356.10/oz. 
SILVER 'ft 6.0¢ to $4.248/oz. 

Tyson trial underway 
• INDIANAPOLIS -Mike Tyson awakened a beauty pageant contestant with a call from his limousine and coaxed her to his hotel room, where he raped her, then asked her to spend the night. a prosecutor said today. The 18-year­old youngster told her mother the Mike Tyson next day. "He raped me," special prosecutor Greg Garrison told the mostly white, mostly male jury hearing the case against the 25-year-old black fighter. Tyson is accused of raping a Miss Black America contestant on July 19. If convicted, he could spend up to 63 years behind bars. "That sex was consensual," said defense lawyer Vincent Fuller. "We believe the evidence will demonstrate to your satisfaction and leave you little doubt about it." 
CAMPUS 

Snite to hold "Day of Woman" 
• SOUTH BEND -A second "Day of Women" will be held at the Snite Museum Saturday in celebration of women from around the world who are associated with Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College and the Michiana community. The program will begin at 9 a.m. with a panel discussion, "Women and Education." At 10:30 a.m. a slide lecture, "Women in Islamic Art" will be presented, and at 11:30 a.m. a concert of Japanese koto music will be given by local women. At 1:15 p.m. a panel discussion. "Women and Social Change," will be held, and at 2:45 
p.m. there will be a poetry and fiction reading. A reception at Greenfields Cafe in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies will follow. 
tune. 

• The Morrissey Film Festival will be held on Febru­ary 28. Start making your dorm's entry now. Films should be less than eight minutes. Talk to your hall pres­ident or call 283-3593 with any questions. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1797: Composer Franz Schubert was born in Vienna, Austria. 

• 
In 1865: General Robert E. Lee was named commander­in-chief of the Confederate armies. 

•In 
1949: The first TV daytime soap opera, "These Are My Children," was broadcast from the NBC station in Chicago. 

• 
In 1950: President Truman announced he had ordered development of the hydrogen bomb. 

• 
In 1971: Astronauts Alan B. Shepard Jr., Edgar Mitchell and Stuart Roosa blasted off aboard Apollo 14, the first U.S. moon mission since the ill-fated flight of Ap0llo 13. 


The Observer 

Friday, January 31,1992 
Service focus of NASCCU 
By GERALDINE HAMILTON News Writer 
This weekend the third an­nual national conference of the National Association of Students at Catholic Colleges and Universities (NASCCU) will be held on the Notre Dame cam­pus. The theme of this years meeting is "Service in Society: The Role of the Catholic Uni­versity and College." 
The conference will accom­plish its goals if "it is able to put together a unified statement about what students' views are about what Catholic universities and colleges should be doing about service in schools and the issue of volunteerism," according to Chris Soller, NASCCU president Notre Dame senior. 
NASCCU was "created to be a forum where students could come to discuss issues," said Soller. The purpose of the or­ganization is "to strengthen Catholic education through open forums and insightful dis­cussions," he added. It "serves to unite catholic students from universities and colleges. One hundred and fifty schools are involved and discuss unique is­sues, such as parietals." 
There will be 120 representa­tives from approximately 35 schools attending the meeting. The keynote address will be given by Father William Bryon, president of the Catholic Uni­versity of America and also a member of the Board of Direc­tors of the Presidents Commis­sion on National and Commu­nity Service. The address will be open to the public and will be held on Friday night at 8 
p.m. at the Center for Continuing Education auditorium. There is no admission. 
The agenda for the rest of the weekend includes Saturday morning issue discussion groups which will be led by Notre Dame faculty members. Some of the topics for the dis­cussion groups are: AIDS, vol­unteerism, service after college and the changing role of women in the church. 
After lunch the focus will be on the NASCCU topic of service in the society. Afterwards there will be a dinner in the CCE and the speakers will be the Provost and Sue Cunningham, coordina­tor of Urban Plunge/ Summer Service at the Center for Social Concerns. Sunday morning elections will be held for next years NASCCU offices. 
Notre Dame was the first meeting place of the conference a year after it was founded in 1989. Last year Dayton Univer­sity was the host. Soller, Joe Cataldo and Jon Barger are the organizers of this weekends ac­tivities. 
UN summit to decide peace policy 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­President Bush and the world's other top leaders gathered Thursday for an unprecedented Security Council summit to co­ordinate policy on peacekeep­ing, disarmament and quelling aggression. 
On the eve of the high-profile, 15-nation gathering, U.N. diplomats wrapped up days of arduous wrangling over whether to also emphasize hu­man rights, democracy and economic justice and sent a fi. nal text to their leaders for ap­proval. 
In the end, those points were included, but often in language diluted from earlier drafts. British Prime Minister John Major will preside over Friday's summit, the first of its kind in the council's 46-year history. Thirteen heads of state or gov­ernment will sit with him at the circular table in the council's chamber, along with two for-

John Major 
eign ministers. 
"The Security Council is more and more the focus of all the work that is being done in col­lective security against aggres­sion and against threats to in­ternational peace and security," said the British ambassador, Sir David Hannay. 
Britain is president of the council this month, and Major proposed the summit. 
The council's new high profile was underlined last year by its role in the Gulf War. The summit was spurred by changes in the wake of the Cold War's end, including the breakup of the Soviet Union. 
Ambassadors of the 15 coun­cil nations reached general agreement Thursday on the text of the non-binding communique to be issued by the leaders on Friday and sent it to their respective governments for approval, said Hannay and U.S. Ambassador Thomas Pickering. 
Hannay said he believed the draft communique had "very broad support" but said more consultations could take place. The document was to be adopted by consensus, without a vote. 
China tried to minimize refer­ences to human rights, "democracy and representative forms of government." India, which has not signed the Nu­clear Nonproliferation Treaty, was reluctant to endorse nu­clear disarmament. 
~ THIS FRIDAY ~ 
LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS 
~ ~ 
SUPPORT SPECIAL OLYMPICS SUPPORT YOUR HALL'S TEAMS 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 31 
8:00PM-4:00AM 


PORTSSPORTSSPORTSSPORTSSPORTSSPORTSS OODFOODFOODFOODFOODFOODFOODFOODFOO [FUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUN 
$1.00 DONATION AT THE DOOR 
ALL PROCEEDS GO TO ST. JOSEPHCOUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
page 3 
The observer/John Rock 

In ac"chord" 

David Kerr, a sophomore from Morrissey Hall, took the stage last night during an "acoustical jam" in the basement of LaFortune. 

page 4 
Blackout 
continued from page 1 
the buildings on campus actu­ally lost power, the effect was far reaching. "Nearly half of the campus uses the blacked-out buildings so the whole incident was really disruptive of work," said Cynthia Scott. Assistant Director of Public Relations at Notre Dame. "They were all very irked over there." 
Not everyone. Many students rejoiced in their temporary re­prieve from classes and re­turned to their dorms to alert those lucky enough to be ef­feeted by the blackout that classes were cancelled. 
The incident occurred shortly before 9 a.m., DeLee said. Although power was restored to a few buildings a short time after the blackout. full power was not available to all the af­fected buildings until late in the afternoon. 
Maintenance workers at the power plant spent nearly the entire day working to restore power. 
"The animals were electro­cuted and blew up the transfer box," said DeLee. "The whole area had to be disassembled and cleaned before power could be restored to the campus." 
This kind of occurrence is not unusual, said Scott. "Sometimes, small animals can wreak all kinds of havoc." 
The Observer 


Dogs 
continued from page 1 
eas to continually check behind them and not to turn their backs on the dogs. "Maintain 
Ethics 
continued from page 1 credibility. It had used the color of the sky so often, that it became known as "Register blue." Another questionable 
The Observer/John Rock The breakdown of this power unit, located behind the Fischer Graduate Residence Complex, was the reason for yesterday's power outage. Crews worked until the afternoon to repair the unit. 
eye contact with it or it will at­tack." Rucker advised. 
Any information about the dogs can be reported by calling the St. Joseph County Humane Society at 255-4726 or the St. Joseph County Police at 284­9611. 
decision arises, said Kelly. Should the editor alter the photograph in an effort to beautify it? Or, is it more important for the photograph to illustrate history accurately in this case? Again, there is no all encompassing answer, only opinion, according to Kelly. 
This example of personalized attention is just one of the reasons our classes are filling up fast. Call now to reserve a seat. 
• 
10 Students Per Class 


• 
100 Hours Of Live Instruction 

• 
50 Hours Of Live TUtorial 

• 
National 800 Telephone Helpline 

• 
3 Computer-Scored Diagnostic Tests 

• 
Science Flash Cards 


• 
Materials Written By Ph.D.s & M.D.s 


Friday, January 31,1992 

SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, JAN. 27 

Noon A Notre Dame faculty member reported she lost her parking decal. 
5:59 p.m. Three Grace Hall residents reported the theft of their clothing from their unlocked dorm room. 
TUESDAY, JAN. 28 

8:30 a.m. A University employee re· ported he lost his B-17 parking decal. 
1:30 p.m. A University employee re­ported vandalism to the Cedar Grove Chapel. A window had been broken. 2;08 p.m. A Notre Dame student re· ported the theft of the headlight trim from his vehicle while it was parked in the C-1 parking lot. 
2:15 p.m. An Alumni Hall resident re­ported the theft of his jacket from the basement of South Dining HaiL 
2:30 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident re· ported the theft of his locked bicycle from the Fisher bike rack. 
WEDNESDAY,JAN.29 

10:45 p.m. Notre Dame Security dis­covered a decal-one that had been re· ported lost or stolen-in another person's vehicle. The suspect In this case was identified and questioned at the scene. 
7:30 p.m. A Sorin Hall resident re­ported the theft of his jacket from the basement of the SOuth Dining Hall. 
Please Recycle Your OBSERVER 
AT THE RONKIN EDUCATIONAL GR'JUP OUR CLASS SIZES ARE LIMITED TO NO MORE THAN 10 STUDENTS PER CLASS. 

l;lOb
fDUCATIOIAl GROUP

WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 

STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM OP AT THE LAFORTONE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS FEBROARY 21, 1992 
Friday, January 31,1992 
CSCE offers 10 former republics membership 
PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia (AP) -The Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe on Thursday accepted 10 former Soviet republics as members in hopes of binding them to Euro­pean and American traditions of democracy. 
"The decision to create not a geographical but a political Eu­rope is now irreversible," Ital­ian Foreign Minister Gianni de Michaelis told reporters. "Today we have laid down the first important element of a new world order." 
Saying the CSCE had served as "the conscience of the conti­nent," U.S. Secretary of State James Baker III said the group now faced the challenge of ex­tending its values to the new independent states. 
"CSCE can serve as a com­pass" to guide the states to democracy and free market economies, Baker said. 
He spoke to the meeting of foreign ministers on a brief stopover between Middle East talks in Moscow and a U.N. Se­curity Council meeting in New York. 
T·he CSCE, which began as a community of 32 European na­tions, the Soviet Union, the United States and Canada with the signing of the Helsinki Ac­cords in 1975, now encom­passes the northern hemisphere from San Francisco to Vladivostok, embracing 48 states. 
The Helsinki Accords and subsequent CSCE documents helped the West press Eastern European nations to abide by human rights commitments. 
The former Soviet states are obligated to undertake those commitments, as well as those concerning security and arms control. 
"The old orders are falling apart and it is our task to build new ones," Czechoslovak Presi­dent Vaclav Havel said in his opening address. 
Nationalism and its potential for violence in Yugoslavia and the Caucasus mountains have led the CSCE to focus on how it might prevent conflict. 
The ministers adopted a doc­ument urging better crisis management. But a peacekeep­ing force advocated by Hans­Dietrich Genscher, the German foreign minister, looks distant at best. 

The Observer/John Rock 

More than a handful 
Sophomores Rick Schaupp (left) and Dave Nathe of Grace and Dillon Halls, respectively, express their delight in picking up their laundry crisp and clean for the upcoming weekend. 

Student Government Presents ... A Public Forum on Contemporary Issues with 
American Red Cross 


President and ChiefExecutive Officer United Negro College Fund 
During Mr. Gray's tenure in the House of Representatives, he became the first black Member of Congress to hold a position in House leadership. 
"Challenges, Changes, and Opportunities in Education, and Why I Decided to Leave the House." 
Monday, February 3, 1992 7:30pm Library Auditorium 
This lecture was made possible through the generosity of several members ofthe Arts & Letters Council and the Business College Council. 


kinko•s 
the copy center 
Late Night Olympics 
Friday January 31, 8 pm -4 am Please support Special Olympics 

ALL YOU CAN EAT Children Under 10 HaH Price Includes Soup. Appelizer. 8 Entrees and Dessef1 (OII'W menu 1t/lffiS also a•·a•labilf' 130 Dixie Way S., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn\ 2 
ANYONEFO LUNCH AT THE IN..AND..QUT 
The Observer 
Friday, January 31,1992 

China strives to repair image 

HONG KONG (AP) -From the 
release of political dissidents to 
a media campaign pledging 
new economic reforms, China 
has launched a grand public 
relations exercise to bury 
memories of Tiananmen 
Square. 

Spearheaded by the first visit 
of Premier Li Peng to the West 
since the 1989 crackdown on 
the pro-democracy movement, 
the drive is one of China's most 
sophisticated attempts to repair 
its image. 

China's goal seems to be new 
investment from the West and 
elevation into the role of a 
world power, a status Beijing 
especially covets following the 
collapse of the Soviet Union. 

New investment and trade would help China's Communist Party maintain strong economic growth and satisfy rising expectations of China's 1.1 bil­lion people. Increased interna­tional prestige would bolster the domestic stature of Beijing's leaders. 
Li has been visiting in Europe and is coming to New York for a 
U.N. Security Council summit Friday. He reportedly will meet briefly with President Bush -a major public relations victory for a figure so closely associ­ated with China's crackdown on dissent. 
The United States is a main target of China's image cam­paign. 
China is fresh from tough trade negotiations with Wash­ington over intellectual prop­
liPeng 

erty and copyright protection. Later this year, Beijing faces a battle in the U.S. Congress over the renewal of China's most-fa­vored-nation trade status, which guarantees the lowest 
U.S. tariffs for Chinese goods. 
Chinese officials are waging a sophisticated campaign ­broadcasting some stories do­mestically while using pro-Bei­jing papers in Hong Kong to serve others up for foreign consumption alone. 
When paramount leader Deng Xiaoping surfaced in southern China last week in his first public appearance in a year, China's state-run media was si­lent while the story made front pages in Hong Kong. China's media also did not mention Deng's praise of capitalism. 
Reports Saturday that China released nine more dissidents jailed for their roles in the democracy movement also were not publicized at home. 
The latest volley in the cam­
paign was fired Thursday; it 
also was directed abroad. 
An official Chinese magazine 
published in Hong Kong said 
the Communist Party will 
downplay ideology and promote 
"pragmatic cadres" at the party 
congress next autumn. 
Bauhunia magazine said China 
is committed to pursuing 
"political consultation" and el­
evating "younger, more ener­
getic" officials. 
Chinese media have been cov­
ering Li's visit to Italy, Switzer­
land, Spain and Portugal, but it 
has been selective about the 
trip, which has drawn protest 
demonstrations. 

For instance, the official Xin­hua News Agency made no mention of Swiss Justice Minis­ter Jean-Pascal Delamuraz canceling a lunch with Li be­cause of human rights con­cerns. Instead, the news agency focused on trade. 
China's campaign combines fact with questionable claims. On one hand, China seems seri­ous about economic reforms, but talk of more freedom ap­pears designed only to assuage critics in the West. 
On Thursday, the Bauhunia article credited the fall of communism in the Soviet bloc with keeping China's party united in its support of eco­nomic reforms. Deng was quoted in Hong Kong's pro­Beijing papers Tuesday as say­ing the Communists will lose power if they don't reform the economy. 


% 
12 Month Certificate of Deposit 
Interest Paid at Maturity • $2,000 Minimum Deposit 
6.00% 
12 month IRA Certificate of Deposit Interest paid at maturity • $500 minimum deposit 
6.00% 
IRA Savings • Interest paid monthly • $100 minimum deposit 
Annual interest rates listed above are subject to change without notice. Substantial penalty for early withdrawal. Call today to see how you may qualify for ere~ 4Mlion membership. 
0 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
(219) 239-6611 

Independent from the University of Notre Dame 


Free -ONE MONTH RENT Come see us: Mon Feb.3 at LaFortune Til February 1st 

Tues Feb. 4 at LeMans Looking for staff in sailing, swimming,
No Security Deposit Friday, January 31,1992 
Unfavorable economic news reported by U.S. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -In a rash of discouraging economic news, the government said Thursday that orders to facto­ries for durable goods dropped sharply in December and busi­ness layoffs were continuing to rise through the middle of this month. 
A separate report said con­sumers' spending was up only slightly last month in yet an­other sign of economic stagna­tion. Americans' personal in­come was up, but that was partly due to rising jobless payments because of the na­tional economic slump. 
U.S. businesses -and the Bush administration -are anxiously seeking any sign of revival. But Gilbert Benz, an economist with the Swiss Bank Corp. in New York, said the re­ports suggested "there basically will be no growth in the first quarter of this year." 
"The economy is kind of standing on rubbery legs," con­curred economist Robert Ded­erick of the Northern Trust Co. in Chicago. "It isn't falling down. It's maintaining its equi­librium, but it can do no more." 
President Bush did not com­ment on the new reports during a speech to businessmen in Philadelphia but saw reason for hope in other economic signs. He said, "Inflation is down; in­ventories are down; the market has been expressing optimism in the future; interest rates are down and this is no time for gloom and doom." 
The Commerce Department reported that orders for long­lasting, usually expensive durable goods such as cars and computers fell to a seasonally adjusted $117.7 billion in De­cember. The 5 percent decline was the largest since orders percent for all of 1991, the largest loss since the recession year of 1982 when they fell 6.7 percent. 
plunged  11.2  percent  in  
November 1990.  
Orders  were  down  4.6  

Transportation orders were down 13.9 percent in Decem­ber, accounting for most of the overall decline. If not for the transportation problems, total orders would have been down just 1.6 percent. 
On the other hand, military orders soared 86 percent and without that gain the overall orders decline would have been a staggering 8.9 percent. Mili­tary hardware orders are ex­pected to decline in coming months because of cutbacks in the Pentagon budget. 
In a second report, the Com­merce Department said con­sumer spending slowed to a 0.3 percent gain from November's 
0.4 percent increase. Spending was up just 3.9 percent for the year after rising 6.4 percent in 1990. 
Larry Meyer of Laurence H. Meyer & Associates, a St. Louis economic forecasting service, said, "Confidence is still down; the unemployment rate will probably continue to grow. We're not likely to see much more than 1 percent growth in consumption in the first quar­ter." 
That would bode ill for the economy, since consumer spending accounts for two­thirds of the nation's economic activity. 
While personal incomes jumped 1 percent in December, the department said half of that gain was due to increased unemployment insurance and farm subsidy payments and a one-time bonus for automobile workers. 
The income gain for the year was 3.3 percent, less than half the 6.8 percent advance in 1990 and barely beating a 3.1 percent increase in inflation. 
The Observer 
The Observer/John Rock 

Taking care of dirty laundry 
Stan Tuholski, a sophomore from Carroll Hall, picks up his formerly dirty clothes from Joan Blackford at the distribution center. With fewer coin operated washing machines on campus, many male students are turning to the laundry service to take care of their dirty laundry. 
Proposal fails to impress mayors 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The nation's mayors voiced disap­pointment with President Bush's budget proposal Thurs­day, saying it cuts urban pro­grams and fails to provide an economic stimulus that would create jobs. 
"This is an emergency, and it demands an emergency re­sponse," Baltimore's Demo­cratic Mayor Kurt Schmoke told the Senate Banking Committee. 
"The most efficient and effec­tive way in which Congress can address the urgent needs of the cities is to pass a targeted fiscal 
~ ~ f>f:G 
· • -ntc:'

Free Garage or Carport 
FOONTAol\l 

(while availability last) Free Remington Court MOVING VAN! Free MINI & VERTICAL 
Blinds Included ~ Washer $ Dryers Free Microwaves ~Alarm Systems 
ON MAIN ST. 255-7777 
BETWEEN McKINLEY 
2 Bedroom also available 
& EDISON 
assistance bill which targets aid directly to cities," he said. 
Bridgeport, Conn., Mayor Joseph Ganim, whose city be­came the first in the nation to seek federal bankruptcy protec­tion, called on Congress to in­crease grants to cities, stop imposing mandated programs, increase funding for social programs and law enforcement, and ban assault weapons. 
Although Bridgeport's bankruptcy petition, filed by Ganim's predecessor, was de­nied, the move focused national attention on the financial diffi­culties confronting cities. 
The U.S. Conference of May­ors, in an analysis of Bush's proposed budget for fiscal 1993, said it would reduce the Community Development Block Grant program by $500 million, 
LIKE CHD.DREN? ~"L.a..< THE OUTDOORS? Be a counselor this summer at Camp Foley in Pine River MN 
b~g,windsurf"~g,te~,waterskiUng, 
fencing, lancing, archery, riflery, crafts, & 
~--------------~m=or~e~·~··~-------------­


A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
.. 
A A 
IT A SUMO WRFSTLER •.. 
OR BETH HOWELLS! 
HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAYI LOVE, 
the 
PANGBORN BOYS 

to $2.9 billion. Congress re­jected a similar proposal from Bush last year. 
The conference also com­plained about proposed cuts in environmental aid and in public housing rental assistance and construction. 
"What we need in the cities is three things -jobs, housing and a sense of hope," Shmoke said at a news conference. "And we're not sure we have seen that." 
To illustrate the impact of cuts in aid to cities over the past decade, the conference pointed to eight key urban pro­grams that in 1981 provided $23.7 billion to cities. If ad­justed for inflation, they would amount to $37.3 billion. In Bush's budget, those programs would receive $13.1 billion. 


Viewpoint 
page 8 Friday, January 31, 1992 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged.  Mr.Speaker,Mr.President,distinguishedmembersofcongress,honoredgu estsandfellowcitizens: I meantospeakto nig htofbigth ings,ofbigchanges andthepromisestheyholdandofsomebigproblemsandhowtogetherwecan solvethem eor!n)'lforw astheur!,..=~out£: 'eroftheage. Wegather: ig a . at1 pdd rhistory,an1 dinthehis ofm nor \rin A ' hasknown changes m ibiLEprJrt 5} :terthefail edcoupth daf dsy ~ edthefulli mpact,thefu -ortof , atha · nasPresident,withthemostfasc ,atingpo blevantagepoint, therewer etimeswhenlwassobusyhelpingtomanageprogressandleadchangethatld idn 'talwaysshowthejoythatwasin my heart. Buthtebiggestth ingthathas happenedintheworld in my life, inou rlives, isthis: Bytheg raceofGod ,Amer icahaswontheco ldwar .I meantospeakth iseven i ngofthechang esthatcan t akeplaceinourcountrynowthatwecanstopmakingthesacrificeswehadto makewhenwehadanavowedenemythatwasasuperpower.Nowwecanlook homewardevenmore,andmovetosetrightwhatneedstobesetright. THE STATE OF THE UNION ~fMI»j  

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Lunch fast helps needy people around the world 
Dear Editor: 
Every Wednesday last semester 650 Notre Dame stu­dents went without lunch. Their fast generated over $7,000 which is being sent by the World Hunger Coalition to hunger relief projects around the world. We have become so used to the idea of the weekly fast that we lose sight of how unusual it is. In my work with the Center for Social Concerns I am in contact with colleges and universities all over the United States. As far as I know our weekly fast is unique. Some schools have a hunger aware­ness/fund raising event once a year or once a semester. Some of them have worked with food services to get money back on one or two meals a year. When I tell them that we have ar­ranged a weekly fast, they are amazed. 
During the past year, the World Hunger Coalition has been able to give approximately $14,000 to projects in Bangladesh, Argentina, and Chile. It reminds me of the story of the loaves and fishes. 
DOONESBURY 

Each student who offers to give up lunch every Wednesday is like the young boy who gave Jesus his bit of food. The result of these small acts of charity is the multiplication of our resources. We are able, with the cooperation of many, including our food services, to collect a significant amount of money that will make a differ­ence to people across the world. 
This every day miracle is hap­pening in our midst, and I be­lieve that sometimes we are so busy looking for big miracle that we miss the small ones. I want to thank the World Hunger Coalition and all the students who have given their loaves and fishes for this small gift that reaps great rewards. 
If anyone is interested in signing up for this semester's Wednesday fast, call 283-2622 and leave your name and 1.0. number on Kara's answering machine. 
Kathy Royer Coordinator of Service and Social Action Groups 
Jan.28,1992 
I (N)t HOP& IT'S N(JTA 
Tl?AIN ClJW}J{j THe OTHtRUJ4Y. 
U/liU.-,!511/IlllJHEK,W&,tM A caJNTll:'IMU51CFM. I !Die fT, AJJ<IAY5 HAVE::. crJf!/3N'TFIT THeMCW OF~OF THe Cf1; fM./1515, I MIGHTAW, 8lfT ~-OFWHifT'!HeY 
~ THINK I CXJGHT70FITIN,81JT 
Mr. Lamkin is horribly inaccu­Belfast, with its crime and pol­send money and weapons to rate in blaming the IRA for the lution, is one of the worst cities Irish combatants. Were it not problems which exist in Belfast. in Europe, and the fact that it is for this ill-informed and The City if Belfast has been in a governed by rich nobles in misguided group, the IRA itself permanent recession since the London has not helped the situ­would cease to exist. In truth end of World War II, when the ation. The aggression that is the IRA finds its roots with city's two main industries, shown by the IRA is simply the Irish-Americans, the very peo­shipbuilding and linen, response to the dire straits in ple who complain of violence in suddenly lost importance and which they live. their native land. became obsolete. Since then I weep that violence must the unemployment figure has They are less in the job of plague the people of a land as hovered around 20 percent. hunting down Protestants than beautiful and serene as Ireland. 
Mr. Lamkin, along with of making a statement to the The tears that fall for the Irish American television and radio, British Government. They people, however, do not match have given to the American rarely intentionally kill civilians, those that fall upon reading as people the idea that Ireland is a and often give warnings before a misinterpreted, narrow­country not to be travelled to, blowing up crowded depart­minded view of the Emerald that any tourist runs the risk of ment stores or other public Isle. being shot down or killed in a places. The UFF (Ulster Nicholas Lloyd bomb attack. With the excep­Freedom Fighters), however is Flanner Hall tion of a few areas in the North, a terrorist organization that Jan.23,1992 

Viewpoint
Friday, January 31, 1992 page 9 
Professor experiences cosmic linkup with Bush 
It would be easy to start this column by saying something clever-sounding like, "It was the apotheosis of postmodern diplomacy," or maybe by ask­ing, "What evil churns within the belly of the body politic?" 
But I have a gut feeling I shouldn't. 
Instead, I will speak of a sickly feeling that I have deep in the pit of my stomach. 
You see, by some strange, un­canny, cosmic coincidence that has left me wondering about my own place in the grand scheme of things, fate would have it that I was throwing up in South Bend, Indiana at the exact moment that George Bush was losing his cookies in Tokyo, Japan. 
Unfortunately, no CNN ·crew was in hand to immortalize my gastronomic misadventure. Funny, I didn't even think of asking my wife to get out the camcorder. 
A few hours and three or four tablespoons of my favorite "protective coating action" later, I tried to get my wife to take seriously the idea that George Bush and I were linked in some weird way. 
"Just think how upsetting this is," I explained, trying to get my wife to put down her mystery. "I've always thought of Bush as the most cynical president of all time, and now it's as if I've found out he's my Doppelganger or something." 
"Yes, dear," my wife said by way of reassuring me, turning this page to find out if the gourmet cook was responsible for the unexpected appearance of a second corpse. 
"My God, I wonder what I was doing the moment that Bush decided to appoint Lynne Cheney chairman of NEH? Let alone when he made up his mind to 'kick some ass' in the Persian Gulf." 
Probably figuring I was suf­fering from some exotic type of intestinally-induced delirium, my wife put her book down and patted me on the shoulder. 
"Look at the bright side," she said. "Maybe you're on some sort of psychic hot line to George Bush that enables you to control what he does." 
"You think he threw up only because I was throwing up?" 
"Who knows?" My wife can be very patient with me at times. 
Letting her get back to 
Andrew Cutrofello 

Subterranean Homesick Politics 
"Murder by Sushi," I decided it was time to engage in some late-night poltergeistological research. I lit some candles, held my own hands, and tried to send a subliminal message to the President. For a long while, I kept getting a busy sig­nal. Then I may have started to dose off a little. But then ... 
"Well, Mr. Professor, how's your tummy doin'?" a preppy voice was saying. 
"Mr. President, is that you?" I felt the presence of a disembod­ied head of state hovering be­fore me. 
"You betcha. Listen, I know you're hurtin' out there. Still have a helluva tummy ache my­self. Been there, is what I'm sayin'. But don't cry for me, Arizona." The President's head was visible now, bobbing and weaving and grinning like the Cheshire cat. "Message: I care for your tummy." 
All that bobbing and weaving was making me feel queasy, so I tried to fix my gaze on the ce­ramic bust of JFK that stood on the mantle. "Sir, did you really want to vomit in Prime Minister Miyazawa's lap?" 
"Had to. Been doin' the trade warrior bit, here. Part of a whole strategy. Involves bein' domestic, eatin' chitlins, sayin' "bidness' 'stead of 'business,' standin' up to the Japanese, vomitin' on them-" 
"Vomiting?" 
"That's the word. Economic bulimia. A little vomiting fol­lowed by a binge of consumer spending." 
"Trickle-down with a vengeance, huh? Well, to be honest, Mr. President, you cal­lous indifference to the suffer­ing of others is beginning to turn a lot of stomachs." 
The bobbing and weaving had given way to a kind of jellyfish look. "It's those lib-er-als,'' the jellyfish intoned in a distorted, deep bass voice. 
Figuring this was my oppor­tunity to revolutionize the American political scene, I said, "Mr. President, now that we're psychically linked, you have to do what I tell you to do. Now, when you give your State of the Union speech, how about speaking the truth for once? I want you to explain to the American people that liberalism is not the source of their prob­lems. It's not liberalism, affrr­mative action, drugs, or Japan. Explain how those are all just a bunch of scapegoats." 
"Lib-er-als, lib-er-als ... " The jellyfish head started to do his broken record thing. Then it all started to melt away, so I began to speak more quickly. 
"You will explain that the real reason for their troubles is capitalism. Class struggle. Show them how liberal-bashing and race-baiting are just ways of making people oblivious to the existence of a class struggle. Then ask ·a few thought­provoking questions, like 'How come Wall Street's so high on the hog, while the average citi­zen goes hungry?"' 
"Lib-er-als, vom-it-ing, Per­sian Gulf, cap-it-al gains tax cut," the jellyfish face said as it faded away. 
"Tell the world to stop swal­lowing your usual kind of garbage," I called out. But the jellyfish head was gone. 
Then I woke up, sick to my stomach again. 
Andrew Cutrofello is a profes­sor of philosophy at Saint Mary's College. His columns appear every other Friday. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Anti-abortion legislation is needed to eliminate plague 
Dear Editor: 
In reading Mr. Josh Gaul's letter (The Observer Jan. 22), I feel it is necessary to make some points that will clear up some of the erroneous argu­ments of my fellow Cavanaugh resident. 
To begin with let me state that I am pleased that Mr. Gaul sees abortion as a "plague." Recognizing it for what it is, is something that many neglect to do. I also agree that more should be done to support pregnant women and their families. Much is being done now but there is much room for improvement. As a Roman Catholic, however, I must dis­agree with his arguments on how this evil should be eradi­cated. 
Mr. Gaul's statement that "the alarming rate of abortion in the United States is not due to its legality" is simply incorrect. A woman's motivations for having an abortion cannot be affected by the law, but one can at least say that the rate at which abortions are done is greatly influenced by the law. To say that acts bear no relationship to laws that pertain to them is to ignore what history has to tell us about other con­troversial issues. At one time, racism was widely accepted, encouraged, and vented. It was not seen as something that is wrong. 
Abortion too is not only seen as something that is not wrong but also as a fundamental right. Some people thought that racism was wrong and fought to have laws passed that would prohibit the venting of racism while knowing all along that the laws would not eliminate racism itself nor all racial acts of violence. 
Some people today think that abortion is wrong and are fighting to have laws passed to prohibit the act of abortion while knowing that the laws are not going to convince everyone that abortion is wrong nor end all acts of abortion. After the anti­discrimination laws began being enacted, the number of deaths due to racism has de­creased over time. 
If laws prohibiting abortions were passed, the number of abortions would decrease. Both racism and abortion are evils and just as acts of violence due to racism have decreased since laws have been passed, so too acts of abortion would decrease as a direct result of anti-abortion legislation. I am assuming that Mr. Gaul would agree with me in seeing this is a good thing considering his stand on abortion. I am also assuming that all Roman Catholics would share this view as well. 
Mr. Gaul realizes that his "suggestions fly in the face of Catholic doctrine concerning the issue of human sexuality" but I am very confused over Mr. Gaul's advice that we should dismiss our religious belief. It seems odd to me that within the same sentence he would first "set aside our religious belief" and then attempt to "work for what is best for the nation as a whole." 
It would appear as if the Faith is a hindrance to working for the common good. I tend to think, as I am sure most Catholics do, that Christ's law would not only help bring about what is best for our nation as a whole but that obedience to Christ's law is what is best for our nation as a whole. 
A Catholic cannot profess be­lief in Christ 's self-identifica­tion as "the way, and the truth, and the life" (Jn. 14:6) and then dismiss this profound declaration because someone disagrees with it. People disagreed with Christ when He said it yet He continued to preach it. People have died for this truth of the Faith! We call them Martyrs. 
If one truly believes in Christ and the Church of which He is Head, then one must believe that Christ through Holy Mother Church knows what is best for not only each individ­ual but for the nation as a whole, as well as the entire world. By being a Christian, we have the calling and the joy to be witnesses of the Truth of Christ in a world of doubt and error. We must be prophets and expect nothing less than the fulfillment of Christ's kingdom here on earth. Today! 
"Lack of education" and a "failure in American society to place the highest value in hu­man life" are both some of the causes of abortion. Why then eliminate our Faith when it teaches the only true form of protection from disease and unwanted pregnancies, namely abstinence? Why replace our Faith with something less when it is our Faith that proclaims the beauty of the human life? 
We all need to pray diligently for God's will to be done. That may mean a sacrifice of our will, but that is part of being a Christian. 
Christopher J. Beaudet Cavanaugh Hall Jan.29,1992 

Great Gourmet Burger Bungle is uncovered by Doctor Science 
Dear Editor: 
In last Friday's issue of The Observer, there appeared a let­ter addressing the number of ways to fix your gourmet ham­burger at the dining hall. With thirty-two toppings and four types of rolls, the authors were quick to point out that there were far more than thirty-six ways to fix your burger (as the dining hall claimed). Their computation led them to a number of combinations so ridiculously large that it stag­gers the mind: a fifteen fol­lowed by thirty-five zeroes! 
Needless to say, this calcula­tion is completely erroneous. The popular press is already 
using the juicy catch phrase "Great Gourmet Burger Bungle" to refer to these various mathematically illiterate statements. As Doctor Science, I relish the opportunity to pre­sent the real beef of the matter. To get the ridiculously large number (RLN), the mathemati­cian impersonators calculated 32! (thirty-two factorial) and multiplied that by the four types of bread. This meaty computation actually calculates the number of ways you could make your burger if you put all thirty-two toppings on it, in a different order each time. In other words, if you put the ketchup on before the onions, it 
is a different burger than putting the onions before the ketchup. Furthermore, they of­fered the diner no chance to choose the number of toppings. Seems a little saucy, doesn't it? You see, they calculated the number of permutations for thirty-two objects taken thirty­two at a time (P(n,r)=n!/(n-r)!: here n is the number of possible toppings (32) and r is how many of them you put on your burger. What they really wanted to compute was the number of combinations [C(n,r)=n!/(r!*(n­r)!)] for each possible number of toppings to be put on the burger (r), which ranges from zero to thirty-two. We need to 
sum all thirty-three of these combinations together. This result is multiplied by four, which allows for choosing any one type of roll. The final number: 3,811,876,320 differ­ent ways to decorate your burger. 
Sure, this still seems like a lot, but the RLN is wrong by a figure that is greater than the age of the universe in seconds. In the end, the dining hall's number was much more accurate, being off by only a few billion or so. See you later, I'm eating ... 

John F. Plumb 
Morrisey Hall 
Jan.27,1992 


JANUARY31~EBRUARY2 
weekend calendar 
friday 
MUSIC Kinetics, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m. Palace Laundry, Bridget's, 10 p.m. Rick James Band, Sneakers, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS Keenan Hall Revue, O'laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, ?p.m. Late Night Olympics, Joyce A.C.C., 8 p.m.-4 a.m. 
saturday 
MUSIC Kinetics, Club Shenanigans, 10:00 p.m. Rick James Band, Sneakers, 10:00 p.m. Methatones, Club 23, 10:00 p.m. 
EVENTS Keenan Hall Revue, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, ?p.m. 
films 
FRIDAY "Point Break," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. "Prospera's Books," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45p.m. 
SATURDAY "Point Break," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. "Prospera's Books," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 
"Prince of Tides," 7:10 & 9:50p.m. "Juice," 6:45 & 9 p.m. "Hook," 7 & 9:40p.m. "Fried Green Tomatoes," 6 & 9:30 p.m. 
is a good way to get to know people," Beatriz Castillo, a Saint Mary's student from Mexico said. 
Castillo chose to read and talk about Sor Juana Ines de Ia Cruz, a Mexican author, popular with Mexican people and scholars. "Her outstanding poetry makes her one of the most important women in Mexican literature," Castillo said. 
Cruz, a 17th century nun, "tried to encourage the right of women to education," according to Castillo. "She was very advanced for her time," she added. In the 17th century it was hard for people to speak up -especially 
By ELIZABETH COSTELLO Accent Writer 

F 
ive students and one faculty member will read poetry and fiction at the International Celebration at the Snite Museum this Saturday. 
"The whole idea is to present different aspects of women's lives," according to Diana Matthias, Assistant Professional Specialist, Snite Museum. 
Five of the six readers are natives of countries other than America. They chose to read works of women authors from their home countries and will talk about the author's background. The participants will read the poetry or fiction in their native language and in English. 
"The readings and the day are a celebration of the lives and concerns of the international women who have come to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," Matthias said. 
Roxana Barrantes Glave, a 
'The readings and the day are a celebration of the lives and the concerns of the international women who have come to Notre Dame and St. Mary's.' 
Peruvian graduate student at Notre Dame, is reading fiction from Clorinde Matto de Turner. Matto de Turner, a daughter of a land owner family, lived in the highland city of Cusco, Peru, Glave said. 
"Matto de Turner tried to present the Indian with respect and tried to bring to attention the value of human beings to the upper classes," Glave explained. 
Matto de Turner's concern was 
Women worldwide discuss t 
By TRAVIS SMITH Accent Writer 

D 
ue to the success of the first Day of Women at the Snite Museum, a Second Day of Women at the Snite Museum will take place on Saturday. This event will be a celebration of international women at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and in the South Bend community. Panel discussions are among the events scheduled for this special day. 
One conference entitled "An International Celebration" will be moderated by Notre Dame senior Sharon Williams. "Notre Dame contains a richness of culture within its student body and this Saturday offers a really good opportunity for students to take advantage of it," commented Williams. 
The first conference will begin at 9 a.m. and will consist of three Notre Dame women: Sigrid Artz of Mexico, Uma Balakrishnan of Bombay, India, and Jasmin Nario of the Philippines. "The the exploitation of Indians. She was one of the first to bring attention to the problem of the Indian, Glave said. Additionally, women are main characters in two of her novels. 
For Glave, it is interesting to have the opportunity to know more about Matto de Turner, and the Day of Women is a very important event. "I think it is important because of the national nature of the celebration. It is important for women to know and think about other cultures -not only women but men too," she added. 
This feeling is common among the participants in the day of Women. "I think it is important that we get to know cultures from other countries. I think literature 

discussion will focus on the percentage is much higher in men education each received from than women. "If you educate a their own countries from the man, you educate just him. But if stand point of women," Williams you educate a woman, you edu­said. cate the entire family," added 
Balakrishnan. 

According to panelist All three panelists have their Balakrishnan, "I am an exception. masters degrees, and according to It's not an easy thing to do for an panelist Sigrid Artz, "We will be Indian woman to come here and discussing the impact of a woman 
"... the literacy rate in India is 30°/o and ... the literacy percentage is much higher in men than women. 'If you educate a man, you educate just him. But if you educate a woman, you educate the entire family."' 
study." Balakrishnan received 12 years of schooling in India, but says that for a woman education is limited. 
India's government has recently begun changes for the increased education of woman, providing free education for all women up to the age of 15. Balakrishnan said that the literacy rate in India is 30% and that the literacy having a masters degree in each of our own countries." 
"In my case, it will definitely help. It opens many doors to teach," Artz said. Artz has her masters in International Peace Studies which will help her to obtain a teaching job at one of the universities in Mexico. She is planning on going back to Mexico in one month. 


0 Dame 

Photos courtesy of Notre Dame Archives. Top: The University, circa 1912-1916. Several buildings pictured were never actually built. Below: Fr. Julius Nieuwland, who made synthetic rubber in 1928. 

Formative Years 

By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Editor 
The opening decades of the twentieth century saw great changes sweep the United States and the world. 
The world found itself involved in the bloodiest combat to date, as Europe was carved up with muddy, death-laden trenches. 
Flappers and the "Roaring Twenties" came and went, giving way to Black Monday, 1929, which sparked the Great Depression. 
Just 10 years later, an unknowing and starving world stood on the brink of its second world war since the turn of the century. 
"Brother, Can You Spare a Dime?" lamented the blight of the poor, as veterans and im­poverished families waited in line for handouts and aid. 
Fascism came into vogue in the wake of the Great War and the dismal economic conditions in Europe. 
In Germany, a disgruntled Austrian named Adolf Hitler was coming into power. Benito Mussolini and his Brown Shirts swept through Italy. Communism, Lenin, and Stalin filled the news pages. 
In the midst of these world-wide growing pains, which at times seemed as if they would tear Western civilization asunder, Notre Dame grew, prospered, and changed. 
At the close of the 1800s, L'Universite de Notre Dame du Lac possessed slightly over 1,000 acres of land and 24 buildings, employed 52 faculty and served nearly 550 students. Tuition, room and board amounted to $400. 
Barely twenty years later, the school's land holdings had increased by 30 percent, as had the number of faculty and students. 
Fr. Thomas Walsh, the president of the University in 1893, died that year, as did Father Alexis Granger and Notre Dame's founder, Fr. Edward Sorin, leaving the university listing with a vacuum in its halls of power. 
Only 50 years after Sorin had claimed the land in the Indiana wilderness for the Blessed Mother, the future of his school appeared uncertain. 
Yet as the twentieth century dawned, a series of charismatic leaders propelled Sorin's college into the national limelight. 
Fr. James Burns, ninth president of the university, was inaugurated in 1920 and promptly established a Board of Associate Lay Trustees to muster a million-dollar endowment for the school. 
A Scandinavian chemistry student from Chicago, Knute Kenneth Rockne, took an al­ready mighty Notre Dame football program from midwestern to national and world-wide fame. 
With the aide of stars such as George Gipp and the Four Horsemen, Notre Dame football not only altered Saturday routines on campus and in South Bend, but helped to shape the nation's desire and respect for collegiate athletics. Rockne was also an assistant to Fr. 
see ROCKNE! page 2 

page 2 150 YEARS of Notre Dame 
Friday, January 31, 1992 
Sesquicentennial Vignettes By Phil Loranger 
Signs of the times 
The flu, the Klan, and nine new dorms 
It would have pleased Ring Lardner to know that fully more 
than 58 years since his death, _he re~ains one o~ the most 
widely read and imitated Amencan .wnters of fictwn. In. the 
years between 1914 and his death m 1933, Lardner gamed 
international fame as a colorful humorist, biting satirist and 
beloved newspaper columnist. His writings in the Chicago 
Tribune's In The Wake Of The News column became 
immediate collector's items. 
A native of Niles, Mich., the always impeccably dressed 
Lardner literally exploded onto the American literary scene 
with the first of his famed ."You Know Me, AI" series, published 
in March of 1914, in the Saturday Evening Post. In the most 
successful dialect narrative ever achieved outside of Mark 
'!\vain's Huckleberry Finn, Lardner adopted an idiomatic style 
to describe the exploits of his comic fictional hero, Jack Keefe, 
a braggadocio rookie pitcher for the Chicago White Sox. 
Ironically, Lardner himself never played baseball, ~ut 
through a quirk in fate, a twist of the truth and reportmg 
many of Notre Dame's early baseball games, the unusually 
reserved Lardner not only became a premier baseball writer, 
but also opicked up the slang terminology used b1 the players 
to craft his hard-tyhrowing, hard-headed rookte character. 
This takes some explaining. 
After graduating from high school and making a desultory 
attempt at higher education at Chicago's Armour Tech, where 
he promptly flunked out, Lardner returned to Niles and ~u~g 
around the offices of the Daily Star, the commumty s 
newspaper on which his brother, Rex, had made a good name 
for himself as a writer. 
In 1905, Edgar A. Stoll, editor of the South. Bend .Ti~es, 
ventured to Niles with hopes of hiring Rex for hts pubhcatwn. 
As fate would have it, Ring's brother was on vacation and Rex 
was sitting in his chair just whiling away the day. He really 
had nothing better to do. 
"Well, it so happens that my brother is tied to this 
newspaper on a long contract," claimed Lardner. "But it .so 
happens that I'm available, and as you. probabl1 know, I.ve 
been his chief editorial assistant for qmte a whlie. If you re 
having some problems down there in South Bend, I guess I 
could help you out." . 
Stoll took him at his word. After all, he was an asststant to 
Rex so he must know his way around a typewriter. And just 
like' that, Ring Lardner became the South Bend Tiines' 
courthouse reporter. drama critic and sports editor. 
"I had a lovely job on the newspaper," Lardner once recalled. "In the morning I covered the police station and the courts. In the afternoons, I went to the ball park to cover the town's Central League team, but I spent most of my time dating a girl from Goshen who I later married and watching Notre Dame play baseball over at C~rtier Field." . " 
Making good use of his famous dtalect that mark~d hts You Know Me, AI" series, Lardner fulfilled a request m 1917. to write an article for Matt Trudelle, editor of the annual yearbook, the Dome: 
Notre Dame: 
Gents -It's true Del what you say about me having promised to write you something for th~ ivory dome when I seen you in Souse Bend last Xm~s hohdays but yo.u got to admit that you did not give me no tdear of w~at to. wrtt~ ab?~t and its been so long since I honored your umverstty wtth VlSlt and search that I am out of touch with it, as the panhandlers say. They's nothing I could tell you about your school that you don't already know before I told it to you. As a manner of fact, they's only 1 subject I know about that ain't public knowledge and that's myself, so I better say a few modest words in that direction. 
I was 32 yrs. old the 6 of this inst. and up to 10 Y:s. a.go I was considered 1 of the handsomest young men m Ntles, Mich., which is going along some. Then I begin to loose my hair and I been loosing it ever since and judgeing from the amt. of hair I lost, I must of had as much to start as Fanny. X. Bushman. I am a married man and if girls insist on writemg me mash notes I would prefer them to address me at the office. 1 got 2 suits of clothes exclusive of my evening clothes and the 1 I am not wearing is always sent down to Hansen the tailor to be pressed up because I am always careful! about my personal appearance and try to keep my hat on as much as possible. 
My college education is composed of 1 semester at Armo~r inst. Chicago where I took engineering and passed m rhetorick. Now l am a writer and everybody talks about my stuff behind my back. I write for the Chicago ~ribune and t~e dome and 1 or 2 other magazines of less notice. My stuff ts good when I try hard. I wrote something good the 24th of last Oct. Maybe you was the 1 that read it. 
I remember once when I was going to Niles High School rah rah rah that our football team come over to your school in a livery rig to cross bats with Carroll Hall and the grounds was covered with damp snow and they was eleven men on our team and 827 on the Carroll hall team and I was trying to play end and we win the toss and you guys kicked off to us and on the 2nd. play we punted and I was dashing down the field like a load of lumber lath and shingles when my flight was arrested by the receipt of 2 snow balls, 1 under the eye and the other 1 knocked all the seeds out of my Adam's apple. So after that the home boys run back punts without encountering no foreign obstacles. 
That's about all I can think of to write about accept that I wear Hamerton collars size 16 and got 3 children all boys. With my most lukewarm wishs for the success of your issue I insist on remaining, Ring W. Lardner And that's the way it was during Notre Dame's first 150 years. 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame students reacted violently to the beating of two fellow students by two alleged employees of a South Bend company. 
On campus, movies were shown in Washington Hall, summer school courses were offered, the dome was regilded, the Irish brought home a bowl game victory and lay faculty members outnumbered their religious counterparts three to one. 
These events, although they have their contemporary parallels, all occurred at L'Universite de Notre Dame du Lac in the first half of the twentieth century. 
In 1916, an angry hoard of Notre Dame students torched a South Bend street car in protest of the beating of two students by men reportedly hired by the company for that express purpose. 
That same year, free movies 

were  first  shown  in  
Washington Hall.  
Two  years  later,  the  

flu-specifically a strain of Spanish influenza-tore through campus. In those days before infirmary-sponsored flu shots, 10 people died and 200 were hospitalized. 
Also in 1918, the university offered summer school courses for the first time (female reli­gious were allowed to attend these summer sessions). 
Before the end of the year, the Notre Dame dismantled its branch of the Students' Army Training Corps (SATC), which, since 1917, had allowed the university to buoy its otherwise sagging enrollment by admit­ting students into SATC (much like today's ROTC) who would have instead found themselves in the muddy trenches of France. 
In the fall of 1918, 700 SATC students came to Notre Dame. During the war, eight Holy Cross priests, including Fr. Charles O'Donnell, who, in 1928 was elected the 11th president of the university, became chaplains in the armed services. 
Nearly one in every three 

Rockne 
continued from page 1 
Julius Nieuwland, who discovered synthetic rubber at Notre Dame in 1928. 
Notre Dame athletes excelled on the baseball diamond as well as the gridiron. The game of baseball, invented by Alexander Cartwright in the 1860s, was fast becoming known as the American pastime. 
Frank O'Malley began teach­ing literature classes in 1909 and did not stop until 197 4. The campus underwent an expansion program of fantastic proportions, with 29 buildings constructed or renovated be­tween 1910 and 1939. Among the structures sent skyward were nine residence halls (Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Lyons, Holy Cross, Howard, Morrissey and Zahm). the South Dining Hall and Notre Dame Stadium. 
At the close of the 1930s, the world stood on the brink of war. 
Somehow Notre Dame grew and prospered through it alL 

Notre Dame students lived off campus because of the enrollment surge which occurred after the Treaty of Versailles had been signed. Nonetheless, the administration enforced its code of rules with the lenience of Draco. 
It was forbidden for students to even drive automobiles (let alone hike for days to obscurely named lots to find their vandalized cars). Notre Dame disciplinarians patrolled the streets of South Bend's forbidden zones in search of wayward students. 
Hullie and Mike's, a popular student hub, catered the first football banquet and numerous gatherings during Irish road games. Hullie and Mike occa­sionally traveled with the team, and their establishment was a popular place to catch score updates. 
The 1916 streetcar incident was by no means the only vio­lent clash in which students participated. Although the snowball fights of the day were reasonably peaceful, South Bend was caught in the grips of hatred when 35,000 members of the Ku Klux Klan arrived in 1924. 
Yet when all had been said and done, the Klansmen were driven from town with relatively light damage sustained by both sides. 
The Golden Dome was regilded for the first time in 1920, just a year after Eamon De Valera, first president of the Irish Free State, had visited Notre Dame and Fr. James Burns had been elected the ninth president of the univer­sity. 
By the time the calendars read 1939, Freshman Hall had been built (1922) and demol­ished (1932), as had Sophomore Hall (1923-1936). Fr. Bernard Lange was for­mally proclaimed as the world's fourth strongest man. In 1937, he turned the old natatorium into a gymnasium, as a brand new pool had been installed in the newly dedicated Rockne Memorial building. 
In 1925, Fr. Walsh, 10th president of the university, banned all fraternities from campus, including Phi Beta Kappa. Just a year later, the Burke Memorial golf course opened-to men only-providing students with a better course than the scraggly grass behind Badin HalL 
Student life underwent yet further changes, however. The grade school was closed in 1929, as was the School of Agriculture, yet in the same year the graduate school was officially founded. 


Friday, January 31, 1992 150 YEARS of Notre Dame page 3 


Rockne 
continued from page 4 
Led by future All-American quarterback Gus Dorais, Notre Dame lobbed pass after pass over the Army defenders to receivers who caught the ball in stride -very rare at the time. Halfback Ray "Ike" Eichenlaub utilized his punishing running skills to blast through the Army defense when the Notre Dame pass attack faltered. 
Rockne and the Domers had piled up 21 fourth-quarter points, while shutting out Army for the duration of the second half. As a further testament to their toughness, Notre Dame made only one substitution in the game, and that because of a broken shoelace. 
During the 1920s, Rockne and his teams made a series of indelible marks upon the national psyche. Stan Cofall, team captain in 1916, went on to coach the South Bend Muessels (a professional team) as well as the Massillon (Ohio) Tigers, a founding franchise of what would later become the Natiollill Football League. 
In 1920, while Rockne's team stormed its way to a 9-0-0 record and the VVestern Championship (another unofficial national championship), professional football players organized the American Professional Football Association, with Jim Thorpe of the Canton (Ohio) Bulldogs as its president. Cofall was the league's first vice-president. 
On November 20 of that same year, Rockne's star player, George Gipp, played in his last game, a 33-7 rout of Northwestern. Gipp contracted strep throat and died December 14 at the age of 25. 
Just 11 years after the great victory over Army, New York sports writer Grantland Rice of the New York Herald-Tribune penned the Horsemen into legend. 
"Outlined against a blue-gray October sky, the Four Horsemen rode again. In dramatic lore, they are known as Famine, Pestilence, Destruction and Death. These are only aliases. Their real names are Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden." 
The Horsemen-Elmer Layden, Harry Stuhldreher, James Crowley and Don Miller-plowed over opponents on their way to the unofficial 1924 national championship. Rice's words were written after he had witnessed a spectacular Notre Dame victory at New York's Polo Grounds. 
The Horsemen, however, by no means bowled the world over on their own. In fact, they relied for their heroics upon the less-known Seven Mules-Ed Hunsinger, Edgar Miller, Noble Fizer, Adam VValsh, Johnny VVeibel, Joe Bach, and 
EXTRA 'EO . . ······E
.··... ·.:··..· . . >·.·:···:._·,_·. _·,·,;,··..··:,_..:·,·' :·. 
·.. ·. '· .· ····:·:·.· ........ ·... . 
·.. ·.··. ·•· ·.··u·•·.··. ... .. • .·..•
·.N.... 
..
.•.• > '• ·!····_··.·.·.·.·.··.··.'.··•.......•..•.:.·..·.·.···.·.·.•····.. ......i··· 
. ·.· ·. . ·.. ·..·..·.>"···........... ,· .·.·.·.
K
. . 
. · . ·_..·: .·· ..,·: :·.· ·'
···.··s····. ... ·: ; ..·· ···a··_-·.·. ...'. .... ··-...
.. .._··a·· 
: . . . .· ·. . 
:_.:;.: ... '.·. ·: "> .:~··.. ·''> ·:. . .. ·.',.
~ ~
. . . .. .
,:l ~ ,· ... .._} 
Chuck Collins. Behind the Mules and the Horsemen, Notre Dame set itself on the road to being proclaimed one of the greatest football dynasties of all time. 
Yet as quickly as Rockne ascended to the throne of national icon, he died. In 1931, Rockne's flight from Chicago to Los Angeles crashed in a remote field in Kansas. Headlines across the nation cried out at the death of a legend, and the Irish mourned. Ironically, Rockne had opted to fly because he disliked the long train ride to the coast. 
Between 1910 and 1939, Notre Dame saw 53 of its players attain All-American status, although not all were recognized by the nascent NCAA. In 1947, Frank Leahy's Fighting Irish played the last game against Army. It was a 27­7 victory in the house that Rockne built, Notre Dame Stadium. The series ended (it is to be renewed in 1994) with the Cadets on the bad end of a 34-8-4 record. 
In his 13-year tenure, Rockne had succeeded in putting Notre Dame football-and L'Universite de Notre Dame du Lac-very much on the map. 
Seven years after his death, the Rockne Memorial was dedicated. Twenty years after his death, he was elected into the NFL Hall of Fame. 
Rockne's successes enabled poor Catholic boys of all descents to have a shot at an education and a career. The team which had adopted a slur as its nickname proved time and again on the gridiron that excellence was the only standard by which the Irish juuJ"t::uL·~" themselves. 
The world-especially Saturday afternoons, served at Notre Dame classwork, disorganized game the "Badin Bog" and around Bend-would never be the sam again. 
Editor's Note: 
This special section is the third in a series examining student life at Notre Dame throughout its 150-year history. Special thanks are given to Charles Lamb and the staff at University Archives. VVithout assistance, this project would not been possible. The research done by Tomas J. Schlereth, professor of American Studies, was also beneficial. 
All  photos  courtesy  
University  of  Notre  
Archives.  


Photos courtesy of Notre Dame Archives. ... 
Clockwise from top: 1. Knute Rockne. 2. Notre Dame in action against Marquette at Chicago's Comiskey Park in 1912. 3. Headline from the Toledo Blade which trumpeted the news of Rockne's death. 4. Investigators pore over the wreckage of Rockne's flight in Kansas. 5. Rockne's funeral in Sacred Heart church. 
-.a 
L..._.r~--D·.··· E··. E·XTRA 
······~-· .. ··.······ ·······..
.. 
' 

. ......,,...-.. .·. _·.... .• . .• ··· .··•··. ....t_ •••••·.••.• . ,.. .•·.·.. •.· _.• 
.-..._., ::·. . . ......: ..... .·.. .
)I'~-.····KIL··L··E·D
.... . . . --· .. ·.··... 
. . 
~-:.· -,·:,_·,:, ::,__ ·.. .. : . < :='\::;.:. ': . 
·. .:· . . . ... ·:-:_<_':... ·.....: ... . _.: -·. ..... : . . ,..: 
· ··s·a·Es
. . . . .
~tRl ,..: , ~ ~'~;? ....~ 
.;J;:,=: ····'·· ···-·.··· . . . . ·... ·.. .............·...·... . . 

150 YEARS of Notre Dame 
Friday, January 31, 1992
page 4 
Photos courtesy of Notre Dame Archives. Central photo: Construction begins on Notre Dame Stadium, April 11, 1930. Engineered by Osborn Engineering Co. of Cleveland, Ohio, and constructed by Ralph Soli itt &Sons of South Bend, Rockne modeled it on the massive Michigan Stadium. Left: August 1, 1930 finds the house that Knute built receiving its finishing touches. Lower right: The stadium is shown mid-way through construction, June 25, 1930. 
Knute Rockne 
and the birth of a dynasty 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Rockne had developed and founder as a finder. During those 13 years, Notre half of play, however, which Sports Editor honed to a razor edge his foot­"His forte had been the ge­Dame teams, whose nicknames forever changed the face of ball skills and instincts for nius to make the most of what alternated between the college and professional 
In 1910, a young Knute coaching. "Rokne [sic], a he had found-an already en­Catholics and the Ramblers, football. 
Kenneth Rockne arrived at freshman, made a good show­trenched athletic tradition in recorded five unbeaten and un­Although the forward pass·• Notre Dame. ing at fullback but showed a which football had attained tied seasons, as well as six sea­had been legalized in 1906, The world would never be tendency to fumble," wrote a championship recognition the sons with one loss each. many coaches nonetheless con­the same. newspaper of the day. year before his advent," noted Rockne's teams won consensus tinued to regard it as an abso­Chet Grant, born in Defiance, Grant in Before Rockne at national championships in lute last-ditch effort when the
Rockne, an excellent student 
as well as an actor, yearbook Ohio, in 1892 (the university's Notre Dame. 1924 (10-0-0), 1929 (9-0-0), ground game had sputtered. reporter and athlete (football, 50th anniversary), played three Indeed, Notre Dame teams and 1930 (10-0-0), but are On the first drive of the half, track and amateur boxing), seasons of football (1916, had compiled a record of 14 7-commonly credited with as Notre Dame-who Fr. Matthew graduated with highest honors, 1920-21) in a Notre Dame uni­36-14-for a winning percent­many as six championships or Walsh, lOth president of the 
in chemistry, of all subjects. form before serving as an as­age of . 7 46-before Rockne ar­as few as two. university officially christened At the bequest of a faculty sistant coach under Elmer rived. Rockne, however, im­In 1913, Notre Dame won as the Fighting Irish in member, Rockne was offered a Layden from 1934-40. proved upon that mark, as his perhaps its most significant 1927-stopped Army at their position as a chemistry teacher, Although Rockne's legend teams went a combined 105-victory, trouncing national goal line. With copious use of with the condition that he would portray the gritty 12-5 during his 13 year reign. powerhouse Army 35-13 at the forward pass, Rockne and would also serve as an assis­Scandinavian as the founding Rockne's .881 winning percent­West Point's Collum Hall Field. the midwesterners executed tant to head football coach father of Notre Dame football, age still stands as the highest Coach Jesse Harper's team, the first recorded run and Jesse Harper. Grant has aptly pointed out ever in college and captained by Rockne, led 14-13 shoot offense, in the process 
As a player under Harper. that Rockne was not so much a professional football. at halftime. It was the second decimating the Army defense. 
One of many freshman dormitories designed by Kevrick and Fagan, architects, Lyons Hall is shown here in the blueprint stage. Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Archives. 
-

page 11 


ultures 
concerning women, Castillo explained. 
Notre Dame faculty member Maria Luiza Carrano, a native of Brazil, decided to read the works of 20th century poet Cecilia Meireles. "She has beautiful poems. Her poems sing," Carrano said. 
The Brazilian poet worked in the modernist period but is not an example of a modernist poet, according to Carrano. "She was pretty much herself, which makes her great," she added. 
Days like the International Celebration are important to Carrano who explains, "I believe in integration. Without integration, we cannot survive as a community and country." 
Chinese poetry is being read by Hong Lui, a Notre Dame student from China. The 11th century poet she chose, Li Qingzhao, is interesting to her because "she presents a kind of truism in her >ociety." The type of poetry written by U Qingzhao is unique, :tccording to Lui. Qingzhao ;howed the kind of life that many <\sian women lived. 
"Li Qingzhao talked about her personal life in society which is kind of a mirror of the women who suffered in the situation of the 11th century," Lui added. 
Lui is excited to introduce Li Qingzhao to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's corr nity because the Asian poet is one of China's most popular. 
eir lives 
Artz said that there are more females working for the gov­ernment now and she would like to become a human rights consultant for the government. "Hiring women brings more points of view than just males," Artz said. 
The second panel will be on 
'Women and Social Change" and 
ill take place from 1:15 until 

:30 p.m. Saint Mary's senior, 
ngelique Dioguardi, will be the 
oderator of this panel which 
includes MBA student Frances 
Pires of Kenya, Aixa Quiros of 
Panama, and Zhuoyun Yan of 
China. 
According to Diana Matthias, the Coordinator of Curriculum Structured Tours and Coordinator of this program, these three women will be addressing such questions as "What's the employment situation for women?". "Is a Notre Dame diploma useful for women in other countries?", and "How does life for these three women compare to the lives their mothers lived?" 
All events will be held in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. 

-
.... 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 
Hear the sounds of Japan played by the koto 
By JENNIFER CLEARY 
Accent Writer 
K 
oto is a traditional Japanese stringed instrument. Its harsh, percussive, or gentle, harp-like sounds have been enjoyed for centuries throughout Japan. Now Notre Dame students have the unique opportunity to attend a concert of koto music. 
The concert is part of the second Day of Women, an event scheduled Febuary 1, 11:30 a.m.-12:15 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. The day has been set aside as an "international celebration" of poetic, literary, social, and mu­sical aspects of the lives of women at Notre Dame, St. 
Mary's College, and in the South Bend community. According to Diana Matthias, Coordinator of Curriculum-Structured Tours at the Snite Museum, the second Day of Women has been scheduled due to the success of the first Day of Women held on January 26, 1991. 
In addition to the Japanese koto music concert, panel dis­cussions, a slide lecture, poetry and fiction readings, and story telling are scheduled in Annenberg Auditorium from 
9:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Matthias said, "I aimed to put together a series of events that express various sides of the lives of women." Matthias feels one of the most interesting aspects of the celebration is that "it in­cludes women participating from all over the world." 
The Day of Women at the Snite Museum: An International Celebration is jointly sponsored by the Snite Museum of Art, the Kellogg Institute for International Peace Studies, the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, the Gender Studies Program and the Office of International Student Affairs. 
The koto music concert will be performed by a professional ensemble made up of four na­tive Japanese women in the South Bend area: Reiko Ono, Yumiko Maekawa, Akie Maekawa, and Miyuki Hughes. Ever since the group combined their unique musical talents to­gether eight months ago, they have been faithfully practicing two to three times a week. Yumiko, a junior at Clay High School, is the ensemble's youngest member. 
The group is preparing four ­traditional Japanese pieces and one surprise Western piece for the concert. According to Hughes, the women plan to ap­pear in komonos, the traditional Japanese female dress. Hughes feels that the taste of Japanese culture and koto music will be a new experience for Notre Dame students and hopes "they come just to enjoy the music." 
The concert is free of charge and a reception following the day's events is scheduled 5:30-6:30 p.m. at Greenfields Cafe in Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
, • • ' 4 ' I ' 
·~~~;,!;:~,;.=~ 
---·­

I 
I 
page 12 The Observer Friday, January 31, 1992 
-
The learned art of compassion 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
"It occurred to us lately that it 
has been a long time since we 
passed a week without thinking 
of AIDS," begins a "Talk of the 
Town" piece appearing in "The 
New Yorker." 
"By now, the disease has 
become part of everyday life: a 
dull hammering, there in our 
waking hours and in our 
dreams. It's that way, we 
suspect, for many of our 
friends.... The word is getting 
empty of everyone I know, one 
by one in every direction they 
are leaving this world," said a 
handsome brochure we recently 
received from AIDS Treatment 
Project, a foundation that gives 
cash grants to the ill. 
The words were printed in 
large, angry black letters, "For 
some people, everyone they 
know has died. " 
Last October, an ND grad who works in Manhattan, told me: "New Yorkers are tired of hearing about AIDS. They're tired of hearing activists de­manding money for AIDS-assis­tance. New Yorkers have de­cided that people suffering from cancer or Alzheimer's have needs too; so why should the lion's share of money budgeted for disease control be spent on looking for a cure to AIDS?" 
I had not expected to hear news like this from the Big Apple. Perhaps New Yorkers are suffering from battle-fa­tigue. Esther, a young activist, told "The New Yorker," "There are people who have been through this three or four times," meaning the experience of tending the dying. "How do they do it?" she asked. "How do they keep from feeling hope­less?" 
This week, a ND alumnus on campus to speak about AIDS, mentioned in the conversation we had, Rick Acker's column in 

Then let them suffer from the 
consequences of their own folly. 
Nothing sets the Elder Brother's 
teeth on edge as much as the 
idea of a free lunch. 

I once asked an Irish mother 
which of her ten children was 
the favorite. She answered: 
"The one who needs me most at 
the moment." I'm tempted to 
say that public funds should be 
made available to the group 
that needs it most when the 
funds are on hand, but that 
could be a mistake. 

The horror stories from the AIDs-clinics could persuade you that AIDS-activists overseer is the most tragic game in town. Lisa, visits her brother, who has had full-blown AIDS for three years, reports "The New Yorker," every morning in the hospital, where she reads to him. 
On her last visit, she handed the book to her brother after finishing a chapter, saying, "Your turn." "By the way her brother held the book, and the way his eyes moved, she could tell that he was registering the text. But he didn't utter a sound. After a while, she asked, 'Don't you want to read aloud?' He gave her a bruised look and said, 'I thought I was."' 
Every terminal illness gener­ates its own horror stories, so I don't suppose that in appropri­ating money for disease control, comparative horror is the name of the game. It should not be the horror of the disease that gets the gravy, it's the threat that the disease offers. 
The Mayor of New York could 
easily get the impression that 
his city is dying. A vocal critic of 
the Koch administration has 
accused city officials of ignoring 
the AIDS crisis. The critic says: 
"Sometimes I run into Koch 
when I'm walking my dog, 
Molly, and then I address all my 
comments to her." The 
comments, spoken loud enough 
for Koch to hear, are along 
these lines: "There's the man 
who murdered all of Daddy's 
friends." 

Mayor Dinkins in New York could shoot the city in the foot if he were to start acting like a judge deciding who deserves what in the battle against AIDS. Should Dinkins refuse funding to set up AIDS-hospices in Greenwich Village, because a number of gays in the Village engage in unprotected sex? Should he refuse to allow the Red Cross to screen the blood supply coming into St. Vincent's Hospital on 7th avenue because the junkies on MacDougal Street are careless in their use of dirty needles? 
I think Dinkins could learn a lesson from the Church. The in­solence of clerics has never made the way of the transgres­sor easy, you may have noticed, remembering how the Puritans treated their Hester Prynnes. Today's prelates don't have the luxury of treating young women, pregnant out of wed­lock, as though they should be penitents who have brought ruin on themselves. 
Even Catholics who believe abortion is a great sin regard the freedom of choice allowed by Wade versus Roe as the lesser of two evils. Many of the mainline churches shot them­selves in the foot years ago, be­fore abortions were legalized. The old priests and nuns may have thought that "tough love" 
would be the salvation of way­
ward girls, but wayward girls 
grow into matriarchs remem­
bering a time in their lives 

when they needed hugs, and 
were offered sorrow. 

When a 42-year old man, 
whom you remember as an un­
dergraduate, tells you that he is 
dying of AIDS, you're not apt to 
be tempted to judge him. When 
he reminds you that he is 
gay-as though he were telling 
you for the first time-the 
question becomes: "How can I 
help him? 

When he speaks of the gay world, you start imagining the underground as though it were a ghetto where a lad goes to be free of pretense, though nowa­days, it cannot be free of fear. Then you ask him: "Are you afraid?" and he answers, "Only of becoming physically helpless and totally dependent on nurses," his honesty is so great, it seems to you like the inno­cence acquired by burn-agains. 
Being gay in America can't be any bed of roses, and you feel like asking him if he has ever felt more sinned against than sinning? And the answer comes back from your conscience: "Have I, by my words and ac­tions, ever left him feeling more sinned against than sinning?" 
Adrian is an artist who made a woodcut carved with weeping eyes, entitled "The Learned Art of Compassion," which is about the experience of having AIDS. 
Adrian says: "I used to get wild about how unfair things are, how cruel and bigoted people can be. I wanted to say, 'Know this! We're just people!' But now I have a different kind of feeling. It's a dying people cliche, but I want to say, 'Capture the moment, whoever you are. None of us is here for­ever.'" 
last Friday's Observer, "AIDS is 
not worthy of disproportionate 
funding." 
Acker, a law student, let us 
know that the money spent on 
AIDS would be better used in 
the fight against cancer and 
Alzheimer's. "To contract AIDS, 
unlike cancer and Alzheimer's, 
one generally has to be doing 
something immoral and/or 
illegal" that is, be involved in 
"illegal drug use, promiscuous 
sex, or prostitution." 
The ND alumnus, who is gravely ill with AIDS, said: "The young man is overlooking the thousands of children suffering from AIDS in Africa." The young man also overlooked the hemophiliacs and other inno­cents accidentally exposed to the AIDS-virus. 
The parable of the Prodigal Son comes to mind, probably because I'm a preacher. The Elder Brother comes up from the fields where he has been working, and finds that the ne'er-do-well of the family is home from the fleshpots, and there is a party in progress to celebrate the prodigal's return . 
The Elder Brother says to the father who is footing the cater­ing bill, "Why are you doing this?" The father says simply, ''I'm doing this because he's my dear boy, and I love him. Don't be mean-spirited He's your bother, and you should love him too." 
There can be a mind set against AIDS patients that is equally simplistic: How did they get sick? By doing things that are illegal and/or immoral. 


-----~------~----------------------------------­
----------------------------------------------~-------­
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's offiCe, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classijieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
LOST: Lavender glasses case 1/24 HOMES FOR RENT SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS SPRINGBREAK SAILING ...Notre Dame Video ...NOTICES in or around LaF/O'Shag WALK TO CAMPUS London (5/20-6/19) and Rome BAHAMAS 48ft Luxury Yachts/ New Movies Call #3729. 232-3616 (6/14-7/13). Travel in Ireland, Groups of 6. Seven Days Barefoot BACKDRAFT Scottland, England, France, Sailing The Bahamas. All Inclusive POINT BREAK 
CUSTOMIZED WORD Germany, Switzerland, and With Cabin & Meals $488 Each. THELMA & LOUISE PROCESSING 
Found: A set of keys on a Notre ROOM TO RENT. USE OF ALL Northern Italy. Courses in bio, CALL ANYTIME. 1-800-999-7245. TERMINATOR II
Reports/resumes/letters. 
Dame key chain outside the JACC UTILITIES. $225/MO. 232-2794 business, education, history, JUNGLE FEVER 
271-1618. 
last Friday night. To claim call x2963 PAUL. photography, poly sci, Italian, soc. Organizational meeting FEB. 17, WHO IS THE REAL LIZARD KING? ..NEW HRS. 5 TO 11 PM.. 
6:30 pm, Carroll hall (SMC). For OF COURSE .... IT'S BOSKI! Seven Days a WeekUSED TEXTBOOKS! 
Lost: Gold Claddagh Ring near B.P. "CLOSE TO CAMPUS 5 info call Prof. Black 284-4460 Buy & Sell Books Saturday night. Reward. Call Sean BEDROOM FUNISHED HOUSE. 5 (office) or 272-3726 (home). 
Pandora's Books 
at x1004. OR 6 STARTING AUGUST '92 don't look From A Distance! 
3 blks. from NO 
AND/OR THIS SUMMER. DRIVE ATIENTION: SPRING BREAKERS Come A Little Closer, take a233-2342/10-5:30 M-Sun 
BY 605 N. ST PETER. FOR ADOPT -Devoted father, full-time INTERESTED IN Leap Of Faith, and let's FOUND: ring near Farley & BP. DETAILS AND TO SEE CALL 289-mother seek newborn to join family. Meet In The Middle Call x4092 to identify. 6146. We promise your baby love and CANCUN $460VALENTINE GLAMOUR. Give the understanding, a good education & BAHAMAS $279 best valentine of all YOURSELF! 
fun. Supportive grandparents. SO PADRE $t99. God Must Be A Cowboy GLAMOUR portraits by nationally 
Lost: Eye glasses and/in a black 3 BEDROOM -2-STORY WITH Legal. Call Bev & Howard PANAMA CITY $99 At Heart 
published model photographer. 
soft case. Lost on 1/29 possibly BASEMENT, APPLIANCES, COLLECT 914-235-3917. DAYTONA $250 Free brochure. Joe Ringer. 287­between Flanner and JACC. FRESHLY PAINTED. 3150613. 
Contact Joe at x-1581 BRONSON $385 PLUS DEPOSIT CONTACT LANCE@ 271-1681 289-7 416 OR 234-9923. START MAKING SPRING BREAK PLANSI!I PALACE LAUNDRY 
SPRING BREAK DAYTONA 
LOST: Gold chain with half ...take a Bahamas cruise-S days on
Stay Where the Action is ....... 
heart pendant. Monday FOR SALE Grand Bahama lsland+cruise+hotel tonight at Bridget's
Oceanfront accomodations I 701 
evening between SOH & JACC. only $279 ADOPTION *keep the dream alive• 
South Nightclub. (as seen on MTV) 
VERY SENTIMENTAL!!! ... make a run for the border-go to Happy, loving couple wishes to
from $75.00. 18 and older IBM PS/2 55 386SX 60MBHD 
Call Ryan x1134. Cancun. Includes rdtrp air+hotel for raise your white newborn with 
welcome. Call today 1-800-633-2MBRam Math Co-Proc Software 
only$ $499 warmth and love. Can provide 
7010. Installed: Windows 3.0 MSWORD ...or chill in Jamaica, mon financial security and education. 
EXCELWP51
Lost: sterling silver ring Medical/legal expenses paid. Irish Music and Dance 
$1750.
with gold plating on front Also: South Padre and Panama City Please answer our prayers by Every Tuesday at Club 23 
Manuel 283-433 or 239-8528
and round blue lapis stone. for $199 and $99 calling Maureen & Jim. Call 1-800-SEAMAISIN
ATIENTION: SPRING BREAKERS 
Sentimental value. If found, 456-2656.
INTERESTED IN 
please call at X2948. Call LISA 283-4667 
Nlntendo System w/cartridges. CANCUN $460 $110-call Paul x1220 
Hi Punkin' BAHAMAS $279 
LOST 1/29 BTWN PE & JACC or at 7 NIGHTS ON SOUTH PADRE hey nit Have an awesome day!
SO. PADRE $199 
DePaul gm :gold neclace w/2 ISLAND FROM $199. I love you very much! 
DAYTONA $250 CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED
charms-"A" &lg"#1" If found Call CALL JAMES 277-9249 Luv, l.b.
PANAMA CITY $99 89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50, 
1715 of great personal value. STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA
87 MERCEDES $100, 65 Info on semester, year, graduate,MUSTANG $50. Choose from My S&S Honey: One year. My head summer and internship programs in
CONTACT LANCE @ 271-1681 thousands starting $25. FREE 24 
WANTED 
hasn't stopped spinning, my knees Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Happy Birthday to our favoriteHour Recording Reveals Details 
melting, or my heart pounding yet. I Melbourne. Programs start at mute, Tricia Desimone. 
801-379-2929 Copyright# love you always. F-a $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. Love,EARN UP TO $2000/MONTH 1N11KJC Your Roomies 
PROCESSING HUD/FHA ALTERATIONS AND REFUNDS IN YOUR SPARE TIME 
My power is beyond your 

DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL AS A U.S GOVERNMENT Zenith Portable Laptop, bklit, understanding The Lizard King lives on! Down with Mike Nugent 259-8684. TRACER. CALL THE U.S w/batt, 2 3.5" drives, EC, the Crustaceans! Happy 21st! 
GOVERNMENT TRACERS Call Chris x1723 Let,s have cocktails in Cicago HOTLINE AT 303-949-2174. 24 
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL sometime!
TYPING AVAILABLE HOURS. 
GROUP #43 

287-4082. Need any house PAINTING done? 
is meeting Sunday night at FAX MACS Fax your Mac Love,Experienced, quality painting 8:30 pm in the Montgomery documents for $1 page. Free The Nuzzis' CAMPUS BANDS WANTED TO at reasonable prices. Call Mark at Theatre of LaFortune­campus pick-up of your disk. CallFAST EASY INCOME! AUDITION FOR PROFESSIONAL 277-6578. 
Piease join us! Michael at 237-1864. 
Earn tOO's Weeekly Stuffing QUALITY MUSIC VIDEO. PLEASE Andrew,envelopes. Send self-addressed CALL 283-3710 BY FEBRUARY 11. 
Saturday was great!
stamped envelope to: Extra income! MOVING SALE: recliner-$1 00, 
Lando ....................... . Waiting for your call! 
P.O. Box 811699 Chicago, IL colonial sofa-$300, coffee table­A Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days Katie60681-1699 ND-SMC couple '81 offering FREE $50. Call Jim 233-2588. 
$279! Panama City $99, Padre ROOM AND BOARD for part-time $199, Cancun $499, Jamica $399 summer help with toddlers. 
CAMPUS BANDS WANTED TO from Chicago. Call Lance 271-1681 URBAN PLUNGERS of this year Barrington, IL area. Call 708-428-SAT. KEENAN REVUE TIX AUDITION FOR PROFESSIONAL or Lisa 283-4667 
and past years are invited to 1051. Jeff x 3328 QUALITY MUSIC VIDEO. PLEASE or 1-800-638-6786.
join in conversation and a 
CALL 283-3710 BY FEBRUARY 11.
question and answer period with Low Nanni and Mary Yu $40,000/YR! READ BOOKS and TICKETS on Monday, February 3, 6:30 TV Scripts. Fill out simple God bless our swimmers! Monk: selective blindness for 15 to 7:30 PM in the TV Lounge "like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun, 
MICH-ND B-BALL TICKETS years makes me wonder: what
of Siegfried Hall. relaxing at home, beach, vacations. 
I

NEEDED. 284-5084. can't you see, now?-Michael
Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 
­
To all the Safe H's: 

Hour Recording 801-379-2925 
Tom, Steve, Andy A, Oil, 

LOST/FOUND 
Copyright #IN11 KEB 
Need to buy and Beta Jeff. NO vs MICH Would you work me? garth brooks is an overrated FOUND: set of keys with key B-Ball tix I'D work me. drugstore cowboy. 
YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK 
chain on the road between the Pat#3360 (BBRRRRRRRPHFFFFFFFIII!II) -Willie, Waylon, and the boys 
TO LIVE! DO IT RIGHT! SPRING War Memorial and Nieuwland BREAK IN JAMAICNCANCUN,around 7:30 p.m. on Thursday 
"Grand OpeDiag"

FROM $429! INCLUDES HOTEL, 
evening t /23. Call x2822 to NEED 3 TICKETS FOR ND-MICH To Lucas Fairborn: 7TH ANNUAL MR. STANFORD 
AIR, TRANSFERS. 
MO'Bmm

claim. B-BALL!! CONTEST. FEB 8TH. 7:30 P.M.
SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426­
Rllll Milrl

CALL BETH 284-4409. I have some feelings about you that WASHINGTON HALL 
7710. 
1740 Soutli Bud AVI.
I would like to discuss over TICKETS CAN BE PURCHASED 
Boutll Bud, lN

LOST: ID case w/ Driver's License, dinner...tonight. AT LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE OR 
(ZlBI ln-7415

10, Senior Bar Card, and $15. Last NEED 4 ND-MICH B-BALL TIXS. IN STANFORD HALL ROOMS 119 
Rlla-llpa-Qicku

SPRING BREAK '92. Daytona,
Wed. in Cushing CALL JOHN 273-9165 -AmandaP. AND 223 FOR $3.00. ALL ud mucllmor•$149, Cancun $489, Bahamas
Contact Patricia x3865 PROCEEDS BENEFIT LOGAN 
t.III!T..TITIIMI!'IIVWR.t
$449. 
Ill' rAf AWAY 1!1111 CA""US
Please return, I don't exist CENTER.
Best prices & accommodations 
tiM II IND l!lJIY l lAS I!
withoutitlllll!l Need 1 Mich-ND This years' contestants include: 
lf ..'lflllRIIIIl­
guaranteed!!! 1 (800) 724-1555 or 
PUII.6111f Ill! NiallIf 236-5825 (24 hrs.) 
Ticket George Loves Rachel 1 . Mike Donnino 
.li!Ull.

LOST: Red-Orange silk scarf made Tom Loves Maul 2. Bill Kempf into a hairbow. Sunday morning x2546 Hal 3. Kevin Monahan between NOH and 4. Joel Link 
Keenan Review ticket: start
Mod quad. 5. Chris Peterson 
$30 -will go higher, call 
Contact Patricia x3865 Need Mich-ND COME CHEER ON YOUR
Mitch x4153 
Please return, VERY DEEP tix in a BIG way! TONY THE LOVE PONY-FAVORITE STUDS !!! SENTIMENTAL VALUE!!!! Derek X1374 orx1373
FOR RENT 
WANNA GO FOR A RIDE??????? LOST a pair of clear pink I LOVE CLEVELAND!!! glasses in a pink case 4-8 BEDROOM HOUSES FOR I NEED 4 LOWER SEAT TICKETS And must get home on wknd of the between Galvin and Farley RENT FOR 92-93. HURRY, NOT FOR NO-MICHIGAN BASKETBALL LOVE, 8th or on JPW. Will help pay gas. on 1/21 If found please call MANY LEFT. SECURITY GAME. THE LEWIS BIRD QUINT DAN #1891 Carolyn X4053 SYSTEMS, KEGERATORS. Call Lynn at x4940. 
287-4989. HI Ed Palm-is-an-oil FOUND: Mini 35 mm camera outfit. 
PERSONAL 
Was found just before Christmas FOR RENT: 3 BD HOUSE 1 BTH To the hitchhikers in Dillon, 
RESERVATiONS 4VA/LABLE NOWI 
break. Call Joe at x1208. TRILEVEL ON 5 ACRES. 10 MIN. We hope the ride was as good for 
DAYTONA BEACH .... 1104
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
FROM CAMPUS $500.00 MO. 1ST you as it was·for us! i'm A BETIER MAN, 
S Jnd 7 .'VICHT5
Good rates. Save Money. Call me
LAST + SEC. 684-3778. Emily, Jodi, and Jill STRAIGHT FROM THE FACTORY, 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND "•m'I2B
for a quote 9:30-6:00, 
5 4 !liD 1 •\'ICrl TS"
FOUND: MONEY IN HUDDLE. SEE just KILLIN' TIME. 
289-1993. Office near campus. 
STEAMBOAT ,.,m 1122
ONE OF THE MANAGERS IN THE 
2 ~ AND 7 .•.t(;H TS 
HUDDLE TO CLAIM. 
.,.. 

A MUST TO SEE: HISTORICAL Dear Cut Butt, Ip~~~~~ CITY BEACH 
1122 AREA SPACIOUS 1 BEDROOM, Belle: FORT LAUDERDALE ... 11JS
SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER 1 J NICHT5
FOUND,t/28: money, in Lafortune. HARDWOOD FLOORS, Remember FONDUE is a team 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND
Call X1678. FIREPLACE, APPLIANCES, sport, but when you cut your butt 
5 ~NO; NIC1-4TS
VACATIONS! 
.. ~'"' 

WASHER/DRYER, INCLUDES you stand ALONE Ill! Let's take the time to learn, to love, 
MUSTANG ISLAND I ..~.'ffB 
WATER, $410 PLUS DEPOSIT 532 to appreciate, ... to have a great 
PORT ARANSAS
Jamaica, Bahamas including 
S ~NO l NID~TS
LOST: GOLD RING WITH JADE CARROLL 289-7416 OR 234-9923. Love, time.
airfare, great hotel, and much more 
ltth •nnual from only $599. Buy from the #1
STONE. LOST ON JAN 22ND IN LIZZZ, MEE-YUH, & LEESA 
Celebration!
ROOM 23 OF HAYES-HEALY. I LOVE YOU Ill 
-
name you trust for quality vacations. 
TOlL Fl& IIFOIIIATIOfj &RESERVATIOIIS FOUR SEASONS 
HAS MUCH SENTIMENTAL 
VALUE. $REWARD. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY We Love the 
t·BOO·J2t·59tt I
1-800-331-3136.
CALL LISA AT X4832 219-291-7153. MENARCHE BROTHERSII Prince Charming 
,­
~ 
~------­

I page 14
' 
I I NCAA HOOPS SCORES AP TOP 25 I How the top 25 teams In The Associated Press
EAST 
college basketball poll tared Thursday: 
I 
Fairleigh Dickinson 70, Marist 69 
1. Duke (111-0) b..t No. 23 Florida State
lona 70, St. Peter"s 56 
75-62. Next: va. Notre DaiiMI, Saturday.
Maine 79, Boston U. 46 
2. UCLA (14·1) did not play. Next: at No. 24 
Manhattan 82. Canlslus 84 
Louisville. Sunday.
Massachusetts n. Rutgers 68 
I 3. Oklahoma St. (19-0) did not play. Next: vs. No.8
Md.-Bahlmore County 87, Buffalo 84 
I 
Missouri, Sunday. 
Northeastern 90, New Ha~hlre 51 
4. Indiana (15-2) did not play. Next: at No. 13
Alder 69, Holatra 61 
M lchlgan State, Saturday. 
Siena n. Fairfield 53 
5. Kansas (15-1) did not play. Next: at No. 18
St. Francis, NY 97, Mount St. Mary's, Md. 83 
I 
Oklahoma. Saturday. 
Temple 69, St. Bonaventure 52 
6. Connecticut (16-1) did not play. Next: vs. St.
Weat Virginia 68, St. Joseph's 77 
John's at Madison Square Garden, Saturday. 
SOUTH 
7. Arkansas (17·3) did not play. Next: at 
Alabama St. 118, Auburn-Montgomery 8 t 
Tennessee, Wednesday, Feb. 5. 
Alcorn St. 83, Mississippi Col. 81 
8. M lssouri ( 14-2) did not play. Next: at No. 3 
I Duke 75, Florida St. 82 
Oklahoma State, Sunday. I ' Georgia Southern 103, Stetson 67 9. Arizona (14-3) beat Oregon 104-53. Next: vs.
Georgia St. 1111. SE Louisiana 62 
Oregon State, Sunday. 
JacksonviKe 81, Florida A&M 65
! 
10. Ohio St. (13-3) beat Illinois 74-72. Next: at No.
Liberty 72, Winthrop 58 
15 Michigan, Sunday. 
Mercer 81, Fla. International 58 
11. North Carolina (14-3) did not play. Next: at No.
N. Carolina A&T 72, N.C.-Greensboro 57 
20 Georgia Tech, Sunday. 
I N.C. Charlotte n. Louisville 68, OT 
12. Syracuse (14-3) did not play. Next: vs. Seton
I NE Louisiana 74, Texas-Arlington 66 
Hall, Saturday. 
Samford 62, Centenary 57 
13. Michigan St. (13-3) did not play. Next: vs. No.4
Tenneasee Tech 75, Coli. of Charleston 67 
Indiana. Saturday.
~ 
Texas 105, Va. Commonweal!h 94 
14. Kentucky (15-4) did not play. Next: at LSU.
I Virginia Union 83. Winston-Salem 50 
Sunday.
W. Kentucky 68, New Orleans 67 
15. Michigan (12-4) did not play. Next: vs. No. 10
MIDWEST
I Ohio State, Sunday. 
' Ohio St. 74, IHinols 72 
16. Tulane (15-1) vs. Southern Miss. Next: at Wake 
I Tulsa 71, Bradley 61 
Forest, Monday, Feb. 3. 
I ,-Wis.·MIIwaukee 84, NE Illinois 61 
17. N.C. Charlotte (14-3) beat No. 24 Louisville n-
Wright St. 94, W. IHinols 80
1 68, OT. Next: at Southern Miss., Saturday. 
SOUTHWEST 
18. Oklahoma (14-3) did not play. Next: vs. No.5
I Arkansas Tech 72, Ouachita 64 
Kansas, Saturday. 
I louisiana Tech 89, Texas-Pan American 62 
19. Texas-EI Paso (16-1) at Utah. Next: at Brigham
SW Texas St. 85, Sam Houston St. 55 
! 
Young, Saturday. 
Tarleton St. 81, Baptist Christian 58 
20. Georgia Tech (15-5) did not play. Next: vs. No.
Texas-San Antonio 68, Stephen F.Austln 68, OT 
11 North Carolina. Sunday.
Trlnhy, Tex. 103, Schreiner 78 
21. UNLV (17-2) at Utah State. Next: at UC Santa
FAR WEST 
Barbara. Thursday, Feb. 6. 
Arizona 104, Oregon 53 
22. Alabama (16-4) did not play. Next: vs. Florida.
Montana 74, N. Arizona 59 
Saturday.
Oregon St. 61, Arizona St. 47 
23. 
Florida St. (13-5) lost to No. 1 Duke 75-62. Next: vs. Wake Forest, Saturday. 

24. 
Louisville (12-5) lost to No. 17 N.C. Charlotte n-68, OT. Next: vs. No.2 UCLA, Sunday. 

25. 
Southern Cal (14-3) did not play. Next: vs.


NBA STANDINGS 
Washington St., Thursday, Feb. 6. 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Dlvteton 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak New York 27 15 .643 7-3 Won 4 , ' Boston 27 16 .628 112 6-4 Won 2 Miami 21 23 .4n 7 5-5 Won 2,' Philadelphia 21 23 .4n 7 5-5 Lost 2 

Detroh at Atlanta. 7:30 p.rn Utah at Dallaa. 8:30p.m. Houston at Phoenix, 9-:J/J p.m. New Jersey at LA Clippers. 10:30 p.m. 
__, 
M.B.A ·J.D. M.D.· PH.D. 
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS. ' 
illll
!DUCUIONH GROUP 
TEST PREPAATION GRADUATE SCHOOL SELECTION 8c COUNSELING -LSAT • GMAT • GRE • MCAT 
SOUTH BEND • 273·1866 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
SCOREBOARD 
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES  CONFERENCE  
Petrick  Dlvlelon  
w  L  T  Pta  GF  GA  
NY Rangers  32  17  2  66  200 166  
Washington  29  17  4  62  214 167  
Pittsburgh  25  20  5  55  221 195  
New Jersey  24  16  7  55  181 146  
NY Islanders  18  24  6  42  182 197  
Philadelphia  16  24  9  41  141 170  
Adame  Dlvlelon  
Montreal  31  17  4  66  164 120  
Boston  26  19  6  58  179 171  
Buffalo  19  22  9  47  178 181  
Hartford  15  24  7  37  141 161  
Quebec  12  32  5  29  149 200  
CAMPBELL  CONFERENCE  
Norrie  Dlvlelon  
w  L  T  Pte  GF  GA  
Detroit  28  14  7  63  204 160  
Chicago  24  18  10  58  174 155  
St. Louis  21  20  9  51  176 173  
Minnesota  21  23  4  46  159 172  
Toronto  15  30  5  35  133 184  
Smythe  Dlvlelon  
Vancouver  28  14  7  63  173 141  
Winnipeg  21  22  9  51  156 156  
Calgary  21  22  7  49  189 176  
Los Angeles  19  19  11  49  178 189  
Edmonton  19  26  7  45  184 203  
San Jose  11  35  4  26  127 218  
Thuredey'e  Gemee  
Late Gamee  Not Included  
Boston 3, Calgary 1  
Phlladephia 5, Minnesota 3  
N.Y. Islanders 8, Pittsburgh 5  
N.Y. Rangers at Los Angeles, (n)  
St. Louis at San Jose, (n)  
Chicago at Vancouver, (n)  
Frlday'e  Gai!Mie  
Montreal at Buffalo, 7:35p.m.  
New Jersey at Detroit, 7:35 p.rn  
Quebec at Wlnnpeg, 8:35p.m.  
Hartford at Edrronton, 9:35 p.rn  
Saturdey'e  Gei!Mie  

Philadelphia at N.Y. Islanders, 5:05p.m. Buffalo at Boston, 7:05p.m. St. Louis at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. Calgary at Washington, 7:35p.m. 
N.Y. Rangers at Minnesota. 8:05p.m. Detroh at Montreal, 8:05 p.m. New Jersey at Toronto, 8:05p.m. Hartford at Vancouver. 8:05p.m. Chicago at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 
The Observer 
has positions available for 
DAY EDITOR 
Contact Dannika at 239-7471 or 283-4233 Must be available 
Monday or Wednesday Afternoons 
I Delroh 24 20 .545 13 6-4 Lost 1 
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF STUDENTS AT CATHOLIC COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 
AtllU1ta 23 20 .535 13 112 5-5 Won 2 Milwaukee 19 23 .452 17 2-8 Lost 5 
I 
I 
I 
Indiana 16 28 .364 21 3-7 Won 1I Charlotte 12 31 .279 24 112 3-7 Lost 1 WESTERN CONFERENCE 
Invite you to a reflection upon: 
Mldwaet Dtvlalon 
I 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Utah 28 17 .622 6-4 Won 1 
San Antonio 25 18 .581 2 6-4 Won 3 Houston 24 19 .558 3 7-3 Won 2 Denver 17 24 .415 9 4-6 Won 2 Dalas 13 29 .310 13 112 1-9 Lost 3 
(S(S~lEIR.VJIClB JIN ~OCJI1BTY: 
Mln,_ota 7 35 .167 19 112 1-9 Lost 9 Pacific Dlvt.lon Portland 29 13 .690 8-2 Won 4 Golden State 26 13 .667 1 112 5-5 Lost 3 
1JRIJB JROIL1B OIF 1flBI1B CATlBIOlLJICC COlLlLIBGJB ANII))
Phoenix 29 15 .659 1 8-2 Won 3 LA Lakers 26 16 .619 3 7-3 Won 3 Seattle 21 23 .4n 9 3-7 Lost 1 LA Clippers 20 23 .465 9112 3-7 Lost 3 
UNJIVIBIRSJITY~~ 
Sacramento 13 30 .302 16 112 5-5 Lost 1 
Thuredey'e a ...... 
Leta Game Not Included Cleveland 115, Orlando 98 Houston 105, Chicago 102 LA l.aka-a at Denver, (n) by 
Friday'• Gamee Oriando at Phiadelphla. 7-:JIJ p.rn New York at Washington, 7:30 p.m. Atlanta at Indiana. 7:30p.m. 
REVEREND WILLIAM J. BYRON, S.J. 
Seattle at Charlotte, 7:30 p.rn Mlaml at Delrot 8 p.m Boston at MUwaukee, 8 p.m. 
.(#' Chicago at Dalas, 8:30p.m. 
Mln.,.ota at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m PRESIDENT OF THE CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY OF AMERICA Phoenix at Utah, 9:30p.m. 
New Jersey at Portland, 10 p.rn RECENT APPOINTEE TO TilE PRESIDENT'S BOARD ON PUBLIC SERVICE Den-at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. LAC~ at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. Seturday'e Gai!Mie Boston at Philadelphia. 7:30p.m. 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 31 AT 8:00P.M. IN TIIE C.C.E. AUDITORIUM 
NewJ..aey 19 24 .442 8112 6-4 Lost 3 

Washington 14 28 .333 13 2-8 Lost 7 Orlando 11 32 .258 16 112 4-6 Lost 2 Central Dlvt.lon Chicago 37 7 .841 8-2 Lost 2 
,I 
, N.A.S .C.C. U.
r 
Cleveland 29 13 .690 7 6-4 Won 2 
FREE COLOR OR PERM 
Men and women needed for Redken Professional Hair Seminar. This is a great chance to get a new look from Roy Peters Top Color and Penn Expert. 
Tues., February 18, 1992 For more info, call Vicki or Kim at Maly's 256-2033 
Friday, January 31,1992 
page 15
The Observer 

SPORlS BRIEFS 
•Late 
Night Olympics playing schedules will be posted outside the RecSports office Thursday at 1 p.m. LNO reps may pick up a copy of the schedule after 1 p.m. Thursday at RecSports. 

•Attention 
all rowers, Novice practice will begin today at 


4:30 at the J.A.C.C. Fieldhouse. 
• 
Hapkldo/Tae Kwon Do practice every Monday and Wednesday, 6:30 p.m.-7:45 p.m. Room 301 Rockne Memorial. Beginners welcome. Any questions, call Sean at 283-3457. 

•The 
opening ceremonies for the AFROTC Basketball tournament will take place on Saturday, February 1 at 7:30 


a.m. in the J.A.C.C. The tournament which will include teams from throughout the Midwest, will conclude with the championship game at 12 p.m. on Sunday, February 2. 
•A 
Cross Country Ski Clinic for beginners is being offered on the golf course by RecSports, today at 4 p.m. Register in advance at RecSports. 

•Notre 
Dame Rugby: There will be a meeting on Tuesday, Fe~ruary 4, at 8 p.m. in the Loftus Center for anyone interested in joining. No experience or pads necessary. For all past members, practices are being held every Tuesday and Thursday at 9 p.m. at Loftus. We will be using SACS, so remember to bring them. 

•The 
Bookstore Basketball Tournament is looking for a new head and some assistant commissioners. Anyone interested should pick up an application at the student government secretary's desk on the second floor of LaFortune. Applications are due by Friday, February 7 and interviews will be held on February 10 and 11. Any questions, contact Kevin McGee at 234-5193. 

•The 
Notre Dame Judo Club will be holding practices beginning this Sunday from 4 to 6 p.m. and on Wednesday's from 8 to 10 p.m. in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial. Anyone interested is welcome to drop by and watch or participate. Anyone with questions may may call 283-2915 after 3 p.m. 

•The 
RecSports Downhill Ski Trip, originally scheduled for January 24 is rescheduled for Friday, February 7. Buses will leave the Library Circle at 5 p.m., and return at approximately 11 p.m. 25 dollars includes lift ticket, equipment and transportation. Register at RecSports by 5 p.m. Wednesday. 


rc·-~_ ~~-\ 
;Turile-.~Cfeek
·-----~-~---· 
Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 
2/1 0 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1 &2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses 
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
Women's tennis opens season at Illinois 
25th-ranked squad focused on task at hand after tragedy 
By RICH SZABO Sports Writer 
It will be a focused and uni­fied women's tennis team that takes to the courts tomorrow at Illinois to open up their season. 
The Irish, ranked 25th in the country, cancelled both of last weekend's matches with Ohio State and the Eck Doubles Classic in light of the tragic events concerning the women's swim team, events that no doubt brought them, along with the entire Notre Dame com­munity, closer together. 
"We were looking forward to playing, but in light of every­thing that happened, the best thing we could do was to show our support," said junior Eniko Bende. 
"I think the accident made ev­eryone feel closer," echoed se­nior Ann Bradshaw. "Swimming was what those people loved to do, and now things have changed. I really appreciate being able to play on a team at Notre Dame more than ever." 
When the Irish face Illinois, 

Melissa Harris 
they will be embarking on a season-long mission of contin­ual improvement. Under coach Jay Louderback, the team has seen records of 17-8 and 16-9, with Tracy Barton making the NCAA's two years ago and Barton and Melissa Harris competing last year. The next logical step in this progression is a team berth in the tourna­ment, a goal not at all unrealis­tic. 
Leading the way for the Irish will be first-singles player Harris, currently ran ked seventh in the country after compiling an 18-2 record in the falL Harris will most likely face the Illini's Lindsey Nimmo, who, like Harris, also participated in the NCAA tournament last year. 
At present time the remainder of the Irish lineup was unavail­able. However, Laura Schwab, Christy Faustmann, Terri Vitale, Lisa Tholen, Kristy Doran, Bradshaw, and Bende will all probably see action. 
As the team begins its quest for a first-ever tournament berth, a definite feeling of en­thusiasm can be felt among its members as they prepare for Illinois. 
"It'll be interesting because we haven't played a match in a while, plus this is an away game," said Bende. "Anything can happen, but we're pretty deep and we're playing well." 
"We are more cohesive than ever before," added Bradshaw. "Everyone wants the same thing. There are no individual players on the team, and people are sacrificing because they want the team to do well. We are more ready to play well this season than we ever have been in the past. We're loaded." 
Tyson's accuser testifies at rape trial 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Mike Tyson's teen-age accuser told a jury Thursday that the former heavyweight champ pinned her on a bed with his forearm, stripped her, raped her and laughed while she cried in pain and begged him to stop. 
"I said, 'Please, you're hurt­ing me! Please, stop!' And he started laughing, like it was a game," the 18-year-old told the eight-man, four-woman jury in Marion Superior Court. 
Tyson, 25, is charged with rape, confinement and criminal deviate conduct. If convicted, he faces up to 63 years in prison. 
The college student, who met Tyson during the Miss Black America pageant last year, was 
the second prosecution witness. 
..II!, 

THIS FRIDAY 
LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS 

FRIDAY OPEN SKATING 
8:00pm -1 0:30pm 
SKATE RENTAL 50 CENTS 
ALL PROCEEDS GO TO ST. JOSEPHCOUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
She testified in a clear voice about meeting the boxer at a pageant rehearsal on July 18 and making a tentative date with him. 
She said she was in bed when Tyson called her from his limousine and asked her to go out, and that she agreed after he said they would talk and sightsee. When she got to his car, she said, "He grabbed me and tried to kiss me. I kind of jumped back, and he said, 'Oh, you're not like these city girls. You're a good Christian girl."' 
The woman said they stopped at Tyson's hotel, presumably so he could make a phone call. They were watching TV and talking casually when Tyson's tone suddenly changed, she said. 
"He said, 'Do you like me?' And I said, 'I don't really know you. You seem OK.' And his voice changed, just like that. He said, 'You're turning me on.'" 
The woman said she told Tyson, "I don't know what you 
Correction 
In yesterday's Observer, a graphic incorrectly listed the starting times for this weekend's Prince Collegiate Classic. A graphic listing the correct times can be found on today's Scoreboard page. The Observer regrets the error. 
think I came up here for, but I'm going to the bathroom, and when I come out I want to see Indianapolis, like you said." 
Tyson agreed, but when she emerged from the bathroom he was sitting on the bed wearing only his underwear, she said. 
"I was terrified," she said. "I said, 'It's time for me to leave.' He said, 'Come here,' and grabbed my arm. I said, 'Stop! Get off me!' I tried to fight. It was like hitting a wall. 
"He kept saying, 'Don.'t fight me, don't fight me, relax, don't fight me,'" she said. 
She said he sexually assaulted her and she begged him to stop. "I was saying anything: 'I have a future, I can't have a baby, I don't need a baby.' 
"And he said, 'So we'll have a baby,'" and then continued the assault, she said. 
Defense lawyers cross-exam­ined the woman briefly before courtadjourned for the day. 
During opening arguments, the defense described the woman as a gold-digging op­portunist who concocted a story of rape out of anger. 
"Our contention is, (she) bears false witness against Mr. Tyson," said Vincent J. Fuller, Tyson's lead attorney. "She found herself treated as a one­night stand, and she has a compelling desire for money." 
\C()TT,IYXI~ $3.50t---'" 
All Shows 
ftl
Before 6 pm 
A family m.

Scottsdale Mall • 291-4583 
~~f&NEf PICTURES presents 
·Beauty
©=-~ Bandthe
east 

MY GIRL 
"TWO THUMBS UPI" 
&ket er l!belt rn:r;, DAILYIIII,NI,I:II ·~ lA'I'IMlN 1:11, .I...II, '1-.11, 1:11 
MICK 
-
••"T•v•z -v

JACICieA HOPKIN. 
..--· ~~~~~~ 
DAO.Y '=G. 7:11, .. IA'm!UN l:tl, .a,7:11,.. 
,l 
... 
-

UNIVERSITY OF NOTE DAME SUMMER SESSION 1992 COURSE LIST 
1bc 1992IUIXIIDCr ~eai<m will begin <m Tuc.day, Junc 23 (enrollment) and end on Wcdoosday, Aqust S(fmal curna). S<me COOJ'ICS --pimarily in ~eicncc, mathematiCI and lan&uqcs-will begin and end before or after thciC date~. Tbc swmncr 1e1li<m Bulletin will amtain compete IIChcdulc infmnatioo. the bulletin will be available at the Summer Scai<m Office (312 Main Building) beginnins <m Friday, February 14. 
Notre Dam: ccntinuing studcnlll --undergraduate and gradum: ltlldcntl in residence during the ipring ICRICiter of 1992 who arc eligible to return in the f.all. --mUll UIC DART 1) to rcgiacr for summer cour~e~ and 2) to add or mq, COOJ'ICI through Friday, Junc 26. lllltructi<m~ <m the UIC of DART for llliDIIlCJ' and a PIN (pcr1<mal idcntifx::ati<m number) will be ICIJl to all cattinuing ltlldcntl in mid-February. Cour~e call numbcrl, al<mg with all other COOJ'IC infmnali<m, will be publi.lhcd in the IUIDIDCr ~essi<m Bulletin. 
DART will be available for llliDIIlCJ' rc&dtrati<m from March 2 to 1:1 and from April I1 to June 26. Studc:ntl may rcgistr:r or mala: schedule chan&c• whenever they choose during these periods; no appoinlmcnt tUnc. arc ncccuary. 
Studcnlll may rc&dtcr for llliDIIlCJ' scssi<m couriCJI at any time up to the fll'll day of the cour~e. ltlldcob who decide to rcgdtcr after DART closes <m Friday, June 26 must complete the standard IRlii1IDCr scssi<mapplicatiorVooursc sclcc::tion form. 
Air caxlitimx:d and non-air ccnditioocd housing and (opti<mal) swmncr meal pam will be available. form~ for tb:sc ICt'Viccs may be obtained at tb: Swnmcr Sc11i<m 
Office at any time during the spring semester. Tuiti<m ((X' the sllJlUlX:r ~ession of 1992 will be $112 per credit hour plus a $25 general foe. 
AEROSPACE AND MECHANICAL ENGINEERING AERO 499. Undergraduate Research AERO 598. Advanced Studies AERO 599. Thesis Direction AERO 600. Nonresident Thesis Research AERO 699. Research and Dissertation AERO 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING ME 226. Mechanics II ME 321. Differential Equations and Applied Mathematics ME 327. Thermodynamics ME 334. Fluid Mechanics ME 342. Engineering Economy (London) ME 498A. Engineering, Society and the International Community ME 598. Advanced Studies (London) 
ME 599. Thesis Direction ME 600. Nonresident Thesis Research ME 699. Research and Dissertation 
AMERICAN STUDIES AMST 449. Writing Nonfiction AMST 463. The Self in Modern America AMST 498/598. Special Studies AMST 599. Thesis Direction AMST 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
ANTHROPOLOGY ANTH 490. Archaeological Field School ANTH 491. Ethnographic Field Methods & Techniques ANTH 498. Directed Readings 
ARctnTECIURE ARCH 598. Advanced Studies ARCH 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
ART. ART HISTORY. and DESIGN ART HISTORY COURSES ARHI 473. Michelangelo and Art of the Maniera ARHI 475/575. Directed Readings in Art History ARHI 599. Resident Thesis ARHI 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
STUDIO COURSES ARST 134. Basic Painting Policy ARST 209/210. Basic Ceramics ARST 244/444. Wood Sculpture ARST 245/445. Metal Sculpture ARST 409/509. Ceramics Studio ARST 433/533. Painting Studio ARST 499S. Special Studies ARST 585. Photography Stuido ARST 676. Directed Readings ARST 696. Thesis Project 
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES BIOS 494. Directed Readings BIOS 499. Undergraduate Research BIOS 569. Practical Aquatic Biology BIOS 599. Thesis Direction BIOS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research BIOS 672. Special Problems BIOS 699. Research and Dissertation BIOS 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
BUSINESS ADI\flNISTRATION ACCT 231. Principles of Accounting I ACCT 232. Principles of Accounting II ACCT 334. Cost Analysis and Control ACCT 371. Financial Accounting Theory and Practice I ACC[ 475. Auditing Theory and Practice ACCT 476. Introduction to Federal Taxation BA 230. Statistics in Business 
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING CHEG 499. Undergraduate Research CHEG 599. Thesis Direction CHEG 600. Nonresident Thesis Research CHEG 699. Research and Dissertation CHEG 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
CHEMISTRY AND BIOCHEMISTRY CHEM 116. General Chemistry CHEM 118. General Chemistry CHEM 223. Elementary Organic Chemistry I CHEM 223L. Elementary Organic Chemistry Laboratory I CHEM 224. Elementary Organic Chemistry II CHEM 224L. Elementary Organic Chemistry Laboratory II CHEM 499R. Undergraduate Research CHEM 599R. Thesis Direction CHEM 600R. Nonresident Thesis Research CHEM 699R. Research and Dissertation CHEM 700R. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
QVIL ENGINEERING and GEOLOGICAL SOENCES CE 498. Directed Studies CE 598R. Advanced Studies CE 599R. Thesis Direction CE 600R. Nonresident Thesis Research CE 698R. Advanced Topics CE 699R. Research and Dissertation CE 700R. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
GEOLOGICAL SCIENCES 
GEOS 499. Undergraduate Research 
CLASSICAL & ORIENTAL LANGUAGES & LITERATURES CLGR 101. Beginning Greek I CLGR 102. Beginning Greek II CLGR 103. Beginning Greek III CLGR SOOA. Beginning Greek I CLGR 500B. Beginning Greek II CLLA 101. Beginning Latin I CLLA 102. Beginning Latin II CLLA 103. Beginning Latin III CLLA 498. Special Studies CLLA SODA. Beginning Latin I CLLA 500B. Beginning Latin II MLAR 101. Beginning Arabic I MLAR 102. Beginning Arabic II MLAR 103. Beginning Arabic III MLAR 498. Special Studies MLJA 101. Beginning Japanese I MLJA 102. Beginning Japanese II MLJA 103. Beginning Japanese III MLJA 498. Special Studies 
COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 
COTH 201. Basics of Film and Television 
COTH 420. Acting Workshop 
COTH 450. Screen Writing 
COTH 451. Writers' Workshop 
COTH 460. The Photographic Image: Theory and Practice 
COTH 465/565. Computer Graphics and Animation 
COTH 474/574. Film and Media Genres: The Horror Film 
COTH 493A. Broadcast Internship (WNDU) 
COTH 501. Comparative Approaches to the Media 
COTH 515A. Multiculturalism, Literacy, and the Media 
COTH 515B. Post Modern Television 
COTH 515C. Contemporary Women's Fiction 
COTH 560. Television Production 
COTH 572. Advertising 
COTH 573. Public Relations 
COTH 598. Special Studies 
COTH 599. Thesis Direction 
COTH 600. Nonresident Thesis Research _ECONOMICS ECON 224. Principles of Economics II ECON 350. Economics of Labor Institutions ECON 421. Money, Credit and Banking ECON 498. Special Studies ECON 599. Thesis Direction ECON 600. Non-Resident Thesis Research ECON 697. Special Topics ECON 698. Directed Readings ECON 699. Research and Dissertation ECON 700. Non-Resident Dissertation 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING EE 222. Introduction to Electrical Science EE 224. Introduction to Electrical Networks EE 241. Logic Design and sequential Circuits EE 242. Electronic Circuits I EE 361. Microcomputers EE 498. Directed Studies EE 499. Undergraduate Research EE 598M. Directed Reading-VLSI Circuit Design EE 598R. Advanced Studies EE 599. Thesis Direction EE 600. Nonresident Research EE 698. Advanced Topics EE 699. Research and Dissertation EE 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
ENGINEERING NONDEPARTMENTAL EG 498. Research Experience for Undergraduates 
ENGLISH ENGL 322. The Novel: A Survey ENGL 409B. Writing Non-Fiction Prose ENGL 440. Shakespeare ENGL 487. The American Novel ENGL 498. Directed Readings ENGL 500. English for Non-Native Speakers ENGL 571. Modern British Drama ENGL 589A. The Puritan Imagination in American 
Literature ENGL 598. Special Studies ENGL 599. Thesis Direction 
ENGL 600. Nonresident Thesis Research ENGL 699. Research and Dissertation ENGL 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
GERMAN & RUSSIAN LANGUAGES & LITERATURES GE 101. Beginning German I GE 102. Beginning German II GE 125. Intermediate German I GE 126. Intermediate German II GE 500. German Graduate Reading 
GOVERNMENT AND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES GOVT 341. International Relations GOVT 520. Congress and Foreign Policy GOVT 497 I 498. Undergraduate Directed Readings GOVT 599. Thesis Direction GOVT 692 Directed Readings -Government GOVT 696. Examination Preparation GOVT 699. Research and Dissertation GOVT 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
HISTORY HIST 320. Crime and Society in Western Europe HIST 324. History and Legend in the Middle Ages HIST 357. War and Peace in the Nuclear Age: 1941-1991 HIST 369. American Indians and Anglo-Americans HIST 379. Direction Action and Passive Resistance 
in Modern America HIST 490. Directed Readings HIST 590. Directed Readings 
HIST 599. Thesis Direction BA 362. Legal Environment of Business 
COMPUTER SOENCE AND ENGINEERING 
HIST 600. Non-Resident Thesis Direction BA 490. Corporate Strategy 
CSE 332. Microcomputers 
HIST 697. Directed Readings F1N 231. Business Finance 
CSE 498. Directed Studi•'s 
HIST 699. Research and DissertationFIN 360. Managerial Economics HIST 700. Non-Resident Research and Dissertation -FIN 361. Business Conditions Analysis 
COMPUTER APPLICATIONS MGT 231. Prindples of Management CAPP 243. Introduction to Computers 
PROGRAM IN THE HISTORY ANDMGT 240. Computers in Business CAPP 353. Using the Computer to your Advantage: PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE MGT 381. Gender Issues in Managing CAPP 375. Current Trends in Computer Applications HPS 599. Thesis Direction MGT 382. Career Management CAPP 497. Special Projects HPS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research MGT 475. Human Resource Management 
CAPP 498. Departmental Tutorial 
HPS 603. Directed Readings MARK 370. Quantitative Analysis for Marketing Decision-Makir 
CAPP 499. Special Topics 

----------~---~-­
Friday, January 31,1992 page 17
The Observer 
SMC basketball to tangle with Saint Francis College 


The Observer/Marguerite Schropp Belles' forward Janet Libbing (33) will be relied upon heavily this weekend as Saint Mary's travels to Saint Francis College tonight. 
By EILEEN McGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
After a disappointing Wednesday night loss to Division I Northeastern Illinois, 97-71, the Saint Mary's Belles will try to regain the confidence they need to defeat Saint Francis College tonight. 
However, Coach Don Cromer believes that Wednesday's game should not bring the team down. 
"Never in all my years of coaching have I seen a player shoot 100 percent before, but Wednesday night against Northeastern (Illinois), I did," stated Cromer. 
Golden Eagles' sophomore forward Cyndie Donner shot eight-of-eight from the field-two-of-two from three-
Loyola Wrestlers hope to pin loss on 1Oth-ranked Buckeyes 
continued from page 20 ByJIMVOGL NCAA's, while the Irish were 4 record. He will likely draw a the country, but he keeps get­Sports Writer victorious in the previous two Buckeye freshman. ting hurt. If he's 100 percent, he 
tinued that pace this year. 
contests. Another outstanding per­can go with anybody," saidThree times she has notched 14 
The Notre Dame wrestling "We can compete with these former for the Irish this season McCann.
assists in a single game, but 
team will face the difficult chal­guys, but this year it's one of has been junior Jamie Boyd Notre Dame's other NCAAshe is not Loyola's only weapon. 
lenge of hosting lOth-ranked their best teams physically," (12-4-1) at 150, who will face
Senior forward Sherry Metz is hopeful is heavyweight Chllck 
Ohio State at 7:30 p.m. tonight said McCann. "They're just so OSU's Ken Ramsey. Weaver, who will battle one oftheir main inside scoring threat in the Joyce ACC. much stronger than we are. We But McCann anticipates the several OSU transfers in Ericand she will be another focal 
"They're probably the tough­don't want to be intimidated." key matchup being at the 177-Mendoza. "Chuck has gottenpoint of the Irish defense. 
If the Irish can shut down est team on our schedule this Several Irish grapplers see pound level, where J .J McGrew bigger and stronger, and is season," said eight-year Irish the challenge as a mid-season will battle last year's NCAA wrestling with a lot of confi­
Loyola's two main threats and 
coach Fran McCann. The stepping stone to the NCAA runner-up, Kevin Randallman. dence," said McCann of Weaver, put together an offensive per­Buckeyes beat the Irish last tournament. Senior Marcus "This one should be worth the who was overshadowed last
formance comparable to the 
season, 27-6, en route to a Gowens has emerged as a price of admission. J .J. has the season by NCAA qualifier CurtDetroit game, they could be 
fourth-place finish in the leader, currently sporting a 16-ability to be one of the tops in 
KROC INSTITUIE for INTERNATIONAL PEACE STUDIES liPS 396/496. Directed Readings UPS 427/527. Conflict Resolution: Theory and Practice liPS 434/534. The Art of Peacemaking: Gandhi, Buber and Freire liPS 488A/588A. Contemporary Issues in International Conflict and 
Cooperation liPS 501. Colloquium on Cross-Cultural Understanding liPS 530. Peace Studies Laboratory liPS 599. Thesis Direction liPS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research UPS 692. Directed Readings liPS 695. Field Experiences 
MATiiEMATICS MATH 104. Finite Mathematics MATH 105. Elements of Calculus I MATH 106. Elements of Calculus II MATH 126. Calculus II MATH 211. Computer Programming and Problem Solving MATH 499. Undergraduate Reading MATH 511. Computer Programming and Problem Solving MATH 552. Mathematical Induction and its Applications MATH 579. Introduction to PASCAL MATH 698. Advanced Graduate Reading MATH 699. Research and Dissertation MATH 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
MEDIEVAL INSTITUTE MI 470. Medieval Latin MI 497. Directed Readings MI 541. Narratives of Faith from Augustine to Aquinas MI 597. Directed Readings MI 599. Thesis Direction MI 600. Nonresident Thesis Research MI 699. Research and Dissertation Ml 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
MUSIC 
MUS 222. Introduction to Symphonic Music MUS 310/510. Piano MUS 311/511. Organ MUS 313. Guitar MUS 314/514. Voice MUS 316/516. Cello MUS 498. Undergraduate Special Studies MUS 598. Special Studies MUS 599. Thesis Direction MUS 600. Non-Resident Thesis Research 
MATERIALS SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MSE 499. Undergraduate Research MSE 598. Advanced Studies MSE 599. Thesis Direction MSE 600. Nonresident Thesis Research MSE 698. Advanced Topics MSE 699. Research and Dissertation MSE 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Belles look to recover from loss to Golden Eagles 
PHYS 221. Physics 1 PHYS 222. Physics II PHYS 499. Undergraduate Research PHYS 598. Special Topics PHYS 699. Research and Dissertation PHYS 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
PROGRAM OF LffiERAL STUDIES 
PLS 280. Undergraduate Great Books Seminar "The Great 
Conversation" PLS 501. Madison: The Federalist Papers PLS 502. Joyce: Portrait of the Artist PLS 503. Plato: The Republic PLS 504. The Gospel of John PLS 505. Milton: Paradise Lost PLS 506. Tolstoy: Anna Karenina PLS 507. The Development of Conscience and Character: Ancient 
and Modem Views PLS 508. John Henry Newman: A Thinker's Journey to God PLS 477. Directed Readings 
PSYCHOLOGY PSY 341. Experimental Psychology I: Statistics PSY 341L. Experimental Psychology I: Laboratory 
PSY 351. Child Development PSY 354. Abnormal Psychology PSY 397. Special Studies PSY 497. Special Studies PSY 560. Research Methodology PSY 561. Foundations of Counseling PSY 599. Thesis Direction PSY 600. Nonresident Thesis Direction PSY 663. Psychopathology PSY 678. Seminar in Family Therapy PSY 691A. Advanced Special Issues in Counseling PSY 691B. Advanced Issues in Statistics and PSY 693. Reading Projects: Special Topics PSY 695. Research Projects: Special Topics PSY 699. Research and Dissertation PSY 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
PHILOSOPHY 
PHIL 201. Introduction to Philosophy 
PHIL 225. Scientific Perspectives of Humanity 
PHIL 227. Ways of Knowing 
PHIL 234. The Art of Peacemaking: Gandhi, Buber and Freire 
PHIL 246. Ethics and Business 
PHIL 261. Philosophy of Religion 
PHIL 312. Nietzsche's Trilogy 
PHIL 498. Directed Readings 
PHIL 598. Directed Readings 
PHIL 699. Research and Dissertation 
PHIL 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
point range-while successfully completing five-of-five free throws. In all, Northeastern Illinois shot 79 percent, while Saint Mary's only shot 38 percent. 
In addition, junior center Julie Snyder led the scoring with 14 points and eight re­bounds. 
Senior forward Janet Libbing was held to 11 points and six rebounds, while senior forward Catherine Restovich chipped in with 10 points and six rebounds. 
Therefore, Cromer's practice session for Friday's game em­phasized perimeter shooting, free throw shooting, as well as zone and man-to-man defense. 
"We kept practice short tonight with the hope that 
they'll be ready to go tomor­row," stated Cromer. 
In the last match against Saint Francis, the Belles lost to the NAIA team. 
"Quickness is one of Saint Francis' attributes," explained Cromer. "They also have a cou­ple of big girls on the team that act as a great asset for them." 
Senior captain Janet Libbing, whose hometown (Fort Wayne, Ind.) houses Saint Francis, agrees. 
"The coaches for Saint Francis were rival coaches for our grade school team," ex­plained Libbing. "They like to run the fast break. From our 
-· 
last encounter, Saint Francis is fundamentally strong and quick. We need to beat them at their own game if we want to succeed." 
SOC 102. Introduction to Sociology SOC 210. Gender Roles and Violence in Society SOC 220. Social Psychology SOC 301. Inequality in American Society SOC 306. Race Relations in the U.S. SOC 311. Environmental Sociology SOC 319. Sociology of Sport 
I 
SOC 498. Directed Readings 
I 
SOC 599. Thesis Direction 
I

SOC 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
I
SOC 655. Directed Readings 
I

SOC 699. Research and Dissertation SOC 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
THEOLOGY THEO 200. Foundations of Theology: Biblical/Historical THEO 200. Foundations of Theology: Biblical/ Historical THEO 250. Roads to God THEO 260. Christian Ethics THEO 498. Directed Readings THEO 500. Introduction to Graduate Studies THEO 500A. Themes and Texts in the Catholic Tradition THEO 502. Life Cycles in Jewish Liturgy: 
Introduction to Judaism THEO 507A. Elementary Hebrew THEO 509G1. Beginning Greek I THEO 509G2. Beginning Greek II THEO 509G3. Beginning GREEK III 

THEO 513. Paul's Life and Letters THEO 516. John's Gospel THEO 522. Historical Theology (Medieval) THEO 530. Fundamentals of Systematic Theology THEO 531. Theology of Revelation THEO 532. Christology THEO 534. Doctrine of God THEO 537. Sacramental Theology THEO 552. Interpersonal Ethics THEO 560. Liturgical History 
-
THEO 561. Christian Initiation 
THEO 562. Eucharist 
THEO 563. Liturgical Prayer 
THEO 564. Liturgical Year 
THEO 566D. Orders and Ministry 
THEO 570A. Protestant Worship 
THEO 572. Ritual Studies 

THEO 572C. Liturgy and Popular Culture 
THEO 573L Comps Review-Liturgical Studies 
THEO 573T. Comps Review-Theological Studies 
THEO 574. The Bible and Liturgy 

THEO 590. History of Liturgical Music 
THEO 591A. Liturgical Law 

THEO 598. Directed Readings THEO 599. Thesis Direction THEO 600. Nonresident Thesis Research THEO 699. Research and Dissertation 


~------------~-------­
page 18 The Observer Friday, January 31,1992 
Men's tennis hosts Prince Classic 
Toughest test to come Sunday when Irish take on Texas 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
It's gut-check time for the Notre Dame men's tennis team. 
Ranked tenth in the nation, the Irish host the first-ever Prince Collegiate Classic this weekend. 
Led by David DiLucia, ranked second nationally, Notre Dame will face Colorado, Michigan State and Texas. The action will kick off this afternoon when the Irish face Colorado at the Eck Pavilion. 
The Buffaloes are led by Jesper Witt, a Swede who is ranked 24th in college tennis. 
"Colorado will be a real test," said Bayliss. "They've had a great recruiting year." 
Stephen Figli, a freshman,
.. 
and Marc LeClerc also star for the Buffaloes. Figli reached the round of 16 at the National 18­and-under tournament last year, while LeClerc downed Will Forsyth in action last season. 
"They'll be a very potent team," he said. "We are their first match, and this is only our second. Both teams will be green and eager. I'd look for a 
Forsyth 
continued from page 20 
worked hard and has become a premier collegiate player. He has shored up a lot of weak­nesses and become a dominant player." 
"it's mainly a mental thing of having enough confidence in myself where I can be confident in my ability to beat the na­tion's top players," explained Forsyth. 
Forsyth is currently ranked 43rd in the collegiate rankings, a number he would like to im­prove on. Yet, he sees the im­provement of the team's lOth­place slot in the national rank­ing as a higher priority. 
"Ultimately I'd like to be in the top 20-25 and qualify for the NCAA tournament, but I don't like to set personal goals," said Forsyth "I just try to put things into perspective, play hard, and help the team." 
"DAZZLING! 
John Gielgud is astounding." -Peter Travers, ROLLING STONE 
"MAGNIFICENT! 
llcautiful...leaves you goggling in amazement!" -Graham Fuller, INTERVIEW 
..~ 
"SEXY! 
John Gielgud has a commanding presence."
-
close match." 
Saturday could prove to be a rest area on Notre Dame's tournament highway as the Irish face Michigan State. The Irish downed the Spartans 7-2 last season. 
"Unless we're flat or play a bad match, we should be able to win," said Bayliss. "We're a little better team than they are at this point." 
The biggest test of the week­end will come Sunday when Notre Dame takes on Texas. 
"It's a big deal for us to get a team of national prominence like Texas at home," said Bayliss. "Texas has three new foreign players. I know nothing about them. Neither do the vot­ers, so they are not voting for the team." 
Hailing from Mexico, Australia and South Africa are Ernesto Ponce, Glyde Thompson and Alistaire McDonald. 
"They've just arrived on cam­pus within the last two weeks," said Bayliss. "They are coming straight off of the pro circuit, where they've been playing as amateurs." 
Another welcome addition to the Longhorn lineup in 1991-92 is freshman Trey Phillips. 
Phillips, who hails from Austin, Texas, home of the University of Texas, brings im­pressive credentials to the Prince Collegiate. 
He recently lost a close match to Alex O'Brien, currently ranked number one in the country. 
Following DiLucia in the Irish seedings will be juniors Chuck Coleman, Forsyth and Andy Zurcher, all of whom are com­peting for the number-two sin­gles spot. 
"They (Coleman, Forsyth and Zurcher) have made a marked improvement and worked hard," said Bayliss. "We have three number twos, and Mark Schmidt is not far behind." 
However, one of these number twos will be bumped to number three, and another to number four. 
"Last season, we didn't win consistently at number two," said Bayliss. "When either Andy (Zurcher) or Chuck (Coleman) moved to number three, they would win. But they weren't consistent at two." 
Hockey faces preview of CCHA life vs. Bulldogs 
By ANTHONY KING Associate Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame hockey team will join the CCHA next year, but this weekend they will get a preview of the stiff competition that awaits them. 
The Irish (8-1 0-1) take on CCHA member Ferris State for a home-and-home series that will send them to Big Rapids, Michigan, on Friday, with a return trip to the Joyce Field­house for a Saturday face-off. 
The Bulldogs may sport a record of 5-12-6, but they have faced tough CCHA opponents in every game, with the exception of only two non-conference games. Ferris State is coming off a productive weekend series with Miami of Ohio, gaining a 
win and  a  tie against the  
Redskins.  
Between  the  pipes  the  

Bulldogs are solid, as sopho­more Craig Lisko has proven more than worthy as goal­tender. Lisko made 61 saves against Miami this past week­end, and earned himself CCHA player of the week honors. He also boasts a 3.21 goals against average and a .899 save percentage. 
The top scoring threat for Ferris State is Tim Christian, who leads the Bulldogs with 21 points on the season. 
"We plan to use a conserva­tive forecheck plan," said Irish winger Lou Zadra. "We'll be bringing a third guy over to help out the defense. They have good scoring forwards, and we have to contain them. n 
The Irish are looking to break a seven-game slide ver­sus Ferris State, and a 14­game CCJIA losing streak. Notre Dame has not beaten the Bulldogs since 1983. 
"lfs a lot more fun to play the big teams than the weaker teams," explained Zadra. "We come out fast and seem to have a more competitive attitude." 
Irish center Curtis Janicke hopes to continue his hot hand against Ferris State, and extend his current 14-game point streak. Janicke leads the team with 30 points. 
• 

The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz After transferring from Trinity University, junior Will Forsyth has become an integral member of the 1Oth-ranked men's tennis team. 
{
•

"STUNNING! 
An extravaganza!" -Caryn James, THE NEW YORK Tl~lES 
"VISUALLY 
BEAUTIFUL! 
john ( ;iclgud gives a magisterial pcrfonnance." ( -John i\ndcrson, NEW YORK NEWSDAY • 
Notre Dame Communication & Theatre 
CinEmA AT THE SniTE 
FRI & SAT 7: 15, 9:45 
IAlllouCan Eat 
Sbon~'s Sou_p, • Salad &Fruit Bar I
.SHONEYS 
I 
(1......1 ...... .1 Bar Slxmey·, wl'ic<nne' 1hc IICards ~ .xdltftftl Anl<.'ri<'an Expre."' Card. . ' 
303 DIXIE WAY SOUTH, ROSELAND •
l,_________r-~ _%4__________ 
Boiled Shrimp 
Plump, tender, boiled just right. 

Fried Shrimp 
Baked Fish 

Lightly seasoned, natural cut. 
Only $8.99 

Friday and Saturday. Fried Clams Starting at 5:00 p.m. Tender clams fried golden brown. 
Vegetables 
And much, much more. 

I
The Seafood Har Includes 1 
Friday, January 31, 1992 
The Observer page 19 
THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON Calvin and Hobbes by Bill Watterson 
',, 
Will. II= iO\l SIT OL\JIN F\N'IW\.1~, IB.l. I-IlM ITS 
A.LMOS\ 1\ME RJR \)INNE.'K 
JAY HOSLER 

LECTURES 
Friday 
12:15 pm. Friday Forum for Faculty and Staff, "Sesquicentennial Year: Notre Dame and the Social and Ethical Issues of an Interdependent and Technological World." Center for Social Concerns. Admission free. 
8 p.m. "Service in Society: The Role of the Catholic College and University," Father William Byron, the President of the Catholic University of America and recent appointee to the President's Board of Public Service, Center for Continuing Education auditorium. Part of the National Association of Students at Catholic Colleges and Universities' National Conference at Notre Dame this weekend. 
Monday 
2:30 "Solutions for Resolving Conflict." Ruth Andrews from the Victim-Offender Reconciliation Program. Multi-purpose room of the Center for Social Concerns. 
MEIU 
©Edward Julius  Collegiate CW8816  CAMPUS  Notre Dame  
l  ACROSS 1 Edible fruit 6 High-ranking angel 12 Buffing cloth 14 City in Missouri 15 Barbed spear 16 Extra bit 17 George's lyricist 18 Calendar word 20 Weather outlook 21 Sun­23 Element #54 24 Mineral suffix 25 Longest river in Fra nee 27 Edge 28 As yet (2 wds.) 29 Stereo accessory 31 More contemptible 32 Prevaricated 33 Like new 34 Condiment 36 Footwear 39 Exhausted 40 "My-Sal" 41 1951 PGA champion 43 Carry  44 Bandleader Xavier 46 Part of Fred Flintstone phrase 47 Musical instrum. 48 Young girls 50 Cone-bearing tree 51 Ice cream dish 53 Protective sub­s ta nee 55 Burdensome 56 Hires 57 Fortifications 58 Wise guys DOWN 1 Ancient monarch 2 Oregon Trail fort 3 Sports official, for short 4 Debatable 5 Plains Indian 6 Type of car 7 Whirlpool 8 Drive into 9 Shad-1 ike fish 10 Bat handle sub­stance (2wds.)  11 Mad -12 Coldness 13 Showed scorn 14 Sin city 19 Peevish state 22 Type of candy 24 -found 26 Decree 28 Well-known hotel 30 Understand 31 Container 33 Vague discomfort 34 City in Washington 35 -out (came to an end) 36 Droops 37 Foliage 38 Ancient Italian people 39 Dazed condition 40 Surges of wind 42 Bar game 44-Julius Caesar 45 Time of 1 i fe 48 French city 49 Tale 52 Title for a friar 54 Billiards term  Friday 8 p.m. Late Night Olympics. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students. Admission benefits the St. Joseph County Special Olympics. Joyce ACC. Friday and Saturday 7:15 and 9:45pm. Film, "Prospero's Books." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission $2. 8 and 10 p.m. Film, "Deceived." Cushing Auditorium. Admission $2.  Swedish Meatballs Baked Pollack Sesame Vegetable Rice Casserole Pork Tenderloin Sandwich Saint Mary's Philly Sandwich Deli Bar Turkey Cutlets-Copenhagen California Quiche  
MARCH 6-15 7 NIGHTS AT THE RAMADA INN FOR $239!! 


BUS TRANSPORTATION INCLUDED 
0 
0
SIGN-UPSDATES: January27-February7,199~ 
(A $75 DEPOSIT IS REQUIRED AT SIGN-UPS) 
Contact the Secretary i1 the Student Government OffiCe, 2nd Floor LaFortune Student Center 
a 
CALL 239-7668 
Pacific Heights Thursday, January 30 8 PM & 10:30 PM 
Deceived 


Sports 
page 20 Friday, January 31 1992 
Top-ranked Blue Devils next up for streaking Irish Tower out as Notre Dame travels to Duke 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR ing point guard Bobby Hurley team from their perch atop the 
Sports Writer and forwards Thomas Hill and AP poll. 
Grant Hill. During the 1980-81 season, 
Knocking off number ones has The balanced attack of the the Irish defeated the top­
become something of a tradition Blue Devils has left opponents ranked Kentucky Wildcats 67­
under the Golden Dome, as in its dust all season. Duke's 61 in late December. Two 
Irish sports teams have played most recent victims were the months later the number-one 
giant-killer as often as they 23rd-ranked Florida State Virginia Cavaliers, led by Ralph 
have played giant. Seminoles, who fell 75-62 in ac­Sampson, fell to the Irish 
Digger Phelps led his Notre tion last night. charge, 57-56. 
Dame basketball teams to vic­Defending against Laettner in A year earlier, the Irish took 
tories over top-ranked teams the blue key of Cameron will be two overtimes, but ultimately 
numerous times in his 20-year sophomore Jon Ross. Ross will drained the DePaul Blue 
coaching career. start in place of senior center Demons, led by Mark Aguirre 
Tomorrow, his successor will Keith Tower, who fractured his and Terry Cummings, 76-74. 
try to follow in his footsteps, as left elbow in the second half of Notre Dame put another tally 
John MacLeod leads the Irish Wednesday's victory over mark in DePaul's all-time loss 
into the unfriendly confines of DePaul. He will be out two-to­column on Wednesday night, 
Cameron Indoor Stadium to six weeks. defeating the Blue Demons 74­
face the number-one Duke Blue However, all the news is not 69. The win was NO's second in 
Devils. bleak. The Irish still have his­a row, and upped its record to 
Duke (16-0), the defending tory on their side. The last time 7-8 on the season. 
NCAA champion, is led by All­the Irish played the number one 
American Christian Laettner, a team in the nation, they came Led once again by the senior 
senior who sank two free out on top, as David Rivers and trio of Elmer Bennett, LaPhonso 
throws to seal the Blue Devils' Gary Voce led a second-half Ellis and Daimon Sweet, the 
victory over "unbeatable" UNLV charge as Notre Dame knocked Irish showed that they can win 
last March in the NCAA off North Carolina in a 60-58 ugly. To beat the Blue Devils, 
semifinals. nailbiter. however, the Irish will have to 
Laettner brings with him a Three more times in the play well. And hope that history 
strong supporting cast, includ-1980's did Notre Dame topple a repeats itself. 
Women's hoops looks to extend win streak vs. Loyola 
By JASON KELLY that adversity well with a win ers that play well together. overall and 2-2 in the lot of pressure on the ball and Sports Writer over MCC rival Detroit on We've had some good practices conference. force them out of their offense." Wednesday night, and they will this week and I think we've Beating the Ramblers will not Forcing the Hamblers out of 
Less than two weeks ago, the be in action again tomorrow found a good balance." be as easy for the Irish, who their offense means shutting Notre Dame women's basketball afternoon at 2:00 p.m. at the They had the right balance lost a day of practice yesterday down MCC assist leader team left Indianapolis with two Joyce Center against Loyola. against Detroit, dumping the because of the power outage at Mariano Murtaugh. big losses. Finding the right chemistry Titans 86-70. Four players were the Joyce Center. If they can "Murtaugh is the key to their 
Not only did Butler knock off has been a problem for the Irish in double figures, led by senior pick up where they left off team," Washington added. "We the Irish 77-63, but freshman this season, but they seem to be Margaret Nowlin's 20 points. against Detroit, however, they have to pressure her and force guard Audrey Gomez tore her coming together as their Washington dished out eight should come out on top. their offense to do things they anterior cruciate ligament and schedule winds to a close. assists to key the offense. Letitia "We need to play together and don't want to do." would be lost for the season. It "We've had problems finding Bowen grabbed 11 rebounds as get good ball movement and Over the past two seasons, seemed like their fortunes the right combination," junior the Irish dominated the battle of good shots on offense," Murtaugh has collected more would never improve. guard Coquese Washington the boards, 56-30. The win Washington explained. than 400 assists and has con­
However, they responded to said. "We need to find five play-improved their record to 5-11 "Defensively, we've got to put a see LOYOLA I page 17 


Forsyth a winning addition as Irish gain national reputation 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
• Prince Collegiates 

Sports Writer preview/page 18 
Notre Dame men's tennis January it was a little rough 
team member Will Forsyth may coming in, and it took me a 
not be the highest regarded while to adjust," said Forsyth. 
player on the Irish team, but he "But the team is a real special is definitely a main reason why group and we got along really Notre Dame has gained na­well." tional recognition in recent In his first season with Notre months. Dame, Forsyth showed flashes 
Forsyth, an Oregon native, of brilliance. He competed at came to Notre Dame from both the number two and num­Trinity University in Texas fol­ber three singles positions for lowing his sophomore year. Out the Irish, finishing with a 15-17 of high school, he was heavily record and ranked 15th in recruited by the Irish but de­Region IV. His greatest success 
cided to stay closer to home. came with fellow junior Andy After Trinity dropped from Zurcher playing number two Division I status, Forsyth asked doubles for the Irish. The duo his coach to inquire about his qualified for the NCAA champi­transferring to Notre Dame. onships last season, compiling a 
"His coach at Trinity called 12-7 overall record. 
me based on them dropping A rigorous off-season fitness their program from Division I," program has Forsyth talking said coach Bob Bayliss. "They about greatly improving on last 
sent me a release, and then year's performance. after Will and I talked fre­"In the last nine months, I quently, he came out for a visit have spent quite a bit of time in and met the team." the weight room and now it is 
After visiting the campus, paying off," said Forsyth. Forsyth made the decision to Bayliss has also seen the im­continue his collegiate career provement in Forsyth's game with the Irish. Although Notre and has high expectations for Dame was clearly his first .the talented junior. choice, the move wasn't without "I expect a lot from him this difficulty. season," said Bayliss. "He's 
'When I transferred last 
see FORSYTH I page 18 





