The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 16 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Shields says Clinton speech stresses voters upset Catholic service, values 
By DAVID KINNEY • Clinton protesters I page 5 
News Editor 

with parties 
the Homeless and Alumni 
By EMILY HAGE Although drawing heavily 
Summer Service Projects. 
News Writer from Catholic social teaching, "In our role as citizens, we Democratic presidential candi­should not see ourselves only
The two distinguishing fea­date Gov. Bill Clinton's Friday 
as our brothers' and sisters' 
tures of American policy are speech at Notre Dame was keepers," he said, "but we must fundamental optimism and a marked pro-choice references 
also be our brothers' and 
belief in change, according to directly opposite that of the sisters' helpers." 
political analyst Mark Shields, Catholic Church. 
Clinton expressed his at­
who spoke on "The Making of Amid outbursts from right-to­tachment to the Catholic social 
the President: 1992" at the Col­life supporters, Clinton ad­mission, emphasizing his edu­lege of Business Administra­dressed over 2,100 students, 
cation at Georgetown Univer­tion's Advisory Council Friday. faculty and staff in Stepan sity, a Catholic institution. "I "What's missing from the Center. Several thousand loved the Catholic understand­campaign of '92 is a sense of others listened outside over ing of history and tradition and 
optimism," he said. loud-speakers. 
how they shape us." Shields traced American poli­Clinton drew rousing ap­He tied his service message to 
tics to the Founding Fathers, plause -and protests -after a plan to give college loans to noting the shift of American suggesting that it is more im­all students, offering them the 
optimism from the Republicans portant to help born than un­opportunity to pay back the to the Democrats after the born children, quoting the 
debt by serving in "a peace
Great Depression. when the mother of an adopted child corps here in America to re­
Democrats came to represent with AIDS: build America." 
"change, optimism, and na­"Governor, I respect this de­Comparing the plan to Harry
tionalism." bate that's going on in our 
Truman's GI Bill and John 
According to Shields, from country about life, but how I Kennedy's Peace Corps, he said 
1960 to 1980, Americans' wish we would all reach out 
the plan will "send a message
"fundamental optimism as a and help the children who are 
that our society values and 
people" was seriously tested by living." 
honors community service." 
obstacles like inflation and war. Clinton, a southern Baptist, 
Clinton invoked passag~s
The result of these troubled attempted to win Catholic votes 
from The Bible and rec'ent years, he explained, is that to­by honoring the service tradi­pastoral letters by the National 
day 65 percent of Americans tion of both Notre Dame and Conference of Catholic Bishopsbelieve that their political lead­the Catholic Church. 
to help emphasize his stance on 
ers are corrupt and that there "I want an America where families and the economy. 
is no favorable majority party, service is a way of life, as it is "I want an America that does 
only two seriously flawed par­here at Notre Dame," said Clin­
more than talk about family
ties. ton, praising the University's 
values," he said. "I want an 
Shields added that in this Center for Social Concerns and participation in the Center for see CLINTON I page 4 
see SHIELDS I page 6 


Clinton calls Americans to serve as brothers' helpers in Stepan speech 
Editor's note: The following are excerpts from Democratic presidential candidate Gov. Bill Clinton's speech at Notre Dame's Stepan Center Friday. 
The American community should speak in a clear and cer­tain voice that some things are right, and some things are wrong. On any day, in any time, in any place, violence is wrong, bigotry is wrong, abandoning children is wrong. 
But our religious traditions teach us more than these "thou shalt nots." In our role as citi­zens, we should not see our­selves only as our brothers' and sisters' keepers, but we must also be our brothers' and sisters' helpers. 
If we truly believe -as al­most everyone says no matter what they believe on certain is­sues -that children are God's most precious creation, then surely we owe every child born in the U.S.A. the chance to make the most of his or her God-given potential. ... 
If I could select a watchword for America, it would be the ti­tle of the recent pastoral letter by the National Conference of Catholic Bishops: "Putting Chil­dren and Families First." They offered the counsel of common sense and common decency.... 
I want an America that does more than talk about family values; I want an America that values families. 
I want an America that values families by recognizing that parents have the right to take time off from their jobs when a baby is born or someone in their family is sick. 
I want an America that values families by freeing fathers and mothers from the fear that they won't be able to afford to take a sick child to the doctor. 
And I want an America that values families by helping every parent enjoy the dignity of a job that puts bread on the table, buys shoes for the children, and holds the household together. 
An America that honors and rewards work -not just in our words but in our deeds. 
I also share the values ex­pressed in the Bishops' pastoral letter on the economy: that every institution and every economic decision in our society must be judged by whether it protects or undermines the dignity of the person. And, for everyone who can work, human dignity is first and foremost the opportunity and the obligation to support oneself .and contribute to society. 
When I talk about training workers today for the jobs of tomorrow, when I talk about helping people move from wel­fare rolls to payrolls, and when I talk about rebuilding America, I'm not just talking about eco­
see SPEECH I page 4 



Panel criticizes status of American politics 
By PANCHO LOZANO Dame, began the discussion by News Writer giving an overview of the cur­rent political status in the 
The electoral process, eco­United States. nomic policies and the issue of O'Rourke stated how it has change were the hot topics de­been " a year like no other in bated by a political panel of American politics, with great four Notre Dame professors last change in the air... " He went Friday. on to say how " ... more women 
The professors who partici­have been involved this year in 
pated in the colloquium titled, politics than any other year and 
"The American Political Pro­traditional debates have 
cess: Is This Any Way to Run disappeared with late night talk 
an Election?" sponsored by the shows at center stage." 
College of Business Adminis­Focusing in on the American 
tration's Advisory Council, in­electoral process, Schmuhl said 
cluded Robert Schmuhl, asso­that the presidential candidates 
ciate professor and acting chair have deviated from the actual 
of American studies; Douglas service aspect of the presiden­
Kmiec, professor of law; tial job to personal motives. 
Thomas Morris, professor of "The candidates have gotten 
philosophy; and Barry Keating, away from the main focus 
chair and Jones professor of fi­which is to help people," he 
nance and business economics. said. "It has become a yearn­
James O'Rourke, the panel ing for power and ego." moderator and an associate He added that running forA Business Advisory Council Colloquium on The American Political Process took place on Friday in the CCE. 
professional specialist in busi­Members of the panel are from left, James O'Rourke, Barry Keating, Thomas Morris, Doug Kmiec, and 
ness administration at Notre see PANEU page 6 
Robert Schmuhl. 
~----------c---~--­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A tribute to a great teacher and friend 
I  was  very scared  to  
take college chemistry my  
freshman year.  I aced  
high school chemistry, but  
I was convinced that in  
college the class would be  
much more difficult.  That  
ftrst day of class dispelled  
all my doubts.  Jennifer  
All we did that ftrst day of class was check the't II  Habrych .News Copy Editor  

cIass lis,t but I don reca '-------~-;;---., getting past more than two names before Dr. Mark Bambenek had to stop and tell us all a story. This pattern continued until all 70-plus names were called, and each story produced more laughter than the previous one. He told us many anecdotes, and somewhere in the process we learned a lot about chemistry. I remember distinctly his famous lecture "Hangovers: From Genesis to Exodus." This was ·ust one of several attempts to make us all realize that chemistry applies to all aspects o life. He used to call my lab partner Jane and I the "patience sisters," fully enjoying the irony of the name. Most of the time we were the first people out of the lab thanks to Dr. Bambenek's "help." After one lab he proudly displayed "our" perfectly formed crystals to the entire class, and then let Jane and I turn red with embarrassment by letting the entire class know he had finished the lab since we had wanted to go home. Whenever you entered the Science Building you could almost be assured that the light would be on in his office, and he would be more than willing to help you with any problems. I knew students who would go to him for help, even though they never had him for class, and he was always more than willing to aid them. He was the one professor who let me catch up in all my other classes first, and then helped me along every step of the way after I missed a week of classes due to the chicken pox. This was a class that I recommended to everyone, but next year when I returned Dr. Bambenek was not there. He had been diagnosed with cancer during the summer. In November I saw him on campus and almost didn't recognize him after he had received his chemotherapy treatments. Second semester, his cancer went into remission. He began teaching again and things were just as they had been before. Last year, when I returned for graduation I ran into Dr. Bambenek before the ceremony. We talked briefly, but little did I know that this would be the last time I saw him. Shortly afterwards he suffered a stroke, and last Wednesday Dr. Bambenek died. He is a professor whose memory will always remain with me. He loved teaching and he made learning enjoyable. He took great pride in his students, his profession and in Saint Mary's. He set a standard by which all other professors will be measured. Saint Mary's and the world have lost a great educator and a wonderful man. Good bye and thank you. 
Today's Staff 

News Julie Barrett Pancho Lozano  Production Cynthia Ehrhardt Melissa Cusack  
Sports Jason Kelly  Systems Jon Halloran  
Scoreboard Teds Peterson  Accent Susan Marx  
Viewpoint Jeanne Blasi  Lab Tech Pat McHugh  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer 

COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
H L 1'~'~1 ~ m 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
Government helped bomb James Gang 
• HAGERSTOWN, Md.-A letter long buried in federal archives indicates the U.S. government helped bomb the home of notorious bandit Jesse James, killing his half-brother and maiming his mother, a historian claims. "This is the smoking gun," said Ted Yeatman, who for two decades has studied the James gang, which robbed banks, trains and stagecoaches in the Midwest more than a century ·ago. James was well­known as a criminal, though some saw him as a Robin Hood who robbed unregulated railroads and banks suspected of overcharging common people trying to make a living on the western frontier. 

Slayjngs May Have Links 
• COLUMBUS, Ohio -Three hunters killed in Michigan and Indiana may have been slain by the person believed to be responsible for the deaths of five outdoorsmen in eastern Ohio, authorities say. "Basically, these are homicides of unknown motives," said Dave Hanna, senior supervisor in the FBI's Columbus office. "We are looking at them but are not ready to say they are connected. They fit the general parameters." The fatal shootings under review were in Kalamazoo County in southwestern Michigan in 1990 and Steuben County in northeastern Indiana in 1991. 


OF INTEREST 
•Auditions 
for the senior directing project "Happy Birthday Wanda June" by Kurt Vonnegut will be held at 7 p.m. tonight and tomorrow night in the lab theatre at Washington Hall. No preparation necessary. 

•ND/SMC 
Mock Trial will have an organizational meeting at 7 p.m. tonight in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. Any interested undergraduate should attend the meeting or contact Mike at 283-1862. 

•The 
Student Art Forum's first meeting will be tonight at 7:30 in the Snite Museum. The director of the museum will give a special tour of the sesquicentennial exhibition. Contact Antonia Pancel at 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY•s TRADING September 11 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 237,491,270 -0.37 to 229.75 S&P COMPOSITE 

+2.50 to 419.58 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
+23.77 to 3305.70

UNCHANGED 371 

GOLD 
+$2.80 to $343.60 oz 
SILVER 
+$0.056 to $3.73 oz 
Monday, September 14, 1992 
..·:·::·.·· 
FORECAST 
Partly sunny and warmer Monday with thunderstorms late afternoon. Highs in low 80's. Lows in mid 60's. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  l  
Anchorage  58  47  
Atlanta  80  66  
Bogota  66  39  
Boston  64  51  
Cairo  88  70  
Chicago  80  56  
Cleveland  74  47  
Dallas  89  70  
Detroit  70  50  
Indianapolis  87  65  
Jerusalem  77  69  
London  63  48  
Los Angeles  82  65  
Madrid  90  61  
Minneapolis  78  66  
Moscow  57  52  
Nashville  85  61  
New Vorl<  75  52  
Paris  70  48  
Philadelphia  76  53  
Rome  90  68  
Seattle  63  45  
South Bend  81  64  
Tokyo  81  68  
Washington, D.C.  75  63  



Boy Catches Falling Toddler 
• NEW HAVEN -Javon Saucier was playing football when he made a 30-yard dash to complete the greatest reception of his life: catching a 3-year-old neighbor falling from a window. "I knew I could catch him," 6­year-old Javon said. "People were calling me, 'Javon, the hero."' Brandon Ellison tried to sneak out through his second-floor window, about 15-feet off the ground. Brandon let go, missing a lower window ledge by inches as he fell into Javon's arms. Neither boy was injured. Javon recieved a $10 reward. 



INDIANA 

ISU Student Dies in Accident 
• SPENCER, Ind. -An Indiana State University student on his way home to Solsberry for the weekend was killed when his car left the road and struck a tree, police said. Christopher J. Gater, 19, was pronounced dead at the scene by Owen County coroner Russell Lester. Lester said Gater died of a massive head injury. Both Hobbs and Lester said they believe Gater fell asleep as he was driving. Gater was a freshman at Indiana State in Terre Haute where he was studying electronics technology. 
258-9770 for more information. 
•JPW 
Sophomore Chairperson applications are now available for sophomores interested in getting involved in JPW 1993. Pick up applications at the LaFortune Information Desk and turn them in at the Student Activities Office by 3 p.m. Monday, Sept. 21. Interviews will be scheduled upon submitting the application. 

•Tune 
in at midnight to hear the Nocturne Night­flight on 88.9, WSND-FM. Andy Hughes, Nocturne Director, will be spinning the music tonight on Notre Dame's only stereo outlet for new alternative music. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1812: The Russians set fire to Moscow after an invasion by Napoleon Bonaparte's troops. 

• 
In 1814: Francis Scott Key wrote his famous poem "The Star-Spangled Banner" after witnessing the British bombardment of Fort McHenry in Maryland. 

• 
In 1940: Congress passed the Selective Service Act, providing for the first peacetime draft in U.S. history. 

• 
In 1975: Pope Paul VI declared Mother Elizabeth Ann Bayley Seton the first U.S.-born saint. 

• 
In 1982: Lebanon's president-elect, Bashir Emayel, was 


killed by a bomb that shattered the headquarters of his Lebanese Christian Phalangist Party in east Beirut. 

----------·------~-·--·------------~­
Monday, September 14, 1992 

SMC has computer lab for language teachers 
By LAURA FERGUSEN News Writer 
In an effort to familiarize lan­guage teachers with computer technology, Saint Mary's Col­lege is providing a two day workshop for all Michiana mid­dle school, high school and college level teachers. 
The third annual Foreign Language Pedagogy VVorkshop will be held Sept. 24 and 26 in Regina Hall at Saint Mary's. 
"The purpose of this work­shop is to introduce our tech­nology to other teachers for use in their own schools and for those who have experience, to increase their knowledge and to ultimately stimulate and benefit the students," said Julie Storme, SMC assistant profes­sor of modern languages. 
"It's time to realize that the study of languages needs tech­nology as much as the study of the sciences do," she added. 
During the workshop, the teachers will take advantage of SMC's new language learning center. This facility features 15 networked Macintosh work 
stations, 10 Sony audio stations 
and one interactive video sta­
tion. 

In the first session, partici­pants will learn about the learning center's hardware configurations and demonstrate the faculty-developed customized software including pronunciation and vocabulary drills and dictation, grammar and reading exercises. 
The second session will in­clude hands-on work with the facilities hardware and partici­pants will have the opportunity to create their own software and learn to use the interactive video station. 
In the future, workshop or­ganizers hope that this work­shop will create an exchange between area middle and high schools and Saint Mary's. 
"It has been suggested that a class from Adams High School in South Bend work in the Lan­guage Center," Storme said. "VVe also envision other high school students to come to use our special software, maybe on a one hour per week basis." 
There is no fee for either 
The Observer page3 


Military helps Hurricane lniki victims 
LIHUE, Hawaii (AP) -A mili­equipment Sunday to Kauai, the tary airlift shuttled supplies and hurricane-ravaged "Garden 
Hurricane lniki's 
KAUAI 
I~ 61 
OAHU Ar"" of (\,. MOLOKAI detail ~ ~ MAUl LANAI .}) HAWAII
.r-"

100 miles 
1 

100km lr) 

WEIGHTWATCHERS 
at Work 
1~ week Program on Campus 

For all Employees and Students Discount if Registered By September ISm. 
Call Peggy Peterson 239 .. 5389 




Happy 21st Birthday, Todd "Mayyou 

build a ladder to the stars and climb on every rung. And may you stay Forever young." 
Bob Dylan 

The McNamee Family Dad, Mom, Ryan & Sean 
The Observer/Maureen Long 

Middle east decor 
Shabnam, Tasheem, and Maryam sold Pakistani export items in the ISO lounge. Pakistanians have recently been putting emphasis on the export of handmade items such as jewelry, traditional costumes, and hair 
accessories. 
workshop. It is being funded by Saint Mary's modern lan­guage department and a grant from the Anderson Foundation. 
Island." Residents struggled to piece their paradise back together, while vacationers waited to leave. 
Crews worked round-the­clock to restore power and telephone service wiped out Friday when Hurricane Iniki covered the lush, scenic, 30­mile-wide island with 130 mph sustained wind and gusts to 160 mph. It was the strongest hurricane to hit Hawaii this century. 
"I don't know how we're ever going to get back to normal. I just don't know where to start," said Kathy Cabral of Kalaheo, whose home was extensively damaged. 
"VVe're just glad to be alive today," said Jan Powell of Fairfax, Calif., who was vaca­tioning with her husband in Koloa, on the island's west side, which appeared to be hit hardest. The Powells were staying in an elementary 
school-turned-shelter. "Guess we'll be staying a while," Powell said. 
The hurricane was blamed for at least three deaths, includ­ing one on Oahu, and 98 in­juries. At least 8,000 of Kauai's 51,000 residents were left homeless, said Federal Emer­gency Management Agency spokesman Bob Blair. 
The wind reduced some buildings to splinters and tore 
the upper floors off others. 
KARAOKE Wednesday night at the club! The place to be for the "Class of '93" 9 --2 
must be 21 

ALUMNI
Ill 

SENIOR 




!CLUB 
Club Column 
SEPTEMBER 14, 1992 
1) All Clubs must make an appointment with their division chairs for their first semester meetings. Information pertinent to all clubs will be discussed. Contact your division chair for an appointment time. And remember to check your mailboxes regularly. 
2) Notre Dame Council On International Business Development (Finance Division) meeting Tuesday, Sept. 15 at 8:15p.m. I.S.O. lounge. Questions call Esteban 283-3647 
3) ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club meeting Thursday 9/17 at 8 p.m. at Stepan Center. 
4) Campus Fellowship meeting on Friday 9/18 at 7:30p.m. 
5) Baptist Student Union meets 7 p.m. every Monday at the Center for Social Concerns. Sept. 8 in the Foster Room, 3rd floor Lafortune. 6)Campus Bible Fellowship picnic, Tuesday, 6 p.m. at Campus House, not Saint Mary's. Meeting to follow at 7 p.m. Call Brent 283­3562 or Steve and Charlene 272-8890 for rides. 
7) Spanish Club meeting Tuesday, Sept. 15 at 8 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater 
8) ~tudent Alumni Belatlons .Y,roup meeting Wednesday, 9/16 at 7:00P.M. in Lafortune's Notre Dame Room. 
9) Men's Volleyball tryouts are Wednesday and Thursday. Sept. 16th and 17th from 7 to 10 p.m. in the J.A.C.C. Pit. Questions call Pat 283­2071 or Brian 283-1670. 
10) Notre Dame Soccer Club will be holding Try-outs on Sept. 7, 8, and 10 at 5 p.m. at the fields south of the J.A.C.C.Iot, across Edison Road. Bring a ball if possible. 
11) Psychology Club mandatory meeting Tuesday, 9/15 at 7 p.m. at 117 Haggar. Do not forget your $2.00 dues. 
12) Society for Professional Journalist meeting Wednesday 9/16 at 
7:30 p.m. in Lafortune's Foster Room. Questions, call Margaret at 283-2875 and 283-7569. 
13) Juggler meeting Thursday, 9/17 at 8 p.m. Staff people can pick up packets Wednesday after 5 p.m. 
14) Pre-Professional Society meeting Wednesday, 9/16 in Cushing's Auditorium. 
15) English Majors Society meeting Tuesday, 9/15 at 8 p.m. in Lafortune's Dooley Room. Pizza and pop will be provided. 
16) NO Ski Team/Club mandatory meeting Tuesda,. 9115 at 8 p.m. in 127 Nieuwland. Questions, call Chris 273-2958 or Pete 273-1685. 
All registered clubs may place short announcements of meetings and activities in the CLUB COLUMN. Entries are due in the Club Coordination Council Office by 5 p.m. on Thursday. 
~ -~--~~ ~ ~ --·~·-···----~---··---~--.. -· 
page 4 The Observer 

The Observer/Pat McHugh 

Not long now 
Students wait in line in front of Stepan Center to view Governor Bill Clinton's campaign speech on Friday 

Clinton 
continued from page 1 
America that values families." 
Clinton spoke of a "moral obligation" to provide dignity for families through greater job opportunites and fair wages. "If people work and have children surely we should lift them above the poverty line," he said. 
In reply to recent Republican campaign rhetoric, Clinton said this country does not need a "religious war," instead urging respect for all religions and an individual's right to choose what to believe. 
"I've been appalled to hear the voices of intolerance that have been raised in recent weeks, voices that proclaim that some families aren't real families," Clinton said. 
Right-to-life factions shouted frequently in the crowd, but only disrupted Clinton at the start of the speech, when two students shouted and waved Bush-Quayle placards and a sign reading "Abortion Kills Children-Stand Up For Life." 
Urging civility, he said he hoped that the students would quietly express support for Clinton should his opponents visit, "but I hope you will let them speak." 
Both Clinton and President Bush were invited to speak at Notre Dame by University Pres­ident Father Edward Malloy. The invitation of presidential candidates is a tradition 
U.N. monitors Serbs 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­About 170 tons of supplies goViha (AP) -U.N. peacekeep­were to be transported on 14 ers have begun monitoring the flights a day until Thursday, Serbs' heavy weapons around Keats said. Aid flights to Sara­Sarajevo, U.N. officials said jevo were halted Sept. 3 when Sunday, but the Bosnian gov­an Italian relief plane crashed, ernment reported new shelling killing all four crew. Investiga­on the city's outskirts. tors said it was shot down. 
The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees began an airlift of A day after a deadline for the food from Zagreb, Croatia, Serbs to place the weapons un­where relief flights are coordi­der U.N. surveillance in loca­nated, to the port of Split to tions around the capital and stock supplies for overland two northwestern cities, offi­convoys, U.N. relief spokesman cials said U.N. observers had Michael Keats said. yet to arrive at all the sites. 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Advertising Account Executive 
The position involves daily interaction with clients and consumers incorporating all aspects of advertising and marketing. 
stretching back to 1952 by Fa­ther Theodore Hesburgh, Uni­versity President emeritus. 

Although Bush has not re­sponded to the invitation yet, he spoke at Notre Dame's commencement exercises in ­May. 
Others on the speaker's platform were Clinton's wife Hillary; South Bend Mayor Joe Kernan; Indiana Governor Evan Bayh and wife Susan; Sen. Harris Wofford, D-Penn; Rep. Tim Roemer, D-lnd; and Boston Mayor Ray Flynn. 
Today's the day to quit smoking. 
w 
E 
D E 
L I 
v 
E 



Speech 
continued from page 1 

nomic policy. I'm talking about our moral obligation to help ev­ery one of our sisters and brothers enjoy the dignity of useful and productive work .... 
Throughout this campaign, I've talked about my plan to open the doors of college to ev­ery American. We're going to offer everyone the opportunity to borrow the money to go to college. But we're going to ask everyone to pay it back either as a small percentage of their paychecks after they go to work or even better, by going back home and serving their com-
Monday, September 14, 1992 
munities. 
And, frankly, I'd much rather see everyone -whether they're rich or poor or middle class -pay back that debt by going home and working for two years in a peace corps here in America to rebuild America. 
Just think of it: millions of en­ergetic young men and women, serving their country by teaching the children, or policing the streets, or caring for the sick, or working with the elderly or people with dis­abilities, or building homes for the homeless, or helping chil­dren to stay off drugs and out of gangs, giving us all a sense of new hope and real limitless possibility. 

Make the Grade 
Cliffs StudyWare course reviews are a dynamic new way to study for 
midterms 
• 
and finals. 

• 
Interactive computer software -work at your own pace 

• 
Hundreds of on-screen questions 

• 
Answer explanations 

• 
Glossary, hints, graphs and figures 

• 
Immediate feedback 



lllliU • ~~l~lliS • ~lfiiSIIY • 1~11111~1 • nYSI~S • SIIIISII~S 
[U]}j3~e: 
Notre Dame Bookstore The Hammes Cliffs Notes Representative on Campus 
w 
E 


D E 
L 
I 
v 
E 


R Just Call For Free Delivery R 




Large 15" Pepperoni Pizza 
FRESH! FRESH! FAST! ONLY FAST! HOT! 
HOT!
699 
Please submit a one-page personal statement or resume to Mike Hobbs by Tuesday, Sept 15. Contact Hobbs at 239-6900 for more information. 


Call Now! 

.r--------------------------------------~-----------------------------------~-­
Monday, September 14, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Protesters voice concerns during Clinton speech 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI and PANCHO LOZANO News Writers 
Among the estimated 6,000 people in line to hear Governor Bill Clinton's speech Friday were a scattered number of protesters who vocalized their criticism of the Governor with undying passion. 
In an address to an estimated 2100 students from the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munity at Stepan Center on Friday, Democratic presidential candidate Bill Clinton empha­sized the values of service, community and family amidst opposition from both Right-to­Life advocates and Republicans. 
Prior to the 1 p.m. address, Right-to-Life advocates staged a protest in front of Stepan Center demonstrating against Clinton's pro-choice stand on abortion. 
Throughout Clinton's speech, the protesters disrupted Clin­ton's address with statements such as, "What about the un­born?" and "Pro-life". At the beginning of the speech, Clinton had to stop because two men 

Are You Stressed Out? Do You Need To Relax? 
If so, call Liz at x2184. She'll make you feel good ... 

Catch the Action! 

Notre Dame vs. Michig 
September 19th 
Round trip bus transportation to Spartan Stadium (Buses leave at 9:30 am from CCE) 
Tickets: $15 at the La Fortune Info Desk 
Student tickets to game available through SUB lottery September 15 

Protesters hold up anti-abortion signs at Clinton's speech Friday. 
refused to sit down and chanted incessantly anti-abortion slogans. 
In response to his critics, Clinton commented that, "...it would be nice if our supporters could not only win our cheering contest, but the civility contest also. A 
Right-to-Life supporters, while causing a slight stir inside Stepan Center, may have had more of an impact outside. 
In a pamphlet distributed outside by ND/SMC Right-to­Life, members asked Governor Clinton to open his "heart to the needs of our pre-born brothers and sisters." 
"Part of our goal was to bring awareness to Clinton's position on abortion," said Bill Keen, co­president of ND/SMC Right-to­Life. "We received only positive comments on our protest and thP. professionalism of the pamphlet," according to Keen, in reference to the pamphlet which welcomed Clinton to Notre Dame but asked the Arkansas governor to consider "the cries" of the unborn child. 
In a Right-to-Life press re­lease, the group asked, "What can be worse than a candidate for the President of the United States advocating the "right" to destroy future generations of Americans ... ?" 
In his speech, Clinton coun­tered outspoken anti-abortion protestors by promising an all­out effort to give every Ameri­can child the opportunity to live a healthy life. 
According to Keen, it was im­portant that protestors were present because "had every­body sat down and Clinton spoke with no trouble it would have sent a message. Notre Dame is a Catholic university and Clinton's position is directly 



Minorities given leniency 
WASHINGTON {AP) -The government moves more slowly and imposes lesser penalties against polluters in minority communities, according to a published report Sunday. 
The National Law Journal re­ported that penalties imposed by the Environmental Protec­tion Agency and the speed in which the problems of haz­ardous wastes sites are ad­dressed varied widely, depend-
JFliNAJNCE CILUJB CAREER NIGHT 
Tuesday, September 15th 7 -9 p.m. Monogram Room Joyce A.C. C. 
Representatives From Over 20 Firms Who Recruit For Finance Positions At N.D. 
BUSINESS ATTIRE PLEASE 
Seniors-Bring Resumes Underclass-Never too early to start talking with firms 
at odds with Roman Catholic doctrine." 
Members and supporters of the College Republican Club vo­calized their opposition to Clin­ton during his speech, as well. 
Perry Osborn and Tomas Carrasquillo, both Notre Dame students, were among those Clinton opponents letting their voices be heard. Throughout the speech, they heckled Clinton while waving Bush/Quayle sigl\s and rubber chickens, which symbolized Clinton's failure to answer questions concerning his status in the draft during the Vietnam War. 
"There's not one specific thing, but we're basically anti­Clinton on everything," Car­raquillo said. "We dislike his economic policy...he gave no proposals during this speech, nor said anything original. He's turning tail and running moderate." 
Despite the protests, security problems were at a minimal, with no arrests made, accord­ing to Rex Rakow, director of Security at Notre Dame. "When you plan so much, it's hard for things not to go well," he said. 
A total of 18 security officers from Notre Dame attended the speech, along with county po­lice, U.S. Secret Service agents and Clinton's own security staff. 
According to Rakow. there were no security considerations in choosing Stepan as the lbca­tion of the event. 
Because Stepan is fairly small for such a big event, only Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were allowed to attend the event. The JACC, which holds approximately 11,000, was already scheduled to be used for a women's volleyball game. 
ing on whether the communities involved were white or were inhabited by minorities. 
The publication outlined its findings after examining thou­sands of environmental lawsuits filed by the U.S. government over the last seven years as well as administrative enforcement actions by the EPA and the agency's record in dealing with 1,777 Superfund toxic waste sites. 
page 6 The Observer Monday, September 14, 1992 
"The Republicans were Americans by calling for such tion to debate and to decide who is concerned. viewed as tough and the traditional measures as prayer what we want to be about." "Americans know that



Shields 
Democrats as not tough," in the schools and opposition to He added that Americans America has gone from being 
continued from page 1 
year's election, three of the values that the Republicans de­penQ.ed upon are being chal­lenged. The first of these is strength. 
In the past, the Republicans were viewed as the strong polit­ical party, particularly regard­ing their tough foreign policy and strength in dealing with the Soviet Union. 

Panel 
continued from page 1 
president has become much more complicated than it was before and that "the grueling nature of campaigning has be­come something of an imped­iment to those seeking office." 
Keating said he believed that non-professionals could not succeed on the professional level of politics, evident with the Ross Perot phenomenon. 
"Perot was a political enigma embodied in the public's 'mad as hell' attitude... " he said. "He Shields said. "Now that the Cold War is over, however, what is going to be the new definition of strength? We don't know." 
Traditional values was an­other source of strength for the Republicans. 
In the past, Shields said, the Democrats supported "strange and exotic" groups to build up their platform, therefore alienating traditional Democrats. The Republicans, on the other hand, appealed to the conventional tendencies of 
was impulsive and fundamen­tally shallow in understanding the presidency." 
All four of the participants agreed that the polls are not a valid indication of the status of political candidates. 
"The polls don't mean much," Schmuhl said. "There are a great many undecided plus a largely disenchanted group, of which Clinton becomes the beneficiary." 
Kmiec added that "the parties have lost touch with people and the polls only reflect a surface impression." 
When asked during the dis-
Thailand election shows victory for democracy 
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) -Pro-democracy parties that want the military to stay out of politics appeared headed for a narrow victory inSunday's parliamentary elt:~ctions~ the first since a bloody military crackdown in May.. 
The four parties pledged to form a coalition gov~ ernment if they won the vote, which was seen as a crucial test for a democracy that has weathered military coups and brutal suppressions of popular uprisings. 
Nearly 32 million people were eligible to cast ballots, hut turnout figures were not immediately available. As usual in Thai elections; then~ were reports of vote fraud. 
Official results were ex­pected early Monday. Pro­jections based one.tit polls by Television Channel 9 showed the pro-democracy parties would win 185, or 51 percent, of the 36(} contested parliamentary seats. Television Channel 7 projected that thfl'i parties would win 190 seats. 
The greatest influence on the elections was the so­called "Four Bloody Days" in May, when military forces killed more than 40 pro-demo¢racy demonstrators ·· ··· and wounded hundreds of others in the streets of Bangkok. 
The bloodshed shocked .. Thais, and .further protests'' forced the resignation of Prime Minister Suchinda Kraprayoon, a former army chief appointed despite popular opposition. 
.An interim prime minis~ ter, Anand Panyarachun, a former diplomat and busi­nessman, was named by the constitutional rnonarch, King Bhumibol Adulyadej, and in three months he has taken major steps.to slash the military's power. 
"There are still some fes­tering wounds (in Thai society) so it's our duty to continue healing those wounds," Anand, whose tep:n ended Sunday, said .... after casting his vote. "Your decision today will decide your future,( 
The United States cut off 
some military·· and economic aid to Thailand to protest a February 1991 ¢oup led by Suchinda. Thai military leaders have quoted u~s. officials aft saying Washingtop. would resume aid after Sunday's fllection. 
The election pitied po~ litical parties that supported the demonstrators against those that had hacked Suchinda. 
INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA A Tapestry of Tradition 
"A Day in the Life of an NO/Austrian Student, in lnnsbruck" 
Information Meeting With Professor A. Wimmer 

Monday Evening, September 14 6:00p.m. ETS Theatre C.C.E. Lower Level 
abortion. 
The third source of strength for the Republicans , according to Shields, was their stance on taxes. The Democrats were seen as the "tax and spend party," while the Republicans were viewed as the "borrow and spend party." 
Shields called on voters to challenge the presidential nominees to present a platform of concrete plans for their presidency. "In 1992, we have the opportunity and the obliga­
cussion whether the economy should be put ahead of family values, Keating sided in favor of the economy. 
"The size of the economy is getting bigger, but so is the government," he said. "What is a 1 percent tax cut going to do? It's the size of the government's spending that matters." 
Morris commented that the poverty rate cannot be reduced by giving money away and that "the government is not morally obligated to help the poor, but the moral obligation is attached to the people." 
The issue of necessity for 

have the responsibility to give to the next generation what they have been given by their predecessors. 
"Americans have doubts about Clinton's personal char­acter and about Bush's public character," he said. "All I'm asking is for us to demand [of the candidates] what are the things [they] want to do?" 
Shields said that voters are concerned about the future of their children, especially in ed­ucation, and they want a leader 
change was also addressed by the panel, not only in regard to complex and difficult issues such as healthcare, but also in the way that politics are por­trayed to the public. 
According to Schmuhl, the media has had a corruptive ef­fect on the public, due to such a large media force in the America. 
"Historically it's been differ­ent," he said. "Usually, it was more dynamic, but now that there is such a mass media at work, that's the only way that people get their information. For instance, if the news comes the world's biggest creditor to being the world's biggest debtor," he said. "We want to regain control of our destiny." 
Shields, a 1959 graduate of Notre Dame, is a Washington Post columnist and a member of CNN's "Capital Gang." He is the author of "On the Campaign Trail" and has provided convention and election cover­age for CBS and NBC. He also has appeared on the Phil Don­ahue Show. the Today Show and the MacNiel/ Lehrer Report. 
from negative information, the public's going to have a negative opinion." 
Morris said that the sense of change is necessary due to ig­norance, indifference and in­ertia in the public's attitudes toward politics. 
"Many feel discon­nected...they are ignorant of what needs to be done," he said. "We've lost the culture of conversation... reinvolvement on a everyday basis. It we don't restore the art of conver­sation, we won't know how to form new thoughts in order to change our current attitudes." 

Saddam steps up campaign to win support 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) -In moves opponents say signal growing desperation, Iraqi President Saddam Hussein is trying to woo critics and bully enemies as he struggles with a world embargo and allied mili­tary restrictions. 
A top government official close to Saddam called Sunday for a "national political front" spanning political factions to "confront the imperialist schemes aimed at dividing Iraq and cutting it into pieces." 
The appeal by Sabah Yassin, head of the state-controlled TV and radio organization, appear to be part of a new campaign to court government opponents. 
Iraqi opposition leaders in ex­ile contend it is a sign of weak­ness and desperation as Sad­dam struggles to deal with crippling U.N.-imposed sanc­tions and a new military chal­lenge. 
In a vintage Saddam "carrot­and stick" approach, the gov­ernment has recently doubled rations of some staple foods and made appeals in the media for more democracy and press freedom. 

Saddam has used these tac­tics before when his back was to the wall, promising demo­cratic reforms in his tightly­controlled country. But he has rarely kept his word and it re­mains to be seen whether his strategy will work this time. 
The Tehran-based Supreme Assembly for the Islamic Revo­lution in Iraq contend that Baghdad imposed a food em­bargo below the 32nd parallel, the area which the allies de­clared a "no-fly" zone for the Iraqi air force Aug. 27. 

University of Notre Dame International Study Program at 




Angers, France 
1993 -94 Informational Meeting with Professor Paul McDowell 
Monday, September 14, 1992 7 p.m. Room 114 O'Shaughnessy 
All Are Welcome 
IB~ ~ w©lllUlrm.ft(f;~rr ~JP.>!Oml~(O)rr ifCO>rr CCQ)Im.ifllrrm:m~ft[(Q)Iffi (Q)lr JRCITA~ 
This year. some of your peers, maybe even afriend or someone you lmow from down the hall will want to be Confirmed or to become Ca!hoilic through the RCIA. The way it works is. we all learn together from each other ... you. as a sponsor, would answer questions ( ? ) but you'd probably discover that you had some questions too. \Vhich would be a good thing. 
RCIA: for students who wish to become Catholic Christians Confirmation: for Baptized Catholics who wish to receive the Sacrament of Confmnation 
Sponsor Information Meetings Sunday, September 20, 1992 
4:00 --volunteers for RCIA 
5:00 -volunteers for Confirmation 
Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center 
Kate Barrett. Badin Campus Ministry Office 
For furt.>ter lnformatlon. stop by or call 
239-524.2 

Monday, September 14, 1992 The ObseNer page7 
ELECTION '92 


Clinton called to explain his way out of Vietnam draft 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Dan week "to come clean with the was an intern on the Senate him "for saving me from the ·oined the Naval Reserve-but
{
Quayle fought his Vietnam war American people. I answered Foreign Relations Committee draft," and said the only reason ater acknowledged he was told in 1988. Now it's Bill Clinton's the questions. He's going to when it sought to build a case he had not resisted the draft last March of his uncle's effort. turn. answer the questions -sooner in Congress for ending the was "to maintain my political 
The war divided the country a or later." undeclared war that killed viability within the system." Quayle faced weeks of intense generation ago and it still The vice president no longer 58,000 Americans. questioning and investigative comes back to haunt the baby recites his name, rank and Clinton obtained a deferment Clinton faced a barrage of reporting in 1988 over how lie, boomer politicians who came of serial number in public to to complete his final year as a questions and attacks over his like two-thirds of the men in his age in the 1960s. demonstrate his pride in the Rhodes scholar at Oxford lack of military record last generation, avoided going to 
Quayle, who struggled to Indiana National Guard. But he University by promising to spring. But he weathered that Vietnam. explain in the last campaign insists it set him apart from enroll in ROTC at the University storm and figured the issue was how and why he entered the Clinton, a resolute opponent of of Arkansas law school. behind him. Then the Los "I feel that joining the Indiana National Guard in the Vietnam war. He later dropped those plans Angeles Times reported last National Guard was the correct 1969, has joined the chorus of "I wore the uniform for six and took his chances on the week that Clinton's late uncle thing for me to do. I wanted to Republican critics taunting years and chose to serve my new draft lottery in December worked to find him a spot in go on to law school and at that Clinton about his maneuverings country. Bill Clinton chose not 1969. He got a high number, Arkansas's Naval Reserve. time in 1969, even President around the military that same to," Quayle said last month in 311, and was never called. He Nixon didn't support the war in year. Houston. wrote the head of ROTC at the Clinton at first said he knew Vietnam," the vice president 
Quayle challenged Clinton this Clinton, as a college student, University of Arkansas thanking nothing about it -and never said Friday. 
Quayle supports law that restricts abortion 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Vice the Republican Party platform director George President Dan Quayle on drawn up in Houston last Stephanopoulos. Sunday hedged his support for month, which calls for a Speaking with reporters in an immediate constitutional constitutional amendment to Little Rock, Ark., ban on abortions, saying a make abortion illegal in all Stephanopoulos said that the Pennsylvania law that restricts cases. But he skirted several GOP ticket appeared to be 
new eco ... plan more but does not ban abortions was questions on his personal views trying to back away from the the "sames old leftovers" "a good starting point." on banning abortion. GOP platform. 
Sunday as he urged college The Pennsylvania law, which The question, he said, should "But the faets are, the students to bring their energy comes in requires parental consent for be "how are we going to handle platform speaks for itself. It to the Dem.ocratic ticket's country, it is 
minors and a 24-hour waiting this situation, how are we going calls for a constitutional promise of change. Often young people who 
period after counseling, "is a to handle the tragedy of amendment to ban abortions. Gore campaigned in Mis~ recognize the extent of the 
very logical approach to deal abortion, how are we going to There are no exceptions and with a very sensitive, divisive handle the situation where we Republicans will have to livesouri two days after Bush r~(lnge .})ef~re others tr:tto are. 
issue," Quayle said on ABC's have more abortions in with the consequences of the
visited to announce plans to perhaps wol'~:J used ~~>things sell F-15 fighters to Saudi as they used to be, more set in 
"This Week With David Washington D.C. than live action." Arabia, a sale that would save their ways and more reluctant 
Brinkley." births." Last week, in a Los Ang~les about 7,000 jobs in the state. to make the adjustments that 
The vice president's remarks He added: "The way to handle television interview, Quayle were the latest in a series of it is the way Pennsylvania played down the party platform
The Democratic vice .aJ;e.. necessary,"· Gore. p()intedly presidential nominee tried to tpld about 3,000 people at an 
comments that seemed to handled it ... the Pennsylvania and spoke instead of wanting to persuade voters to base their afternoonrally. . 
retreat from the Republican law is a good starting point." see Roe vs. Wade overturned so November verdict the 
Party's traditional family values The Supreme Court upheld states could set their own rules. stance highlighted at their the Pennsylvania law last June convention last month in in a ruling that kept intact the On Sunday, the vice president Houston, as polls continue to 1973 Roe vs. Wade decision noted that "there are a number 
future. show many Americans don't legalizing abortion while of human life amendments that favor such conservative views granting broader powers to are pending on Capitol Hill. We or don't believe they belong in states to enact new restrictions. will support a human life 
a younger presidential politics. "It seems to be a flip flop," amendment, we do not say Quayle also said he backed said Clinton communications which human life amendment." 

Reagan joins with Bush to rally supporters 
LENDER (ODE: 817846 
Choose River Forest Bank for your Stafford, PLUS, SLS 
or Consolidation Loans and earn a rebate up to $2,000! 
TOTAL LOAN CASH TOTAL LOAN CASH AMOUNT' REBATE AMOUNT' REBATE 
Under $4,000 $10 $20,000-$24,999 $500 $4,000-$5,999 $25 $25,000-$29,999 $675 $6,000-$7,499 $50 $30,000-$34,999 $850 $7,500-$9,999 $100 $35,000-$44,999 $1,100 $10,000-$12,499 $200 $45,000-$54,999 $1,400 $12,500-$14,999 $275 $55,000-$64,999 $1,700 $15,000-$17,499 $350 $65,000 and above $2,000 $17,500-$19,999 $425 
•ca~h rebate~ ar~ pa1d after graduation and after 5 full on-time repayments are made Rebates are based on princ1paf bdlance ouhtand1ng at graduat1on of all loam obtained from or consolidated with River Fore~t Bank after August 1, 1992. Undergraduate borrowers ~y defer rebates unld their entire education is completed Offer available at qualified schools only. Please refer to redemption certificate for complete terms and condition~. 
RIVER FOREST BANK NEVER SELLS ITS STUDENT LOANS! 
To qualify for River Forest Bank's CASH BACK TO GRADUATES program, talk with your school's Financial Aid Adviser, call us toll-free 1-800-345-4325, or mail this form to the address provided below. 
r---------------------------------------------------------------, 
/ YES, I want to qualify for a cash rebate on student loans' / : Please send me an apphcation for: : 
1 D Stafford Loans D Supplemental Loan to Students / 
I D Parent loan for D Cash Back Comoltdation Loan : : Undergraduate Students J I I I I 
: NAME TElf PHO-NE : I 0 
: sTREETADDRESS : 
I I I I 
: CiTY/STATE/ZIP : 
I I I I 
~ SCHOOl ACADEMIC lEVEl l 
~---------------------------------------------------------------J 
River Forest Bank 
Student Loan Prooessing Center 
P.O. Box 25586. Chicago. IL 60625-9998 
Member. FDIC. Equal OppoMuru~.v I.ender 

~----------------------------------------------------------­
Happy 20!11 Birthday Megan Heyward! 
Hope all your dreams come true this year! Love, Mel 

ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) ­Ronald Reagan joined forces Sunday with President Bush to try to deflate Bill Clinton's sup­port in California. They sug­gested the Democrat was a small-state governor like Jimmy Carter whose election would be like "picking up the lemon you sold 12 years before." 
Reagan and Bush tore into Clinton at an outdoor rally before a crowd of thousands in conservative Orange County. "America's greatest hope is with George Bush," Reagan told the audience, which cheered louder for him than for Bush. 
Several dozen noisy Clinton backers held up signs for their candidate, booed and shouted back and forth with Bush's supporters. 

Seeking a come-from-behind victory for the nation's biggest electoral prize, Bush stopped first at a $2,500-a-person GOP fund-raising brunch at the sprawling estate of entertainer Bob Hope. It was a private affair but Bush was overheard telling the guests, ''I'm not discouraged" by polls that consistently show Clinton ahead. 
Later, at the Yorba Regional Park on a sunny day, both Reagan and Bush eompared Clinton to Carter, the former Georgia governor who was defeated for a second White House term by Reagan in 1980. 





Business 
page 8 
Monday, September 14, 1992 

Festival exposes natural products to consumers 
BALTIMORE (AP) -Paul Katzeff doesn't claim that coffee is good for you, but he does tell his customers that the grinds he sells don't harm the environment or oppress peasant farmers in Central America. 
The organic coffee merchant was one of nearly 7,000 manu­facturers and suppliers on hand at a trade show dedicated to products that are kind to your body or the planet. 
Another company peddled soap made with olive oil, the way it was made in the good old days. Non-dairy cheeses, non-fat hot dogs and enviro nmen tally-correct detergent also were on display at the Natural Products Expo 
East,  which  ran  through  
Sunday.  
The  motto  of  Katzeff's  

Thanksgiving Coffee Co., ac­cording to a brochure printed on recycled paper, is "Not just a cup ... But a just cup." 
"The problem is not that here in the U.S. you've got pes­ticide residue in the cup, but that pesticide residue and runoff is hurting the grower's families," Katzeff said Friday, standing next to urns of java served with sugar from organi­cally grown cane. 
Katzeff's Harvest Coffees are bought directly from certified organic growers in Peru, Guatemala and Mexico, elimi­
nating brokers. Fifteen cents 
from the sale of each 14-ounce 
package is sent back to 
agricultural cooperatives, he 
said. 

Each package retails for be­
tween $7.50 and $8.50, he 
said. 

Most of the growers are too poor to afford the pesticides and fertilizers used by larger corporate farms in Brazil and Colombia, but that's not the point, said Tom Hardman, an­other organic coffee importer. 
"It has more to do with pro­moting sustained agricultural and social issues," said Hard­man, who runs the Caracol Co. outside Philadelphia. 
While the importance of or­ganic coffee may seem trivial to some, coffee beans are one of the largest commodities in the world, Hardman said. 
About 12 trillion pounds of coffee were sold in the 1989­90 crop year. In 1989, 52.2 percent of people in a worldwide study drank an average of 3.34 cups a day, according to a study by the International Coffee Or­ganization. 
Ellen Weiser, a trade show participant representing Ecover, was hawking the Bel­gian company's line of deter­gents and soaps. The products are made without phosphates, brighteners, chlorine bleaches or other additives that can harm the environment. 


Quayle pledges Bush vetoes 
President will axe spending 'one penny above request' 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush, primed for a show­down with Congress over spending, will veto any con­gressional appropriation "that goes one penny above his re­quest," Vice President Dan Quayle said Sunday. 
"If Congress doesn't think he's going to veto it, go ahead, George Mitchell, send these bills down there above the president's budget, and we'll veto them," Quayle said on ABC's "This Week With David Brinkley." 
Mitchell, the Senate Majority Leader, earlier on NBC's "Meet the Press" accused Bush of "inconsistency." 
"Here's the President going around the country doling out a billion here, a billion there, a billion there," the Maine 


Bush tax stance threatens IRA expansion 
George Mitchell 

Democrat said. "Meantime back in the Capitol, the House of Representatives has appro­priated $13 billion less than the president has requested and now we see in the front page of the paper that the president is talking about some way to rein in spending." 
Bush, in his acceptance 
speech at the Republican Na­tional Convention in Houston last month, warned that he would veto any spending bill that exceeded his requests. 
The Washington Post re­ported Sunday that the Bush administration has targeted seven of 13 appropriations bills for vetoes, creating a possibility of fiscal chaos if no budget is passed when the federal spend­ing year begins on Oct. 1. 
Before the Republican con­vention Bush signed one ap­propriations bill -for agricul­ture -although it exceeded his request. Twelve more remain to be decided, with congressional versions topping Bush's proposals by $1.7 billion for In­terior, more than $300 million for Transportation and about $400 million for Treasury. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush's insistence that he is against raising taxes apparently has doomed a bill to expand tax-deductible Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs). 
Liberalizing IRAs, at a five­year cost estimated at $7.8 bil­lion, is the most expensive part of a $32.5-billion tax bill pend­ing in Congress that would be paid for by tax increases. 
Congressional leaders are negotiating to salvage the bill, or parts of it, including provi­sions to encourage investment in blighted cities and to renew a dozen individual and business tax breaks that expired June 

30. But even the parts favored by Bush are in jeopardy be­cause they, too, would be fi­nanced by tax increases. 
With the Senate scheduled to resume action on the measure this week, leaders say they have no idea whether any tax bill will become law this year. The only alternative way to finance the new tax breaks is a series of spending cuts in benefit programs such as Medicare, an unpalatable option a few weeks before an election. 
"I just don't have a sense of what's going to happen," said Sen. Bob Packwood of Oregon, senior Republican on the Senate Finance Committee. Although there are good things in the bill, he added, "I think it's safe to conclude it's not at the top of anybody's priority list." 
Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, who chairs the Finance Com­mittee, said, "I'm still optimistic that we can pass it with the president's support." 
In Its Sesquicentennial Year, The University of Notre Dame and Pax Christi U.S.A. Announce the Presentation of the 1992 Pax Christi U.S.A. Book Award to James Douglass author of The Non-Violent Coming of God (Orbis Books) Monday, September 14th Room 100 Center for Continuing Education 5:00 p.m.  

I, I 




Viewpoint 
Monday, September 14, 1992 page 9 
The Observer 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant 
Managing Editor John Rock 

News Editor ...................... David Kinney VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Accent Editor •........... Jahnelle Harrigan Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp Saint Mary's Edltor ...Anna Marie Tabor 
Business Manager Richard Riley 

Advertising Manager ••.•.•..Mike Hobbes Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Production Manager •.•.•...•Jeanne Blasi Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth OTS Director .............••...... Dan Shinnick Controller ........................ David Beliveau 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions 
on campus through letters is encouraged. 

'Character' at ND debatable 
It would be helpful if those who are concerned about pre­serving the Catholic character of Notre Dame would read "The Decline and Fall of the Chris­tian College," by Fr. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., in the April and May i 991 issues of First Things magazine. 
The secularization of the lib­eral Protestant universities in the period,1870-1910, Fr. Burtchaell notes, "consisted of gradual modifications called for by professing Christians." 
For example, when President James Kirkland set about to improve the Vanderbilt pro­gram, he saw the Southern Methodist Church as "a hin­drance, not a help," in the pur­suit of his academic goals. 
He worked to transfer control from the Methodist bishops to a lay board. "His intention was that (Vanderbilt) be laicized," comments Burtchaell, "but it was secularized as well ... (I)t was no longer Christian or religious." 
Burtchaell notes that, at Van­derbilt and elsewhere, "the es­trangement from sponsoring church occurred at a time when the funding the church may have provided was clearly inadequate for the new aca­demic ambitions of the univer­sity, and when new, secular sources were offering an infu­sion of funds." 
The desire to be free of the church "was usually motivated by the belief that the Christian context and spiritual nourishment. ..would continue after the removal of any au-
Charles E. Rice Right or Wrong? 

thoritative link with the church. 
The widely shared church membership and piety of the campus population led them to suppose that the inertial force of faith is such that it would carry them along after their relationship to the church be­came informal and inexplicit rather than legal." Unfortu­nately, the secular tendencies prevailed. 
Beginning in 1967, the lead­ing American Catholic universi­ties, including Notre Dame, severed their juridical connec­tion with the Church and be­came autonomous institutions. 
Fr. Burtchaell, to the contrary, maintains that "The only plau­sible way for a college or uni­versity to be significantly Christian is for it to function as a congregation in active com­munion within a church. " He suggests that "secularization is rapidly bleaching the Catholic character out of that church's universities and colleges, with all the elements we saw typified in the Vanderbilt story." 
Once autonomy is declared, the secularization process is gradual and, regrettably, familiar: "(A)s a century earlier (with the Protestant universities), the Catholic institutions enjoyed an immediate honeymoon period wherein autonomy actually en­hanced the institution as both a faith community and a house of liberal learning. 
But then the slow and inexorable gravity pull of the secularism dominant in the force-field of the academy begins to retard and then counteract the inertial momen­tum that has hitherto' set the course of the Catholic college or university, until, after a period when the forms and symbols of Christian identity are gradually evacuated of their conviction, the institution finally emerges as a wraith of the Christian community it once was." 
The twelve Fellows, six of whom must be Holy Cross priests, control Notre Dame in fact. Yet the Congregation of Holy Cross has no formal re­sponsibility for the University. 
The divorce of de facto power from responsibility violates elementary leadership princi­ples. And it never works in the long run. The Burtchaell article fairly raises the issue of whether it would promote the Catholic character of Notre Dame for the Congregation of Holy Cross to resume formal, juridical responsibility for the University. 
That article evidences courage as well as perception. Its author has earned the appreciation of all who value the cause of integrity in education. His analysis merits full and open debate within the Notre Dame community. 
Charles E. Rice is a professor in the Notre Dame Law School. His column appears every other Monday. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The Blessed Mother's message should be heard 
Dear Editor: 
The cruelties that are hap­pening daily in former Yu­goslavia encourage us to direct this appeal to all the faithful in the Church, so that more than ever we become aware of the importance of the messages of Medjugorje. 
In this unknown country of Hercegovina, people have been praying and fasting for eleven years for peace, reconciliation and forgiveness; a forgiveness that became tangible among all the inhabitants of Medjugorje and that was also experienced by 30 million pilgrims there. 
The war that has been raging for a year in this area shows us more deeply how very much we share responsibility for these horrible events when we take these messages with too little seriousness or even reject them. 
If one had thought before that Medjugorje could develop like any other shrine, he or she now becomes aware very quickly that the invitation to prayer really was intensely acute and, in the first place, concerned exactly this region that used to appear outwardly calm and peaceful. 
But today in Mostar as well as in the surrounding villages, thousands of people who have heard this message of forgive­ness and reconciliation have been met with pain and sorrow, because family members were cruelly slaughtered before their eyes. 
Many Croatian soldiers report about their frequent prayers of the Rosary while under heavy fire in the trenches at the front. 
Who can now help these per­sons to grasp new hope again to begin a new life, while forgiving their attackers and perse­cutors? 
Precisely, this forgiveness, however, is the basis and content of the messag-es of Medjugorje which, slowed by authority and reluctance, .have penetrated into the hearts of the people of this region torn by suffering and into the hearts of numerous pilgrims from all the world. 
No one ought, especially now, to take away this invitation and this help that was communicated through the messages. 
For us to withhold this help from them would make us share responsibility for the cruelties that are still occurring through the typically human craving for revenge and through the understandable want to bring about justice by taking things into their own hands. 
The Holy Father, John Paul II, said we can resolve this conflict with spiritual weapons. The Blessed Mother has been offering them to us for eleven years. 
Cardinal Kuharic, Primate of the Croatian church, was asked bout this by the head of Gebet­saktion-Vienna and stressed" "People who believe are con­vinced in conscience that with these messages they can stimu­late people to the good -to con­version, to peace -they should do it! This is a matter of con­science!" 
Paul Marla Hnilica, S.J. Rome 
Aug.23,1992 

DOONESBURY 
GOOD 60!/... WHO's 
OH,NO...

THAT? 
IT's TH/3\ CIJMM/55/0N/!ROF COMICS! 
\ 

CH/3CK/NG US FOR. FAMil-Y 
VAWt'3,t..o fXI(}BT. IU 
eerwe'l</!3ABOU770 

LIJSI3aJR. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
YeAH,a;eu, QUICK/
APPAR£NT/..Y 
(j()Gf?T 

U/HAT'S­'Change starts when someone HER.-FAC/3! 
I sees the next step.' 
William Drayton 

Thought starts when you submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
~~----------­


Viewpoint·

page 10 Monday, September 14, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Candidates should dodge the draft issue 
tried repeatedly to stir up patri­was in the late '60's and early his actions, as Vietnam was a otic sentiment against the '70's. If your country asked you debacle. He should know-he Democratic nominee. They tell to take a long walk off a short was in charge. us that he didn't answer the call pier would you oblige? Retired Army Colonel David of his country; he took the easy Probably not. H. Hackworth, the most way out. Clinton's military supporters decorated American soldier 
But not always does our are no slouches. Robert Mc­alive, said that if his son had country have its collective head Namara, former secretary of been of drafting age, he would on straight. Objectives get defense under Kennedy and have taken him to Canada. blurred. Leadership is Johnson, came out and said that Hackworth also defended sometimes weak, divided, as it Clinton shouldn't be blamed for Clinton. 
lashed Clinton for enlisting in 
But, one might ask, why ROTC, thus negating his eligi­should Clinton get a reprieve bility for the draft. This bothers when my ,cousin/uncle/father voters. (fill in the blank) served his 
Bush and his personal country? paperweight Dan Quayle earlier The position of those who did this week brought up the draft serve can be defended as issue again, trying to make it strongly as those who did not. one of the major issues of the Anyone who served in Vietnam campaign. It shouldn't be. deserves special respect and 
Clinton shOuld not be faulted admiration. To serve one's for avoiding the draft. To be country is never dishonorable. sure, Vietnam was a national But sometimes, so is not serv­tragedy. But in no way did it ing. resemble the global crisis of Brian M. Posnanski World War II, a war iii which St. Edward's Hall 
Sept. 10, 1992 

ND based on taught beliefs 
Dear Editor: 
Since the end of the primaries in the spring, the political war between George Bush and Bill Clinton has persistently struck on the same issues: the economy, abortion, foreign pol­icy, and the character issue. The last one bears some weight, especially with reference to Bill Clinton's avoidance of the draft. 
Republicans have repeatedly fought heroically in the Pacific. 
The powers of the Axis threat­ened the whole world. Viet­nam-which officially was a po­lice action, not a war-was waged for political reasons. You can easily defend U.S. in­tervention in World War II. You cannot defend our actions in Vietnam. 
Bush and his cronies have 
the young aviator George Bush 
Charges of Catholic thought control are ' patently absurd' 

Dear Editor: 
This letter is in response to the outrageous column by Kurt Mills. 
The fact that the University is straying from its Catholic char­a~ter is very much the case. The fact that most other col­leges are less Catholic is of no importance. 
The student population is quite diverse and has many dif­fering beliefs. The charge that truths put forth by the Univer­sity are accepted with little question is false. 
Furthermore, in no way is re­ligion fundamentally at odds with real academic freedom. Many theology teachers argue against the church with im­punity. The charge that they are "censured, silenced, or fired" is hardly a fact. 
A theology teacher arguing against the basic tenets of the Catholic faith is like a Genetics teacher arguing against the ex­istence of DNA or a Cell Biology teacher arguing against the ex­istence of lipids in cell mem­branes. Both the Genetics and Cell Biology teacher would be unquestionably fired, so why not the theology teacher? 
The argument about the Uni­versity not being exempt from laws regarding discrimination seems to imolv that the Uni­versity is guilty of discrimina­tion. 
To make such an implication is patently absurd. The Uni­versity bends over backwards trying to serve the interests of minority groups and be as fair as possible to everyone. 
I would not deny that there is a separation between church and state. However, Catholics pay taxes too so why should they be excluded from benefits of government money? 
Of course religious educa­tional institutions have a right to exist and they have a right to government funding just as much as the next university. 
The charge that by teaching the truth to its students, that truth somehow causes individ­uals to not accept others who are different is again absurd, and I would argue the opposite. 
The Catholic teaching tells one to be accepting of others and that everyone is deserving of understanding. The Univer­sity does allow the full range of human interactions, and it does produce many people who are suited to the real world and change it for the better, regard­less of what Kurt Mills may claim. 
Daniel Hoffman Dillon Hall 
9,1992 
Dear Editor, 
The recent article by Kurt Mills, attacking what he per­ceives to be a University-im­posed "truth," strays from truth in the broadest sense of the word. 
His views on what constitutes a Catholic University are simplistic and sophomoric. Additionally, his accusations of institutional discrimination are irresponsible. And finally, his invocation of "separation of Church and state" evidences a rather unsophisticated under­standing of the Constitution. 
First, Mills' claim that clergy in the hierarchy and crucifixes in the classrooms are evidence of the University's Catholic character is reductionist and wrong. 
It is insulting to Catholics and Christians alike to reduce their beliefs to clerics and mass­produced crosses. The Catholic character of the University is based on values, beliefs, teachings, and discourse. 
Mills' diatribe is reminiscent of the "know-nothings" who rallied against the "Papists," and is prejudicial on its own. Notre Dame has shown that a Catholic university is able to protect academic freedom by taking stands, encouraging debate, and hosting speakers, faculty members, and students who are at odds with the Vatican. 

Second, Mills risks overusing and trivializing the term when he accuses the University of discrimination carte blanche. 
There is no question that ho­mophobia and prejudice exist here, and that education is still necessary, but Mills' argument is ill-served by implying that Notre Dame operates beyond the pale of the law and hides behind the tag of "private uni­versity" while engaging in wholesale illegal activity. 
Moreover, he implicitly and wrongly ties this "discrimination" to a complete lack of tolerance and debate on campus, ignoring the differing opinions voiced at Notre Dame on homosexuality and its rela­tionship to Catholic teachings. 
Discrimination of the ilk alluded to by Mr. Mills would be present at Notre Dame if homo­sexuals were barred from the faculty and student body. Thankfully, the University does not engage in such behavior. 
Finally, Mills' assertion that separation of church and state precludes financial support of Notre Dame students by the federal government is absurd. 
If anything, the required theology course he cites is evidence of a broader education, creating a deeper search for "truth." It does not force a student to adopt or accept tenets of faith unquestioningly. 
Mr. Mills apparently has his own "truth," one that is at odds with that which he perceives to be espoused by Notre Dame. 
He seemingly favors a completely secular education and a narrow "truth" that is found at the University of Wis­consin, Ohio State, or similar state universities that ignore facets of personal development and in their own ways chill de­bate and censure dissent. 
Tim Schorn Graduate Student Sept. 9, 1992 

Family values start at~home, not Capitol Hill 
Dear Editor, 
It is probably the most well­known ideological fact in the academic world that Notre Dame is the epitome of conser­vatism in universities. But does being morally conservative warrant alignment with the po­litical right? 
It shouldn't, especially not at Notre Dame. Contrary to popu­lar belief (at least belief that is popular in this Catholic com­munity), our philosophical views should not make us all proud members of the GOP. 
In fact, if you are all as Catholic as you proclaim you are, as members of this fine religious institution, you should revolt against your right-wing vanguard. You should reject their candy-coated version of "family values" for the sake of justice in this world. 
Why, you may wonder, should you make such a radical shift in political position? The answer lies at the very heart of "The Mission Statement of the University of Notre Dame," published only days ago. 

Here at Notre Dame, students are instilled (supposedly) with "a disciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice, and oppres­sion that burden the lives of so many of their fellow human beings." 
For some reason, this does not strike me as being on George Bush's campaign plat­form. In fact, people that really think this way are George's worst nightmare. While the White House struggles to pro­tect the elite few from the re­cession they may have created, the middle and lower classes are suffering the consequences. 
We, as Catholics, are sup­posed to be dedicated to service and sacrifice to benefit our fel­low human beings, especially those less fortunate than our­selves. These are the goals of those you call liberal, however naive they may seem. 
Everyone knows life isn't fair, but we need to do everything possible to make it a little more so than it is. This is the mission the Lord Himself has given us. 
I'm sorry for those of you Re­publicans who are afraid of what a Democratic tax plan will do to you. Perhaps you can save money by not attending one of the finest institutions in the world. 
Or better yet, stop giving money to the collection at church. Why not? I mean, you're only willing to give so much to the poor, right? 
And please don't turn this into an election about the abortion issue or good old family values. These are issues that Catholics are raised to deal with on our own; we have minds to think with and churches to help us past dilemmas. 
Family values start at home, not at Capitol Hill. This is an election about our future. Let us leave our children a planet they can live on and people they can live with as equals. 
Chip Highsmith Sept. 13, 1992 



Accent 
Monday, September 14, 1992 page 11 
I I
"There are people still m1ss1ng '' 
World War II POW recalls imprisonment on Baltic Sea 
By CHRIS HATTY 
Accent Writer  
Charles McCollester fought in  
World War II and was a POW.  
McCollester was shot down  
over Denmark in February of  
1944. He and eight other  
members of a bomber crew  
were taken prisoner by the  
Germans and spent 15 months  
in a prison camp on the Baltic  
sea. By the end of the war that  
particular POW camp held  
15,000 prisoners, said Mc­ 
Collester.  
The people at that camp sur­ 
vived on Red Cross food parcels  
from the United States and  
Canada. The Germans did pro­ 
vide some food, though. It was  
a type of bread called ·  
kriegbrot, which, "would weigh  
six pounds and be the same  
size as our one pound loaf,"  
stated McCollester.  
In January of 1945 the Allies  
had cut off the supply lines to  
Germany, and thus for the last  
five months of the war, the pris­ 
oners had to subsist mostly on  
this kriegbrot. "So we were all  
pretty hungry," McCollester  
says.  
The people at his camp were  
not treated badly. The  
Germans, for the most part,  
adhered to the Geneva  
convention in dealing with their  
prisoners. "The only time we  
saw the nasty side of the  
Germans was at the time of the  
Battle of the Bulge in December  
of 1944," and then it was more  
verbal abuse than physical,  
said McCollester. "They got  
pretty cocky, so you could see  
what they were like when they  
were winning the war."  
There were, however, slave  
The Observer/John Binghamlabor camps. People were  
The black POW/MIA flag is presented during a moment of silence before the Notre Dame vs Michigan game last Saturday. The moment of brought back from various Eu­ 
ropean countries and forced to silence kicked off ROTC's POW/MIA Awareness Week.  
work in German factories.  
"Those people were terribly  
treated, " McCollester said. He  
compared these camps to con­ 
centration camps. NO ROTC holds Awareness Week  
The living arrangements in  
the camp where McCollester  
was held were extremely  
crowded. There were four  
prison compounds in this in remembrance of POW/M/As 
particular camp. The one in  
which he lived was a converted  
barracks. The rooms were  
made for about eight people,  
but "at one time about 24" people lived there, related Mc­Collester. "The beds were laid one against the other," he said and the prisoners slept on straw mattresses and used stripped barbed wire for springs. When asked what he thought of the POW/MIA Awareness week, McCollester expressed that he is, "grateful to Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC for re­membering the POW's and MIA's every year." He asks that we keep writing to Congress and to the President, to have them investigate the matter further, to see if "there are any who want to come home," as well as, "to return the remains of those who have been confined in a foreign country." What McCollester most wants is for people to know, to be aware that the POW/MIA situation is not just an issue in the movies or from a distant past.  By CHRIS HATTY Accent Writer Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC) has marked this week as POW/MIA Awareness week, according to Celia Schmalbach, a Notre Dame se­nior and head of the Arnold Air Society. The week's events are in­tended to inform the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community that "the POW/MIA issue is still well alive," said Schrnalbach, a member of Air Force ROTC who is helping to organize the week. Beginning at the Notre Dame v. Michigan football game on Saturday, during the flag cere­mony, a black flag was raised and a moment of silence ensued in honor of POW/MIA's. On Sun­day, petitions were offered, praying for POW/MIA's, as well as for their loved ones. A less direct reminder is the rock in front of the Air Force  detachment block in Pasquerilla Center, which has been painted black and now has a POW/MIA symbol upon it. There is also a display inside the detachment, consisting of POW bracelets, some flags, as well as informa­tion regarding the POW/MIA's. "We forget that there are people from past years who are still missing and their families are still grieving." -Celia Schmalbach The display in the ROTC building will hopefully help in­crease the student's and faculty's awareness of these people, said Schmalbach. It will show bracelets from the returned POW's of Desert Storm and then indicate that for each of these there are many more who never returned from other  wars. "I think it's great that people were so supportive of the war in the Middle East," Schmalbach says, "but we can't forget those who fought in Vietnam or World War II." There will also be a reception on Friday in honor of POW/MIA week. Approximately 70 former POW's from the nearby area have been invited. At 4 p.m. that afternoon there will be a ceremony at the South Quad flagpole. A POW/MIA flag will be raised along with the United States colors. After the ceremony, Kent Laudeman, a professor at Indi­ana University of South Bend and a reserve Army officer will give a 15 minute address. His speech will detail the current state of the POW/MIA issue. At the conclusion of the speech, the POW/MIA flag will be lowered, and "Taps" will be  played. On Friday, the ROTC students will be wearing their uniforms all day. "This is to increase the awareness, because when peo­ple look around and see all of our students in uniform, they wonder what's going on. That will be another way to convey the message to them," said Schmalbach. This week is important "because we live so much in the present and are so concerned with our own problems and with society that we forget that there are people from past years who are still missing, and their families are still grieving," stated Schmalbach. "We can't forget those who have gone before us and put their life on the line," said Schmalbach. " Our main purpose is to make people aware, and if all they do is read this article, they'll know that the issue is not dead."  -,.  

r 
page 12 The Observer Monday, September 14, 1992 
Chavez hammers Camacho 
LAS VEGAS (AP) _.;. Julio Cesar Chavez, at his best in big fights, may never have been better in his biggest fight ever. 
One look at Hector Camacho's beaten and battered face could attest to that. 
"The pressure he put on me was amazing," Camacho said after losing a lopsided decision Saturday night to the WBC super lightweight champion. "I couldn'fkeep him off of me." 
With the pride of a nation riding on his shoulders, Chavez put on a devastating performance that upped his spectacular record to 82-0 and kept him undefeated in 23 title fights. 
More importantly, it cemented his stature as Mexico's most popular athlete and perhaps as the greatest boxer ofthe last decade. 
"I couldn't afford to let the Mexican people down," Chavez said. 
Let them down he didn't, taking command almost from the opening bell before the largely Mexican crowd of 19,100 packed into the UNLV campus arena. 
Chavez drilled right hands with uncanny accuracy off the face of the Puerto Rican challenger all night, cutting Camacho over the right eye and completely closing his left eye by the late rounds. · 
The only thing he couldn't do was knock Camacho down. but the dominance was so complete that one ringside judge gave Chavez all 12 rounds and another gave him all but one round. 

"tdon't think Hector Camacho wants a rematch," Chavez said while drinking a beer after the fight. 
Chavez earned his biggest payday ever, a cool $3 million, and picked up another $100,000 in a side bet he had made with Camacho before the fight. Promoter Don King had also promised to toss in a Lamborghini sports car for a win. 
It was the seventh defense for Chavez of his 140-pound crown, who previously held titles at 130 and 135 pounds. 
"Naturally I'm 140 pounds now, H Chavez said through an interpreter. "I plan to make two more title defenses and then go after the weltereweight title." 
One of those title defenses may be against Greg Haugen, who has held both lightweight and super lightweight titles and was in the audience to watch his possible future rival. Another possibility is Pernell Whitaker, who holds another piece of the 140-pound crown. 
"If Don King wants me to fight Whitaker, I'd gladly fight him," Chavez said. 
Camacho, who like Chavez earned $3 million, wasn't aboQt to call it quits despite the beating he took from the champion. 
"I'll carry on," Camacho said. 'Tll fight the best. I don't feel discouraged at all." 
Camacho, who lost for the second time against 41 wins, had infuriated the crowd by preening into the ring two hours before the fight clad in only a g-string and cape in the symbol of a Puerto Rican flag. 
Saint Mary's volleyball defeats Bethel College 
BY EILEEN MCGUIRE 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's volleyball team ( 4-2) traveled to Bethel College Thursday, defeating the Pilots in four games 15-7, 10­15, 15-10, 15-2. 
Working out the kinks was the Belles first priority. 
"I believed we had trouble with spatial orientation as well as the environment," explained coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. "They had a great cheering section and we just didn't look comfortable," she continued. 
The Belles ultimately realized what they needed to· accomplish in order to come out with a win. They regained their confidence and played intelligently to hold Bethel to two points in the final game. 
"We played very slowly at first," stated senior captain Karen Lorton. "But after three games we were able to pick up on their tips." 
Schroeder-Biek agreed. 

"We started talking and uti­lized our middle attack which opened up our outside attack." 
The Belles improved their play as the games progressed. In the first game, the Belles were guilty of seven service er­rors. By the fourth game, they collected none. 
Lorton, who is nationally ranked in kills and blocks, pro­duced 15 kills and 14 digs. Junior Kim Branstetter chipped in 9 kills, 14 digs and 17 service points. Meanwhile, junior Michelle Martino, who's also nationally ranked as a setter, accomplished 31 assists and produced 29 out of 30 digs. 
The Belles are currently working on a new defense. 
"It seems to be working well. We just need to tidy things up a bit," stated Schroeder-Biek. 
"We need to work on the transition aspect of the game and speed up the defense as well, " agreed Lorton. 
The Belles next encounter will be their first home game on Tuesday, September 15 against Concordia University at 7p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
For more information and assistance regarding the investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the Better Business Bureau of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 or 800-439-5313. 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
TYPING 287-4082 
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!! BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday Pandora's Books 808 Howard 3 blks. from campus 233-2342 
3-year old male chesapeake bay retriever needs good home for the school year. For information call Mike or Theresa at 239-5368. 
GROUPS! GROUPSI GROUPS! 
Groups are now starting at the University Counseling Center for students interested in enhancing self-esteem, dealing with relationship concerns, recovering from an eating disorder, coping with others alcohol or drug abuse/ use, graduate students in need of support and more. Call UCC at 239­7336 for details. CALL NOW! 

ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: Les Miserables songbook. To the girl who borrowed it at Choral auditions & then never returned it: I don't know who you are, so PLEASE call or drop it off at 328 Stanford. X2033. 
Lost: Gold cladaugh bracelet Possibly in NDH or Loftus. Huge sentimental value. If found please call 271-7288. REWARD 
FOUND: 2 keys on a ring outside of Haggar on 9-7. Call x2989 to claim. 
LOST: Men's black Seiko dress watch between library circle and fifth floor Flanner. Please call Gerald at X3692. 


WANTED 
EASY, FUN PHONE WORK. EVENINGS. HIGH PAY. 237-1988. 
Have fun earning $500-$1,500 in one week! _Student organizations needed for marketing project on­campus. Must be motivated and organized. Call (BOO) 592-2121 extension 308. 

UNIQUE, PART-TIME, INCOME OPPORTUNITY. Seeking a creative, competitive marketing person to represent a new, low cost product to people searching for a new career. For interview call 234­1171, Bam-5pm. 
EXTERIOR PAINTERS Experienced Student Painters needed to paint South Bend area homes. Full or Part Time. AMERICA'S COLLEGE PAINTERS 1 (800)626-6267 "painting America's homes coast to coast" 
EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our circulars!. ..Begin NOW!...FREE packet! SEYS, Dept 100, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. 
Mature ND or SMC student(s) wanted to provide child care in our home for two happy children (2 yrs;6 mos). Must have own transportation, interest in children. Call Mary Fran, 289-7017. 
HELP! 2 desperate people need ride to the U2 concert 9/16 in Chi. Will pay gas & tolls. Call x2033. 
TWO NEED RIDE to CHICAGO to U2 on SEPT 18. Will pay gas & tolls. x2521 
HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP! I need a ride to and from Muncie (BSU) on any weekend or weekday. I will pay gas, bake cookies, give you my firstborn! Best Friend's b­day is the 15th. Can't miss it! Call me. 
Amy x4530 

NEED RIDE TO MICHIGAN STATE 9/18 & ANY WEEKEND $ 284­5053$ 

FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST for ND-SMC families. 2 bdrms. w/twin beds; 1 bdrm. w/single. 10 mins. from campus in attractive neighborhood. For football & special weekends. Call 234-2626. 
SHARP RIVERFRONT HOME­FOOTBALL WKNDS/SHORT TERM RENTALS. ALSO APT. & BEDROOMS.257 -9101. 
BED "N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 

FOR SALE 
RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR, TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR, TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY 
FREE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-5959 CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 MERCEDES ......... $200 
86 vw. _________________________ $ 50 
87 MERCEDES .......... $100 65 MUSTANG ............. $ 50 Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright #IN11KJC. 
U2 Tickets For Sale! 4 Lawn Seats, 9-15 at World, Chicago. $40 ea or best 287-5724. 
STUDENT TIX BOOK 4-SALE. JENNIFER 284-5503. 
FURNITURE: Call: 287-7611 Entertainment Center & Bookcase 
$30; Teak Bookcase $75; Oak Bookcase $20; Chair $20; Green Easy Chair $50. 
SKIS Atomic 833sl -top of the line direct from factory, still wrapped excellent price! Kevin x1062 
Like NEW AMPLIFIER For Sale Call Mike x1849 
Sofa for sale.Piease call 258-0298 

TICKETS 

WANTED: GA'S/STUDENT TIX FOR ANY/ALL HOME GAMES­MICH. A MUST! ALUMNI IN DESPERATE NEED! I 708-843­6947. 
I need GA's and/or Student tix for all or any game. Please call Aaron @ 271-2908. 
I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S JASON X1746 
NEED PENN ST. TIX. GA'S ONLY. 234-8306 OR 800-323-7687. 
•• 1993 FINAL FOUR •• I have 2 tickets to 1993 FINAL 4 in New Orleans. Will trade for STANFORD GA's. Larry x3671 
I need 4 BOSTON COLLEGE tix. PLEASE call Robin at x2867 if you have some to spare. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED 2 GA's AND 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR PENN STATE. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS CaiiJohn X4478 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need GA's for B.C ..B.Y.U. and Penn St. Will pay BIG! #4419 
I need student and/or GA Purdue football tickets and Boston College GA football tickets; please call Dave at x4506. 
MY BRO IS A GREAT H.S. QB. HE LUVS TO GET PLAYS FROM 
ND. HE NEEDS PLAYS. THERE'S ONE WAY. SELL ME YOUR PU, ST, BYU, BC, 
PENN GA'S! CALL ERIN 284-5128. 
HELP! NEED TO TRADE 4 BC GA'S FOR 4 BYU GA'S. PLEASE CALL COLLECT AFTER 8 PM 
(609) 769-0721. 

WANTED: STANFORD GA'S &/OR STUD'S WILL PAY$$$! 
PLEASE CALla TODAY! 
DANIELA 284-4346 OR BOB 283-1 090 THANKS! 
NEED 1 STANFORD AND 1 BC GA. CALL X2805 
PLEASE SELL ME ONE GA TIC FOR PURDUE. CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303 BEFORE 4 PM OR 272-3753 AFTER 5 PM. 
STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE 
CALL 283-1747 
I'VE GOT TWO PURDUE GAs YOU'VE GOT TWO PENN STATE GAs WANNA TRADE? Call Brei (me) at 1248. I love you. 
NEED 2 BYU GA'S BADLY-CALL X3625 
Need 2 tickets-GAs-for Oct 3 Stanford game. Call Angela 283­4058 
NEED 2 TICKETS Penn State game Nov 14. BIG $ Call Sam Collect (D)908-687-1330 (N)201­376-9427 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $ I Need 2 BYU GA's $ $ Patty x4637 $ $$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Selling 1 U2 tik, Lawn seat 9/15 $30 x3474 
Alumni needs 
2 PURDUE GA's Please Help. Call Maria x1347 
PLEASE! NEED 2 GA'S FOR PENN ST. CALL MARION 234-6836. $$$ 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 618-439-3338. 
HELP! NEED 2-10 STANFORD GA'S CALL JOE X1560 I need 2 GA's for both B.C. and Penn State. 283-4607. 
Need atleast 3 Purdue GA'S. Will pay big $. 273-0629 
Need STANFORD GA's or STD's Call Brian 273-0967 
HAVE 2 STANFORD GA'S NEED TIX FOR BOSTON COLLEGE. CALL WENDY X1264 
NEED BYU TIXI CALL WENDY X1264 
MARRIED STUDENT TIX BOOK 
FOR SALE BOB 287-9118 
NO ID REQUIRED NO ID REQUIRED 
WILL TRADE 2 40-YARD LINE STANFORD GA'S AND $$ FOR 2 PENN ST GA'S. X1746 
I NEED ND FOOTBALL TJCKETS.272-6306 
BOSTON COLLEGE SUCKS! 
So why don't you sell me your tickets? Call Delli 283-1693 
NEED PENN STATE TICKETS. WILL PAY $40 EACH. CALL COLLECT 614-354-5716 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED TWO GA TICKETS FOR THE STANFORD GAME. CALL MATI AT X1741 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEEDED: TWO STANFORD GA'S CALL TOM AT 273-8355 
STUDENT TICKETS 4 SALE CALL X1547 TONY OR MARK 
NEED TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAMES 277-1659 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 2 PENN STATE GAs 284-5208 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need GA's for all home games Brian 273-8368 
Need GA's for all home games Kim 284-4401 
•...... LOOK ....... 
I need stud tic packets & GA's all games. JASON 233-4008 
Believe it or not I am willing to pay money for a Purdue ticketl!l call Tanya x1759 
Need 1 Stanford GA-Trade for Purdue GA call 3351 
$$$$$$$NEED TIX$$$$$$$$ Penn State GA's or student tix. Call x2998 
NEED TO TRADE 2 STANFORD GA'SFOR 2 BCGA'S CALL 283-4194. 
TIX APPLICATION FOR SALE UNLOAD FOR CHEAP BOB 287-9118 
PLEASE HELP MY FAMILY NEEDS TJX FOR THE REST OF THE GAMES BUD 234-9433 
PERSONAL 
Hey Niff 
OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 
To the guy in the fr. dogbook who likes trees: there's a large oak outside Grace with a hole in it HAVE A BALL! 
MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR FREE HAIRCUTS. CALL COSJMO'S 277-1875. 
STEPHANIE AND LISA-The cookies were great! Thank you from the bottom of my stomache. If you ever need someone to buy, calL JAMIE 
MARTY PHELAN Roses are red Violets are blue Have a Happy Birthday 
Then shave off the beard! Love ya, Jim (Trojanman) and Diane 
MARGE 
when the screen door slams, does your dress sway? 
U2U2U2U2U2U2U2U2U2U2U2 
Help!!!!!!!! Two petite women desparately need a ride to the U2 concert Wed. night in Chicago!!!!! Will pay for gas and a beer. Please call Tracy or Tara at 
x3534. 
U2U2U2U2U2U2U2U2U2U2U2 
"HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY CINDY!" 
WE ARE SO GLAD YOU ARE FINALLY LEGAL! HAVE A GREAT DAY BECAUSE WE CAN'T WAIT TO COMPILE OUR TOP TEN LIST. 
"HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY CINDY!" 
Love. all the gang 

Monday, September 14, 1992 The Observer page 13 
MLB STANDINGS NL LEADERS 
AMERICAN CONFERENCEAMERICA.H LEAGUE BATTIHG-VanSiyke, Pittsburgh, .331; Sh­E..t Eloat Dlvlelon effield, San Diego, .330; Kruk, Philadelphia, .328; 
w L T Pet. PF PA

Gwynn, San Diego, .319; LWalker, Montreal, .:ito;
w l Pet GB l10 Streak Home Away Buffalo 1 0 0 1.000 40 7
Toronto 83 60 .580 Grace, Chicago, .309; Butler, Los Angeles, .309.
7-3 Woo 1 45-24 38-36 Indianapolis 1 0 0 1.000 14 3
Baltimore 78 64 .549 4112 z-4-6 Lost 2 37-34 RUNS-Bonds, Ptnsburgh, 96; Grissom, Mon­Miami
41-30 0 0 0 .000 0 0
Milwaukee treal, 90; Hollins, Philadelphia, 89; Biggio, Hous­1992
77 65 .542 5 112 z-7-3 Won 2 44-27 33-38 New England 0 0 0 .000 0 0
ton, 87; VanSlyke, Pittsburgh, 87; Pendleton, At­
New York 69 74 .483 14 7-3 OF 9/12192 RECORD PTS. PVS.
Lost 1 37-34 32-40 N.Y. Jets 0 1 0 .000 17 20
Cleveland 66 75 .468 16 6-4 3 29-41 lanta, 85; Sandberg, Chicago, 81. Central
Woo 37-34 
1

Detroit 67 77 .465 RBI-Oauhon, Philadelphia, 99; Pendleton, At­Miami(47) 1-0-0 1,534 1
16 1/2 4-6 Won 2 31-38 36-39 Cincinnati 2 0 0 1.000 45 24
Boston 65 77 .458 17 1/2 z-5-5 Lost 2 40-31 lanta. 94; Sheffield, San Diego, 93; McGrWf, San25-46 Pittsburgh 1 0 0 1.000 29 24
Weat Division Diego, 93; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 87; Hollins, Philadel­Washington (11) 2-o-o 1.481 22 Cleveland 0 1 0 .000 3 
14w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Houston 0 1 0 .000 24 29phia, 81; LWalker, Montreal, 81. 
Oakland 85 .599 Won 44-27 .HITS-Pendleton, Atlanta, 175; VanSlyke, 3 Florida St. (2) 2-0-0 1,361 5 Weat
57 6-4 5 41-30

Minnesota 80 Pittsburgh, 174; Sheffield, San Diego, 166; Gwynn, 
63 .559 5112 z-6-4 Won 2 44-30 36-33 Kansas City 2 0 0 1.000 50 17
Chicago 75 66 .532 9112 z-6-4 Lost 3 46-28 Sa~ Diego, 165; Grace, Chicago, 161; Sandberg, Florida 1-0-0 1,300 4
4

29-38 Denver 1 0 0 1.000 17 13Texas Chicago, 158; Grissom, Montreat, 157.
70 75 .483 16 1/2 z-5-5 Lost 1 34-41 36-34 San Diego 0 1 0 .000 10 24
Calnornia 64 79 .448 21 1/2 DOUBLE5-VanSiyke, Ptnsburgh, 40; Duncan, Texas A&M (1) 3-0-0 1,235 7
5

z-4-6 Lost 2 36-34 28-45 LA Aalders 0 2 0 .000 34 41
Kansas City 63 79 .444 22 3-7 Won 38-33 Philadelphia, 37; WCtark, San Francisco, 36; Lank. Seattle
1 25-46 0 2 0 .000 10 47
Seattle 56 ford, St. Louis, 34; Grissom, Montreal, 34; JBell, 8 Michigan 0-0-1 1,220 6
87 .392 29 1/2 0-10 Lost 10 33-37 23-50 NATIONAL CONFERENCE
Pittsburgh, 34; Pendleton, Atlanta, 32; Murray, New NATIONAL LEAGUE York, 32. Notre Dame 1-0-1 1,189 3 Eaat
7 w L T Pet. PF PAE..t Divlalon TRIPLES-DSanders, Atlanta, 14; Finley, Dallas 2 0 0 1.000 57 38
Houston, 11; VanSlyke, Ptnsburgh, 11 ; Butter, Los
w L Pet GB L10 Home Away S Syracuse 2-0-0 1,126 9 Philadelphia 1
Streak 
0 0 1.000 15 13Pittsburgh 82 Angeles, 11; Alicea. St. Louis, 10; Offerman, Los

60 .577 z-6-4 Lost 1 45-26 37-34 Washington 1 1 0 .500 34 40
Montreal 78 63 .553 3112 z-6-4 Won 2 Angeles, 8; Sandberg, Chicago, 8. Alabama (1) 2-0-0 1,039 8
9

38-35 40-28 Phoenix 0 1 0 .000 7 23
HOME RUNS-McGrlff, San Diego, 34; Sh­
St. Louis 70 69 .504 101/2 z-6-4 Won 1 38-32 32-37 N.Y. Giants 0 2 0 .000 42 65
Chicago 70 70 .500 11 effield, San Diego, 30; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 28; 10 Penn St. 2-0-0 977 10
3-7 Lost 1 36-31 34-39 Central 77 Z-3-7 4
New York 63 .450 18 Lost 35-32 Daulton, Philadelphia, 26; Hollins, Philadelphia, Tampa Bay 
28-45 2 0 0 1.000 54 10Philadelphia 23; LWalker, Montreal, 21; Pendleton, Atlanta, 21.
58 82 .414 23 5-5 Won 35-38 11 Colorado 2-0-0 921 12 Chicago 1 0 .500 33
1 23-44 

1 52 Detroit 1 1 0 .500 55 44 Weal Divielon STOLEN BASES-Grissom, Montreal, 69; 
DeShields, Montreal, 45; Butler, Los Angeles, 41; 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away 12 Nebraska 2-0-0 893 11 1
Minnesota 1 0 .500 40 51Atlanta 86 55 L~nkford, St. Louis, 40; Robens, Cincinnati, 39;
.610 8-2 Won 8 45-26 41-29 Green Bay 0 2 0 .000 23 54
Cincinnati 77 .542 9 112 Z-6-4 Won 2 44-23 Nixon, Atlanta, 37; Biggio, Houston, 36; OSm~h. St. 13 Oklahoma 2-0-0 868
65 13
33-42 WealSan Diego Louis, 36.
75 66 .532 11 z-6-4 Lost 2 40-30 35-36 San Francisco 0 0 1.000 31 14
Houston 67 75 .472 191/2 z-5-5 PITCHING (17 Decisions)-Giavine, Atlanta,Lost 3 39-32 28-43 14 Tennessee 2-0-0 707 20 Atlanta 0 37 41
1 .500

San Francisco 63 .444 4-6 1 20-6, .769, 2.81; TewkSbury, St. Louis, 15-5, .750, 
79 23 1/2 Lost 38-35 25-44 New Orleans 1 0 .500 41 21
Los Angeles 57 2.05; Swindell, Cincinnati, 12-6, .667, 2.54; Mor­
85 .401 29 1/2 3-7 Won 1 36-37 21-48 15 UCLA 1-0-0 626 16 LA Rams 0 1 0 .000 7 
40

z-denotes first game was a win. gan, Chicago, 14-7, .667, 2.61; KHill, Montreal, 15· Sunday'• Games
8, .652, 2.84; Cone, New York, 13-7, .650, 2.88;
NATIONAL LEAGUE 18 N. Carolina St. 3-0-0 586 19 Late Gamea Not lnctuded 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Leibrandt, Atlanta, 11-6, .647, 3.58. 
Saturday'• Gamea Washington 24, Atlanta 17 
Saturday'e Gamea STRIKEOUTS-Cone, New York, 214; Smottz, Montreal 4, New York 1 17 Clemson 1-1-0 525 15 New OMeans 28, Chicago 6 
Minnesota 7, California 2 Atlanta, 197; SFemandez, New York, 173; GMad­
St. Louis 11 , Chicago 3 Dallas 34, New York Giants 28 
Detroit 9, Boston 5 d~x, Chicago, 172; Rljo, Cincinnati, 157; Drabek,Pittsburgh 9, Philadelphia 7 18 Stanford 1-1-0 425 21 Tampa Bay 31, Green Bay 3 
Pittsburgh, 152; Banes, San Diego, 141.
New York 11, Kansas City 9 Atlanta 9, Houston 3 Cincinnati 24, Los Angeles Raiders 21, OT 
Oakland 5, Seattle 4 SAVES-LaSmlth, St. Louts, 38; Wetteland,
Los Angeles 7, San Francisco 0 19 Georgia 1-1-0 391 14 Detroh 31, Minnesota 17 
Cleveland 5, Chicago 3 Montreal, 33; Myers, San Diego, 33; DJones,
Cincinnati 7, San Diego 4 Kansas City 26, Seattle 7 
Toronto4, Texas 2 Ho~ston, 31; Charlton, Cincinnati, 25; MtWIIIIams,
Sunday'• Gamea 20 Virginia 2-0-0 385 23 Buffalo at San Francisco 
Milwaukee 5, Baltimore o Philadelphia, 25; Dibble, Cincinnati, 19. 
Late Gamaa Not Included Houston at IndianapolisSunday'a Gamea Philadelphia 6, Pittsburgh 3 21 Ohio St. 2-o-o 317 22 New England at Los Angeles Ramslate Gamea Not Included Atlanta at Houston New York Jets at PittsburghDetroit 7, Boston 2 San Francisco at Los Angeles 22 Georgia Tech 1-0-0 268 24 San Diego at DenverKansas City 3, New York o Cincinnati at San Diego Philadelphia at Phoenix, (n)
Milwaukee 3, Baltimore 1 TRANSACTIONS 
23 San Diego St. 1-Q-1 227 Monday'a Game
Minnesota 6, California 2 New York at Montreal, (n) Miami at Cleveland, 9 p.m. 
Cleveland at Chicago Chicago at St. Louis, (n) Monday's Games 
Toronto at Texas Montreal (Barnes 6-5) at Philadelphia (Greene 
BASEBALL 24 Mississippi St. 1-1-0 79 18 Sunday, Sept. 20 Cincinnati at Green Bay, 1 p.m. 
American Laague 
25

Seattle at Oakland 2-1), 7:35p.m. 
BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Recalled Manny Mississippi 2-0-0 7 4 Denver at Philadelphia, 1 p.m. 
Monday'a Gamea New York (Fernandez 12-10) at Chicago (Boskie Alexander, shonstop, from Rochester of the Inter-=c=-....:.::..:..;.:c::..:!::..o::..:__-=...::._.=__....:_::.__ Kansas Chy at Houston, 1 p.m. 
Chicago (Alvarez 4-3) at New York (Sanderson 5-8), 8:05 p.m. 
national League. ( ) =First-place votes AP New OMeans at Atlanta, 1 p.m. 
12-9), 7:30 p.m. Pittsburgh (Drabek 12-10) at St. Louis (Osborne BOSTON RED SOX-Recalled Phil Plantler, 
San Francisco at New York Jets. 1 p.m. 
10-7), 8:05p.m. 

Milwaukee (Bones 8-9) at Boston (Darwin 8-7), outfielder; Daryl Irvine and Scott Taylor, pitchers; Seattle at New England, 1 p.m. 
7:35p.m. San Francisco {Rogers 0-0) at Houston {Blair 4­John Flaherty, catcher, and Steve Lyoos, outfielder, Tampa Bay at Minnesota, 1 p.m. 
6), 8:35 p.m. 

Kansas City (Reed 2-6) at Baltimore (Sutcliffe from Pawtucket of the International League. Cleveland at Los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m. 
15-12), 7:35p.m. Los Angeles (Ke.Gross 7-13) at San Diego 
FOOTBALL Cleveland (Mesa 6-10) at Toronto (Cone 2·1) 
CLEVELAND INDIANS-Recalled Alan Embree, Detroh at Washington, 4 p.m. 
(Ge.Harris 2-7), 10:05 p._m. 

National Football League
pitcher, from Canton-Akron of the Eastern League. Los Angeles Rams at Miami, 4 p.m. 
7:35p.m. ' Only games scheduled 
I-IOUSTON OILERs-Waived Richard Johnson, Minnesota (Tapani 15-10) at Oakland (Stewan cornerback. Signed William Fuller, defensive end. 
SEAffiE MARINERs-Activated Erik Hanson, Phoenix at Dallas, 4 p.m. 
phcher, from the 15-day disabled list. Pittsburgh at San Diego, 4 p.m. 
11-9), 10:05 p.m. 
KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-Placed Kimble Anders,
TEXAS RANGERs-Activated Mike Jeffcoat, Indianapolis at Buffalo, 8 p.m. Only gamea acheduled pitcher, from the 60-day disabled list. Activated running back, on Injured reserve. Activated Darrell Monday, Sept. 21 
Terry Mathews, pitcher, from the 15-day disabled New York Giants at Chicago, 9 p.m. 
~ ,e, cornerback, from the practice squad. 
list. 
WE WANT YOU! 






N.D. Boxing Club 
Practice Begins Today 
4:00p.m. 
J.A.C.C. Boxing Room 
• 

--=~~~=-­
1'\0RmU CfnTfR fORmmt 4l R T S 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 8 P.M. 0'LAUGH LIN AUDITORIUM 

YESTERDAY 
A LIVE TRIBUTE TO THE 


BEATLES 
SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS $5 ND STUDENTS $8 ADULTS $10 

MOREAU GALLERIES, through Oct. 2-Barbara Shinn, photographs; Cheryl O'Neill, drawings; Marcia Kaplan, sculpture. Admission free. Information: 284-4655. COMING ATTRACTIONS ... Lend Me a Tenor national touring production, Oct 14... American Choral Directors Association Central Division Collegiate Honors Festival Choir concert, Oct. 31 ... 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary·s 
. tit n
box office. located in O'Laughiin Auditorium. Scunt Mary's Co e~ Information and charge card orders: 219/284-4626. 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 





The Observer/Jake Peters The Observer/Jake Peters 
Michigan's Ricky Powers (12) attempts to avoid Jeff Burris. Powers had 31 yards on eight carries. Junior fullback Jerome Bettis turns the corner against t~e 

The Observer/Jake Peters 

Notre Dame's Jim Flanigan (44) applies pressure on Grbac. This is one of the few times that Elvis was hurried on the day. 
---~-----~-------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------­
Monday, September 14, 1992 The Observer page 15 
Men's cross country dumps Georgetown 

BY SEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
In their season opener, the Notre Dame men's cross country team hammered the Georgetown Hoyas 24-31. 
Notre Dame has now defeated the Hoyas six years straight and have never lost to Georgetown in a dual meet. 
The Irish benefitted from their experienced veterans and had great performances from their younger runners. The winner of the race was junior Mike McWilliams, who finished with a time of 24:53.1 and looked good throughout the entire five miles. 
The race itself was a battle from start to finish. As was rumored, the Hoyas came· out with an explosive start. Georgetown's Andy Heily and Andy Downan challenged the foundation of the Irish team by taking an initial lead and holding it for a mile and a half. 
"We wanted to run a hard four miles and try to hold on for the final mile," Georgetown coach Bog Gagliano said. 
There's no doubt that initially this tactic caught the Irish by surprise. Georgetown wanted it all from the start. 
But Notre Dame Coach Joe Piane knew that Georgetown could not hold the pace. He knew that the Hoyas were only trying to throw off the Notre Dame game plan. Veteran all-Americans John Coyle and Mike McWilliams let Georgetown's Andy Heily and Andy Downan rocket out in front. 
After years of running, they knew that these two would not hold on. Sure enough, after a mile and a half the Hoyas could not keep up the blistering pace and drifted back into the pack. It was a hard fought middle race with the lead changing every 200 meters. 
At the three and a half inile mark, McWilliams took over. He broke from the pack and stayed out in front for the final mile and a half to win. The battle within the pack continued behind McWilliams. With three quarters of a mile to go, Coyle surged and finished second right behind McWilliams. 
Georgetown runner Andy Heily broke out right after Coyle and finished third. Hoya Andy Downan came blasting down the home stretch to clinch fourth place. 
But the Hoyas were to be denied. Sophomores Nate Ruder and John Cowan had great showings. Captain John Coyle was impressed by the perfor­mance of Ruder and Cowan. 
"Those guys really held the pace through the middle miles," he said. 
Mike McWilliams, who was an All American last year has wasted no time in establishing himself as a force for the '92 season. Stellar performances by other young runners like sophomore Shane Dubois and freshman Joe Dunlop are encouraging to the Irish both for this season and the seasons ahead. The whole team looked good and every runner contributed to the victory. 
V-Ball 
continued from page 20 
hitter had six kills for the game. With the Bobcats close at 8-7, however, the Irish took over to score the last seven points of the game. 
Notre Dame continued to struggle in game three, com­mitting ten hitting errors and falling behind 14-9. The JACC crowd rallied behind their team, though, cheering loudly as· Molly Stark served six straight points to lead a come­back. After contributing a kill and a block assist to the charge, captain Alycia Turner ended the match with a perfectly placed tip. 
"I was definitely happy with the comeback," said Brown, despite her feelings about the overall match. "We played with some emotion and played de­termined to .win it in three games." 
In contrast to Friday night's contest, Notre Dame and Western Michigan both exe­cuted well on Saturday. At one point, the teams went nine straight rallies without commit­ting an error. 
"I'm very pleased with 
tonight's match," Brown com­mented. "It was a big turnaround. We played very well." 
Notre Dame led game one just 10-7 when the teams staged a long, furious rally. After feigning a set, Janelle Karlan stuffed the ball over the net for a side out, and the Irish took over from there. 
Game two was a seesaw affair until Notre Dame scored six unanswered points to take command at 14-7. Peters led the charge with six kills in six attempts for the game. 
Once again in game three, the Irish pulled away from the Broncos halfway through. Turner and Jessica Fiebelkorn, veterans who have had to ad­just to nonstarting roles, keyed the Notre Dame attack with three kills apiece. 
"Alycia and Jessica have re­sponded (to their new roles) very well," said Brown. "They are both team oriented players. No one is satisfied with a substi­tute's role, but they have played well and will continue to fight for their starting jobs back." 
The Irish offensive attack was balanced for the match, with setter Karlan logging 38 assists to help five teammates tally five or more kills apiece. Earlander Taylor and Kim Lee were overpowering for the Broncos, scoring 15 and 14 kills, respectively. 
In other MCC-MAC Challenge matches, Western Michigan (1­
3) topped Loyola Friday night, while Ohio {4-2) downed the Ramblers Saturday night. 
The two contrasting wins ex­tended Notre Dame's season­starting winning streak to seven. The Irish will try to continue their good execution next weekend at the Purdue Invitational. 
Fo r S L' n i o r N u r s i n g S t u d L' n t s 

~URSI~C 




HORIZONS 

A seminar to help you prepare for personal and professional decisions. 
October 16 & 17, 1992 Mayo Medical Center • Rochester, Minnesota 
SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS 
• 
Transition: From New Graduate to Expert Nurse 

• 
The Future Nurses of Oz 


BREAKOUT SESSIONS 
• 
Financial Planning • Preparing for Your Job Search 

• 
Collaborative Practice-What It Is And What It Isn't 

• 
State Boards: Are You Ready? 


Your $10 registration fee covers sessions, instruction materials and food. Mayo Medical Center will cover the cost of lodging for out-of-town participants. 
Deadline for registration is October 9J 1992 
Calll-800-545-0357 for registration information and brochure. 
C5J 
Nursing Horizons is sponsored by Mayo Center for Nursing Rochester, Minnesota 55905 
Mayo Foundation is an affirmativt' action and <'qual Of'f~>rlllllillf ,•,lumtor 111111 <'lllfi/Olfl'r. A smoke-fr<'l' institution. · · 

Sloppy 
continued from page 20 
until quarterback Rick Mirer hit Lake Dawson for an 18-yard gain. Michigan's Alfie Burch also hit Dawson, who coughed the ball up for the first of three Irish turnovers. 
"I tried to do too much after catching the ball," Dawson said. "I just have to look at the film and see what I did wrong and try to improve on it." 
Reggie Brooks also tried to do too much with the ball, but his result was an earth-shaking 20­yard touchdown run. 
After spinning away from two tacklers, he slipped, caught himself with his hand, broke another tackle, took a jarring hit near the goal line and col­lapsed into the endzone. 
But like most of the players on both sides of the field, Brooks' day was full of peaks and valleys. 

If his touchdown run was the highest peak, the lowest valley was his botched exchange with Mike Miller that stalled another Notre Dame drive. 
Notre Dame, however, was not the only generous team on the field Saturday. Michigan also did its best to give the game away. 
Wolverine quarterback Elvis Grbac threw three interceptions (half of his 1991 total) and each came in a clutch situation. 
Tom Carter snagged the first interception in the endzone in the second quarter, Brian Ratigan made a key intercep­tion at the Michigan 20-yard line late in the game, and Jeff Burris picked off a pass to no­body deep in Irish territory in the final minute. 
Notre Dame capitalized on those three turnovers to the tune of three points, on a Craig Hentrich field goal after Ratigan's pick. 
Happy Birthday 
SAR-BEAR 
(3 Days Late) 
Keep Smiling!!! Love, 
Us 

Three turnovers, three points. You do the math. Both teams also showed some flashes of brilliance. 
On the first play of the fourth quarter, Grbac hit Derrick Alexander in the corner of the endzone to extend the Wolverine lead to 10. 
But the Irish came back, exe­cuting some big plays to creep back into the game. 
Mirer hit Dawson again on a crucial 4th and 10 play that kept a scoring drive going, and after Jerome Bettis punched it in from the two, the Irish were within striking distance. 
After Hentrich's field goal tied the game, both teams again showed their generosity. Michigan went for it all with just over a minute left, but Burris latched on to the lonely pass and the Irish had the ball deep in their own territory. 
Holtz will be second-guessed for the rest of his coaching life about his play calling and use of the clock as time ran out. 
"Our thinking at the end was we were backed up and we ran a play thinking we could pop it out and we came close to pop­ping it," Holtz said. "You can sit there and second-guess all you want, I just wanted to give our players the best chance to win." 
But the game wasn't won or lost (or tied) on that series. It was tied because both teams followed big plays with big turnovers and allowed the other team to stay in the game. 
"We don't need to make great plays," Holtz said. "We just need to make less bad ones." 
Both teams should heed that advice. 
page 16 The Observer Monday, September 14, 1992 
Miami, Cleveland offensive lines: A study in contrasts 
CLEVELAND (AP) -Not counting ABC analyst and former St. Louis Cardinal Dan Dierdorf, how many offensive linemen can you name? 
For a change Monday night, pay particular attention to the offensive lines of the Miami Dolphins and Cleveland Browns. It ought to be a study in contrasts. 
The Dolphins have used the draft to overhaul their line since Dan Marino arrived in 1983. The Browns, on the other hand, have virtually ignored the line in the draft since they got Bernie Kosar in 1985. 
It shows. Marino has been sacked 102 times since 1985; Kosar, who has played fewer games over that span because of injuries, has been sacked 228 times, including 11 times in last week's 14-3 loss at Indianapolis. 
Granted, Marino's quick re­lease frequently saves him from damage, and although he's no Fran Tarkenton, he's fleeter than Kosar. All the more reason, critics of the Browns say, to provide Kosar with a first-rate line. 
"It's extremely important," Marino said. "It all starts right there with our offensive line. We've got a pretty good group working, and the fortunate thing this year is, they've been together since camp started, for the most part." 
Last year, Marino was sacked a career-high 27 times, for reasons that had little to do with any erosion of his own skills. 
"A couple of guys were hurt, a couple of guys were holding out, moving to different positions," Marino said. "It makes it awfully tough to get in sync and to get a rhythm going of­fensively if your offensive line is switching all the time, positions and people. I think it's very important to have a solid offensive line that's played together throughout camp." 
Cue Kosar, who last week played behind a group of five linemen who hardly knew each other. All-pro center Jay Hilgenberg, acquired from Chicago in desperation late in the preseason, barely had time to get measured for a Cleveland uniform in time for the opener, much less learn the playbook. 



Women's harriers drop tough meet to Georgetown 
BY JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 

"It was like playing Miami in football." 
That is how senior Lisa Gorski, captain of the Notre Dame women's cross-country team, described this weekend's match-up with sixth-ranked Georgetown. 
Predictably, the Irish fell to the visiting Hoyas, but not without a fight. 
After leading for the first two miles of the race, the Irish har­riers were overcome by the tal­ented Hoyas, who were led by All-American Christy Constantin's blistering pace. 
Constantin finished the 5K course with a time of 17:25, a full 34 seconds ahead of Irish sophomore Sarah Riley and the Hoyas took the next three spots to secure a 23-32 victory. 
"Every year we run better," said Gorski, a Palatine, 11. na­tive. "We have consistently improved against them." 
Four Irish sophomores took spots six thru nine, led by Stefanie Jensen's time of 18:21. Next came Becky Alfieri. Eva Flood, and fmally Emily Husted, just 13 seconds behind Jensen. 
"We really packed it in against a great team," noted Gorski. 
The Georgetown meet served as a great challenge to an Irish team that is led by this core of five sophomore runners. The Irish and fifth-year coach Mike Connelly were able to prove they can run with anyone, now they just have to work on closing and they will become a team to be reckoned with in the future. 
And that is what Gorski and the younger Irish harriers pre­fer to focus their attention on. 
"Every year the team's goals go to a higher level," stated Gorski, "These girls that are sophomores have two more years. But now we have to roll in some invitational titles." 
Those titles would be the up­coming National Catholic Meet here at Notre Dame, and the Notre Dame Invitational in October. The Irish must im­prove at these meets before 
they set their sights on  the  
NCAA  District  Meet  on  
November 14.  

But right now they are happy with the progress they have made to this point. 
"I don't know why, but this team's a lot closer," said Gorski. "We have some great freshmen and sophomores, and the team spirit is awesome." 
Does Your Heart Good. 
American Heart Association 





Startline" 
CHECKING ACCOUNT 
SPORTSBRIEFS 

SportsTalk welcomes Jerome Bettis and volleyball standouts Christy Peters and Jessica Fiebelkorn on WVFI 640 AM. Call in with questions at 239-6400 on Tuesday at 8 p.m. 
ND/SMC Sailing team mandatory meeting on September 14 at 
6:30. Meet at the boathouse 'and bring dues and insurance forms. Questions? Call Rudy Bryce at 283-4280. 
ND/SMC women's lacrosse is still looking for members. Questions? Call Heather at 284-5103 or Cathy at 283-4998. 
The campus 2·person golf scramble will take place on September 27. The tournament is open to all students, faculty and staff. Sign up as an individual or in pairs. Entries and entry fees due by September 23. 
RecSports intermural tennis players need to play first match by September 14. 
The SMC track team will be holding an informational meeting for all who are interested on September 14 at 8 p.m. in Angela Athletic Center. 
Anyone interested in off-campus women's football should call Theresa Forst or Marianne Haggerty at 273-2388. 
The Rowing Club will hold a meeting on September 14 at 7:30 
p.m. All interested in rowing at the Head of the Ohio should attend andbring checkbooks.+!'' 
Get
Smart. 
College students can get great haircuts from profes­sional stylists at everyday low prices. And you never need an appointment Stop in at our convenient mall location. At MasterCuts we trim prices. not quality. 
r---Mastereuts -1 ~-Mastereuts I 
I 20°/o Off I I 20°/o Off ' 
j j j
Any Haircut Any Perm 
[__ -~:~'~'~;"~-__j [____N~:u~~d!c:~~~'--_j 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 277-3770 
Fall Break Seminars 
October 18-23, 1992 Experiential/Service Learning 

Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
Service learning at one of seven sites in the Appalachian region Student-directed service/reflection One-credit Theology 


NEW WOMEN. NEW CHURCH 
Explore the changing role of women in the Church, and related issues of service Experiential learning in Chicago at 
various sites, with women in social ministry One-credit Theology or Gender Studies 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Poverty and Democracy in America: Whose Election? 
Direct Contact with political, agency, and 
Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Includes service and political awareness opportunities 

One credit TheologJ 

Applications Available Now at the CSC 
Applications Due: Tuesday, Sept. 15, 1992 

• 
NO MONTHLY SERVICE FEES When you write 8 checks or less 

• 
NO MINIMUM BALANCE 

• 
FREE INSfANT CASH ATMACCESS 


• 
FREE FIRST ORDER OF CHECKS Standard design 

• 
PAYS INTEREST AT COMPETfTIVE RATES 



Come to expect the best. 

South Bend • New Carlisle • Granger 
Norwest Bank Indiana, N.A. © 1991 Norwest Bank Indiana 
Ill 
ALUMNI 
SENIOR 



~!:CLUB 
Friday Night is 
Grad Night 
featuring graduate stuaent band 
"WAY PAST TENSE" 
must be 21 years old g,z 
Member FDIC 

Monday. September 14, 1992 The Observer page 17 

Edberg, Seles repeat as U.S. Open champions 
Edberg uses strength, stamina to overcome Sampras and rugged route to 
NEW YORK (AP)-All those long matches, four hours, five hours chasing balls in the day's heat and the night's chill, steeled Stefan Edberg enough to complete the most arduous march to the U.S. Open title in 96 years. 
Fatigue and sickness wore down Pete Sampras in the final Sunday, but it was Edberg's stamina, relentless rushes to the net and determination to overcome his own mistakes that made this championship memorable. 
Edberg won 3-6, 6-4, 7-6 (7­5), 6-2 in a mere 2 hours, 51 minutes, hardly the long dra­mas of his three straight five­setters from the fourth round on. Those took a total of 13 hours, 43 minutes. including a record 5:26 semifinal against Michael Chang on Saturday. 
The second straight U.S. Open title vaulted Edberg, a 26-year­old Swede, back to the No. 1 ranking he lost earlier this year to Jim Courier. 
It was a tournament that Edberg could only describe as "bumpy." 
"I really feel I earned it this year," he said after picking up the $500,000 winner's check. "I worked very hard. I've had some unbelievably tough matches. But I think that helped me a lot today. Mentally, I was feeling very strong today -the strongest that I felt all week." 
Edberg was the first player since Robert Wrenn in 1896 to win three five-setters en route to the U.S. championship. The Nationals. as they were called in the pre-Open era, didn't have the tie-breakers used now, but the path to the final was a lot easier and the game a lot slower. 
Sampras. the youngest Open champion when he won at 19 in 1990, looked much older and worn out after a night of sick­ness. And he accommodated Edberg by blowing several big opportunities. 
"Play like you want it, Pete," a fan yelled out to him between serves in the first game of the fourth set. Sampras looked an­noyed, promptly lost the next point and eventually the game, but it was a remark that re­flected Sampras' lackluster ef­fort. 
Serving for the set at 6-5 in the pivotal third set, Sampras hit one of his 11 double-faults and was broken. He double­faulted again to fall behind 6-4 in the tie-breaker, then lost the set when he swept a backhand crosscourt wide. 
Sampras was given rehydra­tion fluids intravenously for his cramps from a sudden stomach virus that doubled him over near the end of his semifinal victory over Courier on Saturday night. Sampras spent nearly three hours in the ref­erees' office getting treatment and resting, then left the empty National Tennis Center at 12:15 
a.m. 
He went back to his hotel room for a massage, and didn't get to sleep until about 3:30 

a.m. 
He woke less than five hours later. 


"I had a very long night last night and didn't get too much sleep," he said. "But I am not giving any excuses. He won the important points. 
"As the match wore on, espe­cially in the fourth set, I was out of gas. Maybe more mentally than physically. I was very tired, very exhausted." 
Sampras also said he was bothered by pain in his shins during the match, especially during the third and fourth sets. But that hardly accounted for his double-faults and first­serves sometimes 30 mph slower than his normal 120 mph shots. 
Sampras looked exhausted, his head drooping, his feet slow, his arms weary in the fourth set. Edberg knew it and pushed him harder to close it out. 
"I could see him sort of drop a little bit," Edberg said. "Once I got that first break of the fourth set. I really tried to focus on the next game so I could get at 2­love, get a little distance. That was really important. Then I got two breaks up really quickly, and I really noticed that he got a lot slower." 
Edberg became the first player to repeat as Open champion since Ivan Lendl won his third in a row in 1987. But Edberg didn't play nearly as well as a year ago when he crushed Courier. 
'The tennis wasn't that great out there," Sampras said. "Both of us were tentative." 
The second set went with serve until the lOth game, when Sampras double-faulted at deuce, whacked a backhand long for break-point, then dropped the set when Edberg speared a backhand volley that Sampras couldn't touch. 
Edberg had to keep digging out of trouble in the third set, fending off four break-points in the first game, one in the fifth game and two more in the sev­enth. 

You can 1 you: 
~ Are 18 or older 
~ Hold a valid driver's lirense 
~ Have an insured automobile 
0 Have a good driving fOOlrd 
0 Are friendly, enthusiastic & energetic 


Seles adds another Grand Slam title to her resume 
NEW YORK (AP) -It's the grunting. No question about it. 
Monica Seles, her grunting restored, once again reigns as a Grand Slam tournament champion -her sixth Grand Slam win in her last seven tries. 
When she pounded yet an­other forehand cross-court passing shot Sunday to wrap up her 6-3, 6-3 victory over Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, Seles had annexed her second straight U.S. Open title, to go along with her Australian and French open titles she won ear­lier this year. 
But it was her first tourna­ment title since her grunting became an issue at Wimbledon, where she lost in the final to Steffi Graf. The fact she lost that tournament and two more before the U.S. Open is purely coincidental, according to Seles. 
"I don't think about it," she said. "It's been part of me al­ways, since I was 12. I never did it on purpose. It became a bigger issue when I became the No. 1 player. It shouldn't get so much attention." 
But the grunting returned on the hardcourts of the National Tennis Center. And so did the winning ways as she raced through the two-week tourna­ment without dropping a set. 
"It is nice," Seles said of the victory worth $500,000. "I can play some great tennis. I think my game just kind of played a lot better." 
This was the 13th Grand Slam tournament Seles has played, and the eighth time she has reached the final. She has won seven. 
Since turning pro, Seles has dominated women's tennis, even more than Graf, Martina Navratilova and Chris Evert. 
Last year's U.S. Open was her fourth Grand Slam title in just 

SO[DHOMOR[ES ~ 
\Xle're looking for an enthusiastic individual who wants to get involved m 
JPW1993 
Applicolions for JPW Sophomore Chairperson ore o-.oilable ol the Lafortune Information Desk. Deadline-3 p.m., Mon. Sept2la1 at Student Activities. Siqn up for on interview when returninq opplicolion. 
Hope your Shenanigans performance last weekend was a 
"hair raising" experience. Live it up, 
Marge I mean Shelly Love, 
Your HC Fan Club 
nine events. faster than any other player in the Open era. In comparison, Evert captured her fourth Slam title in her 13th Slam event, Graf needed 17 and Navratilova 26. 
The women's title match fol­lowed the longest match in U.S. Open history since the advent of the tiebreak in 1970, a 5­hour. 26-minute men's semifi­nal marathon in which defend­ing champion Stefan Edberg outlasted Michael Chang 6-7 (3­7), 7-5, 7-6 (7-3). 5-7. 6-4. 
Seles began against Sanchez Vicario as if she would break the record for the shortest match, ripping through the first five game in 18 minutes. 
But Sanchez Vicario, the 1989 French Open winner and the first Spaniard to ever reach the women's title match here, fought back, holding serve twice and breaking Seles in the seventh game. The tide was stemmed, but only for a short time. 
While it wasn't easy, Seles nevertheless held at 30 in the ninth game to close out the opening set in 42 minutes. The last four games took 24 min­utes to play. 
"I wanted to try to win the point very quick, so I made a lot of errors," Sanchez Vicario said. "That gave the advantage to her to go five-love. I relaxed and concentrated better, but it was too much advantage al­ready for her." 
The second set was a bit more difficult as Sanchez Vicario broke Seles' serve twice. But Seles broke back just as many times, including in the final game. 
"Arantxa runs back so many balls that other people would not just even run for," Seles said. "She didn't give too many easy points. I had to work for it." 

We offer you: 
~Great pay 
~ Flexible hoW"S 
0 Free meals & unifonns 
~ Awards fur safi! driving
0 Clean & liiendly workplare
0 Otallenging, fun work 
0 Pay increases twire a year
0 Opportunity to purcha<ie PepsiCo ~'lock 
0 QUid care disrounl~ 
0 Credit union 
0 Great career opportunities
0 ReimLW"Sement allowanre (.'Hie f'<" .>tupl 
0 Paid vacation* 
0MedicaL'Life benefits* 
0 SharePower buying oplimt~· 
• Not e/ft.'Ctiw~fiN da1·1~( cmpln.\·mcnt 
YOU DO BELONG W!TH THE BEST! 

~ ~--~ ­
page 18 The Observer Monday, September 14, 1992 

..1HEFAMIIY 

Men's soccer explodes to douse Flames 
Observer Staff Report 
In the first two games of the season, the Notre Dame men's soccer team managed to score only one goal. 
Friday against Illinois­Chicago, however, th-e Irish rolled to their first win of the season with a 7-0 victory in front of more than 1000 fans at Alumni Field. 
It was an important game for an Irish team that has big ex­pectations for the 1992 season. 
With 9 starters and 17 let­termen returning from last year's 13-5-2 team, Notre Dame earned the No. 20 ranking in Soccer America's preseson poll and they proved that they are 
Women fall just short of their expectations 
. J 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team finished the weekend just short of their expectations, beating Wisconsin Green-Bay 2-0, and fighting to a 1-1 tie against Rutgers. 
The Irish began the weekend on a positive note, dominating Wisconsin-Green Bay 2-0. Goalkeeper Kim Gold and the rest of the Notre Dame defense played superb defense holding the Wisconsin Green-Bay to only nine shots on goal. 
The defense got outstanding support from the offense who held the ball at the opposing side of the field for the majority of the game. Notre Dame attempted 20 shots on goal, led by Alison Lester who tallied five. 
Michelle McCarthy started the scoring, hitting 
on an unassisted goal fourteen minutes into the 
game. Lester added the second goal just before 
Tie 
continued from page 20 
accounted for most of their 
scoring. Grbac ended the day 
17 -for-28 for 242 yards and two 
TO's. 
Michigan's final score came 
on the first play of the fourth 
quarter, as Grbac hit Derrick 
Alexander in the corner of the 
endzone from 30 yards out, two 
plays after a Jerome Bettis 
fumble at midfield. 
With the Irish leading 7-0 just 
before halftime, the Wolverines 
came back to tie the game 
again behind Grbac's passing. 
With a minute to go, Wheatley 
caught a screen pass at the ND 
25 where he sidestepped 
sophomore cornerback LaRon 
Moore and bolted to the end­
zone. The 6 7 -yard drive fea­
tured just six plays, including a 
16-yard toss to Tony McGee and 
an 18-yarder to Alexander. 
As the teams headed to the 
locker rooms, Irish fans right­
fully thought their team should 
be ahead 21-0, at least 17-0. 
But fumble-itis plagued Notre 
Dame all day, paralyzing two 
offensive drives and leading to 
Michigan's first score. 
On Notre Dame's first posses­sion, Lake Dawson caught a 24­yarder, but the hit applied by cornerback Alfi Burch jarred the ball loose and Michigan's Marcus Walker recovered. 
In the second quarter, tail­back Reggie Brooks and flanker Mike Miller botched the exchange on a tricky reverse called by Lou Holtz at the Michigan 21. It thwarted a drive that started at Notre Dame's 20 and included some strong running from Brooks and sophomore Lee Becton. 
Brooks, however, continued 

to prove himself as a legitimate 
force in the Irish backfield. The 
senior logged 69 yards on 13 
Indiana Auto Insurance 
Our good rates may save )U.l money. CaU t0raqoore9-5, 289-1993. Office near camJ:l.IS. 
----------------1 
among the nation's elite against UIC. 
Sophomore midfielder Jason Fox got the Irish on the board 30 minutes into the game on a rebound of his own miss. Less than two minutes later, senior Kevin Pendergast scored on a penalty shot. 
The flood gates opened in the second half. 
Senior Brendan Dillman and sophomore Keith Carlson each scored a pair of goals and Jack Elliot added one of his own as the Irish doused the Flames. 
Carlson scored on an assist from Dillman at the 51:28 mark and then scored again less than 
carries, including a 20-yard staggering flurry that resulted in Notre Dame's first TD. 
With 5:22 remaining in the first period, Brooks took the option pitch right and spun away from two Wolverines in the backfield. He spun to break another tackle at the five, and using his hands to keep afoot, staggered into the endzone and collapsed like a drunken sailor. 
Jerome Bettis, who ran 15 times for 82 yards, scored the other Irish touchdown, rum­bling in from two yards out in the fourth quarter as the Irish came back to within 17-14. 
After starting things off for the Irish, Brooks also ended things on a questionable run called by Holtz with around :46 remaining and the score knotted at 17-17. 
Holtz, criticized for his use of the clock late in losses two years ago against Stanford and last year against Tennessee, gave an explanation for running Bettis on a first-down draw, then giving to Brooks on second before finally airing it out, first a. 
"We ran it first to see what the coverage was," said Holtz, who wasn't sure what to expect from Moeller's defensive strat­
egy. 

"They had mixed up their coverages pretty well. In the first half and the third quarter, they blitzed us an awful lot. 
Hey Petie 
Happy Birthday! 
Some Birthday Reminders: 
1. 
No Flickin' in publici 

2. 
Stay out of the Alohaf 

3. 
Watch out for snooping women on horseback! 


Love, E. 
P.S. Have fun explaining 
the end of the half on an assist from freshman Ragen Coyne. 
The second half, saw the Irish attempt triple the number of shots on goal they had in the first half, but the Wisconsin Green-Bay defense was able to end the game without any further scoring. 
Against Rutgers the Irish followed the football team's example, by clearly outplaying thier opponent, but settling for a tie. 
Scarlet Knight goaltender Saskie Weber lived up to her reputation, stopping all but one of the fifteen Irish shots on goal. 
The scoring game early as Coyne headed in a pass from Jodi Hatwig eight minuted after the start. Rutgers answered less than a minute later, on a deflection from a corner kick. 
After the weekend's games Notre Dame's record stands at 2-1-1. 
30 seconds later. 
Dillman then scored twice within a four minute span and Elliot closed out the scoring with less than four minutes left in the game. 
"It was good to score goals," Irish coach Mike Berticelli said. "We scored good goals and kept constant pressure on their defense." 
The Irish fired 36 shots on goal and UIC goalie Brian Boll collected 10 saves. 
Notre Dame's defense allowed the Flames only four shots on goal and goalkeeper Bert Bader had three saves on the way to his 12th career shutout . 
Then in the last eight minutes, they didn't seem to blitz, so what we wanted to do was find out what the coverage was. We ran a play hoping that we could pop it out. We came close to popping it out." 
On second down, said Holtz, "We ran it to get a first down." However, the lengthy huddle and Brooks' inability to reach the sidelines put the possibility for an Irish victory virtually out of reach. 
Two penalties pinned the Irish back and doomed their hopes. Miller returned Eddie Azcona's punt to the ND 46 and would have put Craig Hentrick nearly in reach to win it, but a holding call on the play pinned Notre Dame back to their own 12. 
On second down, the Irish hurried to get the play off and got flagged for an illegal proce­dure, which cost them a first down Brooks would have had. The play also cost them pre­cious time, as Holtz didn't real­ize the new NCAA rule which keeps the clock winding after the ball has been moved follow­ing a penalty. 
Although he said he was aware of the rule, it didn't click in Holtz's head at the time. "I had no idea the clock was run­ning," said Holtz, who conferred with Mirer on the sidelines as precious ticks ran off. 
"Now I know why fans were booing after the game," Holtz meekly replied. 
SUGGESTS TI-W MEMORIAL 
CCNfRIBLmONS BE MADE 1011-f AMERICAN CANCER 
~IETV •• 
-words that mean people 
want to honor a loved one 
and want to help conquer 
cancer. Send a Memorial 
Gift to your local ACS Urut. 


CLUB 23 
On Notre Dame Ave. and S.R. 23 
Now Club 23 Subs for Lunch! Free Delivery All Day 
234,4015 
Open lla.m.... 2 p.m. 
Weekly Specials 

$3QQ 60 "ouncers" Lunch Special ... $200 7" Subs Quarter Night $2°0 60 "ouncers" $150 "Around the World" Night Live Music 
CLUB 23 
MONDAY SEPT.14  
CABINET OF DR. CALIGARI  7:00  
Th: cllliic film ofGerman Exj~mionism  
CAT PEOPLE (1942)  9:00  

Th: ooginal tbriller, afascinatiJll ex~rim:nt in suspen;e 
TlJ"PSDAY SEPT. 15 
JEZEBEL 7:00 
Beue Davis stm in this 1938 fdm direcied by Wil!Wn Wyler 
SHOOT THE PIANO PLAYER 9:15 
Frm:ru Truffaut's tbriller ci til Fre~b New Wave 
FRIDAY &SATURDAY SEPT. IS &19 
ROADSIDE PROPHETS 
7:30 &9:45 Adam Horovitz a00 JOO!! Do: stlrin this m<Xtrn road movie 



Today 
Monday, September 14, 1992 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WAITERSON • 
Vll-ltN ~OJ LOOK AT M~, ITS ClEAR \1\t>.\ M~ GH\E.S QJ~\~1~ 11\~ 
E.'JC>LIJT\0~1\R'{ PERITCT\0~ OF EARTI\L'\ l)l{t>., . 
~\ 
~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 London sight so F.D.R.'s 28 Copying successor
1 Beanery machine 51 A Kennedy potable in-law30 Kin of an atoll5 Young haddock 52 Mulligrubs31 The "Boot" 10 Soc. founded 54 Laugh or fence
32 Street show 55 Sleeper's

by Bergh 34 G.l. Jane 14 Site of the first rouser
Olympics 37--quanon 
&o Russian city (necessity)15 Huxley's "-­61 Lake Malawi's Barren Leaves" 38 Cabinet Dept. 

old namesince 1862 16 Framer of Roger 

62 African shrub 

Rabbit 39 Vikki from El Paso 
&3 Skin blemish 17 Chronometers 64 Blemishes on40 Entrepreneur19 Item marked 

pd. cars
Turner &50odles
41 Moreno and 20Van Gogh Hayworth

painted here 43 Attractive gal 
21 Puck's Irish DOWN counterpart 
44 Savoir--­
1 Kind of port or 23 Unit of work 46 Killer whales plane 2&"-the 47 Fireplace shelf 

2--Baba ramparts ..." 48 He overacts 
3 Vigor's companion 4 On a cruise 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 5 Fence straddler &Gladden 7 Aerial bombs &Chemical 25 Type of clock 45 Former German 53 Silent one 
ending state
27 Whirring sounds 54 Lennon's "­

• 
9 Scorn 47 Actress from Do You Sleep?" 
29 Front6n call 
10 Type of light N.Y.C.
32 Badgerlike 56 Soap ingredient 
11 It fits in a fob 48 Actor Buchholz 
honey lover 
57 Wave, in Spain 
12 Site of Mayan 49 Soprano Gluck ruins 33 Turkish title 

et al. 58 Not pro 13 Little colonist 35 Nobelist for 
52 He played 59 Kind of board or
18 Substitute, in Peace: 1987 
Sonny Corleone chain
law 

3& Surfer's surface 22 Gaze at 
39 Mean mongrel amorously 
Get answers to any three clues
41 Marriage, e.g. 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
42 Hibernia 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
shoelaces 43 Humorous 


Please take the time to register to vote. This week you can register at the North and South Dining Halls during lunch and dinner. 
-The Observer 
Sports 

• 
' 
....... 
page 20 

Mike Scrudato 
Random Thoughts 
Ties are for SYRs, not football games 
Michigan 17, Notre Dame 17. It sounds like a partial score, like the game isn't quite over. 
That is how everyone feJt as they left Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday afternoon, and how most still feel as they are reading this. 
The game was at its emotional peak, and then it just stopped. The players walked off the field, but they didn't seem like they wanted to leave. Some fans booed, others clapped politely, but none were really sure what to do. 
There were those who checked the scoreboard to make sure that it wasn't only the third quarter was winding down as Rick Mirer and Lou Holtz talked things over on the sidelines. 
When it comes down to it, nothing was resolved on Saturday. The score was tied when the Irish Guard clumsily marched on to the field for the pregame pageantry, and it will remain that way forever. 
There is no reason why anyone remotely involved with the game­should have left unhappy with the outcome. 
In college football, where every game is so crucial, there is no place for ties. If two teams are going to play their hearts out for sixty minutes, there should be a winner. Even if it takes a few extra minutes to decide it. 
Under the current system of determining the national champion, a loss almost eliminates a team from title contention, but a tie throws a team into a large gray area. Like fans and players, the polls are not sure how to deal with a tie. 
This is demonstrated by this week's Associated Press Top 25, Notre Dame dropped four spots to seventh. while Michigan remained sixth. 
This makes no sense, and history proves it. In 1966, the top-ranked Irish played number-two Michigan State to a 10-10 deadlock. At the end of the season, this was the only blemish on either team's record, but Notre Dame was awarded the national championship because they were ranked first going in to the game with the Spartans. 
But, in 1992, how can the polls be expected to handle a tie correctly, when they can't even pick a single national champion. 
The only thing that is definite is that after Saturday, the Irish are ranked seventh because in the eyes of the polls, Michigan's tie was better than Notre Dame's. 
Who knows what it will take for them to finish the season on top? 
Under the current system, the best Notre Dame can do is win the rest of its games, finish 11-0-1 and hope it is good enough. 
One thing that Saturday's game did demonstrate was the two flaws of college football, the lack of an overtime and the ineffectiveness of the poll system. 

INSIDE SPORTS 
liMen's soccer explodes against UIC see page 18 
•Edberg, Seles repeat at U.S. Open see page 17 
IIChavez defeats camacho 
seep~e1~ 
Monday, September 14, 1992 

Notre Dame, Michigan battle to a tie 
BY JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
It was a masterpiece of inconsistency. 
Notre Dame and Michigan filled the space between T.V. time outs with a game marked by big plays and big turnovers. 
Neither team deserved to win and neither team deserved to lose. And that's the way it ended, in a bitter 17-17 tie. 
"I can't remember the last time I was involved in a tie," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "It doesn't seem like the game is over." 
With the revelling fans basking in the late summer sunshine, and two of the nation's best teams ready to tangle, the stage was set for a classic college football game. 
In many ways it was a classic, and in 
Volleyball wins two in MCC-MAC Challenge 
BY WOODY B. PIER Sports Writer 
Victories always look the same in the standings, but on the floor, one night's win can look completely different from the next night's. Just ask anyone who watched the Notre Dame volleyball team sweep two matches in this weekend's MCC-MAC Challenge. The Irish struggled in overcoming Ohio 15-8, 15-7, 16-14 on Friday night, only to come back and cruise past a much stronger Western Michigan squad 15-9, 15-8, 15-11 on Saturday night. 
Irish head coach Debbie Brown was disappointed after Friday night's match. 
"It was a vary sloppy match on our part," Brown said. "We had a breakdown in fundamentals. We didn't pass well and we didn't serve well. I'm happy with a win, but I was not pleased with our execution." 
Both teams set the tone for the match 
'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.:. with several errors and mis timed pIa ys 
early in game one. Finally, with the Bobcats leading 4-2, the Irish woke up and produced a seven point run fueled by three Christy Peters kills along with two blocks by Cynthia May and one by Peters. The Irish won despite seven service errors for the game. 
Notre Dame cut down somewhat on the errors in game two, but for a time had trouble defending Ohio's quick hits, especially by Glen Fanelly. The outside 
see V-BALUpage 15 
many ways it was a clinker. 
From the opening coin toss, it was clear that something strange was going to happen. 
After Notre Dame won the toss and deferred its choice to the start of the second half, Michigan decided to defend the south goal rather than receive the opening kickoff, essentially giving the Irish the ball at the start of both halves. 
"It was a blunder," Michigan coach Gary Moeller said. "I told our captains that if Notre Dame deferred, we should take the ball, but as the head coach I ac­cept the responsibility. I don't know that it made a whole lot of difference." 
Probably not, but it was an indication of weird things to come. On their opening drive, the Irish marched through the Wolverine defense, 
see SLOPPY /page 15 

Both teams succumb to crucial turnovers 
By JIM VOGL Assistant Sports Editor 
Irish quarterback Rick Mirer described the mood to a tee, or rather to a tie. 
"There were 60,000 people standing there and you could hear a pin drop," said Mirer after third-ranked Notre Dame tied sixth-ranked Michigan 17-17 Saturday afternoon. After the silence of the initial shock, a chorus of boos erupted in the stands of Notre Dame stadium. 
The game featured a surprisingly aggressive Irish defense, a typically strong rushing Irish offense, and a host of blunders from players and coaches on both sides. 
Much of the pre-game hype revolved around Notre Dame's soft defensive effort against a weak Northwestern squad. And with defensive leader Demetrius DuBose suspended for the game, many believed the Wolverines much-heralded backfield of Tyrone Wheatley, Jesse Johnson, and Ricky Powers would run rampant. 
Not so. 
In all, Michigan struggled to gain 142 yards on the ground in 35 plays. an average of just four yards per carry. 
"You just can't play defense conservatively," said surrogate defensive captain Pete Bereich, who noticed a much more lively spirit in his troops. While the Irish defense made mostly solo tackles last week, as Bereich observed, "whenever there was a tackle, there were always six or seven golden helmets around the guy ... There was a complete reversal of emotion (from last week.)" 
Notre Dame notched three clutch interceptions against Michigan quarterback Elvis Grbac, who only threw six all last season. Grbac appeared a bit careless at times, first being picked by Tom Carter in the endzone in the second quarter; then in the fourth quarter by Brian Ratigan at the Michigan 18; and on Michigan's next possession, with heavy pressure on a safety blitz by Greg Lane, by Jeff Burris at the ND 30. 
Although blunders in the Wolverines passing game cost them. it also 
see TIE/page 18 


The Observer/Jake Peters 

Senior Alicia Turner helped the Irish to two wins this weekend in the MCC-MAC challenge. 








