
1a.. ;o •<.>r.o £' ' Z Ulc. € , r.. r~ I A.l 


VOL. XXIV NO. 2 THURSDAY I JANUARY 16, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -Yugoslavia, at least as it has been known to the world until now, died Wednesday from wounds suffered in a bloody civil war. 
After the Soviet Union, it is the. second Slav-dominated fed­eration in a month to crumble at nearly an identical age ­victim of a history of hard feel­ings between its peoples and strivings for independence. 
The name Yugoslavia will continue to be attached to the remnants of this country, but it will be a far different place. 
For months before the European Community's recog­nition of Croatia and Slovenia, it was obvious the Yugoslav federation, founded in 1918, would not hold. Thousands of people were killed in its death throes. 
But the European Community delivered the fatal blow, with its 
• 
Recognition/ page 7 

• 
Bosnia I page 7 


unanimous declaration Wednesday that Croatia and Slovenia were entitled to be re­garded as independent coun­tries. 
Despite varying degrees of enthusiasm, from Britain's he­sitancy to Germany's relish, the EC declaration amounted to a statement by Europe's most rich and powerful that Yugoslavia no longer exists. 
Such declarations are not taken lightly. Once made, they are not taken back. 
"Yugoslavia is now in a state of dissolution," said Belgian foreign affairs spokesman Johan Verbeke. 
Almost no one rose to dis­agree -although the United States has yet to acknowledge Yugoslavia's dissolution. 
The government of Serbia, the largest republic, was silent. The federal government it dominates protested that the EC was infringing on its rights. It said it would continue its functions until a comprehensive solution to the crisis is found. 
However, the federal govern­ment is virtually powerless. 
After the EC decision, re­publics representing 7 million of Yugoslavia's 24 million peo­ple in the wealthiest parts of the country were recognized as new nations. 
Serbia, in an effort to inherit the Yugoslav property and standing, has pushed the for­mation of what it calls a new Yugoslavia -a smaller country excluding Croatia and Slovenia. 
It is unclear just what that would include. Two other re­publics, Macedonia and Bosnia­Hercegovina, have applied for 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Computers anyone? 
Salesman Jim Gardner describes to junior Chris Beaudet the various computer equipment available at the Notre Dame Computer Store. The store is located on the first floor of the Computer-Math building. 
EC recognition, but have not yet received it. 
Only Serbia and its small ally, Montenegro, have refused to apply for such recognition. 
But Serbs living in Croatia and other republics want to be included in the new Yugoslavia, and last week those in Bosnia declared their own independent republic. 
What eventually will happen to Macedonia and Bosnia still must be thrashed out inside Yugoslavia, and by the EC and the United Nations. 
Even if a new Yugoslavia could incorporate all of Bosnia and Macedonia, it would be a far different place than the previous federation. 
Lost are Slovenia's export in­dustries and Croatia's Adriatic coast that brought $2 billion a year in tourist trade. Bosnia has 30 percent unemployment, and government figures indicate that half of those who are working receive a minimum wage. Macedonia, too, is poor. 
Serbia's deputy foreign minis­ter, Dobrosav Veizovic, has said his republic does not intend to fight over the issue of EC recognition, but warned that it was "a serious blow to peace." 
While Bosnia's mix of Slavic Muslims, Serbs and Croats has so far avoided open conflict, there are disturbing signs it may be coming. About half its population is armed. 
Doubts are even emerging about the intentions of Serbia's loyal ally, Montenegro. Its premier is considering several options for his republic, includ­ing a plan to allow Montenegro to function as an independent country. 
That would cast away the fi­nal shadow of Yugoslavia, leaving Serbia alone, isolated and landlocked. 
Holocaust memorial opens 
BERLIN (AP} -The villa where top Nazis plotted the systematic extermination of 6 million Jews opens as a Holocaust memorial this weekend, taking visitors down a trail of unspeakable suffering. 
There already are memorials to the Holocaust victims, including the death camps themselves. But Berliners call this the first "central memorial" that tries to give a complete view of what happened at the hands of the Nazis. 
In giving the go-ahead for the memorial, to open Sunday at the Wannsee Villa conference building, the city council said on Oct. 17, 1990: "In Germany, there is still no central memorial in memory of the victims of the Holocaust." 
The council said the Wannsee Villa memorial, sponsored in part by the Jewish community, will both recall the victims and examine the culprits responsible for the Holocaust. 
• Demjanjuk I page 5 
Some Germans, however, are campaigning for a monument in the center of the German capital, saying it would be more accessible than the villa on the far southern edge of Berlin. 
The Wannsee memorial reminds visitors with affecting photographs and text that Germans from all walks of life aided Adolf Hitler's plans to annihilate Jews. 
"I say millions of culprits, although that may be somewhat exaggerated," said Kurt Schilde, 44, who works in the memorial's education division. 
"But we want to make clear here that fascism could function because, among others, the German police went along, the German army went along, the German railroad went along, the bureaucracy went along," he added. 
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
It's OK to act like a kid now and then 
Robert Lowell once said, "If youth is a de­fect, it is one that we outgrow too soon." 
College plays a major role in this process, taking young minds and fine-tuning them, preparing them to find a comfortable niche in society. Often, due to the many stresses found in college, we forget that basically we are still young. We lose the youthful energy that, if carefully harnessed, can push us to even greater heights. 
It is alright for all adults to regress a little every now and then and not take life so seriously. It will cause too much stress. We can't have a generation of people with prematurely graying hair or nervous conditions running things for the next thirty or forty years. 
Take, as an example, Peter Banning (Robin Williams) of the movie Hook. A small letdown as a film, it nonetheless makes an excellent campaign for being young at heart. Banning is a modern-day Lone Ranger, wielding a phone in a holster in place of a six-shooter and hiding behind the mask of a business that separates him from his wife and children. 
When his children are abducted by Cap­tain Hook, Peter's only chance to save them is to become again who he once was, the Prince of Youth, Peter Pan. At first, he completely refuses to believe the possibility of his spritely heritage, and refuses to be­lieve his life is anything less than completely satisfying. However, during the course of his struggle to face his past, Peter comes to realize how much his children mean to him, and how he has neglected them because of an all-consuming devotion to his work. 
In the end, Peter Pan saves the children and leaves a part of himself in Peter Ban­ning, changing his outlook on life. Banning becomes a better father, full of the childish energy and spirit that came to symbolize his 'alter ego', and one has the feeling that both his family and work will benefit from it. 
A similar analogy can be drawn at school. Many times, students become too concerned with the almighty letter grade. Many people stress too much about grades. Unfortunately, I'm no different, but maybe if niore emphasis is put on personal achievement and self-satisfaction instead of worrying about GPAs, we might approach school with a more relaxed, calm attitude and find performances increased. Its obvi­ous that stress and tension are not con­ducive to success. 
Additionally, some people are better at this than others, it is physically and men­tally healthy to blow off a little steam now and them. Go ahead, regress, be a kid again. You'll enjoy the time spent that way, and who knows what you may find when you come back. Learn a lesson from Hook. Find your youthful, less serious side and set him or her free once in a while to have some fun. You'll be glad you did. Peter did it and so can you. Now only if we could fly... 
The views are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Today's  taff  
News Frank Rivera Kelly Lynch  Production Kathy Fong Cheryl Moser  
Sports Rich Szabo  Scoreboard Mike Scrudato  
Business  VIewpoint  

Colleen Gannon Rich Riley 
Systems Harry Zembillas 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday, January 16, 1992 
FORECAST: 
Partly cloudy and very cold today with 
light snow toward evening. Snow 
showers likely tonight. Lows in the 
middle teens and warming. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City H L Athens 54 37 A~anta 61 30 Bertin 45 39 Boston 58 23 Calgary 30 12 Chicago 25 14 Dallas-Ft.Worth 48 36 Denver 39 -05 Honolulu 78 64 Houston 54 33 ndianapolls 38 08 London 45 41 Los Angeles 70 44 Miami Beach 79 56 New Orleans 49 38 New York 62 22 Paris 41 36 Philadelphia 66 25 Rome 54 30 San Diego 63 46 San Francisco 64 46 

Pressure 
H L ~ ~ rn EZ3 ~ ~ (t ~ ~ 
Tokyo 54 54 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW 
VIa Aaocllnd 
.. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Kenya permits first opposition rally 
•NAIROBI, Kenya -One month after legalizing multi­party politics, the government has granted permission for Kenya's first opposition rally in 26 years, newspapers re­ported today. The meeting is to be held Saturday by the Forum for the Restoration of Democracy at the same field in downtown Nairobi where police violently broke up 1990 gatherings organized by the then-illegal opposition. In December, President Daniel arap Moi succumbed to intense international and domestic pressure and returned Kenya to a multiparty style of government. The East African nation of nearly 23 million had been run by the Kenya African National Union since 1969, when the last opposition party was banned. The last legal opposition rallies were held in 1966. The Forum for the Restoration of Democracy, formed in August as a pressure group and helped spearhead the campaign to return Kenya to political pluralism, is the first opposition party to be officially registered and legalized. 
NATIONAL New AIDS study scheduled to begin 
•BOSTON -Encouraged by new research in chimps, doctors plan to start a major study soon to see whether high doses of antibodies can prevent the spread of AIDS from mothers to babies. The chimpanzee studies show that purified doses of antibodies taken from people who are infected with HIV can prevent the animals from getting the infection, even when they are exposed to large doses of the AIDS virus. 
OF INTEREST 
•Student 
body elections notice-A mandatory informational meeting for those interested in running for student body president/vice president will be held at 7 p. 

m. 
on Thursday, January 23 in the student government office {2nd floor LaFortune). Call 283-2032 if you have any questions. 


ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Washlng1on. D.C. 65 24 
:·..·: ::·.:. 
Sharpton seeks U. S. Senate spot 
•ALBANY, N.V. -The Rev. AI Sharpton said Wednesday he would seek the Democratic nomination for the U.S. Senate seat held by Republican Alfonse D'Amato. ''I'm running to stand up for those who are left out," Sharpton said outside the governor's mansion, where he was leading a protest over planned state budget cuts that could hurt the poor. Sharpton, an activist who gained notoriety by staging numerous protests against racism in the New York City, said he would make a formal announcement of his candidacy on Monday. Passing out free food to about 40 poor people outside the governor's mansion, Sharpton said he decided to run because "there's no one in the race to stand up for the poor. Sharpton is awaiting trial in Albany on charges that he filed a false state income tax return in 1987 and no return at all in 1986. Those charges were brought by Abrams. Sharpton criticized Gov. Mario Cuomo for not doing enough to help the poor. "Mario! Come on out and help us!" Sharpton shouted while doling out free food. 
CAMPUS Saint Mary's hosts guest artist recital 
•NOTRE 
DAME, lnd.-Mezzo soprano Joyce Farwell of Baylor University, Waco, Texas, and pianist Lee Thompson of Whitman College, Walla Walla, Washington, will present a guest artist recital at Saint Mary's College, Sunday, January 19 at 2:30 p.m. in the Little Theater. Admission is free. The program, which is sponsored by the Saint Mary's Department of Music, will include works by Purcell, Schumann, Debussy and Rorem. For more information, call 219-284-4632. 

• 
The Observer provides of interests free of charge as a public service. Of interests must be submitted to the Observer by 1 p.m. the day before publication. Of interests are for free, one time events of general interest. The Observer news department reserves the right to edit all entries. 


MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ January 15 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 382,771,340 231.85 n...--...._s,&f COMPOSITE • 420.77 .. DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,258.50 .. PRECIOUS METALS GOLD {} $ .50 to $354.70/oz. SILVER{Jr 6.1¢to$4.137/oz.  • In 1910: The U.S. annual defense budget was reported to be at a record high of $2 billion. • In 1916: Mexican soldiers of Pancho Villa's army killed 18 American citizens bound for work in mines near Chihuahua City. The soldiers responsible were condemned to death. • In 1939: President Franklin D. Roosevelt asked for an extension of the Social Security Act to more women and children. • In 1946: Joining a growing dissatisfaction of workers nationwide, over 200,000 went on strike Chicago·s meat-packing plants, causing the nation's meat output to fall by 75%. • In 1959: Cuban revolutionaries supplanted the government of Fulgencia Batista, replacing him with rebel leader Fidel Castro's choice of Manuel Urrutia as provisional President.  


~~ --~----------~--~---­
~inko'S·TliECOPY CENTER· Good, clean copies, color or b~w. Macs, FM etc..· ISI'l? SlATE RD.2.3 (2./9)27/-039~ 
..... 
Thursday, January 16, 1991 
Yeltsin: Russians suffering 'worst' economic crisis 
ST. PETERSBURG, Russia (AP) -Boris Yeltsin said Wednesday Russians are suffer­ing their worst economic crisis since World War II, and praised them for enduring the painful times "with their teeth clenched hard." 
During a visit to St. Petersburg, the Russian presi­dent promised to push through privatization of state-controlled industries and sympathized with shoppers who have been gouged by soaring prices. 
At practically every stop, he encountered angry citizens and workers. But he also found some support among the crowds that pressed around him to shout questions or comments. 
St. Petersburg Mayor Anatoly Sobchak, who accompanied Yeltsin throughout the day, wasn't so lucky. He was heckled and shouted down. 
At one point, a sympathetic Yeltsin took the microphone from Sobchak and tried to rescue him, saying: "You are here all of the time. I'm just here today, so let me talk." 
Yeltsin told the people what they wanted to hear. He criti­cized high prices while strolling through crowded markets, and he told them Russia was a proud country that eventually would no longer need aid from foreign countries. 
"Russia is free," he said. 
Yeltsin summoned memories 
or=====================================~o 

Applications are now being accepted for the position of 
Editor-in-Chief 1992-93 
Anyone interested in applying should submit a resume and a personal statement not exceeding five pages to Kelley Tuthill by 5 p.m., Friday, January 24, 1992. 
Further information is available from Kelley Tuthill at The Observer, 239-7471. 
KIN-li\0'5· YOU DON 'TEllER CLOSE HIN·I~o·.s ·YOU DON'T £VERVOU. 
KlN·I<O:S·MAKE.ME LOOK GOOD 
of the hard times during World War II, when this city-then called Leningrad -nearly broke under a 900-day Nazi siege that caused mass starva­tion. One of his first stops was to lay a wreath at a war memo­rial. 
"Not counting the Great Patriotic War, this is the hard­est time for everyone who lives in Russia," he said. "For seven years, Soviet leaders could not bring themselves to start such a reform. 
"If we had started them at least two or three years ago, we would have been out of this deep pit which we have dug for these 7 4 years." 
But Russians will persevere, he said. 
"On the whole people are sticking it out with their teeth clenched hard," he told re­porters. "They tell me that they will wait another six or eight months. By the end of the year, we are sure, economic stabi­lization will begin." 
Yeltsin has been stumping for his economic reforms since freeing price controls on most goods Jan. 2. 
Despite the hardship, he has vowed not to back away from the changes and has urged patience. He says his free­market policies need six to eight months to produce re­sults. 
The Observer page 3 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Snow descends upon campus 
In front of the Notre Dame Radiation Laboratory, Jim Nissley shovels the newly fallen snow that arrived back on campus as the Notre Dame community geared up for the new semester. 
UNITED NATIONS -Leaders of the 15 Security Council nations gather for an unprecedented summit Jan. 31 to recommend expanding the diplomatic and peacekeeping role of the United Nations and discuss international security. 
New opportunities have emerged for an innovative U.N. role in issues ranging from the environment and human rights to crisis management now that Cold War rivalries have ended and the Soviet empire has col­lapsed. 
Some observers say the ses­sion is likely to be a grandiose photo opportunity with scant results, but organizers say it 
~ will give a mandate to the new secretary-general, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to reshape the organization to better deal with the challenges of the decade. The United Nations has as­sumed a crucial position in me­diating peace talks, like those ending El Salvador's 12-year civil war. It is being relied on to dispatch peacekeepers, as in the case of Yugoslavia and Cambodia; to organize and monitor elections, and even to help administer countries, like Cambodia. After a session featuring brief speeches by all members, the council is to adopt a final declaration asking Boutros­Ghali to suggest ways to strengthen and enhance the 166-nation organization. What financial support will emerge is unclear. The world body continues in a money crisis. As of Dec. 31, 
U.N. officials say arrears to the general budget totaled $439 million -more than 40 percent of the annual budget of about $1 billion. Arrears to peace-
IN CLASS· KJN-KO'S· YDU REAlLY 
SMEMY·BOOM·BANG·.R.ATA-J>~T 
DAT-KJN·KO~·ITHINK 1LDVf 'fD!J . 
1"HANI<YA. 
:11\ANKYA 
/VE~MUCH 

keeping operations totaled more than $300 million. 
On the council are the five permanent members with veto power -the United States, Britain, China, France and Russia -and 10 members serving two-year terms ­Austria, Belgium, Ecuador, Hungary, India, Cape Verde, Japan, Morocco, Venezuela and Zimbabwe. 
British Prime Minister John Major proposed the summit and will preside. Britain also holds the rotating presidency of the council for January. 
President Bush, Premier Li Peng of China, French President Francois Mitterrand and President Boris Yeltsin of the Russian Federation will attend. 
It will give Yeltsin a chance to outline the problems and goals of the new Commonwealth of Independent States, which re­placed the Soviet Union. Crumbling of the Soviet Union is not an official summit topic, however, and will be addressed indirectly through discussion of security and disarmament is­sues. 
The meeting will also give U, a hard-liner who endorsed the brutal crackdown on democ­racy demonstrators in Tianan­men Square in 1989, an oppor­tunity to shake hands and min­gle with Western leaders who have pulled away because of China's human rights record. 
Invitations were issued only to Security Council members. Diplomats said privately that if an exception were made for any nation, like Germany, other countries would insist on being included, making the group unwieldy. 
JSTANLEY H. KAPlAN 
T2k£ Kaplan Or'TaUYourOwlcxs 
1717 E. South Bend Av_e. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272,-4135 
page 4 The Observer 
WASHINGTON (AP) -An American U-2 spy plane on a reconnaissance mission was lost at sea south of the demili­tarized zone between North Korea and South Korea, Pentagon officials said Wednesday. The fate of the pilot was unknown. 
The incident "was not due to a hostile act," Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said in a brief interview. 
The planes, which carry so­phisticated photographic and electronic reconnaissance gear, routinely monitor troop move­ments north of the demilita­rized zone between North Korea and South Korea, said a Defense Department official speaking on condition of anonymity. The missing plane was on such as mission, he said. 
"We're interested in monitor­ing activity around the DMZ," the official said. 
The plane dropped out of ra­dio and radar contact with U.S. military trackers over the Sea of Japan, U.S. officials said. The high-altitude jet went down off the country's east coast at 5:30 
a.m. EST, which is early evening in Korea. 
The Air Force planned to dis­patch search planes at day­break. The U-2 had taken off from and was scheduled to re­turn to Osan Air Base south of Seoul, said Maj. Barbara Carr of the Strategic Air Command. 
The plane was "conducting a routine mission in sovereign airspace of South Korea with that government's knowledge and approval," the Pentagon said in a statement. 
President Bush was notified of the crash while campaigning in New Hampshire, said White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. 
"They don't know why it went down," Fitzwater said. 
The fixed-wing aircraft car­ries a one-man crew and the Air Force lists its altitude ca­pability as "above 70,000 feet." The exact figure is classified. 
The U-2s, manufactured by Lockheed Aircraft Corp., are essentially powered gliders with wingspans of 103 feet; their range is more than 4,000 miles. 
The missing plane is a mod­ernized version of early U-2 planes first built in the 1950s. Thirty-seven of the U-2R air­craft have been produced in the past 12 years, the last delivered to the Air Force in October 1989. 
They are stationed around the world as detachments of the 9th Strategic Reconnaissance Wing out of Beale Air Force Base in California. 
The U-2 made headlines when Francis Gary Powers was shot down May 1, 1960, while on a reconnaissance mission near Sverdlovsk in the Soviet Union. 
The U.S. government initially said Powers had been on a me­teorological observation flight, but under Soviet pressure ad­mitted he had been on a spy mission. Powers spent 21 months in a Soviet prison be­fore being exchanged in 1962 for a Soviet spy. 
Thursday, January 16, 1992 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
New rules at Saint Mary's 
Clarification of the parietal revisions at Saint Mary's are posted prominently in LeMans Hall. The new rules took effect the first day of classes. 
NO-founded non-profit organization receives award 
Special to The Observer 
Fresh Start Surgical Gifts Inc., a non-profit community service organization founded by Notre Dame graduate Dennis Nigro, will receive a "Point of Light" award Saturday from President George Bush. 
Founded in 1986, Fresh Start provides reconstructive surgery to economically disadvantaged children and young adults af­flicted with physical deformi­ties. 
Doctors, nurses and volunteer support staff conduct surgical sessions every two months, waiving all fees and costs associated with the procedures. 
Five others with close ties to Notre Dame have joined Nigro in directing the San Diego­based agency. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president-emeritus, is chairman of the honorary board of directors, and Thomas Goode, a 1976 graduate, chairs the administrative board. 
Other Notre Dame graduates who serve on the board are James Holmberg (1978), John McCabe, Jr., ('64) and Theodore Schramm ('82). 
Flower Delivery 7 Days 
P@'S~ 0 flpttA 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets Be Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 1'21 9i\ 277.1291 
51400 31 Nort~ \; J South Bn IN 46637 P.._ Allw•ed Z4 IWI. 
:INTERESTED:IN BEING :A LECTOR AT: :tt.-u:: jp:W:IVJASS?: 
• 0 •••••••••••• 0 ••• 0 ••••• 
:::SIGN~ UP FOR::: 
•••••••••• 0 ••••• 0 ••••••• 
:AUDITIONS :IN: RM: 308 
:La.FO.RTu·:N··E::::::: 
• • • • • • 0 •• 0 •• 
o:A: iN:tt.te:stt.t:o:ENt: 
0 •• 0 •••••••••• 0 •••••••• 0 • 0 0 • 
:ACTIVITIES: OFFICE:
........................ 
::ey: FR:tDAY: :: 
................. ' .. 
.. . . .JANUARY·1·.·7·... 
. . . . . . . . . .. 
A board-certified reconstruc­
Nigro, a 1969 alumnus, has tive surgeon, Nigro is the 1992 attributed NO's longstanding recipient of the Notre Dame emphasis on graduates giving Alumni Association's Dooley something back to their com­Award, presented to a graduate munities as his inspiration for who is engaged in outstanding founding Fresh Start. humanitarian service. The award is named after Thomas Dooley, the Notre Dame alum­nus who provided health care to the poor in Southeast Asia. 
Fresh Start will receive the 671st "Point of Light" award 

% 

12 Month Certificate of Deposit 
Interest Paid at Maturity • $2,000 Minimum Deposit 
6.25% 
12 month IRA Certificate of Deposit Interest paid at maturity • $500 minimum deposit 
6.00% 
IRA Savings • Interest paid monthly • $100 minimum deposit 
Annual interest rates listed above are subject to change without notice. Substantial penalty for early withdrawal. Call today to see how you may qualify for credit union membership. 
0 
NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
(219) 239-6611 
Independent from the University of Notre Dame 
NCUA 
tiO'IIongiC,.c:ltiUD\OIIAdlriiiiiiiU1IIOD aUSGo"f•rlltUQIAgiellc, 
--~ ~-----------~--~ --~-~--------­
Thursday, January 16, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Court accepts documents alleging Demjanjuk was Nazi 
JERUSALEM (AP) -During an appeal hearing for John Demjanjuk on Wednesday, the Supreme Court admitted evi­dence that challenged the con­victed Nazi war criminal's claim to have been a POW during much of World War II. 
But the new prosecution evi­dence fell short of linking the retired Ohio auto worker with the Treblinka death camp in Nazi-occupied Poland. 
Demjanjuk, 72, was convicted in Jerusalem in April 1988 of being "Ivan the Terrible," a sadistic guard who operated the gas chamber at Treblinka where some 850,000 Jews died in 1942 and 1943. 
The Ukrainian-born Demjan­juk is appealing his conviction for crimes against humanity and against the Jewish people. He was sentenced to death. 
Prosecutor Michael Shaked submitted three documents ob­tained from German archives that allegedly show Demjanjuk was a guard at the Flossenburg concentration camp in Germany between October 1943 and Oc­tober 1944. 
"The material will make it possible for the court to see that the defendant served in the SS until the end of the war," Shaked said. "This will close the circle." 
One document shows that a man called "Demanjuk" was is­sued a pistol and rifle at Flossenburg on Oct. 18, 1943, Shaked said. 
A second paper lists 117 guards at Flossenburg, with Demjanjuk being number 44, the prosecutor said. 
He said a third document from Oct. 3, 1944, concerning the changing of the guards at the camp mentions Demjanjuk and cites his SS identity number ­1393. The SS was the unit that ran the Nazi concentration camps. 
"The serial number is like a finger print because it accom­panies the appellant throughout his service," Shaked said. 
Defense attorney Yoram Sheftel objected to the new evi­dence as "irrelevant," saying it had nothing to do with whether Demjanjuk was the guard Ivan, the basis on which he was con­victed. 
Demjanjuk was extradited from a suburb of Cleveland, Ohio, to Israel in 1986, nine years after the Justice Depart­ment moved to revoke his U.S. citizenship. 
Demjanjuk insists he is a vic­tim of mistaken identity. The new evidence challenges his claim that he spent most of the war as a German prisoner of war after being captured while serving in the Red Army in 1942. 
Led into the court in hand­cuffs, Demjanjuk said there were "a lot of pests here today" as photographers clambered about the dock. He silently listened to proceedings, 
Clarification 
An article about the Douglas G. Simon Family Scholarship Fund in Wednesday's Observer ended in mid-sentence. The end of the article reads as follows: "He returned to Simon and Sheridan in 1980 and continued practicing law until his death in 1983." The Observer regrets the error. 
W
e're working smarter, And there are others. Like the The BA II PLUS:M For business too. So you don't have 11-68, an advanced scientific that students, this is the one to get. It to work harder. solves up to five simultaneous equa­handles time-value-of-money and For us, it means an ongoing tions, performs complex numbers offers cash flow analysis for internal relationship with educators and and offers formula programming. rate of return (IRR) and net present 
professors, striving to understand value (NPV). Plus a whole lot more. No matter what your major, no matter what the course, there's a 11 scientific or business calculator that's right for you. Do the smart thing: make one of them a part of your professional personality now, and for the years to come. You'll be on your way to working smarter. Instead of harder. Try the entire line of11 scientific and business calculators at your local11 retailer. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
The 11-36X SOLAR, a general  
purpose workhorse powered by  
ANYLITE™ solar cells so you  
never need batteries.  
what's needed to help them make  
math concepts come alive.  
It means continually working  
with students like you, discovering  
firsthand what you expect from the  
calculator you select.  
The result? Calculators that  
are highly recommended by your  
teachers and peers. Calculators that  
are perfectly matched to your major  
and your coursework.  
The 11-81 is a perfect example.  
It offers the most comprehensive,  
easy-to-use graphing features avail­ 
able with extensive programming  
capabilities.  


translated into Ukrainian, and occasionally nodded or shook his head. 
The prosecution told the court it expected to submit more evi­dence within two to three weeks. Shaked said much of it was from Treblinka. 
Also, the submit­ted as evidence an SS personnel record of Ivan Marchenko. 
The defense, which maintains Marchenko and not Demjanjuk was the guard Ivan, did not op­pose this. It has submitted tes­timony from ex-Treblinka guards saying Ivan was named Marchenko and did not look at all like Demjanjuk. 
Sheftel renewed his claim that Demjanjuk was framed by Is­rael and the United States. 
He submitted documents to back this claim, including tes­timony he said was submitted to 
U.S. authorities in 1978, before his client was extradited to Israel, that said the guard Ivan was Marchenko, not Demjan­juk. 

Sheftel repeated his request that Demjanjuk be freed until the appeal is over. The five­judge panel is expected to rule on Sheftel's request within a few days. 
.....--------------------------------------~----­
page 6 The Observer Thursday, January 16, 1992 
Iraq can rebuild nuclear, biological and chemical weapons says Gates 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Despite 
damage from the Persian Gulf 
War, Iraq can rebuild its 
nuclear, chemical and biological 
weapons capacity within a few 
years, CIA Director Robert 
Gates told Congress Wednesday. 
Biological weapons produc­
tion could be brought back most 
quickly, "in a matter of weeks," 
Gates said at a hearing of the 
Senate Governmental Affairs 
Committee. Chemicals weapons 
could be produced almost 
immediately in modest 
quantities and production could 
be fully restored in a year or so, 
he said. 
Restarting the nuclear 
weapons program would take 
longer, he said, although 
adding, "We measure the time 
required in a few, rather than 
many, years." 
And Iraq is believed to still 
have "several hundred" Scud 
missiles, Gates said, adding, 
"We're having some difficulty 
finding them." 
"Iraq will remain a primary 
proliferation threat at least as 
long as Saddam Hussein re­
mains in power," he said in tes­
timony a day before the first 
anniversary of the start of the 
U.S.-led war on Iraq. 
The war, which resulted in a 
quick and decisive allied vic­
tory, has come under increasing 
criticism from those who say it 
failed to achieve many of its 
orrection 
The memorial Mass at 5:15 
p.m. today in Sacred Heart Church will be for Ernesto Al­varado, a student in the Mas­ter's of Science (MSA) program who died Dec. 29. A Mass for David Britton, also a student in the MSA who died over break, will be scheduled at a later date. The Observer regrets the error. 
A 
MEMORIAL 
TO THE 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
SOCIETY 
WILL HELP 
IN THE 
CONOUEST 
OF CANCER. 
TheMCAT 
Isln 
l2Weeks. 
I STANlEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Owx:es 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, IN 46637 
PHONE 219/272-4135 
goals -including shutting 
down the Iraqi threat. 
Gates said Saddam's rebuild­
ing effort will be hampered as 
long as international resolve to 
maintain trade sanctions on 
Iraq holds firm. 
Halting the spread of mass-destruction weapons is "America's new manifest des­tiny," said the committee chairman, Sen. John Glenn, D­Ohio. "Our goal must be to work more closely with other nations to achieve not just a new world order, but a more peaceful world order." 
Gates told the panel that the world continues to see "a steady and worrisome growth in the proliferation of advanced weapons." More than 20 coun­tries have, are suspected to have or are developing nuclear, chemical and biological arms and the means to deliver them, he said. 
Only China and the republics of the former Soviet Union now have the ability to target mis­siles on U.S. territory, and the threat of similar abilities by third-world countries is at least 
a decade away, he said. 
But the threat of shorter-range weapons is growing along a band from Libya 
through South Asia, he said. He 
mentioned China and North Korea as among the worst proliferators of nuclear and 
missile technology. 
The former Soviet republics are maintaining effective con­trol over their 30,000-warhead nuclear stockpile, he said. Traditionally, the Soviets had three "nuclear briefcases," satchels containing the codes to authorize use of nuclear weapons. Now there appear to be only two, in the hands of Russian President Boris Yeltsin and the interim military com­mander, Yevgeny Shaposhnikov. 
More troubling, Gates said, is the possibility of a brain drain of former Soviet nuclear scien­tists. While there have been news reports that experts have been offered jobs in countries including Ubya, or that nuclear materials are being traded on the black market, none of those reports have been confirmed, he said. 
Soviet scientists seeking to sell their expertise would most likely go to Cuba, India, Syria, Egypt or Algeria, nations which have had the most frequent sci­entific contacts with the re­publics, said Gates. 
North Korea poses the most urgent national security threat in that part of the world, Gates said. It is able to support nu­
clear weapons development 
from the mining of uranium to the reprocessing of reactor fuel to make plutonium. 
·embargo: 61% --r­
St<lp -_ 
&mbargo: 26°4---1.----; 
-· ~9 ~nSVIef!J2" --­
SOURCE: AP llONlil 1;004 Amerlcilnt ~Jllri. 2~b)i ~ Suf'ity ~ell GroLip of MeQa.·fS, Margin of~~~~npli119 emir is Plil• or iril~ua ~ pen:entage points. Numbers do not 8c:ld to 1oci duno roi.lnding. 
AP 
Help Prevent Birth Defects-The Nation's Number One 
Child Health Problem. 
<lp Support the 
Mar,ch of Dl·mes
I' 
BIRTH-DEFECtS fOUNDATION 
.-.-------------lllliiiiiiilliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiill... 
• 20-30 PAID STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE • 
• 
$5.10 per hour • meet new people 

• 
flexible evening hours • training 

• 
no experience necessary • real life experience 


Please join us for an informal 

OPEN HOUSE/INFORMATION SESSION 
Thursday, January 16th 4:00 -6:00pm at the Annual Fund Phone Center (Southeast comer of Badin Hall) 
If you have any questions, please call: Patty Studebaker 239-7938 or Kathy Webb 239-7241 
Spring Break Seminars 
March 8-14, 1992 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR ~('t_ -Service Learning at one of six ~-r sites in the Appalachian region "' · ­-One-credit Theology -Information meeting: Thurs., Jan. 23, 7:30 -8:00 
CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR -Explore the cultural richness of Chicago -Examines issues of diversity and related concerns -One-credit TI1eology or Sociology -Information Meeting: Thun., Jan. 23, 6:30-7:00 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Tire People's Rellolutions in Eastern Europe and tire So!liet Commonwtaltlr: A Searclr for Social, Economic, and Political Justice 
-Direct Contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -One credit Theology 
Information meeting: Thurs., Jan. 23, 7:00-7:30 PM 

Applications Available Now at CSC 
Wed., Jan. 29, 1992 
Center for Social Concerns 
ffie?C.lco Servlce p.,-ojecr/Semlnd.,­
-Three weeks in Oaxaca, Mexico May 11 to June 1, 1992 Oeaving time for summer work) 
Service-learning cosponsored by Maryknoll 
One credit Theology 
Spanish not required 
Information Meeting: Jan. 21, 1992 7:00PM at the Center 

Thursday, January 16, 1992 The Observer page7 
Bosnia-Hercegovina seeks independence 
SARAJEVO, Yugoslavia (AP)  with Croatia and Slovenia  Otherwise, he said, "we will  
-Bosnia-Hercegovina's turn  caused little stir on the historic  lose hundreds of thousands  
for independence will come  streets of Sarajevo, the capital.  dead, several hundred towns  
soon, Prime Minister Jure  Few Muslims, Serbs or Croats  destroyed and still end up with  
Pelivan said Wednesday, adding  had expected their explosive  the same thing."  
that reluctant Serbs must ac­ climate would pass muster with  Pelivan dismissed the Serbs'  
cept the inevitable.  the Europeans.  threat to scede as a political  
"European recognition of  "It's all the same to me," said  ploy that will lose its impact  
Croatia and Slovenia is part of a  Dadan Catovic, a Jew who owns  once world opinion begins to  
wider world process, and we  Costello's Pizzeria with two  take shape. He said the Serbs  
will be next," he said in an in­ Muslim friends. "We'll have  could not count on federal mili­ 
terview. "It is only natural that  problems either way. Do you  tary support.  
they come first, since they  have any green cards so we can  "I think the Yugoslav army  
asked before us."  go to America?"  has had bitter experiences in  
Pelivan said only war would  At his toy shop in the old  Croatia, and I don't believe  
prevent European nations from  Turkish quarter, Dejan  anyone wants more fighting,"  
according recognition. And, he  Ashkovic, a young Serb,  he said.  
said, none of Bosnia­ shrugged when told of the EC  But Pelivan worried that  
Hercegovina's three main  decision. "It makes no differ­ undisciplined Serbian army re­ 
communities -Muslims, Croats  ence to how I work, what I  servists might trigger hostile  
and Serbs ­wants a war.  earn. They decide, not me."  reactions from nervous Muslims  
"All groups are heavily  But political leaders expected  and Croats.  
armed," said Pelivan, an ethnic  hardened feelings in rural ar­ "Troop concentrations on our  
Croat, "but that is a good thing.  eas, where pockets of nationali­ territory are far higher than  
No one is willing to start  ties fear they might find them­ normal," he said. " We will  
anything. There is a balance of  selves on the wrong side of new  insist that reservists from  
fear that provides stability."  lines.  Serbia and Montenegro leave."  
Leaders of the largest party in  Radaovan Karadzic, head of  
Bosnia-Hercegovina, the  the Serbian Democratic Party,  The prime minister said the  
Muslims' Party of Democratic  said that Serbs would secede ­ political limbo was crippling the  
Action (SPA), echoed the prime  by force, if necessary -if the  republic economically. He said  
minister's optimism. They dis­ Muslim and Croat majority took  Serbia had embargoed  
missed threats from the Serbs  the republic out of Yugoslavia.  shipments of food and basic  
to secede.  staples to Bosnia-Hercegovina  
"We will be recognized within  In an interview, Karadzic  on false grounds that supplies  
our present borders," said Irfan  showed a reporter what he  were being re-exported to  
Ajanovic, an SPA leader and  called legitimate Serbian bor­ Croatia. "I believe this is politi­ 
vice president of the federal  ders, zigzagging his finger all  cal," he said.  
Yugoslav Parliament. "We won't  over an ethnic map of Bosnia­ 
give up one village, one river,  Hercegovina.  Severed rail and road links  
one tree." The European Community's  If the republic left Yugoslavia,  have paralyzed factories, in­cluding Yugoslavia's largest  Getting settled  
failure to recognize Bosnia­ he said, the three communities  steel mill. Tourists have van­ Two Saint Mary's juniors, Kate Walsh (left) and Colleen Rhattigan, 
Hercegovina Wednesday along  would have to split up.  ished.  unpack their suitcases upon return from winter break.  

Slovenia and Croatia win European recognition 
ZAGREB, Yugoslavia (AP) -Some leading Serbs, however, Germany," which led the drive The economic hardship and Slovenia and Croatia won said recognition could help New independent for European recognition. disenchantment have under­European recognition them by leading inevitably to Croatian radio declared: "This mined support for Serbian
republics
Wednesday, dealing a death the creation of a smaller, Serb­
is a day that will go down in the President Slobodan Milosevic, blow to the long-crumbling led Yugoslavia. history of the Croatian people who has responded by toning Yugoslav federation seven Politically, the recognition as a major event." down his hawkish stance. months and thousands of announced Wednesday by the But there were signs of sad­Bosnia and Macedonia have deaths after the two republics 12-member European ness, as well. Thousands of also asked the European declared independence. Community in Brussels, windows were illuminated by Community to recognize them 
The Serb-dominated federal Belgium was a victory for candles in memory of the as independent states as well. government in Belgrade Croatia and Slovenia, which de­Croatian dead. But ethnic tensions in Bosnia protested, but people in the two clared independence June 25. "For many of my buddies, and objections by community new states rejoiced as much as Mter a brief war in Slovenia, recognition came too late," said member Greece to recognizing their suffering from which claimed a few dozen Admir Kazaferovic, 23, a Macedonia -because of histor­Yugoslavia's civil war allowed. lives, the federal army with­mournful Croatian soldier. ical disputes -were expected 
The practical effect of drew and focused its might on The Serb-dominated federal to dissuade many members Europe's recognition on efforts Croatia, where since early July government, stripped of most from giving recognition. to end the war between Croat it has helped Serb rebels cap­power by the republics, By Wednesday evening, all 12 forces and Serb irregulars and ture about a third of the repub­protested that recognition went EC nations had recognized the Serb-dominated federal lic's territory. counter to the "sovereign rights Slovenia and Croatia. The EC army was not clear. President Milan Kucan of of Yugoslavia." nations are Germany, Belgium, 
Fighting has subsided be­Slovenia, who turned 51 Serbian Foreign Minister Britain, Denmark, France, cause of a U.N.-mediated truce, Wednesday, described recogni­gathered in Jelacic Square, Vladislav Jovanovic assailed Greece, Ireland, Italy, which held Wednesday in tion of his nation bordering waving Croatian flags and Germany. Luxembourg, Netherlands, Croatia for a 13th day. Austria, Italy and Hungary as singing patriotic songs. "It is deplorable that a coun­Portugal and Spain. 
But some European officials "the best birthday present Thousands of people packed a try that was divided for 50 Others which have extended worried that recognition of ever." cathedral for a Mass of years . . . should try to destroy recognition are Poland, Croatia and Slovenia could pro­As night fell in Zagreb, the thanksgiving, and Croatian TV our country's unity by promot­Hungary, Bulgaria, Austria, voke Serbia into fighting harder Croatian capital, automatic broadcast a new song to com­ing inequality and unilateral se­Norway, Estonia, Latvia, to control Serb enclaves in wea.t~uh., were fired into the air memorate the event: "Danke cession," he said in an interview Lithuania, Iceland, Malta, San Croatia and other republics. to celebrate and 1,000 people Deutschland," or "Thank You, published Wednesday in the Marino, Switzerland, Ukraine 
French daily Le Monde. and the Vatican. Sweden said it 
Serbia, long the dominant would do so Thursday. 
Yugoslav republic, has beeQ hit The United States, saying it 
hard by European sanctions. seeks a cease-fire in Croatia 
The European Community con­and an overall settlement, has 
siders Serbia the aggressor in withheld recognition of the two 
the war. republics. 
Memorial Mass
Applications Are Now Available at the 
for 
Center for Social Concerns 
Deadline; Februazy 7 
Ernesto David Alvarado 
Eight weeks of service work $1400.00 Scholarship 
Sacred Heart Church 5:15pm
Information night-January 28th at Center for Social Concerns 
Thursday, January 16th, 1992 

The Observer
pageS Thursday, January 16, 1992 
Female serial killer admits to seven; describes the shooting of first victim 
DELAND, Fla. (AP) -An 
admitted prostitute who told of 
killing seven abusive clients 
repeatedly shot a businessman 
when her lust for power over 
men took "a vengeful turn," a 
prosecutor charged Wednesday. 
The defense countered that Aileen Wuornos -labeled by investigators as the nation's first female serial killer to be brought to trial -was a terrified woman defending herself from bondage, rape and degradation. 
Wuornos, 35, has been charged in five roadside-pickup slayings in central Florida over 13 months in 1989-90. 
In the first case brought against Wuornos, State Attorney John Tanner contended in opening arguments she shot Richard Mallory four times "because she didn't want to leave a witness." He was the first to be killed. 
"She liked control. ... She'd been controlling men for years and she took everything Richard Mallory had, including his life," Tanner told jurors. 
Wuornos, jailed since her arrest in January 1991. was charged with first-degree murder in the death of Mallory, 51, whose decomposed body was found near Ormond Beach, north of Daytona Beach, in December 1989. 
Prosecutors said they will seek the death penalty if she is convicted. Florida has three 
women on death row, but has 
never executed a woman. 
Assistant Public Defender Tricia Jenkins depicted her client as a frightened woman who made her living off prostitution but who had been often abused by clients. 
"The frequency with which she met physical abuse was escalating," she said. "Time after time after time, she was raped. Time after time after time, she was beaten up and wasn't paid." 
Finally, Ms. Jenkins said, Wuornos armed herself. 
Mallory, who owned an electronics repair shop in Clearwater, picked up Wuornos in his Cadillac near Tampa on a rainy night in late November 1989, the public defender said. 
Mallory later "opened a nightmare for her," she said. "You will hear evidence of bondage, rape, sodomy and degradation." 
She said Wuornos then shot him. He was wounded and cursing, the lawyer said, and Wuornos "shot him again ... she was terrified." 
The prosecutor said Wuomos' videotaped statement to investigators gives several versions of what occurred. After she had sex with Mallory, he paid her but she became concerned he would want his money back, so she ordered him out of the car at gunpoint and killed him, Tanner said. 
"Then she changed her 
story," he said, "and said she shot him in the car. ... She told the deputy she shot him dead because she didn't want to leave a witness.... She didn't want to be caught." 
Ultimately, Tanner said, "She liked control. ... Her appetite for lust and control had taken a vengeful turn." 
Mallory's body was found 12 days later, covered with a carpet remnant in a wooded area. 
Wuornos' rambling statements to investigators will be shown in court even though the defense contends the admissions were coerced. She contends she killed the men in self-defense. Some were first wounded and then shot repeatedly so they wouldn't be able to identify her, she admitted. 
She said Mallory backed away from her after she shot him once. 
Then, "I figured, well, if I help the guy and he lives, he's gonna tell on me, and I'm gonna get (arrested) for attempted murder, all this jazz. And I thought, well, the best thing to do is just keep shooting him." 
The presiding judge, Circuit Judge Uriel Blount, said he hoped the trial would be finished in a couple of weeks. 
Trial dates in the four other slayings have not been set. Investigations continue in the slayings of two other men she told police she killed. 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Braving the cold 
Law student George Fish trudges to class despite the dropping
AmericanRed Cross + 
temperatures and inclement weather at Notre Dame this week . 
•
++ NOTRET~~~:~~5ismRE "STICK WITH THE ONE YOU KNOW" ++ 
..on the campus.. • OPEN MONDAY-SATURDAY 9-5 ._. • 
• ~-1 • • Mci~;1i'il1~ 1,...1•1 r:/~ 1•1 •
• ....... ~~..~TJ· • 
• SCOTCH SCOTCH POST-IT •
t t
WALLSAVER MOUNTING NOTES 
•  POSTER TAPE  SQUARES  3-PACK  •  
•  1.87  .72  .99  •  
•  . ,  *..SPECIAL HOURs:·:wEDS 1/15& THURS 1/16 9-7*  •  

Business 
Thursday, January 16, 1992 page 9 
Low mortgage rates spur refinancing wave in U.S. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Eliza­beth Treanor of Vienna, Va., is spending the cash from her mortgage refinancing on law school tuition and "more treats for my dobermans." 
Jeff Francione, a life insur­ance underwriter, will spend $50 to $100 more a month after he refinances, but the 30-year mortgage on his Palatine, Ill., home will shrink to a 15-year loan. 
Dale Keener of Centerville, Va., is converting his mortgage from a floating to a fixed rate and paying off his credit card bills. His goal is to get ready for college tuition bills for two children in September. 
All three homeowners are part of a refinancing wave sweeping the nation, spurred by the lowest mortgage rates in nearly two decades. There are as many reasons as borrowers for refinancing and, with the increasing innovation of len­ders, nearly as many ways to refinance. 
No matter what the motive or method, all the refmancings are either helping the economy in the short term or improving its ability to resist ills in the future, according to economists. 
"It doesn't matter what you do with it," said economist Richard Peach of the Mortgage Bankers Association of Amer­ica. "It's money you have that you didn't have before .... It's all good for the economy." 
Middle-aged couples, looking toward retirement, are shorten­ing their mortgage terms at little or no additional monthly cost. The change builds their equity faster and saves them thousands of dollars in interest. 
For example, interest on a $100,000 mortgage, at 8.5 per­cent, totals $176,800 over 30 years. Interest on a 15-year mortgage for the same amount, at 8 percent, totals $72,017. That's nearly $105,000 in sav­ings for an additional monthly payment of $187. 
Younger families, planning to buy bigger houses in a few years, are taking out "5-25" and "7 -23" mortgages. For the first five or seven years, they save up to a full percentage point over the rate on normal 30-year mortgages; such fami­lies hope to move before the in­terest rate rises for the balance of the mortgage. 
Holders of adjustable-rate loans expecting to keep their homes are converting to fixed­rate mortgages. They are pay­ing somewhat more each month 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Two former presidential advisers ­one Republican and one Demo­crat -both told Congress on Wednesday that it would be wrong to rush through a pack­age of middle class tax cuts to spur the economy. 
Martin Feldstein, who served as chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers during the Reagan administra­tion, and Charles Schultze, who held the same job under Jimmy Carter, both said they believed the economy would recover in the next few months without resorting to a big tax relief package. 
If that assessment proves wrong, both economists said they favored a limited package focused on an investment tax credit for business rather than broad-scale tax relief for indi­viduals. 
"There is a grave danger that opening up the budget agree­ment in an election year would launch a counter-productive 
Box office sales hit 15-year low 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Despite a record holiday box office, the number of movie tickets sold in the United States last year hit a 15-year low of 968 million. 
The final box office tally for 1991 was $4.85 billion, down about 3 percent from the $5 billion take the previous year, when 1.06 billion tickets were sold, according to figures com­piled this week by Daily Variety. 
A 5.5 percent rise in the aver­
age ticket price helped to mini­
mize the damage and the 1991 
dollar receipts were still the 
third-highest on record. 
Daily Variety said the national 
average ticket price rose from 
$4.75 in 1990 to $5.01 last 
year. 
By mid-December, ticket sales 
were off 10 percent. But the 
year-end resurgence led by 
such hits as "Hook" and 
"Father of the Bride" narrowed 
the gap to 8 percent. 
Daily Variety said several factors could explain the drop in movie attendance, including lower quality films and the re­cession. 
Former presidential advisors caution Senate against tax cuts 
Despite a record holiday box office, the number of movie tickets sold in the U.S. hit a 15 year low in 1991. "Father of the Bride" starring Steve Martin was part of the year-end resurgence that reduced the drop in ticket sales to 8 percent. Martin also currently stars in "Grand Canyon." 
bidding war on tax cuts, in­crease the long-term budget deficit and do great harm to the nation's long term growth prospects," Schultze told a hearing of the Senate Banking Committee. 
"Once the recession is over this country needs a tax in­crease, not a tax cut" in order to eliminate the federal budget deficit and thus boost the na­tional savings rate, said Schultze, who now is a senior fellow at the liberal Brookings Institution. 
Both Schultze and Feldstein said they believed that interest rate reductions by the Federal Reserve should be enough to in­crease consumer and business demand in coming months and get the economy growing again. 
Feldstein, however, criticized the Federal Reserve for moving too slowing to cut rates in the past year. He said the it had kept growth of the principal measure of the money supply, M-2, rising too slowly for the past two years. 
"The Federal Reserve could have achieved faster growth of M-2 and therefore probably could have avoided the recent downturn by cutting interest rates more aggressively earlier in 1992," said Feldstein, now an economist at Harvard. 
Feldstein and Schultze's cau­tionary remarks about tax cuts were not universally held dur­ing a hearing Wednesday before the Senate Banking Committee, one of several congressional committees exploring what the government should do to revive the stagnant economy. 
Thomas Juster, an economist with the Survey Research Cen­ter at the University of Michi­gan, took issue with analysts who contend that tax cuts would have little impact on consumers because they would take so long to be enacted. His center conduct's a closely watched monthly survey of con­sumer sentiment. 

in exchange for the security of a steady payment. 
Mortgages tied to the one­year Treasury bill rate are ad­justing to around 7 percent and many homeowners find it de­sirable to lock in the lowest fixed rates since 1973. Last week, fixed rates averaged 8.23 percent, according to the Fed­eral Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 
The mortgage bankers group, representing more than 2,200 savings institutions, banks, mortgage companies and other lenders, estimates 1.5 million to 
1.6 million of the nation's 60 million homeowners refinanced their mortgages last year, pumping an additional $10 bil­lion into the economy. 
That does not count the 11 million or so homeowners with adjustable-rate mortgages who are enjoying lower rates just because interest rates have fallen, Peach said. 
The boom is still gathering momentum. Some swamped companies have temporarily stopped lending while others take days to return calls from prospective borrowers. Refi­nancings at the end of Decem­ber were up sixfold from March 1990, according to the associa­tion. 
More and more refinancers, according to anecdotal reports, are like Francione and Keener, strengthening their personal balance sheets rather than in­creasing their spendable in­come. 
"I haven't seen anyone doing anything frivolous," said Mick Guttau, president of the Treynor State Bank in Treynor, Iowa. 
AP File Photo 
Charles Keating, Jr., whose failed Lincoln Savings and Loan epitomized the national thrift scandal, was indicted Wednesday on federal charges of bankruptcy fraud, wire fraud and conspiracy. 
Car dealers respond to slump with new 'U.S.A.' campaign 
(AP) -Some auto dealerships around the country are re­sponding to slumping sales, layoffs and President Bush's trade mission to Japan by wav­ing the American flag. 
"Buy American -Whether it's GM, Ford or Chrysler," a Chicago-area Chevy dealer pro­claims in a full-page newspaper ad featuring the stars and stripes and drawings of Ameri­can workers. 
Even the Glendale Nissan dealership west of Chicago is appealing to patriotism. 
"NOW Made in USA!" de­clares its ad for the Japanese brand. Most of the Nissan Sen­tras sold in this country roll off an assembly line .in Smyrna, Tenn. · 
"A lot of people do want to buy American products," said Terry Anderson, general man­ager of Glendale Nissan. "If they like my product, I tell them to look at the serial number. If it starts with a "1" it was made in this country, if it starts with a "j" it's from Japan." 
The industry obviously needs help. Early January sales of domestically made vehicles fell 
6.2 percent from depressed 1991 levels. Before Bush's trip to Japan, General Motors an­nounced plans to close 21 plants and eliminate 74,000 workers by 1995. 
"The car industry is hurting here and not in Japan," said George Gainer, general man­ager of Perimeter Ford in At­lanta, Ga. 
Gainer said he also cut prices so customers won't think the ads contain an empty message. 
"Especially in these economic times, people are thinking about their budgets as well as their patriotism," Gainer, said. 
In suburban Detroit, West Bloomfield Cadillac dealer Frank Audette went on the ra­dio urging listeners to buy an American car even if it isn't a Cadillac. 
Whether these appeals will have any effect is an open ques­tion. Some observers don't think so. 
"When Americans go shop­ping for a car, they hit the power window button and toss politics out the window," said Sean McAlinden, senior economist at the Office for the Study of Automotive Trans­portation at the University of Michigan. "They say, 'Let some other guy be the patriot.­
~-------------_.._____"""""1!11_...--------------~ 
Viewpoint 
page 10 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .................• Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ..........•.•.• David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Thursday, January 16, 1992 

American international policy needs definition 
Dear Editor: 
The recent success experi­enced by the European nations in fashioning the European Community is indeed a won­drous and amazing feat of in­ternational relations. Just a few decades ago these same countries were, after all. drowning Europe in the blood of the world's most destructive war. 
If the communities continue to be successful in their economic and political ventures within their loose federation, the world can expect to see a wholly united and sovereign European Community. The European people, especially countries like Germany, are prepared to transfer even more of their national political, military, and economic power to the federation. As German Chancellor Helmut Kohl stated, "We would have gladly gone further but this is the first step." 
Would we, as Americans, however, be so willing to sacri­fice our own prowess to such international cooperation? When I posed this question to a couple of classmates, the an­swers I received surprisingly showed no interest in such an idea. One spoke of America as the "last true empire" and, in turn asked me why we would want to give that up for the common good. Another laughed and said, "Eric, if you believe in stronger international cooperation, you're definitely a minority." 
But isn't international coop­eration the whole idea behind Bush's "new world order"? Or is positioning American military bases around the globe simply a form of showing our empirical military and political power? If so, then many third world countries are justified in denouncing our intentions, and our unpopularity in the United Nations is understandable. 

If, however, we are a nation truly dedicated to international cooperation, it is our duty to give support to the United Na­tions and other such efforts. Decisions must be made based not only upon their effect on our nation, but their interna­tional ramifications as well. Americans must learn to rec­ognize the fact that we are members of a world community as well as a national one. 
It is time that we as Ameri­cans clearly defined our inter­national policy. If we are going to be isolationists, there is no point in driving ourselves fur­ther into debt by playing mili­tary and political games around the world. We should bring the boys home, and pay more attention to our own economic and social problems. 
If, on the other hand, the United States is going to con­tinue to play a large interna­tional role, it should begin to do so in a positive way. Long term planning and dedicated effort could result in a large portion of the world united in a federation similar to the European Community. 
The United States has become an inspiration to forming democracies around the globe. Perhaps it is time to use that inspiration to form a democracy encompassing the globe. If America isn't going to be dedicated to this ideal, however, let's not just act like we are. 
Eric Doebele Stanford Hall 
Dec.12,1991 
Heterosexism is causing evil in society, not orientation 
Dear Editor: 
A colleague at work has a son enrolled at Notre Dame, and receives The Observer, often sharing articles of interest. It has been distressing to view the plethora of letters regarding homosexuality/safe havens on campus. At the same time, The Observer offers a good forum for students to explore arguments on both sides. As someone long-gone from campus, might I offer my perspective? 
I might first state what Jesus Christ said about homosexual­ity: "(nothing]." What might He 
DOONESBURY 
BOOPSte, Y(J()'R& 6/VIN6M8 NOTH­ING 8I.JTMIXW 5!6NAL--5H/3Rb! YOU UJ4NT TO 5ee M8, 'tW[)(}N'Ti 
I MAK& YOU HAPPY, I MAKe Y(J() Uf>5!3.T/ I CAN'TR6UR8 (J()T 6()!/'-Kj{}Nl 
say regarding campus-wide judging? The answer might be in Matt 23, Luke 6;37ff, etc. There is a parallel to some of this thinking. 
In our nation's past some (please forgive the pejorative) 'niggers' who were fair-skinned would pass for white in a soci­ety where white racists were tolerated and civil liberties de­nied. As people of color devel­oped a sense of the own pride and self-respect, as civil rights were won, this phenomenon faded -to the chagrin of the white supremists. Try substi­tuting another pejorative, 
HIJL-L-,J HARPt-Y 
8Vl3N Rtcl)(jN/ZC 
THe/?8
YaJ ANYMOl<£/ 
YOU
8ACH TIM&! 5E& 
60. 
Y~ YOU'V& PUT 
I
ON MJR& IA/IJ/6HT/ I 
'faggot' and then ask: "Why is it essential to me that gays be ego-dystonic, self-hating, and bait for jokes, bashers, and le­galized discrimination?" 
I would invite graduate psy­chology students to explore prejudice before they explore changes in orientation; to ana­lyze some of the recent letters, such as A.A. Howsepian's (The Observer, Dec. 3), in terms of the author's need to maintain a heterosexist attitude as a defense. 
I am a therapist, and have worked with a number of Ro­man Catholic clergy, many of whom struggle with issues of sexuality. I see a confusion be­tween orientation and behavior, between blaming the bigot or the victim, present in a number of recent letters and articles. Sadly, these are also present in my work. Again, one might question why this issue draws so much energy from the straight community, and what covert or hidden agendas are being played out. 
I believe heterosexism is a far greater force of destruction in our society than is orientation. As with witch burnings, mas­sacres of Native Americans, lynchings, etc., the brunt of the damage initially falls on the vic­tims. Those who take it upon themselves to change others, disapprove of others, condemn others only experience conse­quences at a later date. 
A psychologist I work with often quotes: "Hurt People hurt people." I wonder what our campuses, cities or country would be like of these Hurt People (the self-appointed judges and juries) could them­selves be healed ... 
S.F. Kopp, MS, CP Arlington, Virginia 
Dec.11,1991 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'We are who we pretend to be; we had better be careful who we pretend to be.' 
Kurt Vonnegut Jr. 
Peal offthat mask and submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint
Thursday. January 16, 1992 page 11 
ND fans overcome odds, bond in New Orleans 
Imagine ushering in the New Two seconds later "Wags" The overriding factor that That seemed a fitting reply Year at a place called the Gold sneaked up behind me. They 
brought us together was the "us until one drunk four rows in Mine, just off Bourbon Street. had a running joke between versus them" mentality ex­front of us yelled for me to sit At the stroke of midnight, I was them that I never seemed to hibited throughout the week. It down. "This is America. I can fortunate enough to hug and catch. Randomly one of them frustrated me less this trip than root ifl want," I replied. kiss several Pasquerilla West would make the "party dude" during my last Sugar Bowl visit, The Florida crowd the did the residents as well as shake symbol with his hand (thumb but it affected our group. As old "Two bits, four bits, six bits, hands with fellow Domers and and pinkie out, other fingers time passed, we grew closer, a dollar...all for the Gators their friends. No, I was not closed) and place the thumb on especially as the number of stand up and holler" cheer. "scamming" on these gals. his forehead while yelling the Florida fans dramatically in­I responded, "You do that old Rather, we were bonding, Notre name of a toothpaste. "Crest," creased. Our bonding process high school cheer quite well." Dame style, throughout the "Topal," and then they would began in the French Quarter (Of course, I am certain they week. point at me and laugh. Ask and ended at the football game. could not understand our
Gary J. Caruso 
New Year's Eve was the mid­Wags about this when you see Anyone who has traveled to "woop, woop, woop" cheer.) 
Capitol Comments 
point of my visit and reminded him on campus. an away game is struck by the "You rich people don't have me of a previous Sugar Bowl friends in a uniquely Notre differences in the bands, fans, anything to root for," he trip I took during my student After meeting another arrival Dame way. cheers, and facilities. Obviously slurred. days when Notre Dame won the at another gate, we left the air­Several of the guys I met were the Super Dome was a neutral "How about eight National National Championship over port. We were the first of eigh­not Notre Dame students. facility, but the crowd was Championships and seven Alabama. At that time Notre teen Notre Dame students, When they arrived, they half­overwhelmingly with Florida. Heisman Trophy winners?" I Dame had just turned co-ed, so alumni, and friends to descend heartedly supported ND. As Their fans looked like Sunkist asked. most of the students on our trip upon the Avegno family. Jen­one said "I guess I want them to oranges dressed entirely in or­"Did you go to Notre Dame?" were "the guys." They had nifer Avegno is the win." After facing "P_ss on ange. (And I thought some of "I graduated from Notre 
Notre Dame" or "F Notre
names like "Duck," "Mouse," Leprechaun's significant other. the wild green plaid pants at Dame!" "Pumpkin," "Gas Man," So anyone who knew Jenny or Dame" pins along with wild ND were gaudy!) The few who Just then several Domers be­"Cretin," "Boomer," and Wags sort of invited themselves yells about it being great to be a dressed somewhat decently still gan to chant, "It's great to be "Howdy Doody." We were ter­to stay for a while. Gator fan, they felt the Florida had an attitude less humble off probation!" 
ribly outnumbered by Alabama Despite the extraordinary in­intimidation. Following one than the ND crowd. I guess the The drunk then yelled, "We're fans, but we acted much more convenience we posed, the fantastically emotionally S.E.C. title can do that to some. still kicking your ass." sophisticated and classy. Avegno family demonstrated draining experience in the Our fans wore the traditional "Well, you sure are a classy 
This year, I had the opportu­why Domers win hearts and Super Dome, they celebrated ND sweaters and sweatshirts. I guy," I replied. "You really give nity to hang out in the French souls as well as sporting events. after the game as true ND fans. personally wore a "Notre Dame Florida a great reputation." Quarter with more female stu­Jenny's parents had adopted I wish everyone at ND could 93" shirt with a strip of white "Come over here and say that, dents than guys. These "gals" seven children, some of have experienced the many at­tape on my back. We found the I'll kick your ass," was his witty had names like "Peanut," different racial backgrounds tractions in New Orleans with tape in the hotel elevator after reply. 
"Germ," "Jen One," and "Jen and one severely disabled. us. Our visit to the Sitting Duck the team had boarded the bus "Yeah, you're really a class Two." We were also terribly What was another ten or bar near Tulane was quite for the game. The tape had act, pal." (Always call them unique. Between certain hours
outnumbered by Florida fans, twenty more to them? I felt like "Jurkovic" written on it. I "pal" because it upsets them but once again we acted more part of the Brady Bunch in shots were priced at four for a reasoned that it could not hurt further.) I continued, "I thought dollar. Imagine laying out a ten any of my superstitions to wear Miami fans were bad, but
civilized. numbers. Yet the family love dollar bill and watching the
On New Year's Eve, Bourbon and caring that exuded the tape. For that matter, you're worse." That was the Street was crowded with mostly throughout that house was bartenders fill rows of glasses neither would leaving the salt in his wound. loud Florida fans. They were much more than I could have with pink, green, yellow, and television on ABC in my At this point he showed me his 
the types who seemed more in­dared imagine. reds liquids. Now imagine me darkened hotel room. Maybe I version of how to gesture num­terested in beer, pickup trucks, The family rule that I strug­and my group slamming a few could arouse the ND echoes to ber one with his fingers. An­and the Gator's success than gled with was: "NO swearing." rows along with a Flaming assist us if necessary. other Florida fan in front of me Doctor Pepper or two. I think I On the other hand, supersti­told me to ignore that guy be­
the stock market, the closing of I left my Sugar Bowl tickets 
General Motors' plants, or back in Washington, D.C. and have pictures of this. I'll know tion played no roles in our cause he really was not a typi­semester grades. We chose to was frantically trying to find whenever the ftlm is developed. band's performance. The Irish cal fan. I knew otherwise, but I avoid the orange and blue by someone to Federal Express Pat 0' Brien's was Pat 0' band outclassed Florida's with responded, "My father always seeking bars with short en­them to me. Between phone Brien's. Enough said except our choices of music and over­told me not to argue with an 
that I began my visit there and all demeanor. Florida did that idiot, but I just couldn't helptrance lines in less travelled calls, Grandmother "Dot" vis­
ended it after the game. Other
streets. ited, the children kept us on our stupid "Gator Chop" while using myself tonight." 
pictures will verify my semi the theme from "Jaws." How The drunk came up to my
The Gold Mine was located on toes, and the Avegno parents St. Peter at a corner about a treated us royally. To them all, state of mind at that location. gators and sharks mix I'll never row to slobber something. I I publicly say, "Thank you so In fact, I met fellow Observer know. The Irish rocked and told him, "It's only a game. If
block from Pat 0' Brien's. The 
staff in the courtyard and mod­swayed while playing classical you want to win so badly, then Ilarge, dark, noisy interior had a much. I had one hell of a time!" (Oops, sorry mom!) eled my partially grown "90210 music along with the greatest hope you win." He was speech­
dance floor and three bars. "Beautiful girl, love your dress, Of course everyone in our sideburns." My temples looked of all fight songs. I have never less. 
like they were just entering pu­sung our fight song As the game progressed, the
fifteen smiles, oh yes ... " from group also enjoyed themselves so loudly, 
despite a moment or two when berty, but who could tell after a so often, and with such clarity Irish got stronger and the mo­the Violent Femmes roared as I 
entered. Something from The various tensions arose. Some few Hurricanes? as I did at the Sugar Bowl. I mentum shifted. I could see all Single Gun Theory played as I were caused by the twenty­While drinking played a large had finally reached my limit the Gator fans squirming in the role in our bonding process it with their fans. second half. They knew we
finally found the Domers inside. hour drive down. An Then the television monitors occasional spat erupted by no means was a major factor It all started when a couple of would beat them. above the crowd spun the between the ND gal and her in our experience. Actually, drunken Floridians chanted, While I sang myself hoarse, I "Wheel of Doom." Whichever non-Domer guy. Headaches knowing of Notre Dame's policy "It's great to be a Florida Ga­took special delight in tht: (and I believe the Catholic tor." At first, I thought they words, "What though the odds
shot name came up on the from the flu, as well as 
Church's 1652 edict) prohibiting were saying, "It's great to be a be great or small, old Notre
screen cost only a dollar for the headaches from drinking, next half hour. They were sometimes dominated the day. open containers in public fornicator." I soon learned how Dame will win over all. .. " places, I observed several to decipher their accents. Those verses summarized our
served in plastic vials, easily Tears and anger surfaced at 
Domers react to the New Or­week in New Orleans.
bunched into a plastic glass for times whenever someone got However, the next cheer got a 
leans law permitting open con­little more personal. They Strangers made lasting friend­
smooth transporting and con­sick or did not adhere to a pre­veniently opened like a hand arranged rendezvous time. But tainers. That reaction was chanted, "Michigan, Tennessee, ships in the French Quarter. throughout these normal inter­simply a universal "Yes, oh yes, Penn State." We responded Irish families gave theirs hearts
grenade with the teeth. 

Accent 

Christian rock singer Margaret Becker will be performing this Saturday at O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8 p.m. Proceeds from Becker's tour will benefit Habitat for Humanity, a national relief agency. 
House music 
Christian rocker Margaret Becker tours to increase social awareness 
By JOHN O'BRIEN 
Accent Editor 
One of Christian music's hottest acts comes to town this Saturday as Margaret Becker performs at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Rick Elias and band, as well as Australian musical artist Peter Shambrook, will join Becker for the 8 p.m. performance. 
The blonde-haired rocker, who was originally an opera singer, received Grammy nominations in 1988 and 1989 for Best Gospel Performance by a female and her third album was named 1990 "Pop Album of the Year" in a Harvest Rock Syndicate Reader's Poll. 
Becker comes to Saint Mary's as part of an 85 city tour to promote the work of Habitat for Humanity, a social action group that works to provide affordable housing to low­income people. 
Becker's record company is donating $.55 to Habitat for Humanity from each sale of her latest album, Simple House. 
Trumpeting the cause of the 
underprivileged is nothing new for Becker, who has included songs about the meek and oppressed in all of her albums, including her classic "Immigrant's Daughter" al­bum. 
"To me, Habitat is really my grandparents, my grandfather," Becker told Billboard magazine. 
"He was an immigrant to this country and lived in a one-room tenement all of his life. He was hard-working and honest, but was never able to break out of that cycle," she said. 
"Habitat singles out that type of person, the type of person who needs a miracle to break out of their situation. Habitat is that miracle. I have a real passion for it," she said. 
Information on the ND/SMC chapter of Habitat for Humanity can be obtained from Kathy Royer at 239-7862. 
Tickets to the show are available in advance at the Saint Mary's Box Office for $9 or $7 for groups. They also can be purchased at the door for $11. 
NO Counseling Center focuses on students 
I 
l 
By ELIZABETH WHOLIHAN 
Accent Writer 
I 
t is probably not surprising that many 
students do not know 
where the University 
Counseling Center is, and probably less surprising that many studiwts do not realize the grea~ variety of reasons any student at this university could utilize its services,' ·. ,.. 

Coun~eling Centers tend to carry a· stigma with them that to use the offered assistance is to proclaim a person has prob­lems. 
On the contrary, the University Counseling Center (UCC} makes itself available to students who want to have a better understanding' of them­selves, whether or not it hap­pens to involve a traumatic event or crisis. 
In 1967, Notre Dame had both Psychological Services and a counseling center, which merged as the Counseling and Psychological Services in 1982. It was in 1985 that the final name change was made to University Counseling Center. 
The UCC, located on the third floor of the Health Services Building, is not actually a part of the University Health Services. 
Although students can be referred by doctors from the infirmary if psychological fac­tors seem to be the cause of physical sickness, confidential­ity is maintained by the UCC. 
The UCC does not reveal if a student has used its services, even to the person who made the referral, without the stu­dent's written permission.According to staff psychologist Dr. Len Hickman, "There shouldn't be a stigma by using the UCC." Different services of the center promote a "healthy way toward self growth." 
The purpose of the University Counseling Center is to offer objective, professional support for people to cope effectively with different transitional peri­ods and normal life concerns. 
"We're here to serve the stu­dents' needs... (we can help] 
normalize experiences and as­
sist psychologically healthy 
students who are having vary­
ing degrees of stress," says Dr. 
Hickman. 
He also notes that much of 
the unusual levels of stress 
people experience often come 
from regular life events. which 
call for a supportive sounding 
board for peoples' concerns. 
A 
ccording to Hickman, 
counseling between a 
member of the UCC 
staff and a student can 
be very beneficial to 
the students because there is 
no relationship beyond one of a 
counseling nature. 
"We care very much about 
our clients," says Hickman, but 
a staff member's role is limited 
to counseling, which helps 
maintain objectivity. 
A counselor can help 
evaluate options and decision­
making and help brainstorm 
for ideas without necessarily 
giving advice. The degree of 
discussion and the number of 
sessions, however, greatly 
depend on the student's needs. 
Most students have four to eight sessions at the UCC. 
The UCC also offers Personal Growth Groups, which meet weekly for a semester. The is­sues of these groups are vari-­ous, from relationships, assertiveness and self-explo­ration to roommate concerns and adjustment to school. 
Both single sex and mixed groups are available. Some of the single sex issues include modern problems of gender roles and reactions to them. Says Hickman, these groups are "a way to be learning about yourself that is not threatening." 
Less personal but equally useful means of utilizing the UCC are the phone information lines on different subjects that may be of interest to a student. 
There is also the new Counselor's Corner in the Observer which highlights let­ters from students and a coun­selor's response to questions and concerns. 
Approximately eight percent of the student body (both grad­uate and undergraduate} utilize the UCC's services. There has been an increase over the last three years in the use of the services, yet graduate students seem to be more at ease in dis­cussing concerns with a coun­selor. 
"Lots of students have mis­conceptions about the UCC," says Hickman. He emphasizes the UCC's practice of confiden­tiality in all cases except those that are life threatening, mean­ing suicidal or homicidal. 
The student has the control of what information is shared with others. For instance, a student can request that a rector or specific professor be informed of his/her counseling, yet withhold permission for specific information to be discussed. 
The UCC is a service of pro­fessional therapy which can help develop support systems for a student who is away from support systems of home. 
Although there is a small fee for services, arrangements can be made if the fee poses a problem for the student. 


The Observer accepiS classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Noire Dame otllce, 314 L.afof1une and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenler. Deadline lor next-day classifieds Is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge Is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Hey certain Lyons woman. YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK TO A YOUR LIFESTYLE Buy a METAL SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER Have you been to North Dining 
LIVE! DO IT RIGHT! SPRING loft bought in Aug $60 or BEST VACATIONS! DR. ENEMA MUST BE STOPPED!!! Hall this semester yet? That would BREAK IN JAMAICNCANCUN, OFFR (I paid 100) Dan 232.Q550 Jamaica, Bahamas including THE BALTIMORIC TORRENTS make it two times in three years!! FROM $429! INCLUDES HOTEL, airfare, great hotel, and much more OF SPHINCTERAL SPEWAGE 
ALTERATIONS AND AIR. TRANSFERS. from only $599. Buy from the 11 WILL SUBSIDE. I SENSED HIS Thanks to Jen Marten, sporting a DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-79 Subaru Great in snow! Runs name you trust for quality vacations. MISTS IN TUTORIAL-TANGENT. sexy new 'do. for all her skilled help 259-8684. 7710. strong, cheap insurance, FOUR SEASONS last night in making the evening so 
good gas mileage, AM/FM 1-800-331-3136. much more bearable. Does she 
cassette, CB, $700 Call have as dirty a mind as people 
TYPING AVAILABLE $350.00/DAY PROCESSING 258-1010 A FLOWER, SIGN OF FERTILITY, think? Wouldn't you like to know. 
287-4082. PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL Top 20 Ut Choir 1992 Tour Quotes IS THE KEY TO THE HAPPINESS Also, thanks for the typing. I rNte 
YOU. NO EXPERIENCE 20. RE-PENT. U-R EVIL. OF DOCTOR LOVE. IMAGINE A you one. NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. TICKETS 19. Thurvey thayth ... XI RED, IRISH, WILD ROSE.
I LOST/FOUND I 18. That was the Sabellian Heresy. 
I NOTICES 
17. Can you buy it from a 
NEED TIX FOR MICH-ND catalog(ue)? FOUND: gold/brass earring FOR RENT B-BALL. X3926 16. It's a theoretical vegetable. I think I puked out of my butwhole medium sized, hook goes through 15. When I think ancient. I think in your earring hole type, hanging Mark terms. kind of tear drop shaped with a HOUSE FOR RENT. $150/MO. PERSONAL 14. It didn't work-she's not talking thing in the middle (hard to WALK TO CAMPUS. CALL PAUL yet. STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA 
s
describe) Found it in front of the 287-2159. 13. Hey, Paul-there's the Info on semester, year, graduate, 
library right before break INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Australian Embassy. summer and internship programs in 
CALL 288-9421 if this sounds Good rates. Save Money. Call me 12. We will fear no encore, for Gail Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and 
familiar 6 OR 7 BEDROOM HOME NEAR for a quote 9:30-6:00, is with us. 
CAMPUS.SECURITY SYSTEM.FOR 289-1993. Office near campus. 11. I'm really going to screw you up FALL 1992.272~ tonight! 
~~;:':"~-BREAKS
LOST: GOLD & SILVER 500 LIRA 
COIN PENDANT BEFORE BREAK. Seven minutes 
NOT WORTH MUCH BUT I WILL FOR SALE Monica Eigelberger is still a ho, but 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 
PAY$ TO GET IT BACK. 283-3987. only with Keenan guys. 10. The way honkin' plaid behonkey Monica Eigelberger is still a ho. And 
DAYTONA BEACH .._lftM 
shield. she likes being fondled. 
sana 1 NIGHTS 
Favorite 8 Football Recipes of a 9. Know what? Chicken butt!! 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND """lf28 
S AND 7 NIGHTS
WANTED Notre Dame Cook. $3. 8. That cantor guy looks more like a M.Sisk, 2741 S. 3rd. Niles, Ml A SUMMER JOB YOU'LL LOVE! priest than your priest does. The Lizard King liveS onf Down with 
STEAMBOAT """lf22
z. 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
49120. Coed Massachusetts camp, 3 hrs. 7. There was a cat with half of a the Crustaceans! 
PANAMA Cn'Y BEACH """ lf22 
7 NIGHTS 
Spring Break to Florida Beaches BostontNY City. Super kids, great face. What happened? 
Energetic Promoter needed. Earn food, friendly atmosphere. 100+ 6. We must respond with a joyful 
FORT LAUDERDALE """lfJI 
7 NIGHTS
FREE trips and CASH. Call CMI at CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED staff: tennis, lifeguard, WSI, "As You Wish." It was raining harder than a dog 1-800-423-5264. 89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50, artstcrafts, all land(Water sports, 5. Do the alumni like to eat G? peein' on 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND """lffl 
SAND 7 NIGHTS 
87 MERCEDES $100, 65 MUSTANG fitness, gymnastics, piano/play for 4. She means nothing to me, Laura! a smooth rock. 
MUSTANG ISLAND I """ lf28 
$50. Choose from thousands shows, drama, judo, dance, 3. The name of the game is petals 
PORT ARANSAS 
S AND 7 NIGHTS 
starting $25. FREE 24 Hour archery, photography, computers, around the rose. The number 
lith Annual Scripts. Fill out simple "likeldon't 2929 Copyright i 1N11KJC yearbook, newspaper, wilderness, 2. RAMROD!!! 
$40,000NR! READ BOOKS and TV Recording Reveals Details 801-379-rocketry, guitar, radio, video, is always even. Prepare to dead. 
Celellrattanr like" form. EASY! Fun, relaxing at woodwork, AN, more! 1. His name is Christ is her name 

TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS horne. beach. vacations. 6120-8122. Caii(Write CAMP Cheryl Moser is still a production 
1•8QQ•J21•5911 
Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd., goddess even if she doesn't wait for~ Hour Recording 801-379-2925 USAIR SB to Worcester MA male Eastchester, NY 10707. the slower sports people to get their~ Copyright iiN11KEB Mrch 7$129 Dan 232-Q550 800/955-CAMP. heynif acts together, 
SCOREBOARD
p~e 14 Thursday, January 16, 1992 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE  
AtlanUc Dlvlelon  
w L  Pa  
New York 22 11  .667  
Boston 21 14  .600  
Philadelphia 16 20  .444  
Miami 15 21  .417  
New Jersey t5 2t  .4t7  
Washington t4 2t  .400  
Orlando 7 28  .200  
Central Dlvlalon  
Chicago 30 5  .857  
Cleveland 24 tO  .706  
Detrort 2t t6  .568  
Atlanta t9 t6  .543  
Milwaukee 17 t7  .500  
Indiana t4 22  .389  
Charlotte tt 25  .306  
WESTERN CONFERENCE  
Mldweat Dlvlalon  
w L  Pa  
Utah 23 t5  .605  
San Antonio 20 t5  .57t  
Houston 20 t6  .556  
Denver t4 22  .389  
Dallas t2 24  .333  
Minnesota 7 28  .200  
Pacific Dlvlalon  
Golden State 22 tO  .688  
Portland 23 t2  .657  
Phoenix 23 t3  .639  
LA Lakers 2t t4  .600  
LA Clippers 19 t9  .500  
Seattle t8 t8  .500  
Sacramento tO 25  .286  
Monday'a Gamee  
Detroit 84. Dallas 8t  
Denver ttt. Sacramento 109  
Phoenix t3t, Minnesota t1t  
LA Clippers 98. Seattle 94  
Tueaday'a Gamea  
New Jersey 97, Dallas 88  

Washington 127,/ndiana tt8, 20T New York tt5, Orlando ttt Atlanta 93. Milwaukee 88 Portland t2t. Cleveland tt4 Chicago t 03, Philadelphia 80 Houston ttt, Denver 94 Golden State t24, San Antonio t23 Lltah tt6. Minnesota t10 Charlotte tt7, Seattle tt6, OT 
NFL POST SEASON 
Firat Round 
Saturday, Dec. 28 Kansas City t 0. LA Raiders 6 Atlanta 27, New Orleans 20 
Sunday. Dec. 29 Dallas t7, Chicago t3 Houston 17. New York Jets tO 
Second Round 
Saturday, Jan. 4 Washington 24, Atlanta 7 Denver 26, Houston 24 
Sunday, Jan. 5 Buffalo 37, Kansas City t4 Detroit 38, Dallas 6 
Thursday, Jan. 2 Monday, Jan. 6 Thursday, Jan. 9 Saturday, Jan. 11 Monday, Jan. 13 
. 
CE  L10  Streak  Home Away Coni  
6-4  Won  2  14·3  8-8  17-8  
2  4-6  Lost  2  14-4  7-10  12-10  
7112  4-6  Lost  2  10-7  6-13  9-13  
8112  2-8  Lost  4  11-6  4-15  t2-tt  
8t12  7-3  Won  t  tt-t04-tt  8-t8  
9  6-4  Won  2  6-tt  8-to  7-t3  
t6  t-9  Lost  3  4-t3  3-t5  6-t4  
9-t  Won  6  t7-2  t3-3  20-3  
5t12  9-t  Lost  1  t5-2  9-8  t8-4  
tO  8-2  Won  4  t3-7  8-9  tt-10  
tt  7-3  Won  t  t3-6  6-to  9-t3  
t2 t12  6-4  Lost  3  12-5  5-t2  t0-t2  
t6 112  3-7  Lost  t  t1-7  3-tS  7-tt  
t9 tl2  4-6  Won  t  7-tt  4-t4  7-t6  
CE  LtO  Streak  Home Away Coni  
6-4  Won  t  14-t  9-t4  t2-6  
ttl2  6-4  Lost  t  tt-5  9-tO  t3-t0  
2  5-5  Won  3  tt-6  9-tO  t2-7  
8  4-6  Lost  t  t2-8  2-t4  8-t6  
tO  t-9  Lost  9  7-tt  5-t3  8-t2  
t4 t12  3-7  Lost  2  5-t4  2-t4  5-20  
7-3  Won  t  tt-5  11-5  t6-8  
tl2  8-2  Won  2  t5-5  8-7  10-8  
t  7-3  Won  4  14-3  9-tO  t5-7  
2tl2  5-5  Won  2  tt-6  10-8  t2-9  
6  4-6  Won  t  t3-7  6-t2  tt-t2  
6  4·6  Lost  3  t0-7  8-tt  t2-8  
t3 112  3-7  Lost  1  7-7  3-t8  4-t5  
Wedneaday'a  Gamee  

New Jersey at Boston. late 
Portland at New York, late 
Milwaukee at Miami. late 
Detroit at Indiana. late 
Charlotte at LA Lakers, late 
Phoenix at Sacramento. late Thuraday'e Gamea 
Miam at Washington, 7:30p.m. 
Chicago at Cleveland. 7:30 p.m. 
San Antonio at Minnesota. 8 p.m. 
Denver at Dallas. 8:30 p.m. 
Golden State at Houston, 8:30 p.m 
Atlanta at Utah. 9:30p.m. 
LA Clippers at Seattle. t 0 p.m. 
Conference Champlonahlpa Sunday, Jan. t2 
Buffalo tO, Denver 7 
Washington 4t, Detroit t 0 
Super Bowl 
Sunday, Jan. 26 
At Minneapolis 
Buffalo vs. Washington, 6 p.m. 
Pro Bowl Sunday, Feb. 2 At Honolulu 
AFCvs. NFC 
at #15 Kentucky at #23 Southern Cal at LaSalle at #8 North Carolina at West Virginia 
RESULTS OF WOMEN'S BASKETBALL GAMES PLAYED OVER SEMESTER BREAK 
NHL STANDINGS AND ALL·TIME TEAM BALLOT 
WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Dlvleion 
NY Rangers  w 29  L 17  T t  Pts 59  GF t83  GA t55  Home t5-6-t  Away t4-tt-O  Div tt-8-0  
Washington  28  t5  3  59  202 t53  t3-7-t  15-8-2  t3-7-0  
Pittsburgh  24  16  4  52  200 t66  t0-8-4  t4-8-0  t2-t0-2  
New Jersey  22  t5  6  50  t64  t26  15-6-2  7-9-4  7-9-4  
NY Islanders  t6  22  6  38  t64  t80  9-9-4  7-t3-2  6-8-3  
Philadelphia  t4  20  9  37  t23  t47  9-7-6  5-13-3  4-11-3  
Adame  Dlvlalon  
Montreal  29  t4  3  61  t44  99  18-5-t  t1-9-2  14-6-2  
Boston  20  18  5  45  t51  t51  14-6-2  6-12-3  9-7-2  
Buffalo  16  21  7  39  t48  158 12-7·4  4-14-3  6-10-3  
Hartford  15  20  5  35  124  139  8-8·5  7-12-0  7-9-3  
Quebec  11  28  5  27  138  181  11-11-1  0-t7-4  6-10-2  
CAMPBELL  CONFERENCE  
Norris  Dlvlaion  
Detroit  w 26  L 13  T 5  Pts 57  GF 182  GA 147  Home 16-6-1  Away 10-7-4  Dlv 12-5-2  
Chicago  19  18  10  48  t56  147 15-6-4  4-t2-6  7-8-4  
St. Louis  20  18  7  47  t57  153 14-5-2  6-t3-5  7-10-3  
Minnesota  19  20  3  41  142  154  12·8-2  7-t2-1  9-8-3  
Toronto  12  28  5  29  116  166  8-12-2  4-16-3  6-t0-2  
Smythe  Division  
Vancouver  24  13  7  55  156  129  15-5-4  9-8-3  14-6-3  
Calgary  20  18  6  46  171  153  11-6-3  9-12-3  9-9-2  
Winnipeg  19  20  8  46  145 t48  13-10-2  6-10-6  6-9-5  
Los Angeles  17  19  8  42  180  173  9-7-6  8-12-2  9-8-5  
Edmonton  17  22  7  41  161  181  9-7-3  8-t5-4  9-10-4  
San Jose  tO  32  4  24  116  200  8-t1-2  2-21-2  7-t2-3  
Monday'•  Games  Wedneaday·a  Gamea  
Calgary 2, Montreal 2, tie  Boston at Hartford. late  
Edmonton 7, Minnesota 4  Buffalo at New Jersey. late  
Tuesday'•  Gamea  Montreal at Minnesota, late  
N.Y. Islanders 6, Detroh 2  Vancouver at Edmonton, late  
N.Y. Rangers 6, Buffalo 2  Thuraday'a  Gamea  
Calgary 5, Quebec 3  Hartford at Boston, 7:35p.m  
Chicago 1, Philadelphia 1, tie  Pittsburgh at Detroit. 7:35 p.m.  
Washington 6, St. Louis 1  Philadelphia at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35p.m.  
Vancouver 4, Winnipeg 2  Calgary at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m.  
San Jose 3. Los AnnAl"" ., '"'  Toronto at Chicago. 8:35p.m.  
Montreal at St. Louis, 8:35p.m.  
The ballot for the the NHL 's AU-T ime T earn.  Washington at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m.  
Firat  25  Yeara (11117-42)  

Names for this era will not appear on the ballot. The team will be selected by the Hockey Hall 01 Fame player selection committee. COACH-Jack Adams. Dick Irvin. Lester Patrick, Art Ross. 
GOAL-Frank Brimsek, Charlie Gardiner, Tiny Thorrpson, George Vezina 
DEFENSE-King Clancy, Dlt Clapper, Sprague Cleghorn. Ching Johnson. Sylvia Mantha. Babe Pratt, Earl Seibert, Eddie Shore. LEFT WING-Toe Blake, Busher Jackson, Aural Joliat, Frank Nighbor. Sweeney Schriner. CENTER-Syl Apps, Frank Boucher, Howle Morenz, Min Schmidt, Nels Stewart. RIGHT WING-Chatlie ConacheT, Bill Cook, Gordie DTIJion, Joe Malone, Cyclone TayioT. Second 25 Yeara (11142-67) 
COACH-Toe Blake, Punch lmlach, Dick Irvin, Tommy Ivan. 
GOAL-8111 Duman, Glenn Hall, Jacques Plante. Terry Sawchuk. 
DEFENSE-Butch Bouchard, Bill Gadsby, Doug Harvey, Tim Horton, Red Kelly Pierre Pilote, Bill Quackenbush, Jack Stewart. 
LEFT WING-Doug Bentley, Ted Lindsay, Dickie Moore, Bert Olmstead, Sid Smth. 
CENTER-Jean Beliveau, Max Bentley, Ted Kennedy, Henri Richard, Milt Schmidt. 
RIGHT WING-Andy Bathgate, Bernie Geoffrion, Gordie Howe, BU/ Mosienko, Maurice Richard. Third 25 Yeara (11167-112) 
COACH-AI Arbour, Scony Bowman, Glen Sather, Fred Shero. 
GOAL-Ken Dryden, Tony Esposito. Grant Fuhr, Bernie Parent. 
DEFENSE~ay Bourque. Paul Coffey, Rod Langway. Bobby Orr, Brad Park, Denis Potvin, Larry Robinson, Serge Savard. LEFT WING-Bill Barber, John Bucyk, Bobby HuU, Frank Mahovllch, Mark Messier. CENTER-Bobby Clarke, Phil Esposito, Wayne Gretzky, Mario Lemieux, Stan Mikita 
AUSTRAILIAN OPEN 
MELBOURNE, Australia (AP)­
Results Wednesday of the $4.7 million Australian 
Open tennis cha~ionshlps (seedlngs In 
parentheses): 
Men 
Singles 
Second Round 
Omar Campo<ese, Italy, del. Simon Youl, Australia. 8-3, 6-4, 7-6 (7-4). Lars Wahlgren, Sweden, del. Derrick Rostagno (12). Pacific Palisades, CaJU., 6-1,7-5,7-6 (7-3). John Fitzgerald. Australia, del. Jan Siemerlnk. Netherlands, 7-5, 6-t, 7-6 (7-4). Lars Koslowski, Germany, del. Paolo Cane, naly, 6-2. 1-6, 7-6 (7-1), 6-3. Stefan Edberg (1), Sweden. del. Claudio Mezzadri, Switzerland. 6-1, 6-2. 6-1. Patrick McEnroe, Cove Neck, N.Y., daf. Jeff Tarango. Manhattan Beach. CaiH.. 6-1. 4-6, 6-4. 6­
3. 
Michie/ Schapers, Netherlands, del. Jacob Eltingh, Netherlands. 1-6,6-4, 5-7,6-1,6-3. Doubtea Firat Round 
Petr Korda, Czechoslovakia. and Wally Masur, Australia, del. Andrei 0/hovskly, Russia. and Dimitri Poliakov. Ukraine, 6-1,6-2. 
Grant Connell and Glenn Michibata (3). Canada, def. Diego Nargiso and Stelano Pescosolido, Italy. 6-3.6-4. 
Women 
Singlea 
Second Round 
Rosalyn Fairbank-Nideffer, Escondido, Cal~ .. del. Jessica Emmons. Tempe, Ariz., 6-4, 6-2. Fang Ll, China, del. Rennae Stubbs, Australia, 7­5,6-2. Taml Whitlinger, Neenah, Wis .. del. Catarina Lindqvlst. Sweden, 6-3. 7-6 (7-3). Kirrberly Po, Rolling Hills Estates, Calif .. del. Joanne Limmer, Australia, 3·6, 6-4, 7-5. 
Yayuk Basuki, Indonesia. del. Louise Field, Australia, 6-7 (5-7), 6-3, 6-4. Doubtea Firat Round 
Sabine Appelmans. Belgium, and Isabelle Demongeot (1 0). F ranee, del. Sabine Hack and Silke Meier, Germany, 6-0, 6-2. 
Belinda Borneo, Britain, and Kerry-Anne Guse. Australia. del. Pan/ O'Reilly and Terri O'Reilly, Ridgewood, N.J .• 6-2, 6-4. 
Jenny Byrne and Louise Stacey, Australia. del. Alexia Dechaume, France. and Florencia Labat. Argentina, 7-5. 6-3. 
Say no to high-fat foods. 
RIGHT WING-Mike Bossy, Yvan Cournoyer, Jan K;u;;,;rri:;;·.;;G;;;u~y.;;L;;;at,;;;le.;;ur;;.,.;;La;;;n~n~y,;;M;,;;cDo,;.;n.;;a;;;ld;;,. ______________________, 

TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 
American League 
TEXAS RANGERS-Announced John 
McMichael, vice president of business operations, 
has added the !hie of treasurer and Charles 
Wangner, vice president of administration. has 
added the title of secretary. Named Jay MIller 
director of sales-customer service and Chuck 
Morgan director of In-park entertainment and 
broadcasting. Promoted John Schriever to director 
of ticket operations; Taunee Paur to director ol 
communtly relations; Larry Kelly to director of 
publications; and Rich Billings director of group 
sales. 
TORONTO BLUE JAY5-Signed AI Leiter, pitcher, and Ryan Thorrpson, outfielder, to one­year contracts. National League 
ATLANTA BRAVE5-Signed Damon Berryhill, catcher, to a one-year contract. 
CHICAGO CUB5-Signed Les Lancaster. prtcher. to a one-year contract. International League 
ROCHESTER REO WING~amed Bruce Leichtman assistant general manager; Russ Brandon director of baseball operations. and Bob Socci director of communications. BASKETBALL National Baaketball Association 
SEATILE SUPERSONICS-Fired K.C. Jones coach. Continental B..ketball Aaaoclatlon 
BIRMINGHAM BANDITS-Placed Mark Wade, guard. on the suspended list. Activated Leonard Allen, center. from the suspended list. 
COLUMBUS HORIZON-Announced the resignation of Vince Chlckerella. coach. OMAHA RACERS-Released Chip Engel/and, guard. 
RAPID CITY THRILLERS-Signed Wayne Engelstad, fotward. FOOTBALL National Football League 
CLEVELAND BROWNS-Named AI Groh defensive assistant. 
NEW YORK GIANTS-Named Rod Rust defensive coordinator. Promoted Jim Fassel. quanerbacks coach, to offensive coordinator. World League of American Football 
BIRMINGHAM FIRE-Named Stacey James director of communications. 
OHIO GLORY-Named Dr. Christopher Kaeding team physician; Dr. Richard Fischer and Dr. Trent Sickles associate team physicians; Christopher Rocco atheltlc trainer; and John Lombardi special projects and gameday coordinator. Canadian Football League 
TORONTO ARGONAUT5-Signed Steve Roest and Jeff Croonen, delenslve linemen. TRACK AND FIELD 
TAC-Named Roy Grlak, Minnesota track coach, coach of the U.S.junior men's lrack and lield team that will compete In a dual meet In Canada In August COLLEGE 
ARIZONA-Named Kent Baer dllfenslve coordinator and Inside linebackers coach. BOSTON COLLEGE-Named Chip Forrest assiatanl baHINit coach. 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION­Announced the admission of Fresrw State as an active melliler. 
IT'S YOUR 
CAROLINE, 
YOU DORK! 
HAPPY 
DRINKINGS, 
ptJ&& 
''The best American movie of the Nineties!'' 
·Donald Lyons, FILM COMMENT 
11 Gus VanSant makes a big bold leap to join Jim Jarmusch and the Coen brothers in the front ranks of America's most innovative independent film makers. The film itself is invigorating -written, directed and acted with enormous insight and COmiC elan. 11 -VIncent Canby, N.Y. TIMES 
11 ****!Exceptional ... so delightfully different and daring that it reneWS your faith. 11 -Marshall Fine, GANNE'l'I' NEWS SERVICE 
"A tenderly comical and beautiful piece of work." 
-David Denby, NEW YORK MAGAZINE 
"Two Thumbs Up!". stskel & Ebert 
RIVER KEANU 
PHOENIX REEVES 
MY OWN 
PRIVATE IDAHO 
A FILII .y CIU8 VAN 8ANT 

Ji'INE LINE FEATURES ....,.., RIVER PHOENIX KEAN1J REEVES ,."MY OWN PRIVATE IDAHO" 
JAlfll8 1\USBO WILLW1 RICHERT RODNEY !ARVEY :ll!CHAEL PARKER FLEA CHIARA CABEW ... UDO K1ER .,"HANS" ro 'Millll ALLAN MINDEL ...o'IIIIJJ!'il BEATRIX ARUNA PABZTOR 'l!llliil1ll GUS VAN BANT diiiiD D.lVID BRIBBIN ""''I CORTIBS CLAYTON ~ERIC ALAN EDWARDS..,JOHN CAMPBELL 
"""'W LAURIE PARKER 'llll!lltli GUB W 8ANT FfiNEliNEtRI1ililiiil J ~ a1w t.1a1 c1a111A COIIP fEATUII:ES
CIIUl At.t. uoaTI llaiiB,ID 
Notre Dame Communication &Theatre 
CIDEffiR RT THE SDITE 
Thursday and Saturday Jan 16 & 17 
at Michigan LOYOLA(MD) at Temple at Syracuse LASALLE XAVIER DAYTON TENNESSEE 
L 75-86 w84-4Q L69-80 w &1-60 L 65-86 L 66-69 w 76-70 L 82-85 


page 15 The Observer Thursday, January 16, 1992 
McEnroe brothers advance to third round in Australian Open 
MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) -The Australian Open got a double helping of big Macs to­day, both with plenty of spice and a couple of pickles. 
John McEnroe argued with officials early in his match against Andrei Cherkasov, skirted trouble in the fourth set and snared a 7-5, 3-6, 6-4, 6-3 victory to move into a third­round showdown against de­fending champion Boris Becker. 
Younger brother Patrick McEnroe also had to work out of several jams and endure the temper tantrums of former Stanford teammate Jeff Tarango to advance with a 6-1, 4-6, 6-4, 6-3 triumph. 
The McEnroes stole the atten­tion from top seeds Stefan Edberg and Monica Seles, who posted straight-set victories without putting stress on in­juries they've been nursing. 
Edberg, the U.S. Open cham­pion bothered by a sore arm, eased up a bit on his serve but still beat Claudio Mezzadri 6-1, 6-2, 6-1. Seles, recovering from neck pain that also limited her serving power, stuck to the baseline to oust Japan's Kimiko Date 6-2, 7-5. 
David Wheaton, the No. 15 seed who won $2 million last month for winning the Grand Slam Cup, had a much tougher time, fending off three match points before downing Nicklas Kulti of Sweden 6-3, 5-7,6-4, 2­6, 8-6 in a marathon that last 4 hours and 20 minutes. 
American Derrick Rostagno, the 12th seed, fell 6-1, 7-5, 7-6 (7-3) to Lars Wahlgren of Sweden, a qualifier ranked No. 256 who scored his second upset of the tournament. He knocked off No. 20 Brad Gilbert on Monday. 
No. 5 seed Ivan Lendl, the runner-up to Becker in last year's tournament after win­ning the two previous years, advanced by beating Roger Rasheed 6-3, 6-2, 6-3. 
Women's No. 4 seed Arantxa Sanchez Vicario also exuded confidence in a 6-1, 6-1 romp over Sandrine Testud. 
John McEnroe, showing flashes of the brilliance that won him seven Grand Slam ti­tles, got into a dispute with the umpire over the use of the "Cyclops" device used to judge whether serves are long. 
"When we walked out on court, we were told we were working by the machine," McEnroe explained later. 
But after two of his serves were called out verbally without a beep from "Cyclops," he started arguing. He didn't seem to get a whole lot of satisfac­tion. 
"He sort of basically lied his way out of it," McEnroe said. 
After the dispute, McEnroe settled down for his second solid outing here since his ejec­tion two years ago when he threw a temper tantrum on the same center court. He came back from a lapse in the second set to ta~ the third, then re­covered from a break down at 1-3 in the fourth set to win the last five games of the match. 
"It's good when you both play well," he said. "There were a lot of winners instead of mis­takes." 
While he was looking forward to his match against the third­seeded Becker, he said he's go­ing into it realizing he's the un­derdog. 
"I have to play my best tennis and get a little lucky as well," McEnroe said. "He's got a huge serve. If I can return well, it'll be more on even ground." 
And he said he knows he can't rely on emotion like he used to: "The well's been pretty dry lately." 
Becker, who blasted 25 aces in his first-round match, ran into tough opposition from Italy's Gianluca Pozzi, who uses the loosest-strung racket on the men's tour to deliver an unset­tling variety of spins to keep opponents off-balance. 
Becker got off to a slow start, trailing a service break in the first set before finally prevailing 7-5, 7-5, 6-2 over the 78th­ranked Pozzi. 
"The first 25 minutes, it was tough to get going," Becker said. "My game is really the power game. I cannot serve 25 aces every day." 

The Observer/AP File Photo Patrick McEnroe, shown here preparing a backhand at the 1991 Volvo Chicago Tournament, advanced to the third round of the Australian Open. 
Eighth-ranked Connecticut hands Pittsburgh first conference loss 
HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) ­Connecticut wasn't impressed with Pittsburgh's stellar defense. It seems the Huskies know how to do it even better. 
While the Panthers had held opponents to 41.1 percent shooting this season, Connecticut has limited the opposition to 38.8 percent. 
"Coach (Jim Calhoun) told us they were a good defensive team, but they don't play in your face and if we'd execute our offense we could score," Huskies center Rod Sellers said. 
Calhoun was right. 
The eighth-ranked Huskies 

executed their uptempo game assists. Tuesday night and shot 54.4 "Smith just keeps them in the percent from the field, the best game," Pitt coach Paul Evans this season against Pitt, to beat said. "They shot 55 percent and the Panthers for the fifth we shot 42 percent. But we straight time, 87-77, and hand caught up to them on rebounds, them their first Big East loss. which was good." 
"We were able to get a lot of The Huskies (12-1, 3-1) good shots, a lot of layups and outrebounded the Panthers 23­dunks," Scott Burrell said. 11 in the first half to a 14-point 
"We just got some good halftime lead. The Panthers passing inside and did some outrebounded the Huskies 25­good things inside to open up 14 in the second half. the 3-pointer and the lane," "They got a lot of breaks in said Huskies guard Chris Smith, the second half and their big who was 3-for-4 on 3-pointers, bodies were wearing us down," scored 28 points and had seven Burrell said. 

Spring 13reak 92 DAYTONA BEACH 
From
$ssoo 
• 
3 Oceanfront Properties 

• 
1-4 Persons Per Room 

• 
Pools, Jacuzzis, Large Sun Decks 

• 
Games, Prizes, Contests Daily 

• 
Restaurants, Lounges 


Efficiencies and Oceanfront Rooms Slightly Higher 5 Nights Minimum Stay Required 
800-874-6996 
BEST WESTERN LAPLAYA RESORT HOWARD JOHNSON OCEANFRONT DAYS INN OCEANFRONT SOUTH 
SUR..rS!Df. R..f.SOR[S
-
2500 N. Atlantic Avenue Daytona Beach, Florida 32118 
Evans was impressed with the Panthers' second-half effort. 
"We've had some teams that have letdown after falling behind like that, but this team didn't," he said. "I think we've got some kids -Orlando (Antigua), Jerry (McCullough) and Sean (Miller) -that have got some frre inside." 
Smith said the Huskies expected a Pittsburgh 
comeback. 
"We knew they definitely would make a run and we wanted to be prepared," he said. 
They were. Connecticut held a comfortable lead throughout most of the second half. But the Panthers closed to 72-67 when Darren Morningstar hit a free throw with 5:16left. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
1•:sp1on:s briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through 5 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor of submit a short brief, your full name, and the date the s to be run. The Observer reserves the right to edit al 
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS. 
THE_ 
EDUCATIOIAL GROUP 
TEST PREPAATION GRADUATE SCHOOL SELECTION & COUNSELING LSAT • GMAT • GRE • MCAT 
SOUTH BEND • 273-1866 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
·~ 

page 16 The Observer Thursday, January 16, 1992 
Whoops Steinbrenner and Yankees a lucrative investment 
continued from page 20 
freshman Lynn Bihn (17 points, 10 boards) led Xavier to the victory. 
The Irish struggled in their next game as well, defeating Dayton 76-70 in double over­time. 
Once again, ND had trouble finding the range from the field, hitting only 29 percent of its shots in the second half as Dayton overcame a four-point halftime deficit. But the Irish shot 62 percent in the overtime periods (8-of-13), and Comalita Haysbert scored a career-high 29 points to lead them to vic­tory. 
Notre Dame's break schedule was capped by Sunday's 85-82 loss to third-ranked Tennessee in which the Irish found their shooting touch. They hit 62 percent from the field (33-57), but were unable to recover from a 22-point first-half deficit. 
"That's the best we've played since Syracuse, and before that Penn State," said Irish coa:ch Muffet McGraw after the Tennessee game. "It's frustrat­ing to look at the schedule and know that you should beat teams and not come out with a win. 
"But I think that tonight, we finally turned the corner. We're ready. We know what we have to do, what we can do-we got our confidence back tonight." 
Notre Dame (4-9) concludes its homestand against Louisville (7-5). 
Petrucelli coach of year 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli was named the National Women's Soccer Association/Metropolitan Life Insurance Company's regional coach of the year in the Central Region. Petrucelli, who guided the Irish to a 15-2-3 record in 1991 and their first ever na­tional ranking, tied Wisconsin's Greg Ryan for the honor. 
They joined Cornell's Randy May (Northeast), Bill Palladino of North Carolina (South) and Santa Clara's Jerry Smith (West) as regional winners. 
In his two years as head coach, Petrucelli has compiled a 31-5-4 record for a .861 winning percentage. Notre Dame pulled off wins over 20th­ranked Xavier and perenial national power William & Mary while moving as high as 13th in the national poll. The Irish finished 16th in the poll and captured the MCC championship. 

NEW YORK (AP) -The New York Yankees were not left with a shortfall because George Steinbrenner and his partners pocketed a reported $100 mil­lion in 1988 from a cable TV contract, a spokesman said Wednesday. 
New York Newsday reported Wednesday that a document on file with the New York secretary of state shows the club borrowed against its November 1988 contract with Madison Square Garden Productions. The MSG deal is worth an esti­mated $486 million over 12 years. 
The newspaper said Steinbrenner personally re­ceived at least $55 million and the remainder was distributed among his 17 partners, includ­ing his wife, Joan. 
Stephen Mangione said in a statement that the distribution was made to many partners who came aboard when Steinbrenner bought the club in 1973. Mangione said the return to the partners came because they had been called on to add additional money "in the course of 16 years." 
"The published report failed to say that an additional fund, in excess of $40 million, had been established in 1989 in the Yankee partnership and was already in place when Mr. Steinbrenner stepped down as managing general partner in August of 1990," the statement said. 
"This fund was established for future tax liabilities and and other Yankee financial needs," Mangione said. "I would hardly believe that Mr. Steinbrenner would want to see the partnership of which he is majority owner, do anything but well." 
Mangione said the Yankees were a profitable team prior to Steinbrenner stepping down. Mangione contended that the team has lost money since Steinbrenner left. 
Steinbrenner, who agreed to step aside over his association with a convicted extortionist, is hoping to win reinstatement as managing general partner from baseball Commissioner Fay Vincent. 
In other developments Wednesday involving the Yankees, Vincent filed a motion in U.S. District Court for a summary judgment against a law suit by Yankees chief oper­ating officer Leonard Kleinman. Vincent also met Wednesday with Daniel McCarthy to discuss his becoming the team's new general partner. 
McCarthy dropped his suit against Vincent last month. McCarthy consulted Steinbrenner on "tax matters" before the signing of free agent Danny Tartabull for $25.5 mil­lion over five years last week. 
"For a long time, the partners put in and we were fmally able to give them a decent payback," Steinbrenner told Newsday. "You don't need all that capital to operate properly. 
"Why leave all that money? That's why you make invest­ments, to make money." 
"There is nothing wrong with a club borrowing money, hypo­thetically," Vincent said. "Let's just say a club borrowed money and made distributions to its partners or shareholders, there is nothing wrong with that." 
Newsday said that the burden of repaying the loan may have been a factor in the team's de­cision to seek another loan to obtain the money needed to sign Tartabulllast week. 
Steinbrenner denied that sce­nario, saying that the club owns securities that carry dividends in the 9-to 10-percent range and that it made sense to borrow money rather than sell the securities. 
"If you can borrow at 7 or 7 112 percent and invest at 10, you're smart," Steinbrenner said. 
He also denied any connection between the loan-financed pay­out in January 1989 and his de­cision the following month to commit millions of dollars to his American Ship Building Co. 
"I want to make this perfectly clear, the Yankee distribution is just that, a distribution," Steinbrenner said. "We could have done the American Ship through other money that I had, other money left by my parents." 
NTIL THERE IS 1';0 I.ONEI.I!'.:I·~<.;S. NO Dl'..."iTITUTIO;>.;, NO SICKNESS, NOWAR... !1 
+ 

Thursday, January 16, 1992 
The Observer page 17 
Top-ranked Blue Devils keep rolling, pound N.C. State 110-75 
DURHAM, N.C. (AP} -Not all ing a 67.6 percent performance the lights went out in Duke's in the second half. Cameron Indoor Stadium Christian Laettner led Duke's Wednesday night. It just seemed attack with 23 points, and said that way for North Carolina it was the team's shift into State. overdrive that turned another 
Just before the house lights game into a rout. suddenly dimmed late in the "I just think we can turn up first half, the Wolfpack had seen the intensity every once in a a one-point deficit balloon to a while to super-high," Laettner 10-point gap. After the said. "Throughout the game, electrician brought the lights we're doing a good job of being up, it put the spotlight on a 110-intense, but every once in a 75 victory for the top-ranked while, we'll get a run going." Blue Devils. 
"I told Tom (N.C. State's Duke ha~ shown that intensity Gugliotta), 'You're shooting the much of the season. The Blue lights out.~ joked Duke's Grant Devils (11-0, 5-0 ACC) had won Hill. their previous 10 games this 
Actually, it was Duke that lit year by an average of 21.8 up the statistics with 63.6 per­points, with their only close call cent field goal shooting, includ-coming in an overtime victory 
Big Ten puts halt to taunting 
CHICAGO (AP) -Trash the "Trash Talk," or pay the price. 
Big Ten basketball coaches are worried about the taunting and baiting by players. Fear not. The conference has a firm grip on the situation. 
Rich Falk, the Big Ten's su­pervisor of officials, said the officials can call a technical if there is "taunting and baiting." 
"Trash talk falls in that category," he said. "Profanity, vulgarity, obscene gestures are unsporting and will not be tolerated." 
If the matter falls in a gray area and the official is not sure, Falk said, the official can warn the players, the team captains and the coaches. "But if it's an 'in­your-face' display, we are going to administer technical fouls." 
That, said Michigan State's Jud Heathcote, will halt mat­ters. 
"If you call a technical and give a team two free throws and the ball, it can make a difference in a Big Ten game," Heathcote said. "I don't think it's an epidemic. But on occa­sion it can get out of hand." 
''I'm concerned," said Northwestern's Bill Foster. "I've seen more this year than any year since I've been coaching. It is brought up more on TV. We have to have better control of the situation, or it can lead to something very dangerous." 
In the Michigan-Iowa game last week, officials had to pull two players apart. 
"It is not acceptable behav­ior," said Iowa's Tom Davis. "It's the way a lot of young players grow up playing. But we have to help them mature." 
"We have six points of em­phasis, and one of them is no trash talking," added Purdue's Gene Keady. "It takes your head out of the game, and we won't tolerate it. If others have to talk to be motivated, that's up to them." 
"If one of our players gets involved, he comes out," said Wisconsin's Steve Yoder. "It's not good for the kid, the school, the conference or col­lege sports." 
Illinois' Lou Henson said: "We don't have a problem with it. If we do, we'll correct it." 
There was some question about the source of such problems. 
"I played 10 years in the NBA, and we didn't talk trash," said Minnesota's Clem Haskins. "I don't like it. Fights can break out. We as coaches have to do better jobs. We call it lip service and tell the players to show your action on the court." 
against Michigan. Not much and when Hurley finished the changed against the Wolfpack half with a 3-pointer, the Blue (7-6, 1-2). Devils held a 48-37 edge. Still, 
Duke struck quietly, but the Blue Devils were trying to quickly and put the Wolfpack in reach yet another level. a hole late in the first half. "We just had to go out there Gugliotta's dunk ofT a steal got and play better defense and re­
N.C. State to witlrin 31-30 with bound," Hill said. "We did that. 
6:17 remaining, but Duke's re­We made a few bad decisions sponse was an 11-2 run. Marty on the break, but that was be­Clark's pull-up jumper from the cause we were anxious." right baseline with 3:13 left be­The anxiety hardly showed as fore the intermission gave the a 17-6 start to the second half Blue Devils a 42-32 lead. helped Duke run its edge to 65­
43 after a three-point play by 
With two minutes left before Hill at 15:38. The Wolfpack was halftime, about one-third of the no closer than 19 points after overhead lighting went out. that and the final score was the Officials decided to complete widest gap. the period without the full lights "My biggest concern over burning. That was about the there was that we would push only flaw in the night for Duke, the panic button and play scared," N.C. State coach Les Robinson said. "At least that did not occur. 

"It might be a case of a great basketball team taking advan­tage of a good basketball team. They did it methodically and gradually," he said. 
Hurley and Thomas Hill had 19 points apiece and Grant Hill had 15 for the Blue Devils, who ran the nation's longest winning streak to 17 games. 
Gugliotta, defended by Grant Hill much of the night, scored 22 points to lead N.C. State, which hit half of its 60 field goal attempts. Donnie Seale had 14 points for the Wolfpack and Kevin Thompson scored all 11 of his points in the frrst half. 
Men's hoops pull break upsets 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's bas­
ketball had its ups and downs 
over Christmas break as the 
Irish went 3-2 to improve their 
record to 4-6 for the season. 
John MacLeod's squad opened the break with a 91-70 loss at the hands of 15th­ranked Kentucky. The Irish led early, but the Wildcats broke the game open with a 15-0 run. Kentucky was led by Richie Farmer, with a career-high 28 points, and Jamal Mashburn, who chipped in 25. 
Notre Dame then traveled to 
Los Angeles, where the Irish 
scored the first of two major 
upsets. They defeated then 
23rd-ranked USC, 64-58. 
Offensively, Daimon Sweet 
and LaPhonso Ellis starred. 
Sweet scored 23 points,lS in 
the second half, and Ellis added 
21 points and 15 rebounds. 
The Irish next rallied from a 
15-point second half deficit to 
defeat LaSalle, 87-79. 
Following the 88-76 upset of eighth-ranked North Carolina, Notre Dame had a chance to climb back to .500 against West Virginia on Monday. However, the Mountaineers stopped the Irish's winning streak with a 87-67 triumph. 
The Associated Press con­tributed to this report. 
~ ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ¥0 

tl
THE GULF WAR-ONE YEAR LATER 
aarlss ol avants to remambar Md analyze tha Parslan Gun conlllct 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 18,1991 
CAMPUSCOMPETnnON
12:00 NOON -prayer and rellectlon at the War Memorial 
Racquetball Doubles (Men & Women) 
Co-Ree Volleyball INTERHALL COMPETITION 
7:00 pm -Forum and Discussion In the Ubrary Auditorium 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1991 
Team Racquetball (Men & Women)
5:15 pm -Mass lor the Dead at Sacred Heart Church 
GRADIFAC/STAFF COMPETITION 
Eflucatlonal videos will ba shown throughout both days at the center for SOcial Concerns 
Volleyball 
QUESTIONS? CALL ... 239-6100 
DEADLINE-JANUARY 22 
..~..................................................................~.,~-~-~,~, .......•.'~'''~'~•-•.P_~,,!,!P..~"'~'~.~--~~~~~-,~~~........................ 
page 18 The Observer Thursday, January 16, 1992 
SMC swim team defeats Olivet 95-60 
By CHRISTINE PENOTE 
SMC Sports Editor 
In a word, "relaxed" about sums up the atmosphere of Saint Mary's swim meet against Olivet Monday. 
"Practicing twice daily during Christmas training wore the girls out , " said Belles coach Dennis Cooper, " but knowing we were coming back to one of our weaker competitors allowed us to train right through the meet." 
Swimming many exhibition events, a mixed line up and sev­eral ofT-events, the Belles came away with a solid 95-60 victory over their weaker opponent. And of the 12 events, nine were triumphant for the Belles. Contributing to their conquest sophomore Jennifer Gustafson received first place in the 200 free. Kathleen Farrell snared first place in the 50 free while sophomore Kelly Collins went on to snatch first place in the 100 fly. Some other fine per­formances were by freshman Colleen Morrissey winning first place in the 100 free and sophomore Ellen Kramer cap­turing first in the 100 back. 
"The girls swam as I ex­
pected," said Cooper. "This meet was fun, but also a good way to evaluate how they have improved from Christmas training." 
The Belles will have to make good use of their Christmas workouts this Saturday against Division I opponent, Valparaiso. "They overwhelmed us last year, so we're not quite sure what to expect," said Cooper. 
See the Belles compete against the Crusaders at 1:30 pm at home for what Cooper thinks will be an "interesting" meet. 
Stanford to name Bill Walsh coach 
STANFORD, Calif. (AP) -Bill Walsh, spurning the San Francisco 49ers, has accepted an offer to become the coach at Stanford University, according to media reports Wednesday. 
Walsh, who had reportedly reached an agreement to return to the 49ers as a consultant, was offered on Tuesday a five-year contract worth $350,000 a year to coach again at Stanford by the university's athletic director, Ted Leland, the San Francisco Examiner reported Wednesday. 
Walsh, 60, replaces Dennis Green, who resigned as Stanford's head football coach last week to become the coach of the Minnesota Vikings on Friday. Walsh coached the 49ers to three Super Bowl vic­tories in 10 years and was known for his innovation. 
A news conference was scheduled for Thursday at Maples Pavilion, the university's basketball arena, in anticipation of a large media turnout. 
Walsh all but signed a pact with the 49ers to return to the NFL team as the capacity of a consultant, helping with draft­ing players and making trades, before changing directions this week. 
Walsh resigned from the 49ers in 1989 to become a television analyst for NBC, a position he held through the end of the just-completed season. 
Walsh, who coached at Stanford in 1977 and 1978, posting a 17-7 record with two postseason bowl victories, has called his years at Stanford the happiest of his life, although he found some aspects of recruiting distasteful. 
According to the Examiner, Leland offered Walsh some in­centives intended to make the job more appealing. Former Stanford and 49ers receiver Gene Washington, who recently was hired at Stanford as an administrative aide, would be available to assist Walsh with recruiting and fund raising. 
The San Francisco Chronicle reported Tuesday that Stanford assistant coaches would do most of the recruiting and Walsh would only be required for final visits of prospects to secure their letters of intent. 
ESPN also reported that Denver quarterback Gary Kubiak, who has announced his retirement, would be a member of Walsh's staff. 

.. 
Phon : '277­


Thursday, January 16, 1992 
The Observer page 19 
CALVIN AIID HOBBES BILL WATIERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPEWIIER JAY HOSLER 



BILL WATIERSON 
1 A.9(tD 0/\t> \~ f'i'OM WA.S PAD Sf>..ID WE'D K~W \F 
G()\~ \0 W..~t. fl.. '3AB'<, M~t> MOt-\ Wf!..S I-\11.1JING "' K\1> B£0.\lc:£ '3\.\t.:l> LOOK LlKE A 1-1\~\)()Tht<\\jS W\1\.\ f>.. G\A\1.11> t%BI..£M. 
;vvz_) 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
@ 1986 Umversal Press Syndicate
~ 

c::------~ 

50,000 B.C.: Gak Eisenberg Invents the first and last silent mammoth whistle. 
.. 
CAMPUS 
Thursday 
7 p.m. American Red Cross Water Safety Instructor Course, 218 Rockne. Contact Brother Lewis at 239-7053. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Chicken in the Pot Yankee Pot Roast Turbot Almondine Cheese Ravioli 
Saint Mary's 
Southern Fried Chicken Oven Broiled Chicken Deli Bar 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 
1 Family name in "The 
Grapes of Wrath" 5 Incursion 9 Swimming exercise 
13 College in Los 
Gatos, California 14 Raison d'---­15 Radiates 17 Herbicide's target 18 Now's partner 19 ----point (center 
of attraction)20 Fantastically 
overdecorated 22 Magazine item 24 Grampus 25 Coffee maker 26 Oriental truth 27 Chihuahua cheer 28 Comedian Louis ---­29 Furiously (3 wds.)31 Tennis call 32 City in West 
Germany 34 Some hardhats 36 Nervous speaker 39 Woody, flower-
bearing vine 42 Echo was one 46 Currently popular 47 Mack of the silents 50 Author Levin 
51 Harem room 52 Long Island or Puget (abbr.)53 Most common written word 54 Miss Field, for 
short 55 Breakfast favorite 57 Nonconformist 59 Dutch painter Jan 6D Ex-governor of 
Alaska 62 Ethereal 63 Prefix: spiral64 Adjust the sound­
track, for short 65 Peter, Paul, and Mary, e.g. 66 Word in Guy Lorn­
bardo's theme song67 "Peter Pan" pirate68 Prayer word 
DOWN 
1 Mandible 2 Mrs. ----cow 3 Imposes a fine 4 Pedestal part 5 Typewriter key 6 Pallas---­7 Dander 8 Adulterate, in a 
way 
9 Liberal (3 wds.) 
10 Mine: Fr. 
11 Brian of "Brian's Song" 12 Lemon of a car 16 Comes down ice 21 Perfect embodiment 
of something 23 ----Johnson, decathlon champ 30 "Pumping Iron" figure 
33 Id ---­
35 Take to court 
37 Rocky Balboa's domain 38 Lunkheaded 39 Wind-tunnel sound 4D Derivatives of a halogen
41 Regal
43 Use the wrong word 44 Dog or schooner 45 Calm 48 Natural gas component
49 From that time or place 56 Chow ---­58 "... I could---­
horse!" 61 Jack LaLanne's domain 
". 
Sports 
page 20 Thursday, January 16, 1992 
Louisville dumps cold-shooting Notre Dame 64-53 
By RENE FERRAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Will the real Notre Dame 
women's basketball team please 
stand up? 
Is it the group that shot 62 percent from the field while battling tooth and nail with number-three Tennessee last Sunday? 
Or is it the listless bunch that 
hit only 28 percent during a 64­
53 loss to Louisville last night at 
the Joyce ACC? 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw 
would like to know the answer 
herself. 
"We didn't have any intensity tonight," said McGraw. "We lacked aggressiveness, and we didn't have any rhythm (on of­fense)." 
Senior Margaret Nowlin was the lone bright spot for Notre Dame (4-1 0), scoring a career­high 30 points on 12-of-15 shooting from the field, six-of­nine from the line, as well as grabbing 14 rebounds. 
The rest of the Irish went a combined 9-of-59 (15 percent) from the field, with freshman Michelle Marciniak adding eight points on 3-of-15 shooting. No other ND player scored more than four. 
"We need somebody to step up and help her (Nowlin)," said McGraw. "Our guards have to come in ready to play, because none of them played very well tonight." 
Still, in the early going, it looked as if Notre Dame would cruise to victory. The Irish, paced by eight points and two assists from Nowlin. went on a 16-5 run to take a 22-15 lead with 7:40 to go in the first half. 
But it was all downhill from 
there. Tuanisia Cummings 
drove the lane for two of her 
team-high 17 points, and the 
Cardinals (8-5) went on to score 
the next 17 points, and 20 of 
the next 22, to lead by 11, 35­
24, with three minutes left until 
halftime. 
Nell Knox came off the bench 
to score eight points during 
their run, which ND stemmed 
with four points just before 
halftime to cut Louisville's lead 
to 35-28. 
"We shot the ball too quickly," said McGraw. "We can't be content to just come down and shoot threes when our best shot right now is to dump it into Margaret. 
"We need to exploit her more. If that's our best shot, then we have to get it to her, even if it means her shooting 35 shots a game." 
Both teams went ice cold early in the second half. With Louisville leading 42-34, the two teams went scoreless for the next four minutes, together missing 10 shots. 
Louisville was the first team to snap out of its funk. After Jenny Pearson and Comalita Haysbert exchanged free throws. Cummings buried a jumper from the foul line, and after an Irish turnover, Jody Martin hit a 15-footer from the right side to stretch the lead to 47-35 with 10:11 remaining. 
Notre Dame was down 49-36 with 8:51 left when it made its final run. Marciniak received a nice feed from Haysbert under the basket for the layup, and then stole the ball and raced for 
Women's basketball struggles to 3-5 record over break 
By RENE FERRAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team struggled over Christmas break, going 3-5 over the three-week stretch and losing its MCC home opener. 
The Irish opened their break schedule with an away contest at Michigan. Although leading almost the whole game, Notre Dame came apart down the stretch, and
"' 
the Wolverines capitalized for an 86-7 5 victory. 
After cruising past Loyola (MD) 84-49 the day after finals were completed, Notre Dame took a week off before travelling to Philadelphia to face Temple. The Irish fell behind late in the first half as the Owls went on a 16-5 run to grab a 37-30 halftime lead before defeating ND 80-69. 
Notre Dame next played on New Year's Eve at Syracuse. The Irish started out strong, going on a 9-0 run midway through the first half to take a 12-point lead. They upped their lead to 15 by halftime, and coasted to an 81-60 victory over the Orangewomen. 
Senior Margaret Nowlin had her fourth straight impressive performance, scoring 20 
points and grabbing 16 rebounds as the Irish outrebounded Syracuse 48­
25. For the eight games, Nowlin averaged 15.9 points and 10.1 rebounds, including scoring her 1,000th career point against Tennessee. 
After taking care of Syracuse, Notre Dame headed home for a five-game homestand, beginning last Sunday versus LaSalle. The Explorers exploded for 54 points in the second half to break open a 32-32 tie at halftime and crush the Irish 86-65. Jennifer Cole scored 26 points to lead LaSalle, who held Notre Dame to 35 percent shooting from the field. 
Xavier then made it two losses in a row by pulling out a 69-66 victory over the Irish in their MCC opener. Although four ND players scored in double figures, led by Michelle Marciniak with 15, poor shooting again hurt the Irish. Notre Dame shot only 37 percent for the game. 
While the Musketeers did not shoot much better (42 percent). transfers Carol Madsen (24 points) and Janet Haneberg (eight points, ten rebounds), along with 
see WHOOPS/ page 16 
another easy lay-in to cut the 
margin to nine. 
But the drive stalled there. 
The Irish were unable to con­
vert two easy shots on their 
next two possessions, and the 
Cardinals capitalized. Martin 
canned a three-pointer, and 
then after an ND turnover, hit 
another jumper from the right 
wing to up the lead back to 14, 
54-40, with 5:30 left. The Irish 
could get no closer than eight 
the rest of the game. 
Louisville did not dominate 
the final statistics. The 
Cardinals shot only 34 percent 
for the game (21-of-61), were 
outrebounded 56-47 by Notre 
Dame, and committed 23 
turnovers to ND's 20. 
The Irish also were able to shut down Louisville's leading scorer, Gwen Doyle, holding her to only six points on 3-of-12 shooting, but the Cardinals' starting backcourt stepped up to fill the void. Cummings and Martin (16 points) combined to score over half of Louisville's points. 
"Our weakness throughout the season has been our guard play," said Cardinals' coach Bud Childers, "so I was extremely happy to see them step up and hit some key shots for us tonight. 
"Gwen played hard tonight, but it was her second game playing a new position. We moved her to the power for­ward spot, and it'll take a cou­ple of games for her to adjust. " 
Irish fans can only hope their team develops some consistency of their own before their next game, next Thursday night at Butler. 
Women swimmers split two matches 

By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's 
swim team started the 
Christmas vacation early with a 
124-119 victory over Bowling 
Green. The meet marked the 
first time the Irish had beaten 
Bowling Green in head coach 
Tim Welsh's career at Notre 
Dame. 
"It was one of the challenges 
of the season," said Welsh. "We 
swam faster against Bowling 
Green that we did the week be­
fore (at the National Catholic 
Championships)." 
The Irish won six events in­cluding the medley relay and the diving event en route to the win. Tanya Williams, Cara Garvey, Becky Wood, and freshman Jenny Dahl captured the relay event for Notre Dame with a time of 3:52.86. Jenny Kipp won the one meter and three meter diving events. 
In addition to Kipp's twin diving victories, Williams was the only other double winner for the Irish with victories in the 200 individual medley and the 200 backstroke. The times she posted in each event were some of her fastest for the sea­son. 
Keely Yenglin was a double winner for Bowling Green with first place finishes in the 1000 freestyle and the 500 freestyle. Her time of 4:59.29 was the second fastest in Bowling Green 

Tanya Williams 
swimming history. 
Dahl was the only single win­
ner for Notre Dame, capturing 
the 200 freestyle with a time of 
1:53.93. 
Finishing in second place for the Irish were Susan Bohdan in the 1000 freestyle, Meghan Beeler in the 50 freestyle, Angie Roby in the 200 butterfly, Alicia Feehery in the 100 freestyle, Dahl in the 500 freestyle, and Becky Wood in the 200 breast­stroke, and the Notre Dame freestyle relay team. 
Welsh was pleased with the victory. 
"Overall, from the swimmers to the divers, it was a team vic­tory," said Welsh. 
After an intense training pe­riod after Christmas in Texas, the Irish swam against Texas A & M, one of the country's top teams, on January 4. The meet was held in San Antonio at the Palo Alto College Pool, a new pool that is being completed, 
that looks to be one of the 
premier facilities in the country. 
Unfortunately, Notre Dame 
lost the meet 132 1/2 to 102 1/2. 
For Welsh, the significance of 
the meet extended beyond the 
final score. 
"The test of Texas A & M is 
that they are constantly a na­
tional level program, but also a 
chance for us to see where we 
were after the Christmas train­
ing session." said Welsh. "It was 
an evaluation meet for us. 
Everyone raced and everyone 
was tested." 
All signs are positive that the 
Notre Dame team will be suc­
cessful in the new year. 
"I was pleased with the ap­
petite we had for racing," said 
Welsh. "It is probably the best 
we have ever raced after a 
training trip." 
The 1992 season will start of­ficially this weekend when the team travels to Northern Illinois for a meet on Friday night and then return home to face Cleveland State on Saturday. 
The Irish beat NIU last year, but Northern Illinois holds a considerable edge in the series. 
"They usually race very well so it is a test meet." said Welsh. 
Against Cleveland State, the depth on the Notre Dame squad will give the Irish an advantage. According to Welsh, the Cleveland State program has made numerous improvements in the last few years and should race well. 

