

VOL. XXIV NO. 86 
Student Body Pres. campaigns begin 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL day before Finals Week, the News Writer hiring of a private security force to patrol the Five Corners 
The Notre Dame election sea­area, and the development of a son begins today as the candi­"campus card" which would al­dates for student body presi­low students to open charge dent and vice president offi­accounts with on-campus busi­cially start their campaigns. nesses. 
Four presidential/vice presi­O'Neill said she and her run­dential tickets will be compet­ning-mate understand that it ing in the election, to be held can be "hard to change things" Feb. 10. If no ticket receives a at Notre Dame, but feel they majority of the vote in the initial have the experience in student balloting, a runoff election government necessary to "get between the top two vote-get­things done." She contended ters will take place Feb.12. that their ideas are "quite fea­
The candidates for president sible," since they have been im­and vice president, respectively, plemented successfully at other are: universities. 
•Greg 
Butrus and Molly Certo, an Alumni Hall resi­O'Neill; dent who represents the South 

•David 
Certo and Matt Quad in the Student Senate, Bomberger; said he believes his ticket has · 

•Rich 
Delevan and Joe Wil­"the energy and talent that can son; and make a difference" in student 

•George 
Smith and Mike government. Goodwin. Certo said his participation in 


A debate between is debating competitions and in scheduled for Wednesday at 9 the Model United Nations has Jl.m. in the Notre Dame Room allowed him to develop strong of LaFortune Student Center. public speaking and negotiation The debate is open to the skills. These skills are impor­public. The candidates will tant for a student body presi­
respond to questions asked by dent, Certo said, because who­members of campus media and ever holds the position must be members of the audience. able to effectively "speak up for 
No horsing around TheObserver!OeniseMartin Butrus, Stanford Hall co-students." . president, and O'Neill, Lewis A third ticket for the student body positions consists of Rich 
Emily Kleine, A Saint Mary's junior, sits atop her horse Beauregard. A member of the equestrian team Hall co-president, plan to lobby 
Emily tries to make her way out to Bob Egan's Stables in Buchanan, Michigan, as often as possible. ' for ~.he institution of "studydays on the Thursday and Fri-see ELECTIONS/ page 4 
Alumni discuss ·increased service role NAsccu 
By BECKY BARNES Urban Plunge and Summer Ser­tunity; and 
News Writer vice Projects for the CSC, Peter • Father Himes I page 5 •to provide opportunity to holds 3rd Pranica, coordinator of the make positive change. Members of the Notre Dame service programs of the Alumni gram to mohvate alumm clubs Pranica said that the program 
Alumni Association discussed Association, and Kathleen Sul­throughout the country to be­has made progress since 121 of conference 
increasing social service oppor­livan, of the Continuing Educa­come involved in social service. 192 alumni clubs throughout 
By HEATHER TREMBLAY 
tunities through local alumni tion Department of the Alumni The program has four goals, the country have created the 
News Writer 
clubs in the Alumni Social Con­Association. said Pranica: position of social concerns cerns Forum held last weekend Pranica said that the need for coordinator. 
"Service in Society" was the at the Fatima Retreat Center. Notre Dame alumni to use their •to further awareness of the topic of the third annual con­
professional talents to help role of the Christian faith in our He hopes to involve the re­
ference of the National Associ­
Panelists were Father Don others was realized in 1989. own lives; maining clubs during Humani­ation of Students at Catholic
McNeill, Director of the Center Since then, he and Katharine •to foster sensitivity to soci­tarian Week, April 18-25. Pran­
Colleges and Universities
for Social Concerns (CSC), Sue Sullivan, rectress of Lewis Hall, etal needs; ica called the week "an excuse (NASCCU), held at Notre DameCunningham, coordinator of have been developing a pro-•to provide reflection oppor-see ALUMNI I page 6 
last weekend. NASCCU was founded in 1989 to give a voice to students at
Two ND students assaulted 
Catholic colleges and universi­ties. The organization offers an opportunity for students from
on campus over weekend 
across the country to come Health Center. The fight
By ANDY RUNKLE 
stemmed from comments about
News Writer 
• Keynote speech I page 3 
the friend of another student, Two Notre Dame students Hurley added. 
together and discuss Issues that 
were assaulted in separate The second incidt'mt occurred 
are unique to the Catholic 
events on campus Saturday while the St. Edward's student university.
night, according to Chuck Hur­was walking back to his dorm ley, assistant director of campus at approximately 3 a.m. He 
Paul Timmons and Viv
security. had been dropped off at the Pritchard from the University of The first incident involved Main Circle and was walking on St. Thomas in Minnesota gave a two male students in Siegfried South Quad. 
presentation Saturday detailing Hall. One student struck an­He was struck from behind by 
their school's particular
other in the face, according to surprise in the right upper organizations for community
Hurley. shoulder, near the neck, ac­service.
In the second incident, a stu­cording to Hurley. 
One St. Thomas organization, dent returning to St. Edward's called Volunteers in Action, in­Hall was struck from behind by The victim then retaliated by cludes five areas of service: so­
an unidentified attacker on striking the attacker and 
cial, health, education, youth,South Quad. according to Hur­knocking him to the ground. 
and senior citizens. Pritchardley. The attacker ran from the The unidentified attacker then described the group as success­scene after the victim retali­ran from the scene. 
ful, involving more than 300ated, knocking the attacker to The victim was only able to students.
the ground. describe the attacker as a large 
Another St. Thomas social
The incident in Siegfried Hall male of unknown race. The 
service presented was knownoccurred at approximately 1 victim was treated by University as Business 200. The "class" is a.m. The victim declined medi­Health Services, according to cal treatment at the Student Hurley. 
see NASCCU/ page 4 


FORECAST: Mostly cloudy today with highs in the upper 40s. Cloudy tonight with a 40 percent chance of rain. TEMPERATURES: 

2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The time has come for Cuomo to run 
Groundhog Day is far too 
early to write off Mario 
Cuomo's presidential 
chances. 
Although Cuomo has let 
America know-through 

his press secretary-that Dave Dleteman 
he doesn't think much of 
Dan Quayle's judgement, Sports Editor 
he should hear the vice 
president out-just this once. Why? Look at 
the competition. 
On the Democratic side of the picture, 
Arkansas governor Bill Clinton has come 
down with a possibly fatal case of Hart dis­
ease-specifically the type brought on by 
tussles with Donna Rice (or in this case 
Gennifer Flowers). 
While a good number of voters may be 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 


Pr86Sure 
~~,~~ X i)

H L ~ m EZl rn ~ ~ ~ 
HIGH LOW 
SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via AssociBifld Press 
:;::;:::;:;::·:··. ·::;:;.:.:.:· 
..:..;:;:·.··· ;:;::::· ··:·.;.·:.· .:.:;: ·:·:-:::·:.. 
willing to overlook Clinton's alleged extra­marital activities, they instead ought to be 
TODAY AT AGLANCE

reluctant to entrust the future of the United 
States to a person who can't be honest with his spouse. 
But if he cheats on his wife. what will he do 
to the total strangers who were unwise 
enough to elect him? 
Among the rest of the Democrats-Bob Kerrey, Jerry Brown and George Bush's worst enemy, the uunnamed Democrat"-Paul Tsongas seems to be the most highly­regarded among politicos. 
Yet Tsongas (like many of the Democrats) is running a campaign as obscure as the pronunciation of his last name. 
The time is right, then, for Mario to enter the race. 
If Cuomo can get New York state's budget in order, and he somehow places in New Hampshire, he should seriously consider running. 
First, he would receive a wealth of free publicity from merely entering the race. Second, the Democrats in the race at the moment have handled themselves in a suffi­ciently fumbling and incompetent manner as to leave the country looking for a better al­ternative. 
Third, Bush is vulnerable. The president's recent State of the Union address revealed a president searching for a winning issue on the domestic scene. 
Yet the sad irony of the State of the Union is that even if Bush had proposed a novel or feasible idea, the Democratic congress would never pass it for him. 
Given Bush's precarious position and the ineptness of the Democrats to date, Cuomo should seriously consider a run for the presidency. What does he have to lose? 
Cuomo is not nearly the wimp that Michael Dukakis proved to be in 1988, so Bush would not come out of any mud-slinging contests {read: debates) looking like such a tough guy. 
Sadly for the Republicans, Bush's tough-guy image is about all he has going for him on the home front. 
Run, Mario, run. 
WORLD 
Avalanches hit Turkey 
•ANKARA, Turkey -Blizzards and snow-blocked roads hampered searches Sunday for more than 200 people feared buried under snowslides in the rugged southeast Kurdish region. By Sunday afternoon, 73 bodies had been recovered as the rescuers, airlifted by U.S. military helicopters, dug through the snow. Villagers carried victims in makeshift stretchers and shoveled snow and rubble to reach possible survivors. Thousands of villages were cut off in eastern and southeastern Turkey. In many places, the snow piled up to 10 feet high. A private Turkish TV station said officials estimated the number of dead at 322, including 102 soldiers. 

NATIONAL 



OF INTEREST 
City 
Amsterdam Atlanta Bogoca Boston Brussels Chicago Fargo Fairbanks Great Falls 
Honolulu 
Houston Johannesburg Kansas City London Los Angeles Mlarn Beach Mpls·St. Paul New York Paris San Diego Sao Paulo South Bend Tokyo Warsaw Washington, D.C. 

H L 39 32 
62 30 66 4t 
31 19 
30 25 
51 24 
43 30 -15 ·25 
52 32 
82 63 
82 63 
88 63 
69 40 41 30 
76 49 71 56 
42 26 
38 22 
39 25 
67 52 
77 68 
42 26 
46 32 36 32 
44 24 

INDIANA 

Schools switch to milk pouches 
•HOLLAND, Ind. -The first shot has been fired in a battle to supply tri-state schools with milk, but it wasn't the squirt from a revolutionary plastic pouch that some school administrators had feared. Instead, they worried that the clear half-pint plastic pouches were too radical a departure from the traditional paperboard "gable top" milk carton. School administrators also were concerned that students might try to squirt each other with the pointed straws used to pierce the plastic containers. If every school in Holland's Indiana and Kentucky markets would replace the old cartons with pouches 1,755 fewer tons of trash would go into the region's landfills each year. 

CAMPUS 

Scott continues recuperation 
• NOTRE DAME -Haley Scott, one of the Notre Dame swimmers injured in a Jan. 24 bus crash, remains hospitalized with a spinal cord injury, according to Stephen and Charlotte Scott, her parents. Scott uhas regained both some feeling and some movement in her legs and has been gaining strength day by day," said the Scotts in a statement released Friday. "She is in good spirits." The family said that they deeply appreciate the widespread public affection and concern shown for Scott. 
ACCU annual meeting 
• NOTRE DAME -The Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities (ACCU) will discuss "Catholic Higher Education: The Mission and the Faculty" at their 1992 annual meeting in Washington, D.C., on Feb. 4 and 5. Timothy O'Meara, provost of Notre Dame, chaired the planning task force for the conference for the second consecutive year. Nathan Hatch, vice president for graduate studies and research, will participate in a panel discussion on Feb. 5. Principal speakers at the meeting will be Father J. Donald Monan, president of Boston College and Eugene Kennedy, professor of psychology at Loyola University of Chicago. 
• Urban Plungers of this year and past years are Interested in multi-culturalism? Knott Hall will be 
The views are those of the author and not 
invited to join in conversation and a question and answer showing UCry Freedom" tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the TV 
necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
period with Lou Nanni and Mary Yu tonight from 6:30-room, followed by a discussion of issues with Demetrius 
7:30 p.m. in the TV Lounge of Siegfried Hall. Marlowe and guest Prof. Marcia Sawyer. 
Today's Staff 

Production News Lisa Bourdon Pete Loftus Kristin Costello Steve Zavestoski Sports Graphics Jennifer Marten Brendan Regan Accent Business Paige Smoron Colleen Gannon Meredith McCullough Andy Runkle 
Rich Riley Lab Tech. Garr Schwartz 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
MARKET UPDATE 

ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• Wednesday Lunch Fast begins Wednesday, February 5. 
• 
In 1861: Texas voted to secede from the Union. 

• 
In 1862: The "Battle Hymn of the Republic," a poem by Julia Ward Howe, was published in the Atlantic Monthly . 

•In 
1893: Thomas Edison completed work on the world's first motion picture studio, in West Orange, N.J. 

•In 
1960: Four black college students began a sit-in protest at a lunch counter in Greensboro, N.C., where they had been refused service. 

• 
In 1991 : South African President F.W. de Klerk said he would repeal all remaining apartheid laws. Thirty-five people were killed when a USAir jetliner crashed atop a commuter plane on a runway at Los Angeles International Airport. 


---~------------------~~~------~-------------------------, 
Monday, February 3, 1992 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

In the news 
Junior Bob Reilly is literally in the news Saturday afternoon as he searches for a story as part of his job in the periodical department. 

Club Column 
FEBRUARY 3, 1992 

l)The Club Coordination Council would like to remind all presidents of graduate and undergraduate clubs to check their mailboxes on the second I Roar of LaFortune, 
I 2) The Last Day to access club funds is April 10,1992,I3) The Minority Pre-Professional Club will have a short organizational meeting on Thursday, Feb, 6 at 6:30 p,m, in 184 Nieuwland. All minority pre-meds are welcome. 
4) EngGsh Majors Society will have a meeting on Wednesday, Feb.5 at 7 
p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. We will discussing upcoming events. 
S) The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development will hold all weekly divisional meetings as follows: Marketing Division, Tues. 6 p.m., ISO lounge; Professional Development, Sun.,11 a.m. Sarin Room, Lafortune; Internship Committee, Mon., 7 p.m. Siegfried Hall lounge; Citizen Democracy Corps, Mon., 9:30 p.m. Dooley Room, LaFortune. Any new members are welcome. Any questions contact Amy Mark at 283­4290. 
6) Campus Fellowship will be having a weekend seminar Feb. 7-9. The Friday Fellowship meetings will resume on Feb. 14. Morning prayer and meals are continuing at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. For more information contact Pat Clark at 283-2078 or Kathleen Sweeney at 284­4115. 
! Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4 pm 
I 
Thursday each week. All entries appear in the following Monday's edition of The Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office in 206 LaFortune. 
The Observer 
page3 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 
The United States Congress is making advances to make in­creased community service a reality for college students and the underprivileged, according to Father William Byron, Presi­dent of the Catholic University of America. 
Byron offered the keynote address at the third annual Conference of the National As­sociation of Students at Catholic Colleges and Universities (NASCCU). 
The theme of this year's con­ference, held at Notre Dame Jan. 31-Feb. 2, was "Service in Society: The Role of the Catholic University and College." 
Byron, a member of the Board of Directors of the Pres­ident's Commission on National and Community Service, said that instead of viewing com­munity service as a criminal sentence, society should begin to look at it as a responsibility. 
"Service is to be encouraged now as a matter of public pol­icy," Byron said. "Service is a responsibility to be met, not a punishment to be avoided." 
To make this possible, Congress has recently passed legislation: a combination of several amendments to old acts of Congress, Byron said. Titled the "National and Community Service Act of 1990," it covers a wide range of aspects of com­munity service, he said. 
"By enacting it (this act)," he said, "the Congress said it wants to enhance community 




You may not know our name, but wfive been a cornerstone of America for more than 125 years. 
We wouldn'tbe a bit surprised Ifyou didn't ~ognlze ourcompany name-CargilL Butwe've been In business since 1865, hdplng America's farmers feed the world. 
We're a company built on talented people. Our particular sldlls Include manetlng; handling and processing bulk commodities; risk management; strategic capital Investment; and taking an Innovative approach to generating cost efficiencies. 
We apply those slillls to a broad range ofbusinesses. Today, Catglll handles commodities as diverse as scrap metaland molasses, orange jukeand ocean freight, cotton and fertilizer, and wheatand p~lous metals. Ouroperations vary from Oourmllls to futures trading, from meat-pacldngplants to miningsalt, and fromsted mills to selling seed. Cargill, Its subsidiaries and aftlliates, employ more than 55,000 people worldwide. 
Entry-level opportunities are avallable In accounting, commodity merchandising, engineering. human resources, Industrial sales, Information systeuw, country elevator and plant operations management, Feed, Molasses Uquid Products, Seed, and Worldwide Poultry Operations. 
Ifyou're ready to join a company thatoffers a tradition ofexcellence, ideas and Innovation, honesty and Integrity, meetingthe needs ofInternationalcustomers, and growth andsuccess,then makeCarglllyourcareer choice. 
Recnlltment dates are as follows: 
February 12, 1992 -Commodity Merchandising February 13, 1992-Commodity Merchandising Intern 
Contact your placement office for further information. Cargill is an Equal Opportunity I Affirmative Action Employer M/F!HIV. StudeniS with disabilities are encomaged to apply. 
service and renew the ethic of civic responsibility in the United States." 
The main focus on much of this legislation is to involve groups of people who have not traditionally been associated with community service, Byron said. 
Byron said that the Senate has moved to allocate $73 mil­lion in fiscal year 1992 from the President's Commission on National and Community Ser­vice for projects which will. in­volve college students. 
One such program is the State Grant Program, which will make increased service a reality for college students. 
The State Grant Program ap­plies to universities and colleges interested in involving students in community service, he said. Grants, which will be made directly to colleges, will enable the schools to create or expand community service activities for students. 
"It (the program) will en­courage student-initiated and student-designed community service projects," he said. 
Byron said that students may not understand some aspects of poverty and homelessness when they hear about them. 
He said that in courses such as biology and chemistry, a lab session provides a situation for hands-on experience and better understanding. However, he said, no such "lab" exists for courses like economics and political science, and that ser­vice to economically disadvan­taged neighborhoods would bolster students' understanding and compassion. 

The goals of this funding also include integrating community service with academic curricu­lum so students can receive credit for volunteering. This will instill a sense of commitment to the community, Byron said. 
He said that although univer­sities have encouraged com­munity service in the past, one way to make it an active part of college life is to provide the schools with grants, or means to make it possible. He said that if students become interested in service, they can serve as role models. 
"New and expanded commu­nity service activities for college students will, it is hoped, en­gender a sense of social re­sponsibility and commitment to the community," he said. 
As for the students receiving credit for their work, Byron said that the work must be in­tensive and pertinent to the communities in which they work and live. 
"You have to look at pertinent problems," he said. "Experience has to be educative. It can't just be busy work." 
Byron said that a key objec­tive of involving students in community service is to en­courage nation-wide concern and action. 
"The possibility of a social revolution is latent in these complicated provisions," he said. "They could open the way for us to become a nation that cares about service." 
Pa. groundhog foretells long winter 
PUNXSUTAWNEY, Pa. (AP) ­More winter. That was the not­so-spontaneous forecast attributed to Phil, the ground­hog awakened Sunday to fur­ther a 105-year tradition in homespun American meteorol­ogy. 
A shivering crowd of about 3,000, including comic actor Bill Murray doing research for an upcoming part, cheered as the sleepy rodent was held aloft to peer through blinding cam­era flashes for its shadow. 
Prognosticating groundhogs­come-lately in Wisconsin, Geor­gia and West Virginia also got 

The Chinese Golden DragonAcrobats and Magicians of Taipei 
Thursday and Friday 

February 6 and 7 8:10pm Washington Hall 
Tickets $8 -Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students 

$10-General Admission Group rates available LaFortune Center Box office 
into the act, with differing out­comes. 
Superstition imported from Europe says when a groundhog sees its shadow on Feb. 2, ex­pect six more weeks of winter. No shadow means spring in two weeks. 
Since Punxsutawney inaugu­rated this forecasting method in 1897, a groundhog has pre­dicted an early thaw just 10 times, the last in 1990. 
"He's right about 90 percent of the time," said Jimmy Means, president of the Punxsutawney Groundhog Club's Inner Circle. "It's just instinct." 
--·-----··---·--·---­

.--------·-----~---~~----------------~ 
The Observer 

page4 Monday, February 3, 1992 
program is controversial, said briefly presented, including a Participating in service orga­and a look into how one indi­Timmons, but it also gives tutoring program that Pritchard nizations, said Pritchard, "can vidual university contributed to





NASCCU 
"service to the community, en­described as, "One of the best be a rewarding experience. service in society, said Tim­hanced employment opportuni­learning experiences I've ever They have taught me more than mons. The University of St.
continued from page 1 
ties, and personal growth of the had." Many of the clubs and I ever learned from a textbook." Thomas provided an example of required for all business majors students." organizations at St. Thomas are how to keep the student body and consists of forty hours of also required to do community The presentation was given what he called "mentally community service. The Many other programs were service. mainly for an exchange of ideas healthy." 
administration take stronger If elected, Smith and Goodwin dorms from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. On election day, students will action to prevent acquaintance said they would advocate the and from 5 p.m to 7 p.m. one also be able to vote on a refer­
Elections 
rape. adoption of a "student bill of week from today. endum aimed at judging stu­Despite their stress on secu­rights" that would ensure the dent support for the Academic
continued from page 1 
rity issues, Delevan said he and rights of "free speech, privacy, Residents of Dillon Hall must Code of Honor. The first ques­Delevan, co-president of Flan­Wilson will run a "fun" cam­and equal treatment" for Notre vote at La Fortune Center, since tion on the referendum will ask ner Hall, and Joe Wilson, the paign that includes a campaign Dame students. The candi­their dorm does not have a Ju­if students "favor the current student senator representing rally featuring a live band. dates also support a greater dicial Board that is certified to Academic Code of Honor at Mod Quad. Delevan said that if stress on multi-culturalism in handle the hall's ballots. Notre Dame," while the second elected, he and Wilson would The fourth ticket, Smith, from course offerings, but said they will ask if students "favor an fight for the installation of se­St. Edward's Hall, and Goodwin would oppose efforts aimed at Off-campus students will be academic Code of Honor in curity cameras in student from Dillon Hall, are presenting requiring students to take a able to vote at North Dining principle." parking lots and for the orga­themselves as the "outsiders" in distinct "multi-cultural class." Hall, South Dining Hall, LaFor­nization of neighborhood watch this year's campaign, stating tune Center, or the Hesburgh All undergraduate students, groups off-campus. that student government needs On-campus students, exclud­Library. These polling places including graduating seniors, 
Delevan also said they would an infusion of "new blood" in ing Dillon Hall residents, will be will be open from 9 a.m. to 7 are eligible to vote in the elec­demand that the University order to work more effectively. able to cast ballots in their p.m. tion. 
-~-


YotiveJustBeenOeared ForTakeOff 
You can get a lot more out of life when Depending on where you fly, each the Card will say a lot about you. For one you set your sights a little school year travel certifi­thing it says you have a handle on what you higher. Which cate is good for spend, so you don't have to carry over abal­is what applying $129 or $189 round­ance. It also says you're smart enough not to for the American Express~ trip-and each summer travel pay interest charges that can really add up. Card is all about. When you get the certificate is good for $149 or So take a few minutes 
Airfare examples now to call (have
Card, its easier to do the things you want $199 roundtrip. 
based on destination. b k ddto do. And with the student savings that S Vl'ngs that upgrade Your School your an a ress 
Roundtrip• and aCCOUnt number
come along with it, you can do even more. a Year Fare 
your lifestyle. NewYork-LosAngeles $$189 ready), and apply
Boston-Orlando 119

Fly roundtrip on Continental d C b
Asa stu ent ardmem er you San Francisco-Denver $Ll9 for the American 
for less than $100 each way. 

get more than great travel sav-Express Card. 
Student Cardmembers receive four travel ings. You also save money on everything With all that the Card offers you, not 
certificates. They can be used to fly any­from clothing to long distance phone calls. even the sky is the limit. 
where Continental Airlines flies in the All for a $55 annual fee. 48 contiguous United States. Two for the Obviously, savings like these say a lot THE CARD school year, and two for the summer~ about the value of the Card. And having THE AMERICAN EXPRESSS CARD 
Get going, call ~800~967~AMEX. 
Ifyou're already a Card member, there's no need to call. ·school year is considered Sept. 1-June 14, summer June 15-Aug. 31. Complete terms and condltions ofthis travel offer will arrive with your certificates. Continental Airlines alone is responsible for fulfillment ofthis offer. American Express assumes no liability for Continental Airlines' performance. © 1992 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 

, 
-----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
-----~------­
Monday, February 3, 1992 The Observer 

The observer/Marguerite Schropp 

Fruit of the loom 
Barbara Rossman, a senior finance major from Farley Hall, reaps the reward of a blanket following her work on the loom. 


Father Himes touts CSC; discusses God 
By LAUREN AQUINO Assistant News Editor 
Nothing in the Notre Dame community contributes more to society than the functions of the Center for Social Concerns (CSC), according to Father Michael Himes, professo.r of theology. 
"It is the gem of the Univer­sity," said Himes in a lecture titled "Our Gospel Call to Social Concerns," part of the Alumni Social Concerns Forum held last weekend at The Fatima Retreat Center. 
Himes opened by presenting two examples from literature of God's presence. The first example was from "The Gay Science" by Friedrich Nietzsche. 
Nietzche's work describes a market place scene in which all the people are looking for God but cannot find him. The madman shocks them all by proclaiming that "God is dead" and we are the ones who have killed him. The individuals at the market place are surprised because they are not yet ready to confront these consequences. 
The importance of the market place, according to Himes, is that it exemplifies the 19th cen­tury doctrine of Social Darwin­ism. God was already "dead" in that culture, and thus the peo­ple couldn't be human anymore, he added. The only thing left to do is disappear, or to become God. 
Himes' second example was from another 19th century work-"The Brothers Karama­zov" by Fyodor Dostoyevsky. 
In that work, Dostoyevsky tells of a woman who has no faith in God. "Nothing in life is real except the weeds that grow on my grave," she says. The advice which she receives is that she must come to love others, and then bit by bit she will discover it is impossible not to believe in God. 
The point is, according to Himes, that the existence of God is so intimately bound to the existence of our neighbor. 
In the next segment of his lecture, Himes used Jesus' Good Samaritan parable in Luke's Gospel to make the point that if you think you can love God and not your neighbor, than you don't understand Christianity at all. Drop the love of God, and you cannot love your neighbor, Himes said, nor can you continue being merely human because the world becomes vicious and inhuman. 
Himes concluded by answer­ing the fmal question, "How do we as alumni respond to the call of social justice?" He said we must omit the classical view of justice from our lives-that there exists a mind/body con­flict in every human being. 
The classical view of justice only induces pain and violence, and Christianity has nothing to do with this kind of virtue, said Himes. Instead, it is love that produces justice. When you are absolutely in love with the other, then you will do them justice, he added. 






Ihe Obsenrer 
Applications are now being accepted for the following paid positions: Managing Editor 
Business Manager 
Applicants for the Managing Editor's position should: •Have a wide base of Macintosh computer knowledge• •Have strong interpersonal and management skills• •Have strong editing skills and experience• •Be familiar with newspaper production• 
Applicants for the Business Manager's position should: •Be a sophomore or junior Business major• •Have desire to gain valuable work experience• •Have strong interpersonal and organizational skills• •Have a firm grasp of basic accounting principles· 
A three-page personal statement and resume must be submitted to Monica Yant by 5 p.m. Friday, Feb. 7. For further information or job descriptions, contact Lisa Eaton (Managing Editor) or Gil Gomez (Business Manager), at The Observer, 239-5303. 
page 5 



NO professor lectures on dangers of dioxin 
By TONY POPANZ 
News Writer 
Great controversy surrounds dioxin, an industrial waste ma­terial, because of conflicting reports of its toxicity, according to a Notre Dame professor and environmentalist who lectured at Notre Dame Friday. 
Studies of dioxin have elicited descriptions ranging from"the most toxic substance known to humans" to "a weak carcino­gen," said Kimberly Gray, as­sistant professor of civil engi­neering and geological sciences, in a Friday Forum titled, "The Raging Debate about Dioxin: Scientific and Social Aspects." 
Because of the continued uncertainty of its effects on humans, dioxin and its accumu­lation have produced much de­bate and concern. Dioxin, also known as TCDD, is a useless contaminant produced by in­dustry, according to Gray. 
Gray outlined the properties of dioxin, describing it as ex­tremely stable, immobile, and very difficult to degrade. Dioxin is a carcinogen, but its degree of toxicity in humans is not known, said Gray. "This uncer­tainty," she said, "is the essence of the controversy." 
It is virtually impossible to completely eliminate dioxin from the environment with to­day's technology, Gray added. 
She said that there is only one way to decompose dioxin in small proportions, and that is by applying excessive heat. Otherwise, dioxin tends to re­main and accumulate in our en­vironment as long as the prob­lem is ignored. 
Gray described the chemical composition of dioxin. Dioxin consists of at least two benzene rings connected by oxygen bonding. "The more chlorine each molecule contains, the worse," she explained. Sources of dioxin production include chemical industries, leaded ga­soline, municipal and hazard incineration, and paper indus­tries. 

Gray referred to a Fingerhut study that combined data of human exposure to dioxin from several industries. The results were eye-opening, said Gray, because workers were found to have a 46 percent higher risk of cancer from long-term expo­sure to industry. 
Whether dioxin elevated the risk or not remains uncertain, but it is very probable, she said. "The two central questions to pose are: 'How do we measure its effect?' and 'At what level is it safe?'" added Gray. 
Although scientists are still uncertain of dioxin's effects on humans, Gray related a popular theory. First, dioxin enters bodily tissue and infiltrates the cells, she said. "Dioxin binds to DNA and flaws it. Eventually, dioxin causes the liver to con­vert materials into carcino­gens," explained Gray. 
In high proportions, dioxin has already come into close contact with humans, said Gray. Residential areas, such as Love Canal in Niagara, NY, have been affected by dioxin, as well as by other related chemicals, she said. 
Love Canal, a community built over a former industrial dump, had to be evacuated after soil samples from the area were examined and were found to be high in toxins. As a result, the press and politicians revealed the public hazard of dioxin, and now the dioxin controversy is "as much a political issue as a scientific issue," explained Gray. 
The Love Canal crisis is an example of the lack of respon­sibility taken for the problem, she said. 
"Production of dioxin is an accident. First, we must come up with solutions to avoid its production altogether. Second, we must provide the technology to degrade dioxin already in our environment," concluded Gray. 
Four-ton elephant goes on rampage in Florida circus 
PALM BAY, Fla. (AP)-As a 10-year police veteran, Officer Blayne Doyle knows harrowing experiences, but he says noth­ing compares with having an 8,000-pound rogue elephant try to trample him. 
"I thought I was dead," Doyle said. ''I've wrecked police mo­torcycles and police cars, I've been shot once and stabbed three times and I've been in an airplane crash, but I've never been scared as much as I was then." 
Doyle was working security at the Great American Circus on Saturday when Kelly, a 27­year-old Indian elephant, went berserk. Police ended up shoot­ing it to death. 
The elephant, which suddenly ran out of the ring with five children and a woman on its back, grabbed Doyle with its trunk when he rushed to help the passengers. 
"She threw me to the ground and then came back over and picked me up with her trunk again and put me under her front feet and started to stomp on me," he told the newspaper Florida Today. 
"An animal trainer came over 
with a hook and the circus em­
ployees pulled me out from un­
derneath," Doyle said. 
Amateur videotape broadcast 
nationally showed the elephant 
knocking down a high-wire platform in the ring, with riders still on its back, as handlers tried in vain to regain control. 

Panicked spectators in the crowd of about 500 fled the grandstands. 
"There was this massive rush of screaming people moving in every possible direction, and suddenly the elephant just ran right through the middle of the crowd," said Chris McQuade of Melbourne, who got his wife and 3-year-old son out safely. 
The woman and children were 
rescued from the elephant's 
back while it was momentarily 
distracted. Later, the pachy­
derm continued running amok 
on circus grounds outside the 
main tent. 
Palm Bay Fire Capt. Jim Rus­
sell, who said he once owned a 
pet elephant, worked to distract 
the elephant as mothers 
grabbed their children and fled, 
said Assistant Fire Chief Art 



page 6 The Observer Monday, February 3, 1992 


Aftershocks shake Tokyo but no injuries reported 

Surnrner ded 
~~~,;ca
J11, Mexico, Ecuador, Pal'llguay, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Bl'llzil 
Work • Share 
• Live • Learn 
You can have a summer full of adventure and personal growth whole improving health for the people of Latin America. 
Meeting for all those interestedin becoming a 4,6 or 8 wk summer volunteer Wednesday, Feb 5th 7:30 in Lewis Hall Party Room. Contact ]en Babula@ x2665 
.with questions 
Makeitwithusand 



theskysthelimit. 
Looking for a chance to move in the fast lane? Then check out Marine Corps Aviation. The training is su­perb. The challenges are unique. Your ticket to fly is your college 
Alumni 
continued from page 1 
to get involved" and the begin­ning of a "lifetime habit of ser­vice" for alumni clubs. 

In the future, Pranica hopes to strengthen alumni club ties to the esc and current stu­dents. He wants to increase student involvement now, be­cause "if they drink beer and watch football as students, that's what they'll do as alumni." 
The ultimate goal of the pro­gram is to grow "not large, but deep, in awareness, spirit, and compassion," he said. 
Members of the audience raised the concern that service programs were not desired by many members of local alumni clubs. One said, "A good per­centage of graduates stand for something very different than social concerns." Another, who works in social service, added, "These folks have no interest in what I'm doing ... and they feel bad that Notre Dame produced people like me." 

Others returned that people who dislike service need more education. "A lot of them are just afraid. It's easy for them in their clean quiet neighborhoods with their money and their cars," one participant said. 

Another member stated that the tradition of Notre Dame must be acknowledged. "If Notre Dame is a place where upwardly mobile Americans 
send their children...! don't think that's going to change," he said. 
Other participants referred to the difference between charity, such as donating canned foods and building a house, and real social change. "Charity is safe," said one, "but people who are really committed to social change are necessarily going against the status quo." 
"Where are our alumni who have degrees in economics and public policy?" asked another participant. "These are the alumni I would like to see mobi­lize," he continued. 
McNeill concluded that the discussion raised both positive and negative aspects of service through alumni clubs and raised many points to consider. 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

Keep your eye on the ball 
Stanford hall junior, Dave Bergman, exercises his concentration while practicing his footwork Saturday afternoon. 
TOKYO lAP) -A series of small aftershocks shook the Tokyo area Monday, a day after a strong temblor left more than 30 people injured but caused only minor damage. 
The largest of the nearly 20 aftershocks registered 4,5 on the Richter scale and was cen­tered in Tokyo Bay, near the center of Sunday's quake. There were no reports of injuries or damage from the aftershocks, many of which were too weak to be felt by humans. 
The early-morning 



Gray to speak about new career 
Special to The Observer 
William Gray, III, president and chief executive officer of the United Negro College Fund (UNCFJ will make a presenta­tion at Notre Dame Feb. 3 as part of the Student Government Lecture Series. 
The lecture, "Changes, Chal­lenges and Opportunities in Ed­ucation and Why I Decided to Leave the House," will be held at 7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. 
Gray, former U.S. House of Hepresentatives Majority Whip, is a longtime supporter of edu­cation. "This new challenge al­lows me to continue the mission of fostering positive change and growth in the area of edu­cation," he said at the start of his tenure at the UNCF. "There is no area more crucial than education." 

earthquake on Sunday left 32 people injured and caused sev­eral blazes, fire officials said. Most of the injuries were due to falls or items that dropped off walls and shelves, authorities said. 
The quake registered 5. 7 on the Richter scale, which mea­sures its overall strength, and 5 on the Japanese scale of 7, which measures intensity at specific places. The Tokyo area had not had a quake of 5 on the Japanese scale since Oct. 4, 1985. 
,·,.n

li:'' 
r
}~,f
i 
~' 


William Gray Ill 
Before being elected to Congress in 1978, Gray served as minister at Bright Hope Baptist Church in Philadelphia, as did his father and grandfa­ther. 
During Gray's term in the House, he became the first black member of Congress to hold a position in the House leadership. He chaired the 

The Tokyo Fire Department said a telephone survey of 1,000 people immediately after the quake showed that because of the hour, 98.4 percent were not using stoves, heaters or other heating equipment. 
Fire was the major killer in Japan's worst earthquake, which hit as many families were cooking lunch on Sept. 1, 1923. Some 100,000 people died in that Tokyo-area quake, esti­mated at 7.9 on the Richter scale. 
Less than 1 percent of the 
House Democratic Caucus and the Democratic Platform Committee at the 1988 Demo­cratic National Convention. 
As Budget Committee Chair­man, he earned a reputation as a consensus-builder and was key in the budget negotiations between Congress and the Rea­gan Administration. 
Gray attended Franklin and Marshall College where he earned a B.A. degree in 1963, He then went to Drew Theolog­ical Seminary, where he re­ceived a Masters of Divinity in 1966 and Princeton Theological Seminary where he received a Masters in Theology in 1970. 
Born in Baton Rouge, La., Gray lives in Reston, Va. with his wife and their three chil­dren. 
The lecture is also sponsored by the Arts and Letters and Business Councils. 
people surveyed Sunday said they fled their homes. 
An official of Japan Railway Tokai, speaking on condition of anonymity, said 117,000 people were affected as more than 100 high-speed "bullet" trains leav­ing from or arriving in Tokyo were delayed by up to 2 hours and 45 minutes or canceled. Another 110,000 were inconve­nienced by delays on local lines, officials added. 
Bullet trains stopped again for about 20 minutes in the afternoon for track inspections after a minor earthquake of 3.5 on the Richter scale hit at Ajiro, about 50 miles southwest of Tokyo. 
Sunday morning's major quake was centered about 50 miles under Tokyo Bay, and about 16 miles south of the capital. 
An earthquake measuring 5 on the Richter scale can cause considerable damage if the epi­center is close to ground level; one measuring 6 can cause se­vere damage. 

SPECIAL CHINFSE sa 95 r-.FIII4•.tt.:ao~oo.­
wu. h~ 5 .• 5.00-8:00 .. 

NEW YEAR BUFFET • .,...,.,_s..5:00p•&:oo.• 
diploma and your drive to succeed. See your Marine Corps Officer 
If you've got what it takes, you Selection Officer when he visits your could be at the controls of anything campus or call him, at from a Cobra to a Harrier to the the number listed hottest thing flying, the F-18 Hornet. below, today. ~~~~~


--,4~ 
Application dealine: March 1, 1992 Incentives available for early commitment 

Capt. Tom O'Connel will be at the LaFortune Center, O'hara Lounge, tomorrow, Tuesday, Feb. 4th, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Stop by or calll-800-875-8762 
Monday, February 3, 1992 The Observer 


ND students get to play Indiana Jones in Knott Hall charity event 
By BEVIN KOVALIK section of the paper which will ceeds from the hunt to Catholic News Writer direct the participants to the Worker House in South Bend. location of the medallion. 
A buried treasure will soon be "Catholic Worker House as­lurking somewhere in the nooks "We wanted to host an event sists unemployed, catholic fami­and crannies of Notre Dame's that everyone could participate lies by giving them a place to campus. in, and one that didn't involve live until they can get back on 
Knott Hall has summoned all too much time," said Sara their feet," said Skalicky. "The curious NO students to track Skalicky, Chairman of Knott families work through the faith down a glorious olympic~sized Hall's Special Events Commit­with social programs and 
medal using five clues to the tee. counseling facilities in a reli­whereabouts of the hidden The first registered pirate to gious environment." medallion. Knott Hall's Special discover the medallion and re­"We hope to raise as much Events Committee will sponsor turn it to Sara Skalicky of 419 money as we can by selling the Notre Dame's first annual Knott Hall will win a dinner for buttons at a dollar a piece," Charity Medallion Hunt to help four at Tippecanoe Restaurant, said Skalicky. support Catholic Worker House Luxury Limousine service to Participants in the hunt must in South Bend. and from dinner, and a travel­not destroy University property 
ling plaque for his or her dorm. and cannot claim the prize 
Beginning today, students can without registering with the register for the hunt by buying "Knott Hall doesn't have a purchase of a button, said "Kiss Me I'm Irish" buttons for traditional event to put us on Skalicky. The medallion will be $1 at lunch ir1 North and South the map," said Skalicky. "The hidden in easily accessible ar­Dining Halls. Medallion Hunt is a different eas above the ground, but per­
During the week of February idea that hasn't been done on haps underneath snow piles or 10-14, The Observer will pub­campus before." leaves. It will not be concealed lish clues in the "Of Interest" Knott Hall will donate pro-inside buildings. 

DISMAS HOUSE 
A community of support, reconciliation and adjustment, Dismas House offers a unique opportunity for Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students to share in a life-training experience w1th former prisoners. Together an environment of trust. friendship and hope can be built to provide the confidence and courage necessary for each to enter society as a valuable and integral member ­
Are you interested in living in the Dismas community next semester? 
Applications available at the Center for 
Social Concerns. See: Kathy Royer --239­
7862, or call Br. Bonaventure Scully -­
239-7353, or call Oismas House --· 233­
8522 


page 7 
The Observer/Pat McHugh

Getting their kicks 
Notre Dame juniors Tina Wojciechowski (left) and Ann Marie Grave get their "kicks" watching Matt Moore take advantage of unsea­sonably warm weather Saturday by donning a pair of shorts. 
NO cable TV show wins award 
Special to The Observer appearing on the program, parts of which were filmed on The 34th annual New York location in the Middle East, International Film and Televi­were Father Paul Bradshaw sion Festival recently awarded and Roger Brooks, professors of 
a program produced for public theology, and Father Patrick and cable television by the Uni­Gaffney, associate professor of versity of Notre Dame. anthropology.
"Religions of the Book: Holy Previous "Life Choices" pro­Places and Pilgrimages" was grams have won the prestigious cited for outstanding achieve­Gabriel award for religious ment in religious television television programming, as well programming. The program, as a silver medal from the 
one of four dealing with Chris­Council for the Advancement tian, Jewish and Muslim beliefs, and Support of Higher Educa­was part of the University's tion. "Today's Life Choices" series. Notre Dame is believed to be 
The series is completing its the only American college or third season on VISN, a na­university producing regulartionwide interfaith cable net­programming for cable and work, and is also broadcast on public television. "Today's Life more than 50 PBS stations Choices" is produced for the across the country. University by Golden Dome 
Notre Dame faculty members Productions, South Bend, Ind. 
Better Late Than Never Happy 21st Birthday Maggie Kostolansky 

Love ••. Mom, Dad, David Paul&Julie 
LondO.. Sl7s• Brussels $51 o• Pans Ss1s• Rome $565• Atbcas S61s• 

•r.ns•era.ndtrip fi"om Chica90 basedon ~· TaKes not nduded reslridions apply. C411 b other 'Mrldwic::le I destNOOni, baCh one Wll( ll'ld rCUldlrip. 

CoUncil TnMd 
1153 N. Drabcm St., 91d tloor 
~.1160610 

311·951·0585 
Call For A Free 1992 Student 
Travel Catalog! 

page 8 The Observer Monday, February 3, 1992 




Harkin appeals to Jews; Buchanan· slams Bush 
MANCHESTER, N.H. (AP}­

Democratic presidential candi­
date Tom Harkin appealed for 
Jewish support Sunday by 
promising to side with Israel in 
the Mideast peace process. Ri­
val Hill Clinton defended his gu­
bernatorial record against in­
creasingly frequent attacks as 
he maintains his lead. 
On the Hepubliean side, chal­lenger Patrick Buchanan said President Hush has "a basic lack of conviction" that has led him to abandon conservative principles and shy away from fights with Congress. 
Vice President Dan Quayle ended a New Hampshire swing by attending Mass and drop­ping by a coffee shop. 
The state's voters apparently are beginning to pay closer at­tention, as the candidates draw ever bigger crowds before the lead-off primary that will help define the rest of the campaign. 
Although party leaders in Washington believe Clinton's campaign was hurt by a woman's allegations in a paid tabloid interview that she had a 12-year affair with the Arkansas governor. he has held steady or risen in New Hamp­shire polls. Few voters at can­didate rallies say they were in­fluenced by the furor. 
Senate Majority Leader Ge­orge Mitchell, D-Maine, speak­ing on NBC's "Meet the Press" NEW YORK (AP) -Seventy 
percent of Americans in a poll 
released Sunday said informa­
tion about a candidate's private 
behavior, including extramari-. 
tal affairs, should be kept from 
voters out of respect for pri­
vacy. 
Only 25 percent of the 1,000 

adults in the Time·CNN poll 
taken Thursday said the lnfor· 
mation should be reported. 
By 73 percent to 11 percent, those who expressed an opinion said the same standards should apply to all candidates, as opposed to the private behavior of one candidate who has been a subject of rumors. 
said the storm had hurt Clin­ton's candidacy. 
But he said, "I think Governor Clinton will weather this difficult period. Indeed, it ap­pears that he has." 
At the close of a rally for Clinton in Nashua, laid-off clerk Ken Doucette told him: "I am here to say to you that New Hampshire does not get broken by the Star (tabloid). You are a · strong candidate. Go for it. Go for it." 
A new Time-CNN poll shows most voters agree. Only 25 per­cent of the 1,000 adults sur-

Serbs accept U.N. plan, but rebel leader is absent 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) . -Serb leaders Sunday offered assurances that U.N. peace­keepers can be deployed in Croatia, but a defiant rebel chief did not sign the pact and apparently remains opposed to international intervention. 
The Belgrade-based news agency Tanjug reported the ac­cord was reached after 40 hours of debates between eth­nic Serb leaders from Croatia and senior Serbian officials. A declaration said the Yugoslav presidency "guarantees ... un­hindered arrival and activity" of 
U.N. peacekeepers. 
But Milan Babic, leader of the Serb enclave of Krajina in western Croatia, did not attend 
Poll: Most oppose smutty campaign coverage 

the final talks. Mile Paspalj, who heads the Krajina parlia­ment, signed on behalf of the region, home to most of Croa­tia's 600,000 ethnic Serbs. 
A Krajina officiai told The Associated Press that Krajina's government did not accept the 
U.N. plan and Paspalj acted on his own. The official spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Babic has vowed not to dis­arm his irregular troops or al­low any peacekeeping troops in Krajina. Babic attended earlier rounds of the negotiations on the U.N. plan, which started Friday. 
The United Nations has said all parties must endorse the 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
10 STUDENTS PER CLASS 100 HOURS OF LIVE INSTRUCTION 50 HOURS OF LIVE TUTORIAL NATIONAL 800 TELEPHONE HELPLINE 3 COMPUTER-SCORED DIAGNOSTIC TESTS SCIENCE FLASH CARDS MATERIALS WRITTEN BY PH.D.S 8: M.D.S 
SOUTH BEND 273-1866 


Half said editors should ig­nore a charge made by another news organization, 42 percent said editors should check it out before reporting it, and only 4 percent thought it was proper to report it without checking. 
The poll was taken after the nation's major news organiza­tions reported unsubstantiated allegations in a supermarket tabloid that Democratic presi­dential candidate Bill Clinton had a 12-year affair with Gen­nifer Flowers. 
Clinton, the Arkansas gover­nor. denied the allegations. 
The poll asked whether re· spondents were less likely to vote for Clinton because of 
veyed said information about a candidate's private behavior should be reported. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. 
As Harkin and Clinton cam­paigned in New Hampshire, Nebraska Sen. Bob Kerrey, well back in the polls with Harkin, scrapped plans to take a day off. and scheduled evening events in the lead-off primary state. 
After going to church and breakfast in Manchester, Harkin met with a small group from New Hampshire's Jewish community at the home of Ed questions raised about his character. Sixteen percent said yes. A majority, 62 percent, said the allegations won't affect their support of him. Ten percent said they are more likely to vote for him because he has been treated unfairly in the press. 
However. an ABC News· Washington Post poll of 769 Americans on Wednesday found 54 percent said that if Clinton did not tell the truth then he should withdraw from the race. 
The margins of sampling er· ror are plus or minus 3 per­centage points for the Time­CNN poll and 4 points in the ABC-Post poll. 
and Hilda Fleisher. 
There, the liberal Iowan 
skipped much of his standard 
economic speech to focus on 
foreign policy. Harkin said he 
favored keeping the Middle East 
peace process going, but said 
the United States should side 
with Israel. 
He also said any agreement should include democratic re­forms in the Arab states, which he said were the region's ag­gressors and should not be al­lowed to purchase more U.S. weapons. 
"So, should we be even­
handed there?" Harkin said of 
the peace process. "I've always 
said 'nonsense.'" 
Clinton ended Saturday with 
crowded rallies in Derry and 
Concord. On Sunday. he held 
packed events in Nashua and 
Manchester before heading to 
Maine for more campaigning. 
Harkin and Kerrey are now takin·g shots at Clinton's gu­bernatorial record, saying Arkansas lags in such areas as environmental protection and workplace safety. 
''I'm the first one to admit my state is not free of problems," Clinton told reporters. He con­ceded that in his first term in the double-digit unemployment of the late 1970s, he may have sided with business more than environmental groups because of fears more jobs would leave his state. That, he said, proved the need for national environ­mental standards. 
To his crowds.' Clinton said: "For 11 years, I got up every day and I went to bat. I went to bat and I made the tough deci­sions and I did my best to keep us heading in the right direc­tion." 
Buchanan interrupted New Hampshire campaigning to ap­pear on CBS' "Face the Na­tion," where he said Bush's State of the Union promises were timid and politically moti­vated. 

plan before it will send peace­keepers. 
On Saturday, the Serb insur­gents from Croatia had flatly rejected the U.N. peace plan, stoking fears that civil war could erupt again after a month-old truce. 
Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic and federal military leaders have supported the de­ployment of peacekeepers. 
The Serb-dominated federal army helped Serb irregulars capture a third of Croatian ter­ritory in six months of fighting after Croatia and neighboring Slovenia declared independence June 25. At least 10,000 people are estimated to have died. 
A U.N.-brokered cease-fire has largely held since Jan. 3, although minor violations have been reported almost daily. 

Krajina Serbs, who oppose being part of an independent Croatia, have demanded that 
U.N. forces be deployed along the cease-fire line and not in­side the enclave. The Croatian government strongly opposes that because it would solidify Serb control of the area. 
Fears have grown that if peacekeepers are not deployed soon, war could break out again and spread to neighboring Bosnia-Hercegovina, home to an explosive mix of Slavic Muslims, Orthodox Serbs and Roman Catholic Croats. 
E. & J. Gallo Winery Informational Session 


February 4, 1992 
Morris Inn The Notre Dame Room 6:00P.M. 
This Presentation is For All Students Currently on The Gallo Interview Schedule 
Any Other Interested Parties Welcome 
-----------~­




Business 
page9 Monday, February 3, 1992 
Bush's health reform plan aims to control medical costs 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Secre­tary of Health and Human Ser­vices Louis Sullivan said Sunday that President Bush's health re­form plan will give a new push to managed care to bring spi­ralling costs under control. 
Sullivan said the plan, which Bush is expected to announce in detail Thursday in Cleveland, will be fully paid for. 
Americans will spend more than $800 billion on health care this year, and Bush said in his State of the Union address that the health bill could double to $1.6 trillion by 2000. 
Bush said he would propose tax credits of up to $3,750 per family to help poor and middle class families buy health insur­ance. He also promised changes to allow workers to switch jobs without losing coverage, make insurance more affordable for small businesses and lower malpractice costs. 
Bush also has proposed rais­ing Medicare premiums for wealthier retirees. A Bush pro­posal to make upper-income employees pay income tax on a portion of their health insur­ance benefits was stripped from the budget when it sparked an uproar among Republican lawmakers. 

Almost 35 million Americans are uninsured, including many in families headed by someone who brings home a paycheck but has no health plan on the job. 
"We have enough money in the system," Sullivan said on ABC's "This Week with David Brinkley. "We need to spend it more wisely." 
The United States already spends $2,700 on health care for every man, woman and child in the country, twice as much as most nations, Sullivan said. 
Mitchell says budget contains 'gimmicks' 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell said Sunday that Congress will take the "gimmicks" out of President Bush's economic recovery plan and add a tax cut for the middle class. 
Mitchell denounced Bush's March 20 deadline for action as "a political ploy," but said Congress may well act before that date. 
"The Congress will act promptly because it's the right thing to do, not because of any deadline," the Maine Democrat said on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
He said Bush's $1.52 trillion budget for fiScal 1993 is "filled with gimmicks," including an accounting change that under­states the deficit by $40 billion for 1992 and 1993. 
Bush's budget forecasts record deficits of almost $400 billion this year and $351 bil­lion in 1993. 
"The first thing we'II do ... is take out the gimmicks," said Mitchell. But he said Bush also offered "some good suggestions and we'll act on them." 

Mitchell didn't elaborate on other "gimmicks." But Secre­tary of Housing and Urban De­velopment Jack Kemp used the same word Saturday to describe the tax credits and reduced withholding in Bush's plan. 
"It's no secret that I've never liked tax credits. Basically those are gimmicks," Kemp said on CNN's "Evans & Novak" show. 
Kemp said adjusting with­holding tables to allow "people another $30 a month is (not) 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••going to spur economic recov­

ery." But he lauded Bush's pro­posal to cut the capital gains tax to 15.4 percent. 
SUMMER PROGRAM 1992 
lntersession: May 25-June 12 Summer Session: June 15-July 24 
"-More than 50 regular offerings from the University's liberal arts curriculum. 
"-A three-week French language immersion program, featuring cultural walking tours and conversation sessions . "-A short course on the new Germany

INTERHALL COMPETITION FLOOR HOCKEY (Men and Women) 
culminating in a five-day study trip to Berlin. "-Weekend excursions: Normandy, Champagne, Loire Valley chAteaux, and 
DEADLINE-FEBRUARY 5 

Giverny. "-Seminar tours with the University of I~~!~~~~~~~~:W~~~~~~ Texas &the University of New
Hampshire. 

Send for our 1992

INTERHALL COMPETITION 

Summer Program Brochure: 
LACROSSE BASEBALL 
The American University of Paris Summer Programs/U.S. Office 80 East 11th Street, Suite 434 
New York, New York 10003 Tel. (212) 677-4870 Fax. (212) 475-5205

GRADIF AC/ST AFF COMPETITION 
BASEBALL 
THE
DEADLINE-FEBRUARY 28 
AMERICAN UNIVERSITY

ENTRIES BEGIN FEBRUARY 18 
OF PARIS 






STUDENT BODY & CLASS ELECTIONS MANDATORY INFO MEETINGS 
Feb. 5 9-lOp.m. 
Feb. 6 7 -8p.m. 
304 Haggar 
You Must Attend One of These Meetings if You Plan to Run! 




Viewpoint 
page 10 Monday, February 3, 1992 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Dear Editor: 
I was deeply saddened today when I read Mr. R Garr Schwartz's piece questioning the ability of thinking men and women to believe in God. It has been many years since I've thought of God as a bearded, elderly gentleman with flowing locks and stern mien who sat atop a tower of cloud assidously watching my every thought and action and waiting impatiently for my every misstep, ledger book in hand, recording my sins for future eonsideration. 
Mr. Schwarz is right in suspicioning that God may well have been invented to keep obstreperous children in line. But God, as I've eome to know him in my adult years, is better described as a guiding force, even a master plan, that sees the vast forests of the universe, not the single individual trees. It's true, as he was taught, that God takes note of each individual life. but that notice is more as a cog in a wheel, a piece of the puzzle, or a factor in an equation. 
God is a force for good, but it's not the good of a single in­dividual. The greater good that God represents is the universal good. While it is horrifying to contemplate a "senseless" acci­dent, a starving child, a victim of a cruelly crippling disease, or 
DOONESBURY 
News Editor •..•••.•.............•. Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .•••••............ Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............••. David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .....•••...........• John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
the tragic deaths of two young swimmers last week, it may truly not be horrifying to God. God may see such events in a larger perspective -totally divorced from the individual in both time and place. 
What faith requires from us is that we believe that there is such a plan. What faith gives us in return is the ability to get past the bitterness, pain, and the all-too-human tendency to attempt to assign blame. Un­less you, yourself, have at­tempted to work your way through a personal tragedy, this may indeed be a hard concept for you to swallow, but I can assure you that it is indeed a blessing to be able -to lay down the burden of assigning, or accepting, the blame in a way that absolves you of re­sponsibility and allows you to gradually let go of the tragedy. 
The faith I have descibed is not at all mystical. It is, rather, a practical faith. But oh, what an immeasurable aid it can be. Question the trappings of religion, certainly, and question any set of memorized beliefs as well. 
There are many, many religions in the world because there are many, many roads to God. But don't make the mistake of anthropomorphizing God. God is not an extraordinarily powerful human being and should not be expected to act like one. God is a concept and faith in God in­volves faith in the order of the universe. 

If the possibilty of an afterlife, or lack thereof, troubles you, you might want to consider Mr. Schwartz' friend's advice: what possible harm can it do him to believe? It is truly a no-lose proposition. 
Since we are being practical here, don't you think the idea has merit if for no other reason than it daily deters people from giving free rein to their baser instincts? Religion began, after all, with the civilization of homo sapiens. Animals have no religion, organized or personal. Only people do. And religion without faith would be ultimately useless, wouldn't it? 
Give youself a chance, Mr. Schwartz, to experience the benefits of faith. If you merely keep and open mind, you'll find it somewhere. We all have rea­sons to believe, and needs to believe. Yes, Mr. Schwarz, there is a God. And if you allow yourself to search, you too will find a reason to believe. 
Teri Haus American Studies Department Feb.1,1992 
Phonathon benefits SMC 
Dear Editor: 
I want to take this opportunity to relate my personal expe­rience to the college community as a student volunteer at the Saint Mary's Phonathon last fall which raised needed dollars for the Annual Fund. The Annual Fund supports items such as student scholarships, financial aid and faculty salaries that otherwise would go unfunded since tuition cannot cover everything. 
It is a little known fact that due to the Office of Annual Giving's new feature of aca­demic calling, the Phonathon is a great career networking tool. I spoke with two Saint Mary's 
Stolen flag symbolizes ROTC's special pledge 
Dear Editor: 
On Wednesday, Jan. 22, an American flag was hung outside the auditorium of the library. Less than an hour later, it was gone. We checked with the custodial staff, thinking someone might have picked it up. No luck. 
The flag is the property of Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC. While it is a very valuable ob­ject monetarily, it means more to us. We view the flag as a symbol of all we have pledged to defend. The military places great import in the protection of the American flag. The world over, this symbol stands 
alumnae from my major, Communications, who asked me to send them my resume. The Phonathon also has great nightly prizes and free long dis­tance phone call for all volun­teer callers who complete a mere two hours of calling. 
The next Phonathon is February 3-13, 1992 at Haggar College Center, Room 303. It's an opportunity to do some net­working, eat some free food, win super prizes and help Saint Mary's stay strong. For more information or to sign up, call 284-4706 or 284-4582 between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. Hope to see you there. 
Greer Gilliland 
Le Mans Hall 
Jan.28,1992 
for the strength and commit­ment to justice of the United States. 
For those reading this, rec­ognize that this is very serious to us. If it is a joke to you, know that someone has taken something filled with genuine meaning to us. If you know where the flag is, please return it to 229 Zahm Hall or call 283­1236. I do not care who took it or why, just so long as we get it back. 
Daniel H. Fulkerson Deputy Commander of Operations AFROTC Zahm Hall Jan.30,1992 


'The Pope will not be this year's commencement speaker.' 
Dennis Moore 
Director, Notre Dame Public Relations 
and Information 
End the rumors . . . submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

Viewpoint
Monday, February 3, 1992 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Faith means seeking God with our hearts, minds 

which,if any, is "absolutely proved." 
Schwartz says that Christian faith is, as Webster's says, "unquestioning belief that does not require proof or evidence." Schwartz's life is chock full of such "unquestioning belief." He does not and indeed cannot re­quire proof and conclusive evi­dence of everything he believes. If he cannot have conclusive proof for small things, why does he expect conclusive proof for such huge matters as God's existence, and, given that he exists, God's workings in the universe? 
Schwartz claims that the Christian faith is "ridiculous," but I have an even more ridiculous image in my mind. I don't say this meanly at all; I see myself in this image as well. In a remote corner of the immense universe, in an un­fathomable wash of almost empty space, I see a tiny speck, and that speck is our solar sys­tem. 
And on one very minute planet within it, my image miroscopes down to see another infinitesmal speck, which is Garr Schwartz. And Garr Schwartz is saying that he needs conclusive proof that the God who is credited with the creation of this expansive uni­verse by speaking a word really exists. 
I'm not suggesting that any­one become a "faithful believer, who is unquestioning and not requiring of any proof or evi­dence." That is certainly a car­icature. That was not the kind of believer that Thomas Aquinas and Augustine were. 
God, indeed, does not want us to believe illogical and unsub­stantiated things. But look deeper. The Christian's faith is not a faith that requires no evi­dence; it involves his whole mind and his whole heart, and a natural acknowledgement that he, the very small creature that he is in this amazing uni­verse, will not be able to con­clusively piece it all together without some divine assistance. 

It's good for Schwartz to vent his frustrations and doubts. At the end of the road, if it is done as genuine seeking, he will find answers in the amazing God which he now doubts. 
Schwartz implies that his own approach is not one of faith, and that belief in God is some­how the leaping off of solid ground into an abyss. I hope that he will see that there is no solid ground. To not have faith in God is to have faith in many other things for which you have no conclusive proof, and it in­volves being dwarfed into an expanse of difficult questions, which you can only "guess in 
Memorial scholarships help causes 
Dear Editor: 
On Wednesday, Jan. 29, The Observer printed a brief article in the "Today at a Glance" section. The article officially stated that the families of Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp had established scholarship fvn.J~ in the girls' names. 
Meghan's scholarship fund will benefit the University of Notre Dame. Students often complain that Notre Dame does not offer enough scholarships to incoming students. Con­tributing to Meghan's memorial fund is a Domer's chance not only to contribute to a new scholarship, but to honor Meghan's memory as well. 
Colleen's family established her scholarship fund at St. Joseph's Academy in St. Louis. As a St. Louis resident, I know first hand that "St. Joe" is a wonderful high school. This all­girls Catholic school has approximately 150 students a class and, like most Catholic girls schools, must charge a fairly high tuition. Because of Colleen's scholarship fund, a young St. Louis girl will receive an excellent, Catholic, high school education. 
What a better way to honor and remember Meghan and Colleen than by contributing to their memorial scholarships: 

Meghan Beeler Memorial Scholarship University of Notre Dame 212 Main Building Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Colleen Hipp Memorial Scholarship St. Joseph's Academy 2307 S. Lindberg Blvd. St. Louis, MO 63131 
Laurie Niemann Badin Hall Jan.30,1992 
'Cynical' column relies on reason alone 
Dear Editor: 
When I noticed A's nickname in The Observer's personal sec­tion to be "Mr. Brewtown," it came as little surprise to find that his theology reflects strong influences in the Old Milwaukee slogan, "It doesn't get any better than this." 
The argument is not new. "I will not believe what I cannot prove!" he exclaims. "Thus, I remain sane!" For those in that camp, those who believe in non­believing Christianity is just an idea stamped on our brains at birth. My personal experience denies this. 
I am not someone who grew up in a religious family. I have rarely had religious friends. Yet I adopted faith in Christianity on my own, as a result of my reasoned observations of the world. 
I used to arrive at certain principles, and then, having tested them in everyday life for their validity, I realized that the principles I thought I had discovered, Christianity had al­ready found. At that point, the limits of reason reached, and the intricately complex "key" having coincidentally (too co­incidentally) fit the intricately complex "lock," I discovered my faith. I was never "brainwashed." 
In Orthodoxy, G. K. Chester­ton has made a far more elo­quent case for faith than I ever can. Maybe Mr. A should read it, though the idea that Mr. A would even try to understand a comprehensive truth based on faith contradicts his apparent philosophy that proof, and hence reason and objectivity will govern his life. 
That he puts his faith in rea­son alone and not in God will be someday tested, and it is seem­ingly already is since in his col­umn he seems so hurt and cyni­cal in the wake of last week's tragedy. When he suddenly re­alizes that neither reason nor proof (nor for that matter, Webster's dictionary) can ade­quately explain the unexpected death of loved ones maybe he will see for himself the insanity of proof, and the limits of rea­son. And maybe then he will understand the nature of the gap that so many of us span when we make our leap of faith. 

Finally, although reason alone does not forbid Mr. A to speak his mind anytime and anywhere he pleases, I might humbly suggest that Mr. A could have more appropriately timed his decision to label Christians insane, given that so many Notre Dame Christians are now relying on their faith in God to gain strength and to heal their pain. 
James Fisfis 
Off-campus 
Feb.2,1992 
faith at." 
What is life all about? If humans aren't immortal creations of God, are we just evolved animals, the by-product of billions of years of chance physics, complicated hunks of matter, like a rock or chunk of winter ice? In the midst of tragedies in which innocent people die, what does your faith have to answer? Only some guess about how maybe we're all only collections of atoms anyway? Whatever it will be, it will just be some guess. 
There were some more defini­tions of "faith" in Webster's which Schwartz did not quote. One was "loyalty; allegiance to some person." This is the faith of Christians. We are persons and we trust in the one Person who we believe gave us our personhood, who made us in his image with love. 
Another definition is 
inside out in relationship with Him. 
So often we accept difficulties in learning another language or subject, but expect God (who knows and does infinitely more than all the textbooks and teachers in the world) to be easy to figure out. He offers us help and guidance, or we would never get anywhere. 
The amazing thing is that he whose "ways are not our ways and whose thoughts are not our thoughts" loves us, teaches us, and in grace offers us relation­ship with him. In contrast to the murky, watery faiths of the untethered guesses of finite minds, this is deep red wine. It involves pain and grief and deep searching, and it involves hope and destiny. 
Andrew Koehl Off-campus Jan.30,1992 


time of grief, mourning 
Dear Editor: 
A short time ago I lost some­one very close to me. At the time of Gabrielle's death my faith in God and in my religion was greatly shaken. I could not undersand how a loving God could take a 14 month old baby away from her family and friends. 
In an attempt to comfort me, a friend, Gabrielle's mother, gave a poem to me that some­how seemed to help with the grief. I would like to share that poem with the people whose lives were touched by Colleen Hipp and Meghan Beeler in the hopes of comforting them. 
Thy Will Be Done 
''I'll lend you for a little time a child of mine," he said, "for you to love thee while she lives and mourn for when she's dead. It may be six or seven years, or twenty-two or three, but will you 'till I call her back, take care of her for me?" 
She'll bring her charms to gladden you, and should her stay be brief, you'll have her lovely memories as solace for your grief. I cannot promise she will stay, since all on earth return, but there are lessons taught down there I want your child to learn. 
I've looked the wide world over in my search for teachers true, and from the throngs that crowd life's lanes, I have· selected you. Now will you give her all your love, not think the labor vain, not hate me when I come to take her back again? 
I fancied that I heard them say, "Dear Lord, Thy Will Be Done! For all the joy the child shall bring, the risk of grief we'll run. We'll shelter her with tenderness, we'll love her while we may, and for the happiness we've known, forever grateful stay. But should the angels call for her much sooner than we've planned, we'll brave the bitter grief than comes and try to understand." 
Patty O'Donnell Off-campus Jan.30,1992 


Accent 
page 12 Monday, February 3, 1992 
txtng 
traditions 
International Festival fosters diversity 
By ANNIE VENESKY "Cielo Azul." 
Accent Writer Troop Notre Dame, Notre Dame's own 
modern dance organization, also 
The Notre Dame International entertained the crowd with a street-style Students Organization (ISO) presented mix of contemporary hip-hop and dance an exciting display of cultural diversity music. Saturday night at Washington Hall when The Merengue, a dance that has it presented its annual International gained huge popularity in Latin and Festival Program to a capacity crowd. North America, as well as in Europe, 
Close to 150 performers, from was performed by a group of dancers countries ranging from Mexico, Spain, from the Dominican Republic. Providing and India, to the Dominican Republic, a sharp contrast to the enthusiastic Chile, Africa, and the United States, Merengue was the slower, and more shared a piece of their diverse cultures tempered, Mexican La Bruja. through a variety of native songs and A fashion show concluded the first dances. half of the International Festival, with 
The show opened up with a bit of a models wearing native designs and Another spectacular laser show weeks, according to ISO member Felix Latin flare. Following an opening laser dresses from the regions of Hawaii, capped off the exciting evening of Villalba. It is entirely student-produced, light show, performers from Mexico took Mexico, India, Egypt, Germany Algeria, entertainment and enjoyment. with over 50 people working behind the the stage and performed the Guatemala, and Korea. 
The ISO, headed by Manuel Miyar and scenes (in addition to the performers),Jarabe-otherwise known as the The second half of the program began Patricia Pumarada, is the largest student Villabla said. 
Mexican Hat Dance. They were followed with the Tinikling Dance, a native dance organization on the Notre Dame campus, The program is just one of the largeCristina and Mara Galatas' rendition of of the Philippines, and was followed by with over 800 members representing number of activities the ISO organizes to the Seuil/anas-a Native Spanish dance the Chilean dance, La Cueca Chinena, approximately 70 countries. 'promote and maintain a continuous ex­which came from Gypsy dances. the Chinese Ritual Lion Dance, the The ISO's primary goal is "the diffusion change of ideas and experiences amongHawaiian dancers then demonstrated Mexican Jarabe Nayarite, and dances of internationalism in the Notre Dame, the different cultures that arethe graceful and rhythmic dances of from East and West Africa. 
Saint Mary's, and South Bend com­represented in the Notre Dame and St.
native Hawaii, performing to the Hawaii The American Lebanese dance, the munities," according to Miyar. Mary's communities, in hopes that the Song and Pu a Hone. Then, Jackie Debka, was followed by a sizzling Latino The International Festival Program is peaceful interaction will provideBayliss and Rachel Cruz performed the Mix of the Merengue, Punta, Salsa, Latin put together in a span of less than two audiences with hope in today's world.' 
Mexican folk songs "Los Laureles" and Reggae, and the Lambada. 

'Lords of Life' explores Olmec culture-and corn 
By KYLE KUSEK with corn images. Three 'corn spots' adorn his head symbols and designs on their bodies. Accent Writer along with three corn kernels, while an Alfalfa-esque "An original contribution is the identification of a 
tuft of corn silk sprouts from his head. These all tie in previously unrecognized deity who seems to be diving 
to the fertility image of the ruler. He is the man to or crawling over the heads of figurines. The recognition 
There is nothing flippant in the statement that the art whom the gods give the blessings of fertility. of the Diving God allows the interpretation of abstract in the "Lords of Life" exhibit currently on view at the This fertility motif is further accentuated in a jade designs symbolizing his body part on the back of the Snite Museum of Art exists for the greater glory of blood-lettor in the exhibit. The blood-lettor is heads of thousands of Preclassic figures, particularly corn. beautifully shaped as a hummingbird, the shape of females," Bradley said. 
The exhibit, which opened yesterday, explores the choice for royalty when opening their veins in sacrifice Most of these abstract designs are called 'teocinte;" symbolism of corn as one of the foundations of the to the gods. There is a quasi-symbiotic relationship literally, 'green grass.' 'Teocinte' was a direct ancestor political and religious life of the Olmec culture, the between the gods and the ruler figure. The blood of corn is basically the same thing for the Olmec. Each progenitor of the cultures of middle America. The spilled by the ruler feeds the gods, who in turn endow 'teocinte' is represented on the female as a triangle medium of exploration is the sculpture; over fifty-seven the ruler with blessings of fertility in the corn. with a dot in it. This pattern is repeated over and over ceramic, stone. and jade figurines comprise the display, Bradley explained, "The fertility of the leaders flows again on each figure. The triangle is a recurring making it one of the most comprehensive exhibits of its through their blood." In addition to the small jade symbol in the sculpture, representing the 'hands of the kind. blood-lettor the collection possesses a two-foot long gods.' 
"These are some of the finest depictions of the and indeed very formidable scepter/blood-lettor, These are two major themes in the display, but this human form in the world," asserted curator Douglas broken off in places according to custom. description in no way does justice to the variety and Bradley, the man responsible for the acquisition of the In the second part of the exhibit the symbolic scope of the images in the exhibit. There are several pieces over the past six years. "The only other place possession of fertility shifts from the male ruler-figure pieces of absolutely exquisite jade, including one of you could see a collection that is as good as this one is to the female. Most of these pieces are similar in the three black jade duck bills known to man. at Princeton University." Various sculptures represent the 'Old god' and his 
The primary archaeological stress of the exhibit is ancient wife, who begat humankind, as well as the the inherent symbolism of the figurines, most of which fecund earth monster as the source of all life. There is date from the Early Preclassic Period of 1500 to 1000 a veritable plethora of different pieces in the collection, 
B.C. Part of the exhibit reiterates established beliefs including a funky little cylinder that was used to roll about the societal roles symbolized by the figurines, but out a hand print on birch bark. this display also delves into some uncharted territory This exhibit comes in a year commemoration both regarding the importance of women to the Olmec Notre Dame's sesquicentennial and the 500-year culture. anniversary of Columbus' discovery of the Americas. 
"This is some brand new stuff. We're announcing This is an appropriate time and place for the exhibit some significant new discoveries," stated an excited according to Bradley. Bradley. "I think it's very important that Notre Dame have a There are two relatively distinct parts to the pre-Columbian art collection, considering the number 
collection. The first spans the time frame from 1500 to of Latin-American students Notre Dame has and has 1300 B.C., and deals almost exclusively with male always had. Father Sorin established a precedent for ruler-figures in the Olmec culture. The second then this type of collection years ago when he brought in deals with the three-hundred odd years after 1300 and Native American art from around the country," Bradley up to 1000. This is the part that is giving rise to new said. 
conceptions of fertility symbols for the Olmec. The official title of the exhibit is "The Lords of Life: 
The figurines from that first part almost all portray The Iconography of Power and Fertility in Preclassic rulers as walking stalks of corn.· The very idea of this Mesoamerica." This is what Bradley will be speaking seems a trifle silly in today's culture, but for the male on to the public tomorrow from 12:10 to 12:55 p.m. in ruler-figure corn was the overriding symbol of power. the East Gallery of the Snite. One stone piece has a ruler completely decked out in "You don't need to know about the iconography to his 'ritual ball-player' outfit ('ritual ball-playing" being come in and enjoy some of the wonderful pieces of a sacred and religious sport played by bumping a sculpture here," said Bradley. "We want people, 
rubber ball with various and sundry body parts, an primarily students, to come in and see what this exhibit event that Bradley likened to attending mass Saturday has to offer. What you get when you come in is a look afternoon in the House that Rock Built). into the hearts of these 3500 year old people through 
The ruler's 'uniform' for this game is resplendent the symbolism of their art." 

Accent
Monday, February 3, 1992 page 13 
Going tor the 

Late Night Olympics raises hopes and money for the Special Olympics 
Raising spirits as well as approximately $3,000, the 6th 
annual Late Night Olympics was held last Friday night to 
benefit the St. Joseph County Special Olympics. 
About 1 ,000 people were involved in the competitions, which included 3-on-3 basketball, indoor soccer, broomball, volleyball, Whiffie ball, and Nerf football. 
The Sorin/Walsh team walked away with first prize: a pizza party that will be given before spring break, at which the medals they earned will be awarded. 
The Lewis/Stanford team, which had been champion for the last 5 years, placed second. 
"I'd like to thank everyone involved for their good sportsmanship and patience," said Pat Flynn, the organizer of Late Night Olympics. "There were a lot of people working and running around until 3:30 in the morning." 
Flynn said that this was the first year that representatives from St. Joseph County Special Olympics were present, and he hopes that next year some of the Special Olympics athletes themselves will be involved. 

The Observer I Pat McHugh (Above) 3-on-3 basketball was one of the more ruthless competitions at the 
Late Night Olympics last Friday night. (Above left) Friends gathered to raise 
money for Special Olympics-and to have some fun. (Below left) Ping-Pong 
was one of the less ruthless competitions at the Olympics. (Below) 
, 
r 
Monday, February 3, 1992

SCOREBOARD
page 14 
NBA STANDINGS AP TOP 20 
EASTERN CONFERENCE WESTERN CONFERENCE l. DulcL> 07-0) be~t Oemoon JJ2-73; beat No. 23 12. Syncuoe (15-3) lost to Provldencr 87-73; beat
Atlantic Dlvlalon Mldweat Dlvlalon 
Florida State 75~ beat Notre Dame 1()().71. Seton HoD 70-67. 
w L Pet. w

CE L Per. CE 2. UCLA 05-1) lost to No. 25 Southern Cal 86-13. Michigan State 04-3) loot to No. 15 New York 
28 16 .636 Utah 30 17 .638 82; beat No. 24 Louisville 7S-64. Michigan 89-79. OT; beat No. 4lndlana 76-ro. Boston 27 18 .600 1 1/2 San Antonio 26 18 .591 2 1/2 3. Oklahoma State (20.0) beat Southern 14. Kentucky (1.5-5) beat Mlsslsslppi96-78; loot to Philadelphia 23 23 .500 6 Houston 24 20 .545 4 1/2 Methodist 64-.53; beat No. 8 Missouri 84-61. LSU74-53. Miami 21 Denver 4. Indiana 05-3) beat Purdue !06-65; lost to No. 15. Michigan (12-5) beat No. 13 Michigan State 
24 
.467 7 1/2 17 26 .395 11 New Jer~~ey 19 Dallas 13 Michigan State 76-ro. 89-79, OT; lost to No. 10 Ohio State 6S-58.

26 
.422 9 1/2 13 31 .295 15 1/2Waohlngton 15 29 .341 13 Minnesota 7 37 .159 21 


5. Kansas (16-1) beat Marquette 85-61; beat No. 16. Tulane (16-1) beat Southern M1..1..ippi 9S­

112 
18 Oklahoma 96-95. 86.

Orlando 11 34 .244 17 1/2 P.clllc Division 6. Connecticut (16-2) beat Villanova 72-58; lost 17. N.C. Charlotte (15-3) lost to Butler 87-84; beat
Central Dlvlalon Portland 
30 13 .698 to St. John's 90.57. No. 24 Louisville 77-68, OT; beat Southern Chicago 36 7 .844 Golden State 28 1 3 .683 7. Arkansas 0 7-3) did not play. Mississippi 77-69. Cleveland 30 13 .698 7 Phoenix 30 16 .652 1/2 8. Missouri (14-3) lost to No. 3 Oklahoma State 18. Oklahoma (14-4) beat Nebraska 79-76; beat Detroit 26 20 LA Lakers 27 84-61. Texas Southern 110.85; lost to No.5 Kansas 9&­
.565 12 1/2 16 .628 3 
A!lanta 23 22 .511 15 Seattle 22 24 .478 9 1/2 9. Arizona 05-3) beat Oregon 104-53; beat 95. Oregon State 86-58. 19. Texos-EI Paso (11>-3) lost to Utah 57-54; lost to
Milwaukee 21 23 .477 16 1/2 LA Clippers 21 24 .467 10 !0. Ohio State 04-3) beat Illinois 74-72; beat No. Brigham Young 8Q.63.
Indiana 17 28 .378 21 Sacramento 14 30 .318 16 1/2 
15 Michigan 6S-58. 20. Georgia Tech (15-6) beat College ofCharlotte 12 32 

.273 25 1/2 II. North Carolina 05-3) beat No. 20 Georgia Charleston 77-70; lost to No. II North Carolina Tech 86-76. 86-76. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds

Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

PM. CALL PAUL AT 283·1307 OR 4-8 BEDROOM HOUSES FOR Jamaica, Bahamas including or Lisa 283-4667 P.S. Is it's any consolation, we could RETURN IT TO THE CSC IF RENT FOR 92-93. HURRY, NOT airfare, great hotel, and much more or 1-800-638-6786. see it from th elast row.NOTICES FOUND. MANY LEFT. SECURITY from only $599. Buy from the #1 NOTE: IF YOU SIGNED UP TUES. SYSTEMS, KEGERATORS. name you trust for quality vacations. AT SOH, YOU NEED TO SIGN UP 287-4989. FOUR SEASONS We've been helping to meet the Dearest Santa Claus and USED TEXTBOOKS! AGAIN. CALL 283-2622 & LV. 1-800-331-3136. needs of gay, lesbian and bisexual Richmeister, Buy & Sell Books NAME & ID NO. students and their friends for almost Thank you so much for your lovely Pandora's Books FOR RENT: 3 BD HOUSE 1 BTH 20 years. Write us with your personals last week. I am sure the -3 blks. from ND TRILEVEL ON 5 ACRES. 10 MIN. ADOPT -Devoted father, full-time questions or suggestions. whole campus enjoyed reading 233-2342/10-5:30 M-Sun FOUND: ring near Farley & BP. FROM CAMPUS $500.00 MO. 1ST mother seek newborn to join family. CONFIDENTIALITY about my remedial scanning Call x4092 to identify. LAST+ SEC. 684-3778. We promise your baby love and GUARANTEED! abilities. Oh Santa. what happened understanding, a good education & to your other two ho's? VALENTINE GLAMOUR. Give the fun. Supportive grandparents. GLI@/SMC, Box 194, Notre Dame, best valentine of all YOURSELF! Lost: Eye glasses and/in a black BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Legal. Call Bev & Howard IN 46556 Love. Me GLAMOUR portraits by nationally soft case. Lost on 1/29 possibly 219-291-7153. COLLECT 914-235-3917. published model photographer. between Flanner and JACC. PS Rich thank you so much for Free brochure. Joe Ringer. 287-Contact Joe at x-1581 Jane YOU IGNORANT MISS going as far and as long as you did 0613. HOMES FOR RENT CAMPUS BANDS WANTED TO GUIDED SLUT! last night. It took you a while to get WALK TO CAMPUS AUDITION FOR PROFESSIONAL started, but the result was 232-3616 QUALITY MUSIC VIDEO. PLEASE satisfactory. SPRING BREAK DAYTONA LOST: Gold chain with hall CALL 283-3710 BY FEBRUARY 11. Monk: selective blindness for 15 Stay Where the Action is ....... heart pendant. Monday years makes me wonder: what Oceanfront accomodations /701 evening between SOH & JACC. Downtown Mishawaka office for can't you see, now?-Michael ••• waah WAAH waah WAAH ••• South Nightclub. (as seen on MTV) VERY SENTIMENTAL!!! lease (studio, lawyers, doctors, etc.) To all the Safe H's: from $75.00. 18 and older Call Ryan x1134. 900 sq. ft.(4.85 per sq. ft.) $365 a Tom, Steve, Andy A, Oil, welcome. Call today 1-800-633-month. Call272-6877. and Beta Jeff. garth brooks is an overrated OLE T (the gas pimp) AND RICH­7010. Would you work me? drugstore cowboy. Lost: sterling silver ring I'D work me. -Willie, Waylon, and the boys JUST A LITTLE REMINDER with gold plating on front Bed & Breakfast for N.D./ St. Mary's (BBRRRRRRRPHFFFFFFF/111!1) ABOUT DRUNKEN NEW and round blue lapis stone. families. 2 bedrooms, private bath. ORLEANS DECADENCE. ATTENTION: SPRING BREAKERS Sentimental value. If found, Ten minutes from campus. Safest 7TH ANNUAL MR. STANFORD THANKS FOR BEING PART OF INTERESTED IN please call at X2948. neighborhood in area 234-2626. George Loves Rachel CONTEST. FEB 8TH. 7:30 P.M. ITII Tom Loves Maul WASHINGTON HALL CANCUN $460 Hal TICKETS CAN BE PURCHASED K, K, &J BAHAMAS $279 LOST 1/29 BTWN PE & JACC or at "CLOSE TO CAMPUS 5 AT LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE OR 
SO. PADRE $199 DePaul gm :gold neclace w/2 BEDROOM FUNISHED HOUSE. 5 IN STANFORD HALL ROOMS 119 DAYTONA $250 charms-"A" &lg"#l" If found Call OR 6 STARTING AUGUST '92 SPFliNGBREAK SAILING AND 223 FOR $3.00. ALL ••• waah WAAH waah WAAH" .. 
PANAMA CITY $99 1715 of great personal value. AND/OR THIS SUMMER. DRIVE BAHAMAS 48ft Luxury Yachts! PROCEEDS BENEFIT LOGAN BY 605 N. ST PETER. FOR Groups of 6. Seven Days Barefoot CENTER. DETAILS AND TO SEE CALL 289-Sailing The Bahamas. All Inclusive This years' contestants include: The Cap 'n Cork .............. .. 
CONTACT LANCE @ 271-1681 6146. With Cabin & Meals $488 Each. I. Mike Donnino Need I say more? 
WANTED 

CALL ANYTIME. 1-800-999-7245. 2. Bill Kempf Thanks for a tun birthday 
3. Kevin Monahan EARN UP TO $2000/MONTH 4. Joel Link 
PROCESSING HUD/FHA FOR SALE SPRING BREAK TO FLORIDA 5. Chris Peterson To those perverted few who have TYPING AVAILABLE REFUNDS IN YOUR SPARE TIME BEACHES. FUN IN THE SUN, COME CHEER ON YOUR chosen to harrass Stacy Jones 287-4082. AS A U.S GOVERNMENT CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 4/RM. prices. Daytona $149, FAVORITE STUDS !!! regarding the appearance of her 
TRACER. CALL THE U.S 89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50, Panama City $139 Kitch, Wtrtrt & name in las I week's paper ..... get GOVERNMENT TRACERS 87 MERCEDES $100. 65 Trans Available. Call CMI at 1-800· your minds out of the gutter, it was SUMMER JOBS HOTLINE AT 303-949-2174. 24 MUSTANG $50. Choose from 423-5264. POOH BEAR, When can I rub your nothing more than a simple joke. 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS HOURS. thousands starting $25. FREE 24 tummy again? PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS Hour Recording Reveals Details LOVE, ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR 801-379-2929 Copyright# WHO IS THE REAL LIZARD KING? your honeypot LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-786-CAMPUS BANDS WANTED TO 1N11KJC OF COURSE. ... IT'S BOSKI! 8373 AUDITION FOR PROFESSIONAL 
QUALITY MUSIC VIDEO. PLEASE Irish Music and Dance CALL 283-3710 BY FEBRUARY 11. Need any house PAINTING done? 7 NIGHTS ON SOUTH PADRE Every Tuesday at Club 23 
FAST EASY INCOME I Experienced, quality painting FROM $199-CALL JAMES 277-SEAMAISIN Earn I OO's Weeekly Stuffing at reasonable prices. Call Mark at 9249 envelopes. Send self-addressed need ride to PITT for JPW.will help 277-6578. stamped envelope to: Extra income! w/ gasftoll.liffany X3861 Driving to NYC for Spring Break? 
P.O. Box 811699 Chicago, IL MORRISSEY FILM FESTIVAL Have room for two lovely ladies? 60681-1699 
We'll help pay for gas. Call x2648 ND-SMC couple '81 offering FREE TICKETS Start making your movies for the ROOM AND BOARD for part-time 4th annual Film-Fest. 
URBAN PLUNGERS of this year summer help with toddlers. Need to buy CASH PRIZE for winner. michael -bologna sandwiches and 
and past years are invited to Barrington, IL area. Call 708-428-NO vs MICH beef jerky, that's what I've seen for join in conversation and a 1051. B-Balltix It will be on February 28th 15 years -monk question and answer period Pat#3360 with films due the 23rd. 
with Low Nanni and Mary Yu Check with your hall president lo be on Monday, February 3, 6:30 SUMMER JOBS II Camp your dorm's rep. or call 3593 for Because dulac gives you what you to 7:30 PM in the TV Lounge Birchwood and Gunflint Wilderness NEED 3 TICKETS FOR ND-MICH more info. want-of Siegfried Hall. Camp, two of Minnesota's finest B-BALLII Because it's a ploy­
summer youth camps, seek college CALL BETH 284·4409. MORRISSEY FILM FESTIVAL Because we vetoed it. students to work as counselors and instructors. Employment June 8 to 
LOST/FOUND 
August 13. For an application and NEED 4 ND-MICH B-BALL TIXS. Jodi, Jill, and Emily, raff, you are missed. 
interview call 1-800-451-5270. CALL JOHN 273-9165 We were impressed with the way LOST a pair of clear pink you handled the an automatic. Now glasses in a pink case we want to know how you handle a LOOKING FOR THE PERFECT between Galvin and Farley $40,000/YRI READ BOOKS and Need Mich-ND stick/ VALENTINES DAY GIFT? on 1/21 If found please call TV Scripts. Fill out simple tix in a BIG way/ -The Hitchhikers from Dillon REMEMBER ED-MAN/ 
Carolyn X4053 "like/don't like" form. EASYI Fun, Derek X1374 provides hours of entertainment he relaxing at home, beach, vacations. or x1373 knows eveything;what he doesn't 
Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 hey nil he'll find out-he's ED-MAN/ need a 
TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS FOUND: Mini 35 mm camera outfit. Hour Recording 801-379-2925 favor?no problem just make sure 
1·800·321·5911

Was found just before Christmas Copyright #INti KEB Need NO-Michigan Basketball you repay him. want a date from ~~~ break. Call Joe at x1208. Ticket STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA SMC? no problem he knows them .,...... ~--~ __ ._,....,__ Gimmee a call Chris at Info on semester, year, graduate, all-he's ED-MAN! want security?no YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK x2546 summer arid internship programs in problem-he's ED-MAN/ THIS FOUND: MONEY IN HUDDLE. SEE TO LIVE I DO IT RIGHT/ SPRING Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and VALENTINES DAY OR ANY DAY 
£i.DICI !rutQ! lBJite@bl cs

ONE OF THE MANAGERS IN THE BREAK IN JAMAICNCANCUN, Melbourne. Programs start at REMEMBER-ED-MAN! call HUDDLE TO CLAIM. FROM $4291 INCLUDES HOTEL, I NEED 4 LOWER SEAT TICKETS $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. 1800MYEDMAN! 
Key West Sucks 

AIR, TRANSFERS. FOR NO-MICHIGAN BASKETBALL 
Skiing is too cold

SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-GAME. FOUND, 1/28: money, in Lafortune. 7710. Call Lynn at x4940. The Lizard King lives on! Down with Hey Sexy Steve! I hope you are 
Get on your own perty 

Call X1678. the Crustaceans! having a great day and are enjoying 
plene to Cencun, Me xi co 

this personal. Love, Marten SPRING BREAK '92. Daytona, 
Ccncun $475/Plcne, Hotel 

Found: A set of keys on a Notre $149, Cancun $489, Bahamas PERSONAL FAX MACS Fax your Mac 
Padre S 199/Condo 

Dame key chain outside the JACC $449. documents for $1 page. Free To Mr. Tom Lillis, Bchomcs $279/Crulse
last Friday night. To claim call Best prices & accommodations INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. campus pick-up of your disk. Call On the behalf of the entire Notre x2963 guaranteedll! I (800) 724-1555 or Good rates. Save Money. Call me Michael at 237-1864. Dame/ Saint Mary's community, I 
Panama C1ty, Fl $99/Hotel 

Daytona Beach $250/Bus, Hotel 289-1993. Office near campus. Thursday night's Keenan Revue so LOST: SIGN-UP SHEET FOR A Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days enjoyable and sooo eye-opening. 
236-5825 (24 hrs.) for a quote 9:30-6:00, would like to thank you for making 
Coll Lonce ot 271-168 1

WEDNESDAY LUNCHFAST $2791 Panama City $99, Padre We all saw a saide of you that few BETWEEN SOUTH DINING HALL FOR RENT SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER $199, Cancun $499, Jamica $399 people get to see. AND CSC ON TUES., 1/28, AT 1 VACATIONS I from Chicago. Call Lance 271-1681 


Monday, February 3, 1992 The Observer page 15 
Cameron crowd roared in protest.

Dukies SMC basketball wins Game 
continued from page 20 
of rhythm and humor to the old gym. Though some left their senses of good taste in their dorm rooms. 
Remarks about Ellis' grades grew tiresome, as did those re­ferring to the tough assignment drawn by Joe and Jon Ross. 
Despite these merciless and unfair attacks, the Duke stu­dents earned respect even from those that they lampooned. 
"They always have a great crowd and they're a big factor in games," said Elmer Bennett. "They can affect the way you play and sometimes they can affect the refs. But that's Duke for you." 
In fairness to the game's offi­cials, calls went both ways in Saturday's contest. But on at least one occasion, a very questionable intentional foul on Jon Ross, officials met to dis­cuss the call only after the 
And roar they did. Unlike those of many big-time basket­ball arenas, Cameron's architects did not consider acoustics. They didn't consider anything but basketball. 
Cameron Indoor Stadium is not a stadium. It isn't even an arena. 
Simply put, Cameron is a gymnasium. With a capacity of 9,314, the Duke gym is smaller than New Castle (In.) High School's (9,325), and is but half the size of archrival North Carolina's Dean Dome (21,444). 
Cameron plays like a high school gym. When Cameron is empty, it even smells like your high school gym. The sounds are similar (but louder), and the playe-rs can hear every fan's comment. 
And the crowd makes sure that it gets its points across to support its team, demoralize its opponents and make Cameron home to the Blue Devils and college basketball mania. 
was when we played hockey the 

Puck 
way we know how," said Ferris State coach Bob Mancini. "Early 

continued from page 20 
on they got us away from what a goal by left wing Jeff Jestast. we like to do, but when weThe Irish were forced to play played physical, we took over

catch-up, and pulled Louder 
the game. Mazzoli made thefrom the net with 1:29 left in saves he had to make to win." 

the game. Notre Dame, which is slated to
Yet strategy became disaster begin CCHA play next season,for Notre Dame. Bulldog winger has gone winless in 16 contestsTim Christian stole the puck in against CCHA teams, includingthe Irish zone and buried an Ferris State. The Bulldogs now empty net shot with 51 seconds lead the all-time series with the left to play. 
Irish 11-2-1, and are 9-0-1 in the last ten games against"For us, the key to this game Notre Dame. 

StudentGoiuenmentn....v.,,_..1s 
'V' r1~1 "' APtiiiC Fonmon('~, Issues 
"""' IIYIIIIJVIUI Y 

Presidentand Chief Executive Officer UnitedNegro CoUege Fund 
During Mr. Gray's tenure in the House of Representatives, he became the first black Member ofCongress to hold a position in the House leadership. 
''Challenges, Changes and 
last second thriller 
By CHRIS BACON Sports Writer 
It was a scene from the movies. The seconds are ticking off the clock, Saint Mary's is down by one point against cross-state rival Saint Francis. From the outside, junior guard Kristen Crowley hits the three point jumper, leading the Belles to a 6 7-65 victory Friday night. 
"It was quite a feeling," ex­plained Crowley. "It was just fortunate that the shot went in. It was important that we were in the game so that my shot would count." 
"The game was back and forth. But in the last quarter they took the lead. We missed easy shots. We came through at the end and won it," Belles coach Cromer said. 
In unfamiliar territory and still shaking from Wednesday night's disastrous meeting against Northeastern Illinois 
University, the Belles went to Saint Francis determined to walk away with the victory. The Belles shot 42 percent from the field, but only 64 percent from the field. 
Seniors Catherine Restovich, 
forward, and Kim Holmes led the Belles offensive scoring with 15 points each. Senior forward Janet Libbing chipped in 14 points. Crowley added another nine, including the winning 
three point goal. 
The Belles opened up the game with the first shots. Saint Francis stayed with the Belles offensively, exchanging baskets. The Belles fast break broke up in the end of the first half as Saint Francis opened up a seven point lead. The Belles left 
• the half trailing 32-39. 
: In the second half, the Belles jumpstarted their fast break, six minutes of action. The two teams struggled for control and the lead for the remainder of the game. In the last minute of the game, Saint Francis lead the Belles 64-62. Crowley penetrated the circle and tied the game with 15 seconds remaining. Saint Francis had the opportunity to seal the victory, but sophomore Liz Vernaco broke the play, fouling her opponent. Unable to convert the two shots, the Belles were given another opportunity to steal the victory. Senior forward Catherine Restovich rebounded the missed foul, drove the ball up court to Crowley. Seeing her shot, Crowley sunk the three point jumper at the buzzer for the Belles 6 7-65 victory. 
"Everyone went crazy. It was quite a game," Crowley said. "We played as a team and that's how you win. As a team!" 
"The whole time we were working so hard that it had to come out in our favor," ex­plained Restovich. "We've had other games like this, close, and it didn't go our way. It was good for the team and it was good for our coaches." 
Tonight the Belles host cross­town rivals Bethel College at 7 pm at the Angela Athletic Facilities. The Belles have beaten the Pilots in all six matchups. Last season, the Belles trounced the Pilots 87­
65. Despite these past outings, the Belles are prepared for an aggressive matchup. 
In their 74-80 loss to Trinity College on Saturday, Bethel's Kelly Moran chipped in 33 points, and grabbed 10 re­bounds. Heidi Copsey tallied 20 
cl·o-s-in_g-th_e_i_r_d_e_fi_•c-it-in-th_e_fi_r_s_t_m_o_re_p_om_·_ts-fo_r_t_h_e_P_i_lo_t_s·----, 
Happy 20th Birthday Leah! 
The meet was postponed due to

L-------------------------the swim team bus accident. 
continued from page 20 
tion for us," said MacLeod. "The game was out of reach with five minutes left, so we put in our freshman. It was an op­portunity to get valuable play­ing time." 
Duke considerably outre­bounded Notre Dame on both ends of the court. The Irish had five offensive rebounds to Duke's 17 defensive boards. 
"They really beat us up on the offensive boards, and whenever that happens you can't expect to win," said LaPhonso Ellis, who finished with 18 points on 7-of-11 shooting from the field. Bennett also tallied 18 for the Irish. 
Five Blue Devils had at least four rebounds. Laettner and Grant Hill both had six. 
"They assaulted the boards," said MacLeod. "They have the ability to crash four guys to the boards and still recover. Duke looks to me to be the best in the country." 
Bobby Hurley (15), Thomas Hill (14), and Brian Davis (13) supported Laettner in Duke's scoring. 
Meyo 
continued from page 17 
meet. Senior Peppard finished ninth in the event. 
Running the mile for the women were freshman Eva Flood and junior Lisa Gorski. Flood placed fifth in the event and Gorski placed eighth. In the regular men's mile, freshman Nate Ruder ran brilliantly and qualified for the ICAAAA meet in addition to finishing fourth in the mile final. 
In the women's 3000-meter finals, freshmen Becky Alfieri and Kristi Kramer placed ninth and tenth respectively. For the 
men in the triple jump, fresh­
man Lee Becton placed sixth and also qualified for the ICAAAA event with a jump of 46-9 1/2. 
The meet marked the track debuts of several Irish football players who also run track. Mike Miller, Tom Carter, and Lee Becton tested the waters of indoor track in several events at the meet. Their perfor­mances were very promising. 
"I am very anxious to see Mike Miller, Tom Carter, Lee Becton, and Dean Lytle compete again," said Piane. 
On Friday, the Irish will host . the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Indoor Track Championships that was sup­posed to be on January 24th. 

pporlunities in Education, and Why I Decided to Leave the House.'' 
AT THE RONKIN EDUCATIONAL GROUP OUR CLASS SIZES ARE LIMITED TO NO MORE THAN 10 STUDENTS PER CLASS. SIGN UP NOW FOR PREPARATION COURSE FOR SUMMER ISAT
Monday, February 3, 1992 
This example of personalized attentton IS JUSt one of the reasons our classes are filling up fast.
7:30pm 

Call now to reserve a seat. 
• 40 Hours Of Live Instruction 
LibraryAuditorium 
• 
Live Thtorial Available At No Extra Charge 

• 
National 800 Telephone Helpline 

• 
6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams 

• 
Constantly Updated Materials 


WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
-
.-.._ 
--~--------------~----­

page 16 The Observer Monday, February 3, 1992 
Women's tennis loses opener 
By RICH SZABO Sports Writer 
It was not the way the season was supposed to begin. 
Expectations are high this year for the Notre Dame women's tennis team, as they currently occupy the 25th position in the national poll, but statistics and rankings were not enough to overcome a pumped-up Illinois team. 
Playing the dedication match in a new facility, and backed by an enthusiastic crowd, the Illini broke in their new building with a 5-4 triumph over the Irish in a contest that could have gone either way. 
"It was a tough match," said Irish coach Jay Louderback, "and I knew they were good going in. This was our first match of the year, and some of us played a little scared." 
Things started out promising for the Irish, as, in a battle of NCAA tournament players, seventh­ranked Melissa Harris defeated Lindsey Nimmo 6-4, 6-4 at first singles. 
At second singles, freshman Laura Schwab dropped a 6-1, 7-5 contest to Chrsity Meola, while Terri Vitale fell to Linda Gates 6-3, 6-3 at the fourth slot. 
Christy Faustmann pulled out a 6-4, 6-4 win for the Irish at second singles over Mary Williams, and at fifth singles, Lisa Tholen bounced back from a set down to defeat Camille Baldridge 6-7, 6-1, 6-1. 
The Illini tied up the match after singles, with Kristen Jones beating Katie Clark 6-1, 6-1. It was Clark's first match in a year after recovering from a back injury. 
"Katie's been playing real well in practice," said Louderback, "but she hadn't played a match in about a year. We'll be using her, Ann Bradshaw, and Eniko Bende a lot in singles this season, and she'll be a big plus for us." 
With the score tied at 3-3, the match hinged on the doubles contests. At second doubles, Bradshaw and Bende put on a doubles clinic, pounding Baldridge and Meola 6-2, 6-0 to give the Irish a 4-3 lead. 
Needing only one win out of two matches, the remaining Irish doubles teams lost extremely close matches, both in the third set. 
At first doubles, Faustmann and Tholen jumped out to a 6-1 lead, but could not close out the match, dropping a tight 1-6, 6-4, 7-5 decision to Nimmo and Jones. 
In the deciding doubles match, Vitale and Kristy Doran fell behind to Gates and Lisa Kimmel 4-6 after the first set, but rebounded to take the sec­ond set 6-1. Up 4-3 in the final set, the Irish tandem could not convert, as the Illini pair whipped off three straight games to take the set and win the match. 
The Irish (0-1) will be in action this weekend, with three matches in two days. Notre Dame hosts Kansas State on Saturday, and then Drake and Miami (Ohio) on Sunday. Also, Melissa Harris 
-

play at the Pnnce Classic thiS weekend. will be representing Notre Dame at the Rolex National Indoor tournament in Minneapolis, based on her victory last fall in the Rolex Regionals. It was a tough loss, to be sure, but one that will undoubtedly be a learning experience for the Irish as they continue their season. "Illinois was sky-high this weekend," said Louderback. "They were playing their first match in a brand-new facility, in front of a good crowd. I was pleased that our kids were able to keep their composure, but I think we were just a little ner­vous." Added Clark, "We were really nervous, and I think we got off to a poor start. It's better that it happens now than alater. It makes you realize that you have to take the matches one at a time, and we'll remember this. We'll bounce back." 
Men win Prince 
Classic royally 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame mens' tennis team captured the Prince Collegiate Tennis Classic this weekend in dominating fashion, with victories over Colorado, Michigan St. and national powerhouse Texas. 
The Irish showed why their are ranked tenth in the nation, opening the tournament by embarrassing Colorado 6-1. Dave DiLucia, ranked second in the country, started the Irish onslaught by beating Mark LeClair 6-3, 7-5. Five other Irish victories followed, the most impressive coming from Andy Zurcher who beat the Buffalo's Jesper Witt. Witt was ranked 24th in the nation entering the matchup, nineteen spots ahead of Zurcher. 
In Saturday's match with Michigan St. coach Bob Bayliss decided to rest DiLucia and Zurcher for Sunday's matchup against Texas, choosing to give Chris Wojtalik and Tommy North an opportunity to perform against the Spartans. 
"We are a very deep team," said Bayliss. "We have players like North and Wojtalik who would be playing every match for other teams. It gives me the option to rest players when necessary." 
North and Wojtalik didn't disappoint. They tallied victories, as did the rest of the Irish in the 8-0 victory. In the singles competition, no Irish player lost more than four games in a set, and Chuck Coleman lost only one game one way to an easy 6-1, 6-0 win. 
Although the wins over Colorado and Michigan St. were signifigant ones a win over perennial ranked Texas would be a monumental achievement for an Irish team new to the rankings. 
The Irish put to rest any doubts that they can play with the nation's best, dominating the Longhorns 8-1. The usual names filled the Notre Dame win column. DiLucia, Forsyth and Zurcher swept to easy, two set victories and 

The Observer/R.Garr Schwartz Coleman continued his sterling play beating Chuck Colem_an, shown_ her~ in a match last fall, is turning heads with his Ernesto Ponce 6-0, 6-0. The only setback that 
the Irish suffered was in the third singles where North and Wojtalik were bested by Clyde Thompson and Mark Taylor 7-5, 6-3. Bayliss remarked on the significance of the win, but admitted being surprised by the wide margin of victory. 
"It is really good for Notre Dame tennis to bring a team like Texas here and beat them as soundly as we did," said Bayliss. "I was very surprised by the decisiveness of the score. Texas will be heard from again, I expect them to be a top-twenty team by the end of the season." 
Bayliss also saw the weekend as a success, due to the emergence of Chuck Coleman as a top player for the Irish. In his last four matches Coleman has lost only six games dating back to Notre Dame's opening meeting with Minnesota. 
"The guy who has been unbelievable is Coleman," said Bayliss. "We have a very pleasant problem. He is sending a message to me that he is ready to move up in singles play." 


Careers in Commodity Merchandising 
Stop by our Information Session! Peggy MacNaughton, a Cargill commodity n1erchant, will be on campus for a Commodity Merchandising Information Session. 
It will be held on: Tuesday,Februaryll, 1992 from 5:00-6:00 p.m. Foster Room LaFortune Student Center, 3rd floor. 
See you there! 

Contact your placement office for further information. Cargill is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer M/F!HIV. Students with disabilities are encouraged to apply. 
-· 
Gel so•, olllhe regular llckel pnce by presen110g one ollhelollow~ng when purchasong hckels • Bolh end llap~ lrom one 54 counl or larger boa ol Bounce h~nc Sollener or • The Nel Weoghl Slalemenl oil ol any 18 use or larger Powder Cheer Delergenl. or • A cash reglsler receopl wllh Cheer Loquod Delergenl purchase proce corcled wolh UPC llrom lhe bollle wrollen on back ol receopl No lomol on lhe number ol hckels alSO"• oil. provoded one proal ol purchase II presented lor each hckel purchased. and seal~ng os avaolable Oiler vahd lor all hckels excepl VIP & lop· proce seals Look lor lhe Bounce & Cheer dosplays al pa~ocopahng slores THURSDAY, MARCH 5, 1992 7:30PM NOTRE DAME JOYCE A.C.C. All seats reserved: $9.50, $12.50, $13.50 VIP seats available (no discounts) Save $2.00 on Kids 12 and under/ Seniors 62 and over!  
3 WAYS TO GET TICKETS  
(Service charge may apply) BY PHONE: Call (219) 272-7979 Use Visa or MasterCard IN PERSON: J.A.C.C. Box Office and all Ticketmaster Outlets. BY MAIL: Send self-addressed stamped envelope and check or money order to: Globetrotters, J.A.C.C .. , Notre Dame, IN 46556 (Include $2.00 per order for handling) Group Discount Sales call J.A.C.C. Box Office or (813) 755-0670  

Monday, February 3, 1992 The Observer page 17 
Irish fencers finish weekend with perfect record 
'· 

By JONATHAN JENSEN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's fenc­ing team continued their win­ning ways this weekend in Angola, In., trouncing Tri-State 23-4, Cleveland State 21-6, and Case Western Reserve 26-1, be­fore squeaking past Ohio State 16-11. 
The foil squad, led by seniors Ed Lefevre{8-0) and Mike Trisko(7-0). posted four easy victories on route to compiling a stellar 30-6 record on the day. The two leaders also combined for four big victories against a tough Ohio State team. 
"I was impressed with Ed and Mike," said Irish coach Mike DeChicco. "We need strong performances from them, and we certainly got them today." 
Also contributing to the foil victory were junior captain Jeff Piper(5-3), sophomore Rian Girard{4-1), and seniors Tom Clare{3-1) and David Letscher(3-1). 
The epee team had a slightly tougher time in Angola, as they lost a 5-4 match at the hands of the Buckeyes of Ohio State. Despite the loss, junior Per Johnsson, who posted a 6-1 record on the day, impressed by winning a key bout, 5-4. 
The Irish's unblemished record was at stake, as they were down 7-5 in the overall 

standings against OSU. But Johnsson picked up the close victory to deadlock the slate at 7-7. From there the Irish never looked back, winning the next five bouts to preserve the 16-11 win. 
"It was a big win for Per," noted DeChiLCO. "Our epee team didn't fence quite as well as we had hoped they would, but in the team context, Per's bout was vital for us." 
The epee squad was also paced by All-American David Calderhead{8-2), fellow seniors Craig Conner{3-2) and Ben Finley{2-0). junior Geoff Pechinsky{2-0), and sophomore Grzegorz Wozniak{5-5). 
The sabre squad avenged an earlier loss to Ohio State by posting a 6-3 victory, as they blew past the competition on their way to another 30-6 slate. 
Senior captain Chris Baguer went 8-1 on the day to push his season record to 18-1 and, in 
· his first competition of the year, senior Ed Baguer had .seven wins to go along with no losses. "We knew that Ed would have made a big difference in the first match," said DeChicco. "He proved us right." The senior combo of Henry Chou{5-0) and David Kirby{2-1), along with impressive freshman Chris McQuade, added to the team's arsenal. Junior James Taliaferro(6-3) ran his overall record to an outstanding 17-6. 
This weekend Notre Dame traveled without the women foilists, as they competed in New Jersey. The Irish will travel-with the women's team to Champaign, II., next weekend for a meet with arch-rival Wayne State, Detroit Mercy, Michigan State, Purdue, and Lawrence. 
The Irish's victories this weekend ran their season record to 10-0, and extended the Irish winning streak to 33 matches over the last two sea­sons. The last time the Irish lost a match was two years ago, in the last match of the season against Princeton. That was the Irish's only blemish in a 24­1 season. 

Women's hoops win second straight with new faces 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
Using a new starting lineup, the Notre Dame women's bas­ketball team knocked off visit­ing Loyola Saturday afternoon 78-66 for their second consecu­tive win. 
Former starters Comalita Haysbert and Michelle Marciniak spent the beginning of the game on the bench, while walk-on Kara Leary made her second straight start. 
It has been an roller coaster ride for the Irish this season, but they seem to be finding the right chemistry as they enter the final month of the regular season. 
"We're experimenting with some different combinations," said junior Coquese Washington. "It has taken us a long time to learn to play to­gether, but it's better to be playing well at the end going into the tournament." 
The Irish have definitely been playing well lately. Saturday's win improves their record to 6­11 overall and 3-2 in the con­ference and it also marks the first time all season that they have put together two consecu­tive victories. 
It looked like it would be an­other long day for the Irish in the early going. Loyola jumped out to a 9-3 lead, but the Irish went on a 19-4 run to take an eight point lead midway through the first half and they never looked back. 

Haysbert and Marciniak came off the bench to lead Notre Dame with 14 and 13 points, respectively. Marciniak showed some of the moves that made her the nation's prize recruit last season, including a wrap­around pass for the highlight films that was nullified by a charging foul. Another offen­sive threat for the Irish was Kara Leary, who opened some eyes with ten points and ten as­sists. 
"Kara Leary played a phe­nomenal game," said Washington, who collected ten points of her own. "She defi­nitely made a big contribution." 
Everyone contributed in the decisive second half. Five Irish players finished the game in double figures, but more im­portantly, they were able to vir­tually shut down a potent Loyola offense. 
Mariann Murtaugh, the MCC assist leader, collected nine as­sists, but the Irish defense forced her into seven turnovers. Loyola's main inside threat Sherry Metz was well below her average with only 15 points. 
Mter trading baskets with the Ramblers for the first ten minutes of the second half, the Irish went on another scoring surge, increasing their lead to 20 points. The lead was never less than 10 points the rest of the way, but the team was upset with their overall consistency. 
"We did a lot of good things, but we also had some lapses," Washington noted. "We tend to play in spurts and now we're trying to get to the point where we're playing consistently throughout." 
They don't have much time to improve that consistency, how­ever, with a trip to Cincinnati to face conference leading Xavier on the slate for Thursday night. 

Notre Dame track teams off to quick start 
By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track teams opened up the indoor season on Saturday at the Meyo Invitational at Loftus Center. Members of both the men's and the women's teams performed well in the first meet. 
Notre Dame track head coach Joe Piane was pleased with the results. 
"There were a lot of very good performances," said Piane, "And to get them the first race out is terrific." 
"We really did not know what to expect out there," said men's 

lJrcoming Events 
TUESDAY. FEBRUARY 4 
GEOFFREY WALKER 
Dean, T. C. Beirne School of Law, The UnlversHy of Queensland, Australia 
"THE RULE OF LAW AND THE NEW WORLD ORDER: SOME GUIDELINES FOR THE DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTION OF THE NINETIES" 
Cosponsored with the Notre Dame Law School 
4:00p.m. 
Conference Room 103 
The Hesburgh Center for 
International Studies 
Everyone Welcome 
INSTITUTE FOR


••• INTERNATIONAL 
JJJ(f(~N:~~o7J~?L:: 
track co-captain Brian Peppard. "It was a type of test to see how things are going." 
The first of the Irish's two first place finishes came in the women's competition with ju­nior Karen Harris winning the shot put event with a mighty throw of 45-1 3/4 yards that was a new Meyo Invitational record. 
The second top finish also came on the women's side in the 4 x 880 relay. Sophomore Laura Guyer led off, freshmen Sarah Riley and Kala Boulware followed her, and senior Diane Bradley anchored the team. Their time of 9:21.52 was an­other new Meyo Invitational record. In the men's 4 x 880 relay, junior J.T. Burke, fresh­men Joe Royer and Chet Taff, and senior Neal Mulrooney fin­ished third behind teams from Mississippi and Cincinnati. 
The highest finisher for the men was sophomore Todd Herman who placed second in the high jump. Freshman Brian Headrick shared fourth place in the event with three other 
~~ 
r.:-\.... .r. ~~---~ 1
"?Turtle ....._CreeK 
~­
Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 
2/1 0 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses 
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 

jumpers. For the women, freshman Lisa Junek placed third in the high jump. 
Notre Dame performed well in the short distance events, especially, the 55-meter hurdles and the 55-meter dash. Junek finished third in the fmals of the 55m hurdles with a time of 8.20 while Monica Cox placed fourth in the consolation fmal. For the men, sophomores Chris Lilly and Daniel Amitie finished fourth and sixth in the high hurdles consolation final re­spectively. In the men's conso­lation final of the 55m sprint, sophomore Dean Lytle placed third, but in the finals freshman Mike Miller finished third and sophomore Tom Carter finished fifth. 
In an unique event, the Meyo Mile, unattached runner Lenny Sitko ran a four minute mile. Notre Dame junior John Coyle crossed the line just seconds behind Sitko with a 4:05.56 mile. His time qualified him for participation in the ICAAAA 
see MEYO/ page 15 

FREE COLOR OR PERM 
Men and women needed for Redken Professional Hair Seminar. This is a great chance to get a new look from Roy Peters Top Color and Penn Expert. 
Tues., February 18, 1992 For more info, call Vicki or Kim at Maly's 256-2033 
page 18 The Observer Monday, February 3, 1992 
OSU dominates ND wrestlers 
By JIM VOGL 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team (2-3) endured a tough 32­9 loss to tenth-ranked Ohio State (10-3) on Saturday. 
While virtually dominated throughout, the Irish did show some bright spots. The crowd went home on an uplifting note following the lowest scoring battle of the night. Heavyweight senior Chuck Weaver (14-6) held off seventh­ranked Ray Mendoza (26-6), by a 4-2 decision. 
"It was a case where Weaver started intimidating him a bit," said Notre Dame coach Fran McCann. "Every time the guy got to his feet, Chuck picked him up and put him to the mat, and that took a lot out of him. Chuck's really starting to come into his own." 
At 126, Irish star Marcus Gowens (17 -4), as predicted, dominated OSU's Mike Doll (1­
14) with four takedowns in the first period. Then Gowens quickly pinned Doll at 2:12 in the second, good for six team points. It was Gowens' fifth pin on the season, tying him for the team lead with the 167-pound Todd Tomazic. 
"Gowens is one of our few seniors," said McCann. "He's wrestled at this level many times, unlike a lot of our younger guys. He just went out there and got the job done." 
In the most anticipated match of the evening, J.J. McGrew (5­
4) faced off against OSU's Kevin Randleman at 177. Just a sophomore, Randleman boasted a third-place national ranking, an undefeated record (25-0-1), and a Charles Atlas physique. "Randleman is a physical specimen," admired McCann. 
But McGrew, still recovering from an injury, refused to let his opponent intimidate him. First, he brought the crowd to a frenzy by driving Randleman 20 feet across the mat, only to see the Buckeye cleverly escape the takedown. 
Then before the second pe­riod, Randleman lost his cool. Considering McGrew's constant headslaps disrespectful to a wrestler of his stature, Randleman let the crowd know his displeasure, saying "If he hits me again, I'm gonna bust him!" After winning the match 7-4, Randleman refused to shake McGrew's hand and had to be subdued by his coach on the sideline. 

"They are two high strung athletes. I thought the official did a good job of keeping con­trol," commented McCann, who has high expectations of McGrew. "J.J. just made a cou­ple of mistakes. He let his emo­tions take over and lost his concentration a bit. If they wrestle again, it's going to come down to the wire." 
The Irish started off the match in a hole, forfeiting at 
118. Starter Chris Jenson, lost for the match due to grades, is expected back next week. Backup Ed Jamieson suffered a knee injury, and Javier Rivera was unable to make the weight. 
McCann sounded optimistic about the remainder of the sea­son. "This is by far the tough­est team we face this year. From here on in, the schedule is pretty much in our favor. Now we're getting back to earth," he said. 
Notre Dame was back in ac­tion on Sunday at Illinois University. 
Belles sink against Lake Forest College swimmers 
By JULIE SCULLY 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swim team lost Saturday to Lake Forest College, 159 -89. The Belles swam well against this tough Division III opponent, despite the fact that they knew they couldn't win many of the events. In order to compensate, they attempted to win on a smaller scale, by concentrating on their starts and turns. 
Coach Dennis Cooper said the Belles swam very well in the second half, after a much­needed team pep talk during the break at the middle of the meet. 
"I emphasized the importance of the swimmers starts and turns," Cooper said. "The swimmers were having a hard time staying focused in the first half of the meet, but after we had a discussion, they swam very well in the second half." 
Another dilemma the Belles faced, was the pool itself. The Saint Mary's swimmers are not used to swimming in a short course 25 meter pool. 
"It was difficult to convert our times on the spot to know how fast we actually swam, compared to our previous times, " said Senior tri-captain Kathleen Golski. 
Michelle Colburn, senior tri­captain was a triple time win­ner for the Belles. Colburn took the 400 individual medley and the 200 backstroke. She said, "I hadn't swam the 400 individual medley since high school so the win was a bit un­expected." 
Colburn, along with Golski, Megan Hurley, and Jennifer Gustafson finished first in the 200 freestyle relay. Golski also snared a first place finish in the 400 freestyle. In the 800 freestyle, which she hadn't swam for two years, Golski placed second and dropped 18 seconds from her last time . 
Freshman Katie Northup fin­ished second in 200 butterfly and third in the 400 individual medley. "I think many of the swimmers were tired going into the meet, but once we got into it we swam really well," said Northup. 

Megan Hurley finished third in the 400 freestyle. Coach Cooper said, "I was very pleased because Megan swam her lifetime best in the event." 
Colburn added, "We have been working intensely throughout the season. Nonetheless, we realize we need to be more focused because the little things, like starts and turns are important in every race." 
The Belles will practice rigor­ously all week in preparation for their next meet which is scheduled for Friday Feb. 7 against University of Indianapolis, a Division II com­petitor. The meet at Rockne Memorial Pool will begin at 7:00p.m. 
NO squads sweep AFROTC hoops tournament 

The Observer/John Bingham Senior heavyweight Chuck Weaver held off seventh-ranked Roy Mendosa in the meet against Ohio State. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•Hapkido/Tae Kwon Do practice every Monday and Wednesday, 
6:30 p.m.-7:45 p.m. Room 301 Rockne Memorial. Beginners welcome. Any questions, call Sean at 283-3457. 
•A 
Cross Country Ski Clinic for beginners is being offered on the golf course by RecSports, today at 4 p.m. Register in advance at RecSports. 

•Notre 
Dame Rugby: There will be a meeting on Tuesday, February 4, at 8 p.m. in the Loftus Center for anyone interested in ~oining. No experience or pads necessary. For all past members, practices are being held every Tuesday and Thursday at 9 p.m. at Loftus. We will be using SACS, so remember to bring them. 

•The 
Bookstore Basketball Tournament is looking for a new head and some assistant commissioners. Anyone interested should pick up an application at the student government secretary's desk on the second floor of LaFortune. Applications are due by Friday, February 7 and interviews will be held on February 10 and 11. Any questions, contact Kevin McGee at 234-5193. 

•The 
RecSports Downhill Ski Trip, originally scheduled for January 24 is rescheduled for Friday, February 7. Buses will leave the Library Circle at 5 p.m., and return at approximately 11 p.m. 25 dollars includes lift ticket, equipment and transportation. Register at RecSports by 5 p.m. Wednesday. 

•SMC/ND 
women's lacrosse club first practice will be Wednesday, February 5, from 8-10 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. For the rest of the month pracitces will be Sunday, from 2-4 and Monday and Wednesdays from 8-10 p.m. at Angela. 


SPRING BREAK Surf·s Up 
Get on an NO-SMC Party Plane from South Bend to Cancun, Mexico from $475 -$635 
Get on a Party Bus from South Bend to Daytona Beech, Flori de from $250 to $270 
Party on the "Love Boat" from Ft. Leuderde l e to the Bahamas from $279 -$329 
Party in Pedre in your own Condo on the Beach for $ 199 
Perty in Penema City, Flori de from $99 -$ 1 99 
Contact Campus Reps: 
Lance Dawson 
271-1681 Jeff Burgis 289-6642 Scott Hazen 289-6642 Mike Kamradt 289-6642 (SMC) Mary Kamradt 284-4380 
ATTENTION: Looking for motivated ND-SMC students who would like to be cempus reps end get e free trip to Cencun or cruise to the BAhAmA<: CDntflct Lflnce At 27 1-1 f>R 1 

By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
Twenty-seven mens' and four womens' teams from all over the country competed in the sixth annual AFROTC basket­ball tournament this weekend at the JACC. 
The vast number of teams couldn't find a way to beat the Irish, as the Notre Dame mens' Navy team captured the mens' title and the Irish womens' Tri­Military team won the womens' crown. 
In the mens' final, Notre Dame's Navy and Air Force teams met after breezing through a field which included teams from Tennessee, South Dakota, Wisconsin and Minnesota. 
The teams exchanged the lead until the games final moments, 
MAPLE LANE BARBER SHOP 
' 
HOURS: MON·FRI 8:00·5:30 SAT 8:00·3:0• 
2112 South Bend,Avenu' Appointments If desired 272-6722 
with the winning basket coming from Navy cadet Earl Johnson with one second left. Johnson's basket followed a score from Air Force guard Jim Kossler who had given his squad a 38­37 lead with eight seconds left. 
The womens' finale was all Irish. The Notre Dame Tri­Military team dominated Minnesota 38-21. The Irish women led from the start, and had the game in hand by the middle of the fourth quarter. 
Tournament director Dave Bagnoli saw the tournament as a great success, and hopes that the success of this tournament and similar events will lead to greater things. 

"The quality of play was pretty high and tournament was a great success," said Bagnoli. "Our ultimate goal is to get a ARROTC national tournament." 
Womens' tournament director Marci Powell had similar comments about the tourna­ments effectiveness. 
"The whole tournament went really well," said Powell. "We didn't have as many teams as we would have liked, but the competition was very good." 
The Observer 
has positions available for 
DAY EDITOR 
Contact Dannika at 239-7471 or 283-4233 Must be available 
Monday or Wednesday Afternoons 

-------------r--·-•
~ 

Monday, February 3, 1992 The Observer 
page 19 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
~~E.t-1 f.-~\0 ~'«.S 0!', liE 1\t..S lb BE ~~\1-l.G. II£ c~~'i J\l'St SIP--~ ll-\~ W~'{ 
1-\E. \S 
BILL WATIERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
B\.11 A T\GE.R 

GRP\'1'5 UP 
P.ND S\1'-~S f>. T\GtR. 
WIN \') 1W.T;. 
0 
0 
~11-~7 






45----ring 15 Tristan's beloved 
ACROSS 
47 Sympathy's partner 17 Neighbor of Uruguay1 Rows of cut grain 48 New Testament book (abbr.) 7 Actress Mason 50 Range type 22 Heretofore (2 wds.) 
13 Shaving creams 51 Shouts of discovery 23 Width of a narrow 15 Vocalizes 52 Classic TV comedy road (2 wds.) 16 Big Eight team series (2 wds.) 24 Well-known airline 
(2 wds.) 57 Poe girl, et al. 25 Being evasive 18 Estrange from a 58 Name for a terrier 28 Prepare for 
habit 59 Born first 30 Pat or Debbie 19 Spanish gold 60 Movie part (2 wds.) 35 Carrying case 20 Part of Fred Flint-36 Make believe 
stone phrase 37 Building shelves 21 Mi 1itary branch DOWN 38 Earthquakes 
(abbr.) 1 Decelerate 39 Art lover 22 Fastened with a pin 2 Sees the light 40 Candle fat 26 Map part (2 wds.) 41 One of former 27 Part of a golf game 3 National league musical group 29 Smearers team 43 Talked disrespect­31 Conference with the 4 Comparison word fully 
enemy 5 Amused expression 46 Scarlett's closing 32 Accompany 6 Sell'out sign word 33 Everything 7 Telephone-dial 49 Brake part 34 Bout decision trio 51 Feed the kitty 35 ----cord 8 From ----Z 53 Eithers' partners 38 Fishing nets 9 Round: Fr. 54 Part of NNP 41 Without exception 10 Gym shoe 55 Calendar abbrevi­
(2 wds.) 11 President Hoover ation 42 Hemingway, et al. 12 Analyzes 56 Expression of 44 Summer in Sedan 14 Like Los Angeles wonderment 
JAY HOSLER 

7 p.m. Film, "Rome, Open City." Annenberg Auditorium. 
7 p.m. Basketball, Saint Mary's College vs. Bethel College. Angela Athletic Facility. 
9:15p.m. Avant-garde films. Annenberg Auditorium. 
LECTURES 
.. 

Monday 
3:30 p.m. Seminar, "Arithmetech as Applied to Environmental Solutions," Arthur Busch. Room 364, Fitzpatrick Hall. Sponsored by Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control and the Departments of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences. 
4:30 p.m. Mathematical Colloquium, "The Kirchhoff and C. Neumann Tops," Roberto Camassa, Los Alamos National Lab. Room 226, Mathematics Building. Sponsored by the Department of Mathematics. 
7:30 p.m. Lecture, "Challenges, Changes and Opportunities in Education and Why I Decided to Leave the House," William Gray, III, president, United Negro College Fund. Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Student Government. 
Tuesday 
12:10 p.m. Noontalk, "The Lords of Life: The Iconography of Power and Fertility in Preclassic Mesoamerica," Douglas Bradley. East Gallery, O'Shaughnessy, The Snite Museum of Art. Sponsored by The Snite Museum of Art. 
12:30 p.m. Seminar, "Seminaries and Social Conflict in the Church: The Return to Discipline (The Crisis of Recife, Brazil, 1989)", Kenneth Serbin, faculty fellow. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kroc Institute. 
.. 

MENU 
Notre Dame 
Roast Pork Loin with Apples 
Hot Dogs 
Rotini with Marinara Sauce 
Saint Mary's 
French Dip Sandwiches 
Pork Cutlets 
Au Gratin Potatoes 
Vegetarian Eggplant Parmesan 
Sports 
page 20 
Laettner and Co. bury NO 100-71 
By DAVE MCMAHON get him the ball." Associate Sports Editor The Irish stayed with Duke in the early going. 
DUHHAM-Notre Dame's Down 9-2, Notre Dame came men's basketball team faced a to within three points of the loadnd arsenal in the form of Blue Devils, 19-16, with just the Dukn Blue Devils Saturday over 13:00 left in the first half. afternoon. The Irish found success mainly 
All-American Christian on the transition, with most Laettner fired the first shot and points coming from shots in the misfired on few occasions lane. thereafter to lead the top­Then Duke denied the open ranked Blue Devils in a 100-71 lane shots, which spelled trou­
blowout of the Irish. ble for the Irish. The Blue 
Duke's unselfish offense, Devils also began to control the combined with chest-to-chest lane on the offensive end, defense. sent the Irish home continuously putting up second with their fourth loss in four and third shots. tries at Cameron Indoor "They physically manhandled Stadium. us in the first half," said Notre 
"I really like the way our kids coach John MacLeod. "I was 
madn the extra pass and played really impressed. They move hard defensively" said Duke the ball well, give it up easily coach Mike Krzyzewski, who and are really tuned into the has coached the Blue Devils to team concept." four consecutive Final Four Notre Dame (7-9) had several appearances, highlighted by chances thwarted on some last year's NCAA title. "We have inopportune fouls, including an more depth than Notre Dame intentional foul by Jon Ross. and we're a more experienced Antonio Lang hit both shots and team. There's nothing negative then a field goal to put Duke to say about our effort today." ahead 34-18 with 8:30 left in 
Little went wrong for Duke the half. Lang's four-point play (16-0), which recorded its occurred during Duke's 32-12 SOOth win at Cameron and run that ended the half at 51­showed why it's been ranked as 28. the number one for 11 straight "I thought their guy [Lang] wenks. grabbed our guy first, but they 
With Irish senior center Keith said our guy [Ross] grabbed 
.. Tower out for 2-6 weeks with a their guy first," said MacLeod. broken elbow. Duke exploited Duke picked up in the second thn innxperience of starter Jon half where it had left off. The Hoss. Laettner finished with 29 Irish held Duke to a 49-43 points on 11-of-14 shooting advantage, but poth teams from the field. played much of the second half "With them losing Tower and with reserves. Freshman Malik not having much recovery time, Bussell provided the Irish with I know that hurt them," said seven second half points. 
The Observer/Jake Peters 

Krzyzewski, Duke's all-time "It became a learning situa­
Duke's Christian Laettner puts another one over the Irish as the Blue Devils coast to victory on Laettner's 29 
winningest coach. "Laettner 
points.
see GAME/ page 15

was terrific and we looked to 
Duke's 6th man MVP material 
erywhere.
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
With arcane references to
Sports Writer 
opposing coaches' past girl­friends and referees' past
DURHAM-There is no place boyfriends, at a decibel level ri­like home, and no one knows it valing any jet engine's, Duke's
better than the Duke Blue 
students consistently surpriseDevils. 
those who pay attention to theirCameron Indoor Stadium has 
screaming, whining and
long been a death trap for any moaning.
college basketball team that 
Against Notre Dame, the stu­
dares to enter its doors, as dent-fans were characteristi­Notre Dame discovered 
cally maniacal. After excitingSaturday afternoon. The Irish 
plays by the Irish, the Dukejoined the list of Cameron's 
students reminded them of the 
victims, becoming Duke's 
score, chanting, "It just doesn'tSOOth Cameron victim after a matter,"and followed a missed
game-long abuse session ad­alley-oop with the ridiculous
ministered by the Blue Devils. 
assertion that "LaPhonso (Ellis)Over 9,000 Blue Devils. 
can't dunk."
Duke's fans, especially its Compact and close to the
student-fans, painted blue and 
floor, the student section waswearing basketballs as hats, boisterous and organized, and
have become legendary among most screamers brought sensescollege basketball followers ev­
see DUKlES I page 15 

... Ferris State completes hockey sweep with late rally 

By DAVE DIETEMAN Cusey all notched first-period period. After two minutes of three-on­unit fired a barrage of shots at 
Sports Editor goals, giving Notre Dame a 3-1 "We needed to be under con­three skating, the Irish went on Louder, with defenseman John lead going into the second pe­trol," said Irish coach Ric the attack at full strength. Yet Gruden finding the net at the riod. Schafer. "In the first period, we Bulldog goalkeeper Pat Mazzoli 17:57 mark. 
Buoyed by two periods of Janicke recorded an assist on played really well and executed deftly deflected Notre Dame's Notre Dame escaped the sec­shutout defense, Ferris State (7-Cusey's goal, giving the junior well. But we shot ourselves in shots, and Ferris State found ond period without further 12-6) came from behind to beat center 100 points in his career. the foot in the second period. itself with a three-on-two break damage, but found itself on the the Notre Dame hockey team 5-He is just the 34th player in This is one of the teams that we away. ropes again in the final period. 3 Saturday night. Notre Dame history to accom­wanted to do well against, and Irish goalie Greg Louder dove After killing two Irish powerThe same pounding Bulldog plish the feat. a team we could have beaten. for a loose puck in from of the plays, Bulldog wing Aaron Aspdefense sent the Irish (8-12-1) That second period, however, "Fatigue took its toll on us, net, but was unable to control shot Notre Dame from the fry­packing Friday night with a 4-0 proved disastrous for the Irish, and their physical play took us it. Two Bulldog players and ing pan and into the fire with a 
decision in Big Rapids, who were whistled for eight out of our game. Ferris State three Notre Dame defenders game-tying shorthanded goalMich.-the first shutout of a penalties in 20 minutes. Ferris came to play a lot better in that piled onto Louder, with Janicke 10 minutes into the period. Notre Dame team in 49 games. State, when it was not serving second period. But eight penal­whistled for delay of game as Just two minutes later, Ferris 
But Saturday. night, the Irish its six penalties, capitalized on ties in 20 minutes wasn't very the knot of skaters was being State took the lead for good on struck early and often. Mike Notre Dame let-downs to draw clever on our part. We were on untangled. 
see PUCK I page 15 

Curry, Curtis Janicke and Troy to within 3-2 after the second the ropes." The Ferris State power play 


