---------------~---­

~-~ 
-8&·
IHl•IPPl 
Sl SQUICENTfNNIAL 

e Observer ~mMa~Cd~ 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 
VOL. XXIV NO. 142 

FRIDAY, MAY 15, 1992 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


ND graduates 2,300 students 
By PAUL PEARSON Associate News Editor 
More than 2,300 Notre Dame students will receive degrees at the University's Sesquicenten­nial Year Commencement ceremonies at 2 p.m. Sunday in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center (JACC). 
President George Bush will address the graduates at the University's 147th Commence­ment. Bush and eight others, including Chilean President Patricio Aylwin, will receive honorary degrees from the University. 
Due to the increased amount of media expected for Bush's address. the doors of the JACC will open at noon Sunday, one half-hour earlier than usual, and all those attending the ceremony will be required to go through a metal detector, according to Dennis Moore, director of Public Relations and Information. 
University officials urge those attending the ceremony to arrive early, since the increased security means that entering the JACC. "will take a little longer than usual," Moore said. Graduates and faculty should enter the JACC through Gate 3, while family and guests should enter through Gate 10. 
Degrees will be conferred to 1,816 undergraduates, 145 master's degree and doctoral The Observer/Marguerite Schropp students in the Graduate School, 217 master's Casting off degree students in the College of Business 
Before they launch their post-college lives, NO seniors Kristin Costello, John O'Brien, John Kroepfl and Christine Penote (left see ND/ page 4 to right) launch a canoe into the St. Joseph River Monday during the Senior Class Canoe Trip. 
Class of 1992 bids farewell at SMC commencement 
By AMY BENNETT Theresa Lynch will present her Lacy worked as a staff attorney 150th anniversary. p.m. in the LeMans Chapel. Assistant Saint Mary's Editor valedictory speech. with the Texas Legislative The College will present its The baccalaureate mass will Saint Mary's will present Lacy Council from 1969 to 1972. President's Medal for commu­also be celebrated today at 4 
Saint Mary's College will with an honorary doctorate de­Lacy's 12-year term with the nity service and contributions to p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. honor 44 7 graduates at noon gree of humanities. Lacy was Supreme Court began February the life of the College to Bishop John D'Arcy of the Dio­tomorrow in the Court of Le­appointed to the Supreme Court 1, 1989. Maureen Welch of Mechan­cese of Fort Wayne-South Bend Mans Hall in its 145th annual of Virginia in 1989. She gradu­Saint Mary's will also award icsville, Pa. will preside at the ma·ss, and commencement. ated cum laude from Saint an honorary degree to Other events on the com­Malloy will give the homily. 
Elizabeth Lacy, a justice on Mary's in 1966, receiving a University President Father mencement weekend schedule the Supreme Court of Virginia, bachelor's degree in history. Edward Malloy of Notre Dame, include the annual pinning cer­In the event of inclement will deliver the commencement in recognition of his personal emony for nursing graduates, weather, the commencement address. and 1992 Valedictorian After graduation from the accomplishments and in com­marking their entry into the ceremony will be held in Angela 
University of Texas Law School, memoration of the University's nursing profession today at 1 Athletic Facility. 
Commencement Weekend Schedule of Events 
Friday 1 p.m. Pinning ceremony for nursing graduates. LeMans Chapel. 2 p.m. College of Arts and Letters Honors Convocation. 
Washington Hall. 4 p.m. Baccalaureate Mass. Saint Mary's, Church of Our Lady of Loretto. 
6:30 p.m. Concert Band lawn concert. Main Building mall. 8 to 1 0 p.m. Graduate School award ceremony. Center tor Continuing Education (CCE). 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Graduation Dance. Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center (JACC). · 
10 p.m. to 1 a.m. Saint Mary's Graduation Cocktail Party. Century Center. 
Saturday 

8:30 to 11:30 a.m. Senior-Parent-Guest Brunch. Saint Mary's, 
Dining Hall. 9 a.m. ROTC commissioning. JACC, South Dome. 
10:30 a.m. Center for Social Concerns Volunteer Send-off. Washington Hall. 12 p.m. Commencement. Saint Mary's, LeMans Hall courtyard 
(rain location: Angela Athletic Facility). 1 p.m. Shenanigans concert. Stepan Center. 2 to 3:30p.m. Reception for Notre Dame graduates. CCE. 5 p.m. Baccalaureate Mass. JACC. 
6:45 to 8 p.m. Graduation Dinner. JACC and South Dining Hall. 9 p.m. Notre Dame Glee Club concert. Stepan Center. 
Sunday 
9:30 a.m. MBA diploma ceremony. Stepan Center. 10 a.m. Law School prayer service. Basilica of Sacred Heart. 12 p.m. Bachelor's and master's diploma distribution. JACC. 
1:15 p.m. Academic Procession. JACC. 2 p.m. Commencement. JACC. 
4:30 p.m. Law School diploma ceremony. Hesburgh Library Reflection Pool (rain location: Stepan Center). 
By DAVID KINNEY News Editor 
Several American bishops have expressed opposition to the University's choice of U.S. Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan (D-N.Y.) as recipient of the 1992 Laetare Medal because of the senator's pro-choice voting record on the issue of abortion. 
• 
Bishops react/page 5 

• 
Bishops' letter/ page 5 

• 
Alumni respond/ page 7 


Among the opponents of the decision are John Cardinal O'Connor of the Archdiocese of New York, Bishop John D'Arcy of the Diocese of Fort Wayne­South Bend and 14 bishops in Pennsylvania. 
Joseph Zwilling, a spokesman for O'Connor, confirmed that the cardinal had written Uni­versity President Father Ed­ward Malloy to express his dis­approval of the choice of Moynihan for the medal, which is the oldest and most presti­gious honor given to Catholics in the United States. 
He said O'Connor's letter was considered personal corre­spondence and would not dis­cuss its contents "as a matter of policy." 
The Catholic bishops of Penn­
Moynihan's award sparks opposition 

Daniel Patrick Moynihan 
sylvania released a letter sent to Malloy yesterday expressing their disapproval, and D'Arcy issued a public statement ex­pressing his opposition of the decision in the May 17 edition of Today's Catholic. 
"While we recognize Senator Moynihan's positive contribu­tions in certain public policy areas, we cannot overlook his consistently pro-abortion voting record," the Pennsylvania bishops' letter read. 
"We believe that his voting record is directly contradictory to the 'ideals of the church' and the consistent teachings of the Church on the sanctity of all human life," they said. 
D'Arcy said he would not at­tend the commencement exer­cises because Moynihan's "stated position on the question of human life in the womb is totally unacceptable to me." 
D'Arcy, who has attended Notre Dame's commencement exercises each year since his appointment as bishop, said his "presence could be interpreted as an approval of (Moynihan's) position relative to the issue of pre-born life." 
He is still scheduled to preside at tomorrow's Baccalaureate Mass. 
Although the New York Times News Service reported May 8 that Bernard Cardinal Law of Boston sent a letter of opposi­tion to Malloy, John Walsh, a spokesman for Law, said the cardinal has made no public statement about Moynihan's selection and that he considers all correspondence private. 
The Times reported that an individual who had seen a copy of the letter said it referred to "the strength and consistency" of the senator's record of de­fending a woman's right to an abortion and to a National Conference of Catholic Bishops resolution declaring that "no 
see REACTION I page 8 
--~---~----~-~-~---------------~-------------­
page 2 Friday, May 15, 1992
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 

haring ND with my father and friend 
It seems strange that Sunday I will go through a similar ceremony and receive the same diploma that my father did over 25 years ago.· Going through graduation weekend will 
be amlfher moment ~n my KELLEY TUTHILL 
Notre flame expenence Ed"t -Ch" f 
that I nave been fortunate 1 or-In-le 
enough to share with my________ 
father. 
Shortly after I arrived at Notre Dame, I received a letter from my dad and he told me how proud he was that I was here. He told me he missed me, but was happy that we would always share a love for this place. 
Back then, I guess I assumed my dad and I would share stories about freshmen orientation and .Junior Parents' Weekend. And we did. But over the years, we've learned that our every~ay experiences of just being students would brmg us together as friends. 
City H  L  
Alpharetta  83  65  
Artington Heights  75  54  
Bogota  68  45  
Boston  70  51  
Chicago  74  55  
Cincinnati  70  50  
Fort Wayne  72  53  
Gaithersburg  72  56  
Indianapolis  75  53  
Hopkins  70  55  
Los Angeles  75  60  
Michigan City  73  53  
Naperville  70  53  
Nashville  72  51  
New York  64  50  
Paris  88  55  
Philadelphia  67  54  
Rome  82  55  
Seattle  72  54  
South Bend  74  51  
Spokane  69  53  
Sturgis  70  52  
Tampa  64  61  
Tokyo  75  61  
Trenton  70  50  
Washington, D.C.  70  54  
Winston-Salem  74  51  


Over the past four years, occasionally I have stopped at random places on campus and ­thought to myself: "Did my father stand here, too?" And I wondered what my dad was like when he was my age. 
When I'm hanging out with Notre Dame guys at a party, I sometimes wonder: "Was my dad like this?" Usually I shake my head and pray he wasn't. 
Sometimes when I'm in Farley, Morrissey or Pangborn-halls where my dad lived-I've often thought to myself: "What was my dad's room like here? And how did he survive with lights out at 10 p.m?" . 
My favorite story my dad tells about h~s ye~rs here is about the times when the Umversity bused women in from various colleges in the area. 
As the story goes, after the "mixer" my father and his pals followed the young ladies to the bus and proceeded to shake the bus. I guess the thought of making it through the cold winter without companionship was a bit too much for these guys to handle. While I can't recall seeing such a scene in my four years here, I have witnessed some bizarre mating rituals in my day. 
My dad has told our family over and ov?r again about his times hanging out at Rocco s. He laughed when he found out that me and my friends go to Rocco's for the same reason he did: Sorry, Rocco, but it's not the sauce. . 
I also love hearing about the road tnps my dad and his friends took. He's told me about the time he travelled to Michigan State. Once again, his mission-to meet women. Well, twenty-five years later, I too travelled to Michigan State. I went in a convertible and "broke parietals" with a co-ed group, and dad went by train and probably attended another "mixer." . . 
Even though we have many expenences m common, it's still hard for me to imagine my dad as a twenty-year-old. Thinking of him in situations that I'm in now helps me to realize that he's not just my father, but a person-a person with whom I have a lot in common. 
I'm glad I have another Domer in the family, someone with whom I can talk football and show off the latest merchandise from the bookstore. It's been fun sharing the past four years with my dad, and I look forward to a lifetime of friendship, love and, of course, football games with a very special fellow alum. 
Senior Week Staff 
Production Photo 
Cristina Ortiz Marguerite Schropp 
Cheryl Moser Pat McHugh 
News Lab Tech 
Paul Pearson Pat McHugh 
Sandy Wiegand VIewpoint 
Dave Kinney Joe Moody 
Sports Illustrations 
Jason Kelly Chrissy Prask 
Jim Vogl Graphics 
Accent John Rock 
Jahnelle Harrigan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Forcast for noon, 
WEATHER REPORT 
Friday, May 15 
60s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

Pressure 

H L 
g 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
CAMPUS 

Rid_glev arrested for trespassing 
• SOUTH BEND -Notre Dame junior TRoy Ridgley was arrested early Tuesday morning by the St. .Joseph County Police. According to Sgt. Charlie Fei~ell, Ri_dgley allegedly broke into a house at 52088 .Justme Dnve at 
4:30 p.m. Monday and stole fishing and stereo equipment valued at about $2,300._ R~dgley has b~en charged with one count each of cnmmal trespassmg and criminal mischief, according to the St. .Joseph County Prosecutor's Office. He is currently out on bond, and is scheduled to appear in St. Joseph County court on May 28, the office said. 
Yant wins Red Smith Scholarship 
• NOTRE DAME -Observer Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant a junior American studies major from Fort Way~e. Ind., has been awarded the 1992-93 Red Smith Writing Scholarship, which is given annually by the American studies department to a senior-to-be "who is recognized by the faculty to be a promising writer," according to Robert Schmuhl, acting department chairman. Yant called the award "a boGst to my confidence as a writer." Funded by private and corporate donations, the scholarship honors Pulitzer­Prize-winning sports writer Red Smith, a 1927 Notre Dame graduate who died in 1982. 
Parkin~ for campus visito~~ announced_ 
• NOTR DAME -Parking for VISitors to campus IS available near the intersection of Old .Juniper Road and University Club Drive (southwest of the stadium). Addi­tional visitor parking is available off Bulla Road east of .Juniper Road. Signs indicating these parking areas are posted along area roads. 
Juni~er Road to close for two weeks 
• NO RE DAME -A portion of Juniper Road north of Douglas Road will be closed for two weeks beginning Monday, May 18, St. Jose~h County has advised University officials. County officials also report construction continues at the intersection of .Juniper Road and Edison Road. Work at both intersections should be completed in late August or early September. Motorists should expect significant traffic delays at both intersections. Old .Juniper Road between Lake Road and the Center for Social Concerns is scheduled for repairs some time in .July. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ May 14 VOLUME IN SHARES 
NYSE INDEX 1.70
241 ,494,010 227.72 ~---..._S&P COMPOSITE 

3.31 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
-o 

3,397.47 -o 23.1 
PRECIOUS METALS ll $ 2.30 to $338.40/oz. -'i) 2.1¢ to $4.107/oz. 
FORECAST: 
Partly sunny and much warmer Friday with highs in the mid­70s. Mostly sunny and warmer Saturday with highs 
in the mid-80s. 
TEMPERATURES: 

ICE SUNNY PTCLOUDY CLOUDY 
Law School araduates attend service 
• NOTRE DAE -Graduates of the University of Notre Dame Law School and their families will attend a prayer service Sunday at 10 a.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Prior to the service, at 9:45 a.m., the 175 law graduates will depart from the South Quad in front of the law school for a procession to Sacred Heart. There will be a diploma distribution and hooding ceremony for the law graduates at 4:30 p.m. beside the reflecting pool outside the Hesburgh Library. During the ceremony Notre Dame president Fr. Edward Malloy, C.S.C., will speak, and Fernand Dutile, acting de_an of the law school, will give the charge to the graduatmg class. 
Minoritv Life director elected to NAWE 
• SAINTMARY'S -Patricia Washington, director of the Office of Minority, International and Non-Traditional Student Life at Saint Mary's, has been elected to a two­year term as ethnic member-at-l~rge with !he Nati?nal Association for Women in EducatiOn (NAWE). Washmg­ton's responsibilities with the NAWE will include serving as a member of the executive board and chairing the as­sociation's ethnic women's caucus. The association pro­vides programs and professional support in the areas of administration, counseling and individual development, activities and services, teaching and research, govern­ment, agency and special programs and continuing edu­cation to more that 1,800 members nationwide. 
En~ineerinR oicks Silliman top teacher 
• OTRE DME-Steven Silliman, associate pro­fessor of civil engineering and geological sciences, has been named the College of Engineering outstanding teacher for the 1991-92 academic year, according to An­thony Michel, McCloskey dean of the College. Silliman is known for his stimulating presentation of subject mate­rial, interest in student progress and the ability to relate his research to classroom projects, said Michel. 
NO Folk Choir to visit England. Ireland 
• NOTRE DAME -The University of Notre Dame Folk Choir will visit England and Ireland from May 18 to .June 14.Included in the ensemble's English itinerary will be a concert in Canterbury Cathedral and a visit to Lambeth Palace where members will meet with Anglican Archbisbop George Carey, who serves on the advisory board of Notre Dame's Ecumenical Institute for Advanced Theological Studies at Tantur near .Jerusalem. In Ireland, the itinerary will include visits and performances of sacred music in Dublin, Kilkenny, Moneenroe, Glenstal Abbey and Galway. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1911: The U.S. Supreme Court found the Standard Oil Company guilty of restriant of trade and ordered its dissolution within six months. 

• 
In 1948: -:-'le U.S. became the first nation to recognize the state of Israel. 

• 
In 1969: Abe Fortas resigned from the U.S. Supreme Court, becoming t~e first justice to resign under public criticism. 

• 
In 1974: Yielding to pressure from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, A.H. Robins Company took the Dalkon Shield off the market. 

• 
In 1985: At least 11 people died when fire swept through 


The Observer 

Friday, May 15, 1992 page 3 



Valedictorian McGrath leaves ND with perfect 4.0 
By SANDY WIEGAND 
Assistant News Editor 
1992 Valedictorian Sarah McGrath will leave the Univer­sity of Notre Dame with an un­blemished 4.0 cumulative grade point average. 
McGrath, an English and phi­losophy major from Pittsburg, Kansas, where she finished at the head of her high school class, said she never worked specifically toward being Notre Dame's valedictorian. 
"I never really aimed that high or thought in those terms," she said. "But it's actually been real enjoyable." 
McGrath said she plans to "address concerns that deal with both Notre Dame and the nation" in her commencement speech Sunday. Her activities during her years at Notre Dame, as a volunteer for the World Hunger Coalition and Sex Offense Services, seem to reflect this multi-level interest. 


Congratulations, Patrick 
We're so proud of you! Keep that winning smile. 
Lots of love, Mom, Dad, Andy and all your family 
L...-----------------------.....1 

to enter graduate school in a year to pursue a doctorate in English. She hopes to become a university English professor. 
McGrath will marry Tim Bauman, a second-year Notre Dame law school student, this summer, she said. 
The other highest ranking graduates are, in the College of Arts and Letters; Joseph Sophy, an English and philosophy ma­jor, and Margaret Rose Boyce, an English and French major. 
In the College of Business 

Sarah McGrath 

Administration, highest rank­The valedictorian said she is ings were earned by Thomas seeking employment in social Hester, an accounting major; work for the summer, but plans Frank Agostino, an accounting 
and Italian major; and Jason Bixby, an accounting major. 
In the College of Engineering, highest rankings were earned by Huan-Pu Cui, an electrical engineering and math major; Michael Linnert, an electrical engineering major; and David Tomasula, a chemical engineer­ing major. 
In the College of Science, highest rankings were earned by Huan-Pu Cui; James Hrach, a preprofessional studies major; Robert Stevenson, a math major; and Ronald Severino, a preprofessional studies and Italian major. 

Lynch named SMC valedictorian 
By AMY BENNETT 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Theresa Lynch, Saint Mary's 1992 valedictorian, considers her two main focuses during her four years at Saint Mary's to have been the women's movement and the environmen­tal movement. 
Lynch will graduate with a 
3.97 grade point average. She majored in English Literature, with a Women's Studies minor. 
Lynch is from Joliet, Ill., directing 
COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION FACULTY AWARDS, 1992 
where she attended Saint Fran­cis Academy. The high school has since been changed to Joliet Catholic Academy. Becoming the Valedictorian was never Lynch's main goal. "It's never been competitive with me -it's been exciting," she said. "I never did what I did just so I could be valedictorian. Of course, that doesn't mean I'm not happy about it." 
Lynch's activities at Saint Mary's include founding and co­the Center· for 
DISTINGUISHED FACULTY SERVICE AWARD, sponsored by the College of Business Administration Advisory Council: 
MICHAEL J. ETZEL 
SENIOR CLASS OUTSTANDING TEACHER AWARD, sponsored by AMOCO: KEVIN P. SCANLON 
MBA OUTSTANDING TEACHER AWARD, sponsored by the MBA Program: MICHAELJ.SANDRETTO 
EXECUTIVE MBA OUTSTANDING TEACHER AWARD, sponsored by the Executive MBA program: 
JOHN A. WEBER 
DINCOLO OUTSTANDING JUNIOR FACULTY AWARD in the Department of Accountancy: 
GREGORY TROMPETER 
CONGRATULATIONS TO ALL FACULTY FOR A GREAT YEAR 
Women's Alliance as part of the first women's studies internship at Saint Mary's. 
Lynch also served as a co­chair of the Saint Mary's Cam­pus Alliance for Rape Elimina­tion (C.A.R.E.). 
Working closely with profes­sors was very important to Lynch during her Saint Mary's career. She helped Professor Ted Billy and Professor Laura Haigwood develop a new English course, as well as working with Professor Linnea 
Vacca in the development of a 
• new English/Women's Studies course at Saint Mary's. 
"The whole collection of fac­

ulty have been absolutely mon­
umental," in terms of support­
ing her endeavors, Lynch said. 
She refers to Vacca as her 

mentor. "She has been one of 
the most significant influences 
on my life, intellectuaHy as well 
as otherwise," Lynch says of 
Vacca. "She's a very close 
friend." 
In her valedictory speech, Lynch plans to address women's education. 
After graduation, Lynch will move to Los Angeles, where she plans to work. 

the Term mean the End of your Insurance Protection? 
If your insurance ends when you leave school, you are unpro­tected against illness or acci­dent. Short Term protection from Time Insurance provides medical coverage for a variety of periods at reasonable rates. And the plan can be signed and issued on the spot, with cover­age beginning immediately. Of course, there's no coverage for pre-existing conditions. 
You may need this necessary protection. Let me tell you abqut it. 
CHELLY FRANK 
ROBERT L FRANK & ASSOC , INC. 240 Rue DeVille South Bend. IN 46615 
Bus. (219) 233-3936 
TIME INSURANCE COMPANY 


----~--------------­
The Observer 

page 4 Friday, May 15, 1992 
esc to recognize seniors in volunteer send-off 

By SANDY WIEGAND Assistant News Editor 
Notrn Dame and Saint Mary's seniors who plan to do post­graduate service work will be recognized by the Center for Soeial Concerns (CSC) tomorrow at the third annual Senior Volunteer Send-Off. 
Volunteers and their parents, friends and rectors are invited to the ceremony, which begins at 1Q,:30 a.m. in Washington llal11 1 ~e.ccording to Mary Ann Hoemer. coordinator of senior and ~umni programs at the CSC. A reception at Theodore's will fullow the send-ofT. 
University President Father Edward Malloy will speak briefly of the value of service, 
ND 
continued from page 1 
Administration and 175 students in the Law School. 
Sarah McGrath, the 1992 valedictorian, will deliver the valedictory address. 
Those unable to see the cere­monies in person can watch them free of charge on closed­circuit television in the Center for Continuing Education, which can accommodate as many as 1,000 viewers in its various facilities. Seating will be available bf1ginning at noon. 
During the ceremonies, U.S. Senator Daniel Patrick Moyni­han (D-N. Y.) will accept the University's Laetare Medal, the oldest and most prestigious award given to American Catholics. Notre Dame has pre­sented the award annually since 1883. 
Other recipients of University honorary degrees will include: 
• 
Hepresentative Wilhelmina Delco, speaker pro tempore of the Texas House of Representa­tives. Delco, who will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree, is the first woman and second black representative to serve as speaker pro tempore, the second highest position in the assembly. 

• 
Father Carl Ebey, provincial superior of the Indiana Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Ebey, who will re­ceive an honorary doctor of laws degree, was elected to a six-year term in 1988 and di­rects the 450-member province. 


A 1962 graduate of Notre Dame, Ebey also serves as a 
Roemer said, and M.J. Murray Vachon, a 1982 Saint Mary's graduate, will tell of her expe­riences as a volunteer with the Holy Cross Associates Program. Father Don McNeill, CSC director, will offer a blessing. 
A 10-minute slide show focus­ing on volunteer activities at Notre Dame will be shown, Hoerner said, since student in­volvement in projects like the Urban Plunge and Christmas in April often sparks interest in "more intense" service. 
Urban Plunge exposes volun­teers to city life, and Christmas in April involves repairing houses for needy owners. 
The send-off, Roemer said, is "nice for parents, who some­times think their kids are the 
• Juanita Kreps, vice presi­dent emeritus at Duke Univer­sity. Kreps, who will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree, served as U.S. Secretary of Commerce under President Jimmy Carter, and has been active in many educational, governmental and philanthropic organizations. 
Kreps joined the Duke faculty in 1958, and has served the university as dean of its Woman's College, assistant provost and vice president. 
• William Pfaff III, author and syndicated newspaper columnist. Pfaff, who will re­ceive an honorary doctor of laws degree, has written columns for the International Herald Tribune in Paris since 1978. 
Pfaff, a 1949 graduate of Notre Dame, was written essays under the title "Reflections" for The New Yorker magazine since 1971. A former editor for the Catholic lay magazine Commonweal, Pfaff is currently working on a book on the significance of nationalism. 
• Chang-Lin Tien, chancellor of the University of California at Berkeley. Tien, who will receive an honorary doctor of engineering degree, became the first Asian-American to head a major U.S. research university in 1990 when he became Berkeley's chancellor. 
Born in Wuhan, China, Tien was educated in Shanghai and Taiwan, where his family fled after World War II. After fin­ishing undergraduate work at National Taiwan University, he earned his master's degree at the University of Louisville and his doctorate at Princeton Uni­only ones who do this kind of thing." 

About 115 seniors have regis­tered for the send-off, Roemer said. and walk-ins are welcome. About 150 seniors per year opt for post-graduate service, she said. 
The Holy Cross Associates Program is consistently popular with Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, and has at­tracted almost 40 seniors this year, Hoerner said. The Peace Corps, Jesuit Volunteer Corps and Teach for America pro­grams are also popular. 
Some students choose post­graduate service because they are considering attending graduate school to pursue ser­vice as a career, Hoerner said, 
Congratulations Saint Mary's College Class of 1992 
Welcome to the Alumnae Association! 
•Need 
information about the alumnae club nearest you? 

•
Interested in career networking? 

•
Interested in being an Alumnae Admission Council volunteer? 

•
Interested in being a class reporter for Courier! •Moving? 

•
Getting married? 


KEEP IN TOUCH WITH US SO WE CAN KEEP IN TOUCH WITH YOU! 
(219)284-4578 110 Le Mans Hall Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, IN 46556 Fax: (219)284-4716 
but want to have real experi­ence before they commit. This year, a poor job market is an additional incentive for service, Roemer commented. 
Senior Daniel Laboe will teach English in Africa next year, he said, explaining that after his years at Notre Dame, paid for by his parents, "I felt I'd like to give something back for once, and kind of stand on my own for once." 
MIK 
YOU'VE COME A LONG WAY, BABY! WE ARE SO PROUD OF YOU! 
LOVE, MOM, DAD, & CLANCY 
Jody Bellis, an art major, said there is a "good chance" that she will pursue a career in ser­vice. For the next two years, Bellis will teach four or five subjects in Samoa, probably at the secondary level. 
"I have always wanted to do volunteer work after I gradu­ated," Bellis said. "I wanted to go somewhere very different from where I'm from. Samoa just kind of fell into my lap." 


Friday, May 15, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Reduce, Reuse, Recycle. 

By DAVID KINNEY 
News Editor 
American Catholic bishops will hold their semi-annual meeting this June at Notre Dame amid the possibility that some bishops might not attend the meeting in opposition of the University's decision to award 
U.S. Sen. Daniel Patrick Moyni­han the 1992 Laetare Medal. 
The bishops were invited to hold the meeting at Notre Dame in recognition of the Uni­versity's sesquicentennial cele­bration, according to Bill Ryan of the office for media relations of the Catholic Bishop's Confer­ence. 
At the meeting, to be held June 18-21, about 250 of the nation's 300 bishops will con­sider a pastoral letter titled "Called to Be One in Christ Je­sus: A Pastoral Response to Concerns of Women for Church and Society," said Ryan. The bishops will also discuss a plan for the evangelization of the unchurched. 
A May 8 story from the New York Times Service reported that faculty members and at least one University official at 
Daly will not attend ceremonies 
Notre Dame said they heard reports that it was possible that some bishops might boycott the meeting as a result of the decision to honor Moynihan. 
Joseph Zwilling, a spokesman for John Cardinal O'Connor of New York, said that although O'Connor is opposed to Moyni­han's selection, "the meeting is still on the cardinal's schedule." 
"The Archdiocese of New York is not involved in any boy­cott," he added. 
John Walsh, a spokesman for Bernard Cardinal Law of Boston, also said that he had heard of no plans of a boycott of the meeting. 
But a letter sent to University President Father Edward Mal­loy by the Catholic bishops of Pennsylvania left open the pos­sibility that the decision to honor Moynihan could force them to boycott the meeting. 
"We wish to clarify that should we decide to attend the long-planned meeting of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, our presence should in no way be interpreted as an approbation of this ill-consid­ered award," the letter read. 
Bishops to meet at N D amid rumors of boycotts 
Bishops issue letter of opposition 
Editor's note: The following is the text of a letter sent to University President Father Edward Malloy by the Catholic Bishops of Pennsylvania and released to the public yesterday: 
We the Catholic Bishops of Pennsylvania, meeting on May 13, 1992, wish to express our deep distress with the University of Notre Dame's decision to award the Laetare Medal to Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan. We are profoundly troubled because this medal is intended for a Catholic 'whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the church and enriched the heritage of humanity"' 
While we recognize Senator Moynihan's positive 
To David, my bright and shining star. I know you will make@#Nr as fine a nuclear submariner as you are a son. I love you and I am so proud ofyou. 
Love, Mom 

By PAUL PEARSON Associate News Editor 
Cabal Cardinal Daly, arch­bishop of Armagh and primate of Ireland, will not be attending Notre Dame's Commencement ceremonies as scheduled Sun­day. 
Daly's office telephoned the University last week and said that he would not be attending, according to Dennis Moore, di­rector of Public Relations and Information. 
No specific reason was given to the University for Daly's cancellation. The cardinal's of­fice said "that he just wasn't able to leave Ireland at this time," Moore said. 
One of Daly's bishops, Ea-
saying that he would be doing missionary work, according to a report in the South Bend Tri­bune. 
Casey admitted Monday that he had a longtime affair with a Connecticut woman and that he fathered her 17-year-old son, the Tribune said. 
Daly, considered the leading intellectual in the Catholic Church in Ireland for more than 20 years, has frequently called for an end to violence in Northern Ireland. He was scheduled to receive an honorary doctor of laws degree from the University. 
Despite his cancellation, Daly "regretted very mu.ch missing the commencement ceremony," Moore said. 

contributions in certain public policy areas, we cannot overlook his consistently pro­abortion voting record. We believe that this voting record is directly contradictory to the 'ideals of the church' and the consistent teachings of the Church on the sanctity of all human life. 
As Catholic bishops, to­gether with the Holy Father, we have consistently taught that it is not possible to be personally opposed to abor­tion but in favor of public policies that permit abortion. In 1989, the Bishops of the United States clearly ar­ticulated this position in our Resolution on Abortion when we said "No Catholic can re­sponsibly take a 'pro-choice' stand when the 'choice' in question involves the taking of innocent human life." 
As we the bishops of Pennsylvania pointed out in our 1990 statement of public policy and abortion, "Advocates of this position would never apply such logic to any other serious moral matter including racial seg­regation, child labor, ethnic and religious bigotry or sexual harassment." 
Finally, as the Catholic bishops of the United States plan to gather at Notre Dame in June, we wish to clarify that should we .decide to attend the long-planned meeting of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, our presence should in no way be interpreted as an approbation of this ill­considered award. 
-------.,  
~--~------------~-------------.---------------------------------------------------~------­ 
Page 6  The Observer  Friday, May 15, 1992  

Catherine Sheehy Heather Grob Randy DeCleene Mahesh Subramanya Stephen M. Hayes Christine J. Shank Margaret Nowlin Amy Christensen Michael R. Sherer Linda A. Sharp Barbara Moran Michelle Gannon Kerry O'Neil Joe Cannon Laura Bayard Jeanmarie Murtagh Jeff Haynes Neil J. Grasso Jeanine Villalobos Jean A. Pee Ron Hogan Kevin Charles Gibley Gabe Stix Wally Lumpkin Kathryn Ryan-Zengner Catherine Cunningham Patrick M. Birge Roy P. Landry Mary Dittrich Catherine L. Charlene Avallone Timothy Bauman Patrick M. Murphy Dana Leccese VanDenDriessche Ava Collins Katharine L. Brown Laura Polutanovich James Gannon Alan D. Krieger Kathy A. Psomiade Mike Scrudato Jennifer Bregenzer Colin McCrossin Barbara A. Connelly David J. Mack Trung 'fu Amy K. Heesacker James Strikas Rachel Farina David Kennedy Cheryl 'fucker Chris Bacon Gabriele Clark Tom McDonald Carla E. Garcia John Paul Angesi Tom Fellrath Mark T. Morgan Margaret E. O'Shaughnessy Jennifer A. Bristy Amy Shiber Susanne Hannappel Frank Barletta Matthew J. Hynes Lisa Robinson Katherine MacNeil Lisa Jordan Michael Conty Newhouse Mari Okuda Kimberly Thornton Regina Weaver Nikole Neidlinger Marcial Sardoval Vaneeta Monteiro Annette Semanchin Jennifer Glass Armando Saldivar Anton Salud Anne Volk Ann Lagges Karl Domangue Nicole Coates Adine Rodemeyer John S. Hirschfeld King R. Gilotte David Kirsten M. Dunne Patricia Tierney Elizabeth H. Peterson John Patrick Riley Ke\lin McDonough Paul T. Roy Steve Egyhazi Peter J. Campbell, Jr. Mike Coman, CSC Jennifer Crosson Jon Paul Potts Charles A. Bazata J. Michael Vore Mary H. Beaton Amy Eckert Jennifer Fiss JoAnn Bazata Debra L. DeLaet Susan E. Murphy Shannon Ledesma Kathleen Welsh Michelle Gadrow Kurt A. Mills Bonnie J. Burnett Christine E. Labaree Michael Tembrina Elizabeth A. Lee Bryn Umhofer Gaetana A. Lenox Kristin A. Lynch Terry Walsh Brad Hunter Chela L. Johnson Darrell R. Paulsen Daimon L. Sweet Nadine Gallagher Richard Arndt John Szabo Dan Cebrick Laura Schwingel Jason Anderson Rick Arndt Jr. Mark Fitzgerald Brigid Murphy-Racey Tony Gentine Lynn Erven Joel Gard Brian Fitzpatrick Kristin Sadie Elizabeth Briesemeister Richard Grey Michael Liger Benjamin Radcliff Regina C. Wilson Michaela Bruzzese Susan M. Marx Andy Song Joel Freiburger Ilene M. Stanford Yousef Al-herimi David M. Geist Peter Sramek Elizabeth Bone John Donahue, S.J. Ellen R. Ott Elizabeth Strom Erin B. Brinckley Tom Sweder Catherine Murphy Aixa S. Quiros Chad Ziolkowski Shara A. Tackett Tracey Bartos Michelle Tambor Sarah L. VanDenBerg John Fonash Anna Snyder Katie Bessiere Jennifer M. Carr Teresa J. Uheda Vaughn R. McKim Christina Soletti 
Mark D. Meyerson Corinne Winter 
John H. Yoder Kathleen Beatty, SSJ 
Phillip R. Sloan Juliet Muccillo 
WE OBJECT TO THE 
Edward Manier Benedict Giamo 
Kenneth M. Sayre Gerardo Moore 
ADMINISTRATION'S SELECTION OF 
Greg Kucich Scott DeCleene 
Dean W. Zimmerman Cathi DeCleene 
GEORGE BUSH FOR THE FOLLOWING 
Sun-Joo Shin Rich Pagen 
Michael L. Martino Robert Vega 
REASONS: 
Kristin M. Niichel Michelle Tooley 
Michael J. Glastetter Sorin Spohn 
Charles Schleck Christopher Burke 
•This is our commencement, not a political forum; as such inviting 
David Gasperetti

.a.nx political candidate is inappropriate.
Deborah A. DeLuca 
Francesco Rochberg 

•The administration should have consulted the Notre Dame students 
Christopher Hamlin

David Reed Solomon 
and faculty in making this decision.
Brin Bar;tholomy 
Thomas Kselman Karen M. Pillar 
Kevin J. Christiano Carmen K. Lund 
David M. Klein Christi Corbett 
PLEASE WEAR A WHITE ARMBAND AT 
Joan Aldous Heidi A. Finniff 
Jong-il You John P. Doherty 
GRADUATION TO SHOW YOUR 
Marc Jarsulic John Kim 
Gregory E. Sterling Caroline J. Brock 
OPPOSITION!!! 
Blake Leyerle Linda M. Chalk 
John W. Wright Luke Anderson 
Robert P. Burke Candace Howes Laura Curliss Drayton Kyles Rachel I. Howard Jay Dobrutsky Colin Clary Lorraine L. VanDaiser Sharon Miller Emily J. Lehrman Jill Ross Sean O'Brien Jude McLein Dennis Prichett William 0. Albertini James Dougherty Hannah Kettler Jim Byrne Robert Lee Trzaskowski Elizabeth M. Trigg Patrick Gaffney Melissa Moye Terry Coyne Miguel Naranjo Martha J. Poorman Rosemarie Green Brian Muller Vince Wong James Welsh George Smith Rebecca A. Fewkes Rene 0. Sanchez Lance H. Cochran Fred Hiniker Bill Updike Cathy Burch Chris Kelly Michael Beveridge Shirley J. Truhn Barbara Henkels Sr. Francis Bernard, CSC Terry De Simone Barry Baumbaugh Frank Wilkerson Kevin Flaherty Haim Gordon Tamarin Lynn Hannon Jeffrey Marchant Charles Craypo Rev. Thomas Carten, CSC Rivca Gordon Bradley J. Mayer MaryYu Mason M. Evans Bridget Spann Sheryl K. Jackson Richard Deely Brad Grabs Sean Garvey Laura J. Ziliak David Burrell, CSC Sara L. Marion Joseph Bettinger Jeffrey Jotz Shaheen K. Goldrick Andy Weigert Steve Zavestoski Larissa Wenning J. Michael Mann Annie Cahill Betty Messenger Jason L. Winslade Darren D'Amato James Hafley JimmyVenza John Messenger Douglas Klosterman David Brach John Billington Robert S. Schoenbauer Elizabeth Forbis Nathan R. Klosterman Stacey R. 'furner Tamara K. Loewen Jennie Tranel Kathleen Maas Weigert James Peterson Merrill A. Clark Jason Hock Jill Jones Jay W. Brandenberger James J. Costigan Radames Velazquez Patrick Cummings Erin Ariel M. Smith Kathy Royer Greg Murphy Lisa J. Bernstein Neal Austin Bob Raccuglia Mary Ann Roemex Theodore E. Mandell Andy Dopheide Arlene Demier Chris Greiveldinger Sandra Barton Mark L. Berrettini Michael P. Griffin Laura LaYelle Jill M. Miller Sue C. Cunningham Hilary Radner Betsy Harkins Amy Petrosky Rodrigo del Valle Carol Porter Patrick Clarke Carol Szambelan Paul Rowe Regina Coll CSJ Ardis J. King Julia Douthwaite Jennifer Evans Harrison Keller Christine Kempf Patricia M. Flynn James M. Collins Carlos Salinas Tom McDermott, CSC Barbara J. Jennings Emerson Funk Gerald L. Bruns George Williams Michelle Tholey Michael A. Lutes Jackie Smith Barbara Green Willie Bruening John Welle Beverly M. Jennings Cristian Corres Ellen Spiering Melissa Larmoyeux Vanessa Hansen James MacKenzie Curtis A. Webb Dannika Simpson Kathleen Biddick Kenneth Lamkin Kimberly Baum Mary Murphy Monique White Heidi Coster Marilyn A. Witulski Jeanine Villabbos Noreen Wolohan James Grogan Christine M. Kush 
R. Douglas Orsagh Kathryn J. O'Connor Kelley Gartland Lori A. McCune Bill Polking Kelley J. 'futhill Audrey Rutherford John W. Karkiewicz John Bruns Kristen Clark Bridget Riordan Randall W. Jennings 

---------~--~-----------~~------------------~~-----­
Friday, May 15, 1992 page i
The Observer 

Alumni response to Moynihan selection mixed 

~l «_~_~_:_~-------------------U-·~_;_~_"~-~-~-~_J;_,:!»_~_~.·_·r-~-·--~J~~=~;=~=?ma=:~:~:~:~:n=d=m=a~~======;=====~ 
By MONICA YANT 
Editor-in-Chief 
Disapproval of Notre Dame's decision to award the Laetare Medal to Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan (D-N.Y.) has led some alumni on the east coast to 
Congratulations Graduating Seniors! 
Best Wishes 
Love. BP ttall 
. 
I 
• 
I 
• 
I 
! • 
! ~ 
! \ or 
voice their concern to University President Father Edward Malloy. 
Notre Dame has been under fire from bishops in New York, Boston and Pennsylvania who believe Moynihan's pro-choice views on abortion are inconsis­tent with Catholicism. Some have argued that this inconsis­tency makes Moynihan unde­serving of the oldest and most prestigious honor to American Catholics. 
Bishops in Pennsylvania sent Malloy a letter at their Spring meeting Thursday expressing concern that the senator's "voting record is directly con­tradictory to the 'ideals of the Church' and the consistent teachings on the Church on the sanctity of all human life." Last week, John Cardinal O'Connor of the Archdiocese of New York expressed similar discontent to Malloy. 
Bishop John D'Arcy of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend announced Thursday that he would not attend Sunday's commencement in opposition to the award. 
Hal Spencer, president of the Long Island club, said he has received "dozens and dozens" of calls from dismayed alumni. 

ThYOTh 

ACCEITS 
SHEEPSKINS 
FOR CREDIT. 
Here's proof that your diploma is definitely worth more than the piece of paper it's written on. In fact, it can get you into a wild, yet practical, '92 Toyota Paseo. Or any one of our quality cars and trucks. 
Okay, motivated collegians, you can now take advantage of the incredible Toyota Class of '92 Retail Fmancing Program-if your diploma is from a four­year college, graduate school or regis­tered nursing program. Even if you're six months away from graduation. The hot scoop: Your dream Toyota can be 
SEE YOUR 
TOY<YI'A DEALER 
"Finance charges accrue from the contract date. Dererred payment not available in New Jersey on V<"hid"with acash selling price olless than SIO.OOO. 0199? 10yota Motor Sale!'., U.SA.Inc. 
·my·se.W.ice!. ';oti:> 
yours for no money down and a 90-day• deferred payment! We offer you all this plus special College Grad 
finance rates. For even lower monthly payments, talk to your Toyota dealer about leasing. 
So, call it a diploma. Or call it a sheepskin. But be sure to calll-800-5­COLLEGE for the location of your near­est Toyota dealer .-----~ and a brochure MOTORT(M)TA ITMCC I with full details CREDIT and qualification CORPORATION 
requirements. 

"There's absolutely nobody for r~d~e~c;;;is;;,;;i;,;,on;.;..;,;h;,;;a;;;;s..;;n;.;;o;.;;t~o;,;,;n~e..;u;.;n;,;,n;.;;o;.;;ti;.;;.c;,;,;e,;;.d_____s_e_e_A_L_U_M_N_I/_p_a_g_e-14 
Congratulations Chris 
We are so proud of you! 
Love, Dad, Mom, Carrie 
it," he said of the Long Island among New York alumni. alumni. "The common discus-"There are a number of mem­sion is that everybody was just hers who aren't too pleased," aghast by it." he said. 
The reaction to Moynihan's Griswold said he knew of sev­selection as the recipient was eral alumni who wrote letters "the most opposition" to a to Malloy. Notre Dame decision that Even so, Griswold said he Spencer has ever seen among supported the University's deci­area alumni. sion on the basis of Moynihan's 
Spencer said he wrote a letter service to indigent groups. "The to Malloy expressing concern good things that he's done that Moynihan "is not a very haven't really come to thtJ front good Catholic" and unworthy of here," he said. ·r the award. That Moynihan is John Rudser, president of the "theoretically" Catholic does Greater Boston club, sild he's not necessarily mean he is a found the majority. of tl:ie over Catholic at heart, according to 2,000 Boston alumni "seem to Spencer. be in support" of Notre Dame's 
He said he received a form decision. "His lifelong service letter response -not from surpasses the abortion issue," Malloy-"trying to placate ev-Rudser said. erybody." Other alumni club presidents 
But among the majority of expressed mild concern about club presidents in New York, the announcement: Boston and Pennsylvania, the •William Staniecki, president reaction was far less harsh. of the New York City club, said 
Bob Griswold, president of he has heard little response to the Staten Island club, said the 
Nice Rentals Homes and Apartments 
Weekends/Weekly/Monthly/Annually 
Riverfront House and Apartment for Weekends 
Also student shared apartment or shared house 
Please call (219)257-9101 
IMPERIAL PALACE 
RESTAURANT 

HUNAN, CANTONESE SZECHUAN CUISINE 
~""~ 
.f'l4, 1flett .f'l4, ~Ateu. 
QUALITY f/ FRIENDLY SERVICE 
.Quick ..£wul.. ,g£JWiaL dlt dfn df(fo...datu fP'f.laL ..£wu/.. ,gEJwull]:)alfy £~ dwu/ay 
For Reservation & Carry Out Call 
271-1332 
MON-THURS 11AM-9PM FRI & SAT 11AM-10PM SUN 11AM-8PM 

5930 GRAPE ROAD 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
:tvnSHAWAKA, IN 46545 


page 8 
Reaction 
continued from page 1 
Catholic can responsibly take a 'pro-choice' stand when the 'choice' in question" involves abortion. 
The samn source added that Law wrote Malloy saying that the Church would be ill-served by the selection of Moynihan. 
"Moynihan's career uniquely combirws intellectual and polit­ical acumen." said Malloy upon the announcement of the deci­sion. "His passion for scholar­ship has made him sensible of the rea1ities of state, sensitive to the cry of the poor and commendably supportive of higher education." 
The Times reported that in replies to O'Connor and Law, Malloy said that the award is not equivalent to an endorse­ment of abortion by Notre Dame and that the University's position is consistent with that of the Church. 
Moynihan's Press Secretary Brian Connolly said that senator had "no reaction" to the opposition, adding that "Moynihan will be honored to receive the Laetare Medal." 
The senator's office had re­ceived no letters of opposition, 
The Observer 

he added. 
Dennis Moore, director of Notre Dame's office of public relations, said that the Univer­sity has received many letters from alumni and the general public expressing disapproval of the choice, particularly from New York and the east coast. 
Moore said there has been no consideration of withdrawing the award. "He is going to be here Sunday to receive the medal." 
The University has received some correspondence support­ing Notre Dame's decision to honor Moynihan, Moore said. 
Other University officials de­
---~----­
dined to discuss the opposition. 
While those opposed to the choice of Moynihan emphasize that it is impossible to be per­sonally opposed to abortion while in favor of legislation that permits the practice, others point out the distinction between pro-choice and pro­abortion. 
Father Richard McBrien, pro­fessor of theology at Notre Dame, said there must be a dis­tinction between a pro-choice stance, which is the legal view that the law must protect the rights of the people, and a pro­abortion stance, a moral posi­tion. 
Friday, May 15, 1992 
"Moynihan's position is pro­choice, not pro-abortion," said Sister Kathleen Cannon, asso­ciate provost at Notre Dame. In a political situation, a person must take into account that this is a pluralistic society, she added. 
Since civil law can only ex­press what society will allow it to express, McBrien said that popular opinion must be changed before the law can be altered. "There are many peo­ple who are pro-choice -with regret-but anti-abortion on moral grounds," he said. 
see REACTION I page 8 


---~-~----~-----------------------~-~---~~--------~~---------·----~--------­
Friday, May 15, 1992 The Observer page9 
Institute to foster Catholic identity in higher education 
By DAVID KINNEY News Editor 
In an effort to foster the unique identity of religiously­founded universities in the United States, a Catholic higher educational institute called Col­legium has been created, ac­cording to Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
Collegium, of which Notre Dame is a founding member, is designed "to bring together faculty and future faculty who are interested in exploring how their faith influences their aca­demic work and what it means to be a Catholic intellectual in our culture." 
The institute is funded by a grant from The Lilly Endow­ment, Inc., and sponsored by Fairfield University in Con­necticut in conjunction with St. John's University of Collegeville, Minn., and Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles. Approximately 50 Catholic universities and colleges in the 

Congratulations 
Amy Rynell 
filways Standing Tall 
from Mom and Dad 


U.S. are expected to participate. 
O'Meara and Sister Alice Gallin, a member of Notre Dame's board of trustees, have been named members of the founding board for the institute. 
Collegium is founded on the reality that the role of the laity in fulfilling the work of the Church is increasingly impor­tant. O'Meara said that there must be a shared responsibility for maintaining the Catholic identity of an institution. 
While many American univer-

Audrey Welling May 17, 1992 Notre Dame 

sities that were founded by re­ligious orders later chose to abandon their religious nature -including Harvard, Yale and Princeton Universities-those at Notre Dame believe that the University should maintain its Catholic identity, he said. 
Since many faculty members receive their Ph.D.s at institu­tions where religion and educa­tion are separate, O'Meara said that it is important to expose these professors to the Catholic mission of a university such as 
Kristin Welling May 16,1992 St. Mary's College 
CONGRATULATIONS TO OUR GRADUATES FROM ALL YOUR FAMILY 
Notre Dame. 

Central to the initial project of Collegium, an 8-day summer program in 1993 gathering young faculty members, gradu­ate students and senior faculty, is to encourage the possibility of an intellectual life that serves the Church. O'Meara said the program will allow participants to determine the meaning of a Catholic intellectual life. 
"The hope is that young fac­ulty will come back charged," he added. 
The program will enable par­ticipants to understa,nd the meaning and mission of a uni­versity or college with a unique Catholic identity, according to Thomas Landy, the founder and director of Collegium. 
It will consist of lectures, 
small group discussions, major 
presentations and liturgies, 
O'Meara said. Distinguished 
faculty who have been actively 
engaged in religiously-founded 
institutions will serve as men­
tors to talk about their experi­
ences and encourage partici­
pants to carry on the faith tra­
dition in their intellectual life. 

O'Meara said he hopes that 
the program will enable partic­
ipants to see the broader mis­
sion of an intellectual life and to 
place the studies in the context 
of Catholicism. 

Congratulations SaintMa~'s College 
to the Green 
NOTRE DAME o INDIANA 
Wave Seniors
Congratulations Good luck from Father
to the Saint Mary's College 
Warner, Father Scully, Tony 
Howie, Brother Ed and the rest of Fisher Hall Good luck • • We'll miss you! 
Class of 1992 
The administration, faculty, and staff of Saint Mary's College 
Grand Opening April 3rd 
Rainbow Video

Congratulations to the 
WE SPECIALIZE IN: Korean Japanese

Class of 1992! 
Chinese Video Tapes Free Membership

and 
State Road 2.~ 8 Ironwood Next to 7fJ Gas Station Mon·Sat 10 am to 10 pm Sun 12. noon to fJ pm

Congratulations to the 
(Z19) %73-9545 
school's over ... now get a real education.

parents of the class of 1992 
weeks · ·

2. 
includes
from: 
air and most meals! 
only for 18-35 year-olds! 
call (800) 466 061 0 
•tram east coast cond1tions apply 
contiki 

-~------------------------------------------------­

---------~-~~----~~----------~ -----~~----------~­
page 10 The Observer Friday, May 15, 1992 
Protesters say Bush address may be politicized 
By MONICA YANT Editor-in-Chief 
Marcie Poorman disagreed with the selection of President George Bush as Notre Dame's eommencement speaker for several reasons. 
But more than his policies or Republieanism, that Bush is eampaigning for re-eleetion told Poorman the eommencement address would be unfairly politiror.ed. "Any politieal ean­didate-would not have been ap­
propr~ate." 
i 

She1 found that a few others shan~ her view-almost 400 faeulty and students signed a petition appearing in today's Observer and a massive distri­bution of' white armbands be­fore eomnwncement may result 
Ladrech wins Fulbright Grant 
Special to The Observer 
Hobert l.adreeh, assistant professor of' politieal seienee at Saint Mary's College, has been awarded a Fulbright Grant to eonduct n~seareh on the Euro­pean eommunity in Brussels, Belgium. 
l.adn'leh teaches European and international polities at Saint Mary's, and has been a member of the faeulty sinee 1987. llis Fulbright researeh, whieh will take plaee over the next year, will focus on political party and institutional change resulting from European eom­munity integration. 
Ladreeh is one of approxi­mately 1,800 U.S. grantees who will travel abroad for the 1992 aeademie year under the Ful­bright program. The program, established in 1946 under Con­gressional IPgislation intro­dueed by former Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkansas, is intended to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and those of other countries. 
The Fulbright program is administered by the U.S. In­formation Ageney under guide­lines established by the presi­dentially appointed .J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board and a number of' private organizations. Scholarships are awarded through open compe­tition. 
Congratultions! from The Observer 
Send to: The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 

for only $30 per semester or $50 for the whole year. 
Name 
Address City State Zip 
in a peaceful protest up to BOO­strong. 
The protesters are concen­trating speeifieally on Bush's presenee at commencement. Poorman said the group has not discussed support or opposition to the awarding of the Laetare Medal to Sen. Daniel Patriek Moynihan lD-N.Y.) amid charges from two high-ranking bishops that his views on abortion are ineonsistent with Catholicism. 
Poorman said she believes Bush will use the eommenee­ment speech as a means to garner political support from the "captive audience" of over 2,300 students and their fami­lies. 
"We wanted to protest ... but we didn't want to do anything to disrupt [commeneement]," Poorman said. "We wanted to 
Congratulations! 
Love, Your Family ; 

Store Your Stuff ! 
(for the summer) 
~~M. ·s
at the IDI torageDe ot 
I on McKinley 

Get a subscription to The Observer 
make a public statement that the University does not support Bush." 
Poorman and six other se­niors have worked since Easter on their strategy. A letter to The Observer April 27 outlined their protest: 
"This is our commencement and not a political forum: as such inviting any politieal ean­didate is inappropriate," the letter read. "Some of us may vote for George Bush, while others may not. However, all of us believe that the University's invitation is in reality a de facto endorsement." 
Organizers Shannon Ledesma, Jennifer Evans, Chris­tine Kempf, Kristi Niiehel, Catherine Sheehy, Moira McGee and Poorman cireulated peti­tions among undergraduate and graduate students, and in­terested faculty. The petitions were also available for signing during a demonstration at Fieldhouse Mall April 23 and at Jerry Brown's campaign visit to Notre Dame April 28. 
Hoping to earn enough money to pay for a full-page ad in The Observer, the organizers asked those signing to donate $1. The group was short of funds until donations at a Gender Studies graduate banquet Wednesday netted the final $75. 
Coneerned students and fac­ulty have been encouraged to wear armbands during Sun­day's commeneement. Poorman said 30 armbands will be dis­tributed in every residenee hall this weekend, whieh could en­courage up to 750 participants. 
.;;; . 
':t51Seniors 
Engineering 
The 30 armbands she placed in Deeio Faculty Hall last Friday morning were gone by that afternoon, aceording to Poor­man. 
Although Poorman has sensPd greater support from faculty than students, she said the disparity is "not overwhelming." 
Poorman said the organizers do not anticipate any eon­frontations with the adminis­tration or Secret Serviee at eomrnencement. The armbands are aetually pieces of torn sheets whieh Poorman stressed "are very harmless." 
She added that those protesting by wearing the arm­bands are committed to voealiz­ing their diseontent peacefully and will not disrupt the com­mencement. 
· 

and have the latest Notre Dame and Saint Mary's news and sports delivered to you 
-----------~­
-------------~-----------~ ~­
Friday, May 15, 1992 The Observer 
page 11 

New York Times columnist named Welch professor 
Special to The Observer 
Author and New York Times columnist Andrew Malcolm has been named W. Harold and Martha Welch Visiting Professor of American Studies at Notre Dame for 1992-93, according to Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
As Welch professor, Malcolm will teach two classes each semester, beginning in the fall with "Canada and The United States: Best Friends, Like It or Not" and "Writing and Ethics." 
Malcolm will draw on 25 years of experience as New York Times foreign correspondent, editor, national affairs correspondent and twice-weekly columnist. He has reported for the Times from the United Nations, San Francisco, Vietnam and Thailand and has been the newspaper's bureau chief in Tokyo, Toronto and 
Chris Adams, 1992 Notre Dame Grad! 

Now That's something to grin about! Love, Mom, Dad, Erin, and Papa 
Move up to •MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS• 
• 
2 Bedroom Luxury Apartments (4 Apartments per Building) 

• 
Locked Entry with Intercom System 

• 
Full size Washer and Dryer for each Apartment 

• 
Pool and Clubhouse facilities 

• 
6 minutes from Campus 

• 
Flexible lease terms 

• 
Bring in this Ad for $50 off 1st months rent For further infomu~tion call 277-3731 Located m Cleveland and Bendix 


RYDER TRUCK RENTAL 
ROADS 
You don't have to graduate 
magna cum laude to show eVIlryone how smart you are. Just rent from Ryder every time you make a move, whether it's 
Chicago. 
Malcolm is the author of eight books, including "The Canadians," a best-selling profile of Canada and its political, economic and cultural relationship with the United States. 
The son of Canadian parents, Malcolm is also the author of the textbook, "The Land and People of Canada." His other books include "Final Harvest: 

Swan song 
An American Tragedy," "This Far and No More," "Someday," "U.S. 1: America's Original Main Street," and the forthcoming "Huddles: Fathers, Sons, and Football." 
A 1962 graduate of Culver Military Academy in Indiana, he holds bachelor's and master's degrees in journalism from Northwestern University. 
W Harold Welch, an executive of the New York Telephone Co., 
graduated from Notre Dame in 1924. Martha Welch, who holds bachelor's and master's degrees from Columbia University, served for several years as an executive of the New York City public school system. 
Previous Welch professors at Notre Dame include Max Lerner, Garry Wills, James O'Gara, Michael Novak, Barry Lopez and Wilbur Zelinsky. 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

Saint Mary's seniors Camille McAuliffe, Ann Blake, Moira Murphy, Maureen Richerson, Kathleen McNally, Colleen Comley and Eileen Collet (left to right) perform "I Will Survive" with the help of a Karaoke machine during the Senior Send-Off at the JACC Wednesday. 
Fuchs wins science teaching award 
Special to The Observer 
Morton Fuchs, professor and chairman of biological sciences, has been awarded the 1992 Shilts/Leonard Teaching Award for the College of Science, ac­cording to Francis Castellino, dean of the college. 
The award, instituted in 1983 to recognize outstanding teaching, memorializes Father James Shilts, a longtime Notre Dame astronomy and astro­physics professor who died in 1982. The award was endowed by Eugene Leonard, Jr., a sur­geon and 1940 alumnus of the University. 
Fuchs, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1966, is a spe­cialist in the reproductive phys­iology and endocrinology of mosquito reproduction, re­search that has been funded for 
the past 18 years by the Na­tional Institutes of Health. 
He received his bachelor's de­gree in 1960 in microbiology, his master's degree in 1963 in zoology and his doctorate in 1966 in biochemistry, all from Michigan State University. 
Fuchs teaches the first semester of a required Intro­duction to Biology course. This year he began teaching the class for freshmen who intend to major in biology, a class very similar to one he taught for many years for sophomore preprofessional studies majors. 
Fuchs' objective as a teacher, he said, is to teach biology in a way that provides a foundation of facts, enabling students to develop concepts based on these facts, and further develop a problem-solving ability from the concepts. 
"The idea is that you can't understand concepts unless you have a foundation of facts," Fuchs explained. "And the abil­ity to apply comes from a thor­ough understanding of the basic concepts." 
Sorin Co{{ege of the V.niversity of?{ptre 'lJame We Congratu(ate Our yrcufuates: Bill Berry Doug Klostermann Bill Blanford Jeremy Lallgford Andy Cavallari John Lariccia Dave Cloutier Bill Leheny John Cronin Kevin Lennon Matt Cutler John Mangels Bill Dale Devon McDonald Ian Day Mike McGlynn Tony Dill Mike Milano John Evans Terrence Murphy Tim Farish Bill Nichols Kevin Flanigan Chris O'Connell Pete Fleming Andy Pauline Mike Gebicki Steve Petros Tom Gerth Dan Reidy Mike Glastetter Joe Rentz Kevin Harnisch Karl Roemer Doug Heberle Joe Russo Mike Hudson Dave Schindler Jim Joyce Steve Smith Keven Kelleher Mike Sullivan Tom Kinane John Thiede  

RYDER. We're ThereAt EveryTurn:" 


-----~~--------~---------------­
page12 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

Dinner in the North Dome 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students enjoy the pleasures of a meal and each other's company during the Senior Send-Off Picnic 
at the JACC Concourse Wednesday. 
The Observer Friday, May 15, 1992 
Part of Dorr Road to be closed 
Students win Hispanic awards 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame department of Homance languages and lit­erature recently announced the winners of two student awards for promotion of Hispanic cui­turn. 
Laura Brown, a senior from Del Hio, Texas, will receive the Carlos Aballi Award, and Eliza­beth Peterson, a senior from Pelton, Conn., is the winner of the William Hichardson Award, aecording to Isabel Jakab of the Homanee languages and lit­erature department. 
Candidates for both awards were nominated by ND faeulty members who currently teach Spanish at the University, and both winners were chosen by a committee of faculty members, .Jakab said. 
Brown has been active in ND's Hispanic American Orga­nization and the League of United Latin-American Citizens (LULAC). She has also taught religion at St. Stephan's parish in South Bend. 
The Carlos Aballi Award, named for a former director of ND's Language Laboratory, is given to a graduating Hispanic student who has taken Spanish at Notre Dame, has been active in promoting Hispanic cultural awareness at NI> and has helped the llispanic community at ND and/or "in South Bend, .Jakab said. 
Peterson has tutored English to Spanish-speaking second­graders at Madison Elementary School. She also spent a semester in Notre Dame's Mex­ico City program. 
The William Hichardson Award, given in memory of a professor who taught Spanish at Notre Dame for 21 years, is awarded to a graduating African-American student who has shown an unusually strong interest in Hispanic culture through participation in cam­pus and/or community projects or activities, Jakab said. 
Brown and Peterson will re­ceive the awards at a presenta­tion today in Washington llall. 
Trade in Your Cap and Gown at Jordan's Toyota 
JORDAN TOYOTA'S 
.... -' " .._ f _, ... .. 

"I love whatyou do.forme!' 
@TOYOTA 
• Up to 6 quarts of Genuine 'Ibyota motor oil. 
• Inspect brake pads and/or shoes & 
• 
Install Genuine 'Ibyota oil filter. • Lubrication rotors/drums. • Check & adjust parking brake as (when applicable). • Check all fluid levels. needed. • Inspect all hoses, fittings, master 


cylinder & calipers/wheel cylinders. •Add brake fluid, if necessary. • Road test vehicle.
Coupon expires 6/30/92. Good only at JORDAN TOYOTA. Coupon expires 6/30/92. Good only at JORDAN TOYOTA.
$17.00* 

•Turbos, 4x4's and diesels may be slightly higher. 
$20.00 

• Install Genuine Thyota spark plugs. • Check air, fuel & emission filters. • Inspect ignition wires, 
necessary. • Check tire wear and adjust distributor cap & rotor (when applicable}, belts, hoses & PCV valve. 
Coupon expires 6/30/92. Coupon expires 6/30/92. Good only at JORDAN TOYOTA. Good only at JORDAN TOYOTA. 
$39.95* $19.95* 
'Front-wr...,l olr.•:e & 4-wh...,l ~,;._.,
*6-.tj·linder slightly higher. Exd:Jde3 
may be slightly higher.
60,000-mile platinum plugs. 
$20.00 


"Whatever it takes . . we want to be your car and truck company." 
1605 NORTH CEDAR STREET • PO. BOX 370 • MISHAWAKA. INDIANA U.S.A. • (219) 259-1981, SERVICE EXT. 543/544 
_______________..... 
Special to The Observer 
A major section of Dorr Hoad on the Notre Dame campus will be closed permanently on May 18, according to Mike Smith, director of facilities engineer­ing. 
The road from Notre Dame Avenue to just east of the Snite Museum of Art will become part of a pedestrian mall connecting the campus to the new DeBartolo quadrangle. 
University officials cited safety factors leading to the decision to close Dorr Hoad. Pedestrian traffic across the road currently numbers in the thousands daily, and is ex­pected to increase dramatically when the DeBartolo Hall class­room building opens in August, Smith said. 
Angela Boulevard will still provide motorists east-west ac­cess on the south side of the campus, Smith said. 
As part of this project, the bus shelter near the Main Circle will be torn down and replaced by a smaller building at the Main Circle. The construction will also eliminate parking space on the north side of the Notre Dame Post Office, New parking spaces will be constructed 
between the Post Office and the 
Center  for  Continuing  
Education.  
During  this  construction,  

parking for the Post Office will be available in non-reserved spots just south of the office. 
Also as part of the pedestrian mall project, Old Juniper Hoad between the Snite Museum and University Ciub Drive is sched­uled to be closed this summer for repairs. 
Transpo will maintain its regular bus schedule, replacing 

Congratulations, Mark 
The Zoias, The Phalins, The Peters 
. ' 
SEE IJs 

AM• h dar St
''"S owaka . 
' , 
•Includes evac & recharge AC system. • Check 
all AC operation, belts & hoses. • Check for any leaks. 
Coupon expires 6/30/92. Good 'lrJy at JORDAN TOYOTA. 
$39.95 

its usual stop at the Main Circle with a stop just east of Notre Dame Avenue on University Club Drive. 1 
United Limo bus service to Chicago will also remain on schedule, but will move its stop from the Main Circle to the East Gate near Stepan Center. 
The starting point for daily summer tours of the University will be moved from the bus shelter to the north side of the Center for Continuing Educa­tion. 
~----------------------------­

lllt:l UU:St:liVt:ll

Friday, May 15, 1992 page 13 
Saint Mary's announces faculty, student awards 
Lehner, of Kettering, Ohio. 
•Biology 
-the Mother Rose Elizabeth Award, to Carol Grobner, of Flossmoor, Ill.; the George and Juanda Bick Nature Award, to Amy Carlisle, of Roswell, Ga.; the Sister M. 

•
Business administration and economics -the Wall Street Journal Award and Interna­tional Business Award, to Jacqueline Griesbach, of Brown Deer, Wis.; the Frank Yeandel Service Award, to Tara Abbott, of Chicago.; the Academic Achievement Award and Ac­counting Award, to Amy Wolpert, of Hamilton, Ohio; the Finance Award, to Christine Duval, of Bloomington, Minn., and Annemarie Glennon, of Rockford, Ill.; the Management Award, to Amy Gentile, of Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.; and the Marketing Award, to Kathleen Gannon, of Pittsburgh, Pa. 

•Chemistry 
-the Mother Rose Elizabeth Award, to Lynn Amon, of Romeo, Mich.; the American Institute of Chemists Award, to Kimberly Briggman, of Ypsilanti, Mich., and Susan Fox, of Grand Rapids, Mich. 

•Communication, 
dance and theatre -the Excellence in The­atre Award, to Katherine Rosswurm, of Charlotte, N.C.; the Communication Award, to Alysann Sieren, of Davenport, Iowa. 

•Education 
-the Mary Mc­Dermott Award for Excellence 


Rosaleen  Dunleavy  Allied  
Medical  Award,  to  Ranya  
Baramki, Jerusalem.  

Shimp, of Minneapolis, Minn., for fiction. 
•History 
-the Martha Mont­gomery Schurz Memorial Award, to Dorothy Gass, of Delaware, Ohio; the Blecka-Za­tko Essay Award, to Sandra Macklin, of Calumet City, Ill. 

•Humanistic 
studies -the Thomas More Award, to Colleen Conley, of Elmhurst, Ill.; the Humanistic Studies Service Award, to Tracy Hartzler, of South Bend. 

•Mathematics 
-the Milko Jeglic Award for Achievement in Mathematics, to Shannon Hanks, of Watervliet, Mich. 

•Modern 
languages -the French Award, to Jennifer Sul­livan, of Cincinnati. 

•Music 
-the Music Award, to Mimi Brennan, of Mechanics­burg, Pa., and Julie Romary, of Fort Wayne, Ind. 

•Nursing 
-the Evelyn McGui­ness Award for Excellence in Nursing, to Janet Meyers, of Plymouth, Ind., and Christine Pugliese, of Naperville, Ill.;the Humanitarian Award, to Wendy Gronek, of Chicago; the Nightingale Society Honors Membership Award, to Mar­guerite Stechschulte, of Rochester Hills, Mich. 

•Political 
science -the Juliet Noone Lester Award, to Nicole DeMatteis, of Niles, Ohio; the High Achievement Award, to Gina Esposito, of Stow, Ohio. 

•Psychology 
-the Outstanding Scholarship Award, to Mary Elizabeth Tusing, of Leesburg, 



Special to The Observer 
Awards for Saint Mary's College faculty and students were announced at the College's annual honors convocation, Sunday. 
Donald Miller, department of mathematics chair and associ­ate professor, was presented the Spes Unica Award for excel­lence in teaching and dedicated service to the College over an extended period of time. Miller joined the Saint Mary's faculty as an assistant professor in the math department in 1967. Cur­rently, he teaches courses in mathematical analysis and statistics. 
Carolyn Weber, a visiting in­structor in the department of communication. dance and the­atre, received the Maria Pieta Award for excellence in teach­ing freshman-and sophomore level courses. Weber, who joined the faculty at Saint Mary's in 1988, teaches courses in communication and commu­nicative disorders. 
Faculty promotions were also announced. Promoted from as­sociate professor to professor was Claude Renshaw of the de­partment of business adminis­tration and economics. Pro­moted from assistant professor to associate professor were Thomas Platt, department of biology; Loretta Robinson, de­partment of music; Rebecca Stoddart, department of psy­chology; and Julia Storme, de­partment of modern languages. 
Maria Mendoza, a junior from Kyle, Texas, was awarded the Saint Catherine Medal, pre­sented each year to an under­classperson demonstrating high standards of personal ex­cellence, outstanding scholar­

ship and a strong commitment to Christian ideals. Several College-wide awards were presented to students: 
Dorothy Manier Writing Awards for the fall semester went to Catherine Adams,of Louisville, Ky., and Jennifer Shea, of Prudenville, Mich.; for the spring semester, to Jennifer Abbate, of Crystal Lake, Ill., and Diane Lanzillotta, of Northfield, Ill.; honorable mention went to Sohela Nazneen, of Dhaka, Bangladesh. 
Sister M. Franzita Kane Writing Awards were awarded to Deborah Lohman, of St. Louis; Heidi Noble, of South Bend; and Laura Jeffirs, of Plymouth, Ind. The Sister Annice Donovan Prize for Philosophical Writing was awarded to Mary DiFranco, of Dearborn, Mich., and the Helen Carroll Award in Religious 
1":'!~-~~-~--------------------. Studies went to Susan Wyffels,
Dear Chris, 
Congratulation to our "double darner." 
B.A., '89 J.D., '92 

We are proud of you and your accomplishments. Thanks for being 
our son. Love, Mom and Dad 
of Geneseo, Ill. 
The Mary Kelly McLaughlin Saint Mary's Tradition Essay Award went to Moira Murphy,
of South Bend, and the Women's Studies Prize to Teresa Lynch, of Joliet, Ill. 
A number of graduating se­niors received departmental awards. The awards and win­ners, by department, were: 
•Art -the Sister Edna Service Award, to Alicia Higgins, of Downers Grove, Ill.; and the Liquitex Excellence in Art Uni­versity Award, to Margaret 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_._._._._._._._._._._._.ilin Elementary Education, to Ind.; the Outstanding Achieve­

Sheila Gaughan, of Homewood, ment Award, to Jennifer Bre­Ill.; the Sullivan-McGuire Award jcha, of Westchester, Ill., and for Excellence in Secondary Shannon Hilton, of East Lans­Education, to Laura Jeffirs. ing, Mich. 
•Sociology, anthropology and 

•English -the English Prize, social work -the Outstanding to Deborah Lohman and Teresa Scholarship Award, to Anne Lynch; the Laurie A. Lesniewski Marie Finn, of Cincinnati; and Award for Creative Writing, to the Outstanding Achievement Rebecca Pierre, of Green Bay, Award, to Michelle Colburn, of Wis., for poetry, and to Ellen Columbl.fS, Ind. 
Sean-­
"You're the Tops!" 
Congratulations!
Congratulations 
e, 
om, Dad, Diane,
Class of '92 
Chris, and Colin 
OPEN: Great Tastes Begin Here. 
Friday May 15th 11:30 a.m. -2 a.m. 
2041 Cassopolis Elkhart, !N

Saturday May 16th 11:30 a.m. -2 a.m. 
~ 
262-1500

Sunday May 17th 4 p.m. -Midnight 

121 S. Niles South Bend, IN 234-9000
Restaurant
2046 South Bend Ave. Phone: 27-SPORT 




page 14 

The Observer/Pat McHugh 

Fun at the ranch 
Notre Dame senior Jennie Tranel pets a horse at Michigan's Diamond D Ranch during Zombie Stomp Sunday. 
Alumni 
continued from page 7 
the decision. "I haven't had any ealls." 
•Dr. 
Knvin Knarney, president of the Worcester County dub, said he !ward morn concern about Moynihan from relatives in Indiana than in Massaehusetts. 

•John 
Quinn, president of the Erie, Pa. club, said he has 


Happy Birthday 
Amy 

~~~~· 
Rynell 

~,_, :r 
football an· star 
rom Pat, Boe and Sue 

Deliuery & 
Ct~rryout 
Call 232-2499 

XCELLENT VALUE! 
Buy A
I I Large
I 
I For I 
I Medium 
Charge
I 
I Single Phza Orden Ooly 
I Carryout/Delluery 
I 
~May 31, 1992
I I I I I

I Please mendon coupon when orde~ng. One coupon
1per customer per visit at pardclpadng Pizza Hut 
I restaurants or delivery stores. NOT VALlO WITH 
ANY OTHER COUPON. Limited delivery area.
Lii 
heard little response from alumni and some concern from bishops in the area. 
•Jack Frischkorn, president of the Pittsburgh club, said a recent club meeting yielded lit­tle discussion about the deci­sion. 
Kevin McKernan, a 1974 alumni on the board of direc­tors of the Staten Island club and the legal representative for the Ancient Order of Hibernians (AO!f), said he and the Catholic organization oppose Moynihan 
The Observer 

Reaction 
continued from page 8 
McBrien, who has not seen letter sent by O'Connor, said that the bishop failed to criti­cize Bush's endorsement of pro­choice candidates or his decision to go to war against Iraq against the pleas of many American bishops. 
He added that the University cannot apply absolute stan­dards in deciding who to honor. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president-emeritus, agreed. "You must judge a per­son on their whole life, other­wise, we are one-issue Catholics." 
Hesburgh emphasized that 
the Laetare Medal is not the ,. 
• BRING THIS COUPON TO QUALIFY • 
first step toward canonization. ----., 
"We have given it to a lot of 1 people, including Jack 
BUY at INVOICE* I 
Kennedy," he said. I 
I 
College Graduates 

A committee selects the recip-l NO & SMC $500 I ient of the Laetare Medal, ac-1 Students and Faculty Rebate.. I 
cording to Moore. The person must be an American Catholic I 
I

~or reasons other t~an his vot­
mg reco.rd on a~ortwn. I Moymhan failed to support the histor~call~ Irish Catholic I 
group durmg Its recent court 
battle with the Irish Lesbian ltor Details contact: BASNEV FORD I 
Gay Organization over rights to J.AARK HOUSER ~ I HYUnDRI 1 Phone 291-6910 march in the AOH-sponsored ry· . ~ lmli!J 320 EAST IRELAND RnAD I St. Patrick's Day parade in New Sales RepresentatiVe SOUTH BEND. II'L46614 I York, according to MeKernan. I "Rebate to deder; Plus tax. doc.. 1111e and togs. ""Fofd vehicles only. 
I 
• • • • BRING THIS COUPON TO QUALIFY • • • • 

Trythe HotTaste ofPizzaHuf1bnight.
• 

"whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the church and en­riched the heritage of human­ity... 
Moynihan is the first serving 
U.S. senator to receive the honor. Others who have re­ceived the medal since its establishment in 1883 include Civil War General William Rosecrans, Ambassador Claire Booth Luce and Catholic Worker Founder Dorothy Day. 
Moynihan will receive the medal at the University's 147th 
commencement exercises Sun­John Cardinal O'Connor day. 
Subscribe to The Observer 
~ 
~:-~ 
:==___..:2.___ 
, r 1 , ir' 
~ ~ ~~NJ §jii£-os 1 
~::::::t9" .....,.. I 
~ Hyunda1 ~ ~. -. ~ ~ · · ~ f rnu•TAn• -> ~ 
any new FORD or HYUNDAI ..._,,I 
Olne-1 n at 
Downtown 
282-2543 or Roseland 277-2121 
CHOICE DEAL 

I '1\vo Medium 1I I 1-Thpping I I I Pizzas I 
I SI099 I 
I carryout/Delluery II !':!!!'!. May 31, 1991 ~ 
I II @ I 
1Please mention coupon when orderlng. One coupon 1 I per customer per vlsll al participating Pizza Hut I1 restaurants or delivery stores. NOT VALlO WITHI ANY OTHER COUPON. Limited delivery area. I 
..-----------­
Friday, May 15, 1992 
The Observer page 15 
Friday, May 15, 1992 
Diamond named counsel Holy Cross priests celebrate 
Special to The Observer "It is a genuine pleasure that my government has thought to Aubrey Diamond, codirector recognize me with this honor," 
anniversaries of ordination 
of Notre Dame's London Law Diamond said. 
Centre, has been appointed Queen's Counsel, Honoris Causa, by Queen Elizabeth II of England. 
Until last year, solicitors ­British lawyers who handle lower court cases -had been excluded from QC appoint­ments, which were reserved only for barristers. Diamond is only the second solicitor and academic to receive the honorary title. He will be offi­cially appointed in a ceremony May 19 in the House of Lords. 
Diamond's affiliation with Notre Dame began in 1982 as an adjunct professor at the London Law Centre. He was appointed to his present posi­tion in 1987 after 10 years as director of London University's Institute of Advanced Legal Studies. 
He has served on a number of British government advisory bodies and has represented the United Kingdom at European Economic Community and other international meetings. 
Graduations Weekend 
~-
Liturgy Schedule Campus Ministry (?MPUS Notre Dame 
MINISTRY 
UnMnlly of Nolrl Daml 
May 15 -18, 1992 
No1rt Daml. IN 46551 

~c:.-n. 21 ..J»f.UU .... Mil 21 ..211-U•J 
Friday. May 15. 1992; Basilica Liturgical Choir Concert 8:30 p.m. 
Saturday. May 16. 1992; Basilica Vigil Mass 5:00p.m. 
Friday. May 15.1992; 
Sacred Heart  
Parish Crypt  Sunday Masses  6:00, 7:00 & 8:00a.m.  
9:30a.m.  
11:00 a.m.  

No masses will be held in the Basilica on Sunday morning, May 17, because of graduation events. The Church will reopen for prayer and visitation starting Sunday at 12 noon. 
On graduation Weekend, parking for all masses will take place in the parking lots on the outskirts of campus. 
Our 

Special to The Observer 
Seven priests of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross will cele­brate the 50th anniversary of their ordinations with a jubilee Mass of thanksgiving at 4 p.m. today in the Basilica of the Sa­cred Heart of Jesus at Notre Dame. 
Father Chester Soleta, chaplain of the Sisters of Char­ity's St. Elizabeth's Residence in Colorado Springs, Colo., and a member of the 50th anniver­sary class, will preside at the Mass. Father Daniel Jenky, C.S.C., rector of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, will give the homily. 
Celebrating 50 years of priesthood on May 22, in addi­tion to Soleta, are Father Fer­dinand Brown, professor emeritus of mathematics; Fa­ther Richard Kennedy, former pastor of St. Patrick's parish in South Bend; Father Peter Mueller, assistant librarian, Moreau Seminary; Father Michael O'Brien, chaplain, Uni­versity Health Services; Father Herman Reith, professor emeri­tus of philosophy; and Father William Schreiner, of the Holy Cross Mission Band and Holy Cross Mission House. 
All were ordained in Sacred Heart Church, on June 24, 1942, except Kennedy, who was ordained in the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception in Washington, D.C., on May 28, 1942. 
Soleta, a native of South Bend, entered the Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame in· 1928. After his 1942 ordination he earned a doctorate at Yale 
Auto Loans are a Big Deal. 
Sfted<d ili?atel '?(Yt, a-LC#dted 7tHte t'J4! 
8.65% ~PR 
NEW OR USED 
Maximum Term -60 Months 
* Rates subject to change without notice. 
Not eligible for the Golden Shamrock discount. You must qualify for membership in our credit union. 

Good For You 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
(219) 239-6611 
Independent of the University 

University, then taught English at Notre Dame until 1958, as head of the department 1953­58. 
For the next 13 years he served as vice president for academic affairs at Notre Dame. After a sabbatical year of study and nine years at Notre Dame teaching English, he served for the year 1975-76 as assistant at Christ the King parish in South Bend. He was then appointed pastor of Sacred Heart parish, a post he held until1986. 
Following five years (1986-91) as associate pastor at St. Patrick's parish in Colorado Springs, Colo., he was ap­pointed to his present post as chaplain to St. Elizabeth. 
Brown's 50 years of priest­hood have been spent at Notre Dame, where he has served as professor of mathematics, as­sociate vice president of aca­demic affairs, acting and asso­ciate provost, and religious su­perior of Holy Cross priests and brothers connected with the University. He holds both a master's and a doctorate degree in mathematics from Notre Dame. 
Kennedy was a member of the Holy Cross Fathers Mission Band based at Notre Dame from his ordination until 1964, and superior for the last three years. 
From 1964 until 1975 he served as pastor of St. Patrick's parish, then became founder­pastor of Faith Hope Charity Chapel in downtown South Bend. He worked there for thirteen years until his re­tirement in 1988. 
Mueller, a native of Nittel, Germany, has served as assis­tant pastor in parishes admin­istered by the Holy Cross Fa­thers in the Austin, Texas area and in Goodyear, Ariz., as teacher at Holy Cross schools (King's College, Wilkes-Barre, Pa., St. George's College, Santi­ago, Chile, and the University of Portland in Oregon). 
He has also organized and assisted at libraries, in addition to the one at Moreau Seminary, at Holy Cross Novitiate in Cas­cade, Colo., Notre Dame High School in Niles, Ill., and in the seminary of the Archdiocese of Panama, Panama City. 
O'Brien taught for four years after ordination at Our Lady of Holy Cross Seminary, North Easton, Mass. After graduate studies at the University of Minnesota and a year at Moreau Seminary, he was as­signed in 1951 to the University of Portland in Oregon. 
He served as professor of lit­erature and writing, dean of the faculty, director of studies, academic vice president and di­rector of the university's exten­sion program in Salzburg, Aus­tria, until leaving in 1977. 
After three years as associate pastor at Holy Cross parish in Portland, he was appointed as­sociate pastor (1978-81) for Sacred Heart parish. He has served since then in Notre Dame's Health Services. 
Reith, a native of Kokomo, Ind., holds a master's degree in philosophy from Notre Dame and a doctorate in that subject from Laval University in Que­bec. 
He has spent most of his life as a Holy Cross priest teaching at Notre Dame, running its philosophy department there 1953-63, with the exception of two years at the University of Portland in Oregon, three at Makerere University in Uganda, and two at the major seminary in Bangladesh. 
Since 1979 he has taught part-time at Notre Dame while serving at other times in His­panic parishes in Texas, Cali­fornia and in Milford, Indiana. 
Schreiner spent his first two years after ordination as assis­tant pastor at St. Mary's parish in Austin, Texas. Since 1944 he has been a member of the Holy Cross Fathers Mission Band, preaching parish and school missions, retreats for priests, brothers and sisters, missions in military bases in this country and abroad. 
He currently assists in South Bend area parishes, in parishes in his hometown, Cleveland, Ohio, and, during winter months at Holy Cross parish in Vero Beach, Florida. 
It was a tough four years, but you made it through. 

-----------------------·-----·----------·----------------~ 
Viewpoint 
page 16 Friday, May 15,1992 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Edltor..........•...••.•••.. David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes VIewpoint Editor••••••.........•.. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager •.••••Kevin Hardman Sports Editor •.••••••••.•.Michael Scrudato Production Manager .••...•.. Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ••.....•.... Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager........••••.. Patrick Barth Photo Editor........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ••••••..••.....•••••. Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor..Anna Marie Tabor Controller.•....••................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

Sister corrects mistakes concerning Saint Mary's 
The Viewpoint Department welcomes letters, quotes. cartoons and poems from all its readers including alumni, parents, faculty and presidents of countries. 
Send your thoughts in your form of expression to: 
Viewpoint 
P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
DOONESBURY 
I 5Pa<e TO ALeX's ACTUAU.-Y, 5He TCACHfl?. ABOUT Ml5PR£;TJY 6/5N[)f5R BIAS cm.ABa!T 
7DPAY. .. \, 
IT, CON51t?eRIN6. 
"' 

Graduation Verse 
ODE to '92 
It's been four years now, for most of you, 
Since you walked my campus without a clue. 
You've come this far and know what it's all about, 
And I am aware that there are times when you just want out. 
But never forget that great things happened here, 
Friends and activities added excitement to each year. 
The sports, dorms, and clubs -they were so much fun, 
They created spirit and unified you as one. 
I've seen you work and I've seen you play, 
I've seen laughter and tears in each passing day. 
I've watched you lose and I've watched you win, 
I've watched you love and I've watched you sin. 
Over the years it has been quite a show, 
And the most amazing thing was to watch you grow. 
You're not the same as you were when you arrived, 
Since then you've made your inner selves come alive. 
Yet you are only beginning to establish who you are, 
Fully answering your call is still very far. 
I hope everyone has made the most of their stay, 
It'll never be like this again, I hate to say. 
And I know that the food was probably less than great, 
And maybe the homework often kept you up late. 
You might be tired of all the toil and strife, 
But I'm only preparing you for the reality of Life. 
If I was too easy on you, and just let you shoot the breeze, 
You wouldn't stand a chance, you'd be defeated with ease. 
So go forth, and be strong, and use what you have learned, To achieve the success that you have longed for and yearned. As graduation approaches, it brings me a sigh, CLASS of '92, you'll be remembered, but we must say good-bye. Continue to nurture friendships with those you've come to love, And always keep your hearts steadfast to God above. I'm so glad you were able to spend your time with me, Because I will have helped you become what you are to be. 
May you live to learn well, 
and learn to live well ... 
Votre Dame 
By Gretchen D. Ariz Inspired by Amy M. Johnson 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
~ANYON& 
7HINK I 16NOR& 7H&6/R//3? 
.:;:st6H... ~
lWOY¥ 
0 
0

/ 0 
'Education is what prepares you to hear more when you listen, to reach deeper when you think, to 
say more when you speak.' 
James T. Burtchaell C.S.C. 
Send back thoughts from the real world: QUOTES. P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 465.56 
Dear Editor: 
As General Archivist for the Sisters of the Holy Cross, I am happy to read articles dealing with the tradition of education at Saint Mary's College. 
However, because inaccura­cies often appear in print, and are then repeated as if they werH true and a long tradition of mistakes follows. So, I would like to correct four specific re­oceurring errors at the close of this aeademic year. 
• 
First of all, Father Moreau did not accompany the first group of Sisters to Ameriea in 1843. lie made only one visit to North America and that was l 857 -two years after the Sis­ters had moved down from Ber­trand. 

• 
The Sisters did not go im­mediately to Bertrand. They lived and served at Notre Dame. Only after three American girls asked to join them and there was no room at Notre Dame for a novitiate, did Father Sorin looked around for property and found it in the town of Bertrand. In July of 1844 the three girls and their mistress of 


Novices moved to Bertrand. That fall they might have begun to teach a few girls in the dying town. 
• 
I do not see how the Academy in Bertrand could have been a "fulfillment of Moreau's dream for the Sisters to devote themselves to teach­ing in America." Teaching the Indians at Pokagon's third vil­lage, now Silver Creek, might have been part of his mission­ary dream -but not the school in Bertrand. 

• 
The name Saint Mary's of the Immaculate Conception be­came the name of this property in April of 1855, when some small buildings might have been erected on this property ­bought from Mr. Rush. It was given then because the dogma of the Immaculate Conception had been proclaimed by Pope Pius IX on December 8, of 1854 -just four months before the dedication, which was four months before the move here. 


Sister M. Campion Kuhn General Archivist April 24, 1992 

Viewpoint
Friday, May 15, 1992 page 17 
ND should be ashamed of inviting Bush to speak 
Dear Editor: 
The commencement speaker should be someone the gradu­ates can look up to and strive to emulate, Does the University administration really feel George Bush fits this image? I know I don't. 
In Mr. Bush we have a President who has (by following his predecessor's path) increased the distance between the rich and the poor, the haves and the have-nots. He has increased our national debt, and has put us in one of the worst recessions in decades. And he has lied to the people ("read my lips"), are these acceptable criteria for speaking to the graduates? 
He claimed he wanted to be the education President, but apparently his idea of educa­tion means educating the wealthy on how to become wealthier. He has done less than nothing to improve education in our country. The negative impact of Mr. Bush on the economy and federal non-funding of education show the level of interest Mr. Bush has in the education of our youth. 
The count way of the nation's youth, has been put in serious jeopardy by an administration more interested in taking credit for having finally defeated communism than trying to solve any of the worlds problems. 
Mr. Bush's administration has done it's best to destroy as many wetlands as possible, to the benefit of big business, of course. They even makes it sound reasonable, telling us we need a better definition for "wetlands." Their definition seems to be "if business can't find a way to make a profit from it, it's a wetland". 
Global warming and pollution are non-issues for the administration, while the rest of the civilized world works to solve these problems. The administration has neglected our precious natural resources in order to allow big business to reap (rape may be more appropriate) whatever they can while they have the chance. 
I feel the choice of Mr. Bush was driven by a need to have the biggest possible celebrity to impress the media and the wealthier alumni, not by the desire to present a morally decent and respectable individual. The University administration should be ashamed. 
Barry Bauml':laugh Professor of P~ysics April 28, 1992 

Bush is an excellent choice for commencement 
Dear Editor: The fact that our University political viewpoint and neither University. hope that our classmates would 
We are writing in response to has permitted several promi­has it with its choice of a com­Consequently, we would hope feel the same. the opinions expressed on the nent politicians to use Notre mencement speaker. that our fellow classmates For those who do not feel the Viewpoint Page protesting the Dame as a platform for their Some of us did not vote for would show the maturity and same, please show our guest selection of President Bush as speeches, including Republican George Bush in 1988 ad some consideration expected of col­and your fellow graduates the the Sesquicentennial Com­challenger Patrick Buchanan may vote for him this year. Re­lege graduates and refrain from courtesy of refraining from mencement speaker. and Democratic hopeful Jerry gardless, we all recognize the any public demonstrations publicly demonstrating during a 
The University's selection of Brown. man as the leader of our coun­during the commencement very special occasion for all of President Bush is not an en­Furthermore, Notre Dame has try and the guest of our gradu­exercises. us. dorsement for his campaign recognized the achievements of ation ceremony. Such an action would not only Michael Cunningham wand should not be viewed to former Democratic President Therefore, he should be be rude and disrespectful but John Gerosa such. As the President of the Jimmy Carter by honoring him treated as such. We hope that would reflect poorly on the en­Steve Hanson United States, George Bush is with a University award earlier our classmates will put their tire student body. Blair O'Connor an excellent choice as a com­this semester. political viewpoints aside and We are honored to have the Class of 1992 mencement speaker for any Clearly, the University has give President Bush the respect President of the United States April 28, 1992 American college. never espoused a particular deserving of any guest to this speaking at our graduation. We 
Graduate proposes change in academic structure O'Hara extends prayers to
This letter is addressed to all College of Arts and Letters may overcrowded disciplines and audiences interested in the divert many students who wish classrooms, such as in the 
Class of 1992

quality of undergraduate edu­to obtain the "broad liberal arts Grace Chen government department. cation at Notre Dame. education" from otherwise Guest Columnist At least, it could work to en­
Dear Editor: 

This year has witnessed a pursuing interests or careers in courage more students to take 
I would like to take this op­

great deal of activity on the mathematics or science. electives in mathematics, com­portunity to extend my prayerssubject of the quality of under­The division of the two col­puting, and the sciences. These 
and best wishes to thegraduate education at Notre leges encourages the attitude gree from a separate college. last few points cannot be 

members of the Class of 1992. 

Dame. However, of the many that a knowledge of math and Students with only a marginal overemphasized, and should Commencement is a time of
suggestions I have heard on science can be dropped from interest in mathematics and the not be overlooked by those 
many mixed emotions. Pride in how to improve this vital di­the idea of a broad education. sciences, especially, may decide working to improve under­your achievements, excitement

mension of the University, I Probably many undecided it is easier to simply confine graduate education at Notre and apprehension about new
have yet to notice any issue freshman and sophomores, who themselves to the College of Dame. 
beginnings, happiness and sad­

raised on a certain aspect of are tired of the intense Arts & Letters. Finally, a conversion to a ness come together as you pre­
undergraduate education at emphasis on math and science For those students who do College of Arts & Sciences 
pare to leave. 

Notre Dame which has both­which they were subjected to seriously consider a second de­would improve the relations 
For those of you who are

ered me for quite a while, yet I before college, are attracted by gree in a different college, there between the two colleges them­graduating Seniors, I hope thatthink should have been ques­the novelty of liberal arts disci­is the real problem of deciding selves, and the perceptions that we have achieved our goal oftioned long ago-that is, the plines which were never offered whether or not they can afford the students in the majors of providing you with an educa­
continued separation of the in high school. to spend the extra time and re­each college have of each other. 
tion that integrates the life ofCollege of Arts and Letters from The latter consequence is re­sources to obtain that second That is, we could remove the the mind with the life of thethe College of Science. grettable, not only to the stu­degree, for if a student wishes "Arts & Leisure" stigma which heart. May your commitment to 

dent in terms of the economic to obtain degrees from both the has been attached to the Col­
your faith in God and to serviceStated candidly, I am con­opportunity loss, but also to College of Arts and Letters and lege of Arts & Letters, and the of His people match your dedi­cerned that by allowing the ex­society, which loses out from the College of Science, then the narrow, "tech-y" image which is cation to your chosen vocationistence of an independent Col­the loss of mathematical skills student must fulfill the degree often attached to the College of 

and profession. Notre Dame

lege of Arts & Letters and an and scientific knowledge which requirements of both of the Science. 
has high expectations of its

colleges.
independent College of Science, play such an important role in 
graduates. The tremendous

the University diverts many modern economic activity. I do not wish to imply that One of Notre Dame's proudest 
contribution that our alumni

students from pursuing inter­majors in the College of Arts & assets is the quality and caliber 
make to society and to the

Letters are incompatible, un­
ests and developing skills which Secondly, the mere existence of undergraduate students it 
Church is a testament to the

they might have explored were of a College of Science and a necessary, or unimportant for regularly attracts from all parts 
importance of these high

today's world, as is evidenced
it not for the psychological and College of Arts & Letters breeds of the nation. A large expectations.
practical barriers which the an unhealthy "either/or" men­by the large number of students percentage of these students For those of you leaving with separation of the colleges pre­tality among students who have who graduate with a degree graduate in the top one percent graduate and professional de­sents, and unintentionally fos­not yet wholeheartedly commit­from Arts & Letters who go on of their high school graduating grees, I hope that you will carryters a negative message con­ted to one college or the other. to become very successful in all class, or at least in the top ten with you the best of our tradi­
cerning the idea of a "liberal That is, many students, particu­areas of life. percent. 
tions as they relate to your dis­

However, I will go so far as to
arts education" and the role of larly the undecided freshmen 
cipline. If you bring to your

science in it. and sophomores, may be lured say that a liberal arts education With such a capable and tal­chosen field a strong set of eth­Almost everyone agrees that a into the mental trap of thinking which does not foster or ented pool of students, the uni­ical convictions and a commit­basic knowledge of math and that it would be best to "either" encourage an interest in the ar­versity should do all it can to ment to justice, you will repre­science should be an absolute, if major in one college "or" pur­eas of knowledge which are ex­pre'lent the skills in math and 
sent the very best of Notre

not minimal, requirement of sue a different major in the panding most rapidly in today's science which were so carefully Dame.
general education in today's other, even though they may world-namely the sciences­cultivated in K-through-12 from Finally, a note of gratitude to
may constitute as an insufficient
society. However, it is becoming have interests in the majors of­being wasted, and to prevent all of you. You not only take
widely recognized that basic fered by both. educational experience for the message of the importance from here; you also give. Youknowledge may no longer be those of its students who are of math and science in general have made a variety of contri­fundamental enough to prepare This "either/or" mentality is a supposed to be receiving the education from being forgotten, butions to your colleagues, tobroadest education.
students to succeed in today's concern not only among fresh­due to a simple nominal and the institution and to those of
Granted, Notre Dame requires
increasingly technological and men and sophomores who have administrative division of us who remain behind to assistglobally competitive economy. to decide on majors, but among all its students to fulfill science from the liberal arts at students who will follow you. 
all Notre Dame students, be­minimum university require­Notre Dame. 
May Our Lady, Notre Dame,That is why math and science cause again, it fosters the un­ments in math and science continue to watch over you inhave become so heavily empha­healthy attitude that science prior to graduation, and it of­The revision to a single Col­

the years ahead. We are

sized in our nation's schools, and the liberal arts are mutu­fers a few programs to incor­lege of Arts & Sciences would 
blessed to have you as

porate a science and liberal arts
and at least part of the reason ally exclusive areas of knowl­be a major improvement in un­
members of the Notre Dame

education. However, my point is 
why our so-called education edge which have little relation dergraduate education, and Family.
President, George Bush, has or effect on each other. that Notre Dame could do even most importantly, it would help unrealistically marked the year Although a student may real­more to encourage interest in encourage students to develop 
Patricia A. O'Hara

2000 as the year in which our ize that it is possible to do both math and science by combining their potentials in all disciplines 
Vice President for Student 

nation's children will become a science and a liberal arts ma­the two separate colleges into of knowledge. 
Affairs

one. Such a change might also
number one in the world in the jor, the physical requirements 
April27, 1992 

areas of math and science. of each college may discourage especially benefit the College of Grace Chen is an economics 
Arts & Letters by redirecting
I fear that the separation of that student from pursuing a graduate in Notre Dame's Class 
students away from its many
the College of Science fr_,om the second major or a second de-of1992. 
Accent 
page18 Friday, May 17, 1992 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp Notre Dame seniors (1-r) Kateri Kerwin, Jeff Hammes, Cecilia Brown, Kathy Mooney, Andy Pauline, Michelle Cano, Tom Elmer, Lisa Bernstein and Rod Foley discuss their plans to volunteer with Holy Cross Associates. 
Pursuing other avenues 
NO seniors dedicate their services with Holy Cross Associates 
By JULIE WILKENS 
Assistant Accent Editor 


wo roads diverged in a wood And 1-1 took the road less traveled by, and 
that has made all 
the difl'erence." 
-Robert Frost 
Going to law school? Working for Arthur Anderson? Don't know? 
Although many graduating seniors have ehosen some of the more common paths to follow as they leave Notre Dame, a few have decided on a less traveled route. 
"Every year. about 10 percent of the graduating class of Notre Dame choose to enter into service work." said Mary Ann Hoerner, Coordinator of Senior/Alumni programs at the Center for Social Concerns (CSC). 
The CSC has been successful with many of their programs, including a serviee program called Holy Cross Associates. 
Holy Cross Associates, a post­graduate program, began in 1978 as a way· to integrate young adults into service for the poor while developing a deeper sense of themselves. 
"Holy Cross Associates seemed to be a program that integrated not only social work, but the importance of community living, the importance of prayer life, and the importance of living a simple life style," explained Jeff Hammes, a finance major from South Bend who has chosen to waylay his career for one year to serve the poor instead. 
Hammes will be working on the domestic program at one of five possible sites: Phoenix, Arizona; Oakland. California; Colorado Springs, Colorado; Brockton, Massachusetts; and Portland, Oregon. 
"I chose the domestic program 
because I can relate much more," said Hammes. "When I am older and become some sort of leader in the community, it's important to know the problems in your own backyard. Anybody who thinks we don't have these problems can just look at last week's race riots." 
Holy Cross Associates is not limited to domestic service, however. They are also involved in an extensive service program in Chile. Bridget Spann, a graduate of French and the Program of Liberal Studies, will be spending_ the next two years submersed in the Latin American country. 
''I'm not yet sure what I'll be doing. Possibly ministry in parishes and schools. There's .also orphanages, human rights, and pregnant teens. I guess I'll be a 'jack of all trades'," she said. 
"As to why I chose the Chile program, that's difficult to answer," she continued. 
"Just thinking 'I hope to gain in personal afterwards." about my four growth, Spiritual development, "At first 
years of h ff my family
education, it t rough exposure to di erent didn't un­would be a great people, and the opportunity to derstand my opportunity to be open my mind.' decision," 
immersed in s a i d another culture. -Bridget Spann Hammes. Everyone con------------------" T h e 
tributes to another person's ex­perience." 
But what would call students to leave their family and the comforts they are used to, especially when they have just completed four years of work towards entering into the "real world?" 
"I always knew I wanted to be involved in some sort of service work," said Hammes. "I initially got involved in service work at my high school and was involved in an Appalachian service project after my senior year. Notre Dame just continued everything. It does a great job of catering to that side of people with a great service program." 
Hammes anticipates a possible problem readjusting once he returns from his year of service. "I know there exists an overall greediness and an especially huge problem of morality in the financial field," he said. "But this should strengthen me and allow growth so that I'm not sub­ject to the financial pressures. I believe you can still be in business and make money in a very Christian way within the bounds of morality." 
There exist other obstacles that the associates must overcome. Many students' families are hardly exuberant over their children's decision. "Parents like to hear about what happens after the period of service is complete," said Roemer. "They think their kids are stuck in a time warp of the 60's, but they always go on to jobs and graduate 
s c h o o Is 
y thought that I'd give up on it, but now they are very supportive." 
Spann has a different story. "Actually, my family is very excited. But my family is so involved in service projects, with my brother in the Peace Corps and my sister teaching in Mexico. I think they would of been surprised if I had done otherwise." 
Many people agree that because it is a Catholic institution, Notre Dame encourages and supports student volunteers more than other schools. 
"At any other school, I'd get weird looks," explained Hammes. "But here everyone seems to know someone who's going on to do a year of service work. Notre Dame naturally attracts very caring people and nurtures any interest very well. There is so much opportunity, that someone with just a little interest can have it brought out by the work of the esc and the fact that so many of their friends will be doing the same." 
Although leaving college and the security one has found there can be traumatic for anyone, Hammes and Spann possess legitimate fears that are different than those of students pursuing other avenues. 
"It's going to be difficult to be separated from my family for two years," said Spann. "What also scares me is how to fit back in the United States when I return and try to get back into the mainstream." 
Hammes also added, "There is a fear in learning some of the realities in being homeless, or having AIDS. I'll definitely realize just how lucky I am." 
The Holy Cross Associates program accepts associates through an in­depth application and interview process. Once accepted, associates will be expected to agree to some financial responsibilities. Although they will be given a monthly stipend, it is meager but livable, in line with the associate's decision to live in accordance with the simple lifestyle of the poor. But such an experience is priceless, according to associates. 
"I hope to gain in personal growth, spiritual development, through exposure to different people, and the opportunity to open my mind," said Spann. 
"It's important to affirm these decisions. There exists a fidelity to incorporating service into lives and careers." said Roemer. 
J 

·--------------·--~--------------------------~-------~------~--~---------~------_,--------.. 
...

Accent
Friday, May 15, 1992 page 19 
ADomer diary 
Memories from aseniorls perspective 
By JOHN O'BRIEN that just because I was the smartest Accent Writer kid in high school meant that I could handle an Electrical Engineering/Pre­
A 
ug. 26, 1988-Here I am in Med double major. I was wrong, so my dorm room, my first day American Studies here I come. at Notre Dame. Everything May 5, 1989--Sorry it's been so long, here is pretty cool, except but I've been busy. Not only have they messed up and put me in a broom studying and partying been taking up closet instead of a dorm room. There's my time, but I've fallen in love. Bambi only enough room for two beds, two is also a freshman and she lives in wardrobes, and two desks. Breen-Phillips. The only problem is 
I'm a little worried about my that she doesn't know my name...or roommate Otto. He said he would who I am ... or the fact that I'm in love bring his Iron Maiden tape collection, with her. two cases of Schafer and a sweaty tank Aug. 28, 1989--Sophomore year is top from phys. ed. class. It doesn't here and Otto isn't. He's decided to 
sound so good. drop out of school and follow the Dead. 
Sept. 24, 1988-I had my first hook­Instead, some guy named Pat Sullivan up last night. I don't remember much moved in. Every single one of his male about it, especially any details about ancestors from as far back as 1842 has the girl. Somehow I remember her gone to Notre Dame. All of his female saying she went to "St. Joe's." I think ancestors went to either Saint Mary's that's some college across the street. or Notre Dame. I wonder why he I'll have to check on that. couldn't find a roommate. 
Oct. 14, 1988-It's the night before fall break, and I can't wait to get Sept.l0, 1989--I found out. Today. 
Commons and then passed out on the immaturely, so I'm going to spend the home. I sold my ticket to tomorrow's Pat celebrated his 5,000,000th playing corner of Corby St. and Notre Dame next three months running naked game for $15, so I'm leaving early. I of the Victory March. Every ounce of 
Ave. We left him there. Heck, how across South Quad singing Lionel 
figure, what the heck, how good is clothing, paper and furniture that he dangerous could that be? It's only just Ritchie ballads. Party time, dude. 
Miami anyway? owns has a big interlocking ND on it. 
off-campus. March 16, 1992-My parents called Oct. 16, 1988-Remember for next In his closet are 10 blue sport coats, 10 
Feb. 5, 1991--1 got into the today. They said if I have to go to 
year: Don't sell your damn football pairs of khaki pants and 100 Linebacker for the first time last night. Student Affairs one more time that 
tickets. ties--most of them red, but some with At first, the cop didn't believe I was a they'll make me go into counseling. I Dec. 5, 1988-1 went to my first SYR little green shamrocks. I think I'm 
36-year-old exchange student from guess stealing that nun's outfit and last night. Things were going well until going to hurl. 
Belize, but I was able to sneak in when screaming obscene Ice-T raps duringOtto and my date, Susie, got into a N o~ 18, 1989--Patjust spent some guy dancing with a beer on his Vespers was what crossed that line for belch contest and ended up going on a $7,000 at the Hammes 
head ran into the cop. them. Still, tomorrow is St. Patty's Day.
walk around the lakes. Notre Dame Bookstore (on Aug. 20, 1991--Today I moved into March 17, 1992-Entry unreadable. 
Jan. 20, 1989-A lot has happened the campus). He had lost my first apartment. Life off-campus May 18, 1992-Well, it's all over. Too since last time. First, we won the all of his clothing when St. Michael's will certainly teach me how to live bad I have to spend my last day at ND National Championship, so I've spent Laundry burned down the other day independently, gain responsibility and in the St. Joseph County Jail. It all the last three days in the Hammes (apparently, true blue Domers do not learn the true value of money--at least started when I snuck a champagne
Notre Dame Bookstore (on the do their own laundry--at least the 
that's what my parents think. bottle into the JACC. 
campus) buying National male ones). So he went on a spending Personally I'm hoping for lots of keg I was just about ready to fire that Championship Toilet Seat Covers. frenzy. I think I am going to kill him. 
beer and plenty of babes to shack up baby up when two Secret Service Second, I broke up with Jennie. Out Sept. 17, 1990--My first friend, Bob, with. Then again, considering my luck dudes tackled me and dragged me of 25 freshmen in my section, 24 broke turned 21 last night. In the tradition of 
with women, I'll probably just con­away. My parents are kinda mad, but I up with their HTHs over Christmas, so all good friends, we took him out and centrate on the beer. just hope the police don't find all of 
I'm not alone. poured so many intoxicating poisons Feb. 1, 1992-l'm going to party. I those Jodi Foster pictures hanging upFinally, I changed majors. I thought into his body that he got sick in the only have one more semester to act in my apartment. 
Going home to God by way of the Grotto 
Fred, a Protestant lad He asked, "Do you pray to 
ni Houlihan, she enshrined graduating next year, was Mary?" As an answer, I showed herself in the hearts of the Irish, saying goodbye after finals. him the rosary in my pocket. He Father Robert Griffin and the legend of her visit to 
"Do you remember the Dooley shrugged; obviously the cheap the holy isle honors her more letter at the Grotto?" beads meant nothing to him. than the glitzy altars in greedy
Letters to c Lonely God
"Of course," I murmured. "My "Doesn't it feel wrong to pray to churches which show her memory of the letter is imper­a creature?" he wondered. enthroned as a queen. fect. Every couple of years, Learning to pray to Mary, I I had hoped to put Fred on a when I re-read it, I find things explained, is like acquiring a pretentiousness, like the child taste," I told Fred,"to imagine wave-length with Mary so that 
Bernadette whom the Mother of her as a great goddess, though 
there that surprise me." special language skill. At first, he could understand Tom 
God chose to visit. The alleged who could object to the
"I wonder," he said, "if I were when you try to think about Dooley, preparing to meet God. 
Marian apparitions since Cathedral of Chartres being
in Tom Dooley's place-! mean, Mary, she's just an idea you I should have told Fred about 
Bernadette's day tend to built as her doll house? She is
if I were sick with cancer, and have in your head. Father Joe Muckenthaler, a 
dying even-would I wish to see You use the beads to remind become a tangled web. The all things to all people in every Holy Cross now in
priest ­
the Grotto one last time?'' you of the ways in which God visionaries present us with a century, just as her Son is. heaven. As a young priest, I weighty agenda of what the "Do you remember what lived with Father Joe in Dillon
I was stirred by some faint invited the Mother of Jesus to 
recollection of Dooley's be His faithful maidservant. Out world must do to save its soul. Bonhoeffer wrote of Him? in the year that he died. 'Jesus is there only for others.. He came back from breakfast
reference to priests wearing of your reflection comes an 
overcoats that looked like hand­understanding of her a "I knew I couldn't believe in .God in human form! not. . .in morning to prepare the
as one me-downs because they were woman closer to God than any Medjugorje when the children the Greek divine-human form of German class that he taught. 
oversized. of us will ever be. described Our Lady a:s though man in himself, but the man for A short time later, the maid Eventually, you become aware she were dressed to make an others, and therefore the found him lying dead on his bed 
The Grotto in winter with of her as a living presence appearance on a holy card. crucified.' with a rosary in his hand. How snow on the ground is not a whom you talk to as an absent Bernadette said simply, 'She "As His mother, we take her lovely for him, I have always 
was dressed in light.' measure from Him. In the cen­thought. He could have beenmemory I would expect to have friend. 
in my mind when I am heading I said, "It's like discovering "To the end of her life, tury of the Holocausts, she is clutching a cigarette.Bernadette would weep when Rachel weeping for her
for the last roundup. The Grotto the nearness and dearness of a 
that I'm homesick for when I'm sister who died early, before she saw scenes in nature that children. The icons she would Maybe Father Joe and Dr. away is a summer place. you were born. One day, out of reminded her of the place want from us, I think, must be Dooley had this in common: an 
where Our Lady had appeared as simple and plain as the face awareness of the Grotto was
"Do you ever go there to the blue, she catches up with pray?" I asked. you as y·our special saint; to her; but she had no wish to of truth." part of their death and dying. 
see the great shrine built in She appeared once on a
"Pray to Mary? Why should I? running interference for you, Did both of them go home to Why is she important to offering your prayers with you honor of Our Lady of country road in Donegal as a God by way of the Grotto? It 
Catholics?" As an heir of the to God, adding her own special Lourdes-unless, she said, she beautiful colleen with bare feet, wouldn't surprise me. could go there as a small bird carrying a child.
Reformation, was he feeling en­sweetness to them, which must 
dangered? make them endearing to Him." that the crowd wouldn't notice. When she was asked, "Who And years from now, Fred "Oh," I said, smiling, "She Fred and I talked of Tom But she didn't want to see how are you?" she gave a plain may be surprised to find that ­comes with the territory," Dooley's love for the Grotto. the experts had complicated answer," I am the Mother of thoughts of the Grotto are still 
meaning the Dome, the Lady "What does it mean to you?" he something that she God, and this is Himself, and green in his memory, reminding chapel, and all the graven asked. remembered as simple and He's the one you'll all be him of the Mother of God show­images on campus honoring the "I love the Grotto," I said, lovely." wanting at the end." ing us Himself as the one we'll 
Mother of God. "because it's free of "It's an aberration of good As the daughter of Cathleen all be wanting in the end. 
L__________________________________________________ -----­
-----~---~~-­

page 20 The Observer Friday, May 15, 1992 
... The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 Lafortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
ONE WEEK TIME SHARE.  HEY YOU!  Are You From Northern Idaho  Sheri SMC '92­ to the athletic dept.:  
NOTICES  RENT $700 USA, $800 OTHER. 60-90 DAYS NOTICE  We have all the furniture and apartment stuff you could possibly  or Washington State? A luggage truck will be running from  Congrats and Good Luck! Sorry I have to miss your party. Please  your time is gonna come -led zeppelin  
USE BY AUGUST 8  want. The latest in car interior  N.D. to Spokane and Seattle after  keep in touch.  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  616-435-5805.  couches and Oriental settings. We're looking to unload this  graduation. Limited space is still available! Call Lisa X3153 of  Love, Anne SMC '94  to the star chamber under the dome:  
HOUSE FOR RENT  merchandise so price is negotiable.  Theresa X2935 ASAP for  HAPPY 21 BIRTHDAY TO MONICA  !yin', cheating', hurtin', that's all you  
$$FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-Sat  $150/mo. Call Paul287-2159.  We're at Castle Point so if you're  reservations.  YANT!II Try to stay out of the police  seem to do  
Pandora's Books corner ol ND ave & Howard  WANTED: 3 FEMALE STUDENTS  thinking of moving there look us up. Call HENRY or THUY @ 272-9326  1024-1025-1026  reports now that you're legal. I hope you have a great b-day-maybe  -led zeppelin  
reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday  FOR LG. HOME. $200/MO. PER  anytime and leave a message if  FLANNER TOWER (1989-92)  you'll get lucky and hook up with a  HOW WOULD I DESCRIBE FOUR  
Attention Washingtonians!  ROOM. LOTS OF AMENITIES. YOU STUDY WHILE I TRAVEL &  we're not in. CALL US!  The end of an era... A University computer made us  student body president type!! -KJT  YEARS UNDER THE MALLOY ADMINISTRATION?  
A luggage truck will be running from  ENJOY THE UTOPIAN LIFE. CALL  roommates.  "DRIVES ME INSANE, TROUBLE'S  
N.D. to Spokane and Seattle after  FOR APPT. PAUL 232-2794.  88 Mazda 323, 4spd, AC, EC, 22K  Good times and bad times made us  To all my friends at the Big 0:  GONNA COME TO YOU"-LED  
graduation.  mi! Hundreds below blue book! Jim  friends.  Last year's GB, and this year's-1'11  ZEPPELIN  
Limited space is still available! Call  HEY, all you party animals, the  W239-6064/H273-9059  May we stay that way forever.  miss you all a lot. Good luck Mony,  
Lisa X3153 or Theresa X2935  FRAT HOUSE is available for the  Paul.  Dave, Jahnelle, Rock, etc. Thanks  ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS  
ASAP to make reservations.  year 92-93. Make it the best year of  P.S. Feel free to stop by and sit in  for years of friendship Lisa and all  A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS  
your life. Call 272-5509.  1 hideaway couch-$75  the "Air Flanner" seats anytime.  the other seniors. Shirley, thanks  A BABY! Young financially secure  
WANTED  S U M M E R I N S. B . ? sublet the newest, largest,  1 col. table-$5 1 cushion chair-$! 0 277-4491  D I  for listening; I'll miss you so much. And, of course, O'B-these years at The 0 wouldn't have been the same  Catholic couple looking to adopt and provide a loving home to an infant. All Expenses paid. Please  
t-1/2 bath, most energy  S  BRING YOUR FAMILY!·  without you. Thanks for being my  call collect (317) 364-0300 for more  
efficient 2-bed appart. @  Baseball Cards For Sale  S  BRING YOUR FRIENDS!  bestest friend and for helping me  information.  
- ALL NEW IN '921  Turtle Creek-for the same price of the other 2-bd. appt.  Complete Sets 1964-90  F U  TO THE BOOTIE MOVIN' COMMENCEMENT BLOWOUT  take life a little less seriously. II was never boring ... Love you all, TUTS  I am a worm, slowly and surely  
Distribute bumper stickers and T­ X2447  Call: 283-3576  N  ATCLUB23  sinking deeper into the bowels of  
shirts. Help America and your wallet. Call 1-800-584-0757 nights or  CLEARLY THE BEST CHOICE Near N.D. quaint,clean  STUDENTS & PARENTS!  K T I  SAT, MAY 16th  MAT. Best of luck with the Trojans! JMA & Glenna  the earth, putting more desolation between me and the universe  
weekends.  furnished apts. Studio-$230  Save most of those housing costs - 0  
1 Bedroom-$260, deposit,  buy an Oakhill Condo! Get a break  N  Mrs.O'B:  Pete, Lauren, Dannika and Colleen  
WANTED: Female roommate to  references t-800-582-9320  on your taxes & a return on your  After today you'll probably stop  {and anyone else to whom this  
help with off-campus rent for summer school, June 22-August 8.  Avail. Summer/Fall.  investment. Call Janet Knapp @ Re/Max tOO Really, 219/235-3489  I NEED GRADUATION TICKETS II  reading Observer classifieds forever-they won't be exciting now  pertains): Thank you for your hard work and  
If interested call  705 N.D. Ave. 3 bedroom available  or 277-7402.  CALL GREG@ 289-5311  that John & I are gone. So here's  dedication to this rag.  
Xt502  for summer sublet. fall semester.  one last one just for you. Enjoy the  Congratulations on surviving this  
BE ON T.V. many needed for  $475.00 Call234-8200.  TICKETS  AVOIDING Pres. Bush?  weekend. Thanks for everything over the past years.  ordeal known 'higher education,' and get ready for {gasp) THE REAL  
commercials. Now hiring all ages.  FACULTY or GRAD-STUDENT to  Teresa x2899 will haggle for  Love you, Kelley  WORLD!I  
for casting info. Call  share lg. home close to campus'.  PLEASE! Desparately need 1 grad  GRADTIX  Love,  
(615) 779-7111 Ext. T· 1678  Private room.  tick. for my Grandma-277-4491.  Mom and Dad McCloskey,  The News dept.  
Deposit-Lease-References. Call  Ellen-What can I say? We've been  Thanks for making this all  P.S. Get those plaid pants ready!  
MOVING TO SAN FRANCISCO???  277-4156.  **I NEED GRADUATION TIXIW*  friends for a long time and I wouldn't  possible. I couldn't have made it  
I AM LOOKING FOR SOMEONE  ****Michael @233-3263****  trade it for the world. Thanks for  without your support. I love you  DR. STAT-DR. LOVE-SQUIRE R.  
TO SHARE AN APT. WITH IN THE  CHICAGO-BOUND IN MAY?  everything-you're the best.  both.  I FEAR THAT AN INFILTRATOR IS  
BAY AREA.  YOUNG PROFESSL. FEMALE (28)  Need Graduation Tickets. Call  Congratulations and good  Your son,  IN OUR MIDST. SOME ENTITY  
TOM X1762  SEEKING M/F PROFESSL IN  Laura X4980  luck-you better keep in touch!  Andrew  CONTINUES TO ASSERT THAT  
MID/LATE 20s TO SHARE  Love,Jahnelle  HE IS DR. REDUCTIO AD ABSUR­ 
SUMMER JOBS AVAILABLE IN  LINCOLN PARK APT.  DE$PERATE for  Dearest Carmelita,  DUM.  HE WILL BE ELIMINATED  
YOUR HOME TOWN I Works Corps  BIG, BEAUT., 2B, HDWD FLOORS,  THREE (3) GRAD TIX  Herbie-Thanks for everything.  Over the past four years you  BY THE KUNG FU MASTERY OF  
is looking for hard working and  GREAT LOC. (DIV/HALST), CAT.  Call Teresa x2899 to haggle  You've been a great friend and I  have always been there for me. No  DR .. INKSTER. UNITE AND KILL!I!I  
motivated students to manage their  5/92-5/1/93. $450 MO.+ 1/2 UTIL.  really appreciate it. Congratulations  matter what the circumstances you  
own summer business. Earn up to  (HEAT INCL.)  My little brother Brady needs a  and good luck-1 know you'll be  were I always knew that you would  
$10, 000. For more information,  CALL (312) 528-1389 ASAP.  Graduation Ticket. He's rich  great at whatever you do. Try not to  be willing to sleep with me. I will  Graduating Observerites: Thanks  
please call 1-800-238-3254.  because he hasn't gone to college  blush so much...  forever miss your warm embrace.  for the good times, apologies for the  
SIX EFFICIENCY APTS. IN BLDG.  yet.  He will pay top dollar! Call273­ Love, Jahnelle  Now its time for us to depart.  Take  bad times, and hope that all will  
SMC '91 Grad seeks 1-2  NEAR N.D. WILL RENT  9316 if you have extra Grad lix!  good care of your new family, for  provide (at the least) interesting  
roommates Sept. -Chicago. Call  INDIVIDUALLY OR 30R MORE AT  Dear Amy,  they surely will discover your inner  memories for a lifetime. We will  
Lisa eve.  A DISCOUNTED RATE  Help! I need 1 or 2 grad. tix.  You made ill The past three  warmth.  Goodbye, I'll miss you.  miss you all.  
1-708-848-9013.  CALL2879624  Please call me! Will pay$$$!  years have been the greatest and I  Love always,  Best of luck in '1he real world."  
Jim->271-8738  will truly miss  Andrew  Observer staff 1992-93.  
WANTED: Mac SE 30 or LC  "Our Old House"  you. Best of everything in all  
If you don't want your SE30 or LC, I  Michigan Bed and Breakfast. 35  FOR SALE: chp. 1 way tick. SB  you do! Let me know when you  Class of '92:  
doll Call me -Leave a message for  Mins. from Campus. (616)  to Los Angeles. Monday, 5/18.  celebrate your first Mass,  Welcome to Notre Dame Mom,  -Hey, it's been a pleasure  
Mary on machine if I'm not home:  435-5365.  Jim x1558.  OK?I Congratulations!  Mike, Rob, John, Grandpa,  knowing and working with all  
273-1709 or my folks number 232­8168.  Attention bisexual women  2 Grad tix needed big $  Rose and Family  Grandma, Aunt Martha, Aunt Barbara, Uncle Larry, Mary, Katie,  of you this year. Good Luck out there in the "Real World" I  
{and other interested parties):  call Bob at 277-8491 thanx  Emily, Nick, and Ted! Thanks for  -Katie "Kareer"  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month.  Turtle Creek sublet available. Call Rian@ X1209 for details.  HELP!I! I need one grad. tix  Dear Christi, Congratulations! We wish  everything. Goodbye to everyone Love, AmyL  Placement Basement  
Free transportation! Room & Board!  Please call pat@ 271-0835  you the best in all you do ! Take  
Over 8,000 openings. No  Kicked off campus? Sexually  money no object!  good care of yourself and continue  To the seniors of the Liturgical  
experience necessary. Male or  harrassed by your roommate for the  to spread that  T.N., CHIEF, COOL BREEZE, J.D.3  Choir--Congratulations!! II We wish  
Female. For employment program call Student Employment Services  1992-93 school year? Three (adjective) guys are looking for a  PERSONAL  sunshine wherever you go! Rose and Family  AND COMPANY -NO MORE JERKY BEEF or WINKY DINKY  all of you the best of luck alter graduation! We will miss all of you-­ 
at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597.  Turtle Creek roommate. Call Chris  DOGS, YOU JERKIES. WE'VE  choir just won't be the same!!!  
@ Xt088 if you need us as much as  SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $251  She said STOP I NO! and DON'T!  GOT A $100 BOUNTY ON THE  Happy Graduation IIIII  
SALES PERSON WANTED FOR  we need you. We've been Philledl  each way on discounted scheduled  but I made her stay for the week  HEAD OF THE CHIEF PUNK ON  --the rest of us in the  
FOOD VENDING CART ON THE  airlines to Europe from CHICAGO.  anyway ...  THAT NAUGH HALL STAFF. SCUM  Liturgical Choir  
WEEKENDS. LOCATION WILL BE  FURNISHED ROOM, KITCHEN,  Call (800) 325-2026.  SCUM SCUM, GO BACK TO  
ON THE EAST RACE. GREAT  AIR, PRIVATE ENTRANCE, 5 MIN.  Monchichi, Monchichi. Oh so soft  WHERE YOU'RE FROM.  DOUG WEBB--Congratulations on  
SUMMER INCOME. MUST BE  N. CAMPUS. 272-0615.  and cuddly.  this fine occasion of your  
OUTGOING. CALL RICK AT 288­ Help Me, Please  hey nil  graduation!! II Best of luck in grad  
1454, WEEKDAYS. 273-0900  Room to rent over summer in Turtle  I need graduation tickets if anyone  school (Don't study too hard--ha,  
NIGHTS AND WEEKENDS.  Creek. Share with MBA student.Apt. fully furnished, will need a bed.  has some they are not going to use. Call Quinn at x2059 if you have any  To all my favorite Siegfried and "OC" babes-Liza, Carla, Jill, Julie,  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  hall) and have a great life!! I --Cheryl  
$240 pm. Ph. 273 2302 ask for  into.  Monica, Sara, Katie, Betsy, Nora,  Info on semester, year, graduate,  
- I need your REFRIGERATOR. Call Geoff. 289 2823 II FOR SALE FOR RENT L-----------' INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  please, help me WANTED: A rational explanation for the termination of the NO wrestling program. Must be logical, coherent, TRUE and must not make the  Libby, etc. Thanks for four great years of friendship and fun. I'll miss you all so much. -Tuts  summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. The Lizard King lives onf Down with  NICK CAMPANELLA--I've missed seeing you at lunch the past few days!! Congratulations and best of luck IIIII --Cheryl  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Good rates. Save Money. Call me  university look like a bunch of  To my wonderful family- the Crustaceans!  Seniors--you've always meant so  
219-291-7153.  for a quote 9:30-6:00,  money-hungry idiots. If you can help  Thanks for making the trip out here  much to me. I'll never forget you!  
289-1993. Office near campus.  us out, call Athletic Czar DICK  to see me graduate. I love you all so  --Jason  
Rosenthal at his toll-free number 1­ much. Thanks mom and dad for  Kelley, Monish, Little Saras, Jills,  
RESERVE YOUR 2, 4, or 5  airline ticket from SB to NWK  800-GET-CLUE.  enabling me to come to NDI Get  and Big C:  
Bedroom House for 92-93 NOWI  (0/W) on 5/18 (Male). Call288­ P.S. What team is next on the list?  psyched to have all four kids at  It's January 23rd and I'm writing  Mom, dad, lia Chela, Veronica,  
Safe Area, Private Parking  9806.  home next month.  this now so I won't  (oversleep  Armando, Dolores, Daniel,  
Lot, Volleyball & Basketball Court,  Love, Kelley  and) forget!  Rosalinda, I love ya'll.  
Semi-Furnished. Call 234-1886  78 Volkswagen Van Outstanding  UPS  UPS  UPS UPS  P.S. Trace, get pysched for the long  I will miss you all incredibly ..... but  Thanks f?r everything.  
California Condition.  120/K.  It's Here, it's convenient and  ride home-1'11 have so much to talk  never fear, I will call often and play  
Automatic, White. $1,750. 616­ it's in LaFortune!  UPS service  to you about.  country music over the phone for  
ATIAACTIVE STUDIO'S IN  684-7203.  today, tomorrow and next MTW at  you.  To mom and dad (Fbres),  
LOVELY OLD VICTORIAN BLDG.  The Country Harvester.  Mike Caldwell-"You are such an  Love,  I love you. Alice  
NEAR N.D. 225-300/MO. CALL  For sale: Racing Bike with many  239-6714  idiot!?I" But we'll miss you anyway,  Lisa  
2879634 FOR SUMMER AND FALL  accessories. Total retail $1100.  lower level  LaFortune  especially Jackie. Good Luck in DC.  (my friends call me LIZA!I/1)  
RENTALS.  Asking $350 or best offer. X3718  GOOD LUCK AMY & CHRISTl!!  Love,  Jackie & Anne  Alice, Rob, Cris, Pack-man.  :)  
.,.  You are cordially invited to a ... Commencement Concert  Class of 1992-­The Observer congratulates you on your  

accomplishments and wishes you the best of luck in 
presented by the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir 
-
your future endeavors!!! 
Friday, May 15, 1992 CONGRATULATIONS
8:30p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart CONGRATULATIONS CONGRATULATIONS 

Midwestern Collegiate Conference 
992 NOTRE DAME SEN~ 
QJ-
All-Conference Softball Teams Notre Dame First 
&
A.RSITY ATHLETES' SAL 
Second Team Players 
Greg Davis Melissa Linn 
BASEBALL Justin Hall MEN'S SWIMMING
Joe Binkiewicz 
Fr. Sara Hayes OF 

Mirko Jurkovic Jim Birmingham 
Craig Counsell Lindsay Knapp Jim Boutrous 
Cory Mee Bernard Mannelly Karl Peterson 
Mike Rooney Devon McDonald Roger Rand 
MEN'S BASKETBALL Gene McGuire Joe Rentz 
Elmer Bennett Ryan Mihalko Chuck Smith 
LaPhonso Ellis George Poorman WOMEN'S SWIMMING
Daimon Sweet Keith Tower 

Peter Rausch Jackie Jones Troy Ridgley Kathleen McKinney 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Martin Scruggs Cynthia Safford 
Deb Fitzgerald Jim Sexton Shana Stephens 
Comalita Haysbert Rod Smith Heather Winiecki

Margaret Nowlin Tony Smith Becky Wood 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY MEN'S GOLF MEN'S TENNIS
Bill Dauphinais l'v1ike Cristani David DiLucia 
Mike Drake Mike O'Connell John Ehrling 
Paul Finger Kevin Regan WOMEN'S TENNIS
Pat Kearns WOMEN'S GOLF Tracy Barton 
Kevin Keegan Allison Wojnas Katie Clark 
Brain Peppard HOCKEY Kristy Doran 
Kevin Whelan Pat Arendt MEN'S TRACK
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY David Bankoske Ryan Mihalko 
Amy Blaising Robert Copeland Neil Mulrooney 
Diana Bradley ­Michael Curry Brian Peppard
MEN'S FENCING Kevin Patrick Shawn Schneider
Chris Baguer Scott Vickrnan Rod Amith 
Ed Baguer Lou Zadra Greg Soroka 
David Calderhead LACROSSE WOMEN'S TRACK
Henry Chou Doug Murray Diana Bradley 
Thomas Clare Scott Musa VOLLEYBALL
Craig Conner Chris Nelson Jennie Bruening 
David Kirby Brtan Schrif Chris Coutte
Ed LeFevre Mike Sullivan Katie Kavanaugh
David Letscher MEN'S SOCCER WRESTLING Bobby Allong Frank Agostino Peter Gulli Pete Cahill Brett Hoffmann Curt Engler Kenyon Meyer Marcus Gowens WOMEN'S SOCCER Jack Pirris 
Sinnes P 
Team
Molly Lennon 
Jamie Reidy 
w 

. Chris Mic Jr. Pat Leah 1st Team 2nd Te 
SOFTBALL Torn Salvino 
Amy Folsom Todd Tomazic ' Ruth Kmak Chuck Weaver 
The Observer/John Rock 


MCC 
y, Notre Dame 

Newcomer-of­the-Year 
Fr. Paul Failla, outfield, Notre Dame 
The Observer/John Rock 

1992 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
MidLvestern Collegiate Conference 
Sept. 5-@ Northwestern (Soldier Field) FINAL REGULAR SEASON STANDINGS 
Sept.l2-MICHIGAN Sept. 19-@ Michigan State
BASEBALL SOFTBALL 
Sept.26-PURDUE
MCCGAMES ALL GAMES 
MCCGAMES ALL GAMES 
Oct. 3 -STANFORD
W-L W-L 
W-L W-L 
Notre Dame 1 5-1 36-12 
Oct. 1 0-@ PittsburghEvansville 10-5 24-25 
Detroit Mercy 7-3 22-7 
Notre Dame 7·3 30-25 
Oct. 2 4-BYU
Dayton 8-8 22-26 Loyola 4-4 18-24 
Oct. 3 1-@Navy
Butler 6-10 18-29 Butler 5-91' 12-22 
Nov. 7-BOSTON COLLEGE
Xavier 5-11 15-37 Evansville 5-5 16-32 
Detroit Mercy 3-12 12-25 
Nov. 14-PENN STATE
Dayton 0-8 11-27 
Nov. 28-@USC 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL MONTREAL MACHINE-Activated Dan Muray. American League linebacker. from injured reserve. NEW YORK YANKEES-Assigned Mike Gallego. NEW YORK-NEW JERSEY KNIGHTS-Signed Infielder, to Fort lauderdale of the Florida Victory Floyd. running back. and Steve 
NOTRE DAME SOFTBALL BOXES-
State League. for Injury rehabilitation. Starcevich. kicker. PacHic Coast league SOCCER MCC TOURMANENT EDMONTON TRAPPERS-Signed Phil Bradley. Major Soccer League DETROIT 5, ND 0 outfielder. WICHITA WINGS-Signed Dale Ervine. for­ND 1, EVANSVILLE 0 DETROIT A R H Bl 110 A R H Bl
IIOTRE DAME A R H Bl EVANSVILLE A R H Bl
BASKETBALL ward, and Kris Peat. goalkeeper. to one-year Theisen If 2 1 0 0 Miller If 3 0 0 0
L. Miller H 3 1 2 0 Pollman ss 3 0 1 0
National Baaketball A..oclatlon contracts. Harlukowicz cf 3 0 0 Foisomc 3 0 1 0 
Folsom c 0 0 0 Kuene cf 3 0 0 0
SAN ANTONIO SPURS-Named David Senko National Professional Soccer League Wasserman c 4 1 1 Cline pr 0 0 0 0Hayes r1 3 0 0 0 Hayes p 0 0
director of media services. HARRISBURG HEAT-Named Kelly Callahan 3 0 Tackett 1b 2 1 1 Hayes r1 3 0 1 0
Connoyer 2b 3 0 1 0 Wiley dp 3 0 1 0
Unned States Basketball League account executive. Promoted Gregg Cook. Rickard 1 0 1 0 Connoye r 2b 3 0 2 0 Pinter 1b 2 0 0 0 Spur1ock 2b 3 0 0 0 Scher dp 
NEW HAVEN SKYHAWKS-Named Rich public relations director, to assistant 3 0 0 0 Pinter 1b 3 0 0 0 
Boulac 3b 2 0 0 0 Sowders 3b 3 0 0 0 Forter
Percudanl and Steve Plkiell assistant general manager. 3 1 0 0 Boulac 3b 2 0 0 0 coaches. Signed Smokey McCovery and COLLEGE Alvarez cf 2 0 0 0 Sutton H 3 0 1 0 Kltchenmaster 3 1 1 2 Keys ph 0 0 0 0 
Quinn dp 0 0 3 0 3 2 Alvarez 2
Reggie Finney. guards; Sam Mack, forward. BALL STATE-Fired Jeri Findlay women's 2 1 May c 0 0 Hayes 3b 0 1 If 0 0 0 
Kmak ss 0 0 1 0
and John Beauford and Dan Cyrullk. centers. softball coach. 2 0 Manassah 1b 0 0 McCarthy pr 0 0 0 0 McMurray ph 1 0 0 0 World Baaketball League BROOKLYN COLLEGE-Announced the resigna­Ryan ph 1 0 0 0 Rockafellow r1 3 0 1 0 Quinn dp 2 0 0 0 
TOTALS 20 TOTALS 26
ERIE WAVE-Assigned Darelle Porter, guard. tion of Pete Alborano, baseball coach. and 1 4 0 0 3 0 TOTALS 27 5 a 5 TOTALS 24 0 4 0 to the taxi squad. Activated Frank Slllmon, Pat Alfarano, assistant baseball coach. E-Tackett, Pinter. OP-OM 2. LOB-OM 4. NO 3. 36­
E-Boulac, Kmak. Sowders. Manassah. OP-Evansvllle 1. 
LOB-Evansville 5. NO 3. 2B-Pollman. 3B-Oulnn. S-Folsom.
center, from the Injured list. COE-Named Amy Frankenstein athletic di­Harlukowicz. Wasserman. S-Theisen. Harlukowicz. 
FOOTBALL rector. PITCHING 
PITCHING
National Football League IDAHO-Announced the resignation of Gary DETROIT MERCY IP H R ER BB g)
f\PTREDAME IP H R ER BB g)
CINCINNATI BENGALS-Waived lckey Woods, Hunter, athletic director. to become ath­Hammerschmidt 7 0 0 0 2 4 Linn 7 2 0 0 0 0
running back. and Jim Lavin. tackle. letic director at Wichita State. f\PTREDAME 
EVANSVILLE
World league VIRGINIA-Announced the resignation of Jim Miller, C. 3.1 5 5 3 1 3 
Hayes 3 0
LONDON MONARCHS-Activated Ken Sale, Adams. men's lacrosse coach. effective Aug. 6 0 0 Alford 3.2 3 0 0 0 2 linebacker. from Injured reserve. Signed 1. Mike Rhodes, quarterback. 



1 "-., -.. • a & a .a ·• '0. • "'L 'L • ,. .,_ ' -. "''o. ..._ -r.. "''.. -_-_....._ ____ ~----"'--.. "1.. ..._ ...._ ..._ -... ...... -... ..._ ""'-....., -.,....,. --...-.---....-.._.-_._ -----------------------1------... ---------_._....,______ -----.-----· ___....._-.-__.__. .--.,.. .r --J-------~-r-., _. .,......_. ·.-..-p -·-.-'* • • -.. -., --_,. .. oo 


• -
--~--~--~ ­
'I!

eosa · ""'dtJ erii page 22 The Observer Friday, May 15, 1992 
Dunleavy leaves Lakers searching for a new coach 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. (AP) ­Help Wanted: New coach for Los Angeles Lakers dynasty which produced five NBA championships in the 1980s, Immediate company outlook bleak but job is steppingstone showcase for lucrative work elsewhere, 
When Mike Dunleavy surpris­ingly left the Lakers to become coach of the Milwaukee Bucks on Tuesday, he went to a re­ported eight-year contract. His predecessor Pat Riley, who coached the Lakers to four of those titles, found his own five­year deal to rebuild the New York Knicks. 
Both Dunleavy and Riley came to prominence with the Lakers from relative obscurity: Dunleavy as an assistant coach with Milwaukee and Riley from the Lakers broadcast booth. 
Both, however, came aboard at the Forum with star-studded casts of proven winners. Riley had Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Magic Johnson. Dunleavy had 
LeCrone leaves Atlantic Coast Conference to become head of the MCC 
Special to the Observer 
INDIANAPOLIS, In.­Johnathan B. LeCrone, assis­tant commissioner of the Atlantic Coast Conference for the past nine years, has been selected as Commissioner of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. LeCrone, who be­comes the fifth commissioner in conference history, replaces Daniel B. (Tucker) DiEdwardo, who resigned in February to become Executive Director of the Indiana Sports Corporation. 
LeCrone, 38, will officially begin duties at the MCC on June 
1. He will direct the nine-mem­ber conference that includes Butler University, University of Dayton, University of Detroit Merey, Duquesne University, University of Evansville, LaSalle University, Loyola University of Chicago, University of Notre Dame and Xavier University. Duquesne and LaSalle officially join July 1. Headquartered in Indianapolis, the MCC will be beginning its 14th year. 
"Jon's enthusiasm and de­termination. combined with his background as a student-ath­lnte and an athletie administra­tor, will be a tremendous asset to the MCC, its growth and con­tinued success," said Notre Dame athletic director Dick Hosenthal. "Jon comes to us from a first-class conference and I'm confident he'll bring along the same ideas and spirit which have helped the ACC to 
There are no small victories in the fight against heart disease. 

Congratulations To the Graduating Seniors of the College of Arts and Letters 
Johnson and perennial All-Star forwards James Worthy and Sam Perkins. 
The next coach will have Worthy, Perkins and center Vlade Divac returning from in­jury-plagued years. And it's a longshot that Johnson will ever be baek with the Lakers, even as coach, following his stunning retirement announcement last fall after he contracted the AIDS virus. 
Lakers general manager Jerry West was asked Tuesday what else could happen to the team after their 1991-92 season of crisis upon crisis. 
"There would be only one thing left, and you're talking to it," West said with a light grin concerning his own job outlook. "But that's not going to happen, I don't think." 
Only three days before Dunleavy's announcement, West said he had talked with team owner Jerry Buss about offering Dunleavy a contract for two more years -based on his 
prosper." conference championship ~._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._~ 
Since 1988, LeCrone has been events and interpretation and responsible for administration enforeement of ACC and NCAA of ACC projects in television, rules. marketing and public relations, Prior to joining the ACC, including eoordinating the syn­LeCrone spent four years as dicated television football Assistant Athletics Direetor at package, televising conference Wake Forest University. He championship events and devel­also spent a year in the Chicago oping revenue-producing pro­Cubs baseball organization as jects. During his first five years the business manager for the at the ACC, his primary duties Class AAA team in Wichita, 
jncluded the implementation of Kansas. 
~ /~GREt.)T 'YALL
~~CHINESE AMERICAN RESTAURANT~ COCKTAIL LOUNGEJkrsu~;~u~ s;~FnF~;a~f:~Nn4CHU,~n&8' 95 
f\.11-You-Can-Eat ~~-tu-la-t~i-o_n_s_ __, CHIUlfl£H 
UNDER 10~niors! fUERY SUNDRY $3.95 11 :30a to3:00pm 
Includes Soup, Salad Bar, Appetizers, 8Entrees and Desserts 
Catlaer ••au ltemt elu euelleblal 
30 Dixie Way S., South Bend (next to Ran~~~Jili!L272-7376 
Great Jobs BPRAs 
• 

Love, Judy 
miracle work in 1991-92 with a cast of wounded and unsung players. 
The Lakers of 1991-92 some­how won more games than they lost, and made a fight of it in the best-of-5 first round of the playoffs, before succumbing to NBA powerhouse Portland in four games. 
West was not available for comment on the coaching search Wednesday. 
But he indicated he is likely to go the same route again ­
picking a coach without proven rr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
NBA head-coaching sueeess. 
"I just feel comfortable with people I think are wide-eyed and enthusiastic," West said. 
That formula worked with Dunleavy, Riley and their pre­decessor, Paul Westhead. West elevated Westhead from Laker assistant coach to immediately lead the team to the 1979-80 ti­tle in Johnson's rookie year. 
West said Tuesday he has a list of three or so possibilities, but would not name anyone on 
Congatulations Jason D. 
We're very Proud of you! 
Much Love 
Mom&Dad 
that list. 

They may include eight-year Lakers assistant coach Randy Pfund, given a $100,000 raise a year ago to keep him from joining Riley in New York. But Pfund was in Sacramento on Monday to talk about the Kings' vacancy. 
The biggest names on the available list are Johnson and Chuck Daly, the U.S. Olympic team coach who ended his own dynastie run with the Detroit 
Baccalaureate Mass are available!!! 
Pick up order £or...s in all dor.us a £ron. Educational Media 
~---fill 
Educational Media 
University of Notre Dame 
Room 9 of the CCE Bldg. P.O. Box 1088 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
219 • 239 • 5465 
Pistons this year. 

West said he would talk with Johnson, who was the Lakers' coach on the floor for over a decade, but he admitted at a news eonference Tuesday that it was unlikely Johnson would consider the job. 
Experienced NBA coaches available inelude Mike Fratello, Doug Collins and Del Harris, who stepped down and out of the Milwaukee picture this year. 
~~OUR PHOTO t lPORTIA~TS 
916 Erskine Plaza • South Bend. Indiana 46614 (219) 299-0600 
35 mm & 110 mm Color Film Developing and Printing 
and 

Enlargements up to 12" x 18" from your 35 mm negatives 
IN ONE HOUR OR LESS 
PERSONAL PORTRAIT STUDIO 
• 
Quality Portraits at Reasonable Prices t 

•
Proofs in 1 Hour 

• 
Finished Photos-Same Day Call For Reserved Time 


Congrats' GRADS MAKE IT A GOOD LIFE! 

Friday, May 15, 1992 The Observer 
their mistakes, come back and make it right." 
MCC 
"We believe it can be done," 



continued from page 36 
inside and jamming us up the whole game." 
But with the Musketeers leading 2-1 in the eighth. Notre Dame dialed Cuervo's number. After Craig Counsell led-off with a single, Cuervo snared Eric Danapilis' sacrifice attempt and threw to second to nab Counsell. It looked like previous innings, when a failed bunt or stolen base spelled a rally killer. 
But then senior Joe Binkiewicz stepped up and dialed long distance, launching one over Covelski Stadium's 360' sign in right field. 
"I made an adjustment and backed off the plate," said Binkiewicz, who is starting to heat up late in the season and now has 10 round-trippers. 
Binkiewicz is part of Murphy's trifecta, along with fellow senior tri-captains Counsell and Cory Mee. "Those three guys are just amazing. They don't have the most talent in the world, but they're mentally tough. 
"They just go out and play hard and set the tone for the game. If it's not Bink, it's Counsell. If it's not Counsell, it's Cory Mee. They learn from 
Happy 21st Birthday 
Lisa Hawrylak This proves we're not as strict as you say we were 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Wendy 
stated Binkiewicz, whose team has come back in their last six MCC tournament wins dating back to last year's championship season. 
Michalak, the crafty southpaw who leads the conference in ERA for the second straight season, completed the game to raise his record to 9-3. His sinker-ball induced key groundballs as he scattered five hits. 
Next on Notre Dame's hit list was Dayton (9-11 in regular­season MCC games). The Irish jumped out to a first-inning lead on an RBI single by Binkiewicz. 
They added another in the third with a Mee sacrifice fly and exploded for five runs on three hits and three walks, as both Mee and Danapilis collected two-RBI singles. 
Notre Dame capped its scoring barrage in the seventh as three more crossed the plate. Titans' right fielder Jason Guvala dropped a fly ball and Edwin Hartwell came through with a run-scoring single. 
Sophomore Tom Price (6-1) collected his fifth straight victory, surrendering only a solo homer by Kevin Harpring in the sixth. Price went the distance, scattering seven hits. 
The Irish baseball team will need to rely on the arm of David Sinnes ... 
The Observer/Pat McHugh 

And the bat of Eric Danapilis in their quest for an NCAA tournament bid. 
Why Books Make Good Father's Day... Gifts For: 
1. 
Notatie! 

2. 
Not a tie! 

3. 
Not a tie! 



• 
Complimentary gift wrapping 

• 
We can ship your gifts anywhere! 


1. 
Less expensive than a car. 

2. 
Not homework anymore. 

3. 
Who needs another pen? 



I! /II hdp 1'1111/tllrl /!rwl:.•· \'""'II lor·r to gin·! 
Ironwood Plaza North Near the New Martin's Ironwood & S.IL 23 
277-4488 

LOUNGE RESTAURANT 
211-3776 
01 L IIADIION 
-

THE NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP ­
"ON THE CURVE "IN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
GRADUATION WEEKEND HOURS FRIDAY, SATURDAY AND SUNDAY 6:00AM-7:00 PM 
FINE APPAREL FROM THE BEST NAMES IN GOLF: TITLE1ST SLAZENGER WILSON REEBOK RAM 
page 24 

Cavs take advantage of Boston's front line woes 
RICHFIELD, Ohio (AP)-Even one of the best front lines in basketball history can have an off game, and they did Wodnesday night. 
Boston's storied front line of Larry Bird, Kevin McHale and Hobert Parish combined for two points in the second half as the Celtics lost to the Cleveland Cavaliers 114-98, putting the Cavs ahead 3-2 in their Eastern Confemnce semifinal series. 
The series moves to Boston for Game 6 tonight. A seventh game, if needed, would be played in Hichfield on Sunday. 
The Cavaliers are trying to make it to the conference finals for only the second time in franchise history. Boston, win­ner of 16 NBA titles, has elimi­nated Cleveland from the play­oil's twice before. 
"I don't know if it's anything we did that threw them off," said Brad Daugherty, who led Cleveland with 28 points. "We played our game, played a good, hard, physical game. Whether it threw them off, I don't know. Those guys usually get big numbers. Everybody has ishing the period with a 16-4 run capped by Mark Price's three long jumpers. Daugherty scored 12 points in the quarter. 
The decisive run began with three consecutive mistakes by Bird, playing for only the sec­ond time since April 3 because of a bad back. 
Boston missed a chance to cut the deficit to four when Bird threw the ball away with 4:35 left in the third quarter, and he then missed badly on a 20-foot shot and fouled Daugherty. 
The Celtics got no closer than 12 in the fourth quarter. 
"We knew what we had to do to beat Cleveland," Bird said. "We knew we had to play good defense, because they're a great shooting team, and we didn't do it." 
The Cavaliers dominated the frontcourt after Parish picked up two fouls within 18 seconds late in the first quarter. Parish was not much of a factor after that, scoring four points and 
The Observer Friday, May 12, 1992 

AP file photo Larry Bird and the rest of the Boston Celtics have their backs against the wall after Cleveland took a 3-2 lead in the series with a 114-98 win Wednesday night. 
grabbing eight rebounds. 
McHale also struggled, scor­ing two points on 1-for-9 shooting. Bird had 13 points and five rebounds in 20 min­utes, and Kevin Gamble scored 18 for Boston. 
Larry Nance and John Williams each scored 18 for Cleveland. 


If what happened on your inside happened on your outside, would you still smoke? 
oiT nights." 

Craig Ehlo bounced back from r;::::::;;;:==========:::;:==:::;:=====;il 
an 0-for-9 performance in
Game 4 by making his first eight shots in the game. Outscored by Boston counter­
part Heggie Lewis 42-1 in the 
previous game, Ehlo finished with 20 points, a career-high 13 assists and six rebounds. Lewis scored 27. 
"I only went 0 for 9 on Sunday so they'd leave me alone tonight," Ehlo joked. "Sometimes you have to sacri­fice yourself. 
"It always feels good to hit your first shot, especially when it's a 3-pointer. My second shot felt good too, and after that I was fine." 
Cleveland took an 18-point 
Congratulatt·ons Steve Trzeciak 
The four years went fast· it was a pleasure to have you at Notre Dame. 
Uncle Ed 

lead by outscoring the Celtics l:=====================~l!l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;!!J
34-23 in the third auarter, fin-
John P. O'Malley
8 
Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers 
IUIIOII • IIOIA-.4 

Auto & Property Insurance
CHICAGO 

AAA-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
MOTOR 

5922 GRAPE ROAD
CLUB 

INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 P~ase ask for John O'Mallley. 
1 Hour Film Processing 
~ ~a~~[b~ ~oomro~oooo 
~ (219)272-6710 
-

6301 E. University Commons South Bend, IND 46615 Open Mon.-Sat. 9-9 Sun 12-5 
Batteries
-Film 
D Chi Chi's 

~ ~ BaiiL
Ta~co 
3 minutes 

~ ~CIRCLE ~ 0 ~$'
ti MERA t;•.'" ~ . fromND
% Fun Ten ,.)· 
~ 
VIdeo 

"We are not permitted to choose the frame of our destiny. But what we put in it is ours." 
Dag Hammarskjold 
Diana Bradley Barbara Brown Tiffany Burnette Michelle Cano Jennifer Carr Kristen Costello Karen DaCosta 
Fernandes Heather Daniels Mary Dittrich Kara Duncan Lisa Eaton Nicole Farmer Cathrine Flynn Gina Galliera Natasha Gaul J anessa Griffin Julie Haurykiewicz Margaret Hobday Karen Hohberger Shawn Roll Mary Beth Irvin Julie Jennings Kateri Kerwin Kristen Kleiderer Elizabeth Knaus Christine Labaree Maria LaHood Laura LaVelle Shannon Ledesma Celine Lenehan Amy Lutz Kelly Lynch Shannon Lynch Melanie Masin Lindsey 

McCourtney Jennifer 
McRedmond Heather Meaney Kristen Mole Margaret Morgan Theresa Murphy Tyler Musleh Maureen Nelligan 
Kristin Niichel 
Gina Pribaz Ann Puetz 
Helen Read 
Colleen Ryan 

Victoria Schneider Andria Settles Michelle Sherman Jennifer Sinker Jennifer Slosar Paige Smoron Mary Stager Michelle Tambor Maryanne Thumser Teresa Uhoda Jennifer U tick JennyWany Bridget Welter Kathleen Wolff Susan Zilvitis 
Blessings on each of you as you live out your destiny. The Women of Lyons Hall 
l:====~-~~~~-~------------­
page 25 

Age doesn't keep Johncock from Speedway 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) ­Every year the struggle gets tougher, so why does Gordon Johncock keep coming back to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway? . 
The two-time Indy 500 Win­ner, old enough to know better at 55, is working hard this week trying to find enough speed to make the field for the 24th time. 
Eight other former winners are among the 27 drivers al­ready qualified for the tentative field, and two more, Tom Sneva and Johnny Rutherford, are on the speedway grounds hoping for another chance on the 2 1/2­mile track on May 24. 
"You just like to come back and run," Johncock said Wednesday. "Hopefully, you can just get comfortable and run with no headaches and problems. Then it's fun." 
But it certainly hasn't been fun for the Hastings, Mich., driver this month. Going into Wednesday's practice, his fast lap has been just over 214 mph, well short of what last year's sixth-place finisher expects it will take to the make the 33-car field. 
Coming here with a 1991 Lola-Buick, Johncock fully ex­pected to .have an easier time making the field than in recent years. He's made only three of the last seven races, often after finding last-minute rides in obsolete equipment. 
"This time, we had a good car and a good engine and plenty of time to get ready," Johncock said. "At least 
I thought we did. Things just didn't work out right. 
"One of the problems is that we bought this car from Pat Patrick and it was made for the Alfa engine. The team had to convert it for the Buick and they had to convert some of the Alfa parts and change the tunnels. 
"Then, when we got out on the track, we had problems with a bad oil leak, a nut that was thrown into the tur­bocharger and blew it up, then the car just had no power. From the apex out, 
I was in a constant four-wheel drift. When I came in, my tires had hotter temperatures than cars that had been going 220." 
But Johncock remains hopeful he can find the needed speed before the final two rounds of qualifications on Saturday and Sunday. 
"As a driver, you can always gain 2-3 miles an hour by sticking your neck out, but that's not something you want to do in practice," Johncock said. "I wouldn't want to accept anything under 220. All these guys at 218 and 219 have good backup cars. If they get bumped, they just go out and do it again. I don't have 
a backup. 
"We're going to keep running out there until we get it right. We're too far off right now. We might be able to go out there and qualify at 218 or 219 right now, but I surely wouldn't be comfortable." 
Other former champions al­ready in the field include four-time winners Rick Mears, A.J. Foyt and Al Unser, as well as Mario Andretti, Arie Luyendyk, Danny Sullivan, Emerson Fittipaldi and Bobby Rahal, all with one victory. 
Maffia questions King's financial act1ons 
Frank Bruno, Carl "The Truth" apartment in Manhattan, a gatwn between Tys?n and his 
fi:a~~ rii~~~~~;~day ~~~~ t~~ Williams and Buster Doug_las. ~o~~~.:~n~~~ V~!sasA~~~l:s~ ~o:t~i~~dm:;eas1f~~:~l~ Cda:J~~~ New Jersey State Board of I~ _each case, .M~ffiaf::~d~~~: ~ong the items billed to Tyson tions made from Tyson's purses Control, Don King's former ~:rstr~:~ ~~~~twn$~~5 500 for were $3,595 in monthly rent for and reported consul~ant fe~s ~f comptroller charged that the B fi ht $236,500 for the New York apartment, $50,000 per fight pard to Ki_ngs boxing promoter repeatedly ~~lli~~nso a:fd $319,000 for $5,295 for the cost of a new so?s an~ $!00:000 per frght ordered Mike Tyson to pay Douglas "This resulted in an telephone system in the Las pard to Kings wrfe, als well_adsta sanctioning fees beyond those ~ent of a roximately Vegas home and telephone, $52,000 per year sa ary pal o required by the WBC, WBA and $~~~6oo by Mr. pfyson," the electricity, cable television and Kin~'s daughter. to serve ..as IBF. ffid ' "t "d maid service for all three prop-president of the Mrke Tyson tan
Joseph A. Maffia's affidavit a 1 av1 sa1 . . club d d Maffia also said King charged ertres. · . . k K"
charges that King or ere f th cost of Other Maffia affidavits, filed Earlier thrs wee.' mg re-sanctioning fees of $350,000 Tys_ont . ?nrg e corporate in connection with pending liti-leased a hand-w.ntten _lett~r 
per fight for Tyson's bouts with mam arm a from Tyson, who IS servmg srx 
,..-----------------------------------~ years for rape in Indiana. In it, 

ROFFLER Phone (219)233-4957 
SORBIE PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS 
ROCCO'S STYlf SHOP 
531 N. Michigan St. Appointments or Walk-In 
Men &Women's Styling Cuts-Pennanents-Color 
BA EBALL FEVER!! 

the former champion said all charges were approved by him. The letter was headlined "Don King is innocent," and said in part, "I approved every ex­pense. ~.on King never stole from me. 
Please support your local chapter. 
+ 
America.n Red Cross 
Sunday, May 31st Cubs vs. LA Dodgers Bus leaves Main circle at 10 AM Leaves Wrigley 1/2 hour after game 
Sunday, July 12th Cubs vs. Atlanta Braves Bus leaves Main Circle at 10 AM Leaves Wrigley 1/2 hour after game 
Monday. July 27th Cubs vs. Pittsburgh Pirates Bus leaves Main Circle at 3:45PM Leaves Wrigley l/2 hour after game 
Sunday, August 9th Cubs vs. New York Mets Bus leaves Main Circle at 3:45PM Leaves Wrigley l/2 hour after game 
Saturday. June 6th White Sox vs. Oakland A's Bus leaves Main Circle at 2:45 PM Leaves Comiskey l/2 hour after game 
Sunday, July 20th White Sox vs. Milwaukee Brewers Bus leaves Main Circle at 10 AM Leaves Comiskey 1/2 hour after game 
Cost: $15 
(includes bus transportation and game ticket) 
Tickets for May and June games now on sale at the La Fortune Information Desk. 
Tickets for July and August games will go on sale to Summer Session Students 
beginning June 22nd, for faculty and staff beginning June 29th. Due to the 
demand for tickets, there will be a limit of 4 tickets per person. 
Sponsored b the Student Activities Office. 
L---------------------~------~ 

-----~----,---------~-~~-----~--~-------------------, 
page 26 The Observer Friday, May 15, 1992 
Top-seeded Americans advance in Italian Open action 
HOME (AP) -Top-seeded Jim 
Courier and No. 2 Pete Sampras 
reached the quarterfinals of the 
Italian Open with victories 
yesterday. 
Courier overpowered Sergi Bruguera of Spain 6-3, 6-2, while Sampras overcame a sec­ond-set lapse and beat Goran Prpic of Croatia 6-2, 6-7 (7-5), 6-3. 
Courier, the world's top­ranked player, overwhelmed Bruguera from the baseline with relentless ground strokes. With a speeded-up red clay sur­face on center court, Courier also won several points with a serve-and-volley attaek. 
"I thought it would be much more difficult than it turned out to be," Courier said. "But I'm not complaining. 
"Anytime I play, anywhere in the word. I feel like I am one of the players who can win the ti­tle. Horne is no different." 
Sampras was as dominant as Courier in the first set of his match. But he lost five straight games in the second set -dou­ble faulting five straight times at one stretch. 
"I was playing really well and then I just lost my rhythym and my concentration on my serve," Sampras said. 
Sampras led 3-0 in the tiebreaker but committed sev­eral unforced errors, allowing Prpie to come back and send the match into the third set. 
The turning point came in the sixth game when Sampras hit a forehand passing shot to break serve for a 4-2 lead. He served out the match three games later, punching a forehand vol­ley on the third match point. 
Sampras said the clay surface on center court, which has been speeded up by Italian organiz­ers, was playing faster every day. 
"It's good for my serve and volley game, although I was having trouble controlling my ground strokes," he said. "I hope I'll play on center again tomorrow." 
Also reaching the quarterfi­nals were unseeded Christian Miniussi of Argentina and No. 8 Petr Korda of Czechoslovakia. 
Miniussi beat Marc Rosset of Switzerland 6-3, 5-7, 7-5. Korda. down one set and 0-5 in the second, came from behind to beat Alberto Mancini of Argentina -the 1989 cham­pion and last year's losing fi­nalist-3-6, 7-6 (7-4), 6-3. 
The changes this year at the Italian Open, with its courts hardened and balls made faster 



Congratulations Alfin IV (Didi) N 0 Class of 1992 
You've come a long way and we are proud of you! Good luck in medical school. 
Love, Pop, Mom, Butch NO '91 , Mike, and Richie 


to accommodate the power sive, make the other person game, played into Sampras' honest," Chang explained. strengths as a big server and Sampras defeated Horst SkoiT hitter. of Austria, a good clay court 
"There's not much clay on the player, 6-3, 6-4 in a second­court and the ball bounces up round match Wednesday, while very high. All that really helps Courier downed Francisco my game," he said Wednesday. Clavet of Spain 6-2, 6-2 and "This gives hard court players a Chang, seeded fifth, stoppec. 
chance." 
r-----------------------....,
Michael Chang, a former win­ner of the French Open, a Grand Slam event also played on clay, has been skeptical of the trend toward power tennis. At 5-foot-8, Chang has no pre­tensions about playing the 
Congratulation 
power game. But as a thinking man's tennis player, he is changing his game 
Erin!
to stay competitive. "You have to be able to mix up a lot ... come in, be aggres-
Social Security. It never stops working. 
Italy's Henzo Furlan 6-1, 3-6, 6­3. 
Ninth-seeded Ivan Lend!, who won the Italian Open in 1988, was the only seed to be ousted on Wednesday, falling to Switzerland's Marc Rosset 6-4, 2-6, 7-6 (7-3). 
Convenient Student Living Efficiencies from $260 1-Bedrooms from $275We're just minutes from Notre Dame, Uni­2-Bedrooms from $335 versity Park Mall, the toll road and downtown South Bend. Our quiet community with spa­cious, well-kept grounds has a lot of appeal to -Featuring ­the serious student. We offer 24-hour emer­+ Planned Activities Program + Beautiful Clubhouse & Poolgency maintenance service ... and we have +Air Conditioningan activities program that includes fme aero­+ Dis,Josal + Laundry Rooms bics classes, social functions, toe. ·1 sports + Ba!>rietball Court and much, much more. + Picnic Tables & Grills +Volleyball Court + GazeboIf you're looking for the ideal off-campus +Cable TV Available home stop by today and we'll show you com­+ 24-Hour Emergency fortable, affordable apartment living! Maintenance Service • Ask about the Hickory Village Summer Breeze ... the easy and economical way to keep+llCKORU your apartment through the summer and still go home. UlLLA~E~ 272-1880 Conveniently located on Hickory Rd., just north of EdlsLn _______ ~usin~s Ho~: _!:!o~F~9-7, Sat.~-4 and Sun._!3-~ ______ _  
VALUABLE COUPON $15 $15NO APPLICATION FEE! Save $15 when you apply for an apartment at Hickory Village. Just present this coupon to the leasing agent and the $15 application fee will be waived. $15 $15::.:·· if VALUABLE COUPON !·, · '• •  

, 
,
' 
' 
' 
' 
'
' 
' 
1 th Anniversary of Pasquerilla West 15Dth Anniversary of Notre Dame Best Dorm on Campus·u1 -·u2 Best Graduating SeniorsI Go Weasels! 
~ 
Friday, May 15, 1992 The Observer page 27 







Arthur Andersen Welcotnes the Follo-wing University of Notre Datne and Saint Mary's College Graduates to Our Firtn 


Elizabeth M. Anroman Michelle C. Kerwin 
New Jersey Office Houston Office 
Christopher T. Blanco Katherine A. Klemmer 
New York Office Chicago Office 
Melinda M. Bowker Matthew M. Knott 
Chicago Office Chicago Office 
Jeffrey M. Burgis Timothy J. Linehan 
Chicago Office Chicago Office 
Heather A. Burns David J. Ludwig 
Boston Office Indianapolis Office 
Stephanie G. Bury Thomas F. Matthias 
New York Office Chicago Office 
Joseph Christaldi Matthew P. McCiimon 
Chicago Office Indianapolis Office 
~ 
Kimberly A. Coady Alex R. Miller 
Chicago Office Chicago Office 
John F. Coffey Patrick R. Murray 
Chicago Office Chicago Office 
Sheila J. Dombal Keri A. O'Connor 
Stamford Office New York Office 
Sarah K. Esterline Robert M. Quinn 
Chicago Office Atlanta Office 

Ann M. Fleming Robert J. Reich 
Chicago Office Denver Office 
James J. Gillen Kevin D. Rooney 
Boston Office Chicago Office 
Peter D. Goslin M. Margaret Shane 
Chicago Office Chicago Office 
Philip G. Groves Gregory T. Soroka 
Chicago Office Chicago Office 
Nancy L. Hau Jennifer K. Switzer 
Chicago Office Chicago Office 
Thomas R. Hester Michael W. Taufkirch 

Chicago Office Pittsburgh Office 

Daniel R. Hickle Robert F. Thomson II 
Chicago Office Milwaukee Office 
Matthew B. Jenkins Michael A. Toner 
Atlanta Office Philadelphia Office 
Amy E. Witt 

Chicago Office 







~------~--~--------­
--------------~~--~~--~---~~-­
page 28 The Observer Friday, May 15, 1992 
Alzado dies after long struggle with brain cancer 
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) -Lyle Alzado, once among the most feared players in professional football. died Thursday of brain cancer, a disease he blamed on 
his prolonged  use  of body­ 
building steroids.  
The  two-time  all-pro  

defensive lineman died peace­fully in his sleep at home. !lis wife, Kathy, was at his side. He was 43. 
The disease reduced a moun­tainous athlete known for his bone-jarring violence on the field to a whispering shell of a man. 
Alzado had come to Portland in March for an innovative "blood brain barrier" chemotherapy treatment pi­oneered at Oregon Health Sciences University. He was able to receive the therapy only once before he came down with pneumonia, a common side ef­fect. 
"lie was as determined and as brave as any of our patients are," said Raymond Hogan, clinical coordinator of the treatment program. "His idea was to throw the book at the tumor. lie wanted us to go in with both guns blazing. I never knew him to believe that he wasn't going to beat it." 
Alzado, who was born in Brooklyn, N.Y.. was the first player from Yankton College in South Dakota ever to be drafted. lie was chosen in the fourth round by Denver in 1971 and played for the Broncos for eight years. 
He played three years for the Cleveland Browns and four for the Los Angeles Haiders before retiring in 1985 and beginning an acting career. lie failed in a comeback attempt with the Haiders in 1990. 
"lie had a great career and did everything with gusto, whether it was football, acting or whatever," said Craig Morton, quarterback of Denver's 1977 team known for 
be remembered for most was 
his fight against steroid use by 
youngsters. Hopefully, they will 
use this as a lesson." 

Alzado said he began using steroids in 1969 and spent $20,000 to $30,000 a year on the drug. He also said he used a human growth hormone during his comeback attempt, which he believes helped destroy his im­mune system. Even after he stopped playing football, he kept taking the drugs. 
"I had my mind set and I did what I wanted to do," Alzado said of his steroid use. "So many people tried to talk me out of what I was doing and 1 wouldn't listen." 
After he was diagnosed with a rare form of brain lymphoma in April 1991, he began making appearances on television talk shows to urge youngsters to stay away from the drug. 
The Lyle Alzado National Steroid Education Program, part of the nonprofit Athletes and Entertainers for Kids or­ganization, was established to educate young people about the damaging and life-threatening effects of anabolic steroids and human growth hormones. 
But there was never any proof 
Bill~ 

You've come a long way--Are we proud of you? You bet! 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Dan 

Lyle Alzado 

that steroids caused Alzado's illness. 
"As a scientist, one cannot really say it is clear the an­abolic steroids led to the lym­phoma," said Dr. Thomas DeLoughery, a blood cancer specialist at Oregon Health Sciences University. "I think it's unfortunately open to specula­tion." 
Dr. Gary Wadler, a steroid expert at Cornell University Medical Center-North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y., was more emphatic. 
"We were unable to really substantiate any cause and ef­fect relationship beyond mere speculation and Lyle Alzado's own contention that this some­how was related," he said. "The evidence that lymphoma in general and lymphoma of the brain specifically is related to abuse is really unfounded at the present time." 

DeLoughery said he hoped Alzado's death would spur the close examination of others who used steroids over a long period of time. 
Steroid use has been linked to prostate and liver cancer, he said. 
In the treatment in Portland, a sugary solution is used to clear a pathway to the brain and the chemotherapy is deliv­ered directly to the tumor. 
DeLoughery said it was un­clear whether the single treat­ment Alzado received did any good. Alzado had received ra­diation treatment in California. 
DeLoughery would not specu­late whether doctors in Portland could have saved Alzado's life if he had come to Oregon immediately after his diagnosis. But, he said, 40 per­cent of those who receive prompt brain barrier treatment are free of the cancer five years later. 
Alzado was discharged from the Oregon hospital April 23. 
No autopsy was planned "out of respect for the family and our feeling that little could be gained," DeLoughery said. 
Congratulations, Graduates! 
Call the official Notre Dame travel agency for discounted fares back to campus...and all of your travel needs.
AloFonnn~~'~'~'~~~' ;~,~;,~:.:, J~,~;,., 46516 
Phone: 1-P()0-7DOMERS Al9-239-7080 
its "Orange Crush" defense. -------------:F;;;;;;;;;;;~ii~;;;;;;;~~~~~~~~;;~~~;~~~~~~~~~~~
"But I think what. he wanted to f1 

The MALABAR ExceUent 1ndlan Cui.slne 
OP£N 
Tua. ·-Se&t. 
5:00pm 

RnERP..tTIONS DIS\RID 
1709SOU'J1lMJm ,An. (EIJU(»( liMU.S. 23) (219) 271-0115 

Best of Luck Class of '92! 
Thank You! 
The Fondue Parlor 

From the College of Science Faculty and Stan 
The Water Watch is the first watch in the world that runs on ordinary H20. Has Ditigal Time and setting buttons. To activate just add a few drops of water, to recharge just do the same. Eliminates costly batterys, comes in assorted colors and styles. 
Watches come in circle face in blue with black ban, red face white ban, camouflage survivor black ban with compass, black face blackban and purple face black ban. rice $16.00 + $1.75 for shipping. Add $1.00 more for camouflage. Send check o money orders to TBJ INC. 125 RUE MALLARME, SOUTH BEND, IND. 46615. Allow 2 .. 3 Weeks for delivery • 
..,..______..., ______.~Jr .........---··--·..... .... ~.­
~ 

---~---~---~~~--~--------­
Friday, May 15, 1992 The Observer page 29 
l-

C£.91SS 0~ 1992 9'011 MfjJ q'J{f£ f}v[f£fJr{rBf£~ O!FY0111(!FYl%IL .9l!J(f£ C01('])JULYFJ\[o/IPE ']) fJ'O .9Ll]'l'£'Jf!J CJ':J{f£ Sf£9\{J02(CLf4SS (j2(5ZL'D1.19Lrr'I09{'1J !Ff£.9LfJ'119U9\L{j 13013 SPJ(01J']J & fJ'Jff£ 1(0C~fJ'1(.9L !f9U']J.9LY, !M.9LY15, 1992 9:00p.m. -1:00 a.m . .9LfJ'fJ'Jff£ JCYYCE .9LfJ'J--fLf£fJ'IC MfjJ C09\Lo/OC.9LfJ'I09\LCE9\LPE1(  
1:.. WILL BEs~·••~ PREMIERIED AT 10:00 p.m. VIDEO IT CAN BE PURCHASEDA lasting reminder of the great days in the FOR$10.00lives ofNotre Dame's Sesquicentennial class.  

-~-~-------~-------------------~----~--------------------~--------~ -~-----­
page 30 

Seniors handle golf pressure 
By JIM VOGL 
Assistant Sports Editor 

In four years at Notre Dame, most senior have learned to handle pressure. 
At Burke Memorial Golf Course on Tuesday, the team of Matt Heslin, Bill Boehner, Marc Flusche and Jeff Goeser re­sponded to pressure by hitting three bogies in the final three holes to win the Senior Golf Tourney. 
"When we started out the back nine," explained Boehner, "we knew another team had al­ready finished at 62 (through 18 holes). We knew we would have to bogie six of the back nine." 
Three other teams fell one shot short of victory: Gary Jungels, Gregg Cooper, Jon Pettitti. and Mike Brown; Mike Crisanti, Mike Dehring, Brian Shortal and Tom Clare; and Ed Seall, Adam Dopps, Loren Crosbie and Mark Kiskorna. 
Boehner Jed the victorious 
The Observer Friday, May 15, 1992 
f 
Oh•<ArvAr/.lnhn Rock 

During the Senior Golf Tournament Tuesday afternoon, Mark Reuter concentrates on a shot while teammate Mike Kanaris looks on intently. 
team to a 33 on the front-nine with some powerful tee-offs. Heslin stepped it up on the back nine with several booming tee-shots of his own, 
Congratulationswhile Goeser finished them off with steady putting throughout. 
"Matt Heslin really took charge at the end." said Boehner. "lie got a great drive 
The Observer/John Rock 
TO THE LIEUTENANTS 
One, two, three ..
at 18 that landed about 25 yards short of the green." 
Irish shortstop Ruth K~ak, along with fellow seniors catcher Amy
In the clutch, Mark Flusche 
AND ENSIGNS OF THE 
Folsom and p1tcher Mel1ssa L1nn, wrote NO softball's history books. 
came through with tough birdie shots at 15 and 18. Atop the field of 80 partici­
NOTRE DAME ROTC 1992 
Keeping your we1ght at a moderate level may scale down your risk ot hearl attack. So ma1ntam a healthy
pants, the first-place team re­
diet and lighten up on your heart.
ceived a $40 prize, while sec­
COMMISSIONING CLASS 
ond-place finishers got $20 per team. 
Local car dealer Jordan-Ford sponsored the much­frequented beverage tent, and 
ARMY,
gave out $25 prizes for two contests. 

&~American Heart Association 
Heslin heated up and won the 
V WE'RE FIGHTING FOR 'lOUR LIFE

MARINE CORPS, 
"longest drive" award, while Jim Klaur got the "closest to the pin" award. 
NAVY,
The Senior Month Fund also donated $.50 per participant to charity. 
AIR FORCE 
"All in all, the tournament 
WE'RE STIRRING
was a great success," said commissioner Terry Wilken. 
THINGSUR 
:You are warmly invited 
to attena the 

s~~o~o/oL~T.E~~s~~o~~ 
to 6e fz.eU 



10:3051!M 
at 


:for 

dinner bread and rice and Shoney's special teriyaki sauce. It's available at
Seniors doing vo[unteer worfc_ajte.rgraduation 
both lunch and dinner. And at such a low price, it's really causing quite a stir.
and 

Available for a limi1ed lime al par1iripaling res1auran1s. 

theirfami[y and friends 
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 
The Observer 
Friday, May 15, 1992 



ANTHONY
Detroit Mercy ends Irish bid for third straight MCC title KING 

couple more errors and all of
By JIM VOGL 
the sudden it was a five-run ball 
Sports

Assistant Sports Editor 
game," said Boulac, whose 
Guru

team arrived at the field around Three-peat? Not! 
7:30 a.m. and finally left after

The Notre Dame softball 
their 5-0 defeat, around 10 p.m. 
Die hard fans
team's chances of winning their "It was a long day," he mused. 
third straight Midwest 
Notre Dame's season is notCollegiate Conference softball 
spark hatred for
over yet, as they will participate crown was thwarted by an old 
in the National Invitational
nemesis-Detroit Mercy's Lady 
their teams

Classic in Macomb, Ill., May 21­Titans. 
23. 

It's true folks, believe it or
Last season, Detroit took 
"This is what we've worked not, Bill Laimbeer is a productthree of four from Notre Dame for, the recognition that comes of the Golden Dome. 
regular season action. But the 
Melissa Linn Ruth Kmak from playing this type of peo­
As much as most of us would
Irish got revenge in the 
ple," said Boulac, referring to
tournament, we were like to forget it, one of the mosttournament. After the first­gates themselves. 
Western Illinois, Coastal
concerned that we might be hated men in basketball, or all
seeded Titans took the first Titans' ace Teresa Emery, Carolina, East Carolina,
going with just two pitchers," of sports for that matter, wasgame 3-1, the Irish came back among the league leaders in Southeast Louisiana, Princeton
said Boulac. But Linn nurtured and weaned on Notreand defeated them 9-3 and 2-0 ERA, held Notre Dame in check 
and regional rivals Bowling
to win the championship. throughout the game. In the rebounded from shoulder Dame Catholic values. 
Green and DePaul. 
Since his graduation,
problems and picked up the
This year had all the top of the seventh, the commit­"It will be difficult in a way
ted three errors and let the team's only two victories in the Laimbeer has gone on to makeprospects of a repeat perfor­because the first set of games
tournament. his name synonymous withmance. Both teams sported a Titans go ahead 2-1. In the 
7-3 MCC record and split two bottom half of the inning, the But a relentless Detroit Mercy will be played during gradua­dirty play and trash-talking
tion, so we'll be without the se­
regular-season nail-biters un­Irish stranded a runner at third. squad made Notre Dame's basketball. Along with cohorts 
niors," said Boulac. The se­
marathon Wednesday even Dennis Rodman, Isiah Thomas, der the dome. Both teams had "We did some things very un­niors-Linn, catcher Amy Folsom
longer. The Lady Titans jumped and Mark Aguirre, Laimbeerfirst round byes, as the Irish characteristic of our team this and shortstop Ruth Kmak, have
season to make mistakes like on starter Carrie Miller early. has made the Pistons one of(coming in 30-25 overall) got 
been the team's foundations
pole-position based on their that," said coach Brian Boulac. After a lead-off walk and a the most hated teams in 
since turning varsity four years
sacrifice, Rosseman America.
record against regionally and "When you make three errors Chris ago. Since then, the Irish have Not many like the Pistons be­
stepped up and crushed an RBI
nationally ranked teams. in an inning, you can't keep any 
gone 133-103 including two
Though the Irish started out team from scoring, especially triple. The Irish, legitimately cause of their obnoxious, cocky 
conference crowns.
expecting a close contest, drew and rough-house attitudes.
beating Evansville 2-1, the one as good as Detroit." 
the infield in and Detroit This is one way a team gets
game put them in a hole, as Notre Dame rebounded in the "Hopefully we'll play well
promptly responded with a under one's skin. 
rain suspended the contest until elimination round, shutting out enough that we can play well 
The other is the fans of a
Evansville, 1-0 behind a solid ground-ball single. 
Wednesday. 
enough without them to keep on
"We played well the next few team. Nothing makes a teamThat same day, the Irish met performance from senior playing," said Boulac. 
Detroit and opened the flood Melissa Linn. "Going into the innings. But then we made a more hateable than an obnox­
ious fan. If you know a die­hard (fill in the team) fan, nothing is worse than hearing about a team)'s victory for the next eight weeks, especially if it is against your team. 
Simply because of a fan one can grow to hate an entire
THE COLLEGE OF BUSINESS 
team, town, or state. For in­stance, I never really cared about Chicago sports teams. But due to obnoxious and over
ADMINISTRATION 
zealous Cubs and Bulls fans, I have come to hate Chicago sports teams, with the White Sox being the lone exception. 
And Hoosier fans, well, enough said. 
To live in South Bend for four years is enough reason to loathe Chicago and Indiana 
OFFERS HEARTFELT 
CONGRATULATION AND 
sports. The sports program­ming is a virtual nightmare for non-Chicagoans and Hoosiers. 
Picture this, it's NFL Sunday
BEST WISHES 
and the long awaited San Francisco 49ers and Washington Redskins unde­feated matchup awaits on CBS
TO OUR GRADUATES OF 1992 
and the Bills' challenge of the high powered Houston Oilers is set for NBC. Pumped, I sit in front of the tube ready for an afternoon of gridiron action, only to find out I get the ex­treme privilege of witnessing
·~YLC!J{'£LO~O!f~VSI9{1:SS 
the (0-55) Colts face the (0-54) Buccaneers, and the forever mediocre Bears versus (1-33) Green Bay.
YL1JMFJ{JSPJ(YLfJ'I09{ 
The sad part is that this goes on every week until the play­offs, when they have to show other teams. If this isn't enough, try watching the local
•M.9LSPE~ O!f ~VSI9{1:SS 
news sportscasts. Unless iou like the a) Cubs b) Bulls c) Hoosiers d) Bears e) all of the above, you won't see a glimpse
YL1JMI'J\{JSP1\_YLfJ'I09{ 
of any other team. When I first got here as a freshman, I thought that a.ll the other teams were on strike, along 
with the entire NHL. 
After being bombarded with Chicago-Indiana propaganda for four years, one begins to grow ill at the mention of ei­
•M.9LSPE~O!F SCI'£9\[C£ If}{ 
YL1JMI'J\[JSPJ(YLfJ'I09{ 
ther. The mention of a seven million dollar strike out from Ryno, a missed Gatorade dunk from Michael, or an over-rated Damon Bailey being benched all bring a grin to my face. 
Bill Laimbeer don't despair, you may be forgiven, eventually. After all, your sins aren't deep enough to merit hate, and your name isn't Jimmy Johnson. 
~<_)I J.EGE_DF Bt JSI'IES.S ADI\IINISTRATION 
UNIVERSITY OF NOI"RE DAMI~ 

-~ ~-~--------­
------~---~­
page 32 The Observer Friday, May 15, 1992 
Lacrosse falls to Johns Hopkins in NCAA tourney 

By JOHN ROCK 
Managing Editor 
Notre Dame lost to Johns Hopkins University in the first round of the NCAA Division I Men's Lacrosse Championship held last Sunday at Hopkins' Homewood Field, falling to the firth-seeded Blue Jays, 15-7. 
Notre Dame went into the game seeded 12th, after nudg­ing out Michigan State for the automatic Midwestern bid. 
The Irish were underdogs going into the contest. This was only the second time the Irish have made the NCAA play-offs, losing both times in the first round. Johns Hopkins has won 42 national lacrosse champi­onships in its illustrious history. 
"They are a very good shoot­ing team," said Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan before the game. 
"We've got to keep the ball out of their hands and get good play from our goalies, like we've had all year," he said. 
The Irish didn't control the ball very well at the outset, though. Hopkins' Adam Wright, who ended up with four goals for the day, set Hopkins on track with an early score, coming at 1:59 into the first period. 
Scores by Jeff Wills and Terry Riordan made the tally 3-0 at the end of the first quarter. 
Hopkins gunned eleven shots in the first period to Notre Dame's four and out-shot the Irish 2 2-1 7 in the first half. Hopkins goalie Scott Giardina made 14 saves off of those 17 shots, blanking Notre Dame in the first half, while the Blue Jay attackmen added another four goals to up the score to 7-0. 
Notre Dame got back on track and was first to strike in the third period. After a Hopkins penalty, the Irish were on man­up offense and Brian 

Kevin Corrigan 

Mayglothing got the Irish on the board at 1:37 into the third. 
Hopkins' Brian Lucacz and Wills retaliated and elevated the score to 9-1 with ten minutes left in the period. 
Randy Colley then scored the first of a 3-2 Irish run to end the third quarter. He added another goal at 10:33 into the third, after Ed Lamb and two Hopkins players. The score go­ing into the fourth was 11-4. 

The Irish continued to try and come back. A Tom Carroll goal early in the fourth brought the Irish to within seven, but a point from Wills and two quick goals by Brian Piccola at 5:24 and 5:52 into the fourth put the game all but out of the reach of the Irish. 
Ron Snyder rounded out the Irish scoring after Colley recorded the only Irish hat­trick. Hopkins' Wright, Riordan and Wills each hit three or more. 
Hopkins hit the final goal with 
1:48 left to play, ending the scoring at 15-7. 
"It would have been a differ­ent game if we went into half­time 7-4," said Corrigan after­wards. 
"We're disappointed that we 
lost. We came here to win, but 
I'm proud of our performance. 
We hung in there," he said. 

Hopkins head coach, Tony Seaman commented on the play of his goalkeeper. "Giardina proved it; I don't think there is a better keeper in the country." 
Giardina made 21 saves in 
three-and-a half quarters and 
only allowed five scores. 

"Things were going my way today," said Giardina. 
Hopkins advances to the sec­ond round to play cross-town rival Towson State University tomorrow in Towson, outside of Baltimore. The Irish finish 
their season with a 10-5 mark. 
Trouble packing your stuff? WELL ... 
STUFF THIS 
In Whatever you can and 
**~* 
ck it and sh 
• Books • • Stereos • 
• TV s 
Boxes Pitts 
5622 Grape Road Wilshire Plaza 
(b':)!'Nc'3n 'Naccarnaw and Sam's Club) 
Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 
Call these numbers !Jr any large item pick-up and get your Free 
Discount Coupon!!! 
283-3047 283-1022 277-5555 

~~~me~m~g~~~~~~~~~~~h~~~~~~~~~~~.~~~~.n;gl1l~l7lilnl~lelfli~.•••~;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;
round of the NCAA championships. 
For Sale New Notre Dame Men's Ring Size 11 1/2 10k blue stone no engraving $225.00 Please call (206)275-6622  
Congratulations to the Graduating Seniors of Stanford Hall -Class of 1992­ 

1 
WHERE THE sroNE AGE
•nsTHE ROCK AGE. 

A CHILLIN' NEW COMEDY IN FULL NEANDERVISION. 
HOUYWOOO PICTlJRES,....,.. ·-...TOUCHWOOD PACIFIC PARTNERS I "ENCINO MAN" SEAN ASTIN BRENDAN FRASER MEGAN WARD MARIETTE HARnEY RICHARD MASUR ...PAULY SHORE ~MICHAEL ROTENBERG """"'"':J. PETER ROBINSON =HILTON GREEN ":GEORGE ZALOOM.SHAWN SCHEPPS 
l~::::tl~l l.am:;;5WN~~~~~~ORG~~~±~~I~LD A 
-. -.uwocJD ...'111M... 
THAWING THIS SUMMER AT A THEATRE NEAR YOU 

Friday, May 15, 1992 The Observer 
Talented recruits join Irish hockey team 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame hockey team braced itself for the long, cold winter season ahead, singing one of the most talented re­cruiting classes in recent school history. 
The Irish will be entering the ultra-competitive Central Collegiate Hockey Association. Last season, they got a tough initiation by dropping all 16 scheduled games against CCHA members, including the likes of Michigan, Western Michigan, 
Illinois-Chicago and Ferris State. 
To their rescue comes a class of four Canadian products and several recruits from America's best junior programs. 
"We've looked far and wide to bring the kind of players that can step in and play at the most competitive level of collegiate hockey," said sixth-year Irish head coach Ric Schafer. 
Schafer's freshmen icers will include left-wings Chris Bales and Jamie Morshead, left-de­fenseman Davide DalGrande, and center Jamie Ling, all from 
r-------------..;;,;....;;..1~.....;.,;,_;,..;_....;._;,....:.:,,;____
·ons 
.

Congratu att 
Michael 
Love, Mom and Dad 

the "great white north." 
Other new names to look for in the rink for Notre Dame in­elude left-defensemen Matt Bieck and Jeremy Coe, right-de­fenseman Garry Gruber and right-forward Jay Matushak. Gruber chose to forego playing for his high school team and compete in the United States Hockey League. 
"The Canadian players have the seasoning and experience we're looking for, and the American recruits come from winning backgrounds," noted Schafer. 
"We're making a greater 
commitment to hockey, and our recruits will help us develop the attitude necessary to play well in the CCHA next year. As a group, they will play a major role in this adjustment." 

• 
Or on a bike ride. 

Or out for a jog. Whatever your sport, vigorous exercise can help keep your heart healthy. 
AAmerican Heart V Association WE"RE RGHTII\G Frn 'tQURUFE 


Only a 1/4 mile from campus 
Welcome Graduates and Families! 
Present this ad to your server and receive a 10% discount for your entire party! 

By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
This week will mark the end of an era for the Notre Dame men's tennis team. 
Senior all-American David DiLucia, the only Irish player ever to boast the number one ranking in the Volvo Tennis/Collegiate Rankings, will lead the Irish into their second straight NCAA tournament ap­pearance beginning today against Mississippi State in Athens, Georgia. 
DiLucia has been the fuel that has carried the Notre Dame tennis program into national prominence over the last four years, and his final NCAA tour­nament appearance will offer him one last chance to lift the Irish to a national crown. Notre Dame's only tennis title came in 1959, when the Irish shared the crown with Tulane. 
This year, however, DiLucia won't have to carry the burden 
Congratulations to All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Graduates! 
May you have a Joyous, Festive and Memorable Weekend. 
Best Wishes! Michigan National Bank 
.........~-------­
page 33 

alone. The entire team has proven that they can compete with the nation's best, winning 20 of 23 matches this season to finish ranked 1Oth. 
First-round opponent Mississippi State has been equally impressive this season. Ranked seventh heading into today's action, the Bulldogs look to tenth ranked singles player Daniel Courcol as their main threat. Courcol also combines with Laurent Miquelard to form the nation's 20th-ranked doubles team. 
Today's match appears to be a toss up, with both teams making their second consecu­tive NCAA appearances. Last year the Irish knocked off Kansas 5-2 in the first round before eventual national cham­pion USC handed them a 6-0 defeat. 
The Bulldogs were also first round winners in 1991, defeat­ing New Mexico 5-3, but they were knocked out in the second round at the hands of UCLA. 
Last season, in the only pre­
vious meeting between the two teams, Notre Dame defeated Mississippi State 5-2 on the strength of four wins in singles competition. 
In individual competition, three Irish players will be look­ing to strike NCAA gold. DiLucia and junior Andy Zurcher will compete in singles action, while DiLucia will team up with junior Chuck Coleman in the doubles competition. This is DiLucia's fourth straight appearance in the sin­gles competition and the second time he's competed in doubles action. 
Zurcher is making his first appearance in singles, but he competed with Will Forsyth in last year's doubles competition. Coleman is also making his second trip to the NCAAs, after he and DiLucia fell in first­round doubles action in 1991. 
From top to bottom the Irish have all the tools necessary for a strong run at the NCAA title. Whether it's as a team or indi­vidually, it could be a history making week for the Notre 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Damemen'stennisteam. 

Auriol to coach 
U.S. Olympic fencing team 
Special to the Observer 

COLORADO SPHINGS, Co.-Tht) United States Feneing Association has nominated its coaching staiT and armorer for the 1992 U.S. Olympic Fencing Team. 
The three coaches are: three­time Olympic coach Yves Auriol (South Bend, Ind.), Penn State assistant coach Wes Glon (State College, Pa.), and Columbia University head coach Dr. Aladar Kogler (New York, N.Y.). Three-time Olympic Team armorer Dan DeChaine {Claremont, Calif.) was selected as the team's armorer. 
Nominations have been submitted for approval by the United States Olympic Committee's Games Preparation and Services Committee. 
Yves (pronounced Eve) Auriol, a native of France, is in his seventh year as head coach at the University of Notre Dame. He was a coach for the 1980, '84 and '88 U.S. Olympic Fencing Teams. He coached the U.S. teams at the Pan Am Games (1987, '91), World University Games (1977, '79) and World Championships (1986, '90, '91). He has led the Fighting Irish women to two NCAA Championships. 
Among Auriol's pupils have been three-time Olympian (1980, '84, '88) and seven-time national men's foil champion Michael Marx (South Bend, Ind.), now his assistant at Notre Dame. 
Two of his former fencers are at the top of the U.S. rankings in their respective events and are expected to be selected. 
Robert Marx (Portland, Ore.) is a two-time Olympian (1984, '88) and two-time Pan Am Games team member (1987, '91) who is ranked number one in the men's epee event. 
Molly Sullivan {Malden, Mass.) is a 1988 Olympian and two-time member of the gold medal Pan Am Games women's foil team {1987, '91) who is ranked first in women's foil. . 
Both Marx and Sullivan have had significant World Cup re­sults this season, with Marx's 15th place in London in March and Sullivan's 24th in Germany in April. 
DOCKED 
AT THE 

100 CENTER 
MISHAWAKA 
C>~C>o 

PRINCESS 
RIVER RIDES 
c;o.~c::;> 
Cruises Tues./Sun. 
2-4 7-9 P.M. 
Adults $7.00 Child $3. 

Illinois Twilight keeps Irish track team busy 
By JIM VOGL His best efforts included a Assistant Sports Editor 4:08.0 in the mile recorded at the Alex Wilson Invitational, a A few members of the Notre time good for eighth best on Dame track team will keep busy Notre Dame's all-time list. this weekend and well into the Schneider also ran 2:33.14 in summer. the 1,000 indoors, while his 
This weekend, a dozen partic­best outdoor effort was 3:54.06 ipants will represent the Irish in the Illinois Twilight at Champaign. II. The meet will be, "A last-chance opportunity for fellows to qualify for the IC4A's and for those already qualified, a chance to hone their skills to a razor's edge," said Irish head coach Joe Piane. 
The IC4A's will be held in Boston on May 24-25, followed 
?:\" by the NCAA Championships in Austin, Tx., June 3-6. 
During this time, a core of three seniors hope to culminate 
.::~·~,:~.

their collegiate careers with 
Shawn Schneider 
memorable achievements. 

One of them, Shawn at the Dogwood Relays in Schneider, was recently named Knoxville, Tn. 
Another senior, Phil Caspar,the squad's most improved ath­

lete. The Philadelphia native runs the 400. "Phil has done a posted consistent numbers fine job the last two years; he didn't run his freshman or
throughout the entire '92 sea­son as he raised his racing to a sophomore year," said Piane. 
Caspar hopes to make up fornew level. 
WE'RE PUTTING DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS. 
Hu1unsJup .tor 11 /)rug·F,·r· !lml'nl'r/ 
Wait a minute ... 
Before you pop the corks and drive down Notre Dame Avenue after commencement, get this: 
You)re a part of the family 
... as an alumnus/a. This entitles you to one final pop quiz: (No peeking at the answers and no wagering please) 
1. 
(This first one is absolutely. positively FALSE. Got that?) The Alumni Association is a fund-raising organization. (FALSE) 

2. 
The Alumni Association is a service organization with 94,500 alumni and 220 clubs worldwide which provide a wide array of programs. (TRUE. It's the most extensive alumni network in the world.) 

3. 
The majority of alumni wear plaid pants. (FALSE. It only seems that way.) 

4. 
Reunions, Hesburgh Lectures, student send-offs, legacy receptions and community service programs are just some of the events sponsored by the Alumni Association. (TRUE. We couldn't afford an ad listing everything we do.) 

5. 
You will have to pay dues to the Alumni Association. {FALSE. You are considered a lifetime member just by graduating. Some deal, eh?) 


Congratulations! 
For information on the Notre Dame Club nearest you, contact our office at 201 Main Building (219) 239-6000, or keep on the lookout for your first issue of ALUMNI, the newsletter for alumni which lists all the clubs. Don't forget to keep your address current with our office; your classmates will be looking for you. And stop by the Hospitality Center during football weekends in the JACC; we'll be there to say hello! · 
lost time with a good showing in Champaign. 
Accomplished distance-relay runner Brian Peppard will also be graduating. The Dublin. Ireland, native qualified for the NCAA's his freshman year and his chances on returning rest on this weekend's race. lie may run in Ireland's club system following his collegiate career. 
Legitimate NCAA hopefuls for the Irish are a pair of distance­runners: Mike sophomore McWilliams and junior John Coyle. 
Laura, 
Freshmen John Cowan and 
J.H Melon> will combine in the 1500 this weekend along with junior Nick Hadkewich. Cowan has already qualified for the IC4A's in the staple event. 
Sophomore Chris Boss runs the 400M along with Caspar. Junior J.T. Burke hopes to earn a qualifying time in the distance race, as does David Amitie in the high hurdles. 
Notre Dame will also send high jumpers Todd Hermann and Bryan lleadrick. 
You're always reaching to do your very best· we're so proud of you! 
Congratulations 8 All our love, Mom, Dad, Stephen, Paula, Teresa, Nan, Gommie, and GrampiJoe 



ay 

15 1992 e 35 
wt:. H£RE AT SP£LVNK£R \IJO\JW L.IKE To CoN6RAIVLAT£ ALL IH£ q!\f\DUA11N0 SENIORS AND \IJIS\-1 You rtLL &ooDUJCI<. You WILL B£ M ISSE:D  JAY HOSLER  
YEAH. TH£R£ WERE ACTUAU'/ A CDUP!.E Oi= Yoo vJE UK€D.  
JOHN MONKS  

"For crying out loud! Look at this place! ... Well, this 
Final decisions during continental drift 
is one little Satanic ritual that's coming to an end!" 
ACROSS 
1 Dreamer 
9 Residence 14 Scraped dry 16 Composer of 
"Bolero" 17 Give up 18 Western pasture 
grass 19 Three-toed sloths 20 Bartolomeo 
Cristofori's invention (pl.) 22 River flowing into the North Sea 24 Stirrup-shaped bone of the middle ear 25 Investor's income (abbr.) 26 "The Taming of the 
" 28 Selves 29 Roast: Fr. 30 Faucet 32 Of improving human­
ity environmentally 34 "The Dark at the 
Top of the----" 37 Singer ----Brewer 38 Rids of pollutants 40 Ohio or Co 1 ora do 
(abbr.) 
Collegiate CW83-10 
41 October birthstone 10 Lawyer (abbr.) 42 ----shop 11 Outbursts of 44 Bose and Bartlett applause 48 Accelerate 12 ----praecox 49 Lincoln's Secretary (madness) 
of State 13 Rubber band 51 Fat used in making 15 Failure in school 
tallow 21 Uncle in "The 52 Fear Addams Family" 55 Ursula Andress film 23 Sell to the public 56 Was sick 27 Homeless child 57 One who reconse-29 Actor George or 
crates? Steve 59 Mother ----31 Prepared 60 Inhumanly severe 33 Here rests in peace 61 Inferred conclu-. (abbr.) 
sions 34 Mother ---­62 Loses weight 35 Film about far-away places DOWN 36 Toward the ocean 38 The act of trans­1 Literary composi-porting 
tions 39 Roof builders 2 Crush (a bug) 43 Pertaining to a 3 Swearer clan 4 Prefix: gas 45 Native of Melbourne 5 ----show 46 Review a case 6 ----fatuus (decep-47 Ship parts 
tive goal) 49 Teams 7 Calm 50 "La ----Vita" 8 "! Was a -53 Mexican money 
Werewo 1 f" 54 ----1 i ght 9 Greek city 58 Noise (abbr.) 
Congratulations to all graduating Observerites. Thank you for all your hard work. · Good luck in all your future endeavors. 
L@l.UE'~lm  Aquilm©  
Clhuri ~  B@l.©©Kil  
5lh~ri  B@l.rt~r  

E~i© B@l.il~y 

M@l,Xi@l. ial©hillli1 K~wilm Bl©t Li~@l B©u~d©Kil c~~@l.r C@l.p~ll@l. 
J@l.y C©lU©©i 

JDl@l.w~ lDli~t~ilfli1@l.im IM!ik~ lDluddy Li~@l. E@l.lt©im Jh1i1il Ell!~ ~~n~ F~~Jr@l.im 
C@l.thy Flyimim C©ll~~fi G©timim©Kil Gillb>~~t G©illli1~~ J©~ Guddl~illli1i Li~@l. Guim~©~~k 
Aimth©imy Kilm~ K~wilm Ir\liim~~l~ Al~~~i@l. Kulwi~© J©lhm L@l.~i©©i@l. lDl@l.w~ L~~ Aillli1y L~~©U~ K@l.~@l. Liimd~illli1@l.im P~t~ L©ftu~ K~i~tilm Lyim©h lDl~imi~~ M@l.~tilm 
L@l.UE'~  M@l.~tilm~~  
Aimd~~­ M©Cl©~k~y  
K@l.thi~  M©Cl©~t~y  
JDl@l.w~  M©M@l.h©Kil  

J©him M©imk~ B@l.~lb> M©~@l.im F~@l.fi M©y~~ Ali~~©l Mu~phy Th~~~~@l. Mu~phy 
Tyl~~  Mu~l~h  - 
J©hml  ous~i~Kil  
Cri~  Orti~  
Tiillli1  ~©~~~~  
Mi©h@l,~l  5l©h©ll  
G@l.:t'~  ,SJ©hW@l.~t ~  
L@l.fi©~  ~©©tt  
Juli~  ~h~ph~rdl  
Ji!!li~  ~h~:t'id@l.im  
JDl@l.W~  ~h©~t  
M@l.:t't  ~l©©lim  
JD)@l.fiiD.lilit@l.  ~iillli1p~©Kil  
!»@l.i~~  ~ili'li1©:ib©fi  
Th©illli1@1.~  Th©illli1@1.~  
J~~~i©@l.  T~©lb>@l.ill~h  
K~ll~y  Tuthill  
Ir\~wilm  \W~i~~  
lDl~r~k  \W~~fi~r  
EL1i1ilily  \Will~tt  
Mi©h~ll~  W©©d  ....  

Special thanks to Shirley Grauel our office manager. 
~~·.-.·.· .. ~·"· .... -c.:.-,,.. ~_ 
• 
-
~ . 
r 
page 36 
DAVE DIETEMAN 
Purple Haze 

Father Beauchamp calls the shots for 
Rosenthal 
In Dick Rosenthal's five years at the 
helm of the Notre Dame athletic de­
partment, more than a few scandalous 
things have happened. 

Noel O'Sullivan strangely stepped down as golf coach, Dennis Grace was ousted from the soccer office, Art Lambert fled the volleyball court and Digger Phelps was forced into retirement. 
The University signed a landmark deal with NBC (and nearly inked a pay-per­view deal with ABC), cancelled its wrestling program, sent football players home for "personal reasons," brushed aside Steve Huffman's allegations of widespread steroid abuse and delayed announcing plans for stadium expansion for another year. 
As a result of these bizarre goings-on, Mr. Rosenthal has come under considerable attack from all sectors of the University community (not including the administration). 
Yet through all the controversies, one figure has escaped significant criticism-Fr. E. William Beauchamp, the executive vice-president of the University. 
Mr. Rosenthal is, apparently, a puppet of Fr. Beauchamp. told to dance, fire and hire as the Reverend Willie sees fit. 
Fr. Beauchamp is, like Mr. Rosenthal, a businessman. He is a concurrent assistant professor (whatever that is) of management and teaches (of all things) business law, which makes some sort of sense, since many criminals are familiar with thf' laws they break. 
Yet Fr. Beauchamp is the executive vice-president in charge of athletics and as such. he is authorized to do as he sees fit. He must (hopefully) have such decisions as the cancellation of a wrestling program approved by Fr. Edward Malloy, the president of the University. before ordering Mr. Rosenthal to enforce such edicts. 
The responsibility, then, for such atrocities perpetrated under the Golden Dome during the past five years does not lie ultimately with Dick Rosenthal. Mr. Hosenthal is of course an accomplice to these crimes and is thus guilty .. 
Yet the ultimatn responsibility lies with Fr. Beauchamp. 
The rritidsms dir!lcted at Mr. Rosenthal thus apply to Fr. Beauchamp as well, since it is his grned and lack of scruples which makf' Mr. Hosenthal dance. Of course, Mr. Hosnnthal should then be further eritidzed as not only greedy and unscrupulous but as all the more guilty for following Fr. Beauchamp's illicit commands. 
Members of the Notre Dame "family," thnn. ought to pause to consider how high the stench of eorruption rises in the dome. Does Fr. Malloy have any control over his executive viee-president? Does Fr. Malloy stand by Fr. Beauchamp's underhanded dealings? 
Being familiar with the workings of the Notre Dame public relations (read: propaganda) machine, one is safe to assume that questions such as these will never be answered. 
But think of them the next time you sing the fight song. 
INSIDE SPORTS 

• Auriol named U.S. Olympic 
Fencing coach see page 34 
• Hockey team signs big 
recruits see page 33 
• Lyle Alzado dies see page 28 
--------~­
Sports 
Still going ... 
Nothing outlasts NO's Dan Amitie when it comes to the hurdles. The Irish track team will be busy at the Illinois Twilight today. Story p. 34. 
Friday, May 15, 1992 
University says no to expansion 
Colloquy 2000 plan has priorities 
ByJIMVOGL Assistant Sports Editor 
As the demand for Notre Dame football tickets continues to grow, the supply-59,075-remains the same. 
The University announced that it will not expand its football stadium at the present time. The deferral of action on expansion followed a Board of Trustees report on May 1 which detailed the most extensive study ever conducted on the 62-year old stadium. 
Although the study deter­mined renovations and repairs would definitely be needed, it pronounced the structure sound, according to the South Bend Tribune's May 7th article. 
Further consideration on expansion will not begin until at least a year from now, according to ticket manager Bubba Cunningham. 
"I've had correspondents from Moose Krause to season tieket holders talking about future expansion since 1968," said Cunningham. 'They've of­fered 10-15 different thoughts and ideas about what we could do." 
Among the proposals were upper-decks on either side of the stadium, u­shaped decks and the construction of a new 

Bubba Cunningham 
stadium north of' campus. 
Some have even concocted proposals for a new domed stadium or a re-location of the golf course to accommodate a football field and parking for fans. 
But Cunningham reassured, "These rumors were all talk and speculation, not from any­one in authority at all." 
"Stadium expansion will be discussed as a part of the Colloquy for the year 2000," said Cunningham, "whieh is a University self­study evaluation of where we are today and where we will be going into the next century." 
Currently, Notre Dame receives ticket applications from some 33,000 alumni. Their names go into a weighted lottery for 16,000 tickets for individual games. The potential alumni pool continues to grow about 2,1 00 each year. 
Baseball seeks MCC title, NCAA bid 
By JIM VOGL Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame baseball team is out to erase the memory of two lone blemishes on their Midwestern Collegiate Conference this season and the scar of being jilted by the NCAA tournament seleetion committee last season. 
The first-seeded Irish downed Xavier 3-2 Wednesday evening, avenging a 1-0 loss to the Musketeers earlier this season. Yesterday afternoon, they mauled Dayton. 10-1 aftern losing to the Flyers 5-2 last Wednesday. 
Junior right-hander Pat Leahy ((8-3, 
2.90 ERA) will be on the hill tomorrow against Detroit in a battle of undefeated tournament teams. The Titans beat Evansville 3-2 yesterday, while second­seeded Aces were beating Xavier 10-3 in the seventh inning of the consolation round. 
This season, the MCC carries an automatic NCAA tournament bid. Three or four more wins, including a possible meeting with the tough Evansville squad, stand in Notre Dame's way. 
Wednsday's game pitted Musketeers' Bernie Cuervo against Irish ace Chris Michalak in a rematch of the April 25th game, in which Cuervo shut out Notre Dame batters on just four hits. 
"He's as good a pitcher as we've seen," said Irish coach Pat Murphy of Cuervo, who was 3-8 with a hefty 5.91 ERA on the season but who seems to have Notre Dame's number. "He was locating his fastball well, pitching us 
see MCC/page 23 










