The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 45 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush, Clinton spend final days on campaign trail Bush fights till end with fitful gusto Clinton won't ease up schedule 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. (AP) -
CINCINNATI (AP) -Bill Clinton is President Bush seems to have stopped looking worn and fighting a raspy voice worrying about whether his final as his 20-hour campaign days catch up political campaign is a comeback tour or with him. But the Democrat quoted a a last hurrah. Almost out of time, the former basketball coach to explain why president fought on with fitful gusto on he won't ease up. "Time's running out. Sunday. Don't stall. Press." 
Clinton rejected aides' advice to trim 
While his strategists dwelled over the back his pace. He was eagerly squeezing latest polls and decided where next to hands when he got to his hotel at 4:30 send the candidate, Bush lobbed volley a.m. Sunday and brushed off a sug­after volley of verbal buckshot at his gestion that he sleep in and skip church. Democratic opposition. Still, his vocal cords were shot by Gone was any pretext of syntax or church time. And at a drizzly pre-game
GEORGE BUSH
appearing "presidential." tailgate party, Clinton tried to say a few words. All that came out was painful, Barre, Pa., Clinton's voice seemed better 
"I love to fight this one out in the last • Election coverage I pages 8,9 scratchy noise. 
but still hoarse and cracking as he 

several days on character and trust. Yes, at times, he seemed subdued, even re­"Bad, huh?" he rasped out to the talked for a few minutes and said the 
he is a character," Bush told cheering signed. crowd. ''I'm going to let Hillary say election was between "those who saysupporters in a basketball arena here. Asked Sunday on CNN about overnight something. 
things are fine and those of us who Bush called Democrat Bill Clinton polls show that Clinton's lead to be believe we can do better." "Slick Willie" and said: "He is bobbing increasing slightly again after narrowing "I want you to remember," he "Sick as a dog," was how aide Bruce and weaving and you cannot do that as over the past week, Bush said: whispered on. "We've fought for a year. Lindsey described Clinton, but quicklypresident." We've got two days to go. My voice will amended that description to "just voice "You don't live or die by an overnight be better by this afternoon. And I'll be 
sick." Lindsey and other aides travelingYet, at other times, Bush's campaign poll. Trick or Treat. You know what I there Monday. I'll be there Tuesday. at the same pace are sick, too. seemed to be revving in neutral. He mean? Last night. So, just take your Fight on." 
On Saturday night Clinton said he was spent 40 hours of the weekend in Wis­message to the people, emphasize And that was it. Clinton lasted 21 

remembering the words of an old friend consin, a state with only 11 electoral leadership and emphasize character and seconds, and then Mrs. Clinton spoke. and basketball coach as he pressed to votes and where Clinton is ahead. And trust. And I believe I'm going to win." Later, at an airport rally in Wilkes-the finish line. 
Columbia ND hosts 
the Supreme Court, as were the

earlier forecasts, barely any Sorin Hall Senior John Creel reads to pass the time while waiting in line for basketball student tickets 
fog. Sunday night. Tickets went on sale this morning. 
committee. As reporter, Mooney prepared and drafted the research for the committee 

meeting that had never, until By EMILY HAGE Vice-President of University re­had a significant economic other people. Why not give a this year, taken place at Notre News Writer lations; and Joseph Kernan, benefit. They are bringing universal message, going back Dame. 
mayor of South Bend, spoke at money into the community, but to the dream we all have. Three of the four persons a pre.ss conference afterwards. more important than the short­Sometimes people try to steal who have served as reportersPositive persistence seems to Conklin began by saying that term benefits is that South Bend our dreams," said Ruettiger. since the committee wasbe the name of the game when this is the second time in 52 and ND will become part of Having Ruettiger on the set brought into existence haveit comes to "Rudy" the movie years that they have announced movie that will be a success like every day has helped Astin to been Notre Dame Law School 
and Rudy the individual. Last a movie at Notre Dame, and he the last one," said Kernan. get to know his character. He faculty members. Friday, the TriStar crew and said he has been pleased with Rudy's persistence featured in said, "Rudy's there every day. The committee is composedactors endured the cold, cloudy their presence on campus. the film brought his story to the It's neat for me because of the mainly of federal courts of ap­weather to film football shots "This group has been very screen. "The principal factor collaborative nature of this peals judges, including the for the upcoming feature film. eager to open into the ed­has to do with Rudy. He kept movie. There's an extra dy­chief justice of the Iowa
The men on the field, from ucation program and involve calling, and he was turned namic. It's kind of fun." Supreme Court. Although thethe shivering stand-ins on the 


Crew of 'Rudy' pleased with filming on campus 
students in an educational down many times. He never Astin has undergone an ex­committee cannot amend the 
sidelines to the linemen rolling way," said Conklin. He said that left us alone, and it kept stick­tensive weight training pro­appellate rules, the members
around in the dirt to "look they have welcomed the ing in our minds," said gram, and even had the chance seek to make recommendations dirty," cannot include any participation of students, in­Anspaugh. to "put on the pads" with Ruet­for amendments. Notre Dame football players ac­cluding the art history and The message of "Rudy" en­tiger. "It's been an evolutionary The recommendations gocording to NCAA regulations. communications departments. couraged Ruettiger to persist. process. Everything I see and through a complicated process
A panel comprised of Rob They have not used ND "as just "I was just like any other guy, learn about Rudy I'm finding whereby they proceed to a Fried, producer; David a backdrop," said Conklin. but I wanted to do an extraor­out more about him," said standing committee on rules,Anspaugh, director; Angelo Mayor Kernan said he also dinary thing. The journey is the Astin. "Rudy is a survivor, a and if approved, are publishedPizzo, writer; Sean Astin, who felt positively about the effect of pain we all go through. It took multi-faceted guy," said Astin. for a six-month period duringplays Rudy; Rudy Ruettiger, ND the "Rudy" filming on the South the integrity of the message. I '76; Richard Conklin, Associate Bend community. "This has felt that my story could inspire see RUDY I page 6 see JUSTICE! page 6 



--~---~-­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A final consideration before voting 
In the last few weeks we have been inundated with sermons from the religious right about the implications of the 
Brendan Regan
ballots we cast 
Graphic Artist 
tomorrow...and face it, we all ignore them -----:---:-:--:-:-­because we are going to vote our individual conscience anyway. I prefer to focus on the ramifications of the ballots we cast tomorrow, as I strongly feel that it is not simply a religious issue. Whether a person committed a sin by voting a certain way is irrelevant and confounds the real issue: whether an innocent being is given the opportunity to experience life or is exterminated. 
Abortion. It is the first entry in the Yellow Pages. Perhaps it should be cross-referenced as "Convenience Killing." I can just see the advertisements: Did you make a mistake, and now wish to avoid your responsibility at any cost? Don't think, just call4-COPOUT now! 
But that might force people to actually reflect upon what they were about to do, and the abortion-rights camp doesn't want that at all. That's why they oppose waiting periods, parental/spousal notification and mandatory counseling. You see, they're not pro-choice at all. The word "choice" implies multiple options, and this group is going to any length to see that alternatives are not presented to those who are inclined to have an abortion. 
We must recognize why the so-called "pro­choicers" are so opposed to any choice other than abortion: it undermines their objective. You see,. abortion is the vehicle for the feminist agenda. Pregnancy is the indisputable "trump card." It is women's ultimate power over the men who dominate society. Whether or not you subscribe to feminist sophistry, can you justify their misdirected malice? 
Or maybe you exempt yourself from the above because while you claim you are personally opposed to abortion, it is a woman's right to do as she chooses with her own body. Patently false. It is not her right to, say, steal "with her own ~ody." Or do drugs, or engage in prostitution. So you see, there is precedent. It is ·ust a matter of whether or not you have the fortitude to stand up and say, No, this is wrong, and you are forbidden to do it. Democracy en­tails limitations. 
It all comes down to your integrity (or lack threof). I personally would stick the lethal needle in a psycho rapist killer or myself get killed as a member of the national defense on which I advocate spending money. I don't close my eyes and let other people do the dirty work I claim to support. So if you could vacuum apart a fetus limb from limb, I respect your vote for Clinton or Perot. If not, you're a pretty sorry individual who should really contemplate the validity of your convictions. 
I'm not trying to hoodwink anyone: a vote for George Bush is a vote to stack the Supreme Court to overturn Roe-an extreme measure for an extreme injustice. The Vote Pro-Life billboard on Eddy St. says it all: The issue is that important. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
CAMPUS 
ND Graduate wins emmy 
• NOTRE DAME-Hubert Schlafly, a 1941 Notre Dame graduate, has been honored with an Emmy Award for outstanding achievement in the science of television engineering technology from the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. Schlafly, who designed and holds the patent to the TelePrompTer, received the award for work in broadband, multichannel cable television technology. His research activities have helped lead to the conception and testing of the multichannel, multidirectional microwave, the development of the set­top converter, and the implementation of the geostationary sattelite relay for national programming distribution. 
NATIONAL 
A fiery Halloween 
• CAMDEN, N.J.-Cali it "Mischief Night" or "Devil's Night." It's a fiery Halloween Eve tradition in Detroit and Camden, N.J., but it appeared that thousands of police, firefighters and residents put a damper on it Friday night. Camden had its worst arson spree last Oct. 30. Instead of tossing eggs or soaping windows, as they used to do, Mischief Night pranksters set 133 fires. Using 600 volunteers, along with extra police and firefighters, the impoverished city of 87,000 hopes to thwart vandals from torching buildings. The goal this year: Reduce the number of fires by 25 percent. "There won't be any more burning up of Camden. We're fired up. We're not going to take it anymore," said lifelong Camden resident Robert Jeter. 
OF INTEREST 
• 
Democratic Headquarters needs people to work on Election Day. Anyone interested can contact Suzanne Staebler at 284-5006 or 288-VOTE. 

• 
A Basketball coach for 5th and 6th grade boys is needed for Our Lady of Hungary School in South Bend. Anyone interested, please call 289-3272 between 8 a.m. and 2 p.m. Practice can begin any time. 


MARKET UPDATE 
Monday, November 2, 1992 
67 57 59 43 45 40 30 14 62 59 56 42 46 68 58 45 72 64 53 48 54 38 68 52 61 48 


Today's Staff 
News Production Julie Barrett Susan Marx Sarah Doran Kim Massman 
Sports Systems George Dohrmann John Halloran 
Accent  Viewpoint  
John Fischer  Honora Buckley  
Gerrie Hamilton  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING October 30 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 196,803,563 •.. 85 to 230.57 S&P COMPOSITE ·2.18to 418.68 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS ·19.99 to 3,226.28

UNCHANGED 595 

GOLD 
.$.10 to $339.40 oz 
SILVEH -$.3 to $3.762 oz 
Letterman agrees to extension 
• NEW YORK -David Letterman is free to explore opportunities outside NBC under a deal that extends his contract nearly three months as host of the network's popular "Late Night" variety show. The deal, announced Friday in a joint news release, extends Letterman's contract from early April 1993 until late June. Reports that Letterman was unhappy with NBC and would end his 10-year stint as host of the program have circulated for more than two years. 
WORLD 
Pope gives absolution to Galilee 
• 
VATICAN CITY-More than 350 years after being forced to his knees by the Inquisition, Galileo was re­habilitated today by Pope John Paul II. The pope made a major speech today on the Italian astronomer, math­ematician and physicist who was condemned in 1663 for saying the Earth was not the center of the universe. The case has long symbolized the conflict between science and faith. Theologians at the time erred by thinking the "literal sense of sacred scripture" explains the physical world, the pope told church officials and scholars at the Pontifical Academy of Sciences. In fact, the pontiff said, there are two realms of knowledge, "one which has its source in Revelation and one which reason can discover by its own power." The two realms are distinct, but should not be considered opposite, he said. 

• 
Grace Hall's annual 24-hour run will be held this weekend on Fieldhouse Mall. The sign up is in Grace's lobby. It doesn't matter what dorm you're from, all you need is a desire to raise money for the Northeast neighborhood center. 

•Notre 
Dame Accounting Association presents KPMG Peat Marwick, tonight at 7 p.m. in room 222 Hayes-Healy Center.. The presentation topic is "The Second Interview." All accounting majors are welcome. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1889: North Dakota and South Dakota became the 39th and 40th states. 

• 
In 1947: Howard Hughes piloted his huge wooden flying boat, the Spruce Goose, on its only flight, which lasted about a minute over Long Beach Harbor in California. 

• 
In 1948: President Truman surprised the experts by being re-elected in a narrow upset over the Republican challenger, Thomas Dewey. 

• 
In 1976: Jimmy Carter was elected President, defeating incumbent Gerald Ford 

• 
In 1980: A young boy found murdered in Atlanta becomes the 15th such casualty in six months. 

• 
In 1983: Ronald Reagan signed a bill making Martin Luther King, Jr.'s birthday a national holiday. 



Monday, November 2,1992 
IU students file lawsuit to appeal unfair grades 
FORT WAYNE. Ind. (AP) ­Students who failed a man­agement course deserve a fair hearing by Indiana University on an appeal of their grades, a judge has ruled. 
Students filed a lawsuit in Allen Circuit Court involving marks given in the course taught by Ahmad Karim, asso­ciate professor of business and economics, during the summer of 1989 at the Fort Wayne campus. 
The action alleged the stu­dents were tested on materials not covered in class lectures or the textbook and other reading material. It contended that en­rollment in the course consti­tuted a contract between the students and the university, and because it was not taught as contracted. the school breached the contract. 
The students' attorney, John Feighner, said the case is un­precedented because it applies constitutional protections of due process to students appealing academic matters. 
Sally Mahnken, one of the students and a plaintiff, said the r,ourse usually was taught by professor Richard Hill, but he was on a sabbatical leave. The course was supposed to cover the behavioral sciences aspect of management, but Karim fo­cused on production aspects of management, she said. 
Ms. Mahnken and some other students who failed appealed without success to Karim, the marketing department and the Academic Appeals subcommittee before taking the case to court. 
Circuit Judge Thomas Ryan did not rule on the students' complaint that the university breached its contract by not teaching the class they signed up for. He said if the students had received a fair hearing, it would have provided an answer to that. 
However, the judge did rule that university appeals officials unfairly took evidence from Karim, but did not allow the students to present evidence before ruling against them. 
Ryan directed the attorneys to set a hearing on the students' requests for damages. No date has been set. 
Ms. Mahnken said that be­cause the course was required for a degree in business, the students took the course a sec­ond time under a different in­structor and received better grades. She and other plaintiffs have since graduated. 
The former students want the court to expunge the grades from their records, order re­imbursement for tuition fees and expenses paid for the course, and award other dam­ages. 

Club Column 
NOVEMBER 2, 1992 
1) All Clubs must make an appointment with their division chairs for their first semester meetings. Information pertinent to all clubs will be discussed. Contact your division chair for an appointment time. And remember to check your mailboxes regularly. 
2) Toastmasters International, a speaking club for students, wil meet this Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Foster Room, third floor LaFortune. 
3) Campus Bible Fellowship meeting Tuesday 7 p.m. room 304 Haggar Saint Mary's College. 
4) Asian American Association (along with the Philippine and Korean club) dance at the Knights of Columbus, Friday11/6. 
5) .§.tudent Alumni fielatlons ,qroup meeting Tuesday, 11/3 at 7 
p.m. in Lafortune's Notre Dame Room. 
6) Psychology Club pizza party a~uno's Wednesday, 11/4. Meet at the library circle 6:15p.m. for rid~ 
7) Society of Professional Journalists meeting Thurs. 11/5 at 7:00 in Lafortune's Foster Room. 
All register9Q clubs may place short announcements of maetin~ and activities in the CLUB COLUMN. Entries are due in the Club • Coordination Council Office by 6 p.m. on Wednesday. 
Makeitwithusand 
the skysthe limit. 

The Observer/Michelle Dire· · 

Preparation time 

Students participate in one of Campus Ministry's Confirmation classes which are open to all students in­terested in being confirmed on campus. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -William Barr earned high marks as a Mr. Fix-it for the Bush administration, but lately things have not gone so smoothly for the attorney general. 
In the closing days of the presidential campaign, the Justice Department seems to be in disarray. 
First there were allegations that the administration was covering up illegal loans to Iraq made before the Gulf War by the Atlanta branch of the Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, which is owned by the Italian government. 
Then the news broke that the Justice Department was investigating FBI Director William Sessions, who was conducting his own probe of the BNL scandal. 
Barr became attorney general a year ago at age· 41, succeeding Richard Thornburgh. Only Robert Kennedy, 36, and Ramsey Clark, 40, were younger when they took office. 
In contrast to Thornburgh, Barr is accessible and affable, even self-deprecatinog at times. 

Many in the Justice Department credit him with bolstering morale by restoring power to the assistant attorneys general who run the various divisions. 
Barr solidified his standing in the Bush administration by providing legal justification for the U.S. invasion of Panama in 1989, and by his handling of a potentially explosive hostage crisis at an Alabama prison in the summer of 1991. Nine hostages were released unharmed after being held for 10 days by armed Cubans facing deportation. 
"I think he's hard working, honest and responsible," said Robert Del Tufo, attorney general of New Jersey, who has worked closely with Barr on crime-fighting initiatives. Del Tufo, a Democrat, has criticized the administration -and Barr -for opposing gun control. 
"When it comes to ~nalyzing a problem, he is one of the quickest people I've seen," said Chicago attorney James G. Richmond, who used to be one of Barr's top aides at the Justice Department. 
Barr's critics are upset that he did not turn the BNL case over to a three-judge panel for appointment of an independent counsel. Instead, he picked his own man for the investigation. 
"This is the biggest crisis to hit the department since the Saturday Night Massacre almost 20 years ago and it requires full and independent 
· review," said Rep. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y. 



Senator says rape charge totally false 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Sen. Dave Durenberger, R-Minn., said he'll take a paternity test to disprove a woman's claim that he raped her in 1963 and fathered a son. 
Joyce Rauscher, who said she 
was attacked after hiring 
Durenberger as a divorce 
lawyer, is seeking at least 
$50,000 in damages for physi­
cal and emotional pain and the 
cost of raising the son. 
Durenberger was served with 
a civil complaint in July and a 
formal lawsuit was expected to 
be filed Monday, the Star 
Tribune reported Sunday. 
"With every fiber in my being 
I deny what this woman has 
charged me with," Duren­
berger said in a statement Sat­
urday. "If the motivation of this 
suit is political or monetary, 
that is very tragic. But if it is 
personal -this young man 
seeking the truth -that truth 
and its consequences to me are 
not something I fear. 
"Though I am under no legal obligation to do so, I will submit to appropriate scientific tests that will put this matter to rest." 
Rauscher's lawyer, Elizabeth 
Cloutier, welcomed Duren­
berger's willingness to undergo 
a paternity test. 
Durenberger was elected to 
the Senate in 1978. His current 
term expires in January 1995. 

Happy 19th Birthday Kath 

Love, Eileen, Michelle, 
~andra, 



& Sara 

Looking for a chance to move in the diploma and your drive to succeed. See your Marine Corps Officer 
fast lane? Then check out Marine If you've got what it takes. you Selection Officer when he visits your Corps Aviation. The training is su­could be at the controls of anything campus or call him, at perb. The challenges are ~nique. from a Cobra to a Harrier to the the number listed Your ticket to fly is your college hottest thing flying, the F-18 Hornet. below. today. ~~~~~ 
• 
, Tbe Fett: Tbe Prood. 
Ca1>t. Dennis Hallahan will be at the La Fortune Center, O'Hara Lounge, tomorrow . and Wednesday from 10:00 to 2:00. Stop by or calll-800-945-3088. 
--~~ ~---------~--------­



Attend the Abbott Laboratories' Scientific Career Fair and meet with managers to discuss Abbott's exceptional career environment for scientists. The diverse products we develop enable us to offer positions in a wide range of scientific disciplines. We are committed to being the best through vigorous R&D invest­ment, and through selecting and developing scientific talent at all levels. 
We will be discussing our current openings for: 
PH.D Biochemists Molecular Biologists Protein Biochemists Organic Chemists Research Analytical Chemists Clinical Research Associates Research Pharmacists Research Microbiologists 
MASTER'S DEGREE Biochemists Cellular/Molecular Biologists 
Microbiologists/Immunologists Organic Chemists Analytical Chemists Clinical Research Associates 

SCIENTIFIC 




CAREER FAIR 
Friday, Nov. 13th 5:30pm-8ptn and Saturday, Nov. 14th 10am-1pm 
Home Infusion Pharmacists Regulatory Affairs Specialists 
BACHELOR'S DEGREE R&D Technicians Manufacturing Technicians Quality Technicians Incoming Quality Assurance Technicians Analytical Chemists Clinical Research Associates Software Quality Assurance Technicians Research Pharmacists Home Infusion Pharmacists Customer Technical Support Specialists 
The Career Fair will be held at our corporate headquarters, located 30 miles north of Chicago, off Interstate 94 at Buckley Rd. (Route 137). After exiting 94, follow Buckley Rd. east to Waukegan Rd. (Route 43). Proceed south on 
· 
Waukegan Rd. and enter the facility at Gate l. Please be sure to bring plenty of resumes. If you're unable to attend, send a resume to: Ann Ribbens, Corporate Staffing, Dept. SOH2, Abbott Laboratories, One Abbott Park Rd., Abbott Park, IL ·60064. Principals only. Abbott is an Affirmative Action Employer/ Smoke-Free Environment. 
ABBOTT LABORATORIES 

Quality Health Care Worldwide 
1888-1992 
page 5 

Monday, November 2,1991 The Observer 


ive Amer1can nuns ki 
iberia Ten-year 
MONROVIA, Liberia (AP) ­The archbishop of Monrovia led hundreds of people Sunday in praying for five slain American nuns whose bodies lay unre­covered in a battle zone four miles from the center of this besieged capital. 
Also Sunday, two rockets hit homes about a half-mile from an airfield, killing a mother and her 5-year-old son. Six others were wounded. 
The massacre of the nuns recalled the killings of four American missionaries in El Salvador in 1980, slayings that prompted an international outcry. 
In this western African country, rebels loyal to Charles Taylor have been battling for control for nearly three years, overrunning all but Monrovia. 
Taylor invaded from Ivory Coast in December 1989 to overthrow President Samuel Doe, who later was captured and slain by a rival rebel fac­tion. A seven-nation West African force was sent to Liberia in 1990 to try to halt the civil war. 
The peacekeepers drove the rebels from the capital, but Taylor's fighters recently mounted another siege. The rebels now hold suburbs around Monrovia. 
Archbishop Michael Francis blamed rebels for killing the nuns, saying, "They call them­selves freedom fighters, but they kill innocent people .... We pray for those liars." 

l.Jfcoming Events 
WEDNESDAY. NOVEMBER 4 Lecture 


LYNDA BRAYER Founder, Society of St. Ives, a Catholic legal resource center for human rights in Jerusalem 
''HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE LAW OF BELLIGERENT OCCUPATION: ISRAELI PRACTICES ON THE WEST BANK" 
4:00p.m. Hesburgh Ctr. Auditorium 
Everyone Welcome 
INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAl 



IJ)J(fl ~N~!S~o;:~?!~ 
Beeker CPA Review Course Invites you to attend a presentation on 
II How to prepare for the CPA ExamII 

Monday, November 4th, 1992 LaFortune Center-Montgomery Theatre 5:00p.m. 
Pizza and Pop will be served 
Drawing for a $50 Gift Certificate from Notre Dame Book Store 
for further info., call: 
277-4366 

He did not specifically identify Taylor's fighters, although he previously said Taylor's men control the area where the nuns died. 
The Roman Catholic prelate spoke to hundreds of people gathered in Sacred Heart Cathedral to mourn the nuns, two of whom were slain after leaving their convent to try to rescue a wounded child on Oct. 
20. Three others were last seen by a parish priest Oct. 22. Nearly two weeks later, it was still too dangerous to recover their bodies. 
Taylor insisted his men do not control the area around the convent. There are several armed factions in the area, in-eluding rebels opposed to Tay­lor. 
At the Vatican, Pope John Paul II said he hoped the nuns' deaths might somehow inspire "all who can influence the fate of that martyred country" to stop the fighting in Liberia, a nation founded by freed Ameri­can slaves. 
The United States had close ties with Doe's regime, giving it more than a half billion dollars in aid, more than any other country in sub-Saharan Africa. In return, the United States had a huge Voice of America broad­casting site in Liberia. 
All the slain nuns were white; all were from Illinois; and all were in their 50s and 60s. They were members of the Adorers of the Blood of Christ order. 
Tajik rebels continue fight against democratic coalition 
DUSHANBE, Tajikistan (AP) ­The presidents of most former Soviet republics have limousines. Tajikistan's Akbar­shah Iskandarov has traded up to an armored personnel car­rier. 
Ten days ago, rebel gunmen rode into Dushanbe on heavy trucks and briefly seized gov­ernment buildings in an at­tempt to depose Iskandarov. He escaped, but no one here ex­pects the rebels to stop fighting. 
"If this conflagration is not stopped soon, it will engulf all of Central Asia and the entire Asian part of the former Soviet Union," warns Davlat Hodon­azarov, Iskandarov's chief polit­ical adviser. 
The Tajik warfare -among the worst in the former Soviet Union -pits an alliance of rebel groups against the ruling coalition of democratic and Is­lamic parties, which forced Ta­jikistan's former Communist leader from power last month. 
The rebels withdrew to their strongholds in the countryside after their attack on Oct. 24-25. But the capital of the impover­ished, mostly Muslim republic still swarms with gunmen. 
Russian soldiers guard the airport and TV station. Tajik 
militiamen with grenades dan­gling from their vests ride atop the president's APC. Private guards loyal to various political, religious and criminal leaders careen through the streets with rifles sticking out of car win­dows. 
Everyone seems to have an AK-47. No one has control. 
"There are too many guns. Every idiot has a gun," said Rustam Vakhobov, a 29-year­old factory worker. 
Like most ordinary residents, Vakhobov stayed indoors while the rebels were defeated in fierce street fighting that took an estimated 500 lives. 
Vakhobov returned to work at a candy factory last week, as schools and stores began to re­open across this city of 600,000 people. He scurries each day to get home before dark, when sniper fire erupts and tracers light the sky. A curfew keeps people off the streets after 10 p.m. 
The restaurant in the central Hotel Tajikistan stayed closed until Thursday, when Juma Buidokov, a warlord from the Pamir Mountains, got hungry. With four rifle-toting youths at his side, he declared that lunch would be served. It was. 
'])o you J'ee{? 
Chicago recording artist
,


Danny Lerman 

as heard on WVPE 88.1, WSMK 99.1, WHFB 99.9 Brings his Chicago Jazz and Soul show to the: 
Madison Oyster Bar 
Featuring muslc from his steel warehouse records release 
"Vo You :fee{?" 

Wednesday, November 4Jh, 8-10:30 p.m. 
421 E. Madison, South Bend 


starvation continues 
MAQUEZE, Mozambique (AP} -Through shimmers of heat rising from the scorching sand, hundreds of women and their starving children descended on this parched village for their monthly Red Cross rations. 
The distribution of corn meal and beans went smoothly, de­spite the desperate conditions. But then it should. Aid groups have been delivering food for nine years. 
Such scenes have become permanent flxtures in Mozam· bique, where millions have survived on donated food since 1983 in an international relie operation that continues to ex­pand with no end in sight. 
"These people would be starving without this help," said Christophe Wieser. who distributes food in Maqueze, 125 miles north of Maputo, the capital. "But they've become dependent on food aid. They think it's normal for people to come and give them food." 
Both the successes and limi­tations of aid are illustrated by the Mozambique relief effort. Countless lives have been saved, but the handouts have created a society increasingly unable to feed itself. 
Mozambique, on Africa's southeastern coast, has more than enough fertile land for its 15 million people, most o whom live in small farming vil­lages. But a 16-year civil war and the worst drought of this century left more than 3 million people wholly dependent on food aid. 
Aid workers say long-term relief has robbed some people of the initiative to fend for themselves. 
Roads, communications, schools and hospitals are in shambles and the devastated economy has no hope of pro­ducing enough goods to sup­port the population. The $1 bil­lion in foreign aid Mozambique receives each year accounts for a startling two-thirds of the en­tire economy. 
Even so, the aid is not enough. 
"Conditions have been getting worse each year," said Simiao Banze, a health worker born in a village just outside Maqueze. "Our cattle were stolen in the war. Now there is no rain and we have no seeds to plant." 
Drought has forced many peasants to leave their land for the cities, pushing the need for aid to an all-time high. Even · rain is plentiful this year, there will be fewer farmers growing food. 

page 6 The Observer Monday, November 2, 1992 

Rudy 
continued from page 1 
"In the very seemingly small victory from the general pub­lic's point of view it is more of a victory than Joe Montana's throwing four touchdown passes," said Anspaugh. 
"By setting his goals, he discovers all sorts of wonderful things along the way. By the time he gets on the field, anything else that happens is only additional icing on the cake. It's not a sports movie for that reason." said Anspaugh. 
The crew had an accelerated prep time, and is working un­der an abbreviated filming schedule, said Anspaugh. They wanted to begin on Oct.l, with an eight-week prep period, but officially beginning on Oct. 25 gives them only 3 to 4 weeks to prepare the movie. 
Anspaugh and Pizzo, once college roommates, have been working together for 25 years, and they have a shared interest in the story of Rudy. "David has a marvelous ability to re­suscitate scenes," said Pizzo. "Angelo has a wonderful econ­omy in his writing. He writes about family. community and commitment, which are impor­tant things to write about. An­gelo's scripts could never be accused of leaving one empty. They are very rich," said Anspaugh. 
The University has been very cooperative, said producer Rob Fried. "Everything has been very positive," said Fried. 
"The support the University has given us has been way be­yond our expectations. We would not have made the movie without the permission of the University because the school is 


Justice 
continued from page 1 
tive or negative feedback. 
If approved, the recommen­dation goes on to the Judicial Conference of the United States and if it is successful, it contin­ues on to the Supreme Court. If the Supreme Court is in favor of the amendment, it must then be submitted to Congress by May 1st. and if passed by December 1st, it is made a law. 
The meeting also commemo­rated the 25th anniversary of the drafting of the appellate procedure rules by the late Bernard Ward. a former pro­fessor of law at Notre Dame. Ward changed the structure of the courts of appeals by sepa­rating the appellate from trial rules. 
The meeting's importance is reflected in the rules which it seeks to change, according to Mooney, "The rules of proce­dure are the key to every citi­zen's access to justice and fair treatment by the courts." 
The meeting resulted in rec­ommendations on over fifteen rules, which. according to Mooney is "very unusual." Mooney stated that, "It was a very productive meeting and we ~ere honored to host it." 
Correction 
The headline ·on a story in Friday's edition of The Ob­server was incorrect. Statewide polls indicate that Gov. Evan Bayh leads Republican challenger Lindley Pearson in the governor's race. eThe Observer regrets the error. 
an integral part of the movie. The officials and the university has given us everything we can ask for and more," said Pizzo. 
For instance, they have sup­plied a trainer for Astin at Lof­tus Center, the use of facilities, and admittance to shoot essen­tially wherever they want to, said Pizzo. He called the Uni­versity's allowing 5-7 minutes of shooting at half-time at two football games "a gift, an en­dorsement," and noted that the Notre Dame band even short­ened their half-time perfor­mance for the shooting. 
Pizzo referred to the recent cartoon in The Observer criti­cizing Rudy crew interference on campus, saying, "I didn't think it was a very fair criti­cism." 
"We have a crew that is very respectful of the life at this University and we want to dis­rupt the community as little as possible. To anyone we've in­convenienced in any way, we apologize. The ultimate gift we will give back will be something you'll appreciate for a long time," said Pizzo. 


KKK auction has high bids; Black leader reacts in anger 
FREMONT, Mich. (AP) ­Hundreds of people, from col­lectors to the curious, showed up Saturday to bid on Ku Klux Klan memorabilia at an event a civil rights leader blasted as reminiscent of a slave auction. 

Among the 250 items offered were stained cotton robes and hoods, as well as aging docu­ments and letters from a now­defunct Klan chapter that oper­ated in the Newaygo County area in the 1920s. 
"It reminds me of the auction of the slaves," said Gloria White Gardner, executive director of the Urban League of Muskegon County. ''I'm offended because my ancestors lived through the reign of terror by this organization." 
Gardner and Ted Davis, who are black, tried unsuccessfully to obtain a court order halting the auction. 
On Saturday, people bid as much as $1,000 for robes and hoods. The framed charter of the Newaygo County Klan No. 29 of the Invisible Empire of the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, dated Sept. 9, 1925, sold for $3,100. 
.The items were found earlier this month in an attic at a 130­year-old family farm. Also of­fered in separate auctions were farm equipment and antiques. But it was the Klan memorabilia that drew hundreds of people to the barn where it was displayed. 
"All the emphasis is put on the Klan stuff when there's so much more to this farm," said Louise Slager. "I wish we had just donated the stuff." 
The material can be traced to Slager's uncle, Ledford Ander­son, secretary-treasurer in 1925-26 of the Klan's chapter in Fremont, which is about 40 miles northeast of Grand Rapids. 
Anderson died in 1986, and his sister-in-law, Jean Ander­son, recently decided to give up the farm. 


Millionaire on trial for murder 
ATLANTA (AP) -A Florida millionaire faces trial this week in the 1987 slaying of his es­tranged wife, who was shot to death at her home hours be­fore a scheduled hearing on the legality of the couple's post­nuptial agreement. 
Prosecutors say James Sulli­van hired a hit man by tele­phone to kill his wife, Lita Sulli­van, because he feared losing his property in a divorce set­tlement. Sullivan, 51, of Palm Beach, Fla. made his millions from an inherited Macon liquor distributorship. 
Mrs. Sullivan, 35, was killed Jan. 16, 1987, at her posh At­lanta home by a rose-carrying gunman posing as a delivery man. 



Investment Banking Opportunities at 
First Boston 

First Boston, a global investment banking firm headquartered in New York, will be recruiting Notre Dame graduates for its fmancial analyst program. This t'wo-year program offers individuals a unique opportunity to gain experience in the investment banking indu~try. Individuals with all academic backgrounds are encouraged to JOm our Firm. Positions are available in the Investment Banking Department in New York and in various Regional Offices. 
All students are cordially invited to join First Boston representativ~s for an introduction to the firm and the analyst program on: 
Wednesday, November 4, 1992 Foster Room La Fortune Student Center 7:00p.m. 
Interview date: 
January 28, 1993 

For further information and inquiries, please feel free to contact: 
Greg Dingens Investment Banking (312) 750-3071 

i{:l~~ FIRST BosToN 
-a memher of the C'i Fint Hostol\ Croup 


Shooting some pool 
Ross Kubycheck spends his afternoon playing pool in the Gorch Game Room of LaFortune on account of the miserable weather outside. 
1ne uoserver 


Airlines worldwide suffer multibillion-dollar losses 
GENEVA (AP) -Airlines around the world are suffering their third successive year of multibillion-dollar losses in their worst-ever performance, the International Air Transport Association said Sunday. 
Hardest hit are U.S. airlines, battered by fare wars and a de­cline in domestic travel, said Guenther Eser, the industry group's director general. 
"The situation domestically in the United States for the airline industry is terrible," said Eser. "Half of all our losses of the 213 (lATA member) airlines are practically the five, six big airlines in the United States." 
A sign of the world industry's hard times is that airlines from a number of countries have parked 900 planes in the deserts of the U.S. Southwest, where the dry climate will keep them from deteriorating until they are needed again, he said. Some of the planes have been sent to Arizona straight off the production line. 
Many airlines also are drasti­cally cutting the size of their staffs, he said. Some 52,000 people, or 3.4 percent of all staffs, lost their jobs in 1991, and that number was expected to be much higher this year. Total figures were not yet avail­able. 
"I don't have to tell you that the air transport industry is do­ing very badly," Eser told re­porters at lATA headquarters in Geneva ahead of the associa­tion 's annual meeting in Mon­treal on Monday and Tuesday. "It's going through its worst­ever time." 
lATA, whose member airlines carry 98 percent of all scheduled international traffic, said in its annual report that a slow recovery began this year, but Eser said he didn't expect a solid turnaround until 1994. 
Eser forecast that lATA members would lose at least $2.5 billion on their interna­tional operations this year. This comes on top of a record loss of $4 billion during 1991, when the Gulf War curbed air travel. In 1990, which was affected by the build up to the war, losses were $2.7 billion. 
Train crash in Pakistan kills 

Happy 21st 

and wounds as many as 75 

but later changed the figure to 7 5 killed or injured. They did not give a breakdown. 
According to Pakistan's state­run news agency, the government suspended the as­sistant station master at the tiny rail stop of Reti, where the accident occured, after he fled the scene. It wasn't immediately known why he fled. 
An initial investigation indi­cated that an erroneous signal may have sent the passenger train barreling down a track blocked by the parked freight train, officials said. 
Railway officials said they didn't know how many pas­sengers were on board the 15­car express train. They said the first two cars were reduced to twisted metal and a third car was derailed. 
Witnesses said villagers, many of them awakened by the sound of churning metal, ran to the site with blankets and ban­dages. 
About 400 soldiers helped ambulance workers pull dead and wounded from the wreck­age, said Maj. Abdul Chishti, an army spokesman. 


Firm never tested blood 
PARIS (AP) -A major French immunological firm exported blood products in 1985 for use by hemophiliacs without testing them for the AIDS-causing HIV virus, according to a French newspaper report. 
The exports took place at a time when France's national blood bank knowingly used contaminated blood for trans­fusions, which left 1,200 he­mophiliacs infected with the HIV virus. Nearly 300 have died. 
The Merieux Institute, a Lyon firm that manufactures vac­cines and other immunological products. exported some 55 million blood products for he­mophiliacs in the 1980s to Ar­gentina, Greece, Italy, Portugal, West Germany, north Africa and the Middle East, the newspaper Le Monde reported in its weekend edition. 
The company used primary materials, mostly imported from the United States, without testing them for AIDS or treat­ing them to kill the HIV virus, Le Monde said. It said the com­pany acted with the knowledge of the Health Ministry. 
Health Minister Bernard Kouchner, contacted in New York by the French news agency AFP, expressed indig­nation at Merieux's reported activities but said he was not surprised. 
"There must be a discussion between doctors and health authorities on the administra­tive, moral and political re­sponsibilities 1Jf each," Kouch­ner said. 
"This all unfortunately con­firms that it was indispensable to reinforce the state's control over not only transfusion, but over the security of the health structure in general," he said. 
In 1985 alone, Merieux ex­ported 3.2 million non-treated blood products, even as it was exploring the possibility of de­contaminating blood samples through heating, the newspa­per said. But Merieux did not subsequently adopt heat treat­ment of blood imports, the pa­per said. 
The paper did not claim that any of the products the Merieux Institute used were in 
fact  contaminated,  but  
suggested  the  firm  was  
negligent in not checking.  

Le Monde did not give any sources for its report, although it said the head of the firm, Alain Merieux, acknowledged the facts. 
"In 1985, serological pro­cesses were not carried out concerning the AIDS virus on non-heated material," the pa­per quoted Merieux as saying. "In hindsight, we may have been a little slow in taking a decision." 
We Love You! 
John, Bill, Katie, and all 

SUKKUR, Pakistan (AP) -An express train packed with sleeping passengers slammed into a parked freight train on Sunday, and as many as 7 5 people were killed or injured, officials said. 
The government of southern Sindh province ordered an in­quiry into the predawn crash, about 75 miles north of the in­terior city of Sukkur. 
Officials initially said they be­lieved 150 people were killed, 




Notre Dame AIDS Awareness 
Sister Ethnye Kennedy from AIDS Assist will speak about off~ campus volunteer opportunities. 
All members are asked to attend ~ and all new members are welcome! 

page ~ I he Observer Monday, November ~. 1~~~ 
~~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~~ 
ELECTION '92 



Women make strides in '92 campaign 
By JULIE BARRETI 
Assistant News Editor 
It's been dubbed "The Year of Women" in American politics, and for a good reason: Nearly 2,500 women are running for state and local offices around the country in a record turnout. 
While critics argue that many of the women candidates will not win, those who succeed will be paving the way for political and policy initiatives that could change the scope of the Ameri­can political system. 
"To really change the system, we need to put more women in power," said Ava Collins, direc­tor of the Gender Studies pro­gram at Notre Dame. "I don't think issues can change until more women are elected, and the amount we have now is not enough." 
This year's presidential elec­tions will also witness a notice­able gender gap, with women voters considered more likely to vote for Gov. Bill Clinton, ac­cording to Patrick Pierce, chair of political science at Saint Mary's College. 
Clinton's vocal support of a woman's right to abortion and to legislation like the Family Leave bill have been influential in gaining support from women voters, Pierce said. 
He added that many Republi­can women are turning to Clin­ton out of anger over the lack of support for women's issues in their party's platform. 
But some women who are voting for President Bush could be doing so out of distrust of Clinton and disbelief that he will implement the changes he has promised, said Suzanne Marilley, assistant professor of government at NO. 
"Many Republican women, candidates and voters, may feel torn between their loyalty to the Republican party and their loyalty to women's issues strongly supported by the Democratic Party," she said. "It's a tough choice to have to make." 
The breakthrough of women candidates has been dramatic at the Congressional level, with 11 women running for the Se­nate and 106 running for the House of Representatives. Only two women ran for the Senate in 1988, while just 69 sought House seats. 
The majority of women can­didates this year are Democrats, which Pierce at­tributes to the party's tradi­tional support of individual, mi­nority and women's rights. 
Although their success won't be determined until after the election, some polls have been quite favorable towards women newcomers. 

Saint Mary's re-elects Bush in mock contest 
By EMILY HAGE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College student re-elected President George Bush in a mock election held last Thursday and Friday, ac­cording to Laurie Donohoe, president of the Political Science Club. 
Bush received 56 percent of the total vote, Clinton 32 per­cent, and Perot 12 percent in the mock election sponsored by the Board of Governance and conducted by the Political Science department. 
"I expected the results to be a little closer, but it is a conserva­tive campus," said Donohoe. 
By class, the voting broke down into the following per­centages: 
•Freshmen: 
57 percent voted for Bush, 31 percent for Clin­ton, and 12 percent for Perot; 

•Sophomores: 59 percent voted for Bush, 31 percent for Clinton, and 10 percent for Perot; 

•Juniors: 
59 percent voted for Bush, 30 percent for Clinton, 11 percent for Perot; 

•Seniors: 
51 percent voted for Bush, 35 percent for Clinton, and 13 percent for Perot. 


Donohoe said that the low turnout -just 34 percent of the student body -reflects the voter apathy of the student body on campus. 
She added that many Saint Mary's students are not regis­tered to vote, even though the college sponsored a voter regis­tration drive this fall. 
"The surprising thing is how large some of the poll leads are for some women candidates such as Carol Moseley Braun," Pierce said. 

At press time, Braun held a significant lead against attorney Richard Williamson in the Illi­nois U.S. Senate race. 
Collins attributes the explo­sion of women candidates to their increasing need to re­spond to and support issues that have become highly politi­cal and divisive -family leave, sexual harassment and abor­tion, to name a few. 
The Clarence Thomas-Anita Hill hearings and the Navy's sexual harassment scandal at Tailhook have also raised awareness about women's is­sues on the political front, she added. 
The Senate confirmation hearings in particular may have spurred a revitalization of feminism in America, according to Gloria-Jean Masciarotte, assistant professor of English at Notre Dame. 
"Women got lazy over the years and thought they had done everything they needed to achieve equality," she said. 
"But the Anita Hill case showed what changes were re­ally made and that women haven't made the social, eco­nomic, political and judicial changes they need to make." 
"Seeing all those white male politicians with little or no un­derstanding of sexual harass­ment holding the hearings, the Anita Hill case also showed that women do not have a represen­tative place in the regular structure of the U.S. govern­ment," Masciarotte added. 
Having more women repre­sentatives in the government would reshape Congress's agenda and policy decision­making process, according to Pierce. 
He said research indicates that there is a difference in the way women behave in policy­making positions. First, women politicians tend to focus on different, more domestic issues. 
Secondly, women in elected positions have a tendency to support more feminist, liberal positions. 
A recent survey illustrates these claims. The study by the Center for the American Woman in Politics (CAWP) and printed in Ms. Magazine showed that women legislators are 50 percent more likely to support a pro-woman bill than their male colleagues. 
The survey also indicated that 75 percent of male state legisla­tors said the presence of female colleagues made them more aware of the way legislative is­sues affect women. 
Perot attacks Bush, Clinton on economy 
LONG BEACH, Calif. (AP) ­Ross Perot sharpened his attacks on President Bush and Bill Clinton on Sunday with a 30-minute ad that derides Republican and Democratic economic policies. 
After weeks of training his sights almost exclusively on Bush, Perot turned to Clinton, criticizing the state of Arkansas' economy and Clinton's leadership as its governor. 
"If you look at every single factor in his 12 years in Arkansas, you'll realize that when you're at the bottom o everything, there's no place to go but up," Perot told about 10,000 people at a rally at the Long Beach Arena. 
The theme was repeated in the 30-minute ad, "Deep Voodoo, Chicken Feathers and The American Dream," atrmg Sunday night on ABC and NBC. 
The attack departs from Perot's earlier statement that Clinton's record in Arkansas was "irrelevant" to his bid for the White House. 

Bush now faces trust quest1on 
WASHINGTON (AP) -For months, President Bush has worked to turn the campaign his way on a simple, funda­mental question: "Who do you trust?" Now, as Election Day nears, the president is being put to the very test he hoped would topple Bill Clinton. 
"It was President Bush who tried to make trust the No. 1 is­sue, more important than the economy or change," says Duke University presidential scholar James David Barber. 
"It's a perfectly reasonable strategy, but as always, these things can backfire." Barber said. "If he wants to raise questions about trust, he should be prepared to answer them." 
At issue is the president's ac­count of his role in the Reagan administration's decision to swap arms for hostages with Iran. When the subject came up 

NO, SMC will vote at four polling places 
By SARAH DORAN 
News Writer 
When the polls open early Tuesday morning, more than 1,500 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be voting in four locations across both campuses, according to Mary Ann Ryback of the St. Joseph County Voter Registration Of­fice. Voting places will close at 6p.m. 
More than 550 students were registered through the efforts of student government, according to Chris Setti, political awareness commissioner. 
The four precincts in the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community are: Portage 1 at gate 10 of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center (J.A.C.C.); Portage lA at Au­gusta Hall, Saint Mary's; Portage lB. also at gate 10 of the J.A.C.C.; and Clay 2 at Little Flower Church, 54191 Iron­wood Rd. 
There are 966 students regis­tered for Portage 1; 900 for Portage lA; 524 for Portage lB. Clay 2 includes 1,033 voters from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and surrounding areas. 
Students are voting in precincts according to their places of residence. 
•The 
following residence halls vote in Portage 1: Alumni, Badin, Brownson, Carroll, Dil­lon, Fisher, Howard, Lewis, Lyons, Morrissey, Pangborn, Sorin and Walsh. 

•
Also voting in Portage 1 are Notre Dame's: Architecture Building, Columba Hall, Corby Hall, Decio Hall, Fatima Retreat Center, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 


Holy Cross House, Interna­

tiona! Peace House, Mission House, Moreau Seminary, Old College, Presbytery, Retreat House, ROTC Building, St. Joseph Hall, Student Health Center and Wilson Commons will vote in Portage 1. 
•James 
Hall and the Dujarie House at Holy Cross College will vote in Portage 1. 

•All 
of Saint Mary's College will vote in precinct Portage lA. 

•The 
following Notre Dame residence halls will vote in Portage lB: Breen-Phillips, Ca­vanaugh, Farley, Keenan, St. Edwards, Stanford and Zahm. The Fire House will also vote in Portage lB. 

•The 
following Notre Dame student residences will vote in Clay 2: Fischer Graduate Resi­dences, Planner, Grace, Knott, O'Hara Grace Townhouses, Pasquerilla East, Pasquerilla West and Siegfried. 


in 1988, then-Vice President Bush said he was "not in the loop" and didn't know some of Reagan's top aides were vehe­mently opposed to the swap. 
Now, that account appears at odds with some new material on the subject. 
First came a memo revealing the disbelief of former Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger when he read Bush's "not in the loop" remarks. Then on Friday, in a second indictment of Weinberger for his role in the scandal, special prosecutor Lawrence Walsh made public a note in which Weinberger wrote that Bush was at the table when he and then-Secretary of State George Shultz voiced their objections. 
"George Shultz + I opposed ­Bill Casey, Ed Meese + VP favored -as did Poindexter," said Weinberger's note. 
WHERE TO VOTE 
ACC GAte 10 Church Hall 
Little Flower 

Portage 18 CLAY2 
Breen Phillips Hall Cavanaugh Hall
Fischer Grad Res. 

Farley HallFlanner Hall Fire HouseGrace Hall Keenan HallKnott Hall St. Edwards HallO"Hara-Grace Stanford HallPasquerilla East Zahm Hall
Pasquerilla West Siegfried Hall 
That appears to contradict the account Bush gave The Washington Post in 1987: "If I'd have sat there and heard George Shultz and Cap express it (opposition) strongly, maybe I would have had a stronger view. But when you don't know something, it's hard to react. ... We were not in the loop." 
After the new indictment on Friday, the president changed his story a bit. 
"I did know of the objections," Bush said Friday for the first time, adding, "but I didn't know how strongly." 
The subject dominated much of a Larry King interview show with Bush on Friday night and put Bush in an unusual posi­tion, because in virtually every speech, Bush lays out a trust test: "You've got to tell the truth if you want to be president of the United States." 
ACC Gate 10 
Portage 1 
Alumni Hall Mission House Architecture Bldg Moreau Seminary Badin Hall Morrissey Hall Brownson Hall Old College Carroll Hall Pangborn Hall Columba Hall Presbytery Corby Hall Retreat House Decio Hall ROTC Building Dillon Hall Sorin Hall Fatima Retreat St. Joseph Hall Fisher Hall Student Health Hesburgh Center Walsh hall Holy Cross House Wilson Commons Howard Hall International Peace Lewis Hall Lyons Hall 

r-------------~--~----------------------------------------~~-------------~----------~------~----------~ 
.. , 

Mondav. Novemoer 2.1992 1he uoserver page 9 

ELECTION '92 


B~sh needs new Congress to 


ON THE ISSUES 
enactagendaforchange 
Where Bush, Clinton and Perot stand 
By JAY TOWN basically proof that we need a new Guest Columnist Congress, not a new President. 

Economy

Tomorrow, Notre Dame and Saint While Perot may be a success in the 
Bush: Proposes c_apital gains tax reduction, $5,000 tax credit for first-timeMary's students will make a choice. A business world, Ross would be quick to home buyers and mcreased federal investment in research and choice that involves the entire world and find out that 'Ross is not Boss' in Wash­
development. it is our duty to make the right choice. ington. His total lack of experience in 
Cli~ton: Plans to _ease federal loan refjulations to provide credit for small The right choice is George Bush. public office is complete liability to the bus1ness. Favors mv~st ment tax credits to encourage investment. 
In 12 years, as vice president and citizens of this country. Ross -try the president, Bush has presided over the city council first. most significant events in recent history. Furthermore, we don't need the pain 
Most importantly, communism has fallen, involved in the Perot economic program. or better yet -been defeated. Come now, let us set our sights on a 

· Education 

It was George Bush who fought the President, not a portfolio. 
Bush: Proposes 22 percent increase ill Pell Grant funding and favors aggression of tyrants. It was he who has vo~chers to allow parents to choose where to send their children. Clinton: Pla~s to make loans available to all students, to be paid back
paved the road to peace in the Middle The fact that Perot essentially has no through serv1ce or payroll deductions. Proposes fully funding Head StartEast as his leadership and character record puts him one up on Bill Clinton, 
and WIC. poised leaders to regain peace talks. who shamefully does. Arkansas has the 
· · · Perot: Proposes the esta~lishment of a comprehensive preschool He has sent Congress enterprise zone worst environmental standards of any 
program and the reallocation of research money to implement 
programs.

proposals to fight poverty in inner cities state. In fact, from 1981-1991, the vio­and restore America's economic future lent crime rate in Arkansas rose 95 and is working to help small business. ' percent. 
In 1990, he sent Congress the most Under Clinton's leadership, Arkansas is 

Defense 

thought-out education proposal the U.S. 47th in per capita income, 47th in :Sush: Favors $18 billion reduction over four years, coupled with has ever seen, and the democratically­education spending, 5th highest in adult 1~c~ea~ed fe~ eral support for research and development and $7.1 
controlled Congress sent it back to the illiteracy rate, 50th in police spending 
billion 1n ass1stance to help former defense workers and communities President with virtually a quarter of when violent crime in his state is the 
dependent on defense. Clinton: Pr?poses ~60 billion in defense cuts, to be reinvested into
what the country needed to implement highest in the country. 
the programs. Is this the record of a man that should esteem himself to the highest office in It is very evident that Bush has pro­the land? 
po~ed a future for this country and very The Wall Street Journal says that Clin­
Health Care 

eVIdent that Democrats in Congress are ton's economic plan "just doesn't add 
content with the status quo. Isn't it they up." You'll be happy to know that if you 
~ush: Reform plan ensures every working American access to health 1n~urance th~ough t~an_sferable $3_.750 tax credit. Opposes governmental
who keep echoing change? or your parents make over $63,000 a 
pn_ce re~ulatlon, rat1omng and national healt_h in.surance proposals.
And yes, George Bush did raise taxes, year, you are rich, according to Clinton's 
Chnton.Propos~s t~ co~trol costs by changmg Incentives, reducingbut let us examine the choices. He had plan. paperwork an~ flght1~g Insurance industry. Plans to guarantee universal access to bas1c med1cal coverage.
four. He could have repealed the Gramm­Rudman bill. He could have cut discre­Franklin Roosevelt said, "The President tionary spending which involves pro­is the moral leader of the world." Bill grams relating to infrastructure. He Clinton is not the moral leader of his own 
could have made cuts in the defense bud­household, his own state, much less the 
Taxes

get, but the U.S. was going to war. rest of the world. It is time for change. The Democrats 
Bush: Propose~ $50~ inc~ease per child in personal tax exemptions, $5,000 tax cred1t for f1rst-t1me home buyers and deduction of interest
Or he could work with Congress and echo cries for a president that will work on student loans. 
sign a bill that they concocted, beheld, with Congress. How about, for a change, 
Clinton: Will raise taxes. on those m~king over $200,000 a year and 
and legislated -a bill to raise taxes. In a we get a Congress that will work with the end tax breaks for Amen?an compames that move operations ab~oad. ,Plans to a!low middle class taxpayers to decide between a 
time when the economy wasn't so good president. The president leads this coun­
and the nation was going to war, Bush try, at home and abroad, and that leader made a tough choice. Leaders make should be George Bush. tough choices. 
Now let us examine the records of Bill Town is a member of Notre Dame's Clinton and Ross Perot. Ross Perot is College Republicans. 

Clinton offers new hope amid despair 
By ANDREW HOLMGREN The answer is not trickle pay off their college loans by a down, voodoo economics, not two-year service period to their
ANDREW RUNKLE and 
"tax and spend, but a real community, improves the
CHRIS SETTI n 
economic plan. Bill Clinton has overall skills of the nation'sGuest Columnists 
such a plan. work force and returns hope and commitment to our youngThe 1992 election is upon us The Bush campaign has im­people and communities.
and it is time to make the most 
plied that Clinton intends to tax

important decision of the next 
everyone more, which is simply When John Kennedy voiced a
four years. If we want to re­
not true. Yes, Clinton has call to service at Notre Dame in 
store America to its former 
proposed increased taxes, a 1961, and when Franklin Roo­
glory, to instill in its people a 
"fair share" on those families sevelt spoke for liberty in a 
sense of security and hope, 
making more than $200,000 speech here in 1935, the Notrethen it is Bill Clinton and AI 
and individuals making more Dame community was sum­Gore that we must choose to 
than $150,000. moned to something greater.
lead our country in the next 
But his tax proposal also fo­Another great Democratcentury. 
cuses on removing inequities spoke here recently, and he
During the last 12 years, the 
from the U.S. tax system by spoke to us of his commitment
American people have been 
giving tax relief to the middle to "the idea that, as Kennedyforgotten by the government. 
class. said, here on earth, God's workWhile the rich got richer due to must truly be our own."
trickle-down economics, the 
And yes, Clinton proposes

middle class and poor gave 
spending increases, but he also He spoke of life, family and more to the government while 
suggests cuts in government service, and called upon us to
receiving less in return. 
bureaucracy, defense and an find a renewed sense of com­
By creating more high-wage 
estimated 2 trillion by 2000 in munity, to begin pulling to­
jobs through wise, ground­
savings from a reformed health gether our fraying social fabric
breaking investments and by 
care system. while always appreciating the
cutting unnecessary govern­We need to invest in the "wonderful diversity of the 
ment spending, the Democratic 
livelihood of our children and American tapestry."
ticket will put America on the ensure that a good education As in 1932, we do face trou­track to recovery. 
and adequate medical care are bled times. But we also see an­
By cleaning up the environ­
not privileges, but basic rights. other governor speaking of a
ment, assuring quality health 
That is why they believe in failed Republican administra­care and education for all and establishing a comprehensive tion, of a hollow man, a new
reducing crime, Clinton and 
national health care plan for all Hoover. We see a governor
Gore will restore hope in all 
Americans. holding forth a hand of hope inAmericans. 
the midst of growing despair. 
Our country faces so many 
That is why Clinton will guar­

challenges in the next four 
antee a quality education for all Roosevelt's words. Kennedy's
years, not the least among 
and will give every American ideals -these can live on withthese our failing economy. We an opportunity to go to college, a vote for Bill Clinton. 
need leaders who are commit­
regardless of his or her finan­

ted to making government work 
cial situation. The National Holmgren, Runkle and Setti
for all, not just for the richest 
Service Trust Fund, a program are officers of Notre Dame'stwo percent. 
that allows college graduates to College Democrats. 
P~r<?t: ~reposes f_reemQ credit and stimulating investment. Favors elim1nat1on of cap1tal ga1ns tax for small businesses. 
1 

JOb-pr?duc mg public programs. Would re-train military personnel.Perot. Proposes substantial defense cuts in Europe. Favors forcingGermany and Japan to share the defense burden in Europe and Asia. 
Perot: Proposes institution of cost containment and prevention programFavors est~blishment of a national health board to oversee reforms and· cost con ta1nment. 
children s tax cred1t or a tax cut. Perot: Favors.r~ising the marginal tax rate on the wealthy from 31 to 33 pe~cent, ra1s1ng toba?C~ taxes and the_ gasoline tax by 50 cents over f1ve years. Favors liftmg cap on med1care taxes and increasingthe tax on social security benefits from 50 to 85 percent on those mak1ng over $25,000 a year. 
Perot would endeQeridiock~rado revitalize U.S. economy 
By SHAWN BEALS 
Guest Columnist 

What does a vote for Ross Perot represent? A vote for Perot shows that one is tired of a system that has grown stag­nant. It is a system that does not even entrust in the people a direct vote for the leader of the country. 
The founders of our country created for us a constitution that would evolve as the nation changed. Rather than evolve, the laws have been manipu­lated by a select few for per­sonal gain. 
A vote for Perot is a vote to regain control of the country and revitalize the system. This cannot be accomplished by the wave of a magic wand, but steps need to be taken before reform is out of reach. 
Many applaud Clinton for ad­dressing specific issues. He can address issues until the North­western University football team has a winning season, but a president must be able to work with Congress to pass the issues. 
This is where Ross Perot ex­cels. Perot is able to get things done. 
Bush and Clinton are bound to opposite poles. They are bound by their party, bound by foreign lobbyists, and bound by their financiers. Even if their hands were not tied, they still have the problem of gridlock. 
It is not so much that their ideas are conflicting, but in­
stead that one is a Democrat and the other a Republican. Some policies may even overlap but the title they bear prop­agates dissent. When two groups are in disaccord, an in­dependent can best promote harmony. 
Ross Perot is the one to break the gridlock and get the country moving. It is not by coincidence that both Bush and Clinton agree with Perot's issues. 
Ross Perot is the only candi­date that can represent the mass of the people. He does not have to worry about raising money for re-election because he finances his own campaign. Perot is not tempted to reach into the cookie jar because he owns the company. 
The economy is recovering, but Ross Perot is a catalyst that will stimulate a quicker recov­ery. He wants to create a better environment for future Ameri­cans and he has the enthusiasm and know-how to do it. 
When was the last time that someone left their company and spent 60 million dollars to help the people? It is obvious that Ross Perot loves the American people and wants to perpetuate the opportunity of the American Dream. The only wasted vote is for gridlock: Vote for Ross Perot. 
Beals is a sophomore in the College of Science. There is no organized Perot group at Notre Dame. 


Viewpoint 
page 10 Monday, November 2, 1992 

The Observer 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


It is time to place 'hope' in the Democrat's ticket 
Dear Editor: little wary of those holding and I believed it was time for Some people get nervous able to do with the resources of 
The work of many volunteers power, the vast majority of me to hope again. when they hear that Clinton has the whole country to back his in January and May enabled Clinton delegates. I went in lis­He appealed to my idealism, wanted to be President since he ideas and programs. Jerry Brown to find a place on tening to Jerry Brown talking the very idealism that made me was young. They wonder about the ballot in Indiana Primary, about wanting to open up the attracted to Governor Brown. someone with such ambition. I ask you to look into your and won him about 23% of the democratic process, of bringing Gore opened my heart to an­But isn't that what America is own heart. Displace your cyni­vote statewide. the alienated into the fold. other possibility, and Governor about, growing up poor in cisms, and allow yourselves to 
Those volunteers made it Yet, here I was, someone once Clinton sealed the decision with Hope, Arkansas, one day to be feel hope, once again. possible for a delegation of alienated, at the convention his exhortations about bringing President of the United States? Brown supporters to go to the that would nominate our next America back together, again. To a cynic it's an almost I listened to my heart when I Democratic Convention in July. President! Some part of the He attacked Bush and Quayle ridiculous notion, but it voted for Governor Jerry Brown As one of those delegates, I process clearly works. for their Usffhem notions. He happens to be the truth. in the primary. I expected to be would like to ask you and your Governor Clinton chose Sena­said there are no "us" and And how did Bill Clinton get simply going along for the ride readers to think along with me tor AI Gore as his running mate, "them," I believe, just Ameri­to be in the position of a candi­when it came to my November about the campaign, as we and, as nominees for Vice cans, all in the same boat, to­date for President? Has he vote, but I can tell you, without prepare to vote on Tuesday. President do, the Senator gave gether. been a ruthless seeker of any reservations, that when I go 
At the convention, I was a a speech to the Convention. Well, we are all in the same power? No, indeed, quite the into the voting booth this loyal Brown supporter. I voted One line he used brought me difficult economic boat right opposite. Tuesday and pull the lever for for him when it came time to firmly to the fold. I don't have a now, and as Governor Clinton He took a very poor state and the Clinton/Gore ticket I will, nominate a candidate for Pres­draft of his speech, so I'm has said, we have no one to helped make it a little better. again, be following my heart ident; I voted with other recalling. waste. Arkansas was, as you now have and soul. Brownies when our issues came But he talked about hope and When I listen to Clinton and heard several times, number up. I went in knowing the cynicism. And I believe he said Gore speak, I hear men who say one in job creation this year in Michael Vore foregone conclusion: that a cynic was someone who was what they believe. People say all of America. Third Congressional District Clinton would be the choice of afraid to hope. I believe he Clinton sounds like he has Delegate the majority of the Democratic asked, "Isn't it time to hope, something for everyone. Well, Think of the resources he had Democratic National Conven­party. again?" Tears came to my eyes he certainly has something for in poor Arkansas, and see what tion '92 
I went to the convention a because I believed what he said, me: integrity. he did. Imagine what he'll be Oct. 27, 1992 
Clinton's military involvement hardly deserves a medal? 
Dear Editor: solve their problems, he participated in reconnaissance advanced a half a mile through wish to write did not serve his 
In March of 1944 a brave and cheated. Charles altered his missions with the Rangers. gun fire which came within a country, he did not have the heroic American died serving birth certificate so that he ap­During the Sicillian invasion, few feet of him, in a single­courage to represent his coun­his country. This man, Charles peared to be 18 years old and he distinguished himself by handed flanking movement on try in military actions, and he 
P. Shields, was my uncle and my eligible to defend his country. volunteering to swim ashore 60 enemy soldiers. did not lay down his life for his mother's only brother. There After two years of service ahead of the assault boats and Charles positioned himself fellow American and world citi­came a time in Charles' life with the field artillery at Fort mark beachheads for the behind the enemy soldiers and zens. when he felt the urge, the need, Lewis and Fort Ord, Charles landing parties at Licata. As a succeeded in capturing 20 of the desire, and the re­was transferred to the recon­result of his gallant efforts, the 60 solders. Several months This man did have something sponsibility to serve his country naissance unit at Camp Pickett, Charles was wounded and spent later, Charles was mortally in common with my uncle and make the world a better VA. From here Charles went to time in a Palermo hospital. wounded by an enemy Charles, though. His in­place. Europe and landed with the in­However, this was not the end explosion at the Anzio volvement with the military in­
This time was in the fall of vasion forces at Casablanca on of his outstanding effort. beachhead. volved cheating. The many 1940. Since he was born three Nov. 8, 1942. Charles desired to continue to Subsequent to his death, ever-changing versions of his days after Christmas in 1922, He participated honorably in serve his country and after re­Charles was posthumously story are well-known, as is he. he was only 17 years old when the African campaign, the covering from his badge of awarded the purple heart and He will likely be our next com­he felt this moral obligation to Sicillian invasion, and the Anzio courage he continued to volun­the silver star for his bravery, mander-in -chief. join the military and protect the landing. Charles repeatedly teer for hazardous missions. On dedication to his country, and world from Hitler. volunteered for dangerous but July 17, 1943, Charles vol­willingness to lay down his life James A. O'Brien 
Charles solved his problem necessary missions. He was a untarily left his platoon, which for others. Law Student the same way that many people superb swimmer and frequently was in a covered position, and The other man about whom I Oct. 29, 1992 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I'M NaTf?OING 7HJS FOR. 

IAIORW P&Acer 57RICTl-Y
MY9ttF: 7Hl3 P!<I351P£NCY 

ROUT/N/3, NO 816 fJEAL-.
15 A 7HAN/IUSS, £?/R.TY 

JVIJ, 8IfTI'M t11/UIN6 _/JU9T OP/5N UP 7lJ A1AKe A tf.IOI?LP­7H!3HOOO CLAss 54CRIFIC£ ANOP/X.IP lll£f'EOPI8 /_17l£NO81i6M/3.., Of57VI<Y/
/ 

'What you get by achieving your goals is not so great as what you will become.' 
Zig Ziglar 

Oh, what a feeling, to submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint
Monda~ November2, 1992 page 11 

Election '92 could be won by the 'least harmful' 
The presidential candidates people got us into this mess in which he allegedly hand. and their supporters have spent the first place, why should we Kurt Mills demonstrated during the Gulf This brings us to Bill Clinton. the last year telling us that they believe that they are any On the Other Hand War. And, he has shown re­He does not have a record in are the most qualified and that smarter now and know how to peated poor judgement by sup­national office. Although his they deserve to be president. dig the country out of its to the economy or blowing up porting various "dictators and record in Arkansas seems to be Well, I have news for them. deepening hole? the world in the process. potentates" as Bill Clinton put somewhat mixed, he is highly 
Nobody is qualified to be In addition, nobody even talks George Bush has a record to it. regarded by his gubernatorial president, and certainly nobody anymore about paying off the go by, so we turn to him first. Of course, not all of the na­peers. And, his state has had can say that they deserve the $4 trillion debt. This is because During the twelve years he has tion's or the world's problems modest job growth, which job. The presidency is an few people think this will ever served as vice-president and can be blamed on one person, seems to be the primary con­awesome privilege, not a right happen. president, the national debt has nor can one person solve all of cern this election season. which certain people seem to The world is such a complex quadrupled, millions more have the problems. Yet, while ac­Some .of his proposals, such as think they "deserve." place .that nobody can claim to fallen under the poverty line, tually being part of the prob­those dealing with health care 
Regarding the issue of quali­be an expert on every conflict and he and the rest of his rich lem, he has claimed to be able and the environment are a step fication, it is impossible for any around the world and every friends have seen their financial to solve all of the problems, in the right direction, although, one person to have the qualifi­possible crisis situation. resources go through the roof. while trying to lay blame else­as with all of the candidates, cations for the job we expect a We expect presidents to be It is harder for people of where. Shame on you, Mr. the numbers do not always add president to perform. It is just expert mediators, diplomats modest means to attend college. Bush. up. too big. extraordinaire, expert military Five million more people are And, he has seemed to imply In his favor, he has not tried 
The country is populated by minds, and all around uninsured than was the case in that one man-James Baker­to accuse his opponents of 250 million people, each with supermen (I say men because it 1988. George Bush has violated who has been portrayed as the being unpatriotic or subversive, their own needs and seems many, including some international law by invading saviour of the campaign as well and he has not used govern­expectations, and as the an­women, do not seem to think Panama and shown his as the master architect of the mental resources to try to dig swers to Marisa Hall's question that women have the courage heartlessness by forcible repa­failing New World Order will up dirt on his opponents. And, during the second presidential or the "guts" to go "eyeball to triating refugees from Haiti also be the saviour of the he believes in women's' rights, debate indicated, it is very hard eyeball" and make an adversary (also a violation of international domestic scene. Who does he including the right of women to for any one individual to un­"blink") who can vanquish the law), while expediting the pro­want us to vote for anyway­control their bodies. derstand many of these needs. foe at every turn. cedures for those coming from him or James Baker? This is He has not tried to stigffiatize 
This is especially true if the Even though nobody can be Cuba, which is certainly a less the record on which George large groups of people such as individual is a millionaire or bil­qualified to be president, we serious humanitarian situation Bush should be evaluated. gays and lesbians or single lionaire, insulated by many lay­still must, nonetheless, choose than Haiti. Regarding Ross Perot, his parents. Finally, as Ross Perot ers of bureaucracy and money one tomorrow. Thus, we must He has abdicated any claims of "buying the election has pointed out him.self, he has from real people. turn to the issue of who among leadership in the humanitarian for the people" and running not participated in the creation 
The economy is so large that the candidates will carry out nightmares of Bosnia and because the country asked him of the four trillion dollar nobody really understands the the duties of the presidency Somalia, showing none of his to are so patently ridiculous national debt. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Abortion is
Bill Clinton envisions a united America 

politically, not 
Dear Editor: lege education would do some­He is promising us jobs and rights. 
Time and again in the last thing to make sure students can lower college costs again. Don't What we need is a detailed morally, correct four years, George Bush has afford college. believe him.The President is plan which invests in the future, broken his promises to the What did the Education right. This election is about not a president who talks Dear Editor: American people. He promised President do? Try to take away trust. And America's students mockingly about the "vision In the report on "Professors to create fifteen million jobs. He 400,000 Pell grants. Try to cannot trust George Bush. thing." We are the only indus­debate abortion in political fo­created none in the private slash hundreds of thousands I learned something when I trialized country without a na­rum," (The Observer, Oct. 13) sector. more college loans and grants was in college which I have tional health care plan, a na­Theology Professor Todd 
He promised to cut the deficit. and work-study packages. never forgotten and which mo­tional education plan, and a Whitmore logically would have He let it balloon to the highest That is no way to treat Amer­tivates me to this day. I had a strategy for the future. to claim that the right to life level in American history. He ica's students. professor who taught that Together we will change depends upon the resulting promised to be And he is trying to do it America's greatness is based on America again. We will fight quality of life. Not only is such the"Environmental President." again-trying again to hack two ideas: that tomorrow can for what Americans deserve. an implication poor philosophy, He tried to gut the Clean Air Act away at college aid. In his be better than today, and that The right to borrow for college. but rotten theology. and open half our wetlands to "Midsession Review" -the each of us has a personal A good job. Affordable, quality If two-thirds of women hav­industrial development. midyear report on the budget -responsibility to make it so. health care. A clean, safe envi­ing abortions choose to do so 
Maybe his most appalling Bush suggested more than $10 I still believe it, and I hope ronment. Choice. And a gov­because they don't have failure is in education. Trying billion in cuts to student loans. you can too. ernment that works with the enough money to care for their to strike a "kinder, gentler im­Those are $10 billion that stu­Washington has done so little American people and for the babies, then a woman's free age," Bush promised in 1988 to dents need to get into college. for so long that you may believe American people. choice for an abortion is de­be the "Education President." More than $10 billion that we the President can't change You have a lot more at stake fended by what is politically He knew that Americans care won't have. America. Don't believe it. than I do. You have to worry correct, and not morally right. about education and were un­And where does Bush want to Franklin Roosevelt put millions about paying for your educa­I know a theologian when I happy with Ronald Reagan's spend money instead? Not on of Americans to work during tion. You have to hope that hear one, and this professor cuts through the eighties. public schools. Not on creating the Great Depression. you'll be able to find a decent does not sound like a good one. 
He knew we understand that jobs or keeping health care Harry Truman sent millions of job. education is the key to costs down. Americans to college with the You have to worry that you'll Dr. Alyce Page America's future. And he told On tax breaks for the very GI Bill. Martin Luther King Jr. fall in love with someone who is Oct.28,1992 us what we had every right to wealthy, and millions with him pushed HIV positive. And you have to hear -that as President, he Now the President is running the President to transform our hope that one more Supreme Appreciationwould make sure preschool was around making more promises. laws and guarantee our civil Court Justice won't take away 
your right to choose. 


extended to
I hope you will join me in a great effort to unite Americans, 

ticket donors
to create a community where people look out for each other, 
Dear students: 
not only for themselves. It will Thank you for giving your
be an America where we all 
tickets to our clients at Loganhave a chance, and we all stand Center.
together -whatever our race, our religion, our gender, or our We had a wonderful time andsexual orientation. 
a great turn-out, thanks to you.
Together, we can all change Our programs would not workAmerica. I want you to know without your support. 
that your voices can be heard, and I urge you to register and Thanks again. ... 
to vote. 

Bill Clinton Sister SharonOff-campus Leisure CoordinatorOct. 28, 1992 Oct. 28, 1992 





Accent 
page 12 Monday, November 2, 1992 
Urban Plunge provides aholiday experience 
BY KENYA JOHNSON ing to McHugh. Assistant Accent Editor ''I've walked through down­
town Atlanta many times, but I 
saw something different when 

The Christmas season is a they (the host) took us on a tour. time of year nearly everyone I was more alert to the obvious anxiously awaits. Some look problems around me," he said. forward to the exquisite Zalenski and McHugh both decorating of the tree. Some agreed that Urban Plunge is celebrate wildly as the clock something every student should ticks into a new year. And of try to do at least once while at course there are those who still Notre Dame. wake up early on December "There's no better education 25th and shred the wrapping than learning about and paper that stands between them attempting to understand and their gifts. people whom you know nothing 
Yet there are some who are about first hand," said Zalenski. not so fortunate. There are Urban Plunge takes placethose who spend the holiday during the third week of Christ­season in a shelter; who cele­mas break. Depending on the brate meagerly with mere site, students will serve their 48 strangers; who stare longingly hours anytime between January at a department store window 2-9. There is a reflection paperdisplay wishing they could buy due after the project is finished. something for their son or There is also a one-day follow­daughter. up orientation on Jan. 17 with For 48 straight hours more all of the students who than 300 Notre Dame and Saint participated. Urban Plunge does Mary's students devoted their count as a one credit Theology 
welfare office, or like institute. Some of the facilities Zalenski going on in our world," said
time and compassion to these course, but "most students
"lt is a personal perspective spent time in were the Catholic McHugh. "I think I would have
unfortunate souls. aren't doing it for credit hours," 
on how the people live day to Worker House, a homeless shel­really missed the personal
The Urban Plunge project, of­said Cunningham. 
day," said Cunningham. ter, and a center for abused experience if I was preoccupied
fered by the Center for Social Applications for the Urban
Participant Nina Zalenski women and children. "We were with serving in a food line," he
Concerns(CSC), enables Plunge are available at the CSC
agreed. encouraged to learn about the added.
students to experience and or from dorm representatives
"I was overwhelmed by the people, their background, and "In some ways I feel service is 
understand the life of inner city, and are due this Friday, Nov. 6.
lives these people lead," said their circumstances. It was re­a way to appease the
underprivileged individuals. There is a $10 processing fee
Zalenski. "There's a huge differ­ally an experience to almost live conscience without dirtying the
"The project is meant to be and all applicants are guaran­
ence between helping the poor and understand life in the inner hands," McHugh explained.
more of an observation than teed a site. Ninety-five percent
and understanding the poor," city," Zalenski explained. "Actually living in the situation
hands-on service work," said of the applicants receive their
she added. makes one realize how much
Sue Cunningham, coordinator first choice for a site, said
Zalenski took part in an Pat McHugh also participated really needs to be done, and
of Urban Plunge and summer Cunningham. If an applicant's
Urban Plunge site in Cleveland, in last year's Urban Plunge. that it's not going to get solved
service projects. "Students are desired area is not listed,
Ohio last year. "I didn't really do McHugh highly commends Ur­with one afternoon in a soup
actually lucky if they get to Cunningham stressed that she
service, but I got the ban Plunge for not being a ser­kitchen," he said. 
serve in the soup kitchen lines," will do what she can to find a
opportunity to see the social vice oriented program. Because the project usually
she added. site in that area for the student. 
service programs offered "Service work is great but takes place in the student's
Instead, students spend time Cunningham can be contacted
throughout the inner city," she with Urban Plunge you really hometown, a new awareness
with the patrons of a homeless at 239-7867 for more
said. understand and realize what's about their area arises, accord-
shelter, run-away teen center, information. 

Dispelling the Shakespeare bugaboo 
National Shakespeare 

Company brings its unique production of I ~ Comedy of Errors' ·'' ... ,•·r:.
. ·,... 
" . 1 •. 
" 

Photo Courtesy of NSC Adrianna and Luciana are confused by the two Antipholi from the NSC production of 'A Comedy of Errors.' 

to ND 

From left to right are Sean McCourt, Katrina Ferguson, Jennifer Carroll, and Matt Pepper. 
BY EMILY HAGE have returned many times to not elaborate stage designs. maneuvers that involve a elude "The Taming of the Accent Writer the company. Michele Leon, a As a result, the ensemble jealous wife, her moralizing sis-Shrew" and "Macbeth," they former company member who travels light, with one bus to ter and a schoolmaster-wizard, have attracted large audiences, 
The National Shakespeare toured for two seasons, said, transport actors, set, lights and Shakespeare uncovers all the which include students, faculty, Company (NSC), now in its thir­"There is nothing like the thrill costumes. The actors them-mistaken identities and reunites and the South Bend community, teenth !Ieason, is a non-profit of performing for someone who selves load and unload the the family. said Jeff Stark, who is theatre group that tours the has never seen live theatre be­stage in less than four hours. "A Comedy of Errors" is the organizing this show. 
U.S. and performs Shakespeare fore. It makes all the hard first of Notre Dame's Viva Series "It's the opportunity for stu­especially for people whose ac­work worth it." The plot of "A Comedy of Er­of the Performing Arts, spon• dents to see a quality perfor­cess to live theatre is limited by rors," directed by Casey sored by Student Activities and mance at a good price,' said geographic and economic con­Elaine Sulka, NSC artistic di­Kizziah, includes lost infants, the University's Student Union Stark. straints. rector, co-founded the company mistaken identities, miracle Board. Also part of the series 
The twelve-member acting with her late husband Philip cures, and forbidden romances. are "Mr. Pickwick's Stories for a The National Shakespeare ensemble is chosen from more Meister in 1963. "We do high The story revolves around a Christmas Evening" on Dec. 1 Company will bring "A Comedy than 1 ,000 auditioning profes­quality, affordable, essential pair of twins -both named and a men's a capella choir of Errors" to Washington The­sionals. They are chosen for Shakespeare. Our purpose is to Antipholus-who were from Moscow on March 20. atre on Nov. 2 and 3. Perfor­their ability to handle classical dispel the bugaboo that Shake­separated at birth in a The NSC, based in New York mances begin at 8:10 p.m., and text, to bring a unique and in­speare is for the elite," said shipwreck. They later arrive in City, has performed at the Fire­tickets, $7 for students and $10 sightful point of view to their Sulka. NSC productions empha­the same city with their twin fly Festival in South Bend in the general admission, are roles, and to communicate with size the text -the dialogue, ac­servants, both named Dromio. summer. In their past produc­available at the LaFortune an audience. Many performers tion, and theme of the play -Through a series of farce tions at Notre Dame, which in-information desk. 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
starting every game since his sophomore season. 
Pendergast has made his mark on the offensive end of the field, notching 24 goals in his first three seasons, includ­ing a team leading 12 goals in 1989. 
After starting 15 games as a sophomore, Dillmann has been a key role player for the Irish. Although he has started in just two games in the last two seasons, he has continued to make a major impact, including two game winning goals in 1991. 
Perhaps the most important role for the seniors this year was helping the younger players adjust to the college game. Five sophomore and three freshmen start for the Irish and that youth has created some inconsistency throughout the season. Despite all the ups and downs, the team seems to be peaking as the tournament approaches. 
"We're starting to gel at just the right time," Tricoci said. "We've been playing hard all season, but some things haven't gone our way, but we will be ready for the tournament." 
How Appropriate is Man Is Wearing a Case Of MILLER On Her Head! If You See Lisa Today, Wish Her 

A Happy 21g (FINALLY)! 
Love, Nichol, Jane, Staci, Suzanne &Beth 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classijieds must be prepaid. The


Classifieds 
charge is 2'eents per character per day, including all spaces. 
John x2763  Love always,  
..__N_o_TI_c_E_s__.l  I FOR SALE  WE NEED BC STUD TIX BADLY! CALL KEV OR MIKE AT x1103  Needed -2 to 4 tickets to the Nov. 7 game vs BC. Please call (517)  Need 4 Penn State Tix  Maria and Linda  
337·4973.  Call Tom X3423  Bill, I am so disappointed that we  
ATIENTION:  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  have still not met! To top that, your  
For more information and  I HAVE TWO ROOMS FOR THIS  I N E E D PENN ST & BC  HELP!  I need as many  dance was this weekend, and we  
assistance regarding the  WEEKEND AT THE HOLIDAY INN.  I NEED 2 B.C. TICKETS  •• PENN STATE TICKETS••  were not together. May our paths  
investigation of financing, business  IF INTERESTED CALL KIM AT  WILL BEAT  EITHER GA OR STUDENT  as you have!!  meet near the near future. All my  
opportunities and work-at-home  X2673 BY TUESDAY AT 2;00  ••Call Tara #4766••  desire and love, Jenn  
opportunities, THE OBSERVER  ANY INSANE  CALL KATIE X1262  
urges its readers to contact the  IBM COMPATIBLE SOFTWARE:  I am in desperate need of 2 Penn  Well, to simply put it, "I've had my  
Better Business Bureau of  $2 EACH.  OFFER  HELP ME! I desperately need BC  State GAs.  share of goods times and RICHES  
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  WANTED: COMPUTERS.  Student or GA tickets!  Jim x4110  and s.o.b.'s"  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ 1530 WESTERN AVE., SB.  kyle  Call Ellen x4294  
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­ 287-7550.  MEN AND WOMEN  
9121 or 800-439·5313.  234-9433  SELL ME YOUR PENN STATE  ONLY YOU CAN HELP MEl  
FOR SALE:  G.A.'s AND YOU CAN BE A PART  I NEED 2 PENN STATE G.A.S  FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE  
WORD PROCESSING 256·6657  TREK 300 BIKE, $225 OBO. ALL  OF ONE OF THE BIGGEST  CALL PETE AT 273-1962  
SHIMANO COMPONENTS.  TAILGATERS IN N.D. FOOTBALL  For more info, call COSIMO'S  
TYPING  EXCELLENT CONDITION. 271­ WILL BEAT  HISTORY!  277-1875.  
287-4082  0370.  CALL RICH AT x1 005  B.C. Student Ticket For Sale  
ANY INSANE OFFER  call Jory at 284-4312  MARGE  
For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call  Need 2 GA's for BC. Will pay top  
Rita Delivery on Campus  GIVE A CALL & TRY ME  $$. Call Derek 283-4522.  SELLING BC STUD TIX  ! ! ! ! I ! ! ! ! ! I !  
WANTED  234-6524  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Family coming for BC  CALL ANNA 284-5440  Hobbes is still not 21, too bad  
ALASKA SUMMER  Cheap trip to southern vactionland! Selling a plane ticket to North  I NEED 2 BC GA'S CALL WALLY X3443  Need both stdnt and GAs Paul @ 273·1364 or 239-5273  [PERSONAL  some day you'll drink with us ! ! I ! I ! ! I ! ! !  
EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn  Carolina over Thanksgiving Break.  Need 6 ND·BC tickets call288-5474  
$5000+/month. Free transportation!  You name the price.  I'M DESPERATE...  Hey Niff  Doctor and teacher will make  
Room & Board! Over 8000  Call DAVE at 283-3662.  Oh, and I need Penn St. Tix for my  $$ Help! Need up to 4 BC GAs. Call  dreams for your baby come true.  
openings. No experience  little bros!  Mike At x1115. $$  OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES  Full-time parenting. Best of the city;  
necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call Student  TICKETS  Student or GA's... BIG BUCKS JEN X4975  ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif.  summers by the beach. Your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace  
Employment Services at 1·206·545­ family can provide financial security,  in winter, and by ocean waves in  
4155 ext. A5584.  I NEED 1 PENN ST. STUD. TICKET  NEED GAs, Penn St, BC  excellent education and wonderful  summer. Art, music, the best  
JASON X1746  x3593  future for your baby. Please let us  education, endless love. Call  
EASY WORK! EXCELLENT PAY!  help you in this difficult time.  Franny or Stephen collect. (212)  
ASSEMBLE PRODUCTS AT  NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX  Need: 3 BC GAs  NEED  Confidential and legal. Medical  369-2597.  
HOME. CALL TOLL FREE 1-800­ CALL JOE OR JAY X 1760  Call X1234  expenses paid. Collect anytime.  
467·6226 EXT 6840.  Boston College  (818) 246-1763  DO YOU LIKE KIDS? Then you'll  
I NEED ND FOOTBALL  I NEED STUD & GA's FOR BC &  love this 3rd grade boy who needs  
NEEDED: TUTOR for 3rd grade  TICKETS.272-6306  PSU · Greg 289-6052  GA's  ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif.  tutor. Call me collect in NY for more  
boy in SB. I tutored him last year  family can provide financial security,  info@ 718-325-9642 or esc.  
but I graduated. Please call me  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Need BC student Tix!  excellent education and wonderful  
collect in NY for more info Mike  PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston  Angie x2169  future for your baby. Confidential  DOOMSDAY IS APPROACHING.  
Ferguson 718-325·9642 or call CSC  College GAs or student tix. Call Jill  Call Jeanne  and legal. Expenses paid. Call  If I want to make it through next  
@ x4758 or x4721.  Desperately need B.C. GA's.  Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805)  weekend, I need to find some BC  
I NEED PSU TIX: GAISTU CALL  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Willing to pay lots! Call Beth at  atx2645  520-5978 or attorney (818) 241·  GA's.  
AL: 273-8382  x2577.  5535.  ....Jenn 4059.  
Need One Ticket For Boston  
EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our  College!!! Call 273-2967!!!  I REALLY need 4 BC tickets!  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  do you work for the ira? i don't  
circulars!. ..Begin NOW!...FREE  Please call Jeff-3810  Information on semester, year,  know i'm asking!!!  
packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box  In Need of  graduate, summer and internship  
4000, Cordova, TN 38018·4000.  BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC  The people who pay my tuition  programs in Australia. We represent  DIET MAGICI 30 lbs. 30 days. $30.  
BC  Need BC Ticket -Stud or GA  need 4 GAs for B.C.  28 Australian Universities. Call us  Call (616)471-3970  
STUDENTS or ORGANIZATIONS.  tickets  Call Greg at 3451  call Rich 233-9279  toll free 1-800·245-2575.  
Promote our Florida Spring Break  (as many as humanly possible)  BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC  
packages. Earn MONEY and FREE  call Aileen X4292  Need BC Tickets  RIDE NEEDED -Scranton, PA area  HAPPY BIRTHDAY ROBIN!!!  
trips. Organize SMALL or LARGE  HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP  Please call John at 271-0759  for Thanksgiving. Pis call Bryan  (Sorry it's late!)  
groups. Call Campus Marketing.  Need PSUtix  3320  
800-423·5264.  Mike 234-8306  TWO LARGE ALUMS are  TRADE -2 BC TKS FOR PN ST.  Ah well, another birthday!  
holding me captive and forcing me  GREAT SEATS FOR SAME.  DO CONFLICTS PLAGUE YOUR  Hope you copped that 'tude  
BRIDGET'S IS HIRING MATURE  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  to drink MD 20/20 until I get them  (502) 228-3040.  LIFE?  and put your best foot forward  
BOUNCERS. 271-0373 FOR APPT.  I must have B.C. tickets! Either  Come to the Mediation Exploration  when you celebrated!!  
Student or G.A.'s. My cousin and  B. C. TICKETS  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR ND ·  meeting at the esc to discuss the  
Now Hiring Spring Break Reps!!!!  his buddies are coming in from  Please help!  BC GA TICKETS. CALL JOE @  possibility of a Mediation Service on  HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!  
For Panama City Beach. Greeks,  B.C. to watch their team get  CALL PAUL 289·4278  287-4561.  campus.  Love,  
Organizations, Individuals. Earn Cash, Free Trips, & Experience.  slaughtered! Please help me out! I'M DESPERATE!!!!!! X4990  HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP  Deperate for 2 BC GA's  Wednesday, Nov. 4 at 5:15  Ann, Marjean, Shayla & Mara***********•··························  
Call Joe. Endless Summer 1-800·  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  I need a PSU ticket. Do you have  CALL x1803 TODAY!  Guaranteed Free Spring Break Trip  
 
234·7007.  one? please call 2241! michelle  To Bahamas or Panama City I  Hey Shacker, hope you had a great  
I NEED 3 BC GA'S AND 1 PENN  ••••• FOR SALE •••••  Cancun, Jamaica, Daytona, Keys!  weekend! Have a great 21st  
FOR RENT  ST GA, PRETTY PLEASE WITH A CHERRY ON TOP.  2 BC GAs for sale, Best offer · call Chris X3357  ONE STUDENT TICKET BOOK  Sign-Up Before 12/11/92! Springbreak! 1-800-678-6386.  Birthday! Love, Julie and Sharon  
MIKE X2209  call Bill at 299-1845  Quack Quack  
HOME BED & BREAKFAST  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  HAPPY BIRTHDAY JEN  GO BATHROOM DUCK! I!!  
AVAILABLE FOR PARENTS ON  NEED 10 PENN ST GAs  HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE  Need 1 Ticket for BC: student or  MORIARIATY, CREW STUD!  Quack Quack  
WEEKENDS. 219-291-2899.  BIG TIME CALL PAT x2071  AT 618-439-3338.  GA. Top dollar. Dan 288-6818  Hope you had a Great weekend  
with your midde!  TO THE DANCING GHOUL AT  
For rent: 1 room available · use of  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call  Love ya, the Women of Siegfried  THE CARROLL HAUNTED  
all facilities · clean & safe  1-800-922-BEAR.  BB STUDENT TIX APP  HOUSE:  
neighborhood -close to campus - NEED B.C. TICKETS! !I  FOR SALE CHEAP!!!  Lina-Good DUCK with hoops!  MY TEDDIY BEAR WAS UPSET  
$200 a month. Ask for Paul 232­ BEST OFFER  If all else fails, you can always bite  THAT YOU DIDN'T DANCE WITH  
2794.  GREAT MONEY. ..  LISA X4845  ott the head of a live chicken!  US ON SATURDAY. HOW ABOUT  
NOV.20? CALL ME AT 284-4312.  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  CALL ANGELA  I NEED 1 BC GA,  TRADE YOUR TICKETS TO THE  Top 10 reasons to wish Katrina a  -PIPIIN PIGTAILS  
219-291·7153  DAVE, x4506  FREEZING-COLD OUTDOOR  Happy Belated Birthday ...  
283-2729  PENN STATE GAME TO ME FOR  10. She has pink suede boots.  I HAVE 2 ROOMS FOR FRI. AND  
2 room efficiency utilities paid $7 a  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  DRINKING MONEY SO YOU CAN  9. She has a Culture Club CD.  SAT. AT THE HOLIDAY INN. CALL  
day 2880955  ENJOY THE WARMTH OF THE  8. She irons her clothes.  KIM AT X2673 BY TUES. AT 2:00  
NOV. 7 IS MY BIRTHDAY...  GAME IN THE COMFORT OF  7. She's supposed to have a car  IF INTERESTED. I'M NOT  
Need to sublet  PLEASE HELP ME OUT BY  NEED BC TICKETS IN BIG WAY!  YOUR FAVORITE BAR STOOL  next semester:  INCLUDED.  
trtle crk apt  SELLING ME YOUR BOSTON  DEREK SCHNACK X1374  CALL RICH AT x1 005  6. She does have a T.V.  
Call Damien x1870  COLLEGE G.A.'s  5. She holds a position of high  FOR A GREAT MALE STRIP  
CALL JOE AT x3426  California ALUM desperate for Penn  Need BC tix stud or GA call Chris  authority in the dining hall.  SHOW CALL X3039 AND ASK  
ND Professor can board one or two horses. Stable 1 mile from NO.  DESPERATELY NEEDED!!!!!!  State GAs Top $. Pis lv mess. (( (415)597·2319  273·9176  4. She has a Ouija Board. 3. She's really nice ... when she's  FOR CHRIS AND JORDAN. IF THEY ARE NOT HOME CALL IRA.  ...  
Outside and small covered arenas.  2-4 STUDENT TIX FOR BOSTON  Best friend from Texas coming to  drunk.  
Olympic trainer for dressage. Also  COLLEGE! My friends are poor but  HELP! 92 GRAD DESPERATELY  see snow & PSU game. Need 1  2. She knows men that get  Quote of the week:  
can half-lease mare to very  If you are nice and aren't planning  NEEDS 2 PENN ST GAs PLEASE  stud. or GA. Jeanne x4675  behind.  "I just want to get personal with the  
experienced rider. 277-5828.  on going they would appreciate your  CALL JENNY  1. "You can't f-your calc book."  person I'm personal with"  
help. Call JON X3592.  215-265-7346.  I need BC tix badly!  -jordan  

page 14 The Observer 
Pittsburgh 21, Houston 20 
New Orleans 23, Tampa Bay 21 New York Jets 26, Miami 14 Dallas 20, Philadelphia 10 Buffalo 16, New England 7 Phoenix 24, San Francisco 14 Cincinnati 30, Cleveland 10 Atlanta 30, Los Angeles Rams 28 San Diego 26, Indianapolis 0 WEEK NINE Green Bay 27, Detroit 13 
Colts falter, Dolphins stopped by Jets 
Poor Jeff George. 
Marion Butts' 3-yard touchdown run to Twice in the last cap the scoring and drive George to the three Sundays he's bench. Reliever Jack Trudeau got the had all sorts of San Colts to the San Diego 18 with 1:04 left, Diego Chargers in but fumbled when he was sacked by his face. Grossman and the Chargers' George 
It was bad enough AFC Thornton recovered. on Oct. 18 when he 'Of course you have to start with our was sacked four defense," said Chargers coach Bobby times and intercepted twice in a 34-14 Ross. "I still think that if you can get a loss at the Hoosier Dome. It got brutal on shutout in this league and hold a team Sunday when he was sacked six times under 100 yards, you are doing a helluva and intercepted once as the Chargers job defensively." whipped the Colts 26-0 for their first The Colts had only 99 yards of total shutout in six seasons. offense and eight first downs. George 
"This is a legitimate team," George was 7 for 18 for 53 yards. said of the Chargers (4-4), who have won San Diego pulled into a tie for second four straight for the first time since place in the AFC West with idle Kansas 1987. "They've got a fantastic pass rush. City. The Colts, who had won three of 
''I'll tell you, when I look around the four and were coming off a 31-20 upset league and I see other guys getting four of Miami, fell to 4-4. or five seconds to look over the field, I Mter the defense helped provide a 5-0 mean a quarterback gets jealous seeing halftime lead, Stan Humphries, the AFC that. I don't know what it's like." offensive player of the month for 
The Colts were missing guard Randy October, finally warmed up. Humphries Dixon and tackle Zefross Moss from the hit Nate Lewis on touchdown passes of left side of the offensive line. "We're in a 17 and 9 yards on the Chargers' first two situation now, you take three or four drives of the second half for a 19-0 lead. steps and you're running for your life," George said. Jets 26, Dolphins 10 
Mter pummeling George, the Chargers Ken O'Brien threw threefirst half felt sorry for him. touchdown passes as the Jets handed 
"He was getting hit or sacked most of Miami its second loss of the season. the time and he was just yelling" at his Rookie tight end Jonnie Mitchell was offensive linemen, said defensive end the recipient of one of the scoring tosses, Burt Grossman, who sacked George for a his first as a proffesional. safety to start the scoring in the second Dan Marino led the Miami offense to quarter. "You can sympathize with him. two second half touchdowns, but the You don't like to drop back and have offense sputtered late in the game. three people in your face every down." O'Brien was filling in for injured 
Stanley Richard's interception midway starter Browning Nagle who injured his through the fourth quarter set up knee against Buffalo last Monday night. 
,v::·~ 
272-8124
'rf)'-f. ~c~-·--. 
·11 uftle ·~ /reeK 
Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 
2/10 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
Affordable Student Housing 
Learn publishing from the inside. At the Rice University Publishing 

in book and magazine publishing, July 11-August 6, 1993. Learn from 
insiders at Rolling Stone, Texas Monthly, HarperCollins, Simon & Schuster and others. 
For afree brochure contact: 
School of Continuing Studies, Rice University, P.O. Box 1892, Houston, Texas 
. 77251-1892. 
. (713) 527-4803. 
William Marsh Rice Universily is an EO/AA institution. 


Dallas win, upsets highlight NFC action 
Emmitt Smith replaced by Steve Bono. ran for 163 yards, ~~ Hill had TD catches of 4 and 23 yards the first time in 54 and a 33-yard field goal by Greg Davis as g a m e s the Cardinals led 17-0 in the third Philadelphia quarter. Mter the 49ers cut the lead to allowed a 100-N F C 10, Chandler added a 22-yard TD pass to yard rusher, and Ricky Proehl. Dallas improved to 7-1, the NFL's best Giants 24, Redskins 7 record.. New York (4-4), using a ball-control 
The Cowboys, who lost at Philadelphia offense and a stunting defense that took 31-7 last month, got two touchdown away numerous pass opportunities for passes from Troy Aikman, who had been Washington's Mark Rypien, took a 21-7 0-6 as a starter against the Eagles (5-3). halftime lead and were never threatened 
Aikman hit Kelvin Martin on a 22-yard after that. TD pass and then hooked up with Daryl Washington, which has now gone 11 Johnston on a 14-yard score with 7:39 consecutive quarters without scoring a left to play. Lin Elliott added a pair of touchdown on offense, fell to 5-3. field goals for Dallas, which won its Jerrod Bunch had an 8-yard TD run, fourth straight game. Jeff Hostetler had scoring passes of 17 
Smith's performance took the spotlight yards to Ed McCaffrey and 4 yards to away from the benching of Dave Meggett. Philadelphia's Randall Cunningham and Rodney Hampton gained 138 yards a dramatic 1992 debut by Jim McMahon. rushing for New York. Cunningham, who had been 8-0 against Dallas, was totally ineffective and re­Falcons 30, Rams 28 placed to start the second half. Billy Joe Tolliver replaced injured Chris 
Miller late in the third quarter and hit Cardinals 24, 49ers 14 Michael Haynes with a 13-yard TD pass 
Phoenix, who's only other victory this to defeat Los Angeles (3-5). season was against the Super Bowl Tolliver completed 6 of 9 passes for 86 champion Washington Redskins, got yards in the 81-yard drive that kept three touchdown passes from Chris Atlanta (3-5) from blowing a game it Chandler to defeat San Francisco (6-2). once led 17-0. 
Randal Hill caught two scoring passes It appeared that Jim Everett had found and Johnny Johnson returned from a way to get the Rams a victory on the injury to give Phoenix (2-6) its first 100-road. He threw for 253 yards and four yard rushing performance since 1990. touchdowns, two to Cleveland Gary, who 
The 49ers played most of the game rushed for 144 yards on 18 carries. without Steve Young, the league's Atlanta had built its 17-0 lead on a 2­highest-rated quarterback. He left with yard run by Tony Smith, a 38-yard pass the flu in the second quarter and was from Miller to Haynes and Norm 



FOUND 

IDENTIFIED AS DON REESE 
For more information and a close up look at him, purchase your tickets to see him perform at Washington Hall on November 6th at 8:00 p.m. General Admission Tickets are on sale now at the LaFortune Information Desk for only $3. 
Monday, November 2, 1992 The Observer page 15 

Riley leads Irish to MCC crown 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's cross country team opened their post-season drive with a bang Saturday, impressively crushing their opponents to take the Midwestern Collegiate Conference title. 
Not only did this victory allow the Irish to retake what was once theirs, the conference title, but it also served as retribution for the shocking loss that they suffered a year ago. 
"Last year, we were expected to win the Conference meet, but Loyola came in and beat us, and it was a real disappointment," said sophomore Stefanie Jensen, who placed second in the race. "This year, we were focused on beating them and getting our revenge." 
Notre Dame won the meet with a record total of eighteen points, beating the previous record of 22. Loyola took sec­ond with 74 points, and LaSalle edged Detroit for third place with 102 points. 
An incredible team effort al­lowed the Irish to place all eleven runners in the top 21 spots. Sarah Riley paced the field for the victory with a time of 17:4 7, followed by Jensen, Eva Flood (fourth), Kristi Kramer (fifth), captain Lisa Gorski (sixth), Becky Alfieri (seventh), and Kala Boulware (eighth). 
In addition to the team ac­complishments, Notre Dame individuals also received awards. Coach Tim Connelly was named the 1992 MCC Coach-of-the-Year, and freshman Amy Siegel. who placed eleventh in the meet, was named the 1992 MCC Newcomer-of-the-Year. 
The victory should help Notre Dame as they prepare themselves for the NCAA District Meet November 14, featuring strong running teams like Iowa and Michigan, a team that defeated the Irish October 2 at the Notre Dame Invitational. 
"This was probably our best team performance of the year," commented Kramer. "This will help us a lot mentally, and we'll go into the District Meet with a lot of confidence." 
Notre Dame will need to place either first or second in order to secure a berth in the National Championship Meet November 23. 










MCAT 

ON NOVEMBER 5TH AT 6:30 TO 10:00 PM THERE WILL BE A MOCK MCAT GIVEN IN THE NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ROOM 127. TO SIGN-UP FOR THIS TEST, CALL FR. WALTER AT x.6675 OR VISIT THE PRE-PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. THIS TEST WILL BE ANALYZED BY COMPUTER AND THE RESULTS MAY BE PICKED UP IN THE PRE-PROFESSIONAL OFFICE TWO WEEKS AFTER THE TEST. 
FREE FLU SHOTS 
Eligibility Notre Dame students, faculty, staff, clergy, and retirees 
Dates 
Nov. 3, 4, 5 

Time 
10:00 #' 6:00 p.m. Locations 
Library Concourse LaFortune Student Center 

BE SURE TO BRING YOUR I.D. 
Offered by University Health Services with the support of Student Affairs and Human Resources 


Hockey 
continued from page 20 
Goalie Greg Louder made thirty three saves as the Irish were out shot 39-23. 
Notre Dame returned on Sat­urday night with much of the same intensity they carried on the night before. 
Freshman Jamie Ling gave the team a quick lead forty nine seconds into the game with an excellent individual effort. He carried the puck across the blue line, slid it between the defenseman's skate and stick, and then went one on one with Laker goalie Blaine Lacher, who he faked to the left and then scored on the right side. 
Ling, who had three assists on Friday night, is currently the leading scorer for the Irish. He has netted goals in four of his five games this season. 
Lake Superior responded by scoring the next two goals, the first a twenty foot wrist shot from the top of the slot and the second a three foot backhander off of a rebound to the left of the Notre Dame net. 

The two teams traded power play goals in the second period, with assistant captain Curtis Janicke scoring for the Irish on a two man advantage which demonstrated excellent Irish passing and puck control. The Lakers' tally was a very con­troversial goal which was scored with no time left on the clock. The Notre Dame bench and the fans in the JACC ob­jected vehemently with the ref­eree's call that the puck was shot before time expired. 
Janicke scored his second of the night eight minutes and fif­teen seconds into the third pe­riod on a fifteen foot one-timer from the slot off of a Morshead pass from behind the net. 
That goal tied the game at 3­3, where it stayed until 12:04 of the final period when Laker Wayne Strachan poked in a loose puck amongst a crowd in front of the Notre Dame goal. Lake Superior scored again one minute and three seconds later and then capped the scoring at 6-3 with an empty net goal. 
''I'm not disappointed," Schafer said of his team's per-
Photo courtesy of Sports Information Notre Dame coach Ric Schafer was pleased with his team's performance despite the winless weekend. 
WHAT IF YOU 
DON'T GO 
INTO THE 
SCHOOL OF YOUR CHOICE? 

Sure. there are other schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and their chancesof beingadmitted into their first·choice schools. Fact is. noone has helped students score higher' 
1717 E. South Bend Avenue 
South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 


formance this weekend. "We played very well against a na­tional championship team." 
Indeed, the Irish kept the Lakers to only nineteen shots on net in the second game and allowed very few 2 on 1 and 3 on 2 breaks. They went 3 for 6 on the power play over the weekend, a very impressive statistic against a team like Lake Superior. 
The Irish can also take pride in the performance of this year's outstanding crop of freshmen, who accounted for five of Notre Dame's nine goals and accumulated six assists. 
With this weekends two losses the Irish have dropped to 0-5 (0-4 CCHA), but their record does not accurately portray how they have performed thus far this season. Their first two league losses to Kent St. (who is currently tied for first place in the conference with Lake Superior) were by only one goal (in OT) and two goals, respectively. This weekend, even though they did not win, the Irish clearly demonstrated that they are ready to compete against the top teams in the nation. 
The hockey team will try to begin their winning ways next Friday and Saturday nights at Goggin Arena against Miami of Ohio. 

Baseball 
continued from page 20 
In the movie, an elated player does a front flip at home plate after hitting a homer, to the delight of an ecstatic, frenzied crowd. In America, fans are taught to throw an opposing player's home run ball back on the field. 
The Japanese play the game with sacred honor, as a hitter bows to the pitcher after get­ting hit by a pitch. In America, we are taught to hate our op­ponents and charge the mound if pitched inside. 
The Japanese allow for the possibility of a tie, leaving with the satisfaction of a game well played by both teams. In Amer­ica, a tie is like kissing your sis­ter-disgusting and a virtual im­possibility. 
Mr. Baseball, released about two weeks ago, addresses the sport through a fresh, interest­ing cultural perspective. Ironi­cally, last Thursday the mighty 
U.S. sent a bona fide all-star baseball team East to destroy the legendary Yomiuri Giants in an eight game series. 
The team features a plethora of blockbuster players, includ­ing Jack McDowell, Roger Clemens, Mark Grace, Ozzie Smith, and Fielder. Although it appears as a "Dream Team" mismatch on paper, don't count out the scrappy Japanese squad. Don Zimmer went 3-4-1 with a U.S. all-star team in Japan two years ago. 
Remember, practice makes perfect. 
If what happened on your inside happened on your outside, would you still smoke? 


.. ' 


The Observer/John Bingham Lee Becton carries for a five yard gain during second half action. 
The Observer/John Bingham The Irish defense held Navy to 253 yards total offense, forcing four fumbles and totaling two sacks. 

A . ;;;o.;;;: < . ~ <~~~~~~:{f%~~~~.:k;~j~i~~\~\.~:~~~~ "} }<·=~ ,··· . 
•·<-' 
The Observer/John Bingham Freshman Derrick Mayes attempts to catch a Rick Mirer pass during the first half. Mayes had two receptions for 45 yards. 




The Observer/John Bingham Lee Becton totaled 63 yards on 14 carries, including this carry in Saturday's second half. 
The Observer/John Bingham 

The Notre Dame defense held Navy to 93 yards passing on 14 attempts. 
--~-----~-------­
Monday, November 2, 1992 The Observer page 17 
minute drill to score, Failla took the Irish 42 yards in seven 
SPORTS BRIEFS

Navy 
perfection. He plays. Lee Becton, who rushed for 63 yards, went capped the the final nine yards to close the scoring. -­
drive with a continued from page 20 three-yard pass to a wide open Irv Smith, and Notre Dame went into the locker room with a 31-0 lead. 
"It felt good to play 
well," the Irish quarterback said. "The toughest part of the game was going without the guys (Bettis, Norman and McBride)." 
The second half was, as Holtz put it, "just to get the game 


over with." The first team Jason Van Matre 
offense had two touchdowns called back by penalties in the first series of the half, and then called it a day. 
Kevin McDougal and Paul Failla split time at quarterback for the remainder of the game, but neither was impressive. 
Each threw an interception, and only Failla could lead the team to the end zone. 
After the Middies converted Dave Shaw's interception of a McDougal pass into their only 
Notre Dame jumped to a 7-0 lead on its first possession of the game, when Jeff Burris scored on a five-yard burst from the full-house backfield to complete a eight-play, 49-yard drive. 
Craig Hentrich's 32-yard field goal on the first play of the second quarter extended the lead to 10-0. 
Though the Irish had 223 rushing yards on the day, the Irish air attack was the backbone of the offense. 
"Our passing game saved us," he noted. "Mirer performed well, and the receivers caught the ball and blocked well." 
Even with a depleted backfield and offensive line, the Irish did not plan to rely on the passing game. 
•we expected to play Notre Dame ball," said flanker Ray Griggs, who had two catches for 47 yards. "But, we got in there and they (Navy) had some effective schemes against the run, so we had to go to the pass." 
The fact that the Irish had to do so worried Holtz, as he looked forward to Saturday's game against ninth ranked Boston College. 
"Boston College is a physical, fundamentally sound team that is playing better than Notre Dame is playing," Holtz said. 
"Today, we didn't do it the way Notre Dame likes to do it." 
ND/SMC 5ailing Club will bold a meeting tonight at 6:30 p.m. at the boathouse; If you have questions; call Rudy Bryce at 283­4.104. 
ND Tae l<w.on Do Club will be holding pretesting on November 3 at7:30 p.m. and testing on November 5 at 7:30p.m. in the Fencing Gym of the JACC. If you have questions call Tllll Kalamaros at 277-6797. 
The ND Ski Club/Team will have a mandatory meeting on November 3 in 127 Nieuwland at 8 p.m. Final payments for the Aspen trip will be taken at that time, so bring your checkbooks. Trips are still available so bring interested friends. If you have questions, call Chris Boone at 273-2958. 
The men's basketball_ team will be holding walk-on tryouts today at 7 p.m.. in the JACC Arena. Anyone interested should attend. 
SMC/ ND Women's lacrosse will be holding practice Monday and Wednesday at Loftus at 10:00. Call Heather 284~5103 if questions. • 
1 

RecSports is accepting entries for its men's and women's interhall basketball leagues, grad/fac/staff basketball. club basketball, interhall hockey, graduate hockey, and campus co-ree wallyball. The entry deadline is November 3 and the captains' meeting are on November 5. 
Washington wins, BC routs Temple 

Associated Press-If things keep going this well for unde­feated Boston College and 1,000-yard rusher Chuckie Dukes, who knows what will happen on the sideline after next Saturday's game? 
Dukes, who rushed for 184 yards and three touchdowns Saturday as 11th-ranked Boston College (7-0-1) defeated Temple 45-6, celebrated with his offensive lineman after sur­------passing 100 
ND FOES  yards  for  the  
seventh  straight  
game.  

"I came out today after the game minutes left in the second quarter, and gave them all hugs and little kisses," Dukes said. "The 1,000 yards came and I'm proud of it, but I couldn't have done it without the guys up front. A lot of people don't understand that." 
Dukes scored on runs of 70, 43 and 1 yards against Temple (1-7} he brought his season to­tal to 1,024 yards on 172 car­ries. 
.::JI.huckie just continues to amaze, he continues to run over people," Boston College coach Tom Coughlin said. "He's just getting better and better, and that's the big thing about it." 
No. 12 Syracuse 41, Pitts­
burgh 10 Returns by Quadry Ismail and Shelby Hill set up two early scores and the Syracuse de­fense held the nation's second­most productive offense in check as the Orangemen rolled. 
Syracuse (7-1} continue its dominance of Big East oppo­nents, winning its fourth straight league game this sea­

7 Nebraska 6-1-0 1,181 8 S NotreDame 6-1-1 1,067 10 9 Boston College 7-0-1 1,034 11 10 Syracuse 7-1-0 1,013 12 11 Southern Cal 5-1-1 949 13 12 Arizona 5-2-1 767 17 
13 Kansas  7-1-0  764  18  
14 Florida  5-2-0  754  20  
15 Georgia  7-2-0  739  7  
16 Colorado  6-1-1  596  8  
17 N. Carolina St.  6-2-1  499  21  
18 N. Carolina  7-2-0  477  22  
19 Mississippi St.  6-2-0  385  24  
20 Texas  5-2-0  324  25  

21 Stanlord  6-3-0  301 15  
22 OhioSt.  6-2-0  221  
23 PennS!.  6-3-0  211 14  
24-Tennessee  5-3-0  114 16  

25 WashiniJlOn St. 6-2-0 108 19 
( } = First-place votes AP 
son and ninth since the confer­ence was established last year. Pitt fell to 3-6 overall and 1-3 in the Big East by losing for the fourth time in five games. 
The game was billed as a showtiown between two of the nation's top quarterbacks, but Syracuse quarterback Marvin Graves won the face-off with the Panthers' Alex Van Petl by default with Pitt's quarterback was forced out of the game with an injury. 
With eight and one-half min­utes left in the second quarter, Van Pelt left after being sacked by linebackers Glen Young and Garland Hawkins. 
BYU 30, No. 14 
Penn State 17 

Ryan Hancock threw for three second-quarter touchdowns and BYU's heralded running game was in high gear as the Cougars stunned Penn State. 
While Hancock hit 13 of 19 passes for 220 yards, BYU's runners, averaging just 123 yards a game, racked up 241 yards against the Nittany Lions, led by Kalin Hall's 117 yards on 22 carries. 
BYU's defense also sparkled, twice turning back Penn State drives inside their 10 as the Cougars improved to 5-4. 
No.2 Washington 41, No. 15 
Stanford 7 

A week after losing the No. 1 ranking, the Washington Huskies played their best game of the year Saturday. 
Mark Brunell threw two touchdown passes and ran for another, James Clifford scored on a 42-yard interception re­turn and second-ranked Washington got seven sacks in a rout of visiting No. 15 Stanford. 
The victory over Bill Walsh's team was Washington's 22nd in a row overall and ninth straight over Stanford (6-3, 3-2 Pac-10). The Huskies (8-0, 5-0) hope the win will impress voters who dropped the Huskies below Miami in last week's Associated Press poll. 


ThE CoMeDy OfErRoRs 

Perfonned by The National Shakespeare Company Monday & Tuesday November 2 & 3 Washington Hall 8:10pm Student Tickets $7 
Sponsored by The Student Activities Office and Student Union Board Tickets available at the LaFortune Infonnation Desk 239-8128 

The Observer/Jake Peters Senior hitter Jessica Fiebelkorn paced Notre Dame with 9 kills against Evansville. 


Williams, Bohdan lead women's swimming to weekend sweep 
By ALLISON MCCARTHY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish men's swimming team opened their season this weekend by sweeping the Midwestern Collegiate Confer­ence dual meet and the 28th Annual Notre Dame relays and by defeating Western Ontario Saturday 120-85. 
According to Notre Dame head coach Tim Welsh, overall the swimmers "looked strong, but not fast. Their base and strength training was evident." 
Friday morning, the men opened with the MCC dual tournament, in which they competed against Butler, Duquesne, Loyola, and Xavier. The team scored first in the tournament with some tough competition from Loyola and Butler throughout the meet. 
Notre Dame continued to dominate the weekend on Sat­urday night against Western Ontario. Although Western won six of the eleven events, the depth of Notre Dame's team gave them a thirty-five point victory margin. 
"Our strength was our depth," stated Welsh. "Western Ontario continued to race very well, but they were not quite as evenly balanced as they had been last year." 
As evidence, Notre Dame took first, second, 1ind rhird place""in the 1000 and 50 yard freestyle and the 200 back. 
Both of the 400 relays -the 
I.M. and the freestyle -were particularly strong for Notre Dame, and "both are very sig­nificant to the dual meet sea­son," stated Welsh. 
Tne I.M. relay of senior and captain Tom Whowell, seniors Colin Cooley and Ed Broderick, and sophomore Andy Kiley swam a 3:38.22 on Saturday. Sophomore Kris Samaddar, freshman Ross Parrish, Kiley, and senior Greg Cornick had an excellent 400 free relay with a time of 3:14.55. Cornick also had an outstanding 100 freestyle, swimming a 47.6. 
"We have a young team, and it will be exciting to see us rise to the challenges of the sea­son," stated Welsh. The first of these challenges will be Friday at 7:00pm against Bowling Green, who also began their season this weekend. 

NOTRE DAME 
vs. SOUTHERN CAL 
AIR ONLY 
or COMPLETE PACKAGES with air from South Bend, hotel, and game tickets. 
271 ..4880~· ~travelmore · ~Carlson Travel Network
-

The Observer Monday, November 2, 1992 


Irish volleyball topples two MCC foes 
By JIM VOGL 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team and coach Debbie Brown took their first two steps toward repeating as Midwestern Collegiate 
Conference champs, stomping Evansville and Butler over the weekend. 
The 22nd-ranked Irish, now 21-5, pounded the Aces 15-4, 15-2, 15-5 in their MCC season opener on Friday. All fourteen players on Notre Dame's roster saw action except 

Christy Peters. The Marilyn Cragin sophomore outside hitter, who leads the team in kills and total attempts on the season, sat out this weekend with the flu. 
"We kept our focus well. Evansville was not able to put up a service reception and their passing scheme broke down," Brown said of the hour-long massacre. Her team committed only nine errors and had a dominating .409 hitting percentage in the final frame. 
Jessica Fiebelkorn lead the way offensively with nine kills, while Nicole Coates and Brett Hensel combined for 26 digs. Freshman Shannon Tuttle worked smoothly in place of junior Janelle Karlan at setter, contributing 13 assists. 
On Saturday, Butler, 14-13, put up a better challenge, especially in the first game. 

"At times we played as well as we have all season," offered Butler's first year coach Sharon Dingman. The imposing front line of six-footers Stephanie Wesley, Laura Baire and Wendy Maat made a long night for the Irish. 
Notre Dame managed only a .128 hitting percentage in the first game, looking out of sync and dominated by the Bulldogs scrappy defense. 
"We were a bit surprised by Butler's defense," said Brown. 'They have good reactions and they don't give up.They constantly dug out balls that we thought would have been kills." 
"We started off shaky," admitted Karlan, "But once we started passing well, we really got rolling. Our hitters were really on tonight." 
Senior Marilyn Cragin turned in an outstanding night, blasting 22 kills with only one error, good for a .677 hitting percentage. "That was the most incredible individual performance I've seen against us," lauded Dingman. 
Fellow seniors Alicia Turner and Jessica Fiebelkorn added 30 kills, while Coates lead the team with 17 digs in only three games. 
Notre Dame bolted out to an 8-1 lead in game four, but lost momentum after a Butler time-out. 
In addition to the rough starts and finishes in matches, Brown hopes to improve on the team's concentration in preparation for the stretch run. "Sometimes we lost our patience in long rallies. That's definitely not one of our strengths," noted Brown. 
Still, Notre Dame certainly appears to have the talent to repeat as MCC champs. 
"We were just playing a better team," surrendered Dingman, whose team dropped to 2­3 in conference play. 
By HALEY SCOTT 
Sports Writer 
It was a long weekend for the Notre Dame women's swim team. 
With the Midwestern Colle­giate Conference dual meet Friday morning, the Notre Dame relay meet Friday night, and a dual meet against West­ern Ontario on Saturday night, the Irish were tired, but were still victorious. 
"We raced well under the conditions we were given,"said senior co-captian Susan Bohdan said, "It was exciting to see the first meet of the season with the new freshmen racing, and the energy and the spirit of the upperclassmen coming back." 
Bohdan won the 500 yard freestyle at the MCC dual meet with a time of 5:14.88, and was on two winning relays at the relay meet. 
Senior co-captian Tanya Williams was also pleased with the weekend. 
"Friday went really well con­sidering how long we were at the pool," said Williams. " The 
Irish men's swimming shows depth in win over Western Ontario 
meet Saturday was awesome. We really got up and raced well. A lot of people had some good swims and improved a lot upon the day before." 
Williams won the 200 yard butterfly (2:08.56) and the 400 yard individual medley 
(4:34.83) on Friday morning, along with three relays Friday night. 

"The weekend as a whole was a tough weekend. I thought it was key how everyone pulled together as a team," said Garvey. "We went into the meet on Saturday night dragging and tired, but we came out winning and on top. Mentally we really pulled through it, and that helped us physically." 
The freshmen played a key 
This weekend she won five of her six individual events. 
"I am not used to a lot of dual meets, and the team spirit here is a new experience for me," commented Peterson. 
Other individual winners were freshmen Amber Wiebe and Joy Michnowicz, and Sophomore Jenni Dahl. 

role in the Irish's three victories Sophomore backstroker Cara this weekend. Newcomer Garvey was an individual win­Jesslyn Peterson, a Freshman 
Gladieux 

ner in the 100 yard backstroke from Bishop Moore High School TRAVEL
Q

on Friday and the 200 yard in Florida, was an All-American 
Top Gainer of 1968 Has 

backstroke on Saturday. all four years in high school. 
Gone To The Air
Bob Gladieux 
lntematlan1l SpuW.. t 
234-6636 

MOCK PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION 




TODAY 
Vote On Campus students all residence halls 11,1, 5 .. 7 Off Campus and Graduate students LaFortune 11,1, 5, 7 Faculty Decio 10.. 2 Administrators and Staff Main Building 11,1, 3 .. 5 
SPONSORED BY STUl)mT
fr-:...· 

GOVERNMENT AND THE OMERVER 
ACROSS  27 Aquila's brightest  so Kyongsong  
1 Kind of song or dance  star 30 Kind of bath  52 Passage, anatomically  
s Code sounds 9 Adult walking stick. e.g. 14 Netman Nastase  32 Kettle et al. 34 Freebie's cousin 35 Describing an Italian diva's  53 Meat topping a Ia a French marshal 59 Wahine's porch  
15 "Support Your Local Sheriff!"  pasta dish 38 Harvard  62 An anagram for deli  
actor  climbers  63Bow  
16 Broods of  40"­ 64 Girlfriend, in  
pheasants  Dalmatians,"  Grenada  
17 Upward of  Disney film  65 Be chockablock  
18 Hurting  41 Bear and Berra  66 Author Shere  
19 Green-skinned pear  42 Russian count's treat  67 Mingles  
20 Actress  45 Mispickels  68 Chow  
Reichenberg's  46 Catch  69 Flanders flower  
flambe  47What, to  
23 Hiemal vehicle  Watteau  
24 Broadcast  48 With wisdom  DOWN  
1 Exchequer  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  2 Swan genus  
3Key-pie  
4 Giftbooks  
s Peach Melba, for one &Audibly 7German  13 The Beavers' sch. 21 "Whiffenpoof" singer  30 "... fettered to an office-": G.&S. 31 Crocus, e.g. 33 Scaredy-cat  52 Small land mass 54 Snack ss Cogitator's reward  
mountain range  22 "So long!"  36 Banshee's land  56 "Mila 18" author  
8 Barrie baddie 9Agitated  25 Expatriate 26 Ortega or Defoe  37 Animal science 39 Trees named for a Cherokee  57 Shed for pouters 58 Wide-mouthed container  
10 Pitman 11 Pt. of speech ;::+:::.j.:.:.JIIIIIII!-=-lR:,;..f:::..& 12 Part of five Declaration of Independence sinn::~t•·  27 Little action 28Antiflood embankments 29 Sorrowful, to Chopin  scholar 43 Tubby's friend, Little­44 Thinks well of 49 D.D.E. opponent 51 Bowwood  59 Hasty retreat: Slang 60"-Biue," 1929tune 61 Nope  

------~--~

,....--------­


Today 
page 19

Monday,••November 2, 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S •• 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON
SPELUNKER 

BILL WATIERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 



• 
"More worms? ..• Saaaaaaaaay -why are you being so nice to me all of a sudden?" 
DOMINO'S PIZZA 
Today's Special: 

1 Large Thin..Cfust Pizza 
Call Now 

NO 271~0300 SMC 289~0033 

• 



As seen on Saturday Night Live Featuring the hits ''Little Miss Can't Be Wrong" and 'Jimmy Olsen sBlues" 
Appearing 8 p.m. Tuesday, Nov. 10 at Stepan Center Tickets $1 0' ·at LaFortune Info Desk 

•------------------------------------------­

WALL/ COLLINS 
Host of "Stand Up , Stand Up" on Comedy Central Appearing Nov. 17 at LaFortune Ballroom 8:00p.m. 
Tickets go on sale Nov. 9 at the LaFortune Info. Desk Price of admission: $3.00 
STIJDENT UNION BOARD 

--~-~­
------~------­


Sports 

.. 
.. 
JIMVOGL 
Chalk Talk 
Japan gives honor to America's national pastime 
While incumbent George Bush continues to 
end every speech with the patriotic battle-cry, "God bless America!", independent Ross Perot forces America to realize that we are slipping as an international power. 
Amid this revelation, Hollywood has created a film that reflects our inhibitions and shortcomings as Americans. 
And what better a context than in America's greatest pastime, Baseball. 
Tom ·Selleck stars as an American who opts to play in Japan in the movie Mr. Baseball. He represents those marginal players who have disappeared to the Land of the Rising Sun, players like ex-Dodger Reggie Smith and current Detroit Tigers Bill Gullickson and Cecil Fielder. 
Baseball has emerged as a sacred ritual in Japan, rivaling sumo wrestling, kabuki and the martial arts. In the Uttle League World Series, we see Japanese youths playing the game with the same intensity and seriousness that their fathers diligently apply at work. 
On the field as in the corporate world, Americans are seen as the talented, spoiled, unmotivated superstar, a la Darryl Strawberry. The Japanese are the consummate over-achievers, who hustle, work extra hard at practice, and put the team ahead of the individual, a la Mark Lemke. 
Selleck learns an important lesson in Japan, where "the nail that sticks out gets whacked." This strict code of conformity dominates in Japan and throws the American for a loss. 
The Japanese respect and envy talented American baseball players. Reggie Smith, just a decent, switch-hitting outfielder in Los Angeles, made professional Japanese baseball fields look like t-ball fields with his prodigious homers. He became a legend rivaling Japan's Babe Ruth, Sadahara Oh. 
The Japanese graciously welcome Americans prepared to take on the culture shock and experience Japanese baseball. Yet to protect the opportunities of the less­talented natives, they allow only two American players per team. 
By contrast, America revealed its own insecurity and xenophobia when a Japanese firm attempted to buy the Seattle Mariners last year. We expressed fears that, in purchasing a piece of our national pastime, the Japanese were buying our spirit. Instead, we should be looking inward and find a baseball commissioner who will create a financial atmosphere where teams are ca­pable of paying their own bills. 
In Japan, baseball players shower each other with sincere admiration and respect. The movie illustrates the Japanese ritual of stuffing the locker of someone who hits a grand slam with cigars and scotch after the game. 
In America, egotistical baseball players don't always celebrate wholeheartedly. Re­member after the World Series victory, the scene where "Neon" Deion Sanders' primary concern was not to congratulate his teammates, but to seek revenge on t.v. commentator Tim McCarver by repeatedly drenching him with buckets of water? 
In Japan, homers are a huge ritual event. 
see BASEBALUpage 15 


INSIDE SPORTS 
IISwimmers find weekend success 
see page 18 
•v-ball takes two over weekend 
seepage 18 
•Runners win MCC title 
see page 15 


Notre Dame shells Navy, 38-7 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.-Despite a 38-7 victory, Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz was not too happy about his team's performance on Saturday against a winless Navy team. 
The Irish offense, which was playing without Jerome Bettis, Todd Norman and Oscar McBride, seemed to be on cruise control in the second quarter when it scored 24 points. 
However, Holtz criticized the unit for not being tough enough. 
"I was disappointed with out running game," the Irish head coach commented. "We're letting people dictate the tempo of the game. 
• Irish jump to eighth in polls/page 18 
"Offensively, we've lost our intensity. We used to be tough on offense. We haven't been as tough all year as we used to be. 
"We seem to want to the easy way. Most of our yardage has been on big runs. It's not tough yardage." 
Though Holtz was critical, the offense seemed to be clicking behind Rick Mirer's arm. With the Irish ahead 10-0, Mirer hit Reggie Brooks in the numbers for a 24-yard touchdown over the middle. 
After Brooks scored from four yards out on the Irish's next possession to put Notre Dame up 24-0, the Irish defense stopped Navy to give Mirer a chance to extend the lead before halftime. 
The Irish got the at their own 31 with 1:16 left, and Mirer, who had a: season-high 15 completions out of 24 attempts for 221 yards, engineered the two-
see NAVY/page 17receptions. 

Upset-minded Irish fall short against Lake Superior 

Men's soccer ends regular season against Miami 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 

With the Midwester·n Collegiate Conference tournament just three days away, the Notre Dame men's soccer team concludes the regular season tonight at Alumni Field against Miami (Ohio). 
Preparing for the MCC tournament has been the main concern for the Irish throughout the season, but tonight's game carries some added im­portance because it marks the final home appearance for seniors Mario Tricoci, Kevin Pendergast and Brendan Dillmann. 
"It is a big deal for the seniors, we'll be disappointed when it's over," Tricoci said. "We want to go out with a win." 
T h e seniors have helped carve out a winning tradition for the Notre Dame men's s o c c e r program during their careers. Just two years ago, the Irish stumbled to a 4-11-3 finish, but in 1991 they finished 13-5-2 and they enter 


tonight's game at 9-6-2. 
Despite the turnaround, there is still one goal that has eluded this group of seniors: the NCAA tournament bid that goes to the MCC tournament champion. Reaching the NCAAs may be their main goal, but they are not looking past Miami. 
"This is as important as any other game," Tricoci said. "We're taking this very seriously, but the tournament is what's most important." 
Tricoci has anchored the Irish defense over the last three years, starting every game since his sophomore season. 
see SOCCER/page 13 

By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame hockey team nearly pulled ofT the upset of the season this weekend in their two game series with defending NCAA champion Lake Superior State. Although they dropped both contests, the Irish surprised many with their strong play and competitiveness against one the top teams in the nation. 
In Friday night's home opener, the Irish held a 5-3 lead over the Lakers with less than four and a half minutes remaining in the third period when they fell victim to two crucial penalty calls. Lake Superior tallied on both power plays to even the score at five before Laker leading scorer Clayton Beddoes put home the winning goal to hand the Irish a 6-5 loss. 
Lake Superior opened strongly by scoring three times in the first period and keeping Notre Dame to six shots on net and no goals. However, the Irish recuperated during the first intermission and returned to score five unanswered goals, including four in the second period alone. 
Freshman Jamie Morshead sparked the run by netting the first two Irish goals of the evening, less than four minutes apart, the second of which oc­curred while the Irish were short­handed. 
Captain Matt Osiecki scored on the power play two and a half minutes later followed by freshman Chris Bales' first goal of the year. Freshman defenseman Jeremy Coe concluded the Irish scoring on a power play goal with 8:31 remaining in the third period. 
The Irish' luck turned with 5:23 left in the game when sophomore Brent Lamppa was sent to the box on a questionable holding call. The Lakers scored half way into that power play and then again after senior Sterling Black was called for roughing. The final goal occurred at even strength on a fifteen footer from the slot. 
Notre Dame coach Ric Schafer categorized the loss as "especially devastating." 
see HOCKEY/page 15 


The Observer/Jake Peters 

Notre Dame goalkeeper Greg Louder played strong in both games against Lake Superior. 







