r------------------------------~--------------~------~­

~-~ 
..ge,. 
1Ulo199l 
HSQUIC(NI(~NIA' 
e Observer 5aintMa~~Cd~ 


VOL. XXIV NO. 133 
The thrill of victory 
NOTRE DAME•INOIANA 

THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S . 

Countries clamp sanctions on Libya 
Gus, Matthew, Michael, Aaron and Brant show off the ribbons they won yesterday at the Spring Olympics sponsored by the Law School Forum on Social Justice. The games were held on the quad in front of the Law School and include an egg toss, tug of war and three-legged race. 
Kmiec says Freeman v. Pitts decision 'does not go far enough' 
By DANA ANDERSON Kmiec said, "but it doesn't the court order in 1969 was sponsible for the choices of pri­vision in that area, thus result­News Writer mandate them to. That means meant to eliminate vestiges of vate individuals that result in ing in additional flexibility. that litigation will continue, past discrimination by unravel­demographic segregation. The The Federal Court has been 
The recent Supreme Court de­meaning more resources will be ing decisions made 10-30 years school district wanted to know running the schools since 1954, cision in the Freeman v. Pitts spent on lawyers instead of ed­ago within the school sys­if they were obligated to main­with the Brown v. Board of Ed­school desegregation case "is ucational quality." tem. The school system found it tain a racial balance even when ucation decision_ The superin­good, but doesn't go far Laws made in 1969 give rise difficult to comply with this the imbalance is unrelated to tendent had to report all deci­enough, "said Douglas Kmiec, a to the desegregation litigation order because it became impos­activities of the school district. sions made pertaining to the professor at the Notre Dame today. A federal district court sible to differentiate between The Court wrote an opinion school system to the court. Law School. order required the desegrega­outcomes of discrimination of then that on the surface gave Kmiec said that this extreme 
In a unanimous decision, the tion of DeKalb county schools to choice. more flexibility to the superin­waste of money, especially high court ruled that the eliminate race from the basis of In DeKalb County, the racial tendent and school district. It when schools across the county DeKalb County, Georgia school any decision-making within the composition is such that whites gave a checklist of items that are facing severe budget district is not under a continu­school system. live in the northern part of the must be met to eliminate the crunches and national concern ing obligation to adjust the ra­The Supreme Court ordered county while blacks generally vestiges of discrimination. about the quality of school cial composition of its student that the administration end live in the south. These choices These criterion involved stu­achievements is increasing, is assignments due to population public discrimination by no have nothing to do with the dent, faculty and staff assign­the significance of the Freeman shifts within the county that longer assigning students, fac­school districts themselves, but ments, transportation, extra­v. Pitts case. "The case opened have nothing to do with past ulty, and resources to facilities they do effect the racial com­curricular activities and facili­up the possibility of less discrimination. on the basis of race. From the position of schools. ties. If the school met the re­litigation and more funds to 
"The ruling permits federal moment of this decree, the The nub of the question to the quirements for one of the crite­education." judges to release school dis­DeKalb system complied with supreme Court, according to rion, the Court expressed the In 1986, a federal trial court tricts incrementally from a this decision. Kmiec, is whether the DeKalb willingness to release the dis­
see KMIEC/ page 4 

court desegregation order," However, the second part of County school district is re-trict from federal court super-
Clark, Loesch win awards 

Beauchamp hopes controversy will not affect local United Way agencies 
By PAUL PEARSON 
area are satisfied that "positive Associate News Editor action has been taken ... and 
that the necessary change have 
Father E. William been made" at the national of­Beauchamp, University execu­fice, Beauchamp said. tive vice president, hopes the Beauchamp emphasized the charitable efforts of the local fact that the local United Ways United Way agencies will not are independent organizations be affected by the recent run by independent volunteers. controversy involving the and that 99 percent of all funds national office. raised remain in the local area. 
In a press conference yester­"It is important for people to day, Beauchamp, who is also know that the practices of our chairman of the board for the local United Ways are not United Way of St. Joseph being disputed, and that the 
William Beauchamp
County, announced that the lo­actions of William Aramony do cal chapters "reinstate our report recommending changes not reflect the practices of your 
Special to The Observer 
Gabriele Clark and Martin Loesch have won the 1992 Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion's Distinguished Student and Distinguished Graduate Student Awards. 
The awards recognize service to community and the Univer­sity in conjunction with strong academic standing. The under­graduate award has been given annually since 1982; this is the second year for the graduate award. 
Clark is a senior English ma­jor from Mechanicsburg, Pa. A Notre Dame scholar and four­year member of the Dean's List, she is currently writing a senior honors thesis examining the racial and gender oppressions faced by African American women in American society as articulated by the author Toni Morrison. 
Clark has been active in Badin Hall as fund-raising chair in 1989-90 and coordinator for Late Night Olympics. She also participated in the annual Ice­berg Debates. 
In the community. she has been involved in the Neighbor­hood Study Help Program, Christmas in April, the Ap­palachian Service Seminar and the Summer Service Project. 
Clark also pioneered Notre Dame's involvement with the Nevada Desert Experience, a program that seeks resolution to the problems associated with nuclear arms testing as well as homelessness and poverty in the Las Vegas area. 
Loesch, from Olympia Fields, Ill., will receive his third and fourth degrees from Notre Dame in May. He earned his bachelor's degree in 1987 and a 
see AWARDS/ page 4 

TRIPOLI, Libya (AP) -Coun­tries barred Libyan jets from their airspace and ordered diplomats to go home on Wednesday, tightening a noose around the Arab country to pressure it to turn over sus­pects in the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103. 
The punitive measures were sanctions approved by the United Nations, but a defiant Libya tried to flout them by sending its jets into the sky. They were turned away -in one case by fighter jets. 
Libya summoned diplomats from Britain, France, Italy, Sweden, Belgium and Czechoslovakia, and told them some of their number would be expelled, Libyan television re­ported Wednesday night. Libya also said no Libyan airline tick­ets would be sold to citizens of countries supporting the sanc­tions. 
Although there is Arab senti­ment against the sanctions, nations in the region abided by a U.N. resolution passed March 31 banning arms sales to Libya and calling on countries to cut back Libyan diplomatic staffs. Despite the grounding of flights, land and sea links remained, including ferry service to the nearby island of Malta. 
At this point, the sanctions could prove more troublesome than crippling. They do not in­clude a boycott of Libya's oil sales, which account for 90 percent of the country's earn­ings. 
British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd told British Broadcasting Corp. radio that oil sanctions may be next. But this would be a difficult step, since the current sanctions re­ceive only lukewarm support from many Security Council members and are not nearly as tough as those imposed on Iraq when it invaded Kuwait. 
Libyan crude is vital to the West, especially Italy, and some oil experts believe an embargo could backfire on Western economies. 
A tightening of the screws on Tripoli also would increase popular pressure on Arab gov­ernments, which argue they are being asked to enforce sanc­tions on another Arab state while Israel, subject of numer­ous U.N. resolutions, goes un­punished. 
see LIBYA! page 4 

confidence in United Way of in the national office, such as a local United Way." America." 10 percent cut of its 1992 bud­Beauchamp also said that the 
The national body, after re­get, a hiring freeze and repre­local agencies are carefully ports of mismanagement and sentation of local agencies on scrutinized, and that all agen­fraud, fired President William its Board of Governors. cies are audited annually. Aramony March 16 and has re­After reviewing this report, 
see UNITED/ page 4 

cently released an investigative the agencies in the Michiana 
page2 The Observer Thursday, April 16, 1992 
INSIDE COLUMN 
TQM can fix 


U.S. business problems 

You've heard it all before, Japanese power-the way of the future. But what makes 
DAVID

Japanese business so 
BELIVEAU

successful? The answer 
Controller

lies behind an ingrained Japanese principle of business, a new American buzz word that is quickly________ becoming very popular: Total Quality Management (TQM). The implementation of TQM has allowed Japanese business to literarily take over the world financially. What's the secret behind this revolutionary system of business? 
Fortunately, I had the opportunity to work as an intern last summer at the Growth Opportunity Alliance of Greater Lawrence, GOAL/QPC, a Total Quality Management research organization in Methuen, Massachusettes. There, I learned about TQM from its executive director Robert King and 
Michael Br'assard, both leading TQM specialists. These instructors stressed the underlying theme of TQM as American innovation coupled with Japanese discipline. 
TQM employs the concepts of statistical control in the workplace. The goal of TQM is to provide an organization with the optimal quantity of production at the minimal cost. To accomplish this, managers engage in regression analysis and linear programming to acquire a feel as to which elements in their business are significant cost drivers. The relevant cost drivers are then analyzed to determine significant production cost information. The end result is an informed management that is able to make the most cost effective decisions to best benefit their organization. 
Wait a minute, enough of this statistical talk, did someone say American innovation? The American people hold the key to what drives TQM. American innovation has been responsible for a great deal of technological advances in our world. However, the Japanese people have been able to take our ideas and implement them in more cost effective ways. What can we do? 
It's time for America to take hold of this TQM business. We are great innovators, but need to implement of ideas in the most cost effective ways. As Professor Edward Hums in our Accountancy Department says, "An accountant's 
ob is to keep score." Truly, if American business is going to take advantage of TQM, it's going to have to begin in the accounting field through some effective score keeping. 
What can we do as students to prepare for the dawn of TQM in the work place? It may sound scary, but business statistics classes are the answer. Statistics is the key to effective accounting score keeping; so enjoy the challenge of classes such as Statistics in Business or Quantitative Analysis classes-the success of American business depends on it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 

News Becky Barnes Alicia Reale  Production Kathy Fong Cheryl Moser  
Sports Mark McGrath  Accent Pat Moran  
Systems John Halloran  Viewpoint Jason Thomas J. Brian Stalter  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved 
'-----­

FORECAST: 
Cloudy and mild today with an 80 percent chance of thunderstorms. Highs in the mid 60s. Friday will be partly cloudy and mild with highs in the mid 60s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  50  34  
Athens  64  48  
Bogota  72  43  
Boston  53  35  
Cairo  75  63  
Ch1cago  57  37  
Cleveland  55  33  
Dallas  82  67  
Denver  65  47  
Detroit  42  30  
Indianapolis  73  48  
Jerusalem  63  46  
London  45  39  
Madnd  75  46  
Minneapolis  42  39  
Moscow  54  39  
Nashv1lle  85  63  
New York  59  39  
Pans  50  43  
Philadelphia  63  42  
Rome  68  50  
San Francisco  66  56  
South Bend  65  45  
Tokyo  59  46  
Wash1ngton, D C  69  46  


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL Doolittle reunion planned 

• COLUMBIA, S.C. -Doolittle's Raiders, the men who led the first air raid on Japan during World War II, are gathering at the place where it all began to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the attack. Half of the 80 raiders are still alive, and 36 plan to attend the reunion, which runs from Thursday through Satur­day. Missing from the reunion will be James Doolittle, who as a lieutenant colonel led the daring team. Doolittle, 95, lives in Carmel. Calif. The raid was the United States' answer to Japan's attack on Pearl Har­bor four months earlier. 
Domino's chases deliveries 

• ANN ARBOR, Mich.-Domino's Pizza Inc. delivery drivers shouldn't chase after deliveries from other piemakers, says the corporate office. But independents needn't heed corporate dictums, and so the pizza war in Florida continues. Actually, it's more like a game of pizza pursuit. A Domino's outlet in Okeechobee, Fla., sends drivers to track down drivers from rival Pizza Hut. Mter the Pizza Hut delivery is done, the Domino's driver offers that customer a free Domino's pie. The idea is to get Pizza Hut customers to try Domino's. Because of incidents such as drivers being involved in chases as Pizza Hut drivers tried to shake their Domino's counterparts, Pizza Hut asked Domino's to stop the pizza pursuit. 
OF INTEREST 

•White 
Sox student night will be April 24th when the South Bend White Sox play the Peoria Chiefs. Notre Dame and St. Mary's students with the Notre Dame Credit Union can pick up their tickets at LaFortune. 

•AnTostal 
Golf Tourney sign-up for Wednesday, April 22 can be made in the Student Government Office from 11 a.m.-5 p.m. until Tuesday, April 21. Times will be assigned. Call 239-7757 for more information. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ April 15 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 276,116,190 


229.15 iff-1.84 S&P COMPOSITE 416.28 it 3.89 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,353.76 1} 47.63 
PRECIOUS METALS 

GOLD'f $3.50 to $336.0oz. 
SILVER'f 9.5¢ to $4.006oz. 
Search in Lincoln's DNA delayed 
• WASHINGTON -A committee of experts rec­ommended today that curators of a Washington mu­seum delay the genetic search for evidence that Abra­ham Lincoln had Marfan's syndrome until scientific techniques have improved. The experts issued the rec­ommendation in response to a request by the National Museum of Health and Medicine to evaluate how best to conduct a search in Lincoln's DNA pattern for the genetic proof that he had Marfan's syndrome. Histori­ans have long suggested that lincoln had Marfan's be­cause his physical characteristics matched some of those of patients with the disorder. 
Unification church to fund university 
• 
BRIDGEPORT, Conn. -Trustees of the troubled University of Bridgeport voted Wednesday to negotiate an affiliation with an arm of the Rev. Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church. Under the plan, the Professors World Peace Academy would give the uni­versity $20 million in cash up front and at least $30 million more through a combination of tuition revenues and cash over the next eight years. Moon, believed to be one of the world's wealthiest men, controls a media and religious empire with links to right-wing causes and politicians. His church has been accused of brain­washing followers like a cult. 

•"Corporate 
Responsibility and Ethics" will be discussed by Terri Capatosto of McDonald's Corp. on Tuesday, April 21, at 7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. The lecture is part of a three-day Earth Week environmental conference. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1862: A bill ending slavery in the District of Columbia became law. 

• 
In 1918: The Federal Food Board began prosecuting grocers who refuse to label food. 

• 
In 1956: Bulgarian Premier Chervenkov was ousted in an anti-Stalin drive. 

• 
In 1964: German Geraldine Mock became the first woman to complete a solo round-world flight. 

• 
In 1973: Martha Mitchell called Richard Nixon's claim that he and John Mitchell didn't meet April 4th a "god-blessed lie." 

• 
In 1991: President Bush announced that U.S. forces would be sent into northern Iraq to assist Kurdish refugees. 


Thursday, April 16, 1992 

VALPARAISO, Ind. (AP} ­Hundreds of Valparaiso Uni­versity students marched peacefully on the president's of­fice Wednesday to demand a tougher administration reaction to two incidents of alleged racism. 
President John Harre met the students outside in a chilling rain and implicitly conceded to one student demand -ac­knowledgment that a brawl and a dormitory fire may have been racially inspired. 
"I'm very angry about acts of racism on this campus," he said. 
Harre then met with six stu­dents who presented a list of demands that included the hir­ing of minority campus police officers and an apology for a delayed response. 
Several dozen students fol­
lowed Harre inside and staged an orderly sit-in but did not try to take over the building. 
Earlier, about 700 students, most of them white, had gath­ered at the Lutheran school's Chapel of the Resurrection. 
"We are here to stop racism on the campus of Valparaiso University," said black student leader Anthony McDonald. 
The students, clutching um­brellas and guided by student marshals wearing orange vests, walked several hundred yards across a grassy area to the administration building. The rally continued there while the student representatives met with Harre. 
Professor Julian Kunni, a black South African, told the students that racism has be­come "institutionalized" and cannot be challenged passively. 

GOING TO CHICAGO FOR FASTER? COME AND SEE: 
FREDDY JONES BAND 
WITH SPECIAL GUESTS 

FLYfRAP 

FRIDAY APRIL 17TH 1992 VIC THEATRE 3145 N. SHEFFIELD CHICAGO 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT VIC BOX OFFICE OR ANY TICKETMASTER OUTLET 
TICKET PRICE ONLY S&.OO 
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CALL 312-472-0449 DOORS OPEN 8:30 SBOWTIME 9:30 

THIS IS AN ALL AGES SHOW!!! 
The Observer page 3 
Ford closely examines Holy Week 
By JEANNE DE VITA 
News Writer 
Josephine Ford reflected on this Holiest of Weeks in the last of the Saint Mary's Lenten Series lectures yesterday. 
Ford explained a chronology for Holy Week that would locate Jesus's trial on Wednesday. If Jesus had been following the solar calendar, the feast of Passover might have fallen on Tuesday evening, according to Ford. 
Therefore, Jesus's arrest would have occurred on Tues­day night or early Wednesday morning. In accordance with the Jewish law which prohibited trying an accused party by night, before any witnesses could come forward, Jesus would then have been tried on Wednesday. 
Traditional Jewish law also would have prevented the pass­ing of death penalties until a night had passed after the ac­cused's trial, she said. As a re­sult, Jesus would have been condemned on Thursday and sent to Herod and crucified on Friday, according to Ford. 
She suggested that "this chronology is very possible." Ford then emphasized the Passion of Jesus. She said that 

in three of the synoptic Gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, "anointing by women cradles the passion." 
Ford explained that often the synoptic Gospels will juxtapose a subject and an event. This lit­erary device of framing an event with a subject calls greater attention to the event. 
Ford described the amazed silence at the washing of the feet that must have overtaken the disciples, whom Ford sug­gested included more than just the Twelve, but friends and women who had been preparing the meals that day. 
Ford called the washing of the feet "a pure act of friendship." 
"Friendship is the key to the passion," said Ford. Through the washing of the feet, Jesus put Himself on the level of a servant, making Himself vul­nerable to those He was serv­ing. 
Like the woman who anointed the feet of Jesus in "an act of extravagant friendship," Jesus also performed an act of extravagant friendship through washing the disciples' feet, she said. 
Ford spoke of Homer's def­inition of friendship: God draws people together in friendship. She cited John's Gospel which declares that people are no longer slaves, but friends. 
Looking at the Passion as an­other extravagant act of Jesus's friendship allows us to see that God knit His soul to humanity, empathizing with even the worst pain, as is experienced in death, according to Ford. 
Jesus went to "calamitous depths" for us, His friends, even making friends while He was dying on the cross with the thief who asked Jesus to remember him in Paradise, she said. 
Ford also described her views of Judas and suicide, discussing the mercy of God for those who commit suicide and her hopes that Jw:~as returned into Jesus's friendship. 
Finally, like Joseph of Arimethea , a timid follower who eventually bought about 100 pounds of spices for the body or tomb of Jesus, Ford advised her audience to "offer Jesus or people in need an act of extravagant friendship" during this season which cele­brates Jesus's friendship with humanity. 
Ford, one of the first women professors to join the male fac­ulty of Notre Dame in 1965, currently teaches New Testa­ment Studies. 
Russia may receive billions in aid 
WASHINGTON (AP} -The head of the International Mone­tary Fund said Wednesday that billions of dollars in aid to Rus­sia could begin flowing by July, but warned that the size of the package will be linked to the quality of the country's eco­nomic reforms. 
IMF Managing Director Michel Camdessus suggested that his agency and the World Bank stood ready to provide about $45 billion over four years to Russia and the other former Soviet republics. 
But he said it was critical for the republics to maintain steady progress toward free-market economies, warning that any doubts raised about the economic reform effort would cause the West to reconsider its commitments. 
"The magnitude of the dis­bursement will depend on the strength of the (economic re­form} program," Camdessus told reporters. "The stronger the program, the stronger the financing will be." 

Camdessus stressed that his estimates of aid were only ball­park figures. But they repre­sented the first glimpse oft1cials have been willing to provide of the amount of Western assistance being contemplated in coming years for the 15 former republics. 
Camdessus said that the IMF was looking at providing $25 billion to $30 billion to Russia and the other republics through 1995. That would be in addition to $12 billion to $15 billion the World Bank expects to make available over this period, he said. 
President Bush earlier this month announced a $24 billion assistance package for Russia. That amount included a $6 bil­lion fund to stabilize the ruble and $18 billion to help the Rus­sians buy critically needed im­ports. 
Of the $18 billion, $6 billion is expected to be provided by the IMF and World Bank, with the rest coming from rich Western countries -including the 
CAMPUS REPS WANTED 
To market ourprograms on campus. 
The perfect job for those bound for graduate school! Look at tpe advantages: 
• 
Generous compensation! 

• 
Work on your campus! 

• 
Set your own hours! 

• 
Earn BIG commissions! 

• 
Have fun while you work! 

• 
Earn a FREE LSAT, GMAT, GRE or MCAT Prep Course! 


United States, Germany and Japan -in the form of direct aid, loan guarantees and res~:heduling old debt. 
Camdessus said his estimate of $20 billion for the other re­publics this year would be com­posed of the same types of as­sistance that were being offered to Russia. 
Camdessus said the world has a tremendous stake in a suc­cessful transition not just in terms of a reduced military threat but also in terms of eco­nomic prosperity. 
He estimated that output in the former Soviet Union fell by 17 percent last year because of the turmoil. 
He said halting that decline and boosting growth in the area to 4 percent annually would raise worldwide growth by 2 percentage points. That growth is estimated this year at just 1.4 percent. 
"In our interdependent world, growth in any country is linked to growth in all through trade," he said. 
Houses for 
Rent9Z-93 
Fully Furnished urity Systems 


Z87·4989 
Save szso.oo with this AD* *new renters only 

C 02Sq iG\f'iC =.~8 ...,(T ·~ lil--, ..Ja•ur11 page 4 The Observer Thursday, April 16, 1992 
The irony of the case is that co-workers were on the job as the litigation process that began usual.




Awards Kmiec Libya
to eliminate racism from public The man, who is from education now perpetuates it in Louisiana, spoke on condition
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 continued from page 1
public education. The type of that his name not be used for racism prior to Brown v. Board At the United Nations, theSe­fear of reprisals.
found that the school districtdegree from the Law School in that was in the spotlight was curity Council met and set up a "Everyone's pretty muchhad completed four out of the1991. He is currently complet­racial exclusion. Kmiec said, committee to monitor enforce­staying put," he said.

six criteria, so federal court

ing work on a double masters '"Today, the race that people ment of the sanctions. "Everybody's just a little bit
supervision ended in four ar­in law and peace studies. eas, yet continued on in the ar­are concerned with seeks Libyan leader Col. Moammar down, the Americans are a 
An assistant rector at Alumni unattainable appropriate racial Gadhafi spoke by telephone little bit down, the way their

eas concerned with facilities

Hall since 1989, Loesch has balances.' with Egyptian President Hosni government's acting, sayingand faculty assignment. 
served with the President's 
This means that each indi­Mubarak about efforts to re­they can't come here and work,Willie Eugene Pitts, a namedTask Force on Evangelization, vidual school should mirror the solve the crisis, Libya TV said. whatever."
student for DeKalb county, did

Pastoral Ministry and Social not want this step by step re­racial composition of that city. Life appeared to go on as Travelers booked in advance 
Values, and with the Loan As­However, people do not choose normal in Tripoli despite went to Tripoli's airport, hoping 
lease from court supervision

sistance Committee. 
to live, work or recreate that Libya's growing isolation. Traf­they could depart as planned.
and took action by declaring aLoesch has also worked with way. As a result, federal judges fic was normal. About 250 Africans milled

suit against Robert Freemen,

the Center for Social Concerns will assign policies on the basis A few cars still displayed about at one point.
superintendent of the DeKalb

in the Summer Service Project of race to counteract innocent ribbons "We're waiting for someone
County school district. However, black on radio
and with the Notre Dame En­decision making. antennas, left over from a to tell us if we will fly or not,"even tl;wugh the courts said
counter retreats and the Holy 
Justice Anthonin Scalia, the nationwide protest Tuesday said Timothy Akamimbo, one ofthat school districts could beCross Associates. 
only member of the Supreme over U.S. air raids on Libya six about 80 Ghanaian workers. 
released on a step by step basis Off campus, he served as a Court to speak out against the years ago, but the black Nations around the world

from regulation, this will be

deputy probation officer in Col­Court's decision, addressed the mourning clothes were gone. heeded the call to isolate Libya. 
difficult, thus granting Pitts'orado and as a volunteer at the irony that it is time that Amer­There are 1 million Belgium, Denmark, Italy,wish.

Center for the Homeless in 
ica remembers that Constitu­foreigners in the nation of 4.2 Japan, Sweden, Germany andThis is due to the court opin­South Bend. 
tion requires equal access, not million people, but many said France asked Libyan diplomats ion that suggests no trial court
Clark and Loesch will be 

access to racially equal schools. they felt no fear over the to leave, and countries across
should release schools from

honored at a noon luncheon 
Kmiec said, "Until the court on international confrontation and Europe and the Middle Eastpart regulation if it will slowApril 24 at the Center for Con­the whole understands that, we did not plan to flee. canceled all flights to Tripoli.
down or impede their good faith 

tinuing Education during a 
are stuck with federal court An American employee of the Switzerland said it will join into meet the other requirements. 
joint meeting of the Alumni As­supervision in our schools that Panamanian D and G Oil Field the sanctions despite its tradi­
Kmiec said, "Federal judges

sociation's Board and Senate. 
spends educational dollars on Services Co. near Ajdabia, 700 tion of neutrality. Washingtonwill be very reluctant to release litigation, instead of for educa­miles east of Tripoli, said he does not have diplomatic rela­school districts from regulation, tional purposes." and about 50 other American tions with Tripoli. 
even in part." 


United 
continued from page 1 
"Your local United Way is ac­countable to its donors for ev­ery penny.... Our books are open for review at any time," he said. 
All local United Ways are planning to make their dues payments to the national office as scheduled, Beauchamp said. 
The United Way of St. Joseph County did not consider any al­ternatives as drastic as the agency in Milwaukee, which announced Wednesday that it would cut off all ties with the national office, Beauchamp said. 
The benefits that the local agency gets from the national offiee, including training semi­nars, use of United Way logos and symbols. and the television commercials featuring the Na­tional Football League, "far outweigh what we pay for them," he said. 
Beauchamp also pointed to the purchasing power that the local agency gets by being as­sociated with an organization as large as the United Way. "Without this purchasing power our impressively low operating costs would certainly increase." 
This year the United Way of St. Joseph County is asking for $668,000 more than last year, which will cover 13 new pro­grams, according to Beauchamp. 
Beauchamp urged all poten­tial donors not to abandon the United Way simply because of this controversy involving the national office, since the agency has more people in need of its services now than ever before. 
"The United Way is still the best way to help the tens of thousands of people who need help the most in our greater Michiana community," he said. "We are still proud of our ex­cellent traek record." 
Honoring afriend or loved one has never been easier. 

1-800-242-8721 

The American Heart 
Association Memorial Program 
An Investment in Life. 


r---------------------------~-----------------------~ ~--­
Thursday, April 16, 1992 The Observer pageS 




Buchanan told to end challenge 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Re­publican party leader Rich Bond issued an ultimatum Wednesday to GOP challenger Patrick Buchanan: end his can­didacy before the June 2 Cali­fornia primary or be denied a role at the Republican National Convention. 
"He's got to get out of the race, he's got to endorse the president, he's got to campaign for the president," Bond said. 
The chairman of the Republi­can National Committee said at a breakfast meeting with re­porters and later in an inter­view with The Associated Press that Buchanan should quit the race once he becomes mathe­matically eliminated. 
That could happen as early as May 5. Bush currently has 963 of the 1,105 delegates needed for the nomination. Buchanan, who has not won a single pri­mary, has 54. 
Bond's comments brought a sharp response from Angela Bay Buchanan, the conservative commentator's sister and cam­paign manager. 
"Tell Little Richard we'll see him in Orange County," she said in a written statement. 
"He of all people should know that threats and innuendo are no way to approach Pat Buchanan and certainly no way to appeal to the Buchanan Bri­gades," the statement said. 
Buchanan, campaigning in Sacramento, Calif., on Wednes­day, renewed his vow to con­tinue his campaign through the California primary. 
"They say (I'm) losing the delegate count, and they're right," the conservative televi­sion commentator said at a rally. "Presidential primaries are about more than delegate counts and nominations. They are about where we're going as a nation. 
"Even if we lose in the dele­gate count, we can win in this national debate. We are battling to take our party back. We are making progress. Our demands are being met. We are bringing our party and our president home," he said. 
Earlier this week, Buchanan warned there would be "a big uproar" from conservatives if he is denied a prime-time speech at the .convention. 
Bond said Wednesday he wouldn't even consider dis­cussing a Buchanan address to the August 17-20 convention unless Buchanan meets his three demands: pull out, back Bush and campaign for Bu!'!h. 
He said Buchanan's continued candidacy can only hurt GOP unity and Bush's fall campaign. 
"It would not be helpful to run a whole lot of negatives out there in California, with its 54 electoral votes, and i would not like to see Pat do that," he said. "When he's mathematically eliminated, I'd like to see him ... · get out of the race." 
Bond and Buchanan have clashed before. Buchanan has even called for the RNC chair­man's resignation, citing fa­voritism to Bush. 
But Wednesday's ultimatum was Bond's most specific and pointed warning yet. 
"Why on earth" should Re­publicans give Buchanan the right to address the convention "until Pat endorses the presi­

Holy Cross sophomore Bob Sieren and Saint Mary's sophomores 
dent?" said Bond. "He's got no 

Elizabeth Martin and Kasey Hall pack up the trunk as they prepare to
legal standing at the conven­

head home and spend Easter in Iowa.
tion." 

Clinton hits Calif. with look of a nominee Experts are at odds over 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Bill Clinton began his primary cam­paign in Jerry Brown's state Wednesday with the look of a nominee, attacking President Bush, refraining from direct criticism of Brown and dis­cussing a running mate. 
"I believe that the time has come for me to try to take the challenge of this election year back to the president and to try to give the issues in this elec­tion back to the people," Clinton told a news conference in Los Angeles' Chinatown, where he was endorsed by Asian­American political leaders. 
The Democratic front-runner focused his criticism on Bush and Congress, saying Ameri­cans have grown tired of "politicians squabbling over the particular issues" instead of focusing on matters that most affect people. 
Clinton singled out Bush's move this week toward restrict­ing union dues for campaign purposes as an example of the president acting only for politi­cal purposes. 
"It was just a grandstand ploy to try to turn working people into (siding with) union and anti-union instead of unifying workers to get the incomes of the American people up again," 
he said. Clinton refrained from criti­


impact of DNA fingerprinting
cizing Brown, the former Cali­fornia governor and head of the state Democratic Party. He instead looked beyond primary season and discussed qualifica­tions for a running mate in the fall. 
"I have not been nominated yet," Clinton reminded 400 stu­dents at a San Fernando Valley high school. "What I have done is to begin to think seriously about what sort of person ought to be vice president, and how that person would relate to me, and how that person would relate to the American people." 

deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA, in every cell. Only identical twins should have the same pattern. 
The research council's panel said DNA typing can be a reli­



Graduate into 

able way to identify criminals and exonerate innocent sus­pects. But it recommended na­

your own 

car. SUMMER STORAGE! 
AS LOW AS $5.78 PER MONTH!
Sfted4{ ~a-tel 7M 4~U1Uted 7U~te (')H4/ 

8.65% :PR 
Maximum Term-60 months 
We'll even give you deferred payments until August 15, 1992 
(please bring an offer letter from your future employer and your acceptance letter). 
To help with your relocation, we also have: MasterCard 14.92%* APR $10 annual fee 
* Rates subject to change without notice. Members must meet qualifications. 

• Parties • Sales Meetings 
0 
• Weddings • Plain Good Times 
• Reunions • Escape (No Phones, No TV) 
259-6080 ~eg. Schedule 
1 Tues./Sun. 2-4-7-9 P.M.
NOTRE DAME 


tionwide standards for labora­tory procedures for analyzing the samples of blood, semen or hair found at crime scenes. 
The report said judges -not juries -should decide whether testing flaws are so serious that the DNA evidence should be ignored in a criminal trial. 
Many courts now admit into evidence the results of chal­lenged DNA tests but instruct jurors to decide whether a flaw is serious enough to undermine the reliability of the finding. 
Jeff Brown, a public defender in San Francisco, said the re­port "should cool the enthusi­asm for this sort of evidence. It really says 'don't be bowled over by these tests and these test results. Pause, take a look at it.~ 
But a member of the NRC panel, U.S. District Judge Jack Weinstein of New York City, disagreed. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Legal experts were at odds Wednes­day over the impact of a federal research panel's endorsement of the use of genetic evidence in criminal trials. 
While the National Research Council embraced the technique known as DNA fingerprinting, it also urged in its report Tuesday that judges exercise caution about the testing methods used before admitting any results into evidence. 
The issue revolves around the finding that everyone, carries a unique genetic pattern in 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION Available lor Summer Session? (219) 239-6611 
Caii•••Crew Persons Needed! 
Independent of the University 

Marine erlence Neces~!!llt_, 

----­-~­ 
page 6  The Observer  Thursday, April 16, 1992  

Barbara Bush out-earns husband 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Profits 

from the best-seller "Millie's 
Book" pushed the income of 
President Bush and his wife, 
Barbara, to $1.3 million last 
year, according to tax returns 
released Wednesday. They gave 
more than half the money to 
charity and paid $204,841 in 
federal taxes. 
The first lady's book, pur­porting to be told through the eyes of her pet spaniel, earned $889,176 more than quadruple the president's salary of $200,000. 
After deducting taxes, she donated $789,176 to the Bar­bara Bush Uteracy Foundation. 
In contrast, the president's autobiography, "Looking For­ward," produced $2,718 in profits, and half of that was paid to his literary agent. 
Commenting on the over­whelming preference for Mrs. Bush's book over the presi­dent's, White House press sec­retary Marlin Fitzwater said jokingly, "This is somewhat embarrassing, but the presi­dent's taking it very well." 


Composer pays record sum for painting 
Barbara Bush 
Vice President Dan Quayle and his wife, Marilyn, released returns reporting payment of $45,271 in taxes on income of $181,652. 
Despite the president's oppo­sition to federal financing of congressional campaigns, both Bush and his wife earmarked $1 of their taxes for a presi­dential campaign fund that will give him $55.2 million for the general election. 
Aside from his White House salary, Bush and his wife re­ported $197,047 in income 

LONDON (AP) -Andrew Lloyd Webber, composer of the hit musicals "Cats" and "Phantom of the Opera," paid $17.7 million Wednesday for an 18th-century painting of Lon­don by Antonio Canaletto. 
Christie's auctioneers said the price was a record for the artist and for any Old Master painting in London. 
The price exceeded the $10.3 million paid in 1985 by the Getty Museum for Mantegna's "Adoration of the Magi." 
The view of the Horse Guards parade ground off Whitehall is regarded as the finest work of the Italian artist while he lived in Britain. The meticulously de­tailed people and buildings make it a microcosm of London life in the 17 40s. 
Canaletto is best known for his paintings of Venice. 
Lloyd Webber, 44, is an avid art collector with a personal fortune estimated at $500 mil­lion. 
Christie's did not identify the seller. 
The picture was bought by the Earl of Radnor from Canaletto's London studio. It from a blind trust containing holdings dating from his days as a Texas oilman. They also reported $1,151 in interest and $1,359 from other sources. 

Their adjusted gross income totaled $1,324,456, from which they claimed itemized deduc­tions of $669,484. Altogether, they gave $818,803 -nearly 62 percent of their earnings ­to 48 charities. 
Since federal Jaw restricts charitable deductions to 50 percent of adjusted gross in­come, the Bushes have a $156,575 carryover that can be taken over the next five years. 
The federal taxes they paid ­$204,841 -amounted to 15 percent of their income. 
Aside from their federal tax, the Bushes paid $4,190 in state taxes from investments of their blind trust. The Bushes are ex­empted by law from local taxes in the District of Columbia. Moreover, they claim their legal voting residence and domicile are in Texas, which imposes no personal-income or capital­gains tax. 
was bequeathed on his death in 1757 to James Harris, a House of Commons legislator and the picture descended in Harris's family. 
London dealer David Mason said the painting would be for Lloyd Webber's private collec­tion but he would make it available to public view. 
British art museums had sought to acquire the painting to prevent it leaving the coun­try. 
The Tate Gallery wanted it but was unable to get pledges of more than $10.5 million. 


Winnie Mandela resigns from ANC 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -Winnie Mandela on Wednesday resigned from a top post in the African National Congress amid renewed allegations that she was involved in assaults and murder. 
Her resignation as head of the black opposition group's social welfare department came after her husband, ANC President Nelson Mandela, an­nounced Monday that the cou­ple would separate after 34 years of marriage. 
Mandela said the separation had nothing to do with his wife's political troubles. But the two announcements seemed to signal the end of a long, turbulent political career for Mrs. Mandela. 
News reports and political analysts say other ANC leaders wanted Mrs. Mandela ousted to preserve the organization's reputation as it negotiates a new constitution with the white government. 
At a news conference Wednesday, Mrs. Mandela said she remained committed to the ANC but thought it best for the organization and her family to leave the post. 
Mrs. Mandala did not say if she would give up her elected position on the ANC's govern­ing National Executive Committee. 
"Nothing can make me waiver in my commitment to my organization, to my husband," Mrs. Mandela, 57, said in a calm voice. 
"The decision is not because of the false allegations against 

me but because of the devotion 
I have for the ANC and my 
family," she said. 
She defiantly maintained she was innocent of wrongdoing, calling recent accusations a "eampaign of vilification." 
ANC Secretary General Cyril 
Ramphosa said Mrs. Mandala's 
resignation was "in the best in­
terests of the organization." 
Mrs. Mandala's appointment to the social welfare post in 1990 angered some ANC mem­bers. At the time she was already at the center of allegations surrounding the 1988 kidnap and assault of four young black men in Soweto. 
Mrs. Mandela was charged and convicted in May 1991 of kidnap and accessory to as­sault. She was sentenced to six years in prison and is free pending appeal. 
Throughout the trial, the Mandelas resisted calls for Mrs. Mandala's resignation from the social welfare post and maintained her innocence. 
But two co-defendants re­cently have said they lied in court to protect her and alleged she was present during the assaults. One of the victims. 14-year-old Stompie Seipel, was killed. A former bodyguard of Mrs. Mandela was convicted of his murder. 
The co-defendants also have alleged Mrs. Mandala ordered the killing of a doctor who would have been a key witness in the case. The doctor, Abo­Baker Asvat, was slain in his office two weeks after the ab­ductions. 
WE'RE PUTnNG DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS. 
PartnershiP for a Drug-Free Amen·ca 
Flower Delivery: 7 Days 


fl@'SY .f.\ ~ttk 
Super Saver prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 
(219)277-1291
51400 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 Phone answered 24 hrs. 



Thursday, April 16, 1992 The Observer page 7 

Gorbachev welcomed to Japan 
TOKYO (AP}-He came, he Such sums would boost al­also would receive a consider­spoke, and he will go home a ready bountiful earnings that able contribution from a large richer man. Gorbachev is set to earn in pri­Buddhist sect. 
One year after becoming the vate life. "That report is absolutely first Soviet leader since World Russia's TV news show groundless," said Takemoto War II to visit Japan, former "Vesti" recently estimated that Iinuma, the foreign editor of the Soviet President Mikhail Gor­his outside income, mainly from country's best-selling paper and bachev is making a triumphant books and articles published Gorbachev's main host in return, only this time for a abroad, could total as much as Japan, the Yomiuri Shimbun. price. $10 million a year. Others say Takeo Hashimoto, a 
Halfway through a 12-day the true figure is probably far spokesman for the Asahi Shim­visit with his wife, Raisa, Gor­less, but easily could reach sev­bun, the second-largest news­bachev already has had meet­eral hundred thousand dollars. paper, also denied the Pravda ings with everyone from Em­Gorbachev also draws a report, but acknowledged the peror Akihito and Prime Minis­monthly pension of 4,000 rubles paper will be paying Gorbachev ter Kiichi Miyazawa to media -about four times the average to join an international forum it moguls and Mickey Mouse. Russian salary -and an sponsors. 
Crowds have packed audito­undisclosed salary from the "We are offering him what we riums to hear his speeches, Gorbachev Foundation, the believe is within the realm of which are dominated by the think tank he heads. common sense," Hashimoto themes he chose during his his­Aides say he donates sub­said. "We would not consider toric visit as Kremlin chief a stantial sums to charities each the amount reported by Pravda year ago -increased aid and month. to be within that realm." patience regarding a territorial While refusing to disclose his Iinuma said the Yomiuri is dispute that has long chilled bi­earnings in Japan, Gorbachev's picking up the tab for the Gor­lateral relations. hosts denied a report last week bachevs' travel and social ex­
Sources contacted by The As­in Pravda, the former Commu­penses while here. And he said sociated Press estimated Gor­nist Party newspaper, that Gorbachev, who in January bachev could go home Gorbachev was being paid signed an exclusive contract to 
Observer file photo 

$300,000-$400,000 richer. His $500,000 each by Japan's two contribute columns to the 
Ex-Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, here at a press conference in 
hosts refuse to officially confirm largest newspapers. Yomiuri, also is receiving a 
Reykjavik, Iceland, is now making a speaking tour of Japan. 
or deny the figures. The report said Gorbachev speaking fee. 
Debate intensifies as first execution in 25 years approaches 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -be the first since 196 7. case, planned to release his de­trivance he helped construct. The only limit is that the state While Gov. Pete Wilson consid­Gov. Pete Wilson held a cision. During Brown's two terms in Supreme Court must approve ers whether to allow Califor­closed-door clemency hearing In his book "Public Justice, office, 59 people were executed clemency for any twice­nia's first execution in a quarter for Harris on Wednesday. Private Mercy," ex-Gov. Ed­and he granted clemency to 23. convicted felon, such as century, a former governor It concluded after medical mund "Pat" Brown recalls how In his 1989 book, written with Harris. recalls a story about why he experts and a relative of the a plumber serving time for Dick Adler, he tells how many of Eventually, Brown decided the finds no value in capital pun­condemned killer urged Wilson robbery was among those the reprieved went on to lead death penalty was a bad idea. ishment: a prisoner who built to spare Harris because abuse drafted to build the San Quentin blameless lives, while one mur­"I just don't believe the death his own death chamber. he received as a child was to gas chamber in 1937. He dered a woman and was exe­penalty is a civilized treatment 
The debate whether the death blame for his later actions. helped install it and watched cuted. of a crime," the former gover­penalty works as a deterrent to Relatives of two teenagers he test pigs being executed. The state Constitution simply nor said by telephone from his crime has taken on new ur­killed said Harris should die. But the grisly task didn't have allows the governor to grant a Southern California home. gency in California, since dou­There was no indication when much affect. Within a year, the commutation, reprieve or par­But proponent Walter Burns ble murderer Robert Alton Wilson, a death penalty advo­plumber was paroled, killed don to any prisoner without the of the Washington-based Harris is scheduled Tuesday to cate who has expressed frus­three members of his family, requirement of a hearing, American Enterprise Institute become the 195th person to die tration in the past over the was sentenced to death and though they have become stan­says capital punishment is nec­in the gas chamber. He would lengthy appeals in the Harris breathed his last in the con-dard practice. essary. 

II I 
ttl' 
My name. is G-rqnt qnd my ~orYI qnd t::Qd GWf\ ttk Notrt:-DqfYit ropa -John's. Amy (-from +ht Dbse.rvtr) 15 he.lp1ng rne.. wr1tt. rh1? be.c.a.L~5e.. 
1 can+ ~\In f-e_ +co we.II yd. 
F1r?-t 1 tMnk-y9u F1qh'hn.B In<,h :;+ude.rd-s, -tacw_lty and stait t'cr heJp~n~ to nw..~~ u-s one. of the +co stores tn the_ fhpxJ J'ohn-5 orqOJ\1­-za-hon. 0Y College. fund 1-s _91owing ana mo."-/ b~ _L W1ll ge.+ tD go fu Not(c. Dame 1 foo.) 
~m W~"lhhq i-h1-s fOr 0.11 of you who 
hove_ Qomme.nt-{d Of\ our ~·P')co1hpen+or5 
lt:*er cwJhJ/e. back. As ~ou po1 n+ed ou f-) 
he. SQ.Id he. wanf-c:d +o q,ve. yow o.ll the. -fqc.ts, but he d1dn '+ .1'1\ +ry to. 
I. 'My morn'-, Or19i nal qd Wqs to fXJlnf out. iha+ ''+he.{' V..J~re. r~nn1f\3 ''their'' rned1 urn (rz') -:prz.-za<S -for the. SQme. price. qs our Iarg e... (Itt') 
p·rz-zQ5 . She 0\-so noted d, ·ads +ky . We.re_ .· rllhntllq a) C1 low~r pr1ce.. bul wj I~ md-ed port1vf)~ or D) 'd I~LtJer pr1c:~ bu+-Lu/ ~e.rfo1n ..+opp,~·ngs, She. wosn..f C.ompar 1{)9 +he ?1-z<... oF -Hiir lorqe. Cis··) -fD our larqe. . 
:J. ye5, th-e_y se.t q :30 mn. deqd/u/e... qnd l'Je.. don'~. vJe. doni for d. very qood r~::a~ct'l-:1: 
o) CU+houqh we_ VJowld olw o.ys rikc: ·tr.) ru.n ;:,o m1 r1 ~· -. 'So me.+ in: c) ~·J p_' r -e 'So 'cu <; y , ~.w_ ;u"::>t Oatl't, Ond It ffiaf meqns we. run 
{oop>) 

~b-4S m1f'\S 1n Drde1r fv ~ g1ve yoL/ 
o. freshly made) +lOT pi-z-z.q 1 1-h-en we. do -thqt. b) our dr1Ve1'5 sof-c:+y r~ mo~c: imporiant thon Qn e.xfrq 5-IO IY\in .5 1n order +o run 30 mins. (Plus, i+ ke~ps U-:5 on qood ie(ms Wl.th ih-t. -po11ce depl-.) 
Lqsl-ly {1-s_+hat ~ word?) t-he :Ompet-ition IS Gt lrttle m1xeci up Wit-h regard -to Why we. g,·ve.. you the tub? o-F gati'II.C butter. Although Sorf\e. ~pie rno..y poL!r ihe garlic. butfer on the. pt-z.:zq, the 9orlt·c bu-tter tub-s ore. for dipp1nq +he. cru'Sts in. S1nce. Some locot1on-s of -the: ··ccmpe_ti t-,·on · oIreadLj Cor r~ ~ar lie. SQuce. (just l1ke L6\ I hope. +he::~'' -t,·gure. ,t out. 
Those Ore. +he. ~ac:h Thc5e. Ond the.. 
-Pod-+nat ·'Popa :John~ ·-p,va Ji be.com1n9 tht:. p12-zq of chc1ce.. for Notre l.'tlma-s ThOn~s ago.in Oll c-f you I yoLJ vnake 
0t II tht. hou r<J rr.y Mom and Dad vJork ­worth ,r-1. 

Grant fatton 
.P-5. 

fD5ter Hot.Jr5 ~I_ ')A-1 -(-tl I.CIOarn) 
$u.n-( (p:uo to 12 oo.'"') 

__ ...... 
-~ ._.;..... ' ;4_.. _.. ; ~ .--.... ~ .• _...~--.--·..': 









Business 
page 8 Thuffida~April 16,1992 

) 
"""""' ...•. / j I 



I 
The Observer/ John Bingham Professor Richard Sheehan of the Finance Department discusses the globalization of United States manufacturing industries. Sheehan presented his opinions after the showing of "The Global Assembly Line" by the College of Business Tuesday night. 
Low property values add to U.S. fiscal problems 
By ANGELA HELLWIG 
Business Writer 
Declining property values have contributed to the finan­cial crisis many U.S. cities face today, according to Professor Andrew Reschovsky of the Uni­versity of Wisconsin. 
Heschovsky said the cities most affected by the decrease in property values are those that experienced rapid property value increases in the late 1980s. 
Heschovsky addressed the impact of falling property val­ues in relation to other prob­lems faced by major U.S. cities in a lecture Monday titled, "Will Falling Property Values Create a New Financial Crisis for Ci­ties'?". 
Heschovsky said that falling property values by themselves may have a relatively small im­pact on some cities fiscal prob­lems. 
"Other factors such as the in­crease of crack and cocaine crimes, the spread of AIDS, the rise of the homeless, and reduc­tions in federal aid to city gov­ernment have made fiscal con­ditions of cities even worse," he said. 
Heschovsky said that one possible solution to declining property values may be to in­crease property taxes. He added that city officials are re­luctant to implement such a policy "because of the desire of city officials to remain competi­tive with their suburban com­munities and because of the rising political costs of increas­ing taxes." 
Spending cuts may be another solution, Reschovsky said. "Although there are ways that spending can be cut in cities, events such as the AIDS epi­demic that occur in the next decade are going to put upward pressure on spending." 
Heschovsky also discussed the importance of diversifying rev­enue sources. "There are cities such as Boston and Milwaukee that rely basically only on the property tax. There's no ques­tion about suggesting that these cities tap other sources of revenue." 
Another alternative Heschovsky proposed was to reassign functional responsibil­ities. lie said that, for example, he would like to see the Federal government take over Medicaid. 
Heschovsky said that he feels the prospect of more federal aid to cities in the future is slim. 
"Even if we had a change in the political environment, Congress has not been good at targeting aid. Past history doesn't allow one to be very op­timistic about the ability of Congress and the President to provide aid to cities where it is needed," he said. 


Panel discusses documentary 
By CARA ECKMAN 
Business Writer 
The College of Business on Tuesday presented the award winning PBS film, "The Global Assembly Line," which focused on the economic and human rights issues associated with the globalization of United States manufacturing industries. 

According to the film, off­shore or foreign based, produc­tion sites are increasing rapidly. By moving production and assembly plants to un­derdeveloped countries, manu­facturing corporations can substantially reduce their cost of labor The film provided the example of an off-shore plant in northern Mexico, where workers earn four dollars a day performing tasks for which American workers earn five dollars an hour. 
Although the film addressed the loss of American jobs caused by American plant clo­sures, it focused primarily on the conditions in off-shore plants. 
The film suggested that although off-shore manufactur­ing operations enable underde­veloped countries to attain a greater level of economic self­sufficiency, the conditions in off­shore plants represent vio­lations of human rights. In many cases, workers are ex­posed to health hazards such as overcrowding, toxic materials, and extremely long hours. 
At some off-shore plants, workers' organizations have formed to demand better condi­tions. The film portrayed sev­eral cases, though, in which corporations silenced workers' protests by threatening to relo­cate their operations. 
Following the film, a three­member panel shared their re­flections on the film and the problems of manufacturing globalization. Professor Helen Bowers of the Department of Finance and Business Eco­nomics introduced the panel which consisted of Professor Richard Sheehan, also of the Finance Department. Anthony Pinto, a student in the Master's of Business Administration program, and Connie Malloy, president of the local Oil, Chemical, and Atomic Workers. 
Professor Sheehan asserted that the film presented "a problem we've had since the outset of the industrial revolu­tion." According to Sheehan, manufacturing plants can relo­cate with ease, while plant workers are often tied to a par­ticular area by family, posses­sions, or the inability to afford relocation. 
As a result, plant owners possess an "unequal bargaining power," he said, which enables them to dictate salaries and working conditions with little opposition. 
Pinto, a native of Malaysia, agreed that the globalization of manufacturing creates a prob­lem of equality. "This movie does help familiarize us with the basic issues: Can there be a level playing field, and how do we achieve this level playing field," said Pinto. 
"When I watched this movie, my first reaction was, 'What person was I?' in that movie," he said. Pinto, who spent fif­teen years working at Shell Oil's off-shore plant in Malaysia, attested to the accuracy of the hazardous conditions presented in the film. "I worked with the workers at the plant. We had simple gas masks which were not effective," he said. 
Malloy addressed the prob­lems of worker organization which were presented in the film, saying, "Businesses and governments don't want unions. Workers then have some say over what happens in the work place, and they don't want that." 
According to Malloy, the film's portrayal of conditions in foreign manufacturing plants emphasizes the importance of worker solidarity. "We can't think what happens over there isn't going to happen here... the standard of living is dropping for all of us, and that goes hand in hand with the drop in labor unions," she said. 
Malloy added that in order to prevent the loss of American jobs caused by the relocation of plants to off-shore sites, Amer­ican workers must work to­gether to take power out of the hands of multinational corpo­rations. 
Sheehan argued that the so­lution to the problems of glob­alization is primarily the re­sponsibility of the industry leaders. ''I'm not convinced that the solution is imposing a new set of regulations," Shee­han said. "The introduction of ethics into industry manage­ment is what we have to have." 


Nationwide production rises slightly 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Production at the nation's factories, mines and utilities edged 0.2 percent higher in March, the government said in a report reflecting sluggish recovery. 
The slight rise in the Federal Reserve's index of industrial production followed a stronger 0.5 percent advance in February. They were the first back-to-hack gains since last June and July. 
However, the increases followed three declines and a month of no change. Also, total industrial output in March was 1 percent below the level in September. 
"I believe we're in a recovery, but it's very slow. It seems like the economy is moving two steps forward and one step back," said economist Evelina Tainer of Prime Economic Consulting in Chicago. 
"Our economy is so huge that it cannot turn on a dime like a sports car. It turns slowly and awkwardly. like an aircraft carrier," said economist John Albertine, a Washington-based consultant. 
Meanwhile, a Commerce Department report for February showed a 1.4 percent increase in business sales, the best in 10 months, and no change in business inventories. 

Economists took the combination as a positive sign for stronger economic growth by this summer. If sales stay strong, factories soon will be forced to increase production to restock empty shelves and backlots. 
"Many companies probably have depleted their inventories ... and that means they proba­bly are going to have to rebuild them in the months ahead," said et~onomist Bruce Steinberg of Merrill Lynch. "Couple that with increased demand and that points to production rising more strongly over the balance of the year than it did in February and March." 
The Federal Reserve said production in March was bolstered by a 2.1 percent jump in utility output, attributed largely to unseasonably chilly temperatures in many parts of the country. 
Factory production rose a scant 0.1 percent. Mining output, which indudes production at oil wells, fell 0.2 percent. 
Output of durable factory goods, big ticket items expected to last three or more years, rose 
0.1 percent while the output of non-durable goods increased 0.2 percent. 

UAW workers turned away as they return to Caterpillar plants 
EAST PEORIA, Ill. (AP) ­Thousands of United Auto Workers were turned away to­day as they tried to return to work at Caterpillar Inc. and end their five-month strike. 
The UAW and Caterpillar, the world's largest maker of earth­moving equipment, had agreed Tuesday that strikers should return to their jobs while con­tract talks proceed. 
Caterpillar said it needs about a week to decide how many workers to call back. Since the strike began with a limited walkout Nov. 4, management has said it can run its plants with 10 percent to 15 percent fewer workers. 
But the union told more than 12,000 workers they should re­port today to their jobs at Illi­nois plants in East Peoria, Mossville, Mapleton, Aurora, Pontiac and Decatur. 
As the company warned, the strikers were shut out of all plants. 

At Aurora, 2,100 returning strikers found their electronic security cards failed to open building doors, the union said. As guards sent them away, workers each were handed a letter telling them not to return until notified. 
"Before the wounds even heal, they'll stab you again," said George King, Aurora assembly worker and machinist for 19 years. 
At East Peoria, union officials took the names and identifica­tion badge numbers of employ­ees denied access to the plant. 
They said they planned to have members return every day until Caterpillar lets them in. 
Jim Despain, vice president and general manager at the large tractor assembly division in East Peoria, stood at the plant gate, trying to explain to workers that they should go home and await further word. 
"It's a high state of confusion because unfortunately the other side is communicating the wrong thing," he said. 
State police were on hand as cars circled the plant and dozens of union members stood outside. No confrontations were reported. 
The agreement to end the strike was negotiated Tuesday at the suburban Chicago offices of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. 
The strike drew wide atten­tion because of Caterpillar's ultimatum to workers April 6 to return to work or risk losing their jobs to non-union re­placements. 
The showdown represented the first time a major industrial company has tried to break a union of the 900,000-member UAW's size and strength. 
UAW bargainers voted unanimously Tuesday to return to work without conditions at the recommendation of Bernard DeLury of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Ser­vice, said UAW secretary-trea­surer Bill Casstevens. 
The union interpreted the recommendation to mean workers should be on the job 
today, Casstevens said. 
Caterpillar agreed to stop trying to hire replacements but will be allowed to put into effect its last contract offer, which raises top minimum pay from $35,318 a year to $39,915 in September 1994. The union wants $40,458 by then. 
"For now it is over," DeLury said in announcing the break­through after two days of meetings at the mediation agency's suburban Chicago of­fices. "And it took a lot of guts and a lot of courage on both sides." 
Negotiations under federal mediation will continue. 
"The war is not over," said Jerry Baker, bargaining chair­man for an East Peoria local. 


Viewpoint 
Thursday, April 16, 1992 Page 9 





P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ...•.•••Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor.................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager •.••.•Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ........•....••.•.•.. Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor..Anna Marie Tabor Controller........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
DICK ~E'Nll{AL~ 
AND •• • 
~ <9)~~

Dl &G-cR RES l6N ED? I 

Dear Editor: 

Tyler Farmer's mockery of an apology (The Observer, 9 April) flies in the face of the penalties assessed by the Senate and the Election Ethics Committee. The absolute lack of contrition and sneering tenor in his letter fur­ther underscore his contempt of the rights of others and the community's sanction of his behavior. 
This seems consistent with Mr. Farmer's prior actions, as his campaign literature reflected a similar reckless disregard for fact. Mr. Farmer's unfounded assaults on the people who worked hard to improve this community highlight not only his ignorance of what can be done on their behalf but his indifference to anyone's efforts but his own. Such selfish sub­ordination of the rights of others to one's own misguided ambition has no place in the Notre Dame family. 
The Election Ethics Committee did not find Mr. Farmer guilty of "absentmindedness"; they declared him negligent of his responsibilities as a candidate. Mr. Farmer's refusal to accept the nature of your offenses highlights his arrogance and disregard for those around him. 
The facts that I spent far too 
DOONESBURY 
OKAY, 
GUYS, 1:+1 R/JA[7'(. 
/ 


'Apology' mocks Student Senate Ethics Committee 
Dear Editor: 
When novelist Walker Percy was presented with the Laetare Medal at commencement in 1989, the official tribute in­cluded the following words: "You have looked with care on a sadly secularized society and seen a death wish in the asser­tion of a right to decide when human life is worthwhile and when it is not." 
Just three years later, this very same award, given annu­ally to a Catholic "whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the Church, and enriched the heritage of humanity," is being presented to Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a man who, despite his many notable achievements, has with distressing consistency little time campaigning, accu­mulated too much ill will in the presidential race, and made voters tired of hearing my name did not give Mr. Farmer any license to denigrate my efforts as Senator. Because I went quietly about my job without splashing my accomplishments in print did not make it acceptable for him to take ad­vantage of an under-informed populace to smear me for his own gain. 
Some people I have worked with in the past year may not like me at all, but none of them would make the same baseless, ludicrous claims about me that Mr. Farmer did without even bothering to meet me or inquire about my performance. 
Until Mr. Farmer owns up to the rash and offensive nature of his actions he deserves no recognition or respect from this community. His disrespect and insult to me, the Senate, the Election Ethics Committee, and the student body call into question his fitness to be a member of the Notre Dame family, let alone pretend to rep­resent any portion of it. 
David Certo 
Alumni Hall 
April 13, 1992 


Moynihan taints award's prestige 
Manor blessed to have Fr. Joe as rector 
fostered the alleged right to snuff out innocent unborn children, to literally (in the case of suction abortions) tear them limb from limb. 
What Percy was praised for deploring as an atrocity is somehow found tolerable when promoted by Moynihan. You figure it out. Apparently, the "ideals of the Church" turn out to be surprisingly flexible. 
In recent newspaper accounts of the controversy over faculty governance, we have read that the faculty cannot be trusted to preserve the Catholic character of Notre Dame. Perhaps this is true. (Maybe the faculty would have awarded the Laetare Medal to, say, Ted Kennedy or Dan Maguire or even Ellie Smeal herself.) But the Moynihan affair raises at least two relevant questions. 
First, what is this curious Catholic character, that the administration can alternately hide behind it when fending off the faculty and make a mockery of it when handing out the Laetare Medal? Second, assum­ing (perhaps contrary to fact) that the Catholic character of Notre Dame has something to do with the ideals of the Roman Catholic Church, why think that either the present University administration or the Congregation of Holy Cross is any more likely than the faculty to preserve it? 
Alfred J. Freddoso Professor of Philosophy April 14, 1992 
Dear Editor: 
The Observer displayed poor editorial judgement in publish­ing Jeremy Pollock's tirade against Morrissey Manor and Rector Joe Ross. Mr. Pollock's ad hominem charges are vague, unspecific, and wholly unsup­ported by any clear evidence or examples. Furthermore, they present a warped characteriza­tion that bears little resem­blance to Fr. Ross. 
Mr. Pollock criticizes Fr. Joe's "despotic rule"; however, we feel that Joe encourages us to behave as mature and respon­must all respect Joe's opinion, but he never insists that we agree with it. 
When discipline problems arise, rather than arbitrarily imposing penalties, he prefers that involved parties discuss the incident and settle it among themselves or with the student run Judicial board. Mr. Pollock's accusation that Joe has made the Manor over in his image is true only insofar as he has impressed upon us again the importance or our responsibilities. 
The tone of Mr. Pollock's letter leadership has stifled the fulfilling college experience. We cannot agree; in fact, we feel that knowing Joe has greatly enriched life in the Manor. Anyone who knows Joe, whether through Manor hoops or through intense late-night philosophical discussions, knows that we are fortunate to have Joe as rector. 
Chris Kanis Greg Piniak Reed Solomon Mike Dehring Joe Carrol Morrissey Hall 

sible a.ww"l---u.J.~.~<....~:W&JWU:......l:~-! ~------.-...,...!;lil"'' 113, 1992 
THE DAY 

'It in your heart, you know it's right, then give it your all-stand up and fight. For if you complain, and do nothing at all, then you deserve to take the fall.' 
Marsha L. Sisk Cook I, North Dining Hall 

When your egg cracks open, submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 





Viewpoint

Page 10 Thursday, April 16, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 

In the March 25th issue of The Observer a statement was printed in a fencing article about me. The statement read, "What could have been if former national champion Jubba Beshin would not have taken the year off to concen­trate on academics. . Although I do not know what could have been, I do know what was not. 
Contrary to the paper's statement, I did not leave the team to concentrate on aca­demics. My grades are fine and have been for the last three years. That idea is a propa­ganda tool used by the fencing coaches to cover up the truth. I left the team based on a per­sonal assessment of the three years I gave to the fencing team and the nonsense I received in return. 
My first semester at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame was overwhelming. I was taking eighteen credits, working a student job, and participating in the fencing program. As a result, by the end of the semester I found myself on academic probation. Under­standing my situation, the coaches told me that I should concentrate on getting my grades up so that I could be el­igible the following year. With much diligence I got my grades up, and in the process, helped the team prepare for the NCAA tournament by still attending practice. With this I had no problem. 
That summer I made numer­ous phone calls to the fencing coaches about possible schol­arship opportunities, but was told there was no money avail­able in the budget. OK, fine. 
Upon returning in the fall, I found three new fencers with scholarship awards. I was told they were great opportunities, and the coaches would have been remiss to have let them slip by. Besides, I had not yet produced results for the team. Maybe I should not have ex­pected any money. OK, fine. 
During the 1989-1990 sea­son, the Notre Dame fencing team fared very well. We were undefeated through the season and placed third at the NCAA tournament. Moreover, I also fared well by winning the Great Lakes Tournament and the Na­tional Championship. 
That summer, I once again pleaded my case for a scholar­ship; and once again, I was told it was simply not in the budget. When I returned to school that fall I learned of a new fencer with athletic assistance. I be­came very skeptical about my entire situation at this point. I felt I was being lied to. My parents were furious and wanted me Yet I stayed; only to withstand more punishment. 
That year (1990-1991 ) the team did very well again. We were undefeated and placed third at the NCAA tournament again. I won the Great Lakes Tournament for the second consecutive year and captured the silver medal at the NCM tournament. You can probably guess what happened that summer. I was in contact all summer with the coaches about scholarship possibilities. My family was really up against the wall. They really could not af­ford to take out any more loans. But once again it was not in the budget. 
I felt exploited and manipu­lated at that point, yet there was nothing I could do. I had no choice but to take out an­other loan. 
The final straw came when I returned to school in the fall 
Slick Willie and Sweet Hilary 

Slick Willie has fluffed up his blower-dried hair, He's knotted his smooth silken tie. Slick Willie is riding out into the night When he's spied by sweet Hilary's eye. 
Now where do you slither, slick Willie, my love, Perfume squirted under your arms? Once more do you flee from your own marriage bed To play with another's fresh charms? 
Will she tell you you're handsome and tell you you're brave And fondle your ego so fine? Make you happy to fondle her golden long hair No longer or blonder than mine? 
Sure I've baked you no cookies, I've served you no tea, Demurely still at your left hand. Yet for you I have thrown ofT my dear father's name, Schemed to make you the king of our land. 
For all of the people, both gentle and low, Recoil from a woman who's strong. But if I cannot sing in my own precious voice, I can still set the tune of the song. 
So I shall have nought of your slick lawyer lies; Save that for the press and the mob. I'll stand by my man and you keep your pants closed, And together we'll get us a job. 
Slick Willie has scurried back into his lair And downed him a stoop of strong ale. If ever I should go back to my old ways The next time I'll damned well inhale. 
by an Anon mous Professor 
and found that there was once again a new fencer with a scholarship award. My dignity was at stake and I refused to let the coaches misuse their au­thority on my life. I met with them and announced that if something was not done in re­gard to funding, I would be forced to leave the team. 
The excuses were endless and no scholarship money was "found" for me. So l relin­quished myself from the fencing team. 
A surprise came when the coaches came up with astound­ing new reasons why I did not receive money. I was accused of being selfish for wanting a scholarship solely because of my achievements. Also, I was reprimanded for only making it· to practice an average of three times per week. 
This is true; but I must tell why. I was juggling two jobs in order to pay for school. I most certainly had to stay in school. I guess it never occurred to the coaches that if I had a scholarship, I would not have had to work,and, miss practice. Hey, get a real excuse. 
I'm sure that I sound ex­tremely bitter; that is not the case. I am just a student ath­lete who became fed up with 

Bush's record not worthy of honorary NO Doctorate 
Dear Editor: 
Although I do not mind that President Bush is to deliver this year's commencement address at Notre Dame, I object most deeply to his being awarded an honorary Doctorate. An inspec­tion of Mr. Bush's transcript will show that he has not completed the minimum requirements for an advanced degree, and has violated several of the University's most sacred rules for graduate students. I will list a few of the major points: 
He has not labored 60 hours a week for six years at low pay in a cramped office or dangerous laboratory. 
Although he is married and has children, he has not been driven to bankruptcy by loop­holes in the Student Health Insurance policy. A major University requirement for married grad students is that they must demonstrate that they have been on the welfare rolls for at least half of their time at Notre Dame. 
He violated a University rule forbidding preventative health care by having precancerous tissue removed from his nose without paying for it out of his own pocket. 
He has not waited the requi­site six months beyond the termination of his stipend for his thesis committee to stop their petty infighting long enough to let him graduate. This is only a requirement in the Humanities. 

Neither he nor his spouse has had to work menial part-time jobs· to feed the children. 
During his time as a graduate student, his department's rules for submitting a thesis have only changed six times. The minimum allowed by the University is eight. 
He has not had his thesis ap­proved by the most distin­guished scholars in his field, only to find that the secretary in the Graduate School won't let him graduate on time because he used the wrong Laser Writer font. 
The Huddle is open whenever he is on Campus. 
I am disturbed that the Registrar would permit Mr. Bush to graduate despite his obviously deficient academic record. I urge the University to award Mr. Bush his degree "conditionally," until a full committee of total mutual ene­mies can be appointed to hear him defend his thesis. 
Francis J. Deck Grad Student/Physics April 4, 1992 
the treatment l was receiving. refused to be a victim for yet another year. The coaches of the fencing team took away something that had become a part of my livelihood, something l enjoyed doing. There is a history of others who feel the same way I do and who have endured similar ordeals. 
We were used for our talents, only to be discarded. 
Basically what the coaches did was change around their obvious crooked ways and at­tempt to lay the blame and guilt on me. I was told that my win­ning of an individual national championship did nothing for the team. I guess our third place finish at the NCAA tour­nament was an illusion. 
I participated in that accom­plishment and gave 100 percent of my efforts. What more could I have done? 
I really do not know what has been transpiring with the fenc­ing program these last few years. In my opinion, the fenc­ing program at the University of Notre Dame is a scandalous one, and should be considered for a little revamping. 
Jubba Beshin Dillon Hall April 10, 1992 

..------------~-------------------------~----­

Accent 
Thursday, April 16, 1992 page 11 

Festival celebrates 25 years of community and culture 
By JOE MONAHAN 
Accent Writer 
AnTostal. Gaelic for celebra­tion. 
And that's exactly what this year's AnTostal, April 21-26, plans to be, according to Matt Bomberger, this year's chair­person. 
It is "THE event of the year," said Bomberger. "A celebration of community and culture." 
Started in 1967 by the Hall President's Council, it was a two-day weekend program with a $25 budget. Since then, it has been put under the control of the Student Union Board and grown to what it is today-a six day gala event celebrating Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
With an approximate budget of $30,000, Bomberger said this AnTostal is "a new, better and bigger celebration. We've tried to bring in the multicul­tural side of Notre Dame. Several cultural groups are running events during the week of AnTostal." 
Opening Ceremonies will kick off Tuesday, April 21 at 3:30 
p.m. at Fieldhouse Mall. Student body president Greg Butrus and vice-president Molly O'Neill will reportedly attend in togas. "It (the ceremony) is nothing serious, just a fun time," said Bomberger. 
This year marks the twenty­fifth anniversary of AnTostal, and Bomberger said it promises to be the best one yet. Several new events have been added, as well as old ones re­vived. The celebration offers dorm competitions as well as individual events. 
The Quest for the Crown is an eleven event inter-dorm compe­tition that starts on Tuesday and concludes on Saturday. Dorms compete in a quest for the AnTostal Crown, a trophy for the dorm with the greatest Notre Dame spring spirit. 
The winning dorms (there is a male and female division-Saint Mary's dorms included) will receive a $250 gift certificate to University Park Mall (enough for a new VCR), as well as place prizes for individual events. 
Events for the Quest include Trivia Quest, Air Volleyball, Treasure Hunt, AirObstacle, Golf Tournament, Pasta Eating, Bike Race, Tricycle Race, Mattress Drag, and the Road Rally. 
The final event in the Quest is the mud Tug-0-War, in which the top two teams in each divi­sion will tug it out for first 
place  in  the  Mud  Pits  on  
Saturday.  
One  of the  most  popular  

events, according to Bomberger, is the Chariot Race, which will be held on Saturday. A traditional event of AnTostal, 

The Observer/ Andrew McCloskey 

In the AnTostal Mud Pits two years ago, Stanford Hall wins the traditional Chariot Race. This year dorms will 
compete in the pits Saturday, April 25. 
the Chariot Race and parade 
were brought back last year.  
"A dorm builds a chariot of  
their design and parades it  
from the Fieldhouse Mall to the  
Mud Pits. Led by the Ugly Man  
on Campus, if he chooses to  
show up, the chariots are then  
raced through the infamous  
Mud Pits. Mounted by one per­ 
son and pulled by four, the  
winning chariot takes home a  
trophy," said Bomberger.  
New events added this year  
are a Hot Pepper Eating con­ 
test, Taste of Hawaii, the  
AirObstacle course, The Spider  
Web (a velcro wall), Slow Bike  
Race, an Off-Road Bike race,  
Tricycle race, Hamburger  
Eating contest, and a Subway  
sub eating contest.  
The several eating contests  
will include Pizza (Domino's),  
Hamburger (Hardee's), Pasta  
(Olive Garden), Sub Sandwich  
(Subway). Licorice,  
Marshmallow, Hot Pepper, Pie,  
and Root Beer chugging.  
All events Thursday except  
the Neo•Geo challenge will be  
held at Saint Mary's. These  
events will include Jello  
Wrestling, a Notre Dame  
STUDS game, the Mr. Campus  
beauty pageant, and the Saint  
Mary's picnic and carnival.  ~  
"It (STUDS) is just like the  
game show," said Emilie Luna,  
Saint Mary's coordinator and  
Thursday chairperson. "The  
contestants have already gone  dining hall before they attend  
out on their dates, and we'll  the picnic, said Luna.  
find out what happened  
Thursday night."  Friday at Notre Dame, at 7:30  
p.m., AnTostal will be going for  
The picnic will be held on the  the "Simon Sez" record.  
library green, along with sev­ "We need around four thou­ 
eral carnival games (limbo and  sand people," said Bomberger  
dunking booth) as well the  "and hopefully we can get a  
sounds of campus bands,  representative from Guiness  
Dysfunction and Victoria's Real  [World Records] as well." The  
Secret.  winner takes home a new VCR.  
If Notre Dame students wish  This will be followed by a  
to eat, they must first get a Co­ speech by University president  
Ex (co-exchange) from their  Father Edward Malloy, and  


then Recess starts at nine. 
On Saturday, everything takes place at Stepan Field. Hogstock (campus bands jam) and Earth Day will last until 6 p.m., with Mud Pit activities throughout the day. A professional come­dian, Harley the Lunatic, will perform Saturday night in lieu of a band. 
Summing up AnTostal week, Bomberger said "[there's] a lot to be won, a lot to be eaten, a lot of fun to have." 

abridged calender of 
eventsfor the week of 
. April21~26 
Tuesday 

Opening Ceremonies 
3:30 p.m. Fieldhouse Recording Booth 12-6 p.m. Theodore's Hurricane 
3-6 p.m. Theodore's Pizza Eating Contest 
4:45 p.m. KOC Campus Bands 4-9 p.m. Fieldhouse 
Movie: Blues Brothers 8 &10 p.m. Cushing 

Wednesday 
SpiderWeb 12-6 p.m. Fieldhouse AirObstacle Course 12-10 p.m. Fieldhouse Hot Shot Contest 3 p.m. BB Courts Basketball Challenge 4-6 p.m. SB Courts Campus Bands 4-9 p.m. Fieldhouse AirBand/Lipsync 
6:30 p.m. Fieldhouse 
Movie: Ferris Beuler 8 &10 p.m. Cushing 

Thursday 

SMC Picnic 4:30-6:30 p.m. Studs 7 p.m. Angela Mr. Campus 7:45p.m. Angela 

Friday 

Real Long Sundae 3:30p.m. SDH LoudMouth/Burp Contest 
3:30 p.m. Rockne Father Malloy's Speech 8 p.m. JACC Recess 9 p.m.-12 a.m. 
Movie: Rocky Horror Midnight Stepan 

Saturday 

Morning Runs 9 a.m. Lakes Hogstock 10 a.m-6 p.m. Picnic 11 a.m.-1:30 p.m. Mud Pits 11 a.m.-3 p.m Harley the Lunatic 7:30p.m. Stepan 

Sunday 

Women's Bookstore 1 p.m. Stepan AU Star Game 2 p.m. Stepan Men's Bookstore 3 p.m. Stepan 
I I 
I 

j 
I 
I 

-~-------~-------------------------~---­

Accent
page 12 Thursday, April 16, 1992 
Music with a purpose 
Steve Miller performs at JACC for Earth Day {92 tour 
By MATT CARBONE participating. Accent Writer In addition, students can call the Earth Action Line (1-900-454­
From Sting for Amnesty STEVE) which costs $1 per minute, International to John Mellencamp and leave their questions and input for Farm Aid, rock stars have long about the environment for Steve championed their pet causes. Miller. Likewise, Steve Miller will perform The concert is sponsored by at the JACC on April 16 as part of Concerts For the Environment his Earth Day '92 Tour. (CFE). a national non-profit 
The Steve Miller Band, whose hit corporation. CFE's goal is to effect singles include "Fly Like an Eagle," positive environmental and social "The Joker," and "Abracadabra," change through the combination of 
has embarked on a -----------music and edu­month-long tour 'S · cation. In the past,that aims to educate peCieS are CFE has sponsored college students beCOming extinct James Taylor, the about the every day. It's BoDeans, and the 
environment and F a b u I o u s 
motivate them to unsustainable. It's Thunderbirds. s u P P o r t insane, and We CFE is also under environmental con-know it.• writing the National cerns. "Species are Earth Day '92 
becoming extinct -Steve Miller Concert, which will 
every day," said take place at Miller. "It's Foxboro Stadium in unsustainable. It's insane, and we Boston on April 25. This concert know it." will feature 12 diverse acts (last 
During the concert, booths will year, 10,000 Maniacs, Queen be set up inside the JACC; Latifah, and the Indigo Girls were concertgoers will have the among the acts to perform), as opportunity to send postcards to well as climax Miller's own tour. different environmental groups for If you're interested in helping the information. The Nuclear environment, or are just about to Information and Resource Service, go into withdrawal because you which provides information and haven't heard "The Joker" in three education on how to challenge days, come to the Thunderdome policies that support waste dump-tonight and check out The Steve ing, is one of many agencies Miller Band. 
f 

King's latest fuses new 
horror with old haunts 
By JIM MALLOY town of Castle Rock inexorably towards Literary Critic self-destruction. Gaunt is a virtuoso of orchestrating such sublime chaos. "You've been here before. Sure you When Stephen King has a villain this have." evil to work with, his writing is at its 
With this assertion, Stephen King best. Consider this exchange between begins his fond, if somewhat fatal, Brian and Gaunt, describing a dream farewell to the fictional town of Castle Brian has about Sandy Koufax (or is Rock. it?): 
Castle Rock is the small town where Joe Camber's dog "Cujo" went rabid, "'You see, it's not just a question of the where John Smith emerged from a baseball card anymore,' Koufax/Gaunt coma with the frightening ability to see said. 'You know that, don't you? When into "The Dead Zone", and where four you slung that mud at Wilma Jerzyck's small boys beat a hood named Ace sheets, you started something. Like a 
Merrill in a race to "The Body" (better guy who starts an avalanche by 
known as the movie "Stand By Me''). shouting too loud on a warm winter day. 
In "Needful Things. " King goes back to Now your choice is simple. You can keep Castle Rock one last time with a going ... or you can stay where you are vengeance. The setting for the novel is and get buried.' the present, and the residents of Castle In his dream, Brian finally began to Rock are all talking about the opening cry. He saw, all right. He saw just fine, of a new curiosity shop called "Needful now that it was too late to make any dif­Things." The simple folk of Castle Rock ference. don't understand the name. Gaunt squeezed the baseball. Blood 
The proprietor, Mr. Leland Gaunt, is began to pour out, and his fingertips an exceedingly charming man, yet no sank deep into its white, fleshy surface." one can quite agree on the color of his eyes, and the touch of his pale hands "Needful Things" is full of similar vivid sends inexplicable waves of revulsion imagery. As Gaunt's stranglehold on the through his customers. town constricts, the suspense becomes 
Mr. Gaunt's merchandise consists of increasingly exquisite. The book is very such odds and ends as a 1956 Sandy hard to put down because, although Koufax baseball card, a piece of wood Gaunt is a thoroughly despicable villain, rumored to be from Noah's ark, and a he certainly has style. pair of sunglasses worn by Elvis. King's development of character is as 
Mr. Gaunt' s first customer, young extraordinary here as it was in classics Brian Rusk, snatches up the Koufax such as "It" and "The Stand." He card for nothing more than the change returns to his hometown after a spell in it comes out in paperback and read it
breathes life into the quirks of each in his pocket. Brian can hardly believe character, even the minor ones, making prison, older but no wiser. over the summer. 
"Needful Things" is a very enjoyable One last thing: if you don't understand 
that the card costs him only 85 cents. them all the more real to the reader. 
reading experience. At 700 pages, the title of the book, think this over.
Well, there is one other small charge -a For loyal King fans, there are several however, it is a rather considerable un­Maybe Leland Gaunt calls his shop
simple prank on his neighbor. references to other Castle Rock stories, Brian's small prank sets ofT a chain of and even a few familiar faces. Ace 
dertaking, especially around final exam "Needful Things" as a reference, not to events designed by Gaunt to guide the Merrill, the hood from "Stand By Me," 
time. So, do yourself a favor; wait until his wares, but to his customers. 


Thursday, April 16, 1992 The Observer page 13 
Hoop Penguins beat Capitals 4-1 · Islanders blank Devils 7-0 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Troy Monday to the Devils, trailed improvement of 19 points over period goals to start the Toronto 
continued from page 18 
Loney and Jaromir Jagr scored New Jersey by two points enter­last year. Maple Leafs to a 4-2 victory 
hampered by the weather con­ditions which have included rain and low temperatures. 
No Vaseline is seeded this year after making the round of 64 last year. The team is com­prised of Earl Johnson, Keith Johnson, Rahman Johnson, Archie Chaney and Irish foot­ball tight-end Oscar McBride. 
"We have been playing real well," said Earl. "We've been shooting real well and having Oscar inside helps us a lot is the bad weather. People tell us we have a good press and that stems from our team speed." 
36 seconds apart early in the third period and the Pittsburgh Penguins, playing most of the game without the NHL's two top scorers, beat the Washington Capitals 4-1 Wednesday night to clinch third place in the Patrick Division. 
The Penguins' ninth consecu­tive home victory and the New Jersey Devils' 7-0 loss to the New York Islanders set up a Pittsburgh-Washington matchup in the first round of the Patrick Division playoffs beginning Sunday. In the other, fourth­place New Jersey will face the New York Rangers, who have the best record in the NHL. 
Pittsburgh, a 5-1 loser 
ing the game, but clinched third under the NHL's tie-breaking system with 39 victories to the Devils' 38. The Devils finished with a 38-31-11 record and the Penguins are 39-31-9 entering Thursday's season finale at the Rangers. 
Islanders 7, Devils 0 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. -Several New York Islanders reached personal milestones, including coach Al Arbour, in a 7-0 rout of the New Jersey Devils. 
With the game, Arbour coached his NHL-record 1,438th and gained his 705th victory as the Islanders ended their season with 79 points, an 
Ray Ferraro got his 40th goal, giving the Islanders three 40­goal scorers for the first time since 1984-85 -and the distinction of being the first team ever to have a trio of 40­goal scorers without making the playoffs. The others are Derek King and Pierre Turgeon. 
Benoit Hogue became a 30­goal scorer for the first time in his career, Steve Thomas had his second career four-goal game and Glenn Healy earned the first shutout by an Islanders goaltender since Feb. 4, 1990. 
Maple Leafs 4, Rangers 2 TORONTO -Peter Zezel and Mike Krushelnyski scored first-
over the New York Rangers. 
Zezel deflected a long Ric Nattress shot past goaltender Mike Richter at 2:59 and Krushelnyski put in a rebound at 9:00 to give the Maple Leafs a 2-0 first-period lead. 
Dmitri Mironov and Wendel Clark also scored in.the Leafs' final game of the season, while Adam Graves and Darren Turcotte countered for the Rangers, who were playing their first game since the end of the 10-day player strike. New York, with the best record in the NHL, closes its season Thursday night at home against the Penguins. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
\  NOTICES  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board!  FOR SALE  Does anyone have extra tickets for graduation ? ? Please call Cris @ X4907  KRISTINE-Ventured w/u 2 Yrs. ago, Snow on the beach Michael Penn, Chinese food  I am a worm, slowly and surely sinking deeper into the bowels of the earth, putting more desolation  
Over 8,000 openings. No  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  Blanket + a sunset.  between me and the universe  
05/15 WORD PROCESSING  experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program  Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00,  Meg, • FRIENDS FOREVER"  Koala behs, early bloom we r Fur in every room!  JennySueDb dont wet yourself  
256-6657  call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597.  289-1993. Office near campus.  AND •LOVE YOU ALWAYS!•  U at X-mas, Dinosaurs On my quilt!!!  gotten any of my letters Gain to Tenn today !wont let them  
$$FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-Sat  STUDENTS AND PARENTS!  Love,  Classic girl, Brown-eyed girl  dll like Tampa its frustrating  
Pandora's Books  Turtle Creek guys need two more  SAVE on those housing costs.  Buy  Land M  Makin love in the green grass  will be here sr week PAR T soon  
corner of NO ave & Howard  roommates for next year.  Call Brian  this Oakhill Condo, walk to classes.  (Beh, ru itchy too?)  loveCAD now you canwet  
reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday  at x3414.  Get a break on your taxes, and a  WHOOPS! Is "Our Baby" growing in  Sometimes I think I thrill u,  
LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes  Female roommate needed for  return on your investment alter graduation. Call Janet Knapp at  your tummy by accident? Loving doctor and his stay at home wife  Sometimes I think I'll kill u, Just doni let me fuckup willu  The ICPA quotes you didn't hear: Johnny is Gay•l'll never be able to  
every Sat. and Sun. at 8:00 AM. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment and training  Williamsburg Apt. June 1st $234.50. Call 258-5702  RE/MAX 1 00 realty for more information. 219-255-5858 or 219­277-7402.  would like to discuss Baby's future with you. Please call us collect anytime. (219) 462-5250. Debra  Cuz when I need a friend It's still U. Astral weeks will Pass ... but I'll always luv u.  breast feed•l'm taking a poll, have you ever been asked out by Rene?•eat here&get gas• This is my  
programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616)  Looking for students to deliver Chicago Tribune and Wall Street  ATIENTION:  COUCH  and MichaeL  -justin  wedding song•Bizarre Love Triangle-this will be the song I  
948-2665.  Journal on Campus Fall and Spring  &MATCHING LOVESEAT, &  WITH BEST WISHES  WANTED: A rational explanation for  dance to wlmy mom at my  
Semesters, 1992-1993. Interested  RECLINER 4 SALE-MUST SEE­ Patricia Healy  the termination of the NO wrestling  wedding•car, car, CAR•brake,  
TYPING AVAILABLE  persons should call City News  $150 271-9165  Wedding Consultant  program. Must be logical, coherent,  brake, BRAKE•You won't be able to  
287-4082.  Service 232-3205. Office hours  (219) 272-5640  TRUE and must not make the  write the obit if we ALL die•l'm  
Typing Pickup & Delivery 277-7406  Monday thru Friday. 7:30 A.M. to 2:00P.M. I FOR RENT  DOUBLE LOFT for sale call Monica x3765  •ATIENTION NDCIBD MEMBERS Those interested in going to the Roundtable, 4/23, call Amy Markx4290. Patricia Besser, VP  university look like a bunch of money-hungry idiots. If you can help us out, call Athletic Czar DICK Rosenthal at his toll-free number 1­800-GET-CLUE.  making out my will, who wants my CD's?•lf I go through the windshield I'm taking the review mirror w/me•l need to be strapped in•l have to go to the bathroom•How to acheive  
PRESCHOOL REGISTRATION  CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED  oft st Nat' I Bank of Chicago will  P.S. What team is next on the list?  multiple orgasms•Doctors have the  
for FALL Children's Community Co-op Morning Classes for 3's, 4's,  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153.  89 MERCEDES ......... $200 86 VW ......................$ 50  speak on "Corporate Aspects of Supply & Demand"  ..GOOD LUCK NO RUGBY ..  highest rates of alcoholism, drUg abuse, suicide,& causing women not to be able to breast  
5's and also Toddler PlayschooL  2 Bedroom  87 MERCEDES ......... $100  RIDE NEEDED-Iowa City or  Prof, Huff, Fudge, Ollie, Taz, Nash,  feed•Because of all the sand-which  
SPRING OPEN HOUSE,  Walk to Campus  65 MUSTANG ........... $ 50  vacinity for Easter. JEN 2198.  Panch, Hardi, Patsy, Hick, Cocci,  is in it•Who took that  
Sunday, April 26, 3-5 p.m.  $390 Month  Blaise, Rille, Wes, Brodski, Luke,  picture?•Maybe that's the hotel your  
333 N Main St. South Bend  232 3616  Choose from thousands starting  APRIL 25TH ......... OINK!!  Brownie  parents are staying in• That's getting  
Growing popularity within the Notre Dame Community  SUMMER SUBLET (TURTLE  $25. FREE 24-Hour Recording Reveals  Alicia ....  YOU'RE THE BESTI!I  old• I'm having a drought-a 19 year one•lce tea is a diuretic•Hi my name  
(Call for references)  CREEK) 272-9540!  Giveaway Prices.  is Jen &I like to be spanked•No that  
Peg Moody 234-2320  801-379-2929  Hello Erin I  Oh, I can't wait until the morning.  was your dream• I can't feel my  
I! SUMMER EMPLOYMENT !!  RESERVE YOUR 2, 4, or 5 Bedroom House for 92-93 NOW!  Copyright #INti KJC.  FOOD PROVIDED  have so many special things to tell you!  tongue!•! think he has a definite testosterone problem  
Chicago and Suburbs  Safe Area, Private Parking  88 Mazda 323, 4spd, AC, EC, 22K  at the Student-Alumni Community  -The 1/2 of the Saint Mary's staff  
NO Grad Hiring Students  Lot, Volleyball & Basketball Court,  mi! Hundreds below blue book! Jim  Service program. Meet involved  1·4-3 EWE  that Rich hooked up with  
$10.25 to start No Exp Nee  Semi-Furnished. Call 234-1886  W239-6064/H273-9059  alums and learn how YOU can join  
(708) 705-2694  lt)!lm in service projects around the  4th FLOOR KEITH ANDERSON  OPIE McGUIRE !I  
ILOST & FOUND I  705 Notre Dame Ave., 3-bdrm., family or grad students. AvaiL 6/1, summer lease and/or fall term.  TICKETS  country. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22 esc  You'd better hide the pellet gun ...or we'll shove it up your ass!I  OPIE McGUIRE!! OPIE McGUIRE!! Attention all Opie Fans!I  
$475/mo. 234-8200 for details.  Extended Catholic family coming  9:00p.m.  hey nil  Don't forget to wish Opie  
FOUND: At Stonhenge, 1  from NJ. Need as many  good luck in the Boston Marathon!!  
groovy looking hoop earring  grad. tix as humanly possible.  It could be  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  We know you'll do great, OPIEI  
with brass beads and so on...  New condo available mid-May  Call Teresa x2899 to haggle.  A WASTED OPPORTUNITY  Info on semester, year, graduate,  Love-Tanya, Kiana, & Gail  
drop by 303 St. Ed's or call  thru  mid-August.  COMPLETELY  if you don't check out the Student­ summer and internship programs in  
x1672  furnished, incl- FOR SALE: chp. 1 way tick. SB  Alumni Community Service  Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and  STAY AWAY FROM LAFORTUNE  
uding linen, towels, and dishes. 2  to Los Angeles. Monday, 5/18.  programs. Be a part of service  Melbourne. Programs start at  COMPUTER LAB AFTER 10 PMI  
LOST: BETWEEN SOUTH DINING  bedrooms, 2 baths.  Jim x1558.  opportunities in alumni clubs.  $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696.  If you're typing a paper and  
HALL AND FISHER REGAITA A  Walking distance to NO campus.  WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22  you want a computer, don't  
GOLD ID BRACELET WITH NAME  Call Kathleen -277­ Need 1 or2 grad tix. Let's make a  esc  The Lizard King lives on! Down with  come late at night  
"MELISSA". SENTIMENTAL  1709.  deal. Ron 3315, leave message.  9:00p.m.  the Crustaceans!  EVERYBODY COMES THEN AND  
VALUE!!! IF FOUND, PLEASE  THERE'S ALWAYS A WAITING  
CALL 283-3865.  OAKHILL CONDO FOR RENT  ·  .__I_P_E_R_S_O_N_A_L__.  THE LONG AWAITED QUOTES FROM 509 AT THE KAI  Irish Music and Dance Every Tuesday at Club 23  LIST!!!!!!! Go in the morning, it's peaceful and available ...  
LOST: SILVER CELTIC CROSS ON  NEW, SPACIOUS 2 BDRM, 28TH,  -"IT WAS A GOOD IDEA WE HAD  SEAMAISIN  
SILVER CHAIN. GREAT  WID, GARAGE, WALKING DIST.  PORT-A-PIT CHICKEN & RIBS  COMING ON SPRING BREAK"  Anne and Danielle  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND  TO NO CAMPUS, NICE POOL  Saturday, April 25, (Blue-Gold  -"THE SUN IS MY ENEMY, BEERS  to the athletic dept.:  (the LaFortune live-ins) are  
PLEASE CALL MARY 3440. $$$  CALL CAROLINE OR BILL AT 317­ Game Day), at St. Joseph's High  ARE MY FRIENDS."  your time is gonna come  so hot that you can charbroil  
875-8890.  School.  -"3-2-1 BUNGEEII!I"  -led zeppelin  swordfish on their thighs.  
Found-blue coat with keys  Help the parents keep the kids sate  -"HE WASN'T THE MOST SOCIAL  
by bookstore basketball courts-call  SUMMER SUBLET  alter the prom. Proceeds go to  HITCH-HIKER, WAS HE"  Heading for EUROPE this summer?  HAPPY BDAY DAVE!  
x3039  support the  -"WE'RE SAILORS, WE SAIL"  Jet there anytime for $169 from the  TOP 10 WEEKEND QUOTES  
TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE  Jr/Sr Post-Prom Party.  -"WHO'S DRIVING THIS THING?"  East Coast, $229 from the Midwest  1 0 Just don't forget to lick the  
Found:tan J. Crew jacket Campus  FOR RENT OVER SUMMER. TWO  Advance ticket prices for Port-A-Pit  -"SUT UP BOY I JUST SUT UP!"  (when available) with AIRHITCH!  monkeys  
View 277-7179.  BEDROOMS, ONE AND ONE  are $3.50/chicken, and $4/ribs. Call  -"TOTAL!"  (Reported in Let's Go! & NY Times.)  9 So we need to screw Dave.  
HALF BATHS, FENCED IN PATIO,  272-3753 and leave message.  -"NOT TELLIN'"  For details:  8 I vote we change plastic objects  
FOUND:  LARGE LIVING AREA, WALKING  Tickets can be delivered directly to  -"NICE HAIRCUT, SHANNON!"  AIRHITCH(r) 212-864-2000.  7 U've got to blow harder  
Bead necklace w/ crucifix by Knott  DISTANCE TO CAMPUS.  you on campus.  -"CAPT. DAVE NEEDS SOME  6 It's salivating on me  
White long sleeve NO shirt @ ACC  CALL ERIC X1392  SAILING LESSONS."  ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS  5 U can't perform  
(in the Pit)  CALL BRYAN or BRENNAN  African booty scratcher  -"1 THINK MARK'S HAD A UTILE  A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS  41 really stink at blowing  
Call x3472 and leave message  x·r376  TOO MUCH MILK."  A BABY!  Young financially secure  3 It started going up and then  
CALL KEN X1385  Help Me, Please  -"I'VE NEVER SEEN THEM WAIT  Catholic couple looking to adopt  ... SPERM!  
WANTED  Spacious 4-5 bedroom home near  I need graduation tickets if anyone  FOR THE WIND IN AMERICA'S CUP."  and provide a loving home to an infant. All Expenses paid. Please  2 Innocent? Alter the night we spent together?  
Lafayette Square -Recently remodeled -New carpeting -2 car  has some they are not going to use. Call Quinn at x2059 if you have any  -'WE SMELL LIKE AN ASS, SOMEONE NEEDS TO WIPE US."  call collect (317) 364-0300 for more information.  1 CHICKY-MONKEE!  - 
Even though MR. BUSH is speaking  garage. $600.00 per month. Call  info.  -"WE HAVE A VERY BROAD  HOPE BEING 19 BLOWS AS  
at graduation, my aunt still wants to  277-4583 alter 4:00p.m.  RELATIONSHIP. BROAD!"  ADOPTION  WELL AS U 00!11!  
come. Please help her out;Sell me a  please, help me  -"ARE YOU A VIRGIN OR HAVE  Childless, Christian, Couple wishes  LOVE,D&S  
graduation ticket. Call x4233  2 Bdrms. NOW; 3 available in June,  YOU MADE LOVE TO A SEA  to adopt. Legal and medical paid.  
summer schooL $200/mo. Use of all  SERPENT?"  Call Bill and Kathy, Collect, at 219­ Steve (even though this doesn't  
MOVING TO LA?  facilities. Close to campus, safe  LET'S GO GREYHOUND TO  -"WE NOT LEAVING FOR ALL THE  322-8187.  have your last name you will see it  
I'm looking for roommates to live  neighborhood. 232-2794.  PHILADELPHIA. $128.00 ROUND  KANSAS GIRLS, JUST ONE"  anyway!)­ 
near Manhattan Beach alter  TRIP. RESTRICTIONS APPLY.  ·"MARK AND KISCH HAVE A  On behalf of everyone that had a  Are you reading this? If so, it's  
graduation.  RENT 1 BDRM APMT nr NO,  287-6541.  GIRLFRIEND, THE SAME  bean burrito on Sat. Night at Castle  very considerate of you to have  
CALL JULIE x1342  $250+util.,dep. 287-7039.  GIRLFRIEND."  Point:  lowered yourself to read this "piece  
LET'S GO GREYHOUND TO NEW  -"SEE VA AGAIN, SAME TIME  of ... I" Anyway, have a nice day! II  
Need ride to/from Pittsbgh  TURTLE CREEK SUMMER  YORK CITY. $116.00 ROUND  SAME PLACE, SAME YEAR."  (See,you can trust me-this wasn't  
4 Easter. Will split gas/tolls. Ray  SUBLET-PRICE NEG.;  TRIP. RESTRICTION$ APPLY..  a bad classified-better watch out  
x2388  FU_RNISHED. 271-1399  287-6541.____ _____  ....  ··---­••.P.~. tiO~~y C~W-1=01. ······---------·Tr.tAN.KS.f.ASTER 6UNNYJ!t!IL. -~  .nalltlime.Jh.ough!} •. --------•  

-------------------------~----------­
Thursday, April16, 1992 The Observer page 14 

INOTRE DAME SOFTBALL 1992 1
r----------------------------------1 
l<lncludes 38 Gemes) 
I 

laATTING Stotlstlcs I IPLAYER DA G/ GS AD R H RDI :ZD JD HR 58/SDA II Amy Rueter 1.000 26/ 0 2 8 2 o 0 0 0 2/6 I Sara Hayes .350 36/ 38 120 13 42 2 I I I I 4 0/0 I 1
Ruth Kmak .289 38/ 31! 90 12 26 8 4 0 o I /2 I I Sheri Quinn .263 27/ 19 57 4 t5 5 0 0/0 I Amu Fglsgm 255 34/ 34 98 7 25 3 0 0 0/0 I 
Andrea Keys .250 16/3 24 4 6 I 2 0 0 Ill I Christy Connoyer .229 38/38 109 8 25 7 4 1 0 1/3 I I Melissa Cook .222 6/0 9 o 2 3 0 0 0 OIO 11Carrie Miller .212 35/35 99 6 21 6 0 0 Ill I 1usaMI!Itr 211 31/25 38 7 8 2 0 0 0 2/5 
Ronny Alvarez 208 35/35 96 6 20 0 0 0 2/6 I 
I 
Liz Goetz .200 6/1 10 0 2 I 0 0 0 Ill 1 I Stephanie Pinter .195 38/38 I 16 6 23 6 2 0 2 OIO Debbie 6oulac .167 36/36 102 2 17 0 0 010 I 
C::•uu McMurnu 150 19/10 40 6 2 2 0 0/0 2110 o 111 
I 1 
I Mtch;,;;(H;; .ooo 3 6 o o o o 1 
I Notre Deme .236 36/38 1015 96 240 69 26 5 6 12/261Opponent Toto! a .206 38/ 38 993 89 207 70 27 14 5 19/ 27 I
J 1 
I PITCIING Stotlll!CI 
I 

I PITCHER ERA GIGS w-L sy cG SHT IP H R ER BB so 1 5 19/9 7 4 I 7 I 93 3 71 24 15 I I 66 
I Steel Alford 1.4 -· I I Melissa linn 2.20 19/16 6-6 0 I 0 2 96.3 73 33 24 21 45 
I 

Carr1eMIIIor 2.36 13/13 6-5 0 7 4 72.3 55 24 19 19 20 
AlmeeTerry 17.18 110 0 0 0 0 3.7 8 6 7 2 2 
1
I 

I NOTRE DAME 2.19 36/36 21-17 I 24 7 2677 207 89 65 53 133 ... 
I.

----------------------------------~­
BASEBALL STANGINGS 
MCCGAMES ALL GAMES 
W L W L Notre Dame 4 0 18 Dayton 4 4 13 Butler ll
'\~~·'?;·;~ ...;.~:~··:;~~'
Xavier .~3'•
"-<',~ -~ ... ~~~ 
.J .,. -~~.;,;,,;~ .. t··4~·
Detroit Mercy 8.
2; ___ : l 14
Evansville -71i11 


SOFrBALL 5fANDINGS 
~,· ) MCCGAMES ALL GAMES Nolie Dil'ili: 3 1 2i 17 Butler 4 2 9 16 Detroit Mercy 5 3 16 3 Loyola 3 3 13 17 Evansville 3 5 11 23 Dayton 0 4 9 19 
TENNIS SfANDINGS 
MCCGAMES ALL GAMES Butler 3 0 8 6 Xavier 4 1 11 3 Evansville 2 4 14 Notre Dame 0 0 18 3 Detriot Mercy 0 0 3 10 Dayton 0 5 6 11 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL American League AL-Named John Ricco assistant public relations director. 
NEW YORK YANKEE5-0ptloned Bernie Williams, outllaldar, to Columbus of the International League. Recalled Run Springer, pttcher, from Columbus. National League 
NEW YORK METS-Piacad Kevin Elster, shortstop, on the 15-day disabled 1/sl retroactive to April 13. Optioned Mark Dewey, pitcher, to Tidewater of the International League. Recalled Rodney McCray, outfielder, and Chris Donnels, Infielder, from Tidewater. 
SAN DIEGO PADRES-Traded Thomas Howard, outfielder, to lhe Cleveland Indians lor Jason Hard1ke, infielder, and a player to be named later. South Atlantic League 
CHARLESTON RAINBOWS-Named Vincent Nlcaatro director of administration. 
BASKETBALL National Baakatbal! League 

CLEVELAND CAVALIERS-Placed Jimmy Oliver, guard-lorward, on the Injured list Activated Craig Ehlo, guard-lorward. from the Injured list. 
SAN ANTONIO SPURS-Named Jerry Tarkanlan head coach, ellectiva next 
season. 

United Stataa Baltketball League JACKSONVILLE HOOTERS-Named Paul Prisco southeaal region scouting director. 
TAMPA BAY SUNBLASTERS-Named Kim Kelly dlracror ol markeling; Ken Weisman marketing coordlnalor and Janel Applelleld asslaant to the general manager. 
FOOTBALL Canadian Football League 

OTIAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Signed Sheridon Baptiste, wide receiver, to a 1wo-year contract. World League 
BARCELONA DRAGONS-Signed Darrln Trieb, linebacker, and Tim Frager, running back. Waived John Elmasry, linebacker. 
FRANKFURT GALAXY-Waived David Sanczyazyn, tackle. MONTREAL MACHINE-Signed Steve Williams, wide receiver. 
NEW YORK-NEW JERSEY KNIGHTS-Signed John Evans, quanerback; Joe Johnson, cornerback; and David Senczyazyn, tackle. Waived Brian Holloway, tackle. 
OHIO GLORY-Signed African Grant. cornerback. SAN ANTONIO RIDERS-Activated Ronnie Williams. tighl and. 
HOCKEY Nallonal Hockey League 

NHL-Extendad the lhree-game suspension of Phlladalphla Flyers delenseman Terry Carkner lor a match penalty against New Jersey's Randy McKay on March 29 lor one game. 
MINNESOTA NORTH STARS-Assigned Kip Miller, center, to Kalamazoo ol lhe International Hockey League. 
SOCCER American Profaulonal Soccer League COLORADO FOXES-Signed Ted Eck, lorward.
-
COLLEGE RAMAPO-Named E.J. Mills defensive coordinator and secondary coach. WESTERN CONNECTICUT STATE-Named John Carvlno football coach. 
BOOKSTORE RESULTS 
Gauchoo'a def.ln It Ta' Win It, 21-12 No Vaseline def. Four Social Drinkers & Willies, 21-6 Brldgets def. The Dogs, 21-8 5 w/NoSocial Life Since Tone's Burned Down del. 5 Man Acoustical Jam, 21-8 Pale Ride!'l def. Come Under Nelson's Tent, 21-11 Yeah! Commlah's Censored Our Name def. 10 Minutes 'till Wapner, 21-19 We Hate Jimmy Buffet def. Amateur Pholactia, 21-19 Shoot or Get Off def. 4 Guys Eatin' Regularly & I Single Guy, 21-16 Blackjack del. Air Panther, 21-8 Matt Curoe's Wedding Pmoent def. 4 Guys who can't Score with T, 21-9 2 Guys & 3 other Guys def. We Drink More before Sam than most, 21-11 Bitter def. 4 Studs & Some Other Guy, 21-10 H We Weren't such Good-looking guys del. We're Good ...Smart Enough. 21-8 Drive by Shooting del. Zollie'1 Double Cheeseburger, 21-17 Word to Your Mother ll def. Civil Dloobedience, 21-10 Charlestown Chiefs del. Soul Glow, 21-10 Black Sheep def. Painkiller QuUt, 21-19 Jimmy Chitwood & "Pidtet Fencr" del. Club Shenanigans, 23-21 Salubriou&-~llpigous def. O'Malley's Twenty-Niners, 21-19 Frank Drebin & the 'Cocks del. R!Yo Nightclub, 21-11 Hot Fudge def. Badt Off, We're Genna Shoot, 21-10 Bitter Sweet def. Panic Hard, 21-13 Blow Dryer, Curling Iron, & others your Girlfriend Uses del. Team 587, 21-16 21 Guns s.alute def. Guru's P"""", 22-20 2 White 2 Win def. Torto 'R' Us, 21-13 Slim-fast Presents... def. Shamma Lamma Ding Dong. 21-19 Flipper & the Undertoes def. Creamoicln, 21-7 White Men Can't Jump del. Team Choata, 2&-24 Aphrodlslaa def. Liquid Brtno, 21-15 (protest game) Moloko & Ultraviolencr del. I Cheg & 4 Unemployed, 21-14 II You're Soft, You've Lost def. 3AM Elema~ 21-9 L Train del. The Plundty Buddah, 21-7 
BOOKSTORE TUES 4/21 SCHEDULE SfEPANCT1 
Mollciouo Prosecution VI. G""'n Egg•"' Government Ch..,..,, 4:00 Pass the Beemuto II va. Low Density Wolf-Bait, 4:45 Just ChlUin' va. The Un-Eunifled Team, 5:30 Cash Money Crew YS. Dogs in Heat n, 6:15 
SfEPANCT2 

Tequila White Lightning XI vs. Automatic Weapons, T.F...., 4:00 Off on MacLeod vs. NO's Most Wanted, 4:45 Bridget's v1. 21 Gun Salute, 5:30 2 White 2 Win vs. Shounma Lamma Ding Dong. 6:15 
SfEPANCT3 

The Gaucho's vs. Flipper and the Undertoes, 4:00 While Men Can't Jump v1. Aphrodisiacs, 4:45 No Vasellnr va. Moloko and Ultravioience, 5:30 H You're Soft, You've Loot vs. L Train, 6:15 
SfEPANCT4 

The CrirneDogs vs. Orange Juice, 4:00 Hypothetical Sex vs. Common's Club, 4:45 All the Prealdenrs Men vs. Vegetable Eroticism, 5:30 NUl'S VL The Good, the Bad, the Laundry, 6:15 
SfEPANCTS Ebony Side of the Dome va. Touch my Monkey, 4:00 Tommy's Tovern vo. No Snackln' at the Y, 4:45 Fighting Kemals vs. Attadt of the Phyjitu&-llpped.., 5:30 The Real Fab Five vs. The Hawk will Never Die, 6:15 
SfEPANCT6 

M<Cormlck's Beauties...vs. The Dyslexic 9&-ing Happy.....,4:00 Men who Love Fermented Grain vs. Apocalypse and the 4 Horsemen, 4:45 Pale Riders vs. Yeah! The Commissioner's Censored our Name, 5:30 We Hate Jimmy Buffett vs. Shoot or Get Off, 6:15 
BOOKSfORE CT9 

Blackjack vs. Matt Curoe's Wedding Present, 4:00 2 Guys and 3 Other Guys vs. Bitter, 4:45 H We Weren't Such Good Looking Guys vs. Drive By Shooting. 5:30 Word to Your Mother II vs. Charlestown Chiefs, 6:15 
BOOKSfORE CT10 

Should Be Spectators vs. Jimmy Chitwood and the "Picket Fence", 4:00 Salubrious-n-CaUlpigous vs. 5 with No Social Life sincr Tone's Burned Down, 4:45 Frank Drebbin .....vs. Hot Fudge (and other sticks ..), 5:30 Bittersweet v. Blow Dryer, Curling Iron & Other things your Girlfriend uses, 6:15 

Dine-In at 
Downtown 282-2543 
or Roseland 277-2121 
CHOICE DEAL 
I 


'1\vo Medium I
I 
I






I }..1bpping
I 
I Pizzas I 
I 
I 




Sl099
I I carryout/Delluerycarryout/Delluery 
I 
!:!!!!! Mayll, 1992

I ~May 31, 1992 
TrytheHot'faste 
I 
I

i I ~~®I ofPizzaHuf1bnight. I I 
1I Please mention coupon 
when ordering. One coupon I per customer per visit at participating Plna HutI Plsase mention coupon when ordering. One coupon 

I 
restauran!s or delivery stores. NOT VALID WITH

1per cuslomer per vlsll at participating Pizza Hut I I restaurillts or delivery stores. NOT VALID WITH l I
ANY OTHER COUPON. Limited delivery area. 

•_!!IV OTHER COUPON. limited delivery area 
J 
..------------­

-------------• 
Thursday, April 16, 1992 The Observer page 15 
•If Lake Dawson went home for "personal reasons," why
Floyd ready for Heritage Classic Random 
doesn't anyone know if he will 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND, S.C. (AP) -Looking for a favorite for the Heritage Classic? 
How about Raymond Floyd, who is coming off a second­place finish in the Masters? 
The 49-year-old Floyd ap­proves. 
"I would say my chances are very good," Floyd said Wednesday, on the eve of the first round of the Heritage. "I would say that on my past form I would think that I'll have to certainly be considered one of the favorites. 
'Tm playing well. I hope it doesn't change. It might. But it didn't today. I played beauti­fully." 
During the pro-am on Wednesday, Floyd certainly looked ready, shooting a 4-un­der-par 67 on the Harbour Town Golf Links. 
He missed a 3-foot birdie putt on the 16th hole and then left a 15-foot birdie putt on No. 17 short by 2 1/2 feet. 
He blamed the late-round lapse on the pro-am format, which has the golfers out for some five hours -a good hour longer than it normally takes the pros to traverse the 6,912­yard course. 
"Right toward the end I think I went to sleep," Floyd said. 
Floyd was in much the same shape after the final round of the Masters on Sunday. So he took a break, not touching his clubs until Wednesday morning. 
"I was just totally exhausted," he said. "After a major, it's hard to do anything. 
"I think you do emotionally get so high that everything is anticlimactic. To go play a practice round was just the farthest thing in my mind. 
"But taking off is what I needed." 
Floyd, whose best effort in the Heritage is a fourth-place tie in 1977, has finished in the top three in three of his last four tournaments, including a victory last month in the Doral Ryder Open. 
He is fourth on the money list with $512,618 and is among the leaders in most of the important PGA Tour statistics. 
''I'm not doing anything dif­ferently, strategy-wise," Floyd said. "I just think, well, I don't think, I know I'm hitting the ball better." 
He was not able to offer an explanation. "I wish I could," he said. "I 
ManyTimnks 
ForA 

Wonderful 
Christ1nas 
his year, 3,000 Christmas in April volunteers, working with energy ond enthusiasm, completed more than $750,000 in repairs to homes in the St. Cosimir's/Ford Street neighborhood. As· o result of their hord work, 53 South Bend families ore safer, wormer ond drier. 
To those volunteers ond the rumerous contributors to Christmas in April, o sincere ond heartfelt thank you. Your generosity in time, materials and money hos mode ochange in many lives that will be remembered ond appreciated for years 
to come. 

IN APRIL 
don't want to delve too deeply, though. I kind of just want to let it alone." 
Floyd is so comfortable with his swing that he isn't working on anything in particular when he practices. 
It's been like this, he said, for about a year. But while he played well last year, he didn't win a single event. 
With the Seniors Tour on his horizon, Floyd said he may have been just "going through the motions" even as his game picked up. This fall he decided to find out just how good he could be on the regular tour. 
''I'm still competitive out here," he said. "I didn't know that I was this competitive. But I decided to see if I was." 
Floyd said that every week now he looks forward to the competition. 
"I want to see how well I can do," he said. "I think that's the difference." 
With the golf course in good condition, Floyd expects a lot of low scores this week. 
Among those likely to be in contention is defending cham­pion Davis Love lll. Love will be trying to become only the sec­ond golfer to win here two straight years. 
Payne Stewart is the only other player to do that, winning in 1989 and 1990. Stewart, who's made the cut in only one of his last four events, is one of five two-time champions in the 122-player field. 
Ten of the top 12 finishers at the Masters are playing here, although winner champ Fred Couples is skipping this event. 
_.. ____,_,_

-"JOe,·­

continued from page 20 
in the wrestling program. 
Finally, The Observer reported yesterday that senior scholarship student-athletes will be permitted to live off­campus. 
Though it was nice of the administration to give the se­nior student-athletes the same freedom that every other stu­dent enjoys, it might have been nice to give the students a little more time and money to find an off-campus residence. 
There are two similarities in all these cases. 
In each instance there are people leaving the Notre Dame campus, and in each instance, they are not leaving under the best of circumstances. 
Dawson is attending classes at a school in Washington state, while the rest of the football team goes through spring drills. 
Marciniak is on her way to Tennessee after going through a rough freshman campaign here, and Gomez has not announced her intentions. 
Meanwhile, the members of what was the Notre Dame wrestling team are heading in different directions in an at­tempt to continue their athletic endeavors. 
And the senior scholarship student-athletes are scrambling to fmd cheap off-campus hous­ing so they don't end up paying their own rent. 
In addition to the exodus from the shadow of the dome, there are a lot of questions lingering underneath it: 

Ball 
continued from page 16 
frames to take the Irish out of the game. The Irish will play seven games in the next six days 
we 

These members ofour Notre Dame family will receive the Sacraments ofBaptism, Confirmation and Eucharist at the Easter Vigil 
t 

PatrickHall ErinMontgomery Will Robinson Jason Shaw EricZmarzly 
\ 
%e 'Easter 'lligi[ Saturtfay, Ylpri[ 18 

10:00 p.m. 13a.si[ica oftfie Sacrea Heart 
1-1 
(3MPUS 
tv~NISTRY 

ever return? 
•What 
things didn't work out for Marciniak? 

•Why 
didn't Notre Dame be­come a home-away-from-home for Gomez? 

•Is 
the O'Connor endowment solely for wrestling, as some wrestlers claim, or is it "to support athletic scholarships (not just wrestling)" as the Chicago Tribune reported that Rosenthal said? 

•
What is the exact amount of the O'Connor endowment? 

•Why 
suddenly cut an athletic program if money is not a fac­tor? 

•Why 
was the cut announced while Rosenthal was conviently out oftown? 

•Will 
the senior student-ath­letes be willing to pay some of their rent out of their own pockets? Should they have to? 


Finally, the most pressing question I have regards the manner which these events were handled. 
Why didn't the University of­ficially announce three of these four matters? 
It seems that the open, honest Notre Dame family is becoming rather two-faced, trying to keep certain things quiet so the rest of the world continues to think that the school really cares about its students. 
If this image is still true and if there really is a Notre Dame family, I ask one final ques­tion ... 
Would your family treat you the way which the University treated the aforementioned student-athletes? 
while the most people relax over Easter break. Today, the Irish travel to Purdue to avenge the 5-4 loss to the Boilermakers earlier in the season. 
"I'm glad for the chance to play them again," said Murphy. 
On Friday and Saturday, Midwestern Collegiate Conference rival Butler comes to Coveleski for a pair of dou­bleheaders. The Bulldogs are 6­6 in MCC play. Last weekend, Butler took three of four games from Xavier thanks to strong performances from pitchers Scott Metzinger, Craig Kessler, and Ryan Fox. 
On Monday, the Irish face Indiana State in Terre Haute and on Tuesday Notre Dame travels to Champaign to even the score with the Illini. 
LAX 
continued from page 20 
the goalkeeping duo of Chris Parent and Ryan Jewell have kept opposing offenses at bay. 
If the edge in talent does not push the Irish to victory, then the emotional lift they will re­ceive from former team mem­ber Rob Williamson might. 
Williamson was a member of lacrosse team before he was stricken with cancer. He lives in Denver, and will be attending both games. 
"His being there is going to mean a lot to the team. It means a lot to him to be able to see the team play," said Corrigan. " We plan on spend­ing Easter Sunday with Rob and his family." 
Corrigan has tagged the Air Force matchup as a key game for the Irish as they make a run towards an NCAA bid . 
• ----.---·-----••• -~-----~-~-~---------------.-------.---------...• ' .• -----·----· ---J 
---------------~-~------­
page 16 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
at five-singles, where Adam Wager scrapped for a 6-4, 4-6, 6-4 win over the Irish's Ron Rosas. Sophomore Tommy North turned in another out­standing performance at six­singles, trouncing Scooter Place 6-2, 6-1. 
The Irish wrapped up the match with their fifth victory coming at two-doubles, as Zurcher and Forsyth teamed for a 6-4, 6-2 win over Rubenstein and London. 
The victory brings the Irish one step closer to an unde­feated District IV record, with all of the blemishes in their 19­3 record coming at the hands of teams outside the Midwest. The undefeated Midwest slate will be tested once again as the Irish travel south to West Lafayette, Indiana to take on the Purdue Boilermakers in a dual match on Monday. 
Team members and coaches were unavailable for comment. 

Women 
continued from page 20 
respectively. 
A 4-2 lead heading into dou­bles competition is hardly a safe one for the Irish. Throughout the season, their doubles play has been erratic and coach Jay Louderback was hoping his team could put all the pieces together in their final match of the season. 
That's exactly what they did, sweeping all three doubles matches to seal the victory. 
Faustmann and Tholen teamed up to beat Pratt and Jaimie Fielding in a tough three-setter at number one doubles, while freshman Laura Schwab and junior Eniko Bende knocked off Schlonsky and Kate Beamon 7-6, 6-4. 
The senior tandem of Kristy Doran and Katie Clark com­pleted their final regular sea­son match in style with a quick 6-2, 6-1 win over Amy Malk and Frederika Adam. 
Have a Happy and Safe Break 


;f..lf) •· a r :··,r, \ 11r.h->111rlT Thursday, April 16, 1992 
Irish baseball drops one to Fighting lllini 7-2 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
It was a battle of two baseball 
teams who can both claim a 
win over top-ranked Miami, but 
one team wasn't playing up to 
par. 
The 22nd-ranked Notre Dame baseball team (18-1 0) succumbed, 7-2, to a hard­hitting Illinois (24-11) team last night at Coveleski Stadium. 
"A good team came in here and they beat us," said Irish coach Pat Murphy. "We came into the game unenthusiastic and without intensity." 
The Irish quickly put together a small lead with single runs in the second and third innings. In the second inning, junior Eric Danapilis took Illinois starter Dave Seifert's third pitch deep over the left field wall for his fifth home run of the year. 
Senior Joe Binkiewicz also took Seifert deep, but his drive was a few feet short of a roundtripper and Binkiewicz has to settle for a double. Unfortunately the Irish could not capitalize. 
In the third inning, sopho­more Greg Layson started off the inning with a double to right and a wild pitch advanced him to third. Three batters later, Danapilis jumped on Seifert again taking his pitch deep to center for a sacrifice to bring Layson home. 
The eventual winner, John Oestrich (2-2) replaced Seifert on the mound in the fourth in­
ning and used Notre Dame er­
rors to shut down the Irish. 
Oestrich pitched five and two­
thirds innings for the win hold­
ing the Irish scoreless and to 
two-hits. 
"45 minutes before the game, I was trying to get him (Oestrich) to relax. I had no clue what was going to hap­pen," said Illinois skipper Itch Jones. "John finally pitched like he was capable." 
Illinois took the lead in the fifth inning on a combination of Irish errors and solid hitting. Doud Irwin was hit by a Chris Michalak pitch and then, the next batter, Andy Small hit a line drive to left which fresh­man Paul Failla dove for and caught, but before Failla could present the ball to the umpire it fell out of his glove. Larry Sutton hit a two-run double which Scoot Spiezo followed with a two-run homer to lift the Illini to a 4-2 lead. 
Michalak (5-2) was the losing pitcher in the game after allow­ing four runs and seven hits in four and two-thirds innings. The control that the junior showed in his last outing, a complete game shutout of Evansville was missing in this effort. Freshman Craig Allen relieved Michalak, but couldn't keep the Ilinois hitters in check. Allen gave up three runs and seven hits in his four-plus in­nings on the mound. 
Illinois scored single runs in the seventh, eighth, and ninth 
see BALUpage 15 


Apr. 


HOLIDAY SPECIAL 
EA-.._::;TER HOLIDA-Y 2-People --2 Nights: $39.95 incl..1des Easter Brunch Let us accl mmodatc your family 
and guests 2 night m~nimum stay. $6 add'l per person 
tprice does not inc. taxes) 52757 U. S. 31 NORTH 

~~ 277-0510 

Special to the ObseJVer 
Notre Dame baseball player Chris Michalak has been named Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference Player-of-the-Week. 
The pitcher from Lemont, Ill. improved to 5-1 on the year after picking up a 6-0 win against conference-foe Evansville. 
played well together. Thayma and I cooperate well this season." 
The Belles next match is at home against the University of Chicago next Tuesday. 
Notre Dame also notched vic­tories in the other three matchups of a four-game series last weekend to jump to first place in the MCC standings. 
In a rematch of the 1991 MCC championship, the southpaw forced 21 ground-ball outs and did not allow a runner to sec­ond until the ninth inning. 
Correction: 
The softball player in the photo run in yesterday's Observer is Stephanie Pinter, not Carrie Miller. The Observer regrets the error. 


SMC 
continued from page 20 
fourth agamst Angela Gipson, lost 6-2, 6-2. 
Two Saint Mary's freshmen played against Chicago State. Fifth ranked Andrea Ayers was stopped by Cynthia Pitts, 6-2, 6­2, and sixth ranked Marissa Pflum stopped Tiffany Brown, 6­1, 6-4. 
In Doubles play, the 
Mayer/Koscielski duo, ranked first, couldn't top Turner/Embry and they were defeated 6-1, 6-3. Number two Kloepfer/Ayers lost as well, 6­2, 6-1, against their opponents, Gates and Gipson. 
The amazmg third team made up of Darby and junior Shannon McGinn, who have only lost one match this season, beat Pitts and Brown 7-5, 6-2. 
"They were tougher than we thought," McGinn said. "Part of why we won though is that we 

SPEND 4 YEARS.•. EARN $25.200 FORCOWCiE. With the Montgomery G I Bill Plus the Army College Fund, you could earn $25,200 for college for your 4-year enlistment-or $17,000 after only 2 years. 
Andyou don't have to pay this money back. 
The Army will also give you the self-confidence, maturity and leadership skills that will help you succeed in college and in life. 
It's a good deal. Talk it over with your ArmyRecruiter. 
(219) 234-4187 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
-
it












a little... 
Warehouse 
-&

The Spaghetti Warehouse 'iOI N Niles Downtown South flenci 

Thursday, April 16, 1992 The Observer-.-page 17 
SPORTS BRIEFS Men's track to travel to Kansas 
By RIANAKEY 
Sports Writer 

The Easter Break will provide no rest for the travel weary men's track team, as they once !·•·•·• ..· . re­
:. ': unds in a and best
again hit the road for another 

goal percentage pel" game
weekend meet. April 17 and 18 

and career. ~ aseniOr; Po()r
will find the squad in 

shot 60 pe~cent fronrthe floor
Lawrence, Kansas for the 

and 67 percent fro~;~m~Jl"~e
Kansas Relays. 

throw line.. ('W'"i!;;i,'' ' 
Fifteen Irish athletes will 

·~Garey has a great attitude
make the trip to Kansas, focus­

and work ~lhiQ~" says lrish
ing on qualifying for May's IC4A 

coach Mutfet McGraw. "She·schampionships. 
unselfish
Perhaps the most anticipated 
··We're
event for the Irish this weekend 
join· om

By JIM VOGL Boulac. "They're a measuring will be the 4 X 1500 meter re­

Assistant Sports Editor stick for our program and our lay, where a stacked ND squad girls enjoy playing them." will attempt to outrun the com­
After eight games on foreign Nowak, a freshman from petition. soil, the Notre Dame softball Chicago, enters with a 1-2 All-americans John Coyle and team (23-17) returns home to record, a 1.68 ERA and leads Mike McWilliams give the team 
host rival DePaul (15-14) for a DePaul with a .340 batting av­a high profile, but the runners 
University of Miami football players
doubleheader at 3:30 p.m. to­erage. Veteran Suzanne joining them have had equally day at Alumni Field. Wagner (4-6., 1.49 ERA) and successful seasons. Shawn arrested on a variety of charges
For Notre Dame, the Blue Kim Blackmore (8-4, 2.40 ERA) Schneider and Nate Ruder are Demons are a bigger nemesis are also solid pitchers. both coming off season-high MIAMI (AP) -Former Moore could mean lighter sen­than almost any Midwest The Irish hope to keep their performances in their events at University of Miami running tences for them, said assistant 
back Martin Patton will plead U.S. Attorney Martin Goldberg
Collegiate Conference foe. five game winning streak last week's Dogwood Relays. 
guilty Thursday to credit-card and Patton's lawyer, Alan Ross. 
"We always have home-and­rolling behind a dominating The same relay team placed conspiracy and obstructing the Goldberg has presented evi­
home games with them. That pitching staff, which lowered seventh in last week's meet, but 
U.S. mail, his lawyer said. dence in the Pell Grant case to a 
means at least four games a their ERA to a miniscule 1.61 hopes to place even higher this 
Solomon Moore, another grand jury. No charges have
year," instead of just one dou­ERA with two shutouts at weekend. 
former member of the team, been filed. A former academic 
ble-header with MCC oppo­Valparaiso on Tuesday. 
"Nate Ruder is showing will plead guilty later to the adviser has admitted falsifying nents, says Irish coach Brian Junior Staci Alford (8-4, 73 excellent poise for a freshman same federal charges, his financial aid applications for Boulac, whose squad trails K's) is the ace, while senior in the way he races and lawyer said Wednesday. some 40 athletes, and has said DePaul 8-4 in the four year Melissa Linn (8-8) and sopho­competes," said Piane. The FBI may now seek any no one in the athletic depart­series. more Carrie Miller (7 -5) are Schneider explained, "Last information the athletes have ment knew about his activities. 
This year, the teams will play rock solid. week, our individual events about a fmancial aid scandal in Defense lawyers have said the five games. Notre Dame al­5 the school's athletic depart­credit-card charges were used
were first, so we concentrated 

ment. by the government for leverage
ready took the first game in the Offensively, freshman Sara on them, and the relay was run Patton's lawyer and the pros­in obtaining grand-jury testi­Creighton Tournament last Hayes (.350, 5 HR, 21 RBI) as more of a workout. This 
ecutor in the so-called Pell mony from Moore and Patton
weekend. The Irish prevailed leads the team in nearly every week, however, the events are 
Grant scandal confirmed that regarding the 10-month-old
2-1 in eight innings as pitcher category. Co-captains Ruth switched, so we can concen­
Patton and Moore will be de­scandal.
Staci Alford outlasted Missy Kmak (.289) and Amy Folsom trate more on the relay, and 
briefed by the FBI, but they de­"If my client is brought before Nowak. (.255) have stepped forward as hopefully place higher. I'm just clined to disclose the nature of the grand jury on the Pel! Grant "They're one of the finer leaders at the plate, as has ju­
happy to be a part of such a the discussions. matter, he wouldn't be able to teams in the Midwest," said nior Sherri Quinn (.263). great team." Cooperation by Patton and help the grand jury at all, because he doesn't know anything about the matter," Ross said. Patton, 21, and Moore, 20, were arrested in December for 
N\ld's 
using a misdelivered credit card 
McDonald's® announces••• fMc~oni® 
to buy more than $3,000 in goods. Patton was suspended and has transferred to Texas A&I; Moore left the Miami team prior to his arrest. 

Big Mac® 
Big Mac® Double Cheeseburger Double Cheeseburger Hamburger 
Hamburger Cheeseburger Friday &Saturday ONLY Cheeseburger French Fries 
French Fries 
Soft Drinks Midnight -2:00 a.m. 
Soft Drinks Iced Tea 
Iced Tea Coffee 
Coffee Egg McMuffin® Egg McMuffidE> Sausage McMuffin® 
Sausage McMuffin®

LATE NIGHT
with Egg I with Egg Hash Browns 
Hash Browns Orange Juice Orange Juice Apple)uice 
Apple Juice

DRIVE-THRU 
Muffins Muffins Cookies 
Cookies 
Only at McDonald's® RestaurantN\ld's 1 51 9 N. Ironwood, South Bend
fMcJoni® 

Grand Opealng April :Jrd Rainbow Video WE SPECIAUZE IN: Korean 
Japanese 
Chinese 

VideoTapes 

Free Membership State Road :U 14 Ironwood Next to 1• Gas Station 
Mon-Sat 10 am to 10 pm 
Sun 1Z noon to • PDI 

(219) 273-9545 
... 


BUT YOU'LL STILL 


LIKE COMING HERE . . . a lot! 
The Spaghetti Warehouse 50! N. Niles Downtown South Bend 

The Observer Thursday, April 16, 1992 
controversy hits Monk 
page 18 


Commissioners rule on Monk 
By RENE FERRAN 

Sports Writer 
How far back in time does the word "ever" encompass? 

That question is at the core of a controversy surrounding All the President's Men in this year's Bookstore Tournament. 
At issue is how to interpret Tournament Eligibility Rule 1\vo: "Only one player who has ever dressed for an NCAA Division I basketball team, male or female, per team. Any NCAA Division I basketball player may not be substituted for another NCAA Division I player." 
The dispute arose after McCormick's was denied having senior Keith Tower added to its roster. Sophomore Oliver Gibson, who played in several games two seasons ago for the Irish varsity squad, participated in McCormick's second-round game. 
The Bookstore Commission decided that McCormick's could not substitute Tower for Gibson according to rule two. But that is when McCormick's brought up the question of All the President's Men. 
1\vo former varsity basketball players-University President Edward "Monk Malloy (Notre Dame) and Assistant Director of Student Affairs Kevin Warren (Penn)-are on the President's Men roster. 
As well, senior John Rapchinski of McCormick's ac­cuses the Bookstore Commission of being biased in making its final decision. Rapchinski quotes Commissioner Jamie Reidy as saying, "I want to see you get Tower, but J don't like the Trainors (Mike and Tim Trainor are also members of McCormick's) so I have to root a.~Cainst your team." 
"They're biasp ~me way be­cause it's Monk 'Malloy, and bi­ased another way because they d-on't like the Trainors," said 
h. ki ,.,

Rape IDS . ,_.;,, .;, 
However, Head Commissioner Andy Sinn points out that the decision to allow Malloy and Warren to play together was made before this year's tour­nament began. 
"When McCormick's brought the question up, I was taken abaek," said Sinn. "But before I became commissioner, it was talked about modifying the rule to exempt players who had played 20 years ago or before. I did not know this until after McCormick's brought it up." 
"This was a transition year, and with the timing of the tournament and the problems we had this year with signups, it was an oversight not to darify the rule change," added see­
.. 
ond-year commissioner Jeff Oakey. "It just got lost in the shuffie." The rule had not yet been en­acted when All the President's Men was assured that Malloy and Warren could play together. "It was assumed that (Warren) had played only at Grand Canyon College, a Division III school," explained Sinn. "No one was aware that he had played at Penn." But once it became known, McCormick's pressed for an answer. "If Monk can get an exemp-
The Observer/ John Bingham 

Bookstore Basketball is in its 21st season. The tournament will enter the 
round of 64 when students return from break. tion, we feel that we should be able to get one too," said Rapchinski. 
But at a special meeting held Tuesday night, the commission denied McCormick's protest. Sinn explained his rationale for allowing All the President's Men to maintain its current roster. 
"The intent of the rule was to prevent two or more Division I players from getting together and unfairly dominating the en­tire tournament," said Sinn. "Concerning Father Malloy, we li ~~ 
don't believe the rule was in-
who hasn't played NCAA bas-
tended to apply for a player 1"
.,., i••••••••··••••••···········[l•rinlo~l;••••••··•·•····•····:•••••••••·•·••••

ketball for thirty years. 
"Also, if McCormick's wants a strict interpretation of the rules, the NCAA did not insti­tute its divisional structure until 1973. Technically then, Father Malloy is not a Division I player since he played before 1973. 
"And regarding the question of biasness, I made the final decision myself," continued Sinn. "I tried to be objective and conform to the letter and the spirit of the rules to the best of my ability. Father Malloy's age, not his status at this university, was the determining factor in my decision." 
Malloy concurred with Sinn's reasoning. "I'm 50 years old, and I don't feel I'm exactly a threat to the integrity of the tournament," he said. 
However, Rapchinski did not go along with the commis­sioner's ruling. 
"They called Monk the 'weak link,"' he asked. "If that's the case, then why are they seeded?" 
But for not, at least, All the President's Men-as well as McCormick's-have advanced to the Final 64 of the tourna­ment field and will play 
Tuesday 
~~~~~----~------~~~~----------------------------------------~ 
Bookstore Basketball continues on; tourney enters round of 64 Tuesday 
By MARK McGRATH 
Sports Writer 

It's that time of year again. 
Bookstore Basketball has just wrapped up the round of 128. After Easter Break, the round of 64 will tip-off. 
This year is the 21st year of the historic tournament. A new record was set for the number of teams involved when 704 teams signed up. This broke the old record of 703. 
"The tournament has been going well," said Bookstore commissioner Andy Sinn. "There haven't been any real problems yet." 
Bookstore began approxi­mately two weeks ago with the preliminary rounds. These teams that participate in the prelims are randomly assigned. However, once the tourney en­ters the sectionals there are some changes. 
The Bookstore Committee choose 16 teams to be the top sixteen teams which are placed close to the top of the bracket. The commissioners also seed teams in the 17 through 32 slots and place those teams near the bottom of the bracket. The purpose is to have top teams meet later in the tour­nament rather than in the early stages. Once the tourney reaches the Sweet 16, the teams are reseeded in order to provide the best match-ups and attempt to match the best two 
GRADUATING SENIORS 
Hewitt Associates is an international consulting firm 
specializing in the design, financing, administration, 
and communication ofemployee bcnctit and 
compensation programs. Our 2,400+ professionals 
serve over 3,500 clients-which include 75% ofthe 
:·:.··•g·•••••••· Fortune 500-from more than 60 offices worldwide. We arc included in the book The 100 Best Comr.anics to Work for in America. 
As a graduate of the University of Notre Dame with a major in: 
• 
Accounting 

• 
Computer Applications 

• 
Economics 

• 
Finance 

• 
Management with MIS Concentration 

• 
Mathematics 

• 
Mathematics with Computer Concentration 


you have developed yol!r analytical a!ld quantitative 
skills. Add your enthusiasm for learnmg, your 
commitment to working hard, and your desire to be 
a team player, and you have the right combination for 
a great career with us. 
Interested students please forward resumes to: Lisa Jost, Hewitt Associates, 
P.O. Box 497, Lincolnshire, IL 60069. 
~ 

Hewitt Associates 
Linwlnshir~. fl.• N<·wport lkKh,CA • WalnurCr~~k,CA Rowayton, CT • Boston, MA • Bedminster, NJ Arlanra, GA • Las Cohnas, TX • Th~ Woodlands, TX 
An equal opportunity employer m/f . 
teams only in the Finals. 

However, many times seeded teams fall earlier than ex­pected. Yesterday, 5 Guys with No Social Life Since Tone's Burned Down defeated the seeded team 5 Man Acoustical Jam, 21-8. 
This year some of the top teams include No Vaseline, The Gauchos, McCormick's, Bridget's-21-8 winners yes­terday, Just Chillin' and peren­nial powers such as Tequila White Lightning, Malicious Prosecution and Ebony Side of the Dome (Adworks). 
"I think the field is a little weaker overall this year," said Earl Johnson, a member of No Vaseline who won yesterday, 
21. "I think a lot of the weak­ness stems from the loss of great players such as (Mr. Bookstore) Derek Johnson." 
The Gauchos, winners yester­day 21-12, are led by All­Bookstore selection Rob Vazquez. The rest of the team is comprised of Dave Bose, Mike Toner and Pete DiGiovanni. The Gauchos fifth player is a member of the track team and has yet to play with the team. 
"We've played well even with­out our fifth," said Vazquez. "We have been in the Sweet 16 the past two years and I think we have as good a shot as any­one at winning it all." 
This year's tourney has been see HOOP/page 13 
''·.: t .;: -111QA ,Vfi021Uril 19Vl9cci0 (:jf iT 
...







Today 

Thursday, April 16, 1992 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
OH 61<£R1 Wl'SE>ONE. PLEAS£ 
IMPART YouR W15DOM oN MG. 
PLEAS£ PLEAS£ PLEASE. PL£AS£.' 
PUH-LEE E:.EE f:EEE..E"Z.! 
pRt:.1T'I PLf.A-S£ W rrH S 061 fiR ON lOP! PLEASE. . 

I0UDDH A-P£.sr:£I 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I WOUGI-\T I TOLl) '(OJ TO \AI(£: '{OlJR BAT\-\. 
In the rodent family, the beaver Is king of the busy signal. 
MENU  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Rolled Bacon and Cheese Omelet  
Rolled Cheese Omelet  Fillet Perch Parisienne  
Barbecue Chicken  Meat Loaf  
California Eldorado Casserole  Southern Chicken and Dumplings  

BILL WATTERSON 
B~ Gall'!, 11':. 
t\OT GOO\) T() 
1'"Wf.,R\ T\-1£ 
\NIEI'-.11\0~S 
OF TI-lE \JNI\/ERSt.! 
JOHN MONKS 
A reading from the book of Numbers 

CROSSWORD 
Collegiate CW83-14 
ACROSS 45 Valley 14 Prefix: mouth 
46 Dumas -21 Platforms 
1 Reckless adventure 48 Trying experience 23 Hone 
9 That which arouses 50 Australian bird 25 Semicircular canal 
pity 53 Film-splicing location 
15 Expressing mockery mechanism 26 Tooth 
16 "Murder on the-55 Slips again 27 With an open mouth 
Express" 57 "-Five" 28 Like a snake 
17 Diviner 58 Certain speech 29 --nez 
18 Opposite of sound 30 Push oneself 
staccato 59 Well-known shampoo 31 As -a beet 
19 Deviate, as a ship 60 Inventory of steel 33 One of the Seven 
20 Overcast process Sisters 
22 Biblical country 36 "...-the wall ..• " 
23 "Where or-" DOWN 37 "... I've-to 
24 Workers with London ..." 
tobacco 1 Catch sight of 39 "Can't Help Lovin' 
26 Kitchen utensil 2 FOR's mother -man" 
29 Rectangular column 3 Rowing 40 Vine supporter 
32 Made eyes at 4 Commercials 42 Phillips ­
33 Cap attachment 5 -egg Academy 
34 Something to grind 6 Fisherman 43 Hooks 
35 Cafe au -7 -the vine 45 Web-footed birds 
36 Painter of (fail) 46 Confined 
"Olympia" 8 Light tan 47 Ms. Adams 
37 Raised 9 Multilingual 49 Dull 
38 Relevant 10 Exist 50 Dutch cheese 
39 Records 11 Princeton's foot-51 Apportion 
40 Prefix: four ball team 52 Consumer 
41 Practice 12 Advantages (2 wds.)54 Extinct Brazilian 
43 Mountain ridges 13 Cognizant of language 
44 Bit actor (2 wds.) 56 Wrath 

LECTURES 
Thursday 
4:15p.m. Lecture: "Some Thoughts on New Democracies," Guillermo O'Donnell, Kellogg Institute. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 
,~............................................................ 


''THE SHIRT'' 



ON SALE NOW 9-5 pm at the Student Government Office Cost is $5.00
Tues. -Thurs. llam to 6pm 
Fri. llam to 5pm



.. 
Sports 
page 20 
MIKE SCRUDATO 
Random Thoughts 

The Notre Dame "family" has a lot of questions to answer 
Today marks my one-month an­
niversary as sports editor, and in that 
time I have already covered three news­
like sports stories. These stories are 
almost always controversial and deal 
with unpleasant events. 

A sports writPr's job is usually to cover 
a baseball game or to do a feature on a 
record-setting scorer, not investigate the 
goings-on of administrative decisions or 
the whereabouts of student-athletes. 
Unfortunately, over the past month, 
people on the Notre Dame sports beat 
have had to do a lot of that. 

This frightening string of events began 
just before spring break when it was 
reporteri that Lake Dawson had left Notre 
Dame for Mpersonal reasons." No one is 
sure if he will be back when the Irish 
takP the field next fall. 

Following Dawson's mysterious 
departure, Michelle Marciniak and 
Audrey Gomez. two highly touted 
freshmen who struggled through their 
season with the women's basketball 
team, announced they were transferring 
from the University. 

Marciniak said that things just didn't 
work out for her here, while Gomez 
decided to leave because she was 
homesick. Again. writers and readers are 
left wondering about the Mreal story" 
behind the decisions. 

Over the past seven days, two mon­
umental decisions by the athletic de­
partment have been reported. 

Last Friday, Notre Dame issued a press 
release, the only one of these four events 
to be officially announced by the 
University, stating that the Notre Dame 
wrestling program had been cancelled 
because it did not reflect the interests of 
the student body. 

Judging by the general reaction of the 
student body to the decision, I think Dick 
Hosenthal should provide everyone with a 
better reason for the verdict. 

Another matter of controversy involving 
wrestling is the amount and the 
beneficiaries of the O'Connor en­
dowment. Notre Dame Sports 
Information Director John Heisler said 
the endowment is somewhere between 
one and two million dollars and was not 
given specifically for wrestling, while 
former wrestlers are claiming it is a 
three million endowment solely for 
wrestling. 

Heisler said that the endowment was 
not used by the University until Fran 
McCann took over the wrestling program 
in 1984. when the interest from it was 
usPd for scholarships and other expenses 
see RANDOM/page 15 
INSIDE SPORTS 

•Bookstore continues 
see page 18 
•Baseball drops one 
see page 16 
•Softball meets DePaul 
see page 17 
• 'Canes arrested see page 17 
Thursday, April 16, 1992 

Irish tennis teams defeat Wolverines 
Dilucia leads Women defeat Irish to 5-2 win Michigan 7-2 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Observer Staff Report 
Sports Writer It was exactly what they Notre Dame has finally wanted. beaten Michigan this year. The Notre Dame women's Sure, it won't atone for the tennis team closed out their beatings the Wolverines regis­season with a 7-2 win over tered the Irish in football and Michigan yesterday at the 
basketball, but the Irish men's Huron Valley Tennis Club in tennis team did beat UM 5-2 in Ann Arbor. a dual match in Ann Arbor After struggling to reach the 
yesterday. .500 mark during the last In the featured match, third­month of the season, the Irish ranked David DiLucia disposed finished the 1992 spring cam­of Michigan's 16th-ranked paign above . 500 with an 11-1 0 David Kass rather handily, 7-5, record, a goal that had slipped 
6-0. In their previous two through their fingers just four matches Kass took a set from days earlier at LSU. DiLucia, but this time it was a Although Michigan is not one 
different story as DiLucia of the most talented teams on buckled down in the second to Notre Dame's schedule, their seal the victory. depth was expected to chal­
In number two-singles, lenge the Irish. Michigan's Dan Brakas beat It didn't turn out that way, Andy Zurcher in a hotly con­however, as the Wolverines 
tested match that featured two were only able to collect wins tiebreakers. Zurcher won the 
at the number two and numb<'r first tiebreaker 7-4 to win the six singles spots as they fell to first set 7-6. Brakas stormed 
11-8 overall. back to win the second set 6-2 The Irish got their usual wins and the third set tiebreaker 7-from junior Melissa Harris and 
2. Zurcher was once ranked as sophomore Lisa Tholen. Harris high as 32nd in the national cruised past Kim Pratt 6-4, 6-2 rankings, but recent losses at number one singles for her have dropped him to 65th be­team-leading 33rd win of the 
fore yesterday's loss. season. Tholen collected her Chuck Coleman and Will 
20th ""in in her last 21 matches 
Forsyth gave the Irish two with a three-set victory over more straight-set victories at Allison Schlonsky at number three and four-singles. four singles. Coleman beat Mitch Rubenstein Sophomores Christy 6-4, 6-2 and Forsyth defeated Faustmann and Terri Vitale 
Terry London 7-5, 6-2. were also winners at number 
The Observer/ John Rock 
The Irish's second loss came three and number five singles,
Will Forsyth looks up for the overhead slam. Forsyth helped see TENNIS/page 16 lead the Irish to a 5-2 win over the Michigan Wolverines. see WOMEN/page 16 
Belles tennis loses to Chicago State, 7-2 
By KILEY COBLE won that year, 7-2. player Ellen Mayer, a senior, was Sports Writer Chicago State has done a great job defeated by sophomore Titania Turner. recruiting this year, picking up a Turner, who won the 18 and under 
The Saint Mary's tennis team traveled freshman and a sophomore to fill their Western regionals last year, was only in chilly 30 degree weather on Tuesday number one and number two positions. able to gain a 6-3, 6-3 win over Saint to go up against Chicago State Their record this season is 22-2. Mary's. University. The Belles were "We had a very well-played match," Senior Marie Koscielski, playing in the unsuccessful in their bid to stop their Saint Mary's coach Jo-Ann Nester said. second slot, was unsuccessful in her Division I opponent, losing 7-2. Saint "There was good hard hitting on every match against Martha Gates, losing 6-0. Mary's season record is now 8-7. court. We gave them a very good 6-1. Junior Natalie Kloepfer played 
Saint Mary's didn't have Chicago State match, but they were clearly a strong third and lost to Crystal Embry, 6-1, 6-1, on their schedule last year, but they did team." and sophomore Thayma Darby, playing play them two years ago and the Belles In singles play, seated number one see SMC/page 16 
Irish lacrosse hits the road to face Air Force 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team heads to Colorado this weekend hoping to set the Notre Dame re1~ord for consec­utive wins against Air Force. followed by a Monday matchup with Denver. 
After Sunday's 14-3 victory over Stony Brook the Irish set their sites on the Falcons who have improved enough this season to warrant a high grade from Irish coach Kevin Corrigan. 
"This year's Air Force team is the best they've had in the last four years," commented Corrigan. "They are scrappy, quick and very determined. They play with a lot of. heart." 
It will take more than heart to beat the Irish, who have rolled to sixth straight behind a potent offensive attack and a stingy defense. 
Leading scorer Handy Colley, all-time Notre Dame scoring leader Mike Sullivan. and a host of others comprise a Notre Dame attaek which has outscored it's opponents 93-29 during the last six games. 
The attack is not the only reason for that margin.
The Observer/ Jake Peters 
Defensive standouts Doug Murray, Pete Senger along with 
Randy Colley, shown here against Mt. St Mary's, will try to continue his prolific scoring on the trip to Colorado where the Irish will face Air Force. see LAX/page 1 5 








